THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 239, 1933

~—s The - Dabidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated Collegiate Press

= 1933 Caationne Chi) covemact) 1944 ©

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
" legiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors
by 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are
welcome, but all communications intended for publication
must be signed. ae)

ODI. {CASA sachincsc. ciccsvcccy sc scdsscuxesunds lockup auenssues editor
W. T. JOHNSON......-. Business M

EDITORIAL STAFF

L. GULLETTE i
F. McPHAIL.. Managing Editor
E. Managing Editor
--Managing Editor
-Alumni Editor
---Sports Editor
AWLING_ PRA AS. Editorial Writer
A. HUNTE -Exchange Editor
eature Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor
--Feature Editor
seubcscstcdssucusucusiee Review Editor
Associ Editor

Associ Editor

a S Associate Editor
-A i Editor

ROSAwEO
o

2>rpasnp
n

M. THOMPSON...
CK WILLIAMS, JR

~
>

BUSINESS STAFF
stant Business
stant Business
stant Business
stant B

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1933

anager
anager

anager

THANKSGIVING
all that God in mercy sends:
health and strength, for home and friends
comfort in the time of need,
every kindly word and deed,
happy thoughts and pleasant talk,
guidance in our daily work,
all these things give thanks.

For
For
For
For
For
For
For

For
For
For
For
For
For
For

beauty in this world of ours,

verdant grass and lovely flowers,
song of birds, for hum of bees,

the refreshing summer breeze,

hill and plain, for streams and wood,
the great ocean’s mighty flood,

all these things give thanks.

For the sweet sleep that comes at night,

For the returning morning's light,

For the bright sun which shines on high,

For stars that glitter in the sky,

For these and everything we see,

O Lord, our hearts we lift to thee.

And give thee hearty thanks:

—Ellen Isabella Tupper.

LET’S DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT

Some nineteen hundred years ago James’
wrote, “Ie ve doers of the word and not hearers
only.” This is a very simple thought, but one
which would bear much reflection, particularly
by Davidson students at this time.

During the Fall Services, we men of Davidson
had an excellent opportunity of being hearers of
the word, as presented by one of the most attrac-
tive and able speakers that has ever held such
services here. We had revealed to us challeng-
ing ideals to strive for, and were shown methods
and resources for achieving this ideal.

sut Dr. Lacy has come and gone, and the Fall
Services are over. We have had this privilege
of being hearers of the word; now there devolves
upon each of us the duty of being doers. From
the standpoint of attendance and enthusiasm
shown, these services were highly successful.
3ut such criteria are of no real meaning. What
is significant is whether these meetings will
bring any lasting results as evidenced by the
lives of the men on the campus.

What is wrong with this campus is not a spirit
of agnosticism or apostasy, but an apathetic atti-
tude as regards religion: there is a feeling of
unconcern, of indifference. Thése services will
be successful if they stimulate thinking along
the lines of Christian living; if they tend to tear
down this passivity. For the majority of us are
already hearers; but how few, on the basis of
strong convictions, are doers.

There is this challenge left us from the Fall
Services: to incorporate into our living those
principals which we heard expounded, and to
which doubtless we gave mental asset. May
these services have a continued life and mean-
ing in this student body, so that their influence
will not have ended last Wednesday, or will not
end in a month or a year or even a college gen-
eration; but will continue to make itself evident
in the living of each man'who was reached by
this message.

THE SADNESS OF FAREWELL |
When “O Davidson” is sung Thursday after-
noon a sensation of profound sorrow will choke
every Senior as he realizes that a number of the |
most gallant heroes ever to don the Red and
Black. uniform—and_ his .own_ classmates—will

have fought their last grim battle for the Alma
Mater.

And especially to those heroes themselves will
the sadness be great; it means an end to the
participation in the king of college sports. Short
years have passed since they were seen as strip-
lings exhibit the fight which has distinguished
them. Today as stalwart men their strength is
mightier but the spirit is not nobler—it could
not be! TET

There are several varsity men of ’34 who, to-
morrow, will have played their last game. Laden
with honor we give them great praise. Nor
would we forget the man who, for three hard
years, strived and failed to place. They, too, are
real Wildcats. To these men who have sacri-
ficed, who have daily risked injury to win for old
Davidson, we, as Davidson men, offer hearts full
of praise and admiration.

Nor may we forget that other Seniors will to-
morrow be viewing their last grid game as a
body—that their sorrow is none the less poig-
nant, their loyalty none the less true than that
shown by their fighting classmates “on the line.”

Class of ’34, your grid day has faded in a sun-
set of glory. Others must supplement you. But
your sons have done their part. So like men you
must say to the gridiron, “Farewell!”—U. H.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION

“We plainly perceive that the mind strength-
ens and decays with the body.” In an institu-
tion that is recognized for its high scholastic
standing, it is fitting that the students should
engage in a program of physical education. With-
out such care and development our physical be-
ings deteriorate and a high type of mental pei-
formance becomes an impossibility.

Previous to the installation of the present
physical education staff, a member of the faculty
had charge of this work in addition to his reg-
ular class-room instruction. Naturally an effi-
cient organization was out of the question, but
under the skilled leadership of Captain Norton
G. Pritchett and his able assistant, Heath Whit-
tle, a remarkably fine system of physical train-
ing has been built up here.

Intra-mural sport competition, consisting of
inter-class and inter-fraternity contests in all the
major sports, is probably the most comprehen-
sive and beneficial branch of Captain Pritchett’s
program, The different classes and fraternities
participate in football, baseball, basketball, and
volley-ball games; the former also have gym-
nastic competition, tennis, golf, and boxing
matches. There is an opportunity for every stu-
dent to improve his body in some phase of this
athletic activity. In these years when our bodies
are still capable of great development and im-
provement, we are indeed foolish if we do not
take advantage of the opportunity offered. Our
bodies will decide what measure of success we
will achieve in later life.

Captain Pritchett has developed Davidson’s
track team to such an extent, that’ now it is one
of the best in the South. He has moulded many
track stars out of men who for the most part
have never had any previous experience. Whittle
who holds the Davidson College record in low
and high hurdles; Flinn, a graduate of last year,
who holds the pole vault record; Brannon, rec-
ord holder in the one and two-mile events; Mc-
Call, broad jump champion; Fleagle, also a last
year’s graduate, who sprints the 100-yard dash
in 21.6; and Cochran, who holds both weight rec-
ords and is captain of this year’s team. A rather
impressive record; All these men came to Da-
vidson with no knowledge of the talent they pos-
sessed, but due to. Captain Pritchett’s keen in-
sight and matchless training they became record-
holders.

Davidson’s cross-country team has grown from
a practically non-existent body into an organiza-
tion that this season lost only to Carolina and
tied Duke, who recently won the Southern Con-
ference meet by placing five men among the first
seven. Another startling tribute to Captain
Pritchett. He has also developed many fine
punters of the football team, a notable example
being Thad Brock.

Juniors and Seniors not participating in any
activity that will afford them sufficient exercise
are required to take three hours of such recrea-
tion as will meet the requirements. The Fresh-
man calesthentics under the R. O. T. C. Depart-
ment is another portion of the physical education
here.

This brief survey shows that Davidson has a
splendid system of athletics—a system that
works to develop not only men who have some
athletic ability, but, what is much more impor-
tant, those who really need physical improve-
ment. Captain Pritchett is a born leader in his
class room, before the student body, on the ath-
letic field, wherever he may be. His work in
physical education is a monument to his keen
interest in the betterment of the students’ bodies
so that they may better enjoy life and accomplish

“more in whatever line of endeavor they choose

to pursue here in college and in later years.
—R. P.-T.

-upper-reaches— of -air-

NEWS DIGEST

AMBASSADOR

Antonovich Trovanovsky, former
Russian ambassador to the Court of
Japan, has been chosen to be the first
Russian envoy to, the U. S., and his
appointment has Been approved by the
Federal Government. He has previous-
ly served five years in Japan as a rep-
resentative of his country there. As
soon as the news of his appointment
was made known there was a good
deal of speculation as to its bearing
on troubled Far Eastern affairs.

WELLES REPORTS

Ambassador Sumner Welles has vis-
ited President Roosevelt and after a
long discussion has been sent on to
Washington to lay the facts of the
present Cuban situation before the
State Department. The promptness
with which Welles was dispatched to
the capitol gives rise to the view that
the situation of resident American in
Cuba is extremely grave. Welles is to
return to Havana when his business
in Washington is concluded.

SPAIN

The Republic of Spain is conducting
its first federal election under the new
constitution and is having quite a time.
The election has caused a number of
deaths and injuries in frequent fights
between radicals and conservatives at
the polls. It looks as if the new gov-
ernment is not having as easy a time
as its friends anticipated.

COTTON

Forty-eight million dollars, constitut-
ing a four cents a pound advance to
all holders of government cotton, is
ready for distribution. A cotton gin-
ner’s marketing agreement has also
been drawn up and approved by the
Federal Farm Administration. The
agreement provides for maximum serv-
ice charges and a system of national
and state control. This announcement
has been made by the farm adminis-
tration and is favored by all the farm-
ers,

THE NAZI POLICY

The Nazi policy has been aptly dem-
onstrated in its treatment of one of
Germany’s greatest citizens, Dr. Ein-
stein. The property of the famous sci-
entist and his wife has been seized
and confiscated under laws “concern-
ing the seizure of Communist prop-
erty and property of enemies of the
state.” When Dr, Einstein planned to
go to the U. S. in 1932 he was asked
by the American consulate in Berlin
if he were a Communist and he re-
plied that’hesrefused to answer such
foolish questions. It is believed—that
the Nazis acted on these grounds, The
announcement of such action was
signed by the secret police.

RUSSIA

Visitors to Russia say that the coun-
try is on the road to prosperity and
wealth. To hasten the coming of such
a time is the main reason why Russia
was so eager to obtain recognition
from the United States. It felt that
such a step would benefit both parties.
The inhabitants of the steppes were
formerly illiterate, poor, and starving.
Stalin has given them education. Stalin
has given them machinery with which
to raise food and clothing. And now
the Soviet is seeking wealth through
advantageous relations of trade with
other countries.

STRATOSPHERE

The U. S. is following in the foot-
steps of several European countries
Who have previously sent up metal
balls containing humans to expore the
Our-first at-
tempt ended when Lieut. T. G. W. Set-
tle and Major C. L. Fordney’ landed
in a New Jersey swamp after travel-
ing 11 miles up. Maybe some day
we will even go beyond the 400-mile
limit of the atmosphere and keep on
up to the moon or Mars. But it will

be a long time yet before we advance

far enough for that.

BULLITT OFF

President Roosevelt has ordered Am-
bassador William C. Bullitt to leave
immediately for Russia to organize the
new embassy there and get it to func-
tioning immediately. It will be neces-
sary to provide for adequate housing
facilities and other matters of com-
fort and convenience. The new am-
bassador is to-sail for Moscow next
Wednesday.

NEW JOBS

The newly created civil works ad-
ministration has gone to work imme-
diately and in earnest. It is ready to
announce that jobs for one million men
have already been created and that
soon four million men will be trans-
ferred from the bread line to the pay-
roll. The program assigned this branch
of the administration has gone forward
satisfactorily and jobs have been ap-
portioned to the needy in all the states,

Four Marx Brothers
In Hilarious Picture

Barrymore Stars in “Christopher
Bean,” Wednesday
Wednesday, Nov.

Bean”

Bean was a well-known artist whose
pictures became very valuable after
his death. Lionel Barrymore plays the
part of the small-town doctor who in-
herited some of the paintings of the
artist and lost them, and then attempt-
ed to procure one of the paintings from
his housekeeper, Marie Dressler, by
hook or crook. The doctor went to
any length to get the painting, and
then was found. out by the house-
keeper, who turned him back to truth
and honesty, and the picture ends well.
The acting and the theme are both
good. Jean Hersholt and Helen Mack
are also in the cast.

Thursday and Friday, Nov. 30 and
Dec. 1—Duck Soup

The four Marx brothers come back
to the screen in their best and most
hilarious picture yet. They attempt
to mingle with society, and the picture
is screaming with fun at their actions.
There is no plot to speak of, but they
always manage to get along very well
without any plot and this is no ex-
ception. This one should not be
missed,

Saturday, Dec. 2—The World Changes

Paul Muni plays the part of the
small-town boy who starts at the bot-
tom of the ladder and works his way
to the top. He starts as a young man
and the picture carries him through
middle age and into old age. The
thoughts of the years are shown in
his actions, and he plays the part with
much force. Ailen MacMahon, Don-
ald Cook and Mary Astor are in the
cast.

Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 4 and 5—
Dancing Lady

This picture is entirely different from
the usual run of pictures, and shows
Joan’ Crawford in a role which suits
her very well. There are some won-
derful dancing scenes with Fred Ais-
tere, who comes to the screen in this
his first picture. May Robson, Franchot
Tone, and Ted Healy and his Stooges
are in the film, which is not lacking
in fun. It is one of the best of the
late pictures, and is very entertaining.
The life of the chorus girl who rises
to the place of the famous dancer is
portrayed very well.

DR. LACY CONCLUDES
ANNUAL ‘Y’ SERVICES

(Continued from page 1)

Wednesday morning Dr. Lacy took
up the next thing that we should con-
sider in following Christ. That is, the
cross, Christ said, “He that would
come after me, let him deny himself,
and take up his cross and follow me.”
It is all-important, if we would follow
Christ, that we should realize the se-
riousness of the cross, and all that it
stands for.

Wednesday night Dr. Lacy brought
his talks to a close with the thought
of bringing Christ to others, through
our own lives as well as by dctual car-
rying of the gospel. We can do as
much here in the college by the way
we live, and in our influence on those
who are now forming their beliefs, as
any other way, according to Dr, Lacy.

With this admonition, to show Christ
to others by the way we lived, the
speaker brought the Fall Services to
a close.

Dr. Lacy’s whole theme was taken
from the thought of Luke 2:52, “ Jesus
increased in wisdom and stature, and
in favor with God and man.”

PORTRAITS OF TWO
ALUMNI RECEIVED

(Continued from page 1)
lotte Observer” has compared his work
to that of Sir Joshua Reynolds.
A formal unveiling of the two paint-
ings will be held some time in the
future, probably during the 1934 com-

29 — Christopher |

On Other Campuses

WAKE FOREST

Professor Neville Isbell, of the chem-
istry department at Wake Forest, and
director of the band, has recently com-
posed a march song entitled “Old Gold
and Black.” Wake Forest has always
needed a good number to play on the
football field at the half, and this new
composition fits the bill perfectly. The
number will be played during the half
at the Davidson-Wake Forest conflict
in Charlotte Thursday.

FLORIDA

An in@nsive campaign has been con-
ducted by the University of Florida
alumni to ascertain the oldest living
former student of any of the six state
institutions which existed prior to the
founding of thé university in 1905, The
title of being the oldest grad went to
a member of the class of ’60 at East,
Florida Seminary.

NORTH CAROLINA

Page Abe Lincoln! Quoting the Daily
Tar Heel, “Revolution has been nar-
rowly averted in North Carolina.
Chapel Hill, cut to the quick and stung
to fury by the dry avalanche regis-
tered the other day, has finally been
persuaded to abandon its impulsive plot
to secede from the state.”

Vv. M. I.
In a recent cigarette poll made at’

NV. M. I., it was found that the most

popular cigarettes were Camels. The
results in the voting show: Camels,
167 votes; Chesterfields, 164 votes;
Luckies, 29; Old Golds, 2; Spuds, 5;
Kools, 1, and Phillip Morris, 1. There
were 157 non-smokers-on the campus.

SOUTH CAROLINA

With national prohibition sent to the
scrap heap and the prospective return
of South Carolina’s quart-a-month
system, the student at the University
of South Carolina is left out entirely.
From authoritative sources it was
learned that, in case the system prior
to prohibition is put into force, the
student will be barred from receiving
his quota, regardless of age.

JOHNS HOPKINS
Freshmen at Johns Hopkins con-
ceived the idea of rigging up a short
wave radio station to broadcast the
whereabouts of sophomores cruising
freshmen in ‘cars, the night of the
freshman banquet! It worked!

WASHINGTON AND LEE

All of the pomp and pageant of one
of the most colorful coronations in the
history of the new decadent* Russian
Empire ‘will be portrayed on the floor
of Doremus gymnasium on the night
of January 26, when the leaders of
Fancy Dress will usher in the twenty-
eighth annual Fancy Dress Ball by
depicting the Coronation of Alexander
III of Russia, The ball will be called
“The Coronation of Alexander, III.”

. . . According to the International
News Service, co-eds in Soviet Russia
are majoring in shoemaking and mi-
noring in carpet weaving so that they
may prepare themselves for careers in
the industrial world.

TEXAS

The University of Texas has recently
received a first edition of the author-
ized translation of the Bible, familiarly
known as the King James Translation,
printed in 1611. Because of its influ-
ence upon the development of the Eng-
lish language and literature, it has

come to be called “the greatest in the
world.”

mencement exercises, according to an
announcement made Monday.

In this connection, there is a move-
ment under way to procure for Da-
vidson portraits of all twelve of her
Past presidents. The first step in this
movement was recently taken when
the College Alumni Association pre-
sented to Davidson a painting of Dr.
Henry Louis Smith, tenth president of
the college. Lunsford and Smith Rich-
ardson, prominent Greensboro alumni,
were instrumental in this work.

PST

STATIONERY

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

, PROGRAMS

See BILL JOHNSON
@ 203 Watts

@ Garland Court -

Standard Printing Company

CHARLOTTE, N.C. @

Ei

