4

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1933

“Sign of the Cross”
Shown in Charlotte

The Carolina Theatre in Charlotte is pre-
senting all this week “The Sign of the
Cross,” and once again Cecil B. Demille takes
his place among the foremost producers of
all time with this new triumph. His “Ten
Commandments” and his “King of Kings”
previously set the standard for all cinema

_directors,-and—now—he_reaches_new_heights
in his “Sign of the Cross” and sets as a
standard a picture that is probably the great-
est, most intensely dramatic spectacle ever
brought before the public.

The story is of Mercia, a-Christian maiden
who is willing to die for her faith, and Mar-
cus, a Roman noble whose love for her un-
dergoes a spiritual transformation, so that
he too is willing to die—not for faith, but
for love. The story hinges around them
and the attendant circumstances, that of the
burning of ‘Rome, of Nero’s lustful court,
of Rome the magnifiéent—the extraordinary,
and of Nero’s cruel persecution of the Chris-
tians.

The camera work is par excellent with
scenes of the mad crowd at the Coliseum,
of the tortures of Roman life under Nero.

The picture does not stop here. It goes
beyond. It appeals to the mind as well as
the eyes. A startling paradox is shown of
ancient Rome and modern America. It is
a picture that provokes thought, and like the
“Ten Commandments,” like “The King of
Kings,” it teaches great moral truths, if one
is willing to learn, that are often overlooked.
It surpasses both of his former productions
in this respect. Great as are the love scenes
between Marcus and Mercia, the greatest
scene is when the Christians march up out
of the dungeon into the arena to be eaten,
clawed by lions, to give their lives for an
ideal. That is what this great picture does.
It presents an ideal, the highest type of
Christian ideals.

The honors go to Elissa Landi who reached
perhaps the greatest dramatic peak ever at-
tained by an actress in her portrayal of
Mercia. Her acting was wonderfully real
and great. Frederic March as Marcus sup-
ported her brilliantly.-The portrayal--of
Poppaia, empress of Rome, by Claudette
Colbert, and Nero by Charles Laughton
were excellent and above par.

Elissa Landi, Frederic March, Claudette
Colbert, and Charles Laughton, along with
7,500 others, make this not only the most
spectacular, the greatest dramatic picture
ever presented, but they make it a living
ideal.

U-PUSH-EMS
New Rates

at

M. P. Henderson’s
Gulf Station

Silver Screen

Wednesday, February 15—Employees’ En-
trance—( Warner)

Alice White in her comeback picture.
Warren William, always good, is aided by
Loretta. Young and Wallace Ford. It is the
story of what goes on in a big department
store, of girls’ ambitions. It is classed as
good and has a happy ending—Believe it or
not! :
Thursday, February 16—Whistlin’ in the

Dark—(M-G-M)

A new picture that should be good with
Una Merkel, Ernest Truex, Edward Arnold,
and John Miljan supplying the cast. Fun and
excitement and spooks.

Friday, February 17—Sailor Be Good—
(R. K. O.)

A typical Jack Oakie picture with the
usual cut-ups. Vivienne Osborne supplies the
feminine lead. Good if you like Oakie.

Saturday, February 18—Ride ’Em Cowboy—
A Western. The regular Saturday night
affair for the kids. Good if you like them.

Monday, February 20—Wax Museum

Lionel. Atwill, Fay Wray, Glenda Farrel
and Frank McHugh combine to make this
horror picture a real thriller. In the labora-
tory of Mad Ivan Izor, corpses are done up
in wax and cellophane in this Wax Musetm,
Fay Wray, the beautiful red-headed girl of
the movies, enters this laboratory unsus-
pectingly and then the fun begins. It is a
thriller from begining to’ end, filled with
suspense and excitement. An excellent pic-
ture.

Tuesday, February 21—Washington Merry-
Go-Round
Liberty gave this four stars. It is above
the average. Lee Tracy as a reformer goes
to Washington and stirs things up. A
thought-provoking picture, well acted. Espe-
cially good for those disliking politics.

Dr. Miller’s Invention

To Make Vision Audible

Cleveland—(IP)—“Ah, her profile sounds
lovely !”

This may be heard at future beauty con-
tests as a result of an invention exhibited
last week at Case School of Applied Science
here by Dr. Dayton C. Miller, professor of
physics and outstanding authority on sound
in this country.

The mechanical device transforms the
curves of a profile into sound waves. If the
sounds are in perfect harmony the curves
get a rating of 100 per cent. Every defect
or nicety of human features detected
by this latest and cruelest of machines,
which makes vision audible.

In his demonstration of the machine, Dr.
Miller exhibited the profile of the formerly
famous screen star, Mary Miles Minter. The
purity of the curves in her face were meas-
ured by Dr. Miller's device, and their com-
posite vibration waves resulted in a corre-
sponding purity of sound. The net result,
in fact, was a major chord perfectly at-

is

“DRUGS”

“PRESCRIPTIONS”

Make Our Store Your Store
Student Supplies

WHITE DRUG.CO., Inc. “

“SODAS”

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO

The O. D. K. pledged themselves to an
effort to bring about a renewed interest in
the literary societies at a well-attended rally
held in Phi Hall.

Mr. Kendall. Weisegar opened*thes¥. M.
‘C. A\ vocational guidance meetings with a
very informative talk on the vocations.

Davidson wrestlers won. and lost in their
two latest matches. They were nosed out in
a close match with V. M. L, but came back
strongly to defeat W. & L., 17-8.

Dr. Ben. Lacy made the second talk on
vocational guidance. Personal interviews will

be carried out with many leading men to

be brought to the campus. 2
W. E. Gardener, president of the student
body of Union Seminary, spoke at the Y. M.

C. A. vespers.

Plans were being made for the annual
Sophomore banquet in Charlotte.

Dr. C. K. Brown addressed the Interna-

tional Relations Club, discussing the topic,
“Rubber as an Industry.”

Davidson basketeers lost to Citadel, but
defeated the College of Charleston, 57-29.

An interesting item noted was that the
withdrawal list after the first semester was
the smallest on record, Only seventeen men
left college.

TEN YEARS AGO

The troupe of Wildcat Minstrels, under
the able guidance of Dr. C. J. Erwin, re-
turned to the campus after a very. success-
ful tour through the Carolinas.

Joy reigned on the campus after the Wild-
cat basketball team defeated the Baptists
from Wake Forest, 27-17. It was a thrilling
game and the victory avenged last week's
29-24 upset.

Rev.. Mack Long of* Statesville led a very
inspiring Y vesper service.

The literary societies are going ahead with
their plans for Literary Society Night dur-
ing commencement,

Flake “Red” Laird is proving to be one of
the vital cogs in this season's edition of
Wildcat _basketeers. we

Davidson College Magazine makes its ap-
pearance,

W. J. Martin, president of the college, has
just returned from a flying trip te New
York on college business.

Davidson: wrestlers leave on trip that in-
cludes matches with Trinity (now Duke) and
Carolina.

tuned; or, to put it in another way, sound-
ing the perfect’ mathematical relationships
of the overtone series.

Not only were photographs decomposed
into sound, so to speak, but sounds of va-
rious instruments were synthesized into pho-
tographs, Tones of a French horn, for in-
stance, produced a rugged masculine pro-
file.

Other instruments gave varying degrees
of regularity or angularity of design when
projected on the screen.

The apparatus that performs these mir-
acles is called a phonodeik. It is Dr. Miller’s
own invention and he has been developing
and perfecting it for the last ten years, giv-
ing demonstrations before scientific societies
in this country and abroad.

It has been of valuable service in study-
ing and cofrecting defects in musical in-
struments, microphones, loud speakers and
many sorts of reproducing devices.

The Bookshelf

A Small Boy’s Recollections of the Civil
War—George F. Robertson. Standard
Printing Company.

As each year diminishes the number of
people who were actual witnesses to the
Civil War, descriptions of those stirring days
are most interesting. George F. Robertson,
who was a member of the class of 1878 at
Davidson College, has written his recollec-
tions of the Civil War and presents them
in entertaining fashion.

Mr. Robertson was, born in 1853 on a farm
near Greeneville, Tennessee, and as a boy
witnessed much Civil War activity. His fa-
ther_was a _newspaper editor and published
in several towns in the South. From the
viewpoint of an alert boy he saw the events
which he narrates in an informal and good-
natured manner. The story is told from mem-
ory of actual happenings. He tells how the
Confederate proclamation. for volunteers
brought men to the stars and bars, the first
flag of the Confederate States. He points
out that the first soldier to fall in battle
during the Civil War was a soldier from
North Carolina. Long train loads of soldiers
passed through Greeneville on the way to
the Virginia battlefields, sleeping on beds
made from straw thrown on the floors of
the box cars,

In every town there were Northern sym-
pathizers and some of these were bold
enough to do violence to the Southern force
by burning bridges and by other deeds.

The small boys of the time had exciting
experiences. They would walk out tothe
camps so they could water the horses of
cavalry companies. Both sides were guilty
of foraging, an unavoidable result of the
war. The author narrates an incident where
some soldiers took cooking vessels from the
kitchen of his mother and how he, a young
boy, received permission from the Command-
ant to go about the tents in search of his
family’s property. Sometimes old muskets
were left behind by the soldiers and these
fascinated the boys as guns always interest
the young boy.

Once while his family was living in Wythe-
ville, Virginia, the townspeople were horri-
fied to see a blue streak moving along the
road that led into the town. Fearing a
Northern raid, the town was in bedlam. But
the troops proved to be Confederate soldiers
who had raided the Yankee comissary stores,
and-needing the captured coats, proceeded
to wear them.

Robertson was with a small wagon train
that crossed the mountains from
Wytheville to Asheville. The men ‘loaded
their wagons’ with salt which they offered
to the mountain folk or “bush-wackers.” It
was in autumn and the young boy ate apples
and chinquapins to his heart’s content,

over

“I saw three great movings of humanity
during the war and immediately at its close.
Burnside’s army on the march, Longstreet’s
grand army review and the negro hegira
immediately after their realization of the
fact they were free. I'll never forget that
sight.”

At Asheville the author went to a private
school of Colonel Stephen Lee, and some
years later to Captain Banks at Newton
Academy where he was prepared for Da-
vidson College.

The schools, colleges and universities of
China rapidly are placing enforced military
training in their curriculums.

“SUNDRIES”

THE GREATEST
UNDERWEAR VALUE

‘You can pay more than HANES

Just try to match HANES values.

There’s the Gold Label Light Weight Union Suit or Shirts and
Drawers. SAMSONBACK Athletic Union
belt. That’s patented and can’t be
Shorts in a variety that will make

to choose from. All
can be done.

MMM

We

MMMHHCH@MM@llllll

costs—but you can’t get more.

YU
WY

Yy

S

Suits with the tug-of-war
imitated. Pull-Over Shirts and
it easy for the most fastidious

at prices that will make you wonder how it

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.

foreign territory.

~ STUDENTS’ CRUISES

Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew man-
agers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers
of leading publishers. Can be worked there now. Permanent posi-
tions if experienced, also summer crews for United States and

FOR FULL-DETAILS WRITE

The Collegiate Scholarship Institute

219 Republic Building, Miami, Florida

Cincinnati Scientists
Unearth Ancient City

Cincinnati—(1P)—Excavations will go on
again at the site of ancient Troy next sum-
mer in an effort to trace the birthplace of
modern civilization.

The work will be directed by archeologists
of the University of Cincinnati, headed by
Dr. William T. Semple. This time, their in-
terest aroused, European institutions will

take—part.—

m Digging beneath a broiling sun last year,
the Cincinnati expedition revealed that nine
cities had stood~successively-upon~the~site
of Troy, five of them before the city of
which Homer sang and three more after
the days of Helen, Achilles, Paris and
Ulysses.

It also unearthed a theater built in the
days of Rome, when the eighth city was
in flower, a theater that could accommodate
5,000 people.

Yet, when the Cincinnati archeologists
started work, the site of ancient Troy was
a wilderness, the home of snakes, tarantulas,
storks and wild hogs which harried the
explorers. For 33 years no effort had been
made to unearth the secrets of the ancients
buried there.

They dug there because Troy in the days
of ancient Greece controlled one of the
greatest trade routes of the old world, from
the civilizationg of the Far East—to those
of the rising Near East and West. Exca-
vations there, they believed, would settle
whether the hordes that peopled Europe in-
vaded from the north or rushed up through
Persia.

Already Dr. Carl W. Blegen, professor of
classical archeology at the University of Cin-
cinnati, has started for the scene after re-
ceiving the Turkish government’s permis-
sion to continue the work. Later Dr. Semple
will go, taking five assistants.

Operations at the site are to be resumed
April 1 and continue to July 1. Extreme heat
of the desert summer makes it impossible
to continue excavations beyond that date.

Intercollegiate Press

Chicago—(IP)—Joanna Xenos, 8, has been
graduated from the Chicago elementary
schools with a fair knowledge of Babylonian
history and a smattering of chemistry, to
say nothing of a pretty complete knowledge
of everything most high school. seniors
know.

After completing eight years of regular
school in two years, the little girl is now
ready for high school with school authori-
ties debating what to do about it. They
think she is too young to mix with high
school students.

For the time being she is helping teach
other grammar school students. Aside from
studying, Joanna likes best to visit the zoo
and to play jacks.

Miami, Fla—(IP)—Federal immigration
authorities are wondering what to do about
fifteen Cuban university students who fled
political persecution in Cuba by coming here
in a 40-foot boat in four days at sea.

nce on the way over, the youths said,
they thought their boat was going to sink,
and all fifteen dived overboard. When they
saw they were mistaken, they climbed back
in, and continued to the United States.

New York—(IP)—College scientists and
laboratory workers were urged to make it.
a practice of giving out their discoveries to
the public, in an address before the Ameri-
can College Publicity Association by Walde-
mar Kaempffert, science editor of the New
York Times.

Too often, he said, important scientific
discoveries and theories remain hidden for
years because the newspapers never hear
about them. A case in point, he said, was the
publicizing of the Einstein theory in 1919,
which was fifteen years after it had first
been advanced.

The essence of good and evil is a certain
disposition of the will—Epictetus.

Be silent and safe—silence never betrays
you.—John B. O'Reilly,

One should never put on one’s best trousers
to go out into fight for freedom.—lIbsen.

ONVENIENT
LOSE
ANITARY
HEAP

When in Need of a

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Haircut
USE YOUR HEAD
and Go to Norton’s

High Class Work at Economical Prices

MARTIN BROS.’
SHOE SHOP

Johnson’s Barber Shop

“Four Out of Five College Men
Come Here”

