THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1933

—

DUKE GOLFERS BAG
STATE CROWN AS
*CATS PLACE THIRD

THE SPORTS PARADE

WILDCAT DIAMOND
ORGANIZATION TAKES
LEAD IN STATE RACE

FIRING AT RANDOM

CASKIE NORVELL, Jr.

Jimmy Halverstadt brought honor
upon Davidson last week when he was
runner-up for the tennis champ hip
of the Big Five. Jimmy only fell be-
fore the excellent stroking of Wilmer
Hines, Carolina, former national junior
champion. He also paired with Captain
Charlie Myers to take runner-up honors
in the doubles, giving Davidson second
place as a team.

Wilmer Hines deserves everyone’s con-
gratulations on his championship. He has
secured it in his third attempt, having been
stopped for two straight years by his former
teammate, the illustrious Bryan “Bitsy”
Grant, number 13 in the national ranking.
Hines graduates this June, and Halverstadt
has one more year in which to try for the
net crown.

Alan Smith shot splendid golf over a
rain-soaked terrain to bag the state
championship. Despite his great golf,
Smith’s team was forced to be content
with second place, as a strong contingent
of Duke linksmen, playing their home
course, bagged the team championship.
Davidson, led by Jack Wagner's two 79’s,
took third.

The track team crashed through again.
Wake Forest was completely swamped un-
der a mob of fast times, and good distances.
The freshman team, too, continued their un-
broken string of victories, and stand on the
same footing with the varsity, with three
wins to no defeats.

Miller Cochran, a junior, crashed the
limelight, when he heaved the sixteen-
pound iron ball 44 feet, 3 inches to break
the Davidson College record in this
event. He also took firsts in the discus
and javelin throws to lead the scorers.

Charlie Little came hore with the sliced
pork by. taking a neat first in the two-mile
run. This is Charlie’s first year on the
team, and is a fine example of what a man
can accomplish if he'll just put out. Mc-
Fadyen and Woodside finished secend and
third in ‘this event, to give the ’Cats a clean
sweep.

Ras Evans and Earle Frazier took
their customary firsts inj the freshman
division. Ras got wins in both dashes,
and Frazier was first in the mile and
the 440. Pitman pole vaulted eleven
feet to take first place in that event.

The Florida-Davidson meet was called off
due to the disinclination of Jupiter Pluvius,
and from all reports, the ’Gators were plenty
glad they didn’t have to encounter this fast
running aggregation from Davidson.

The baseball team is at the top of the
column in the standings of the Big Five
with two victories against no defeats.
The two victories are 4 to 3 wins over
Carolina, gained in a brace of holiday
games,

Davidson's lead will be risked this week
in games with Carolina and N. C. State, both
on foreign soil. We don’t like to pick ’em
wrong, and we feel sure we aren’t, when
we say we expect the ’Cats to bag the pair
of them, even though they will get a couple
of sweet scraps.

Jenkins, freshman southpaw, joined the

ranks of the near great when he shut

out Belmont Abbey, with two bingles,

winning 2 to 0.

Duke is taking a commanding lead in
Southern track circles, and when Davidson’s
undefeated track team meets those Blue
Devils, it will be one whale of a good meet.
I’m just waiting to see that hundred and
220 between Fleagle and Brownlee.

A game that would have had a decid-
ed bearing on the Big Five race, one
between Davidson and Wake Forest,
scheduled for last Friday afternoon on
the local diamond, was called off on ac-
count of cold weather. The Deacons
are undefeated in the lane encounter
they have had, which was a 12 to 1 mas-
sacreing of N. C. State’s Wolfpack nine.

The proposed track meet between Da-
vidson’s fresh and the lads from P. C. should
be a fine exhibition. The South Carolina
boys came up here last year, and gave Da-

Davidson Scores Over D

Duke Wins Golf Crown
In State Meet; Alan
Smith Individual Star

Carolina Finishes Second in Keen Com-
petition as Davidson and State
Trail Leaders

A well-balanced contingent of golfers, rep-
resenting Duke University, captured the
state intercollegiate golf crown in a match
played over the sporty terrain of the Hope
Valley Country Club, Durham, last Friday.
The Blue Devil aggregation finished the
thirty-six-hole grind with a team score of
631. The University of North Carolina
scored 638 to come in second. The Wildcats
of Davidson College were but four points
back of the Tar Heels, having 642,. which
gave them third place. N. C. State’s Red
Terrors trailed badly, finishing up in ‘the
fourth position with 673.

Alan Smith of the University of North
Carolina, Biltmore Forest champion, took
off individual honors in the meet by coup-
ling a 77 with a 72 to have a total of 149
for the thirty-six holes. Bayard Storm, sen-
sational Duke sophomore, finished but a
stroke behind the leader with a total of 150,
gained by two sparkling 75 rounds.

Roger Peacock, Duke number one, and
1932 champion, finished at 152 for a total
Fred Newnham, Jr., N. C. State’s ace, scored
a pair of 78’s to lead his team in the scor-
ing with a total of 156. ‘Jack Wagner, Da-
vidson star, and runner-up for the Bilt-
more Forest title, turned in a brace of 79's
to be low man for Davidson. A, poor 86 in
the morning round kept Davidson’s Captain
Caldwell out of the running, as he turned in
a splendid 76 in the afternoon.

Summary:

Duke: Storm, 75-75—150; Peacock, 76-76—

152; Caldwell, 81-82—163; Sullivan, 85-81—
166. Team: 631,
North Carolina: Smith, 72-77—149; Lax-

ton, 75-78—153; Cramer, 79-83—162; Mich-
aels, 85-83—168. Team: 638.

Davidson: Wagner, 79-79—158; Caldwell,
86-76—162; Manson, 82-84—166; Thompson,
83-86—169... Team: 642.

N. C. State: Newnham, 78-78—156; Pas-
tore, 84-81—165; Styron, 87-88—175; Rion,
89-88—177. Team: 673,

Davidson Golf Team
Has’ Three Matches

Dropping two matches while bagging one,
Davidson's golf team continued its north-
ern trip this week. Furman was defeated
before spring holidays, and the ’Cats have

\’since then dropped matches to both Duke

and North Carolina.

Davidson defeated Furman in Charlotte,
April 12, 14 to 4. Johnny Thompson was low
man with a 75.

McGee, Furman number one, shot a neat
77 to win from Jack Wagner, who slipped
badly, and turned in a poor 80.

In a preliminary to the state tournament
the Duke linksmen bumped the Wildcats,
10% to 7%, over the rain-soaked Hope Val-
ley club terrain. Wagner of Davidson took
two points from Peacock, 1932 state inter-
collegiate champion.

Captain Caldwell defeated Storm of Duke,
but Caldwell and Sullivan took all possible
points for Duke*in matches with Manson
and Thompson, thereby gaining enough
points to win the match.

On the day after the state championship,
Carolina waxed warm to completely rout
the ’Cats, handing them a 17% to % wal-
loping. Caldwell managed to halve a side
with Laxton and gain Davidson’s half a
point.

Coffin, Tar Heel number four man, turned
in a neat 71 to lead the scorers for the day.
All four Carolina players shot 75 or better.

vidson’s neophytes a terrific shellacking. An
undefeated Wildkitten aggregation is going
up against a hard foe, and the editor re-
grets that he does not choose to make a pre-
diction for publication at this time as to
the outcome of the meet, but it will truly
be close.

Carolina continues their string af
Southern Conference baseball victories,
and the ’Cats hold two wins over the
Tar Heels. What does that make us? To
me it looks like we're leading anything
in the Conference.

Davidson Leading

in Big

Five Baseball Standing

Davidson Team Hits Well to Defeat) 5
Elon, Catawba, North Carolina, and
Charlotte, Bringing Total Num-
ber of Wins to Nine

With their final win over Elon, April 18,
Davidson College’s Wildcat nine made it
nine wins out of ten starts. The lone de-
feat was an 8 to 0 lacing given them by the
Charlotte Hornets of the Piedmont League.
This defeat did not affect Davidson’s stand-
ing in collegiate baseball circles. The ’Cats
split a two-game series with the Hornets,
winning the first encounter, 5 to 1,

The holiday campaign brought two vic-
teries over both North Carolina and Elon,
and one over Catawba. This places David-
son in the lead for the Big Five champion-
ship.

Davidson 12; Catawba 7

In a game played on the Indians’ grounds,
Davidson again defeated Catawba. This time
the score was 12 to 7. The contest was
played April 10. Charlie Pearce was on the
hill for the ’Cats.

Davidson scored six times in the eighth
stanza to overcome Catawba’s lead, and

‘| thereby pull the game out of the fire. Pearce

allowed eleven safeties, but went the route.
The Wildcat sluggers,-biimped “Vaniewsky
for fifteen base blows, and he, too, remained
on the hillock throughout the fray.

Score by innings: RH E
Davidson —.-----.-- 210 021 060—12 15. 5
Catawba =---..---- 100 042 000—7 11 4

Pearce and Whitley; Vaniewsky and
Cesareo. ah ¢

Elon 2; Davidson 7

Davidson made eleven hits count for seven
runs to bump the Elon “giant-killers” 7 to 2,
on Richardson Field, April 12. Charlie Har-
ris, sophomore right-hander, turned the]'
Christians. back with seven scattered bingles.

Extra base hits featured the game, with
Mills and Morris. hitting homers for David-
son, and Clark of Elon getting a four-bag-
ger. The ’Cat sluggers touched the offer-
ings of Newsome for eleven safeties, and
scored four runs in the cighth inning,

Score by innings: R HE
Elon (fe
Davidson 3

Newsome and Chandlét; Harris and Whit-
ley.

Davidson 5; Charlotte Hornets 1

In the first of a two-game series with the
idee Se Hornets of the Piedmont League,
the Wildcats played afrtight ball to send the
pros down, 5 to 1, in a game played on
Robbies Field, Charlotte.

Portsider George Baily was on the mound
for Davidson, and limited the Hornets to two
hits, while his mates were garnering nine.
The game was featured by the sparkling
play of Buck Mills at shortstop, who handled
eleven chances with remarkable skill.

Score by innings:
Davidson
Hornets 2

Baily and Whitley; Lyle and Martin, Bell.

zi North Carolina 3; Davidson 4

In the initial game of a holiday series Da-
vidson College handed the University of
North Carolina Tar Heelnine a 4 to 3 de-
feat in Winston-Salem, April 15.

Charlie Pearce, chunky southpaw, was
touched for eight bingles by the Tar Heel
batters, but he kept them well scattered,
and the ’Cats bunched their four hits in
the second and seventh innings to come out
on top. Bumgarner, Davidson second base-
man, collected two for three to lead the hit-
ters.

Score by innings: RH E
North Carolina ----- 000 210 000-3 8 2
Davidsonmeasccasse 3 030 000 10x—4 4 1

Griffith and McCaskill; Pearce and Whit-
ley.

North Carolina 3; Davidson 4

In .the annual Easter Monday diamond
classic, Davidson again administered a 4 to
3 defeat to Carolina. This time' the game
was played in Concord, and a large holiday
crowd was on hand.

Charlie Harris and Shrimp Morris played
the leading roles in Davidson’s victory. Har-
ris limited the "Heels to seven bingles, and
brought in two runs by ‘hitting in the
pinches. Morris, lanky first sacker, also drove
in two runs.

R H E)-

Score by innings:
North Carolina
Davidson

Andrews and McCaskill; Harris ‘and Whit-
ley.

H E
Ve
6 0

Davidson 0; Charlotte Hornets 8

In the second game of the series the Hor-
nets retaliated and jumped all over the col-
legians, and blanked them 8 to 0.

Julian West allowed the league team but
cight hits, but poor support largely caused
his downfall, as the Davidson team made six
miscues behind him. The 'Cat sluggers were
held well in check, being able to amass but
four safeties during the game.

Score by innings: RH E
Davidson) avecseacn 000 000 000O—0 4 6
Hornets): ococcecccuee 102 011 210-8 8 O

West and Whitley.

Davidson 12; Elon 2
Closing their state totr in Burlington, the
Wildcat baseball team soundly spanked the
Elon diamondmen, 12 to 2, April 18.
George Baily, in rare form, held the Chris-
tians completely at bay until the ninth, when
two runs crossed the plate. He allowed but
eleven safeties during the game.

Score by innings: R H E
Davidson -------- .-320 021 400—12 18 2
lon ose lee sees eee 000 000 002—2 7 5

Baily and Whitley; Briggs, Newsome and
Chandler, Tadley.

Four Games Played

In Inter-Class Ball

Inter-class- baseball has been going on for

good many “set-ups” and then again some
‘upsets’ also. In the first game, the Seniors
played the Freshmen in which the Fresh-
men came out on top with a 13 to 9 victory.
Next the Juniors met.the Sophomores, and
this resulted in a 13 to 10 score for the Jun;
iors. The Seniors were beaten by the Soph-
omores in their second game, by a score of
13 to 6. The Juniors won their second game
by trouncing the Freshmen 12 to 6, All of
these games were played in the first flight.

In the second round the Freshmen meet
the Juniors, and the Seniors also meet the
Juniors. The winners of these ‘two games
will advance to the finals.

’Kitten Tennis Team
Wins From Winston

A Wildkitten net aggregation rose up last
Friday afternoon and blanked the Winston-
Salem High racqueteers 9 to 0 in a match
played on the local courts.

‘Lewis, at number one for the Davidson
Freshmen, played splendid tennis to decis-
ively trounce Hutchins, 6-0, 6-1.

Singles: Lewis (Davidson) defeated Hutch-
ins (Winston), 6-0, 6-1; Barnett (Davidson)
defeated Cranford (Winston), 6-3, 6-3; Bow-
man (Davidson) defeated Sneed (Winston),
6-2, 6-4; Bell (Davidson) defeated Walters
(Winston), 6-2, 6-4; Hassell (Davidson) de-
feated Copeland (Winston), 6-2, 6-3; Gold
(Davidson) defeated Houck (Winston), 6-1,
6-3.

Doubles: Lewis-Bell defeated Hutchins-
Cranford} 6-3, 6-1; Barnett-Bowman defeat-
ed Sneed-Cranford, 6-2, 6-4; Gold-Hassell
defeated Walters-Houck, 7-5, 6-2.

My Greatest Thrill

AS TOLD BY GENE CANNON

My most thrilling experience came in the
Carolina game at Chapel Hill last year. Sit-
ting on the bench is no thrill as anyone who
has done so will state. This had been the
position from which I had seen most of the

J}games, and you can imagine how I felt to

get in this of all games. Bud Raker, who
was captain of the team, was unfortunately
injured in the game and when Coach Young-
er told me to go in I believe I had the
greatest thrill of my football experience.

Gene Cannon, who is a senior, lives in
Roanoke Rapids, N. C. He made his nu-
merals in track, and his “D” ‘in track his
junior year. He also made his letter in foot-
ball this year,

a few weeks now, and there have been 2

eacons

’Cats and ’Kittens Win
From Wake Forest by

Fairly Large Scores

Cochran Breaks School Record by
Heaving Shot Forty-four Feet,
‘ Three Inches

IS THIRD WIN OF SEASON

Eleven Out of Fourteen First Places
Taken by Varsity

Davidson. varsity and freshman track
teams both kept their records clean last
Saturday when they defeated Wake Forest
representatives in a double meet ‘here. The
varsity came out on the big end of a score
of 98% to 27% and the freshmen won over
the Wake frosh, 81 to 41.

The victories were the third of the year
for both the freshman and the varsity
squads, while neither has suffered a defeat
thus far. Both teams took firsts in eleven
of the fourteen events to pile up command-
ing leads. The varsity took all the scoring
places in the century, the two-mile run, the
javelin, and the broad jump.

Miller Cochran, Davidson weight man, was
high point man of the varsity meet with 15
points, gathered by firsts in the shotput,
discus, and javelin throws, Evans and Fra-
zier led the freshman scoring with 10 points
each, A new record was set by Cochran in
the shotput when he heaved the 16-pound
weigt 44 feet, 3 inches.

Varsity summaries:

100-yard-dash: Fleagle (Davidson) first;
A. Little (Davidson) second; McCallie (Da-
vidson) third. Time 9.9,

Mile run: Fuller (Wake
Howard (Davidson) second;
vidson) third. Time: 4:41)
Fleagle (Davidson) first;
Hayes (Wake

Forest) first;
Morrow (Da-

220-yard dash’:
McCallie (Davidson) second;
Forest) third. Time: 22.1.

Shotput: Cochran (Davidson) first; Pot-
ter (Davidson) second; Hasty (Wake For-
est) third. Distance: 44 feet, 3 inches.

Pole vault: Johnson (Wake Forest) first;
Flinn (Davidson) second; Harrill (Wake
Forest) and Lee (Davidson) tied for third.
Height: 11 feet.

120-yard high hurdles: Pratt (Davidson)
first; McPhail (Davidson) second; Cannady
(Wake Forest) third. Time: 15.8,

440-yard run: Glasgow (Davidson) ‘first;
Russcll (Wake Forest) second; Grant (Da-
vidson) third. Time: 54.5.

Two-mile run: C. Little (Davidson) first;
McFadyen (Davidson) second; Woodside
(Davidson) third. Time: 10:43. een

Discus throw: Cochran (Davidson) first;
Hasty (Wake Forest) second; Dill (David-
son) third. Distance: 117 feet.

High jump: Rhyne (Davidson) first; Coble
(Davidson) and Johnson (Wake Forest) tied
for second. Height: 5 feet, 8 inches,

220-yard low hurdles: A. Little (Davidson)
first; McCallie (Davidson) second; Russell
(Wake Forest) third. Time: 26.1.

880-yard run: Fuller (Wake Forest) first;
Cannon (Davidson) second; Gwynn (David-
son) third, Time: 2:5.2,

Javelin throw: Cochran (Davidson) first;
Dickerson (Davidson) second; Bettis (Da-
vidson) third. Distance: 159 feet, 8 inches.

Broad jump: Dickerson (Davidson) first;
Flinn (Davidson) second; Armstead (David-
son) third. Distance: 21 feet, 7 inches.

Freshman summaries:

100-yard dash: Evans (Davidson) first;
Faison (Davidson) second; Stroup (Wake
Forest) third. Time: 10 flat.

Mile run: Frazier (Davidson) first;

Weatherman (Wake Forest) second; Drake
(Wake Forest) third. Time: 4:41.4.
220-yard dash: Evans (Davdison) first;
Faison (Davidson) second; Stroup (Wake
Forest) third. Time: 22.9, ;

Pole vault: Pittman (Davidson) first; Os-
borne (Wake Forest) and Dolan (Davidson)
tied for second. Height: 11 feet.

Shotput:. Windham (Davidson) first; Tip-
ton (Davidson) second; Strain (Wake For-
est) third. ‘Distance: 42 feet, 1-4 inch.

120-yard high hurdles: Cathey (Davidson)
first; Parker (Davidson) second; Peacock
(Wake Forest) third. Time: 16.6.

440-yard run: Frazier (Davidson) first;
Fraley (Davidson) second; Powell (Wake
Forest) third. Time: 54.8.

Discus throw: Wells (Davidson) first;
Stroup (Wake Forest) second; Tipton (Da-
vidson) third. Distance: 106 feet.

High jump: Lee (Davidson) first; Mc-
(Continued on page 6)

