THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 1, 1933

The BDabidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS. OF 1915

Member of

Associated Collegiute Press

== 1933 1944 =

(warroman =, [covenact)

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

T
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: $2.00 the Col-

legiate year.

Ten cents per copy;

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of wt LG) 7 Editors
1

by 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the tor are
welcome, but all communications intended for publication
must be signed.
ODI. CASA Dleiaes assis Cre ce fies ce abes capensis sbeneacee Otter,
WaT JOHNSON cases ceccc ses aa uae ae ieee. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Managing Editor

L. GULLETTE
Managing Editor

F, yet AIL.

ha
Ror

“Sports Editor
Editorial Writer
.-Exchange Editor
.-Feature Editor
--Feature Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor

SePruommoszosmmmo

W. LU Review Editor
W. CLARDY Associate Editor
F. SCHENCK.
W. M. Ha Ao
JACK WIL
BUSINESS STAFF
G. L EE Assistant Business Manager
WwW. _L. ae. sistant Business Manager
. R. TAYLO sistant Business Manager
}: A. C. WADSV sistant Business Manager
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1933

Men and nations c&it-only be reformed in their
youth; they become incorrigible as they grow old.
—Rousseau.

OVER-CROWDED PROFESSIONS

According to the American Bar Association,
9,500 new lawyers are admitted to the bar each
year in this country, and yet only half that num-
ber are needed to maintain the 1930 census ratio.
This was 191 lawyers to every 100,000 popula-
tion. There were enough lawyers in 1930, yet
every day twice the number needed are admitted
to the bar.

Dean Pound, of the Harvard Law School, de-
clares that one of the economic wastes in this
country comes from ill-trained lawyers, and
those lacking professional spirit, who crowd the
lower ranks of the bar and assume the time and
energy of the courts.

The over-crowded profession has become one
of the tragedies of American life. Young men
laboriously fit themselves for certain work. Com-
ing out of school, they find the fields in which
they would like to work, and for which they are
prepared in some manner, over-crowded. There
is no place for them. The result often is com-
plete breakdown in both morals and courage.

It seems a g.eat many boys, who might be-
come. good artisans, are spoiled by being made
into poor lawyers, poor doctors, and probably
poor preachers.—W. O. N.

“NOW THAT I AM A MAN...”

Since the dawn of history man has endeavored
to decorate his surroundings and ornament his

body with colors, carvings, and other furnish-
ings which have advanced from rough-hewn
stone figures and simple clay daubings tothe

highly complex dress of our bodies and the in-
tricate designs of the interiors and exteriors of
the architectural structures that exist today. As
the centuries passed each leit its contribution to
the sum of human happiness and culture. Of
course, there were certain periods which added
nothing and some which actually lowered the
standard set by previous ages.

We, of the Machine Age, egotistically believe
that the present civilization exceeds that of any
past race or’epoch. We, of Davidson College,

feel with great complacence that we belong to |

that select intellectual group of rapidly matur-
ing individuals who favor this sphere with our
presence. Both these suppositions are rudely
shattered when we discover the campus be-
decked with such inappropriate and vulgar em-
bellishments as was the case several times last
~ week.

No one objects to having college boys show
their exuberance at being alive. Some biological
function is probably served by this letting off of
animal spirits. There is, however, a limit, and
the strewing of paper over trees and lawn in the
most conspicuous places both as regards location
and the time of week when perpetrated-is-cer-
tainly far distant from the zone of normal human
conduct. We do not think that any Davidson
students have such preverted esthetic senses as
to gain any satisfaction from this spectacle. It
is certainly not an edifying sight; it possesses
no elements of humor; it cannot be said that it
is an inherited instinct. Rack our brains though
we may, we can find absolutely ‘no reason for
this pastime. It is crude, distasteful, and a re-

Mlection upon us who call ourselves college men.

There are certain unfortunate individuals re-
siding in the dormitories who seem to be unable
to suppress their animal instincts and are forced
to give vent to these impulses by shriekings and
wailings that run the gauntlet from the imitation
of a fire siren to the baying of a lone wolf. It
is only at night that these students practice their
weird moanings. We heartily nominate all such
offenders for oblivion. If they can be discovered
in their lairs by some would-be student while

-indulging in their nocturnal diversion oblivion

would be undoubtedly fortheeming. Considera-
tion for others is a virtue that they would do
well to cultivate,

Music is one of the gentlest and most respected
of the arts. It boasts of legions of devotees.
We realize that practice makes perfect and that
only through constant effort can perfection be
attained. There are, however, some ambitious
souls who monopolize practically all of the after-
noon in a constant endeavor to: master some
tune. The afternoon is just as much a time for
study and rest for many as the night is for
others. Any concentration is entirely impossible
when some melody with which you are very well
acquainted is mutilated in an attempt to master
it. The music starts and then suddenly in the
middle of a measure there is a low squeak or a
loud squawk and the ardent musician, not to be
denied, begins anew. This process is repeated
until the listener (because he cannot help him-
self) is on the verge of nervous prostration. We
wonder if mutes could not find a wider vogue.
The full volume of practice notés is extremely
wearing on one’s nerves and patience.

SuperfluouS decorations, wailings, and loud, in-
considerate music practice—the elimination of
these will make Davidson College a much better,
cleaner, and more comfortable place to work and
study. —R. P. T.

HARVARD DROPS TRADITION

Law and tradition continue to fall before the
modern spirit of experiment. This is true even
at conservative, tradition-bound Harvard Uni-
versity. When the college was founded, morn-
ing chapel was made compulsory and the chapel
hells rang each day at seven. This continued for
two centuries, In 1886 compulsory chapel at-
tendance was abolished in response to student
protest, but the seven o’cloct? bells continued,
waking, it is believed, a few of the light sleepers.
At last, however, President Conant, a liberal, has
ruthlessly overridden tradition. The bells will not
be silenced, nothing so drastic as that, but here-
after they will ring at 8:40 a. m. The shorter
work day will be tried regardless of habit and
tradition.

Whether under this new arrangement more
men will be taken into Harvard has not been
revealed. In view of the various plans to spread
the work, this would seem inevitable. However,
the scheme may be in line merely with our ef-
forts to. cut down production, The experts pos-
sibly have determined that an hour and forty
minutes of wakefulness at Harvard is equivalent
to a certain fraction of a pig or row of cotton.

In any case tradition has been swept aside and
Harvard has embarked upon a radically new ex-
periment.—Welch Daily News.

TO YOUR COLORS
(From “The Prison News”
Wake up, ye rooters! Chant your college yell!
Shrill whistles toot for kick-off: games begin!
The lure of football briskly casts its spell:

_Each Alma Mater backs eleven men.

The classroom hound must learn to run an end:
The campus-poser strive to buck the line.

Gay banners wave: the fair-ones will attend
And every mother’s son must “Rise and Shine.”

The question now arises: “Which will win?”
As sturdy youths, indeed, compose each team.
With gridiron sleek: determination grim

And each staid guard impassable, ’twould’ seem.
With keenest eye each coach selects. each soul,

_ Who, steadfast, his position must defend—
And whisk the pig-skin closer to the goal—

And carry on unto the journey’s end.

Wake Forest, North Carolina, Duke and State—

And Davidson, a mighty five, indeed,

With each fanr#d unit pondering its fate—

While coaches sweat for tactfulness and speed,

“Oh! Gods of Chance, be with us,”-each implores,

And faithful ones in cheering chorus scream—

Until the season’s end with final scores:

Then all root for the winning “Tar eae team.
No. 27,868.

The Tulane Glee Club staged an informal foot-
ball game in Guatemala on a tour and now the
natives, who have gone “griddy” have hired Bill
Penny of Tulane to coach a team there.

The department of bacteriology of Akron Uni-
versity paid students $1,600 for blood transfu-
sions last year.

Ninety-five ‘students. of which five are girls are
enrolled in the embalming course at the Univer-
sity of Minnesota at Minneapolis.

NEWS DIGEST

NAZI CHIEF SOUGHT

Heinz Spanknoebel, reputed to be
the Nazi chief in the U. S., was being
sought in New York under a warrant
which charged him as falsely repre-
senting himself to be a German diplo-
The warrant was sworn
out personally by U. S. Attorney
George Medalie. Spanknoebel has no
diplomatic or consular status but has
falsely purported thus,

matic agent.

FORD GIVEN ULTIMATUM

President Roosevelt and. his aides
have flung the ultimatum to Henry
Ford. Ford must give up his financial
figures or immediate action will be
taken by the government. This action
is to obtain affirmative compliance with
the automobile code which Ford has
refused to sign. The billionaire auto
magnate may face prosecution unless
he furnishes information about his
plant.

INSULL VERDICT

The extradition charges against
Samuel Insull, former Chicago utilities
magnate, now in hiding at Athens,
Greece, came to an end Saturday be-
fore the Grecian court of appeals. The
decision of the court will be given
Tuesday. Insull is a name fresh in the
memory of many Americans who were
swindled and cheated by his bond is-
sues when he was the head of Chicago
utilities.

ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATION

Other attempts have been made on
the life of Governor Robert H. Gore
of Puerto Rico, who has been the ob-_
ject of severe political attacks. The
attempted assaSsination came as the re-
sults of several appointments that Gov-
ernor Gore has recently made, Sev-
eral bombs have been found about the
grounds of his residence-and threats
of poisoning have been received.

GRAF ZEPPELIN

The globe-trotter of the world, Ger-
many’s Graf Zeppelin, has pointed her
nose out to sea again after visiting
Chicago and Washington on its latest
trip to the U. S. Clear weather is
ahead as the Graf leaves for-Seville,
Spain, its first port of call. The Graf
has crossed the ocean half a hundred
times and has traveled over sixty thou-
sand miles.

GOLD PRICE SET

The price of all newly-mined gold
has been set at $31.36 an ounce as
President Roosevelt continued his plan
for money control and price boosting.
The President plans to create a new
level for domestic commodity prices
and to free the dollar from foreign in-
fluence. The result of his most re-
cent action was to move stocks upward
and throw confusion into’the foreign
exchange markets,

BIGGER POPULATION PROGRAM

A new Fascist rite, “the consecra-
tion of nuptiality,” will be celebrated
October 30 in Rome with the marriage
of two thousand couples. The cere-
mony will inaugurate the twelfth year
of Fascism and will exalt the program
of Premier Mussolini for a bigger pop-
ulation. The simultaneous marriage
will ‘be the largest of its kind ever held
and will help to give the world an idea
as to the power of Fascism.

LITVINOFF OFF FOR U. S.
Maxim Litvinoff, Russian commissar

Universe May Be
Reborn is Belief

The universe may be reborn every
so often by means of a mighty explo-
sion, only to die again and be reborn
in another great blast is the opinion
of Abbe Georges le Maitre, Belgian sci-
entist teaching in Catholic University.

He believes that the universe could
have been originally one great atom
which probably blew up. 10,000,000,000
years ago, the particles of which are
still travelling apart at terrific speed.

On Other Campuses

AUBURN

The “Auburn Plainsman” ran a story
of the freshman co-ed who received a
copy of “What Every Young Woman
Should Know.” The co-ed, after read-
ing the book in a most thorough man-
ner, wrote to the publishers and sug-
gested the revision of three sections,
and the addition of four new chapters.

GEORGIA

From down Georgia way comes the
news that one of the more intelligent
professors received a wire from his
wife saying that she had just given
birth to a seven-pound daughter, Print-
ed across the bottom of the message
were these words, “If you want a boy,
call Western Union.”

LOYOLA

The latest scandal at Loyola Univer-
sity of New Orleans is the publishing
of the “Skunk” letter. Seems like
someone stole into the publication of-
fices and’ edited a letter, which in no
mean terms let the sophs know how
well the freshmen liked them. Appar-
ently the letter was not of a compli-
mentary type, as the sophs have put
some collegiate super-sleuths on the
trail, and hope to have the culprit
brought to justice immediately.

BAYLOR

At Baylor University this year, there
has been registered in the Freshman
class the first set of quadruplets ever
to enter college.

‘TULANE

“Pednertz, popcorn, programs, chew-
ing-gum!” Just picture it! Two fair
Tulane co-eds selling candy and gum
to the howling mob of Tulane rooters
on the Colgate-bound train. Yes, sir!
“Colgate or bust” is their motto. They
have written a personal letter to the
president of the L. & N. Railroad, ask-
ing permission to vend their wares on
the special. This is one time the
weaker sex ran way ahead ‘of the
brawny males. By selling gum, etc.,
on the train and at the game, the two
girls hope to pay their expenses, and
get into the game gratis, too. Clever,
these modern women!!

GEORGIA TECH

The Southeastern Student Branch of
the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, oldest and largest profes-
sional engineering society, will meet in
annual conference in the spring of 1934
as the guests of Georgia Tech. The
feature of the conference will be the
presentation of technical papers, one
from each school represented, in com-
petition for the Hillyer Award of $50

of foreign affairs, left Moscow Thurs-g-fpr first. prize.
“45 OM

day on a trip to the United States in
order to discuss, the problem of Rus-
sian recognition with President Roose-
velt. The commissar’s departure was
veiled with mystery when he slipped
away by special train via Berlin, He
refused to discuss any plans or make.
any statements as to the probable out-
come of the parley.

CHASE BANK CALLED LAX

Senator Couzens, Republican from
Michigan, before the senate banking
committee in the concluding session of
its inquiry into Cuban loans, called the
Chase National Bank officials lax in
trying to protect the security-buying
public. His declarations came after.a
Chase officer’s report of tremendous
graft in the floating of bonds to finance |
public works in Cuba.

INLFATION

Talk of inflation is still the order of
the day and credit expansion goes on
despite the buying of gold.’ However,
the concentration of the: administra-
tion’s price lifting efforts on its gold
price level will occasion no change in
the credit expansion program. The
dollar devaluation through raising the
Price of newly-mined gold, which the
government will buy, succeeded last
week in promoting ntoderate buying
in stock and commodity markets. The
credit expansion is expected to help
business activity and escape the retard-
ing factor of uncertainty over the fu-

ture status of the dollar itself.

WASHINGTON & LEE

Explaining the significance of the
38 answers to a questionnaire sent to
45 students this summer in an effort
to obtain some idea of student ex-
penses, Dr. Robert H. Tucker, dean of
the university, made the
statement:

“Although the survey is too limited
to justify any generalization, it does
indicate that Washington and Lee is
not unduly expensive, and that the
student who exercises self-control in

expehses' can go through school for
$750 or less.”

SUC Tb

= STATIONERY

following |

From the Background

dear editor. they tell me that that was
some game in raleigh last saturday and
that our own cats did well to earn a
tie with the state boys thanks to the
alert and elusive mackorell and the
fine estaba gs of the entire davidson
team. :

i heard that wingfield tackled ‘mcquage
once and told him that one was for
sgt kirby who was with the state star
in clemson last spring.

last friday t. f. neal cut a class and
saturday he got a card charging him
with three cuts. it. seems there was to
be a review during the period and it
preceded an away-from-home game.
doubled and redoubled.

heath whittle was in a sweat friday
when he tried to gather his freshman
cross-country runners only to find that
the second and fourth ranking ones
had become homesick and gone to see
their mothers.

did you know that count ilia tolstoy
Was or is an sae question mark.

skating that is roller skating season is
in the offing. it seems that gin thomp-
son and lib rhett have revived the stu-
dents interest in the sport.

did you know that versa vice is vicé
versa of vice versa but that vice versa
is vice versa of versa vice and not
versa vice vice versa of versa vice
question mark.

the best one word description of p. d.
guerrant is harpo.

at state they call gullette gillette and
legeare is pronounced legree and not
legare. further south they pronounce
martin mawtin.

saw wee thompson among those who
took advantage of the training let-off.

the football squad was hunting fresh-
men sunday monday and __ tuesday.
hunting freshmen who carried matches.

t. h. mecallie joined the ranks of stu-
dents who occupy the limelight with
his speechmaking monday morning.

eb willson and buck kirkland have a
time coaching a football team. eb dees
the coaching and kirkland tries to help
him by using business tactics.

famous final words colon come up to
see me sometimes,
randy.

FINE SHOWING OF
BAND IS PRAISED

(Continued from page 1)
Barium Springs Orphanage, on asking
for a concert, wrote as follows: “Be
sure and bring that high-stepping drum
major with you; he’s the.best I’ve seen
anywhere.”

Several other congratulations have
been received. Among them are one
by James C. Harper, director of the
famous Lenoir Band, and from Rey.
Gordon Spaugh, of Winston, who
writes: “I have seen football games
and college bands in all sections of
the country, but the Davidson Band is
superior to any that I’ve seen.”

Several newspapers carried -com-
ments on the band’s performance at
the Duke game. Some of them were
the Spartanburg, S. C, paper, the

Charlotte News, and the Greensboro
News.

“QUADWRANGLERS”
HOLD MOCK TRIAL

(Continued from page 1)
nished as chairman of the decorations
committee.

This club meets once each month,
but beginning November Ist, every sec-
ond and fourth Thursday ‘afternoon at
4 o'clock the club will have a social
hour and light refreshments will be
served. These club meetings will con-
tinue throughout March. It was an-
nounced that Dr. T. W. Lingle would

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

be the speaker in November.

PROGRAMS

See BILL JOHNSON
@ 203 Watts

@ Garland Court -

in

ATT

Standard Printing Company

LOT

CHARLOTTE, N.C. @

