THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1933

The PMavidsontan

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD-0--GUERRAN:
. M. MANSON

iJ

L. W. CLARDY Br Managing Editor
A. F. SCHENCK..... Managing Fditor
W. M. THOMPSON. Managing Editor
ACK WILLIAMS Managing Editor
bb CASALL Athletic Editor
. E. LAKE. A Exchange Editor
- W. WHITE......... Feature Editor
. S. GAMBLE Su «-------Feature Editor
aT. GOODY ROONT Ziscncoccuccccdscnccncce Contributing Editor
FiacAr IM ANGUGMussasisbcntabedssgescacacscaeesseus Review Editor
D. D. McBRYDE ssociate Editor
R. L. McCALLIE--. Associate Editor
Cc. F. MYERS Associate Editor
B. B. SUGG ---Associate Editor
ry
BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON.. Assistant B M
A. H. MANSON A t Man
ALVIN BAYER, JR licitor
H. B. DANIEL... Li
J, M. DOUGLAS ee li
, L. GREEN..__-- i
W._P, SPRUNT olicitor
. R. TAYLOR... i
. A. C. WADSWORTH licitor
. E. WHITE. olicitor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
ALD iy E..- President
. S. GAMBLE Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG. Secretary-Treasurer
M. W. ALDERMAN .L.. McCLINTOCK
R. H. ALDERMAN {i L. McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W. _L. NORTHEN
. E. BOWE Cc. E. NORVEL
. E, BOYD E. L._ POWEL
. H. COVINGTON S. P, PRESTO
S. K. EATON P. M. ROGERS
fF B. FICKLIN B. L. ROSE
. L. LLE’ T. H. SUTTON
gAck HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
. C. HENRY K. D. WEEKS
k A. HUNTER W. R. WARD
. E, LORRAINE W._T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD ‘4 W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

FEBRUARY 22, 1933

“Tf the devil ever laughs, it must be at hypo-
crits; they are the greatest dupes he -has; they
serve him better than any others, but receive no
wages; nay what is still more extraordinary, they
submit to greater mortifications to go to hell, than
the sincerest Christian to go to Heaven.”

—Colton.
eve. Sf ees
THOUGHTS IN PASSING

Those who attended vespers last Sunday heard an
inspiring talk by Mr. Boyd Hargreaves, prominent
lawyer of Chatt ga, T

pee ey

The weather bureau of the Davidsonian forecasts
that spring is close at hand with perhaps only one cold
spell left.

prcsttcet) ) Pruenainem
The next journey of the “Wildcat Special” will be
to the inauguration at Washington. Quite a few are
planning to attend. We hope they will keep out of
the path of stray bullets.
SEES» yemnenean
We are wondering what this second Roosevelt will
do as President. Theodore R velt was a fine Presi-
dent and we have hopes that Franklin D. Roosevelt
will be just as good. He will have to be better, if he
pulls this country out of the depression.
oe ) pone
We hope Carter Glass will accept the position of
Secretary of the Treasury. He is capable, honest and
the best fitted man in the country for the position.
Naturally, we would like to see a Southerner in the

Cabinet.

pe ye
The victory of the wrestling team over V. P. I. was
a-thrilling sight to see. Coach Unger and his team
deserve a great deal of credit.
Soo Stacey Pe LS
The prospects of a state championship in wrestling
are good and we hope the boys will down Carolina
and win it.
CSET youre
Let us not forget to keep the Y. M. C. A. Spring
Services in mind. With Gipsy Smith, Jr., as the
speaker, they ought to be splendid.
ee ae erear
The question of repeal is causing much interest all
over the country and in the “dry”? South it is none
the less turbulant. It seems to us, however, that the
question of unemployment is far more important.

All Davidson music lovers should not fail to hear
Fritz Kreisler when he appears at the Armory Audi-
torium in Charlotte February 28.

He is probably the greatest living violinist today.
His réndition of his own compositions, the Old Re-
frain and the less familiar but nonetheless beautiful
“Caprice Viennois” should be worth any effort ex-
pended to attend the concert.

z —D.

The track team is working hard now and looking
forward to their trip to Florida where, at Gainesville,
they will meet the University of Florida,

DAVIDSON WALKS >

“They shall not drown here, by Sir John!
If I may save their life!”
The Chester Plays.

It is somewhat with this spirit that we write
this editorial, having regarded for the last
half-hour the pitiful and ridiculous floundering
and slipping, sliming and slithering of our fel-
low students as they make their various ways
along the ooze and muck of Davidson’s walks.
Says Webster, “A walk is a path specially ar-
ranged_or_paved_for walking.” Had he been
a student sufferer would he have written thus?
Our doubts are rather strong. We are remind-
ed of the aged lady who, upon visiting Venice,
wrote: “We stayed only one day here. The
town flooded.” One student has gone so far
as to propose a “Rho, Rho, Rho” fraternity!

The rusticity of unpaved campus walks is
beautiful—that is, on surnv days. But when
weather, such as has been our lot for the past
week, turns these walks intg slime, we forget
appreciation of beauty and turn our thoughts
to utility, wishing for the day when Davidson
walks shall be paved.

Is it not a worthy cause? Would it not be
a wise investment? Regard with us this root
of many ills.

The local infirmary will affirm the conten-
tion that most absences from classes when due
to sickness are caused by colds. Then inquire
of the students as to the reason thereof. Ina
large number of cases the answer will be,
“Wet feet!” Isn’t the coughing in chapel and
church, which threatens to supplant the van-
ished hissing as one of our woes, another irk-
ing result? Less important perhaps, yet to be
considered, is the effect of the walks upon the
personal appearance of the students. Should
they like peacocks be belittled by their feet?
Lastly, doesn’t the grass of our beautiful cam-
pus. suffer. from the insufficiencies of our
paths? Many of our scholars trample upon
it merely to avoid “brilling and slithering in
the slimy tove.”

Answering these questions in the affirmative
and deeming our cause worthy, we make our
plea: fulfill our need for paved walkways in
the same way that you have met our other
wants, Davidson. Then and only then shall
we be able to say without apprehension, some-
what as the Buddhists do, “Then rain if thou

wilt, O Sky!”
—ALEX SCHENCK.

FIRESIDE FORUMS

Under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. at
Davidson a group meeting called the fireside
forum was started some time ago, but attend-
ance fell off before Christmas, and no more
were held. This forum was revived last week,
however, and in the future they will be con-
ducted every two weeks in the Y Social Cen-
ter! Dr. P. H. Gwynn led the discussion in the
one-held last week ow race relations, which is
a very pressing problem especially here in the
South, and the discussion group proved very
successful.

Because of the nature of the discussion, the
group is conducted informally and it is rather
small. Such a discussion could not be conduct-
ed with an extremely large group, or it would
have to be turned into a lecture, but for the
present the Y. M. C. A. invites the members
of the student body to participate in these dis-
cussions.

We come here to gain an education, or
should come here for that purpose, and we
certainly are not making’the most of‘our op-
portunities if, when we have such a chance.as
this, we do not make use of it. Of course the
Spiritual value is great, but all of these dis-
cussions are not about religious matters, al-
though the viewpoint of the Christian’ is al-
ways brought forth. These groups in the past
have been eminently worth while, and topics
in the future will be chosen which should-be
of most interest to students on this campus,

The Y. M. C. A. has sponsored many en-

deavors at Davidson, most of them on a much’

larger scale than this, but we believe that none
are more worth while than this forum. None
attend who do not really wish to do so, and
like the “Y” vespers, the atmosphere is one
of true sincerity and a seeking after knowl-
edge.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

Georgia Tech
The following are the ten most popular songs of
the past decade as picked by 370 radio artists, musi-
cians, music writers, orchestra leaders, and others:

“Ol Man Rivet,” Jerome Kern__--_-__-_--_______ 1927

“Man I Love,” George Gershwin_-_-_-__ peearatat boats 1928

“My Blue Heaven,” Walter Donaldson.

“Goodnight Sweetheart,” Noble Ray-----.------_-
~"When Day Is Done,” Katscher___-----____-______

“Stardust,” Hoagy Carmichael

“T’ll See You in My Dreams,” Isham Jofes______ 1924

“Tea for Two,” Vincent Youmans__--_---________ 1924

“Lover Come Back to Me,” Sigmond Romberg_--1928
“Russian Lullaby,” Irving Berlin 1927

“What Is This Thing Called Love?” “Chloe,” “My
Heart Stood Still,” “Who?” “All Alone,” “Crazy
Rhythm,” and “Me and My Shadow,” were runner-

‘ups to the first ten.

Agnes Scott
Six members of the senior class of Agnes Scott
were recently elected to Phi Beta Kappa: Mary

“in the same bank. Such is dife!”

I SAW

WORLD SPECTATOR

Peter, Peter, pumpkin eater,
Had a wife and couldn’t keep her
Even in a London cell
They couldn’t keep her very well.
Thresa Crowd. ”

.. and peered out at George Sherrod, enthusiastic
track-manager, who-sauntered-past- my -window-while
I was writing this column. He’s had the hardest !uck
of anybody I know. Some time ago he lost some
money in the Greensboro bank that failed. After its
reopening he continued to bank there and now it has
gone under again and so George has lost money twice

... m-o-r-e students planning to attend the inau-
guration in Washington, D. C., on March 4th. They
will go by special train and plan big doings in the
capital city. Among the crowd are: Ed Guerrant,
Brown-Eyes McCue, Ralph Smith, Arthur Ross, Jim
Harris, Carleton Chapman, Bob Gregory, Caskie Nor-
vel Allen Mebane, Parson Peabody, and Jerome
Clark.

., and heard it reported that a new arrival named
Vaiden, from somewhere in Georgia, sent his girl a
postcard, a special delivery letter, a telegram, and two
boxes of candy all on the same day recently; He must
be the answer to a maiden’s prayer.

. earnest Tempus Fugate, who can write poetry
nearly as well as I write this column, Scanning some
of his lines not long ago. Here is a masterpiece for
you:

Says the shoe to the stocking, “I’ll rub a hole in you.”
Says the stocking to the shoe, “I’ll be darned if you
do.”

. and like the one about the old maid who before’

retiring looked under her bed and found a man
there. She was asked if she screamed for_help.“‘No,”

sighed the other, “he did.” «

. the “trustys” of Davidson meet for a one-day
session since our last confab. There has been a rumor
of a cut and all the faculty members were holding
their breath. As a matter of fact our business has
been managed in such a capable way I am glad to
announce to everyone that a cut was not necessary.

...a large crowd of Charlotteans on hand to dance
to Rudy Valle’s suave music last Friday night. After
one of those pretty sorority girls from Queens-Chicora
sells a fellow a ticket he has to go whether or no.
Rudy says he likes the South and judging by the
people who were in the stampede to shake hands
with the “King of Crooners,” they like him. Why,
he didn’t play more than forty-five minutes all to-
gether, he was so busy shaking hands, and this went
on-from—the minute he stepped off the train until
time to leave. :

. or rather heard, the Fijis threw one grand and
glorious party in Charlotte Saturday night. The occa-
sion was their annual formal Pig Dinner. This. gas-
tronomic wonder was given at one of the better cafes
where there is an excellent restaurateur.

. .. loads of people going to see “Employees’ En-
trance” at the local cinema of a night last week.
Somebody has aptly said, “We wanted to see what
one looked like.” \

ome
. in the paper where all the columnists in New
York are down in Florida where the sun shines
bright. I wish I could go down there for a while. I’m
one male mortal who needs a rest—it’s such a job to
keep up with 600 students.

I hear the next issue of the Yowl appears on March
Ist and I can hardly wait to get my copy. The Yowl
is quite the vogue this season. I do hope the party
who writes “Trekking West” will arrive soon. I’m
worried about his ever being able to get back. Now
here is some advice for Davidson housewives: be sure
to buy Rip Van Winkle rugs the next time you pur-
chase such things: they have a longer nap. Here is
something you social aspirants_have been waiting to

hear, too: the surest way to cross. the social chasm -

is by bridge.
TIP POFF.

Clarke, Virginia Heard, Elizabeth Lightcap, Eulalia
Napier, Gail Nelson, and Margaret Telford.

Erskine

John “Hurry” Cain, Alabama’s All-American back,
received one ‘vote for President in the last election.
Strange but true.

Emory University will inaugurate a French village
next summer during. the summer school. During the
session, students in this class will have class work and
recreation apart from the other students. They will
carry on conversation entirely in French.

Wake Forest

Wake Forest crashed the National Rating of Foot-
ball this past year for the first time. The Deacon
eleven was given 84th place in the first hundred.
Duke was placed 52nd, State 72nd, but Davidson, al-
though we~frocked™ Wake Forest and Carolina, did
not place. 4

Clemson

The Tiger /tells us that Furman is giving a~dance
every Saturday night in the Poinsett Hotel in Green-
ville, sponsored by. the College Club of Furman. Duke
Welborn and his College Club orchestra will furnish
the music. een

The Oxford Union, which recently voted that its
members would not fight for king and country in
case ‘of war, has caused quite a bit of commotion in
Oxford. One night at one of their meetings, while
the secretary of the Union was reading the minutes
pertaining to the resolution not to fight, a group of
other Oxford students entered the hall, seized the
minute-book;-tore-out-the-minutes-and-departed-with-
out interference. Although pacifists, some of the
members of the Union were indignant that the presi-
dent did not offer resistance to the intruders.

——

The fastest man has ever traveled on his two feet
is 100 miles per hour. This record was made recently
by two ski racers at Saint Moritz. The men had. a
very steep.slope.specially laid out and smoothed for
them. Any irregularity would cause the skicrs to
lose their balance when they were going at such a
terrific speed. The slope -was marked so that the
speed could be determined by a stop watch. The
skiers wore specially designed costumes which cut
down their air resistance. The force of the wind was
so great that they had to squat down and hold to
specially designed handles on the tips of the skis.
The new record was much faster than last year’s
record of 89 miles per hour.

A $90,000,000 appropriation to farmers who need
seed for the coming season has just been approved.
This puts the Department of Agriculture in a peculiar
position, and one which shows the weakness of the
present political machinery in Washington. The De-
partment of Agriculture is authorized to distribute
$90,000,000 (which was collected from the people, a
great many of them farmers) “to the farmers who
need to buy seed and fertilizer for the coming year.
At the sime time the same department is required
to make every effort to cut down the production.
Who knows but that after they’ have given a great
deal for seeds, they will want the farmers to destroy
part of the crops? It seems that it would be much
simpler in the first place not to use this seed appro-
priation, and let the crop be smaller of its own ac-
cord. There is no doubt but that the $90,000,000 could
be used in many other ways.

Dr. Robert Cornish of the University of California
has invented a machine which he thinks will restore
to life anyone who has just had a fatal heart attack.
His machine has been tested by him once and has not
yet proved successful, but Dr. Cornish insists that his
machine is practicable and intends to make another
test. The apparatus consists of a see-saw plank ar-
rangement, so that the ends of the plank alternate
every six’ seconds. The victim is placed upon the
plank, which is set in motion; oxygen and artificial
respiration being applied at the same time. The the-
ory of the apparatus is that gravity will make the °
blood move one way and the valves close, making
the blood move throughout the veins on its return
course when the plank is tipped the other way. This
alternating of’the force of gravity, with the use of
the valves in the arteries, creates a pressure which
sends the blood to the vital organs. Dr. Cornish be-
lieves that his first test was not successful because
the victim had been dead too long. To be successful,

the machine must be used very soon after the-heart
attack,

Not only do we have with us now Technocracy,
but Biocracy, which applies biological laws of the
human body to economics and government. Dr. Wal-
ter B. Cannon, professor of physiology at Harvard,
recently disclosed his plans for a new form of social
order to a group of alumni at the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology. He said, “Civilization is in
a mess. Nothing could be more cruelly stupid than
the existing situation with train elevators bulging
while thousands of hungry are in bread lines; with
growers of cotton and wool unable to dispose of their
stocks while children are suffering from nakedness;
with factories idle while men willing to work in them
are shut from their doors.” Dr. Cannon then went on
to show how the law of the human body could con-
trol. the situation and bring it back to an even keel.

In a recent issue of Collier’s the cartoonist brought
forth an ‘invention to cure all unemployment, a ma-
chine requiring a hundred Operators which did the
work of one man. It js quite right that this invention
would cure unemployment, and the same might be
done with agriculture. Provide the farmers with
hand trowels and let them work their fields by the
use of these instruments. Everyone would ‘have
plenty of work, and there would be no great surplus.
Of course the efficiency would not be very high and
the workers would have to do a great deal to accom-
plish even a fraction of what a modern machine op-
erated by one man can do. Technocracy attempts to
reverse the procedure. It wants machines with which
one man can do the work of one hundred. This is
being done at the present to some extent, but with
the result that unemployment is increasing. Tech-
nocracy changes the conditions by accepting unem-
ployment, but giving everyone some unemployment
instead of letting a few have all the leisure time.
Through control from the top, each man is allowed
to work only a certain length of time. Thus he has
part of the time used by working and part of it in
leisure instead of his working all the time and some-
one else working none of the time.

eae

According to the V. P. I. paper, the University of
Richmond. students favor membership jn-O. D. K. to
Phi Beta Kappa. .
