THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1933

The Dabidsonian —

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: er copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office at Davidson, North Carolina.

10 cents

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing: Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

especially the rich, had his beer anyway, in
their attempts to get the Volstead Act re-
pealed. They contended that there was more
drinking under prohibition than there was be-
fore the amendment was made, and now they
say that the country is elated over the lawful
right to drink beer again.

At any rate, the legalization of beer drink-
ing does not make it ethically or morally right

HILL RAIDIN’

Sosasdesscbaccsuccecsceed. Editor-in-Chief

An ANEON oe Bannan Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF

Gi) 1h CIUSIV EN Rvs cutaaccbukdecdétcnsucxececcs Managing Editor

E, --Managing Editor

B. --Managing Editor

K. --Managing Editor

fom
>

=Pre

.-Athletic Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

._ M. THOMPS!
K WILLIAMS, JR..

a
>

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
-----Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Pao op pps pet ---Solicitor

Ectubewbvccskbadgabapecasuseoesclee Solicitor

sHs0->s

E, President
D._B. Vice-President
SAM EATON. tary-Treasurer

M. W. ALDERMAN W.
B. C. BARNES
BILL BOWMAN
ADDISON BRENIZER

C. NEILL
JACK PLUNKETT
ROGER RILEY
P. M. ROGERS

LAMONT BROWN J. H. ROSS ‘
TOM DOWNIE CHARLES SUTLIVE
HARVEY GLASS T. H, SUTTON
BILL GOODY KOONTZ W. T, THOMPSON
P. D. GUERRANT OHN WALKER
PAUL HARLAN N. W. WALLACE
HUN J. W. WHITE

CARLYLE LEWIS T, F. WOOD
jj L. McCLINTOCK ED WOOTEN

ILL MERCHANT FIELDS YOUNG

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1933

The older I grow, the more I learn —Solon.

Our deepest sympathy is extended to
Herbert W. Lucas in the death of his

mother.

VISITS

Visrts such as the one made last week-end
by the deputation from Union Theological
Seminary of Richmond have a great deal to
do in making impressions upon prospective
students for the school. The deputations sent
out each week by the Y. M. C. A. here at Da-
vidson no doubt have brought many splendid
Students here for their college work.

EASTER GREETINGS!

DEBATING AND PUBLICITY

In past years most of Davidson’s publicity
has come almost entirely through the success
of Davidson’s athletic teams and through the
famous “Wildcat Spirit” displayed by these
Sport representatives. But last year, and es-
pecially this year, debating teams representing
Davidson have gone a long Way in putting
Davidson’s name among the schools of the
Fast.

Last year, Davidson was represented by a
team which lost only one debate. This year,
one of the teams, composed of Gordon Brown
and Leland McKeithan, -with T. P. Caldwell
as alternate, has won all of its conflicts, and
in doing so has won for Davdison worlds of
publicity. On a recent trip North these rep-
resentatives won unanimous decision victories
over the debating teams of the University of
Richmond, Rutgers University of New York,
and Bucknell University, and took part in a
non-decision Oxford-style debate against Ha-
verford College, in each case debating the neg-
ative side of the question, “Resolved: That
the War Debts Should Be Cancelled.” The

‘four schools mentioned above are noted for
their debating teams.

On the strength of the record of this team,
Davidson is getting debates next year with
Yale and Princeton Universities. The pub-
licity which Davidson has gained this year,
and which it will gain next year in its debates
with Yale and Princeton will mean a lot to
the college. ;

Dr. C. K. Brown deserves much of the credit
for these victories since it was by his con-
stant work and co-operation that the debaters
developed such good arguments.

WATER IS BEST

The country as a whole seems to be elated
over the recent passage of the “Beer Bill.”
Periodicals bring in news which say, “beer
drinking promises to be fashionable. The elite
of all the large cities are preparing for the re-
turn of beer. Fhe wealthy are having pent-
houses turned into beer gardens and cellars
transformed into tap rooms.” — j=

What we don’t understand is why these
same newspapers used the argument that pro-
hibition did not prohibit and that everybody,

|

sae Alumni Editor ;

»

Tulane

World peace is the apparent aim of many Tulane
students and a’ number in other colleges throughout
the United States, if recent developments have any
meaning. Three petitions aiming to abolish war are
now in circulation on the Tulane campus. The gist
of these include: the denunciation of propaganda glo-
rifying war, the abolition of excessive nationalism,

the united refusal of the youth of America to bear .

arms except in case of invasion, and attempts to re-
move all causes of war.

Duke
In accordance with tradition, the Senior class of
Trinity College has challenged the faculty of Duke
University to a fight to the finish in that combat of
cosmic importance, baseball. This Faculty-Senior

’ baseball game has become a yearly affair at Duke,

the faculty winning most of the games despite the
interference of Father Time and the well-known Dan
Cupid.

Alabama

Prepared for their biggest “A” Day, University
of Alabama students relaxed in a sort of conserva-
tive Mardi Gras festival last Wednesday, when fac-
ulty and students joined in celebrating the annual
holiday. The pregram for the day’s events included
such frivolities as: rolling pin throwing for faculty
wives, pie eating contests for politicians, inter-fra-=
ternity track competition, greased pole climbing, and
the like.

Northwestern
Northwestern University was recently the center of
a heated campaign to allow women to stay out until
2:00 A. M. The fairer sex at present are still sub-
ject to the strict ruling which allows them to stay
out-until only-1:00 A. M. Whattalife!
Vv. M. I. i
From the exchange column of the V. M. I. “Cadet,”
the following was found quoted from.the “David-
sonian’’:
“How sweet to awaken in the morn
When sunbeams first begin to creep
Across the lea, and then to turn
Right back again and go to sleep.”
The “Cadet’s” version of the poem is this:
“Uh, huh, How sweet to awaken in the morn
Before the sunbeams first begin to creep
Across the hills, and then to turn
Right out to breakfast still craving sleep.”

CURRENT EVENTS IN
NATURE

By BILL WARD

The Davidson campus is a favorite place for love-
making—among the birds. The Flicker who ham-
mers out a rolling tatoo on the tin roof of the old
gymnasium about 6:30 every morning has not en-
tirely lost his mind, and is not trying to make a nest
in such a place. He is merely beating out a tender
love song to his mate, who probably enjoys it more
than the fellows rooming in the front of Watts.

A few mornings ago I saw a pair of Flickers bill-
ing and cooing on one of the flood lights in front of
Chambers, , Their clumsy attempts at showing affec-
tion are about as awkward and grotesque as any of
the birds we have.

Almost every day soméone asks me if I have yet
seen the Goldfinches, or “Wild Canaries.” Little as
it is realized, these fellows stay with us all the year
‘round, but it is only when they put on their bright
yellow and black spring plumage that we notice them.
From now until the first of June the brilliant flocks
of these finches, singing crazily as they pick up
dandelion and other seeds, will be familiar sights on
the campus.

Not until last week did I notice any Goldfinches in
their spring plumage. One poor: fellow was about
half through molting, and the queerly mottled color
of his feathers gave him a freakish appearance, These
birds seem to enjoy roving about in great flocks all
spring, and it is not until the last of June or the first
of July that they settle down to the serious business
of rearing a family.

Exactly contrary to the Goldfinches are the Starl-
ings, who already have nesting activities well under
way on the campus. The nest in an old woodpeck-
er’s hole in front of the “Y” has contained four pale
blue eggs for over two weeks, and hatching time
must certainly be drawing near.

A congregation of Starlings gather each evening
to roost in the vines about the Library. Apparently,
all of these birds in Davidson and Cornelius gather
at that one. spot, and the noise and confusion is aug-
mented by scores. of English Sparrows, who roost in
the same vines. Perhaps the two species feel a sense

WHO, ME?

NEWS DIGEST

4

Diary of a Modern Pepys: Up and to school where,
having taken two reviews, I wondered at the un-
canny ability of professors which is exemplified in
their choice of questions ... and after this to chapel
where I became irritated at nothing in particular...
later to the book store where, but for the grace
of Providence and the kindness of a friend who sup-
ported me as I staggered out, I should have re-
mained, having once heard the price of a much-
needed book ... (Anything over two figures is ex-
pensive to me, and, incidentally, the cost of good
literature prompts me to communism) , , . presently
to lunch where I was positively stupefied at the ver-
satility of two who toyed with the ice for eons be-
fore accomplishing the feat of transferring it from
the bowl to the tumblers ... I never saw more done
with so commonplace a substance . . . in the last
throes one managed to disturb the equilibrium of
his glass of water, and jumping up in so doing, was
remarkably successful in treading on the feet of
three at once . . . (Incorporated, he would bring
some clever concessioner a fortune) .,.~ to the library
where I spent a“ pleasant afternoon, noting, among
other things, some interesting plays from the 47
Workshop . .. as the sun was setting, to supper with
a friend to whom I expressed determination to ef-
fectuate homicide if I heard it (the sun) called a
great ball of fire or a burnished platter, whereupon
he murmured something, which ended in a_half-
audible “platter” .. . and, in obedience to curfew, to
bed when the flesh was weary with a superabundance
of study. ...

@

Recently I met a coughing ghost whose initials
are E. S. Hodge outside the Chemistry Lab. After
much questioning, I was able to induse a faint “chlo-
rine” between gasps. With my usual mercenary as-
pect, I thought how nice it would be if he might
hold-on until after Easter, for lilies will be much
cheaper after there are no longer seasonal demands
for them.

And speaking of coughing, a certain Junior who
has-been barking like a dog with a bone in its throat
and wheezing like a water organ for the last week;
has found his malady convenient for retiring from
Static classes which are slightly too long drawn out.

I have never been lucky. As a small child I had
much difficulty in finding Easter eggs. Several days
ago I found the following poem floating around the
campus. (The poem it was that floated.) I’m still
in a dilemma trying to decide whether I have at
last been visited by Lady Luck or whether, in ad-
vent of her illness, she has sent her daughter, Miss
Fortune. At any rate, here’s the poem. It’s by one
of Davidson's more promising Poe-ts.

“Look! Behold a beautiful maid

Of green and purple and gold,” they said.
“She swam in a sea of marmalade

Strangled and sank, went down like lead;
Drowned in the sea, and is now quite dead,
Killed by the sea of marmalade.

Poor little maid, so dead, so dead,

Asleep in the deep of marmalade.”

Tap, tap, tap! With the regularity and diligence
of Dr. Samuel Johnson, Ed McNair goes along the
halls of his dormitory touching the door Posts and
knobs.

I won't mention in this column the fact that I saw
none other than Bill Matthews policing the golf
course Sunday afternoon for the purpose of prohibit-
ing those whose excessive supply of energy tends
to find an outlet in playing at all hours and times,

I have lately heard that through the efforts of those
who masque in the patriotic red and black the
corpse of poor Ernest. has been exhumed.

I have noticed that a certain Senior who smokes
only on week-ends or when he is taking blindfold
tests is apparently that way about a little brunette
who lives in Charlotte and with whom he had a date
this past Saturday P. M. Naturally he wouldn't have
had a date on Saturday A. M., for after all we do
have classes than. However, I’m not able to com-
mit myself regarding the whereabouts of the young
man in question on Sunday A. M.

of fellowship, since they both are natives of Europe,
and are aliens in a foreign land.

A mere glance at the flock of Starlings at the Li-
brary will convince one of the rapid increase of these
hardy birds. The Starling was introduced into Amer-
ica in 1890, and in spite of the fact that it has been
in North Carolina a comparatively small number of
years, it is already one of our most common species.

The spring migration is in full sway, and while
many of our winter birds have gone to nest in New
England and Canada, new arrivals are pouring in
every morning from the south. Some of the birds
that reached Davidson last week are: Wood
Thrushes, Chimney Swifts; White-eyed and Red-

, eyed Vireos, and Blue-gray Gnatcatchers.

Many of the old cocoons that have been hanging
on the campus trees all winter are now beginning
to awaken, and the moths are drilling out. Two
weeks ago a delicate green Luna Moth was brought
to my room, and last week a Polyphemus slipped out
of one of the cocoons on my desk. For Most insects,
the winter hibernation has ended.

The supreme challenge to lighter-than-air aviation
has come in the disaster to the Akron on last Tues-
day. This country has owned three great dirigibles
and two have been wrecked with heavy loss of life,
Whether this will discourage flying, by dirigible or
otherwise, will depend upon the viewpoint which the
general public takes.

Congressman Fish of New York has demanded an
investigation of the tragedy. There have been rumors
of sabotage but it is unnecessary to think that a for-
eign government should wish to destroy a great ship
in peace time. It is doubtful at any rate whether
the investigation committee will decide anything be-
cause the only evidence rests on the floor of the
ocean.

Lieutenant Wiley, second in command and the
only officer to survive, discounts the theory that the
ship was struck by lightning. He says, “The ship
took a sharp lurch and the control wires of the upper
rudder were carried away.” Although the Akron
was surrounded by lightning at the time, he does not
think it possible that this could have caused so much
damage.

The Navy prides itself on the discipline of its men
and this discipline was admirably illustrated in the
calm of the crew when a crash was inevitable. The
succinct order, “All hands stand by for a crash,”
found the men in perfect order. It is a memorial to
the courage of those men to say in the words of
Lieutenant Wiley, “They were calm and did not
flinch.”

Carried on for several years, the fight between pro-
hibitionists and repealers was ended last Thursday
night at 12:01 by the return of legal beer. Beer
balls and beer parties stayed up until the late hours
to see its advent although with an attitude of solemn-
ity and expectation rather than hilarity.

The beer is now legal in nineteen states, with many
others falling in line. It is hoped that the sale of
the beverage will bring plenty of revenue. Attorney-
General Cummings comments that beer “would con-

tribute materially to the government’s economy..pro-.-

gram by lessening the need for enforcement officers,
lightening the load on the courts and decreasing the
number of prison inhabitants.”

At the end of its first month of office the Roose-
velt administration has gained a full grip upon the
confidence of the people. The new deal was con-
ceived and executed with skill and ingenuity. A
month ago we were a stricken and disorganized pack
which was ready to follow at the heels of any leader.
We received Mr, Roosevelt with a mixture of hope
and incredulity.

Since then wewhave, “in the short time of one
month, imbued him with a spirit of conscious back-
ing which should carry him far. There is, as, yet, no
spirited opposition to the administration. On the con-
trary, there seems everywhere to be a willingness
to help. This has taught us that we cannot wait

dumbly and miserably for a change, but that we
must work for it.

_

The modern method for settling disputes and reach-
ing conclusions is to call a conference.
are now hurrying to the capitals of nine?
ernments to assemble their leaders
for an international confab on world
is hoped that a plan will, be adopted
operation between these nations in t
business,

Invitations
great gov-
in Washington
conditions, It
for better co-
he interest of
Invitations have been sent to Argentina, Brazil,
Chile, China, England, France, Germany, Italy, and
Japan. Almost all of these countries have already
agreed to send representatives and it is hoped that,
if an agreement can be reached, the conference will
be another step forward in international relations.

_

The first step in the unique mobilization program
of forest workers has been completed. This program
is aimed at the enrollment of one man for each 500
inhabitants in the nation. Twenty-five thousand are
already enrolled and entered into army condition
camps from which, two weeks hence, they will re-
port for work in the forests.

The first recruits come from the Atlantic Seaboard
and plans for a second contingent to come from the
Western States have been made. Robert Fechner,
director of the Program, and the park ‘service have
mapped out a series of Projécts which will require
60,000 man-months of labor in all of the larger for-
ests. This unique plan will lessen the number of un-
employed, preserve virgin stands of timber, and give
the forestry service a chance to complete the useful

work that they had begun but did not have the
Means of finishing,

The conference between Norman Davis, ambassa-
dor-at-large to Europe, and Adolf Hitler ended in
a mutual draw. Hitler explained that the Reich would
not re-arm, but simply wished to have enough forces
to defend its own boundaries and not for any of-
fensive operations,

Mr. Davis expressed the opinion that the dictator's
anti-Semi Ic_policy might prove a disturbing influ-
ence in Id conditions. The whole talk was very

friendly and Davis left with the impression that ’Ger-
many’s new “man

: of iron” had great Power and
dynamic force.
