THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1933

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated Colleginte Press

= 1933 (nationar|

=) covenact) 1934 ©

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

‘ Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate year.

Entered as second-cl matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879,

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managin Editors
by) 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are
welcome, but all communications intended publication
must be signed.

for

ODI CASALI_.

guessxs ocsececoee- Editor
W. T. JOHNSON....

siness Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bcsbcesdsusaveuiced Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
Alumni Editor
Sports Editor
itorial Writer
-Exchange Editor
eature Editor

Rwme
Simo

Feature
Feature Editor
-Review Editor
-Associate Editor

SP rooyupmzns

ssociate Editor
Associate Editor

JACK WILLIAMS, JR.-

BUSINESS STAFF

G..L. GREEN...-. -------+----------Assistant Business Manager
W._L. SPRUNT.... ssistant Business Manager
} R. TAYLOR. c25....:. Assistant Business Manager
. A. C. WADSWORTHL...._..........Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1933

The secret of happiness is not in doing what one
likes, but in liking what one has to do.
—James M. Barrie.

FALL SERVICES

An alumnus of Davidson expressed my thought
well when he said, “During my college years,
the Fall and Spring Services were always the
high spots of my Christian experience.”

How true is this statement. For during these
periods an opportunity is presented to us to
come to know Christ as never before; and a
challenge is given us to turn our thinking once
more from the grosser things of this life to the
finer, more lasting things of His life.

Fall Services for this year will start Sunday
with the morning service; and they will indeed
merit a high place in our thinking. They will
be led by Dr. Ben R. Lacy, who is one of the
ablest speakers, particularly to young people, in
our Church,

Yet a speaker alone cannot make a success-
ful service. Here on this campus, if we are to
make these services mean what they can, and
what they should mean, every man must pre-
pare his thinking to receive the thoughts to be
presented during this brief period.

These services should mean a reconsecration
of mind and body to God; they should go far
toward making this college, as it is so often
called, truly Christian, And is not this Christian
spirit of unselfish love after all at the founda-
tion of the much-reyered Davidson Spirit? Is
not Christianity indeed fundamental in this stu-
dent body ?

May each Davidson man prepare his heart
with prayer and meditation for these coming
services, that the message ‘brought by His ser-
vant may fall in good soil and bear fruit.

—W. M. T.
.
DAVIDSON’S ALUMNI SECRETARY

The resignation of Mr, Ernest Milton left a
vacancy in one of the most important branches
of the college’s administration, and most of us
believed that the discovery of a capable and effi-
cient man who would be able to maintain the
high standard of excellence set by his predeces-
sor would be very difficult, if not impossible.

The announcement that Mr, Grier Martin had
accepted this position allayed the. fears of all.
Here was a man who had proven his ability in
his four years at Davidson; who as a student
had demonstrated his leadership in scholastic,
athletic, journalistic, and literary endeavors. He,
perhaps above all others, could serve .as an ef-
fective medium through which the vital issues
and interests of the college might be transmitted
to the alumni.

His relative short tenure of office has already
shown that the preceding conclusions are true.
Under his guidance and principally through his
efforts an innovation in Davidson’s publicity
scheme has been begun. The weekly broadcasts
over WBT are original and unique. Through
this most modern method Davidson is brought
before the public eye; student activities are pro-
vided with a broader field of expression and the
interest in all forms of music, forensics, etc., is
stimulated; the students enjoy the programs,
both those who participate and those who listen
in.

Mr. Martin contributes “Davidson News” to
the Charlotte newspapers. He reports the ac-
tivities of the faculty, the alumni, and the stu-

dents, collectively and individually. The athletic
teams’ write-ups are principally the result of his
work.

The Alumni Page in the Davidsonian is edited
by Mr. Martin. ;Here all items of interest con-
cerning former Davidson students will be found.

These three portions of Mr. Martin’s work
are important and require a great deal of time
and effort, but even more significant and la-
borious is the vast amount of planning and cler-
ical work that he has to do concerning the
alumni, their class reunions, change of address,
marriages, deaths, and other details too numer-
ous to mention.

The Alumni Secretary is splendidly fitted for
his position. His being a comparatively recent
graduate, we feel that he is one of us,—and what
greater requirement is there than that the man
in such an office be actively interested in and
‘understand the student body? Mr. Martin is
respected and admired by us all. His success
in the handling of his job merits praise. We sin-
cerely hope that further achievement and ac-
complishment will favor him while moulding Da-
vidson’s publicity plans and in keeping the alumni
in close touch with their Alma Mater.

—R.P.-T.

NOT GLORIFICATION

In last week’s edition of “The Davidsonian,”
there appeared an article on Halloween, relat-
ing a few of the incidents that occurred on the
Davidson campus on the night when human be-
ings try to see just how silly they can act. Feel-
ing that the happenings were bits of news, “The
Davidsonian” carried thé story. Some who read
the story, however, felt that this paper was glori-
fying the degrading acts of Davidson students.
Not glorification, but merely the recording of
news was the intention of this paper.

Although it is admitted that certain of the
incidents related probably involved implications
and should have been. left out for that reason;
nevertheless, “The Davidsonian,” since it has not
reached any great degree of infallibility, feels
that it should not be criticized too severely for
such petty matters.

The attitude expressed by “The Davidsonian”
in the past should be convincing evidence of the
position of this newspaper towards degrading
acts of Davidson students.

WHAT CAN YOU DO ABOUT IT?

From almost the start of the year there has
been growing a spirit of pride in Davidson’s
Music Department, This has been evidenced
through the columns of ‘The Davidsonian,” and
recently editorials have broken into print prais-
ing the work of Professor Pfohl and the student
members of the band and orchestra, This spirit
of pride and praise is welcome, but the question,
“What Gan you’ do about it?” still remains.

Fortunately the band and orchestra have excel-
lent material. The first chair men of the clarinet,
cornet, horn and drum sections are men. which
many professional bands would be glad to have,
and they are well supported by the less able but
proficient secondary musicians. Excellent ma-
terial is on hand this year, but the only hope the
Davidson Band has of continuous excellence is
that high school seniors of superior musical tal-
ent be induced to come to Davidson.

If Davidson is to become famous for its band
and orchestra, each year a musically strong
freshman class must be realized. It is to this
end that the student body can work. If you
individually tase of a high school senior who is
an able musician and who would make a worthy
Davidson student, work on him, send him copies
of “The Davidsonian,” rush him just as you
would a fraternity prospect. If the student body
will work to bring good musicians to Davidson
they will be doing just as fine a thing as draw-
ing prospective football material.

It is with this idea in mind that musicians
from nearby high schools have been invited to
play with the band at football games. This gives
the players a favorable opinion of Davidson, but
it is left to Davidson men themselves to deliver
the finishing touch. Get good musicians to Da-
vidson and she will become as famous for her
music as she is now famous for her spirit.—S.

Here and There

Exactly thirty-nine freshmen at the Univer-
sity of Florida were promised the freshman class
presidency during the active campaigning of rush
week.

The Babson Institute at Wellesley, Massa-
chusetts, has a course in job hunting for unem-
ployed men, with a guarantee that tuition will
be refunded if on completion of course the “stu-
dent” fails to find work.

According to Dr. Helen Bull, college women
make better mothers than those who have not
had the advantage of, university training.

Dartmouth Colteve has formed a polo team
as an addition to its many athletic teams.

NEWS DIGEST

CAROLINAS DRY

Both of the Carolinas achieved quite |

a bit of prothinence last Tuesday when
they voted dry and became the only
states out of the thirty-nine which
have voted to hand in a dry majority.
North Carolina went dry by the mar-
gin of almost two to one, while South
Carolina had a harder struggle, the
final majority being only a few thou-
sand votes.

TAMMANY BROKEN

The power of the tiger of Tammany
was broken Tuesday in the recent elec-
tions for the mayor of New York for
the first time since 1914 when John
Mitchell was elected on a fusion ticket.
Fiorella LaGuardia, fusion candidate,
is the new mayor who was elected
over the bitter opposition’ of Joseph
McKee and John O’Brien, the Tam-
many candidate. And so the control
of New York passes from under the
control of the tiger for four years.

LITVINOFF WELCOMED

Litvinoff, the Russian commisar of
foreign relations, who is visiting in
the U. S. to discuss Russian recogni-
tion with President Roosevelt, jwas
welcomed at the White House“with
the informal handshake of the chief
executive. They chatted in the Blue
Room for about twenty minutes be-
fore the minister took his leave, Noth-
ing definite has yet been done about
the important question facing the two.

FARMERS

General Hugh Johnson has visited
the farm strike area in the midwest
and definitely told the striking farm-
ers that the effect of the federal loan
legislation would soon be felt and that
the effect of this legislation would be
to improve the conditions under which
they are now worknig and which the
farmers are fighting to improve.

WAR IN CUBA

President Grau San Martin has
signed a decree declaring that there
exists a state of war in Cuba, The
president's action came after rebel
forces had fought a street battle with
loyal troops, resulting in about one
hundred and twenty-five killed and
wounded, The Americans in Havana
are still in grave danger but the State
Department has repeated its intention
of avoiding intervention in the island’s
affairs,

A WARNING

Soviet authorities have warned Japan
that the flight of any more Japanese
planes over Soviet territory would
have disagreeable consequences, This
warning came as the result of a flight
of nine Japanese planes across the
Soviet frontier. ‘

, RESCUE

A rescue plane roared out of Cam-
eron Bay, in Northern Canada, with
its destination on the rim of the Arctic
where the crew of a mining supply
steamer is slowly dying of stervation
and cold. The boat caught fire on a
recent trip, sank with two of the crew
and the other members escaped in a
small rubber boat to the mainland.
Two of their number set out on the
long hike to Cameron Bay in sub-zero
weather. They arrived safely and told
of their companions’ plight, so now
the rescue plane has gone.

RUM TAXES

From now until the effective date
of repeal, federal agents will concen-
trate upon revenues from liquors and
in rounding up the big bootleggers and
racketeers. While the President and
the government work to fix the gov-
ernmental policy after repeal, others
will wage a campaign against the
moonshiners making failure to pay the
rum tax the basis of prosecution.

COTTON
After all the government's work to
reduce the cotton acreage by paying
farmers bonuses to plow up their cot-
ton, the Department of Agriculture es-
timates that the number of bales
ginned this year will exceed that of
1932 by 100,000. This estimate was an
increase over-the October estimate of

more than 215,000 bales

AFGAN KING SLAIN

Word has been received that Nadir
Shah Ghazi, the much-beloved king of
Afganistan, has been killed by an as-
sassin. The whole nation was plunged
into mourning and unanimously de-
clared its allegiance to Mohammed
Zadir Shah, the son of the slain mon-
arch.

GOODWILL TOUR

Goodwill tours seeth to be the order
of the day now. The most recent is
the 15,000-mile trip through Africa to
be made by thirty French airplanes
with sixty picked pilots. The trip will
enhance the military, commercial, and
technical prestige of |France in the
“dark continent.”

Dr. J. W. MacConnell
To Attend Meeting

Dr. Wilson MacConnell, college phy-
sician, will attend the Southern Med-
ical Association meeting in Richmond,
Va., this week. Dr. MacConnell is a
member of the Executive Committee
of the Federation of Medical Boards
of the United States and also a mem-
her of the Railway Surgeons Associa-
tion, which convene in the Virginia
capital this week.

CURRIE INTERVIEWED ON
REPEAL 18TH AMENDMENT

(Continued from page 1)
hibiting the shipment from wet to dry
states, :

Q. What steps will be taken to pro-
vent the return of open saloons?

A. New York State leads the way
by making rigorous provisions forbid-
dign the sale of liquor for consumption
on the premises... The laws against
saloons will vary according to the leg-
islation of each state.

Professor Currie agrees on this point
with an editorial printed in the Char-
lotte News and the Charlotte Observer
last Sunday. The editorial follows:

“Those who may have hoped for
return of the saloon of former days
are destined to disappointment, New
York leads the way to disbarment.
No saloons are to be permitted in that
state and the same ruling is to become
effective in all the 20 states in which
sale of liquor becomes lawful. The
popular plan is package sales, but in
some states sales by ‘taverns’ will be
permitted, but under restrictions that
make the tavern quite a different in-
stitution from the saloon.”

Q. Will the regulation of liquor cost
as much as prohibition?

A. It may cost more, but after it is
organized it should cost less.

Q. Will the government tax on
liquor be so high as to be prohibitive,
and thereby cause bootlegging?

A. I think not.

Q. Will it be illegal to transport
liquor through North Carolina from
Northern to Southern States?

A: It depends upon the attitude of
the federal government.

Q. Does North Carolina’s vote
against repeal prove that the majority
of North Carolinians are non-drink-
ers?

A. Yes.

Q. Does a city or county in a wet
state have the right to prohibit liquor?

A. Not unless it is granted the right
by the state legislature, but this priv-
ilege can usually be secured if it is
asked for.

Q. Will North Carolina have federal
aid in enforcing her dry laws?

A. The federal government
promised aid.

Q. Does the state legislature have
the power to repeal the dry laws at
any time in spite of the outcome of the
election?

A. Yes, but they would hardly dare
to do it.

Professor Currie also stated that he
felt that the repeal of the 18th amend-
ment would aid employment to some
extent,

has

Mountain Bleven
Next Foe for B-Team

Coach Doc Unger’s B-team will meet
Mountain Park Junior College on
Richardson Field Friday afternoon at
3 o'clock. The scrub team which each
week learns plays of Wildcat oppo-
nents will make use of Citadel tactics

.in an effort to win their second game

of the season.

On Other Campuses

AGNES SCOTT

Permanent possession of the cup, for
all-American rating was awarded to
the Agnes Scott year-book, the “ Sil-
houette.” The publication has won
the cup three years in succession, and
the award to the 1933 edition entitles
the college to keep the cup perma-
nently.

The cup is awarded annually by the
Photo-Process Engraving Company, on
the judgment of the National Schol-
astic Press Association, to the college
annual in the southeast winning the
all-American rating. The “Silhouette”
received 900 out of a possible 1,000
points. ;

The 1933 edition of the “ silhouette”
was edited by Carolina Lingle, daugh-
ter of Dr. Walter Lingle, President of
Davidson College.

~ U. OF SOUTH CAROLINA

“To Live Creatively” is the challenge
that has been accepted by the Y. M.
C. A. of the University. The Y’s en-
tire program will center around the
one main theme which involves crea-
tive living.

This year the “Y” is seeking to
bring the spirit of the Founder of
Christianity to bear upon the whole
range and art of living, and upon all
the conditions and problems of the
present time.

TULANE

The Student Council at Tulane has
appointed a committee on keys, which
will conduct an investigation into ex-
cessive participation of students in
extra-curricula activities.

This committee will also attempt to
formulate plans for a reduction of the
number of keys awarded to partici-
pants in campus activities. It is thought
that this move will eliminate those
students who join organizations for
the sole purpose of possessing keys.

V. M. I.

V. M. L's application to the Federal
Emergency Administration of Public
Works for a loan and grant of $360,-
000 for the purpose of constructing a
new mess hall and several minor build-
ing projects was recently approved by
the State Board and by Governor Pol-
lard and is now in Washington where
it is being reviewed and examined by
national public works officials. The
national administration will announce
soon whether the loan will be granted.

U. OF ALBERTA

Initiation ceremonies at the Univer-
sity of Alberta last year cost the school
$5,860. This is the amount an Edmon-
ton, Altoona, court awarded C, H. A.
Powlett and his son, Armand Powlett,
in their damage suit against the uni-
versity charging that Armand became
insane as a result of initiation cere-
monies.

“There should be compensation for
the boy as far as money can compen-
sate fully,” said the judgment. “I am
not unmindful of the doubtful state of
the recovery of Powlett. I have no
hesitation whatever in finding that the
mental illness of the young plaintiff
Was caused by the proceedings of the
initiation to which he was subjected.”

N. C. STATE

Take a look at some of the names
of the freshman football toters at
State. They are Sarin, Ryneska, Matys,
Chiemiego, Spitalnich, Jaskwhich, Ger-
showitz, Schollsburg, Istvaan, Kubesa,
and Reinesch. Heaven help the poor
radio announcer !

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Distinguished for 121 years in the whole

field of Theological Education, particularly
in the making of Preachers.

oad

AAA

STATIONERY

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

PROGRAMS

See BILL JOHNSON
e

203 Watts

@ Garland Court 0

Standard Printing Company

CHARLOTTE, N.C. @

iii

