THE DAVIDSONIAN, .MARCH 15, 1933

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago

FIVE YEARS AGO

An address by Rev. Edgar A. Gammon,
pastor of the Myers Park’ Presbyterian
Church of Charlotte, featured the elaborate
program of Athletic Night, staged on the
local campus. Mr. Gammon spoke on the
subject, “College Athletics,” and his talk
was delivered in his usual interesting style.

In the annual election of the cheer leader,
Nelson Myers, of the Junior class, was
chosen for the coming year. Myers defeat-
ed Bob Grady by a narrow margin in the
first ballot.

The Glee Club from Converse College will
present its program here Saturday and this
will be the outstanding feature of the week-
end.

The Junior class has prepared a varied
program for Junior Speaking. The main at-
traction is the presentation of “The Jollies
of 1928,” a musical entertainment conduct-
ed by Erwin Setzer, to be given in Char-
lotte.

TEN YEARS AGO

Three new coaches. will direct Wildcat
athletics next year when W. L. Younger,
S. D. Tilson, and C. W. Rawson take over
the assignments. “Monk” will coach the
backfield and “Tex” will drill the line. Raw-
son will have charge of Freshman athletics.

The Davidson grapplers made a credit-
able showing in their last meet of the sea-
son, although suffering the sting of an 18
to 10 defeat at the hands of V. M. L’s
Cadets.

Prof. R. P. Lane, of the Department of
Political Science in the University of Mich-
igan, delivered an intelligent and compre-
hensive lecture in Shearer Hall, on the-re-
cent Lausanne Conference.

Silver Screen

Wednesday, March 15—Men Must Fight

Photoplay says this picture is one of the
best of the current month. It is one of those
pictures discussing a problematic question.
In this case the problem is Pacifism. The
picture does not answer the question, but
does give a rather gloomy outlook for man-
kind. Nevertheless it does provoke thinking,
and anyone deeply interested in this ques-
tion can gain a vivid insight into the prob-
lem. It is recommended. only for those who
do think. Lewis Stone is excellent and he
is well supported by Diana Wynward, Phil-
lip Holmes and Robert Young.

Thursday, March 16—Topaze

John Barrymore chose this role above all
others because it was most to his liking.
It is the story of a professor who loses his
job and, innocently enough, becomes. en-
tangled with crooks. Learning their motive,
he “outcrooks the crooks.” And. not only
that, but won the villain’s girl. The picture
is different. John Barrymore’s acting is as
good as always. Myrna Loy and Gloria Stu-
art give him excellent support. The high
comedy of Barrymore makes the picture de-
lightfully entertaining.

Friday and Saturday, March 17-18—Sign of
the Cross

This picture is a classic and is perhaps
one of the best pictures of all time. It is
highly recommended and has been chosen
by every reviewer as an excellent picture.
It teaches a great moral truth. It is color-
ful and vivid as are all of Cecil B. DeMille’s
productions. It is the story of the early
Christian martyrs and of Roman life at that
time. The romance of Mercia, Christian
maiden, and Marcus, a Roman noble, is
one of the most beautiful ever screened.
The wonderfully beautiful and queenly Elis-
sa Landi portrays Mercia and Frederic.
March, Marcus. Claudette Colbert and
Charles Laughton give the highest support.
Elissa Landi rises to great heights, perhaps
the highest ever attained by an actress on
the screen, in her characterization of Mercia.
See this picture by all means. (For a more
detailed review of this picture, read the re-
view on page 4, column 1, of the February
15 issue). The picture cannot be recom-
mended too highly.

Monday and Tuesday, March 20-21—42nd
Street

Quite in contrast with its predecessor at
the local theater is 42nd Street, but it is
an excellent picture, in its class, that of
niusical comedies. It is a new start in movie
comedies for the movies, and leaves out the
endless chorus dancing scenes. It is a Cin-
derella story. Ruby Keeler, the heroine,
rises from the ranks to save the show. It
is highly pictorial. The times are good. This
picture is one of the best of musical com-
edies. Ruby Keeler, Bebe Daniels, George
Brent, Warner Baxter, and Dick Powell are
in the cast. ae

Those who saw the picture in Charlotte
say it is par excellent in its class.

TEN MATCHES ARRANGED.
FOR WILDCAT GOLF TEAM

(Continued from page 5)
Should the state tournament be held the
team will remain in Greensboro several days
more in order to compete.

The Georgia trip includes matches in At-
lanta with Emory University on May 8, and
with Georgia Tech on the following day. A
return match with Furman in Greenville,
S. C., closes the Southern trip as well as
the schedule.

The schedule:

March 24—Richmond University at Char-
lotte. :

March 29—Washington and Lee at Char-
lotte.

April 12—Furman at Charlotte.

April 24—Richmond at Richmond, Va.

April 26—Washington and Lee at Lex-
ington, Va.

April 27—North Carolina at Greensboro.
April 28—-Duke at Greensboro.

May 8—Emory University at Atlanta,
Georgia. -

May 9—Georgia Tech at Atlanta, Ga.
May 10—Furman at Greenville, S. C.

Tryouts Now On

his Freshman year; T. A. Bowles, Bob Greg-
ory, Harvey Morrison, Hartman Eager, and
Blair Gwynn.

DR. BOYD GIVES TALK
ON “WHAT’LL YOU BET?”

(Continued from page 1)

buy a friend something without matching
than to make a petty gamble for it. He told
of a very dear friend in Alabama who was
starting to hang his shingle over a door
ot—_his._office—where—his—father—and—grand-
father had reached unusual heights in the
legal profession, when he heard his mother
remark that four of her sons had attended
the University of Alabama, and that not one
of them had ever gambled. This reminded
the young lawyer of the many poker games
in which he had won all the money, and of
the numerous bets, which brought no few
dollars to his pocket. He was cut so deeply
by his mother’s statement that it hurt and
worried him very much. A few weks later
he won a knife at a bridge game, but his
conscience bothered him so much that he did
not accept it. He was cured by his mother
of the gambling.

In closing, Dr. Boyd spoke of the fascina-
tion of the stock market, and of the many
disastrous lessons it taught; lessons not to

being held on the Davidson course. Pre
liminary competition is among all the golf
hopefuls of the college.

Preliminary tryouts among all the golf
hopefuls of the college except the lettermen
is now being held on the Davidson course.
The three having lowest scores will com-
pete with the lettermen at the Charlotte
Country Club early next week in medal
play. The team to represent Davidson will
be composed of the four men who turn in
the lowest scores.

Lettermen who are expected to retain
their ratings again this year are Captain.
T. P. Caldwell, ex-Captain Jack Wagner,
and Mac Manson. Others who are expected
to offer stiff competition are J. P. Thomp-
son, who was a member of the varsity team

DR. GWYNN ADVANCES HIS
OPINION OF BANK HOLIDAY

Preliminary tryouts for the team are your money in this way.

(Continued from page 1)
and placed in bank vaults. After this is ac-
complished, currency can be issued in pro-
portion to the amount of gold on hand, thus
preventing a currency inflation.

The moratorium also points to a unified
system of banking management, according
to Dr. Gwynn. The Federal government in
the future will be the careful overseer of
all American banks. Bank failures, so prev-
alent in the last few years, will be reduced
to a negligible minimum. This may be free-
ly said after studying the Canadian bank-
ing system of which our new organization

is almost a duplicate. There has not been
a bank failure in Canada for over ten years.
Business and industrial leaders all over the
country evince their optimistic enthusiasm
when interviewed concerning President
Roosevelt’s proclamation. Dr. Gwynn lauds
America’s new chief for his fortitude along
with his executive ability and shares hope
with the rest of us on the prospects of a
“New Deal.”

JULIAN WEST CHOSEN
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT

(Continued from page 1)
first ballot Brown, Brenizer, Sanders, and
Murray were eliminated. Windham and
Cathey were eliminated on the second bal-
lot, and Pearce on the last.

Julian West is a member of the Phi Delta
Theta social fraternity and a member of
the Beaver Club. He was a vice-president
of the student body last year, and the year
preceding was secretary-treasurer of the
same. He was captain of the Freshman
football team and this year made his var-
sity letter in that sport. He is also a mem-
ber of the varsity baseball team, having
participated in the sport during his Fresh-
man year. West is also a member .of the
\Student Council.

“Skip” Brown is a member of the Beta
Theta Pi social fraternity and also a mem-
ber of the Beaver Club. He was president
of the Sophomore class this year and is a
member of the Student Council. He was cap-
tain of the Freshman tennis team last year
and is now a member of the varsity team.
He is a member of the Forensic Council
and is now on the varsity debating team.

A. J. Potter was captain of the Fresh-
man football team and made his. letter on
the varsity team this year. He also made
a letter in wrestling this. year, having made
a nimeral in the same last year.

Herman Dillard was a member of the
yearling basketball team this year, obtain-
ing Freshman high score honors in that
spcrt.

!

\

Le Cercle Francais
To Present Comedy

Le Cercle Francais, honorary fraternity,
which is composed of students who have at-
tained high scholastic averages in French,
is going to present “Dr. Knock” and the
well-known comedy, “L’Anglais Tel Qu’on
le Parle” (English as Spoken), at Queens-
Chicora College, on March 19th. “L’Anglais
Tel Qu’on le Parle” was written by Tristan
Bernard. It deals with the misadventures
of an ignorant hotel interpreter, and has
been a favorite on the Paris stage.

The following students will compose the
cast: Robert Coit, of Korea, the hotel inter-
preter; L. T. Newland, of Korea, will play
Julien Cicandel, a young Frenchman who
has eloped with Betty Hogson, played by
Madison Armistead, of Weldon, N. C.;
George Gullette, of Florence, Ala., will take
the role of hotel manageress; Hugh John-
son, of Wilson, N. C., has the part of Hog-
son, who comes to Paris in pursuit of his
daughter; Lanier Pratt, of Louisville, Ky.,
will be the commissioner of police, and D. _
K. Spencer, of Grassy Creek, N. C., the gen-
darme. Jack Williams, of Waycross, Ga.,
will play the part of the waiter. William
Flinn, of Atlanta, who is president of the
Davidson Le Cercle Francais, will serve as
stage manager. for each production.

Following the performance, the members
of the fraternity will be the guests at a
reception given by the French. Club of
Queens-Chicora, Beta Pi Theta.

CAT TALES

(Continued from page 5)
Caldwell, Jack Wagner and Mac Manson
are the lettermen trying out.

An climination tournament in tennis
began Monday afternoon, in order to
select_ranking players_to-represent Da-
vidson on the courts this spring. Only
three lettermen, Captain Charlie Myers,
Jim Halverstadt, and John Lafferty,
are back.

Chesterfields that comes

smokers enjoy.

Milder, Better Taste.

just enough Turkish tobacco in them ...a
spicy, aromatic flavor that’s much the same
to a cigarette as seasoning is to food.

For only by blending and cross-blending
the right amounts of mild Domestic tobaccos
with the right amount of Turkish can we
get the flavor and aroma that Chesterfield

Next time, ask for ‘‘The Cigarette that
Satisfies’’. . . you’ll get Chesterfields, with

~

i>

from having

Ciearcttes ik Foods "
need Sai

That’s the part Turkish
Tobaccos play in making
Chesterfields Loste Better

MOKERS notice a certain ‘‘touch’’ in

© 1933,-Liccerr & Myers Tosacco Co,

THEY'RE MILDER—
THEY TASTE BETTER
