DEBATES JUNIOR
SCHEDULED SPEAKING
FOR FUTURE NEXT WEEK

The Davidsonian

Glenda Lux Gbi Orta Libertas

Vol. XX

=

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 1, 1933

No. 20

Davidson Debating Team
to Meet New Opponents
on Coming Southern) Trip

Leiland McKeithan and Bob Smith
to Represent Varsity Group
on Tour

MEN TO LEAVE MARCH 3

John Richards Will Make Trip in Po-
sition of Alternate

Leiland McKeithan,’ Robert Smith, and
John Richards will leave Friday on.a de-
bating tour of the South. They are taking
the negative side of the question, Resolved:
That the war debts should be cancelled by
the United States.

On March 8rd they will debate against
the College of Charleston at Charleston,
S. C. This will be Davidson’s initial debate
with this college. On March 8th they will
debate against Rollins College at Winter
Park, Fla., for the first time. From there
they will go to the University of Florida
at Gainesville where they will debate on
March 9th. Davidson has debated the Uni-
versity of Florida for the past few years
with much success.

Leiland McKeithan is president of the
Forensic Council and a well-seasoned ora-
tor. Bob Smith was a member of last year’s
Freshman debating team and is making his
debut as a varsity debater. John Richards,
a Senior, is the alternate debater.

This will be the first of Davidson’s de-

“bates away from home. Upon their return,
the affirmative team will take a trip West.
On the first of April one of the teams will
go North.

Last Tuesday night Davidson represented
on the affirmative side by Charles Moore
and Hugh Hawkins debated on the same
war debt question against Birmingham-
Southern College of Birmingham, Alabama.
The debate was held in Chambers Audito-
rium and at the time of the publication of
The Davidsontan the results were not
known.

Two New Men Initiated _
Into Medical Fraternity

On Friday, November 24th, two men,
John H. Fitzgerald of Crewe, Va., and Wil-
liam M. Brown of Knoxville, Tenn., were
initiated into Pi Delta Alpha, medical fra-
ternity.

William M. Brown is a member of Phi
Gamma Delta social fraternity. John H.
Fitzgerald is a member of Sigma Phi Ep-
silon social fraternity, Eta Sigma Phi, Phi
Delta Alpha, wearer of numeral, varsity
track squad, and Eumenean Literary So-
ciety.

Pi Delta Alpha fraternity is composed
of students who have attained high schol-
astic averages, and who wish to continue
their study of medicine.

At the meeting on the twenty-fourth
James S. Wilson gave an interesting illus-
trated lecture on Leprosy. He illustrated by
means of slides many stages of leprosy;
also he showed how the people were treated
in the different stages of the disease. Wil-
son, whose father is a doctor in China, ob-
tained his slides from a colony of lepers.

Englishmen have established a record for
sobriety in thé last year. With the exception
of 1918, when millions of men were at war,
there are fewer cases of drunkenness than
at any other time in the nation’s modern
history.. They numbered only 42,300 as com-
pared with 188,900 in 1913.

Parades

According to a statement from C.
R. Wright, Cadet-Major of the David-
son! military unit, the parades from
now until the end of school will be
held on Wednesdays, instead of Mon-
days, as heretofore. Before each pa-
rade there will be physical exercises
similar to those given last Wednes-
day. The change, Major Wright said,
was made necessary by conflicts with
baseball and track schedules.

Dr.C. W. Davis Speaks
at Y.M.C.A. Vespers

“The young man who will become a lead-
er of the coming era must have a good
education, faith in God, and faith in the
possibilities of mankind,” stated Dr. C. W.
Davis, who spoke at the “Y” vespers last
Sunday night. Dr. Davis, formerly of At-
lanta, Ga., is now pastor of the First Pres-
byterian Church of Concord, N. C.

The service was led by Lyne Gamble,
who chose for his scripture the thirteenth
chapter of First Corinthians: “If I speak
with the tongues of men and angels but
have not love ... .” Prayers were offered
by Bill Johnson and Dan Currie, following
which a violin solo, “Song to the Evening
Star,” was rendered by Robert Orr. The
speaker was then introduced.

Dr. Davis, who chose for his subject,
“Leadership in an Advancing Age,” stated
that we of the present day are on the verge
of a greater and more advanced. era, and
that only those best equipped for service
along educational and religieus lines will
be able to enter into the activities of this
new period.

It was stated by the speaker that the
tendency of the present time is to discredit
leadership. The people of today have little
faith in our scientific leaders, and continue
to question the results of their applied sci-
ence. In order to illustrate his point, Dr.
Davis gave as an example the student of
astronomy, who, having been taught a cer-
tain theory concerning the planets, is soon
confronted with exactly opposite views,

coming as a result of further scientific re- |

search.
It was then pointed out that what ap-
(Continued on page 3)

College Students Help
in Social Welfare Work

?

Members of the Education 3 and Sociol-
ogy classes have had the opportunity for
the past month of doing work along lines
of social welfare.

At the present time there are 2,000 fami-
lies in Mecklenburg County with no means
of support or livelihood. The Department
of Public Welfare has certain funds for
the purpose of alleviating this situation;
but since it lacks workers, the Davidson
College students have been” co-operating
with the county officials.

The request for helpers was made by Mr.
M. M. Grey, Superintendent of the Depart-
ment, to Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Professor of
Education. Dr. Gwynn is in charge of the
Davidson end of this work, arranging days
on which different students can work, and
keeping in touch with Mr. Grey.

So far, groups have been sent out to
Charlotte, Cornelius,- and to the country
around Davidson. These groups endeavor to
determine which families need help the
most, and just how much help they need.
They also attempt to discover whether
there is any possibility for the head of the
family to secure a job of some sort. In
fact, this endeavor to raise a family from
a position of economic dependence to one
of independence is perhaps a more impor-
tant function of the Department of Public

(Continued on page 6)

New Members Taken in
by Gamma Sigma Epsilon

At the last meeting of the Gamma Sigma
Epsilon, chemical fraternity, there were
three new men initiated. Before a person
is taken into this fraternity he has to at-
tain a very high scholastic average in this
particular phase of work. The small num-
ber show that it is a select group of chem-
istry students.

‘The students initiated were Charles M.
Norfleet, Lewis M. Vickery, and Benjamin
Moore. Norfleet is from Winston-Salem. He
is a member of the “D” Club, “Quips and
Cranks” staff, varsity football, former pres-
ident of Sophomore class, and past secre-
tary and treasurer of the student body.
Lewis M. Vickery, who is from North
Wilkesboro, made his numerals in track,
and is now an assistant in physical educa-
tion. Benjamin L. Moore, from Pendleton,
S. C., was also initiated into this fraternity’
at the same meeting.

Claudel Medals

Dr. G. B. Watts, head of the French
department of Davidson College, has
received from M. Paul Claudel,
French Ambassador to the United
States, three bronze medals for pres-
entation to the three best students of
French in Davidson.

M. Claudel, dean of the corps of
Ambassadors in Washington, is wide-
ly known also for his great interest
in literature. He is one of the out-
standing contemporary French poets,
and one of the most distinguished
patrons of belles lettres in the world.
The medals which he has sent for
award to proficient students of
French in Davidson are of tasteful
design and of beautiful French work-
manship. They have already evoked
tremendous interest and enthusiasm
on the part of the Davidson student
body. The recipients of the Claudel
awards will be selected by the pyo-
fessors of French on the basis of
achievement in the study of French
language and literature.

French Plays Are Given _
Before Large Audience

of Appreciative Students

Performances Are Successfully Pre-
sented by Talented Players of
Both the French Groups

:

| oe
| CASTS SHOW MUCH TALENT

| ceepn Cee
| Le Cercle Francais Entertains L’Alli- |

ance Francaise of Converse
College

jhave been pleased at the presentation of
their respective plays last Firday night in
/Chambers Auditorium. The formetwriter’s
comedy, L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle, was
given by Davidson’s Le Cercle Francais,
and the third act of la Faree was presented
by L’Alliance Francaise, of Converse Col-
‘lege, of Spartanburg.

As to the ability of the Davidson cast,
the one best qualified to judge was doubt-
Dr. A. Vermont, of Converse, whose
|native tongue is French. He praised highly
the performance of the Davidson students
‘both from the point of view of histrionics
land diction.

less

“IT was surprised at and delighted with
the whole performance. I understood clear-
ly every word. And now you must all come
down to Spartanburg and return our visit,”
said the genial head of the Converse de-
partment of French.

The president of the Davidson» society,
Billy Flinn, opened the evening with a wel-
come address, and this was immediately
followed by the Davidson presentation.

(Continued on page 3)

Students Hear Talks by

Dean Baker on Business

Mr. John C. Baker, assistant dean of the
Business School of Harvard University, was
the speaker in the regular chapel service
last Monday morning. Mr. Baker also spoke
to several classes in business, political sci-
ence, history, and economics, and held a
number of interviews with students who
were planning to go into business school
soon. In the interviews he discussed en=
trance requirements and advised, the stu-
dents as to preparatory training.

In his talk in chapel and also to the classes
he showed the prospects of getting jobs at
the present time and pointed out where and
how these positions were obtainable. He
explained what the best jobs to go into
were and showed how to go about getting
the desired positions.

Mr. Baker stated that he believed that
there would be decided changes in the jobs
of the future’and gave as an example the
changes, in the banking laws. He heartily
advised students to remain at college at any
cost because preparation is one of the main
factors in today’s business.

Mr. Baker is well qualified to know the
facts of business in general, as he aided in
placing every graduate of the Harvard Busi-

ness School last year in paying positions.

Go Out During Week’

|

Last Sunday’s deputations were not es- |
pecially numerous, however the program
for next week, which starts tomorrow, will |
see a number of especialy important mis- |
sions sent out. |

Sunday, February 26, the only two depu- |
tations were the usual Sunday afternoon |
program put on at the Charlotte Y. M. C.
A., and a group sent to the Jackson Train-
ing School near Concord. Jerome ‘Clark |
and “Duck” Powell spoke to the boys’|
groups in Charlotte, while Harold Ostwalt, |
Gordon Green, and Avery Patton comprised |
the one to the Jackson Training School. |
Ostwalt made the talk, and Green, accom- |
panied by Patton, furnished the special

|
music, [

Starting Thursday, March 2nd, the Boys’ |
Work Department of the Charlotte Y. M.
C. A. is sponsoring a “Come Clean’ cam-!
paign in the vicinity of Charlotte, and it}
is calling on the Davidson “Y” to furnish |
the speakers. Thursday, seven speakers will |

' Both Tristan Bernard and the unknown,
author of la Farce de Maitre Pathelin would |

be asked to make the talks at twenty-six |
| public schools in Charlotte. Jerome Clark, |
| Bruce Peabody, and Jake Mackorell will |
| Speak at the grammar schools; John How- |
lard will make the talk at Tech High, and |
| Charlie Moore will speak at Alexander Gra- |
iham Junior High. |
|

Friday, March 3rd, the campaign will be- |
gin in the county schools. Sam Nicky will
speak at several county high schools. On
Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday,
speakers will be sent to various other rural

| schools.

Sunday, March 5th, will see several depu-
{tations go out. The first of these will go to
| (Continued on page 6)

Dr. Gwynn is Conductor
of First Fireside Forum

Under the auspices. ef the Davidson Y. M.

C. A. discussion) groups -—known as_ the
“Tireside Forum” are now being held to de-
jlate questions of current interest every
,other Friday night at 9 o'clock in the So-
cial Center. These are merely organized |

“bull sessions,” where all those present may
speak; but gonerally with a faculty member
to lead the Giseussions.

The first meeting was held last Friday |
night, at which time the subject for debate |
was “The Religious Approach to the Race
| Problem.” Dr. Price H. Gwynn, professor
|of sociology, was the leader. He opened by
| pointing out several passages of seripture
| which threw light on the subject. The main
| passages were: Luke 10:25-27, which is the
| story of the Good Samaritan; Acts 8:26-40,
| which is the story of Philip and the Ethi-
opian; and Acts 10, which is the story of
| Peter aud the Roman centurion. Dr. Gwynn
pointed out the fact that the New Testa-
ment is absolutely clear on the race ques-
tion, and that it is up to us to accept it as
| we find it.
| Questions were then read which had been
handed in through a box placed in the vesti-
bule of Chambers Building. The first of
these questions to be dealt with was: “What
is the negroes’ place in the world?” It was
pointed out that America or the United
States is the only country with the negro

(Continued on page 6)

Delta Phi Alpha to Hold
___ Next Meeting Thursday

Delta Phi Alpha, national honorary Ger-
man fraternity, will hold its regular meet-
ing Thursday evening at Dr. Guy R. Vowles’
residence.

Paul Brown will lead the program, the
first part of-which is to be~a~discussion
of “Grand Hotel.” This is a very interest-
ing subject and should bring many good
ideas from the members of the fraternity.
This will be followed by a consideration of
new members who will be chosen from the
best students of German in the various |
classes.

After the program, light refreshments
will be served by Dr. and Mrs. Vowles.

This fraternity plans to review a few of
the more recent German novels in the near
future, and to submit its reports to The Da-
vidsonian for publication. All students of
German should be interested in this an-

nouncement.

Many Deputations to Eight New Men Taken

Into Phi Beta Kappa
By N. C. Gamma Chapter
Nichol, McKeithan, Shackelford, Mc-
Bryde, McCallie, Howard, Thomp-

son, and Guerrant Chosen
by Group

NEW OFFICERS CHOSEN

Doctors C. M. Richards, P. H. Gwynn
and-E. F. Shewmake to Officiate
Next Year

Eight Seniors were selected last night
for membership by North Carolina Gamma
Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson
College. The men who were selected by
this, the oldest and most outstanding Greek
letter fraternity recognizing scholarship,

were Henry F. Nichol, Wilmington, N. C.;

W. A. Leland McKeithan, Aberdeen, N. C.;
Emmett W. Shackelford, Durham, N. C.;
Duncan D. McBryde, Linden, N. C.; Rob-
ert L. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; John
R. Howard, Atlanta, Ga.; John P. Thomp-
son, Davidson, N. C., and Edward O. Guer-
rant, Altadena, Calif.

At this same meeting faculty officers
were clected for the following year. They
were Dr. C. M. Richards, President; Dr.
Price H. Gwynn, Vice-President, and Dr.
Edwin F. Shewmake,-Secretary-Treasurer.
The retiring officers are Dr. G. B. Watts,
President, and Prof. A. Currie, Secretary-
Treasurer,

These elections are held once in the fall
and once in the spring. At the fall election
six Seniors were chosen. They were P. F.
Brown, W. F. Mulliss, D. M. McConnell, W.
EK. MeNair, Avery Patton and C. E. Bettis.

Three Dances Feature
Annual Junior Speaking
Presentation Next Week

Reeves Pope and Southernaires Will
Play for Affairs on March 10
and 11

MANY GIRLS’ EXPECTED

Members of Class Will Appear in Fig-
ure Friday Night

Final plans for Junior Speaking have
been completed and announced. The dates,
as has been previously announced, have
been set for March 10th and 11th. Arrange-
ments are being carried forth to combine
moderate prices with one of the best and
most successful sets of dances held this
year. The Davidson College “Southernaires”
will furnish music for the three dances. Un-
der the diregetion of Reeves Pope, this ten-
piece orchestra has developed into a very
pleasing and satisfactory harmonizing unit.

Tickets will go on sale March 1s nd
will remain at the price of $3.00 for the set
until March 8th. After this date, up to the
opening dance, the price will be $3.50. If
bought at the door, the prices will be $1.75,
$1.00, and $1.50, respectively, bringing the
total to $4.25.

The first dance on Friday night, from
ten until two, will be formal and is to be
featured by a figure composed of members
of the Junior class, who will be chosen by
the dance committee. An informal tea dance
will be held on Saturday afternoon during
the hours from 4:80 until 6:30. The feature
attraction of the dances will be the crown-
ing of the Queen of Love and Beauty Satur-
day night. Saturday evening dance will be
between the hours of nine and twelve.

(Continued on page 3).

. Honor Roll

An announcement of those making
the Honor Roll last semester has not
appeared, due to the change in the
grading-system:--As-a result the for-
mer standard is no longer effective in
naming those who shall compose the
list. Mr. Hengeveld has stated that
this list will be published as soon
as the faculty committee, which is

_working on what shall constitute the
new requirements, has made its re-
port.

