THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1933

DR. WILLIAMS SPEAKS
AT SUNDAY VESPERS

(Continued from page 1)
his joy in finding that he had passed! Often
he had prayed to God that he might, and in
only so doing did he succeed.

A young man was determined to get a job
on the police force of a neighboring city.
He carefully prepared himself for the exam-
ination, and went with his brother and sister
in their “rolls rough” to town. While on

the way they told him that a policeman had.

to be six feet tall, and as he measured but
five-eleven and a half; it seemed to destroy
his chances; nevertheless he remained deter-
mined to take the examination. On the way
the car hit a rough spot and the young man
bounced to the top sharply, knocking him
unconscious. Upon being revived, his brother
and sister were certain that he was in no
condition to take the examination; still he
persisted. The next day he was a member
of the police force, for the bump had made
him six feet with even an eighth of an inch
to spare!

One night out in the country, Dr. Williams
lay in bed, and as he lay there he listened
to a little locomotive trying with a heavy

load to make a grade. “I think I can, I think |

I can,” it said. Now the ‘katydid outside
of his window did not agree—it said, “I
know it can’t, I know it can’t.” The old
bullfrog in the pond boomed, “He can-nt, he
can-nt.” The rooster crowed from the barn-

little clock .on the wall ticked, “He won't,
he won't.” After a while the listener began
counting the trials of the engine; there must
have been twenty when he began. Thirty,
forty, fifty, fifty-one, fifty-two, fifty-three,
fifty-four times it tried; finally on its fifty-
fifth trial, it sounded, “I think I can, I can,
I can, I can,’—then, “I knew I could, I
knew I could, I knew I could.” Off into the
distance. Thus after failing seventy-four
times the gritty little locomotive succeeded.
It had more sand than he had thought. And
now. the katydid turned over_and died, the
old frog boomed, “I knew it, I knew it”;
the rooster crowed, “I knew he could, I
knew he could”; and the clock ticked, “He
did, he did.” Thus Dr. Williams showed how
people will change their manner when a
man succeeds.

Caleb and Joshua were the “I*can” type
and they succeeded with the aid of God.
Mere man with his puny frame can do little.
“T can do all things through Christ which
strengtheneth me,” Cor. 4:1. Thus it is seen
that through the aid of Christ we can do
all things.

Y. M. C. A. BEGINS OPEN
FORUMS FRIDAY NIGHT

(Continued from page 1)
These forums will be held only once in
every two weeks, and those of the students

|who may be interested will have an oppor-

tunity to attend these meetings and present

“water, Tampa, Orlando, and Deland.

yard, “C-C-C-Can’t, C-C-C-Can’t.” Even the

any topics which they would like to have

discussed. All students are cordially invited
te the meeting this Friday and to all subse-
quent forums. These discussions should form
an intereting program, and should offer a
great attraction to students interested in race
relations.

MR. B. HARGRAVES TO
BE VESPERS SPEAKER

course of his trip he made forty-one formal
speeches and a number of shorter ones, so
one can readily conclude that he had little, | r
if any, time: to. indulge in the good times able people and, as for the country, “It is a
and sports that aljound in this great winter fine place to spend either a few weeks or
resort state.

\3 lifetime.”

Commenting on his trip in chapel Thurs-
day morning, Dr. Lingle stated that the
Floridians were a very hospitable and amic-

(Continued from page !)
dinner speaker, and what he has to say is
usually—very—interesting—and—humorous,-He

SAK Za Gos 2 PaO AaB AB a
© Pavidson Theatre

makes many addresses at civic club conven-
tions and similar gatherings.

Besides his prominence as'a speaker, Mr.
Hargraves was for several years president
of the Southern Evangelical Association, and
also served for a while at head of-the Billy
Sunday Club in Chattanooga. To be able to
hear him is a rare privilege for the men of
Davidson, and there should be a large crowd
at vespers Sunday evening.

DR. LINGLE RETURNS
FROM SPEAKING TOUR

(Continued from page 1)
ducting of the Bible hour throughout the
Assembly.

Included in Dr, Lingle’s itinerary. were the
cities of Jacksonville, Winter Haven, Miami,
the Palrfi Beaches, Saint Petersburg, Clear-
Be-
sides these he visited numerous smaller ones
in the vicinity of the above. During the

t

WEDNESDAY

“EMPLOYEES’ ENTRANCE”

WARREN WILLIAM
THURSDAY

“WHISTLIN’ IN THE DARK”

JOHNNIE HINES
FRIDAY

“SAILOR BE GOOD”

JACK OAKIE
SATURDAY

“RIDE ’EM COWBOY”

MONDAY

“WAX MUSEUM”

FAY WRAY
TUESDAY

“INFERNAL MACHINE”

CHESTER MORRIS

f
F.. RSL PRE FEGF SE

4!

Rabbits and Radishes
Babies and Bouquets
Carrots and Cahhages

ILLUSION:

Right before your very eyes the manof magic draws
rabbits, vegetables, flowers, fruits—even babies—all
from an empty tub! What an astonishing fellow he is!

EXPLANATION:

The assorted rabbits, babies, carrots, cabbages, rib-
bons and other magical “props” are not created by
magic. The tub has a false bottom that is conveniently
displaced, and numberless wonderful things spring to
life in the magician’s nimble fingers. They do liter-
ally “spring” because they are made to compress into
the bottom of the tub, taking their natural shape as
the magician lifts them out.

Source: “Tricks and Illusions” by Will Goldston,
BE. P. Dutton & Co.

KEPT FRESH
IN THE WELDED
HUMIDOR PACK

Lrs FUN 10 BE FOOLED
... LTS MORE FUN To Kvow

Tricks are legitimate on the stage but not
_ in business. Here’s one that has been used
in cigarette advertising...the illusion that
blending is everything in a cigarette.

EXPLANATION: Blending is important...but
it makes a lot of difference what is blended.
Inferior tobaccos can be blended to cover
up their humble origin. But your taste soon
detects the trick.
The proper use of blending is to bring

out the full “round” flavor of mild, high-
grade tobaccos. It’s the costliness of the
tobaccos, as well as the blending, thatcounts.

—_. it is a fact, well known by

leaf tobacco experts, that
Camels are made from finer, MORE
EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other
popular brand.

Hundreds of thousands of dollars have
been spent by others in the attempt to
discover just how Camels are blended,
The blend és important.

But all the while Camel spends millions
more for choice tobaccos...to insure your
enjoyment.

Light up a Camel. Relax, while the deli-
cate blue smoke floats about you. Enjoy
to the.full the pleasure that comes from
costlier tobaccos.

Keep Camels always handy...in the air-
tight, welded Humidor Pack.

NO TRICKS
-- JUST COSTLIER
TOBACCOS

IN A MATCHLESS BLEND

