THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1933

SPRING SPORTS
PRACTICES
BEGIN THIS WEEK

THE SPORTS PARADE

TRACK MEN ENTER
SOUTHERN CONFERENCE
INDOOR MEET

.

We Davidson students owe Captain Nor-
ton G. Pritchett a debt of gratitude for
bringing the North Carolina junior college
tournament here at no extra expense to

the students: Belmont Abbey had_ the
smoothest working team in the tournament
but the skill of the Abbey boys could not
compete with the uncanny .shooting of the
tall Wingate lads. : ;

Flake Laird, varsity basketball and base-
ball coach, presented the championship, cup
to Captain Coble, of the winning Wingate
team, Saturday night after the final game.

By defeating Lynchburg College in
the final game of the season, Davidson
brought an otherwise “unfavorable sea-
son” to a close in a pleasing manner,
with a 37-33 victory over the Virgin-
ians. Captain Bruce Peabody, Jack
Wagner, Fred Dickerson, and Harry
Boucher played their last°game on the
courts for Davidson. :

With only inter-class basketball linger-
ing over from the winter sports program,
candidates have begun practice for spring
athletics. Track workouts began last week,
and members of the varsity and freshman
teams will compete in the non-conference
events at Chapel Hill this Saturday. Tennis
and golf candidates started out this week,
and both varsity and freshman baseball
hopefuls begin to loosen up this afternoon.
In spring football, candidates will continue
to go out for a few more days.

The Wildcat wrestlers tied Carolina
last Saturday, to close their season with
a .500 percentage. Two victories, over
Duke and V. P.-I., two defeats, at the
hands of Franklin-Marshall and Wash-
ington and Lee, and the Carolina. tie
gave the grapplers an even break for
the first time in several years. 4

To Dick Whitfield goes the credit for
gaining a tie for Davidson. The Davidson
heavyweight was matched against Captain
Idol, who has not lost a match for Caro-
lina in his three years at the school, ‘and
who had won five straight matches by falls
this year. Whitfield refused to be pinned
and Idol had to be content with a time ad-
vantage, which failed to bring victory to
the Tar Heels.

My Greatest Thrill

As Told by Charlie Pearce |

My greatest thrill occurred in the Wake
Forest game which was played on Richard-
son Field before a crowd of approximate-
ly 8,000 spectators this fall. We had not
met the Deacons on home soil since I have
been in school here, and we had not licked
them since 1920. It happened to be the last
game of the season and as I was a senior, |
it was my last game of college football. |

At the beginning of the second half Wake |
Forest kicked off to us and I received the |
ball on about our own 15-yard line. Inter-
ference formed quickly in front of me and
behind it I ran to about the 50-yard line.
Here I suddenly realized that there was |
practically a clear field for me. There were
two men, whose names I do not know, who
I knew might give me trouble, but by some
chance I slipped around them. Neither at-
tempted a tackle but were close on my heels
until I crossed the goal.

Although the play was called back be-
cause of a new rule, that went into effect

this year, which said that five men of the
’ receiving team on a kickoff had.to be in-
side the 45-yard line, it was the greatest
thrill I ever experienced in football. Later
in the same game I was again fortunate in
intercepting a pass and scoring a touch-
down, but the former run was the more
thrilling.

‘| afternoon,

WINGATE WINS CAGE TOURNAMENT

Defeats Belmont Abbey
43-38 For Junior Title

Captain Coble Scores 17 Points to
Lead Rangy Wingate Team to
‘Victory

With a team of six-footers shooting. from

‘all angles the Wingate Junior College quint

battled its way through to the finals of the
North Carolina junior college basketball
tourney held at Davidson College last Fri-
day and Saturday, and defeated Belmont
Abbey 43 to 38 for the title. The tourna-
ment ran true to form, with Wingate the
favorite, winning out, and Belmont going
to the finals according to pre-tournament
calculations.

Led by the lanky Coble, who garnered
17 points in the final imbroglio, the Wingate
boys turned in an impressive victory over
the Abbey. The boys from down Monroe
way showed a brilliant shooting attack in
winning the championship.

Wingate took an early lead, and ’°was
ahead 9 to 5 at the end of the initial canto,
but the Abbeys, with Cantwell’s eye on the
basket, rallied, and were holding a 20 to 11
lead at the intermission. However, .the
Wingate attack started functioning like an
eight-day clock in the third frame, and the
willowy lads ran wild to score 22 points,
going into a 33 to 29 lead at this point.
The two teams played on fairly even terms
in-the-final_period with Wingate coming out
on top, 43 to 38.

In the semi-finals, played on Saturday
the ultimate winners tripped
Boiling Springs Junior College, 43 to 29, in
decisive fashion. York was the big’ gun in
the. Wingate attack, scoring 17 points.
Leonard was high for Boiling Springs with
twelve. The outcome of this game was never
in doubt, the tall boys from Monroe hold-
ing a commanding position all the way.

In the other semi-final contest Belmont
Abbey played good basketball to down the
Lees-McRae quintet, 37 to 28. The Abbeys
opened like a house ‘afire, but soon slowed
up as the boys in Gold and Green hit their
stride, but in spite of a determined rally,
they bowed before a superior Belmont at-
tack. :

In the opening round Wingate drew the
only bye of the tournament, and Mars Hill
and Boiling Springs met in the opening
game. Staging a fine comeback after trail-
ing in the early part of the game, Boiling
Springs decisively defeated Mars Hill, 39 to
27, to eliminate them from further compe-
tition.

In the first night fracas Lees-McRae,
after playing Weaver on fairly even terms
during the first quarter, gradually drew
ahead to win at 43 to 34. The two pivot
men, Greene of Lees-McRae, and Henson of
Weaver, provided the fireworks in the bar-
rage on the basket, taking in nineteen
points apiece.

In the last game of the first round Bel-
mont- Abbey routed a team from Ruther-
ford Junior College to win their way into
the semi-finals. The Belinont boys played a
suptrior brand of ball and emerged from
the game on the long end of a 37 to 23
count.

The summaries:

FINALS
Wingate (43) Position (38) B. Abbey
Coble (17) F. (9) Ware
| Yorke (4) F. (16) Cantwell
Harrington (7) C. (5) Dengate
Gaddy (12) G. (5) Feldman
Lane G. (3) Davis

Scoring substitutes—Wingate: Smith (3).
(Continued on page 6)

Beginning with this issue a series of
interviews of senior members of Da-
vidson’s 1932 football team willbe run
in this column. The purpose of these
interviews will be to put before our
readers the greatest thrill experienced
by these players in their college grid-
iron career.

This week we present Charlie Pearce, of
Plant City, Fla., who played halfback for
the past two years. Pearce was selected re-
cently as one of the five outstanding ath-
letes in the two Carolinas in 1932, in a poll
conducted by the Charlotte Observer. Pearce
gained his recognition chiefly through his
baseball and football exploits.

By the Observer poll, Bill “Sleepy”
Goodson, former Davidson basketball
and baseball star from Lincolnton, N.
C., who graduated in 1931, was voted

' the best athlete in North and South
Carolina.

Davidson Wins Last Game
From Lynchburg College

The Davidson quint closed the 1933 bas-
ketball campaign last Wednesday night in
the local gym by defeating Lynchburg Col-
lege, 37 to 32. The game was Davidson’s
from the start, the Lynchburgers never tak-
ing the lead, although they threatened to
several times.

Four Wildcat stars, Boucher, Wagner,
Dickerson, and Captain Peabody, donned the
Davidson uniform for the last time. Pea-
body turned in his usual stellar perform-
ance, and Wagner, Dickgvgon and Boucher
played consistent ball, all of them being im-
portant factors in the victory over the Red
and Gray. é

Courtney Ross, Wildcat forward, was
high scorer of the evening, garnering 14
points. Harris secured nine counters dur-
ing the game. The brilliant passing of
Young was the outstanding point in the at-
tack of the lads from the Hill City.

Coach. Laird used a bit of strategy in
changing pivot men every third jump, Wag-
ner, hess, and Holland all performing in
this position during the game. This aj-
peared to smooth out some rough spots in
the Davidson attack, and the team clicked
better than it had done previously during
the season. é

At the beginning of the fray, led by Har-
ris, Ross, and Captain Peabody, the ’Cats
ran up a comfortable lead, but the Hornets
rallied strongly in the second canto, and
at one time the score stood at 31-30, with
the Wildcats but a single point in the lead.
However, field goals by Peabody and, Ross
definitely settled the issue, and brought Da-
vidson’s basketball season to a close with
a well-earned victory.

Summary:

Lynchburg (32) Position (37) Davidson
Viebel (11) F. (9) Harris
3arnum (14) F. (14) Ross
Rosenberg (1) C. : Wagner
Toung (1) G. ~ (8) Peabody
‘runkey (2) G. (6) Dickerson

Substitutes—Lynchburg: Eckstein (2),
Hart; Davidson: Boucher, Holland, Lafferty,
and Yelverton.

Officials—Referee: Hackney (North Caro-
lina); Umpire: Touhey (Colorado).

Sophomore Cagemen
Win Scoring Laurels

By averaging nearly six points per game,
Charlie Harris, star Sophomore forward,
won first place in individual scoring among
members of the Davidson basketball team
for the 1933 season. Harris scored a total
of 113 points to lead his teammates.

Fred Dickerson, with 95 points, was in
second place. Captain Bruce Peabody was
third was 89, and Courtney Ross was next
with 86 points. These four were the only
riembers of the team to get above the 50
mark in scoring, and themselves accounted
for more than seven-tenths of the total
points scored by the Wildcats.

Courtney Ross, also a Sophomore, held
first honors in scoring field goals, with an
even forty. He scored seven in the Lynch-
burg game to move ahead of Harris, who
was a close second with 39. Dickerson was
third in the field goals with 31, and Pea-
body was fourth with 27.

First honors in foul throws went to Cap-
tain Peabody, who made 35 out of 46 tries
good. Mack Holland had the next best per-
centage, making thirteen of twenty good
for points. Harris and Dickerson each made
more foul goals than Holland, but a great
number of chances reduced their percent-
ages.

The Wildcats were outscored 176 points
by their opponents, who chalked up 693
points to Davidson’s”508.

The-individual scoring:

Player: G. FG. FT-Tries TP.
Harris R 19. 39 35-59 113
Dickerson 18 31 33-60 95
Peabody (c) -...19 27 85-46 89
Ross ... S740 6-12 86
Lafferty Sal ah) 12-26 42
Holland 19 14 13-20 41
Wagner 15 a7 6-16 20
Boucher - soerorens | 5 7-14 17
Wiest. ea 8 2 1-7 5

Totals-5. = 180 148-260 508

Games won: 4; games lost: 15. Total

‘points scored by opponents: 684.

Wildcat Grapplers End
Season With 14-14 Tie

Davidson Ties Meet When Captain
Idol Gains Only Time Advantage
Over Whitfield

The Davidson Wildcat grapplers came
from behind after a bad start to tie Caro-
lina 14-14 in the meet held at Chapel Hill
last Saturday afternoon. This was David-
son’s last meet and also Carolina’s last be-
fore the Southern Conference tournament.

The Carolina matment started off fast by
getting time decisions over the first two
Davidson lightweights. In the fourth match
it seemed like a sure victory for Carolina
when Hiller pinned Griffith with a crotch
hold. However, Sprunt came through with
a time decision over Davis and after Grif-
fith’s defeat Davidson won three consecu-
tive matches which gave the Wildcats a
14-11 lead. With a three-point lead just be-
fore the last match, Whitfield met Captain
Idol, Carolina’s brilliant heavyweight, in
the-unlimited:

This match proved to be the thriller of
the entire card. Although Whitfield out-
weighed Idol thirty pounds, he was matched
by one of the best wrestlers in the South.
For the five previous meets Idol had suc-
ceeded in pinning his opponent each time
and Whitfield proved to be the first that
Idol couldn’t pin. Thus, Whitfield, by pre-
venting a fall, brought the score to a four-
teen-all instead of a victory for Carolina.
With seconds left to go, Idol came very
near pinning Whitfield, but big “Whit”
proved to be too much and Idol had to be
satisfied with a time decision.

In the bantamweight, Thad Hussey, 115
pounds, won a time decision of 7:55 minutes
over Harris. This was Harris’ first match
and he did very well considering this.

Jenkins and Mathewson, 125-pound class,
put on one of the best bouts of the after-
noon. Jenkins started out good but finally
gave in and lost by 7:35 minutes time ad-
vantage.

Walter Sprunt proved his worth by de-
feating Davis in the 135-pound class by a
3:08 minutes decision. This was Sprunt’s
second varsity match and he kept his slate
clean with two victories. Hiller, Carolina,
in the 145-pound class, defeated Griffith by
a fall. Quarterman defeated Spell in a hard
fought bout by a 2:57 minutes time deci-
sion.

Captain Ben Taylor, in his farewell var-
sity bout, gained a fall over Pickett in 4:28
minutes. Taylor displayed great form in
his last bout as he ‘had in this threé pre-
vious”seasons of wrestling. His place and
also Whitfield’s will be hard to fill next year.

(Continued on page 6)

Seniors Top Intra-Mural
League With Three Wins

By winning three games in a row, with-
out suffering a defeat, the Seniors have
gone into-a long lead in the inter-class bas-
ketball tournament. The Juniors, Sopho-
mores, and Freshmen follow in the order
named. The standings of the teams follow:

Team Won Lost Pet.
Seniors 8 0 1.000
Juniors 2 1 -667
Sophomores ‘towel 2 333
Freshmen 0 3 .000

Hach team has three more engagements,
each: one meeting each of the other three
in return games.

The Seniors opened the tournament by
overwhelming the yearlings 45 to 7. Buck
Mills led the attack with 20 points in his
scoring column. The Fresh were outclassed
from the start, and Captain Andy Little’s
boys romped to an easy victory.

The Juniors and the Sophomores played
in a game marked by the lack of scoring
on the part of both teams, and the Juniors
won, 22 to 18. Reid léd the attack of the
winners with 12 points, while Byerly was
outstanding for the Sophomores.

The Seniors continued their victorious
march with a triumph at the expense of
the Sophomores, 18 to 6. Mills again broke
into the limelight, scoring 12 points. No
Sophomore was able to garner more than
one field goal during the one-sided contest.

With Fred, Smyre leading the way, the
Juniors decisively defeated the Freshmen,
31 to 15. The fast-breaking Smyre scored
12 points to lead his mates to victory. The
Fresh were never in it, and the Juniors were
merely a superior aggregation.

The Seniors gave the Juniors their ini-
tial setback, by putting-them down 33 to
11. Mills again furnished the thrills to the
gallery with his concentrated attack on the |
basket which netted him 20 points. Smyre
led the Juniors with 10 counters.

In the last game to date the Sophs put
down the Fresh 24 to 15. Elvery got in a
sharp-shooting mood, and ran up 15 points
that gave his mates victory over the new
men. |

The tournament, under the supervision
of Heath Whittle, director of intramural
athletics, has reached the half-way mark,
and the Seniors have a commanding lead
at this point.

Judge Harlan F. Stone, justice of the
United States Supreme Court, has been
elected a member of the board of trustees
of Amherst College. Justice Stone gradu-
ated from Amherst in 1894 and has received
honorary degrees from Amherst, Yale, Co-
lumbia, Williams, George Washington, Har-
vard and Syracuse universities and colleges.

Officials’ All-Junior College Teams

FIRST TEAM Pos. SECOND TEAM
Cantwell, Belmont F. _......... York, Wingate
Coble, Wingate flee) ah _....Mauney, Boiling Springs
Henson, Weaver 220; Greene, Lees-McRae
Feldman, Belmont . Ge ~Sigmon, Lees-McRae
Gaddy, Wingate G. : _.. Doris, Belmont

Three of the players, Cantwell, Feldman, “and Coble, were unanimous choices
on the All-North Carolina junior college team, picked by officials at the tournament

sponsored by Davidson College here last Friday and Saturday.
Reatnaient Coaches Flake Laird and Gene McEver, Refer-

Pritchett, director of the

Captain Norton G.

ees Wade Ison and George Touhey, and George Baily, basketball manager, made the

selections.

Made for the

MAC WELDOT
SPORT SWEATER

For Golf, Tennis and Campus Wear

$1.00

IDEU'S
DAVIDSON
SHOP

e

College Man

