THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1933

The Bookshelf

Troilus and Cressida. By Geoffrey Chaucer.

Modern version by George Phillip Krapp

Random House Publishers.

Translations of authors may be divided
into three general classes. The first group,
called literal, is encountered in its purest
state among school boys who attempt to
unravel passages in Caesar's Gallic Wars.
The second group, or “free” interprets, ¢x-
“hibits its grotesque but characteristic” form
in Pope’s version of Homer. This work, the
worst of Pope’s idiotic poetry, is nothing
more nor less than blatantly jazzed doggerel,
which clangs along like tin cans dragged
ever cobblestones. The third group is made
up of those artisans who are able to convey
the beauty and» feeling present in an original
to a new language without appreciable loss.

Of course, the translation of Chaucer into
English is not nearly as difficult as the trans-
lation of Greek or Latin authors. And yet
Chaucer's language presented problems that
greatly influenced the trend of the modern
version. In the first place, it gave little lati-
tude as far as substituting new words for
those of the original text. Secondly, because
it possessed certain inflexional characteris-
tics, it demanded that the whole sentence
be recast in order to follow the Chaucerian
metric form. Dr. Krapp overcame these
difficulties with-apparent ease and confined
himself strictly to the limits set by Chaucer's
stanza structure. He followed Chaucer idea
for idea as far as possible and only when
it was absolutely unavoidable did he make

conservative shifts in sentence arrange-
ment. I carefully compared the first fifty
pages of the original with those of the

translation and was quite surprised at the
marvelous fidelity with which Dr. Krapp
followed Chaucer even to the minutest de-
tails.

The poem itself that
Chaucer living in the middle agescould write
a story with a modern feeling expressed in
it. Yet Chaucer did it in a way that
rather breath-taking. His story of Troilus
and Cressida is as modern as ‘today's head-
lines in the New York Times, as a concert

is a surprise in

1s

by Propkokieff, as a statue by Gaudier
Breszeka, or as a design Sy Norman Bel
Geddes. ‘ eid

The author takes a legend of Troy, in-
vests it with life, colonizes it with Arthurian
knights and whom he dresses in
Grecian garb, indiscriminately gives them
gods recruited from the ranks of heathen
mythology and Christian tradition—the chief

ladies,

U-PUSH-EMS ©
New Rates
at :
M. P. Henderson’s
Gulf Station
+

of whom is Saint Venus—and calls forth a
hero and heroine.

The story opens during the seige of Troy
shortly before the wooden horse was to
neigh in front of the city gates. Cressia, a
lady of unquestionable purity, has unwitting-
ly snared Troilus, Hector’s brother, by means
of her beauty and her uncle Pandar'’s. cun-
ning. One night, while at a wild gin party
given by Helen of Troy, Cressida and Troilus
begin to take each other quite seriously.
The next day it was only with greatest dif-
ficulty that they were able to keep scandal
out of the Trojan Daity Tabtoid—-Then-mis=
fortune began to come their way. For very
definite reasons, Cressida had to go visit the
| Grecian army at its camp. She and Troilus
‘almost set an example for Romeo and Juliet
;of a later day. However, the author kept
‘them from and “Cressida able
to go to the Greeks. While she was in the
camp, an eternal pentangle developed. To
fully grasp the situation from this point to
the end of the book, requires a reading of
the work itself as a great deal of beauty and
savor is lost in the condensation. The lines
of this poem are sparkling with subtle wit
and Chaucer seeks opportunities to ¢xpose
some ‘one to ridicule and satire.

suicide was

Finally, in regard to the mechanical fea-
tures of the book, it is one of the most
tastefully designed and executed works that
I have Each page has a marginal
pictorial comment, done in a conventional
manner, which reminds one of rare illum-
inated manuscripts. _The format gives an
air of exclusiveness and sedate beauty that
is quite pleasing to a connoisseur of good

books.

seen,

May I state again that the freshness and
vitality of the work makes it well worth
reading. :

GORDON R. WOOD.

Kappa Sigmas Go to
Tournament Finals

“The Kappa Sigs advanced to the finals in
the inter-fraternity basketball tournament
Ly defeating the Kappa Alphs 31 to 9 in
a loosely played game Monday night. The
contest was the first game in the tri-finals
of the tournament. A bye in the semi-finals

moves the winners to the finals,

Billy Ravenel led the Kappa Sigs to vic-
tory by scoring cight points, one less than
the losers’ total score,

In the last two preliminary games the
Betas and-the Pikas won one-sided victories
over the T. U. O.’s and the Pi Kappa Phis
respectively. The Betas were closely pressed
during the first half of their game with the

41, U._O.'s, but the pace set by Cochran and

Dolan of the losers could not cope with the
brilliant playing of Smyre and Halverstadt,
and the Betas pulled away to a 21-9 victory.

The Pika team, composed of former high
school basketball stars, was too much for
the Pi Kappa Phis and they kept. posses-
sion of the ball nearty atthe game to pile
up 53 points to 3 for the losers, Buck Mills
was easily the star of the game, scoring

TOBACCOS
_ STUDENT

ti

FOUNTAIN SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON

NEXT DOOR TO POSTOFFICE

more than 30 points himself.

‘CANDY
SUPPLIES

¢

v

GEO. W. LAPITZ
Factory Representative

TAILORING DISPLAY at the Soda Shop
EVERY THURSDAY

Star Direct Tailors - $23.50 Up |

*

Silver Screen

Wednesday, Feb. 8—Infernal Machine—
(Fox)

This picture, despite what the title might
indicate, is full of fun and excitement. Ches-
ter Morris and the beautiful Genevieve Tobin
give a good comedy romance with thrills
abundant and laughs a-plenty. 1

Thursday,” Feb. 9—Luxury Liner—(Para-
mount) —

The scene of Luxury Liner is laid in the
hospital of a trans-Atlantic liner. It is a
picture of outcasts in‘life hell-bound. George
Prent and the alluring Zita Johann furnish
the leads and are ably supported by Vivenne
Osborne, Alice White, and Verra Teasdale.

Friday, Feb, 10—Parachute Jumper—
(Warner)

This is the story of two navy fliers who
were discharged from the service for joy
riding. They go to Mexico, where they be-
come involved with dope smugglers. Plenty
of punch, no dull moments, and amusing
and snappy dialogue are provided by Doug-
las Fairbanks, Jr., Leo Carillo, Bette Davis,
and Frank McHugh.

Monday, Feb. 13—Face in the Sky—
(Warner)

Face in the Sky is the story of the ro-
mance a sign painter. It picture
all lovers will love. It is the fight of a sign
painter, who would be an artist, to gain
recognition. It is a picture suited to Spen-
cer Tracy, that is, rough, downright, and
forthright. Marion Nixon has the feminine
lead, ~The awkward, lovable Stuart Erwin
adds comedy to the picture.

of is a

Tuesday, Feb. 14—Goldie Gets Alone—
(Warner)

The romance of a girl determined to get
into the movies, and of a boy who will do
anything to win her. The glamorous Lily
Damita hitch-hikes her way across the coun-
try. She wins a beauty contest and foils
the attempt of the manager to the
money she won, then heads for Hollywood.

sted

advantage of a break, gets in, and makes
good, The loyal boy friend and she live
happily forever afterward. Lily Damita is
ably supported by Charles Morton and Sam
Hardy. The acting of Lily Damita is excel-
lent.

Davidson Five and
Ten Years Ago

(Briefs of articles published in “The
Davidsonian” five ago and. ten
years ago.)

years

5 YEARS HAVE ELAPSED

The. front page contains a sketch of the
“New Chambers,” work on which will begin
immediately, it being expected that it will
be completed by January 1, 1929.

Davidson wrestlers defeat team
N. C. in thrilling match. sae

Y. M. C. A. completes plans for the sec-
ond series of the vocational guidance meet-
ings, Drs. Lacy and Weisiger to lead first
of six meetings.

from 'U.

Basketball. team defeats Wofford and
Elon.
Dr. Guy Richard Vowles, head of Ger-

man department, publishes his German text-
book which is received’ with much applause.
“Sleepy” Goodson defeats Dean Rush for
captaincy of Freshman basketball team.
Wildcats leave for trip of five cage games.
Wrestling team departs for invasion
Virginia.
The second issue of the “Chameleon” is

of

At first-she.failsto.make-good,..but taking.

'
ready for print and. will appear on the cam-
pus shortly.

Dr. Oren
vespers.

Dr. Greene of Columbia Theological Sem-
inary to lead spring services.

Prof. H.°T. Lilley speaks to Davidsonian
reporters, g

Moore of Charlotte leads “Y”

10 YEARS HAVE ELAPSED
Coach Monk Younger of V. P. I. chosen
head coach at Davidson. Coach
Younger, now assistant at V. P. L, is an’ old
Davidson man._He will succeed the present
Coach Gray.

The Phi Beta Kappa Chapter will be in-
stalled here on Thursday, March Ist, by a
deputation from U.N. C.

Davidson Minstrels leave for trip through
the, Carolinas,

Recent “Y" vespers have been conducted
by Rev. Tom Gillespie, Mr. J. B. Ivey, and
Rev. A. W. Crawford.

Standard college ring is decided upon by
Junior class.

Davidson men install chapter of Gamma
Sigma Epsilon at Johns Hopkins University.

Students extinguish a fire which originated
in the home of Dr. “Jerry” McConnell.

Davidson basketeers defeat Charlotte “Y”
twice, Concord “Y” and N. C. State College.
This string of victories is due largely to
Red Laird, Warhoss Mauze and Pat Craw-
ford.

as

new

Intercollegiate Press

(Continued from page 3)

Detroit—(I1P)—How hard is it on a foot-
ball player to watch all the games from the
bench ?

Johnny Metras, captain of the University
of Detroit gridders can answer this. For
two weeks, or during two games, he was
on the bench with a minor injury. In that
time he lost He'd’ rather

play, he says.

twelve pounds.

Minneapolis—({P)—The — University — of
Minnesota Daily has fallen in line with those
college newspapers of the country which
this vear-have begun to suggest open and

Players for the work they do for their col-
leges.

“Coaches are shifted team
has a losing streak,” says the Daily. “Every-
thing is done to keep the team winning and
maintain gate receipts.

“The most important cog in the money-
making machine is the football player, and
his only return is ‘that tired aching feeling’
land a lot of slush about ‘fighting for the
dear old alma mater.’ Why not pay the de-
serving workers?”

as soon as a

Columbus, O—(P)—There will) be no
more gentle cows elected beauty queen of
the Ohio State University campus by face-
tious men students. Nor will fraternity poli-
tics make the annual beauty queen clection
a farce.

This year, and for years to come, accord-
ing to plans, the usual student vote on the
most beautiful co-ed will be abandoned, and
instead the campus queen will be selected
by four Columbus men acting as judges.
The girl selected will be “the loveliest and
most beautiful co-ed.” :

Several ago crooked balloting
the university resulted in the election
Madine Ormsby, a prize cow, as the beauty
queen,

at
at

years

Cambridge, Mass.—(IP)—A_ development
in high-speed photography at the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology has resulted
in the ability to decide, at last, how quick
is “quick as a wink.”

Photographs at the rate of 4,000 a second,

with exposures ranging from one-hundred

B. O. RAVENEL
Student Representative

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Richmond, Virginia _
B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., President

A graduate of Davidson and of Union studying abroad writes:

“There are able scholars here whose books are known and read
all over the religious world. None of them can surpass some of our
Professors at Union as teachers, and none of them can challenge a
student to joyous, practical Christianity as did our professors there.”

CHARLOTTE

LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE

Famous for Good Waffles
and Sandwiches

DAVIDSON

ONVENIENT

Come by---every student does

sooner or later.

More than 50,000 hair cuts for
students in our 20 years, is our record

of SERVICE.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

acknowledged policies of paying football |.

thousandth to five-hundred thousandth of a
second, have been made with the new de-
vice, an electrical circuit which produces
light 6f great intensity.

The light produced is equal to the con-
centrated light of 40,000 ordinary 50-watt
bulbs,

To the scientist the new development of-
fers opportunities for extraordinary study
of motion in liquids and gases.

Snapshots of the human eye by the in-
vention that the average wink fe-
quires one-fortieth of a second.

show

New
instead of three-hour courses
whose high school training seemed to be
inadequate has been advocated at Rutgers
University by Dean Walter T. Marvin as a
means of equalizing the education of the
university’s students,

Brunswick, N. J.—(1P)—Five-hour
for freshmen

The dean said the purpose of the proposed
system would. be to enable instructors to
proceed more slowly and review the founda-
tions of the subjects for students who re-
quired more complete preparation. Stu-
dents in both the three and five-hour courses
would study for the same achievements and
use the same textbooks, Dean Marvin said

In an article written for the Daily Prince- ,
tonian, undergraduate newspaper at Prince-
ton University, Newton D. Baker, former
secretary of war, asserted that the economic
depression will bring about a revaluation of
the merits of college training. Said he:
“We are all dispensing with luxuries and

_ it Gs not unlikely that the value of col-
lege training will be reweighed and higher
education supported only so far as it seems
to justify itself.”

Scientists have never yet discovered finally
why it is that the Pacific Ocean is approxi-
mately one and seven-tenths feet higher
than the Atlantic Ocean on either side of
the American coast. It is believed by some,
however, that the difference is due to the
fact that the Pacific Ocean, having ‘a slight-
ly different salt content, is lighter than the
Atlantic. In other because the At-
lantic has denser water, gravity’s pull upon
if is greater.

words

Ninety-three letters of Charles Darwin,
hitherto unpublished, are included in a col-
lection of rare books and manuscripts
brought to this country recently by Gabriel
Wells, American book and manuscript col-
lector,

The forerunner of the modern newspaper,
a marble slab on which news of the day
was carved and posted in the forum, has
been unearthed at the mouth of the Tiber
River in Italy by a Professor Calza.

Professor H, L. Maleolm of Pompano,
Fla., recently climbed to the tops of sixteen
mountains in the Adirondacks in one day.

Gifts and legacies totalling $1,781,473.28
have been received by the Massachusetts

Institute of Technology in the last school
year.

A four-year task has been completed by
the United States Geographic Board which
has just issued a new set of names for for-
eign geographic objects, such as cities,
countries, rivers and the like. The board
the official American spelling for
these foreign localities, and its report in-
cludes some 2,500 names in all parts of the
world.

decides

“A book that is perfect in its own kind,”
is the recipe for_a best seller provided re-
cently by Frank Swinnerton, English author,
in an article written for Knopf.

“American education has failed to produce
outstanding leaders. Because so much time
has been consumed in lifting masses of aver-
age students to a somewhat higher level of
culture, it has been impossible to supply the
foundations necessary to build character for
leadership,” Dr, Cloyd Heck Marvin, presi-
dent of George Washington University, told
his faculty recently. ;

Dr. Gerald B. Webb of Colorado Springs.
nationally known authority on lung diseases,
recently predicted that within five years
tuberculosis would be a minor disease in this
country. He said the disease seems to be
dying out in this country.

The Rutgers University Liberal Club is
considering opening a co-operative book
store to undersell the privately owned book
stores on the campus,

High Class Work at Economical Prices

MARTIN BROS.’
SHOE SHOP
