THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1933

5
aa THE SPORTS PARADE Ee ae
Ried Nadel) Freshman Track Team Wins aie

Issued by-Managers

Varsity Schedule—Begins—With—Ca-
tawba Nine on Home Ground

George Neal, varsity baseball manager,
and Ansley Watson, manager of the Fresh-
man team, made public the schedules of
their teams for the 1933 season last Mon-
day. Outstanding among the announcements
ik appears to be the fact that the yearling
‘schedule is decidedly shorter than that of
; last season.

The season officially opens for the var-
sity on March 30, with Catawba furnishing
the opposition. After this game the ’Cats
take on Lenoir-Rhyne on the local lot. In
\a two-game series in 1932, Lenoir-Rhyne
|took the opener, 3 to 2, but Davidson, with
!George Baily on the mound in his home
town, set the Bears down in their own back
yard, 21 to 2.

In the last home game before spring
| holidays the Wildcats will face Union Theo-
logical Seminary, and in addition, Hurler
| Knox Poole, who turned the locals down so
| handily last year. Only one other game is
|to be played before the, holiday season, and
that is a return game with Catawba here.

During the vacation the following teams
| will meet: Elon, here; Carolina, Winston-
Salem, and again at a place yet to be de-

en a |cided upon, and Elon at Elon.

In baseball, Coach “Red” Laird has start-! Wake Forest follows this series of games,
ed daily scrimmages to get a‘line on pos-| and then a trip to the eastern part of the
sible starters for the opening game which | state will be taken, and on this Carolina
is two weeks off. Laird seems to broaden| and N. C. State will be met on their home
his ever-present smile when talking about | fields.

the possibilities of the candidates he has; Another game with Lenoir-Rhyne will be
to work with this year. With the ‘exception | played in Hickory, followed by another east-
of pitchers and outfielders, he has only two ern trip to Duke and Wake Forest. The sea-
teams with which to work, but competition | son will close with N. C. State and Duke
is so keen among candidates for the differ-| playing here. :

ent positions that Laird is holding inter- | Between May 2 and 10 a northern trip
varsity in preference to varsity-freshman | js planned, and tentative games have been
scrimmages in order to get the best obser- arranged, which Manager Neal has not given

From ll indications, after two
weeks of workouts, Davidson should be
well represented in major sports this
spring as well as in minor sports. Let-
termen in baseball, track, tennis, and
golf are aided a great deal by brilliant
Sophomore prospects, and the skill of
the older men together with the efforts
of the new varsity men should carry:
the Wildcats to a successful season in
all four sports.

vation of his candidates.

Competition is keenest at secotid base,
where Bumgarner, hard-hitting Sopho-
more, and Mock, who came up from
Rutherford College this year, are bat-
tling for the post. Joe Morris, because
of his height, seems to have ousted vet-
eran Bruce Peabody from his first base
spot. Although the little parson is still
working out at the initial sack, he may
be shifted into the outfield, which al-
ready has more than its share of can-

didates.

Although Fred Smyre is giving him plenty
of competition, ‘the veteran Buck Mills is
holding his own at short and will most like-
ly start at the post. Johnny Mackorell, who
played shortstop for the yearlings last year,
is showing Up brilliantly at short and should
have no trouble in winning the hot corner

assignment over Billy Ravenel -and~-Happy7

Gladstone. The infield will be rounded out
by Whitley, who will-have to do most of
the catching himself, although Burns and
Rives appear good understudies. ©

The outfield should be well taken care
of this year, with the Morrison brothers,
both lettermen; Morgan, leading hitter
among the Freshmen last. year; Pea-
body, who may alternate at first base,
and Weeks, Rogers, and Newman fight-
ing for first honors. Captain Bradsher
should take over—his post at center
when his broken ankle has sufficiently
healed.

Pitching should present no problem to
Laird this season, since he has Pearce, Baily,
and West from last spring’s varsity, and
Harris, Coble, Ashton, and Becker from last
year’s successful Freshman team. Pearce,
Baily and Becker are lefthanders, while all
the others throw from the right side.

The track men got their chance to
show off last Friday and Saturday, and
although the Freshmen led in the scor-
ing, several brilliant prospects for the
varsity were brought to light. Davidson
should be well represented in the dashes
with Glasgow and Wingfield aiding
Captain Fleagle and Dickerson; in the
hurdles with McPhail aiding Little, Mc-
Callie and Pratt; and in the distances
with McFayden, Morris, Gullette, and
Woodside helping Howard and Morrow.

More than twenty-five are working
daily with thirteen lettermen to earn
berths on the track team. cae

Tryouts in golf are being held this week
to select a four-man team to play the ten-
game schedule this spring. Captain T. P.

(Continued on page 6)

jout at this time.
| The schedule follows:
| March _30—Catawba, here.

April 5—Lenoir-Rhyne, here.
April _8—Union, here.
| April 10—Catawba, there.
| April 12—Elon, here.
| April 15—North Carolina, Winston-Sa-
| lem.
| April 17—North Carolina, place pending.
| April 18—Elon, there. :
| April 21—Wake Forest, here.
| April 25—North Carolina, there.
| April 26—N. C. State, there.
| May 2—Lenoir-Rhyne, there.

| May 10—Duke, there.

| May 11—Wake Forest, there.

May 15—N. C. State, here.
May 17—Duke, here.

In spite of its brevity, the Freshman
sschedule is representative this year. The
|majority of the games are on a home and
home basis, but there is one three-day trip
on which Wake Forest, North Carolina, and
N. C. State will be played. The Freshmen
are engaging some of the best Freshman,
high School, and prep school teams in the
state.

To date Coaches Unger and Mathis have
gotten little information as to the line-ups,

‘ith the exception of the hurling material.
Three moundsmen appear to stand out above
the rest. They are Richardson and Jenkins,
right-handers, and Sanders, a-portsider.

The Freshman season opens one day after
the varsity makes its initial appearance,
with Ball Creek High furnishing the oppo-
sition on Richardson Field.

The tentative schedule follows:

March 31—Balls Creek High, here.

April 5—M. P. C. I., there.

April 21—Belmont Abbey, here (pend-
ing).

April 24—Balls Creek High, there.

April 28—Belmont Abbey, there (pend-

ing).
May 4—Wake Forest Frosh, there.
May 5—North Carolina Frosh, there.
May 6—N. C. State Frosh, there.

May 10—M. P. C. I., here.

My Greatest Thrill

AS TOLD BY JACK WAGNER
Writing about the thrills that a lineman
has during his football career is a very dif-
ficult thing to do. If someone does not be-
lieve this, ask any of the men that play.
However, my greatest thrill occurred in
the Wake Forest-Davidson game of this
past fall. It is a very insignificant thing,
but I will always remember it.
Wake Forest had driven us back in the
third quarter to our own one-yard line, and
Charlie Pearce had to punt from 15 yards

in Intra-Mural Competition.

Wrestling Leader |

Charlie Forte, of Barium Springs,
was selected by his teammates to lead
them through the 1934 season. Forte
wrestled in the 145-pound division.

Charlie Forte Leads
Davidson Wrestlers

Charles T. Forte, of Barium Springs, N.
C., was recently elected captain of the
wrestling team for next year. At the same
time, John A. Hunter, of Donner, La., was
selected varsity manager.’

Forte is a member of the Sophomore class
this year and wrestled in the 145-pound
Class. He wrestled at Barium Springs be-
fore coming to Davidson and made his nu-
meral in the sport last year. He also made
his numeral in football last year and was
on the varsity squad this year.

Forte gained six points on the mat this
year, by defeating Devan of Washington
and Lee, and Reed of Duke, both time
advantages. An injured shoulder kept him
out of the V. P. I. and Carolina matches.

The new leaders succeed Ben B. Taylor,
Jr., of Baton Rouge, La., who was the cap-
tain of the mat team this year, and Sam
V. Daniels, of Huntington, W. Va., who was
varsity manager.

Ten Matches Arranged
For Wildcat Golf Team

Preliminary Tryouts for the ‘Team
Are Now Being Held

1

Davidson’s golf team will play ten
matches during the coming season, it was
announced recently by T. P. Caldwell, cap-
tain and manager of the team. Three of
the matches are scheduled for Charlotte,
while the others will be played away.

In the first three contests, Davidson will
be hosts to Richmond University, Washing-
ton and Lee, and Furman, at the Charlotte
Country Club course. The schedule opens on
March 24,

Two trips, one into Virginia and the other
to Georgia, are booked’ for the team. The
Virginia trip begins April 24, when David-

son returns Richmond University’s visit.’

After a return match with Washington and
Lee at Lexington, Va., the Wildcat team
will journey to Greensboro, where Carolina
and Duke Universities will be met on con-
secutive days at the Sedgefield course.

(Continued on page 6)

back of our own goal line. Our line didn’t
hold as it should and the Wake Forest play-
ers rushed the kicker, causing him to hurry
his kick and consequently it was a very
high punt, which didn’t go but about 11
yards. A Wake Forest player, Captain Bill
Green, caught the ball on our 12-yard line.
The coaches had had me going down on
punts so I was near when he caught the
punt. I tackled him, he fumbled the ball and

I recovered, thus giving our team another

chance to punt out of danger.
I think this was my greatest thrill.

Jack Wagner is Davidson’s only four-let-
ter man, making the varsity award in foot-
ball, golf, basketball, and track. He made
the Associated Press all-state second team
in football.

Varsity Lettermen Compete, But
Places Do Not Count in
Scoring

|
The Freshman tracksters displayed their |
merit last Friday and Saturday by win-
ning the inter-class meet with 67 3-4 points.
This especially showed a great deal of |
strength among the frosh because it is the |
first time that the first-year men have won
this meet in several years. The Sophomores |
were second with 51 3-4 points, the Seniors |
next with 17 1-2, and the Juniors trailed |
with 13 points.

Varsity lettermen competed but their
places did not count in the class scoring.

John Lee, of the frosh team, was high
peint man, taking first in the high jump
with five feet, seven inches, placing second
in the javelin throw, and tying for second
in the high jump.

Other scoring honors were divided among
Ras Evans, who won both the sprints, Earl
Frazier, who won both the distance events,
Fred McPhai!, who won both hurdle events,
and Charles Rettis, who placed in three of
the weight events. All three gained ten
points.

The Freshman team this year has greater
potentialities and prospects for a more suc-
cessful season than any preceding frosh
group. They should win all their meets and
this includes the state meet at Chapel Hill.

The purpose of the meet was not only
to give the coaches an idea of the possi-
bilities of the team, but also to work the
men into a little better shape. Next Friday
there will be a—more—strenuous..meet-in
which the full distances will be run.

Since this is their first competition of
the year, and due to a rather cold wind,
the times were nothing exceptional. The
summary is as follows:

100-yard dash: _Evans_(F), first;—Faison
(F), second; Glasgow (Soph), third; Win-
gate (Soph), fourth. Time, 10.3 seconds.

Shot put: Potter (Soph), first; Tipton,
(F), second; Bettis (Sen), third; Peabody
(Sen), fourth. Distance, 35 feet, 10 inches.

High jump: Lee (F), first; Peabody
(Sen),.second;.Gammon. (Soph), Brown
(Sen), Wells (F), tied for third. Height, 5
feet, 7 inches.

350-yard run: Glasgow (Soph), first; Bell
(F), second; Faison (F). Time, 44 seconds.

Three-quarter-mile run: Frazier (F), first;
Rose (Soph), second; Gullette (Soph),.third;
Oakes (Jun), fourth. Time, 3 minutes, 37
seconds.

120 high hurdles: McPhail (Soph), first;
Cathey (F), second; Parker (F), third;
Stephens (F), fourth. Time, 16.6 seconds.

Broad jump: Wingfield (Soph), first;
Armistead (Jun), second; Peabody (Sen),
third; Stephens (F), fourth. Distance, 19
feet, 8 inches.

220-yard dash: Evans (F), first; Glasgow
(Soph), second; Faison (F), third; Gullette
(Soph), fourth. Time, 23.6 seconds.

Pole vault: Pittman (F), first; Dolan
(F), and Lee, J. (F), tied for second place;
Lee, J. B. (Soph), fourth. Height, 11 feet.

660-yard run: Rose (Soph), first; Corbin
(Jun), second; Shuford (F), third; Cothran
(F), fourth. Time, 1 minute, 34 seconds.

Discus throw: Dill (Jun), first; Bettis
(Sen), second; Potter (Soph), third; Sears
(F), fourth. Distance, 110 feet.

Javeline throw: Bettis (Sen), first; Lee

(F), second; Johnston (F), third; Coit

#'
j

FOAM BK PEM a aK

One mile and half: Frazier (F), first;
McFadyen (Soph), second; Morris (Soph),
‘third; Woodside (Jun), fourth. Time, 7 min-
utes, 49 2-5 seconds.

220 low hurdles: McPhail (Soph), first;
Parker (F), second. Time, 29.4 seconds.

Harris Is Chosen as
Basketball Captain

Smyre and White Elected Managers
of Next Year’s Teams

Charlie Harris, of Welch, W. Va., was
chosen captain of the 1934 basketball team
at a meeting of the lettermen recently. Har-
ris’ selection marked the first time in years
that a Sophomore was so honored.

The new leader won the respect of his
teammates the past season by leading them
in individual scoring. Last year he cap-
tained the yearling team and also led them
in scoring. Before coming to Davidson, he
starred in athletics at Virginia Episcopal
School and won state-wide recognition in
football, basketball, baseball, and track.

Besides being skillful in cage play, Har-
ris shows promise of being one of the lead-
ing twirlers for the varsity baseball team
this spring.

At the same meeting, Fred Smyre, of
Gastonia, N. C., was elected manager of
the 1934 team, and James White, of Gra-
ham, N. C., Freshman manager. Donald
Bailey, Jack Hellinger, and Billy Ravenel
were selected Junior managers, with Ray
Richardson as alternate.

COMMENCEMENT

and Then

GRADUATION

a SENIOR’S desire is to
have a lasting remembrance
of college life. These are
brought about by college ties,

formalities and .... .

Commencement
Invitations

See E. O. Guerrant
A. M. Manson

@ PDabidson Theatre

Lewis Stone

John Barrymore

Frederick March

Warner Baxter Rubie Keller

WEDNESDAY
MEN MUST FIGHT

Dina Wynward

|

THURSDAY ;
TOPAZ

Gloria Stuart

Myrna Loy

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
‘SIGN OF THE CROSS

Claudett Colbert

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
42nd Street

George Brent Bebe Daniels

