THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1933.

2
| s i College Catalogue. At that time it was known
The avidsontan ‘as the Committee of Public Lectures and Ly- 1 SAW WORLD SPECTATOR
ceum Course and was composed of Professors
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” J. W. MacConnell and, H. B. Arbuckle.

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate Vear. Entered as second class matter at the Post
ice, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must*be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p. m., Monday.

EDWARD OQ. GUERRANT Editor-in-Chief
a no ff MANSON AN SST TA ET Business Manager
ls. ¢ anaging. Editor
k F SCHENCK. [anaging Editor
. M. THOMP i -Managing Editor
AG WITIIAM Sides occ cecssuscassescubuatescs Managing Editor
fon CASALI Athletic Editor
FAR GUA Kacscct 2 v_laue--sa--2-----------Exchange Editor
. W. WHITE. .--Feature Editor
. S. GAMBLE... -----Feature Editor
J. T. GOODYKOO Contributing Editor
E. A, HANC zur Review Editor
D. OD. Associate Editor
Rieke -.-Associate Editor
Cc. F. MYE Associate Editor
B. B, SUGG_..22-- “[Associate Editor
\BUSINESS STAFF
W. T. JOHNSON-Y2222_---------- Assistant Business Manager
A, H. MANSO ae: --Assistant B 4
ALVIN: BAYER, ‘JRivccswudscuiccl cee wee
i. B. DANIEL__-- ~--Solicitor
W sist
. R. LOR ~--Solicit
. A. C. WADSWORTH ae licitor
. E. WHITE..-- olici
REPORTERS’ CLUB
‘ .--President
i & AMBER TET eT wai Berens ae They Vice-President
LEWIS GREGG. patelebse yo Secretary-Treasurer
M..W. ALDERMA .L. McCLINTOCK
R. n LDERMAN . L. McILWINEN
G. E. ILY E. F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W. L. NORTHEN
. E. BOWERS - C,..E, NORVELL
. E. BOY E. L. POWELL
‘ Ht COVINGTON S. P. PRESTON
S. K. EATON P. M. ROGE
J. B. FICKLIN B. L.. RO
G. L. GULLETTE T. H, SUTTON sia
ACK_HELLINGER N. W. WALIA
. C. HENRY K. D. WEEKS
k A. HUNTER W. R. WARD
. E. LORRAINE W._T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD } W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

FEBRUARY 15,1933

Tam never less at leisure than when at lcisure,
nor less alone than when T am alone.
—Scipio Africanits.
EEE ean
THOUGHTS IN PASSING

We hope that after the weather we have had re-
cently we will have a little spring weather to follow
it. To those Freshmen and also upperclassmen who
may be a bit depressed after this last term’s work,
we would like to quote a bit of poetry well known

*to all of you. “If winter come, can spring be far
behind?” The thought in this may be very helpful
to some. 3

) Daa
Dr. Williams gave a very good address at vespers

last Sunday evening, and we wish there had been a
greater attendance.

D

All who have ever heard Gipsy Smith, Jr. are
leoking forward to his coming here this spring for
our Spring Services with great eagerness. The two

_ evangelistic services at Davidson are always good,
and the coming set should equal or surpass any we
have ever had in the past.

D :

The Darlington basketballteam proved to be very
gqod, judging from the results of last Saturday night’s
game with the Freshmen. One of the members of
this team} Ramsey Potts, is the third ranking junior
tennis player in the United States. Frankie Parker,
the 16-year-old wonder who beat George Lott three
times last summer, had to play five sets with Potts
to finally emerge the winner. Darlington has sent
some excellent tennis players to Davidson in the past,
and we would do well to have Potts on the team
two years from now.

D:

The game in Winston-Salem Saturday night was
a hard one to lose, but our team, we believe, is im-
proving rapidly.

; D

According to the latest reports, Clark and Pea-
body are going to have quite a carload to go to
Washington March 4 for the inauguration. It should
be a very instructive as well as an enjoyable trip.

D.

Dr. Roth’ proved to be a most interesting speaker

last Monday evening.

—D.

Members of Dr. Gwynn’s sociology class will have
the peculiar opportunity this semester of aiding the
county in social service work. Besides rendering
whatever service they can to the county, they should
gain valuable experience in this line of work. i

———D
~*~‘ LECTURE COMMITTEE

——~Pavidson—otters to her~students a varied

group of advantages and opportunities. This

group may be divided into the spiritual, schol-

astic, physical, and social. Since the supreme

aim of a college education is to enlarge the

intellectual, a greater stress should be put on

this path,

One of the greatest promoters to the cul-
tivation of the mind is the Committee of Pub-
lic Lectures. This committee first appeared
in the February, 1913, issue of the Davidson

The group remained unchanged until 1917,
when the name was changed to the Committee
of Public Lectures and Celebrations. The per-
sonnel was Professors'Fulton (past professor
of [english), J. M. McConnell, A.'Currie, and
H. B. Arbuckle. Dr. T. W. Lingle: became
chairman in 1919 and held this position for a
period of seven years. At the present time
Dr.-t#. > Shewmake is chairman, with Drs.
KK. J. Foreman and Frazer Hood as members.

The committee has only a small fund with
which to work, and this fund jis apportioned
to the different departments for use in obtain-
ing their respective speakers: _Thus far we
have had representatives of the English, Ger-
man, and Geography departments, and during
the remainder of the year, lecturers will be
brought here to speak in the interest of Edu-
cation, Chemistry, Psychology, and French.
One speaker who will be of general interest
is William Trufant Foster, who will appear in
the near future.

Every student should avail himself of the
opportunity of hearing these speakers. Their
subjects are of sucha varied sort that every-
one can find in them the field in which he is
most interested,

Sadi of Shiraz said, “If I-had two loaves, |
would sell one and buy white hyacint to
feed my. soul.” Which is a Persian’s poetic
way of saying that a well-fed body and a
starved sda could not possibly do. winning
teamwork. For Sadi of Shiraz, white hya-
cinths were soul food, and for us today these
lectures may in turn be soul food to keep
body and. soul in harmony.

; —LYMAN W. CLARDY.

“ROOSEVELT AS DICTATOR

The recent suggestion by some members of
Congress advocating that Roosevelt be given
the power of a dictator is very significant.
Five years ago no group or no person of any
standing would have dared advance such a
proposition. It would have been thought of
as revolutionary and as taking a step back-
ward. We would be departing from. the prin-
ciples on which this country was founded,
would have been the opinion of most of the
people of that time, and is the opinion of many
at this time. The great majority of people
now look on this with little favor, and justly
so, but~stittthere-are-some, believed to be
sane and responsible men, who are in favor
of this step. There is no doubt that if this
plan were carried out, it would be a revolu-
tionary one, but whether it would deprive us
of any freedom which we now enjoy is a de-
batable question. It certainly shows that some
members of a conservative group, such as we
know the Congress of the United States to
he, think that very drastic steps are needed to
save the economic and political machinery of
the country from going on the rocks.

This might be a good idea if we had such
a leader as Woodrow Wilson, but Franklin D.
Roosevelt will have enough responsibility
after March fourth to keep him busy for the
next four years.» He may prove to be a very
able man, but his record as Governor of New
York has not revealed him to be any genius,
and we believe that bestowing such a “great
Fesponsibility as piloting the greatest nation in
the world through one of its most difficult pe-
riods is a task too great for anyone who has
hot proven to the country that he is capable
-of such responsibility,, The least we can do,
however,.is to admire any man willing to as-
sume this responsibility in times like these.

r

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

V. M. I.

It seems that Jack Benny and Ted Weems won't
be on the air any longer with the Canada Dry pro-
gram on Monday and Thursday; perhaps the passage
of the beer bill cut down the income from the sale
of ginger ale. Now-the editor of “Lend Thine Ears”
in The Cadet seems to think that Jack Benny will
be the comedian on the Old Gold program .with Fred
Waring’s Pennsylvanians on Wednesday night at 10
o'clock over the Columbia Broadcasting Network.
Well, here's. hoping that his assumption is correct,
for we think that Jack Benny is just about the best
comedian on the air with the exception of Eddie
Cantor-and” Will Rogers.
ee Presbyterian College
Dr. William M. Anderson, affectionately known as
“Bill” to Davidson students, will conduct services
twice a day at P. C., March 21-24. He is well known
to the Juniors and Seniors up here for he was here
in the fall of 1930 for, the fall services. The P. C.
boys should take advantage of this opportunity of
hearing this man; don’t miss him. If only we could

~get-him-up-here-for-one service, but “if wishes were

horses...”
Vera:
V. P. I. is to have two orchestras for their Mid-
Winters. Tommy Tucker and His Californians,

known as the “Hollywood Pets,” and Dan DeForest
and his orchestra will furnish the music on February
17 and 18 for V. P. L.’s annual Mid-Winter Dances.
Both of these orchestras are well known to the fans
of radioland, Tucker having played over the Colum-

Bill Muffet said

His car couldn’t skid

This monunient shows

That it could and did.
Thrésa Crowd.

... Tom Boles in real trouble at the recent dances.
He was_sitting_astride the radiator of his car with
one arm stuck in the air shaft which refused to come
out. What was his arm doing in the air shaft? Some-
body during the dance, in trying to take his car
had torn off the handle and he couldn’t get in. He
tried to reach through the shaft to turn the handle
inside. Imagine his dismay when his arm would not

come out. He had to remain in this undignified posi- *

tion foria quarter of an hour with the wind whistling
through his dress suit and his girl anxiously standing
on the curb.

. . . the following plea in big print in the daily
paper. WANTED: Burly, beauty-proof individual to-
read meters\ in sorority houses. We haven’t made a
nickle in two years. The Gas Co. This wouldn’t be
hard to understand if it-was at Queens-Chicora.

... Gordon, Wood and Henry Nicol swapping tales.
Said Gordon,| “Do you know what they do with
ferry boats when they're late?” Henry thought,a min-
ute and retorted, “No—what?” Gordon wisely an-
nounced, “Why they dock em.”

. and like the crack about the New York actress.
A friend of the actress remarked that the public
would miss her after she retired. “That’s why I
left,” she responded. “I didn't want to be hit.” I
think a lotta them take that risk nowadays.

- . . and tearned that fewer boys go out to sing

at the prison camp now. Some of the prisoners ob-.

jected on the ground that it wasn’t included in their
sentences.

. the following story come under the observa-
tion of this department. A Mooresville father en-
tered the parlor at twelve-thirty and angrily demand-
ed, “Look here, young man! Do you stay as-late:as
this when you ¢all on other girls?” The Davidson
student in question stammered ‘“N-n-n-n-no, sir.”
The father appeased, left the room with “Thank
Heaven! She's caught on at last!”

. + .a nice lady here in the village undecided about
crossing Main Street when it was covered with ice
last Saturday. B. B. Sugg came. along and they
started across together. I thought both of them
would fall down in spite of everything, and when
they made it safely. I heaved a sigh of relief.

—.a_Ccdelightful dance enjoyed by the K. A.’s at
the Charlotte Country Club last week-end. I just’ got
a little peek but it was enough to know that it was
one of the most brillilant of the current season and
Miss Charlgtte was there with bells on,

- .. efficient Mrs. Smith listening to a Grady Cole
broadcast from the fourth floor of East as she passed
by last’ Thursday morning. ‘By this time the culprits
have been found, more than likely, and all is quiet
in East penthouse.

some of the members of the boxing. team
working out at the gym recently, Under Captain
Pritchett’s capable direction we ought to have a pretty
good team next year. Let me give you boxers a
little tip. Never hit a man when-he’s
never know when he might get up again.

down, you

I heard a party groaning because he was mentioned
in this column, It makes me laugh to hear people
that. They really like it and won't admit it.
Human natureeis a funny thing, I have some good
advice for all my dear readers this week, always
like Caesar's ghost, be above suspicion . .

say

. remember
Columbus’ motto, “More miles’ to the galleon (you
fuelish thing) and above all, everything that is blind
and laughs at locksmiths is not love.”

. .. Buddy Robinson staggering up from the Post
Office last Saturday with about eight letters from
a group of Queens-Chicora girls, all mémbers of a
certain sorority in that institution. Evidently they
had read this column last week about Buddy turning
in his box and receiving mail through the General

Delivery, because of scarcity of mail. If there are any -

other members of the student body who would like
to receive letters from numerous fair damsels of the
neighboring girls’ colleges in great numbers, just
make the fact-known to me, if you can, and I’ll see
what I can do for you. I wish I could fix myself
up as well as I seem to have done for him.

Yours till next week,

TIP POFF.

bia Network from the Hollywood Restaurant, and
DeForest has played over the National Network from
the Palais D’Orr Restaurant.

Agnes Scott
Dr. Robert W. Miles, D.D., pastor of the West-
minster Presbyterian Church of Lynchburg, Va., will
preach for the annual Week of Religious Services
at Agnes Scott this week. He was heard here last
year for three days.

. Georgia Tech
The Honorable Eugene Talmadge, new Governor of
the State of Georgia, will deliver the commence

ment
address’at Tech this year.

The depression has hit the Metropolitan Opera
Company rather hard, so that in order to be able to
continue, it must have $300,000 from some source. In
a recent meeting of box holders, artists, and the
company which operates the opera, a plan was. sug~
gested whereby the company would ask for donations
to help cover the fund needed to guarantee the con-
tinuation of this famousginstitution for another year.
Already plans are under way for the next opera sea-
son, and it is thought that regardless of the results
obtained from the appeal to be made to the public,
the opera will run for at least twelve weeks. The
reason for this plan, regardless of the public dona-
tions, is that the cost of operating is very little more
than the cost of a dark opera house.

Two British flyers, Squadron Leader O. R. Gayford
and Lieutenant G. E. Nicholetts, established a new
long-distance non-stop flight record of 5,341 miles
from England to South Africa. A great* part of the
distance was flown with practically no visibility. The
course was maintained by automatic controls. This
robot failed them later on in their journey, but they
Were fortunate then in being able to see. So accurate
were their calculations that the flyers arrived at their
destination with only ten gallons of gasoline to spare.

A recent snowstorm in New York City cost the
city government approximately $80,000. This was paid
to about 5,000 additional men besides those who were
already in the employ of the sanitary department.
The extra workmen received on an average of $7
for a fourteen-hour job.

The Dutch Navy has had a hectic time with its
stolen cruiser, “De Provincien,”’ which was
stolen by the mutinous crew several days ago. The
vessel, stationed in the Dutch West Indies, was taken
over by the crew while the captain went ashore. The
cruiser put to sea, and was soon pursued by—several
other vessels of the Dutch Navy stationed at the,
same place. Soon after the mutiny, the crew sent a
Wireless to the Dutch naval authorities, saying that
they would surrender if their pay was raised to the
scale in effect just before the recent cut in wages.
The Dutch refused, and sent several vessels and a
seaplane squadron in pursuit of the mutiny. After
several days the vessels caught up with the cruiser
and wireless messages demanded ‘surrender. This
was refused, and a seaplane dropped a bomb near the
cruiser. Still the mutineers were steadfast in their
purpose. It was only after a seaplane dropped a
bomb upon the deck of the cruiser, killing twenty-
two men and starting a fire, that the morale of the
mutiny broke and the crew surrendered.

Zeven

The fire
Was soon put out and the cruiser was ordered to go
to Batavia. As yet no action has been taken against
the mutinous crew.

‘Tt is cheaper to go to college than to go to jail.
This fact has been shown by the statistics of Bernard
J. Fagan, New York State Parole Commissioner.
The cost ‘per cell of a prison is $4,000; and the cost
per prisoner to the state is at least $500 a year. Thus
the state has to pay more to keep a prisoner than
a great many college men have to pay to get a vear
of college.

Lost: one manuscript, used -by President-elect
Roosevelt in making his acceptance speech to the
Democratic Convention in Chicago last stimmer; last
seen just after the speech was finished; finder please
return to James A. Farley, Democratic National
Chairman. The Democratic National Committee files
are being searched, in the hope that
Was mixed’ with other papers.
velt and his secret

the manuscript
The files of Roose-
aries are also being searched. It
may be, however, that some curio seeker slipped off
with the paper during all the

excitement following
the speech,

Just as this paper is being sent out, i. e., four
o'clock today, the Coluntbia Broadeasting SyStem will
be broadcasting a demonstration and lecture on the
cosmic ray by Dr. W. F. G. Swann, director of the
Bartol Research Foundation of the Franklin Institute,
Swathmore, Pa. The program will include a broad-
casting of the sounds made by the cosmic rays caught
in a special ray trap. There is a difference among
scientists as to the origin of the sounds. Dr. Robert
A. Millikan believes them to be the “birth cries” of
atoms being -ereated in space, while Sir Arthur Ed-
dington and. Sir James J
is produced by the destru
stars.

cans believe that the noise
ction of matter within the
Whatever the source, we are told that the
noise will sound very much like static when it comes
Mm Over our radios.

aes

Dr. Lion Feuchtwanger, German novelist, in a re-
cent speech in New York, bitterly criticised Adolf
Hitler as a writer. He made the comment that Hitler
styles himself a literary man and refuses to accept a
salary as Chancellor, stating that hé makes his liv-
ing by his pen. Dr. Feuchtwanger stated that in Hit- ;
ler’s book, “My Struggle,” which he wrote several
years ago while in prison, there are 140,000 words,
and_ 140,000 mistakes, J4 -the-first-few- editions there
were a few passages Which were correct as far as
both subject matter and grammar were concerned,
but the later editions omitted these passages. Hit-
ler’s theory along this line is: “Tf you wish to win
the sympathy of broad masses, then you must tell
them the crudest and most stupid things.” It seems
that the Hitlerites use quantity instead of quality in
their literary works. - It is said that each day there
is enough anti-Semitic literature published to heave

an average of twenty-five publications for each Jew
in Germany. ;
