MARCH 22, 1933

2 THE DAVIDSONIAN,
’ : ,
Che Mavidsonian ROMINATIONS I SAW WORLD SPECTATOR
; The Davidsonian announces that the
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” ‘ Pate , ;
following men are eligible for the editor- eae ote
; ship of. the paper for the coming year: ... Phi Bete Eddy McNair with the situation well Recently a test flight in India was made by two
rhachis 2 SA, dncoesitedeliadoa in hand of a Tuesday night. He was dashing around members of the British Mount Everest flight expe-
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Col- ODI CASALI with a girl named Eve whom I didn’t know from dition. The Westland Wallace, one of the planes to

legiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post
Office. Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the
Managing Editors by 4:00 p: m., Monday.

K NT. Editor-in-Chief
MOM MANSON eA Bessel e ccseLasce tes Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF i
AW SOLER Y Sia, ocuctscusddsbasdccaubesdannaned Mattaging Editor
a Mf SCHENCK... 3 ~-Managing Editor
W. M THOMPSON ---Managing Editor
JACK WILLIAMS Fe aati Editor
ODI CASALI Athletic Editor
E. LAKE... _..Exchange-Editor
(OW RAW HUD ciisccicsiccicasetsucscccestsuceaoos Feature Editor
. S. GAMBLE_. -.----Feature Editor
. T. GOODYKOONTZ Contributing Editor
k A. HANCOC -------Review Editor
D D. McBRYD -Associate Editor
: ---Associate ito!
& F MYERS cedububueeuueuaN. Associate Editor
By 2 Big SUGGIess secs coiscessceatecs ice er Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

eT; NSON_.--- ~Assistant Business Manager
x: i OHSS Ghboos -Assistant B M
ALV
H._B. IEL
J. M.
G, L,
W._P.
JR
Bs
ahof
{- &
«38;
Bas L.. McCLINTOCK
3 RMAN . L. Me
Re ALDERMAN V."L.. McILWINEN
G. E. BAILY E, F. McPHAIL
D. B. BAILEY W. C. NEILL
B. C. BARNES W._[. NORTHEN
. E. BOWERS C. E. NORVELL
Lt ee ee
. H. NGTON ” PRE
Se BATON” P. M. ROGERS
J. B. FICKLIN B. L. ROSE
. L. GULLETTE T. H, SUTTON
ACK_HELLINGER N. W. WALLACE
Es folie ce Wane
k. & TORRAINE W._T. THOMPSON
T. F. WOOD } W. WHITE
W. F. MULLISS . PRATT-THOMAS

MARCH 22, 1933

THOUGHTS IN PASSING

“But I say unto you, that ye resist not evil
but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right
cheek turn to him the other also.”

—Matt. 5:39.

TD.
v

The above teaching of Christ is perhaps the most
neglected of all His teachings. After nineteen hun-
dred years we are still willing to fight. Qnly until
we follow the spirit of this teaching in its fullest
can we ever hope to have world peace.

T).

Ramsey MacDonald, the British prime minister,

deserves a world of credit for his work on the dis- |

armament question. From several sources comes
the statement that he has perhaps diverted a pos-

sible war over armaments among European nations. ;

1D.

One cannot help but question the civilization of
today. Have we really advanced when we are ready
to leap at each other’s throats upon the slightest
injury to our national pride?

TD.

President Roosevelt is also to be admired for his

stand on the armaments question.
T).

President Roosevelt has won the heartfelt admir-
ation of the people of the United States through his

quick action in the present economic crisis:
T).

It,is quite possible that he can patch up the cap-
italistic system if he continues with the same zeal,
along the same line; and continues to have the co-
* operation of the American Congress, and the Amer-

ican people.
T).

Junior Speaking was a big success. Lanier Pratt
and his committee deserve a good deal of credit
for putting it over in such a good fashion, especially
during the present financial crisis. We feel their
action wise in reducing the number of dances.

D.

Davidson should be proud of Reeves Pope’s
Southernaires. We feel that they are perhaps as
good as any college orchestra (those now in college)
in the South.

—D.

’ The orchestra was good last year, but it is even
better this year. The music they provided for Junior
Speaking was very good. We are glad to hear they
are to play for Bowery Ball. The orchestra is bet-
ter than a lot of outside orchestras we have heard
at Davidson dances, and better than quite a few
we could obtain. :

1.

The warm spring weather of recent! days “makes

the youthful heart to sing.”
T).

We are all looking forward to Spring Holidays. _

The sooner they come the better.
JT).

For the religious-minded and for those who are
not, this columnist wishes to recommend Lloyd Doug-
las’ new book, “Forgive Us Our Trespasses.” It is
par-excellent.

~ taken after the committee had considered Ben Ber-

LYMAN W. CLARDY
ALEX F. SCHENCK
W. M. THOMPSON
JACK WILLIAMS, JR.

DELTA PI KAPPA EDITORIAL CONTEST

Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fra- .
ternity, together with The Davidsonian, is
offering a contest to the students of David-
son College. It is an editorial contest; the
editorials to -be written on any subject.

Rules |

1. The contest‘is open to all Sophomores |
|

|

and all Juniors and Seniors not connected
with the editorial staff of any of the three
publications.

The contest was opened on March 8 (it
was announced on the front page of The Da-
vidsonian on that day) and will close April 1.

3. The editorials may be of any length.
They may treat of any subject but must con-
tain no direct personal criticism or unbecom-
ing language.

4. The editorials must be typewritten,
double-spaced. No name must appear on the
sheets containing the editorial, but the writer
must put his name on an outside sheet, |
clipped to the editorial. |

5. The prize will be an honorary member- |
ship into Delta Pi Kappa.

- 6. Editorials must be handed in to E. O.
Guerrant or J. E. Lake by April 1.

7. The editorials will be graded by E. O. |
Guerrant, W. C. Thompson, and J. E. Lake.

8. The Davidsonian will have the right to
print-any-of-them:

EUROPE AT PRESENT

Along with the recent ascendency of. Hit-
ler to the helm in Germany the most serious
situation since before the World War has
arisen again in Europe. The last war which
decimated Europe for four years was ended
by the Treaty of Versailles, which has kept
the rest of the world as“well as Europe in a
turmoil since that time. This war to end war
seems not to have accomplished a thing along
those lines, because fifteen years after its
close, Europe is again armed very heavily,
and the present disarmament conference at
Geneva does not seem to be making any prog-
ress. Undoubtedly the Versailles Treaty was
unjust because it forced Germany to a place
where the rest of the world thought it would
be hard for her ever to recover, but Ger-
many has advanced very rapidly in recent
years. The people are naturally very indus-
trious and energetic and have made rapid
strides forward. The Versailles Treaty has
caused the Germans to hate the French more
than ever before, and they have never had
any great love for’'them since the time of
Charlemagne. Because Hitler has always
been bitterly opposed to this treaty and al-
ways outspoken, he has been elevated to the
high position which he now holds.

France has alliances with certain Balkan
countries and Germany, Hungary, and Italy
are closely allied in sympathy, especially
since the Nazis who have recently assumed
the leadership in Germany are so much like
the Fascists in Italy. Thus there seem to be
two camps in Europe, and the situation looks
vey much like it did in the years preceding
1 ;

The condition seems tragic. No one wants
war, everyone seems to fear it, and yet no ~
one knows how to do away withit. Of course
Christian teachings would solve the question,
but it certainly looks like the countries of
the world have not yet reached that stage
in their development. If anything should
have taught us a lesson, that last war should
have, but it does not seem to be the case. We
firmly believe that the people in these va-
rious nations do not want ‘war, but the na-
tionalistic and imperialistic leaders, because
of greed and hate, attempt to poison the
minds of their populaces and force them into
conflict. Thus the duty of every nation in
the world professing itself to be Christian
is to educate its children from early child-
hood to look upon war as the greatest scourge
of civilization, and by this means eradicate
it from the globe.

Collegiate Ramblings
J. E. LAKE

; Vv. M. I.
Ah! Guy Lombardo and His Royal Canadians will
be the orchestra featuring the Virginia Military
Institute’s Easter dances April 28 and 29. Guy was __|

nie, Ozzie Nelson, Eddie Duchin, and Don Bestor,
but this was only. natural since Guy is ‘by far the
best of the lot. He has been the best in the coun-
try for the past two years. Guy has a contract with
the CBS to play every Saturday night from

Adam. She was one of the prettiest of the Queens-
Chicora girls who came up to present the program
at the Eu Literary Society meeting. I wanted to
meet her but she was off with him from her arrival
until time to Teave.

. . James McCue bring out the coaching staff
with him on the field the other afternoon. As you
know, he is out for baseball manager and one of
the sophs sent him to the gym for 30 yards of base
line. He couldn’t make old Dr. Charlie and the others
understand what he wanted and brought them all
out to see what was the matter.

... and know you too have heard the melodious ( ? )
singing coming from No. 1 Georgia. Jerry Clark,
B. B. Sugg, and Parson Peabody are the three re-
sponsible. On these spring, moonlight nights, they
get in a huddle and their harmony can be heard
all over the campus. Maybe Jerry sings because it
is only a little longer until he turns over the reins
of the presidency to Julian West. I think you'll agree
that he has made us a good president and know
you wish Jule the best of luck.

. . . Moffett McConnell walking on air. No, not lit-
erally but almost. He has just been awarded a year’s

scholarship at the Harvard School of Business in™

Boston for yext year. This, by the way, is the only
scholarship given at Harvard amounting to the year’s
expenses and he ought to be justly proud of it.

. . @ catastrophe averted. Joe Bryant sat down
in a chair in which Buck Kirkland’s glasses were
lying. The glass parts dropped from the frame but
were not broken. Buck took them up and put them
back in as if it was an every-day occurrence.

- @ goodly crowd of students in the balcony of
the auditorium to hear Blanche Calloway play not
long ago. One of the local boarding house cooks was
heard to remark, “I wanta behave myself so I.won’t
get shipped.” In talking to Blanche after the dance,

she declared, “I really enjoy directing an orchestra,

and think it is intensely interesting.”

- and guess you have heard by this time of the
kidnappings that have been going on around here
lateyl. Buck Mills bummed a ride with a man who
tried to take him goodness knows where out into
_the woods instead of to his home at Statesville.
Buck snatched the key out of the switch and then
stepped safely out of the car.

Then John Willis and John Miller were picked up
in Rock Hill by a party who took them all the way
to Columbia instead of bringing them to Charlotte
where they were going. I hear he told them he en-
joyed doing it and once took some boys who wanted
to go to New York all the way to Miami. The mont
exasperating moment of the escapade came when the
moron made little John Willis eat nine fried eggs
at one sitting. This has certainly taken the joy out
of bumming for me!

+ .. a crowd assembled on the porch of Watts dorm
as I passed. Somebody observed that Lew Prosser
was one of the best dressed men on the campus.
Bugs Barringer agreed, “Yes, he is, and I ought to
know because I carry his laundry.” Speaking of
laundries, have you ever figured up what your aver-
age laundry would cost if you paid regular laundry
prices? If you haven’t, then do it and multiply it
by the number of weeks in the school year. It will

surprise you to learn what an item laundry would
be.

... another one pulled on Buck Mills in Polit class.
He was sleeping peacefully when Dr. Currie asked
him a question about the legal relation between a
man and his wife. Bill Munroe, who is always up to
something, whispered, “Tell him you think a horse
is private property.” Buck did and the class roared.

TIP POFF.

11:30 to 12, and we may hear Guy from V. M. I.
on the 29th of April. Guy’s orchestra began in Lon-
don, Ontario, about thirteen or fourteen years ago
with three members; since then it has been enlarged,
but most of the members are natives of Canada,
hence the name, Royal Canadians.

: Roanoke

What is the difference between an economist and
a broker? An economist is a man who knows a
great deal about very little, and who goes along
knowing move and more about less and less, until
finally he knows practically everything about noth-
ing. A broker is a man who knows a little about
a great deal and who keeps on knowing less and
less about more and more, until he knows practically

nothing about everything.—Wall Street Journal.

mes

Washington and Lee
The students voted yesterday on the question of
their Finals, whether it would be a $10 Finals with

_the_orchestra-being--one.of.the big.ones, such as

Jan Garber, Hal Kemp, Ted Weems, Ben Bernie, or
Gus Arnheim, or a $5 Finals with-a-mediocre or-
chestra and decorations. Till yet we don’t know how
the voting came out as The Davidsonian went to
press before they met. To compete with V. M. i
they had best get the $10 Finals.

be used in the flight, was taken up by Flight Lieu-
tenant McIntyre and Chief Cinematographer Bon-
nett to a height of 34,000 feet. The plane functioned
excellently, and everyone was satisfied with its per-
formance, One or two minor details were not exactly
satisfactory. The most important of these is the im-
possibility of the photographer to rise up in his cock-
pit in order to take his pictures. The air is of such
character that it seems to come right through the
oxygen mask, causing the failure of this important
apparatus. The electrically heated flying suits also
were slightly imperfect, in that the knees ofthe
flyers were too hot. These corrections will be made
and the flight over Mount Everest will be made in
the near future.

In the New York State Legislature a bill was
brought up which would prohibit vivisection, med-
ical experiments on living dogs. This question has
created quite a difference of opinion, some thinking
that the peace for the dogs is more valuable than
the information derived from the experiments. Mrs.
Harry Goeckler, an officer of the Humane Society,
stated that she saw a dog with a cord through its
heart in the back yard of a young doctor near her
home. She said, “That dog had been experimented
upon in New York City and had been brought to
Larchmont by the doctor so he could watch it suffer.”
The State Anti-Vivisection Society strongly denied
that vivisection was necessary, although many of
New York’s leading physicians contended that the
experiments were necessary “if we are to prolong
life and relieve suffering.” Among those opposing the
bill forbidding vivisection are the director of the
New York State Health Department Laboratory and
the State Commissioner of Health. It seems to us
as if the bill were an attempt on the part of a few
to pass a law which would be helpful to the ani-
mals, but which would hinder progress in discovery
of human medical facts. Perhaps if they realized
that they some day might be in a position where
their life was balanced against a dog’s comfort, they
might change their minds.

The atlas used by*Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden
in the Thirty Years War has been discovered. It
was printed in 1689, composed by Gerard Mercator
of AmSterdam. The Swedish king’s route in the war
was shown, marked with red crosses. The volume
was discovered in the library of the University of
Heidelburg. Upon the front of the book was a medal-
lion picture of Gustavus and the inscription, “Gus-
tavo Adolfo D. G. Suec Goth rex.” The hand-colored
maps are well preserved, although the one of Ger-
many shows that it was well used.

The liner Egypt yielded up the gold cargo to the
Italian salvage crew, so plans are being made to put
the same crew to work, attempting to salvage the

. treasure ship of Louis XVI which is sunk in the

Seine River near Havre. Just before the French
Revolution, Louis XVI is said to-have put a large
supply of gold, jewels, and plate upon the Telemaque
for the purpose of sending the treasure to New York,
out of reach of threatening revolutionists. The Tele-
maque is said to have sunk near the mouth of the
Seine, where it still lies. An attempt to salvage the
treasure was made in 1840, but was unsuccessful.
The Italian company now planning an attempt has
an advantage of almost one hundred years of engi-
neering development and experience,

Exactly what the changing. of Germany’s flags
means is rather hard to determine. Whether it means
that there is a slow moving attempt to restore the
German empire, or whether it means that Hitler is
bidding for the dictatorship under a very weak em-
peror is impossible to foresee. Nevertheless, the fact
remains that Germany has returned to the imperial
black, white and red colors. The republican black,.
red and gold flags have been removed from the mili-
tary units of government, both army and navy. In
some cases the imperial eagle is in prominence,
while in others the black cross is in the center of
the flag. Now Germany is under a mixture of flags.
There are a few republican colors, and some with
the swastika emblem of the Nazis, as well as the
different types of imperial colors. At the next meet-

ing of the Reichstag, the legal flag will probably be
determined.

Japan is having an extremely hard time provid-
ing herself with raw materials with which to carry
on her war with China. The islands of Japan are
not rich in iron ore, so Japan has to import large
quantities of scrap iron from the west coast of
America to use in her steel mills. The Japanese,
when questioned as to why they imported so much
steel from the Canadian Pacific junk yards, stated
that there was a law that all the city buildings had
to be built with reinforcing of steel in order to be
able to withstand earthquakes, It is interesting to
note, however, that since Japan started her war with
China, Los Angeles harbor has increased its junk ©
iron exports 2,000 per cent. One thing which is still
shipped to Japan for the purpose of carrying on the
war is airplanes, and airplane motors, which are not
included in the arms embargo.
