: : THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 5, 1933

BASEBALL TEAM MEETS
LENOIR-RHYNE TODAY

THE SPORTS PARADE

’CAT GOLFERS MEET
FURMAN IN NEXT MATCH

FIRING AT RANDOM

CASKIE NORVELL, Jr.

’Cat Cindermen Down V. P. I.

Last week Coach Laird held the pessi-
mistic view that the Davidson baseball team
appeared punchless. Well, the little imbrog-
lio with the boys from Catawba showed that
Coach Laird’s proteges could wield the wil-
low at any rate, and a 14 to 2 victory is no
eked out win. This column predicts a good
season for Davidson on the diamond.

Two good portsiders
right-hander give the ’Cats a _ great
pitching staff. Charlie Pearce and
George Baily are the southpaws, and
Charlie Harris flings them over in the
orthodox style. Between Harris and
Pearce the Catawba Indians were able
to garner but six scattered bingles.

and a steady

Peabody, with one safety out of two trips
to the plate, is now the leading hitter, with
a <500 percentage. However, Mackorell,
Whitley, and June Morrison are keeping
pace with him, and batting honors are any-
body’s as yet.

Coach Unger’s yearlings are socking
the ball at will in th early
games. They knocked both Cornelius
and Balls Creek to all corners of the
lot. In Richardson, the Freshmen have
a fine right-hander, who has pitched
neat ball in the brace of games played
to date. Loftin and Burns look good at
the plate too.

The Davidson golfers came out of a big
slump after the overwhelming defeat at the
hands of the University of Richmond and
defeated a strong team when they toppled
the Generals of Washington and Lee over
the sporty Charlotte Country Club terrain.
Wagner had a 75, with five three-putt
greens, which is good golf on any man’s
team. Just let him polish up on that game
With old “Calamity Jane,” and the boy who
shoots the sporty Blowing Rock course in
64, eight under par, will be knocking off
the titans of the links in short order. John
Thompson’s good golf comes as a welcome
assistance to the team.

Captain Tom Caldwell and Mac Man-
son, varsity linksmen of 1932, are play-
ing their consistently good games, and
a good season appears to be ahead.
Furman is the next foe on the ’Cat card.

Davidson’s Southern Conference stock
took a good rise, no doubt, with the double
track victory over V. P. I. Saturday. The
Gobblers are leaders in many Southern’ Con-
ference sports, and if the ’Cats continue to
knock off the big boys, it shouldn't be long
before Davidson is admitted to the Con-
ference.

Fleagle in the dashes, Pratt in the
high hurdles, Howard in the mile, and
Glasgow in the 440, all turned in good
times. For the Freshmen, Frazier again
took the spotlight, and kept his record
of never having been defeated on the
track spotless with firsts in the mile and
the 440. :

W. Turner, of V. P. I,-Southern Confer-
ence record holder in the indoor high jymp,
gave the stands a treat to a splendid exhi-
bition of jumping, when he cleared the bar

Wildcat Golf Team
Triumps Over W. & L.

Showing a complete reversal of form, the
Davidson golf team defeated the Washing-
ton and Lee linksmen, 11 to 7, on the Char-
lotte Country Club course last Wednesday.
It was the second match of the current sea-
son for the Wildcats.

Henry Cohen, number one for the Gen-
erals, turned in the low medal score of the
day with a card of 73, one over par. Jack
Wagner, his Davidson opponent, was next
best, carding a neat 75 with five three-putt
greens. Cohen took 2 1-2 points from Wag-
ner in their match.

Captain Tom Cadlwell displayed good
form to trim McDavid of W. & L, in the
number two match, two points to one.

Summary:

Twosomes: Cohen (W. & L.) defeated
Wagner (Davidson), 2% points to %.

Captain Caldwell (Davidson) defeated Mc-
David (W. & L.) 2 points to 1.

Manson (Davidson) halved his match with
Alexander (W. & L.) at 1% points each.

Thompson (Davidson) defeated Willard
(W.. & L.) 3 points to 0. = :

Foursomes : Wagner-Caldwell halved their

match with Cohen and McDavid at 1%
points each. ;
Thompson-Manson defeated Willard-

Alexander 2% points to 1%.

Lewis Wins Freshman
Tennis Championship

The Freshman tennis tournament was
brought to a close last week when Carlyle
Lewis defeated Martin Barnette in straight
sets, 6-1, 6-3, 6-4, for the championship.

Lewis advanced to the finals by winning
over Murray in the first round, Barringer
in the second, and Bowman in the semi-
finals. Barnette defeated Lindsay, Morrow,
and Bell, in the order named, to reach the
| finals.

In the first round, Barringer defeated
| Huntington, 6-1, 6-4; Hassell defeated W.
| Wells, 6-1, 6-2; Barnette defeated Lindsay,
|6-1, 6-2; Morrow defeated Brenizer, 6-0,
| 6-1; Bell defeated Marvin, 6-0, 6-0; Gold

| defeated Goodykoontz, 6-0, 6-3; Lewis de-
\feated Murray, 6-0, 6-0; and Bowman drew
la bye.

In the second round, Bowman defeated
Hassell, 6-2, 7-5; Bell defeated Gold, 6-2,
6-2; Barnette defeated Morrow, 6-1, 6-1;

land Lewis defeated Barringer, 6-0, 6-0.

Semi-finals: Lewis defeated Bowman, 7-5,

| 6-4, 6*3+-Barnette defeated Bell, 6-1, 6-2,

| 1-6, 2-6, 6-3.

| Finals: Lewis defeated Barnette, 6-1,
.

16-3, 6-4.

| My Greatest Thrill

AS TOLD BY FRED OGDEN

All football games are necessarily, full of
thrills, each one rivalling the other, making
it difficult to pick any certain one. But of
‘all the thrills I have experienced in foot-
jball that feeling of team-spirit. which Da-
‘yvidson had against V .P. I. in 1931 at Blacks-

at six feet, one and three-fourths inches to) jurg seems to be the greatest.

break the V. P. I. college record in this
event.

The Davidson-Duke track meet, orig-
inally, scheduled for April 1, has been
changed to May 6, and will be held on
Richardson Field. Dame Rumor hath it,
that a triangular affair, with Wake For-
est as the third participant, may be run
off at this time. Any way you. work it,
it should be a whale of a good meet
with some fast times.

While on the subject of track, and espe-
cially as it concerns the Wildcats and the
Blue Devils, we might mention that Johnny

Rrownlee, ace sprinter and hurdler at Duke, |

clipped a tenth of a second off the South-
ern Conference record for the century when
he was clocked in 9.7 seconds in a trial last
week. Fleagle ran a 9.9 hundred against V.
P. I., and last year bettered that time. It
should be a close race, and can go to either
of them.

Alex Little’s surprise showing in the
100-yard dash against the Gobblers was
a welcome sight. With the winner rip-

|
| The heavy Gobbler team was doped to

|beat us by a large margin, but our team-
L aeante during the first half backed them
lagainst their goal line several times. When
iI was sent in during the second quarter, T
could almost feel the spirit of the team:
| Every man was striving to do’ his share of
ithe work, and the team was running as
| smoothly as a machine, every man clicking
lin perfect co-ordination.

Fred Ogden is a varsity letterman, and
|cadet licutenant-colonel of the Davidson R.
!O. T. C. batallion. Fred, who is now a Senior,
hails from Mobile, Alabama.

ping it off in 9.9, Alex ran pretty close
to a 10 flat hundred.

Tennis prospects are looking up, too. With
two such figures’ of the Southern tennis
world as Halverstadt and Lafferty playing
the top positions, there is no reason why the
‘Cat netmen should not give any team plenty
|of opposition. Bryan Grant has been lost to
\the Carolina team, and Wilmer Hines has
|taken his place at number one.

Davidson Team Begins
Baseball Season With
Victory Over Catawba

Varsity Shows Good Form in 14 to 2
Victory Over the Catawba
Indians

HURLERS SHOW UP WELL

Heavy Hitting by Wildcat Nine In-
sures Well-Earned Victory

The Davidson nine opened their season
here last Thursday by defeating Catawba
15 to 2. The Wildcat aggregation showed
up well, and were led on the mound by
Pearce and Harris.

Davidson opened the scoring in the third

inning by gaining one run, but didn’t garner

the major number of their runs until the
sixth, seventh, and eighth innings. They
gained here 6, 3, and 4 runs, respectively,
thus giving them their 14 runs. In the sixth,
the Wildcats piled up their seven runs on
a single, four doubles, an error, and two free
passes. Two singles, two bases on balls, and
a sacrifice hit added three more to their
score in the seventh, while two errors, a
walk, a double and two singles topped their
scoring in the eighth.

The Catawba nine didn’t get their first
run-until the sixth inning, making it on two
singles. Their second run was: made in the
eighth in the same way. Robinson, playing
second base, was the star for the Indians,
gaining one run and three hits for his team.
The hurling for the losers was done by
Witmer and Bartner, each registering one
strikeout.

Pearce started the game for the ,Wild-
cats, and held them to one hit while strik-
ing out four men. Harris took over the
mound in the fourth inning and succeeded
in striking out five men. Both boys pitched

an excellent game, keeping the Catawha
batters well in check.
Line-up and summary:
Catawba AB R H AOE
Appainaitis, ss -s------ A Ore Ze Cue8.
Bicketthalfics.saccc cee ccs. 400) 3) 20
Robinson, 2b ~--------- a alime oncom lee
Garland, ‘cf’ ~-:-.-..--- i) ) WO Wow
Gaesateo, c —2sasese. =e G05 322 3025.20
Lippincott, rf --------- CVn I asta VE se (aed be |
Rearsoit) ib) seo ee 3. 0 0 0 10 O
AWGN eG) pee eseee ano aes 1s Of Oe Or 02
evden adbecsant2c os 2259 0: 20: <0) Oe
Bantnetap-soseenccecee ue @ WW WW
Whine, fp) Geo OG
Motalse 32.2. 6-8 25- 9
Davidson AB RH AOE
Mook pe cbics en ae hte) Lae Veto 4) base (1)
Bumgarner, 2B -....--.2 0 . 1—2—,2 -9
letelbyoyehyy [pest PHT esoP Ame Vee We) Ge (1)
1|J. G: Morrison, lf -----2 0 0 0 0 O
Mackorel lech: cascusessou se) ee 2 Or)
MOnganwnie are se re Ae al 502220:0
Ma Saag ne ek eee Soe eee ee aeey go alesen
MOPtisi lbs ccocuscessss yaa | Herter) 0)
Jee Dy Monnisony Cir-ss20) 1 ee Oren)
Wiltitleyiere se es ono 5,2 eee tO Ps)
Réancey se paca sence ae 2 052505--2—20,-.0
HM anrisiip: 2222 ecee sec eas 7 parca Fated Voces XN 4 Ose) |
Motals ices. S35 39S iN 279 a)
Score by innings:
Catawba —----_---=---<-22.000- 001" 010— 2
Davidson: 22-2 seer ea 001 007 34x—15
Two-base hits, Bumgarner, Mackorell,

Mills, Morgan, Whitley. Sacrifice hits, Mor-
gan. Struck out: By Pearce 4, by Harris 5,
by Witmer 1, by Bartner 1. Base on balls,
off Harris 1, off Bartner 2, off Witmer 3.
Hit by pitcher, Pearce, Pearson,’ Leyden,
Bartner, Peabody, Harris. Winning pitcher,
Pearce. Losing pitcher, Bartner. Umpire,
“Rube” Brandon.

Frosh Nine Defeats
Balls Creek Hi 16-6

In their first game of the season, the Wild-
kitten baseball team defeated. the Balls
Creek representatives by a score of 16 to 6,
on Friday, March 3lst. The game was played
on the Davidson diamond.

The Davidson nine connected with the
ball for a total of 14 hits, while the visitors
tallied only eight. McFayden, Kitten sec-
ond baseman, led in the hitting by getting
four hits out of five times at bat; his home
run in the second inning brought in two
runs. Partridge and Loftin, both of David-

Teams Face Difficult
Schedule This Week

With the calling of the baseball game
against Lenoir-Rhyne today, Davidson will
participate in an unusually full sports sched-
vle for the next week. At the same date
the Freshman team, will meet M. P. C. I.
at Mount Pleasant. Last year the Davidson
varsity divided honors with Lenoir-Rhyne,
defeating them 21-2 in one contest, but los-
ing the other 3-2. M. P. C. I. also shared
victories with the Freshmen last year.

On April 6 and 7, the varsity tennis team
is scheduled to play its first matches, meet-
ing Emory on the 6th at Emory, Ga., and
Furman on the 7th at Greenville, S. C.
Fmory came out on the big end of a 7-2
score last year and hope to repeat their
victory again this year. Davidson beat Fur-
man decisively last year, 9-0.

At the same time the Wildkitten net team
meets Darlington here in its first match, and
it will be a hard-earned victory if they do
not came out on top. Darlington has a fine
representation in the way of a tennis team.
The Wildkitten track team is to meet Win-
ston-Salem High Friday, filling out a full
schedule for that day, and should be able
to come out the winner.

On the 8th, Davidson meets an old foe
here, the Union Seminary of Richmond. Last
year the Preachers, aided by brilliant pitch-
ing on the part of Knox Poole, former Da-
vidson man, swamped the varsity, 12-3.
Poole is back again, according to reports,
and Davidson’ may expect a hard battle.

The varsity net team continues its south-
ern trip by meeting South Carolina on the
4th at Columbia. Last year’s Gamecock
eam beat Davidson in the first match, but
ost the second to Davidson players.

On April 10th, baseball will. again become
active when the varsity meets Catawba for
the second time. Catawba will be out for
blood after the defeat they suffered at Da-
vidson’s hands last Thursday, and it should
be a good game. Davidson continues its
baseball schedule on the 12th, when_ they
meet the Elon Christians, who eked out a
7-4 victory over Davidson last season. Da-
vidson, with an improved team, should give
them a good fight this year.

The sports schedule for this period is end-
ed with a golf match between the varsity
and Furman. There should not be much
doubt as to the outcome of this match, as
Davidson won decisive victories over the
South Carolina team last year.

son, also hit well, each getting three hits
out of five trips to the plate.

Jenkins was on the mound for Davidson
during the first four innings, and allowed
the visiting team five hits. Sanders and
Richardson pitched the remainder of the
game, the former allowing Balls Creek two
hits in three innings, and the latter, one hit
ir two innings. E. Tuttle pitched the entire
game for the losers.

The game was replete with errors,
Creek ‘making ten, and Davidson
chalked up with five.

Box score:

Balls Creek -.---- 200
Davidson. ---2_--.-- 231 261 Olx—16 14 5

Batteries: Davidson, Jenkins, Sanders,
Richardson and Parker, Moore. Balls Creek,
Tuttle and Shook.

Salls
being
R H
121 000—6 8 10

E

PICK PBEM a BMY

Varsity and Freshman
Track Teams Win With
Fifteen First Places

"KITTENS WIN, 76-41,

Turner Shatters V. P. I. High Jump
Record in Brilliant Exhibition

Davidson's Varsity and Freshman track
teams both won their second victories of
the season by defeating the V. P. I. cinder
representatives here on April 1. The Wild-
cats downed the Virginians by a 75 to 51
score, while the Freshmen defeated the V.
P. 1. yearlings 76 to 41.

The Davidson Varsity took the lead by
winning all the dashes and runs except the
two-mile and the 880-yard runs, taking two
of the three places in all events, with the
exception of the high jump and the pole
vault. In the latter, Flinn of Davidson, Eddy
of V. P, I. and C. Turner of V. P. I. all
tied for first at eleven feet. Dolan, Pittman,
and Lee, all of Davidson, tied for first to
make a clean sweep of the Freshman pole
vaulting.

W. Turner of V. P. I. le@ in the Varsity
scoring with 13 points, while Captain Fleagle
of Davidson, and Grimsley of V. P. I. tied
for second with 10 each. Fleagle took firsts
in the 100 and 220-yard dashes; Grimsley
led the field in the 880-yard run and in the
broad jump. Pritchard of V. P. I. led the
Freshman scoring with 11 points by getting
a first in the broad jump and second in the
| 100 and 220-yard dashes.

The Wildkittens took firsts in eight out
of thirteen events, Evans winning both the
220 and the 100-yard dashes, and Frazier
leading the field in the inile run and 440-
yard dash.

V. P. I’s W. Turner featured the meet
with his record performance in the javelin
throw and high jump. He threw the javelin
174. feet, to win first place and surpass the
hformer V. P. I, record by two feet. In the
high jump, Turner cleared the bar at six
feet one and three-quarter inches, and there-
by shattered his college record of six feet,
set by A. S. Turner in 1913. A Senior this
year, Turner holds the Southern Confer-
ence high jump record of six feet, and the
V. P. I. pole yault record of 12 feet 2%
inches. An injured Knee made it impossible
for him to compete in the pole vaulting last
Saturday.

The next Freshman meet is scheduled for
April 7th, when the Wildkittens will com-
pete with Winston-Salem» Hi at Davidson.

Varsity summaries:

100-yvard dash: Fleagle (Davidson) first;
A. Little (Davidson) second; Hibbert (V.

PL.) third. Time: 9.9,

Mile run: Howard (Davidson) first; Mor-
row (Davidson) second; Kline (V. P. 1.)
third. Time: 4:50.1.

220-yard dash:: Fleagle (Davidson) first:
McCallie (Davidson) second; Hibbert (V.

P. 1.) third. Time: 22.8.

Shot put: Grinus (V. P. 1.) first; Wagner
(Davidson) second; Cochran (Davidson)
third. Distanee: 42 feet, 4%-inches.

120-yard high hurdles: Pratt (Davidson)
first; McPhail (Davidson) second; Lyne (V.

P. I.) third, Time: 15.5.
440-yard run: Glasgow (Davidson) first;
Moore (V. P. I.) second; Jarvis (V. P. I.)

third. Time: 53 flat.
Discus throw: Cochran (Davidson)
(Continued on page 6)

RAB SE

first ;

e

‘' @ Dabidson Theatre

@

WEDNESDAY
“PICK UP”
GEO. RAFT — SYLVIA SIDNEY
THURSDAY
“THE MIND READER”
FRIDAY
“RASPUTIN”

JOHN BARRYMORE — ETHEL BARRYMORE
LIONEL BARRYMORE
SATURDAY
Double Feature

“FAST WORK” and “MYSTERIOUS RIDER”
MAE CLARK — JOHN GILBERT

MONDAY
“SHOULD STRANGERS MARRY”
JACK HOLT — LILIAN BOND
TUESDAY

“BONDAGE”
£3 <A ADK RAT BE SS

i TS

FSS

S™..

