THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1934 :

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Clase of 1915

Associated "Golleginte Press

i93se
‘wasConsm

1084 Goligat Bie
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Ratered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

. ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

KAD. WEEKS . 2.01 ss soe « + Ritor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... . Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Martin Barnett

Paut_ Haran ; i
Tom MarcHANt Managing Editor
he WALKER Managing Editor
arvey GLASS -------- ging Editor
LAMONT CBROWN  soccccScncccucccuce.sccee Sports Editor
Enw Bowers Exchang itor
Cagtyte Lewis Feature Editor
Scorry McLgop Feature Editor
G. L, Guterre Associate Editor
E. F. McPaau, A te Editor
B. L. Rose A iate Editor
Jack HELuNcer Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

J. B. Gosten Asst. B ss Mgr.
Vat CasseLs Asst. B ss Mgr
Tom Ross Asst. B Mor.
. S. McMuLien Asst. Business Mgr.
P. Morrow Asst. Business Mor.

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1934

Most persons would succeed in small things if-they
were not troubled with great ambitions.
—LoneFELLow.

The weather conditions for the past two or three
days certainly show indications that Sophomore
Week-End is not far off, especially the snow. It
hasn’t failed to snow or rain for the past three years
on this occasion. However, the class of ’35 feels
as though there was enough snow on the ground
during its week-end two years ago to last for many
Sophomore Week-Ends to come.

Despite the inclement weather conditions, however,
these social events have proved to be among the most
enjoyable on the social calendar and all indications

(point to another enjoyable one this week-end.

Now that the Georgia-Watts football classic is
over and all is quiet on dormitory row night life on
the campus has returned to normal again. ‘The big
game and the spirited pep meetings in anticipation
of the game proved to be very exciting and enjoy-
able. It really brought things to life around here
for a while anyway.

HELP MAKE THE Y. M. C. A.
GIFT FUND A SUCCESS T
ONIGHT

will be the second and next to the last opportunity
that Davidson College students will have to pledge
their support to the Christmas Gift Fund. A can-
vas of the dormitories was begun last night and will
continue through tomorrow night. ‘This will give
every student ample time to pledge his contribution.

Everyone is already aware of this drive being
made by the Davidson Y.M.C.A. Each year this or-
ganization sponsors a Christmas Gift Fund drive,
the proceeds of which are sent to some worthy and
needy cause. In fast years the goal of the drive
has been set at $1,000 and has been reached. How-
ever, in 1932 this amount was not obtained and con-

sequently the goal has been set at $750 for the last
two years.

As has already been announced the proceeds this
year will go toward aiding the “mountain work in
Ashe County.” Anyone who heard Reverend Ham
Stone speak at the vesper service last Sunday night
was convinced that this is a most needy cause and
one that is worthy of your contributions.

The sum of $750 should not be hard to raise
among nearly 650 students. The Y is not asking
you to give a large contribution. It is asking you to
give only what you can afford, regardless of whether
small or large. Every student at Davidson College
is a member of the Y.M.C.A. The success of the
drive is dependent upon the spirit in which the or-
ganization’s members support it. Be sure to con-
tribute your share and help reach the goal.

If you have not yet pledged your contribution you
will have another opportunity tonight and tomorrow
night.

THE OPEN FORUM
(Continued from Page 1)

number and type (outstanding in all that is best in
our church and civic life) I know that they will not
be willing to let the matter die.

Surely a father wants his son to come to him in
an honest, straightforward way, with a look straight
into his eyes, and tell him what he is thinking, and
appeal to him as a father, to see his side of things,
I would shudder for a father who would turn away
from his son at a time like this. Something would
be killed in that boy’s heart and life that no right-
thinking father could bear to have die.

It is splendid that you boys have come to the au-
thorities in this fine spirit.

We all like the frankness and honesty in the heart
of the boy who writes, “There is in the prohibition
of dancing on the campus a connivance against which
many of us secretly rebel.” Many of us parents
and friends feel exactly the same way.

Everywhere I’ve been recently I’ve heard the mat-
ter of the management of the social life at Davidson

discussed. Mothers of sons and-mothers-of-daugh-_.

ters are equally concerned about it.

With the mothers the dance is an accepted form
of entertainment, but with high standards as to how
and where the dancing shall be done.

Suppose the dances were at present being held
at Davidson and the suggestion should come to be-

gin having them twenty miles off the campus. Who
among us would like the idea?

SETHELLE Boyce Linpsay.
(Mrs. Walter Lindsay).
204 Cascade Ave.,
Winston-Salem, N. C.

MERRY CHRISTMAS,
HAPPY NEW YEAR!

W ITH this issue

we bring to a close our work on “The Davidsonian”
for the year 1934. It will be impossible to get another
issue to the students before the Christmas holidays
begin since the paper comes out in the afternoon and
the students leave for their homes at 12:30 on the
same day, Wednesday, December 19th.

We have striven in each issue to improve “The
Davidsonian.” We have tried to make it interesting
and representative of student life here on the cam-
pus, Criticism of a constructive nature is always
welcomed and appreciated. If you have a sugges-
tion to make, let it be known to a member of the
staff.

With the holidays so near at hand and the New
Year rapidly approaching, we would like to take ad-
vantage of this appropriate time to make a prophecy.
At the beginning of each year many resolutions of
good intentions are made. Very soon they are for-
gotten and no good has been accomplished by them.
However, we feel that after two weeks of holiday
and recreation we will return with renewed interest
and eager intentions of making “The Davidsonian”
in 1935 a better newspaper.

The next issue of “The Davidsonian’’ will appear
on Wednesday, January 10, 1935.

The staff would like to take this opportunity to
wish for the Davidson student body and its other
readers “A Merry Christmas and A Happy New
Year.”

PREVENT RECURRENCE '
OF PRE-HOLIDAY THEFTS E
ACH

year just before the Christmas holidays begin, there
recurs a phenomenon which has several times in the
past proved very costly to many Davidson students.

Last year, just a night or two before the holidays |

began, a wholesale robbery took place in North and
South dormitories tesulting in the theft of dozens
of suits, overcoats, shoes and other miscellaneous
wearing apparel. The thieves proved to be out:
siders and, luckily enough, were tracked down by
blood hounds a few miles from here, most of the
clothes being recovered. Similar thefts occurred
at the same time in one or two of the other dormi-
tories. The same thing has happened for several
years in succession except that the robberies were
more scattered and on a smaller scale.

Outsiders who are capable of committing such
deeds are aware of.the fact that at this particular
time students are in a gay frame of mind over going
home and are prone to be somewhat careless about
the way they leave their rooms and the valuables
contained in them. They also know that things
have been gotten in readiness to take home and
that money has been secured. for transportation.

Let us this year prevent the recurrence of such
a thing; Be on the lookout for prowlers and strangers
who do not belong on the campus. And above all,
be careful about where you leave yqur money and
other valuables and be sure to lock your doors when
you leave the room.

“SELECTED

PAPERS
of :

PHINEAS SPOON.”
“THE AUDACITY OF UTOPIA”

The only substantial difference between
Man and the lesser animals is a peculiar
genius for rebellion.

Cows are forever cows. There is really
no historical evidence to show that the
bovine ilk has ever become incensed
at its estate in the appointed scheme
of things. Abraham had a flock of heif-
ers, once upon a time. He threw them
corn—and Abraham had contented cows.
Today, because 5,000 years have passed,
do their progeny agitate for cake? No,
they still crunch corn—and like it! Cows
don’t mutiny.

What is true of cows pertains to
amoebas, zebras, and other creatures less
than men, They have quietly acquiesced
in the fiat of creation with a uniform
passivity.

But the story of Mankind is the story
of rebellion. It tells of a giant offensive
against the natural order fought on a
thousand fronts. Acquiescence is not
the portion of human flesh. Each day
there is some new evidence to show that
Mankind’s work of revamping the state
of nature is both incessant and, to a
limited degree, successful.

A cow, with her submission to the
constraints of circumstance, pays lackey
homage to Nature’s tyranny. Man, on
the other hand, is éenobled by his re-
sistance to the same.

If men were content to merely im-
prove their status, if they could be sat-
isfied with becoming better men it would
require surprisingly little effort to show
that men have an’ edge on cows.

gods. Since his first intimation of mor-
tality, man has had agonizing perceptions
of the great gulf fixed between himself
and’ Mount Olympus. The obsession
seems to be that man’s destiny leads
up into the stars. With a damnable au-
dacity, the human heart hankers for
perfection. Among the myriad orbs of
the Milky Way there gyrates, in a minor
solar system, a negligible planet. On this
pea of a body there creeps a race of
men. But parasites who do not know
themselvés for what they are. Who, hav-
ing contrived to ameliorate in some
measure the grievous pain of their nat-
ural difficulties, address themselves to the
problem of their positive elimination...

It seems to me that the gods some-
where must be amused. There should
certainly be a sardonic humor in the
sight of funny little men so pompously
bent upon an improvised millenium.

How can this preposterous conceit of
Man be doubted? See how persistent has
been his secret longing for perfection.
Wherever there has been the semblance
of human thought there have been men
who in sundry ways have sought escape
from térrestial limitations into the per-
fection of some premature paradise.

In a grey dawn of pseudo-science,
medieval alchemists wracked their wits
and juggled their patients in a quest for
the Philosopher’s Stone. What was their
purpose — the reduction of human en-

*|cumbrances? Nothing so picayune! They

aimed to discover some formula by use
of which the limitations of flesh could be
transcended. They sought to inaugurate
a new dispensation where milk and honey
would come by a wish. These abject
creatures were tired of being slightly
“lower than the angels.” They conspired
to storm the very gates of heaven.
What drove Ponce de Leon to gamble
life and fortune on trackless seas in an
expedition to the “new world?” The
lurid fancies of European dreamers at-
tributed to a continent of mystery extra-
mundane qualities: Ponce de Leon re-
flected the inherent rapacity for the un-
attainable. He was in search of a mys-
tic water of such properties as would
vouchsafe immunity from death.

How cravenly Men have schemed for
release from the temporal. The Sons
of Tantalus have agonized their souls
in an eternal effort to appropriate the
things which have not been provided. The
quest has been for an abracadabra of
transport into the land of splendid inde-
fectibility.

There are limits beyond which Man's
most ardent spirit, his most artful con-
trivance cannot carry him. In aspiring
to the transcendental there is an audacity
incongruous with the wretched stuff out
of which Man is fashioned. Man’s des-
tiny is linked with flesh and its inherent
limitations. He was made to creep
through three dimensions charged with
death, decay, and defalcation.
..When_obsessions of divinity provoke
the human mind to stfain for New Je-
rusalem, my hat goes off to cows. The
self-effacement of the cow is its prover-
bial weakness. But, still, the cow makes
no pretence of a thwarted destiny. After
all there is virtue in acquiescence to the
inevitable.

PHINEAS. Spoon.

’
Scientist Einstein would have no
examinations in his ideal university,
no drilling of the memory. ‘It would
be mainly a process of appeal to the
senses in order to draw out delicate

reactions,” he says.

But, men have always aspired to be

COMPASSING
the,

By Scorry McL£op

Varying our usual mode of procedure
in writing this column, we begin today
a series of weekly character sketches
which shall be known as Campus Per-
sonalities. Our first victim will be the
one student at Davidson that everybody
knows—and the one person who knows
everybody else. We shall not state here
whether Sor not this is a fortunate ‘cir-
cumstance. However, gentlemen, we give
you Mr. Brown:

= Note the combed
hair, the un-
plucked eye-
brows, lack of
mascara, the
pointed ears, the
ever-present tie,
the ridged nose,
the staring eyes,
and other evi-
dences of true
character and
trained gentle-
manliness. Such
is the facial mask of Brown.

Football and radio announcer of note,
forensic head, scholar, ever and anon
the campus wag, writer of Phineas
Spoon’s immortal papers, president of
Beta, presider at, many meetings, great
traveler — the things exemplify the life
of Brown.

When first approached for an exclusive
interview Skip made this unequivocable
statement: “When I was a little boy I
had an avid appetite for spinach; to this
I attribute my masculine virility.” The
best of us have misconceptions.

He doesn’t chew. Prefers Edgeworth
smoking tobacco. Has his moments.

“The Skipper” intends to study law at
Columbia University for the next three
years, then to practice criminal law in
New York City for about five years;
at the conclusion of which period he has
said that he would consider accepting the
position”of district attorney of New York
County. Notice he did not commit him-
self to a direct statement. He merely
said he would consider the job.

Following is a brief quizzing interview
which the C, C. reporter has recorded:

Q. Mr. Brown, do you believe that
sassafras tea is an efficacious remedy
for sustained lumbago?

A. Your question is a reasonable one,
Mr. McLeod, and is tersely put. My feel-
ing is that a majority of our bodily com-
plaints have their_origin in the imagina-
tion. This fact is evidenced, for ex-
ample, by the frequency with which a boy
on the eve of an undesired date myster-
iously contracts an incapacitating illness.

Q. Do you believe in love at first
sight?

A. If you mean in the realm of the
duck-billed platibus I would answer defi-
nitely in the affirmative. It is a notorious
fact that although on other: occasions the
duck-bill is a timorous beastie yet when
it comes to matters of love its feelings
are motivated by the wildest impetuosity.

Q. ‘What do you think of parking
autos?

A, I think that if the prevalence of in-
active vehicles in dark places is due to
defects in the automotive machinery,
then thé technfcal proficiency which is
supposed to typify this age is a gross
overstatement.

Thank you, ‘Mr. President.

Brown was captain of the tennis team
his freshman year, is a member of most
honorary fraternities on the hill, and
once roomed with Oscar Bethea. The
New Jersey lad is making one of the
best student body presidents that we have
ever had at Davidson, in the opinion of
many. 3

OUR
ontemporartes

By En Bowers

Washington and Lee ;
Miss Gertrude Stein, who thinks that

a rose is a rose is a rose, and who be-
lieves in herself for herself because
she is just herself a writer, will speak at
the University of Virginia, an elephant
beaten with candy, on January 8th. Along
with Miss Stein will also come her in-
separable companion and bodyguard, °
Alice B. Toklas, about whom Miss Stein

{| wrote an autobiography last year for

Miss Stein who monopolizes the contents
while Miss Toklas, swept away by the
domination of Miss Stein, merely looked
on.

On Wednesday afternoon after the last
practice of the Generals, the entire foot-
ball team descended en masse on_ the
Sophomore and Junior football managers
and as a good luck token before the game
with the South Carolina Gamecocks,
threw them one by one into the icy
waters of the swimming pool—a _pre-
Saturday bath.

University of South Carolina
(The following news was taken from

“The .Gamecock”’)

Around Converse College there seems
to be much discussion concerning the dis-
missal of Professor P. A. Carmichal,
professor of philosophy, on charges of
teaching in such a manner as to disturb
the religious beliefs of students of that
region and community of Spartanburg.
Recent press reports state that Converse
will not be put upon the black list of
the A.A.U.P. pending action to be taken
by the authorities at Converse to cor-
rect conditions there for which the asso-
ciation indicated the school. It seems as
though the institution violated two of the
association’s rules of (1) tenure and (2)
academic freedom.

Hampden-Sidney
In the Hampden-Sidney “Tiger” a

large headline read: “Dances Hugh Suc-
cess, Declare Inebriated German Club
Guests.” There followed a long list of
the guests. Directly under this story was
an article announcing a prize to be given
by the W.C.T.U. for the best essay on

“The Value of the Total Abstinence
from Alcoholic Drinks.” :
State College

A proposal submitted by the Senior

Class to the general faculty assembled
to exempt seniors from examinations all
three terms was voted down by that body
by a two to one vote. Following the veto
sentiment ran high among the Senior
class members and there was heard ru-
mors of a strike as an effort to carry
their point. The feeling for a strike sub-
sided a short time later. The Seniors
did not think that their petition was
given a fair hearing by the faculty who
referred it to a committee for further
consideration. At present, the Seniors
are exempted from the last quarter’s ex-
aminations. _
Colleginia

Students at Tulane vote for their dance
orchestras . . . The University of Mis-
souri football team has scored only one
touchdown since Frank Carideo, former
Notre Dame star, took over the job last
year ... Northwestern University is of-
fering a course called “Bull Session A,”
and the University of Washington inaug-
urated one on “Bluffing” ... The Wash-
ington and Lee faculty added two extra
days to the Christmas vacation... At
Northwestern the men have formed a
knitting club... At the University of
Alabama a girl has enrolled in the box-
ing class .. . A Georgia Tech student
amused himself by shooting pins at the
dancing dames in an Atlanta burlesque
theatre. In court the presiding judge
expressed his intention of examining the
wounds before passing judgment ... A
girls’ orchestra is being formed at
Queens-Chick by Joe Roman...

\ON THE HILL: The mighty Cen-
tennial class continues its scintillating
undergraduate career with plans for a
great Soph Week-End. Drifting down
with the pure white snow last Monday
came many yellowed sheets of’ paper
publicizing thé Centennial Dances. Drop-
ped from an overhead airplane, numbers
of students scampered eagerly after the
yellow squares only to be disappointed in
finding the Sophomore notes. It will be
worthy of this class of ’37 if they pre-
sent a week-end one-third as good as
did their immediate predecessor.

From DAVIDSONIANS
dd IT WAS NEWS ee ae of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Juniors sponsor Christmas house par-
ty . . . Glee Club and Orchestra give
program over WBT.. . . Nineteen var-
sity football men receive letters . . .
Y.M.C.A. to give banquet for Freshmen
class ... . Eight men taken in by the
Phi Beta Kappa .. . Dean Carroll of U.
N. C. speaks to economic students .. .
Twenty-two freshmen receive numerals.

TEN YEARS AGO z
Davidson will benefit from generosity
of J. B. Duke . .. Will receive a mini-
mum of $75,000 per year .. . Ninety men
get bids into fraternities . . . Glee Club’s
first performance here scores a big hit

. .. Emory defeats Davidson in Forsenic
frag ... Wildcats to play Concord “Y”
quintet in first basketball game of season
. . . Chief Alaskan speaks to R.O.T.C.
unit .. . Edgar C. Rames gives lecture
here on Alaskan tour’... Dr. William
Currell speaks at Phi Beta Kappa ini-
tiation. :

TWENTY YEARS AGO

Asheville High defeats Huntersville on
Davidson gridiron . . . Dr. Arbuckle ad-
dresses Y.M.C.A. . . . Twelve letters
awarded to varsity football men...
Wildcats to debate Clemson and Emory
in near future . . . Davidson responds
to call for aid by Red Cross...

|
