* Monday.

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

SEPTEMBER 19, 1934

THE DAVIDSONIAN |

Founded by the Class of 1916

MEMBER

Associnted Golleginte Press
as CB 5

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” .

PHated by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m.,
Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed,

. Editor
Manager

Kir DaWEHBKS 72.540 6s ba
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... . Busine

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19,

“1934

In pursuing great things you may miss things close
at hand.—Euripides.

SHORTER RUSHING
PERIOD

The shortened rushing season of this year has
caused quite a bit of comment. Some say that it is
altogether too short, and others say that it should still
be shortened. It is generally conceded that this period
is a disrupting element for both upperclassmen and
freshmen, in that it delays the normal settling down
Some freshmen get behind in their
upper-

of students,
work to start with, along with most of the
classmen members of fraternities. In fact,
is not really in its proper stride until rushing season

school

is over,

“This question like all others is one that has two
sides to it, each having its advantages and disad-
vantages. If the shortened period of rushing, which
was cut to seven days and nights this year as com-
pared with twOvweeks~in~previous~years;—was in-
stalled in order to get school to running in normal
routine quicker, then it will probably be a success
from that standpoint. But the question in doubt is
this: Will this advantage be such as will offset the
confusion and possible mistakes that the fraternities
and freshmen run the risk of ?

There are nine fraternities on the campus at the
present. It is plain to see that with only seven days
of rushing it is impossible for a rushee to get around
to them all even once. Of course, we are under the
assumption and believe that the majority of the
chapters here at Davidson are highly desirous of the
night time in which to do their most important rush-
ing. It is true that it is quite unusual for a man to
consider as many as nine fraternities, but’ even
though he had eliminated all but two or three the
time would still be inadequate to make/nore than
one or two visits to a fraternity, Only/in exception-
al cases is this sufficient time for a/prospective stu-
dent or a fraternity to make a decision, and both
parties run the risk of making/mistakes.

Some schools allow three-days for rushing, others
two weeks, which is the most generally used, others
a semester, and still othérs don’t allow pledging until
the sophomore year. It is evident from this that
the question is one that has caused much comment
and consideration.

If the old system must be changed, we would
rathef see the rushing period deferred until the be-
ginning of the second semester. This would give
both parties concerned ample time in which to be-
come thoroughly familiar with each other. This
should not mean, however, that the whole of the
first semester could be used for rushing. Certain
dates, such as houseparty week-ends could be ap-
pointed for this purpose by the Pan-Hellenic Coun-
cil and the faculty. This, of course, would call for
strict assurance and codperation from all the frater-
nities certifying that they would not pledge or make
any attempts: at pledging until the specified time at
the beginning of the second semester.

This, we believe, would do away with all the dis-
advantages of the system installed this year. It
would do away with much confusion, and its most
decided advantage would be that of determining a
man’s character, his scholastic ability and his other
traits which this amount of time would undoubtedly
bring out.

It is true that all the fraternities have not yet en-
dorsed the new system nor have they condemned it.
It has been more or less a sort of novelty to them
and as yet have not considered it very seriously.

We believe that if the present duration of rushing
season is made permanent it will prove undesirable,
and a change will be highly desirable.

We hope the student body will bear with us on
this first issue of THE DavinpsoniaAn. This first issue
is appearing a little earlier than in previous years
and the staff was somewhat handicapped due to the
general unsettled condition and rush that always
prevails during the first week of school. We are
hoping to be able to improve on future issues.

TO. THE CLASS
OF 1938

Its not the purpose of this editorial to again wel-
come you to Davidson College. That welcome has
already been exemplified to you by the faculty and
by the three upperclasses, and we Teel sure that
everyone of you by this time has experienced the
realization of that fact. You have been orientated
and introduced to college life by a series of most
beneficial talks, and we do not wish to go through
all of that again. However, there are a few facts
which may have already been presented to you that
we would like to emphasize and impress upon you.

You are no longer the high school boy that most
of you were a year ago today; you are men—col-
lege men. You must adapt yourselves to a new life,
Davidson College. We say Davidson College life in
order to give it a mark of distinction, for it is vast-
ly different from campus life at many other schools.

Ifere at Davidson you will find that there per-
vades above all other traits an atmosphere of friend-
liness, gentlemanly deportment, and courtesy. ‘These
traits have been established here by classes that have
gone ahead of you, so far ahead that its reputation
has had time to become known all over the United
States. We urge you not to hide behind its reputa-
tion but to begin your first year at Davidson by put-
ting its ideals and traditions into practice ever striv-
ing to carry them to higher levels.

Remember that you are the most djnportant class
More is expected of you than any other
class because you have four years ahead of you in
which to reflect upon the reputation of the school.

in school.

While you are first year men be Freshmen! Don’t
try to cover up this fact and don’t try to,escape the
few mild freshmen regulations that you are subject
to. Nearly every alumnus of this college, if he
were asked, would tell you that the days he spent as
a freshman were the most pleasant of his college
career, He would also in all probability tell you that
this was true, because his experiences during that
year had proved invaluable to him.
your three years as an upperclassman will be de-
termined to a great extent by the results of your
first year, t f

The success of

Begin now, and discharge the tasks of each day
as best you can so that you will be able to look back
upon your freshman days with satisfaction and
pleasant memories.

IMPROVEMENTS
ON CAMPUS

It is needless to say here how pleasantly surprised
all the students were On returning to school and
finding so many wonderful and much yearned for
inyprovements made on the campus during the sum-
mer months. The grounds and dormitories have
taken on an entirely different aspect from that of
last year, So many and such costly repairs and im-
provement have been made that the old place was
hardly recognizable when we got back to school about

a week ago.

We need not enumerate in detail the many re-
sults accomplished during the vacation period in
order to show where the $25,000 @xpended went to.
The hard-surfaced walks and roads, the work done
on the dormitories including the new lighting sys-
tem, the painting and redressed floors in all the
rooms, the new equipment such as new beds and
dressers, the new locking system and the ‘complete
renovation of Old Georgia are ample evidence to
prove that value has been received for the large
amount of money spent.

There shall certainly be no more comment forth-
coming in this paper on the subject of sloppy walks
and muddy roads which used to be a much over-
used source for editorials. VProbably the most grati-
fying and most keenly appreciated improvement was
the fixing of the eight foot walk-way in front of
dormitory row and also the paving of the roads run-
ning through the campus. The hard-surfacing of
the walks and roads has not been completed in en-
tirety, but due to the frequent rains that we have
already had the satisfaction that will be ours when
they are finished is being greatly anticipated.

The installing of the indirect lighting system
which called for the purchase of 272 Illuminating
Engineering Society lamps was one of the most
valuable things. done this summer. EVery student
in school has been afforded’ the advantages of this
scientific lighting device. We should feel more than
proud for the progress that has been made here in
that field, because Davidson College has the distine-
tion of being the first college in the United States to
completely equip the dormitories with the I. E. S.
study and reading lamps. In doing this a situation
has been remedied which heretofore has resulted in
harming the vision of 44 per cent (according to
statistics) of the graduates of colleges.

The addition of the Yale cylinder locks to all the
room doors was another valuable improvement.
When we lock our doors now we can leave our valu-
ables in our room with a feeling of security.

With these many improvements behind us we now
look to the inauguration of our Centennial Building
Program which when completed will leave: David-
son College second to none in the rank of schools.

C'OMPASSING
the,

‘CAMPUS

By Scorry McLrop

A total enrollment of 642 students, in-
cluding freshmen and the mighty Cen-
tennials! It is the largest student body
that Davidson has ever had in its ninety-
eight sessions, and we hope it will be the
best. Under the capable leadership of
Skip Brown, we ought to go places this
year. The new men have already shown
their splendid spirit of coéperation in
the few pep meetings that have been
held, and in their ready response to the
call for erecting the bleachers. It’s the
traditional Davidson SPIRIT that never
fails and reste dies.

GRID COMMENT

In spite of a traditional triumph over
the Elon team, the ‘Cats can always ex-
pect plenty of spirited competition from
those boys. What the Davidson squad
will need than anything else is
PEP, and plenty of it, from the side-
lines.  nthusiastic cheering from the
student body will do more than anything
else to win a Davidson football game,
and the college body must supply that
cheering to the last down, Let's win the
Elon game from the Wildeat cheering
section!

more

AFTER* ELON

In honor of the victory which we ex-
pect to win over Elon, the Pan-Hellenic
Council, the Davidson inter-fraternity7]
hoard, will sponsor an “ELON DANCE”
at the Hotel Charlotte on Saturday night
this week. Music will be by Stubby
Taylor and his Green Park Hotel or-
Blowing Rock. Tickets
will be $1.50 and may be purchased from
This is the first
dance of the year, and the
last before Homecoming.

DAVIDSON GETS AIR

Again this year Charlotte’s prize sta-
tion, WBT, will) broadcast’ a weekly
“Davidson program”, Now that we have
radios in the dormitories we can hear
this broadeast in our rooms,  A-hem.,
Next Monday night Grier Martin, di-
rector of the air-waves for the college,
plans to present Coaches Newton and
McEver, together with Captain Johnny
Mackorell, to Davidson's public. It’s to
be an all-football program as you might
gather from the cast, and ought to spill

chestra from
any Council member.
Davidson

some dope on how the coaches feel about
the 1934 grid schedule.

ANENT RUSH SEASON

From the standpoint of the freshmen
as well as that of the upperclassmen the
new abbreviated rushing season seems to
he a most objectionable experiment. A
six-day rushing season is a great handi-
cap to the freshman in view of the fact
that there are nine fraternities on the
Hill, and about thirty men in each lodge.
Considering this fact, it is almost impos-
for the rushee to carefully and
rationally look over even four or five of
the societies in a six-day period of in-
spection, At the same time, it is a diffi-
cult task for all the members of the
several fraternities to decide within a
few whether or not certain of
their rushees would make desirable and
congenial brothers. This column, there-
fore, voices a serious protest to the idea

sible

days

of such-a brief session of rushing; and
we implore of the college authorities
that they extend the period in» future
sessions of the college. It seems to us
that a period of two or three weeks
would make a much more suitable and
desirable rushing season.

OUR ODD TEAM
about our football squad:
Smiths, no Jones’, no

Oddities
‘There are no
Browns and no Johnsons on the team;
but there are five Johnstons! Count
‘em: Big Six Johnston, tackle; Jim
Johnston, end; Swede Johnston, back;
Dick Johnston, guard; and Joe John-
ston, end, Furthermore, here is a fact
that shows where Davidson draws _ its
outstanding gridders from: Every player
on the varsity team this year, and every
letterman is from the state of North
Carolina! Midget Verble is the shortest
man on the squad; he measures exactly
five feet four inches, And, in contrast,
Van Patterson who is the tallest boy in
school is six feet four inches up in the
air. Runt Peabody and O. F. Johnston
each weigh only 140 pounds, while, on the
other side of the scales, Tubby Hand
tips off at 238 pounds.

TWADDLE AND PALAVER: Ho-
tel Georgia is sans frosh this year and
the gug¢sts. there must yell to Watts or
West to secure a laundry-hauler

Starting a NEW PAGE of a Fine Old Story

i]
|

AN

RRR

GY! A

LZ

66 99 From DAVIDSONIANS
IT WAS NEWS... of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Wildcats conquer Elon eleven as visi-
tors resort to strong aerial attack. Score
20-6... . New $600,000 Chambers Build-
ing will be occupied in its entirety for
the first time... . . Thad Brock is new
leader for Davidson gridmen. . . . Dr.
Walter L. Lingle of Richmond, Va., is
new Davidson president. Chapel
period changed this year from 8:30
o'clock to 10:45... . The day of silence
in fraternity rushing was inaugurated.

TEN YEARS AGO

‘The Maxwell Chambers Hotel on De-
pot Street was formally opened.
Christening of Richardson Field sees de-

feat of Christians by Wildcats 14-0... .
Six new tennis courts are under con-
struction, . . . History breaking enroll-
ment exceeds six hundred. . . . Twenty-
six Davidson men attended camp at Fort
MeClellan,
FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

One hundred fifty men were in. the in-
firmary with flu... Pres, Wilson and
Newton D. Baker sent messages to the
ceremony inaugurating the Student Army
Training Corps at Davidson. . . . Wm.
Jennings Bryan visits Davidson Campus.

. Lieut. Pressly R, Brown, Davidson
graduate, was the first officer from Meck-
lenburg County to give his life for the
Allied cause in France.

OUR
ontemporaries

University of Tennessee

“Take a look,” said Major Robert D.
Neyland, head coach at the University of
‘Tennessee, “you will tind there is no
Dodd, no
no Melver,

Hackman, and
This is a great tribute to
our Coach McEver as his former coach

Feathers, no

was being interviewed by a sport's writer
several days ago. ‘The Vols have a
tough schedule this year for they play
some of the strongest teams in the Kast
including Centre, Fordham, Mississippi
State, Vanderbilt, Kentucky, and Louis-
jana State.
University of Georgia

The Bulldogs are undergoing
strenuous workouts as their private train-
ing quarters at Tallulah Falls, Georgia.
Coach Harry Mehre fs brushing them up
on some old plays and fundamentals,

some

Washington and Lee University

George Sykes, an Alumnus of W & L
who died last Monday, is accredited with
having thrown the first curve ball in
Southern Collegiate baseball. Back cin
1878 he uncorked a, curve vs. the Uni-
versity of Virginia to lead the team to
victory by a 12-0 score. There are only
three other members of this team that
survive today.
The Citadel

The recently completed swimming pool
on the campus of the South Carolina
school was formally opened last week
when members of the faculty and stu-
dent body were allowed to swim for the
first time.
was started with the aid of PWA funds.
The original plans included a glass in-
closed housing for the winter swim-
ming, but due to the lack of funds it
has not been started. The pool is mod-
ern in every respect. It is 45 feet by
105 feet and ranges in depth from four
to nine feet. The water capacity of the
pool is 250,000 gallons of water. There
are four spring boards and a high diving
tower,

The construction of the pool

|POTTER HEADS R. O. T. C.

(Continued from Page 1)

J. W. Hassell; Cadet Sgts., R. P. Mor-
row, J. R. Pearce, J. H. Ross, R. C.
Sours, L. T. Purnetl, W. B. Hunter, G,
A, Leukel, H. A. Cathey.

Company “D".; J. M. Douglas, Cadet
Captain; Cadet Ist Lts., B. L. Rose, G,
L. Green, R. L. Orr, T. H, Sutton; Ca-
det 2nd Lts., C. C. Harris, F. R. Hillier,
S. L. Jetton, J. M. Smith; Cadet Ist.’
Set. J. M. Hodgin; Cadet Sgts. W. M.
Beaty, W. L. Brown, J. L. Dees, A. A.
Kuhn, C. B. Lewis, W. M. Taylor, C. L.
Mann, J. C. Cothran.

R. O. T. C. Band: A M, Cunningham,
Cadet Captain; Cadet Ist Lts., J. A. C.
Robinson, W. L. Northen; Cadet Ist
Sets., E. C. Wooten, Cadet Sgts., J. B.
Huntington, E. C. Johnson.

ALUMNI CHOOSE
JOHNSTON

(Continued from Page 1)

he no alumni association to bother. He
Was quite ready to admit, however, (as
we all are) that the intentions of the
alumni, individually and collective, are
good. It’s just the misguided activities
that cause embarrassment.

“The college needs the help of the
alumni, and the alumni need the college.
There should be some way for the two
to draw nearer—not as two thunder
clouds that must discharge their light-
ning as they approach too near, but in
a spirit of comradeship and mutual un-
derstanding.

WRITER PRAISES BAND

(Continued from Page 1)

one Piccolo, one Flute, one Oboe, two
Flugel Horns, one Bassoon, one Eb
Clarinet, one Double French Horn, one
Bell Euphonium, two Herald Trumpets,
one Bass Trombone, two Street and
Military Drums, one pair of Tympani or
Kettle,Drums, one 25 bar Glocke Enspiel,
one Tuning Bar, one set of Orchestra
Bells, one Xylophone, two Practice
Pianos, one Crash Cymbal, one pair of
Hand Cymbals, one Cello, and two

String Basses.

|

STATIONERY

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

) CALLING
Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY
PRINTING Co.

Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and of
the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL

CARDS PROGRAMS

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

