THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1934

°

The PDabidsontan

FOUNDED BY THE: CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated Gollegiate Press
= S>=

3 1933 (waiom Covent) 1934 &

* Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

hands of Managing Editors
Letters to the Editor are
communications intended for publication

Articles for publication must be in the
y 4: o'clock p. m., Monday.
welcome, but al
must be signed.

=
ODI_CASALI_....

Editor
W. T. JOHNSON. B
EDITORIAL STAFF as =
G. L. GULLETTE... M. ing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL. Managing Editor
B. L, ROS M ing Editor
K. D, WEEKS... Managing Editor
vee HELLINGER.....-- Alumni Editor
AWLING PRATT-THOMAS. Editorial Writer
5 A. HUNTER....--. Exch Editor
. B. BAILEY Feature Editor
S. K. EATON... ane Feature Editor
Cc. S. McCALL. Feature Editor
L. W. CLARDY... s A Editor
A. F. SCHENCK A Editor
W._M. THOMPSON... A Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR. A Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
G, L. GREEN.............. As Manag
W. _L. SPRUNT. sé A t M
. R. TAYLOR A M
. A. C. WADSWORTH.....-.-...---- Assistant Manag

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1934

The victory of success is half won when one gains
the habit of work.—Sarah A. Bolton.

ON MILITARY TRAINING

Commentators in the state are of the opinion
that the Trustees of Davidson College acted
wisely when they approved the recommendation
to make Military Training at Davidson optional
with the students.

This is what some of the editorial writers had
to say about the action:

’

An editorial in the “Charlotte Observer” says:
“The Davidson College Trustees have settled the
controversy about military training in a prac-
tical manner. The system will be continued, but
not on compulsory basis, as students whose par-
ents desire, will be exempted—and we anticipate
that few instances of the sort will develop. The
people have come to distinguish between mili-
tarism and military preparedness, for there is a
difference. ‘There is a distinction between: mili-
tary training for defense and military training
for offense, and the training given at Davidson
is not of the latter class. Then there is the ad-
vantage of physical upbuilding. This training
puts young men in fine physical condition, and
that alone makes it worth while. Davidson is
all the finer college to send young men to be-
cause of this particular feature.”

The “Greensboro News” expressed a similar
opinion in an editorial comment on the matter.
“Trustees of Davidson College have acted wise-
ly, we think, in making military training at the
college optional. Heretofore the student has had
to participate in the R. O. T. C. work, but here-
after he can do as his parents desire.

“There are many benefits to be derived from
this military training, but at the same time it is
not difficult to understand.why it has objection-
able features for many parents, and it is not so
essential, we think, that it should’ exclude the
student who doesn’t want to participate. Many
parents who are not conscientious objectors had
rather their sons were not given such training,
and they have contended in the past that their
sons should not be denied the other privileges
and benefits to be found at Davidson because of
this objection. The ruling of the Trustees, we
predict, will find hearty commendation among
the majority of the Davidsdon alumni, supporters
and well wishers.”

Here’s what Julian S. Miller, “Charlotte Ob-
server” columnist, had to say about it: “Com-
pulsory military training in church coleges is
a hot brick that requires the shrewdest sort of
hands to. handle. :

“Many churehmen, preaching the overtones of
peace, consider it an arm of the military estab-
lishment and are, therefore, hostile.

“Davidson College has made admirable dispo-
sition of the issue: by leaving the gate open for
future students to step aside if they elect not to
engage in this definition of physical education.

“If this training, by actual instruction or by
suggestion, invests the mind of youthhood with
the instincts of war, it is unwholesome.

“If, on the other hand, it is accepted and en-
gaged in as a species of physical development, it
is immensely beneficial and virtuous.”

The “Davidsonian” also considers the action of
the Trustees in the matter wise. The optional
clause will have little effect upon the R. O. T. C.
here—that is, it will not noticeably reduce the
number of students taking the course—! but it
will permit students who were objectors but fa-
vored Davidson otherwise, to come to school
here.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLUB
Another success has been scored for Davidson
College. At an invitation extended to the South-
eastern Students InternationalRelations~ Clubs
at their annual conference in Hattiesburg, Miss.,
by Lyman Clardy, President of the Davidson. In-

‘ternational Relations Club, the decision was

made to hold this conference at Davidson in
1935. D. D. McBryde, President of the Davidson
club during the last school year, and Grier Mar-
tin, at present Alumni Secretary of Davidson,
had long attempted to have this conference held
at Davidson, and this acceptance comes as a re-
ward to these three men’s efforts.

This is a distinct advantage to Davidson. This
conference will bring many outstanding speakers
on international affairs from over the East, and
approximately 125 student representatives will
be present.

The Southeastern Students International Clubs
includes states all the way from Kentucky
through Mississippi, down to and including Flor-
ida. Davidson has been sending representatives
to these conferences, but this year the distance
was too great, and the conference being held
here next year will mean a great advantage to
the Davidson club. This local organization’s
Outstanding work in this field is pointed out by
the acceptance of the conference to held its meet-
ing here next year.

DR. MACARTNEY

The student’ body has recently received one
of the most valuable benefits which can come
to a group. of modern students, namely, the se-
ries of lectures delivered by Dr. Macartney. No
greater tribute could have been paid to the
speaker throughout the entire series than the
way in which his messages were received by the
student body. The*attendance, which is shown
by actual record to have been much better than
the average chapel attendance, and the undivided
attention which prevailed throughout are indi-
cations of the value which the students placed
upon the services.

It is seldom that the student body is able to
hear a speaker of Dr. Macartney’s type, a man
so representative of the modern leader, the pro-
found thinker, and the devout Christian. The
response to his messages shows that the over-
whelming majority realize and appreciate the op-
portunity of listening to one who typifies so
completely the modern Christian scholar.

Dr. Macartney throughout ‘his addresses
showed himself to be well read and quite abreast
of modern times in nearly every respect. Yet he
was absolutely free from the radicalism so often
found in the so-called modernists and scholars.
His addresses proved him to be an unconditional
defender of the Faith, a Christian of the active
type, steadfast and immovable in his beliefs and
in his life.

The Otts Foundation, which is responsible for
providing the series of addresses, performed a
wonderful service in procuring Dr. Macartney as
speaker. He is a prominent leader in the North-
ern Presbyterian Church, and is recognized by
all as one of the most outstanding ministers in
the®€hurch. His record of service in his own
church in Pittsburgh speaks of his character and
his value to Christianity.

Dr. Macartney was given a year’s notice to
prepare for the series of lectures he delivered at
Davidson. His addresses showed careful prep-
aration and unusually good organization and
unity. He had a great responsibility in organ-
izing and delivering so important a message to
a college group. He fulfilled this responsibitity
in such a way that it was received as few others
have been.

The reception of the lectures proves that the
spiritual side of life still has its place in the
make-up of modern youth. Much could be done
to develop the spiritual side if speakers like Dr.
Macartney were available-more frequently,

—E. F. McP.

Here and There

By A HUNTER
WASHINGTON AND LEE

Permission from the Dean’s office must be ob-
tained by any man wishing to engage in any
major extra-curricula activity, athletic or non-
athletic, according to a resolution passed at the
regular bi-weekly meeting of the faculty at
Washington and; Lee. The resolution,: which
will become effective March 4, does not change
the former activity rulings, but provides for
their enforcement.

DALHOUSIE

You have heard of hearts’ of various types, but
now you are going to be introduced to a rubber
heart. Dr. Gibbs, of Dalhousie University, has
been able to place rubber hearts in cats by sur-
gical operation. These hearts are in the nature
of rubber pumps, and their sole function is to
keep the blood in motion, apparently all that is
necessary for hearts to do. He! he! tough on
heart-breakers,

Honorary Fraternit
Will Be Theatre Host

Five Films Pertaining to Physics
Will Be Shown

Alpha Chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma,

national honorary physics fraternity,

will be host to a theater party at the |

Davidson Theatre Thursday, March 1.
Five films pertaining to physics have
been loaned by the General Electric
Company of Philadelphia, and will be
shown at 3 o'clock. The program will
last about two hours.

Although the pictures will be ‘nter-
esting to students of physics, they are
not technical and will be entertaining
to everyone who comes. The titles of
the different films are “Walter Dam-
rosch,” “Liquid Air,” “Brighter Times
Ahead,” and “Years Ahead in Weld-
ing.”

The Messrs. Stough of the Davidson
Theatre have kindly consented to show
the pictures and everyone is cordially
invited to attend.

Faculty-Student Golf
Match to Be Run Over

Another match, beginning today, will
be played between the students and
the faculty golfers, due to the failure
of some contestants to find time to
play in the last one and to the entrance
of more student contestants. From the
students making the eight highest
medal scores in the tournament will
be chosen the golf team.

The match just run off resulted in
an eight and one-half points to five and
one-half points win for the students.
Professor Fulcher, advisor to the golf
team, states that the results of the first
tournament are quite pleasing and that
prospects are somewhat brightened by
the performances of Barnes, Bowman,
Cannon, Cochran, Hamrick, and Vai-
den.

The faculty-student match will end
March 15th, and on the 20th the eight
niedal scorers will compete at the Car-
olina Country Club in Charlotte ‘for
place on the golf team. Until then
C, F. Hamrick will act as temporary
captain and Professor Fulcher*as ad-
visor.

PFOHL MAKES GOOD
' AS HEAD OF MUSIC

(Continued from page 1)

Pfohl has been given complete
charge of Davidson's musical organiza-
tions, which include the R. O. T. C,
band, the concert band, the concert
orchestra, and the glee club. Not only
does the handling of these groups re-
quire unusual musical talent, but an
ability to exercise calmness and deter-
mination and to secure the confidence
of those under him, must all be used
to their best advantage. From all re-
ports, and as was brought out in the
recent newspaper articles, “Pfohl has
surpassed the expectations of even his
best friends and has succeeded admir-
ably in his work at the college.” One
article says: “ Never has Davidson Col-
lege, in all its hundred years of his-
tory, had better music than at the
present time.” ’

It is interesting to note that, al-
though he plays many musical instru-
ments, Pfohl has never taken a music
lesson on any instrument other than
the piano or organ. Playing all of his
instruments well, he excels with the
cornet and organ, giving lessons in the
latter to eight students. Playing in
the Moravian band at the age of six,
Pfohl has continued his musical career
without stopping. Perhaps the secret
of his success lies in the statement
taken from the recent article about
him: “ ... his highest ambition is to

be a concert director. Emphatically,
he does not like jazz.”
JUNIOR SPEAKING WLL

BE HELD MARCH 23-24

(Continued irom page 1)
give a concert in Chambers Auditorium

_and on Saturday afternoon a track

meet will be held on Richardson Field
between Dayidson and the Wofford
varsity trackmen. Other features are
being planned for the week-end and
will be announced to the student body.
later.

The name “Junior Speaking” was
given to the week-end many years
back when members of the Junior
class delivered orations, which lasted
over a period of days. Parents and
friends of the students were invited to
attend this series of orations and it
was looked forward to as one of ‘the
most outstanding social events on the
campus each year. However, as time

went on and the classes grew larger,

the custom was abandoned and a dif-
ferent form of entertainment: put in its
place. é

—=

| NEWS DIGEST

By DOPEY McCALL
COSTNER CONFESSES
Isaac Costner, young Tennessee bad
man, violated the ethical code of the
underworld and turned traitor when
he gave evidence for the state against
the kidnappers of Jake Factor. Costner,
in a slow drawling voice, told his story
of the snatch and the crimes of his
partners, the Toughy gang. The crim-
inal of fiction never tells on his com-
panions, but this is not always so ih
real life, and I imaginé that the au-
thorities are mighty grateful.

BAD LUCK

The new custodians: of the air mail
skies have been flying scarcely four
days and already the elements have
turned against them. Fog and snow
in the Rocky Mountain territory and
over a large section of the Middle
West turned the airlanes into a howl-
ing terror which resulted in five deaths
and many forced landings. Pilots have
been killed in Ohio, Texas, Maryland,
and New York, which gives some idea
of the spread of the storm. However,
of all these stories of death and hard-
ship, may it also be said that the mail
went through in all except one case.

: SANDINO DIES

General Augusto Sandino, the swash-
buckling little Nicaraguan who defied
the United States, was dead last Fri-
day, killed by national guardsmen in
a raid. Authorities searching for a
motive for the assassination think that
Sandino must have said something
derogatory about the guardsmen. A
state of seige was immediately declared
by the Nicaraguan congress at the re-
quest of the president, since it was
feared that the many followers of San-
dino might try to avenge the death of
their leader.

LEOPOLD III

A million loyal subjects lined the
roads of historic Brussels as Leopold
TH,-son of the late Albert I, rode to
the parliamentary building to be
crowned King of all the Belgians. At
the same time Princess Astrid of Swe-
den became the queen. The young
monarch was thin and pale as he met
with members of, the . parliament to.
hear the address of loyalty. According
to custom, members of the cabinet
handed in their resignation, but the
government was told to continue in
its present duties,

LAST FARM LOAN

The President Friday signed the
farm loan bill for forty million dollars
and declared that it would be the last
of its kind. The government is be-
ginning its tapering off process and it
thinks that the farmer is about ready
to take care of himself.. The past
loans have worked out smoothly and
this will be the end. Monday, the

Postal. Statistics
Vary Very Little

Annual Volume of Business Is
Rather Stable

Post office statistics of Davidson
show a difference of only twenty-nine
cents in the volume of business trans-
acted between the fiscal year 1932 and
1933. Davidson’s student body has
maintained about the same average, in
regard to postal transactions, for the
past several years,

These statistics show $3,021.27 for
the last quarter of 1932, and $3,203.80
for the last quarter of 1933. Postal re-
ceipts for the first month of this year
are $1,037.20, as compared with $1,570.62
for the first month of 1933.

There is a decided decrease in postal
receipts during the summer months but
the average is restored in the fall when
the college reopens. Thus the student
body is a big factor to be reckoned
with in managing the town’s post
office.

WRESTLING MATCH OFF

Due to several cases of sickness on
the N. C. State wrestling team, the
meet which had been scheduled for
last Saturday was of necessity called
off by the State officials. The mem-
bers of the squad had contracted an
infection from the wrestling mats. Da-
vidson officials gladly complied with
‘the request from State, as there were
also some few cases of the infection
in the Wildcat camp.

President has called a conference to
decide another question, this time it is
to map out a program of foreign trade
which promises to be a job far from
easy.

PRINCELY DEFIANCE

Prince Sigvard of Sweden has de-
fied his royal elders in his determina-
tion to wed the popular German mo-
tion pictur@star, Erkia Patzek, who
is the desceftdant of a commoner.
Count Bernadotte, who was sent to
London in an attempt to dissuade the
prince of his new romance and was
told_by. the prince to return to the
royal court and tell his father that he
intended to wed the German actress
despite the efforts of the royal house
to prevent it.

COMMUNISTS

The Communists and Socialists are
waking up all over the world and the
news of the day is full of their activi-
ties and their battles, The latest thing
to happen after the war in Austria and
the Socialist-Communist fight in New
York is the stoning of the Austrian
embassy in Uruguay by a mob of Com-
munists who were protesting the “mas-
sacre” of Vienna. The Fascists group
in England, although not belligerent,
is growing rapidly and it is estimated
that this group will number five mil-

lion people by the end of the year.

"WHEN A FELLER
NEEDS A FRIEND’

blend a feller needs.

When fate hangs heavy over your head,
retain a cheerful outlook with a pipe of
genial BRIGGS. There's not a bite in a
bushel of this aged-in-wood blend . . . and
it has a rare and spicy savor that will
thrill your taste. You'll find BRIGGS the

KEPT FACTORY FRESH
by inner lining of
“ST.LOPHANE

© P. Lorillard Co,, Ine,
