THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24,

1934 °

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER

cinted Gollegint

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina a

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m.,

Monday. Letters to the Editor are wel but all
tions intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS «©... 2. 2:6 « + + « « » Kéitor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... . Business Manager

EDITORIAL :
Met oey. soaauebcwncscess Managing Editor
--Managing Editor
.-Managing Editor
--Managing Editor
Managing Editor
----Sports Editor
-Exchange Editor
.--Feature Editor
---Feature Editor
.--Associate Editor
.--Associate Editor
---Associate Editor
DicewsulaeneueeeueoeocuLe Associate Editor

MartTIN BARNETT
PauL HARLAN ...-.
Tom MARCHANT ~
JoHN WALKER --
Harvey GLAss --
Lamont Brown
Enip Bowers ---
CARLYLE Lewis -
Scotty McLrop -
3. L. GULLETTE --
E. F. McPuar
Bi OROSR ccec
Jack HELLincer

eb: Asst. Business Mgr.
VAL -Asst. Business Mor.
Tom $$ Asst. Business Mgr.
J. S. McMutte -Asst. Business Mgr.

REDE MORROWile soc baleen ees SRS Asst..Business Mgr.

It is our hope that those of you who are guilty
of these charges will change your disposition and
acquit yourselves as freshmen should in the remain-
ing seven months of school and thus overcome a bad
impression which you have made these first two
months,

STUDENTS WILL HEAR
PROMINENT MUSICIAN

Davidson College is to have the opportunity of
hearing soon Palmer Christian, one of America’s
most prominent virtuosi.

Christian is especially fortunate in being gifted
with an imagination and an artistic intuition that pre-
sent the instrument of today in a manner that takes
full advantage of its resources. His programs are
not a “constant roar’’ from beginning to end, nor
on the other hand do they confine themselves to a
class of music that may be defined as“*stirgary-senti-
mentalism”. But they are well balanced, and con-
sequently present the organ of today not only from
the point of-view of its traditional tone qualities, but

also with due regard to the orchestral possibilities.

and subtlety of effect which individualize the instru-
ment.

Mr. Christian’s programs are particularly interest-
ing, as he holds the belief that the laymen must be
intrigued by organ concerts as well as the musician.
To that end he plans programs that maintain interest
by means of varying moods, by using music that
has melodic appeal, and by an elaborate use of the
tone color found possible on the fine organs of the
day.

LIBERAL vs. CONSERVATIVE
By
Warner DuBose, Jr.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1934

All power, even the most despotic, rests ultimately on

opinion .... Hume.

PARAGRAPHICS

It is very pleasing to know that Dr. Arbuckle is
getting along well enough so that he was out riding
last Sunday afternoon. His return to the Chemis-
try building is being anxiously awaited.

The Y. M. C. A. Fall Services begin next Sun-
day and will extend through the following Wednes-
day night. Dr. J. Blanton Belk, the speaker for
these services, comes to us highly recommended and
from all reports should be of unusual appeal to
students.

POOR SPIRIT SHOWN
IN FRESHMAN CLASS

In the first issue of The Davidsonian there ap-
peared an editorial welcoming the Freshman Class
to this campus as an intergral part of the Davidson
College student body. Besides a publication of wel-
come from the upperclassmen, it also had for its
purpose to make known to the class of 1938 a few
of the traditions and policies of campus life by
which it was assumed they would gladly honor and
abide. At that time it was not expected that action
would have to be taken by Court of Control and
other responsible organizations to enforce the few
mild regulations placed upon them and to descipline
the unyisually large number: of violators.

Freshmen are not subject to any form of hazing
here and it is a fact of which we are all proud and
glad. Hardly ever is there an exception to this
policy, but it is quite disappointing to know that
there are so many exceptions on the part of the
freshmen as regards their regulations.

It is a frequent occurence to see a freshman with-
out his cap, or have one refuse to ¢arry your laundry
or refuse to run an errand for you.. One freshman,
when requested to perform an ordinary task for an
upperclassman a few days ago is quoted as saying:
“are freshmen supposed to do that?”, and although
setting out under the guise of fulfilling the request
never did do it. This incident is illustrative of an
attitude that has frequently recurred of late. How-
ever, the most appalling thing has been their in-
difference toward pep meetings which is indeed a
reflection on their school spirit. So poor has their
attendance been at these meetings that before the
last football game a special pep meeting had to be
called for the freshmen alone, and to insure their
presence the Court of Control was there to make
a check of the attendance.

In making these assertions, we do not condemn
every member of the freshman class. A large num-
ber cannot be criticized for failure to observe these
requirements, but nevertheless there is a number,
which is more than just a few, who if allowed to
continue their listless and indifferent attitude, will
bring down upon the class an undesirable reputa-
tion.

We heartily commend’ the Court of Control for
the action it has taken in such cases, and we would
like to encourage upperclassmen to report cases
which come up before them.

Many of the party leaders of the decades just past
would turn over in their graves if they. were aware
of the movements going on in the politics of the
country today. ‘The old partyists could not under-
stand the changes that are taking place in the old
party organizations of this country. The Democratic
and Republican parties are loosing their hold on
the people of the States and their place is being taken
by two factions of each of the parties. The Liberal
and the Conservative wings of these political entities
are coming to the forefront and dominating the po-
litical situation. It is no longer’to be conceived that
these old organizations will control the course of our
ship of state.

The factions were first noticed to be active, though
not publicly so, in the election of 1927. On the night
of Noyember the fourth in that year there were
many ‘of the old timers agast at the trend ofthe vot-
ing of some of the states. As the reports came in
it was seen that the “Solid South” could no longer
be counted upon to vote the straight party ticket.
In this election we find the conservative attitude
swaying the populace against*the more liberal policies
of the opposing party. But these policies could not
meet the demands made by a crisis, and it fell in a
backwash of indignation. The Liberals rode in on
the tidal wave. But such is not the case now, for
as it was then the parties held opposing views, while
now it is a case of the parties themselves being split
into two factions, the Liberals and the Conservatives.

In both parties now are the two factions, one up-
holding the policies of Roosevelt, and the other, the
conservatives, standing against these -policies being
continued as other than emergency measures.

The Conservative movement is just now coming
to life in a definite way since the beginning of this
present administration, for until the past few months
they have been reconciled to the activities of the
White House as emergency measures. But now they
think that it is time to slow up a bit on these plans
and projects for it is beginning to take on a too per-
manent aspect to suit their particular tastes. They
are asking for a little more cautious action, and not
this plunging method. It is true though that during
the immediate past action was very preferrable to
a static position, and they recognized it and were glad
to fall in line with the drastic steps to meet the dras-
tic situation, but now the outlook has changed. These
conservative. men are asking for action to suit the
times, they are afraid that the present course will
deprive us of a chance to be liberal in anything, so
they are attempting to meet the situation before it
arises. But the Liberals also have their say.

The Liberals argue that the times are changing
and that we have to anticipate the changes and be
ready for them when they come. ‘They want to con-
tinue along the lines ‘as set down by the president,
and perhaps even go farther. They seem to like the
running way of doing things and abhor the cautious
method of picking our steps. There is no doubt that
some wonderful things have been accomplished in
their reign in office and that some of their policies
have a great deal of value, but time will tell. “But
this is the very point of controversy.

The Old Guard of both the parties is going to

have some trying days trying to satisfy both the fac-

tions of their respective organizations. Burcu
if they will be able to do this for the new patties—
The Conservative and The Liberal— are due to take
their place in the new era of politics.

OUR
ontemporartes

By Entp Bowers

Washington and Lee

When the 29th annual Fancy Dress
Ball takes place this year at W. & L,,
the calendar will ‘be turned back 120
years, to the time when the eyes of all
the world were focused on the European
diplomats gathered in gay Vienna to
undo the changes wrought by the Na-
poleonic wars. The official title for the
ball will be “The First Imperial Ridotto
of 1815”.

According to the custom, the bell will
be rung from the time victory of the Gen-
erals on the football, field is announced
until seven o'clock. Each freshman tak-
ing turns at the rope. From then until
midnight the bell will be rung on the
hour, the number of strokes each hour
to equal the number of points scored by
the Generals.

Tulane University

The time-honored absent-minded pro-
fessor came to life the other day when
an eccentric member of the English De-
partment’ entered a classroom and began
calling the roll. He called several names
and there were no answers. He continued
down the list noticing that a murmur
began to rise from the students. The
professor looked around the room and
finally glanced towards the doorway
where he recognized a familiar figure.
The professor immediately took his roll
book and departed for parts unknown.
He was in the wrong building.

University of South Carolina

Around 9,800 calls are made daily from
the approximately forty campus phones.
The chief operator of the central ex-
change says that girls make as many
dates as the boys. The busiest time is
between the hours of six and seven when
these nightly engagements are made.

Something seldom heard of—an upper-
classman was passing one of the dormi-
tories and heard groans emitting from
one of the windows. Upon investigating
he saw a sight that struck him speech-
less for there bent over a chair in a
most undignified manner was a_ senior
uttering sound of woe while a lowly
freshman, with a Calm and deliberate
manner, was administering punishment
upon him with a hair brush with re-
sounding licks. It was later learned
that the Freshman was paying off a bet.

Collegiana

In the Peloponnesian Islands, the cus-
tom is to rub noses instead of shaking
hands .. . FERA work denied Fraternity
men at W&L .. . Students at Yankton
College in South Dakota have resorted to
picketing the girl’s dormitory in enforc-
ing the strike on “dating” the girls that
reside on the campus ... Freshmen at
Furman are given examinations an the
contents of their handbooks ... A
school of social service designed pri-
marily to train government relief work-
ers was established at the University of
Georgia .. . Dr. William W. Bennett of
Union College says ‘that college students
are more after grades than they are
knowledge’. . . A sophomore at Adelbert
College in Cleveland, Ohio lost his
trousers on one of the busiest corners of
the city when thirty freshmen ripped
them from him .. . Upperclassmen at
Harvard are not required to attend
classes or take the half-term examina-
tions in November and April . . . Left
hand ping-pong is being instituted at the
University of Minnesota in order to”
cure students who stammer. . . There
are now 400 bicycles at Smith College in
North Hampton, Mass. They have be-
come such a nuisance that special traffic
rules are being formulated.

Duke-Davidson Week-
End Enjoyed By
Thousands

Continued from Page 1
Evelyn Stephens, New Bern; Lila Tuck-
er, Charlotte; Leone Brooks, Atlanta,
Ga.; Martha Withers, Columbia, S. C.;
Lala Womble, Winston-Salem; and Mar-
garet Crawford, Atlanta, Ga.

Kappa Sigma: Nina Pinton; Greens-
boro; Nita Smith, Gastonia; Lucy
Spinks, Wilmington; Ann West, Winter-
haven, Fla.; and Edith Wyatt, Raleigh.

Pi Kappa Phi: Mary Clare Stokes,
Wilson; Jean Stough, Cornelius; Caro-
lyn’ Hammond, Charlotte; Virginia
Carey, Charlotte; Frances Ray, Char-
lotte; Libby Rhett, Davidson; and Dosty
Blackmon, Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta: Ann Kimmons,
Hoptown, Ky.; Adelaide Ranter, Rich-
mond, Va.; Courtney West, Newport
News, Va.; Dot Clendenin, Greensboro;
Patsy Jones, Greensboro; Marjorie Pye,
Greensboro; Katherine Ellison, Greens-
boro; Corteland Preston, Washington,
D. C.; Frances Tomlin, Jackson, Tenn. ;
Blevnis Vogler, Winston-Salem; Mary
Lib Walston, Winston-Salem; Miriam
Steele, Charlotte; Agnes Crowder, High
Point; Helen Lebby, Charleston, S. C.;
Caroline Neave, Salisbury; Mary Flen-
niker, Knoxville, Tenn,; Jean Mont- |
gomery, Charlotte; Margaret O’Harlon,
Winston-Salem; “Pete” Schlosser,

C OMPASSING
the,

CAMPUS

By Scorty McLrop

It was a great game Saturday, and the
campus is proud of its battling Wild-
cats; all the ’Cats played smart fighting
football every minute of the game. This
Saturday will see every football player
at Davidson in action as the varsity
journeys to Charleston, the B-squad en-
gages Mars Hill there, and the fresh-
men play Wofford frosh in Spartanburg.
Although every ,gridder at Davidson will
be playing, Richardson field will be va-
cant, as all the games are away from the
Wildcat’s lair. — ,

IN THE MANNER OF OTHER
AND BETTER COLUMNISTS: We
have heard that Dr. Harding has a mod-
ern alliterative version of the old saying,
“Wine, women, and song”; he calls it
“gin, gender, and jazz” according to our
informer Ray Richardson, John
Allen, Gus Maynard, Ginnie Thompson,
and Don Bailey at the circus; there were
lots of others too taking in the sights
and side shows . . . Harpo Harlan was
really in a bind Friday whén he re-
ceived a wire from “Frances” accepting
his invitation to the Duke dances; Mims
Percy Rogers did a litle dirty work and
asked her to come up on Harpo’s bid,
without consulting Harpo Skip
Brown crashed Variety after his splen-
did announcing of a football game over
WBT; our pres. is described as a “new
find” in radio; just another Husing ...
The denization of the freshman approxi-
mates its culmination . . . Be sure to
read the front-page editorial this week . .
. The B-squad, those intrepid gridiron
warriors who combat gloriously without
reward or recognition other than the
personal satisfaction which they must de-
rive through the execution of their own
labors .. . This Saturday at Charleston
will be the last Wildcat game away from
. The Phi
Gam harem this week-end . . . The 1903

Richardson field this season . .

Quips and Cranks is a pip...

PERSONAL NOMINATIONS FOR
THE HALL OF SHAME: Bruno
Hauptmann, The Stoll kidnappers, Mae
West as Belle of the Nineties. “The sea
Mark Sullivan. Students who
football Upton
Sinclair, Bilbo, and Huey Long all Demo-

monster,
don't cheer at games,

crats. Politics in general.

AND FOR THE HALL OF FAME:
Fay Wray, the NRA, Phineas Spoon, the
Duke dances, the varsity football back-
field. This week's stirring editorial on
student body “rights”.

Greensboro; Mary Withers, Greensboro;

Wilheima Monroe, Geddiesburg; and

Mary Roman, St. Louis, Mo.

Phi Delta Theta: Kitty Rose, Jackson-
ville,
Mi
Evelyn Bagby, Raleigh; Georgie Under-

Fla.; Jeanne Earley, Indianolo,

s.; Betty Carter, Montgomery, Ala.;

wood, Charlotte; Mary Horn, Charlotte;
and Anne Preston, Columbia, S. C.

Sigma Phi Epsilom: Francis Weathers-
hee, Greensboro; Caroline Shaw, Bishop-
ville, S. C.; Margaret Cline, Salisbury ;
Jean Orr, Charlotte; Peggy ‘Townsend,
Charlotte; Miriam Stevenson, Salibury ;
Sara Wise, Greenville, S. C.; Catherine
Currie, Bishopville, S. C.; Teeny Cook,
Salisbury; Sara Hines, Oxford; Adele
Powell, Oxford; Nancy, Redfern, Ashe-
ville; Rinda Gay, Welch, W. Va.; Vir-
ginia Casali, Welch, W. Va.; and Goudy-
loch Erwin, Davidson.

EDITOR’S NOTE: Due to un-
idable cir rt the col
“Selected Papers of Phineas Spoon’’,
does not appear in this space this
week. It will appear on this page
next week and every week following.
The subject matter of the next one
will be related to the one last pub-

lished.

An Open Letter To The

Censors

Continued from Page 1

tem is exclusively a Student Body con-
tribution. The voice that rises in censure
to violators of our code, the voice that
pronounces final™judgment is the cor-
porate voice of an undergraduate major-
ity. To accept its expression of opinion
in matters pertaining to discipline, and
still to throttle the same voice as a legiti-
mate expression in the matter of other
issues is to “The Student Policies
Union” eminently unjust. This incon-
sistency is our peculiar grievance.

Education does not consist, for ex-
ample, in mastering languages. It is
properly found in that moral training
which extends beyond the precincts of
the classroom to the campus and to life.
It teaches that a more ignoble thing can
be done to fail in recitation.

With unanimity we will agree that the
Intellectual department of Davidson Col-
lege life is directed by men who are de-
voted to this high purpose of education.
Young and eager minds are not con-
strained in classrooms. The daily work
of our professors involves the firing of
enthusiasm, the whetting of intellectual
appetites. The gates of universal knowl-
edge are thrown open. The orily ex-

hortation is to enter. No imposition of
authority restricts the field of intellectual
enquiry.

But consider the anomaly in the social
field! Step out of the classroom and you
leave the climate of freedom. A line of
demarcation is traversed and one re-
verts to a static atmosphere charged
with the command to conformity.

It is the difference between the limit-
less vistas seen from the mountain tops,
and the trammelled valleys that lie be-
tween where signs direct the—path to
travel and fences front forbidden acres.
More specifically, it is the differences
between the liberty to voice any opinion
in an economics class, and the apriori
restrictions imposed from above upon
the integrity of conscience in campus
life. :

When you consider that this Student
Body cannot publicize its own dances by
posters on the campus, nor by unre-
strained mention in the college paper
without running afoul of the intentions
of the authorities you must confess that
our grievances are not imaginary.

It makes little matter what fortune
awaits the hackneyed “dancing issue”.
What we insist upon is a free student
press. This is our immediate objective.
In the case of outside control on the edi-
torial policy of “the Davidsonian” the
free voice of the Student Body is stopped
in the throat.

In recapitulation, this our creed. We
believe that within the very precinct of
this collegiate atmosphere we are en-
titled to a*° wholesome, balanced social
life.

Further, we insist that the institution
of dancing is an integral /egitimate part
of this generation's culture.

But, more particularly—and in this be-
lief we are united—we have an inalien-
able right to determine for ourselves in
the pages of this paper whether or not
we shall subscribe to the accredited con-
ventions of a contemporary culture al-
most universally sanctioned by parents
and other responsible thinkers.

That same voice which sounds out so
strong in support of the Honour System
has a right to free discussion in these
pages. =

This article is written with the hope
and expectation that there are many
readers of this paper whose sentiments
these are.

Signed: Student Policies Union.
NOTE: The names of the co-signers to this

article are at “The Davidsonian” office, and
are available for inquiry.

STATIONERY

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

CALLING CARDS

Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY
“PRINTING CO.

Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, ana of
the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL.

PROGRAMS

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

|

|

