THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1934

BRAY MIKES
Bas

By Authors Of Latest
Volumes

THIRTEEN BOOKS LISTED

Biography, Plays, Fiction, The-
ology Are Touched

The library has recently purchased a
number of new books. Among those that
have been put upon the shelves and that
are now available are:

Procession of the Gods—Gaius Glenn
Atkins. 1

A story of all religions for all people;
an historical account of their rise, their
kinship with the soil, their aspirations,
their gods, and their failures; a survey
of faiths, their relation.to each other and
to Christianity.
~Prince Eugene—Paul Frischauer.

A biography of Prince Eugene, the
great military genius of the eighteenth
centrry; an interesting account of the
Prince’s hatred of Louis XIV, and of
his spectacular triumph over adversity,
and his rise to fame.

The Technical Man Sells His Serv-
ices—Edward Hurst.

Practical, straight talk on how the
technical man can apply his scientific
training to the problem of job-getting.

The Best Plays of 1933-1934—Burns
Mantle.

Includes the ten most representative
plays of the year, lists of casts for each
performance, number of performances
each play has achieved, the statistical
summary of the season, and minute bi-
ographies of the principal actors and
actresses.

The Great Design—Frances Mason.

Fourteen eminent scientists show that
the discoveries of science strengthen, not
weaken, belief, in an infinite Creator.
Ttaly’s Part in Winning the World
War—Col. G. L. McEntee.

Good American Speech—Margaret
Prendergast McLean.

A scholarly work on English pronun-
ciation, based on the science of phonetics,
for the use of teachers and students of
spoken English, Elocution, Public-Speak-
ing, and Dramatic Art.

The Story of Sforzas—L. Collison-
Morley.

A dramatic history of the great fam-
ily, who were Dukes of Milan, and who
intermarried with the Medici and the
Borgias.

The Puritan Mind—Herbert “Wallace
Schneider.

The story of how the New England
Puritans laid the foundations of the
“genteel tradition’ and why Puritan
idealism degenerated into Yankee self-
righteousness.

Prefaces—Bernard Shaw.

Religion Today—Arthur L. Swift.

Fourteen distinguished men represent-
ing the Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant
churches give a candid appraisal of the
religion of today, what it is and what it
does.

Columbus, Don Quixote of the Seas—
Jacob Wassermann, z

A biography of the real Columbus, the
dreamer, the man who changed the his-
tory of the world; an interesting incite
into the real man,

The American Year Book for 1933.

Morley gave a smothered yelp. of
delight at a luncheon at the Univer-
sity .of Minnesota (Minneapolis)
the other day when a professor de-
scribed the difference between a uni-
versity and an insane asylum.

‘“You have to show improvement
to get out of the asylum,” said the
professor.

; An Offer

The Davidsonian
Offers
A Year’s Subscrip-
tion to Students

for

$1.50--

Send It To
Your Girl or Friend

‘Run it...”

AT THE LOCAL THEATRE

Wednesday, Dec. 12

WHITE PARADE
This is the picture of the life in a
nurses training school. Loretta Young
and John Boles play the leads. There are
many good scenes showing the real life
that nurses lead and how they handle
the situations that arise unexpectedly.

Thursday, Dec. 13
THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS
This picture gives us an all star cast,
featuring Francis Lederer one of the
latest stars. Joan Bennett plays opposite
him. Charlie Ruggles ahd Mary Boland
add the comedy to this picture. The
picture has received much favorable criti-
cism and should afford entertainment for
all.
Friday, Dec. 14
A WICKED WOMAN
This is the picturization of Mady
Christians work, “A Wicked Woman”
and brings again that unusual young M-
G-M star Jean Parker. She gives another

fine performance, and is supported by
Charles Bickford.

Saturday Dec. 15
BABBITT

Everyone is acquainted with this work
of Sinclair Lewis. It brings us again
Aline MacMahon and Guy Kibbee who
have given very good performance to-
gether in the past. The cast includes
Aline MacMahon, Guy Kibbee, and
Clarice Dodd.

Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 17 and 18
FLIRTATION WALK

This is a picture of the life at West
Point and the other places that the cadets
of this institution receive their training.
It was made with the aid of the academy
and shows much of the first hand cadet
life. Dick Powell is the impudent cadet
who falls in love with the head officers
daughter, Ruby Keeler. There some very
good new song hits in this picture and
other novelties that should not be missed.

MILITARY GROUP
HOLD INITIATION

Scabbard And Blade Initiates Six
Seniors In Meeting Wednes-
day Night

The Davidson chapter of Scabbard and
Blade initiated six new men in its formal
cerentony on Wednesday night, Decem-
ber 4th.

The men, chosen for their excellence
in military activities and general leader-
ship on the campus, were all from the
sénior class. J. M. Douglas, G. L. Green,
C. C. Harris, B. L. Rose, R. H. Smith,
and Hugh Yelverton.

The new men received their pledge
ribbons in a special ceremony held in
their honor at the R. O. T. C. parade on
Monday.

The informal initiation on Tuesday
featured the boys in blue denim march-
ing with a four-brick pack and_ staff
throughout the day. Reveilie was blown
at seven A.M. by Bugler, Ben Rose,
much to the consternation of the rest of
the student body, and at chapel the initi-
ates staged a forced march around the
hall. Guard duty, including the cleaning
of the Scabbard and Blade rooms, was in
order immediately after the Georgia-
Watts tilt.

The initiation was ended by the formal
ceremony at 7:15 Wednesday night.

Dr. Price H. Gwynn To
Speak Sunday Morning

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, professor of
sociology and educational psychology at
Davidson, will deliver the morning mes-
age at the Davidson Presbyterian Church
on Sunday, December 16th. Dr. Gwynn
will preach on Faith, taking his text from
Hebrew 11:1.

The Davidson Church gives up a third
sunday each month to a visiting minister
selected by the college. Dr. Talliaferro
Thompson was the visiting preacher for
October and Rev. Jim Appleby for No-
vember.

Although there were no deputations
made by the Y. M. C. A, last week, some
will be made in the near future, which
as yet have not been definitely planned.

The Y is still carrying on the Fresh-
man receptions, as it has done in the
past, for the benefit of the Freshmen
themselves, to get them interested in Y
work, to let them know each other bet-
ter, and to let them be known better by
the members of the Y. Every week in-
vitations are sent out to about fifteen
members of the Freshman class for these
receptions. It is the regret of the Y sec-
retary, A. B. McClure, that the men have
not been responding to these invitations,
either by showing their acceptance by
coming, 6r showing their refusal by some
note of regret. The secretary wishes
that every man who cannot come to a re-
ception will please show his refusal by
some means or other, as it is very difh-
cult to prepare a feed for a group when
it is not known how many will be there.

The State Y. M. C. A. Cabinet coh-
vened in Raleigh last weekend. “Don
Brandon was sent from Davidson as a
representative to assist in making plans
and in the discussions. Although the
Davidson Y is not in close association
with the Cabinet, it tries to keep in touch
with it as much as is possible.

The ping pong tournament had pro-
gressed to the final matches at the time
that “The Davidsonian” went to press.
The final matches were played Tuesday
afternoon between Bill Bell and Bob
Coit.

The Y. M. C. A. vespers will take the
place of the evening church services. At
this Christmas vespers the music depart-
will combine to offer a service that at-
tracts many to the college cach year.
This program will be broadcast over
Station WBT of Charlotte through its

remote control facilities.

Examination Schedule—Session 1934-35—First Semester

COLLEGE PAPER
HAS NEW RIVAL

Town Journalists Renew News-
paper Publication Begun
Six Years Ago

WUXTRY! If you want the news
read “The Davidson Weekly”, The Mir-
ror of the World and greatest riyal of
“The  Davidsonian”, another — weekly
journal of Davidson township.

Send your subscription to either Bob
Wood, Editor, or Frank Caldwell, busi-
ness manager. ‘The price is three cents
a copy and if you subscribe for eight
weeks you may get it a cent cheaper.
Such is the economy of Wood, Caldwell
and Co, :

Bob Wood is the son of Professor
and Mrs. W. W. Wood. His father
teaches applied mathematics at Davidson
College. Frank Caldwell is the son of
J. R. Caldwell, manager of the hardware
division of the .Goodrum store.

The paper custom, says Editor Wood,
was started by Carlisle Lewis (Davidson,
36) about six years ago. The enterprise
evidently proving lucrative, Wood took
it up about a year later, assisted by a
staff of embryonic journalists: Caldwell,
Ed Shewmake, Id. Jackson, Bill and
Lewis Wood and Jimmy Fulcher.

Too many employees and the NRA al-
most put the business on the rocks so
Caldwell, Jackson, Shewmake, and Wood,

‘Tall sons of Davidson professors, bought

out the others and the
on that basis.

paper was run
difficulties were
still encountered and we find in the num
ber of March 26, 1934 a headline reading
“Davidson Weekly to Discontinue Soon”
and later on a detinite announcement :
“This is the Last Issue of The Davidson
Weekly.”

A big business deal, involving further

Business

concentration of business into the hands
of a few, revived the enterprise and put
the paper into the hands of Caldwell
and Wood who now carry on. At one
time, however, the paper was so_profit-
able that a model T
by the partners.

Ford was bought

of the files show that

the newspaper contains many of the es-

Examination

A. M. examinations begin at 9:00. P. M. examinations begin at 2:00. sentials of good journalism. ‘The editors
iv, ‘ exhibit their civic concern in an editorial
a ob Soph ay J and'S : on the possible replacement of Dr.
Thur. A.M. Bible 1 Bible 2 Bible 3, 6. Astronomy Pious naster Of te: local Davalect)
7 P.M Basic L. Lau — ae Se - — Methodist church. It pointed out the
vaiad ain rae «atin Ra Business 3, Geology value of the minister to the town and
ee ? lamented the possibility of his leaving.
Fri M ¢ 5g It backs up the High School 125 pound
rh vise’ Econ. 1 Econ, 1. Phychology 3. : football team and one announcement
18 P. M. Biology 1 Biol. 1 Biology 2, 3, 4. ee reads: “All High School Football players
see Rash oe report for practice this afternoon,
Sat. A.M. Chem. 1 Chem. 1 Chem. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, & Economics 3. COGnie tee the: team disband),
Education 1. The art staff obliges with pictures of
19 P.M. Greek 1 Greek 2 Greek 3, 4, 5, 6, Scientific Ghudle ~|distinguished personages besides _ the
Sociology. juveniles in the news. They includes:
= ee a Ss ee Ae pe ee 4 - Doctor Shewmake, Set. “Curby”, Miss
Mon. A.M. James, teacher; Mr. Jackson, President
sos ae GaNebeaneees : Semanoadoal ss ——] Roosevelt, Rev. Myers and Bill Quick,
21 P.M. English 1 Engl. 2 English 4, 5, 7, 10. coach of basketball.
Tues A.M} Physics 1 Phys. 2 Physics 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Economics 2. The articles ars UA IntErCS In alY
Ciba Bi, ema deer he races oe —_|and the humor is astounding. “Kurious
22 P.M. Music Music Music. Business 1, Geography 2, Ken", a weekly comic by Ed. Shewmake,
Psychology 2. comes out one week with: “This morning
I felt so goed T thought I could move
Wed. A.M. Span, A Span. 1 Spanish 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. a mountain and when | got 6n the high-
23 P. M. Basic Math. 2 Math. 3, 4. Political Science 3, 4. way I really djd pull up a hill.” Another
* Math. sparkle of Kurious Ken is a picture of
Math. 1 Ken jumping over a horse nonchalantly
Thur. A.M. Geog. 1 Geog. 1, Philosophy 1, Economics 4, ate Rohe eae agens: aften
Polit. Science 2, Psychology 4. : : Bee CSN ee seu cts
aseees List Eee tive. Proof:—NORTONS BARBER
24 P.M. French A French 1 French 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. Phychology 1, SHOP. WE APPRECIATE YOUR
Education 4, BUSINESS DURING SOCIAL FUNC-
Soe TIONS. When you want to look your
Fri. A.M. German A German 1 German 2, 3, 4. Education 3, best, come to NORTONS ave'll do the
Political Science 1. ee ‘ rest... Shave or a haircut—two bits.
25 P.M. . Hist. 1A, B Hst. 1A, B History 3, 5, 6. Italian, Fine Arts. Showing absolutely no favoritism
___ =i whatsoever they advertise: JOHNSONS
Sat. A.M. Hist. 1C, D Hst. 1, D History 2, 4, 8, Business 2, BARBER GH OL NINE OU OF
Applied Math. 1, 2. TEN COME HERE. When you go to
~|see your gal, Johnson’s shop will be your
26 P.M. Bore 1 ROTC 2 ROTC 3, 4 pal... Come up and see us some time.
Educ. They conclude their arguments with
“p. ey /. Fantionne ey
Recitations will close Wednesday, January 16 at 12:30 P. M. aaa OFF eaversere.'s-tliey re
Clayton Cochran, son of Captain and| Heistand Scott, of Fort Benning,|% J

Mrs. Cochran, will return from Georgia
Military Academy, where he is a student,
to spend the holidays with his parents.
Miller Cochran will also be in Davidson
for the holidays.

Georgia, visited Miss Helen DeVane this
past week. Miss Scott is the daughter of
Lt.-Col. Scott who was formerly of the
R. O. T. C. Department of Davidson
College.

STATIONERY CALLING

PRINTI

1143 E, FOURTH ST.

Fine Printing

Q@UEEN CITY

Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, ana of
the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL

CARDS PROGRAMS

NG CO.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

am YOU'LL BE
HAPPY IN
HANES!

Shorts ;.. Shirts
Union Suits

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
WINSTON-SALEM

IVEY-GRAM

Ivey's is ready ‘to satisfy your every
Christmas whim. Last week [vey’s com-
pleted their Holiday supply of the latest
fashions and clever knick-nacks. I
would suggest that the next time you are
in the “Queen City” that you stop in at
vey's and purchase your more import-
ant Christmas gifts. Below in rather
an impressionistic form you will find
listed some of the things that struck me
as being ideal gifts.

FOR DAD

That lounge suit over there on the
counter . . . the flannel one with regi-
mental stripes in silk grosgrain serving

as trim on the trousers, cuffs, and pockets.
I know Dad would like that; and look at
those beautiful sheer cambric handker-
chiefs, especially that one with the em-
broidered initial and that oversized polka
dotted one. ‘Those striped ties, please
... L especially like that blue and white
all-over pattern Macclesfield the
woven wools are awfully pretty too...
and those rough knitted ties. Those deep
pile house slippers look nice and warm.
FOR MOTHER

After all Christmas is another form of
Mother's Day and Mother is probably the
only one to whom it is fitting to present
a picture of your homely mug at Christ-
A nice way to surround the
bright and shining countenance is a
frame of bright blue glazed leather,
hand-tooled and from Morocco. And if
the pocket-book bursting over with
wealth why not-purchase the entire dress-
ing table set to match the picture frame
... perfumes, silk hosiery, a sewing kit,
bath sets, matched cards, linen, and nu-
merous other things that escape my mind
at present.
FOR YOURSELF

Yes, you may as well think of what
you want for Christmas and then  tact-
fully suggest it at home°and thus get
what you want instead of havilig to ex-
Light yellow balloon

mas time.

Is

change afterwards.

silk scarves for evening wear... (Get
one for Sophomore weekend)

hound’s tooth wool mufiler . .. one of
printed cashmere . . . and any number
of plaid ones. Never do get enough
shirts and handkerchiefs . Oxford
shirt with button-down collar... round

collar attached shirt . . . short pointed
collar attached shirt

. Striped ties ..
. might swap with
Dad . . . wool hose
in stripes and
plaids pull-
overs of pure cash-
mere regi>
mental braces with
sock supporters to
silk pajamas and lounge robes

match...

. anything else not mentioned here can
no doubt be found at /vey’s.

MERRY CHRISTMAS

Ivey’s takes this opportunity to
wish each Davidson student and
every reader of the DAVIDSON-
IAN a Christmas packed full of
happiness and good cheer and the
best of luck for 1935.

Rev. Plummer Smith, on furlough
from Africa, addressed the students of
the Davidson High School Saturday De-
cember 8. Rev. Smith, a graduate of
Davidson College, exhibited slides and
a collection of native weapons.

MERRY XMAS

Dyke Out in Holiday
Style with
New Wool Plaid and
‘Rabbit Fur Ties

Price 65c

RAY HARRISON
gif>

