THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31,

1934

The Pavidgsonian

Founded by the Class of 1916

MEMBER

Associated Golleginte Press |

31934 Gollesiate 935
wussow ‘wiScOnsen

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd,_1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are wel but all
tions intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS .... ..'- - « ».. « Editor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ... . Business Manager

EDITORIAL
MARTIN BARNETT. cocucceccccscssdascusus Managing Editor
Paut HARLAN --- Managing Editor
TOMPMARGHANT cu-csccl-e.ccusceludaee Managing Editor
JoHN WALKER -- -Managing Editor
Harvey GLass -- -Managing Editor
Lamont Brown

HNID BOWERS seu cosqes _Exchange Editor
CARLYLE Lewis - --Feature Editor
Scotty McLeop - --Feature Editor

L. GuLLETTE -- Associate Editor
E. F. McPuat --Associate Editor
B. L. Rose --Associate Editor
Jack Associate Editor

4, . Business Mgr.
VAL $ . Business Mgr.
OM OR O88 meer scab acre csocee ss? A sst. Business Mg gr.
J. S. MceMutren . Business Mor.
Risk cNIORROW 2 cascacckuuccosvesceccoes . Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1934

“find” time for anything. If you
want time you must make it—Cuaries Buxton.

You will never

EXPRESSION OF OPINION

IN THE OPEN FORUM I

N the first is-
sue of The Datidsonian there appeared an article
announcing the inauguration of an “open forum”
column in the paper of which the students and read-
ers would Nave full benefit for the expression of their
Up until
this issue we have received very: little response to

opinions on various matters and policies.

this announcement.

We feel definitely sure that there are many stu-
dents who would like to take advantage of this privi-
lege to express their pent up opinions and views on
campus life ‘and activities here at Davidson College.
A large majority of the students are not in a posi-
tion to make known their sentiments as are some of
the more fortunate ones. Nevertheless, their opinions
are just as valid and important as anybody’s, and
for this reason it is believed that the “open forum”
is an adequate medium through which to remedy this
situation. If used advantageously, this organ for the
dissemination of opinions could be made most effec-
tive and constructive in nature and would certainly
exercise some influence on campus organizations and
activities,

May it be pointed out, however, that this privilege
does not have for its purpose to encourage adverse
criticism, but it does have for its purpose to encour-
age criticism of a constructive nature. There are
also limitations placed upon freedom of expression
in the columns of this paper, and for this reason only
those articles which are deemed advisable will be
printed.

On this page is the initial appearance of the “open
forum’. The Davidsonian strongly urges alumni
readers as well as students to make use of the “open
forum” and the editorial columns contained in it.
Articles of this kind should be addressed to the edi-
tor and should be in his hands before four o'clock
on Monday afternoons,

THE LIBRARY ON
SATURDAY NIGHTS
HERE is a regula-
tion, or rather a custom, concerning the Davidson
College Library which although not a very vital one,
is one which has proved quite inconvenient at times
~ and has never been understood by a number of stu-
What is being re-
ferred to here is the fact that the library does not
stay open on Saturday nights.
We see no valid reasons why it shouldn’t remain
open during this time. Students have appeared be-
"fore the library committee in the past in this behalf,
but have never accomplished any favorable results.
There are arguments in favor of éach side, but we
believe that the reasoning for outweighs the reason-

_.dentsinterested in this matter.

ing against. As far as we know, the main objection
is that not enough students would use the library on
Saturday nights to justify the expense of keeping it

open at this time.

It seems that the convenience and benefit that
could be derived from this privilege would more than
offset any eXtra expense incurred during these few
extra hours. It is true that the library wouldn’t be
used as much on this night as on others, but it
would certainly prove helpful and convenient on
many occasions which we believe would warrant its
being kept open. There may be other reasons that
we are not aware of and don't understand,.)but if
there are none other than the abovementioned we

would like to see this privilege granted.

Saturday night, peculiar to any other night in this
particular instance, would be, it seems, a most appro-
priate time during which to keep the library open.
On this night, students knowing there were no classes
on the following day to prepare for could spend their
time as they desired it in the library instead of pre-
paring routine and assigned work as they usually
have to do on other nights. In this way, students
could become better acquainted with the library and

the time spent in it made more interesting.

Surely, if permitted, this privilege could be con-
sidered as a step to a certain extent conducive to-
ward making the week-ends on the campus more at-

tractive to the students.

MORE SCHOOLS ABOLISH
THE HONOR SYSTEM

There seems
to be a gradual increasing trend toward the abolish-
ment of “Honor Systems”
over the country, especially so in the larger schools.
This trend has found root in the fact that after years
of trial the system has failed miserably in its main
purpose, that of trusting the honesty of the stu-
dents in the class room.

in colleges and schools all

Two years ago’the Honor System was abolished
at Georgia Tech, and just a few weeks ago the School
of Arts and Sciences at Tulane University did away
with the system altogether. Only last week one of
our most well known contemporaries, North Caro-
lina State College in Raleigh, abolished the system.
At present in many other schools throughout the
country the system is undergoing a period of crisis.

In almost every case where the change has been
brought about it was pointed out that the system had
never operated successfully. The violation of the
system by an increasing minority made it quite un-
fair to those that abided by it. Although it did give
the cheater ample opportunity to engage in his dis-
honest practices, it was equally as unfair to him as it
was to the man who did not violate the honor code.
Wherever the system has failed to function success-
fully it was said that the cheater, was given the op-
portunity to continue a habit forming practice which
would lead to dire consequences in the future. He
would become too dependent on others.

An editorial in The Technician of State College
had the following to say about the passing of the
school’s Honor System: “In its fourteen years of
operation at State College, the system has never
worked successfully. ‘There were always some stu-
dents who took advantage of the trust placed in them,
and it was these students who kept one of the best
plans for building student character from succeeding.
Honesty is one of the cardinal virtues, but it is one
of the most abused.

“It was not the majority of students who deliber-
ately cheated to make passing grades, but only a few
who made it appear to outsiders that the State stu-
dent body was a bunch of hoodlums without a grain
of self respect. It was bad publicity for the college
and a reflection on the students.” This same edi-
torial stated that the action taken was not regretted.

The Honor System at State was first condemned
by a vote of the Student Council which was endorsed
by a unanimous vote of the faculty thus resulting
in its withdrawal. In its place has ‘been substituted
a system of proctors who will be on duty during
quizzes and examinations; making a report to the
Council after each quizz. Students will be allowed
to leave the class room only when necessary and pro-
fessors will remain throughout the period. Students
must also take alternate seats during quizzes.

It may be conceded that the new system will be
more effective and more satisfactory, but it is in-
deed disappointing to know that in so many of our
leading colleges the Honor System has or is failing
because a surprisingly large number.of the students
dishonestly, take advantage of the trust placed in
them.

Davidson College has an Honor, System the suc-
cess of which makes it unique. It is one which has
‘merited investigation and praise from outsiders and
one of which every Davidson man is proud. May
the: Honor System here have the continued codpera-
tion of the students and thus become an exception
and shining example to other institutions.

J] OPEN FORUM

Editor's Note: There are many con-
tributors to this paper and for that rea-
son The Davidsonian does not necessari-
ly endorse any opinions embodied in this
or any of its editorial columns.

Editor The Davidsonian:

Radio Experiment, A Success?

It is hoped that the above title will
recall to your mind an article which ap-
peared in the last edition of last year’s
Davidsonian, An article which, ,if you
will recall, strongly denounced the then
existing condition of the radio experi-
ment. For ‘that denunciatory article I
make no apology. If the condition
which existed then were prevalent now
I should again direct a stream of criti-
cism against the same.

But; that condition has vanished!
And I propose a vote of thanks to the
Executive Committee which made this
experiment possible; to you men who
actually control the radios; and last, but

by no means least of all, to “Skipper”
Brown and his crew—a combination
which functions very smoothly and
efficiently,

From this experiment, or experience,
I wish to offer this observation: David-
son men can and will avail themselves
of a granted privilege without abusing
the same. Last May I should not have
admitted this. Now—I dare not close
my eyes to a fact’ which has been ascer-
tained. The irrevocable fact that David-
son men can rightfully and advantageous-
ly use a privilege stands out supremely.
Deny this if you please. But in so do-
ing you are unintelligently disregarding
a fact! .

This person believes that it is far be-
yond a Davidson man’s most airy flight
of imagination to attempt the discrediting
of the above fact. Therefore, this ar-
ticle is not directed primarily to you
Davidsonians. The specific direction of
this is to any would-be opposers of the
sentiments voiced by the Student Poli-
cies’ Union in their article last weck.
Opposers whose contention is that
Davidson men cannot. make intelligent
use of privileges.

(Signed) J. A.

OUR
ontempora r1es

By Enip Bowers

Duke University

A one semester course, with the daily
newspaper as a text and a competent
instructor as a guide was suggested in
an editorial in the last Duke Chronicle.
Collegiana

Dartmouth College students may be
given full control of their dormitories.
The Dartmouth Alumni Magazine was
recently chosen as “the best publication
in its field” At Lehigh the frosh
must wear“black socks and ties... A
fine of ten dollars or a jail sentence of
six days can be imposed upon a co-ed
at the University of Minnesota if caught
wearing a fraternity pin... A survey
at Harvard revealed that the average
student carried 22 cents in his pockets

. In Missouri college football games
are not subject to taxation... There

are six Roosevelts at Harvard this
year . . . Only ten per cent of the uni-
versity students in Germany may be

women due to a recent Nazi ruling...
Chess is obligatory at all Soviet colleges

. Yale turns its back on the “New
Deal” according to a poll taken among
its students .. . SAE’S boast the largest
number of members of any social frater-
nity in the United States... Members of
the Princeton and Harvard football teams
will bury the hatchet after their football
game and will dine together . . . Rear
Admiral Byrd is a graduate of the U.
S. Naval Academy in the class of 1912. . .
William Shakespeare, “poetic back” of
Notre Dame, flunked on English at that
University last year .. . Dr. Ralph R.
Winn, City College of New York, in-
structor of philosophy, claims that the
students who sleep during lectures re-
tain the greatest amount of information
being disseminated . . . The Iowa State
Teachers college recently conducted a
questionnaire to find out how much a date
was worth. One student voted ten
cents .. . In the Dean's office at Creigh-
ton University is a sign that reads:
“Get your grades and pass out quietly.”

C'OMPASSING
the,

‘CAMPUS

By Scortry McLrop

4

This Saturday will give the Catawba
Indians the chance they have long said
that they wanted to beat Davidson. Our
boys should go on the field and swamp
them so completely that they would never
utter another word about Davidson “be-
ing afraid to play Catawba”. Since
1910, when the State Champion Wild-
cats beat them, 29-0, the two schools
have never enjoyed athletic relations
despite the fact that they are located only
twenty-three miles apart. Catawba is
a head-liner in the “Little Six” and will
be one of the few teams in that confer-
ence to play against a “Big Five”
this season.

FROM GRID ARCHIVES

The first real football games at David-
son were played in 1897 when the locals
lost to North Carolina and were vic-
torious over South Carolina, both games
ending in close scores. An average of
500 for the first gridiron season at
Davidson. For five successive seasons
the Davidsonians beat the South Carolina
Gamecocks, and in 1902 they were drop-
ped from the Wildcat schedule tempo-
rarily; then, in 1903 the fighting roosters
struck back and beat our team, 28-12.
Davidson beat Georgia Tech in 1902 hy
the score of 7-5, and two years later
humbled Auburn in, Birmingham, 6-0. It
was in 1905 that the first Davidson tutor
was employed to teach the local gridders
how to play the game; his name was
Williams. In 1909 the local boys lost to
the Navy, 6-45, but in the following
year registered a vittory over the Uni-
versity of South Carolina, 53-0; beat
Wake Forest 32-0; downed Lenoir
57-0; and humbled the College of Char-
leston, 27-6. In the next season, a strong
Tennessee team came to win, 0-9, 1914
was a successful year for the team when
they lost only one game, beating Wof-
ford 81-6 and The Citadel, 14-0. A
58-13 victory over Furman was chalked
up for the ‘Cats in 1915 and in the same
year Georgia Tech beat our lads, 7-21.

In 1917 high scores seemed to be the
style: Davidson beat Wake Forest,
73-7; Wofford, 62-0; Furman 28-7;
Clemson, 21-9; Auburn, 21-7; V. M. 1.
23-7. While winning from these teams
the ’Cats lost to Georgia. Tech and the
Navy. Duke University went down be-
fore the snarling Wildcats in 1925 by a
score of 26-0, and in 1926 the David-
sonians didn’t lose a game in the Big
Five. The 1926 State Champions beat
Duke, 20-0; Carolina, 10-0; N. C. State,
3-0; and tied the Deacons, 3-3.

All of which doesn’t prove a_ thing
but if you like football you might be
interested in these statistics.

GLAMOROUS CHARLESTON

Incomparable city of antiquity and the
spirit of early America—Charleston
by the sea. About thirty Davidsonians
were there last week-end for the Cadet
contest. The “Mess Hall B” after the
game Saturday was really a fine one.
Seen there were Tom Marchant, sar-
torially immaculate; Bud Okey, return-
ing to old haunts; Jim Knox, very much
at ease; Baxter Moore, trying to get a
late date with Miss Mays; Grier Martin,
stately journalist; and others somewhat
befuddled. Betsy Armfield, Ed’s sister,
was on hand for the hop. And in town
were Hack- Sanders, Ab. Price, P. D.
Guerrant, Duke “Glasgow, Shy. ‘Taylor
and numberless, other. Phi Delts from
other schools. Miss Brandes was the
queen of the ball with a constant stream
of stags at her elbow. The civilian
clothes marked a man for the question
of the Charlestonian girls, “Ahrr you-ou
from Dai-yidson?” It is a fascinating
lingo they have and enhances the attrac-
tiveness of the city’s female contingency.

foe

‘in was NOWS...° Cre

TEN YEARS AGO

Furman defeated the Wildcats 6-0 in
a hard fought game in whi¢h the differ-
ence in weight paved the way for the
lone touchdown. One of the outstanding
features of the game came when the
ball went over to Davidson on_their own
six-inch line. Hunt ‘punted the ball
which was touched by the Furman safety
man and was recovered for Davidson by
McConnell.

Dr. W. T. Thompson of Union Semi-
nary is the speaker at the Fall services.
He is proving to be one of the most
popular speakers on the campus in a
long time.

FIVE YEARS AGO

Former Governor Morrison will de-
liver the address in Chambers tomorrow
night, the occasion being the dedicatory
exercises for the $20,000 Skinner pipe
organ which is a gift from Mrs. Morri-
son.

The Wildcat eleven bowed to the Wake
Forest jinx. The Deacons succeeded in
breaking up the Davidson passes and
were able to’ push over the one touch-
down which gave them the game. The
heavy line of the Baptists accounted for
the victory.

A. N. Halverstadt won the fall tennis
tournament by defeating E. Z. DuBose
6-3, 6-4, 6-2.

.

“SELECTED PAPERS
of
PHINEAS SPOON.”

When a man jumps on a horse and
promises to ride off in two directions at
once, someone is being deceived. It will
be the onlookers if they are credulous;
the rider if he is so détermined.

In his public utterances, notably in his
more recent, President Roosevelt has
made much use of the word “Security”.
Indeed, in his last “fireside chat’, he de-
clared with unmistakable emphasis that
the Administration intends to provide a
degree of economic security never before
enjoyed by the American people. When
he says, “I stand or fall on my refusal
to accept as a®necessary condition of the
future a permanent army of ,unemploy-
ed”, that intention is unequivocably
posed. The implication here is that by
new definition the Federal government
is responsible for the continuing economic
prosperity of its citizens.

Astute politician that he is, Mr. Roose-
velt realizes that his constituency is com-
posed of many classes. Not only is
there the class of “the Forgotten Men”,
but there are those who in many ways
jealously covet the constitutional liber-
ties peculiar to the structure of our
government.

In other statements, and with equal
vehemence, the President has addressed
himself to this conservative class. ‘To
them, the assurance has been given that
this program for “Security” will in no
wise compromise the integrity of their
fundamental rights. The student of the
“New Deal” record ought not to be
primarily concerned with the policies
adopted to the progress of business re-
covery. The consideration of vital
moment is the effect that a new economic
philosophy is having on the _ politics]
system under which we live.

There is only one important question
in the air today. “The power to tax is
the power to destroy.” Should it at the
same time be the power “to provide”?

If Mr. Roosevelt means what he says,
“Security” will come only from a drastic
revamping of the American political
structure. It means the fitting of all
business with its infinite variety of com- ;
plex problems into some determined
pattern of prices, wages, and practices.
With prices, wages, and production in- |
timately related, regulation of one’ factor
must necessarily involve regulation of
all three. If there is more to this “Se-
curity” idea than the customary rhetoric
of Rooseveltana, then traditional Ameri-
can institutions may be rocked to their
foundations. For be persuaded, if by
new definition the American government
is responsible for the continuance of
economic prosperity, that obligation: can
be serviced—at a price, 6f course.

The implication seems to be that the
powers of the Federal government can
be multiplied without seriously abridg-
ing the Constitutional powers and liber- ,
ties reserved to the States and to the
People. If the President is sincere in
his promise of unprecedented security
to millions of Americans, then the Fed-
eral government must become Leviathan.

When, on the other hand, Mr. Roose-
velt persists in affirming that his program
entails no fundamental change in the
philosophy of American government he
takes flight from reality. It would seem
very much as though he is trying to be
on both sides of a very embarassing
fence—at one and the same time. The
intention may be sublime. But the ful-
fillment—ah there's the rub!

Mr. Roosevelt is a demagogue unless he
fully intends to establish the “economic
security” with which he so sorely terripts
the Stricken masses. If he is sincere.
this will be an enormous undertaking.

The structure of American industrial
enterprise must be modified and regu-
lated. If, as the President avows, this
is a governmental task, we are headed
for a mammoth bureaucracy. The day
that the Federal government becames
Juggernaut, that day we shall have be-
come not a Federation of States but an
assortment of provinces.

Mr. Roosevelt's protestations to the
contrary, notwithstanding, when Wash-
ington .asstimes responsibility for the
economic fortunes of our people an
epoch will close. There will have been
“brought forth upon this continent a
new nation”. At least Mr. Rooseve't
will have forever ceased to be a Demc-
crat. For it is my recollection that De
mocracy’s prototype, Thomas Jefferson,
was instrumental in devising “a wise and
frugal government”. He wished to pre-
serve the State governments in all their
vigour; which, at that time, meant prac-
tically independent and sovereign com-
monwealths,

It is impressed upon me that, if as
Lincoln said, a government cannot exist
half slave and_half free, neither can. it
live half Jefferson and half Roosevelt!
Certainly not when the two ingredients
are now mixed in the blurred mentalities
of the same individuals.

All of. this reference to the “antiquat-
ed precepts” of another day, is not to
condemn Mr. Roosevelt’s perhaps en-
lightened conception of the “responsibili-
ties of government”.

It is only to point out that the Consti-

Continued on Page 3, Col. 1
