THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 21,

1934

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER

Associated Eollegiate Press
31934 Gollegiale Digest 1935 =
MADSOM WISCONSIN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

Ka-D.WEEKS 36.4006. 6 6 8s ce .  Rdltor
J. A.C. WADSWORTH .. .. Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
Mastin Barnett -- ae Managing Editor
Paut Haran -.- --Managing Editor
Tom—-MarcHANT .-...-....--....---- ----Managing Editor
JoHN WALKER ---- oe wing Editor
VARV RY? GUASS con scesccuawuuuesccscsees Managing Editor
Lawont Brown - -----S ports Editor
Enw Bowsers ----- --Exchange Editor
Caruyre Lewis -.. --Feature Editor
Scorry McLeop - --Feature Editor
G. L. Guuerte .- ~-Associate Editor
ip MORHAIY ciccscuscacccsuscuenes ces Associate Editor
B. L. Rose --. Associate Editor
ACK HELUINGER: access Jesu a2 jo aearee Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
Ui By Goshen, 2o2 Seen ened Asst. Business Mgr.
VAL CASSELs - --Asst. Business Mgr.

SLOMAROSS) cseuccce
J. S: McMutren ---.
R. P. Morrow

--Asst. Business Mgr.
--Asst. Business Mgr.
Asst. Business Mgr.

1934

Language most shows a man; speak that I may see
thee; it springs out of the most retired and inmost
part of s.—BEN_JONson.

PARAGRAPHICS

The last issue of the HI-PO, official publication
of High Point College, carried a report submitted
by the new board of trustees which said that this
board would consider at its next meeting a petition
submitted by the student body asking that dances be
brought on the campus. In this same report it was
stated that the board would gladly consider any
problems or petitions in behalf of the student body.
The tone of this article gave the impression that a
favorable verdict was expected from the board of
trustees,

The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa is in-
deed honored to have two such distinguished gen-
tlemen as Congressmen Bulwinkle and Clark accept
membership in the fraternity. Not only is it a credit
to the local Circle but to the fraternity national
also, The banquet held after the initiation last Mon-
day night was one of the most successful and one
of the most enjoyable that O. D. K. has ever held
here. Gordon “Skip” Brown, president of the
Delta Circle, proved his ability as a toastmaster, He
performed most efficiently and entertainingly in this
capacity.

DAVIDSON ALUMNI WIN
NATIONAL PROMINENCE \ X ]
ITHIN
the last few. months, two» Davidson graduates have
won national prominence. ‘They are, Mr. S, Clay
Williams, who is the new leader and chairman of
the National Recovery Administration succeeding
General Hugh S. Johnson, and Mr, Don Wharton,

author of a new best-seller, The Roosevelt Omni--

bus. These two men have not only brought glory
upon themselves, but they have also brought glory
g upon their Alma Mater of which we are very proud
and for which we wish to congratulate them upon
their recent accomplishments and wish them con-
tinued success. ,

Mr. Williams’ record since he graduated from
Davidson College with an A.B. degree in 1905, is
one that is in keeping with the fine record that he
made during his four years here. He took active
participation in many of the school activities, being
editor of two publications, the Davidson Magazine,
not now-in-existence} andthe “Quips and Cranks”
which is still published annually. He was also an
exceptional student, making the honor roll most of
his time here.

For a number of years, Mr. Williams served as
president of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. in
Winston-Salem through which he became connected
with the Wagner Labor Relations board, being chair-
man $f that body. His recent appointment by the
President to the position of chairman of the NRA
board is one that is difficult to fill and is one that
carries with it high honors. It marks him as one
of the outstanding men in the nation, especially so
since he has been elected to steer this board through
the present time of crisis. Unless the position has
been shorn of its former prestige, he is probably
more powerful than any other administrative

official with the exception of the President himself.
The eyes of the nation are on Mr. Williams and his
difficult task.

Mr. Wharton, a native of Smithfield and a gradu-
ate of the class of 1927, likewise made a good record
while at Davidson College. As would be expected,
he devoted most of his extra-curricular efforts tow-
ard the literary line having been quite active in the
Literary Societies. His volume, The Roosevelt
Omnibus, which has recently been published has re-
ceived much praise from leading American critics,
among them Lewis Gannett. Mr. Wharton is com-
paratively young yet, but his literary brilliance has
already achieved for him a fine reputation in select
circles,

These men are two among many of our alumni
of whom we are proud on account of their accom-
plishments. The average college cannot boast of
such illustrious sons—men that spent their most im-
portant formative years at Davidson College. ‘Ac-
complishments of such men and, in fact, of every
alumni bear a reflection on the school and on the
faculty of which we are all justly proud.

OUR ADVERTISERS,
PATRONIZE THEM! P

ATRONIZE our
advertisers. Although there is a mutual benefit de-
rived by both the advertiser and “The Davidson-
ian”, the advertisers are the ones that help make
possible the publishing of our paper. They are the
ones that are most interested in you and your wel-
fare. This is manifest by the fact that they solicit
your patronage by advertising in “The Davidson-
ian”. Why not give them first consideration when
you are buying, whether in Davidson or Charlotte
or wherever you may be?

With this issue there will begin two different and
new types of advertising, that is, different in the
way the ad is set up. The Charlotte Hotel under
new management has expressed the desire that
Davidson men make it their headquarters whenever
they are in Charlotte. Each week the Hotel will
sponsor in “The Davidsonian” an ad announcing
special features and attractions that will be of in-
terest to Davidson men.

Ivey's Department Store of Charlotte will each
week sponsor aii ad in the nature of a style column,
featuring pictures and descriptions of the latest
styles of clothes for young men.

When buying remember our advertisers and don’t
forget to tell them you saw it advertised in “The
Davidsonian”,

ANOTHER HONOR
SYSTEM UNDER FIRE a
HIS year has
seen the passing of the Honor System in several of
the South’s largest and most prominent schools.
Within the last few months, the School of Arts and
Science of Tulane University and N. C. State Col-
lege have abandoned the System. Only a year or
two ago Georgia Tech did away with its Honor
System. Other colleges are at present contem-
plating taking the same action, the System having
been in existence for a number of years but having
never functioned successfully.

In almost every case where the Honor System has
been abolished it was done because it was said to be
unfair to those that abided by it. A small group
of students, especially where it was not vigorously
enforced, would repeatedly violate the regulations of
the Honor System depending on others in order to
pass their work, but would nevertheless get just as
much credit as those that abided by it. At one col-
lege it was made evident by a poll of the students
there that the System was failing because a majority
of the students signified that they would not report
infringers of the code knowing that sever disciplin-
ary steps would be taken against the guilty ones if
they were reported.

At the University of South Carolina, where the
Honor System is now on trial, a vote was sponsored
by the “Gamecock” the results of which showed that
only one student out of three would be willing to
report a case of cheating provided the offender
would be punished. Naturally, under these condi-
tions nothing but failure can be predicted. An edi-
torial in the “Gamecock” made the statement that
“the percentage was not large but if each of these
students who voted “yes” was sincere, then there is
a possibility the Honor System can be enforced.”
Only one-fourth of the student body voted. So
small a percentage of the students voting on so
vital a question demonstrates the fact that there is
a general indifferent attitude as to the status of the
Honor System. Although there are some that would
vigorously uphold the institution, they are fighting
against overwhelming odds. Indications of this
sort put a pessimistic outlook on the future existence
of the Honor System at the University of South
Carolina.

It is to be hoped that this trend can be checked—
that wherever the Honor System is hanging in the
balance these institutions will take warning from
the above examples and undertake to more rigidly
enforce it. Although failure results from the con-
duct of a few, it is nevertheless a reflection on the
student body as a whole.

OPEN FORUM

Letters to the Editor will appear in this
column each week hereafter.
(Note: “The Davidsonian” does not
necessarily endorse or accept any opin-
ions expressed in this column).

118 E. Smith St.

Greensboro, N. C.

Nov. 12, 1934.
Dear Editor:

I would like to send my subscription
to The Davidsonian as I liked so much
an editorial in a recent copy sent me by
a friend.

The contention voiced by this article
has my heartiest sympathy. It is nat-
ural and right for the students to be
free to express themselves through the
medium of their own publication, pro-
vided it is done in a Christian spirit,
without personalities or intolerance.

In another matter I claim “The privi-
lege of antiquity” (according to Shake-
speare) to express my sentiments. Not
only age, but having had a preacher fath-
er and three preacher brothers, my opin-
ion on Church matters should have some
weight, though only a woman, As I
look back to a former generation it
seems to me that a man who “abstained
from all worldly amusements,” attended
regularly Sunday school, Church, pray-
er meeting—praying fervently and long,
was unquestionably considered one of the
elect, though he might be close-fisted,
hard, and unfriendly. Today a Chris-
tian is expected to give a just propor-
tion of his time, his talents, and his
money to his Lord and “to do justly,
love mercy, and to walk humbly before
his God.” Such a man can be trusted
in regard to “worldly amusements.”

The “salt of the earth” needs earthly
contacts to be effective. Our Saviour
said, “I pray not that thou shouldst take
them out of the world, but that thou
shouldst keep them from the evil.” I
am convinced that any evil connected
with dancing can be eliminated or con-
trolled on the Davidson campus, certain-
ly better than in a city twenty miles
away. Music, rhythm, and dancing are
natural instincts in our young people.
Do not drive them away from a sheltered
environment. Neither feel that the state-
ment “There is no dancing at Davidson”
is anything but an evasion,

I speak also for ‘the mothers of- the
girls who attend. They deplore the fact

‘that Davidson dances are not at David-

son, controlled by the college spirit and
atmosphere.
Let us pray that blind eyes may be
opened,
Sincerely interested,
Mrs. Lunsrorp RIcHArpSON, Sr.

OUR
ontemporartes

By Enip Bowers

Colleginia

Control of athletics at Cornell Univer-
sity, both intercollegiate and intramural,
has been invested this year in a three-
man committee on athletic control, ap-
pointed by the president of the university.
It is the first time in its history that the
university is in the position of directly
fostering sports... Organization of an
American Academy--of Poets through
which it is the hope to provide between
eight and ten $5,000 fellowships annually
to American writers ... M. I. T. Cath-
olic Club gave a dance several days ago
and the admission prices depended on
the chemical value of the girl. This
was done through some set of meters .. .
Delta Upsilon Fraternity recently cele-
brated its 100th anniversary at a conven-
tion at Williams College, Williamstown,
Mass. ... Hunk Anderson’s little daugh-
ter is playing mascot to the Freshman
football team; she wouldn’t go with the
Varsity—they lose too many games...
Young students at the University of
Michigan receive $15,000 yearly in prizes
for their novels, plays, poems:and essays.
The money is paid from a special fund,
and the prizes are open only to students
in the department of rhetoric in the Uni-
versity .. . :

C'OMPASSING

the.
CAMPUS

. fi ;

By Scorry McLrop

A splendid illustration of the psycho-
logical fact that power without moral
support constitutes a weakening influence
on any body of people may be taken in
the Duke-Carolina fray and the circum-
stances which surround it. The night
before the big game, both schools had
pep meetings on their respective cam-
puses. At Carolina, practically the en-
tire student body was on hand and a
mammoth cheering meet was held to en-
courage and exhort the Tar Heel players
to play their very best football on the
morrow. The congregation showed
spirit and absolutely shouted to the team
that the entire school was supporting
the football squad. At Duke, a very
small attendance was noted at their so-
called “pep meeting’ Friday night be-
cause the average Dukester felt that the
game was a push-over, a cinch, a walk-
away, and in the “bag.” We purpose to
venture the suggestion that if the Duke
students had displayed as much spirit,
enthusiasm, and evidence of moral sup-
port as did the Carolina boys that the
outcome of the game might conceivably
have been otherwise, But the spirit that
evidently pervaded the Duke campus was
one of over-confidence and assurance of
victory. Not for long can such a spirit en-
dure anywhere; it is inherently destruc-
tive to a wholesome triumph and incom-
patible with thé real and proper spirit
of college loyalty and devotion. We
may be assured of victory, in a sense,
but the expression of that assurance in
whole-hearted and enthusiastic support is
the proper and vital force which should
be the foundation of our collegiate char-
acter.

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa

initiated six new men Monday night in

their usual impressive ceremony attended
by campus notables and two national fig-
ures: Major Bulwinkle, of Gastonia; and
Congressman Clark, of Fayetteville. All
the new initiates are members of the
Senior class and were tapped several
weeks ago in the chapel exercises.

PERSIFLAGE: The arrival of the
volley-ball season in a whir of dust and
flying hands ... Herb Willis and Stuckey
with a flat tire just out of Chester, S. C.
... Bob Atwater with Miss Crum at the
Duke-Carolina,game in Chapel Hill; a
most versatile man with the femmes...
Bud Hunter, Charlie Harris, and Mal
Grimes left Charlie Thompson on the
campus when they toured this week-end

. Charlie swears he'll make up for
it... . Tom Downie needing a cup and
cane in Columbia, S. C. . . . Reggie
Harris made a serious mistake in the
Hotel Columbia too . . . Phifer Erwin
was on time for chapel one day last week,
creating a near-sensation . . . The fine
musical vespers in Chambers last Sunday
evening with all the campus musical or-
ganizations in evidence . . . Fred Fleagle,
one-time famous track star at Davidson,
visited the Kappa Sig house here Sun-
day ... We still remember some people
at the Home-coming affair: Misses
Feuchtenberger, Morton, Crosby, Robin-
son, Dyer, Wharton, Taylor, Walker,
and Messrs, Ravenel, Macfie, Creech,
Kirkland, and McCallie.

Phineas Spoon, that verbose observer
of modern times, varied his usual selec-
tion from his written papers last week
to present a thoroughly interesting re-

‘i7 was NWS... out eee

NOVEMBER 25, 1914
A petition from the student body to

the executive committee for an extension
of the Christmas holidays was granted.
. . » The holidays will be from Dec. 23
to Jan. 5... The Wildcats were primed
for their Thanksgiving battle with Wake
Forest in Charlotte .
were expected to attend the Senior
speaking exercises . . . The Seniors and
Freshmen, tied for the lead in the bas-
ketball tournament,
"NOVEMBER 20, 1919

Carolina downed D. C. 10-0 after a
hard defensive battle by the. Wildcats.
. .. The Juniors and Sophomores were
tied for first place in the intramural bas-
ketball tournament with each team hav-
ing two more games to play ... The
State . Student Volunteers Union an-
nounced that their state convention
would be held here early in the spring.

. . Over 100 girls].

NOVEMBER 20, 1924
Carolina defeated Davidson 6-0. The

score was made by two field goals kicked
by Bunn Hackney in the last quarter. . . .
The R. O. T. C. department was mak-
ing plans to have an air map made of
the college by airplanes from Ft. Bragg.
Nearly ali the fraternities gave
house parties after the U. N. C. game,
about 100 girls attending . . . The an-
nual fall golf tournament got underway
with 30 men qualifiying.
NOVEMBER 21, 1929 b)

Davidson was prepared to meet the
Duke Blue Devils in a Thanksgiving
tilt on Richardson Field . . . The Stunt
Night held after the Home-coming game
was a big success... Dr. W. L. Lingle
delivered the Home-coming Day address.
... The Y plans to raise a Home Mis-
sion Fund to be sent to Lees McRae
school in Banner Elk. .,

|

“SELECTED PAPERS
0
Y puINEAS SPOON.”

A Reflection on the League of Nations
Part One

The League of Nations was created,
and is maintained, as a mechanism of
government meant to furnish the several
nations with a more equitable instrument
for world action than the hitherto legiti-
mate practice of rule by force.

The circumstances constant with its
genesis made this function imperative.
As an agency for world peace, the
“League” is essentially built around the
status-quo, and ipso facto, must perpet-
uate national integrity and _ political
frontiers as fixed by the participation
powers at Versailles. The very word
“Versailles” holds different connotations
for different bodies. of peoples. To .
some states it signifies security, and par-
ticularly in the Balkans it-is the symbol
of release, of resurrection, and even of
genesis, But to other great states, with
equal sensibilities, it is anathema and the
eternal reminder of inordinate subjec-
tion which time and renewed nationalis-
tic energies must reverse.

A decade has passed since the Peace
in Paris. Now, in sober retrospect, we
can see that it was not a just peace. It
is for the peoples concerned to say
whether it has left “any trace of a rank-
ling sense of injustice.’ To the calcu-~
lating eye, Versailles conceived, not an
instrument of peace but rather an in-
strument of vengeance in a tacit attempt
to crush forever a former leading power
in the concert of Europe.

We must not forget these peoples who
have been emasculated by its terms, for
they never can forget us. Looking at
what was done at Versailles, it is incon-
sistent with historical precedent that so
great a repudiation of hunwnity and jus-
tice should not soon inspire revalt, or
that the struggle for freedom should
not before long be taken up afresh.

No peace can be=perpetuated but a
just peace. No western peoples have ac-
quiesced for long in what they consid-
ered to be oppression.

Indeed, no one else can claim to be
judge of what constitutes oppression than
that people themselves. This is the new
doctrine of “self-determinism.” All have
their breaking point. Even our Ameri-
can republic Owes its birth to the armed
refusal on the part of the Colonists to
tolerate longer a_ status-quo against
which they conscientiously rebellert

Natural law is neither intimidated nor
annulled by arbitrary treaty. Action is
still followed by reaction; cause by ef-
fect. The revenge phenomenon is an
historical fact. Any scheme for world
peace which ignores the human capacity
for blind passion and reprisal is liable
to be wrecked when faced ,with the prac-
tical realities which today lead to war.

For forty years the French ostensibly
acquiesced in the Treaty of Frankfort.
But in their thinking the French never
ceased to hope for the recovery of the
lost provinces of Alsace and Lorraine.
Nor could they forget the humiliating
conditions of the peace which sealed the
loss.

Tn 1919 France realized a long nurtured
ambition. This was not a coincidental
phenomenon. It was the plain consum-
mation of a generation’s hopes.

M. Poincare clearly and forcefully epi-
tomized this revanche psychosis when
he asserted to university students be-
fore the war:

“In my years at school, my thought
bowed before the spectre of defeat, dwelt
ceaselessly on the frontier which, the
Treaty of Frankfort had imposed upon
us, and when I descended from my meta-
physical clouds I could discover no ot
reason why my generation should go
living except for the hope of recovering
our lost provinces.”

We are not attempting here a contro-
versial treatment of any party’s claim
to the territory at issue. We are endeav-
oring to stress the inevitable mutability
and the temporary nature of a peace, a
status-quo arrived at by conquest.

The truth of this point is strikingly
emphasized by a very simple alteration
in the above quotation of French right-
eous indignation. One has only to sub-
stitute the word “Versailles” for “Frank-
fort” and one has ,the equally consistent
protest of a young German rising from
the ranks to assumption of leadership
like Poincare’s with potentialities of
equal fruition. And so the viscious circle
is complete.

PHINEAS Spoon.

Ed. Note—This is part one of a paper
on the “League of Nations.” The second
section follows in this column next week.

view of alumnus Don Wharton’s great
new book, “Roosevelt Omnibus.” Usually
interesting, Mr. Spoon aroused a new ap-
peal in his last “Selected Paper” by
touching a novel chord for him.

The spectacular rise to new dramatic
heights of pretty little Jean Muir in
her recent starting vehicle, Desirable...
The ominous softness of Warner Oland’s
detective manner as Charlie Chan...
Pugnacious James Cagney and vivacious
Patricia Ellis putting over St. Louis
Kid...
