THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 21, 1934

The PDavidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

As sociated Eolleginte Pres
Conon ES =

== 1933 (uation covtnact) 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION
legiate year.

RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office nt wexAe,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd,

PaLLOLCey ‘BY publication must be in the hands of othe Ek Editors
b hea P m., Monday. Letters to fe Editor are
but al Pp
must be signed.
ODI CASALI shes Editor
W. T. JOHNSON..--..- B M
EDITORIAL STAFF
G. L. GULLETTE..... i
E. F. McPHAIL i
B. L. ROS
K. D. WE M Editor
Rane HELLINGER eepebecsauscesa sas ccauscuuksccueuee rice Editor
AWLING FRATT- THOMAS Edi ial Writer
5 A. HUNTE h Editor
. B. BAILEY ‘eature Editor
S. K. EATON Feature Editor
Cc. S. McCALL ‘eature Editor
L. W. CLARDY A Editor
A. F, sete A Editor
WwW. M. PSON.._-.-..--------------------------Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
G. L. GREEN......... A: tant M
W. _L. SPRUNT. A Manager
» R. TAYLOR.....-... A Manager
. A. C-- WADSWORTH. Assistant Manager
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 1934
Labor -begets manhood. —Euripides.

g
”

RADIOS IN THE DORMITORIES
Following a petition by the President of the
Student Body, students are now allowed to have
radios in their rooms. This comes after the
efforts of Mrs. N. T. Smith and Julian West to
get more enjoyment for the students in their
college lives.

This plan being nothing more than a trial this
year, students owning radios should give their
support to the few regulations that have been
placed on them. In this way, there should be no
trouble, and radios will be allowed permanently,
instead of as an experiment.

This is one ruling that is pleasant to all those
students concerned. However, if they will not
show their appreciation of the levity allowed
them, the privilege will be taken away, tending
towards more co-operation among the stydents
wr aud. Salty capteacemmniieeiiiiemeedaldln oe

The restrictions are simple: merely to régister
the radios. This is the one rule that all must
follow. Then when a student shows so little
appreciation as to have complaints made against
his radio, three of these will cause him to lose
it for the balance of the year. With such rea-
sonable rules, there would be no excuse for any-
one to lose his radio, and the doing of such would
be entirely through his own carelessness.

That conditions are included in the Radio Reg-
ulation is only natural, and made entirely for
the consideration of others, which should be. It
would be hard to study with too much music,
and the regulations are listed for this reason.

Mrs. Smith and Julian West are to be congrat-
ulated upon their success in getting the ban on
radios lifted. It is laws such as these that cause
closer co-operation between students and fac-
ulty.

“D” CLUB’S NEW CONSTITUTION

Dr. W. L. Lingle recently stated in chapel that
a school can be judged by its athletic teams. I
would like to add that a school is just as fre-
quently judged by the way it treats visiting
teams. Taking care of visiting teams, one of the
chief functions of the D Club, is unobserved by
the student body, but is a force that spreads pro-
Davidson feeling among other colleges arid helps
to get athletes here from high schools.

Another one of the quiet actions of the D Club
recently came forth unobserved, but is of great
significance. A number of amendments to the
club’s constitution, instigated by” some of the
members and approved by the coaches, were
made in their last meeting.

The altered constitution was published in the
last issue of “The Davidsonian” so that every
student might see the part which he takes in it,
This is specified in Article No. 2 under the head
of “Method of Supporting Training Regulations,”
which states that the D Club shall make public
the training regulations and names of the mem-
‘bers of each squad.

But the following article under the same head-
ing put the strength in it. It provided that men
accused of violating training rules shall be tried
by the D Club, and if found guilty by two-thirds
of the members, he shall be dropped from the
athletic squad.

This amendment caused no more discussion
than the others on attendance and membership,
but each man in the club felt, as he voted for
the measure, that he was doing more than sim-
ply voting for a new rule. The Honor System
pas worked well at Davidson for many years
and proves it is a high type school. This meas-

ure goes right in line with that system, and em-

bellishes it with a praiseworthy example of stu-

dents’ moral responsibility.

_This “is_a_strong moral code that will work, |
and. no doubt will improve our athletic teams

both in ability and spirit. Spirit has rarely been

lacking in the famous fighting Wildcat teams,

but a few unsuccessful seasons of late have

caused a current of feeling that a little more

strict adherence to the training rules by some

men would have crowned more of that spirit

with success. It is with this view that the D

Club has taken upon itself the duty of raising
training standards to a maximum,

I believe that all Davidson meri are behind this
move, and for this reason it will succeed. One
man will surely suffer from this policy, but all
the rest will benefit by his misfortune. I think
the D Club should be congratulated for its fine
move for finer teams and finer men on the teams.

—G. L. G.

PERHAPS A WORD OR TWO

Few students realize that their professors and
instructors, besides being teachers, also have as
one of their duties the giving of counsel and
advice. If a student is failing, or not doing as
well in a course as he ought to be, he should go
to his instructor, find out why he is not succeed-
ing in his. work and learn how to go about rais-
ing his grade. If the instructor is intent on car-
rying out his duties, he will listen understand-
ingly to all who come to him.

However the regular procedure in such cases
like this is far from ideal. The student who
thinks he deserves a high grade, but who re-
ceives a low one, goes off to his room and sulks,
tells his friends his professor is a villain, and
becomes generally embittered. The professor
decides that this student is not sufficiently inter-
ested in his work and continues to give him low
grades.

And so the situation, at best a rather foolish
one.

There is a great difference between going to
see a professor to try to understand why one is
not succeeding in his work, and outright “boot-
licking” for high grades. Fear of being accused
of doing the latter keeps many boys from doing
the former.

Examinations are not far away. It is pretty
unpleasant to fail a course when one feels that.
he deserves to pass.

Let’s think about
with the profoge

hat—maybe a little talk

” —The ‘Florida Alligator.

Here and There

“Good order and justice—that is the religion
of democracy,” Dr. William L. Bryan, president
of Indiana University, declared recently.

{2 ————

Exactly $6,360.0 was distributed to students
at Indiana University as their first CWA pay
check,

A revolving stage is being used in a current
production of the University of Nebraska Temple
Theater Players.

Governor George White of Ohio led the list
of chaperones fo rthe-Ohio State University
prom this year. oe

A course in aeronautics will be offered at the
Universtiy of Kentucky as a CWA project. —~

A very fancy hothouse lamb produced by the
Pennsylvania State College Agriculturalists has
been purchased by Secretary of the Treasury
Morgenthau to be served at a dinner ‘m honor

_of President Roosevelt.

A serum that is claimed to be a 100 per cent
cure for whooping cough has been perfected by
Prof. Louis W. Sauer of the University of Chi-
cago Medical School.

A special study of hypnotism is being made
by scientists of the College of the City 6f New
York.

The Illinois legislature has asked the attorney
general of that state to investigate the merger
of Chicago and Northwestern Universities.

Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor in Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s cabinet, was known as Fanny
Cora Perkins when she was a member of the
Mount Holyoke College class of 1902.

‘The weekly newspaper of Montana State Col-
lege has organized a “dating” bureau to aid lone-
ly stags and wall-flower co-eds.

Secretary of Agriculture Wallace recently
made a trip to mid-western institutions and gave
speeches at the University of Chicago and the
University of Wisconsin.

|

Forty-three colleges in the United States have

blye and white as their colors.

NEWS DIGEST

; By DOPEY McCALL
| ___+_===sSNAVAL DISASTER _

eccur to the Japanese fleet in peace-
time was the capsizing of the torpedo
boat Tomozura with the loss of one
hundred and six officers and men. The
secretly-designed vessel was capsized
off the Sarebo Naval Base during ma-
neuvers and the accident came as a
great shock to the Japanese naval-au-
thorities. Efforts to locate the bodies
of the victims are still being continued,
but hope has practically been aband-
oned. Unofficial reports contribute the
accident to faulty design.

BANGHART AND CONNERS

Basil Banghart and Charles Conners,
the two men who are wanted in Char-
lotte for the one hundred and twenty-
five thousand dollar mail robbery, are
out of the way for good and will never
be tried for their Charlotte crime.
Banghart was sentenced to serve nine-

the kidnapping of Max Factor, The
verdict was returned by the jury in
less than two hours of deliberation.
Conners was found dead in a ditch, a
victim of ganglands war for the sur-
vival of the fittest. Expensively
clothed and gloved, his murderers had
put a cent in his hand as their sign
of contempt, and left him. propped
against the side of the ditch.

DARWIN VINDICATED

What’s this? Over in London there
has been born a baby with a tail about
two inches long. This is not the first
time that such a thing has happened
and it always creates a stir and brings
up the same old argument of evolu-
tion. Darwin did not say that the hu-
man originate from the monkey di-
rectly, but that man and monkey fol-
lowed a parallel course of develop-
ment and that the man outstripped the
monkey. Anyway, it makes a mighty
fine argument for a rainy day when
there is nothing else to. do. Oh yes,
did you also know™that children had
been born with gill slits in their necks?

BONUS BILL

The House of Representatives broke
away from the President and the ad-
ministration to pass the veterans’ bonus
bill, 295 to 125. This was enough to
override the veto of the President,
which he said previonsly that he would
use. The bill provides that two thou-

the bonus money should be distributed
now among the veterans. The bill has
gone to the Senate, but the question is,
will the Senate disobey the dictates of
the President or will the bill die at
this stage? The general opinion as ex-
pressed is that the bonus bill will never
get by and that there is nothing to

fear. re
qs
INSULL

The case of Insull is one which
brings a touch of pity. As you re-
member, the Grecian authorities or-
dered that he must be returned to the
“United States by April 1. Well, Insull
took heed to their notice and#ast.week
he attempted to slip out of Greece on
a boat. It raised a furore among the
officials who blamed everybody for the
escape of the man who had formerly
befriended Greece. The captain of the
boat was ordered to return and bring
Insull as prisoner, which was done.
Then the authorities, tired of the fuss
and furore that his presence in Greece
caused, ordered him out. He immedi-
ately boarded a ship and started for
the coast of Africa to try and lose him-
self in the country of the ancient
Libians. Insull is old and tired. He
has already paid the price for his trans-
gressions. He is the modern example of
the man without a country. Could any-
thing be worse?

PRO AND CON

The committee investigating the air
mail controversy or whether the army
should fly the mail or not is having a
trying time. The biggest figures in
American aviation history have ex-
pressed their opinions on the matter.
Chamberlain defends the present pol-
icy. Lindbergh is not in favor of it
and the debate between the two is
waxing fast and furious. While the
argument goes on, another army flyer
is killed in Wyoming while making a
test flight.

SITUATION IN THE EAST

Feeling has increased to fever pitch
since Soviet frontier guards discovered
a Japanese schooner in their own
waters. The captain of the ship de-
clared that he was- engaged in sci-
entific fishing and that engine trouble
had caused him to halt. However, the
Soviet authorities declare that he had
short wave radio equipment in his boat
for sending messages. The case is sig-
nificant in view of the recent protest
by the Japanese government against
Soviet airmen flying over their terri-
tory. Moscow subsequently denied

such flights were being made.

The second great naval disaster to

ty-nine years ir™prison for‘his part in,

aaad. four-hundred million dctlars ¢f.)- -

Art Collection Is
Now On Display

Exhibit Consists of 125 Creations
by German Artists eo

Works of modern German artists are
now on display in the banquet hall of
Chambers auditorium, and will con-
tinue to be shown throughout this
week.

The exhibit, which consists of 125
original etchings, woodcuts, and litho-
graphs, is being circulated among col-
leges and universities throughout the
United States under the auspices of
the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation,
an organization for the promotion of
cultural relations between this and
German-speaking countries. The Ger-
man department is sponsoring the ex-
hibition here.

The exhibit is arranged to show the
development .of the various modern
trends in art during the last fifty years
in Germany, and begins with the work
of Max Liebermann, born in 1847, and
for thirty years president of the Prus-
sian Academy. In this group, which
illustrates the impressionistic era, are
found works by Lovis Corinth, Max
Slevgot and Hans Meid.

In the school of naturalism are
shawn lithographs of Robert Sterl and
Kaethe Kollwitz, with a complete set
of her illustrations for “The Weavers,”
by Gerhart Hauptmann, “ Proletariat”
and “ Peasants’ Revolt.”

Representing the school of expres-
sionism are Karl Hofer,.Max Pech-
stein, Max Beckman, Kokoschka, Erich
Heckel, Ernst Barlach the sculptor, and
Emil Nolde.

The abstract field is illustrated by
compositions by Kadinsky, leader of
this movement, Schlemmer, Baumeis-
ter, Kampendonck and Feininger. Con-
ventional and decorative designs, por-
traits and landscapes are also included
by such well-known artists as Renee
Sintenis, Hans Jaeger, von Hoffman,
Karl Bauer, Emil Orlik and Walter
Klemm.

Explanatory talks on the works are
given by a representative of the found-
ation. The exhibition is free to the
public as well-as to students.

DR. GILBERT GLASS OF
RICHMOND DIES AT HOME

(Continued from’ page 1)

Sunday School literature and publica-
tions in the Presbyterian Church in
the United States. At the time of his
death he was pastor of, Bon Air Pres-
byterian Church in Bon Air, Va., where
he had been for several years,

PROGRAM PRESENTED
BY HIGH SCHOOL BAND

(Continued from page 1)
Ralph Boldin
The Bells of St. Mary’s------_- Adams

March Lenoir Losey

Woodwind Quintet—Danse Humor-

OSQUE Meese sanear ee Seay Hunter

Il Trovatore Selection---------_- Verdi
INTERMISSION

Echoes From the Metropolitan Opera

Hose: sass esa ee Tobani

Cornet Solo—by Jake Martin
March From “Peers of Iolanthe

—Sullivan

Brass Quartet—Potpourri of Standard

Overtures —arr. Lake
Selections from the “Red Mill”

—Herbert

Star Spangled Banner

DILLINGER

Dillinger, the bad man of the mo-
ment, is still at large. An army of
officers has massed in the thumb dis-
trict of Michigan as one of Dillinger’s
pals, Herbert Youngblood, a negro
companion, was killed while attempt-
ign to escape from a cafe in aa
Huron, On his deathbed he told offi-
cers that Dillinger had accompanied
him to the town and was in hiding
there. So the mammoth hunt goes on
while four officers who were wounded
in the gun battle with Youngblood are
slowly recovering in the hospital as a
result of their too zealous behavior.

On Other Campuses

. At the University of Oklahoma,
a professor of public speaking flunked
an overawed student with the .cryptic,

“So you won't talk, eh?”

. and while we are discussing
senior privileges (?), it might be in-
teresting to note that optional attend-
ance at classes has been granted to
students with a B average at South-
western College, Winfield, Kansas. The
experiment will be tried during the sec-
ond ‘semester with a possibility of
making it a permanent part of the
system,

. “Lafayete, we are gone!” s
dale 56 Lehigh students after rg
were suspended for engaging in a free-
for-all-fight in which two Lafayette
students were sent to the hospital. Two
Lehigh freshmen are reported to have
started the riot in order to cover up
zn intended robbery of the gate re-
ceipts of the game between the two
colleges.

. From 10 to 150 students of po-
litical science will have an opportunity
to study the government at Washing-
ton next winter, and will get credit
fot it from their own colleges. The
“institute” will be non-partisan, but
the donor remains unknown.

. Not very long ago, students at
Temple raised a howl to get student
representation on the athletic council,
but imagine their consternation when
they found that they had the privilege
all along, but for the past two years
the student council forgot to elect
members to that job.

. And then there is that one told
on the dean of a certain mid-western
institution who was handing out di-
plomas to a long line of M.D,’s when
a woman in the audience fainted. In
a loud voice, the dean asked, “Is there
a doctor in the house?”

. “Being broke all the time makes
me writhe.”

“Don’t writhe,—telegraph !" ~
—Arizona Kitty Kat.

GLASGOW TALKS
TO STUDENTS

(Continued from page 1)
plenty of other graduates that are not
and consequently the. employer does
not accept this as a final indication of
his ability.

Mr. Glasgow added that the time for
the student to go into business is not
exactly the best at présent but the stu-
dent should not worry about this.
“Where there is a will, there is a
way.” The competition and efficiency
of today has doubled that of ten years
ago, but even so, there are jobs for
those that have determination, honesty,
and the ability to close a deal.

The speaker recommended that ac-
counting be added to the student’s
knowledge of business, as that. will
prove beneficial later. Work in offices
or post-graduate work is one way of
furthering one’s knowledge. How-
ever, if the student does not have the
means to take up graduate work, he
should not feel that his chances are
lessened, for it is not at all necessary.

When asked the question, “How
will the NRA be disposed of?” Mr.
Glasgow replied that no one knew, al-
though he believed that it is going to
be the background for the development
of an “Industrial Congress” and should
later lead to a “mild blending of cap-
italism and socialism.”

Catalog for Coming
Year Now Available

The 1934 Davidson College catalogues
are now available, according to an an-
nouncement from the registrar. Any
student may obtain a copy of the cata-
logue by calling by his office.

Mr. Hengeveld also stated that stu-
dents would be called upon to register
during the week of April 9th to 14th,
and that possibly the catalogue would
be of service to them in arranging
their courses.

SW TTT a

STATIONERY

CALLING CARDS |

FRATERNITY PAPERS

’ Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

PROGRAMS

TRA

See BILL JOHNSON

203 Watts

=]

@ Garland Court °

HTT Hit WHIT ATT il Wn j

Standard Printing Company

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

AA

] i

AAAIHAUUCTAIUT ARTA

.
