THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 238, 1934

Che PMabidsontan

JUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated Golleginte Press

“1933 Caarionar} tovEMeD) 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
legiate year.

Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors
y 4:00 o'clock p. m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are
welcome, but all communications intended for publication

must be signed.

ODI_CASALI_........ sukcceasssct. ae Editor
W. T. JOHNSON. ue B Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF ;

G. L. GULLETTE ayes Managing Editor
E. F. McPHAIL Managing Editor
B. L. ROSE.-.-. anaging Editor
K. D, WEEKS. anaging Editor
WAS HELLINGER2 so 2cccsccszscessccctin cc ponces scene Alumni Editor

AWLING iri Y HOMAS eesse ec ccutacaccccdeap Editorial Writer
5 A. HUNTE Exchange Editor

. B, BAILEY Seosubesrasdorsceeranus Feature Editor
S. K. TO. ---Feature Editor
Cc. S. -Feature Editor
DoW CRARD Vesta chia ee -Associate Editor
A, F. = -A Editor
W._M. THOMPSON -+---+---------------Associate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, JR re -Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

yess’ GREEN ocorastecuuaces act baeauiee ssistant Business Manager
W, 20, “SPRUNT sce ee ADELL Business whe
}: R. TAYLOR.

. A. C. WADSWORTH................ aeetant arenes

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 1934

He who frecly magnifies what hath been nobly
done, and fears not to declare as freely what might
be done better, gives ye the best covenant of his
fidelity. —John Milton.

The Student Body extends its sympathy
to Grier Martin in the loss he has suffered
in the death of his father.

DAVIDSONIAN NOMINATIONS
By virtue of their work on “The Davidsonian”

during the past year, the following are eligible
for editorship of this publication for 1934-35, and°
are hereby nominated:

GEORGE L. GULLETTE,

JACK HELLINGER,

E. FRED McPHAIL,

BEN L. ROSE,

KENNETH D. WEEKS.

a
ONLY Fill *R PAGES TODAY

Because of the absence of Grier Martin, alumni
secretary, from Davidson, there is no Alumni
Page this week. Martin was called to his‘ home
#in Covington, Georgia, last week on account of
the sudden death of his father, and since there
is no’ one here familiar with the alumni secre-
tary’s work, material for an Alumni Page this
week was not assembled.

The loss of this page:together with the loss
of several advertisements this week forces this
issue to be of only four pages.

There will be no issue of “The Davidsonian”
next week since Spring Recess opens tomorrow

——~and_clases.Wednesday, April 4.

THE SPIRIT OF THE “D” CLUB

Recently the “D” Club accepted a new consti-
tution under which to operate in the future. Two
weeks ago the complete document was published

1..The Davidsonian.” Last week an editorial
agen several of the features of the new con-
stitution of Davidson’s major athletic organiza-
tion, We feel, however, that the primary ob-
jective of this new development has not yet been

fully understood and appreciated either by those.

chiefly concerned or by the student body.

We believe that all this effort has been spent
in an earnest endeavor, on the part of those who
are sinterely interested, to build up a spirit of
sportsmanship and honesty among the wearers
of the “D”.as regards their relations with each
other, the coaches, and the student body. “Hon-
esty in what respects?” is the question that nat-
urally follows.

A member of the “D” Club who has taken
upon himself the obligations inherent to the fun-
damental-nature of that body as now constituted,
has agreed to abide by the regulations as set
forth and to do his utmost to see to it that his
fellow members‘ do likewise. Now his is a se-
rious proposition and one that cannot be set
aside without seriously compromising the integ-
rity of the individual. Probably one of the most
important items is the fact that he has promised
to follow the training regulations explicitly. If
he does not do so, he is cheating his teammates
... by not shouldering his share of the responsi-
bility, and by perhaps ousting a candidate from
the team who has conscientiously trained, but
who unfortunately lacks some measure of ability
that the other possesses. Thus he enjoys privil-
eges and rewards that do not rightfully belong
to him.

In this issue of “The Davidsonian” there is

being published a complete list of all those who
are out for freshman and varsity track and var-
sity baseball. The authorities wish that the stu-
dents,that—is—all_students, whether_-members—of
the “D” Club or not, report all violations of train-
ing rules.

They desire to build what might be termed an
“esprit de corps” among Davidson College ath-
letes . . . an honest devotion to sound athletic
training and wholehearted participation in all
sports. A worthy objective, but one that can be
reached only by the complete co-operation of the
students and the athletes themselves.

—R. P.-T.

WHY NOT EXAMINE THE FACULTY?

It is interesting to note that at several col-
leges students are charging that members of
the faculty should be examined each year just
as the students themselves are.

Students at Union College in Schenectady, N.
Y., asked faculty members the following ques-
tions just “to see how many instructors are add-
ing strength to the college and how many are
doing their job right”

“Does he find his greatest interest in his stu-
dents and in intellectual pursuits?

“Does he seek to enlighten his students, rather
than to make them recite fundamentals?

“Does he try to introduce them to life and
thought, not coach them to pass examinations?

“Does he put himself forward as a dispenser
of truth, not as an ingratiating vaudeville actor?

“Does he give the student all that he has of
scholarship, wisdom and understanding, despite
their supposed immunity to such?

“Does he stimulate the mind of the student
to suggest ideas and to corelate the loose end of
information?

“Is he striving to be a personal friend of the
student, a guide and an inspiration?

“Is he enthusiastic, alive, free from all dull
pedantry and- dogma?” 5

The students went on to say that it is the
professor who makes the college, and a college
is only as good as its worst professor.

“The Daily Illini,” publication of Illinois Uni-
versity, made a similar suggestion that its in-
structors be given an examination to see where
they stand. Here is an editorial from that paper:

“What’s new in education? About this time
of the year we are forced to look over schedules
for the coming semester. We do so without
much enthusiasm for the most part, for we real-
ize there is nothing new in tie time table.

“Of course, some well-meaning adviser will
inform us that if we haven’t taken geodetics,
we should because it will give us new fields to
conquer. Or if there has been no economics
course on our program, we should take one to
make us realize better what is going on in the
world these days. All of which is true if we
apply the definition of new as anything of which
we have previously had no knowledge.

“But what is the geodetics instructor going to
give his class that he didn’t give last year? What
will the economics or psychology professor tell
his students that the ones last semester could
not have learned? What new variants or meth-
ods will be made use of that were not available
before? In other words, are we sure that our
instructors are not stagnating, are they merely
doing research in dusty bookshelves without giv-
ing a thought to the things of today which are
affecting them and which they in turn may also
be changing?

“Unfortunately, many do not feel impelled to
present new material. because they know their
course is ‘required.’ Since the student must take
it, why make any special attempts to make it
more interesting? If it was good enough last
year, why change it now?

“Perhaps a solution could be had in a system
of examinations for instructors at the end of
each school year. In all fairness to the student,
he should be certain that the man who teaches
him is also able to ‘get a passing grade.’

“At present we have no idea as to how this
would be taken care of—who would give the
quizzes or who. would do the grading. And we
do know that the suggestion is not being: made
in a facetious frame of mind, but with all se-
riousness in intent and purpose, for the protec-
tion of the student and the stimulation of the
faculty members.”

Here and There

Mr, Josiah K. Lilly, of Indianapolis, has pre-
sented 1,000 sets of the works of Stephen Foster
to college and city librarians throughout the
United States.

A university airport is being constructed at
Purdue University with funds appropriated by
the federal government.

Banquets commemorating the founding of the
University of Iowa were held in 11 states in the
Union and the District of Columbia.

NEWS DIGEST

By DOPEY McCALL
—_BIG_STRIKE_AVERTED

An automobile strike involving near-
ly two million workers and threatening
the moves made against the depression
was narrowly averted by the concil-
iatory measures of General Johnson
and President Roosevelt. The trouble
started because the automobile mag-
nates refused to recognize the Ameri-
can Federation of Labor and the work-
ers protested. All the workmen in the
plants, the dealers, the salesmen, and
all others connected with the industry
were threatened with unemployment
because the industrial leaders were
prepared to fight to the last ditch.
They felt that it was up to the Federa-
tion to recognize their right and ability
to run their own business as well as
for them to recognize the labor organ-
ization. The truce was of great im-
portance to the administration and to
the general public.

PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE
The question of Philippine independ-

ence, discussed and rediscussed ever

since the close of the war with Spain,,

was finally settled last week when it
was voted by Congress ‘to give the
islands a commonwealth government
for .ten years under the supervision
of the United States and then they
are to have complete independence and
their own republic. The bill called for
a constitutional convention to meet in
October and there draft the measures
to be used during the ten-year transi-
tion period,

NEW NAVY

Following the example of France,
England, and Japan, the Congress of
the United States has voted a -half-
billion dollars for a huge naval build-
ing program. The bill provides for
the construction of one hundred de-
stroyers and subs, a new airplane car-
rier, and one thousand new airplanes.
The program will cover seven years
and President Roosevelt is ready to
sign the bill, but the speed with which
the operations will be concluded will
depend upon the generosity of the
budget bureau.

INSULL AGAIN

Insull must be enjoying life more
now than he did when he was a Chi-
cago magnate and only had to flirt his
money to get anything he wanted. That
at least is the moral of many a novel,
e. g., that money does not mean happi-
ness but rather the contrary since the
best things in life are enjoyed more
when they are harder to get.

With very little fortune left, the old
man chartered his own boat and head-
ed for Abyssinia where lives as king
the descendant of King Solomon and
the Queen of Sheba. The once proud
millionaire is to give the “lion of Juda”
a small fortune provided by some of

his Chicago friends and there the old

man will finish his days away from
the avenging justice of the many cred-
itors and paupers he left behind him.
And that, my friends, is more fanciful
and more true than any novel.

NEW ANAESTHETIC

A new anaesthetic which physicians
believe will revolutionize operations has
been demonstrated in the Sinai Hos-
pital in Baltimore. This. new substance,
as yet unnamed, is a white powder
which will put the patient to sleep
within twenty second after it is given.
It is dissolved in water and given as
a hypodermic injection. There are no
bad after-effects and the patient can
eat a full meal both before and after
the operation;

CATASTROPHE

A blaze sweeping across Hakodate,
an important Japanese coast town of
two hundred thousand souls,’ caused
the loss of over eighty per cent of
property and about one thousand lives,
it was stated in a report from Tokyo
Wednesday. The fire began when sev-
eral chimneys were toppled over in a
gale and the wind , fanned the rising
flames to all parts “of the city. Fire-
men battled’ the fire all that night and
most of the next day without success,
but the battle finally ended when the
fire could find nothing else-to burn.
It was one of the greatest tragedies
in Japan since the late earthquake.

ROUMANIA

The recent attempted assassination
of King Carol of Roumania has re-
sultedin prison for several of the most
famous names in the Roumanian cap-
ital. A score of prominent intellectuals
have been arrested, among them Vic-
tor Gomoiu, one of its leading sur-
geons. The police have attempted to
suppress the names of the ring-leaders
while they are establishing a connec-
tion between the attempt on the life
of the king and the recent murder of
Premier Duca, who was shot down in
a railway station after a visit to Carol
at his country estate.

DEPUTATION FROM
SEMINARY SPEAKS

(Continued from page 1) _

st ead drmntiwands Moatistt tad whmd tes 7

The first fundamental need is “a
definite belief in a personal God.” Two
great tragedies today are atheism and
indifference. The most widespread of
these two is indifference:

It is a privilege to attend Davidson,
he stated, but it is also a great respon-
sibility because of the chance which
we have to be indifferent to the words
of God. Man must believe in a definite
God. He must not have an abstract be-
lief, but must believe in “a God who
is Father, Lord and Master.”

“

The second essential need is a de-
voted relationship in our hearts to
Jesus Christ. We must know Christ
as Lord, There are two great things
that will bring one to God: prayer and
the Bible.

The third fundamental is a “definite

sense of individual,
moral responsibility.” We need a so-
ciety of men and women who realize
their responsibility. Christ will, hold
each person responsible for his own
life. This, and responsibility for the
lives of others, is true Christian serv-
ice.

Christian, and

Being a Christian is not easy because
it is not easy to do these three things.
Mr. Jones closed his talk by urging us
all to believe in these things, and closed
with a prayer.

The meeting was concluded by a
hymn and the benediction by: Dr, Wal-
ter L. Lingle.

SOCIAL EVENTS
ARE FEATURED

(Continued from page 1)
beth Harper, Rocky Mount;
Monroe, High Point.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Nell Joslin,
Raleigh; Grace Richardson, New York,
N. Y.; “Tut” Gorrell, Greensboro;
Alice Alexander, Jean Montgomery,
Virginia Carey, Virginia Coby, and
Alice Cowles Barringer, Charlotte.

Beth

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Miriam
Steele, Dorothy Baker, Elizabeth
Moore, Charlotte; Louisa Rankin, Wil-
hemena Monroe, Fayetteville; Pearl
Stoops, Cleveland, Tenn.; Margaret
Abernathy, Roanoke, Va.;-Susan Wy-
cliffe, Wytheville, Va.; Leelia Rey-
nolds, Louisville, Ky.; Chloe Frierson,
Sweetbriar; Dolly Greer, Randolph-
Macon; Elizabeth Lucas, Agnes-Scott;
Sarah Stevens, Winston-Salem; Court-
ney West, Newport News; Frances
Scales, Greensboro; Jane Morgan,
Lexington, Ky.

Phi Delta Theta: Misses Frances
Haywood, Salem College; Elizabeth
Sponnenbarger, Tallahassee, Fla.; Ma-
thilda Kyser, Talladega, Ala.; Frances
Passmore, Elizabeth Houck, Atlanta,
Ga.; Lillian Price, Memphis.

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Carolyn
Hodge, Carolyn Rivers, Carolyn Ham-
mond, Charlotte; Emily Smith, Caro-
lyn Clark, Lawrenceville, Va.; Frances
Callahan, Wilson; Corinne Ellison,
Lancaster, S. C.; Miriam Cannon,
Concord; Libby Atkinson, Timmons-
ville, S. C.; Mary Louise Cargill, Co-
lumbia, S. C.; Libby Rhett, Davidson;
Jean McCaig, Wilmington; Lelia Grey,
Camilla, Ga.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Misses Georgia
Fanny Whitlock and Frances Up-
church, Greensboro; Ellen White, Con-
cord; Jean Ware, Kings Mountain;
Mary Frances Erlick, Charlotte; Mar-
garet Peeples, Oxford; Doris Paine,
New Orleans, La.; Margaret McLeod,
Darlington, S. C.; Pearl Gillette, Wil-
mington; Nancy Wall, Boydton, Va.;
Dorothy Tarleton, Charlottesville, Va.;

“Bunny” Maples, Camilla, Ga.; Mar-
garet Kline, Salisbury; Frances Jor-
dan, Meridian, Miss., and Gloria Bee,
Podunk, N. M.

SPRUNT ELECTED
“Y” PRESIDENT

(Continued from page: 1)
chosen later, At present, this board
includes five members of the faculty,
the “Y” president and secretary, three
members of the Senior class’ and two
members of the Junior class.

Si

vores

On Other Campuses

__,.--A_law_has_been passed _in Cali-
fornia which prohibits high school stu-
dents from becoming members of any
secret organization other than the
same type as the Hi-Y and DeMolay.

. Thus some college frats in that
state are liable to prosecution. How-
ever, the fraternities contend that
pledging a man does not make him a
member of the organization, so high
school students continue to wear pledge
buttons secretly.

as ‘

Forty per cent of the entire student
body at the University of Georgia are
either earning or borrowing money to
pay their way through college. One
hundred and seventeen of the 524 earn-
ing their money are employed under
the Federal Emergency Relief Admin-
istration.

«

At Randolph-Macon the non-frater-
nity men made higher averages than
the fraternity men during the first

term. The student body average was
78.

Students at Maryland are attempt-
ing to abolish final examinations. Their
latest attempt consisted in having six-
teen fraternity and sorority leaders ex-
press their dissatisfaction to one lone
leader who upheld the present system.

A college professor is a guy who
leads a hard life in order to keep a
soft job.

We've just found out what happens
to people who are run down, They
wind up in the hospital—(Florida Al-
ligator.)

. A certain co-ed at the junior
dance at the University of Minnesota
was persuaded to take off her shoes in
order to reduce her height advantage
over her escort so that a photograph
of the leaders would present a more
uniform appearance.

A recent survey of an eastern uni-
versity showed that 60 per cent of its
students sleep through three hours of
classes a week.

Robert E. Lee has only recently been
given credit he justly deserved for his
educational philosophy, which was far
in advance of his times——Dr. George

H. Denny, President, University of
Alabama,
Workmen making a new football

field’ just outside Alexandria, Egypt,
uncovered beautifully painted walls,
probably belonging to the tomb of. a
Graeco-Roman. The spot is the site

of an ancient Roman camp.—(Ring-
Tum Phi.)

EXHIBIT OF GERMAN
ART IS GIVEN HERE

(Continued from page 1)
particularly interesting, since this ma-
terial is not often employed. Nueckel,
quite well known in America as an il-
lustrator, has published a novel called
Destiny, in which the entire story is”
portrayed by means of pictures. Three
of his original lead cuts are in the
collection being shown here. They all
show a great deal of animation and
imagination, as well as much technical
skill.

Some of the. pictures which create
most discussion are those done in the
abstract and cubistic styles. These are
two of the types of art developed dur-
ing 1905 and 1925. They are the artist’s
effort to discover new ways of ex-
pressing himself. This type of art rep-
resents an experiment to interpret ideas
in. geometrical pattern form or to
correlate art with music.

As a background—for~students of
German art, a set of reproductions of
the old masters of the fifteenth and
sixteenth centuries is being shown.
These represent the engravings, wood-
cuts, and water colors of Duerer,
Cranach, Holbein, and their contem-
poraries. One of the favorites is a
study for a painting of Saint Jerome
representing the head of an old man.
It is done with extreme care and at-
tention to realistic detail. One of the
major reasons for the success of these
old masters was the’ assiduity with
which they studied the details of their

“ccc |

CALLING CARDS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

subjects, taking nature for their guide,

PROGRAMS

See BILL JOHNSON
@ 203 Watts

AIAN

e Garland Court -

EST

* Standard Printing Company _

ccc

CHARLOTTE, N.C. @

