THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 7, 1934

CLUB INITIATES
NEW MEMBER

Two Professors:And Eight Stu-
dents Receive Bids From
Le Cercle Francais

The purpose of the last meeting of Le
Cercle Francais was to initiate new mem-
bers into its order. The following men
accepted the bids, and were duly in-
itiated :

Professor Sylvain S. Minault,—Pro-
fessor Ernest A. Beaty, Val Cassells,
James C. Cothran, J. Woodrow Has-
sell, Carlyle Lewis, John S. McMullen,
William F, Peirce, James H. Simpson,
and Thomas F. Wood, Jr.

The first thing on the program for the
night of initiation was a play, “Ceux qui
Passent,” which was given by four of
the newly initiated members, J. W. Has-
sell, C. B. Lewis, J. H. Simpson, and V.
Cassell. This play involved the adven-
tures of a thief in a doctor's office, and
was excellently portrayed by these in-
experienced but ‘talented actors.

Next on the program came the busi-
ness of the circle which was followed
by three talks. The first of these was
a very interesting description of life
in Canada by Jim Cothran, Following
this, McMullen gave a recitation on “A
Chicken and its Biddies.” The last, of
these three talks was a very interesting
and humorous talk by Professor Minault
on “Life in French Schools.”

After the talks French games were
played and French songs were sung. Re-
freshments were then served, and soon
the very successful meeting adjourned.

Davidson Prepares

For Carolina Game
(Continued from Page 4)

Don, who added to his record of glory
last week by making a 50-yard sprint
through Tech's line for a touchdown, has
attracted much attention .»among sports
enthusiasts, and his ability as a ball
carrier and a passer, has placed him
among the ranks of the great.

Barclay has. been termed “the one-man
team”, since He, although a guard, calls
plays, runs their interference, backs up the
line, ‘makes touchdowns, and does nu-
merous other things in expert style. Last
season, due to his uncanny ability to
diagnose plays and to block punts and
intercept passes, he scored more touch-
downs than any back on the squad, save
one.

He has received much praise from
coaches and officials during his three
years on the varsity. Some of the com-
ments are as follows:

Coach, Bob Neyland of Tennessee:
“One of the best men ever to play against
Tennessee. I have seen few who can equal
him as a charging guard. He is in every
play.”

Coach Chet Wynne of Kentucky:
“That boy Barclay is All-American so
far as I’m concerned. He certainly
played a brilliant game against us.”

“All-Southern,, Atl-Anything, All-
Anything,” said Coach Bill Alexander
who is a member of the All-American
board, after seeing Barclay stop three-
fourths of Georgia Tech’s rushes single-
handed.

“The most outstanding player on the
field,” said Coach Wallace Wade of Rose
Bowl fame.

*

WE HAVE THE NEW

DIMENSION

“BODY -SIZED” SHIRT

Three boady-sizes with
each collar-size, giving a
custom-iailored body-fit.

Riegel inaugurates a tine of
brand new, faultlessly cailored
broadcloth shirts, BODY-SIZED
to give the smart at of an ex-
pensive, custom-made shir«.

Come in and try one. White
or blue broadcloth. Sanforized.
Price, $1.95. Packed individ-
ually — ready to wear — without
pins or cardboards.

Men’s Shop—Street Floor

Writer Reviews History
Of ’Cat Football Games

(Continued from Page 4)

be formed on the right of the line, the
left guard’and tackle would put out and
with the backs would form a wedge on
the right end. The fullback stood be-
hind the right end and received the ball
from the quarterback. Once the ball was
received the wedge plowed its way
through. This play was ruled out be-
cause of the danger involved.

Looking at a picture of the team in

Marshal Ney Originator
Of Davidson Seal

(Continued from Page 6)

his coffin that night. He must surely
have done this for we next hear of him
being helped aboard the ship “City of
Philadelphia” by two friends. Other
French refugees recognized him on
board, but he always insisted that ‘“Mar-
shal Ney had been executed two weeks
before in Paris.”

The ship finally reached Charleston,
S. C., and it was there that Marshal Ney,

Our Contemporaries

(Continued from Page 2)

hardy mascot for years has passed on
to ‘the animal hunting ground, and his
two heirs, softened by a life of ease,
are not robust enough to carry their
father’s mantle. So a tough youngster
from the western plains has been sum-
moned to become King Bill V ... Stu-
dents at the University of: Ohio’ who
wear their R. O. T. C. uniforms at the
football games and who sit in a special
section for cheering will be admitted to
the game free of charge . . , Co-eds at

Six Seniors Tapped By
Omicron Delta Kappa

(Continued from Page 1)

orable mention for All-American. Mack-
orell has also made a letter for the past
two years”in baseball. He is on the
Dean’s list.

William L. Northern, a member of Phi
Gamma Delta social fraternity, is man-
ager of the varsity football team this
year. He has been actively connected
with the musical organizations on the

The initiation of the new men will take
place in the near future although a defi-
nite date has not been set. It 4s reported
that one or two alumni who have been
given honorary memberships will be in-
itiated at this time.

The active student members in the
Delta Circle include G. H. Browr,, presi-
dent; Dewey Hutchins, Fred McPhail,
A. J. Potter, R. H. Smith, W. P. Sprunt,
Jr., ‘vice-president, and K. D. Weeks.
Professor H. E. Fulcher is secretary and
treasurer of the Circle.

the 1898 annual we notice the peculiar|now “Peter Stuart” Ney, began his Pea Op RPTe teary lel it : campus and is this year a Lieutenant in
lineup. The linemen, instead of crouch-| American exile. He is known to have ae weak cia abi i the R. O. T. C. Band. Mrs. W. N. Mebane’ entertained her
age ages aay hee ate he Sat SORA GEOR CEE bes marks on a freshman test’ were made by Percy Mims Rogers, a member and Sunday School Class Friday night at a
over with arms swinging at the knees. teachin De ariet aay ka ‘ men. . . College is a DIPLOMA MILL | President di ae Guna Delta social | supper and movie party.
mn ; *|teaching at Unity, in Mecklenburg} «ihe Carnegie Foundati Dr, | fraternity, is president of the Pan Hel-
The ferocious looks on the faces of the|county, only eight miles from David- La Cobalt HS sear ia (el =f se °
; “ : ” x Detley W. Bronk, professor of biophy-|lenic Council composed of representa
linemen are “something orful”. We also| son when he was called upon to design a = LOBE Me acl act FOE * t+
ane s eh ees : sics at the University of Pennsylvania, | tives of all the social fraternities on the
notice that the center holds the ball) the seal of Davidson College. Ay hota tetris ee s He is al b f th
With the endssto-thealinemen) a ata eee thinks that much of the criticism directed | Campus. He 1s also a member o% the BUFF SHOE SHOP
Dr. MacConnell’ tells an’ interesting|, W hile teaching in the vicinity of Dav-} toward scholars in public life is justifi- | Forensic Council and several other hon-
atory in’ explaining this, ‘The teahi Gued idson, Ney made frequent trips to the | able . . . Sherwood Anderson addressed |otary fraternities.
the regular pass from centerin the North Davidson library. On one occasion, he} V, Pp. I. students on October 26th ...| George Wingfield is vice-president of Modern Shoe
ohvedtbusaetiita (Hid Had ilo WRLC jetaaqa (dipole! EL BY French history with a pic-/ One hundred new college presidents as-|the Athletic Association and is playing Rebuilder
center tolled the ball to the quartkebacle, iL ARENA Te see poder sumed office with the opening of~this|his third year of varsity Lora ae
This worked fine on the smooth practice ears Aeolian ak ye fall's term . . . With the opening of its|year he made letters in baseball anc 7 ,
field but the Charlotte field, on eee the | Profile of the man and signed it “Ney. | att term last month, Columbia Univer-| track. He is a member of the “D” Club When It Is Done By
game was played, was covered with By ies : a Deere a ooh ie sity started its 181st academic year . . . and his record as an athlete at David- Buff That Is
stubby broomstraw and the results were vay Kepe with: pridetin a vault sf the Hulda Stettler, the canning champion | 5°" College has been } false untesual Enough
nearly disastrous. That was the last} ¢°": ates ._,,{0f the: United States, has enrolled at the | O"° He is affiliated with the Kappa Sig- :
time the ball was rolled back. Phirty-one eaLe after the “execution University of Wisconsin... At N. C.|™ fraternity.
The early teams were allowed 3 downs cab aeriy rae ot eee Peter Stuart State College a whistle is blown at eight- er J
to make 5 yards. Tactics employed were | *\°Y elas Here SH oD coat pee ot as thirty o'clock to denote the study hour
always mass tactics and there was little true identity, he raised himself on his Stet VMI detent d
broken-field running, although Profes- elbows and with an unforgettable expres- 6 ‘ ‘ th ’ i : Lae denice ie
sor F, L, Blythe, 1904, tells of a player, sion on his face said: “I AM MAR- rae a psa ota lay i“ VAS
Stanley Wyman, who had the practice SHAL NEY OF FRANCE.” pa sCAtED, Re HOSDICS une oen Ue
of hurdling the safety man as he wended| Ney was buried in the Third Creek |* °° W histling has been banried at the
his way toward a touchdown. The Presbyterian church yard in “Rowan University of Alabama because too many
furdiineahasvaltonpeenirolednout County, N. C. This inscription may still students whistle off key ... In a psychol- :
In 1899 a petition was sent to the|be seen at the grave: “In memory of | °8Y test at Los Angeles Junior College een YOU'LL BE
faculty and board of trustees which was | Peter Stuart Ney, a native of France and|an experiment. to determine the pet HAPPY IN
granted, allowing the students to enter | solttier of the French Revolution under | “peeves” was given. Men deemed baby | ¢ ‘
more thoroughly in the practice of in-| Napoleon Bonaparte, who departed this|talk the worst, while women most de- HANES!
tercollegiate football. Dr. Martin, later | life November 15th, 1846, aged 77 years.” | tested dates who kept them waiting .. . Shorts... Shirts
President of the institution, was made Union Suits
faculty adviser to the athletic com-
mittee. Dr. Henry Louis Smith, another
future president of the college, Dr. W.
R. Grey, Dr. C. R. Harding, Dr. J. L. LITTLE PEP
Douglas and Prof. T, P. Harrison were
among the faculty members prominent in Consistently good meals with efficient service. All
the athletics movement. of our food is of the highest quality and prepared
(To Be Continued) to suit your taste. :
Baits Ecc easier P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
Rev. Elzie Myers of the Davidson
Methodist Church has returned from LITTLE PEP WINSTON-SALEM
the M. E. Conference in Greensboro. He CHARLOTTE DAVIDSON
has been reassigned as pastors of this
church, é 4

Gi

re OT,

—and the boys smoked them

—and the girls raked in the nickels and the dimes

- —and they sang “a hot time in_the old town”

