*THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1934

The Davidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated | Golleginte =
a EMD sree

—= 1933

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Col-
legiate year.

—=
Entered as second-class matter at the Post eiaral at eadeLos,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3:

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managing Editors
by 4:00 o'clock p. m., onday. Letters to the E litor are
welcome, but al COA SHICatIOnE for p
must be signed.

ODI CASALI......... Editor
W. T. JOHNSON. B M
EDITORIAL STAFF .
G. L. GULLETTE anaging Editor
E, F. McPHAIL............... Editor
B. L. ROSE--..... Editor
K. D. WEEKS. anaging Editor
acre HELLINGER. Alumni Editor
WLING_ PRATT-THOMAS Edit ial Writer
5 A. HUNTE h Editor
. B, BAILEY eature Editor
& K. EATON... Feature Editor
» S. McCALL odesusaden seae Feature Editor
L. W. CLARDY-. -A ditor
A. F ae es A Editor
W._M. THOM -A iate Editor
JACK WILLIAMS, Nig. A te Editor
; BUSINESS het
G. L, GREEN........... as t B
WwW. ae Petals ares A t Business Manager
j: ALC WADSWORTH ooo TAR SEaRE B

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1934

How much casier our work would be if we put
forth as much effort trying to improve the quality
of it as most of us do trying to find excuses for
not properly attending to it.

° —George W. Ballinger.

THE VALUE OF A UNIVERSITY
EDUCATION

In the January issue of “School Life,” month-
ly publication of the United States Department
of the Interior, Office of Education, there ap-
pears under the title, “Advice to Harvard Fresh-
men,” the following editorial, written by Dr.
James B. Conant, president of Harvard Univer-
sity:

In my opinion, one of the greatest values of
a university education is that for four years one
is living in a free and vigorous intellectual at-
mosphere. A spirit of tolerance based on reason
is in the air. Dogmas ‘are courageously exam-
ined, compared, ‘attacked, defended. Of course,
it would be quite erroneous to believe that the
members of a university are free from preju-
dices. Such a condition would be impossible, per-
haps even undesirable. But if the academic com-
munity is in a healthy condition, there should be
among its permanent members intelligent men
with assorted prejudices and with a. tolerant
point of view. Thus the student may have a
wide choice of opinions. May I suggest that
your college career is an excellent time to culti-
vate a tolerant, skeptical spirit? No one need
worry lest he have too few prejudices,

Students are often worried about the relation
of their field of concentration to their future
vocation. Such worries are based on an er-
roneous idea of a university education. Except
for a few special requirements, for some of the
professions, it is of relatively little importance
which one of our fields of concentration you de-
cide upon, provided you choose a subject which
you may thoroughly enjoy. For many of you
who will go out into the world of affairs, the
last three years of your college, life may be the
only time when you will have the privilege of
indulging in a whole-hearted interest in some
purely intellectuél activity. If you are fortunate
enough to have the experience of a real intel-
lectual passion, you will, to my mind, have
gained what is best in a university education.

In the course of your work you will be led to
study with men who are devoting their lives to
some branch of learning. They are the intellec-
tual descendants of the long line of earnest schol-
ars who have accumulated and preserved what
are the most priceless possessions of our race
today. If you understand their enthusiasms, you
will have gained an insight into the forces which
have civilized the world.

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE

The Davidson College Y. M. C. A. is to be
highly commended for its recent activity in the
field of vocational guidance. The recent voca-
tional inventory showed that one hundred and
ninety-one men had not yet chosen their voca-
tion. No doubt many |of, those men who stated
that they had chosen their vocation did so with
little assurance that they would acu enter
that work.

On inquiry, one will find that so fates men
think they will enter this or that field of endea-

mote specialized, Jobs are very scarce and a
to find it rather discouraging when he starts
seeking a job; unless he is a man of unusual abil-
ity and merit. Employers in specialized fields
are looking for men who are thoroughly trained
‘for the job they offer.

The old idea that an individual has a certain
niche to fill in the great field of human activity
is not necessarily true, for there are many who
can do one phase of work equally as well as an-
other. But there are a great many of us who
are “cut out” for a certain vocation and could
excel in that work. Very often there are those
who find out too late that they have missed their
calling, and deeply regret the opportunities that
they have passed up. Certainly this should bear
out the importance of vocational guidance for
us who are here in college. It should help to
prevent such mistakes and the disappointments
and-regrets that follow. If vocational guidance
plays such an important part in our lives, then
isn’t it plausible that at should receive an impor-
tant place in our college curriculum?

After all, the primary function of education is
to give the individual a fighting chance in so-
ciety. It is up to us to choose that field of activ-
ity in which we cay put up the best fight. Too
many of us are prone to enter college merely
for the sake of “going to college,” forgetting
that we are actually preparing ourselves for the
part that we are to play in society. e

In various vocations, such as medicine, eriti-
neering, and law, there are required subjects
which one must study. The sooner we can make
up..our minds, the more time we will have for
preparation.. Vast amounts of valuable time and
money are wasted by merely-sitting on the fence
of indecision, from whence we scan the fields of
human activity and wonder which way to go.

The college student who has definitely selected
his vocation has a purpose for being in college
and a goal toward which he must strive. He
finds a special interest in his studies, and .experi-
ences no restlessness of indecision and no regrets.

The reading of books and the attending of lec-
tures, in which various vocations are discussed,
will be of great help to those who are experi-
encing difficulty in choosing their vocation. We
should avail ourselves of this aid which will be
rendered by the Y. M. C. A. in the near future.

—G. L. Green.

KEEP OUR CAMPUS CLEAN

Davidson is, and should be, commended on itd
beautiful campus and walks. It is therefore the
duty of every student to see that the campus
stays in excellent shape. It should not only be
a duty, however, but the student should take
pride in it and do it of his own accord.

Paper strewn all over the walks and edges of
the grass does not in any way add to the beauty
of our campus, and ‘yet students do not seem
to care where they throw their waste paper and
envelopes. A sttident will go to the post office
and, if he gets a letter, nine times out of ten will
open it on his way to the dormitory“or to Cham-
bers Building and carelessly throw the bits of
the envelope or the envelope itself on the cam-
pus as he walks along. It is, no doubt, merely

a thoughtless and a careless act on the part of

the individual student, but he should bear in
mind that when over six hundred individuals do
the same thing that it mars terribly the beauty
of the campus.

More trash cans might be suggested as a rem-
edy for this, but if the student will think long
enough to put the paper in a can close at hand,
why can’t he think long enough to hold it until
he comes to one of such cans already oh the
campus, and spare the college the extra expense?
Then, too, trash cans are not helpful to the
beauty of the campus.

The college pays men to prune the trees, cut
the grass, rake the leaves, and even pick up
some of the paper. The rest of the burden at
least, therefore, should be assumed by the. indi-
vidual student in aiding to keep the campus beau-

tiful through his own pride and thoughtfulness>}-

Do your bit to’ keep the campus neat.
—B. L. R.

Here and There

Prof. Rollin M. Perkins, of the University of
Iowa, has been appointed chairman of the com-
mittee on criminal law and criminal procedure
of the Association of American Law Schools.

Kampus Kadets is the name of a co-ed society
at the Lewiston, Idaho, State Normal School,

A milk truck ran away from its driver on the
campus of the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul,
and was captured only after its wheels failed to
keep it going on a long stretch of ice.

vor, Such_indecision often_results_in-disappoint
ment, unhappiness, restlessness, and loss of time
and money.
The fietdls,of endeavor of this modern era that
we are living in today are becoming more and

The end of capitalistic economics and govern-
ment was predicted by George E. Frazer, Chi-
cago financier, in an address at the University
of Towa.

~NEWS DIGEST

REVOLT IN AUSTRIA

The roar of machine guns and heavy
artillery thundered in the streets of
Vienna and other Austrian cities as
the government sought to tear down
the barricades erected by Socialist
troops. Many were killed and wound-
ed in the worst European civil strife
since the World War. Heavy artillery
and field batteries were used to de-_
stroy the more firmly entrenched
troops. Chancellor Dollfuss, fighting
for the life of his party, issued an edict
declaring the Socialits party dissolved.

FRENCH STRIKE ENDS

The nation-wide strike which fol-
lowed the riots in the French capital
ended quietly when most of the strik-
ers returned to work. The Socialist
leaders applauded the restraint with
all men returned to their jobs with
the exception of some disgruntled
Communists who were most active in
leading the recent revolt against the
government. The country is quiet
again after a week of fighting around
the capital where many were killed,
and wounded.

PRISON UPRISING

One of the’ bloodiest prison breaks
in the history of the country was
quelled when guards at the Washing-
ton State Prison cut a wide swath
through forty escaping men with ma-
chine guns, Six men were slain and
twelve wounded in this’ attempted es-
cape. The forty men, armed with
butcher knives and improvised wea-
pons, attempted to rush the guards as
they were being led back to their cells,
but the attack was frustrated.

ARMY AIR MAIL

The move of President Roosevelt to
turn the handling of all air mail over
to army fliers will go into effect Tues-
day. This move; causing a great deal
of criticism over the country, will ‘be
the first attempt made by the Presi-
dent to operate something in which a
great many of the people have dis-
agreed with him. Anyway the work
goes on and even now the army fliers
are carrying the mails. ‘

REDS RISE

Not many years ago the Communist
party was a group “Which was some-
times heard about but never did it seem
so cJose to us as it does today. The
Reds are astir in Germany and in Italy.
They are even now fighting for pos-
session of Austria, And the latest event
is an uprising in our own New York

‘where three thousand Reds stormed

a Socialist meeting and started a free-
for-all fight which was not broken up
until hundreds of extra policemen were
called to the scene. They are growing
stronger and stronger; their organiza-
tion is perfecting its implements of
war; they are undermining the gov-
ernments of the world. What 4re we
going to do about it?

A WARNING

The three great European powers,
England, France and Italy, have served
a warning,on Germany that the inde-
pendence of Austria must be observed
and that no encroachments on the part
of Germany will be tolerated. As a
result the tense situation in Austria
has lapsed again into a semi-dormant
condition, each waiting for the other
to make the first move.

BELGIUM MOURNS

Belgium mourns the death of its
beloved King Albert. His broken body
which fell from a towering crag while
he was mountain-climbing, lies in state
at Brussels and the world grieves the
death of this king so great in war and
so kind to his subjects. His was. a
grand reign and he was well beloved
by his subjects. His son, Prince Leo-
pold, will ascend the throne at once
as soon as his father is buried. The
new Belgium king, Leopold 3rd, is also
well liked by his subjects, but if he
has the neighborliness, the kindness,
and the bravery of his father he will
be an exceptional ruler.

MacCRACKEN JAILED
MacCracken and Britten, who re-
fused to attend the Senate investigat-
ing committee on the question of air
mail contracts to private companies,
were put in jail for ten days for con-
tempt of court. It is the ;first time in
history when a man deliberately re-
fused to meet with the Senate and
the following drastic step shows what

the Senate thinks of the idea.

NAPOLEON ON UNEMPLOYMENT

From Arthur Brisbane: ~

Napoleon was perpetually vigilant-on
this point. He would send for his
ministers and say that there was not
enough work. ... He would then order
foodstuffs and furniture, and he would
advance money to the principal manu-
facturers,
him in-this- way-more-than two-mil--|
lion pounds sterling. ;

One of these crises cost |:

Washington Professor
Starts Language Move

In the opinion of Dr. DeWitt Crois-
sant, of George Washington Univer-
sity, words in the English language
should be spelled simply and just as
they sound. Dr. Croissant says that
spelling should..be phonetic, so that
people can tell from the way a word
is written how it sounds,

The doctor thinks there are too
many letters to most words, too many
words with the same meaning, and
often too many meanings for the same
word.

DR. C. E. MACARTNEY
CLOSES 4-DAY LECTURE

(Continued from page 1)
and purposes of the Otts Foundation.
Dr. Lingle announced that the general
theme of the lecture this year was
“Christian Faith and the Spirit of the

Age.” Dr. Macartney’s subject for the
first lecture was “The Christian
Book.”

Dr. Macartney referred humorously
to an early text book written by Gen.
D. H. Hill, a member of the Davidson
faculty during the War Between the
States, in-which, he said, all of the
problems were illustrated by Confed-
erate heroes and fleeing Yankees.
However, he said that though he was
a Northerner, he welcomed the oppor-
tunity to speak to the student body
of this Southern school, and to visit
here in the Carolinas.

Referring to the students as those

.who in the future would occupy the

seats of the mighty, Dr. Macartney
emphasized the importance of a strong
Christian foundation upon which to
build our lives. This period of college
life, too, he explained, was the very
time and place to lay that foundation
or to strengthen it if we already have
it.

First the speaker outlined briefly the
history of the Bible, mentioning the
famous._Codex—Sinaiticus, which re-

cently figured in the news as having’

been purchased by the British govern-
ment from Russia for $500,000. This
he said is evidence of the power of
Christianity even in our present-day
governments.

The Book, which is the foundation
of our religion, is God’s revelation to
His people, and through it He guides
our lives. The only alternative which
is left for us if we refuse the Bible
is human wisdom, which has been tried
an@®fdund wanting.

There is a definite need to recognize
the divinity of the Scriptures, and
there are many proofs of, its divine
inspiration from the first word of Gen-
esis to the end of Revelation.

No book has such a singular history
as our Bible. It is the life story of a
great and chosen people whose char-
acteristics ate’so well portrayed, and
whose history is so accurately given,
which has been proved by careful in-
vestigation,

In spite of the tremendous range of
time which the Book covers, and the
large number of authors who contrib-
uted to it, it has a singular unity which
plainly shows a power guiding and di-
recting its progress as it came into
existence through the ages. Every
book contributes its part to the grand
theme of the Bible which is, accord-
ing to Dr. Macartney, the redemption
of man’s soul,

In proving its divine inspiration, we
may think of it under seven heads as
divided by the speaker: contents, pre-
cepts, doctrine, omissions, prophecies,
confirmation, and influence.

The subject matter or contents of
the Bible is plainly divine. Its pre-
cepts are well summed up in the ser-
mon on the mount. As to doctrine,
every church seems to find a strong
basis for its own doctrine but there
are certain fundamental doctrines
everywhere evident, such as, the doc-
trine of the trinity and the often-de-
bated doctrines of predestination and
free will. Dr. Macartney called atten-
tion to the fact that these two appar-
ently conflicting doctrines were often
discussed together in the Bible so that
they harmonized.

1 ALU Hl li AUT {Nt wut Hl

STATIONERY

CALLING CARDS

On Other Campuses

CLEMSON

Soccer is a new intramural sport at
Clemson this year. Much interest to-
ward the game has been created
among the students. In an effort to
create still more interest and to get
as large a number as possible to par-
ticipate in this outdoor sport, two
games with Furman University (intra-
mural team also) have been scheduled,
The games are played in four quarters
of fifteen minutes each. There is one
minute rest between the quarters, and
a maximum of ten minutes between
the halves. In case of a tie, two extra
periods of five minutes are played, the
resulting score to stand as official.

N. C. STATE
Part-time jobs for 148 State College
students will soon be available under
a Federal Emergency Relief Adminis-
tration ruling which provided for stu-
dents in non-profit making institutions
which desired aid for its students.

TEMPLE

Forty of the most brilliant high
school and prep school students en-
tering Temple University from Phila-
delphia and vicinity this year have
been put in an experimental group, re-
lieved of most of the regular college
student routine. No definite course of
study will have to be taken by the
group; no credits earned; no marks
given; class attendance will not be
compulsory. The first two years will
be devoted to study of world problems
and how to solve them. The last two
years will be devoted to specialization
in the field of the student’s choice.

PURDUE °
What next?? The co-eds at Purdue
are now taking a course in “Charm”
. Those who pass the course suc-
cessfully will know how to hold a
cigarette gracefully and also how to
sip cocktails without spilling a drop.

EMORY
And now this. Recently, when the
Emory Aces played for the Roosevelt
Ball at a neighboring town, the ball-
room was sorta cold. A mere seven
degrees below zero. It was so cold
that moisture froze in the wind instru-
ments and stuck the keys, necessitat-
ing regular periods for thawing in a
warmer place. . . Page Blanche Cal-

loway. :

The omissions in the Bible are no-
table.. For instance Moses, the great
philosopher and the man who probably
understood God better flan the author
of any of the other books of the Bible,
fails to mention the future life or any-
thing connected with it. It is to be
remembered that Christ Himself makes
only a few referencés to the same
question. Only divine influence could
have caused Moses to omit the sub-
ject. Every one of the gospel writers
leaves out accounts of the early life
of Jesus, though they all probably
knew>something of it. No. mention is
made of\ world events of that day,
though they were many and important,
and the writers were sure to have
known them, living in a country so
centrally located as Palestine.

One of the strongest proofs of the
divine inspiration is the way the
prophecies given in the Bible have
come true. Without exception all of
the Old “Testament prophecies were
fulfilled exactly as given.

We do not have to say the Bible is
true just because it is the Bible. Sci-
ence is time after time proving it to
be accurate in its descriptions of times,
Peoples, places, and events. The re-”
cent reading of ancient inscriptions
bears out the Bible in many ways.

The influence of the Bible is untold.
Compare countries which have the
strong influence of Christianity’ with
those which have not, as for instance
the United States with Mexico. Com-
pare the United States at its lowest
moral ebb to Mexico at its best. Think
of the advantages which Christianity
brings, such as schools, hospitals, and
charitable institutions. Its influence is

(Continued on page 3)

|
AANA Ait ee

PROGRAMS

FRATERNITY PAPERS

Printing of all Types at Reasonable Rates

See BILL JOHNSON
@ 203 Watts

Standard Printing Company

@ Garland Court -

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

