THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 2, 1934

The Bavidsonian

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

Member of

Associated Colleginte Press

—= 1933 i) 1934 =

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION
legiate year.

RATES: Ten cents per copy;

$2.00 the Col-

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,

North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of Managin
by 4:00 o’clock fe m.,
a

Editors
Monday. Letters to Hike Editor are
lor

i but
must be signed.

KENNETH D. WEEKS.-
J. A. C. WADSWORTH...

sccarsesscasabultor
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

-Managing Editor
.--Sports Editor
---Sports Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
se Associate Editor

i. BUSINESS STAFF

COLEMAN BRANTO. Assistant Business Manager
A. G BRENIZER-. -Assistant Business Manager
B. GOS Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager

TOM ROS: Assistant Busi anager
iF S. J Assistant Business Manager
se bie ORRO Wasscccccsscsccadsssauees «. Assistant s Manager

WEDNESDAY, MAY 2, 1934

That book is good in vain which the ee

throws away. —Samuel Johnson.

A TWO-FOLD

OBLIGATION

The period of student body voting for the
selection of campus leaders which began about
a month ago has nearly come to an end. By
a majority vote of the students we have ex-
pressed our approval of the leaders which have
been elected—our student body president, our
class presidents, our Y, M.C. A. president, our
athletic leaders, our publications editors and
their staffs. Leaders in every phase of student
life have been chosen for the coming school

—year— (

Upon the completion of the election and in-
stallation of these officers there immediately
arose a two-fold obligation: that on part of
the leaders, and that on part of the members
of the student body. The first is the task of
guidance, and the second is the task of sup-
port.

These two tasks can be accomplished only
by co-operation on the part of the leaders and
the supporters, however trite the expression
may be.

The first task, that of guidance, applies to
those who have been placed in these honored
and responsible positions. May they accept
not only the honor and become a mere figure-
head cherishing their position for the glory of
it and for the sake of having their names and
pictures published, but may they also accept
and strive to perform” the ‘responsibilities
which have been entrusted to them! The hon-
or and glory is not to be reaped until the task
has been accomplished,

The second task, that of supporting, lies
with us. We have given those of our choice
the task of leading. and guiding us; naw it is
up to us to follow. We must not take a back
seat and be indifferent toward them. Each
one of us must do our part, no matter how
small it is, for after all, it is the combined
efforts of the student body that go to make a

——~better-Davittson>Eet-us~do~our~part-of-the
“Y” work, let us uphold the Student Council,
and let us abide by our Honor System.

Davidson is now one of the few outstand-
ing colleges in North Carolina that still has
the Honor System. Other schools have aband-
oned this sort of system, and the trend all over
the country is toward abolishment due to lack
of support from the students.

Let us not weaken with the trend, but let
us tighten our hold by giving one hundred per
cent support and strict adherence to the prin-
ciples of our organizations. Only in this way
can we keep Davidson singled out as a shining
example among colleges.

Especially is it expedient at this time’ that
we begin with the new regime that we have
chosen by giving them our loyal support, for
“from a bad-beginning-cometh a bad ending.”

A PLEA FOR
RECOGNITION
Our curriculum here at Davidson is one that
is well-rounded, well-balanced, and thorough
for a school of its kind and size. The various
departments are quite efficient and capable of
' taking care of the needs and desires of the stu-
.,dent that comes to Davidson College. | This
editorial is not intended in any way to criti-
cize the present academic set-up, but it has for

its purpose to show how an additional depart- °

ment or even-course of a particular nature

|

would be of great benefit and practical value
to a number of students here at Davidson, al-
though the lack of it in the past has not, per-
haps, brought detrimental results. ‘S :

The need of which this piece speaks is a
course in journalism. We earnestly feel that
the types and quality of the publications which
we have here in'the college year book “Quips
and Cranks,” the humor magazine “The Yowl,”
and the “Davidsonian” justly deserve recogni-
tion in the way of some degree of-imstruction
in journalism, especially in the case of the
latter. :

Any aid along this line would be more than
we could boast of at the present. Each year
when new men report for work on the “David-
sonian,” they are practically all inexperienced
in newspaper work, Any journalistic instruc-
tion they receive is given them by the editor
and managing editors at meetings which the
editor calls for that purpose when he finds
time. One can readily see that this amount
of instruction is uncertain and inadequate.

It is true that our publications have held
high ratings and have been good ones in the
past, but this credit is due solely to those ed-
itors and their staffs which have gone before.
Through their own efforts alone have these

publications. reached their present rank and

not from any outside aid.

There are more reasons than one that a
course in journalism would be of benefit here.
Students interested in this work could receive
training and at the same time apply it. This
would be of great practical value and would
certainly “help overcome obstacles which hin-
der our work at present. Then there are stu-
dents here who intend to do graduate work in
journalism. Instruction in thie now would aid
them greatly in their future work. Lastly;
there is hardly a school anywhere of David-
son’s rank that does not provide for some type
of journalistic instruction, and most of them
give credits to students taking these courses.

We sincerely hope that some consideration
will be taken of these facts and some provi-
sion made in the near future.

“WHAT FOOLS THESE
MORTALS BE”

At the head of a comic sheet in one of the
leading newspapers, we find these words:
“What fools these mortals be.” If we see what
fools we are in the comic sheet only, there
would be no purpose in this editorial, But
every day on the front page we see what fools
we are, and the trouble is that this front page
“comic” is true! :

We read headlines similar to these: Pre-
paredness for peace, or we must have a large
navy and a large army to keep peace. Yes,

-and starve the taxpayers.

In the Hearst’s newspapers there are edito-
rials’ almost daily calling for preparedness—
more ships and more money, more airplanes,
and more men for the army.

There is one thing about this movement to
build in order to keep peace that is not un-
derstood, and that is: Why do we need a huge
fleet of ships parading our coasts when only a
few would be sufficient to help commercial
ships in time of distress? Why do we need
troops drilling day in and day out, learning
how’ to kill people, when we have enough po-
licemen to keep order? Well, you say we need
the large navy and army for national defense.
Then it is suggested that all nations disarm.
You say it can’t be done; that we have tried
and failed. But it can be done!,

In the April issue of the “Fortune” magazine
there is an article entitled “Arms and Men.”
This article puts a new light, for many who
have-read-it;-en-just-why nations are arming.
In the article names are plainly given of the
men who, because of their.arms factories, have
been “flies in the ointment” of numerous arms
parleys. One boasts that he was the cause of
the failure of the late London Conference.
These men have gotten such a hold on the
politics, especially of Europe, that they are
the “bosses” of the politicians and they back
men who are most likely to stir up trouble.
Hitler was supported in his campaign by arms
manufacturers. There are other cases cited
in the article where these men for the sake of
worldly gain have done much in preventing
peace.

When we consider that seventy cents of
every dollar paid in federal taxes goes to the
building and upkeep of our army and navy,
there is little wonder why school teachers go
unpaid and schools are failng more every year

to come up to par, that thousands of citizens ”

become sick at heart because of the weight of
taxes and give up hope, that the CWA and
other like organizations are having to stop
functioning for lack of funds, etc. If we could
only realize how much easier life would be if
that enormous amount spent for the army and
navy would be left at home, there would be
a very few who would not do his part in help-
ing to stamp out the idea that we must have
huge navies and armies in order to keep peace.
—jJ. BL.

At The Broadcaster -

Spring is in the air! ... Can't you
feel it? Maybe you can, but I can't.
I am cold as the dickens while writing
this out on the campus. ... But just
the same, it’s spring. . . . Can’t you

smell it? ... I am inhaling some pe-
culiar odors coming from the chem-
istry lab. . . . Something ought to be

done about such horrible odors. ... Ah,
spring!’. . . The campus is getting
greener every day; the flowers are
bloomitig; the birds are singing... .
And, “In spring, a young man’s fancy
lightly turns to thoughts of Arde gr}
You fill in, it should make an inter-
esting game. . . .. Examinations ap-
proach on the bright horizon. . . . Too
bad we have to take such things in
such weather ... or in any kind of
weather, . . . Students roam around in
shirt sleeves. ... Professors work hard
to keep the students awake in classes.
... Girls seem to look much nicer in
spring frocks. ... I’m sleepy, it must
be spring fever... . If we only didn’t
have those darned old classes. ‘
School should really end the first of
April. . . . Ho-hum, ’tis spring.

Flash! Ben Wyche is a new “ find”
of Morganton Lunatic Asylum! Au-
thorities on the insane caught this Da-
vidson student without the goods, but,
only finding him to be “nertz,” sent
him back to Davidson! That’s how
the news, over-exaggerated, reached
this department. But that can’t be
true. Now that-we have had our fun,
let’s get the facts. Dr. Hood and his
abnormal psychology class took a trip
to Morganton last week to study the
cases which they have been taking up
in the classroom. On their arrival at
the insane asylum, Ben Wyche was
framed by two Davidson students who
grabbed his arms, messed up his hair,
and to Ben's amazement, lead him up
the stairs. While the crowds gasped
as Ben was being escorted, the sur-
prised student could not try to escape
because his insanity would have been
even more obvious. So with the kind
words of his escorters to “be calm,”
Ben in his new role, walked up ‘and
took it. This couldn’t go on forever,
so it ended right there, and thus our
big scoop concludes. Better luck next
time, Ben, That is, of course, in ref-
erence to your embarrassment.

I wish to acknowledge two letters
received this week from readers of The
Broadcaster. -The first is a letter from
Bill Mullis, who writes from Harvard
Law School in Cambridge, Mass. The
other is from a student who signs his

‘name, “Guess Who.” I appreciate these

letters very much, and again I encour-
age the readers to send in their opin-
ions and tell the world their thoughts.
Both leters are published below.
Dear Broadcaster:

Your discussion of the freshman
voting privilege seems by far the most
commendable yet offered on the sub-
ject. You treat it as a privilege and
not a right, which discloses your hav-
ing taken Polit. 2, or did you already
realize that?

I disagree with you, and almost en-
tirely for practical reasons. To dis-
pose of the greatest complaint first, I
agree thatthe freshmen are the ones
who are best fitted to choose the cheer
leader, and I do not believe that th
Student Council in framing the amend-
ment had in mind barring the fresh-
men from choosing that man any more
than they did the Sophomore class
president, An interpretation of the
amendment to mean student body offi-
cers would remove that thorn.

There are many things to be said
for such an amendment. You will not
agree at first, but with the exercise of
your memory and your realization that
man is capable of unlovely things, for
instance, “ polliticking,” you'll see some
justification, I’m sure.

Sats i,
All legislative acts must be consid‘

ered in the light of history. The real
reason can’t be found without such
consideration; neither can any appre-
ciation be worked up without it, when
the move has elements of unpopularity
in it.

Would it make any difference to you
to know that the suggestion for such
an amendment came on the unanimous
motion of one of the two leading hon-
orary societies? Or that it ‘was con-
sidered at great length by a Student
Council which had been elected under
the old system and yet were broad
enough to condemn such a system?
Or that the proposed amendment was
read to the student body one day and
voted on several days later after time
for full consideration had been given?
Or that no. opposition to its passage
was offered at the time? Rather an
indication, don’t you think, that the
students did not wish the possibility
of such conditions remaining?

These features stand out to me:

1. Freshmen do not know the best
men in .the student body by name,
character and action. They know many
seniors, but those men are not voted
upon, They know few juniors and
sophomores by anything but reputa-
tion and fully too. These they vote on.

2. Rising sophomores comprise over
a third portion of the student body
in their first spring. They are more
easily swayed by propaganda (of the
word of mouth variety); and because
they are feeling the power of moving
as a class for the first time in student
body activities, they are susceptible to
a choice of making themselves impor-
tant as over against making their in-
dividual choices for the officer to be
picked. (That was the feature that
brought the amendment forth; the
others had been existent before, but
this condition of being a potential faun
for a clever manipulator brought the
thing to a head, It'll happen rarely,
but it'll happen, nevertheless. Only
by banding all the other classes to-
gether wa’ it possible to keep a cer-
tain election from being ridiculous.
That gave the students a sufficient
scare to realize the necessity for ac-
tion.)

3. One of the most valuable’ collat-
eral benefits of such an amendment
should be the appreciation of the vot-
ing privilege when it is accorded. There
could be much less abuse of the vote
by men who were made to realize its
importance.

You, of course, realize, as we can
tell by your column, what other edi-
torial writers on. the subject have
missed, that the vote is a privilege to
be granted only to those capable of
exercising it correctly.

A feature that didn’t appeal to me
was suggested in the editorial of Feb-
ruary 14. Why should Davidson copy
the systems of other colleges? Our
student government has been far more
successful than most other colleges’,
and it certainly wasn’t because we
copied those others.

I can see how your inate sense of

justice was violated when the fresh-
men weren't allowed to vote on the
matter they were better qualified to
handle than any others, but as for dis-
carding an amendment which was
thrown up as a safeguard by people
just as interested in the welfare of
Davidson as you are, tread carefully!

Most sincere regards to you and suc-
cess to your column, Bill Mulliss, Har-
vard Law School, Cambridge, Mass.

Dear Broadcaster:

Please understand that this is no
ordinary fan mail, although I must let
you know how much I enjoy your col-
umn,

Since you have shown so much in-
terest in the current problems on the
campus, I wish you would write on the
Present grading system, and suggest
some material improvement.

Lovingly,
° Guess Who.

Dear Guess Who:

Thanks very much, Watch for this
column next week for an answer.
Yours,

The Broadcaster.

Compassing The Campus

The sole purpose of this new column
is to present a campus chatter-box for
your enjoyment. It is subject to your
critical appraisal, and we welcome sug-
gestions and comment from the student
body.

Sassiety—

Last week-end was certainly a high
light for Davidson’s social lions and
cubs; only a few students were left
on.the campus, while numbers flocked
to Spartanburg, Chapel Hill, Greens-
boro, Lynchburg, Charlotte, and inter-
mediate points. One Converse swain
returned to Davidson Sunday morning,
got lonely, so he went back to Spar-
tanburg to spend the Sabbath with his
fair young maid. The local B. M. O. C.
club was represented at the May
Frolic in the Tin Can at Chapel Hill

by Bar Sprunt, Wee Thompson,,Owen
Ravenel, and Sam Eaton. Among those
seen at the Junior-Senior dance at
W. C. U. N. C. Saturday night were
Peyton Montgomery, Mack Holland,
Tom Downie, Reggie Harris, Scotty

McLeod, Charlie Rives, and M. B. Wal-_

lace. Lynchburg’s brass band met a
party of Davidsonians at the station
there Saturday afternoon and, from all

reports, we believe that Bob Smith‘

came off with the Key to the City.
Randolph-Macon is the attraction.

Miscellaneous
To the FERA boys: The world may
owe you a living, but you don’t owe
us a serenade. It’s not hard to believe
that somebody owes you a singing les-
son, too. And there’s one boy in Geor-
gia who studies in the afternoon!

Eats and Speeches

Bouquets and scallions were tossed
and exchanged in a verbal tiff at the
banquet given for the editorial and
business staffs of the Davidsonian last
Friday in Chambers. It was a swell
banquet, and some of the speeches
weren't so bad either. All .students
who are connected in any way with
the publication of this paper were, pres-
ent, and a meal which testified to the
financial solvency of the publication
was served to about fifty hungry lads.
Ye sports editor should throw some
orchids to Casali, Johnson, Weeks,
Wadsworth, Pratt-Thomas; and a May
Day basket full to Professor Fleagle,
who spoke most entertainingly at the
banquet.

Present also at the banquet were the
present and future editors of the
YOWL, a magazine devoted to the
publication of pseudo-humor, mistaken
wit, and some cartoons, The question
was raised (I don’t think they ever
got it down) as to whether the David-
sonian inadvertently contains more real
humor in its columns than the YOWL
does intentionally. The only difference
seems to be that the YOWL is labeled
HUMOROUS, ad the Davidsonian is
not even labeled.

Miscellaneous Again

Whoever absconded with the sher-
iff's wireless set while* the baseball
team was on a week-end trip had bet-
ter return it to Jule pretty soon; the
sheriff has a stud council posse and
is hot on the trail of the miscreants,

ROATSEY

The annual federal inspection of the
local R. O. T. C. unit. reflected much
credit on the Davidson roatsey instruc-
tors, the student officers, and the frosh
and soph underlings as well. Asked
where the balance of his rifle was,
David Sellars cracks, “This is all they
gave me, sir.” And some Mann
dropped his rifle during the parade;
he just wanted everybody to know he
could do it without blushing. The in-
specting officers asked Professor Mor-
row how many years he had taken
R. O. T. C, and Pros comes back,
“69257340,” giving his rifle number.
Incredible. It was really a good in-
spection, though. Congratulations (no
orchids left) to Major Bill Brown and
the boys.

Pedantic

A brief sojourn in the Queen City
has proved to innumerable Davidson
scholars to be an efficacious remedy
for spasmodic caprices of nostalgic de-
spondency. Try it!

Melodrama

Those who saw a certain stage show
in Charlotte severals Weeks ago will
agree that I am Zachary Wright when
I say that it was a complete Sugg-in;
Elvery time I see a show like that, I
feel like Eaton peanuts, and throw-
ing the hulls at the players. The melo-
dramatic presentation commenced with
the hero, who was estranged from his
girl, Ton, going Waopdward to Hunter.
He ‘was going to try to reconcile him-
self with Ton. Running swiftly through
a Marsh, he Boggs up in the Smyre
and begins to Yelverton. Ton lived in
a Stuckey house on a nearby Hill, and
she thought his squawking was a lot
of Huie, so she simply said that she
wished he would Hurst up, and Lee ve
her alone with her thoughts. At last
the hero extricated himself from the
muck, in the doing of which he nearly
Brock his leg; however, he was out
and on his way to the house when the
Winn started blowing, and he thought
he would Frieze before he got there.
He decides to Wauchope the front
steps and say “Howie you feeling?”
just as if nothing had happened, Ton
‘comes down the stairs and asks in an
indignant tone,, “Wauda you doing
here?” But when she sees the Mick-
ley condition her lover is in, she—re-
pents, forgives, and takes him in the
kitchen where our: hero receives a
Hart-y meal of Wehners, Dill pickles,
White bread, lemon Cade, boiled Rice,
Spanish Mackorell, and something Ellis
which I can’t remember. He really
didn’t need any Moore, for he was al-
ready beginning to Reel. It’s odd how
fast food goes Downie a man’s Gul-
lette. The story ends as the lovers
Mack up, kiss each other, and then,
Faison the audience, they bow togethe:
as the old organ plays, “I Snead Thee
Every Hour.” As I said at the begin-
ning, it was a deplorable performance—
reminding one of the missing Link;
and all that sort of Duff.

Radio Log

Roosevelt:

“President Roosevelt will be heard
Thursday afternoon, NBC, CBS, at 4
o'clock in an address of acceptance of
the William Jennings Bryan Memo-
tial, which is a gift from the Bryan
Association, headed by Josephus Dan-
iels.

Insull:

The network broadcasters hope to
microphone an account of Samuel In-
sull’s arrival in this country on May 9,
following his extended exile abroad.
They will invite Mr. Insull to broad-
cast.
