THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 5,

1934

The Davidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

socinted "Golieginte Press
bag 7 re

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are but all i
tions intended for publication must be signed.

Ke Di WEEKS 6.66. 6 8 0 a es aitor,
Jj. A. C. WADSWORTH Business Manager

” EDITORIAL STAFF - :
Martin BARNETT .---- aoe Managing Editor
PauL HarLan -.- es Managing Editor
Tom MarcHANT -Managing Editor
JOHN WALKER cvaccsuisadcesudinndalaas. Managing Editor

---Managing Editor
Sports Editor

Harvey GLass
Lamont Brown

Enip Bowers ---.- --Exchange Editor
GARUVUS EWS) cues ee ceeseeteccceuaee Feature Editor
Scotty McLeop Feature Editor

Associate Editor
--Associate Editor

G. L, GuLLette .-
E. F. McPuart .--

Broly sROSkae eases --Associate Editor
JACK H&ULinca®*socsccc se sccccaseesteca Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
Ui. Bi GOSLEN cicaUecs cecuddeawackouul Asst. Business Mgr.
VAL CASSELS Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross Asst. Business Mor.
Je: MCMULLEN: ccacccoo coi soso Asst. Business Mgr.
RW PYSMORROW. cauScce eos aa ee Asst. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1934

It is not necessary for all men to be great in action.
The greatest and sublimest power is often simple
patience-—Horacr Busunetn,

OLD “PHI” SOCIETY
FORCED TO DISBAND

fl P HERE was
a time when only two organizations on the Hill had
powers ; one of these was the Philanthropic Literary
Society.“ It has had its share of honor and glory.
From the date of its foundation records have been
kept, and from these we learn of the aims for which
this Society was founded. The-highest aim of this
Society was to benefit humanity, ‘to be “lovers of
men”, This has been the background which has
trained many prominent citizens of the two Caro-
linas. The present President of our College was
once a member of this Society. Students were
coached in Parlimentary Procedure and elements of
Public Speaking.

We remark of the jubilee-days of the Philan-
thropic Society not that from the illustrious tradi-
tion of the past might come an impetus of rejuvena-
tion, nor that the improvished present might turn
into a vivacious future, but to point out the eminent
position it once held.

There are several reasons for the declining in-
terest in the Literary Societies. In the days when
travel to and from near-by towns was impeded by
road conditions and modes of travel, the students
had one social outlet-—and that was through the
Literary Societies. Social fraternities had not es-
tablished themselves basically nor sufficiently enough
in those days to replace the Literary Societies.
Inter-Collegiate Activities were not potent enough to
claim the glamor adopted by them today. Without
the least doubt, Athletics have done much to trans-
plant interests and to make these interests more
manifest in such activities approved by public pat-
ronage. Even the public orations have been replaced
by the inter-Collegiate debates, which to our minds
is the last trace of the aspiring literati. Honorary
fraternities have sprung up, and they too have chok-
ed the Literary Societies.

We merely wish to point out the transfer of in-
terests. We do not solicit aid for the rejuvenation
of what, seemingly, is superfluous. We wonder
where our potential lawyers, ministers, and public
workers are gaining experience. Once this experi-
ence was secured through membership and activity
in one of the Literary Societies. In the year 1934
days are crowded and nights are drawn out with
work and activities. Men do not have time to spend
in preparation for debates or talks for the meeting.
Unless there is some expenditure of energies no
profit can be gained.

One solution to such a problem, as this confront-
ing us, might be the addition of a full time faculty
worker, under whose supervision the Literary Socie-
ties might function. Such an instructor should
teach Public Speaking, Debating, and Dramatics.

C.D.

Duane the

past few years, there has been a marked decline of
interest in Forensic activities. This is strange at a
college where for over three-quarters of a century
debating and declamation were the most important
extra-curricular activities—where the privilege of

FORENSIC ACTIVITIES
DECLINING ON CAMPUS

NY

representing the alma mater in oratory was an hono
sought by many, gained by few. - ;

Little more than a decade ago the literary societies:
were considered the most important campus organi-
zations, and editorial writers of that day lamented
the fact that their unwieldly size made necessary the
division of the historic Eumenean and Philanthropic
societies, in the subsequent formation of two new
literary groups. Although “literary” in name, these
societies were in reality debating clubs, and they
proved the oratorical training ground of many an
accomplished speaker. .

There was a day when “Junior Speaking” actually
meant “Junior speaking’; there was a time when
every graduate had had at least some rhetorical ex-
perience. In the past few years interest in such
matters has grown smaller and smaller, until now
there is only one dwindling society left in those
venerable halls.

It is especially to be regretted that such a situation
should arise at a liberal arts college such as David-
son where so many students plan to enter the minis-
try, or law, or teaching—fields of endeavor in which
the practical knowledge of rhetoric and an adequate
demand of words are essential. In business, medi-
cine, in fact in all other branches of professional
activity men are finding themselves called on to ad-

dress boards, committees, and clubs or other profes- |

sional or social organizations. Never has the gift
of Hermes been more universally in demand.

Certainly the dearth of interest is not due to a lack
of material. The college has produced and can con-
, tinue to produce a number of distinguished speak-
ers. The professor of economics has been kind
enough to contribute a part of his time to coaching
the debating team, and a generous allowance is grant-
ed the Forensic council for trips. Yet only twenty-
six men reported for debating try-outs -held last
week,
This may seem a large number at first glance;
but when the enrollment was less than half of the
“present six hundred and fifty, the number of appli-
cants for forensic honors was far greater. At one
time almost_the entire-student body seems to have
participated in some form of forensic activities.
Last year the suggestion was made that a public
speaking department should be established at David-
son. No one can justly question the desirability of
this step, but the college authorities may well ask:
“does the student interest justify the expense such
a department would incur? True we pay for full
time instructors in athletics and in music, but see
how many students are actively in those activities.
Such opportunities as you did have for forensic
training seemed grossly neglected.”
Is it not time for a revival of that fine, and, at
Davidson, well nigh lost, art of public speaking?
Can we not have a renaissance of forensic interest?

D. T.

Ts E Y Cabinet,

beyond a doubt, has chosen one of the most worth-
while causes for the Christmas Gift this year. A

THE CHRISTMAS GIFT
FOR A NEEDY CAUSE

number of causes are presented each year to the’

Cabinet from which it picks the most needy and most
deserving. The call of Christ from the Mountain
Mission work in Ashe County is convincingly chal-
lenging every man in the student body.

The question often arises in connection with the
Christmas Gift, What is the actual need? Are the
recipients of our gifts in any more need than we
ourselves, or some others we know?

In answering these questions we might say first
of all that the people in Ashe County have been
woefully neglected not only by the state but also
by the Church. Before Mr. Stone went there some
ten or twelve years ago there was no through-the-
year Sunday School in the whole County. Even
today after the splendid work that has already been
affected by Mr. Stone and his associates, each of
the unfinished churches must minister to people for
a radius of five miles or more. The earnestness and
sincerity of the people is shown in their willingness
and eagerness to travel, mostly walk, this distance
to worship God in an unfinished, non-equipped,
poorly heated skeleton of a building. Yet under
such limited circumstances God is wonderfully us-
ing His servants to bring'the light of the World into
the darkened souls of these mountain people. It
cannot be estimated: what good could be done if
only adequate means were available.

Are the people doing anything for themselves?
They have very little in reality to give—but such
as they have they have given. Their churches have
been ‘built of the native stone, quarried there in the
mountains. They have given of their teams, trucks,
sands, rocks, and lumber. But they have gone.as
far as they can without outside help. There is a
need for finishing this work so nobly begun. It
can truly be said of them that “they first gave of
themselves”. It is time for some one to recognize
these noble beginnings and as brothers in~ Christ
lend them the helping hand that their efforts so
justly deserve.

Is $750.00 too large a goal? Every man in the
student body should covet the privilege of having
a part in this great work. It is an opportunity for
expressing the true Christmas spirit of sharing. The
goal of the Y is for every man to have a part in

this work, Can it depend on you? D. B.

OUR
ontemporaries

By Eni Bowers

State College

“Hello Week” was instituted at State
Monday by the newly organized State
College Club whose chief purpose is to
renew the waning school spirit and: to
foster more friendly relations among the
students. During this week badges will
be worn by each student on which will
be printed his name. (an exact replica
of the ancient-old Davidson custom dur-
ing the first two weeks of school).
“Each student is requested to speak to
each passing student on the campus or
elsewhere.”

Louisiana State College

The famous Huey P. Long, Emperor
O’Longiana, almost played havoc with
L. S. U.’s great football team when he
had Abe Mickal proclaimed a state sena-
tor. Through the level headness of
“Biff” Jones, Mickal refused the seat
in the senate chamber. Had he accepted,
Mickal would have been on the payroll,
receiving ten dollars per day. Being on
the state payroll would make him a pro-
fessional athlete, thereby removing him
from the ranks of the L. S. U. “ama-
teurs”.

Wake Forest

A pawn shop has appeared on the
campus of Wake Forest College which
appears, from all reports, to be a boon
and a curse. The students have found
it mighty nice to be able to borrow money
when they need it, but the wardrobes
and personal belongings of individuals on
the campus are diminishing rapidly.
Collegiana:

Of the total enrollment of 850 boys at
W & L this year, there are 23 sets of
brothers ... Approximately three-fourths
of the college women in the United States
attend co-educational institutions .
Hunter College (New York City) fresh-
men average 16 years of age .. . Andre
de Coppet, New York banker, has given
more than 500 volumes which originally
formed part of the library of Napoleon
Bonaparte . . . $30,000,000 a year is-doled
out by 125 college and universities in
the U. S. A... . A co-ed at the Uni-
versity of Oklahoma caused some excite-
ment in class when her false eye-lashes
became unglued and fell down on her
face. The professor was immediately
aroused thinking it was a centipede .. .
Roger Babson believes that the great
middle class of people are going t o de-
mand a dictatorship in this country ulti-
mately . . . A student. at Sweetbriar
sent a picture of her aunt to Ballyhoo
and was immediately accepted for pub-
lication Horseback riding has
doubled in popularity this year over last
at Smith College . . . The editors of the
Princeton and Harvard humor maga-
zines published a joint issue of 3,000
copies to prove that there was no hard
feelings against each other . . . Fresh-
men at Baylor College in Texas are
known as “Fish” . . . The names, ad-
dresses, and telephone numbers of all
co-ed freshmen at the University of
Pittsburgh can be bought, for ten cents
... A total of 827 living chemists have
had training in chemistry and chemical
engineering at the Penn. State College
. . . North Carolina students “ragged”
Duke so long and hard about their lack}
of school spirit that the Duke seniors
appointed a committee to draw up a set
of them... . Until recently students
were levied with a poll tax at Dart-
mouth, when a student leader proposed
a bill to construct a wall eight miles
long around the town, and a town hall
one foot wide and a mile high .. . One
hundred freshmen started a revolt at the
University of Maryland and were un-
ceremoniously dumped into the chill wat-
ers of a nearby creek...

Prof. Charles Robson, of the Univer-
sity of North Carolina has returned to
Chapel Hill after a visit with his mo-
ther, Mrs. Alice Robson.

Miss Mary Withers entertained at
luncheon Saturday, December 1, for sev-

By Scorry McLrop

One of the greatest grid seasons in the
history of the game has just been com-
pleted, and the only two spectacles that
loom on the football horizon today are
the New Year Flower Battle between
Stanford and Alabama, and the Georgia-
Watts tilt which will be over when you
read this. The South hopes that the
Red Regiment will not mar its record
of being undefeated in a Rose Bowl game,
Coach Frank Thomas has stated that he
and’33 of his players will arrive in Pasa-
dena-on December 24 in plenty of time
for drilling on the playing field there.

The only man in the line of the re-
cently picked All-State eleven who lives
in the state of North Carolina is our

Jim Morgan, of Albepsamle. Sabol is
from Ohio, Pat Swan -— of the Bos-
ton Swans, ahd George Barclay hails
from Pennsylvania. Other All-State
linesmen are from Virginia, Oklahoma,
and South Carolina. “Big Jim” Morgan
is the only player in the mythical for-
ward wall who could be truly said to
represent the Old North State.

While we are on the topic of the
All-State team, here are a few notable
facts: Midget Verble, Concord, who
failed to make his football letter this
year was placed on the second All-State
team by Ed Mitchell in his Greensboro
Daily News selections. Wingfield © and
Potter showed up in Mr. Mitchell's
third-string line-up . . . John Siewers
received five votes in the board selec-
tions . Clarence Parker and Jim
Hutchins, both on the first eleven, are
sophomores and apparently of All-Ameri-
can calibre . . . Jim Johnston, who plays
for the Davidson B’ squad, received one
vote for the berth at guard on the All-
State eleven . . . Weighing 170 pounds,
Johnny Mackorell is the lightest man on
the mythical squad.

Enthusiasm over the Georgia-Watts
gridiron altercation reached a climatic
peak at the game yesterday afternoon.
Despite the outcome, it could not be said
that cither dormitory lacked supporters
in the stands.

HERE AND THERE: | Seen by a
stooge at the Gala Gobbler Gathering at
the Myers Park Club were a number
of notable Davidsonians including Lex-
ington’s gift to women, Mal Grimes;
President Carl Carlson of the Centen-
nials; Hack Sanders, celebrated Indian
chief of many squaws; Billy Northen,
that suave Southern gentleman; Duke
Glasgow, runner-up in Davidson recent
Ugly Contest; Wimpy Ravenel, never
reticent ; Dance-master Percy Mims Rog-
ers, and Bug Barringer, Bill Pritchard,
Bill Bondurant, Baxter Moore, Bud
Okey, George Cowan, Tom Sutton and
numerous other followers of the gay
life... We have also heard of the Jack
Stern hop at the Hotel Concord Friday
eve at which were present, upholding
the dignity of Davidson, such stalwarts
as Paul Pittman, Baxter Yarborough,
Midget Verble, Lynwood Hammond, Joe
Johnston, Donigan, and Clark. Possibly
others.

We begin next week in this column a
series of sketches which we shall call,
for want of a better title Campus Per-

eral visiting girls.

sonalities. Look for them next week.

‘Orr was NEWS...” ofrecer cnet

’ FIVE YEARS AGO

The Wildcats defeat Duke Blue Devils
13-12 . . . College makes plans to form
radio contact in near future with WBT
. . . Kuester addresses Business Admin-
istration class at Davidson . . . Fifteen
members taken into the International Re-
lations Club . . . Jim Appleby speaks
at Vespers . . . Canvassing for “Y”
Mission Fund for mountain boys be-
gins.

TEN YEARS AGO

Davidson ends successful season by
defeating Trinity’ team 12-13 .. . Emory
and Davidson to clash in debate in At-
lanta . . . Glee Club. makes rst appear-
ance of year in Shearer Hall . . . Con-
verse Glee Club sings at Davidson. . .
Dr. J. S. Foster, pastor of Winston-
Salem Presbyterian Church, speaks at
Vespers . . . Clarence Ranson has excel-

lent record as freshman coach .. .

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Davidson Wildcats trounce Furman
Hornets 41-14 . . .; College sends five
to Student Volunteer convention in Des
Moines . . . Davidson College Day to be
celebrated soon . . . Sophs win class
basketball championship .. . R. O. T. C.
band takes trip to Rock Hill . . . Six.
teen men initiated into the “D” Club
+ +» Glee Club and Orchestra give con-
cert here...

TWENTY YEARS AGO

Wildcats end season with 7-6 victory
over Wake Forest . . . Glee Club and
orchestra give initial Program of year
on the “Hill” ...°: Senior is unusual
success . . . Dr. J. M. McConnell in-
vited to speak at Raleigh . . . Red Cross
makes appeal to College for help...
Freshmen win basketball championship,

“SELECTED PAPERS
of
PHINEAS SPOON.”

THE NATIONAL DIFFERENTZAL

As Americans we share in common
with all peoples, regardless of race or
nation or five physical senses. They act
and react with a degree of universal —
similarity. If the description of Man
were complete with the enumeration of
these five, then all would be under the
same law. Nature would be the only
sovereign in a realm where even politi-
cal action and reaction would be determ-
ined by inflexible formula.

But this is not the case. Different
bodies of peoples have altogether diff-
erent sensibilities notwithstanding the
universality of common mental and phy-
sical endowments.

In the face of this condition it is easy
td believe in the reality of a sixth sense
—something altogether inarticulate, but
constantly abiding and at work. Where-
as it cannot be objectively analyzed, it
can be sensed as an experience of con-
sciousness. It is the presence of this pe-
culiar sense or pressure which makes
the difference between an American and
a Frenchman, for example.

This differential has been superficially
termed a “point of view.” Some name
it “Nationalism.” It has been laid at the
doors of culture language, environment,
and general social heritage. None of
these are explanations.

After all the world is very large, and
man is small. To my mind, there is great
importance to be attached t o the fact
that with a Il the world in which to
wander, man settles. With great spaces
filled with infinite variety, man nestles
close to the familiar, hugging the finite.
It seems that he is most comfortable
when safe within his “closed society.”

By his own contrivance, man is a
“neighborhood,”and not an international
animal. The sweep of the revolutionary
impulse in the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries demonstrated that men every-
where wished above all else that their
groups be “closed societies” independent
from all others.

Life is a problem of adjusting the
personal values within to the confusion
prevailing without, in’a society which is
a “going concern.” Thus each is faced
with..the problem of adjustment, what-
ever his inner compulsion may be.

This problem sets up a chronic sense
of tension between the individual and
the “outside.” The smaller the “outside”
element, the less violent the tension.
He minimizes the tension when he effects
a “neighborhood” relationship, a corpor-
ate consciousness peculiar to himself and
those with whom he moves.

The man in the “closed society” who
has made this adjustment finds, on cross-
ing the frontier, that he has moved into
the atmosphere of another group con-
sciousness. In this new climate, the
problem of adjustment is not the sa me.
His internal standard of. values does not
match ,that of his foreign cousins. Their
individual wills are making a corporate
compromise to an external pressure in
a fashion adapted to the conditions of
their peculiar social “set-up.”

Glenn Gray Ranked
Highly In Colleges

For College And University
Appearances

By Associated Collegiate Press

Glen Gray and his Casa Loma Or-
chestra, which holds the tecord for ap-
Pearances at coNege and university func-*
tions, not only present new ideas in pop-
ular dance rhythms but also a unique
plan of band organization.

Glen Gray is president of. the Casa
Loma Corporation, a closed corporation
open only to members of his band. The
organization is operated on a business-
like basis, and members receive a quar-
terly dividend in addition to their regu-
lar monthly-pay-check.

New members are admitted to the
band only after they have been passed
on by a board of directors on’ the basis
not only of musical ability but con-
geniality and personality as’ well.

_ This has led to the saying in musical
circles that Casa Loma is organized like

a business firm and run like a college
fraternity.

Among the most popular of modern
recording and broadcast artists, their
Popularity may be said to be due prin-
cipally to their originality. Casa Loma
set a record by playing for more than 70

collegiate affairs in 40 states in three
seasons,

The band is now on the air with the

‘Camel Caravan, co-featured with Walter

O'Keefe and Annette Hanshaw and
broadcast over the Columbia Network
every Tuesday and Thursday nights,

‘
