THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 14, 19

34

The DMabvidsontan -

Founded by the Class of 1915

Associated “Golleginte Press
~ 31934 Gollegiate Digest 1935 —
absON WISCONSIN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock P.m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are but all
tions intended for publication must be signed.

Editor
Basnes Manager

K. D. WEEKS .......--.
J. A.C. WADSWORTH . .

Martin BARNETT wanesnonnnnnonnnasann=-MONOging Editor
Paut HARLAN -.-- ae g Editor
WOM MARCHANT caccadcsneucucdaccssucee Mantas Editor
JoHN WALKER waal Editor

_._-Managing Editor
puleceees Sports Editor

Harvey GLass
LaMont Brown

MINI CROWEAS, Bicaccuscdaseadsocsenuassis. Exchange Editor
CaRLYLE Lewis ~--- eae Feature Editor
Scotty McLerop ----Feature Editor

Associate Editor
Associate Editor

G. L. Guttetre
E. F. McPHai,

B. L. Rose Associate Editor
JACK HRLLINGER: cosusulcnouccccosceecsse. Associate Editor
Vitis; GOSLEN: adsncanuertuesedscapccae . Business Mgr.
Vat CASSELS .- . Business Mgr.
Tom Ross --.-- . Business Mgr.
J. S. McMuLLEN . Business Mgr.
Rie PS MOMROW  cacdtedcscasauaueuuuuss, . Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1934

To have what we want is riches, but to be able to do
without is power.—G. MacDonald.

PARAGRAPHICS

The Davidson-Carolina game didn’t ‘prove to be
“breather” for Carolina as they had expected after
all. Up until the last quarter they were forced to
use the first string men in order to protect their
margin of victory.

Home-coming was a decided success despite the
bad weather Saturday. An unusually large number
of alumni returned to the campus to spend an en-
joyable week-end, and they certainly were not dis-
appointed. They were loud in their praise for the
many improvements that had been made on the
campus.

Mr. Joe Johnston of Barium Springs and presi-
dent of the alumni association made one of the most
appropriate and most original pep talks we have
ever heard when he spoke before a large crowd in
Shearer Hall last Friday night.

The true Wildcat Spirit was shown both on the
field and in the stands last Saturday. If this spirit
can be maintained for the rest of the season there is
no reason why we shouldn’t win the remaining two
games on our schedule, V. M. I. and Wake Forest.

THE PRESENT TREND OF
COLLEGE FRATERNITIES EF

rd ROM great
universities and colleges of the east comes news of
what may be an important trend in campus life.

At Swarthmore, the smallest of them, only twenty-
seven freshmen from a class of ninety became
pledges to the five national fraternities.having chap-
ters there. That is less than half of the number of
pledges last year, when there were sixty-four fresh-
men out of a class of one hundred and ten. It also
is stated that fifteen students prominent in college
life resigned from fraternities last year.

At Cornell, which has been for many years a
sort of fountain head of the Greek letter societies
of national scope, the interfraternity council an-
nounces that 371 new members have been taken in
this fall from the freshman class. Last year the
same sixty fraternities initiated 434 new members.
Eleven of them failed this year to add a brother to
their roster.

The Cornell correspondent of the New York
Times states plainly “that the shrinkage in enroll-
ment, while not serious at this stage, is regarded as
a part of a trend which began several years ago and
is largely the result of economic conditions ..%.
Whether the return of good times will affect the
situation and bring about a continued growth in the
fraternity system at Cornell is a matter of conjec-
ture.”

At Yale there is a situation approximating an up-
heaval, which has raised a doubt as to the survival
of the junior fraternities, all of which are branches
of national bodies which in most American colleges
are represented by four-year chapters.

Alpha Delta Phi, which at Yale dates from 1836,

has announced it will elect no new members this’

year and will close its $175,000 home. Psi Upsilon
has announced its withdrawal from the interfraterni-

ty council in the college and from the national fra-
ternity, which was chartered in 1839. It has aban-
doned its secret ritual, and will continue as a club.

The Yale situation is said to arise primarily out
of the establishment there of residence colleges which
constitute a sort of equivalent of fraternities and, it
is said, “make fraternities unnecessary.” But at
Yale, as at Swarthmore and Cornell, economic con-
siderations have been important and inescapable fac-
tors.

The importance of the situation at Yale drew from
President Angell an encouraging address, in which
he said:

“The fraternity problem is the one outstanding
problem left over from the old Yale. Its answer is
not easy, in fact may be extraordinarily difficult. But
the fraternity has in past years served as a very
necessary part of Yale’s social life, and I am con-
fident that when they have sufficient adjustments to
the changed conditions, which are a result of the ad-
vent of the college plan, these adjustments will be
found to be of such a nature as will satisfactorily
take care of the enduring social interests of the un-
dergraduates.”

Through a century of American college life-fra-
ternities have justified their existence and have
grown in numbers, in enrollment and in prestige.
Accused by non-sympathizers as clubs predicated on
snobbery, they have none the less, under proper
leadership, exerted a fine force in nearly all schoolse

In the very nature of things, choice of members
was and is a matter of selectivity, and the result is
the establishment of a clannishness. But that is
characteristic of all social groups. We select our
friends as best we may, and we like to be with those
whom we like.

Yet in recent years there has been an inflation of
fraternity costs that is open to serious and justifiable
criticism. Initiation fees have become very heavy,
and dues are large enough to prove a burden to most
students.

If fraternities are to exist in a healthy state, there
must be a common-sense revision of these costs.
Else the chapters can have as members only the sons
or daughters of the wealthy. And when that situa-
tion comes to pass, the fraternities are doomed.
—THE ATLANTA JOURNAL.

\ \ E are proud

of Davidson; we are proud of the Davidson Band.
We are proud that they can play the difficult ‘““Over-
ture to William Tell” and that they march with class
and play their notes clearly. But it sorely grieves
us that it must sink to the realms of High Schoolry
by playing “She'll Be Comin’ Round the Mountain”
and “Hail, Hail, the Gang’s all Here,” and “The Old
Gray Mare” at our football games.

*

CONCERNING WORN-OUT
MUSICAL NUMBERS

We resent not the rendition of these classics once
or twice, or thrice, but to hear them played five and
six times each game wears upon even the worst of
ears. Along with our complaint against this type
of number, we feel that “Washington Post’,
“Cheerio” (the song with the vocal and whistle
chorus) are called upon entirely too often. Why
not give the rest of the repertoire a break?

There are words to “The Good Ole Ship of
Fortune,” such as “Brass will be the railing,” “Wood
will be the fuel,” “Puss will be the Housecat” and
“Coffee will be the beverage” when she comes. But
to the sharp and intolerant sense of humor of mod-
ern youth they are simply non-humorous. And even
if they were effective, nobody knows the words. The
result is pitiful and depressing, ‘although the band
plays well and the cheer leaders are hard working
and able.

Surely a band which is praised as being among
the best in the South will not, by necessity, repeat
the old favorites so often. From opinions expressed
in the stands at recent games we believe that a
snappy, well varied, march program will add more
to the pep of a football game than the singing of
parodied folk tunes—even if the parodies were sung
with relish and gusto.

We are 100% behind the band and believe that
a fine symphonic band is now vital to a cultural
school, as Davidson is. ‘The work in the music de-
partment has been nothing short of phenominal. But
we re-affirm that a first class band should relieve
the “old standbyes” and give them a much needed
rest.

As for the playing of other. well known parodies,
we appreciate our band’s not playing “The Wash-
ington and Lee” swing, and the University of
Maine Stein Song, except in reference to those
schools. If they were aware of the fact, they would
appreciate-it-too.—Paredied—by nearly every High
School and smaller college in the country, their
songs are so good that they have been made dis-
tasteful. We also commend our band on the fact
that it has played “O Davidson” sparingly during
recent home games.

Out of -justice to the leaders of the Band we state
that it is highly probable that they themselves dis-
like to play these numbers but play them believing
that they are desired by the students. However,
after speaking to many on this point and noticing
the reactions at the football games. we believe that
the Student Body is annoyed by the constant repeti-
tion of this type of number.

OUR
ontemporartes

By Eni Bowers

University of Georgia

Phil Harris, National Broadcasting
star, dedicated his nation-wide NBC
radio program from WJZ, New York,
Saturday November. the eleventh.
University of South Carolina

The students at the University are
voting at the polls this week whether or
not they will continue their present
system of honor.

According to a survey on the campus,
Freshmen as well as upperclassmen are
still in favor of the wearing of “rat”
caps. The attitude of most members of
both groups was that the caps are an
essential part of the University and that
they portray the school spirit and the
right to wear one should be looked upon
as an honor.

Colleginia

A Wisconsin University professor
found after research on the problem of
intoxication that a hen in such a state
will lay three times as many eggs as her
sisters. Drunken chickens will probably
be the fad now ... The University of
North Carolina claims the title of the
oldest state university in the country.
The school was chartered 144 years
ago... Inmates of San Quentin, Cali-
fornia State Prison, may enroll as ex-
tension students in the University of
California . . . “When your. hair has
turned to silver’—the government will
confiscate it... According to Miss Jose-
phine Leies, organizer of the Blind Date
Bureau of DePaul University, states that
sixty-eight per cent of the boys want

‘brunettes, eleven per cent want blondes,

and the rest will take what they can
get... To prepare women of Chile for

their newly acquired right to vote, the]: +-

University of Chile has inaugurated
courses in public affairs . . . Governor
W. H. Murray of Oklahoma says that
too many highballs and too much base-
ball are bothering the schools today .. .
The Harvard University Library has
purchased a collection of more than 8,000
photographs of important figures of the
last century, including more than 100 of
Lincoln Making investigation at
Heidelberg and at the University of
Chicago, Dr. George Wald has discovered
that the pigment of the eye contains vita-
min A, and that a lack of it .is likely
to cause “night blindness”, a condition
which sometimes precedes total blindness
. The Rockefeller Foundation has re-
cently granted McGill University at
Toronto a gift of $1,000,000. for the
foundation of a department of* neurology
Eighty-eight of the 192 Rhodes
scholars in 1933 were from the United
States . . . Ohio University officials at
Athens have leased a hotel which is be-
ing used as a coéperative rooming house
for 65 men students . . . Approximately
87 per cent of the colleges and universi-
ties in the United States are not broad-
casting their football games this year...
Washington University in St. Louis, Mo.,
during 1933-34 school year, received gifts
totalling $858,818 .. . “The jazz age is
at its ragged tail end; it is no longer
smart to be immoral,” says Rabbi A. H.
Silver =. It has been estimated recently
that there are still more than four mil-
lion illiterates in America, despite the
great efforts made to educate the people
of the nation. . . The majority of the
freshmen at Brown University this year
have selected either medicine or engi-
neering as their careers. Law, which led
last year, is third this year...

Mrs. Nelson Mebane was hostess to the
Twentieth Century Club Friday after-
noon, November 9. Mrs. Lewis Schenck
gave an interesting paper on The Berry
School.

C'OMPASSING

By Scorry McLrop

No Home-coming alumnus could in any
way be disappointed in the way that the
fighting ‘Wildcats showed up against the
evident superiority of a well-drilled Car-
olina team, The coaches and all the
players certainly merited the whole-
hearted support that has been given them.
Over five hundred of our old grads were
on hand for the fray and the slight rain
was no large drawback to the gala day.
Home-coming, as a Davidson institution,
is foremost among the periods of
alumni migration, and a popular day with
the students. It has been developed from
days long gone by and steadily is increas-
ing as a campus custom eagerly antici-
pated by the graduates and students alike.

SEEN AND HEARD

The stupidity of an erring Chinese
gentleman in regard to two banquets
which were planned for post-hop cele-
brators in Charlotte Saturday night; he
confused the Pikas with the Country
Gentlemen, thinking them to be an iden-
tical organization—one and the same...
Finally the latter club availed its mem-
bers of the facilities of the town Pep
The potency of Bob Atwater’s appeal
revealéd in the fact that his gal arrived
here Thursday night for the week-end ..
. Stokes Aderton shadowing Bud Raker
at the hops... Carl Carlson’s sister stag-
geting the stag line . . Mary Frances
Crosby making a big hit... She is Miss
“South Carolina” according to pulchri-
tude judges in a decision rendered last
year; Harvey McConnell obviously
agrees with the decision and should be
a competent judge . John Sadler
being embarrassed at the K.A. house
. The Chemist Convention in full sway
but not very well under control .. .
Crowded elevators ... Anna Mae Feuch-
tenberger and Salty Peters hitting it off
very nicely . . The well-known David-
son bird-cage with Geddie Munroe,
Wimpy Ravenel, Billy Northen, and P.
D. Guerrant . . . Hugh Yelverton in’a
little automotive upset . . . Baxter Yar-
(borough with a professor's red-headed
daughter...
NEW ALUMNI

Buddy Gardner, Bo Ravenel, Lanier
Pratt, Hooke McCallie, Twink Kirk-
land, Allen Mebane, Billy Walser, Jeff
Robbins, married Mose Macfie, Frank
Holt, married Don McQueen, John Fos-
ter, Johnny Creech, John Stevens,
Brewster Grant, and numerous others
renewing old campus friendships. Also
Coky Branton who says he’s coming back
next year.

FLASH

The following interesting telegram was
received by the Alumni Office, and re-
ceives exclusive publication herewith:
Bert Lown Seventeen People Featuring
Rhythm Girls Trio Available November
Thirtieth December First If Interested
Wire Care Western Union Here Jack
Mason Manager Unquote. That supplies
a remotely possible tune dispenser for
Thanksgiving and Wake Forest festivi-
ties ... Last year it was Buster Spann
and his South Carolina Gamecocks in the
Hotel Chariotte.

(Continued on Page 5, Column 1)

‘rp was NEWS...” of veer Gone By

NOVEMBER 16, 1914

Students voted ten dollars from dam-
age fees to pay for placing stepping
stones across the street in front of Mr.
Schofield’s store,
needed improvement. Davidson held
Carolina to a 16-3 score in a spectacular
game in Winston-Salem before 2,300
spectators ... The College was preparing
for Senior Speaking with Friday after-
noon and night, and Saturday morning,
afternoon, and night being given over
to the oratorical exercises ... What fun!
You should see the advertisements of
what the well dressed college man was
wearing in 1914!

NOVEMBER 17, 1919

The “Y” announced that it would run
a first class picture every Friday night for
the students; there was no charge, but
all who, would were asked to contribute.
Pictures starred Mary Pickford, Doug-
las Fairbanks, John Barrymore, and
Wallace Reed. The student operators
were fast becoming proficient and were
running almost without any slips (we
wonder). . | . Headline: “Seek and Ye
Shall Find Our Annual, May Be.” . . .
The Davidson Battalion paraded in Char-
lotte for, its Armistice Day celebration,

which was a much]. . .-

taking four companies and sixteen piece
band, . . . Editorials reflect a desire for
more social life on the campus. (The
S. P. U. isn’t a’new idea at Davidson.)
Headline: Freshman Deserts the
College to Take Unto Himself a Better
Half ... The faculty granted the senior
petition asking for exemption to those
having grades over 85 from final exams.
NOVEMBER 13, . 1934
Davidson was preparing for its Home-
coming game with Carolina. (The score
was 6:0, Car.) The Davidsonian called
to mind that Lunsford Richardson,
donor of Richardson Field, made the first
score ever made by a Wildcat against
Carolina ;' it was back in 1910... A few
weeks earlier the Davidsonian carried
an article cleverly written by Dr. Hard-
ing on the death of the Davidson Wild
cat.
NOVEMBER 16, 1929
very class was preparing a stunt to
be presented in Chamber Auditorium on
Home-coming night. . . Davidson put on
its annual radio program over WBT
for half an hour. Dr. Currie made a
short talk, and the band played “I Get
the Blues When It Rains”, (That piece
must have originated at Davidson).

“SELECTED PAPERS
of
PHINEAS SPOON.”

BOOK REVIEW
The Roosevelt Omnibus, édited and an-
notated by Don Wharton, Alfred A.
Knopf, New York, 1934
A true biography of a great man is the
joint work of two generations. The
first, his contemporaries who have seen
his face; the second, a subsequent gener-
ation who with the faculty of detachment
have found his place. After the shap-
ing hand of Time has done its work,
men and events as separate factors set-
tle into their proper perspective.

If we subscribe to this idealistic con-
cept of biography, then the biographers
of Franklin Roosevelt are yet unborn.
In this moment of his ascendance, his
personality too completely dominates a
whole in which he is properly but an in-
tegral part.

Don Wharton, a young and brilliant
North Carolinian, is one of those who
hold to the belief that no man can ‘be
judged in the temper of his time. Quite
objectively, in the “omnibus technique”
he has humbly set about the scrivener’s
task; selecting the simple facts of the
Roosevelt personality. The Wharton con-
tribution to that ultimate “Life of Frank-
lin Roosevelt” resembles a great struc-
ture of which nothing more than the
facade has been built. He has left it to
the artisans of some more extraneous
time to give the edifice its peculiar fin-
ish and find its proper place in the sky-
line milieu.

When as a senior, at Davidson college,
the year book he edited won the national
collegiate award for merit, his career
was already cast in the mold of distinc-
tion. In the few years since his gradu-
ation, Mr. Wharton has been attached to
the editorial staffs of several New York
periodicals, notably “The New Yorker”
magazine,

“The Roosevelt Omnibus” is his first
published volume. -It is a symposium of
Rooseveltana: a many sided picture of a
great man as he grew. LExcept for his
terse annotations and sometimes spicy
footnotes, ‘Wharton has made no au-
thorial contribution to the subject mat-
ter of his “omnibus”. It is a selection
of reprinted material with nothing in
common but its subject. It is the saga
of a hero recorded in divers mediums:
caught by the lens, interpreted by the
cartoonist’ pen, refined by the journalist.

With good taste, finesse, and a refresh-
ing degree of intellectual honesty, Edi-
tor Wharton has arranged his borrowings
from artist, cameraman, and journalist
into a perfect homogeneity.

1 am particularly impressed with two
distinct merits in Don Wharton's Roose-
velt Omnibus.

Firstly, Mr. Wharton's accumulated
minutia is prodigious. If you are cur-
ious to know what Mr. Roosevelt eats
for breakfast, how many of what brand
of cigarettes he smokes daily, the size
of his hat, his average income for the
last twenty-seven years, or what he said
as a New York state senator about Theo-
dore Roosevelt, you'll find the answers
within the pages of this exhaustive omni-
bus. These facts are legion. The thor-
oughness with which the man’s intimate
life has been probed suggests that Mr.
Wharton has tried to press the Roose-
velt personality between the covers of his
book. And in a very real sense he has
quite succeeded.

I am likewise impressed with the
singularity and consistency of Mr. Whar-
ton’s purpose. There is no digression.
His initial aim is to reveal the Roosevelt
character. Nowhere does he lose caste
in the role of raconteur. He restricts
himself to his proper sphere in the bio-
graphical division of labor.

The Roosevelt Omnibus has a dual ap-
peal. For those who sing “Hosannah”
at the mention of his name, and today
they are unnumbered, this encyclopedia
of facts will go far to satisfy an almost
insatiable desire to know more about
the man. But what is more important
than the satisfaction of this capricious
demand, is the possibility that the Roose-
velt Omnibus as an ambitious character
study may have a peculiar historical
value to those who will some day want
to interpret thé events of these strenu-
ous times in the light of the man around
whom they revolve.

(Signed) PuHineAs Spoon.

EDITOR’S LAMENT

Getting out a paper is no picnic. If
we publish original matter, they say we
lack variety. If we publish things from
other papers, we are too lazy to write.
If we stay on our jobs, we ought to be out
rustling news. If we don't print contribu-
tions, we don’t show proper appreciation.
If we don’t print them, the paper is filled
with “junk”. Like as not some fellow
will say we swiped this from another
paper. He’s right; we did—E-xchange.

Miss Carolina Moffett and Mr. Harry
Moffett of Richmond, Virginia, spent the
week-end with their parents, Rev. and
Mrs. H. M. Moffett.
