THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10,

1935

Davidson Observes
98th Anniversary

(Continued from Page 1)
Edison, Benjamin Franklin, and Abra-
ham Lincoln, arising from very poor
means, are to be compared with Mr.
James B. Duke. Mr. Duke, born of
sturdy stock, but of little means, was
practically left an orphan in the hands
of his mother’s relatives at the age of
seven years, when his father was called
into service in the Civil War. When
his father returned the family “girded
up its loins and went to work,” making
and selling crude tobacco products; from
whence has grown the immense tobacco
market of today. “He created the Duke
Power System, which ranks first in the
South, and sixth among the hydro-elec-
tric systems in the United States.”

Mr. Perkins stated that,
ter, in personality, he sincerely believed
Mr. Duke had no superior, and_ that,
“undoubtedly the traits that most influ-
enced Mr. Duke's life and work were
his genius for constructive enterprise,
his love and admiration for his father,
and his deep and sincere religious con-
victions.”

Mr. Duke gave $40,000,000 in value
at its creation and another $40,000,000
in value at his death to climax an im-
posing list of prior benefactions, among
which Davidgon College receives yearly
amounts from these sums toward the
upkeep of the school.

Concluding his talk, Mr. Perkins stated.
“No finer offering has been laid on the
altar of devotion—no more fitting offer-
ing monument erected to a life worth
while, it is a living fountain, whence
flows care for the orphan, culture for
the youth, healing for the sick, and the
Gospel for rural communities. It is a
sacred shrine where grateful posterity,
contemplating this wonderful deed in
calm and understanding retrospection,
will reverently thank God for this mas-
terly man and for our American ideals
which made his accomplishments pos-
sible!"

Opening the program for the day, the
College Concert Band played “Creation
Hymn” by Beethoven, The invocation
was then given by Dr. H. M. Moffett,
followed by the presentation of the por-
trait of Mr. James B, Duke by Rev.
Wm. E. Mellwain from Pensacola, Fla.
Mr. Perkins then gave his talk on Mr.
Duke, after which the band played the
“Morning Hymn of Praise” by Safranek.

in charac-

A very appropriate address by Cam-
eron Morrison was delivered at the con-
clusion of which the band rendered
“Massachusetts Bay Tersentenory March”
by Frazee. The morning was
then concluded by Dr. Walter L. Lingle
pronouncing the benediction.

At 12:45 o'clock the alumni and guests
of Davidson College enjoyed a very de-
lightful luncheon in the dining room of
Chambers Building.

The Davidson Motion Picture House
showed a picture entitled, “The Trail of
the Circuit Rider,” illustrating something
of the origin and the beneficent work
of the Duke Endowment after the lunch-
eon. °

session

Founder's Day meetings were held by
many of the local chapters of Davidson
College Alumni Association last Tues-
day night in the following cities: At-
lanta, Birmingham, Columbia, Concord,
Fayetteville, Gastonia, Greensboro,
Greenville, S. C., Jacksonville, Fla., New
Orleans, and_ Philadelphia.

The first official
held last year in anticipation of the cen
tennial celebration to come in 1937. |

Debating Team Wins
Honor On Tours

(Continued from Page 1)
case presented; (3) Adaptability to the
trend of the debate, freedom from pre
viously prepared arguments which may
have become discredited; (4) Delivery
and (5) Understanding of the opposing
case.

Davidson was graded higher on points
(19, (2) and (5) but lost on points (3)
and (4).

The time and place for the debate
with Georgia Tech Thursday evening
will be announced later. The same ques-
tion will be debated but the side and
team which Davidson will employ has
not been definitely decided.

Boggs’ and Smith's return brings to
a conclusion the: debating trips for the
year. The home schedule that remains
to be completed is as follows: Emory
University, April 19; Hampton-Sydney,
April 22 and Washington and Jefferson,
April 27 or 28.

oe

Founder's Day was

CARS FOR
RENT

we
Gulf Gas and Oil

M. P. HENDERSON

Science Students
Visit Queens’ Club

(Continued from Page 1)

2. A General Electric film entitled,
“A Romance of Power.” This film, in
two reels, depicted the various methods
of work as it is exhibited over the en-
tire world, contrasting muscle power and
electric power. This film was written
and delivered by Or. C. M. Ripley of
General Electric.

3. “Chemical Luminescence” was the
subject of the next part of the program,
being in the form of a paper and some
demonstrations on the peculiar properties
of a recently discovered compound which
under proper conditions gives off a very
striking light, a reaction in which no
heat whatsoever is evolved. This was
prepared and delivered by Ed Hodge.

4. Next, another General Electric
film in one reel entitled, “The Modern
Zeus” was shown. This picture described
the powers of lightning and gave some
very interesting views and a brief ex-
planation of a modern laboratory in
which this natural phenomenon is being
produced artificially and its causes and
effects studied.

5. At this time the physics phase of
light was presented by a program from
Sigma Pi Sigma in three parts:

Our Service Speaks
For Itself
Visit Us Before The

Dances

Norton’s Barber

Shop

(a) A demonstration of vactium tubes
by Hub Powell and Bill Bogart, in which
the various colors of different tubes were
shown. Other interesting physical ex-
periments were given by these two men.

(b) A highly colored demonstration
of the properties and an explanation of
high frequency alternating current was
next, by John Douglas.

(c) The physics department closed
their part of the program with some
induction demonstrations by ‘W. A.
Parker, in which peculiarities of an elec-
tro magnet were explained.

6. The final feature was a Westing-
house film in a rather light vein, being
an animated cartoon describing the mak-
ing of a talking picture by the Westing-
house, process.

WEST POINT

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10
ONE NEW YORK NIGHT

With Franchot Tone, Una Merkle, Conrad Nagel and Harvey Stephens

___ THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 12
“MISSISSIPPI

Bing Crosby, W. C. Fields and Joan Bennett

SATURDAY, APRIL 13
REDHEAD

With Grace Bradley and Bruce Cabot

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, APRIL 15, 16

With Wallace Beery, Lewis Stone, and Maureen O'Sullivan

UJ y :
Students Scatter and Brent, who saw the sights in Flor- Bagby Lectures
F S e R. ida—Gil Palmer and Bluebird Dixon On Ps cholo
C “4 ang? ecess who spent Friday through Sunday in bay be sy
bee Baa fist SAGs Bill Nashville en route to Memphis. Carl] Rapin be She
i x0slin, -Jo” } ; j ; \
Tabe d Edward W Groover who took in the night lift of intreduced by Dr haf evo avidson's
aber, and Edwar ooten. Ball G £cG ; psychology and education department.
Coley Windham with Bob Johnston bs Rn eee Dr. Bagby is a member of the fac-
and Jack Overall at home in Kentucky—| . Howard Dyer -ang “Dome” Patterson,| yity of the University of North Caro-
Bill sacra were: in Philadelphia—Enid aspirants to shaking the president’s hand,|}ina, the men’s unit, and his manner of
ro eb Man reat Su ibe who did get to see the White House— | delivery illustrated well the subject mat-
vee th Sint Hit Heasic VE ‘i “Big Six” Johnston and George Leukel | ter of his talk. He spoke Tuesday morn-
Rian Setel’ i Genie? Wea aaah ie who bummed (and walked) to Philadel-| ing to combined «psychology classes and
Missiastopt, John D. Allen, Carl Chap- phia—"“Rev. Peter” Higgins and Tommy | other interested ‘students on the topic,
man, “Groot” McClung, Hal Overton, Thompson riding a banana truck to Flor-| “The Inferiority Complex.” This lec-
and “Father” Stewart, touring Alabama | ida. ture was equally well received.
and Florida. e @
Notable bumming trips were made by:
“Hack” Sanders and the Greens, Bo! ~
(2, fp
(Susy
MADE-TO-MEASURE
TOPCOAT OR OVERCOAT
Direct to you! Direct
from maker to wearer!
Direct from our whole-
sale tailoring shops!
H No middleman in the
Strand way of doing
business, Every fabric
guaranteed all wool!
Strand Tailoring C Inc. Bal e, Md.
Represented locally by
414 WEST
e .

It was a matter of
pride with a host in
Colonial days that his
guests should smoke
tobacco grown on his
own plantation.

@ 1935, Licczrr a Myzns Tosacco Co,

Today the Governor of North Carolina
says to the Governor of South Carolina—

“Have a cigarette”’

| Bee people all over the world use
tobacco in one form or another.
They chew it, they smoke it in pipes,
they smoke cigars and cigarettes, and here
is what an eminent physician said about
cigarettes:
“I have been something of a student
of cigarettes, and it is my belief that
they offer the mildest and purest form :
in which tobacco is used.”

Yes, nowadays the cigarette is the most
popular form in which tobacco is used. A :
good cigarette certainly gives men and
women a lot of pleasure.

Have a Chesterfield—

For one thing—they’re milder.
For another thing —they taste better.
