THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 6, 1935

5

Wildcats Meet Blue Devils |
In Fourteenth Annual Battle

Wildcats Have Won Four Gaines

Since Beginning Of the
Series In 1922

Heading this week’s grid attractions
in the south, we-find the Wade-coached
Blue Devils invading Richardson field
for their fourteenth annual battle with
the Davidson Wildcats. The battle with
the Devils will feature home-coming for
the Davidson alumni and in addition, the
famous 1910 championship team will at
tend in full force to see for themselves
that the widely renowned Wildcat spirit
still exists “in a great big way.”

Saturday's
teenth

game will be the four

edition of a time ripened. series
that has continued regularly ever since
1922. Davidson never played Duke Ufi
versity hefore 1922 hecause before that
time, that institution was known
ity College—a Methodist establishment.
In that year, however, Mr. J. B. Duke
donated an fund for the

downment of the school, and in his honor

as Trin

enormous en-
the college became Duke University
This colorful rivalry has heen carried
on under three different coaches at Da
vidson and under two at Duke Univer
sity. Coach Grey was coaching the Wild-
cats back in 1922 when the annual con-
test was begun, The Dukes got the jump
on the ’Cats by taking thé first of the
series hy a twelve to nothing count. Going
hack at random and looking into history
for of
the we
fighting; light edition of the Wildeats put
up a terrific battle only to finally sue-
cumb to their heavier foes to the tune
of 12-0. Captain More played a beautiful
game the
Along with

accounts some ‘of the brighter

moments in series, see a

final game of his
Moore, there
other seniors who played magnificent ball
to polish off their colleze grid careers
in fine sytle. They were Tlunt, MeMas-

ters, and Faison.

in career

were three

1924 brought one of the most exciting
The
Dukes were doped by all the experts to

games of the entire series to date

take a smaller and lighter Davidson out-
fit in tow by at least two touchdowns.
The ’Cats ignored the fact that they were

supposed to lose this game and_ sailed
into the Dukes and scored first in the*
heginning of the second quarter, But

then it looked as if the sheer weight and
power of the Devils line was going to
hatter the Wildcats down into total sub-
mission. Tt began to look like the Dukes
hall game early ‘in the third quarter when
the Devils battered down
tired thin Red ‘line for
Then less than three minutes later, with
another sustained march, the Blue Devils
scored again but failed convert for
the extra point. After the kick-off fol-
lowing the second marker, the battered
Wildcats called for time-out. After a few
minutes rest the Wildcats went back into
the game a new team, In the fourth quar
ter, the ’Cats darkened the
pass barrage that good

a weak and

a touchdown.

to

with
for

air a

was two

Cochran Is: Winner OF
Flag Golf Tournament

The Flag or “Tombstone” golf tour-
nament, mentioned in The Davidsonian of
off
shape on the local course last Saturday
While number
than was expected turned
the tournament was a big success, judg-
ing from the interest shown by the par-
ticipants and by requests for a repetition
at an early date.

In this kind of tournament each mem-
ber of the club is allotted a certain num-
ber of strokes; the par of the
(72) plus his handicap, the latter being
enough to give him an equal chance with
the best player. Handicaps are deter-
mined by taking the average of scores
previously turned in and then adding the
handicap indicated by a standard table.

Major Cochran was the winner with
two strokes to go after turning the 18th
hole. Prof. Fulcher came second being
within a foot of the cup on the 18th.
Prof. Mebane, in third place, planted his
flag on the 18th fairway, Mr. Myers,
shooting one of games,
staked out midway on the 14th fairway.
No doubt the work and worry of. pack-
ing to move to Albemarle caused him to

several weeks ago, came in good

afternoon. a smaller of

entries out,

course

his poorest

be so badly off his game.

While the others were shouting “Iix-
celsior” and pressing “forward, — their
strokes gave’ out and their banners were
planted along the “rugged mountainside.”
Those competing were Messrs McClure,
Blythe, Myers, Hegenveld, Cochran,
Black, Fulcher, Hobart, Howard, Mebane,
McGavock, Watts, and Frank Stough.

-AT YOUR DRUGGIST

hard |

|
touchdowns within thelast ten minutes of |
play. The ’Cats put on an exhibition of
pure courage that has never been equaled |
since. It was a team that had to depend

hot on power nor no experienced foot

hall but on sheer spirit and courage. The |
mighty men of Davidson, were out-|
Weighed nineteen pounds per man but

managed to comé out on the long end of
the score, 21-13.

Then the very next year, the 'Cats put
out a better team even than the vear I

fore—in fact it was just good ecnouch

to wallop the Blue Devils all over the
Id for a 26-0 victory. On this team |
Were six. seniors who had_ brillianths

played their final game for \Ima
M iter Arre
mood and Baker stood out in the line-up

\iter this, the

their
Among them, Dick Grey,
and deciding

final game

of the season, the 4,000 spectators rushed

on the field and hoisted every member
of the team onto their shoulders and cat
ried them off the field. |
Then in the next? year, even with six |
of the regular team lost to the Wild-|
cats, Coach Younger did the impossible |
he turned ‘out a state Championship
team that swept aside all opposition in

the ‘state and in the last game of the sea
the Dukes they the
undisputed Champions of the “Old North

son with

became

State.” This year they smashed — thi
Dukes 20-0. Again this year, th Dukes |
were heavier and more powerful hut |
the Younger-coached machine — clicker
with a pass attack that settled the count. |
The combination of Nesbit and Grey |
were doing the ground gaining
Then, down to more recent times

1920, Thad Brock was responsible for a}

game heing “pulled out of the hok It
Was in the final-game of the season and
the ’Cats were playing the Dukes and
the score stood 12-6 in favor of the
Devils. In the dying minutes of the ¢

Thad Brock, an end who did all th
punting for the ’Cats, was called on to
punt from behind his.own goal line. The
ball. was snapped to Brock and being
badly “rushed, he Jit out on a run that
was doomed.to make history at David

son, He ran 102 yards down the sidelin
hefore he ‘was finally brought down on
the Blue Devil’s line, This
brilliant run paved the way for the touch
down that won the game for the ‘Cats

five yard

Furnished with such an inspiring run the
‘Cats almost went wildnand gathered a
pretty badly battered team together just
enough to ram over the winning marker

Here on Saturday, the Dukes will be
after their ninth win over the ’Cats and
the Red and Black machine will be ont
gunning for their fifth victory. The two

teams have tied but once—that was in
1931 when they fought to a scoreless tie
The year that the Devils had their

potential “Rose Bowl” eleven, with lred
die Crawford, All-American tackle, the
sturdy ‘Cats held the
19-7 score.

Blue Devils to a

Trinity College claims to have intro-
duced the first real football in the South,
They beat the University of North C:
lina 17-0 back in 1887. It was the first
real intercollegiate game ‘south ‘of the
Potomac.

It’s impossible to get a college degree
in Italy now without proficiency in mili-
tary science.

“TEAM o10
JUNIOR GOLLE

BLUE DEVILS MENTORS

aR
fa.

Pictured above from left to right

coach; and Eddie Cameron, backfield coach.

)
bk

Un-

Wingate College and Coach
ger’s ‘‘Pros’’ Battle To
Scoreless Tie

All

College

\mericans

The
fought the

Davidson College

Wingate

eleven to a

scoreless tie at Monroe, Friday after
noon, November 1.

The game proved to be listless and
marred by frequent fumbles. In the sec
ond quarter the. Wingate team reached
the Davidson ten vard line due to a Da
lvidson fumble. However. here  Coacl
Unger’s “Pro's” held for four downs,
and the ball changed hands. In the last
bracket, the “B's” reached Wingate’
nine by a series of drives, where they
tossed two incomplete passes over the

voal as the game ended? There were no
first downs made by either team during
|the first half of the
plete passes were hurled by both teams,

game. Many imeom

the All-Americans completing only one
for a gain of about five yards, while Dyll
Nicholson intercepted one of the Win
gate tosses,

There odd
that teek place during the game, Among
Charlie Da
fumbled while

were a number of plays

these was one by Brown,
vidson  half-back,
attempting to kick. The ball rolled hack

who

about five yards where Brown picked it
up and got off one of his best kicks of the
day.

Those men standing out on the I%a-

vidson team were King, Lanier, and Sad

ler, all of whoin shone on the defense.

The average football suit weighs 34

pounds, which is about the we
trotting horse sulky.
ae \

Oxford University (lngland) officials

all

against women students. All degrees at

have. removed virtually restrictions

that institution are now open to men and

women alike,

Sie”

AEE BIG FIVE
EAMS WIN QUT
AGT WEEK-END

U.N.C. Downs N.C. State; Duke
Defeats Tennessee; Wake
Forest Takes P. C.

FAVORITES VICTORIOUS

h-scoring elev

hig!

Carolina's

“PUT UP YOUR DUKES”

State Wolfpack into ca ut
fF. 35-6 lied
ce Vols 19 \\
1 win \
week-end t 1
ery sticcessitl for Big Five
CAROLINA-—Led by their great D
Jacl the Tar Heels sl 1p tet
est. team that Hunk Andersot ha
turned out since his arrival at the W It
stow ibinedeacaens Seam eae LES pack — lait After Montgomery, “had
owed his way to one sco¥e, ¢
are Wallace Wade, head coach; Ellis Hagler, line coach; Carl Voyles, end We nec was held well in ‘check {
@ Ni Y ; quarter Jackson 4 1 pa
Seven Clean Slates Marred ii ea the remaining 20-yands (08
B iL, e e touchdown, This Leta te ish th
te st G ry | | Tr B ttl Fe] eels’ power and their bh ‘ ait ma
vy a ES I u ul on a eS chine roared into action The tt im-
% See aaa, mary showed Carolina burying State un-
'Notre Dame, Carolina and Min-|der an avalanche of five touel pha
nesota Head List Of Un- 5 are expected tov ye
5 ' defeated Elevens t the Vi Nia! ts at
| ae Chapel Hill this Saturday
Headed oby Ohid State's — Searlet NEGRO aes te’: ul
| Scourge, sevet) heretofore undefeated | fresh from their magniicent
: and untied football teams toppled from over Manhattan, played ‘ Rey
Seniors Are Third and Sopho- i" [su line positens. leaving fone rae Se ' sen Gant
mores Bring Up Rear cleven_schools with PE eect Mot cateaad anttersd Av euee
Sea hto now. Notre Dame, California, North}! 5
lhe Freshmen Monday afternoon over- | Carolina, ° Minnesota, Marquet exa uC u Hols t ae uy a L ee a
hauled the high-flying Juniors by a seo Christian, Southern Methodist, Dart \ ni ‘ PS fea = ae eee
of 27-22 and went into a tic with the | oul New York University, Princeton, | * Paige gee, oe Nae: fe
Ses and Syracuse still have spotless record ina’s “Hump” Snyder, and Be wa
Juniors for the lead in the current inter niilecAruie dicinles University of Gal unable to play for the remainder of the
class basketball competition. The Seniors | jf jenia in [os Angeles: Ohio Seay Cathe} gant hdd. Entwhistle, and Barde put
are third at present, with the Sophomores | alice University, Baylor, and Towa re-;or 4 punting exhibition t! L thrilled the
bringing up the rear ceived their first blots last Saturday rowd of aoe is uaa ‘: Bees
The Seniors, captained by Bill) Bell, Notre Dame, in’ the most spectacular i ey uaa a gaaiee oat os nae
: i comeback in recent years, managed to | larged Riddick Viel Mhis wee the
led Off the season by trimming the Soph Hataae Oia Saldcatleesleinecautiinvell Wolfpack journeys to Portsmouth; Va..
omores, coached by Lawrence Reid, 25 for three quartet Nady Weitinse etiavatnadi|tiend Gly That with the V. P. 1, Gobblérs,
18, Downie got eight points for the Sen- the fireworks in the fourth period with who rang up four touchdowns last week
iors, While Doug Neal rang up tive point everal long passes against South Carolina, and the dope
for the Sophomores. The ‘Texas Christian-Baylor contest | Stevs pick the Wolfpack,
The Freshmen won their first tilt in| was supposed to have been the “battle DUKE Phe Blue Devils returned to
an .extra-time tussle with the Trosh|of undefeated teams’ in the South, but (Continued on Page 0)
team winning, 22-18 TY. C. UL trounced the Baylorites 25-0
The third game was the most thrilling | Southern Methodist, another stand-out], Rose Bowl bid. S. M. U. and Texas
Strugele of all with the Juniors finally jfrom the Southwest, took Texas to the] Christian will struggle for the supremacy
heating the lugkless Sophomores, 20-24. | tune of 20-0 of the Southwest, as things now stand,
Gilks scored eight points for the Sopho California encountered a then unde However, there is no telling how many
mores, while Woodward led the Juniors | feated team when it met U. C. lL. A. but] of these teams will be beaten before the
with thirteen points. the Bruins lost their reputation with abend of the season, and some teams which
In the fourth game, the Juniors beat | 14-2" defeat. Iowa mains undefeated, | aye lost only one game may stand just
the Vreshmen 34-19. Three Juniors, | having: heen tied only by Indiana, 6-6 is good a chance ‘as ‘these leaders, It is’
“Mokey” Faison, Hancock, and Arm Notre Dame by virtue of its defeat] till a toss-up!
strong, rang up ten points cach while}over Ohio State becomes probably the eas
Tice scored ten points for the yearlings. | leading team of the country. ° North
The Juniors next defeated the Seniors, | Carolina holds the hopes of the South
41-21 in a onesided game. Hancock, lanky | for a Rose Bowl contender, and Cali -
Junior center, scored fifteen points.) fornia just now seems to be the best of a,
while Hamrick racked up twelve points | the West Coast lot.
for the Seniors. | In the East, Princeton, N. Y. U.. Dart
The Freshmen won a slow game from} mouth, and. Syracuse obviously lead thi CAFETERIA
the Sophomores, 28-18. Tice, Johnson, | field, while Marquette and Minnesota Fj
and Lee starred for the Frosh while] will challenge Notre Dame's rights fot
Gilks and Neal led the Sophomores.
: or =
e
Service With Individual Attention
m 30

DAVIDSON VARSITY LINE

1936 ‘CATS TO MEET DEVILS

According to arrangements which have
been Fred
Blythe, acting Director of Athletics at
Davidson, and Duke’s Athletic Director,

made between Professor

ENID BOWERS

Representative

21—Georgia

Ratcliffe s |

the Wildcat-Blue Devil grid contest for |
next year will be waged in Greensboro’s |
Memorial stadium on the night of Sep-|
tember the 29th under the floodlights. |
The struggle will be the first time the |
| two teams have played in a night con- |
| test, |
= |

|

Send Her
FLOWERS

For the Dances

a

DOOCCODCOCOOOCOOCSOOCOSC00C0NS0 000 cKN)

Thacker’s, Inc.

“A Good Place to Eat”

Welcome Davidson

118 South Tryon Street

Gharlatie NAG: NEXT TO

SAPPS WILDCAT BAR

WELCOME ALUMNI

MAKE THIS THE BEST

HOMECOMING

BY MAKING OUR STORE YOUR

HEADQUARTERS

COLLEGE PHARMACY

JUST AS POPULAR
TOUCHDOWN-TASTE

P.O. AND
