THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 9,

1935

The Dabidsontan

Founded by the Class of 19165

MEMBER

ciated Gollegiat

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are but all i
tions intended for publication must be signed.

Ki Dic WEEKS 60565056 50s 5 hc og aeenteor,
J. A.C. WADSWORTH .. . . Business Manager

STAFF
SERVES Sel Monaging Editor
ing Editor

EDITORIA!
Maagtin BARNETT -
Paut HARLAN -.--
Tom MARCHANT .-

OHN WALKER --- Managing Editor
ARveY GLASS --- -Managing Edit
Lamont Brown --Sports Editor

Enm Bowers -------------------- --Exchange Editor
Casiyte Lewis Feature Editor
Scotty McL#op ----Featwre Editor
G. L. Gutierte ----- =a late Editor
E. F. McPHaw ---..-------------------- Associate Editor
B. L. Rose --- A te Editor

Jack HELiincer Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

J. B. Gosten Asst. Business Mgr.
Vat, CASSELS Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross Asst. Business Mgr.
JS RAC MULLEN -sccubscccheeccocens -Asst. Business Mgr.
R. P. Morrow Asst. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 1935

When ill news comes too late to~te serviceable to
your neighbor, keep it to yourself.—Zimmerman.

DAVIDSON AND THE
SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

Orcs again
the Southern.Conference has failed to admit addi-
tional members to its ranks, and for at least one
more year the number of schools on the roll will re-
main at ten. However, those colleges aspirifig. to-
ward membership in this group were given an en-
couraging outlook for acceptance at the next meeting
of the conference representatives.

The athletic directors from the ten institutions
now included in Southern Conference at their annual
meeting held in Richmond, Virginia, last month gave
particular attention to the question of increasing its
enrollment. by admitting all or a few of the six col-
leges that applied for membership. After consider-
able debating over the matter it was voted by the
group to limit the number of teams in the Confer-
ence to sixteen, and to defer definite action on any
particular schools until the 1935 session.

Even though no place in the league was promised
by the association, six institutions were named as
the first that will be considered when the subject is
again brought up. Two of these colleges are in the
state of Virginia, Richmond University and William
and Mary College; two are in South Carolina, The
Citadel and Furman; and two in North Carolina,
Wake Forest and Davidson. It is hardly practical
to assume that all six of these will be admitted, if

any are taken in at the ensuing convention, but evef}

indication points to the admittance of two or three
of them.

Now, the question arises as to who, if any, will
be accorded bids. It seems that three schools, David-
son, Furman, and William and Mary, are the most
likely candidates.

We, of course, are particularly interested in
Davidson’s prospects.

Survey the facts that have accumulated during the

past five years, concerning this matter; some very
enlightening information is revealed.

Davidson has met, during this time more South-
ern Conference teams than any other non-conference
team. It has engaged just as many as any team in
the conference, and the record the Wildcats have
obtained as to wins and losses is more imposing than

those of several aggregations that are now in’ the
ranks.

The 1935 football schedule shows six out) of nine

games with Southern Conference teams, and, no
doubt, the showing Davidson makes against these
opponents will have a great deal to do with the out-
come of its petition for a place in the Conference,

Despite this possible draw back the only reason
Davidson should be withheld from membership in
the Southern Conference next winter is-that it is
not the will of the present members to enlarge its
ranks, and not because we are not worthy to hold
a position in this association.

‘ WaelyeeB}

NOT “CAN YOU DO IT’?
BUT “WILL YOU DO IT”? A
LTHOUGH

we have been back to school scarcely a week since
the Christmas holidays, we have settled down to the
old routine again and the varied experiences incur-
red during the two weeks vacation now exist only
as memories. The uppermost thought in our minds
now is the dreaded period of examinations.

How much more enjoyable school would be with-
out the month of January. The first two weeks of
it are spent in worried anticipation and procrastina-
tion and the last ten days or two weeks are spent in
the actual “struggling through” with the tests of our

‘previous four months’ work.’ This does not apply

to all, but it does indeed to a majority. Some are
so concerned as to even say that their holidays were
made less pleasant by the thought of examinations
which were to face them so soon after their return
to school. ¥

At this time of the year and before every exami-
nation period we hear numerous discussions as to
why we shouldn't have them; “they are not fair,”
and “they are not a true test of what we really know
about a subject” are statements often heard. But
all arguments of this nature can quickly be dismis-
sed by the fact that if we had studied thoroughly and
prepared daily, examinations would not cause us any
anxiety at all, And everyone knows this-to be true.

However, it is not the intention here to point out
the mistakes of the past. It is an exhortation to look
to the futiite and take advantage of the present.
Many of us have rather poor averages and seeming-
ly a slim chance of passing certain subjects, yet in
most cases it is not too late to remedy this situation.

It is not a case of “Can you do it’? but “Will
you do it”?

There still remains a week before examinations
begin. Why not spend all of your spare during this
week studying hard on the course or courses you
are most uneasy about and thereby prevent, the risk
of having to attend summer school or remain here
during the spring holidays to take a re-examina-
tion? Sacrifice the “bull sessions,’ the shows, and
that week-end trip. Hard work will never be re-
gretted and it will be a source of great satisfaction
after the examinations are over.

This approaching test period will be of particular
significance and bearing to Freshmen and Seniors.
For the Freshmen, it will be their first experience
in college examinations. To the Freshmen we say
study hard and keep that slate clean! The record
you make your first year will have great influence
on your remaining three years. For the Seniors,
these examinations have a direct bearing on gradua-
tion, and every Senior realizes the importance of
that.

We sincerely hope that every student will try hard
and have the best of luck and success on his exami-
nations.

UPON THE SIGNIFICANCE
OF NEW YEAR GREETINGS Ap
HIS time

of the year usually provokes in a thinking person’

a desire for expression in the form of a New Year's
wishes. g

The most of us, the “oi polloi,’ give vent to this
feeling by way of New Year’s Resolutions—danger-
ously incriminating if we intend to keep them, bind-
ing to.conscience if. we don’t intend to keep them.

A rather childish mannerism, some might say,
this custom of “resolving to refrain from a bad
habit, during the coming year.”

Perhaps the form.taken is the objectionable part of
the practice. It does become rather embarrassing
when it comes to carrying it out, and it often be-
comes a burden.

Perhaps if another outlet could be found for this
First of January enthusiasm, if it could be turned
into other channels, it might fill the requirements
of an extremely critical society.

For we must admit to ourselves that we need to be
reminded at times—possibly more often than simply
once a year—that our life and character could stand
some changes in the way of improvement.

What does it mean when someone wishes a friend
a “Happy New Year”? Possibly just what it says.
Possibly the person who is extending the greeting
is happy and wishes to share his happiness with his
friends. Possibly—in most cases this is true—this
is just a stereotyped greeting adopted for the first
few days after Jaunary 1. It carries no meaning
whatever.

To some, however, a “Happy New Year” means
infinitely more than just the phrase.

Under the word “new” in the Standard Diction-
ary, this definition is listed: ‘“‘changed, in essence,
construction, or force, usually for the better.”

Why could this not be what our friends mean
when they wish us “Happy New Year’? Why
shouldn't our greeting carry a force like this? Why
shouldn’t our outlet of New Year enthusiasm take,
this form?

“T wish you a happy New Year” would show true
friendship if it meant, “I wish for you that your
life, your character, may be changed, happily, for the
better, in force, essence, and construction, during
the coming year.”

J. H.G.

“4

“SELECTED PAPERS
of
PHINEAS SPOON.”

THE UTOPIA COMPLEX

Every twenty-four hours, a terrestial
mass had rolled around again on its
axis. Men call this ball of dirt and stone
[en water “the earth.” I’ve never seen
| it.

The physical geographer knows in-
finitely more about it°than I. For them
it has body and form. It is a morpho-
| logical reality in the shape of continent
and ocean masses.

‘Symbols were invented to assist in the
work of understanding. When I look
at the cartographer’s conception of the
thing, the denotation is quite clear. There
it is on the maps—the pictorial bounda-
ries of environment. It is the geographi-
cal representation of the milieu in which
the outline of history is framed. Within
the contours of those lines, all that I
have read about transpired. It is the
world.

But the story of Mankind is half-told
when the map-maker »introduces us to
|the “world.” His physical arrangement
jof terrain and cities explains little that
| we have not before supposed. It is mere-
|ly the projection of a universal scale of
| the familiar environment in which much
| of our waking life has its locale. %

These are the symbols for the material
| things we have seen and felt. Cities and
| states set among rivers, valleys, woods,
jand hills in a realm of place and dis-

|
tance.

|

| The maps describe the everyday prov-
ince of human endeavor, where a dollar
is hard to earn, and fortune is capri-
cious. Where “men must work and
woman must weep,” where rust and moth
corrupt, and thieves “break through to
steal. ,

| But the philosophers have always been
| perched upon the horns of a dilemma.
| ‘There is a dualism in the scheme of
things our theorying has never explained
away.

In a sense, Man is quite as much am-
| phibian as the crocodile. He lives in
|two elements of equal reality. There
| is the world of matter and the realm of
|mind. It is the world outside and the
‘world within.

It is generally agreed that the primary
dynamics of human nature are the “will
to live” and the “will to love.” Add to
these essentials another basic—the “will
to make believe” and the work of ana-
| lyzing the human phenomenon will be
complete. The realm of mind is that
other world in which men pass so much
of their time. It is a principality created
by the “will to_make believe.”

Everything is transcendental in ‘this
other world of ideas. There is a per-
petual moratorium of realities regours;
Anything can happen on those musty
flats of imagination because each man is
his own laws and creator.

It is a place where suppressed desires
can find their wildest realization. They
cannot clash with the rubber circum-
stances of “never-never-land.”

How merciful it was of the Great De-
signer to endow mankind with the facul-
ty of transport into this province of
“sweet supposing” out of the mechanical
world of twelve inches to the foot and
three meals to the day, an avenue of re-
treat has been provided. The magic
casements of the mind open onto fairy
lands accessible to imagination.

Every soul that flies from reality by
this route is a utopist. In his reverie he
is dwelling in that other world—the
utopia-of-escape.

We all have our private utopias-of-
escape. With tiny tots, its the land of
Winken, Blinken and Nod, where gin-
gerbread houses nestle in groves of lolly-
pop trees. In the robust days of later
Childhood, utopia is made of eternal
stuff. Armed with a wooden cutlass
what youngster has not wiled away the
hours of a summer afternoon under the
Jolly Roger in the lusty company of
Treasure Island’s shade?

When the schoolgirl in her ‘teens en-
joys deliverances from mortal danger at
the hands of her plumed knight the
Utopia is essentially the same although
the characters are in other costume. It’s
the same idea of a universal and omni-
potent enabling act putting the quietus on
all stingy: realities.

Consider the humble factory girl.
She buys a round trip dutat to Utopia
on Saturday nights. Mentally she
swoons in the adequate arms of her two-
dimensioned lover on the screen. By
remote control she enjoys the ecstasy of
a glorified love that the prosaics of her
veritable existence deny her. She effects
escape.

These private Utopias, as havens of
retreat, are as wholesome as they are
indespensible. Without them life would
be mere existence, void of colour and
meaning. These castles in the air are
mansions of fancy which house alter
fegos. Unlike ourselves they achieve
that to which we can only aspire. With
impunity, they revel in the delight of
things inhibition denies the fleshy coun-
terpart; they intimately live with dreams
devoutly to be wished... .

; PHINEAS. SPOON.

C_OMPASSING

By Scorty McLrop

POST-HOLIDAY GREETINGS!

Yuletide gives way to Exam-tide for
returning Davidsonians. A week from
tomorrow the’ fretful things start here,
closing the first semester of the 1934-35

session. Hail, Exam-tide!

CAMPUS PERSONALITIES

It’s time to offer the Centennials a be-
lated felicitation on their splendid pro-
gram of festivities as presented during
Sophomore week-end. Johnny Long
served some superb music: and may be
considered a worthy antecedent to Kay
Kyser, our tune-dispenser for Mid-
winter hops.

We were certainly glad when Dr.
Lingle suggested to the student body the
abatement of applause for musical se-
lections played in chapel. ‘Why the cus-
tom ever began is mysterious. It has
not been practiced in previous years, and
must be a freshman innovation. Besides
being out of keeping with the true rev-
erent spirit of the chapel hour, it is a
tiresome nuisance to clap morning after
morning for an ordinary organ prelude
to a religious service. We are indebted
to Dr. Lingle for having it stopped.

Now that the Watts-Georgia excite-
ment has subsided, we wonder if it would
be out of the way to suggest that East
and West dorms institute an intramural
program of athletic rivalry. Make it
an East-West contest, doncherno. Then
if Rumple could scare up a team to play
the barracks, we would have some fun.
Why not:organize a Dormitory Confer-
ence? The winner of East-West com-
petition plays the winner in the Watts-
Georgia fray, and the finals go off be-
tween that team and the victorious squad
of the Barracks-Rumple tilt. Very sim-
ple, and then one dormitory would be
the Campus Champion instead of a one-
game winner. We offer the suggestion
subject to further consideration.

CAMPUS PERSONALITIES

A. J. Porrer: Here we have a man; a
military man with appeal. Stern mili-
tarist outwardly but really a very friend-
ly fellow. Another Barium gift to the
Wildcat Lair. Phi Delta Theta Senior
and an all-round athlete, student, and
friend.

Bos Coir: One of the very few men
who became Phi Bete and O. D. K. at
Davidson. Serious, but not too serious
to be one of the best-liked men on the
Hill. Elected Freshman Adviser. Rooms
in Rumple, seat of many bull sessions.
Hails from Richmond, Va.

Duxke GrAscow: Defeated candidate
in Ugly Contest held here recently. He
lost by a nose. Girls like him for some
reason and he likes them for some rea-
son. Been on the campus one week-end
since school started and still g6ing strong
as ever. Popular, intelligent, clever, and
a good talker. Another Senior among
the Phi Delts. f

OUR
ontemporartes

By Enw Bowers

Washington and Lee

The famous Siamese twins, Viola and
Daisy Hilton, spent December 10th in
the town of W & L. They narrowly es-
caped serious injury when the automo-
bile in which they were riding overturn-
ed. Neither of the twins was hurt.
Employees at the Robert E. Lee Hotel
were completely baffled by the manner
in which they were able to do things at
the same and especially the way in which
they walked through doorways without
the slightest inconvenience.

Isham Jones and his orchestra has
been signed for the W & L costume ball
to be held soon. This event has become
probably the most popular on the South’s
‘social calendar.

Colleginia

“The funniest thing that we have seen
in the ‘United was a college reporter at
Emory College,” said John Gripps, a
member of the Oxford University de-
bating team now touring the United
States. . . . The Budapest University
has purchased an oak tree that is thought
to be 1,500 years old. It weighs 20 tons,
and will be used for experimental pur-
poses. ... At Boston University a psy-
chology professor has abolished note-
taking because he believes such work sub-
stitutes the hand for the brain and offers
a poor substitute for the lecture.... A
notice in the Boston University News
asks all co-eds to keep away from the
football team until after a certain game
and is signed by the coach. ... At the
University of Georgia if a co-ed marries
a man who is not a student of the Uni-
versity she must withdraw from the
school, and if he is a student, then they
both must withdraw from one of three
quarters. ... The women at William and
Mary have an annual manless dance... .
Directors at the University of Oxford
in England once voted not to install
baths in the dormitories, because the stu-
dents only attended school eight months
in a year.... The students at the Uni-
versity of Michigan had mass meetings
in order to protest that school’s ruling
which did not allow Willis Ward, star
negro football player to participate in
the game between Michigan and Georgia
Tech. ... For the first time in ‘seventy
years dancing is to be permitted at
Texas Christian University. ... Dr. Wal-
ter Williams, president of the University
of Missouri, is the only college presi-
dent who has not graduated from col-
lege. . . . The players at Swanee Uni-
versity have a scholastic average higher
than the average for the entire student

fornia at Los Angeles, candidates for
student officers have to be heavily guard-
ed by police to prevent their being kid-
napped by their opponents. . . . Medicine
and engineering are the most popular of
the courses chosen by Brown University
freshmen. . . . / At Denver University
male freshmen are thrown out of foot-
ball games if caught bringing a date
with them. ...

Binty RAveNEL: Popular member of
the well-known “bird-in-the-cage” trio of
Guerrant, Munro, and Ravenel, who al-
ways enliven Pan-Hellenic affairs. Is
eternally bothering the guests of Geor-
gia Arms with his pseudo-music and at-
tempts at dramatic oratorios. Good one
for bull sessions. One of the Kappa

Sig football heroes.

United in spirit and aim

Initiative in Biblical research

Never failing in loyalty to Christ

Onward pressing to universal brotherhood
Neglecting never to follow the Light.
Spiritually-minded; Scripturally-living -
deavoring to uphold His commands
Ministering for the
In scholarship not inexpert
Nearness to truthful interpretation
Always seeking spiritual progress
eaching out in service

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.

Master

Yearning to bring all to Him!

STATIONERY

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

CALLING CARDS

_ Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY
PRINTING CO.

Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, ana of
the DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL *

PROGRAMS

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

