The Dabvidsonian

—_ “9

Founded by the Class of 1915

1935 Member’ 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION ’
must be In the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tlone intended for publication must be signed.

Editor
Business Manager

LAMONT BROWN .
R. P. MORROW, Jr.

EDITORIAL STAFF
--1----Managing Editor
wa------Managing Editor
lances Managing Editor
ceecee Managing Editor
weeeee Managing Editor
caneeee Sports Editor
.--clssociate Editor
veneeee Associate Editor
wtssociate Editor

Jim) Morton
Howett Overton
Harorp Succ
Daymonn Turner .
Joun Winn
| Flarry KuykKENDALL
Martin Baryert ..
Harvey GLass ..-..
Pact Hartas
Tom MarcHANT .... -
Jonn WaAtLkeER

BUSINESS STAFF

----Circulation Manager
ceeeee Circulation Manager
seen Circulation Manager

eenee Advertising Manager
ae eeec ewe nee Collection Manager

Cartes Mauze -.
Birt Swore
Bow VaANcE ...-....
Hoke Rosinson -..
Bu. Hin ....-2..-
Brit Deyerte

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6; 1935

Ewreuses are tools with which incompetents build
for themsclves great monwiments of nothing—Anon.

PARAGRAPHICS....

“Cut that radio down,-is a tune that echoes Le-
tween ‘the Davidson dormitories all too often. We
have only had the privilege of keeping radios in our
rooms for two years, and if some men continue to
abuse the privilege, measures will unquestionably
be taken to remedy the annoyance.

There are enough radios in school for every man,
who ‘so desires, to hear one. Therefore, it is needless
for any man to bother the student body by running
his machine so it can be heard all over the campus.

x *- * *

Davidson’s new church arrangement is certainly
worthy of praise. The array of speakers that have
delivered messages to the students since school
opened has been an unusually inspiring group, and
those yet to come are all of an equal calibre.

By the way, rubber runners have been ordered--

for the aisles, which when installed will do away
with the noise that now prevails when the student
ushers march down to_receive the offering.

x k kk ar

Rufus Morrow, '34, scored, in a very effective
way those few students who tried to interrupt his
talk in chapel Monday morning, by their loud and
continual coughing. Maybe one of them will come
back to Davidson some day and be called upon to
lead a chapel service. That’s doubtful, however.

It isn’t an easy thing to do when everybody is
patient and attentive. ~

HOMECOMING ....

“I often feel myself getting homesick for Dav-
idson. It seems that I am almost compelled to return
to the beautiful old campus and renew my acquaint-
ance with things about the place and once again
sense the thrill of that Wildcat spirit as it exists
nowhere in the world like it does right on the Dav-
idson campus.”

Those words, written in a letter to the editor
from a Davidson alumnus, who is now studying
medicine at a southern university, express in a very
concise way the real spirit of Homecoming Day.
We like to feel that Davidson is HOME to all her
sons, who return for a day not simply to help cheer
the football team on to victory, but to make it a
rendezvous for those “student families” that were
once the real Davidson, and come back home to
enjoy a happy time around the hearth of college
friendship. a

We want you alumni to feel perfectly free to
do just as you please while you are on the campus.

‘It is “your day” and it is our purpose for you to

’ THE DAVIDSONIAN,

make it a pleasant one. If you care to, act just as
those old confederate veterans, who a few years
ago returned to the battleground at Gettysburg, the
very sight of which seemed to carry them back to
those days in July, 1863, when General Lee’s army
fought so gallantly to defend the southern cause, and
dismissing from their minds every other thought,
these noble men ran about the field from hill to hill
sounding the rebel yell as if the battle was actually
raging.

Come back, sons of Davidson, to your alma mater,
where you in years past fought in a struggle for
building life rather than for destroying it, go about
from place to place on the campus reviving experi-
ences, and make the 1936 Homecoming Day the
greatest ever observed.

BEAT DUKE....

BEAT DUKE! is the cry that every Davidson
man should have upon his lips and in his heart.
Alumni are coming back with the sincere hope of
seeing the Wildcats lick the Blue Devils. It can
be done, and, I believe will be done Saturday after-
noon, but not without the one hundred percent
cooperation of the Davidson student body.

Last Saturday afternoon the “Fighting Irish”
from Notre Dame proved that no team is defeated
until the final whistle has blown. The Irish aren’t
the only fighters in this world, and on Homecoming
Day Davidson is gonig to prove that the Scotcli
Presbyterians have just as much pugnacity and scrap
about them as can be concentrated into any six hun-
dred and fifty men in the country.

We are the “Fighting (Wildcats,” let’s show Duke
Saturday what that means, Let’s show them that
Davidson doesn't make those eleven men on the field -
do all the fighting, but that when a team plays us
they've got to lick the spirited backers in the stands,
who never say “die,” as well as the warriors on the
turf.

Davidson is a Presbyterian College, and one of
the fundamental doctrines of the church is that
“what will be, shall be.” Saturday, men of the Da-
vidson student body, WE WILL BEAT DUKE!
AND WE SHALL BEAT DUKE!

DRINKING AT GAMES. ...

Word has come to our ears that certain members
of the student body are displeased with the state-
ment in reference to drinking which has been read
over our public address system at the beginning of
every football contest since the South Carolina game.
There have even been overt charges that college au-
thorities ‘‘railroaded” the issue through.

It is not our purpose to take sides or enter into
any controversy about this measure which has at-
tracted such wide and favorable publicity. However
we would like to point out to such disgruntled ones
that the plan was certainly not “railroaded.” When
it was presented in student assembly the morning of
the South Carolina game, ample opportunity was
granted for discussion. Yet not a dissenting voice
was raised: no one requested more time for consid-
cration: no one had any comments or suggestions to
ofter. And certainly there were very few who did
not raise a hdnd in support of the idea when a’ vote
was called.

This announcement has aroused a nation-wide in-
terest and has occasioned much editorial comment
throughout the South. In the ATLANTA JOUR-

“NAL, CHARLOTTE OBSERVER, and_ other

-daily papers, as well as in the publications of oth:
colleges. Davidson has been commended for her
stand in this respect. Many seem to feel that our
alma mater has set a precedent that will be widely
followed.

It is characteristic neither of a Davidson student
nor any gentleman to indulge in unfair recrimina-
tions behind any one’s back. Those who resent the
action should have spoken out when it was first
taken. Or, failing opportunity, they have surely had

;--time in the ensuing weeks to air their complaints,

either before the administration or the student body
as a whole. They have had their chance and, throngh
lack of courage or intelligence have failed to use it.
Vet them ‘hold their peace!

MOM AND DADS’ DAY....

Parents of college students will be guests of hon-
or at the second annual Mom and Dads’ Day, to be
held at Hasting, Nebraska. In an effort to acquaint
the parents with the institution their children are
attending, the doors of the college will figurativély
be thrown open in extending a cordial welcome. . . .
Plans are well under way for the Fifteenth Annual
Dads’ Day at the Mississippi State College.

SO WHAT?....

Gatekeepers at Ohio State University have a
novel method of deciding whether you’re sober
enough to enter the stadium. If you can wiggle your
thumbs in unison, you’re O. K. Otherwise you can
watch the game from the trees or telegraph poles.
.: . Courses in “Use of Leisure” will be offered
next year at Whitman College. .. . Herbert Hoover,
Jefferson Davis, Benjamin Franklin, Henry Hud-
son, William Penn, David Livingstone, and Ben
Hur are registered at the University of North Caro-
lina this year. j me a

- a —__——-+}-

NOVEMBER 6, 1935

DAVIDSON
off the >
. RECORD

By HAROLD SUGG *

THE WORKSHOP OF
AN IDLE BRAIN

In meandering through the Davidson
Campus an observant cye will notice two
distinct cliques of Davidson men: one
fat, fine and healthy, the other gaunt,
starving and emaciated. The issue be-
tween these two is “Does the meal bell act
as a signal to begin cating or a warning
to proceed to the Boarding House?”
There is little reason to suppose that
manners are so scarce that a signal gong
must be ste®tk so as to give all a fair
chance. 1f the authorities would clarify
this critical matter no doubt there would
be stiff competition for the Physical Im-
provement Cup this spring and—if it
means anything—a more healthy column
would grace this page.

Incidentally we know not a more mis-
directed attempt at luxury than stopping
the Sunday breakfast bell. For this
peaceful columnist, the supreme pleasure
in life is ‘to hear the Sunday bell and
then turn over in disdain and go back to
sleep.

INSIPID ODDITIES

A person who doesn’t wrench his face
and gurgle gibberish garbles when hear-
ing a pun. . . one who uses a lapboard
without writing his name thereupon . . .
a picture-taking without the “bust the
camera” joke ...a male quartet without
“Shortnin’ Bread”... an audience that
doesn’t go in ecstasy over meaningless
popular encores. N

Davidson Needs: A paved walk from
the library to Main St., past Shearer and
Elm Row. ‘This is a pitiful gulley and yet
one of the most frequented on the cam-
pus. Better lighting at lectures; there: is
always too much light behind the speaker.
Applied Math. Classes will contribute to
the welfare of humanity if they will cal-
culate which is the shorter route from
the “Y” to Georgia: by Rumple or by the
gym.

CHARLOTTE

Calumnist broke down ‘Saturday and
saw a stage show. Charles Malone, . Al
Cade and Martin Barnett—again with his
camcra—were on the bald head row.
Must be a good annual this year. Jerry
Harris and Jack Somerville also returned
to the campus with cricks in necks. One
of the better ones we heard was a song

a dago by.” Speaking of the War, we've
heard_a lot about jingoists turning youth
into cannon fodder. It seems that Musso-
lint is making the cannon the fodder of
the Italian people. . . Well, where he
leads us... .

. Other Charlottean activities of the
weck saw Joe Dees, cradle-robber; Tred
Purnell, Mokey Faison, Bill Brown and
Graham S. Squires at the Hallowe'en
Brawl Thursday. Later in the week, Bill
Downie, Tom Harris, Harvey Johnston
and Joe McConnell rode over. Yvonne so.

CAMPUS PLUTOCRAT
NO. FOUR

“Prosperity,” says Cokey Branton,
head of the Pan-Helleni¢*Council, “is like
big dance bands for Davidson. Always
just around the corner.” He says the
Council is planning bigger things than
ever before. Last year they planned on
Kassels, Kyser and Jones. This year they
plan on Gray, Kemp and Lombardo. Who
will play for Midwinters? The answer to
that momentous question is the Minnea-
polis Symphony Orchestra. Or Goldman's
band.

INCIDENTALS

Salty Peters is a graduate professor ‘in
the Heinkle school of dancing; Elmore
Holt is learning quickly by mail. Mal
Grimes and Chas. Thompson went to
bring the moon over Kings Mountain
Saturday. Watts suggests that The Geor-
rgia~Bald Club -is losing hair worrying
over the Geo.-Watt8 game. Maybe so, but
the battle cry of the Club is “Quick,
Henry, the Fitch!’ Johnny Mosely calls
his girl small pox because he has a
fascination for her. The campus bright-
ens somewhat with the appearance of
Chubby King ‘and his new orchestra.

CHEWET ‘

As jubilant as a Deans letter. A joke
you hate to admit you caught the point
to. Said a little girl to King D. Hill:
“You can’t fool me. I saw that nose mask
in the 5&10.” Carl Carlson prophesied
that all Davidson would fall in love with
Madame Gallipioli.of the Circus. Henry
Lyons recently of Tennessee is now from
Georgia or any other state. I won't dance.
That's not the question, Lady, that’s not
the question. d :

4 Georgia. .

Hold your breath, dub! Scientists at
the University of Iowa have discovered
that the better golfers hold their breath
while making a shot. Sharpshooters like-
wise, professor.

dedicated to Haile Selassie: “Never let.

~~ AROUND WASHINGTON

- ‘By ARNOLD SERWER
(Associated Collegiate__Press—€orre-
spondent)

‘N

Washington, D. C.—A repérter who
used to work on The New York Anieri-
can told me this story, down to the last
detail, and I am passing it on for what
it is worth, just as I heard it.

The reporter, who is a reliable and re-
sponsible person, was an eyewitness at
the scene. To my mind it is an interesting
sidelight on the makeup of two of our
best known national figures, ‘William
Randolph Hearst and Arthur Brisbane.
Also, it points a moral to the effect. that
one must never stoop to recover a fallen
sweet, not only because the sweet may be
germ-covered because of its fall, but
hecause at the time of stooping it might
turn out that Mr. Hearst and Mr. Bris-
bane would like to pass... ..

One raw, wintry afternoon several
years ago. a copyboy in the city room of
The New York American, finding that
he had all of ten free minutes to himself,
decided to spend the time in getting and
cating a piece of candy from the stand
just inside the entrance to the building.
He had the money in his pocket, and the
craving for candy he had been born with.
the true sign of a genuine copyboy. He
went downstairs to the candystand, a
faint smile of anticipation on his face,
his head—chocolate filled, so to speak.

At the stand he spent a long time in
weighing the merits of gumdrops versus
rum toffee, and then reverting to his
original idea, hovered undecided between
a Hershey bar and a bar of Nestle’s choc-
olate, Finally he bought an O Henry.
Carefully he rolled back the paper wrap-
pers, and holding it in his fist, as a child
holds a half peeled banana, bit heartily
into the candy. Chewing happily he
walked idly to the door.

Tt was a beautiful day, he thought?
West Street was three inches deep in
snow and sleet. The wind rushing down
the street jabbed cach passerby viciously
in the nose, turning it blue with cold.
Put still, he thought, looking at his candy,
t was a beautiful day.

A limousine of enormans proportions
was approaching. He glanced at it, then
down at his Bar again. Turning to go in-
side he took another bite. Three or four
idlers around the doorway, shifting their
regard from the boy, turned to look at

the limousine which had just stopped in
front of the building.

As they watched, a chauffeur in a
smart greatcoat got out and hastened to
open the rear door. Out came a large
bear followed by another one, They
straightened up and became two men in
enormous fur coats. Majestically they
steamed toward the entrance, their breaths
turning to clouds of vapor in the frosty
air.

The idlers hastily made gangway_ for
the fur coats, guessing instinctively who
was in each. The coats stepped through
the doorway, stalked toward the elevator,
and stopped! There wads an obstruction :
in their path.

The boy was the obstruction. A second
before, in seeking for a new hold on his
candy, he had lost control of it and it
had fallen to the floor in the path of the
approaching Mr. Hearst and Mr. Bris-
bane. Unaware of their approach, or as
a matter of fact of anything but his
fallen candy, he stooped over to retrieve
it, stooped and stopped two of America's
most eminent journalists. Stopped them
dead in their tracks!

Tf the Japs had, at that moment as Mr.
Brisbane has been suggesting for years
they might, appeared over New York
City in an aerial raid, he would not have
shown half the surprise that he did at
sight of the boy in his path. Mr. fHearst's
face on the other hand merely assumed
an expression of inscrutability. What
went on hehind those massive features no
one will ever know exactly, but the event
that followed swiftly is evidence that Mr..
Hearst was fashioning a Jovian thunder-
bolt and that the moment was pregnant
with fateful meaning for the copyboy.

He waited, while the boy recovered his
candy, and then as the boy looked up,
gave him a ponderous glance. Turning he
stepped into the elevator and with
Mr. Brisbane was conveyed aloft. The
hoy stood openmouthed, looking after
them, his jaw slack, his eyes wide with
fear.

In the city room Mr. Hearst summoned
the editor. He described the boy. The
editor admitted the boy was an employee
of the paper and wearily sick at heart,
sent another copyboy after the offender.

And there in the city room, with Mr.
Brisbane looking on, Mr. Hearst loosed
his thunderbolt. He fired the boy who
stooped for a bar of candy.

”
“Compare The NEWS

From DAVIDSONIANS
e e « of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Wofford Terriers battle Wildcats here
Saturday. . . “Red and Black Masquers”
present their first play, “The Perfect
Alibi,” on the fifteenth of November. . .
‘The Yowl,” Davidson's néw humorous
magazine, will appear soon. . . Freshmen
will have cake race Friday... Plans for
great improvements in college library
made. . . Twelve honorary fraternities
issue fall invitations. . . “Y” deputation
goes to Banner Elk... Mac McClure was
chief story teller while there. . . Ninety-
two men report to call for, '31 rifle team.

. .Six men tapped for O. D. K. at fall
Tap Day service. . . Delegates from local
school publications attend press conven-
tion in Greenville... V. M. I. defeats
Wildcats -with score of 6-0. . . Juniors
take lead in class basketball... Wildkit-
tens play State yearlings Tuesday.-: .
Davidson tennis team defeats Wake For-
est 8-0... J. B. Fleece speaks at “Y"
vespers. . . Glee Club plans several fall
trips... Beta Theta Pi’s are campus foot-

ball champions, .—. Mr. J.-B. Johnston,

of Barium Springs will talk at vespers
Sunday.

TEN YEARS AGO

Rev. Jesse C. Rowan. pastor of Tirst
Presbyterian Church in Concord, N. C.,
and president of the Alumni Associa-
tion, delivers main address at Davidson
College Day. . . College reaches an en-
rollment of 638 students, breaking all
previous records. . . Norris, Inc., of At-
lanta, Ga., to give Norris Prize to out-
standing student athlete, who will. be
elected by popular vote. . . Charlotte to
be scene of coming battle with Hampden-
Sydney Tigers. . . Game to decide south-

-ern Presbyterian football champions. . .

Cold, misty weather reduces campus
spooks on Hallowe’en night. . . Wildcats
defeat State Wolfpack in thrilling Home-
Coming Day grid classic with score of
9-0. . . Fred Smith, Harold Burke, and
Harllee Branch of the ‘“Davidsonian”
staff will attend North Carolina Collegi-
ate Press Association Convention.
Davidson has representation at World
Court Conference held at Duke. : .
Zupke Quartette presents Russian music
as first concert of the Lyceum series
opens. Wildkittens down Duke Fresh-
men 7-0... Dr. Arbuckle and family at-
tend centennial of church in Decatur,
. Freshmen will meet Furman
yearlings. . Junior and Sophomore
teams win in class basketball. . : Intra-
Mural sports to be inaugurated on cam-
pus this week. . . Forensic council ar-
ranges debates for varsity and fres%man

teims>~ Dr.-C. F~Myers conducts fall
“y" meeting. .. Golf course in fine shape
for fall tournament.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Davidson downs Citadel! in thrilling
contest with score of 27-13... Company
“D” wins in first R.O.T.C. inspection. . .
All students from C. K. Brown to D. F.
Mahood were seen strutting about the
campus in their “Sunday-go-to-mecting”
clothes during photographic week.
Inter-Collegiate debating preliminaries
held. . . St. Clare Sisters score big hit
with student body. . . Flag is to fly at
half-mast next Sunday by order of Pres-
ident Wilson. . . College to observe Ar-
mistice Day. . . Elon and Trinity Duke
falf before Davidson tennis team, but
Wake Forest wins. . . Juniors defeat
Seniors in class basketball. . . Davidson
golfers defeat Salisbury. . . Band per-
forms before Queens College students. . .
Wildcats mect South Carolina Saturday.

.. Military section of annual to be in-
creased. .. Dr. C. M. Richards speaks .
-on-—“Christ—our—Champion.” . . Dwight
Chalmérs gives practical talk at Y. M.
C. A. vespers. .. Eumenean Society holds
preliminary debate.

Philanthropic Literary
Society Holds Meeting

The weekly meeting of the Philan-
thropic Literary Society was held Tues-
day evening, October the twenty-ninth, in
the Philanthropic Hall to conduct the
usual weekly program.

At this meeting, the following officers
were elected to serve for the next three
months: G. A. Flornbeck, president;
W. E. Black, vice-president; H. L. Har-
key, secretary: R. H. Lindsay, treasurer;
D. M. Jones, first critic; and F. S. Fur-
ness, second critic.

Other imporatnt business included the
selection of a program committee to con-.
sist of Black, Lindsay, and Harkey, and
an entertainment committee to consist of

Black, S. S. Henry, and.Fred Furness.

A smoker is scheduled for the next
regular meeting,” which will be held on
November the fifth.

HOOD SPEAKS IN CHARLOTTE

Dr. Frazer Hood addressed the Pied-
mont Teachers Regional Association on
the subject “Relation of the eight-month
School Term to College Entrance.”

This meeting was held in Charlotte
on Friday. Dr. Hood was elected Chair-
man of the group on Higher Education
at this meeting. |
