8

_THE DAVIDSONIAN,

NOVEMBER 6, 1935

Rev. Peter Marshall
Concludes Autumn
Vespers

(Continued from Page 7)
was voiced by Robert Lindsay, to which
Mr. Marshall replied that he was glad
to be on the campus and of help to the
students. He then began to speak on the
everlasting gospel. He said that Chris-
tianity was not old but eternal: It is based
on the everlasting Word, atonement, and
need. The means
Christ, and there are no new

for salvation are by

fads
As for the world’s

and
alterations in the way

having practiced Christianity for nine l
teen hundred years, he said that he did
not think it had done so for twenty min-
utes. He made a final call to accept the

love of God by the one means, faith.

by

Duke

Davidson Plays
Duke In Annual

the Red and Black squad, and Saturday
the players should be in good shape

Duke’s two losses this season have been
somewhat forgotten in the 19-6 Tennes-
see comeback. The Devils outplayed the
Vols, and’ every Duke man had a’ prom
inent part in the tilt. Playing offense with
excellent blocking and tackling and little
deception, the

\lex
le

throughout the game
Jim Johnson, and Ward were among the
luminaries, mostly
gagement and may be

Saturday morning in time to get sufhi-
ciently warmed up. Although they are
favored, the Wildcats will make them
fight for any score.

Gridiron Clash

Southern Hero
Was Professor In

Old Davidson

(Continued from Page 7
in-law quite often. Hill and Jackson har-
bored a mutual feeling of friendship from
then through the Civil War.
Upon one visit of “Stonewall” Jack-
son's to the home of his sister-in-law he
found Professor Hill ill with an attack

(Continued from page 4)

touchdowns
(@)s

team scored

ander and Hackney Liana,
of grippe. It became necessary for Hill

to

ft end, was easily outstanding

West, Parker, Capt get someone to substitute for him in
his math classes. It is believed that Jack-
the

expected to star

veterans, of en-]} son served in this capacity for two weeks

during the illness of Professor Hill.

This team was the first state champion
team that Davidson ever had. They won
the championship by defeating Carolina
6-0, twenty-five years ago.

A reunion of these men was held in
1930 at which time all of the living mem-
hers except two were here. Those who
attended that reunion and Homecoming
ame were: Coach Floyd Simmons; Man-
ager J. R. Barron of Charlotte; Dr. De-
Witt Kluttz, captain, Washington, N. C.;
B. T, Neal, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. J. T.
Pharr, Cass, W. Va.; Rev. J. R. Phipps,
Pollocksville; FE. L. Booe, Kennedy,
Tex.; Rev. Smiley Williams, Welch, W.
Va.; Rev. W. A. Nicholson, Pineville;
W. M. Shaw, Fayetteville; J.C. Cushion,
Huntersville; R. C.
S. C.; Lunsford Richardson and J. Max
F, Erwin, Flor-
Eugene Alexander, Man-

Hamer, Hastover,
Hendrix, Greensboro; S.
ence, S.C;
chester; D.¥A. McQueen, Jacksonville,

which includes the stream of conscious-
ness.

The second main problem was that of
being. This word brings up the question
of “what does it mean to exist?” This
enters somewhat into the field of meta-
physics of which a good many people do
not have a clear conception. There are
three divisions of being, which are: na-
ture of one’s self, nature of the world.
and the nature of God,

The nature of one’s self is not known
to anyone. If this problem is solved, a
metaphysical will have been
solved. The nature of the world is thought
hy some people to be matter but. these

problem

people are not able to account for the
mind and some think it is the mind but
they cannot account for the mind. Dr.
Walcott defined the
“unconscious

being
The

universe as

poetry of the soul.”

nature of God goes into theology and

example of the former is buying a hat
and of the latter is giving the money for
the hat. Therefore many things have
both contributory and immediate values.

The speaker address by
stating he hopes and thinks that the phi-
losophy of today will be the common
sense of the future although the present
philosophy is different from that of the
past ages.

Dr. Walcott was introduced to the au-
dience by Dr. T. W. Lingle, Davidson
College professor of history. Dr. Lingle
referred to Dr. Walcott as one of his
oldest and best friends. A graduate of
many universities both home and abroad
and also the author of a number of popu-
lar books.

closed his

H. M. Johnston

Statesville, the squad of fifty will arrive

iurvaceuourosoaturrvecacacavemveeesraceeeoveveerogm sae rtagtaceasoacetveenenouracecoenneasvestapcnaacraseuvrnauocusyonneenet

SPORTS STACCATO lame else Hackney, a eltan ge sur “Major” Hill served in the Confeder Fla; E. H. Graham, Goldsboro; Dr. hile’ Way Hot taeH Upto: any. aeeantely
prise, will vie with “Ace” Parker forfate Army with Ge n Jackson He was}, $. McCants, Winnsboro, S. C.; Quay, | the Pa ofc ’
(Continued From Page pecaatit ela i Else a ib Satelit d in the Army of | Williford, Gastonia; Dr. D. A. Biggers, The last problem was that of value
OTT A PEGE Y 3 ' = ren Facing a. slightly heavi team the | North Virginia. Upon his death Gen. Hill] Rock Hill, S. C.; and Rev. W. D. Wolfe ; ae 7 : ze as
seen three of Davidson’s games and tells , : Roc ill, 5. C.; and Rev, W. D. Wolte,) hich one writer has called the greatest
me that Paul/Pittman fumbl much Wildcats expect to start much the same] was laid, to rest in the Davidson ceme-|‘Pellico Plains, Tenn hi t in th fi t I ace F G i
1 De AMY Ar Hadith SS SO UCR iia erred went sHadel: encounter ihe ; i t : achievement in the nineteenth century ot ane rocerl1es
he offsets his long runs.” aa aa v4 ais , He Pua os an PTET eT a a philosophy. here are many different y
Mr. Scoggins will have cause to \ Ge aan ; a Ps a re a a ae f ‘ ; State Titlists Philosophic Lecture theories held by many people concerning Ph 20
; arborough, sand Gorbin may be first t 7 y
resent those words Saturday. biny, Versatile Paul Piteman, often a To Ch Cc Given By Long values. One philosopher says that there one
Phe Wildcat squad, aftér an easy|— ss of Davidson—attack, will be Oo eer ats Is] d Prof. is a need of differentiating between im-
week in which workouts were almost a] // : ss Satsee Naat sian roressor med ictervaltiea and: inmiedintesal \
depended upon for booting and tricky ‘ ji . ediate values, “An
pleasure and in which the boys ap-|., Will; Gate 1 Yor (Continued from page 4) —-- -
peared full. of spirit, is settling down t see ay ate os pile : fs f eh welt ~tto come to the Homecoming game, and (Continued from Page 7) 2 =
a hard grind now. . . you can bet your a eager fai: Seal busectictes LM dications are that a large number will] mind could not be considered copies of
agains tadel. Cathey’s consistent work |, ‘ ; ;
boots. Gene McEver, who has always had AB un rete a Ws i Ne be present. These men will be seated at} things in the real world. As an exam-
atl ackle make him valuable so F ‘
it in for Dt bee he is a Burts Me clong eas special table at the alumni luncheon | ple the speaker used the smell of a rose, Best Wishes
former Vol star, can be expected to drive] \,... 4) ns parry Saturday and will probably have special] which could not be considered a copy. H
; pa ri ‘ ; Windham will be after the Pa ‘ aay
the ‘Cats this week after] i seats at the game. lhe third sub-head was pure empiricism
Duke's “defeat of Who |S ee _ Fora
tense) Niney The game will be Duke's second Big] ¢
: ae mala a Ge Hee \TaInie. Elente Five contest and I avidson's third. Car-
“According tg George Mathis, Honte-[oi tend of state ad De a Ate tie Game DINE 6t the VICTORIOUS HOMECOMING
Parl ‘ “ present. Davidson is next with Wake H
arke aoe C1 t ear . + ”" 1 ’
wee fase gions soe Te Oe {2 WOODEN BOWL DINING ROOM
anc e expect the whele game to be
tise eet e toe Due : “lteam that has won five and lost two
a a eee 28 Wo auth St, CHARLOTTE SOUTHERN 5c& 10c STORE |
; e n. 5 ; 5 3
aaa ihe froshod fac ‘ ae that of two apiece in wins, losses and
Tr cu a c 2 ° . . .
ties. av 3 2
SEVOrUl ls HaIt WaelicAler being en Lg ERAT RTI ST Davidson Students and Alumni Cordially Welcome |
+ ike, agal le cu co. at- .
told they couldn’t go in until they : TTY: Hire Hat We Appreciate Your Patronage
had licked them, the “Pro’s’’ just se a RE tae aay na eae
GHRIRAUSTR EC eek acd) crallopan | Ney £ PRUE, Basses and Parkers, kicking Phone 2-1810 Jane Renfrow Browne, Mgr. Beat Duke Beat Duke
eve sieueel ite ait i an in their visit. Spending the night in 3
ro i y ut quit. U
oO

agernaenerorvecocvusranenrvvoenoenasveenvavocetertnevtiranaciistaersesasonseet

Among The Greeks

(Continued from Page 7)
started for’the pledges. “Cokey” Branton
attended the Duke-Tennessee game Sat-
urday. The Freshmen painted the porch

last week.

PHI DELTA THETA: The usual
feed was held Sunday night. Brothers
Carlton Chapman, Johnny Allen, Dan

Griffin, and Dennis Myers went to At-
lanta and Gainesville, Ga, for the week-
end. They attended the “Tech’—Vander-
bilt game. Plans for a banquet for Home-
coming are being made and a large num-
ber of alumni are expected.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON: The N. C.
Epsilon Chapter celebrated its Founders
Day with a program in connection with

ay night. Professor Fulcher

}

gave a talk upon the of the fra-
ward told of the Pyra-

club was the bes

listory

Alumni down
Powell Majors, John
ick Sample, Dr. Parker, and
IDE, Ertel WWGdy, I, 18k,
Gwynn were alsb present. After the pro-
feed fraternity
songs were sung. Brother Wiley

went to t

Thompson

Jimmy Trotter.

gram and the several
sradiey
1is~-home in

Walker Harper

home in Augusta, Ga.

th

Whittakers for

week-end visited his

Alston Speaks On
The Modern

Mood

ined from Page
out of our endeavors; and—it-is-moving
in our economic system and | 1

cockpit out of which

Europe a dangerous

may come tl that will

the world ablaze. Confusion, almost
of us are confused and it

today’s expert's are also conf

lusionment, mz
world has che
the
necessar} Christ *.» Reverend
Austin quoted H. G. Wells, “The yout!

yr great Crt

of Great Britain and Fri are burnt
out,” show how this Nusionment
affected the young people. Austm ‘further
stated that the youth of America are

a be

heart for work

for

dwagon and

e of futility, we

nave ne

waiting

fect

that our efforts. prayers, donation
preachings are futile. Low
Temperature, we are alm i

the impl ions of the Gospel. Selfish
Individualism, our every effort to build
a just social order in the country en
counter selfish interests. Restlessness, di
vine discontent is a large part of rest-
lessness. God is making us discontent

with everything that is contrary to the
mind of Christ.

The Reverenr Mr. Austin showed that
Christ conquered the world by releasing
a new power for living. In closing he
stated that Christ matches our fear with
great faith, confusion with way to satis-
faction, disillusionment with energy for
crusades, Spiritual Temperature
with overflowing plentitude, our selfish
individualism with his manner or model
for living, and lastly restlessness with

Low

leadership—the leadership of Christ,

In a single day people from ten different
states visited our Chesterfield factories.

8,200 visitors during the past year saw
Chesterfields made.

© 1935, Liccerr & Myers Tosacco Co,

thy

Siileufy
do you do thal ?

Vi ell, to start with, we take tobacco

no harshness or bitterness.

THEN AS A SECOND STEP—
We blend this home-grown tobacco
with spicy, aromatic Turkish tobaccos
from across the seas. These Turkish
tobaccos, you may know, have a flavor

and fragrance entirely different from

our own.

AS A THIRD STEP—
These tobaccos are cross-blended—
welded together—the best way we've z

found to get a more pleasing flavor

and a better taste in a cigarette.

from our own Southland — mild ripe
tobacco with lots of natural flavor but

THAT’S WHY CHESTERFIELDS
ARE MILD AND YET
THEY SATISFY

