THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24,

1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER

legia

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN .......... + Editor
YX. A.C. WADSWORTH ... . Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
UTM eMORTION: Gussdiudascodudscccatoucues Managing Editor
Howett Overton -Managing Editor
Haroip Succ -Managing Editor
DayMonp TURNER --Managing Editor
JoHN WINN -. -Managing Editor
IIARRY, KUYKENDALL 22-3 one eeue Sports Editor

Martin BARNETT -- -Associate Editor

Harvey GLass --- .-Associate Editor

PAULTIARLAN Uabatedtonsanccauctsasaua Associate Editor

TOMO MARCHANT: caccdcccesdcususcicanas Associate Editor

JOHN AWALRRR ‘ackeeucuvdisasunucususacs Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

J. B. Gosten-- --Asst, Business Mgr.

Vat CASSELS -
Tom Ross
J. S. McMutten
R. P. Morrow

--Asst. Business Mgr.
--Asst. Business Mgr.
. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 1935

4
NEW ORDER
ASSUMES RESPONSIBILITY
% W ITH

this issue the\new staff formally assumes charge
of The Davidsonian, and in doing so it senses most
keenly a tremendous responsibility that must be born
during the coming year, but at the same time there
is a feeling that a vast field of opportunity lies: in
wait for us journalistic neophytes to conquer.

It is, of course, appropriate that the incoming
regime sing a tune of praise to the predecessors who
have created its responsibility, and this year the out-
going staff, and most particularly the retiring editor,
kK. D. Weeks, merits utmost laudation.

As editor, kK. D, pioneered profitable movements in
practically every department of the paper. He intro-
duced news print into the make-up and began the
use of news paper, both of which have tended to
give the Davidson weekly a real journalistic ap-
pearance.

In addition to these technical changes he intro-
duced certain new features, such as a column,en-
titled ““Compassing the Campus”, and another called
“Our Contemporaries”, which have made the pub-
lication a more interesting one.

For a crowning*event to all other improvements
we see K. D.’s daring and courage manifest in his
blazing a trail that has led to a freer press for
Davidson. He was willing to jeopardize his position
as editor of The Davidsonian in order that a less
restrained course for the expression of student opin-
ions might be found in its pages.

In these and similar accomplishments of diligent
forerunners the new personnel finds the sources of
its unexempt-from duties.

Formidable as this responsibility may appear there
comes a shining ray of consolation in the many ad-
vantages and opportunities that accompany the edi-
torial control of a college paper.

The motto of The Davidsonian is and will con-
tinue to be “For a Better Davidson”, which means
that its pages will always print the things that are
believed to be conducive toward showing ourselves
and those Who live without the bounds of our
campus that Davidson is ever growing and that only
time will retard this growth.

This motto, of course, doesn’t have to be exempli-
fied simply in the news stories that make up the
paper, but the Editorial page is always free for
beneficial usage. We want The Davidsonian to con-
tinue to be the written voice of Davidson; available
to its faculty, its students, and its friends.

So in assuming the Editorial portion of The Dav-
idsonian for 1935-36, the new Editors reencourage
a more spirited support from the student body, and
reinvite all interested persons to make use of the
Davidson weekly publication as,a means through
which any constructive ideas might be expressed.

T HE Stu-

dent Body doubtless experienced a feeling of admira-
tion and tinges of regret when one by one, the old
officers gave way to the new on the rostrum in
Chapel, Monday.

Several men, elected one short year ago, now
complete a brief experience in leadership. The re-

STUDENT ADMINISTRATION
FINISHES EPOCHAL YEAR

» Business Mgr.

sults of the past administration is a compliment to
the personnel of the Student Body and an indication
that self-government, when carried on by an intelli-
gent group, can succeed. Such a lesson is no small
one in the days of Huey Long, Father Coughlin and
Hitler.

Lesson number two is a more directly applicable
one. An axiom has been disproved. It has been
common comment that since Student Body votes
are based on the good-naturedness, appearance and
various external marks of the candidates, nothing is
ever accomplished. These seven men gave this the
lie by doing something.

Thus they leave a challenge to the incoming ad-
ministration. It was much easier—and certainly
much safer—to do nothing, to acquiesce, to accept
the status quo, to worship their ancestors. But
rather than merely grace the school with a good-
natured compliance, they did something.

The question then arises: “Who loves Davidson
the most ?’"—he who rests content and swallows it
all, or he in whose love is intermixed a desire for
betterment? These seven men who soon will be re-
leased from this sheltered environment, bearing the
stamp of Davidson College, have given us an
answer.

They have demonstrated that a campus office is
something more than an honor. They have taken
these offices as opportunities for self-development
and for ‘college improvement. And so they leave
Davidson themselves better men and Davidson en
route to becoming a better place.

Meanwhile we honor them and fearfully prepare
for the day when we shall be thrust out of this tissue
wrapping paper and also begin to make faces at the
world.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS
AND THEIR CHILDS PLAY Al

HE con-
sistent childishness of Davidson students is amazing.
It seems impossible for them to reatize that they are
now college men, not prep school lads, nor inmates
in some state sanitarium, but MEN, who should be
graduated from all infantile characteristics.

The particular act which inspires this editorial
is the indecent draping of trees and wires along
dormitory row last Friday night. To any visitor
who might have seen that display Davidson would
have appeared most unfavorably, and the stranger
would probably go away with the impression that
it is no place for sensible men to ptirsue their edu-
cation, And so it reflects upon the entire student
body, whereas only a few of the boorish element
is responsible.

Had this been the first time such high school
practises expressed themselves it would not be quite
so bad, but these things occur several times every
year, and even once is enough to make a very un-
pleasant impression upon outsiders. ’

It is, of course, perfectly clear that college men
must have fun the same as anybody else, but when
it manfests itself in such very crude ways as the
Friday night affair was, it falls into the category of,
what ‘abnormal psychology would term an act of
regression; the opposite of progression: Certainly
we don't want any Davidson students getting back
to the place that they will have to be fed with a
bottle, and followed around by a nurse.

So let this be-an-appeal to -you-as MEN to dis-
card all of these immature, unbecoming practises,
and express your fun in a more subtle fashion, and
in a way that will not cause disgraceful reflection
upon yourselves or your college.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

The University of Virginia (Charlottesville) re-
cently organized a police corps with two divisions,
one for the protection of the students from theft
and the other for the protection of college property.

While working in the Tulane University Medical
School (New Orleans, La.) dissecting laboratory, a
student discovered his father’s head.

At Purdue University (Lafayette, Ind.) a society
known as “The Stray Greeks” has been started for
transfer students who were members of Greek letter
organizations not represented at Purdue.

Exactly 271 students, oyt of 405 questioned at
the University of West Virginia (Morgantown),
favor capital punishment.

EXPERIMENTS TO BE TRIED

There will be three more issues of The David-
sonian this school year, and in them signs of experi-
ment will be seen. It is always difficult to get the
various departments organized exactly as the editor
deems they should be, so this period of trial and
error is necessary in order to iron out wrinkles and
discover which parts shall be discarded-and which
retained. : £ ;

If anybody feels that he has a suggestion to offer
that might be helpful, the editor will be more than

glad to receive it. i

“Phewey,

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

A BOUQUET FOR MR. REDHEAD

Spring Services, concluded last Wed-
nesday by Rev. Redhead, were effective
because of the minister’s sincerity and
frankness in interpreting Religion to meet
Youth’s problems, He looked at problems
thru Youth’s own glasses and discussed
questions without the stiff aloofness
from which we often suffer.

A HOWL OF AMAZEMENT

Followed the news that rushing
‘season this year would again last
only five normal days. After the
hard feeling, mud-slinging, broken
pledges and protests that resulted
from last year’s campaign, stu-
dents ‘had taken it for granted that
such a short period would never

be used again.

Five formal dates divided among eight
fraternities would mean that many new
men would see a fraternity only once
and some not at all. And by the results
of a few hours observation, discolored
by the sweetest of sugar-talk and the
bitterest of mud, the poor Freshman
must choose much of his environment
for his college career.

A short rushing season from the fra-
ternity’s standpoint is about as safe way
of choosing as putting the names of the
new men in a box and letting each lodge
draw its usual number of men, And the
scholastic work of the Freshman would
certainly be hurt if after his blind choice
he found that he did not fit in with his
chosen group.

We are sure that all concerned
will reconsider this action and that
all will join to make rushing sea-
son more of a period of observa-
tion, and free competition—and
less of a Liars’ contest.

AS MELANCHOLY AS A SATURDAY
NIGHT ON THE CAMPUS

Very few of the local socialites strayed
much further than Charlotte this past
weekend and bull sessions in the dormi-
tories proved: the prevailing diversion.
Mr. Stough was very entertaining with
a stirring serial, “The Lost City,” a
thrilling melodrama that kept one’s heart
in the throat. Bruce Gordon, ye olde
heroey, goes to Africa to stop some
demon from blowing up the universe.
Demon Turner gets wind of this and by
throwing a woman's voice even ‘further
than Geddie Monroe, he attracts Gordon
into a lonely hut. Everybody is trembling
—except our hero. A trapdoor opens up
and swallows the whole crew. This was
too much for us Davidson men who were
grasping the edge of the seat waiting for
the villain. Mr. Stough very unkindly
referred us to next Saturday’s perform-
ance,

Midge Verble, Linwood Mann,
Ben Wyche, Tom Baskerville,
Hugh Yelverton, Geddie Monroe
and Lorenzo McPhail, the perpe-
trator of “The Yowl,’” were
among those fighting for seats on
the front row. Incidentally, the ac-
companying epic was the lock-
smith’s song, ‘“‘Hold '’Em Yale.”

HUEY LONG WILL IT LAST?
“Tiger Jim? Morton says if they are

going to share the wealth, he is going

to get his share. So he writes Huey

,| Long and is now receiving tons of litera-

ture addressed to Hon. J. T. Morton.
Quite a few on the campus are disput-
ing over how to pronounce the name of
the Long-winded gentleman. Some say
“Hooey” and some say “Phooey.” Per-
sonally, we prefer it pronounced
” with a nasal accent caused by
placing the forefinger and thumb at the
termination of the nostrils.

CHARLOTTE VS. CONCORD: TIE

These two metropolis led a number
astray with dances Friday night. Gath-
ering at the Charlotte Hotel. to hear
Johnny Long were Scotty McLeod, Ed.
Armfield, Buddy Branton, Bob Johnston,
Howard Dyer, Dave Sellars, Mims Rog-
ers, “Salty” Peters, Bill Northen, Jack
Somerville and Dennis Myers.

Concord attracted Preston Creech,
Midge Verble, J. B.. Lee and Barney
Hand. A good time is reported by all,
particularly Lynwood Mann who found

.a “twin” to his gal from St. Louis. Tom

Ross also travelled over but he didn't
attend said dance. Ants.

NEWS: Dave Sellars, Bob Johnston
and Bob Atwater remained on the cam-
pus over the weekend. Says Atwater:
“I have had my fling and now intend to
settle down forever. At least until May
8th.” ROCK HILL: Johnny Pearce,
Prosser Morrow, Dennis Myers, Tom
Griffith, Herb Willis, Mat and Joe Al-
derman, and John Raymer went over and
annoyed the girls during the weekend.
PIKA BALL: Blanton Little and Ken
Knorr attended this annual fete in Ra-
leigh,

OUR
ontemporartes

By Enip Boweks

APRIL FOOL

Following a custom which is becoming
more and more prevalent every year,
many colleges and universities published
an April Fool issue of their regular
paper at the beginning of the month.

One of the cleverest of these issues was
the N. C. State Technician, which star-
tled the students with a large streamer
announcing that Dave Clark, staunchest
of State’s alumni supporters had be-
come estranged from his Alma Mater
and had vowed never to set foot on her
campus again. Directly underneath this
momentous disclosure was the news that
the forensic coach had been cast into the
bug house by a bevy of husky cops, and
that sixteen students had died in the in-
firmary due to the negligence of the
nurses. Such news can cause a great
deal of consternation if the reader does
not immediately catch the joke.

Vv. M. I. GRADUATES ARE
OFFERED MARINE COMMISSIONS

The Virginia Military Academy at
Lexington, Va., was recently placed on
the list of selected military schools whose
graduates may be offered prohibitionary
commissions in the United States Marine
Corps. Fifty-six V. M. I. graduates will
he selected to receive such commissions
this spring.

DUKE STUDENT CAUSES A
NEAR RIOT

A large crowd of citizens stood aghast
not long ago to see the steps of their
post office serving, as a platform for a
fiery speaker whd was urging a large
group of workers to unite in revolution
against the corrupt capitalists who were
grinding them in the dust of poverty
with a tyrannical heel. Several police-
men stood about, unable to interfere
with the right of free speech, but ready
to nip any impending riot in the bud.
After a long oration the labor agitator
informed his audience that he was a stu-
dent at Duke and that the whole affair
was a fraternity initiation stunt.

DOROTHY DIX OFFERS
JOURNALISM PRIZE

Students of the school of Journalism
at Tulane University are eligible to com-
pete for a prize of .$100 offered for the
best human interest story written by a
student. This award is offered by Doro-
thy Dix, famous writer of the syndicated
column of advice to the love lorn and
domestically troubled,

SOUTHWESTERN GETS FREE
PHONES

After much effort and discussion the
student council of Southwestern Univer-
sity have secured free telephone service
for the students. Free phones will be
installed in the dormitories and at other
convenient points about the campus.

COLLEGIANA:

When Huey Long was in Columbia
recently he granted a special interview
to a reporter from the Gamecock, U. of
S. C. student publication. Senator Long

advocates spending C. C. C. money

’Cat Golfers Lose
To Tar Heels 10-8

Erwin Laxton, Carolina, Shoots
71 For Low Score

The University of North Carolina
barely nosed out the Davidson Wildcat
linksmen Monday afternoon on the Car-
olina course at Charlotte. The Tar
Heels won by a 10 to 8 score.

The meet, featured the playing of Er-
win Laxton, Charlotte boy and number
one ‘man for Carolina, who was medalist
of the day with a 71, just one point
above par.

Laxton engaged Charlie Ross of Dav-
idson, who carded a 73. The final tabula-
tion gave Laxton a 24%—'% victory over
Ross.

Harris of Carolina beat George Cowan
3-0 while in the foursome. play, both
Laxton and Harris won with 2% points
to 4% for Ross and Cowan.

In the second foursome, Bill Snow of
Davidson beat Coffin 2% to %, while
Parjonski of Carolina and Captain Char-
lie Hamrick of Davidson split even with
1'4 points each. Snow and Hamrick won
3 points, while Parjonski and Coffin
garnered none in the foursome match,

Wednesday of this week (today), the
Wildcat golfers leave for Athens, Ga.,
where they will take part in the Southern ,
Intercollegiate Golf Tournament to be
held on the links of the University of
Georgia. Accompanying the local team
will be Coach and Mrs. “Doc” Newton,
while it is probable that the low scorer
among the freshmen golfers will also be
included. The ‘Tournament will last
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.

Beloit College (Wis.) students were
told recently that “the art of living con-
sists of finding the place too little and
too much,” by one of; their professors.

Faculty members of Baldwin-Wallace
@ollege (Berea, Ohio) are in the money
again, for they were recently given bon-
uses amounting to approximately 10 per
cent of their yearly salaries.

Dr. D, B. Dill, of the Harvard Medical
School, says there’s no such thing as
sunstroke. Heat prostrations, he claims,
are caused by physical exertion.

‘toward providing free higher education
for everybody. .. Best headline of the
year appeared in the April Fool’ issue of
the Clemson Tiger Rag: “Cadaverous
Colonel Defeats Pudgy Ploughboy” .. .
The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity at Pres-
byterian College gave a Bowery Ball
recently . . . The Thespian society at
Loyola University presents all: its dra-
matic productions on Sunday night... .
Campus Comments of Mary Baldwin
College ran a three column picture of
the Davidson College Glee Club just be-
fore they visited the Virginia school .. .
The Furman /érnet ran a very realistic
picture of the local police department
raiding a faculty meeting in its April
Fool issue... . / A very creditable weekly
newspaper is being published by the in-
mates of the State Prison at Raleigh. It
resembles the average collegiate sheet
very closely. ... The Furman Hornet is
offering cheap space to students for
political advertisements to help in the
coming election campaigns. .

“Srp was NEWS...” of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

D. S. Lafar was elected to the position
of president of the rising senior class.
A. R. Bird was elected to editor of the
“Quips and Cranks” .... Carl Pritchett,
a graduate of Davidson was selected to
take over the duties of the Y. M. C. A.
secretary for the next year. He was a
very active member of his class and also
very prominent on the campus. The newly
appointed managing editors of the David-
sonian took over their offices for the
next year.

TEN YEARS AGO

The Davidson track men made a-very
good showing in a meet against the Uni-
versity of South Carolina. The score of
the meet was 41-39. Dr. R. T. Gillispie
was selected to speak at the Sunday eve-
ning vesper service and gave a very
inspiring talk to the student body. He
also gave the service at the chapel hour

on Monday morning. Senator J. T. Hef-
lin, of Alabama, gave a very good lec-
ture to the student body on the “Political
Question in America.”

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

The Davidson trackmen had a very
close meet with the N. C. State college,
defeating them by a score of 44-36, A
committee was appointed by the student
council to make some rules for the
Treshmen. ‘These men were selected
from their rating on the campus. The
rules that they made were that the fresh-
men classes of Davidson college would
have to wear freshmen hats at all times
and would not be permitted to walk on
the college campus. Included in these
rules were the obedience to upper class-
ment etc. There have been several rules
which have been added since the be-
ginning of this law.

Commencement Invitations

Fraternity Publications

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

K. D. WEEKS

Fine Printing

| @UEEN CITY
PRINTING CO.

e
Representatives

Visiting Cards

Personal and Fraternity Stationery

Ge?

CHARLOTTE, N, C.

JOE WADSWORTH

