THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10,

1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1916

MEMBER

Associated Golleginte Press
vi ehon hoa ote

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWNiis 3. 6s ¢ 46.
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ....

Editor
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
thie MORTON cose secc sec besen ces tevessu Managing Editor
HOW QVERTON Soo cuc cbc cccueLelesuul Managing Editor
Harotp Sucé ...... --Managing Editor
DAYMOND TURNER --.

MARTINGHARNE TY couucreece socue toes Associate Editor
Harvey GLAss .2.-. Associate Editor
PAUL ASHARDAN susce Editor
Tom MARCHANT 4... Editor
JOUN AWATKERS Soscascussdeaegosses Editor
Jess GOSLEN 2 cos oc eae ee seece ose seats . Business Mgr.
Vat CASsELs ----- . Business Mgr.
LOMeROSS sccee-

. Business Mgr.
‘st.’ Business Mgr.
. Business Mgr.

J..S. MeMutten --
R. P. Morrow

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 1935

THE OLD ORDER GIVES
WAY TO THE NEW
WV on this issue

of The Davidsonian the old staff severs its connec-
tion to turn the destiny of the paper over to a
fresher and more ambitious regime. One year ago
we, too, were ambitious and eager to get started
with our new schemes and ideas. But today, hav-
ing run our course, our spirit is dampened though
our efforts and intentions are still just as sincere
as at the beginning. Like every other regime that
has gone before we have learned in the end that
the journalistic realm of The Davidsonian, as far as
true journalism is concerned, is very closely bound
within certain limits.

It would be impossible to express appropriately in
writing our many thoughts and feelings in parting.
We feel that. our work on The Davidsonian has been
the most impressive and most beneficial part of our
college education. Especially has this last year of
experience been invaluable. The connections it has
made for us, the lessons in teamwork and codpera-
tion, and numerous other things that it has taught
us have not only already been helpful, but we are
sure that they will prove still more valuable to us
in the future.

To all those who have contributed to and been in-
terested in The Davidsonian, we wish to express our
sincere appreciation. In view of-the-fact- that this
year we have deviated somewhat from the normal
policy of the paper in several respects. we are grate-
ful to the administration of the college for its Spirit
of cooperation with which it has treated us this year.
And may we remind the new staff that all with
whom it must deal that a spirit of understanding and
cooperation is the best and’ most successful policy.

It is with a feeling of reluctancy that the old staff
brings its work to an end. We are proud that we
have had the opportunity to play-a part in recording
through “The Davidsonian” the events of one year

of history of so great an institution as Davidson
College.

In conclusion we wish for the incoming regime
great success in their new undertaking and may they
ever keep in mind the slogan of The Davidsonian,
“For a Better Davidson.”

—K.:D. W.

A CHALLENGE
TO THINKING YOUTH

“—one thing I do, forgetting the things which
are behind, and stretching forward to the things
which are before, I press on toward the goal unto
the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.”

Phil. 3-13.

What may be said in these lines to follow, how-
ever poorly it is expressed; nevertheless|is intended
as a challenge to every member of the student body.

We hear ever and anon during these days disserta-
tions. on the fact that the civilization of tomorrow
depends on the youth of today. We are everywhere
urged to gird’ ourselves for the struggle, to forget
the past and everything that it has held, and start
out on a new tangent, to turn over a new leaf.

But the structure of the civilization of today is

- so loose, so muddled, that we the youth on whom

this responsibility rests, find it hard to discover a
{

starting place, a foundation on which to build.
“We would be glad,” we say, “to undergo this
rebirth, if we had some way outlined to us, and if
someone were to show us the backbone on which
to mold accomplishment.” : S,

And it is true that youth’s eagerness, spurred on
by the finding of a religion almost forgotten, is in
process of beginning this effort towards rebuilding
the social and economic order.

There. is a difficulty, which is a millstone about the
neck of today’s youth movement. That is the IN-
DIFFERENCE of the vast majority of youth in
America towards religion.

For it is only through practicing the methods of
Jesus Christ, that we can formulate a world that
will really bring happiness and success.

Other methods have been tried, and all seeni to
have failed. Men who admit the existence of a
divinity, who know God, are beginning to realize
this. It is up to youth to act on it.

If it is not too personal, let us take Davidson as
a good starting place. The Reverend Peter Mar-
shall, when he spoke here not so long ago, said,
“Give me six hundred men, a group like those I
see before me now, all burning with a zeal to do,
and I will set the world afire for Christ.” And why
not ?

But we are INDIFFERENT TO OUR RE-
LIGION. We go to church, yes. But what do we
derive from the services? And I dare say most of
us go because we are compelled to, and not from any
desire to hear, and to act on what we have heard.

We are slacking. If the civilization of tomorrow
depends on us, what a pitiful thing it will be. We
owe it to ourselves to make a working basis for
ourselves. We MUST do it. :

There is soon to be for us at Davidson an un-
usual opportunity, which we cannot afford to miss.
The Y. M. C. A. Spring Services, offering to us a
driving, invigorating young speaker/*the Reverend
John Redhead, of Tampa, Florida, have been an-
nounced for April 14th through 17th.

The very fact that Spring Services are to be
conducted here constitutes a challenge to every mem-
ber of this student-body; a challenge to assist in
this series of talks. And we may rest assured, that
if we really assist, and not merely attend, we will
come from the services wanting to start anew.

The challenge is here, men,
to make of Spring Services?

What are we going

jn G,

re

FOUNDERS’ DAY

AND ITS PURPOSE
O N April 7, 1836, the

cornerstone of what is now known as Shearer Bibli-
cal Hall, was laid, completing the first building of

~Davidson College.

During the years that have passed since the
founding of the Presbyterian institution by a group
of noble Scotch churchmen, Davidson has clothed
herself in time honored traditions that have kept her
among the leading church colleges in America.

To commemorate this past that has been be-
glamoured by unbelievable progress and the imbed-
ding of these honourable traditions and to encourage
a future that will carry on as well,as augment the
glorious accomplishments of by gone years, we ob-
serve ‘Founders’ Day.’

Yesterday was the second of these days that
have been set apart solely for Davidson. It was the
ninety-eighth anniversary of the college, and as we
review the nearly ten decades that. Davidson has
been in existence, a great deal can be seen to inspire
those of us who are now the real Davidson and
make us realize the noble heritage that is ours.

It isn’t the purpose to enumerate here the many
things that have through almost a hundred years of
life brought Davidson to its present high place, but
it is simply an effort to bring to mind something of
the meaning of Founders’ Day. A time when atten-
tion is given to the birth, growth and hope of David-
son, A time when we honor and revere our loyal
forebears, rejoice in our own efforts to leave some
minor imprint on the Davidson of today, and opti-
mistically gaze into the grandeur that will character-
ize the Davidson of tomorrow.

STUDENTS WANT

DRESSED-UP BAND
\V Weick Spirit

again expressed itself last week when the student
body voted to give one-half of its returned damage
fee for the purpose of buying new uniforms for the
Davidson band.

For several years this musical organization wore
morbid looking black uniforms with a touch of red
here and there, but use and age made them very un-
becoming and unworthy of the Davidson band.

Now that the students have showed sufficient
interest to relinquish ’a part of their own funds to
see the band. really dressed-up it behooves those in
charge to select a classy looking outfit for these men.
Something that will add to the color of the organiza-
tion and make. it hold rank with the best dressed
musical clubs anywhere around,

White mingled with the red and black would re-

lieve the mournful air that the old clothes had, and {

also give an attractive appearance.

C OMPASSING
the.

CAMPUS

By Scorry McLrop

The last hops of the year are up this
week-end and everybody, it seems, is go-
ing to be there. Bowery Ball, a terpsi-
chorean institution in almost every col-
lege in this country, always draws the
largest crowd of dancers of the entire
set of Pan-Hellenic presentations. Jack
Williams, in a real Bower checked suit,
took off high honors last year as best
costumed. Addison Brenizer attracted
much ogling, too, in his winter under-
wear and swallow-tail coat (no trousers).
Saturday eve will again test the ingenuity
of undergraduates in concocting odd sar-

torial effects.

One of the biggest disappoint-
ments of the year was felt last Fri-
day night when about thirty local
boys journeyed to Mooresville for
After
witnessing the first twenty minutes
of i
dull clowning, most of the crowd
waded out of the leaking tent and
sought entertainment at the town

a much-anticipated circus.

hati.

esting acr and

bowling alleys or picture show.
Midget Verble, Sam Bernardo,
John Anderson, Henry Eve, and
others were seen fighting the rain
under the sieve-like canvas top.
Hippo Heggie, Ed Armfield, Wil-
lard Dickson, Bill Harris,
Downie, Reggie Harris, and Booby
Arrowsmith rolled the balls at the
pins afterwards. Mooresville was
also host to Geddie Munroe and
Dick Hayworth the same night.

Tom

They met several girls.

The ‘Wildcat baseballers have shown
up in splendid fashion this year and it
is not unlikely that they will win state
Woody
Burns saved the day against Carolina
last week by his bingle in the ninth, All
the Ruth followers have merited our
support and congratulations.

honors in the diamond sport.

Florida, West Virginia, New
York and other intermediate states
drew Davidsonians during the
spring holidays just completed. In —
the Sunshine State, Hack Sanders
and the two Greene boys ran
amuck the law and were cast into
a jug on a vagrancy charge. Sam
Hutaff and Bill Brewer were bask-
ing on the sunny beaches near
Tampa until an alarm clock roused
them and they returned for
classes.

In Bluefield, W. Va., Gus Maynard
was host to Mal Grimes and ‘Tom
Downie; the three made an extended
visit to,Cinder Bottom, one of the local
attractions. Tom Corbin, Buddy Bran-
ton, Harmon Woodward, and the reg-
ular Bluefield crowd were among the
others enjoying the hospitality of the
coal-mining city. Salty Peters was to
home.

Harold Sugg is still on a search
for his trousers which the Phi
Gam frosh removed from his per-
son and concealed in a place
known only to themselves. It’s

. not known whose pants he is
wearing at present.

Salisbury comes in for a large share
of Davidson attention as John Sadler
and a number of his K. A. sophomore
cohorts visit Tillie Jones, Frances Ded-
mon, and other ginger-cookies in that
city.

“Roberta,” latest starring ve-
hicle of Astaire and Rogers, has
proved to be the most popular
cinema locally seen in many a
moon. Irene Dunne was the out-
standing performer.

Indifference never wrote great works,
nor thought out striking inventions, nor
reared the sdlemn architecture that owes
the soul, nor breathed sublime music,
nor painted glorious pictures, nor under-
took heroic philanthropies. All these
grandeurs are-born of enthusiasm, and
are done heartily —ANon.

OUR
ontemporartes

By En Bowers

Embryonic Politicians in Action

While Davidson contents -itself with
voting automatically and an occasional
bitter tie-up or so, rumbles from brother
campuses indicate wide-open politics. At
Duke: “An unusually tame campaign is
expected to gather momentum during the
next five days as the campus political
parties conclude their efforts to capture
the lion’s share in the annual spring
elections.” The candidate list of the
Blue and White chains of fraternities
voting together was published in The
Duke Chronicle, subject to immediate
change. This university gives the op-
portunity for candidates to address the
first year men.

At Washington and Lee, the leaders
of one party announced through the col-
umns of The Ring Tum Phi that it could
see no effective opposition from the other
party. In the Wake Forest Old Gold
and Black we read that “The political
bosses and ‘big boys’ were very active
in the election with the result that prom-
ises of ‘milk and honey’ were very fre-
quent.” The Georgia Tech Technique in
its editorial column scourges those “who
remained in cowards’ shoes by circulat-
ing anonymous posters on the eve of
the election.”

College Professors are on the Spot

This news is the result of a review
of undergraduate publications by the
staff of the Associated Collegiate Press
and The Collegiate Digest. At the Uni-
versity of Minnesota (Minneapolis)
where the Minnesota Daily conducted a
poll of students on their estimates of
the ability, general fairness, faults and
habits of the faculty, the following an-
swer is typical of the students’ views:
“My professor can see things from only
one direction, his. own—is dead on his
fect—is a blight“on my tree of knowl-
edge.”

The Indiana Daily Student, Indiana
University (Bloomington) newspaper,
claims that “far too many professors
take, in the classroom, one of the two
easiest courses open to them, One, giv-
ing the same lectures year after year,
hores his class and loses both his stu-
dents’ interest and his own. The other
loses his objective in a multitude of petty
mental meanderings whose. only worth
is to entertain the students.”

Although admitting some of the com-
plaints of the Minnesota students to be

true, The Daily Illini, University of Ili- ae

nois (Urbana) paper, sides with the
professors, charging that “the charac-
terization probably could be placed on
the students even more applicably.”

Students Say Phooey on Huey’s Hooey
In. an unpopularity contest held at Illi-

nois, Huey Long, William Randolph
Hearst and Father Coughlin are the
nominees. Thus far the Kingfish leads

by a wide margin, Hearst second. Bates

College students were recently warned

by their president, Clifton D, Gray, that

“we cannot afford to laugh at men like
a

Ministerial Band

Holds Discussion

Pritchett, Bright, And Glass Are
Advisors At Confab

An open discussion meeting with a
deputation group from the Union Theo-
logical Seminary was held with the Min-
isterial Band last Sunday afternoon at
1:30 in the Social Center.

Carl Pritchett, John Bright and Bill
Glass were members of this group, with
Mr. Pritchett leading the discussion.

Murphy Smith, president of the David-
son group, opened the meeting with
Scripture reading, followed by a prayer.
Very informal questions were asked by
the ministerial prospects and were an-
swered with gusto by the students from
the seminary.

Emphasis was laid upon the courses
that one should take while at college,
these included, among others, philosophy,
Greek, and _ ethics.

“The atmosphere at a seminary, the
students, the faculty, and the school
paper, were fully discussed.

Mr. Glass stated that after one has
been to the seminary for a year and
then goes home, he is, likely to get the
“big head,” or at least over-confidence
in himself in thinking he is a “big shot”
for having gone thus far on his way.

Envy, as brought out by Mr. Pritchett,
should be fought and guarded against
all through college and seminary years.
Mr. Bright, a professor at the seminary
in Richmond, gave helpful information
on languages.

Huey Long and Senator Theodore Bil-
bo.” In a recent radio debate between
Oxford and Columbia an Oxford speak-
er made much of “America, the land of
radio priests.”
Shrdlu’s from student typewriters
The Gettysburg Academy, century-old
institution, today became college history
when the board of trustees of Gettys-
burg College voted to devote its equip-
ment to a campus for young women.
The trustees elected Dr. Charles Huber
to head the women’s division and -plan
for an enrollment of 150 women... .
Practically every college has some phase
of the munitions question among its
queries for debate this year... . / April
Fool pranksters stole the whistle of
Georgia Tech and threw the day's sched-
ule into a jam. .°. . Wake Forest is
organizing a “Defeated Candidates Club”
. Greeks at Duke agreed to buy at
least twenty-five tickets per lodge for
the Inter-Fraternity Ball, Isham Jones
playing. .. . On April 12 at 11 o'clock
students of colleges and universities all
over America have been requested to
walk out of classes to join in a mass
demonstration against rising war clouds
by the Young Students’ League, pacifist
organization with headquarters in New
York City. . . . Larry Hill, representa-
tive, found to his surprise that there
would be “no sich occurrence” on °the
Duke campus.

“Sar was NEWS...” 27 Year Gone Dy

FIVE YEARS AGO

Pyramid Club is installed on campus
as Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity . .
W. B. Goodson elected to presidency of
Athletic Association on second ballot
-ae + The 1930 volume of Quips and
Cranks completes round-up of material
and goes to press . . . Students elect
Roger Enloe vice-president of the Y. M.
C. A... . Rev. Frank Price addresses
undergraduates . . . Baseball team de«
feats Elon and State, but it loses to
Wake Forest .. . 'Cat cindermen defeat
South Carolina, 82-43 .. . Ernest Skin-
ner, noted organ manufacturer, stops to
inspect newly-installed organ . . . Miss
Betty Pritchett elected senior mascot .. .
Captain Jack Pepper announces plans for
a golf match against Wake Forest .. .
Track team tramples Furman, 90-35.

TEN YEARS AGO
O, D. K. initiates six men .

ginia track team defeats Davidson, 80-46
...C. F, Smith announces new David-
sonian staff . . . Oak Ridge wins both
games of the opening baseball series . .
Opening of “The Flapper Grandmother,”
a rollicking comedy, is announced for

.. Virsy

Vriday ... An old-fashioned “street car-
nival” will feature the annual Junior

Speaking this’ year .. . A. H. Hollings-
worth, new “Y” head, appoints cabinet
... Track team prepares to meet ‘Wofford
here Saturday ... Coach Rawson's frosh
baseballers lace Denver to 11-0 tune. . .
Tennis team to play Clemson here Sat-
urday . . . Glee Club presents program
before huge Winston-Salem audience . . .
Chester Monk is elected to editorship of
Davidson College Magazine.
FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Poe and Crawford lead’ Wildcats to
8-0 win over Catawba as Shepherd and
Miley hold visitors to two hits ; . . Trus-
tees elect Dr. Sentelle to newly-created
office of dean and elect Dr. Grey vice-
president of the college ... C. K. Brown
is chosen as one of varsity debaters .. .
Sigma Upsilon elects six men, among
them W. P. Cummings . .. Dr. MacCon-
nell leads Davidson to win over Salisbury
Country Club ... Baseball team faces

.| stiff schedule this week, meeting Fur-

man and State . .. Mr. Jackson leads
Easter services of Y. M. C. A... .

Commencement Invitations

Fraternity Publications

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

K. D. WEEKS ot

Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY
PRINTING Co.

e
Representatives

Visiting Cards

Personal and Fraternity Stationery

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JOE WADSWORTH

