THE DAVIDSONIAN,

JANUARY 30, 1935

The Davidsonian

Founded by the Clase of 1915

MEMBER

Associated Golleginte Press
31934 1934 Gollesiale Digest | 1935 «

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are wel but all
tions intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS ...

peueo Editor
J. A. C. WADSWORTH en teat

“Buainaia Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Martin B&RNetr __-_- 9 Editor
Paut Haran ae M. 9 Editor
Tom MARCHANT .- ionaving Editor
Joun WALKER Managing Editor
Harvey GLASS ----.------- -M i 1g Editor

Lamont Brown
Enip, Bowers ~-
CarRLYLe Lewis
Scotty McLron
G. L. Guietre
E. F. McPuarn
B. L. Rose -2.-
Jack HELLINGER

if
----Sports Editor
-Exchange Editor
---Feature Editor
Po Regey epipolar a eT Feature Editor
Associate Editor
SubauseUceicguacscsudaaus Associate Editor
-Associate Editor
pe i a aay ae Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

J. B. Gosten Asst. Business Mgr.
Vat CASSELS Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross Asst. Business Mgr.
JicSi MOMULLEN coe = eae Asst, Business Mgr.
R. P. Morrow Asst. Business Mgr.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 1935

The learning and knowledge that we have, is, at the
most, but little compared with that of which we are
ignorant.

PARAGRAPHICS

Everybody is glad those dreaded exams are over,
One good thing about them—they bring to a close
and put behind us* all the worries and troubles of
the first semester, offering a clean slate for the sec-
ond term’s work.

Seniors -~were allowed to enjoy their “privilege”
during the recent examination period—that of not
having to attend chapel. This privilege arouses a
great incentive to become a Senior.

The vice-presidents of the student body performed
their one and only-duty of conducting chapel in the
absence of the pfesident during exam period’ It
wouldn't be a bad idea to use them more, relieving
ing the president except on important occasions and
at the.same time giving the subordinate officers
something to do.

The disconnection of the fire alarm as a result
of the last bit of excitement that took place on the
campus several weeks ago has been a big disappoint-
ment for many. However, turning in a false alarm
did involve a certain amount of risk and danger.

The return of Dr. Arbuckle, head of the Chem-
istry Department, to his classroom duties for the
second semester is being anticipated with a great

deal of joy by the student body and especially by
those who know him best.

We wish for Dr. J. L. Douglas of the Math De-

partment a speedy recovery from the sickness that

~has-kept him confined for the past several weeks
and are hopeful for his early return to the class.

Opening the Students’-Store for a half-hour after
midnight on Sundays is an innovation that has been
warmly received by many students. We are sure
that the custom will prove Nee) popular and. will
well repay the store.

ALL PLEASED WITH
McEVER’S DECISION D

AVIDSON Col-
lege athletic officials and students breathed a sigh of
relief when it learned of Gene McEver’s decision
declining a coaching position offered him by the Uni-
versity of Tennessee where he used to play football
and where he made the mythical All-American
eleven.

Had he accepted the offer presented to him it
would not have been ‘a big surprise to anyone here
although it would have been a Source of sorrow. It
would have meant for him the return to his Alma
Mater as a coach, and the University of Tennessee
being a muéh larger school than Davidson no doubt
offered him a very attractive proposition, both of
which must have been facts which he seriously con-
sidered.

However,, there were attractions here that were
probably as influential in determining his decision as
the above. McEver’s three years here as backfield
coach and assistant to Newton have been success-

ful and quite satisfactory. During this time he has
coached a backfield which this last year developed
into one if not the best combination of football
backs in the state. In these three years the Wildcats
haven’t been state champions or anything of the
sott, but they have been formidable opponents for
any football eleven.

McEver as made many friends here and has be-
come very popular among the alumni as well as
among the students. He has had perfect codperation
from the players and at no time has there arisen any
friction between players and coach.

We are glad that McEver made the decision that
he did and we are happy to know that the combination
of Newton and McEver will be with us for another
year at the least.

PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL
DOES SOME EXPLAINING ay

HE PAN-
HELLENIC COUNCIL, realizing the keen disap-
pointment among members ofathe student body re-
garding the failure to secure Kay Kayser afd his
Orchestra for Mid-Winters, desires to acquaint all
with their efforts in attempting the near impossible
—that of bringing a “big time” orchestra to David-
son.

Due”'to the fact that college regulations prohibit
dancing on the campus, which in turn necessitates an
additional expenditure of around $150 for the use
of the Charlotte Armory, the budget for Mid-Win-
ters this year was set at the maximum sum of $1200.

With these facts before them, the council began
work at the beginning of school and were consider-
ably heartened by the fact that the Davidson Pan-
Hellenic Council was accorded membership in a
new movement instigated by several prominent
southern schools, whose objective was. to bring nat-
ionally famous orchestras south on tours at these
schools for the minimum in rates.

Through the combined efforts of the several col-

leges and university members of the conference, it.

was arranged that Kay Kayser and his Orchestra
leave the Blackhawk Restaurant in the latter part
of January and make an extensive three weeks tour
of the south, playing at Georgia Tech, Alabama, Au-
burn, Tennessee, Séwanee, and’ Davidson.

Although no contracts had been signed, the Music
Corporation of America had inferred that all terms
of the Davidson Council were acceptable and that a
contract would. be. sent immediately.

However, in the meantime, Chapin Litten, Sec-
retary-Treasurer of the University German Club at
Chapel Hill, had wired a very-attractive offer to the
corporation and this being considéred the better of
the two, was agreed upon and the contract sent to
Chapel Hill, leaving the Davidson Council in a very
embarrassing situation.

With Mid-Winters fast approaching and no or-
chestra having been engaged, the Council contacted
a score of other famous orchestra’s in a desperate at-
tempt to make Davidson’s Mid-Winter dances this
year the best possible. Terms of contract and: rec-
commendations were carefully considered of the
following famous bands: Isham Jones, Henry Busse,
Bernie Cummins, Enoch Light, Charles Barnett,
Herbie Kay, Red Nichols, Johnny Hamp, Oliver
Naylor, Paul Pendarvis, Harold Stern, Earnie Holst,
Felix Fernando, George Hall, Tal Henry, Al..Kave-
lin, Anson Weeks. and Paul Sabin.

Seven of these Orchestras asked for more than the
council could meet, while approximately nine others
were already booked for engagements during the
month of February. Of the remaining number, af-
ter careful consideration, the Council chose the best
replacement for Kay Kayser that it was possible for
them to obtain under the circumstances.

Paul Sabin and his Orchestra, in the opinion of
the council, will prove a more than agreeable sur-
prise to the student body. It has the distinction of
being one af the best recommended organizations
ever placed before the council for consideration.

—Tue PAN-HELLENIC CouNcIL.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

Duke University (Durham, N. C.) owns one of
the most complete collections of surveying instru-
ments in the entire South—and the entire collec-
tion is available to all engineering students.

Beauty prize winners are prohibited from teach-
ing school in Turkey.

Only 35 women are students at the present time

‘in universities in Japan.

The State of New York has more colleges than
any other State in the Union.

’ The most popular. home study courses taught at
Columbia University (New York City) are English
courses.

Harvard College during the past year has given
financial aids to students totaling $266,920.55.

Exactly 258 colleges .and universities in the
United States have religious affiliations with the
Catholics Jeading with 75.

The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Bos-
ton, Mass.) school of architecture has the distinc-
tion of being the oldest school of architecture in, the
United States. It was founded in 1865. {

om

OUR .

ontemporaries
By Enw Bowras

Students Fail To Run Car At M. I. T.

When two fraternity brothers at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
decided to run off with a street car as a

part of a fraternity initiation prank, they |’
laid their plans very carefully, but for-.| F

got to count on any slip-ups. One of
their classmates pulled the trolley and
while the motorman got off to fix it, the
students seized the controls and started
over the Harvard bridge. On the car,
however, was a former motorman, riding
as a passenger. He leaped to the front
of the car, wrested the controls from the
boys, and backed up to the panting motor-
man, The students were arrested and
pleaded guilty to the charge. They were
held under a $1,000 bond each to await
sentence.
Tulane Unfolds Cortez Document
An interesting slant on law is given
in the document written by Hernando
Cortez, which is in the possession of the
Middle American Research Department
at Tulane University. The manuscript
contains the first written laws used on
this continent. Cortez wrote: “A dwell-
er must have in his. house a lance, a
sword, a shield, a helmet, and defensive
armor.” Also, “Married. swains must
not take journeys through the Aztec ter-
ritory unaccompanied by their wives.”
“Mother Of Millions” To Speak For
Herself
Dorothy Dix, distinguished newspaper
woman and mother of millions through
her syndicated column, will open the
Georgia Press Institute at the University
in February.
Deacon Talks To Lombardo Brothers
Among the many persons to brave the
raging mob at the theatre in Raleigh to
hear Guy Lombardo was a Wake Forest
freshman, described by the “Old Black
and Gold” as a brassy Greenwood youth
who crawled all over the Sir Walter
Raleigh Hotel to get an interview with
the Italian jazz hounds,” Yet with all
his boldness he finafly-succeeded in meet-
ing the “family,” and know that this
act raised the prestige of his Alma Mater
a degree.
Colleginia
Exactly 42 per cent of the three Har-
vard University upper classes are listed
as candidates for honors . .. The old-
est university in South America is the
University of San Marcos, in Lima,
Peru, founded in 1551... more than one
hundred invitations to attend the first
meeting of the year of a “Stutter’s Club”
were sent to students known to stutter
at the College of the City of New York
. The Pan-Hellenic Association at
the University of Arizona has recently
made a rule that first-year women must
refuse dates on the grounds that girls
just entering college are “not sufficiently
mature to go places at night with men”
. Columbia University’s reporters,
questioning people on the street, found
that five out of six think that college
students are loafers. The sixth spoke
only Chinese ... A professor at Roanoke
College claimed that’ many of his stu-
dents will be as famous as Napoleon at
the rate they are going down in history
. The University of Wisconsin has
more than 79,000 _alumni, with 30,000
living in the state at t'present . . A sur-
vey at oné college shows that mudents
who owned cars made higher grades by
25 per cent than those who did not...
The University of Montana has a class-
room covering 1,600 acres—the forestry
school’s lab in Platte Canyon~.—.-.-If
Ballyhoo prints it, it’s indecent; but if
it's printed in the New Yorker, it’s
stark realism . . . Casa Loma Band holds
record of playing at ‘70 collegiate affairs
in 40 states in three seasons . . .@{he
original copy of the poems, in the hand-
writing of the authors, Samuel T. Cole-
ridge and ‘William Wordsworth and their
amanuensis, Dorothy Wordsworth, the
poet’s sister, from which the 1800 edi-
tion of “Lyrical Ballads” was published
—has been acquired by the Yale Library
. Compulsory courses have been drop-
ped from the curriculum of Vassar Col-
lege .. . Cadets at West Point have re-
quested that they be pulled out of bed a
half-hour earlier in the morning in order
that they may have more time to study
. Mexican parents who send their
children to schools teaching socialism,
and teachers in such schools have~been
threatened with. excommunication by
Archbishop Pascual Diaz of Mexico...
Five or more generations of American
ancestry are one of the requirements for
20 new hundred-dollar scholarships at
Colby College in Waterville, Maine...
Emory University is the outgrowth.of a
Manual Labor school .. . Jonahan Swift
is the originator of the famous Popeye
quofation “I y’am what I y’am.”

Miss Agnes Brown, of Salem College,
and Miss Libby Rhett, of Converse,
spent a few days with their respective
families here before returning to college
for. the second semester.

Major and Mrs. John Rhett entertain-
ed the Thelemite Club at dinner Friday,
January 18. That afternoon, the Book-
Lovers Club met with Mrs. C. M.
Richards.

C'OMPASSING |

By Scorry McLxop

weekly pillar this week, as Josephine is
clamoring for an answer to her last let-
ter.

Dear Josephine,

The frantic rush of last-minute cram-
ming for exams is all over, and so are
the exams, thank Heaven. All here is
dead as usual; and as I have nothing
whatsoever to do I have finally got
around to writing you.

The semester tests were too much for
two of our noted studs: Fred McPhail
and Carleton Chapman. They are laid
up at the Mercy and Presbyterian Hos-
pitals in the Queen City. Attendant
nurses are all of a flutter in both insti-
tutions. Chapman has had trouble with
one of his legs, but is improving with
the constant care of his bevy of humani-
tarian females.

A number of new studs have joined
our happy group of Davidson undergrad-
uates. Tommy Miller returns now as
a senior Beta; Coky Branton has trans-
ferred from Tennessee to join up with
his old Phi Gam pals; and George Horn-
beck and Felix Gee swell the ranks of
the Junior class. All these are old
Davidsonians and are being welcomed
back. I think you met Coky at Home-
coming this year.

A big crowd turned out Monday night
to view some pictures taken by a Dr.
Roth on his Alaskan trip; The pictures
were in full color and many were inter-
ested, although Goof Warren and Tom
Breeden were caught napping several
times.

Witness amusing incident no. two:
Walter Sprunt, (you remember the Wil-
mington flash) was trying to help psy-
chology prof. Hood push his car off
when Dr. Sentelle, dean, nobly offered his
assistance; as these two were having
some trouble, Prof. Lilly gallantly rushed
to the rescue and the three finally suc-
ceeded in iki the car underway
‘through valiant manual efforts. Scene
was, seen by Eddie Weeks.

Kate Smith is on the radio tonight,
which reminds me that it is almost hog-
killing time up in the mountains of Bre-
vard. Being champion. hog-caller of the
county, I guess I'll have to go home this
week-end and again exhibit my powers.

A number of the locals have taken
great interest in the Charlotte pro wrest-
ling matches which come off about twice
a week. Midget Verble went over Mon-
day night. .

Somebody told us about seeing some
of your friends up in Mooresville Sat-
urday night. I think Barney Hand, Jim
Morgan, and Bill (Blue Boy) Brewer
were along on a post-exam study, tour.
I saw Walter Dickson, Jim Hodgin, Tom
Downie, John Sadler, and Billy Archer
in Salisbury the same eve. All were
congregated at Tillie Jones’ house for a
lively party of cross-word puzzling
etcetera.

Jule West and a pal were seen in
Charlotte two weeks ago and he sénds
his regards to you and the family.

Harpo Harlan is now avoiding the S
& W after several Saturdays ago when
he was rocked. His old woman, Bob
Smith, is currently spending his time in
intense activity, admiring the lovely fe-
male sponsors which will grace the pages
of our forthcoming Quips and Cranks.

Howard Dyer and Coky Branton were
up in Virginia the other day and mas-
queraded at the famous W & L, Fancy
Dress, from whence Isham Jones issued
a pleasing broadcast for the benefit of
us poor shut-ins,

No more news at present.

With more love than Guerrant has for
his Asheville flame,

Yours, Butch.

We haven't got time to write the old)

The OPEN FORUM
= Letters To The| Editor

(Note: “The Davidsonian” does not
necessarily endorse or accept any opin-
ions expressed in this.column),

Signal Mountain, Tenn.
December 9, 1934.
Dear Editor:

A friend’ has sent me a copy of your
splendid college paper, The Davidsonian
and an occount of the movement of The
Student Policies Union.

I was deeply interested in Mrs. Rich-
ardson’s letter in The Forum; were it
at Center College, I’d fight with the boys
for this privilege, but I am rather timid
towards a college so remote. However
let me ask that you present this thought
to those who are interested in contro-
versy.

For twenty-one years we have lived
opposite the buildings of a large state
university. I have seen this institution
grow from three hundred to nearly three
thousand students. On Thanksgiving day
and at Christmas, when at home, we have
always drawn our dinner guests from
among the Presbyterian boys on the
campus.

I have always felt it a very great
tragedy that Presbyterian parents and
our church colleges could not more nearly
get together to protect the boys of our
church from the atmosphere of our big
state institutions—a least through the
first two years of college. Because of
the great number of Freshmen, they are
left largely to their own ability to make
the grade, without much interest and
with little assistance from members of
the faculty or upper classmen. Too of-
ten might is a leading force, overriding
character. I often wonder that these
men finish college with any remnant of
home training left.

Again and again I have said to Pres-
byterian boys, “Why are you here? Why
are you not in one of our church's splen-
did schools?”

Always the reply would be about this,
“Mrs. Guy, they are so dead—a fellow'’d
just die there; nothing to do but study;
can’t even dance without going off
campus. Dad and Mother let us have
parties at home or in a club house with
Mother and Dad on ‘hand, or if in a
college, with the college faculty as sub-
stitutes for Mother and Dad, and the
college as a Home, the place where
every condition will be known to be
clean and wholesome.”

We Presbyterians are so “set in our
ways,” but our ministers no longer
preach two hours. We no longer use the
communion token. So we can change.
Everything under the sun does change,
rivers, hills, oceans, even Niagara is
having a face fifting at this time—so
why can’t our Presbyterian colleges
brighten up their regulations, so that
more of our youth may be drawn under
their protection to live by, and learn to
love, the traditions and culture found
only in church schools?

I have known Davidson men who
drank—yes—and who could curse -and
gamble. Rules do not protect! Dancing
can be vile, of course—(we would not
enjoy hearing Hitler preach, would we?)
Dancing can be made a legitimate pleas-
ure—if under the rules of conduct re-
quired by a. conservative society—with
said rules enforced.

If we do not give our youth legitimate
pleasure, they will seek illegitimate pleas-
ure. We today have more dangerous
pleasures to avoid and to consider than
the dance.

I'll do most anything to keep my boy
from a state institution until after he
has his A.B. I feel that it is a serious
thing for our church not to more often
and with more earnestness ask for its
own children to be educated in its own
schools, Let’s get rid’ of the name of
Prison by being more anxious even tha:
we have been, and show it by keeping
dances, etc., on the campus—make it a
College Home!

Faithfully yours,
Georgia MacMillan Guy.

(Eds. note: The daughter of a Pres-
byterian, Mrs. Guy has long been a
leader in the church and civic activities
of her community.)

STATIONERY

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

Na

CALLING CARDS

Fine Printing

@UEEN CITY
PRINTING CO.

Printers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, ana of
the DAVIDSON, COLLEGE ALUMNI JOURNAL

PROGRAMS

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

