STUDENTS, ALUMNI
MOURN DEATH
OF “DOC” CHARLEY

be Dabidsonian

ALENDA

LU xX Bl

ORTA

LIBERTAS

I. R..C. DELEGATES
ARRIVE TOMORROW
FOR CONVENTION

Vol. XXIl

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 20, 1935

No. 17

GANG TALKS 10
LARGE AUDIENCE
THURSDAY: NIGHT

“The Opinion Of Plenty’’ Is Sub-
ject Of English Professor
And Lecturer

STANFORD. PROFESSOR

Speaker Plans For New “Ad-
vancement Of Learning”

“The past is not dead, and can not
safely be allowed to die,” said Dr. Har-
din Craig to his audience last Thursday
night. One might expect that to be a
_Plea from a voice out of the past rather
than one of this country’s foremost schol-
ars addressing a group of college stu-
dents and faculty members.

That was not the only one of Dr.
‘ Craig's statements which commanded the
attention of his listeners and which prob-
ably dug in deeper than many of the
expressions of more common opinion
which we sometimes hear even from col-
lege professors. Dr. Craig sprinkled his
audience with the pricking arrows of
new thoughts which kept the attention
of the large crowd throughout his en-
tire lecture.

Dr. Craig, after being introduced by
Dr. Frazier Hood, put his audience at
ease by saying that he wanted them to
feel as though he were addressing a
class in a usual lecture period. He him-
self spoke in a very informal manner,
giving the impression of extemporaneous
additions to his talk here and there, and
occasionally arranging his notes as he
searched for some-reference or quotation
with which to illustrate his point.

“You who are to hear me tonight,” he
said, “have already embarked on an in-
tellectual carreer. You have signified
‘your intention to devote at least part of
your lives to scientific advancement by
your ,enrollment in Davidson College.”

By scientific Dr. Craig explained that
he meant general education and not just
the pure sciences,

“Sickness, poverty, and misgovernment
might be cured by a strengthening of the
scientific spirit among the people of the
world,” he went on. “As an example,
take the matter of foreign trade and
the question of a favorable balance of
trade. “What actual understanding of
this matter do the members of our Con-
gress have? What a better understand-
ing would a wise knowledge of the sub-
ject bring.”

“We are confronted by a_ veritable
barbarian invasion of ignorance, which
is comparable to the barbarian invasion
of the Roman Empire. It can be suc-
cessfully beaten back only by the ad-
vancement of learning,” was the con-
clusion Dr. Craig drew.

To explain his rather cryptic subject,
“The opinion of plenty,” Dr. Craig
quoted from one of Lord Bacon’s essays
entitled “The Advancement of Learn-

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 2)

Dr. Lingle Attends
Church Convention

Dunn Accompanies ( College Presi-
dent On Visit To Reformed
Church Conference

Dr. W: L. Lingle attended the meet-
ing of the Western Section of Re-
formed Churches Throughout the World
Holding the Presbyterian System which
was held in the Second Presbyterian
Church in Richmond, Va., on February
12 and 13. Mr. R. A. Dunn, President
of Trustees, accompanied Dr. Lingle on
this trip.

This organization is a world-wide or-
ganization of Presbyterians. The West-
ern Section is one division of this large
organization. This section is made up
of the Presbyterians in the United States
and Canada. It also includes all of the
different branches of the Presbyterian
Church which exist in these countries.

The program for the two days of the
meeting was very full, and many topics
of common interest to all Presbyterians
were*"discussed, Among those topics
which were discussed were home mis-
sions, foreign missions, education, Chris-
tian literature, and particular attention
was given to the condition of the Pres-
byterian and Reform Churches in other
lands, especially in Europe.

Dr. Lingle stated that this discussion
of the conditions of the Church in these
foreign countries was particularly inter-
esting.

‘FIGURE IN IR.

C. MEET HERE

DR. OTTO NATHAN

who will address the International Relations Club convention February 21,

CHARLES LUCAS

Dr. Otto Nathan (left) eminent German political thinker and economist

22

and 23 of this week. On the right, Charles Lucas, president of the local chap-
ter of International Relations Club, which is sponsored by the Carnegie Foun-

dation for peace.

Dr. Nathan will deliver his principal address Friday evening

and will take part in the various discussion groups that will be formed.

‘Doc’ Charley

QGHEDULES FOR
DEBATING TEAM
AE COMPLETED

Northern Team Pla Plans Negative;
Southern, Western Teams
Uphold Affirmative

TRIPS TO START SOON

Sugg, Stutts, Tot Salango, Smith,
Boggs To Make Trips

Schedules for the the varsity debating
team have been arranged and final plans
are being completed for the intercolle-
giate contests which begin soon.

The varsity debaters have been divid-
ed into three teams with two men on
cach team. The Southern team will tour
through South Carolina, Georgia, and
Florida, engaging various colleges and
universities along the route. The West-
ern team will travel through Tennessee
and .Kentucky, and the Northern’ team
will oppose colleges in New’ Jersey,

Dies Following

Quarter Century Of Service

Beloved Colored Trainer
Davidson Athletes Passes
Away Monday Morning

Of

“Doc” Charley, colored trainer of Da-
vidson athletes for well over a quarter
of a century, will no longer accompany
Wildcat athletic teams.

For “Doc” Charley died early Mon-
day morning at the Good Samaritan
Hospital in Charlotte, where he had been
for several days, suffering from a se-
rious attack of kidney trouble. He had
been confined at home for several days
when it was decided to take him to the
hospitai, as a last gesture vi apprecia-
tion of the services of a loyal Davidson
man.

Two Davidson alumni, Dr. H. W. Mc-
Kay and Dr. Oren Moore, of Charlotte,
saw that “Doc” Charley, friend of 30
years of Davidson men, got the best at-
tention possible. No hope was held for
his recovery.

True to the traditions of his race,
“Doc” Charley carried a rabbit's foot,
one of the left-hind order, and before
every Davidson football game he buried

a rabbit’s foot under a goal post. Ex-
pressing implicit faith in the charm, he
attributed Army’s recent victory over
Davidson to the refusal of West Point
officials. to let him continue his ancient
rite.

His rabbit foot failed him once.

As a Wildcat fan and an athletic prog-
nosticator he ranked with the highest of
the ardents and the greatest of the
prophets. He correctly predicted the 6-0
win over Wake Forest on the gridiron
in 1932 and Dame Rumor gave him
credit for foretelling other Wildcat vic-
tories of yore.

This past fall it was /explained to
“Doc” Charley that he could not go to
West Point with the Wildcats. But the
negro trainer stowed away in the bag-
gage and was there, rooting for the Da-
vidson team with all the loyalty that was
in him. He insisted on following Da-
vidson teams 6n every trip and in 1929
lost an eye when the bus bearing a Da-
vidson track team to the University of
South Carolina ran off the road.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

College Trustees
Consider Petition

Major Part Of Day Is Used In
Hearing Reports And Dis-
cussing Petitions

The Trustees of Davidson: College con-
vened in the Board Room of Chambers
Building at ten, o’clock this morning for
their annual mid-winter session.

After being called/to order by the
President, Dr. R. A./Dunn, of Charlotte,
the Board withdrew in a body to the
college auditorium, where its members
enjoyed a program by the Department
of Music, under the direction of Pro-
fessor James Christian Pfohl.

Following the chapel services, the offi-
cials heard a comprehensive report by
Dr. W/ L. Lingle, President of David-
son, on the work of the college for the
past year and received his suggestions
for the program of the coming year.

Mr. F. L. Jackson, Treasurer, then
rendered a complete account of financial
transactions during the same period and
placed before the Board such business
matters as needed their consideration at
this time.

The major part of the day was con-
sumed in the reading and discussion of
these reports. However, the Trustees
were also asked to advise and consult
with the faculty about certain honorary
degrees to be conferred at the next com-
mencement.

The body then received for considera-
tion a petition from the students urging
that the Board reverse its decision of
four years ago and permit dancing on
the Davidson campus. The petition also
requested that an adequate social center
be the first step in the centennial build-
ing program as outlined by Dr. Lingle
early in the fall.

The Executive Committee of the Trus-
tees met with Dr. Dunn in Charlotte
yesterday to receive reports and sugges-
tions for the years 1935-1936.

The entire administration and regula-
tion of college activities is vested in

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 3)

Sigma Pi Sigma Issues
Bids To Unnamed Men

Members of Sigma Pi Sigma, in ses-
sion Monday night, passed seven men
to membership, and ‘they were sent bids
yesterday. No names have as yet been
made public. After this election of
members, the members heard a_ paper
by Hub Powell, on the cosmic ray, in
which many interesting and unusual
facts, developed by the research of the
past few years, were, presented
striking way.

Thereafter the fraternity decided that
its delegation to Queens-Chicora College
of Charlotte will go there on the fourth
day of April, in conjunction with a dep-
utation from Gamma Sigma Epsilon, na-
tional honorary fraternity of chemists,
founded at Davidson. These delegations
will confer with students at Queens-Chi-
cora who are interested in physics and
chemistry, and an exchange of ideas and
principles will ensue. ‘These visits are
an annual custom, and much benefit is
reaped from them. The other honorary
fraternities on the hill follow the same
procedure.

in a

Pennsylvania, and Vermont. .

The question for debate/is, Resolved:
That the Nations Shall/Agree to Pre-
vent International Shipment of Arms and
Munitions. The Southern team, com-
posed of Albert Stutts and Harold Sugg,
will uphold the’ affirmative side of this
question. ‘They will engage the College
of Charleston at Charleston, S. C,, Feb-
ruary 28, and will then journey into
Florida to meet the University of Miami.
The/Miami debate will be held in the
afternoon in an outdoor amphitheatre,
March 5. On the return trip the debaters
will stop in Atlanta and oppose Emory
University, March 7.

Tylor Port and James Salango make
up the personnel of the Western team
and they will also uphold the affirmative
side of the question. On March 15 they
meet the University, of the South at
Suwanee, Tenn., after which they go to
Danville, Ky., to debate against Centre
College, March 19. On March 20 the
Western team will oppose the Univer-
sity of Kentucky at Lexington.

Bob Smith and Wade Boggs of the
Northern team will defend the negative
side of the question on their tour the lat-
ter part of March and early April. First
they meet Rutgers University, March 26,
at New Brunswick, N. J., and on the
following day they engage Bucknell
University at Louisburg, Penn. The
Northern team will then travel through
New England and debate against Middle-
bury College at Middlebury, Vt., April 3.

Four Social Groups: To
Initiate New Men Soon

During the naa few weeks fraterni-
ties have been initiating the new men
pledged last fall. Beta Theta Pi initi-
ated their new men on February 9. Phi
Delta Theta had their initiation on Feb-
ruary 11; Pi Kappa Phi on February 7,
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon on February
11th.

On the night of February 14, the fol-
lowing men were initiated into Pi Kappa
Alpha: G, B. Cleveland, A. C. Cline,
M. B. Crisp, J. R. Durham, J. R. Hor-
ton, J. O. Lafferty, M. L. Lafferty, R. D.

Neal, C. Raynall, and A. O. Spoon.

Phi Gamma Delta, and Sigma Phi Ep-
silon will hold their respective initia-
tions on February 23; Kappa Alpha will
hold theirs on February 25, and Kappa
Sigma some time during the first of
March,

INTERVIEWED BY py RICHARD VowLes

“Ts. this your first trip South, Mr.
Brinkman?”

“No, but the first in this part of the
country. I have played in the Southwest
previously.”

The pianist, who presented such a bril-
liant concert last week, straddled the
piano bench and smiled boyishly.

“How do you like this part of the
country ?”

“I was extremely impressed with it.
I had no idea until now what a beauti-
ful state North Carolina is.”

“Do you intend to give any other con-
certs after this one?”

“No, I will return to Ann Arbor im-
mediately, and continue my teaching du-
ties. You see, I have very little time

Noted Pianist Appears Here
On First Southeastern Trip

for concerts. My only times are during
vacations and exam periods.”

“What do you think of American com-
posers and their music?”

“So far, I do not believe that Ameri-
can composers have really done anything
worthy of comparison with the compo-
sitions of Bach, Beethoven, and the other
immortals. Most of our native com-
posers are experimenting with modern-
istic musi¢. I do believe that our young
composers are on the eve of a new era—
an era of a music |that will attain great
heights. Musical development moves by
cycles and, in between, there are periods
of decline. Now, we are, I believe, at
the point of entering a new cycle.”

“What do you think of jazz as typi-
cal American music?”

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

NATHAN WILL SPEAK
AT IRC - CONFERENCE
TO BE HELD HERE

Photographic Contest
Winners To Be Chosen

The photographic contest spon-
sored by The Davidsonian and Mr.
I. W. Van Ness, Charlotte dealer in
photographic supplies, was closed
last Friday as scheduled’ The judges
have yet reached no decision, but re-
sults of the contest will be an-
nounced in the next issue.

This competition was open only
to students, 4nd pictures will be
judged on their originality and value
as a record of campus activities and
student Jife. The photos were of
various types, sizes, camera, and
method of exposure not being limit-
ed by the eligibility rules.

It is planned to reproduce the
winning photographs in an early is-
sue of The Davidsonian. At this time
a number of the other contest en-
tries may be printed in a brief pic-
torial y of the h
of the scholastic year.

PP 1

EGENT DANGES
ATTRACT MANY

Rain And Cold Fail To Diminish
Enthusiasm Of Many Mid-
winter Dancers

In spite of the determined efforts of
“old man weather,” the past week-end
has offered many hours of pleasant en-
tertainment for Davidson students.

A multitude of beautiful girls appeared
from ports far and near; rhymical, en-
tertaining music of a “doubtful source”
still echoes in the ears of many; visions
of red and white crepe in Valentine de-
signs; the glittering of imaginary stars
playing ‘“will-o’-th’-wisp”; the flooding
glow of incandescent spotlights, blend-
ing in color and beauty, flit before one’s
eyes; all made to appear and disappear
as if by the magic touch of the Pan-
Hellenic Council.

Davidson has witnessed another an-
nual celebration of mid-winter dances and
their accompanying programs. And, now,
remain only a cold, bage armory, sleepy
visages and unstudied assignments.

Davidson’s mid-winter dances began
under the sponsorship of the Pan-Hel-
lenic Council on Friday evening, the fif-
teenth. Friday evening was filled with
a formal dance, accommodating many
pleasure seekers. ‘he crowd began to
gather quite early, and grew very rap-
idly.

At midnight the figure was presented.
The lights were lowered and a spotlight
was focused on a door in the center of
an enormous heart situated at one end
of the armory. To the soft strains of
beautiful music the members of the Pan-
Hellenic Council, led by their president,

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 3)

College Band Will

Give Concert Here

Mrs. -Pfohl Will Present Piano
Number Never Played Before
In The South

The Davidson College Symphonic
Band will give a concert on the evening
of March 1 in Chambers Auditorium.
This concert will be open to the general
public, and there will be no admission
charged. However, there will be a free-
will offering taken which will go to the
band uniform fund.

The program for this concert is as
follows:

Triumphant Concert March, Olivadoti;
Overture to William Tell, Rossini; Wil-
low Echos, Simon; Cornet solo by A.
Moreland Cunningham; Selections from
Show Boat, Kearn; Intermission; Hun-
garian Fantasy, Liszt, piano solo by
Louise Nelson Pfohl, accompanied by
the band; Bolero, Ravel.

It will be of interest to the audience
to know that the solo which Mrs. Pfohl
will play has never been played in the
South by a concert band before and is
being played from manuscript, as no ar-
rangements of this are on sale.

The college band has been in serious
need of adequate uniforms for several
years, and it is hoped that collections
from this‘concert, together with what
has already been accumulated, will be
sufficient to buy a complete outfit.

Eight States In South-Eastern
District To Be Represented
In Conference

LUCAS WILL PRESIDE

Members From One Hundred
Two Colleges To Attend

Davidson will be honored this week
as host to the conference of the Interna-
tional Relations Clubs in the Southeast,
which convenes here on the campus from
February 21 to 23, inclusive. An instruc-
tive and entertaining program has been
planned by the Davidson club, featuring
Dr. Otto Nathan, eminent German poli-
tical advisor, who will be the principal
speaker.

Dr. Nathan will deliver his most im-
portant address on Friday evening and
will also take part in the discussion
groups and open forum discussions Fri-
day morning and afternoon. A varied
social program has also been arranged.
All the fraternity houses on the hill will
hold open house for the visitors at 9:00
p. m. Thursday night, and feeds will be
served by each. A very important part
of the program will be the presentation
of the Carnegie Endowment for this year
by Miss Ursula P, Hubbard of the New
York office.

Attending the conference will be rep-
resentatives from the International Re-
lations Clubs of universities in Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North Car-
olina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and
Virginia. ‘The conference this year is
expected to surpass that of any former
year in attendance, as evidenced by the
large number of invitations which have
been accepted.

International. Relations Clubs are or-
ganized in many countries in thé world.
There are 528 clubs in the United States
and 139 in foreign countries. Clubs have
been organized in seven countries of
South America, twenty-five in the Brit-
ish Isles, and there are clubs in Bul-
garia, Greece, Africa, Egypt, Iraq, Syria,
Palestine, India, Siam and Sumatra.
Clubs are active in Japan, Korea, Hawaii
and the Philippines, and in the universi-
ties in the coast cities of China and far
into the interior. Young people have
also organized clubs in Australia, South
Africa and New Zealand for the im-
partial study of world problems.

Dr. Nathan, a member of the faculty
of Princeton University, was educated at
the Universities of Wuersburg, Freiburg,
and Munich, and has been associated with
banks in London and Brussels. In March,
1930, he was transferred from the Reich
Statistical Bureau to the Ministry of
Economics of the German Reich as an
economic advisor, He has been editor
of German publications and author of
numerous articles and reviews in eco-
nomic periodicals.

Dr. Nathan came to this country in
1930 on a leave of absence from his gov-
ernment and was the guest of the Insti-

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 2)

Famed Soprano To
Sing At Y Vespers

Miss Errett Straley To Give Musi-
cal Program Accompanied
By Glee Club

The Sunday evening vesper services on
February 24 will consist entirely of mu-
sic, featuring Miss Errett Straley, vocal-
ist, of Winston-Salem.’

Miss Straley, who sings soprano, has
attained state-wide distinction for her
ability in church singing. She will offer
the following numbers: He Shall Give
His Angels Charge, by John Prindle
Scott; Lead Kindly Light, by Gobard,
and With Verdure Clad (from The Cre-
ation), by Haydn. Miss Errett Straley,
singing the soloist division, will accom-
pany the Davidson College Glee Club
in rendering Gounod’s immortal Sanctus.

The college concert band, accompanied
by the glee club and organ, will offer
well-known hymns. ,The salon orchestra,
under the direction'of Professor James
Christian Pfohl, head of the music de-
partment of Davidson, will accompany
the organ in selected numbers on the
program.

“This musical vesper program is de-
signed on the same plan as the Y. M.
C. A. vesper services held in November
of last year,” stated Professor Pfohl.

Warren Babock; assistant in the) music
department, will aid Professor Pfohl in
directing the band.

