THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,

Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-

tions intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT: BROWN 5
R. P. MORROW, Jr.

EDITORIAL STAFF

Editor

Business Manager

NIM? MORTON: ccccscceu ce.
Howett Overton --
AROMD ES UCOMenen Eau aene
DayMonpd TURNER
JoHn Winn

-Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
SUweKUeudE Sie keake ence CULE! Managing Editor

PUARRYSNSUV REN DALI cu stot cus cs ener eben Sports Editor
MARTINGE BARNET cucu soo secuscsosusueLe Associate Editor
RIARVEY 3) GEASS) cose ssouscceccououucuceue dssociate Editor
AUT TOEVARUAN cS cccccuce cu nce Gauss suuwces Associate Editor
MO Msc MARCHANT cause 88h en ju. aba Associate Editor
JOHN WALKER: cones sc cee ces oak ae case Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
GHARERS: MAUZE cle co cuuc eee ee Circulation Manager
Bins WOPR cotiscusscr eh eucceceucane Circulation Manager
IBOBRVANGE So secere. Song eae Circulation Manager
IOKEEROBIN SONS i ces cen ues eo cay Advertising Manager
Bituehihheereuscecc cues ieee oS Collection Manager
BITGODVERUR cent cost toon ay issistant ‘Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1935

Our doubts are traitors and make us lose the good
we oft might win, by fearing to attempt—Shakespeare.

LOCK YOUR DOOR!

There is the story of a Roman emperor who or-
dered a servant to repeat in his presence each day,
“Carthage must be d@stroyed.” Carthage was de-
stroyed, which fact leads us to hope that if the
statement, “Lock your door!” is hurled at you often
enough, it will be heeded. s

No one can doubt that in any. group of six or
seven hundred, there are weak members. We be-
lieve that in the Davidson Student Body, the num-
ber of such weak members is at a minimum; never-
theless, we are forced to admit that they do exist.
Further, we consider it the duty of the rest of us to
help these men in every way possible. The first and
most important way is to remove completely, all
temptation from their way. Thus, removing tempta-
tion by the locking of doors may be considered a
moral obligation of each Davidson student,

True, keeping one’s door locked involves a slight
bit of trouble, since keys are often. difficult objects
with which to keep up, but we know-of no other
act which is more worthy of the trouble it involves.

This plea will not be the last, but we are confi-
lent that many more will not be necessary. We reit-
erate, Lock your door!—C, C,

TO GROW OR NOT TO GROW...

We would like to commend very highly the stand
taken by the editor of the dhunni Journal in regard
to limiting enrollment. For the past several years
we have heard that “Davidson does not want any
more students” and that next vear the “enrollment
will be limited to six hundred and fifty.”

During the depths of depression there was little
difficulty in keeping the number of matriculations
down. But for the past three years the student body
has steadily increased in size, and this in spite of the
fact that there has been no lowering of entrance
requirements and many were turned away.

It is a recognized fact that our physical equipment
has failed to keep pace with growth along other
lines and is inadequate for even six hundred and
fifty students. Witness the need of a new church,
new, and larger gymnasium, new library, infirmary,
science building, and additional dormitory space—
needs so real and vital that the administration not
only recognizes them but is attempting to fill them.

When the graduate school was discontinued, it °

was decided to make Davidson one of the best small
colleges in the country. It was felt that a greatly
increased size would impair those distinctive quali-
ties which have already gained for her leadership
in her field, which makes her so different from the
other schools of her class.

Many believed that the high entrance requirements
would obviate the necessity of limiting the enroll-
ment to any hard and fast number. But apparently
either these requirements must be substantially

raised or a very definite numerical limit must be
fixed, if past standards are to be maintained.

We are inclined to agree with the editor of the
Journal that six hundred and fifty is the ideal num-
ber, as conditions now stand, and will probably re-
main that for years to come.

The tuition fee covers very little of the actual cost
of a student’s year at Davidson, so, barring increased
endowment, there would be very little economic
reason for greater numbers.

REVOTE DESIRED...

Last Thursday the student body selected the week-
end of the Davidson-Virginia football game as the
one during which they would be charged with only
single cuts from classes. Since that time the Wake
Forest contest, which was originally scheduled for
Charlotte; has been moved to the campus of the
Baptist institution. ~

In view of this fact it seems that the students
should be allowed to révote on the question.

I feel sure that many members of the student body
would rather attend the Davidson-Wake Forest
game, which would be much less expensive and con-
siderably more interesting to everyone than the Vir-
ginia fray.

Wake Forest has for a number of years held one
of the four most prominent places on the Davidson
football card, and this year with probably the most
formidable grid aggregation they have had at the
Baptist institution in several seasons, Davidson's
team will need all of the support possible to defeat
them at Wake Forest on Thanksgiving Day.

So, through loyalty to your team and for your
own benefit and pleasure, if you are given the op-
portunity of a revote, select the Wake Forest game,
and help the Wildcats upset all dope sheets by finish-
ing the 1935 football season at least one place above
the last position in the Big-Five conference.

BOARD TOO HIGH ...

Far be it from us to argue in thundering terms
or cases, and it is equally not our intention to greatly
disturb the quict deference that usually characterizes
college newspaper editorials. But we may faintly
suggest that the organization of the Davidson Board-
ing House Association for the purpose of stabilizing
the prices of board is a flat violation of an anti-
trust law we read about somewhere.

Which fact we dismiss as negligible, since if there
were no association the ladies might, by telephone
and Ladies’ Aid gatherings, effect verbal agree-
ments. However, the fact still annoys us and con-
jures up dreams of the advantages of a Union Din-
ing Hall, as other Big Five colleges possess.

But what we positively, loudly and longly object
to is the duality in the price of breakfast. It is 10c
and 25c for the same breakfast at the same boarding
house. One quarter is the rate for breakfast sepa-
rately, per day and for a period of thirty days. Yet
if one wishes to eat only two meals at the same
boarding house, only $3.00 is subtracted from the
fee. Dividing Three Dollars by thirty we get ten
cents. Showing that one so doing is gypped of fifteen
cents per day. Which reminds us of a recent brilliant
sermon on not stealing.

We have no objections to a boarding house mak-
ing a living and we sympathize with them in their
thankless task of feeding college boys. But we ask
a rearrangement of prices so as to deduct fairly for
breakfast. The minimum justice we deserve is a de-
duction of Five Dollars on a Twenty-five dollar board
bill, And even that would leave us dispossessed of
Two and one-half dollars for the landladies to lay
at the feet of that ravenous deity, Overhead.—H1. S.

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

COMPARISON ...

A record enrollment of 1950 is expected this year
at N. C. State with 650 as freshmen—Davidson Col-
lege has only 650 in the entire Student Body... Ac-
cording to The Technician, cheers and yells for the
Stite-Davidson football game were taught during
R. ©. T. C. drills.

CUT SYSTEM ...

With the firm belief that “undergraduates are ex-
pected to attend all their scheduled university ex-
ercises,’ Princeton University has installed a new
system to control class attendance in the under-
graduate school. Class attendance is now voluntary
so long as the student maintains a sufficiently high
scholastic average to merit this responsibility. Under
the old system of cuts, the undergraduate was al-
lowed eighteen absences during the school year.

CAPT. PRITCHETT...

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, former director of
Davidson College athletics, has assumed his duties
as director of the department of inter-collegiate ath-
letics and physical education at the University of
Virginia. Capt. Pritchett accepted this position the
latter part of the second semester of last year, while
he was working at Davidson.

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

By HAROLD SUGG

THE WILES OF THE BIG CITY

The football Game as an American
institution has firmly entrenched itself.
For color, spirit and conflict of emotion
there is no other modern spectacle com-
parable. This was evident last Saturday
night. It might be considered a part of
American Culture; it represents a splen-
did range of American feeling: from the
anxious mother who watches her son on
the field, from the spirit of the players,
the technique of the announcers and
sports-writers, to the grovelling befuddle-
ment who makes a special request for
fur-lined gutters.

Be that as it may, Bill Good—
State College sports’ editor—
scribbled in his column last week,
“I'm picking State to beat the
Wildcats by four touchdowns and
a couple of extra points.” Well,
well. It seems that the ’Cats are
pursued by a 7 point State jinx-
sky.

EXODUS

Crammed in busses, cars and trucks—
by rail and thumb, some 250 undergrad-
uates managed their way to the Gate
City. And many stayed over in the same
sardine-packed fashion at the O'Henry,
King Cotton, Y. M. C. A. and residences.
Ken Fryfogle regrets one fatal step. He
accidentally walked into a room occupied
by State supporters and received a sam-
ple of the same stuff dished out on the
field, only this time without a referee.
He's still limping.

TEA-HOUNDS

Every man to his own choice.
And about half of the Kappa Al-
pha chapter, lead by Chesterfields
Gladden, Vance and Mauze, took
their 4 o’clock tea at Greensboro
College. There was singing, piano
and violin solos. And punch. The
football team was invited. Those
present who were not KA’s were
Carlos Young, Sam Cothran, Den- |
nis Myers, Pete McKnight and Bil-
ly Crooks. Just a bunch of tea-
hounds.

Maybe that’s the reason why a piano
has been moved into the Watts’ parlor.
Or perhaps the Watts’ football team
wants to take morning exercises to music
while training for the Georgia game. Or
perhaps Watts is going in for folk-
dancing.

FORLORN SHOT

The two busses replete with G.
C. and N. C. fems on the way to
their campus while hundreds of
good Davidson boys were running
wild in the city. Reg Harris with
Mary Lib Saunders and Tom Mar-
chant with a campus power
cheered the schools somewhat.
Other prowlers were John Mosely,
Gordon Smith, Don Stewart, and
Bill Yelverton. We saw the reason
Jim Morton has been receiving
telegrams and also ‘‘Mokey’’ Fai-
son with one of the better-lookers.

MEDITATIONS OF A MONK

Dave, “Herman the Hermit,” Sellars
lead the small contingency that stayed
home. Herman says that he is going to
start the year off right by staying on the
campus. Until Oct. 10. Herman—reckless
Don Juan—staged a party of his own,
He went to ‘the show and saw it twice.
But even that_.wasn’t...mean enuff for
Herman. He smoked a cigarette.

WORRIES OF A COLUMNIST

Will the Kappa Sigs love Skinny
Stevens with One leg as they do
with Two? What conglomeration
of factors caused Frank Tucker to
cut classes two days straight?
What local Beta couldn’t get in
his own National Convention?
Why is Harpo Harlan known as
“Precious” in Gr boro? :

FIRST HOORAYS

Band Selections at football games .. .
Joe Dees’ cheerleading. . . New Church
system. .. Nonchalant Paul Pittman. . .
Drum Majors. BOOS: Whistling
organ accompanists in Chapel.

POT-POURRI

As futile as a request to the Execu-
tive Committee. As numerous as fresh-
men with new pipes. . . As necessary as
a pair of white shoes. . . Rabbits in Geor-
gia. Baxter Yarborough describing
the elegant Sedgefield as “some dinky
roadhouse where the football players et.”
. .» Pi Kappa Phi football hero who en-
dorses a complexion soap and buys six
cakes. . . We saw why Frank Purdy

played such a good game Saturday.

AROUND WASHINGTON

The Davidsonian today presents the
first in a series of regular weekly col-
umns on Washington news of particular
interest to collegians written especially
for this paper by the regular Washing-
ton correspondent of the Associated Col-
legiate Presss and Collegiate Digest.

By ARNOLD SERWER

(Associated Collegiate Press Corre-

spondent)

Washington, D. C.—Previous to 1932,
before the New Dealers came into this
town, the words “Government employee”
conjured up in the mind of the average
citizen a picture of a thin, middle-aged
or even elderly person, bent*6ver a desk
in some Washington office, filling in end-
less forms at a snail’s pace. Washington
itself was pictured as a town full of such
clerkly people, plus Senators with black
Stetsons, and a few Cherokees in to see
the Great White Father.

At that, Mr. Average Citizen wasn't
so far: wrong. The national capital was
something like that. But the New Deal
has changed things here considerably, and
Washington's Mummy Epoch has been
superseded by the Children’s Hour, com-
paratively speaking.

At least, some of the oldsters think
of it as the Children’s Hour. Stronghold
after stronghold of the oldtimers has
fallen into the hands of young folks just
out of college. The Treasury Depart-
ment, the Department of Labor, the De-
partment of Commerce, the Department
of Agriculture, have had their dignity
severely jolted by the influx of Brain
Trusters, Junior Braintrusters, and their
various apprentices and disciples.

The Department of Labor is an out-
standing example. Once its Bureau of
Labor statistics had as personnel a great
many elderly, slow-moving people but
now if you were to drop around you
would find a considerable sprinkling of
youthful statisticians, out of college only
a few years, plus a number of ex-in-
structors, and quite a few attractive
young ladies. doing stenographic work
whom you’ might rightly suspect got out
of Bandorsnatch’s Bon-Ton Business In-
stitute just a few weeks ago.

The New Deal with their
predilection for young college graduates,
have in many cases infected the old line
under whose jurisdiction
some of them come, with the same virus.

agencies,

departments

and ‘Tugwell, hired score upon
score of young economists, statisticians,
lawyers, minor executives, and account-
ants, not to mention stenographers, clerks,
and typists. No matter how small the
school you come from, it’s a safe bet that
you could muster at least a corporal’s
guard of alumnj and alumnae of the
same school, from among the employees
of the AAA. A good many of them are
now getting into the older divisions of
the Department of Agriculture.

As for the NRA, well, before the
Supreme Court said, “Thou Shalt Not

lace

Code,” it was the Harvard-Columbia-
Princeton - Dartmouth - Michigan -
Tulane - Amberst -: Siwash - and
what have you-club all rolled ‘into

one. The wide corridors of the Com-
merce Building were filled with sharp-
looking Phi Betes conversing earnestly
with each other about open prices, code
violations, labor policies, and whether or
not the-Scrap Iron and Steel Institute's
Code should have clause 13, section 4,
stricken out in fairness to manufacturers
of bobby pins. Now that the Blue Eagle
has lost its tail feathers many of the
young folks have left the NRA, but close
scrutiny discloses that they are now with
the AAA, the Resettlement Administra-
tion, the NYA, the FERA, or the WPA,

The last three agencies named probably
have the highest percentage of recent col-
lege graduates on their payrolls, of all
the New Deal bureaus. Columbia, Wis-
consin, and Michigan alumni seem to ac-
count for the greatest part of this group
of college people.

The effect on the town as a whole has
been marked. A walk along Pennsylvania

The AAA, under the influence of Wal-|.

Avenue at noon or in the evening, in the
compass of a few blocks, turns up dozens
of university people. F street, the city’s
principal shopping thoroughfare, displays
in its store windows far more clothing
meant for under thirty than ever before.

The cocktail lounges of 14th and 16th
streets, the restaurants of Connecticut
Avenue, are filled with young: Govern-
ment lawyers, economists, stenographers,
and secretaries. Gazing about idly, Joe
Smith of Oregon U. discovers the pres-
ence of Joe P. Smith of Oregon U. and
rushes over to shake his hand. They dis-
cover they've both been working in
Washington for Uncle Sam for over a
year, and neither knew the other was in
town. There are so many of them in
from so many colleges that one can easily
miss meeting an old classmate for months
on end.

University groups have formed, some
meeting regularly, others informally for
lunch, Over the table they talk of many
things, about the WPA allotment to
Texas, about a girl they knew back on
the campus, about a survey they expect to
have a hand in when their bureau starts
it going, about the superiority of Wash-
ington’s mint juleps to that sulphuric
acid they drank at the Cornell-Penn game
back in 1931. Hhey’re apt to be clannish
at times, especially when overtaken by
nostalgia. But more often they mix read-
ily, Columbia with Dartmouth, Williams
with Amherst. Traditional college rival-
ries go by the board in Washington.

Most of them like the town. The pres-
ence of so many other young people, the
academic atmosphere that hovers faintly
in the air, (every time an important Con-
gressman: belabors the Brain Trust, or
the Supreme Court frowns at the New
Deal, it becomes fainter) the physical
resemblance of the capital with its parks
and acres of greensward to a campus,
all these things contribute to making
B.A.’s and M.A.’s and Ph.D.’s feel very
much at home.

In their offhours they swarm over the
tennis courts and pack the swimming
pools, fill the picture houses and crowd
the concerts. Every third girl among
them looks like last year’s Prom Queen,
and possibly is. The shops that rent bi-
cycles, including tandems, report a boom
in their business. At night, rollerskating
happily around the Lincoln Memorial,
one finds Mr. Gainsborough who during
the day is a busy and earnest young at-
torney over at the Department of Jus-
tice.

And meanwhile, the government clark
of yesteryear, a very Throttle bottomish
individual, continues to work on in Wash-
ington, daily seeing the young folks mov-
ing in and the old folks retiring, with the
whole life of Washington getting new
impetus from these lively youngsters.

‘He only hopes, that if he decides to
take a walk some evening after dark,
down Constitution Avenue, he will be
able to avoid being run over more than
twice by some of these youngsters on
their rented bicycles.

Dr. Vowles Writes’on

Books Germans Select

In the May issue of “The German
Quarterly,” published by the Association
of German ‘Teachers of America, there
appeared an article by Dr. G. R. Vowles
of Davidson College, entitled “What Do
the Germans Read?” The articis was an
analysis by nationalities of the ‘“Book-ot
the- Month” Club of Hamburg, Germany,
for a period of seven years. The number
of English, American, French, Russian,
Ceandinavian and other authors repre-
sented among the eighty-four books listed
was indicated,

Dr. Vowles’ paper was discussed and
quoted in “The Saturday Review of Lit-
erature” un¢ler the date of July 20, 1935.
Dr. Vowles is to be congratulated on
the success of his paper and its achieve-
ment of such national notice.

For the past. ten years Dr. Vowles
has ably served Davdison College as Pro-
fessor of German Language and Litera-

ture.

“Compare The NEWS”

From DAVIDSONIANS
e e e of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO—

‘Cats defeat State 12-0 at Greensboro
in first night game... Work on humor
magazine is started. . . Freshmen open
season with Oak Ridge Cadets Friday af-
ternoon, . . Dr. Lacy, Union Seminary
President, to begin fall services on Sun-
day, October 5. . . Davidson Band has
best material in many years. . New
string quartet is being organized. . . Re-
ports have been secured on seventy 1930
graduates. Language teachers hold
meeting here. . . Kuykendall and Gorman
chosen by student hody, to lead cheers.

TEN YEARS AGO—

Victory over Wofford precedes clash
with Baptists . . . One hundred candi-
dates try out for Glee Club. . . Six fra-

vidual houses on Concord Road.
“Quips and Cranks” staff plans larger
year book with H. L. Shaw editor-in-
chief. . . Manhood is theme’ of forceful
talk at vespers by famous orator.
Magazine editors plan first issue.
Many improvements on college golf
course as a result of the splendid efforts
of Dr. Arbuckle. Slavedriver puts
freshmen laborers through tasks. . .

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO—

Wildcats bow before brawn of North
Carolina State in hard-fought game. . .
Real work begins in literaty societies. . .
Professor E. J. Erwin returns to his
Alma Mater. . . Sophs defeat Fresh in
annual baseball classic. . . Prof. J. M.
Wilson brings message to students. . .
Davidson to meet Generals on Virginia

ternities’ perfect definite plans for indi-

soil.
