THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6,

1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER

ciated Gollegiat
eG Beat

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS ... 6. ts we ees
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ....

. Editor
Business Manager

* EDITORIAL STAFF
MARTIN. CBARNMUY “cu taudcccouasaucncauasel Managing Editor
PAULSHARUAN  coebsuceuoocasnoucu seamed Managing Editor
TOM EMAROHANT ischindaschsscnedicasuseh Managing Editor

JoHN WALKER _--

Managing Editor
Harvey Grass --

Managing Editor

Lamont Brown - -Sports Editor
Enin Bowers ---- r ixchange Editor
CartyLe Lewis P .-Feature Editor
Scotry McLeop -- Feature Editor
G. L. GuLLETTE --- {ssoctate Editor
E. F. McPuat. Associate Editor
Bbc RUSR wesdcns Associate Editor

Jack HELLINGER Editor

J. B. Gosten

dsst. Business Mgr.
Van CASSELS -

Asst. Business Mgr.

TOM @ROSS) cece Asst. Business Mgr.
SSMU ONLULLENScetesccusucsucueenuees Asst. Business Moar.
ANRISPe MORROW cubes sce soe es eee nay Asst. Business Moar.
pe NTE
) WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 1935

Tam for anything in this world that keeps the prob-
lem of finding a substitute for war in people’s minds.
—Ipa Tarpett.

Epitor’s Note: The subject matter of the follow-
ing editorial deals with a topic which of late has
been the cause of much discussion among students
and editors of college newspapers throughout the
United States. The student world is becoming more
and more aroused to the importance of the question
of World Peace.

WHAT DID IT
GAIN FOR US?

Sixteen years ago we
ended the bloodiest and most devastating war which
has ever been fought. Throughout the world men
raised their joyful cries of thanks to Almighty God
that four of the most destructive years in the his-
tory of our times had ended! We fought this war
and very hopefully called it ‘war to end war.”
What did it gain for us? What were our achieve-
ments? None! The same jealousies, the old sus-
picions and hatreds were still apparent and pro-
duced the lying and trickery of diplomat? and the
mad race for armaments which had caused previous
wars. And so the world with that unquenchable
hope that lies at the heart of humanity turned des-
perately for a permanent basis of peace.

We have seen these different steps advance.
First, the League of Nations with its “loose alli-
ance” which utterly fell short to check aggression
among nations, to arrest feverish nationalism in
Europe, and to come to any general agreement of
disarmament. We have seen the World Court which
dropped miserably in its undertakings of the adjudi-
cation of disputes between nations, and to establish
the principle of settlement of these disputes by law
rather than’ by arms. We have seen the Pact of
’aris grow pale with its policies of formal outlaw-
ty of war. We have seen the Washington Naval
Treaty, the London Conference, and the Geneva
Conference all weak in their attempts at disarma-
ment. We have seen Japan repudiate the decisions
of. the World Court and withdraw from the League
of Nations because those decisions were not in ac-
€ord with her own national policies. We have seen
Germany break off from the Disarmament Confer-
ence and abandon the League of Nations—an act
that made the very foundation of this world tremble
with fear—and we shall see other catastrophes !

But we must not let these difficulties spell fail-

ure. We must hot be pessimists. The obstacles
which have appeared to the practical working out of
World Peace are but the challenges of our genera-
tion to struggle on toward the goal. The idea of
World Peace has already been blazen on the banners
of the nations. It must be ours, fellow students,
to inscribe it in the hearts of mankind. ‘The ideal
held up before us in the Kellog Treaty, can realize
itself only as men learn to lay aside the selfishness
and the suspicions of a narrow nationalism for a
good-will sincere enough, and a brotherhood broad
enough to embrace the world. To this, religion in-
spires us and all the events of modern life invite
us. The progress of commerce and of communica-
tion is so binding the nations together as to force
us daily to see that the welfare of one nation is the
welfare of all. ‘Phe spread of democracy is more

and more teaching us that nations can exist only
as they promote the happiness of all their people.
The leaders of our thinking are seeing to it that the
world shall not quickly forget the sharp lesson about
the futility, the horror, and the waste of a war
which the World War taught us and a deeper under-
standing of the teachings of the Prince of Peace is
entering into the hearts of men.

It is ours to promote these influences, to think
peace, to talk peace, to embody the idea of peace
and good-will in all our dealings with our fellow-
men; to put our influence behind every effort to
enshrine these ideals in treaties of national disarma-
ments and good-will. And whether it comes in this
generation or the next, we shall look forward with
hope as we do our part toward bringing about a
warless world.—J. S.

THE NEED FOR AN
ADEQUATE GYM fis

HE. evergrowing
need of an adequate gymnasium and the facilities
that go with it is illustrated time and again by the
desire of numerous students to give their bodies
proper physical exercise but are unable to do it be-
cause of the lack of equipmnt they have at their dis-
posal. It has been almost twenty years since the new
gym was constructed and almost double that since
the students were first able to use the old gym.

Even at the present there is never enough room
to accommodate comfortably the crowds at the bas-
ketball games and wrestling matches. Many have
to stand, and others turn away, disgusted.

It is very gratifying to see the increased number
of students who are using the old gym-to condition
their bodies and allow their minds a period of re-
laxation from, their daily work. But this addendum
also brings with it difficulties.

To begin with, the gym is a very small one, and
in the second place the equipment that it now con-
tains is not sufficient to support the number of stu-
dents who ‘wish to use it. There is only one piece
of each kind of equipment and one often has to
stand in line well over half an hour to wait his
turn. This is especially true of the weights, whose
ropes are broken half the time and can never be
used.

During the gym classes and also during gymnastic
competition, there is little chance of anyone utilizing
his whole time in exercise. Many are seen stand-
ing by the stove or sitting on the benching waiting
their time.

Along with the other improvements taking place
on the campus, it is not unreasonable to expect that
some progress could be made towards a new gym.
For many years the students expected the money
made from the Student Store would be used in build-
ing a swimming pool. But when these profits were
turned into a student loan fund, the students hope
for a pool vanished. ‘This is one feature that could
be very wisely included in the building of a new
gym, :

With the coming of spring and summer, most
of the students will doubtless turn to the open for
their exercise. They will seek this new outlet partly
because of their failure to find adequate and com-
plete satisfaction with the gym and its present mea-
ger facilities. :

‘The exercise of all the muscles of the body in their
due proportion is one great secret of health and
comfort as well as of strength and of full manly
vigor. :

EIGHT MEN ACCEPT
PHYSICS FRAT. BIDS I

! T has just re-
cently been made known that the following men
have accepted bids to Sigma Pi Sigma, National
Physics Fraternity, which were issued about two
weeks ago: J. G. Anderson, M. J. Barnett, W. A.
Douglas, C. A. Harper, D. P. Johnson, W. B.
Swope, K. D. Weeks, L. J. Blacktelder, Jr.

A. A. Kuhn, member of the fraternity, has just
recently written an essay on the construction and
uses of Aircraft instruments.

Sigma Pi Sigma and Gamma Sigma Epsiloh plan
to make a trip to Queens Chicora college sometime
during the spring and present a program, but the
plans for this trip are indefinite as yet.

ROOSEVELT CABINET TO
TAKE PART IN PROGRAM

as offi-
cial family of the President of the United States
will take part as a group in a radio broadcast for the
first time in the nation’s history when every member
of President Roosevelt’s cabinet joins with Vice-
President John N. Garner and Speaker Joseph W.
Byrns in the unique two-hour broadcast review of

the Administration’s past two years over the Col-,

umbia Broadcasting System’s nationwide network
Monday, March 4. The entire cabinet has accepted
Columbia’s inyitation to tell of the problems en-
countered and the.work completed by each. depart-
ment since March 4, 1933. The members will speak
from their offices in Washington between 2:30 and
4:30 P.M., EST, in the program entitled “Of the
People, By the People, For the People.” In addi-
tion, U. S. Commissioner of Education John W.
Studebaker will discuss the historic significance of
the past two years. -

C'OMPASSING

the,
CAMPUS

By Scorry McLeop
A new note in music was struck on
the campus when Buddy Robinson,
Moreland Cunningham and their cohorts
began their nightly appearances at the
Davidson Hotel last week. Every eve-
ning the nine-piece orchestra scrapes out
its melodic masterpieces in the main din-
ing room of the hotel. Never did we
believe that boarders at this college
would listen to the soothing strains of
dinner music. If some of the other
boarding houses on the Hill would em-
ploy melodious aggregations as an added
attraction, it might serve to offset the
deleterious effect which so often results
from consuming their products of cul-
inary art. Music to supplement cuisine.

Or even, songs to offset chow.

That a silent meal is more harmful
to the digestive organs than one accom-
panied by soft music is a fact which has
long been recognized. For correct eat-
ing, one must be in the right mood.
Undoubtedly music produces moods which
may enhance the joy of mastication.
Peculiar eruptions which occasionally
emanate from the Pills Brothers around
Thompson’s way could hardly be placed
in the category of “soft music” and their
effect upon digestion is dubious.

SPRING
Many are the indications of the com-
ing of spring: Charlie Thompson has
dusted off his baseball and glove ...
seniors wander off to Charlotte in the
middle of the week . . . overcoats go
from wardrobe to pawn-shop . . . the
co-eds smile more brightly than usual
and sometimes receive an answering grin
from a springful student... . midwin-
ter dances seem ages ago... those Sun-
day trips to the gullies attract more and
more review-worn undergrads . . . in-
crease in postal service to and from Da-
vidson. All of which proves that Shake-
speare was right—“In the spring a young
man’s fancy”—and so is a young woman.

JUNIOR SPEAKING

Despite the efforts of some would-be
tradition - destroyers, Junior Speaking
Dances will be Junior Speaking Dances.
It was the opinion of some members of
the Junior class that the name of the
third-class hops should be changed to
Junior Prom or some other more mod-
ern and appropriate title. In voting to
sustain the judgment of past classes in
retaining the present title, we believe the
class of '36 acted wisely.

Junior Speaking is a unique hop-name.
It originated years ago when the juniors
held a kind of speaking and debating
contest. From Demosthenes to Terpsi-
has been the transmutation of
Junior Speaking. It is not easy to break
with tradition at Davidson. In some
cases’ such a divorce would be highly
desirable but in the present case we be-
lieve that precedent is better unbroken.

chore

Dire results might follow in the wake
of such a drastic metamorphosis in ap-
pellation. Suppose John Siewers had
asked Ikey Dyer up to Davidson for
“Junior Speaking’; then suppose the
name was changed to “Junior Prom.”
Now, Ikey would be in quandary as to
whether she should come or not because
she didn’t really*have a date for “Junior
Prom.” Get the connection? <A has in-
vited B, but B hasn’t been invited, don’t
you see?

TRAVELS

Our usual stooge reports on extra-cur-
ricular activities of all youse guys have
not come in and our information is strict-
ly limited on that account. We do know
that Jack Branch, along with a number
of other Davidsonians, was in Raleigh
for the half-fortnight-end. St. Mary’s
had a little recreation to offer the boys.
Gus Maynard finally managed a trip to
Charlotte; this being his first to that fair
city, he has brought back glowing  re-
ports of the doings of the city slickers.
Gus hopes that he will be able to get
back over to the “big town before he
graduates in June. An exclusive inter-
view with Kayo’s master revealed the
fact that there are some buildings in
Charlotte so high that even Jim Morgan
couldn’t see over the top of them. Must
be great to travel and see all those sights,
sez we.

WE NOMINATE

A few personal nominations: most col-
orful room in Georgia is that of Wimpy
Ravenel and Fritz Byerly ... John (Shy-
lock) Taylor, best business man_ in
school . . . Geddie Munro, most con-
sistently good-humored egg that we can
find . *.

Cin was INE Wal,” af venviCone By

FIVE YEARS AGO
Davidson marksmen are victors in
V. P. I. match .. . Converse Glee Club
gives hit performance . . . Sigma Phi
Epsilon plans’ installation of chapter on
campus .. . Spring football to end with
Spring Holidays ... Wildcats close bas-
ketball season with win over Wofford
29-10 College dramatists present
Octoroon ... Captain Pritchett and Mr.
Jackson plan tour of alumni groups... .
Dr. W. H. Frazer, president of Queens,

will be vesper speaker Sunday.

TEN YEARS AGO
Field Day marks opening of spring

track season .. . Davidson quint closes
successful season by beating Deacons 48-
28... Queens Glee Club gives concert
... Track prospects bright . . . Second
spring football game ends in tie... Big
squad out for baseball . . . J. B. Duke
visits campus.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Junior Speaking was gala affair...
Fair ones throng hill for fraternity re-
ceptions Davidson five loses last
game of season to State... H. M. Grey,
former All-American, returns to campus
as head coach... Nine lettermen return
to baseball squad.

OUR
ontemporaries

By Enrp Bowers

Through State
Capital Keyholes

By Bess Hinton SIver

France ;

In all the universities of France, there
are no papers, no glee clubs, no fraterni-
ties, no athletics, and no commencement.
Becoming a Playboy

Courses: in “Use of Leisure” will be
offered next year at Whitman College,
Walla Walla, Washington, That knowl-

‘edge would be about as useful as know-

ing how to swim would be in the Sahara
Desert unless they have a. pre-requisite
course on “where one may find an extra
minute for leisure.”

Fraternal Love

A butler in the Lambda Chi house at
the University of Alabama has three
children, whom he’ has named Lambda,
Chi, and Alpha.

A Very Short Name

Cornell University is positive it has a
student whose name is as short as any-
one else’s in the world, The student is
Mr./I, a graduate from Tsinan, Shaw-
tung, China, His first namé™s Iu and
his middle name is Te.

Nay, League

The Literary Digest poll renders a
comparitively accurate cross-section “of
the attitude prevalent in the American
colleges. A vote of more than two to
one say§ that America can stay out of
another war and only a slight majority
against the United States entering the
League of Nations. An overwhelming
vote of more than 9 to 1 in favor of
government control of armament and
munitions industries. This may be so-
cialism but it would be a great deal su-
perior to the present system.

It Pays to Advertise

A small advertisement placed in 4
New York newspaper benefited Wake
Forest College to the extent of over one-
fourth of her present value. including
her endowment, property, and buildings.
The -president of the college in 1884
went to New York to tind a wealthy
benefactor for his institution. He looked
around for a while but was unable to find
one. Then he placed a small ad in one
of New York's popular dailies, advertis-
ing for someone to help a small South-
ern college. Mr. Jabez A. Bostick, presi-
dent of the Standard Oil Company at
that time, answered the ad and created a
fund for ministerial students and the
following year he gave the college a
gift of $50,000 in Standard Oil stock
which increased in value to $400,000. To-
day Bostick's gifts are worth
$1,500,000.
A Swell Joint
Two undergraduates at Wake Forest
have bought a soda shop and are jerking
their way through college. Business is
picking up under the “New Deal.”

about

Colleginia
Rutgers University will introduce a
new four-year: course introductory to

government service next-fall. The course
is designed for those preparing for pub-
lie administration work. They will also
introduce a four-year course in band
practice. ... Fifty students at Vallipin,
Spain, locked up two professors until
they promised to pass the entire class
without an examination. . . . Legal sub-
sidizing of athletes is under consideration
at Penn State. .....The Olympic_games
of 1936 at Berlin will admit basketball
as a contesting sport. There will be
from 18 to 20 teams entered in the com-
petition from the United States. .

A student at St. John’s College, while

UPS AND DOWN—The McDonald-
Lumpkin anti-sales tax plan to tax cor-
porations more, tax dividends from all
corporation stocks and levy a tax of
from $5 to $900 on all individual incomes
above $1000 per year rises and falls in
popularity dike a thermometer. It didn't
have much. visible support in the early
days of the present Legislature, then
its stock rose as the two sponsors ex-
plained its workings and estimated its
revenue yield. It took a drop when the
lobbyists had their day in court before
the finance committee. But merchants
came to the rescue and boosted the pro-
posals with their endorsement. It hasn't
been adopted yet and you can find plenty
of prognosticators that it -will not be-
come law. On the other hand, the Mc-
Donald-Lumpkin bloc is still hopeful and
working industriously.

SPEAKER—The grapevine reports
renewed rumors that Representative R.
Gregg Cherry, of Gaston, Chairman of
the House Finance Committee, will be
a candidate for Speaker next session.
Everybody agrees that he is doing his
best to make a record for speed on the
money Dill, but sales tax opponents feel
that the matter of a month or so is not
so important if they can get out from
under the tax for the next two years.
They are making it tough for Mr.
Cherry's political aspirations and he
shows no little irritation in committee
at times. ‘That isn’t calculated to aid
his chances in legislative politics.

MUD-HOLES—It looks like you boys
and girls living off the concrete may
get your roads and bridges repaired
pretty soon. The General Assembly has
made a special immediate appropriation
of $3,000,000 for that purpose. A lot
of folks are still hanging around the
Capitol hoping to get a slice of your
gasoline tax for this, that and the other
and nothing but a stiff fight and constant
vigil is going to prevent a raid on ‘high-
way funds before the Legislature ad-
journs. :

WORRIED—Senator W. P. Horton,
of Chatham, is worried about the state
forcing parents to send their children to
school in busses that grand juries say
are unsafe and then refusing to pay ex-
penses iiy cases of death or injury: He
has introduced a bill to require the state
to pay up to $600 damages in school
bus, accidents. *

copying another -student’s examination
paper, absent-mindedly also copied the
other’s name. . . . Vassar College for
Women was founded by a brewer who
wanted to see if women could be edu-
cated. . . .Only 35 women are at pres-
ent in Japanese universities ... An inves-
tigation-at-the University of Towa shows
that one out of every eleven campus en-
gagements results in marriage... Be-
cause of popular demands, tango lessons
will be offered at the University of Min-
nesota . . . One of the biggest treats of
1935 radio programs will be the recital of
Ignace Paderewski which will be given
if all plans work out at least by this
coming October. .. . Senator Elbert D.
Thomas, of Utah, former professor at
the University of Utah, has suggested
that at least 10,000 students should be
exchanged between the United States

and Japan in the future... .

Commencement Invitations

Fraternity Publications

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

K. D. WEEKS

Fine Printing
| e

@UEEN CITY
PRINTING CO.

e
Representatives

Visiting Cards

Personal and Fraternity Stationery

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JOE WADSWORTH

