2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 20, 1935
’ ’ has been a marked trend away from the cut and YF ” C
(9 if) e 3D a 1) id 4 0 nN la nN dried educational formulas and, an increasing de- OUR : DOC Saati .OM P AS 5 IN G
mand for courses that have, not only curtural, but ) ntemporarte S An example of ey abba Anggren Z Le.
Founded by the Clase of 1915 practical advantages—a “‘carry over value.” Fi the death of “Doc” Charlie, David- /

MEMBER

ciated Gollegi
ag oy Se

WISCONSIN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING: COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Bntered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p.m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are wel but all
tions intended for publication must be signed.

K.D. WEEKS ........
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ...

‘ Editor
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Magtin Barnett Monaging Editor
Paut Haran Managing Editor
Tom MarcHANT Managing Editor
OHN WALKER Managing Editor
ARVEY GLASS -..______ Managing Editor

Lamont Brown nee Sports Editor
Enm Bowrgrs Exchange Editor
Cartyix Lewis Feature Editor
Scorry McLgop Feature Editor
G. L. Gutrerre Associate Editor
E. F. McPaar, .. Associate Editor
B. L. Rose - e A iate-Editor
Soeetteenenn es caeu Sree -Associate Editor

Jack Heurncer

BUSINESS STAFF

J. B. Gosten Asst. B ss Mgr.
Vat CAssEts Asst. Business Mgr.
om Ross Asst. Busi Mgr.
J. S. McMurian ..-22-2---__2__- Asst. Business Mor.
P. Morrow Asst. Busi: Mgr.

Our Trustees doubtless considered this when they
added the Department of Music. The great success
of this department, not only justifies any expenditure
entailed, but will suggest to the thoughtful observer
the vast student interest in what might for want
of better name, be termed the not strictly scholastic
departments’ of education. It should also indicate
the reception which would be accorded a department
or chair of Journalism.

The addition of such a course would by no means
mean an encroachment on the fields of professional
schooling. It would however offer a breadth of ex-
perience and training that would prove of value to
men in any walk of life.

For, aside from the stereotyped formula of thé
news-story and the vocabulary-building impossibility
of the “heads,” Journalism teaches modern Eng-
lish in its most usable form. It engenders a com-
mand of. words which should prove equally benefi-
cial to businessman or clergyman, lawyer or doctor,
to any one who plans to enter professional or voca-
tional life. The clear and exact meaning in the few-
est possible number of word$ is the journalist’s goal.
And wherever there is need for the use of written
or spoken English the three “‘C’s” of Journalism may
be of help—Clarity, Conciseness, and Correctness.

Last year the staff of this paper went on record
as being unanimously in favor of a Department of
Journalism, That resolution still stands. Doubtless
there are many others who would like to continue or
undertake work in this field. We already have the
laboratory and feel that we would benefit by even
part-time instruction in this field. Why not. give
Journalism at least a trial?—D. T.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1935

Men and nations can only be reformed in their youth;
they become incorrigible as they grow old—Rovssrav.

Test Your Steam-Pressure!
Editorial on the Value of Extra-Curricular Activities
By Caprain Norton G. Pritcuett

THE DAVIDSONIAN
AND JOURNALISM

D, VIDSON’S
claim to recognition and whatever fame she may
enjoy rests entirely on those extra-curricular activi-
ties in which she’comes ini contact with other schools
or the world outside. Her vaunted reputation for
sportsmanship has been gained by her athletic teams,
Her Y. M. C. A. has stimulated interest in the field
of social service. The literary societies and debating
team have fostered interest in forensic matters.

An adequate coaching staff supervises the efforts
of all athletic teams. A competent “Y” secretary
directs religious and social missions. One of our
professors, who has himself had training in that
field, has given without stint of his time and talent

to the preparation of a debating team. But The
Davidsonian—?

Is it not strange that the one medium by which all
these accomplishments are recorded, the college
weekly which goes, to all undergraduates and hun-
dreds of friends and alumni throughout the country,
the journal which through its exchanges reaches in
one week more campuses than all our teams visit
within a school year, is it not strange that The
Davidsonian does not have the service of even a
part-time faculty director?

This is not an attempt to apologize for the glaring
errors which sometimes creep into this publication,
or even the less noticeable ones which frequently oc-
cur. No one is more painfully conscious. of these
errors than the members of the staff, and no one is
more eager to avoid or correct them.

Each year between thirty and forty men serve the
editorial staff in various capacities. ‘The reporters,
drawn from the two lower classes, camprise more
than half of this number, and of these a majority
are freshman with no previous journalistic training
or experience. These men serve anonymously and
ask for no other reward than a place on the staff.
Willingness, unfortunately however does not make
up for the lack of experience, or zeal for lack of

training ; hence many of the errors which subject us
to criticism,

The high rating which this paper has been accus-
tomed to receive from the national accrediting agen-
cies shows clearly the amount of journalistic talent
which may be found in the student body. What we
are trying to express in these few lines is a plea
for the opportunity to develop this talent. If our
predecessors have done so well under handicaps,

*-what might we not dare to hope for those who come
after, should they be given the benefit of proper
guidance?

Surely, no member of the college administration
would dream of sending an uncoached football team
onto the field. Yet the status of The David3onian is
analogous to that of a football team that without
any coaching, other than that given by its members
attempts to compete with a large number of highly
trained squads.

Within. the past few years all of the so-called
“liberal arts colleges” have moved towards the es-
tablishment of more widely varied curricula. There

Perfect contentment may be good for Carnation
Cows, but it should never be permitted to cloud the
vision of intelligent humans who have other purposes
and objectives. Therefore, in complying with a re-
quest that I venture into the editorial column, I have
but one hope in mind—to provoke reaction at a time
when the temptation is to rest on our oars, now that
examinations are over and the “rough winds of
winter do shake the darling buds of May.” If my
gentle suggestive zephyr may awaken any “darling
buds” now sleeping in hot-houses of complacency, I
am willing to weather whatever chill of indifference
may follow.

‘Davidson has just cause for pride in her splendid

‘traditions that make every student a potential heir

of all that can characterize manhood at its best. I
believe I am not unduly biased in saying that I can-
not conceive of any institution that has a more
friendly atmosphere, a better “spirit,” or finer men
than may be found on its campus; nor do I know of
any institution where a greater proportion of the
student body participates in wholesome campus ac-
tivities. If this is the case, then, why say more? The
answer is—let’s talk less and less about our virtues
and more and more about what may yet be done.

My hobby is athletics_orPhysical_Education, so
I am perhaps inclined to over-emphasize this phase
of college life. I shall, however, at least try to keep
within sensible bounds while dreaming and seeing
visions. Is it reasonable to predict that the day will
come when every student in Davidson College will
devote himself unremittingly to one or more campus
activities in ways that broaden sympathy and under-
standing, while contributing in even greater measure
than now to Davidson’s welfare. Surely no student
has reason to hold himself in great esteem merely
because he is making passing marks, for “making the
grade” in college can mean that the mental digestive
system is no stronger than it was in high school,
even if it does hold more. Am I reasonable, then,
in predicting that some truly representative form of
extra-curricular activity will eventually be required
by practically all educational institutions? Perhaps
that may come, but will it not always be true that
initiative can best be developed without compilsion
and that the man who follows interest-consuming ac-
tivities of his own volition derives more benefit there-
from than would be the case under pressure. We
need not follow Henry Drummond’s statement lit-
erally—“Unless a man undertakes to do more than
he possibly can do, he will never do all that he can
do”—because there is such a thing-as over-diversi-
fied interests that may weaken true purpose and ac-
complishment. On the other hand, there are several
extra-curricular activities on our campus that are
truly representative in the sense that Davidson Col-
lege is definitely Served by those who devote them-
selves to such interests. Undeniably such men are
contributing immeasurably to their own development
while thus serving Davidson.

Let's be more specific and take a picture: Suppose
Davidson had no publications board, no musical or-
ganizations of any kind, no forensic activities, no
Y. M. C. A. interests, no student government, no
athletic teams; in short, no activities aside from
class-room work. Would you, as students, find un-
der such conditions an atmosphere so conducive to

By Enw Bowms

W & L Eco Class Goes Steinish

The: Gertrude Stein influence has at
last reached the classroom. A student
took some economics notes and here’s
how they looked: “A bill of exchange
is a bill of exchange is an order of the
drawer through the drawee to the payee
in pounds for dollars dollars for pounds
Britain pounds are backed by gold
pounds are. gold dollars are gold. The
President fixes gold you can fix gold
does gold need fixing why fix it we never
use it. .. .” and so on on and so,

VPI To Have Mid-Winters

The annual mid-winters will take place
this Friday and Saturday, with the dan-
sants on Saturday afternoon. The Ger-
man Club will offer Bert Lown while
Jim Fettis will play for «the Cotillion
Club.

“Stupendathon”

The State College athletes have been
seen on the gridiron, diamond, court, and
the field, but it will be the first time
that the student body will have a chance
to see them on the stage. The “Stupen-
dathon” will be a take-off on the Walka-
thon. All female parts will be taken by
the males, and probably the most out-
standing feature will be Carl: Goode
dressed as a ballet dancer in the “Spring
Dance.”

Crepe

“Killed by Suppression” hangs on the
office door of the “Reveille,” Louisiana
State University student paper. The staff
has resigned—signal that they will not
submit to censorship. Editors and all
their helpmates have “whata life’ if
they don’t weaken,

V'll Huff and Puff

Following riots by over two hundred
university students in front of the two
theatres at the University of Georgia in
which an innocent bystander was injured,
Georgia students declared a boycott on
the Athens theatres at a mass meeting.
The police fired into the air and at the
ground after being bombarded by a
shower of eggs and coal cinders, not to
mention the intermingling eggs.
Colleginia

Over 30 religious denominations are
represented among the 4,400 students reg-
istered at the University of Alabama.

son’s popular athletic trainer.

Goodnatured, dependable and a
true Wildcat, this old darkey was a
friend of every Davidson man that
ever knew him. Reaching into the
abstract area of evaluation it may be
said that in spirit there was never a
more loyal Wildcat supporter.

We pay tribute at this time to
“Doc” Charley Wilson who for the
past three decades has been devoted
in his efforts for the welfare of
Davidson athletes.

Only 305 students expressed no relig-
ious preference. :

A junior at Wake Forest brought a
room with him when he came to college
this fall. He built a small one-room
house for about $25, hauled it by truck
from his home and set it under a giant
oak tree near the campus. Here he does
his own cooking, sleeping, and studying.
Says he, “Necessity is the mother of
ingenuity.”

According to the Johnsonian, Louisiana
State College paper, its course in Wil-
liam Shakespeare will be discontinued
and one of Hooey Long will be substi-
tuted to maintain the standard set by
the previous curriculum. It is the pro-
found belief of “The Clemson Tiger”
and mine that the Great Hooey would
serve the cause of education much more
effectively as a subject for a psychology
lab.

The latest (and last) story about the
W. & L. Law School fire has it that
one member of the. fire department was
not allowed to ride on the truck because
he had not paid his dues.

According to The American Weekly,
a recent graduate of Cornell is planning
a nudist colony on a South Sea isle where
clothes, cigarettes, the Bible and the bot-
tle are banned. Everything else though—
including love—is free. This proposed
Utopia is open only to college gradu-
ates.

A good story—fish perhaps—A college
student, after hours of arguing about
resolutions at a peace meeting, went to
the bank to cash a check. They asked
him to endorse it. In a mental fuzz, he
wrote on the check, “I heartily endorse

this check.” .

“rr was NEWS...” ofivtncone'b

FIVE YEARS AGO

Wildcats conquer Elon in hard-fought
battle . . . Glee Club returns from Vir-
ginia trip... Dr. Walter Lingle to leave
soon on speaking tour . . . Davidson
quintet faces very strong opposition in
three state games . . . Wildkittens down
Wingate five .. . Davidson wrestlers to
meet Army matmen . . . Annual Junior
Speaking program to take place on
March 14th and 15th . . . Sophomore
banquet will be replaced by party . .
Scabbard and*Blade fraternity to enter-
tain. . . Prof. Fleagle to be head of
summer session.

TEN YEARS AGO
Wildcats down Georgia Tech 36-27 by
fast passing and accurate shooting . . .

-| sults are apparent . .

Philosophy Club is started here . . .
Strong V. P. I. team wins over Davidson
wrestlers . . . Wildcat Glee Club makes
big hit in Belmont . . . ’Kittens smother
Charlotte “Y” seniors . . . Many girls
at frat house parties .. . Dr. Swan of
New York puts social hygiene before
Davidson students with valuable films.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
“Flu” bids hill farewell as no ill re-
. State Volunteer
Conference to meet here. Over one hun-

dred delegates expected . . . Bolshevists
routed in sham battle by R. O. T.C....
Glee Club preparing excellent program
for Junior Speaking . . . Peace Orator-
ical Contests to be resumed this year.

mental, spiritual, and physical growth as is the case under present con-
ditions? Common sense answers in the negative.

Let’s take another picture and make a closer analysis: I venture the
statement that all organized representative activities that develop indi-
vidual capacity while contributing tremendously to Davidson's welfare
are actually supported by less than 7’ per cent of our students. In mak-
ing this statement, I am not considering organizations that have as their
sole purpose personal aggrandizement or the recognition of single attain-
ment. I leave to others the proof or disproof of my statement, but I
should welcome a more interesting statistical approach to such a cross-

index of our student body.

Now, all of the activities I have mentioned are decidedly worthwhile,
and any student would do well to acquire an active interest in one or more
of them, as is true in many instances. In two of these activities, debating
and athletics, our-teams must compete against intercollegiate opponents.
It seems reasonable, thérefore, to urge every man who can spare the time
and who is physically fit to test himself for his own good and that of his
Alma Mater before drifting with the stream, Some of our outstanding ath-
letes have been men who never-competed before coming to Davidson, but
they were willing to pay the price in their determination to do something
and to test their own mettle. Too many men “long for the merchandise

but would fain keep the price.”

During the past five years intramural sports have been supported so
enthusiastically that we have every reason to be satisfied with their grow-
th and development, but we feel fully justified in calling attention to the
fact that intercollegiate competition is the ultimate objective of our ath-

letic program. The mere fact that a

student enjoys intramural sports be-

cause he doesn’t ‘have to undergo the “grind” of intercollegiate competi-
tion, is the weakest excuse one can make for failing to follow through,
if he has the time and the physical ability to do so. If these two con-
tingencies are met, only two other factors, it would seem-can prevent a
student from finding at least a “fighter’s chance’ somewhere along our
line of intercollegiate sports—unadulterated laziness, or temperamental
inhibitions, that can usually be boiled down to mental alibis. It is to both
the latter types that I put these questions: Why be satisfied with doing
what you are required to do? Why no drive yourself instead of hitch-
hiking through college under power supplied by others? Why deny your-
self the-thrill that comes from the determination to do‘the hard things?
Why be content to “let George do it” while salving yourself in mere talk

about the “Davidson spirit?”

CAMPUS

By Storry McLrop

One busy week follows another. Last
week all were agog over mid-winters
and this week will bring to Davidson
the district conference of I. R. C., with
about two hundred delegates and faculty
representatives from southern schools.
The Student Policies Union presented its
petition to the Board of Trustees this
afternoon and it is just possible that
before the conclusion of the present year
we at Davidson may have campus danc-
ing and real plans for a social center.

Getting off to an early start for mid-
winters, a number of the local boys were
at the Hotel Charlotte supper dance on
Thursday night where Kay Kyser played
for a packed house. Despite the present
disrepute of the Kyser aggregation
among Davidsonians, David Sellers and
Bob Johnston appeared to enjoy his mu-
sic. Miss Jesse James (Martha Outlaw),
of Elizabeth City, appeared with K. D.
Weeks and enlivened a table occupied by
Trio Rogers, Pinhead Northen, Yung-
mango West, and others. Clara Marg
Grantham arrived early with Ollio (King
of the West) Duff, while Tarzan Siew-
ers and Gus the Barber Maynard made
a belated entrance. Mary Preston, of
Columbia, was attendant with several un-
derclassmen from the S. C. University.
Dunc Johnson revelled in the company
of Louise Brown. All in all, the Kay
Kyser one must have been very fine in-
deed, from all reports.

The biggest event on the Davidson so-
cial calendar brought to our campus the
most select group of young ladies that
it has been our pleasure to meet any-
where at any time. Doing honor to that
merry old St. Valentine, the decorations
were colorful and of the very best.

Mid-winter Incidents: Ben Rose had
two wrecks in one day; Bob Johnston
had his tonsils removed; George Tipton
suddenly acquired a taste for mild pugi-
lism; the Country Gentlemen were again
blocked in their entertainment efforts by
a jaundice-pigmented cafe proprietor and
were forced to adjourn to the Tavern;
Mims Rogers was in a bind with three
femmes; formal evening dress secured
a firmer grip on Davidson as twelve
showed up in tails Friday night; to dance
in tails entails additional expenditure
but any financial outlay is compensated
for by the improved appearance which
they give; the Friday night Pan-Hellenic
figure was so short that it could not but
be good; Carlyle Lewis enjoyed the Sat-
urday with Miss Cunningham; and every-
body had a good time,

Between the hops Saturday, the Greeks
banqueted at various Charlotte clubs, ho-
tels, cafes, inns, and boarding houses.
Geddie Munroe served as maitre de tos-
tum for the Fijis at the S & W; while
Wimpy Ravenel and Uncle Ezra Green
orated for the Kappa Sigs. Uncle Ezra
explained the whys and wherefores of
the various K. §S. nicknames. Ravenel
is called Wimpy, not because of ham-
burgers, but because of Hambright
(Betty). At Efird’s, the Phi Delts and
their bevy of girls had a tween-hop cele-
bration and the K. A.’s dined royally at
the Hotel Charlotte while Hod Williams
played “O, Davidson.” The Sons of
Minerva were also at the fine Queen City
hostelry.

Saturday afternoon the Phi Gam melo-
drama, uMder the personal supervision of
the freshmen of that lodge, supplied a
ludicrous interlude for those humor-
minded ladies and gentlemen present. The
title of the production was, appropriately,
“Fannie’s Bust” and the heroine was
Fannie Hurts while Alsquietonthewest-
ernfront played the part of thewhand-
some and dashing hero, Other characters
were portrayed by Cutie-Pie McNabb,
the _Ganier impersonators, _and Man
Mountain Holt. The villain, Red Dog
Thug, was so mean that he killed his
parents when he was a kid so that he
could go to the Orphans’ Picnic.

As three professional wrestlers pro-
tected her, a girl at a Charlotte hotel
sprayed P. Y. Harlan with salt from a
rapid-flow shaker. Harpo took on’ the
appearance of having been in a blowing
snow-storm—with his clothes and body
covered with the sec. To climax the
embarrassment of the white situation,
somebody poured a bottle of beer in his
new hat. Harpo is on the rampage and
none too quiet about it. Beware all

wrestlers,
