THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20,

1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

“Goliesinte Press

i i935e
wisconsin

Associated

1934

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock Pp. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

Me DGWEEES 6605 664 5 ss
J. A.C WADSWORTH ...

ences Editor
usiness Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

MARTIN BARNETT
Pau HARLAN -.----__-
Tom MARCHANT
JoHN WALKER -

Managing Editor
Cosuawee) Managing Editor

Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
SsScous eae Sports Editor
Exchange Editor
--Feature Editor
Feature Editor

LaMont Brown
Enip Bowers ---___--
Cartyte Lewis
Scorry McLeop

UeeBiGOSLEN <2 clcsce ose oee na e Asst. Business Mgr.
Vat CASSELS - Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross ____- Asst. Business Mgr.
J. S. McMutien Asst. Business Mgr.
IRF RieMORROW tenes sea ce ono Suse Asst, Business Mgr.

1935

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20,

Truly, this world can get on without us, if we would
but think so.—Lonarr.Liow.

SAIATES rr
W: deem it wise’ at this

time to put before the student body the names of the
candidates that will be eligible for editorship of
The Davidsonian. This is done in advance of the
election so that the voters will be familiar with the
names of the eligible men dnd so that some study
might be made of the past work of each of these
men. The Davidsonian election will come directly
after the Y. M. C. A. elections, ‘

By virtue of their work on this paper for the
past three years, the following men are declared
eligible for editorship:

MARTIN BARNETT
LAMONT BROWN
HARVEY GLASS
PAUL HARLAN
TOM MARCHANT
JOHN WALKER

Managing editors for next year will be elected

from the rising Junior Class by the present manag-
ing editors. :

McCLURE TO SERVE

SECOND TERM S
TUDENTS, alumni and

friends of Davidson College will be very glad to

hear that Albert McClure will come back here again

next year as Y. M. C. A. Secretary, the duties of

which job he has so successfully discharged this
year,

“Ab” or “Mac” as he is commonly known on the
campus, graduated from Davidson with the class of
‘31. The next three years he spent at Union Theo-
logical Seminary preparing for the ministry. -When
he came here last Fall he was somewhat at a dis-
advantage, due to the fact that he knew hardly any
of the students. In past years this job has been
filled by a man who had graduated from Davidson
only one or two years previous which made it pos-
sible for him to renew old acquaintances with stu-
dents who were in school at least a year while he
was. However, this did nat prove to be much of
a handicap to Albert McCure. His job as “Y” Sec-
retary brought him in contact with many students,
and his friendly and jovial personality was quick to
win for him many friends. Today he is popularly
known by practically everyone on the campus,

His first year’s work has been very successful.
His years of experience have been more than help-
ful to those who have gone to him for guidance and
advice. He has earnestly and faithfully endeavored
with the “Y” Cabinet in all its problems.

The Y. M. C. A. is indeed fortunate in Securing
for another year the services of a man so well fitted

for the position and we wish him continued success
in his work here next year.

WE CAN BLAME IT ON
SPRING FEVER NOW

; As Davidson is
~in-the country, spring is the most delightful part of
all the year”—so reads a college authority.

And in many ways our author is right. The ap-
Proach of the vernal equinox brings new life to a

’

. multitude of campus activities. Once again the ten-
nis court and baseball diamond claim large numbers,
the links gain new adherents, and track demands
its share of student attention.

True, we no longer indulge in such bucolic sports
as horseshoes or marbles, but the gullies invite ex-
ploration, and the omnipresent ‘‘bull session” calls
us. Everywhere there is 4 wholesome exuberance,
an interest in the world outdoors, and feeling of
relief, an escape from the pent-up existence of a
rainy winter.

This is an excellent spirit and conducive to good
health. A love of nature is extremely beneficial to
physical well being, but there is a tendency on the
part of many of our students to love nature just a
little bit too fiercely.

All play and no work certainly do not “male
jack,” neither do they prepare us for that vocation.
And theoretically college is supposed to prepare one
for making a living. When one’s love of nature,
love of anything else, leads to a day-long distant
or an all night “bull session” oh the dormitory porctey
we feel that he has a little too much of a good thnig.

To get to the heart of the matter, a certain very
insidious disease is now raging on the campus with
a wholly demoralizing effect on the field of scholastic
endeavour. We are suffering from an epidemic of
spring fever.

Were it possible-to-gtrard-against-the-attack-of-this
monster by innoculation, our problem would be
Solved. Unfortunately no serum yet discovered has
any effect on spring fever bacilli. The most indus-
trious and unsuspecting are subject to violent at-
tacks of this malady, without a moment’s notice.
Often accompanied by marked soporific tendencies,
it always results in long periods of enforced ‘idle-
hess, together with a curious combination of lassi-
tude and apathy.

Will-power and a grim determination are the
only remedies in such a case. If you have not yet
fallen victim, by all means gird for battle and pre-
pare to stave off this menace to intellectual and
even (in the advanced stages) physical development.

There is no logical reason why the middle of the
second semester should mark the beginning of a
scholastic decline. We have no valid excuse for re-
maining on the proverbial dime, sleeping while Rome
burns, to the total neglect of those duties which are,
after all, our chief reason for being here.

Now is ‘the time for all good men to snap out of
it! Come on, prove to the faculty and world at
large that Davidson men can not only “take it”,
but “dish’it out”!

PARAGRAPHICS

Congratulations to Carlton Chapman, Carl Carl-
son, Tom Corbin, and Kiesewetter on their recent
election. We feel that the student body has made
wise choices in all these men. Chapman's job as
president of the student body is one that is exceed-
ingly difficult, but we have confidence in his ability.

Being president of the student body entails far
greater responsibility than merely reading announce-
ments during the chapel hour, It carries with it re-
sponsibilities of a serious and varied nature which
are really more than one man should have to bear.

Apparently, the Junior Class last week-end were
quite a success. We do not understand, however,
why this set of dances should continue to be called
“Junior Speaking”. There was a time when the
name really meant what it implies, but under: the
present circumstances the word “speaking” does
not have the least connection with the week-end of
dancing.

We would like to bring an old issue to life again.
Some time ago, there appeared in an editorial in
The Davidsonian requesting that the library be kept
open on Saturday nights. The request was granted
and the library was kept open two or three Satur-
day nights, but after that, the new policy was soon
discontinued for some unknown reason. Although
only a relatively small number of students used the
library on the Saturday nights it was kept open,
it met with popular approval. We still see no rea-
son why the library shouldn’t be kept open on Sat-
urday nights.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

Bothered by students who continually requested
a certain record to be played, David Burne, Uni-
versity of Arkansas (Fayetteville), announcer at
station KUOA, Fayetteville, ended it all by smashing
the record over the mike. The piece was “I Need
Lovin.”

Gertrude Stein (a rose is etc.) recently had her
first experience as a debate chairman at the Univer-
sity of Chicago.

It will be “Hell on Earth” at the Lafayette Col-
lege (Easton, Pa.) Junior Prom. At least, that’s
the scene the decorations will depict.

Sally Rand, of fan dance fame, was once a stu-
dent in the school of journalism at Columbia Uni-
versity (New York City).

C'OMPASSING
lA,

CAMPUS

By Scorry McL£op

The juniors are through making their
speeches. Bill Allsbrook won the grand
Munroe
Munroe spoke in
honeyed tones before an amazed audi-
Allsbrook made
He had
more volume than Munroe, but less dis-
Several of the debates
reached a heated point after the affair,
but all were reminded that the judge's
decision is final,

prize as speaker, but Geddie
was a close second.

ence at the Armory;
quite a number of speeches.

tinct articulation.

Charlotte city’s new  dip-the-finger
joint for frollicking collegians is the
Wooden Bowl. The Sons of Minerva,
as Wimpy Ravenel calls the S. A. E,
lodge, held a¢hanquet there’ on Saturday
eve at which they practically initiated
Skip Brown, Hippo Heggie, and several
others,

Ras famous dash man,
turned to the old Alma Mater for the
week-end.

Evans, re-
Other. alumni on tap were
Wee Willie Walser, one of the original
Country Gentlemen; Flash Ormond, now
studying for the ministry in Richmond ;
Jeff Robbins, who is working for the
Raleigh,
and M. B. Wallace, Brewster Grant.

government alphabet-clubs in

We have just been reading Miss C. R.
Shaw's history of Davidson College, an
interesting story of the “origin, growth
and development” of the school. There
are several in the alumni office for read-
ers who don't know how Davidson got
this way.

Three Taps at Twelve will be featured
hy the Red and Black Masquers Friday
night. Some of the Bzrrymores are
Field Horine, Tred Purnell, Dick Hillier,
Joe. Dees, and Sky Cline. It will be
a murder headliner and should present
thrills. Hope that Davidson orchestra
(Billie Crooks, Chubby King, et al) will
be there for intermission.

Fort and Blackwelder are getting off
to big-time competition, leaving today for
Lehigh University where they will show
the national college wrestlers’ group just
what they can do. Champions in North
Carolina, these two should be in on the
pinning at Lehigh,

One of the closest election races in
many years has just ended. Carlton
Chapman succeeds Skip Brown as presi-
dent of the college group. Last year
Brown was elected on the first ballot by
an overwhelming stack of votes. Very
seldom is there a class where one man
stands out so predominantly as Brown
in the class of '35. Chapman will be
an able successor.

Monday afternoon a fire of unknown

origin blazed up in Willie Coffin’s room
on third-floor Watts.
the room, and burst into laughter at
aH the burning clothes; he thought it
was Atwater's room. Suddenly he real-
ized that the room was his own, and
made a frantic rush to douse the blaze,
being assisted by Salty Peters and other
hangers-around.

Recent Greek elections will put Bill
Coffin on the Pan-Hellenic Council for
the Betas next year, and Reggie Harris
will represent the Kappa Alphas on the
inter-fraternity body.

Lib Neill, of Marion, copped high
honors in the beauty lontest of Junior
Speaking. She was with Ray Richard-
son, ladies’ man of the Phi Delts. Other
girls who received votes were Jane
Hashagen, Jane Robinson, Nancy Tal-
bert (Herb Willis voted for her), and
Jane Ellen Taylor. Numerous others,
of course. Beda Carlson and Jane Shel-
ton were in the running. =

Dean Dobie, of the University of Vir-
vinia, gave us a pleasant variation from
the usual chapel program yesterday
morning. His infinite resources in the
field of law and language were displayed
in one of the most entertaining talks
we have heard. Aside from its value

as good entertainment, the discourse was |

decidedly instructive to every college
mind, particularly those who plan a legal
career, What we want and need at Da-

vidson is more speakers like Dean Dobie.

Coffin walked in} .;

OUR

ontemporartes
By Eni Bowers

Hal Kemp-Glen Gray To Play
at W & L Finals

Hal Kemp and his orchestra will play
for the first two days of Finals, and
Glen Gray and his Casa Loma Band
will take their places for the final ball
on June 7th. The blanket cost of the
set will be $10.00 until May 15th, then
the price will be raised to $13.50.
“Rah-Rah” Era in Colleges Past

“The rah-rah boy of yesterday,” long
considered typical on the American cam-
pus, has taken his place in the gallery
of dead Americana along with the flap-
per and speakeasy. His place on the
campuses of colleges and universities in
the United States has been taken by a
more serious-minded person who is am-
bitious and hard working. Dr. Walter
A, Jessup, president of the Carnegie
Foundation, in its annual report char-
acterizes the modern student as a “se-
rious-minded person who gives intelli-
gent codperation’ to every progressive
move.”
Not Much Choice

The University of Manitoba recently
had a debate on the question, “Is an
old maid more useful on a farm than a
wheelbarrow?” After a heated battle the
old maid lost by three votes.

y Hangs on to Duelin
Marked popularity of university sports

is still lacking in Germany. At the pres-
ent date students consider dneling the
only sport worthy of their efforts. Uni-
versity sports were first introduced into
Germany about fourteen years ago by
ex-soldiers,
Origins For Popular Sayings

I am. strong for you, kid—Samson;
You can’t keep a good fellow down—
Jonah; The bigger they are the harder
they fall—David; So this is Paris!—
Helen of Troy; I don’t know where
I’m going but I am on my way—Colum-
bus; Keep the home fires burning—
Nero; It floats—Noah; Keep your shirt
on—Queen Elizabeth to Sir Walter Ra-
leigh; Step on it, kid—Sir Walter Ra-
leigh to her.
Whence Cameth the Harvard Accent?

Even Harvard is puzzled by the enig-
matic problem: whence comes the “Har-
vard accent”? But the puzzle will soon
be solved, for authorities there are re-
ported to be ready to make phonograph
records of the speech of entering fresh-
men and then again when they gradu-
ate.

Bread and Butter
A chemistry professor at Harvard re-

cently won a bet that he could eat his
shirt. He dissolved the garment in acid.
filtered off the precipitate and spread
it on a piece of bread.

What Next? i
At the Ohio State University they

have invented a machine for grading
exam papers. The student merely
punches out his answers to the questions
on a score card, which is sent through
the machine. The machine scores each
question, prints the number of mistakes
znd makes a complete record of the stu-
dents who missed each point.

Sabotage bs eae ea
Aha! American students in Germar

universities, it is said, when forced to
salute Hitler demonstrations, raise their
hands and shout, “Heel, Hitler.”
Dartmouth Requests

Through State
Capital Keyholes

By Bess Hinton Si.ver

SMART—A lot of folks think pro-
ponents of the Hill liquor bill played a
smart hand when they sent the measure
to the Senate finance committee for re-
consideration. It is pointed out that the
state revenue and appropriations bills
are about. two million dollars out of bal-
ance and legislative pay has ended,
Some observers believe the liquor bill,
which would permit twelve or more
counties to vote for state-operated liquor
stores, will repose in the money com-
mittee until the anticipated 100-day dead-
lock on the revenue bill occurs. Then
the Hill bill could be trotted out to bal-
ance the budget for the next two years. :
Already pending is an amendment which
would put liquor taxes and profits in the
general state instead of earmarking it
for relief purposes as set forth in the
bill.

TALKS AGAINST VOTE—It_ was
generally agreed that Senator Horton,
of Chatham, made the most unusual talk
on the Hill liquor bill in the Senate.
The Chatham lawmaker said he was vot-
ing against the measure because his con-
stituents seemed to want it, but warned
drys that they “must take their heads
out of the sand and face the true facts”
concerning liquor conditions in this state.
He said he was disappointed in the small
votes cast in the 1933 repeal election
but added he did not propose to take it
upon himself to do for the people what
they failed to do for themselves when
the opportunity was at hand.

lege recently endorsed three curriculum
reforms: a course in marriage, abolition
of the present marking system, and un-
limited cuts from classes.

Education a La Nazi
The German universities were the

most famous in the world about 50
years ago, and they were almost as re-
nowned two years ago, but now they
have ‘sunk to a terribly low ebb, accord-
ing to The Richmond Times-Dispatch.
Few subjects can be studied in Germany
today without running afoul of Nazi
doctrine at one point or another. A law
was enacted recently which empowers
the government to transfer professors
from one university to another when-
ever it .wishes to do so.

Collegiana:
McClelland Barclay has accepted the

invitation to judge the -beauty section
for The Citadel annual this year . . .
The University of Virginia has organ-
ized a police corps with two divisions,
one for the protection of the students
from theft and the other for the pro-
tection of college property . . . An or-
ganization known as “The Stray Greeks”
has been started at Purdue for men and
women transfers who were members of
Greek letter organizations not repre-
sented on the campus .. . While work-
ing in the Tulane University Medical
School dissecting laboratory, a student
discovered his father’s head... A Co-
lumbia University correspondent reports
that a statistician claims that nine out
of every ten women are knock-kneed
past into the present-day college, closely
linked with the practices of primitive
peoples.”

... “Initiations, hazing, hell weeks and
the like,” explain two sociology profes-

The Senior class of Dartmouth Col-

sors, “obviously reach down from the

‘Org was NEWS...” ofYeare Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

class team wins intramural
track meet... Athletic Night to be held
. President of student body elected
. Baseball season opens with game
Dr.

Junior

with Georgetown University .
McAllister speaks at vespers . . . Chap-
ter of national honorary German so-
ciety to be organized . . . Joan Craw-
ford in Montana Moon .. . Golf team
gets in shape . . . Frank Price visits

campus ... Faculty team loses to var-
sity golfers . . . Forensic Council elects
officers.

TEN YEARS AGO “
D Club holds initiations . . . Golf team

to meet Georgia Tech . .. Freshman
baseball squad shows promise . . . Track
team gets in shape . . . Fraternities to
build own houses .. . Y president elected

. . . Union Seminary deputation to Da-
vidson ... Annual soph banquet in Char-
lotte . . . Tennis tournament in process
. . . Twenty-three make honor roll . . .
Phi Beta Kappa elect four . . . Basket-
ball men awarded letters.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Davidson host to N. C. - Volunteer

Union . . , Golf tournament to be held
. . . Government inspector visits R. O.
T. C. department . . . Baseball team gets
in shape for first game . . . Shields pub-
lishes music of “O Davidson . . . Magi-
cian appears on lyceum program. . .
Elect editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian
+ ++ Sixteen-games booked for* baseball
season . . . Golf club elects officers . . .
Sunday School attendance contest nears
close . . O. D. K. initiates five .. .

Plan war memorial.

Commencement Invitations

Fraternity Publications

{

es

K. D. WEEKS

Fine Printing.

QUEEN CITY
PRINTIN

1143 E. FOURTH ST.‘

e
Representatives

Visiting Cards

Personal and Fraternity Stationery

G CO.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.,

JOE WADSWORTH

————————
