THE DAVIDSONIAN,

JANUARY 30, 1935

BISHOP KEAN. (s
VEOPER LEADER

Noted Methodist Dignitary Speaks
At Two Sunday Services,
January 20

Bishop Paul B. Kern of the Methodist
Church, who conducted the morning
service Sunday, January 20, was also the
speaker at the Vesper service that eve-
ning.

Bishop Kern, a native’ of Alexandria,
Virginia, took his undergraduate work at
Randolph-Macon College and at Vander-
bilt University. Since that time he has
had a varied career in church work and
teaching. In 1915 he was made a pro-
fessor in the Theological Department of
Southern Methodist University and later
dean of the Theological School of that
university. Bishop Kern was elected a
bishop of the Methodist Church in 1930.

At the Vesper service, Walter Sprunt,
president of the Y. M. C. A., presided,
and Bob Coit led in prayer. Special
music was furnished by the glee club.
Bishop Kern selected as his scripture
parts of the twenty-first chapter of Rev-
elations, which gives the picture of
heaven. This particular part emphasized
by the speaker deals with the gates of
heaven, and the fact that they shall -al-
ways remain open. Bishop Kern then
pointed out that there were four different
approaches to heaven or, in other words,
to religion—ritualism, reason, emotion-
alism, and volition. Some people feel
that the ritual or ceremony of the church
is a sine qua Non, while others must
reason out all before attaining unques-
‘tioning belief. Still others need an ap-
peal to the emotions such as the revival,
while another type. gains. religion by
sheer will.

Undergrads Select
All-American Team

Bierman’s Minnesota Gophers
Receive More Mentions Than
Any Other Team —

For the first time in the history of in-
tercollegiate football, the undergraduates
of the nation—the bull-session “experts”
and “Monday morning coaches” of fra-
ternity and dormitory houses—have
chosen their own all-American football
team, and they agree with the selections
of the professional experts only a little
better than 50 per cent of the time.

The thousands of college men and
women from all sections of the country
who sent in their “bests” in a nation-
wide all-American poll, results of which
are announced in today’s issue of Col-
legiate Digest, chose the following men
as the outstanding football players of
the 1934 season:

Captain
Minnesota.

and Fullback—Pug Lund,
Halfbacks—Fred Borries, Navy; and
Duane Purvis, Purdue.
Quarterback—Bobbie Grayson, Stan-
ford.
Center—Jack Robinson, Notre Dame.

Guards—George Barclay, North Caro-
lina; and Regis Monahan, Ohio State.

Tackles—Larry Lutz, California; and;

Bill Lee, Alabama.

Ends—John Pennypacker,’ Pennsyl-
vania; and Frank Larson, Minnesota.

Bernie Bierman’s championship Min-
nesota Gophers received more mentions
for the various positions on the team
than any other single gridiron aggrega-
tion. In fact they received such wide
recognition from students in all sections
of the country that they undoubtedly. are
the national champions of the students
in the 250 colleges and universities who
participated in the poll.

Despite the great scattering of votes
for favorites from various sections of
the country, those who were voted in
final place on the team received an
overwhelming number of ballots in their
favor. The “hero” of all of the col-
legians in the past season was Francis
“Pug” Lund, of Minnesota, who received
more votes than any other player in the
country.

A team of true leaders, the all-Ameri-
can eleven selected by the collegians in-
cludes men who are individual stars on
their own teams, and'’more than half of
whom are captains of their own teams.

Maydanis Disappointed
In Lecturer’s Address

Andreos Maydanis, local restauranteer
of “Little Pep” fame, attended the lec-
ture by Robert E. Roth on “Alaska” in
Chambers auditorium last Monday night.

Along about eight thirty Mr. Maydanis
(better known as “Andy’”) returned to
his cafe very much chagrined. When
questioned about his attitude by a late
diner, he gave the following~ excuse:

“Some of da’ boys at sup’r tonite talk
about 't. I go to watch da boys vote
at da ‘lection but ‘wasn’t ‘lection _’t’all.
Was’a lecturur. . . . I didn’t geta to
vote!”

Collegiate Tally
Reveals Increase

(Continued from Page 3)
Where R. O. T. C. is optional, there
seems to be less of a problem than where
it is required. In some of the colleges
which report no R. O. T. C. units, re-
quests for optional military training
courses have been made.

One editor points out that “students
are getting ‘fed up’ on the extreme radi-
calism of the ‘peace at any price’ group,
which consists of a small group of so-
cialist pacifists.” Another suggests that
“a period of compulsory military service
in return-for the protection offered by
the Government should be served by
every young man, but this should not be
administered through the colleges of the
country.”

At one school, the editor lists the fol-
lowing as evidences of the increased
sentiment in favor of peace: “riots,
strikes, demonstrations, protest meeting,
boycotts, suspensions, expulsions, proba-
tions, and censorships.”

Class discussions have centered on the
problem of peace, one editor declares. At
this college, the students all heartily dis-
approved of the United States disarming,
because of the dangers involved.

“Students are discussing the problem
more freely, and seemingly with almost
unanimous disapproval of war,’ a col-
lege president observes, whilé another
feels that along with an increasing senti-
ment for peace “there is a feeling that
the United States should be always ade-
quately prepdred for non-aggressive
war.”

“I personally feel that if it were not
for the waste of time in the course, (mili-
tary training), it would be fine to keep
it up because students are so opposed to
it that unknown to the instructors they
are inculcating a spirit of anti-militarism

in the students,” another college presi-
dent declares.

Differing from the opinion of the last
president quoted is the following state-
ment, also by a college president: “I
have given careful attention to the
courses of instruction imparted in the
military division of the university, and
in no sense do I believe that they tend
to incline the mind of our youth tow-
ards war as a solution of our national
problems. In special reference to the
R. O. T. C., I find that the military train-
ing whose benefits are desired by the
state authorities tends in a very real
sense to lead our youth to an apprecia-
tion of the necessity for wholesome liv-
ing and to impart the ideals of truthful-
ness, honor, and self-sacrifice which may
again be of great use in preserving the
free institutions of both our state and
nation.”

“Everyone desires peace, but few see
any proper relation between this and ob-
struction of the federal program for nat-
tional defense as represented by R. O. T.
C. This modest and inoffensive civilian
organization for military training could
be regarded as the most effective peace
organization at this university,” states
another college head.

(By Associated Collegiate Press)
Waterville, Me.—Five or more gen-
erations of American ancestry are one of
the requirements for 20 new hundred-
dollar scholarships to be awarded an-
nually by Colby College beginning next
fal, it has been announced here.
“ This unusual requirement is due to a
stipulation in the will of Charles Potter
Kling who left the sum of $50,000 to
Colby College for the specific purpose of

providing scholarship aid to “needy male,
students of American Colonial or Revo- |

lutionary ancestry.”

Mr. Kling was a strong believer in the
historic New England tradition and thus

wished to promote the welfare of young
people representing that type of back-
ground, as well as to strengthen this
early New England college. Besides this
specific bequest for scholarship endow-
ment, Mr. Kling left to Colby a share
of his residual estate which, according to
unofficial estimates, will amount to be-
tween half and three-quarters of a mil-
lion dollars. .

Applicants for the Kling scholarships
will be required to present genealogical
proof that one or more ancestors resided
in one of the American Colonies before
1776, or seryed as a soldier in the Con-
tinental armies of the American Revolu-
tion.

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Swarthmore, Pa.—Yale, Harvard and
Princeton students were awarded nine of
the 1935 United States Rhodes Scholar-
ships, according to the list announced by
President Frank Aydelotte of Swarth-
more College, American Secretary to the
Rhodes The 32 awards are
still subject to ratification by the Rhodes
Trustees.

Trustees.

Yale lead with four students placed,

with Harvard second with three, and
-Princeton third with two. ‘Twenty-three
other school had one representative
each,

Each scholarship carries with it a sti-
pend of 400 pounds annually for two
years study at Oxford.

Mock Court Martial

Creates Excitement
(Continued from Page 3)

The case then went before the jury
and Reilly Rogers in a flowing perora-
tion of his clients virtues, denied each
and every charge. Dapper “Wimp”
Wilentz Ravenel, his eyes flashing, told
the court to find ‘the scoundrel guilty on
every point.

After a 45-minute deliberation by the
court, Major A. J. Potter announced that
the accused had been found guilty on
the first and second counts and not guilty
on the third. He then sentenced Harris
“9 dismissal from the service of the
United States” and announced to the
fearful populace of Davidson that they
could now leave the hen house door un-
locked and let ‘the children stay out
after dark.

Pan-Hellenic Features
Paul Sabin’s Music

(Continued from Page 1)
popular melodies and syncopated rhythms,
whcih are always played in subdued
tones. He is including Davidson in his
tour of Southern Colleges, his first ap-
pearance in the South with the exception
of a Florida engagement.”

The dance Friday night, February 15,
from 9:30 until 2, will be formal. The
tea dance Saturday will be“from 5 until
7 o'clock and the informal dance Satur-

day night will commence at 8:30 and

terminate at midnight. ‘The brilliant
figure which is always a feature of the
formal dance Friday will be arranged
this year by an expert in Charlotte who

excels in this phase of terpischore.

Sabin’s record of engagements for the
past two years is exceedingly creditable:
It includes The Roney Plaza Hotel,
Miami Beach, Florida; Vivian Johnson’s
Exclusive Supper Club, Monmouth
Beach, New Jersey; Westchester Bilt-
more Country Club, Rye, New York; the
famous Hotel Delmonico, New York;
Park Central Hotel, New York; Chase
Hotel, St. Louis, and Tavern-on-the-
Green at Central Park, New York.

At present he is at The Colonnades,
Hotel Gayoso, in Memphis, where he ‘is
broadcasting twice nightly over Station
WMC.

<=
Faculty Members

Attend Convention
(Continued from Page 1)

the four section meetings held on Thurs-
day afternoon. These smaller meetings
gave those particularly interested in any
one phase of educational problems ample
opportunity to meet with others faced
with these particular problems and to
discuss probable solutions for them. The
ever-recurring problems of academic
freedom and academic tenure were
brought to the front in these meetings.

In the report of Dr. Robert Kelly,
Executive Secretary, the speaker made
very complimentary remarks on the
“More and Better Wills Conference”
held here on the campus earlier in the
school year.

The convention was brought to a close
after a brief meeting on Friday morning
entertaining the reports of the sectional
meetings Thursday. The representatives
then drove to Stone Mountain where
they enjoyed the greater part of the
afternoon.

Dr. Walter Lingle will deliver an ad-
dress to the meeting of the Quadrangu-
lars Club on Thursday evening, at which
time he will bring to the faculty his
observations at this, and other educa-
tional meetings he has attended during
the past two months.

aR eceninre

Our
Reputation
Speaks
For Itself
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

so far as we know tobacco
_ first used about 400 years ago

Early Colonial planters
* shipped hundreds of
pounds of tobacco to
England in return for
goods and supplies.

© 1935, Lscasrr & Myzas Tosacco Co,

WAS

Forge.

—throughout the years what one thing has”

They came looking for gold
..- but they found tobacco

~.. and tobacco has been like gold ever since!

The tobacco raised in Virginia and exchanged
for goods helped the struggling colonists to get a
foothold when they came to America.

Later on, it was tobacco that helped to clothe
and feed Washington’s brave army at Valley

Today it is tobacco that helps—more than any
other commodity raised in this country—to pay
the expense of running our Government.

In the fiscal year 1933-34 the Federal
Government collected $425,000,000 from
the tax on tobacco. Most of this came |
from cigarettes — six cents tax on every
package of twenty.
Yes, the cigarette helps a lot—and it certainl

gives men and women a lot of pleasure.
Smokers have several reasons for liking
Chesterfields. For one thing, Chesterfields
are milder. For another thing, they taste
better. They Satisfy.
