THE DAVIDSONIAN,

SEPTEMBER 25,

1935

The Dabidsontan

Founded by the Class of 1915

Associated Golleginte Press
31934 Golleginle Bigest 935°

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as secofid-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March $rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

tees . Editor
Business Manager

LAMONT BROWN
R. P. MORROW

EDITORIAL STAFF

UIM= MORTON Soscccs -Managing Editor
HOWELL QURRTON «cackenudcansce wocwsaa! Managing Editor
HAROLD eS UGG see Sena eel pics eE usec ert Managing Editor
DayMonp TURNER ..-.-------Managing Editor
NOHNEG\WINNeaueGawecuue CR oLccuSsoe cous! Managing Editor
HARRY INUYVRENDALL  ccduuua.cuscecccuc sone. Sports Editor
MARTIN SARNETT. ctauudeciuavsssceas _-Associate Editor
HIRRUbva (GUAGE: Wevducucaalscakweduuneane? soctate Editor
PAUL—HARLAN—cececess ScsccucepauccsscHssocwie Bator
MOMeMAROHANT: ccuceuuccosuucebasctos a {ssociate Editor
NORINGS VWATRER Fea euc So auetuns eee ming Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF ( =
GHARLESPNMAUCE caacecensoccnscccces Cirentation” Afanager

Bint Sworr --Cirenulation Manager
308 VANCE
HID REGROBINSON secs es cela cess
Bigetiinyensssues
Bint. Dyerte -

WEDNESDAY,

.-----.-Circulation Manager
_--dvertising Manager
.--Collection Mamiger

mnt Business Manager

1935,

SEPTEMBER 25,

Wisdom is knowing what to do net. Skill is knowing
how to do it, and virtue is doing it-—David Starr
Jordan.

FRESHMEN, BE MEN...

[re

a freshman has rid himself of the dust of his
journey*to Davidson, he hears it proclaimed about
him that “Davidson is different from other colleges.”
It is quite proper that every new student should be
rientated upon these traditional unusualties, but at
the same time it is equally appropriate that he should
he reminded that Davidson is like every other col-
lege in that it expects its students to be MEN,
loo often emphasis is put upon the ‘‘fresh” in
nan, and in consequence, first year men launch

r college careers with a defensive attitude.

feel almost compelled to be “smart alecky”

fresh in their conduct, when, as a matter of fact,
they are fresh only in the sense that they are new
on the campus.

There will be times during your, initial year that
you,members of the class of 1939 will be strongly
inclined to reply curtly to some seemingly indiscreet
upperclassmen; there will be times when you will
feel almost compelled to overstep: the bounds of
Davidson freshmen; you will often’ be tempted to
take part in such unpleasant conduct as “booing”
and “hissing,” that, unfortunately, some prep school-
ish members of the student-body persistently engage
themselves, and there will be many other tempta-
tions arising to lure you away from the path of a
college gentleman. These are the things that the
army would call means of “separating the men from
the boys,” and without mama or papa here to choose
for you it is entirely a matter to be settled by your-
self, So take this as a greeting of suggestion, not
advising vou, but reminding you that Davidson ex-
pects you to be freshMEN, always remembering
that you are yet novices on the college campus, but
at the same time realing that you are part of Da-
vidson, and are striving to become real Davidson

MIEN,

PASS ITON...

“Wildcat spirit” is a household expression among
Davidson alumni and students. It is a tradition of
which Davidson is proud and for which she is known
throughout the southland.

It is a real thing that can only be acquired by
constant association with those who have absorbed
its intangible overwhelming power. Sophomores,
Juniors and Seniors should be possessed with this
indomitable spirit, and it behooves them to. pass’ it
on to the first year men, who are anxious to sense
the feeling that one has when he is filled with this
indescribable animation,

Davidson would be lost at times without such a
wonderful motivating force to carry her forward
in the face of apparently insurmountable odds.
“Wildcat spirit” is a great dynamo of collected
human minds and wills, that generates. an irresis-
table current giving to Davidson illumination and
power.

It is immeasureable in its scope and invaluable in
its strength, and for any man to come to Davidson
and not realize the presence of this unequaled spirit

in himself is like traveling through western United
States without seeing the Grand Canyon.

Let’s pass it on to the neophytes on the Davidson
campus in order that it might continue to be the
grand nexus in which all Davidson, past and pres-
ent, might-be united.

RUSHING—A NEW IDEA...

This editorial is not an attempt toward offering
any fool-proof, flawless plan for rushing season,
but it is intended as merely the suggestion of a sys-
tem that has been heartily approved by several very
level headed men on the Davidson campus as an
improvement over the course followed during the
immediately past rush period.

In many schools the old type fall-rushing-pledg-
ing process is being changed. This is due very largely
to the fact that casualties have been ‘entirely too
numerous and costly. Kraternities, in spite of their
usual strenuous opposition to delayed pledging, are
finding that it is a good practical policy to have more
time to look over their potential brothers before
casting the final die. And freshmen, or rushees,
given a semester or two to come to their own con-
clusions regarding the worth of fraternities indi-
vidually and collectively, will be in a position to give
or withhold loyalty with something like conscious
judgment.

Chapters at Davidson may not be bothered with
this problem to any great extent, but it certainly
seems reasonable to assume that a man can't get a
fair idea of the life and conduct of a fraternity in

tthe short period that Davidson rush seasons allow,

nor is the lodge itself able to size up perfectly the
qualities of a man being considered for bidding.

There are other angles toward which the delayed
rushing plan could be approached, but with the above
mentioned idea in mind, you can place around it
the many factors that are involved in the whole rush-
ing system, If a man is going to have three months
in which to form an opinion concerning the frater-
nity with which he will choose to be for four years,
his thoughts regarding it can be weighed with the
utmost care. [le can put himself imaginatively in the
various kgups and in most cases see just exactly
how he would fit in with them all. He can learn about
the standing of the fraternities on the campus, and
see the members as they are, naturally, To boil the
whole situation into one sentence, he will be able to
choose his fraternity in an intelligent fashion rather
than by tying himself to the group he saw last or
the one he had planned to join before he came to
college, because some member he knew back in
Plum Nellie, told him that those boys had the most
money, the most parties, or the girls like them bei-
ter than auy ouier fraternity group on the hill.

Qf course, someone might say that the fraterni-
ties would have_to rush all semester, and consge-
quently an Sutescit expense burden would be laid
upon every chapter. If the plan were inaugurated
without rules fo hold it within bounds of reason
tremendous amounts of money, could and would be
expended, but the idea in mind provides for very
stringent rules in this respect.

As was stated at the outset, no claims of infalli-
bility are made of this idea, but it is submitted asa
better means of rushing than is now employed on
the Davidson campus.

It is firmly believed that if the deferred plan
could be worked at Davidson, with the following
regulations, it would prove to be a very much better
system than any Iftretofore used:

1. No rushee will be permitted to enter any fra-
ternity house, between the date that classes begin
for the first semester and the date that they begin
for the second semester. x

-2. No fraternity will be permitted to have any
sort of function on or off the campus at which
rushees are present. ”

3. The actual rushing period shall not exceed
three days, and no fraternity will be permitted to
rush any man off the college campus during this
period. :

4+. For violation of any of the above regulations
a fraternity will be subject to fine, at the discretion
of the Pan-Hellenic council.

ther minor rules could be added, but these give
an idea of the plan as it has been successfully tried
on other campuses and as I believe it could be equally
as well worked out here at Davidson.

TAKE EXERCISE...

According to the present faculty rule, all Juniors
and Seniors who are not taking R. O. T. C., are re-
quired to call by Heath Whittle’s office at least once
a month and sign a pledge to the effect that they have
taken an hour’s exercise, in any form of athletics,
at least three times a week.

Attention has been called to the-fact that last year
a number of students failed to get in their exercises
but signed up anyway. Whether this can be attrib-
uted to dishonesty or carelessness is not our con-
cern at present. However, we do feel that where a
person fails to realize the benefits that will be his in
building up a strong body, something should be done
to point out his folly. Gentlemen—take advantage of
this splendid opportunity. You benefit greatly.

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

By HAROLD SUGG

A short ten days ago two hundred
and fifty-five freshmen trickled into
Davidson and were cordially hailed by
(1) Rushing Chairmen and (2) Board-
ing managers: the “epitome of
congeniality and the acme of friendli-
ness. Midst such favorable welcome,
stood before the vista of a college life.
fraught with football games, laundry-
carrying, bull-sessions and Christmas
holidays. No doubt, many will be sur-
prised to learn that one studies at col-
lege and thinks seriously, motion pic-
tures to the contrary.

House

255

Russian season ended with 115
pledges, 211 bad colds and very
little ‘seeing red” in contrast with
last. year’s ill-feeling. The length
this year was about right, altho
rushing should be banned as vio-
lating the gambling law. Seven
freshmen refused bids because
they had always heard Phi Beta
Kappa was the best fraternity and
they wanted to wait and look them
over. Judging by the b

Let’s Have A Well Rounded Year

pledged by some of the lodges,

several Greek orders are in need

of new furniture.

Davidson men, ever gregarious, were
seen together in quite a few spots this
summer. Twenty-nine of the good boys
were jammed together in that sweltering
of humanity-trying-to-be-happy :
the June Germain in Rocky Mount. It
was a great affair and among the number
were Johnny Moseley, with his charming
brunette cousin; Bill Yelverton,
Howell, Tom Corbin, Reg Harris, George
Mathis and Johnson. Davidson's
colony at Myrtle Beach rose and_ fell
with the week-ends. Dave Sellars had
more of a good time than anyone else.
Morris Peabody spent his time Chasing
tivens,

mass

Biscoe

Job

up and down the beach and Ed
in his off hours, worked at a Chinese
Junk The Covington Ed
Armfield, ‘Tom Breeden, John Partridge,
Mal Grimes and Charlie Thompson were
there intermittently.

Not so gregariously
were Henry Belk, Bob Lindsay
and Howard Summerell. Henry
went to Europe; Lindsay—digni-
fied BMOC—was bellhop on a Ha-
vana, Panama, California bound
liner, and Summerell
South America. Howard is the guy
who told a freshman that ‘‘Green-
ville, North Carolina, is the big-
gest town of its size in the state.”

A number of students stayed over to
how the serial “The Lost City,”
ended, Queerly enough, the hero married
the heroine, the villain repented and the
cause of the trouble, “The Lost City,”
was destroyed with the arch-field, Zola.
Our old friend, Bill Atwater, was Presi-
dent of the Student Body and we find
Sam Hutaff Student Councilling. Bud
Hardin of lag Moose (Banner Elk) was
one of the horse-shoe champings and all
in all, it was “a successful summer ses-

shop. Joys,

inclined

went to

see

sion.

It was a merry summer in more
ways than one. Grier Martin got
married as did our YMCA director,
Ab McClure. Tyler Port learns
that even excellent announcing has
its drawbacks. He had a girl down
for the Elon game who came after
the kickoff and left immediately
after the game. By talking real fast
Tyler was able to finish in time to
tell her good-bye. My mail box
is like a convent. No Mail.

HASH ~

As indefinite as a
the faculty reception. A. J. Stevens, Bis-
coe Howell, Billy Hill and Bob Lindsey
at the Kappa Sig convention in Rich-
mond, Lamont Brown at the SAE con-
clave at Evanston. Carl Carlson and
John Moseley at the Baer-Braddock

freshman’s name at

Over One Hundred
At Summer School

The’ session of summer school held for
six weeks last summer was considered
unusually successful. One hundred and
fifteen students were registered during
the period from June seventh to July
nineteenth. This is an increase of eigh-
teen percent over the registration of the
1934 session.

During the six weeks’ ten
-courses were given. Bible, English, Geog-
raphy, Zoology, French, Mathematics,
Spanish, Physics, and Political Science
were taught by Professors Schenck, Er-
win, Porter, Lyon, Bailey, McGavock,
Blythe, Douglas, and Currie respectively.
An. addition to the usual summer school
faculty, Miss Alma Browning, teaching
Education, was heartily welcomed. This
extra course was an improvement over
former summer sessions held by David-

period,

son College.

OUR
ontemporartes

DEFINITION...

We are indebted to the DUKE
CHRONICLE for the following gem:
“Freshman—noun; a male or female
spending time and money in a concen-
tration camp known as a college; one of
mature body but juvenile mind; an ego-
tist by, nature; synonyms: rat, frosh,

Mr. (or Miss) Dumbjohn.”
RESTRICTION ...

And, lest our local neophytes feel mis-
treated, we append rat rules from some
institutions. dt Duke: the
year men must not wear any prep school

other first
jewelry, walk on the grass, sit down in
lobby while orchestra is playing after
take’ football
games. They must. among other things,
come to the dining room fully dressed
and be
ute speech at any time.
SUR

THE REVEILLE regula-
tions set up by a Junior Class Vigilance
cominittee. All freshmen must have mil,
itary
black socks and black ties; use the pre-
sors ta oMy#;- at-
tention when addressing upperclassmen;

evening meal, dates to

prepared to give a three min-

announces

haircuts; wear freshman caps,

fix and and) come to
knock .on upperclassmen’s doors before
entering. Also they must remain in rooms
during study hours, leaving only with
permission of ag Cadet Officer or Cadet
etfect
until after the Tulane game. In event of

Sergeant. These decrees are in
a Tulane victory, they remain in, force
until after the Christmas holidays.
FASHION NOTE...

THE JOHNSONIAN tells of the
Freshman who wrote Dr. Phelps to ask
whether she should shirt-tail
in or out. The reply is not given. From
the we that
blouses will be permitted at Winthrop
this year

wear her

same source learn colored

in pastel shades only.
HERE ’N THERE...

“When you graduate from the school
of ,experience, your diploma is a tomb-
stone” blurbs the A. S. T. C. APPA-
LACHIAN, .. The Honorable Josephus
United States
Mexico, offers a medal

Daniels, Ambassador to
for the best es-
say on some phase of American journal-
ism contributed to THE WAKE FOR-
EST STUDENT, monthly literary pub-
lication of the Baptist college. The
following trousers regulation prevail on

fight. “Hammy" Peters of Armour and
Company. “Demon” ‘Turner, “Martin
Barnett and Phifer Erwin at the SPE
gathering in Denver, Oldtimers return:
Jim) Morgan, Wingfield, John
Newton, A. J. Potter, Wimpy Ravenel,
K. D. Weeks, Duke
Wyche. Florida Freshman:
ble!”

Boody

Ben
“Obblegob-

Glasgow,

“Compare The NEWS”

From DAVIDSONIANS
of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

The Davidson Wildcats smothered
Elon in opening grid contest by a score
of 38-0. . . Student enrollment is largest
on record with six hundred and nineteen
attending Davidson. . . Rushing Season
will Friday night ending a two
week period. Davidson, Wildcats to
clash with N, C. State Saturday for the
first night game. ever played by the Da-
vidSon team, . . Rev, H. G. Bedinger,
che ‘11, is ng As esident of Flora
Macdoyald College at Red Springs, suc-
ceeding Dr. C. G. Vardell, Class of '88.

. Student Store has completed the new
organizatign.
TEN YEARS AGO

Davidson Wildcats defeated Elon—by.
a score of 54-0, Nick Sappenfield, quar-
terback of the team and president of the
Student Body, was injured in the first

close

quarter of the game. . . Marion Bruce
“Monk” Mattox of Leesville, Va., and
former star on W. & L. teams, was

added to the coaching staff as Freshmen
football coach. . . The Freshman foot-
hall team is rounding into shape and the
prospects look good. . . Seven men are
awarded the Golden Quills by the mem-
bers of the Reporters Club. . . Fall Ten-
nis tournament to open next Monday.
FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Fifty eight Freshmen, aspiring to be
orators, were initiated into the Literary
Societies. The Wildcats will meet
N. C. State in first game of the season.
... RL. Rogers will be Major in com-
mand of the R.O.T.C, Battalion, . . Dr.
Martin spoke to the students at the “Y”
Vespers on, “What shall my life work
be?” Six men were initiated into
Delta Pi Kappa, journalistic fraternity.

A modern up-to-date laundry has

been erected just behind Georgia Dorm-
itory. Dr. Frazer Hood, prominent
professor of Psychology, is a distinctive
addition to Davidson's faculty.

the campus of Missouri School ‘of
Mines: “The of course, may
wear anything they please; Juniors, any-
thing but whipcord or moleskin; Sopho-
mores, anything but whipcord, moleskin,
or corduroy; and last but not least the
lowly Freshman, who is prohibited from
wearing the above and also khaki, must
just about resort to blue denim to keep
himself covered.” . . . Tea dances were
given at the Ark on four consecutive af-
ternoons last week to assist Duke Fresh-
men in social orientation, .. From P. C.
a BLUE STOCKING columnist, ayers
that a thin man has a longer hangover
than a fat one, tells of the Georgia boy
who was found lugubriously circling a
monument crying: “By George! I'm
walled in!”

the
Seniors,

Cemmencement Invitations

Fraternity Publications

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

Lamont Brown

Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY
PRINTING CO.

Representatives

Visiting Cards

Personal and Fraternity Stationery

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

R. P. Morrow

