THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20,

1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Disest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
gQhCharlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

d-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
cere Worth Carollbs, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN . . .,..- 2 © « Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

JINGIMORTON; wecsaccccccecsonesdccacuuse! Managing Editor

Howett Overton --Managing Editor
EVAROLD SUGO) cucdouscucee --Managing Editor
IDAYMOND: “CURNER: cucaateancuuchaauaacal Managing Editor
JOHN WANN: wdcuiduges bcankaccascaboneal Managing Editor
HARRY KUYKENDALL ...-...22.-...-.--2...Sports Editor
MARTIN: | BARNET. wicca tanbuactescdpenund Associate Editor
HIARVEY= GUASS:scuccuucsodecsctsceaswuses Associate Editor
Paut HARLAN Associate Editor
TOMGMARGHAN Dteseo spel tol Sc ssaeee ses Associate Editor
JOHN @WAUKER: coco ddececucLeccsveucauace Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

GARTERS SMAUZE Eso ose esoralccececkes Circulation Manager
BILGESWOPReccas ce dacassdsubacwaucue Circulation Manager
BODMVANGES cL kcuui Listes os Les oes Circulation Manager
IOKEUROBINSON: cou ccceucccccceacees Advertising Manager

Collection Manager

Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1935

The wicked flee. when no man pursueth; but the
are bold.as a lion, Prov, 28:1.

. }
rignteous

PARAGRAPHICS

Special efforts are being made by Professor Proc-
ter and other members of the science department at
Davidson to improve the exhibits in the college Mu-
seum. Drop by sometime and see the many interest-
ing relics on display there.

* * *

See “Whistling in the Dark,” to be presented next
Monday night by the Red and Black Masquers.
This organization merits student support. It always
renders an entertaining program.

* * *

Paul Pittman, Davidson's triple-threat halfback,
and Dick Johnson, powerful and aggressive guard,
on the Wildcat eleven, should be likely candidates
for positions on the mythical All-State football team
this season. ;

* * *

Davidson's recently selected debating team will ap-
parently be as formidable as others of the past few
years, which is saying right much, for these have
heen the most successful teams to represent the col-
lege in the last four sessions.

x ok ok

NYA. ee

Although it doesn’t seem reasonable to believe that
all of the present government relief policies are
worthy of popular approval, there is one that cer-
tainly is serving a definitely helpful purpose. It is
the National Youth Administration.

President Roosevelt has said of this branch of
emergency relief it was nearest of all to his heart.
And rightly so, because the future value that the
United States will see from it should most assuredly
be recognized, -

Chiefest among the criticism directed toward the
President's relief program has been the undeniable
fact that it is one tremendous, wholesale dole. An
appreciable amount of work and improvements have
come from the numerous government projects, but
many Americans are rightfully convinced that we are
being spoiled and made utterly dependent upon the
national treasury for support.

This is, on the whole, justified and true, but in
the NYA we must claim an exception. A dole for
educational furtherance is always justifiable. Money
spent to lift humanity from the slums of ignorance
avowedly will not spoil the nation. On the other
hand it will render the greatest needed service our
country can supply.

More than two and a half million young students
in America are being helped to educate themselves
by this movement. Of this number Davidson has ap-
proximately one hundred, whom we know need it
and are profiting by it.

Therefore, we defend the National Youth Admin-

istration, as one of the truly great efforts of the Fed-
eral government. Its present service, we think will
be more than. amply repaid in future years by an
increased number of intelligent and patriotic citizens.

KEEP CAMPUS CLEAN... .

No one would knowingly roam the campus wear-
ing soiled linen or with uncombed hair. Very few
men of college age hesitate to wash behind their ears.
Yet a condition exists at Davidson which is analo-
gous to the above mentioned faults.

We refer to the litter of minute pieces of paper
which line our campus walks, especially across the
“D”, where, of all places, our lawns should look their
best. The amount of debris is not serious; it does
not-as yet present a menace to the traditional cam-
pus beauty. Nevertheless, “sloppy” or “messy” are
the only adjectives which adequatelf characterize
such a display.

While sure that this indiscriminate. scattering of
rubbish is due to the carelessness of a small minor-
ity, we feel that it indicates a trait which should be
curbed. If justly proud of our front campus, it be-
hooves all of us to help keep it in a condition worthy
of that pride.

Lack of neatness may soon develop into lack of
civic pride. Trash cans have been placed at con-
venient intervals throughout the grounds. Try to hit
one the next time you throw down that candy wrap-
per. Let’s keep our campus clean!

PATRONIZE ADVERTISERS ....

Just how much do you value your college paper?
Of course the student body as a whole would not
admit a regard for their publication, but the members
of the staff like to feel that it is read and that it does
fill a very definite place on the hill.

Our recent non-appearance, due to some prankish
striker, is a case in point. ‘Apparently the journal
was missed, But did you ever stop to think who, in
the last analysis, makes these pages possible? Who
pays our printing costs nad makes possible our pres-
ent size and standing in the field of collegiate jour-
nalism ? a

Without advertising there would be no DAVID-
SONTIAN, Most newspapers have a definite adver-
tising minimum, without which they cannot go to
press. And certainly no Davidson publications are so
burdened with commercial announcements as_ to
show a profit.

Patronize our advertisers! They furnish the life
blood of our campus publications! If all of us would
remember this when making our purchases, it would
result in larger and more national advertising con-
tracts. The increased income would mean a bigger
and better paper in every respect.

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

EXCURSION TO ATHENS... .

Louisiana State University did things. up right
last week-end when they sent 2000 cadets to the
L. S. U.-Georgia game in Athens. The cadets were
sent with all expenses paid, meals excepted, on a
caravan of special trains from the late Huey Long's
school in Baton Rouge. Tickets on the train and
admission to the game were free due to a “private
donation” to the University.

The cadets were carried in six special trains. All
other students, not cadets, who desired to go were
given a loan by the school, to be paid back in three
installments in December, January, and February.
This was the fulfillment of a plan of Senator Long’s
who announced his intentions last year. L. S. U. won
the game.

BLACKLIST... .

The Emory Wheel, students paper of Emory Uni-
versity announces a blacklist each week of students
drivers guilty of reckless driving on the campus.
This work is done by the Wheel Safety Council in
the hope tHat it will reduce careless driving on the
campus and reduce the danger of accidents.

A junior at Miami University should get the nom-
ination for the workingest college student. He is
carrying 20 study hours a week and auditing one
course. To support himself he works 50 hours a
month on the NYA, is an assistant in the physics
department, grades papers for the mathematics de-
partment and works from seven to midnight every
day in the office of a taxi company!

ROOSEVELT RULES....

In a poll recently conducted by “Pulse of the Na-
tion,” a monthly magazine of opinion, it was found
that editors of college newspapers, magazines, and
yearbooks favor the reelection of President Roose-
velt in, the coming national elections. Returns were
as follows: (announced November 1) Roosevelt—
408 votes, Borah—52, Frank Knox—26, Herbert
Hoover—23, Norman Thomas 23, Governor Alfred
Landon—22, and all other candidates from 1 to 8.
In a separate party poll the number of Democrats
were found to be 386, Republicans 183, Socialists
45, Independents 20, and Communists 10.

=|

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

By HAROLD SUGG

THE LITTLE WIT
THAT FOOLS HAVE

A rainy Saturday afternoon. A con-
tented murmur from the exhalations of
warmer spots on a cold campus: The
Student Store, Y. M. C. A., Fraternity
Housea. and Corner rooms, where the
gregarious meet and bull and speculate.
Vicarious entertainment rumbles from
Shearer with the antics of the Gridgraph,
Radios, ballyhoo. Army scores on Notre
Dame and the ponit fails. A student
bursts into the room annotncing 6-0
Duke first quarter. The Drugstore Win-
dow a gray, cold, wet block away dis-
plays Davidson 7, V. M. I. 0. Drab
barber shop palaver; dry goods store
quiet; a hopeful wet on the bumming
corner. Duke 25-0 verified. Somebody
shouts Rose Bowl! Davidson 14-6 V. M.
I. Notre Dame ties Army . . . Supper—
Post Mortems. :
PESTIFEROUS PERSONAGES

There are certain types of insidious
inimals, objectionable by degrees, that
may be found lurking between our Ar-
cadian walls. We enumerate a few for
the warning and implication thereof. No.
1 PP is the Bellowing-Pager: This rest-
less animal is continually searching for
someone. He sneaks up under your win-
dow and howls for the object of’ his
quest. If he calls one, he may be par-
doned; twice, excused; thrice, he does
not call but whinnies, and if he hollars
quatre he neither calls nor whinnies but
brays: revealing his nature by degrees.
Are you a Page-Bellower? Another PP
is the lurking Paper-Snatcher. This wily
dissembler prowls early in the morning,
mostly Sundays, and makes a sound like
the slish of a bedroom slipper. He steals
your morning paper and when you storm
up the hall and finally peek in his room
to find him comfortably enwrapped there-
with, he says “Have I your paper?”

Not least among this odorous species
is the Radio Blaster who is a cross be-
tween the owl and the ROTC Band in
that he hoots loudest at night and blares
out when the adjutant commands. “Pass
in Review!” We wouldn't object to the
Radio Blaster except that his program
choice is lousy. A peculiar bird (foul
fowl) is the Paper Blotchery This gaudy
bird smears his topee with .hair-grease
and then comes over to Georgia and im-
prints his dome mark on the wall paper;
and we Georgians shortly receive one
of those dictated letters that make us red.
We hope the Student Council, or “G”
Men as they are designated at P. C., can
extend their anti-nuisance campaign to
all these animals. Are you a PP?
CAMPUS PLUTOCRAT SIX

We interview this week Mokey Faison,
who says he is no Plutocrat but a good
Democrat. Mokey’s racket is framing.
“I frame everything,” says Mokey, “even
your best friend.” Since his advent: here,
he has framed over 400 pictures and
shingles, the largest an 18” by 16” crayon
drawing of a beautiful girl, the smallest
a forlorn boy’s invitation from his girl—
to her wedding! Pathos. For athletic
and fraternity pictures and shingles
Mokey gives A-1 service, even the hang-
ing. “And the best way to win your
girl,” advises he, “is to get her in a
good frame of mine.”

Incidentally, the calumnist finds a new
source of humor. From Mokey’s collec-
tion of ditties and limericks, we pick:
“There was a snake-charmer from Bom-
bay. I just love my adder, she'd say.
She had a position, with some statisti-
cian. Which Adder she mean’t I can't
say.” Faison’s newest work in embryo is
a Markham parody, entitled “The Man
With the Tray.” We wonder if it is
about that “Woodman, Woodman, Spare
that Tray?” Advice: Get that frame from
Mokey but have him recite a limerick
with each.

FLOTSAM

As spontaneous as the flare of a match
just being struck ... A freshman Guy
Fawkes complains that the upperclassmen
don't lead the way by attending Pep
Meetings. Inclined to agree . . ‘What a
good columnist would be a man who
could save his criticisms born of tur-
moil of a first year .. , Harpooner
Johnston (the Younger Yentz) goes a
Whalen .. . Carlisle Lewis; Agnes Por-
ter. And now a tennis maestro plays a

love game. Maybe a match... and PP's:
High Schoolish fire-cracking from the
peppery frosh . . . Soccer: Where even

the numbest skull is useful . .,. Nine sis-
ters in Charlotte; SPE snaking ground
. +. Paul Pittman, reported married by
a Durham paper, is called by the sup-
posed Mrs, to explain that it was a joke
... Cheering at V. M. I. with the fire
siren and Bud Okey’s siren—Catch? Way
Way .. . “Roof Garden” Windham . . .
Senior ROTCers trying hard to carry
sabres naturally .. . the impetuous Grimes

perceives. ..

AROUND WASHINGTON

By ARNOLD SERWER
(Associated Collegiate Press
Correspondent)

Washington, D. C.—Every time two
or more editors of college papers get to-
gether for a discussion, if the session lasts
long enough, one of them is bound to
bring up the name of Reed Harris.

“What,” one of them eventually asks,
“ever became of that fella Reed Harris,
who raised such a fuss when he edited
The Columbia Spectator?”

The answer is that he came to, Wash-
ington in due time and otday, after sev-
eral promotions, is Assistant Director of
Federal Writers’ Projects, under Direc-
tor Henry G. Alsberg. The Federal
Writers’ Projects is that part of the
works relief program designed to extend
aid to ex-newspapermen and writers on
relief by creating useful projects suitable
to their talents. At the present time Har-
ris is helping to get the largest writing
project, the American Guide, an improved
type of Baedeker for this country, under
way in all 48 states.

The versatile Mr. Harris is also serv-
ing in the capacity of Executive Editor
of a section of the WPA called Reports
and Bulletins. This section gathers in-
formation on the status of the program
by means of reports sent in from every
state. These reports, narrative more than
statistical in type, are a source of infor-
mation for both the administration and
the press.

The former editor of The Spectator
left Columbia College in 1932, it may be
recalled, as President of Phi Gamma
Delta and author of “King Football,”
and in the opinién of Pres, Nichdlas Mur-
ray Butler was Public Enemy Number
One to Ten Inclusive. Harris spent the
next two years at four different jobs, sort
of accumulating the first four cheques of
what may yet turn out to be an.interest-
ingly chequered career.

The first two jobs were on The New
York Times and The New York Journal.
Harris did general reporting and news
of the colleges ‘and universities. He was
one of a dozen men fired from The

Journal “at one fell “swoop, in one of
those mass firings that give life on a
Hearst sheet its piquancy. He is still
proud of the fact though that whereas
the others separated from The Journal
on this occasion were given only two
weeks’ salary as a paritng gift, he was
given three weeks’ salary. He doesn’t
know quite why this was done, but he
likes to think that it was some special
mark of distinction, not just an error on -
the part of the business office.

Next he worked as an editor for a
small publishing house in New York.
A fairly brief spell of that, and then he
became production manager of a fair
sized advertising agency. It was from this
job that Henry Alsberg rescued him, to
bring him to Washington as Assistant
editor of “The Project,” the now de-
funct publication of what was then the
Works Division of the FERA,

That was a year ago this’ month. In
the past year he has made considerable
progress, moving up three grades in gov-
ernment service. He is knee deep in
plans and details with his chief, for put-
ting 6,000 writers, cartographers, edi-
tors, and scientists of various kinds to
work on the American Guide, for getting
other projects outlined that will follow
the Guide, and is at the same time keep-
ing an eye on the reporting system of
the Reports and Bulletins section.

Harris often thinks back over the
events of his undergraduate days, when
he had one to a half dozen campus cam-
paigns going at once, was anathema to
the football team and its supporters, was
the favorite bogie man of the alumni, and
was the subject for a great deal of cu-
rious speculation among college editors.

One of his favorite off-hour interests
is still this business of undergraduate
journalism, He likes to hear about the
crusades of the college sheets from time
to time of disputes between editors and
outside busybodies. And of course, most
of all he likes to read from time to time
about what was once his own baby, The
Columbia Spectator, and about whatever

powers the “Spec” may happen to be
making unhappy at the moment.

“Compare The NEwWs”

From DAVIDSONIANS
e e e of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

The Wildcats conquer Tar Heels, 7-6,
in a thrilling battle. . . The Red and
Black _Masquers score a hit in the pro-
duction of “The Perfect Alibi” i
Vespers next Sunday will be conducted

by Union Theological Seminary stu-
dents... . Julian West, captain of the
Frosh team, is injured . . . Queens depu-

tation leads vesper service. .. Dr. S. C.
Lyon chosen president of the Quad-
ranglers club for the coming year .. .
Juniors hold the lead in class basketball
... Cats to go up against Wake Forest
Jinx on Thanksgiving.

TEN YEARS AGO

Tar Heels win state title by defeating
Wildcats. Davidson will close the
football season here Thanksgiving by
meeting Duke. . . Spanish Club initiates
eight. . . Special train takes students to
Chapel Hill for the game with Carolina

... Dr. T. W. Lingle to speak before
I, R. C. Friday night. . . Sophomores
win class basketball ... Three plays will
be presented by Dramatic club on
Thanksgiving .. . State Frosh down Kit-
tens.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
Davidson downs Carolina, 7-0 .

Special train takes students to game... .
C. K. Brown and J. H. McKeithen se-
lected¥fo meet Randolph-Macon in de-
bate. . . Juniors lead in class basketball
... Wildcats to play P, C. Saturday...
O, D. K. initiates six men... Dr. J. Cal-
vin Metcalf, professor of English at the
U. of Va. speaks at Davidson .. . Sigma
Upsilon entertains Dr. Metcalf. . . Gam-
ma Sigma Epsilon pledges three men. . .
Miller, Schenck, and Roberts address the
Volunteer Band. . . College students
celebrate Armistice Day with exercises
ind R. O, T. C. parade.

Reports Made To
Honorary Council

At a meeting of the Honorary Frater-
nity Council held Nov. 18, reports were
made by the various honorary suciety
representatives. These reports concerned
previous meetings of the respective
groups. i

At this meeting, it was decided that the
Council would not have a sponsor in the
annual,

Pres. Harlan called attention to the
fact that meetings of the different groups
would be held every other week, instead
of definitely the Ist and 3rd, or the 2nd
and 4th weeks of the month. At these
meetings, reports will be made as to the
activity of the various groups.

The members of. the Honorary Fra-
ternity Council, and the fraternities that

they represent are as follows: A. A.
Kuhn, Sigma Pi Sigma; W. B. Wart-
man, Gamma Sigma Epsilon; Carleton
Chapman, O. D. K.; J. N. Lee, Sigma
Delta Psi; James Salango, Ministerial
Band; T. E. Downie, I. R. C.; W. C.
Branton, Scabbard and Blade; Harvey
Glass, Le Cercle Francais; John Walker,
Eta Sigma Phi; Paul Harlan, the Eume-
nean Literary Society; George Hornbeck,
Philanthropic Literary Society; Gordon
Smith, Pi Delta Alpha; Wade Boggs.
Alpha Phi Epsilon; Hervey Ross, Delta
Phi Alpha; and Dave Herring, Red and
Black Masquers.

The human race has grown a full two
inches in average height during the last
century, Dr. Edith Boyd, University of
Minnesota, reported after extensive re-
search,

Commencement Invitations

Fraternity Publications

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

Lamont Brown

Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY
PRINTING CO.

e
Representatives

Visiting Cards

Personal and Fraternity Stationery

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

R. P. Morrow

