THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 20, 1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

Associated “Gollegiate Press
31934 Gollegiate Diorst 1935 <

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” ¢

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES ~
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

e s second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
cate North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,

ee my iettars to the Editor are welcome, but all communi¢a-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

Lamont Brown Editor-in-Chief.
R. P. Morrow, Jr. --.---------,-------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Jim Morton

HoweEtt OVERTON -.--------------------/ \ fanaging Editor
HAROLD. SUGO coccec ccc cncnicccnenncscce Managing Editor

Managing Editor
Managing Editor
-.-Sports Editor
Associate’ Editor
_-Associate Editor
.-Associate Editor
_-Associate Editor
--Associate Editor

DAYMOND TURNER -..-------------------
Joun WINN
Harry KuYKENDALL ---------------
Martin BARNETT
Harvey GLaAss
Paut HARLAN
Tom, MARCHANT
Joun WALKER ~..-------------

BUSINESS STAFF

GHARTES: MAUZE> 2 cousceesccesDses Circulation Manager
Hitt, SWOMk sciscsesncssscl sock sdwens Circulation Manager
BOs AVANGRiuamncneee Wenn nnnnnnn == Circulation Manager
Hoke Ropinson ~..----4..----------¢ Advertising Manager
Bitte Hilt) dmectctadecccccccansauscsut Collection Manager
31nL DEYERLE --.-------------dssistant Business Manager

Monday, May 20, 1935

HAIL AND

FAREWELL! A : Es
few more days of classes,

a brief period of examinations, and then the mem-

bers of the class of ’35 will step from the com-

mencement platform to return no more as student.

To say that they, will be missed is unnecessary at

this time, but we who are left may well pause for a
Seniors and the
For these men
brought us leadership in many lines of student en-
deavor—outstanding in athletics, scholarship, pub-
lications, social service, and a constructive program
of student government, the loss of such men cannot
be lightly turned aside.

But for them’ commencement, as the name signi-
The transition
is that from student to alumnus, once a Davidson
And though ‘he may
never come back to the familiar campus, each is
bound to‘his alma mater with enduring ties. May
their service to the college as alumni equal their

moments tribute to our departing
standards they have leit for us.

fies, should mean only a beginning.

man, always a Davidson man.

leadership as undergraduates !

Leaders, friends, and fellow classmates we salute
The warm friendships and close associations
that you have made possible will never be forgotten.
With every sincere wish for your ‘future success
and hapiness, we bid you “God-speed!” and send

you !

you On your way !

AN EXPLANATION

Due to a strike which occurred in the plant of
the Queen City Printing Company, publishers of
THe Davipsonian, it was impossible for them to
print the paper last week. Consequently, it was
printed by an inexperienced organization, which
made innumerable mistakes, many of them being
quite embarrasing to the staff of Tig DAvipsonian,

Therefore, the staff wishes to express its regrets
to anyone who might have been offended by what
went into that issue of the paper, and you may rest
assured that none of it was intentionally done.

This issue was handled by the proper company,
but since strike conditions still existed when the
paper was regularly due, it was impossible ‘to get
it out before today.

CAPTAIN NORTON GOODIER
PRITCHETT W, :
HEN headlines

of North Carolina newspapers carried an announce-
ment that Captain Pritchett had accepted the Athle-
tic Directorship of the University of Virginia the
sight of them shocked all Davidson to a feeling of
emptiness. It caused us to realize that soon a bright
and shining star that has graced Davidson’s crown
for seven Short years would ere long be casting its
rays elsewhere, finding its modest but ever glowing
way into the hearts of students and friends at Vir-
ginia as it did on our own campus.

In every part of Davidson life we see some help-
ful touch that has been made by Captain Pritchett.
He understands college students as few men do,
and so his advice and assistance have been rendered
in a rarely known fashion, and to fill the gap that
his departure will leave at Dayidson will be like
finding a Joshua to succeed a Moses.

Even though the remaining days of the actual

Managing iiditor

presence on the Davidson campus are few, his manly
character, modest conduct, and clean straight for-
ward living have been indelibly impressed upon the
hearts and minds of every Davidson man who knows
him and has learned to appreciate his pattern for
manliness.

As he leaves us we wish for him a happy and
successful sojourn in his new surroundings, and re-
mind him of an undying welcome that awaits him at
Davidson.

FOUR YEARS OF

WORK AND PROGRESS J... isu

to write a survey of a class without focusing undue
attention to those particular fields in which the class
has been prominent, and overlooking certain phases
of college life in which success has not been so
readily noticeable. In reviewing briefly the history
of the class of 1935, the writer will endeavor to dis-
cuss as wide a range of activities as possible in which
the members of the class have participated.

Let it be said by way of introduction that the
class of 1935 upon entering in September, 1931,
numbered over two hundred fifty, having the dis-
tinction of being the largest class to enter David-
son to that time. Since the initial registration, the
enrollment has decreased to one hundred twenty,
which shows an unusually good proportion of men
remaining in college for the entire four-year period

The class of 1935 claims no little distinction in
the field of scholarship. ‘The fact that fifty percent
of the class is represented on the Dean’s List serves
as an indication of the scholastic attainments of the
class at large. As to the records of individual men,
it will be remembered that sixteen men were hon-
ored by membership in Phi Beta Kappa, this num-
ber representing the full quota allowed by this socie-

ty. In the past it has been seldom that the quota
set up has been filled. ‘Two indivitluals in the

class deserve recognition for extraordinary scholas-
tic achievement, one having maintained.an average
for the three and one-half years completed of above
ninety-seven, and the other having a record of a
fraction above ninety-eight.

‘There are fields of activity in which achievement
often goes unnoticed and in which reward is not
sought through publicity. The Y. M. C. A. has
done notable work both on and off the campus,
much of which has passed unobserved by those not
directly in contact with the religious work. The
religious leaders of the Senior class deserve much
credit for their unselfish work in promoting the
religious life on the campus and in conducting religi-
ous services off the campus in the name of the
college. ‘Throughout the history of the class, a re-
newed interest in debating has resulted in the build-
ing up of an enviable reputation for Davidson in
the forensic field, a line of service in which there
is little reward,

The record of the class of 1935 in athletics will
not be discussed: at length. It is necessary only to
mention those who have made good in their athletic
endeavors; the many who have made varsity letters
regularly every season. ‘Their contribution to the
college is well-known. But there is a tendency to
overlook the men who have not made the teams,
the men who have been on the squad for four years,
making it possible for the teams to attain the levels
of success which have been theirs. The number of
varsity letters and service letters awarded prove
that the class of 1935 had a large representation in
both of the above groups.

Lest it appear that the writer attributes the rec-
ord of the class entirely to the merit of the individu-
al members of the class, let it be said that the class
has drawn heavily on two sources of inspiration. In
the first place, the men who were leaders when
the class of 1935 was in its most impressionable
stage, were admired and respected for their admir-
able record as a class. ‘The class of 1932 had a
profound influence on the then newly-formed class
of 1935. In the second place, the class is indebted
to the men in the class who have been eminent for
their ability in various departments: from the begin-
ning. ‘They, as leaders, have had a marked influence
on others whose development had been slower but
more complete because of the high ideals of the
leadership which they have respected.

On looking back over the past four years, a senior
naturally feels that his class has made a contribution
to the institution, But overshadowing this idea is
the feeling that every man has received during his
college course certain benefits which are incapable
of being repaid. Certain associations, principles,
ideals, and the intangible spirit which is so much
more pronounced as the end of the college course
approaches, have had their indelible effect on the life
of every Davidson man.

Also accompanying the feeling of having made
some contribution to Davidson is the feeling of hav-
ing lost many opportunities and of having failed to
attain certain goals and standards. It is of course
true that as a class and as individuals we have made
mistakes and have failed in certain undertakings,
but these failures cari be turned into stepping stones
to future success. If the members of the Senior
Class can continue in the large measure of fortune
and success which they have enjoyed at Davidson,
the future can hold for them nothing but the
brightest of prospects. E. F. M.

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

By Haron Succ
RECOLLECTIONS FROM
ANTIQUITY

Tue Davinsonian. As this column
appears a week after being written, due
to the printers’ strike, there will be
nothing new under The DavinsoniAn,
Last week's perpetration was hand set
and was so funny that the efforts of
this column were outclassed by the paper
itself. It was not due, as unfortunately
prophesied, to Agnes Scott May Day.

SNAKES AS NUMEROUS AS
HILL-BILLY PROGRAMS

Snakes? If Saint Patrick were to
walk through this campus a new Stu-
dent Body would have to be shipped in.
Bill Deyerle gets up at 4:30 in the morn-
ing to late-date a Phi Delta gal and was
Bobby Peters powerless? Deyerle says
he number 9 now instead on 10. Bon-
durante also reports the snaking busi-
ness as doing fine. Gus Maynard meets
his feminine friend in the early hours
and later in the day Don Bailey and
Copperhead DuBose take the young
friend away. And was Gus Aggie-vated?
Tom Downie wotild walk a mile for a
camel,

BUTTON, BUTTON, WHO’S ~*
GOT A NICKEL?

What Davidson doesn’t need is a good
nickel telephone. The system now is
illegal because it is a slot machine on the
gambling plan. If she’s in you win and
if she’s out you have to find another
nickel. Seriously, why not install regu-
lar telephones at the Student Store,
Tut DaAvipsontan Office, and in one or
two of the dormitories? Tor long dis-
tance calls, pay telephones would still
be used. How about it?

LOCAL MOHAMMEDANS
MAKE PILGRIMAGES

Salisbury increasingly becomes the
mecca of local socialites, Gordon Smith
generally heads the trek and is often
followed by Walt Dickson and ‘Teal
Rogers. Buddy Robinson, Bill Harris,
Bill Young and Jack Somerville were
also hunting. There’s gold in them Rock

Hill every day in the week. > Pros-
pectors Henry Eve, Mitchell and
Booby Arrowsmith traveled over for

some reason or other on Wednesday. Bill
Atwater is reported to be running for
Mayor of Fort Mills, political speaker
that he is. Sunday saw, among others,
Matt and Joe Alderman, John Partridge,
Herb Doctor Willis and Bill Stuckey.
Joe Hunter did not go to Rock Hill Sun-
day.

We suspect that several of ‘the fra-
ternities had house parties (The Greeks
have a name for them) over the past
weekend. Only the Phi Déltas will ad-
mit it. At the power lake near States-
ville about 60 brothers and sisters re-
port a great time. “Tarazan” Jim Mor-
rison supplied the entertainment. The
Kappa Sigma, Kappa Alpha and Phi
Gam _ lodges—so we would have heard—
entertained the girls this weekend.

THE FRIENDLY COw,
ALL RED AND WHITE

A most innocent looking bovine caused
a lot of amusement Saturday week.
Wandering behind the dormitories poor
Bossy was captured and attempt was
made to coax her into “Weeny’ Mat-
thews and Lamont Brown's ‘room. Boosy

refused. Perhaps after hearing Lamont
shoot the Bull she feared to venture
therein. The Y. M. A. A. radio made

a regretful departure last week. Too

much hot music being played at the “Y.”
'

SAFELY THRU ANOTHER

YEAR -

After the “house parties, a period of
water fights, campus decorating and
window busting, examinations and grad-
uation, then we end the grind. No more
‘bull sessions, horseshoe contests, or re-
views. Also no more columns. As Eu-
clid Fant says: “Its an ill wind—.”
Somebody said this» thing ought to be
called” “Dictated But Not Read” and
somebody else said it ought not to be
Off the Record but Off the Paper. Oh,
well.

. C. MAY DAY: Reg Harris, John
Anderson, Gordon Smith, Don Stewart,
Bobby Burns, Rig Dees and Ed Holt
went to see the May Pole festivities in
Greensboro. Accomodating Gus never
misses a one. SAYS Heman: Alls
Wells on the Fayetteville front. CARO-
LINA: Skinny Stevens, Pete McKnight
and Charley Thompson were among
those at the Junior Speaking exercises.
COTTON BALL: saw Paul Pittman
escorting and Baxter Yarborough, Bob
Orr and Cokey Branton looking on. DO
YOU: want to get up in time for classes?
See Blue Boy. DO YOU: wanteto be-
come as strong as Charles Atlas? See
Doctor Kornegay and P.M. CHAR-
LOTTE: was the scene of a very de-
lightful dance given by Bobby and Jack
Lafferty and their PIKA _ brothers.

\

OUR
ontemporartes

POLITICS...

Only scattered opposition is antici-
pated by the two major political parties
at W. and L, in the immient class elec-
tions. Law school balloting is the only
voting not affected by party line-ups .. .
While The Technique is all set up about
“more dirty pool” in their recent student
council elections. Apparently the Geor-
gia engineers take their crooked politics
seriously !

PETS . #%.

Fifi, “the white cat that persists in
jumping on the tables of tenement 17”
at the U. of S. C., consumed three
drinks of South Carolina corn and then
At last report, Fifi was suffering
a hangover . . . And at Gettys-
burg, members. of Kappa Delta Rho
sadly interred Ripper, the canine who
had gained fame by his frequent appear-
ances in the college chapel. ‘The house
flag was flown at half-mast, and mili
tary ceremonies were used.

AND THE DANCE...

Kay Kyser will return to play for an-
nual Commencement Dances at the Uni-
versity of the South. ... The Clemson
Tiger announces that Ozzie Nelson has
been signed for finals. . . . Incidentally,
Sewanee students will have no spring
holidays next year. It is hoped this
move will insure greater support for the
German Club's Easter dances.
“SOMETHING ABOUT A SOLDIER”

V. M. I. cadets took part in a reenact-
ment of the battle of Chancellorsville
recently, The cadets represented the
Confederate troops, and six hundred
U. S. Marines took the part of the Union
forces. The Southerners practiced the
“rebel yell’ assiduously, so their bar-
racks may sound like Davidson during
a concert by our local hog-callers .. .
Freshmen at P. C. will drill themselves
their last week. “Every man his own
general,” blurbs the Bluestocking.
HONOR SYSTEM .. .

The hopor system lives at Washing-
ton and Lee, according to another in-
formant. An alumnus of ten years
standing returned for a visit recently and
claims that a cigar butt he had thrown
underhis..bed..was . still there.

With a visit to Winthrop, a Clemson
columnist-completes his inspection tour
of neighboring women’s. colleges and
lists his findings for the benefit of his
readérs. Winthrop is the strictest, G.
W. C. the most liberal of these institu-
tions he infers . . . During the month
of May, 1934, there were 1,088 guests
served in the Randolph-Macon dining
room. . . . Winthrop, too, has its gum
Some industrious prankster
put chewing gum in all the keyholes of
North. . . . Says the Erskine Mirror:
Some college boys like ties with dots in
‘em, suits with stripes in ’em, and letters
with checks in ’em. ... A large number
of Georgia students earned the name of
‘sucker” when they fell’for a glib-ton-
gued salesman with many promises and
a seven dollars and a half suit. Ap-

from

chewers.

FEDERAL RESERVE DANCE:
Bankers Batte, Sours, Verble, Mann and
still Moore were there. CONCORD:
Max Gregg and the minute men, VAU-
DEVILE: was enjoyed by George Nor-
fleet, Bob Lindsay et al on the Winston
Bus Sunday.

FRESH NETMEN
FINIOH ok AGON

Win Four Matches, Lose One To
Make Enviable Record

‘The Davidson freshman tennis team of
1935 has completed “successful” season
with four wins and one loss.

‘The first match was played with Char-
lotte High School, which the freshmen
won 7-2; the second, with N. C. State
freshmen, which the State freshmen won
4-3; the third match was with Winston-
Salem, the Davidson team won this one
7-2; the fourth match was with the
Charlotte High School again, the David-
son freshmen won 6-3; the fifth and
final match was with the Wingate Jun-
ior College, theshmen won 9-0,

The team is composed of 1 Bronston
Kenny, 2 Harry Frampton, 3 Owen
Cooke, 4 Rhienhardt, 5 Hartzog and 6
Charlie Moore. The first two men, Ken-
ny and Frampton, have not lost a match
this year, either in the singles or the
doubles. In the meet with Winston
High, Kenny defeated the runner-up of
the state high school championship and
paired with Frampton to defeat the state
high school doubles champions. Kenny
also truimphed in both the fall and
spring freshmen tennis tournaments
that were held this year.

There is a possibility of the freshmen
having another meet with Winston High.
A return match was scheduled with them
but was unable to be played because of
wet courts. However, it may be played
some time this week. All of the matches
this year have been played on the local
courts except the first match with the
Charlotte High School.

©.

parently the boys are dissatisfied with
their purchases . . . Wake Forest Col-
lege is completing a “Know Everybody
Drive”... A non-fraternity party has
been organized for the student body
elections at Roanoke. Its campaign was
successful . . . Tulane sapient suggests
that various classes hire stenographers
to take notes for them, thus relieving
them of the responsibility of attendance
on lectures.

Military Department _
Busy Selecting Staff

The R.O.T.C. department of Davidson
College is nearing the completion of its
selections for next year’s staff. It is
reported that Major Rhett, Captain Coch-
ran, Captain Seifert, and Sergeant Bur-
ton will be back next year as instructors

and that Junior student officers have
been selected.
Forty-four men and six alternates

have been selected from the rising Jun-
ior class for officers next year. The
chosen men are the following: Ander-
son, Andrews, Barnes, Bigham, Boggs,
Branch, Branton, Breeden, I, A. Cathey,
Covington, Cox, Edwards, Feuchtenber-
ger, Irieze, Iryfogle, Gladden, Howell,
Hunter, Johnson, Johnston, McClelland,
Mcl.can, McLendon, Mack, A. S$. Mof-
fett, Morton, Overton, Patterson, Pea-
body, Poe, Port, Quick Ritchie Robinson,
Sanford, Scott, Sellers, Somerville,
Thompson, Turner, Fogler, Winn, and
Woodward. The following six men are
alternates in order; Kuykdendall, Finley
‘Templeton, Crowell, Squires, McAfee.

‘rr was NEWS...

99 From DAVIDSONIANS
of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO
Quips and Cranks of 1930 appears
on the campus today. . . . Dedication
of Chambers building to be the feature
of the Commencement exercises.
Fourteen members initiated into the IRC
. The Student Council elects New

Court of Control... . Members of Year |

Book chosen,
TEN YEARS AGO

Newly elected Student Officers take
oath of office Friday . . . Davidsonian
ends two years of service. ... Frosh to
perform in annual “day of fun” before
the sophomores. . . . Davidson bows to
Duke after thrilling rally in the seventh
inning . . . Dramtic Club to promote
student interest in amateur plays... .
Wildkitten nine drops final game to the
Baptists. . . . Sophs hold banquet Tues-

day night. .

. Greensboro

. . Davidson will send rep-
resentatives to Blue Ridge conclave. .. .
Seniors are interested in graduation
schedule. . . . Currie wins praise at big
meet. State Tennis
doubles Championship goes to Wildcat
| netmen,
FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Carolina comes first in state track
meet—Wildcats lose three and win one
in baseball. .. . Class of 1915 to hold
first reunion, . . . Dr. Richards decides
to remain at Davidson. . . . Student Body

Officers are installed. Excellent
speakers are secured for commence-
ment exercises... . Last game of
season goes to Furman . . . Davidson

honored by visit of the General Assem-
bly... . . Track team culminates season
with three impressive wins.

Cemmencement Invitations

Fraternity Publications

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

K. D.. WEEKS

Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY
PRINTING CO.

e eels
Representatives 5

Visiting Cards

Personal and Fraternity Stationery

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

1OE WADSWORTH

