JUNIOR SPEAKING
DANCES ANNOUNCED
FOR MARCH 15-16

Che Mabidsontan

ALENDA

LUX U

ORTA

LIBERTA'’S

AWARDS GIVEN TO
STUDENT WINNERS
OF PHOTO CONTEST

Vol. XXII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 27, 1935

No. 18

NATHAN SPEECH
IS FEATURE OF
,A.6, CONGLAVE

Three Day Southeastern Students’
Conference Culminates In
Election
CHARLES LUCAS PRESIDES

Site For-Next Year’s Conference
Not Yet Chosen

The three-day Southeastern Students
Conference of International Relations
Clubs came to a close here at noon Sat-
urday.

This was the largest of the twelve an-
nual conferences that have been held in
the South and was attended by 175 dele-
gates representing 65 schools and col-
leges.

The meeting opened Thursday after-
noon with informal reception and regis-
tration of delegates in the banquet hall
of Chambers Building. At the meeting
held that night, Dr. J. M. McConnell,
dean of the faculty at Davidson, ex-
tended a welcome to the conference, and
Charles Lucas, president of the confer-
ence, presided. Miss Zuline Morris,
Brenau College, and Miss Ursula Hub-
bard, representative of the Carnegie
Foundation, responded to the addresses
of welcome. Following this meeting,
guests were entertained by the social
fraternities who held open house.
©The convention officially opened Fri-
day morning with a discussion of the
economic and political situation in the
Far East which was led by Alan Jen-
kins, professor of the Asheville School,
who has traveled extensively in the East.
The discussion centered around the Jap-
anese-Manchurian situation with Mr.
Jenkins furnishing the -discussion back;
ground.

At 11 o'clock the group considered the
situation in Central Europe. ‘This topic
was introduced by Dr. T. W. Lingle of
Davidson and Dr. Otto Nathan contrib-
uted to the discussion. Questions were
asked by the delegates concerning the
German-Austrian situation and the pos-
sibilities of a German-Italian alliance.

Following the luncheon, Dr. Keener C.
Frazer, professor at the University of
North Carolina, delivered an address on
“The Work of the League of Nations
in Disarmament and American Policy.”
Reports from the 65 international rela-
tions clubs represented were received by
Miss Hubbard that afternoon.

The annual banquet of the club was
held in the banquet hall Friday night,
with Charles Lucas, president of the
group, as toastmaster.

Dr. Otto Nathan, noted German polit-
ical adviser and economist, now a pro-
fessor at Princeton University, gave the
principal address of the conference that
evening, speaking on the “Problems of
World Recovery.” In his lecture Dr.
Nathan stressed the lessons to be gained
from the recent world-wide economic
crises and also emphasized the part played
by wars in disrupting economic secur-
ity.

The first listed three of’ the major
teachings which may be drawn from this

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 5)

WINNERS OF STATE WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP

Courtesy of Charlotte News.

Above is pictured the Davidson wrestling team which defeated the N. C. State team last Friday night by a
score of fifteen and one-half to ten and one-half to win the state championship.
left to right, are: front row, Shirey, Owen, Moffett, Thompson, and Taylor; rear row, Manager Porter, Hod-
gin, Captain Fort, Quarterman, Blackwelder, and Coach Unger.

he men, reading from

COLLEGE BAND
TO TOUR TATE

Concert Band Itinerary Includes
Cities In North Carolina
And Virginia

The Davidson College Concert. Band
will leave for an extensive concert tour
of the state on Tuesday afternoon, Feb-
ruary 5. Forty-five members of the band
will make the trip, which will last four
days in all.

The first concert of the series will
be given at Lenoir on Tuesday night,
February 5. On Wednesday the band
will travel over to Lexington, where
they will play in the afternoon. Wednes-
day night they are scheduled to appear
in Salisbury.

On Thursday morning the band will
present their concert in the town of
Clemons. On Thursday evening they
will play in Winston-Salem, the largest
city on the route, Friday afternoon and
night the band will make its appearance
on the stage of the Paramount Theatre
in Hickory.

The program for these concerts will
be the same as the one which will be
presented in the Chambers Auditorium
next Friday night. The entire trip will
be made in one circuit. The members
of the band will travel in a Queen City
bus, and their instruments will be car-
ried in a truck which will be furnished
through the kindness of -Mr. J. C. Harp-
er, director of the famous Lenoir High

School Band.

Wood Announced As Winner
Of College Picture Contest

Squires Wins Second Prize And
Abernathy Takes Third Prize
In Contest

In the photographic contest conducted
recently by the Davidsonian in connec-
tion with Mr. I. W. Van Ness, Gordon
Wood won the first prize of five dollars’
worth of photographic stock, Graham
Squires won second prize of $2.50, and
John Abernathy won the third prize of
$1.50.

Wood's entry was a photograph of
Gus Maynard and his dog Kayo, taken
on the golf course. Squires’ entry was
a picture of Geddie Monroe, cheerleader
in the annual Georgia-Watts football
game. These two pictures can be seen
on page 5. %

This contest was limited to Davidson
students, and the pictures were to por-
tray some phase of life at Davidson.
They could also portray campus scenes,
personalities of the college, college
buildings, or anything else that would
preserve the history of the college.

The photographs were judged on their
originality, value in preserving the his-
tory of the college, and general work-
manship.

Students Of Chemistry
Visit Charlotte Plants

The Chemistry 6 class in Industrial
Chemistry which is taught by Professor
Clifford made a trip to Charlotte last
Wednesday afternoon and inspected the
lard plant of the Swift Refining Com-
pany and the sulphuric acid plant of
the Merchants Fertilizer Company.

At Swift's plant, the class saw how
lards and other solid oils were made
from the hydrogenated cotton seed oil
which is shipped to the plant from At-
lanta.

Later in the afternoon the class went
to the lead chamber sulphuric acid
plant of the Merchants Fertilizer com-
pany where they saw sulphuric acid
being made. The class was very
fortunate in this visit, because just be-
fore their visit, the acid in one of the
lead chambers of the plant had become
too strong and. had eaten a hole
through the lead. So when the class
visited the plant, they were able to

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

Trustees Receive
Students’ | Petition

Trustees Hold Meeting Last Wed-
nesday To Transact Rou-
tine Business

Trustees of Davidson College were in
session at Davidson last Wednesday, at
which time a petition requesting a new
social center and the privilege of cam-
pus dances was presented to the group
by several student organizations.

The Student Policies Union, compris-
ing eighty per cent of the upperclass-
men, presented their petition orally
through a committee composed of R. T.
Coit, G. H. Brown, K. D. Weeks, and
Carl Carlson. Brown acted as _ spokes-
man for the group. Other petitions were
submitted by Omicron Delta Kappa
through *Bob Smith, the Pan-Hellenic
Council through Mims Rogers, and the
Honorary Fraternity Council by Hugh
Yelverton.

The Board of Trustees referred the
question to a committee which is to re-
port with recommendations at the June
meeting of the trustees. Dr. R. A. Dunn,
president of the board, appointed the
committee which is headed by Dr. C. R.
Nisbet of Charlotte.

In addition tothe petitions submitted,
the trustees transacted routine business
and heard reports from Dr. W. L. Lingle,
president of the college, and F*. I. Jack-
son, treasurer. Four new members of
the board were present at this meeting.
They were Dr. A. S. Johnson, Dr. P.
D. Miller, Rev. C. S. Rowan, and Dr.
J. M. Richards,

Gordon Brown Sponlts
Before Engineers Club

Gordon H. Brown, president of the

Davidson student body, addressed the
fifty members of the Engineers Club
gathered for luncheon at Efird’s in

Charlotte at one o'clock Monday. The
subject of his speech was “The Young
Man in a Dissolving World.” A sum-
mary of the address follows:

“This~is a discussion of the young
man’s dilemma in a world of revolution
where old standards of value are being
thrown into discard.

“Political, economic, ethical, and re-
ligious provinces of thought of the old
order are in so great a state of fluctua-
tion that youth finds it increasingly diffi-
cult to create a design for living. The
old doctrine individualism we have been
taught to believe was peculiarly Ameri-
can is being, in these strenuous times,
attacked to the point where it no longer
is a part of legitimate social policy. What
we formerly believed to be the typical
American maxim, of industry, frugality,
and individual independence are no long-
er the criteria they once were in the light
of a growing conception of government
as the great provider.”

“Skip” has spoken in Charlotte a num-
ber of times before this, though this is
the first time he has addressed this organ-
ization of engineers and technicians.

WILSON SPEAKS
TO VOLUNTEERS

John McMullen Elected President
Of Volunteer Union For
Next Year

The State Student Volunteer Union
held its annual conference on the week-
end of February 15-17. The conference
this year, held at the Trinity Avenue
Presbyterian Church just off the campus
of Duke University in Durham, enter-
tained representatives from practically
all the colleges in North Carolina.

“The Christian Student’s Response to
a Confused World” the general
theme of the state meeting, and all the
talks, lectures and Christian messages
delivered to the representatives bore di-
rectly upon this theme. Mr. Jess Wil-
son, general secretary of the Student
Volunteer Movement, was the principal
speaker at the conference: Mr. Wilson
visited the Davidson campus after the
conference and spoke at the chapel ex-
ercises on Wednesday, February 14.

was

Of more personal interest to the stu-
dent body was the election of John Me-
Mullen, of the class of 1935, to the presi-
dency of the State Student Volunteer
Union for next year. This office was held
last year by Pons Scott, of the class of
1934. Frank Brown, a member of the
Sophomore class, was honored with the
office of state deputation secretary for
next year.

Not only was Davidson honored by
the election of these two men to high
offices in the Union, but also the local
group took first place in the number of
deputations for the past year.

“The conference,” as reported by the
members of the Union here who attended
the conferenc, “was indeed inspiring. All
those who were present left with an im-
pelling desire to respond in a positive
way to the confusion of the world.”

Debators Depart Soon
On Trip Through South

The varsity debating team which will
make the Southern tour, composed of
Albert Stutts, from Eagle Springs, N. C.,
and Harold Sugg, from Greenville, N. C.,
will leave Davidson on Wednesday morn-
ing for Charleston, S. C., where they
will engage in debate with the College
of Charleston on February 28. From
there they will journey into Florida to
meet the University of Miami on March
5. On the return trip the debaters will
stop in Atlanta and oppose, Emory Uni-
versity on March 7, and either the Uni-
versity of Georgia or Georgia Tech on
March 9. P

The question for debate is, Resolved:
That the nations shall agree to prevent
the international shipment of arms and
munitions. The Southern team will up-
hold the affirmative side of the question.

Warner DuBose will accompany the
debaters as an alternate. Mr. DuBose
is manager of the varsity debating team.

WILDCAT GRAPPLERS
WIN BIG FIVE TITLE
BY DOWNING STATE

Dn. ALE. RUARK
TO oPEAK HERE

University Physics Professor To
Speak On “Building Stones
Of Matter’’

Dr Arthur EK. Ruark, of the Univer-

sity of North Carolina, will speak here
on the evening of Tuesday, March 5, at
7:30 o'clock. He comes to Davidson un
der the auspices of the Faculty Commit-
tee on Public Lectures and is very high-
ly recommended.
Dr.. Ruark will take as his subject,
Building. Stones of Matter,” dealing
principally with the nuclear side of mat-
ter;
deutrons, and neutrons, “and other sub-
jects dealing with the disintegration of
miitter.

as—protons, electrons, positrons,

While of especial interest to students
of chemistry and physics, this lecture
will also contain much of value for the
general public; it will offer
understanding of the principles underly

a clearer
ing the cosmic ray which has recently
attracted so much popular notice. Every-
one is cordially invited to attend, and
there will be no admission charge.

Although this is Dr. Ruark’s first year
at the university, he is the head of the
Phygjces Department there and has long
been prominent in scientific fields, being
in great demand as a lecturer on scientific
subjects.

Before his connection with the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, he was a research
worker in the Mellon Institute of Indus-
trial Research and lecturer on physics at
the University of Pittsburg.

~ He collaborated with Dr. H. C. Urey,
Nobel prize winner and professor at Co-
lumbia University, in the compilation of
“Atoms, Molecules, and Quanta,” a book
which records every important contribu-
tion to the fields of physics and chem-
istry made within the last ten years.

This book is a standard text, used in
almost every institution of higher learn-
ing within the land and has become the
sine qua non for candidates for an ad-
vanced degree in either of: these sub-
jects.

A comparatively young man, in the
middle forties, Dr. Ruark has for a dec-
ade been affiliated with the leading sci-
entific organizations of the country. At
present he is engaged in forming, south-
ern branches of the Physical Society of
America. ‘

Last week he spoke before the Sigma

Quarterman’s Fall Over Captain
Bernhardt Gives Victory To
’Cat Matmen

FORT AND CROOM DRAW

Three Overtime Draws Are ‘High-
NM light Of Match

North Carolina State’s mighty grap-
plers met their waterloo Friday and
were defeated 15%-10% in the finals for
the state championship by a formidable
and scrappy team of Davidson Wildcats
under Coach “Doc” Unger.

The victory gives Davidson her first
state championship of the year, and the
first held by Wildcat wrestlers in many
seasons.

The match, which was packed with
thrills, featured three extra period draw
battles, giving each team one and a half
points for each’ contest.. Davidson de-
cisively captured two time advantages
and a fall, while State accounted for
two time decisions.

The Wolfpack wrestlers, coached by
a senior at State, David Morrow, had
an unusually wiry—and aggressive. team,
and at onetime were six points in the
lead. However, Lawrence Quarterman,
of Davidson, started a rally that gave
Davidson the championship.

Quarterman won by a fall over the
previously undefeated Captain Bernhardt
of State in eight minutes. Frank Owens
defeated Hall of State, while Leroy
Blackwelder added to his unblemished
record by winning over ‘Troxler to ac-
count for Davidson's other two victories.

For State, Bill Bell defeated Polk
Moffatt and Colin Kerr won over Knox
Thompson. Both were time advantages.

Summary :

118—Moffatt, handicapped by a
wrenched back, entered the fray against
Bell of, State. Bell, a former Greens-
boro High School star, won compara-
tively easily a time decision of 9 minutes
and 63 seconds. Score: State 3, David-
son 0.

126—Thompson, with unusual aggres-
siveness, started the fireworks and at first
appeared to have the advantage
Kerr df State, but the latter rallied to
gain a time decision of 1 minute and 51
Score: State 6, Davidson 0.

over

seconds,

135—Frank Parker, entering against
the stockily-built Krach of State, put up
a fine exhibition. but the latter matched
this with his wiryness and the contest
ended in a draw after two rest periods
had utilized. Score: State 7%,
Davidson 1%.

145—Owen, facing Hall of State, eas-
ily proved himself superior in wrestling
Ability to the latter, and only by Hall's
Owen was

been

quickness was a fall averted.
awarded the dtcision in 2 minutes and

Xi organization at Duke University.

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

Davidson Alumnus Discusses

_ Progress Of M

Two Fraternities Held
Initiations Last Week

Two social fraternities, Kappa Alpha
and Phi Gamma Delta, held formal
initiation ceremonies for their pledges
during the past week.

Kappa Alpha began its_initiation last
night and will complete it fonight. To-
morrow night a model initiation will
be held to which faculty and alumni
members are invited. A social affair
will be held afterwards.

G. W. Palmer of Memphis, Tenn.,
president of the K. A. pledge group
will be initiated in the model ceremony.
Other initiates are: J. P. Bailey, Rock
Hill, S. C.; J. F. Bland; F. W. Dennis,
Concord; J. B. Graham, Burlington; W.
H. Harris, Roxboro; and B. S. Kenney,
Frankfort, Ky.

Phi G Delta _initi ten
pledges last Saturday afternoon with a
formal initiation in the Dome Room of
Chambers.

After the initiation the Fijis journey-
ed to Charlotte where they attended
their annual Norris Pig Dinner at the
S. & W. Andy Bird, ’32, acted as
toastmaster; and Pete Dunsford, honor
guest, introduced the pig.

The following pledges were initiated:
1. S. Bull, Winston-Salem; W. O. Cooke,
Greensboro; J. L. Dooley, Knoxville,

ted

usic Department

Captain Harper, Director Of Le-
noir Band, Compliments
Music Department

INTERVIEWED BY RicHArp VOWLES

Immediately after the concert which
the. Lenoir High Band presented here
recently, this interviewer made his way
toward the stage to speak to the direc-
tor, Capt. James C. Harper. Knowing
Captain Harper to be alumnus of
Davidson, I questioned him on the mu-
sic department in his day. »

“The music department, when-I-was
here, was made up of the glee club and
the salon orchestra. There was, strange
to say, no band when I came, but one
was organized before I left.”

“What do you think of the music de-
partment now?”

“I think Davidson College has a fine
music department. The band, in my opin-
ion, is the best in the state. The other
two organizations, naturally, have not
progressed as far, but probably will.”

“What do you think of music in the
public schools?”

“Music has definitely been established
as an essential part of education. It gives
an outlet for leisure time, thus providing
a double asset.”

“Do you think the average, man should
have any musical knowledge?”

“Yes, Ivdo. Music is always about
one, by the radio especially. Anything
so universal should have some place in
the knowledge of every man.”

an

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 4)
