THE DAVIDSON

IAN, MAY 10, 1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1916

Associated Golleginte Press

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are but all
tions intended for publication must be signed.

Editor
Business Manager

Lamont Brown
R. P. Morrow

EDITORIAL STAFF 3

eoegee Managing Editor
Howett OVERTON Managing Editor
Haroip Succ .- web Managing Editor
IDAYMONDULURNER ssLaccacccceacaccccuse Managing Editor
OHNE WINN Seecccccluacucacscuscuuuuse Managing Editor
Harry KuyKENDALL ~-----.---------------- Sports Editor
Martin BARNETT Associate Editor
Harvey GLAss
PAUDRELARUAN? ucesuucdcubeseceuLeuunuae
TOM MARCHANT cncnccoccnccésaledusaus: Associate Editor
JOHN: -WAUKER ccsscstatensscaccsceseess Associate Editor

Jim Morton --.-

BUSINESS STAFF

GHAREES | MAUZE {-ccccecccuoescess Circulation Manager
Brti SWOPE succcccceccccuesatouseass Circulation Manager
BOB “VANCE coccccstccudussbassoucau Circulation Manager

IOKEGROBINSON) sccccscusencocscecce Advertising Manager
Binge bing: aees ---Collection Manager
BItUPDOYERLE coccaceauscessee Assistant Business Manager

Friday May 10, 1935

All other knowledge is hurtful to him who has
not honesty and good nature—Montaigne

Deepest sympathny is extended to Mr.
M. W. McGill in this time of bereavement.

L)

DAVIDSON HONOR a hk
WILL BE UPHELD HREE weeks

approximately remain in the present school year.

hree weeks only separate some of us from that
coveted diploma, and others of us from another
year’s credit toward said diploma. From past
observation we cannot help but note that these
last few weeks seem to constitute a danger point
for some few members of the student body.
Possibly this is due to the excitement of closing
another year’s work, possibly to the seeming let-
up in vigilance on the part of those to whom the
maintainance of what we are accustomed to eall
Davidson Honor is entrusted. Every year, some
few make the mistake of trusting that there act-
ually is a let-up in vigilance, with the usual dire
consequences and unpleasantness with regard to
every person concerned,

First, may we assure you that there is never
such a let-up. Those in offices are usually types
which never allow their senses of right and wrong
to become lax or warped. It would be much less
worrisom to these men if they could allow their
consciences to weaken at such times, but the oath
of office is binding, and one which is not forgotten
with ease. *The new student council is mindful
of its function as guardian of the before mentioned
Davidson Honor, by its enforcement of theDavid-
son Honor System as stated in the constitution,
and it intends to see justice done in every case
before it. It is the earnest hope of the new coun-
cil, however, that this year may be completed
without any such case coming before it. What
a splendid precedent that would be.

The past administration reiterated time and
time again, its pleas for students to make use of
the excellent locks now provided each room.
These pleas were rewarded to some extent, since
a far greater number of men now keep their doors
locked than formerly, thus removing from weaker
men, a terrible temptation. The new adminis-
tration cannot stress this plea enough. If every
man will consider the infinite amount of distress
and worry avoided by this removal of temptation,

we have no doubt that no one of our number will

continue leaving his room open to the pleasure
of anyone who desires to enter. It is indeed un-
fortunate that we must consider so seriously
that fact that there are amoung us, weak men, but
the matter is so generally recognized as true, in
the light of a few unforunate occurrances in the
past, that we need not debate it further.

Now, to more pleasant matters. Suggestions
are occasionally being tended to members of the
hew administration as to innovations, improve-
ments, etc., which may be desirable. Any man
having such a suggestion in mind will confer a
favor on members of the new administration, if
he will communicate it, and he may rest assured
that if such plans or ideas are deemed practical,
they will be immediately put into effect. One
such suggestion involyes substituting once or
twice each week, one of the vice-presidents of the
student body for the president in our daily chapel
exercises, The arguments for the suggestion are
that vice-presidents will thus gain valuable ex-
perience in appearing before the student body,
and the students themselves will welcome a
charge from the regular routine. Certainly the

idea is well worth considering. What do you

_ think?

PAN HELLENICS I

TENDER REBUTLE feel it my bound

duty to write this in reply to an editorial which

appeared in the May Ist issue of the Davidsonian.
he title of the editorial was “A Suggestion to

the Pen-Hellenic Council.”

I write with the feeling that the author’s sen-
timents are not shared by the student body at
large. The purpose of this reply is directed to-
ward the dissolution of any false beliefs that may
have accumulated as a result of the writer’s jour-
nalistic effort.

Criticism when well directed, well thought out
and of substance is a valuable thing. It serves to
improve and promote. But hasty criticism and
especially false criticism is of no value and serves
to embitten and put to unjust scorn the objects
of the criticism.

My purpose as stated above is to clear the Pan-
Hellenic Council of the stigma of student body
reproach and I shall proceed along rambling
lines.

First of all let me insist that the matter of pro-
moting a set of dances is a business proposition.
The process entails considerable expense which
eventually must be met. The only means of
meeting these expenses is by the levy of an ad-
mission charge. The author’s plan calls for no
excess of intake over expenses. Yet he fails to
realize that certain uncertain elements enter into
the proposition and may serve to either make or
break it. Bad weather, student body disinterest,
campus activities, etc., all serve to make the pro-
motion of Davidson College dances a hazardous
undertaking. It is true that money is lost with
as much frequency as i#?is made. ‘There is no
means known to the writer by which expenses can
be guaranteed except by the fraternities and it
seems improbable, certainly illogical, that the fra-
ternities would be willing to go into business.
Yet the author insists that the Greek Societies
sponsor take responsibility for Davidson dances.

I will dismiss the author’s declaration that Pan-
Hellenic Councilmen’ are actuated only by the
desire for money and that they are devoid of all
and any forms of school spirit. I know from con¢
tact with the gentlemen on the Council that this
is untrue. A study of the Councilmen themselves
will prove the utter fallaciousness of:such an un-
kind charge. Primarily the Council social or-
ganization, a child of the social fraternities. The
principal purpose of the existence of the Council
is the promotion of dances. It is only reasonable
to willingly permit this Council to act so as to
prevent or mitigate financial losses. Yet in so
doing the Council draws the journalistic fire of
the author.

I quote from the author's article, “In the past
they (the Councilmen) bave not been spirited
enough to give their services to the best interests
of the student body without receiving some com-
pensation.” The student body has nevér: given
the Councilmen any compensation for its efforts.
What little surplus occurs is an incidence of good
business manipulation. The student body only
accords us its usual full measure of support. If
the sole purpose in sponsoring the dances was
to garner revenue into Council coffers we would
have long since advertised in Charlotte and en-
couraged non-student support.

The author finally indicts us on the count of
being on a “low level”, I submit the names of
the following men: A, C. Rogers, “Duke Glas-
gow, Joe Wadsworth, Bill Revenel, Fred Mc-
Phail, Hugh Yelverton, Charlie Harris, Bill
Atwater, and:Mims Rogers.

The above men composed the
Council of the current school year. Some of the
officers which they held are: Pres. of the senior
class, Pres. of the honorary fraternity Council,
Business manager of the Davidsonian, Captains
of basketball and track, managers of football and
basketball, lettermen in all four major sports, and
others too numerous to’mention. In addition,
six of the nine Councillors are members of ODK.
I leave the question to the Student Body at large:
Can such men be considered as being “ on a low
level” or as being devoid of school spirit?

In closing, May I explain the “Midwinters
situation” As the student body knows, there
was much talk about Kay Kyser playing for this
set of dances. The Pan-Hellenic Council honestly
thought that it had secured the services of this
famous orchestra, and even had a contract, ac-
cording to our legal adviser. However, we were
not in a position either to sue to demand their
presence. Assuming that this “second or third
rate orchestra” had not broken contract with us,
we would have charged $7.00 for the set. Let us
look at the expenses:—Band $1200, dance hall
$150, decorations, lights, crystal ball, lowers and
favors, $150, a total of $1500. Judging from past
experiences, we would have sold approximately
150 sets of tickets and had 150 paid admissions
Saturday night at $2.50 apiece. this totals $1425,
a loss of $75 at least. The U. of N. C., with no
Sapeite of ballroom floor and a student body of
2500 as opposed to our 650, charged $14 for their

Pan-Hellenic

(Set. As “compensation” for devoting our “time

‘and services to the student body”, we would have
gained entrance to the dances and been account-
able for a loss of $75 or more. Finaly, we ad-
virtised Paul Sabin and gave you Red Nichols
plus the favored artists of Paul Sabin for $5.00.
On that occasion we stood a loss of over $100.
Are we still to be condemned as sacrificing the

quality of entertainment “to satisfy our selfish
ends”?

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

Sample form of Canadian humor as published
at the University of Manitoba (Winnipeg)—It
is in the form of a riddle: “What goes 99 plunk?”
The answer, believe it or not, is “A Centipede
with a wooden leg.”

Chimes in Dr. Floyd A. Spencer of New York
University (New York) : “Many Phi Beta Kappas
cannot intelligently read the better magazines be-
cause their education has been departmentalized.”

This mad world is going madder trying to find
names for new types of madness.

‘their players.

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

By Harold Sugg

May we add our note of admiration
for Capt. Pritchett and of regret for
the leaving of a man who has given
Davidson a name and Davidson ath-
letics a spirit. Capt. Pritchett it the
one man at Davidson whose decisions
are accepted without question. He can
say more in fewer words than any man
we know. An accident last Sunday
night, altho unfortunate, illustrates his
popularity. Falling slave to capricious
outbursts, which happens every years
about this time, a number of Students
in a certain dormitory, were engaging
in the pleasant pastime of water-throw-
ing. Coming in from the rain his hat
yulled down and lapels up, Capt. Pritch-
ett was unrecognized and promptly
received his due proportion of water.

Many others, of stiff-collar dig-

nity, would have reacted differently
but Pritchett took it goodna-
turedly, the abashed students apolo-
gized and the unfortunate incident
passed off. Capt. Pritchett is the
symbol of all is that good about
Davidson.
Chubby King and his campus (e)
orchestra cotinued to win student favor
depite the recent setback of part of
We reached a pedadox:
we can have dances off the campus bit
not on, and dance bands on the campus
but not off. Their trio-Geddie Monroe,
Buddy Robinson and Pete McKnight—
yodle a good “Lullaby of Broadway”
and the throngs that appear nightly
applaud their arrangement of “White
Heat.”. They are giving their first con-
cert tonight. All are invited. The poor
lads have changed their theme song to
“The Prisoners Song.”

“Shy” Taylor, Bill Swope,,
“Wick” Richardson, Ab Price and
Garrant were sitting right on the
tails when the Kentucky Derby
swept by. Ray is off of psychi bids;
“Shylock” Taylor, the Merchant of
Davidson, is reported to have made
a profit even without betting and
P. D. is sporting a brand new
“shiner”, due to some blow. P. D.°
says it was a hotse’s but we don’t
believe it. As a popular professor
put it: “Guerrant got an eyeful of
the derby.

The Y. M. C. A. cabinet staged a
disgraceful debauchery at a houseparty
on the Catawba River Saturday. Find-
ing a whisky bottle in McClure’s pocket
can be excused but when he staggers
and nearly falls in the river, it looks
bad. Swimming and a picnic supper
are the relatable incidents. Prof. and
Mrs, Schenck were chaperones, despite
the Dean's recent ruling concerning
chaperones. “Dead Eye” Sprunt, “Vag-
abound” Coit, “Plastered” McClure,
“Paul Jones” Smith and “Seagrams”
Phifer took gals, Don Brandon and
Warren Babcock were the Stags and
Katherine Crowell, Julia Handson, Dell
Arbuckls, Mary Louise Moffett and
Elizabeth Phifer were the little deers.

Charlotte again fought Concord
for Davidson favor Friday night.
About ten of the good boys attend-
ed the affair at the Myers Park
Country Club. We have heard of
girls who walk home but we have
on the campus in person one Tom
Breeden who walked 3 miles from
the Club to the Charlotte Hotel at
3 A. M. Concord’s after effect was
even better than the dance. We
must thank “Mother” Verble that
all were not drowned. A bigger
affair is promised next Friday.
From one of the informed Seniors we

“Fire!” started at Davidson. In old
Chambers, the fraternity rooms were
in the wings and i¥ was necessary to go
thru the dormitory section to get to
them. Thus on those all-too-rare oc-
casions when girls are invited, “Fire!”
served a useful warning purpose least
some student be found wandering in
deshabille.

If this “Davidsonian” is even
worse than the least its because
Editor Brown and Managef Mor-
row went to Agnes Scott May Day
and Harris Barksdale didn’t take
good care of them.

ROCK HILL: attached the usual
number of geologists this week-end.
Salty Peters hits the trail quiet reg-
ularly. MAY FROLICS: Carolina
dances become even more predomi-
nantly Davidson dances. There were
thirty. RALEIGH: Joe Wadsworth,
George Norfleet, Howard Summerell
and: Billy Hill were four who took in
either the State Military Ball or the
Kapa Sig-Kappa affair or both, WE
SAW: Ken Knorr withja beautiful plat-
inum blonde in Charlotte Saturday. WE
HEARD: Sky Cline likes to have
morning dates in. Tuxedo. WE BE-
LIEVE: That Harpo has gone Hebrew
on us. °

‘WE KNOW: That Hugh Yelverton
and Goof Warren had a goocktime at
the NCCW May Pole exercises.

boxing, adding “Of course they will

heard an interesting version of how]:

: OUR.
ontemporartes

SPEED-QUEEN ....
At a recent typing exhibition at Cen-
tral High School in Charlotte, a young
champion made a record of 156 words
per minute. She is able to carry on a
conversation and type 120 words of un-
familiar manuscript per minute. At the
age of 17, this Miss Paulion won the
Nation 1 typewriting contest with 200
words per minute.
EXPERIENCE...

A Duke University Co-ed recently
advertised in the student paper, The
Duke Chronicle, for a man of “pleasing
countenance and unquestionable experi-
ence.” While resididents of the wo-
man’s dormitories at Washington State
Norman School (Ellensburg) are cam-
pussed for one week-end for necking in
the dormitory.

WAKE FOREST...

High School seniors who live “con-
eniently” near Wake Forest are invited
to attend the Commencement exercises
of the college . .. Wake Forest students
famaliarized themselves with court pro-
cedure at “moot” courts . . Freshman
at Wake figures he has 1,164,600 sec-
onds before seeing mother again...
Forty-one Wake men aré state legisla-
tors... 73% of Wake students ex-
penses are paid by the college. . .
EXCHANGES
The University of Minnesata impos-
es a fine of ten dollars on co-eds wear-
ing fraternity pins... But faculty
members of Columbia were given an)
intelligence test by the student paper
and the average score indicated a men-
tal age of 20... At Syracuse, the box-
ing coach advocated that girls take up

be starting from scratch, but—”...
Faculty members and classes are rep-
resented by horses in the “Greater
Agnes Scott” campaign... in the
Ohio state penitentiary there are 131
college graduates...
DID YOU KNOW...
“Its against the law in Georgia to
put your arm around a woman with-
out legal reason or excuse”, stated Prof.
Tom Green of the University of Geor-
gia’s law school. The gist of his
‘speech was personal liberty.... A
preacher is breaking the laws of Geor-
gia when he preaches on Sunday for
the state status says that a person is
not to follow his profession on the Sab-
bath, and a preacher is followin his
profession when he delivers the reg-
ular Sunday sermon.

CAN IT BE TRUE...

That eighty per cent of the girls at
Skidmore College (Saratoga Springs,
N. Y.) were truthful when they denied
that they had been kissed ... Even
Butler University (Indianapolis, Ind.)
co-ed weren't allowed to belong to se-
cret societies with young men in 1897,
because it was suspected that one of
the initiation rites was a kiss .. That
North Carolina State College now offers

Quips And Cranks
To Appear Soon

Should Be Ready For Students
Around May 20th.

The printers of the 1935 Quips and
Cranks, annual year book published by
the Senior class of Davidson college,
have promised to have the book ready
for delivery to the students by May 20.

Despite the fact that the printers feel
definitely certain that the book will be |
in the students hands by the above
date the editor, Bob Smith, says that
this can’t be depended upon as a sure
time for the issuing of the annuals.
He does assure us however it will be

off the press some time very soon after
May 20th.

Although nothing is known, defi-
nitely, regarding the camposition of the
1935, volume it promises to be an ex-
cellent publication.

... At the University of California
every male student must undergo two
weeks of football training, one in the
line and one in the backfield .. .

LEGSLATURE ACTIVITIES...
Two bills brought up for reading in
the N. C. State legislature were: One,
to make it lawful for any member of
the Legislature to throw a liquor party
while in Raleigh and another, to make
a member vote as he drank. . .The
student bar association at Ohio State
University offers free legal aid to any
student involved in a scrape with the
law...

COLLEGIANA...

In a group of 150 schools considered
as leading in the athletic field, 62 had
names of animals for their nicknames
..7A six-day cyclist race in now in
Progress as two letter fraternities con-
test for a been party and a $100 in cash
at the University of Georgia...

Two thousand wads of chewing gum
were recently taken from their resting
places under library tables at the Uni-
versity of Florida—some sticky? .. .
F. E. R. A. students at Virginia Poly-
technic Institute made better grades
during the first quarter of the current
year than their classmates .... At
Hunter College this year science is
found to be the most popular field a-
mong the freshmen .. .

Secretary of Labor, Frances Perkins
addressed the Duke Woman’s College
on the National Recovery Administra-
tion pointing out the advantages of this
institution . . . May Day: proved colos-
sical, gigantic, even stupenduous at
Southern female institutions ... Ray
Rex was awarded the coveted Alumni
athletic trophy in the recent student
body elections at N. C. State for that
honor ... Sally Rand of fan dance
fame, was once a student in the school
of journalism at Columbia University
...A professor at Roanoke College
claims that his students will be as
famous as Napoleon at the rate they
are going down in history . R. O. T.C.
unit rates excellent at Presbyterian

a correspondent course in plumbing

College...

‘rr was NEWS...

99 From DAVIDSONIANS
of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Annual athletic night held May 6...
Julian: Miller speaks to new O. D. K.
members .... Handbook to be out
about August 1.... New “Y” Board
of control chosen .... Jack Ramseur
elected president ol Glee Club....
Lawrence Smith and Dean Rusk chosen
managers of Student Store... . Delta
Phi Alpha, German Fraternity, installs
chapter at Davidson... . J. S. Meach-
am chosen president of Red and Black
Masquers for coming year .... Joe
McCall elected captain of Track Team
. . . Letters and numerals given in
Baseball, track, and tennis . .. . Movie
on Life of Wilson to be presented here.

TEN YEARS AGO

Thirteen men initiated by Reporters’
club .... North Carolina Collegiate
Press Association holds convention at
Davidson ... . Wildcats place third in
State track meet. . . >. Davidson de-
vaters win from Wake Forest
Davidsonian chosen best college paper
in state by North Carolina Colegiate

Press Association . .. . Announcement
made that Prof. H. E. Fulcher and Dr.
G. R. Vowles will be added to David-
son Faculty .... Wildkittens defeated
by State, 13—3,.... Senior Class to
remodle drinking fountain. ... I. R. C.
initiates nie men . ... . Frosh tennis
team plans for coming tour of the state.

FIFTEEN YEORS AGO

Wilcat nine defeats Wofford, 11—8.
.... Ten games booked for football
team for*coming~year .. +. Class. of
1915 planns for reunion at commence-

ment .... ‘Cats defeat P. C. 11—2.
.... Tennis team defeats Elon and
Trinity .... Davidson post of Amer-

ican Legion organized .... Miss Mary
Potter will give Vice recital at David-
son.... Dr. C. M. Richards decides
to remain at Davidson ... . Frosh-
Soph Debate won by Eumaneans... .
Davidson defeated by Furman, 3—1.
.... Dr. J. W. McConnell leads “Y”
vesper service . . . . Students Body
officers for coming year installed.

Cemmencement Invitations
Fraternity Publications

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

K. D. WEEKS

Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY
PRINTING Co.

2e
Representatiots -

Visiting Cards
Personal and Fraternity Stationery

CHARLOTTE, N.C... |

JOE WADSWORTH

“

