WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1936

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Three

The party given at Queens
day night. Nearly all of the fra
at this gala event. Most of the

JUNGAR TAKES
Aol PICTURES
HERE TUESDAY

Nine Fraternity Group Pic-
tures Taken on Monday
and Tuesday

FEW RETAKES REQUIRED

Football Teani’s Pictures Are
Among Those Taken

Mr. M. F. Dunbar, of Dun-
bar and Daniel in Raleigh, fin-
ished taking the pictures for
the Annual this week, leaving
Tuesday night. When he was
here before, most of the boys
had theirs made; but for those
who hadn’t» appointments
were arranged on Monday and
Tuesday. There were forty-
eight in this number, and also
a few re-sittings were required
for those who refused to ac-
cept the first.

On Monday afternoon the fol-
lowing fraternities were  photo-
graphed: Beta Theta Pi, Phi Gam-
ma Delta, Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
Pi Kappa Alpha, and Pi Kappa Phi;
and Tuesday the others: Kappa
Alpha, Kappa Sigma, Phi Delta
Theta, and Sigma Phi Epsilon.
These groups were shot at the
north end of Chambers. building
the steps. The time and sun
and space elements caused the de-
cision to take them there rather
than at the fraternity houses. The
photographer also took pictures of
the Scabbard and Blade, and the
freshman varsity football
teams, and managers. The
varsity players were snapped indi-
vidually as well as collectively.

on

and
their

Part of the art work for the An-
nual has already been completed,
and it is being done in a different
In this all-
year new

and revolutionary way.
important Centennial
schemes and methods are being in-
troduced to improve the publication.

Andrews Gives Talk

At a meeting of the local chap-
ter of Sigma Pi-Sigma on last
Monday night, John Andrews gave
a talk on the origin of mathematics.
This proved quite interesting and
helpful to the other members of
the chapter. Following Andrews’
talk, Professor W. N. Mebane of
the Davidson mathematics depart-
ment gave an educational discourse
on some oddities of mathematics.
He brought out many points of in-
terest and his speech was greatly
enjoyed by those present.

Suggestions were made during the
course of the meeting for a speak-
er to replace Dr. Ralph Graves of
the Duke University, who was un-
able to accept an invitation from
the fraternity to give a lecture
here on Founders Day. As yet, no
announcement has been made as to
who will take his place.

VAN NESS
213 N. Tryon

PHOTOGRAPHIC '
SUPPLIES AND
CAMERAS

was the main event last Fri-
ternities were well represented
fraternity men stayed over in
Charlotte after the game, several
of them being seen at the Carolina
Theater Saturday night.
: Beta Theta Pi
Julian Squires spent the week-
end in Rock Hill, S. C.
held Sunday
Wilbur
tion
The rest
Charlotte.
Pi Kappa Alpha
Walt Dickson
in Anderson, S.
Stet
parents in Matthews.
tried to get to China
about three hours but
Mooresville.

A feed was
night and it
Edwards made disserta-
“Animated
of the chapter

after
a
Prognosticies.’

ognosticies,
went to

on

went to his home
C., after the game.
Pledge Robinson visited his
Johnny Hor-
ton Grove
had to

The

for

be content with

night feed was given.
Kappa Alpha
Sob Abell went to Chester S.C.

Bill Preyer and Charlie Hines went

Sunday

to the Duke-Carolina game. Horace
Lutz whipped down to Chapel Hill
hasn't heard from since.
Quite a few of the boys went to
the Carolina Theater after the

game.

and been

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Bailey Williams visited his home
if Clinton; 3) G; Ed Armfield
visited in Asheboro after the game.
Perry Sloan visited John Irwin at
in Charlotte. Fry-
fogle wrote six letters to his girl
last week—it seems that this hap-

his home Ken

péfis every week, A feed was given

Sunday night with the members of

the coaching staff as guests.
Kappa Sigma’

Jim Dickson is sick in the col-
lege infirmary. George Norfleet at-
tended the Duke-Carolina
silly Higgin’s father
from Richmond, Va. the
chapter the week-end. Carl
Carlson and Raymond Pittman
went to Greensboro after the game.

Pi Kappa Phi

Pledge John Rackley went to his
home in West Jefferson. Bidwell
Ivey went to Rock Hill. “Tiger”
Terry started to China Grove but
ended up in Mooresville. Tom Cor-
bin took the Dutchess to the Car-
olina Saturday night. “Salty” Pe-

game.
and uncle,

visited

over

ters was unofficially recognized as
the at Queens
Friday night.
Phi Gamma Delta

George Jones visited his home in
Pledge Dan Gilliam
spent the week-end in Charlotte.
Most of the chapter took in the
party Friday night. Many of the
members went to the Queens party
Friday night. Mr. Brothers,
tion chief of the local chapter, vis-
ited Delta Kappa for several days
last week. Willemina Monroe of
the Fiji Islands, will attend Soph-
omore week-end.

Phi Delta Theta

Pete McKnight, Dennis Myers,
3illy Battle Crooks, Howard Cov-
ington, and Tom Breedon were the

handsomest man

Greensboro.

sec-

only ones who went astray Friday
night. Jim Westdll took in the
Duke-Carolina Albert My-
ers went to Gastonia. The weekly
feed was held.
Sigma Phi Epsilon

Pledge Dickson went to Greens-
boro. Miss Mary Willis, of Agnes
Scott, visited Jeff Moore over the
week-end. Butch Harper had a
date with Emily ... (anyway she
was the daughter of the President
of Centre). Bob Doty and Walt
Heilman went to their homes in
Tennessee. John Doty, Philip Fri-
berg, Dosey Summerville, and Lilly
White visited Winthrop. “Tiger”
Jim is recuperating after running
door

game.

into a closed

At the Bar—

He: How many drinks does it
take to make you dizzy?
She: Five, and don't call me

“Dizzy.”

White Drug Store

Davidson, N. C.
100% BEHIND THE STUDENT BODY

“DAVIDSON’S OLDEST AND BEST”

QUEENS - CHICORA BEAUTIES

&

4

Pictured above are six of the fourteen lovely Queens-Chicora College students who were sponsors
at the Davidson-Centre game Saturday. “The Davidson girls carried chrysanthemums tied with red and

black ribbon, while the sponsorée

for Centy@,had flowers with yellow ribbon.

They are, from left to

right, top row: Misses Frances Smith, Charlott@; Zoe Strawn, Charlotte; and Lillian Smith, Greer, S. C.;

Bottom row: Misses Dot Muse, Mountain Cit

Moore, Clinton, S. C.

Sponsors Add

Color to Centre Game;

_Take Places of Honor After Parade| "ts cottege stedents
° To add color to an already col \ delegation of Davidson — stu-
DR FRAZER HOOD 10 tk Lingle Speaks To orful game with Centre last vie dents attended a meeting of the
‘ Presbyterian Synods day in Memorial Stadium, Char-}] North Carolina Student Union for
lotte, some eighteen sponsors car-| the west central section of the state
MAKE LECTURE TOURS Recently Dr. W. L. Lingle jour-[rying bouquets of white and yel-|@t St. Peter's Episcopal Church in
neyed to Lexington, Ky., where he} low chrysanthemums entered the | § harlotte, Tuesday afternoon and
addressgd the Presbyterian Synod] stadium in four new automobiles. night. Dr. Egbert W. Smith, field
Psychology Professor Plans of Kentucky which was meeting to] Six of these are pictured on this] Secretary t6r foreign missions in
Trips Through Nearby celebrate the 75th anniversary of | page the Southern Presbyterian church,
States ° the founding of The Presbyterian The sponsors gathered at the | Ws the principal speaker,
Church in the United States. Chamber of Commerce and vafter \ series of devotionals, discus-
It has been annouticed that Dr. From Lexington Dr. Lingle then |“ ride in Wyparade through the) sion a PUSIES Ase ne ills
Frazer Hood of the Psychology De-| went to Atlatita, Ga.. to s oe aioe treets of - Charlotte, took their} program which, began at 2:30 and
Say gions ; me ; eeleal) Dea Sere | laces. of hoho he game lasted through 9:00. The Rey. Wal-
partment, will make several trips|to the Presbyterian Synod of Geor- eee Pelee UU ‘ A A Ss
and lecture in the near future. gia. : ; Phe: Alexandet.-Grahamneoligh Se TB RON ON hae a peas
On Thursday night, November 19 The subje eID I Ye og school hand dressed in red and | Baptist ¢ pure en et
he will go to Concord as a Buen dres ee ‘ 3 ee r nee ae white, paraded down the field, lead- | lormer missionary, al poDreaaey
of the men of Mekinnon icy was Ugoriecoe Weep! cH ee ee ing the sponsors. dn the middle of | the group, as ile DE, MOND IATE LE
terian Church at an anfiual opos- flee : f i s ‘f rena eae the field the girls divided, going} Chr Meteo 20. ee aon Bt
sum dinner. This dinner is to be Chureh.” i: peu enn Presbyterian to their respective sideline seats. Johnson C, Smith College and a
t ch. This address was deliv Among those who served as spon- | native ethiopian
nee ay, Soe which the] ered on the invitation of the synodiicore were: Miss Becky Cooke, An Three other institutions such as
of Bryden tee tt cea eat a pak Soe eres to the cele- | drews, S$. C.; Miss Betty Fayssous, | the one held in Charlotte yesterday
sears ae pie af ae tee ene of t 1¢ Jubilee Year i, CITC a ereneGalcri Nit Emily Fer-| are sche duled for the latter part of
eae oe ee Hee. e oni pun ing of the Southern Presby- ante (likeliest Mi Helen | this week in North Carolina towns.
goa stag affair, and the main] terian Church. wlatola Winchestet Va.: Miss| Ihey will be held at Rs eigh, on
eat a always opossum, This The address included the five fol Eloise ‘hay re : Clit Wain S Cu Miss | Phursday; Greensboro, Friday; and
tall ee a Mie enmeeatae lowing: topics as principal themes, | Dot Muse, Mountain City, Tenn.;} at lora Macdonald College AM Red
’ : ; C first, The church’s representative | \fiss Anne Pease, Charlotte; Miss] >prings on Sunday, Dr. Smith will
peas around the dinner table, form of government; its doctrine} Betty Purser, Charlotté; Mi do. | addre these meetings also,
Se Eee concerning separation of church] laide Schott, Charlotte} Miss] olleges invited to seid delegates
Ny MARIE > and state; its emphasis upon creeds;] Frances Sellers, Charlotte; Misses (Continued on Page 6)
i me its love for education and. stress! Frances and J flopinithsoh Green| Sooce., = =a=e=
The fifteenth annual meeting of upon a teaching ministry; its] s C:: Miss Zoe S Charlotte ee
the Southern Association of Col-] breadth and catholicity, that is, its antl Mi Lett npkia Char Year’s Big Football
leges for Women will be held in] freedom in communion and in join- fotte -olt
the Hotel John Marshall, Richmond, | ing the church. ‘ Special! 2-0-9
Va., on Tuesday, December 2. Dr. eg , : eries—
Hood will attend this meeting and rel eeieee Wee Ue an ralgrnn us : LOVE, the quest, marriage, the
¢ of Davidson, was the host to the :
deliver an address. Sih conquest, divorce, the inquest
ot he whole program of the Asso- Dr.’ Lingle spoke in the chapel of | Fable— : :
ciation is built around two ideas:| Columbia Seminary in Atlanta to] One time there was a little girl
namely, an integrated curriculum]a meeting of the Synod of Georgia] who didn't like to say words like
and an integrated student. Dr. Hood | following the same general lines pit and “pant On seeing a
will speak on the integrated stu-|that he had used in Lexington. Se dog ue ng down the street
dent, with special emphasis on the In response to numerous requests | she said; “O look how that saliva
question, concerning the extent to] the substance of these lectures by | dog trousers!” This same girl
which ‘religion can be made an in-] Dr. Lingle are to appear in four is- are so modest she wouldn't-even do
eee eg in a student’s per-}] sues of “The Christian Observer.” improper fractions. “ROSE
sonality. The integration means :
the harmonious development of al pg TL] BOWL”
person’s powers, physical, mental, |#™ n oa with
and social. The subject of his ad- ,T
; Bae TOM
dress will be: “The Place of Re-
ligion in Producing Integrated Per- BROWN
(Continued on Page 6) Uu r Og a Nn ELEANOR
ry WHITNEY
p v Buster Crabbe
EXPERT “Every Job a Good One”’ Benny Baker
WORKMANSHIP : AAAAAA
HIGHEST QUALITY atl Sau
Tues. 23-24-25
BUFF SHOE SHOP bilge
ene
HALFSOLES Standard Printing Company Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
HEELS On the Stage
0.¢. BUFF, Prop. 117 Garland Court Charlotte, N. C. “INTERNATIONAL
FANTASIES”
a7 57

y, Tenn.; Betty Fayssoux, Winston-Salem; and Eloise

COLLECTION ON
OPLAY HERE

Prof. Henry _Lilly Purchases
Rare Italian, Spanish and
Latin Copies

ARE BOUND IN VELLUM

Copy-Book Contains Name of
Peter Stuart Ney

A collection of old and rare
books is now on display in the
library.. These books date from
the seventeenth, eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries, and
are from the library of the
Hospicio de Dan Ildefonso de
Augustinos de Ks
panas e Indias, an old pilgrim-

Recoletos

age monastery of Spanish
monks at Rome.

They were purchased by Pro
fessor H. T. Lilly at public sale,
and have been placed on exhibition
in the library by him

The books are bound in vellum,
and are in Italian, Spanish, or Latin
Most »I them are concerning the
Roman Catholic Church; Defense
of the Church, Rules of the Church
Litany of the Church, the Cate
chisin, attacks on heresies

Published in Ventee, Florence, or
Naples, they are printed, as are all
Catholie books, Con licenza de
SUpeErre ri

Iwo of the more recent, dated
about 1792, have etched title-pages
The oldest dated about 1658.

On display also is a mathematics
copy-book used in the family of
Mrs. Frazer Hood, ,It is interesting
in itself, but what adds further in
terest for Davidson .is the auto
graph, in one corner, of Peter Stu
art Ney, said by some to be the
vreat Marshal of France, who tu
tored the bdys in this family,

STUDENT VOLUNTEERS
HEAR TWO SPEAKERS

Purpose to Publicize Missions

UBRARY NOW HAS SW
POPULAR NEW WORK
ON NUMEROUS TOPS

Books Are on, Physics, Psy-
chology, Language, Poetry
And Biography

CRITICS ENDORSE BOOKS

Latest Volumes of Prominent
Authors Bought

Galileo* to Cosmic
is the title of another
of the scientific works included
among the library’s new ac-
“The Anatomy of
Personality,” and “The Amer-
ican Language” are two other
of the new books.

“From
Rays,”

cessions,

Harvey Brace Lemon's _ book,
“From Galileo to Cosmic Rays” is
one of a new series of texts put
out by the University of Chicago in
a special plan they have recently
inaugurated. Of it a freshman re-
marked: "This sics with a
smile His profess says: “It is
the answer to a fervent prayer.”

Haggard and Fry, the authors of
“The Anat Per },—are
two psycl wl have writ-
ten much ning psychological
mechanisn In their present vol-
ume, they discuss the man behind
each, explaining, not why people
have complexes and breakdowns,
but what sort of people have them.
They make it possible for everyone
to read the personality of his neigh-
bor,

H. Lo Mencken's great Modern
Classic, “The American language,”
is in its fourth edition, corrécted,
revised, and enlarged. It is almost
a different book. Thoroughly sci-
entific, it is at the same time an
extremely diverting piece of read-

{ 1

odd

be found
Mencken's
many enthusiastic? enemies have ac-
as definitive, The

ing, full « tuff to

nowhere — else even

claimed this |

afticle, “What Is Slang” in the Oc-
tober Reader's Digest was quoted
from this work.

“A Further Range” is Robert
Frost's latest volume of poems. Of
this volume, Herschel Brickell of
the New York Post says: “Deep
wisdom and subtle humor... pe-
culiar and individual beauty to be
found nowhere else in English po-
etry. It is -a recent selection of
the Book-of-the-Month Club,

Two recent biographies “are
“James Watt, Craftsman and Engi-
neer,” by H.W. Dickinson, and
“Brandeis; the Personal History

of an American Ideal,” by Alfred
Lief. The first hook shows Watt
not only as the great figure in the

early development of the use of
steam power, but as a craftsman.
Phe second book is the life history

of Brandeis, a man whose name has
come to stand for the principles of
liberal Democracy; a man who has
worked for twenty years as a mem-
of the Supreme Court with a
conviction that the Constitution
a living charter to be used in meet-
ing the world,

ber
is
modern

needs of a

a faster
style pace

It used to be a common saying,
"Men's styles never change.”
And people were very nearly
right. Suits two and three years
old looked almost identical to
one bought the month before.

All that's changed nowl
There's a Faster fashion tempo.
Each season sees noticeable
Important style details which
stamp a suit or coat as this sea-
son’s model—and nothing else!

And never was that swifter
style pace better demonstrated
than in our Hart Schaffner &
Marx showing for Fall, 1936.
In pattern, fabric, color, model,
every suit and topcoat in this
great Hart Schaffner & Marx
collection of ours unmistakably
says—"'Fall, 1936,”

J O JONES INC

Preity

210 So. Tryon
