VOL. XXIII

“DOC” UNGER RESIGNS ©
POSITION AS COACH
OF ’CAT WRESTLERS

(uy

ALENDA

DAVIDSON COL

LUX

e Wavidsonian

UBI ORTA LIBERTAS,

LEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 29, 1936

FREDDY MARTIN TO
START MID-WINTER
FRIVOLTIES FRIDAY

NUMBER 13

GONCERT BAND
70.60 ON CBS
FEBRUARY oth

Dixie Network to Feature New
Series of Programs Wed-
nesday Evenings

acre

EIGHTEEN STATIONS

Quarter Hour to Be Devoted
To Band Entirely

The Davidson College Con-
cert Band will be featured over
the Dixie Network of the Co-
lumbia- Rroadcasting System
in a series of programs begin-

ning Wednesday, February 3. |

at 7:15 o'clock.

The Dixie Network consists of all]]”

stations south of Charlotte, eigh-
teen in number. These include Dal-
las and Houston, ‘Texas; Little
Rock, Arkansas; Miami, Jackson-
ville, and Orlando, Florida; and
others. The band will broadcast
from Chambers Auditorium Ws us-
ual, and the program will be sent
out over the network through WBT,
in Charlotte. Nevertheless, — the
programs can not be heard from
the Charlotte station.

These programs will be broad-
cast Wednesday evenings, from 7:15
to 7:30 o'clock, beginning February

—3-—The quarter hour. will be de-
voted to the band entirely, not to
the orchestra or glee club.

This broadcast will not take the
place of the regular Friday night

, program over WBT. This will con-
tinue as a quarter-hour broadcast,
from 10:00 to 10:15 P. M., instead
of a full half hour as. before.

Pest card pictures of the concert

band -have—been prepared by. the’

music department, and will be sent
upon request.

Church Group
Elects Lingle

Dr, W. L. Lingle was clected
president of the North Carolina
Council of Churches for the coming

year at a recent meeting. The coun-
cil_met at the First Presbyterian
Church of Greensboro. 6

The other newly -clected officers
are as follows:

Dr. W. W. Peele, pastor of First
Methodist church, Charlotte. first
vice-president: Rev. Walser Hi. Al-
len, pastor of the Moravian church,
Kernersville. second vice-president:
Rev. J. A. Wache, rector of Saint
Andrew's Episcopal church, Greens-
boro, secretary lweasurer.

As outimed im. the constitution,

the purpose of the council is as
follows :
“"(1) To promote ielowship and
mutual understanding among the
fotlowers of Christ constituting the
communions of North Carolina: (2)
To serve as a medium of — inter-
church advice and counsel on mat-
ters affecting the progress of Chris-
tianity in ‘the state; (3). To asso-
ciate the communions in such joint
service as may achieve more cffec-
tively the objcetives of the Chris-
tian religion.”

The meeting consisted of two ses-

sions, at which they discussed world

relationships,
various com-
the National
and temper-

peace.—inter - racial
Easter services in the
munities fe the Seate,
Youth administration,
ance.

‘Y’ SENDS DEPUTATIONS

The SY" sent ceputations last
Sunday, the 26th, to the Charlotte
“Y" and to the Davidson Colored
Church.

J. Walter Dickson and Charles R.
Rixler went to the Charlotte VY. M.
C. A. the iormer speaking to an
older group of, boys, the latter tak-
ing charge of the younger boys.
This is part of a regular program,
Davidson sending two men each
Sunday afternoon to speak to these
hoys of high school age.

Reid Newland, and David Wood-
ward spoke to the Colored Church,
discussing -Missioitary work in Ko-
rea and the Philippines.

CAMPUS SET TO
ENJOY WEEKEND
COMING FRIDAY

EARLY APPEARANCE IS
EXPECTED OF ANNUAL

Work on the 1936 edition of
QUIPS AND CRANKS has pro-
gressed so rapidly that at the
present time 90 per cent of the
material has been sent to the
printers. The date for the de-
livery of the annual cannot be
set-yet, but it is expected that
this year's edition: will be out
several weeks earlier than has

“formerly been the custom.

a
The photographer will return
to the campus within the next

ten days to take basketball,
wrestling, and intramural pic-
tures.

Seniors who. intend te make

application “for graduate study
and who need application pic-
tures may secure them from L.

M. Grimes in 9 Georgia. Stu-

dents who need their pictures for
other purposes will be able to
get them at the same place.

Masquers to
Present Play

College Actors Considering
Three-Act Comedy For
Next Production

The Red and Black Masquers
have under consideration for their
next production “The Queen's Hus-
band,” a comedy in three acts.

This play, by Robert I. Sher-
wood, is a “take-off” on Queen Ma-
ric, of Roumania, a satire on the
dominant type of wonlan. Ite has
twelve male and four female char-
acters. This play was dramatized
on a recent radio broadcast.

The dramatic:'club has also had

under consideration “Journey's
End.” “Houseparty.” and “Torch-
bearers.”

Thé taree act play selected will
probably be presented within the
next three weeks. “Production will
begin as soon as the various roles
have been filled. All men who are
interested and have not had try-
outs previously are urged to sec
Dave Herring, president of the Red
and Black Masquers. Following
thisfproduction, the dramatic club

intends to present_a program entire-
ly devoted to original one-act plavs.

Debating Team Busy

Training For Season

The debating team, under the
supervision of Dr—G—k. Nrown,
is having coach-elasses in prepara
tion tor a very active 1936 season.

The subject jer this season's dis -
cussion is: Resotved that Congress
should have power to over-ride Ly
a two thirds matonty, any five-
faur decision of the Supreme Court
declaring a law unconstitutional”

The tirst' trip that the devating
team will make will be an exten-
sive souheastern tour, starting Feb-
tuary 25. Tyler Port and Wade
Boggs will debate on this trip, the
University of South Carolina, the
University of Florida, Miami Uni-
versity. and Emory.

Then, about three weeks later, a
team made up of Harold Sugg and
Wilbur Edwards will make a west-
ern tour, Their activities will car-
rethem into Tennessee. Kentucky,
and Virginia. James Selango and
Bob Stewart, composing the third
team, will make a northern trip
which wili carry them to Washing-
ton.

There is a tentative debate set
for February 21st wetti Washing-
ton and Lee, here at Davidson. |

A columnist at South Dakota
State college reports overhearing
twa girls conversing in front of the
hank, store. One girl was telling
the other how to entertain her boy
friend, “Ask the fellow to be scat-
she said. “and tell him where.
Otherwise the poor simp may sit in
a chair instead of the davenport.”

ed

Sophomores at Haverford Junder-
go a éomprchensive examination of
2.725 questions. Twelve hours are
vequired to complete it.

| Freddy Martin’ s tin’s Orchestra To
Be Main Feature of Week-
End Dance Set

WILL BE AT ARMORY

Pan-Hellenic Council Lives Up
To Expectations

The Davidson Mid-Winter canes.
will begin at ten Friday evening to
the strains of reddy Martin's or-
chesira. The Pan-Hellenie Coun-
cil has aimest completed its plans
for what they say will be-the most
chjoyable umd winters in several
years, ‘

‘Lhe three dances of the set will be
held in the Charlotte .\fimory. The
Friday night formal dance will take
place ten and stwo, The
Saturday afternoon tea dance will
begin at four and end at six-thirty.
and the dance, that night will be
from. cighty-thirty uagl twelve.
Both af the latter two will be in-
formal.

As has been the custom in the
past there will be a figure formed
just betore the imtermission at the
Friday might dance. This year how-
ever each fraternity will be repre-
sented in the figure, not only by the
counsel mombers and their dates,
hut also by one other member from
each fraternity with his date.

The following men will be in the
figure: Phi Gamma Delta, Cokey
Branton and J}. B. Goslen; -Kappa
Sigma, Charley Thompson and one
other not selected by the time this
went to the press; Sigma Alpha Ep-
siton, Tom Marchant and Lamont
Brown: Beta Theta Pi, Bill Cof-
fin and one other; Phi Delta Theta,
John Partridge and Ab Price; Sigma
Phi epsilon, Wiley Bradley and
Martin Barnett; Pi Kappa Phi,
Herb Willis and Mills Taylor; Pi
Kappa Alphay Bill Archer “and
Charley Hamrick; Kappa Alpha,
Keg Warris and Tom Downie. Prac-
tises for the occasion will be held
throughout this week, § ——
* Freddy Martin's orchestra has
just finished an engagement at the
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel m-—New
York, and will open soon at the
Aragon Ballroom in Chicago. Fea-
tures of the orchestra are the Mar-
tineties trio: Elimer_ and
Feldcamp, baritone; Terry Shand,
blues singer and Freddy Martin
himseli, playing the saxophone.

Novelties and other features have
beenarranged tor the two Saterday
danees. _ Fddie Sehaaci, drummer
and comie singer, will perform at
these occasions.

between

Practically every fraternity on the
campus is planning a party or ban-
quet tecadd to the revelry of the
occasion. Comment among the siu-
dents-seems to point to the fact that
all are looking forward to a gala
week-end, and many dates have
been invited to join in the testvi-

ties. a

Cantor Offers

Education in Contest

To Award Four Year $5,000
Scholarship For Letters on
Keeping Out of War

Eddie Cantor will award a four-
year schoftship and complete main-
tenance at any American college or
university to the person who writes,
in the opinion of a distinguished
board of judges. the best letter on
the subject “How Can America Stay
Out of War?” Cantor has set aside
a fund of $5,000 for this purpose.

The subject ot the vompetition
wuS suggested by Newton D. Baker.
tormer Secretary of War, with
whom Cantor had discussed his pro-
posal.

The judging body comprises four
noted American educators—each the
president_of a prominent educational
institution, They are: Robert M.
Hutehins. of the Universjty_of Chi-
cago: Frederick Bertrahd , Robin-
son, College of the City of New
York: Ray Lyman Wilbur, of Le-
land = Stanford University; and
Henry Noble MacCracken of Vassar
Collége. All have heartily enflorsed
this project in the — interests ‘of
peace and education. Their deci-
sion will be final.

‘The Eddie Cantor,

t —

scholarship

adhe sum oi $5000,

RANSOM GIVES
LECTURE UPON
FEIN oUUTH

Has

a

GERALD JORDAN
MING FEB.

Pastor of Centenary Methodist
Church, Winston-Salem,
To Preach

Speaker Studied— and
Taught at Home and Abroad;
Was Rhodes Scholar

WRITES POETRY, PROSE

COACH UNGER RESIGNS
AS MAT SQUAD TUTOR

‘Popular. Coach Closes Career
Here; Has Held Post For

Seven Years
PRODUCES CHAMPIONS

Student Body ody Shocked, Sad-
dened By. His Decision

Nine Davidson Seniors
Named For Who’s Who

In American Colleges

‘Nine members of the Senier, Class
were selected to be in the AVbO's

. . : | the yresignation
Who amone Students ia American wd Ue Pest gna Lior

The news

_. . -fat Coach J. W. (Doc) Unger
“mversities “and Colleges. AU off! Cyach J. FS
Limversities “and Colleges. reached the ears af a dis-

these men are inembers af ODK.

Martin arnett. stu-

approving anc regret

Has Been Vanderbilt Professor} the Keverend Gerald Ray Jor-] Fhe men are: dent body here last Wednesday
For 22 Years dan. pastor of the Centenary Metho | “Cokey” ranron, Lawiont Vivown, morning.
; en Me } an) cFlip" Ce 2, Carlton hapinan.

; ; ; dist) Chueh, Winston Salem, will} “lip . Cathey, Carl " a rhe announcement wt Coach Un-_
—Lrofesser John Crowe Rate [he the guest mister nest Sunday | Dan Grutin, Gob Lindsay, Prosser ers resignation cantiejas a ‘severe
som, a member of the tacntry Fevening, February 2 ~~ } Morrow. and Cole Windham, — Fale to the inany. iriends ‘and pupils

are ~ ve . - . oo . : - |) : ay “HdS a :
of Vanderbuly University sinee) tev, Jordan was born in Kinston,| Martin Barnett is a member of or the popular member of the
IO, and professor or Enghsh| sO tle received an ALG. irom} Sigma Phi Epsilon, ocial irater- coachinggstai. Coach Unger will
there, since 1924, delivered al trinity College, now Duke Uni-juiy. Omicron Delta Kappa, Seab-] ane he same capacity here
lecture ia the Chambers .\udi- verstty, aad later attended E Smory Thartand Blade, Gamma Sigma Ep- unl June Is. —
torium fast might on the sub-) University in Adanta, Ga. where} len. and Delin Phe Alpha. TeJ° Unger ts atgraduate of Indiana’
ee : } Voli i ad . . oe al Ee a hied of “Ouins’ and f TREE s arg atc Oo ana
ject, “.\ Southern Policy to Fit} he received a DAD. ad Yate Uni- [is alse Kditer-in Chief of “Quins” anc University where te was ior two
‘ _ Jeers : om eos . . Tae Onna preside » Pub- ~ ” ‘ une
Southern Prejudices. versity, fran which he received an Cranhs an president of the Pub years on the Indiana footbali team

AN capy of dhe leetwwe Was not] A MI (fe was vers active in colle lications Board. dud. in his tinal year at'thac insti+

available in time for publication in
The Davidsonian,

lite, being a member ot O.D.K. KOA.

Briton is a member of
social fraternity,

“Cakey”

; tution, champion (in the antimited
Phy Gamina Delta,

Professor Ransom was born in ei and many othe Omicron Delta Nappa. Scabbard class) of the we en Conterence
Pulaski, Tennessee. and attended Soon after his graduation he was| and Blade, and Siguna Dena Vi dte| resting PelOre COMMA TO In-
: / ; > : Ss et: as] 4 ole ._ | than, Coach Unger was a member
Vanderbilt. where he carned his] cated to the pastorate o1 the| is ipeesident of the Pan-tellenic oi the Mississipi -State football.
B.A, degree. He later attemded | yterhodist Church in Wack Moun-| Council? team ,
Christ College at Oxford as a tain, N.C. Rev. Jordan has served Lamont Brown is a member of Wrrstling teams under the tnte-
Rhodes Scholar, 1910-1913, and was fly pastor inv many North Carolina| Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sacial Fra- lage oi. Coach Coser have had on-
there also awarded aD. A. Un VIS) cities — namely, Asheville, Greens- teruity, aud Ounieron Delta Kappa. usually good records, winning the
he served as an instructor at the fare, Charlotte, and High Point. ble is Editor tn Chiet of “The Dart State chat pionship last year. Une
Saumur Art Sehoot.in Branee, and} Since 1933 he ha’ been pastor of @NSoniaa” anda member of Seab-| yi yi, cfinclbing, such stars as
" Wot Lose he spent 2 von Soe. the Centenary Church in Winston | RR Bie ' pi Conway, Myecafid Blackwelder have
and, as Guggenheim Fellow for] Salem, ° “Eltp" Cathey is a member of Pil) —
“creative writing.” and as a mem-| presides being a very popularand) Kappa Alpha, Social « Fraternity, toh te va nee
ber of the staff of University Col- well-known preacher. Rev. Jordan Omicron Delta Kappa. . Scabbard ot his matmen. Kort and. Black-
lege of the South West, at Exeter. ie the author of many books aad, #Md Blade. and “D" Club. Tle is] der. went 40 the ratronal: meet

Mr. Ransom, a Phi Beta, Kappa] contributes articles to numerous; President of the Athletic Associa-| in Chicago. ,
and a member of Kappa Sigma} Christian Magazines, (Continued ‘on Page 6) Ino an interview avith Coach Un-
social fraternity, has published a a! = ner, he Stated. “1 have very much
number of books, both pectry and] eo . . : enjoyed the stay at Davidson and
prose. A list of these follows: y . trie : .

Poems About God, 1919; Chills Former Rules Exp osed my iriends here. 1 am most ser-

and Eeververse), -1924 Grace Ait-

iously considering two other posi-

) C > lians, one a coaching job. another
or Meat oak ( noe we ce In Old Wildest Booklet in business.” When asked if he
tlenien in Bonds (verse), 1926; Goc thonuht wrestling would %

’ BS _ 5 nye Uing id De con
Without Thunder, 1930. He alsol— D. C. Regulations For 1872 Ac-| tinned after this season, and. ift so

contributed a chapter to the group-
book, “TH Take My Stand.” which
is studied in the economics conrses
at Davidson.

NEW STUDENTS
ENROLLED FOR
NEXT SEMESTER

Four

Military Me Men
Will Initiate

C. L. Mann Joins Scabbard and
_ Blade Last Saturday

The members o1 Seabbard and
Blade, honorary military group, will
hold their semi-annual imitation at
seven o'clock Wednesday night,
January. 29. on the second floor ot
Chambers Building?

new students have exrolled
for the coming semester in the ot-
fee ov Mr. Hengeveld, the registrar.

These students are G: D. Cassell,

tually More Severe Than

undgr
Those of Today

whose direction, he stated,
“LT dowt know for sure if wrestling
will be continued. here next year,

but tou is tesumed, Parks Harri-
seem almost liberal when compared fsun seems to be the man in line for
with some of the rules found in and the position.”
vld handbook of the laws of -Dav-] --) have worked with” wrestling
idson Colfege for 1872. teams Here for six vears and 1 have
In these ‘goad old daws.1 it seems | worked with three hundred men,
that the Days were actually expected to] conservatively esGmaling, and only
study. Tasten ty dns: “Vhe hours about fifty Of these three hundred
oi study shall be trom the Gime off have been pardcipants in any other
morning prayer till 12 o'clock tioon (Continued. on Page 0)

and from 2 to $ PL Ati again trom
Small Schools ——

Our college regulations af today

Jr. ftom Max Meadows, Va.; W.[), The new mea seho will be inte
1. Mefwinen from Fayetteville: C.fated are: First Liewtenant WL.
> Sears. from Barium Springs..and| Grown, iret Lieutenant TOE.
W. BL Young, from Charlotte. All of | Downie, Second lieutenant L. ‘T
these students have attended Day-} Purnell, First Creutenant RC.
idson in past years. There are also] Sours, and First Lientenant WLR.
twa ospecial’ students enrollyd for] Vabers—lirst tieutenant CCL.
th® coming semester. Mann: who was asked to become a

ot this chapter with the
foreguing, group, wis injuated last
Saturday, due to the fact that he is
transtormtig thus, semester.
Vhe mitiation wifl be held in
uniforn&

member

Withant—ianguage we could nat
think, and it is not unfair to say
that our capacity for reason varies
roughly with dur vocabulary. Ode-
gan.

ial

There will be no more senior offi
cery of the KO. T. C. unit eligible
for membership to Scabbard. and
Blad?¢ this year. However. fiiteen
Juniors will be taken in to tbe local
chapter later this spring. } .

Brown is senior irom Barium
Springs. He is editor of “The Dav -
idsonian,” a inember of the Student
Council, ODI. and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon. social fraternity.

Downie is editor of “The Yow,”
president of the LR.C. and a mem-
ber of Kappa Alpha social Trater-
nity. —

Purnell is judge of the, Court of
Control. a member of the Red aad
Black Masquers, O.D.K., and Kappa
Sigina social fraternity.

Sours fs a member of Kappa Sig-
ma social fraternity,

Vaber-is varsity manager of track,
and a member ot Phi Gamma Delta
social fraternity.

Entire

a

competition has no commercial af-
hliation whatsoever. It is entirely
a personal matter with him. There
are no restrictions or conditions —
every man, woman or child. is eh-
gible 10 participate. However in
the event that the ‘winning letter
is from an individual unable to avail
himself or herseli @i a college’
course, then he or she must desig-
nate another to be the recipient of
the award. The choice of school
and the time of attendance is op-
tional. The letter is nat to be over
500 words,

As soon as the dest letter is de-
termined by the indges, Cantor will
deposit in the winner's local bank
which can be
used only for the specific purpose
of a college career. I’rom ‘this
amount, an adequate allowance will
be provided for the student to pay
his entire tuition and }j ving expenses
during the four Year term. The
latter will receive tlie acerudd in-
terest on the money.

In speaking of this national schol-

Although blind for 25 years, Perry
Hale. Yale At-American in 1900,
hasn't missed a garae since the day
the doctor told him he would néver

ste again,

A Sense of humor is recommended
as a philopophy of life by Dr. Rob-
ert C. Clothier, Rutgers president.

to tear off the top of a carton of
Continued on Page '6)

draws most foreign students to Ger-
many. philosophy fewest.

required in

the ringing of the evening study
Stand Highest

bell? till bveakiast ext morning:
daring which tim all students are
to remain their rooms

“The RhiGdes Scholarship eetions

in 1435, nslicate that the

ot high standards is

unless called away to some college
urgent neces-

avery good plaice in which to qual-

Ny ApPornttnengt

sity. me
They did not play football, and
In finelysinge the results of the elee-
tins ot 12 pd 1960, Fhe Daa ideo

hsacutts and siadar fheatls of pus
“When ibe dustrict plan ot

uh tit were forbidden.
“Any student convicted of sending

appomtng Rhodes Scholars was subs
stitited for the state plas, ‘in was

a challenge tomfrebt a
teared hy many that the new arrange-

exercise or by some

Decentber,
small college
expression
{ lor
or reeeiving
ducl, or carrying such challenge. ar
ot betng WT second ina duel, shati
immediately distnissed We the
Prtulty, and, as soon as practicable,
expelled by the Hoard ot Yrus-

boy stated .

be

tees,” ment would result in the concentra-
Every day was Sunday then, and [tion ot appointments in the densely
Sunday School cthies were strictly | pepulited nerthcastern states ard in

upheld. ‘No studem shall make any the richest a most powurial univer-.

festidy entertainment within the | sities. Actually the opposite has hap-
precincis, vi the ‘College or else. {pened. At the first election con-
where, or contribute to it, withoui | ducted accetding 1o the new plan,

irom the faculty.”
"Xo student shall play at cards.

leave jour small colleges, ieluding David-

son. were Stccessiul (Dean Rusk,
dice, or other intmoral games. or] 1929). 1930) was perhaps the ban-
buy, keep. or ase-in his room. orfuer year itr small colleges, nine,

elsewhere. avith enrollments ranging from +325
to 857, being represented.

1935 was again a triumphant year .
for the small colleges of distinctive
type. Ot the thircy-cwo Rhodes
Scholars appointed in December,
eight were trom colleges with less
‘tuhadu Sud students.

Certain other indivichugl-institu-
tigis my yer bec singularly success-

intoxicatine liquors
Nor shali he keep. or
kept for him, a gun; pistol,
dick, or other Geadly weapon. or
visit Uppling houses or other places
of ill fame. or use profane language,
or be guilty af any other grossly
immoral conduct whatever, under
severe penalties.” ,

“It shall be the duty othe pra-

any
or, bitters,
have

lussurs to watch over the morals] iul in plact: -* Rhodes  sSeholars,
aud maunets of the students.” notably Tlatward. Yale, Princeton,

Hfoor iclows! When they entered | Dartmouth. the University ot Vir-
schook they were in for it forcour|ginia, ahd the’ Waited States Mihe
years, “No ‘Student shall leave thpjtary. and Naval Academies. This
college grounds to visit his home ot year, three of these, institutions,
any other ptace whatever, or go be- Princeton, Yale, and ‘the Univer-
yond the hmits of an ordinary walk[sity of Virginia. furmtshed two

lor. recreation. without permission
trom the iaculty’” Whenever an ab-
from recitation, is invoived;
thé student must exhibit to the jac-

scholars cach of the 1935 election.
During the thirty-one years since

the tounding of the Kaodes Schol-

arships. Davidson Cellege has won

SeNnce

arship competition, Cantor said: ulty a special written request trom Seven. ay average of one every \
There are absolutely no «strings |—There aré 363 American students -his parents or guardian.” tour or ‘ive years. The distribu-
attached to this offer. No one has|at German | universities. Médicine| “The students shall be responsible | tion has been somewhat uneven:

to the faculty for their conduct in| two in 1907, and one each in 1919,
(Continued on Page 6) 1923, 1920, 1930 and 1935,
