The Dabidsonian

_ Founded By the Class of 1915

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Piiblished Weekly “For a Bettcr Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte,

North. Carolina

- SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, unuer the act of March Sed. 1379.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

mustihe in the hands of Managing Fditors by 4:0) o'clock
p.m. Monday. Letters to the Editor are, welcome. but alt
communications intended for publseation must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN
R. P. MORROW, Jr.

- EDITORIAL STAFF
.-Managing Editor
-Managing Editor
Managing Editor
* Managing Editor

Jin’ Morton__-..
 lOWELL OverRTON
Harotp Succ...
Day¥MoNnD TURNER

Joun Winn ee. -Managing Editor
Harky Kuykuxps Sports Editor
Martin Barne. -ociate Editor
Harvey Gtass. =ssaciate Editor
Patt [ARLan. _-cissociale Editor
Tom MARCIIAN: _-issociate Editor
Joux Waker. ssociate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
Cuarres Mavze. ..-Cirewlation Manager
Bop VaNcE------  .----- Circulation Manager

Hoxe—Rosrxson . wldvertising Manager

Bue Hitt... lle Collection Alanager
Pitt Dyerten.._... ‘Issistant Business Alanager

25. 1936

WEDNESDAY, MARCEL

strong in the Lord, and

Finally, my brethren,, he
{ might, Ephes. 6:10.

in the power of His

THINGS DAVIDSON NEEDS...

- New Infirmary —

New Gymnasium

New Library

New Dormitories

New Science Building

Social Center

An Enlarged Curriculum.

Paragraphics....

Congratulations to The Mowl stafi om ee cur-
rent issue oi that resurrected Periodical, which
almost saeritieed itself on the proverbial alrar of
journalism,

x kK ex

The squabble over Dr. Frank Graham of the
University of North Carofina has hecome a po-
liacal isstie in this state and may be a deciding
factor in clecting the next Governor *

Lt *

. «

Congratulations to the Red and [lack Mas-
quers for the second excellent periormance they
have put on this year. Miss Letitia Currie. we
understand, got up irom asbed of jiiness to take
her part as leading lady in this very enlertaining
drama.

2 a

+

‘\ pun worth printing : “\doli may he the best
Tier. in Germany, but he would have di(fficuiv
even rating hat bovin the United States.”

Au Revoir....

Swan songs «re conventionally apgecoriatc
when old orders give way to the new. when eiders
drop to the sticeceding younger generation a heri-
tage that should be inereased and -willed on in
furure years, and when a college editor hands
down to his chosen successor the responsibilities
which he has carried on from his prececessors.

During the past year sorne opportunities have
been grasped and made use of, many others
knocked upon deat ears and died from non-use.
lt is hoped that partially, at least, all traditional
characteristics have been upheld during the
twentieth year of The Davidsonian's ‘existence.
And most of all it is hoped that The Davidsonian
has in some way made its motto, “For a Better
Davidson,” more real in the minds of the stu-
dents, faculty and alumni.

In some way this motto is rather absurd. No
college paper would he used as a detrimental
force on its campus, but at the same time it re-
minds us that we never reach the time when we
can draw up an easy chair and proudly warm by
the fire, fully confident that our college is the
best, there is no more room for improvement, so

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1936

Old Land Marks....

On the very tront of the Davidson campus are
five time worn editices, wittch have weathered the | OFF THE
decades sinve the colicge was founded about onc | PRE
hundred vears ago, Fach of these antiquated Y RECORD
structures is steeped in traditional and senti- | Piggy
mental memories of by-gone years that should ,
‘arouse within us appreciable pride sutlicient to a
encourage better care in the use of them ds well ti
as an interest in secing that they present favorable
appearances to passers by. i

‘The Eumenean Literary Society hall, of which
Woodrow Wilson was onee a member, makes an
unsightly impression both to drivers along the
highway and to students who see it daily as they
irek to and from the post office. The walls are Be a
hawered and ugly. One window biind is hanging y)
hke a drunk trom a Jamp post and the wood work Y HAROLD
at the front of the building is rickety and un-|}The Last Column
attached,

DAVIDSON

SUGG

The mottled noises_of a busy col-

This general dilapidation in appearance seenws|!¢&¢ Soing about its inclinations
‘ achieve the steady hum of cighty-

to give every. Fom, Dick and Harry in the neigh- thirty .o’clock, which will last un-
horhood license to use the old landmark just as be lti) eleven and then shade off. in-
pleases, utterly irregardless of its sacred place in|terspersed with light plaintive ra-
Davidson's history. dios and late-hour rousers, until it

Was > is as quict as the night is dark. The
Pi Hall, Oak and Rim row and Shearer [all seratch and platter of ever so many

are the remaining members oi Davidson's original | waiks, the garbles of laughter, the
quadrangle, and even though they don't seed the | quict bulling and thelslam of doors;
attention that Eu Lall does, a coat of paint would |and then there is that swelling

i i ; Wy float of Guy Lombardo’s music,
improve their looks considerably. the fragile harmony of mellow

These "old landmarks” mean much less 10 the | saxes, tinselled with trumpets. And
students now in the student body, than to those | pretty svon there will be another

Lwho have long since passed throngh these noble | band. with throbbing rhythm and

wates. hut they were at one time all Davidson had. |# hot trumpet hastily splurting out

ae - notes as tho they were blistering
So in approaching the close of one hundred vears his lips. But there will always be

oi edueational service these ancient shrines should {tif whistting. the slam and shud-

Le elothed in pleasing appearances that would |]der of doors and someone discuss-
inerease our pridé in them and enhance our desire iM reviews teaming ama window.
. itil eleven oo... ntl two,
to preserve them. School For Untrained Voices

In the interests of the employ-
mentof the graduating Senior class
When Do We Start.. ee _ [We suggest the establishment of a
. . “*T voice School for those navices. who
\ few weeks ago there appeared in these col- plan.to enter a profession where A
umns an editorial on the urgent need for a new /dilicrent voice would be ruinous.
infirmary at Davidson. At the head of the edi-|\We wou'd have a special apparatus
torial section there is printed this weck a list of | Or singers which would grasp the
the trings which scem to us the mos: outstanding vocallzer by the, shoulder and lift
aes . ~ {him at intervals and Jet him drop
additions that shouid be made at Davidson within! a, ine end of words. THe would
the next year or two. then say. “ugh!" and after so much
The infirmary. as has already been stated, is an | Practice he went Sing in wis nan

: a . . r maniwer : + ¥ . d
ideal tre trap and generally very unsubstantial. could-uh sing like a birdeuh!" In
rhe gymnasium is wholly inadequate to accommo- | order, to get his diploma he would
date ake many aeeds that it should be abte to serve. | alsy have to practice until he pro-

The iibrary is out of date and entirely too small |ounced wind as tho it were wined.
fot the Davidson student body. Classes would also be conducted for

. . drying up conductors, boring guides
This vear quite a large number of students are] 1, death and saddening preachers

having to live off the camps beeause there isnt to tears so that they will__cach.

"CAT DEBATORS

~ (Continued on Page 3)
negative ai this question was with-
oup the S=4>phrase-——
~Aiter—leaving Morgantown, the
debate team experienced cifticul-
ties in going to Washington and

Lee. They were forced by flood

conditions on: three’ sides to spend |.

the night on top of a mountain, In
the morning — snow covered — the
mountain and it was necessary Sor
them to back-track through part
of West Mirginia in order to con-
tinte on their way. After being
stuck on two mountains and driv-
ing all night, through .a_ blizzard,
they managed to reach Lexington.
Va. in time for Edwards and Sugg
to debate at LO ALM. The remain-
ing lex of the trip was peaceful
except for an acciflent which wreck -
ed the automobile in Lexington. |

Edwards and Sugg stated they
considered, the Trip a success de-
spite the inclement weather and
judges, Whey were impressed by

the hospitality they received at
t

every school. '

CONDUCTS THE

(Continued from Page 1)
Union Theological Seminary. where
he was graduated last spring. «He
has been studying there again ‘this
year Ona special fellowship award-
ed to him at the time of his grad-
uation.

Mr. Overmyer has studied for
three years in Scotland and attend-
ed the Union Theological Seminary,
from which he was graduated sev-
creat years ago.. He served for two
years as an assistant to the Rev.
J. H. Henderlite, pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church in’ Gastonia,
and there he was in charge of the
church's music. For some time, he
has been the co-pastor with the
Rev. Dr. S.-W. Moore, who has
just resigned the pastorate of. the
First Presbyterian Church in Bluc-
field. W. Va. Fle has traveled wide-
ly in Europe and in the Holy Land.
During the past several years Ne Was
had varied experience in the field of
sacred music. Ihe served as song
leader at a meeting in Petersburg,
Val which was led by “Gypsy”
Smith, and last February he was
the song leader at the Sprunt lec-
tures at Union Theological Semin-
ary.

ALPHA EPSILON

(Continued from Page 1)

South Hill Wa. secretary; J. B.
Johnston, Barium Springs; “R. P.

enough dormitory room to take care of them, and [speak in the required manner of
Turshermore, the old barracks have. never been "Good New 4 Miserabl
and will never be in keeping with the other build hy if other. stmgeti on oe oon ery
ings on the camipus, So there is a need for more | frarernities (there is one cnnobling
rooms and a creditable looking struetnre to te- | every subject) is the Les Miserables
place the two frame buildings that are now em-| Club. consisting of those poor fools
ployed to house a part of the student body. whose lot it is 0 forever have their
A social cemer with a large dining hall and removed or who suffer 4 ache Wouele
several recreation rooms would be a most grati- uncomplimentiry nickname. Bob
ivingly weleomed installment in the Davidsor [Vance and Charles Mauze are deans
pliant. Itis needless to reiterate the many unsatis-|0/ the room-moving department,
factory circumstanees that have arisen in connec cotumaist claims all-round member-
tion with the present boarding house system, But eA atten thie paper, We hele a
a large, well equipped central dining room would! the most ignominious monicker in
relieve the trouble io a large extent and be nore (school. Another ornery fraternity

convenient tor the students. is the Rock Till Geotogical Society.
probably led by Jim Cothran,
which—voutd study the rocks in
Kock Ifill much as the geographical
survey that was conducted during
The Pacidsonian irom vear to vee: ties te e- Junior Speaking, The question was
. . - - do sstreet cars tun cast or north
carc the progress ot Davidson trom day to day. |;,, Japan? Only one person knows
.\t the same time it is making an etfort to en-| the answer.
courage a more spirited growth as time goes on.| The Juniors Spoke
Its iniluenee cannot detinitely be determined.| Arether echo of that ‘great set is
Perhaps it bears great weight with its readers. ) "6 mouncement that Colonel ob
: . hson ts to run tor ne Kepub-
on the other hand its contents may be of little con- lican nomination for Presidency on
sequence lo those who peruse its pages front! ine plaform for deflation. We
week to week. Whatever foree it carries it has |déu't know what he deilates. Ask
recorded for twenty vears events and facts of lip Cathey. And ask Bob Lindsay
interest at Davidson, and if the students or anv Cone ca eats. girl oe him,
. . . * ngratulations to Squtrre oun
other group connected with the college icel that on his 4th floor East imonostros.
it is11't exercising the iniluenee that shou'd Prop-jity and sympathy in his convales-
crly go with it, then they could very easily arouse | cence: in the. spring the thoughts
thembelves to make it more poweriut avd conse - of the Young Bros. turn to white
quently more usejul. . shoes Back in the earlier and bet-
mney . . . : . er days o this column we ot
This -brings to mind an Ousetvation that is something on Ab Price about his
easily diseerned aiter some time at Davidson. Too preferring age and Whitman Samp-
many of us are indifferent to evervthing on the |lers to youth and bon-bons (remem-
campus execpt athleties, hose fights. and tire|>er the State game?) but were
cracker shooting. Sermons have been preached | *C*Ted t0 run it. Well for twenty
on the subject, but human nature seems to per-
sist in maldng us care only for the ithings that | but haven't succecded. He is & Sissy
our own seltish interests can see. for_not doing anything scandalous,
Thereiore, as a parting word. insistence is| Grapeshot ; ,
voiced that. more tangible concern be given. not siguifnn “ arolina thers an in
solely 10 The Davidsonian, but to all helpful de- jurther on there is . great stone
partaets on ole campus. face with a chin like Bob Atwater’s.
You bave chosen Jim Morton as editor of the |tlarpy Harlan made his debut in
paper for the centennial year, and it is with re- | Houston as a youth. There is a
luctance that the retiring editor passes on his|‘°W" in Kentucky with a Wilbur
position, but it is at the same time with a feclin Hotel and an Edwards hospital,
n, t S| named Corbin: Joe Hunter is al-
of gratitude for. having been afforded the privilege | ways well-dressed-but needs brush-
and an assured confidence that the new editor can|ing off. A little Dosty . — They
serve even hetter than the one from whom he re- | called him a Non-Commissioned Of-
ceives the responsibility, ficer. because he worked, on a

. : . straight salary. And h
Davidson is. better than most colleges. Keep called Pompeii because ite et
it climbing. ;

let the world model after us and surive to reach
our standards.

something something else ,on. Ab

}ship? There is no doubt that with

ton to the extent that it is now, the

or so issues we have waited to get’

VMorrow, West Point, Ga.j i. tr]

Donigan, Tea Neck, N. J.: J. W.
Knox, Liberty, S. C.; W. G. Brad-
Jey, Whitakers; J. Y. Templeton,
Jr. Mooresville: W. M-. Deverle,
Bluefield, W. Va.;_ B. RR. Yar-
borough, Kannapolis: W. G. White,

enoccovocoocsosocoosoosoooesoecs

THIS
COLLEGIATE
——WORLD—

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

The people in the hot country
of India have 4 considerable weak -
ness jor titles, degrées and ‘other
forms of embellishment, related Dr.
Jobn Scudder in a tecture at Rut-
gers University. ;

To ithustrate, Dr. Scudder told
about receiving a calling card from
a man in Calcutta. This man had
been flunked out of his college. In
the lower corner, after the name,
there was printed, “Failed, Bo AW

Miss Pipher, columnist at Los An-
geles Junior College, is somewhat
discouraged with Prof. Rollin’ F.
Charles of Franklin and Marshall
college for his recent, deflationary
remarks concerning a song which
Miss Phipter rather likes.

This song is “The Music Goes

‘Round and Around.” This is false

propaganda, says Prof. Charles.
While the music may come out
“here,” it simply does not go round
and round inside the horn. There
just ist any music at all until the
sound waves reach the bell of the
horn. Then the air column and the
instrument itself oscillate to produce
the tonal effect,

Miss Pipher is discouraged be-
cause she has been experimenting
with the new conception of the
song. Her efforts have only brought

‘her to, “The air column goes round

and round and. it oscillates here.”
ane,
She doesn't care for it.

Science is wonderful and ingen-
uity is wonderful and pretty soon
all the little problems that vex
you are going 10 be solved..

This week's report of solved prob-
lems conceras the neat device em-
ployed by a young man at North-
western University when he wished
to extract gold from his male par-
ent.

He carefully tollaws market re-
ports in the daily newspaper and
whenever.the stocks his father holds
go up, then he drops a note to the

‘father, expecting to hit him in the

correct mood.

Ad in a Portland, Me., paper:
“Wanted, three attractive young la-
dies -for-three-Bowdoin-men-to take
to house parties. Picture must ac-
company replys

Norfolk, Va.: K. M. Scott, China:
J. H. Ross. Mexico;‘and A. J. Ste-
vens, Schenectady. N.

Y.

(By slssociafed Collegiate Press)

Washington, D, C.—What singles
out The Vatchet, student newspaper
of George Washington University.
for special mention is the location
of the University itself, in the na-
lion's capital? What docs this
newspaper. at the seat of the gov-
ernment, offer the country’s campus
newspapers in the way of leader-

the attention focused om Washing-

reaction of the student paper of an
impoWfint university here to what
legislators do-orsdo not-do-abon
problems of youth, or even the
problems of society as a whole,
would have its reverberations on
college papers throughout the coun-
try.

The concensus of opinion among
the liberals of.the George Washing-
ton -campus is that The MHatchet
doesn't have any reactions of any
importance, The: conservatives think
it~ Fulfills the function of telling
them what's going on and where,
and that that’s as far as campus
journalism should go. Some 7,000
students, of all shades of political
opinion, pay the university a stu-
dent fee that includes a subscrip-
tion'to The Hatchet.

Curiously enoagh, although the
university requires that subscrip-
tion of registrants. and thereby
maintains a large and steady, cir-
culation for The Hatchet, it does not
in turn exercise any sort of overt
control or censorship of the publi-
cation. Neither copy nor proofs have
to go to faculty advisers or deans
for approval before the paper goes
to, press. And each year the new}
editor is chosen among the seniors
on the paper by their own vote.

j

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

last days.
ae ;

a -

Around Washington

By ARNOLD SERWER

FAUL AND CRYMES, INC.
SPORTING GOODS

And yet. in spite of all this free-
dom from censorship, The Hatchet
conducts very few campaigns, rare-
ly waxes indignant over anything,
has no strong editorial policy, and
in geucral seems to yawn along
from year to year, according to
campus liberals. The editor, [klea-
nor Heller, a quiet young law stu-
dent, explains the lack of frietion
between the paper and the univer -
sity administration by saying that
it so happens that she and The
Hatchet see eye to eye with univer-
sity officials on most matters.. Mar-

lier this year Miss Weller had trot-

ble with a number of staff members
who later resigned in a body. She
is of the opinion that they wanted
control of the paper for radical rea-
sons, ad fatling in their objective,
left in protest. Liberal and radical
students declare they wanted to
inject some Jife into The Hatchet
and make it stand for something.
At this writing it seems that no
matter which of three leading con-
tenders for next year’s editorship is
chosen next month, the paper will
continue to pursue a conservative
course. The liferal possibilities ctim-
inated themselves by resigning.
In its present uncensored status.
with its excellent financial stand-
ing and large body of subscribers,
it would casily become a force on
the George Washington campus and
in college journatism everywhere.
Ex-college editors and editorialists
here, who in their day achieved
some measure: of fame as. under-
Graduate Greeleys. think the, uni-
versity paper should represent stu-
dent interests more belligerently,
should encourage debate and inter-
est.in the world outside among its

students, and in general should get
off “dead center.”

oQanaoaoaoaoaoaoaoaoaoaeeeeeeeeee—£*;_:z£z_&_z_«—~—*hies “=e
————————————OSsSmSS eee

41S SOUTH TRYON ST.

a
JIM MORTON WILL EDIT
THE DAVIDSONIAN

—— (Continued from Page 1)

He has served on the staffs of the
magazine and Quips and Cranks.
Heis a member of the Junior Dance
committee, junior baseball man-
ager, and cadet sergeant of Com-
pany A.

Suge, from Greenville, is'a mem-
her of Phi Gamma Delta. social
fraternity: of Sigma Upsilon, ana-
tional honorary literary organiza-
tion; of Alpha Phi Epsilon, foren-
sic group: of the International Re-
lations Chub, Also, he is a member:
of the Forensic Council and varsity
debate manager. He is an assistant
in history. For the past year he has
been known as the author of “Dav-
idson ‘Off the Record.” and “calum-
nist’ PAR EXCELLENCE. He has
also worked on The Yowl and the
anual stalls, —

The selection of the magazine
editors was based on their work
from the time they began as fresh-
men up to the present date. For
the last three issues the sophomore
candidates have been allowed to
serve as managing editors, . and
soffic idea of their ability was gath-
ered from this work. Other sopho-
mores who have served on the stalf
for the last twovyears are Al Cates,

“Sky Cline, Milton Crisp, Fitz
Dade. Larnic Dooley and Jack

Latferty.

MASQUERS GIVE

(Continued from ‘Page 1)
play for the poor and down-trod-
den proletariat, ‘

A fit set-off for the part of Lord
Birten. played by Malone, was Ger-
arat Northrup (Hector McGeachy)
whose sword clanked more con-
vincingly than any one else’s. At
one time several of the audience
close enough to the stage looked
hard to see if the General's teeth
were not involuntarily gnashing.

But the poor King Eric—who
finally reasserted his royal prerog-
ative and proved himself every inch
a king. to the vast discomfiture
we hope, of his wife—was one on
whom the burden of the acting rest-
ed. [twas a difficult part to play—
although for chat matter, all re-
quired long and exhausting work—
and as it was played. no one could
find fault, nor deny that Bob Lind-
say, had a talent for sympathetic
portrayal of put-upon royalty. His
secretary, who had fully as difficult
a part to play, without the neces-
sity for such character changes as
his master _was obliged-to produce,
showed that his finesse was terri-
fic. as some movie critics love to
say,

We have seldom seen so smooth
and suave a villain as was Mr. Me-
{Iwinen, Prince William of Greck.
His’ acting was as smooth as the
elaborate’ stage-setting; and for
such wonderful efforts as Director
Dave Herring and his helpers
achieved in his project, that is say-
ing a great deal. The background
of black drapes with silver fleur-
de-lies was the most impressive
thing Unat has been seen around
the campus for any stage produc-
tion in many years.

Although ail the characters sho
worked so long aad so hard on this
play cannot be mentioned in the
limits of this article. they should wy
derstand thet ihe thanks of all who
saw the performance are given to
them jor their wark,

COLLEGE MUSIC

(Continued from Page 1)

of the tour is a radio broadcast from
Atlanta. Station WSB will present
the Davidson band on Tuesday.
Magch 31, At 1:00 P. M. (Central
Standard lime) er 2:00 o'clock,
Davidson time. The broadcast will
last forty-five minutes.

The itinerary of the trip 'will be
as follows: Monday night. March
23, Gastonia: Tuesday morning.
March 24, Kings Mountain: Tues-
day afternoon, March 24, Gaffney.
S. CG: Tuesday night, March 24,
Greenville, S, C.: Wednesday after-
noon, March 25, Demorest, Ga.:

Wednesday night, March 28,
Agnes Scott, Decatur, Georgia;
Thursday afternoon, March 26.

Martha Berry School. Rome, Ga.:
Thursday night, March 26, Darling- °
ton School, Rome. Ga.: Friday
night, March 27, City High School
Auditorium, Chattanooga, Tenn.;
Saturday night, March 28, Mon-
treat, N.C.; Sunday, March 29.
Montreat;” Monday- afternoon.
March 30, Lenoir; Monday night.
March 30, Morganton; Tuesday
night, March 31, Winston-Salem:
Wednesday morning, April 1, Clem-
mons,

All details of the trip have been
arranged by R. R. Purdy, manager
of the band. Programs have been

Prepared, containing, -besides—_the_
list of numbers to be played, a list

of the band members, information
about the college, and an engraving
of the Chambers Building.

—
Columbia's class of 1935 is 75 per
cent employed. .
