THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1936
i : work ourselves out of the crushingly one-sided , " ; , . .
The Dab tdson tan economy that for fifty vears not only impoverished DAVIDSON PH LANTH H (IP | (5 Town TA T T L BR
_

agriculture but a few years ago began to rot of itself.
OFF THE A The National Red Cross Association
° has awarded the Davidson-Cornelius
: A chapter an Honor Certifleate “for Dis-

Founded by the Class of 1915 ; HLS.
tinguished Achievement. This is in recog-

Hornbeck Reelected to Presidency | jij) of its large enrollment, totaling
of Phi Literary Organization = [ 268 members.

1935 Member 1936

QUARTER SYSTEM ....
Associated Colles tale Press. The student body has scareely settled to work

Collegiate Disest aiter a, in many cases, rather strenuous holiday

season when it is hurtled ito the lowering menace

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” “| of semester examinations. The regular meeting of the Philan-! vies, Luther Henderson, a former res-
7 To one whose Christmas vaeation has been filled thropic Literary Society was held © J ident of Davidson, spent the week-end
Printed by the with enthusiastic accounts of students who took Tuesday night in the Phi Hall, and offi: | a. the guest of Misses Bonnie and John-

cers for the coming term were elected.

President Hornbeck’ reviewed Miss .
Cornelia Shaw's “Davidson College."| tes. C. A. Spotts, who has spent the
emphasizing especially the parts which winter in Florida, visited her daughter,

sie Shelton.

QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY | their E1itST QUARTER examinations before said

Charlotte, North Carolina holidays and “will not have another esam unail just
before the spring recess” sach a sitwation scems

SUBSCRIPTION RATES. .. donbly unpleasant. e = ne ive the origin. history. and ouher facts| Mes W. N. Mebane, this past week
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year. There scemis to be little iustitication for the contin- : a out the hilant roy ic ociet y. ; Mrs, Spotts left for her home in Dublin,
. . Following this review the officers were Virginia; Monday, January 13.
Entered as accond-ciass matter at the Post Office at Davidson, | tation of the semester system ander our present aca- Cf H ‘AROLD SUGG elected as follows: George Hlornbeck
North Carolina, wnder the act of March &rd, 1879.

dente set-wp. & is a recoguized fact in educational
ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION cireles that no matter how thoroughly a subject is
must be in the handa of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m., learned, the learner tends to torget tts content at a
sone aiended for publication. must eecigome, Dut all communics: | very detinice rate of speed, especially where there
= ate not a sutiieient number of reviews. The current
LAMONT BROWN... . . . . . « « Editor review system provides for review of marerial im six -
R. P. MORROW, Jr. . . . . . Business Manager weeks periods only.
Therefore the interpolation of two wecks of free-
EDITORIAL STAFF com from scholastic diszipline. from any praciice in

was reelected president; T. 1D. Mullis} ates, Scott Lyon was hostess to the
was made vice-president: and Henry {phetemite Cluh Friday afternoon, Janu-
Harkey was reelected secretary. Thefary 10, Mrs. John Rhett was in charge
treasurer, who holds office for the whole
year, is Dick Lindsey. Gordon Smith and
red Furness were elected first and sec- “Miss Bessie Wells, of Tallahassee,
ond critics, respectively. The president] ry is a guest of her sister, Mrs. J. V.-
appointed judiciary and program com- Lore.

mittees, 11 was voted that no more meet- a

ings would he held until the tirst Tues-| pe Booklovers’ Club held its regular

POT SHOTS
BEFORE BARRAGE

The best thing in fife is not the thrills,
the emotional eruptions, the hurly burly
periods of activity, but the succession of
more ordinary pleasant experiences that
builds, up one’s general feeling of wetl-
heing: a well-spiced dinner conversation,
speaking and being spoken to, and being

of the program,

ne

ed : day after examinations, on January 28. ine Frid ft n, January 10, at
. or , - . . : ‘ ©) meeting Iriday alternoon, Ji y 1¥,
[owen Oventon yee ia he studies involved, a short while beSore comprehen engrossed in bull sessions that in dater] President Hornbeck announced that in| ine home of Mrs. G. R. Vowles. Mrs.
Haronn Sica oo. wees .-Managita sive exainination covering cightecn wecks is disrupt- years _bec&me—postoffice and drugstore] the near future it is planned that a de+ ‘raver Hood gave a paper on “The
Daymonp TURNER .. .---- -- Managing ing. {n courses where work does not involye repett- | political déates; dressing for an event.| bate should be held, discussing the ques- Cavalier Poets.”"
Jous ess weer end Mavjaging tion of material tirst studied the interruption may [and enjoying that vanish-thou-burden | tion of whether or not the faculty should

feeling born of Saturday afternoons. ‘Ihe
bigvest things in life are the littlest. We
would like for some penster who can

Nave absolute censorship over student Mrs. C. H. Elamilton is visiting in
publications. Spartanburg._S._C.,_with her daughter,

Martin Barnett prove serious, even fatal.

PAREN (CLASS ———--——-~ “facile ae We believe this (o be, in a large part. responsible

L

‘ ; . . * a 7 ‘ Mrs. Elford Morgan.
Tow Maxcitast weeeelecee enn e ee ~oafssoctate: editor for the high rate of ireshman moriality. First year lout forth a enagnetic finger and draw Pfohl to Or. to Organ aniz e-
_ ee eee _. men, tnost of whom have had seant experienee with | out a: variegated, Studeiit Body mutual g ‘The Davidson Music Club held its an-
xaminations, are unable to make the required’read- [emotions to interpret ‘thar—icctt : i ‘ne ‘Tuescay, i a
BUSINESS STAFF _ examin trons a q . Se i s with finding econ an oon nual social meeting ‘Tuesday, in the Civic
c M ’Cireulation M iustment quiekly enough, or have not learned what | ict saustaction that The with linding League tall. The hostesses were the
ARLES MAUZE - ----Cirewation Manager : - . . oe mail in the mailbox. Tho subdued and . -
; i $ ‘ f this type. A majority 4 officers of the club and the program com
Bitt Swore -.. --ne2Cirenlation Manager sto be expected eens of th h JOruY | subtle, % spreads, warms and satisfies] A second hand will be organized next | mittee.
Boa Vance -..-- eee ee Circulation Manager | of upperclassmen have to resort to the pernicious until the time for the nest train, whence | semester for the benclit of the regular

Hoke Ropinson .-_- -

olde ertising Manager habit of “cramming”: than which, educational psy- | avain comes the itching. Disturbing this college band, Prof. J. C. Pfohl, director) prof, and Mrs. J. C. Pfohl spent the

Brut Huu. cocesecnm acess sare Collection vanager chologists will agrec, there is no quicker way of fore [calm order of things are examinations. }of music, announced that this had been week-end with relatives in Salisbury.
BILL DEYERLE ..----~---~-----/ ‘Issistant Business Manager ecuting And the Lethe runs into the Acheron, | done because of the demand among many | During the past week, Prof, Pfohl at-
—_— ————— S . $ ’ .
Besides this ¢ ; arati . students for an unganization of this sort. d the Nationat ‘Bandmasters’ Con-
——WEDNESDAY. JANUARY 15, 1936 Besides this factor Of Preparation, the quarter NATURE TRIUMPHANT This band will be wd? the direction of tended nn Champaign I!
. . 1 system otters a distinct a vantage " P matter 0! An intruder has invaded the sanctity | A. Mortland Cunningham,
Let another man praise thee, and not thine own Yetardation. Many students éail from iliness. worry, | oii. library. Boldly it has broken the | Students who take this band work will | py, WW. L, Lingle was the chief speaker
moult; a stranger and not thine own (tps. or lack of general ability causes beyond their’ con- | traditional serenity of that institution, | stay in the second band until they are| at a Masonic luncheon in Charlotte, Fri-
—Prov. 27:25 trol. Re division of the school year would obviate - |-with-undercover. and even nightly per- | deemed capable to play in the Symphonic day. Jan. 10.
the necessity of such men ialling a whole half-vear |sistence. If uychecked, the influence of | Band, when they will be promoted.
EUREKA ... behind in their scholastic work. The smaller units | tis newcomer will have the whole sys- ._e. wr Miss Louise Thompson has returned

tem in disorder. Spurned by locked daors
and early hours, refusing to take a
properly Presbytcrian No for an answer,
the visitor has chosen a. method Machia-
vellian and has broken al! resistance.
‘The powertul drive of nature fas at
last invaded the pedagogic staidness aid
cloistered reserve of the horary. The
ivy vine can be fuund) peering thru a
crack in the wall of Room Six.

Humaany ts always said to be at a cross toads: ( would make a thorough mastery of subiect matier
we are, to believe the cconomic dilettante, always { easier. Also it would help the curriculum to mect
upon the threshold of a new order, In 17s and in { more readily the problems of individual dierences
1920 the world supposedly faced an international in interests and ability.
brotherhood in demoeracy, and in 1953 the decline Surely the giving of one more exumination a veav.
of all civilization Wis depicted if the London lico: | would not place too great a strain on those concerned.
nomic Conierenee ‘Juted. Owe could accually see. { We should be glad to hear opinion of members of
(with the aid of Melsray Syndicates and Simond- [ the ‘iacuhy and student body on this plan which has
ized feature stories) the sheer precipitous walls oi been so widely followed throughout the country.

Eu Society Hears to Union Grove to resume her duties as

English teather in the high school.

Three Addresses Coach and Mrs. Kugene Mcliver have

. ——_—_— . returned to Davidson after spending the
The J:umenean bnerary Society held holidays with relatives in Knoxville,

its first meeting 9 yee on, ‘Tuesday, Tenn, -

January 7, in the ghia Center, A speech _—

was, made by Ralph McClelland on “I'he ;

Orphan .News Reel.” Jack Branch de-|craftily smiles Tlal. OK BY US: Kea

livered a talk entitled “This Right-| Scott and his rendition of ““ria on a

Handed World!" Pancroft Mosely was} Submiticd Theme. THE YOWL,: is

called on for an impromptu speech, and | resurrected since our last squirt. THAT ©

he gave one about “Eastern North Caro-| IMMENSE GUST of wind we felt over

lina during the Holidays.’ the week-end was not a cyclone. It was
The final mecting of the semester was the Pan-Hellenic Council heaving a sigh

held last night. Several Freshmen read] of relief as they signed Freddy Martin's

papers preliminary to gaining member-| contract. THE IOTA PIU clubs is

ship in the organization. The entire so-} sweeping the campus. All members are

ceily is looking forward with keen an-| either fiars or unfortunate.

ticipation to a joint meeting with the

literary. society of Queens College to be ISH KA BIBBLE

held cither in Davidson or Charlotte. To lose your gal is ote thing. To

have her get. married is another. But to™*

Sigma Upsilon Meeting receive a sudden announcement of the

tie-up with the gy to whom you intro-
Sees Joe Dees’ Drama duced her is stark tragedy, says Jailbird
es Higgins, Will someone give Henry

Sigma Upsilon, national honorary fra- | Mills a banjo to put on his knee when
ternity for the encouragement of writ-|he goes to Alabammy?_ Who_is that
ing, held the tirst meeting of 1936° the | cheerful boy we see around here? Oh

sence 7

‘CAMPUS PLUTOCRAT NO. TEN

Virst of the Centennials (praised he
the name) to break into the realm of
plutocracy is this gentleman whose nose
you are now dodging. None other than
Lawrence “Schnozz" Hill, newly elected

“SCHNOZZ” Varsity Manager of
football, whd, with
Ed Armfield and Dick
Johnson. are charter
members of 1937
BMOC, For Law-
rence, it was mercly
a promotion from that
honorable institution
of which calumnist is

“Promoted” = 2 part. the B.N.O.C..
protruding proboscis being prerequisite:
-Lawreiice is a man of many friends and
many ‘nicknames, potential rush talk for

national barviers, the decadent industries, the reduced DO WE WANT THE QUARTER SYSTEM AT
standards and ceonomie misery if the london Feo- DAVIDSON? —D.T 4
nomie Conterence (with the London tabloid head-
line: “Motley, Aleiay, Moley, ord God All Mighty’)
did not iead us to the land oi cooperation. Yer
looking backward now, one has to seareh to find
even the date ‘of said conierence.

Thus we are always being taken in by the rahble-
rouser, the publicist or by ourselves. [laving fully
reeognized the irony of taldng it toa seriously we
may be able to diseuss the etlects of the ANA decis-
ion at least with the knowledge of the consequences
involved. And tho we. too. may point to a cross-
roads and take both ourselves and tlie decision too | IDEAL... - ne
sericusly, we have at least admitted the possibility The absent minded proiessor we wouid like to
ei-it. We have not blindly rushed in and foolishly mect is the fellow who would lectaire to his steak and
predieted the end of the world without first admit. | cut his classes. —I". 1/. f.Cadem

STOLEN THUNDER

THE WHITE FEATHER .. .
Co-eds on the Syracuse University campas take mo
+ chances when they haven't a dae, they wear the
school coiors in ribbons in their hain. The ribbons
signify they haven't a date and aren‘t too partieiar
with whom they get one —just so they get one!

. ae +e ig ix that’s “Laughi Lotti
ting that the danger is probable. QUESTION ? Pi Kappa Alpha and news for the ment ot January the sixth, lent of u Wilkevion and "Karl Fisher. like the
‘ ; . N.. ? . . bet. Etttece wp: . arlton Chapman, president of the! ¥ a arl Ws
P t hg . tates é ‘ . ’ - : .
The plight of the farmer has passed the stage of What animai is « that is vellow. green: pink, and | Statesville Daily Effort. “Ring Out Wild local chapter, presided. An original one} home town talent. But “Leaping Leroy”

Bells!" Sound Effects: “Ding, Dong!”
“a

WEATHER REPORT—Monday, Jan.
27, Bright. Wednesday: Rain. Fur-
nished by Off the Record special ser-
vice. Goo-Goo says: “You have to
drill weather you want to or not.”

parlar assertions that the farmer ought to be helped { white. has seventeen pairs of legs. walks on its knees
Republican promises that the farmer will be helped | and wears overshoes when it rains >

and economists platitudes that our prosperity is de- We thought up the question: you think up an an-
pendent upon the iarmer, They have assumed a new swer!—The Rotunda.

vigor. They have aeqitired greater strength because ‘2d DEGREE’... .

agriculturalists have found that something could And when Harvard University considered giving

happen, and having felt that Prospe nity they . will be President Andrew [ackson an honorary degree. T:x-
less willing to lose it, And a iall in prices will bring President John Q. Adams asked the university to take

a vigorous protest which leit unheeded will be por- | Lack ine degree that they had just given him. —Daily
tent oi.serious consequences. The AAA destroved, Tar Fleel ,

the passivity of the agrieuhuralists and to some ex-

tent organized them. [ake the peasant of the French | RAILROAD ...

Revolution who had only just enough to show him Also from Carolina comes the following tale con-
* what he did not have, the iarmer now knows it possi- cerning the “frail train that ran fram Richmond to

ble to prosper and will press his demands vigorously. | Noriolk."

One of two things must happen. Exctier the price {> The train drew up at litte two-byv-four station
system must be readjusted so tha: agriculture can | along the way. “This is Wimberly.” said one of the
compete in a ime market or some strong agency {| Men.

act play was presented by Joe Dees. The Blackwelder takes to Charlotte. And Six
play was based on a realistic picture of | Johnston makes the Poplar Apartments
the gangster life in New York City. popular, And somebody asked us who
Alton Cates read a paper on one of | ¥as—this—Winter Wonderland Crowell
the problem plays of the famous Nor-|that sleighs all the women. And whom
wegian dramatist, Thsen'’s “Ghost.” did impetuous Grimes date Saturday ?
~ SUMMARIES: John Brown is in love
with Miss Petty. Joe Johnston is called
Brogpuss. New racing game of Chas.
Thompson and Tricky Dave. Henry
WEAL AND WOE Harkey hoasted a ten-inch, three-hour
cigar last week. Tobie Conyers is a vil-
o This Davidsonian will+be one of the lain and Joe Kellum a trackman. Al
few in three years to lack the crafts-| Cade is the Eddy Duchin, or Hl Duce,
manship of Hal Overton who got sick] of third floor Georgia, And having gone
before the_exams_ instead of on account) down and round, we come out here.
of them. “I have the doctors bafiled,”| Take it away Brown!

a Ow

would like to declare war _on “Music

WAR goes Round and Round, ete.’

This Warner Bros.-Gene Buck con-
troversy which has cancelled from 18-
40% in broadcasting variety is begin-
ning to get almost as much on our. nerves
as Governor Hoffman. Warner Bros.
owns 5 major publishing houses_and |
failed to renew general radio contracts
this year. The A.S.C.A.P. (association
of_song writers), headed by Gene Buck,
contends that Warner Brothers has been
acting selfishly and contrary to the in-

Commencement Invitations Visiting Carde

(like the AAA) must support the farmer in an oii “No, itis Thursday,” said another. _ terests of the music profession in seck- Fraternity Publications : Personal and Fraternity Stationery
erwise one-sided system. Either of the two alterna- “Tam too, let's get a drink,” said a third as they |ing individual contracts. Many stations

(WGN and WLW early in the battle)
Hhave signed individual contracts with
Warner Brothers ... And a local trade
| war started here Monday on exam pads.
The 5&10 fired the first shot which was
heard at Icast a block, for a drugstore

tives wiii require a constitutional amendment giv- | filed otf tke wooden day coach.

ing the Federal Government powers to accomplish SPICE OF LIFE .

such. Thru tariffs, industrial favoritism and publie Financial straits and/or faculty censorship have
apathy to enforcement of anti-trust taws we dave | bested the humorous publieations of sixteen Virginia |
worked ourselves into a one-sided situation, and we | colleges awd universities, The Randolph-Macon

Fine ve

QUEEN CcITy.

fired back. The other drugstore then en- encom ne Se
must proceed to work ourselves out thru a strong | Old Aldid is the sole survivor to date. - ~—f: tered the fray and at one time exam |” =p R I N T I N G - Cc oO. a.
controlling Federal Government. And the college To meet this situation, the Virginia Intercollegiate [pads were selling 5 for 2dc. Then

rushed in frantic plutocrats of the Stu-
dent Store, whereupon the village shop-
keepers folléwed the lead of the Board-
ing Houses and formed a combination in
restraint of trade. Net Results: Exam
Pads, 3 for 25c. Speaking of wars, we

. ..... 843 E, FOURTH ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Representatives
Lamont Brown R. P. Morrow

graduate of only a few years hence will step not.| Press Association produced Koolscap, presumably
into the America of free (sic!) competition but into | ‘issued by the student bodies of all colleges so left
one in which the Federal Government plays a bigger. | humor-less. A limited first edition has just made its
part. : appearance on Virginia campuses, after many de-
Regiettable to be sure; but it is the only way to lays occasioned by “lack of contributions”.

.

5 ; as |
