4 THE 4[AN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1936 .

SEE THE cars SPOR AFIELD WATCH THE CATS
FACE WOLFPACK, SATURDAY _ || WILDCATS SHOW

SS MUCH STRENGTH

=e : ooo AGAINST DEVILS

Jim Johnston Heads Stubborn ’Cat Defense, Lafferty Shines
In Offensive Role as Davidson Loses To
Blue Devils, 13 to 0

HACKNEY, PARKER LEAD WADEMEN TO VICTORY
Smith, Duke Back, Plunges and Kicks For. All Duke Points

Making their debut into the Southern Conference the

Amidst the edt
; Wildcats threwa scare into the Duke camp and held.Wallace
nus i d, ° .
Wade's highly-touted Blue Devils to a 13-0 score in Memorial
( \ é ,
: ; Stadium at Greensboro Saturday night
1 1 Duke, picked by many pre-season ee
the Da Wildeat Soest ae ise up on their hi re an
i prognosticators as a possible choice its re up on their nd lege and
193 ) wa ts the 6 checked the onslaught of the Devil
i ean ) Blu€~ Devil for the Rose Bowl, managed to ; hird Dul tied
lighly-touted Duk alt evils ; the i tanz uke cashe
PI rt Vit not just to hold push over a score in both thé first n ! thire A inza (4 i e(
aying t 1 and j to hold ; Z i . in on Latferty’s only fumble of the
ulwetie Gate ai ’ f and third periods by taking advan-
uke, the Cats played es on game to score their second touch
Bellen tha: et ie tage of two momentary lapses by

down, © Standing .on his own 20

full? period : their opponents. During the rest of “y Wilde E
pepe ass Pictured at the top is the team that started the game against yard line the slippery Wildeat back

1 i
; ; n the game the snarling, fighting pack ;

This game, ca acid test Duke and almost fought the ‘heavier Blue Devils to a standstill. c Wildcats st iil i ; is pee let Hackney’s long kiek slip through
proved what. the had pre Lower right is Teeny Lafferty, triple-threat halfback. Teeny car- es Pats Asya CU ete his fingers and it was recovered for
dicted—that this is the best team ried the ball for Davidson well over half the time. He kept the Duke power plays and once failed

Duke by Liana From this point

Blue Devils worried throughout the game with his off-tackle smashes
and brilliant open-field running. Playing safety man, twice he
stopped plays that would otherwise have gone for touchdowns.

wed a

to score themselves by only a secant
foot

Davidson has had since the present the inimitable Smith, aided by Hud

taff of coaches took ver thie gins and Hackney carried the oval

Those who were looking for Dav

coaching reir The

pyre To wre FE GO SEND

Ends Perform Well

Ce a BEGINS AS CATS, DUKE
oo STATE GRIOMEN nes ar pea

; across the double stripe and piace
idson to open up with a razzle- kicked the extra paint, making the
count 13-0

In the fourth Williains recovered
a Duke fumble on the Blue Devils’

dazzle attack were disappointed as

only straight football was ‘on the
menu, However, the stands were
thrilled time and again as Teen

; : nine-yard line. Lafferty’s pass to
Latierty, spearhead of the Cat. of- Williams

fense, ripped off big chunks — of

was grounded. Lafferty
squirmed through Duke's right

hers, and, though they couldn't fect yardage through the Duke line, The tackle for two, Armfield made five

lit ht because of this, heavier Dukes rgekoned to Batter around right end, placing the ball

perfor 1 in grand style. Ty ‘ Bios down the Cat defense with their on the one-yard line. On the last

ind Cathey iw some service Blue Devils, Wolfpack Fav- power line: smashes, detailing three down Latferty went wide around

and kept up the good ‘work orites in Conference and men to bleak out’ Dick Johnson, Duke's left end, but was stopped
Graham and Hunter started Close Game Expected When Big Five Davidson's All-State guard, but they | 4), Parker six inches short of the
the game at tackles and were Evenly Matched Rivals Clash ; a reckoned without the diminutive gt il line. Standing behind his own
stalwarts on the defense. Joe In Raleigh Football in’ the : Big Five Con- but mighty Jim Johnston, who {OP- | goal line in kick formation, Hack

was one of the main cogs, back- ped fully one-third of -the Duke ev toeseil
plays aimed at the center of the

line,

STATE: HAS HEAVY "TEAM ere ( off to-an_early start

lay as Davidson, Duke

a pass to Parker for a

ing up the line on defense as
well as leading the offense.
Warden lived up to advance

25-yard gain, starting a mareh that

: Pai : C. State teams. went into Was stopped only when another
No Major Injuries Sustained Elmore “Honey” Hackney, flashy pass to Parker bounced off the fin
In Duke Game

notices in his play in the clos- The Blue Devils are favorites for Blue Devil back, paved the way for] poe lips of the Duke captain into
ing stages of the game. Bill Having made their bow to South the Big Five title this year, with the Wademen’s first score with Wisyith hands of? Lafferty wha wa
Johnston replaced Joe Hunter. | ery Conferencs football last: Satur ite a strong threat for both that brilliant do-yard run. He took Laff downed on his nine-yard stripe
at the end of the first quarter | day against Duke. ¢ oach Doc New- | gy r ind the conference title erty’s punt on his own 45 and twist- The Cats lost another golden op
and held his own during his tor chargés are pointing to their | ¢ 1d, er a new coach, Ray- ed his way to the Cat nine before portunity to score when Joe Hun
short stay in the game. next encounter with N.C, State. The} mond Wolf, and with a new. Tar- Teeny tackled him. Smith dived} ter blocked Parker's kick and the
Johnston Stars Wildcats looked impressive Hespite eel aise a strong contender over the line for two yards. Hud- (Continued on Page 6)
The real star of the game waS| the 13-0 defeat suffered at the hands for second and perhaps first place. gins got four on a reverse play be-
Jim (Legs) Johnston, 185 pound] of Nbuenmanchanl callin ceo: AWiiiley Da videOHmancieWineuienner fore Armfield stopped him. Then

guard. While Captain Dick John-] \Wademen and it appears that Ra-
son was battling the three men as-] leigh will be the scene of a close
signed to

REMEMBFR.... You
Always Save at Belk
Brothers!

Smith plowed over for the touch-
down.

will have an even fight for fourth

or maybe third position
The Duke Blue Devils felt the

1 ¢ ys Pe
a standstill, Jim] battle’ Saturday night. The ’Cats

At the beginning of the second
Was knifing, hurdling, dipping his| seemed perfectly at ease under the

WHITTLE GALLS FOR

Wildcat lineata wacae time eee period Wade sent in his great run- MEN’S
way int the Duke backfield. Mights in’ Greensboro and their ex llardetaneiiee 1660 eh j ve ning back, Ace Parker, who teamed
nm : ; ‘ vard-f h ‘ ctory ove peaaila
When « ng Tom Corbin say] perience with Duke may serve to Wao seaeuentalt e ¢ up with Tipton and Johnny John- °
“4 ° 1 - Se ‘ ' i ‘ . ime ¢ - heads
he ay mea on Ad ee OtfStt State idvantage of nighit flay : Ee oc ston to march down to Davidson's oot Fas 10n
Feht rt ee pelt i tl ; eee N 1° Mcti large -erowd of 15,000, Lafferty wa ten-yard line However here the
igh here were five t n le oache Newton ane Mekver 1 1 reer eer ( )
? : ; the Wildcat star, while Pa ro and ° xX
De vil backtield all night, ies have quickly ironed out the slight Hackney led the Devils in action. | Footballers to Play Five-Game RUNNERS 10 REPORT the lack of an athletic director, or s
hr va ni sto y ragvednes t vidson’s offensi ; Fine 5
AT ad va ras ies n \ ; raggedn in. Davidson tensive A rather slow Wolfpa ; Schedule which prohibited Pete Whittle from By
wood ind ock ass proved] formation and are now busy polish - ‘ 5 poner canes DSTI aa ae eu at
their true worth in reserve roles and] ing the ‘Cats defense. Apparently A ae rf Mes ; HTS ny copay ne nie Wild eRIEAHA ta Team to Be Formed For Fall one a ae Pvenrionn FRIEDMAN-SHELBY
| much service before the} the same line up that faced Duke Berlina tinea tin ek] tered by Coach Flake Laird will p us Ce) Geral Ges. elas ARM) Bing
a BOM Eola Will see action chao the Wolf tl Wolfpack, led hi lower open their 1936 football season on A varsity cross-country team for| Parcell, Frank Brown, F. L. Fort,
pack with a pi ssible change at cen mrad to victory, maki: both | October Ist, with Presbyterian Jun inter collegiate competition has R. M. Wilson, Bill Telford, R. J
ter. Heman Clark who Pak day, ichdow1 one- on a national | ior College. This game will’ bel been org inized here under the lead- | Terry, J. IW. Wilson, Sprunt, Frank
foot injury betore the Duke game iesaedeeng played here at Davidson on Rich-} oycyjy oj Pete Whittle. Poe, L. M. Hipp and R. R. King
Stig to action in the pivot i euivemmeecatc ton (i urdson. Field. | 7 {svar ineets liave been | Any others who wish to go out for
Meanwhile at State Coach Hunk | 2&8 Saturday when the Du | During the practice sessions of | * us | Hed, one w ith Duke on Oc ue te am Nall ple ue Ree Eel
Ander i mi the Wolfpack Colgate game is a featur \ he past week Coach Laird has been] tober 17, ar me with Carolina, the | Whittle for uniforms at their ear-
ae on Ss primimyg ie U “ . 1 . 2
for their first Big Five and South- | oth Blue Devil Homeconting. 1 trying to find his best material, C,] date tor lich has not yet been} lest convenience
for t first Big Five and So ; i i
a e of the season] Red Raiders play a dazzling, tricky|G. Yates, one of the apirants for tile 1On \ third meet will —
Satna : zame with plenty of aerial play. The]: ‘i VE All-State Center atJ Probably be arranged for with eith
Pack defeated. Elon} 8&°™ ue ; team,“ Was “AUsote % eee
opening encounter, it] Blue Devils will play their sa oro last year. Those whof¢r the University of Virginia, Wash WELCOME FRESHMEN
ay fe follower are low but sure, type of football k good-at the guards are: G. M.] 'ngton and Lee, or V. M. 1. On No O50
ite followers : ao ) : IE
rrying abouty The game Saturday is the i-| Kice and J. M. Pennington. Material] Yember 21 the Southern Conference a
ypen' Saturday. State |son’s first tilt for both Wake For t end iynot so abundant, but I Lapere Faun) yo meet will be held at Tene Supply Your
nus the services of }est and Carolina They are more PHornbe rer is doing well. Some of fChapel Hill in whieh Davidson will (Above) An oxford that's éx-
Carroll Conrad, end, and E V.[evenly matched than it might ; p-|those contending for the tackle} Participate. Davidson had no Cross Needs ceptionally dressy and one
; thertl Rt Seber. ‘ s | country 1 las eat Ranier .
Helms, first string tackle, when the | pear, as Wake Forest has improved, eh ire Miller, A. L. James, = ae ist year because of eee that gor wonderfully well
Whistle blows, but Carl Goode, a 238] While. North Carolina has mostly | Glenn, TWo McLeans ‘and Me Mat ae on = ‘ ISB with — the ext fallrentirer
: 1 P , avers ¢ sare Ty: Geachy. H. J. Bol, Hunter, Me ! widson; and a night game ‘ ;
pounder, will adequately fill the |mew players and is starting unde; ni, ae : raed Smooth quality calf leather.
gap. Should both colleges use their} @ new coach, with soplHomores as} Clintock, and W. B. May are back : t ae Hi ol arat one S O (Of Ie HER N Gomes inebrowacorebinaen6
; : Pres , ; @ldemataci sovember Oth, Columbia; anc cial
original line-ups. the Cats will spot | their main source of power, id material ’ to 11; AA to D
eh : ut : yee P Thi Mie Blieelbevit tf F 1 ; aT Vers, ke ae Kidge School for Boys, Dav- 5 & 10c Store o
the ’Pack 13 pounds to the man. us years Blue Devil outtit 1s Ne Trosh will play five games

Some who predicted that David-| experienced and it has a fast back-] this season, they ar Presbyterian]
JF. JOHNSTON: field it Jun —___——

son’s punting department would and a powerful line i College—October ‘Ist, Dav
Center, written about as a gap lose some games this year are re-| picked as the winner of both Big ny Wotford Freshmen—October
by all sports writers, was filled | minded to look back over the Duke (Continued on Page 6) 9th

Fitted

irtanburg;, Duke—October
in grand style by the depend- game. If Teeny Lafferty kicks as
able Frank Purdy. Despite his well against Bardes a he. did
lack of weight, Frank playing against “Ace” Parker and Elmore .
the opposite backer-up position Hackney they need not worry D d a
from Hunter was a thorn in the The kick-off is scheduled for 8 e avi SON eatre e 4 d {i d
side of Ace Parker and Co. all P. M., Saturday, 26th, at Riddick cau oun
(Continued on Page 6) Field in Raleigh

epesennsennnsnnenernnn seesesnsennevnserervasesnonnsnesonsseerrnnenronnmagy | | \VELNESDAY, SEPT. 23 ) 7”
#4){| “MY AMERICAN WIFE” e

With Francis Lederer, Ann Southern, Billie Burke, Fred Stone

e wee

Visit THURSDAY, SEPT. 24
“WIVES NEVER KNOW”

e A fast-moving comedy—a throw-back on rarried life
] te r ug O. FRIDAY, SEPT. 25
\

“MARY OF SCOTLAND”
Starring Katherine Hepburn and Frederick March

(Above) Men who prefer a
cap toe.model will be proud to

this new Foot-Fashion
oxford! It’s comfortable and

—=NOr——
SATURDAY, SEPT. 26 ‘
PROMPT._AND EFFICIENT SERVICE “MURDER WITH PICTURES” ~ ;
: : A thrilling mystery drama with a whirlwind finish
MONDAY & TUESDAY, SEPT. 28-29

“WALKING ON AIR”

With Gene Raymond, Ann Southern, Jessie Ralph and
Henry Stephenson—in a charming picture

good-looking! Blucher style.
Rigid arch support. 6 to 12.

Magazines—Fountain Pens—Toilet Articles AtoD. -

Street Floor — Shoe Dept.

BELK’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DAVIDSON’S OLDEST AND BEST

P. H. HANES KNITTING CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
