The Babidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1935 Member - 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Disteibutor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

sat

_ SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

~ . .
Entered as sécond-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, sunder the act of March 3rd, 1979.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

. . .
must: be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock
. om. Manday, Letters ta the Editor are welcome, bue-all
communications intended for publication must be signed.

>

JIM MORTON . _.Editor
R.'P. MORROW, JR. _....-.-.--. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Owen Cook -.
Sam CovtiRan —
Tuciip . FANT
Ilecror McGeacits
Dick Vow Ltrs
YATES FAISON -..-
Harry KUYKENDALL
Howe. Overton
Harotp Suac..-.-
Daymonn Turner

- Managing Editor
--- Managing Fditor
Managing Editor

A anaging Editor
_Managing Editor
Sports Editor
‘ssociate Editor
associate Editor
-Issociate Editor
.--vlssociate Editor

Jonn WINN __..- _. lssociate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

Citartes Mauze.__.------ Circulation Manager

Bow VANCE-,-.---------- Circulation Manager

Hoke Rosinson Advertising Alanager

Birt Hitte-2 eee eeee Collection Manager

Bint Dyerve_.---- elssistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1936

A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in
pictures of silver. Prov. 25:11.

Paragraphics....

We extend our sincere sympathy to Dr, David
Howard and Coach Pete Whittle in their present
itiness and wish for them a speedy recovery.

* * *€ *

It is with regret that we learned of Grier Mar-
tin’s decision to leave his Davidson post as alumni
secretary. We feel that it will be a long time
before the faculty can find a man of equal capa-
bilities.

* ok &k &

The Davidson College Band, during its 1,000
mile tour of the South, was received by appreci-
ative audiences at every engagement. Such
hearty receptions brings to light the excellent
merits of this organization.

*

* x

Our college museum, after complete destruc-
.tion caused by the burning of Old Chambers, is
yearly increasing in the number of objects for
display. Much enthusiasm has been shown by
members of the faculty and student body in this
project and every student should avail himself
of opportunities to visit it and contribute toward
its improvement.

* oe

“The little, nameless, unremembered acts of
kindness and love are the best portion of a good
man’s life,” is a truthful adage, and one way of
expressing it is by writing at least one letter
home each week. It doesn't take much time;
your parents appreciate it; and you. owe it to
them.

Spring Services....

The Y. M.C. A. is particularly fortunate in se-
curing so able a spcaker as Carl Pritchett for
our annual Spring Services, Pritchett left an en-
viable record behind him at Davidson, and he is
still well remembered on the campus.

lt is fitting that these services should come
during Passion Weck, so rich in its associations
with the last sufferings and final triumph of our
Lord. We could find no better time in all the
year for a personal heart-searching, a considera-
tion of the richer, fuller meanings of Christianity,
Those who heard the speaker yesterday could not
fail to gain an inspiration from his words.

Only three more services remain. Let us all
turn out and make them successful. Let us make
this a true revival of heart as well-as of spirit.
Then we may return to our daily routine refreshed
to carry on the traditions and ideals of a Christian
College.

‘Another War....

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1936

Chapters of, “the Veterans of Future Wars”
have been established in 19 different colleges and
universities Sinee the movement's birth at Prince-
ton.
manutactuted to show the absurdity of the Vet-
erans ot Foreign Wars, who recently inaugurated
a move to have bonuses paid nine years ahead of
time and were successful.

Patterned aiter the original VF W, bonuses are
to be paid in advance. A manifesto published by
leaders of the Princcton group, states that “be-
cause it 1$ customary to pay bonuses before they
are due, the veterans of future wars demand im-
mediate payment of $1,000 plus 3 per cent com-
pound interest annually from June 1 1956 back-
ward to Jure 1, 1936." It would be a tine thing
for these veterans of future wars to receive some
remuneration before tre killing. 4

Vassar gitls collaborated with the Princeton
undergraduates in this movement by establishing
socieies of “Gold Star Mothers of the Future."
Their aim is Lo see now the spots where their sons
willbe buried. The girls at the University of Chi-
cago are already choosing their society enablem.
It is to he a blue cagle perched on.a crossed ham-
met and sickle and holding in ics beak a swastike
and under its wings a fasees. One member of
the VFA, there is to be chosen Unknown Sol-
dier of Future Wars.

James F. Van, Zandt, national commander of
Veterans of Foreign Wars, upon hearing of the
collegian otganization, angrily blurbs: “The stu-
dents are too vellow to go to war, therefore they'll
never be veterans of a future war,” states one
college paper. it would be extremely absurd and
impractical to ever’ think students of woday would
not tight if our country were attacked or an in-
vasion evident. College students seem to com-
prehend the fauiity and destructiveness of war
better than those who have alread received their
“baptusing of tice.”

High Cost of Frats....

Recently we have heard complaints from par-
ents and the administration concerning the high
cost of traternity lite at Davidson. We are con-
vineed that no other college in the country offers
the advantages of affiliation with a national fra-
ternity at less cost to its students.

However, there is one major item of fraternity
expense which we fecl could be materially Jess-
ened. We refer to the obnoxious RENT which
consumes from one-fourth to one-half of every
chapter budget. That any organization should be
obliged to pay approximately forty-cight dollars
a month for a two room cottage seems, on the
face of it, unreasonable. *

Of course, light, water and heat are included
in the above charges, no rent is paid for the
summer months. And then, too, rental is figured
as a reasonable amount of interest on the original
investment. The houses were built when general
building costs were abnormally high; therefore
the initial cost can hardly be considered a true
basis for computing interest. Also there have
been eight years for depreciation. Besides the
past few years have seen a general lowering of
interest rates throughout the business world.

We know of another college town where a new
five room house, near the campus, rents for forty
dollars a month, In the same place, a three room,
furnished apartment, light, heat, and water fur-
nished may be obtained for twenty-five!
these rentals are considered high!

Yet,

Campus Comments

Editor's Note: Student publications are essen-
tially for che purpose of expressing student opin-
ions on the multifarious activities and subjects
with which they may be ireetly or indirectly con-
cerned. Each week a portion of this column will
be reserved for a brief letter of commendation or
condemnation on subjects pertaining to life at
Davidson Caliege. Members of the senior, junior,
and sophomore classes will be eligible to submit
comments.

The student who submits his letter will request
another student, cligible for presenting material
for this section, to write a letter for the next issuc
of The Davidsonian. The main activity and name
of the author will appear’ with the letter. ~

In the past. editors have endeavored to obtain
student ideas but the iatter have shown a minimum
amount of interest in submitting their plans and
programs for publication. The lethargy of mem-
hers of the Davidson student body in this regard,
necessitates this method of obtaining student opin-
ion on subjects of government, activities, and
other questions of paramount importance on our

campus.
Sincercly,

JIM MORTON.

P. S.—I request Carleton Chapman, retiring
President of the Student Body, to submit a letter
for publication in the next issue of The David-
sonian.

This method of satire and ridicule was!

DAVIDSON
OFF THE

y RECORD

April Fool—And Yet
Once More Into the Breach

As a parting blast of the old staff
or withering’ barrage of the new, in
the ebbing number of this weekly
flow there appeared an editorial,
some forty bnes, vigorously con-
tending that the Eu, Phi, Oak and
Elm buildings oa the Charlotte
highway need their faces washed.
Just why one should desire to var-
nish those old red bricks and tur-
pentine the atmosphere, now redo-
Jent with pleasant tradition, we can
not see. The oldness, redness. and
ivy vines of the original dormitories
and ancient society halls are peace-
ful contrasts to the cyesores of glar-
ing newness that hasn't been rubbed
down by tess fortunate colleges.
Our Calendar of Habits

There are certain inevitabilities
in the business of editorial writing.
About a month before the retiring
stall is fired by, the student body.
there appears an editorial on the
aching need of a journalism depart-
ment here. Within two weeks after
the new stall comes in there reap-
Pears the annual editorial deplor-
ing the languishing interest in de-
bating, dramatic and literary activi-
lies, etc. About November a pane-
gyric comes forth thanking the
shiny new music department for
rescuing us from barbarism, and
there are others usually predictable.

Convention is a furrow plowed by
Adam and enchasmed by number-
less droves of humanity; he who
doesn’t topple into the canyon
struggles in rare atmosphere, rocks
and thorns,
Veterans of Future Wars

This satirical flash, conceived at
Princeton rapidly spread to the ma-
jor universities and is now swelling
in the wash of the nation's smaller
coléges. A Woman's Auxiliary was
organized at Vassar, a shot at the
bonus bill that came two months too
late.
Upon What Hath Caesar Fed .. .?

List to the sad tale of one of our
social fraternities. They had an af-
fair planned next Saturday with
contracts made and ever so many
charming little gals expectiitg to
come. On last Friday:morning they
received permission from the au-
thorized authorities to go ahead. On
Friday aftérnoon the permission
was rescinded. There must have
been a sudden deluge of protest in
the morning mail. Or maybe it
was the hurricane that caused this
‘sudden change of minds,
Suggestions

I say, Flip and Dan! The sign
above the Student Store reads

| Student's Storesinstead of Students’

Store. After all, there are two man-
agers.

Cokey keeps calling an important
meeting of the fresbman class. How
could there be an important meet-
ing of the freshman class? And to
the retiring or transforming BM-
OC's who run the elections: Is there
really any need to tell us who is on
the battot, to vote for one and sign
the ballot?

And the Winds Doth Blow

We don't know what starts a
hurricane. Something about hot air
and cold air. But Cokey, Johnny
Allen, Biscoe Howell, Harvey Mac-
Connell, Dan Giiffin and Buddy
Branton went to Brenau and
straightway there was a tornado.
We know where the hot air came
from. And probably a tornado was
needed to blow Johnny out of hid-
ing anyway,

Now that spring has come, some-
one should give Johnny Watkins an
umbrella. These showers. Galum-
nist has three pet prejudices: Yan-
kees, Republicans wand Freshmen.
Johnny looks like a freshman, talks
like a Yankee and acts tike a Re-
publican,

Peceadillos .. .

Now that Hauptmann has gone
if “We can just get rid of Billy
Crooks the world will be a fit place.
Casanova Harper brings them
weeping straight from the shoul-
der, Echo from J. Speaking: Val
should learn what to do with stock-
ings. Sad Note: Harry] McGloch-
lin went to Lynthburg but she had
joined the navy.

About ten of the lads returned
from Florida blushing disgracefully,

‘Sunshine. Moonshine or remorse.
.

Goof Cooke picks them from Reno
while Hal Overton picks them from.
the
G., Jerry Harris, Elmore Holt and
Dick Taylor went to visit Mrs. Vir-
ginia Beach. They should write a

STOLEN THUNDER

‘APPROPRIATE’...

The father visited his son at the University and took advantage
of his stay 10 coax the lad downtown to have his picture taken. The
photographer, ever secking to please, suggested that the bright son
stand with his hand placed caressingly on his father’s shoulder.

“Humph!" sniffed the old gentleman, “it would be a lot more
appropriate :it his hand were in my pocket."—Ohio, State Lantern.

~ LF * ¥
SUPERLATIVE .... 7

The meanest man in the world: That fellow who put a tack in
the electric chair . -. And then we know a cute little radio singer
who thinks vice versa is a naughty verse... The Shakespearian
cough: “T’ Bor not T.B.” —Clipped.

. * * * *
‘A RAG, AND A BONE, AND..."
@ The University of Florida contributes the following brilliant an-
alysis: Women treat men like slot machines, [i we don't pay off, they
play another . . . Women’s lines aren't as good as the broken
record. They don't even click! ... A woman judges how weil she
is dressed by the length of time a takes her... Women consider
alt men pearls and strive mightily to add them.to their personal

string.
* * * *

‘MOON OVER MIAMI’...

Add this to your repertoire of meaningful motions. Apparently
sign language is sweeping the south. This comes from L. S. U. Ges-
Place right hand gracefully on back of head. Interpretation:
Absent-minded Indian, looking for his horse.

ture:

e * * * *

TOO BADDA... -

A janea
A data
Out lata
“ Perchanca
A quiza
No passa
~ Gee Whizzall
~—Villanovan,

* * * *

STATISTICS ...

Yale graduates have 1.3 children, and Vassar graduates have 1.7
children, according to a recent student survey. All of which goes
to prove that women have more children than men... The man who
is always talking about his ancestors is like a potato; all that's ‘good
about him is underground, ~—Old Gold and Black.

Around Washington

By ARNOLD SERWER "~~

Washington D. C.-—-By Johnstown and Hartford standards this
town merely suffered from a little moisture during the recent floods.
It is true that the Potomac went over its banks, that the aged and
decrepit Chain Bridge a few miles above the city was threatened,
that several blocks in Southeast .Washington were under water a
few feet, and that Potomac Park around the Lincoln Memorial and
Hains Point were under water more than a few feet deep, but no
one, within the city limits was at any time in danger. No one even
got their feet wet, except some thousands of citizens who tramped
through the mud. and standing pools of water near Constituton
Avenue where the CCC boys and WPA workers under army super-
vision had hastily thrown up an 18 foot sandbag dike, tramped
through to see the “raging waters” and seemed disappointed when
they found out that all there is to see about an overflow is a great
deal of water and not much clse. .

The local papers extracted as much drama and excitement from
the local flood as they could for a few days, and then decided that the
town's number one story still was Congress, that you couldn't keep it -
off the front page with a minor league flood in the District, for
more than that period. And focusing their biggest spotlight on that
interesting body again they found that a great many Congressmen
were asking for flood funds for their states, particularly for the
stricken areas, that the big drive in the Senate to investigate the
WPA had died down, that pro and anti-Administration legistators
were getting ready for the first major skirmish on the new WPA
Appropriation, and that the Senate’s lobby investigation was. still
plugging along, ditto the A. T?@whkKT. inquiry. a

* * * * 5

And, oh yes, a flock of youngsters were in town appearing before
the Senate Committee on Education on behalf of the Benson-Amlie
Amefican Youth Act. The hearings were given-a reasonable amount
of play, but the general opinion was that the young folks speaking
for the bill failed to muster enough strength numerically and enough
ammunition oratorically. A parallel can be drawn between the floods
and the new Dill, in one sense. That is, that no amount of talk
for flood control impressed the legislators, before the floods, to the
point of talking about nationwide flood control backed by the—
billions that a real flood program would takc. Now they're all for ,
it on a large scale. Similarly, no amount of talk-for the Youth Act
will impress Congress, until the need for some such legislation is
brought home to Congressmen by some dramatic event that will
illustrate the scope and urgency of the youth problem. A march
of youth on Washington someday? Not as improbable as it seems
when one remembers that the bonuscers by doing it hastened con-
sideration of their demands, that the Townsendites have at times
spoken of it} and could and would attempt it by sending thousands
of delegates if it became the deciding move in their struggle. The
youth organizations don’t like to work that way, but if their bill is
completely ignored it is very likely many of them will start thinking
along such lines, and we may see another flood roll into Washington,
of thousands of unemployed young people between the ages of
16 and 25....

The newspapers are beginning to get worried about the effect .
of the flood on the Japanese cherry trees in Potomac Park. The
flood waters swirling about the trees may have damaged them. at
any rate to the extent of delaying or preventing their blossoming.
This would be a catastrophe to the local papers because the
blossoming of the trees is to Washington what the Mardi Gras is

to New Orleans. t

Iverson's Black Eye. Wood Burns
being chased.

Stage Door Johnny Atwater. Dan
Fitch, ctc. Judging y Walter
Dickson’s admiring bevy, it must
pay to be a track man. But can he

cradle. Norfolk: Smitty C.

Keyhole Kolumn. After a stren-
uous fishing trip last Sunday, fish
Sam Lowe, Mack Davis, and Sam
Ryburn were captured by an as-
sorted crew of Fisherwomen. Ban

keep track of them or do they keep
him going around in circles? And
the Pan-Hellenic Council hired a
good band for Bowery Ball: Boys,
I’m weakening.

Pret

Compare the —
NEWS.
From Davidsonians
of Years Gone By

eo
eo
e
e
e
e

tt PTOTTTTTTTT TT te

—Five Years Ago—

Don King of Johnston City,
Tenn., was elected president of the -
student body. Junior Speaking be-
gins tomorrow. Dr, Charles I. My-
ers conducted last Sunday’s vesper
service. Baseball and track teams
open seasons. Dr. J, T. Stone se-
lected to preach baccalaureate ser-
mon. Modern language meeting
scheduled for April 9-11.

—Ten Years Ago—

Baseball team defeats N. C., 9-8,
in a thrilling game, Junior Speak-
ing just concluded. Junior publica-
tion, “Saintly Rare” makes its ap-
pearance. Hlartce Branch wins
speaking. H. M. Austin elected new
editor of Davidson College maga-
zine. Jake Wade praises Wildcat
fighting spirit. Sunday sermon was
on “Foolishness.” Same as Dr. Gae-
belein. .

—Fifteen Years Ago—

Queen's College dramatic club
presents excellent entertainment.
Wolford beaten 11-8,- Real cowboy
singer, John Lomax, visits David-
son. Fourth issue of Davidson
magazine. makes appearance.
Among the movies: Fatty Arbuckle
in “The Round-Up” Wanted: A’
distinctive college yell. Dr. Wal-
ter L. Lingle will deliver commétice-
iment address at.Princcton Theolog-
ical “Seminary in May.

Pecoccevececocscosocoosvaneesoss

THIS.
COLLEGIATE
WORLD

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

When Fred Lemmer, student at
the University of Minnesota meets
his English professor, Mr. Weaver,
they both blush slightly.

Over a period of many wecks, Mr,
Lemmer has broken all records for
arriving late to Mr. Weaver's first
hour class. Hib alibis have varied:
“My alarm clock is broken” or
“there was a traffic jam” or “my
car busted down.”

Finally Mr. Weaver
“Next time you'll tell me your house
burned down.”

Last week. Mr. Lemmer was late
again. During the night his house
HAD burned down.

s 8 £

Governor Alf Landon is not the
only Kansas male winning renown
for his sense of economy.

Take the males at the University .
of Kansas for example. The men’s
council there has just issued a firm
resolution requesting the girls of the
canipus to share evenly in the eve-
ning’s expenses while dating the
amen, They have. even gone so far
as to formally request the cafe own-
ers of the town to issue separate
dinner checks for the women.

“Do not have a blase sense of
chivalry,” the University men were
advised by the council,

| OPEN FORUM |

Scintillating . 2. .

e

Dear Editor:

What is the matter with our for-
ensic artists? For small audiences,
our debating teams are far ahead of
Classical Concerts, Dramatic enter-
tainments, and all the other activi-
ties of our campus which draw
Miniature crowds.

At the recent debate with Mary-
land, held in,the Eu Hall, the audi-
ence came to about twenty, which
included only a dozen persons there
for the interest of the debate. The
others were reporters or members
of the freshman debating team.

There was a time when the life
of the campus centered around the
activities of the literary societies,
of which debating was the chief.
What has come over us? e

-.We attended the debate, Friday
night, and found it wonderfully in-
teresting. The debaters were at
their ;ease and really went at cach
other hammer-and-tongs. They

plead, they shouted, they legalized,

they harangued, and brought forth
'requent shouts of amusement from
a very interested audience.

Yes sir, we have decided that de-
bates are worth attending and have
resolved not to miss one during the
coming year. We advise all of the
campus that can crowd into the Eu
Hall to come and enjoy a most en-
lightening evening, the next time
we have debates.

Come on, folks, and see ’em scin-
‘tillatet

(Signed) RAT.

snarled,
