WEDNESDAY, OCT. 13, 1937 ‘ . THE DAVIDSONAwT ELL UO liege Page Five
Modern Trader Horn|Davidson’s Ca mpus Leaders Ex-College Pre President

Is Now Dairy Owner, Hastens, War’s End
Club to Hold mstbrete Send Pron

. paganda To Germans

iFirst Meeting FOILED GERMAN CHIEFS

New Kommerce Klub An- Sent Leaflets By Balloon to
nounces List of Prominent German Army

Guest Speakers

<Bighteen Dollar Bieyele "J Horine Seeks |
Into Three Cows ‘Ph. D. at Bonn:

_— , e 37 We ks for Hi
Automobile Is Bartered For E: Fs Horine University or 's

Cotton Crop

By W. . M. MEANS » —_——- .
Paging, Trader Horn, Abie’s' « Emmett Field Horine, ‘37, of | : £ Bites : > ‘
Pawn Shop or Major Clark! Louisville, Ky. is continuing his Haywood Hi. Wade Barrow Watson Street
Found at, last, the apotheosis studies abroad this year by working -
of trading expertness. He iS|for his Ph.D. degree in German].

i
none other than D. A. McLean, / literature at the University of Bonn |

‘40. “Gooly” began exercising in Germany. He studied under aj
his bargaining powers during : scholarship at the University of
his freshman year. The begin-: Heidelberg in 1936.

ning of the narrative of the
modern Trader Horn goes back
to those embryonic months of

the initiative vear.
Begins Career

The start was made rather un-
auspiciously just before Christmas.
vacation. McLean on one of his
many tours to Charlotte purchased |
a bicycle for the unbelievable sum
ef cighteen dollars. ¢ At Christmas |
the proud owner made the long |

TRADES ’CYCLE FOR CAR

Bonn, Germany —

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, for-
mer president of Davidson
College, who has been recently
praised for his pioneer work in
radiography in America, looks
more proudly upon the part he

The newly-organized Kommerce
Klub will meet tonight at 7:30 in
the Phi ilall, Heary Harkes, presi-
dent, has annonneed. Guest speaker
[for the evening will be R. E. Kerr,

we president of the merican played in bringing the Werid
| Trust Company, in Charlotte, N.C. War to a close than upon this
i Z $

It was at first hoped thar Mr. tiiest ~ distinction. says the
WEIL Wood, president of the bank, | Greensboro Daily News in a
‘could speak tonight afso, but it: ¢ - . -
oo. hat. \d . ounday feature arucie,
was found that he could mot bes“ ,) Sunith served Davidson Cal-
| present at this time. Llowever, he lege as professor-and president be-
has expressed willingness to ad- fore,sthe war.. Te teft Davidson
-| dress the clib at some futwmermect-" 1) take the presidency of Wash-
Png. ington ang Lee University, which—
i Other speakers sv.geasted tor fut- office he held when his idea which
, ure mecungs by club members in- aided in peace originated.
clude J, O. Mayo. Southern mana- Army Misinformed

wer of Swift Manudacturing Com- ane .
Sears as : By skillful wark during the latter
pany: P. WLD. Jones, vice-presi-———. -

In a letter to Dr. G. R. Vowles!
he says that he continues to enjoy
his work at the University. As ai
part of a study of the, Romantic
period he wrote a 6.000-word orig-
‘inat study of the author Jean Paul.
of which his professor said: “Tle!
showed that he bad thoroughly!
worked over his subject and was
well versed in the litertture of his
{material. Ilis paper showed a skill-

Bill Kiesewetter Bailey Williams Dick Vowles Jim Dorsett

L

? - ay “ * days of the Faropean contliet, the
$ ip i I ‘igs “ful mastery ol, the Germar Jang- Recently announced are these cight seniors who were sclected to represent Davidson ‘in the forth- dent of Piedmont Mire Vustiranee Gan eh t ' ' ted

and Jonesome trip mto he wilds age, and an independently critica] coming issue of “Who's Who In American Colleges.” Selections were made ‘by’ a faculty «committee ‘Company: and David Owens, man. SONA Meh command Suceee

oi eastern North Carolina lo his ntack of the subject.” , on a basis of achievement and teadership. ! in keeping trom the soldiers under

Beer ot Ivey's Department Store
Land past president of American .

home in Pinehurst on the two- ;
wheeled pavement pounder. Atter During a short vacation, Horie
the return trip to school the ‘evele took in the Paris Exhibition, there

theiy_ orders any news ot tide of
events and opitions sweeping over

*;F | Dry Goods Association. os
. A » t fa a Gs reek S - ourth Pep | meee ‘ “s Jo, the world. They dtstributed misin-
saw several months of interesting he ran across Jolin D. Alitn, David-. mong eC B o itty the aim of the organization: jormation throughout the entire
service. Many leceiones de espanol) son ’37) who later spent a tew days” : : Meet Held to have as Ruest. speaker at least avimy. ‘They published tales whieh
and square roots of nothingness | in Bonn with him. . une of Whe suceessial nen in each said that the ety of Now York had
were hurriedly crammed into the BETA THETA PI Salem. Brouher “Poss* Melean - held of modem comunerce, « Treen successiuliy _ destrayed, that
head of the precariously-balanced '  Mlazie Hall was the only brother spent the week-end at his home in’ Prof. Blythe Gives Talk; Holt ' “Otticets of the clubf not-previ- London was on the verge -o1 sur-
rider as he dashed fo classes, se- ] - rr ;to represem the fraternity at the Morgangon. Pledge Brother Char- Allows Freshmen To Ex- ously announced. are as follows: render and that the French gov-
viously endangering tg. Well-being Col eges ace . Duke-Tennessee game itr Durham. lie Smith went ta Sparranburg, press Feelings ilfenry Harkey. presidents Elmore ernment haq Riven up Paris, And
of his fellow students. Julian Squires Tom = Abbott . -_ , Holt vice-president; Charlie Brown so the German soldiers tought en,
Then came spring and summer Odd | roblem: Charles Pegram, and Rill Burch PHI GAMMA DELTA i | secretary: and Jerry Harris, treas- thinking that they were accom.
vacation. Midday of the closing ispent the week end in Greensboro: Rill Rolin, (ecorge “Richmond, and The fourth pep meeting of the urer. . . rplishing the -briflifint .victories. that
day found the bicycling Lochinvar , 7 On Sunday afternoon, Miss Mary Fred Stair went to VAIL withthe: year was held on last Thursday, — their otficers fold of, _
in the presence of one rural “garage! fycreased Enrollments Over- | Louise Kearney, Miss Zabelle Cor- tcam, and Cage Hrewer, Jim Dory! night. Although there were not . The Allies, however, realized that
owner between. Charlotte and Ale, tax Dormitory j win, and Mr. George Parrish, of sett. and Dill Nieseweuer also went. many uppereiassinen there to help, Davidson Men if Athed propaganda could be
bemarle. Circumstances had inter- ; Facilities ‘Greensboro, visited the house. The to fexinglon—to see the game. the ireshmen fairly shook the sym. / sprg¢ad over Germany that the ter-
vened and found it necessary for.| usual Sunday night “feed” was held... Urewer and Dorsett also traveled. Elmore Holt introduced a new yell Hl O | dl M ectine mination of the war would be near,
both owner and bicycle to stop for : KAPPA ALPHA rover to Kandolph-Magon. Brothers | called the “Skyrocker Vell.” Afier 7 - : yj The National Security l.cague of-
repairs. As it happened, this par-* Classrooms and dormitories irom” Uake?, Hrown,, and Miller and a number of yells had been given, i “ved a prize ior the most logical—

ticular mechanic was badly in need | coast lo coast are crowded beyond | wer a rather uneventful week Viedges Barker and Bon auended pith Lolin and Dave Warden spoke: Jackson To Be The Principal; ' ‘© accomplish dhe fent.
0 u : we Tennessee 1 . woe - arn . : .
of a bicycle for his youngster—ji capacity this Fall with what is pre-- a large pan ore ann so ‘i “othe Dake Yennessee game in Dur-. for a iew minutes. They said that | Speaker Before Group Dr. Smtih’s Plan
amus at a . : an ne
therein lies the start of a trade... sumably ghe largest throng of stu- a aeeead 5 t * To an ent © ham. Charie Martin and Dick pthe whole team would be fighting! Dr. Smith, wld had been a pro-
. : : reek ck trav. we : ., : . ‘e . :
Dave listened with patience and, dents ever to attend college in this! Week en nyun foe bauck trav- Shore went home to Winston-Sa- on Saturday againse Vo Mo Lo ath. gs -, | fessor of physi 1 met I
| scot rey cled up to the V.M.I. game at Lex- jon, and) Charlie Maeshall and! Lex re ( Sonth Carolina alumni of David-| fessor of physies and meteorology
yopen ears to the price the man! country, according to a survey just ; en an arlic | & H and! Lextagten Pref. Blythe, who is an, we ay, . ~ while at Davidser. hit apo stan
t tele ingion. Rrothers Freyer and Sum- gy Parish al lea tri -_ : ; : - _ son College will meci at the Colum. a avidse, pon a f ,
wanted for a ‘28 Chevrolet pick-! completed by the New York Times. Shoriy Parish also made a trip to;ardent football fan brself, spoke |: : . wT, thich would do tl ork idly
Strangely cnongh the bicyc! hern instituti hich Merell went to the Duke Tennessee ihe Twin City and told of tis coniidence in thes Pt Hotelm Colnbia for their ane | 8 MCV WOU Wo The Work rapielys
see at . orl “th sa mn ere Ie 3s Soumern ineverse of 77 mer Same in Durham. Brothers Win- team. -. vual anecting Saturday 42:30, | inexpensively and etiectively.. He
seemed to be worth the same out- res per : . : now ; > hin a
: ¢ =, show @ student inerease of 77 ] ers, Graham, Dunford, Sehabel. PH} DELTA’ THETA The occasion is the South ve arolina- knew that the batde lide lay in
landish amount. Of course the car cent, that most nearly approach ; - —FP _ . |__ An innovation was Started at vils

: F . Me 1 n the her sonke + ag ee | David a football ea | ayy Postion across, which hiew the
was to have a pump, good tires the imercase of last year. A few | McGarity, and Marion took i Brothers Crooks and Varlman, meeting, in that two7ol the iresh. | “EH TOO game, which will

. iiair in Charlotte Saturday night. the played at Melton field in Colum. "orth teniperate air dritr which ~
ANd enough gas for the remainder state owned schools, notably el Pledge Brother Spencer attended hia at 3 o'clock moved. steadily aeross Germany”

of the trip. After much wrangling Georgia Institute of Technology. 1 YALCA. convention at Montreat. ington, Hrothers Feuchtenberger feelings as to the namie on. Satur | and Austria-Puagary. Therefore

our focal expert proved too effic- and the Universities of Georgia and~ Tene Kenney has been. elected and Meknight took an extended day Molt explained that this mect- Bak 1. Tackson, treasurer O he proposed that this air drift

ient for the inexperienced yokel—. West Virginia, have spurted iar “head of the pledge group. week-end trip to Niuetield Lexing-! ing was Tealiy the new men’s and Davidson for many years, will be carry across the empite.a multitude

Dave crove off in the tar. ‘ahead of last year's gain. Halt ton and Sweet) Brar. Brothers that he felt that they should have the main speaker. Te will talk on oi amall balloons: tinwd to, desegnd
During the summer the car in-| the schools polled in the Southern ' ‘Don Drake aad Wally Morrow some part in it +hesides chgering. - brogress at Davidson in connection

attended the ViM.I. game in Leve| men were allowed to express their

? ata certain pom, carrying attache,

creased in value, that is. for the! states show arNénrollment. larger eatne® APPA, SIGMA Pledge. were suests oF the chapter over the Daring the evGning, Rob Wiliams wih the present Centennial MOVE: ed to them Aled propaganda,

owner. It was sold a niimber of | than ever before. Ploge attend the game in Lexing- weekend rrotnery rea ae: and Hector Mel can were called on men Phe sone tis year is | Idea Successful

times, always carefully to one who. In the East, where most of the ton, .Grothers Pittman, Uipp and respecting wnontes ek-end_at_tfei we saders also anvronnced what celebrating its 100th year. Vhis plan was aesepted and be

could make only one or two pay- colleges fave restricted enroll- Gleam spent the week-end at their ! ees Jims mest was for the Ae tea! Coach Gene Metiver, former Ail- gun inom. July with oatseanding

ments and then turn it in again. | ments. Title Hobart College and fomes. Brother Walker went to SIGMA PHI EPSILON eg ant me f : mervenns a ‘American back at the University \yeces.— the Germayis eve tied to
Turns To Farming New York University have made. gtontreat. ‘The chapter was paid a he trosh team played VAT tres iy -renmessee and. the country’s...

Une same. trick on the ilies.

Brother “unk” bitzgerald ts in’ at Hlacksburg, Va. on Friday but
s i tle . Va o wey, . m - _
leading” scorer in, 1929. well also Somewhere areu: d 27000000 leat.

As me for school neared Davei spectacular gains. F isi 7 i
ST if j short visit by Brother Ed Sulvain ine Charlutie Sanatorium ‘recover- suffered a 190 defeat. Also on

" j + ictly H woe . .
wondered just how he could aDzy Various means are being used 10! of State. Practically all the fest ing irom a recent appendicitis op-. rida the Ali-Ameri slaved. speak bricily. Caotain Vailey Wil- lets were dropped being the Ger-
pease the ire of the administration: provide the overtlow. The Unwer-* |; the brothers were in Charlotie vetion: 1 leon s the d: i ¢ ericans pla ; lias. of Clinton, $C. and Pal eae een nnn seereed. 5
in - * - ere n. sary Lvor sp eR os _ ; . 2 H :
in “regard to automobiles. Than sity of Georgia nas acquired space q, aring the week end. Miss Lib . ° na re Sy ; ons iar i ofting Springs to a 0-0 tic on the, Nicholson of Union are expected prize at vat ter his iden

fate intervened in the farm of an-j in hotels and private homes in an cek-end mn Salsbury. an oft. Davidsen ield.

Giue was a guess at super Sunday to be present. Frederick Smithy,

other bargain. This time it was. , attempt to stem the tide. For the evening. The brothers enjoyed the ce . the ; ve Ct wine —__s Sue former resident ot Columbia, now PHI BETA SETS

three aeres of cotton almost ready) ‘first ume in many years waiting regular weekly teed on Sunday. ° fora j 4 S Heit var one at So yh ‘Is . lin ovine the ahunnr seeretary of the college. : \

to pick. With little dbickering Dave lists have reached staggering pro- -- Cah, TOUneTS suman. ater i } a will intraduce wid speakers. (Contusaed from Page oy
became the proud possessor of a; portions as young men and women” PI KAPPA ALPHA Crabb, and Pledges Semmes? Pow-- Following Tlness  catdweit avithers. city editor of TF) Pali. presdemy br P
cotton crop and parted tenderly““are being twened away from their; Among the guests of the Leta oe Mizclle, and McDaniel, The, ae : the Cohimbia Record: is presidente SYee de. vice President, and Dr.
with a much-used ‘but extremely goal because accommodations for Chapter last week-end were the ni- Melvsuiel visited by Dr. and Mrs. . . | joi the Cohnubia chapter of David- fo Curing sceretary-
useful ‘28 Chevrolet pickup. | lodging and classroom instruction, tional vice president and historian, ./ cRanicl and Mrs. Mizelle, of Tar- Walter Fjtzgeratd. a member of

“ : * BxS) College alvuuni: Ernest Gra- Pruner,
. > . Hy DD. : : boro, over the Week-end. Alu afl Ss ono. : vag onere “on ones . .
. Then Farmer McLean added the gre not availabie. Dr, Freeman W. Hart. With him , ¢ s Alumnis-the Sophomore class, wag operated

, . cay eee ., . - adiewie f . , ham, orficiad in the Federal Land -—- a
crowning glory to his already well-: Throughout the West, from Ohio! were. Jack Summers. W. S. Preg- Brother Johnny Crizucrald and his on for appendicitis in the Charlotte

: le . . dank, is vice president; W. Talle

mother, Mrs. W. C. Fitzgerald, vis- Sanz um last panty

earned rewards. He first viewed: to Oregon, an expansion boom is in nall, Gary Hlutler, all of Jlampden- it ‘ th cha te * ald " | anator: mn lass week, _Edott. predessor at the University Helps Pl
c ec. apler over nc we - s

with alarm the rapid descent of the j- “progress, as every college and uni- Sydney’ College. and Dan D. Dav- pier ox ¢ Walter went to the hospital ins (5 South Carolina,

: is secretary: an

cotton market. He was all for versity turn theit attention to cush- | cnport of the: University of Mtorida, _ond. ‘Charlotte on Tuesday of ast week, KR. G. Wilson, with the Liggett aie co LDS =
turning his complete crop over to ing the construction of dormitories! Voug Neal, Beb McClellan, T..). ~ ; (3 and the doctor examined him, tell Myers Tobacco Coy if Treasurer, Nod Sor :
Mr. Roosevelt for practically noth-| Wich will open to the Class of ‘42. /lurner and But: Durham jourhey- JOURNALISM COURSE ling him thay be must bé operated? ; Specialy ¢ andl Upper.

ing so long as it was more than  yiowever, the increase in enroll- cd to Durhain for the Duke-Ten- on immediately, Tis appendix had y | ee throat, where 3 out

the market price when along came jnent this Fall has fallen consider- "essee game and Jim) Anderson sruptured badly, and he was in a : “—"F of 4 colds start. Use

. . . (Continued from Page 1)
‘ably below the mark set last year. ‘went to Spartanburg. Ruius Alli- editorial writing,

This barterer wished to exchange yj 9s¢ faculty and administrative 200, Charlie Akers, SU Robinson ang pews and ieature photography.
for .something more stable his: pepresentatives have been far too’ spent the week-end in Charlotte ay an added—haneiit he expects to
(Continued on Page 6) ‘ busy-registering the throngs of stu- and peotty Kaynal, Addison Long, have successful newspaper «men to now. and he will be out o1 the hos-

dents to take a minute off to theo- Pledges Shelton and McEhyce to pitai iw about ten days.

1 it at the first sneeze.

When Away From Ficine } Vicks

Dine At Tlome
At

another would-be Levi. very serious condition on Juesday
and Wednesday. Hlowever, ke is

‘reported tovbe getting: along well

headline writing,

talk to the class on their cxperis

a es te te tes +

After regular routine matters! Registration here. at Davidson
were brought up, a program was reached an all-time high this year,
presented, consisting of short talks!with 675 students enrolled and sev-

° ° rize. Some have expressed the Statesville, Johnny Reisner Of cnees. Among those who will be = : i ~
Philanthropic. opinion that this drop was caused. White Plains, New York, was initi- invited to speak are Dr, Julian Mae BULLETIN OUT i i The Wooden Bowl |
H ld S - by Congress’ cut in their appropri- ated Thursday nighh. ler, editor of the Charlotte Observ- (Continued from Page 1) 125 West 44th St i Dry Goad ‘
— : + tee . . * * I>
O S ession ation ior the National Youth Ad-.- Bi KAPPA. PHI er, ont editorial Writing | T.eGeute this rand. (neler ‘in. this is the ned
‘ministration, _ Brothers Arrows: 4' <4 Law. Ulythe. of the Observer on feature one large gift of B25,60 for the Charlotte, N. C. i: ——— receries
Me Yegular meeti meeting of the Phil- Prosperity in many guises and son away for: V.P.I. and WMI Stories :| Jake Houston, of the Ob- new Infirmary now in the process iP Radto sprples
anthropie Literary Scewry was held from many causes; ranging irom . pay) server,on news photography: Cam- ag. crebti : ingle state : Slat tware
in the Phi Hall last mght better crops” in Kansas to the xames.  Brether Towill to VeMLL- cron ‘Shipp. of the Charlotte News preston, ah [angie stated - cinetemeidienaienilimiants cual, iw :
‘Ty h , . a . Deal” i .Sag._llemphil, went home for ST" pp. Tiglte News. the two immediate objectives a new i
_ Twenty new men have applied “influence of the New Dea in’ week-end and Bid Ivey, Fred OF Iovie and dramatic criticism; | ibrary and a new Science Uaill. Don't le \ Paldhead i . i
ifr memberstip into—the “Soeietyy—Festep—has—becn_noted by regis- via. e Louis Ile to Rock Hill, fim Pridgin. of the News, on ficeld4e bulletin was concladed with &- trv Th New ?} M. H. GOODRUM.!:
and according to Henry Harkey,j trars. Many of them also speak of Piedge Frank Niven went to Albe- Non-and Mrs. Marion Sims, well- summary of the high ideals of. XERVAC i & CO Ff
president of the group, a like nim- fnew appreciation of the values.of ong Pledge jimmy Connley known Charlotte novelist and short) pavidson College. DAVIDSON i} ~ ri
ber will have their applications in,'a higher education among the peo-, , hpmne-to Wayeross, Ga. Bro-, “!0r¥ writer, on the short story. “ _ BARBER SHOP ?| Zenith & R. C. A. Radios |
before ihe next mecting. ple. ther Jim Wilson journeyed to Duke | Further inforination about the . 53 : ei

game and_points north. Brother: COUrS* will be printed in the Dav-| Johnson’s Barber Shop
Harry Ilendrick to Greensboro andi idsonian in the near future.
Wiinston- Salem. _—

a 7

by, the different officers of the club.| eral hundred turned away to try! : Qf @

Russgit Kerr, first critic, empha-ielsewhere or wait until next year. | SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON : CHATTER i Meats
sized that there would be a regular, More emphasis is being placed ‘on| Brothers Perry:, Sloan, Bennett! Success story af the week con-|/ Your Only BUFF SHOE a Vor A King
program, diversified as to kind and the campaign to raise funds to | Harrison, ete Marchant,, and: cerns Trinity College's Van Campen |: SHOP QUALITY
participants. | carry on an expansion program “Hayseed” [Thomas went to the, Heilner who has.received the high- & 10 7

President Harkey also stated that: here, since more students than ever; Duke-Tennessee game last Satur- est honor the Cuban government
the Philanthropic Society would| before were forced to seek lodging day. Brothers Springs Pharr,| can bestow—the Order of Carlos
challenge the Eumenean Literary | ont in town. . Several private homes; John. Latimer, and Jake Jacobs} Manuel de Cespedes—for. reeling in
society to a debate in the near fu-] owned by the college ‘have been} went to.Columbia last week-end,| the largest tarpons ever caught off
ture, in ¢x¢Hange for the challenge; converted into temporary dormi-j| stopping en route at Rock Hill.! the island! ... Maude Adams, the.
received by the Philanthropic so-| tories with three or four boys liv-} Mark Cauble, Charlie Fuller, Jim-; “Legit” star-of -years back, heads
ciety last year, in which the Phi’s| ing in a small back room that used| mie; Currie and Pledge Brother| a course in dramatics at Stephens
emerged victorious. to serve as a kitchen, ‘Henry Bahnson went to Winston- College. .. . a —_—

_ GROCERIES
Sherrard Rice I; K. HAMPTON |

Campus Representative Davidson, N. C.
2 PHONE 193

SOUTHERN
__5&10 STORE

a —

