Page Two

The Dabidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of

Collegiate Digest -

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” ,

Printed By The

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

. SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPHEGENTEO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING OY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
Callece Publishers Representatsve

420 MADISON AVE New Yorn, N.Y

CHicaco «No + 4 + Los Woes + Sau FRENCISCO

Entered as second-clasa matter at the Pose Office at Davidson,

North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

EDITORIAL STAFF

|

Editor-in-Chief !
Business Manager

Even though it may be impudent to dis-
credit that explanation, there is another
that editors often must admit to themselves.
And that is, that as a class editors are about
the worst plagiarists in captivity, and very
hile of what they write merits the first per-
son pronoun.

The editor reads and talks and listens -to —

countless expressions of ideas. tle may
scan a dozen exchanges commenting upon
some news of the day. and talk to a dozen
more persons about it. He gets letters and
hears radio commentators. And then when
he gets around to writing a piece of his own,
his mind ts a jumble of many contributions.
Very lite of what he produces is his own,
except the arrangement.

_ Consequently when the editor writes

"““we' he may not only be secking anonymity

but also he may be paying uneonscious
homage to the ideas that have come to him
in one way or another from others. Maybe
the editor is thus trying lo give credit he
cannot place more accurately.

Perhaps it might be well for all persons
expressing opinions to say “we think so.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus in Cartoon

[10 POUND BOOK

PROF, R.H WHEELER, UNIV OF
KANSAS IS WRITING A

(000 PAGE MANUSCRIPT WITH
PAGES 4 FEET WIDE AND |8

INCHES HIGH! HE IS RECORDING
THE INTER-RELATION OF POLITICAL.
LITERARY, HISTORICAL ART AND
SCIENTIFIC DATA

4
ON fil TE eT Rare

ay
© by Assevrated Colteguate Press
AE do, Waronan

Vi ANOVA AND
ALABAMA POLY
PLAYERS WHO
PARTICIPATED
IN THE NEW
YEAR'S GAME
AT HAVANA,

LOST AN
AVERAGE OF

9'2_ POUNDS
APIECE /

i ficed his own
| martyr-like when he descended in-

f
°

¢ For A

i

King.
Day
___By CHUBBY KING

/

ee er en eernenmne een ae
Se ees

“At last, after weeks of unceasing
endeavor and much hardship and
loss of respectability on part of the
Kang, he finally cornered Horse-
play Hill and sought photographic
evidenge of the latter's known dis-
reputable character—strong traces
of which can be seen clearly in this
little candid shot. However unfor-
tunately, Kang of necessity sacri-
seraphic features

to depths and secured this remark-
able likeness to vice personihied—
in one hill of low repute. He only
begs forgivenessfor this irremov-
able blemish against himself and

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 17, 1398.

ulant to this fellow’s vanity, or tu
any guy's for that matter... Lyons
renews past close friendship with -
Teeney Cooke ...Sea Wright very
much at sea when fortune smiled
in form of, beautiful bus compan-
ion + in fact he was so strickened _
that he failed to meet the young
lady altogether Perry Sloan.
and Benny Harrison to Knoxville
for UT-Vanderbilt dances—Benny
very much interested in cotton sec-
tions .... Neal Scott, Warren Gaw,
Raymond Pittman, and Joe Calvin
to Fayetteville—en route the plump
Calvin, heavily garbed due to in-
clement weather, mistaken for:

Fitzhugh Dade. ..22 2... eel eee ene en ene ce eeed Assistant Editor ~ wo . woe - : . . . wage
vid Hell. "Managing Editor | For the chances are that it is not the individ- requests that you have discerning | young lady by plain spoken filling
A sapcoa cen Managing Editor | + — ; inka indiws eyes only for the contorted wretch! sijiion attendant . . .

Wesley Coghii Managing Editor | ual who is thinking, but the individual plus ith him—Anguis in

Terrell Porter Managing Editor | - who appears with him—Anguis Thought George Jones constant
Perry Sloan .. Managing Editor | a dozen or a. hundred or a thousand other BEKE FIRST COLLEGE YMCA herba! .

Rill Marquess - --Sports Editor . . : : soe VN an sort of chap but after his spend-

Qwen Cooke _... “Associate Editor | nyinds with which he has struck fire. And BUILDING ERECTED IN Few brief notes...All consola-1,° ¢ tes in Greensboro _
Sam. Cothran -Associate Editor . . . AMERICA 1S STILL IN USE ¢ . - Ned I _.ing four nites in ro a
Euclid Fant a5 ~Associate Editor perhaps if we are not quite so personal in IT WAS BUILT IN 1883 AT tion to one poor fellow, Ne vet different lad each nite — I have.
ector McGeac ssociate Editor a . . . + : ;

Yates) Faison - Associate Editor | our opinions, we will manage thereby to HANOVER COLLEGE, INDIANA sone wo wn apoune smi anc) my doubts... Where’s Miss Mau-
PU YUEN wonac er conn seeennsa reer ssesan seen acereenc es rt ec tor . : : . exploits, s miserably in|. .

Henry. Bakes -Movie Editor | keep our minds more receptive to new ideas. ootba Dioits y pin? ... Wish someone would cen-

Andy : Collection Manager
ohn Latimer . --Advertising Manager
Bitl Miller 2.2. Asst. Advertising Manager
Westie Coghill -Circulation Manager
Terrell Porter -.-Circulation Manager

Sam Hemphill

Of ten reasons for which’a magistrate decides a
case, nine are not made public.

Neither dogs nor madarins injure those who give
them anything.

“Money covers many offenses —Chinese Proverbs.
y y

Our Ultimatum...

The Davidson College student body is now
faced with this ultimatum — clean dances.
free from drinking, or absolutely no dances
at all.

Although the student bedy as a whole did
not Go anything to ineur this ultimatum, the
problem now rests with us. Now the whole
weight of the nvatier ties in the natuce of
the plan to be proposed by the committee
aiter due conference with the fyculty. In
the tirst place, that move is a wise one. To
go through the procedure of passing a pro-
posal through the student body and then
jind the faculty averse to the plan would
be évolish. :

We cannot help bu: feel that the student

sst...Business Manager

body wit continue to offer whole-hearted_ !
support tesany proposal that will insare |

dances. Any eriticisms that may be offered
will probably be hased on the nature of the
plan to be promosed, not on the basic ques-
tion. .

It seems to be essential that there be no
drinking at Davidson dances. tavelve hours
before and twelve hours aiter, Ji this is to
be the case, some system will be necessary
that will control drinking on dance week-
ends and report any violations. Whether
otienders would be put on a “black list” or
immediately expelied is a matter of specu-
lation, (In any case. many ditiiculties will
arise if such a system is otiered. and very
jew other alternatives scem tc present
themselves, — ~ ~

tCa studemt group will take over the un-
pleasant task of reporting violations before,
at, and after college davces, whe problesi
will probably adjust itself and the solution
may be’ the best possihle. Put how would
you feel if yor were one of those students?
Dissension wiil inevitably arise it cases of
drinking at danees are discovered, and re-
ported,

But suil this seems to be the only possible
sotution, and we recommend it for adoption
unless a better svstem can be worked out.
That is the purpose of the appointed com-
mittee and their work with the faculty.

{i the honor svstem could be extended to
take in this probiem, a solution might also
be found tto the question. Tha’ was sug-
gested at student body mecting vesterday.
Lut ibs once mere involves the soundness
of any honor system. However, we believe
that, if an acequate solution is found, it
will be of necessicy based on the honor sys-
tem, whether a student control group is
utilized or not,

In any case, to reiterate, an adequate
solution must be found and the co-operation
of the entire student body insured to keep
any dances whatsoever at Davidson.

*

x kk

Editorial’ “Wer -

There is an old explanation among news-
paper men that the fondness for the ex-
pression “we” in editorial use arises from a

need of intimidating irate readers who might
be afraid of tackling more than one editor.
.

Lecause if we become too impressed with
our own brilliance, we may cease to place
proper importance upon the idea gems that
come to us and our own progress is thereby
slowed down.

Which thought, it may be added, came to
us from somewhere else, some time, some-
where.— Birmingham News,

*

* k

*
Thanks, Queens! ...

Thank you, Queens-Chicora, ior your all-
inclusive invitation to the Davidson student
body. We welcome it and look forward to
another Queens-Dawdsoa funetion, this
lime with you as the host.

Nothing that we ean think of at the time
promotes better fechng among seighbor
schools than this son of thing. Too often,
there exist petty hatreds and ill-feeling be-
tween colleges close to one another. But
there is none of that fecling between us,

and may there never be.
e :

*

With The Staff |

“A lot has been said reeently about both
Sides oi the question as to whether we have
lost our spirta, if we ever had the spirit we
claim. [Ht seems hat the send-off given the
team before they went to Harvard should
stop this for a while, by proving that there

is that famous spirit here. and a lot of it.”

To those few of you who thought the
weather too bad here though, just read the
newspaper accounts of the weather in which
our team fought the superior Harvard
eleven. .

Several. of the freshmen have showed
that they were terribly hurt dy the few un-
kind words said about them in editorials. ft
is indeed a shame. They still don't aet as
freshmen should. Wonder what's the
matter?

The new infirmary is about finished now.
We should all appreciate it, for it fills Dav-
idson’s most urgent need. Now let's think
again about our most popular need-—a gym-
nasium with a swimming pool. This seems
necessary before Davidson can claim to be a
well-equipped. modern college. Let’s ail
work for it.

H anyone would like to see a newspaper
stait that is tar more like the ones pictured
in the moyies than real city papers, just
look in on The Davidsonian office any Mon-
day night. There is plenty of hair-tearing
and huilabaioo and excitement.

The entire staff nominates this as the
best one of the year. Edisor Yowles calied
an important meeting last week to eriti-
cize the freshmen and sophomores about
their stories. Ye editor was unable to think
of .enough bad words to say so he asked
Fitz Dade, Assistant Editor, to do a litte
talking. Dade started taking each of the
front page stories and picking it to pieces.
Then he came to one (and we'd better not
say which) and exclaimed that it was defi-
nitely the worst. It had all the bad points;
such as, editorializing, padding, weak sen-
tence structure, etc., etc., according to Dade
and the staff agreed. Vowles for some rea-
son got red in the face and then redder still.
He wrote the story, it seems. Too bad that
the constructive side of the meeting was
ruined by this but from then on there was
only laughter. Too, too bad if Scripts ’n
Pranks Ryburn should see this.

_ Terrell Porter.

7
Ree gO

Washington, D. C. — Compulsory
military training in_colleges — par-

ticularly land grant colleges which

receive federal funds — is often
the target for criticism by peace
organizations. However, the way
in which our college students are,
in some instances, forced to take
military training contrasts strong-
ly with the manner in which young
men are trained for war in foreign
countries.

In Switzerland, Italy, France, Ru-
‘mania, Peru, Germany, Algeria and
Iraq all young men are compelled
to undergo a period of military
tfaining. And this is not in con-
junction with college work. They
have to serve a year or more in
the army, just as do regular sol:
diers.

-Military service in Turkey is re-.
garded as so important that it is
practically impossible for a young
man to get a job unless he has
completed his military term.

Around

Washington

By Marvin Cox

(A. C. P. Correspondent)

. Co-eds are not always omitted
in training for the national defense
in other nations. For instance, the
Woman's Home Defense Organiza-
tion in Estonia trains young wom-
en for their part in war through
an organization called the Home
Guards->— .

The Boy Scouts organizations in
some countries have been drifted
as military training agencies. Boy
Scouts in Brazil, for instance, are
financed by the government and re-
ceive training for war under the
Ministry of War.

Military training is compulsory
in Argentina between the ages of
18 and 21. However, all youths
are not required to undergo the
training. Lots are drawn and the
trainees are selected m this man-
her.

So, after considering the compul-
sory military service of more mili-
‘taristic nations, drill two or thrée
Ltimes a week in college ROTC
| units may not be so bad after all.

+. Body on Control

. (Continued from Page 1)
without considerable discussion pro

and con. Moir Halt and Jerry Har-
ris expressed themselves as defi-

the senior class, also offered com-
ments. .

Monroe Wicker then called for
the question and the student body
by a large majority approved the
motion with a standing vote.

his attempt to enter the good graces
of one charming Steele person. . .
Felicitations to Keesy Wetter who
alone represented Davidson at Con-
verse dance Sat nite — we're slip-
ping, kids . . . Flowers to Rufus
Plunk who completely conquered
my old friend at Blowing Rock —
the best hospitality the mountain-
ous region affords ... More and
bigger flowers to ex-grad Woody
Burns who has just been blessed
with a Blessed Event — Woodrow
Junior now...

Sunday School Attendance
Try rising early, ye multifarious
sinners, and get in on fine program
especially designed for your enter-
tainment and benefit. It only
means sacrifice of approximately
one hour’s sleep, which loss will
probably triple in value to you.

Colénel Liipfert according to
close female observer, possesses
boudwoir eyes—an excellent stim-

Tak

BIG APPL.E--Of course it's old.

sor Boyd, Barrow, and Brent for
extensive trip
southward—how those guys can do
. Casanova Smith
dug into the past while at Boston,
and what a delightful and revealing

past—the lovely Miss Sally Rand
... » His Lordship Gilliam also to
Boston but for unknown reason,
unable to reach the game.

expensive and

it is beyond me...

Our burlesqueing ball players at
Old Howard — Captain Williams
roughly ordered to remove his coat

. from adjacent seat. . . Teeny
Lafferty and. Jim Dorsett at same
joint . ... At some Gibbs school,
Fred Dennis with-cver remembered
Alice Dunlap ... Fred Stair’s en-
try into New York society at side _
of Park Avenue damsel . . . Gen-
eral merriment as some made first
visit to bright lights . . . Bosét
friends were State players return-
ing upon same train.

e It Easy...

By Rut Miller

recreation center would help. We

This column never gets anything| have one, yes, one pool table and
unless it is too old to put anywhere | OC ping-pong table with cracked
else in their yellow sheet. But the paddles., What is there to stay
pressure brought to bear by three | here for? [t's only natural that the
thousand rabid fans of this latest} boys “want to get, away from it
dance craze in their letters and| all” so to speak. And if in such
their mass meetings in front of my] 4" atmosphere we get restless,
home is not to be.ignored... As a] Whose fault is it? I'm.asking, not
result a committee was sent to | telling. Give us something, to do
the President of the Pan-Hellenic | over the, week-ends, it would save
council. They demanded to know] Our modtey and perhaps we could
why the dance had been banned] Pay a little on our pledges. (per-

nitely in favor of the proposition as
it seemed to offer the only way out
of the present situation. Leonard
Fort: also expressed himself as in
favor of the motion.
jronston Kenney stood on the
negative side, affirming that in his
opinion the college would never
( abolish dances, and that it was un-
fair to place such a small portion
of the student body in such a great
Position of responsibility. Bruce

Dr. Lingle Preaches

President Walter L. Lingle. of
Davidson College, occupied the pul-
pit of the Grace Covenant Presby-
terian Church, in Richmond, for
both morning and evening services
this past Sunday.

Dr. Lingle, returning to the city
in which he spent.seventeen years
of his tite, visited many of his

at the Davidson dances.. His an-
swer was two-fold: “The floor of
the dance hall is too weak to stand
the combined stomping of all the
dancers.” Also, ‘The boys are just
Getting fed ap on the big appie.”

ANALYSIS—An analysis of a
“common element in everyday life
has been advanced by a chemist at
Indiana State Teachers’ College.
Element: WOMAN. Occurence:
Found wherever man exists. Sel-

Parcell supported Bronston Ken-
ney’s Second statement. Watson
Street struck a new note when he
suggested that the drinking prob-
lem be put under the honor sys-
tem. Kellog and Fielding Clark of

friends there. He also visited the
Union Theological Seminary, where
he was once a member of the fac-
ulty, and spent some time with
Davidson men who are there now
preparing for the ministry.

e
Dean Views Danee Problem
”
(Continued from Page One)—
But as you know, without theco-operation of the students, these
can do little about it except to take measures to abolish all dances under
the auspices of any Davidson organization. Only the stucents, with the

in functions off the floor of the dance hall' where the abuses largely occur.

Many ministers and members of the Board of Trustees are saying,
“There is no such a thing as a clean dance, without drinking. drunken-
ness. immorality, and lewdness.” We believe there can be clean dances
dissociated from such evils, and that the Davidson studem body can
show the world it can be done. Can Wwe mor step out and say that in
this matter we are different from others and pride oursclves in it?
Can't we venture to take a stand foe something distinetive in this par-
ticular?

It would obviously be unfair for. us to take drastic action without
offering our students an opportunity to co-operate in an effort to correct
this evil. We have come to the parting of the way and must choose
between Davidson dances without intoxicating liquors or no Davidson
dances at all. We want a declaration of your choice in this matter.

Is the student body willing to vote to pledge themsetves to an active,
sincere effort to abolish drinking from our dances and from all func-
tions direetly connected with them? Are you willing to have your Presi-
dent appoint a committee to co-opcrate with our Faculty Fraternity
Committee to devise an effective system of control during the dance
‘period, this plan to be submitted at an early date to the student body for
adoption or rejection.

If you are not so willing, the only recourse left us is to abolish our
dance program and we propose to recommend that this be done at once.
We are convinced we owe as much to our parents and students for their
future protection against .the possible recurrence of the humiliation
suffered in the last few days.

. * ~ wae . . reci p
co-operation of the Faculty, can control drinking and the liquor Ycew cclous stones,

Cordially yours,
M. E. SENTELLE, Dean.
i

oa ‘
«

dom in free state. with few extep-|
tion the combined state is preferred.
Physical properties: All colors and
sizes. Is usually in disguised con-
dition.— Face coyered with film of
composite material. Balks at noth-
ing and may freeze at a moment's
notice. However, melts when prop-
erly treated. Very bitter if not
well used: Chemical properties:
Very active. Possesses great af-
finity for gold, silver, platinum and
Violent reaction
if-letr alone> Able to absorb ex-
pensive iood at any time.
times yields to pressure.
green when placed beside a better
looking specimen. Ages very.rapid-
ily. Fresh variety has very great
magnetic attraction.

. BULL SESSION — Naturally it
was football, what else could it be?
(don't answer that), We were pick-
ring tie all-state teanis fOr this year.
Try it. It will provide a heated dis-
cussion that can be made to run
into the wee small hours. Next
caine this “on the campus” busi-
ness. How can the school expect
us to stay on the campus all the
time with nothing to do but study?
What are holidays for? Maybe a

a

ROLLS DEVELOPED

Any size roll kodak film develosed, eight

Some-

Rever-fade Velox Printe tor only ¢
VALUABLE P
si ari or
e
Jack Rabbit Co,
SPARTANBURG, 8. C, (COIN)
Malling Envelopes tor Filme Purntehed

Turns |

haps).

THUMB NAIL SKETCH—From_
the ridiculous to the sublime. A
freshman last week, a senior this
time. And what a senior. He is a
fraternity man and the idol of the
t Pledge group. His time is divided
between The Little Pep, Concord
jand Richardson Field. Weighing
litte, more than one hundred and
fifty pounds he is an iron man with
no ilies. A great friend of Louie
Mark, State College center. Inci-
i dently he is president of the ath
letic association and very popular
with the student body. He will
:come when called cither “Kapan-
onis” or “Big Gun.” Much more
could be paid’ but is it necessary?

BORROWED — Love is like 2
poker game; It takes a pair to open.
she gets a flush, -he shows diamonds.
rand it ends with a full house. (Take
this clipping to- Your nearest Easy”
dealer and receive-free a new iron-
[ne board).
pj reneesunerernernsasemmeeenee ee natraamapad

Visit
KING’S
SODA & GRILL

o

FOUNTAIN SERVICE
SANDWICHES - LUNCHES
REGULAR DINNERS

Sd

Popular Brands of

Cigarettes 12c
(Camels, Luckies, Old Golds,
Chesterfields, Raleigh,
Piedmont)

o

; Free Telephone | _
; o

Corner 4th & S. Tryon St

