Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 24, 1937.

Three Teams Tied For
Lead in Frat Football

Sports Afield

Harriers Place Third
In Conference Meet

Battle Royal
is Feature of
Mat Tou rm y

Annual Intramural Wrestling
Tournament Draws Many

Entrants
The Intra wrestl tour-
nam n ed t finals with con
testa npe g in all of eight
“lasst ntrants showed surpris-
x t leir first tests of the
as

As the Wildeats take the field eaturing the ogram was a bat-
against the Demor Deac t ul be en Coach Parks Har
morrow in Charlotte eight irers|? Charl Parke captain of
of the Red and | ear’s Leonard Fort,

for their last ge gat Capt. | 1 e Craver
Bailey Williams, 1 Latferty Bill, Spicer Bobby Williams

Fred Dennis, Frank Purd Hey 118 pound title,
wood Hill, Nick“ Spen-] \ nd “Chump”
1 aries’ Do son battle in 155 pound
in ye in| cla while Mille “Trader
ting eve Hy Melean will meet dark
victory ir Cars ove] Horses’ in the 175 and unlimited
IE YY classes respective None of these
ave met any competition as-yet for
Wake Forest Game i sit ‘

According to the latest pre-game In the 126 pound elass Whisnant
ballyhoo heard around the cam- ] meet Fisher for the title, after
pus the Deacons will be a push- g Moore
oyer. But don't kid yourself. They Bailey Wins
have a ball team over at Wake For- St dase | ey pinned Brandon
est that has been improving all Ji; 2 min. ar ec., and will’ meet
season and is nobody's set-up. It is} j}.. \\ r in the tinals for the

true that they lost to the Dukes] j45

67-0, but on the other hand they most hotly-contested matches
bounced Erskine 19-0, only two in the 135 pound class,
points short of the score the Cats re are eight entrants.
ran up on the Seceders. Fred I ince I] meet Joe Wil
However. .as fee r ( n, x advanced

r he’ ¢ r hing } ( leeve and
tory for | il gh he ex-]}i e Kenne ind Bill’ Telford and
pects a ra H g ave sspectively, Ken
mat r Parrish and

kr buf Wi the first round,

} th 5 Louis

cece Brosh in Win
The other day Coach Bill Alex Over Wofford

ander of Georgia Tech had an idea

which sounds as if it might be eae
th thi if it could b t ° : .

Mee ance Sk on bak ate Nic Schiltz Paces Kittens In

if ’ = Last Meet

viewed by Morgan’ Blake, sports

Fleet Cat Distanee Men

F

sexes. & PRE
(Courtesy Charlotte Observer)
The Davidson cross country team has enjoyed one of the best seasons in recent years, boasting a
record of five wins with only one loss. Under the tutelage of Coach Pete Whittle the Harriers have de-
feated State, Duke, Guilford, Mercer, and Auburn while losing only to the North Carolina champions.
The team is composed of only one senior, Capt. Bruce Parcell, four juniors, and four sophomores, and,
consequently, the prospects for next year are unusually good. Boo Walker has been the most con-
sistent winner for the Wildcats, and Parcell and Woodard have alternated at the second and _ third
positions.

| Harriers Take Third in Conference

) Conference Meet Closes Suc-
cessful Cross Country

Terriers

D ro} All- Americans

P ° TTA) | S * e
Davidson Kits. sed Conquer Lions
| Davidson's cross-country team tes
Johnson Treks 72 Yards For| completed their 1937 season by | Harrison Carries Ball Over the

Only Kitten Tally placing third in the Southern Con Line ‘in Third Quarter

Wildeats Meet Demon

Eleven Davidson Seniors End

Gridiron Careers; Coach Pea-

head Walker Says Wake Forest Starting Lineup

- Deacons Thursday In
|

Will Be Same as Usual

Three Frats In
Tie For First

|

| A rejuvenated, powerful team of
| Phi Delts supplied the highlight of
last week's inter-fraternity foot-
ball toppled the
Phi Gams and the Kappa Sigs from

program as they
the undefeated ranks, leaving these
three teams in a tie for first place
with one loss each.

In the most important game last
between the Phi Gams
Phi Delts, Phi Delt Bob
borough broke through the Purple
line late in the

block Kiesewetter’s attempted

week, and

the Scar-

fourth quarter to

quick kick from his own ten, and |
Moore’ recovered the ball behind |
the goal to give the Phi Delts a 6-0|
The Phi had out- |
played the victors throughout the
game, chalking up four first downs
for the Phi
Delts, and apparently had the situ-
ation well in hand until the blocked

victory Gams

as compared to

one

kick cost them a touchdown.
Phi. Delts Win
Monday, in a game which was

marred by the bitter cold, several

questionable decisions — against
both teams, and the falling dark-
ness, the hard-charging Phi-Delts

continued their championship drive
with a win over the heretofore un-

defeated Kappa Sigs, winning by
three first downs after they had
tied the score late in the last half

at 6 to & Johnny McQueen inter-

cepted a pass early in the game

The traditional DavidsOn7Wake
Forest rivalry, which has been in
existence 1908 will again
come to the front when. the Wild-
battle the Demon Deacons at
Memorial Stadium in Charlotte to-
morrow, Thanksgiving Day.

since

cats

Eleven Davidson seniors, seven of
whom are regulars, will be singing
their far
collegiate

swan song inter-
football concerned.
Heading the list is Teeney “Twin-
kletoes” Lafferty, made
football fans their seats
for the past three years, with his
brilliant playing. Other Wildcat
who will close their ca-
are Newton Smith, Fred
Dennis, Frank Purdy, Chubby King,
Bob Greene, Bailey Williams, Hay-
wood Hill, Spencer Goodman, John
Sadler, and Bill Nicholson.

Billy Eustler of Whiteville, Dave
Fuller of Wake Forest, and Allen
Powers of Denver, Tenn., are soph-

so as

is
Who has

freeze in

gridders
reers

omores who will be seeing .service
against the Davidson team for the
first time. Eustler is small, weigh-
ing but 150 pounds. He is a left-
hander and Coach Walker runs
at right halfback so that he
can throw the reverse pass back to
the left side of the field: He is also
a good runner with lots of speed
and drive, to

him

according sport
notices
At Wake Forest
At Wake Forest, Coach Peahead
Walker, Murray Greason, and Ellis
: a vi
Fysal and a small but spirited band
of Deacon grid hopefuls, have been

working long and hard getting

a ; ; : aj) | ference meet held last Saturday at -
The Davidson freshman football I Chapel Hill The Davidson “Be team. scored
o aa hate . : Sats t ‘
eam ended’ their season last Sat | The: University of North Caro-| a6 to 0 victory over Mars Hill Col
HEUeye . aie 5 rie Seon tina Tar Heels retained their team | lege last Saturday in a blinding
to tl offorc freshman | . ; : .
: ‘ Mt ee) ithe, while Washington & Lee} snow storm
Neither team scored until the | a : ; ; P
seis finished second Phe Wildcats’ only score came in
ist quarter, when the Wofford ‘ 1 ' : ‘ ,
ss F ; } Bill Hendrix, Carolina's fine dis-| the third quarter. A pass, Harrison
team scored two touchdowns in the | . 1
i Se Wott ; et i jtance runner, flashed over the) to Benfield, followed by a lateral
last five minutes of play to win by ; i Mee }
- : can ia PENA) yl Course in the splendid time of 25) to Hicks gained about 30 yards and
he sco oO 3 to 6, oe ° ; ' ‘1 Fy
: C e ot u }min., 35 seconds, to pace the fast) put the ‘Cats in pay dirt. A few
t the Start of the fourth quar- | ‘
p ae lol : D : ican obey | field His sophomore team-mate, plays later, Harrison took the ball
ter bol son, avidsols prom- | : .
: ; os Pied ine 1 ii Hardy, wound up in the second po-! through tackle on the weak side for
ne 19> pound back, t K the dal
: | i

sition, Hendrix’s time was only one

about six yards and a touchdown.

editor of The Atlanta Journal and a oR ria tl freshman
the two were discussing the sad : AAI Wot
plight of Sewanee. This little school jerat and won
is in a deplorable situation, hope- eee ae : 16-17, The
lessly out of place in the Southern Be rege: . Hf ee i "i a
Conference. Saturday after Satur- , ha F yo : : ; Wick Ee =
day its team battles bravely but aaa ine Bie ee
ineffectively against the superior OnO satan cunning
resources and ,man-power of the ; ATREAUA POAT ORT
“Big Thirteen” teams. |

n ut John Hay

cin time of 9:31.

“The schedules
‘to be restricted exclusively to con-
Each
have two games with ontside teams.
would enable

would not have

ference

teams. team could

Davidson, for in-
stance, to continue to play Duke
and North Carolina,
to continue ta maintain its relations
with Vandy, Birmingham Southern

and Howard to meet Auburn and

for Sewanee

a very third in
131.5. Smith was the only Wofford
int h before the first eight
David en came in, and he fin
t e be for a 9:35
Lemmon Surprises

Lemmon surprised everyone

ht David
1 the Davidson
following or
ler Norris Erb,
B ) Willia and Eldridge
Brow The rest of the Wotford
t follows: Marby,
Nirlele \\ id Lawrence.

ord team was handicap-

pec the fact that they had not
practiced for the meet,. nor were
| training. They ran a re-
li race despite this fact, and

ded highly.

»to be cx

Alabama, etc.” tes Heed Ae ie : HEROS
eadil ill during the season, and
Hard Luck, Boys they show great promise of becom-
The Cat harriers had quite a bit) 18 valuable varsity material in the
of tough luck in Chapel Hill last) Utne
Saturday. At the |

3 9-8

m his own 28 yard line arou his i ;
awn} 7 atid i. nd I 'S} second under the conference record, This ended the afternoon's scor-
vn left end for 72 yards a1 i . : : 1
: ; sa "| set by Morse of Duke in last year’s) ing, but the ball was on the Mars
; meet Hill four-yard stripe when the
Terriers Come Back | ei el : \
. Maine enaes
Phe Wotford frosh got the ball Walker Leads
1 the kick-off though and deter-| Boo Walker was Davidson's first Aerials Numerous
mined not to stop until they had/ man across the final marker, fin- Although the day was bitterly
crossedymthe goal. Bennett drop g in cighth position. Captain) cold and snow was continually fall-
png back to his 35 yard line hurled | Bruce Parcel finished a fine career ing, there was a good deal of pass-
£ § }
vy 25 yard pass to “Chink” Elias,| by running his best race of. the sea-| ing’ done by both teams. Davidson
e
l toon the Davidson 30) son to wind up in 13th place. Dave! was very successful in their air at-
‘ wn, The try) Woodward followed in 17th place, tack and Harrison and Hicks threw
i
for ¢ is 4h land the) Bill Telford in 28th, and Bob Kel-) a number of completed passes. In
Wot the score of } log, John Wilson, Joe Gammon, and} the fourth quarter the Lions of
Watt his they blocked) Dan Gilliam followed in, the thir-; Mars Hill filled the air with pig-
Oe Vs punts—on the | ties skins as they vainly tried-to-over
rd line, and this Kellog, Davidson's fine sopho- | come the six: point lead,
is scooped up the} more runner from New York, sui J. D. Hicks consistently outkick-
, and carried it to the Davidson | fered a bad. fall at the start of the ed the Lion booter but both aver
7, From there he made three plun-] race when he was pushed by a@/ ages were high. “Davidson had the
; ae i} | limo /
Kt ind carried the ball over for! rival, edge in rushing and Mars Hill nev
t} nal touchdown ‘of the ft ; A
he tinal touchdown of the after he meet ‘was one of the most} er seriously threatened the ‘Cat
1 n ‘
| a ; thrilling in the history of the al.
fennett and Elias look “speci
‘ee eee = : ceasambped at event several individual races Bentield at end, McLean at cen-
ally good in the backtield for the ( Pe F y
; developed at the finish; all of the) ter, Harrison at quarter, and Hicks |
Woftord teams or the Wildkittens ; 5 x pes) .
Tol j ih, Baie runners being closely bunched, y at full looked promising for the
ohnson, SndUifng alsle . : F
; ; ah dl Vhe past season was one of the! All-Americans.
starred - . °
most successful in the history of | oa,
the event at Davidson. Vhe team |
/ | : ; : we Lr €
6 t » ( 6 ll » | engaged in six meets, losing only Boote I S I lay
a men ra eC one, and that to the champion |} -
pa a, North Carolina team eee
Varsity wrestling practice will All of the boys are now looking The Davidson soccer team took
A; ° to ’ . »
begin next week under the super-| forward to next year, which holds | 0” the High Point Panthers on the
vision of Coach Parks Harrison! prospects of an even greater sea-| High Point field Tuesday, but as
Harrison hopes to turn out a fine| Son. Captain Bruce Parcell is lost| the paper goes to press the results |
team this year, built around a num-| through graduation, but  Schiltz,| are as yet not known, In the first |

ber of returning regulars.

Bobby Blue, “Skinny” Lowrance,
Leonard Fort, and Howard Me
Kayden are returning lettermen, A

number of strong reserves and new

| Green, and Hay up from the frosh
| are looked for to give fine support
to this year’s team. Coach Whittle
Jannounces that there will be a “B”

team next year t

yecause of the large

game of the year, the Pointers de-
feated the Wildcats, 3.to 0

\ game with Clemson College
scheduled to take place in the Win-

throp Bowl last Saturday was call-

race ‘a State runt DHS L

between Bob Kellog _ O

ington & Lee man, who were run- —

ning neck d neck. In doing so he Davidson High School ended one

ran into id knocked him! of the strangést seasons of the his-

dow: shaking him) tory of football when they dropped

up con This caused ) in 8-9 decisibn to the powerful

lose valuable time and may have Winthrop Training School eleven

cost the Davidson boys second! of Rock Hill 30th teams scored

place. touchdowns and safeties but crossed
The cross country aggregation | signals cost the Davidson boys a

has completed a remarkably suc-| Possible tie as they missed the point.

cessful season, having lost only one
meet that the Tar Heels,
who could make things hot for any

and to
team in the country. The only sen-
the Parcell
who has done a great job of -eap-
taining the squad.

jor on team 3ruce

1s

BRYANT GIVEN HONOR

(Continued from Page-1)

Monday and Tuesday, November
29 and 30, there will be a national
convention of Gamma Sigma Ep-
silon in Raleigh, N. C.* Professor
Theis, who holds the national of-
fice of Grand Keeper of the Kult,
and Marion Bryant, will attend.

game schedule
played tie engage-
ments, two with Newton, and one
each with Maiden, Huntersville, and
Senior Intra-
Three of these games

During the eight

the team five

College
Mural team.
were scoreless battles. During the

Davidson

|
season the team defeated Hunters-

ville, and lost to Maiden by identi-
cal scores, 13 to 0.

| In our plans for helping others,

|
| let’s not overwhelm those who,

must earn the money to pay the bill.

|
|
} A man never learns the real
| truth.about himself until he’s mar-
‘ried.

comers are expected to fill capably | squad and the great interest shown | ed off due to a misunderstanding
the positions left vacant by gradu-| in the sport this year. with the Clemson’ players

ation. of Capt. Parker. Charlie | The newly-organized sport of
Sears, and Lock Vass. Intramural| Every wife likes. to annoy her! soccer has proved of great interest
Wrestlers are expected to fill most | friends by boasting about the! to the college students this year,
of the vacant positions. The annual | Magniticent presents she gets from} with a large number of inexper-
tournament to find promising ma-| her husband; that is, if she ever! ienced but willing players report-

terial was held last week. ° gets any. ing for practice.

TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT
BOWLING!

On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out
to bowl. She’ll like that! Take her where she’ll feel
at home.

THE HEALTH

CENTER
12114 South Tryon

————

TRY. THE
SOUTHERN
5c & 10c Store

For Anything and THE CHARLOTTE

—AND—

Everything

P ; ready for the Turkey Day classic.
and ran it back 30 yards to give sees : y aay

; 1 ae Captain Boots Mumford, “as_ bril-
Kappa Sigma her only tally. The], : !
Pie : : ; liant a center as ever donned a
Phi Delts’ score came late in the i 3 i a ;
Wake Forest uniform,” according
game on a short basketball toss ov- s ‘ ; ;
to Wake Forest news bulletins, will
er center to the alert’ and elon- 7 ; i “1
is A wind up his grid career. First
gated Jack Lee, after a 15-yard 5 ;
rT | stringers McCarthy, Hoyle and
penalty gave them a first down on} 7 , S ery
. a ; yy, | Bryan will also play their last foot-
the Kappa Sig 1 yard line. The ball :
yall,

MSSM la TIC Coach Walker will stick to prac-
tically the same line-up Thursday
that has started for Wake Forest
in most of the games this fall. He
has using Fred Hoyle and

Cagers Ready
For Practice) tors sine ani: tayert rat

Hopes Ror Good- Season High E ans and Rupert Bryan at guards;
AeinivenliettermeantReraur Capt. Mumford, center; Dave Ful-
esait ler, quarterback; George Wirtz and
sill Eustler, halves Red Me-
Carthy, fullback.
Team Rested
Walker

needed

been

Davidson’s basketball ; and

squad have been holding intensive

varsity

practice sessions for the past week.
With the of lettermen
from last year’s team, the "Cats ex-

Coach his boys a

How-

gave
Saturday.

return five
much rest

pect to have a strong aggregation | &¥e™ they will return to intensive

on the hardwood this euason drill Monday afternoon, with
Heading the lettermen are Ned lighter workouts scheduled for

Iverson and J. D. ° Hieks, varsity Tuesday and Wednesday.

| regulars last year, Bill Kiesewetter,| Students on the Wake Forest

| John. Tice and Lawrence Reid, are | C#™Pus feel that the Deacons will

the other lettepmen. ° Jim Cowan, | UPS¢t the dope bucket when the

team meets the Wildcats Thursday
afternoon.

transfer from Mars Hill, is also ex-
pected to put up a battle for one

of the starting “positions. The first game of the year will

| From last year’s “B” team, Swede] be played on December 13, when
| Johnson and Dan Iverson, are] the quint will meet the College of
standouts, while Benny Harrison,| Charleston from Charleston, §. C.,
and Jim Thomas up from last} here. The team will make a-north-

frosh five are fighting it] ern trip during the Christmas holi-

| out for a place on the squad, days.

}

| ;
| year’s
|

|

|

|

Certainly, We Like You!

ALL Davidsonians ought to know, by this time, of the pride

|
|
|
|
|

we feel in considering ourselves “Charlotte headquarters”

for Davidson men.

Even if you never come into The Tavern or the Main

Dining Room (do you suppose there are any Davidsonians who
never do?) we're glad to see you in the Lobby, meeting a

date or telephoning, or just dropping in when you're in town.

We want Davidson men to know that we like ’em, and

we're always trying to do the things that'll persuade them

to lige, us.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE

Ea
FAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
- - Sporting Goods - -
415 South Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.
ce *

o

