Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, MAY 19, 1937

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1936 Member 1937
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributors of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
* ~~ Charlotte. North Carolina

iS

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING DY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
Colleges Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New Yorn. N.Y.
Cwrcaco + BOSTON ~ SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES PORTLAND - SEATTLE

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

Editor-in-Chief
.-_Business Manager

DICK VOWLES
R. H, ROBINSON

Ovid Bell -Managing Editor
Joe TCalvin Managing Editor
Wesley Coghill fanaging Editor
Terrell Porter 22. Lanaging Editor
Perry Sloan .. fanaging Editor
Bil Margues< Sports Editor
Owen Cooke sociate Editor
Sam.) Cothrar «Associate Editor
KBuclid Fate -_., Associate. Editor
Hector McGeachy ssociate Editor
Vates Parson so eaedeeeee ee sociate Editor
San Ryburn ~-.-Art Editor

Mlenry Raker ance ee enn n nese ee nen ee ween nee’ Copy Reader

BUSINESS STAFF

Wilson Lowrancé 22.00 cee tenn eben eee Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler .. Cieculation Manager
Charles Moore ....----0+----- -Collection Manager
J. M. Hall... -Advertising Manageg,
J. yp. Wh Asst. Business Manager’

The great essentials of happiness’ are some-
thing to do, something to love, and something to
hope for.—Dr. Chalmers.

DAVIDSON CENTENNIAL . .. Coelebyation

oi the 100th anniversary of the iounding
of Davidson Coliege wiil be an event of wide
interest among the former students and
itiends of this institution as well as in church
citeles generally throughout the South. the
Presbyterian Church in pariculac. .
Davidson College has a record taat is set
like a sparkiing gem in the history of Chris-
tian edueation in Ameri¢a. From smaii and
obseure beginnings, it has come to take’ tts
place among the foremost institutions of its
regimen in America, yielding to none in sound-
ness of teaching and depth ot scholarship.
Davidson, century-old that it is, continues
iresh and buoyant and contemporaneous.

It has not allowed age to dim its luster nor
to lay the dead hand of the past upon its liv-
ing heart of the present. ~

It is up with the time in every phase of edu-
cational life that ministers to a well-rounded
and complete development of manhood, physi-
‘cal, mental, and moral.

And being an iinstitution that continues to
have its face fixed upon higher reaches in the
future and broader horizons and = greater
achievements, Davidson has _ iscorporated
along with the basie curricula of other days
whatever is required in this regard to keep it-
self in tune with modern demands.

jt has its so-ealled fndls, whatever those.

are, bus i knows where to put and to keep
them- in 2 plaee of secondary and com.ribut-
ing imporiance. It has neither run wild with
the speculations of the new knowledge nor
with the jazz tempo of the educational friv-
olities.

Davidson vet lays the emphasis where the
emphasis “was first laid by the Founding
lathers of the educational regime in America.

Tt insists that 2 college is a plaee for men
to fit themselves adequately for their carcers
and while its curriculum is designed to expand
mental outtooks and to deepen intellectual
pereeption and to sharpen the edge of the wits
of man, the higher’ moralities and spiritual ele-
ments in human life are not forgotten.

\ndeed, they are magnified, as they should
be in every Christian institution of higher
learning and, if we may say so, as should be
far more emphasized than they are in every
state-supported institution of the same sort.

The development of personal quality of life
is its larger objective.

Davidson College is ready to celebrate its
Centennial in a-spirit of girding up its loins

-and-arming itself for enlarged services during
athe century ahead. .

It is ably administered: its faculty is com-
posed of Christian scholars; its curriculum
ranks with the highest; its equipment is well-
planned if not wholly adequate for its days
ahead; its endowment is measurably sufficient
for the status to which it has attained, but
with the hold the college has taken in the
imaginations of the public and in the affec-
tions of the people of the Presbytérian faith,
there is no reason that Davidson should falter
in, its expectation of such philanthropies in
the future as will enable the institution to
keep step with its enlarged opportunities for
educational ministry—The Charlotte Observer.

sy a

EDITORIAL STAFF 4
en y

STOLEN THUNDER

Faculty Facts...

‘professor ts one who casts imitation
pearls before real swine... A dean is not
smart enough to be a prdfessor and too smart
to be @ president .. . A president is not good
enough to de a professor and too good. to be
a dean... But the professor who conies in

10 minutes late is rare--in fact he’s in a class
by himseli.

* na «

To the Wall-Flowers ...

Those who speak volumes usually end up
on the shelf About the only thing that
can lay down on the job and get results is a
hen Not that it’s important, but there
was the cannibals daughter who liked boys
best when Uhey were stewed. :

* * * *
Family Medicine Chest? . .

Kings and Queens are great and Strong.

Earls and lords are poweriul, still,

lsut laying all jacks and jokes aside—

There's nothing potent as a pill.
” * * ” *

They Say...
~ Great blutts from little study grow JA

ripe old age is nothing to brag about . .. con-
sider the tomato.

LETTERS ON

FROM THE PRESIDENT OF
DAVIDSON COLLEGE ...

The members of the faculty and the student body

are to have the rare privilege of acting as hosts dur-»

ing the Centennial Celebration. The indications are
that there will be a record attendance. In fact. the
Prospects are that we will be taxed to-the fimit “and
beyond to provide even shelter and food jor all who
‘come. Itis well for us-to Keep in mind thatthose
who come will be iriends of Davidson. There is no
other reason for their coming. Many of them will
be Alumni who. love Davidson with real devotion.

This is a time when students and faculty should
exercise to the tail the fine courtesy and hospitality
tor which Davidson has always been noted. Those
of us who have homes should throw them wide open
to thase who are coming to the Centennial as guests
ol she College. olf members of the faculty find 4t
necessary to sleep in their attics while visitérs occupy
thre most comfortable rooms in their homes, they
shéuld go to their atties rejoicing that they have the
privilege ot rendering this service to our guests and
at the same time to the College. If students are called
upon to shift their rooms and to crowd up a little
they should do it cheerfully, counting it a_ privilege
to show this courtesy and hospitality to Alumni who
love the College enough to come hundreds of tiles
in order to have a part in the Centennial.

In the last analysis, the College is not judged so
much by its grounds and buildings and equipment
as by the character and courtesy of its faculty and
students. .We are to have the privilege and honor
of doing something that nobody ever did before and
that nobody now living will ever do again, and that
is to celebrate a Davidson College Centennial. Para-
phrasing the words of Napoleon, a hundred years
are looking down on us. Let us try to rise to the
occasion with that nobility that the friends of Dav-
idson have a right to expect of her students and
iaculty -WALTBR L. LINGLE.

+. * * © €

FROM THE TREASURER OF
DAVIDSON COLLEGE ...

There will be more visitors on the campus during
the approaching commencement possibly than for
any other year in the history of the College. There
will also be more students here than usual. As the
students mingle with various visitors, I would have
them remember thai the opinion of the College that
the stranger gets from the students is a mostdefinite
and lasting one. .

My observation has been that the “Old Grads” that
come back delight in telling twice-told tales of the
pranks that probably never happened. Students also
are liable to fall into the habit of telling tales which
too may be cxaggerated. Good stories. of course.
need not be withheld, such as the one about the

Freshman who on Bible examination stated that-the-

Epistles were the wives of the Apostles. A minister,
a Davidson alumnus, said in an open discussion group
last commencement, that it was his observation that
students returning to their homes from non-church
related colleges had a more vital religion than stu-
dents from the denominational colleges. He miist
have had some reason for forming an opinion of this
kind. Is his opinidia-cortect one or has he been mis-
informed ?

My suggestion to, the students for the aproaching
commencement period is that they be alert to help
entertain guests of the college in every possible way
and that in their discussions; with the alumni and
others they try to properly interpret the work and
aims of- the College. Personally, [ like to speak a
good word for our faculty, to mention our chapter
of Phi Beta Kappa, to speak of the high ratings that
Davidson has been given by the regional and, na-
tional rating agencies. The bulletin sent out to Fresh-
men this year and last year entitled “Choosing Your
College” has some good talking points. We can
have pride in certain equipment on our campus and
the ‘way it is maintained and we certainly know of
some very pressing needs. There is much to be
proud of in the personality, character, conduct, and
campus spirit of Davidson students, if we are not.
‘too. close to these things to see the virtues that are
there. h,

With such matters as subjects for conversation
there will be left very little time for stories about
putting cows in the class rooms or about stealing
chickens. During the commpncement we shall all
have many opportunities to interpret the College
to eager listeners. Can we truly say that a good

CAMPUS CAMERA

18
Commencenent °°

"€0,000,000

N DiReor EXPENSES !

i HE CLASS OF 1957 - 150.000 STRONG - WILL START TO EARN

29 BILLION DOLLARS

~N JUNE! EACH GRADUATE WILL EARN APPROXIMATELY 4194, 000

BEFORE RETIRING OF OLD AGE IN 1977

name is to be chosen rather than great riches? Pos-

sibly we can have both.—l. L. JACKSON,
* x * * *

FROM THE ALUMNI SECRETARY

The wdcome that awaits you alumni of: Davidson
during the Centennial celebration, June 6, 7, and 8
will be alt the more generous and genuine because
it has been years in the making.

Vor a” jong time your alma mater has been look-

ing forward with pleasurable excitement to this
crowning event of-a-hundred successiul years; espe-

cially during the present college years have many
energies and untiring thought. been turned toward
thase June days when Davidson's large family will

be gathered back into the charmed circle on the
campus.
June, brings rare days as we all know. But no

June, no commencement season that Davidson has
ever experienced has been $0 significant as those
days that will soon be filled with happiness’ for thou-
sands who are expected to comerherce.

Davidson .is ready to welcome you all—alumni and
friends alike. There will be a program designed to
interest everyone. The welcome sign will be hung
out all over the campus. Old friends will meet again
and recall with glowing pride those hallowed days of

yore. Old memories will burn again. New friends
will be made.
Many alumni are expected to arrive Saturday,

June 5, for the three-day program that officially be-
gins the following day. On Saturday the executive
committee of the Alumni Association and the Alumni
Council will meet. On Stmday Dr. Harris E. Kirk,
noted Presbyterian minister of Baltimore, wilt de-
liver the baccalaureate sermon. That afternoon there
will be a band concert on the campus and that eve-
ning Dean Christian Gauss of Princeton University
will deliver an address.

Greetings will be brought from many colleges and
universities Monday, June 7, at the morning program.
Dr. William) Joseph) Martin, president emeritus of
Davidson, will speak. The annual alumni luncheon
will be held out-of-doors on the campus at noon and
at 3 o'clock all classes will have reunions in Chambers
building classrooms. The central entertainment fea-
ture of the Centennial will be the pageant ‘to be pro-
duced on “Richardson field that evening at 8:15
o'clock. Reserved seats can be bought now by ap-
plying to M. W. McGill of the college. This pageant
promises to eclipse anything of a similar nature ever
attempted in this section.

On Tuesday, June 8, the final day of the celebration.
graduation exercises will be held. Dr. Gordon Jen-
nings Laing of the University of Chicago will be the
speaker. After that come the traditional lowering of
the class flag and the singing of “College Ties.” ~~

Davidson's students are expected to stay here 100
per cent strong for this celebration. It is theirs,
for they make up the college and the Centennial
would not be complete ‘without them.' Té them the
Alumni Association extends greetings with the sin-
cere hope that they will be here in full force for this
biggest birthday party in Davidson's history.- -CON-
RAD FREDERICK SMITH;

oe (& & ee 8

FROM THE PAGEANT DIRECTOR ...

My job of pageant-master always entails many
duties; at Davidson these duties have developed into
unusual privileges and pleasant associations. For
that part.of my job which involved the research and

writing of the Centennial Pageant gave me the great"

privilege of becoming thoroughly acquainted with
a consecrated-idea—the Davidson idea; of sensing its
reason, of feeling relief at its birth, of watching
breathlessly its growth, of sympathizing with it] in
its struggles, of feeling great satisfaction at its fruit-
ion, and of cheering at its coming of age. ~

And in organizing and rehearsing the pageant, I
have had the great pléasure of coming into working
contact with the faculty and students, who are the
banner-bearers of the ‘Davidson idea today, those who
maintain in such gentlemanly fashion the maturity
of that idea.

Those privileges and associations are such to lead
me to hope 1 may soon meet up again with these stu-
dents and faculty, and the Davidson idea, individ-
ually and collectively THEODORE VIEHMAN.

ee te & *
FROM THE CENTENNIAL
CAMPAIGN MANAGER ...

Men of Davidsor College are co-operating ninety-

six per cent in the movement to build a Greater

reel dope

DAVIDSON THEATER

Wed.-Thur. May 19-20
THE WOMAN I LOVE
A.story of stolen love in a thun-

dering war drama. Two thrilling
stars, Miriam Hopkins and Paul
Muni, are-hurled into each other's

arms by a Hell of hate around them
and.a Heaven of forbidden dreains
in their hearts. '
o¢ ¢
Friday, May 21 =
THEY GAVE HIM A GUN
Spencer Tracy, Gladys George,
aud Franchot Tone in a thrilling
love story on the battle front. This
is one of the best war pictures of
the year, and — closely resembles
“The Big -Parade:*——- 9-—-———
o hd o
Saturday, May 2.
GIRL FROM SCOTLAND YARD
Karen Morley, Robert Baldwin,
and Katherin Alexander in a story
ot a strange death ray that will
give you mystery in the air as well
as on the ground.
e¢°¢°¢ ¢
Monday, May 24
A STAR IS BORN
Janet Gaynor and Fredrick
March in one of the latest Holly-
wood productions. See this picture
and find out for yourself how a
girl secks fame in the movies.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE'S. CENTENNIAL

“Davidson College for a “Greater Second Century of
Service.” Ninety-five- subscribers have contributed
more than 33,000 to help Davidson, in her Centen-
nial Movement, erect new buildings which she so vit-
ally needs. To date only the men of Georgia Dormi-
tory and North and South Barracks have been given
the opportunity, generally, to make their subscrip-
tions, though a few have come in from Rumple, East
and the Eagle’s Nest.

— Georgia, Dormitory with thirty-eight. subscribers
has given a total of $1,598. while North and South
Barracks with 44 subscribers have contributed: $1,358.

Davidson College after a century of splendid serv-
ice to the natiou and particularly to the South is now
ceugaged in increasing her material resources to mect
the needs of her second century. Her students are
responding in true “Davidson Fashion” and with
thy, well known Davidson Spirit. There is no more
permanent nore more profitable investman a man
can make than in an educational institution of Dav-
idson’s calibre. Her ideals of Christian Character
and her high educational standards have yielded, and
will continue to yield, rich dividends. Surely every
Davidson Man wants to have a part in perpetuating
amd improving the work of Davidson College —
MALCOLM LOCKHART, JR.

*~_ *+ ££ 8 *

FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE <
CENTENNIAL CLASS... y

I have a few words which I wish to direct mainly

to the Seniors. Slightly less than three weeks from

stoday, we shall be gathered in circular fashion around
the flag pole. As we sing together the last few
lines of “College Ties Will Ne’er-Be -Broken.” our
class numerals will be lowered, and detached from

the pole. Then with a rush of comprehension, many
ot us will realize what very likely will never have
occurred to us before—our four years together are
at an end. Almost immediately after this flag-low-
ering ceremony, there will be a rush to turn in caps
and gowns, to gct our baggage ready and thrown
into family cars, and then off with our folks. It is
over. Our college carcer is finished. And for the
first time, with almost sickening suddenness, we
will realize what that means,

So I think it appropriate to give ‘a bit of advanced
warning this year, so that we shall have ample op-
portunity to think through several important things
between now and that eventful day.

First, the significance of our college friendships
deserves some consideration. Many of us will part
never to meet again; others. to mect rarely even
though we may have been the best of friends here
in college. A rather startling thought perhaps, but
one that will undoubtedly be true, at least to some
extent.”’So I suggest that we make the most of the
remaining days to cement the bonds of friendship
even firmer than they have been cemented, so that
time and distance will not weaken them.

Along this same line, I urge that during these last
few days, alt old grudges be discarded; that you go
to that person whom you've had cause to dislike,
and Iet him know that you feel kindly toward him.

Next. L suggest that we use a few of our spare
moments in forming some definite resolves about our
religious habits. .We might be repaid if we took
stock of ourselves, to sce whether or not we wish to
continue some of these habits we have fallen -into.
For example, going to the compulsory Vespers in
the evening has furnished a convenient excuse to
many of us to sleep through Sunday School and
Church in the morning. These two services in most
churches are the most important ones of the day, and
the most helpful ones, so I urge you, if you have
slipped in this respect to mend your habits immed-
iately after graduation.

If you have discontinued your prayer life and your
daily private devotionals because of the distractions
of dormitory life, I appeal to you to begin even to-
day and rectify this serious omission. , '

And with this one final thought, I close. On the
whole, college life at Davidson has presented only
a few of the temptations with which we shal! be con-
fronted in real life. It has been a comparatively
sheltered existence. Our fight against the worldly
evils has scarcely begun. We should begin immed-
iately, if we have not already done so, to fortify our-
selves in Christ’s strength to meet them—WADE
BOGGS.

SWEEPING

‘CAMPUS

By AL CADE .,

Once there was a patriarch nam-
ed David. He was a centenarian
but the vigor of youth coursed
through his veins for his life had
been given to Youth. His repu-
tation for integrity of character,
development of intellect, and un-
conquerable spirit was known and
respected throughout the land.
“Now David had lived the life of
a Christian gentleman, contribut-
ing immeasurably to the commun-
ity in goods and services. His sons,
of whom there were many, had
gone out from his bosom to estab-
lish reputations for themselves;
thus reflecting glory upon their
father, the venerable David. The
patriarch, although his life Had
been long and eventful, was really
just beginning an cra of progress

.and service, for his one-hundredth

anniversary was the first of many
to come.

David's home, once adequate, was
beginning to-fall into decay and
becoming too antiquated and con-
stricting for his ever-increasing
tamily of sturdy, ambitious sons.
He began casting about for a means
of supplementing the accommoda-
tions of his household, for an in-
come which had formerly supplied
his needs was incapable of bearing
this additional burden.

Now David was sorely troubled
and in a quandary as to how he
should be able to replace his inade-
quate and = antiquated buildings,
and continue progressing in his
commendable and essential work.

But the wrinkles of worry were
soon erased from his brow, for the
sons whom he had nurtured and
sent out into the world heard of
his problem and, in their “oyalty.
and devotion, assisted the patriarch
in his great work with gifts both
large and small; for each wanted ©
a part in the enterprise to the ex-
tent of his ability.

And David rejoiced and was ex-
ceedingly glad and his Centennial
was one to be remembered for
years to come, And his great work
increased in quality and magnitude,
a living and immortal monument to
those sons and friends who had,
through their unselfish giving,
made it possible to continue.

HOEY WILL BE HONORED

(Continued from Page 1)
dent emeritus of Davidson; Dr.
Henry Louis Smith; Rev. Harris E.
Kirk, D.D., of Baltiinore, Maryland,
pastor of Franklin Street Presby-
terian Church: Rev. J. C. Massey,
D.D., Hampden Sydney, Va., pro-
fessor. of Bible, Hampden-Sydney
College,__

Doctor—of literature:
Carmichael,
Theological
Ga.; Rev.

Rev. P. H.
professor in Columbia
Seminary, Decatur,

L. J. Sherrill, dean of

‘Presbyterian Theological Seminary,

Louisville, Ky.; Rev. W. T. Thomp-
son, D.D., professor of religious
education, Union Theological Sem-
inary, Richmond, Va.

Doctor of sciences: Dr. G. H.
Cartledge, professor of chemistry,
University of Buffalo, N. Y.; Dr.
Fred W. Rankin, ‘Lexington, Ky.;
Lieut.-Col: James S. Simmons, M.
D.. Boston, Mass.

Doctor of pedagogy; Dean M. W.
Brown, Presbyterian College, Clin-
ton, S.C.

Doctor of Divinity: Rev. Frank
F. Baker, president of Gammon
Institute, Lavras, Rrazil; Rev. W.
M. Elliott, pastor of Druid Hills
Presbyterian Church. Atianta,Ga.:_
Rev. Joseph K. Hall, pastor of
Goshen Presbyterian Church, Bel-
mont; Rev. John R. Hay, pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church,
Hickory, N. C.; and Rev. John A.
Redhead, Jr., Charlotte.

SELF GOVERNMENT

(Continued from Page 1)
rebelled and eventually struck
against the rigid new administra-
tion.

At other times during the history
of the college the Literary Socie-
ties, one time ruling factions on the
campus, petitioned the faculty to al-
low them to run their own socie-
ties and to mete out justice as they
saw fit; this system was not with-
out its advantages,

It is evident that the publicized
and efficient student government is
not a success due merely to chance
but that it is in reality a material
expression of a feeling and a spirit
which has existed from the begin-
ning of Davidson,
