WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1937

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Five

Chapman Writes Again
From European Towns

Tells of Interesting Visits to
Milan, Rome, Florence and
Lerici

VACATIONING IN ITALY

Invites Davidson Students to
Visit Him At Oxford

(This is (hewaecen second of a series of
articles Written by Carleton B. Chap-
man, '36, Rhodes Scholar at Oxford
University. This letter was written
from Italy where he spent his vaca
tion recently),

At present I am enjoying a
vacation in Italy. The town of
Lerici is not on most maps, but
it is quite near the important
Italian Naval base, La Spezia,
‘which may be located in the
north of Italy a little south of
Genoa.

Lerici is a mile from the village
of San Terenzo,
Shelley often and from
which he set out on a voyage from
which he never returned. His small
sailboat, I am told, was swamped
in a squall down the coast, and his
body was washed up several days
later at Liverne, a few miles south
of the famous university city, Pisa.
The poet Byron, according to fairly
reliable information, swam across
the gulf of Spezia from San Ter-
enzo to Port Venere, an old Roman
seaport. Forsaking Lerici and my
books for Christmas,

where the poet
visited,

I went down
to Rome with a fellow medical stu-
dent. We found the trains unbeliev-
ably crowded, and Rome even more
crowded. Nevertheless, the trip was
a most interesting one, and settled
in my mind the belief that Rome,
Milan, and Florence are the most
interesting and delightful cities in
Europe. To the European travy-
eler, I heartily recommend includ-
ing these Italian cities in his itin-
ery, even ‘though it may mean the
sacrificing of visits elsewhere.

Invitation Extended

The mention of European travel-
ers brings to my mind the possi-
bility that a very fortunate few
members of the Davidson student
body may be contemplating coming
abroad in the summer. To those
who are making such plans, I es-
pecially direct a plea that they in-
clude a stopover in Oxford at least
of “suificient duration to permit
them to join me in the worthy Eng-
lish custom of tea. A few days in
Oxford would, needless-to-say, be
well spent. My summer vacation,
beginning about July first, will be
spent in part at least in Oxford,
since there is much dissecting work
to. be done in the vacation which
can best be done at Oxford. I ex-
tend ‘my invitation not only to the
members of the three upper classes

HELPS PREVENT
MANY COLDS

Especially designed
aid for nose and
upper throat, where
most colds start.

a: Regular Size....30¢
Double Quontity 50¢

DAVIDSON GRADUATES
RECEIVE FELLOWSHIPS

Four Men at Union Seminary
Are Honored By
Awards

Four Davidson College grad-
uates were among the five Un-
ion Theological Seminary stu-
dents who this week received
the coveted fellowships that
provide an additional year of
ministerial studies at home and

abroad. The Davidson men
were:
William B. Ward, class of 1933,

who received the Salem Fellowship
for home or foreign study; Samuel
S. Wiley, '32, the Walter W. Moore
Fellowship, for
eign Benjamin F. Brown,
'29, the Thomas Cary Johnson Fel-
lowship for study at Union Theo-

also home or for-

study;

logical Seminary; and Charles M.
Pratt, '30, the Charles D. Larus
Fellowship for Union Seminary
study,

Ward, who is president of the
seminary’s student body, is a na-
tive of Timmonsville, S.C. At Dav-

idson he was a member of Eta Sig-
ma Phi, Delta Pi Kappa, the Eu-

menean Literary Society, and the
International Relations Club
Wiley, who for two years was

of the Davidson
is a native of Salis-
He has been outstanding in
young people’s work in North Car-
olina.

At Davidson Wiley was
ber of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa.
Salutatorian of his class.

general secretary
WM AY
bury.

and
He was also
Last June |
stant pastor of the
Church of
Va., a positon he now

became assi
Presbyterian
Petersburg,
holds.
Brown is a native of the Steele
Creek Community, near Charlotte.
He was active in religious work at
was a student assistant in

he

Second

Davidson,
Political Science, and was a mem-
ber of the Spanish Club.

Pratt was editor of Quips and
Cranks his senior year at David-
son, was a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, Delta Theta Chi, Del-
ta Pi Kappa, and Sigma Upsilon.
He is a native of Athens, Ga.

The “Committee for the Preser-
vation of Tradition at St. Mary’s
University” proclaimed recently
that shaves, haircuts, baths and
any other similar marks of civiliza-
tion would be outlawed during ex-

am _ week.

but to the members of the
freshman class, very few of whom
I have had the pleasure of mecting.

I hope again to have the pleasure
of writing to the Davidsonian, and
thank the editor for extending to
me this opportunity. I look for-
ward each week to its arrival, and
believe that there is no reader. who

also

, ‘ zoes through it e thoroughly
VICKS VA‘TRO-NOL aes : hnrough it more
—VISIT—

White Drug Company

For Prompt and Efficient Service
Magazines - Fountain Pens - Toilet Articles
“Davidson’s Oldest and Best”

“LET’S GET

HANES

AND STAY HOME
THIS WINTER!”

P. H. Hanes & Company

a mem- |},

BUILDINGS CITED FCR DESIGNS

DAVIDSON LITERARY HALLS CALLED EXAMPLES OF
EARLY AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE.—The Eumenean Literary
Society Hall (left) and the Philanthropic Literary Society Hall were
recently selected by architects of the Historical
survey as outstanding examples of early American architecture.
Woodrow Wilson (inset), war-time President of the United States,

made his first public speech before the Eumenean Literary Society
as a freshman here.

American Building

VESPER PROGRAMS OF
NEW MONTH RELEASED

“Genial Jan’ Impressed
By Davidson Students

LOCAL LAUNDRY
1) UP-TO-DATE

Three and a Half Tons Per
Week Includes More Shirts
Than Socks

Did know that the
Davidson man wears just
as many
shirts ?

A recent checkup by Mr.
Hambrick, the
laundry, that
down
laundry

you average,
one- half
pairs of socks as he does
W. B.
David-
the
about

manager of
son shows stu-
600

per week,
7.000 pounds.
strong
all that. each
re six shirts and three pairs

The Davidson man chan-
sheets, pillow

dent body sends
bundles
amounting
It takes a
class_ to

bundle a

of
to about
pretty
handle

freshman
In

of socks,
ges
pajamas once

his and
and uses
that

you

cases,
week
during

each
five handkerchiefs
time. How does the bag that
Monday
with that?

Davidson Laundry is a mem-
the Laundry Owners’ Na-
Association gets the

new ideas conceived

send down every morning
compare
The
ber of
tional and
benefit of
by that

washing

any

body in connection with

and cleaning. It is equip-

ped to handle anything from the
diapers that some of the pledges
will have to wear during Hell

Week to your overcoats
Believe It Or Not

Midwinter’s Band Band ‘Leader Pre-
fers Playing For College
Dances

IS NATIVE TAR HEEL

Popular Maestro Is Now on
Southern Tour

By OVID BELL

“Davidson students show a
wonderful spirit,” said Jan
Garber while he took a few

minutes off from his work with
the orchestra last Saturday af-
ternoon at the Mid-Winters
tea dance. “I’ve never seen
anything quite like it.”

Much impressed by the warm re-

ception of the Davidson student
body, “Genial Jan” told that he pre-
ferred to play for college parties
because he had a better opportunity
to get acquainted with his audi-
ence

Talking along as he gave his au-

tograph to all comers,
that
Rudy

he explained
took over
Rudisill’s orchestra and that
of the his (Gar-
) original organization

four years ago he

none members of

ber’s are in-

cluded in his troupe today.
Plans College Tour
asked
he
had not gotten that

When
the
he

about his. plans for
smiled and said that
“Next
in Chicago. May-
Who knows?” He
continued, however, to tell about
the of his After com-
pleting his engagement here, he had
in Asheville to play
From A

future,
far.
winter I may be
New York

he

rest tour,
an engagement

Monday night. sheville he

Here’s one that most of you won't | Will journey to Lexington, Va.; to
petioe Beale believe. Your clothes will last} be at the Mid-Winters dances at
Concert of Sacred Music Plan-} longer if treated at the college V. M. L., and then go to Gainesville,
ned For March 14 laundry than if washed at home.| Fla. for the University’s Military
2 Here is what) happens to your] Ball, On March 8 he and his or-
The out of town ministers who laundry from the time that vou] chestra open for a month’s engage-
will be guest speakers at the Y.| throw it to some hapless freshman | ment in Miami,
M. C. A. Vesper Services ‘prior to| until it is returned to you: Each And then, remembering that the
the SHU ROVACAUOREGLS given below] piece is segregated and tagged to| show must go on, he started back
n order of their visits to Davidson. | jo put in strong clean net bags.]jo the stage. But he paused to add
Beta Theta Pi Thomas, Bennie Harrison, George ie wae o a ane Your pink silk underwear is put] that he was a native Corolinian ane
The weekly pledge meeting was|Ficklen, Bob Wood, and Jake Ja- at Bescidant poe tbe ate me in one bin, and blue pieces in an- had attended the Sonica I
held on last Wednesday night and] cobs. George Matthis was toast- fogical, Seminary in Richmond, Va SUIGT acuese: CWO COlOns are never iNorh . Scone Were Ie hen ©
at this meeting Saturday, February] master at a banquet held Friday will aan ninineee od eins speak. mixed Delta Sig.
20 was announced as date of for-| night) at = Thacker’s restaurant. er Oratheceerien ee Tabhiaes 28 Buches Soruito: ANObeD Bias
mal initiation, After the Friday} Among the alumni present were] Vit je pr. JH. Green ae acess cording to color. There are 26
afternoon tea dante, a banquet was} Tom Marchant, Walter Hunter, ikivavlbsia atte tt Seminary Gh De. classifications as to color, shade, T ROW YOUR
held at Hotel Charlotte with John] Buddy Newton, Grier Martin, and ana (ey < ae material, print or dye, and nature OTTERS AWAY
Winn as toastmaster. Several] Henry Eve. A feed was held at the On: Marche7 DraieRiGunninws of garment. In each net bag there
alumni and faculty members were] house after the Friday night dance. ey: Niel pea yaa will Rete is a tag with your number CH ity And write with Parker Quink
present, including Professor Fron- Kappa Sigma guest speaker, but on the following Pheyevare pur in @uwasher £ull7e) a
tis Johnson and wife. There was a The usual pledge meeting was S api Miz a Tae ifrerermiiche 8) warm, sudsy water. Round and a rich, bri
feed at the house Friday night-after] held Thursday night. A banquet np cise Ande aa Se round, cight times one way and See natalie :
the dance. Sunday night a pledge} was held in the Hotel Charlotte af- wuilichecdeuatenetorneuncned Aart eight times the other and the clothes
feed was held at the house. The] ter the tea dance on Friday. Gen- ithe (he: Gaetan hatoke the holi! are cle aned through and through.
chapter enjoyed having Bill Hobbs] ial Bancroft Mosely was toastmas- dave willcbethe Reve Ac le Carte This is done five times and then
as guest over the week-end. ter on this occasion. Several alumni] ikaneinedern, AWW) WA ; aie ciH there are five rinsings. . Over 50 SRRreG nnTeglentd acl ven anal enC
Pi Kappa Alpha attended thé banquet. A feed was} | paren een gallons of water are used on your left in a pgn by ordinary inks.
Eight new men were initiated in-| held Friday morning after othe pieee PG clothes each week! Parker
to the fraternity last Thursday] dante. Stuart Oglesby visited his Knox College will celebrate its Then the clothes are put ina Parl ce
night. The men who became broth-| home in Atlanta Satugday and Sun-| pundredth anniversary during the basket and whirled around some WU.
ers were: Charlie Akers, Jim An-| day. The chapter enjoyed having] founders’ Day program to be held | more until almost dry. Up to this
derson, George Coates, Durette Col-| George Ross as guest over the} quring this month. (Continued on Page 6) | Made by The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.
traine, Ellis. Wood Fisher, Glen] week-end.
Grier, Bill Stevenson, and Hugh Pi Kappa Phi e rae Ce aS
Willis. At this meeting officers of Kight new aoe initiated in- he: Ben) That MakespWritingia Eleasure si |
the fraternity were selected as:]to the chapter last Tuesday night | 10 A. M. 10 A. M.
Walt Dickson, president; Teeny] The members of the class of 1940 to 8 P. M. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY ONLY to8 P.M. J)
Lafferty, vice-president; Doug Neil,| who became brothers are: David Seer neta |
secretary, and Milton Crisp, treas-| Colvin, Robert Mann, David King, ° fe 5
urer, Ay banquet was held Friday] Julian Lokey, Harry Hendrick, Dick 59c This Certificate Is Worth $4.41 9c
night at Hotel Charlotte. Walt | Edwards, and Bill Boyce. C. B. This certificate and 59c entitles the bearer to one of ouf Genuine Indestructible $5.00 VACUUM
Dickson served as toastmastér on| Ivey, a sophomore, was also  for- FILLER SACKLESS FOUNTAIN PENS, Visible Iy« Supply, You SEE the ink. A lifetime guar
thier occdcicny ae Aion cthemaltinnil ane |v anitited: ArtensthemGature antee with each pen,-Sizes for ladies, men, boys and’ girls. This pen will not leak, blot or break
present were Jim Hodgin, Blanton] day afternoon dance, a banquet °
Little and Bill Archer was held at Thacker’s restaurant
Kappa Alpha with Joe Hunter as toastmaster. = :
After the Friday afternoon dance,}| Among the alumni present. were THE NEW PLUNGER FILLER—VACUUM ZIP—ONLY ONE PULL AND IT’S FULL
a banquet was held at Efird’s with] John Porterfield, Ben Wyche, and This PIN holds 200% more ink than any ordinary fountain pen on the market}-Yot-ean-Write-tor
John Anderson as toastmaster. The | Heath Howie. Colonel and = Mrs. Three Months on One Filling! No Repair Bills! No Lever Filler! No Pressure Bar; Every Pen-tested
+ ee . and guaranteed. to be unbreakable for life. Get yours NOW: THIS PEN GIVEN FREE if you can
brothers enjoyed an entertaining] Rhett and Dr. and Mrs. Vowles also buy one in the city for less than FIVE DOLLARS! This Certificate good only while advertising sale
talk by Dr. Hood. A feed was giv-] attended the banquet. An appropri- is on: *INTRODUCTORY OFFER—This Pen will be $5.00 after sale. Also $1.50 Pencils to Match
en at the house Friday  night.] ate parting gift was given “Doc’ || Above Pens, only 29c.
Among the visitors over the week-}| Newton. The chapter was pleased] |}} oe Hy
end were Ed Hancock of Bluefield,| with the presence of Lou Palmer, COLLEGE PHARMACY Prescriptions Daeed |
W. Va., and a member of Rho] Jan Garber’s drummer, at this time. ADD 6c Reliable LIMIT 3 |
chapter, University of South Car-] After the Friday night dance a feed Mentos | Davidson’s “Service Drug Store” | Bene te naen |
olina. was held at the house. 2 (Lams — — THE PEN BEAUTIFUL
Sigma Alpha Epsilon Phi Gamma Delta
informat fraternity initiation was The chapter held a banquet at the = eee
held last Monday night and formal] S. and W. Cafeteria after the Fri-]j/ ,
initiation on Wednesday night.| day afternoon tea dance. Fred :
Nine members of the class of 1940] Stair was toastmaster. Bill Bolin PATRONIZE D id
became brothers at this time. They] and Fred Staire went home after avi Son eatre e
are: Tom Crichten, Buck Powell,| the dances. John Bolin and Bob DAVIDSON’S ONLY
Jim Currie, Alderman McLean, Jim (Continued on Page 6) 5 and 10 : 2
3 *% The Best in Entertainment
/ ry
! : =
iS OU THERN ania :
COME CLOSER FOLKS—
O u r S lo a Nn 5 & 10c Store James Dunn as a Racketeer Salesman—with Marian Marsh
Gg Thursday, Feb. 18
l THE PLOUGH AND THE STARS—
Starring Barbara Stanwyck and Preston Foster
ok ff G 22 Friday, Feb. 19
Every Job a Good One DANGEROUS NUMBER—
MAAAAA CARS Robert Young and Ann Sothern in a Stirring Mystery
Saturday, Feb, 20
FOR RENT ALONG CAME LOVE—
Starring Irene Hervey and Charles Starrett
M. P. Henderson Monday-Tuesday, Feb, 22-23
etinE ON THE AVENUE—
Standard Printing Company Dick Powell, Madeleine Carroll, Alice Faye, the Ritz Brothers
«GULF GAS & OIL Wednesday, Feb. 24
117 Garland Court Charlotte, N. C. & RAINBOW ON THE RIVER—
a2 Little Bobby Breen, with May Robson, Charles Butterworth
2 De !

