WEDNESDAY, NOV. 3, 18 =

Page Four

Bill Marquess

Sports Editor

THE DAVIDSONIAN
The Dope
Bucket

Sports Afield

a Davidson Kits

The chest of Felix swelled with pride Saturday as his jinx ‘ > ‘
ridden Wildcats came out of the slough of defeat to completely Conc uer I J.C:
outplay Furman and tame the Purple Hurricane down to a gentle eae

zephyr. But he uttered his loudest growl of approval in favor of By 39-0 Seore

Fred Dennis, the lad from Concord, who was mainly responsible for

PILLARS OF STRENGTH |Cats Topple Furman _
In Smashing Victory
On Richardson Field

the victory of the McEvermen.

Johnson, Wallin, Arnold, and

Picking table yarda through and aroundthe Furt A
Ane ele ere Jabs saat en Naas See nuemenania a! Snelling Star as Frosh EES nica?
Oe ecrae aaa enin an pei een : ena we Beat P. J. C. . “4
n, Fred inate t et vt t n re even “4 + sil;
Fre ee ee) er Fred Dennis Calls Brilliant Game as Davidson
hr m | ‘ yoand s ed a Furms ie Davidso ldkittens came | . °
fe tora tive yard: les ack strofig Friday’ withoa slashing | Unleashes Powerful Passing Attack Which
Playing quarterback, he called a flawless game and it was he 9-0) vakeitelin, over the Presbyterian Accounts For Final Score
who kept up the spirit of the 'Cats when the going was rough. He Junior College
was largely responsible for both ‘Cat scores. The play on which rhe Frosh completely Overs wee

Davidson High Ties Unleashing a passing attack
Big Newton Eleven that could not be stopped, and

Bill Davis made the first touchdown was meant to be a straight d the fighting Presbyterians

smash off tackle with Dennis carrying the ball, but when Fred got king 14 first downs to their op-

through the line he was trapped by hordes of men in Purple. Think ponents’ 7. In the first three min- - : : brilliant running by red Den-
ing fast, he lateralled to Davis, who went over the goal line un- utes of the game, Bob Johnson, It happened again: for the fourth nis, Davidson's Wildcats over-
molested. Y tellar fullback for the ‘Cats, in time in five games, Davidson High came a three point lead in the
It long, | e thousand-odd spectators, tercepted a pass intended for Wil- j has tied its opponents on the grid-) final quarter to whip a fasd
; ; | +n Bo acmor liams and galloped 60 yards for a iron, Counting a practice engage-| Furman team here Saturday

} ul play than t RDA dsonieccoeonds touEhdatn uchdown ment with the senior intra-mural by a score of 13 to 9.
Bill took the s1 it nter and cooly t himself to pass, pro- This set the Kittens’ spirit high team which ended ah GH) dead- With only six minutes left to play
t ihe bf ; Bere aiid CBOlit Tit ther aneantit B ‘il , and they made a_ sustained drive Two reasons why Davidson's opponents have not gained more lock, the team has tied five out of | the ‘Cats made a brilliant 70 yard
\" iy ' nares ive tiald the 35 yard line, which, wasd pyrene betta of a ak At sie gis reste ae usher six games linarch that did not stop until they
; ‘ j 1 I ' ‘ abaya and | chit ixed by Gene Vereen crashing more feo Concert: N. Cc. Hath thee ikea ure HRCA ka Milve In the last engagement Davidson had crossed the Furman goal line
\\ sane adet | in’ men, leaped high in the ait ver from the two yard line. shown up well this season. tied the Newton second team, 0-0.) with the winning score. Dhie
t hal ddwhethecaigekincand tallcovee tia: coal ait - winning points. Hemphill Scores Earlier in the season the two! march was studded with beauti-
teams had battled to a 6-6 tie fully executed passes heaved by

In the line Dave Warden covered himself with glory by break-

ing through to smear reverses and spinners time after time. Once,
after he had been tossed by big Dave about three straight times,
June Scott, Furman back, grabbed him by the shoulder and yelled
out to his team, ‘Who's man is this? For Pete's sake, somebody
block him!”

Have to hand it t t Purt in ! VSi et The lon't t en

wl n the v'r hh } \t | t ne dt Jn't Witl the cl ck ticking

f final seconds of the fracas and the ‘Cats in safe possession of both

pom! le ad ! tl i 1 f-tl i vs Trom oS uth Car lina

pick®4 himself off the grou ifter a play and said to Bill Johnston,
Pre tough for you I e, ain't it, buddy?”

Davidson will sorely miss Frank Purdy when he graduates next
spring. From his defensive position back of the line he can diagnose
those plays like nobody's business and was a fly in Furman’s soup
all afternoon. Like most teams, Furman used an unbalanced line,
strong to the right side. To meet this McEver “overshifted” the
Hurricane, making his left side even stronger than the enemy right.
This, of course, weakened the Davidson right and made it necessary
for the right end to crash straight for the ball-carrier to guard
against a cutback through tackle.

Using these tacti ble for the end to keep from

1 reception

According to Coach Spearman
Teeny Lafferty may be out for
the rest of the season with in-
juries. A tough break for both
‘him and the team. After playing

dc Dain Eesinen oon ane Cat Harriers Take First

other drive from their 45 yard line

h

hen Hemphill drove three yards
|

ich resulted in another six points
r the third score The game see-
iwed back and forth until the lat-
ter part of the quarter when John-
on raced over his right tackle’ for
fourteen yards and the fourth

re for the frosh

\iter several exchanges of punts

in the third period, Davidson drove

here Wallin) passed> to Vereen
r.the goal for the fifth touch-
dowt Again Davidson made 75
yard climaxed by a beautifully
executed lateral pass from Johnson
Nevin td Balsley

Late in the Tinal period Jolley,
ishyv Pies) Gs quarterback; re

1 _

turned Davidson's kickoff 57 yards

to the Kittens’ 23 There’ P.-J. C.
made a first down on the Davidson
12 The Davidson forward wall
stitfened at tl point and the ball

Went over to the Kittens on their

tt

own five, the game ending a féw
plays later.

Spreull-And Shore

Advance In Tourney

Four Advance

In Greek Ball

ball to-the visitors’ 17 yar ine rey
Ades CMEC ML: Phi Gams continued

inter-fraternity

Betas and won out, 12-0

n tor the second counter.

Hackney were
\bbot and Mazie. Hall shone for
~

exciting contest

Place in Meet at Macon

The Davidson cross country var-
sity kept their record clear Fri-

The Davidson téam outrushed the
visitors all afternoon, registering
six first downs.to the visitors three.
A series of bad-breaks. threatened
to give the game to Newton to-
ward the end of the second half, but
the little Wildcats stiffened on their
own fourteen to throw the invaders

day night as they defeated Auburn | back for seven yards’ loss in the

and Mercer Universities in a tri-
angular. meet at Macon Ga. The
race, which brought to five the
number of teams conquered by the
Wildeat harriers, was run* over a
three mile course during the halves
ot the Mercer homecoming game
between Mercer and Oglethorpe.
Boo Walker finished first in the

impressive ‘Cat victory with a time’

of 17:51, setting a new record
which bested the. former mark by

over two minttes. All seven men

on the Davidson team were clocked |

under the old record to place

among tl

e first thirteen of 21 en
tries Furner of Auburn came in
a close second, while Dave Wood-

ward placed third in 18 minutes.

; ies i
Captain Bruce Parcell took fifth}
place in, the large field of runners, |
iollowed by Bob Kellogg sixth and |

Bill Telford eighth. These men

next four plays

For Davidson Gibson's splendid
punting and passing and Fidler’s
receiving stood out, while the four
varsity regulars in the line-up were
best for the invaders. Davidson's
line held the Newton boys to a
net three yard gain from ground
plays

Davidson will meet Huntersville
immediately following drill on next
Friday, and the student body is urg-
ed to turn out and support the fu-
ture Wildcats

BAND PLAYS IN CONCERT

pater eve
(Continued from Page 1)

“The Red and Black,” and “O Dav-

dson.”

The officers of the band are:

Julian Helms, president; Gilbert

Palmer, vice-president; and Billy

i ,| Crooks, secretary.
completed Davidson's score of 23]

Dennis and Davis and received by
Williams and Iverson. With the
ball resting on Furman’'s 35 stripe,
Davis reeled off a 20 yard run to the
Furman 15. Davis then faded back7
and let loose a well-timed pass that
Bailey Williams snagged from two
Hurricane backs and fell across the

|pay line for the winning points.

Williams came back from his end
position to boot a placement
squarely between the uprights for
the extra point

Second Touchdown

Davidson's other touchdown
came in the second quarter after an
exchange of punts, Davis snagging
one of Scott's quick kicks ‘on his
own 35 marker and racing behind
excellent blocking 53 yards to the
Hurricane 12 yard stripe. Two line
plays failed to gain, then Dennis
raced to the five on an end play.
Here Dennis, apparently bottled up
on a line play, executed a_ well-
timed lateral to Davis, who momen-
tarily juggled the ball, then caught
it and plunged over for the score.
Warden's try for the extra point
was blocked.

(Continued on Page Eight)

in only three games, Teeny was The finals of the Freshman Fall

date the SPE’s won out over the | which nearly halved Auburn's to-|
|

Pikas in an overtime contest, 12-0./ tal of 39 and was a third of Mer
\iter the regulation time had gone. cer’s 68 tally |

being nominated by nationall nnis Pournament was postponed
g My

‘4 Hiueetoecdad nathercoonditie
famous coaches and sports writ- ‘" to adverse weather conditions.

coreless, Doty broke through to Dick Gammon ang John Wilson, |
The two. contestants, Dick Shore

ers for a berth on All-American eas block” a> punt and~MeDaniel cov-| Davidson reserves, placed tenth and |
and Miller Sproull, were halted by

selections, and now it looks as ° : “| ered over the goal for the SPE’s. thirteenth to increase substantially 5
if his brilliant career is to be cut| (UT SNOss and rain alter they had score, Tice added the second mark-. the scores of the other s¢hools. The
short in his senior year, McEver. ae uae er with a beautiful catch of Sam-) whole squad . remained together |
has other backs who are good, SU TO A inced to the finals by ple’s long pass into the end zone.) most of the race with Walker,
means of a 7-5, 6-1 victory over

plenty good, but there is only

lice, Sample, and Casali were best) Woodward, Parcell, and Kellogg in|
2

lack Spainhour. Previously Sproull

] }
had

one Teeny, and it may be a long
ad beaten Marshall Foote to

for the SPE's, while “Bull” Dur-| a foresome. Runniffg® at. night was

© Pmanat time before Davidson: sees an-

f h | tl | (Continued on Page 5) (Continued on Page 5)
. . . . yy cach lis yOSILIO . Ss
other one like him, Without him we have a good team, but with MODS rou ee, Ae

him have an excellent one. Wouldn't it be great if he recovered In the finals the courts were not

* : ~ : . ~ ; roy ] d off . ‘ " r
in time to show '’em some real stepping up in Cambridge? properly lined otf and the weather | |[j

!
1 1 1 W 1 ’ ond Ss re sO ror .
They can talk about Larry Kelly all they want to, but I've got to | «O° tons we poor that the

TODAY’S POPULAR SPORT
BOWLING!

vera : rit whole mat is » playe :
ee an end play better defensive ball than Bailey Williams did before I eM Gap to be played over.

believe it. Over and over a Hurricane play would start out toward Pe
Jailey’s end with three men in front of, the ball and not only «would

" F |
Williams take out the interference, but get-the runner also. His leader- Today and Tomorrow |

ship on the field is justifying his selection as captain and his name de Mysteries Are His Meat, But When |
He Tries to Solve This One... |
OH! GOODNESS...

SPELT TT TR,

|

|
On Saturday Nights—or any other night—take her out
to bowl. She'll like that! Take her where she'll feel |
at home. |
|

|

|

serves a place on the All-State team.

‘THE HEALTH THE CHARLOTTE
CENTER BOWLING CENTER

—AND—

|; 12114 South Tryon 112 W. First St.
Nunn-Bush eo aera aaa
Alnkke fashioned Oxfords | | |
You'll get double satisfaction from | | If |
Nunn-Bush shoes because Ankle- | reat yourse to ;
Fashioning will give you great- 2: : |
er comfort, evduring smartness AllSeats| 4 | f h
2e2'| SHE ASKED refreshment at ome
$8.50 Anytime FOR IT | ,
to LTS y |
WILLIAM GARDEN |
$13.50 LOIS HEYWARD |
Starts Friday That's a pretty obvious way of starting this
7 ON OUR STAGE e | style message . but really you will enjoy
} / Cascade of Hits this coat more than any you’ve ever worn.
ES \ LIN Another Swell Stage—Shaw You'll like the c pices : is pee Pd
fo fog Eee er entraacany, UKs the comfort of the “kick” sleeve
j Dencinee | ... the full extravagant length will delight
; 18—PEOPLE—18 you... and the full belt ... but why try to
} | tell you how you'll feel in “Kick-off,” when
—}|BRO ADWAY ——— you can have the grand sensation merely by
| dropping in and putting it on?
Rent A Car
for A woman remembered how this man would feel $29.50 & $32.50
; when he got home from work—soa frosty bottleof | |
i lomecoming ice-cold Coca-Cola was ready in the refrigerator.
Buy the handy six-bottle carton from your dealer.
EDGERTON SHOES—$5 TO $7 SIT t B
J. O. JONES, INC in re. | Bren eS:
e e y e |
~ 410 South Tryon Street Gulf Gas & Oil | College Shop ... Third Floor

