Page Two -

Che Mavidsonian

Founded By theClass of 1915

1937 Member 1938

Associated Collegiate Press

Distnbutor of
Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly "For a Ratter Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

. SUBSCRIPTION RATES .,
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING DY
_ l _National Advertising Service, Inc.
Coliese Pubusi bh

420 MADISON Ay_

resentative
ve YORK. N.Y

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina. under the act of March Jrd, t8o
BILL MARQUES. ttor-in-Chied

CHARL

s MOO

ise —Manager

|

No-Corsage Plan... )
Students at Carolina are voung to sec

just what the sentiment is on the question__

of giving corsages to girls when they go to
danees. The matter has been a controversial

one since it came up some wecks ago, and *

leaders of the ‘Ino corsage movement” pre-
dict an overwhelming victory.
_* They. base their arguments on many
sound prineiples. The cost of corsages for
.a single dance amounts to thousands of dol-
lars, which amount could rather be spent to
help students through school or ior otner
worthy purposes. Another reason for the
proposed move is that often Dboys pay more
ior flowers than they can really afford just
so that their dates, will look as well-dressed
as any on the floor.
’ The psychology of their thinking is sound.
If no corsages are ailowed on the dance
iloor, all the girls and their dates will be
on a more equal footing. and girls with the
cheaper tlowers will aot be shamed by those
with the more expensive ones. Advocates of -
the plan argue that by thus putting the girls

. ; AY, MAY ,
THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESD 18, 1938

Letters To The Editor

DEAR BILL:

The point system is
this campus as regards responsibility, |
change for the good. Instead of taking on as many offices as
he can, a senior will have to settle on a limited number (maybe
only one or two) and do them well. Bill Gardner told us to
“dwell deep.” [ believe thai applies to this situation. There
are certain jobs here which demand all of a man’s time-- there
are other jobs which should be given to the men who haven't
very much already so that they too can develop in leadership.
It’s been our attitude in the past to put ODK men in charge
of everything possible, although in most cases tise then al-
ready have a major office or so which should give them all the

j work they can adequately handle. While these men are won-
dering how they can possibly supervise all the things they have
charge of, other good men are being wasted—men with ideas
and talents if given a chance to produce.

Let’s change otir attitude — stop looking at the number of
jobs it’s possible to hold and start thinking in terms of re-
sponsibility and of the number of jobs you can do well. Then

DEAR BILL: .
: going to demand a changed attitude on

There is a need here at Davidson for a point system. Those
who are opposed to such here say that the decision should be
left to each man to accept only those offices which he can
efficiently Gl. Does a man in his Junior year know of the
time, the work, and sacrifices required of the various offices ?.
I do not &efeve he sces these facts in their true significance.

Each of my jour years at Davidson has contained some threc
or four men of the Senior Class who had each accepted more
offices that he could efficiendy handle. The direct result of
this condition is shown in many phases of college life but one
outstanding example is the decline of the honorary fraterni-
ties on the campus.

Those men outside any particular honorary fraternity have
no idea of that fraternity’s functions. Things may appear to
them to be progressing smoothly, when in reality there is stag-
nation in that group.

‘I do not intend to assert that this fact is true of every hon-
orary fraternity on the hill because we all know of the out-

but T believe it’ll be a

EDITORIAL STAFF standing work done by a few of them; few bein F = ; i ici t
Terrell Porter ...., EDITORIAL STAFF Editor | om an equal footing a lone stride toward § y a few of them; these few being led by | ve will notice an increased interest, value, and efficiency in
Jack Abernathy Editor q 8 g men who are very energetic im that particular ficld and men | cident Government, YMCA, publications, and on down the
rile Austin o22e. editor 93, H . + . . ‘
Jack “Iulland Etitor more iriendly relations between the dancers | who are not too occupied with other campus affairs. These line
Fy 1s: sditor aa Pf 7 . . . =
sam Srencer cE titor will be made. Resides. they say, think of | groups deserve merit and praise. They show what could be —SHERRARD RICE:
ase dito: i . so te . :
Ovid Hell . Editor all the money the poor college students will | done 16 all our honorary fraternities if we have the right men .
Wales Cox i ate Editor he, able to save! to lead them. se ee RF
Perry Sloan sociage Efitor fi this meets wish success at Carolina— This proposed point system affords the gréatest step in the AR BILL:
Walt Kunz... --Stafl Photographer } and reports show that it undoubtedly will— | directi i thi iti DEAR , ;
Da * : by d lik ‘ direction of this condition of betterment. ¢ . Since a number of misconceptions concerning the point system

BUSINESS STAFF Davidson might profit by doing likewise. : . : . : P °
Wesley Cosh) seeceerneeeneneeentnneCallection Mager ent p ) g T ask that each student give this point system his carcful| “\.y¢ arisen I think that some attempt should be made to straighten
Ohi Tart mer coe ene eee en cee e were rene eee e ee s Manager Q ~ . * .
Bi we rer Advertsing Manager attention. and when ne time for voting arrives, that he will things out. ;
Andy ‘Turner. ---Circulation Manager uphold his vote by sound reasoning. : f this plan is to give “honor” to
Terrell, Por: ..-Circulation, Manag: M think that one purpose of this plan 1s g
dereet may Crguncon Manager | From Campus To Campus MARTIN L. LAFFERTY. any

-Farewell...

A jew more days of classes. a brief period

_ Of CNaainations, and then the members o7

the class of 1938 wilt step from the com-

mencement platiorm tosretutn no more as
~ siudents. ‘

To say that they witl be missed is unnec-
essary at this time, but we who are Icit may
well, pause for a moments tribute to our
departing Seniors and the standards they
have let for us.
leadership in many lines of student endeavor

—= outstanding in athletics, scholarship, pub-
lieations, and a constructive program of
student government, the loss of such men
cannot be lightly turned aside.
Dut for them commencement,
name signifies. should mean only a begin-
ning. The transition is that from student
to alumnus: onee a Davidson man, always
a Davidson man. And though he may never
come back to the jiamiliar-campus, each is
bound to his alma mater with enduring ties,
‘May their service to the college as alumi
equal their leadership as undergraduates! _
Leaders, iriends, and icllow schoolmates.
we salute you! The warm friendships and
close associations that yo have made
/~ possible wiil never be forgotten. With every
sincere wish, ior your iuture suecess and
happiness, we bid you “God-speedi and
» send you on your way!

*« oe  *

Progressive Step...

AS this, the last edition, goes to press and
the close of another college year tooms
large ahead of us. a vital issuc is before the
Student body. We reier to the proposed
point system, which, if passed, will prob-
ahly have more direct ciieet on the camptis
life at Davidson than anything that has
taken plaec within the last decade or two.

, Elsewhere in the paper are the opinions oi
several students concerning the matter.
They! bring out points on both sides of the
case. Fit, by all means, think this thing
Girongh and form your own opaton, Don't
let somehody clse do your thinking for vou.

During this year our student body has
proved itself ta he a competent organizs-
tion. capable of clear, independent thinking.
The Freshman franchise bill was passed not
long ago by an overwhelming maiority, vet
when a measure similar to that was pro-
posed two years back, it was voted down.
The very tact that we were level headed
enough to do an about-face and take this
progressive step proves that there has

__ grown within us an indefinable something.
perhaps a keener sense of iudgment. that
makes us better citizens of the campus:

So let's tse this sense of judgment that
we have developed next Monday morning.
Whether we vote for or agains: ters have
a reason for what we do, Don't vote
against the propasal just because it-looks
too complicated to read through or because
you think that a certain ofiicer is being
given too many points. There are bound to
be many rough edges at first, The main
question that we are voting on is whether
or not there should be a point system ai
Davidson. In-a few years, it passed. the
Student Council may -have so changed the
present draft that it will be unrecognizable.
The point system idea has worked at other

colleges and there is no reason why it can- .

not be a success at. Davidson.

|
|
For these men brought us (

as. the °

I 7

Madison, Wis. — Tigh initiation fees
charged dy certain college honor and pro-
fessional societies were condemned here by
Dean Joseph A. Park of Ohio State Uni-
versity at the mecting of the National As-
soviation of Deans of Men,

Pointing out that some societics charge~
as much as $50 for initiation, Déan Park as-
serted that’so far as the special investigation
committee he headed is concerned, “any so-
ciety in any field charging more than $15
initiation ice will have to demonstrate an
unusual return lo the student before being
endorsed by the committee. °
/ “nother widespread practice is the sale

or emblems and insignia act a price which
yields a profit far above the cost of hand-
ling. with the purchase of such material in-
sisted upon. Granted that insignia are de-
sirable. they should be sold at a reasonable
price without eonecaling an. important
souree of ineome to the national organiza-
tion,” he maintained.

+ & * # ko *

South Hadley, Mass.—Students of Mount
Holyoke, Smith and Amherst Colleges will
soon be doing their library researeh work
with the aid oi a projector reading machine.

The libraries of these three colleges are
co-operating in the purchase of micro films
of ancient yolumes and important historical
records irom all parts of the word. At the
end of the project's tirst year, 100,000 filmed
pages will be availahle,

The machine for reading these pages is
much like a movie proieetor, but is of course
much more compact and easier to operate.

a ee

New York City.—To remove the barriers
to a broad liberal edueation whieh, as a re-
sult of the rigid requirements of the states.
have hampered the training of secondary
school teachers. a new five-year program
has been organized by Columbia University
and its. Teackers College.

The new plat. as announeed by Dean Eer-
bert E. Hawkes, will provide students with
greater opportunity ior the study of the lib-
eral arts, and will enable them to work on a
broader front when they enter the ticld of
secondary school teaching:

“Teachers no longer occupy watertight
compariments, in which they are restrieced
to a narrow field of scholarship.” the dean
explained, “Rather, they must be prepared
to funetion in fields other than those o1
their greatest interest, and to co-operate in
the adininistration of the school curriculum
as a whole,’

The new program will bring into a new
relationship the problem of training iuture
teachers what to teach and how to teach.

k &@ & 2 £ 2

The University of Virginia Alumni Asso-
ciation will request that Congress give the
University the $3,000.000 tund available as
a monument to Thomas Neiterson for an
“educational, living tribute.”

z * x * . £

The order of Military Merit, an ROTC
award. was given for the first time at a-
Massachusetts tnstitute of. Technology re-
view this tmoath.

+" a ” “2 al “

The University of Kentucky's band is
one af the leading musical organizations to
appear tn. the annual Kentucky Derby
parade.

a

a ee ee
* an

DEAR BILL:

With all the agitation now being carried on by advocates of the
newly proposed point system, we seem to have another upheaval
right on the eve of its occurrence. But no one has yet given a
definite, concrete’ argument for the plan. Only opinions, and not
facts, have been presented. Under the present setup Davidson does
not need a point system unless we admit that we have not ability
enough to elect proper men to offices or that the men elected have
no idea of their own capacities.

Following are listed several ideas we might consider before we
make a final decision in our minds about the matter: ”

1—According to the point system suggested we would need 43
men to carry out the offices listed and still have no man with more
than his share of points. At present there are 45 men holding these
offices. So does the point system apportion correctly?

2.—Having this system would necessitate starting elections at

person holding office, and thus feel hurt when something they are
in is left off, but the truth is that this is far from its purpose. Others
think that due to the fact that there are a large number of office
holders enough spreading out has been done, this however is due
to superficial thought for although there are a number of office-
holders the majority of the offices are concentrated in a small group.
Some say that point systems are ideals and cannot work but this is
disproven by the fact that twenty-two years ago Davidson had a
point system, which alumni witness to
And lastly to the fear that it might upset elections comes the answer
that there is very little if any-probability to this due to the fact that
the student body in voting will vote with consideration for such a
plan.

As to the practicality and workability of this plan we are assured
by the fact that it is used to an advantage in a great number of other
colleges and universities, thus with Davidson and other such schools
the plan has already been tested and tried and when administrated
practical.

—PHILLIP H. ARROWSMITH.

properly proven to be

as having been very desirable. |

‘ ching we need here to give each office a man with the neces-

| some of the oifices iisted take very littie time.” That is iust

the beginning of the second semester because of the revoting that es * ee e OF

would obviously occur when one man had too many points.

DEAR BILL:

I believe the average student is thinking something like the
following about the proposed point system, if he is thinking
about it at all: “It sounds pretty good, and I can’t see any great
objection to-iccbut-we’re getting along all right as it is, and
there’s no use putting in a lot of rules and regulations which
we don’t need, especially when they're liable to cause a lot of
trouble.” That’s a fairly logical position to take and I have
ielt that way myself. But after careful consiferation of boti
sides it seems to me that there i 4 need for such a plan aud
that the benefits would outweigh the disadvantages, which any
such system must possess. The advantages in my opinion are
three-told. Firse. it with make for greater eiticiency and use-
fiilness in the various organizations. Secondly, it will pro-
vide geeater incentive tor work and opportunity for leadersinp
among a large wurmber of students. And thirdly, it will relies
the pressure on the office holders, allowing them to better do
their iobs and keep up with other work as well. With these
benefits in mind and with a lide study of the present situation
in many organizations, I believe any man can see his way clear

add his support and his vote to the cause of the point system.
wo aan —HAYWOOD HILT.

fen

3.—The duty of apportioning the offices would fall to the senior
members of the student council, already one of the most overworked
groups on the campus. TO

4.—No credit in the system is given to the men who spend their
afternoons on the athletic field or in musical endeavors, but points are
imposed for most of the insignificant elective offices.

5.—Davidson is a small school without politics. Electing men to
office puts confidence into students, confidence in the fact that they
have put a good man into office. - These offices should not be con-
trolled by a strict point scale.

6.-The system does not take into account the fact that.in elec-

tions run later in the schedule all the men eligible for a particular
office might already have their quota of 40 points and thereby leave
no man suited for the job. - <

7.—About ten years ago Davidson had a point system, but it

was abolished when found to be ineffective and not applicable.

These are a few of the self-evident facts that have come to light
since the plan was presented, and they show the inadequacy and
inappropriateness of the proposed system. OUR SCHOOL SHOULD
NOT BE REGIMENTED ACCORDING TO A NUMERICAL SYS-
TEM OF EVALUATING A MAN'S ABILITIES AND CAPABILI-
TIES. ° i

—ANONYMOUS. ros fo eR
DEAR BILL:
In. view of all that has been said for and against the point system.
anything | might add will probably be superfluous; however, as

has been emphasized time and time again, there IS a need for

DEAR lui.l:

In consideration of the proposed amendment to the con-
stitution coneerning the point system Iet us remeimber that
we are voting for a prineiple, not ior the minor distribution
of points as oudined in this amendment. Ii it be found that |
the point evaluation of cach ofiice necds changing there wil!
be no trouble in effecting such a change. it will probably take
a litule time before the system will appear to be working in a
just manner in every case, but the principle is just the sor of

some kind of control on extra-curricula activities.

Men who honestly and sincerely oppose the point system say
that the individual should be allowed to undertake or refuse whatever
offices might be offered to him. We agree that in theory this plan
it has failed. All of us by

and before we know it,

is most desirable; in practice, however,
human nature over-estimate our abilities,
we are snowed under with more work than we know how to handle. .
For a great many years Davidson has been without any plan of
this kind; and, while things have apparently run off smoothly
enough, the efficiency of many organizations on the campus has’

dropped to a low ebb simply because their leaders have been too

sary lime to do justice to that office. Some will say, “Well,

the trouble: those offiecs should be given more time and thus
carried out much more cificiently than they now are.

So think about these things as you vote on this proposal and,
whichever way you votes do so because you Delieve it will be,
the best for Davidson in the long run. -~- :

- WARRIEN GAW.,
- = _ MORE LETTERS ON PAGE EIGHT

i loaded down to fulfill competently their positions.
All of you who are against the point system say that student
but

affairs at Davidson are pretty good as they are. Again we agree;
why not make campus life even better? Let's give the point system @
Chance and watch results. It may not work—nothing is perfect on
first trial—BUT WE FIRMLY BELIEVE IT WILL! ; ;

—SAM SPENCER:—-

_DEAR BILL: ——_—_ __. _

Many arguments have been raised for and against the point”

. FOR SALE — Any Number of 305 choice Hereford Stock _
aystem during the last few weeks. It sems to me that those who Calves aud Yearling Steers or Fleifers. 108 Cows. All Cattle,
disagree violently with the principles of the suggested system have Double-Tested. Weite for Prices.

entirely too much faith in human nature.

MARTIN MILLER — Batavia, lowa

%e
They offer as one main objection that, under the present con-
ditions “the individual student knows how many offices he ‘can

carry and handle adequately, and will accept or decline honors ac-

cordingly.” The latter is definitely not true and [ doubt very much

- FIVE COME HERE...

whether students even realize their own capacities, barring occa-

sional exceptions. It’s just human nature to take all you can get.

So let’s put this point system through!

i _ JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

A TRADITION OF. DAVIDSON MEN
—DICK VOWLES.

