WEDNESDAY, FEB. 16, 1938

Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Dabidsontan

probability, the greater percent of the vot-
ers will fill out their ballots, not as a serious-
lv considered duty, but as a part of the daily

Campus in Cartoon

King For A

Founded By the Class of 1915 routine. And their ballots will get just © oN Da
: about as much consideration and a good RY ‘ ay
1937 Member 1938 deal less than their morning cotiee. REPLLIS
Associated Collesiate Press You should have done it already, bt ii | By CHUBBY KING
Distributor of you have not, look around. see what goes on,

and from your observations, make a serious
antompt to diseover the best men for carry-
ing on next year's student body. duties.
For if the wrong man goes in, and if you
complain ahout the manner ia which he

1 . a “azo

HANK WISETT
CRACK STANFORD FORWARD,
SCORED 50 POINTS iM A GAME
WITH DUQUESNE. HIS"PERFORM-
ANCE BROKE THE OLD RECORD

Collegiate Digest
Published \Veekly ‘For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The .
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

Ht l took necessary space here to; nesses, underwent strange convul-

| deseribe horde of delectable tems
that deluged Davidson the past

sions and color changes.
Shaw Smith's action’s suspicious
when-he secured-the address and

i i BY A MERE 16 POINTS ” week-end, you fellows awaiting the telephone number of Miss Gail
Charlotte, North Carolina conducts, his work and handles his duties. vhvill of caving your printed names | eee prabiny wants a singin
| per nave yon a ane nobody else to ar wouldn't stand a Chance — Cen assistant. that lets Lem out
SUBSCRIPTION RATES ; blame. And, above all, make vour own de- THE VALEDICTORIAN quote Duke man, Carolina man, and|'Tyson Betty, Gene Vereen, ani
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year ros .

cision. Donit let anybody iniluence you. If OF THE U.OF PENN. Florida undergraduate as regards | Bill Snelling procured Model T for

t

von do, it is a reilection on your integrity, CLASS OF 1763 > , the paragonic loveliness of the fe-]| transportation this week — rather
REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING ov : senend and isielli ence male group assembled here loud at 5 PM... . James McDufi
National Advertising Service, Inc. wnaepencence, sens , Lovely lasses all, hundreds of them /and Date asleep about same time
420 Ce eee eee or ke NAY . . ee ne — a most excellent week-end. in front of the Pep — Fickling’s
Cmcaca « Bewt 8 + Loe AmsEL SAN FRANCISCO i For Juniors Onlv cee Another of ourgroup has for-|snores present also,... D. Rogers
‘ -" : ‘ saken bachelorhood, and joined: had difficult time due to lack of in-

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, | .\pparentiy the trend of the graduating sen that increasing number of married | terpreter — with Russian lady.
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879. ior is more and more to graduate work in his + men—in the Davidson manner.| Charles Smith enters crowded
DICK VOWLES .......2..22.2-2-2-20cee eee ee Editor-in-Chief particular field. . Mister Doty and Miss Ann George room of fems with: “I'm tall, dark
CHARLES MOORE.....---.se-s--soesee-.--Business Manager You, as inniors, do not want tc find your-" of Winthrop College and Morris. and unsanitary.” wee Abbie Con-
—== selves in the same boat that mary seniors find town, Tenn. got the knot tied dur- /nor, late dating in reom continu.
EDITORIAL STAFF ai theniselves adritt in. You want to make sure ing the weekvend. Thiel make | ally bothered By Visitors: nervous.
Fitzhugh Dade. 2.222 ---- esses eee nn ence ee ce ee eee Assistant Editor - three married couples on the cam- ly repeating: “Time getting short,
Tee lie a Managing Editor 1 yet you have the undergraduate iii i ipus — incidentally three SPE’s. honey...” Don Cleveland robbed
pesiey Coghil Managing Halter relore you apply or graduate wor ‘ . | What those fellows trying to do? |by two freshmen — Jack Abels and
Perry Sloan... Managing Editor | Don't neglect so imporiant an item, Consitit Run the rest of us out of business? |Toddy Latimer, who absolutely
Gill, Marauess” e Editor | vuus tacuhy adviser or the professor of the sub- ST. MARY'S: COLLEGE (CALIF) HAS Vth Dances... Jim ‘Terry and beau-| monopolized Cleve’s date, even in-
Bam, Cohan - Eater icct in which vou are taking vour maior. In- AN INDIAN STUDENT VIGIL? Is Aon tiiul date seldom seen at the dances treducing her at frat banquet as
Hector leGeach; Editor vestigate the:reanirements imposed upon ander: LONELY ‘ —some sinus enttaction sonte- their ow date : Bill Rader and
7 yhurn Art Editor, ;, where clse ... Rea Tenney boast- ailey who believe in good,
henry’ Baker strseesceeMlovie Editor | sraduates by the schools you are paruedtarly ing room mate's old flame reported, clean sportsmanship, alternated the
Wesley cont BUSINESS STAFF “Cultecton Manavet imerested ae Don t come eut on the short enc ; am saying—as usual: “The dope is. week-end with the same date — 1
John ft avener ~-Advertising Manager ol vour college course, y Letters to the Editor Pin getuing them on Jimmy ‘understand they’ve already budget-
Ain eet ce ..Cireulation Manager Cooper surprised by two charming :ed their dates for this semester...
son themoialt ooo neon ee ne suceseneeecd A Se eee Manager CE otters ever i) words mf cgth subject to cutting. AML letters con women demanding kisses, ducked | Hoppy Hill seeking terpsichorean

me sidered: for pubheation must ie saned, although the signature tay be his head beneath his pillow and

ideas at 11:30 PM Friday nite...
refused to come out... Friberg, Nancy Hovis’ dinner party oo.
Porter, and Powell, in the order] Dick Towil with Jean Little. Sam
named, approached one flirtatious’ Cothran with Lib Lee. Harry Me-
young maid for a late date and] Laughlin with Dell “Southerland.
successively got completely fluffed. | Bull Durham with Gee Gee Bran-

withheld if destred)
Special Letter to the Editor

(Continued from Page 1) .

Conditions can be changed. The fundamenta!
weaknesses in the Svstem—because Boru is corvineed ft is the system
and not the individual which is at fault—can be strengthened. And Boru

Scholarship has ueually been more fruitful when

iated with religion, and scholarship has never, | S en 1 or S ] an ts

so far as I can recall, been associated with any re: | “Cause and Effect” . ;
ligion except the religion of Jesus Christ. eee eee d ec Vet there ws hope.

—Woodrow Wilson. . nn
MID - WINTERS, 1938

r - . . wasn . : ~ mee . . Keupe cris i Fireinia
_Tribute To Melntyre ss Elly realizing my incapabilities L- would —Lpoints om the wrongs so that the student body tan oorrecr thei: Last{— Story of the week end Bryant ro rapa Ie with Dene
we \ : like to take advantage of this opportunit week he showed the reason for iailure to co-operate on the part of the /2" Sscapade of Rounder rhe Sicnart, Fred Stair and . inky

In all probability, no newspaper columnist g' PP y student body: wall grows, irom the lack of participation ieit by iresh-| (since the tale's on him, other| King fighting for the attentions oi

was as weil known as O. O. McIntyre, and | ‘0 congratulate the present Pan-lLlellenie
no column as weil read as his. Aititions of | . , Couneil and the David -
Americans will fecl something missing in | ; son student body as a
their morning papers, some o1 the zest in whole for making the
the printed page departed when his colusie Mid-Winter danees of

names not divulged). Friday morn-
ing Bounder brayed long and loud
to a friend that he, Bounder Bry-
ant, would take his girl
.. The night came

a beautiful Miss Bismarck . .. Re-
mark made abput Pinky — that he
was lowest form of snake he won't
‘even look for grass to crawl in,
Dorsett and Kiesewetter with.old

men and sophimores. who have had no part in electing their student body
olvicers and so feel no responsibility ior supporting these officers. This
week Roru proposes to lay a large part of the blame no the officers
| themselves.
i “Eteenal smties Ais emptiness betray.”

friend’s

In) these vitriolic words Alex- | #Way from him .

ceases to appear. Undouhtedly the passing
of Melntyre is a great loss to the newspaper
teld, a-toss that will be bard to till, We
pause to pay Uribute to the-memory of that
great newspaper man. “Odd” McIntyre.

i a a ‘ =

National Crisis...

Something approaching very close to a na-’
tional erisis is on our hands. Culess we do
our part to prevent the drift our nation will
slide once more into war as it dtd in 1917.
We must write our Senators, Congressmen,
and the President. insisting ¢nat certain
policies be followed to prevent gur being
drawn into war.

1. We must reiuse to countenance an
inerease in the naval appropriations untit
the Administration makes its foreign policy
perfectly clear, Are we going to “defend”
our interests in Shanghai and Nanking? Are
those tankers being built with a 14,000 mile
cruising range for ‘detending” our interests
in San Franeiseo or Yokohama? Is our
coast line from Alaska to Hawaiia to the
Panama Canal, ot does i1 run away out into
the micdle of a host of Japanese islands to
take in Guam?

2. We must insist that our nationals he
‘warned to get out of China aad withdras
military protection irom them alter due
notice. ;

3. We must insist that our warships be
withdrawn from Singapore at once.
have no business in an international block-
ade of the Pacific. And everybody seems to
know but we Americans, that our ships are
not over there just for afternoon tea with
the British admiral.

4. The Hill-Sheppard Bill, coming before
-Gongress, which would make the United

States, in time of war, a dictatorship, must_

be defeated.

‘ 3. The shipment of war materials to Ja-
pan and other nations must be stopped.
Japan is building her military establishment
with our materials.

If these and related matters which we
are reading about daily in our papérs and
listening to over the radio are not attended
to at once, we will find ourselves drawing
Great Britain’s chestnuts out of the Sino-
Japanese fire, or helping to defeat Japan
in a war which she has already lost econom-
ically, and thus give other nations their old
footholds in China again.

—R.A.T.

* Oe * * K

x
Who’s Your Man?...

In less than a month, the activity and sus-
pense of Spring Elections will have descend-
ed upon the cloistered peace of the Dav-
idson campus.

In less than a month, approximately five
hundred upperclassmen will, be filling out
ballots in chapel every morning. And, in all

We-

1938 one of the most
picasam and = whole-
some social funecions
in the history of Dav-
4 idson. .

Although tke. music
was exeeptionally good.
the decorations. timely
appropriate, and the girls exeremely beawei
ful, the suecess of the occasion was not due
to these factors alone, Kather, it was largely
attributable to the complete cooperation of
the Couneil and student body with the tae-
tlry on a matter which during the past sev
eral months has becn the cause of an unt
reasonable amount of dissentious opinion.

Regardless of diverse convictions with re-
speet to the danee situation, | am convineed |
that Dayidson has clearly and definitely:
shown that dancing and drinking are not
synonyms and should not be necessarily as
sociated. Although there may be those who
believe that the method employed for abol-
ishing drinking at our dances is not the best .
avatlable, nevertheless one must admit that
it is very ettective and that its tesults in no
manner detraet trom the pleasure of a Vance
week end,

We are justly proud of the fighting spirit
of our teams on the athleti¢ field, the friendly
feeling of one Davidson student to another
on the campus. and now we can be equally
proud of the gentlemanly conduct of the stu-
dent body on the danee floor.

The present Pan -Nellenie Corneil should
pride itself in the faet that on its shoulders
has been plaeed the privilege of ushering a
new movement 3n:o the social life of David- |
son which we hope wiil soon become an es-
tablished tradition,

I speak for the larger portion of the stu-
dent body when F offer my congratulations
to the Council and to those in any way con-
hected with the success of the dances for
having aecomplished this task so efficiently,

—JIMMY REINHARDT.

ee,

Betty Coed has rhythm, but Joe College
has almost twice as much. Tests given at
Miami University showed that while the
women’s score was a bare 39—or eleven
points below an average struck on the basis
of 10,000 similar studies throughout the U.

S.~-men students achieved a rating of 67.
a

Ticket scalping at Harvard-Yale football”
games was picketed by student “sandwich
men” whose signs read: “Scalp the Scalpers.
Scalpers Unfair to Harvard Men.” Students

“reported speculators were asking as much

as $50 for a pair of seats for a game.
* * * kK kL KK

Depauw University’s 750 men students
foot most of the “date” bills, but despite
those expensive item spend less in a year
than the 450 coeds.

Davidson student body.

is this: "

keep your mouth shut.

_ ander Pope might well have bees deseribing the Icaders elected by the
Leaders hollow? One would expect them to be,
when he considers the qualifications on’ which they are elected.
Rdvice regularly given ég treshmen,

The
who seem to be potential leaders,

je a tember—a star, preferably—of some athletic team and
bask in the sunshine of the smiles of the crowd:

smile constantly; and

Then people will say of-you: “A fi-i-ne fellow!

A go-o-od boy! T have never heard him utter a foolish statement!”
Boru has yet to hear any statement—wise or foolish—from the followers

ot this formula.

Onze the student body has found a likely leader it proceeds to heap

an intinite number of duties on his non-compltaining back.

And

he.

Mashing his constant smile. glbly forgets his obligations to iulfil his
duties. ancl takes. in his brilliant stride, the uneeasing bist of “honors.”
These are the weaknesses in the system, with regard to leaders, and

Loru would like to see the system improved.

A student body as large

as Davidson's needs CONTROLLED POLITICS in its elections so that
the leaders may be elected for their leadership. not for their “hale-fellow-
well-met” capacities. A student body, which has the’ potential leadership
Davidson has, should assure itself of maximiam etficiency from each
of its officers by a POINT SYSTEM which would limit any one man’s

duties.
“Wake tp, Qi
Yours. for a“better Davidson.

LAST WEEK'S LETTER
CONTRADICTED -...
Dear Mr. lclitor:

Boru wasted his time aad was
was foolish in what he said in your
paper last week, We made aif his
argument depend on democracy
and everybody knows there is noth-
ing fo that any more. Every coun-
try is turning to dictatorships now
and there is no reason why this
campus should noe follow the crowd.

Besides. the seniors know more
men on the campus than anybody.
Our upperclassmen do all they can
to help the freshmen get started
off right and you know the seniors
know practically all the underclass-
wen and -are really interested in
them atid their problems.

Also the senior class, even though
they are about to graduate and
leave, is very interested in how
things get on on the campus, so
they will do. all they can to-help

Avidson! and once awake. move forward!”

BORU.

conditions and they will vote right.
| hope all your readers will see

these mistakes Bont ‘has made and

will pay ne more attention to him.
Conscientiously. yours.

—'39.
EX-CALUMNIST
MISSES YE RAG...
Dear Dick:
_ Received the fast issue of The

Davidsonian on Saturday and ap-
preciate your sending it very much,
It was good to see the old rag
again, but it brought a feeling of
intense nostalgia.

You all are putting out one of the
finest college newspapers I've ever
seen. Chubby'’s column niakes me
blush with shame, and every fea-
ture is most commendable.

My best wishes to The David-
sonian. ,

Yours very truly,

_ —AL CADE, °37.

Former Davidsonian Columnist.

| From Campus to Campus

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Because he took a cow to college
with him, a student at Presbyterian
Junior College, Maxton, N. C., has
been able to pay his way through
college.

When he entered school, he
brought with him a good milk cow
from home, housed her in a nearby
barn and proceeded to milk her and
sell the milk to the college dining
hall.

He numbers among his extra-cur-
ricular activities the milking and
feeding and also keeping bossic’s
stall neat. °

There is a new ice cream eating
champ at Harvard.

He clinched the title for the
championship by putting away 24
plates — four vanilla, 18 chocolate

7

and a sundae of particularly ven-
omous appearance.

The previous titleholder, a fresh-
man, yielded to fatigue (or frigid-
ity) at 19 plates.

The Men's Protective Association
at Kent State College has the co-
eds biting their finger nails.

It proposes “protection” for
members against alleged coed of-
fenses, to-wit: Golddigging, last-
minute “date”. breaking, standing
up “dates” and flirting with anoth-
er while on same. Plus other itéms.

Men students get a list of ques-
tions monthly, and if their answers
heap guilt upon coeds, a “black
list” does the rest. The men must

steer clear of the “guilty” or pay

a penalty.

—— n

(Continued on Page 6)

and the unsuspecting Sunday Schdot
salesman, his morning's boast for-
gotten, was driving his friend and
The Date back to school from the
dance. Suddenly The Date, (pre-
arranged with the boy friend)
reaches over and kisses Bounder
very soundly — poor Bounder ran
the car off the road and nearly
overturned, and according to wit-

6

clothes and blankets left ‘bout 3 AM
Sunday morning with Dates to cook
steaks in the woods .. . Crooner
Gilliam’s ‘sweet nothings” enthrall-
ed lady listeners .. . Where was
Greasy Gus from noon Friday ’til
after church Sunday nite?

Last minute flash with news of
Bruce Peabody's marriage in Wash-
ington. D. C.

+ s.e Tt really seems

ithat spring is here with fair weath-

cr and “little apples” blossoming
everywhere. (If it’s cold, now don't
laugh because this is being written
on Sunday). Seriously though the
greatest wonder to me over the
week-end was how these girls can
do this “little apple” al night long
apparently without getting tired. A
boy is worn, to a frazzle after one
or two dances but these girls can
g0 on forever. Who said they were
the weaker sex? And while we arc
speaking of the danees let's put in
our complaint about the music.
Honestly it has gone too far when
the orchestra plays a “Killer-diller”

jfor a no break dance. And didn't

the council promise us one of the
top canking bands of the country ?
Anyway it’s over, no harm done,
and I for one had a swell time. So.

—o~

Beginners’ Stakes... Two cloak-
and-suiters went to their country
club to shoot their first game of
golf. At the first tee one of them
drove the ball 150 yards. His friend
téed off and made a 200-yard drive.
Their initial success imbued them
with gambling spirits.

“Dees is a werry ‘h’intristink
game,” said the first one. “Haw
abott inwesting in a side bate?”

His friend was amenable to wag-
ering upon his golfing prowess.
“Hukay,” he agreed. “Hah motch
vill ve play for? Name your figure.”

“PH tell you vot,” replied the first
one. “Lat’s make it rizzonable. Hah
abott—five cents a hondred?”

~_—o—

Fun... Having fun is a great

institution. Who doesn’t enjoy a

YAROLLS DEVELOPED °

Any size roll kodak film developed,
eight never-fade Velox|prints for only

Low prices on candid film. Handy —
mailing envelopes furnished.
_ VALUABLE PREMIUMS GIVEN

| MAIL YOUR FILMS TO ;—

i _Jack Rabbit Co.

SPARTANBURG, S. C.

Take
By Rut Miller

things can be overdone.

It Easy

having fun? But it seems that some
Somebody
showed their warped sense of hu-
mor the other night when they
drove their car all over the campus.
I mean in the front yard of Cham-
hers building and all over the field
at the left of the building. Anoth-
er example is shown by the boy
who threw his used chewing gum
into the crowd that stood in front
of the orchestra. He didn't seem
to mind tne fact that it got in a
girl’s hair and distressed. her so .
much that she cried. Sure fun- is
fun but we could show considera-
tion for other people. Little things
can ruin the whole week-end for
a person—so think it over. °
—o~—

Parting Shot ... Here is this
column's nomination for the best
gag of the weck-end: A certain
person approached Rhother boy.
looked him over from head to toe.
rubbed his and over his shoulder.
fingered the lapel of his coat and
said, “That’s nice material; why

don't you have it made into a suit?”

}

The
Place
To
Go...

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

oF.

25§

(COIN)

