2

oad

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 1938

THE DAVIDSONIAN. Page Three

Student Body Officers
To Be Chosen in March

Davidsonian Recognizes/S cientist
Fine Service of Moyer/To Lecture

Senior Has Worked Hard For

Four Years in College
Alumni Office

The Davidsonian recognizes
Ellwood Moyer for his unsel-
fish service to the college in

the fiekl of publicity and for ,

Chis qualities as a true David-
son gentleman. |

For four years Ellwood, a mem.
ber of the senior class, has worked
in Davidson's Alumni office. and
has been a vital factor in giving
the.callege much of its publieny to
various papers throughout the state.
Ellwood worked as understudy to
Crier Martin, former Alumni seere-
tary. during his fresoman and soph-

Eliwood Moyer

|
|

February 7

Chemistry and Physics Frats
To Hear Olpin

Dro ADR. Olpin, director of
research vot the Nendall mill
chain, is to deliver a lecture to
the Davidsun Chemistry anid
Thasies fraternities on Feb. 7
in the chemisiry Jecture room.

Hix address will he on “The
Training 6€ the fndustrial Scien-
list.” This is the seme lecture that
he delivered by requess 10 dhe
American Physical Soviery at its
meeting at Indianapolts in Decemn-

Leader Named
At Ministerial
Band Meeting

Elect Wetmore, King, and
Ramsey as Officers

Ivan Wetmore was elected pres-
ident of the Ministerial Band ata
meeting held Sunday, January 23,
to succeed Andy Wilkerson. [le will
hold office during the second sem-
ester, kK. R. King was named viec-

president: David MelLean  seere-

All Major Student Body Offi-
cers to Be Voted on in
Spring Elections

The annual spring clections
will begin on March 7 and last
until approximately April 26
with the installation of student
council olficers to be held on
April 24,

The president and officers of thee
Student bards wil be nominated on
March 7 to begin the series of elec-
tions, The vote on these officers
will be beld from whe Sth through
the fOth, or ungl they .are com-
pleted. On Mareh 10th pminations

ber tary and treasurer: and RW. Ram-_| for the YM. Co AL president: will
oinore years, and for the past two : . . . sey. corres ; cone ey OT be held : i 4 of
, h has helped p st t Dr, ipin received his Ph.D. at ey, corresponding secrelary. Vhe e hel andl this will be followed
years he has help Ered Smith. Columbia University. and for. 11 holder of the last named office | by balloting on-the Uth, 12th_and.
If a passer-by chances to peck into owt a crsuy.

the Alumni offices, nine times out
of ten he will sce Ellwond “pecking
away” at the typewriter.

Good Writer

Ellwood is an especially good
writer. specializing in sports writ-
ing. He is extremely fond af mak-
_ing up. statistical recordings, such
as football yardage. Ile writes for
°The Charlotte Observer and other
prominent Carolina . papers. ‘mak-
ing up for them such lists as those
of leading scorers in Southern Con-
ference football and basketball.

The DAVIDSONIAN RECOG.-
NIZES Ellwood Moyer,
has made possible a good part
of Davidson's publicity and who

who__.

has worked untiringly in this
field for four years.

WBT Midnight

years, was associated with the Bell
Telephone Laboratories. Five yehrs
age he eame to North Carolina to
establish a reséarch department for
Kendall Mills, In the shart) time
Lthat has easued he has built up a
unique physical laboratory which
cmploys six research workers. Tis
field of eesearch is entirely pioneer
work and in due me may well
revolutionize some of the textile
industry.

Since coming to Charlotte, Dr.
Olpin-has been very sictive in the

Bunny Berigan, who has lately been ranked as the outstanding
trumpeter in big-time orchestras, will bring his famous swing band
to Charlotte for the Mid-Winter dance set, sponsored by the Pan-

Hellenic Council on Feb. 11 and 12.

songstress, Gail Reese. ~

Articles by Dr. Cumming!

Must keep in touch with the state
organization,

The following oonmittees
appointed: Executive. committee,
Ivan Weunore, RK. WW. Ramsey,
Sherrard Riec, and Watson Street;
Program committec, kK. R. King and
Dave Woodward.

A imectings is to be held this Sun-
day. at which time Dr, Frank 1.
Caldwell president of the Louis-
ville Seminary, will lead a discus-
sion upon “Preparation of Deputa-
tion Tatks.” Dr. Caldwell, it, will be

* were

With him will be his popular

°

lath, °

The Editor of The Daxidsonian
will be nominated on the following
Tuesday from among the managing
editors tor this vear
jor this office, Will be on March
lo, 17, and WS. This will end tke
cleetions -before-the spring holi-
days, as the student couneil is anx
ious to have every member present
at the tithe of voting.

After the holidays, which fast
from the 244th to the 30th, will come
nominations for the Athletic Asso-

° Mata n ers mele , remembered, spoke to the Band last] ition, tolowed by che ‘voting on

. Fred Smith and Ellwood go to Dancing I arty city, Te eee eer ihe: Engi ; hd ° ° year, the nest three days, 7
. + “ y. csi : g eng “sy rT : : ¥ (res i i i

make up Davidson's “unbeatable > neers’ Club and has held several im aa e Ul tc Un eCVLeEWS New officers. will be inducted at} The freshman nominate their of-

sports scribe combination.” During
numerous football games, Fred is
seen running from press-box to
side-lines and back again, always
follawed closely by, Ellwood. To-
gether they may prepare _ sports
storics of one game. for as many as
five or six different: newspapers.
Ellwood’s newspaper experience
has not been confined, however,«to
Davidse? His home is in Colum-
bus, Ga. and during the summers
there he works keeping the box
scores of teams in the Twilight
Baseball League. He also does

Pleases Many

Davidson Students Enjoy Re-
corded Program

“This is the Midnight Dancing
Party, originating in the sttdios of
WBT in Charlone, N.C. There's
‘Big Jin’ Armstrong, the pride and
joy of Davidson Gollege, over there
ready to take your .call for any
and every recoréing you would like
to hear us play this morning.” At
least, that is what the loud-speakers

portant offices in the organization.

Dr. Olpin is being, brought here
by Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemis
try fratcenity, and the members of
Sigma Pi Sigma. physies fraternity
have been invited to atiend. Bott
fraternities had their beginning at
Davidson and today both are aa-
tional, having chaptersecattered ov
er the wounry,

Band To Play
A

‘Subject on Early Exploration
And Settlement

TAY Cumming. of the Rug-
lish departinent, has cecently ha:
three articles on whe carly explor-
ations and scttiements ia the south
cast. agewpted by The Aterican
llistorieal Review, The Tournal of
Southern Vistory. ard The North
Carolina Uistorieal Review.

Last summer while working on

the meeting, called far 2 o'clock in
the afternoon. Besides Wilkerson,
the retiring officers inelude Rod
Williains. wiee president, and R. W.
Ramsey, sooretary

oe ey

Grads Receive
Honor Awards

Brandon, Bird Get Fellow-
ships at Seminary

New Officers
Are Installed

Eumenean Society Gets Offi-
cers For New Semester

atl treasurer.

Officers for the new semester
were inaugurinted é6y the Eaauencan
Literary Sociery at the meeting of

that body last mgat.

ficers on the 2nd. sophomores the
3rd. and janiors the 4th, The yoting
ior these offices begins on April
5th and shontd require not snore
than (aree days.

The seniors elect vhe freshman
adviser for west vear at a mecting
on the 7th and elect this officer on
the Sth.

Student council neminagens for
all classes are to be held on the Sth,
oth, and Sth ot April. and the, vote
will be on tine four days following
the thth.

The editer of the annual will be

'G City’ —
some sports-writing for the wo] Lore Gn Davide hike amane t ate ity a Southern Grant in aid from the _ Me new otiicers. who were cho | According (aa —amticle which | Neminated on April LP and elected
Columbus papers. say fere wy Vavidson witic many Social Science Research Couneil. | Son at the meeting immediately pre appeared in The Charlotte Observer} Hie Hth. This election is only open
acnight oul dances hat wight be Dr. Cumming made a study of the ‘ ‘ ‘ . ‘

Active Sportsman

Not only does Ellwoad like_ta]

write about spores, but he is an ac-
tive sportsman himself. Yor three
years he has played college base-
ball, and this spring will mark his
final year on the Wildcat diamond.
Ellwood is also interested in basket
ball, and is one of the best intra-
mural basketeers in school.

Short and blonde, Ellwood is not-
ed for his quietness and unassum-

called the mone-hop -or—the—soaloz
Lskip—berween the beds with a book |
in his Aands, :
For someume now WBT has cn-
tertained college .boys and other
listeners from Maine to Florida
with their daily tnidnight record.
ing program, From many north-
ern and eastern schools come a
perpetual flow of requests via tele-
phone ane telegraph for popalar
recordings to the Charlotte

jaaz

Symphony Gives First Concert
In Greensboro

THe Davidsar College Symphonic
Band will give its first concert of
the year in Greensboro. February
&.

This concer will be given in the
Odcit = Memorial - Anditeriuay of
Greensboro College, and will
clude several numbers plaved by
the hand in recciit radio broadcasts.

in-

explorations and settlements anil
wrote three articles, “he first ar-
ticle was “Nathaniel Batts and the
Earliest, Permanent in
Carolina.” ‘Vhe other two articles

Settlements

deal with a study oj strange early
geopraphical ideas, and the identity
ot (apvernor Joh White.

Dr. Cumming, got) his material
from a number of ditterent squrces,
He traveled to all the larger librar-

ceding the exam period, are: presi-
dent W. AW. Kader: vice-president,
Sut secretary, Dick
Kenyon, and eritie, Ro Terre Sam
Webb contunues as treapurer, as bis
term of oftice will not expire util
the erd of the next semester,

la taking over. the oresidency
from the retinine chead.. Dick

Vowies. Rader addressed a few re-

on fannary lo, Iwo graduates of
Davidson College have recently re-
ceived high henors as Uitien Phe
ological Seminary in Riehinond
D. OR. Brandon, of Naanapoltis. was
awards) the Charles D. Larus fel
lowship, whieh entitkes Kitt to an
sdeditional vear of slady at the sem-
inwry, and Andrew kk. Birel.
Washingion, D. C., was the recip-
ient of the Walter W. Moore fel-
w| howship. .

Robinson:

marks to the group, Ele referred to
the impressive histary of the society

to seniors.
Scripts and
ma,

Pranks, the humor
ine, will have Ws new editor

The election

. @ :
noonnated and clected on the Louk

the 20th and) the cheer-
feader will be numinated aad elec-
ed drom tae 20th throvgh the 23d,

Vhe instatlation of otticers of the
student body opel take place -on
April 24th as presetibed m the con-
stitution.

through

i

Afler installations whe next six

ing attitude, and for a cheery smile : s : He will be the first S@“which the ics in the eastern part af the Un av discussed the need: for stimu During the summer of 1936, Bran. {Or mere days will be given over to

. ¥ session, Fraternity groups,on the ° cd States in Tris searéh for carly lanon to a preater interest and ac - , the cle tthe YOM.
which he constantly wears. One of Cornell. and Massachusetts Seate | band will be thrected by Mr. Rob- : s a Ng } " any a greater interest and ae] day served as supply pastor of the] Me ectton—otr the Yo M. Cc. A,
his elassmates well characterized ne MASS: sens source snaterial, The most anpert- | tivity on the part of the members

south Davidson. of course leads the

ert C. Stnith of Charlotte. who will

Pravid&ave Khode Isand, where he

First Presbytertan Church of Wan-

ie Second Presbyterian Chuceh of

board of control and the Publica-

The entire student body votes on

et . . : . . > sever: te! Ne a Twine the Philanthrope society to] baer ' all these oficers exee he, ones
, race, and would only receive a close | sence, For several years Mri) ed ter of seventeenth cen |, leh be held " ; ’ Pétersturg, Va. [Rul ee ers pt the, ones
Med Stu dents battle for supremacy ii the many Smith has serwed successfully as a dehate to be held wathin the next Andrew Bird is a grandson off Previously specified,

requests from colleges in’ North

direetor of the. Alexander Graham! |). :
‘information about early scilements

liry manuseript maps- whieh show

few weeks, The spice, proposed bike late Dr, Waker W. Sloore, who

. : naan . i i Schaol band and or- ren wom was “Subsdization of Athletics at] verve one Bars as sie I
° || Carolina and sndjcining statés were | Jimior High School band and or eee cong coast, mot re | pte er ton ct Atleties tf served for many yBars as presi | fifi MIAMI AAAI
] c a er bined. Of the d souther orchestra as well as director of the a . : aay Woaceept: | dent of Union Seminary. Tke pres. |
ree Mone eee ee Central High School Symphon corded elsewhere. These-mant Ting challenge. will have the priv: to head of the institation is D
is It i i ‘ e a ° ¥ Y - . . : ‘ ‘ en wad oO te Uistitation ts r.
— . listeners, the University of Florida Orchéstra. Mr. Smith, who ie w cit script maps are in a valuable col {jeu uy choosing between the at { Benjamin ko | who tormerl N O R T O N
- . . : tatra. Mr. 1O is W : , . 8 soe wg tenga kK. Lacy who erly :
With—the approach of their last | seems 19 hold the highest rung. known to members of the hand, will lection of ntaps gathered by Rlath- irintive and negative. sides ot the} jived in Kaleigh. Bird) entered in ~ :
+ oe ts ~ . o < 2 ,w - ‘ ' ‘ . S at Xs . Nir. ntere
semester of pre-medical school life.| Yee kirby, Caldwell Cline aod direct only the band while Praof,| Y8vt 17th century royal collec. al 1935 and reévivell one of tha cos FRERE S
. . . : + ; . , : a . . . - ; a5 og reECULV CE 7 r .
all of the medical students in David- | Bill Bivens, wha do the announcing Thane McDonald of the music de-| '* of reventes. had beer fost for rites appointed by the new | cted latia cholarships at the close
: . . d a s - , tend e | ete scholarships ; .
si vappliec medical schools 1 adeast have over six hun- : . ~ [two cénturies and yecently came to ‘ . a . ‘
on have applied to me al schools’) for the broadcast have over si partment, will serve as aciing thi- MWwo ce . \ * president care: digar committee, To pot tis) finst session. He is now

for admittance, and most have al-
ready received notification of their

seems to be Duke, with the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, Medical Col-
lege of Virginia, Temple, Medical
College of Charleston, Carolina, and
Tulane following in that order.
Those whose applications to Duke
have been accepted include: Marion
Bryant, Henry Cutechin, ‘Tom Dan-
iel, John Graham, and James Rein-

dred recordings at their disposal at

all times. Sone of clhese, of course

can not be played except by per-
mission. Efowever, they have just
rabout anything you like. so just call
“Big Jim” at 4600 or use the dot
and dash,

Most Popular

At ‘present Tommy Dorsey holds
the peak of popularity with all the

rector of music.

Professor MeDonald announces

(Continued on Page 6)

Senior Writes

Bright Reply

light at an anction sale in London.
The Comberford map. a matarwscript

discovery. since it shows the actual
location of carly *xettioments and is
in many ways the most detatted imap
ef the Carolia éoast line Dr.
Cumining also got material from
the Library of—Congress at Wash-
ington, and from awe collections of
found Asheville aivd Tin

Mips in

Ik. Walker;
Suitt

conmmitltec,
Mawhinney.

prograin
Taba

president of the seminary student

. ¢ .
Kobinson. body. Brandon also received one

Wear Pabare,

We little iclows have disgovered
that the big iellgws can lose moncy

for us faster than we ean lose it

We vind that we enjuy hie more
howe avedd the company of well
il -

ied peaple. jor ourselves.

~ : of : seniors. | Camden, South Carolina. ’ . . ee
eee dat ike Uni_| listeners, barely edging out Flat] {One of our well-known seniors. Caden eee cc ainting event. We Do Not Believe in Advertising
hardt. Those accepted at the Uni- Kemp and Benny Goodman. The | "0t having prepared his business 3] r. Cumming is expecting eve — .
versity of Pennsylvania are: Jack Jatt i the other hand has thetlesson for January 19, 1938, wrote ually to compile a list of every early BUT...
. oe atter, on the other . s . FEO . .
Lafferty and Bilt Kiesewetter. most often requested single record- the following answer to the ques-) MAP of the southeast ares I the Charlie Moore has to get through School
Reinhardt has also applied. 5 in Loch Lomond. Runny Beri- tions “What is a severance tax?” | country, both mamusenp and print
Heywood Hili and. Doug Neal & . y ud with an indication of every indi SO CHARLIE, HERE'S A HAND

have®Been accepted at the Medical
College of Virginia in Richmond,
while Walter*Sawyer and A. L.
Ingram have been accepted at
Temple. Received by the Medical
College of Charleston were the ap-
plications of Joe Bailey and Sam
Lowe. Howard McFadyen has been
accepted at Carolina, and iw. P.

preparation_at college, then there
(Continued on Page 6)

New Club Needed -

Fred Smith, alumni secretary,has
recently announced that there is a
need on the campus for a club to
take the place of the one-time Beav-
er Club. This Beaver Club was or-
ganized by Smith when he was in
school, and it was made up of boys
who were willing to entertain visi-
tors on the campus.

gan leads the Davidson list for ob-
yious reasons. _
The Daneing Party is getting long
distance calls ‘from every state in
the Union these days “so if you get
that swingy feeling tonight remem-
ber the nuawser is 4600 from 12:30
‘til two.” ‘

On display at the College Library
this week are snapshots and photo:
graphs taken during the dress re-
hearsals for the Centennial Pageant
last spring.

Prof. Chalmers Davidson, librar-
ian, plans to make a scrapbook lat-
er, including all the material con-
nected with the pageant, and would
appreciate the contribution of any
other pictures which are on the
campus.

Some twelve or fifteen cameras

and “Why is it levied?” asked by
Professor O'Connor.

“A severance tax is one levied on
the separate parts of Siamese twins
after they have been severed. Hence
the name, ‘severance tax.’ Jt is not
levied on ynost people, since they
are not separated from themselves.
usually; but in
cases, there must be some prohibi-

ate.”

Then a personal note was adder
to the paper which read “avpfollows :
“Em plowing into new’ low ground
on THIS one.”

Complete
Home

these exceptional,

vidual copy possessed by.every hi
brary. which he has visited.

Prof. O’Connor Leaves

Professor. J. S. O'Connor of the
business departinent, will not be
a member of the Davidson College

department while Professor J. P.
Williams was or aicave-of absence.
He reccived his A!l4-degree at the
University of Washingtou and his
M.B.A. degree at Harvard.

“You’ll Find Warmth and Friendliness
At Bridges”

College Pharmacy —

DAVIDSON'S “SERVICE. DRUG STORE”

CLT

: Standard PRINTING Company

117 Garland Court + Charlotte, N.C.

PRINTERS EXTRAORDINARY
to SCLIOOLS and COLLEGES

HIT

SEND US YOUR
LBooklers, Cc ‘older, Crckets, Ore.

A COMP LE'FE |

* Pragrar

RINTING SERVICE

Tonsorial Palace

ci 7 i me piece : am an > New Nrek Vublic Lilfrary, . : . : :
ae ce, 1 dical school he lilfernat act ot the and thet that) Mr. Julian, DeGray, concert in the see amportant. historical and Jack UTloWand. A inembership | of the same scholarshins during his *
. a c a7 Cae re - fas another import stories . : 7
~ he most popular medical school| by different orchestras and o “| pianist. and member oi the Ben- was anothye | Will probably. he lected in the first year. —

| Nc

SUCH A HONEY
More dazzling than sunshine

- ota campuses are the most frequent of |“! a ant discoveries Were made at the | podasy. : ry “| a
Elwood. ih ealeld avhen he saad: A man re" line northern callers. While in the | “ree! the band this semester dur- lohn Carter Drown Library in ” yn . napalis, and i now supply pastor of | HON board. “
ligiously conscientious to his duties. ing Prof. James Christian Piohl's JuMn ve ? _-Plins were advaneed for chal

AMECHE“.

Bradburn at Tulane. dical Library Now Displays tive levy to keep the Siamese iwin|taeulty during the second semester. = Your “One tn A Million’ sweel-
After leaving here, the medica : breed from increasing. The levy| Professor O'Connor was secured = Perens
. a : 3 SS > 2 El) hearts... re-united in romance!
students will spend four years of Pictures of Pageant has never failed of its purpose, to] to fill the vacaney in the business i= ,

appy
andi

vith...

Benny Goodman's
greatest rival ..
These boys really
Go To Town!!
RAYMOND SCOTT
QUINTET

Promp¢ Serviee Reasonable Prices

(TTT

Smith pointed out that there ,was| were. in action at the rehearsals, but Furnishers a a Balcony
a definite need for such a club now. | less than twenty pictures calld be| All SAN RIE
en such days as the high school found for the collection. These ‘few 308 South Tryon Street This WP : ND 25¢

ootball day last fall, which was |are the work of Fred Smith, alumni Week Swat fLEAT HO Anytime
held on the campus on the day of | secretary, W. B. Scherer, and John Charlotte, N. C. - Charlottes Most Popul
the ‘Erskine football game here. | Mawhinney. , ir rene e's os opular-——

| —
