THE SPORTS LOG

By TOM CAUBLE

Well, another week's hostilities along the basketball front finds the
Cats still the undisputed leaders of the Big Five and running closely
behind Wake Forest's Deacons, the Southern Conference pace-setters,
for the leadership of the bigger loop. ‘ ‘

The local quint was generally unimpressive in victory here last
week over medicore South Carolina—minus its high-scoring guard,
Hutto—but snapped out of it on an excursion to South Carolina over
the week-end, when they took Furman and Wofford handily.

“Foots” Cowan, known last year as “sure death” under the basket
but bothered by a mild scoring slump lately, pulled out of it nicely
against Wofford Saturday. Captain lverson, after a rather slow start,
appears to have found the cye that has enabled him to finish high
among conference scorers for two years. The steady, ever-reliable J.
D. Hicks, whose aggressive play sparks the team, has also bagged plenty
of buckets to date. Johnny Tice, spectacular defensive man, has proba-
bly the most improved eye for the basket on the starting jive. Johnny's
accuracy on free tosses was a great help in the Carolina victory. Benny
Harrison, good floor-man and ball-handler, and Jimmy Hogg, less re-
Hable on the floor but a better shot, round out the regulars as the
‘Cats go into the stretch.

Reserve power furnished by a handful of reliable subs seems to
have made the difference between this year’s winners and last year's
losers: ‘

There has been a great deal said recently about the breaking up
of the Big Five—a situation which will materialize in 1940 when David-
son and Wake Forest fail to meet on the gridiron for the first time
since the rivalry began several decades back. Personally 1 would like
to see Davidsow drop another traditional rival or so in favor of meet-
ings with, for example, such teams as Washington & Lee and William &
Mary—two conierence schools whose teams our Wildcats could meet
on equal terms.

There are other schools outside the Southern Conference—such as
Sewanee, Kentucky, and the University of Miami—which would make
worthwhile opponents. Furthermore North Carolina fans have proved
that they will pay to watch teams from other conferences perform
against state elevens, It appears possible that some of these changes
may come about when present contracts expire.

ON THE CAMPUS: Sorry to hear that Parks Harrison is moving
on soon... Parks has held down a tough job mighty well here...
Winning over Carolina and Duke in the same week was quite an ac-
complishment for the Wildcat, or would be for any team in any sport for
that matter ... Congratulations to the Kappa Sig bowlers who won the
inter-frat bowling crown with nary a single defeat... in eight matches
their quintet had a team average of just a shade under a hundred pins,
which, considering the conditions of play, is remarkable...Too bad the
seniors had to get beat in their last game in the inter-class bowling tour-
ney...until the‘juniors upset them the class of °39 possessed a perfect
record for four years of intra-mural ball...the ‘Cat wrestlers looked
formidable in almost every weight a> owned eB Devil’

DAVIDSON SPOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jan. 18, 1939

Wrestlers In

Victory Over
Duke Devils

Bill Johnston and Ed Ellis
Garner Falls As Davidson
Downs Duke

Convaleseent

“Swede” |

Davidson's varsity wrestlers earn-
ed a 19-11 victory over Duke’s mat-
men here last Saturday afternoon.

Captain Craver of Davidson, ac-
tive for the first time,this season,
turned in a nice exhibition of wrest-
ling to show complete mastery over
his man. Big Bill Johnston, the
Wildcats’ all-state guard last fall,
made his first appearance as a
grunter by pinning his opponent
in the unlimited. Ed Ellis was the
only other Davidson grappler to
win by a fall, Abels and McFadyen
won on decisions,

Davidson's bonebenders will go
into- action next when they meet
State here on February 4. The Red
Terrors will bring a strong team
here, having beaten Maryville,
State champs of Tennessee for the
past. three years, 30-0, and having
taken the measure of V. P. I. 18-14.

Davidson’s Kittens were defeat-

ed by a strong Barium Springs team , .
26-6 here Friday afternoon. Only Swede Johnson, long:shot artist

Davidson yearlings to win decisions from Stamford, Conn, is closing hie
were Aarsetli and “Freeze. The} basketball_career withthe. Wild-
Frosh will resume competition a- cats this season. This lanky blonde

has been a valuable asset to the

gain here Feb. 4 against the State David ‘ th all
Frosh asa prelude to the varsity avidson reserve streng all year.

meet.

Bill Boyd, Senior letterman from
Atlanta, has been kept out of action
since Christmas by an appendicitis
operation. Bill “isa forward, and
had seen a lot of service in the
earlier games on the schedule.

McEver Issues
Practice Call

Gridders To Start Spring
D+ os

Results of Duke-Davidson varsi-
ties:
115-tb.—Stata, Duke, pinned MclIn-
tyre in 4:13.
125-ib.—Abels, Davidson, decision-
ed Clark,

F ro sh Cagers
Cop TwoWins

Wildkittens Defeat Badin and

TS

Davidsons

’Cat Quintet Unbeaten
In South Carolina

Page Four

March On

Through Furman, S. C.,
and Wofford Quints

Hicks, Cowan and Iverson lead
Attack as ’Cats take Easy
Wins; State Game Tues.

Closed Season for Exams
Team High In Con-
ence Standings

Davidson's high riding quintet
continued its victory march during
the past week by winning three
more gaines from South Carolina,
Furman, and Wofford By easy mar-
gins in all games.

On Tuesday night the ‘Cats took
on South Carolina's Gamecocks in
the local gym, beating them 36-25.
Leading 14-12 at the halfway mark,
the Birds jumped ahead at the start
of the second half, only to sce
the game put on ice as the ‘Cats
started a barrage of bgskets. Cow-
an led the scorers with: 12 points,
while Iverson and Hicks had 8
apiece.

Friday night saw Davidson play-
ing the Paladins of Furman there
and winning 40-31, Davidson was in
front from the start and led 20-15 at
intermission. Iverson was high point

man for the night with 12 points,
while Hicks’ came in second with
10 to his credit.

Saturday the Wildcats ended a
successful week by defeating Wof-
ford 36-25 at Spartanburg. The
Terriers were subborn all the way,
but the ‘Cats. displayed fine team-
work to cop the game.

The Wofford warriors went a-
head at the start and held the lead

Wildeats Rank
In Loop Race

’Cats Place Second in Confer-
ence Standings; Wake
Forest First

Davidson's hardwood Wildcats
appeat to be definitely on the prowl
as they continue to pace the Big
Five and press Wake Forest's Dea-
cons for the Southern Conference
lead.

Wake Forest leads by virtue of
six conference wins and one defeat,
while the ‘Cats boast five loop wins
and one defeat. The Citadel holds
third place with Maryland’s Old
Liners, only conference team to
beat Davidson, in fourth.

The Wildcats’ Big Five lead rests
on victories over Duke and Caro-
lina and no defeats. Each of the
remaining Big Fivers has lost at
least once.
| Clemson's Tigers, runners-up in
the Southern Conference last win-
ter and.a pre-season favorite, have
lost all five of their conference
starts and one more defeat would
eliminate them as a tournament
possibility.

The Blue Devils of Duke, last
year’s champions, are also far from
the top as they have broken even
in six starts. However, they hav
plaved_six of the toughes
