v

Page Two

The Dabidsonian

, Founded By the Class of 1915

THE DAVIDSONIAN.

David’s Son
He Wisely Eschews The Honor
Of Meeting A Grown Goliath

One Minute Satety

T
L

alk

Thurs., Dec. 7, 1939

 GLEANINGS

— - —s — 7 _ After yesterday's football game between ) . By MELVIN MEANS
1938 . Member 1939 Davidson and Wake Forest. the wisdom oi by ville greatly missed th
Associated Collesiale Press diseontinuing the SO year old Thanksgiving eet. of Shikee” Ince Friday
7 oe Distributor of classic was ciearly apparent- to all the any

Collesiale Disest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” ‘

Printed By The .
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
"Charlotte. North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
‘ Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
| :

 nepresenreo FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING OY

“ National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MAoISON Ave,” New YorK. N.Y.

speeiasors with a iellow-feeling for David-
son, at least.’ The seore of Jo to ¢ repre-
sented, in all probability. not only the dif
ference in man power between the two
‘teams but the comparable emphasis upon
iootbalt at the two institutions.

Indecd, to apply the score in one other
way, it might be said, not at all disparaging-

ly of the exeelleace of tae Wake Forest_

athletes, that it retlected the difference in
the foothall invesunents of the two denomi-
national schools. Not. pureiy by coinci-

wasn't

Dope as readily |
- coming this week as usual;-

is .
ford to Charlotte motivated numer-
‘ous local Mickey Rooney's to try
their, hands at the old love game.

nite they thought he was a regu- ?

‘lar fixture at the affair—but their

disappointment was somewhat lift-

-ed upon the ajipearance of his two

1

dancing companions - Jim. Owens
and Roy Burton. Confirmed reports

| from the Huntersville Pan-Hellenic -

‘Torth- council -
hence : would not have been a success all
eam afraid that this corner willj Season had it not been for these
7 af heeven more anemic than it usually ' boys
. The coming of Ann Ruther-!

state that their dances

. And while thinking about
dances, it brings to mind the fact’
that Bosco and jim jinally returned
from tae tiip To N@w York and-
the national interfraternity council

dene; we may be sure, has Wake Forest
' colleeted its Bationis, Galioviches, Horchaks,
kaprivas, and tohn the. Baptist Polanskis
irom Homesteads Pa., Vandergrift, Pa.,

Chicaco + BOSTON + LOS ANGELES * SAW FRANCISCO

':Ookie” Taylor, Hewes, ‘Mack. and meeting. While neither are giving
| Erank ‘didn't get very iar with her out any dope. it mas become known
Sunday nite late—merely got the |that they have done everything but
‘name” on the line for

Enter 4 9s second: class’ matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
~Rorth Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ly | but a big *
“Th jact that she had hada “territical y
yee ° atsmy Uncle Joe : srry, boys.” Too bad,! Mid-Wineers. Cyinei on, Bos, stip
TONY CASALI lol Pz ab lo..N. i hard day. So sorry, voys.” Too ba
Ps ohnstown, Pa. and Buttalo,.N.
JIM CURRIE --- BUSINESS MANAGE . \nd J hn the B 4 lads. but understand that, you*dide up the dope ... George Mitchell
: - ———— EDITORIAL STAFF . ° * as _ wallerightwith.the next number you! wasted alot of money trying to

- —— Cra
Jack _Abergpthy...----2--2------+ “ Assistant Editor @ sophOmore

eae

: M ing Editor * ~~ Speen fealled .. . And the jatest phrase j get adate f for the Rappa Sig-Nappa

AF er, anagin clas sae . soe - e ! . ; _

Tom publ = ‘. Managing Editor ; H-may be argned that the diticrence -be- He was oné of the | to “sy lo “gweet-the campas is “inookiet Mone Pe Ball ae week: PN
publ 3 tae . was os =: = 4 ale asT nite

cs see h Meaaeing Eater: vison on Wake Pores * oaty in Seren Teencr. “oes the mer ven’ de Bits i date an and 1 was flushed. And she was
Kndy Dale wsecSports Editor ~vidson and Wake Forest is onty in degree, speediest drivers - ihe i Np. Pika vaiiait Setarday up to Homecoming with one, of
Erle Austin .-. Associate Editor a : = > we ie Sig-Ep i ,
Jack Volland Associate Editor and that Wake Eores: is simply equipping _Ground here” nite is reported to. have’ been as-Mliteh’s “bpbthers”, too... Boyd
Rarl Hudson... Associate Edttor — itseii to meet Duke. Carolina and its: other /- Pe. .

highly successful as“4vas_ the Fiji{ Flynn was among the numerous
Bobby Williams

Le Peoteriner subsidizing opponents on equal terms. We |

neti ing T - | Davids st ing - Win-
ANRUS_LYLC ns eos cee een eee ee ee eee Pee ee 6s } . venction on the-preceding Thurs Davidson boys frequenting
BUSINESS STAFF " du not deny it, but we can continue to decry That so, where is he . day... . Dick Phillips took all the: ston and the dance. Satiddy nite.
Uses Voie ener “Advertising Manager it. :And in any case, unless Davidson is now?” cussing abéut Davidson he could Me ‘idn’t seem to be able to have
rctor Mele q Manager . . . aa os : stanu su +i ris e ;
peter awa ‘Cireaiatton. Manager. prepared to do likewise, no other course stand in the Davidson section at the s ;
Jack Loving‘or Circulation Manager x id be iair to the bo ho h ‘“ ’ * , Wake game—he did his little bit-to however. Wonder who those twen-,
Fred Littie- Collection Manager ou e€ iair to tne Ys who have to Oh he s dead stop it, but his little bit wasn't’ e-| ty girls he is reported to have™~

«_throw theniselves up against iull-grown

asked in vain -for late dates were.

The Davidsonian extends its sympa-
thy to Robert Terry, ’38, in the recent

loss of his father.

“For Auld Lang Svne™

Gur long. heated. rivalry with Wake For-
est is over, The Raptists conquered our
Wildeats with a brilliant array of foothall

men but to play in a lowersleague. .
Courtesy Charlottc News.

Parade of Opinion

DIES Congressman Martin Dies, the

_.government’s one-man crusade
against alt things un-American, :has an-
aouneed that he'll soon turn hts prying eyes

on U. S. colleges and universtzies—but: he's
0

going to get ad>warm reception.
Past uetivities of Mr. Dies’ well publici2s—

i.

_Murphy’s | Mumblings

By BOB W
74

a

Thursday and Friday”
Dec. 7 and 8

Travelers Safety Service

ILLIAMS

Monday and Tuesday
7 Dec. 11 and 12

hoe Ok

Te AR TY

———

nough, itvscems. The other guy ‘vas

about twenty years older and could
get_ mad,
duck, Junior? “.. If 1 didn't know
that Bett Fishburne
girl I'd have to question a case of
mistaken identity at Converse Fri-
day nite. ... Mason Wallace seems
to be taking over where Karl Tlud-
son left off—and just about as ser-
igus as Karl seemed to be last

year. Better stop running ‘to Spar-

tanburg during the middle of the} Sounds bad, John . .

Week, Mason...

too. Did you forget to|

Was a swell

TRealy didi'c, iow hat he knaw

that many girls ... kt may be stale
by now, but it is the first time
1. have heard it—Al Green made
quite Aa hit running around the Y.
W. C, A.. sans a very important
piece of his clothing. Better use-a
little more. diseretion, Albert

Best story of the week—John Pur-
dy a frat pin from Bus Yeager and
having it sent direct to his girl.
. Chastain, a

Don't know who] little farther advanced in his woo-

is responsible for the signs on the; ing than ‘Purdy, is now worrying

. 3 doors on first igor Georgia, but ‘ about a breach of promise suit’ 77
talent in a, game that was packed with ed committee have already diseredited his “Disputed Passagé"; Dorothy La-|  ‘Rulefs of the Sea’: Doug Fair-1 they are good. Gales’ irequent trips) And to top it off with another
plenty oi thrills. irom both sides, <in this work, the collegians maintain in editorials, thour, Akin! Tamiroii, John How-| banks, Jr. Will_Eytie. Margaret: to Lynchburg are commemorated note about the big man from the
finale .to football relations between these in the college press, but they nevertheless ae are Williams Col- | Lockwvo.e and George Banerpit. Son his door by proclaiming hi west” Rufus ERNEST Powel an

ve . . : : : lier, Billy Cuok. Une on tee finest pietures of the pHs OF of thatTair section. Tle and Scems that he definitely “went”
two, schools, : we lear that his proposed Investigation will, Hoya C. Douglas. who alsa authe| scan G8 racy Ry all ‘Lhe erities.’ Thomas had ANOTHER big weck-i for Miss North Carolina, better
While: ait -editorial coluimn is probadiy without cause. injure the nation’s institu ered “The Migniticient Obsession” | aud. irom the geod reports that we. end up-that way again ..... known to Rufe as

/ the wrong place to buiid up sports, we would

like to make an exception and say a little of

tions of higher learning and hamper the ae-

complishment of their programs and the ful-~

and “The Green Light”, wrote the
novel from which this story in al,

ive heawl abouc i. we know that

attraction — is

What ;
there im Lincolnton | she fluffed him off with a-two.o-
chere ‘are. very few trat will sut- tbat could draw the dangeroms trio! ! clock deadline’ 7

“bunny”. but |

“AEE you slip-

our own Wilson “Tubby” Land who finish. ~-tilment of cheir duties, +} medical college is iihned. The story ppass—it — lar Ficklen, Currie and Crichton to/ ping, Rufe? along with Watson
ed his collegiate ioothall eareer in a blaze +. The Ohio State University Lantern be- ideals with a promising young med)  .\beut one hnadred years ago twol that jair city’ on a cold Sunday| who had_plenty of trouble with an
=e ciory. . a _ Meves that_c'whatever Mr. Dies’ avowed —L‘tudem who is tom between love | Scctsmene-one of. one young. had | nite after church? ... The regular | ex-Davidsonian, Lil White, Satur-

~

Johnny Bucer, pride and joy of all Ten-
nessee, onee made a run against Alabama.

geod intentions were, he has scuttied them
with his surrilous tacties.. Mr. Dies smears

and medicine, and the story is fine fa brilliant videa toni one day_ the} aiendants at the “square dance in| day nite?

‘up to the place where he leaves,

Atizatie would be erossed by steam

‘ sehool..to..follow the light of his boats. and together they worked ,
1 think it was for 3v yards. The next day Names. Me-brewbents witnesses. He raids lire to China, but trom there on| out their imagimative wsision into, W it Mi t
newspapers ‘irom all parts of the country Ptivate correspondence. He does everything . the story is a little fantastic. Never-|a detinite reatty. Their seeing al a Inu e — —

dbiazed his name in headlines and stated that
this 56 yard jaunt was one of the finest runs

that is undemoeratie and unpalatable to ad-
voeates of democraey. Not only would Mr.

theless the picture is.an excellent,

‘and Akim Taminoii is splendid as!

stories told here in inten-ely dra-
thauie fotm, and tne story of ‘the

By .FRANK BARKER

. . . Dies b at oy . ;the Vienese physician whose life first erossing Ly a steam boat is: .
ever seen in a major football game. They tes e wasung the public's money <in in- is wrapped up in his work, and is~beautitully portrayed. with. Doug! SCHOOL ALMA MATER .. .| First, out of admiration and respect
said he did it on his own—no blocking help- vestigating collegesi. he would be making [che mést iniluential person in the. Fatiianis, Jr. leading the all-star} “Davidson, our Alma Mater”, byj ior the general and second, for rea-

ed him out. Yet, Jater when pictures of
the game prdved that the little Tennessee

himseh a publie nuisance and menace.’—
The-Ambhers: College Student attacked

lite of our young hero, John How-| cast.

ard. Dorothy Lamour is traty fine |

Wednesday, December 13

Fred Waring and Company seems

sons of propaganda and advertising.

jto have been laid away on the| The name sounds well, and. it does

: . . “a . i i ivati 2} . as usual) as the American. girl: tot shelf for some reason. Even though a great deal to spread its fame,
haltback did receive aid from «his burly ne fe ome. thing one gut these words: sho has een reared in Chima. . _ “The Secret of Dr. Kildare:” Lew everyone may not like this song, it. Mr. Kostrukoff said. And by the
mates, they still heralded the run as the 8 ee — Saturday, December 9 + Avress—buna—-Turnerand dionell certainly looks like the musical de-. way, there certainly was_a_fine
mast “sparkling gem of the _the season. vestigaltes members of the. communist party 4% : marymeore. i partment could hive sung it in represeiitation from tbe student

We don’t agree. OU course course we didn't see for subversive devivities, and anotlier Wwiien | “Lollano Kid” : The newest in this popular Series, , chapel so_we comtt teente tor-ours body to-hearthe-con certintt-was-50e—

—— Butler's run and we didn't see a whole lot it turns to edueation, the single greatest | Right new picture, anil a cows [and certainly as good Ay any ot the) selves which song we wanted. All! well .spent—

i

but_by the brilliance of their voices blended
* into a human organ,
Congratulations to the music départment .

Of such runs made througkout the country
during the course of the football season but
weid lay our hat and boots that there wasn’t
any beuer execeuted trip to pay dirt than
that made by our Tubby Hand Saturday
against Wake Forest.

essential of democraey. Any injury to the

boy one at that. so can't find Oar

ireedom of edueation is striking at the dife—-anxthiog about ic, Rut it war sub:

blood of demoeraey.”

The MeRPherson ~ College Spectator
brought the possible results of the investi-
gation home to-its readers in this manner:

stituted for a inighty good peture.
so.it must be really tine, And don’t
iorget The Lore anger is setts on
the loose.

canner

Wat have precéded if. 17
ahout a preuy “dancing coed” who | !

Ones

gentus of Low Ayres and the prae~ .
uce ot Liore! Barrymore to bring | :

her back to par.
A

‘yor cus know tkat we need an
Mater badly, and it seems that we |

ball game. but to my knowledge the -
tune so graciously written—for us
| hap never been ‘sung in chapel ‘or

i

ect weil, and it takes the , have two of them to pick irom. Wei weil, ihe season
heard one during the hait of a foot- -most

Atina-+-————

FAREWELL TO FOOTBALL...
is all over for
teams. including Davidson,
and the Bowi games will climax
the season in a few weeks. It looks

stike MISSOURI and Georgia Tech

- . . * “It the committee should invesngate Mc) _ played “on the Tootball Tield: Out | dow iT Miz “PEN NESSEE-and—
re © hin aac revelved Blocking but Pherson College, judging by previous meti- QUOTABLE QUOTES che resultant eis -of stupidity and. of pure courtesy to Fred Waring Southern California out in Pase-
é also hipped and faked several Demons i :

- out of the picture. Tle even stopped, back-
ed up _ivo steps,

— the striped line was reached._
Personaliy we could think of nothing bet-~~

and started again before

ter than to see wre moving pictuces of this
run by Tubby. Why don't someone suggest
to the coaches a plan whereby the pictures
can be shown at some gathering.

oO
The Russians

The Russians eame, captured the campus,
and left! Not by the use of dreadful: can-
non, guns, aerial bombardments, or force

for bringing to our quaint old campus these

ods, they probably would {ind that the his-
tory classes are wsing subversive propagan-

_— er when they stair the Russiasystem of

communism, the Italian corporate state, the
German version of National Socialism, and
the Japanese System of totalitarianism. And
economie classes would be scored for dis-
cussing the possibility of a communistic
economy, the abolition of the price system,
the replacement of the capitalistic ideal with
some better methods. The right of discus-
sidn and the right to freedom of speech and
assembly are inherent and must be retained
in a democracy. Any attempt at denying
that right is in-itself an un-American activ-
ity.”

In an editorial letter to Mr. Dies,
tniversity of Pittsburgh News hinted at a
possible explanation of the congressman’s

_
the

scared about what they think Ger-

j are limitations to all things;

| days.”

“Never allow yourself to become |
a ‘case’ if you can help it: and nev-

That's the trouble with too many

‘people. They froth at the mouth
because they're reading the same —

newspaper too much, They get all,

many's going to do. They get_all

, worried about ‘reds’ in the country.

They get frothed.up about what's
going to become of democracy. And
all the time they forget that there |

that
there always is a balance to every-|
thing.” Harvard University's famed
poet, Robert Frost, says that's the
reason his liie has been “all holi-
. whether lie’s “working or
playing. i

“YT firmly believe that an. -inte--

withe mouth about thins crete o¢—Noreineestern—tiriversite’s

‘done

; virtues of honesty into our tnethods. .

Jithat we have been steeped in ‘the

— aupersuition and quackery and need- ,
less sutfeting " is the mission ‘of the |
university ot tomorrow. That's the.

new presidtnt,
Snyder.

Dr. r—Eranklya Bliss -
o |
—______-: -

“A job weli done is one that is
with honesty and integrity.
Setting a goal jor ourselves and
accomplishing it can mean nothing
tif we do-not intase.,the age-old

Dishonor in trival things soon leads i
19 deceitful action-in major. issues,
and we suddenly awaken-to.the fact

| think. we might try it!
GENERAL PLATOFF
name was at the top of ‘the Cos-

™,

night, and 1 doubt if many knew
what. it was. Mr.c Kostrukoff said
when asked which one in the choir
he was, that General Platoff was
the jiamous Russian General, who
opposed Napoleon during his ag-
gressive campdign against Russia.
The irame is used for two reasons:

this.

dena; and TULANE vs. Texas A.
& M. down: in the Sugar Bow! in
New Orleans. (1 just had to have

SICK Coir thar santg— tere story ——xtresouri wins thts tet ett eee

we've ever had a team to win the
Big Six).— And with the end ot
ioothall comes the inevitable -has-_
kethall season. From the faces of
some of the team this Afternoon it
was evident that Coach Shepherd
had slapped some sort of a pledge
on the boys. Too bad, Gook !

“

, ident-emeritus William Allan Neil-

son of Smith College chides col-
legians for their stand on thé af-

ignominy of a corrupt set of mor-| fairs of the day.
als.” Lawrence College's Président |.
Barrows urges collegians to’ main-
[ie lionor above all else.

tion is for a venturesome and crea-
tive outlook on the problems of

o

j_ "The great nééd Of this genera>)

University of Richmond fratern-_
ity men have a new title for Sally
Rand, and thereby hangsa story:

When the college administration
ruled that all Greek groups. must
have housemothers, clever Kappa
Sigma wired the fan dancer:

“Sorry to hear of your financial

. . ° . P ‘“For the moment the attitude of | our day. The great problems of

singing Russians. It was the first of such _| move; “We realize that you (Mr. Dies) are grated study of the social sciences | academic youth seems to be so } social- adjustment and the challenge Bur come on down and live with
performances that did not receive some a wholly disinterested researcher when you and the humanities win cave ti largéiy seli-centered that one] of scientific discovery .in the social us.

criticism and we do believe that the entire come to examine our colleges and universit- ble. to the prevailing. shibboteths, | Jo¥bts whether the form in which’ as well as the natural sciences re-| We have to get a new house moth-
school wouldn’t have been better satisfied ies, That of the @ college journals we read, | clinches and slogatis regarding race, Pactismr-wns-brought-to-them -dur— uiro—the.same. sort—of- daring as er,.

if they had heard Glenn Miller in person. only one little school has commended you, |creeds and political programs. | "8. these years was the best for | the pioneer exhibited. And the pio-| And we'd rather have you than

_- Extremely delightful was the appearance while about 43 school papers have denounc- Stereotyped thinking if swifter and. thelr (spiitual wealth. ane young eer did eraemasacanien pat “any other.” —— — .
- of, the sword dancer and the dances pre- | ed your actions has, of course, nothing to | [ess Painful, but it is fat more dan- th safety first and the old h

—sented by members of the Choir.

It was
an evening well spent and entertainment

\

do with your sudden determination to ex- .

‘pose those hotbeds of radicalism, the Ameri

gerous in thesé days when adapt-

‘|ability is necessary for survival.”-

cerned with safety first and the old wrought his miracles of conquent.”
men, with $30 every Thirsday.| Vanderbilt University’s Chancellor |’

|

Indiana University has a special
series of lectures to acquaint un-

; en Dr. E. S. Burdell, director of Coop- Peace that is not-the crown of jus-| O. C. Carmichael believes that se- organized students with extracur-
well worth the price of admission. can Institutions of higher learning. Come | er Union, asks for less “engin” in tice and liberty is a peace that can-| curity should be only the by-pro-| ricutar activities. ; "
_. Fortunate, indeed, we were to have a |'on, Mr. Dies, we're waiting.” “‘And so, as engineering. _ , | mot last, and it would have been ; duct of a well-ordered life. ————_—__e—__——_
i ) . ~ an ~~ ymore mspiring- i our young men a Ohio State University fraternity
chance to hear this faméys group—the Don we said in the beginning, Mr. Dies ss due iT) dispel, little by little, the fog | and women today had been more| University of Wisconsin scientists | pledges—have—an o ennaal “Ditch
~ - : —have—a
Cossac r M. Pp’ ee mre—from the of ignorance that envelops human- concerned with justice and liberty | are conducting research on fossils| Night” on which they defy the rul-
. tion’s collegians ¢ ity, and that brings with it all than with that daté back to 199,998,000 B. C.

ad

rn" own safety.” Pres-

ings of the actives.
