Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thurs., Feb. 22, i940

i

TONY CASALI
JIM CURRIE ...--....-..--.-. -

~The PBavidsonian —

-alt other phases -of open politics.

Founded By the Class of 1915-—~ —— |

1938 Member. 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distnbutor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The 6
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPREDENTEO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative |
420 MADISON AVE. New Yorw. N.Y.
CHicaco * BOSTON » LOS ANGELES * SAM Faancisco

ri

Enter 4 ystsecond-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson;

North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd. 1879.

vesecen seen se ecereeseeceeresee EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
“UT BUSINESS MANAGER

DITORIAL STAFF"

ack Abernatby....-......- -Assistant Edi

tach. Tambaruer os lanaging Editor
Tom Cauble Lanaging Editor
Jou Liles fanaging Editor
md Watsor -Managing Kditor
Lawson Withers one Managing Editor
Andy Dale 22.2.2 --nne cena cee en enn eee cece eee ee ieee Sports Editor
Brie Austin .4. --Associate Editor
Jack Holland -Associate Editor
Karl -Iiudson-- -Associate Editor
Sam Spencer . -Associate Editor
Bothy William -ee.- Movie Editor

Angus Lytch

Fred

“stati Photog.

~ rapher
ges Pp

BUSI NESS STA

Herbert Codington 2...2..0... ec caneceee Asst. Byginess Manager
Cassy Joes vo... a2 ---Advertising Manager
Hector Mclean ww -Advertising Manager
Fidredge Brown Circulation Manager*
Jack -Coving‘on trculation Manager

hittle 2...

-Cdéllection. gblanager

A~ Good Chance To Present}

Your Ideas...

Tonight the YMEA-Eabinet-wilt sponser

“the second in a series of panel discussions

on subjects’ vital to both campus life and.
life after the campus has been Jeft behind.
The topic under consideration tonight will
be "The @roblem of Compulsory Attendance
upon Religious Exercises.”

The Davidsonian has no desire to insert
itseli into these discussions -by setting jorth
its opinions,one way or the other. Rather,
we would. simply, choose io point out the -
obvious fact that the problem of cofnpul-
sory attendance upon religious exercises is,
a highly controversial question. And, that it
is a basis upon which a:great deal of-stu
dent.dissatistaction kas its foundation. We
would, alsa. urge that every member of the
student botiv attend these diseussions if
it be possible.

“was upon “The Christiam Attitude Toward

War.” Whether anyone came away from
that meeting with amy definite idea as to
what his beiiet on the subject. we do not
know. However, ideas were proposed,

argued, and explained and there was a-bit_|

of that neglected thing called thinking donc
when the smoke. -had cleared away. Both.
students and faculty alike were clated over

‘the enjoyment and the benetiis they 1-7

ceived from the diseussion. ———_

--_ Ifyou ke geom bull session! with facul-

ty men as well as students. be, at-the Phi.

Nall tonight ar wingva'cloek ancl _let’s see’

just how things stand as to this compul-

sory church and chapel question. _—
6 2

We- Explain Our: Proposed

System

Fy

“Much has been said both Pro and con re-
garding the cleansing of polities a1 David-
son.. For over a month and a half these

colamns have been filled with many ideas

on the subiect. .We have tried to present 2
clear and uabiased discussion of ‘the sub-
jest, and all persons who wanted+io print -
their ideas were granted the privilege. Last
week the DAVIDSONIAN came out defin-
itely in favor of. control-by~an elections -
board. On the front page, you will find a
list of the proposed amendments that have
been presented-to-the Student Council.

It is our opinion that, regardless of the
type or form of elections, the method should
be clearly stated in the constitution. In
this way the entire student body agrées to
the method, and it is not left to a small

. group or board to decide, dictate. the form,

and judge the validity of an election. The
students, themselves, should ‘decide the
method, make the rules and limitations,
agree on the punishments for infractions of
rules, and leave it.to the elections board to
act as a supreme court, who has final juris-
diction in election controversies,

We believe that everyone is in favor of
the central ballot system; but ballots must

be signed, in order that it will be possible _

to investigate the votes, if irregularities -
should happen to arise. Naturally, the box-
es should be in a central location where ac-
cess is easy. Also plenty of time should be.
given the student to vote. The student
must drop it in a locked box himself, which

‘solicitation of votes. Moreover, it limits
No one
can buy votes, issue circulars, pass out
cigars, purchase advertising space in the
DAVIDSONIAN. or go to any clection ex-
pense.. Also it limits the students from
having mass mectings and campaign specch-
es. This should be-fully in accord with
-Davidson -and_its_traditions, since it is a
-small school and any form of campaigwing
is superfluous. It is also in accord, because
Davidson desires and demands truth.

This elections board will officially handle

“all elections according to the strict provis-

. | daction of a true vote.
Editor

The first: ot tis Stries—ottiiseussions ——strrtent botiy project. But we want a plan

/ eliminates the absentee ballot controversy
-and the locked box gives everyone the as-
surance that his voté’has not been lost.
When the box is under the constant care
of a councilman or member of elections
board, the student ~also has confidence in
the ‘election.

The petition presented is a defined sys-
tem of political control. It clearly makes
combines and cliques illegal, as well as the

"group.

‘has honestly tried to cope with the si

ions in the Constitution. It will have no
“implied” powers, but only those clearly
stated in the Constitution. It will be a rep-

resentative body_forjust such_aduty..[Each_

fraternity is represented by a senior mem-
bers non-fraternity men are. represented
from the senior class, and the student coun-
cil has two. senior members to assure: that
everything. is carried off under the honor
system, Every member of the student body
and every candidate for office: will have a
representative on the board. Members of
the board are clected; and not appointed;
which eliminates the possibility of influence.
All votes wilf be counted in Chambers by
the board. whteh. gives evervbody the satis-

eee

| CAMPUS CAMERA

/

- FOR
MASSACHUSETTS
STATE COLLEGE

aG 5

-— The DAVIDSONTAN @oes -on -record- as—

heartily recommending the adoption of cach

—section and article proposed as amendments
‘to our Constitution. We singercly believe,

that -it

is -fair,—true, unbiased, and demo
cratic. mo :

Reasons For Election Board:

During the extensive discussion of the

proposed plan “for a new election -set-up—

it has come to our attention that many stu-

GZ - ries cz
WML Qi =} ry oe
G ON SENG et eS

Oe ite (
ty Viz (eA Set (a
ee “

Came

“GLEANINGS -

“WOPLD'S YOUNGEST |
FRATERNITY BROTHER

Pete Brown vk yf 7.2 OLD SON
OF THE GAS" COACH AT
COLORACO SI COLE oF QE EDUCA-
TON, TOOK THE PUL ILLIA
PSI AND SIGHED THE: OFTiMicn |

AITH HIS HANDPRINT /

dents -belteve-that-the purpose. ofthe plan
is to take elections out of the hands of the
Student Council and merely to -back—the-
council down, term it as an incompetent

group, and take away its prestige. If

we have conveyed these ideas in our dis-
cussign, it has been uaintentional. We want
to-work with the counedl, not against it, in
outlining a pian that will. weed ‘out the
evils Ol Gur Dresent sel-up. We- sincerely
helieve taat the Couneii ts competent and

“decisions handed down dy chem in the past

have been honest. unbiased. and fair:

Unfortunately th—plencteviced to run our
elections as they shoul be run calls for an
“fleetion Board” lo handle the entire situa-
tion and take altogether from the hands of
the Studeim Council the unpleasant task of
roptpolliy: 4H Our reasons are sound,
we sincerely believe.

Qi course wae Council is’ the governite
group of tre student body and theoretically
it is they who should contro}. elections. 2!

whereby Davidson can have an cleetoral-
set-up that contains no flaws. Such a phan
should insure ‘the student body against
the unrest, strain and unpleasantness, that
has been charactcristie of previous elec-
tions. The plan would insure us against tke
unnecessary gripes and howls of defeated
candidates and their backing groups, for
each candidate does Rave backing groups.

) Hof this canbe dgne onty one sity by

having a central group that has representa-

‘tion from ail groups concernedy an, Elecsh

tion Board.

Of course the Student Couneil. theorcti--
cally, is a central group and does have .
equal representation front the stucent body.
But during ke election period the student.
body cannot be termed as 650 individuals,

it is termed as 10-groups. nine fraternity _
and one non-fraternity groups. [It has been_|

this way and_always will be so.. Each of
the ten groups are striving to elect for
the various offices a member from his”

~ These _ten groups cause numerous. con-.

fliets between one another. Shouts of pro-
tests and claims of illegal practices are
thrown from one group to another. In the
past we sincerely believe that the Council
ina-
tion, satisfy the grieviences of the groups,
and—hand down unbiased decisions, but
those groups that have no representation

on the Council sometimes feel, and they

can naturally do so, that since they have
no representation they haven’t got a fair
shot at the final decision. The defeated
gtoup can say that if the Mu’s and Xetas
combine to beat \them in an election and
are caught and brought to trial, they would
naturally go farther with their representa-
tion on the ‘Council to absolve themselves
of all guilt since the defeated group has no
representation whatsoever. :

Thus the real reason for taking the elec-
tions from the hands of the Council, which
does not have equal_representation as far
as the 10 groups on..the campus are con-
cerned, and putting elections in the hands of
an Election Board, which will have an equal
number of representatives from each group,
is clearly visible. It gives no opening for
the cries of those who think that simply
because he hasn't a frat brother on the
Council he was gypped. It’ gives no loop--
hole for a considerate amount of complaints
and gripes that accompanies all Davidson
elections. It will make every person in
every group feel that they have had an
honest decision because they have a man
on ‘the ruling body to seg that they are
dealt with squarely, .

Thus the real reason for wanting to take
the elections from the Council is stated and
such silly reasons as merely wanting to
overthrow and ridicule the group are en-
tirely false.

By

&THLETICS . . , this seems to
rhe ihe hard luck year for the Da-
vidson teams. Take football for
inSlance:_first we lose to State by
(four points after out-playing them
the whole game. We did ‘score on
Duke, and taht sept our stock sail-
ihg high again. bur V. M. J. beat
up 2 points. fallowed by defeat at
the Lands of South Carolina when
qwe thonght we might win. We]
played Eurman to a_0-0 deadlock
unul Une last foar minutes and then
they heat us by 1S podets and ahere.
is.no need=to bring up the Wake
Forest game. We did whip The
Citadel Homecoming: Day to make
that week-end aif ure more pleas--;
apt, but she cain rather dampencd :
theeaffair. And toothail ended with
Davidaen. having two marks in the
win column,

Now basketbali vis well uf
Way and the records show 3
to 10 defeats. There was that-ctose

- Tex

__. Wait a

FRANK BARKER

HE 5 DAILY NEWS STAFF OF
NEV UNIV. DISTRIBUTED 30.000__
COPIES OF THEIR PAPER AT THE NYU.~
ECRDHAM GAME LAST FALL IN YASIKEE «
STADIUM. ILWAS THE LARGEST SINGLE ....
ISSUE OF ANY COLLEGE PAPER /

Min a
nute :

According to the track captain,
they will not lose a single meet this
year and that sounds very promis-
ing, Graham McFadyen is the
shining light of .the wrostling team,
‘undeteated in competition this year
Tand champion in his division mn the
State tournament.

Next year’s football schedule looks
like what we've been wanting for

~/“Sub-Brain” Means ever to write

‘| mighty anxious to trip the

Saturdayand_ had, not

heiress on his return to Davidson.

Labout their doings in Blacksburg.

a long die. Teams of our owns

size aad strength with the same
support that our schools. give in the
way of athletic scholarships! Sew-
anee, Citadel, South Carolina, Fur-
man. and V. .M. I. But there is
still, the mwairy with ‘Duke and
the University of North Carolina
as a drawing card, Next year should
certainly find us on the brighter
side of the win column than ever.
hefore, Mere’s hoping.
THUMB NAIL SKETCH

ged ene of the money bag. twins and a
wily | high mogul of plutocracy in the

Veta —stmts Originator of various

By MELVIN MEANS

ye
GUEST COLUMNIST??7____

Another weck, more dirt, and an+
other guest columpist. Isn't Melvin

his own column ayain? Perhaps
threats have caused him to shift
the responsibility to others, or may-
be he is “getting-lazy—in his -old
age. Anyway here goes for better
or worse ... As usual the “bum-
ming” corner was full of boys this
past week-end going North, South,
East, and West in search of solace
and comfon in the arms of beauti-
ful danisels. Ah me!

~ Off to Agnes Scott went “Whis-
-key Bob" Finley and “Bashful”
Chase LPrenizer. They seemed
light
fatitastic with their lady loves. . .
Jack Covington. and Nelson Jen-
nette whipped up to Greensboro
one, but
three dates apiece during the day:

TAT WICH Covington tad-a~btind |

date whom he discovered. was an

. Reports have it that Philip
[edwards ‘is still faithful -to —his
Love although she done him wrong.
. A quict. (2?) week-end was
spent on the campus by ‘Bird Dog”
Crichton in the company of charm-
fing females. An open fire at~the
$.A.E. house was enjoyed by: all.
“. . A certain Beta, named Mat-
ahews is mighty interested in a mys-
‘terions Miss Booger at Converse.
... The wrestling team, back from
V. P. £, is mighty close-mouthed

All the dancing,
snaking seem to indicate a busy
Saturday night Where was
“Chicken” Cooper Sunday? After
his speech_in chapel Saturday a-
bout Sunday school-we expacted-to
see him there—but, alas! “Chicken”
was at Carolina . And speaking
i Carolina, the majority of the
Davidson s‘wild-hairs” attended the
Carolina “Mid-Winters” to enjoy
the music of Glenn Grey and _ his
orchestra. Among the rug-cutters
seen on the dance floor were Bib
Coltrane, “Wild Bill! Egan, Major
Stuart Roszoe Ogtesby, Matt Long,
Tommy Lane, and other luminaries
of the campus

cluded.
a

late-dating and

celebration with a Chambers ban-
quet on Saturday night. Highlight
of the affair was Dr. Oren Moore’s
efficient pérformance as_ toast-
‘master... “Bustle” Holland bump-
ed around the campus during the
week-end and kept the local Fam-
ous Door open for business. Strange
to sce him. bumping around the
campus during the week-end...
Why is Walter Wooten called “Jug”
by his campanions? We'll give you
tbree guesses .. . The Moe Ghouls
were unusually quiet this week-
end. Must be the calm before the
storm...

At last Doug Dillard can smile
again. R. O. Kellogg has turned
his love interests- to Yankecland
and Dillard is freé to go Grceens-
boroing again ... What does the
basketball team do besides play
basketball on their trips? All, re-,
ports indicate that_they_indulge_in__
‘some form of pleasantry—The Cita-
def dances were particularly ea.
joyed by certain individual basket-
ballers whose names we are not
permitted to reveal N. A,
“Boa-Constrictor” Scott, the silver
voiced orator, was at home this
week-end wooing Geldsboro's love-
ly Martha’ Danicl. What a line he |
must hand out ©. > Billy Masters
was seen at the freshman baskét-—_
ball game Saturday night in the *
pleasant company of Julia Hobbs.
Fortunate man . >. The Military
Ball_is_onfy_iwo_weeks away and
all you guys had better hurry and
get tickets ... This set is always
one of the most popular and the
military figure adds much color
and -glamour_to- the. event. Boscoe
and the Pan-Hell boys have secur-
ed Dean Hudson -and his band for
the set. The popularity of IHudson
‘is unsufpasséd “on the campus, so _
let’s all turn out to hear him, and
enjoy a session of sweet and swing.
..» Confuciiis say: if all girls who
attend Davidson Mid-Winters were
laid end to end, it be some spread.
In fact. now that. Chick Smith has
left school, rumor has it that Thom-
as Percival Johnston, IE, is striv-
Ing frantically to lure his voluptous
child Sride down out of the moun-

The Betas con-} tains of cast Tényessee again for .
a successful anniversary | the sjext setof dances, 7

Murphys-Mumb!

igs

4 ‘Lhus_the two_main—sports. oi. the living in Chartott

game in Charlotte with Carolina jwips to Sweetbriar and Lynchburg
coming dut on top at the end andy and vicinity; hard worker and good
ure 33-32 defeat with Richmond be-| natured, except when teased be-
fore Carisimas. the conference | yand- endurance. Varsity Tootball
tournament in Raleigh is out fous | playes of repute with several bro-
now after our placing last year. ithers, atnts, uncles, cousins, ctc.,
ce. Often seen with

college year are about« over. | Biggie.”

* Broadway ~Meledy__Of_ 1940”:

By BOB WILLIAMS

tT Haviland, Dame May Whitty, Dud-
ley Digges, Douglas Walton, Lionel
Vape, and E. S. Clive

Thursday and Friday
-7 Feb. 22 and 23

—

> David Niven steps neatly in the —

part _of Raiiles,_a_crooked_gent,_

ow

«

Tips For News And Feature
—_ Editors
The _Uni . {Texas _Dai
Texan bmilt a fine feature by -get-
ting the tow-down on the slang
used by the soda dispensers in the
local jelly joints. Might try it
some time. a
<The Wniversity—of=— Wyoming
Beanding Iron went back into the
fites of faculty rulings on student
conduct—and found a swell fcature.
Sample paragraph from the story:
“One carly’ faculty member moved
that any student should be disniisse
who was ‘failing in Ofie ‘subject, if
the failure was caused by dissipa-
tion or social pleasure’.” _
The Oregon State Barometer re-

cently interviewed campus big-wigs 5

about the five books they would
like to have above all others. It’s
an old gag, but a good way to
get new names in the paper.
Tip: How-many different kinds
of degrees are granted by your in-
stitution and what does each one
mean?

Seventh Annual Student Peace
Demonstration Against War
The United States Peace Com-
mittee has announced the date of
the seventh annual student peace
demonstration ‘against war—Friday,

Aprit 19. ‘

The first demonstration was held
April 6, 1934, at which time several
thousand students participated in a
Strike against war, and demonstrat-
ed their opposition to measures
which lead to war.-—~

Each year, the demonstration is
held in April as near to the sixth
of the month as possible, as it was
on April 6, 1917 ‘that the United
States entered the World War.

It is estimated that a million stu-
dents will demonstrate this year
that the “Yanks Are Not Coming”
to aid in the present imperialist
massacre in Europe. They will be

— | oe
--Parade_of Opinion:

By Associated Collegiate Press

Call ad

joined from coast to coast by non-
student groups—-youth of al! oc-
cupations—who are determined to
live, not dic, for democracy. — ——
° Check Up On“Posture

Ti you can do it, here’s the way
lo check upon your own posture,
according to Dr. Ruth Bass, Uni-
yersily of Texas physical cducation
professor.

Drop an imaginary line from you
ear =to..the ground. —1f{—it— falls
through your shoulder, hip and
knee, when standing, anc through
}your shoulder and hip when sit-
ting, you're on ‘the right, track.
Néxt make sure that both your
‘head and chest “push” up, that your
abdomen pulls in.

’ Then relax the parts of -the body
not in-use.
Paper Establishes Publicity
Council

To aid campus groups in pre-|
paring and. executing their public
relations program, the University
of, Chicago Daily Maroon has estab-
lished a special publicity council
headed by John Stevens. When
asked to comment about this new
idea in college—newspaper work,
Mrw Stevens said:

“The council serves as an ad-
visory, board for all campus groups
desiring publicity. We have com-
piled information concerning all
types of publicity which have been
used in the past., This information
includes the effectiveness of cach
of the types of publicity, the meth-
ods of organizing the various typ-
es, and the official red tape which
must be complied with. In general,
therefore, we serve as an informa-
tion bureau to which publicity-
minded organizations may turn to
find out what they should do and
how they should do it. In addition,
we expect to give advice on story-
planning and methods of releasing
news.” Se .

Fred Astairé” Eleanor Powell,

‘aonercrinongeleraiik. Morgan, Jan Uunter, Flor-

ence Rice, Lynne Carver and
George Murphy.

Another issue of this annual mu-
sical that grows in tradition with
each succeeding year, because it

has been appearing since long be-

year scem to be the “best in the
musical ‘entertainment, an@ __thi
year it is no exception, because
the fidgety feet of Fred Astaire and
the electric extremities of Eleanor
Powell is just aboyt, anybody's
idea of a captivation combination.
Of course the plot is nothing’ intri-
cate, and no one expects it_to.be,
because after all the pugpose of the

and he folltws his fellow English-9
man, Ronald Colman; in this role.
[le’s a card as the “amateur
cracksman.” He's smooth, iearless,
and utterly fascinating, easing his
way- out of one robbery—alter_an-
other. He apparently thas no mo-
tive for his thefts, because he does

fore. most of oun memories can re- {hot need the money, and he scem-
cal, <M.>G. M.'s selections cach | Bly gets no kick out of the burg-

laries, but he merely seems to be
a kleptomaniac. When the brother:
ot Olivia de Taviland, whom Niven.
loves kt it (rouble, Niven gives
his all to help, only to wet caught
in a neap trap. —

Thursday, February 27
x

%

“Over The Moon”: Merle Ober-

picture is to show off the talents of | on.

the two leading stars for-the pur-j;— One of the newest and gayest-of—
pose of entertainment. (Side note:|the cinema productions, and it 2X
Ask any member of Dr, Foreman’s | So new that there is nothing known

Philosophy 42 if this picture would | about it, but -with

Miss Oberon

have dramatic aesthetic beauty if|in the.starring role it is bound to
you really want in on the dope).|to be well worth seeing.

1f you like to laugh, and to hear
good songs by Cole Porter, and to
watch the greatest dancers of our
times don't miss this production.

Saturday, February 24
es

Double feature with “Nick Cart-
er, Master Detective” starring Wal-

ter Pidgeon, Rita Johnson, Henry|2%¢ Sheila Bromley.

Hull, Stanley C. Ridges, Donald
Mack, and- Addison Richardson.
This is about a famous detective
and his steuthing tricks, t we!
want to warn you that this isn't
the old Nick Carter of ten-cent
paper-backed thrillers, popular in
Pop’s day, but that old Nick has
been modernized and streamlined
into a 1940 version of sophistocat-

but we] seg

Wednesday, February 28
* “yy
Bargain Day and Double Featare
“Calling Philo Vance”:

Stephenson, Margot
Henry O'Neill,

James
Stevenson,
Edward Brophy,

This is, about a great detective .
who solves an international crime.
Despite the. fact that. this is the
ond time that a movie has been
made from S. S. Van Dine’s “The
Kennel Murder Case” and that Jam-
es Stephenson is the fourth actor to
play the role of Philo Vance, this
picture has a new angle in that

ed steuther, hot after the spies Philo gets a new interpretation for

who stole the blue prints for the|the solution of the crime. The be-
airplane factory. Walter Pidgeon is| ginning is laid in Vienna and is
the handsome, debonair detective, rather confusing,. but back on the_

Inay Rita Johnson is his leading | home grounds of America the story

Late Show Saturday night, 10:30 gets going in fine shape with Philo
and Monday, Feb. 26 solving the murder mystery that

eee has its foundation in foreign intri-

“Raffles”: ‘David Niven, Olivia de| gue. This is a good “who-dunnit.”
