Page Two

THE

DAVIDSONIAN

Thurs. Oct. 24, 1946

The PDabvidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

Member

Associaled Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION

|
|
|
|
|
Printed By The |
RATES |

Y OPENS SOCIAL ROOM

In a story elsewhere in. the paper the
announcement is made that the YMCA so-
cial room will be open during the Home-
coming week-end, and that a
Saturday

“feed” will be
afternoon for non-fra-
Also, a ‘letter
this
to be-

held there

men and their dates.
the Pan-Hellenic Council
and urges non-fraternity
ot the fact that the
as much as for fraternity

ternity
from
fact,

Ce me

states
men

aware dances are

for them men.

In past years non-fraternity men have at-

tended Davidson dances in good numbers,

as they should, but too often they have felt
that. a date was more thon could be han-
dled under the existing circumstances. The

traternities have always welcomed non-fra-

A GUY CANT DO
BETTER THAN
20 MILES AN
(Hour ON THESE
WET Ra40s /

Clear Weather, Dry Roads
Scene of’ Most Accidents

DAY’S
DIARY

BY

BILL LEMMON

There is not very much dope
passing around this week as most
lof the BMOC’s such as Whiskey
|Bob Finley are waiting for the
jdances to look over the crop for
|prospective “lates.”

“One Punch Herbie” (The Her-

|mit) Codington, of Green fame of

his David-

before

the
dope

discovery to

catches

prove
the
Yehudi, the
the junior class are
two football
and Vosburg.
was holding this dope

sonian

anybody else. or re-

cent artists of
no than man-
Paul

feature

other
agers—Freeze
as a
of his ash can material,

TRUE AMERICANISM

Today, in a time of doubts and fears, of

world strife and conflict, the flag-wavers

have again risen. Since time began there

have been those who rush madly toward

thé sound of martial music with patrioti¢
emotions flooding their shallow breasts,
while content to sit idly by during more
peaceful times, doing nothing to help de-

stroy the seeds of revolution and war.

that Americans
have too long let satisfaction with affairs
The

along with his neighbors,

It is a deplorable. fact

as they are be their theme. average

person, has cul-
tivated this trait, until the great majority
little

about trends of the times,

of our people knew and cared less

national life, and

the government.

Since Europe has become involved in-a

bloody battle, our nationalistic, spirit’ has
arisen several thousand per cent. Every-
where columnists, lecturers, politicians,

and the newspapers are pounding away at
the need for preparedness, defense, isolation
of the Western Hemisphere, and hundreds
of other pet ideas. It has:come to the point
where this is necessary,“and because it is
it is fortunate that our citizenry
is at least capable of partly arousing itself
in time of national emergency.

necessary,

But true
the nationalistic shouts which must arise in
time of crisis. Our real patriots are those
who have consistently worked for d better
and more secure national life in peace as
well as in more troubled times. The few who
have worked-toward this end throughout
the quiet years are more nearly representa-
tive of true Americanism, than all those who
now come forward to lend their hands and

voices to national needs. Our peacetime pa-
triots—perhaps the man next door, perhaps
the doctor, perhaps the minister, or the
business man—are all but forgotten in the
wild rush -toward-nationalism-brought-on-by
fear of war. Our wartime patriots are, un-
fortunately, a necessity, but the true spirit
of the American is better displayed by him
who has steadily and loyally given‘his best
toward building a sound national life.

Americanism is’ far more than

_ True Americanism is not that. sporadic
patriotism displayed in time of crisis, ready

to die for one’s country if need—be, but
rather it is that intelligent, deliberate, con-
sistent giving of one’s best toward build-
ing a national life wherein the inalienable

‘rights of the citizen are assured.

as it has been for several rea-

sons.

While not many students will eventually
go into the field of the stage atid dramatic
productions, there is far more than direct
training. for these things to be gained from
the presentation study of plays and
stage productions. Acting offers a great op-

and

portunity to overeome-such-prevalént faults”

as self-consciousness, bad pronunciation,
nervousness, lack of poise and various other
things. Any course or activity which’can be
used to remedy such habits or bad features
of a person’s makeup will naturally be of
great service to him. dramatics,
like all other activities, is useful as a means
of contact with other persons, a highly im-
portant phase of a well-rounded education.

Then too,

Under the direction of Mr. Bringel, dra?
matics at Davidson should reach a new
“high.” It has been hard for those students
interested in drama to accomplish much
without some guiding hand to give expert
advice and criticism. The faculty advisers
have worked hard ahd given their best,
but obviously a man who has made a thor-
ough study of the subject and also has a
well-grounded working knowledge can im-
part his ideas and criticism to others more
clearly.

Any activity which goes forward, as dra-
matics now does, betters Davidson’s life.
And extracurricular activities are a large
part.of her “life.” Therefore, we wish good
success to Mr. Bringel as he begins his work
at Davidson, and congratulate the adminis-
tration for securing’such a man,

ALMA MATER SITUATION

Last Friday Davidson’s student body vot-
ed not to adopt either of the two proposed
Alma Maters, but to continue to use “O
Davidson” as such, and this decision came
after due consideration by: all concerned,
since both songs were presented three times
during the chapel period.

We will not be entirely satisfied with the
Alma Mater situation until there is a more

suitable one than “O Davidson,” becatise

we do not believe that song to be entirely
suited to the purpose. But it is well to know
that some action has been taken after a
much too long delay. Putting it off did no
good, and now at least we know where we
stand—exactly where we started. The music
| department is, to be commended for-work-
ing so hard to present:these songs properly,
even thotigh either failed to be selected,
The: long delay in action was probably ex-
cusable, ‘but it is much better to know that
something definite has at last been done.

| subjects

this, and will enjoy the Homecom-
ing Dances with us.

Each fraternity will maintain a
sort of an open house on the court
all week-end, and  non-fratertgity
men are invited to feel free to be
tertain their dates at any house.
All festivities on the court will be
held very informally and we hope
that—everyone—will-come down to
mingle with the alumni.

The “Y” social room will be open
throughout the week-end also atid
there will be a«feed there Satur-
day afternoon for the boys and
their dates.

We are looking forward to an-
other great Homecoming and feel

sure that everyone will help us
make the dances a big success.
Thanks,

PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL.
Compulsory Chapel
Dear Andy:

Last year severaf® open
were held in Phi Hall, with various
points discussion.
One of these subjects was compul-
sory chapel and church attendance.
At this particular meeting a good
many students offered various opin-
ions concerning the matter, and it
seemed that everyone would like
to see the present system changed.
But nothing was done, mainly be-
cause no one had any definite plan

forums

as of

but
no

nothing comes of it because
one will head the thing and
solidify the idea into action. Even
a rejection of any plan that might
be presented would be better than
doing nothing at all about it.

Maybe [ stand alone in this ex-
pressed opinion, and if this is true,
I would like to know about it. But
if appearances are not deceiving,
then I am backed up (spiritually
at least) by about six hundred
other students.

There is supposed to be a Stu-
dent-Faculty Relations Committee
to take up things such as this, or
maybe it doesn’t care to handle
such a touchy subject. Maybe this
has never been called to their at-
tention. Also, this would seem to
fall within the limits of activity
of ODK, who also may not have
given the matter any thought. At
any rate, we think someone should
consider the question carefully,
with representation from both fac-
ulty and student body. The situa-
tion as it exists today is highly un-
satisfactory to the majority of the
student body, and
quite a while.

Because someone with power
over me might take this in the
wrong way, as has been done be-
fore in some cases, I remain,
Sincerely,

“SYSTEM CHANGER

has been for

Film Report Card

By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday, Oct. 24.

xe *

“Third Finger Left Hand’—Myr-
na Loy, Melvin Douglas, and Lee
Bowman.

This is the funniest show to be
shown on our screen in many a
day. Myrna marries Melvin Doug-
las under adverse conditions and
the entire marriage turned out very
badly. Her father wanted to have
the whole thing called off but they
soon break up. Jt is a very good
comedy and a~show that should
not be missed by those who want
to get married -but- are afraid of
father-in-law. —

Friday, Oct. 25.
*** A
“Too Many Girls"—Lucille Ball,
Richard Carlson and Anne Miller.
This is an interesting show that
displays many beautiful girls in a
series—of—dances—and good” vaude-
ville acts. Richard Carlson gets
along fine until he gets too many
girls on his list and has a hard’
time explaining ‘to all of them about
his love affairs. He is finally caught
and falls in love with beautiful Lu-

cille Ball.

Saturday, Oct. 26
++ * .

“The Quarterback”—Wayne Mor-
ris, Virginia Dale and Edgar Ken-
nedy.

Wayne Morris and Edgar Ken-
nedy play the part of twins in this
really good football show. This is
really a good fodtball picture where
good blocking and tackling is ex-
hibited. Wayne is the great hero
and does everything wrong while
his brother is a good boy and plays
fair with everyone. A love story is
centered around Lillian Cornell
and Virginia Dale. This is one of
the _hetter—football pictures and we

his magazine so we should expose

Tai Seite per Copy. “SL. the Collegiate year : ; 84.3% the past year went into hiberna- Parrish and Coach Whittle collab-
ternity men in their houses on week-ends Old Man Weather is blamed for CLEAR }tion recently by whipping overj}orated before the game Sat. to de-
REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY and at other times, but it is understandable | @ PRS a aah i haga Tomcat ay WEATHER for his yearly warmup, Also|cide the ages of two very pretty
+ 1c} i : . Paver sponsible is he ‘ | ld oull and Nox- jhigh ‘schgol babes previous. to our
National Advertising Service, Inc. | that these students have felt slightly out cidents? ineervevnee e Stud pt aioe odilehiinecenecn aed a Se
College Publishers Representative | 5 | acer : | jious sojourned over to Charlotte to] victory. The Tavern was the hot
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y. of place there, | The answer is given in the book- Lsee the latest “show.” Sproull |spot after the game where there
CHicaco + BosTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO ; : | let “Lest We Regret,” ninth an- I e ‘ s : 3 Pp s é ; é 5 au
; Opening the YMCA social room for the | nual safety booklet published by is noted at present for his large }was considerable running, passing,
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, : ‘ : | , |features and his big Jock with|and punting. George Mitchel holds
1 ee ee NCEE get SP MERE IBS: week-end and encouraging its use is a step | the Travelers Insurance Company [eeeeuee c rig lo Ayand 4 : ge n
: ‘ ‘ ; ld lanl ; fal lif | in the interests of safe driving. |Aliene’ Long even though she is|the record for cashing checks on
ANDY DALE TS EDITOR-IN-CHIEF forward toward developing the socia : enc Last year there were about seven hafratd -of- dim: the-week-end> His total-was eight
JACK COVINGTON BUSINESS MANAGER | of the non-ftraternity man, and as such is a | and eee ‘tmp as many ocinene Battling Beacon Bahnson let it |with Genstein Thomas closely. fol-
: ! in clear weather as there were | ‘ ‘ : ‘
ste Wi a better Davidson. Now that’ | ; i {be known that he will soon bellowing. George Richmond  (’4()
, STAFF ay ua al ee ; | during fog, rain, or snow. Out of* OOH NE dBW te Convenes ih eras aki S Pa aati
AMEE ES! there will be a detinite place where men who | a total of 29,300 fatal accidents in| roads are wet or slipperyand driv- {shooting down to Converse now that | was making afew passes. with
nat Beet asieire seiner do not belong to social fraternities can-en- | ernie beens send ing aes to be Saat et CN bad | te ed ue of a hand ee Bag areas phan ae ;
o auble : Ae x , ‘i ‘ weather, only 82! happene in fog} apparently slow own nh I on down dere ‘ ur 1enc ogg, evo, oyster an ucas
© Liles Associate Editor arty ’ ate seoaet » | ’ ’ 4 - + Perey ’
a ik Ryaaniaie FE ise tertain their dates during the ulternoons and only 3,280 in rain. The re-|crease their alertness. On wet |Hacky-Wacky (C. Hackney) had a|caught their usual detail up to
of atson ASS uC ° : ¢ i : is yi $ . ; 4
rn Hore lake ON ee ey) and before dances, it should follow that more | jnainder, 24,700 or nearly 85% ot} roads only 5,100 fatal Be Gao, ee Idate Sat. but could not work ler |Gibore. to Gatry “on the cultivation
Dick Cob Managing Editor | of these men will have girls up for the | the ie occurred in clear curred, Aton Gages 1,080, and Ji, until 3:28 on Sun, from which lof their locks. Della, Lucas’ date,
Harwell Darby ) Editor : ‘ x < 7 ; : | weather. | on snowy roads ; . le il 12 Hy he sath; he k noti ak he v “|
Bob Garvey £. Editor | dances, and that more will attend the | ~ pyoen more interesting is the’ The figures indicat® that clea: Be on ore 12 p.m. he ie sabes Sat a oe Ri take t : vhee
: A ve ‘ : ; : ave ys a gi ‘ 2.
WC. Blankett paitane|  dances, | analysis of actual road conditions weather and dry \oads encourage |Patior explaining, ut Putjand gave the boys a good scare
Al Winn Editor as | pre “g in accidents, which re- | speeding, and speed is known to be | Vereen was whipped off the chair . Norris Erb took part in a wed-
Bob Carter ; --Sports Editor The YMCA is to be commended for see- | yea s tiit705 ofall fatal accidents | the largest single factor inthe an- jand put under the wheel, with a|ding and reports back areal week-
i Miia ol UN ateeninieesenaecntom re Or eaiee, ing this need and meeting it, as is the Pan- | hapr peacd on dry roads. When | Ucn on our highways. chauffeur cap on up in Lynchburg. /end. Rey. McLean shot home last
ear ae : : Pea esl ae | He was very’ much flattered at hav-|week to attend his sister's affair
BUSINESS STAFF Hellenic Council for helping to put it across. | i : ; 5 ner ;
A B Manager Botl : ; i ] et e jing the opportunity «of driving |and the rumor has it. that he cut
& Ne q a\ssrsto siness Shana C 4 ¢ . = ‘Very < -. - - = . . .
Dist Rally Seereratirers Manager Ot organizations hupe that every possi | ette rs T f | ‘h Edit r around the town before alighting |lots of capers in OV Lum. “Enoch”
Ed Scott./20.002....-. Vepaye enol Circulation Manager | ble use will be made of the facilities, and at the all famous “Del” where he |Stevenson spent the few cuts he
Charlie Watt. --Cireulation Manager | that because of them all involved will be spent the night. om had by helping his brother ap-
John Crichton__-.---- -- :---------Collection Manager profited é Y Social Room or plans for going about the} Our noted song writer, Hite, has|proach the altar and take the final
Baxter Freeze__...---.-...- ..Subseription Manager if : |
|}Dear Andy:. thing. as his date for the Homecoming |oath.
| We are writing to try to clear This year there has already been |Pet Dargon of Winthrop, now that Hugh Sprunt oes to his date
This paper is the official history of college life, Hatt ; sPetanditie at @me  discussi x the stu-/she promises to bring him a nice /at the game who€tlushéd him for <
- a aoe up a slight misunderstanding’ about |Some discussion among le oS she promises to bring him a nice /at the game whotlushéd him for a
and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. BRINGEL AIDS DRAMATICS our Davidson dances. These dances |dents along the same lines, and a | big turkey neck—he says that “he|Tar Heel, Garvey got cut
As such it welcomes any contributions or Geli The announcement that Mr. George S. |are for everyone—not merely the |few rumors have floated abdut the jain’t had none.” The Clemson. boys | when a Pika from Dook and friends
munications to it, provided-such= does not +contain Bringel of Charlotte has heen secured’ ag |Members—of the nine social fra- | campus to the effect that the chapel }are sending a delegation of farm-]|shot over with his favorite—Miss
derogatory reference to faculty or students, pro Bee ; ; : ‘ a ternities on the campus—but every |system might be changed. For sev-/ers up to keep him straight on}|Goforth ... Wayman locked with
fanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All an advisor and supervisor of dramatics fills Davidse mane eral years there has been the same jthe week-end. . .. Bud Ward and |one of last year’s coeds and she is
material must be in the editor's hands by Monday a long-needed. vacancy here at Davidson. In spite of the fact that non-fra-|attitude among the , students, but} Termite Mann seem to have made|expecting him to ask her to the
night of the week that it is to be printed, and the Hitherto, dramatics have played a minor jternity men have no representa- | nothing Jaas ever been done, to my|a startling find. They are dating |dances. Have you a date Jack or
iiauaties eA Nida FBUG AO TCEER DATE OF nU OL ADY: part in school life, and appeared destined to  |tion on the Pan-Hellenie Council, | knowledge, about it. immediately after supper these |2 dates? If you have an extra one
contribution or communication, ; : ‘ ‘ » dances are “mas we ; Possibly nothing can be done, but |nights in the Queen City. let Mac Otts know B in-
continue that way. But it seems that this [the dances are for them as well as ream 8 . ! e ne uf ; P ea go dton) LAs
tivit hould ‘ | 1 | 1 the nine social groups. We sincere- | we have tried. Like so many other} Bumbarger threatens to give |hardt claims to have a good chance
cae i ould nov be classed among, the ly hope that they are aware of |times, ideas and opinions are alike,|some unfavorable propaganda in|of having his “wife” from Dallas,
nors,

N. C., over for the dances.

Us)

Compassing

oe

Campuses

BY

TOM CAUBLE

Qn College Dances, (Agricultural
vs. Liberal Arts)

It is believed by many that the
modern dance

is at its zenith in
agricultural cdlleges father than
in the liberal arts institutions. This

school of thought is vigorously sup-
ported by those who point out
that the dance is Hellenistic-in-ori-
gin, having first been ‘performed
in the valleys and dales of ancient
areece by companies of white-robed
young ladies, and being further de-
veloped by the country folk in
various European feudal states.

Thus these scholars of the ancient
civilizations maintain that, since
the dance was certainly first per-
formed ‘in pastoral settings, it nat-
urally follows that the agricultural
college affords the best background
for the modern dance.

The young ladies of today seem
to have varying opinions on. the
subject, but it appears that the vast
majority agree with the scholars
and side adamantly with the Agra-
rians, They point out various rea-
sons in support of their choice.
First, they say that the Agrarian
Dance Association seems to spon-
sor faster dances—that is, the break-
ing is better. They do, however, ad-
mit one ‘drawback’ to this rapid
change of partners. It seems that
they must be holding a good many
facts pertaining to the farm on the
tips of their tongues as the con-
versation is naturally rapid and
thus very little time is afforded for
thought. A young lady who is not
informed as to the terrors of cot-
ton-rust and peach-worms is not in
sympathy with the movement and

furious pace characteristic of danc-
ing today. The explanation of this
seems to’ be that the A‘D.A.-ites
are in better physical shape from
lives spent in the open. Here again
the young ladies see eye to eye with
the scholars who define the word
dance as “a measured leaping, in
unison with m@sic.” It is evident
from this that the average college

man, with his swaying and soft-
stepping, has failed to interpret
the dance correctly,

Next it is pointed out that the

hotel ballroom “is at best a poor
setting for the dance and is not at
all the site that the ancient Greeks
would approve of. A place away
from the noise of the city (and much
buffeted by the elements) is to be
desired and, in fact, is necessary
for a really good dance. A con-
venient A\arn or large storehouse
with tastic decorations (and not
gaudy crepe paper) is the site gen-
erallychosen by the Agricultural-
ists.

Further, it seems to be a fact
that..conventional. formal attire is
not compatible to the dance when
one’ considers its development
throughout the ages. While it is
not practicable to adopt the folk
costumes of the medieval period,
a wider variation of color than the
A.B.’s conservative black and white
is desired. To all practical intents
and purposes then, the military
uniform is the modern counterpart
of the ancient folklore attire and
is a necessity where a really good
dance is to be given.

Thus it appears that the evidece
on the side of the Agrarians is over-

advise everyone to see it.

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 28-29
se ee

“Knute Rockne’—Pat O’Brien,
Gael Page and Ronald Reagan.

Only once in a lifetime does one
have the great honor to see such
a touching story. Every person at
school should see this picture. It
centers around the life ofa great
American individual, Knute Rockne.
In it is a story that should touch

is apt to be neglected by the pas-
toral lads for this reason.

Again the girls say that the: Ag-
gies are better able to stand the

whelming.—The—liberal

rs
ar—afts——marr

must cast aside his irrational mode
of dancing and retrace his steps
some two thousand years, there to
begin anew.

£

everyone and make them go forth

(Continued om Page Sir]

Seo hin

Subscribe To |
THE DAVIDSONIAN
: ONLY $1.50 YEAR

: Anywhere in U. S. |

' Send To: JACK COVINGTON, Davidson, N. C.
DAVIDSON, N.C,

