T

Page Two
° , . | thing ¢o be put on as the occasion demands.
The Mawvidsonian | and utterly discarced at other times. The
= | question becomes, “is this the real thing:
~ will it last, and arise--to its former im
portance, or will it die out again 4 The stu
donts must decide. and must aet. Inactian
will answer the question in the negative!

Founded By the Class of, [915

Member

Associated Collesiale Press

Distributor of

Collesiale Disest”

“DOC” WHITE |

4

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” jcc as Chambers Huilding. and less eccog

nized than the psyehology books in the
“library. that's our conception of Doe White.

Not many students ontside of the athIctes
and sports inanagers have ever met_ this
man, we'll wager. but all those who have
heen privileged to know him personaliy
agree that it is remarkable how one human
being can do so much with so little ettort.
fle is an aecepted fact of the college ath
Ictie picture. inst as the new gym” and

LL Printed. By The?
STANDARD. PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte. North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

AUPREDENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTIGING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.

College Publishers Representative’
420 MAoOISON AvE New Yorn, N.Y.

Ao Chicago » MOsTON + 105 AMGCLES - S4n FRancisco the Stadium,
oo Py ? e,
Birtered as sccond class matter 1 Vos, Ottice a1 Das td aon, TA fe of his many chities . Well he keeps
North Carolina, under the ao + March ted ast the gymnasium cleaned out, has charge of
ANDY DALE EDITORIN-CHIEF ine Stock room there, heats the water for

JACK COVINGTON BUSINESS MANAGER

the showers. six alternoons a seck, runs

~ Paul Bumbarger
focmemtee uA) 0s meal ri x1 deemed

cn

the baking room, gives cul: downs, travels
\ kstitor to all the games each week io look aiter
NSESEOTEL a iv oo
‘peer prer—ech is-boys.-keeps the foothail field and base-~

eet

-EDITORIAL STAFF

Joi Lakes Serocinve Fave" hall Geld in shane the year round, lines off
Ed Watso Asspeiage bei
Iason, Withers Assent, Fdnor the Cield for games, and does the hundred
DideCal—— | Manu dine-I+tt0e——and “One ‘odd jobs that bob up every day. _
Harwell Dart MMACUTE tor . .
Nat. Garvey Manan Eaitor And vet he has never refused the request oi

Were Uhenteett smaing Ever a single person who has asked him a favor
AL W Managing bkebstor ! : _
Rol Canter? ‘Nparts. kdhator We take off our hats to Doe as a living
David Vosburgh Mosuc Eutor_.

example of a workman that needeth tot 2
he ashamed "He asks tor nothing gives all.
aud nobody has even seen him out of sorts.

1

BUSINESS STAFF -

Tom Ploak |, Novistant Husiness Manayair
Dich Kelly a, Sut Wusincoe, Saas Ite dassna gay muelii iv the irst plaee he
. Ed Scott Creulaty an, Manager
Charhe Watt 4 Cugderon Manag doesnt have time, and in the second place
John Chachi Collection Madager | he ig aman who imakes friends without
Raxter Freeze Suliscriptiog

oor revert reir. nud-tteabottt tine -——

Splash oe red point. conerete sidewalks.

— genuine interest behiad it, and unless every

——1~ yet too carly to~say~ with certainty —/—3-ee—or -popr-have any -friends

“Manager |

speaking In the words of one of the tbase-
ball managers, “he does more than his
share-" \

OUR RISING SPIRIT_

Prettg dite -prmtawreck Daviciena’s spits
took on new vitality, and apparently is —
about to. rise tb its former heights. Thurs. |

_day night’s informal Pep Meeting in the
ticid north of Chambers. did a great deal to
raise ‘this spirit, and riday aight the bal-
cony of the gym was almost hali foil, wich

—PW.Le

With The Staff

By ALBERT WYNN

As invalual’e a part of Dayidson Col. _

“1h “higitways"the fémale of the

—,|-is—_desired— Last

]
DAVIDSONIAN

Bubby Crabby When You _ |
Drive? Show Him This

las
on A\
» be!

HE

Thurs, Oct. 17, 1940

DAY’S
DIARY

BY

'e Are women worse drivers than
‘ men? That question was born
with the automobile, and for lack
of conclusive dala, no answer
other than that of opjnion has | ;
ever been given,

Accofding to the figures in “Lest
We Regret,” the ninth annual high
way safety’ booklet published by
the Travelers Insurance Company, |
there were 36,950 automobile driv-
ers involved in fatal accidents in
1938. Of that number, 34.700 or
93.95 weve men and only 2.250 or
6.1% women.

This seems ‘to indicate that on

{
1
t

+9

i

male and female drivers; nor doe*

“anyone know “how Many mote Ty
miles are driven uy men than by
women. “iin tt such data no de-

species is not more deadly than
the male. There are, however, no

The Question of the weck
this lot uf hanky panky is:
ness-gracious, have all.
anad ? Yo! The wildness
with the Flying Dutchman Rein-
hardt as he whipped off on Wed.
without, telling he was going — the
he didn’t: know where he
was off to until he got to: Greens -
where ,he mera. mecbanit
from Va. who talked him inte join-
ing the tlying corps: he shot a
avire back that'he was departing.
to, lanaley bield,
thit. He was a tath-columnist

Good.
we

reason,

horo-

ed in early Fr. morn.
of Va,.got hot when Teep Johnson

Alston Thompson, the

Junior casanova, cut_him_off

finite conclusions can be drawn.

Ta ters T ro-The Editor

ALMA MATER, COMMENT

7

data on the Telative number -of

land a protessional arranger’ would

“Tte allow them 16 do this jéb well, f

dance detail to Converse. Miss
Coleman is locked ‘with three Sig-
mas; has the pin OF one. the Aart
at “Teep” and a date with ee vhird
for her dances.

the Kid, came up in such a hurry
that she forgot her nighties and

. [late iast spring. 1
° It is my tunderstanding that the |;
president of the student body was |
approached ai the beginning of i
school this year hy the musie de-,
[partment on the subjecrat having:
thoth aungs plaved and ‘sung by the
Ban and Glee” Ciib__betore the |

erent. nature and style. from
Davidson,” which can be used dn:
ogeasion when a more stately some ;
such!

wear Iwo

NW hymii-style’ _ Atma Maters were!
mer question by the Music De-
parynent One of then, whieh the
‘deparunent Was had since the Cen- iire school for its approval of
temmal\eelehration was written by) cithcr of its disapproval of both. ;
an cclummnus ve Davidson who Is a: 1 -afso think that bath songs should ;

sescendant, 6 Maxwell Chambers be sune by the entire sudent body |

ivcar Andy . jcharge a minimum of .5100 ior the} had to sleep with her shoes on.
Goneerning last week's * “Question! 8Ork- (This statement is made only! Another, af .the flock, Leeta, was
of the Week." and vour editorial after a thorough investigation of dancing .on her knees so had to be
t wt * ‘ 9: Now , ;
Lahout a new Alma Mater for Day-/the matter was made)» Now, how-lasked to get oft the floor and
“don - — obit pe EEA CUID bomefiee both —Randeenaneeorene-eltt; = she Feally iy a
+ ™ \ .
{+l heartily aw that w should and Glee Club are available, al-} hort fellow. Matt Long miss@d the
warily Agree at @ .
‘have : . ‘Alms Mater of a cil though they were not secured until} bus when he carried another to the
ave a new a Atate

gume instead of her... The say-
ing that girls fall for brass was
proved to be false this San.
vou look © see that the bows from
of D.C. were> escorting the
Tlooking girls?
of the k
as well

best
No less than several

as stared because of their

| nusiousness. Colin Smith was pull-

Ink ose Many hia
IHouses th

counterfeiters

| Thi: sony ax _plaved-and— SUR + Detare—cither

“Tppersiassmen crowding the entire center
section and almost overilowing into the end |!
sections. someihing which has not happened

The iollowing letter was mailed without
dan addres. ana alter vaialy attempting to
iind the author. ldcal postal “authorities

The unusval sig't of vanious signs done turned i1 over ic The Davidsonian, along
in red paint and scattered abott the campus. ~ ‘with the cigarette butts, iink spots, and -
may tot bea pleasat one to the lower of — Ucidng packages usually donated the staf

IS

acce plied
many times tint year and somesot | nasical organizations are only too:
us remember tt\woll— All Wail, O,

| Ayvilling. to present these Songs -
Davidson." Another sone. WHICH and when they are asked to dq >or
thy Fred W aring and presented tol might say tha Tor seven years.

the achoaleby hint was not play ce proper otfictals bave, been

or osung ior this reasony When the sig impress mpon the student
publication was teleased\it was “int phe need for an Ali
tthe form ofaptano sheet musie and, irom “O

trying
Wody ,
a Mater whieh!

emt Lers Davidson” ° in

These

it.

ot
has passed on down to Limestone

Commander Vercen

Ahere heis setting the fashion Ser,
“3 with his Gght pants and tails. |
“tle wants to be lsquire but
wants a Péace Pact which. would
besrobbing-the DIARY o1-one of

the campuses BMOC’s Ele claims

: aa . “hic gpubBeity of ae ans
natural beanty.-bue it is very heartening to i hy their iciends.We print it without iunther | needed Tobe aTFaTgEd esiweially | tyic, and | believe! as you do, char’ AMPReIty of lasteweek unraw

those men who arc really interested in re-
viving Che Schools traditional spirit

“e catument
Dear Mother :
The “\? [{andbook says that freshmen
ought. to write their parents once a weck.
wo | guess | onght to write you and Pop
a deter, Pin Sorry Lihaven‘t written sinee
I've heen here. bat I've been very busy.
When I tirst got here they sent ine down

trasit cama; ane] cardboard posters ts cer
tainly not in ttselt asgood thing, but the i
iact tinct it evidences revived interest inour |
team Cxcuses the bad points.

lo a casnval.-observer at wwtid scem that

|
the Soin. hawagain arisen, and that ail is | to:an ottice where they took all my money _|
“now well and geod.t yt, that can hatdly { and my extra shirt. Then they put me in a

+ —big room with a.whole lot of other guys and
1 startedrealling out names, They gave me all
a number of upperclassmen participating? | kinds of papers to fill out with. funny
in the © Pep ALoocings, there was also a \irge {y Squares and ecireles and all, 14 didn't look
group whe evidently found it inconvenient | ltke any beer:signs I'd ever seen so L leit
Aithe maximim, not over half it blank.

Davidson’s upperclassmen were at the rally While | was wondering what they meant
Lon either nighi, although nearly every
.treshman was there.

°Where the remaining ha:i of the three
upper classes -were remains a mystery. |
Ceriainly there were not that many men oft |
the campus on Thursday night, and in ai
probability not on Friday night cither.
Possibly many were studying. which is
probaity an exeelient thing to do, but it Is
a pity that so many men took inst that par>_
ticnlar lime -to ‘put im their. weekly one
_hoar’s toil. In our opinion. the best guess
is that a lot of men were reclining in their | mean. Lverybody hollers at us ireshmen
rooms, looking out the window occasion- no matier what we do.

‘be said, it ail things are to be considered
fairly: in the first place, while there were-

4

tg —t}oa— hl

my room arid started shaking my hand till
it near ahout came off. They were real nice
to. me and kept talking Greek and all sorts
of queer suitt. They took me off somewhere
to eat and gave ine a cigar after dinner. T
got. real sicl, and when | came to;: they
| were all congratulating me on beeoming
! one of them, Iidon't know what they were
talking about. -

lL was trying to figure that oul whet they
all quit being nice and began treating me

i
t

by all that. a whole loc of guys rushed in —

sis steangedy reminisces’ Of the onciof the evenig.

for either the Vithd or uie\Glee the aime has come. jor action. So,

Club betare tt could be presented. may | suggest to the Student Conn
1G, knowledge, there asic jeil that the Rand and- or Glee
few persons at. Davidsoni who Club be asked to present these
are Rood 7 arrangers of muarsic. amd ;S6mgs 19 the studeay_bouy at once
(hose are on the tacalty The dpe rok immed ate consideration.

ties of these persons, Foam Sincerely,

Tormed. were too heavy at re too heavy ar We t time; TALMSN MATERS

—Song-OfEhe- “Sirens

By JULIEN M’CALL and LOUIS HITE.

my
VEerV

ine!

Announcement an lolinny iS

wf the - -| Long's aturday after .
Hellenic Couneidl that Freddy ven | sn broadcasts from the Roseland
would furnish musie tor the | Raflroum in New York have been
ITomecoming dances meets wrth the | popular-and cntertainina these past
approval ovthts commer. During the flew weeks Each Saturday Jonany |
past year Johnson _ has sivadily.| preselits av) differetit nat jonally-|
climbed the musical fadder. lis. known musieian who does his stuit |
musicsis now being heard over the| with the band ine:
| Muinal network. His sax section! formal the gresi

\o

SOnL

carries oF
with

and
ciscussions

diGard here last Mid Winters.

Genn Miller's recent- appearance?
Jimmy. Dorsey -has gust written} at Keith Theater in Boston alas. <
a@ new tune, “She's the Queen of | caused_a_riot. Phe bandleader o1-:
Vne Conga,” witch is a sequel tofiered: 10 hand out “autographed
“Six Lessons From Madame La Photos and abont one thousgnad ap!
Zonga. ‘| plied. “The cops fad to be called.
Woody Tierman’s_ band has) i, quiet the mob. Gieunis “Heat,
changed — its closing theme song Me Daddy. Fight vo a Bart with
again, The current tune is “Music “Ealing Leaves” om the

hs the Moon” and was written by
one of the boys in the band, Woody (ay-o7 Thic:
has recently completed a success-| This past summer several bands

ful engagement at the Tlotel New ovranized hall teainsand—-had—atot

side has also been creating a riot

ally, and “remarking that the rally waz 7__fvery Tmorming fos oI the gtivs go ower
_ making a lot of noise - Didnt they care te he tig building. bu. i haven’: figured
help show the teain that the student body | Out yet what they do: over there, There are
is-hehind them, win or lose? some tien over there who’ seem ‘to work
Fhe second thing which, we would like here. but what they do is none of my bus-

‘to point out is the fact that while spirit iness, I reckon.
may be running fairly high now, it is at- One thing that puzztes' me about this
most certain to drop again, unless there is | place is the mail. I get a letter almost every.
day from somebody named Dr. Sentelle. He
wants me to come to sce him at once. Do

|

man continues to back the Wildeats. Its 2

would want to see me?

Their are lots of letters 1 don't under-

? seand from people lixe the Court of Cony.
trol, the, Absence Committee, and the Ex-
ecutwe Roard. | don't know why every-*
body wants to see me. I guess I must be.
an outstanding freshman.

1 know that ,sounds. conccited, but it’s<
really not. You see, when | first came here
1 was so coneeited that_I_couldn’t hardly—
stand my own self. But now I’ve gotten
over all that, and I’m the most popular boy
in school. —

whether (there. has becn a revival, East
week's enthusiasm may ‘not retiira this
week. Tf. it does not, then we are right
bacit where we started. One big dutst 01
enthusiasm helps little. lt has to de con-
~ tinuous.

Week-end’ interest and enthusiasm is
fine too. But it isn’t the reat thing. The
real Davidson spirit is more tikan that, and
will_be_present during the week, and after
football season. is gone. But while foot-
ball is here, the spirit must show itself in
football interest and pep: And this must be
with us at times other than on weék-ends.
Otherwise it is merely a “wrap;” some-

Lots of love,
—ICHABOD.

<2 <—itm Report Car

§) hel i
orker. Dillagene is the lovely voe- | offun playing each other. in the

aliss who. shares tn his rapidly ris-| casi Johnny Messner's bovs- were |

‘ng tortunes, !repated to be pretty goed on the
4 Carroll Carroll, the lad.mepon (diamond. .

‘sible for the words using during | This corner had a iine time at

the hour “Kraft Musto Uaii” is CO lihe dance tast Saturday night af:

the has - turned SONg-wTiter | he ¥. .

and has written, “You ter ane -M. 1.-Davidson _ fame.
We wish ere could be ont aiter

nit,

Are the
One." with John Scott Trotter do-
mer the MUSIC: “every ramer Tv

saple fi that it is causing his un. j
Ti kingyo tT boints in the
south ‘with southern — belies. :

several

This is a rejection of your propo-:

“sal for peace PUT, PUT!

the

One of the covey of cuties, Frisco,

tory

gone.
began:

BILL LEMMON

Apie Means, the Mad Monk to
most of the boys, has thrilled aJJ
of the qirls up at Salem but did not
thrill -Miss Jane Harris much
when he-yust stood on the side walk
and said "Christmas gifts.” to ter
the Sig pin. Fic
made no cifort to plumb her as is
the customon such occasions. He

so

and handed over

Rut Lacy MeLean to work with the

They had heard Ox Alfcott

2) yMorris had two slick nos,
they youldn's sign him. Bone roll- Queen City

The trail to urangce

eTinmited up to “make ° Some: connec" C
[tions “after

{

4

‘

1

adets 401 themselves listed ; worrying the Pi

J Wiren

Uf bucks ont of the frnen and especiall
at one ‘thought he was al jock

-— Greenville:
Queens.

yet!

broom in their hotel room in Win-
ston, just cleaning up .

Cheerful Charlie the Cheerleader,
+_ind his cohort, Mac _
in

the -
Sat. but, couldn't ar-
a-common meetiag place. Ox
ix now out of the Woman an Haters’
Ciub. Butch Caldwell. is still a ‘char-;
ter member for he. still can't get a

} date_aitern three. years —of-—trying.-

Clontz appears to have caught the.
worst of the rigt. Fri. now that he
can “find only a few parts of his
car Jim Howell was seen
cashing a check at the dance while
Shelton and Frog Bell were argu-
ing whether she had no little
bind one tune Miss Harriet
was of Green fame.
Haysced Thomas (40) pulled the
light-cord the Delmonico
Dick Rankin hada ‘wonder fuldate. .
[irom Gastonia vo Levite Sink tried
to lock with her but she only asked
Ww ho the Hoxious man confronting
her, was. She is in the know.
| Bay Ru Neil masqueraded ay a

as
for

ot did | | man in the tub after the dance .

The freshmen were on Dale’s trail
and also his date “Sahara”
Bumbarger was on the ball and
Kappas_as_did_Hite
he checked out everything
ithey had. Mish was trying at every
y the corners to -
old flame — from

Dees.

with his

We have a request—Afmentene
_ (Teen) Dunlap asks thatuher name
cappear in print.She has on a K.Sig.
pin, is supposed to. he a Pi Kapp
girl and ,wps dating Phi Delt Mur-
phy Williams. You sho’ wot cut.
Murph!! . Harris McReynolds

‘is certainly trying his best to hitch.

1

He found a 4-yr-older Mri. at the
hinh School same and is heading: to
Petersburg in ques: “or a lock he
j bean ar the shin dig

Tim Saunders says that

Jungle
hus
(Continued on Page 6)

fame

The of the~-Cadet

Prowess

Against That of the Non-Uni- |! ii when she bas found thcir_agere-

formed Collegian...

Let us say that we are at a dance.
for what spot offers a better prin
wme-pround than the ballroom
Vhen. the young lady sights one of
the lads in cadet grey, she seen
to hear the siivcry peal of the
buule and across her mind flits the
pietura: of "The Charge of the
Light Brigade.” (which she learned
in. grammmaz school) She feels in

reverse javardly the surge of the troopers

as they tlash acrass the dattle-

torn landseape with drawn sabres.

The civilian under-graduate is
AHCh-andieapped-by the emotions
which these ¢_brassebuttoners cause
the ladies,
sight: behind the conquering cadet,
(and .immaculate he ts in black.
broadcloth), the best he can hope
lor is.a perfunctory smile or a com-
radely smile. Needless to say. ‘both.
of these greetings are much-dread--
ed by the average. college man.

Any advantage the non- military |

By DAVID VOSBURGH

THURSDAY & FRIDAY

to be right. All the hardships, ro-

> Oct. 18 & 19 Imances and thrills are presented in

a ee a a oe lan accurate picture of the old west.
“BRIGHAM. YOUNG" — Tyrone] — ‘SATURDAY, Oct. 20

Power, Linda Darnell, Dean Jag- aan

gar, Mary Astor and Jean Rogers.; 90. ”
One of the greatest pictures SOUTH OF PAGO PAGO” —

Twentieth Century Fox has ever| Victor MacLaughtin, Frances Far-

might have through long association

Or acquaintance’ with the Beauty

Variishes amMimadiadcely

to the
spectacle of @e men in grey.

The normal, distance at which
the young lady makes known her
military aspirations. to the cadet
is normally twenty paces, although
he attack is often begun at dis-
tances far in excess of jthis figure.
Usually she regales hith with a
glance having the potency of a 155

as. found on

"

4

Yor whea the heaves!in |.

at the mental [finda tri

Frolting of drums . incident

‘bitterly

Compassing
Campuses

BY

TOM CAUBLE

the. cadets’ sleeves, cand

gate dimded by the

number | ot
breaks to average at least threg
saripes, she may mentally award

herseli the Distinguished Servite
cass.
The poor under- ‘grad ‘is thus
driven i irom the floor by the mili-
tary and, muchly difgruntled,
to a comer’
counter-plot. —

The fraternity pin, traditional.
symbol of all that is coveted and
desired by the beauty, is a méce-
head among diamonds when the
be-medalled, Rotcer halts his cais-_
son. The cadet _who_can_ escape —

T?<-

pars to sinoke .and-

with all medallions (end buttons)

intact oa his tunie has obviously
not theen within_twenty paces of
a_ female.

The

stoop-shouidered civilian,
veticeting ‘on the sudden
deflation accorded his Greek gem.
[relires further inte melancholia
__[and. though apparently disintercat-—
ed, watches acuscly the female
warriors — cavorting with — their
catches. hes. Alas, his only advantage _
a-trile it ts). is that his
sinooth shirt front is often a relied
to the young tady after a fox-trot
with a cadet, all of whose tunics
are spattered with. egg- sized gold
buttons. Female chins are often
seriously bruised by contact with
these ornaments.

.The cadets, tallowing the glor- «
ious service traditions for gallantry,
feed the female vanities with com-

made-—It-reveals—the -story—behind
the Mormon ‘trek westward wherg
20,000 people sought a land where a
man, wives and children could find
the freedom they were willing to
die. for. A teue and real picture.
of a fight for what many thought

mer,_Ola-mpe-Bradna,-and-Jon—Hatt:
One of Kipling’s best novels.

‘scene is laid in the South Séas,

recled off in a beautiful setting.
The island is one of beauty and

(Continued on Page 6) —~

a

he.

where. adventure and romance are}.

min, howitzer, Often three or four pliments_far_beyond- the scope of.
cadets are. winged with this same,,the average collegian, | who has come
focular—salute and~semetimes the/to Converse more and more _
young lady can retain almost a pla-| monosyllables and vague grunts.
‘toon if she is well-versed in ball-| Thus the military remains ip unl-
room coquetry. disputed possession of the field
The ladies seem also to be at-{and the neglected under- -grad bides
tracted by the gaudy yellow stripes {his time until Homecoming.

in
