‘2

“ALENDA LUX UBI

ORTA

LIBERTAS

Volume XXVIII.

X -528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY,

NOVEMBER 238, 1940 Number 9.

Davidson Debaters Brengle Uses

Will Stage Tryouts

For Speech Tourney

4
Speakers Will Compete for
Entries in Dixie Foren-
sic Tournament

MANY EVENTS OFFERED
Winners Monday Will Speak
At Winthrop Meet

Not having participated ‘since
-1937, ‘Davidson’ College ail
“again be repfésentéd “in “the

Dixie Forensic Tournament
December 5-7, at Winthrop
Collage.

Tryouts wilt be held next: Mon-
day evening in the Social Center
to choose the college's entrants
for the nine events. The judges for
these tryouts, according to Bill Loi-
tit, president of the Forensic Coun-
cil, will be Professors Johnston,
Beaty, Cumming and
These__professors form the
ulty Committee on Debates
Oratoricat Contests. .

Events Listed

The events include debating, di-
tect-clash ‘debating, pfoblem  solv-
ing. oratory,  exieniporaneous

~ speaking, impromptu speaking, ra
dio announcing, situation oratory
and after-dinner addresses. Any
student interested Jin) the tourna-
ment should contact Bill Loftin.

Debate Question

Loftin stated that “this contest
would have no bearing on the se-

lection. of_the varsity debating team
next spring, except as a matter of
experience.” However, he, added
that

Fac:
and

“the same debate question will
be used for both tryouts,” the ques-

tion being "Resolved, that the na-
tions of the Western Hemisphere
‘should form a perinanent union.”

The Dixie Forensic Tournathent
is one of the most outstanding in-
tercollegiate tournaments of ! its

—kind, Last year 32 colleges and_uni-
versities participated.

Plan Outlined

Williamsan. |.

Masquer: Play
To Illustrate

“Margin for Error” Serves as
Model for Talks

Dance Tickets

Sale of tickets for the Mid-
Winter Dances will be handled
again this year on the install-
ment plan. Two dollars in No-
vember, two in December, and_
two in January, paid to a Pan-
Hellenic representative will re-
serve a ticket for the dances.

The balance, if there should

be any, issto be paid in Febru-
Further
cerning this plan may be gotten
from any member of: the Pan-
Hellenic Council.

ary. information con-

First Concert

McRae, noted concert baritone, on
the night of December 3 in Cham-

TO Mr. Brengel wil use the c

In. New Series
Stars McRae

Mr.
director of. dramatics,
Reries Of lectures list: Monday eves
lning in Chambers auditorium. He
interrupted the series for a period
foi, two weeks in order to organize
the cast and to begin practice_for
“Margin for [e-

Brengel, Davidson's
continued bis

George

the coming play,
ror.”
ast of
the play for demonstration pur-
poses in his lectures, which will be
“held trom 7 =30° TS 83 730 ever overy Mone
iday evening. Two one: sand-a-half
hour lectures were given previous
Hite the beginning of play practice
The dramaae director will discuss
the following in his coming lec-
tures: “Dramatic ‘Tnterpretation,”
“Stage Oryzanization” and “The Ac-
tor.” The Red and Black Masquers
urge all students who signed up;
tor the lectures to continue attend-
ing. Any who did not sign up are
welcgme uw
A definite date has tot been set
for the production of “Margin for
Error,” but the dramatic Rroup is

Ed Watson, president of the Da-
vidson YMCA, has general super-
vision over all activities of the As-
sociation, which in this issucs an-

nounces the .annual Christmas Gift |

Fund. The gift fund is one of the
major projects of the ‘Y', of which
every student is a member.

Blazer Named!
This Week As

Christmas Gift Fund For 1940
Voted To Sponsor Missionary
For Service In War-Torn China

Seniors Hold: ree ae tee Be
CR December }
In D yecem ber

Supported

“Two Functions to Be Held.
This Year, One in Fall :
___ And One in_Spring —___- :

Deputations

Shaw Smith and John Mac-
Kinnon motored to Anderson, S.

c.,

sented a program for the young

!
; WILL SPEAK HERE SOON

last Sunday. where they pre-

. people. of _the—First ..Presbyterian
Church.
A crowd attended the |:
Program which was in the form
of a supper forum. Shaw Smith

World” Situation” Challenges,
Says Ed Watson

large

Aes

vor
Joinng wa concerted drive,

Ata recent meeting of the.sen_|]| gave a talk on “The Place of .
ior class, jt wax decided, that ig:| Young People in the World To- fiol Presbyterian youth
vaddition to the Senior Faculty Day || day.” —_ thronghout the South to send
observed eagh spring, this veat a While in Anderson, the David- |/(en_ missionaries to foreign —

son boys were entertained i in the
home of Rev.

tall SenioeFaculty Dae will de held:
m conjunction with tha annual fall
styoker,.

The mam reason tor the inangu |
ration 71 This new plan is That in
past have

fields this vear. Davidson's
YMCAvhas voted to give the
annual Christmas gift fund to
sponsoring 4 young misser-

James Appleby,
‘Y’ Secretary at David-
son and now pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church.

former

f

seniors repretted

years ary, eo,
the fact that they didn't become e : Harvard Man
rhetter aequainted with the medibers W r l le r Ss Hear, The °V" Cabinet has set” the ~

of the faculty eacher in the year

TT 140 poal at $1000, the amount re-
Vhursday,

LCE . S ‘ vo
December $ has been quired Co finance a new man. After

Four Articles

considering Monday—evening, De-
Famous Baritone Sings in cember 16, far a suitable time. |
> Chambers Auditorium» Jo Newell Robinson, president of
December 3rd “the -Masqters, “is. stage manager
for the play. The production was
TT at presented—at the Lite “phenter in
As the first.in a series of con- Charlotte, so Mr. Rrengel was Able

. Cris scheduled throughout = the to stture their settings t%
year. Phi Mu Alpha, honorary MU" | Davidson’s production. These set-
sic fraternity, is presenting John tings have, already been brought

here from Charlotte.

bers Auditorium.

“Mr. McRae was born in Green-
ville, S. C.. and studied at the Jul-
liard School of Music in New York
City. He has appeared in concerts
throughout the country and has
sung with the Chatauqua Opera -as
well as having been guest soloist in
the Wooster Festival held annually
in’ Massachuseets. He has become
noted for his interpretadion. of spit-
ituals. ;

In addition to tus sonoert in Da= |

vidson, Mr. Mekae wail sing the
leading’ role in the Messiah in Co-

Five Stud ents|'
AttendMeeting
Of All Frats

Pan-Hellenic Council Men to
Visit New York

Representing Davidsonis Pan-
Hellenic Coane at the National In.
lerfraternity Conference in New

.. chosen as Senior-Faculty Day. In consultation with the “Executive's
Sen 10r s~ V ote the afternoan there will be compe . Committee, of. Foreign Missions in
re ? tition between sentess and teculty Sigma Upsilon Program Is | Nashville, Tenn. n., they have selected
wee __[ members in golf, howbng, badern . . John Snell, outstanding graduate
Results “Not Obtainable as /10". pink pong and pool, These Praised Highly of Vanderbilt and Harvard aniver-™
Samples Were_Still-Shown - Sent events will be supervised | — sities, who is going to China to
At the Student Store wo Coach "Pete 7 White oi the | Yast Tnesday night, the mem | reich. in Hawgchow Christian Col-
Inewlty wn Holt Rarnwell of the | gery of Sigma Upsilon enioyed one | lege. Soetl, who will arrive in New
se ass
; ; Ss. . Vork this week from, Venezuela,
Members of abe senior class have On Thursday night, a smoker arid of the most interesting and stimu wliere he has been engaged .in a
voted upon the material for their) feed will she given im thevhaingtet leung meetings of the year. accocd Hovernment engineering — project.
blazers, but as this issue goes tal hall of Chambers. Ao program is|iag to menthers present. The gath- will visit. the campus in the near
parents themrestlt—cicthis -halloting pbeing_planned-byrepresentativeso( ering was held in the SA:E-house--irorecto address: and -hecomeac-
is nat known. The voting took | the faculty and senior class. Dr at 9 o'dloek. : quainted with the student body.
plice at the Student Store where | Logan and Dr.- McGavock are ta ‘The VMCA sponsors a drive cach
he . 1 Sm dj harge of spuniua. : AS @ regular part of the prorram,, poy NS ,
the varions samples were div dis-| charge of the entertainment by the Christmas for a gift fund. to help
play. iaculty, while lo Newell Robinson | Ed Watson read: the third chapter) oe Worthy -eause, According to
Thehiazefs will-henthree-button, Will Supervise the seniors iv the of the novel, Talley of Ronulia- Ed Watson, president, world condi
single breasted coats, withta vent] Prostam. Kd Maxwell has dees eion,” Thig chapter ended by t6av- | tons Have played an important part
on the, back The. color, which has [Publ in charge of making arrange ima all’ three main characters in aj in this year's selection of a project.
not vet heh Thdsen. will be either [uents for the smoker. : issionaries are ambassadors of
yet beeh Chosen will se eather | eo _— state of unconscionsness. The nes: Missionaries art ambassatlors ;
tan or hrow nh. The price is not. vet . * ' . theit own country as well as Chris-
known, as at” dapends emtirely on. Cercle Gi 1ves chapter ot thts. historical novel. Stianity, and the suecess with which
the matersil ahich is ‘used in the which has its cetcing in the time ot (hey do there work, is illustrated
blader, cre War Between: the Siates. wii pthy che recent expulsion of mission~

Wenting of the blazers has be-
com jw tradition among the seniors
ut Davidson College The distinctive

aves from all Japanese territory. -

To Shanghai

: oy ae
he written by hawsan Withers,
Trois up to lial to revive the char

French Drama

eel .
spelen} pee davidson | a
Cereleb renearethebiarvidsen will

F S o lumbiz, S..C.. at Christmas. and is| Vork City Friday and Saturday \ : Colles Kennch chal j . acters and get Ubem ont of an un, Davidsen's Missionary LO 10
or ervices the featured soloist for the Caro-| will be lector Macleant Gene Vee {Out ei the blaver rmmediately sin : “ I , ; i oy ae vee ‘ fortunate predicament . (Share, China. to teach a. Oang
. i . i ace renehepliav gated 7 t Angels : teaye ‘Wristia ‘oHeve tect der’
i -jlina Night: program of the Char-y;reen Kass. Mcklwee.. Seatt Cuener kes cut the senior fromthe rest oi i cutan i t 4 e ; Me ae ; EDs Rene Williamson cead ani chow Christian College located iu
‘te Coin? : . + ‘ ‘ fanverse Col poo ee oe . wes athece—
” Pfohl, Jones, And- Music To lotte Community Concert Associa-]and Winston Taylor. e [the student body and reff. the 7 re 5 [lei sn sy ‘erie at a 4 eat oun the art oad puaning Tle fthe international serdement there
t* . , , eke om Spa upp. - Wes .
Be High Lights tion . The National Interiraternity Con- | ot the shool thas the wearer is dae night " ; taaested that professors cur hee) LMS imsuamian 8 oe “ S went
. : or ‘ a se nar, ent . elimportans cotlegem an the rient.
Progritnis-for the ext three ves—j;—Other_artists_anad musical organ- | ference..convenes every year about : ; i Phe east an ifie play, dong wathi Tren studerts awake by “pun“erns | per “s ; * -
cr services. were announced by | izations scheduled by Phi Mu Al} this time with representatives ror nrerest has Been shows . . Lanng ther leetres, and said thatyenieying myunituty irom Japanese
pe . “ “ ere . : : aj oC Cock 1 Nerheceotivers he this vear oan the selection tor the] majority ol the club members| aD punning is the lowest form of | Oner yertihrnebits locate Le:
President Lingle early this week (Pha include’ Claire Coci,ontstand-| nearly a vi utthe Cnit- = made the teip on “Puesday aiter noe :
: . . 5 Jing organist Jannary 72 ihel|ed States. + phlavers and orwétieally all the mem ! ‘ . “1 AW GUTET TOON it then wee mist stoop ta con | Cale® of favorable exchanne rates
These will complete the services |e Oruanst, on Ya « : ; . Jo tbers athe Semisr lags have aureed] and owere entertained at capper bey | quer, ‘ te SEG0Q co xpeeted: tec ober arse
~ for 1940, j Michigan Lith: Symphony on Feb.i With events centerine about tin | ln “Users wilh i HC girls ete ipresent | Jipue tue es enosseress tl
. a 10 r . <7 i ahead tse _ oa rie et. Fh eaane a Stee i o
Bishop John Kenneth Ptotl-ist rary Ss-the Siberian Singere—ony Commadore Uotel. the coniercnee ~ anne uu ; Nee i” a mg the 7p arse Claes OTT ae tablish im ae the dutlege._tor
. . . fe _ Lisl Py eee a eee re. i a “ — Tachi, - sores TARP REESE . ¥ qer “ere. ft yo
- scheduled to: speak on wext Sune March” i: Dorathy Retehel and! provera includes  specches HOM ee le ww a “h The seurimg ot the plas ge on ge SHU presented one saat in ry more “than, Miter tes ihe
wo . . av be 7 oe douuays, ’ ~ ¢ lap . 4 ‘amore —Oe ~ . .
day. Bishop Piohi wa rdained} Edith Stemmetz. dao pianists, on Franklin. Do Raeevelt, Wendell bo, 1h . wen yer tne oungays breneh-hotel An English father ng hard to the condysedttion ot war Misston ‘ B ea wu qscinne. sup
ho ; s—ordain ‘ rankin ¢ ; ! i oe : ! sh tu asi we Soorae Missions Bes " 4 e.
as a minister of the Moravian| March 24, and Norman Cordon.) Witthic and 1 G.sBalfour, promi he prices of the mareriats, SOT one to Faunce to find his daugh | ~ Ln Pee ade BeSISEAHEE OF he por
Church in 4901 and in 1931 became; bass bamtone, on May 5. — nent fraternity jeweldrn and presi |! Sane ae AY Ae, TAM Te whe has fallen am fave witht a | CSTE Weert savage and sentir o
. . wt . io : . tram SI250 wu. S18 verre VOT J | : iy Ure ima U ante rs
a bishop of that chureh, Ue lives! As peeviansly announced. “cuir dent or the coaterence. « sunt inn i. . a 7 ‘ ed " Frenehman and las dun awas wath Nei nn ie Stema Upsilon ty Mat .
. . . . . . . a . Si Wes ere SHON Dee W . . u VAL s 7 : aves a "i
in Winston-Salem and is -the ta-| dents tickets for the entire. series The purpose Gf the conicrencyy curious Nah vine ‘ - Lhe Tin. At the hotel is an interpreter LS ns " euenns travesty ws Student's Art
ther of James Caristian Pfohl, of Lare $2.00, other persons’. $3:00-— ‘Ta-assemble collere dance commit DS EE Canepa yes aT UST dig camel spewka word oi Fath Mr The Tat Aiaak a of acr plan eye
Davidson. . Fittle § 1 f ive th m thie in Chatlatte “Phis amber ish. ‘The. fat] , “Al inot m let the suctets wathout sa leg (7
, , eCs Sur GES v wiv v aM Oppror shy, c lather, wihig anaal aK . .
_ Thipredlichigan attle Symphony | ‘ ae nl Qn pesssbulutes vs eco bv dacleel a a _ MOS andonn _
2 Rew Mp Jamas Acyones, pastoryand the Siberian Singers: Nate ape TL TH TTA OFC NES AS Tete wntikah . hal Pree aves HSL Ute The, ; .
of the Myers Park Preshyferian | peared at Davidson before. “bur te | Pictures on another page oiothe a 1 ™ The ‘ - " * HORE wrerpreter whe. at course, mixes: Mlbert Winn provided te betrust
Church of Charlotte, will speak one; " pe a suniples, bh tinal choice wie] - {Continued Pea ori ments for the meeting. - — A
yen ariatte, spe: Cyother Tour artists are making ter j paper are Unree or the reprrsente-lande fram thes t fo - Decem er
weck from dhis coming Sunday. Hetdebuts for this section of the state.‘ uves from ‘Dawidson: Hector Mae cin auttce WoO \ ‘
y " A 2 . . - . : . co, e640, ke Yoehanie ¢
xraduated from Davidson in- 1931) Mr. Cordon is the tirst Metrapoli- Lean. president af the cauneil: hia ee Pee RS - me Hu d, Hi Hort d Norther to Di
. . . afer os “Cdtroth 1 “Oy bine , nan .
“and has also graduated trom Union fian star to appear at Davidson Rosy McElwee ant Gene Vereen | ha meee Pate ol umic isst ne lot OX ona oven cross tO ns
. Theological Seminaty. Wer which, rly Retnluirdy Casey bane, . play Wovks.in..Remed:.,,

he studied abroad. He hag already:
given the dresigmen y talk -.diuring
their Orientation Services. i

The Christmas program wiil be ai
musical, as usual. Christmas .music.
will. be furnished by the orchestra:
and glee étub with the aid of wuest

musicians,
a

Watts | Speaks

“AL Convention

Dr. George 0}. Wits. of the Dae:
vidson College-ayaculty, gave a lec- |
ture on Whittier’s “The Vandois |
Teacher” at the thirteenth annual)
meeting of the South Atlantic Mod-

ithe

By BILL LYMAN

Since thematrival fom he tall.
mester in September,
dontS have watched with

Davidson ser
keen
tie vradual erecung

in-

; terest of the

wlibrars and —cenebuikdne err

rte daw neat the suuth end eT Chain-

bers Building. Though the twe
buildings -arcistill in their compara-
lively thementary stages, consider.

able progress has been noted from

gap PERM S Own YP Perverer en es even

he

Senr—Fanmimee _ Arsocianian,

AWOTYe

seen in prembér ot

-mecting was held’ at” the Chiver-
sity “of North Carolina in’ Chapely
Hill on November 29-30, 1940

Dr. Watts. professor of. Frefich.J

represented - the ~moder: lancudees.

department of the Davidson facalty
The meet was attended by repre-
sentatives of the facultics of many
Southern cciieges and universities,

numbering among them proiessors |
of the fiye modern languages, ing: |

_lish,_Erench, “Italian. German and,
Spanjsh.
High lights of the ‘two-day con-
“vention were ailuncheon and ban-
quet on Friday, and departmental

mectings both days.

, varied
‘basement

toe . .
The construction material

he two buddines . ace ong con
Vimetel ar the same time in order
save both time ‘And money. The
new ibrary, next to the present
Maran Chemica? Laboratory,
first, Its foundation,
structure «were. recently

ie

Was
and

i completed. and ibe construction ma-

terial used for them were taken
over the Seienee Building
to be uscd for the same purposes.
tor the
first floor and first-floor pillars
were removed yesterday, since .the
concrete that had Been poured in
their. frameworks has hardened sui-

to nite

B uildings Being B wilt,
In Economical. Method

Shi. Heese for Bates

oo

Conquers Chilly Chills

eled Art Ceriter__

Speal ke er May When the averaue wil hese <q ; Ne fony wait dd eponing
a slung at ine sinew lew ness | pre ose in “ me Dit — Das itso Sade Art Callers 3S
Be. _ Tr | itchett his. tonsilsin 4g yaw cruteliiong ye vetl, Leedp a “me a vhs Mendig December 2 aul
° reaches Troe and Trns mm Ve rae devia” building Oty fhe Cattbepetas uae thread Tees art Wels _
= oe SEES ans ; so : ane . , alist day. the third send) fourtin ates ass
: : Captain Norton ty par herr, diater, and rates hegeptls Laek sto with Che execptien en the sotre ts cimctracerh pba. hy Gee Wor
encienuby. As soc aw thes Relence i ohm bie Here atthe te in| shee ps chee scldamapasises fling bel heated: wath steamt a TT a wee
) Finiding foundiion and basement Sores ot Viren, bas been mvt of the Vinterestinge story Jpck clits comral phat Peas tenn hee at Theos een hettem oa ine
_pstractinre are ready. these tinst-door ed ta speakoaroa. bo Cit ban fthe sudden gust lon steam thar acter beer rete the plentom ineh mre, _ cure a : “ cr Bar
joohstrnetion materiads wall be uscd Paaer whieh will be ded \WWeduescdiey |e home a tine warts bis ie, poor Sree Vins gots [ged tu th —_ an T ule -
‘ Te er to oy het mebt. December 1 Ther man who makes i aineces ides inal Maddie. ac ded “Ty = v ue wren =
twee bindings wall be done on this Capt Pritchett vias. until five pany lor reste arm nicer. ora ude | wath valves, to Se: down Ue ue ™ _ ued re Hisplay u
safullaneous pilin. wher in when wfyears age, tue threctur of physical [ec picks to bed with them js AN] yiressure ~ ~ { wank * lets wall bec ieses
cerlun part of the librure has been education afd head track coach at} employee al whe Tllege whe nie} An interesting Sutras BY USC sree de Shon anid a trang feet
completed, pe sane sane” cansirnetion | Davidsean. ble is a’ graduate of the} the crack-oi days sill an insignis: | with die binddinge or the: frePecmity vont n College. —
niatcrials.y will be used ior, thaviden | University. of ‘Jennessce, and wasyleant pope plods dis frost bitten wav | conrt, Vhe Hated cendenisanin D4 Phe Werks presented in this co: ve
er ee ee een er ST a aa iinineiae hain fea uit Spt bth a :
The cdinee’s will be exactly dike: inf wa Chere pened bat Cav tai an the back caumpits. 2 aoe Pty chek te perce petit Pee ps Nuss padtibits: and) ies
basic stegeture and c\terior, though | Pritchett will accept the inyitation,| Inte the hungry maw of this bis] bin whe Traternity cone] i dowe: wl tom and Joba Nor 7
ther “interior sqtup will, natacalte Mrésitlemt Hoe said mgt mouster, this Tite prasédeheng fj thar die, beeen plant. soa «lal me Veit rk aychott Horton and 7
ine quite ditferent. ‘The second floor “tesa {f# Une meeting of the * spy factor of snoring shanberers pours | punip ha tu be installed ta return # theres. sel, be tramed and
of the librars is mow being com-] Club on Monday night was taken} day's portion of Me 1863 tons] the. cand aaa TT the boilers, Teherl te the ten’ chesen trom: jtie
pleted. as ois the basement of the-fup with a discussion of and the fet cou consumed werman aver pun, is responsi tor the. ts! estibits nal kept on dispéas
science Tiailding Phe material rorfinaking og plans for the banaquet.; winter. During fhe day approx; molding and groans” that disturba 7) CMurenuy .
the trameworks is cuncrele.—r¢- and iw hoped that v_ will prove mately seven anda Tali fons_orfthe slnters or clic Kappa Snappa Phe exhibit wii be open Mon -
-inforeedL with stecT one oF the tiast sucecssiul events coal will be burned. or cnough coal { boys. : daw. Tuesday and Wedndsdiiy_iccr
Phe new buildings. along with}over giver by the °D" Cli. iW Preach what far and back at, 7] be plans Wits erected) aft ant wii? e¢lock in the imerning until ae
Céheord Koad and the south wing TRO attendance of the members | stretched out lump by tump.-C Phat | nal cost ot $50,000, ‘This nioney was the eve even and the public, seo
of “Chambers, will form oa quad-|of the “D" Club at che meeting} far” is about the distange ‘from |iaken tron a bequestinads By Rob. | alls invited to atiend. yo
ranule. Various walkwiys and] was brought ‘up. W is hoped that} here to there. “Phe Davidaeman ‘fert WK. Smith, president orb. Loni: | lig che exhibic thar wil be held
shrubbery will be placed there and] the prospects of a- new—mecting | docs not specialize in- math majors.) Llard Snutt Company. in 1922. Thelin. the spring there Will be choot
so will present a striking appear- roum will encourage more mem- At any rate, the college spends | ercction ‘of othe two Hew buildings | works chosen to be added_to the
ance. The edifices will be finished | bers to take an active part in the} and average ‘of $7,50000 a winter] will necessitate, the installation ot | permanente display... About. 22. stu-
and ready -for use by ee fell se-("D" Chih Activities, and that more]|on fuel alone. This ts the cost. at} anoeter boiler in addition, to the,f dents are expected to display works,

mester of next’ year.

members will attend the meetings. approximately $5.50 per ton. Of this

three now in use.

at this time,

Lr!
