Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Staff |

Wi
th
. c
By ALBERT WINN

[t has been said that a tradition lurks
behind every tree on the Davidson campus,
and that a heritage is liable to spring up
from beneath your feet and poke an accus-
ing finger at you in the most unexpected
times and places. Ne chat as it may, there
is certainly a liberal dase of tradition and
_legend connected with The Davidsonian’s

— The Dabidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1

1938 Member > 1939
yr Psociated Collesiale Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest |
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY____..|.

Charlotte, North Carolina ‘ é ;
' First of all there are the evident tradi-

tions that confront the most casual passer-
by if he will only keep his cyes open when
he pushes the rickety door and enters amid
the clatter of typewriters and the irate yells
ot junior editors.

There are the spots on the walls where
editors tossed ink-bottles in moments of
desperation. There are pictures of former
statts, old papers written by aspiring jour-
nalists of years gone by, framed certificates
- won in banner years. of the past. And there_
are more subtle things: seribblings on the
“window sills, little carvings .on the desks,
| doodtes on old seraps of cardboard “~~ all

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cente per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
—————===

REPREBENTEO FOR NATIONAL AOVERTIOING GY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New Yor«. N.Y.
Cwicaco + Boston + Lot AnOgits * Sam FRANCISCO

id 5 - ~
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
Nocth Carolina, under the act or March Jed, 1879,°

ANDY DALE'._
JIM CURRIE |.

-. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF |
_BUSINESS MANAGER

a
-Assistant Editor
Ngsoctate—Editor
ssociate Editor”
--I7-TAssociate -Editor
Associate Editor

Gem ~ “EDITORIAL STAFF
Paul Bumbarger ..0 2.
Tom Cauble -
Joe Tiles -..------
Ed Watson 22.
Lawson Withers 2... ..

——- Niek- Cobb Managing Editor | indications of the fact that the reporters of
Harwell Darby ~. Managing Editor ne mo 7"
ott Garvey _--. “Managing Editor | the past were likewise confronted with
WoC Plunkett -.-..-. --- Managing Editor { heads ‘that wouldn't count and lead -para-
Al Winn ....2-- -+-----Managing Editor . : :

Hob Carter -----. “Sports Editor | graphs that wouldn't click,
David Vosburgh ---Movie Editor ut around old Elm Row there is a deep-

Angus Lytch o....... aeleseceeeeese---Stafi Photographer

er tradition yet. Years ago the rows were
used as dormitories. And the boys of by-
gone¢days played and slept and studied

BUSINESS STAFF

Asst. Business Manager
.-Advertising Manager
Advertising Manager

Iterbert Codington .2
-Casey—fones.
Hector Mclean .

Eldredge Brown -Cireulation Manager within these self-same walls. They built__
Jack COME oN Circulation Manager

Fred their uwn fires, drew the water for their
trigid. weekly baths from the college well.
And that spirit of independence, somewhat
diminished but still evident, is a foree on
the campus today.— —

The reader (if anyone has pursued these
uwo-o'clock wanderings thus tar) will per-
haps wonder that a staff backed by such a
Worthy past and so many inspiring tradi -_
tions can often produce a virtually news-
less, uninteresting paper. Much of this is,
perhaps, the fault of the staff,_But a news--
paper, and preeminently a college news-—
paper. must be a cooperative affair. lf it is
to be worthwhile, the reader must meet the
writer half way.

Little --Collection Manager

This paper is the official history of college life,
and is a medinm ot student and faculty opinion. As
such it welcomes any contributions or communica
tions to it, provided such does not contain derogitory
reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity,
or destructive criticism. All material must be in the
editor's hand by Monday night of the week that it
is to he printed, and the editor reserves the right to
reject part or all of any contribution or communication,

» PUBLIC SPEAKING

~~ One of Davidson's main needs at present
is a professor of public speaking. We have
dramatie organizations. a debating team.
and the iorensie council. but no person who

Mental, Not.

Mechanical

Defects Cause Accidents

Of all automobiles involved in
fatal accidents in 1938, only 1.9%
were found to have. defective
brakes; in fact, only 7.6% were
found to have any mechanical de-
fects at all. These astounding
figures are found in an analysis of
the automobile accident experi-
ence of 1938 just issued by the
Travelers Insurance Company.

Many drivers, if they will be
honest, can usually trace the
cause of an accident to some fail-
ure of their own. mental or tem-
péramental equipment rather than:
in their mechanical equipment,
the analysis states, They will in-
sist--that -the- steering wheel
locked, or that the gas pedal stuck,
or that the brakes failed; but
figures indicate that more than
90% of all ‘vehicles involved in
fatal and non-fatal smashups are
in. apparently good mechanical |
condition with none of the numer-
ous defects that drivers claim.

headlights out,

YOU MEAN
WAS IN APPARENTLY
GOOD CONDITION /

92 4%.
IND APPARENTLY
GOOD CONDITION

76%
VARIOUS OEFECTS

1938, only 2,820 were found to
have any mechanical defects at
all. Out of more thai a milion
involved in non-fatal smashups.
only about 58,000 were found to
have defects:

Defective conditions that were
found, in the: order of their im-
portance, were: defective brakes,
puncture or blowout, one or both
faulty steering

Of a total of 37,250 motor vehi- | mechanism, tail-light out or ob-
es involved in fatal accidents in! scured, and glaring headlights, __

etters To The Editor

IN DEFENSE
Dear_Andy.:

| that there “were more boys p

Thurs., May 2, 1940

GLEANINGS

By MELVIN MEANS

Guest Columnist—P. P. Relth

Here's a hand to the Pan-Hellenic
Council of ‘40. for the wonderful
dances, the fine bands, and beau-

tiful girls who came to be in on the |

good times we have had this “year.
Hope Glutt and his boys have a
year as successful as those who
preceded them.

Saturday afternoon the happiest
man in town was down at the
track meet with a shining new
cigar, beginning his five ‘month va-
cation after spending two ‘wecks
on the drive at his keyboard trying
to get dates for us. We all know
“Bad News” Gaffney as the man
who resides in the Flush House and
emerges several days before dance
time with the standard whipped-off-
the-pot-form. Hat’s off to this man
who is a definite part of any dance
sect promoted! —

Nobody would think that inno-
cent Sexy Rose would do any little,
poor, defenséless girl ag “he dit
He shot Hussle Holland's date,
Kelly_Ann, the girl who neyer heard
of Jamaica, and who stayed lockéd
in a closet all during the banquet
Friday night, the most convincing
line I've_ever_heard. Why don't
syou write a book on it. Woadall,
and sell it to the Cuties at Con-
verse for new material? And speak-
ing of this type. who would think
that Tom Friar is to be among-the-
tirst married men from the class -of
‘40? They say he gave here a beau-
tiful diamond this week-end. When
reéoiistriicting the week-end we find
another silversmith or should we
give him the title of Jeweler, for

ar-| Pussy McLean presented the girls
ticipating in the ittramural pro-|at the Alumnae Luncheon bracelets.

-‘t- seems that we, are never sat:
isfied! There appeared in “Sports
Slants”, of jast week's Davidsonian
a complaint concerning our ingra-

the Sports Editor, and would like
to speaks in defense of the Tntra-
mural Departinent.

This year, through

the efforts

“p

tramural athletic equipment

because he started playing Thurs-
day. However his tompetition was
strong as the Lover Wallace with
his Duke sensation was in the run-
ning until Cop got in. his forked
8 and patrolled the territory. 2. .
George Matthews really was’ sur-
prised to receive a buck flush note
—collect. But Lead Tenney seems
to take the cake, for upon phoning
Laura, his much cultivated lock, he
tried to argue her out of the mar-
riage oath she took Thursday night.
Jo Robinson didn’t .go bad either.
He ambled into the P. QO, Friday
before snagging _his date on the
bus, and drew a post, card with
the usual regrets thereon... Jo,
you are not alone: Hercules War-
lick can't figure the women out
either, especially when Mobley re-
moved the very pot from under him.
«-.-. Crichton No.1, is the man in
school who dated. a girl with 9
petticoats on Friday and 12 on Sat-
urday. “Fhe Bird Dog was last seen—
in the cat headed north on route
21 Sunday morning. Any news lead-
ring to his whereabouts will,he ap—
preciated by Crichton No 2...
Whiskey Bol was having a most
pugnacious time of it judging from ‘
the frequent rounds designated by. .
his horns. Biggy Richmond should
%, . MJ
be congratulated fot-having his
first nice date of the season up...
Pollock's date was the biggest
switch board operator with all her
carly morning calls and late ap-
pointments . .. T. P. Johnson had
no statement for the press :7°~. he
claims Virginia a limber lady with?
lucious lips ... Oglesby was snaked
all over by the good looking singer °
in the band during the unannounc-

gram this year than ever before,| Pei Pit Moore. the mim who has |ed—interludes- No dope is -forth~
. ' woe Ted aes .
according to statistics just re-| retired from the great game of

leased by the department head.

in the column referred to.,.it was| talents. to lectures on siding may
inural _equipment._l disayree_with/Lbromught out that the softballs. fur-| be found i

football and is now devoting his

nished by the department. were
unfit for game use. Why is this

true? Obviously it is because we| snake for he managed to have one
abuse them.’ It was also pointed | late Friday and two-Saturday. How
of sur Intramural Director, Coachj out that the - various - fraternities | did Jonas feel when he got flushed
ete” Whittle, the student body | have to furnish their own catch-| for the dances and also on a late?
is offered more in-the- way of °in-| en's mask. I think this is only fair.| Telt us how you keep your -record
than] It certainly -~woutd—-not= be_fair_to]so clean, Karl

fr the vestibule of the
hotel. ,

Scott seems to be the: biggest

Gentle Ghost

coming from the deals to W. & L.
and to Chapel Hill by Cauble and
Bahnson in, the first ‘lot with Rice,
Winn, Watt. ete. pulling for the
Hill... Why can't the Ape get in
the operator class instead of sitting
back and making weak cracks
about the column now that he is
retiring? The wreck was not that_
bad, Méans 7. . By the way, the
guy who has been writing the stale
and sorry Snooper in‘the run-down

ever before. Previdtisly no one bur make the non-fraternity men pay| Glenn won the golf tournament on
the athletic officials have-been al-| for those things which do not bene-| the golf course for
lowed to check out equipment. This | fit them. Besides it looks as if the
year, since the Intramural Depart-]| fraternities could_ contribute a little.

magazine is Tud the Stud Ludam—
Don’t try to deny it, abernasty!

has been especially trained to teach public
speaking. and who devotes his entire time
to that work.

Many people would fail absolutely to find
anything inceresting or worthwhile in a
ramshackled room such as The Davidsonian

the week-end

ment has established an injramural

headquarters. But with a little imagitiation
the ugliest surroundings may be transform:
ed into a very treasure-house of tradition
and even romance, Just so, the reader who
is thoughtful enough to bring a little imag-
ihation and human sympathy with him when -
he reads The Davidsonian will find per-
haps that the paper. does contain a bit of
worth while news, a bit of useful thought,
a handful of stimulating ideas. It’s a_cu-
Operative enterprise, and wi
stall can do nothing. ‘
Go

Naturally it is hard io find @ man who
measures up to the standards set by the
administration. and who is at the same
ume a capable person, But, if Davidson is
to hold its piace among the leaders in
southern cducational circles, there must be

-. a publie speech department.

When a man goes out into business.
teaching. seience, or any of the professions
tie tinds many uses ior a good iundamental
knowledge of the art of public speaking.
Without such knowiedge he is handicapped,
and although this may be overcome, it is’
usually only with ditfieulty and hard work.

-How much better it would be if that man
had learned bow to speak well in pabhic
while @ college student!

Or

This Colle

(By ASSOCIATED COLLEGIATE PRESS)
“The Emory Wheel. newspaper of Emory

University, declaring that “since ‘the pro-
fessors divide students into classes it is safe
io assume that all professors can also be
divided fio classes," offers these group-
ings:

The Killer type. He wants to kill off the
lower third and thinks the best way is by
overwork. ~ —
|_The Card Type. He is a card, but not au”
~ace. He's a 3x5.card. Outstanding is his’ in-

dex appeal,

The spicy type. He has a lot of cheek and

giate World

a

The administration realizes the need for

o such a man. and has been attempting to se-

cure one for next year. It is our belief that

the acuteness of this need warrants any

extra expense or trouble that tt would take

to get a.man to teach such a course next
year.

——_0:

“SUPPORT THE™SING’-
Thus iar there has been little said or
heard about zhe interisratemity sing. The

aa

thout you the |

stockroom, any member of the stu:
dent body can check ont footballs,-
basketballs, softballs, bats, or near- |
ly any kind of athletic equipment.
We, also have a new and larger
intramural field.*

Evidence of the enlarged
ereatly improved intramural
gram is obviols — from the

and
pro-

fact

Film’ Report Card

By DAVID VOSBURGH

After all, intramural softball is con-
ducted only for them, °

Of course 1 agree that our .intra-
mural program is not perfect, but
what is? One thing is certain, how-
ever, and that is that we are en-
jJoying much better athletic facili-
ties this year than last, thanks to
“Pete.”

F

Thursday, Friday and Saturday
May 2, 3, and 4 |

“ +e ee

“Gone With The Wind": Clarkrtormanee of

/Gable, Leslie Howard, Vivien Leigh,
and Olivia de Havilland. 3

—lKinally thee show of four time
has reached here. Nor enough can
he written iw praise’of such a per-
iormance as this/When you see it

exciling
the day. All that you ever hoped
for on the screen has comé true, all
thé beauty is revealed in Techni-
‘color, all the thrill. the heart-stab-
bing drama, the tense action, the
powertul love story, are here for
you to live over again on the screen.

A true fepresentation of the Old

Pa
json gtfd Ralph Morgan.

Phe wild man of the sereen re:
turns to action to give us a ‘per-
laughter and yior-
Eddie Cantor plays the part of the
bad hay who-is always in trouble

and 1s constantly worried by the Georgia Tech-Finals and the Uni-
helping hand of old ladies, friends, | versity of Georgia’s corresponding
and girls, Eddie smooths over his | >ét. Good news it is that we will get
many troubles with the aid, of/to hear them again, in Charlotte
you will realize why it is the most; Judith Anderson. who adds much to; about May 21, when they play for
topic of conversation of+the show.

Wednesday
May 8
tee

“Courageous Dr. Chriitian:”:-Jean|"¢y Rapp's place, both of which

his found that rare combination of

By Billy Masters

DISC-CHORDS.

and Hoss Reeves

@ Johnny Long came down for
Spring Frolics with what «turned
out to be the best band we've had
all vear. His music, sorta on the
Kemp side, proved truly danceable, !
and his swing was a delight to -all
the jitterbugs. In Helen Young he

beauty
voice.

cAnd

wv

haw! and a good
From the Armory Satitrday night
the band went toAWhite Lake, and
ipen is to head back: north to the
Tri-State area before hitting New
York, for recording session.
Thenee on—ta_New_England for
college dates, and then back to
the deah old South to catch the

a

script _dance_ there. About the
second week in June Johnny and
the boys move cither into the West-
chester Country Club or into Bar-

ri

Hershalt, Dorothy ,Lovett, Robert|#r¢. in Cincinnati. There they will

Baldwin and Tom Neal.

be heard over an NBC , network;

The lovable old doctor ‘of the|so when vacation time rolls around,

Scretn returns to give us anotlier| we w

it! fave a definite date with

season.

@ With some of the larger cities
gomg on Daylight’ Saving Time,
be sure to note your radio sche-

;dules, because some good changes

have been made. Gene Krupa is
coming on two afternoons a week
over_NBC, and_their_ Saturday aft-
ernoon programs look plenty good.
@ Bob Chester seems to be doing
all right for himself. He recently
spent a very quet little week-end
in’ Massachusetts. On Saturday he
and his crew smashed the record
at—Boston’s Raymor:; Sunday they-
packed ‘em-in at Worchester, and
then Monday half of - Springfield
turned. out to greet them.

@ Bonnie (Oh! Johnnie). Baker is
threatening Mrs. Roosevelt's title af
the most photographed woman..
Since Wee Bonnie has been on the
Hit Parade, she has been photo-
graphed. over 500 times.

@ In the way of records note—
Johnny Long's “Louise,” which is .
not so new but quite nice. Also
don't miss Earl Hines’ “Body and
Soul.” This is a record. that defin-
itely re-establishes the “Father”
as one of the greatest pianists of
all times. He's quite subtle in it;

South. before the war, during the] rémarkable movie This show gives
’ s he s om a : NBC to bear Johnny Li i
date has heen announced. the sponsors, and war_ancLafter the war. The scene] one the idea of the many good , y Long and his

plenty of tongue to put in it’ His lectures so listen about six times to hear

the rules, Sus, Weve -seemsto_he_a_genera Kick up intettectuat sparks out of the aca- {ofthe _story_is laid_around Atlanta) things that may be done in one's orchestra, remembering his as the| notes you -missed the first few
~__lack_of imeerest in it. A new idea like this demic flint and the adjoining land. Clark Gable| own home town. Jean Hlersholt}/best set of dances of the '39-'40 times. |
necils a good start to enable it to become | . as—Rhett—Butler and_Vivien Leigh! playsithe part_of the small town i

The Skimmer typé. The surfacing in his

an annual event. if the sing ts to become a
suecess and become a yearly event it must
have the enthusiasm and support of the

students to back it

courses is fine. But the foundation is weak.

The Fatherly type. He is the unexpectant
father, always giving pop quizzes.

The Hard Rock type. You have to be

-more than a good musician to hit a high C
under this joker. If he were a movie critic
he wouldn’t even give the United States
flag 48 stars.

The Uh-Man type. He doesn't know any
punctuation except ‘‘uhs.” For_variety he
throws in a “but uh” now and then. -

The Cocktail type. He whets your intel-
lectual appetite. He knows a great deal but
doésn't-try to make everybody realize it

The Candy-Between-Meals type. A course:

Probably ore reason for the apparent lack
‘of interest is that the time is still two
weeks away. Although this seems a long
time now, it is not so long, when one réal-—
izes that each Traternity will have to spend
some time on practice and arrangements.
Since all this cannot be done in one day,
it must be placed over a period of days. If
the fraternities will start this practice at
once, interest will naturally rise, and the

as Scarlett O’Hara give the great-
est performance of their career in
this thrilling movie. Anyone that
misses this show has missed the
picture-of.a-lifetime. All seats at|
hight will be reserved.

~ Monday and Tuesday
May 6 and 7
. *tyK
- “40 Little. Mothers”: “Eddie Can-
tot, Judith Anderson, Rita John-

doctor, who lets his medicine fall,
by the wayside in order to help
out in the family affairs of | tlie]

town people. He.then gets himself
in sétious trouble as the result of
notable gestures. Well acted
with deft comedy touches to light-

nis!

eu the more heart trying sequenc- |=

es. “The Courageous Dr, Christian”

is a film for the whole family.

Quotable Quotes

‘Colleges cannot talk about demo-
cracy and at the same/time refuse

under him destroys your intellectual appe-
tite.
“The Axe-Grinder type. He can’t sharpen
his wits, so he has to grind an axe. Some-
times it’s propaganda he grinds out.
Optional—The Nomad type. Like the No-
mad of the desert he loves to wander, and
what he wanders over is -as dry as the
desert. as

thing is bound to go over.

Without the active support of all stu-
dents, our interfraternity sing will flop. No.
one wants this, and the only way to insure
its success is to talk it up, practice, and
turn out on May 16. Let’s get behind this
thing and push it over the top, |

€

to allow democratic principles and
methods to be used on their ownl
campuses. Boards of trustees, facul-
ties as well as student bodies, must
see democracy as a way of life ef-
fective here and everywhere.” Dr.
Gould Wickey, Council of Church
Boards of Education secretary, de-
mands that students and faculty
members practice what they preach.

“So long as the state pays the

t

By TOM

Compassing - Campuses

CAUBLE

A DISSERTATION ON SALEMIC |
SIRENS
By TOM CAUBLE |

. . As recounted at the eleventh
hour from the real life experiences
or Beester Burwell:

The term “Salemic Siren" seems
to have. been first used.in the case
of.the famous “Maid of Salem” who
was put to death in the year 1692
along with seventeen other persons
accused of participation in witch-

expense of junior college education | craft in the village of Salem. Mass.

at the state university or the’ state

Since the martyrdom of-the ori-

teachers college, there is every rea- ginal, however, Salemic Sirens seem

: .. to
son why it should also participate leas

in the expense of local public jun-

ior colleges which operate on the] stake since.

same level.” Dr. George F. Zook,

have fared enviably well. “At
t to the best of my knowledge
not one has been burned at the

This decreased mortality rate in

president of the American Council the ranks is more understandable,

on Education, thumps for

support of junior colleges.

o

State

however, when one considers that
while the 1692 Siren was thought
guilty ‘of casting evil spirits into

fellow-beings and communing with
the devil, the modern S. S. is sus-
pected of lesser misdemeanors such
as accepting a Mid-Winters’ Invi-
lation, and at a slightly later date
regretting that she. won't be able’
to come until the Saturday dances.

And whereas the Pre-Revolution-
ary Salemite sat in church in mortal”
fear of the Sexton's. pole, a willow —
with a, squirrel’s tail at one end,
which would be applied to her per-_
son in case she nodded or dozed, .
the modern Miss is more interested *
in that pole which casts, on a sunny |
afternoon in May, its shadows '*
across her shining visage and. fluffy
white pastel.

Again, whereas the old order
thought more or less simply -(of
witches and sorcery), the contempo-
tary colleen’s mental processes are
more of. the jumbled “stream of

(Continued on Page Sis)

