Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Pavidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915 :

1938 - Member 1939
———_—- Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest
— Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
———_——T_ = —————SSSESEESSSSSSS—

AEPREBENTEO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING OF

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publisbers Representaisve

420 MADISON AVE New Yoru. N.Y.

CHICAGO * BOSTON + LOS.ANGELES * SAR FRANCISCO 1

: =o : = Smee Rt
7 Vntercd as secoml class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, +
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd. 1879. ¢

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF |
RUSINESS-MANAGER_|

——— 1

ANDY DALE

“EDITORIAL: STAFF

- Paul Bomlarger Assistant

Fon Cate NX Tat t

~ Jou’ bales Associate sor
Ed Wateen . Associate tor
Lawson Withers Associate Editor
Dick Cobb: cee -Managing Editor
Harwell Darby 7 - - Managing Editor
Rob Garvey .. . Managing Editor
Woe. Ilurkest Managing
Ab-Wiint = Managing
Bob Carter ee. ee Sports

Bob Williams -.
Angus [Lytch .

weeee-na--yMovie Editor
....Staff, Photographer

BOSINESS STAFF
Heibert Codington ..: . sst. Business Manager
. ydenes . Advertising. Manager
Advertising Manager.
Circulazion Manager
Circulation Manager
--Collection Manager

Fldredec Brown '
Jack Covingion . .
Fred Tettle

Tins paper is the official history of college life,
adr tedttihie iistidentand_faculty opinion As
such ay welcomes any contribittions or communica-
tions to it. provided such does not contain derogatory
reference to faculty ov students. profanity, obscenity,
-er destrfictivecciticism. All material must be in_the_
editor's hand by Monday night of the week that it
ascto He printed, and the editor reserves the right to
reject part‘or all of any contribution or communication,

The Davidsonian extends its deep-
est sympathies to Joe Shelton in t

rr 2

é
recent loss of his father. “

No Political interest

"Interest in campus polities seems to be.
at the lowest chb in vears at the present
ume. Elections have been run off so
smeotniy and ertieiently under the new set-—{-
up under the control of an Llilections Board.
that the usual things which cause general
comment and argument are lacking for-the
lirst ume.

Thus far we have not heatd any, memots ~
ot ‘dirty polities.” or of polities az all.
While many doubted the virtues of the néw
system: the test of use fas proved that the
Elections Hoard ean and does do away with.
many oi the evils of elections under the
“elosed”.- system.

The ideal of this system is every maa
voting as he sees fit. with no outside m-
iiuence on his vote. While this method inay
faii to bring the, qualitications of certain
eandidates before the voter's mind, it cer-+
tainly does away with swapping votes, and
open solicitation of votes for a certain man
or group. .So-far the elections have been

_ run off with a minimum of these. things
but also with a minimum of interest.

Of course the candidates and the groups
with which they happen to be directly con-
nected are interested. but general interest
‘and coticern is lacking. This is not as it
shouid be. Naturally students do not con-
trol schoof policies and standards, but they
do determine the vital character of the stu-
dent_body whici composes the school. These
elected leaders iniiuence and help deter-
‘mine policies of the student body, and be-
cause these elected men are to be in such
a position. it seems plausible that. there
should be a great deal of interest as to

_ whom the ofiiees should go to.

However, there appears to be no remedy
for the lack of interest. As long as elec-
tions go on under the present system Da-
vidson will have cleaner politics, and this
is certainly better for a school of this type.
If lack of student interest goes along with

this, so be itz” ‘But -how muctr better—-
would be if the student body was concerned
about the outcome of each election. Per-
haps this would draw out a few more votes,
so that a man would be elected by a major-
ity of most of the student body, instead of
by a majority of the few interested, plus
the few more who happen to pass the polls
during the day.

Let’s wake up! Find out what’s going
on, and why. Use your vote, and be con-
cerned as to who shall be our leaders,

Interfraternity Sing
Spring’s return brings to mind the inter-
fraternity sing which was proposed last
{ an _

1
4

‘

—sing'> would—provide..recognition tor the_

. belled again at the uniformity that per-

fall. Since that time there have been no
evident preparations for such an event, al-
though it was then stated a “sing” would
he held during the spring semester, with a
suitable trophy going to the fraternity judg-
ed best.
. There seems to be no very powerful argu- .
ment as to why Davidson should have such
a thing, and the school has gotten along
very well in the past without. one. How-
ever, at-vanous other schoo’s these song-
fests are ‘held yearly, attended by great
interest amd long preparation on the part of
the participants. It appears to us that this
would be a tradition well worth starting.
something which could be built up into a
big thing. .
There would be no material value derived.
and many would regard such doings as
Sentimental nonsense, but we believe the
majority of students would welcome an in-
terfraternity sing. From observation we
—-believe that most students like to sing— |
“at ieast to try. [ft dhis is true, then a

various groups, and should become a worth-
while tradition, With ihe sponsorship of
the Senior class, ODK -or some sienilar—
organization, it could not tail to go over.
There is ho pressing need for it. but it_
would be another bright spot in a some
times dull vear, and would furnish a goal for>
‘the singers t work toward. Oy oreper
handling it should be developed into a wide-
lv anticipated, yearly event, and become a
vital part of Davidson tradition.

) With The Staff

LET’S THINK!

-| fatalities and-injuries to pedestri-

In its interesting analysis of the
hows, whys and whens of automo-
bile accidents in 1937, The Travel-
ers Insurance Company has pub-
lished some revealing figures re-
lating to pedestrian deaths. With

ans rising at an alarming rate, the

figures are worth the attention of |
every individual. :
~ Nearly 28 per cent of the deaths;
the figures indicate, resulted from
the obviously unsafe habit many
walkers have of crossing in the|ing diagonally in the intersection

-Lageasidn.—_H ughjohnLhroop, —wh

“}.diithe campus, also enjoyed -the

Thurs., April 18, 1940

GLEANINGS.

By MELVIN MEANS

With the Spring and the bright

fied. Don't blame me, Ed... We.

| flowers come further revelings from} wonder if Fred Boykin’s increasing

the boys “seen about town.” The
sessions on the steps of Georgia
with “Bustle” leading the singing
give warning that the “calciumated”
lags are on the loose once again...
Perhaps the most notable escapade
of the current season occurred: Fri-
day nite. It was so successful that
it took all but three of the moguls
off the first Moor Georgia—which
| am sure you are all tired of
hearing about. -“They  say’\ that
the Barn Dance at Greenville really
was the thing. Jim Anderson caught
up with a little back sleep at the
function when he napped as éx-
tensively as possible under the eir-
‘cumstances on a decorative hay-
stack. Genial Bosco was more than
entertaining. establishing eestdences
in Scranton and Chester to suit the

has rapidly -gained more .prestige
in his role of the biggest operator

interest in lovely Miss Nancy Emery
is going to take him 10 Atlanta
again this week-end??? . And
one of the most peculiar of the
budding romances (?) migfit,.be
noted in the movie most any night.
All you have to do is keep an eye *
on Bill Bolin—She is a cute trick,
Bill. ... We hesitate to mention the
fact, but in case anyone is inter-
ested they. might question Ray
Minges and Sam Overby regarding
their activities of the pasts week.
They can take it... And the first _
of the house-party reports drifts
in with the tale of Tom Guion,.
Lawson Withers and Ted Leinbach-
checking a fine time down on the
coast. Girls and. all. With all
his intellectual appearance we tho't
that “Yank” Milne would Prove
Linvulnerable to such prattle as baby _
talk. But such did not prove the
case. A demure: tass “chawmed”
him for several hours-in Gastonia.

evening. Also taking part in the
old-fashioned “reel were Glenn.
Arnotd,” Crook. Bahnson,.

Currie, |

middle of the block.

Of the 27.5 per, cent or a total
of 4,450 pedestrians killed while
crossing at intersections, only 280
met death while crossing, as they
should, with the signal. No less
than 1,100 died when they at-
tempted to cross against the: sig-
nal light or the officer’s signal. The
remainder were killed while cross-

FRESHMAN CONDUCT

Has there ever been anything on your

|_mind that you wanted to say publicly at _

Davidson. and that you never quite dared
192... Have you ever changed your entire

- outlook on a subicet because it was an un

popular outlook among the student body ?
This mass opinion is a dangerous thing. but
it cam be turned to happier channels.

~ When the time comes ior gathering re—}

plies ‘to the Question of the Weck, we see
the darker side. of a narrowed thinking.
li che first two answers. come in negative -

, ly, the remaining ones wiil be in the same

vein. There are some few exceptions among
our student body who wilf take the side of
the anderdog. but they are so grossly out_
numbered as to be practieally inconsequent-
ial. For this reason of untiormity, the
great number of our readers are hkely
merely to skim over the Question of the -
Week aiter having the collected dope trom
Apie’s column.

Pvery now and then someone gets up in
chapel in support of an unpoptiar issue and
this: brave person sineerely tries to make
the icllow students see his convietion, What
are his results? He is booed down by a
goudly nuniber of students, or ii the re-
spanse is milder, hé is politely ignored by
pracucally everyone. Flow can we he sub-
ject to many changes if we keep in this
rut? This vear seems to have brought
Orth a few changes, which seem to be de- |
finite improvements. Fhis has been due to
the student body’s acceptance in a small
part of what started out to be the opinion
of a minority. Let’s let this spirit of ready
listening inerease itseli daily among all’ six
hundred or.so of us!

It cannot be denied that “mob fecling”
can accomplish good things. Our. honor
system seems to rest on this spirit: Many
‘ireshmen come here—from schools where
cheating was considered great sport, only
to find it frowned upon by the majority of
our Davidson gentlemen. This realization
is obliged to work hasty changes in the
ireshman’s outlook, and he can feel a be-
ginning of the spirit that, if we permit it,
can tend to dull our creative senses. We
come to accept and admire everything that-
is handed down to us, good or bad, never
stopping to judge whether or not it is suit-.
able te our own personalities.

Why all of this column df “With the
Staff?" Aiter hearing complaints all even-
ing oi.the poor, response to the question
sent out this week, something inside reé-

vades our thought as we pass our years at
Davidson. It is not the fault of this parti-
cular student body; there are indeed few
schools of Davidson’s small enrollment that
do not have this condition, manifold. The
larger universities seem to foster greater
variety of thought and action, but a sur-
vey of small schools will doubtless prove
that a majority of them exist under the
same circumstances as does Davidson.
Someday the larger percentage of the
students here today will be faced with -re-

[Continued on Page Sis] ao

Dear Andy:
As freshman 1 would dike to
comment a bit upon the slam 7
the Freshman Glass by ~Two ot
the Class of 40° in Letters to the
Editor last week.
__Our conduc: in Chapel most cer-
tainly is mot everything -i1 should

a

7 Letters To The Kditor-

or while crossing at intersections
where there was no signai.

Other leading causes of pedes-
trian deaths, in order of their
importance were: walking on
rural highways. children playing
in the street, coming into the street
from behind a parked car, men at
work in the roadway, and hitching
Tides. —

Lemmond, Buddy-Roe and Ross.
Incidentally, word drifts back that
Bill was “drooling” with Pony at
the La Petite . And speaking
of dances, T don't believe that we
all fully appreciate the band that
the Pan-Hell boys ffhally secured
for us. Johnny Long at the price
he is: offered to the student body
is far more than a bargain. While
this is bias first trip South in some:
time, his popularity in Boston’s
Statler Hotel and New York's

sevelt is umsurpassed. Though

oe

NEW LIBRARY SITE
be . findiffy conflicts with other
Dear Andy: «
dances, you"had better get-busy and

Now chat the money Ras been] oo set_for the 26 and 27... . Bob

raised for the new library. the
-next thing scems to be selection
,of acbutlding site. Thus far no de-
'yinite place was beea anounced,
but the campus. is thick with

|

‘Combard, Anne Shirtey-and—Brian

ea her.

rumors that it is tot be placed
‘ilush with the roadway running by

;the ontside of traternity court.
ayd copy them we have. The writ-: These may be qust rumors, Wey
crs OF this letter seem to think that ™4y de Tact. The building could
i) is the job of the treshmen to; b¢ Placed tar enoagh wp in the
stand out hy acting lke gentle. | [ot so as not to-he direetlysinstront-
men in Chapel. As t understand the‘! the raternity houses: that is,
situation, it is the funetion of «he 5° that the library will not ahso-
seniors to set an example for the | !Htely cut off the view of ate chree.
rest’ of the school, particularly houses on that side of the court.
freshmen, to follow. Such an ex-
ample has not been tortheoming. |
ot

be, but it is only natural that
ireshimen coming jazo a school-copy
the actions of the upper clasémen.

near the road, it will be so near

The purpose of the. Court the Kappa Sig. Phi Delt, and Sig
Control is to keep the freshmen in] fy house practicaly to prohibit the
order.-Ehe class cant he blamedy Playing of radios of, victrolas at
because the Court is too impotent * Ail. besides necessitating general
quict, and placing a briek wall
across the street trom those three
houses,

‘to see the matter through.
As far as speaking on the campus
concerned, | think freshmen
have been quick to catch on to
this Davidson tradition and make it{ the administration would see fit to
as regular a practice as any of the; piace the library too close-to these
upper classes. | houses, but until the location is
We_ may; be acting more, and announced, tt will seem very pos-
more like sophomores every day.| sible to those concerned, We hope
but after all, aren't. we getting clos-| the administration will keep these
er and closer to that day when wel things ‘in mind when deciding on
shall be’ sophomores? the site:
BILLY ROGERS, °43.

w

‘40, 41.

Film Report -Card

By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday, April 18 Jane Withers and Robert Lowry.

dee sey, Gene Autry again plays the part
” “Swiss Family Robinson”: Thom-| of a singing cowboy in a western
as Mitch Freddie Bartholomew.| that is packed with action and ex-
and Edna“Best. citement. Jane Withers adds much

An old “and lovable —childhood | to the show as she sings, rides and
classic is brought to the = screen gives a general all round perform-

with Thomas Mitchetl playing .the{ 29ce.
part of_the father and_Edna_ Best |
portraying the mother. The wealthy
watchmaker takes his family out of
London, during the Napoleonic
days, in an effort to bring his
four -children up right. While they
are at. sea a storm arises and
leaves them shipwrecked upon a
desert island. The mother tries to| Tyronne had such a role: Johnny.
make the boys live as they. didj was looked upon by the law asa
in London but is finatly won over{ vicious killer -breed—but only as
to, the life on the island. ta hurt and embittered boy in the
. . 7 eves of “his girl who desperately.

Friday, April loved him. She attempts to make

*e* ‘| him reason and also to prove to the

“Vigil In The Night”: Carole| world that he was a good boy who
hid gotten a wrong start: Dorothy
Lamour adds glamour and action to

‘Monday and Tuesday
April 22 and 23

eet

“Johnny Apollo:” Tyronne Po-

Arnold.
Not since- “Jesse James" has

19

Aheme.

Carole Lombard sets out to do
honor to the profession which she
has chosen for her life’s work, that
of_ nursing. Many obstacles have
to] be overcome by her in‘ order
to lead the life she wishes. Among

them are plagues, bad people and|
unruly sister, Anne. Shirley.
Many a scene is stolen by Anne
from Carole as they rage a friendly
war. Brian Aheme plays the part

of a young and good-looking doctor.

Saturday, April 20

st 7

“Shooting High: ”

the story as she reveals more of

her allure than ever.

Wednesday, April 24
s *
“And One Was Beautiful”: Ro-
bert Cummings;-Lorraine Day and
Jean Murry. ; 7
Although this picture has a. two
star rating, by {Movie Guide”, we
were unable to find any informa~
tion about it. However, it is known
to be a very romantic and enter-
taining picture.
4 - en

wp

’

Gene Autry,

4urit_the building is piaced__too]

jthe attack and domination of the.

tc does not seem Teasonabic thats

well, Dorothy Lamour-and—Edward

—
. }

Garvey, for some inexplicable rea-
son. has his heart intent upon sce

ing Peggy Sadler's name in print.

Saliddy nite with just such a fine.
... Karl Hudson and Oglesby were
in the Queen Cjty with Margaret
Wood and Joy Paxton respectively.
Hudson continued toward a more
perfect week-end when In company
with Pony Montoc, specifically, and
Sam and Margery Toole generally
Spent a pleasant time in Montreat.
... Jimmy Houston isn’t handing
cout much dope on just why he has
hecome so interested in Erskine
and Due West... With the intro-
duction of three Mooresville misses

on the campus Monday nite, Dick

many of the local woe'rs seem to| MTudson” transferred his attentions

from Cornelius and along with
Balsley and Claude Hackney took
an interest in the Spring ._._. And.
in parting, Thanks to all you fel-
lows who-have been struggling witli,

Here it is, Bob, hope you are satis-j this column for me.

Compassing The Campus :

Guest Columnist: Horace Blutz

Wistful whispering of a White-
ville. Whizzer or the art of Cony-
Catching as carried out by one of
a notable covey of Converse cuties:

Step one in this stag-baiting epis
sode is of course the attractiois and
the concentration of the unsuspect-
ing victim’s mental and = physical
facilities to herself by the cutie.
Each individual set of girls at the
aforementioned institution seems to!
have its own rules and maxims for

selected Cony. That which follows |
comes ‘irom the Memoirs of a
Captured Converse Cony.

The baiting in. his case was ac-
complished thusly: the Cony being
from -a notably -swampy country
,and therefore not used to the high,
valtitudes of the Spartan City. is
made more susceptible to the cutic’s
wiles by a. natural ethereal intoxica-

way toward a seat with ideas of
procuring and masticating a frank:
turter. The actual assault begins
during the first few paces of this
seemingly unfateful journey. The
iirst volley is fired point-blank by
the cutie in the very effective mati-
ner of a twenty-gun ocular salute.
(The carefree Cony is dropped dead
sin his tracks by this dazzling dental
display. Faltering in mid-stride he
secs immediately -his possibility of
approach in a conveniently placed
nickelodeon which is within very
close speaking distance of her. Lit-
tle does he know that this is her
planned means -of.~engaging the
prey. She carefully ignores our
heroic Whizzer as he

he saunters Over
and contemplates the list of rec-
ords, but. as he withdraws from
-his—pocket—a— handfulk .of small
change she whirls around, . having
detected out of the corner of her
eye the gleam of the
specig, arid Sayst (quotey Would'
you mind too. much if asked you
to play number ten~Lit's Charlie
Barnett’s Cherokee. (unquote) Our
Hero, figuring this his cue to look
impressed, (although he didn't know
the “diffeyence between “Moon-
light Serenade” and “Turkey In
the Straw”) politely says: “Sho!”
while nodding his head in a know-
ing way. He inserts his five cent
piece and proceeds to put the
mainder of his change in his poc-
_ket _at_which_instance she invites.
him over to join her in a coke.
Now that the Cony is snared, the
cutie proceeds into the second phase
known as “Advancing the Attack.”
It is in this phase that the now.
useless equipment used in the ap-
proach march is cast aside and more
effective armament unlimbered. She

! . t ,

By TOM.

tion. He  swaggers. into La
Riffe-Rafle—-Salle a manger
and. beings to thread hish

sparkling "°
© i lished they secure a strategic booth

CAUBLE___

= . ae
adroitly steers the conversation in-

to such channels as will boost the
already aroused cgo of our hero—
stoking her imagination with the
Cony’s cigarettes, stimulating her
thoughts with the,numerous coca-
colas, and -conditioning’ the atmos-—
phere with the playing of “Chero-
kee” time and time again. At this
point our hero is feeling expansive
due to her careful development. and_
generates enough fortitude to ask
her to -attend the Annual Plow-
Roys’ Frolic for which he has come
to town. Now of course the un-
suspecting Cony could not be ev-

j pected to know that she had en-

tered La Riffe-Raffe Salle a Mang--
er for the express resolution of
obtaining a consort for thig Agrari-
an Pall. She has her answer ready

{and fires a demure acceptance, but

later finds that she can't go to the
dance after all so he is to date
her in La Riffe that-night.
Naturally the two-block stroll
from La Riffe to the dorm is too
long for the militant cutie to per-
ambulate, so the Wistful ‘Whizzer
contracts Mr. Clark (facsimile of
Ben Beal) to transport the little
beauty home, at which time several
friends emerge from an adjoining
booth to bear her company.
_ During this interval between “
rendez-vous, the cutie rushes dormi-
tory-wards to pretty, polish, and
paint, while our enamored swain
repairs to replenish the depleted
exchequer. , .
~ As she enters the parlor at school
that hight; the spectacle of~-her-
beauty so inundates him that he
-has to grab a parlor pole for sup-
port.. This phase is called “Attack
with the Bayonet” in the military..
When.our hero can navigate again,
they depart once more for La Riffe-
Raffe. As it has been fully half an

hour since she has heard “Chero=
kee”, she desires to hear same
again immediately. This accomp-

next to.the jook-organ from which
the cutie can command 4 view of
all new-comers at some distance.
As each new male saunters in, she
smiles, waves, or gesticulates with-
out exception. Finally it occurs to
ey itewashed Whiz that the
° way he can hold a part of
her attention ig to provide ample
supplies of music, cokes, gum,_etc.,
etc. :

The evening passes thus delight-
fully and our warrior being -fully
assured a to thé latent possibilities
of the young lady, asks her per-
mission to bear her attendance at
some latér date: Such permission is
freely and enthusiastically granted.
In this happy frame of mind, the
Whiz attends the almost forgotten
Plow-Boys’ Ball at which he bliss-

(Continued on Page Sis}
