. "aes

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN , Thurs., Dec. 12, 1946

Page Two s

whas they should «do with studems 23 re-
gards the national draft law.

The .Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915
* Metnue:

Associaled Colletiate Press

Cis burer of
Coliaricia Nigest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

DAY'S
‘DIARY

BY

BILL LEMMON

Stas

lt seems that.one group favors the blanket
deferment of all students. while another
wishes such men to be piaeed in vocationai
_classes, and deferred or called out by that.
Still other groups are behind various modi
fications of both systems, with no tinat word
i as LO What is to be done yet.' .

\s for the present..though. 1 seems highly
unhkely that aay student will be foreed to
leave school this vear to answer the draft
And to answer the question of those who

; are not yet 2f vears of age, the President
can eall {or annother registrazion at any

time he wishes, but it also seeins highly im
| probable that-he will do so betore the fail
next year. Which shonld be heartening

™~ kid. Note:
cd withipnt benetit of copy-reading,
changing o. typographieal’ errars,

This column is print-[a trip of this type to last several
weeks.__ .Gene_Wine poped up in
PRAanoakeas usual.to grab —a--quick
cle, exattly as turned in to us.) dateewith his lock... Spider Kuntz
Daler our singing cowboy and hill billy,

[f vou need the last page use it] pm on aw show in Mooney’s station
it save tt for me = to- use Fri. with some of the town boys
nextsweek, Dope will be -hard -to] playing his guitare while he stuck
“Lemmon. [ta the Valin. is dream is the “Sil-
ver Slipper”.

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
~~ Charlottes North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

®

Ten cents

hint not

REPRESENTEO FOR NATIONAL AOVEATIGING OF _

National Advertising Service, Inc.

College Publishers Representative ae
420 MADISON Ave. New YorK.N. Y.

wet ft!

PS. lf ir is still too long cut at

Cereb ede Le ANGEL ER an Prancttco too many. H your convenience and take note of Since Fd Shewmake was the only.

; the done omitted. choy in the girls theater at W.C.

lent red ces serond-crass tmubter ate the Mort Office “ Davatsons 1 One thing whieh should be na catise for Thaskx Sat. he was the light which ‘on
“North Care urd me, “ot Mareb Srd. is” a XN. ~

lov. unless a man is anxious to sec the army
| ' betore his time comes. is that many leaders
—eeponly. questioning— the Jeiemucis
—.Tinients in lieral arts colleges. while inany

itsel? on when one of the opposite
sex mide a durbious. crack. . Here
we find Holt Barnwell’s date _offer-
fiy—to_carcy -his_bags_as_a_result_oi_

sefore catching the week's dope
on the boys let's whip back the cal-
and rer ta neotion 20b bas ley s PX

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL. STAFF. : ; hition on wrestling given on the} his roth treatment at Salem's
Padi Runihar. : - Assistant For {  ccucators are seeretly agrecing with them. | ‘beach at Wilmington Tommy | dance.so" ed" (she) claimed..
Tom Canbie Associate Vator ianmd should-anything he dove along. this Lane was approached by an avan-| Whuneacman. severes-relations bee
a ~ 7 se prouerauenm . am ston the itteomine dawn patrol
Ed Watson -Asegerate Edvor + line it would atiect Davidson directly. _ cause Christmas is drawing near he.
Litweon Withee Associate Editor i. y Irom the city catiy this week whoj js in fowel shap.Well, Sturdie John
Tn ab rt “Manas doe f No opinion ortconclusion coneecning the Travelers Safety Service inalleszave oP Ss condemn him to] Purdie stayed out until the small
arweil ath, Managing Kd tor 4 vee . . : 't?xx//! Bo claims . :
Bob Garvey Managing Fdwor ' above is offered, since we do not have satire - he thaving on that eet coca hours trying to range a severcnce,
OS Dke ee 4 . +e : Ls . * . : " ; at sweet coca-| sy the rumors Have it... .beest
Nant riot dl ceient intermation vet. But it is fead. for .ittle shoes with the scuffedsup toes, cola syrup even it it 4s gent. thru| Burwell shot in the K RE 7 Yall
? : y a . : . ” “Ol SS : 3 3 . WN, AN
Rob Uniter Sports Fattor | “thought. That look so small in his father’s hand, the mail, Watch your stay fellow} ar O:43.two hrs. lateclaiming a itat
David Voshuren ——Mowe-Ehitor | + Weren't you proud and big and grand she's slick ! ‘ i asPee P.
Bale Back sea Photoura; i Le : . > 3 : ; on the way in. . Pas.Peg Parsley
When you started this moming for A fact has come to the suriace.| had her inger bandiged up in cigar.
BUSINESS STAFF __ “No-One-Knows? -- {Adter much experimenting if was | fashion at this same afair Frank
Tam Plonk Aisivtant Business Manager e Mes _ decided by female prychologest that! Watker did ais operating in the vi-
Dick Kelly Ascistant Business Manager | With the-Sta -__.______ _Noa-One-Knows, with its « oeltries tall. practice was not put on but it was) cinits of Hollins. ..
Ea Sone ‘_rwawoy Mayiger eure aK AN Tis-golden ramparts and shining towers, ——pinndte: Vehy do all of tie gitis ar ee
Chark Watt eo Wate. = eC Glation Manager : 6 Kni hts and fairies and magic powers Converse watch a certain junior Jus as the boitle stopped onl
By BILL LYMAN ” § « . > Ne he i Hand Play Bahnson at the country
John Crichton. _ Collection, Manager . To tempt the heart of a traveler small! trom Florenet walk when she is. jul Sat.P Bawalked
Baxter Freez +. v Suliseription Manager leaving the dinning room? If you vtumedtincele joey - ee i" yeacon
‘| “ ” Now dusk has come and his feet are still can't answer it see Dick Manning | | ately juptped up and with his
NEW ANGLE cause i ht hi eyes fixed om Ais pray he started it
| : A beea it caught h Sawbuck | &Y pray s y
This paper tn the oficial histary of college Ite, ; Ere ever his knightly spurs are won, 2CCANSE e m. awe peesuate, bat after several spin
- a ey - Led OW ia fae: . \F ales SPuts
and is a medium ot stugent and tacufty opinion! spirit! Spitl Spiric! We have ‘had sehool i For his body was broken and crushed and done ] ved ra trcorge Ree ali Ln around the reception room *she
As such it ‘welcomes anv Contributions or com- niet oF : _ . : ere.torsook the Graham ot. Casino] ° :
vue ‘ ~ 4 spirit talked much this init that it has : first green hill. seenenagene ‘ ; nedy De Fd.
munications to it. provided such does not contain | sO h tind isi While yet he trudged to the first gree iof theS.A.E. dance ...Randy Dandy Inns tre speedy eet ah ad _
derogatory reference to faculty or students, pro- ccome a topic that some imd repulsive. O little shoes with ihe blood-stained toes, Dick.the-brother of. “the prominant {it ; ie to get the fush
ianity. obscenity, or destructive criticism. All | However. most of the talk has been about Olight wt-ofa boyish face ~ soph shot in school dorm Sunday the otf to He’ was thinking odf
janity. ol : : .. . : “—~{ —~——, e, ‘ ——] FOP Se SENOON - _
material musi be in the editor's hands by Monday | athleties and | don’t think the field of ath- | Wae thc the end of nig splendid race? night with two girls and the latter re etre ani looking at and
- os . . , 3 Ce? cally-caused s : , at sw F etter
night Ot ine wees that it is to be printed, and the | ctics is the only place that we tind sehoo! | ee as N K <? really’caused some noise down that ve owas sniftlin past anarked
editor resetves the right to reject part or all of any . spirit. Was this nis City of No-Once-Knows? —-- | way about 10:03pm. . as sniliing past anarkec
contribution or communication. ‘ Pp —Anne Sutherland Brooks. _ —| When Rugcutter* Kings date ered had ‘i a arieton and chee
soos : \ ; “4 . ,pertod had a lifed size picture of a
Activities of all types should come under : mised the bus to Rristol_ Sunday

Council Action Approved _

The annduneemeitt Monday ia chapel that
senior had been dismissed from school
‘or stealing came as a distinet surprise to
most of the student body, and has been |
cause for much comment since,

However, in every case it has heen noted
with-interest that while Davidson men gen-
uinely regret to see one of their number
exposed .and punished as @ tet, they do |
agrec that instant dismissal irom college is
the just and righteous penalty ior such an.
act.

The honor system at Davidson has been
eniorced by the siudents themselves for
quite'a tew years. bur this is the tirsl ease. ~{

?

to our knowledge, where a man has beea |
convieted on charges of stealing. But i: is |
indeed a iortunate thing * \
During the year entirely too. much money
has beeranissing. and altogether too many
other articles have disappeared irom the
dormitories, One man has now leit college °
because he was convicted by the Studem
Couneil, our representatives, of taking some-_|
thing which was not his. Whether or not
all that which has beén missed this vear

‘ean be aecounted for by this one man is of ”

no consequcace here.

Now the Student Government of David-
son has shown that i can and will uphold —
every part of the homer system with swiit-
ness and forec. In the past it has consistently
upheld other phases of the system, but be-
cause of the ditfieulty surrounding such
cases, has been unable to Batisfactorily cope
with the problem of stealing. But in this
case the Couneil has proved that it does

: d jobs
have “teeth,” and that it is doirg a goo 0p asked what they think about chapel the ma—

of apholding its sworn duty.

—~ This ease should definitely warn any other

man who might have such an impulse at
any «time in the future. We would like to be -
able to say that the Davidson stuflent body
definitely has no thieves or would-be thieves
in its midst. But, frankly, we all must rea-
lize that in a student body of this size, such

riots, cie,, that we have ever so often,

—in chapel which seemed to be testing the

“this head. This fall every time a group of
Students or any organization has offered '

the student body a@ program there has been
a general turnout for it. This is as great a
show oi school spirit as any amount of ve!l-
ing at the football games, and the students
should be commended for it, This idea of-
attending the productions of the organiza-
ions is not only a display of sehool spirit
but it is a defatte step jorward toward a
more cultural education, one of the rich
heritages that we are supposed to receive
upon coming to Davidson.

Still there remains a side of sehoo! spirit
that I think the students have tailed to see
or if they have scen it they have not re-
acted in the feast to it. This is the support
df disapproval shown toward student senti-
ment whether it be large or small. Here |
do not refer to the water tights and student
“but
| mean topics like the suggested change in. ;
chapel.

Severa! issues ago someone wrote a letter
to the editor concerning the idea of a change

students out to see if they were in favor of
a thange and, if so. what type of change.
.As_ he said, there was an open forum pro- .
gram last year in which the topie of com-
pulsory chapel and church serviees was dis-

cussed. At that time all the students present
expressed a great desire for a change of the
programs sinee they were failing short of
the goal set up at their beginning. However —
Sinee that letter was printed there has been

only one letter to the editor and one edito- -
Trai on this sudject. Ty the students are

jority say that it is not what it should be.
Why, then, if this is the feeling of the group,
doesn’t someone make some effort to maké™
the fact known that the students don’t like
the present system of chapel? :

It is not the position of the students to

thoughts will arise in the mnids of some—|—try to effect a plan whereby a change could

men, and that there is the prosability that

some men will put the thought into action.

Our student body dislikes to see any man
dismissed from school for violation of the —
honor system, but solidly backs the coureH—
when that body fairly finds the man guilty
of stealing. For there is no place here “for
a thief.

Arad

Draft Items
According to news received from the In-.

tercollegiate Washington Press, the Capitol
Hill big-wigs are as yet still undecided as to

be made, but the administration in eon-
junction with students that are capable of

‘handling such a question will not fail to look
into the matter when they see that the stu-

dents are sufficiently interested in the

matter.

There is a space in each issue of The
Davidsonian given over to letters from the”
student to the editor, so Iet’s use them and
1F there is a change dksired, let the faculty
help us to make one.

—BOB GARVEY, JR.

{thanks to Howard. Barlow, the Co-

~~ Song.

Of: The Sirens -

By JULIAN McCALL and Louis HITE

“Lite Day” Leminen has sug:
wested that we vary our column
by presenting the releases of
the heavier type. So in compliance
avieh this request, here it is, “Day”:

FLASH! Schubert's Second Sym-
phony, a delightful little affair, fi-
nally has reached the phonographs, !

new

lumbia Broadcasting Symphony, and
Columbia’s Atbum M-420. _
Rela Bartok doesn't conduct one
ot his productions. but he appears
as pianist in his *“Contrasts.” with |
the collaboration_oi Joseph Szigeti;
and) Benny Goodman (Columbia |
X-178). Its advanced saut?, played
brilliantly, which won't disappoint
the Bartok following but may ~be-
‘our-patron.” especially who

wilder
knows Mr..Goodman asx a swing-
ster—or as a‘ Mozart specialist. |
Leopold Stokowski, as the or-
chestral arranger of Moussorgsky’s
“Pictures at an Exhibition” might’
figure in’ this roster of “those with
roll thetr own, for he conducts the
Philadelphia Orchestra through his
own transcription on Victor
M-7001"Unless you take your origi-
nal Moussorgsky territty seriously,
youll enjoy this colorful adventure.
In the list of new recordings there

Thursday and Friday
Dec. 12 and 13

* *

~~

Betty -Grable-

This ‘is one of the best shows
to be show here all year. Alice
and Betty are two sisters that

come_from_a _-very_ poor home. and.

ci

Film Report Card

By DAVID VOSBURGH

“—“Tin Pan Alley”—Alice Faye and.

seck their success jon the stage
and in shows. Alice has very bad
luck_on_the-stage because of—her.
many romances but Betty hits the
top, except for the. fact that she
hates all-men. Finally she falls in
love and serious trouble starts. We
will wait and let you see just what
happens.

cy
°

~~ Saturday, Dec. 14
* “—_

“Texas Rangers Ride Again’—
John Howard, Broderick Crawford
cand Ellen Drew.

Ellen returns to her childhood
ranch in Texas and is very worried
over the cow thieves that are very
active. Howard and Crawford ride
in and, atter a lot of excitement
settle the rustlers’ hash. Elles, mean-
while, becomes accustomed to ranch
life, even fond of it—and of John.

oe

is the Beethoven violin concerto
Played by Jascha Heifetz and the
NBC Symphony, conducted by Ar-
turo Toscanini (Victor M-705),
which is entirely up to the best
standards, of Heifetz, Toscanini and |e
Retthoven. Strauss's “Also “Sprach
Zarathustra.” by Frederick - Stock
and the Chicago Symphony, is wel!
played and skillially recorded *(Co-
lumbia “M-421), 1f, however. you
already have the same work by
Serge Kousseviteky and the Bos-
ton Symphony (Victor M-257) the
new ‘isn't by any means
mandatory replacement. A definite
best is Sit Thomas Beecham’s ver-
sion_of the overture to Mozart's
“Don Giovaani” (Columbia 71305-D),
Along this line * ‘Thigo has -sug--
xesied the following: “I Want. to

issue a

Live.” and “Donat set lv Get “You
Down.” by johnny Tong: “I Ain't
Got -Nobody’ and = “*ffenderson

Stomp.” by the new Renny Good-
nan band: “1 Ain't: Gonna Study
War No “More” and "Minnie the
Moocher’s Dead.” by Jimmy Lunce -
ford: if llear a hapsody 7 and
“The Moon is Crying for Me.” by
Chartte Rarnett. The former is this!
column's nomination tor the record

of the week.

7k

It all makes a swell
laughs all the way.

picture with

Monday and Tuesday
Dec. 16 and 17

—__ —<* oe oe +
“You'll Find Out”—Kay Kyser,
Peter Torre, “Boris Karloff and
Dennis O'Keefe.

——Lhe_Ole__Professor_rides—_again
and in an entirely new and differ-
ent manner. Kay plays six new
and_haunting -songs -in _this —show..
The hand gets caught in a house
of villains and has to play very.
hard to get out of: Karloff’s grasp.
The movie is, full of tense excite-
ment and thrills that will keep yo:
on your nerve's edge. ,

-|- ae.

___. Wednesday, Dec. 18
-~ * yY

“Fireman Save My Child”—This
is. one of the better hits of a few
months ago. We are unable to tell
you anything about the show except
that it is very funny and has a fast-
moving plot. This will probably be
the last column before Christmas
and the manager. of the itheater,
along with the writer, wants fo
wish cach and every one a very
merry Christmas and a most happy
New Year. . vo

aiternoon he had to entertain her
at Dr. Matthewer's house until it got
dark so that he could get on his way
to Tenn.He took his snacking frosh
Red Burke as driver and even goes
so tar to say they saw a big black
xrizaley on the return beat. . Jim
Owens got off to Knoxville on an-
other one of his dash and dot deals
to see the queen who has him
using no sugar in his tea or coffee.

faints lie “Conrece enoug lon

Compassing
Campuses

erton had a lifed size picture of a
Sunday. .Rev. Mclean red. a note
from .one_of=his_D. .D._babes—In
N.Y. city asking him to returtr
the three tickets he didn't make use
of...

~-Henry MeGeachy.and Gus Mc-
Lean .who has turned from Queens
to Winthrop, played the part of
Santa Claues by bringing the girls

some toys with

to enttain them-

{Continued on Page Sir]

"BY

TOM CAUBLE ~

ON CHANGING THE SUBJECT: i mark

There are a great many times and
a good many situations in which it
is apt indeed to change the suhiect.

This sudden deviation from the
trend of the conversation .is a ia-
vorite device of young ladies, Lt js’
used at such times as the subject:
under diseussion is not to their
liking or when the conversation
veers from the channels along which
they are guiding it with a view to
procuring information or with-some
other goal-set in mind.

For insianee. young ladies arc
always particularly anxious to find
out just which girls were dancing
in. frant of the orchestra at func-
fons dt which they could not be
present.

Just why they feel they must
J Know this_is_notdefinitely known
although certain surmises may be
made. First, -it-is a- possibility that
tront-of-band dancers are a threat
to the established order in that they
are situated thusly for the purpose)
of better baiting other girls’ escorts
at this focal point of interest.

“Again it is possible that girls

might choose «to dance there be-
reause she knew the second. trumpet
or the tenor saxophonist, Recounts
of such incidents are greatly in de-
mand by girls as. conversational
tid-bits.

Changing the subject will also
administer a severe cut in) many
instances. A man proclaiming his
own virtues, or abilities can draw
an abrupt reprimand by this means.
For instance, an undergrad might
be extolling to his girl his: ¢elia-
bility and trustworthiness *and- be
reminded by her of the time he shot
off at intermission with a brunette,

There is also the. non-apt situa-
tion where a delightful tete-a-tete
is in progress and the girl suddenly
interjects such a commonplace re-

apc

Have you scen any good
shows s_lately 2”. heardany good—
bands? ... of read any good books?”
Many regard this as an offense that
shautd be punished by life impris-
oument if indeed capital punish-
weent should not be intlieted.

On the other trand, there are
limes when young men can sec the
advantagés of switching to a new
conversational vein. It might be
that a discussion of his exploits of
bygone days would prove embar-
rassing if continued long, so he im-
mediately introduces a red herring
of enough import to dgtour the
company.

Perhaps some future week end is
brought up for which he already has
two dates. Naturally he docs not
care to have this discussed in the
presence of the lady-of-the-hour--
‘so if he is out of red herring, he
must either (a) fall out of his
chair, (b) simulate insanity, or
(c) set fire to the rug and thereby

Startle the company_enough-ta_pro-_

mote general amnesia.
_Let_us pass on to a discu8sion of

=| certain female remarks, expressions.

and noises thereunto appertaining.
Foruinstance, . a_long-sigh in the-
midst ‘of a conversation tis certain
to .stop said_conversing abruptly
and thus afford a chance for a de-"
tour (or mental squads right). Girls
with military experience can here
employ three.sharp blasts on _a_
whistle which is universally inter-
preted to mean “attention to orders”
or “cease firing.” Probably the best
and smoothest working expedient
to cover all such situations is a sly
wink delivered at point-blank
range. The object of the wink will
in most cases become so enticed as
to immediately forget what he is
talking about and fall to humming
fpanish love-songs.
