Page Two

The Pavidsonian

_’ Founded By the Class of 1915
Member

Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of
Collesiale Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY__—
Charlotte. North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $t.S0 the Collegiate year

MEPREGENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING OY

National Advertising Service, Inc.

College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N,_Y.
Cricsag « Ae roe - 105 ANGELES © S44 FRANCIICcO

Entered ; as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
* North Carolina, under the act of March 3ed. 1879

HARWELL DARBY
JACK COVINGTON

.--EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
-Assistant Editor

Bob Garvey- Le

Bobby Carter ...-.2-------5---- “TAssociate.Editor.,
Dick Cobb . -----.. -- ~Associate Editor
W~. OC. Plaubkett 20000 eee

AL Wian Associate E

Ed) Erwin eon ae ew esen soars »~Managing Editor
Joe Eve ccc. ee ee Managing Editor |
Jimmy Fulcher o- ..-Managing Editor +
Bill Lyman ... -. - --Managing Editor
Henry. Mclatosh, -Managing Editor
Lacy McLean -..-. . .-Sports Editor
David Vosbuegh ...2------ +. een eee es --- -Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Tom Plouk ..2...2....---- oer awewennd Assistant Business Manager
Dick- Kelly 2... wav. Assistant Business Manager.
Ed Scott. eee ee ener ee Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt.---...---- es ueeeee Circulation Manager’
John Crichton. - .--Collection Manager
Baxter Freeze... .es.. 6 eee Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history of college life,
afd is a medium of student and faculty opinion.

—A—telit_weleames—any_ contributions _or_com=__

munications to it, provided such does not contain
derogatory reference to faculty or students, pro-
fanity. obscenity, or destructive  criticism.— All
material must be in the editor's hands by Monday
night of the week that-it is to be printed, and the —
editor reserves the right-to reject part or all of anj*
contribution or communication, -

Honorary_Fraternities— <—

A page and a half of the “Y” Handbook is
devoted to the regulations governing the Hon-
orary Fraternity Council, its members and
their duties. Eleven articles are written in
our constitution concerning this subject, giv-
ing powers to the Honorary Fraternity Coun-
cil and making regulations by which these
fraternities must operate. Why hasn’t some
use beea made of the powers of this council
and why do we have honorary fraternities
that mean nothing more than another pic-
ture in the annual and another two dollars a
semester dues 10 pay?

The power of the Honorary Fraternity
Couneil to disband an honorary fraternity is
omitted {rom our constitution, but this power ’
is written with bold faee letters in the con-
stitution of other colleges and universities.
Long sets of rules governing the right “of ex-
istence of. honoraries are enioreed on other
campuses. We should have some method of
getting rid of the organizations here that are
not worthwhile

Are ali our organizations necessarv? A
safe wager would be that many members of |
certain honorary fraternities wish that they !
had neyer ioined, vet fee! responsible as mem-
bers to keep coming to the meeting and keep
paving their dies since they have already’
become affliated and hate to drop ottt. Oth-
ers scem to elory in having mectings every.
night so that they'l! have some excuse im their
own minds not to study.

Perhaps the fraternities at whith this eci- |

torial is directed can be counted on che hand.
but four or five non- functioning organizations
are a disgrace to the campus. Meéinbers go to
the meetings half-heartedly, and the bidding
of new members is left up to the discretion of
two or three men. Then those men bid are
initiated into’ the organization while old mem-
bers laugh at them behind their backs for being
such suckers.

Such organizations as Phi Beta Kappa and
Sigma Delta Psi (athletic) are genuine awards
for merit and the editorial is not directed to-
ward them. But other fraternities which re-
ceived their charters in order tp further
knowledge in their special fields should either

__do this or not exist.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

need for more power and more use of power
in the honorary fraternity council—regulations
should be lived up to, and if they are not, the
organization has no right to exist. Action
should be taken on the non-functioning fra-
ternities in order that progress might be
gained by the organizations that are anxious
to accomplish things.

The Harvard of the South—

Recently LIFE magazine published a pic-
-torial-article which should be of no small con-
sequence to the educational world; for it
pointed out Harvard as civilization’s most
prominent academic bulwark against the
atrocities of arch paganism. From 1638 to
1941 “the history of Harvard is the cultural
history of the U. S.”; John and Quincy Adams,
‘Oliver Wendell Homles, James Russell Lowell,
Henry Adams, Teddy and Franklin Roosevelt
—-tese, with many hundreds more, have come
irom the bank of the Charles to guide America
across the Mississippi'on her tedious trek to
| the West, into the Western Hemisphere, into

os

the world. And now today another Age is in
the making. it is the fourth year of Harvard's
iourth century: she “must re-examine the pur-
poses that festify het existence, count her re-
sources and consider how she shali serve man

|

in his unknown fusure.”

Columbia, Cornell, Chieago, Yale—all are
making their contributions to the wave of the
future; vet in the shadow of John Harvard

men are attempting to play the role of philo-"

sophie meteorologists and predict the direc-
tion, the essence, of that wave. This is the
privilege of the wise and strong. With neither
pilot nor navigator the. course of history runs
amuck ; Tlarvard is struggling to be that pilot
and fulfill her calling. They have endowment,
a well prepared student body, a cosmopolitan
location, a great faeulty—such notable advan-
tages as these; but they have something more

primary still, something of a more basic nature,
And how could we define,

that is their spirit.
it?) Simply by saying: Harvard University is
dedicated to the pursuit of wisdom, social
progress and spiritual evo'ution. Is there an-
other schoo! in America today so obviously
aiming at that goal? Possibly so—she could
be Davidson |

Vere in Mecklenburg County we. the stu-
dents, the faculty, are comfortably nestled
amongst the remains of a happy past. The
South is part of Davidson, and Davidson is part
oi the South: Our history is not one of bril-
liant leadership, or of brilliant scholarship: but
it is one of men strong in the Faith, earnest in
their purpose. If Chapel Hill, Vanderbilt and
the University of Virginia have been nationally
prominent, we have been stable. There is
something noble and spiendid in the strength
of conservatism; that is, if when a crisis calls
conservatism is visionary enough to rise from
her bed of. self-content and carry Truth into
the council halis of men. All the worth which
one hundred and fifty years of sweat and tears
has taken 10 create is on the brink of shat-
tering into a imillion nihilistic pieces. To pre-
serve that progress, and aclvance it still fur-
ther, is our holy obligaton ; may Davidson rise.
trom her case and rest and aggressively enter
into the holocaustic struggle with the courage.
ofa stable and decprooted people.

Let us make faets significant only in that
they point to cosmic ultimates; let us. estab-
lish a tree and cpinionated press so that we
might learn how men do business in the
spheres of publie convictéon ; let us see beyond

\ ahe horizons of Charfotte and Winston-Salem

a bitter and desoairing world—our world;
fei us recognize debate, open. and frank, as the
surest approach to understanding; in the nanie
of everything that’s true and good and decent,
tet us break out of our shell and prove our-
selves. as

The course that an institution must take

_of such,

to meet victoriously her destiny is intricate’|

and profound. But for a college or university

T One thing is certain, and we find it revealed in

this-tine from LIFE, “New England’s and
‘hence America's greatest names... were list-
ed on the Harvard faculty.” That takes tre-

mendous expenditures of money; though of-|—

all things, to pack a faculty with gigantic
minds is the most imperative task of an edu-
cational institution which seeks influence and
prestige. We must realize that all other budget
items are.secondary to the faculty; and we
must stand ready to sacrifice a building pro-
gram, an expanding athletic program, a stu-
dent loan ptogram to the demands of high-
salaried minds. Then we should sit respect=

~ Without mentioning the name of the. organ-

ization, we refer in particular to one frater-

— nity-which is required to have meetings month-

ly, yet has had only three meetings over.the
period of a school year—two of these meéet-
ings were for the bidding of new members and
the third was for the election of officers for
the coming semester. Such an organization
absolutely should not be in existence on the
campus—it is a mere waste of time!

Is the campus over organized in this sense?
- We. believe ke is far too much so. There is a

1

“fully and willingly at the feet’ of those intel-
‘lects to absorb their wisdom and intelligence.
For_by this means can students attain pro-
spective and proportion, balance and judge-
ment—precious luxuries in a Don Quixote
world. -

‘. America, and all nations and all races, look
to the rising Youth of this’ world for succor
and guidance; for we alone have not been to-
tally ldcerated by prejudice and propaganda.
lt is you and I who-have strength enough and
courage enough to fight for freedom of per-

son and freedom of soul. Our lot is to think new thoughts,
and dream new dreams ; without those thoughts and dreams the|
“world will perish.

Davidson does not have the snobbishness of Harvard, nor

the personal wealth of Harvard, and that is good; but Harvard
has many, many things that we lack and must get.
tiny give Chapel Hill and Tulane all the “progressive” liberal-
ism they want: may those great institutions continue to thrive
in their 6wn way—America necds their contributions. But may
destiny touch us with that peculiar gift that Harvard has, that
gift of gifts, the power which comes from offering broad
minds and rich souls to a starving world. The peoples of this
earth look to'us, and to those like us, and wait for our answer.
May Davidson spring from her past to offer such genius to man-

May des- |-

‘trays the dramatic lives of famous

kind, such is our rendezvous with destiny.

Letters

to. the Editor

FROM DR. BARBOUR:

Just where shall I start to give
you. my impressions of Davidson?
It There are

is rather hard. $0

many angles of approach, and so

many avenues Of impression...
-However, I suppose the thing that
itnpressed me most and will con-
tinue
the point of view of memory and

_from_the point of view of the fu-

ture of the thing to which I have
given my own life, is the fine attitude
of the student body. IT have never
found a more happy response, nor
haye I ever seen any more hopeful
attitude. All in all, the boys seem-
ed very normal, with a keen sense

to stimulate me bSth tron

of appreciation-of the value of things’

that are spiritual, and a hopeful ac-
ceptance of responsibility toward
the furthering of such value in their
own lives, and the willingness to use
their capacities toward the realiza-

tion of such values in our society. ~

One might expect to find ex-
tremists, cither of one sort or an-

other in a denominational school.

No doubt there are some few at Da-

vidson, but they were not very much
in evidence during my visit. If
there were a fairly large praportion
they could not have
mained in the background. It is
very healthy to find such a large

group of young men living together
so intimately over a period of four
years and yet maintaining a bal-
anced point of view about them-
selves, and their place in life, the
world into which they shall move,
and toward the God they accept as
the power behind the world.

The religious program of the Y.
MTCC A. interested me and deserves
commendation. The leadership is in
the hands of men of capacity and
good sense. Quite apparently there
is no desire to stimulate the relig-
ious activities by fantastic pro-
grams or abnormally emotional ap-
peals. . The wisdom of stich an at-
titude is evidenced by the type of
boys who respond to, and ‘partici-
pate in the program.

The happy fellowship at the va-
rious fraternities and boarding
houses, permeates all the life of the
campus.

All of the things .L had__ heard
about Davidson, and all of — the
ideMs and standards I have noted
in her graduates, I found function-
ing in the undergraduate body. I
anv happy that we have in the
South sucha fine, normal, deeply
spiritual, educational institution.

Thursday, May 15, 1941

Yehudi’s Yowls

By Yehudi

Comes the peer of all key-hole
peepers again to earn a few: more
enemies, for the sake of attempting

to entertain a scattered number of-

curious college men who hastily
glance over Yehudi’s meditations
each week in search of their own
names—then, not finding them curse
softly to themselves, or, on the oth-
er hand, finding them, curse loudly
to others. So you see, you can’t
win! For obvious reasons, then,
Yehudi has been guarding zealous-
ly his identity from the ranks of the
cut and uncut alike, particularly
those of the former class as Monroe
Bush: Greasy, Greek Long, Juicy
Jesse Wooten, or long Jim Chap-

man. 2.4

But-to~get—at~the business—at
hand: We can disclose only the
bare facts of the best story of the
week, but a nocturnal possom hunt
on the golf course the other night
was reward&d with only two speci-
mens of this rodent, namely, Frank
Barkér, and Fred Morton, who
ware driven fron’ their den by the
fearful barking of the hounds. Tal-
ly Ho, the foxt For further details
see any of the hunters on the front
steps of Georgia...

A new love of great import has
blossomed forth under our very
noses unnoticed. Taciturn Ed Tay-
lor has been bitten, and badly. The
lucky girl? None other than the
daughter of our new prexy. Fast
work, Ed...

Gabby Sprunt is beaming over a
new addition to his family, an ugly

duckling known as Misshill. It

scons that Gabby won this “fowl

back after giving it to his O. A. O.
for Easter. Now he’s reading up

Long may she continue to spread'on the care and feeding of fowls so

te-{ her influence for good.

Sincerely,
CLIFFORD E. BARBOUR.

ON_DR. SENTELLE:
Dear Tony:

Atthough your paper seems rather
thorough in some fields, you seem
to have omitted a tribute to our re-
tiring dean,*Dr. M. E. Sentelle.

Dr. Sentelle has served tlie col-
lege as dean demanding as much
respect and love of the studerit-ady
as any dean ever did in any college.
Ilis sense of- fairness, although —it
has clamped down pretty severely
on persons violating or wishing to
violate the rules of the school, has
appreciated by the student
bodies over a long period of years.

“Now Mister -er -er, we have a
little rule concerning that sort of
thing and I'm afraid we'll have to
go by that rule,” he might be heard
saying.

The Standing * up of the student

e

been

7

body after the introduction. of Dr.
Sentelle in chapel the day of O. D.
K. tap day showed that he has won
the admiration of the student body
--this same student body (as is
probably true of most students)
tries in every way to buck the rules
laid down by the college, yet they
showed their admiration to the en-
forcer and interpreter of those
tules.

And so we say in closing, hats off

to Dr. Sentelle -his administration
as dean of Davidson College has
ended successfully and he will for-
ever be remembered as long as

there is any memory of Davidson
College.
Thank you

— Film Report Card

‘GLARENCE LEGERTON

L

Thursday and Friday,

“May 15 and 16

Ziegfeld Girl

* * & *

James Stewart,—Judy— Garland,
Hedy. Lamarr, Lana Turner, Tony
Martin, Jackie Cooper. Tan Hunter,
Charles Winninger, wind Edward
Everett Horton. :
[essentially this production_por-

showgirls. It is more gorgeous and
spectacular even than “The Great
Ziegfeld.” With the greatest col-
lection of stars ever gathered to-
gether for one show, this musical
extravaganza is the most claborate
and colorful hit of the season.
! would tike for Bill Tarleton to
be the guest of the theatre for any
show this coming week. bea

: ~ Saturday

-- May 17

Mr. Dynamite

* * e

Lloyd Nolan, Trene Hervey,
Carroll Naish, and Ann Gillis.

[The plot of this picture revolves
around a baseball pitcher who be-
comes involved- with spies and
murder. Lloyd Nolan plays the
pitcher who becomes, unwillingly,
involved in a sabotage plot that de-

J.

from here on things start popping.
His amateur detective_work brings
him in contact with Irene Hervey.
a, Canadian secret-service agent
working for Canada.
Ann Gillis plays a young” girt
baseball fan, and J. Carrol Naish. is
very good as an astrologer.
The late show Saturday night is
“Washington Melodrama.”
Monday and Tuesday
May 19 and 20 :
Meet John Doe

*. ¢ *

clops—into=a=murder=charge and-

the rise of Gary Cooper from

scene.

Gary Cooper, Barbara Stanwyck,
Walter Brennan, Edward Arnold,

The theme of this production is
baseball
humanitarian.

small-time out-of-work

player to a great
ray Cooper turns in his finest per-
formance since “Mr. Deeds Goes to

Town.” while Barbara Stanwyck is,

Doe.”

performances are of. Academy

Award merit, with néver a weak

ward Arnold, as Cooper’s side-kick,
is as great as ever in his character

the perfect ft for the role of the] student at
newspaper girl who invents “John| nouncements were received by the
Both Gary's and Barbara's] brains of most of us and placed in

Regis Toomey and James} nouncements were.
Gleason are outstanding, while Ed-j}a short story long, they were no-

portrayals. : This show is labeled to *May 15," ."May 20,"

as to.kcep it alive until next Easter
when it should prove to be an “ex-
cellent gift again, in additiqgn to
producing a-few eggs meantime. A
ood business man...

The week end activities were light
this week as many are already do-
ing their pre-cxam grinding. There
is some talk, however, ‘of an ‘un-
known party making merry in front
of Chambers the other night...

Commander and‘ no-neck — shot
southward to investigate ~ their
chances of getting into the navy,
said trip being inspired by the usual
lure of a “girl in every port”
These two already being experi-
erfeed in naval maneuvers, their ap-
pointments should come easily ...

This spell of Indian summer is

Regis Toomey, and James Gleason.| THIS ACADEMIC WORLD WE

LIVE IN, OR: THE CALL

Soon after"the present semester
began a number of professors, not
only in this college, but in schools
all over the nation made announce-

OF
Sees opposite attitude of Mr. Aver-

ments that did not. scem drastic
even to the most learned and astute
the time. _ These - an-

cold storage until a week or two
ago. No doubt, many of you are
‘wondering just what these an-
Well, to make

tices that pertained to the writing
of_a_term paper, research paper, or
what-have-you. To most of us,
or “the last

be an outstanding hit of the year,| class before exams” seemed like an
having been directed by that direc-| impossibly long time in which to

tor of masterpieces, Frank Capra.

Wednesday, ‘
May 21
Play Girl

se *

1

This sparkling comedy features
Kay Francis as a sophisticated gold-
digzer=who ttsedpretty—Mildred
Coles as a decoy to catch million-
aires. Nigel Bruce, James Ellison, | *
and_George P..Huntley.. Mildred
falls in love with Ellison, however,
spoils Kay's plans, and rugs out on
the scheme. Nigel Bruce is the out-
standing comedian of the produc-
tion.--—

Coming next week: Great Amer-
ican Broadcast, with—Alice Faye,
Jack Oakie, and John Payne, and
That Hamilton Woman, with Vivien
Leigh, Laurence Olivier, and Sara
Allgood.

' [very term papers.

4crastinated. out.

write this thing. But today, look
around you: you see faces haggard
with worry; worry caused by these
We have had
three months to write them and yet
we have procrastinated and procras-
tinated until we're just about pro-
Eebruary— faded

undoing many of the locks formed
early in the spring, several being
broken this week end. Desecration
being the better part of valour, the
names are withheld until further
confirmation is received, but you
new members of the great class of
“unlocked” would do well to either
.re-confirm those connections or
grab q substitute or your sorry
plight will be revealed. You know
who I mean, too!

With graduation approaching, the
old middle aisle long dreamed of by
so many is beginning to look like a
reality. Some of these starry eyed
lads being Bob Basley, Jay Bolin,
and Rots McElwee. There are also
a few others who are rather fear-
-ful-eyed—rather—than-.-starry-eyed
over the same prospect, one of them
to be found, bent and.broken, on
the first floor of Georgia. Guess
who? ...

Young R. L. Brigtson has averaged
four out of the last five nights in
Mooresville, being accompanied on
several of these visits by Ned Pol-
lock.” Yehudi has been unable to as-
certain the motive of these journeys,
but_thought the predominanée of
roll collars in the Avon grilt was
too much to overlook ... The car-
nival in Mooresville drew two car-
loads, of adventurous souls last
Tuesday, but the motorcade re-
turned sadly mourning the good old
days when a Mooresville carnival
meant a girl in the goldfish bowl.
Them days are gone forever...

By the way, get Carolyn the co-ed
to sing you her song about Lil, the
gaLof_tremendous beauty, sometime.
Quite catchy ...

The abnormal class went to Mor-
ganton this week.to interview the
nuts, or vice versa.. Mason Wallace
had no end of trouble leaving, we
understand; since his usual love-sick
look .was very difficult to distinguish
from very similar looks to be seen

on all sides on the assorted morons.

imbeciles, and general nuts... One
of the inmates when asked by Shel-
ton why he was here,” answered
brightly that he was here because
he wasn’t all there, which makes
much more sense than this column.
so we'll sign off for another week's
va¢ation, To’ close, here's a chal-
lenge, WHO'S YEHUDI? To the
first‘ten readers who guess correctly
will go prizes of wide-mouthed,
non-splatte? spittoons, only one to
a customer. This contest closes
midnight, Thursday, May 15, so get
your entries in.

Down

Pat.

BY

PAT RUDOLPH

mirable fellow is

actually taking
the matter seriously, which is just.

age_ Student. Within two weeks,
let us say, he has gone into his sub-
ject as deeply as our library permits
and. has turned out a huge manu-
script which he later boils down to
about forty typewritten pages. He

now places the weighty object7in—

the bottom of his trunk, ties a/blue
ribbon around it, puts in some extra
mothballs, and ‘whistles merrily off.
to a double feature. His work is
done—done two and, ““one- half
months ahead of time.” He can af-
ford to give the arts his patronage.

A second type of paperer is the
“Little-by-little,” “slow-but-sure”
student.
power is the answer to a professor’s

This walking bit of will |

dream. He spends an hour in the.

library every day. (This inctudes
Saturday). In most cases, this is as
much as his budget will allow, for

this type usually has. worked out a-

scientific budget of his time. Slow-
ly but surely, he works. his little
creation up into.a very satisfactory
paper. This might also be
the “polite gentleman”

into Marchi March faded into

Spring Recess; Spring Re Recess faded
into. Spring—“Ay, ‘there's the rub.”
We asked ourselves if those beau-
tiful sunny aftecnoons were meant
to be spent in drudgery. No, we
replied, and tudned’ over on our
stomachs to get a little more sun.

Seriously, though ,there are three
general types of ‘term paperers.”
First, we have the superman. He
departs for! the library on the
morning of the first day after the
announcement is made.-

This ad-

calied ©
method.

There is nd busile, no ‘hustle. “We
see our ‘friend disappear into the
bowels df the library each — day.
where after one pour of good-—stift
concentration, his day's work is.
done. If you can stick ‘to your
schedule, why not try this method
on your next paper? Well. why not?

‘Lastly, we come to Mr. Average
Student. M.A. S. is our little pro-
crastinator. From the time that the

‘term paper is announced until one

|

or two weeks before it is due—it.

never enters his mind. Then. early

(Continued on Poge Six}————~—
