Tom Pionk. wrens AGSiStant Business Manager
“DickKetty: . vreAsaistant Business Manager
Ed Scott weeee esse 2e-Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt.. seseserenes-- Circulation Manager
John Crichton =f. «...-Collection Manager
~ Baxter F Subscription Manager~

we

THE

DAVIDSONIA

N '

Thurs., Feb. 13, 1941

The Wavidsonian —

ad

|
|

Founded By the Class of 1915

Ni chited , ‘
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of :

Colleriale Digest |
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” |

Printed by the
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
~ Charlotte. North Carolina ,

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

a

REPRESENTED POR NATIONAL ADVERTIONNG BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.

College Publishers Representasive
420 MADISON AVE. New Yorn, N.Y
Cureaco » Binsrow . Los ANGELES = SUS FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, |
North Carobima. under the act of March 3rd, 1879 |

ANDY DALE.
JACK COVINGTON...

yee ooo

Editor
Fditor
Editor ~
Eduor

Paul Bumberger
Tom Caubte ~~
Joesales—

Ed Watson.

Lawson Withers. .-Assoctage Editor
Dick Cobs..- ...Managing Editor
Harwell Darby wen e eee cee wee. sereeee-Managing Edrtor
Bob Garvey... eee eee or 7 ... Managing Editor 7
WoC. Wankert a eee -Managing Ed:toe
Al Winne..l.e. 2. .-Managing Editor
Bob Carter ..... : -Sports Editoe
David-Vosburgh ... -Movie Editor

Seaff Photographer

2

Hilly Barker... ..2-

® BUSINESS STAFF..

This paper is the official history,-of college fife,
and is a medium ot. student and faculty opinion.
As slich it welcomes any. contributions or com-
mumications-to it, provided such does not contain-
derogatory reierence to factlw: or students pro-
fanity. obscenity, or destruttive criticism. All
material must be in the editor’s hands. by Monday —
night of the week that itg1s_to_be printed, and the
editor reserves the right to reject part or, all of any
contribution or cofnmunication.

Student Relations

Péginning wais week a series of articles, two a weck,
. 7 . : * . -
written by a fraternity and a non-fraternity man

. : {
have a tendency to conform, Stated more |
sinrply, it is just intolerance.

Yor instanee, i: a man is an innocent intro-
vert with a good. healthy reserve about his
personality, he had better at least fake a

‘Hello. ole man. How va gettin’ along 2.’ at-

titudé if he hopes t& have many friends.
(Please don't confuse this wid real friendli-
ness. Pm alt for that.) |

My ‘point is. in other words. that the ira-
lernities Tay too much stress -on manners.
Again I'm airaid that you'll get me wrong. Lt
is almost painfully truistic that the more man-
nerly a man can be -we might even say the
more “glaniér bow” tricks he can Jearn, the |
better oft he is, And carnations to the fraterni-
lics fof teaching men manners.

criteria tor personal judgment? It is this lack

about
fut why put manners first among the

Letters_to

By DAVID VOSBURGH

(a) Changed “Major” Requirements’
Dear jAndy.

You know, Andy. that sometimes
the faculty does things that we.

j the students, don. particularly like

or understand, ‘and naturaily we
make our dislikes known, The facul-
ty is usually quite considerate of our
views and usually tries to see things
our way, But sometimes they do
things that affect only a few of the
students, and thus, nothing is done
it.

I guess by now you've eathered
that fas well as several othes mem-
hers of my class, fecl that we've

of a sense of values that produces fops, that
lists many an innocent man because he has un
wittingly broken some Daviiison rule ot ¢4i-

quette, that make bat-brained Joc College out |
of a bat-brained freshman, that (dare 1 sug- ;

been done a slight injustice. You,
seu, We registered and=selected our!
courses in 39, understanding that:

t

ous lest any but his best. friends suspect that

The has an interest in matters intellectual.
>

trepeant thatrthis attinrde ts -by -re -meass

jected with it. But | believe that fraternity

its existence, than non-fraternity men. And
whatever could be done to correct these mis-
takes would be an effort to make a more
H6mogenous, more democratic student body.

fo ~esigned) : Senior Non-Eraternity Man,
The Fraternity Angle

If you as a person not associated with Da-
vidson were to approach any Davidson student

and ask him-to classify the student body. into
two groups. what.would be his answer? He

are both gentlemen and scholars, while in the
other are simply gentlemen. Flis most obvi-
ous answer, howevar, would be the traternity

-and-non- fraternity -groups.— Immediately the

outsider begins to wonder, what is so difier-

in a group of non-fraternity men, or vice-
Versa.

Certainly one man is no better than another’
and especially is this true at Davidson, a col-
lege noted for its democracy. These criteri-
ons could not by any means be based on a
person's looks, ability, personality, or, though
to some extent, money. I venture to say that
not one man in ten thousand could pick out
a non-fraternity man from a group of fratern-
ity menu at first glance. . There must be a
subtler difference somewhere, however, and
that difference is in organization.

will appear in this paper. discussing various phases |
of the relations between the two groups at Davidson.
Too fong vasiots groups on the campus, such as
ODK. the paper. and other interested parties spent
honrs discussing the situation (if such there be)-
without attemptime to better it (if such is deeded).
We believe that public statements, made by mem-
bers of both groups, will go a long way towards ¢lear-.
ing up, any misunderstanding which may be now
present, sinee the first and primary difficulty in any
“situation is to tpersuade aff concerned to face the
facts openty. Therefore this series -is iwtended to
foster better fraternity-non-traternity relations on
Davidson's campus and among her student bodv in
order that the college itself may be bettered by such.
~ Any interested person will he considered as a pos-
sible writer in some future’week if he will contact the
editor, and. as. always, communications ‘will be wel.
comed, provided they are.not anonymaus. Those per--
sons who have written or may write ‘such articles are
not limited in any way ‘as to their statements, except |
as the stated policy of the paper, may do. Likewise
their subject or subjects, scope, and length (within
reason) are not restricted, |

The ‘series, it is hoped will promote a far ‘better
attitude within cach group toward the other, hy va
more nuutual understanding of the problems and dit-
ficulties of «he other.

The editors in no manner comqiut themselves to ant
‘view or conviction of any writer or writers who have
been or may .be the author of articles printed here.
Neither shall any opinion expressed be taken as that of
any, fraternity, society, organization. or group, unless

—sheclfieally so stated under such writing, since the
Statements made are personal to the writers, whose
nantes are’ witnheld in order-that personalities may
not become involved.--THE EDITOR.

The Non-Fraternity Side

There are several different angles«from
which the question, of fraternities on our
campus may he considered Cobviously).

{~ There is no neva of diminishing their value.
{tis easy enoughto see the need of fraternities

here and to. see the valuable function they
perform socially.

‘And the question of whether the “principle
of the thing” is demoeratic is hardly a practi-
cal angle. In the first place we would have to

_ prove that democracy is what we want,! and

——then—always—act-as_if we believed in it.

In
the second place whether or not the idea is
democratic, we have our fraternities. The im-
portant question is héw they. can make for a
better Davidson.

Then there is the issue of politics, always to
be mentioned in whispered tones. Frankly I
know so little of what goes on among fraterni-
ties in a political way to be able to dismiss this.
It just seems to me that everybody has more
fun at election time every spring. Even we
non-fraternity men can occasionally vent our
spleens when we feel that something didn’t go
as we would like it.

. Now .to get to some criticism of the fra-
ternities and their members. My own principle
objection is hard to express. Perhaps there is
nothing to it. But in a sentence it is this; that
the fraternities set the pace for th€ empty con-
venionality and dull normality to which we all

The traternity men have lived together,
plaved together, risen and fallen together, and,
when the occasion arises, work as a unit. they
are prepared. Not only are they organized
here ty nine distinct pasts, but they are organi-
zed as aawhole, Life within a fraternity, from
Alpha Beta to Psi Omega, sedms to give men
a similarity of outlook ; they feet basically the
same on any subject. They have had an ex-
tensive opportunity to learn the value of co-
operation, and thus they are better able to
work ‘toward a common godl than.the non:
Traternity men.

__We now sce that the fraternity men area

| group ‘because they're organized, but what of

the non-fraternity men? That's, easy, you
say, he’s in that group because he’s not a
member of a fraternity. Perhaps you say this
a little deprecatingly, but why should. you?
-Lill_Jones may_in_every_way be one of_the
poorest men on dhe campus, while Johnny
Smith makes good grades, is a fine intermural
Fman, and seemingly has every qualification of
a good fraternity man. Yet Bill may bea
member of the best fraternity while Johnny
has not even received a single bid. There
‘isn’ta man living who can answer this enigma
—-Jones’ father may have been a Delta Tau,
while Smith made the no matter how justi-
fiable error of blacking a Delta Tau's eye the
first day-of school. mo

These examples sound a little far-fetched,
and certainly they are extreme cases; but it
all goes to show that there is no individual
difference in the two types. The difference is
entirely a product of environment. The fra-
ternity, man -is surrounded by‘ a congenial
group of men who act and think alike, while
the non-fraternity student is solely dependent
oupon himself. Perhaps this makes them more
independent and personally resourceful, I
don’t know, yet it is certain that the main
thing they miss in college is the fellowship
and friendship that a fraternity offers.

Because he lacks these things, a non-fra-

ternity man will too often develop a needless
complex. Eriendship ‘isn’t thrown into his
lap from the first day at Davidson—he has to
go out of his way and work hard at the job
of making close friends* Perhaps he doesn't
go to the dances for just these same reasons—
feeling that the fraternity council is in charge
and he hasn't the slightest connection: with
them. He'd be. the last man to rise and ex-
press his opinions in an open meeting, simply
-because he has to stand alone without a_fra-.
ternity-to back him up. 4

All-of these things are wrong and are the
result of mental misconceptions by the non-
fraternity man. The dances are for all of us;
all we need to be just as close friends as if
fraternitles never existed is a chance; and
any fraternity man will listen to non-fraternity
Opinions—they’re probably sounder than his
own. Davidson offers the same to all her stu-
dents ; and though a fraternity facilitates the
Social advantages, ‘they are available to all.
We're not fraternity and non-fraternity men,
were members of Davidson College. Let’s
think of it that way. ”

’ (Signed) : Fraternity Senior.

men are more to tamectorts prevalence; -for-| ences for example: chemistry..thar

gest that, this is an evil?y fiake amar cantiz yo —eredit-teurs to obtain a major.

We also understood that the cours-
‘
tes we took our freshman year would

/ not help us obtain this major. Thus, -
° t Wt8——Sonie ofus, planning tm take -prevrthatcone of-the interetass—baseball
confined to the fraternity man. We are all in- sined or other similar work, realiz- teams “might challenge Charlotte

ted that we should take more sci

was required for a major, thus we

took an extra science course our
| freshman year, .

Rut ducing the middle of last

‘ vear. as you undoubtedly remember

| the faculty changed the major re-

-bied faculty Are becoming enthus-
‘jastic over the prospects.

we would be required to have only!

+ quirements from 16 to 24 hours, tak-

ing effect with our class. [ think by.
you understand that we will
have tO take one tore ‘year of
science than we had really expected.

now

the Editor -

for 1941-42, may continue. to
root for, and support a “hard-luck”
basketball team. but begin to brag
about what Yhe Wildcats will be
doing on the gridiron next year.
Even members of the usually digni-

we

Strangely to: say, intercollegiate
sports are comparatively new to the
Davidson student For “the first
athletic encounter with another
school was .a football “tussel” in
1898 with de University, of North
Carolina in which the wearers of
the enimson and black were defeat-
edb to 0,

Rut for several years before that !
date, students had ‘been seeking

pernyssion from the faculty for in.
tercollegiate competition in some-
thing more vieorous Yhan debating.
The faculty's first refusal came in
1871 when a petition was declined

+} young men,” the refusal being bas-
Led_on-the. ground that it Jinvolved |

a departure fcomr the path of duty
lies -betore students

which at a
college.”
The students. however. in’ the

long run received their wishes, and
in 1900 the first outside coach was

provided. That year the enthusiasm
ran riot whpp the newly organized
cléven won seven of the eight sche-
duled games... one of these against
Georgia Tech, 38 to 6.

-might.reply that_in ane class are the men wha). oalyeas_thatoweieally awon't | Two years...later intercollegiate | marle. ; .
need. Science, unless one really likes | baseball was permitted yi
it, is a course that casily becomes] ball following in 1908. Th
boresome, as you should well know. | gym was provided ‘by tt

basket-

[oe

mos
ims A

new
Alumni

ent about a fraternity man as to set him apart -need-or wants don't-you think?

It's tough to have to take a yearyin 1917-to take caré of the growing
more of science than you really tinterest in the latter sport. Thus,
Lihe college to think that if offered

DAY’S
DIARY

BY

BILL LEMMON

Rothschild Kelly,
known as Iqes or Dicky, whipped
over -to: St. Mary's from the- hill
Sat. to enter upon diplomatic nego-
tiations for a substantial monetary
stm from his kid sister. This char-
acter did a great deal of “gooning”
on. all nen holding dates. which he
contacted. . Joe Liles and Easy
Eve slipped in Chapel Hill) with
those everlasting grins on for the
week-end... One twentieth of the
D. C. student body were to be
found at the greater iniversity this
past Sat.
buddie Hite fotlowed Mackie to the
v1 | Pr

H. Sprunt left Winston in. bad
shape Sun. The cops got him for
not giving due respéct and order
to the lights, signs, anid speed laws.

Beester Burwell appeared to
have himself in a building with no
corners as he could not find a
place to hang has hat in the ATO
house. Skinny Arnold and
Amigo Lauch tried some of Ken-
neth Robert’s receipts over in the

city... Frank Niven, navigator of |:

the heavenly blue, got the passeny-
ers lost in his home twn of Albe-
Hoc McCall sot, on the

ball this Sat. but due to unexpect- |

ed complications was forced to re-
tire from the field. -

The Goldshoro goddes$ after mar-
rying off her sister last week-end,
flushing (George) Honey Dew, at

otherwise,a

time distinguishing Scott from
Hit! Cooper who was at W. CG...
Bert—Carr,Rop_ Rogers, a'nd _ big
Jim Werr got caught in the rush
at the door of the dance at W.C.
Sat. and did not arrive here until the
wee hours... of Monday a.m. .
Cheerful Charlie, (the cheerlead-
er) Allcott broke the headlines as
McDuftie’s protegee of the new-
est sensation, the box Step... Even
though Frank Niven was first on
the draw in G'boro Rocky Shore
beat him to the trigger by having

Talk is that Good, the Mooresville queen, Sara Tay-

lor, down at the old homestead.
(Keep trying Frank; take notice,
Ruthie). Ansley pulled a tate
on Garvey by taking the latter's
week-end date to the Salem dance.

The Phi Delts shot down to At-
lanta on a deputation to Tech with
Lumbering Lawson Hayes at the
drivers post. Joe Flowers got on
the bug .and ended up the deal in
Columbus. . . Bone Reinhardt and
G. Grantham are in contempt of
the law for violation of the Lind-
bergh law. Shaw Smith took
up his post as magician in the
SAE house at-the hill.

Snatz McReynolds says that his
personality rating -took a decided
dealine at the Sat.. format when
one of the better known Pi Kapps
whipped him off the chair. .. Our
pretty secretary in the adm. of-

Uve written only about the ef-
fect that this change: in the Major

requirements has had on students |-

planning to major in science, but
Vor sure that it has also affected
*boys planning to major in. other
fields. * .
Do you think the faculty would
consider this problem? ['d like -to
talk about it) sometime soon vand
then discuss it with several mem-
bers of the faculty. |
Sincerely,
A Sophomore Friend.
(b) Athletic Facilities
Dear Editor: .
With excellent ceports being |
cheard from many sources as to the

a well-counded, three-fold program.
spititual, mental, and physical.

Hut today, How about the third
“fold” of our college program? Can
it be effectively offered and pur-
sued with-the equipment we have at i
present? Can we expect to have a
winning basketball team with such
a place for it to practice in? ,

(It seems that the present recon-
struction program of the college vis
making the mental side of the-en-
tire program far excel the physical.
However, we must be satisfied, at
present, with a new library* and
science building, but can’t some of
the Alithni give us a NEW GYM?
They did back in 19171 ft

potential ability of our football team —'43.
Film R t. Ca
By DAVID VOSBURGH
FILM REPORT CARD | Monday and Tuesday
ete ; Feb. 17 & 18
Thursday, February 13th. ae
a ey 7 “So Ends Our Night": Fredric

“Road Show": Adolphe Menjou,
Carol Landis and John Hubbard. —

This is the story of a love affair
that develops on the road as a
group of show people: go on the
foal and Wave a grtar” time” The
show moves from, town to town
and all the time a great love comes
up between. the two. stars,
has a great time as she gives her
love to the different members of
the troupe. It is a show that moves
very fast and has an unusual a-
mount of comedy. 4

Friday and Saturday
Feb. 14 & 15

e¢

“Buck Private”: [ was unable to
find out anvthing about this show.
lt does deal with the life ofta pri-
vate in the ariny. ~

Late Show Saturday

“Six Lessons from Madame La.
zonga™: Lupe Velez, Helen Parrish
and Charles Lang. _.

This is the movie about the life
South of the Border and has alt
the latest dance steps and love af-

clubs until Leon Errol ties up With

her

free of charge,
Daily Bruin:

They all purstied the spouse
She severed their backbone a
Have you ever in the entire

ny * *

Stories of intellectual and scholastic

all, to public scrutiny.

Carol ;-

fairs of the great Lupe Velez. Sheya very good show and has a good
has agreat job in one of-the night | plot.

her and falls madly in love with} borough to be my guest for any

THIS COLLEGIAT

In case you're having trouble getting responses to your petitions to
Fred Waring, ct al, requesting original college songs, we offer herewith
the lyrics for a little number developed in UCLA's

ee ‘

(Can be sung to the tune of “Three Blind Mice.”)
* Three rodents with defective vision.
Three rodents with defective vision.
“Note the mainer-in which they flee.
‘ Note the manner .in which they flee.

It has been’trawtional at Notre. Dante, says The Scholastic, to confine

English department and their followers.
should be brought out of their gymnasiums and exposed, sweat-shirts and

March, Margaret Sullivan, Frances
Dee and Glenn Ford.

Two thrilling romances in.a hich
story of a high adventure. The story
came from the novel “Flotsam” and

the same time, sent a note down|fices bas pulled a Bo Arnold on

Foes ‘totprove~that—no -power on
earth can divide and gule true love.
Margaret Sullivan and Glenn Ford
armored only with their love, win
their hearts victory, The movie, witl
rank as one of the best for this
year and is built around the love
aitairs of these great actors.
Wednesday, February 19th.

ee
&

“Laddie": Tim Holt, Virginia
| Gilmore and Joan Carroll.

Phis is. the third straight time
Gene Porter's ‘popular story “has
been brought “o the sereen, but
even so it is so carefully and so-
sincerely done that it is worth-see-
ing again. Tim Holt plays with
dignity and verity, the young farm-
er who-falls for the unhappy Eng-
lish. girl. Joan Carroll is a. new but
radorabic sister and Virginia Gilmore
is the girl of Laddie’s choice. It is

| would like for Tommy Yar-

show next week.

TE WORLD

of. an agriculturist.
ppendages with a kitchen utensil. {
span of your existence es

Observed such an unusual phenomenon as
Three rodents with defective vision?

+ +

aberration to the members of the
However, the phy-ed boys

In a recent exam @ prof_asked: “Name. two ancient sports.”
To his astonishment one lad, who like Gene Tunney had a .fond-
ness for Shakespeare, answered:_“Anthony and Cleopatra.”

4

that she is once more open for
dates; Honey then whipped to G’-
bero to worship at her shrife. . .
The floor committee at Carolina had

McElwee, Taylor, ctce., by zipping
down to’W. Forest the ensuing
w rek-end to lead the figure to the
trembling trumpets of Teagarten, ...

Compassing—

~ Campuses

BY

TOM CAUBLE

ON THE GRAPE-VINE SYSTEM

CONNECTING ALI. GIRLS’

. SCHOOLS:

There is a yrape-vine system of
communication connecting all girls’
schools that is vastly superior to
any of those in effect during «Civil
War espionage or even the one
popularized by-the Ubangis in Afri-
ca. *

Everywhere the word is flashed
on—by heliograph-— high-powered
car, ships at sea, giant streamliners,
and by every expedient for rapid
-transit-at-the command-of-the-G_S.
Postal Service.

“This transfer of dope if often as
dramatic ag was the pony express
with worried collegians the counter-
parts, of the marauding | Indians
(who incidentally were seldom able
to intercept ‘the daring post rid-
ers). ‘
The possibilities ot mental -tele-
pathy are less often scoffed at by
undergrads who have seen and
shuddered in awe at the rapidity
with which the information
shunted along from school to school
rwhere it is distributed in late ses-
sions just where the lads would
least likeituddp. .
There is much ‘discussion among
the boys as to just’ what informa-
tion is passed on—that is, what as a
rule is regarded as essential
formation?

It is bélieved that the informa-

Lis

in-

that is too broad for accurate an-
alysis. Probably it can best be
described as choice - morsels and
tidbits arising from week-end soc-
ializing.

This seems to include harmless|
little items such as who was wear.
ing what, who was looking good,

etc, Also popular are the various

little foibles and weaknesses noted
in various lads during the. week-
end—how the after-dance activities

_|seemed to be shaping up, who had

the late-dates’'and how many, and
a multitude of other related inci-
dents.

Ov dance week-ends the gal is
also! apt indéed to become very
chunimy with the two or three oth-
er young ladies that tht fates “have
cast into her bed. As these condi-
tions are not conducive to sleep,
the time is spent in swapping gos-
sip which immediately flashes out
along the grape-vine.

The speed with which the, grape-
vine functions has given ‘rise to
many conjectures. Some believe car-

42— TF

tion is generally social‘in scope, but |

rier pigeons are .utilized while the
possibility of pyrotechnic signals
is championed by others. .

Whatever the means by which
the grape-vine functions, these in-
visible tom-toms are as sure and as
inevitable as the suns The. wide
gnge across which the informa-
tion is distributed and the thor.
oughness of this operation gives
credence to the idea that a sort
of central clearing house exists.
Certainly the system of communi-
cations utilized is no ‘haphazard ar-
rangement for it is as sure as the
telegraph—
thére is a weakness in the
whole system, it Might be said to
lic in its notable lack of accuracy:
but this is due no doubt ‘to the
personne? and is not the fault of
the mechanics of the system. ~~

The unsuspecting sophomore is
apt to be astounded by the daring
of some -of his escapades, flirta-
tions, and infidelities, or rather by
the accounts of them which he is
later to hear in his travels. He both
wonders and shudders at some of
the feats attributed to. him and,
having no very potent command of
the principles of high-powered ex-
planation, he is often permanently
in the dog-house with his lady-love.

Some‘of the more glib collegians,
on,the other hand, are able to hold
their own against the system for
a time by the exercise of great
ofatorical gifts at the shrines of
the ladies offended by the informa-
tion, but the odds are greatly a-
gainst any continued successes a-
tong this line and he can be as-
sured that the invisible menace will
get him in the end.

must take out. insurance . against *
public liability for property dam-
age and. personal injury effective
July t. 7

After along controversy on con-
tinuance “of sororities at the Uni-
versity of Rochester, second-term
freshman rushing has been adopted.

ne ed

———————_____

Prof. R. B. Harvey of the Uni-
versity of Minnesota is using ultra-
violet rays for finding and eliminat-
ing bacterial ring rot in potatoes.

— re _
John 1. Collyer, president of B-
F. Goodrich company, has been

J.clected._to the Cornell university |

board of trustees.

The: University of Minnesota
heating plant uses 30,000 tons of
coal a year.
