Page Two

e

_Founded By the Class of 1915
Membes

Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collesiate Disest

Published Weekly “For-a Better Davidson” |

——-- @&—
L Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES |
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING OY

 eNational Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MAOISON AVE. New York. N.Y.

Cwicado + BOSTON + LOS ANGELES - SAM Faancisco o

Entcred as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

wee eeeee EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
-BUSINESS MANAGER

HARWELL DARBY
JOHN CRICHTON..

EDITORIAL STAFF

Bobby Carter... wa ceenecnee ae-eseeAssistant Editor

~The Dabidsonian 4

| With
The Staff

By JOE EVE

if chance or an anonymous donor should pre-
sent Davidson with a monument to “The Un-
known Davidsonian"—meaning the average
student at this center of persons of highly
trained intellect—it would, or at least might,
prove very interesting to make a study of those

-characteristics which have been so prevalent

here as to be existent in the “perfect average.”
A monument would hardly mention the size of
its honorec, nor would the color of his eyes or
the coiffure of his curls be of great import-
ance.

This Mr. Everyday would be a.C plus stu-
dent. (This average would, of course, be taken
aiter the customary exits in’ December.) He
would doubtless be working toward a B. S.
HH. according to the records the least attractive
degree for one of outstanding intelligence. He
would study, or sit with his texts, nightly dur-
ing his freshman year. His sophomore year,
he would aliow himself a few entire nights off,
but would burn midnight ot! preparing for
english reviews. His junior year, he would
seldom study, but aight spend frenzied hours
on Accounting prablems.. Ilis senior year, his

W.-C. Munkett. --Associate Editor
Al Wine... .. - Associate Editor
Kd Kewinl.3. . ~Managing Editor
Joe Kvelw. ee -Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher --Managing Editor |
Bi Lyman. --Managing Editor
Henry Melntosh.. ~-Managing Editor
AACA ICL Re meenene Sports_Editor,
Clarence Legerton. i... 2-2. 2 e eee eee e eee .--Movie Editor

Billy Barker .. taf, Photographer

Ce

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager

‘

Calhoun Ilipp....

Peter Youne....c ce. ce cece ce eee er ee een cee. Advertising Manager
Joe Martin. --Circulation Manager
Buck MeNeely. .-Circulation Manager

—Lyey_ Stugrt ----Collections Manager

This paper is the official history of college life,
and is a medium of student and faculty opinion
As such it “welcomes any contributions or com
munications to it, provided such does not contain
derogatory reference to faculty or students, pro-
fanity— obscenity, or destructive criticism. All
material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday
night of the week that it is to be printed, and the

editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any _
contribution or communication,

HOMECOMING

_ Davidson College marks another era in her
history as Momecoming brings alumni back
to the new Davidson. the new buildings which
tise loitily over books and test-tnbes. Why
come back-to Davidson? The class of twenty-
nine has long left the campus—new {aces contd
never replace the old jolly crowd that was in
that class of twenty nine. Even new duildings |
have overshadowed the old. Martin Chemieal
Tabaratory is set ofi by the new briek of Grey
Alemorial Library.
~ There's sothing of the Davidson that Finew
lef there at all. —_

Gut wait a minutel That face looks familiar. |
“I say there, son, you're not by any chanee a
Howard? Why [ knew your brother better.

-of-discussion.

study would be so negligibte as to be unworthy

Of still greater importance would be this
Davidsonian’s attitude toward life in general.
He would talk in his home town of the won-
ders of the Davidson girit. At school, he
would rave with equal fervor over the lack of
the’same element. Footballs would bring forth
lusty yells—and quite occasionally (and always
when his date didn’t come) heavould be so for-
tunate as to catch a sample of cough drops
during the half. Tle would have fearful respect
for the local B. MO. C., but would deny pos-
session of same at every half-opportunity.

This would be the man who goes out for
many extra-curricular activities during his
first two years. He would have a little pull
here and there and would land a working job
on one staff his junior year. He would never
in his saver moments suppose that he would
become an editor or manager his senior year,
hout- his junior year he would day-
dream of receiving a surprise—nay, a shock,
and be elected to this coveted position. But
that goesn't happen to an average boy. The
happy part for him is that ke forgets his. de-
feat and comes up smiling for chapel the next
morning.
_The so-called wild-hares would be few and
far between for this man, [ach ‘year, he’
would go-on a trip— to a girls’ sehool-danice, to
an out of town game, or on a band trip. He
would come back with giowing tales. told with
undue enthusiasm to aice any possible shadow
of the trip's little disappointments. All aver-

“

Thursday and Friday, Oct. 16, 17
WILD GEESE CALLING

ee tT,

Henry Fonda, Joan Bennett, War-
ren William, Ona Munson, and Bar-
ton MacLane. :

Although this picture cannot be
very highly recommended for its
story, the-cast-pulls it far out of the
mediocre ranks. Henry Fonda, as
a boy with an overdose of wander-
lust, does his best to make this rath-
er slow-moving story a hit. He is

| very ably—assisted—by ~glamorous)—— we RNATIONAL LADY

Joan Bennett and suave Warren
William. ;

Henry plays a likeable but naive
lumberjack with a desire to be on
the move. This desire. is encour-
aged by the cternal flight of the
wild geese. In Seattle he meets
Blackie, a disreputable character
played by Warren William. Here
he _also meets and _marrics Sally,

Cinema

Comments

By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Thursday, October 16, 1941

—The Filth-Columnist—

By 2???

ee
. rooting trees or Jifting cars. , .
| Since ye olde filth columnist was) The Chattanooga  Choo-Choo’
pone of those limbers who stayed on brought back wild tales of a-super
the campus over the week-end, most Week-end. Davidson was well rep- :
of this week's dope is heresay. and] pocented in the Dynamo of Dixie
there are a few items whose aU-) Ynot with the football team, the -
thenticity js doubtful. However a] i yagers, Geo. Mitchell, Jim Howell,
few rare tiMbits have filtered in.- | \ine Morris, Waller Wooten, Ralph
The juiciest ‘bit. is one which is} Williams, Jim “as am I" Owens, and
rather delicate. Two of our most} countless others carrying the scarlet
Levant and Ameche are tops in}recent old-grads are the principal! and black into the Tennessee hills,
their roles, but Mary steals the] characters, having zipped over to] only to return black and biue after:
show. This is one of the brecziest| Charlotte the other P. M. to date] a slow, disappointing game. Things
and most entertaining features to| two “Misses,” as was thought, only| popped that night, however, as Vos.
be screened in the last few months,|to find that neither of the aforsaid| burg discovered a diamond in the
lasses had any claim to the title. It] rough in the person of a blond
seems that when johnny old grads! bombshell on 9th street, the center
are called back in official capacities| of the city's aristocracy. Baxter
‘they have the opportunity to do all] Freeze fell head over heels for a
of those things they wanted to do Hedy Lamarr’ish creature, consid-
when here.. Cars, ete. Must be ering her for a dance date soon.
wonderful. ___ ___| He was observed frantically put-
Tush notes are rolling in ike the| time a call thra To Chattanooga
tides; among the victims are Mor-| Monday nite ... Dick O’Hair skip-
ton Church, Arch Taylor, and Butch| ped the dance to roam Lookout
George Brent, NonasMassey, Basil| Pharr. We pity the senior whose Mountain with his date, hoping to
Rathbone, and Gene Lockhart. date was purloined by some sleck| get lost, but the damsel was 4 native
This production is essentially an] Deke from Carolina... And speak-| and. guided him successfully to the
with van international] ing of flushes, let us remind you to] station in time for the train— worse
Nona Massey has the} buy your set ticket now, if you luck |
role of a woman with a past, pres-| haven't done so, for the dances to-}| Buck Archer was scalped for
ent, and very much of a future.| morrow and Saturday. Remember} scalping and--was last seen 1o‘ii-

, « |
stead they discover ex-chorus girl

Mary Martin for the role.

There will be a late show Satur-
day night at 10:15. The name of
the attraction will be announced
later. ,

r

Monday and Tuesday, October 20, 21

sank

adventure
back-drop.

a waterfront chorus girl played by
Joan Bennett. However the syght
of the wild geese overhead bids
him to follow Blackie to Alaska,
where he becomes disillusioned and
discontent.

Ona Munson, as usual, has the
part of a “toughie.” Joan Bennett,
in spite of being somewhat miscast
in her role of waterfront chorus
girl, turns in an excellent perform-
ance. Henry Fonda is just a8 good
as ever.

Saturday, October 18
KISS THE BOYS GOODBYE

oe, ‘

Mary Martin, Don Ameche,
Jerome Cowan, and Oscar Levant.

A very gay, light, and entertaining
musical, with Don Ameche and
Mary Martin rating cheers. Don
plays the part of a director, who
with stage producer Jerome Cowan
and musical composer Oscar Le-
vant, goes on an extensive search
for a naive Southern girl to play the
lead in a Broadway production. In-

In the Grooves

By JIMMIE MORGAN

Charlie Barnet has issucd several
noteworthy dises, of whith thet most
-noteworthy is —“Harlem Speake
One of Barnet's most characteristic
habits is that of imitating negro or-
ganizations. [t is usually Ellington
or Basie that is imitated, but_on
this vale, ato js) Lunecford,, even

age trips have them. Other memories in this! ‘hough the piece was composed by

man's life would be a date annually for Mid-
Winters, always second or third choice;
tingling wilh pride when he sings Oh! David-
soir; blushing with embarrassment at Com-

Ellington, Fue solos by Barnet
(tenor) and Bobby Burnet (trump-
et) highlight this side. Another good
3arnet number is. “Lois.” scored in
the Ellington idiom and_ tastefully

than 1 did myself when he was throwing water | mencement when he forgets the words of the| played, Other recent pressings by
on freshmen from the top floor of Georgia.| Alma Mater; helping pass his tess-quiet neigh- /tais band are_ “Spanish Kick,”

—tiow is he now?: What's he doing for himself ?
‘never wilt forget the time that your broth—

bor in chapel down the aisle; sailing airplanes
in the auditorium made of programs; and the

”

Swingin’ on Nothin’ (appropria-
ately nanied),_“Murder_at_Peyton
Hall,” and “The Heart You Stole

Her excitiig adventires in many that your support now will deter-| ing the depot bare-footed . . «Tom.
countries gain ‘her two pursuers—| ving the caliber of the dance band my Burke was handicapped by feel-
Basil .Rathbone and Gegrge Brent,} for Midwinters, so do your part| ing very badly . . . Bill Mitchell
both of whom are torn between twol. . . (paid adv.) was wildly placing nickel bets on
desires. Rasil's fead tells him tol Two frosh, Bill and Dee Dunn,| Davidson in the Sewance stands. ...
kilt-her, while his |heart—tells hinrrsct-a new record for proforiged oper-| OFchids to George Mitchell for
to kiss her. George wants to Roldj ating when, after a big week-end] creating a Davidson checring sec-
ier’... for suspicion , .. and forj in Winston, returned for Monday's} tion from the scattered few David-
other things. felasses, only to pull out for the to-|sonians at the game, and showing
George Brent is outstanding, as| bacco town again Monday nite. The! more spirit than the entire Sewanee
usual, and Hona is intriguing and| irresistible temptation was one of| student body... Ed Taylor enter-
charming. She sings beautifully | Davidson's perennials, Jonnie Ben-| ed the ranks of the big dealers by
when the occasion requires, and] él whose allure is not to be de-| zoning down to Converse and the |
looks beautiful throughout the fea-} nied . ..The court of Control had] returning with his heart (Chick) to
ture. best take notice... Davidson, where they spent a
Wednesday's attraction had not]. Latest victim of a fractured heart dreamy Sunday together. Tony Dar-
been announced by press time, but | '3 Pan-Helt Bob Bryant, who just] by has established a one-man date
watch for it in the previews. wanders about, peeping out of the] bureau, and all lonely frosh are cor-..
. clouds only occasionally. Bob spends | dially invited to confer with old
Coming soon: CHARLEY’S more time in Charlotte than any} Darb, who will fix them up, or at
AUNT, with Jack Benny, Jimmy! other three men, and.can only be| least ‘give them a list of “Pen Pals”.
Ellison, Richard Hayn, Anne Bax-) found “during class hours ... Tom| We would like to tell you more this
ter, and Artene Whelan. Bell, the weight-lifter, is in a simi-| week, but the majority of. the dope
INTERNATIONAL SQUAD-|lar state, the cause being one of | is unprintable. Weld like to tell.
RON, with Ronald Reagan and] our faculty daughters. Go by and] you how Chuck Garnett's car stop-
James Stephenson.

try his bar-bells sometime after a| ped and his date pushed, but we
long, liard week-end. Wonderfully | haven't room, so until next week,
refreshing, even more so than up-| if anything turns up, skip it...

Il would like for Paul Kissling to
be the guest of the theatre for any
production this week.

go” EN

Dow
Pat

BY

| ranged title, one which features
good ensemble work:—Other-Savitt
waxwoérks are “As_We Walk _into
the Sunset” and-“Why Don't We Do
This More Often.”

'

~

Although a comparatively small ; FLUSHES: ROYAL AND
number-uo-peuple realize -it; tee Gab|-—--—-- OTHERWISE
Calloway band is one of the finest
anywhere. Cab, too, turns in an en.
graving of “I See a Million People,
the best point of which is a tenor
solo by the great Chu Berry. The}tive of the Western Union Tele-
novelty, “Hey Doc" is deitly pre-| raph Company, approaching the
sented, as is “Conchita,” a thumba.{ door, We has one of those yellow;
The fatter is well-scored by Buster | nauseating. livid envelopes in his
Harding, and Cozy Cole's drums and] hand. He knocks on the door,
Milton Hinton's bass supply superb | “slides under after greasing him-
prhythms = self,” and asks for Mr. Billy Ball.

yellow envelope contains. No hesi-
tating on the thresh—hold -fer hin.
He opens the envelope while on his
way to the nearest, tclephone booth.
In five minutes Hi-Fellers has set-
tled down in his most comfortable
telephonic stanee and is talking to
“Boots” at Randy-Make.

“Yeah, Boots, kid, we're having
two BIG dances this week-end, a
banquet, football game, feed, and
you'll get a’ nice compact or. brace-
let for a favor. We'll have a BIG

—the_ time: Wednesday, October
15, 1941, 2 P.M. Tre place: 423
-least —We-see-that-venerable bearer
of evil tidings, the local representa-

unsurpassed excitement of the [East-West
waler fights. °

No donor, however, needs make Davidson~a
gift of such a monument. This average man
lives on from year to year in the student body.
His characteristics are written into every wall
of Chambers, Rumple, and the old gym. He
has been at Davidson, under one name or an-
other, for about.a century. He will be at
Davidson until there is no more of that
cherished specics—the Davidson gentlemen.

“VY” Corner
— By Shaw -Smith

¢r spent one whole afternoon making water
bombs for people answering the telephone.
He'd yell out from the top floor of the dormi-
tory, ‘Hey, freshman, what’s your name? Re-
gardless of tlie answer he'd come back with,
“You're wanited on the telephone.’ Then meckly
the sucker would pick-up the receiver of the
telephone and almost drown in the attempt
to get out of the way of the downpour from
above. We really did things then.”

Davidson really does things now. The “good
ole days” are happening right now and’ you
don’t have to go back-ten years to see them.

~ Names and faces reappear on the campus like
planets in the sky. The buildings change but
the tradition doesn’t,. The present student
body welcomes former student bodies and the| mers and wife are to visit—try it some Sun-
more that come the merrier. Feel free to say,| day night... That the Book Exchange checks
“Hello, gentlemen” and “freshman, keep off{| Te ready ... better come get ‘em now, cause
the grass.” We want you to feel just as much| YOu know how badly we need ’em . .. How
at home as you ever did. much Mrs. Mebane and Mrs. Erwin mean to
the Y.... they and their lady cohorts ate yet

DO YOU KNOW: How nice librarian Chal-

[is “City Called Heaven” and “It's
~-¥ou Again,”-two polished perform,

The new Sam Donahue band is
another. imitator of Jimmie Lunce-
ford’s style. .-Its -recent titles are
“Four or Five Times,” “Scooter,”
"Pick Up the Groove,” and “Beat
the Band to the Bar.” Irene. Daye,
who used to sing with Gene Krupa,
is now with the Donahue organiza-
tion,,

From Me.”

Will Bradley has organized a
small band, and this month has pre-
sented its first recording, “Basin
Street Boogié.” This is a nice side,
one which shows off lots of fine
work by Mahlon Clark_on clarinet,
Leo Castaldo on trumpet, and Brad-
ley on trombone. Jazz lovers will
also enjoy .Bradley’s big band ar-
rangements of “In the Hall of the
Mountain King” and “From the:
Land of the Sky-bltue Water.” __

Les Brown has one of the finest
bands in the country. Ample proof

Perhaps some of you have heard
about Artie Shaw's newest orches-
tra, which he organized last. month
and which is now on tour, The
thirty-piece aggregation includes six
brass, five reeds, four rhythm, eight
violins, four violas, and three ‘cellos.
‘Phis: new ‘band combinesthe bestt
qualities of Shaw's first band and
the twenty-one-picce organization
that he had last winter. In_ its
tanks are such stellar soloists as

ances. Ralph Young's vocals are
rather stiffly sung, however.

Jan Savitt’s brass section is the
shining light in sé6me new sides by
the Top-hatters. Said section is in| George Auld, tenor sax, ‘Hot Lips”
especially fine form on “I See a; Page, trumpet, and Jack Jenny,
Million People,” one of the best} trombone. Records will be Victors,
tunes to come out in a long time., and Shaw fans all over the United
This is well sing by Allan DeWitt. | States are eagerly awaiting the first

‘Fhe -week-end-is packed and jammed with
all kinds of events from inaugurations to foot-
ball games. Join in every one of these things,
have a good time, and plan to conte back

more than just one day in the year.
Don’t Miss:

Albert Winn’s greeting to the alumni -on
page one of this issue. - ~~

to fail in coming through with any request
to aid in our work... How much we hope Mrs.
Arbuckle is better . . . mother to our Y, you
know, and half of the hard-working Ar-
buckle team... Congratulations, incidentally,
to Dr. Arbuckle on another birthday. That|
Billy Rose—must be the maestro himself—
plays the harmonica ... he ought to work well
with the amateur show ... there’s talk of one,
you know ... People won’t always tell about
themselves,! so if you know of any amateur
The probable line-up for the game Satur- {| talent worthy of appearing, let us know, will
day.

The Homecoming and Inaugural stories with
the schedule for the week-end included.

(Continued on Page Seven)

“La—Cinquantaine”_is_a_—well-ar-| releases,__= ~_

Billy, being a poor freshman, un-
used to the excitement of receiving
a Wire, grabs it excitedly, almost
tears it asunder in his frenzy, and
finds the following epitaph; “CAN’T
COME RECAUSE OF THINGS
AND_STUFF. SO SORRY. LET-
TER FOLLOWS. LOVE PEE-
WEE.” He reads it over again and
again. He is in a perfectly be-

tind that his own fittle Peewee cant
come because. of “things and stuff.”
He doesn’t knaw what to do. Then
he crawls under the covers,tets out
a blood-curdling yelp and weeps
convulsively. He is a broken. soul.
He-makes a0 tttor
and make another stab at trying
to get a date for Homecoming, but
takes his defeat meekly with no ac-
tion otler than his pitiful crying
scene.

Our scene shifts; lights, camera,
action, etc. Time: the same, Scene:
54 Georgia. Mr. Gaffney enterg the
room of “Hi-Fellérs" McGarity, one

of_the_big-deal_ seniors.__ (Know.

Don’t Wait! Subscribe Now to
THE DAVIDSONIAN |

Only $1.50 Per Year

Send Name and Address to

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DAVIDSON, N. C.

\ .
Eo

on every southern campus of any
consequence, Hi-Fellers js always
seen at the biggest deals in Char-
lotte, always manages to make the
Deb Baw, Sweet Briar May"-Day,
Hollins’ Spring Trot, W. C. ‘Fall
Fawmal, or the St. Mary'é Lawn
Party and Bizarre. This man is seen
everywhere. Whenever he alights
on a nearby female-campus gales of
laughter emanate from the female
faces, screams of “Oh, there's Hi-
Fellers again!” clutter up the land-
scape. ‘-McGARITY HAS ARRIV-
ED.) McGarity knows what that

wildered state, and is amazed to

rime. What train do you arrive on?
».. OC K, I'll meet cha . Bye.”

That's alf there is to it, Fresh-
men. Take note. Hi-Fellers took
his defeat with a counter-attack,
as they say down armory ‘way,
and instead of pulling up the covers
and weeping, he made a dash for
the booth and got a girl. Did he lay
down on the job?

|__Lastly, we come .to_the bachelor.
faculty member who receives a
down-the-drain-o-gram. What does
he do? Pull a dramatic crying
scence? Make a dash for the near-
est booth? No, he rationalizes and
analyzes the_ situation, “carefully
weighing each suggestion that is de-
veloped in the darkroom of his
photographic mind. After receiving
the wire, he bumps into another
“bach fak" in the post office after
lunch, and says: “I say, old boy,
what action should I take? I re-
ceived a negative respondez-vous
this morning concerning the prom
engagement I had made for the
approaching week end”

“Well, why don’t you go to the
library this afternoon and pen a
Note to that agronomy professor
friend of yours up at Female Tech?”

“That I shall do” was the quick
and world-shaking reply. ;

These are only simple fractures,
Sentle reader; it would take acres
of paper to explain some of the
compound fractures that some stu-
dents of this institution have receiv-
ed. You've all heard about the boy
that received five flushes in one
day to the tune of a terrific tele-

(Continued on Page Sir) .
