Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 13, 1941
’ . willing to make a complaint to the entire é
The PMabidsonian | wows 7 With the Staff
; = | If this suggestion is used, we believe that DA Y S
Founded By the Class of 1915 | it will clear up matters considerably. Of By AL WYNN
Member course, it is only applicable if the present sys- , - RY
Associated Collegiate Press | tem of closed politics is still desirable. Which SO THIS IS DAVIDSON! ee We ee ; eee edhe DI A
| . ‘ % “4 sks a s !
Distributor of we shall believe to be the case, until the stu- Scene: Dormitory Row; | stu- “e set ; f ay
- i sag . : ‘ lents r m. ter which the consensus oO
Collegiate Disest enh eeey any cues ore oat oe wn M opinion is that Bill Jones is certain-
7 ssa fons ea oth ‘ime: Most any night, except ly a mish and unfit to associate with
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” : Saturday or Sunday. the rest of humanity. Also it is BILL LEMMON care
i] | THE ELEVENTH HOUR— * As the curtain rises several up-] soon pointed out that he spoke to a
Printed By The : : perclassmen are engaged in the] professor on the campus, spoke to , nine : ;
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY At that time men said they would war no | gsuat collegiate pastime of bulling, | a man he didn't know, and actually| ‘After a violent tingual attack! Casey Jones lat Ralph Williams
Charlotte, North Carolina more. Free Americans utilized their constitu- from Beester Burwell and a per-| have just purchased controlling in-

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED POR NATIONAL ADVERTISING OY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
: College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON Ave. New Yorke, N. Y.

Cmicaco - BosTom - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

fntered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

AND Y= DAU Bi sac css55. nooo ic akst ocusesess EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JACK COVINGTON BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF

Paul BumBargeto..c.ccs cscs cc ccs cc Assistant: Editor.
Tom Cauble Associate Editor
JORRIMICR Geaccadencu sacs us dpaucceccouseetanee Associate Editor
Bd—Watsotterss ccscccsecescesctenseessses -Associate Editor
Lawson Withees ..Associate Editor
Dick Cob --Managing Editor
Harwell Darby Managing Editor |
Bob Garvey ; ...Managing Editor
W. C. Plunkett ..Managing Editor
Al Winn -Managing Editor
Bob Carter -~ SOT sUsaceaes aGeaaes ..Sports Editor
DAVIN VOSbUIRh occ occ oro o a occ cc icccusawcssccukuMOViGcRditor

Billy Barker Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF

Tom Plonk h .-Assistant Business Manager
“ Dick ReUYiissacssspncsccsss ...-.-Assistant Business Manager
BGS ScOt tiucusssessssstscacessssteagscsate ...Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt.-.....-.2..2.2...........-....Circulation Manager
ONG GRICN CON Suiuens ech lowe seceusuacusecccyead Collection Manager
Baxter Freeze.-.-.--.--..-- -----------Subscription Manager

This paper is the official’ history of college life,
and is a medium of student and faculty opinion.
As such it welcomes any contributions or com-
munications to it, provided such does not contain
derogatory reference to faculty or students, pro-
fanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All
material must be in the editor's hands by Monday
night of the week that it is to be printed, and the
editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any
contribution or communication.

ELECTION PROPOSAL—

At very little added expense and hardly any
extra trouble our balloting system might be
changed a great deal for the better. Our pro-
posal is that “on the polls desk be placed a
small stapling machine with which voters may
clamp their ballot. together so as to make
secret the name signed to the ballot.”

In other words, the ballots could be printed
with a little extra space at the bottom, be-
tween the last nominee’s name and the line
where the voter signs his name. Then, after
marking and signing a ballot, it would be
dropped into the box, and when counted would
not reveal “who voted for whom.”

Signing names originated when ballots were.

cast in chapel. At that time it was necessary
to sign ballots to-’enable the tellers to dis
tinguish between genuine and faked ballots,
and to eliminate the possibility of a man
“stuffing the box.” Since balloting is no longer
done in chapel, it is no longer necessary that
names be signed for that purpose. The sign-
ing of names was continued when the Elec-
tions Board system came in, in order to en-
able the Board to check or investigate any
possible combines, or illegal tactics in regard
to the elections. eee

Nowhere in the Elections Board set-up is’it
stated specifically or by implication that the
members of that group are to use their office
to make known “who voted for whom.” In
fact it is plain that they are honor-bound to re-
frain from such statements.

However, this year it has already become
common knowledge after each ballot what
groups supported what candidates. This is
not directly traceable to any. one man; rather,
it is the result of the action of the entire group
through hints, vague statements, etc. And
this is bringing politics back.

If the student body desires politics in elec-
tions—let’s have them. But why continue to
support one system in theory and another in
practice? And that is exactly what is hap-
pening so far this year. If the present hap-
penings continue the system will become a
mere farce.

Therefore we. strongly advocate sealing a
man’s name by means of one clip placed on
each side of the folded bottom of each ballot.
Thereby, the ballot will actually be secret.
Since names are checked as each man votes,
there can be no stuffing or absentee balloting.
And if there is to be an investigation, it would
be a simple matter to tear open the names.

Furthermore, if this feature is to be placed
in the by-laws, it should be firmly and em-
phatically stated that no member of the Board
or Council shall attempt to learn any name on
a ballot, unless authorized to do so by the
proper action of the council—not just because
two or three men suspect foul play, but are not

tional rights—the orators hammered away,
the editors backed them up, the people believed
—America would never fight on foreign soil.
The sun broke through the clouds, to beam on
a warm friendly earth. The strokes of the
clock were few.

Came the War. Germany and _ Bel-
gium, France. England. The Central Pow-
ers vs. the Allies. War “over there.” In

for awhile.

America, peace The leaders de-
clared America would remain neutral. That
was right, thought the people. A wide ap-
probation of the policy held sway. Let them
keep their own fight. The sound of ten,

Time rolled along Ideas changed. Opin-

ions shifted. “Save the world for Democ-
racy.” America might be forced into the
War. The people want no war, but if it is in-

fate. Now was the
It would soon become too late. Our be-
loved system of government was threatened.
It must be upheld at all costs. Perhaps war
Many think so.

evitable, well—such is

time.

is the only way. Eleven
o'clock.

America must act, and immediately, if de-
mocracy is to be,saved. The future of the
race is threatened. We hate Germany. (Their
leaders are evil). War is the only way out.
America must assert herself. The people are
unitedly in favor of action to aid the allies,
even to the extent of sending American youth
abroad, Fat senators vote to ship, their young
constituents to the field of death, WAR DE-
CLARED! cry the streamers to a thoroughly
enraged nation. It is high noon.

Then—months of’ fighting. Death to the
tune of screaming shells and whispering
clouds of gas. Men torn and shattered, lying
in Flanders field—dying and dead mingled
closely. Civilization tottering. But the
Allies prove too strong. Like the one horse
shay collapse the Central Powers. Peace.

The “twenties” roar in.
Booms are everyday affairs.
Prosperity follows a period of orientation to
the new world-situation, Fortunes are made.
New leaders appear to condemn war in all its
evil. Again the people approve. War? Never
But the thought of war is drowned in
the mad rush for wealth and such happiness
as may go with it.

Post-war madness,
Prices rocket.

again.

The Crash. Suicides. Towns wiped clean

of capital, Men tungry and men unemployed

Another world-wide depression. Business
stagnates. Most see little hope for the future.
Is there a future?

The thirties arrive to find a serious and |

somber world. As the years pass hopes revive.
Conditions improve. New men control the
wheels of government. Hope. The end of the
As order is restored to a
world of chaos, men again dream of power.
As the world reaches a new equilibrium, Euro-
pean leaders fall. “Isms” become the rage.
Revolts flare in foreign lands, but America
continues her policy of non-aggression, No
war at any price is the watch-word.

decade approaches.

Then — Hitler demands more lands, desires

unlimited power. Diplomatic wars result.
Then actual bloodshed. World War II. Eng-
land and France stack their might against the
onrush of Nazism. Italy crawls in as France
falls. In America the non-interventionists are
still powerful. The people are still deter-
mined there shall be no war for the United
States,
_ Public opinion shifts. National Defense!
Aid to England. Help all we can — but keep
our soldiers at home. They shall not tread on
foreign soil. But deep in the minds of many
rises the question of whether America may
not have to actively participate, in order to
save the world.

If not immediately, then in the near future.
The leaders carefully avoid this feeling, but
to many it is evident that they think of the
possibility—as they must. Perhaps war is the

only way? Perhaps it will always be the only”

way. |

~ Many become resigned to the hopelessness
of it all. Youth prepares for the draft. Those
who once swore they would never go to war,
now accept the onrushing avalanche of pre-
paredness as an absolute necessity. England
has become our first line of defense. We must
protect her at all cost. The bell tolls eleven.
Will midnight come?

A course in Latin-American history has
been added to the curriculum at Lafayette.

their bodies reclined in varying po-
sitions of ease and studied boredom
about the room, which lies in wild
havoc, as if a recent tornado had
wrecked its motley contents.

The current topic of conversation
seems té be a very unusual one—
an assignment for the next day. Joe
continues :—“and undoubtedly this
is the most noxious course offered.
We actually are required to read a
page a day. Have I studied? What
do you think I am—a mish? You
did not see me studying! Listen,
I know you slipped off to the library
last night; and then you come tellin’
me you zeroed the writ today. What
a limber!”

To which Sam might reply, after
recovering from the momentary
confusion caused by so blunt a re-
mark concerning his mistake of the
past evening, “but did you see Bill
Jones this morning in “Roman
Band Instruments 42?" Dr. Smith
shot him a question and he an-
swered it. What's more he asked
him a question back. What a—
but I think that's the lowest-I ever
heard. And that's the way he is in
all my classes. Always studies, and

“politicked” by complimenting one
of his classmates on a new suit, to
which numerous words of condem-
nation are added by all members
of the group.

The subject of the moment being
at an end, and hearing his name be-
ing bellowed loudly up and down
the hall, Joe leaves the room to the
accomplishment of a loud chorus of
“see ya later,” “take it easy,” etc.
Immediately on his departure the
air is filled with the sulphurous
fumes arising from the slurs cast
upon Joe, now that he is unable to
defend himself.

However, Joe, having met two
friends in the hall, proceeds td his
room where the three are soon
wrapped up in slams toward*those
whom he has just left, so the score
might appear to be slightly evened.

Back at our original scene the
conversation has shifted to the sul
ject of the past and future week-
ends, with each person present
cagerly exaggerating his story so as

to cause wider eyes and more
astonished looks after each take.
Soon —_past-— achievements have

[Continued on Page Six]

Song Of The Sirens

By JULIAN McCALL

Bob Sylvester and his boys will
be here Friday to serenade for our
Military Ball. Bob has been fea-
tured over N. B. C, M. B. S., and
C. B. S., and has done some re-
cording for “Brunshick.”

Sylvester has had engagements at
the Trianon, The Roseroom Ball-
room, The Cavalier Hotel and Cav-
alicr Beach Club at Virginia Beach;
and was also featured over the
Lance “Toastchee” program last
year playing out of Chagfotte. Fea-
tured with Bob and_ his is
Eloise on the vocals.

3ob Chester has come out with a
recent release in “Till The Lights of
London Shine Again"—vocal re-
frain by Bill Darnell, backed bg
“Chilly and Cold” with Betty Brad-
ley on the vocals.

boys

He also swings
out in a new arrangement of “Some-
body Stole My Gal,” backed by
“I'm Always Chasing Rainbows.”

“You Forgot About Me,” reversed

by “Moonlight and Tears,” is a new
one by Larry Clinton. Larry also
has a fine arrangement of “There'll
Be Some Changes Made.”

Glen Gray and his Casa Loma
Boys present two new renditions in
“IT Do, Do You?” and “You Say
the Sweetest Things Baby.”

Glen Miller presents..us witha
new one—"The Spirit Is With Me,”
a new type of slow jazz on the
jumpy side featured with a trumpet
ride by Johnny Best, former David-
son luminary. Charlie Spivak has
just come out with his second rec-
ord to date—“Hey, Sit-Down Bud.”
This corner recommends Charlie for
our final Spring dances in May—
he's sounding mighty fine these
days, playing at 6:00 every day at
around 130.

Let’s all. be out for the Military
Ball Friday and Saturday—a
large crowd at these dances will
mean a big name band for our final

set.

on

Film Report Card

By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday
March 13

ee ef

“Back Street”—Charles Boyer and
Margaret Sullavan.

This is one of the greatest-love
stories ever written and takes place
in the late nineteenth century. It's
characters add greatly to the orig-
inal story and make it one of the
best. The love affair originates in
one of the poorer sections of town
and gradually works its way across
town by means of hard work and
plenty of breaks.

Friday and Saturday
March 14 and 15

seee

“Andy Hardy's Private Secretary”
—Mickey Rooney, Lewis Stone and
Pat Holden.

This is probably Mickeys best
picture as it has every thing with
just a little more. The story is cen-
tered around the local high school
where Andy is president and chair-
man of every campus activity. He
doesn't care for anyone except Pol-
ly Benedict and his new car. After
a short time he makes friend with
two of the poorer children of town
and appoints the sweet girl as his
private secretary, much to the dis-
gust of Polly. All goes well until
Andy flunks his final exam and
faces the problem of leaving home
or not graduating. His private sec-
retary comes to his rescue and ev-

erything turns out fine. It is a
very humorous movie and has
plenty of action:
Monday and Tuesday
March 17 and 18
set
“Nice Girl”—Deanna Durbin,

Franchot Tone and Walter Bren-
nan.

Here we find Deanna in her most
important role to date apd with a
great supporting cast. Her last

picture before marriage and per-
haps her greatest as her voice goes
to new heights, With her voice she
overcomes the early scenes of pov-
erty and rises to a place in the
Her acting is superb and her
songs really roll along. It is a show
well worth seeing.
Wednesday
March 19
“*

world.

“Jennie”—Minus a name cast, this
is a thoroughly human, sincere pic-
ture of a family dominated by a fa-
ther who is a German immigrant.

He starts his life here as a mer-
chant in a small town and rules his
six children with an iron hand. One
by one they marry and refuse to
live under his rule any longer. A
high level of interest is maintained
throughout the entire picture. Not
until this week did I know that Pro-
fessors actually read his column
and when I heard it was discussed
in certain class I was very surprised.
To that certain professor may I say
that this column has been written as
late as dawn, on fast moving trains,
in a car and once in a beer factory.
Thus you may see it lacks poise be-
cause of the deadline which must be
kept. And as to criticism, well that
is not our aim. We attempt to tell
in a few words what the show is
about and all writings are original.
If an “unknown” comes along, the
facts are made up and run without
many ever knowing the difference.
If that certain.,,. professor__would
kindly write this columfi next week
I’ will give him the facts, a type-
writer, typing paper and a free pass
to the show. What about it Doc-
tor—My box is 13 and I shall be
waiting to hear from you in regards
to your writing the column for next
week. Deadline is 2 a. m. Tuesday
morning. I would Ikie for C. C.
Morehead to be the guest of the
theater for any show this week.

sonal check

his sheets, it has
been found that the statement pub-
lished this column last week
stating that Burres had not changed
them for a semester tobe erroneous;
he has just put on a pair that be-
longs to Thin Man Rogers for the
first fresh ones since Sept. This
famous (or infamous) mate of the
ex-football star buzzed around the
SAE dance in the city with “S. C.’s
most, photographed girl," Mackey,
who is to share the egotistic per-
sonality of Harry Hi's god, Snatz
McReynolds, during the weekend
which brings us our Military Dance
Set. This should cut Hite !,

Since the return of big operators
Greek McLean and Floyd G. Gran-
tham, who shot up Roanoke,
there has been no dope seeping out

on

in

to

from any source. However, it is
understood that these men went up
to see the sights from the city's
Thrill Hill... Sturdie John Purdie
jerked down to Wake but only to
be dissillusioned when he arrived
on the K. Z. conclave scene to find
He left
Teep Johiison on the spot to look
afer the girls and slipped on to St.
Mary's to se his novia...
Nelson and Archie Farrar
were reported to have been locked
in the Tavern with two sleek mu-
sicnaries . . . Geddy Herring and
Bob’s Garvey were on the same
site doing their dealing . -_- *
It appears that Jim Hogg has
completely annihilated our senior
of last year, Bub Coltrane, at W. C.
. Russel Beam wandered out to
the Mecklenburg after making a
fine stand at Queens Grill .. . Sev-
eral of the other K. A.’s were out
at this night spot under the gallant

only six girls and cokes.

Joe

leadership of Indian Joe  Lauch
carrying on to conquer greater
fields. Red Burke would have

whipped Mule Sproull off the seat
if it had not ben for Aileen the
sewing machine...

terest in The Green, according to
Peck Parrish, who acted as agent in
the gigantic transaction ... Sam
Woodward and Jack Peters are
busily vieing for the hand of a
beauteous damsel living on Church
street in the city. Incidentally she
two goodlooking mates, says
Sam, who needs more running
partners for this deal...

has

Tony Darby’s heart throbbed him
all the way to Bristol but not back
so readily as he checked in fate
forthe first-on- Monday. ...... John
Kennedy, the marine recruiting of-
ficer here on Mon., says that his
branch of the service is the place
and that the pretty uniform he
wears has gotten him many a date

Butch Caldwell is slicing Ox

Allcott for his date this enusing
weekend .. . Fluff McDuffie was
sitting behind Duke dorm during

the wee hours of Sun. a. m.... Lon-
nie Miller was the evesdropper. . .
The reason for the new nickname
given to Mac Morris is his nightly
stand—in-the-city—they —call—-him-
“Whistler”... Vm

ang}

Even though Frank Niven did
not see his early date in N. Y. due
to his taking up his stand on the
tracks while she waited in the room
set aside for such purposes, he did
receive one true love letter.

Meanwhile Jack Covington, the
Wadesboro mogul, snaked on the
above by pinning Ruthie up... Joe
Liles pulled a one night stand in
the palor of Con.

(At the request of our illustrious
economics professor the word
“whipped” has been used less fre-
quently in this column than in the
past. Until someone supplies an
adequate verb for description to ‘be
used in the future the pertinent pe-
tition shall be pigeonholed. With
all respect, it is necessary to take
such a course as a result of the im-
poverished English dictionary.)

Compassing
Campuses

BY

TOM CAUBLE

ON THE HONEY-PANTS:

There are a great many collegians
who wearing what campus
slang terms the “honey-pants.”

It is a purely American enigma
that the “honey-pants” not
pants at all but rather refer to a
blissful state within the individual
the spark of which is’ fired by a
young lady. :

A man wearing the “honeys” is
characterized by a peculiar facial
expression akin to the one worn by
the lamb before the slaughter—in
short he may be said to fawn.

One so afflicted is not considered
responsible for his acts and his fra-
ternity brothers should post a fresh-
man to accompany him at all times
to keep him from stepping in open
manholes, prevent his being run
over in crossing streets, and gener-
ally to insure his personal-safety.

It is further accepted that his
roommate should be granted a pow-
er-of- attorney to prevent the total
conversion of his checking account
into orchids, gardenias, candy, spe-
cial delivery stamps, and various
and sundry other tokens.

It-is a certain mark of such a con-
dition when a suspect announces his
intention of going to the library to
study, borrows a book (he _ has
probably fost all his), and rushes

are

are

New Course On Civilization.

BERKELEY, Calif—(ACP)—An
overflow enrollment in a new Uni-
versity of California course on
American civilization is reported by
President Robert Gordon Sproul.

More than 1,500 students enrolled,
making it necessary for the univer-
sity to install a public address sys-
tem in a classroom adjoining the in-
stitution’s largest hall.

“The large enrollment is evidence
of the keen interest of our students
in American life and the American
contribution to civilization,” Presi-
dent Sproul said.

from the room wearing a pseudo-

scholarly frown. These men have
repeatedly been observed to angle
into the parlor of Watts in transit
where they entertain the long dis-
tance sugary lan-
guage.

When a man is in such a state,
his scholarship is in imminent dan-
ger, and he “wears the
pants” long enough to run up
against a review period, he should
either retain a tutor or cut all his
reviews. To be so afflicted during
an examination Period is no less
than disastrous and the subject
should withdraw from college to
avoid the stigma of flunking out.

In spite of these drawbacks this
blissful state has what are consid-
ered an overwhelming number of
good points. In the first place, a
man is completely immune to the
commonplaces of the workaday
world as he floats about in the
ether. He feels neither pain. nor
distress and never worries about
what to do of a week-end.

He is never bored by the tedious
for he neither sees nor hears., His
reputation for generosity is gteatly
enhanced thereby as he will com-
monly nod his head at any request.
(Beest Burwell could purloin his
hat, alarm clock, and overcoat with
never a dissenting remark).

operator with

in case

His energy and driving power are
so bolstered by this condition -that
he can even go to a girl-break
dance with his lady-love and beam

‘and smile all evening with never a

thought’ of collapsing’ into the ton-”
fetti.

A last minute telegraphic cam-
paign to secure a date for the
dances is never an expense that he
has to bear because he generally
extends his young lady a_ blanket
bid to all functions and thus can sit
back and moon while his cohorts
haunt the Western Union Em-
porium.

Such is the institution known as
the “honeys.”
