Page Two :

Letters to The Editor

The Dabidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915
Member

Associaled Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Dear Tony:

May J express to the student body through the
columns of your newspaper the appreciatian of the
Pan-Hellenie Council? We appreciate not only the
fine attendance at the dances, but also the traditionally
Davidsonian gentlemanly conduct which was evident
-ali-through -the weekend?

9

riddled with mistakes, for which the Council takes
all blame. We would have liked to have had both
dances in the armory, due to its greater size, but when
the hookings were made last spring, it was found that
we could reserve it only for the Saturday night dance.

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

Then there was the matter of the tax, which, as
we predicted, the student body payed good-naturcdly.
This was not only patriotic, nationally speaking, but
also from the Council's financial viewpoint.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

ACPRESENTEO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTIGING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON AVE. NEw York, N. Y.

Cnicaco - BOSTON - Los ANGELES ~ San Francisco

We wondered how many of you upperclassmen
missed the crystal ball Saturday ‘night at the Armory.
We had planned. to have the famous old sphere for
all the no-breaks, and were just as surprised as you
when. it didn’t show up. The owner had promised
to set it up and operate it himself, but neither he nor
the mechanism appeared.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

As for the next set—Midwinters—we, the Council.

od
o_o

EDITORIAL STAFF

ends in Davidson's history. We will make no rash
promises at this time. but promise. to continue our

Bobby Carter-...c..---- 0 nseenere ~-Assistant Editor Policy of-providing, Davidsonians with the dest in
7 . t c . : °

"a ne Blunkett. ~ Associate Editor dance music. We hope to introduce several ew and
2) eee . weteeens. a a fa . . .

i Managing Editor| different features at itis next gala event, and these

weeed Managing Editor | will be anmoutmeed at a later date.
i F Managing Edit . :
ieomy Fulcher. “Managing Editer| All we ask is the contineed patronage of the stu-
1 yman._.... ia * .
Hetry McIntosh... Managing Editor| dent body, for whom the dances are given, and in

--Sports Editor

------Movie Editor
taff Photographer

Lacy MacLean...

Clarence legerto
Billy “Barker

return, we promise three of the best sets ever to

grace the Armory.

BUSINESS STAFF
we cee ewan e cee ewe ce cece: Aasistant Business Manager.
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager’
Collections Manager

Thank you again for your fime spirit of co-opera-
tion. Qn behalf of the Pari-telleniec Council.

Calhoun Hipp
‘Teter Young.
Joe Martin.
Buck McNe
Ivey: Stuart.

Sincerely,

,

PAT RUDOLTIT

“VY” Corner

By Shaw Smith

This paper is the official history of college life,
and is a medium of student and faculty opinion.
As such it welcomes any contributions or com-
munications to it, provided such does not contain
derogatory reference to daculty or students, pro-
fanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All
material must -be in the editor’s hands by Monday |
night of the weck that it is to be printed, and the

editor reserves. the right to reject part or all of any
contribution or communication.

Homecoming! What a thought! It’ is different
irom- Homegoing ‘because first semester grades
aren't out yet. C? Took out low-grades—and that
is a reference to scholarship.

Seeing Mac_MeClure, Sam Wiley and many others
who were such hard “Y"’ workers a few years ago
was nice. Not enough space to name all those who
were back. Sam Hemplill, Luke Graham, Jay Bolin,
Dick- Shore, Chubby King. Carl Carlson (these last
twochaven't missed a game for many moons, 'tis

Our ‘Widespread Interests—
__More_ interest in things? More attention
to music, public speaking, plays, and other
entertainments? How can six hundred and
seventy students ever divide their attention rumored), Archie Torrey, Bob Finley and many
among the overwhelming number of enter-| more smiled again in this ol’ atmosphere. of David-
tainments on the campus and have six hundred | son. Course Grannic Sharpe was back. Well Allie
and seventy students at every presentation | is still here isn't she?
ever presented -in Chambers Auditorium?| Betty Co-ed Kerr—though of the Y. W. C. A—

There are simply too many opportunities af- ranks high in deportations—both of special and sing-
forded. ing variety. She sings in Statesville Church fgr Dr.

. . : Raynal's bunch this Sunday, by the way. Professor
This really does sound peculiar! But there Berg and Boys were a real last minute help when

may be more ‘in the statement of the first] calied on for quick change of chapel program ‘last
paragraph than can be seen by its outward | Friday. No need of. saying how hard that whole
appearance. Davidson College, with its few music department works anyway ‘cause we all know
hundred students, just has too much to offer it. I say, Friends, we are lucky to have Head-Man

. : Professor Pholl and his statf. Just don't believe they
these few hundred students in the way of

can be beat. Friday's program gave us “Jew” Clark
musical entertainment, ete. There are so on the spur of the ntoment, too. It is a willing spirit

many different stratified organizations, so]jike this that helps man believe in man. Thanks

many different presentations that few could] and “Y-ild poses-like orchids-to you ail.”

pass their work if all were attended by all. Who put that plug-nickle in the collection last Sun-
And is there a remedy? When a criticism | 9%*" Nojdon’ttett-me, Ping-ugty. “Tish, Tish. ~~]

a iven, there should always be offered a Strauss Waltzes, Victor Herbert pieces and other

_ . . . — |semicclassic numbers can—now. -be- enjoyed—via—the-
> remedy for the fault found. The actions taken “Y" radio. Bill Campbell worked for a-month on the

“by the Inter-Fraternity Council in disbanding | machine—but it still works, You know we really
aws henordry, fraternities was one of the|thank you, Billy.

first steps towar : Nominations for Unsung-Hero-of-the-Week is split

. ‘P ard culling out the unworthy directly between Jack Ramsey and Joe Happer. These

interests. If more actions were taken by the | iwo men—along with other_helpers from time-to-time.

interiraternity council, if only the best pro- have walked three or four .miles each Sunday to help

fi . . with the services at Shearer Chapel. Don't tell me

grams_were offered at night in Chambers, and that doesn't take real desire to be helpful—and a

H- students would endeavor to support those | right smart amount of shoe Jeather: rn

events in which they are most interested and Smoky Joe McLesky was a great name about four

. . or five years ago when Geneal Joe was a freshmen

really lend their whole-hearted interest to.a|here. Aiter some absence from class work, while he

few organizati : was working in the cold, cruel world, he decided to
be sh ganizations, perhaps more interest could church it all and get that diploma. He is back again
e shown by the entire student body. with us this year to finish and homecoming this year
& ’ . : was better for me because of his return. That goes
7 Why don t Davidson students have an iM-| for all of us who knew him. Besides a heavy class
terést.in music?” is the annual question that room Gchedule and ,duties at his home in Charlotte,
shrewdest . ists _ “yo | he finds time to write “funny” pep-speeches (remem-
flutists have always asked. “We ber the one before our game with Carolina. Yes,
spend more time on our music than we do on|he wrote it—he and Joe Miller), make talks—
any other outside activity and our efforts go really good ones—at young People’s Leagues, etc. as
, 4. Why is itz” well as announce play-by-play our football games.
unappreciated. ry 3S it? First one he did this year was on a five minute notice
The answ . : . and last Saturday he was without a_V, P. I. spotter.
her j ns er fies in the fact that too many Surely he deserves-a Y-ild Rose—shucks a couple of
other interests of students detract from their cm—and here they are. You'll probably, find him
appreciati : : here. e's the “dark and serious” lookihg ‘fellow
app reciation of music, Our efforts need tO] in the corner—studying. He's quite a ch ater and
be directed toward making presentations fewer better still a good one., To know him just a little
and farer between. is_impossible—no one stops there. All his many
oo __t. . .. _| friends know he has a heart of solid’ gold—pure solid
Such an essay has no éfféct unless it is gold. Welt, he Foro Sood start didn't he? You
backe : shou snow his folks. essir, the ministry can use
a d up by action on the part of the workers] Joe: he'll be a real partof a great work.
in. the student body. If every person would] Priestly-Conyers -just dropped in. Still has coat
cast his vote by attendance.to the programs
he is most interested in, there would be some
concrete way of basing a schedule for future
entertainments. If future entertainments are
less numerous, we believe they will be more
widely attended. What do you think?

and wants the professors to know it. We'll find if,
any read this column(?)} now by his grades, maybe.
Several old grads say they read the Davidsonian
from cover to cover—that’s gratifying to us and in-
sures that of the number of readers one ol’ Grad
wanted us to say—for the lighter side which he in-
sisted we needed—that ducks don’t walk softly ‘cause
they can’t walk hardly. I don’t understand it. See,
-now_come-on-down-and-get-a- good-supply-of-tellabh
jokes. Ed Scott and_Two Ton. Maxwell, please ndte
if you're still looking for some material for the
banquet. .

It- was a swell weekend and our Dr. Cunningham
is already another of Davidson’s great presidents. It’s
a fine thing to work under a man like that because

he is already making us feel we are working with

and tie in use, A good habit. Says he’s on his books

Don’t Miss:
The-letter to the editor from Pat Rudolph,
president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, —~
The question of the week which asks if

there need to be amendments to our student
body constitution. -

ita
Your former, Among the Greek” under ajhave you been in to give your constructive thought
new heading with a picture, “Down Fraternity | to him yee? _.
Court.” a See you at the “Y”—I hope.

The administration of the homecoming Dances was

-are-tooking forward-to having one of -the best-week=t

him, That goes for every man in the student body:

THE DAVIDSONIAN

_Cinema

Comments

_.._. , By CLARENCE LEGERTON.

Thureday, October 23, 1941

~The Filth

Homecoming has come and gone
and left in its wake three hundred
dazed and dreamy college men. In
spite of the tough ball game, most
of _the fellows will_admit_that_it

By ?? 2?

Columnist

_.” " ST

-Ensign Mith Flynn, having train- -
ed thoroughly in the art of naval
mancuvers, zipped up to the dances
ior a last fling before going on very
active. duty ... . Orchids to Cam

Thursday and Friday,
October 23 and 24
CHARLEY’S AUNT

oe @ ©

Jack Benny, James Ellison, Ed-
inund Gwenn, Reginald Owen, Ar-
leen Whelen, Laird Cregar, Rich-
ard Haydn, Anne Baxter, and Kay
Francis,

This revival of an old, old fav-
orite tops all its predécessors in
ydod old-fashioned horse-laughs.
Jack Benny has never been funnier.
He enacts the part of an Oxford boy:
who masquerades as a chaperoning
aunt so that his pals, Jimmy Ellti-
son and Richard Haydn, can have
Aime Baxter and Arleen Whelan
to the house and propose to them.
One can well imagine the inane
situations ‘which Jack gets into
in feminine garb. All the actions
take place in the Nfncties, of course.

vn extra good supporting ‘cast
helps out considerably in today’s
version. Tops among the male act-
ors are Edmund Gwenn and Liard
Cregar, while Kay Francis is best
among the femmes. Jack ‘himself
carries the greater part of the
script—and very successfully too.
lf your’e: in the mood for comedy,
don't. miss this one. .

Saturday, October the 25th
LAW OF THE TROPICS

zee
Constance Bennett, Jeffrey Lynn,
Regis Toomey, Mona Maris, and.
Hobart Bosworth.
A South American rubber plant-

ation provides the background for]:

this story of intrigue and tomance.
Jeffrey Lynn is jilted by his Amer-
icvan franece practically on his wed-
ding day. Since the natives would
lose their respect for him if they
knew the truth, he hires night club
singer Constance Bennett to mas-

querade as his fiancee. She agrees
to play the part and even to marry
him for the sum of $500.00. Al-
though Jcff later finds out that she
is a fugitive from justice, he is in
no“poSition to be choosy.

Both this main plot and the sub-
plot finally work out, with the
fade-out showing Connie going to
Brooklyn to prove her innocence
with Jeff standing beside her.

Monday and Tuesday
October 26 and 27

INTERNATIONAL SQUADRON
se * y

Ronald Reagan, Olympe Bradna,
William..Lundigan, Joan Perry, and.
Reginald Denny.

In this exciting drama; Ronald
Reagan is ideally. cast as a former
dare-devil pilot who flies to Eng-
land delivering a bomber and. re-
mains there to join the foreign
legion of the R. A. F. His adven-
tures in the clouds -are portrayed
in some of the most starling air
photograhphy ever filmed. The
late James Stephenson is seen as
the devoted leader of the foreign
squadron. William Lundigan and
Reginald Denny are buddy's of
Ronald’s and Olympe Branda lends
the romantic interest. It’s exciting
and timely and will be, enjoyed
by all.

" Wednesday, October the 28th

" By press time no production had
been booked for this date, but it
will be announced soon in the pre-
views.

COMING: A YANK IN THE
R. A. F., with Tyrone Power and
Betty Grable.

ALOMA OF THE SOUTH SEAS
with Dorothy Lamour and Jon Hall.
I would like for Fred Morton
to .be the guest of the theatre for
any production this week.

In the Grooves

By JIMMIE MORGAN

was a good weekend, on the whole.

| Tis always amazing to see the hy-

bernating rouse itself for a furious
[two days, then lapse back into its
-usual social-tethargy.

John Crichton lost, friends and
alienated by locking himself, and.
we suppose, his date in the parlor at
Chapman's for a period that can
best be measured by a calender.
In spite of rumors to the contrary,

A .
said date was not Veronica Lake.

Butch Pharr has the honor of hav-
ing the best luck on blind dates,
even if Virginia didnt... Arch
Taylor's being flushed in favor of
a Gurnsey in a county fair caused
him to escort that famous belle of'
song and story, Diamond Lil ... .
Tad Larkin birned oft The wirt|
late Thursday night after his sixth
flush, but to no avail... Joe Bach-
man got flushed late Friday after-
noon, by postal card . After
tearful goodbyes Ann Huntington,
Jane Hilliard; and Ellen Self pulled
out for Asheville Sunday in a cloud
of dust only. to have,their car break
down. They returned Sunday nite
for supper, to the delight of West-
all and Pollback, and extended their
visit until Monday ... A peculiar
double-deal happened Friday night
when Pat Rudolph was in the tick-
et booth serving -his Nalfshour duty.
as ticket seller, He was making
good time with the hat-check girl
while_his date was responding to
some super-snaking outside .
Ask, Tommy Lane how he got all the
ink in his hair. That’s what you
get for having that leaky pen, Tom-
MY. ee | ——n

Martha Buchanan pleaded press-
ing, studies in flushing Southgate
Jones, the reat reason being that
she is in love with “Long John”
Belk. Dick Kelly late-dated
Edna Sprunt while Jim Harris
blithely went to bed in ignorance...
Seen after sun-up Sunday morning
were Bill Tarleton, Dee Dunn, Bob
Whaling, and Louis Bibb, sleepy
but dreamy eyed. Dee was softly
repeating the phrase, “Mine, thine,
forevermore” which must have some

Vinee Courtney and his orchestra
lived up to their reputation as the
state’s finest college dance band
in fine style, T thought, after hear-
them at the Armory Auditorium last
weekend. Especially impressive
were the fine arrangements, some of
them original and others exact
copies of those of top-ranking bands.
The latter were interpreted very
well, especially those used by To
my Dorsey. Courtney himself is
an exeellént singer of ballads, and
This band accompanied him with
polish and precision. The powerful
brass section made the faster num-
bers distinctive, and the drummer,
as all with agree, helped plenty
too. But perhaps the only real
criticism of the band from the danc-
ers point of view was over em-
phasis of these jump tunes, which
times
dancing and too loud for normal
though,
the band was fine in most respects.

The Courtney musicians showed the

at were too fast for easy

conversation. Musically,

results of good rehearsing, play-
-ing well as a unit, and the soloists,
especially those on alto and tenor,
very- good. Vince
Courtney seems to have something
there. ,

saxes, were

We want to encourage all Dav-
idson students to attend the Phi Mu
Alpha concert series if it
all possible. Even if you are strict-

is at

ly a worshipper of jazz, it will be
of great benefit to you to hear these
concerts, because a knowledge of
.classical_music_helps one—to get
much more out of jazz than he
would otherwise.

On the first program Phi Mu
Alpha is presenting the Farbman
Symphonietta, which is composed
-of=some -of=the-finest~young -musi-
cians if the country. This group
is one that you can’t afford to miss,
so make it a point to be present
at this program and at all the re-
mainder of the series.

_-Woody Herman and Bing Crosby
recently made a record date to-
gether in hopes of producing some-
thing really outstanding, and the

.Herman_on alto_sax, Neal Reid_on|

results, “I Ain’t Got Nobody” g@nd
“Whistlér'S"Mother-in-law,” espe-
cially the former, are not far from
that standard. But musicians—will
like “Bishop’s Blues” even better.
It was dedicated to Joe Bishop,
former Herman arranger who has
been in the hospital for the last
year, and-Joe no doubt felt honored
when he heard the fine solos by

trombone, and show-stealing Cappy

Lewis on trumpet. The reverse is|

significance . . Bibb and, Nita
wired all their little friends that

Wilson far breaking all records in
Righ luck. He was flushed six
times, then settled for a blind date
on the seventh, only to have her:
get sick: after the Friday. night
dances .... She went home.

Did you see—Sid Daffin and date
holding hands under the table in
the Vardy Gritl Sunday afternoon,
unconscious of all kibitzers? Or,
Bob Rankin with his Queen of
Hearts dreaming of. a full-house
after almost getting a royal-flush?
The long line of cars out Concord
road carly Sunday ayem. Keyhole's
phacton prominent among them?

Eddy Taylor had Saturday din-
ner with our, proxy and escorted __
Chick in fine style. Then, to top
_off-a-perfect week-end he took her
back to Speeburg in the executive
Buick, coming back with a few ex-
tra fenders he picked up along the
way.... .

-« Caroline Miller.was at the dances
again, this time with Sam Spencer.
We wonder. if, the distant future,
when she's too old to come, David-
son will continue to have dances.
She’s as much a part of a Davidson

‘| dance scp as Sergeant Burton...

Yarboro had hard time keeping
his date’s former suitor in hand, as
they forsook their own corners to
haunt that of the Kappa Sigs.

“ly Séems that such a momentous
weekend would produce more dope
than this, but the reaf dealers did
such an excellent job of keeping
their activities quict that not much
has filtered out. Bill Lyman’s date
was on a moral drive, so Bill ex-
hibited his Dr. Jekyll side all week-
rend, much to his own amazement
and every one else’s. And so to
press.. There'll no doubt be a guest
columnist next week, and if you
like his stuff better for goshsakes
tell Tony so that maybe these Mon-
day nights of frantic dope-getting
and typewriter pounding may come
to an end. . The contest for
guessing the identity of the filth
colmnist is still in full swing. Just
cut out and mail the top of Chames
bers building (or a reaonable fac-
imile_thereof)_and_mailwith-your—
answer before midnight Thursday.
The first ten correct answers wilt

this time it’s real and almost planned
an excursion, to South Carolina. . .

receive absolutely free a fur-lined
canopy for your bed. Hurry!

Down

-Pat

BY

PAT RUDOLPH

a nice instrumental entitled, “Wood-.
sheddin’ With Woody:’—

Tommy Dorsey: has this month
released the most unusual record
in his history. The titles are “Eli.
Eli,” the Jewish chant, and “None
But the Lonely Heart.” Both are
scored without ryhthm by Stordahl.
On the first side Ziggy Elman ren-
ders a trumpet solo simply and
with feeling, while Dorsey's most
moving trombone solo in years is
spotlighted on the latter. All music
lovers should enjoy this Victor
coupling. Another Dorseydise pairs
a dull “Pale Moon” with “Hallelu-

jah,” which, although played much

too fast, has good solos.

Album of the week is “Hot Pi-
anos,” the finest Victor has issued
in years. The eight piano solos are
equally divided between Earl Hines,
Fats Waller, Duke Ellington, and
“Jelly Roll” Morton, and all are
fine. Morton’s “Seattle Hunch” and
“Freakish” were made in 1929, and
are examples of his best / work;
Waller’s “Carolina Shout’-and “Ring
Dem Bells” are top-drawer material.
as are Ellington’s “Dear Old South-
land” and “Solitude”; and Hines’
“Sunny Side of the Street” and
“Melancholy Baby” are also very
good, although he has done better.
An-excellent collection of-jazz -pi-
anistics, oo

John Kirby has issued two new
waxings, “Fifi’s Rhapsody” and “It’s
Only a Paper Moon.” | These are
not up to Kirby's standard, but
nevertheless should not be over-
looked Star of both sides is pianist
Billy Kyle, who plays solos of con-
sistent excitement.

Guest Columnist
HENRY McINTOSH

On The Art of Telling One's Week.
_end Date Good-bye:

At first thought one might be
prone to think that there is little
art. in saying good-bye ... even
though twenty-five or moré dollars
have been spent to have the op-
portunity. But yet, after closer con-
sideration, we discover as delicate a
technique is involved as in “smooch--
ing the prof” or avoiding the com—
mon “dance weekend flush” .. as
much a variety as is found in the
“spice of life.”

For example, there is the “clon-
gated-good-bye.” This type is gen-
-erally characterized both by physical
exertion and mental suffering. Sev-
al_hours are usually required to
elegantly perform such an ordeal
and “whip” the adversary into per-
.fect-submission.. Needless to say,
soltiude is essential for such an.
undertaking,

To this. “elongated” classification
might be added -three ~sub-heads;
the “limber-good-bye,” the “letter-
following'|_type—and_the—familiar
“operator-or-manana-farewell.” Yet
they are as different from each
other as the proverbial day from
night, for in the “limber” type the
good-bye is followed only by hastily
renewing “the every-day studying

its—-Or-the other hand the “let.
ter==foltowing = €longated= good >
bye” is characterized by a consid-
erable volley of airmail specials, us-
ually reaching their destination be-
fore the date. But the most inter-
esting “elongated-good-bye” is that
commonly called the .“operator-or-
manana-farewell.” Few are able
to match the cadence required for
such an undertaking, as it neces-
itates a hurried trip the next day
to_complete the unfinished “super-.

relongated-farewell,” preferably -in
more encouraging ‘surroundings
than the porch or a frat house.

In contrast to the aforementioned
good-byes, there is the short and
to the point type .. . frequently
referred to as the “telescopic-fare-
well.” However, this technique
should be employed only in ex-
treme cases as it is usually so short
that it’s effect is almost neglible
both on the participants and the
spectators alike.

“Then ‘there is the “Triangular-
good-bye "characterized by the
charming damsel not only bidding
adue to her week-end date, but
also to the “powerhouse” who re-
turned her to the rooming house
just in time for breakfast. Fem-
inine slyfess is required for such
a type. Also there are the “rec-
tangular.” “hexangular” and some
times the “octangular-farewells,” all
of which embody more than the
essential and desired. two parties.
'In some cases a “circle-good-bye”’-
is found. with the feminine good-
.byes completely encircling frater-
nity court. Needless to say, all of
the geometrical types are to be
avoided: ~ _
Lastly, there is the “sleeperette-
good-bye.” In many cases this is
extremely adviseable for it usually
occurs when a date is compelled to
catch a bus in the carly hours of
the_morning.—-It varies in intensity
from not getting up_at_all_to not_
even_going to bed the night Me-
fore. . Originally, as is to be ex-
pected, plays an important part in
developing the proper “sleeperette’
skill, - —
Butiseldom is one able to develop
a personalized type that may be
successfully used to cope with any
and all conditions that may arise

-in-bidding-good-bye. But in striv-

be
