Page Two

The Wavidsonian |

Founded By the Class of 1915

' Letter to The Editor

i Tony Darby
1 Editor of The DAVIDSONIAN,
+ Davidson, N.C.
‘Dear Touv:
This ts a “thank-you letter” to the studént

Distributor of
‘Collesiale Digest ibody which Ithope vou can tind a corner ior
Fin the DAVIDSONIAN, | will admit that

i ly “F Better Davidson” |
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson the idea of a “book brigade” entailed its tcr-

-—.trers as the hooks were obviously tiable to a
beating when passing through three hundred
energetic palins. There was also danger that
jal large percentage of the students would fail

Member

Associated Collegiate Press

«

Printed Uy The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte. North Carotina

.

SUBSCRIPTION-RATES ~—
’Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Eollegiate year

sod

been considerable anywhere but at Davidson.
: Without almost the entire enrollment of the
icollege we could not, have formed two lines
‘trom deitdiag co building and the whole plan
[would have failed. fortunately all our fears
were groundless. There was surprisingly little
| dainage done to the books and as I said in
|chapel 1l:do not believe any student body
os: -- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF! 1) the country would have shown a larger per-
BUSINESS MANAGER | contage out, tor the job or a better spirit of
co-operation. Even after the lines had been
; _,_.{ dismissed Over twenty. men volunteered for

_ Assistant Editor ~
‘Sone be more avofk the same day

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING OY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON AvE, New YorK, N. Y.

Ewicago += BOSON - Los ANGELES - San Faancisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the-act of March 3rd, 1879

HARWELL DARBY.. ..-
JOHN CRICHTON ...........

AL

EDITORI
Wobhy Carter... 2 6 ee
OW inhnket

AL Winu -. -

id

STAFF

-A\ssociate Editor) . [t is encouraging to, all of us who work in
eee iieythe library to know that the student body was
_-.---Managing Editor | sufficiency interested to put the moving over
oor anaeing ier | iN gocd order, [1 will be our highest profes-
_.-.--+--Sportg, Editor | sianai ambition to convince those who helped
soor-Movie Editor | is that they have a Hbrary that is worth the
trouble it vook to get into it.
Gratefully yours,

~CHAEMER DAVIDSON,

Director of the Library.

~ Jimmy Fulcher ..

Ball Lytmans..-2..

Henry Metntosh.

Lacy: Machean... .

‘Clarence Legerton__.
comet

ne

BUSINESS STAFF |

. Assistant Business Manager ;

Advertising Manager { Le
Circulation Manager| rs

eens -Cireulation Manager
meee eee eee ree eeee! Collections Manages | qemp—mmmvunenenetemasies

. we
CalhowiT fipp -

Hettr Yang.
due) Martn
Buck MeNeciy
[vey Stuart.

7 ~ :
This paper is the official history of college life,

- and t a-medinm-ofstident-and-taculty opinion.
As such it welcomes any. contributions or com-
munications to it, provided such does not contain
derogatory reference to faculty or studeifts, pro-
fanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All
material must be in the editor's hands by Monday
night of the weck that it is to be printed, and the

editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any
contribution-or commanications~

With
The Staff

ARCH TAYLOR
Guest Columnist

_

Vhe program of the Davidson College YMCA
3 One which is very broad in its seope, and
sinee this is so, there are certain departments
ineiuded wichin the organization which might
passibly eall for some explanation further than

l that whielwis afforded by the Wildeat Hand-

i] hook.

IN SYMPATHY

The DAVIDSONIAN wishes to expres»
deepest syTrpathy to Ed “Murray in his be
reavement duc to the loss of his father.

HOW WILL WE SETTLE IT? | Vhe work of the department of Deputa-

i tions, it seents, has been and ts generaliy mis-
Neheve it Or Wot. the genera? public.in Asger-. understood by a substantial portion of the-stu-

.

iva woday is thinking in terms uf 2 peace simiiar < dent body.” Some have ng edhecpiion whaisa-1

to that suggested by Woodrow Wilson in [91S, | set concerning the nature of this work while

. . . . _.., others have at best only a iazy idea that those
fhe iailure oi the former peace io iwlh who are lucky cnough to go on deputations
“its purpose as published by the convention of | travel to such giamorous places as Converse
the powers at Versailic, has perhaps taught or \Vinthrop, have a date. and incidentally
ihe molders of the new peace something in the make a short talk on some religious subject.

. . r oF : : .
sindy oi nations and contracts between na- Fhe?iormer class of students show ao inter
tions. -est at all in this department. and the litte?

class put in requests to be sent on the next
x [ia system of a World Court, a peace con-. deputation to Greensboro or Winthrop, only
{erence and a league of Nations is periected 19. tetire_in disappoiatmeut when told that
by the negotiators of peace at the end of the such “deals” are few and far between.

tent. os The reat work of the Deputati Depart-
present world war, \Voodrow Wilson's fife Putations Depart

: : ment is done by those unsung herocs ivho
_ walle possibly be as bographed as has been-sxeritice week-end of idle pleasure to take part
* VNoraham Cineoin’s ~

it programs ac Mt. Mourne, or Shearer’s
Chapel. or some other comparable place in
the hinterland. These men provide_special
music, OF prepare and deliver talks on sub-

___ With persons in the demoeracics thinking|
in terms of a congress of world powers, wie |

knows but what the idea will beeome am ae- | jects ranging irom “Keeping in the Groove”
twality 7 to “Missions. in the Belgian Congo.” The
There - are seertain mistakes that severa? | axdienee may be composed of beautiful young
countries made in the last peace that might Nail Jo the bloom of y uth or the Woma ns
. . — Auxiliary, Transportation may be provided
—he_remedied by the experienee of living the} 31.4 expenses paid, or the students may have
last twenty five years. Signing the pacts with- | to exercise the cid thumb and dig into the
‘out the intention of iuitilling them was one | pockets. ‘Nonetheless, it isa great and import-
serious mistake made by both England and/ ant opportaniky for reat Christian service.
the United States. _ Statistics are often dull, but always -very
revealing, Reports were not kept for the whole
year's activity last year, byt from the partial
records which we have on file we see that
Davidson's “deputaters” traveled thirteen hun-
dred miles to take part in programs of one
sort. or another, and.that doesn’t include re-
turning to school, nor does it take into ac-
count the numerous unreported trips. Sixty-
nine individuals are reported to have taken

4

Mi, ior example, the signatures attached to
the Niae Power Treaty of 1923 had meamt any-
thing, the United States and Great Britain
would have checked the violation of the treaty
which Japan first’ committed in the early
ihirties. If Great Britain and the United
States had checked this first violation, the
more recent victations might never -have—ce-

_ curred. made to places from the close vicinity of the
school.
quently visited, with Belmont, Queens, and
Rock Hill tying for second place honors. The’
farthest any deputation traveled at one. time
was to Atlanta.
The diversity of subjects upon which stu-
dents spoke, the opportunity for ministering
in music, the variety of places visited, and

~~ Amother thing that we iook back on and’
sce our mistakes Conceraing is the reason for
fighting the other war. “A war to end wars
We've almost decided that this is im-
possible. Now we are taking sides in a war
to 'proiong the period of peacé between wars.
Perhaps this is @ worthy eause. :

quite clearly that any student on the campus.
of Davidson College could very easily find
some sort of deputation work which would ap-
peal to him and in which he could be of real
active service...

Drop around the “Y"! some time and look
over the prospects.

°

Will we profit by the experience of the past

_ twenty-five years? Can we see our mistakes

—irpolicy-of signing pacts without proper back-

ing of enforcement? Will we have an alli-

ance as was proposed_'by Wilson in 1918?
Time will tell...

: to show vp. or at least this danger avould have

part in this work; and twenty-two visits were

Charlotte churches were most fre-

= the number-af availthle-deputations indicates}

THE DAVIDSONIAN

+ .

Comments

By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Cinema

Vv

“Thursday and Friday, Oct. 9, 10.

kK WA
|... ____ DIVE BOMBER

Errol Flynn, Fred MacMurray,
Ralph Bellamy, Alexis Smith, Rob-
ert Armstrong, Regis Toomey, and
Allen Jenkins.

Although this is essentially an-
other picture of America “getting
ready,” Warners have added a new
twist that makes this perennial avia-
tion-story a very interesting and col-
orful saga of our airforces at work.

Errol Flynn has the part of a
Flight Surgeon and Fred MacMur-
ray plays the Flight Commander. A
feud -between them _comprises_the

between a Flight Surgeon and a
Flight Commander.

William Gargan turns in an out-

standing” performance, while “Ed-|

Thursday, October 9, 1941

The Filth Columnist

By 2???

With numerous guys and gals on
the campus for the pigskin parade,
dope was rather plentiful and on
tHe tasty side. And as usual. fre-
quent rumors have been astir after
sucly a fine week-end. However
some little details of the early part
of last week require specific atten-
tion .so we'll let fly with a little
oi both news and history.

forth

Seen dashing from the

mund Lowe has the other male lead. portals of old Georgia with coat,
Startlet Peggy Motan furnishes the] shirt and tie streaming behind was

romantic interests,

with Frankie] Bob Carter, Phi Delta Theta’s new

Thomas tending the comedy touch.j Blond Blizzard who has the local

Cadets.

£

eet

greater part of the action, including
perhaps the most beautiful aviation
shots ever filmed, made more beau-
tiful by Technicolor.

|

Alexis Smith is a comer, although
her part is small. Ralph Bellamy
and Regis Toomey round out an ex-
cellent supporting cast.

Action for this production is film-
ed at the San Diego Naval Base,
under the permission of Uncle Sam.
| The feature is very timely and in-
formative and is one which will be
, enjoyed by all.

Saturday, October 11 /

eee

FLYING CADETS

|
William -Gargan, Edmund -Lowe,
‘Reggy Moran. Frank Albertson, and

Frankie Thomas.

Basically this picture is very simi-
lar to. “Dive Romber,” in that it is
mainly concerned with National De-
fense. However, this production
presents more of the story of the
| average man in our air forces, while
'“Dive Bomber™ deals’ with the feud

This . feature will be presented
Monday, and perhaps Tuesday.
However, on Tuesday, Stan Laurel
and Oliver Hardy in .their latest

picture, GREAT GUNS, will
Children.
made by press time.

with Mary Martin,

an
No feature had been booked for
press. However Wednesday is Bar-
it will be a 3-star attraction. Watch
Don Ameche, Oscar Levant,

- Wednesday, October 15
‘this date at the time this went to
gain Day and the chances aré that
for it on the advance boards.
GOODBYE,

-Jerome-— Cowan.— GHL-A-RA:E YS ‘
AUNT, with Jack Benny, Edmund
Gwenn, Laird Cregar, and Way
Franciss A YANK IN THE R.

A. F., with Tyrone Power, Betty

Gardiner.

the guest of the theatre for any
performance this week.

‘

In the Grooves a

|. * By JIMMIE MORGAN

——

io. .
i To those who are expecting a

Inediocre program of music at the
Ilomecoming Dances the following
is dedicated: .

xtst—May ~Mince Courtney and
his Duke Ambassadors won the
band contest sponsored by the Uni-
versity of North Carolina in another
of its series of swing contests. Three
orchestras entered the contest,
which was judged by John Ham-
mond, internationally known jazz

in’ Chair.” The excitement is pro-
vided by the sensational negnb
trumpeter, Roy Eldridge, who plays
a solo of unrestricted power and
fecling. The reverse, “Tunin’ Up,”
is just another jump tune.

Billie Holiday, accompanied by
Teddy Wilson's fine small group,
«does an excellent job on two ballads,
“Jim” and “Love Me or Leave Me.”
Billie doesn’t get any pretty flow-
ers from Jim, but she gets orchids

critic and an exctutive officer” of
‘Columbia Records. In an article
in ‘Metronome, prominent music
magazine, Mr. Hammond said of the
Courtney organization:

“Vince Courtney’s band, which
was the only completely undergrad-
uate band of the day, was tops in

every commercial aspect, for the
band had just enough showmanship,
and Courtney was an excellent front
man, with a good ballad voice. It
contained by far the best rhythm
section of any of the three bands,
the best brass, and reeds second
only to Johnson. The drummer,
-Marold -Fletcher, was certainly the
most solid collegian I have yet
heard. He has already received an
‘offer from Bob Chester, I under-
stand, but wisely has chosen to con-
tinue his college career. Because
of-the-band's precision and obvious:
ly superior ensemble qualities, it had
to receive first prize.”

Draw your own conclusions.

— One-of_the most exciting pressings
to appear upon the jazz scene in
quite a while is Gene Krupa’s ver-
sion of Hoagy_Carmachael’s_“Rock-

_'__Only $1.50 Per Year-

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DAVIDSON, N.
<= np

from this reviewer for effortless,
relaxed vocals.

Harry James’ orchestra

great versatility on four new sides:| sion of the year.

Aviation addicts will thrill to some | situation well in hand.

Grable, John Sutton, and Reginald fi

With two of

of, theflight—formations. and ma-jthe local lassies agog he alternates
neuvers -performed by the Flying| very well between Martha and Miss

“X," the latter mecting the Blizzard
often at the Esso station.

Oddity of the week-end was Mott

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 13-14 | Sauvain sitting on the porch of the

KA boarding house with Wilbo.ab-
sent and Snake Sprunt likewise.

IT STARTED WITH_ADAM _| However Sprunt seems to have been

dazzicd by something: He now has
excused cuts due to a temporary
impediment in vision.

Glenn. Terrell with his attractive

be| UNC miss seems well on the.road.
shown especially for the School] She was one of the most fervent
It may be that Davidson | Davidson supporters in the stands.
students will be admitted also, but} Carleton Parsons and his WC heart
no official announcement had been, throb are enjoying much the use of

her car in their jaunts to and from

{the hub of their deals, New Bern.

Question of the week: Where’s
your Phi Mu pin? Leave it to an
alumnus to uncover something new
in the woo world. Paul Baumbar-
ger is back after a hectic week-end
with lipstick not oti but under his
collar ,front to rear. “It’s the latest

Coming soon—KISS THE BOYS in army maneuvers,” was Boom’s

statement which came from hereto-

and fore reliable sources,

Dances coming up soon so the
natural result is a stream of flusho-
-crams. First and the most unique
excuse in history belongs to Archie
Taylor. His date, Nancy O’Neal,
nds it impossible to attend because
she has been chosen to lead the

I would like for John Belk to be Guernsey parade at a milk festival

or cow convention, to be held in
Booneville.

Jim Mann, Rumple's right barrel
romeo of termite fame who wooed
his way in and around the “y”
last year, has wow begun extensive
operations in Charlotte. Watch out
for Sawbuck, Jimmy! Telephone
conversation heard recently : “Geor-
gia." “George? I don't know any
George. Gimme Ox.”

We wonder why Miss Ann Wiley
is so concerned over the new excise
tax on fraternity-jewelry. The mad
mauler from Maryland, “Buzzard”
Council, has become the object of °
observation by our Psychology de-
partment.

’

In case you're_ wondering _how_.
Davidson rates at WC the answer ‘is
tops. Af the informal campus sing
held last Sunday night there were
more requests for “O Davidson”

shan any other song. Who is the guy

that offered an attractive WC coed
the lead in his new Follies of Col-
lege Coeds to begin on-Broadway
soon? : rae

— to ost

5 7

Ginzberg Thomas, the man of
many women but not—for~long;
made many locks during and after
the Carolina game only to have
them picked at the appropriate time.
Tom Bell seems serious about the
whole thing. He's been seen carry-
ing records and other articles down.
Mebane way.

Mack Brewer is having tough
sledding in trying to sidetrack ‘All-
American Paul *Severin from his
position in Vi Johnson's affection.
Reeling dealing Jungle Jim Crook
went to Richmond for another hand
holding, session with his one and.
only, He stopped by Spartanburg
on the way, and adopted a pooch
in High .Point.

’

In on the Dawn Patrol after a
lour t6 Gaffney were Honey Dew |
and Pat Rudolph. Among. other-
things they report a train break-
down ins Gastonia. Jack “Jew”
Clark is ruining convention by mak-
ing a four-sided thing out of the
Sprunt-LaMot-Wilbo triangle.

Any similarity to persons living
or .dead is purely coincidental.

S'long 'til the same time next week.

Fraternities are probably burning
their collective sawdust at this

of their major autumnal problems:
“What are we going to slap on the
front of our lodge for Homecom-
ing?" To those freshmen who are
not-familiar-with the traditions of
the Davidson Homecoming cclebra-
tion let me say a few ,words con-

shows | cerning this first major social occa-

At this time,

_ Down

PAT RUDOLPH

Pat

BY

scattered around the court. The.
national defense or military theme

;moment in an attempt to solve one} which is used. quite often these days

made the Kappa Sigma house look
like an arsenal. The Phi Delts
punned on their name and erected
a “Phi Delta Theater.” All in all,

‘feminine voices summed up the en-

tire affair in their inimitable “It’s
the cutest -thing I’ve ever saw!"
All mofning, when the decorations
are usually still intact, hundreds of

“A Sinner Kissed an Angel,” “You| alumni are urged to come back andj parental, alumnal, facultative, and
Made Me Love You,” “Don’t Take| meet their old classmates, go to aj} feminine feet make the rounds of

Your Love from Me,” and “Duke's; luncheon, listen to a concert, see| the court.

All the“while fraternity

Mixture.” The first three titles are|a football game, and. maybe (this|men dash from one house to the
highlighted by Dick Haymes’ vocal,| usually applies to the younger set) | next saying, “Let's see what the

Mr. James’ trumpet, and the string | go to a couple of dances. Davidson’s} Rho Dammit Rho’s have.”

quartet, respectively, while the last,

nine social fraternities, to da their

Then
they curse-(in a friendly spirit)

of more jazz .content, shows off, bit, spend a maximum of ten dol-j| their neighbor’s more brilliant orig-

good soloists.

The best of- Benny Goodman’s
new releases is “Anything,” a goo
tune arranged well by Eddie Sauter
and played well by the Goodmen.
Benny’s clarinet and Mel Powell's
Piano steal the show on this side.
‘The reverse is another fine Sauter

arrangement, “From One,Love ‘to| ly center around a principal theme
Another.” The tune itself, however, | or -ideamwitttrp

is weak.

Also’ recommended this week are

Glenn .Miller's‘I'm Thrilled,"-Beb-.

Chester’s “A New Shade of Blue,”
-Count—Basie's—“Diggin’ “for Dex,”
Charlie Spivak’s “To Your Heart's

Content,” and Claude Thornhill’s
“Paradise’X————_—=SY

v

. Don’t Wait! Subscribe Now to
THE DAV

IDSONIAN

lars for crepe paper, wooden framé,
and paint plus several thousand
dollars worth of thought and ef-
fort, and attempt,in their small
way to emphasize thejr welcome to
returning alumni and their venge-
ance to the. visiting football team. .-

The decorations themselves usual-

to this mad world in some smoke-
filled, joke-filled, dormitory room
after some several hours of concen-

trated bulling, or possibly in a

erowded—tavern-.on some sloppy,’

limber Saturday night. Maybe it
was suggested by a helpful wait-
ress or busboy, or by an advertising
man in Charlotte. Some of the
themes of last year’s decorations
which will give you an idea of the
scope were: the prize-winning Beta
Theta Pi exhibit which centered
around’ “My Old Kentucky Home.”
Davidson played Centre College of
Danville, Kentucky that day. Re-

|| plete with mint _juleps_on_the_va-

Send Name and Address to

randah and cotton fields, the Betas
did themselves proud. Sigma Alpha
Epsilon had a large replica of the
famous Davidson water tank mount-
ed on their roof with an optimistic
football score painted thereon. There
were several Monte Carlo gambling
devices which-tended to show-that|
Davidson would win by large od&

inality and execution. Occasionally
they are seen dashing back to their
own house to drape some more
crepe or to replace quickly and
sloppily some ‘vital part of their
decorative plan which has collapsed,
either from the wind's velocity or

because some “dumb freshman”
awkwardly ripped: their Main strip
OE a aa

This year, thanks to the inaugural”
program, the judging by the smiling
members of the faculty, will be de-
layed until after lunch. Previously
the judging has begun at ten o'clock
in the morning and has caused the
decorations committee or in some
cases, the entire chapter, to arise at
some ungodly hour on a morning
when they could have slept, to throw
up their fragile brainchildren.

Who kndéws --what this year’s
Homecoming Decorations will hold
for the interested student body and
faculty? ‘What bright ideas are
couched in the acsthetic minds of
the -new—crop -of—éomimittee chait-—
men? All we can do is to ‘wait
patiently until about Friday after-
noon, October 17th, when we will
witness the opening stages of con-
struction. Sunday morning, Oc-
tober 19th, the Fraternity Court will
be.a maze of dirty, littered crepe,

‘uridecoratéed wooden frames,

and tired faces.
