THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSONIAN  Deesents
IELLET Ss -.+ = += freatures

Down Fraternity Court CINEMA
i their, dates, and a number of girls, COMMENTS

were welcomed by the fraternity.
A few brothers found their way. to By CLARENCE LEGERTON

other destinations for waek-end
engagements.

Page Two Thursday, April 23, 1942

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

oa,
Editorials

Member

Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collesiate Disest

The Filth Columnist

and the beast ... RALPH WIL-
LIAMS, the Kampus Kid of the
season, accompanied COLIN
SHAW SMITH to Warm Springs,
Georgia, where our “Yseman” put
on a magic show. As usual, SHAW

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Phi Gamma Delta
The Phi Gam house was buzzing with excite-
ment this week-end. The terrace which was built
last fall, was initiated this week-end with a supper
and party, Sunday evening.
The Darby memorial ping pong table was a
Also the dates joined in a soft

Swan song! This is the last time
that your rascally, rough and ready,
reporter rides rough-shod over the
ruined reputations of the riff-raff.
We are to be succeeded by newer
and younger talent. After a year

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

Thursday, April 23
THE REMARKABLE ANDREW
ee,
Brian Donlevy, William Holden,

Taking in the senior formal-girl-
‘break at Converse in Spartanburg

great attraction.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES ball game.

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
2.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

. Par °

* National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.

Cmicaco - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

———————>

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at
Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

———_—_—_—_

ED ERWIN ......-.......-..............EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN CRICHTON..........-.---_. BUSINESS MANAGER
EDITORIAL STAFF
Uacy= Meleanicicicssciecaidecccecl gt apescccd Assistant Editor
Henry McIntosh... --.-Associate Editor
Jimmy Fulcher......202i20.....-.2..........-Associate Editor
Mac Jeffries. Managing—Editor
Howell MOfrOWl ss sess ee Managing Editor

Legh ScottyZ-
Jim Stimsorr.--
Deane Watson
Leonard Pharr
Bill Barker

sitetedsebaccceupdsscrceee Managing suitOL
-----Managing Editor
Managing Editor
.---Sports. Editor
Sauce succascescasentait, rnotographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Galhotin- Hipp poss elec ee -Assistant Business Manager
Peter.cY OUNG.--.- <4 .c<catdGanesahnn ooas Advertising Manager
Joe Martin...__ Circulation Manager
Buck McNeely -Circulation Manager
Tvey. Stewartin See Sess ---Collections Manager

Save A Life

As we glance through the” headlines
or listen spellbound to radio war news
and heroic stories of our armed forces;
we of Davidson are almost daily over-
whelmed with feelings of inadequacy,
perhaps of shame, that while boys our
own age give their lives for their and
our beliefs, we are able. for the present
at least, to give nothing in any practical
sense,

Many of us would like to feel that

practical, to help in this, the greatest
crisis in our nation’s history.

For this—reason, The Davidsonian,
in conjunction with the college Depart-
ment of Student Health Service, is spon-

The dates were Johnnie Terrell, Nancy Gaston,
Gladys Hartsell, Carolyn Lassiter, Caroline Park-
er, Helen Wilson, Sally Moore, Dora Lilliband,
Isabel Linker and Frugess Petrovich
Moscow. NevC. No one knows who

was or who she was with.

Brother Williams went to Warm Springs, Ga.,
while Al King went to V. M. I. and visited the
Brother North-
cross spent a pleasant week-end in Chatham, Va.,

Fijis at Washington and Lee.

where Chatham Hall is located.

Tony Darby and Bill Summers went to a Junior
On athletic trips were

dance in Winston-Salem,

Brothers Taylor and Nimmons on the track team
and Brother Cavert on the Golf team.
Monday night James Allen French

mally pledged by the fraternity.

Pi Kappa Phi

The past week-end found —-almest
chapter “dealing” in various parts of the country.

Brother~McCrea had the honor of
“deal” by traveling to Atlanta, Ga.

deal wasn't the longest, Brother Gaither “hared”
in. more places than anyone else. He
Newton, Hickory, Concord, Queéns,and Converse.

Brothers Robertson and Fisher traveled to Kan-
napolis while Brother Robinson spent the week-
3rothers Evans and\Bum-
barger Spent a zippy week at Athens, Ga. and
Brothers Lineberger and Wilkinson and Pledge
Birmingham hit the high spots of Greenville and

end in Derita, N: C.

Asheville” Brother Larkin” tooked

terests in Raleigh and Washington, N. C.

Pledge Floyd spent the week-end in that town
of supermen, Woodruff, S. C.; while Pledge Brad-
ley tried out a new technique in Greensboro and
Bobby Herring dated at E. C. T. C
we are doing somthing real, something eWhile “Shorty” Campbell operated in  Winston-

Winston.

Salem.

Brother Armstrong traveled to Gastonia while
Brothers Morris Nivan and Hipp basked in the

sun at Catawba Beach, Cornelius.

Kappa Sigma

The usual group.of brothers went |

were: Brothers Fuller, Harrison
Wilson, and Carrow. John Crich-
ton and Mac Bruce attended the
tennis matches at Pinehurst, and
Bob Whaling and Frank Treat
spent the week-end in Winston-
Salem.

Kappa Alpha

With Brothers Wilson-and- King
“showing” the way in typical fash-
ion, Kappa Alpha activities con-
tinued to blaze. :

Brother McLean took off for a
week-end of varied entertainment,
Brother Ike Belk tripped down to
Chattanooga, and Hank Watt tried
Charlotte again.

Washburn journeyed to Wilming-
ton for a visit home}*while Brothers
Sprunt and John Belk were in S.
C. with the track team and Hender-
son buzzed around in the Green
Hornet. The rest of the limbers
worked out the effects of previous
week-ends in preperation for the
Spring Frolics.

Delta Theta Pi

In the spring, young men quickly
head for institutions of learning for
the” other seéx> Brother “Spike”
Mebane went to Sullins this week-
end and reports every girl there is
beautiful. Bob Cushman journeyed
to Randolph-Macon and David Yo-
cum visited Sweetbriar.

Brothers Frank Mebane and
Charlie Upchurch were in Athens
with the golf team and Elliot White
was with the track team.

Brother Al Winn visited in Spar-
tanburg and Brother Prichett spent
the week-end in  Gastonia__with
Brother Rush Smith. Brother Jack
Philips traveled to his home in
Jacksonville, Florida. :

Brother Crawford Wheelér spent
the week-end in Hickory and
Brother Jim Howell was in Atlanta.

Brother Steve Thurston, who re-
ports to the Army soon, visited here
this week-end.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The campus’ was almost entirely

vacated by the chapter last week-
end, the usual round of getting back

Ellen Drew, and Montagu Love.

This story of a lad who is sus-
tained through the ghost of An-
drew Jackson
is a rare bit of
novelty. Wil-
liam Holden is
the small town
boy who~ fights
every politician
in town for the
sake of honesty,
but when things
become too in-
volved the ghost
of his hero, Andrew Jackson,
comes to his rescue. Ellen Drew
as the girl who stands by Holden
thréugh thick and thin, and Brian
Donjey as Jackson are both very
fine.

Legerton

Friday and Saturday
April 24 and 25
RIDE 'EM COWBOY
see

Abbott and Costello, Dick Foran,

Anne Gwynn, and Johnny Mack

Brown.

This is another second-rate com-
edy with a pair-of first-rate com-
ediens. Nevertheless, Abbott and
Costelo manage to score again as
a pair of peanut venders dt a New
York rodeo who go out West to
a Dude Rach, where they meet
Dick Foran, and consequently Anne
Gwynne. / Their escapdes with the
Indians furnish most of the humor,
what little there is. The Merry
Macs seem to have been~added as
an after thought.

Monday and Tuesday
April 27 and 28
THE MALE ANIMAL
eee

Henry Fonda, Olivia deHavilland,
and Joan Leslie.

Hank Fonda turns in a‘ top-notch
performance to make this feature
one of the outstanding comedies
of the year, ably supported by
beautiful Olivia deHavilland and
capable Joan Leslie. Hank is tops
as a young college professor who
marries the campus co-ed. and

of keyhole-peeping and rumor-lis-
tening, we are about to hang up
our typewriter and retire to a farm
in New England, to wait. until
these who have been cut most se-
verely, and possibly unjustly, have
forgotten and forgiven all.

But to get to the business at
hand. The past week-end for some
reason was unusually quite. Pos-
sibly the lull before the storm, the
storm being Spring Frolics this
coming week-end.

Saturday at noon a battered “A”
was seen roaring off to eb north-
ward. It’s occupants were BILL
CAMPBELL, JOHN NORTH-
CROSS, JOHN WRIGHT, DON
BANKS, and ALBERT KING.
These hearties had as their goal
Lynchburg, with all it’s enticing
wonders. Their plans were nipped
in the bud at Danville, however,
when the “A” showed signs of
giving up the ghost and with the
death-rattle in it’s tin throat, had
a break-down. Here the doughty
BANKS continued on his via the
thumb route, no fool he. After
repairs, the tin horse again show-
ed signs of life and the remaining
four continued for another nine
miles, whereupon the “A” balked
for good. Again the call of the
open road lured and KING and
WRIGHT sped away, leaving two,
who spent a rousing and-hilarious
week end in some remote Virginia
village, wistfully thinking of Ran-
dolph-Macon thrill-hill, and Sweet-
briar.

LONG-JOHN BELK was cele-
brating in Spartanburg when he
learned of the forthcoming en-
gagement of his O. A. O.... After
a nip and tuck struggle, LEGS
KELLY bested JEW CLARK for
priority rights on one JULIA
BRIDGES. Legs leads by a nose,
but there may be further develop-
ments MOOSE WALLACE
gave an exhibition of the globe-
trotting type of dealing by zening
to G-boro Friday night, thence to
re-appear at the Converse dances
on Saturday. MASON is squiring
FRANCES FLEMING to the

wow'ed ’em, even to the extent of
dating up one of the Warm Springs’
nurses, Obviously, the big Georgia
moon chased all thoughts of PRI-
CILLA from his curly little head.

And, speaking of faculty mem-
bers, SAM WEBB was also a mem-
ber of this expedition as far as
Atlanta presumably on_ business.
However, we know that SAM, like
SHAW, is in the market for a
steady, so maybe he combined pleas-
ure with business... The S. A, E.’s
had a golfing party Sattidy nite,
at. which time HACK did some
super-snaking on SOUTHGATE
JONES. SOUTHGATE held his
own, and CLAUDE slithered away,
hissing . .. BUDDY CARSON es-
corted a 19 year old divorcee who
“headached” home early, only to be
seen. some two hours later at the
Tavern in different company .. .
ED LUCAS motored to the road-
house, only. to run into. difficulty
with a state patrolman, who, lack-
ing an arrest all day, made up for
lost time by slapping approximately
three on ED. It seems that LUKE
had borrowed a license for the
excursion, but the patrolman, no
ignoramus he, had spotted the fact
that the rolling 'reck had only one.
This of course, led to complications
concerning registration cards, etc.
Looks like LUKE” finish Davidson
by Correspondence . SPIKE
MEBANE, RED BURKE, BUDDY
THOMPSON, and JACK RICH-
ESON were among those to hit the
Sullins campus for the week-end,
partly to scout about for potential
dates for the forthcoming “battle
of bands.” RED complained that
the first three to get dates staked
claim on the three dating parlors,
leaving the rest to freeze ‘their
little dates off on the lawn.

And so ends the last Monday
night labor. To the many whom
your conscienceless reporter has
overheard say, “The dope- column
ain't holding much dope” we have
only_to -apologize, and say that
if you can find a way to have
a good filth column as well as ‘a
censor, let us know. It’s an impos-
sible combination.

soring what we hope will be an all-out
answer to the call of the:Red Cross for
blood to be prepared as plasma for the
wounded.

High Point homes. These included Brothers Amos,
Millis, Short, Simmons, Marsh, and Rochell.

Wilbo Carter, Bob Grimsley, Jim Davis, and
Wileman Ehly went to Greensboro and _yicinity.
Brother Sutton journeyed” east to” Pinehurst and
Fayetteville.

Spring Set, this being the second And so, if anything turns up—
time he has thus scored. Beauty “spank: it . :-.

SLY ME

spends most of his time from then
on trying to keep up with her. The
picture reaches a_hilariouspeak
when Hank’s old class-mates re-
turn for a reunion.

Wednesday's program consists

into the swing of things following
the cfack period after Spring Va-
cation.

___ Those wandering off the campus
and into the Queen City were
Brothers Martin, Maxwell, Parks,

Such a movement should be of vital

interest to every member of the student Among those attending the dance at Converse

body. Even those who will never be
asked to take a life for their country
should welcome an opportunity to save
a life. Those who expect to see actual

were Brothers Taylor, McCoy, and Kelly.
W. Lacy, B. Lacy and Williams» went with the

track team to Furman and P. C.

Longest trip of the week was pulled by Jim
Crook who took in a dance at Swathmore College

Bruner, and Pledges Farrar, Turner,
and Anderson.

Brother Elder and Pledge Shel-
ton made off for Rock’ Hill, re-
turning with the story of having
seen hundreds of beautiful girls.

of a double feature, with the same
bargain: price.

COMING: SONG OF THE
ISLANDS, with Betty Grable.
ROXIE HART, with Ginger Rog-

“By BILL LYMAN

On the Return to Rugged Sim-
plicity in Respect to Modern Dress,
or, Tricky Dick Goes to the Ball:

ing white handkerchief, of cotton-
ese material. Gladioli wore a cor-
sage of orchids.” In place of a belt
she has a.strip of-skin showing. No

Present day alarmist occasionally
deplore the lack of clothes with
which modern

I would like for Sam Haysto be young ladies in
, the guest of the theatre for any thi
feature—this week.

Brothers Miller, Pendleton, G.
Peters Yarborough, Wilson, and Holland were in
Charlotte :

Brother Hodges went to Greens- ¢fs.
boro, accompanied by Brother Hen-
derson who altered his course for

Phi Delta Theta once, thus being the second to make
Most of the brothers rested ‘up over the week- ° Ripley’s Column.

service have an even more personal in- in New York. pleats or excess material of any
terest in the measure.

sort exists, causing a decolette rage.

Tricky Dick» is immaculately
garbed in the latest full dress eve-
-i--sning suit. No longer, however, is
the suit referred to as “tails.” In-
stead of the former extravagant
custom of having two posterior
elongations, there is in 1944 but one,

Attention is called to the letter from
the medical staff on the front page in
regards to this plea. Details of CHEIACE™caderees tHecdanhen fest weecuhitue saw oeaihe
ual collection of the blood are incomplete, wilder cats left for distant points. |

‘aucous jit- .

geraadorn —
(i.e. reveal)
| themselves, par-
ticularly at:

but will be released as soon as. arrange- srothers Banks and Wright went to Lynchburg
8 sa ;

ments have been made with technicians t® visit Randolph-Macon for a while. Brother

in Charlotte. ; Potter went to Atlanta to see Marjorie star*in a

CAMPUS CAMERA

dances. But in ; which is three inches wide.
i : eee high school play, and to a Grand Opera. a
Registration and preliminary tests for + Brother Westall went to Asheville to see the actuality they. Of course there is no vest; neither
all volunteers are being instigated as of _ little woman and Brother Gus and Bill McLean oe tele ney are there any lapels nor more than

what actual pre-
ponderance con-
cerning the evening dress exists,
when one considers the - present
trend toward curtailing clothes.

went to Lenoir to attend their sister's wedding.
Brothers Pierce, McIntosh, Emerson and Oglesby
went to Raleigh and Owens, Dew, Maloney and

tonight at the infirmary, and all students
and faculty members interested are
urged to report there as soon as possible Chapman spent quite a wild one at Spartanburg.
so that the doctors may start as soon as Little and Hendee operated in Greenville and
possible. : Tate and McIver went to their homes for the

We would like to make it understood eee
that this is definitely a volunteer drive.
Only those who are physically able will

three inches of sleeves, For some
inexplicable reason the government
has allowed man more material for
formal wear than woman, since
Dick’s form-fitting pants extend
two inches below his knees, For a
shirt he wears a formal white tur-
tle-neck sweater.

Bill Lyman

Today the alarmist, dn attending
a dance, says, “Tsk. Tsk. Tsk. I
can remember 35 years ago when
it was daring for a girl to show her
ankles.” In two years, however,
the same person will say, “What is
the world coming to? I can re-
member back in 1942 when clothes
cqvered most of the body!”

Sigma Phi Epsilon —
With Spring Frolics just around the corner, : ,
be siloeaca Halnee 4 many of the brothers contented themselves with mage ' %)/ a 4 $
0 participate, and students minor deals. However Charlie Henderson_man- ‘ teen
THE 3000 FRATERNITY AND

under twenty-one years of age will be aged to leave Wednesday on an extended week- ' SORORITY HOUSES IN
. - : aes F ; es “rs 000, THE AVERAGE WORTH # :
advised to secure their parents’ permis- end. He was joined in Raleigh on Friday by Jim e A HOUSE |S 28,118.04 /

sion, Fulcher “and “Jerk! Behrman and the.trio at- FRATERNITY. HOUSE
tended the Interfraternity Conference held at N. C. FURNISHINGS

A very vivid and emotional picture of ‘State. “ALONE COST

a soldier lying pale and weak ina cheer- “Fred

less field hospital, dying for want of a

pint of your blood that could save him,

could easily be painted. However, we
do not wish to “high pressure” anyone

~—into-a-movement in which they have no traveled to Winthrop for a Saturday night escap-

interest. ade. Price Gwynn and Rush Winchester went to

the same—old_place(seelast-week’s column) and
Nevertheless, we cannot overlook the did the same old things.

opportunity for service that this call AES Venn :
igma Alp Ppsilon
presents. We .want to urge NATNY able- The highlight for the week-end was a lawn party
bodied student to join in this plea for

2 ° staged by the newly-initiated brothers for the
plasma, this campaign for corpuscles, seniors on the golf course Saturday evening. Mrs.
this drive to save a life,

Baird furnished a delightful feed-for brothers and

Zhe greatest difficulty that will
confront future clothes strategists
will arise when all pockets are elim-
inated in men’s clothing. Of course
there is the Possibility of man car-
tying a pocketbook as woman now

does, but such an idea is somehow
distatesful.

Let us look in on a. Davidson
dance in 1944 with, say Tricky Dick
O'Hair, who will then be a senior
(if he is not drafted in the in-

Morton attended the Junior-Senior at
Converse, while Joe Bivins entertained Miss Eddy
Lawrence over the week-end, Bill Loy won him-
self laurels by taking two first at Furman and
P. C., while on the track trip.

Clarence Legerton, Dick “Miller, and Jack-Davis—

One of the most ingenious sol-
tions that has come to our attention
terim). is the Handkerchief Pouch Plan.

Tricky’s date, Gladioli Queen, will By this plan bills, change, identifi-
be charming in_the latest style in cation cards, cigarettes, -etc., are
evening wear. If one were to read Placed in one’s handkerchief, which
a society column write-up of the | is folded up at the ends to form a
event it would run something like Pouch effect. The four corners
this, “Dancing with super Dick re then tied arouhd the belt, a strip
O’Hair we spotted one of the dresses Of rawhide.
of the evening on Gladioli Queen.
Her gown was of black gingham,
the skirt extending to three inches
above the knees with a tattered
effect at the hem, and matching
anklets. Her accessory was a flow-

_ Simplicity is the keynote of war-
time modernity. No longer need
the old guard disdain the extrava-
Bances of youth. We only wonder

what will be the vogue in bathing
suits!

