=

carcuat | Wildcat Sports (“=:,,

DAVIDSONI Wednesday April 1, 1942

K.Ave Leading

, Cat Catawba Fracas
Goring. Sorts AGP RE ater ies poe VOC pam

Tuesday on the home diamond against the visiting Catawba k Sigs Second = ACHEAGHI VALS vs Canola Haas. Opens A New Season
e

By BUTCH PHARR Page Four THE

SPRING SPORTS SCHEDULE

nine. After this, games, matches, and-meets will be coming
off every week ‘til the beginning of exams. The tennis and Apr. 1—Track, Varsity vs. South Carolina, Home, 2:30 P. M.

f te; are leaving orrow ot air Spring lick j F p f : R 3—Tennis, Varsity vs. Emory, away.
golf teams are leaving temorrow on their annual § pring Holiday With about half of the tourna 3_Golf, Varaity va. TheCitadal; away: | or ase a ua
trips ad are hoping to retten with good records. Both" teams |ment already played, the hot Kap- 4— Tennis, Varsity vs. Georgia, away.

suffered sévérely by graduation losses and are depending} pa Alpha’s nine is leading the In- 6—Tennis, Varsity vs. Florida, away.

ainly wot ‘rial to roundsaut > squads. Dick Shore | terfrate y Volley Tourname 7—Golf Varsity vs. Florida, away. Ck : ; :
salle on new Hels rik to reund au the quads. aa k Sh re oy oe Volleyball Hehe ae qottanis Vics ie Gate, iy : The: Davidson Wildeats—inaug-
é \ ‘r Spr cen ver one and two, men trom last year’s] with five games won and none lost. ; ) - : ~
ind Miller Sproul aie epee ad - < : i: hici ; I] ss : es eee 8—Golf, Varsity vs. Georgia, away. Varsit S uad urated their 1942 baseball season
netters, teamed up for a hot doubles combination which wi S. A. E's Third 9—Tennis, Varsity vs. C. of Charleston, away. einai cha
be hard to replace. Missing from the golfing squad will 9—Baseball, Varsity vs. Lenoir Rhyne, Home. uesday when the Cats met the

; 4 5 : Running a close second are the . : B Coll H ° , ; ;

be Granny Sharpe, last season's captain who showed up well in ‘ ‘ 10—Tennis, Varsity vs. Boston Co lege, Home. Catawba Indians on Richardson
‘ ; an a . aor nf ire eae, ree rye payee) % Rnwere Kappa Sigs who have only lost 10 Baseball, Varsity vs. North Carolina Home. O e m our field.” Ed Lucas was tt : :

1e Southern Intercollegiate Ti é st I > fone game out of the six played and 11—Golf, Varsity vs. The Citadel, Home. ‘eld. Ed Eugas was the starting

Harris McReynolds, and Jack Abels, who were all consistent hi Sie Slendind Io ae 11—Track, Varsity vs. V. P. I., away. . Davidson's varsity golf team is} hurler for the Cats in their initial
that to the leading K. “A.’s w : i
players, ' R 11—Track, Frosh vs. V. P. 1., away. preparing to leave on an extended ;
; heat them in a two out of three 14—Baseball, Frosh vs. Coneord, Home. : encounter of the year.
Opening Track Meet in’ the cricuial match of the tour- 15—Golf, Varsity vs. Vanderbilt, away. tour of the south this week tO, Varsity vs. Frosh
The track season opens today against the South ney, “Behind. the two -leaders- are 15—Baseball, Varsity vs. Duke,.Home take on several colleges during the : : :

Carolina Gamecocks, allowing Coach Whittle one the 5S, A. E’s with three won and PHS fovea pe Wiss Piste et haiiata away. spring holidays. In preparation for the tilt, the
glimpse of his team under fire before they leave for the two lost in their five games. The 17=Tracke Fao Vi Revnelds Hialy Howe, 415 P.M Emory First reaatiee St! : Hip lth He eh
holidays. n interesting side light during the meet Phi Gams and the S.-P. E.’s are in 17—Golf, Varsity at Southern Intercollegiate Tournament. heir first match is with Emory a se - ad ae Tes oe mae
will be the dual between the two Lacy brothers who 1 tie for fourth place each having 18—Baseball, Frosh vs. Oak Ridge Home. Golleyedsienmdao: andi treme Aleve no score was not kept, the titlt was
will represent Davidson in both the 100 and 220 yard von two while dropping two. Pe He MAL we teeesitenan ae , they woltd the Univeeiiycot Blotids undet regular game conditions.
dashes. They stand about even in the time trials DESI UU Aarhid CUEEAUEETIS TTR one : r | Coach Shepard used four of his

Tie For Fifth 20—Baseball Wofford vs. Varsity, Home. for a dual match. On the way back

20—Baseball, Frosh vs. Albemarle American Legion, away. varsity hurlers guring the _fray

though Bill has had 10.2 second 100 so far which is

the golfing Cats will meet the

better than any of Brother Ben‘s times. Arch Taylor There's another tie for the fitth 21—Baseball, Varsity vs. N. C. State away. Galt eRelot chan n tue ancar while none of the freshmen pitchers
has been switched from the 100 to the 400 besides his position between the Betas and the 22—Baseball, Frosh vs. Concord Hi, away. Bt ich Qe see ee oMSeorgia! were used. Ed/Major started for
: ; ‘ : ‘ : $ Phi Delts with two wins and three 24—Baseball Varsity vs. Wofford, away, and then return! home the varsity against Lefty Paul
hurdling duties, and will perform with Bill Loy in this as - - ae . "ae : Bilis 25—Baseball, Varsity vs. Morris Field, away. lie qualify; fe fice. aiINeeeoand hick MIR he
event. bok shah bed oh Ue Vkiadt Ms anti 25—Baseball, Frosh vs. Albemarle American Legion, Home. te-qualtying rounds showed a}- . : CASH ott) rs a a__were
Golf Tournament ind the Pi Kapps are battling with 25—Track, Belmont Abbey vs. Frosh. Home. close fight between Captain Pete] relieved. Bob McLeod finished for

eich other to get out of the cellar, 28—Golf, Varsity vs. North Carolina away. Cavert and Tommy Bumbarger for|the freshmen while Mac Morris

Attention was centered last week around the Annual North

wa t ; ut the Pikag ate dhead, having 28—Baseball, Varsity vs. North Carolina, away.
and. South Golf irnament held in three of the large cities

‘ i . the numbersone shot with Bum-| wound up the game for the varsity.
28 Baseball, Frosh vs. Albemarle American Legion, Home. 9

Res ‘ a Z won one game over the luckless F ad barger winning: out by one stroke With the regular. season under-
of North Carolina. The tournament isn’t played on the same], 28—Track, Varsity vs. Presbyterian, away. - aan - at “at Ij ; F
‘ourse, as is usually tl ‘aca. “AUkiLea ay, Hh Thy rayce teak Pi Kapps. 28—Track, Frosh vs. Presbyterian Frosh, away. on the fifty-four hole total. His}way the Cat lineup is practically
ee ree, ; 1 ey the ca e. uta te rnatec bet ween the links Siuielisgs 29—Baseball, Varsity vs. Duke, away. total for the six rounds was 229] settled. Red Bethea and Paul Kiss-
a ne Irs SHeVie., and Feehs boro 4 be A ws ks > = i i i . . , or. ? : ‘ . .

inehurst, ( ea meensboro, with prizes for the 30—Golf, Varsity vs. Army (away) tentative, Tennis. to Cavert’s total of 230. This is} ling will handle the catching duties
winners at each one: “Though the master-stroker Ben Hogan | Team Won Lost 30—Baseball, Frosh vs. Oak Ridge, Home, ifr t f about 38° f. h | whilé’ Captain Bob Carter and Bob
° < ; f 7 : : : e ro . * i average of abo J reach - Lapti a 4
was there in full. force the gallery gathered mainly around|K. A’s. ----=c--------- 5 0 30—Golf, Varsity vs. North Carolina away. ( orca

nine holes which should stand up| Smith will be’6n first. The loss of

such pros as Nelson. Wood, Heafner, and PLA RMhY Siva Siar hs, SRG eo eG 1 May 1—Golf, Varsity vs. Duke away. pretty well against the coming com-|Red Burke, who quit the squad
W hich shows that the skill of the golfér-isn't Abb LANE tepdors|[Sh aS TOS ey 6} 2 1—Tennis, Varsity vs. Navy (tentative), away. TE i recently will put Dickie Phillips
portional to the gallery he draws, Rather than \relitGG [Met 1s | PERL snonore rts meester zs] 2 SPERM vs. Guilford away. mn econd while Owens and Ma
mechanical and nearly perfect shots of Ben Hogan probably |S. P. E.’s..------ eh) 2 2—Track, Varsity vs. State, Home, 1:30 P. M. Mebane, Upchurch: Tie isnseoaene ia :
the greatest golfer of this decade, the gathers around fell Ws Retds  tcsscse Soeenee se 3 onerat Vise gaan ane! eA na Tieing for the number, three and ue ale CUe eee
eae § » the gat S..d : OW —Tennis, Varsity vs. George Washington (tentative), away. § : Sid Daffi x oi
like; Snead who combine their skill with personality and|Phi Delts, -.-.----... 2 3 4—Baseball, Varsity vs. Catawba, away. four positions behind Cavert and] Sid Daffin and Jack Clark, both
comedy, S Bi eastcin ace kta ees 1 5 epee apoth vs. Te ayanaae ( Bumbarger are Frank Mebane and back ee season will be in the
: fea ene 0 5 aseball, Varsity vs. Guilford, Home. The Wen Brera hres an - outer gardens again while Butch
Fraternity Volleyball Pi Kapps: ------th----- : 7—Golf, Varsity vs. Washington and Lee away. . hart \ Renukehy: ; eeu peas = Caldwell has the ea slot for the
The K. A.’s look like easy winners of the current areata 9—Golf, Southern Conference Tournament. 242 on the 54 qualifying holes. Bob |=
fraternity volleyball tournament having already won o Begaball’ eae Field, Home. Gaither made -the “alternate spot | Other outfield spot.
their first five starts without much difficulty. Aiding Net ] eam On HCBRtaTL cas ee Reutty on the team but only four men will Freshmen Squad
in the cause of the K. A.’s are Cam Wilson, Davis 12—Baseball, Lenoir Rhyne vs. SVaeHliVe Rwy: i donee ne pil alsa es The freshmen’ will have their
Kern ste tty Patterson; and.Charlie Watt. The H lid AC 1 14 and 15—Track Southern Conference Meet. Missing from this ‘year’s squad] opener several days after the Spring
Kapp Sigs are running a close sceond and Lavaca O U ay rip 15—Baseball, Varsity vs. State, Home. are all four of last year’s varsity holidays. While the pitchers have
good chance of catching them if the leaders should TI mae ill leave Friday (All baseball games 3:30 P. M.) ream’ Wit) Eete, Cavert being the|inat been tested@asl yet, the rest
drop a few of the remaining games. Starring for the l he-tennis teani will cave riday, only returning letterman. of th squad has rounded into shape.
second place team is “Wrong Way” Taylor Squatty April 3, on its annual Seuthern Ten- | —--——— Ce
* ° ’ i Tour x ieorgia anc
Sauires, Dick Kelly, Bob Amos, Bob Currie, and Shep — |i" Jou" through “Georgia and
Booth. ‘lorida

Georgia Tech First

The first team to .be’ met will
be Georgia Tech in Atlanta on the

Cat Cindermen Meet third. Following this on the fourth

the team is matched against The

MaePeawe

70 for You

South Carolina Here Atlanta, sore Tiveee's satisfaction in knowing that the 6124 nf P83 me 4 4 =

Georgia Evening Colege also of

Over the week-end they will] Revenue tax you pay on every pack of twenty

y) ‘a journey on down into Florida te} ¢igarettes is doing its bit for Uncle Sam
n Season S Opener meet, two universities there.. First

on the schedule is The University And youll get complete smoking

S of Florida on the sixth. Members ° ° 6 Ff
; Faced by a Tevengeful South | ( entral High of Charlotte has been} of the team making the trip are: satisfaction in Chesterfield’s famous blend
Carolina squad in their~first dual cancel d*the —_Wildkittens —are|John Crichton Captain; Gene Sut of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. This

meet today, Davidson's trackmen|
buckle down to the task of repeat-|
ing last years smashing 76-50 yic-|™#tch with the V. P. 1. frosh.

rounding into-shape for an April 11 ton; Craig Schmidt; Buck Archer;

superior blend is tops in everything you
like best in a cigarette. It is definitely

and Lyman Parrigan.

tory and sending the Gamecocks | Coach Spearman has been working
back to Columbia a beaten team | hard with his charges, and the lead M. H. GOODRUM MILDER, far COOLER and lots BETTER-TASTING,
Hurdlers Strong jing candidates appear to be as fol- Tr Chesterfiel s toda Vy
Led by Captain Williamson eh s 100 yard dash, Pendleton, AND COMPANY ‘ ve id d A See why millions
Arch Taylor in thee hurdles. the | Yarborough, and Wills; 220 yard : say: You can t buy
Wildcats prasent a smooth and bal-| dash, Yarborough, George Peters f ; a better C1 arette ,
anced aggregation, and should prove|and Bill Dunn; 440 MeAlfister. “A Full Line of Quality g Sorin

Merchandise At

tough competition throughout. the| Bingham; &80, Potter and Ennett: ‘
Reasonable Prices.”

season. The strength .of the in-| mile, Byrd, H. Belk, and Grimsley;
vaders, on the other hand, is untried. | broad jump, Pendleton, and Peters;

They look most powerful in s} high jump, Peters; and in the. field » oa

hed Hin the eu eeeer svat Sines Davidson, N. C.
dashes and weights, where speed-| events, Pendleton, “Roach, Ritfe:
sters Mac Riley and “Scooter’| and Kerr. :

Rucks, and powerful Joe Krivonak,
with his three foot shoulders hold
Frorihy Thursday, April 2

Bill Lacy, Ben Lacy, and Hugh “VANISHING VIRGINIAN”

Sprunt stack up favorably against
the.’Cocks in the hundred, where ———_o—____

Maclver’ Riley and Tommy “Atta- Friday and Saturday, April 3 and 4
way look strongest. At 220 yards, t

the two Lacys and Sprunt again “CAPTAIN OF THE CLOUDS”

represent the Cats, while the vis- JAMES CAGNEY
itors will offer Riley, Rucks and e
Attaway.
Bill Loy and Arch Taylor look Monday and Tuesday, April 6 and 7

strongest in the 440 while Orr, “TWO-FACED WOMAN”

Rucks and Attaway offer compe-
GRETA GARBO

tition.
Distance Men EE Tea nah ae pen
John Belk, Nimmons and Cop- Wednesday, April 8

pedge face a trio of Carolinians “FRISCO LILL”
along the half-mile course, and the 27 ee
-latter two, along with White, carry Thursday, April 9
the,Red and Black in the mile. fe .
Nichols, Parks, Long and Kerr are KATHLEEN
entered for the gruelling two mile: ————
With Glenn Terrell and Dayey Friday and Saturday, April 10 and 11
Spencer showing the way Davidson ‘6s ’ ”
should rack up- more. than a few FLEET SIN

points via discus, shot, javelin and

high jump. Their most serious
rivalry will, in all probability,
come from Krivonak and Chamis.

CAROLYN CASSIDY, Miss Ameri-
can Aviation. From coast to coast
Our country's air lines are playing
@ major part in National Defense.
From coast to coast Chesterfield
gives smokers more pleasure.

; ON THE
— , a

WE WILL WIN. We did it before
and we'll do it again. Once a
smoker has enjoyed Chester-
field's cooler, better taste he
“smokes them again and again.

stertield

Copyright 1942, Licorrt & Mtns Tosacco a

.

NATIONS FRON;

45h

&

WHEREVER YOU FIND A- BLUEJACKET

‘ : : 1 s YOU'LL FIND CHESTERFIELD. On PT- boat,
eine Hence en car DAVIDSON, N. GC we o pettleswapery hey ive wacker i
Frosh Meet V. P. I. “MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT” sata ce

Although the scheduled meet with

