CAT CHAT

By BUTCH PHARR

The -forgotten sport of cross country is coming back into
the news with the Coach Whittle that He
will take a Squad to represent Davidson in the meet at Char-
leston, S. ( Phe endurance machines to accompany Pete on
the trip will be Coppedge, Nichols, Nimmons, and Parks. There
is no indication, however, that this sport which was dropped
last year, will ever be put back on tle college’s athlétic cur-
riculum, .

announcement by

Duke Wins Another

The Southern Conference Basketball Tournament ran prac-
tically true to form‘ with the powerful machine of the Duke
Blue Devils easily downing State in the finals 45-34 for the
conference title. This was Duke’s second straight conference
crown which finished an almost perfect season, having lost
only one conference game before the tourney. Coach Shepard,
who represented Davidson on the tournament committee, re-
ports that the question of using freshmen on varsity squads
next year because of the draft is still undecided and that it may
be left up to the individual schools to decide. Shepard also
suggested that in next year’s tournament every college in the
conference should be allowed to compete regardless of their
season’s record.

With

rumors filling the air of the fate of college and pro
fessional sports during the present emergency, there is a lot of
uncertamty even on the per& or the college officials as to
whether-all of plat Sports: programs will be carried
out. Several large schools throughout the nation have alreadé

dropped some of thei or sports and many more will prob
ably follow suit. Fora good article on this subject those inter

ested should read Whitney Martin's -cohimn-in- early all of

last week's papers that run his articles for the Associatéd Press.
Martin says that*the best watv-for those connecteck with sports,
ad who would like to see them continued through the war

should quite praising the value «

Wo sports as a morale builder
sation for the tride defense worker,

and coneventrate on closer co-operation with the defense execu:

tives. Loud talk and no “work won't et sports anywhere.

and axgood means of relax

The close of the Wildcat’s spring football practice opened
the way for the real spring sports. Coach Whittle already
rounding his trackmen into shape with chances for a good
season very promising. Arch Taylor, who placed first and
third in the indoor meet, Captain Blanton Williamson, Dick
Port, Bill Lacy. Gene Shannon, and Hugh Sprunt, have a jump
on the rest, of. the squad because of the indoor meet and are
being counted on for the winning points in the meets this
spring. The squad opens with a meet with the South Carolina
Gamecocks on April first and should be in good shape by then.

The start ofthe current baseball season sets another question

mark in the minds of the sports followers, Last year’s gradu-

Page Four

Wildcat —

Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEXT SEASON’S CO-CAPTAINS =

ation left many of the most

important positions wide open to
be fought for this spring

Catcher and Captain Rusty Edmund-
tnd will probably be replaced by Red Bethea,
backstop for last vear’s freshman squad. Also the

son graduated

among

missing are .] mimy Yarborough last year’s shortstop, Jim
Hoge who-held cd the third corner, and big Frank Niven
who was quite a power at the bat.. The pitching staff is still

well intact and the bright spot in the lineup.

An optimist’s dream: Davidson with a new gym complete
with a first class basketball court and indoor swimming pool
a decent golf course, one on which the game could actually be
enjoyed .. . all-weather tennis courts which could be played
on even a few days after a rain... better equipment for intra-
mural sports. Doubt if we'll live to see it.

eee

K. A.’s Still Hold Lead;
S.A.E.’s In Close Second

completion | on the gridiron, they were knotted

tthe fal s the | for third.on the hardwood and-were
Kk. Avs clinging precariously to the! ay irded 190% points for their ef-
top oru Ti Intertraternity
: vith 276 point Phi Delts Lag
Pie Si Avot first place} Occupying, the sixth and seventh
in football an in. basketa|-slotsipethe standingwere the-Kappa
ba Head ¢ 1 the K.} Sigs and the Phi Delts, with scores
\Js. as onl e-half point margin 179 and 175 respectively. The
eparates the two leaders Kappa Sigs should not be counted
S. P. E.’s Third | of the, picture, for they promise
\ fast court aggregration enabled| to offer fine spring entries. The
the S. P. E.'s to climb to third in/ Phi Delts, however, must rally to
the standings. Since they held down| retire the coveted interiraternity
the third spot in touel: football, the which ‘they have won for
TR DEGsa 261 places them in] two consecutive season
i comma position should the Lagging far behind. are the luck-
leaders falter | le Vi Kaps with 1580 points, “and

By
touch and tying fdr third in basket-
ball, the Beta’s

the standing, separated by mar-

trhe

H2!2 points give theif undisputed
possession of the cellar.

Volleyball Next
from the third place| Volleyball
P. E.'s | sprin
Although the Pikas failed-to place!

racking up a third place in vietory-starved Phi Gams, whose

clinch fourth place

gin of 29 point will inaugurate the
fe) Y sports

program followed by
the interfraternity track meet, While

Scabbard And Blade
And The “D” Club...
ax; PRESENT
FREDDY JOHNSON
AND HIS ORCHESTRA

March 13th and 14th, 1942

At the Charlotte-Armory

Swapping ‘their basketballs for snowballs are Long John Belk and Jack Wayman, elected last week to
be co-captains of next season’s varsity quintet. Belk, from Charlotte, N. C., and Wayman from Miami, Fla., Id
with Senior Bob McLeod, lead this year's Wildcats in points scored. (See Charlotte Observer, March 7.) | !!!«l.

’Cat Trackmen
Hold Practice

Large Squad Turns Outs
Brenizer and White Missed

Last Monday afternoon Coach
Heath Whittle gave the initial call
1942. Wildcat

over 35 candidates reporting

for the squad, with
Prep-
aration was begun immediately for
the first meet with the University

of South Carolina on April first
Veterans Report

ir

Arch Taylor and Captain

Williams

Belk,—B. B.

The team will built around

veterans
the hurdles;

Blanton in

John

Turnage, and

Bill Loy and Taylor in the quarter
mile; Hugh Sprunt: in the dashes;

and Don Bell, Glenn Terrell, Turn-

age, Baxter Freeze, Dave Spencer,
and Gene Shannon in the field

events.

The loss of Chase

field

Brenizer, star

event man and one of high

point men of Igst season; Captain

Jack White, talar 440 man; and
Matt Long, whe transferred, will
be a severe set-back, though there

are several good men filling tle va-
Py

cancies.

Soph Prospects
Coming up from last year’s, fresh-
nian promising
Bill

Lacy, who was 6utstanding in both

squad are several

prospects. Among these are-
track and field events for the frosh
winning thirty points in one meet
With him are Dick Port,
who ran both high and lows; Pat
Williams, hurdler and field events;
Elliet White and Long

the distances; and Rhea Dabney

last year.

Pm |
Rufus int

in the dashes and broad jumps.

fourth
will conclude the eyentful season.
Interfraternity Standings

baseball, the major sport,

Rufus Nimmons in the distances; |

|

|

‘

Mae Peas for You

There’s satisfaction in knowing that
the 6%¢ revenue tax you pay on every
pack of twenty cigarettes is doing its
bit for Uncle Sam

Every time you buy Chesterfields you get
the satisfaction of a smoke that’s definitely
MILDER, far COOLER and BETTER-TASTING.

Chesterfield’s superior blend of the
world’s best cigarette tobaccos will give you
more smoking pleasure than you ever had
before. Try a pack of Chesterfields today.

CHESTERFIELDS cre
mighty important in
this man’s army.New
recruit or old-timer...
they all like the ciga- |
rette that satisfies.

HA

WILLIAM TRACY ond ELYSE
KNOX (a Chesterfield girl), star-
tingjin Hal Roach’s comedy hit
FOOT.

Our movie stars are doing a
grand job selling defense bonds
and entertaining our soldiers.
Many of them choose Chester-
field to send to men in uniform.

Thursday, March 12, 1942

Wayman, Belk Elected
Co-Captains For Next
ar; McCoy New Mer.

Tie In Ballots Initiates New System;
Joe McCoy Succeeds Morris As Varsity Manager

|
}
|
|
|

ye

|

é Election of Jack Wayman and
Varsity Squad John Belk as co-captains of next
| year’s edition of Davidson’s quint
nounced last week by Mac

To Begin Drill| «

Morris, varsity manager.
Inli ‘ring ir itehin’ arm ‘
| Unlimbering their pitchin’ arms Joe McCoy was elected to the post
| after { i ‘sores i - é
| atter a long winter's rest, David { varsity manager to succeed“Mor-
on’s) varsi i ) “re s x .
J son's varsity: diamond crew swung] 4. and ‘Tom Lane will handle the
jinto action Monday for an arduous] dities of freshman manager, fol-
} three weeks of conditioning and lowing Squatty Squires,
| practice rhe first game is slated i
R Ihe tie vote of the basketball
| or March 30, when the Cats take
‘ squad) which gave the two co-
lon the ( atawba nine 5 ; <
| captains their positions institutes
| Seniors Missing a new system of captaincy. During
| : ' the past season Davey Spencer
}-—-Gone trom the local lineup are :
| sees handled the duties unassisted, as
| such familiar faces as those of Tom-
Fe have the other head men for sev-
| Yarborough, Niven Latta, Hoge
i F i eral years.
Jand the stellar captain of ‘41, Rusty :
|

Imudson. Even Duke would find Coach Norman Shepard seemed

trouble in tilling the shoes of those] favorably impressed with the elec-

| top-notely performers, and with Da-] on and the new system; two cap-
|

idson’s limited of will

supply talent, | Utins prevent the frequent
e talk is a big one. change of captains during the game
Ma WECCH Gh eau ile nieeroriloe often necessary with only one
| , stablished captain,
| t years squad plus a secant but
hind bunch of sophmores, has Both the electees have seen ser-
| do the hopes of Wildeat’ fans] viee -thissyear as members of the
| anew high, with visions of vic- [regular starting five, Wayman usu-
} tories over Duke and State. The}ally at a forward and Belk always
ist prominent prospects for the]as the center. Belk led the Wild-
jnad this year are Lucas, Morris,} cat: squad in’ scoring both during
jand MeLeod pitchers; Carter, Ma-| his freshman year and during the
lian y. Bruce, and Owens, infield; | past season, sinking 210 points.

Wayman stood third in the score

total of 75

[err Caldwell, Datfin, Clark, Rainey,

Fredricks, and Graves to the out-] column with a season

markers.

Col. VIVIAN J.
OLSEN, Cadet MARIE
HOFFMAN of the Wo-
men's Defense Cadets
of America. This and simi-
lar organizations send
millions of Milder, Better-
Tasting Chesterfields to
the men in uniform.

iv a Kappa _Alphas.05 ooo sec oes { 276 7 LSS
: : Set Ticket $4.25 Sigma Alpha Epsilon__.-.---2275% :
Night Dances UE a 250 Sigma Phi Epsilon._- 261
aha Sania habr cdot Aten ctoth ic hasbed £4 Tr =e . 232
Tea Danc eT PLATT CRY ER 10 Seta tiiete Picasa = 232
i i iE Pi Kappa’ Alpha_----.___-_+__ 19014 4

Kappa’ Sigmasen. coo 179. |
COME ONE, COME ALL Phi Delta Theta-—-----_-.-- 175
Ritkappaihhive-cosscet oe sce 150

- Phi-Gamma=Deltass-ss-su ees 112% Copyrigh 1942, Licortr & Mans Tosacco Co

terfield

