wom

e

Pasko Threo ° Wildcat Sports
—~ : - (OC Qo TN MIZE
mF A TF. writ ” o
Lin (-Me Gli NIS WH NPRST Ae Co Jn th J IU
: ‘ aed ae laa INIT —2 Cy Wat ny 27 yi . 7
DOUE BE - Oy Ved Che | DOAN Jt bce ce ebony
Playing an alert brand of tennis | 2hs vivelry detween the Lov
throughout, ‘the snappy team of fue | pane 20a. Dune vate clus. comes %3'
gone Linton and Pinker McGinnis" a head this avy CrHoor, 24 whe Wo
ousted tho favored toam of Gono tcoans clash “st ce yennant
Sutton and Lacy. NeLean in tho finels!in tao swim hcoy. 3
CL the Doubles Tournament held last“) chins wilt be down and, there wilt
Priday. Phe winners took.the first j bc lots oF acvion nrovicca Lor
sct arvor cnreountering stiff oppo- -| bho cope CORS.s 88 “
siton, 7-5; Sutton-liachocnn CRING ri, ahe aids TUG OLTLLL pownaca
back to wir the socord aot casily oat a -16 vin over une Bout
6-2, but tho champions slosed thé j Ruaple | bean lace thursiay, ana,
Lest set out in rapid fashion, 6-1. jas tre‘scorce inéientes, vhe cone
“HeGinnis virtually nut on.a OnG~ woot wos Dradl' slusiost. who °
man chow, as tho sirzlos chempion municional club ceorod scvon, runc -
her 00d control of his skots and -in their self 62 the wivss—ovtn
wed “on. 2a, bub.the Duos ¢eemo bac: to
~ phnoten wares counters. in thoilz
Choe semi-final round provided Peake ost riotethe count is the
Sone Fast action with Suttone-ie- | second vinth ss four run valli.
Lear, Gliminating the darx horse f Theo poewons had a bins dai, and
nury of Yordorso'-Capgs after’ a | ecdring Gontinucd on wovh sidon.
tevrific struggle, 7- -5. 6-25/Th {The Butes ened a bis ViLth rams
~tournancnt victors olininated tho “and wenv_ancad to Ben tncir
WYood-Liorton tooam without-huch ‘bhard £ ut oo

trouble, Tho tours cy wes a_pig
success, and all matchosuere-raiv
off according “to phecdul Ge

FORSE ESHOE.A ACTION
REACH IES-QUART ER Ne MA iM

ee

“ne Goubles pitching
feacod -tho guartcerefisals
ara the final mavenos

ayod off at tac. ord of
Pairings ore as rollows:s

Be pl
wool.

fod

QyvePArkS Ve Bol! t-Pctorss",
Sollend-! Lay V6 suyLn~Stuboirs “
Zoyster-Sutton vs. Denany-Vinchsster

MeLean-"arris vs. "um ittlo- Sand ihev '
—Gac-matvercs have all doen -veryclos: 34
ona the Final action snovwid provia fea

1

somci fast. pitching compcotition.

40. sates a=

povont Sast

in the Duke

Gaye at, bat, :

over five vuis in :

Rirgecndwers LOVER “hoaaca

‘When of ORv, Lecund-bascman

Charlic Gaps. OES whe. last pite

j with Gyo for tour,

Lo and Domrmir
igomen. bimtne
OL. ,

’

OF WS.

DDG G

mech
¢

OQ

a

