‘
i .y

Page Two e.
i

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, November 19, 1943

The Bavidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

Published Bi-Monthly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina a;

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $.75 the Collegiate year

REPRE ETE ONAL AOVERTICING BY

Nationa WAdver tising Service, Inc.
Coliege Publishers Representative

420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.

CHICAGO + BOSTON + LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

as secondyclass father at

North

bentercd
Davidson,

the Post Office at
Carolina, under the act of March 3, ¥d879

BOB PIERCE Bonaire
BOB GUSHMAN -- Bocsereses on

-EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
.«..-BUSINESS MANAGER

+

EDITORIAL STAFF

Dave Richardson ~~ -Managing Editor
Lamar Williamson -Managing Editor
George Apperson -. -Managing Editor
ATOR A BHO diane cp da ease ce daba cate scensoapsescsenaSPOTth h NGitOr:

This paper is the official history of college life, and
is a medium of student and faculty opinion, As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to
it, provided-such does not contain dérogatory reference
to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or de-
structive criticism, All material must be in the editor’s
hands by Monday night on the week that it is to be
printed. The editor reserves the right to reject part
or all of any contributions or communications.

Wildcat Squad...

A word of tribute to the valiant showing
the ’Cats have made against their oppon-
ents this year, Although _ outweighed
twenty and even:thirty pounds to the man

High among these things is a rather
undefinable and highly intangible value.
Some call it the ‘Davidson Spirit.”
always been one of the great: factors in the
life of the college. It is able to so influence
a man that his experiences here are never
forgotten. It is that something that has
endeared Davidson to so many past genera-
tions.

The atitdenit body is greatly reduced.
More than half are freshmen. Few will be
able to complete four years of work.
Under these conditions many things of
value are likely to be lost.

There should be a conscious effort on the-+
part of every student to remember these
things at all times. We must not lose the
Christian attitude that has prevailed here
for so long. With this there is the frater-

nal spirit and deep sense of honor which ;

cannot be forgotten. Davidson men must
continue to be considerate and helpful to-
ward their fellow students.

Only if we follow these and other great
traditions can we obtain the fullest values
from our college life and assure them for
othérs aaa weet a

Concerts...

Last Wednesday night Miss Eileen Farrell
appeared in Chambers Auditorium as the first
artist in the 1943-44 series sponsored by the
college. Miss Farrell presented the first of
four concerts to be given’ during the series.

The various musical organizations have long
goné without the recognition which their hard
work and long hours entitles them to. But
that is not the poifitthere. The point is that a
great many of our students are passing up,
and will continue to dg so, an opportunity to
hear some fine music at a price and place which

-all_can-aflord,_Some-of these-men-may_he-mis—|—,

sing the concerts just because ‘music is scored |

or the average air every game, they have
nevertheless won praise from every quarter
because of their gameness, their clean
sportsmanship and their never-die’ spirit
from the kick-off to the final whistle.

If teams were judged on this basis as to
its greatness, then truly this year’s Wildcat
team would go down as one of the greatest
in Davidson’s history. The Davidson stu-
dent body is justly proud of you.

GEORGE APPERSON
Among the most frequent statements one
hears today are those about the effect 0
the war-upon all phases of our life. It is
not a mére cliche to say that Davidson has
been greatly affected by the present-conflict.
, ~ There are, however, certain phases of
‘our life here which must stand above
change if the college, as it was before the
war, is to remain unchanged.

litre by inany people.. And what a mistake
that is, when one looks at the fine men and
women in the past and present who have loved
music, and when one realizes the part which
music has played in all our lives.

The appreciation of the fine arts is one thing
which is definitely lacking in modern college
curricular... In our present-day rush we have
no time for it, and because our minds are too
superficial to ever learn to appreciate such
things, we condemn them. That is a sad state.

Phi Mu Alpha is to be congratulated for un-
officially backing these concerts. But more
than.that, after they have gone to the trouble

of givifig us such an opportunity to hear really

great music, the student body should be anxi-
ous to take advantage of the opportunity and
use it to enrich themselves.

There are three more concerts this year,
and any man would be foolish to miss one with-
out thoroughly considering the matter, In the
future we expect to see the auditorium much
fuller—with students who can appreciate
music at its best, or have the sense to want to
learn something of it when given such ‘a

It has |

°Y’ Corner

by ED. PATTERSON

The impression of the Fall Serv-
ices can still be felt on the campus.
Few men have the power and force
that Dr. Smart showed in present-
ing to us real, working, every-day
religion. How can we forget his
talks on the “Goodness of God's
Creation” and “Suffering With
Christ?” The striking note through-
out the series of talks was a pecu-
liar combination of inspiration and
practical suggestions. All in all
Mhe Services did much to enrich
our *‘stock pile” of Christian Faith.

Little Recognition

There are lots of fellows here,
who are doing some good work
and receive very little public recog-
nition for it—not that publicity is
what they are working for. You've
probably seen the Y-car (which the
Chinese have named “One Long
Pang”) filled with boys heading
for the Sanitorium every Sunday
morning—that’s what I mean. Then
there are the fellows. who help
out with the Scout work and Gray-
Y clubs in the community; the boys
who keep Hall Prayer Meetings
going every week; the fellows who
are always willing to lend a hand
when needed, i. ©, at Vespers,
making posters, etc. .These are the
men who. play the biggest part in
| keeping up-the Davidson Tradition,

and in keeping a friendly and
Christian atmosphere about the
school.

Some people have said that one
of the biggest parts of and educa-
tion is knowing the people you meet
in college. There is a lot of truth
in this. There are a lot of* differ-
‘ent kinds of people af Davidson
PWelrall have a real education when
we Jearn to know, understand, and

appreciate each other at Davidson.

Yours,
Ed Patterson

_ - PHI SOCIETY

This year the Philanthropic
Literary Society began with only
nine members.. These were R.
W. Coonrad, J. P. Alexander, T.
P. Bradley, Hoyt Evans, J. E.
Evans, W. H. Grey, W. R. Smith,
R. E. Hollinger, and T. A. Guiton.

The following were issued bids |
to become members: R. O. Free-
man, Walter Goodman, Dick Mc-
Cloy, Edwin Meeks, Newt Spen-
cer, Lamar Williamson.

Officers elected were presi-
dent, Hoyt Evans; vice-presi-
dent, Bill Grey; secretary, Tag
Guiton; treasurer, John Evans;
first critic, Ralph Coonrad; sec-
ond critic, Tinsley Bradley.

chance.
¥

