ALOT

nn

on a te

Suh .sbut never We Uy GUE, TAS GALS
Shout pemission, I-us¢d LACH LEADELE —
g dikes", but after s2eing After unseteing Tov an ticlr Jirst
oe delief ig that the word gone, Tne Georgie Gis roved iatg sic
e fitting,..Until those “ro sosstssion of viret plece v7 menling
. ngs 88 vhe Y begin reporting | jryuc. LIN by tie overmielining score of
Peghes . Oost im!ivds inportan’ as the 10 to 0, ‘Me Ginnts honed 2 on Covtras
ced of replaccnent,. Until the Comics for nine nits, inckicing 2 long homer by
wealine that’Eds are bashful and necd more! john Belk, sud-mnde use of seven Vatis
gucegt auiles, encouragcment, This is nota errors i score hoiy ten muns. Lcomnmile

evitielsa,mercly youtnrel: desire for sore— Hoyt
ceminine friondsaip,dcan n,Gearts. Ts MOLe mance, - up only sit sczvtcred hivs
“gdutifel because of galloping gels galore! jo. sein wae only shutout of the season
were More Beautiful because of good atti-|__ so far. “Buddy ¥ clh.s soared iis tear
bude shorm co fer to Suhday School Gift Pua) woth in the fidld end-atbrs bycollce-
zd Pickard and Conicdrts are giving you ec} ting to for four at ta. plete and by
Trianeé to, helo.Do iti...Campus Comient:303) turping iayots drive ink the first’ inains
weied stéli Going a good job with afvornoo. from“. sure hit into a dousle play. ott
Sunday School Clags--sonctines spoaing 2%) Led the Losers.ct but vita wo for bo,

urnce—3 mgt rin be wnt pore fab eked

coy
church hour too,.,Glad tociave fir, Soa Belk Torn ceancd tocir ghrst yietory oy a
on the campus. Definitely an acdition.Adkc over iebis I. wers’ man-
ivy who nave been to a prayer group with hin} »- “lev five nits oft of Linton, but

aleven Vietos ore
ounb eédor yivis
a.nondy, SLco-

rs  Crrel: ens 030! med up-whth

.. Congrats to Rhea Daimay. His initisl
acouarence in Chapel Tucs, shows.his poise
Gc tell me he hac girls too. Got it?...
Qlérlie DeLency and music mikes deligntful
py dren Licicil is no faster for his aoscnce yyyhe

“ron OL! Dive, Really docsalt need to ve, Hbtgon cag GL van over hotoless Votte Tr,
swect as ae is...they tell me!,,.Sandifor's/Premean Jones piteicd. ffve-nis boll ane |
Suncay Pight Progron wes useful s-Students f the onze atts min wae on vagy. whe ono ¢
geld anat Bible ha rd revealed God in tac fj the firse inning. puis ete Led st
syes of cifferct men to be. Tf you take | bat wiv... two for tro, while Courras paced
ine-real timc-to consider what ile means the losevs with tv f

t.0 for throc,
to. you I wonder if there would beans very Br virtue of scopins five russ in ta
—Yarving opinions? Yes} But initial trouble Lost invine Wetts Ewes able to nosc out
Le foar is fear of sitting dorm long cnoug.? tho Georzis Cr-ciers 5; 985, in the most
to think _it_out...foo. badj_and xnat_is mois Py rillin cere iat Bes buon played so Lar
aie SLO TCENT? pacers oroamy youtd—tolime ti wQhs, Keslonys y onan into tic ton acliic ane : :
Jerry Newoold, boyS and girls promis¢okg || inning Coorg Sa Ying TOStLVG O21 OQ CoAbOL—
snow tris soturday.’ Ox Jerry, Juaoi...Our |: table G- Losec. Then Vatvs eame Yo lice
Secst House hostess, lirss Calevell, and ov and seored five runs to tale ¢ narrow.
dictition,iirs. Fergercon, are certainly 2h, 9-3 Le-d iciopwoved suflicie:t for vie-

‘our workersjand still are pleasant to us} torr, ‘Tho outburst esc as 2 resuhy oe
eo walk, €e5-

B

unthinkiig rests. Just ty tem ond sce...! four dis, four orrors, at
yan-Of-ThetWeck:Is a cirl).../dseys willing) fidld wie Dod Jones naced their respective

to help from cleanins un after programs to) ters at bat with one fom two ooch,

theing on thai, serious or gay as thc de> | - In wiat-resermpled - treck mect-morc

mand, interested in Davidsor and tr at ken Suen « softball pose, Goorgic I downed

Ls most vorthyiile about at, NS. ta Toim L7-lLl. Por doth tveooms theve ves la
" trie-and we hove ness Ls is ere Sotel of AS auns, L7 hits, end 17 errors,
Mile co-cd to vhe q, Devidsox, FOU Ne Gavocii weg tic bxtcime ster witch three

o hdd this za far sinutes with "Cop"|) for four, including ¢ heme mun, Shan-
Linkér usually mean moro than an hour with} nom and gancifor each, collcctce two bine"
sonc.../Gtl1l rigs Arlene Steindcher as well sles, one of the battivks bein a erinic.
ac hii Boyt tt... cinost,anjway.. SiLL Smith San Evin Les Bho. Crackers vaboh two Lor
(ig Gelishtad company, es is C. Scoficla..{—threc, — —_
. (continued on p.3~-don!t stop now!)

.

