rAd
anaes

WTHDS VWEHC'G'  UihiS “AND situs!
inturday Acternoon - 4 3.m. -— Transvorta
ion letves MICA for liarivis Lake July

Jaiiboree,

SUNCay: ¢

LO:L5 a.m. Students! Sunday; School, Y¥
Lounge = Myron Sancifer, Teacher

11:15 a.m, - Mornin: Vorshin at tie
Colleze Caurch - Rev, Carl Pritchett,
Fastor

8:00 pom. - Vesper's Progrem in front
of Chambers - Dr. Yr. Crossley jiorgan
of Concord, Guest i.inister

9:00 pit, - Bible Quiz in the ¥ Lounse
Prof. Ervin, Juizzer - Two Studs

\

ed.

205 STPONED CELEBRATION
TOBE HELD THIS WEEK-END

Tats a day afternoon, July 17, the

oi:eC.A. Of: Davidson 1s sponsorin,, its
\Jumpin! ie Jamboree at jiarris Lake,

iThe Jamboree wes orivinally

tthe week-en of the th, but

scneculed for
cue to incle-

ment werther, was postponed, , The progran
'ror tie dey incluces swinvin ,, picknicking,
land prancin,g in the evening,

j Adl tie stucents areursed to acquire
jacquire therselves d:tes for tie occasion,
|Tie entire group will meet in front of :

jthe "Y" et’ four o'clock Saturday afternoon,

ana tyo Facult? 8s Contestents ifrow ywiiich aie ce tucyyiill proceed to Har-
Tuesday ~- 9:00 pen. — "Iiusic Under the iris Lake, anso re aN ise has been provided
Trees! ; Joe 1icCoy will have chars of the swin-
jecnescay = 10:15 poms = Nall Prayer midng durin? the afternoon, and ne and his
Ped CL eh 09) 21: skeen d tana tien he cnsn a, (ASSLsstants will sec_to the personal safoty
URS, fT. SH RESTGIS lof those in the water, Everyone is reques-
Last weck irs, 2.7, Smith turned in her ‘jted to cooperate fully in any requy'st That
resi;nation as Supervisor of Dormitorics Joe might make.
at Davidson College, She has lida this fter the swim, a picnic wil] be in ordeg
osition for tiwconty-one years, and the Throu,h“Jerry licwbold's manageaent, the
respcct she nas earned is evidenced by food for ti: picnic has been obtained fron
the fact’ tist the 1943 Juips and Cranks jthe various boardin# louses, ‘The supper
was dediceted to her, ! will be follo:red-by music and prancing on
Succeediin: Mrs, Snith at the end of thejthe larse Pavilion. The prancing vill
Summer Session:will be iirs, Gordon Cald—- lbrin;, to a close the fcstivitics of the
well, wio is now the dietition at tlc day.
packlenbung vz Sanito: ium,» = In-the-eventtnat the -veatner should —
eer reer gear acts CORNER See Teena maize tic Jambone.. iy 1D0. S611 y woh ON wh res
ae ALL TIAT I SURVEY: Records show +that lY.i..C.A. will have a square dance here on
ilary Sreeies Vatson and "Katc! Velser nowjtie commus for-the stidents and their
one yeer olecr by the bopk-Conzretsi[-- Idates, :
Alil-Harts ore “full of-foy...Speaxing of There i111 no Cp eG for the after-
niceties, not@feculty-student soft ball noon excenot for tic cost of going in swin-
gemes--good <a..es plus fellovwsiino--shows ming which amounts to Te Any other cx-

«

interest in students as well as oxercise=-

pense will come from cxtras, such as cold

come down and watch--and hollcr sll you . ic rinks.
like,. Problem (?) arises; ‘iNoiscs in ! You're cordially invited to sorend the
doims not quitc-as consirtent with ventlowa. bore. anc ‘to biing a date (if Possible)

manliness.as thougitless "racketcers"'

would like to believe-—unfortun: te that

iaany wno really want to study arc too

gentlanenly recerved to soerk of it to

buddies on the hall—-fortunr te that buc-

dies on hall can talze- stock of nicirt ac-
(Con't on Paze 2)

Remember:

TOib: & o'clock Gaturday aft
in-tront-o--oune i vt
Only)

CORRIC TION a

rnoon

we ee eee

| There a are 26, 600, 000, 361 leaves on
tac Davidson Ca: re Sorry.
