Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thursday, December 16, 1943

The BMavidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

Published Bi-Monthly For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $.75 the Collegiate year:

REPRESENTED FOR NATION SL. ADVERTISING BY

) National Advertising Service, Inc.
: Colleze Publishers Representative

420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.

CHICAGO + BosTON - LOS ANGELES - SAM FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at

the Post
Davidson, North

Office at
Carolina, under the act of

March 3, 1879

BOB PIERCE ..._._._...._........-.-.-.... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB CUSHMAN ....__..___.._..........BUSINESS MANAGER

hele Tea

Dave Richardson -.-.---.---Managing Editor
Lamar Witiamson .-.-- ---Managing Editor
GROERESCADDCTEON ruse scccasecuusencecdccusessse Managing Editor
John Ashe pegihy ports Editor

Two Years After Pearl Harbor

“Faculty Committee Chooses Eight Men
As 1941-42 Debaters; Scabbard And Blade
Taps Eight Men In Special Ceremony; Y.
M. C. A. Gift Fund Reaches $1600; KA
—Kappa Sigma Function.” So ran the
headlines three days before Pearl Harbor.

And on the editorial page Editor Tony
Darby satirized our telephone “system.
Henry MelIntosh gave his conception of
the truly great Davidson student, and Bill
Lyman wrote a witty editorial in reply to
Queen's verbal attack on the Davidson stu-
dent through their paper, the Queen’s
Blues.

But three days later The Davidsonian
was completely changed in tenor from the
newspaper which had reported the fur and
frolic of collegiate days at peace. The
Japs had struck at Pearl Harbor, and
American youth was face to face with war.

“We must look further than winning a
war. Winning the peace is going to be
even more important.’ ‘So spoke President
Cunningham Monday morning, December
8, in chapel.

Last week December 7, marked two
years of total war for Davidson College
and: our country. In retrospect those two
years represent change, grief; glory, worry,
hard work. and increasing maturity for
those of us who have stayed at Davidson
and those of our number who have been
called to the service.

We wondered on that day in 1941 what
war would mean to us and now we know.
Tony Darby who wrote of telephones in
his lighter moments was wounded in the
field of action in North Africa; Henry
McIntosh gave up a career in medicine to

enter the service and is now in the war zone,
a lieutenant in the paratroops. Bill Lyman

has just received his commission at Fort |

Bening. Dozens of Davidson men have
made the supreme sacrifice. Lifé does not
run on the same tenor as it once did.

While its men fight on distant battle
fronts, the college itself has. gone to war.
Its most important task has become that of
training Air Corps cadets. Ciyilian stu-
dents have come to know ration: crowd-
ed housing, and a curtailed social program.
They buy bonds, they give blood, they col-
lect scrap, and they pray for those dear
to them at the battle front.

Two years of war have seen a United
States, unprepared and suffering defeats,
change to a powerful nation, mechanized
for war. Two years of war find us de-
termined t6 exact an unconditional sur-
render from our enemies as the only basis
for a permanent peace. The machinery to
plan this peace is in full operation. Events
have taught us the importance of an in-
telligently planned peace, and this time we
are prepared.

May that peace come soon to the
world. May Davidson men two years from
now know a Davidson that we knew in
those pre-war days.

Ais the Staff

DAVE RICHARDSON

Sherman marched through Georgia once,
and last Friday night it looked like the Air
Corps was going to do it-again. Nobody
would have blamed them very much, except
the ten or twelve student casualties, because
a perfectly good Davidson tradition had been
carried too far.

Sure the. soldiers, deserved a_little yelling, |
and they probably ‘took the first two hundred
cadence counts in as good humor as anybody
who had to get up at six. But it did go too
far. Ivery last soldier was awake and cuss-
ing half an hour before the party broke up.

The whole affair might never have come
up if another Davidson tradition had not
been neglected. This year, students are for-
getting to speak to everybody they meet
on the campus, and, as a result relations
between the Air Corps and the students
have become fubar, If you forget to speak
to. somebody, the chances are he will not
greet the next person he meets, and so on.

With the student body as small as it is,
there-is-no-excuse_for-not-speaking, and since
the Air Corps is_here for the duration, we
might as well/do what we can to make
everybody happy. Freshmen especially
have been) neglecting this tradition, which is
every bit as much a part of Davidson spirit
as not booing a referee, and as barking at
women,

The Air Corps admits they had the yell
coming; now it’s up to us to see that there
is no need for it to happen again.

‘Y’ Corner

by ED. PATTERSON

There is always a lot of hustle
and bustle about this time every
year when thoughts are turning to
home, and the folks, and, of course,
all the good times you'll have dat-
ing, sleeping late, eating, and num-
erous other things that make up
We are truly fortunate in
having a home to go to, and in be-
ing able to get home for Christmas.
Lots of fellows won't make. it this
year; some of our boys will never
see another Yuletide. Think it over,
when you have to go to some incon-
venience on your way home and be
only too willing to complain, before
you say anything.

If you. didn’t attend the Y’s
Christmas Vesper program you mis-
sed a lot of the tradtion at David-
and, also, singing Christmas
There was a lot of work
done in preparing the auditorium,
and cangratulations are in order to
Ed Patterson.

The Battle of the Hill will go
down as a victory for the Partisians
and, like Bataan, will ever be known
“delaying action”’—delaying the
Air Corps from singing at such an
otherwise peaceful h6ur. There
Was some misunderstanding; they
under orders to sing and
weren't just’ being “meanies.” Ah,
sleep once more....

Scraps from here and there... .

The Gift Fund is a success thanks
to the generosity of each of you. .
No more worthier cause . . . Bob
Miller did a swell job and deserves
a vote of thanks .’. . Rediscovered
recently: there’s some good in the
worst of us and some bad in the
best of us ... Like to see more of
the good in the worst, tho’
Understand there are some_thirty
freshmen entering y this next semes-
ter... Still think we will be short
on students this spring? Guess
again... ‘

Do the freshmen know there are
coaching classes ‘for T H EI R
benefit? ... Some fellows think the
Army will be a pleasant relief from
college ... They have quite a shock
coming to them; and had best take
advantage of the time allotted them
to be here, rather than playing “Mr.
Big” Relaxation for studies,
not seeing “that same old face”
when you get up in the morning,
no cramming for reviews, and being
able to sing “Oh what a beautiful
morning” without sarcasm, are all
a part of the Holidays; but only a
part . . . Have you ever realized
the True meaning of Christmas?
Ever taken time to figure out what
it was all about? Try it when you
read about the casualties from the
fronts and try to figure out just
what we are fighting for’... Maybe
that will strike home. . .

home.

son,

carols.

asa

were
