Page Twe

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, December 3, 1943

The DPabvidsoniar

Founded By the Class of 1915

Published Bi-Monthly or a Better

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

I
r_copy. 75 the Collegiate year

TED POR WN ov 4 %

National Advertising Service, Inc,
College Publishers Representativg

420 Mapison Ave. New York, N. Y.

Cuicago - Boston - Los Anesies - Sam Franciece

Ten cents

Entered as second-class matter. at the Post Office a’
Davidson,, North Carolina, under the act of March 3. 1

BOB PIERCE
BOB CUSHMAN

..--.--EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
__BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF 7

Dave Richardgon Editor

palate alli. SoM per LGET mater
7 r
ARI a Sports Editor

This paper is the official history of college life, and

is a medium of student and faculty opjnion. As such
4t welcomes any contributions or communications to
it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference
to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or de-
structive criticism. All material must be in the editar’s
hands by Monday night on the week that it is to be
printed. The editor reserves the right to reject part
or all of any contributions or commynications.

International. Relations

Perhaps one of the contributing causes of
our failure ta win the peace in 1919 was the
traditional failure of our colleges and uni-
versities to train their students in world
thinking. Indeed our students have been
more than isolationists. They haye usually
traditional failure of oyr colleges and un-
lived in a little academic world all of their
own with little relation to either national or
international politics. The time for this
has come to an end. We can no longer re-_
gard ourselves as insignificant beings in_|
this titanic convulsion. This is our war! It
shall be our peace! But haye we aWakened
as yet to this fact? Evidently not.

There has been some effort on the part
of the administration, a little on the part of
the students, to stir up interest in the stu-
dent body as to the significance of this
global war and as to what kind of peace we
shall have afterwards. Some have sug-
gested that more lecturers of national fame
be secured so as to enliven our interests and
enlighten our minds. Although this is a
good suggestion and should be carried out,
it is not enoygh. There must be some basis
upon which the interest of the student
would be sustained from day to day and
from week to week and which would direct
his thinking effectively.

In the past there has been an Jnterna-
tional Relations Club composed of students

interested in this subject with a faculty

adviser to guide them. It was a failufe---

mainly hecause the course of world events

was not close enough to: them to enliven |
their_interest> ‘Today this is not-the case.-

However because of the inadequacy of
knowledge of the present Davidson student
of things of an economical, political, or
historical nature, it cannot be a student
club alone, It must be a faculty-student
organization.. Only then can the student’s
mind be most efficiently directed in the
channels for the formation of an edequate
foundation for objective thinking of things
of an international and national nature.

This organization should make its pre-
sence felt on the campus by taking over the
program on certain chapel days Ba once
every two weeks) by forums open to the
student body and town people. Only then
can this organization be most profitable to
the college. Some facylty member or
student must take it into their own hand to
organize sych a club,

If liberal education ever had any worth,
it has more in time of war. With all the
world in a state of flux it is the responsi-
bility of the institutions of higher learning
to make clear the present significance of
this struggle and to educate the men and
women who will shape the fyture at its
cessation.

Narrow-mindedness_.
LAMAR WILLIAMSON
“Whatcha say we go up and short-sheet him to-
night?” “Yeah, and let’s stick that old board out in
the hall under his mattress!” And they're off to have a
little good clean fun. That’s one of the things that
makes dormitory life worth living.
Now |et’s look in on the fellow who gets short-
sheeted. In nine tenths of the cases he’ will act
mortally hurt and raise cain for a while just as part of

the game; then the whole thing will be forgotten,

some fellows who attract short-sheeted beds, glue-
smeared door knobs, and sometimes even cutting re-
marks and knowing winks just like the Broadway at-
tracts freshmen. ;

How many of us ever stop to think about that
sort of fellow’s viewpoint? All too often those of
us who do think of the other fellow occasianally do
so unfairly. If a boy seems to be a little queer. be-
cause he doesn’t act just like the rest of the crowd,
or because his ideas do not coincide with the average
campus opinion, we are often narrowminded enough
to shun him, pester him, or give him vicious “cuts”
behind his back. This is no passing problem ap-
plicable in only a few cases; it is a common failing
among the student body. More good boys than we
care to admit have been driven away from Davidson
by an attitude of mockery which has:no place in a
democratic society.

We pride ourselves in having a student body with
a high standard of individual character. It is safe
to say that there is not a man in Davidson College
who does not have something admirable about his
character; usually far more than we give him credit
for. Isn't that a goed thing to, remeder the next
time we feel a little, mean “cut” coming on?

‘Y’ Corner

by ED. PATTERSON

The Evolution of a. College: a
short while ago I ran across some
old school rules. They were found
in a catalogue issued for the school
year 1845-45. I want to pass. some
of these rules on to you asking o!
that you compare them with our
present college rules,

}. The denial of the being pf
God, or the inspiration and divine
authority of the Holy Scriptures;
oF an endeavor to propogate princ-
iples subversive to the Christian Re-
ligion, by any Student, shall subject
him to expulsion from college.

2. No Student shall play at
cards, dice, ar gny other immoral
game; or buy, keep, or use in his
rgem ar elsewhere any intoxicating
liquors; or keep a dirk, pistol, or
any deadly weapon; ar visit tippl-
ing-houses, or other places of ill
fame; or use profane language; or
be guilty of any grossly immoral
conduct whatspever, wnder severe
penalties. :

3. No Student shall leave the

| College grounds to visit his home, or

any other place whatsoever, or to
go beyond the limits of an ordinary
walk for recreation, without ob-
taining express permission from a
member of the Faculty.

How often have you stopped to
think what Davidson can mean to
you? The point is brought home
strongly by the Davidson men now
in the Armed Forces, who have writ-
ten back or come. back and told how

| they feel about it. Here’s part of a

letter that expresses what many of
them are thinking: :
_“—while_I_was_at school: people
kept saying Davidson is different
and it is fine—you know the first ~
five lines of every speakers address.
Well, I put it down as so much
bunk—but it isn’t bunk, that is, from
one standpoint at least, and that is
the campus. You don’t find any-
thing to equal it outside that
Campus, I can tell you. I say all
this fervently, because I mean it.”
Yours
Ed. Patterson

STONESTREET

Grade A Cafe
418 S. Main

Mooresville, N. C.

