Page Four - THE DAVIDSONIAN

Into The Life of Things) omnes",

Beaty stated at Davidson today that

as far as he has been able to learn

By J. S. BLAIN Mr. Goodrum’s total sales (of $232,-

‘Master, where shall I work today?” wow of Bonds or yee
22,000.00 were onds) have

And my love flowed warm and free. surpassed those oi any other single
Then He pointed out a little spot druggist in the United States. He
And said, “Tend that for Me.” explained that this feat is particu-

_ larly significant. in view of the fact
that Mr. Goodrum has been. forced

Friday, August 11, 1944

FACULTY CHANGES
(Continued frorn Page 1)
of the Music Department of Kent
State University, at Ként,, Ohio.
Prof. Osborne came to Davidson
in August 1941 and has served in
the capacity of assistant prdfessor
of the Music Department since that
date. During the stay of the 24th
College Training Detachment, Army
Air Forces on the Campus, he
taught in the English department
while carrying a full amusic load.
During this summer-he has had the
supervision of-the college Y.M.C.A.
activities added to his already busy
schediile. '

COURT HOLDS MEETING
(Continued from Page 1)
dent of the student body, expressed
the sentiment of the upper classes
regarding the attitude which should
be evidenced by new students. He
then introduced Sam Hay, who in
turn introduced the newly appoint-
ed members of the Court of Con-
trol. These include, besides: Judge
Lowry.and Hay, Andy Owens, John
Hagan, Ed Ashby, and Bill Wysor.
Judge JLowry then took over and in-
troduced (?) -the-Freshmen who had
already been turned in for violation
of the rules, and who would con-
sequently be the first cases tried by
the new court 4

Mri-Osborne is organist and choir

] answered quickly, “Oh, no, not there; by the. war drainage of manpower
Wh Id . > | to operate his drug store atone, with
y, no one would ever sce, the holp of his wife.  “This-is a
No matter how well my work was done, ‘Usplendid example”, said Mayor Bea-
Not that little place for me.” / ty. “of supreme effort in the face
of unusual handicaps. Mr. Good-
_ ~~ frum’s excellent achievement in this
And the word He spoke, it was not;stern; drive was the result of his own per-
. _ __[ sonal solicitation from J2 tei. Bou
Ele answered me tenderly : i . every day during the campaign. Ite
“Qh, My. child, search that heart of thine; »| deserves the thanks of his fellows
Art thou working for them or Me? and the fine recognition he has ree
— Naz th littl lace ceived from all. over the nation”.
azare was a an ep , Cloyd S. Goodrum was a member
And so was Galilee. oi the Davidson Colleg¢ Class_oi

. . . 1914. Tle received his Pharimaceutica
It was by developing the thought in the above poem training, at te University of Marv-

thai Reverend Richard T. Gillespie, of Thomasville, Geor- | tand. and has served the college and
—gia, made his Vesper talk so timely and so inspirational | com™ity of Davidson continuous.
5 . . ! . ly for the past 30 years. His wiie.
to Davidson students. Mr. Gillespie was the first Vesper | who was formerly Miss Susans
speaker of the second term, and his remarks concerning | Thompson, a member of a prominent
. . s..,|{ local family, is a graduate of NC.
God's plan for each of our lives were most appropriate) wo in Greensboro. They have
for the begirming of this session’s study. three children, the youngest a son,
Cloyd. Jr. a V-12 studen: in wain-
The texc of the address was the tenth verse of the ie Nawy. ig now located a:
second chapter of Paut’s ictter to the church at Ephesus: | tray, X.Y. + Modest and of quiet
“Eor we are his workmanship, created ia Christ Jesus un- nfanner, Mr. Goodrum has two rol-
. oa , . ing passions, his family “ahd dhe
19 good works, which God hath before ordained that we | winning o° the war.
should walk in them.” Mr. Gillespie took the last part| Ie is aiso chairman oi the Meck-
of the verse first. stating that God had done a wonder ful |!°"” nrg Mharmacists tor the cur
thing. in making lis @lan tor cach individual's te “fl [Cadet Nurse Corps.
one has to do is to move into the plan, step by step.day lby AUTTCRE WADEE
doy. fl Seen eh oY SEPMAY ©. TP COULD BE WORSE
y. tlowever. we are given a choice, MO toreed into the: (Continued irom Page 2)

plan. It is a terrible thang to say “No™ io God. and we ‘cr Walking Weside him. In the
have only to look-at the human derclicts around us to sce | ettine Prot, Kim broughin -nex-
thai God's way is tire only way son had by chance walked up beside

Youth's impatience often makes it hard to sec the {PY the throat and’ say. George. this
is what lh would lik@to do io that j

plan of lite. {t takes a whole lifetime to enter into God's HO.” Kéeeabscotagh 2"

o

plan. And it can only be enitefed by giving the best in WS} Sonny Blain was down ar Queens. the anditori

—~God gave Eis best, Jesus, as an example. If the pian is |vllexe trying to germ date. The!

= . : . . : Pree + Jmntron said, “We do not allow or-
worth being in, which it certainly is, it’s worth working |“nary visiting Alan tak ny vourre |

for. ; | ot Alargaret’s relatives; °
Dr. Dwight M. Chalmers, of Durham, was the Ves- ves." replied Blain, “I'm ther

: Sod.” °
per speaker on Auguseo. Dr. Chalmers is well known ins arene maaan eae “DAF met
young people and student work in. North Carolina and!I'm very lsd incet your Um hee
Virginia, Using the eleventh chapter of Hebrews as his {other a
. . . . it has-been said the a former
text, he pictured the thrills and adventures of the Christian editoc of The. Davidsonian referred
life, urging those present not to enter into God's plan of 0 two. professors a: “bihulons old
wee . . - . soe Hies.” instead of — “hibliophiles.’
ate with an attitude of dispair, but to reyoce in. the oppor ‘PNGSE Morning the edifor, recetwed 4
tunities tor adventure in new welds. As did Abraham 7 [very wrathint protest. trom the
old times, the Christian embatks on a definite mission. |": nants Correction and ahek
« . . o. “oe . ogy. jOWCVCE, © saia something
full of unknown thrills, when he begins tis Chrisuan life. 35.1 “the professors <ire too fas
Not only is he on a mission, but he is a soldier in a theiiling |: Uo the editor's horPtr, the |

contiiet, the battle tor Christ. Finally. the thrill of a [PRMeF abain disimeuished himseli,
sand the statement appeared. “The

personal triendship with Jesus Christ, and the Bloriows | proiessors are two iast idiots,”
future which this triendship makes possible, are strong’) When # former editor was made
enough reasons to lead any man with the spirit of ad-|'0 “UME! Nis statement, “Halt oi

the professors are foals.” he printed,

venture in him into Christ's way of lire. “Halim of the professors are not

. se fio
In Chapel on August 8, the example of loshua’s in-|'°°°
vasion of the promised land was used as the basis for a|<en: his mother a telegram ai con-

talk oa the source of our courage ior living the Christian erattations ie oer day because
+ : : . . owas Os birthday.
life. The verse which gives us our assurance is found: in As your informal informer was

the first chapter of Joshua: ~“ .  .Be strong and of gooc|buming through Statesville in his

. we . : : © for | ROTC anitorm, he saw a young
courage; be not afrighted. neither be thou dismayed: fot army lieutenant slonched back

the Lord thy God ts with thee whithersoever thou goest.” against a wall waiting for a bus—
With men like Joshua to set the example, it is the A large water pipe extended over

eos . —,-- . . go . « phis head. whing to try ont a

duty and the privilege of each of us to seek first God S| snappy salute, the informer briskly
kingdom, and to fallow ilis will in all that we do, with| walked by and cencked tis hand to

éageriiéss and courage. his brow. The Lt. (who was def-
nitely the type the navy would refer

_ “A Jitde more strength of mind | ask: ~]to as a “ninety-day wonder”) woke
A little more patience for cach task : up in a daze, straightened tip like a

A little more calmness in my soul

Le « skyrocket, 2 ts skull in-
Lntil I reach my highest goal. skyrocket, and banged his skull in

to the pipe as he, was preparing to
A ‘little more courage, too for me: return the sabite—justlike he had
A little more faith in things, to be; been taught to do by the captain.

A little more cagerness of-hearr:— TO As the Lt. fell to th ‘de th
More at the finish than at the start. ae “ whe Sround, the
; : : ipformer rushed to him. Just as the
A little more listening when | pray; informer had prenounted him dead.
A little less wanting my own waye the brass-hat blinked his d
__ A little more longings to be Wike-Thee: whe, Beet ce ms eyes an

rthe-Freshman Class was held aiter

Dave. in time for Dave vo take him |,

We hear that Alired Scarborough

Thegkame evening the first mect-
ing was held at eight thirty in Phi
HHarlk-and-the -culpmts retumedt trom
the mecting considerably weighed
down by their penatties. Most of
the penalties consisted of writing
themes of varied length on varied
subjects. The gubjects of a few of
these themes follow: “Which does] Music at Union Theological Semi-
tg Most good in the world, the hole pnary, New York. He has majored
ina doughnut or the smell in lim-Jin organ and church miisie and held
burger cheese?"; “Why 1 am the! yvarions positions in the Middle West
lowést freshman on the campus.and ]and in New York state before com-
what } can do about it”; "The ef- Jing South. His teachers in’ organ
biect of halitosis upon romance.”. included such famous musicians as
Palmer Christian, University of
MPhigan: Marcel Dupre, Paris:
Clarence Dickinson, Brick Presby-
terian Church, New York. and Da-
vid Meck. Williams of St. Bartho-
lomews Church, New York City.

He holds membership in the SAE.
social fraternity, Phi Mu Alpha na-
Uional mugié fraternity, the Ameri-
can Guild of Organists. and the
Masonic--Order. Mr. and Mrs. Os-
borne and their thre¢_chiltiren ex
pect to léave for Kent eariy in Sep-
tember. :

director of the First Ptesbyterian
Church of Concord, N. C. where he
Tsao oga nized and hrected a
civic, chorus of one hundred voices.

A native. of lowa, Prof. Osborne
was educated at the University of
Michigan (M.A) and later received
the degree of Master oi Sacred

Several days later a meeting of

Chapel, at which time a thorough
quiz on the regulations, songs. and
yells was given. Results of this quiz
hive Not been released, but une
Oiticiak—reports are that quite at
few wen will appear at the next
session. of the Court to answer ton
‘their mistakes,

Atnong the reqnirements which all
Freshmen must observe are: -

; T a :
1. Wear arm band of red rib-

ben at ali times. °

_ ry _
COURT OF CONTROL
(Continued trom Page 3)
men around the dormitories, pester-
TC Ving them, yelling: at them. ind in’
- general iniuriating them. were on
5e'Show proper respect toupper fihe Court. one or wo men like
classmen, ~ — that could cum ow. In fact: they
& Remain seased alter Chapc! [don't even have to be on the Court
wntal all upper-classmen have leit io se antagonize the freshmen as

Neep off the praass,
3. Carty Taimdry when request
ed to do so by npper-classmen
ot Speak to everyone on i
campus. _ " ~

wn. So =" {te make them rebellious and “de-,
Tie Court held its second mect- | sirious of revenge. This is the worst
ing on Monday pight. August 7:]sort ef thing gor the Court. Fresh-
and resus were obvious when.} mene arent here to be teased and
carly Tuesday moming. many Fresh- | chided: they're here to be made
Men Agere seen walking stours at |iriends, and men of. [ts a task to
various pasts on the campns. the done. not aefiorm of amusement
Themes similar to those assigned; for upperclassmen who don't have
atthe first mecting were again gv fany studying to do and have al-
en us penalties, and several of the ready seen the show.
offenders were put “on campus”| As a whole the freshmen have
tor short periods. — — shawn good respect and tine co+.
lh is hoped tha: all stndems will[operation sinee tie maugaration ot

eooperate in seeing that the reagu-}the Court. The sooner ali of them

lauions are observed, and Violations | realize that the Court isn here for

‘Teparted. Only by cooperation ean its own amusement, then the: bet-

the work ‘of the Cotirt be carried (ter their response will be. That -i-
out in the proper manner, and the | the duty of the Court and the re-
\radetions of Tbavitisan be perper- maining members of — the. upper
uated. eo classes. ~~

peal DUCTS
eanvtts AND POTATO Ciips

SWINSON Food PRODUCTS

CHARLOTTE,.N.C. ——7

Irask now on bended knee.” uttered, “Well, major, it could -be
--Roma G. Yarmy. . worse!” ,

- - a = Los

