Henry T. Lilly
Weds Quietly
Last Saturday

‘English Professor Marries
Miss Grace Green
In Winston-Salem

The wedding of Miss Grace White
Greene, of Ronda, N. C., to Henry
Tracy Lilly, Professor of English,
took place last Saturday in -Win-
ston-Salem.

Mrs. Lilly, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Granville K. Greene, of Ronda,
has taught English in the New Han-
over High School in Wilmington,
N. C., for the last three years, and
resigned recently, planning to be-
gin post-graduate work at the Uni-
versity of Nortty Carolina. Saas

Professor Lilly, son of the late
Dr. D. Clay Lilly, Presbyterian
minister who was located in Win-
ston-Salem for more thatt 20 years,
graduated from Davidson with an A,
B. Degree, in 1918. While in college
he was editor-in-chief of “Quips: &
Cranks,” annual, and a
member of Phi Beta Kappa. A few
years later he received ‘an
from Princeton University, and has
since studied at the University of
Chicago and the University of North
Carolina. Since 1926 he has taught
Englsh at Davidson, and has re-
céntly been appointed director of
the Grey Memorial Library in the
absence of Dr. Chalmers G. David-
son, who is stationed at Great
Lakes, Mich., in the Navy.

The Lillys. took a brief honey-
moon at the beginning of this week,
and expect a more extended one
at the close of school in May. They
plan to live in Davidson. Since]
Professor Lilly is censor of The
Davidsonian, in addition to his other
duties, and was away while the
paper went to press, no guarantee

college

as to the purity of this issue is made.

Halt Of Church Goal
Already Subscribed

More than half ofthe $250,000
goal set in the campaign for build-
ing anew. church ‘on the campus
has already been subscribed, it, was
announced by President John R.
Cunningham, 355

Several weeks ago, the campaign
was presented to the ministers of

North Carolina, and last Sunday
members of the faculty spoke in
churches throughout the state.inJ.

behalf of the new college church.
Among those who spoke to Caro-
lina congregations were Dr. Walter
L. Lingle, Dr. C. M.—Riehards, Dr.
P. H. Gwynn, Mr. Frank. Jackson,
Professor E, A. Beaty, Dr. Frontis
Johnston, Rev. Carl Pritchett, and
Dr. Cunningham.

Dr. Cunningham said that.a great
many individual gifts being
received, and that some congrega=
tions were planning to pool their
gifts for a special area. of the
“church. One of these, (the members
of Caldwell Memorial
Charlotte,) hopes to able
cover the cost of the chapel.

N

FRIDAY:
3:30 p. m.—Baseball game—Dav-
idson vs. V. P. I. in stadium.
5:30 Pp. m.—Pan-Hellenic Picnic
on golf course.
9:30-1:30—Formal Dance in High
School Gym with Ervin Hinkle’s
Orchestra.
Fraternity houses open until late.

SATURDAY:

were

Church {in

be to

CALENDAR

3:00 p. m.—Baseball game—Dav-

idson vs. V. P. I. in stadium.
8:00-12:00—Informal
High. School Gym.
SUNDAY:
11:15 a. m.—Church service with
Rev. Carl Pritchett as preacher.
7:30 p. m.—Vesper service with
Rev. Walser Allen of Moravian
Church, Kernersville, as speaker

Dance in

M. A.|.

Asin N:D Ask UX 3B i= OR TA. --L BBR

The Davidsontan

TAS

Vol. XXXI

DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1944

No. ll

GETS DE
of the U.
just presented him by President John R. Cunningham.
Melville Broughton looks on.

Amid _ his

the Martin

Ed Patterson
Leaves Today

Y Secretary Accepts Job In
Cleveland, Ohio

Edgar Patterson, secretary of the

Vireo Weed Ong Wrsen 3 (HI

tomorrow to accept a position

the research department of the Na-

leave Davidson

tional Carbon Company in Cleve
y land, Ohio,
EE—Major General Norman T. Kirk, Surgeon-General Patterson, who graduated last

. Army“is shown above with the degree of Doctor of Science

Science
formally dedicated at Davidson Col-
lege the afternoon of April 14.

The prominent visitors who had
arrived in*Charlotte during the fore-
noon, were gtiests of the College
at a luncheon for the Mecklenburg

lege authorities.

Dedication

sided at the luncheon.

When the visitors arrived at Dav-
idson in the afternoon, they were
met at the Guest House by the Col-
Under a military
escort of honor, they were taken to
Richardson Stadium where Generals

February, has held the position of
Y Secretary
graduation he was president of the
ay

silon, honorary chemistry fraternity,

Governor J.

since that time. Before

pyesident of Gamma Sigma Ep

Success

and he is a member of Omicron Del

= i ta Kappa. He graduated with a
toric and colorful sur- | Governor J. Melville Broughton and B.S DI ; : bs :

‘i Ms : Ni fiat 2 1 B.S. in chemistry -
roundings and attended by indivi. |President—Cunninghant—oeceupteds RTE RTS E NI MSE CU ERTAE
— ameter . \. f oug : is certs as

uals p i i : : _|the reviewing stand while the 24th , ak ‘
duals prominent in state and nation g ip jes Weenueepereak ery Pau sa Paar

College Training Detachment staged
a formal parade

Building was Dartkreahiepeote ton bel working
At the-conclusion

B ; - | with a group of other eminent scien-
of this revlew by, the Army Air \ u

tists of
graphite at-extremely high tempera

on the problem purifying

Forces, the Reserve Officers Train-

ing Corps conducted the party to Ate iy 3 4
i tures. The National Carbon Com
the south court where the formal ia ay oa
Rees : pany, a subsidiary firm of Union
dedication exercises were pers

Carbon and Carbide, makes earbon

Radical: Sdciety arr »y | formed. :
Bea Society at the Barringer electrodes for batteries and anany
‘la aie rey The? ea tic ‘ P " > Pres: * 7
otel at noon. _Dr. Oren Moore, a Phe invocation wa made by Pres other uses. “It won't be building
prominent Davidson alumnus and jident-Emeritus Walter 1. Lingle. hattleships,”.. Patterson said, “but
President of the, Association, pre-|Dr. James A; Jones of Charlotte

oes we will make some of the stuff that
read a significant passage from the

scriptures. The
consisted of a Litany of dedication
President Cunningham led the Lit
any and the audience made a formal

makes them run.”

dedication service} -AS yet no plans have been: made
for filling Patterson’s spost. Buddy
Vells, the Y. last

year, plans to return to school this

president of

response. This part of the service

‘summer, and will take over a large
was concluded by the prayer of de-

part of the Y work. There is doubt

Three Seniors, ‘Two
Graduates Tapped
[By Leadership. Frat

Daniel, Smith, Bradford,
Woods, Mr. Payne
Receive Bids

Dr.

In its annual’spring tap day held
Thursday, April 20,-at the
Delta

cron Delta Kappa, national honor-

repwular

chapel hour, circle of Omi-

ary leadership fraternty. honored
three seniors and two faculty mem
bers with bids,

The five men honored were C. T.
Daniel, Dill
Mr. John L.

Woods. :

Smith, Bob Bradford,

Payne and Dr. James

Speaker at the «tapping service
was “Dr. Henry Louis’ Smith, past
president of Davidson College and
of Washington and Lee University,
and—ette-of—tre-ortennt-tomnders-of
OD K. Dr. Smith told how, in an
effort to organize the active leader-
ship of Washington and Lee, he and
Dr. William M.

Brown, professor

of psychology at W. and TL. had
votten together a group of out
standing students in 1914 and
launched-the first chapter of O DI.

The five fields from which men arc

chosen for outstanding leadership

are social leadership and service,

publications, athletics, cholastic

achievement, and forensic and non

athletic work, Dr. Smith said that

the purposé of an organization ot

leaders was to push soni

project

forthe-improveiient-of-the

Norman’-?;—kKirk, james~S: Sim |dicition pronounced by President |whether a seertary will be needed ——— SAGER me
mons and Fred Wu Rankin, uowith Content onary TE fl Sa WN Circle at. Davidson Ww (
= 2 > first chapter in the country, being
EXAMINATION SCHEDULES founded in 1917.
Wed A. M.ROTC 12, 22 Activities
May Sy @laude Daniel, of Oxford, N.\¢
17 P. M.German 42, History 12A, Latin 22, Philosophy 32 was co-captain of the football team
Thrs. A. M, Bible 12A, Chemistry 32, 42B, English 32, Latin 12, Mathematics 12B, Sociology 32 laSt fall, and an outstanding guard
May © : : He is a member of the Pan-Hellenic
18 P. M.Chemistry 92, German 12B,-Spanish 12C, Physics 21 Couneil of Kappa Alpha, national
History 32 social fraternity. ’
Fri. A. M.Bible 12C, F, Chemis 2, ics Tnali >
May eh Chemistry 82, Economics 22, English 11A, 12F Bill Snrith, of Princeton, W. Va.,
19 P. M. Mathematics 22, Music 12, Political Science 52, Spanish 22 is manager of the Student Store,
> . : F treasurer of the Pan-Hellenie Coun
Sat. A. M. Applied Mathematics 42, Bible 12B, 12E, Biology 42, Chemistry 42A, English’ 12A, 12. ; A
May : : : : cil, treasurer of Beta Theta Pi
20 P. M. French 32, German 12A, History 72, Spanish 42 social fraternity, and social chair
M A. M man of the Y, M. C. A. cabinet.
on. A. M.

* May Bob Bradford, of Davidson, wa
22 P. M. Bible 12D, Biology 12A, Business~42, Chemistry 22A, English 12C, French 42 elected president of the Senior cla
Tues. A. M.Geography 42, Greek 22, Music 42, Philosophy 62, Physics 22B, Spanish 22A in February. He is president of th
May Davidson Chapter of Sigma Phi
23 P. M.Philosophy 42, 52, Physics 22A, 32, Psychology 32, Spanish 12B EN Epsilon social fraternity.

Wed. A. M. Biology 12B, Chemistry 22B, English 92, Math-4d1A, 12E ~* Dr. James B, Woods, college phy
May res ; ,
i 5 : ; sician, graduated from Davidson in

Daa P. M. Bible 22D, Economics 62, Geography 22, History 12B, Music 22, Mathematics 12A sss sence

= 1918. He received an M.D). degres
Thurs. A. M. from the Medical Colles: of
May eotigl i ‘had
i 4 . Virginia and was a medical mis
25 P. M.English 22B, French 12; Greek 12, Mathematics 12C, Psych. 42 seseitiae cinch. tee tae AB
~ sionary to China until the Heginnis
ie A.M. Bible 22C, 52, Biology 32, English 22C, 62, French 22 of the present war.
May
26 P.M. John L. Payne is Alumni Seét¢
tary and Director sof Public "Rt
Classes of secoud semester engMon Tuesday May 16th—12:50 P. M. ta q : ; = : sch .
Courses not listed are to be arranged by professors concerned, BUD NE CLOTHE SOLER G. € ve
- Morning examinations begin at 9:00 A. M. uated from Davidson with the Class
Afternoon examinations begin at 2:00 P. M. of 1916)and returned in his present

capacity in 1942,
