Page Two ‘

The PWavidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

JIM ALEXANDER

J. S. Blain _..

Jim) Lowry—as... le. oe.
Robert Morrison ...
George Gunn

Editar’
~ Sports Editor
Managing Editor

. Staff Photographer

Assistant

Joe Stukes

- Circulation Manager
Jack “Lazenby “_.

Advertising Manager

- oe 3 -
Entered we vetond class matter at the Post Office at

Davidson, North Carolina, under ‘the act of March 3, 71879.
—T 4

= _—_

_.. SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. SOcts. the Summer Session

Printed by The --—
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPHROFMIED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING OY

National Advertising Service, Inc. - —
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON AvE. New YorK, N.Y

Cuicago.: Bosron - LOB ANGELEY + San FRANCISCO

/
This paper is the ofjicial history of college life,
and-is a medutin of student and faculty opinion.
As such it) welcomes any. contributions or com-
munications to it, provided such does not contain
derogatory fetercuce cto faculty or students, pro-
fanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All
_—_thaterial inust beinth itor-s hams ktonday
nieht Of ie week thatitisto-be-printed, and tbe
-ceditor reserves the right to reject part or all of any
contribution or conumunication. . "

THE DAVIDSONIAN announces with regret
the resignation of Associate Editor Lamar Wil-
liamson, but takes pride in the fact that another

member of the staff has taken his place in the
armed forces of our country. Lamar’s services
will be missed, but our best wishes go with him

for his new life in the Army Air Corps.

Court of Contral ...

A brief survey of the Y. M. C. A,
Handbook gives an idca of the directing
hodies of student coritrol of the various
phases of student activity. There are the
Student Council, Y Cabinet, the Pan-Hel-
lenic Council, the Publications Board, the
Ilections Loard, sports managers. cheer
leaders, the Student Store Board of Con-

trol, musical organizations, and the Hlon-

orary l*raternity Council. That is qaite
an array of organizations which by their
natures direct and supervise various see
tions of the campus life. This complex
systen Of Uoards and councils would
certainly seem sufficient; yet there is an-
other with which everyone is familiar,
possibly too familiar in some cases—the
Court of Control. Docs the Court de-
serve to have a respected place along with
these others? The answer to this quest-
ion may best be found in the manner in
which the members of the Court of Con-
trol execute their responsibilities and in
what fashion the upperclassmen lend their
support to the Court.

The Court of Control hardly needs any
justification beyond its actual existence
at Davidson, where everything is care-
fully planned. What is a college without
old customs and traditions and how can
they be passed on more effectively than by
the Court? As has been said too many
times already, the present shortage of up-
perclassmen makes the situation even
more acute. For anyone who has seen
several freshmen classes come in, get in-
doctrinatecd, and become a part of David-

4

‘ rigerous treatment.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Son, it is rather evident that the present
crop of freshmen is the slowest yet to
pick up ““Davidsonism,” not through any
fault of their own or of anyone else—
unless it's Elitler. The Court has already
done some valuable work in teaching the
new men the old facts and in helping to
keep Davidson the same for the boys who
will someday return.

Freshmen, collectively, if not individu-
ally, are always somewhat conceited after
having just been the big shots in prep
schools and high schools. Most of them
need a lite help in settling down to a
lower clevation of personal esteem. A
few well placed words and firm control
ordinarily sutlice to render theza humble.
Always there have to be a few obnoxious
tellows who could Uo with a lite more
The upity freshman
becomes the trouble making sophomore.
Though the Court may not be the most
pericct psychological solution to the higk
and mighty freshman problem, it carn-cx=
ert a well defined corrective influence on

these individuals.
Ceyitramed im next Column)

Gymndsium vs. Armory. .

~ Many years ago there was erected at
Davidson an impressive cdilice called a
Gymnasium (in the common man’s venac- -
ular, agym). Itis said by many that this
building was built for the purpose of pro=-
iding athtelie facilities Tor the student
body. For many years the gym has ad.
inirably served its purpose and though it.
is at present slightly obsolete it could still
serve tts purpose.
Then too at Davidson there was erect
ed a building which was considered by the
faculty to adequately serve the purposes
of the Military Department. This build

JESTINGS

By JUSTA JOAK

Come Monday: ,
Hurry up there and fall in--on
the double.” And thus starts another.
day of horror and tortere in ROTC.
Drilling is bad enough by itself bat
when you get ‘out on the steaming
drift field and count cadence at the
top of your longs while marehing
Past the waier trough and then can't
get water -that’s torture. [i you
shoald happen to ask the sergeant
why you cant so for water he

——would teli yott fo go to—— see the

captain. Aad if you shoud be brave
and inquisitive enough to ask the.
caprain he world teil von that tor

ders is orders”. So there you are
thiesty, hot, tired, scared ‘to tlk
dack, and.mad as yon can gec. Sud-
denly you say to vouself, "II swear
this is the d est thing [ve ever
heard of. tf water is too expensive
Fil give.‘em a quarter.” Then the
order comes. “Form three squads to

go on extended order.’ ‘Youn walk _

over. to your squad and as von fall
in the boy next to yon lets ont a
hinady yell. tI've got to have some
water.” This appeal is like talling

-to a brick wall, for instead of being

given water he is given a tour to

walk immediately after drill. You. -

drag yourself out on the fictd proh-
lem. _Throngh the woods, doubie
time over meadows, over fences, and
eross diiches ‘suit thinking how
mueh yor would like to kill whoever
said “no water". When yor (finally
tinish your march there are onty
ten lett in your sqnad. Two ‘have
passed out hecause they. were jo
thirsty. -Yor stumble baek to the
drill tictd and form to mareh in
When the company is disinissed you
are very muehk relieved, but then
staddenly you think of ceil Wednes-

» back over the Tine.

Friday, August 11, 1944

lt Could
Be Worse

By ROBERT MORRISON

Everyone at some time during his
life has experienced a complete
mortification. Take for example the
time Potts Tlorton met Mrs. Cald-
well face to face as he was return-
ing to his room-after a shower.

Since every man that breathes has
had an embarrassing occasion of
note. your infortaal informer has

been making a delailed effort to |

acquire these tales and record them
tor posterity. -A number of David-
son gentlemen Were interviewed and

Fassiig thing whieh has ever hap-
pened to you?"

Most of them were rather reluct-
ant io release for publication their
cherished and careiWly xnarded |
tales of woe. However, the glamor
of puip and ink coupled with your
intormer'’s dogged persistence. ul-
limately overeame the fear and
inodesty, and is evidenced in some
of the following corns: .

it scents that Jim Robinson used

to have two girl which he ioved-
very much: He kad sworn to cach
that she was lus one and only. He

chad father prided himself on the

quality of wool which he had patted
over their eves. Furthermore. his
two lassies. Mary and Jane, were
rather, clase acquaintances. Ves
Jim was holding his ego on the top
shelf. Now one night our Davidson
brother was in the mood for a date..
Flipping a coin, he called jane. She

ihad_an_excuse,_so_he deeided-to—

phone Mary. Somehow Jim got his
numbers switched, and phoned Jace
again but this time inquired, "Is
that you, Mary darling" 1t took
fim several minutes lo discover why
such a sharp “Wrong Number" fol-
dJowed by a deatening click came
So lim foathes
women: you can't live with them
and you can't live without them and
the daw won't let you shoot ¢hem.”

asked, “What was the most_entbar-___.
_Sared SN nal was i

Rob Hollmeer was scheduled to

deliver a trombone solo before a

ing commonly called the Armory, also day and thea you are gloomy again rather considerable audience. His

served its purpose for many years.

Now the Military Department has
found it necessary to move its headquar
ters from the armory to the gym. It is
not up to us to ask why this change in
offices was made but-what effect will it
have on the athletic inclinations of: the
student body. As the situation row
stands it seems that the students will only
be allowed in the gym at such times as will
not disturb the minds of the military tac-
ticians, now to all intents comfortably
housed in the gym.
means that students will be allowed in the
gym only at night.

These are two plausible solutions
whereby the students might be allowed to
pursue their athletics in the daytime.
First the military could stuff cotton in
their ears and blithely ignore the noise
made by the athletic aspirants. This
solution. we admit, would not be too
satisfactory to the mind of Major Marsh
and his subordinates, but the fact remains
that other officers have worked through

because of the sure torture you are
certain to endure.
use?

So what's the

~

The characters of vhis column are

purely, ficticious. Anyone proving

semblance to any character in

any way will be given a gallon of
water, ' .

COURT OF CONTROL
(Continued from Col. 2)
Hazing of new men must ‘date
way back in history, certainly .be-

yond the time of the earliest insti-— i" his pants behind him.

tution of higher—learning. It is
almost one of man’s inherent quali-

This, of course. — ties -to-wish to show ‘the ‘neopiyté

who is boss. In a negative sort of
way the Court :is of vatue in this
connection. There is going to be
hazing regardless, even if it amounts
to no more than passive resistance
to the newly arrived. This organi-
zation allows for the realization of
the upperclassman’s desire to leave
his imprint on the. freshman both-
literally and figuratively, but it
holds this action in the bounds of
teason and directs it along more
useful lines.

The Court gives the freshman
something to talk about in his spare
time. When he goes home, he can
tell wild tales about the ferocity of

time arrived, and he stiffly marched
up stage, placing a wad of music on
the stand. A strong drait whispered
through the window and whisked
the music sheets up to the ceiling,

_ letting them fall_at. regular intervals

throughout the auditorium. Hollin-
ser, sensing a catastrophe, leaped-
from the stage and made a mad dash
in order to recover his Property. As.
he was tearing down .the aisle, his
pants were caught on the edge of a
seat and ripped off a sizeable strip.
Hollinger rushed for the door, leav-
A little
boy, wishing to be helpful to the
musician, picked up the residue of
the pants, proudly walked up on the
stage, and—presented the shréds to
the conductor.

When Sam Hay was asked for his
most embarfassing moment, he re-
plied, “Everything embarrasses me,
but [ was‘ most embarrassed when
[ tried to explain to Mrs. Goldiere
a joke which was in the last issue
of The Davidsonian.”

“RB. B.” Brown came forward with
a yolunteer story about his ordeals
on a crowded pullman. Three girls
from Concord were compelled to
occupy the same lower berth. As
one was returning to the berth for

‘a rather late retiring, she remarked,

“Well, [ guess we're going to have

the holicant caused by a few innocent boys he Judge and the ‘severity of his to sleep SPOON fashion tonight.”

trying to play a game of basketball.

_.. Sentences,

ket to be an upperclassman, he en-

Second, since the military moved to the —/9¥* his position the more ior hav-

gym, the gym might move to the armory.

Surely the military has not increased in_

ing had some trials on the. way up.

lt even gives some a feeling of __ hastened- back—to the right nest. >

having accomplished something. The

When he«does: finally:

A deep voice replied, “That suits -
me just fine.”

Horror-stricken to find herself in
the wrong berth, the frenzied girl

In the morning a young army lieut-

size so much this summer that they need °"* sad-note that enters here is enant passed by her at the breakfast

all the space in both the armoéry and the
gym. Considering the fact that neither
one of these two solutions would suit any-

‘body in particular, all we would like to

know is why a game of basketball would

that all too many of our boys must
leave before they become sopho:
mores. The Court undoubtedly

takes things like this into considers

ation in its dealings with the men
they find it necessary to try.

table and carefully laid a spoon in
her tap.

Dave Marshall was walking along
the street with George Apperson.
Dave was so engrossed in discussing
the unfair grades he had received

“Everything about _the Court_is__from Prof, Kimbrough, that ‘he did~

disturb anyone anyway
- - 4

_. = -1

“Notso rosy, however. Many peo-
~ (Continued on Page 3) |

£

not notice that George was no long-

_ (Continued on Page-4)——~——
