ITH THE
ILDCATS

By JIM LOWRY

Well, Basketball season is over and Duke is once again 5S.
C. Champ.’ The Navy-laden Blue Devils pulled one of the sea-
sons biggest upsets when they clipped the supposedly great
Tarheels, 44-27. Not only did they beat them but they made

fools out of them. The amazing Gordon Carvel, walking
around like a- professional wrestler, made
Bennie Mack look like a high sehool kid.

Mack’s high voice, which is always very shrill,
rose two more octaves, and he was:soon shoot-
ing out of the bleachers. Perhaps the two
biggest disappointment outside of the Caro-
lina debacle were the Cats’ heart-breaking loss
to VP. T. and South Carolina’s sudden with-
drawal from the tournament. There was tot

much interest in the tourney this year, but
that was easily understandable. There were
Lowry no outstanding courtmen as were Tommy

Peters, Barbs McFadden, and Bob Spessard
in past years,
Duke is going to the Invitational Tourney at Madison
Square this month.’ They ought to do pretty well if

Wildcat Sports

SPRING SPORTS
START

Friday, March 10, 1944

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Three

Court Data
Is Reviewed

Cagers Won 16, Lost 7 In
Past Season
After the season is over some

people are interested in seeing just
how the team came gut as regards
won and lost and points
Here is the information

ames

scored

ne Defeated

In First Game
Of Tournamt

On Thursday, February 24, the
Wildeats — of Davidson — offic ially
opened the Southern Conference

; ea
Pournament at Raleigh by playing
Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Be

fore game time, Datidson was giv

a lot if. not all of these boys once again showing their wares

against schools like Duke and Geargia Tech and beatitg their!

pants off.

Whatever

Your Needs

SUITS

HATS

SHIRTS

PAJAMAS

SOCKS

TIES

SHOES

and the 101 other things

SHOP

EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR

“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”

they play like they did against Carolina. The last time Davideon Orecnente omen piven er reriatr ere oeae ip pati
they played in the Garden, L. I. U. beat them 59-57 in an 33 2s CU Mesh ye Cee NOR Ee
overtime game, and Gordon Carver set the Year’s high 54 Y) Morris Field |“ Se & way) |
score with 27 points. It seems to a lot of people that a 25 Charlotte Y | Preved to be anybody's ball game.
Maryland, Richmond, and William and Mary came to 5 24 Catawba|  V. P. 1. pulled off to a quick lead
Raleigh just for the ride. Maryland didn’t seem to care ye SI Catawba | and held the upper’ hand. for the
if they-won or not, and Richmond played a good game 60 19 Morris Field | first half, ‘The score at half time
against the hot Tarheels, but William and Mary had a3 4 Catawba cdeto 10) Durinectie eecond
nothing whatsoever. ta 43 Carolina period,’ Davidson pulled back: into
: o) 30 Morris Field] the game, led by Jim Lowry, J. D
The county tourney in Charlotte produced a couple of pretty 67 38 Cul anelital are eek au ay ee RNC ona
good ball players. MeCall from Bain and a tall skinny boy OO 34 Gairoraly catiane atcalvaly Bit eas
named Burgess from Huntersville who would like to «come 53 37 Gamarsutton lcs ecases Tew tiniiinc dane
to Davidson were outstanding. Davidson College has PLOs Of 40 Charlotte Y |ayith the Giteamé in doalit up te
“duced in the past two or three decades some very outstanding 6 » Gollede etl tesenee sea rierme-or lig
athletes, but just during the past two or three there have been Charteston| a. s;
some great ballplayers here and some very thrilling plays. 47 43 Gindeil the game neared the end, the
Two years ago Dave Spencer played football here and_who 40 43 Carolina | COPS Was tied at-34:34 with 3 min-
will forget the great runs he made against schools like Duke, » 92 Preflight | Uo 8t9 80.. VP. 1 hag the ball
Carolina and State. Who will forget Claude Hackney’s scin= 33 42 State | 17 UF court and for 2 minutes
tilatting 96 yard run against Duke, to tie the Blue Devils 13-13 r) 38 Clemson | £02¢ the ball a hen, with one min-
at the half. Then there was Ed Lucas, for seven innings. as 41 x” State} utes to go. Ve PLT had the. bail
good a pitcher as there was in the conference, holding Caro- 31 54 State | it for a one-handed shot from the
lina to four hits until two men were out in the ninth, then 37 51 Gainwn foul’ line. The Davidson players
losing because of errors. Or who will forget Arch Taylor, the 34 38 Vv. p, 1.] Were frantic and trying desperately
ace hurler, who won all the hurdle events at the Southern : to ‘get the ‘ball. Lowry fouled in
Conference track meet. All of that was two years ago. Last Games won See eecee 16] the attempt and the V. P. [. player
year there was the brilliant Tom Peters, Davidson’s first |Games lost —.-.--._- 7} missed his free throw. Davidson
four letter man in year who was stamped as one of the {Total Points —--_____- 1090] took the ball down on a fast“break
finest ends inthe conference, voted the most outstanding Average points per game- ~ 47 | and had-it-intereepted._D.-Freder-
basketball player in the Southern Conference tourney and Conference games won__ 3} ick, player for V. Po 1. was playing
honorable mention for all-American. Then besides “Tommy | Conference games lost- 5] snowbird and added two more points
there was his brother George, who made three letters and | Total opponertts’ points. 859] for the Virginian’s cause. This
who helped Tom to produce the finest brother act in Ameri-|Opponents’, average per game . 37} made the final score read Davidson
can colleges last year. Then who will forget the humorous
incidents like Red Burke stealing second base up of Caro- || PHONOGRAPH RECORDS M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
lina with the bases loaded in the ninth inning and the Cats
one run behind. Things like that are characteristic of. the | Parker-Gardner Co. ___ General. Merchandise. _
—Witteatsanet the Prookivir Dodge Mere is” a fervent :
hope that in the not too far distant future, we will be able to || 118 West Trade St. Charlotte DAVIDSON, N. C.
look out on the gridiron, court, diamond, and track, and see

Compliment-

Getting

TWEED —
SUITS

For Spring

Rich-looking tweeds in
the herringbone and
diagonal y weaves that
appeal to! college men.
All wool —fabrics in
blue and brown. 3-but
ton

275°, 8S

models.

BELK
BROS.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

i
|

Davidson Track Squad Shapes Up

Team Plans
Six Meets

Turnbull, Smith, Baird Only
Lettermen Back

Coach Pete Whittle’s 1944 Wild

eat track squad is rapidly round-

ing-into shape for the coming cam

paigns on the cinder path, in spite

of unfavorable weathers conditions.

With three letter-winers to rely

upon, the Davidson coach ean mus-

ter more experienced men than any
other varsity squad has been able
to boast this year. Lennox Vurn-

bull, of Richmond, Virginia, one of

the returning lettermen, is a pole

vaulters as well as a discus and

shot-put artist. The other two, Bill
W
W.D Baird, of Davidson, will carry
field

Smith, of Prinetton. Va. and

on in the

100

events former in

the and 220-yard dashes, and

the latter in the 880.) The rest of

the J0-man

freshmen

squad. is composed of

and untried upperclass-

men,

In spite of this, Whittle says that

many of these novice performers
have shown up exceedingly well in
early drills, Earl Spaugh, of Chiar-
lotte,.a frosh trackster, has shown
Promise with the Paul
Washington, D. C.,
a second-semester freshman, was
listed among top high-hurdlers, and

Dexter Witherington, of Mt. Olive,

javelin
Richardson, of

has demonstrated his versatility by

performing: equally — well the

the

on

sprints and high and broad
jump.
The
dual

rivals—two with

take
four traditional
N. C. State, two
with) Clenison, one with Catawba,
‘and one with byterian. The
tates not
been

An

has

Cats will part in six
meets with

Presbyterian
these
definitely set.

for events have
track meet
for March 9
held wf the
Whittle hopes to
this

inter-fraternity
been scheduled
10, will
Weather is good.
talent
annual expression of campus rival-

and and he

discover some through

ry. The preliminaries in the 100-
and 220-yard dashes, the low hur-
dles,
broad jump will be held on Thurs-
with the all, events
on the following day. Bill Smith,
who is not eligible to participate,

the shot and discus, and the

day finals in

will serye as starter.

34—V

hehe Sue slau

stars for V. P..I. were Harry Bush
kar (C.), Henry Caravali, and D.
Frederick, who made first string

center on the All-Tournament team
Other
out in their steady play were Bob

Davidson “then ‘who stood

Flowers, Fréeman Jones, and Sam-
my Hay.

Much credit is due these fellows

| Tournament

who really gave all they had in the
all

and through—the
regular Season.

Recruiting officer. « “When was

your hifthday 2”

Recruit (sullenly): |“Wot duh
you care? You ain't gonner give
me nothin'!"

Dr. Sentelle to Bible class: And
where was Christ born,’ Gentlemen:

Lowry? In-Birmingham, sir

Dr. Scntelle NG Mr Lows i
| Bethlehem

Lowry: Aw, I knew it was one

fathGeaxetaalaowl
