Page Two

~The Bavidsonian —

THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 11, 1944

as to carry on a tradition, that publication will
be continued.

Founded By the Class of 1915

Published twice a month during the academic year
by students of Davidson College

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $.75 the Collegiate year

REPALSENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING DY

Natianal Advertising Service, Inc.
Colleze Publishers Act esentative .

420 MADISON AVE, New York. N.Y

Crieduo - Poston - LOS ANCELA3 + SAN FRANCISCO

Post Office
March: 3.

Entered as second-class matter at the
Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of

at
18797

‘

& ‘ :
DAVE RICHARDSON wee-e-ee EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

DEXTER WITHERINGTON .........-..BUSINESS MANAGER

a EDITORIAL STAFF
“John Ashe .........2.-.-

Lamar: -Williamson—-e...

----. Assistant Editor

~-Associate_Editor.

George Apperson -- News Editor
Clayton Scofield
Jim. Love ~..-........---
Ray Miller ....-....

Sam Ervin .

wee ee ee ene Feature ‘Editor
npreenee Managing Editor
cascesee-- Managing Editor
eos naneeneeeese- Managing Editor
Jim Lowry . ...--Sports Editor

Weille: -- i eee

__Kurt -Staff Photographer

Debut ....

With his issue The Davidsonian makes its
belated 1944 debut. It is notthe usual dashing
journalistic sally into a waiting collegiate
world, we fear, but rather a timorous venture
into a diminished sphere with clouded future.

a

Several interested, we hope. subscribers
have inquired as to the iuture of this puhlica-
tion, and,.not haying a crystal ball, we are torc-
ed to admit that the question has worried us
and all the editors since the war started.
The shortage of paper and other materials is
not felt nearly so much as is the shortage of
students, both as members of the staff, and of
the student body, the source of most oj the
news.

Our only answer is that we plan to con-
tinue publication as long as is practicable, and
to do all we can to maintain the standards of
The Davidsonian of former years,-and to lay
the way for a better paper after the war. Since
the yearbook and humor magazine have dis-
appeared for. the duration, the newspaper is
one of the few extra-curricular activities for
which the students volunteer, most of the rest

_ being elective. It is for this reason, as well

His not our-policy to.apologize for oursvork
or to solicit compliments in any form, but the
editor feels that the reduced staff that has con-
sented to tackle the jobs connected with com-
piling material for this paper, when the hope
of gaining recognition in the form of cditor-
ship has been practically eliminated in each
case. deserves his thanks and those of the
student body.

by ED. PATTERSON. |

+l Friend! Drop in and do some,
Y-work sometime soon. Now I am

officially qualified to make such

statements. Yes, Shaw left a deep
impression on the Y and on the
campus: Sorry I don't have 9 reper-
‘toire of tricks to offer; that was
Colin’s particular added attraction
to the office. But, the _Y_is still
iipererrios
your Y—use it as much as you can.

Game Rooms ;

In that respect, comments are in
order about the game rooms. Ping
pong is going strong. We've just
got a couple of new paddles and a
new ping pong ball. . The pool table
should be recovered. and in playing
shape very soon. By the way, please
ask someone who knows how when
you come in to learn to play pool—
these covers are expensive.

New Men

Fifteen new men entered David-
son February 2. They are all good
men—you ought to get to know
them soon, take it from me. Of
course it takes a little time to set-
tle down and feel at home in a new
place. I know that these ncn will
appreciate a friendly handshake
and a little encouragement from
‘time to time. It also takes.a little
time to learn new names. Don’t
feel bashful, “fellers”; make your-
selves known to these newcomers.

The problems of coverage will naturally be
more difficult, and we would like to ask the
continued co-opefation of students and faculty
in the interests of a better Davidsonian “for
a better Davidson.”

With The Staff ....
JOHN ASHE

It can be proved by statistics that dancing
is the major pastime of the nation. The ques-
tion that we would like to raise is: “Why
can’t college dances be held in the town of
Davidson?” Pack in the early childhood of
|.our institution there were moral reasons for
prohibiting dancing. However, times have
changed and dancing is.no. longer considered
immoral. If there had been no war-and stu-
dents were still able to say, “Fill it up!”, this
problem would need no discussing as it could
still come under the catagorie ‘Old-Fash-
ioned’ rules. However, there is a war and we
are asked to conserve and save for a speedy
victory. Having our dances in Charlotte con-
-tronts each student-with a grave problem of
transportation.. .Also_it might be termed as
a slight bit unpatriotic.

The Board of Trustees is to meet this Wed-
nesday and it is rumored that important col-
lege business will be discussed. This problem
has been brought up with them before and no

decision was reached. We.of The Davidsonian_
staff feel that the Board should be again re-
minded that the students arc still interested.

again this semester. Welcome back
to Allen, Jones, Moody, and Whit-

working up another Tarzan act.
:

Problem

“Why should I go to Sunday School?” Well,
why should we go to Sunday School? We
got in late the night:before and before going
to hed we bulled for a couple of hours and by
ten-fifteen Sunday morning we are just begin-
ning to feel like getting up.

day School?”

Don't. be surprised if you hear*
wumors and murmurings about a
big Stunt Night to come off soon.
Talent, show thyself. Do you trip
the light fantastic toe, or pluck the
; ; strings on an ole banjo? Well

There is | something wrong somewhere | practice up and let's go.
when, out of a Student Body ninety per cent
gf whom were in the habit of going to Sunday
School every Sunday before they came to Da-
vidson, only ten per cent or less now come to
a Sunday School set-up expressly for them.

Where is the trouble? We don’t believe it
is in the Sunday School itself, for Sunday
School is not an organization. it is an idea.
Sunday School is not a place. it is not a teach-
er, it Is not a lesson. Sunday School is more
what you put into it than what you get out of
it. Sunday School is one way we can express
the principle of ‘Freedom of Worship.’ .

Yours,

“ED PATTERSON

| Cinema Attractions

Wed. and Thur, Feb. 9, 10
“Destination Tokyo”
with Cary Grant

Fri. and Sat., Feb. 11 and 12 —
“Is Everybody Happy?”

Mon. and Tue., Fed. 15 and 16
“What a Woman!”

We would like to see Sunday School one of
the great traditions of Davidson. We leave_it.
up. to you. Start next week and bring someone
with you to Sunday School.

ne re

Glad to see some oldlimers back .

ley Rimor “has it—that—Whit-is -.

Question of-the week iVhy. are.

here-sofew_pcople at Student Sun-

°Y’ Corner -

,
