Page Two ; THE DAVIDSONIAN . Thursday, August 24, 1944
eee nnn ne enema neenee een eee nec eee et LLL EEO

_Uye Bavirsonian The. DAVIDSONIAN. Presents
—oer'_ ~~ € ditorials - 2 2. Cheatures

Published twice a month during the. academic year

‘

“For a Better Davidson”

* appeared, it se hatits disastrous trek . . at.
Tw VE ; —~.. appeared it seems that its isastrous tre Superlative Poll Tabulations

Snecrnestcans sesneeranens is nearing a close. The rumors of quar- .
JIM ALEXANDER . Business Manager . . . . . . woe : .
antiae will linger long in our memory. The Davidsonian Student Superl- majority, but the dedn also received
° ‘ . ‘ : ative Poll placed before the student a remarkably large number of votes.
Jo 8. Blain _. Asastant Kditor ~=-\nd the delayed opening of school this

' D a rn S kai body last Thursday during Chapel — frony, students?

Ronnie EWE Asatstant ris) Editor = carn a.

Kona Drewich 1 Maneeiny liter tall shonid serve to make us al! atutcly has-been tabulated. showing positive — Notiinger received a good per-
John Fo MeNate Feature kehtor, congseious or the dangers we have thus “sults. Mimeographed — ballots centage of the votes of upperclass--

George Gunn ween. Staff Photographer

were handed students upon ente™ men tor MOST IN FELLEGKUAL.
Joe Stukes ven Circulation. Manarer lar escaped. ing the auditorium. Shitce’ on ilie but when totaled with the fresh-
Jack lazenly Advertising Manager It is hoped that all the students will give ballor-was provided for the 3an- men’s, Robinson- Got a majoriw ii

serdiom of a name after the charae- this department. Horton whipped _
credit where credit is duc, to_-our faculty, tesisties -Wintiest-Best-Sthoul’ Spit into ike tead owoter. and in the
“Rnteread_as second-class matter at lie Toot Office. ac

Sai ra TRI Tore ey Peni OE TON The weather has been just as hot for ated, Most Dependable, Most Digni- finals was less than a nose behind

tied, Most Popular, Most Imtelfecte- the winners.
them, and the work has been doubly hard ual, Most Athletic, Most Versatile. Lowry, sports editor of The Da-
SUBSCRIPTION RATES for many who are teaching ASTRP men.  IIandsomest, Best Looking Co-ed. vidsonian, wound up a narrow plu-
; vos : Neatest, Mos ited, ” Bigges rulity for MOST THEM AC
Ton cents per copy. Socts. the Summer Session The whole administration deserves a vote No*est. Most Conceited, “Biggest rality for MOST ATHLEHC, but

. Bore, Alost in Love, Riggest Womar Edwards and Ashby, Teck and--
of thanks for the excellent way it has killer, Most Bashful. Biggest. neck, stood just one -vote behind

handled a difficult situation, and for the “Sud”. Biggest Bull Slinger. him.

. . ar Friendliest, and Most Loved by For MOST VERSATILE, Daniels
Printed by The thoughtful treatment of the civilian stu- Professors. Space was allowed for: nosed out Owens for a majority.
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY dents especially. remarks, and voters were asked to Guiton and Witherington account-
re . . . sign their names. * ed for the remainder of the votes in

Crarlotte, North, Carolina We night mention, however, it has A total of cighty ballots were re- this department. —--~

oe _.—e seemed funny that the ASTRP boys held tutneds— Several’ students made “he For HANDSOMEST, Robinson

ae . 1 Frid . return, but the majority spetit trom = Daniels and Guiton stood side by
such a big runction last rriday evening, eight’ to twelve minutes in their — side with one vote each. Only votes

neengoenten ron NATIONAL~ABVERTIOING ov the same time fraternities had asked for seats. carefully filling in the blanks. cast by co-eds were tabulated under
National Advertising Service, Inc. and been denied In general, considerable interest this heading, for -it- is believed that
20 matlete Publishers Kepresentativg ve . has been shown ia regard to the 9 only the fairer sex can- judge the:
ISON vE, . . . “ . oo : . .
cracheo sooeren + Los AnceLes - Sau Francisco So we come to the place where the Air election. Members of The David- fairness of the un-fair sex. (Only
. sonian Stalf have been extensively three co-eds cast votes).

Corps says “Roger.” and to the departing queried regarding’ its outcome

, but A_very ticklish subject was con-
students we wish the best of everything. until now vo official release has fronted in selecting the BEST

This paper is the official history of college life, particularly those who leave us perman: been made. Rumors and ‘specuia: _ LOOKING CO-D—AMany -merehy

and iss a medium of student ane ton have im most cases been gross- answered, “Bah!? or “Where?” In

As such it welcoines any. contributions or com. ently.: To those of you who will return = ty inaccurate. his remarks, one voter stated, “The
munications to it, provitled such does not contain

derogatory |‘ Fefcrence_to faculty_er—students, pro- in September, The Davidsonian says Comments about the vote, ike the best_elooking co-ed would be the
fanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism, All

: : > wepsp  VOLesitseli, varied considerably, «lesser of two evils.” He declined
material must be in the editor's hands by Monday with Lowry and the Mills Brothers, “Til Andy Owens, ROTC lieutenant, ex. to name the evils. Secking relax-
mehtot the week that it is to be printed, and the han th - noes . ation from th del of sclecti
editor reserves the right to reject part or_all of any hen. pressed his approval of the poll, but alt ¢ orde! of selecting

contribution of communication, ~dectared that the request for the previous superlatives, showered up-
~ voter to sign his name was a “raw on male student Scott a plurality of

deal.” Efimo Sellers said that a wise Yotes for best looking co-ed. LHow-
- ° selection of characteristics was ¢¥er, the election was ‘not without

“e a K a . -, , .
Reminiscences eee _ made ad he wished he had more #8 serious minded balloteers under
By JUSTA JOAK __ time to give his selections ample — this, topic. evidenced =by-the large
As the summer draws toa close the stu- Arter twelve long weeks of slaving away over consideration. Sam Burgess stated, "br of flattering votes received

dents at Davidson have many thimgs upon books and notes. yetting up at 7:00, waiting for week “We need more thine to vote.” J udge by pretty Miss Hilda Gamble and
“vie . * nig ._ Lowry of the Court of Control, with almost as abundantly shared by the

hich look back 3 bad ends and hurrying back on Sunday nights for vesp ‘ ‘ th
Which to look back, some BOOU, SOME Dad. a it seems that at long last summer school ig nearly his typical disgust for the neophyte. Sweetheart of the student body,
It has been a summer of hard work, of over. Even wough some of the Davidson boys (and declared, “'We' consider tne elece Bea" Whitney. Melba Baily,

terrific heat._ancdl of many memorable girls) may wish that there would -be no vacation tion ‘highschoolish’ .” ; est Cockinos. and Julia Alexan-
this year and school would continue. up until Sep- ‘Ouly in, isolated cases did one der all received a respectable num.
events. ° . 7, tember t8th and then start all over again I for one Person Feccive an overwhelming ber of votes for that characteristic.
. - - . . am. glad that (he great day for the termination of Majority of the votes under a par- Ost: treasured by all women of all

The first: rew days of summer scidol the session is slowly but surely getting clozcr and teular superlative. ages. ;
saw the fraternities defy the gods of war closer:) Many of the boys are-planning on spending —_- Votes for WITTIEST were wide- Gunn seemed to get the. edge for

- 5 interesting v. ion it see a fe » ly distributed eamong Alexander, NEATEST. THis most dangerous

a very interesting vacation it seems that a few are |i i x . N ;
and pledge a large nuniber of new men, not going to enjoy their three weeks as much as Whitehouse, Stukes, Monroe, Rod-  Tival was Smith whose heels were
keeping social lite a4 Davidson on a well- oiers but 1 guess that everyone will spend the 21 dy. Renal, Brown, and Guiton. Alex. warmed by Blain aad McNair (Al-

established is May we contintte t6 be. days ini a very oonstructive way. ander, Whitehouse, and Roddy came the ei vaeidene upheld his

basis. } - 3 ; : . he home stretch almost, neck slick, ‘traditional title and came
os : see PLA oing to see.S Blaine and MO Ue Tome str ; i

as active in this phase of coliege lite in we have hoard thes gon seine to spend Blaine and neck, and neck. with Alexander bounding down the home stretch

days to come. wwe have he leading by a hair, with a small but well-earned sack

ov . this d £ leisur Alexander's air widened into an 0! votes.
Then a Deep silence icll upon the camp- tie NOT asins Ihe Bal IGS hed *< hea cei when he palied out in front py raneewineachard fought political
“ . ins in a al he ad x i Daniels ES Sci . Date, came gut.in the lead with tk
us as the 24th College Training Detach: come back next winter and take P. T. aiid RO. T, Ol, Daniels for BEST SCHOOL .

ext y take DP . SPIRITED, Wilds was coming in UUe MOST CONCEITED. Guiton
ment took leave. The Air Corps bovs had C. ("Hose Nose” Monroe ts praying every night

; . vonbute ser not far behind Daniels. The latter, and Lowry, ‘because of their self-
become a part of lize here, and their de- that lie will be Lazenby's sergeant). — it is understood, is transferring to "sPect. got their share of votes.

. . . Bill Smith is going to get married white Ronnie (he University of Sowth Carolina Judging from the returns of
parture Jett a big gap. Particularly Detrich is coing to stay on the campus so he can this fall. BIGGEST BORE, very few. stu-
desolate were the benches and plats’ of date Fran, Fulcher every night without any compe- The votes for MOST DEPEND. ‘ents were forgotten by their elect-

. tition from, Sunny Blaine. APLE-were likewise well . ors. Renal did all right for him-
‘s. 1 a ! se well scatter- ° . , ,
grass around the campt 5 t seems that We think that Alf Scarborough will either go to ed. As far as could be determined, elf i this campaign, and Cranc
the ASTRP boys will carry on, though, Montreat and date his “Overnight Hike Girl" or go most voters selected as mast de- Was siven Just recognition. There
and the sound of marching feet will not to Sumter and date his “Spring Dance Flame.” (If pendable some member of their own “8S NO majority, and no two con-
: you don't catch on to these ask Rod MacDonald. fraternity. It seems that one it best 'CStANTS accounted for a majority.
pass.away for a while. But they cannot He will be onty.toooco glad-to explain). able to judge the dependability of Cupid has been, carelessly firing
fill those benches like the Air Corps. Jim Lowery is going to spend his time preparing one of his frat brothers. Under” 4s arrows about the Davidson
; himscli for the Seminary which he is due to attend this caption Danicls, Alexander, C?™PUS. if we. consider the results
The fine softball tournament which ex unis fall. Owens, and Grey outpointed the r the campaign for MOST IN
tended over the whole summer is worth Jim Elliott is going home and read his new book_Test h Shaw. veers the franchise ONE. pith Probably can claim
: : “How To Woo Women and Win Sins.” Undoubt- for the college’s Observer deliveries, . vidsons No. over
remembering, too. Here again the fra- edly you have heard-of-this book: -It~was written eceived several votes from satisfied (Youngblood?) but he can’t claim

ternities demonstrated their worth, with by the great authoress Miles Scott. ~ customers who, have been regularly Ween Blory. for Roddy, Wysor,
competition being hot among the Grecks. _“Hosc’’ Monroe is going straight to Laurinburg Tecetving their copy early every >t smorouele lined Neewise
. and catch up on his dating. He has just found how "morning. { , ge sty incline »  Guiton,
Thanks are to be extended to Coaches much fun it really is? What say Hose? Azrather mute issue was con-- ote cuit Pallots. was Siven the
Shephard and Whittle for their interest Alf McNair says that He is going to have the time fronted with MOST DIGNIFIED ote with t ©. condition, Most
. . f ' Oo de , “ olten’ in Love.” (But he’s a good

and help each evening on the diamond, as of his life doing nothing. ne student merely wrote, “There |hoy)

, Phil Medford, .C. T. Danial, Rod MacDonald and are none.” However, more—econ- y?. :

well as Mr, Shack. many others are leaving Davidson ahd closing the ventional voters pave Robinson-a Of course, the competition for

. : : h f gates behind them until after the war, and so to small plurality, slightly outfanking BIGGEST WOMAN KILLER was
Polio came in for its share of atten- these boys may we say “Au revoir.” And hope that Grey and Hollinger. -Bryant came terrific: With a campus filled with
tion. If our memory serves, it has been we will be back again after the. war. in for a few dusty votes in this race. Tac tal suitable to excel in this,
: : > . . T , the race wa i Ith
several years since such an epidemic has And so with this statement may we close the last he votes cast for MOST POPU- s close. Although he

. : of such mess ‘to be printed this summer. Maybe LAR were rather unique. _ ‘Daniels, _flidn’t get a majority “of all votes
struck. Though the disease has not dis- ‘more next winter. Let's hope not- pfesident of the student body, got a _(Continyed on Page 4)
4

: - —— _. a

