Well, folks, bas-
ketball. has finally
about died out for
the year. Coach
Shepard. is now
talking about base-
ball, but he doesn’t
know. yet whether
there will be a team
this year, or not. If
there is one, it will
probably be called a
freshman team, al-
though anyone will
be welcomed to play.
Coach will call out
_the squad, look over
the prospects, and
then decide whether

' to arrange games.
Left from last year’s team which won only one game, are
only two lettermen: Bob Brooks, the fast second sacker
who will probably hold up the infield, and Phil Whitter,
who will probably wind up in the pitcher’s box. These two
boys will need plenty of help, so if you have ever played
any ball before and are interested, vod would do well to
come out for the team.

By FRITZ KEESLER

Coach Pete Whittle also has a headache over the
track situation. There was no team last year, and Pete
will probably do. about .the same thing as Shepard, in that
no meets will be arranged unless .we can find some team
to play this year. Let’s hope there are some track stars
around this place, who haven't been discovered yet. If there
are any, Pete will soon find out when he calls out the squad,
In years past Davidson has had a pretty good track team,
and let’s see if we can’t have one this year. In most places
there is a big interest in track, and Davidson is no excep-
tion.

The fraternity hen cical tournament ended i in a close
and exciting climax. There was a three way tie for first
place: the Betas, S.P.E.’s and Independents. In second
place c came the fighting Sigmas, leaving the Pika-Pi Kapp
téam in third place. There was good basketball playing
at times, discovering some pretty good players fighting
for their team. I have picked an All-Star fraternity team,
which was a rather hard task. At center is Bill Gorden
of the Betas; guards are Lineberger, S.P.E., and Strick-
land, Ind. ; forwards are Coble, Pikas, and Shaw, Ind, This
spring there will be three fraternity sports. First there
will be a track, meet, probably sometime in April. Then
there will also be volley ball and softball. The inter-frater-
nity sports will prove interesting and will be a lot of fun
for all who compete.

The P. T. basketball tournament, which has just re-
cently ended, proved a success in every way. McAlister’s
team came through to win undefeated, and was an ex-
cellent team, although there were several others almost as
good. It was a wonderful idea to have this: tournament,
because it showed what all the boys could do. What about
having a P. T. tournament for all the sports, Coach?

\

Peanut Products, Potatoes Chips
and Candies

Seo eoooeadaddocdd

WM VALG
io PRODUCTS

hiibidecqacoetiane N. Cis

Wildcat Sports.

TRACK AND BASEBALL
THIS SPRING

Saturday, March 17, 1945

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Three

THE 1945 WILDCATS

CATS WIN TWO AT HOME

Beat Charl’ton
In Close Game

The Wildcats nosed out the lit-
tle but fast team of Charleston in
the. game held in the Davidson
college gym. The game was close
from beginning to end, with the
Charlestonians fighting to the: very
end, The few point margins which
the Cats kept most of the game,
didn’t seem very big at times, but
wher the final whistle sounded,
the Cats were two points ahead,

yenn

Davidson G. F, TP
O'Briant 5 2 12
Wall 4 0 8
Berry ym 2 6
Scarborough 0 5
Etheridge 1 0
Neil 2 0
Blackburn 0 2
Total 14 11 39
: rleiton G. F. TP
(Continued from Page 1) ‘ : Puckerhaber 3 0 6
e e
Christians believed, which is a pre- Davidson Twice ge i 4 y
Marsha 2
valent mistake. : ao The Morris Field “Flyers” down- | Condon 0 0 0
Dr, Poteat continued by giving ed the Cats in two decisive victories, Jones 4 0 8
reasons why Christianity was so ; Nelson 6 2 14
one game played at Davidson and
slow to reach the educated classes Feiss ‘
E on the other at Morris Field. Both of | Totay “45 7 Y/
in the Roman world. (1) Because ;
the games moved along in about ———_—______.
Christianity was so much like Mith- He wane teen Hd Cate halt
raism and = Stoicism. (2) Because i ak oun eae et D F
Chaihtinntiy At caliiont every point the big and fast army players in own urman
collided with deep seated Roman the first half of both games but
ideas, The Romans could, not under- | Were unable to keep up the pace in To End Season
stand many of the Christian prin-| the second half. ‘
ciples such as Monotheism,-faith, In the last game of the season,
brotherly love, ressurection and Davidson 3 G. F. TP] the Wildcats, who did not seem
atonement, after-life, free will, and O'Briant 4 0 8 very wild at times, got on the ball
their practice of obtaining con- Keesler 0 0 O}to lick Furman College. The Cats
verts. They believed that Christ- Wall 3 0 “played a fine game from the very
ianity was all right for slaves, but} 5!™pson 0 0 0) beginning, The team really looked
notfonimasters] Berry 4 0 8] good with Dove Neil as high sco-
The lecturer concluded by men-| Etheridge 0 0 0) rer who chalked up a toal of nine-
tioning some .of the contributions | 5¢arberough 0 4 4] teen “points. After the first’ team
whiclt Christians gave to the world | Sherrill 0 0 0} had run up fifty points, Coach She-
in which they were born, (1) They} Neil : 0 2 2} pard sent in the second team. who
created. the idea of the inestimable} Blackburn 1 0 2} tried in vain to add a few more
value of even the lowest 6f men. a ——]| points to the Cats score but there
(2) They introduced the love and| Total 12 6 30] attempt was in vain. The victory
universality of the new God. (3) * [completed a very nice season for
They introduced the Missionary | Morris Field G F. TP.| the Davidson Wildcats,
motive. (4) They showed the altru-| R’rchen 5 1 11 | Davidson G. Boo ane:
ism af the life of Jesus. (5) They} Johnson 3 0 6} O'Briant 0 5 5
introduced Ethics for the first time. | Warrick 6 1 13} Sherrill 0 0 0
(6) They brought the doctrines of | Jeffords 2 5 9| Etheridge 2 i) 4
fellowship and humility, and (7) | Regan 0 0 | Wall 3 0 6
They pteached the idea of a new | Fry 2 0 4} Blackburn 0 0 0
Heaven, admission to’) which was | Woods 2 0 4| Berry 7 0 14
not gained by greatness, but by | Donahoo 0 0 0} Scarborough 1 0 2
goodness, Maintz 0 0 (| Keesler 0 0 0
SELES viii ace pee case one | NY 9 1 19
Total 20 if 47 | Simpson 0 0 0
PT Tourney Furman 0 0 0
[) 4 >
The Physical Education basketball oe ri on
tournament was: ;eompleted last Faul & Crymes Inc Bell 5 7 17
week, with McAlister’s team, coach- ? ” Cody 0 0 0
ed by/Pete Whittle, coming out on Williams 0 1 1
top. Khe team played good ball in Berry : 2 0 4
every game, and was undefeated. Ss e Revis 0 fea
Playing a “round-robin” tourna- porting Riggins 1 0 ‘
ment, each of the five teams, one Rowlan l 1 3
from each PT class, played four j White l 0 -
games. There was aa three-way tie Goods Campbell 1 1 3
fpr second place, with Carper’s
team in the cellar. Standings are
listed below. 2 mo u a ¥
TEAM WwW L Per. 415 S. Tryon Street
McAlister 4-0 to Th St d t §
Strickland 2 2 -500 e u en tore
Owens 2 2 - 500 Charlotte, N. C.
Alexander 252 500 COLD DRINKS
Carper 0 4 .000 CAKES
“T” SHIRTS
a FRESHMAN CAPS
vietien VIGIE Sad Tk a:
e place to
DAVIDSON DINING ROOM get that Betvccen
c off
Mrs.’ Copeland hour snack

