Well, you chic-
kens, the time has
rolled around again
for me to write a
column. None of you
have'taken me up on
that dare to write
this space for Met

to do it again.

With football
practice, inter-mur-
als, and all the base-
ball news there is in
the world, I ought
to be able to fill this
space.

Coach Shepard has whipped up what he calls a foot-
ball team and if he calls it that, I guess that’s what it is.
I am not a connisseur of football teams, but I have noticed
some resemblance to a f-ball team out there on Richardson
Field every day about 4:30. Coach is working them pretty
hard and the results are beginning to show up. The squad
is improving daily and one cannot help but notice the im-
provement. Without a doubt, Dick Richards will leave a
huge hole in the backfield when he goes. In fact, that last
sentence should have been written in the past tense, because
he will be gone when this comes out. But since this is Sun-
day night, August 12, he doesn’t leave until tomorrow.

The “erroneous” flash that the Japs had thrown in the
towel just came over the radio that is blaring in Lyday’s
room. This might have some foundation and thus allow
a couple of Dave Spencers or Claude Hackneys enroll for
next fall. They would certainly be welcomed to strengthen
dur team. It seems to be-all right for the first eleven, but
after that we are sadly lacking.

By JOE STUKES

sut seriously, fellows, our team will be a good one, the
best possible with the necessarily curtailed manpower sit-
uation. All the non-players on the campus should place
confidence in the Coach’s ability and back the team to the
limit.

This is still Sunday night so I have no finals on the
softball tournament. Right now the standings are thus:

TEAM Won _ Lost Pct: Games Behind
Sots 4 2 .667 —
Retas 4 2 .667 —
Thetas 3 ‘) .500 1
Independents 3 3 .500 1
Pi Kapp-Pikas 1 ] .167 3

The two second place teams, The Thetas and the
Independents, have been recently hard-hit. The Indepen-
dents lost their manager and star player, Richards, who
moved in from first to take over the pitching chores. He
proved to be one of the most effective pitchers in the
league. Since the last issue, the Independents also lost ap-
proximately half their team to the Sots. But that is old
-and everyone knows about that (as if they didn’t know all
the other stuff that is printed in tHis gazette). :

The Thetas lost Bob Brooks who played a steady, con-
sistent, and praiseworthy game at second all last term. A
reoccurrence of a stomach ailment (ulcers, I think) has
forced him to drop out of school until fall. Word seems
to have gotten around that this was not the reason, but I
assure you that this is the real reason. Such a thing should
nev-er have 'been started, so let’s do our bit to stop it.

Let me here make a suggestion. I hope that this one
does not meet the unfortunate end that most of my sug-
gestions meet. It seems to me that with such a close race
going on, that the winners will not stand a ghost of a
chance against a picked “All-Star” team. So I would sug-
gest to Coach that the winner and the fifth place team bé
combined into one to meet the “All-Stars”:

The Legion baseball season is rapidly drawing to an
expected exciting close. Shelby and Woodruff (N. C. and
S. C.) will play off in Sumter, S. C. (20 miles north of
Manning) some time this week. The winner playes one
more series and then, if everything goes right, comes to
Charlotte for the finals. These finals will begin on August

so I guess I'll have}

VERY EXCITNG

Wildcat Sports.

Thursday, August 23, 1945 ; THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Five

CATS PRACTCE

of 10-4. Johnson pitched and Golden

caught for the winners; Blain pitch-

ed and Walker caught for the losers.
BETAS-INDEPENDENTS

On July 31 the Betas trounced the

Game Results

BETAS-PI KAPPS-PIKAS

On July 26 the Betas defeated the
Pi Kapps-Pikas by a score of 12-6.
Johnson pithced for the Betas while
Lasley caught; and. Blain pitched
for the Pi Kapps-Pikas while Walk-
er caught.

INDEPENDENTS-THETAS
On July 27 the Independents de-
feated the Thetas 4-2, Richard
pitched and Miller caught for the

winners; and Stukes pitched and
Alexander caught for the losers.

SOTS-PI KAPPS-PIKAS

On July 30 the Pi Kapp-Pika team
was defeated by the Sots by a score

and Lasley caught for the Betas;
Richards pitched and Miller caught
for the losers,’

SOTS-THETAS

On August 1 the Sots defeated the
Thetas 4-2. Johnson pitched and
Golden caught for the Sots, Stukes
pitched and Alexander caught for
fhe Thetas.

BETAS-SOTS

On August 2 the Betas downed the
Sots 12-5. Johnson pitched and Las-
ley caught for the winners; Johnson

27th and last for at least six days, maybe seven. . There
are four teams in the finals.

And so we come to the three-oh mark for this time.
Last time I used that saying, I had to personally explain
it to at least on-half of the student body. The other half’s
curiosity can now be satisfied. At the end of every article,
the writer places the sign, -30-, why I do not know. But
in order to be like everone else, I sign this for the last
time this summer, -30-.

Independents 12-3. Johnson pitched

Kittens Begin Football Practice

Football Outlook
Pleases Shepard

Will Play Freshman Schedule
With Highland And Prep’
Schools

Davidson’s first summer football
practice in the history of the col-
lege has already produced excellent
results. Coach Norman Shepard

says that several “good prospects”
have been proven in practice thus
far. He says that with the expected
up trend in the populattgn of the
student body for the coming fall,
Davidson college will be able to put
out on the field a team of which it
may pustifiably be proud.

Coach Shepard has stated that
there are five or six men out on the
field that resemble real pre-war
ballplayers, and he expresses him-
self as confident to put out an
eleven that’ will be equal to a full-
strength freshman team.

At the present time it is the plan
for the Kittens to play only a fresh-
man schedule. By that it is meant
that high schools and prep schools
will be on our list come next Octo-
ber.

The student body as a whole is
very definitely pleased to see .a
Davidson football team be put out,
even though it is only a freshman
aggregation. But we are all sure
that the ole Davidson spirit is still
around on the campus, and will
always be as far as that matters.
The present student body can not
be taken as any exception, and all
of those fellows on the team can
certainly rest assured that they will
receive a 100 per cent backing from
all of the non-ballplayers, especially
frehmen. And so we want to seé all
of you at that first home game yell-
ing your lungs out with all your
might for our fine team, Let’s go,
Davidson !

pitched and Golden caught for the
losers. 5
THETAS-PI KAPPS-PIKAS
On August 3 the Thetas defeated
the Pi Kapps-Pikas 6-3. Stukes -
pitched and Alexander caught for
the winners; Walker pitched and
Youngue caught for the Pi Kapps.
INDEPENDENTS-SOTS
On August 6 the Independents

Whatever

Your Needs

SUITS

> HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES

and the 101 other things

SHOP
EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP

STREET FLOOR

“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”

=—

downed the Sots by a score of 14-6.
Richards pitched and Miller caught
ffor the winners; Johnson pitched
and Golden caught for the losers.

BETAS-THETAS

On August 8 the Thetas edged out
Thetas in a hard fought game by
the score of 9-8. J ohnposni00vCu
the ‘score of 9-8. Johnson pitched
and Lasley caught for the Betas;
Stukes pitched and Alexander
caught for the Thetas,
' PI KAPPS-PIKAS-BETAS

On August 8 the Pi Kapps-Pikas
‘won a surprise upset game; defeat-
ing the Betas by a score of 17-7.
Tyler pitched and walker caught
for the winners; Johnson pitched
and Lasley caught for the losers.
& THETAS-INDEPENDENTS

On August 8 the Thetas edged out
the Independents 14-13. Stukes
pitched and Golden caught for the
first part of the game for the win-
ners; later Golden pitched and
Schmidt caught for the Thetas.
Johnson pitched and Miller caught
for the losers.

SOTS-PI KAPPS-PIKAS

On August 9 the Sots easily de-
feated the Pi Kapps. 14-1. Johnson
pitched and Golden caught for the
Sots; Tyler and Blain pitched and
Walker caught for the losers.

On Friday, August 17, the Ali-

Stars will play the league ¢hampions.
