°

*

‘

SUTTON TO PILOT
DAVIDSONIAN

Che Davbidsonian

ALENDA LUX UB!I ORTA LIBERTAS

JACKSON HEADS :
‘46 - 47 YMCA

Volume XXXIV

DAVIDSON, N. C. APRIL 26, 1946

w bee .

DAVIDSON COLLEGE,

mee: No. 12

Jim Jackson Elected President Of Y. M.C. A.

Spring Frolics Formal To

Sutton To Assume Editorship Of

Defeats Williamson For

High Position In Runoffs

Plans Weekly Editions During
Next School Year

In recent student body elections,
Id Sutton of Charlotte, N. C..) was
elected Editor the
for the coming year. Candidates for
the post included Frank
Barr, Williamson, Lonnie
Sutton
the

of Davidsonian
editor's
Lamar
defeated
final

who
third

Turner, and
Williamson
ballot.

in and

the
fall ot 1441 from Decatur Boys High

utton entered Davidson in
School in Decatur, Ga., and was in
April 1943,

was called to service with

utendance here uMtil

when he

the inisted Reserve Corps. During

these two years here he served as

a reporter eon the Davidsonian ve
and was chosen as Managing Editor

the latter part of his Sophomore
year bHe-is~a-member of -the-Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity, the
Spanish Club and helped manage
the” Wildcat baseball team as a
Freshman.

While in the army, Sutton, first

served as an Aviation Cadet for ten
months and then with the infantry
holds

and

in
the
two battle stars on the European
Theater of rat

igns in the Rhineland and Cen-

France and Germany. He

Combat Infantry Badge

Operations ribbon” tor

camp:
tral Germany.
Rd

semester

Upon receiving his discharge,

returned to Davidson this

and has been holding a managing
editors position for the past three

months.

Hood Gives

Manuscript

Mrs.
late

recently -yivert

Frazer Hood, widow of the

of Psychology, has

{
He

Professor
Davidson College
Library a interesting addition
to its Peter Stewart

very
Ney collection.
Benbow Young of Iredell
the of Mrs.
Hood, went to school to Peter Stew-

edwin
County, great uncle
art Ney as did many of the cotton
planters’ sons invthis section before
the Civil War. In 1830, Edwin Young
made his own manuscript mathe-
matics book with carefully mgasured
which he used under the
instruction of Mr. Ney. On page
1h5 there is the signature of “P. S.
in the
ing that
How large a part Mr. Ney had in
the book not kown,
though Dr, Smoot's book on Ney
states that the heading on the top

drawi

Ney" now familiar handwrit-

of mysterious gentleman.

compiling is

of thre

many ulsigned comments in the mar-

pages are Ney’s. There are

eins which nfay be these of the old
teacher, but this avould have to be
established by dn expert on hand-
writing.

Dr. William G. McGavock of the
Math Department asked to
comment on the manuscript from a
mathematical of He

mined the work closely and ar-

was
point view.
eae
rived at the followink conclusions :

“Although written 116 years ago,
We find in this manuscript a number
of preblems that would be right. at
the modern high

or

home today in

school geometry trigonometry
courses. There is, of course, much
that we find amusing also. The de-
scriptions of the ‘most of the pro-
blems are needlessly Cumbersome,
a wordy statement being used where
the modern mathematician would
rely altogether on symbols. A num-

ber of exercises are even expressed

(Continued on Page 4)

pen With Russ Carlton’s Orchestra

Davidso

Tonight

nian

A Twenty Vote Margin

Suceeds McLean High

In
Campus Spiritual Work

Phursday, Apri 11, the student

body elected) Jim Jackson of Colum-

bia, South Carolina, President of the
YMCA 1946.47.

Davidson for

Jim. was elected on the third bal
he

\pril 9, when four 4

lot of a race which gan on Tues:

day, lames were
presented to the student body in its
meeting atter chapel. These four
men wer, |

[bichagesnbyeey

Teekson,

nominated by the meum-

Cabinet. They were Jim

Vernon

Williamsou and Vaul

Lamar

MeGehee,

You

were ho nominations from th

The voting on Tuesday gave Me
Gehee a lead of ten votes with sixty
nine to Jackson's fifty-nine. William
son and Young trailed with fifty
fhree and twenty-four respectively

On-— Wednesday Jackson putled
into the lead with a vote of 107
against MeGehee's 96. Williamson,
polling fifty-eight votes, was elimi

nated.

Phe run-off Thursday made Jack-

son" Y¥"" President bya margin—ot
twenty” votes. The final vote wa
Jackson, 124; McGehee, 94

“Gentleman Jim’ Jackson-entered

Davidson with the class of “45. Dur-
ing the following year and a half
he became a member gi Nappa Al

pha Order and the Eumanean Liter

editor of the Davidsonian and sports

ary Society served as sports

manager of the Sophomore class.

In March, 1943, Jim was called
to active duty in’ th Army Aft
Corps. He bei lot and flew
B-26's and B the time of his
separation he rank of first
lieutenant.

Since his return t oon
January 28, 194 li TT
a member of the Bea nd

emg Upsilon.” He re
presents Kappa Alpha on the Pa

Hellanie Council

e
Ca ol: yr I alleyHan es y OCGLIS "ARE VCE Reet By
o
O1 ance Set ts eek-en
DAVIDSONIAN HEAD: 1) Fe , | ates Crowd Expected To At- | YMCA PRESIDENT |
Ed d Ch | tend Final Dances
|
wards osen FEATURED ja
The VPan-Hellenie Couneil - will
|
Vi P id t }present its final dances, the Spring
ice bad resl ent | Frolics, on April 20 and 27 in the
; eee i : p } Davidson College gym, it has -been
te.ling Edwards and Charlie Pat- Fannounced by Ed Golden, president
erson were chosen first and second of the Council. Russ’ Carlton and
ice-presid ent, respectively, of the In. seventeen piece orchestra’ will
"MCA in a whirlwind election on | play for the gala oceasion.
; Nori! 9, | Phe Formal dance will be on Fri
: ‘ }day night, during which time the
Contenders for the vice-presiden- Jmembers of the Council and the
i were Edwards and Patterson, Hraternity presidents, and their dates,
h verte nontinated by the YY” will present a figure. The Saturday
Fi 1 In anec il] be minal to
pet, and Thacker Thrower and \- UA Will be informal for all
: ; | Carlton and his Orchestra
ner Willams Whe were nomi- | Be F as
‘ ee | of an outstanding record ot
ated troia the floor in the student | ments, breaking many house
heaty eting of April 9% The clee- Phe music for the evening
don was deeided by the first ballot. will ber developed around the theme
Bdwards took tho first vicesprésis of band: MUSTCAT. Murs
ei FROM SWING PO BLUES, To be
ency. Thrower and Williams were i ‘
a pigoke a highlighted by Carlton are his voca-
lintnated by votes of cifrht-five ist, Carolyn Talley and Wendell
ED SUTTON nd fifty respectively. a Carolyn_onet only sings but she JIM JACKSON
SS ES DE TE Sterling. Edwards jc a tative ¢ also plays a mean type of boogie- *
terling Edw irds is a ative of CAROLYN TALLEY | ike
° Nampa, Florida. He attended Ers- dares panes shoes N u 3] \ \ Tes
| eta appa kine College, Due West, S. C., for F Phe unique feature of week e1S er Ins
eee : tis net ° nid Hobe the jam session which
one year and transfered to David- 6 IZ {end wi yam J
e,e nee Bint ; ; actson l e Carlton and ‘the orchestra will give
| | Id | Cc. son as a sophomore, in the summer a ! ec o reas @)
(@) S nitiation of- "45. He played first string wing- 1" . feet iil on Saturday atternoon, Admission .. ¢
. one os ; rere is now available in the lib- tye fe
a : : back on the Wildeat team last fall, } . : ; eh a Sane ; Will be by thrty-tfive eets at the door After sweat out several tense
The Phi Beta Nappa initiationyand he was sports editor of the He the AAA Felerence tool! oy hy a “set” ticket, cither. stip hallole oi Nritreet fein
sees ; ; ; Facts on File’. This consists of a 1 MUTOLS, cury Ncistler Of ININgS
was held Thursday afternoon, April] Davidsonian last semester. ee MER) AToutitdiiie Neat one Naaian
<3 es ; s i 53 weekly cight page news section and The eyvni-will be decorated-to carry |” oun, 4 won the election
25, at four-thirty o'clock for four Charlie Patterson of Charlotte, N.Jan excellent cumulative index. The out the theme of the Spring Perales IOI REGReULEV SUE OMS RSet eco acll
students, Mel Winstead, Joe Martin, C,, entered Davidson with the class] news section lists in) day-by-day in bieteccotors of wren and avhite, lent Gy, Runnin hin a close ar
J. P. Alexander, and Howell Mor- [of ‘46. He completed only CTE EUTEEET chronological form all the vital NEWS| Supplemented by a variety of other AD AU USCA a Others nominat
row. There was_an_ informal address ter before his call to active duty in}of the week under the following bright-eolors, ed a as otlice wi <i | My st Hun
e—Army_Air-Corps--i *ebruary wovt PTY i x ‘ ter, ( trother ite art, and
by Dr. Robert K. Gooch, Dr. Gooch its ane ; a Orps—in—Tebriareheadinged During intermission most of the}.. : : :
: 1945, Charlie spent twelve months gn ; Sab Ed Hopper.
velo: EVREMI ANAK ltd terale ce : as : World War 11. fraternities will serve refreshments
Dy ees © & OchocK IN an) Attias pilot of a B-25. At the time oe Pe I liffe ] il! be 7 Before coming te Davidson, Henry
very : : . nen National Affairs ie different houses will be open
informal address, and after the-ad-Jof his separation on Janua 16, 19- poe | Went to Fishburne Military ‘School
: pa pity on Foreign Affairs Hee any non-fraternity. man, There : ,
dress there was a reception at the 46, he wore the Asiatic-Pacific Thea- ' ¢ MOillaoennoniralione nintce toner n Virginia &vhere. he made all prep
Guest House. Va ae rm yee star, and held Latin America. ros Gite nid CitentaiiiniUiteetOnr WmehClUdll: Wasa iinoteeal On sth
f : ; the rank of first lleutenant. Finance and Eeonomies yer paar ; . : basketball team id von everal
Dr. Gooch is now the professor a : the independents at the YMCA :
i Political Sci he Ut a Upon his return, to Davidson this Art and Science, Gitest House. OCR: IM
of Political Science at the “ers - %; | ; ; ; | \
—— a oe Ab bie Reniversity | omester. Patterson pledged Sigma} lducation and Religion. | As on previous occasions arrange Here at David i is been
of Virginia, He is a member of Phi Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He} Sports. ments have been made to house the Jactive in basketball, but could not
rete Ka pa and was awarded the}has served as vice-president of the] ituaries. dates hy Juke, Rumople ant the | ta virt an any other sports: ¢
Beta Kay 1 led the }1 | ! 1 f tl Ol | Duke, Rumple, { ke | | |
Shodes Scholarship in ‘ ce is} Sophemere class and he is on the| Miscellaneous. Grest ouse, cause of sickne ce is a member
Rhodes Scholars! 1914. 1 pl | 11 he|  Miscell i i
CContinuéd’ on Page 4) busined$> staff’ of the annual. | (Continued on Page 4) (Continued on Pare 4) of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity

SPRING FROLICS SPONSERS :

Pictured above are the sposors for the annual Spring Frolics to be held this week-end. From left to right, top row: Miss Mary Bryant with Ed Golden, president of Pan Hel- |

lenic Council, Phi Delta Theta Fraterity; Miss Jean Webb with Dave Neill, Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity; Miss Betsy Hatch with Bill Pollard, Beta Theta Pi fraternity; Miss |

Joyce Tomlin with Thacker Thrower, Kappa Sigma fraternity; and Miss Helen Potter with Ernest Hunter, Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. Bottom row: Miss Marilyn Ventris with
Jim Jackson, Kappa Alpha fraternity; Mrs. George McCormack with George McCormack, Phi Gamma Delta fraternity; Miss Jean Stallings with Jack Lazenby, Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity; and Miss Eleanor Huske with Jim Alexander, Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

Scabbard And Blade
To Hold A Tap Day

New Men To Be Honored In

Pcustomary
rto

ithe fall for S¢

May »
t Use arc
1] Military fra
ternity, | ‘ ictivated t]
( Seah d Il
Blade 1 1
ecial interes sugh ki
‘ or t t tre thie
th « tas ee \
|
4 n
‘ | RCT,
1 ! Ison ( (
! ( 1 St Rew
of t Nignal societ ‘
ovr a ' ' sane
pial i

s i 1
+ Steel
| ry 4
{ Howar
IS&T and rt
B.. Sarmue
\ t C
s of
fi
At first me
t tion of
ld, a tap day honoring these new

! take placein-May.It is

trates w

wind

for~Scabbard

hold two

tap davs a vear.

or Officers and o

in the spring rising Senior Of-—
| ficers.

i~The—-1mat fritermity wes
| founded at the University of Wis
consine jn 1904) and the Davidson
'Capter was organized in 1923

