Page Two

THE.

-DAVIDSONIAN

November 22, 1946

The DMavdidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR
ED SUTTON .......-...-.............-.-..--EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB SMOAK .___.....-............. BUSINESS MANAGER
EDITORIAL STAFF
at IVC sckspdnes Associate Editor

Bob Rierson - Feature Editor
Clayton Scofield - -. Sports Editor
Walter Walker. ._.. .. Managing Editor
Ralph Alexander <.--..--2— - Managing Editor

Bob Philips
Dave Richardson -.
jim Pitman

Managing Editor
Managing Editor
PES yee Managing Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Bob Gambrel} .....---.-.-.-.. Assistant Business Manager
Frank Lemmon pete ---—. Advertising Manager
John MeNair . .-- Circulation Manager
BOU GHG <sccaauus may «. Circulation Manager
Charles. Dockery: <ccd202. cence ..-- Collection Manager
Bill Baxter z —..----. Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at

Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RAPES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by Th
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.

Gmeaso - Bostom - Los ANGELES - SAM PRAMCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life,
and is a medium of student and faculty opinion.
As such it welcomes any contributions or communica:
tion to it, provided such does not contain derogatory
reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity,
or destructive criticism. All material must be in the
editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to
reject part or all of any contribution or communica-
tion.

1946 Member 1947

Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Courtesy... .

“A Davidson student is a gentleman at
times.” ‘Davidson students speak
when passing each other on the campus
. friendliness is the spirit of Davidson”
“A Davidson man is courteous” These are

all

only a few of the old sayings which have
been used:so frequently that they begin to
take on the aspects of triteness, and it is
with hesitation that we use them in this
column today. Yet these things have al-
ways been true, and though oft repeated
are none-the-less sound. They have al-
ways been traditional.

But are these time tested laws true
today? We are inclined to think that they
are, and yet at times during this year, we
seem to have allowed ourselves to become
careless in carrying out these obligations
that a. man takes on when he becomes a
student at Davidson College.

This carelessness has been particular-
ly noticeable at our chapel services this
term, and it is about this in particular
that we are writing.

{| _sA certain amount of horse play has also

been a tradition at Davidson chapel per-
iods, and we are not of the opinion that
this is bad—zhen it occurs at the proper
time. In past years, thé lighter side of the
chapel programs took place when the de-
votional was over and the student body
took over the session, but for some reason
this has gotten completely out of control
this year so that it has spread throughout
the whole period.

Our conduct last Friday when the
Queens College Chorus were visitors to
our campus was outrageous. I am sure
that they are of the opinion that David-
son College is an institution housing some
niné hundred howling barbarians for that
is exactly what we were on Friday last.
The uproar hardly died down long enough
for a prayer and any‘attempted announce-
ment was met with a stamping of feet that
made me feel that I was far from any type
of worship service. Why don’t we grow up
in mind as well as body? It was plainly

Th
CaUllorials

DAVIDSONIAN

Clrers

ff resents

Cheatures

e e e e e e
: was seen in Duke this week end | themselves.

announced at the beginning of the pro- a with Billie Rose. aroha edi . a bats uae hes
$ ; could be found in Charlotte wit eac em: ocia am Tate,
gram that the selections were of a re- HAVE Breezin “Baby” as usual. Brother Higgen-|the naked’ one, garaged the Blue
vias PATIENCE ‘ spe iet week end on| Beetle Friday and slept the week

2 5 1k cS fSAWGLG busy show- botham spent a quiet w ;
pe ea uae a = a — With the campus. Brother Dobson is}end away. He managed to arise
ing off to take note of such a minor de- getting set for that Thanksgiving] in” time for Sunday breakfast at
: : tae 1 od the clos F eacl paketdhed trip to New York. Brother Palles}the “Spoon”; then he returned to
pede oe iy ne Reece Gio ee CORENG Bob was at “the Three Palms” Satur-|the sack for ten more hours. But
selection with a round of applause that SOON day night making Merry Music. We|alas, no princess awakened him
° BY BOB RIERSON will all be glad when Brother} with a kiss, so he gave up and
would have spurred eA football squad oe Hunter has fully recuperated and| cruised bitterly to supper. It’s not

to victory: Courteous, friendly gentle-

Cats ar

Numerous members of ‘the student body
have made the request that something be
said in regard to the double cuts assigned
to classes the day before and after our
holiday’ on Thanksgiving. Many of the
men now enrolled at Davidson have not
had the pleasure of spending a Thanks-
giving with their families for four or
five years now and it is with this in
vie wthat the administration is requested
to relax the ruling for this particular date
so that students living several” hundred
miles from school may have an oppor-
tunity to visit their homes. It is realized
that an extra holiday could not be al-
lowed if Davidson is to meet the require-
ment for the number of class hours set,
by the American Association of Colleges
and Universities, but we do sincerely be-
be

lieve that the double cuts could re-

moved without lowering our standards.

‘Fraternities... .

Perhaps I am on the inside looking out
since I am a fraternity man, but never-the-
less [feel justified in saying a few words
in defense of the system which is under
constant fire throughout the country to-
day.

The movies, the magazines, and the
newspapers all carry frequent articles de-
picting the evils of ‘this type of social
group. They harp on the undernocratic
principles upon which the «fraternity sys-
tem is built, yet they never mention the
system of eating houses and so called clubs
which are so prevelant in Institutions
where fraternities are not found. Most of
these organizations make the fraternity
system look like a Eutopian Democracy in
comparison to their own social cast system.
by eliminating fraternities we do not re-
move snobbishness (when it is present,
and I do not think that it is at David-
son) but rather tend to build up classes
which in themselves much

are worse,

Even so, the fraternities are not with-
out fault. We come by some of this criti-
cism quite justly, and must in some cases
modify our actions to meet a changing
world, There are three things which we
can do to better ourselves and the sys-
tem. First of all, we must stress scholar-
ship. In this way we defy the criticism of
the educator who says fraternities are
detrimental to scholastic achievement
Secondly, we must abolish such practices
as so called “Hell Week’. One of the
many just criticisms of the system is the
reference to.cases where men have been
seriously injured by these practices. The
whole of the fraternity system is not worth
the health of a single individual. Third,
we can attempt to learn to live better with
our fellows and in this way be a tremen-

dous aid to our community, country and

to our world.

Where was Throttlebottle when
the lights went out? That is a
question to which quite a few per-
sons, including -my boy himself,
want to know the answer, since
the whereabouts of Regatso were
unknown for three full hours on
the night of the recent blackout
of Davidson College and vicinity.
Reertso-—was-—studiously engaged
with his Economics assignment
which happened to be a report made
by several worthy members of Con-
gress on the relation between the
price of. egg noodles in southern
Saskatchewan and the’ evolution
theories of the Zyswigians. It is,
of course, true that my boy was
rather dull from excessive exposure
to such a delightful subject, and his
eyesight was considerably impair-
ed by the two marvelous shiners
that he incurred while attempting
further to delay one carload of the
Queens choir from appearing at
last Friday’s chapel program, (Ed.
note—the above statement is con-
trary to the excuse given in chapel
for the-delay, but it’is known that
Throttlebottle’s information is cor-
rect.’ His girl friend, Nastursium
Daisyfinger, was in the car, and
Regatso was determined to see her
for a few minutes, despite the rul-
ing of the director that two free
minutes would be allowed at David-
son, one before and one after the
program. When the choir director
slugged him, considerably injuring
his outlook on life, he became thor-
oughly disgusted and revealed the
facts of the case to the author.)
Suddenly all became infinite ebony
but he refused to believe that he
was completely blind. He scrambled
to his Number 12s and made his
way into the hall, hampered only
by two chairs, innumerable mis-
placed articles of clothing, and a
dozing roommate. .By this time
he had realized that it was not he
that had blacked out -but rather
everything external to himself. He

restored soon, so he returned to
his desk and reapplied himself to
his studies with the aid of a wood
alcohol burning cigarette lighter.
With the passing of time the room
began to possess a very alcoholic
odor, and my boy’s vision was
scarcely functioning. “The fuse
box, that is the answer!” flashed
across _hisfuzzy—senses,—and—he
sallied forth, sprawling over the
obstacles earlier encountered, in
addition tofa heap of trash stra-
tegically located immediately in
front of his door. Artiving at the
fuse box much the worse for wear,
he began poking around in_ its
interior. I shall not insult the in-
telligence of the reader by‘inform-
ing him of the outcome of this noble
experiment, but instead merely
state my boy is now being employed
afternoons in Physics’ lab as a
source of eurrent.

When he recovered enough to sit
up again, the inkiness still con-
sumed him. He struggled to his
feet and headed in what he thought
was the right direction to his room.
Instead he plunged down the steps
of the dormitory into a pile of
leaves which luckily broke his fall.
By this time my boy was—if one
could have seen him-~-visibly agi-
tated. He charged back down the
hall of his domicile, flung open a
door, and ¢barged possessively into
the blackness of the room, only it
wasn’t his! The occupants took
the liberty of forcibly expelling his
august presence, and he landed
once more in the hall, surrounded
by the wailings of the other souls
in the same predicament as he was.
Regatso was not very coherent in
the rest of his story, and I could
only catch fragmental mention of
fallings and expulsions and wan-
devings galore. The upshot of the
whole matter was that my boy
slept through all his, Friday classes,
flunked two quizzes, cand still re-
tains a vacant stare whenever
Thursday night is mentioned.

decided that the lights would be

Down Fraternity Court

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Most of Beta Chapters brothers
were operating away from the cam-
pus, leaving Friday and Saturday
for different parts of the state.
Seems that Brothers Robert Stroup
and Chick Neill got the earliest
start leaving Friday morning for
Chapel Hill—and all that it stands
for. Brother Rosser Clark was
shown the beauties of married life
Saturday _night-when the Belle of
Belmont decided that cooking at
hotne was much nicer than going
out to eat. Brother Clyde Stroup,
known now ‘as one of the “Hell
Drivers,” didn’t quite make it to
the game at Chapel Hill but he
did make it to the dance at Queens.
Brother Joe Bell was seen sneak-
ing out of the Teen Age Club in
Statesville Saturday night with
someone else’s date. Brothers
Dockery, Leonard, and others say
that they remained on the campus
all the week énd, but we doubt that
this is true in all cases, especially
in the case of Brother Dockery.
Brother Turner admits only to a
quiet’'time at home. The Asheville
boys were off to the hills again.
Seems that those hills have a call-
ing that eant’ be resisted, or maybe
it’s just what.those mountains hold.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

The Autumn Nocturne, a term
loosely and naively applied to the
ball dropped by Queens College last
Saturday to enliven their social life,
was not attended by Tom “The Par-
rott’ Snodgrass, and Amoose Ragan
who whiled the time away with the
giving of a_farewell party for
Brother Bill Korbel, who has left
Davidson College for a wholesome,
well-rounded life in the outside
world. Ragan seems to have de-
veloped an aversion for the word
Tyrone during the evening, -quaff-
ing another glass of milk at” its
every mention. Valiantly holding
up the chapter honor were Sam
Maloney and Pledge Charles Elyea,
living examples of the rhyme virtue
won't hirtue, who spent the noc-
turnal hours happily.

The Rock Hill Kids went home
again. Must be something besides
rocks down there. Dick Blanks led
the home seekers, trekking to Nor-
folk and back. Also home were the
brothers McKiethan. Leighton
came back with a dress collar cov-
ered with lipstick.

BETA THETA PI

The Beta co-operative boarding
house opened Monday morning with
a bang. We are now willing to dis-
pute the rash claim made last week
that someone else had the best
boardnig house on the campus.

Sons of Wooglin seen at Queens
last week end were brothers GRAY,
ELLINGTON, McCONNELL, H.
NEISLER, WILLIAMSON, Mc-
CLOY, BOBBITT, CARPER,
SCHMIDT, ETHERIDGE, TUCK-
ER, PHILIPS, and pledges BARR
and SCRUGGS. Brothers McCON-
NELL, ‘TUCKER, and PHILIPS
had the extreme honor of being
in the figure, you might say they
cut quite a figure. However, Phil-
ips was as usual engrossed in a
combat story and failed to meet his
date as she came/ through the Q,
What we want to/know is, who got
A, J. his date, late, that is? Strange
as it seems, a knocked out time was
had by all.

Biggest deal of the week: Pledge
BUDDY CHANDLER and his home
town cohorts wheeled all the way
to Norfolk in that antiquated Ford.
Took them 11 hours, returned at
4 a. m. Monday.

Way to distinguish a Beta: Does
he walk on crutches? Ask CRANE
and BOYD.

PI KAPPA: PHI

Brothers Reid, Delaney, and Lan-
der had quite a little party on
the river after the dance Saturday
night. “Boom,” away as usual,
attended a-house-party in Blowing
Rock. Brother Evans journeyed
to Hickory and then. to Chapel Hill.
Brother Gaither and Pledge Boykin
attended the Queens affair Satur-
day night. “Lover” Sinclair missed
seeing Ann this week and went to

Wilmington. President Robertson

can once again join in on the week-
end merry-making. It is rumored
that Brother Carpenter was making
mad love over the week end.
Due to unfortunate circumstances
Brother Read spent a gay time in
the infirmary Saturday night. Fitz,
did you miss Tootie very much,?
Anyone interested in buying a
Knit tie see Abraham D. Walker.
SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Quite a few plans for the near
future have been laid down by the
SPE boys, probably the most im-
portant being those for a Christ-
mas party to be held on December
14. A Sunday night feed has been
planned for this week end to be
held after the Vesper service.

Several of the brothers took off
early for their week-end celebra-
tions. Brothers Wier and Lilly
headed south to Charleston while
Robinson had his activities con-
fined to Bristol. Sellars and Sell-
ars headed south early Saturday
morning where they spent the week
end at Brenau College in Gaines-
ville.

The Queens dance drew several
of the boys from the Epsilon’s
ranks while two of the brothers
were seen at the informal affair
up at W.C.

Since Davidson had an off day,
several of the boys hit the road for
the major games in the state and
from all reports everyone enjoyed

news when Tate has two dates for
one dance; it is news when he
sleeps.

Chalk down a 200 per cent week
end for Pledge Brother John Wilk-
ins. He dated four girls in two
days. Included in his rounds was
the Salem College dance over which
he shows much enthusiasm. With
him at Salem were Brothers Mc-
Clean and Iverson plus Pledge
Brothers Hollister and Brenniger.

Other Phis returned from Queens
with joy over their fine Saturday
night dance. Seen tripping the
light fantastic on the Q. C. ball-
room floor were Ed Golden, Dicks
Todd, Bob Stephens, Kennedy
Smart, and Wilson Crupacker.

Bill Foote went all the way to
Washington, D. C., for his weekly
operations. He claims his mission
was one of business (advice to the
President or some such); however,
we have reasons to-remain dubious
concerning this statement.

S. A. E.

The finale to Brother Ford Lit-
tle’s act tops them all this week-as
he slipped the noose over his neck
and over Betty's finger.«/ Standing
by in Greensboro to support the
conqueror were Brothers Hodgin,
Hill, and Pledges McAlister, R.
Little, B. Little, Rogers, Vance,
and, for a short time, Pledge Wil-
cox. Since the big event, Brother

(Continued on Page 4)

Cinema Comments

Monday and Tuesday
November 25-26
© “Night and Day”
This is a technicolor production
of Cole Porter’s life weaving its
scenes from his musicals, all of
which lends a definite charm to his
beloved songs. Regardless of a few
scenes which drag, the beautiful
settings, a well chosen cast, excel-

“the Runaround”., Yes, there is no
information to be found concerning
this motion picture except the fact
that the cast includes Ella Raines,
Rod Cameron, and Frank © Mc-
Hugh. Judging from these char-
acters, it might be said that the
picture may be classed as a light
comedy.

lent photography, and the musical
arrangements make this an out-
standing motion picture for all of
the family. Cary Grant plays the
part of Cole Porter and is support-
ed by such stars as Alexis Smith,
Monty Wooley, Ginny Simms, Jane
Wyman, and Mary Martin.
Wednesday and Thursday

November 27-28

“The Runaround”

After having searched through
all the files and movie reviews
which are at my disposal, your
reporter has come to the startling
conclusion that he has been given

—Friday-and Saturday
November 29-30

“Sunset Pass”

“Sunset Pass” is a better than
average shoot-’em-up-bang-bang
Western. However, it has to do
with the usual money headed for
the bank, the inevitable ‘hold-up
involving a youth who is a victim
of circumstances, his sister and
the casual hero. Our hero is
played by James. “Always-Gets-
His-Man” Warren who also man-
ages to get his little prairie flower
in the end. Others in the cast are *
Joan Leslie and Jane Greer.

The Operating Table

By 2???

COUNTESS

In .a gpecial dispatch to the
Davidsonian, the Washington office
of the Unassociated Press released
the operation of the decade in an-
nouncing the admission of the first
Austrian immigrant to the U.S.
of A., Countess Ena Bettzimmer,
who was described by immigration
authorities as an Austrian countess
visiting the States in the hope of
recovering a young lieutenant of
the American infantry who had
stolen her heart while stationed in
Vienna. Her only means of identi-
fication lay in the fact that her
lieutenant had silver bars on every-
thing he wore. :

Immediately recognizing the
dashing lieutenant by the descrip-

tion as Machesney Hill Jeffries,
renowned Georgian casanova spend-
ing several months in Davidson to
recover health shattered in the
trying ordeals of the occupation,
Editor Sutton, who suspected at
once the most delectable story of
love since the lady that was known
as Woo, hastened to Washington
to obtain direct evidence. As a
result of the encounter, the David-
sonian proudly presents the pic-
ture included above, but announces
with regret that Editor Mullethead
is spending several months in-bed
to recover health shattered in the
trying ordeals of the delegation.
Jeffries, who retreated in haste
to the Okefenokee Swamp upon re-
ceipt of the news, has returned
cautiously to his old haunts about
the student store.

At present there is some con-
jecture as to the addressee of the
dedication’ penned across the pic-
ture, but none as to its content,
herewith accuratly, as the custom
of the Davidsonian, reproduced.

Whatever I do,
Believe me one thing
T'll always love you

- More than anybody.

Mile. Bettzimmer was reported
as last seen about with a former
aviation radioman third class.

Jeffries stated, “I feel that my
conduct in the matter has been
in every way exemplary. She is a

fine girl, and I enjoyed every mo-
ment of her acquaintance.”
