think the Wild-
cats must have a
jinx on them this
season, —_ especially
When it comes to the
point where they
lose some of their}|=
games by three or
four points even af-
ter having a lead
over their ypponent
during some phase
of the game. At any
rate with the post
war tea that is
slowly shaping up
we can look with
expectation for next
season's matches.
Phen, don’t
forget that there is
to be a new gym for this team to practice in, which also
has its advantages.

By Sterling Edwards

too,

Some of these returned veterans who have made the
team include Captain Led White, ¢ Bill Hod-
gin, Mendler, Yarborough, All have
seen action before on the Wildcat squad except Mendler
“43 on the team that
semi-finals in the Southern Conference.

worge Peters,

Lou and

‘Tommy
Peters played here in went to the
‘That means that
Davidson will have Peters to bank on for another season.
Hodgin started off in treshmian ‘ball in the ‘42-43 season.
and later moved up to the varsity when the freshman team
disbanded. ‘That leaves two more years for him when this
season is over. Yarborough,
the Wildeat five in 1941,

now a senior, was captain of

so this will be his last season.

Mendler played on the Carolina ‘varsity in his freshman
year, which leaves him eligible for two more years of bas-

ketball. With half of the season gone these nev

have a slim chance of putting the ‘(

cagers
vats Where thy belong,
but who really cares now if they will only pull us through
the remainder of the season without losing a game?

The best athletic news to thrill everyone is that Davidson
is now back in full swing in all sports departments. We
now have'a full football staff héaded by Lill Storey with
Chet Chapman and Charley Jamerson assisting. ‘Those
names.are enough to make any war deprived college happy.
Storey left the head coaching job at Gramby High in
Norfolk, Va. with 20 straight Wins to his credit—a_ re-
cord hard-to beat.

Jamerson will also take over as baseball,coach. His
actual exper ience in baseball came when he played for the
University of Arkansas, not to mention six years of pro-
ball in the International and Eastern Leagues. (Of course
a man doesn’t live altogether on his past reputation, but it
helps a gréat deal).

Spring practice is scheduled to begin in two weeks.
Coach Storey won't have to work with new material al-
together, as we now have with us five boys who have played
under him at Gramby. They are: Bill Boyd, Buddy Chan
ler, Hal Mapes, Jene Iskey, and Tom Guy.

rather neglected phase of sports here at Davidson
is wrestling. Who knows, we may put out a spectacular
team one day in the future. At least in the 125 pound
class we can bet heavily on—Ted Brothers, who can hold
his own against almost any 135 pounder. Ted has only
lost one match in the past two years while at Woodberry
Forest, and he now is hoping to make a trip to the Inter-
collegiate matches at Le High in Penn. soon,

COMING ATTRACTIONS:

FEB. 8-9 — “THE SPANISH MAIN”

—Maureen O’Hara, Paul Henried

FEB. 11-12— “UNCLE HARRY”

—George Sanders, Ella Raines

FEB. 13-14 — “MEN IN HER DIARY”:

—Jon Hall, Louise Allbritton

FEB. 15-16 — “PEOPLE ARE FUNNY”

—Rudy Vallee, Ozzie Nelson

FEB. 18-19 — “DUFFY’S TAVERN”

—Marjorie Reynolds, Victor Moore

FEB. 20-21 — “INCINDIARY BLOND”

—Betty Hutton

FEB. 22-23 — “SPELLBOUND”

—Ingrid Bergman, Augary Peck

FEB. 25-26 — “LOVE LETTERS”

—Joseph Colton, Jennifer Jones

946 _.

“Thuraday, February 2 i

Wildcat Sports

_THE DAVIDSONIAN

FURMAN DEFEATS ’'CATS.

FURMAN TAKES
TWO FROM ’CATS

TWICE

’CATS SCORE AGAINST FURMAN

Technical High School as head foot-

ball coach in 1930. He became head
Yootball coach at Memphis , State
Teachers college in 1942. His Mem-
phis Tech team had’ won 22 con-
secutite games when he left to
take the college assignment.

theatre.

the European

His promotion to the rank

of major came in 1945,

Mr. Spencer's
Davidson

app
tempora
expects to pursue grad
History ‘at Harvard
September 1946.

is

ointment . at
ty, since he
uate study in
University in

Chamers Shines

For Furman Five

S eaeman © ots Peters
P Lead Wildeats

Win First Game 38-36; Second
Game 49-46 In Close Victory

el

om Greenville, South Carolina
Accepts Position With Shuford Furman University’s Purple invaded
Mills At Hickory Ithe Wildcat lair last Tuesday and
\thletic Director Normaft Shep-| Wednesday nights and wént home
Rd cots DUvidenie Collepen hase anal iuetw omwellcenritcd| valde closely,
: contested victories over the Red and

nounced the signation of Line |
i] cagers. Davidson brought a
Coach Lawrence Spearman Ac I tine up almost completely changed
cording to Mr. Shepherd, Spearman | from the team which split even with
he ed a position as Person-|Purman three weeks ago, but was
nel Director of the Shufosd Mills] °U! unable to stop the Palmetto
aMiaien: state boys as they took down 38-36
; and 49-46 wins. Both games were
Ih thedrawitg from the field of | similar hard foughtand action pack
coaching Mr. Spearmap expressed | ed from start to finish, with David-
: miminenenenliysiieeditanneintelco. leading each time at the half
only to drop behind in the waning

ment at Jraving to leave the college, itronrénts

for whieh he holds great affection.

Paced by George Peters, Lou
| A native of Chester, S.C, Mr./Atendler, and Bill Hodxin, all playing
run mecame to Davidson as end? ther first game after returning
I coach lassistant back fieldomen- | from service, Davidson’ jumped to

March, 1937. During the pre-|4 duick lead in the first’ game and

} vit Nine years he had guided the }for a time seemed to outclass their

ee lestiny of the Chester” High Sehool | epponents. Furman soon recovered,

Feleyven. In that period his charges | however, and whittled the Wildcat

( : lwone the “State championship five | lead to 18-15 by the half. The visi-

hz ile Jamerson O ,ecomMme eens coring 2,300--points while | tors, by the sharpshooting of Janky

a y i iting their opponents to a scanty | Ernest Chambers, came out strong

liv7 For the last two years he has |#tter halftime, going ahead and

a Naval Lt. The greater} staying for the remainder of the

ea ase Ja Oac! is ear): al time being spent at*the | contest Peter's all-over-the-court

Gilet Wh. Naval Air Station play and White's set shots featured

————EEE the Davidson attack. Chambers was

MACK. HARRELL highpoint man for the evening as

To Be Assistant) i (¢ ee ean : o na if trod cin’ he garnered thirteen points, while

ulliavd Graduate School to stuc F hi i ;

Football Coach) Several years later, cane his ies | By Mac Hart : 1 very valuable man to the followed close behind with — nine
cesstul debut appearance with the Ed White; the stocky little ex- High scorer in 7 ofothe 12 Haat

Expected To Assume New [Now York. Philharmonic SYMPHONY | oeviceman Who has gained the ad- |) he has already racked Wea depen

Coaching Duties February Orchestra followed by several Pe-liniration of. Davidson basketball | up 13s 4 this-seasom-one point aN, on a i Might Davidson scem-

15 citals in the ‘East and a tour of} fans by his deadly acctiracy on those {more tha made in "43 a LOVE leaded for revenge as
Rirope, singing sin Amsterdam) thee i ianded set slots, has been play Led’s fathre preacher, was en we soon gained a ten point. lead

Davidson College emerging from} Hague, Vienna, Munich, Milan and J ing basketball for a long — time. | th rei Nikhimsthools. paskerballjeout with Stewart and Bowers get-
war years of curtailed athletics,| Budapest. On his wreturn to the] yfror two. vears wir cXperience on|}team ever organized in Charlotte, Ung into the basket, Furman Crepe
disclosed plans last week for its United, Stateshe appeared twice | ¢, iner Davidson! basketball_teams,-and awas-captain_of Davidson's team {UP within two points as the “Cats
return to a full intercollegiate sports as soloist with the Bostom Symphony lhe is captain of the team this year fone of the four years tiat le play Hay pated at the haltway mark, The
program with the announcement of | Qrehestra under Serge Noussevit- ie Sit, aptain, however, is— not Jed here ues Ssain played a strong second
Charley D. Jamerson’s assignment|Zky. also with’ the National |, ew experience for him, He wasp bd also plays football and a little Hk !, quickly taking the lead and
as assistant football and head base-|Orehestral Association, the Montreal) contain of ,Darlineton’s team his|tennis. He played wingback on the Bae it only’ once momentarily,
halieaoaGaly Symphony under Rugence Ormandy | aio a\erre there ellen eliseteammeresiinan cud: iis dirst year, on the|- pam vers shared scoring honors
as rid andthe Philadelphia Orchestra un-] ont to the «mid-south—semi-finals.| varsity his second, and plans to play we HOHE IXvington as they
ee Se VERN tela der Rachmanioff r ii | He entered Davidson in the fall | otha again next fall a ne Pans ere a ae
the Tennessee coach comes to Da hdd nurestene au we Lor W942 and was one of-three fresh | ed te HLMAAB GL ed ANd aust lor shot led Davidson AM
GideaRCcAT ame neulnernete (a lk career came with the 1939 MStTO: Jimen.tg make the varsity squad that UU ATA but serappy and full of eyelet eaten aviate
Coach Car! Giavelys: staif at the Dae pees ANueluane St: te Atte | yea Hee wen! Oe EUe SEER S ee (UIE Ly alse ASveter ano} spent witl twelt
ia ee oes eat alien He il first place angie Mie ane} ibottt thre middle oi the next season | live months ol BORN ue he ee : a
TeGi Rah toe Giacleetin| an 4 co stants and was awarded A on vatter scoring 137 points in 13 game a, it Tin He and his wite ot re ee - kbinforced hy. the addition of
- LATIRE I TRG eA eae ora Rena thousand dollar ee in addition toly> of which Davidson won. As an | Miss Carol Meade ae \s ashe po Pete r Hod in, Mendler and Tom-
Alem pitts college whlancereusnended n Cee tor es eee deceaee } Air corps cadet, he played for the |! icky, live out in ee ‘ S IIS my z , Davidson showed
football tn 1944 because of*the. war. Seven Zo See NOUS! jWiatca Memy Air Wield. team that}at present, 4 AL noe on Ma PEQusiger provement over past.

ment of the victor a newspaper re 7 out of 28 games and evenfuinia. He plans to be a teacher and | games ese new boys were

Announced by Davidson Public] porter asked Harrell what he would | peat Wright Field. He returned toda coach, and spends most of his } naturally of practice and_ still
Relations Director John Pgyne,|do if he won. “If T win,” he answer-| pavidson this year just in time to|spare time not taken up by basket \1 ok f ged. The ’Cats
| Jamerson’s signing was* regarded as}ed quietly, “I'll work like a’ fiend. | Jay in the first game, and he has ball in studying. } st d toa be Tess agressive than
completing Davidsow’s coaching ros-|And if I don't win, Tl study like | = jt ‘ isitor and were noticably
ter, paving the way for the col-/a fiend.” Mr. Harrell has carried} ED WHITE, CAPTAIN BASKETBALL TEAM | weak in,eetting their tips and in-re-
leve’s resumption of intercollegiate |out, that resolution to the letter. | ring the ball from the back-
competition in all major spors Each yearin-addition to his heavy | | vourd. They were finable 86” crack

TAINUESO RE Ia eR GGtRUC ToMakccinie schedule at the Metropolitan Opera | | furs i tight defense, most ‘of
Hie new, COAGINeEtigg eRe Ret He has_made outstanding tours OF ate ts. being made from be-
ruary 15 along with Bill Storey, es ie ‘ BNEteN dS eUropG: Ets ACRE G SEED GS throw circle. The
recently announced as the college’s} '* participated: in alll of the major st nselves appeared a_ bit
ae head ITSP G RET music festivals and the opera sea- il

: sons in San Francisco, Chicago, St.| eee

Davidson's completed coaching] Louis and Montreal; toured with
lineup finds Storey, Jamerson. and}the Wagner Opera Company ; star- NOEHREN
Chet Chapman slated for the foot-|red- on jeadingcoast to coast net= Continued from pace 1)
ball assignment, while Athletic Di-] work programs and guested on | : “ge
rector Norman Shepard, will handle | many more }decessor of Bach, Dietrich Buxte-
basketball and physical education; ee ere I inmual festivals of church
3ill _Lufler, tennis; Jamerson, base- MAJOR SPENCER music and a series Of broadcast con-
ball; and Heath Whittle, track. (Continued from Page 1) :

Jamerson is a graduate of the} °°”: Major Spencer) spent a year I Buttalo Courier-Express re
University mei Nae tn dive GEE with the Vick Chemical Company cently commented on a program
of 1922. He played end, tackle and} '" sclling ane advertising = Holeres s by St. John’s choir; “St. John’s
fnethiee pacetieiie one thet sotballl isuuacunto Davidson in! 194] and be- choir, directed by Robert Noehren,
WHERE pildiadlanm=atredipr ait came, associate professor of Mili- offered interpretations notable for
(ean tinea tary Seience and Tactics (R.O.T.C.), musical feeling and laudable fitness

From’ 192410 1920 emeriun Glteh: PU eee use State in feel ical matters, ‘Alma Redemp-

ees A f 8.Q.T.C., he was called to toris’ by Palestrina was presented
ed professional baseball ‘leagues, active duty in 1943 and sent over- with egcellent regard for balance
playing three years in the Interna- seas with the 349th ‘Replacement é fine quality of tone. Mr. Noeh-
tianal loop and three in the East- Company. He later served as a has_proved—his musicianship on
ery league” Me went to Memphis|captain of infantry in

many

occasions and his performance

adhered

to previous standards.”
R } . Ie» f ,
Robert Barrows, . professor ‘df
music at Williams College, com-

mented after Mr. Noehren’s recital
there, “Robert Noehren is the finest

organist in America today.”

