Page 2

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, May 9, 1947

The PWavidsontan

Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

i
&e

Editorials

he

~DAVIDSONIAN

Ltrs

GY resents

Cheatures

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

BOB PHILLIPS a
BUSINESS MANAGER

BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF cs ;
scdadsddendcccesesuce . Sports Editor
.--- Feature Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Manhgihg Editor

.. Managing Editor
_ Staff Photographer

Sam Ervin ~
Bob Rierson
Walter Mann --
Bill Calhoun
Ronny Dietrick
Stan Kennett
John Stewart

as guess:

Bob Hollister Exchange Editor
BUSINESS STAFF

Bob Gambrell - eae _. Assistant Business Manager

Frank Lemmon Advertising Manager

John MaNair Circulation Manager

Bob Cline Circulation Manager

Bill Baxter Circulation Manager

Charles Dockery Collection Manager

Reporters: - F
seed, Rees Jenk

Lonnie Turnip
Bill Johnson, |

B. Re

rank Len

1. Schwaemmie, | ifearn

. Bill Bogart, F

1On,

Frank Allred, Ernest Hunter, Kent Christopher
Sports Reportérs!— Charles Cunningham, Jack Hazard, Mac
Hart.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at

Davideon, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

an instrument of torture for me and my
room-mates,

The situation wasn't too bad back-in the
winter months when the school was more
or less isolated by monsoon and exam, but
with the coming of spring, that telephone
rings constantly from dawn until midnight.
Now, don’t get me wrong, I’m all for these
modern appliances — | think they’re great,
but when it comes to a choice between
having verbal’ contact” with the outside |
world or being reduced to a mental and|
physical wreck, I’m in favor of yanking |
the telephone out by its roots. |

|
However, | am really not an abolitionist, |

SUBSCRIPTION RATES _
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATICNAL ADVERTISING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.

CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of
Collegiate Digest

To The Seniors...

Next Monday night, May 12, the last
Dawidsonian ot the current school year
will be put together. For You departing
graduates, that issue will represent your
final opportunity for public expression as
Davidson students. Stop a minute -—_ a
rather sobering thought, isn’t it? Realizing
that every man leaving “the hitf probably
has something to get off his chest, some
word of advice for those who folfow in his
footsteps, or a note of thanks or tribute
to leave behind him, we deem it nothing’
less than duty to reserve tor the seniors
adequate “speaking space” in the last issue.
This invitation to “speak up” is not tender-
ed especially to those seniors who are jour-
nalistically inclined — response trom them
is taken for granted — >the constructive
contribution of every man who writes the
english language is mest welcome on these
pages,

Albot You have been here over a period
of years, how great the span depending
on such varibles as draft board and quality
point quotas, and we feel that you must
have a message for the college in general
and for your inheritors in particular.
“Speak departing “big wheels.” speaks .de-
parting “little wheels” forever hold
your peace with the school that has foster
ed you!

or
—k.D.P.

Sunday Visits...

One of the long standing local traditions
which has been sadly neglected this year
is that of visiting in faculty homes Sun-
day evening -after vespers. Many stud-
ents cither don’t realize the opportunity
contained therein, or have fear of being
tagged a “boot-licker” or by other suitable
synonyms, The benefits that may be de-
rived from this custom are not necessarily
those of higher grades but rather those of
friendship with men whoare leaders in their |
work and wham to: know is worth fully)
as much as many other advantages o tain: |
ed in college. |

The faculty members prepare, each Sun-
day evening, fora groupof mento visit. In
the past, they might he reasonably sure
they would have callers. but this year, men
seem to shy away and fail to appear on
the scene. Give this situation a thought
_and let’s get to know our professors better,

—W. W. Calhoun

Letters To The Editor

Dear Editor :-

T'am one of those few unfortunates who
live in a room-adjacent to a dormitory
telephone and I have a complaint to lodge
against my building-mates in regards to
the answering of the supposed mechanism
of convenience, which is rapidly becoming

]

1
|

nor am I an impractical dreamer who en-)
visions hired telephone orderlies — I am
jistan- overworked “answerer” who is de-.

| sperately pleading for a communal effort
in this task. Some of you second and third,
and fourth floor fellows and some residing
| beyond the mid-line of the first floors are
surely weeping crocidile tears for me. at
this point, but I maintain [ have a legal
complaint,

In a ecent tally recorded by one .of
my co-complainant room-mates, the phone
in our dormitory rang thirtysseven times
| during a period from six forty-five in the
morning until twelve thirty-five at night;
of these thirty-seven incoming calls, thirt¢
one had to be answered by me or my room
mates !

When we first moved into the room this}
year, we were resigned to the fact that
we would be disturbed by, the telephone |
and that we would have to answer a lot!
41 carly and late calls when it was easier
for us to tumble out of the sack than for
the rest of our more distant dorm-miates |

a-bed. This, however; we accepted as the
price to pay for a room conveniently locat-
ed. all

friends residing elsewhere in the dormi

We- ot course assumed that our
tory were capable of answering the tele-|
phone, and that they would help us share)
the burden throughout the day. These we!
soon learned were the fallacious dreams of |
idealists: and we sadly learned that. the!
dormitory-wide reaction to phone calls at
any time was: “Aw, don't
ring; those nice boys in the end room will
catch it.” and ‘catch it’ we have to such a
degree that we cringe every time that *7!

‘phone commences to jangle.

bother, let’er

Now as remedy to whatowe think is a
deplorable situation, |-don’t suggest that
each room should take its turn on specific)
duty to answer the calls, nor do | propose
that the leading mathematician of each |
dormitory figure out just whom the next!
incoming call will be for, on a basis of
average individual popularity, and politi-|
cal position. | admit that my solution to)
the problem is a bit more complicated, but!

a trial and“practiced for a few days that|
it will be a feasible one. This might be
asking a bit too much but here is the es-|
sence of my plan: that those hundreds who}
by-pass a ringing ‘phone each day on their |
leisurely ways about the dorm take it upon)
themselves to detour three paces and sacri
Hee a few seconds to answer a call.

; : .|
It really is astounding the number ol

otherwise thoughtful dormitory residents
who leave it to.the “other fellow” to go
ta this slight inconvenience. Extreme cas-
es: (1) motoreycle mechanics working
within grease-gun shootin’ distance of a
ringing telephone and being so ‘‘engrossed
in their work” that they couldn’t reach up
and relieve its urgent jangle, letting -it
run down like an alarm clock. (2) Seventy-
six .bull-shooters enjoying nature’s breezes
and theirs on a dormitory porch, The phone
rings. and what do they-do? Answer it?
No! They've developed a novel game —
wagering on how long T’ll let it ring be-
fore I break down and dash out to save an-
other gall. e
Please, fellows, a little help!!
Hopefully,

John McClure.

I sincerely believe that if the plan is given|'
neeresy believe that if the plan 1S BIVeN | overal occasions, but managed to

Breezin’
With

Bob

BY BOB RIERSON

oY

The Operating Table

OY

If you vainly watch and never see,

Your name midst the dealers of
old D. C.,

Have patience dear Frosh for the
time will come,

When the Table you'll make and
then get some

of dressing in the dormitories and
on the part of all Davidsonians|then starting the long trek to the
everywhere in regard to future de-| gym is far outdated and very both-
velopments in the physical plant of | ersome, to say the least.

the school, it might be well to syr- Another pressing need for the in-
vey and recommend and comment} creased population of this college
on necessary improvements in the |is the provision for several new
athletic department. The first ‘and | tennis courts. Even if the present

In line with various speculations

foremost topic of consideration is, Size of the student body is reduced |

of course, the new gymnasium | When the emergency is over, it is
which has been planned for several | impossible to see how seven or eight
years now. It would be useless to) tennis courts, enough for 28-or-30
f0 into the arguments for a new Persons to play on, are sufficient.
eym, when, upon looking at the old| Certainly there are more than 30
one, it is seen that there are no | out *of 600 who will wish to play
arguments against it. There is tennis each sunny afternoon.

every possibility that construction An innovation that has met with
will begin within the next years, Much success in other institutions
and southe specific plans have no|'§ the equipment checking system

doubt been made. Still there are) Which would be operated in one sec-

Be ;
‘certain things that must bear men- tion of the new gym, possibly at

tion which cannot be overlooked the same place where sweat clothes
from the students’ viewpoint. Not| Would be issued. Under this plan
the least among these is a PT dress- |several instruments of organized
ing system for those who take the| Play, such as baseballs, footballs,
course. The ideal is for each man| handballs, basketballs, would be
to be issued a basket of his own,| kept in the storeroom. The stu-
complete with lock and equipment |4ent, upon presenting a card or
(i.e, gym pants, shirt, socks), | Some such device, would be allowed
Which would be kept in certain | to check out a ball and use it as
places provided for the baskets, | long as he wished, with the provi-
such as a group of racks.» Then a| Sion that it would be returned by
system of lockers should be in-|8 certain time, say five o’clock, in
stalled which students could put|the afternoon when the window
their clothes into and lock. When) Would close. A list of prices for
they finished their class, they would | !0st and ruined goods could be
shower, in showers right there in, Posted so that the student’ could
the gym as well, get their change |*¢¢ the penalty to be paid for any
of sweat clothes, lock up their bas- | default. This system would be ideal
kets and leave. The next class would fo” voluntary exercise which plays
then take over the same lockers and Such a large part among the stu-
so on. The students would pay a/ dents now, even’ with the limited
fee at registration to cover the cost | facilities available.
of laundry service-for-their sweat7—Ptimary and first rank as studies
may be and certainly are, it is still
true that “All work and no play,
I believe that the plans for the | ete.” Davidson needs a new and
new gym call for a swimming pool, | improved physical education depart-
the standard equipment rooms, and| ment on a sufficiently large scale
other such rooms as are necessary.|in a world where healthy and nor-
A gymnasium should contain all fa-| mal bodies are becoming requisite
cilities that are needed for a thriv-|for the clear and incisive minds
ing. concern such as Davidson is| needed to solve present day prob-
coming to be. The familiar business | lems.

clothes.

Down Fraternity Court

KAPPA SIGMA

With.a few scattered remnants) decided to make a week end of it
on the campus, the Sigmas were | tt the beach. It wasn’t reported to
ina dealing fashion again last) US Which one it was, and we can-
week end. |not guess, since it generally

is

Of first importance is the word | known that all three know most |

’

that Tete Pearson, on the scene at| of the “beaches” in and around this
Churchill Downs, laid a large sum| country pretty well.
of a horse named “Jet Pilot”. No|
doubt we shall see a “new” Buick} to Blowing Rock, while Jim Wil-
cruising around the campus. On| liamson went to Gatley, S-C. Broth-
the other hand, Dum Dum Anyface| ers Heimby and Pahl decided that
lost his jockey in some two-bit race Greensboro held the most fascina-
in Asheville. | tion for them, so they spent the
The seniors spent a wild time at) Week end there,
Myrtle Beach. Footsie was caught) Brother John Coddington went
in the women’s dressing room on) to the May Day festivities at Hol-
lins, while Bill Baxter went to
have an excuse for the Law each Salem for the same reason. Each
time. Brother Taylor left with 30) has been arguing ever since about
cents and returned home with four- | the merits of his date and how much
teen dollars and twenty-two slot) better time he had than the other
machines. * could possibly have had, If we may
The latest report is that Doug be so bold, we shall say that the
Swink has now 49 per cent of the | week end must have been fine for
stock in the Bamboo Room. He is| both, and we call it a draw,
desperately trying to get that last | PI KAPPA PHI
1 per cent, but the owner is aw-} Because this-is a rush job for
fully stubborn, Brothers-Ken andj other reasons which I can’t men-
Slick were out roaming the streets | tion, some of ow more famous (or
of Charlotte, but were somehow |infamous) dealers’ dealings may
not caught, when trying to peek|not get the mention they so no-
into young women’s aparament win-| toriously deserve. Brothers Cline.

| things too “hot” for them here |

Brother Ford Little took his wife |

Name like Bone’s or Mullethead’s
handle,

Born of sin and weaned of scandal.

Tis only the wicked who make the
grade

And visit their folks with counte-
nance staid,

And this ill fame marks the upper-
class,

For you ROTC men don’t have the

| brass,

Of the Alpha Sigs and so must
roam,

'Safe from the wrath of De

| home.

| With this in mind read and learn,

|Of Juniors and Seniors deigned to
to spurn,

The prudent path and revelled in

~ sin,

Sufficient to shame Wake Forest
men,

They shed their cloak of purity,

And so must face their bitter tea.

an and

Prose is morose, but verse is worse.

THE TORCH (TURNBULL, an-
other Sigma) heaved the discus a
prodigious distance Saturday after-
noon against W & L and then sped
up to Sweet Briar with FREEMAN
JONES. It is reported that there
the two threw around far more
than a discus, and scored an even
greater number of points. Many
a rosebud was plucked fromthe
bevy of May Day flowers, and
JONES is now clamoring to put
on an exhibition on the Davidson
| golf course,

| BLACK JACK SHELDTON also
travelled the well trod road to the
Virginia city of hills and thrills.
After gamboling on the grass at
Randy Mac’s ceremonies, he for-
sook the educational grounds for
an institution of higher learning . .
and price. The housing situation
in Lynchburg is unusually good,
says Shelton.

As in other far off lands, a tense
situation came up in Winston-Sa-
lem.” It seems that GEORGE PAT-
RICK is the talk of the Salem cam-
pus after his Saturday night experi-
jence. Bodily speaking, GEORGE
|found himself the leading man in
|a co-operative scene before the
‘ruling elders of the faculty and a
few jealously. wide-eyed Salamis
‘(girls who go to Salem) in one
| of the college smoking rooms.’ But

only touselled (that’s tousled spell-
ed without the aid of the Noah side
of the Webster brethren) hair, a
reddened handkerchief and an ach-
ing heart remain.

Here in the hinterland, the Phi
Delts celebrated Queens-Phi Delt
Day (Saturday) with a golf course
excursion for the benefit of the
large number of their chapter con-
fined to quarters by the Junior G-
Men for banging in the dormito-
A steak fry at Erwin Lodge
was used as a ruse to lure nume-
rous misnomered Queens. Some
were won, some were lost, and all
were rained in, much to the dis-
comfort of PASSIONATE BILL
IVERSON and LEERING LE WIL-
LINGHAM, who were flushed by
| the shower from a vantage point
in a cluster of Dogberry.

Charlotte’s Woman’s Club held a
novel gathering Saturday evening.
Several hundred Betas, including a
|score of college presidents of the
| past and a few library assistants,
{swarmed from the Davidson hive
| to worship Wooglin in festive fash-
ion. By violation of the law of self-
preservation and the Mann Act,
sufficient feminine companionship
was acquired from the numbers of
the Queens Glee Club, the Meck-
lenburg Choral Society, and the
Carolina Hayride, The welkin rang.
MULE MOUTH attended with his
intended. WILLIAMSON, Woog-
lin’s anointed, also sported a maiden
fair. Many others stood around and
sang.

And that be all for the hour is late,

You nondescripts may bemoan your
fate,

Your hame ain’t here nor will
appear,

Till to the hill you return with fear,

Of the dreaded Cop or Smiling
Hugh, ’

And that group, thank Wooglin, is
few. ;

Editor’s Note: The Alpha Sigs
demand a small mention (about 200
lines) of their recent exploits. The
sun of Myrtle Beach burned each
as red as O’Hair’s nose. PORT dis-
covered deep seated evidence of
feminine companionship (the elas-
tic was broken). CROWELL vied
with THE HOCK for auto honors,
sporting a Big Black. MOOSE was .
loose and BARNWELL won the lov-
ing cup. TAYLOR did little except
with this week’s one and only. THE
BONE and PETERS went down on
Saturday, but managed to keep up
the pace. There were also varying
reports of the presence of HUGE
HAROLD MAXWELL, but these
are consigned to the class of rumor,
though proof (86) was abundant.

ries,

By Bill

Cinema Comments

Calhoun

s MONDAY-TUESDAY
“RETURN OF MONTE CRISTO”

This picture is about Monte

Cristo; the third in a series of pic- |

tures about Monte Cristo. The part
of Monte Cristo is played by Louis
| Hayward, who also played the part
_of Monte Cristo in the former pic-
| tures about Monte Cristo (and his
beloved wife). Barbara Britton is
the young lady in this picture about
| the “age of chivalry” when knight-
hood wast in fleur,
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY
“NOTORIOUS GENTLEMAN”

, | reen
‘co-starring

{chamber pot on the flagpole. After
jthe film has been American-puri-
| fied, he places a top-hat on the flag-
pole instead. The English version
lof the “life of a rake” is depicted
herein in a most interesting way.
FRIDAY-SATURDAY
“SINBAD, THE SAILOR”

| Strict fantasy, straight out of the
{story book version of Arabian
| Nights typifies this RKO produe-
tion in glorious Technicolor. Mau-
O'Hara is the beautiful woman,

with Douglas Fair-
Fairbanks has been de-

| banks, Jy.

Lilly Palmer and Rex Harrison i scribed in this picture as the “bold-
co-star in this British-made film.| est braggart who ever made his
| As shown in England, Harrison was | boasts come true... in the palaces
| thrown out of school for placing a| and harems of ancient Persia.”

Salem Day seems*to have cast a
charm on some of the fellows for

| endar

|

so he stayed “Home” this
week end. . . Is his face red!! ...

dows. Fatas, he laid low.

News Flash!, Cheek and Love
were seen flirting with two babes
in the show, Saturday night. What
a shame. Now they will have to
turn in their Eagle Scout badges.

There seemed to be a lonely look-
ing character in front of Chambers
Sunday night, looking for another
pick-up. Maybe next Sunday you
will have better luck, Suggs.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Our fine chapter sowed not wild
oats, but Violets, in all directions
last week end°as a number of the
actives left the campus to relieve
the monotony of it all. The hill
was particularly lonely without the
smiling faces of Brothers Carrow,
Port, and Harris, who, finding

Edwards, Reid, and Cox added fla-| Ov have you noticed.

vor to the Lenoir Rhyne dance. | KAPPA ALPHA

Brother Edwards came back with| Despite the grim shadow of
one.about two dogs in a telephone | forthcoming exams. the Knights of
booth, and also a story about. . sd Sigma have been able to keep up
well, I won't finish that one.|a good bit of South-wide dealing.

nA Herb Johnson took in the | Brothers Henry King and “Quincy”
ay Day dance at G. C, Brother | Adams wheeled into their ~home-
Bill Lander |

has a new queen atitown of Bri irgini
| ristol for the ‘Virginia
ae He dated her four “times | Intermont dance. Brother Barron
in three days and lost his. . , Lit| was also up that way but over at
book. Brothers Ned E. and “Pas-| Hollins
ry ” - « t -
ibd ed oe Patlgs hit the night} Membe:s of the band who played
Bae (Lou usually only hits the at the Converse May Day Saturday
ie spots). Congrats to Brothers and danced that night were Broth-
Cline and Tyler on their elections | ers Jack King, Flynn Lo: and
to the posts of Busin M i ; Ais a
A ess Managers |Chuck Kirby. Others who turned
. avi son and The Quips and/up were “Smiles” Lindsy, “Little
ranks respectively. “Berwyn show- | Man” Macauly, and Harris ‘“Mo-
ed Lord Odell a mistake in his cal- hawk.”

back up there last week end went
Brothers Harden and Mitchell and
also Pledge Brother Kabrich,

‘Most of the chapter were on
hand at Erwin Lodge Friday eve-
ning to play host to the group of
alumni who were present for a de-
licious barbecue. To prove that
the Betas don’t do all the singing,
Brother Jeffries, coached by Gen-
tleman Jim, led the group in aqme
of the old familiars.

BETA THETA PI
Wooglin smiled upon Phi Alpha’s
last dance week end of the year
and made it a complete success.
Even the occasional rains did not
dampen the spirits 6f most of the
brothers who, with their dates, en-
(Continued on Page 6)

