Our congratula-
tions to the whole Red
and Black squad on
their outstanding
Homecoming per-

the old

showed lots of

fire that’s known as
Wildeat spirit

We are elad that
Jim Sifford’s “injury

proved to be otro riore

serious then it wasted

knock oy the head
: °

wave Jim temporary

trouble in focusing his
iis eves, but the first
of the week feund him comple tely recuperated, The ’Cat
engine inissed his crackerjaek defensive halback playing al-
most as much as his offensive drive in the later stages of the
Many people never realized what a power Jit is on de-

By MAC HART

ame.

fense until they vot a load of Keydet backs seampering
around the ends for long gains and extra first downs,

We would like to single out. four Wildeats for special
aise dnd attention after the Keydet tussle. The big. forward
all deserves the usual eredit. The big V-M.L gains were
round thecends amd the drives up the middle didn’t’ go for

I ih. Standing out amone the linemen was tacklé Carl Eborn
scemed@to be every play and really played a bril-
nobel Lathe
AItholeh two subs stole the tailback spotlight, Regu-
lat Williams ¢ sin for special attention and deserves
UXT TTT tor the HOCUTIST OTs Perteery recoratl of colt
ersious for extra points, On beth of bis attempts, the screws
ere au: there Was the difference of a ball game. Both times
fhe oval neatly split the uprights giving Buek a perfect col-
legiate record of two for two : aah

Teilback Carl Sheppard stepped back inte-the limelight

in two beautiful plays. Taking the V.M.L kickoff after the
first WKeydet touchdown, Shep made a beautiful runback and

arly got away. On the very next play he took a short pass
Sifford under the noses of two Weydet backs and out-
sprinted them yards to get the “Cats back into the run-
with a bang. These two plays showed all the drive and
speed that ranked Shep first among the tailbacks on last year’s
edition of the Red and Black, and makes him a potential

from
dd

ning

rival for that post this vear, :
Cliff Turner’s inspired running’ in the final franfe put

fire in the Wildeat driye and set up the tying, TD. Clift, a

sophomore from Reidsville, has been out all seasom with a

fouch of versitis in his shoulder, Without high school experi-
ence, Cliff was developed by Coach Story last year as a passer
when goed passing was as scarce as hen’s teeth with the David-
nelub. However, Turner has taken just as well or better to

Me

bulldozing and has a season record of about four yards per try
in the ground gaining department,
Richimond’s Spiders seem to be a changeable team, on-

gain, off-again. After last week’s crushing loss to the power-
ful University of Virgttiaelevensthisds their day to be eliek-
In recent games, they have Jost to Rollins and Virginia
and beat Hampden-Sydney and V.M.1. Their 21-20 win over

V_M.L. is the clie that gives them a faint edge over the Cats ;a fumble on the
mn Richmond this week. Last year’s Spider crew lost oly [and inimediately
one man, Jack Null, 150-pound all-state center, through grad- | touchdown
uation. Their team should be about the sane with a little jcame in the

more‘experience that edged the Wildeats on Richardson Field
last Fall.

However, with the “Cats fresh from their Keydet tie, and |

the return to the lineup of such stalwarts as Bill Boyd, Buddy
Chandler, Carl Pahl, and Cliff Turner, giving Coach Story a
full roster to pick from, we do not hesitate to call the game
i) Davidson's faver.

Twelve of the forty-seven members of the Big Five Touch-

| the
team also helped in keeping the Pi-

Wildcat Sports sv:

Page

Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, November 7, 1947

formanee. It would
have been a “tough |
game to win and an |
even tougher one to |
lose. The “’Cats did |
themselves proud and

SHEPPARD IN OLD FORM

“

On the first play from scrimmage after the Key det touchdown, Sheppard gathers in Sifford’s pass
under the noses of the V. M. I. secondary and races to pay dirt.

A hard-fighting Pi Kapp team easil® downed the Pikas by a
score of 12 to 0. The Pi Kapp victory came as a result of a pass-
| Wy

a

Kapp backfield kept the Vikas deep

mm

kas
first t

the sta

Bol

as

| linesmen,

| shoulder

jrest of
Kappa Sigs 19, Pi Kappa Phi 0
The undefeated Kappa Sigs kept

their

close

KAPPA SIGS ST
AS INTRAMURAL

By FURMAN WARLICK

own
ne, Aol
to
ouchdo
rt as tl

Hong pass over the Pika safety. man.
| The defeat was costly to the

» Stror
st
and

the

r

se

territory throughout

yard charging Pi Kapp

Phe
aiter

their own goal,

Wh came soon

ve Vi Kapps recovered
Pika five-yard line
the
second touchdown

quarter

passed for

he
second

onoa

Pikas
ype, one of their star
iffered a dislocated

will be out for the
ason, :

ttack which the Pikas were not a
Kapps completely out-classed the Pika
bwere able to complete only one pass. Fin

L ON TOP
.S NEAR END

ble to stop. The Pi
team as the Pikas
le punting in the Pi

FRAT BASKETBALL
TO BEGIN SOON

By BILL CASSELLS
\ccording

Whittle,
over soon i
Tentative p
will begin a
ten days af
ment is ove
pleted in ab

depending on

Whittle
ketball coul

possible so

can be played betore the Christmas

bas

expressed hope

to Coach “Pete”
ketball is slated to take
n the intramural sports.
lans are that basketball
pproximately a week or
ter the
ie
out a week or ten days,
the

football tourna-
Football will be com-

weather. Coach
that

started as soon as
i

bas-
d be

that man of the games

JAYVEES TOPPLE

CHARLOTTE OWLS

\ c } : ! their record clean by subduing the | holidays. The reason for this is
“down Club” are listed on the Davidson roster, Mack Hrwin |p) Kapps 18-0. Soon after the start [that the gwames have to be played
A Jim Sifford vie-with Mulligan of Duke and Hagard of [of the game. the Kappa Sigs scored | whenever the gym isn't occupied by
Wake Forest for second, place scoring honors with 1s points Jon a long pass, Charlie Pearson to | the varsity or junior varsity teams.
apiece, Hiehest scorer of the loop is (ox of Carolina who has | Hob Wilcox, “The next touchdown An all probability, only 2S Ba
scored T1 points on conversions. Other Wildeat imembers of He A eae re Ving ts mats hae be ayes a As |
MoucHtow Cliibsinelitle Bnd Willies, Wade, Tuner, |e ce) acc aia iene ict einen eos iets nae ee cliga|
: Kappa Sigs recovered the ball in the | of the tournameiit considerably |
Adams, Anderton, Cheek, Sheppard, Roberts and Mapes. end zone. Kappa Sig scored tt | i (1))- _ |
~ In about four ov five weeks now, intramural basketball | 1" uy tae eu i . een +
i x : ; r trom earson to “Choir ces |
i] be vetting underway. If there is any interest amond the | 4.) ee an the ae Sane rhe Football Statistics |
Independents. in having several Independent teains in the | yecond hali was scoreless as neither | V.M.I. GAME
loop, now is the: time to falk it up and put the bug in Coach’ | team was able to put on Rann |
Whittle’s ear, As many Independents as there are bound to | tained drive: The Nappa Sig hin vine | Yds. Yds.
be invso large a student body whe would like to play basket- aes eel sya He eiubacene i | Atts. G’ned Lost Net is
a i fc ‘ Holding t opposims t O sie
ball, there is surely need for such an outlet for them. How- ait Citi as ae ag fu Sheppard. 5 22 8 14 28)
ever, the schedules are made up somewhat:in advance, so lets | Kappa Sigs look like a sure bet Sheppard - 2 11 G 125.5
pas ron ‘ : ; ; ; : jErwin -.. 14 65 2 63 4.5
lear some opinions on the subjeet, you interestd Indpendents. (for the tournament crown Sifford 2 4 0 4 2.0
Phi Gams 12; S.A.E.s 0 'Williams,B 3 7 0 7 2.5
led hy “Slinging” Jiminy |Adams _._ 2 7 0 7 3.5
French, the Vhi Gams continued | Anderton 1 1 ¢) 1 1.0
jon their victory march by downing | Turner _...6 26 1 25 4:16
the SAKs by a score of 12-0, The | Iverson 1 3 0 3 3.0
Phi Gams went ahead in the first Passing
0 jhalf when one of their passes Inter- Yds
| clicked for a touchdown atter | Atts Compl. cept Gain
{sustained march. They came back Turner : 2 SI 1 5
A CK WOOD I td lin the second half to score another Ravine 3 1 1 65
{ ; 9 ° ES Bape a short pass from sea) VAndeton eng 5 1 45
Mhe = AEs Ate Not able to make | SEASON AVERAGES
COMPANY ie threat as the Phi-Ganrs-outplayed } Rushing
= them during the entire’ contest. | Yds. Yds
OF CHARLOTTE | Beautiful punts kept the eS.AE.’s | pier :
atch niet Se ate rH Atts. G’ned Lost Net Av
back m heir owr erritory, we’,
pe = | . iSh = !
IS PLEASED TO PRESENT HSLAB, defense could not cope with peas i. eh e ie 4
|} the short passes from the Phi Gam eer ‘
‘ , ; Turner --_ 1 83 1 82 48
FOR YOUR APPROVAL backHeld ‘Gambets “6 1G; ig ean
: : | Betas 6; S.P.E. 0 Iverson __ 18 105 4 101 5.6
THEIR SELECTION OF | After being held scoreless in a|Fowle -.. 5 23 0 23 4.6
{closely contested first half, the | Sifford -- 41 158 48 106 2.5
THE FINEST IN IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC WOOLENS PHeta’s came back to defeat a stub- | Adams —__.12 58 11 47 3.9
[ jborn S. P. k. team in the second | Roberts 1 31 Q 31 31.0
MADE-TO-MEASURE IN CLOTHING meet During the first half both Anderton 13. 46 22 24 18
yteams were held scoreless by hard | Rice ---_- (Lee 74 5° 17 2.4
| charging lines. The second half was i
FOR MEN OF DISCRIMINATING TASTE | tee aries Sicres eee Passing
1; y as the Beta Inter- Yds
{capitalized on ‘the mistakes of the Atts Comp] cept Gain
~ AVES and on their own headsup Sheppard 21 8 2 54
i ¥ a ; pots
ALSO —— playing, The Beta touchdown came ! gifford _.2__ 4 1 0 16-
{in the fourth quarter when Smith Anderton SPE | 8 2 76
jintercepted a S.P.E. pass .and {Lambeth ___ 6 5 0 14
READY-MADE SUITS AND FURNISHINGS showed some beautiful open field | Turner ____- 3 2 1 719
A ‘running in carrying the ball back | | Wade 4 1 0 8
(Continued on Page Five) Williams, B.. 1 1 45

DAVIDSON WILDCATS TIE
VMI KEYDETS 14 to 14

Davidson's fighting

of

toe

Red And Black Team
Meets Spiders There

oA
Next Saturday revitalized

a
Wildcat team will journey to Rich-
mond, Vi tal on the
classy Ricl ynd . University
Spiders, in a ial encounter.
Fresh from their 14-14 tie with
anothes._of Virginia's highly —re-
garded clevens, t! V.M.I. Key-
dets, the Cats will strive tc ) over
the—Ste-nrari tor cond time
this season, as their season record
stands at the present time at 3
wins, 3 loss and | tie. The game
is a must for the Cats who are
still attempting to get into the win

column in Southern Conference
play, By virtue of their tie with
the Keydets, the Cats jumped from
the cellar 12th ahead of
such teams

to place,

as George Washington,
‘Citadel and Clemson. A win will
thrust the Cats two more notches
up the ladder, ahead of Richmond

and Furman
Spiders Defeat Keydets

The Wildcats will find the
Last Saturday night in the midst} Spiders no easy foe, and a hard
of the Homecoming — festivities, game is anticipated for the third
Davidson's Junior Varsity defeated | week jn a’ row. It was. this very
CUNC's Owls, 7-6, as Pete} same Richmond team that handed
Brown booted an extra point in | (ye Keydets a stunning 21-20 de-
the final minute of play. The point feat, on the streagti of John
climaxed a final drive into Owl] Zizak's three conversions. The
territory which countered when two] Spiders po sa speedy ground at-
previous drives had fallen short. tack led by Sugar tston, one of
The first half showed two evenly | Virginia's leading point makers and
matched teams battling to a score- |g powerful line buel in Jack Wil-
less tie with the Owls’ fast T=] pourne yiion Billingsley, the ex-
formation being checkmated by the | prederi ksburg High School star,
Kitten single wing. Both teams spearheads a potent Spider aerial
played well, but neither one got] attack. The Richmond line is lead.
near the double stripe by such stalwarts as the afore-
Owls Score First mentioned Zizak, Don Bermont,
The Kittens received in the Jand the 220-pound mammoth cen-
second frame, but fumbled on an|ter, Billy Darrah. A loss to the
early play and the Owls went] Richmond roster is Vernon Mor-
across in five plays. Their drive }gan, declared ineligible last week
was featured by quarterback Dave [by the Southern Conference Execu-
Foreman’s 40-yard run. In three] tive Committee Evidence of the
plays, halfbacks Al. Clark— and [ Spiders’ offense might can be wit-
“Goat” Davis carried. the ball [ness by last week's tussle with the
across from. the fifteen. Thesgt- | University of Virginia's undefeated
tempted conversion was wide, leav- | Cavaliers. The Spiders rolled up
ine the home team a 6-0 lead, 171 yards via the ground attack,
Twice in? the final period the |and completed 6 out of 11 passes.
Kittens hovered over the geal line, | With a [tthe more tuck, and less
but errant passes lost them the ball |fumbling at crucial stages, the
on the four and five respectively Spider Tight have handed the
| BF in the quarter, the Davidson | Cavalicr eir initial defeat of the
Passing attagk cot hot, featuring | scasou
several spectacular catches by Morale Boosted
wingback, Wood Leach, The pay Davidson will go inte the game
off came on Welton’s pass ovel | wiih pirit of determination
center to Leach in the end zone fand VMI, tie has done
Pete Brown's kick was good and |much to boost Wildcat rale, and
ame ended shortly with the ]fans can expect a fighting team
Jayvces on top, 7-6, fo be present against Richmond.
Performed Well Aided by Cliff’ Turner's dazzling
In the Kitten backfield tailback potamiper. aad t issive line work
Johnny Kelton and fullback Mur Pe the Cat Davidso wed to
ray Ashman stood out with Wood [its best advantage’ in Saturday's
leach performing well as a piss | arne with the “Flying Squadron.”
receiver. End Dob Kester played Whe “ne play” ¢ ially was ter-
a good line game until a knee in [Vifie as the big fi born, Mapes,
jury pulled him out of the game ]tniektin, Rhodes re-
Andy Horne also looked good in | peatedly nme te oncoming
the forward wall, V.M.I tide. V.MUT. ripped off hugé
Dave Foreman, “Goat” Davis chun of the Cat time and
and ‘Al Clark, all former Central | Me again, until they reached ae
luminaries, proved to be fast and Shadows Oe the Wilicat goal line,
shiity in the Owl backfield. picks fli Gate scant to Brace aid
Friday aiternoon, the Kittens ee i ae 7 me peek
meet Blue Ridge on the home :
7‘ : reas ‘ action, ,and t injury of Buddy
field, seeking their fourth victory lvantiite a treree ented tne Ars
Ha ENO EE cat forward wall will be raring’ to
—— (D) ——_——_— aC :
INTERFRAT STANDINGS inh fi time sa wanIStenraior
Kappa Sigs ------ 6 0 1.000 Opposition the Cats running attack
Betas ---- 6 1 857 ; 4
SopiR 5 2 NS blossomed out in mid-season form,
PirKappe 2 4 2 666 | Playing the W&L Generals, W&M
PiGann ee 4 2 666 | Indians and State Wolfpack. the
}th OY Ty) aes 3 2 G00 Cats could not ‘Seen-to muster any
Pei N Se ee 3 4 428 |S"! dained offensive-punch. How-
So) So a oe 3 5 315 (Continued on Page Five)
Independents ---. 2 6 .280|——=
PikaSioecat se ea 1 5 167
geese sso |Kaul & Crymes, Inc.
———— ’
The world craves peace that °
passeth all misunderstanding. Sporting
Counting time is not so important
as making time—J. J. Walker. ff
Conscience is an inner voice that Goods
warns -— someone is looking. —
erecta ee ema 415 S. TRYON STREET
ee aa fox’s cunning, his CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Wildcats sent a
crowd away from Richardson Field Saturday with all smiles.
Coach Bill Story’s warriors fought back twice to vain a 14-14
tie with a heavily favored VMI eleven. The he retofore untried
veteran Buck Williams

——

large homecoming

brought the crowd to its
collective feet twice as he split the
uprights to hold the ‘Cats in the
game.

The Keydets ¢ first blood
five minutes after the opening
kick-off. After an exchange of
punts, halfback Vince Ragunas
shook off tackle for £4 yards to set

up the initial scos de did it him-

self just ‘two minutes later by

crashing over-from two vards out.
Cats Get Back

The first play after the-kickoff,

Story sent in int Sheppard who

snagged a pass across scrimmage

frem—Him—Sittord—amndt—ontdisranced

the visitor's secondary for 55 yards
and the tally. Williams sent his
first extra point through and the
‘Cats were back in the game.

red over seven
quarter,
marched back
drive

line

The Virginians pus!
the
again

more points in third
but the Cats
to knot the
started on the 25-yard
and ended with Erwin bulling
his way across from the four, Buck
Wililams, Bert Anderton, and Cliff
Turner led the drive which was the
first which has
materialized for the Cats this year
against a formidable opponent.
Close Decision
supporters

count. The
locals’
Mac

drive

sustained

Cat

“we wuz robbed”

were yelling
late the third
quarter when Bob Sharpe blocked
what without a doubt was a lateral
and Buddy Cheek recovered on the
Keydet 23. the
ruled it as an incomplete forward
pass and the Flying Squadron re-
this the

in

However, referee

tained possession. Mut for

outcome may have been somewhat
different.
The Virginian’s posted a com-

manding lead in statistics by rolling
up 16 first downs to Davidson's 10
and piling up over 300 yards from
scrimmage while the Cats netted
slightly over 100, The passing game
was also VMI's, 110 to 85.
Line Play Sharp
The Red and Black line
definitely the difference in the two
teams. Twice the forward wall rose
up in the second quarter to stop
drives inside the five-yard stripe.
Big Carl Eborn led the attack that
held the celebrated Bobby
Thomason from completing many
that
wise completed

was

aerials he might have other-

(D)
Davidson Runners
Trounce Clemson

country team

Davidson’

was victorious by a wide margin
of 16-51 over Clentson Saturday, in
what nearly prove tOmeeDGaaea
“skunk.” Grey, Grul Bradley, and
McKeithen of Davidson tied for
first honors in the t mile jaunt
with a time of 17:42. Boyd crossed
first for “Clemson a time of
17:37.

The following at he time and
placings in Satur meet:

(1) G

(2) Gru

(3) B i

(4)McKeithen (9), 17:32.

(Deetenael (Geo), VARY)

(6) Montgomery ( 17:45

(7) Long (BD); 18:17

(8) Plonk (D) =

(9) Smith (D),,

(lO Cornette (C

Ciiletice (ee);

Davidson meets rt Bragg Sat-
November 8, at 11 p. m. The
will the Con-
Roady iree four
and firtishing in front of
Stadium,

urday,

meet take place on

cord starting tl or
miles out

Richardson

Inquire of your local Trail-
ways Ageut of our attractive

service.

(Oe

Queen City
Trailways

417 W. 5th St.
Charlotte, N. C.

