Friday October.17, 1947

PATTERNS FOR CONQUEST

By PROF. JAMES F, PINKNEY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

«« ROAMING WITH RONNY

By RONNY DIETRICK

Page Three

‘Y’ CORNER

By BILL McLEAN

In talking to a lot of boys around
the campus I find that there are

BUNCH FUNERAL HOME
Ambulance Service

Mooresville, N. C.

ach day our newspapers, maga- | that what he said about the United

bring to our | States was untrue. On the other

zines and speakers Before I roam very far afield in jam

notice charges and counter-charges
about intended conquest by

hand there are many Americans

the | and groups of Americans who seem

United States or by Russia. The|to feel that there is truth in his

Russians charge that the U. S. is

bent upon an imperialistic and

capitalistic program to conquer and
dominate the world. Our officials
and many of our leading speakers
and writers charge that Russia is

now openly launched

upon a pro-|no time in retreating from our] with the system under which w2 At any rate, as long as we have Phi n tere
gram to conquer and “communize,” | present position which position, in | operate. Sarttinweel will try to got to have a purpose we might | pla q up
in the Russian sense, the world. The |my opinion, will lead to war, as-| give you a brief outliné of where | 2% well have a decent one. To start | wl is un
battle of words alone has passed | suming that Russia is on a de-]our money comes from and just with the Athy ehed te of this column | awa ‘
the point which in almost any other | termined course, as she appears tO} how it is spent. will NOt be intentionally educative, | intrud G print
lime in history would have brought | be. If there is no truth in what The YMCA here at Davidson moral, AHS Ch helpful hi ’
an open declaration” of war be-| Vishinsky and his colleagues are operates tinder two aeparate budg- column will not contain any ma-|t ed
tween the two nations, saying, and ‘again assuming that} oo. which are in no wig | Bats terial which someotie thinks is Ney a
Phis discussion must start from | Russia is on a determined course,| nected, First of all we have the}; (CLE vielt) eta es theta

the established fact that a danger-

assertions that the U. S. is seek-
ing to dominate the world, and
that Russia seeks peace.

If those who accept the Russian
version of American motives and
actions are right we should waste

as she appears to be, then we

a lot of the students who do not
understand the financial program of
our YMCA. This is only natural,
for I do not believe that the proper
stress has been placed on_ this
phase of our work, and only a few
who are directly connected with
the “Y" and its program, such as
the members of the cabinet and
the board of control, are familiar

YMCA fund which is controlled di-

this column kets take one week of!
and see what this
about anyway.
This column has a purpose |
does not have a purpose of its own,
but it has one because all coluinn
have purposes. Nobody seems to
know why columns have to have
Purposes—they just have

whole thing 1s

them

It will not contain anything that

writ-

teel that

ous conflict. exists between the | should waste no time in preparing | pectiys by! ‘the-Boatd!-of- Control, you will not get along just as well yo) ent

United States and Russia. | per- | for a military showdown with Sta- athe money Ruoblanedarromerwo without reading. ‘ ; eo

sonally believe that it is also an |lin and his government. By such a] ources—a ‘donation from the col- On the other hand, this column ae

established fact that “appeasement” |showdown I do not necessarily jeve (plus accertaineamounenicn will contain sketches of historical | 0"

of Russia is not the manner in }mean war; a show of military }j. jalken Gut ofethe. campus: fund) incidents and historical descriptions | ult part

which this conflict ean be resolved | strength sufficient to convince the} Prom this sum all of the “running of buildings here at Davidson. |

but on this point there is a dif-| Russians that an attack on’ the | a.nenses’’ eye yee 2 : :

ference of opinion within this coun- Cited States.or further expansion ers svekp Bi “AE HEEB My

try. At any rate it is-obvious that | by sib into” at eres (and we are planning toreplace Cinema Comments rear

the issue of the day, and possibly | could never succeed, mig it SUTNCe Pap wpeoiay ac s 4 st ft

the most serious issue pet: con- | to afford us, security and to keep fiecc attics aia Une By WALTER MANN Get out in front! Stay there in Jogs: Hep-
front the United States, is what | the peace. We are presently for the Y, secretary's “salary, etc, ce style, colorful Sandy Bukhide with rubber

to do about the conflict. Shall we | launched on a showdown policy al- The other half of our program Monday. and—Taceday : soles. Heel to toe roomy carefree comfort.

hold firmly to a position that Rus- | though it does not appear that we |i. operated under ‘the Vespers | :

via shall not take one more foot of | are implementing that policy to the} Fung, It is kept in an’ entirely October 20 and 21 ; : oe |

territory, or shall we entirely with- | extent MELEE ERY to make it com- separate account from the YMCA “GUNFIGHTERS” | eee MARION DAVIS CO.

draw our strength at every point | pletely effective. In other words fund and is supported solely by This picture instead of being an ye go's

Where it conflicts with Russia? | we are not mobilizing either in the your contributions al veaperss At dapsone: fa A Naan: goes js i 118 S. Tryon St.

There are responsible Americans | military or in the broad: sense of ‘le first of each year a committee and it is a “horse-opera” in the |" i it CHARLOTTE, N. C.

today to be found at both extremes. | that word, from the Y cabinet draws up a Strictest sense of the word Not| : ‘ ‘|

here are those who advocate war Let us consider then whether We |) eneyolence budget, and this budget only is it concerned with horse ; ‘ ace | .
today and there are those who be- | are right or Russia is right or per-]j. passed .upon by both the cabi- | but also with men, wild men of the if Se .

lieve that our present position is| haps a better way, whether our in-| jet and the board of control, Then | Wild west. There are also soni ‘ aU te | | Eee

wrong and that Russia's apparent | tentions are peaceful and Russia's throughout the year money from [women concerned. Were it not for = YATES |- —- — Seeman et

appetite fo térritory and influence | are not, or vice-versa, or whether} i. vespers collection is distributed | guns, however, there could be 10 aay 4

will be satiated before she reaches | we are both peacefully inclined, At : reas PEO

our shores, General press reaction

to Vishinsky’s recent speeches be-

the U.N.

tore

Was to thes effect

this the existing situation
forces me to reject this third possi-

bility. The United States as a na-

point

tion should, however, immediately
make up its mind as between the
first two and act accordingly, Pur-

to the récipients as planned by the
budget committee. The final budget
for this year has not been com-
pleted, but to give you some idea
as to how your contributions will
be used this year 1 will name a few

picture of this type. In fact ther
are guns and riding
around all over the plains (filmed
in beautiful cinecolor),
Having seen some of the

SONS-Ol-wuns

Thiet
recent cinema productions, it seem
that a

Wednesday

and

and

Thursday |

> | GIBSON’S ICE CREAM STORE

>

Hive Your Friends Meet At

: F meus ”

: ,  Jof the causes that were contributed plot is not absolutels DELUSION |
Beene cs neeaent eh hs which 18 Teg jast year from our vespers col-| necessary for a motion picture nT to de-| Curb Service
vigorous diplomatically but weak lections. Money was sent to aid a However, Columbia Studios was | tuck irked : «

militarily may lead to disaster.
Perhaps at this point it would
be well to add a word about an-
other alternative have. I
refer to the position taken by many
that war is by far the worst thing
that could happen to us and that
we should let conte whattmay.-Con-
ceding that we lack the adjectives
adequately to describe the horrors

that we

Korean student who was studying
for the ministry, we made con-
tributions to Barium Springs Or-
phanage, Mecklenburg Sanitorium,
Presbyterian Home for the Aged,
World Student Service Fund,
American Bible Society (for Bibles
to Japan), and many other worthy,
Christian causes.

‘ y ; As I mentioned in the above
of war and particularly atomic paragraph, we have not completed
war, I do not concede that there the benevolence budget for the
are not worse things. IT reject,

therefore, the proposition that we

should let the victory go to Rus-

sia by default rather than risk war.
(Continued on Page Five)

9, ORMENTAL

‘ © RESTAURANT

BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
CHARLOTTE, N, C.
PHONE 2-2238

Smiley :
(Is HER name on The Davidsonian
Mailing List?)

coming year; and even though we
will, in all probability, retain some
of the items from last year’s budg-
et, we are still looking for addi-
tional causes in the Christian field
which we might aid with a share
of our -vespers money. So if you
have any ideas, please drop by and
see me, for it is your “Y” and your
money; and with your suggestions
we might be able to serve Christ
in a greater capacity then before.

(D)

Queens Open
House

By WALTER MANN

Approximately half of the David-
son student body, nothing daunted
by the dampness at the Wofford
football game, repaired after the
fray to the dark halls of Queens
College. Since Davidson students
are a very sane and logical group
of young men, there was of course
a very good reason for this mass
infiltration of enemy territory. At
one of he chapel services the the
preceding week, Mr. Hugh Hill,
with a wicked sneer replacing his
ordinarily radiant smile, had an-
nounced, “There will be an open
house-at Queens College after the
Wofford Game Saturday night.”

Davidson men are, of course, al-
ways happy when some national
holiday or other; similar event
causes the warden of Q. C. to turn
off the fifty thousand volts run-

Needless to say the game was
scarcely over when the men began
to pour through the portals of dear
old Queens. Gay lights were beam-
ing everywhere, an orchestra was
playing, and as a man. stepped
through the door he was met by
a beautiful hostess, who immediate-
ly introduced him to one of the
waiting visions of delight. After an

(Continued on Page Six)

able to afford one for this western
A gunfighter (played by Randolph
Scott) decides that he has been a

are all yours.

gunfighter long enough and that |

Air

You probably know a number of men in your
class who were pilots in the wartime

to their stature and poise that they couldn't have
gotten anywhere else. 4

Cadet life today is no different.. As a-potential
pilot in the new U.S. Air Force, you serve at a time
of equal importance to the nation. Freedom,
responsibility, the chance to use your own initiative

The training you get is the finest your govern-
ment can provide — $35,000 worth for every Cadet,

lrorcee.

lil |) go0 i. MOREHEAD STREET CHARLOTTE, N. C.

You're taught by skilled instructors, fly the best
airplanes. Your living facilities are excellent.

“T ALWAYS ning through the fence surround- They are the best advertisements tor the Aviation Learning to fly today opens ‘profitable fields to
RE THE ing: the ite ae ae is thie Cadet program. Talk with them about it. you in aviation — which is expanding more rapidly
AD rare privilege granted on these oc- aes : : Sy Ra bal y eons ene nepor ayes
casions, but the search lights : Chances are, they’ll tell you their service as phan at any other time in history.
DAVIDSONIAN— which are constantly moving over pilots was one of the most interesting and gxciting Pilot training is open, now, to single men, 20 to
the premises can bring no harm phases of their lives. Fast action. comradeship, 2614 years old, who have completed at least one-
orp since the tommy-guns of the guards and the chance to serve their country paid them half the eredits for a degree from an accredited
are loaded with blanks on these Ath : Sepa Jayalebevél “hing : Sores si :
i my dividends they don’t forget . added something college or university —or pass an equivalent ex-
SATISFIES’ ’ | nights.

amination. Cadets completing the
commissioned Second Lieutenants, ORC, and as-
signed to active duty as pilots with the Air Force.
During their tours of duty they will be given a
chance to qualify for Regular Air Force Commis-
sions. This is your opportunity! Look into it today
at your nearest U.S. Army and Air Force Recruit-
ing Station.

U. S. ARMY AND AJR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE

course will be
