PAGE TWO °

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

a

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

wn ee wn en nn nanan EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

MAC HART
JOHN McNAIR

BUSINESS MGR.]

—_

EDITORIALS.

t

built on intangible qulities—-character, per

sonal integrity, mutual respeet.

Maybe this is just one more item we are
making more over. than the situation re-

THE DAVIDSONIAN

| -
“

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents
LETTERS

LONNIE

Several weeks azo on this page

FEATURES
From the Editors

TURNIPSEED

Friday, December 3, 1948

n

.

they were printed in preceding is-

. quires. Maybe if we forset all about this . 9 9 “e
EDITORIAL STAFF uw e y . : . ~ned. tl we printed a very indignant letter | sues. Those of you who feel that
thing and act like nothing happened, the you have cause for complaint should

Associate Editor
-. Associate Editor
Associate Editor
_. Sports Editor

Stan Kennett
Bill Calhoun --
Ronnie Dietrick -
Jack Hazard -

ob Hollister
Lonnie. Turnipseed

Managing Editor
Managing Editor
--. Managing Editor
. Staff Photogtapher
a--+-, -Cartoonist

Bill Kin
g TPSUZCat Editor

Charlie Reid

John Hobart -
Jim Murray.

an Make-up Editor

Make-wp-liditor

Managing -Editor.

Stud will open-up again in a week or so and
thet ll be all there is to it. Perhaps that's
true, buf don't vou-believe we ought to
seize this opportunity to reaffirm our faith
in ourselves and each other. Hf there weren’t
anvone but ourselves involved it might.
an entirely different matter, but there’s go-
ing to be as many Davidson men after us as
rthére Have been before, aid cam we yun the

be

SIGMA CHI
Over the past week end, as many
Sigs headed for home, others con-

signed by several men in the stu-
dent body complaining because their
fraternity column bad not bean
printed in the Davidsonion and that
several others had been printed ra-
ther frequently. At tliat tine we
felt that there was no need in an-
swering this letter because we felt
that we might be in errqmenlithough
we did not think so.-

At this time, however 7 wanld

and even Dave McConnell subdued
his jitterbugs ing
Andy Nirkpatrick, alias Sid Var-

instinets.

first check and see that the colunin
has been submitted:

luis true that qu many occasions
we cannot print all of the columns
and in such a case we try to make
allowance for this by printing the
omitted columns the next week and
alterhating each week until we do
have room for all those submitted.
Also in cases where we don't have
too much room, we try to limit the

FEATURE REPORTERS: UVhil Mitchell, Hartley | risk of presenting them ‘with anything less [soled themselves with some amusing ney, was given a tremendous send- lke na pom ont to ne sundent body Novi st the eluvane as

Hall, Gabe Lowe, Neil leach, Jimmie Hebritzy.! than the men before us left our present Stur diversions nearer the campus. News olf to the Carolina Virginia Bane * a wae ack voxnral tte 1 Md like tos ; 1

Henry Hansen, Bete Nalogridis, Drew Gurley, Bill fram those who journeyed far afield [ly Smiley Childers. Gandar, and general. Every week seviral stu = shoul ike to suggest that eacly
Sareent, Bob Grabe. Jimmy Fickcisen, Dill Hollister.] dent Body. concerns such rotafors as Rapid | others. The boys staged an inspir- | dents come to Me or samic other Fraternity submit a column — each
REPORTERS—Randy Taylor, Bill DuBose, War- We face a serious erisis. 1s up to the men | Ronnie Dittrick, who, with Senator fing pep rally at the Charlotte de- wnentber 6M Tie statf and ask why] week until we find out how many

ren Sims, Ralph Robinson, Tom Affen, Dick Barn-
well, Bill McCrary, Vom Mann, Bill Cumméng, Phil
Libby, Ben Drymon, Dadley Pendleton, Nat Daniel,
Dick Chandley, Roo Northeitt, Stuart Shippey, Hugh

here now to say ves or no to the question. :
“Is the Honor System anything more than
a name?

Richard as his traveling conipanion,
traveled to Blacksburg. : Va. After
viewing the. VIMLL-V.ILL game he

their fraternity column was not in
the last. week paper. Most of the
time the answer is because it was
not submitted. Inthe past few weeks

pat, and even had an old Carolina
alumaus joining in a chorus of
“Hark the Sound.”

we can Fin each week and thereby
work outa schedule for the columu
writers, In the past few weeks we
haven't had enough columns sub-

© Huffaker, Bill Neal, tlarper-Newbold, Jim Blackburn, observed in admiration that Lobby , Jim Gunn, after three weeks of . Sane re : atunue ff
Jack Pierce, Harry Shirley, Bob Hubbell, Angus Me- “Many have sugested operating the Stud {Thomason could make passest al-| wonderin’ what tad become of Sally, ony three ol ‘oun at the draternity mitted, ‘e aways fit the alone
Ce ack Peirce, Sla eC ck vc Ke . . ' : Mos swellas lor Nog | - on a Te) s have been submitted, and } space, much less to require a week-
Kellar, tack Ucinee, Slats. Mcclintock, Hoye Kendall. | ayy, naw on on a closed counter, basis, | most as well as Fern, We also have | ad reason ior profound Thanksgiv. | SONMNS Tawe Been sub my apace . |

Lamar Hinson, J2d Richardson,

Others have recommended going back to the.

reports eoncerning t.ustful Jolin

. A consequently all of these have-been
ing, afler recetving a letter af some °

ly schedule for the columns to be

SPORTS STAFF—Cherry Stribling, Gordon Scott. , Kelton, who enjoyed his trip to] ridienlous lengta sealed in, of all printed, irregardless of the fact that printed.

Furman Warlick, Watt Jeiiries, Hill White, Phit Ham-] prewar systent of complete student control Fredericksburg where he visited | things. a huge manila envelope

Hone, Bran yRebiuson,. Van Jack Stevenson of the Stud, An the final analysis HW odoeswt Jiwo Vetta |.ambdas who are sul) Thought 1 had better mention that Paging The Professors
, ‘ , : mike any difference how ifs mm. What | with us in spirie ii not in person. | sinee-George will probably he look-

POLL CAT_STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higgin-
bothan, Jim Ejisher, Parks Datton. Jim Brown, and
Neal Underdown.

matters is have we.as a group, got what il
takes to eapitalize on our geod fortune in
being where we are and dotag what we are,

Assistant Business Manager Wy So MeSwain
ween ee nee 2. Wyhe Smith
Bill, Houck
Ail, Cassels

Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager -
Asst. Circulation Manager --

Asst. Advertising Manager -.... Charles Clinkscales/ jjou, That one person is each mnember of the va for ‘after the usual question. ories of Thanksgiving turkeys, foot- Joe Martin who] You've probably
Asst. Advertising Manaver -. .-. Hector Mckeithan| ste . W here?" each car always -spel] pail games, and other even more helped the iresh-} heard this — or
Assistant Advertising Manager-.--David McConnell] Student Body, individaaily, Then if every- | on. On his return to the monastery enjoyable thonghis. Brother “Harm- men — strugele| knew it already,

Collections Manager -_. -~- Charles Dockery

Phillips. -Parks -Dallun--Cecil_khodes, Ansley Moses,
Joe H. Miller, Neill Underdown, “Tommy Faller,
John Hardin, Thad Monroe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben
Morris, Cam Faison, V'aul Guthry,

selves. at the snine tine. Not but one person
can give the correet answer to that ques-

Letter to Editor

Rurly Beck and Cookie,Craver, Per-
haps one of Heck’s Closest relations
provided incentive for
Jolin’s visit. Ears Jackson was. gen-

also some

-fraternity--brothers ints -erhantr

efforts to chamb a nde to Drake's
- ¢.
Branch. sut his attempts were in

Dear Editor :

‘Cainpus was Te Caesar. laekSon,

who has apparently up all
hope. for.-\Wadeshora,.—T wo-bit—is

given

ing for younger brother Jim's name
in print this week end.

PROF. JOSEPH E. MARTIN
“Joe Martin: Sure, | know him

spoken by a member of the present
senior.class, Unusual taough it may
seem, the same

wandering (his are slowly retorn-
ing to the halls, sacred to scholar-
ship with nangitt but the fond mem-

Yo especially a certain only difference

By NETL LEACH

PROF. BERNARD H. BOYD

There's a Bible professor named

BUSINESS STAFF : Bene PHI DELTA THETA well, Fle was the freshman advisor | Boyd on the faculty who dresses
. ~ a withont ehildishty and stupidiy hurting onr- crously assisted by several of his} a. his eotunn oes to press the| to our class. These words were{ very neatly and who is declared to”

be able to recite cach of his students’
names on the second day. he has
them in class.

Subscriptions Manager --. . .----- John Foitin{ body wants the same thing, its onrs the best ee eee ee ee ful” Jint Spoon spent what is reputed through, theief but did you
ASSISTANTS — Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall} paper. the finest stud. the most effeetive a Hamilton to conceal his where- to have been a cuiettime in his har ds hips inf~ know that this?
' > Harold _ Houten 1 see ve former hamnetawn of Lexington. 1945, now) same person
dames, Duval Hunter, Bob I: ewin, Bill Fharr, E Vavlor, honor system, the greatest spirit! spouts while he was absent fron) Other ‘sources wonld dead us to teaches some of| nained Boyd $
Gene Jackson, ; ° i a orscrace neo |! _| believe that the local population them math, As{ dressed not too
“GIRCULATION SiNP= es Gale, Foy fmm he, geqeasube of h ot ogoehS oc h he a thes in Nay

chaplain’s__uni-

in the Joe then and now is the ad-
dition of Prof. before tis name.
This is Prof Martinis first Year

Fyoung and amarous iemale who is
to date.’ sull anonyinons. “Harm.
less. not-to be outdone by the deal-

form waded into the shell-pocketed
shore of Okinawa just behind the
initial attack way back in 1945. Ele

Perhaps this is a little late, but T would also ficding himself ontracized by } ings of nis brother, spent the tel at Davidson as a imenther or ihe was right there with the Marines

Entered as necond-clase matter at the Post Office et like ; ratulate Bill Seruges and the his brothers beeanse he has been | days in the mountains of the Voalf math department. te was in’ this, until this island was talfen.
Davidson, North Carolina, under thé art of March $, 1897. ike to congratulate . embarrassing them by his uncouth! Mine Stae. We reports that his} subject dat he majored while study-1 -From the day he entered the
: . members of this vear’s Pan Lteitenie Coun- | manners at public occasions. Many | youtteer brother, “Harmed.” is fol-| ing here. Yes. study is the werd, { Navy as a chaplain in 1943 until

SUBSCRIIMTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

cil on the commendable job they dtd on the
Homecoming dances, From all appearances
there was a big turn ant, and the dances

Ltainment,

of the brothers, in search of cnter-
ventured to Charlotic
Wednesday night. Aiter various es-

lowing. in the steps of his dhuistrious
brothers as an exceptional glue fin-
gered ond. When last seen Brother

for this got hima Phi Beta Kappa
key. He was algo a member of the
Sizma Pi Sigma, physics fraternity,

he was released, Prof. Poyd served
with the Marines, first at the air
base in Santa Ana, Calif, and later.

oo REPREOENTES LOR _Nasouse 7 ovenricing Oy capades, including the tragic frus-| tforn was headed, too, Tar the hills | Joe Martin i : Pacific Theater .
National Advertising Service, Inc were not only good ones they also sue- fy tinn of The Mavi Lave’ Stew . 8 Hidw't spend all his} in the Pacific Theater. After the
a ilese Publishers R wv . hievi hei " ration ob rhe Man ¢ Lave™ Stew-} but has not as. yet returned. We] time with the books. His leadership | Okmawa campaign he. went to
Ce blishers Representasive * : ing , ypose, namely, fart’s eff 5 roy femini . . Me CeoL! cag . : | wd. , -
420 Macison Ave New YORKN. Y. ceeded in ac Neving then purpose, na "ys art's effarts to pursue two feminine stispect that the Geek” spent too, was readily recognized by ODK | Guan_and from there to Japan soon
CHICAGO » BOSTON - Los ANGELES + SAN PRANciECO to make a profit for bigger hands to follow. | objectives by their escape into a] much of his time at the “Rox”. Bro-fand he was madé a member, —He-} alter it\ collapse.
‘ 7 i 2 rs US cs * cos —— pe, .
There are, however, one or two questions oun into pie he was maple toy thers Bowen, Lambeth, Cook and] stuck with the hard and non- -paying Wut Pr. Royd is note popular
ollow and the gazing ler , anta. Cy - . :
1948 Member” 1949 T would like to have clarified with respect od Dead & go opher |) Tlubbell yourneyed to Athunta, Ga. | job of circulation manager of ThE! professor because of his werk with
_ - slic : Y

Associated Collegiate Press ©
Distributor of
Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY.
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMRANY

It’s Up to You

through portholes at |

to the two sets of danees coming up. The
Student Body has voted to have our big band
in the Spring because of weather facturs and
the availability of the Armory. On that point
1 am content. Bul what is the decision on
the Mid-Winter's oretestrva ? The latest word
received was that it will be in the price field

the Ship Ahoy, all of the brothers [Georgia -

and pledges met at a famous place
of entertainment. After what they
saw, Patu Best and Jim Blackburn
are petitioning the facalty to install
a course in art appreciation David-
son and Keefer Brooks is still try-

ing to discover what happened to| did not watch the game. Irom tree

the cat or

_When_quizzed_about_tye-Genrgia-
Fech game. “Gubltes ex-
wlained that he didn't go but stayed
home with his mother . it- most
noble gesture had it not been for the
fact that @ certain young lady call
ed Joan alsa stayed home with his:

mother, Tie Al informs us Ghat he

DAVIDSON IAN -one-yveas

With a pericet paysical build for
track, foe Martin casily made the
freshinan, track team in 1010, He
ran well that year, but due toa foot
injury was forced to give up track
the next year, Ile still has special
interest in sports. loc is now trying
his best to break 100 on an 18- hole

the Mavines;7

: it is Because of his
keniality with his students who can
actually feel his interest in’ them.
When a student comes to him with
i complaint of any sort, he finds
Nt merely a professor, but a real
Triend, That means a lot ta any stu-
dent. Atl who have come in gon
tact with Prof. Boyd in this capa-

sinilar to, that. of Bitly luauff’s.

—_It is my understanding that the 55) per

Ked Calhoun,
Ilamilton and Whittker spent their

Mufitans

tops as planned. \ good guess would
be that he was seen in the company

‘course in his bexinning months of

vity, have Rrown lo appreciate the
voll. That's a pame hich certainly

quality of his: friendship.

A great many students as well as friends - evening in a more legitimate place | of a former next door ne ighbor. The | takes the pati ice of a ath pro- Bernard Boyd was born in Mount

P cent system was installed Vast year to ine [or entertainment. Second Class HH. Phis will haye oce:
. . : . A . : i ay i to pass] fessor, Ple
and acquaintances of Davidson were shocked we . 8 ye occasion easant, 5S. C., and atten .
que sure the obtaining of bigger bands. Last | A. Vernor and Fig Newton Journey- } judgment on the particulie iriend ded high

The Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity

school in Charleston, He even re-
flourished under the leadership of

last Sanrday to vead in this paper the re-_ i
mained m-South Carolina for four

port that the management of the Students’

ed..to parts unknown that same! on the coming Week ond. Speaking

~yéar it did just that, bringing us Clande
night’ but—thes were reported tofof the week end we are reninded

Store had found it necessary to close its
doors indefinitely. This past ‘nesday: we
were further shocked to learn exactly why
such a step was necessary. Since that time
most of us have repeatedly asked ourselves,
‘How could this be?”
Two years ago an editorial appeared

THE .DAVIDSONIAN which stated; in ef-
fect, that unless the Student Body mani
ested greater interest in its paper, it could
“not expect 10 continue receiving an “SA”
Classification. At that time there were also
a number of men who were firmly convinced
that such could not be the ease. We had al-
ways had an ‘‘A” paper—we would simply
keep on having one.

Two and a half months agé Seruges and
Upehureh took almust un entire chapel
“period to talk to us about the importance of
having grade ‘“A’’ school spirit arid the
equal impoftance of keeping it at top level

~ throughout the year.

——sports page-anc-in-doing-so-have

- -one serious nistake.-We-have-failed to keep -
constantly in our thoughts an awareness of .

For years Davidson students have glanced
at the first line of an editorial on chapel

éonduct or school spirit and turned with- .

out delay to the fraternity columns or the
een
well justified, as a uhdue proportion of the

material printed on these two subjects alone
within the last twenty years has been un- -
“necessary. But in doing this, we have made

fhe truth, that in order to possess an honor
ystem worthy of its and our name, ‘we must
live it in spirit as well as in form. Anything
as intangible as an honor system must be

|

Thornhill and Ray Kberle. According -to the
facts I have received this year, approximate-

lv 430 -men are “wuaranteed to buy tickets
under this systein (ths is after football
-players and, Pan-Hel representatives have
been taken out.) At $6.50 a head this
afitounts to $3,440.00 per dance or a total
of $10,320.00 for the threa-danees. This sum
is guaranteed the Pan-Hel as a fixed amount
to work with, no matter who they engage
for the three dances. With a student body _
of our size it stands to reason that the id-
ditidnal tickets sold to non-fraternity men

have discussed a plan involving sev-

eral trips to and from Charlotte | his talents with te. ladi

President Joe Martin i in 1945-46. Ale
was-also a strong part of the Pikas’
intra-mural sports teams. _

that Vill Tiiownson will @gain Thaunt

s — this

which Newton has in mind for some | timé. with one “Sister’’ Cobb. This Seven years after Prof. Afartin
future week end. Scaman_KeccuiL} must be love_because_Lroawnsan—ia. penteed Previa -honored—hall

. . . . a s.
Morgan went over to Coneord} even buying his dwn ticket. fin

Vinursday night in search of itor
ous contacts but instead bad te be
content with shooting off firecrack-
ers.

BETA THETA PI
Last week end was a gay one for
the sons_ofL Wooglin. “Vhe event
was the annual fail function, and
from all reports it was a big suc-

he received his B.S. degree, What's
this, it tooksa Phi Beta Rappa man
seven years to. Ggish schogl?, Yes.

it's true, but were's one

Cobb has informed us that he will
be with his friend, the anonymous

telephone operator, if ail poes well.
reason for

As an open” word of advice tol this—a little four-letter word—
“Brassy? Pall Sinith — we would A-R-M-Y |

+ . ‘
suggest that she try Ais luck in It’s-a very familiar but not a

Mount Mourne if the dates in Mon-
roe and Uuntersville- don’t come
through.

pleasing word to this pipe-smoking
professor, You see jhe was au meme

ber of this glorious organization

years of ‘college at. Presbyterian
College. awhile in college he served
president of his freshman an
senior clases and worked as editor
of the school annual. For three years
he made the track team and added
plenty of fire tw she boxing team.
He was, made. a.member. of the col-
lege Jeadership fraternity and his
literary abilitiés won him Sigma
Upsilon membership.

After graduating from P. C., Prof.
oyd left the South and enrolled -
in Vrinceton’ Theological Seminary
just in the midst of the depression.

ap

tis one-fifth of the total’ ‘‘take”") we would

cess, Champ, and
Nair held an open

and guests will run the total Figure a good
bit higher. If these additional tickets did
nothing but pay for the Federal tax, (which

day — afternoon,

Catherine Mc-
house for the

brothers and their dates-on Satur-
followed by
Thanksgiving dinner at the boarding

oe

Now that football.is over many
of the brothers are .beginning to
lapse back into lives of careless di-
}dipation. Ed Sutton and “King
Kong” Sheppard are beginning to
be reminded of their found lives of

for three years. Capt. Joe Martin
went with the boys at the North
African invasion and was with his
infantry outfit “throughout all their
European campaigns, Alter 28
months overseas in the hottest war

Desiring to receive advanced study
in English he entered Princeton
University to do this work.

But a good South Carolinian can't
stay far from home long. In 1936

still have a balance of over $10,000 to be
used in getting our bands. Since sve paid
Knauff $700 for the Homecoming set of
dances, it seems to me very likely that we
ecould_afford two large bands cach_vear

_In the school year 1946-47, we ‘did
operate under the 85 per cent system, and
yet we were able to afford Billy Butterfield
and Dean Hudson. If today, we are able to
secure only one name band. under the 85

-eeht-system; Heinle thirt—ei
centage system should zo or we should begin
to get ‘bigger name bands.

not

___Perhaps there are_other aspects_to_ this—

situation that I have not considered, but it
is apparent-to-me-that-thereis-a-diserepaney
somewhere of which the Student Body i
entitled to an explanation.

Very truly vours,

house. It was one of those meals
you dream about, and-everyone-took
con a litth: more than the maximum
load limit allows. Portly Dave Shep-

their cranes to get hin’ out of his
chair, while Maria.dooked worried
and asked, “Just how fat can one
man ger?” After such a big dinner,
some exercise was in order, so the
whole bunch struggled into formal

Charlotte Woman’s Club to dance to
the sweet and swing of Pilly Kinauff.
It was a perfect setting —, the mu-

persommhad to call on-the.}- AJones
r Constr uction” Co_ to send toa ar

luxury by the constany shrinkage
of their trousers. Sheppard is quot-
edas saying “MIL get back to that
33 inch whist if it kills me before
TM look like Sutton.” Rhea Adams,
probably the biggest dealer of the!
week, is expected to return shortly
to Portsmouth — that makes two
tyipaviw one week, For some iea-

zone. he returned—to - the States
wearing nine battle slars and the
Purple Heart. Is_heine favor of the
draft? You ask him sometime.
a Mrs. Joe FE. Martin is, amv Atlanta
girl, They Were married in her
hometown in 1942. Both are happy
in their new apartment, and are
blessed even more by the, presence

we

soir he has been pricing rooms at] of a iwo-year-old- daughter, “Cam-
the Cardboard-Village. . my” who keeps her parents puess-
We close now with a reminder | ipo as thppectaest

to all Phis and pledges not to foryet
the_parcty inthe Selwyn Hotel’ this
week end. Even “Seedy” Jim) Vann
is expected to atfend, ~~

hasn't been able to keep—her_ still
long enough to teach her Algebra,
but just give him time:

ic—was_romantic_and_the lights
were low. They were so darn low,
-in_fact,that-Lucky Seruggs scent
over and‘asked the janiter to
sure and dance with his date.

Yessir, it was a great, and long-to-

be

be remembered’ evening, and every

=== WILKES MACAULAY;
~~ JOB MILLER.

—

_Dre J. --Shearrer, president —ot-
‘Davidson Colt froin 1888 to 1901,

was* born in Appomattox, County;
Virginia,- in 1832, graduated from
Hampden-Sydney College, the-Uni-.

PI KAPPA PHI
Greetings Gents! 1 trusttthat you
all had a geod week end.
that most of us did, especially thé
“lucky stiffs” who left this wonder-
ful_institution Wednesday evening.

Vm sure

brother had his best Toot forward.
Phil McNeimer wore a coat and tie,

| versity of Virginia, and Union Theo-
logical Seminary.

Seems like “Boom” Barger, “Brain”
(Continued On Page Four)

Prof Boyd went back to Presby-
{erian: College;: this time to teach.
He served as a Bible instructor
there until he went into the Navy
in 1943,

After he was released from the:
service he went to wnion Seminary
and studied until receiy “his Th.
D. degree. Soon afterwa ris, in 1947,
dr. Boyd came to Davidson to add
to the personnel-.of the Bible de-
partment here.

- Boyd, while in the navy, took
aleave-from California in 1944 and_
returned to South Carolina for one
good reason—to marry a certain
S:-G—girl—Miss Thelma Hicklin,

» Dr. Schenck is not the only fish-

erman‘in the Bible department. His”
love for this. great. sport is shared.
by Dr. Boyd, Surf casting and deep-
sea fishing especially fascinate him.
Fle just doesn't find enough time
for euch enjoyment with his college ,
duties and outside speaking: jobs al-.
Ways present.

