PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915
‘FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

THE DAVIDSONIAN ESSERE

lhe D AV] [IDSONI AN Presents
-EDIFORIALS ..; LETTERS— . FEATURES

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1948

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

ENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTIGING BY

cy
National Advertising Service, Inc.

College Publishers Representati
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member 1949
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

19-48

PRINTED BY

DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

From the President

Welcome to Homecoming. In 1923—twenty-
five years ago—Davidson had her first Home-
coming. During this quarter of a century, thou-
sands of Alumni and friends have come again
and again to renew their acquaintance and to get
the healing touch of this blessed spot. To those
of us who live and work at Davidson, Homecom-
ing is a time of great delight and encouragement.
For the students, it is a gala occasion when the
social functions"are at their best, the football game
elicits unusual interest, and many parents and
friends assemble in a joyous reunion.

To this Homecoming, we welcome all who
come to share the occasion with us. It is a unique
celebration. To the ordinary festivities, we have
added the features of the Cornerstone Convoca-
tion. We believe it is a time when there is a stir-
ting in the hearts .of Davidson’s Alumni and
friends all over the country. As we lay ome corner-
stone to a building which we long have needed
and which now promises to grow into a thing of
beauty’ and usefulness, we are thinking of the
laying even more firmly and securely of the
cornerstone of the entire success of Davidson
College as a really great liberal arts institution,
training young men in the essential qualities of
the Christian character.

‘So, to all who are with ws as friends and
guests at this Homecoming season—and we an-
ticipate that number will exceed any previous
year—we extend the traditional friendly hos-
pitality of Davidson and insure everyone of our
heartiest greetings.

—J. R. CUNNINGHAM.

Brave Men

Three or even two years ago, an Eng-
lish professor thumbing through a stack of
freshman themes would have been amazed,
to say the least, to come across such a title as
“On the Birth Jof My Son.” Today the
“Cardboard Village’ is an established and
well-nigh forgotten phase of Davidson life,
Because the boys who live there eat and
study at home, we-don’t-see—as much of
them as_we would like to, and consequently
we don’t hear much about life in the ‘‘vil-
lage.”

However; we take our hats off to any

Witness the laying of} a cornerstone for our

The Gomerstone of future

he laid. The
for two and a half million dollars worth of

new -L2vVapasiiiy

Homecomings will also drive
financial backing for Davidson that is being
lannehed today will determine the spirit of
Homecomings for vears fo come. The suecess
of this drive that is beine started will vo a
long way towards fixing. Davidson's place in
the future

If she vets the money and makes the pro
posed improvements, there is nothine to stop
her from cmaintainine her leading positon
If the

improvements are not made, chances are that

among schools of On trepe and size,

Davidson may drop into a secondary position

and cease to be the object of sueh intense
pride as she is to so many of.our alumni
today.

In addition to the eyninasinm, other
needs that will be met by this new found will
be the building of anew church, a new
dormitory, a stiuclent union, and an iInerease
in the endowment to take-eare of upkeep

on the new buildines

The new chureh has longest been asaon-

Seratfon with the administration. While
the old) chureh claims’ a warm spot of
reverence and love in all our hearts, it. is

neither adequate for thé needs of the con-
gregation nor the prestige of the campus. It
is hoped that a fine new chirch may be built
and placed as a fourth side in the restoration
of the old quadrangle,

A new dormitory is needed, Rumple is
hardly fit to live in and the rooms of the
other dormitories are three.

housing men

Where they were designed for two. Even
when the student body will have been re-
duced in numbers to a mere ace ptable size,
there will be need of more (dormitory. space.
~~ Another

is the erection of a Student Union on the

favorite dream of the college

spot where the old gym qow stands. A union

is needed as a recreational center ‘on the

campus for students, a new home for a pets

ter-equipped—stadent—store, anda suitable
meeting place for our honorary fraternity
gronpm Phi and Bu Halls have just ‘been
done over so that can serve this latter pur-
pose temporarily, but they will
tirely adequate,

not be en-

The student body is already behind the
drive. They realize that they are in- possibly
the best position to know just how much
Davidson needs and deserves the support of
all her friends in the drive. They realize
that, as students, they are the best salesmen
of the drive and they are out to do their part.

It is the hope of the entire college that
two cornerstones have firm
foundations today.

been — given

| lette, Chink Thompson, Lynn Huie, | came out of the game with black
|and’ Joe Whettup in a circle dis-| eyes. Perey Sloan and Yates Faison!
cussing something evidently very | have a personal interest in the floor }
i funny in front of athe Love Nest} show at Club Lido and Revoire does
| last Wednesday at the 3 period. | not sing “Stay Away From My|

London but now that he is in Chi-

cago, she never hears. from him.

loping around on the tenth floor and
Viger Jim Morton slept under a bed

and we're why

Professor Lilly was getting another
degree during his granted
George Sherrod,
Brown, Reeves Pope, George Gul-

leave

of absence,

. and heard that Sid Tomlinson
is the one who had the patience to!
figure how many holes there are in|
the roof of Chambers. There are|
6407312. We won't dispute itl]

Bill}

wondering

ed their badges of membership, but!

Door.” Henry Lyons has got some-
thing there, boy! THis girls picture
is oing to in the
Physical Culture Mz
Branton and Yates |

he

zine. Buddy

‘aison saw 55

Henry Hodgin is certainly a moviggsreasons wiy*boys leave home at the

fiend.
Compassing the Campus.

Ray Richardson, John Allen, Gus |

Maynard, -Ginnie Thompson and

Don Bailey at the circus; there were

lots of others there too, taking in
the sightSaand side shows. Seen in

Charleston on week end of Citadel! Connor are recuperating in the in-}.

same; Bud Okey: returns to old!
haunts, Baxter Moore trying to get)
a late date with Miss Mays. |
[The potency of Box Atwaters |
ippeal revealed in the fact that his |
gal arrived kere Thursday night for!
the weekend. The well known Da-|
vidson bird-cage with Giddie Mun- |
roe, Wimpy Ravenil, Billy Norton}
Peel: Baxter Yar

borough with a red-headed profes

and Guerrant

ors daughter. Midget Verble tak-| the duenna. Bobby Gich, Phil Fri-|

ig an interest in the pro wrestling |
in Charlotte. With |
love than Guerrant has for |
\sheville Butch.
Dick Towill needed one when he

matches more

his |

flame, Yours,
was relieved of his bathrobe in front |
of the Stud Store. Tiger Jim (hel
likes them buxom) with Pidge at|
(Queens checking up on the chick-!

|

ens.
King for a day |
Rea Tenney and Biliy Turner!

from Bankers table to back alleys.
Walter King drinking cleaning fluid
to remove the spots befpre his eyes.
Overheard Pete Marchant say) to
Brest “Your brother Anust
love . . . he’s wearing shoes
and—everything.”” Hayseed Thomas
delayed departure of a bus as he

Greene

be in

entertained very convincingly.

} ter

| gy Beaty!

Voo Wade Barron
between the devil and deep when he

Parlez Parhde

put his girl in car with ex flame! Phere has heen” much shustling |
for that long ride back to Flor- ind bustling down in’ Minerva’s
ence ibode this “past Week. Bie thine
Walter Hector has that sleepy are in the making for the bie Home-
look ‘and Jim Dickson.and Abie O'-| coining week-end. ‘The SAK’s will
end some formidable foes from its

firmary ... and we thought it was owns ranks out to face Riéhmond,|

a quiet week end. And Phyliss the
Speedwind the elevator boy, so- he
could run the elevator.

The Friday night fornial will be
a masked ball and Jim Dorsett is
being persuaded, if there are enough
cash customers, do his famous

Milton

make Gypsy Rose Lee go back to

to
Berle strip act that will
red flannels, buttoned boots and

Lawson late dat-
Gible
date’s measles were just freckles af-
all No Wade
Joggs showing date
Vriday night.
Super Snooping

Hank

berg and Ken

ing legshow. girls.

quarantine,

stadium to

3ahisson deserting the

+arms of Morpheus for those of Peg

Wiley. Waftren Ludlam xreatly im-
by from
atasy while Pacel Cooper made an

pressed striking scene
interesting contact in same thea-
“tre. Bo Go» Kenny dated here Fri-
day night. . . she was married Sat-
urday.. Charlie Smith's skull is do
ing a Gypsy Rose Lee. Joe Shel-
ton finds attempted hand stand on
chair very hard on the bottom,

The Poll-cat

By CHARLIE REID

Other than your own hometown, which city in

the

United States is your favorite?

Students s : Faculty and Adm.
Washington, D, CG. —-__- Aste sg Abe se New. York, N.Y,
Naw svonkoNen tee nd aa New Orleans, La.
Charlotte; Nv Oa CFs Pes er AN Dg a. Atlanta,.Ga.
AtlantaysGarr sca sos Aphemis css asthe Charlotte, N. @.
New Orleans, Ds ae DU ees corse Richmond, Va.
Miami War eae G thee are Washington, Dz. C,

Joe}
Hunter and Jack Vass outstanding,
members of the Nose Club, protect |

December |

Smith's |

Karl Jones ina memor-|
| able-taxi ride to the home of Miss

ran a campaign of precise efficiency

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Reports from the Spider squad are

[that they would not mind a bit if
Brother Mac and Dave frwin,
Carl. Pahl, J. D. Ashmore, Sandy
Carnegie and Buddy | Chandler
would stay out-f sight.

| Jot thing » We are indebted
to Jim Williamson and his beaver
pledges, Price Dallenger, Ey erett
| Blake, and Lamar Hinson for re-
finishing the boarding h wise din-

ing room floor. Brother Bobby Car-

json has many ideas that will go to-

| ward improving the boarding: house

jand the Brothers and ledges are
| ° :
more tham ready to cooperatte with

him. ae

Notes to youse ... Pledge Bruce

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE man who has enoneli rey vd for education 1 - 2
COLLEGE YEAR « ; ; ; ea Pe weil »
to bring a wife and family to coflege with
g pes Tr a } " ‘she us aotnatter al fact, live as
f -.-.-..--.. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF] him. Two cannot, as a matter al ; | : : es :
FOWN SHENASS BUSINESS MGR cheaply as one: there are finaneial diftienl | Now that the political « mpaign) based also on two points. The first
JOH? SENG aie = rarer rea rs cray — ——7 is over, let us look back over the] was a resolution to begin a pro-
Seana ties to be met and solved. Then, too, family te iererrorr ; | jepaiee a
EDITORIAL STAFF life ; ; hinete ene past few heetic months and try 1G | xram of Federal economy; to, re-
- ie ife is ne most conducive fo wood os ay ani Aire ! {fron e aff.| i polisies F i :
Strn Keanatt ghee ia eae Associate Editor + : : eparate the wheat ott th chaft | duce the national debt, and at the
Bill Calhoun —- ereacucs -..- Associate Editor habits; there are undoubtedly. times when On the Democratic side, two points | same time to cut taxes. If the debt
RONnNICMOIGtrithicstanusateccanuass Associate parce the baby is siek and having ar bad-nieht with | stood out’ clearly, whieh Mr. Tru | is to be reduced money must come>
bop Hants Bas Bee uaa Editor reviews coming up the next day. j man strongly advorated. One wa | from somewhere to do_it, and. di-
Bob Hollister - --- oo tear o te oT tte : nae { ‘ : the repeal of the ‘Vaft-Hartley Act,| reet taxes are the greatest source
Lonnie Turnip: - Managing Editor There are other diffienlties involved. ; : : : ; i d
DOUgMHiki _.... Managing Editor : rae Hang Which he attacked vehenrently and] of Federal income. Therefore, if tax-
WICREMOLR an cecsacesetcccednuoses. Managing Editor Day ison, like inost places we seem to hent repeatedly, His attacks brought twol es are to be cut, and vast amounts of
PUOMeNIDIOCK sens aneeenee Stat Enotographier anything about these nn IS not dusting things to the aind of the thint | money are at the same time to be
i fing pine eT ls 2 artoonis ; ' Fi ae | ‘ ;
Bill King aaa : : out witli “apartment-for rent signs. There voter: one,—that—a onty ot hist paid onethe debt, Dewey must plan
Charlie Reid Pott-Cat Editor | i H ates
\ : are not a whole not of positions available in own party in@fongress supported] to cut drastic ally the expendituges
FEATURE REPORTERS Malloy Owen, Randy Soret Rois ; ; eonihaiel the ‘Valt-Hartley Bill on the floor! of the Government in some chan
Taylor, Warren Simms, Phil Mitchell, Hartley Mall,} town for wives who want to work, althoneh Miele and finally voted in! nel
Boyce Kendall, Bob Grube and Warren Sims. the Collewe does its best to make a TETAS oi F earn d r Nt == : ‘
REPORTERS—lJimmy Henritzy, Henry Hansen, 3 ee ee favor of its and second, that Me This would seem to lead- to his
Perry Gregy, Hatry Shurley, Gabe Love, John Sik jobs as possible available Promrat never spe t mention econd promise: to “unsnarl, un-
houn, Ken Jones, Ralph Robinson, Tom ays re In spite of the difficulties, the inhabitants ed any single point in the Act which ravel, and ufangle! the machinery
Barnwel& Ed West, Jim Murray, Tommy oller, : ; ee ; wid ‘ hf, Hh aie :
Bob Hubbell, Bill McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cum-] of onr Davidson married Hedent colony as part | t le to 1) of government in Washington, Col-
ming, Phil Libby, Ben Drymon, gui ay oe seem to be linppy and prospering, We dedi He spe AL : vit Our nintst Prank Rent ‘questions his
py Pendleton, Jim: Fickeison, Pete, Kalogridis, \ ay bothering to t yj attach ead Eo} ‘yi erat ae
Bees, 1 ty + 3 OUNGHIGUCE STAG D DEC RETIB Ib pave si of this issue to them and gies se eerie jalility to decomplish such an her
le Laat ea haces F RAL } 1 | Westar tips ANC UB Ure netask. As Kent points out,
Huffaker, Lewis Hyman, Frank Winston and Bill Jespecialiv to vou who live in the Cardboard Phe other poin CoN ty he WI Hi
} 1, Bill Hollister Nat Daniel ae ‘ ery hewcomer to the ute rouse
Neal, Millage. Ta vou and vours nan advocates ere SNACMMENL Te been-d-termoriier Gent on clean-
paca tran are Cl ae pti ling. naeraatt SHO —, ol Hes mA i) rigehts era ENS IS aut ie corruption and dust of
Furman Warlick, Watt Jeffries, Bill lite, Phil Ham-} — \ probably the most exploive and con: | yy, : P ae
mond, Hryant Robinson, Dan MeKeithan, David Homecomin "A8 HieuAraial “eaiiinini ected rewious administration, and re
Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson. is ; ie a it with men whom he knows
, vy cai Ceae ps come to the fore in oa eulen tin) usts. But with time the very
7 AMacitAnie Tim Carrie Glade iggin- ee ; = ampaig mi ve: Mra Priy_|
BOUIRA, Jim, Fishery Pale Daten ine Browne era} This “xear's” Homecomii, the “twenty LAUNCHING DAVIDSON ANEW / Sian —naay-—hraver *inaamiedted tres {en_Wwhom -he- places~in posts—of
sner, atks € 1iry x ; : =? tha Way ay We irater ) 1 : .
\Neal Underdown fifth for the college, promises to be the big aoe : ae ae is ? a; Be al liority on the basis of their in-
Se La eda Oh an Da Meee et Seether [Ea = Sr Bain the vote of le Negro ras ears ; Saas a ;
TOSt One IN NY tistory to-date ore plan BING aleneetc le Naat GReRten orruptibility be ae iced by
9 i Fe Laee naa | ° as Wr (arco eae LS the fruits of office. And the. Federal
BUSINESS STAFF : ning has gone into the event this vear than ble it forth just to have the jump on], roll that he cuts so~dtastically
Assistant Busin Manager Wiad. McSwain) in a combination of former vears. Matters of era Img I a GS | Wallace, who would certainly haye| oy jae ote ff Reet
Advertising Ma Seas WANE Shatlinl > : < I seveden (Silt tA Sea Aa BS RGTNRLITRUER mon oe eters OLICe begins
Circulation Mat ! Be ANE US hosifed Importance that will be Jooked back om in eon YESTERYEAR presented it a aa f i i ah {Ocgwell With thecnainesvOhhie own
(Croatia Nek I : Bill Cassels] p ‘e vears Will happe lek and fast thi if Jee buccal ae CULTO SLC Otis t spointees, their friends, and. their
Peeks Keer : Manages Charles Clinkscales} future years will happen thick and fast this 1 SAW: Mark Lillard, John Withers, and! whatever his purpose may have Rae eee nee
st. he) i RTC } ‘eel-e : | irae Reieaea : ‘ , +] i relatives
Asst. Adver Manaver -- Hector vepewat wll ; Soup Brannon and Pete Whittle) Warren Gare invaded the W é { ‘| been, the civil issue more ‘. Teta henO rane ie iE,
Assistant Advertising Manacer_----David Me onnell | On the canipus this week-end are more SPR CLR IAG Tecate r as they| Campus last week end where Pete] than. any other one polnt brought Dewey has a record as an efficient
; M Charles Dockery Practicing their sprinting ¢ y| : nd none administrator in the
>tions at ‘ q . ’ pak arate , ; ; % > he s| A 7 and ceono (i: stra
Sabicea ep ae A John Foftin! of Davidson's friends. and alumni than lave ran from Smith's boarding house; MeKnight, leader of the ate | about TPruman’se downfall, [t® split y drat Nat ce Ree HEteE
seriptigt M asa clierp {1 ; ‘ “d “Lit- i 7 state of New York, anc ay be
} assembled here sinee the Centénnial Cele past Chambers to the Phys. Ed,| group, reintroduced the banned “Lit | his party wide open, and envender fel vil iter i :
aris rhe >) 3 > : 33) on Shep ; ie will actuz ac-
ASSISTANTS — Bill Cumming BYU Ear Manat | bration mé6re than ‘ten vears avo. And. as | building. John Richards and Bill! tle Apple.’ Neal SC aviniond | ed ahe Disieerat movement which aon sa adele savas?
James, Duval Hunter, Bob snitonenaeemt oo Harold | : ~ nares : : | Matthews arguing whether John} Pittman, and Joe Calvin to Fayette-| oc the So th to. the Democratic Me Bu thee glittering RLOUUSES: {Of
Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw | always, they are welcome to the Cin pus am GGHITSIG HRSA THIRDS TSTOE RENT RTH RLTUITTE sem Tonte-to plump Ceti it Hart Hegde pe Sadie’ Hime_in| laulinéss and competence in gov-
CIRCULATION STAFF \lex reed tes to whatever facilities not only the adminis using slang in Eu. Hall at a meet-| heavily garbed, due to inclement eighty years. St i on a aia pain he
ins P. ltor cil Rhode \nsley Moses, pad ¥ Cirle otAy ; iA es on ; ye or istaken for ' y . fas made to the people. If he does
ioe te Miller BY it t fi ry ; wn, Tor aie Haller | tration ean provide for them, but also the ing of the literary society. To John’s bled ee a Pease ee These are the two promises that ; ut a Ae mee well Bee:
eee er, el ceraown, AY iy i = Scares > pole s i +-station ; i , ereate as : og: eil-greas-
= ert hac onroe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben | students. great relief, Ed MeNair informed| by plain spoken tilling station atten Truman used-as the basis of his Neisecs
John Hardin | 1 Mon A F
John Fardin, A : : | 5 ‘ : ; if ; seq | dant. : ; ed a machine as he has promised, he
“Morris, Cant fatcons Pantry, | We take this opportunity to add the Stu the society that John had not used ; campaign. In themselves, — they will take’ his place .alongside- the
leodent Body word of weleome to all visitors slang, but a metaphor. Sweeping the Campus Hayould-hardly-havewon-an_clection, stb aT kee i a ae ae
. Wwe ‘ ol (ayy ; ; ; ; pbs ; ; ree : : : creates! atc ae ssidents, and he
aA CO) SOE) a AS a ee EEE i mia : eee Miss Passmore at the library says The Press Convention was-a tre even if the candidate had been a] Or te me su e
Davidson, North Carolina, under the ant.of March) 8, 1897. | Phis Homecoming week-end, known as | that she used to get cards from} mendous success from several view- powerful figure | Will be able to write his own ticket
; | ' : ‘ - ‘ ; | ;
the Cornerstone Convocation, will not only rofessor Lilly when he was in| points. Hoke Robinson was seen) (yy aye Republican side, Dewey] t0 a second, and possibly. even a
SUBSCRIPTION RATES | |

| third term,

hats

they keep it,
Here

1 George

and there Pledges
Neel, and
wonderful
experiences up at
Salem this past week-end. 3rother
| Rod Shaw says that he didn't starve

ever the week-end, but, on the con-

McMurray, Joe

Lamar Hinson

bring

Htales of their

j trary, heeame sa successful bum in
the other -frat's boarding houses.
joaw Brother J’ D. Ashmore gruel-
{ing over the medical exam all day

Saturday,

jports that

Lrother Cam Faison re-

some help will be needed

j down at the house to decorate for
| Homecoming. Brother Meatball
|} Gambrell promises a bigger and

‘

better Serips and Pranks Magazine
| fons this fall, It will feature, by the
| Way, an exceptionally well-written
| esteemed

| Dick Richards. Drother

articls by. our Brother

sill Hogins,
jour representative to the Pan-Hel-
lenic Council, has the dance tickets
jand urges all to get their money in
has soon as possible.

| |

Ballenger is just one j mp away]  Olartling news . , srother Chow-
| fom aliaining -membership in the} down Richert has put the brakes
Sigma Delta Msi Athletic Frater-| 0 his eating says he has a date

inity. If he gets this-honor he will be

| the first in a long time to hold it mn
We sax

Inston Walking

}our Traternity

| John Cod

Brother

the Queen

City streets in his glad rags Hal
jloween Eve. 1 wonder if he found
kwhat che was lookine for? Also

Brother Lane Cloanineet and Clara

Were out spooking> Sure was glad

to see the- foothall back in
the winning column as of last week
when they beat the Phi Gams 24
to 0. Brother “Lightfoot” Crosby
and the “touchdown coordinators,
J.C. Roberts and Monty Hill weré
really on the ball, Everyone's. skill
will be severely’ tested against the
Kappa Sigmas this Monday ‘after-
noon. I think that Bob Miller, Lane
Cloaninger, dnd Bob McGehee will
put up opposition
Sigma’s bargain for, but

team

more than the
the out-
come remains to be seeny New ar-
rangements of tables at fhe Board:
ing house seems to suit the waiters

fine. All the brothers are reminded
that ‘the floor will only be as clean

} for Homecoming and wants to at-
“un those; shallow cheeks like
Brother Cunnie Cunningham has.
We saw “T run it in 10.3” Jenkins
cutting paper dolls the other day—
how has them on his wall,
ronco

Brother
Bailey has turned into a
kang tough guy with a water cooled
| hand machine gun, Also in the gang
Was "Daby ” Face” Chandler, and
“Dillinger” Erwin, I hope you didn’t
miss seeing Georgia Southern Car-
negie in the Foolies Preview. —He
Was great. That's about all this
rat can find to knaw on this week,
but will forward to some
nighty fine cheese this week-end,

SIGMA CHI |

Many of the Sigma Chi brothers
had comparatively mild week-ends
(they were saving their strength
for Homecoming) but an” untiring
minority managed to uphold the
grand traditions* of the rotators.
Among these were ; Speedy

look

(Continued On Page Six)
