THE DAVIDSONIAN

lhe DAVIDSONIAN Presents
EDITORIALS LETTERS FEATURES

Alenda Lux . Operating Table

Page Two Friday, February 6, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

to a head by the announcement that there
will be a special meeting of representatives
of all schools belonging to the Southern Con-

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

; sory ay rie hee What with the universal exam | During a recent gambol in the snow
GAM BRVIN. 2500S ecsiey Editor-in-Chief redatan this nee na discussi By BOB PHILLIPS { : ! : : i
BOR CLINE Business Manager ], ference later this month, Since a discussion 4 i hangover, the departure of rumor-|with his number-one-girl, Will re-

of the N.C.A.A.’s *‘Purity’Code”’ was neatly Recently the Davidson satel be fair play. Those spectators who] mongers Ennett and Oglesby, and | portedly flang a snowy missle and
EDITORIAL STAFF id estepped at the last regular meeting it team traveled to the campus of aj displayed such  unsportsman-like} the chill winds which have blown | struck his lady-love in arrears. She,
si pt }

Bob Phillips
Mac Hart ----

scl tic * itted a erave injus-
‘Spares Buiter. chool | conduct committed a grave injus

large Southern Conference no one good, your dealer-in dirt is}mot sharing the Kannapolis Kid's

seems to be quite reasonable to expect that

Manag » latter's basketball five | tice to the team that was repre- | somewt a loss f aterial ement, returned fire with a
Walter Mann - - Managing Bditor this code will be the chief item on the agenda to meet the latte basket rey somewhat at a loss for material |amusement, returne ire with
Stan Kennett - - Managing ea | ah ink nD fi ‘heads A handful, perhaps f¥ty, of the} senting them, for those of us from] this week. However,” we feel] snowball wrapped ground his  fra-
ie evisu - Wiser dit Ranged! when the loop’s sports m*guls put their heads Davidson student body were able} Davidson who attended the game] obliged to run this column with|ternity pin!
HERPATEALAHK: i _.--- Columnist together. to fight icy highways to follow theit | were unfortunately more fastingly |every issue; for we've finally real- The new white hope of David-
Malloy.Owens ...........-.-.,.-.---.-05 Columpist |» As ies riters aches and. fans team to lend vocal support. The]|impressed by the untoward actions Jized that in the opinion of most of |son College — appears to be
John Stewart -- Staff thas hal BAS UN BDOrw awe. aD cous a < E _ [treatment that — these Davidson ] of the rest of the spectators than]the student body, without the{“POROUS POTTSIE” CAM-
Vloyd McLean er irearT piety bag Ua a have pointed out, the Southern Conference | pooters saw their courageous Red} we were by the expected clean play | “Operating Table’ the DAVID-}]ERON, who has set a new
Feature Reporters: Bob Hollister, Lonnie Jurnit ; i ; Dall : , :
< “e G: i 3 Kendall, | Ubviously is not at present a balanced one. J and Blaék receive at the hands of] of that school’s basketballers, We|SONIAN would be no sheet at}|NCAAAA indoor record with four
seed, Dave Gambrell, Bill DuBose, Bruce A
Bill Bogart, Charles T, Davis, Bob Wells, Art Jen-, , When one checks the makeup and member- | the host student body enraged aj realize that many of our hosts were | all. flushes in three days. On the ad-
Beeman Reporters:: Hartley Hall, Randy Taylot,: “ship of the Southeastern or the Southwest few and disgusted all of them, The] duly embarrassed by their. school- Appropriately enough, heading vice of*a friend, Potts remembered
Warren Sims, Phil “Mitchell, Bill Hollister, Scott] eonference, to use two familiar examples it | Strictly partisan crowd booed| mates’ conduct, but from outward }our list of post-exam limelighters|to tell his “fifth attempt” that
Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank Purnell, Tom’ Flipse, : vociferously any and all decisions | appearances there wasn’t a gentle-|is “HURRICANE” HUGH HII.I.,| Thornhill was playing for the

Larkin, Leonard

Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray, Jim
Hugh Evans,

Boswell, John Cosby, Dave Hayworth,

is immediately apparent that the competing
schools come much closer to being the same

called against them, however ob-
viously justifiable, and just as loud-

man among them. That is a-terrible
indictment, but it is made neverthe-

Who has swept another off her feet
in a whirl of gingerale parties and

dances—she accepted. Mr. Cameron
released the following statement for

Pat McGeachy ; ‘ : ‘ ; ; i ; ayer “ay ; ie Wen
Sports Staff: Jack Hazard, Frank Aldred, Cherry | 81Ze€ than do those in our own league. A brief |iy they roared their approval of| less, primarily to show you how moonlight Flexible Flier rides. | the press : “Tm glad SHORE. orince
Stribling, Watt Jeffries, Bill Cassels, Doug Hix, Bill ®lance at football or basketball schedules and | those called against the Davidson] delicate is the reputation of a col- This latest enchantress, to whom |four girls turned me down; I'll be
SrA BU hl WIE Sesh cial EG GANA scores for the past few seasons will also | team. At one point late in the game, | lege student body, and to emphasize | the Veerless Prexy has apparently mer bails will ae, ee ne
BUSINESS STAFF fy show that the teams in those and other cir- with the score too close for the] the responsibility of each of you] been paying violent lip service, is|regain prestige, Potts, in conjunc-
Va tel t aS se i eG 2 r or : ‘ ‘ ‘ : : ~ re
John MeNair------ ----Assistant Business Mandieciogd? . : a ; hat comfort of the host student body,|in maintaining the name of David-|"eportedly booked for Mid-Win-|tion with crony BILL COLLINS,
Charlie Reid ~-.-- -- Advertising Manager cults are more evenly matched and tha a Davidson player was awarded alson College as a school of gentle-| ters! It seems HUGH had planned has chartered an Eastern Air
Bunigiren = Suni pa Mb Manner they compete against more loop brethren foul shot. As he stepped up to the}men, Don't you or you ever give} '° take ‘the damsel on a test flight | Lines C-54 for a quick jaunt to
z ys x s s a 7 + 7 y . x 5 . . 7 rextr ‘ Serer % (a oN YP pA acre : ‘ See er
GistieesDoskiny. eee Collections Manager| than do Southern Conference teams. We will | foul line, our hosts set up such al cause for our conduct to be, called] the past week-end in Greensboro, | Tallahassee come springtime,
Sane Clinkscales istant aver ne en in most cases admit that there is need for | hue and cry that an official stopped | less than gentlemanly toward a. By ts was completely ne HY LAGCIOLAE GHA) | yall
kes Macauley istant _: SURAT RTT Me ‘reform.’ but we must also realize that we | the proceedings then and there un-| visiting athletic team! otf by the atest cold wave and re students are too secluded was given
H. Fulton - stant Circulation Migr. ; : F was stranded in Davidson City. Sat- | added impetus over the past week-
; Circulation Me one : an ] | til the crowd could show a sem- Teealoeent ke h Patella s yes petus e pas
Bill Keith —_--- stant Circulation Mer.) alone cannot hope to force any other schoo ; Baa t doesn't take much to genera ener ae ee ay ; 1 Hi : KE
*Sandy Sprunt -- stant Circulation Mgr. | “ : ' Ree oN ; _ | blance of decency, Their refusal to] ich shameful displays—just one urday evening. Our chipmunk-ish end in ¢ hapel Hill when JA
Bob Knight __-- istant Subscriptions Mgr.| to conform to rules against its will, If how- do this moved ‘the official to-calt-a a ce ealealls for hous dr the Chief was moaning low when out}"THE RAKE" WADE, while
Charles Beam -.-.---__. Assistant Collections Mut. | ever, we send our representatives to the double technical foul on the host = . of the blue came a phone call at}ogling an extremely well-knitted

Advertising Staff
H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Claude Higginbotham,

esting with a concrete policy we may “be

team! This action finally succeeded

referee or an opposing player, and
the mob spirit take: over, Don't

midnight—it was the enchantress,
calling to share her. loneliness. She

on his overcoat
stomped

coed sweater, put

wrongside outwards and

D, Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene Taylor, W. able to persuade the others that it is time to | in calming the rowdy gathering, you be the one to give such action ; : : : : ve A :
McSwain. - - aie some chances: What-th should our | which could apparently be gentle- Sep ORIN : nad been sledding all night long} out of Woolen Gymnasium.

Paul Gutl Circ ion Staff H er BIS CNS af ne manly only for the sake of €x- eae : : ; on their own little hill—and alone! Most flustered Davidson student
man Sie Hee By Saad svintay, Rowers Ted policy be? pedience : In our humble opinion, that an-! Touching, ain't it? of recent weeks was “SOBER
Bowen, Erwin Clark, Ray Cunningham, Bill Mebane. To begin with, do we wish to remain in Now the purpose of this article ehh who advised | fighting fire tiggest dealer of the dance-week- | WILLIAM” JOYNER, who, up-

» beFIn ; aM , : tee A CHT Ca habe we Cte with fire, would have done im-/end promises to be ‘HONEST |on ordering a bottle of ginger-ale
Daviasch PAGrur GROEK cay the eet ener ers une Sousliern Conierenve? Boule Uae ven fobbed” of to indignantiy call for measurably better with a bucket} JIM” SISKE who is all set.with a] for his party, was presented in ad-

g : i gested that we pull up stakes and seek k ad- ae anolons a the like, Herhans of water. Let's not be children and] one-night date commencing Satur- | dition with five “shot glasses.”
‘ rs : Peete : . {try to “repay” the subject school] day evening at six o'clock sharp.| A “Table” fai 4)
SUBSCRIPTION RATES mission to a cireuit in which the members ie nudeneee Gh tlie hone ceanis ) aS x ot ) s y g at six oc ock sharp \ lable would fail to mcet
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year are less interested in bidding openly for the supporters did not  cnhance our with action in kind, when they} His school-teacher friend has to|]the requirements of a ‘Table’ if
—— A 5 i ; letes : a i : soy. | Visit us in Charlotte. Rather let} correct papers Friday night. our old reliable CHIC LA NEILLE

services of top high and prep school athletes |chances of victory, but whatever - ai ; a : ; : ; : :

: : Bia id i Faerie RH enTS he victors | US “Pour the water” in the form Greatest downfall of the New]|did not appear therein—this week
REPRESENTED FOR RATION AS. COL MLL) ev —Ssay the North State. T his, however, aid it might have lent the vic § f ile 5 Wel an Oppoticnt ate Year has beens suffered —by arst- Ihe he aert sla “a het z did
National Advertising Service, Inc. " . : ad | was surely outbalanced by the dis- ON ae eter Pt , ? - hats LaNae: NUE) BARU GE AWM E sted
CalizisiPGLiAars Raivdisslalive would, as has been pointed out before, lead eit which the action reflected |t¢™Pts a foul shot, in applause for| while lover-boy WILLIAM ROB-|tale that is good, even for Neill,

420 MADISON AvE. New York, N. Y.

Cuicaco - BosTom - Los ANGELES - Sam PRancisco

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

to a loss of prestige, financial setbacks at
the gate ,and perhaps even the decline of
athlett strength. If we can use the past as
an indication of future trends (and in this

case it seems safe, to do so) we ¢an soon

on their school, a school incidental-
ly whose athletic teams have gen-
erally by Davidson
athletes sportsmanship

admired
their

been
for

a deserving opponent leaving the
game, and in general with the at-
titude and conduct befitting us as

Davidson men.

ERTSON, currently traveling
under the name of “Snowball Bill.”

Word has it that Rapid Robert's
(Continued on Page Four)

Paging the Professors .. .

discover that athletes don’t exactly flock to By Stan Kennett
. these institutions even when they have good BROx: BEVAN UL ae nigel a: SUCRE ys
n Tl ute ey . At Davidson for his first semes-}and has been impressed with the
seasons, It seems only logical then to seek eatin . ) : :
: aan ; : : ter is Prot. Bevan of the Psychology | enthusiasm showed by the student
If and when the average Davidson stu- to remain in the conference for as all great Department, He is a graduate of |body, He is particularly in favor
dent thinks seriously about the college and reformers soon learn it is much easier to, Franklin Marshall College in J of small colleges with their advgn-
tries to decide what makes it tick, the names | change am institution from within than it Pennsylvania, and conies here from |tages in contacts and general per-

graduate school at Duke University

sonality developmcie

of Dr. Cunningham, Dean Bailey, Dean is to alter it from without. —
a Where he hopes to eet hi Joctorate met erie wt : SEGA
Brown. Mr, Jackson, Mr. Gill, Mr. Hengeveld ‘ ; 5 ‘ : : REARS] SSE Se ahe A native of Plains, Pennsylvania,
; v ‘ What about going to the other extreme? in’ Psychology. Prof. Bevan is married and has a
or those of certain other faculty.or Board of ; 1 rd ‘ Prof, Beva REVGd I nethio ONG j ees ‘ :
irae? ' ; Gat ‘ Some students and alumni feel that we rol, hevan served in the Navy | daughter, ten months old,
rustee members may immediately come to * — r shila 5 re * Hi ¢ es
; ; ee reas : should vo all out to build fine teams in all during the Wek; 2 (Ee eh which PROF. McGEACHY
mind. All of these men, of course, perform’ | ais of ports—that should wive time he was in U-6-2 at Duke, pest Y, fy
R ‘ 2 "eC SS ope (3 s—thi ve should x2 5 ent ie ees ' rofessor McGeachy of the His-
vital functions and the college could not run Petals sites ¥ it exnen alls - studying for the chaplaincy, Upon oR ss t ‘4 achy of a ;
p , scnolars Ss Cé g or a sxpenses b : F3 + 8 | receiving $ ¢ “s Sec} Ay epartment, is a graduate oO
smoothly without them, but there is another } I ae er S.A.E. out how his lip got cut. Smiley] teceiving his BD and commission, Davidson in the cle f 1934. Afte
Bae , : : handsome outlays of spending money—that ot : ary | Tere Gy fee eertriie mien wenteon actives uty. and: was) pero ccc saa Ol gO a ESE
group which very seldom receives the praise : : is : F Being as these much, detested | just says,."I hurt it while riding a i Ay graduation he took his master’s
: ure ; we should relax the academic standards ™ |exams are over, all brothers and | sled’—but I hardly think so. stationed at Varris Island and coekanee : OC S_THAStEE §
anor ened thou Wag richly Qelem cs ue rder to keep all athletes in school—and led f S.A,E looking for I i 7 hat | Charleston degree in History at the University
x ; a 0 (Lé » Kee i es in se — pledges of S.A,R. are looking tor- ‘rom a reports, we hear tha ina 4 f J pteny fe ee as
men who work under the direction of our : AES set dha u P ; Nia ity dlatenes fen dhe of North Carolina and his dac-
Rede : : : 80 on. This, too, is not in keeping w ith the | ward to a most profitable Mid-|*Stoneface’ Little had~ quite a N aye ce {OER TEU ATIE en CaM Te die a eETae
capable and efficient Superintendent of David ak er ec he | winters dance. Maybe “profitable” | time in the snow. Pledge Gowerly | “4¥% Prof. Bevan returned__to ee mes RED RS Se
Pe avidson tradition and certainly cannot be ; I é ,| tory at the University of Chicago
Grounds and Buildings, Mr, F, D. Hobart. : ; luti : : a Davids ought to be defined—but we won't | braved the storm to venture to! Duke for the graduate study in = ee ee :
called a solution, Not even a avidson- monte that, Richmond, witha “Beta! in order |0sychology and was on, the staff From 1922-1946 Prof. McGeachy
The duties of the men of this department coach has ever advocated this, nor do many The pledges are very happy to be |to see his gal. Most of the Green-|#* 4 research “assistant, working | Was in the Army, assigned to Sig-

are varied and many. They supply us with
the things which we never think of except
when we cannot use and enjoy them—the

of the college’s supporters wish to see it
tried. After all, we are not in business to
compete with outfits like Clipper U, and a

eating at the boarding house with
their “dearly beloved" brothers.
Hawever, none as yet has been able
to figure out why the pledges are

vilie contingent journeyed home for
a very quict week-end—they say it
was quiet, anyway. For once, Carl
Pahi didn't g hit the road” for

with G. B. Ryan and Carl Zener.

Among his hobbies, Prof. Bevan
especially interested in, music.
He sings and plays the flute and

Is

nal Intelligence Service. Nuit of
the time he was stationed in Eng-
land where he pursuéd a hobby of
hiking and added to it the visiting

in lh . G ¥ » aed ‘mary <a jc ct} ror ‘ 3 7 it
electric lights, the hot water, the heat for college’s primary purpose is still to endeavor so. overwhelmed. with joy because | Greensboro td see his. voluperous drums. ‘In the line of sports his |of Roman ruins and cathedrals
the dormitories and the classrooms, and so’ | to educate those who attend it. of not having to eat in the college | “chick.” He says that she was in| interests have been in basketball} A native of North’ Carolina, Prof.
n. The fact that we seldom find ourselves dining hall—strange, what I mean! | the midst of exams—but we be-| 20d football. McGeachy began his teaching at

without hot water, lights, or heat is in itself
a tribute to the diligence and the alertness of
these men.

In addition a continuous survey is made
of the conditions of the college buildings,
and all defects are remedied as sgon as they
are discovered in most cases. Many other
large and small chores requiring a knowl-

What then should we do? It seems that
the general desire is for Davidson to, make
every effort to maintain its present position
in the conference. It may be necessary to
increase the size of our scholarships to make
this possible, but no one should object to
that. This means that we want to continue
to play against the smaller schools on the
gridiron plus one or two of the bigger powers

Many of the brothers were de-
tained from making their weekly
travels becuuse of the recent snow.
Speaking 0/ snow, it seems that
brother ‘‘Siniley” Hill was Jiterally
“snowed in’ at Greensboro, He
went crawling back to his old
flame in hopes of obtaining a much
desired date for Midwinters. No

lieve that some unknown character
is. giving ole’ Carlos a hard time—
what about it Carl. Pledge Minzes

has been looking forward to a cer-
tain girl attending, the dances with
him—but, as of now, he is in doubts
she be
going to State Midwinters, Jack?

as to her coming; could

Prof. Bevan finds the Davidsen

Davidson in 1938,

Think It Over

By MALLOY OWEN

Chances for Peace
In a poll of  student-faculty
opinion taken on this campus last

most tyranical nature and is carry-
ing out a program of territorial ex-
pansion, although the Russian peo-

; : _ pone, as yet, has been able to find (Continued on Page Four) week, 71 per cent believed that the} ple would not want war if they
edge of carpentry are done daily also. each year, and to compete against all comers U. S. and the U.S.S.R. will fight.| knew the truth.
in the-other sports that the Wildcat teams Is it that we Americans have at

As Mr. Hobart’s official title indicates,
his duties are not restricted to the buildings
on-the-campus, but also include the main-
tenance of the grounds. This work is carried
on in each season and under all conditions,
and is of a very vital nature.

\

Although the importance of this group
is often overlooked, the students of David-
son owe Mr. Hobart and his men a vote of

participate in. At the same time we, with
the help of those schools who share our
yiews- about subsidization of athletics can
continue to strive to persuade the non-
believers to join us in outlawing many of the
practices now. sanctioned or overlooked as
the various colleges vie for talent. Gradually
we may be able to make the Southern Con-

ference one in which at least those who de- -

The Poll-cat

In a recent poll taken by the faculty they placed their
students in several difficult classifications. (A, B, C, D, Et,
F—, ete.). About 30 of our fellow students were so badly
classified that they decided to go home. In the light of this
action we have held an informal superlative contest ;
voting being limited-to students. The questions-asked—were;

Of the faculty and administration, who do you elect as

the

last learned not to stick our heads
in the sand and deny that tyrants
are tyrants just because we don’t
want to believe it, or is it what so
many left-wingers say—-mere propa-
ganda hysteria?

It is very evident, we believe,
that if events continue to fol-
tow their~current course, war
IS coming. One ofthe most ab-
surd accusations we have heard

Russia is not prompted by
fear or by any “injustices” we
have done. She is merely mak-
ing hay while the sun shines on
the thirty-year-old plan for
world conquest, forcing her so-
called “Communism” on ali
other countries as Russian
slave-states, run by a 3 per
cent party and its secret police.
Propaganda? Propaganda? Ask

thanks for services rendere ‘ sir a certain ¢ 4 the: i ie caste ved Poles, Hitoniens
ces d. We should sire to pbrond a certain college will be able Rannersip Honorable Mention} is the ridiculous declaration Latvians, Lithuanians, and Yu-
make jan honest effort to cooperate with to ‘‘afford’’ to do so, This may sound that if enough Americans keep goslavs, But Russia may
them whenever possible. strange but even today some colleges offer Man ict, Joun” eS John saying there will be a war, that change.
so little financial aid to deserving athletes DENNCHON | corns Cunningham: ---<Rnpwasc2--¢--- HE ABECHER they will bring it on by just Hee Wie EER
f : : 1. g Is coming if t present
that they must seek help elsewhere. By Witti . id ers naan tied aM Saeee eee eee ene trend of Sven scare un-
To Be or Not To Be then setting maximum and minimum limits» ie eee See ee ios Backs Ue 1939, but their eee only altered. It is our duty as Christian
: | fon aleeenolaraiiite wocatt again have wrcon: Pee Betiard wis : pron aided the dictaters' plans for | Citizens to alter the course of events
With all due apoligies to one William ference when all members can compete with BERSEE or eno tcee SYS EERE eae Wee ern Johnston : war and world conquest, en ce Wille, “we Still _haye the
: : > . she é i. opportuni
Shakespeare, the above oft quoted phrase is | gach other on an equal basis, Of course, we Biggest John Charlie William se a ee teat oS re vee a oe
being borrowed beciuse it clearly sets forth ey Ts of “ Bbiete reece Kimbrough ----- PRDISEROR “ens tors MeGavook re goi : / | i
; 5 Ais : may find it impossible to put over our ‘‘re- ‘ : are going to do to stop the present We must not stand idly by while
a question. which the officials of Davidson}. 7s . : : Biggest Athletic Fred John Jack trend toward war,-To-deny— the Europe-and-China-starve. We must
=} : i yaw forms’’—in which case more drastic action Supporter Hengeveld “Gallant... _-.- Behrman eer Renee : PeStanhtyav¥Celt1it9
College must face squarely within a few ~-p--- Feng ---- 7 facts is not the way. First we must | not allow our air, land, sea’ and
weeks. The probleii facing the administra- may be necessary—hut why not try first? ; “Cash” Giekhec 5 “Cash” do just what 71 per cent of David- scientific. preparedness to lag, but
tion, the ‘alumni, and for that matter the | After allwe have nothing to lose and much Thriftiest _...--- Jackson -------- Brown ------ 7-7 Jackson sonlans have evidently: done, face) rather must Keep our powder dry
; ; the facts like men. Russia, at! (there is nothing a dictator re-

student body as a whole, has been brought

to gain.

present, is a dictator state of the’

(Continued on Page Four)
