TOMORROW

BEAT THE INDIANS

be Davidsonian | ocx.

ALENDA

LUX UB)

ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXXVII

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, F RID AY,

SEPTEMBER 24,

1948

Number 1

Dr. Cunningham
Attends Amsterdam
-World Conference

Between August 21 and Septem-
ber 5, there took place in’ Amster
dam, Holland, a meeting of I’'ro-
testant Christians from 42 nations
of the world. It was the Assembly
of the World Council of Churehes
which has since 1937) existed in
provisional form and now, as a
result of this meeting, has reached
its final stage of organization. Rep

resenting the Southern VPresby
terian Chureh were our own preési
dent, Dr. Cunningham, Dr. Homer |
MeMillan of A\tlanta, Georgia,
and ‘Mrs. C, S. Harrington of
Houston, Texas. “Phe assembly was

and nearly
to-
and

made up of 450 delegates
1,000 alternate
the
amounted
2,000

delegates. These,

ether with press, advisors
to a total
Vhere

in

speakers, of

approximately were
presidents who
over the assembly.
Dr Jott R- Mott (U. -S));
Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr
\rch

|

and

five turn pre

sided They
were:
the

Mare

bishop

Boegner © (France),

Upsala (Sweden)

of
Archbishop Germanos,
The
great
Cathedral
August 22.
land's big
which Julianna was crowned queen

opened with
in the
on Sunday
This

cathedral,

meeting Was

a service Nieuwkirk
afternoon,

Hol

) is

chureh
the one
just two weeks following the meet
ing the
is just

Just opposite

a square, which, before

meeting began, was packed so that
it

to get through.

wits almost impossible for one

The program began

with a colorful processional com-
posed of the 450 delegates, whieh
was followed by an address by

Dr. Mott on the ecumenical move-
ment as it has developed in the last

in|

cathedral |
the |

COURT OF CONTROL JUDGES

|

Members of the Court of Control are (left to right, top row): Judge Gene Bingham, senior members “Bronco”
more and Bill Brownson; (bottom row); junior members Ernie Strictlin, Buddy Chandler; sophomore members Tom Allen and
Davis. These defenders of Davidson tradition mete out just punishment to unwary violators of the freshman-regulations,

few years, Dr. Mott has himself ‘ M U
been identified with almost every Special Davidson Eig ht New Men
step in this movement,

The first formal session of the Train To Raleig h
assembly met Monday ‘moyrning, on Faculty
August 23, when, after a service F St t G
of worship and necessary prelimi or a e ame | Eight new teacher Apeenti

2 i . i Ss, representing
UES considerations, the World How would you like to go faleeten different academic fields have
Council of Churches was duly the game in Raleigh on October 9?| been selected as members ’*of the
brought into being by the vote of If chough of the students here at} Davidson College faculty for the
the delegates representing theitipntdeony tiihetinteea good aiden: l year 1948-49. The SU ROITErs bring
churches. It | was a high and lyon needn't worry too much about | [the total of active professors to 54
solemn moment which will never] cuts, Oe Ok aR avant fea a new high. :
be forgotten by any of those who| eeratalh i f | In Spanish, Dr. James Y. Causey,
pe ipeted ne Ph : If as many as two hundred mem- | recently professor of Spanish at
: Phe next ten days were spent We ate ite Dauideon erinene bod epee and Charles W. Roberts
formulating plans for the coordina: | ‘ Nausea ate baa eh lrg who thi ar did gradus :
tion of the work of the churches. | 62" 1 make this trip, the ce Se REE uate cn eeN uate
They took as their theme, Levee SUITE will be able to charter 4 | work ay Pere ueve eed eiecves
iDieorder and God's Design.” ciel eee to Raleigh for the game, The lee ans aGty naniss Godcharles,
reports of the meeting in Avett first trantesettstinve no: one but David Reet a pe sedes co ae : iar
aii ; : : : _,,sen boys aboard, and the price of | College, Schenectady, N. Y., is a
form will Be LEU de AES tickets will be regular fare. ,The| {ll professor here in his chosen
volumes which will come from the Featn’ avlllodenae SOR Gil SneaTe “Sat. field, and Jay H. Ostwalt, '35, has
press ee : eau Christian urday, the Ollvoatel a ae ane come from Duke, where he has
neie The personnel of the assem-|* p. min plenty of time to get | cational EUV ESnO1ORY; Ko UTC) ah
Rive was made up of clergymen to the game, The boys aren't plan-|@sseciate professor in’ Education,

) Gt : “7 Thing to have the train pull out un- Another Davidson graduate,
laymen, women and youth of al 1 foil! Aes anty| Frank M. Sinclair, 37,. who has
most all races and colors, It is too W eli oO, VOU a ane plenty Lone oleh Lar AE Le

' . of time to break a few rules gétting [been teaching at Catawba College,
early =to NA Sg the eaelens Olin touch with that little “hunk of | Salisbury, and was at Mississippi
the assembly, Such results are yet nue ition amet Las study.| State College during the summer
to be discovered in the future. The die tt Meredith, St. Maryte Phace lof 1948, will become a professor in
fact 1s, however, that AMA ASL have Br Avienavanet vane isan ners ent Economics and Business. Sinclair
there gathered in the Christian era inv <cheduled time for arrival here{taught at “Davidson ‘the — spring
so representative a body from all ee Davidson, because we frankly|semester of 1946 before going on
parts spf the World: It is the belie don't care when we_ret_here. We|to graduate work at the University
of those who shared in the AVS eae fe ge rs etd a haveca loilof North Carolina. —Joe | E,
that Soret Ing. eee OUS Ral Gfdnebot going and coming, but,| Martin, “46, has been added to the
He ae uF deceagune are os there’s only one thing that Can -keepy Mathematics Department. For the

i salty ‘ .,,{through. Fortunately, it's a thing | time instructor at the Usor aN. Gr
present realize. aN Dar ins Were that we have very {ittieeotaiere a while also working on a Ph. D. de-
Council of Churches can mean to Davidson” It's dack of student co-| gree. He received his M. A. from
evangelism and missions and to Ee ae Vanderbiltl in 1947, One. English
the spirit of understanding of] © See grt PRES eae °
brotherhood . essential to world For the venture to be financially euSUSt: yewnes se Poel SANG:
peace remains to be seen, On: the possible, at least 200 fellows mus ae tor ee se EN LL Pre
last morning of> the assembly a]Want to go. Of course, any number Ane from Duke ct NAS ay Hae
message, to be sent to all churches, | 0%"! that amount will be even bet.| ken up ae gue cere: Pavicsen:
of the assembly, was addpted, It} ter: Here’s a_chance for us to back Lacy -S.-Sellars-and-John-M; tes
will be read: from Protestant pul. ;our team in a game where they! Wart both Saduates af the Clase
pits in the various nations on World will need all the backing we can : sek a eau as_inatructors m
Communion, Sunday, October 3. give them, Here's a chance for us Biiyatcs pido Ciemilatny ny teapecs

to show our school spirit., Here tively.

tl ah AnCeNtOnuDeatG tarot ids tu The athletic department has an-
VESPERS Decides af this trip works out nounced the acquisition of the serv-
‘ suecessfully, there will. be trains to]ices of Boyd H. Baird as freshman
Sept. 26—The Reverend War- | 14) other Davidson football games| football coach. Baird, a graduate
ner L. Hall, D. D., Second hiih  tieeaetinent ay ~. tof Maryville College, has done
Presbyterian Church, Char- e oe Rs Se AU saree graduate work at Ohio Wesleyan
lotte. chartered to, The sucess of ourland the University of Illinoig, serv-
CHAPEL entire football BeReOn might wellfing as assistant coach at the former

hinge-on how this_offer is received | institution.

Monday, September 27—Prof. |}, the student body. Tt’s up to all William R. Smth, ITT (45), re-

Bernard Boyd. of us, and the price of a round-|cently. pastor of_ the Yadkinville
Tuesday, September 28—Mr. {1:3 ticket is only $8.00. When you} Presbyterian Church, has been ap-
Norman Shepard. : can beat this offer, just Jet Scruggs] pointed the new secretary of the
Wednesday, September = and Upthureh know about .it and|college YMCA, replacing Bill Mc-
President J. R. Cunningham. . ‘ :

Thursday, September 30—Prof. they'll eat it on the spot. lLean. ,

Lewis N. Schenck. It's up to you, fellows, how] Jo Jo Thigpen of Williamston is

Friday, October 1-——-YMCA. about it? Shall we see you in|the college’s new sports publicity

Raleigh? ' director, succeeding -Lacy McLean.

Court of Control
Roars Into Action

The famous Davidson Court of Control

in 1923 in order to control the up to then overly violent Fresh

man hazing—has again resumed

wayward | wearers of the red.

Dr. Stubbs

Visits Campus

Recent visitor of distinction to
the campus was Dr, W. Py Stubbs,
former professor of — Volitical
Science at Emory University. Dr
Stubbs is currently associated with
the J. Bulow Campbell Foundation

of Atlanta which gives large finan-

cial grants each year to deserving
church and educational institutions.
the foundation
increased Davidson's endowment by
fifty thousand dollars, Dr
Stubb’s mission on the campus this
the

Several yedrs ago,
and

week has been to investigate

possibilities of a further large grafit

to the Davidson Development
Fund.

In his investigations, Dr. Stubbs
spoke at one chapel program and

He talked with fac-
even

visited another.
and
attended the meeting of the
of Control. On the lighter
his Dr, Stubbs regretted
that he could not be here Saturday
to watch the Wildcats Wil-
and Mary.

ulty and student groups,
Court
side of

mission,

beat
liam

Construction Begun
On Gymnasium

On the north end of Richardson
Field, a dream is in the process of
coming true. For years, the need of
a larger and more adequate gym-
nasium on the campus has been in-

creasingly evident. In  1942.'43,
alumni and friends of Davidson
contributed money to the amount
then needed for such a building.

Construction had to be postponed
at that time because of wartime
building restrictions and a shortage
it material.

But on Friday morning, July 23
official ground-breaking ceremonies
were conducted by President John
R. Cunningham, beginning the erec-
tion of the new gymnasium. The
brief program.included the singing

(Continued On Page Four)

SENIOR CLASS OUTNUMBERS
INCOMING FRESHMAN CLASS

Despite the absence of the traditional lveshiman eaps thus
far around the campus, the collewe has been invaded by a voodly
Humber of voune stalwarts,-commonty tibeled-amder the term
“Bish? Although no exact ostatistics have been compiled
to date, the most offieial count obtainable © indieates
A ppro tel 13 freshmen have
eae ( tered to become a part of this
raternities re 1 MS istrious institution
; Phe hmau Class is by no
means one of the Jarger classes as
@ ge has been the ‘case in the last few
ea Wena teett) he smallest
Well, now that the big weel \ n this year,
Davidson's ten social ‘fraternitic A } eee class
ti j records and this
Vas come and gone, now that th es , ;
fraternity omen have exhauste | : : ; Rae f ely
themselves rushing the ne t | ! : ae ee
and “rocks” on the Davidson ¢ | pays
pus, and the freshmen have « ist Shue
( roa close
ed themselves trying to take it a , i
, eK | Cl \
in and make their choice frat ; ; win
nities, letS take afTook at the fina ; , ata
tudents .
results 4S Fetewsed by the Pan-tlel ; : Ene
lenigAJouncil. A total of 162 boyshy oo. cs ' + ae UDe the
were pledged by these social fra]. rhe oe sr
ternities after four days of wild and | ; Ses aha
heetic rushing. These ney led AIRES alee BO
rccording to collere ree ments, ; ; Leann and
CHIOLG SB t t AVG ¢
will not be eligible for initiation un ; ns ; : , Ube Mia , aah
til afta they) Sveye  sueecesstully : ea pee A
passed their first semester of wort . us : i herent devs seh that
1 ( 4 mit 4 is 4 Mot make
Those bovs who reecived and ae : u Woiisbaadie
RHIEREUIlk care A it it lacks in ae
Court of Controt-awill see
KAPPA ALPHA eae j lee (eee
William A. Adams, William Duc ‘ 3 rane 3 at see ae
key, William J. @ox, oR \ me ie i aL
‘ ( pirit
Dickson, Jr, J. Howard | es ate
| ' the eprivilede
John \ Hunter, elt, \ha ; 3 peel
eheeri { i Vidson teaml as con-
McWilliams, Jr. Mames S. Viaetteson, : eal:
; ; ~ = nae tra tev ft hOrner py e tee aot
Bailey, J. D. Ash- ) Byron W, Robinson, John Te Stes 1
aa ¥ s A 1 \ paft of fresh-
“Hoopy” enson, Thomas S. Re Ward, and EIN ei eres te
7 im nN
Frank. Winston, hh ;
f ie ren aren Hl 1 n iterent
A BETA THETA PI ist ene areeeeneen
se nes pesulilebe ; F backgroun ind place lese met
Pete Kalogfides, Ralph \W oie AV Te eH PA faa
; ; ‘ i nuit nN Ve avidson virit
Northeutt, Jr, Willard Tlorne, Rob ; : Deane
case to isp. Two of the farthest
ert MeVheeters, Furman Purgu | | i if ;
place nown home” by in
son, Roy Horne, Francis Peppy : 1, f ; A
2 divid of the frosh clan are
Robert Nimocks, Henry ‘ il We Wipes irae} “Cl a
lonoluk ink hanghai ina.
Ir, Robert Patton, Winslow Dal [yy : ; H ‘ "
é ‘ home ome ot le states
lew, Plaine Kelley, Men Rash, Tact ; { ee Lee
ve : romote tocthis part ot the country
Peayeraft, © W Henry Hankin i oe
es > Trepresented are Vexas, New York,
John Jervis, Roberts Hotnic Willey \I 1 fal Pp
- . ¥ ‘ ivi nadwana, 4 &
originally founded | tian Williams, Thomgs Craven, and 7 ne esas eet
St i Si} & : sylvania, and Mic an. The largest
ant Onippey, ’
of course, are Tare Heels
. . . . . > Ip > )
its task of meting out justice to ; PI KAF PA PHI the rest of ‘the SHersilait
Clarence KF. Caleote, Vhillip) M . :
tit “y representation
Miller, Harvey D. © MeClintoek, mre Ea eae
In a very dramatic chapel talk, Neal ‘anita heel ; mK ! the large number
. ( dow ( kk , )
Judge Geae Bingham of the 1948 Rar —t oe ear Hi r bh
; : ‘ rts, )
Davidson Court of Control, gave a aie y ee ue hee ; ee \s thtre have been no -official
; Chk ark Jalto
statement of the Court's policies + WALSH SING ! AAsed Latistse released as vet from’ Mr.
; ¢ en ; William 11. Neal, Jrv.. Trew Gurley, ;
for this year. Bingham admonished ee : ‘ i Ilenvevel dtfice, no further data
: William F. Henning, Jr, Cee DD] ;
the upper-classmen to take greater | iy \ le at this time concern-
Rhodes, Ie, Ben -C. Morris, John '
precaution «in their handling ot ing -the number of-veterans, trans
' M. Pierec Ben J. Dryman, Tr
freshmen this year, making sure ) ‘ 2 ‘ ! ete. There are 10
Lewis B. Hyman, | Mu
that they abide by the time-flavored pecial students whieh brings up
Aeon MUON He called fort ge? a ooee NK ee t of the Coll
avidsc aditions e called fo 4 tal enrollment of the ( “re
; Gerald Nall, Will Sargent Fo No
greater support on the part of ths : 1) t enrollment
upperclassmen in seeing that tl Rol SUES TPUSUS SNES URS Sethi t i tl :
PETCTASSIE seo Va ie Speyer pa yay 1 ' eortamn that le
: PHI DELTA THETA i eae
freshinen carry out their numerou ; ew freshit will unite with
a heer ‘ Dallas Viekard, Jy Williana ;
tasks. “In the past,” Bingham said, ’ il | upholding -the
- ; Warren, Jr., Edward 1 Sutt ;
the Court of Control has) served . ’ i ne 1) dson traditions that haye
Richmond Bernhardt, Allen Strand
merely as a means to seare the], a prevailed
: ' «| Kennon ‘Taylor, William Bacon, I.
freshmen into obedience, but in}. i ;
A C. Robert Clark, Samuel %. biel
the future the court will assume a
Sree eet ac er? Ansley Hl. Moses, Walter Y
cons ce task ‘
FR ‘ . . Hust ake Yo t Sy t
Fhe Court of Control will) be vey ugh Huffaker, Don H en TO Ic ocle
moninosell peaitnetaty refer enby, and Thomas ¢ ine
miposed 0 ‘ingham, tronco
ey aN ; SIGMA ALPHA E Her ON ‘
Bailey, Jake Ashmore, Bill Brown Kaltes d 140) Tam
‘ 2 ; Nlex F. Goley, Robert Ber
son, Ernie Stricklin, Buddy Chand i onte Neal ae Mt
ler, ‘Vom Alley and Hoopy Davis Nett =] OSGi ariel recat u i vit Literary
4 : Hinson, Jr, Joseph H. Miller, 111, a j
he latter was named to supplant]. ’ : t Hans toetold js first meet-
. : . George H MeMurray, © William ) tact
Floyd Mclean, who did not return]. n t Lucsday evening,
é : Crosby, Phil Hammond, Raymond | (),y | Bilin 7G
to the campus this year. Davis is a . , ns | Saterenaaete ; : ull at 7:30
7 jH. Holland, Jr., Roy VT. Johnston, | sy Can iercer th ; :
: j : Ol ti roe re
member-of_the varsity Wildcats and} fp, Victor G. ‘Taylor, James 1h}; : \ Bh
ae : e : ant t t presented ar
hails from Decatur, Ga. Huffinan, Everett Blake, Thomas],,).,, F ere ae es Sats
plat ( ed ! le Col ita 4 >
During the meeting behind | § oleman, Bruce G Ballenger, | 4, j ties» \. steering commit-
: y 5g oa Marshall P. James, Jr ji }
closed doors, Bingham was ‘t PHI GAMMA I ELTA Ct Ml a series of pro-
Paiee : : JEL" 14 |
‘ . ‘ ne ¢ . r ! \ i“provide a variety
phatic in his declaration that the Gamucl-G. Alexanders Jn, Carol t hal aiit ¥:
Court of Control was going-to be) y. Camp, George 1. Chandle : ee os a
‘ j oe j : © society anc
used primarily to instill the David-| Samuel ©. Cummin [ieee syamies| as cee lif
} : ; te 1 Wee campus life.
son traditions and spirit in the -in-}M.—Viekeisen, Alan 1), Groseclose,| 4 ¢ ivain’ be sponseted
; rs = F i +s | as 5 —
oming freshmen, With Bingham William J. Jonesy, Vhotias L.. Ma fa tories And poetry; de-
11 7 F pam il ton, Joel W. Mattison, James Ie z TCR TICES ie
and his other five cohorts, al Tit with the a-
he ee eelapcr, II, Wallianied. Wianty dyeliang Aron mbenibers
equipped with a fast wit and quick] \faynard Royster bh * EN ENO Re oe
Mayni ; A f the Philanthropic Society. It. i
tongue, the freshman will rest eel SIGMA CHI ; that carrer : ‘i
ms Ope there w ye severa
sured that they will be well taken James. Avfénes; 111, William A! cet sto which speakers from
eare of in Phi Hall. Bingham also PUOodman, Elliott. Verner, aaa u f Davidson. will Hees to
f Poole, James Blackburn, Douglas ; 7a
emphasized that the upperclassmen} © y ; - j fect on pertinent subjects.
Sanders, William Brooks, Harry} fie Wilk adie da
; aac athie Satie ; i | : lanthropic Society is the
should be sure that they hand in Whitaker, James Grisson; Ed Fran lat Hees Aled > pavid
aie ; 5 4 , i oldest literary socie ) 1e F is
legitimate complaints of the Class|cisco, Fred Best, | ‘i : at Bie
son ¢ o function without in-
of '52.-“Last year,” said Bingham, PI KAPPA ALPHA Peres tion. It has as its purpose the
: ° ; | on as as its Os
too many upperclassmen submitted l adson I.. Dubose, Adolf Oterson.| tivation of thé literary and ora=
. 7 * - Jr.. William L.: Hart, Herman N ; 5
far-fetched complaints just for the : : torical ‘talents of its members, -A
dared __| Hayden, Jr. Sam G. Seawell, Ru Lneicladne ot pealint eS errs
sake of amusement, [his ycarJetsiitj< Gshomie, Bernard, G.. Brown, sEhiemsnnnna nae rye Manors erp oa
make certain that the freshman has} Angus ‘I. 9 McKellar, Charles|#"d of spontane debate is in-
committed’ his violation before his} M,. Barrett Kenneth Newbold, cidentally picked up at the meet-
name is’ submitted.” ‘Phe college] Charles Newbold, Jack Turner, Jr.,Jings fand — the members of the
Ng ps : 1 ) a: ni 7 Fi
can rest° assured that the year ot Thomas 8, Rose, II, Phil D. Cox.| society enjoy one of the strongest
aiate . : Richard A. Boyd, Rober $ A °
1948 will firid a far more impartial G R Ma ti = EE One ON: bonds of fraternal unity of any hon-
; J : srover R. Martin, Jr. : ss
and constructive Court of Control SIGMA PHI EPSILON orary society on the‘ campus New
than any other in the long history] Eugene D, Morton, George A,|™embers will be elected toe the
of Davidson College. (Continued From Page One) — society in the fall and in the spring.

