FACULTY ADDITIONS 2 "WONDERING "AROULD
ne > SS
The following professors will join at this late date, there is very
the faculty here,at Davidson at thelittle left to wonder about, so
beginning of the fall tern. this week as we are putting this
paper"to bed and to rest" we want
Dr. James Y%. Causey, Emory U. to take this opportunity to offer
the Spnanish Department, congratulations to a few. That is
——Charles \!, Roberts,_'41, Dmory after asking a fev final. questi ons, -—
U. Spenish Dert, : " .
Josevh BE, liartin, '46, UNC, MathIJust wondering: °
ematics Department, . How much'Happler “idoo" Patterson
Frank it. Sinclair, '37, Catawba will be to pet back to Charlotte?
and iiss. State. economics and Busi- \What Big Leighton will do about’

»nNeSS. ‘ his three weekly trips to Charlotte
James S. Purcell, Stetson. Eng- How "Fatman" Drymon will get "Old
_lish Dept. | ee — Faithful"to Vlorida? _°
____ vay _H,. Ostwalt, "35. Duke, The What "eeping Willie" is weeping
Psychology Dent. (H#ducation). avout?- Local~interest?
_ Charles Godcharles, Union. Psy- t0;-—————————_
chology Denartnent. Congratulations to Charlie Dock-
Lacy 5S. Sellars, Davidson Cole ery, who after three years here is
lege. The Fhysics Departient, about to settle down, Awreally?——-
Jonn l.. Stevart, Davidson Col- Charlie Robinsons Luck to you at
lege, The Chemistry Department, lied School.Zorro, You will need it_
Jo Jo Thigpen, WiC, Public Rela-since they have not had an opportuni
tions. ; ty to tind out you are a fenius, ~~
Sill Smith, Davidson College and Muscle Hoskins; Our sympathy to;
Union, "Y" Secretary, ~—-—~ _ you since’ you fafled to catch the °
Boyd H, Beard, Ohio Wesleyan, bus to Kinston, ‘that is okay my boy
Freshman Football, because they run the year round,
(Teard once assisted in football Dick Stones Good luck to you son

at Ohio Wesleyan, but during the and may hAanpiness. be. yours, (Weddirg
past year coached the football tecamRell's are breaking up. that old
on Brown High School ,»f Delaware, gang). Orange Blossoms, Dick?
Ohio.) , George Adais? We join you in yor
College listed is the one with new found joy. A little change in
which the professor was last affil-plans, perhaps?—
iated. Those listed with class year Bunny Perrin: Our sympathy if
are graduates of Davidson. .- you have not found that address by
this time.
Joe Stukes : As you léave David
* son,Joe, we want you to know that
' dt has been a true pleasuie to have
In the final and what turned outworked with you during the past years
to be the tightest gane of the sea-and that we wish-you all the Success
son the All-Stars managed to’ stop that you’so rightly deserve. Good
a determined end fighting team fromluck, J.T, 22 .

———— AEB} STARS -TAME-WELDCATS

West. A game of true championship The Seniors: Congratulations and
calibre closed the season vith the good luck to all of youd °
following standings: ® This paper: may you rest in peace
Team *—~ —— W L é until next summer, -

All-Stars 5 1 0833 The Editor: jiay you just rest in
Wildcats 3 3 2500 pieces. —_

Peaches 0 6

.000 That's all! Thank goodness!
