PAGE TWO

ron .

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915

“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON” -

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR. x.

MAC HART EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

JOHN McNAIR ~.-_---------- BUSINESS MGR.
EDITORIAL STAFF
Stan Kennett ~.------- Leena eee Associate Editor
Bill Cafhoun .-- - Associate Editor
Ronnie Dietrick - Associate Editor
Jack Hazard --- ---- Sports Editor
Bob Hollister ------- --- Managing Editor
Lonnie: ‘Turnipseed -.- - Managing Editor
Doug Hix ..-.-- . - Managing Editor
Dick Morgan --.-- -- --- Managing Editor
Tom Niblock .--. . Staff Photographer
Bill King .--.-2-- .---.-2--.---------e -Cartoonist

eee oe Poll-Cat Editor

EATURE REVPORTIRS—Malloy Owen, Randy
Taylor Warren Simms, Phil Mitchell, Hardey Mall,
Boycé Kendall, ab Grube and Warren Sims.

“REPORTERS—Jimmy Henritzy, Henry Hansen,
Perry Gregg, Harry Shurley, Gabe Lowe, John Cal-
houn, Ken Jones, Kaiph Robinson, Tom Allen, Dick

Charlie Keid

Barnwell, FdscWest. Jim) Murray,’ Fommy. Holler,
Bob Hubbell, Will McCrary, Tom Mann, Bill Cum-

ming, Phil libby, Ben. Dryimon, Angus McKellar,
Dudley Pendleton, Jimmy Fickeison, Pete Kalogridis,
Dick Chandley, Boo Northeutt, Stuart, hippey, Hugh
Huffaker, J.ewis Hyman, Frank WinstSn and Bill
Neal, Bill Hollister, Nat Daniel.

SPORTS STAFIE—Cherey Stribling, Gordon Scott,

Furman Warlick, Watt Jettries, Bilt White, Phil Haimn-
» mond, Bryant Robinson, Dan MecKeithan, David

Whitener, Ed West, Bill Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT_STAFF: Jim Carr, Claude Higgin-
bothan, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown, and
Neal Underdown. .

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

we---e W. S. McSwain
---- Wyhe Smith
Bilt -Houck
YL Cassels

Asst. Circulation Manager - ill ;
Asst, Advertising Afanager ...-— Charles Clinkscales

Asst. Advertising AMlanaver Ilector McKeithan
Assistant Advertising Manager.---Davidl McConnell
Collections Manas Charles Dockery |
Subscriptions Mew cer _.- John Fuitin

ASSISTANTS — Pall Cumming, Bill Hart, Marshall
James, Duval Hunter, Bob-Erwin, Bill Phare, Harold
Clayton, Sam Cummnifing, Rod Shaw.

CIRCULATION- STAFE — Alex

Phillips, Parks Dahon, Geeil Rhodes, |
Joe HH. Miller, Ne: . wudewn, Tommy Haller,

Goley, Floyd
Ansley Moses,

—hineved ane ter potinds-per man,

EDITORIALS

their -Lujack’s"’—and the way they never
realize the greater pleasure of developing
and supporting ‘‘honiegrown'’ heroes when
you can't afford the tailor-made All-Ameri-
cans, .

Although it is undoubtedly a sad commen-
tary on the academic ideal of our people, no
other phase of our educational life commmattds
half as mueh ‘interest and attention as does
the great god foutball. No other phase gets
as inueh diterest from as many of the varied,
elements that make up every student body.
Othe# sports, neacdemic pursuits, extra-curri
culur activities, social life. Fraternity life,
religious life -they ali take a ‘subordinate
position to football on the college campus.:

In high school, the most dynamic drive
tlint inuves any teenager is the desire to play
football. A boy with that authition will cling
to it with more industry and tenacity Chan
airy other goal secins able tosmuster.

ew things in the history of human life
and thought have inspired the avid interest
that footbali does today the story of the
Zible, the heroie deeds of chivalrous knights

‘ol ofa. Ge story of our own Ameriean his-

tory, brave tales of ucts of Leroisin in war,
and a few others all eases that pitted com: _
bined might aud right against heavy odds.
For what- could be mightier than a seven-
mau line averaging two hundred pounds per
nian -exeept av seven-man line averaging two
And what
could be vighter than giving our all for the
dear oldt Davidson Wildcats, of the dear old
Carolina Tarheels. or the dear old Podunk
Whistletooters :

College foothall is undoubtedly running
away with itself and overstepping its bounds.
Who was it that deserihed a college as the
old, ramshackled sroup of hatldings down

John Hardin,, Thad Mounice, Hugh Elutfaker, Ben
Morris, Cam Vs Paul Gathry, Gene Vaylor.

o

snl,

Entered es seconclass matter at the Post Office at
Davidaon, North Carolina, under the wt of March & 1897,

SUBSCRIITION RATES
Ten centas per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

€
MEPRESENTEO 909 MATIONAL AOVERTIOING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.

College fuatsshors Representative
420 Mapison AvE. Naw Yoru, N.Y.

” Cuicaao + Bosttn —tos ANGELES + Bam Francisco .
nium crs Ah f ae
a
1948-—— Member , 1949

Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Grid Season Ends

Thursday afternuon the football season of
1948 was over for Davidson. For about a
dozen senior wembers of the football squad,
not to inention the cest of the senior elass,
college foothul! was over. Of course, they
will continue to follow Davidson teams and
will see them play whenever possible as all
good ahnunt do. Bit that duniii of having a
(eam that yor ate a pari of. that is a part
of yon, Out there battling for the Wildest

spirit before # teeming sladina fall of peopler

will be gone.

Regardless Of the outvome of Thursday's
game — wieh had wet been determined
when this was written we did not have a.
particularly good vear. The won-lost-tied

~-reecord was not good and we hit a midseason
slump that Avas neither expkunable nor easy
to wateh. Llowever. the class of ‘+9 does have
it's candidates for ‘the ranks of the Wildeat
immortals who, for fight and spirit and abili-
ty, will stack up with Davidson's all-timers

~ —at least, in. the memories “of those who
went to school with them. In class reunions
for years to come, ‘(old grads” of the etasses
of '47 Uirough’ 7°52 will tall about the grid-
iron exploits of Buddy Cheek, Mae Erwin,
Easy Rhodes, Carl Pall, Mike Williams, and
the four senior members of the squad. They
are a part of our college career and ave will
not forget thei.

It isa strange thing, the power that foot-
Dall has over people. The mmeanny way a
close, thrillitig gameé can turn a cheering

—secHor-ofseverattreusand _peaple—into—one
voice with a heart all its own—the almost.
impertinent way that &i Saturday afternoon
spartscaster can inject himself into any
‘group's conversation with the latest round-

at Davidson we keep foothall a little wore

qin its rigia place. We play the gamer hw

fun that’s @ H. and not so muclf tur the
profit und publicity involved. Morcover, we
cherish the game for the character building
ynalities it offers fae the player and for the
school alike. °

We boast. that our football team is com
posed of men who are Jeonders in campus
activities of all sorts. We are proud to hear
from an unoffietal but authoritative souree
that the scholastic average of our Football,
players js actually higher Ghan the average
of the student body at large,

These ure some of the reasons why
Davidson men will alivays be proud of their
foutball teams and the men that sake them
up, even if we do have an occasional bad
night ugainst State.

Closing of Stud

The newest rimor on the campus has it
that the Student Store will elose its doors
after Tuesday fur an indefinite Te: ith of
time. The report is that The Stud_has lost
in the neighborhood of two thousand dollars |
Sinee the bevinning of this semester in Sep:
teniber,

According to our sourees, which should
be anthoritative, there is little ‘possibility of
any wholedile theft, The place is securely
locked at night and guarded fairly eonstant-
ly throughout the night. There has been no
evidence of anybody's breaking in, and no
large quantities of stock have been missed
at any time. Also no money has been missed .
out of the cash register. Because there were
similar losses last spring and summer, all
other than students. have been kept out of
the store this fall.

All other possibitities having been elimi-
nated by careful study, the only rémaining
answer seems to be that some of the students
are taking advantage of the honor system
regularly by getting articles and not paying
for them. The loss is too large—it would
average (wenty-five to thirty dollars a diy
—to be charged up to carelessness in for-
wetting to pay.

No accusations are being made. There is
indirect evidence that some students are
regularly and. intentionally walking out
without paying, Whether or not they con-
siderthis steatine,we-ean -enl-it-by-ne other—
name. There is no evidence that this explains
‘the whole loss except that all other reasona-
ble possibilities have been_carefully cheeked _
and, found to be all right.

up of_the day's scores—the romantic_body_| | Stealing isa breach of the honor system,

of dramatic stories that has grown up around
the game and its heroes and never ceases to
inspire the average red-headed American
~ male—the overbearing pride and affection
students and alumni of the big universities
have for their ‘‘Choo-choos.”’ their ‘“Trippi’s”

punishable by dismissal from college. The

serve-yourself, figure-your-own-bill system of ,

purchasing used in the Stud is an everyday

application of the Honor Systéni. Tf steal:

ing were all$wed to contifue in the Stud, fit
© Continued On Page Four)

{as of late. Saw Brother J,

jf brighit 1up_tl I Old Light.
beh tie staitinin Wowever. we fect thar —[-72eitened-up_the. place, -Old_Ligh

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, November 26, 1948

Zhe DAVIDSON IAN Presents

LETTERS

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
* Once upon a imidnight dreary
while Uo -pondered weak and
weary... It looks like “ponder-
ing weak and wetiry™ is geting to
be quite the thing around here,
trother “Snazz? Pate
coming te grips with Royd's Bible
C..Roberts
darken the doovs of the itbrary for
one of the first times this year.
Brother Gill Hladgin seems to be
holding the dope on Money Sand
Banking what has potten mito the
old Sine Alphas

has) been

However, on the other hand,
Grgenshoro taok._its toll of the
Grothers this. pastuweek cnd Sands
Lewis had. some trouble saying
Choo-Choo so he just resorted to
Woo-Woo. Big shin-dig out at the
Country Clith—caught a ghinpse of
Vaughn MeAlister, Jack “lere’s-to-

ya" Blackwood,

Sidney~Pruce, and e

others who rail from our own pack
Saw Bob Millar down in Chocolate
lown-~ sat the couldi’t tind his way
out. Saw bint again this trorning!
and he doesmt seem to he any die
worse for wares.

We enioved Pledec Joe Miller's
parentls visit gy our hunible eating
place. His beauteous ‘sister sorta
foot ‘Joe Neel wheeled it to
Salem for the week-end --that‘s the
opposite direction trom Macon. Jue.

Brother Jim Williamson said that
he got enough of Red Skelton in
the fast world premicre ‘at. the
Davidson Theater. Rad Shaw is
making big plans for his Tallahassee
tip. and Bob McGehee in
SOON i Ati Tor
giving cinner,

Congratulations to kan Coding:
toa_Sor Douglas_ McCoy NUL. yor?
didu't know it this pretty niihii
g0ihg to represent the SAE!
year’s annual, She will add mucho
grace to our section af the book.

Brother Lane Claaninger had two
reviews on one day this past week.
and he wants everxbody to know
about it. One was ohysics. Have
pity on dotted line.
“We all enjoyed

up

45 Thanks

sin thts

having the

Vikas and the Phi Giuns ever for]

a ived Sunday night. Well. that's
all this week: please send alld
your bits of cheese to Igey the Rat,
yours truly.

lor

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Pech quien better.

The playboys of Fi Kappa were
up to their old trick auain this past
week-end leaving the canipus as
soon as possible-and dragging hack
Just in time for Monday: morning
Oh, the life thar slaves of
education do lead. The four-lane
super highways leading out of
Davidson were kept warm by the
“hot-rods" of the boys. Anybody
needing a vehicle of the highest
quality should see Charlie Dockery

Classes,

have

about the “souped up” two-cylinder

_bugey that he shamelessly claims to

be his own.

At least three Pikas could be
counted among the throng at Chapel
Lill last week-end, Bill Collins, Jim
Rodgers, and Dockery being
Present, and accompanied by., lush
niembers of the apposite sex, 1

Ed’ Dennison found last week-end
suitable to go honte.and keep the
wolves away from his gal's door-
step. He has a job doing just that,

too, aww, she will give you a break |-

one of these days, Ed. Joe Shumate,

called the “house-boy” of the nurse's
home of the lresbyterian Hospital
4n Charlotte, he's over there just as
often as it is wise. This past week-
end he was not alone tho’, Pledge
Cuerson and Brother l.oitin saw fit

{6 accompany him. -Ves, a - jolly-
time tas had by all.
Then there was Brother Ensign,

Where he was at is something that
even he would like to know. Your
guess wold be just as good as
mine, if not better, The hamlet of
Charlotte came in for her share of
Vikas over the week-end, ats usual.
Brother's | MeNair’s “lotd”
seen cruising down ‘Tryon St. over
there Saturday vight. Brother Mar-
key visited with his parents for a
nivlit and day, they couldn't stand
him any longer than that at a time.
Viedge Lacy “parked” in the Queen
city Saturday night. Must have run

Was

outol_pas._ledye Lhillips was_last.

scen trying to “snow” a Queen's
treshiman, whatta queen he picked,
too, Keep up the good work. Any
wishing to see the -latest in
men's under pinnings should stop by
Carolina lun and see the fine array
that Pledge Osborne has on display.

one

Whatta—week-end. After running
himself oplum-rageed” against

N.C. State, Brother Grube thritled
a Schick"? trom WC Saturday night,
He wasn't that tired, Congratula-
tions to Brother Mills for being
initiated into Sigma. Upsilon.. His
stories are truly literary mitestones.

The Pikas enjoyed a-social after
vespers Sunday night at the SAE
house. We all enjoyed it niuchly and
it gave us a chance to get to know
Many thanks for

the pet-to-gether,

Word has-just been received that
Brother Snioak in North Wilkes-
hero has become a father of a, 8ix-
pound plus baby boy. Conyratula-

is much more that could
be told about the boys from Pika,
but the price of newsprint just went
up, "so must stop and tet-the type
Writer cool off.

WHATTA WEEK-ENDIIE

_ PI KAPPA PHI

Old “Gander Slander" is on the
job again. Seems like iy ears aren't
what they used to be or everybody
has straightened up and is flying
right. No, 1} take that back, not
quite everyone, | heard rumors that
“Little Auto” (Jim Carr) and the
Erwin drifted over cchout. Statesville
way this week-end. What were you
boys doing over there? Could it be
that you were secking
panionship of the opposite sex?
Why is it that the Moe goes into
Charlotte. avery week-end? What
you. in there Moe?
Quite a few of the boys were seen
knocking around the castern part
of the state. Were the games up
to par boys? Huh? And now a
poem, dedicated to all noble David-
sonians who suffered in the

during “The Week-End”:

found

rain

E remember, yes, I remember
Ere my younger years drifted by,

W lt awas cold then in December

~ And Was warmer in July

In November frosts descended
And.in April there were thaws, ,_

But this moderm weather! Ye gods!

Taint like what it used to was,

Well. since the. big holidays are

in need of some rest, went ‘home to} descending upon us by the hour,

Pulaski fog j a quiet time. Page Jack-

T will leave with this one Parting

son found hisshome town of Gas- | thought—

tonia duly oyer tte week-end. Quot-
ing him, Xdidn’t do nutin’.” The
population .of Statesville. was back
to its notmal over the week-end
with the return. of Jack Fanjoy, Bill
an” Dick Boyd, Joe “Jose” Bell,
-Gordon-Seatiand-Eaa aa

Something must have been doing in}

that town, besiktes the ball game, to
have called all of them home.

—We_-should_run_an_extra, because |.

Ail Cameron's streak~ Of five

straight week- ends in_Greensboro, Eol!

came to a- “Sereec ing halt, ag, he
spent. the past week-end on the
campus with several good- looking

volumes of English. What will ydur |— -

‘girl say, Bill? She'll probably want
a divorce,

rN

No warmth, no cheerfulness,
healthful ease,

N& comfortable feel in any “member.

No. shade, no shine, no butterflies,
no bees,

No fruits, no flowers, no leaves,
nos birds—

i} November

Ca

~ .
Since vo0b a handbook has been

Tssucd annually by tHe Young Men's
Christiaw Association of Davidson

no

+tistration to be filled.

the com-

FEATURES

Operating
perating Table
Last) week-end saw Davidson's Ditus, It might have been that he
“Men of Distinetion.” with bottle} was helped along by some of that
in hand, floating up to the Duke | “weak” punch they were serving at—
Carolina clash. We hear that they] the Pika house. —
were last seen in the crowd during. Ht was rumored that “Bold Look”
the ame, but were outstanding | Mouse Morgan went wild at the
figures in. the post- game festivities. Kappa Sig: yarn session. He was
“Dealer of the Week” awaril goes | seen returning Sunday with his
to illustrions Bill “Pink Cheeks} Miami Cream” convertible, devoid
Bird, Lt that Lird, quote, | ot passengers.
“got everything: (otubis) but sleep” Monty Hill and “the bays" were
anquote, during the week-end. [fe] said to have pitehed a big party up
was accompanied by Jack Hazard [in Greensboro, Hot tea and crackers,
and Charlton Torrence, but it} no doubt.
seemed that they had ‘to’ be cor-
tented th sit back and wateh the
“inaster” work. ‘To look at) Bird
Monday. we must’ say that he had
to work very strénuously at “every-
thing to attain such a worn-out
look.

seems

Will someone please tell us why
Roberts, Ginitignt, Barlitt and Cox
Were angry when the house dick at
Hotel Selwyn asked their young
ladies, to-Jeave. Could it’ be that
they were’ nol conducting them.
selves as upstanding — Christian
Davison gentlemen? Better luck
Next lime, boys!
. dt that

Auyone intefested in forming a
local chapte? 6f Alcoholics Anony-

mous should contact Doug Sowep, “Secs “Tasteful

John

by a ggace: ty is rumored that he| Miller spent a pious week-end oi
nade fphuman sponge” (absortive) | the campus, leading the Phi Delts
that is) of himself down at the] in a revival. Their strongest drink

SAE home at Carolina. They were
afraid to let him: approach an open
flame, sitce he might bave cured
it into a human torel.. He was
helped along ly Wie ‘Faylorm and
some of the Wilmington boys.

The mighty Ted Sunmer was
seen wandering around looking for

was ortnge juice with a shot of
sugar.

This is about all the dirt we could
digs up. Seeing that Flutchinson,
Owens and Gunn

spent a quiet

weck-end, we have no more to re-

port.

Political Angles

By GABRIEL LOWE

vent it, For this reason the Truman
Administration may go down in his-
tory asa failure, and may go on the
record of the Democratic Party as
a-permanent blot-that will-lhurt-the
party's chances for many ‘elections

From a Democratic point of view,
the recent stunning victory at the
polls was not all itcis cracked up
to bé.4or several reasons, the Dém-
ocratie~Party might-have-been-bet-|-
ter off by losing the election. First

it was a distinct victory for labor. Lto come, _

After much of his party had aban- In the third place, the Demo-
doned him, the left wing of the] cratic Varty is hopelessly rent into
party stuck with ‘Truman and won. warring. groups and factions. Ut
This leaves ‘Truman deeply in-) needs time to withdraw to the side-

debted to labor. The result promises
to be a program of liberal lepisia-
tion designed to pay that debt. But
President Truman will have to HO
much farther than that to sate
the ravenous apetites of ‘the Inbor
bosses. There will be many politi-
cal plums to be passed out, There
will be cabinet postg as well as less
couspicuous positions in the Admin-
In short, fdr
its loyal support and tireless efforts.
the labor wing of the Democratic
Party bids fair to take over con-
trol of the party this should hap-
pen there would seemingly be little
place in the party for the conserva-
tive ¢lement—the Southerners and
Westerners.

lines and to reorganize, But so long
as it stays in power it lacks the op-
portunity to effivet this reorganiza-
tion, After sixteen years of con-
tinuous control of American poli-
tics, it has collected a great deal
of dead wood, It needs time to weed
out the hangers-on, the extremists,
and the crackjots. Sixteen years of
constant occupation of the lime-
light have also given the enemies
of the party considerable ammuni-
tion for criticism. Defeat this year
would have forced the party to take
stock of itself, and perhaps to find
a policy of compromise that would
be acceptable to conservative
Southerner and the radical laborite.
It could then have come brick in

1952>"sirong and revitalized.
With

preseut

years will bea difficult time for any
party to be in control. No one ean
say exactly what they may. hold—
depression, inflation, or war. But the
present,signs bode evil. Somewhere,
at some time, the dizzy spiral of in-
flation must end. The government
cannot go on forever subsidizing
and supporting the economic struc-
ture without any foundations. On
the other hand, the spiral, may con-
tinue to go slowly higher, and may

the Democratic Party in
weakened state, how-
ever the election of 1948 may prove
to be is last victory in history. It
might very well crack sunder the
strain of continued leadership and
split into several separate Parties.
1¥48 could very well prove to be to
the Democratic, Party what 1798
to the

its

was Federalist

Party—the
final blaze of glory before its swan

last beyond the next four years’} 50ng.
working immeasurable hardships on a
many. In the field of foreign rela- Basketball was first introduced

tions, there seems little hope of
avoiding war Tour more years, un-
less events take a drastic turn for!
the better. The Administration may
make honest and fervent efforts td
escape these pitfalls. It may do every
thing within its power to stay the
hand of disaster. But Truman will
be remembered for what happened
during his Administration, rather
than, for what he did to try to pre-

to Wavidson College in 1908.
ee
The physical efficiency of the
student is carefully safeguarded at
Davidson as well as the spiritual and
intellectual,

the first Davidson College yell on
record is:

Rah, Rah, Rah, Run, Run, Run,

‘Pink and Blue, Davidson. 6

Davidson Theatre

_ WEEK OF NOVEMBER 29th

MONDAY and TUESDAY

June Bride

Bette Davis — Robert Montgomery
_ WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY

7 | — Key Largo

eee, with is packed with ine

formation and “ood suggestions for

college stuctents.
es

~The practical quality of student

life is nowhere better demonstrated

on’ tht Davidson campus than in|

Pledge Harper Newbold must be | college publigations,

°

Ye

A. Bogart - ‘+ B.-Robinson--Lauren Bacall-—-——

i FRIDAY and SATURDAY

- —Isn’t-Te- Romantic ~~}

Roland Oulver — Veronica Lake

