.

LOC AT

Published tieekly by the: VHCA BOOKS = SYO.03 AD SiO crousn
“iditor Jack P, Etheridge ~~ Or. Chalmers Go Davidson hes
_ announced that the LIBRARY would
fLesietants larry NeLean observe the hours of 10 - 12 A.i..,—
Joe Vance and 2-10 P.!. daily. Librorian

Davidson, Custodia an of the local
__COCastle of Culture, also added that
ne H) ‘Saturday afternoon hours would be
Perhers a word of explanetion until 6-P.li, only. -Books. may—be—_:
of, end introduetion to the YLDCAT checked out at any time that the

is in order here in this, its first library is opens

ézppearance. Tne KOOK SOc will be open

" In theefirst nlace’we desire each day, Jionday through rriday,

for this to be en interesting, in- ‘fron 9:15 to 9:45 A.J”, and from
formative, and nerhaps sometimes . 3200 to 33:45 DM.
humorous publication. It is our hove Sooks for all courses are.

thet you will make it so. Since . availeble here, as are reper; perm \7.
trere are no literary recuirements cils, notebool:s and other school °
to stifle the budding author here, eo.ipment,.

it makes little difference to the
YLOCAT about the what, where, or
wien of a news article, If you've PAwOF, a DUS. VOSMAg TO BUROZE
got a good story, or a bit of news,;
or even a beef about something, we

Fete en Rem ee eee ene oe ae eee ets enero: cnt Ob Oh Lem en earn

we want it, and want it expressed Professor and }'ra. Robert
in the/YLOCAT. o Loehren seiled from Norfolk June 8
The nature of Summer School for -antwerp, and thence to »rance,

is such-that- oftentimes there-ts- where -rrof.—oehren_will_ spend.,some
no opportunity to have announcementsseven wecks in study of the 18th -
made pubdbic. when desired, cr lost Century i'rench organ. During their
books, etc., incuired for. One Of ‘stSy in “turope the Foehren's will—
the chief functions of the YLOC..T visit sever.1 countries, including |
then shall be to serve as e« medium, sngland and Belgium, where Professor
for announcements, lost and found lroehren will give two orgcn recitals.

articles, and things of that nzeture, the intensive study cerried on
The YLDCAT is in great need of by Prof, Noehren is done under a

a fev men who will volunteer to Carnegie Toundation Fellowshin.
serve as typists and to serve on Mir. loehren is considered one of.
the feature staff so that we can the outstending orsanists in the ;
more effectively get the-news "hot: country.  -
off the press", and have it vresen- _  Bi STOR HOURS
ted as neatly and as accurately as In “accordance with its policy
possible, If you find it possible of getting the first news first,
to help please see the editor or the YLOC;:T announces the hours of
Bill T.cLesan. * the Student Store, received in a

: The VLDCAT is finenced and’ private interview. It was reported

sponsored by your CA. It is in- exclusively to this paper thet the.

tended as another student service, Stud-will not be open for business.

and.we urgently desire the benefit od. Sunday. It wilts however’, ace ome
itiel &5 o ‘ . odate it's genteel clientele on e

of your eriticisn and suggestions. _following hours curing the week:

oa 7 === 215 to 1b: EScrshie3—3480—to_6230

eR VESPRRS SULDAY . ond 8s 00 to lls 00 Pl,

CA GARDE _ 1130 Pot, on

—

°
