Coaeh € harley
Parker will take the
wraps off of his 1948-

49 wrestling team
Saturday night ~up
at Hieh Point. The
Cat mentor has four

lettermen back to form

the nueleus of his
squad, Captain Jimmy
“The Dragon” Jung
heads the list of let.

ter withners along
three Bills:
Alexander,
dung will
the 121-

pound class, Last vear

with es-

perman,
Moore,
battle

and

do in

he went undefeated in .

By JACK HAZARD
dual competition and was a strong threat for the Southern

Conference crown until injury forced him
The Dragon took up the game two years ago and went with
record until he hit the family
‘was ousted in the final round,
und barring further injury he should head the seeded list

into this year’s championship serap.

a shoulder, out.

un unseathed tussle where he

This will be Jung’s last year

hosperman, a 145-pounder, has been a Cat worthy for two
veaus and will also be doing his last year’sework for the Red
Black, Though the of

Mesperman has held his own in the “45-pound class

and not ,boasting record the smaller
Aung,
uvainst top-flight competition, The Charlotte serapper should
vo a long way this season,

sill Alexander will have to hit a light diet all vear to keep
Ball?

season to stay in his division except on several occasions when

down under the 175-pound limit, had to skimp all last

wrestlet mnilimited beeause of a knee whieh
yweight Bill A
still has-tw6 more years of wrestling before hin,

he injury put

heas Moore out of action. junior, Alexander
As a green
but
never lost a mateh by being pinned. Small point margins ruled
Under the able tutelage of

Couch Charlie he boosted this mark last year

Le j
Meshman he had a poor mark in the won-lost columns,

him out via the decision route.
though he ‘was
With two vears’

Alex's best

out-of his elass on several occasions.
ence behind him,

experi-
this could be year,
Mor heavyweieht Bill Moore this will-be the second year
As

sidelined the former marine fora good part of last year.

injury
When

school books and wrestling tows are set aside Moore dons the

of collegiate grappling. we noted before, a knee

uniform of a Davidson policeman and has become a familiar
fieu-e around the campus in that role, With his one year of
experience and three more to go, Moore could be a bie winner

ivoest blow to the Cat wrestling corps was the toss of
155 pounder Stubby Evans. Evans entered Davidson last year
with an enviable prep record from Woodberry

Forest and

uphold that record with some of the finest exhibitions of ama
tour wrestling ever seen in Davidson, But it’s all in the past

how because a knee injury has foreed Stubby to give up a

pes bly brilliant wrestling future.

“nother of last year’s worthies will not see action inthe
inauvural at High Point. Mott
ported for practice yet because of a hand injury sustained

Price held down thé?165-pound slot on last

vear’s squad and should be able to step in and take it over

Letterman Price has not re-

foothall season,

again When his injury heals over sufficiently.

To fill the gap left by these two hefties, Coach Parker has
Rice, Dave Whitener and
Bill Plonk are at present waging a red hot battle for the two

three men to choose from, Doug
Pete Brown is another who has been working out
in this elass but The
Who will faee the Pointers will come from the first mentioned

three

positions,

has not yet rounded into shape, two

The return of Price to action will bolster this group.
Rounding out the slate for
neweomers to intercollegiate work,

Saturday's mateh are two more
Johnny Kelton will carry
the Red and Black in the 128-pound group and Paul Husted

136. Both have looked

is slated for action at vood in early
season workouts and have showed promise for future per-
formanees. Husted is a senior, so will have only one year to

his wares, but the smaller Kelton has three in

which to seek honors.

show years

Davidson will field a basketball team this vear which yet
has defied both name and description. This squad will con
«f a group of
vanes With high school teams in the vicinity and with similar

sist varsity football players and is seeking

outfits from other>colleées. North Carolina has had sueh a
team for several years led by Choo-Choo himself. State, Duke

and Wake Forest also have had teams and the Wildcat ag
grecation will complete the Big Five circle which could prob-
ably yroduee a tournament or league of some sort,
Carhborn has been the originator and brains of the out-
fit aid has gained the support of the Athletic Department
for the idea, Coach Dick Reading has agreed to devote some
time in schooling the hefties in the finer points of the cage
game. However, the lineup has'severa! players who have more

than a little talent on the hardwood, Dave Poole heads this
list. Poole lettered as a basketballer at Davidson last. year,
but is ineligible this vear because of a pro-baseball contract.*
Oth o+ experienced men are Jim Sifford, Dave Erwin, Fred
Prey +, Eborn and Carl Sheppard. Color to the outfit will be
provided by such gracefuls as Buddy Chandler, Sandy Car-

‘*Rasy’? Rhodes, Red Wilson and Mae Erwin. Quentin
Cooper will'maniyve the squad and direct the team from the

negie,

bench.

AL’S GRILL

Grade “A” Restaurant
“WHERE YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME!
WESTERN STEAKS — FRIED CHICKEN!

A, |J. Bistony, Prop.
Mooresville, N. C.

Phone 69

,

Wildcat Sports

& riday, December! 3 1948,

THE DAVIDS( NI \N

KS, KA

TRIUMPH

PAGE THREE

DAVIDSON CATS OPEN CAGE SEASON

© Shedding a

shabby armor-suit
HECTIC 1948 GRIDION KS, KA C Cha significant of fall ati football, Da-
La 0- ampions in Greek Foolball vidson’s athletic ablest step into the
spotlight Tuesday night in skivvies
SEASON COMES TO END A BONES ec eurtan NON ele eae eats and sneakers, and under that spot-
- dow v0 one It of the lott inter my by Nrst three ball clubs, | light many believe will be focused
By GORDON SCCTT mara hth sea SOA MSCs Vie In Tuesday's games the Sigs{the highlight of the 1948-49 sports
With the exception of the bowl) burn’s average was 4.70 per try Nappa ; posted tl tories in lued the Tuckles@S TPES by the program on the Vresbyvterian cam-
games and a few games to be play r lift Turner,; who turned in some PUN CUS ML a Trst plies i n inof three first downs] pus,
ed over the country tomorrow, the! mighty good throwing durin: i with the WAS Ww mupleted |to two. Charlton Vorrenee, Phil Ed Three games on next week's card
curtain has fallen on one of foot plus part of the season, passed for | U1?! schedule several weeks ago.) wards, and Charlie Pierson were usher in’ basketball's pre-Christmas
balls greatest years. It has been a} an average of 3.17 yards. Carl Shep ay a UAE Gr ter G50) actatt at (ctl aah ror the winners, Vat) slate Tuesday night the Wildcat ca-
season filled with upsets, one chat j ard has an average of 3.89) y: put oe of the sigmas, the Betas) Clark, Jin Hunter, Jin Herndon] gers tune up with a practice tiff
acterized by powerttl teams with] for 13 attempts, and Diek Richards yes en ae third place, and} ane Zee toll Were virtually the? with the Charlotte Y here, and
players of All-America Calibre in] pitched four times for an averag i ; Phi Delts claim fourth place a ow tor the loser Loss of | Thursday night they open the sea-
nearly every position on the strong-| 2.66 yards, During the course o UieN a. ¢ se blow to the} son here against MeCrary's Eagles,
er elevens, | the season, Cat flingers tossed the The Nappa Sigs posted a record) Sit regatuiot Saturday they travel to Winston-
DaUieane 1018 con or ihed Hall 1O0-tlines with 103 coniplet iy ine Wi teatist a lone defeat Phe Phi Delts keptein the run Salem to meet powerful Hanes Hos-
Wildeats didn't rank nationally J xeod for 1193 yards vhs hve eure Le Seu UN |Meat UNC SD UcGat te UY. cay jiery, the elyb that: tripped N, C
in fact from a standpoint of wins} “The leaders in total offense ACU Steal ‘ puck feats My) Mika sauad two first! State's highly touted Wolfpack ear-
and losses, it wasn't a team which J cluding the State game tor whicl ’ Peo : = au soe Vege ree al iM} PrOMsnson ind} ly this week, 49-38 ?
enjoyed a particuhirly streeessttl { individual statisties are available) 4 ; — 7m : eB | att Sarees s fang Aside from Norman Shepard and
season. However, in spite of the, are Lambeth with 574 vards, Ery n| us LANs eee ee teed (Continued On Page Four) charges, the opinion prevails here-
outcome ot the games, the team! with 349 yards whicl tbouts that 1048-49 edition of
amiissed some very impressive sta-}gained on the ground Sittord w _ INTRODUCIN’ . the Cat bast will be one
tistics that will bear checking on! 259 yards, Wade, 250 yards, fof their fin tur years and one that
HOW (HAL The eedeOte oer: durton, 25a. yards," Shepard: 20 DAN McKEITHEN niGatT ord last season.| Wil mark the Davidsonians as a
In the rushing department, the; yards, and Vurner, 203) yard \\ he ‘48 ll ason If there in win cho Bud j real power on the Southern Con-
AGAtS Banreled totnlol lilG vardssieiiente “Anderton outed {iit ad} this Wothe pa © old dy is weak neith folfowers nor |e Leee court
Pop ground gamer was the plang: | for an averave of 35.0 vards fo ce] tossing= a bill tha ‘ i Pponent ce detected it vet led by co-captains Vuddy Cheek
ing fullback, Mac Erwin who bulled | season, His best averace for om in y Comte Inte He was choser e 47-48 -All-Sou- |’ 1 Mike Willianis, Shepard's club
his way for an impressive 349 yards | came was against the Kavdet er anyone thit hen Conference team, and in speak headed up with ten returnees
i TOS: tries: for an) avenige of SIZ Wo Ni L. aulien le toed the bal round David ye cate ly ding of the co season one won| MoM list year’s, varsity. Gone are
yards per try.’ Carl Pahl, alternate | y frente a0 SOs ceri | i} Ot eNt eed tion eda feline blest Clreek—to| Dick Mills and Lewis Bingham, and
faltbaekoctias cai maveraue it 74 ANE EN NETE STS ETT TORT REY BSTTUTTRS Chin FAGAN Destials ean HIE INTORETTOTN Pav Poole 4s ineligiptes “The pes-=
yards for 29.tries. Top honor ingthis beat eleven during the pa j However, the degd \ WO ETA RET ee ee eS NNN tie Shepard, who truthfully as-
departinent goes to little Jake Wade,| wore Muda Cheek who pulle end on the gridivos t \V team page mulda’t hold atl {sents that Southern Conference bas-
tlie. Clianloltes ewitty, aviio carried | 1echance (ar Renee RoVoraoltaneenNtt f aRailk are tay nae all will be stronger than it has
the ball oe tinies 10m Al averaee Onl Nile wetliniie. Who’ eA | ato turnin ' tobe men that at present | Pee an many winters, admits that
4.65" yards. Close on his heels are | throws which covered 162 ] lore casily 4 ‘ ee ( the Prec voANdvi nd al + Wildeats will have more speed
Carl Shepard, danky speed-metr | lim Siffofd, who oathered ino | Catching wa p ‘ emb t] Py elu d CAD s Nis 1947-480 eres n won
chant from Gastonia who conipiled| es for a total of 183 vards. a cl Ts Onteeo eet \ MRM se i ty. He won the W of 28 games and fourth
an average of 4.27 yards and Halt-| price, who took 5 pa ‘ wnt in e OM te olar- {| the conferes 1 State,
back Jin Sifford, the Albemarle} Ca. halt of (Davidson's tet ' onsiste civer ! \ ‘ back and ‘last S01 Washington and Carolina,
CANIM AUHO Hits, any aNcnaBe ON elle ye ae eye | ‘ \\ Wil pra ed the Agnes : heck, ME-Southern Conference,
yards in 33 times lugging the pig ane ive tesmllcare nhekte Glial | | ( ed==to;l Sentil Award. annually | (O48, and second hi scorer in the
skin. Pwo other backs that deserve Hane Mato tNAT Eu TICee ei earic : ) the goal lint to ring ( bonne , f the three up Jeon cee in average of 13.7
mention for their rushing are Cliff Ste eon Willinine tie ral ip 24 point ichatedd team scot ( \ hows the most /Pouts per ; hould have his
Furner who turned in an average tireccpaacce rool: fer toutlidowie he os the al ite ball teat 7 pre ‘ cinent and service | best year ENCE Selma, Ala, pre-
of 3.34 yards per try and Bert An- an 1k ainite Mote erie tas 6 he received honorable tion, Nn enfield; and the Vous Re [3 ed senior will serve as jump man,
derton who ended his last year of ay reas position whieh would have been} tus Trophy, given for best typify. | but will rove the court as guard.
college football with an eran of yeu MEUM NMC Ueto ax higher had the Wildeats had a bet 1 Mie davidson spirit, be iris be [Cheek 's remarkablh rebound ability
Dav viride pen cw beautiful running catch made against oe oe , : 7 ined by OIDK, At this point jand drive for the basket stamp him
} : VOM. 1. Fullback Erwin sinashed ‘ penne lol Nain | f fea
Strange as it may seem, three fust the faet that he dit the ba men yoand ask; “Is there | beady as a favorite to repear his
: ¢ his way through the dine for re 4 1 f : : Fane
Wildcat passers rank above David Maite anda Ont miuener Holle 1g} ket last year for $70 points woule | an M doesn't d H-conterence honors this year
son's much discussed passing star,} oso ae Nievtatal be enough to amake him a marked Phe modest Buddw says that he Co-eaptain Mike will again be the
Nuburn <Lanibeth, in total average Bere eet Cet man in basketball cireles, but Pud- | has been Tett out in the women. de [cath behind “the show. Officially,
Tae TONE IRM THO Uo“ En With the exeeption of the SASS er prams pa mea ees recta Fareat deal | partinent, but tt venerally known | the North Wilkesboro lank will be
Jake Wade who pitehed for an ay and MoM.L. games, the Wildeats more, Possessor Gf a beautiful ba that he intends to fight otf ‘all his | Jisted as center this year, but he'll
erage of 7.77 yards, Bert Anderton looked good a UG TBMUTO tes BUC TE ait uidectes pounds proportion Jenstlestibeis bee satheby jhe allover the court Mike is deti-
Whp averaged 7,02 yards by passing, NV Me Tndinnsdetented: tye: lo ed nicely on a wellecoordinated Gf through medical school Dy the jnitely one of the outstanding ball
And ‘Jim Sifford who has an aver- cals on’ two long passe iy th it. 3 ineh frame, he displays a fast Lhe isa pre-med student on the | hinders in the Sothern Conference
ave of 541. However, far be it from [Pale with Wofford, W. & 1 nn Hoor game and tas a fiery competi ide, Some ot the lab-dweller have | and in dedition (tootinging, the bas:
this writer to take away any of the Richmond, the win could have gon live spirit usually -eharactistie of | been wondering date in the evening, ket bell with deadly regularity, Mike
glory due the Decatur, Georgia, po the: "Grts eect fouseveral id mall players. Under the bag Keboared How does Budd Cheek do it all [aces up the Cat play- patterns.
passing whiz-kid, Lambeth, An ex- breaks, and failure to capitalize: on the lanky star shows springs in hi Mithough he ts finishing his school | Vinee” other seniors who. will
amination of statistics shows that breaks: of their own, Vollowing ‘the legs, pulling in many a rebound, |e here nest spring; students, fac [ake the Wildeat’ wheels roll) on
Ae ROW OHO ER TETIVBSTIAICe TET Wofford) game, it) looked like a Ae well ag helaFATTA ONS hie EliGot Sa Becsbos al mnicwill lone remem=| {ve hardwood are Dill Iverson, J.
every one time that the next closest UC en pAlecli sae ie ed well from either inside. or outside; ber Ce (sian) invton Cheek as | Pe He Hob Mean ds 1),
passer threw, and his total passing and Black; und aah zat a Ou LG and when he misses from anywhere | all i notverily as an ath | the Greenvill : product who
yardage was 554 as compared to the Bore WC UInUE And he Pass sug under the boards it Gs usually he (ete NE asa Sthilent, tend: wie) aie neatly Canes IntO! Wis ONnth
combined total of 466 yards of the | Pulled themselves together and dis-] cause of a foul. In the free a | wentleman ho _typities the true] the “Southern Conference tougna-
three aforementioned hurlers. Au-[ played a good brand of football, department he is unexcelled mal piritvofl a Da OU SMaN (Continued On Page Four)
4 Ba
\ \
\

MOKE Camels for 30 days ... it’s
revealing — and it’s fun to learn
for yourself. :

Let YOUR OWN _ THROAT tell
you the wonderful story of Camel's
cool, cool mildness. Let YOUR
OWN_TASTE tell you about the
rich, full flavor of Camel's~choice
tobaccos—so carefully aged and
expertly blended.

NO THROAT IRRITATION |
_ due to smoking CAMELS!

tore

Money-Back Guarantee!

Try Camels and test them as you smoke them. If, at any time,
you are not convinced that Camels are the mildest cigarette
you ever smoked, return the package with the unused Camels
and we will refund its full purchase price, plus postage.
(Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem,
North Carolina,

ee

Aa OM OM KOR ORR

sere onclbe Societe

+

*

PEN TIR CRE
rerio elie cr

.

&
‘4
ee
4]
ee
4

en's

Se ae ge ae a

p20 5 aa Oe Or KO 8 Kw HK

‘sate ottesttcaatrates toe

Moke the Carel 30 Day Test_-PRO

WW your" Jone!

In a recent national test,
hundreds of men and women
smoked Camels, and only
Camels, for thirty consecutive
days—an average of 1 to 2 packs
‘a day. Noted throat specialists
examined the throats of these
smokers every week (a total of
2470 examinations) and reported

According to a Nationwide survey:

MORE DOCTORS
SMOKE CAMELS THAN ANY
OTHER CIGARETTE

Doctors smoké for pleasure, too! And when
three leading independent research organiza-
tions asked 113,597 doctors what cigarette they
smoked, the brand named most was Cainell

