‘Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

o

_ Friday, February 13, 1948

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Monnded by The Clasa of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

im

PURIISHERD WREKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE: YEAR

SAM ERVEN,. ‘ Iditor-in-Chiel

Bok CHIN 2.222: Iusiness Miunager

eS
EDITORIAT, STAFF .

. Associate Kditor

Bob inklips:

Mac Varta eee ~ Sports Editor
Watter Mann Managing Editor
Stan Keniett - Managing [editor
Bill Calhoun Managing H.ditor
Kounie Pietrich Manazing [Editor
Rees Jenkins — _ Columnist
Malloy Owens _ Columnist

Jolin Stewart. . Staff Uhotographer

Klusd Mele Assistant Photographer
Beature Reporters ; Bob Hollister, Lonnie Turnip-
Shee ‘ i_Diutiuse. rice Kendall,
Bil Bogare, Chia tes i Dotvas. Bob Wells, Art Jen-,
kins,
Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Mall, Randy Taylor,
Warten Sims. Ubu Mairchell, Bill Hollister, Scott
Verner, Grae Vee pton, Prank Purnell, Yom Blipse.
Kenneth lores, fin’ Murray, lin Larkin, !eonard

Boswell. John Cosby, Dave Llayworth, Hugh Evans,

Var Mle Geachy,

Sports Staff: Frank Aldred, Cherry

Jack Tlazard,

ibling. Watt lellries, [itl Cassels, Doug Hix, Bill
Kexan,

Serb
® we Gene Furman Warlick.

Dich Morgan,

BUSINESS STAFF
~ Assistant Business Manager
. Advertising Manager
_. Circulation Manager
_ Subscriptions Manager
‘ Collections Manager
Mer,

wlolin’ ADNNaire
Charlie Ral 22
liank Leminon —.
“hall ob

Baater oY...
Charles Dockery\._.
Chantes Clinkscalex_

Assistant Advertising

Wilkes Macauley Assistant Advertising Mgr.
tH. Iulron 2-222. Assistant Circulation Mgr.,
ail Keith 2202} Assistant Circulation Mer.
Sandy Sprunt.. _ Assistant Circulation Mgr.
Bob Knight —.. Assistant Subscriptions Mer.
Charles Beam 2. Assistant Collections Mgr.

‘Advertising Staff
. Faison, Claude Higginbotham,

Uf. Mac lNethan,
Kelley, Gene ‘Taylor, W. 5,

D, tlayworth, Tiaine
MeSwain.
“ . Circulation Staff
_LPank Githery, Bill Gas-« John Coble, Garl Her-
man, Jim—lzisher, -
Bowen, Frwin Chath,

Kav Cunningham, Bill Mebane.

* the Post Office at
wt of March 3, 1997,

Entered gs arcond-rfisa
Davidson, North Carulina.

hiatler
under the

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. St50 the Collegiate year

: . ’
REPAGEENTEO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTIBING OF

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 Mapison_ Ave. New York, N.Y.
Caicaaco - Bostow - LOS ANGELES + San FRANciscO

1946 NMember 1947

Associated Collegiate Press .
ot __Distributor-of —

Collegiate Digest

_Chapel Conduct

Articles written by a tanher of THE
DAVIDSONIAN'S  colinanists — ins recent
weeks Adve inadg @. elear (iar saine students
ureceoueerued ahont the frequent and un-
“ealled for disturhauees witieh oceur during
vur chapel devotional periods. and well they
should be, In spite of these. articles and the
efforts of the faeatry and student leaders,
there has been little evidence of improve-
anent.

No one is of the opiuion that these dis-
plays are aolivaced by any couscious desire
-- they result cather from uothing wore than
_ simple tHoitgitlessuiess, Nevertheless these
“outbursis oT noise do effeetively rob the
devotional period of its reverent atmosphere
‘aud destroy its meaning aud value. bn addi-
tion they eredie a definite “bad impression’
ol the. Davidson studeut body in the minds

ot aitvisiting speakers and guests.

The Taealfy, the trustees, and the ad-
winistration of the coltege have always he-
lieved that brief daily devotional periods
have a marked effeet for good on each and
.every Student. Olierwise attendance would
not be required. Now, however, some feel
That it would be better to discontinue the
prictiee rather than allow these services to -
be conducted in such an atmosphere, The

Bab_ See -luimy Rogers, Ted

_ Lhe DAVIDSONIAN Presents

EDITORIALS .

members of the ‘‘infatuated with the sound
of our own words”’ clan will soon be shamed *
into silence. This may be a slow method, but

it is also a sure one. Few want to vomit
acts which they know to be unpopular with |
their fellow students, and though some may.
be slow to react to this particular treatment,
the light will dawn eventually even in the
darkest eraniums.

No one, of course, is seeking to muffle
the student body. There is plenty of time at
the conclusion of the program in whieh all
can give vent to their opinions and desires.
Tn fact the Tiibsday and Thursday chapel |
periods are set aside almost entirely for that
very purpose. Before and during devotion-
als it is a different matter, however. It
should not be necbssary to caution.us to be
polite and to remhin reasonably still while
some guest speaker is seeking to help uso
better understand some phase of life—we
should do such things voluntarily. Lf not be.
cause we personally hope to benefit front
listening to what ‘our speaker has to say:
at least because we are gentlemen and re-
spect the rights of others who may be seek-
ing to listen attentively. It will only take a
little effort and thought on the part of each
to eradicate this problem.

Letters to the ~
Editor .

Dear Editor:

a One:of the most pressing problems at

Davidson is the lack of time in which to
tinish all activities. Rveryone who stays here,
any length of time. soon learns ‘that there
always seems to be more to, be accomplished
then ean be done in any ofe.24-hour perind.

The college has endeavored to meet this
situation in several wriys. First, no man may
hold more student body offices than the
point system allows, thus partiolly assuring
that too much of a burden will not fal) to
one man. Secondly, tlie college opeiis the.
library at night, thus insuring the student
of ample access to the materials needed for
study. Thirdly, the college sows -student?.
to check out from the library books needed
for study thus enabling ‘the stuclent-tautitize—
the materials needed for study, which are in
‘the lib¥ary at any time he desires.

It would seem that tle college makes
considerable effort-to insure thé student “of
having plenty of time to Sttdy by insuring
aecess to materials and references needled.
However, in one major instance, this con-
clusion is fallacious. The college opens the
library at night so that the student who
has twenty hours of required reading a week
will have plenty of time in which to accom-
plish it. The college does not. however, make
a like provision for the student who has
twenty hours of required laboratory work a
week. Of course, the schedule does not in-
dicate that anvone will ever have that much
laboratory work a week and likewise there
is no meution of required reading in the of-
ficial schedtile.

There is one valid objection to openiag
a laboratory eat night—the danger of the
work involved and the lack of qualified
supervisors. Still if the college ean afford
librarians at night one might surmise that
competent advanced students would not be
beyond the financial capacity for the
positions of night laboratory assistants.

lt alls down_to_one point. The—

TWernge stadent no donbt oftea grumbles
about having to uttend chapel bnt few would
after sobor reflection ask that it be abolished.
As nneh as many of us hate to admit it, we_
have ad least in -sowe sell way benefitted
from these Mible readings and the longer

less frequent taiks on spiritual topies. q

Ts, then being the case, what ean be
done? Actually for once the solution is quite,
_Simple, AS has: been intimated before, the
aclions is . forgetfulness, All of us “have
taken part in then always withont think-
ing. Some regret having done so afterward—
Others never. rive it a thought, and as a
result. go on giving repeat performances day
‘after ‘day? No one éxpéets you to report
thronie offenders Lo the Dean or to the stu- |
den council, and no one expeets you to ad-
minister verbal lashings to those who fail to
keep quiel—yon are expected, however, to
sec to it that you personally take uo part in
the cisturbances. La majority of the students
lionestly esire to see chapel services con-
dueted, and in a. proper atanosphere, and if
“those, students conduct themselves at. all
times in a way which will make this possible,

the would-be comics, clowns and chronic
a

77

liberal arts student can arrange. his sched-

ule so thai he may visit the library at prac-
tically any time, night or day, which best
suits him, individually, while the science
student with laboratory work comparable to.
reading assignments must ‘perforce do this
this work between the hours of 1 to 6 p. m.
on -~week days. This indicates a disparity be-
tween the degree of freedom possessed by
th liberal arts student as opposed to the
science, with the advantage all in favor of
the stndent of liberal arts.

Science Building is closed at 6 p. m. daily
and also will continue to place the science

major at a disadvantage in many ways.
—R. B. D.

The world craves peace that passeth all
misunderstanding,

Nobody ever forgets where he buried the
been ‘amateurs.—Haveloelt Ellis.

Worry is interest paid on trouble before
it comes due.——Dean Inge. — ,

Counting time is not so important as
making time.—J. J. Walker.

—

LETTERS
Alenda Lux

By BOB PHILLIPS

The following paragraphs are ex- that amone thee are life, Tilerty
tracts from a~recent news story, fand Che porsunt ob tiappmess 7
released ‘by the- Associated Press} 7 Perhap
and presumably appearing-in all na- bem
tional newspapers, of any couse:
quence:

“JACKSON,

Shouting rebel

there I~ ap worl ASY ron
in om proud of the Sauth-
land Gin which Oe Tenet), bat
is traagression in aur isola.
hiven

: there
Miss. (AP) —
yells and waving
the Confederate . flay.7 Mississippi
Demnocrats met yeolerday
spearhead a tion wide_. revoll
against their party's teadership .. -

tiotism and catuplitccney.
“enlig fiiened
whats Common
ty referred to down here - Van
Now tor jut a mo:

a nottheriuee

nlost a outherders

somewhat resent

here to ay

hee uicddding

Heit imagine soursell

“Atter singing “Dixie” the group oe bois imtere ted in the wellive ot
backed a resolution for the con: | iumanity Gret parteukirty aoedienn
ference of Call true white Jeffer humanity, noc sonthern hamanity

“FEATUR

KEY TO OUR SYSTEM
America notonly owes if to man-
kind 19 give the work! ous systeut
of deme¥tatic federation for frée-
dom and peace, bit al.vto give the
the key to the suc-
Cess of our system,

workloour faith,

Democratic federation has
worked with such spectacular
sucerss here because of the
Ghristian citizens who have
been the-backbone of our coun.
try. “ft will\not work without .
such citizens. ‘The idea is the
product of pure Christianity, as

Think It Over

By MALLOY OWEN

é

ES

ye ‘\prongs Separated from their
baiee they die:

The world sorely needs our
system, but if we do not also
introduce them to our Christ,
we can expect their democratic
federation to fail. France has
tried democracy, but the low
morality of her people, typical
of Roman C ajtholic and
atheistic countries, has resulted
in its repeated corruption and
failure. —

The machinery of government
and economics we have set up is

sonian Democrat..’ | iust-hurmanity). You pick upset) represented since the Reforma- oe .
“They thereby heeded whe call of fataily paper and-you cea af the tion in Protestantism. the hes, but it will not run ii cut
their governor, Fielding L. Wright. {above inciduat, or of a similar one off from its source oF power,
lor action against the Vemocratic| nai Gt the several Southirn| = The teachings of Christ about CHRISTIAN MINORITY
Party's sponsorship of nivasures | States. Micht ven not be righteow, | the supreme worth of the ine tut Christians are a minority
which die- termed ‘anti-Southern’ [ty indicnant, even to the paint or} dividual Ais perfect example of feven in America today. Our
such as anti-lynching, anti-poll ax, {"imeddlaig. i arder to inure that [high morality, the Sermon on the] rotestant churches have been on
and FEC bills.” ~[ldc tberty and the pursan on hap | Mount which those, who accept}a spree away from the Bible. We
Ate these the stagdsons and | piit be protected aX ave inherenr | Him ascpercoial savior try to fol-]are returning from this spree to
greal grandsons of the noble Arsiy | and iialiciihie sei or all peopde™ low: are the source fran whieh | find that our nattonal moralic? has
of the South, uf which- we are ib | Possibly wee Southerners would | eur ideale of -treedwm and democ- (Continued on Page Six) _
partgjistly prouds Mhey_inustabe, | work. more snadiar ameSonth awe) + -
tor read what: they do—they vent} tle Xevth, and for niantand ia peu ° . —
the rebel yell, they wave the Stars Petalrfi we were to divert the wrath Operating Table
and Hars, aml theg sing “Pie” to fwe reserve or cthemy carpers .°
the accompaniment of their political gern” toward tho e ; Jew bat Secing Ghe ver artistic painting, girls caught holding hands between
maneuvers. Flow inspiking ! Surely | peirerous — scaithern bigot wld aayy by some sly wit on the front} dances. Evidentlythe didu't want to
aur revered Robert. ky Lee, p bring upon our heads the OMeM Tate ot die farm, renninds us that] be lgh scorer for the evening.
Chystian geutleman what het was, | lustified accusation of inhumamty. [op i. aheut time ta sinele out the DOUBLE DIP and MAROON
could Wilness the workings of these The > Soutitl= latin “tobe the] Ccight ball beys aya, Ahhough LONG raced down to Converse,
urrent Southern lealees, We Weal) United States® torte ot Chriss fwe cannot pinta -negestive an uaa ebattle_and deployed-—to—the
-votrkh swell with pnde. Pian. Perhaps ary par what vood [idea as ahis mural we ean perhaps | Smokies around ‘Tryon. Fearing
Almost in the same breath, these | is a Cottress. nie Ine Loby oldiers fdestroy soaie Ot anany people's ambush there, they took refuge with
uphalders of the old southern clarm | who oretase tal net an enemy” pauonvinity. Cn the black-list;-wef TOM SMIUUHL in’ Greer which is
heat their breast. “proutlls cand he | Meet ue are tog eontent and too? see Tina. prominent, semi-promi-] somewhere in the tundra. UNCLE
bel themselves “true white Jeiier- | comple veut to ail cue hands a bit nent, cand pseudasprominent char-| DAVE BLEVINS could probably
sonian Democrats,” while decrying | by.-coming ta grips wath fouled Pactars, o dbheatoup, i atl comes te} tell you about “them thar hills”
measures which would dntlaw their polities; aianay of us are even 30 ine] aust ose tany guys behind the | from where he originated, if he is
sacred rights oLlynching and racial [different a) te foreica Mie sinters proverbial Jalliagd ball Paw then, E [not too busy polishing up his Hew
discrimination. How many of these pwanitary attack ot voung. Uaa lew itint the readerswill agPte, this is | title. Ves, the girls over at the insti-
political opportunisis, do you sup- | start sears we ind our collewiagte (Leiter than. no balls at all. ition at Charlotte put him in as
pos, even knew that the founder of | contemporaries: WHE be votint: and Pina jthe tabulations what have | King of the Mardi Gras? LIAM
Jetfersonian democracy Wwrore the [oervingy in efy,--tale and national come in, it apphars that many of f FUPERSON says that HIE was
lines, *We hold thes® truths to be | povernment . Whon awilt we have Pour illustrions classmates spent the} THE JOKER, if anybody. cares to
self-evident: that all oinen. are] to tend tuys God-fearing Lees and weel: end at honw for a change-| know. From this, you may be able
created equal: that they are ene [fetter ons or rabble rousing Pilbor | this, no doubt, was an excellent | to gather that... Queens — College-
dowed by their Créastor wilt cae aid Cones? Ee Tap oT YOu | GPportunity As strike up an ac-] threw one of their lovely dances
tain inherent and indicnable rights: | knew. quaintance with the family, and {the past week-end. Che main thing
=. press foc funds. ketired  bditor/is 1a wateh out for curved balls,.
RL. alas POY PABST, | which are often thrown,
R Wi th R nunaped to drive THE GEL TLE IEven those who mourn the loss
oaming I onny io Laurinbure, accompanied by} of gossip-wise DIRTY GROG
KENNET ITE MeARN, -ex-virgin {| cannot but see the hydia-like

By RONNY DIETRICK

oon

MORGAN and others. There are

growth of another alike in one par-

—In February,-1903, there-vecurred-Find pomibis iacking an—cemlership f-otue—who eure ae PLEL | ticular, at least, G.. EE. was locally.
an incident or tather a series of [as well.as a bit of class spirit of fehange the name of his car from notorious for missing the meeting
incidents since known as the Fresh-} the be-t sort, ‘Che nicu on small} Gb EVs to SCA KAR. continually, butt. things-po-is they
tan Rebellion of 1903, “The tile {=tatue Dent on trolic, tun and Ou to ttiekory, PILLTIONS | tave, THELOPRENCH ONE will
of this rebellion makes some ort treching” ‘seemed to predominte. fel INE SWAIN MeSWAIN and[ have him beat by a good margin.
Most interesting reading in all the | “This situation invited trouble | wtomobile were happy—to: report | How do they do it? It must be part_
histary—ot—-Davidson, which. upon brewing for’ several} that imps were still na closer | of the cult secret.

Instead of presenting _a_ redone | months, came. to an Wssue on’ the) than Charlot SAMMY TATE | Phe reader is due an explanation
and stilted version of the entire af- | night of the Sophomore Banquet, in fand UTHER BIG BLOF toured] of what happened ta the column
fair 1 choose to quote, in its en- | February, 1903. (The Sophomore { throush country to the country] last week. After scraping together>
tirety, an account written by a] banquet wa. ané Gr the more int | from the conntrs fora week-end of fas nich dirt as possible, the prin-

portant social events of the vear,}
While the
ing the Breshinen
mos, impreanable

member of the Freshman Class of
1903, Mr. F. 1. Jackson; treasurer
of the college. Mr. Jackson proba-
bly wrote this account of the story
about 1915, 16, or -17.-At any: rate-
it is probably the: oldest and cer-
tainly the most “accurate account

Sophomores were feast
were arranging

barrnicadé up-

a

Spence House, standing acrifss tie

stveet front Vrotesson Nochren’s,

extant, which deals with this in- [was used at that ume to house the
cident. Consequently, here is the] overflow of the abnorinally large
entire story as told by Mr. Jack-}| Freshman Class, The _“Sophs”
son: found the. gate oniside their ieast:

hall wired shut, the tront door of
Chambers. the only dormitory_on
the campus, barred. (Mr. Jack-on
tell ie thar the only the
doors to id Chambers were ever
barred or even—cldsed, the
summer tine to keep the eats oul).
Their rooms had been roughed. .+

“Soon after Dr. Smith (Henry
Louis Smith) became president he
‘nstituted a vigorous campaign for
a larger number of students, By
speeches and by writing he im-
pressed upon the young men of
the church = (Presbyterian, — of
course) the advantages of a college
education, The class of 1906 thus “AL paddling’ ~ atid blocking”
assembled in the fall of 1906 as the | (blocking was a term signiiving the
-result—of—Dr. -Smith?s -labors —was- -applieation—of—a—el mreodakkerouscne
hy far the largest class in the his-} mixture to the badies of — reealci-
tory of the college. and was conte, trant. freslumen} expedition would
posed of men more mature, on the} probably have “been the order of
average, than the regular college} the day (by the Sophamaces, na-
boy of that day. It so happened, | turally) without. a provoking cause,
also, that thé Sopliomore class of} but this was the ‘red ‘flag int the
that yeae® was numerically  simall (Continiied on Page Five),

; ~The Poll- cat

tne

Waa in

1. If Southern Conference ru ings remain unchanged,
what policy do you think Davidson College should take to-

his-situation will ebtain as-tong-as the~|—ward financial subsidies for outstanding athletes?

Full Partial ,
Scholarships Scholarships
Very. Large (Tuition | (Present No
Subsidies Board, etc.) Policy) Subsidies
Students _. 12 pect. 54 pet. 32 pet.
Faculty and
Administration — 60 pet. 35 pet. 5 pet

2. Who do you think is Davidson's most valuable
— athlete?

George (Buddy) Cheek __..

First Choice

reattul reposc.
still avent

How he reposed and
is beyond us.
Maybe he hd both, and at the same
are. SNA the ane for trighs.

lo Saleta

is

stairs at Uke SSpence bonset-CFhe|-bh hao hidderrarp biessteever FSONTAN,

and a few extras up his pants leg

Going-into the hinterlands, EVID
ELLIOTT crashed) head into a
Fassifern dance ‘tlie matron-in-
charge was all too happy to see him

as they needed stags for the gals.
EVIL staguereddaround for awhile,

and then fled when he learned that
Uhere were twenty demerits jer the

te
>

Paging the Professors

By Stan
PROF. PUCK ETT ,

J

‘ter had already set the ipe for
this page. Naturally, there was a
loud yelk put up by paying sub-
scribérs to THE DAVID-

Gut the omission was
unavoidable."And if your name is
romiitted from these lines, do not feel
that this will happen next week.
Just write this column in care of
the EDITOR, stating in not less
than 3,000 words what information
ie have, and enclose the masthead
of 200 ‘issues.

Kennett

dsumnge=the—verent war one" ot
Davidson's profussora_was_in_an
extremely we ual work, This was
Dr. Muckéu of the Biology bepart-
tnent. br. ;
confidential

Puckett was engaged in
research, investigating
wounds. This
between the
Aberdeen Proving Grounds and his
laboratory at [rinceton University.
“Dr. -Puckeu came to-Bavidson as
a professor im 919 trom _Lrinceton
where he receivedshieHh- 1, and
frad~tanghat caine leven years.
\ oxraduate of Davidson, lvotessor
Vue Z South teen—foe
it year after receiving his master's
degree at the University of North
Carolina.

rake
was conducted

how hultets

.
work

ior

_ Upon returning to Davidson, Dr.’
Puckett ‘observed that Davidson
students on the whole hate -poten-
Halitigs equal to Uiose of men in
eastern universities, but thar the
preparation petore. college is in-
ferior. Neveftheless, Dr. Putkett
has found thaf Davidson gradnates
super(ar reputation in all
the graduate schdols, and are recog-
nized for social and academic
ability. —

Dr.

guioy at

Puckett’s interests outside

Whit Cobb _..___. -- Runner-up _
Mike Williams -__. wane - Honorable Mention

[the <lass*rdom range from high

scholastie ~- rieties to a great in-

terest gu sports; he seldom misses _
‘an athletic contest of any sort here.

-Hwisa_member of-Sigma Chi fra-—
ternilty, the Ametican’ Agsociation

of fuaoigists, and the American

Saciety Zoologists. During the

Past. lew years he published some

forty scientific papers, as well as*
following interests in photography,

farming and gardening.

- PROF, McGAVOCK ————

Dr, McGavock, of the Math De-_
partmient, was graduated from
Davidson in 1930 and returned in -
1934 as avprofessor. During the
interim, he bad taught _in_two—pre—
paratory schools, Hughes Military-
Academy and Morgan School. Dr.
McGavock earned his masters and
dacjor’s degrees at Duke Univer-
sity, the latter of which was in
199, :

As Davidson's outstanding fea-
ture-Dr. McGavock calls attention
lofthe faculty-student relationship,
one of friendship~ahd comradeship.

Bridge and golf are down the
.list_of Dr._MeGavock's—hobbies;
While chess and bricklaying are on
tov., At present Dr. McGavock is
building a brick wall, of which he
is quite proud, at,his home. Also
currently, he.is playing in a national
postal chess tournament, having
reached the finals at this time.

