gt rem

Friday, February 27, 1948

~ (THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Five

society Plans
Varied Summer
For Students

|

PHILADEL PHA BIT
ean Friend
sponsor t ( nt
ice projects 4
this sur ér, Clares i
executive eereia
tee; annotineed— toca

They range int
ing war-devastated ce ties it
Europe to studying cooperat
St.5 Paul, Minnesota, rea
from every section of 4 United
States to Mexico, Purope an
Scotia

Mr. Pickett estimated 1 n
opportunitie los approxim tlely SOO
college students to parti te in
the Service Committee’ college
program. Unlimited miniber t\
attend—the 12 _Ta-tinite- ot Hiterna
tional Kelations

Helping to rebuil t t
devastated Maine
building a hostel for A can In
dia’ i’ Puba City, At na, build
ims COMMUNITY Cente 1 ce
nities in the southern | inds ai
outheast Missour Porepai
chool facilities tor ta mall oe
lepes in West Virei ind) Nort
Carolina. will be some of the job
which work campers will unde
take. They will aleo help develop |
recreation programs in Tlowland,
Me., Detroit and Chicago

Members of the Cuaker Inter
national Voluntary Serviee team
will Welp reconstruct” liomes and
conminity biildings in Atwstrig,
Hungary, Ttaly,® Voland and the
American zone of Germany, laure
pean organization will ponser
similar camps in Finland, Pelyiam,
Holland, France, kneland, Switzer
Jand and Germany \inerican
Wishing to participate ino any ot
thiwse camp howd apply through
the Service Committee

Young nien and women will aid
in climes and educational program
in six’ Mexican conmmunities. There
will be Spanish study for college
credit in one of the Messean
project

In institutional servige units stu
dents work as attendatits in mental
hospitals or correctional institu
tions. ‘Vhey receive the regular
salary and attend a*course of lec-
tures at the same time,

Vhose interested in- industrial 1
lations may join the Interne-ip-Ln-

dustry project in Vhiladelphia, In-
ternes “are responsible for) findings
their own jobs in industry, They
live cooperatively together and
participate. in-an—edeational pre
gram of lectures, dsicussion period
and field trips.
Interne-in-Cooperatives project
will be sponsored ine St. Paul,
Minn, and Cape Preton, Nova
Scotia, As in Interne-in-Industry,

actual work is supplemented by an
educational program, Income ot the
internes ji living «

for-‘the group

pooled to pay

pense
Problems of international co
operation and peace will be titdical
in international eryvice emiunar
and institutes of international: rela
tions. In both these projects, well
known authorities on international
affairs are available as faculty mem
bers, discussion leader and ad
visers, Institute conducted main
ly for those whose time 1 limited,
last for about. ten day Seminar
last for seven weeks and are held
for collect tudent

primarily

At Davidson ©

Bob
‘ Millar

smokes

CHESTERFIELDS

Bob Says;
“T have tried many different
but ©hes;

brands of cigarettes

terfields are my brand now be-
cause they really satisfy smoking
wants.”

Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the

largest selling cigarette in
America’s colleges) (by nation-

wide survey).

Carolina Lunch

REGULAR MEALS
Breakfast
- 6:30-8:30
Lunch
11:30-1:30
Dinner
5:30-6:30
Depot St.—Davidson, N. C.

i

WHEN

By EENNETH J. FOREMAN

‘ine ‘not -uneeualle yoRe ies aes th YY sae ae oa for acquaintance before the
gotiveriaatt Goentiibnes eda, aut 1 dha A Se norma y were ee ae descends, it is nut necessarily
\ manent, We cannot go back to that] true that you could take a room-
tiiteis cae lingycunie cBut patriarchal society; we Occidentals | ful of congenial friends of the other
; Hot Ohi Gu nie eOnu anand are romantic individualists. Can we, | sex, shut your eyes, pick one out
it clings to hillerde cone type of society, surrounding and live for a lifetime just as happi
1 ink, filling the valleys | @arrage with a dense haze before- ly with her (or him) as with any
ioeniieecand aiadine hand, do anything to insure more of the others. Even among con-
foo naeiel Blue permanent and happy results? genial persons, some will pair off
\ F hte -intd A simple comparison brings up more successfully than others. The
tes EA TR FOU nE ME DORNID one or two suggestions. If you are} point is that when you are struck
cr in the eummer: the haze that | (TYiNS ima season when dense fogs} by that unpredictable — lightning
rounds vouiieteversc LECOTH her tay be expected, and if, when the called falling-in-love, you don't
cand’ Were: Ohautie cae ene fog lifts, you do not wish to find | want to find yourself welded by
ding day iene sete omeoaly yourself stranded on a dead-end, the Wrist to some one you in your /
rs Winniehe HAL oniaernees ea one-way road, or bogged down in | right mind would not have accepted
Glenniizedi ieveny day and nienicin a marsh somewhere, you will take on a Christmas tree. Any one who
a i aieteerver nh ddt atin two obvious precautions, First, you claims that he (or she) is too sensi-
fo reeeniinente Weave WiC ate will provide yourself with a good ble to be taken in by a trashy or
eelacie Gy tal ile carecdiinhatie road map. Second, when the fog]insufferable girl (or boy) just
: Hectic Ganillecl nite eeneet starts coming down you will not} doesn’t know what he is talking
Slunin vows ARE SHAR En CUT pet into dangerous country ately about. ‘There is. hot a brutal,
anahenveuthectinal confusing: byways; you will stick to] an idiotic flibbertigibbet of a girl,
Nid then the lage tities. Weel: good: solid highways you can de-| who cannot, under that Tose:
pees : pend on. drunken soak of a boy, there is not
months later, man and woman look In the journeys that end in mar- | colored haze, look so ch@ming, so
cet other in the clear light of riage the same precautions may be| nearly periect, as to seem all-
ig haa eason. Can this be the taken; Get a good road map and | desirable eyen to the esperienced
ky F a it possible I tell 1 don't let the fog catch you on aljeye. No man is so wise’and none
e with this woman’ And after- risky road. In plainer English: Get] so good as to see clearly in that
TMOG SEE pale take their places | ay) the yood advice you can in ad-| haze, as King Solomon and John
mn long queue winding toward vance, and be sure the girls (or| Wesley could sadly tell you.
the-divorce courts, if asked jor a) boys) you know are of such a sort So be careful about your ordi+
planation, and reminded of oyges that after the haze lifts you would | nary friendships, your everyday
olenin udoh! they will say, “4 | jo regret being tied up with one] dates. It's.not use saying, “I know
really didn't know what Twas] of them for life. As for adyice, the | he’s not much account, but so what?
doing - old folks know more than you] I'm not going to fall in love with
It was the truth. They didn't. | think they do, You have no Woubt| him! It’s no use saying, “1. know
They could not possibly see each | said to yourself, “It's my life, why | she’s chiefly a good paint job, but
other clearly through all that mist.) should they have anything to say} she'll do for a stand-in.’ You just
And yet, without that hyponotic | about it?” Yes, but they are not] can't tell when the lightning may
fave, Wj@s\ very likely would never |in the haze themselves. And an | strike,
have been married at all, People do airplane pilot may have a_ better Books could be written about
hot vet married, as a rule, on ra- idea, of direction than’a car driver | this, and they have been. Just one
tional considerations, and eveN| right dowa in it. It’s his road, and] bit of free advice to Christian
when they do it docs net always | his car; but the plane pilot may} young people: Make your friends
turn out well, The man or woman) know more about it than the driver |among other Christians. Never
eon through the hazesis the one] does. So your elders’ (and especial- | mind if the old people in the con-
vou want to marry; the man or ] 4, your parents’) ideas about other | greyation look down their noses at
woman seen after the haze lifts ts young people are worth far more] the young people's society as a
the one you did marry. How can} than you are likely to think. If they | date-factory. So what? There is no
we manage so that the one you} seem prejudiced, as to some extent] hetter place for dates. If when that
meth thesane vou veullye Wan! ‘i tne EOC, there are any mimber of haze comes down it finds you with
Phe Orientals (Hebrews of an- | impartial good books on courtship sie ‘ Ki
cient times, Chinese of not so long }and marriage; your minister’ may | OU" best friends going to the same
avo) had their way of solvine the kbe able to suggest some to you, |.¢hurch, holding the same ideals,
difficulty. ‘They left litthe if any-| And if you are going to college, | loyal to the same Christ, then when
thing to the young people; the | there may be a helpful course On | the haze lifts, as lift it will, you will
choice wa made by older members marriage in the sociology depart: Py tor Joursel, Noh diantt
of the family, or even by trusted | ment somewhere. It is stupid, isn’t ) x
employees, as ih Genesis 24; the it, to vo into the most amportant know what LS fool Twas; but
have, if any, was supposed to}human relationship of life without rather—"I didn't realize what a
gather after the wedding, not be- lever having glanced at a map be- | happy choice | was really making.”
especially {tose —whoare~ from Il - ‘i /
foreien countries and are studying
in tris eet — te the—seminars out 0 on l| ations Y
lield last year, about 45 nationalities
vere represented. Me comuittee
Wishes to have six or_eight Ameri-
Gans i each seminar
Peace caravans carry. the com- ee [
inittee’s concern for peace directly |
to comnitic through teams of
young people, whose activities in- A call to earth’s young to tell arranyve such lJetter-friends for
chide writing articles in local news- Thow they are working for a war- you?
papersg making radio addresses and | Jess world is being issued by Youth
peaking to groups. Their aim is to; of All Nations, Ine., from its head- In explaining this wholesale
eheourage — commaiunitic to work | quarters in New York. Boys and] sounding out of youth, Miss Clara
More actively for peace, Two cara-| girls, young men and young {eiser, executive director of the or-
vans will be sponsored on the West Fwomen, in every accessible coun- [ganization, commented» “Whatever
Coast try and-island ‘on the globe—in-| foreign ministers or UN ‘settle’ or
In addition to the college credit cluding the islanded stateless in| leave unsettled, no top-level de
eiven tor Spanish in one of the] DP camps—are being asked to] cisions can alone cure the human
Mesican projects, credit has also speak out on the following ques-] sickness that plagues our planet
been given by a number of colleges {tions: We have yvot to allay the fears
in psychology and, .sociqlogy or 1. What are your own most | bred in people who are ignorant of
et a aaa nents urgent problems? ut the deepest- and _ best
ludin fe coe or ininintenance: 2. What do you believe the ane EEL ORS Mya desk) come
Hoye hana dene cea needa’ youth of your country can con- thousands of letters in which the
in the brochure, “They Volunteer tribute to the building of a young plead out of full hearts for
Nip mEGeniceie «uiildliaiesavailaple peaceful world? intellectual and spiritual contaet
pon request from the Office of the 3. What are you as an in- conad! with SOnteMAOranies beyond
Collece Program, American Friends dividual doing in this respect? their national boundaries “They
Service Committee, 20 South 12th and what would you like to do? Brope {oF aes hat ve AVM,
treet, Philadetplita 7, Pa. 4. Do you belong to a youth who robbed millions-of the right tO
CD) Saar organization? Exactly how is happy chitdiiood: dre at jeast ae
: : eee By foe word to help them live the rest of their
Notice to Students and fake aac bohe Bi : lives in some degree of that human
Faculty Members; You are peace? (When all groups have Meni TWA cUItedaRGie oe mien

utged by the editorial staff of
THE  DAVIDSONIAN - to
turn in any news copy that you
think might be of interest to
the student body.

fore. It must be admitted that the

THE HAZE LIFTS

forehand?

been heard from, the whole

story will be told.)
Sein
you like to have letter-friends

what countries would

and would you like us to try to

during the war.”
Youth of All Nations, Inc., begun
during the war as a simple effort

to help newly arrived refugee chil-

a

A~s+e>
Reprinted from the
March, 1948 issue of esqut

RE x

“‘Which one of you guys kicked the bucket last night?”

Copyright 1948 by Esquire, Inc.

Davidson Shooters
Conquer Clemson

ROTC rifle squad,
Clemson, travels to
Jelinont Abbey tonight to meet a
Crusader club in shoulder
shoulder competition. Several
other matches are in prospect for
the Cat  sharpshooters but no
detinite dates have been set.
Clemson, 1753
1735, the ROTC squad presented a

Davidson's
victors over
strong

to

In defeating to

high five combination which was
too much tor the Tigers. Top
honors for the night went to

Davidson's A. M. Rankin and Clem-
G. Allen who shot 385’s.
Second for Davidson was C, M.
Cottey with 354 who was a single
point behind P.M, Gurley of Clem-
son, The match was won, however,
by the lower three men, J. J. Miller,
J. B. Frye, and W. N. Mebane. of
Davidson who were far superior to

sons C,

their rivals. Others firing for
Davidson weré F. V, Long, J. S.
Tolbert, J. W. Walker, T. -F
Craver and 1... W. Cleveland

(1) —
SPRING PRACTICE UG
(Continued From Page Four)

missed out last
because of an operation, all

Darlington and
year
are additions to last year's squad.
Dickey Richards, Jake Wade and
Freshman Henry Wilson are prov-
ing to be tough defensive backs,
and Carl Pahl and Mac Erwin show
remarkable deception, In the line
Buddy Chandler is a on
defense and couldn't be stopped in
Saturday's scrimmage. Sandy
Carnegie has been out with a bad
knee but seems to be in fine shape
now,

demon

Ends Not Out.

Inds Cheek, Williams,  Alex-
ander, and Vrice are devoting their
time to basketball and wrestling
now, but Coach Jamerson hopes

that they will be able to get in a
week's practice when their respec-
tive have ‘ended, Getting
back to the backfield “onee* more,
it might be added that Dave Erwin

seasons

has shown marked improvement at
right half Cliff) ‘Turner, of
VMI fame, has greatly improved
in deception and ability to spot the
field ahead of him.
\ll in all it has been a good week
the Wildeats and Coach Jamer-
son's only disappointment is in the
number of boys who have come out.
Practice will stop March 13.
peaks Hise Ae (D)—

JUNG INJURED ...

(Continued From Page Four)
cisioned Joe Slaughter,

165-pound—Mott Price (D) de-
cisioned Bill Metzel.

175 - pound — Mob Mahoney
(W&l.) pinned Jack Barnard, 4:46.

Unlimited—Ken Lindell (W&L)
decisioned Bill Alexander.
= Cats Lose Jung

The Red and Black grapplers re-
ceived a hard blow today when it
was learned that Jimmy Jung, their
ace had suffered a dis-
located shoulder and would be out
for the This
means the Cats will wage the mat
duels with Salem Y, VMI¥, and the
conference championships without
this sterling performer, Coach
Charlie, Parker had counted on
Jung as ont sure cinch for cham-
pionship honors in the annual con-
Jung. showed his
say die” spirit when, after

and

for

wrestler,

the rest of season

ference meet.
“never
racking up four points against Cal
Guest of W&IE, he suffered his _in-
jury, but remained in the tilt, The
rest of the match Jimmy had to go
the defensive, grappling with

on

only one hand, After his narrow
loss, the crow sent up an over-
whelming ovation for the hardy

Cat matter, who had performed for
well over three minutes with only
one arm in use, His presence will
undoubtedly be missed as the Cats
face the last lap of their season.

dren make’ letter-friends in various
states of the U.S.A,, has evadlved
into a sort of correspondence course
in humanity, By. a unique system
of individual
exchanging, it helps the young of
all nations, races and religious be-
liefs to understand—and ‘so to like
each other better.

“In a brilliant recent speech,
heard by far too few,” Miss Leiser
added, “Pearl! Buck observed that
although youth in the U is
provided with endless activities, the
content of its life is thin, Young
people are not enough a part of
what is going 6n in the world.
They are being cheated if they
aren't made aware that their own
town is a part of the world com-
munity. The quickest way to de-
velop-a feeling of kinship. with that
sommunity is by learning from hu-
man beings themselves.”

Youth of All Nations, Inc., now
offers: that opportunity to young

and group - ideas

people everywhere, whether they
(Continued on Page Six)

BUNCH FUNERAL HOME
Ambulance Service

Mooresville, N. C.

Phone 284

Dine and Dance
UPPER DECK

OF THE

SHIP AHOY

LOCATED IN THE HEART OF CHARLOTTE
HELEN O'NEIL and the MARINERS
EVERY NIGHT BUT SUN, AND MON
DELICIOUS CUISINE NO COVER CHARGE

For Phone 4-2071

Reservations

J, ORIENTAL

ary RESTAURANT

BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PHONE 2-2238

Your Friends Meet At
GIBSON’S ICE CREAM STORE

— Curb Service —

800 E. MOREHEAD STREET

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WHATEVER
YOUR NEEDS

SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES

and the 101 other things

SHOP
: EFIRD’S MEN’S ;SHOP
STREET FLOOR

This well-known ath-
letic supporter of New
Hanover County says:
‘I’m as happy as a baby
boy when Friday comes
and I get my last week’s
DAVIDSONIAN.”’

The Spirit

THANK YOU, JERRY ROBINSON!

