—" YLDCAT TES SIUDE-TS WOLCGlLp
Published ‘'oeldy by the YC

.- "Covers Dixie like the Dew" "Oa Toney dune 1, te nabers of the
; . We" Cooinet invited 211 ne «nd tr:nsfer
Editor Jack P, Etheridge = stadents to join with them in a haaburrer
supner «t Erin Lodge, The YLDCAT viow.d
Managing Hditor Harry lic Leen like to ~aicoue then to the ccmous ond
City Desk Iditor Joe Vence wisn fox trea ¢ vei: oleas: iv) and succese=
Sports Iditor Joe Stukes ful ‘colece criéer, The‘ne students are
_ __ es Sollows: D.B.Croslind, Hilteit wcen,Cel!s
- ‘o _ Hughes, J.A.Jones, GeA,l' rebane,G.U.leotze, _
Sone periens are not awere that the P,iyiller,n,f,Bell, Fl, Best, J. Beltughes, |
_Devidson ¥ MCA is an integral pert of a D eVeldiller, C.ti, Stowe, | Del aie lor, J. Ge
large intern? tional Ollowship of Young vnite, Frenk 6.’ Gxith, Dob Joumson, B.ve
Ments Christien Associations, In the ° Bower, HeJeLipe, ‘Torn A Lingford, \'.B Hair,
United St: tes the Devidson 'Y¥! is one of ond Jel. Former, =
the more then 500 on college snd university _
cempuses, Inring the summer months, and in LACY £::°D EDA TO STUDY AT COLGATE

the Christm s recess regional conferences 2 co ce cree ee eee
ere held and zs often #s nossible we are

“representec and take an active part in tie ~ Lacy end Edna UcLezen neve gone to Col-

conduct of affairs ond the forstion of gute University where Lacy will study Pub-

YACA student policy, ere indeed is’: ~kie Zeletions under Lir, Inerson iiec!,

great and useful “channel for stucents. netion i authority, The HéLeens vill be ct
By virtue of this noble neibership Colge.te vor eleven nionuis,.

we are morbers of » larger worldwide fell- — Li eo vis tlre aan who so’ablr vepre-

oship, the vonldts ‘Student Christian Fed- sented Dewidson inte press, co wrote mony
eration, ihose intérnetiov:l hecdeucrters stories for. vie Gisrlottue peners und for
are in Switzerland, It has bem animpor- tne asnoci.ted Press, Recantly Lecy wes
tent factor in world Student life all * Offici: 1 Referee et the Southern Bor's

= through it's history, One of it's geneleg tenis tournnent held hore, |

the Worls Studant Service aAunc, his aided

eae Bee ow nee

perhaps more thon am: other student relief OST TO CONDUCT C.APSL
orgenization in bringin; comfort, prysical patna ee ween een eens ee ee
and spivitu:l, to. suivering all over the : drivscarts. “Cr WT py progremadil bee -
globe, ' Lit the out ou tac ordin: ry in Unt‘its 77
Here ere tne purposes of the student centa: 1. feature wiki be « nymansine,” To
Young .en's Curistiin Associstions, of lease tae sanying sie huve invited ifr, — a

woiel: you are a menber, Tne YLDCAT comends Nic.erd Jenizins, Minister of Uusie &t thé
them to vou for your thought end for your F.rst Metaodist Church in Ch-rlotte, Nr,
prayerful suporort. Jonclas is cwren¢@l: leedins the series
of Sunday evening hymsaings et Froedom
The Young Men's Christian Assoeit tion Park Lake in Charlotte, He his had much
—is_s_union -of_stucents_ciie_faculix members canonionee in this fiele and Buould provide

for the following purposes: on interesting G Giapel prog Pele
fo leéd students to feith in God Wihe grea ve: sb erforts of t 6 race have”
Through Jesus Christ; alveys beer. traceable to tie love of praise,
To led tnen into membership and ser- +9 its Sreztost cetustronhes to the love,
vice in the Christi:n Churcl:y of pleasure," John iuskin __.
To promote their growth in Christisa
feith snd ch:racter, especially trrougn the MOVIES WIS (iia.

study of the Pible cnd pre:rer; ae
‘fo influence ter to cevote themse¥ves WED.GGDA Y ot Snd THU TEDI ;
in united effort with 411 Christizns to "Song of my Heart! a

making the will of Unrist ef..ective.in rans Sundstron - Audvey Long
hum.n society, end to extending tre King-
dom of God throu shout the world, FRIDAY and SATURDAY

Wary at Fumace Creel!
: Victor lature ~- Colleen Gray
