Vole 1 - No. 3 A PUBLICATION OF THR YMCA. JUNE 24,1948
ee a ee ee
‘ ‘ an ‘ . {
. es SS 8 { rd fay
Q y a) Q = Ky oY wf a fs) yet '

h i 1 ioe Wr
AN is ty
4 Ax OS EN os i IN 3 Ny

SOFTBALL SEASON UNDERWAY “~~ Thig past year the athletic
teams of Davidson proved that we
are no lounger a bunch of has-beeng
It is rather early in th? soft geeking © string of moral victories;
ball competition to draw any concl- put this Saturday nicht the Y has
usions as to who'll cop the "penna- decided to find out if the he-men
nt", but here are the league stand- who bumred heads with the State Wo-

3
As

Gil

ings to dates Cae ‘1fpack and who blazed a trail of
Won fost Standing glory on the hardwood and on the
West - 2 44000 courts really have what it takes.
Town - 1 1 2500. A two mile grind around the track,
Georgia- ab 1 2500 or-an hour's scrinmage under the
Watts - 0) 2 «000 tutelage of "Bloody Bill" Storey

- takes a lo% out of a fellow, or the
West Bemains as the gqnly unde= veterans might even look back upon
eated team, Pitchers Bill Robertsontheir bavic training days as a nig-
and Gene Bingham form the battery htmare of physical exertion; but you
that's apparently dealing mortal bl-"aintt" gone through anything yet
ows to all the competition, until you try a few rounds of moun-
Qe Cooper seems to ave found tain style square dancing to the mu-
the right infield for his Georgia sic of that famous Cornélius String
team since the trouncing hy the to- Ensemble. After a few swings around
wn team, and used this combination the walk in front of Chambers a quae
to give Watts a defeat, Bill Johnsonrt of "Kickapoo Joy Juice" couldn't
did Georgfa's pitching. Georgie willmake you eny dizzier, but this big
feel the loss of Johnson, who left event promises to be loads of fun
Tuesday for an extended "G.I." va= for everybode, and well worth all of
eation. the physical hardships that will be
Occupants of the various dorms,endurcd,
are urged to, come out and support
their teams, This is only ome of the social

events that will be sponsored by the
MOVIES THIS WEEK Y this summer, and under the able

leadership of "Social" John Pritchard
¥ arrangements have been made to take

MONDAY. AND TUESDAY care of the aoute shartage of women,

'Seeret Life of Walter ritey Around 35 beauties from the Presby-=
Danny Kaye - Virginia Mayo terian Hospitaj? will lay aside their

“tT

s ; dutics as student nurses for the ev-.
FRIDAY and SATURDAY ening and make their way to "The Hill'
"Shaggy" ._g0 that when the dance gets.under way

Brenda Joyce | - Robert Shayne at 8:15 pm, thére will be partners
available for everyone. Of Course,
MOBDAY and TUESDAY if you have a special date in mind,
‘hree Daring Daughters" bring her along.
Seznetté McDennld = José IturblL HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE}
