With fraternity
‘pushing over and
the first edition of
the campus’ lead-
ing weekly publica-
tion
about been
vinced that the old

to
The
of putting

due, we've

cone
back

grind is

worry us.
thought

enough
to fill

column

down
words
this

up
each
week is’ presenting
ho envious position
for the But
we'll try to put out a clumm and present the sports news
in a way that is unexcelled in Davidson annals. AVe have the
staff to do it. Returning from last year’s rostér are Gordon
Scott, Furman Warlick, Cherry Stribling and Watt Jeffries.
Heading the new list Bill White, had several
years of sports writing experience with/the Charlotte Ob-

By Jack Hazard

writer.

is who/ has
server, Bill probably knows more abouy the game than any-
one else around here, The staff is rounded out by sophomores
Ed West and David Whitener and ffeshien Bill Bueky and
Bryan Robinson. All have had some previous writing experi-
ave still lo
would like to contribute his bit to this departinent

ence in high school, Positions open anyone who

“Coach Charlie Jamerson Ao lis 1948 edition of the Red
and Black machine off to/: fying start with an impressive
25-0 drubbing of lon College. Jamerson still has to smooth
out some kinks in the /Wildeat offense and defense as well,
but as Coach Jim Mallory of Elon says, this looks like the best

Davidson team in fifteen years.

Last year’s eleven piled up the aost impressive record
shige 1963, and/Cat followers will'see virtually the same team
with another vear of experience. Major losses will be felt at
blocking back and tailbaek wheie first stringers of last year
are out. Dave Poole, last voar’s sensational three-letter fresh-
manfdhas decided to drop football for fear of an injury which
could ruin a very promising pro-baseball career, Poole will
be around for basketball and behind the bat when the Spring
call for baseball is made aeain, but his absence will be

strongly felt in that blocking back slot.

Poole’s absence and Charlie Rimer’s shoulder injury last
week brought forth a promising new man for the job in Bill
Iverson, Iverson has plaved-at fullback and made a stab at
end but has really found himself in the bloeking position,
With Rimer’s return, Cat ball carriers should have two fine
trail blazers ahead of them.

The tailback spot vacated by Buck Williams’ failure to
return to school should be well handled by Carl Shepherd
and Auburn Lambeth. Shepherd showed more speed and de-
ception last Saturday than he has in the last two years. This
coupled with a driving reminds of Lu
Gambino, should make him one of the state’s top leather
luggers. Though the sophomore Lambeth will get the spot-
light in the aerial work, Shep proved again against Elon that
he will take no back seat in that department.

power whieh us

The Georgian, Lambeth, came to Davidson last year with
an enviable and admirable record in Peach State prep circles.
Auburn was noted as a passer, but saw limited service last
year. With added weight and experience this year he is slated
for top billing in Jamerson’s offensive plans of tossing the

pigskin around a lot.

to Cat
snatcher for thi@ireligadsam ball Saturday in flipping off sev-

This should bring forth a pat on the back pass
eral laterals that netted extra yardage each time. In our book,
that’s the difference in a team that’s playing to win and one

which is only playing.
The writer of this column is usually supposed to come up

e
with a bright prediction for the Cats’ weekly game. But even
though Jake Wade said, ‘‘We'll take ’em,’’

pretty far out on a thin limb to call it a Davidson victory this

we'd be going

week. However, we don’t look for the seore to be as bad as
last year’s when the Indians won 21-0. Our crystal. ball says
the locals will seore once or twice and W. & M. will make

no more markers than they did in the previous clash.

| seasons.

WHATEVER
YOUR NEEDS

SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES

and the 101 other things

SHOP
MEN'S

~

EFIRD’S SHOP

STREET FLOOR

Wildcat Sports

WE'LL TAKE

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1948

DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

PAGE THREE

Harriers Prep
To Open Season

On October

cross country

loth
team

the Davidson
will try to ex
tend their winning streak from last
when they the

without

vear went entire

defeat. - Returning
last indicate
thaythey have a. very good chance
to make it two straight undefeated

season

lettermen from year

Back from last year wall be Jacl
Gray, Bob Grube, and Blake Brad

lev; this trio finished one-two
three in) nearly every meet last
year, Others back to bolster the
strength of the squad are Dil
Smith, Bill Long, Bill Dubose, and

Roy Covington
that
dents

Coach Whittle said
now
the

there were @bent 25 stu

out for team, amons

them some new boys who are look-
ing very good at this time. Coace!

Whittle

the prospects for this year and said

seemed optimistic abou

that he was hoping for a better
team than we had last season. Sid-
ney Bruce is the manager of the
squad.

Greek Play To
Open Monday

The
yram

interfraternity sports pro

gets under way on Monday

afternoon with a total of two tough

football games scheduled for the
intramural field below the fresh-
man field behind the stadium, Foot-
balls have been issued to all ten
fratefiities and the Campus Club,
and practices are being held each

day by these teams under the di-

rection of their respeetive sports

managers.
Last year the Kappa Sigmas took

the football tithe with a perfect
record of 10 wins and no defeats,
while the Betas lost only to the

Kappa Sigmas in a season opener.
\- good many of the All-Interfra-
ternity stars from last year are re-
turning and with the new freshman
stars should make this a great year
for interfraternity football.

The time for
games not decided.
Each fraternity will play each other

these afternoon

has yet been
one in the round-robin tourney only
The will
good total of points toward the in-
terfraternity cup.

once, winner reccive a

U.S, Navy scientists expect soon
to be able to produce temperatures

within .0OL degrees of of absolute

W & M avored In

Conference Scrap

On Saturday night a ( le in Char-
lotte will be the Scene of il e the top
contests to be stawed in the eur
rent pleskin season, for nnd his
| star-studded Wetter be out

in

Cats Impressive :
In Elon Triumph mi

NV cou | I
neiulibe iN | :
Phi Delt Nal
aor week tr In
'
to ‘ Vaal
Kiel | \
led leat
init
lepe’s Might (
mn
he pitel \\
betho was on t { ue
i t
jivom | Gaston
who. teamed t | |
line batterin trija
an organized
PHASE hes Mh A}
herd had- réturned | ne the
» thick from the 19 te the ki
Re Fy ' 39, ripped oft tack! last
sect . g — ste to the Chiristia e
AUBURN LAMBETH for the first Gat e
———— - ———— - — | Shepherd, Wade
1T' ii lit to the three, an 1
INTRODUCIN'.... Lae a
By CHERRY STRIBLING et a rock We AN
} ¢ o SHEP Here t
Introdticing Auburn. Lambeth top NGLC football and baseball teams} theek. Pete Bro
the Davidson College student body |his senior year. He had the highest |tempt was short and the | er
is ng rough job because le cer-| grades in his class and was presi-|in the van, 6-0
tainly needs no introduction to/dent of the senior class Wade, the wivelelit ! test as
the large majority of the students. | While a freshman here last year} wingman who caused Coach | Cat
His popularity with the students islhe made high grades while playing |ley many an ansious moment f T brand
evidenced by his being — elected | football and baseball on the var-|year with his undecided d to |
sophomore member of the Student sity" teams. His greatest football | definitely proved that ;
Council. day was in the Hampden-Sydney | where he is heading thi I
Auburn came out. of Decatur} game last year when he completed fing on his own 25° late ( Four)
High in Decatur, Ga. with the]five out of five passes, three of | period, wee Jake’ raced
reputation of being one of that{them for touchdowns. In the base-| sideline all the way to. ilo
school’s most talented passers. That} ball season he played rightfield | before being forced ont |
is a high compliment considering }and was one of the stars of the} lambeth tagged Cheek two pla 1)
the fact that such stars as Frank] team while compiling one of the} later on the 28° ‘Vurner went Hal
Broyles and Jimmy Southard of|top batting averages. Jeighteen toe the Ty and in ie
VTech and stars of other college} He js a member of the Phi Del-|eracks, Erwitr was acro i" 4,
teams also are alumni of Decatur} ta ‘heta fraternity and was placed Brown's try for. the point eavhiiohe
High. He was offered scholarships}on the “All-Frat. basketball teanr| shert
to Georgia and Tech, as ~ well as last year, while starring for the Phi] AX Wade Shepherd pa k
many other colleges throughout the] Delts, He is also a member of th IShep Tateralling off todo t
South.- But luckily for the Wild st) Club and the Beaver Club Jburg gave the Cats the ba i
cats he chose Davidson. uf If you ask him about his ambi } Elon 26 midway in’ seeond 4 top Vine
While in high school Lambeth} tion, he replies that he would like| Shepherd bulled all the 4 p ‘
made an outstanding” record, play-] to play - professional baseball. Iyjfour on the ensning “pla | ei
ing football, basketball, and base- you ask hind about his gisl he will} piled ower Jeft into the end ose. »
ball. He was placed on the All Brown's. conversion

just smile and shake his shead.

for me

Mild, Cool

CAMELS —
thats the
cigarette

, GET NEXT TO...

Johnny Long’s“JUST LIKE THAT”’—
from the Signature diskerie.

Johnny Long (Duke University—Sigma Nu) comes: up
with a danceable, bright bounce. It’s a Long original!

If you should ask Johnny how he came to write it, he'll light

up a Camel and say: ‘Experience! I know from

Johnny Long and

experience what music suits my band best—
just as I learned from experience that Camels
suit my “T-Zone’ to a ‘T’.”
Try Camels on your ‘“T-Zone’’—"'T”’ for taste,
“T” for throat. See for yourself why, with ehh

Camels are the “choice of experience.”

THE CHOICE OF
EXPERIENCE

RB. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina

millions of other smokers,

