¢, em ‘* fo —1-
1 if | 1
{
I, / \. too
wl de . on
0, WI OF TT sca July 29, 1948-
on ; AIT yp ( { a _ Ty
VTE Ly =f
: ar, an ae
LieSt Aus TRC JTIOCATS ot ‘Dis. TP Temes To aif Gusts’

Te Vest ",ildects caaryions of TOOL LOW night, rriday, July “Oy
Tis t tera ere conpletely—subdued the-ertens add ving th crien of.
by tre Macuht:: All-Sters Tucscey of "grab your gas “end “iPericiiade. oi. viGe—
ternoon. The All-Stars ied by the son's ow ndcle Arnolc, “so ber Dill
stellar oitehing of Baunenn yon by t.eLecn, weil be calling a acusrerda
the one sided score of G-2, nee which will ve held in front of

awe The chances of.a@ victory by tae _Chinbers. °
eteam from West were ruined by error Student jurses from .resb, terian
“in the eerliér pert of theicme, wilt be present-to add-their éhern.
Thése crrroves tiough distriouted  JTusic will be “off records ond
thru out tie team did seem to cent-the "TUCAT" nas: gotten a tip that,
er in tue "nct—go -hoti! t_erw. wih be iuel.iuore. "round dans,
———Along- ttt us fla id—aefcise cine i. aves enjoyed last time. _
tiie Vildeuts, secied te hive oa "flue The el. “1s are providing treir own
icdless" drive .in their offenscsSuchtrans, oriv.tion tis time so we can
things as Siulley 411, who lost Yisespoct.v.iings to begin to hainen, as
sile sen net got ea long hit only por sel.edule, exactly at 5:15. Ii.
vo mis first base om his trip arou- If you ere on the campus Friday
na the bags. Following this Tohn night come over to Chambers and en-
Voll anid J. Kichards Managed a nit joy.a. swell evering, Lee
“each, Tris seemed to be-the extent —— ~~
of the Wildcat vover.  . VESPERS
The All-Stars showing good de-~ :
ronee and equally consistent hit--
ing ‘ieve mode a strong btd--for the Vesiors t.is sohting Sunday evene
clumplonsiin. Perheps tre Georgia ing will be o “Dit unusial. In an at
meadies led by ‘quinine Cooper can test to accucint the student bedy
offer a serious ch allonge tomorrow,as to just how the dert. -of. Devuta-
since B11 ganes wednesday vere posttions onsvers, their numcrous culls,
_oned by tynical-: Davidson ‘ient.er- a’ tyyleal ®" devutcution will eon-
vain, “ith expected iuprovements duct this service. —

in the tear from vest by i .anecer This group will be mde up of
Wilke -.we are ex. ecting c. heated raceJac:: Deluney, ‘Wio will preside, Gob
— Jo: anson, and Frank Siaith’ who will
Battertess ee speak .on. tine bopde, NGetting or Giv—
VUSst. Tinghem, , Fe ing". - ~ -
. Driggs , GC. - Char.ctcrinsiic of ‘the vork of the
ATL BEANS Baumann, Yr, tepartient of the "VY", tiis group
Arderton, C. _ will ia 80 conduct tne morning ser-

a . . vice at Barium Srringe.
Thurs’ Peadics ¥s, ALL-Stcrs. (Contta Page 2)

