' AFTERNOON AND
EVENING CONCERTS

SCHEDULED BY SYMPHONY

Voliime XXXVI

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, MARCH 12. 1948

The Bavidsonian

ATTEND THE
“‘D CLUB FOOLIES”’

ON MARCH 18th

: Number 20

Phi Beta Kappa Elects Eigh

Gala Foolies Show
Set For Thursday

The “SD Club Fo lies

day night as Cousin?’ Dave Blevins blows the cork out of his

will begin with a bang next Thurs-

RK . . , ° .
“hiker jug, pouring forth a sparkling concentration of talent
(of The first

Will kiek-oTf with a

crooners, comedians and Chorus girls course

fea of these aectors—as well as ath!eiés

canteen act, spearheaded by = —
Crooners Chandler and Hotlips |

Hodgins, whe will attempt to Band Returns

iMitace respective abilittes of

Perr Como and Johnny Mereey

Which have won the latter two all

Atter Lengthy.

Nanrerien Tarte 1 mratsteal achtey C~
ment

Xt halftime in this two-hour S th T
event, the second teanr will take | ou ern Our
over. Backtield standouts — Rhea
Adoips and Boek Williams will.be The band is back, After atrium
shiited to endmen as the minstrel | phant tour of Florida and one
Show pulls some tricky maneuvers | Georgia city where they were ac-
With master of ceremonies Boo} claimed by thousands, the David
Phil’ps calling plays. Blockin on band has returned to the fold

Back Jimmy kogers is espected to Leaving, at 9:00 p, m., Monday,

bowl over ‘the spectators as he} Marehel, in ancassembly occupying
vooalizes to the sweet harmony o. | two busses, the band journeyed to
Bill Davis and his ‘Vin-Pan Alley- } Ocala, Florida, where a concert was
cats.” held Tuesday night. On WedneSday

We are counting on some sensa hey moved southward to Avon
tioned end-aro.nd plays from the} Vark for a scheduled performance
dancers, and between quarters | that. night, stopping en route for a
Cobb, Red Wilson, Ernie Stricklin, | brief afternoon showing at Dade
and others will leave off tHeir ball- | City. Fort) Pierce, Flerida was
handing lone enough te become | gifted by the presence of the
chorus girls. Davidson band Thursday and on

\ sell-out crowd is expected at

50 cents,a head; so don't forget, | tion in) Florida—a performance in
the fick-off is the night of March] Orlando that night, They, then
13 t Chambers Stadim, Be there! | headed northward again for an en=
: (D) agement in Thomasville, Georgia,
Saturday night. Leaving UThomas-
N i d M ay v ville- Sunday morning, the band re-

0 e@ U51Cian turned to Davidson.
C-o-n-s-tant—-study —was in
Leads Symphony : progress as long as tiie band was
in motion, The only thing that in-
Ha ef-course,—is_hnown known | crrupted the steady —drone—of-pern—

that world famous, }cils was the occasional oral recita

known as a master musician, known

as a mame Is

tions of Chaucer by the more high-

as one of the great symphony. or- | ly intellectual.

chesira leaders of America, But, Central Florida was seized by a
having said that, how many peo- false alarm of war as the Davidson
ple really know the man, Karl | boys arrived in Dade City. Half the

Krueper? band purchased cap pistols and

Thiy judge him by the manner
in wich he draws harmonies from
the Detroit
That is to say, they judge him by

literally “shot up the town.” They
ambushed, the
half, resenting — their
companions adolescent inclinations,

were however, ‘by

Symphony Orchestra. | other who,

his works. They see him onostage | surged forward with pea-shooters

in action, they see him bow to their | to preserve the honor of Davidson.

applouse—and then he is gone! True southern hospitality was

When first) you meet him, his shown all through - Florida and
speceh may puzzle you. It has the | Georgia. In Ocala the band received
deep broad drawl of the wes.ern | free, sight-seeing trips at Silver
plains, yet modulated from his Springs, courtesy of the manage-
world travels and his abilities as ay ment. Oranges were had at Avon
lingu’st. When he gets excited oyer | Park and an afternoon of swim-

some discussion—as he usuaily does | Ming in the Atlantic Ocean was on

—he is likely to drop French, Ger- | the menu Thursday when the band

man, Spanish@Ttatian phrases into [arrived in Fort Pierce. A dance was

his rash of words, wholly unaware, held for the Davidson boys after

of the fact, their concert that night, courtesy of

His father was a Lutheran mis- |] the band alumni of Fort Pierce. A
sionsry to the “North American} Picnic at Pittman Lodge high-
Continent.” He gave all his four | lighted the entertainment when the
sons musical educations—and did | band arrived in Orlando, ‘Thomas-
not spare the rod. ville, Géorgia, successfully com-

But when he found out that son] peted with the Florida cities by

throwing a dance at the local coun-

Kar! to

sione] musician he was heart brok

wanted become: a™protcs-
try club immediately following the
All he had aimed to do was to} Saturday night performance. This

background.

en!

give them a cultural brought a close to the social agenda

So When Karl went to Europe to} of the band as they reluctantly
study music he had to also study | headed north in the direction of
law, in order to. satisfy the old | Davidson Sunday morning.

A good time was had by all who
went on the trip» The band returned
home with delightful memories of

- gentleman.
He was graduated in law from
Heidc berg University. He had al-

ready finished the liberal arts | at least a few days well spent and
course at Kansas University, He | leave in thetr path much that will
also specialized in abnormal

add of Davidson

College,

to the prestige

psychology, economics and higher
mathematics,

Figure all that out a back-
ground training for the job of being
a symphony orchestra leader!

as

Evening VPost,-and the late William

White.
As

maestro to win world attention as

Though he studied under the Avene etired oA men Gane bontl
great Arthur Nikish, was a protege
Felix Weingartner and was as-
sociated with Franz Schalkm, di-
rector of the Vienna Opera, he is
as completely American as a hot-
dog. wtih mustard. Out in Kansas
he played both baseball and foot-

ball. He never misses a champion-

of

a conductor, he takes that fairly

lightly and in his stride, because he
Old World

one-eight as good as he his

does not’ consider the

does

own United States

ship prize fight, if he can get to it. Talk to him about art, science,
The University of Kansas named | literature, politics, philosophy, base-
him as one of the state’s four most | ball, football—anything that hap-

distinguished citizens. The other} pens to interest you—and you have
three were General. Eisenhower,|an immediately enthusiastic com-
Benn Hibbs, editor of the Saturday I panion,

ee a
Friday the band made its last audi

PHI BETA KAPPA

Men shown in this group
were recently elected to
membership in Phi Beta
Kapva. Left to right, first

row — Herb Miller, Sam
Maloney and M. H. Mc-
Glamery.

Seccnd Row—Sam Ervin,
and W, M. Boyce.

Third Row—Bill Bob

bitt, Clayton Carpenter and
Tom Moore.

Deputations Group
Assists Students

The

six-inan deputation from
Union Theological Seminary, Rich-
mond, Va., left

day

Davidson Wednes-

morning after) an inspiring

three-day stay. The purpose of this |

group was to help any student by

consultation decide upon his life’s

calling, and to help» any pre-min-
to
Christian

wishing learn
life
leader. Many students took adyan-
the

the

isterial student

more of his as a

tage of this opportunity, and

deputation was inspired with
response

On Tuesday evening Dill’ Rogers,
of the

lead a group in discussion on sub-

one member deputation,
jects brought up by those present.
the

strength

things discussed
of

It is the feeling of those

One of was

the Christianity in
Europe.
who spoke about this that hope of
in
It

ever attaining a unified world

peace rests upon Christianity.
Was mentioned in passing that the
seminary in Richmond, with the

GL Uso Phi Literary
VESPERS 4 Z
March« 14 ==)Religious film, S t | t ll
“Beyond Our Own.” Ocle y ns a 5
CHAPEL N Otti
Monday, March 15—Prof, W. ew 1C€IS

M, Thompson. The Philanthropic literary
Tuesday, March 16—Professor Society held an important meet
Griffin. : ing Monday, Mareh &, in whieh
Wednesday, March 17—Mr. new officers were installed, Jack
William P. Maddox, director Etheridge, who is the retiring presi
Foreign Service Institute, | dent, opened the Meeting. Tlerb
Department of State, Wash | Meza, the retiring viee-president
ington, D, C. fave a very interesting and cléver
Thursday,. March 18—Profes- report on the society's accomplish
sor J. A. McGeachy. ments during, the last term, This
Friday, March 19—YMCA. report, was based on an analogy ot
the doings of Mr. Phil Anthropic
help of the Assembly's training Herb Meza covered all the func
school, ‘has raised over $5500. from | Hons and the improvements made
the students to help cloth and feed | 4! Maloney took-on tis duties
a seminary in France, jas the new president of the sactety
Another point discussed was, jalongy with Hugik farrior, vice
“How are men able to tell that | President, and Jo We Pence, seer
they are called to the ministry.” In} fy Vn inangural address was pre
ATTACH? (RAUL) Eee Ft ev AT ES NANOS ERDAS cS TC TES
which he stressed his feeling of ap
an eXperience he had in the lacific | WTeCIaTiONrintelGnomlortemeepon
during the war in which he ran | ibility given to him, He continued

(Continued on Page Six)

FOR WHOM

DAVE GAMBRELL
“In the sleepy town of David-

son, ya,

There's a story seniors love
to tell,

Of a freshman who became dis-
gusted

With the serenade of the bell.”

It all began last week, when, on
Monday morning at 7:30 the
school’s bell began to toll ‘‘the h—
of starting day.” The above men-
tioned frosh, after a riotous week-
end was hibernating very success-
fully in the sovereign domain of
his sack, The inception of this all
too familiar tinkle agitated his
slumber to such an extent that he
was unable to return to the, arms

of Morpheus.

“To this freshman came’ the

fiendish idea,

As the bell disturbed him
his sack,

That he would that evening
steal the clapper,

And that he should ne’er give

in

(Continued on Page Six)

THE BELL DIDN'T TOLL

it back.”
It came to
that he sneaked—by use of a Jacob
ladder—(Bible 12 student) up
rear side of the hallowed walls and
succeeded in detaching that heinous
instrument, which has become such
a thorn in the side of the average
college student. Disposal of that
“hot” article was the next problem,
but to our hero the
right there in its name. He thought
to himself, “Clapper,” and that was
inspiration enough. He took it over
to his dormitory and ‘flushed’ it
away.

pass that evening,

the

answer was

“Everyone thought the bell

unbroken,

It had, sounded for a long, long
time.

Then! one day the village was
astounded,

For the bell refused to chime.’

It was such a great shock to the
realm of peace that a state of emer-
gency was declared. Meetings were
held, trustees were called in, mimeo-

graphed Icaflets were passed out to

the student body, proclamations,
warnings, rewards, not a stone was
left unturned, but nothing was pro-
duced, No glory seeker, our hero

held his secret to himself in the

solitude of his now peaceful , re-
treat.
What. finally became | of — this

Modern Robin Hood is unknown in
the annals of Davidsoniania, It is
rumored that he went on to grad-

uation with a fair. scholastic aver-

‘
age and lived a life of worthy serv-

Whatever

ice to his fellow man.
the outcome, he will always re-
main dear to the hearts of some

970 odd collegians for the respite
he gave them.

“Peace returned to Boy's Town
the
student's

goes
And in
thanks doth dwell,
For the daring of a nameless
freshman,
And the silence of the bell.”

story,
hearts a

t New Members

Four Seniors, Four
Juniors Are Chosen

Gamma Chapter of Phi Betas Kappa national scholarship
fraternity. announced Priday that eieht Davidson students, four

seniors and four juniors, had been elected to tembership in that

weanization, Those chosen were Wo TH, Bobbitt. Jr \Ymey ES
Bovee, A fiteyt Oa 6! Carpenter, ; AD AVI TEAR AYE 168 MeGlamery,
H Madore Ho AS Miller and

Debaters Take Svea are
Bary (i AutMal |e ote me a
Area Tournament

Bill } iv
re 1 tte, Bill-is a
This past week-« Da : fara eer
lebaters eneaved 1 | : ‘ fiikaribaseeers
vith the Sor ( tan ‘ any ny
iy teams at the Sivte \inmual |] iti AV,
Southeastern Pore: nament yy i { dott nit
n Hickory, N,( fa Live oe ei Flies
SOMA TTI TEE OE UN Bill. Boyce
rar, semior, and Donshris rr ) ¥ 1
| i resident of the
man, defeated the. | ( a
( favelaee bt
Virginia, Emory and tH 1 ;
nd Pennessec beak oe eite
University of Vlo y ETUC TU ac Ge
wt South Carotn
Richmond, and Len kx Clayton Carpenter
eee, Jay Perce and | : Carolinian, Clayt
ophomores, ma : 1. He also will
eam, They \ ( Hy wit F B.S. in
nan, Randolph Macon Ee ets to become an
tridgewater Colle PGR UU
lecisions to (the Univer Sam Ervin
iShorida,—Eniversity—aasf—\ Ml inton, North
nited States N [At nel i Political Science
niversity of Richmond, Vhe final He plan to attend law
results, six win \ t  cight y Daring World War
osses, isn't to di Otfediontict | erved tor two years with the
sidering — that-—-our—-team were+}4 : the last one in Japan with
matched against teams having fa u veeupation troops,
more debating experience — and Hart McGlamery
equipped with excellent coache Hart Vampa, Mlorida, his
Davidson has long. needed a debat NOS Seed teanress
ny coach. Should she obtain one ! Lae lotte \ - Marine
we can look forward to producing | ‘ eteran ‘ majoring in
hampion teams within the nest ! th the idea of becoming
year or two. Freshman Shriver and Ce © prate oO atter” receiving
sophomores Venee and Day d Hiploma in May
cady” rate~ as fast competition Sam Maloney
umong the debating ci of the \ terial candidate,ssam_ is
South. If these men are given t Philosophy aajor Fhe Knox-
little coaching along with the valua- ‘! Penne o is to grad-
ble” experience they mir uinin e in 1948, served as an air corps
they will bring honors to them ‘ t ent war, and did
selves and to Davidson in the com- | § 1 tl lapanese
ing debating seasons, mt LOTT 3
aiikeetateituie Connalceoe ; Herb Miller oe
to give its members all the , SL CUE eae this
ence possible this year ihevend 4: I ee dent |
of the season, the twelve meriber : esky
will have participated in ri Upven eS
intercollegiate debate | : é
many as thirty-five different col ee
leges and universitic The are : sit }
t ‘ t ’ )

working to give debat

lic speaking its right@ul place on

Davidson tampus

Hollister Reports
On Feature Contest

IRC Participates
In Time Survey

RES DAN TDSONIAN 1
ontest Continues with tM 1 a) t resday ht the Inter-
being submitted durin thre Mist | nyt dl Relation ( devoted a
week Phese feature wil Dey part of its meeting t6 a discussion
printed as soon as “space” permit ( luestion baxed Git sthosé that
probably in the next issue of TTT ie now. beit isked as part of
DAVIDSONIAN. Nout international survey of
The student body is again ure | ) mn | 1e, the
to take active interest in this ¢ eel newsmagazine, is corrduct,
fort to, make ‘THE DAVID-ii t the pr of ten oun-
SONITAN more interesting to ea t (ex t Hritain, France, ltaly,
one of you. If, whenever a spare ten ‘ s erland, Germany,
minutes are available, they we M B fF Canada, and the
put to use in jotting, down a] United Stats feebhed
paragraph or two, within two or 4 results of the survey among
three days’ time your feature yo own. inembers* and various
be completed nembers of the student body will
~A first prize of $25.00 in cash | be conipared at a! later meeting
will be awarded by THE DAVID- | with many other -findings,’ Gene
SONIAN to the author. of the fea Iingham, prestdent of the” IRC,
ture selected as best by the ju said. “We beheve it will be most
The group, of judges includes the | interest to see how the opinions
eflitor in chief, the associaté editor }of- some of — the internationally
and the four managing editors of | minded students on this campus
THE DAVIDSONIJAN stack up against those of students
The, donor of the first) prize }of other colleges and universities—
award money has specified that}and against the opinion —of ‘the
the $25.00 prize is not to be pre ut_us a. whole. It will be ever
sented unless a minimum of tan | significant to see where our
entries have, been submitted by " : ; Zs
: : thinking agrpees and disagrees with
March 31—the closing date of tle ‘ } ery fos
it of vari®us groups in the many

contest, It is felt that if Mere ate | nations outside aur barders where

(Continued on Page Six) fine is conducting this study,’
