énXYLDCAT
Published Veekly by the YIiCA -

Editor
lianagering Editor
Cable Editor
City Desk Editor

Jack P, Htheridge
ilarry LicLean

Bill. (Scoop) hicLean
Joe Vance

In the past week a poll has been ta~
ken-eamong a cross-section of the student-
body which relates to very important polit.
ical matters , Yet those who were taking
the poll were impressed with the indiff-
erence, the lack of thought, and the sheer
laziness in political thought of a number
of the students.

This is a good time to consider our
political indifference, Surely it is not
advocated that everyone shotld be equally
interested in these matters, but it is em-
phatically advocated that-we should all be
interested, and avare of what's going on
politically.

No one can deny that Ifitler had a’
pretty conception of American politics,
for when he thought of our politics he did
not think of Jefferson or of Woodrow Wil-
son, He knew that liayor Hague of Jersey”
City made a local joke of American demo- |
cracy, ile lkMew that Layor Kelly of Chicago
made a local racket-out of the New Deal,
And we cannot be naive, for above all, Joe
Stalin Imows that when American politicians
meet to conduct the affairs of 2 great
peaple, the level of their discussion
would not tax the imagination of a horse-
shoe crab, The times demand that we can no
longer indulge our taste for third-rate
politicss laziness and venality, tempered
by our Gharecteristically democratic good
humor, 3y our indifference we abondon a
large part of our power to the profession-
als, and then fall into apathy and cynicism
when faced with the results,

A man who argues with his roomate
about Truman, or listens to the convention
.proceedings is taking part in politics.

The man who refuses to listen or discuss
‘politics! is, in a sense, taking part in
politics, But tlis is a purely negetive
and unhelpful part.. Politics in a democracy
are healty in proportion to the numberwho
participate in the positively and creativ-
ly. The’more the public, yes, the Davidson
student, thinks for itself on political
issues, the less it will be swayed by it's
political leaders, We cannot afford to ask
less of ourselves than a reform of our
political behavior, We all must devote more
of our spare tine to politics,

WEDIESDAY NIGHT HALL NELTINGS

Every ednesday night at ten o'clock
in your cornitory are held hall prayer
meetings, ‘hese are lead by vorious men-
bers of the student body or bj members of
the faculty. You will find in the hall *
prayer meetings’a good opportunity for
real fellowship, and for many’ enlightening
and interesting bull sessions, as well as
quiet meditation and a prayerful pause in
the middle of a busy weelc. Go to the de-
votional held on your hall or in your
dormitory next week and support these
meetings,

jhe leaders in the varions dormitor-’
ies are’as follows: for Watts, Anos Hardy;
Georgia, larry lLicLean; First floor and
basement: of West, Julian Hodges; second
floor, Cree Hutchinson; third and fourth
floors, | Auiny Porrin.

STASSEY TO BE PRESIDENT

During the past week a poll has been
made concerning the current Republican
convention, Fifty students were quizzed

vand Were is the rather interesting tolly,

1) Are you itepublacan or Democrat?
Republican 6; Democrat 26; Neutral 1&
2) Who do you think will win the Mulls
lican noxination for presicent?
Dewpy,13; Stassen 20; Taft 2; Van-

dender;; 6; Joe Martin 1; Don't kn Know 6,
3) Who do you think will be noi wins ted for

Vi. ce-president?
Stassen 3; Warren 13; Joe lartin 13

ed

5
Duff 2; Dwight Green 1; Vandenberg 23

Don't Know Oe.

1.) Assuniny Truman will be the Democratic
nominee, do you think the next Pres-
ident will be 2 Republican or a Den-
ocrat? :

Republican 42; Democrat 8.
5) Who would jou like to see as the next

President of the United States?
Truman 1 Rabewey 5; Stassen 263 Van—
denberg 143; Teft 23 Warren 1; lice
Arthur 1; Byrnes 2; Hiscnhower /. “

Polis -DEVOE RATTLE AGALI

Big, londe Charles Devoe partially
evened the score last Monday with Steve
Potts at Grlaciuse, Alabama in tie Cotton
States Yenais Tournment, With his doubles
partner Devoe took the Southern Gro: mi fron’
the Potts-lierrit tea in two ght sets.

eo
Sorel
