THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

a ES

SAM ERVIN
BOB CLINE

rr

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Phillips —.
Mac Hart ---.
Walter Mann —
Stan Kennett -

Bill Calhoun ~--- -. Managing Editor
Ronnie Dietrich . ... Managing Editor
Rees Jenkins ... ----22. Columnist
Malloy Owens _.------------------------ Columnist

John Stewart —-
Floyd McLean : c
Feature Reporters: Bob Hollister, Lonnie

kins.

Freshmen Reporters: Hartley Hall, Randy Taylor,
Phil Mitchell, Bill Hollister, Scott
Verner, Gray Haiiipton, Frank Purnell, Tom Flipse.
Larkin, Leonard
Boswell, Jolin Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans,

Warren Sims,
Kenneth Jones, Jim Murray, Jim

Pat McGeachy,

. Associate Editor
---- Sports Editor
_ Managing Editor
_ Managing Editor

Staff Photographer
Assistant Photographer
Turnip-
seed, Dave Gambrell, Bill DuBose. Bruce Kendall.
Bill Bogart, Charles T, Davis, Bob Wells, Art Jen:

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, April 30, 1948

lhe DAVIDSONI AN Presents

EDITORIALS...LETTERS...FEATURES

it will be what your support and contribu-
tions make it.

Ina student body as large and as talented
as our own, there shonid be quite a few men
who are interested in creative writing and
who like to put their ideas down on paper.
llowever, literary societies and the societies
that foster. future Willie Shakespeare's
have not run into an overabundance of
them, especially among the present sopho-
more aud junior elasses. Every graduate of
a liberal arts college should have some
kuagvledge of writing and some experience
in éxpressing his ideas through the medium
of the written word, Especially are profes-
sional men—-among whom Davidson men are
supposed to be leaders—called upon to know
how to write, and a man of letters is an
asset to any society, Here, then, is a chal-
lenge to you, men of Davidson.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

A little “Squirrel” we know wert
to all ‘the parties the Mijis
gave... and got more than a hand-
ful of oysters. Patrick, who grad.
uates soon and can stand the steaim
keeps a pet squirrel handy (to pet.
naturally) and just very recently
has found it extremely necessary (0

ever

Operating Table: ..

The official title of the dances
last week-end was “Davidson Col-
lege Spring Frolicks.” bat fram
aenceforth it shall be known as the
week-end when Outhouse Johns
buddies from Clemson fought the
hatrleai the HUtel Charlotte. These
charming geliows should take their
place alongside of such characters
as George Ennett, Wendell Knox,
‘Two-lTon Maxwell and the like.
Outhouse tried to explain their
actions as the ‘natural esucheranc
of youth,” but after having ob-
served such pranks as swan diving
into a water tuntbler, (only half
filled, too). dropping suiteasds from
a tenth story willow, onc musi
join the house in
saying, “what manner of men are

sources (unreliable due to circum
stances beyond A, AJ control, the
Smith establishment was the scene
of a pre-dance partecec, Have you
heard the one about the Catholic
priest and the Jewish rabbi?

A few of the brothers and dates

detective

. Tidbits - vathered - from. unreliable
with

Evans spent a delightiul week-end
commuting trom ihe Minute to the
Queen City Soda Grill,

Fhe Pika brethren gathered to
welconre back one of their honorary
members, Amos Ragan, Although
two other honorary. members, A. C,
Currant and Melio, were unable to
attend, the party was adjudged a
roaring sttecess.,

Some of the boys clid have dates
although Ralph, °The Flush King’?
Alexander was disappointed in isis
endeavors, Many of the lovers have
come back with of their
various conquests, Tlowever, to the
confident Don Juan, we would like
to offer a humble word of advice:

tales

By the time you swear you love.
her

pot to.the dances carly, most of

we

: Js aza a 1 . Cherry a . : P vps ” - + tePmissior Shivering and sighing
Srbling Watt Jefiews, Bill Caesels, Hous Hix, Bill In‘addition to this paper's recent feature | keep such animals “pinned. them were there after intetmission, MVETINE ANS SIRIINE

King, Gene Regan, Dick Morgan, Furman Warlick.

contest, there was held just lately another

and same never did make it, Be-
{tween Ray and the stags the dance

Said Brother Poag, all decked
out in a classy white dinner jacket

And she vows her passion is

« . $ wt find +t
your outldok) “Bastets Bakery, infinite, undying,

contest offering a fifty-dollar prize for the
best paper on world government, The one
eutry walked off with the prize hands down,
without giving the judges so much as a good
aftermoon’s work. There are many Such op-
_portunities on the campus to pick up some

laddie make a note of this
/One of you is lying.

Went. off smoothiy, and then every-
one went straight howe, As some-
one remarked, “Home was never
like this.”

Let's take note of the notables
—at the top of onr list is. Brother
Kanjoy who los} his fraternity pin

vas he rolled up to the banguctyln
that sleck green “eollapse”: “it
doesn’t cost much more to go first
class!" And when he wasn't
keeping the rest of the iraternity
away from his gal. young J. P,
tried valiantly to prove his state:

BUSINESS STAFF

John MecNair_----- ---- Assistant Business Manager
Charlie Reid -.--.--------.--- Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon ~ --- Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter -..--.--.------- Subscriptions Manager
Charles Clinkscales -.... Assistant Adygrtising Mer,
Charles Dockery ~.- Collections Manager
Wilkes Macauley — . Assistant Advertising Mgr.

was in care fonm this week-end.
Ilost Vaxter--he of the guitar —
wis his usual charming self with
his? “li you. think it’s rough now, |
yourought to be at Pawley's this
summer,

“George Mackie Grimball, the
Greenville religions leader, was in
his usual gay ntood over the week-
end, His snappy steties and witty

Duss

Brother Martini Water couldn't

. . : : sae a . sayings as tenal charmed — his
Treen vrlnee _ Acsistant Circulation Nes handy spending money as well as providing -/ment. ww Lottige. ‘Gongratulations tp youd wait for lis dare to get here so De) dienes, When questioned as to

WW Keith 2--- - . tes th awe . . os “8 “OW thoi i -j VR, ; » Taek | race . 20 ao sas . a
Sandy Sprunt . "77 Assistant Circulation Mgr] Ourselves with a valuable tool for later years, Bréther Crowell, who is still try-j poih, Were hoping Brother Jack j raced over to Concord to meet Ue] Ooi ciy George's source for all this

Bob Knight s-

- Assistant-Subscriptions
Charles Beam

Assistant Collections

Advertising Staff

H. MacKethan, C. Faison, Claude Higginbotham.

D, Hayworth, Blaine Kelley, Gene Taylor, W. 5.
McSwain, |

ote

—"" Circulation Staff

Paul Guthery, Sam_ Davis, Bill Cassels, John

Coble, Jim Fisher, Bob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Norvei

Childers, Ted owan, Murray Ashman, Erwin Clark,
Ray Cunninghadn, Bill Mebane.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at
Davidson, North Carolina, under the art of March 3, 1897.

, SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

AEPARGENTEO POR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc. ;

College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Guicaco - Boston - LOG ANGELES - SAW FRancisco

1946 Member 1947

Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of «

Collegiate Digest

é«

THLE = DAVIDSONIAN can not always.
promise the former, but we have nothing so
much as expericnee to offer. .

We might add that Sigma- Upsilon as~}

well as the Phi-and -Eu societies like to fos
{er promising writers, and that work done
for the paper and the magazine is an avenue
of approach to membership in these organi-
zations,

Scripts ‘n Pranks

We offer the congratulations of this sheet
io the editor-elect of the Scripts ’N Pranks.
Mr Meatball Gambrell. Now that the maga-
zine will have come down off the literary
heights of New Yorker styledom and _ re-
verted to the blissful mediocrity of Joe Col-
leve contributions, we of THE DAVID-
SONTAN will feel free. to challenge friend

* Meathall and his staff to the rivalries that

existed of yore between the two publications.
_It_has long Geen the particilar pleasme—

Need For Cooperation

-of editors harassed-by—lack .of inspiration -to_

point to the weaknesses and literary poverty
of this quarterly attempt at humor and

As the new staff takes over the reins

of THE DAVIDSONTAN, we want to thank
the praise-slinging Sam Ervin for getting
us off to a good start and especially for the
five-star build-up he gave us in this column
last weele. Withont Sam's  work-horse
capacity and Fiips exeeutive ability, we
catinot promise as sterling a product as
these two have pit out this vear, Ifowever,
we will hold to the slogan founded, with

die paper in 1915.—'for a better Davidson

and try to maintain the standards fiat these
iwo have set so well this vear.

_We have to pay tribute to these two for
the wey they Have set mp a working
ynechanism under entirely new ¢onditions.
The opening of a print shop here in town
has paved the way for a better DAVID-
SQNEAN with inore of the “‘uews’’ clement
by giving us a later deadline and con-
sequently more ‘‘seoops.’’ But it has talled
for a lot more planning and work on the part
of the editors, and we take off oar hats to
these two for the efficient way dn-avhich they

Prince handled the situation,

Now that we have facilities for getting
some
tion of the different organizations in pre-
senting all possible news through THE
-NAVIDSONTIAN, Now, at a time when most
organizations are thinking about new of-
ficets for the coming vear, we. would like to
ask the leaders of the respective groups to
elect or appoint some sort of public relations
officers who could see to it that the edi-
torial staff is informed of all news-worthy
evenis. Sueh a policy should prove beneficial
both in inereasing the efficiency of your
paper, and in getting your organization's
activities into the public eye. .

Also we would like to encourage any
prospective journalists to feel free to add
their contributions from week to week. We

—-only_have_one more_issue_this spring and_

its spate will be limited, but starting in the
fall, we will welcome any attempts that any-

body. may want to make, There must be |

more members of the student body interested
in taking an occasional crack at creative
wrilirfy than was,evidenced by the feature
~ contest-heid recently: Ht is your paper'and

—and 10 -hold our peace when praise is de-

.issue, can be used, pro, con, or status quo.

seoops.'’ we want to ask the coopera- .

frivolity. And had it not been for the 2odd-
ing of DAVIDSONTAN editors

ing to. explain to his gist the du-
ference between an airplane and
a potfor, cannet bring himseli to
decently answer her incessant ques:
Gonm—But Giles, what a portar?"
Thank. goodness we_-knaw! oe

Brother, Newton, our mationally
known = speedster, ound himselt 4
completely out-classed when he got
into an undiplomatic, though in-

train, Sweet Chartier attended ©.
Ks money and banking class and 4

Was

rementibers witieh one he gave it te
Pledge Colkitt and Pat put ‘on an-

these
That delightiul palace of pleasure
or den of iniquity (depending on
other jitterbug dance for the group,

heard to .observe alterwards

Quoth. Beb, “Aryene could do { “that mustache,’
it if you'd had what 1 had? Clara Rabert — Monday, Wednesday
LWwaeloving al. the nays —generous--and—lEridayssl ite, —not—to—be

tainted by undergraduate gayclics,
withdrew into “realm out of space.
out of time,” Greensboro, N.C.

soul that she is. Brother McNait
to have melied in Janes’
arms, What a mess that must have
been. At any rate ‘dae took her back

triguing race with Urother Via for
possession of “lover Hoy's” local
ftalent. Said Hotfoot Md: “The just
had a headstart on me at the curve.”
Said Via. in a husky whisper, “A!
I know 1 owe -to my second wile.”

Hopped-Lp Dowd and Slick

Think It Over

to Converse Sunday afternoon,
Brother Warlick has a fascinating:
hew game called “Tlorserace.’’ Just
the thing jor mixed company, Ann,
from Erskine, held a stag party m

her room fate , Saturda night.
y : Draft News

Frenchy, also held up considera.
bly by dangerous curves and the
unbearable heat, finally made it to
the dance at ten tll uwelve, Snod-
grass, who turned in a fine MC
job at the formal banquet, was un-
duly thankful that Freneh and fu
are of the Hrotestant faith.

PI KAPPA—-PHt———_

The Pi Kapps.went all out for
the Spring lrolies, “A, large num.
ber_of_the brothers, all cquipped

Erothers Seott and Gragg were ap-
parently the only ones invited:
Hrother Stroup will never—forgive
himself for going to sleep so early
Sunday morning. Among the na-
lure loving group that saw the sun
rise were Brothers .Hamm, 'Mc-
Duffie, Wester, Grube and dates.
Our sympathies go out to Brother
Cunning who got -his middie
finger mashed in a car door—so he

says,

We understand that.basic ROTC
will Mot be considered cause’ for ex-
emption from the new draft, Mem-
bers of the reserves of the various
armed forces will, of course, be
exempted, and so jar we've heard
of no move to mobilize reserves.
(Nearest reserve recruiting offices
are in the near-by Queen City).

Unsanitary
Water fountains from which the

with beautiful dates, were On “hand
for this fine afiair.

Bill_Cassels. and. Johnay Coble
journeyed about a thousand miles
in order to procure two very yor-

natured nagging

through the years, it is a pretty safe bet that
the Scripts ‘n Pranks would“not have gotten
as Far as it has today.

We pledge ourselves again this year to
keep a friendly lookout for our sister pub-
lication—to set a good example when a good
example is necded, to furnish friendly
nagging when Friendly nagging is needed,

served.

.

Traditions

“Tradition” is a word of much repute at
Davidson. It really gets around. It is the first
argument thought of for any side of any

And by the time the question of tradition is
settled, most arguments are over, a

Several new traditions have sprung up or
have been revived this year, Tradition was
thwarted to some extent and many people
were somewhat dismaved when Spring Serv-
ices took an untraditional turn toward con-
temporary problems and applied Christian

diving. There is no denying, however, that

they stirred up more interest in other
cireles, :

A long standing tradition was revived in
the fraternity sing Tuesday night. In prewar
days, this event brought many visitors to the
campus and promises to do so again if the
fraternities maintain the interest they have
shown this year. Senior-Faculty Day is
another fine old tradition which, enables the
students and the faculty to get to know
each other, at long last, just before gradua-
ion. +~—- . :

The ‘‘D’’ Club Foolies has become a
tradition now by virtue of its two-year
stand. It’s here to stay. In fact, the ‘‘D”
Club. is in danger of extinction or ex-com- .
munication the first year it fails-to come
through with a-good show.

The Beaver Club this year is reviving

an old tradition—the Senior Auction. On the_

Tuesday afternoon before exams, Auctioneer

J. D. Ashmore will auction off the private

effects of members of the Senior Class to the ‘
music of Uncle Dave's jug band, *

5 LT
ee,

—_{ water_bubbles. straight_up and_ialls
from the drinkers mouth back on
the source of the spout are germ

TS EETASTHETA PI-

On Sunday night, May 18, Beia
diands and hearts were extended to
the brathers”” of Sigma: Alptiz
Epsilon who were our guests for |

and effective type. In. Chambers,

geous young damsels. Bill reports

that the trip down was , rather
boring, lpatatiingg. werg v-e-1-¥
cozy oO e return

‘Mit Lander arrived at the dance
in a big new ‘48 Cad with alf the
trimmings and W, S. McSwain, jor
whorimsthe Relles calls, accompanied
him on this trial run.

Miss Janne Fair was sponsor for
E. B, Hunter, our new ‘president,
and Miss Mary Frances
was ‘sponsor for Walter
Dobson showed up with angs”
and Hunter Boykin escorted the
IT's sister.

Billy Houck, Bud Edwards. Datv
Tyler, Berwyn Rush, Till Cleve-
land, Frank Niblock and Kay Me-
Cain were all present, with—their
“Queens,”

The other. dealing dDrothers had
betles from all over Disieland and
we must say “they realiy done
good!" 7 : -

PI KAPPA ALPHA

“Operator, room 420 or 1032 of
249 or—no, it makes no: difference.
There'll be a Pika in all of them!"
And so there .was! The Do-Do
Bird that usually gathers informa-
tion: for this column was a little.
more do-do than usual over the
week-end and was physically un.
able to make all the parties; how-
ever ,at the ones he did make, he
felt: right at home because every-
ane there was acting a little like
a Do-Do Bird. To be matter of
fact_.the only information — he
turned in was that the whole week-
end was kinda do-do—but oh! what
fun! o _°

The Pikas spent most of the first
afternoon “getting ~ their girls
squared away and trying to have
duplicate keys made to their rooms,

Harney.
Walker,

“R

a nn

-Watts, ‘and-probably other--build--
ings, this older and most unsani-.-
tary, type fountain head is used. We
believe these fountains run a good
chance of deserving the credit for
many of the “unaccountable! colds |

an hour of cating, sitiging and good
iclowship, Beta Thea Vio has
initiated] a pofiey of inviting one
Iraterniiy @ month toa Sunday
night feed, with the hope of stimu-
lating more triendship and under-

standing between the social fra- that are going the rounds. Why

ternities on this eampas. Having |"! replace. them with angular
. i)

already had the Fijigs and the spouls:

SAK 's, we look forward to having Signed Ballots

cach of you sometime in the future. We have heard some criticism of
—ltis_with_pleasure umat we an-jthe old requirement that voters
nouncay the, recent initiation of

K n sign their ballots. One does wonder
Henry’ Shaw of Raleigh, N.C.

what purpose this requirement
and Murray Ashman of Norfolk, | serves that a careful issuing of one

Va, ballot per student or the precinct
The walls of “ole Reta house are | system could not accomplish bet-

still reverberating ‘with the sounds | ter, Soviet citizens are required to
of revelry as another big|sign their ballots. Americans are
Spring Eroties fades into men |not. A worthy minor reform for
orics for those who were fortunate | pext yearts council, The cortpletely
enough io be hiessed with feminine | secret ballot is an essential guardian
companionship. the memories are, | of democracy.

no «doubt, pleasant ones. For the} Congratulations to the election
inevitable “Bird-dogging stags, the |board for a hard job well’ done.
memories were perhaps a little frus-} And, congratulations, winners!
trating,

Brother Cal Senmidt deelares tast ‘A-Men —~ _
week-end to be the most important Honorable Editor Sam Ervin's
of his college career,-for Miss Jaie editorial last week calling for close,
McNair, of Converse, now is the {active support of THE DAVID-
joint-owner of Cal’s Beta shield. |SONIAN by the college and- stu-
Our ‘best wishes go to Cal and |dent body gets a hearty a-men

need something. If everyon@PMid
see how the editors work to get
out this sheet, a good many might
be shocked, as we were. The Eng.
lish Department gave-the campus

a lovelier sweetheart.

Among the othen‘steady’? cases
who claimed that they came to the
dances to dance bur whose actions
behed their words, were George ° .
md “Catay.” Shep and Maria, dramatics movement a-real shot in
Serugss and Mary, Edgar and the arm recently, -If they ‘youd
Joanne, Sam J, and Diane, and ;come to the rescue of our News-
Count Lyday and Sheriy: paper by offering credit for articles

The Saturday night banquet at printed, a larger number of persons
thé Ship Ahoy with Brother Chal. | vould contribute. And,” too, like
mers Davidson at the helm was a| 54 Sez,” mohey doesn't grow
howling’ success. * on trees, So some of! that would
help, too.

ov)

A Free Italy?

_ .__-The Poll-cat a “Th celebrating the recent defeat

By DAVID SONIAN
| Would you_favor having the quarter system a

of. Communism in Italy, we as
Americans, should remember that
: Italy still falls far short of being
.a—~ democratic— country —Great-|

Davidson? “ estates own huge areas of land on

‘ YES , NO Undecided | which peasants work with no. hope

Students -.----_. 66.4 pet. 28.6 pet. 5 pct. of independence. This feudal sys-

Pacnlty and ya tem. is. supported. by Roman.
Administration _-. 44 pet. 48 pet. 8 pet. 2

Catholicism and is the main cause

spreaders of about the imost direcery

Jane. Beta conid wot have acquired | from this spot, We very evidently 4!

art, one casual observer, remarked:

There is @ young man named
Macky

Whose sayings
wacky ~ -

When asked to explain

Hell always refrain-—

The jokes are all Taylor's Vy ~
cracky.

always

gre

—

By MALLOY OWEN

of Italian Communism. Lets hope
sonrething will be done to give
them real-democracy, or they may
yet turn to real Conunuism.,

(D)————

TELEVISION STATION
HAS HIGHEST LIGHT IN
WASHINGTON, D. C.

WASHINGTON, D.C. (1.P.)—
The highest light7in the nation’s
capital now shines from the tele-
vision tower of WMAL.TV on the
campus of the American University
high above the Potomac. River.
With a million dollar new studio,
tower, and transmitter, the station
is the first especially designed tele-
vision station. Witla staff of-40c-
WMAL-TV° originates the trans-
mission of events which are mak-
ing history in this city.

Already with one of the most
‘conyplete radio curriculums, the
University this fall will expand: its
curriculum in television and elcc-
tronic physics. Perhaps the most
important program is presently to
go_on_the air when the Amerivan
University with the co-operation of
the -Uinited States Department of
State presents ("America’s Foreign
Policy.” :

This will be a weekly show trans-
niitted over the television network
of- The -American Broadcasting
Company. The program is planned
and produced by Paul-F, Douglass,
president of the University, in co-
operation with State Department
experts, the University faculty, and
WMAL-TV staff members.

DRINK

TIP
TASTY

TOPS ON THE CAMPUS

LOCAL TRAILWAYS
AGENT OF OUR
ATTRACTIVE
SERVICE

Queen : City
Trailways _|

417 W. 6th St.
Charlotte, N: i

“

