FRIDAY, SEPTEMER 30, 1949

PAGE TWO — THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDSTOR IN CHIEF --...... BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF Fd

ween meen n ee ene ee Associate Editor

fack Heaza re Teen e veer eeeeea= Associate Editor
Lonnie Turnipseed -.....--------- Associate Editor
Arnie Covell -.....--..---------- Managing Editor
Bill Cumming .----.------.------ Managing Editor
Hartley Hall ...------.---------- Managing Editor
Neil Leach ....-....----.----- —- Managing Editor
Tom Mann ... -....------------- Managing Editor
im Murray --.--_.----- Lseesean Managing Editor
andy Taylor . _..---.--------- Managing Editor
Gordon Scott .___.----------------- Sports Editor
ohn Hobart ...-... .- 9 ------------ City Editor
john Haller _......----_--------- Exchange Editor
Watt Jeffries .....-._...--------- Exchange Editor
Bill Hollister ....-..-------------- Make-up Editor
Dan McKeithen -.....-------.---- Make-up Editor
Cherry Stribling ------. . ------- Make-up Editor
Bilt King --.-.----.---..-------------- Art Editor
Gabe Lowe .-.---.-------—------------- Columnist
Liston Mills ........---_ ---------------- Columnist
Henry Wilson ..---.-.----------------- Columnist
Henry Hansen ..-.--------------------- Columnist
Charlie Davis .-.--.-----..------------- Columnist

SENIOR REPORTER: ‘Pete Kalogridis, Phil
‘ Mitchell, Dick Barnwell, Phil Libby, Bill Neal, Ed
Richardson, Jim Fickeisen and Gene Regen.
REPORTERS—Warren Sims, Dudley Pendleton,
Nat Daniel, Jim Blackburn, Bob Hubbell, Lamarr
Hinson, Tom Allen, George McMurray, Manly Mc-
Williams, Ben Morris, Bil! Bacon.
SPORTS STAFF—Furman Warlick, Bill) White,
Phil Hammond, Bryan Robinson, Ed West, Bill
Buckey, Jack Stevenson.
POLL CAT STAFP—Jim Carr, Claude Higgin-
botham, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown and
Neal Underdown. cy
WHEATHER. REPORT—Trew Gurley and Bill
argent. °

|

BUSINESS STAFF

Bill Cassells ....-...- Assistant Business Manager
Wiley Smith ....--------.--. Advertising Manager
Rod Shaw .....-..------.- Advertising Manager
W. S. McSwain ..:_ Assistant Advertising Manager
Cam Faison .-....-- Assistant Advertising Manager
Hugh Huffaker --.-.-.--~---- Circulation Manager

Ansley Moses Assistant Circulation Manager
John Loftin Collections Manager
Alex Goley -..---...---.-.. Subscriptions Manager

ASSISTANTS—Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Bob Erwin,
Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw, ;
Gene Taylor, Nelson Tomlinson.

CIRCULATION STAFF—Alex Goley, Parks Dal-
ton, Cecit Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill
Underdown, Tommy Haller, John Hardin, Thad Mon-
roe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul
Guthry and Phil Willer.

Entered es second-class matter ef the Pest Office at
Davideoa, North Carolina, under the art of March 8, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

ATPRESENTED POR NATIONAL AGVEATICING BY

420 MADISON Avg. New Yoan. N. Y.
Qureaso - PeeTon - Lot Anseses - B4R Poancisco

Member 1949

Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of
Collegiate Digest

1948

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

A Student Center

As the work on the new gymnasium nears
completion. everyone is looking forward to
moving out of the ‘‘cracker box’’ into the
new facilities. At the same time we begin
to wonder what is to become of. the old
gym: Certainly its usefulness as to the ath-
letie department is gone, as it is so out-
moded and indeed supplanted. However. the
building is still in fairly good condition
and can be used to good advantage for the
student body. No doubt others have thought
of this, also, but I would like to express my
views on this all-important subject.

It seems to me that the old gym could
very effectively be turned into the much
needed student center. At least it could take
the place of one until the Development Pro-
gram supplies a permanent structure for the
students. In the first place, the gym woul
be an excelfent place for the YMCA. A
present its facilities in the Guest House are
‘rather limited. The offices of the YMCA
seeretary could be moved into a more cen-
tral position in this building. Also, the now
sorely inadequate recreational facilities
could be expanded. Namely, more ping pong
and pool tables could be purchased -and
placed in the old gym. Now, as everyone
knows, it is practically impossible to play
more than one game of ping pong at a time
and that only after a long wait. If these
recreational facilities were expanded and —
placed in the gym, more of the students
could participate and take advantage of
these opportunities.

Since this building is direetly on the way
from the boarding houses to the dormitories,
I believe that the Y would soon become a
place of leisure for the students. This in

turn would make the work of the YMCA
more effective on the campus. In short, it
would place the Y in the center of student
activities, which I think all will agree is
what we want.

In addition’ to the above I should like
to point out certain other possibilities that
may not have been considered until now.
As you may know the Davidsonian has
never had what you could call an office. In
1946, it oceupied one of the smail buildings
on Oak Row. When the system changed so
that the paper was printed in Davidson,
the printer's office became headquarters.
This soon proved inadequate and unsatis-
factory. Last year it was moved to a small,
badly heated shack in back of the Carolina
Inn, where the office now is.

It seems to me that an excellent place for
thegpermanent office of the newspaper would
be in the of gym. The staff could properly
equip such an office and more actively par-
ticipate in student affairs in this centrally
located position. Along this same line, the
other publications could move into. per-
manent offices for the first time in many
years. In this manner the students would
know just where to find the men on each
organization, and could very easily get in
touch with the publications. More men would
be interested in publication work and
the student body would witness‘an inerease
in the quality of publications produced.

Other needs mighv also be met by such a
move on the part of the men who have
charge of disposing of the old gymnasium.
For example, the boys department of the
YMCA is sadly in need pf a place for the
storage Of equipment, along with other de-
partments. One of the present equipment
rooms would serve this purpose very well.
Right now the equipment is stored in a
small closet ‘of one of the students, no one on
the campus having a place to keep it.

Doubtless there are many other organi-
zations whe would like to have a place in
the .gym. There are many other uses for
which this space could be used. Now as we
are preparing to move into the new gym
we should also be making plans for the
best use of the old building. No doubt those
in charge of this disposition are thinking
seriously along these lines. I think I ean
say that the students would be whole-
heartedly in favor of making it into a tem-
porary student center. A student center is
one of the ontstanding needs of Davidson
follege at the present time, and I would
like to see it come into being shortly after
October 22, when the new gymnasium is to
be dedicated—R.L.T.

Letters To Editor

29 Cook Street
Brooklyn 6, N. Y.
September 25, 1949
Dear Mr. Jamerson,
Care Editor, Davidsonian:

I hope you don't think it silly of me writing
you this letter, but after seeing the Army-David-
son game on television,I got a real kick out of
how your team was fighting against such odds.
Your cé-captains really kept their men moving
and never gave in. When I saw the game and
how your team fought so bravely, it brought
tears to my eyes, as it reminded me of ‘the team
work that. we had when I was overseas.

In closing this letter, I'm hoping that I wasn’t
any trouble to you, but I honestly mean what
I said in this letter? Lots of luck, to you and
your team, and here’s wishing you the best for
this season and many more to cone

An Admirer,
IRVING FUTTERMAN.

Davidson, N, C.
September 26, 1949.
To Whom it May Concern:

Me and Ansel Moses wuz up at Shearer ‘Hall
this mornin’ a-talkin’ to Professor Pfohl and the
conversation got around to us makin’ mountain
music up thar in the music buildin.’ We shore
do agree with Professor Pfohl that them stu-
dents a-takin’ music fur credit ain’t gonna do
no practice with us in the same buildin,’ but us
no-credit musicians ort to have a place to prac-
tice. Shearer Hall, in its present dilapidated
condition, even with its impotent heating system,
is good enough for us jakes—but for the real
musicians and the campus of Davidson College
it is a shame and a disgrace. I, along with many
other students and townspeople, think that
Davidson College's greatest need at the present
is an adequate and modern music building. Maybe
even one with southproof walls and a real fur-
nace.

In consideration of the prestige and the
achievements of Davidson's excellent music de-
partment, I think the trustees and administra-
tion should, following completion of the new
gymnasium, build a new music hall—Dsavidson
College’s greatest need.

Sincerely,
HAL HAYNES,

f

d
fo You ‘A 61D

‘HE BROMERS WAVE DECIDED YO EXTEND
IO soccsresqese

/

~

Is Informal Bidding Good or Bad?) -

(Ed's Note: The systemeof informal bidding has provoked much
thought and even more comment, since the termination of rush
week. Thé articles below, whose authors were chosen at random
from the student body, embrace both sides of the question. However,

since the opinions of only two m

en are“expressed, the Davidsonian

would like to welcome the opinions of more students, Anyone de-
siring to express his views is invited to write (and sign) a letter
to the editor. The Davidsonian wants to hear from you!

By JIM COBB

The 1949 rush week is now a
thing of the past, but some stu-
dents have expressed dissatisfac-
tion with the giving of informal
pledging.

The three days of rushing and.
two days of’ silence at the begin.
ning of the period give the fresli-
man a chance to see all of the
fraternities and to \qiieuss any
opinions which he has formed with
his classmates. The final ¢wo days
also have the regular rush parties,
and the giving of informal bids,
does not detract too greatly from
the rush program,

It is foolish to assume that
every freshman comes to David-
son with no knowledge of the in-
dividual fraternities. Some boys
have many friends in a particular
chapter and practically have their
minds made up before coming. The
three days of no informal pledging
give the boys ample time to make
np their minds after seeing all of
the fraternities. Ry accepting an
informal. bid, these boys remain
with theie friends and do not con-
tinue to spend hours with a chap-
ter they have absolutely no inten-
tion of joining. Boys who have no
previous knowledge of the frater-
nities, but who have definitely
made up their minds, are also able
to join up.

The question of obtaining the
proper number of pledges is one
that every chapter must face. Under
the old system, a fraternity could
send out fift} bids and get any-
where from 10 to 40 boys. With

Continued On Page Four)

By KEN GOODPASTURE

A few words concerning this past
fraternity rush week, | think, are
in order. No matter how little real
difference there may be gmong the
fraternities and their ideals on
this campus, it is, nevertheless, of
utmost importance that a young
freshman join a fraternity whose
members he will feel close to-and
whose members will feel compati-
ble with him. This freshman is
spending a lot of time, energy, and
money to attend four years of col-
lege life, and he wants to obtain
the most he can from his invest-
ment. This is sound judgment and,
therefore, he wants to ally himself
with the fraternity which he will
enjoy the most and the one which
will help him the most.

It has been long considered that
‘one week is entirely too short a
time for fraternity and rushee to
become acquainted. It has been
| proposed to have rush week in
the second semester which involves
another set of complications which
are not to be discussed here. How.
ever, with the majority im agree-
ment that the rush week is -al-
ready too short, I contend that the
matter of informal ‘bidding and
“hot-boxing” during the Jast two
days cuts the “getting-acquainted’’
time down still) further. I am
speaking mainly from the rushee’s
viewpoint. In actuality, the rushee
-shakes a lot of hands the first
three days, and then the last two
he is shoved into a corner and high
pressured. I have heard many fresh-
men say that the “hot-box” sub.

(Continued on Page Four)

FLIGHT TO

Faced with -the necessity of re-
porting on the N. Y. trip which !
didn’t ‘make, IT cornered some of
the athletes and by putting their
stories together I got the fllow-
ing account:

The first thing that was different

‘about this trip was that we all

wore coats and ties instead of the
traditional D.C.A.A. “T’’ shirt with
holes in it, long a characteristic of

Wildcat ball clubs on the road. We

arrived at the airport about 9 a. m.
and were placed on one of two
large green and silver airplanes, ac-
cording to our status, offensive or
defensive. A cameraman outside
held up*the loading for a while,
‘cause some guys on this ball club
a camera draws like a magnet, and
they wouldn't get in as long as it
was there. Hostesses on the planes
were as follows: offensive—Dick
Redding; defensive—Charley Park-
er and The Chief Justice (who
made his debut as athletic director
of the Institute). The windows
were too small for jumping out,
so once they got you in there and
closed the door you stayed with the
ship, sink or swim. We took off
like a big bird, fortified with air-
sick pills from Doc Wood's medi-
cine chést. It was a long way down
anyway you looked at it. Everyone

NEW YORK

was soon asleep, save the coach-
ing staff which produced the cards
and started in. General opinion has
it that if they were on 4d rotten
log heading down the rapids to.
ward Niagara Falls, they'd still
whip out the cards and light in.

We landed in Washington and
while we ate, witnessed a quiz pro-
ram with two loud fat men as
masters of ceremonies and three
middle-aged women as contestants.
The offensive team suffered its
first casualty when a right end
was injured getting off the air-
plane.

Flying through a fog we finally
reached N. Y., which was con-
siderably colder; and were con-
veyed by an ancient bus some 18
miles over the Catskills to West
Point, its grey towers rising
against the cliffs of the Hudson.
Some conclusions about the Point:
Everybody hustles alt the time and
plebes have to hustle twice as much
and with two wrinkles in their
chin, Its really big. “Everybody
plays on some kind of team every
afternoon and they all have uni-
forms—they played some games
we didn’t know. They had a field
house as big as-two cow pastures.
You couldn’t bag anything to eat.

(Continued on Page Four)

lhe DAVIDSONIAN Presents

DITORIALS...LETTERS.

.. FEATURES

| Among The Greeks

SPE

Following Mr. Robert's rules of
parliamentary procedure Mr, Tram.
mell calls to order the regular
Thursday night meeting of N. C.
Epsilon chapter of Sigma Phi
Epsilon with les petites mots
“Knock it off!” and a cadenza of
the gavel. His expression is very
stern as he nods to Lilly for the
minutes which are read at this
time. Ae report from Liew-
tenant Humphries for some sug-
gestions for bettering N. C. Epsi-
lon which he learned at the many
conferences for the same purpose
at the National Conclave in Chi-
cago is requested, and since he
can't remember anything and since
he was sent up there to learn
something he is booed in his seat.
Sgt. Clenseur with lowered eyes
appeals to the brothers to dispense
with the disorder and procede with
the business to which Dixon and
Morton assent as they would like
to. play a grudge match in table
tennis after the meeting.

“We need a new rug.’’ observes
Mr. Trammell above the tumult
of the dispute between Roddey and

Hunter as to whether Brooklyn's
team was wholly composed of
Rock Hill boys; between Sgt. Ca.
how and Flipse as to whose music
brings the. most tears to the eyes
—Mousskorsky or Acuff; between
Mills and MacDonald as to whose
home town has the biggest cotton
mill; between Taylor and Hart as
to who has the, numbest brain.
Capt. Kester pouts because of a
caustic remark from someone that
he can't play football. Daniels,
Miller and Howe don't say any-
thing.

“The scholarship committee did
a good job last year,” Mr. Tram-
mell commends (referring to the
winning of the scholarship trophy
by the SPE’s). Morton  com-
mends Plaster for knowing the
best looking women in Winston
but jeers at his inability to latch
on to any for himself. “George
Brown knows some fine women,
also,” adds Lieut. Humphries.
Clark (C. P.) asks how many are
going to have dates for home-
coming and whether to have a
banquet or breakfast, and Clark

(Continued on Page Four)

. And so it has arrived—another
Salem Day. For weeks the plans
hdve been in the making, and now
it is a stark reality. Ill he a
great week end.

The list was posted on the bul-
letin board and hordes of hungry
| males were seen milling around
the names of the lovelies. All
sorts of good advice was given to
the naive freshmen—"You should
sign up with Susie Snapdragon,
she’s really a queen.’’ And the
illustrious friend and counselor
was right; she will be a queen—
of the Uhangies. You'll love her
though. ; .

Then there were some who are
seeking poetic names. These are
the ones you. hear muttering to
themselves—"“Viola, my that has
a -certain, well, you might say,
musical quality. Then again it
has a light and gay appeal.” But
when ovr seeker of sophisticated
surnames sees his flower with the
musical quality, he will be amazed
to find another Porky Pig, who
waddles rather than walks, and
whose only musical quality is her
tesemblance to a bass drum. But
you'll have fug

But enough.on the selection of
the slinking sex. Let us now

HELLO FROM L. O.

By LISTON MILLS .

hasten on to speculate on the ar-
rival of our friends from the neigh-
boring institution.

The busses will pull in and 200 -
pairs of eyes will turn and watch
them approach Chambers, coming
to a rather sudden and undigni-
fied stop. Then the species of pul.
chritude will venture ‘forth; one at
a time, mind yon, and careful not
to trip the ones on crutches. The
man with the list (a rather blood-
thirsty and cynical person who en-
joys seeing people in agony) takes
his position of prominence to call
forth-the men as their dates (?)
trip gaily down the steps and into
eager and waiting arms. Theyre
all ‘cute though.

Then, buddy she’s yours. Maybe
you'll be fortunate and get a num-
ber with only two false teeth. Or
better still, perhaps your raffle
ticket will pay off in a big way
and your turkey will know the art
of gin rummy.

Regardless, we would like to
seize this opportunity to wish all
of you luck, and to offer sincere .
condolences to those who will, for
an unknown cause, remain indis-
posed for the game. But remem-
ber, they're 100 per cent young
American women.

ed

\College Rags In Brief

By TOMMY

We are introducing this column
with the desire to keep our readers
among the student body informed
of the news of other. schools: Our
principle source of information is
throngh their publications, so to
those of you who are ‘wheels’ some
of the “dope” in this column may
be old stufft

First I would like to pass on a
bit of information that I picked up
from a charming young lady at
Queens College, which might well
be kept in mind at our forthcom-
ing dance set. It seems that she had
gotten the impression that at our
dances the men in a fraternity
would dance only with the dates
of their fraternity, regardless of the
number of friends she might have
at the dance. Now we know that
this isn’t a hard and fast habit,
but maybe we do have tendencies
toward it. Maybe if you wolves and
snakes did a little wider range
operating, more enjoyment would
be in store for all!

Up at W. & L., they have al-
ready begun to petition the faculty.
they want to make some com-
promises which include the follow-
ing points: Students will agree to
exert themselves to answer exam
questions if the faculty will agree
to assign questions that cover no
more than ten centuries; students
will agree not to leave class while
Professor is lecturing if he will
terminate at the end of assigned
‘hour; students will agree to study
between assigned tests if the
faculty will agree to give warning
of pop quizzes; students will agree
to faculty using canned notes as
long as the speed -of reading is
held down to 60 w. p. m. (words
per minute); students will agree to
look presentable for classes if
faculty will engage one woman to
walk around the campus once a
week (would something like that

HALLER

work here?); students will agree
to stay awake in eight o'clock
classes if the faculty will agree to
read bedtime stories in four o'clock
classes; students will not overcut
(get this) if faculty will let them
take as many cuts as they want;
Students will agree to refrain from
blowing themselves and the science
building up if the science depart.
ment will agree to stop making the
Students experiment with the atom
bomb (for the benefit of the Logan,
Gallent, Thies fans). .

Smart Folk

Twenty of the forty-eight mem-
bers of the September graduating
class at Georgia Tech have a point
average above 3.0, which average
places a student on the Southern
Technical Institnte’s honor roll.
One must conclude that the class
has some pretty smart folks in it.
The class average is 2.75, and the
range is from 1.61 to 3.87.

Southern California

You may think it is crowded in
Davidson, but the students at the
University of Southern California,
are howling about a lamentable
congestion that leaves even less
than elhow room.

University of Oklahoma

Apparently anything goes under
the hending “Intramural Com-
petition,” at the University of
Oklahoma. This. did: A tilter’s
tournament, for which a brand new
pinball machine has been ynveiled.
The Oklahoma Daily reports that
each year the Sigma Chi's, and the
Phi Gams battle for champion team
honors with an over-sized plastic
beer bottle as the prize.

The’ tiltérs tourney gets plenty
of campus support, too, and_ is
staged complete with brass band
and cheering section, team trainers
and managers in tuxedoes, and
hairy-legged men-queen candidates.
Gotta nickel?
