ALL THE WAY
WILDCATS

|

Volume XXXVII

ALENDA

LUX UB)

Che Davidson

ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDS(¢ IN COLLEGE,

DAVIDSON, N,

C,, FRIDAY MARCH 4,

Wan

LET’S MAKE IT TWO

HOLIDAYS!

149

STUDENT BODY EXCEEDS $40,000 GOAL

H. L. Shaw Returns

To Campus, Awards
Vereen Bell Prize

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS
TO MAKE PRESENTATION

Harry L. Shaw, distinguished
alumnus of Davidson, will ar-
rive on thé campus on Tuesday,
Mareh Sth. Mr. Shaw, returns
Davidson for the tvotfold
purpose of judging the Vereen

lo

Bell Contest and for speaking:

to professors who would like to
have some of their work pub-
lished. Mar. Shaw will speak in

chapel on Wednesday morning and
tFeliver the Vereen Vell Award to
the winner of the Vereen Bell Con
test at that time.

Harry Shaw, class of 1926, is a
member of Vhi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa, and Sigma
Upsilon. He has served as profes-

sor of University of
South Carolina and New York
Hevhas also held the
] ook
wud Harper and Brothers
Mr. Shaw
Who
taking his AJL
1926, Mr. Shaw

two years doing graduate

English at the
Uni
versity. posi-

tion of editor with magazine,
For sey
eral years has been listed
“Who's
After

Davidson

in in Ameriea.”
at

spent

devrec
in
work and

teaching at the University of South
Carolina, where he took his M. A.
depree in 1927, Krom there My

Shaw went to New York University

~vhere he was professor of lnyvlish,
work
University 1938
:- direetor of the Federal Writers
in New York,
Workshop
1937

large

al-o domg more graduate at

Columbia In he

Licject and director
in Compositon

1942
group of professional
Mr,

and

CY Uae,

toon through working

with a

and semi-professional writers.

Shaw wae an associate editor

research for
1943 Was
1943 1944
Shaw served as
1947, Mr.

in charge

of editorial
1942
edtor in
"4410 47 Mr.
editorial Since

darector

Look in and and
Inanaging and
Prom
director,
been” editor

Snaw has

of collection of books with Flarper

|

and Brothers.

Mr. Shaw has written and pub- |
lished a number of books, among
which are “Wrighting and Re-
writing, “A Complete Course in
iiglish.” “Harper's Handbook oi
English’? (with Marquis Ek. Shat
tuck), “Reading the Short Story”
(with Douglas Bement), ®and
‘Americans One and All (with
Ruth Davis). Also Mr. Shaw has

frequently to

Literature,

contributed articles
the Saturday Review
North American
view of Reviews.

of

Review, and Re-

Davidson Students
Work With Scouts

Four scout troops and a cub pack

in Davidson and Cornelius have /
been aided in their programs this
year under the auspicies of the
YMCA scouting department. The

boys who work in this field act as
assistants to the local scoutmasters
and have done an excellent job this

year. 8

Al Gerhardt and Watt Jeffries
have worked with the local colored
troop while the white troop was
helped during the first semester by
Gordon Finley=.Flynn long and
ruece Davis served as both scout-
master and assistant in the Cor-

nelius white troop, and Don Coffey,
head of the scout work, has*worked
with the
I:verett Blake has served as a den
chief in the local cub pack.

The activities of

Cornelius colored boys

these in-
clude the showing ofmevies,leading
in-Zames and songs,

the

boys

passing tests;

advising scoutmasters, ete.

Swims are taken in the Charlotte

“Y land springtime overnight hikes
are being planned.
In the ‘past these scout troops

have been an asset to the recreation-

al life of the Christian youngsters

of these two communities, and un-
doubtedy will continue to do so in

the future.

Development Drive Leaders Survey fheriGentel’s Rise

w

Herb Meza ie shown above marking up the latest gains made in the Student Campaign of the

Davidson College Development Program,

as Carl Pahl, student body president, looks on. The students

have already attained their con of $40, 000 and it is expected wee this CL will be greatly exceeded.

Variety Of Modern Athletic Equipage To!
Davidson New Gymnasium

Be Offered In

By ED RICHARDSON
lhe completion of the new gym-

nasium will be expected around the

first of November if all) goes well
with the work. This ts due to the
rapid progress in the construction

the building,

surprisimely

of accompanied with

suitable weather,
Originally scheduled for completion

] ;
around January Ist, the’ Work is al-

ready over sixfweeks ahead of shed- | ideal building for both intramural
ule. and intercollegiate athletics. The
tefore thd war, when the price} big basketball court will seat ap-
of cave low. the estimated | proximately 2,000 people. The seats
cost of thgZedifice was put at $270, | can be folded away, making enough
O00, Hotvever, due to the sharp.| room for two courts, in order that
rise if the cost of materials, the | the freshinan and varsity teams may
liguré rose to over $800,000, This | practice at the same time. Also on
4 the same floor space, badminton,

* volley ball, and one-walled hand-

T ty Men Seek ball courts can be set up. An
F auxiliary gym on the lower level
will furnish quarters for all types

éreen Bell Award

With the turning in of thirty com-

positions by various members of

the student body on or before March
Ist, the
nounced

English Department an-
that the Bell
\ward contest was well under way.

Vereen

The seven members of the Eng
lish Department have already begun

their reading and grading of each
entry. At the completion’ of
this grading by all the department,
those entries which have been
graded highest by the majority of
the members shall be turned over
next Tuesday, March 8th, to the
noted college editor for Harper and
Brothers, Mr. Harry Shaw, who
will arrive on the campus Tuesday
for the purpose of selecting the
Winning composition from the group
presented to him by the English
Department.

Mr. Shaw, before attaining his
present position, served as_ profes-
sor of composition at New York
University. For many years he has
been considered one of the top-
ranking judges of literary com-

position,

Mr. Shaw will announce the win-
ner of the Vereen Bell ward in
chapel Wednesday, March 9,

it was lowered
removing
the
in the plans.

being too much
$600,000 by
luxuries

to;

some of the
that

were no majo:

in building were
There
construction taken out
the

possibility

items in the

of the plans. However, in near

that
these removed luxuries will be added

future there is a
tothe gym after completion

This new gymnasium will be an

of gymnastics. There will be a large
dressing room for the entire student
body that will accommodate a peak

load of 250 people. This will have

the basket type locker system.
Besides ordinary rooms, such as
coaches’ offices, lecture rodms

equipment and supply rooms, men’s

and women’s lounges, _ training
rooms, drying rooms and_ locker
rooms for nearly every sport here,

the gym will house separate rooms
for wrestling, boxing, weight lift-
ing, plus a trophy room. The big
feature . will a regulation size
swimming pool which is 75 by 28
In addition there in the
four-

he

feet.
blueprints,

are
plans for three
walled squash and handball courts,
and a room equipped with an in-
door-golt-driving-range:

In-al, there will be playing space
and locker room facilities for basket-
ball, volleyball, hand-
ball, wrestling,
Woxinie weight lifting and gym-
nastics. A corrective exercise room

swimming,
squash, badminton,

will be available also for those who
are physically handicapped.

It has been asked by the manage.
ment of the construction company
on the gym that all the students
and other persons refrain from walk-
ing on the construction.or being in

this
who

the workmen,

progress.

the of

hinders

way

as
Students

wish to see work being done on the

building can do very easily by

watching from the football held

Concert:Dates Set
For Spring Tour

Definite
completed

been
Male

which

arrangements have
the
spring coneert tour,
begins Saturday, March 19,
at North Fulton High
Atlanta, Other
appearances on the itinerary include
Druid Hills Presbyterian Church in
Atlanta on Sunday March
20, . and Decatur Presbyterian
Chureh in that

for Davidson
Chorus
with wa
concert

School in Georgia

morning,
Decatur, Georgia,
evening.

On Monday,
travels to Waynesville,

March 21, the ¢horus
North Caro-

lina; Tuesday, to Asheville; Wednes-
day, March 23, to Johnson City,
Tennessee, and Vhursday, March
24, to Bristol, Tennessee From
Bristol the chorus will go to Dlue-
field, West Virginia, for its final
concert of the tour on Friday eve-

ning, March. 28.

Chorus made
it to South
and Florida,

Last year the Male
which took
Georgia

a
Carolina,
stopping at many of the larger cities
throughout these This year,
Florida been the
states of Tennessee and West Vir-
ginia, and it is expected that many

tour

states,

has replaced by

alumni and friends of Davidson who.
have not heard
will have the opportunity
them on this trip.

Wheather Report

The weather looks good for Friday
night but on Saturday showers
likely to’ develope—the rain
showers will be light and probably
will end before Sunday. With such
prospects in mind, a fair, cold Sun-
day-is forecast. Fair-on Monday.

the chorus before
to hear

are

or

NUMBER TWENTY

FRATERNITIES, CAMPUS

CLUB, INDEPENDENTS

UNITED ACTION RAISES FUNDS REQUIRED FOR
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW GYMNASIUM POOL

Students Pledge $40,244 Toward Development
Drive Program To Date

The Davidson Development Program office officially announeed today that the student body
has reached and exceeded its goal of $40,000 in its fund raising campaign for the Davidson
| ihe ve hee Progr. Based on the datest individual reports from the participating organi-
zations, the combined total ofall the money pledged to date amounts to $40,244. The organ-
zations, with their total amounts pledged: and the percentages of their goals reached thus far

—are as follows:* Beta Theta Pi,

$5980—153 per cent; Pi Kappa Al-

YMCA ACTIVITIES INCLUDE esse" 823
pha, $3092—111 per cent; Sigma

Alpha Epsilon, $2830—83 per cent;

BOY’ 5 WORK: HALL ME u A TINGS Kappa Sigma, $4011—-103 per cent;
Pi Kapa Phi, $4421—$132 per cent;

The. YMC at David built} Hall prayer meeting is ine room] Phi Gamma Delta, $1950—88 eper
mothe foundation of | o are} so and so.” That doesn’t happen} cent; Vhi Delta Theta, $2833—78
ietively inte ‘ i eram. | by accident, for their is a staff of} per cent; Sigma Phi F Yon, $2445
hire om t tber off active hall praver leaders who see 98 per cent; Sigma 2620,
tn tipelesate ee enue eft that—_the—need on them particular | 116 per ceht; Campus ¢
| cine nd talent 4 ‘ un | tloor ts) taken care of. To mention 70 per cent, ahd the Ind
Jani It be carr ! u few, there’s Bob Gay up on the | $2849—63, per cent ;

byes tudent at on is | third floor of West, and Harrison] these figures plus an) anonymous
(Seem swan ol tagein Vaylor over in the cast’ wing ot | silt of $2000, the donor of which
fab teps i on yostu Duke, and Jack Melaney on the} specifying that it be « buted

‘ Phede Hoare helping in} fourth floor of West, ard Malloy | through — the tudent campaign,
ob work 1 the Y Owen down on the first floor of | brings the t int of money
rogram, There's | Ghiesby who] Hast. Vhey and many others are [and pledges raised by the student
Velps in football a ) thall with [helping Orion Hutehinson in’ the | body, as of today, to $40,244
he Davidson -G ) ind Alaa} spiritual development department of Carl Pahl, student body presi
I Graseclose Ne ves down to HMun- | the” % dentin conmicenting: on the Teve
liersville to indle the. ba ketbant) Over across the tracks the com-[ment, said, “The student body
Jactivities there hese are just two}imunity. work department, headed should be commended, and ‘LT hope
of the boys who. are orking witha by new cabinet member York Pharr, | that all the organizations | that
Dave Anderson, tread that de- [is putting on a recreational program | haven't reached their goal as yet
partinent : for the Negroes, W. C, Patton, Bud | will do so by March 15.°
ach We meht the ery | Aiken and VT. C, Coleman have all With competition among the or-
J rae wp abe 10-000 ocloed sit hured in that) work, taking Over] ganizations for tog honors raging
| RPE ee — |ecouchine duties and supervising | with the keenness ofa razor’s ¢ ;
| eapeae aaa ACUIVILY the student campaiun, which started
‘Lollie Pop Weds \t Sunday vespers there is al- | officially with the concert by Tom
yvays a group of workers handing |my Dersey and his orchestra on
out bulletins, taking up the ofter- February 14, has been proceeding
jl M. Terry Bull ind, dnd helping to make the service | since that time at an unusually fast
By JOHN HOBART J runt Off smoothly. Whenever depart- | pace. The Petas, as trom we be-
ea dk oN Wovivdlageciividhdidicllai dpaveand tod Co head kd Hopper has to bef ginning of the drive, are still in
Mati DeReeriennede teint atti away, Bruce rye steps in and takes the lead in totals and Perceniag
proved what students have sus- over. Sandy Morgan, Latta John- Vhe money raised by the student
Weactader or cuit iti neilicntly ton, and fohn Smaot are among hody will be contributed toward the
Me AeA liN TH GI UReTROTIICUIN GSU the steady workers in that depart- | building A an indoor sy
Hiei Rar EURCRNTRE Re oe pool in the new gymnasiut
|“Womank Near enarieanell Recognition should go to ¢ he it was the Official project gt the
Wy the Davidson Lions ‘Club Longenecker who i Davidson's | students, the pool . be dedicated
NTaedagradiniern Ie Penny | Pepresentative on the steering com-|to the Davidson Tie body ot
Hii AMIE MRC ARM eel etl eee oe the Intercollegiate ¢ ouneil the school yeni 1948-1949
Piece Sear ee | fealli@eseann He and John Miller, social action organizations that exceed t
NRE UEC Ghane Ten chairman, serve side by side in] will have their names ¢ 1
bank) and Mi Ferry Bull OM this work, 5 pee MEMES US) PE UUT I y = nae
( fo Both Pleaneeineiniice Those members of the student} of the swimming pool, with the top
TNS ee Great lipnpene Cal body who are active mm leading three PALER being di
Rrevati * Coach © Mele @ Whittle Pecoue troops: in this area are Ted by | tinguished: itt someway from
RUT teai tar ml aelsNe WG tOre cd Don Coffey. Vo mention a few, Al] others
REG CAGET ETT Te Gerhardt and Watt Jeffries work ‘The student campaign ends of-
bean scharacterizédona really. alte ease tO the local colored | ficially on March 135, at which time
GGT NTA Ne aE es EE seoutmaster, and Bruce Davis and }the date for a holiday will be de-
Cea nen Sra UUTinG Une antl Flynn Long serve as assistants to | Gided upon by the student body.
carried a cane. He is known in real the Cornelius Scout leader. aeons
life as Prof. H. E. Fulcher. Ima The biggest job for the head of
Nutt served as the flower girl and piblications of the Y is putting out apie Fraternity
was dressed in a white ruffled dress, | the “Wildcat Handbook.” For the
white bonnet. white sox, and, black | Past year Frank lemmon has served Honors Mr Se ovia
slippers. She ehatioratlen awe petals | i that capacity, with Newt Robert- ' g
around the. place and faintly ,re- 7 Soma we aaa ane PUSHES Ris The honorary Spanish fraternity,
pamibied ron Wa NieaAtebane ications chief. Wilkes Macaulay ER AIAT 4 han ee }
: eee ; Citys s Munnipseed cand Rave (Olas | Sees at neat oeene TECED LOL

Phe town's postmaster, Mr. Si T. Lonnie ur} iid, Aaa HEP RdICATEI EM hOnOnOATi rae

Stough, brought down the house as | bet all helped in getting the "48-49 aes i Sane Oe este
: elissue out. Bill Hamilton and Bill] 2°8 Obes noter BULL LOSES beeen
the jilted woman, Dina Mite. A a : ; | a d Spanish Granada, The reception was
the place in the ceremony where Bune eke been He aeay geo int A laCat eth Guest HSuse Han
the minister asked if anyone know iublication 2 Roast al een diately following the concert pre-
any reason why the bride and groom | King s AUTOR € was A Srss anta sahted bv Mri Saxovia nic maiiheee
should-—not—he—joined-tegether—in|_Claus which knocked thé Christmas wit Sey s See
Gift Fund ringer all the way ou: ALU Ce) LUTE tudent and faculty
wedlock, Dina (really a hot num- | ! Ne ’ members of the fraternity and many
ber boys!) got up and gave a tear | Ob 1S Laake members of the Music Department
jerking Stel of her woe. Reach- pions were present. Refreshments were
ing into her handbag to draw her served under the ’stpervision. of the
gun, Miss Mite flung out many IRC Hears Calhoun hostess res Caldwell:
vieces Of Unmentionable feminine at- =
ure thus causing the partons of the . Sigma Delta Pi is a natis ial or-
slap-stick weddin¥ to ®whoop and On Atlantic Pact ganization that was founded tor the
howl with glee. She had "be pulled RUEROSE of creating ‘interest a ule
away ly a policeman, In a short meeting Tuesday night, Spanish language and a the culty
One a the six bridesmaids was| March 1, members discussed. the ot Spain and the Latin American
Mise Poth nna TT Ne OT one 2 tremtere Detense Paet and HOMME, Vhs chapter here. at
Puckett), who wore a long dress Pnade—plans—for—the—next—meeting: Davidson Was_organized in 1933,
and a bie hit. Jim Sonweed *and |The main part of the program was and since that time has played an
Tecaaleatorat roto \ea\aaGoldiene (mics atiationroftientonicadndawas: Onan ait the SRAEAS Cis
and, Mr. E. J. Awnold, respectively | Presented by Jolin C. Callioun, ricular activities on the campus, he
were two of the groomsmen, and|— 2" a> brief fifteen-minute talk, | Spanish Club mects with this group
were i formal dresse plus beardsd Calhoun stated that the pact was and Tost 0}, the initiates of the
and mustaches. ‘They also wore large | first conceived by General Marshall fraternity are former club members.
colored bow ties and faney cor-| im his Harvard commencement ad- At a regular bi-monthly meeting
sages. One of the gentlemen guests | dress, and has recently been realized | Monday night, seventeen new mem-
was Mr. Lonnie Tick (Dr. Carl R.| it the agreements of Britain, France, | bers were initiated into Sigma Delta
Pritchett). Selgium, The Netherlands, and] Pi. They are: R. W. Adams, Ports-
The cast of 33 included mary of | /-uxembourg. mouth, Va.; J. P.. Barkas, Wilmimg-
the town's prominent. citizens, (Continued On; Page Four) (Continued On Page Four)

