A book could have
beech written on the
games of the Davidson
Wildcats this fall, both
good and bad. And
what an_ interesting
book it would have
made if all the games
had been as exciting as
the finale in Charlotte
Thanksgiving Day. Da-
vidson once .more
showed that they are at
their best when they
play in the spacious
Memorial Stadium in §
the Queen City. Both
the Citadel. and the
Cats played the kind of
ball that kept the fans on the edge of their seats, and what the
game lacked in fundamentals, it certainly made up in excite-
ment.

By GORDON SCOTT

TWENTY-ONE FINISH GRID CAREERS

This game marked the last time that 21 Davidson gridders
will wear the Red and Black on a football field, and the de-
parture of these men marks the first complete turnover in foot-
ball since Coaeh Bill Story came to Davidson four years ago.
Several of those leaving are among the group that ‘Bloody
Bill” brought with him when he took over the reins of head
mentor. These graduating footballers were among those who in
their freshman year, trounced Erskine and Wofford by as-
tronomical scores that have not been emulated by a Davidson
team since. They are the same gridders who, with the help of
underclassmen teammates, upset N. C. State in a game that
will be remembered as long as people around Davidson care to
talk about football.

Unfortunately, things haven't been that rosy all of -he time,
but during the four vears in which these gridders played, David-
son played as good and spirited brand of football as any grid
team representing the institution has in the last two decades—
considering the calibre of competition which they faced. There
will be twenty-one gapping holes to fill in the line-up next year
—holes left vacant by Rhea Adams, Charlie Rimer, Johnny Rich-
ards, Fred Preyer, Mott Price, Hal Mapes, Grover Lee, Marvin
Kelly, Sandy Carnegie, Carl Eborn, Davey Erwin, Buddy Chand-
ler, Pete Brown, Amos Camp, Bill VanStory, Jake Wade, Cliff
Turner, Ernie Stricklin, John Rittenburg, Bob Sharpe and Jim
Sifford. With a salute to this long list of gridders, we officially
ring down the curtain on football for this year.

HOOPSTERS SHOW PROMISE
As far as we at Davidson are concerned, football is over and
basketball is upon us once more. And it looks very much as
though the off-season critics who spoke in whispers when. men-
tioning Davidson’s chances on the hardwood this winter will
have to back up and take another look. The season is far too
young to make any predictions about the hoopsters chances this

year, but the showing the Cats made against Columbia Seminary |

set more than one pessimist to scratching his head. It's granted
that the embryo preachers were no match for the Cats, but you
can't overlook the showing the local lads made.

Only five lettermen are among this year's squad, Haller,
Hengeveld, Cobb, Richards, and Roddey. In addition to these
seasoned performers, Coach Boyd Baird can rely on a group of
sophomores who starred on one of the top frosh squads in the
conference last year ..
Lean, Don Lazenby, Bob Turk, Brady Osborne, and Bob Nim-
ovks. Ted Bowen, Al Cook, and Walt Hankins round out the
squad at this early stage of the season.

The starting five that Davidson had on the floor for the
exhibition with Columbia Seminary averaged well over six feet
which is: something unusual for a Davidson team. The Cats can’t
boast of any sky-scrapping center, but they can point with
pride and confidence to at least two full teams of players who
work smoothly and shoot with deadly accuracy. The sophomores
on which Baird has counted so strongly, appear to be coming
along in fine style and in Monday night’s warm-up, they per-
formed like veterans.

POWERFUL STATE FIRST CONFERENCE FOE
The first Conference foe which the Cats will face will be

their toughest—N. C. State, who they play in Raleigh Monday
(Continued on Page Six)

fated hh hOoHOOhOOoSHhOhHhOobbbdedrdsd,

| STUDENTS

¢

ee
For style, quality aud

fit. . . in clothing that

are Campus Classics .. .
your selections are com-

plete at...

wa

.

MOORESVILLE, N. 0. PHONE 289

°
a

. Bill Brooks, Tom Coleman, Mae Me- |

Jainack®Gon

PAGE FUURK

wis

THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘
a

Auburn Lambeth Named All-State

By DAN McKEITHEN

Although he was on a team
which had a miserable won-lost
record, it comes as no surprise that
Davidson's ace passer, Auburn
Lambeth, has been selected on the
All-State Team of the Greensboro
Daily News. It would be very dif-
ficult to overlook a man who was
by far the top passer in the state;
in fact no one in the entire South-
ern Conference came close to his
passing accuracy mark of .534,

Out of 146 attempts the 165-
pound tailback completed 78 passes
for 1126 yards and six touchdowns.
Wake Forest’s T-formation quart-
erback, Carrol Blackerby, was the
closest competitor but he was be-
hind 300 yards and 10 completions.
Lambeth had his best day against
the fourth-ranked team in the na-
tion, Army, when he hit his receiv-
ers 15 times:

Last season the Wildcat junior
rated the fourth position in pass-
ing in the country. He connected
on 64 aerials for 640 yards and a
540 percentage. Because of his
improvement in total yardage and
number of completions he is expect-
ed to land an even better ranking
for the “49 season.

It might also be added that Au-
burn, with another year yet to play,
is practically sire of putting in
the books an all-time offensive
cecord for a Davidson player. The
great Teeny Lafferty of the 1935-
37 era is the present holder of the
mark,

Lamnbeth, along

|
L

Allen, Holdash, Gregus,

AUBURN

vith

Mooney
and others, will attend the 12th an-
nual All-State banquet to be held
familiar |i" Greensboro December 12. You
names such as Justice, Weiner, Cox, ! just have to invite a guy who leads

LAMBETH

the state in the most pass comple-
tions and most yardage, not to
mention total offense. Incidentally,
that 1126 yards is a new state pass-
ing record.

Wildcat Of The Week

By CHERRY STRIBLING

during the current football season] the receiving end of Auburn Lam-

is a sterling senior end, Pete Brown. | beth’s long pass and crashed down
Pete has played football all four|to the three where he was pushed

years here at Davidson but he re-| out of bounds by a desperate lung

ceived little recognition until this| by the Citadel safety man. The

year when his glue-fingered pass|game ended before another play
receiving brought him into the|could be run and Davidson lost
limelight. 20-14 but the last minute 76-yard
Pete has been an offensive sen |™arch capped by Pete Brown's
sation all year long, starting with, heroic effort will not be soon for-
the Army game when his pass- gotten by the spectators at that
catching drew praises from New | same.
York sports writers. On each suc-| Well, football is over but. Pete
cessive Saturday Pete added to his| steps from the gridiron to the
total of passes caught until he be- | wrestling mat where he was a let-
came one of the top receivers in the | terman last year, He figures to be
state.and in the conference. He al-'the top ‘man in his class and will
so figured in many of the scoring | offer plenty of opposition to his
plays that the Wildcats engineered | opponents, Then in the spring Pete
over a long, hard schedule. His play! will again demonstrate his versati-
in the Richmond game in which he} lity by donning the spikes and hit-
took a Lambeth pass in the end|ting the jumpipg pit as a pole-vaul-
zone for a score was especially ter for Pete White's track team.
Thanksgiving | He has been’a letter man and an

commendable. On

Day Pete provided the Davidson outstanding vaulter for the last 3
(Continued on Page Six)

followers with .a thrill as, on the

PETE BROWN

‘| last play of the game, he took a
Our last Wildcat of the Week| lateral from Mott Price who was on

Hoopsters Open
With Varsity. Win

rosh Loss

By BILL ADAMS

Boyd Baird’s 1949-1950
version of Davidson’s basket-lov-
ing Wildcats dropped some, of their
wraps and saved the others for
more potent opponents as they
swamped Columbia Seminary 67-
25 Monday night in the oid gym
to open what may prove to be an-
other successful basketball season.
In a preliminary, the Wildkittens of
Ray* Brown fell before a fast-break-
ing. team from the Kannapolis YM
CA, 36-46, in their first test of
the year.

The evening's main event, using
the return of Bilt Iverson to the
court battles as a drawing card,
failed to materialize into little more
than a stampede. The Wildcats easi-
ly outclassed Iverson and his mates
to turn the game into a race and
give every man: on the Red and
Black squad a chance to show his
merit.

The Wildcats started slowly,

: a little over-anxious, but

later forgot their butterflies and
showed plenty of strength dnce they
got underway. Tommy Haller had
10_ of Davidson’s ‘first 17 points
and added 4 more Iater to take
high point honors with 14 tallies,
followed by Al Cook with 12.

The starting five of Haller and
Bill Brooks at forwards, Don. Laz-
enby at center, and Dutch Henge-
veld and Whit Xobb at guards
played only long enough to show
promise of good ball-handling and
plenty of scrap for the coming
games, with Haller definitely look-
ing like the offensive star. The re-
serves are good, giving: the team
plenty of depth although just a
little shy on height, Whit Cobb
ably handled the floor game but
wasn't called upon to put his set-
shot to use.

Iverson carried the Seminary bur-
den and managed 11 points against
close “Wildcat guarding, getting
j most of his help from Bill Brown-
son.

The freshmen game proved to be

WADE HONORED

Wildcat Sports |

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1943

Jamerson Announces Team Will Run

43 From Widely Used ‘T’ Formation

By BILL WHITE

The single wing offense, partially because of its proven in.
effoctiveness this season but chiefly due to the fitness of next
year’s personel for the T-formation, wil! go the way of ont-
moded Wildcat weapons next fall when Davidson follows
the trend to the T, the Davidsonian learned yesterday from

Chesterfield

e
Sports’ Quiz

1. Don Hutson, ‘the greatest re-
ceiver in grid history, attended what
University?

2. George Barclay, former U.N.C.
star, is head football coach of what
Southern Conference School?

3. Gil Bocetti who was named
Sophomore of the Week for his bril-
liant play against Davidson, it a
member of what team?

4, Wofford College will piay in
the —— Bowl on January 2?

5, What team does former Da-
vidson mentor Gene McEver coach?

; Rules of Contest

1. Print your answers clearly’ on
the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.

2. Take your answers to Frank
Perrin in 112 West.

3. No entries will be accepted lat-
er than 24 hours after the David-
ssonian is circulated.

4. The first three correct entries
will receive a carton of Chester-
field cigarettes.

5. The contest is not open to
members of the Davidsonian staff.

Winners of last weeks quiz:

1. James Thompson.

2. C, I. Clark.

3. R. T. Jenkins.

far closer and better than the var-
sity’s. The Wildkittens took am
early lead which they held until
right before the half, but once be-
hind they could never catch up.

The game was slow at first. Kan-
napolis was wild on most of their
shots but started hitting midway in
the second quarter to take a 22-18
half-time lead.

The second half was pretty much
the same story. Kannapolis started
using the fast-break to stay ahead
of the Wildkittens while the Frosh
began missing more shots. They
seemed a little disorganized and
failed ‘to get any closer than 6
points to the speedsters from Kan-
napolis.

The. Wildkitten’s downfall lay in
their inability to stop Kannapolis’
fast-break or to follow up their
own shots. Bob Graham and Bob
Crosland looked like dangerous
point-getters, while Harris Asbury,
George Lippard and Adrian Bowen
seemed to be capable ball handlers.
The Wildkittens also appear to
have good reserves and perhaps
with better teamwork and more ac
curacy from the floor they can im-

prove on their performance.

Believing to recognize her hus-
band, a lady in a suburban tram
suddenly left her seat and from
behind put her.arms around a man
sitting several seats ahead, Natural-
ly she was greatly embarrassed
when the man turned around and
she saw that he was a perfect stran-
ger. “Pardon me,” she tried to ex-
plain, “but you see, your head be-
hind looks exactly like my hus-
band’s behind.” ’ I

Mooresvill
Creamery

GRADE “A” MILK
PASTEURIZED

Daily Delivery
PHONE 205

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

4, ORIENTAL

RESTAURANT

BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD

OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PHONE 2-2238

Coach Charley Jamerson.,

Jamerson, who along with North
Carolina’s Carl Snavely and Rich-
mond’s Dick Esleeck has been one
of the few coaches clinging to the
single wing, announced the coach-
j ing staff’s decision for the change,
saying that “it fits the type football
player who normally comes to Da-
vidson.”

Coach Jamerson went on to say:
“Most of our backs range in weight
from 145 to 165. Occasionally we
get a few big huskies, but general-
ly that weight range is correct.
These comparatively small boys
have a lot of specd, as we have seen
in the past couple of years. Often
we chance on a back who can throw
the ball well, has plenty of foot-
ball sense, but who is not a good
runner, It is evident that we can
combine these backs and play the
T-formation well.

“This past year, the coaching
staff decided that we did not have
enough running speed in our back-
field to install the T successfully.
Therefore, we went out to look for
backs who could Be groomed in the
T on the freshman squad.”

Boyd Baird’s frosh, with A. C.
Gregg, Roy White, Bill Stanley,
Bill Rowland, and Jack Ruth,
the answer to Jamerson’s seeking,
operated smoothly from the T,
They used it somewhat under a
handicap with only 24 men on the
squad, but nevertheless, managed
to master the formation and run it
effectively,

Jamerson pointed out that these
boys will join varsity backs who,
though having run several seasons
now from the single wing, were op-
erators from the T in high school
and who are adapted to its plays.

“Auburn Lambeth (who worked
from the T in high school) should
make one of the finest T quarter-
backs in the nation next year,”
Jamerson speculated. “Jim Fasul
and Jack Branch should give us a
pair of offensive guards who are
equal in ability to the great pair
of guards who played against us
at West Point. I am confident of
that. Our tackles will be adequate,
The returning varsity backs, along
with the speedsters on this year’s
freshman team will give us a first-
rate backfield.”

Coach Charley brought out that
while the loss of Mapes, Price, and
Brown will hurt the Cats on the
flanks, Dick Blanks, Bob Turk, and
Tom Comer, will be joined by Kirk
Oglesby, who recently underwent
a knee operation; Walt Hankins
and Lee Talbert, forced to the side-
lines by studies this fall; and possi-
bly “several basketball players who
have promised me they will return
for football’ next fall.”

“Normally,” Jamerson concluded,
“a team which switches offenses is
necessarily weak for a season, due
to the change-over adjustment. In
our case, however, I believe that
we will start off immediately much
stronger than last season because
the T will fit the particular abilities
of our personnel so much better
| than did the sinzle wing.”

Advertisement :ppearing in the
New Bern Journal, September 20,
1873— Davidson College, Mecklen-
burg County, well equipped, seven
professors, expenses low, session
begins September 25, 1873. J. R.
Blake, chairman of the Faculty.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting
Goods

415 & TRYON STREET

e . . oe wee es

e=me @ Um
