Its unusual the way
that Davidson’s basket-
ball schedule was ar
ranged in that the first
four games that the
Cats play will be in
four different new
gyms. Playing the first
game of the year, the
hoopsters met N. C.,
State’s ‘‘Hoosiers’’ in
their mammoth new
coliseum. On the fol-
lowing night, the Me-
Crary Eagles semi-pro
team played host to the 2

Cats in their newly i
completed gym. The By GORDON SCOTT

next game that the Jocai hoopsters played was on Saturday night
in Statesville where they officiatly dedicated the new $250,000
gymnasium of the Statesville High School. Then after this game
—on Thursday uight—Davidson returns to the campus to play
the first game — against Duke — in the Charles Worth John-
ston Gymnasium. This will be a red letter day in the history of
athleties at Davidson College.

STUDENTS WILL HAVE BEST SEATS

When you walk into the new gym here at Davidson, it’s
still hard to realize that it is a reality. The building that has
been longed for and planned for has heen néarly completed and
yeady for use. We find it diffienIt to forget those nights in
Charlotte at the Armory—the ever present problem of trans-
portation there and back, the. (ights for first row seats, which
were the only good ones in the éntire ‘student section, and the
mutierings by the unfortunate majority of students who were
forced to find a seat in the highly undesirable student section,
far behind the goals. Fortunately, this is all in the past, for
Davidson's home games will be played on the campus, and stu-
dents will have the best seats in the house.

The present plan for seating, which is subject to change
as conditions may require, is something like this — the entire
West site of she gvinnasium will be reserved for students, facul:.
tv members and their families. The seats in this section will be
on a first-come first-serve-basis. In the event. a student has a
date for-one of the games, he will be required to buy a date
ticket. but his date can sit in the student section. There are ap-
proximately nine hundred seats in this section which would of
course be insufficient to accommodate all the students and all

the faculty at.one time. However, the assumption under which y
ee

PAGE FOUR

the Athletic Department is working is that there will not be 100 “/,

per cent representation from either group at any game. Persona)-
ly, we would like to see studerts turn out: in such numbers that
this seating plan would have w be junked in favor of one that
will accommodate every single student in Davidson College.

N. 0. STATE AUTHORITIES SLIP UP

. . Position Name
The remainder of the gym will be for basketball enthusiasts . .
from the surrounding territory, and the seats will all be reserv- End Dave Williams Kappa e
ed. Tickets for. these seats will be sold for’ $1.50, althoughh some| Guard Charlie Simmons Kappa Sig
of the seats may have a cheaper tag on them. Arrangements for| Center John Jervis Beta
seating of students from the school that may be playing in the} Guard Bill Carter K. A.
gym will be made on a reciprocal basis, and a section will be End Walt Hankins Beta
‘reserved for them. If this plan is followed, then ariy students B il H .
from N, C. State who’follow the. Wolfpack to Davidson will be ack Bill louck Pi Kap
in for a surprise, for they will have to pay $1.50 for a seat just| Back Bill Bird K. A.
as we Davidson students had to do in Raleigh Monday night. Back Charlie Pearson Kappa Sig
In our opinion, the situation at Raleigh was inexcusable. Back Earl Smith Beta
With 12,000 seats in their new colliseum, it does seem that the
proper authorities could have made some arrangement for the SECOND TEAM
Davidson students — small thongh the number may have been
—who made the long trip to the Capitol City. As it turned out,| End Jim Vann Phi Delt
however, we had much better seats than anything that they| Guard Gene Regen K. A.
eee ere or paratam Stadt. The Site student] Centar Bob Bumberger Pl Kap
8! Guard Bill Purcell Kappa Sig
and there is.no telling where they might have placed us.
End Slick Evans Kappa Sig
DUKE WILL BE TOUGH Back Norm Whiteheart Phi Delt
Thursday night’s ghme with Duke should pack the new Back Monty Hill SAE
Davidson gym to the rafters. The Blue Devils are generally con-! Back Bill Collins PiKA
Back Johnny Kelton Sigma Chi

ceded to be the only team in the Conference capable of toppling |
State, so that gives some indication of their strength. But the |
Dukes will have a job on their hands, for Boyd Baird’s plucky
Cats would like nothing better than to win the first game play-
ed in the gym. The netters are gaining experience and confi-
dence with each game they play and by Thursday night they
should be at their pre-Christmas height.

Ee

HONORABLE MENTION

Campus Club.

WE FEATURE
Patronize Our Advertisers!

Catalin |
o and Revere Sweaters DAVIDSON

(In His Favorite Colors)
WEEK OF DEC. 12-17

MON. -TUE.
“AFRICA SOREAMS’’
Bud Abbott - Lou Costello

Virgin Wools and Cashmeres

WEDNESDAY ~- THURSDAY

SLEEVELESS OR WITH SLEEVES
“ADAMS RIB”

$5.00 “ $1 8.00 Spencer Tracy

| Katherine Hepburn

PRIDAY - SATURDAY
“BTAMPEDB"’
Rod Cameron
Gale Storm

Marion Davis Co., Inc.
113 South Tryon St.

Charlotte, N. 0.

RECREATION

CENTER

Davidson, N. 0.

Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

1949 All-Fraternity Team

sont.
Frosh
Soph.
Senior
Soph.
Senior
Senior
Senior
Senior

Senior
Junior
Senior
Frosh
Senior

Senior -

Junior
Senior
Junior

Bill Cassels, Pi Kap: Bob “Bennett, SAE; Bill Brooks,-*
Sigma Chi; John Ellis, Kap Sig: Earl Groves, Beta ; ‘Lamar
Hinson, SAE; Louis Rogers, SAE: Jim Rodgers, Pika;
Cherry Stribling, KA; Ted Bowen, Phi Delt: Jim Evans,
Kappa Sig; Lane Cloaninger, SAE; Sam Joyner, Beta;
Whit Cobb, Phi Delt; Will Herndon, SPE; John Whitfield,

4 ALL-. RATERKITY TEA

die

St Ke hme

First Row: Dave Williams, Charlie Simmons, John Jervis, Bill Carter, Walt Hankins. Second Row: Bill Houck, Bill Bird, Charlie Pearson, Earl Smith.

IS CHOSET.

BEAT ‘‘DOCOK”’

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1949

Betas, Kappa Sigs Dominate Mythical Team;
Walt Hankins, Named On Ballots, Captains Team

With newspapers over the coun-
try publishing All-America, all-sec-
tion, all-state and any other selec-
tions they can dream up, the Da-
vidsonian jumps on the bandwa-
gon with its all-Fraternity team.
However, this selection is unique in
the fact that it was not chosen by
biased sportswriters, who cannot
possibly see all the candidates in
action, but by sports managers and
players — men who ought to know.

The. first squad runs true to
form; as should be expected the
two teams, which tied for the loop
championship each placed three
men on the mythical team while
the third place winner landed two
berths. The highly touted Betas
went through the entire season
without a defeat until they were
dropped in an upset in their final
contest. This loss gave them a 9-1
record and deadlocked them with
the Kappa Sigs who finished with
a similar record. The KA’s, the
group which downed the Betas,
were behind with an 8-2 record.

One of the-main cogs in the pow-
erful Beta offense was End “Hank”
Hankins, a pass catcher deluxe. He
is given the honorary position of
captain because he received a first-
place nomination from Every bal-
lot. Holding down the other flank
position is another star pass re-
ceiver, the Kappa Sigma’s speedy
Dave Williams. Two sterling guards
are found in chunky Charley Sim-
mons, another Kappa Sig, and Bill
“Swish” Carter of the KA’s. These
were two of the hardest-charging
players in the league and their
swiftness was no liability, Round-
ing out the all-star line is Beta cen-
ter Johnny Jervis, fine linebacker
and ball snapper.

9, ORENTAL

RESTAURANT

BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PHONE 2-2238

Charlotte 2 Walle Shop

“ACROSS FROM THE BUMING soma”
ON WEST TRADE STREET

By DAN McKEITHEN

In the backfield vhere is as fast a
foursome as could be hoped for.
Any of these was a real scoring
threat whenever he yot his hands on
the ball. Little Billy Houck, the
Pi Kap’s contribution to the team,
is a nifty triple-threat, who kept
his team always in the game. Third
Beta to make the squad is Earl
Smith, only married man selected.
All opposing teams feared Earl's
deadly bullet passes. Another great
performer was Charley Pearson
who led the Kappa Sigs to a tie
for the championship. The fourth
spot in the backfield is held by KA
ace, Bill Bird, who did everything
well.

One can see that this would be a
really terrific ball team if it ever
became a reality, Two ball hawks
on the ends, a stalwart line and
four explosive backs make up this
year’s All-Fraternity first team and
what a team.

However, close behind this team
is the second string which also has

nine top players. This group boasts
a big line and has four backs that
could star in any backfield. Line-
men Jim Vann, Gene Regen, Bob
Bumbarger, Bill Purcell, and John
Evans gave opposing teams plenty
of trouble. Norman Whiteheart
performed admirably for the Phi
Delts as did Monty Hill for the
SAE’s. Both these boys were ex-
ceptional punters. Pika Bill Col-
lins was his team’s offensive big
gun while opposing teams learned
to fear the accurate passing arm of
the Sigma Chi star, Johnny Kel-
ton.

We feel that the selections make
up one of the most representative
groups ever picked for an all-fra-
ternity team. Although we aren’t
having a banquet nor giving out
medals, we extend congratulations
to the members of the two teams
and to those receiving honorable
mention.

Patronize Our Advertisers!

| | FORMAL WEAR
by After Six

Tuxedo

, Full Dress .

$45.00 up
$50.00 up

Dinner Jackets $27.50 up

Or

Tuxedo

Full Dress . .
Accessories ..

John Mock & Son

MOORESVILLE, N. 0.

... Rent Them

$6.00
$7.00
$3.00 3

PHONE 230
