PAGE Six

OWEN DEPLORES COMPLACENCY
OF FACULTY, STUDENT BODY

Mr. Guy Owen, new English in-
structor on the campus, comes
from Clarkton, N. C. He was grad-
uated from the University of North
Garolina in 1947 with an A. B. de-
gree, and he received his M. A. in
1949 from UNC. He has also tak-
en some graduate work at the Uni-
versity of Chicago.

Davidson Freshmen
Escort Princesses

On Wednesday night, Nov. 16,
sixteen freshmen served as escorts
for the Princesses of Christmas at

Mr, Owen has recently become! the annual Christmas Coronation

a member of Sigma Upsilon.

Ball which is held in connection

When asked his opinion of Da-| with the Charlotte Christmas Fes-
vidson, Mr. Owen stated that £¢j rival. The Princesses for whom the
far it was “luke warm.’’ He said] freshmen were to act as escorts,
that he had not been here long] had been selected by their various
enough to form a real opmion, but|pometowns to be their candidate
that he was very well pleased with | for Queen of the Charlotte Christ-
his work and was fascinated by it.| mas Festival. During the Ball one
Since he has been teaching only] of the Princesses was selected to
a short time, the newness of it has! reign as Queen and was crowned
not worn off. by Miss Audrey Totter, Hollywood

Mr. Qwen added that there is] movie star, who was in Charlotte
one trait that Davidson men, both|as guest of honor along with Mr.
professors and students, have, that] Fulton Lewis, Jr. world famous
he feels is not good. That trait is} news commentator, and Mr. Ted
complacency. Mr. Owen said that] Malone, Mutual Broadcasting Sys-
the scholastic: standards of which/tem story teller. Assisting Miss
we boast “just aren't.” The grad-| Totter in the coronation was Miss
uate records-of former Davidson’ Ann Rose of Mint Hill, last years
students show that Davidse: does Queen.
not have the standards that notth:| pye dance which was held in
ern colleges have. He feels ‘that] 46 patiroom of the Charlotte Ho-
this ‘complacency should be over- tel was attended by over three hun-
come, and Davidson should get dred people, including many dis-
down to some hard work. tinguished persons, all of whom

One thing which Mr. Owen has were the guests of the Charlotte

Le Cercle Francaise

Hears Mrs. Goldiere

Le Cercle Francais held its sec-
ond meeting of the year at the home
of Dr. Goldiere on November 15.
After the business session, Bob
Keever presented the program. ‘Ed
Parker gave a news-cast covering
various phases of current events in
France, such as the Salon ‘d Auto-

mobiles, new books, modern art,
politics, etc. Mrs, Goldiere, who
studied at Laval University ‘at
Quebec this summer, gave a

“causerie’ in, French on her im-
pression of Quebec and told several
of her experiences there; the talk
was illustrated. with posters, books,
etc. After these talks, the members
enjoyed delicious French pastries.
The president, Bill Goodman, ad-
journed the meeting. Those present
were: H. Barr, R. F. Boyd, F. W.
Best, H. P. Bridges, W. A. Good-
man, R. R. Hart, J. V. Hunter, K.
W. Jones, J. R. Keever, W. N.
Mebane, J. J. Murray, C. L. Nor-
wood, FE. C. Parker and J. D.
Whitener.

MUSIC RECITAL...
(Continued From Page One)
B. Flat’ by Mozart, Charles Auten
playing the Prelude and the Minuct
from “Suite Bergamosque™ by De-
bussy. and Paul Laverty playing
“Sonata it F Major” by Mozart.
The organ students Paul Jenkins
and Henry’ Bridges presented

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

that there wili be no, more student
recitals before the Christmas holi-
days. In the spring, however, there
will probably be one each month.

STATISTICS REMAIN ...

(Continued from Page Five

Punting
Times
Kicked yds. Ave.
Runyan —.. 15 485 32.3
Sifford ---. 34 ago 28.2
Chandler -.. 1 30 30.0
Sloan -.---- 2 36 18.0
Pass Receiving
No. Caught Gained
Price ..-------.-- 28 248
Brown ~ 27 262
Sifford .._.. ---- id 219
Rimer -.--- 8 48
Lambeth .. .--- @ 28
Turner -. -. 3 22
Wade, J. --..---- 8 86
Reynolds .-.----- ! 1
Freeman —...----- 3 1§

Scoring: Sifford 18, Runyan 12,
Mapes 56, Lambeth 6, Wade, J. 6,
Brown 6, Price 6.

MR. BURGES JACKSON...
(Continued From Page One)’
an AB and later L.L. D. He serv-
ed for a time on the New York)
Evening Post and later in an edi-
torial capacity with several maga-
zines. After serving on the faculty
at Vassar, he was chosen to head
the English Dept. at Union College.
Now retired, Dr, Johnson is en-
gaged in making a tour through
the South, lecturing at colleges and

\Harriers Defeat
Gamecocks, 15-55

On Friday, November 11, Da-
vidson’s winning cross country team
journeyed to Columbia, S. C., and
handed South Carolina's Game-
cocks a 15-55 whitewash in a South-
ern Conference cross country meet.
The rout marked Coach Pete Whit-
tle’s Cat's fifth straight win, against
an opening-day defeat. —

The victorious Wildcats, obvious-
ly coasting against their feeble
southern cousins, sent their entire
squad of cight men across the fin-
ish line acm-inearm for an 8-way
tie for first place and a complete
skunking of the host Gamecocks.
The Wiidcats time was 17:45 for
the 3 mile course in what amounted
to merely a warm-up for the big
Conference meet on Monday.

The entire Red and Black squad
of Blake Bradley, fom Stockton,
Dave Anderson, Dick Stockton,
Bob Long, Bill Lee, Dick Patter-
son and Dan McKeithen _ really
showed their heels to the South
Carolinians in the first white-wash
of the. year and another triumph
for our rampaging harriers,

Horse sense is what keeps a
horse from betting on people.

Withers Electric
Company

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1949

MEOKLENBURG ALUMNI ..
(Continued From Page One)
In addition to the presentation
of the Mecklenburg Award, the
dinner will feature among others,
an address by Dr. Cunningham, a
concert by a quartet from the Male
Chorus, and a new movie about
Davidson College, made during the
Homecoming weekend.

GRIDDERS SHOULD...
(Continued From Page Four)

drives in Greenville last Saturday
that certainly showed fire that has
been missing for ‘lo these many
weeks;

Lambeth seemed to have shaken
loose from injuries, completing 13
of 24 passes, while big C. L. Run-
yan looked like the Soph of the
Week he was by bulling through
holes right and left. The husky
Gastonia ploughman broke through
the Hurricane wall for ten yard and
the lone Cat score in the fourth
period, carrying would-be tacklers
across with him.

Jimmy Sifford was the lone man
put back on the injury list. He
received a multilated nose bone
when one of the boys in Purple
shoved Jim's nose guard closer to
his nose than necessary. Bob
Sharpe took a stiff blow on. his

—

WHEREVER YOU GO!

shoulder that forced him out for
a good while, and Jerry Kiser was
out of commission after mid.way
the third period with a charley
horse. Both of these boys are ex-
pected to be ready for the Rollins
clash tomorrow night under the Or-
lando lights, however.

Mooresville Ice
Cream Company

MAKERS OF

Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.

VISIT THE

RECREATION
CENTER

Davidson, N. C.

Mort reorce cur
URL Tafa’
. Ve .

noticed about Davidson is its| Christmas Festival, Music for the| “Fantasia and Fugue in G Minor” | universities as he goes. Hie latest Ty PRODUL Ps

friendly spirit, He believes that! 5.1) was furnished by Chris Cross|by Bach, and “Lauda Sion’” from) publication includes, “Campus vs. © Radio Repairs py a

this spirit is shown not only in the) ..4 nis Orchestra, direct from the “Cathedral Windows” by Siegfried] Classroom”, and an essay, “Tlie . ganene Foo PuncUtS G d

college, but also in the town. Edison Hotel in New York City, Korg-Elert, respectively. ost Art of Profanity.” ® Electrical Supplies sn Fano Pg Parker- araner
There is one complaint ‘that Mr.} vnere he had completed a very| This first recital of the year was| ‘The committce which selects: the © Light Bulbs

Company

118 W. Trade St.

attented by students, faculty mem-: sperkers for the series is made up

Owen has to make about Davidson. successful engagement. oo
bérs and interested friends of the|of Professor J. F. Pinkney, Gar |

He is often mistakeh for a stu-| The arrangements for the ball
dent, and consequently is* treated | were made by the Charlotte Credit
like one One day just after he ar-| Woman's Breakfast Club, and it
rived he. he went over to the! was through this organization that
Guest House at lunch time and} 4, request to have a number of
asked a lady where the faculty ate. Davidson freshmen to act as escorts
She told him and then asked the/ ...- made. Those who made the
“insulting” question, “Whom do} inission were: George Cornelson,
you wish to see?” Another 1: -1dent Neal; Dixon, Hampton Mauze,
happened one day that was WOFse  valcolm Doubles, A. C. Gregg, Roy
than thir Ile was talking to &| White, Mitchell Patton, Robert
lady when sic casually asked him Bruce, Jinks Jervey, Will Hern-
if he were-a sophomore. He shook don, Garland Still, Frank Wallace,
his head, and she cautiously asked Angus Andrews, Phil Sellers, Al
if he were a junior. When he Cook, Ken Taylor and White Cobb.
shook his head this time, she asked
him, almost disbelievingly, if he
were a senior. This time after he

shook his head, he hastily told her :
that he was a professor. “Bunny,’’ has been appointed cam-

After these two incidents, Mr.| Pus representative. for Chesterfield
Owen decided that he was not dig- | Cigarettes by the Campus Mer-
nified enough. He said that he had| chandising Bureau of New York.
seriously considered purchasing a| Bunny will run the contest in the
pipe, but after he though about | Davidsonian and supervise the
this awhile, he decided that a pipe; Chesterfield Quiz in the college
might brand him as a freshman. magazine, giving cartons of Ches-

And he certainly did not wantviu feffisids to the winners of these
be mistaken for one of those, and other contests. Watch for the

Knowing that Mr. Owen was {ew ABC Sports Quiz in the David-
single, I asked him if he had any sonian,

prospects for a wife. He said that

he did, and then he rushed me our] COURT RECOMMENCE .

of his office, so that he could go (Continued From Page One)
(6) Grier Williams—No cap, as-

Remember this seal — it’s

DAVIDSON, N. C. | your assurance of the best!

college: , man: Professors Thompson, Guer-
Professor Pfohl has announced} rant, Gallant, and Pfohl.

Phone 8257

ABC REPRESENTATIVE

Frank Perrin, known to most as

‘to the post office. It seems that

he was expecting a Iciter from a
Miss—.

JACKSON CITES...
(Continued From Page One)
tapped into O.D.K.:
Dr. Puckett
Having graduated from David-

suming the dignity of upper-
classmen.

(7) Laurence Erwin — No cap,
doesn’t know regulations.

(8) John Howard Proctor — Re-
fusal to carry laundry and gross
disrespect to upperclassmen.

son with an A.B. degree in 1927,| dent of Kappa Alpha social frater-
Dr. Puckett did graduate work at| nity, of the Forensic Council, and
the University of North Carolina] of Sigma Upsilon. He is this year’s
where he received an M.A. degree,} recipient of the Agnes Sentelle
and then earned his Ph.D. at] Brows: Award and is a member of
Princeton, where he later was anjthe Philanthropic Literary Society,

instructor in the field of pre-imedi-
cal work. Dr. Puckett has taught
at several schools of higher learn-
ing including Princeton University,
Presbyterian College, Southy-cstern,
and Davidson. During the war Dr.
Puckett worked at Princeton on the
problem of wounding effects of
small projectiles. He came to Da-
vidson in 1946.

Robert Bumbarger

Bob, a business major, is from
Hickory, North Carolina. He is
president of Pi Kappa Phi .social
fraternity and has served in pre-
vious years, as the fraternity’s
treasurer and pledge master. For
two years Bob was in the U. S
Navy, being on a p.t. boat most of
the time. Bumbarger is editor of
Davidson's annual, and was recent-
ly chosen for membership in Who’s
Who Among Students In Ameri-
can Universities and Colleges.

Curtis Harper

Curt’s home is in Lynchburg,
Virginia. He’s a member of Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity, has
served on the Student Council, and
is a member of the Philanthropic
Literary Society. Curt was nomi-
nated for president of the student
body in 1948, and was elected pres-
ident of his Sophomore class.

John Lyles
John, a pre-ministerial student, is
from Chester, South Carolina. He
is a Navy veteran and is doing hon-
ors ‘work in English. John is presi-

Scabbard and Blade, Delta Phi Al-
pha, YMCA Cabinet, Student De-
velopment Committee, Honorary
Fraternity Council, Who’s Who in
American Universities and Colleges,
and Phi Beta Kappa.

Doug Rice
Rice, who is from Bennettsville,
South Carolina, graduated from
high school in 1940. He served

Aig Corps and, after his discharge,
he entered Davidson in the spring
semester of 1946. Doug plays foot-
ball, is a member of the Kappa
Sigma social fraternity and is tak-
ing a B.S. course, planning to go
into business after graduating. He
is a member of Ly Club and is judge
of the Court of Control.

Jake Wade

Jake, a native of Charlotte, is a
member of Kappa Sigma social fra-
ternity. He has served a member
of the Student Council, and is now
president of the “D’” Club, a mem-
ber of the Honorary Fraternity
Council, and plays varsity foot-
ball and baseball.

First Student: “What's the -best
way to teach a girl to swim?”

Second student: “First, you put
your arm around her waist, take
her right hand in yours. . .”

First student: “But this girl’s my
sister.’ |

-Second student: “Push her off
the dock.'—Akron Buchtelite.

thirty-four “months in the Army!

2 They te MILDER! hey re iL. OPS/

as)

=> ‘ e . ™

J IN AMERICAS COLLEGES
WITH THE TOP MeN /N SPORTS

4

a

¢ WITH THE HOLLYWOOD STARS

