)
WELCOME
GIRLS!!!

VOLUME XXXVIII

*RUMA

The Bavbidsonian

ALBENDA

LUX UB! GRTA 4

IDERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OC.OBER 22, 19: 22, 1949

» GOK

CAMPUS GROUPS COMPETE FOR my Grads Spread

BEST DECORATED HOUSE AWARD]

hroughout Land

Last June the largest graduating

As that glorious, time of the year called ‘‘Homee: ming’? | ‘ss in the history of the college

rolls’ around once more, the fraternities und the Campus (
once again have entered into competition for the cup which is
awarded annually to that organization with the best dec sra-

‘nb left the campus to establish their
| sarious reputations throughout the
wide world, How far will the Da-
vidson Four Year Success Course

‘ion. All indications concerning the decorations seem to point| carry them? Well, let's take a

1S the conclusion thar this year's
decorations might easily be judged
the best yet seen at Davidson Col-
lege. Very briefly they are:

Beta Theta Pi

A parade of fancy is here shown,
denating the progress of the col-
lege in recent years and portray.
ing ‘the «mythical visit of Mr. I.
Gott. Kocks to the campus through
means of a short movie projected
in a, hugh wildcat through its oper
mouth:

Kappa Sigma

A huge stéamroller ix here used
as the sien of progress at Davidson
College. The steamroller is in the
process of crushing the old church
and the new gymnasium, - thereby |
clearing the way for the great im-
provements which are to follow at
its wake.

Campus Club

A miniature Parade of Progress
will denote the spirit of progress
of the Davidson Campus which
will bring a great advancement in
the development of the college.
Figures representing both profes-
sors and students will make up
this parade.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
The Wildcat Exterminating
Company here springs into .exis-
tence with a wildcat carrying a
spraygun killing spiders on a minia-
ture football field.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Antiaircraft’ guns are now
brought into play as Wildcat Gen.
eral Jamerson shnots shells with
various football players names on
them ata Richmond airplane After
already having downed an N, C.
State warbird.

Kappa Alpha
A football struggle is here de-
picted on a miniature ‘field between
spiders and wildcats, with the wild-
cats striving for two great goals, a
new church and victory in the
game with Richmond.

Pi Kappa Phi
The element of weather now plays
an important role in the two scenes;
first, a football field with a spider
on a web and a wildcat in a boat
paddled by a freshman headed to-
ward the spider, and secondly, a
flashback of last year’s wet fes-
tivities.
Sigma Chi 5
The Wildcat Express here makes
its entrance, being followed by a
handcar operated by the Richmond
Spider—the Express soon demon.
Strating its snperiority over the
handcar,

Phi Gamma Delta
A Wildcat drunk with anger is
observing a Davidson player chas-
ing a Richmond Spider and using
a freshman as a club, for even
freshmen can be useful in the pro-
gress of the college.

Whether Report

The Whether Dept. of Davidson
Coliege under the supervision of
our noble Dr. John R. Cunning-
ham has decided to put its faith
in a “Heads or Tails” whether
forecast this year instead of rely-
ing on the ole weather birds of
the U. S. Weather Burean.:

In making up the whether fore-
cast for the week end, the commit.
tee held its formal Coin Flipping
Ceremony Tuesday night and came
to a ‘final conclusion only after
“Cash” Jackson had insisted on
the best two out of three count.
The whether forecast which was
finally flipped out of the Lincoln
Head Copper (all Cash could let
us have) is for fair and cool over
the week end.

Richest College
When Maxwell Chambers willed
Davidson College $280,000 in 1855,
it was the richest college south of
Princeton.

Dr. Miller to Conduct
Homecoming Vesper:

4

4
ite

»

look at last year’s graduating class.
Just how iar have they gone? What
are they doiny this year?

Our hustling veaeran of the
gridiron, Bronco Bailey has taken
h’s place among the domestic ranks
- of married life and is attending the

graduate school at the University

| § of Tennessee. George Cheek has
$ Jtraded his DC basketball jersey in

‘ atl ; | for a white coat ae the University

~ , {of Penna. where We is in his first

-& [year of Medical School. Charles-

?, -% |.on, South Carolina is adjusting it-

self to. its latest social benefactor—
Patrick D. Miller

—

|
i

ry. D. Ashmore. J. D. is a medical
student at U.S.C. Fact is — a large
number of the class of 49 have chos-
en medicine as a means of scraping
up their bread and butter. ' Tim
Harden is at Emory Md. Schaol.
John Codington is burning up the
books at U. of Maryland, and Bill
Johnson hopes to the University of
Penna. his alma mater.

Union ‘Theological Seminary has
claimed its usual large quota of top
notch Davidson men. Frank Lem-
mon, after a trip to Europe this
sutnmer entered Union with hopes

Our Vesper speaker for the: Sun-| of rooming with John Payne.
day Night of Homecoming week-| Among others, were two married
end will be Dr. P. D. Miller, Dr,| men: Herb Meza and Dave Shep.
Miller is the pastor of the Druid| person. Ed Hopper, Mac Hart, Bill
Hills Presbyterian Church in At.| Iverson chose Columbia Theolo-
lanta, Georgia. He has held pas-| gical Seminary for ministerial prep-
torates in Raleigh, North -Caro-| aration.
lina, and in San Antonia, Texas,} Jack Etheridge is at Emory tak-
previous to the one in Atlanta, The] ing law. Dave “Meatball” Gam.
University of Georgia was Dr.| brell hails Harvard as his home,
Miller's first Alma Mater, He con-| and has his sights on a bright fu-
tinued his education at Davidson} ture in Law. Another promising
College where he received his A.| lawyer to be is Dick Richards who
B. degree in 1922, From here Dr.|is up Washington way, attending
Miller went to the Union Theologi-| classes at the noted Georgetown
cal Seminary in Virginia. There he} Law School.
received his B.D. and Th.M. de-| A number of grads have started
grees. In 1933 Davidson conferred! their careers in teaching. At Con-
upon him the honorary title of Doc-| cord High School, you will find
tor of Divinity, Dr. Miller was the Buford Goodman trying to develop
Educational Secretary of the Exe-| syysical appreciation within the
cutive Committee of Home Mis-| minds of his pupils. Homer “Zeda-
sions from 1929-1935, and the Home) ker is swinging a lot of weight in
Missions Editor of The Presbyter-|South Carolina; he is starting per-
ian Survey. Dr. Miller has written! sonel work in a counseling depart-

a book entitled, “Tv he Imperative} ment of the high school system. If

of Home Missions.’ you ever hear of a teacher who has
risen to fame in Rabungap Nacoo-
chee, that’s Bob Butt. Not far from

Dr. George B. Watts

Hi hl H ed By fession. C, H. Charles holds the

Gg. y Onor Y | tithe of being Band Leader at Ben.

nett McColl. We may expect to
hear big things from a tall, quiet

Ambassador of France to the Unit-| caster — good luck, Zeb Holler.

ed States, recently notified Dr.| Little Bobby Manor may turn out

George B. Watts, Professor of (Continued on Page Eight)

French of Davidson College, that

of the Minister of Foreign Affairs,

you have been named “Chevalier de

tla Legion d’Honneur:’’ The Am-

bassador wrote: “I am happy: to

gratitude of the French Govern.

ment for the eminent services ren-

dered to the cause of French cul-

ture and language by your teach-

By JOHN HOBART
‘Last Monday the growl of a
small siren mounted on an cven
smaller fire-fighting contraption
shattered the relatively peaceful at-
mosphere of a routine collegiate

home, in Troutman, N. C., Pinky
French ° Government Phi Beta Kappa who has energeti-
“by a decree of the President of
congratulate you on this distinc-

Boyce has started his teaching pro-

His Excellency, Henri Bonnet,| cally tackled a teaching job at Lan-
the Republic on the nomination
tion... which gives witness of the

ing and the indefatigable activity} afternon. . \
which you have never ceased to ree
“Where? |

show as Secretary-Treasurer of
the American Association of Tea.
chers of Frenth.”

The Legion of Honor, establish-
ed by Napoleon in -1802, is com-
posed of five grades, from “Cheva-
lier” to “Grand Croix.” The dec-
oration of the order is a five point.
ed star of silver, enameled in white.
The reeipient is authorized to wear
at all times the red ribbon of the
Legion of Henor,

In 1937 Dr. Watts was named
“Officer d’Academie” by the French
Minister of Public Instruction.

It is expected that the formal
ceremony of presentation will fake
place later in the year at the French
Consulate in Washington, or at
the Culmral Services of the French
Embassy in New York City.

‘“The laundry!”

But as the mighty little three and
five-eighths cylinder flame quencher
roared down the street, making only
several m.p.h. than a worm and
loaded with many feet of hose,
plus several smoke eaters, the little
red terror was unable to stop at
the school’s refined wash board.
Instead it rolled on up to the in-
tersection behind Duke Dorm,
where it wheeled about and roared
back to its destination without fear
in the carburetor.

While this maneuver was skill-
fully accomplished, excitement
hungry students rushed to the scene
of the conflagration eager to wite
ness the long anticipated destruc-
tion to the mutilator of their
clothes. Reports spread that the
blaze had started in the machine

CraT MIG

LIG

WELOOME
GIRLS!!!

NUMBER FIVE

MISS MARGARET TRUMAN

September 1, 1917 —

“New Gym Most

Flash:
Modernistic

The following is taken from an issue of The Davidsonian

dated September 1, 1917:

Mr. L. S. Bradshaw will complete his portion of the work

the first of September.

the full

hy
to

Rifle Team Practice
Starting This Week

Practice for the College Rifle
Team will begin late this week, un-
der direction of Major Harold M.
Kennedy. With a numbef of letter.
men left over from last. year's
team, and prospects for some fine
talent in the freshman class, hopes
are high for an outstanding séea-
son. Approximately 40 matches
have been scheduled thus far, in-
cluding several ‘involving teams
from all over the country. The team
will be entered in the Hearst In-
tercollegiate Match (National) and
the Third Army Intercollegiate,
Match (Southeastern U. S.). Many
of the matches will be postal. How-
ever, a number of trips to other
Colleges and to Universities ara
contemplated.

With the arrival this week of
uniforms for all cadets who could
not be fitted at the time of regis.
tration, it is expected that the Ca-
det Corps will soon be able to
appear for drill attired throughout
in the prescribed uniform.

LOCAL FIRE ENGINE (¢
AS BLAZE INLAUNDRY ROARS

which pulls buttons off students’
shirts and shoots them through each
pair of sox. It is rumored that
this machine was located between
the vat in which the legs of cotton
trousers are glued together and
the device for changing creases a
quarter of an inch to one side of
their original place, thus producing
the “square look.” These machines
should be located in the general
area of the monster-like mechan-
ism which smears one crumbling,
sledge hammer blow on the collar
of each freshly washed and pressed
white Shirt. ©

As the intensity of the situation
mounted, Head Cheerleader Char-
lie Mitchell stepped forward and
climbed up on a soapsbox. Borrow.
ing a terrified freshman’s mega-
phone, he summoned his cronies
to assist him in leading a few
cheers. From the mighty throng
rose the cry of “Burn Laundry!”
Then came the petition, “No more
washdays, rips and hurts. We'll
have buttons on our shirts.”

It is suspected that, while all
this activity which has since been
labelled subversive by school

expectations of

The vym will measure up

the. old men and will be
a delight to both them and the new
men.

The main floor, which is of ma-
ple scraped to a smooth surface, is
large enough to accommodate two
basketball games at the same time.
A wide balcony extends around
three sides of the Gym, furnishing
ample room for the spectators...

The building is of the colonial
type ahd is builteof red brick,

The equipment is to be modern
and up-to-date in every detail.”

Today: whew we gaze upon this
structure and scratch our heads,
we might wonder just what it was
that those men saw to be so de-
lighted about in this inadequate
building. Let us not he too hasty
in our judgment, fer if we look
beyond the brick and mortar we
can sce, in this building, the pro-
gress that Davidson has made over
the years. We can look back to a
day when such a structure was not
inadequate, when men could be
proud of this, their new Gymna-
sium, and boast that the main floor
was large enough to accommodate
two basketball games at the same
time, and be proud’of the fact that
the balcony furnished ample room

(Continued on Page Eight)

GROWLS

authorities, was taking place out in
front, a number of inspired fresh-
men behind the building were try-
ing to execute an impiously
wicked plot to empty the contents
of a fifty-five gallon drum of gaso-.
line on the flames. Word comes
from the campus underworld that
the plot was conceived by a coali-
tion of conniving upperclassmen,
predominately seniors.

(Continued On Page Eight)

STUDENT LEADERS HEAD
SECTIONS IN PARADE
Eleven student leaders at David-
son College have been chosen to
captain sections in the Parade of
Progress here Saturday morning.
Student , leaders named are

19 Week-eEND

{whom the gym is named; Mr. J.

Tucker Blaine, Houston, Tex;, Bill;

Cornelius, Marion, S. C.; Frank
McCutchan, Jes Salisbury; Allan
D. Macy, Cumberland, Md.; Hobart
Martin, Walkertown, Tenn.; P. W.
Miles, DeFuniak Springs, Fla.;
Charlie. Harrell, Thomasville, Ga.;
Kenneth Brotherton, Davidson;
John B, Nisbet, Jr., Jacksoaville,
Fla.; Jim Templin, Atlanta, Gs.,
and Zan Turner,

| Me.

~_____ |GIX-PART PROGRAM PRESENTED
IN CHAMBERS AUDITORIUM

Presenting a six-part sprogram of sixteen numbers, Miss
Margaret Truman, soprano, accompanied by Herman Allison at
the piano, gave the first concert of the 1949 artist series last
“hight at 9:15 in Chambers Auditorium. Beginning with *‘O’er

the Ganges,’ ‘‘My Dearest Heart.” and ‘‘The Dance,” three
light Italian Ivrics composed by

. Scarlatti, Giordani, and Durante,

P e Vi e Miss. Truman moved into a deeper
rominent ViSitOFS | vein. sincine an aria trom “The
Marriage of Figaro,’ by Mozart.

In the third part of the pro-
gram, Miss Truman reridered in
German four compositions selected
from the wotks of Schumann,
Strauss and Schubert. Three of
these, “Der Nussbaum'' (' The Nut
Trees” “Aw Die Nachtigall’ “The
Nightingale,” and “Staudchen,” are
written to tetl df love. The fourth,.
“Die ~ Forelle’' ("THe Frout’’)
shows the griet tech when an angler
caught a trout.

At the end of the fourth muan-
ber a shorf intevmission was ob.
served followed by a briet recital

Attend Homecoming

Well-known men in the South
and in the nation will take part ‘in
the dedication of Davidson’s new
gymnasium or will in other ways
be active participants in the Homeé-
coming program this week end.

Those who will assist in the dedi-
cation of the gymnasium include:
Horace Johnston, son o1
Charles Worth ‘Johnston — after

A. Cannon, Concord, North Caro-
lina, chairman of the Trustee Com.

mittee on Buildings and Grounds;|by Me: Allison on the piano. He
Mr. Spencer Love, Washington, D.| presented “Capriccio” by Bach,
C., chairman of the Board of Di-[{ “Intermezzo Opus 116, No 6" by
rectors of Burlington Mills, and{ Brahms, and “Impromptu in F.
chairman of Davidson’s National] minor” by Faure.

Deve nt Comniittee; Dr. Miss Traman chose from her
James A. Jones, pastor of Myers] repertoire “lia Primavera’ (“To

the Spring’’) a Spanish number by
Glazounow which she sang in Eng
lish as the fifth part of her concert.

In conclusion the nationally
known soprano sang four ‘native
American scores. The first was
“The Piper,’ by Duke, followed
by “He Stole My Heart Away,”
an early Revolutionary song, ar-
ranged by Samuel Endicott. The
jast two were “Three Little Elt
Songs” hy Besly and “Will o’ the
Wisp.” by Spross.

Miss Truman arrived in’ Char-
lottle Tuesday night after driving
from Knoxville. She remained in
Charlotte at the Barringer Hotel
unul Friday when she came to
Davidson.

While -on
tended a small

Park Presbyterian Church, Char-
lotte, North Carolina, and vice-
chairman of Davidson's National
Development Committee.

Other men who will aid in the’
Homecoming celebration are: Rev.
P. D. Patrick, Kings Mt. North
Carolina, moderator of the Synod
of North Carolina; Rev. J. W. Con.
yers, Gainsville, Florida, moderator
of the Synod’ of Florida; Dr. J.
McDowell Richards, president of
Columbia Theological Seminary,
Decatur, Georgia; Mr. David
Owens of J. B, Ivey and Co., Char-
lotte, N. C.; Mr. Scott Candler,
Commissioner of Roads and Reve-
nues of De Kalb County, Georgia;
Mr. E. Smythe Gambrell, Atlanta,
Georgia; Mr. Henry T. Mills,
Greenville, South Carolina; Mrs.
B. W. Montgomery, Spartanburg,

South Carolina; Mr, John I. Sm

Greenville, S. C.; Mr. D. L. in|

the campus: she at.
réveption at ths
Giest House, attended by» the
members ot the National, Faculty
and Student Devélopment Commit-

vice-chairman of Davidson’s De-| tees. Miss Truman alo attended

velopment Program; Mr. H. Rofa dinner presetited by President
Weeks, architect of the new gymn;] Cusningham. The leaders in tho
Mr. F. N. Thompson, contractor| Development Drive and close

friends of De. Cuuninghani present
on the campus for. the homecom-
ing, were invited,

Friday Night Dance|Judge Rice Declares
hitiate Gymnasium|Holiday For Court

Last night the first dance of the; This week there was no. sep ion
1949 Homecoming set was held in| of the Conrt of Control in order to
the, new John Gymnasium. | allow «a break for the Homecoming
From the Mtarparet Trumaa con-} Week-end. Ina lengthy and’ de-
cert in Chambers Auditorium, the [ tailed interview, thé chicf judge of
spirited crowd swarmed onto the} the court, Doug Rice, told this’ re-
new gym floor with a swirl of full] porter, that. due to the unfortunate
skirts and tails. relapse, there «will be a much

The newly finished gym was} greater number of freshmen viola-
softly lighted and handsomely|tors on the docket the following
adorned with streamers of crepe} week, There was already a long list
paper. in a variation of designs.| this week, filled with many serious
Each social group was allotted af crimes and freshman violators, but
special section in which to dance. {they will be withheld until next

Blue Barron and his orchestra,/ weck, Two reasons for this was
along with his featured vocalists,| that there would be no point in
Pat Laird, and Bobby Beers, led | campusing the criminal this week-
the swinging and swaying of this} end, and that both the. dates and
first 1949 Homecoming hop. Blue] the convicted men would most
Barron, noted for his slow dance| likely be embarassed if seen to.
music, is at Davidson for the first] gether, due to the apparel that

for the new gym, and Mr.
Street; also a contractor for
uym.,

shel

time, would be worn by the freshman.
During the course of the evening, Judge Rice has made an appeal,
the annual Pan.Hell figure was|to all upper-classmen to consider

seriously the offense of the guilty
person. The offense should only be
one of those included in the infrac
tions of the freshman regulations.
A definite crime should be charg-
ed to the freshmen and not one of
general or of an unusual nature
should be turned into he court,
said Judge Rice. He also asked.
that all upper-classmen.be watchful
of all violators by the freshmen and
turn in those that are considered
within reasonable limits a specific
breach of the freshman regulations.

presented. The members of the
Pan-Helt and their dates, along
with the fraternity presidents and
their dates, took part in this gala
affair.

However, last night’s merry-
making is only half of it. Tonight
will be the informal half of the
set. With the alumni and the added
Saturday dates, this ball should
bring to a successful climax a most
noted long: long to bé remembered
occasion.

Monticello Design
Chambers Building, main build-
ing at Davidson College, is an en-
larged model of Monticello,
Thomas Jefferson’s Virginia home,

The Davidsonian is the official
weekly paper of Davidson College.
It deserves every student’s support,
