According» to sta- q
tistics released Thurs-
day, Davidson's eagers
lead the nation in the
free throw  depart-
ment. Out of 867 op-
portunities frome the
foul line, the Wildeats
have hit 262 times for
an average of .714.T Iris
aceuraecy has paid off
more than onee this
season in enabling the
Cats to grab victories
Which may not have
been theirs on field —
goals alone, : -_ 8.

Definitely Coach By JACK HAZARD
Norman Shepard's boys also drew a rating. That of being the
number three defensive squad in? the South, This, by: virtile
of/allowing opponents an average of 46.1 points per game.
Shepard is regarded as a master of defense formations and has
aogreat aptitude for solving tricky walls of opponents as well
as throwing in some rough ones of his own. His shifting man-
foaman employed by the locals las caused many aefoe to set
their offensive gears against a zone defense,

Victories in Virginia last week-end served as sufficient to
assure Davidson of its second Southern Conference Tourna-
nent appearance in as many years. The Cats warmed up Eri-
day night against VMI and came out with a 1-3) win, Then
they stayed hot Saturday migiN@to hand the Washington &
Lee General their worst defeat in history, The CGenera's had
Neen riding high before that with a neat average of something
over 70 points per game for their last few outings. Then Mike
Williams, Buddy Cheek, Whit Cobb and Ed Hopper opened up
and showed the Lexington folks that there is a basketball
team doiwn here in North Mecklenburg County. The afore-

mentioned gentlemen pumped in over a hundred points be- *

tween them in the week-end of work.

N.C. State’s Wolverines evidently didn’t read the elip-
pings of these games or if they did, they didn’t believe them.
The Pack rudely set the keyed up Wildcats on theit respective
rears as it waltzed to a 62-54 verdiet Tuesday night. The win
extended State’s grip over Davidson's athletes this year
eross eountry excepted. The Raleigh lads are the ouly ones
who have topped 60 points against the Cats this year. They
have now accontplished the feat tavice.

The way the present line-up stands, Davidson could well
be forced to meet, State in the semi-finals of the totinament,
Barring some collapse we look for them to go that far. George
Washington has taken over second place in the conference
standings, pushing the Presbyterians to third and consequent-
ly in the same bracket is first-place State,. However, a look
at the remaining schedules of the two teams favor Davidson
to regain its second place rating and a chance for a crack-at
State in the finals, it being assumed that the Wolves will come
ut on top of the upper bracket,

Davidson journeys to Charlotte Tnesday night for the
iast time (jwe hope) to meet Carolina’s White Phantoms in
au return mateh, The student body may well breathe a sigh of
relief that this will be fhe Armory finale. As we pointed out
earlier it is a matter of great inconvenience for the students to
travel to the Queen City for a mid4week performanee. And
even more inconvenient to be Toreed into the lousy seating
facilities which the authorities have forced upon them.

As was the case in the State game in Charlotte, all seats
will be reserved except those in the end zones. This includes
those baleony seatsdwhich a few more fortunate students got
by swallowing their supper whole or not eating at all and then
dashing to the Armory. We believe that the students should
be praised for their support of the Charlotte games under the
cireumstanees, We also feel that if no students showed up
for those games that the fault would be solely with those who
scheduled the games over there.

As we acknowledged before, it is necessary to schedule the»
major games-in Charlotte in order that the Athletic Assodia-
tion may realize some renumeration for its basketball pro-
gram, But we hope that when the new gym is completed here
in Davidson that the students will get the break for a change.

WHATEVER :

YOUR NEEDS

SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS

: PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES

and the 101 other things

SHOP
EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR

SHIP AHOY

CHARLOTTE’S LEADI NG RESTAURANT

Wildcat Sports ey

Friday, February 18,1949 THE DAVIDSONIAN oe m PAGE THREB

2 Wildcats Cinch Tournament Bid
With Pair of Wins; Bow to State

| By GGRDON SCOTT

| After clinching an invitation to play in the Southern Con-
ference Tournament by virtue of wins over VMI and Washing-
fon and Lee on a week-end trip to Virginia, Davidson's spirited
Wildeats were rudely set back on their heels by Coach Everett
Case's N.C. State Wolfpack by a Score of 62-34. It was the

Freshmen Top EMI,

Belmont Cegers

By BILL BUCKEY

hast week saw the point-happy

Nitten basketball squad rack — two
more Victories into their win
column,

Thursday night they more than
doubled their opponent's score in
whipping Edwards Military Acad-

emy, 67-32, Brady Osborne led the — Pini Fine ty cee pasa teMeaeneale ce at
Way with 20 points, while TLC. SAF’ Ti h G M Bene et leah elit
Coleman followed up with 19, Pull § 1g ten rp petition

ing away from a half-time seore of a pee Pee NS SEs oy eculy
| 27-14, Osborne ripped the cords for F t C g L, eek pon Bat
15 counters in the third period as on 1d a e OOP iss et ie ee
the frosh made nine out of 12 free By BRYAN ROBINSON ve AnS bi BN arenas

throws. This, week saw the SAE's move; is a two-day st in Lexington,

, . : \y me
Simpson led Edwards Militar pabeeuUctisiniiecl Ca CU IT MAb CGEEL Ys Aun een

with 14, League in the matter of basketball, Notice v weakened by the ab-
Saturday night the Kittens, led Bye WUE SIS UMM traighe game pscnce of thei ward, Eddie
by Bill Brooks with 18 points Re ts against no lo Res he number] Lutes, the Keydets of VMI were
/tigain came out on the lang end of We eo Aa SAU Kappa Sigmias | unable to threaten: off ively, and
| the score as they trapped Belmont Ee PVE WOW LOU aie JOSt None se AvIdsOn Ss thick: ork kept
Abbey 47-41. Brooks set a sizzline | ete OO NIER a Me eH ee : OREO EUG
pace from the: FV. line as he oie shal FU: ht. With Mike Williams dropping
}dropped in eight out of eight and | Phe WANS started the week off by | tm seven point \ Bill Iverson
Must have been a good example for | dying the Sigmas Chis, 29-27, Then | two, tl Visiting Cats posted nine
hissrunning mates as they made the Phi Gams beat the DPikas, 4-22, | peints before the | lets could
good 21 out of 26 Alten pts: yu the following days the Inde- | tind the nets for a tall
Phe frosh now have an enviable pendents beat the SU's 27-21, the With Cheek and Williams lead-
{Gea whieloee recordculid mecreoal) Senna Chis achieved their first win ing the wav, Davidson ran up 29
behind “em to keep it up. by beating the Dikas, 26-22 Phe | points by half ti niting the
eae eeeenas fr Betas then turned back the Phi] Keydets to eight, A) second halt
Ci ; 29-21, fand the SAE*%S | rally by the: home team fizzled out
Ci d T k trounced the Pi Kappa Phi's, 37-21, | shortly aftersit began, and Davidson
In ermen a e To Phe last game of the week on Tues- | took the upper hand for the re-
ay might again involved the KA's. | mainder of the ume, with Coach
Boards at Carolina Seldom were the Wnights hotter.) Shepard reserves freely,
wid they racked up a 44-21 victory | Pinal scone stood at 51-31, David-
By BILL WHITE over the Campus club json. Cheek with 12 points and Wil-
Pete Whitth's advance guard of Won lost liam With 13) topped the winner's
spring, his winter track crew, for- Ast ) i) Rous .
sakes the cinders for the hardwood KS 4 Ver Phe following Wik ison’s
Saturday when it goes into action WA } 1 | red-hot quintet wer 1 the road
at Chapel Hill in the Southern Con Phi Welt ] Sas I e VMI
ference Indoor meet in Carolina's Vetas 3 2 SRY Vashing ton
Woolen Gymnasium, Independents 2 3 | and Te General Davidson en-
Hampered for space in which to Wha Gam zi 3 pts red the game , decid d tavorite,
work, the Cat cindermen have again SHIPS Pea 2 3 j bere TEW BUeS ed that the Cats would
converted Chamber's main hall into Oral | Sead MlAad soundly “trounce the Generals as
a late afternoon sprint straight-away Ii Nappa Phi | fj, |ithey did
for the dashes and hurdles, On the : Vika. | 4 | ana Uae} d ter than 70
warm, clear days, they have stuck to ; SHE EACI, } sed BE eee by Sa teen eet bt el
the out-of-doors, This. past week, PO aRy MANER : ici - PUES oe pu a determined effort to qualify for
however, Whittle has worked a ies <7 ARO Salt nt month, The
his charges inside Chambers to get INTRODUCIN’ Duke Defeats WL. marksmen ue id do no better
them accustomed to the hardwood OO 2 hich looming eet see While
feel. By DAN McKEITHEN Davidson Matmen ence Wass iMiigea- Held cay
As yet, the small contingent™rep- When the subject of basketball (a school basketball teanm before, al | The first halt of the play saw the
papi cio irieae a aan alae i brought up, automatically Mer | though he had played some in. the By FURMAN WARLICK | Cats gradually pul y from
’ ‘ : ‘}comes to mind a gaunt 6%-footer,| YMCA City Leaeue. After two On February 12, the wrestlers} the home ‘boys 27-18
however, Jack (Gunder) Gray, Blake dropping a ball down a basket, but leary s Of constant, hard work, the | from-Duke University defeated the lDavidsan—s Ore ch posted
Bradley and Bob Long are top men ; | aaa : ee siedteha

around Davidson little Bobb¥ Maner J ageressive boy broke inte the start-| Davidson matmen bv the lint as to

from Wilmington, N. C., is,not at}ing line-1 since }28 to 5. Davidson's squad was! the offensive firew
all out of place on the basketball] that time has held his own a

‘ i fener; RN Se score of | by halt time gave a
in the varsity division, while ‘Tom | j ae

last season and that were

Stockton has been showing strong
s g ong afhandi€apped by the loss of Captain} to break, loose follawing intermis-

for the frosh in the three-quarter court. Probably the smallest player} regular Jintiny Jung and Mott Price. Duke | sion

nue, in the Southern Conference at five On the coutty Bobby iS always af won both of these bouts by for “Sparky” Cobb led the Davidsons
Ken Goodpasture, a newcomer.to|foot eight inches, Bobby is often | hustler, and hie spirit vives ae team | feit. The loss of these two top per- |} with 17 points, swisl he nets for

track who looks like a heaven-sent|seen quickly stealing the ball from }an added ditt, \ fod ball handler, |formers hurt. Davidson's chanees,d four field woal 1 9 out of 10

gift to the 100 with Ed Newton out|a larger opponent. {this scrappy senior uses his speed4 but better things are expected from | free throws. Williams and Cheek

of school, will be the No. 1 in the When Maner entered Davidsdin as }to be a very reliabl defensive mt matmen when these two are | contributed 10 and 13 points respec.
(Continued On Page Four) a freshman he had never played on | (Continued On Page Four) (Continued On Page Four)

(Continued On Page

Four)

HOW MILD A
CIGARETTE CAN BE!
I'VE SMOKED CAMELS
FOR YEARS!

a combo
e
ing arrange™m
t-tapping afr : :
: 4 ai “ol puts “Cruising
i ue ‘ i
ann a ae e, Blue Barron lik
a oe sticks to One brane
is vocalist
5 téling his vocalist,

there
2 g for a

e stylin
tron has 4 f fir 4

shuffle an

¢ tune.
» into fast Wal”
smoking»

Blue i

garete be“?

DAY TEST eee

The Ba
of Dixie, a
eable
cai the River
to mix his rhythms
— Camel. Here af
Betty Clarke,

Liaw MILD cana ¢!

CAMEL 30-

: THE 30-DAY MILDNESS
1 know *

Make the

and you —— TEST CONVINCED ME.
ke the 30-day Cane nee a recent CAMELS ARE
Yes, make jld Camels °° ced only uy
he yourself how! a 58 who she ai SO MILD -AND TASTE
£ h i! od t nroa ‘ ‘
eas for 30 oy ‘ peminationss reported SO Goop!
weekly
after ma ag.

Mone yf = Back Guarantee!

Smoke Camels and test*them in your own
“T-Zone.” T for taste, T for throat. If, at
any time, you are not convinced thac Camels
are the mildest cigarette you ever smoked,
return the package with the unused Camels
and we will refund its full purchase price,
plus postage. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds To-
bacco Co., Winston-Salem, N, C.

NOT ONE SINGLE CASE
|; OF THROAT IRRITATION

due lo smoking

—d

