PAGE SIX

NBWs IN BRIBF...
(Continued From Page 3)

School of Aeronautics in Tulsa,
Okla.

Fred Ransom McAlister wed
Lillian (Burkhalter) of Charlotte,
February 19, 1950.

William Haywood Bobbitt, Jr., is
engaged to Miss Harriette Carolyn
Riley of Charlotte. They will be
wed in April. ' ;

Campbell Gilchrist Henderson 1s
engaged to marry Miss Wyndall
Grace Mason of Charlotte iri June.

Dick Baxter wed Heien “Woolie’
Boyle of Charlotte last Dec. 17.

James Alexander Briggs wed
Doris Ann Cryer of Charlotte Jan.
1.

John De Witt Yarbrough, Lt., U.
S. Army, wed Eleanor Stanyarne,
Oct. 29 in Washington, D. C.

William Samuel Lander wed Bet-
ty Jean Higdon of Charlotte, Nov.
5, 1949. William Robertson and Bob
Bumbarger were ushers.

James Page Jackson wed Miss
Jeanne Gregory Dungan of Salis-
bury, November 26, 1949.

Henry Parks Neisler wed M:
Marilyn Biggers of Charlotte, Nov,
8, 1949,

Charles Cunningham wed Miss
Beverly Danforth Nov. 25, 1949
in Scarsdale, N. Y.

CHORUS...

(Continued From Page 3)
arrangements, and selected Negro
spirituals. The sacred program va-
ries from the works of the sixteenth
century masters to those of present
day composers.

There will be solo work by Har-
rison Taylor, Bill Whitesides, and
Rob Palmer. Also Paul Jenkins,
the chorus’ accompanist Will re-
der solds on the organ.

Two years ago thé chorus gave
their annual spring concerts ia
Florida. Last year they visited At-
lanta, western North Carolina and
Tennessee.

CUNNINGHAM...

(Continued From Page One)
professors.
Professor of Speech, Raymond

I:the’ cost of educating each student

NEW TUITION RAISES WILL
NOT COVER INCREASED COSTS

An increase of $100 in tuition and
fees and an addition of approximate.
ly $15,000 ‘to the scholarship fpro-
gram for needy students, both to be
reffective in September, were an-
nounced today by Davidson Col-

lege officials.

The new schedule of fees pro-
vides a $75 a year increase in tui.
tion charges and a $25 a year raise

lin dormitory room rent, bringing
tuition to a total of $375 and room
rent to $125 a year.

The Trustees of the college who
authorized the increase rates stipu-
lated that 20 per cent — approxi-
mately $15,000 — of the new rev-
enue be used to help needy, worthy
students obtain education. This year
the college paid approximately $43,-
000 in scholarship aids and $11,000
more for part time jobs,

The $25 boost in room rent is
the. first change in dormitory fees
in approximately 15 years. During
this time maintenance costs on the
buildings have more than doubled.

Tuition charges have been raised
in the past ten years from $200 to
$300, a 50 per cent increase, while

jumped 180 per ‘cent.

Despite the increases, Davidson's
charges are still low in compari.
sion with other southern colleges.
In announcing the changes, Prest-
dent John R. Cunningham said that
“even, with the mew rates our tui-
tion and fees will be as low as any
college controlled by the Southern
Presbyterian Church.”

DR. WATTS HONORED...
(Continued From Page One)

of Dr. Lucius G. Moffatt, Head of
the University of Virginia Depart-
ment of Romance Languages.

The Davidson College Alumni
‘Association of Charlottesville was
represented at the several events
by its President, Dr. John Daniel
of the class of 1928 and Mrs. Dan.
iel.

THB DAVIDSONIAN

EU REOEIVES....
(Continued From Page One)
those who love to farm and garden

merely for the sense of seeing
things grow and of feeling the se-

curity of the soil. Tom McDonald,

—_

COLLEGE COSTS RISE

Percent of increase in cost of
educating each student and in
tuition charges at Davidson
College (1940-49).

read a Satirical paper entitled
“Sophomores on the Grass at Last.”
He humorously told of the extremes
to which the sophomores go when
they are freed from the shackles
which bound them as_ freshmen.
Bobby. Walker gave a biographical
sketch of Harry Houdini which did
proper justice to that magician's
amazing and incredible feats. Next
Frank Wallace presented “An la-
cident in a Story” which told of
a man’s waking up to bitter reality
after a “high” night. Ted Carr read
“The Development of One Aspect
of Life,” a local color story of a
boy’s father explaining why he
knew there was a God through the
use of simple examples there in the
country which were well under.
stood by his young son. Pat Mc-
Geachy read three very good poems;
one was a highly ornamented Pin-
daric Ode which showed a de-
gree of command of poetic verse.
There were two other short ones
entitled “Iwo Jima’ and “A Cynic’s
Soliloquy.” Lastly Dudley Pendle-
FIRST MIAMI... ton read “Change Stop” which was

. (Continued From Page One) a presentation of the realistic, hard
each of the three fraternities then] thoughts of an impatient boy and
played several numbers after whicn | how he was changed by an incident
Bill Trotman, Neil: O'Neil, and Al of kindness and appreciation.

‘Juse in

Miller each presented an amusing
feature number. The famous Beta

Tne society unanmousty voted
to receive all these men into its

W. Tyson will be a member of the
faculty next year.

A committee of Trustees has been
formed jo take action on the im-
mediate plans of building the new
Church and W. K. Belk dormitory
which is called for in the develop- ‘
ment program. Official announcement. of © the

A great portion of the time of the | naming of Dr. Carriere and Dr.
Board of ‘Trustees was engaged in| Watts was made last October hy
discussion of development of a|the Ambassador of France, His
definite athletic policy. A commit- Excellency M. Bonnet. The citation
tee. was jormed to further explore} of the Davidson French professor
the facts of the problem and to for-| ead in part: “Tam happy to con-

mulate a policy to he adopted by|statulate you on this distinction
the college. well deserved which gives witness

—_— of the gratitude of the French Gov-
UNITED NATIONS...

ernment for the+ eminent services

rendered to the cause of French

(Continued: From Page 3) cifture and the French language by

ly impassable, even in the most fav-| your teaching and, the indefatigable

orable times.. activity which you have never ceas-

Thus — except at the Mediter-}&4 t© show as Secretary-Treasurer |

ranean and Danubian extremities of of the American Association of
the chain — there is no permanent Teachers of French.

road ‘link between the millions of | | Mes. avait accompanied her
people who live on either side of | (US?ANG an attended the events of

this vast mountain barrier, al-| ‘le day. Among the guests were Dr.
though five main railway lines cross | W. Edwin Hemphill of the Univer-
it by means of tunnels. But while | SY of Virginia Library, a former
many projects for a road tunnel un- member of the Davidson College
der Mont Blanc have been put for- faculty, and Mrs. Hemphill, the for-
ward during the last 180 years,|™¢" Miss Susan Moffett,of David-
none ever came to fruition, mainly
due perhaps to strategic and mili-
tary objections. -

Dr. John R. Cunningham, Presi-
dent of Davidson Collége, sent of-
ficial greetings to the President of
the University of Virginia. Dr. Car.
riere, and the Cultural Counselor of
the French Embassy.

e

OLDEST LIVING...
Now, as the result of the Franco- (Continued From Page 3)
Italian agreement, an eight mile|S¢¢, hills. He has appeared with
tunnel under the Alps is scheduled Hal Haynes and Dave Blevins dur-
to be completed by 1953, It will]iMg many entertainment (?) activi.
tun from Chamonix in France .to | "¢s.
Courmayeur in Italy, and will pass} Quincy picked up his D.as a
10,000 feet below the mountain| Wrestling manager; then was con-
tops. It will carry a two-lane high- vinced that his training talents
way and have space for an electric] should be spread to all athletic
rail track, to be installed at a later | teams instead of just the grapplers.
date. A special ventilation system,|5° he is now chief trainer in the
similar to that used in tunnels un-| Ww Johnston Gymnasium. If you
der the Hudson River in New York| "ew Johnston Gymnasium. If you
City, is also planned. step down to the gym for that plus
The tunnel will have one furth-|@ 800d bit of philosophy and humor
er international use. High tension
electric power lines will pass] COL. PERRY CONDUCTS...
through, protected from snow, to (Continued From Page One)
permit a freer distribution of elec-| many he was in charge of all troop
tric power between France, Switzer- | movement, transportation and trai.
land, Italy and Austria. fic for-the Third Army: following
One of these days, perhaps not| cessation of hostilities, he com-
too far in the future, the ECE’s al-| manded a large cavalry unit in
ready completed engineering de-| Czechoslovakia.
signs may actually be serving those| Returning from overseas in 1945,
people and things which  travel| Colonel Per y commanded a large
through Europe. number of troops at the Armored
A man then might be able to get | School, Fort Knox, Kentucky: he
on a train in London and reach his | was also made a special consultant
destination somewhere in the Bal-| to the State Dept.
kans without leaving his coach. A| The Cotone} assumed command of
parcel, or a carload of goods, could| the North Carolina Military Dis-
be sent directly and quickly from] trict in July, 1948. He has attend-
one end of the Continent to theled the following Army Schools:
the countries of Europe, experts] Cavalry School, Chemical Schooi,
avow, could not fail to strengthen| Armored Force College and the
the more subtle ties hetween the] Armored School. A much-decorat.
peoples of those countries, thus fur-]ed officer, Colonel Perry holds the
thering not only better trade andj Silver Star, Legion of Merit, Bronze
commercial relations, but also, the} Star Medal, Legion of , Honor
causes of peace and international! (French), Croix de Guerre with
understanding for which U. N. was| palms (French), and the Recon.
primarily created. naisance Medal.

a Ce

chorus rendered the three frater-
nity songs in somewhat varied style,
and Davidson's “Andrews Sisters” | versity in Oxford, Ohio — ecame
performed ‘in their own. modest) a reality at Davidson in 1948 when
way. Fletcher Bright and Ansley|the present chapter of Sigma Chi
Moses- beat out several mountain] was founded. Beta Theta Pi has
melodies. Grady Spires then con-| the distinction of being the first
cluded the banquet with a few] fraternity to organize a chapter at
choice remarks, Davidson as they came to the cam-

The Miami Triad — so named | pus in 1858. In 1928 the first. repre
as all.three of the member fraterni.| sentative chapter of Phi Delta
ties were founded at Miami Uni-| Theta was organized here.

PEGGY DOW

Beautiful Northwestern Alumna, says:

**My very first Chesterfield made
mea Chesterfield smoker for keeps.
They’re MILDER.”

“WOMAN IN HIDING”

A UNIVERSAL-INTERNATIONAL PICTURE

. +
Ii OBERING LIBRARY
5. p NORTHWESTERN UNIV.

* By Recent Copy.isht 1990, Lacorre & Mytis Toaacco Co.

| @ National Survey

LT

Ss

membership. Pete Kalogridis made
a short report concerning the pro.
grams for the futitre meetings.
Lastly, Hartley Hall and Bill Holl-
ister issued a challenge to debate
any two on the subject of “Capital
Punishment” whioh Pete Kalogridis
and Jack Hunter accepted.

INN DWELLERS MOVED...
(Continued From Page One)
the Inn moved to the cardboard
village; the other six moved into

the various dormitories.

During the remaining dance week
ends of this semester, Mré. Littic
stated that the Inn would be open
to girls.

Mrs. Little concluded that no
plans have been made to remodel
or rebuild the Inn in the future.

EFFECT OF RADIATION...
(Continued From Page One)

Every organism synthesizes the
acid compounds which are incorp-
orated in its own body. How are the
compounds formed in these chromo
somes affected by subjection to ra-
diation? ‘

The bio-organic chemistry de-
partment helps in answering the
above question by supplying com-
pounds produced by living bodies
which may be used in experiments
td determine the effects of radia-
tion on the chromosomes. Also
these compounds are distributed for
cancer research throughout
the country.

The bio-physics department deals
especially with the problem of pho-
tosynthesis. It also deals with the
more general effects of radiation on
soi} and other physical objects.

Ultra-violet ratliation is absorbed
through tanning of the skin in long
waves. Necular acids formed by
chromosomes absorb closer or
shorter wave lengths of ultra-violet
radiation to undergo certain chang-
es. Shorter wave lengths will pro-
duce these genial changes. The pro-

et

Theyre MOILDER! Theyre TOPS/

tection of the ozone layer around
the earth keeps man from absorb-

ing these shorter waves of ultra-
violet ation given off by the
sun,

Our chief problem is to deter-
mine thé percentage of survival. of
the cells after immediate radiation,
and, if possible, to produce a means
of defense from these radiations. In
the exposure of organisms to radia-
tion, the organisms survive at a
greater percentage if they are imme-
lately exposed to certain amounts
f sonlight. The Paramecium is
used widely in this type of experi-
ment. The rate of mitosis is affect-
ed in a latter stage by subjection to
various amounts of radiation.

Can a man take the same amoun
of radiation in one instance as hi
could. take over a longer period of
time? Due to the fact that a cel
can repair itself from radiation dur
ing the subjection to radiation on
ly up to a certain quantity of radia
tion, a man cannot take the sane
amount of radiation at one sitting
that he could over a longer period
of time.

BIKO .

(Continued From Page Two)

al movement toward one pgreat
society of all people that would in
its completion result in a social
setup, not even requiring yovern-
mental institutions,

lt is interesting to notice ‘hat

"Hegel in his writing also discussed

the historical theory that was men-
tioned in the first part. He, how-
ever, believes that this development
will stop as soon as the ideal com-
munistic ‘society is established.
This is in vital cortrast with the
conception, as gliscussed, in this,
theme, because we see as a result
from the Christian teachings, no
end in this development until Christ
comes back on earth to establish
certain stage in the cell. ,

a ee

CU rr

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1950

DIRECTOR TROTMAN ...
(Continued From Page One)

Five Pesos’’ will be equally divided
between Dorothy Herring as

“Berta” and Wylie Smith as “Fidel
-Duran.” ‘

An attractive brunet, Dorothy will
have an opportunity to run the
gamut of emotions as the fiery, tem-
peramental and jealous, yet ever-
loving sweetheart of Fidel. A grad-
uate of Chevy Chase College in
Washington, and a native of Win-
ston-Salem, she is presently serv.
“ng as secretary to Mr. I'fohl of the
music department “Rerta” is her
first role in a college production.

Wylie Smith, a Charlotte senior,
and set designer turned actor, is
playing his first leading role. He
has previously designed the sets for
“Arsenic and Old Lace” «nd “John
loves Mary” and, as | puts it,
“has done something in au the rest.”
Check up another accomplishment
for Wylie, alian Fidel Duran, as he
plays one Latin heart against an-
other and comes up with his hands
full of “wild” cards in “Sunday
Costs Five Pesos.”

Taken separately or as a group
these leads promise two nights of
lop-quality entertainment for Feb.
27 and 28.

WHEREVER YOU Go!

Remember this seal — it’s
your assurance of the best!

/N AMERICAS COUPGES
“)) WITH THE TOP MEN IN SPORTS
WITH THE HOLLYWOOD STARS
