HOLIDAY TRAFFIC CRASHES KILL DAVIDSOK STUDENTS

Though they profess to a high set of ideals and are affili-
ated with a church, Davidson students aren't immune from
dying in highway accidents. The story is always an ugly one,
but unavoidably true. Three fatal accidents have been recorded

Take a Good Look

Could Be Yours

ROAD WAS SLIPPERY,
CURVE WAS SHARP .

VOLUME XXXIX

Y. 1.6.8. &

—Photo by Faye Ridenour, Fayetteville, N. C.

ALENDA

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY. DECEMBER 15, 1950

a |

among students of the college

in the-last three years. This is

an exceptionally low rate in view of existing college-age death
rates, but statistics fail to add up to parents and friends.

Joe Matthis had just returned

from a hitch in the army prior to

his enrollment at Davidson iy September, 1947. Like a lot of other guys
he had in mind finishing his delayed college career. Joe went through
most of the Pacific War withqut a serious injury, yet he lost his life at
the wheel of an automobile A truck had broken down and its driver
had gone in search of a wrecker crew. Joe was returning to school from
his home in Wilmington, when his car smashed into this unlighted

truck. That was October 31, 1947.

Death came again in the black
27, 1948. Bill was a good boy, made

of night to Bill Gamble on March
Eagle Scout and played varsity ball

with the ‘Cats after coming to Davidson. He planned to be a doc. He
and Charlie Raidwin were riding double on a motorcycle to Florida for
the Easter Holidays. Bill must never have seen those two stray cows
.. -he never woke up after his head was bashed against unmerciful as-
phalt. Charlie was thrown free. Bill died in a country hospital in Jessup,
Georgia. The nurses there commented on his clean appearance. It wasn't
his fault, but Bill Gamble was just as dead.

When Neil Leach and Scott Verner packed Scott’s Buick convertible
in preparation for their return to Davidson after Spring Holidays last
year, they thought they had taken up most of the room. However there

was yet another passenger along on

that trip who waited some time be.

fore making his appearance. The drive from: DeFuniak Springs, Florida

ZUR UB)

Che Dabidsonian

ORTA LIBERTAS

COAL

JIM MURRAY WILL GO TO OXFORD AS
DAVIDSON'S NINTH RHODES’ SCHOLAR

Last Saturday afternoon Jim

(J. J.) Murray, Jr., of the
Senior Class, became David-
son’s ninth Rhodes Scholar. In
district competition held in
Charlotte, Jim was one of the
four men appointed from
twelve representing six south-
ern states.

Earlier in the week in Richmond
Jim had been selected as one of the
two candidates from Virginia com-
peting for a Rhodes Scholarship in
this district.

Jim will begin his work at Ox-
ford in October of 1951 in the Final
Honor School of Zoology. He is
majoring in Biology at Davidson.

Jim is a member of Phi Beta
Kappa and Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity, and he is an associate
editor of The Davidsonian.

Thirty-two Rhodes Scholarships
are assigned annually to the United
States. For the purpose of making
appointments the states are grouped
into eight districts of six states
each. North Carolina is in the third
district which includes Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, Florida, and Tennessee.

(Continued On Page Six)

Debators Spout
As Season Begins

The Davidson debating team par-
ticipated in the Dixie Tournament
held November 30 through Decem-
ber 1 at the Selwyn Hotel in Char-
lotte. Davidson sent four teams
Hubert Cannon and Carlisle Cren-
shaw composed the first team, Jack
Hunter and Pete Kalogridis the
second, Dave Moylan and John
Thompson the third, Bob Mitchell
and Ben Dryman the fourth team.
Each team sat in judgment of the
team they debated. The topic of the
debate was, “Resolved: That Non-
Communist Nations Should Form
2 New International Organization.”

Outstanding Davidson represen-
tatives were Hubert Cannon who
came in fifth and Bob Mitchell
ranking ninth.

Some of the schools taking part
were University of South Carolina,
University of the South, Wake For-
est, Roanoke, and Duke.

The schedule for the remainder
of the season is University of the
South, January 5 and 6, Agnes
Scott the first week in February,
Lenoir-Rhyne the first week in
March, William and Mary in the
early part of April, and the Grand
Nationals in Washington with
\ Mary Washington College as host.

'

OXFORD BOUND!! Jim Murray, right, who was awarded a
Rhodes Scholarship last week, is being congratulated by Dr. G. R.
Vowles, chairman of the Rhodes Scholarship Committee at Davidson.

Former AP Newsman
To Speak In January

John P. McKnight will visit his
alma mater on January 8, 1950 to
address Davidson College at 8:00
p. m. in Chamber's auditorium. Mr.
McKnight graduated in the class of
1928. He has spent most of the
last 20 years abroad as a corres.
pondent of The Associated Press.

A newspaperman “since I was
big enough to sit up to a type-
writer,” McKnight worked for the
Shelby Star, the Wilmington Dis.
patch, and The Charlotte News
before joining The Associated Press’
Charlotte bureau in August, 1929.

The Spanish he learned at David-
son, where he received a B. S. de-
gree majoring in modern languages,
guickly won him an opportunity to
go into foreign service. Revolu-.
tions impended in Cuba, and he
was transferred there in January,
1930 to help cover them. Subse-
quently he served as night cables
editor in New York, and as bureau
chief and corresponden: in Miami
Fla., Mexico City, Lisbon, Madrid,
Rio de Janeiro, Santiago (Chile)
4nd San Juan, Puerto Rico.

Given leave of absence for mili.
tary duty in 1942, he was commis-
sioned a captain for intelligence
work. He spent 33 months in the
Antilles Department, the ‘ast 15
of them as head of its Information-

(Continued On Page Six)

Last year there were over 30,-
000 deaths due to traffic accidents
of all kinds.

Christmas Vespers
Will Include Music,

Familiar Readings

On Sunday, December  seven-
teenth, the annual YMCA Christ-
mas Vespers will be held in Cham-
bers auditorium. The Davidson
Christmas Vespers have become a

| trauition on the campus, and are an

annual event for many alumni and
friends of Davidson College. This
is the eighteenth year of the Christ.
mas Vespers.

The program will feature much
of the familiar Christmas music
and Scriptures concerning the birth
of Christ. The Davidson Concert
Band and the Davidson Little Sym-
phony, under the direction of James
Christian Pfohl, the Davidson Male
Chorus and the Chapel Chorus,
under the direction of Earl F.
Berg, will be the musical organiza-
tions taking part. Organist for the
vespers will be Harold Frantz. The
offering taken Sunday night will
go to the Presbyterian orphanage,
Rarium Springs.

Carols to be used in the vespers
service include: “O Come All Ye
Faithful,” “Joy to the World,” “An-
gels from the Realms of Glory,”
“It Came Upon the Midnight
Clear,” “O Little Town of Bethle-
hem,” and “Silent Night, Holy
Night.” These will be sung by both
chorus and congregation. The Pre.
lude to be played by the‘ orchestra
is Corelli's “Christmas Concerto,”

(Continued On Page Six)

BULLETIN

After recently  conferri
with the architect, Dr. Cun-
ningham revealed on Wednes-
day that the plans for the new
Student Union are expected
to be ready by mid-January.
Construction is planned to be.
gin immediately - afterwards.
Dr. Cunningham expressed
hope that the building would
be completed and ready for use
next September.

sophs Conquer;
Caps To Stay

Freshman dreams of a red-cap
bonfire vanished Tuesday afternoon
as a star-studded sophomore aggre-
gation whitewashed their lowly ad-
versaries in all three events and
showed. the campus that the fresh-
man cap is here to stay—'till sec.
ond semester, anyhow.

Opening fast in the first half,
the frosh football team, led by
Dangerous Dan McCall, racked up
3 first downs to the soph’s 1, but
the soph’s came roaring back in the
second stanza to reverse the statis-
tics and tie the game as it ended.
They then went on to win by mov-
ing the ball further from the 50 than
the froste had been able to in 5
downs. The most beautiful play of

the game was a sleeper pass from)

Elliot to Gregg which was called
(Continued On Page Six)

ron discussions in the forum

back is a long pull, so the boys and their rider got under way early. At
that time of day, the straight roads in South Georgia were almost de-
serted. The boys were light-hearted, joking—reliving the goodtimes of
the holiday. But this happy scene was soon to give way to disaster for
in a tragic instant a tire of the sleek convertible caught in the treacherous
shoulder. Like a grotesque toy, the big Buick flipped on its back. Neil
was‘ catapulated from the car, but beneath the wreck lay an inert form.
Their rider was no respector of persons; Scott had recently chosen a
iife of full-time Christian service and was feeling on top of the world
that cool spring morning. His parents couldn't believe their ears when
the news reached them. Neither could Joe’s nor Bill’s. For once Cham.
bers Auditorium was hushed as Dr. Cunningham read “He who be-

lieveth in me shall not perish .

In addition to these actual deaths there have been a score of serious
accidents in which students have been badly injured or crippled.
No news of fatal traffic accidents involving the life or lives of Da-

vidson students has been reported

this year. It is the sincere hope of

Dean Bailey and his fellow faculty members that this slaughter will not

make inroads into the student body

for a fourth consecutive year.

At one time in the state of North Carolina motor vehicular deaths
were the greatest killers of college-age young men and women. Those
killed in this fashion reached an approximate total which was equal
to a sum higher than all those dying of other causes. This fact caused
automobile insurance rates to almost double for cars operated by young-

er drivers.

Due to the fact that this year marks the first full term free of
automobile restrictions. Davidson College's traffic accident index may
be raised. It is feared that this factor may cause a proportionate increase

in fatal accidents here.

Students,

WHITE ROBE. HALO,

WINGS, AND HARP

NUMBER ELEVEN

~AGEEDED

Faculty

Give $5,300 to Aid

Davidson Negroes

It was announced this morning in chapel that the student
body had reached and exceeded its $5,000 goal in the annual
YMCA Christmas Gift Fund Drive. The total as of this morning -

was $5,300.

Foreign Students To
Present World Views

Three Davidson students will lead
the discussion groups about which
the third YMCA forum, “Contem-
porary World Attitudes,” is. cen-
tered. Pete Kalogridis, Hartley
Hall, and Dieter Oberndorfer will
beginning Saturday, Jan. 6, and
ending Monday, Jan. 8.

Unlike the other two “Y” forums
held this year, “Christian Attitudes
Towards the Race Issue" and “Da-
vidson College’s Athletic Policy,”
this comprehensive discussion will
cover a period of a weekend instead
of just one night. The forum will
be opened Saturday afternoon with
a serics of International Relations
Club sponsored March of Time
films on several foreign countries,
giving background for the week.
end’s study.

(Continued On Page Six)

MANGLED BUDDIES ARE LAXITY'S PRICE

By SHELLEY BEARD

The road stretched out wide in

front of the headlights as telephone
poles ticked by and slipped into
blackness. The occupants of the car
either slipped down into sound
slumber or silently thought over
the basketball game that had just
ended. The driver settled back for
the long pull ahead, stifled a yawn,
and cut on the heater.
“ On a curve ten miles from school
the driver thinking of bed, started
around a truck. Another car ap-
peared over a hill and as the driver
moved to his left to make room
the front wheels slipped onto the
shoulder, hit a rut and slid into the
ditch. With a scraping grind the
front fender dug into the clay em-
bankment shooting the car up and
into a twisting roll that sheared
off a telephone pole and_ finally
slung the mass of twisted glass and
steel into the trank of a roadside
tree.

After the splintering crash there
was complete quiet for a moment
then a low moan could be heard
coming from a heap near the tele-
phone pole. The figure tried to get
up and then looked down on a leg
that was twisted at a right angle

to his body. With terrific effort he’
was able to turn toward the car.
He listened for a minute, then sum-
moning strength to overcome grow.
ing dizziness he called toward the
wreck,

“Bill, Tom,” pausing to push
back the wetness that kept cloud.
ing his eyes he called again. “BILL,
TOM—can’t you hear me; say
something!"": Oh God, what hap-
pened.” Unable to fight the pull of
unconsciousness any longer, he sank
back to the ground.

When consciousness returned the
lights of a passing car illuminated
the scene and showed the hopeless-
ness of lying where he was. Using
his good leg he crawled and lunged
toward the road leaving a small
trough of bloody dirt behind him.
Every inch caused almost overpow-
ering pain in his leg. Occassionally
he had to stop to get his breath
and gather his strength to continue.

When the ambulance arrived
there was little to be done. The
man who had been sitting in the
middle of the front seat had been
thrown into the knobs and grill
of the dashboard. His face was a
mass of ground flesh and cartilage.
A sliver of glass had entered just

over. the eyes and cut back into}is calling.”

the scalp until it became wedged
into the .skull. Both hands were
lying forward in the dead man’s
lap. The palms were turned up on
the back of the wrists where they
pushed when the man tried to stop
himself as the car struck.

The driver was in the same place
that he had been when the car left
the road, but the impact of the
telephone pole drove the steering
column forward into his chest and
stomach, virtually pinning him to
the seat. The ¢xpression of pain
and fear indelibly stamped on his
features and the grasp of his hands
on the column gave grim mute
testimony to the agony in which
this person had died.

About two hours later a tele.
phone rang in a small suburban
bungalow. Mr. Jones came. fully
awake at the third ring and with
a surge of alarm he ran barefooted
into the hall. As he picked up the
phone he saw the query in the
eyes of his wife who had followed
him into the hall.

“Hello.”

“Is this Mr. T. W. Jones?”, in.
quired a feminine voice. “Davidson

trying to hide the fear in his eyes
from his wife who stood over him.

“Mr. Jones this is the Dean of
Students. How soon can you come
up here?”

“Why? Has something happened
to Tom?”

“There has been an accident.
Your son was in the car, and it is
with great regret that I inform you
he died on the way to the hospital.
Try to get someone...”

The telephone slid silently into its
cradle as the pale huddled man
sank slowly into a chair and placed
his head between his hands.

“Oh, no,” he whispered.

His wife placed her hand on his
shoulder momentarily and then, as
suddenly realizing the finality of
what had happened, turned toward
the bed where she drowned her
tears in the pillow.

The man sat stunned, dead to
anything but his grief. After a long
interval he got up and went into
the next room. He picked up his
Bible and began to read from the
23rd Psalm.

“The Lord is my shepherd...”

“This is Mr. Jones,” he ese

Still more money is expected to be
received, according to John Lyles,
YMCA secretary, who said that ap-
proximately 100 students and sever- _
al faculty) members have not yet
turned in their pledge cards.

This year the Fund is to be used
in the Davidson community to help
Negro families build new homes.
The money will be held in escrow
for. bank loans to Negro residents
who, wanting to build, can present
a 10 percent’ down-payment on a
$3,000 home, and who have a re-
spectable credit -standing. When it
becomes obvious that the need for
such housing loans will not again
exist, the money is to be returned .
to the YMCA Cabinet then in office
to be used at its discretion in fur.
thering “Negro activity in David-
son.”

Interest in the local housing situa-
ation was aroused last spring when
a house burned in Brady’s Alley,
only 50 yards from the Davidson
Presbyterian Church. Led by Dr.
Carl Pritchett, pastor of the church,
this interest was organized into
action. , The result being the unique
housing plan for which the Gift
Fund will provide financial’ support.

Emily Post Seen
At Sig Up Meet

Sigma Upsilon, national honorary
fraternity recognizing literary ta.
lent, met on December 7 in the
Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house.

Vice-President, Irving Stubbs,
called the meeting to order in ab.
sence of the president. The first
article read was a poem by John
Hobart entitled “Ode to a Ma-
chine.” Next Professor Lilly gave
an essay on Emily Post in the
middle ages and the development
of manners in the medieval period.
This was a humorous article which
displayed an enormous amount of
research.

Bill Cumming read a poem “Aug.
ust Dream” which described the
looser: sections of New Orleans.
Professor Cumming gave a dra.
matic monologue dealing with a
German aristocrat’s disillusionment
and ruin. Mac Bulgin read a love
lyric poem imitative of the Cavalier
traditions.

Following a discussion the meet-

ing adjourned.
