<mz | QObe Dabidsonian | 2-=~.

ALENDA LUK UBS OCRTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME XXXIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 13, 1950 ~—___—UMBER THREE
en

Ballard Ciairman (yma ReCOrd Homecoming Forecast; _
~ fore ste t t Alumni Meetin g Is Planned

The American Red Cross
will conduct a blood drive in

very high order and splendidly

the Davidaon community Thurs- Bull etin ' Re Ceaninchane On pe resigent Jone a Py
dey. October 26, between. the recurnting Gordon ray ab Pron McConnell and Dickson To Take

. s
ERY
Be |
. rR e

. . e a
; | Posts As New Alumni Officers
Homecoming this year will feature perhaps the most in-
y =| —, teresting and widely appealing programs in recent years. The

Alumni Office believes it to be a praiseworthy job of planning.
oe

. : : , dispatch to the Davidsonian | North Carolina.
This drive will be be part of » that there will not be a speci- Dr. Cunningham was among the
national effort to raise blood for! fic theme for fraternity decora- |two-hundred sixty-four delegates
emergencies. Over half of the] tions this homecoming. The de- | attending the ceremonies from uni-
total is planned for use by the cision of decorations will be | versities and colleges both here
Korean forces. left to the individual fraterni- {and abroad. Almost one hundred
Dr. Cunningham has asked Col- ties, but they are reminded of | learned societies and national edu-
onel Ballard to act as chairman of several themes that could be cational and professional organiza-
the drive. Colonel Ballard has an used. Mr. Payne mentioned [tions were represented.
nounced plans to appeal to the col.| 'W° facts which should be ta- At 11:00 a. m., Sunday, October
lege student body as well as to all ken into account—this is mid- [the eighth, the Inaugural Sermon
local civic groups. The local chap- century homecoming and Da- | was delivered at the Woman's Col-
ter of Omicron Delta Kappa has vidson plays W. & L. in foot- | lege in Greensboro. William B
undertaken to sponsor the solicita- all. ‘ Umstead, former United State:
tion from the student body. Bill Klein also announced Senator, presided. De. Cunningham
Appointments for specific hours] . that the idea of a circus will be | offered the morning prayer and th:
will have to be made in advance by| "sed this year by the Pan. | sermon, “Light Incarnate and In-
prospective donors. This is for the Hel for the decoration of the | visible,” was preached by Harold
reason that a certain amount of ae for dances. The galety of jw. Tribble. An inaugural dinner
. : ,| colors piayed and a | attended by cight hundred people
time is required for each bleeding large cage-like platform will [| was followed from 8:30 to 10:30

and it is important that donor's
time not be wasted by having the be used as the band stand. p. m. by a reception honoring Prese-
dent and Mrs. Gray.

donor wait unnecessarily. Appoint- .
The Inaugural Convocations were

ments for students can be made at] (ty/ ' e
the office in the ROTC building. Y Cabinet Analyzes held on Monday, October the ninth.

The Red Cross is not permitted . at the University in Chapel Hill.
to draw blood from any individual Purposes At Retreat

The morning session was presided
under 2] years of age without the

over by Chancellor Robert B.
prior written consent of the stu- H ld In M ®
dents’ parents. e ountains

House of the University of North ‘ ‘ ;
Carolina, and the afternoon meet- record room in Phi Hall available
Students are requested to secure . .
release forms for parents’ signa- The Y.-M. C. A. cabinet held its

ing was under the guidance of carl all students and members of the
W. Harrelson, Chancellor of North college community for listening to
tures from Colonel Ballard, and to] 2Mual retreat last weekend, Oc-
make appointments with him as tober 6-8, at Montreat, leaving here

hours of 11 a. m. and 5 p. m. Mr. Payne announced in a | dent of the Greater University of fy

| Kick-off event for the festivities will be a concert by Charlie
[Spivak on Friday afternoon, Oetober 20, from 4-5 :30 p. m.
Charlie is slated to play for a for-
mal dance that night in the Johns.

|
Debating Team See ton gym lasting from nine til one.

. Saturday's program commences
Bright Year Ahead with a pep meeting in front of
Chambers at 11:00 a. m. The start-

re
* . ; er's gun for a varsity cross country
P - ~-—— _ ‘We are hoping for a brisk sea-| meet with the rival W. and L. har-
_— son of first-class debating,” stated | ciers will fire at 11 also. Immediate-
Professor Tyson, instructor infty afterward the baby Cats will run
speech, when, asked his prediction! | ees.McRac over the two-mile
for the 1950-1951 Debating Team.| course. Chambers Auditorium wilt

Rryan Robinson, President of the be thé scene of a student concert by
Forensic Council, and John Hunter.| ihe band and male chorus High

manager of the Debating Team also spot of the morning will be an
enthusiastically look forward to 4] alumni meeting at 11:45 in Cham-
successful year of debating for Da-| hers Auditorium, Last year’s Presi-
vidson’s team. dent John I. Smith will conduct the

Eighty contests are scheduled} meeting which will include reports
with about fifty different colleges.|on the Wildcat Club and W & I.
them ready for public performance] among which are Yale; Harvard. game by Crowell Little, a report by
at the V. M. I. football game in| Princeton, and Annapolis, thus, the| Dr. Cunningham, and the installa-
Charlotte on, November 4. eam will have a busy season. De-| tion of alummi officers for 'S0-°51.

ee

J. WALTER DICKSON, JR. JOSEPH H. McCONNELL

New Schedule Set Up
For Record Library

Scabbard and Blade
To Shine In Public

Scabbard and Blade, honorary
military fraternity, anounced this
week plans for forming two crack
drill platoons. It is hoped to have

The Department of Music has
announced plans for making the

The drill platoons will be similar| bates with Elon and the University] These newly elected leaders are
to those from V. M. I. and Citadel! of North Carolina are being ar- Joe H. McConnell, president, and
which give exhibitions as part of] ranged. Such a variety of schools James W. Dickson, vice president.
the half-time show at football] with which to debate should make} Mr. McConnell was recently named
games at the two scliools. for an interesting year. president of the National Broad-

Other plans which Scabbard and} Besides contesting at individual| casting Company in New York.
Blade announced were an off-cam- schools the Davidson College De-| Rev. Dickson is pastor of the First
pus dance to be held sometime iM [hating Team will enter the Grand| Presbyterian Church in Belmont,
November and also the holding ot] National Tournament at Mary|N. C. A Barbecue lunch will be
a Tap Day in November. Plans for Washington College, Fredricks-| served in South Court at 1:00 p. m.
these two events are still in the! burg Virginia. This tournament| First event of the afternoon will be
making by S. & B. members. will be held in March and is one|a grid battle in Richardson Stadium

As released by ; Scabbard and of the highlights of the season. The} pitting the ‘Cats vs. Washington
Blade Captain (President) Jay! team also has an invitation to par-|and Lee University of Lexington,
Roberts one of the proposed drill ticipate in the Dixie Tournament,| Virginia. Action starts at 2:30.
platoons will be composed of S &) 14 be held in Charlotte on Novem-| Capt. Jim Harper and the Lenoit
R nrember's and the other made uP] yer 30, Although this is a pre-season] High School Band will play for
of third and fourth year ROTC) iournament it should prove profit-{W. & L. during the football game.
students. able to those teams entering. Many of the social fraternities arc

Carolina State College. records.
soon as possible. Friday afternoon and returning to

On Tuesday, October tenth, the] A ‘egular schedule of hours has
Inauguration Ceremony was held been arranged during which <aculty,
No blood may be drawn from an| the campus Sunday afternoon.
individual who is more than 6} The first meeting was held Fri-

in Reynolds Coliseum in Raleigh. students, and others in the college
Dr. Cunningham commented, “The family are invited to listen to the

months less than 18 years of age] 42y evening, during which time

at the time. discussion was devoted primarily

presiding at the inauguration Tues- large assortment of recordings in
Further information will be pub- to the purpose of the Y. M. C. A.,

day morning by Mr. William Car-| the college record library. .
michael, Jr, Comptroller of the Scheduled periods each week will
lished in next week's “Davidson- with special emphasis on Christian
Peer) aith and an integrated program

University, and a close friend of be devoted to three types of listen-

jan Gordon Gray, was exceedingly ing. The majority of the hours will

° as the outgrowth of this faith. This| skillful and refreshing.” be for general listening and records
discussion was held first in the
three Commission groups (Christian

Concerning the address made b played at these times will be chosen
F m Pp f ss ‘ President Gray ‘on Tuesday De. to suit the tastes of those present.
ormer Frotessor $ Faith and Heritage, Tommy Lang-
: . 2 2
Books In Library ford, chairman; Community Proj-

Cunningham stated, “His inaugural A second type of listening period
ects, Irving Stubbs, chairman;. and

address was characterized by a‘clear will be devoted to regularly sche-
understanding of many of the great duled programs of music in three
The library has recently received | Student Relations, Randy Taylor,{ issues which confront our world] neon Choral and Vocal, Or-
books by former faculty members./ chairman) and later in a com-| today and by a sane, practical point chestral, and ( hamber Music. The
Dr. Rene de Visme Williamson's! bined group, the latter bringing| of view in facing his duties as the| MU" OF ! hese programs wil be
new book ‘‘Culture and Policy, The| together the pertinent ideas pre-} President of the Consolidated Uni- announced in advance and program
United States and the Hispanic] sented in the commission meetings.| versity of North Carolina.” notes on the music to he played will
World” was written to give the! Saturday morning, discussion was be available for those interested.
eSerage citizen a background of directed toward analvzation of the The third group of listening pp-
Spanish history and its effect on] commission and individual cabinet riods will be designated for Ahe
Spanish civilization today. Dr. Wil-| post duties and functions. Project- playing of records for studentsSNfa
liamson is now Professor of Po- ing from these discussions were ing specific music courses,
litical Science at the University of | the detailed plans for the coming The tentative schedule of pro-
Tennessee. months, with special emphasis, of grams and listening hours will he
“From This Day Forward” by| course, upon current and immediate posted on the bulletin board in Phi
Rey. Kenneth J. Foreman of Union projects. Hall, as well as on bulletin boards
Theological Seminary is a readable! A combined meeting was again in Chambers ‘Building and Shearer
interpretation for youth of the mar-| held Saturday afternoon. At. this Hall.
riage vows. time the final commission reports It is hoped that a large number
De, Samuel B.’ Knight, Professor) were presented and thoroughly of students and others who are in-
of Chemistry of the University of} discussed. Following these reports, terested will take advantage of
North Carolina, has just completed | much discussion was spent in con- this opportunity to enjoy music
a book “Physical Chemistry. for| sideration of two vital problems: through records. The Music De.
Premedical Students.” one, the election system, as regards partment will welcome suggestions
— the Y.M.C.A. offices, and the other. and requests for recordings to be
the social organization of the cam-

. played in connection with this lis-
Trustees Author 1Z@ =| pus particularly from the perspec-

tening schedule and a suggestion
tive of the non-fraternity man. A

e e box will he maintained in Phi Hall
Athletic Council commission was appointed to ana-

for this purpose. There will be a
: i student in charge of the Record
nt body is lyze the election system problem, s cor
pretty mech the wien abou ie [and it was decided that a commis. room during all times when it is
the abletic policy of Davidson has sion should soon be appointed to open.
been consolidated ip an Athletic work in conjunction with the Pan- The tentative schedule follows:
Council, which was appointed by Hellenic Council in analyzing the

General {.istening Hours: Monday,
the Trustees social organization problem. 7 :30.10:30 p. m.; Wednesday, 7:30-
; A weiner roast was given for the

. 10:00 p. m.; Saturday, 7:00-10.00

This council superce des an ie cabinet at Montreat College Sat- p. m. Scheduled programs: Orches-
wieldy, often ineffective ter Oo’ [urday night. tral Music, Sunday, 3:00-5:00 p. m.;
three committees — the r. ne The business session having been Choral and Vocal Music, Tuesday,
Council of Trustees, the Facu 'Y/ concluded, worship took the re- 4:00-6:00 p. m.; Chamber Music.
Aibletic coe letie and the Alen mainder of the time on the agenda: Friday, 7:30-10:36 p. m.

\visory by
amalgamates the three committees | . ; .
into one. (The Faculty Committee, h KF V
however, still handles the policies ay 1g. a avi on Call es ane
of physical education and student .
health). Under the new setup, the Of E t rt t . Gals Oh Y Dr
council is the controlling board of n e alnmen ° P ome ’ ou @amer
athletic policy, and what it says—-
goes, as far as collegiate affairs,

Seabbard and Rlada members
will make up a = {5-man_ platoon
carrying 1893 model rifles, while a
S0-man platoon of ROTC students
will carry M-1 rifles, Members of
neither of the drilt platoons have
been designated yet. ,

The question for National De-| planning banquets and parties. Alt
bate this year is “Resolved—Thatj in all this Homecoming weekena
Non-Communist Nations Should] promises to be first-rate.

Form a New International Organi- :
zation.” This question should pro-

dace many interesting debates. C t Installs N
Since, there are only eight éx- our 4 ew

perienced men returning from last

year’s team several vacancies exist. |- Tos eat arc

This year there are no seniors on

the team that have debated before.| Judge Hoopy Davis and the mem-
The varsity team will consist of} bers of the Court of Control, wear-

6
Alpha Epsilon Delta
Announces Programs twelve members who will make the| ing their traditional black robes,
trips to various schools. met before the student body Tues-

Alpha Epsiton Delta, the national ‘
Everyone who is interested in| 44y at ‘chapel. The procedire of

Beta Theta Pi Host
To Phi Delta Theta

In an effort to re-establish a pre-
cedent of Sunday night get-togeth-
ors between fraternities, Beta Theta
Pi played host to the Phi Delts
after Vespers last week. The Retas,
originators of the idea several year:
ago, believe that this is the first of
many such inter-fraternity feeds
this year, and hold that these func-
tions are of great value in cement-
ing inter-fraternity friendship.
Dick Barnwell, president of Reta,
welcomed the visiting Phi Deles
and invited them to make full nse
of the television set and ping pong
table. After an hour of fun and re-
laxation refreshments were served,
and the feed ended with the singing
of the Alma Mater.

pre-medical society, is bringing to ; his Tuesd ;
the Davidson campus this year a| debating should watch for dates of | ts dof ay chape "T ner con-
great new program, of interest not| tryouts. No experience is necessary ect ° jeering ane ooing the
only to its members, but also to/and as many as possible are urged reshmen as they stood in their
those who would simply like to[to try out for the t.am. al heen cheged me enses
know Wenhe about the general field fear and embarrasment of the Fresh-
of medicine. The primary purpose men, ‘The meeting with the student
>: . . . : ° ° -
of AED is to serve the pre-medical Famous Duo-Pianists body was for once serious.. Could
FETE ae ae ee ore. . . + lit be that the Court of Control did
year the society is opening HS pro- Begin Music Series mean something or did have a pur-
grams to the entire student body. ose after all?
It plans to bring to the campus a ' A th Frechmen offenders were
series of programs that will be both called the heft hein seats, walked
interesting and stimulating. One o! to the front before the-court, Kstened
the fiost attractive features will be 16 their offenses, and walked up the
a series of motion picture films on “I el . Sot th Pit °
such subjects as .brain surgery, op- ong 5! nn 1s ald « ot the audito
erating techniques, and hospital Th ane by she st the c had
procedure. Many of these films e asic idea pe our na
were produced for exclusive release | duo-pianists, Luboshutz and Ne. Pech made bee ( agi nt 4 ts
to doctors, hospitals, and medical] menoff. colle life. (2) to give : he ae .
schools, but, through a special] The second concert presents the classmen ‘a opportunity te id
agreement, the films have been! Robert Shaw Chorale and will be themselves of their oft. outspoken
made available to AED. given January 3rd. On February] tendencies toward the freshmen
Beside the films, AED has! 20th a very fine concert is offered.| ¢o¢ their cockiness.
planned such programs as speeches | Joan Hammond will play with the} yet it be known that the Court
and slide lectures by outstanding] Charlotte Symphony Orchestra is not out to get Freshmen, but all
physicians, discussions on surgical| which is directed by James Chris-| freshmen will be treated as mature
and medical procedures, and pre-| tian Phofl, director of music here at] individuals until they are proven
sentations of various medical topics | Davidson. This attraction should | jierwise. Charge slips signed by
of pertinent interest. Of special in- prompt everyone to attend. upper-classmen are used to report
terest to the society is the subject] The final concert will be given| offenses so that the charges are in
of cancer, and several of the PTO-l by the Cincinnati Symphony Or-| all seriousness.
grams will deal exclusively with! chestra under the direction of Thor} The Court still meets behind
this disease. Many of the meetings Johnson, March 17th. All these fine] closed doors and does the basic
will be of extreme interest to the performances will be held in the} good with man to man talks with
psychology students — programs! school auditorium. The cost of a] the individual Freshman. Nothing
dealing with brain surgery and ab-| .o,:on ticket for students is includ-| js accomplished by brow-beating.
normal psychiatry. The society} og in the student activity fee. Tick-
plans to bring one program to the| a1, wit) be available in the Music] Datvidson College lost 83 men
campus every week throughout the] Office within the next two weeks.| in the Civil War, 21 in World War
year. I and 155 in World War II. The
It is stressed that anyone in the percentage. of alumni was highest
student body is welcome at these for the Civil War.
programs, whether pre-medical or
not, and some of them should give
business or other pre-professional
students a better insight into the
/ (Continued on Page Six)

This season four concerts will
be given in the Chambers Audito-
rium. For anyone who appreciates
finé music these concerts present
fine opportunities to further that
appreciation. The first concert’ is
to be held November 3rd. It will
feature the  nationally-renoWwned

easly Sunday morning an inspira-
tional devotional was conducted on
Mount Lookout; John Lyles, Gen.
eral secretary of the “‘Y”, preached
mainer of the time on the agenda:
the morning sermon; and before
leaving after lunch, communion was
(Continued on Page Six)

a SSS SSS =e SPSS erp hs sh
=e

SS ES eS Saar SSP SS SSS

Here it is Saturday night again | idiots! The TV set in your frater-{ crook trying to lift some sheep's
sybsidization, and coaching per-| and you, Harry Hardup, are faced | fiity house is good for an hour with| mail. Finally the door creaks open
sonnel are concirned. It does not! with the prospect of spending it at} Kookla, Fran and Ollie. You de-] and anxious fingers probe through
have control over admission of stu-| alma mater. After winning a mental | cide the time would have been bet-| dust for the precious parchment.
dents, scholarship requirements, or/ fight with your stomach against] ter spent reading parallel. Wait—| Hope sinks when you see “Box
schedules, but even at that its! that sack supper, you chase over] you forgot to check the P. O. be-| holder, Local.” It reads “gives new
powers are broad. If, for example,| to the Stud for their Saturday spec-| fore (ugh) supper. On the way,| strength to men, women, and chil-
the football team is not doing well,| ial—those same sandwiches—but | you stop to muse at the Cathedral dren,” Leaving the P. O. you envy
this council will find out why and| toasted. Choking back a curse to| and wonder what it’s going to be| the mental peace of the insane.
work to improve the situation. a car full of gay lads speeding away | like when its finished. At the mo-] Just how lively can a place get?

The athletic council is composed|1o wine, women, and more wine.| ment it reminds you of war pic-| You could go to the “Y", but when
of three trustees: PD. R. Lafar| you stop off in Georgia to see if{|tures showing bombed-out build-| you see the pool table line extend-
(chairman), Rev. Sam Hovis, and] anyone want: to hit the flick. There | ings. Upon arrival at the lone out-| ing out to Shearer Hall, it’s no soap.
Dr. Oren Moore; two alumni, Ed| doesn’t even seem to be anybody] post of your favorite uncle, you/ Back in your room, you wonder
M. Armfield and McAllister Carson,| in Georgia. Ah sweet inspiration | wonder how any box could stay|why you ever came here to spend
Jr., two faculty members: Frontis| you can go to the gym, and work| empty that long. A second glance the best years of your life when the
Johnson and George Abernethy; | out, Winged feet come to a sliding | shows unbelieving eyes that some-| adio's making soft and. sweet mu.

and one senior from the student : . . ts sic and that gals “pic’ is staring at
body, who, although he should have halt before a prim little notice—| thing is in there after all! Having you, You've had it. You're frustrat-

been elected at the opening of] “&ym will not be open Saturday | forgotten the combination since] ed—beaten. Might as well hit the,
school, has not yet been chosen. night.” Bureaucratic, inefficient] your last letter, you look like al sack, Jack, you ain’t at Carolina!

ee

The first college colors at David-
son were pink and blue. In Decem-
ber 1895 (about the time intercol-| Phe first Davidson yell on rec-
legiate athletics began here) the] 46g was: Raht Rah! Rah!, Runt
student body voted to change the! Run! Run; Pink and Blue, David-
colors to crimson and black. son!

eee
