PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR.

EDITOR IN CHIEF .........-------------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER .....-. .------------ JOHN LOFTIN

EDITORIAL ‘STAFF

Associate Editors ---.. .--. Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor .....--------- --.-------, poccence Shelley Beard
Managing Editors .... ---.. Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George

McMurray, Ed Richardson

Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Dick Roper

City Editor—Nat Danicl

Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White

BUSINESS STAFF

Assitant Business Manager --..------ Wenwccnecceneeee Alex Goley
Advertising Manager ----..---------------- Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager ~---..------.---- --.-.-------- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager --...-...-.-----~------------- Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager --.-....----.--~.---~-----+------ Bill Hart
Faculty Advisor ....-..---.-------~--..------ Prof. Henry T. Lilly

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Davidson, North Carolina

as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C.,
under the Act of March 3, 1897. .

“The Students’ Choice”

Congratulations are in order to Woody Leach of the
Senior Class who was elected several days ago to repre-
sent the Student Body on the newly created Athletic
Council.

In assuming membership on this committee Woody
takes on a job, the magnitude and responsibility of which
have evidently not sufk very deeply into the majority of
the students’ minds. This is not just another committee,
but it is a group of men representing the Trustees, Faculty,
Alumni, and Students who have the awesome job of try-
ing to decide just what course Davidson College will fol-
low ‘with regard to athletics.

This committee will begin to function amid a period
—probably unsurpassed in the history of the college—of
much discussion and not a few apprehensions concerning
the question which is foremost in the mind of every true
Davidson man—‘‘ Will Davidson go all out for subsidized
football, return football here to a strictly ‘amateur’ status,
or attempt to continue its struggle along the middle of
the road?”

No one can, at this stage of the game. hazard a guess
as to the final policy which will be adopted. It will be no
easy job to gain a meeting of the minds of men whose ideas
may range from ‘‘entering bigtime football swith all its
accompanying subsidies, etc.,”” to ‘‘dropping out of the
Southern Conference and returning the game to the players
and the spectators.”

Woody Leach will represent the student viewpoint on
this vital issue, which may not even be his own personal
feeling az to the correct policy for Davidson to follow.
For that reason, it is absolutely imperative that every
Davidson man take time out to seriously consider this
matter.

‘If there ever was a time in Davidson’s long and staid

past when the students have needed to shed the long robes
of complacency and apathy that seem to surround many
of them, it is now. Davidson has reached the crossroads

and it’s going to take some downright deep thinking on
somebody’s part to determine whether she will turn down
Subsidy Boulevard or go in the other direction down
Deemphasis Lane.

Unsigned Letters

One thing which the Davidsonian failed to mention in
the early issues of this year regarding our policy was this
thing of unsigned Letters to the Editor, and the only reason
that matter is mentioned now is because for the first time
this year it has raised its ugly head as is the case every
year.

We believe that letters published in an open forum
in a newspaper constitute one of the most vital services
@ paper can render to its readers. Indeed, ‘we have time
and again asked for student body reaction through letters
on matters that come up from time to time. The response
has been almost negligible, but nonetheless the opportunity
is still available. But there are certain rules with regard
to publishing letters which every newspaper worthy of the
name must enforce. The most important of which is not
printing unsigned letters.

Recently, a letter was delivered to us in which the
writer expressed certain views regarding the football
team. It was an average letter, fairly well written and we
agreed with parts of what was ‘written. Nevertheless the
letter was of such a type that the Editor cannot accept
responsibility for printing it unsigned. The Editor of any
newspaper is responsible for any unsigned material which
may appear in a paper, and that is one responsibility which
we will not shoulder, particularly when the letter expresses
radical or highly contradictory views.

Again the Davidsonian asks for your participation in
its open forum. but anyone desifing to write a letter and
then having so little faith in what he has said that he
won't sign it, is asked to save his and our time by re-
fraining from writing. If the writer signs his name and
then requests that it be withheld from publication that is
cae matter. Buch s request will be honored st any

Ro:

THE DAVIDSONIAN

— Famous Last Worps —

Fn
JC mon, cowann; sical ue: W.C. ciris
“ ARE an GeauTifu) /”

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) Mrs. Anna M. Rosenburg has succeeded Paul Griffith as Assistant

Secretary of Defense.

2) West Germany and Spain were elected to full membership in
the U. N. Food and Agriculture Organization.

3) The 1949 Nobel Prize for literature went to an American novelist,
William Faulkner, the 1950 award to British philosopher Bertrand
Russell, and the chemistry prizes to Germans Otto Diels and

Kurt Alder.

4) Yugoslavian and Albanian relations were further strained as the
Albanian mission was expelled in Belgrade.

5) Britain has refused the Soviet proposal for four power talks on
Germany, but France seems more agreeable, though not entirely.

6) Enrolment in U. S. engineering schools has reached a new low.

7) In Tibet Chinese forces are continuing their march on Lhasa.

8) The acting president of Venezuela has been assassinated. In
1948 he led a successful revolt against the Gallegos Government.

FROM...

The Editor’s Mailbox

To The Editor:

Archibald Hamenhash
The Davidsonian

Dear Arch:

Your recent take-off on the VMI
game was probably extremely
amusing to many of your cohorts
but surprisingly enough, we fail to
see the humor. If it was written
simply for a space filler, as it would
appear, then we're willing to for-
get it. But if that was your person.
al opinion, then we're going to take
issue with you.

It has been our privilege, or as
you might say, our fate, to play
with the bunch of boys who make
up Davidson's football team. To
the best of our knowledge, there
isn’t an All-American among them
and none profess to be; however, a
better bunch of boys cannot be
found.

We know that we didn't live up
to the standards of the Davidson
Spirit against. V. M. 1., and that
we didn’t give our very best. That
is why in our meeting with the
coaches the Monday following the
game we. decided to really work
hard for N. C. State and to redeem
ourselves in the eyes of our friends.

We will be the first to admit

that the Wildcats looked lousy
against V. M. I. Sometimes you
have it and sometimes you don’t.
Football has its ups and downs like
anything else. But then you might
say it’s about time we were having
one of our “ups.” Well, are we
being too boastful in saying that
the Davidson team has played good
games this year?

Maybe we do lack school spirit
or any semblance of fight. Mayhe
none of the boys “love” the game
anymore as we have heard it so
often expressed. But do you think
a guy would go out and try to
play a game when he was so banged
up that he could hardly walk if
there wasn't inside him
there wasn’t something inside him
which drove him to do it? More
than a few of the 'Cats have done
that very thing this year and on
several different occasions. Could
there be any school spirit in that?

We have been at fault and we

admit it, but knowing that there are -

students who feel as your column
would seem to indicate certainly
doesn’t exactly get us all fired-

up to do a better job.

Sincerely,
Auburn Lambeth
Woody Leach

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS
1. What kind of a college magazine do you want?

a) One that continues to print both serious and humorous

writing—41 per cent.

b) A straight humor magazine only—25 per cent.

ec) A humor magazine with a literary review published
separately—34 per cent. .

2. If a literary review were published:
a) Would you read it? Yes—59 pct.; No—41 pet.

b) Do you think that the college should finance it?
Yes—64 pet.; No—36 pet.

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
1. To abolish the double-cut system.

2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors

regardless of their age.

4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and

the college at large.

§. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speak.

ers.

7. To give praise where praise is due.

8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.

To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student

The Pot Boils

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1950

By HENRY HANSEN

The typical Davidson student is usually
publicly praised as a paragon of. all the virtues:
privately he comes off a little worse, sometimes
to the extent of being damned as a witless idiot.
The truth, on an individual level, probably lies
somewhere in between. This is not always the
ease. At athletic events he is prone to act the
polished role of a Chesterfield as regards his
manner. There are other times when he is en-
durable or even pleasant in the aggregate even,
occasionally, in chapel.

To dispense with introductory remarks, of
late he has nowhere been more the ‘witless idiot
than at the local movie. Granted that, in a selec-
tion of pictures very much above what has
formerly been the level of excellence, there oc-
casionally appears a stinker, still we may
reasonably assume that having paid our money
we wish to see the picture and hear it as well—
not the loud brayings of Davidsonians en masse.
This is evidently not the motivating idea behind
the behavior of most of the students who attend.
Almost anything is sufficient to set up a clamor
which not only effectively prevents the hearing
of the sound track, but also is quite apt to cause
serious lacerations of the ear drum. The usual
impetus is some joke or the appearance of a
female of pleasing or even startling propor-
tions. Now jokes and females of any proportions

pleasing are fine. They are ‘‘good things” in
the system. Past experience should have taught
us, however, that clever remarks are usually
answered and pleasing females may speak and
say something which is, if possible, even more

ments. This unbelievable state of affairs is par-
ticularly apt to exjst in the better type of pic-
ture. One can only say to this amazing idea
what one says to the comment ‘‘good show,’’
by out-going movie viewers, ‘‘How swould you
know?’ For that matter, how do I know? Answer
—there -are other theatres where people both
Jook and listen and it is wonderful what sound
does for Hollywood's present product. Most of
the major companies seem quite wedded to the
idea of sound movies. It’s just too bad
that we can’t enjoy the benefits which, they
tell us, accrue to pictures in which you can
hear what the characters say.

To dispense with hyperbole, why can’t we
view movies ;with a reasonable amount of vocal
approval, disapproval, or whatever comment it
ia deemed necessary to make. This is not to ad-
vocate stoney silence. But we'd like to hear a
few punch lines; we'd like to enjoy pulchritude
in something approaching silent bliss; we'd like,
in short, to hear as well as see the movie.

If it be said that I am trying to crush a
glorions manifestation of glorious Davidson
spirit, if this be said, then I answer thus: to
sit in a dark cave and make strange noises on
slight or no provocation to the detriment of the
alleged reason for gathering there in the first
place is hardly school spirit. Not one of those
who contribute to such would be guilty of it
individually. The condition would be accurately
described as a situation in which most of us
would seem to enjoy beng idiots together when
we wouldn’t think of being idiots apart. To
reiterate and conclude, we'd like to hear as well

interesting than their purdly physical accoutre-

as see the movie.

Gags geom College Kags

A five-year-old boy who wit-
nessed his first football game that
afternoon was overheard praying
this prayer. that night:

“God bless ma.
God bless pa.
God bless me.
Rah! Rah! Rah!”

Standing joke: A professor who
refuses to sit.
Kentucky Kernal

Prof: What do you find the

hardest thing to deal with?
Student: An old pack of cards.
The Heights

“Oh, darling, I’ve missed you.”
And she raised the revolver and
tried again.

Fool: He who parks on the cam.
pus without a parking permit.

Idiot: He who refuses to pay
his parking fine the first week.

Damn fool: He who thinks he
can get a parking permit. °

Preacher: “Henry, your main
enemy is Drink.”

Henry: “Yeah, and yer the old
guy what told me to love my ene.
mies.”

Nurse—Doctor, every time I
bend over to listen to his heart,

_his pulse increases. What should

1. do?
Doctor—Button your blouse.
Vanderbilt Hustler

The scene is a chemistry class.
The dumbest student is being
quizzed.

“What is the formula for wa-
ter?”

“H, I, J, K, L, M, N, 0”

“Whoinell ever told you that?”
shouted the exasperated profes.
sor.

.“You did sir, You told me it
was H to O.” University Signal.

Angry parent, striding into dimly
lighted room: Young man, I'll
teach you to make love to my
daughter.

Darling Dan: Wish you would;
I'm not making much headway.

Kentucky Kernal

EDDIE ALLEN’S SPORTS ASIDE

Editor's Note: Due to sever.
al requests, we are printing a
duplicate of Eddie Allen’s
sports column in the Char-
lotte Observer last week. It
deals with a little denomina.
tional college which has sth.
letic policy troubles.

The Little College That Was
Left Behind

Bedtime story for today:. Once
there was a little denominational
college. It was a fine college, known
and respected for its high academic
and moral standards. It was the
kind of college you might well
choose for your son, being virtually
sure that he would leave it a clear.
eyed young man with a true sense
of values.

Now the standards of this college
remained high because its adminis.
tration conscientiously kept them
that way. There was no deviation
in the course that they believed
right, no eye.winkings at what the
less firm of purpose might consider
only ethical white lies.

The prime purpose of this insti-
tution, uniquely enough, was the
mental and spiritual development
of those enrolled there. It is odd,
but true, that although a student
might be able to kick a football
60 yards or pull out of the line to
lead interference with outstanding
dispatch, he was still primarily a
student.

Yes, this college encouraged ath.
letics. In fact it owned a fine tra-
dition in intercollegiate sport. Never
a real power, of course, but pro-
ducing what its alumni could
proudly call “grand little teams.”

When college football teams were
composed of men who had enrolled
of their own volition, this little
school played, and sometimes even
defeated, the best of them. Not
having aa large a student body as
most, they usually were at some
disadvantage. But generally their

opponents, while bigger, also ad.
herred to so-called pure athletic
policies, and our little college often
made up for lack of size with extra
effort and spirit.

The Purity Code Where It Was
Not Needed

This was before the bubble of in.
tercollegiate football began to in.
flate to barrage balloon proportions.
While checking the gate receipts
one afternoon, some school’s gra-
duate manager was stricken by the
cash possibilities of what until then
had been sport—for sport’s sake.
He reasoned that with better teams
would come better financial re.
turns and,. ostensibly higher pres.
tige for the school with the better
team.

You might say the idea was pop.
ular. Soon throughout the land
money began to pour into the tills
and even huskier young men into
the enrollment offices of the pros-
perous schools. Meanwhile, our lit.
tle college among the oaks sat back,
philosophically wondered what all
the shooting was about and steadily
continued to steer its own quiet,
sane course.

By the year, the conference of
which our school was a member
became stronger, the weaker teams
correspondingly weaker. Gradually
a few little Goliaths were dropped
from the schedule of our Little
David, but soon even those who
weren't Goliaths at all became too
powerful, too. The shopworn phrase
“moral victory” became even more
frayed from excessive wear.

About this time the national col.
legiate fathers became alarmed over
the monster of their own creation.
They issued a pretty piece of paper
known as the purity code and
honor-bowund each school to re.
port itself for any violation of it.
Well, our littte college was a mem-
ber of the national body and accept.
ed the purity code at face value,

if not for what it was worth.

It was very funny when the cy. |
nics got hold of the news that our
little college had reported itself
for some minor, inadvertent infrac-
tion. Without the subsidy that
most schools considered only neces.
sary but didn’t care to admit, it
was regularly taking its lumps on
the playing fields. Its opponents
grew bigger and better, but in
most cases they declared no vio-
lations of the prissy purity code.

It’s Unhealthy In The Middle
Of The Road

To some it seemed to continue
in this manner would do our college
no good. Character building is high-
ly to be desired, but somehow, a
boy doesn’t particularly benefit
from having his nose pushed in the
dirt every Saturday.

It was apparent that one of two
choices should be made. First to
go what the sportswriters call “big
time” in athletics, which the admin-
istration never wished nor was pre-
pared to do. Second, to carry on
with its normal sports program, but
to drop down into its own level in
intercollegiate endeavors.

Such decisions, of course, cannot
be made quickly. On one side, the
sports-minded alumni began to de-
mand teams like the other schools
had. On the other side, the admir-
istration held steadfastly to its
own level in intercollegiate endeav-
ors.

The unhappy result was a stale.
mate. While nobody could decide
just what to do, our little college's
teams were left in the middle of
the road. And what happens when
you stay in the middle of the road
too long? You get knocked down.

There isn’t any end to this story
and if you want a moral make up
your own. As of now, our little
college is still undecided. It is still
in the middle of the road and, gen-
tlemen, the traffic is getting heavy.
