PAGE SIX

New Secretaries
Fill All Offices

For the benefit of you wolves
who'd rather do your howling here
on the campus, we prepared a list
of the new secretaries plus back-
ground.

Pounding the keyboard in Dr.
Brown's office is Miss Alice Wal-
ker of Forest City, N. C. A gradu-] PRATERNITY COUNOIL...
ate of Flora MacDonald College,
she majored in piano. For three]. (Continued Prom Page One)
ears Miss Walker guided the mu- tional Relations Club. ;
sh 8 . The work of the Hénorary Fra-
oh and nd outh ren ch: " her ternity Council is invaluable in
came to Davidson and ot the mon maintaining a workable schedulr
ment has no definite future plans of meetings for its many member

N. NS. | fraternities, as well as coordinating

ext you catch yourself seeing their activities

double it will probably be the Sher- .
rill twins, Layce and Joyce (their
mother did this on purpose) of
Mooresville. They’ve been together NATIONALLY FAMOUS...
in everything including high school, (Continued From Page One)

college, and their jobs. Almost sep-| open for the winter season to ac-
arated after graduation from King’s] commodate Spivak’s drawing power.
Business College, they were reuni-| Spivak came to the Cafe Rouge of
ted a day later when Joyce gave] the Hotel Statler shortly after, and
up a decision to work in Charlotte.| broke Glenn Miller’s and Jimmy
Couple of you guys need dates for] Dorsey’s records there, and then
homecoming? did the same thing at the Commo-

Mr. Hengeveld got a corner on|dore. He has been a regular fall
the market when two new girls| attraction at the Statler every sea-
came to his office this past sum-|-son. .
mer. Miss Sybil MacKorel, of Gas-| <A highlight was his award by
tonia, came after majoring in Bible} Downbeat Magazine as having the
at Erskine College. She was offered] top band. Spivak is mildmannered
her position by Mr. Jackson when| and quiet-spoken, He is five feet
he noticed her ad in the Christian] eight inches tall, has brown hair,
Observer. Boys with preference for] blue eyes and still blushes at a
brunettes apply here. Mrs. Tommy} compliment. A baseball fan, Spi-
Northcott also helps find lads who] vak has organized a team within his
aren't taking P. T. She worked for} own band. Charlie plays center field.
the Dean of Instruction at Mary
Baldwin College, was a WAVE for
four and one-half years during the
wat, and married a Navy medical
man before accepting a job here.
Her father is Mr. F. L. Jackson of
local fame.

Another married gal, Mrs. Lee

es

CHALMERS DAVIDSON .. .

(Continued From Page One)
His other works include a short
biography of Major John Davidson,
one of his Revolutionary forbears.

*Friend of the People: The
Life of Dr. Peter Fayssoux of
Charleston, South Carolina.”
By Chalmers G. Davidson.
Medical Association of South
Carolina, Columbia, S. C. $2.75

Student Congress
Confers and Views
World Situation

Ann Arbor, Mich.—The Korean

Talbert, works for Mr. McLean. A
native of Greensboro, she is a
graduate of Charlotte Central High
School. At that time she looked for-
ward to being a nurse until Lee
came along. Couldn't, notice any
tears over this interrupted career,
though.

In Mr. Payne's office, is Mrs.
J. D. Corriher. An accounting major
Bolling Green Business College, she
completed her study there with an
A.A. degree. Mr. Corriher is on the
faculty and they have no imme-
diate plans for the future.

After a peculiar bit of persuasion,
Dr. Cunningham managed to get
his secretary, Miss Ethel Beach,
to come South. She calls Wood-
mont, Conn., home and was camp
secretary for New York City Mis-
sion Society before her present po-
sition. Previous to that she was em-
ployed as secretary for the Yale
Divinity School.

Miss Alma Courtney, a graduate
of Duke University, come to Da-
vidson last summer. She's a lively
brownette, but Charlie Mitchell is
top dog at the moment.

Tests To Be Given
Four Times a Year

Princeton, N. J.—Tests of the
Graduate Record Examination, re-
quired of applicants for admission
to a number of graduate schools,
will be administered at examination
centers throughout the country
four times in the coming year,
Educational Testing Service
has announced. During 1949-1950
nearly 13,000 students took the
GRE in partial fulfillment of ad-
mission requirements of graduate
schools which prescribed it.

This fall candidates may take
the GRE on Friday and Saturday,

War competed with campus prob-
lems for the attention of represen-
tatives of more than 300 American
colleges and universities attending
the Third Annual National Student
Congress in August here.

Students affirmed the United Na-
tiuaal position on Kofea, strength-
ened their own stands on academic
freedom, discrimination, and scho-
larships, but did not complete work
on a revised Student Bill of Rights.

Dues in the U. S. National Stu-
dent Association (NSA) were re-
duced by 30 percent, and the na-
tional headquarters were left in
Madison, Wis., with a sub-commis-
sion to study other possible sites
in the middle west.

Officers elected for the coming
year were:

President, Allard K. Lowenstein,
21, University of North Carolina.

Vice-President of Student Affairs,
Elmer Paul Brock, 24, La Salle
College, Pa.

Vice-President of Educational Af-
fairs, Herbert Goldsmith, 23, Uni-
versity of Wisconsin.

Vice-President of International
Affairs, Herbert Eisenberg, 23, Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology

On the “immediate challenge to
student life and incentive” of the
Korean situation, students support-
ed the UN in application of Articles
33 and 42 for mediation, concilia-
tion and arbitration, and for use of
armed forces in breaches of peace.
Their action fallowed a special or-
der of business to allow 10 minutes
speaking time to Robert Fogel, La-
bor Youth League, who presented
the North Korean view of the Ko-
rean War. Students allowed him
to speak ‘because they felt that his
views would riot be expressed by
bonafide delegates from member
schools. His speech was received
with complete silence.

Students also condemned oppres-
sion as well as aggression and ex-

October 27 and 28; in 1951, the] Pressed sympathy and support “for
dates are February 2 and 3, May the efforts of our fellow students
4 and 5, August 3 and 4. Since the] in countries which are now strug

A new method of psychological
warfare dgainst Communism, CRU-
SADE FOR FREEDOM has been
launched throughout the nation.
Colleges and universities are urged
t6 support it for two reasons: as
loyal American citizens, first; and
secondly, since the group in any

Communists is the “young intelli-
gentia,” college students will want
to speak up for democracy and
freedom. "

In launching the Crusade for
Freedom on Labor Day in a nation-
wide radio broadcast, General
Dwight D. Eisenhower described
Crusade for Freedom as: “a cam-
paign sponsored by private Ameri-
can citizens to fight the big lie
with the big truth. It is a program
that has been hailed by President
Truman and all others who have
heard of it, as an essential step in
getting the case for freedom heard
by the world’s multitudes.”

General Lucius D. Clay, as Chair-
man of the Crusade for Freedom,
has issued a special appeal to col-
lege and university students, stating:
“As students of history, literature,
political, physical and social scien-
ces, you ‘know tliat what men be-
lieve to be true has been as im-
portant as the truth itself in de-
termining human events. If we are
ever to achieve a secure and lasting
peace, the other peoples of the
world must know the truth, They
must understand our ideals of free-
dom and friendship for all men and
all nations. Working together in the
freedom Crusade, we can help to
put the world on the offensive: By
signing the Freedom Scrol! with
its declaration of world freedom
you, as an individual, place yourself
on record in the roll call of de-
mocracy—a roll call that one day
must extend around the world. T
urge your participation in the Cru-
sade and sincerely hope that you
will exert your leadership to help
make it a great historic effort o/
free peoples.” ;

Every college student can help
support the Crusade for Freedom,
Gen. Clay points out, by doing two
things: sign the Freedom Scroll,
which in brief affirms his belief as
a free American in the right of all
men to freedom; and make a con-

‘|

©

country which most concerns the|

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Colleges And Universities Urged
To Support Crusade For Freedom

tribution to the Crusade, which wili
be used to help expand Radio Free
Europe, which is the medium
through which private . American
citizens can fight back against vi-
cious Communist attacks upon the
American way of life. It is hoped
that students will want to contri-
bute as they sign—even if they give
up a pack of cigarettes, a milkshake
or a movie in order to speak out
for freedom.

Every ‘college and university in
the nation has been asked to devise
its own plan for its Crusade for
Freedom activities. The president
of each college and university has
received a letter from Gen. Clay,
asking them to appoint a Campus
Crusade Chairman who will appoint
his Campus committec, represent-
ing all campus groups. They will
be asked to meet and devise the best
means of conducting the scroll.
signing, and collecting contributions.
which will be forwarded to the lo-
cal or state Crusade Chairman.

The Freedom Scrolls, signed by
millions of Americans, will be
flown to Berlin, where, on United
Nations Day, October 24th, they
will be enshrined in the base of
the Freedom Belt, as part of the
ceremonies dedicating the bell
which will ring from the Ratthaus
Tower in the Western Sector of
Berlin for the first time on that
day. It will continue to ring daily
from then on as a symbol of free-
dom, giving hope to those behind
the Iron Curtain for eventual re-
turn of their freedom.

Gen. Clay and the Crusade com-
mittee are counting on every edu-
cational institution in the nation to
afford all of its students and faculty
members the opportunity to sign
the scroll. 100 percent enrollment
will be proof to the Commynists
that the students of America be-
lieve in and appreciate the free and
democratic way of life as opposed
to Communism and totalitarianisnt.

~N | oa!
\ppi 7 ~
OE!
Seg

INS CHCHE!
a aoagd

ais

TED WILLIAMS If
BOSTON RED SOX

PHIL RIZZUTO ss
N. ¥. YANKEES

GEORGE KELL 9b -

GRE is not required by all gradu-

DETROIT TIGERS ‘
gling for independence and self-gov- ‘

ate schools, ETS advises each stu-[|erning status.” The resolution con-
dent to inquire of his prospective] cluded that the success of these
school whether or not he is ex-] Students in securing the freedom
pected to take the test and, if so,] and equality of opportunity for
which dates. their people will aid substantially
The GRE tests offered in these] in the elimination of the causes of
nationwide programs include a test} war.
of general scholastic ability, tests} NSA international programs in the
of general achievement in six broad | future will be based on multilater-
fields of undergraduate study, and] al working arrangements with stu-
advanced level tests of achievement | dent groups around the world to-
in various subject matter fields.| ward international understanding
According to ETS, candidates are] and fellowship. Programs will in-
permitted several options among] clude seminars, workcamps, travel
these tests. and exchange of students, exchange
Application forms and a Bulletin| of publications, cultural study pro.
of Information, which provides de-| grams, and exchange of ideas. NSA
tails of registration and administra-| will also consult with other stu-
tion, as well as sample questions, | dent groups on determining if there
may be obtained from advisers or] exists a basis for formation of an
directly from Educational Testing] international organization open to
Service, P. O. Box 592, Princeton.| students from every nation, which
N. J., or P, O. Box 9896, Los Feliz] would subordinate ideological dif-
Station, Los Angeles 27, California. | ferences. ,
as competed application must reach
t Office at least two weeks | ¢j i ; 4
before the date of the administra- swelying. which the candidate is
\ Coe

mer os

HEY MAC! INTERRUPTING
YOUR GI BILL TRAINING
OR DROPPING OUT OF
SCHOOL? BE SURE YOU
NONFY YOUR V-A OFFICE

BEFORE You quiT!

Law Aspirants
To Be Given Tests
Each Quarter

Princeton, N. J—The Law
School Admission Test, required of
applicants for admission to a num-
ber of leading American law schools,
will be given at-more than 100
centers throughout the United
States on November 18, 1950, and
on February 24, April 28 and Aug-
ust 11, 1951. During 1949-50 8,100
applicants took this test, and their
scores were sent to 92 law schools.

A candidate must make separate
application for admission to each
law school of his choice and should
inquire of each school whether it
wishes him to take the Law
School Admission Test. Since many
law’ schools select theie freshman
classes in the spring preceding
their entrance, candidates for ad-
mission to next year’s classes are
advised to take either the Novem-
ber or the February test, if pos-
sible.

The Law School Admission Test,
prepared and administered by Edu-
cational Testing Service, features
objective questions measuring ver-
bal aptitudes and reasoning ability
rather than acquired information.
According to ETS it cannot be
“crammed” for. Sample questions
and information regarding registra-
tion for and administration of the
test are given in a Bulletin of In-

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1950

Wealth of Books Adedd To Library;
Six No-Cirricular Books Popular

Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, li-
brary director, released this week
names of the six most popular non-
curricular books in the library dur-
ing the 1949-50 school year and also
information on new library books.

Based on circulation records last
year’s most popular six in order of
their popularity were “The Egypt-
ain” by Waltari, “Point of No Re-
turn” by Marquand, “Guard of
Honor” by Cozzens, “Father of the
Bride” by Streeter, “Bold Galilean”
by Blythe, and “Naked and The

+ | Dead” by Mailer.

Among new books received dur-
ing the summer by the library are:
“Seeds of Treason” by Ralph de
Talodaro and Victor Lasky. “Seeds
of Treason” is the story of the Al-
ger Hiss-Whittaker Chambers in.
cident. Its dedication which is ty-
pical of the book’s tone reads:
“To Joseph Stalin—without whose
help this book would never have
been written.”

“Willlam Henry Belk” by Le
Gette Blythe, author of last year’s
“Bold Galilean,” is the story of a
southern farm boy, reared in dark
days of Reconstruction, who be-
came a pioneer of modern merchan-
dising in the South. Blythe is liter-
ary editor of the “Charlotte Obser-
ver.”

“Kon-Toki—Across the Pacific
by Raft” by Thor Hezerdakl, re-
lates an effort of six men to support
a theory that the South Sea islands
were peopled from Peru by cross-
ing the Pacifi, 4.300 miles, on the
wooden raft Kon-Tiki, named for
the legendary sun king. It is an ex-
citing account of twentieth century
adventure. °

“Have You Read 100 Great
Books” with foreword by Carl Van
Doren. This highly valuable ref-
erence volume includes, among

formation.

Bulletins and applications for the
test should be obtained four to six
weeks in advance of the desired
date from Educational Testing Ser-
vice, P. O. Box 592, Princeton, N.
J. Completed applications must be
received at least ten days before
the desired testing date in order to
allow ETS time to complete the
necessary testing arrangements for
each candidate.

108 DIMAGGIO ef
N, Y. YANKEES

ROBIN ROBERTS p
PHILA. PHILLIES

YOGI BERRA .¢
N. ¥. YANKEES

a I

eo
EDDIE STANKY 2b
N, ¥, GIANTS

other instructive information, fifty
lists of great books including public
library and college selections and
ing course. This is a life-long read-
ing guide for those who want to
know something about the great
books of all time.

“The Spanish Gardener” by A. J.
Croin, author of “The Green Years.”
This is a haunting book with over-
tures of both beauty and tragedy.
It. is a tense, tender novel of a
father’s too-possessive love for his
son.

Ten of the 75 members of David-
son College faculty and administra-
tion are listed in the latest publica-
tion, by A. N. Marquis, publishers
of the standard “Who's Who in
America,”

The new publication is a region-
al volume, “Who’s Who in the
South and Southwest,” modeled af-
ter the original Who’s Who. States
included for biographical selection
are Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Ken-
tucky, Tennessee, Alabama, Missis-
sippi, Arkansas, Louisiana, Okla.
homa and Texas. ’

Those from Davidson who have
biographical sketches in the 1950
edition are Dr. C. K. Brown, Dean
and Economics Professor; Dr. John
R. Cunningham, President; Dr.
Chalmers G. Davidson, History
Professor and Library Director; Dr.
George A. Douglas, Sociology Pro-
fessor; Dr. Edward O. Guerrant,
International Relations Professor;
F, L. Jackson, Treasurer; Dr. W. L.
Lingle, President Emeritus; James
Christian Pfolil, Director of Music;
Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Physics Pro-
fessor; and Dr. E. F. Shewmake,
English Professor.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS...
(Continued From Page One)
Sunday Pat visits members of the
congregation two afternoons each
weck. Approximately one hundred
members comprise the South Park

church.

Many churches which are unable
to support a full time pastor can
have services regularly by calling
a pre-ministerial student as supply
pastor. Students gain valuable ex.
perience anid meet people by aiding
these needy churches.

STAN MUSIAL rf
ST. LOUIS CARDINALS

“> s

*

ay Fane
-. pe .

{ Copyright 1950, Locers & Mysas Tonacco Co.
