FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1950
. N

100th SCIEN

Davidson College’s Science Department, an important part of the
college despite Davidson’s over-shadowing reputation as a classical
institution, is celebrating this year its 100th anniversary.

Although the purposes of Davidson’s science program are different
from those of the large university research centers, work in the scien-
tific fields during the past century has produced a surprising number of
unique contributions to the world.

In 1896 the first ex-ray picture made in America and the second
ever taken was made at Davidson. Approximately 25 years earlier Dr.
Paul Barringer of Charlotte established at Davidson the first pre-medical
course of study ever offered in this country. His efforts led to the
founding of the North Carolina Medical College, a famous old institu-
tion whose mark is still felt in Southern Medicine.

Interest in science at Davidson, which is 114 years old, quickened
back in 1850 when Major Elias Rockwell was made the first full-time
professor in the field. Prior to his appointment, math and natural philos-
ophy, as science was then called, were combined.

Since 1850 three presidents of Davidson have been scientists and
under their direction the college has established a remarkable record
in the scientific field.

However, scientific ‘work had been a recognized part of the cur-
riculum since the college was founded. At one early period the scientists
were able to outvote the classical faculty by a vote of 5-3. Today the
department is staffed by fourteen professors.

The arrival at Davidson in the 1850's of Major Daniel Harvey Hill,
who was later to become the brilliant and gifted Confederate general,
was a boost to the sciences. A teacher of mathematics, Major Hill, a
vigorous and decisive personality, had a lasting effect on the college. He
married a daughter of Robert Hall Morrison, Davidson's first president,
as did Stonewall Jackson, and now lies buried in the Davidson cemetery.

During Major Hill's tenure Professor Carr taught chemistry and
Professor Leland handled the natural philosophy classes, giving the
college a well-rounded science department. At this time expense for a
science student amounted to approximately $53 per year.

The decades of the 70's and 80’s were the forerunners of today’s
well-equipped science department. In 1870, Prof. William Joe Martin,
who was later to become president of the college, developed one of the
finest chemistry laboratories in the country. This was followed in 1887
by the appointment of Dr. Henry Louis Smith, also a Davidson presi-
dent, as professor of natural philosophy. Dr. Smith immediately began
work on a physics laboratory. It was through his research that on
January 12, 1896 a group of students took the first x-ray picture made in
America. Due to fear of faculty intervention the results were not im-
mediately announced and there remains some question about where
the world's first picture was produced. A German ‘scientist’s claim that
he made a picture in Germany about two weeks before the Davidson
experiment is accepted by some scientists. Soon after their first picture,
Dr. Smith’s students moved their equipment to Concord and produced
the first pictures ever to show a foreign body inside a human. The plate
was of a thimble swallowed by a child and an operation successfully
removed it.

Dr. Smith, who is living today in Greensboro, left the Davidson
presidency in 1912 to accept a similar position at Washington and Lee,
serving long and successful terms on both campuses.

A new era in Davidson chemistry began in 1900 when a fine labora-
tory was built and named for Col. W. J. Martin. Occupying the ground
where the college library now stands, the Mastin Science building re-
mained in service until 1943 when the new science building was erected.

The arrival of Dr. W. L. Porter, now professor emeritus, was the
beginning of the Biology Department. When the medical college was
moved to Charlotte in 1907, Dr. J. W. MacConnell was named professor
of biology and occupied the post for a number ot years, but his medical
practice prevented his devoting full time to teaching.

Today, housed in the splendid Martin Science building, the Science
Department is well staffed with fourteen full-time professors and well
equipped to teach a variety of courses. Dr. John B. Gallent, Dr. Thomas
S. Logan, Assoc. Professor’ Oscar J. Thies and Asst. Professor D. J.
Bettinger handle the chemistry labs and teaching. Biology 1s staffed by
Dr. Olin Puckett, Dr. Elmer E. Brown and Dr. Tom Daggy. In the
Physics Department are Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Professor H. E. Futcher
and Asst. Professor Lacy S. Sellars. Dr. J. W, Reid teaches Geography
and Geology and Dr. W. G. McGayock, Professor J. T. Kimbrough and
W. N. Mebane are in Mathematics.

Perhaps the most valuable contribution which the Sciences at Da-
vidson have made to the world can be measured by the quality of men
trained in the college laboratories. More than a thousand doctors con-
ducted their first experiments in the Biology and Chemistry depart-
ments at Davidson. The prominence that many have received is indi-
cated by the position held by Dr. Harold M. Marvin, president of the
American: Heart Association, and Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, president
of the Southern Medical Association.

In a recent decade for which figures are now available, only 36
colleges or «universities furnished more men for graduate study in physics.
In chemistry, men earning’ doctorates stand in the 50th rank. In the
last normal enrollment year Davidson sent to graduate schools 3.15
men for each hundred enrolled, a mark which is not surpassed in North
Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, or Louisiana.

Present day teaching in the sciences at Davidson is geared toward
these specific objectives: (1) to help the student understand something
about the universe and to give him a concept of the methods and ma-
terials of science; (2) To prepare men for graduate study at professional
schools; (3), To prepare men to enter fields sucn as chemistry, biology,
math and physics, and (4) To prepare men to teach in secondary
schools.

These aims are accomplished by use of the Martin Science Hall
which houses biology and chemistry and includes lecture rooms equipped
with audiovisual aids and modern laboratories with specially designed
equipment. The Math and Physics departments are housed in Chambers
Building where the Physics students have available complete labora-
tories and workshops.

CE ANRIVE:SARY CE

Gross obnoxiousness! That’s the
only conclusion one can arrive at
after doing historical research on
the subject of “Freshmen.”

Of course the evidence is at
hand, but instead of trusting mere
observation, the historical work en-
titled “Davidson College,” by Miss
Cornelia Rebekah Shaw, former li-
brarian, will be referred to crase
any shades of doubt.

Back in 1902 things were dif-
ferent. But Freshmen weren't! As
usual, they were trying to pull
something spectacular. But as usua)
their efforts were foiled. Miss Shaw
recounts the episode as follows:

“During this year (1902.03) came
the most serious student distur-
bance since the rebellion of 1885.
As soon as Dr. Smith became
president, he instituted a vigorous
campaign for a larger number of
students. By speeches and by writ-
ing he impressed upon the young
men of the church the value of a
college education. As a result, the
class of 1906, entering in 1902,

FRESHMAN OF ’50 IS “HOPE OF AGES”

his life makes when the operative
word to the freshman of 1950.

“He has bought a pipe, and al-
though extraordinarily bitter things

come out of its intermittent fire,
he rather likes it.” So begins
Charles Poore’s article on the Class
of '54, which he calls a “new gen-
eration and a new hope.” Writing
in the “New York Times Maga-
zine,” Mr. Poore comments on the
freshman class of all colleges as a
whole. However, his ideas are not
of the “bag-of-wind” variety which
all college students had enough of
before they were out of high school;
it is a refreshing view of a man
who has been through it all before
and is ngw looking with pleasure
at the group of young people whom
he calls the “hope of the ages.”

Mr. Poore brings his observa-
tions close to home when he quotes
a typical college freshman: “The
Dean told us just to do our work
here, and not to worry. Well, we're
not. worrying so much any more.
We're just wondering how long it
will last and when they'll put in
those brown suits.”

When, When? That is the word
which concerns every phase of the
freshman’s life. The uncertainty o

Mr. Poore writes in a rather
philosophical vein, but he goes not
without a few touches of tongue-
in-cheek humor. For example:

“An unaccountably wide assort-
ment of Big Wheels has told you
that, if there’s Anything You Don’t
Understand, If You Get Into Any
Difficulties, You Mustn’t Hesitate
to drop in for counsel and Advice:
‘My door is always open.’”

And again:

“Your roommate has a useful
variety of clothes you can wear, if
you're tactful about it, as well as
the darndest collection of views
you ever heard on Jove. . .on how
to win good marks and influence
coaches, on politics and religion
and where to put that overstuffed
chair you lugged all the way from
home.”

The writer comes up with one
observation, which, although it may
understandably startle a few of the
class of °50, is certainly thought-
provoking:

“They are the hope of the ages,
and they know it, without rancor

and without vainglory, because they
are not particularly sure that com.
ing ages are going to be very tran-
quil, or that these passing days of-
fer lavish grounds for hope.”

The general theme—if you read
between the lines—of the writer is
one that has been preached to col.
lege freshmen thousands of times,
only now its importance has been
increased manyfold “Make the best
of the opportunity you have—the
future of the world is in your
hands,” says the whole article in ef-
fect. An old story, yes; but what
could be more true in these uncer.
tain times?

Mr. Poore expresses the thoughts
of every freshman in his conclu.
sion, when he says:

“All we know for certain is this:
the world changes. But the fresh-
man goes on forever, changing with
the changing world. He hopes the
planet will grow up some day. But
he’s beginning to wonder whether
it’s up to him to say when.”

modern scientific equipment are be
Davidson's scientific departments.

Obnoxiousness Revealed as Ancient Plague of Frosh

When Miss Shaw Rattles Dusty Skeletons of 1902

” THE DAVIDSONIAN '

LEBRATED

omy

wine vane j OTE wag 7
?

oe

~ = § oa .
A CENTURY OF SCIENCE—Davidson College, whe re the first X-ray picture ever made in America was
taken in 1895, is celebrating this year the 100th
in Davidson Science are pictured above. At left is Dr. Henry Louis Smith, under whose direction the
X-ray was developed; Dr. Howard B. Arbuckle, long-time chemistry professor, is in the center and Con-
federate General D. H. Hill, a prominent member of the 1850's, is on the right. Students at work with
low the handsome Martin Science Building which houses two of

was by far the largest in the his.
tory of the college. The class of
1905 was small, both in numbers
and in stature. Backed by tradition
and precedent, the sophomores
hazed the freshmen, though each
man entering the college at this
period signed a pledge to refrain
from hazing. The freshmen defeat-
ed the sophomores in a class game
of baseball and painted the score on
the pillars of Chambers Building.
The situation invited trouble.

At the close of the annual sopho-
more banquet, the feasters found
the front door of Chambers Build-
ing. then the only dormitory in
use, barred. The rooms of the soph-
omores had been ‘roughed’ and the
freshmen were found barricaded on
the second floor of the Spence
-House, a freshman rendezvous.
The leaders at the top of the stairs
and the leaders at the bottom par-
leyed interminably. After several
hours it was agreed by the fresh.
men (so states a member of the
class) that in view of the tact that
their object was not to be insubor-
dinate, but to stop hazing to which
they had been subjected for five
months, they would submit to a
punishment of “one lick around.”
that to be the end of the hazing for
the year. The committee of sopho-
mores, so it was charged did not
keep faith.

“The next evening the freshmen
at a class meeting held during the
supper hour, decided to leave in a
body on a train passing through
Davidson at 8 o'clock. To avoid
trouble they walked to Cornelius,
a station a mile away. All the
money they possessed was divided,
no man regarding what he had as
his own.

“In the meantime, the sopho-

Mooresville Ice

Cream Company
MAKERS OF

DeluxelceCream

Mooresville, N.C.

anniversary of its science department.

Faithful Janitress
Retires After Many
Years of Service

Many of the services which go
to make up a well-ordered and ef-
ficient college community are ren-
dered to the students by persons
they rarely see. For over thirty-five
years Mrs. Percy Simolton Scales
served the college library as jani-
tress. According to Percy's recol-
lections, she worked in the family
of President Henry Louis Smith
and raised his children for him un-
til his resignation in 1912 to become
President of Washington and Lee.
Percy spent one year in Lexington
with the Smiths and then returned
to Davidson and began her work
for the College.

_ Perey was born and brought up
near Davidson. The Simoltons were
respected nicmbers of the colored
community, noted for honesty and
intelligence. Miss Cornelia Shaw
who was librarian for the College
from 1907 until 1936 obtained
Percy's services when the library
was moved from old Chambers
building to the new Carnegie Li-
brary, now the Guest House. Miss
Shaw thought very highly of Percy
and the library was notable for
cleanliness and order. When the
new Grey Memorial Building was
erected in 1941 it was necessary to
secure a man for the heavy work,
but Percy stayed on as assistant
until last summer. Her intelligence
made her invaluable in putting up
newspapers and similar work.
Much of Percy's work was done
from six to nine a. m. The students
rarely saw her but they saw. the
results of her careful attention. She
did part time work in the day for
the Devane family, for Miss Maude
Vinson and Miss Orrie Steele.
Without exception those for whom
Percy worked regarded her as a
very superior helper. Not only was
she thorough well-bred and honest
but she was also possessed of a
sense of humor and good nature that
was contagious. In her own com.
munity on Mock’s Hitl, across from
the Southern Railway — station,
Vercy has been active in religious
and educational work, Her home
is a model of good housekeeping.
One of her employers once re-
marked that anything’ you gave
Percy always looked better in her
house than it did. in your own.
After a series of illnesses during
1949 and 1950, Percy was retired
last stimmer on part pay. She has
been twice married and lives with
her second husband in an attractive
white cottaze on the turn of the
road on Mock’s Hill. For over
thirty-five years she was a member
of the College staff and. there are
few in its history who have ren.
dered so long, so loyal and so ef-

ed

Pioneers

mores were in conclave in the
Young Men's Christian Association
rooins. President Smith conferred
with them, while Professors Mir-
tin and Grey went to Cornelius to
persuade the freshmen to return.
The interview was made possible
by the fact that the train was an
hour late. The class returned with
the understanding that class dif-
ferences would be sympathically
discussed. One freshman, under the
supervision of a senior, without the
knowledge of his class, rubbed out
the score on the pillars. The sopho-

kept guard day and night

et AE SE Sete SS SS

Get Your Car for Homecoming
142 E. Morehead—Charlotte

for fear that some one else other
than a freshman might erase the
score. Evidence was secured that

GRADE °A” MILK

the young man who scraped the fi-

RIZED
gures off had put them there with- PASTEU
out the sanction of his class.” Daily Delivery
PHONE 205

So one can easily see that men
may come and men may go, but
Freshmen are obnoxious forever.

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

0S SS SE SS SS SS LS SS SS SS og}

: THACKER’S, INC. :
Private Dining Rooms

ill for

i Parties and Banquets i
Hl “A GOOD PLACE TO EAT” A
. Phone 25490 il

| 221 South Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C
Cae SS SS Se Se ee

Pol ode ledodololedeteleletelodedeteteepdodedplobebebp bet ple C eee eee

: W her, @ you meet your friends

Charlottes Finest Restaurant

ficient a service as Percy Scales.

‘ PAGE THREE

State
Theatre

Mooresville

WEEK STARTING
OCTOBER 26th

Thursday and Friday

‘DUCHESS OF IDAHO’
Color by Technicolor
Esther Williams - Van Johnson
John Lund

NEWS — SHORTS

Saturday

‘CROOKED RIVER’
James Ellison - Russell Hayden
— Also —

Paul Kelly - June Travis

’ in
‘JOIN THE MARINES’
CARTOON - SERIAL
Owl Show Saturday Night
‘MUSIC IN THE
MOONLITE'’
Dorothy Lewis - Jerry Colona
CARTOON
Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
‘ANNIE GET YOUR
GUN’

Betty Hutton - Howard Keel
Louis Calhern - Edward Arnold

NEWS

On ey

Center

Theatre

Mooresville

_

WEEK STARTING
OCTOBER 26th

Wednesday-Thursday
‘RENEGADES’
Color by Technicolor
NEWS . COMEDY
9c and 25c

|

Friday and Saturday

‘BANDIT
‘KING OF TEXAS’

Allan “Rocky” Lane
— Also —
‘CACTUS CARAVAN’
Tex Williams

OWL SHOW SATURDAY
Monday and Tuesday
‘OUTRAGES OF THE

ORIENT’
CARTOON - NEWS

Tee

Starlite

DRIVE-IN THEATRE
Salisbury-Landis Highway

WEEK STARTING
OCTOBER 26th

Wednesday and Thursday
‘BEAU GESTE’
Gary Cooper
Ray Milland
Robert Preston
CARTOON

Friday and Saturday
‘SHADOWS OF THE
WEST’
Whip Wilson
— Also — —
‘HOLD THAT BABY’

Leo Gorcey and the
Bowery Boys
SERIAL - CARTOON

Sunday
"WAKE ISLAND’
Brian Donlevy
CARTOON
Monday and Tuesday
‘TALL IN THE SADDLE’
John Wayne - Ella Raines

SHORTS

RS SSS
