BIG BRASS TO INSPROT

INFANT INFANTRY

VOLUME XXXIX

The Dabidso

a

Ve

ALENDA LURK UBS CRTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1950

Man

ey,

SUBSORIBERS SORAM ,

AT JACKSON’S JUSTICE

NUMBER EIGHT

*

PRE-MARITAL TALKS TO BE GIVEN BY PROF. HILL

Touted UNC Marriage Professor 7
Slated To Give Practical Lectures ’

A series of talks and discussions pertaining to practical

Veteran of Two

The student body, who voted the
first part of the week, has elected
Wood Leach, a senior from De.

Wars To Inspect
RO.T.C. Dept |e ste: se St

Colonel Redding F. Perry, Chief| cil, an office which should have
of the North Carolina Military Dis-] been voted upon at the cpening of
trict will visit the campus Tuesday,] this school year but which prior
November 2st for the purpose of|to this week had not been done.
inspecting the Military Department,| The finalists in the election were
according to information received | Wood Leach and Auburn Lambeth.
by the Professor of Military Sci-[ who were chosen out of a group of
ence and Tactics. Each year Colon-| five boys which consisted of Monty
el Perry performs at least one, and! Hill, Hoopy Davis, Tommy Haller,
usually two, such inspections. In] and the two finalists. Wood was
addition, of course, the Military] clected in the vote of Tuesday of
Department undergoes the regular | this week. ,

Annual Formal Inspection by sev-] Prior to the persent setup of this
eral high ranking officers late in the] council, there were three seperate
spring. and distinct committees which

Colonel Perry is a veteran of| formed this council: (1) the Ath-
more than 33 years service in the] !etic Council of Trustees, (2) the
Army. Born in Henderson, N. C.,1 Faculty Athletic committee, and (3)
he attended the University of North| the Alumni Advisory committee.
Carolina. His military career be.| Under this system there was no
gan in 1917 when he was appoint- representation of the, student body
ed a second lieutenant of Cavalry.| itself, and since the need was telt
He served in France and Germany | for such representation, it was de-
during World War I as a member|Cided that the student body add
of the 80th Division. After the war,| this to their list of elected offices.

he entered upon a series of varied| !n its present formation, the three}.
assignments with Cavalry units in] Committees plus the student repre-

the United States. Then followed a, Sentative have been consulidated
special assignment. under General into one joint council, although the
of the Armies “Black Jack” Persh-| members of the council shall be

ing in writing the history of World| Composed of ‘representatives from |

War I. the three groups which were here-

When modern armor was being
developed in 1937, Colonel Perry, NEWS ITEMS
then a major, was ordered to the
Armored Center at Fort Knox, Ky.,] After two years of careful study
from an overseas assignment in|/the “D” club is about to present
China and the Philippines. He be-| the faculty’ with a request for the
came G.4 (Supply Officer) of the} addition of new courses for those
2nd Armored Division, then Chief} majoring in Physical Education.
of Staff of an armored corps train-| The club has seen a need for this,
ing Center in the southwestern] for in the past Davidson graduates
United States. and then as almajoring in Physical Education
staff officer with supply headquart-/ have found it necessary to take an
ers in Washington. extra year of work before they

During the Tunisian Campaign,| can enter graduate school.

Colonel Perry served as Chief off Members of the coaching staff
Staff of an Armored Corps again.{and faculty have been aiding the
Later, in France, he was a high] club in their research. The club
staff officer with General Patton’s| hopes to have completed its finding
Third Army, and after the ‘warland present them to the Student
commanded a Cavalry Group in} Body by next semester.

Czechoslovakia. —____

When he came home from over-| The rifle team defeated Clem-
seas late in 1945, Colonel Perry as-] son College in a postal match last
sumed command of all school| week by the score of 1880 to 1837.

(Continued On Page Six) Possible score was 2000. The Da-

vidson score was the highest fired
THOMAS WOLFE

schleat’ scare.” Aubrey: Mirce,_ the
Works of Celebrated
Authorare Displaye

team’s captain, was again the high
The life and works of one of

scorer with 382 out of 400. This
week the team will fire a postal
match with the University of
Niagara.

North Carolina’s most celebrated

literary artists is being featured in
one of the Davidsonian’s Room dis-
play cases. The material, collecte:]

U. Va.-D. C. Debators
and contributed by Pe Cumming, Lock Literary Horns

magazines, and newspaper clippings| The University of Virginia and
that illustrate Thomas Wolf’s lit-| Davidson college heid an intercol-
erary achievements in addition to! legiate debate in Phi Hall, Novem.
interesting facts concerning his life.] ber 16. A negative and an affirma-
Wolfe studied at the University] tive team was sent from the Univer-
of North Carolina and Harvard] sity of Virginia to discuss the na-
University. In 1924 he became pro.| tional intercollegiate topic “Re-
fessor of English at Washington] solved, That Non-Communist Na-
Square College of N. Y. U. It was tions Should Form a New Inter.
while there that he focused the at-| national Organization.” The Da-
tention of the nation upon the] vidson negative which was com-
mountains of North Carolina with] posed of Pete Kalogridis and Jack
the publishing of “Look Homeward | Huntef, won by a narrow margin.
Angel,” a story of family life in The affirmative, Herbert Cannon
the Great Smokies. When Wolfe] and Carlisle Crenshaw lost to the
returned from a European tip in Virginia Negative. The two debates
? 1931, he wrote.“Of Time and the} held simultaneously were judged
River,” Both of these novels includ. {by John Lyles and Professor Grif-
ed a great deal of apparent auto-] fin.
biographical material; and even aft-| Because this was a pre-season
er the author changed his hero'’s| debate neither team had been able
name, there was no mistaking him|to do much work on the topic;
for Thomas Wolfe. however, both teams received many
According to Wolfe, one of his! points on the topic.
cousins attended “a Presbyterian] On Friday, November 17, David-
college” and was “expelled for ad-| son is sending two teams: affirma.
vocating free lov: and socialism| tive Paul Guthery and Bob Combs
white editor of the college paper” | Negative Herbert Cannon and
The college was Davidson but the! Dave Moy'an to Elon College for
Davidsonian was not created untill, debate on the same topic. The
a few years later, and his cousin's Forensic Council is looking for-
college career was greatly exagger-
ated. Today that cousin, is an Ashe-
ville businessman who took a lead.
ing part in the colicge endowment: December 2.
-Campaign last -year., —_———_
Iu July of 1958 Thomas Wolfe} Student Government Association
became a victim of pneumonia. Be-| votes $60,000 for use by student ac-

fore he could fully recover, com-| tivities. Average cut is approxi.

(Continued On Page Six) mately 10 percent.

STUDENT VOIOE ON ATHLETIO COUNOIL

LEACH ELECTED TO COMMITTEE

tofore formed as independent com-.] ball team is nob doing well, this

niittecs. The powers of this coun-| council will find out why and work

ward to the Dixie Tournament to
be held in Charlotte, November 30

cil, as recently stated in the David-| to improve the situation.”

sonian are as follows.” ... the
council is the controlling board ot
athletic policy, and what it says
goes, as far as collegiate affairs,
subsidization, and coaching person.
nel are concerned. It does not have
control over admizsion of s‘udents,
scholarship requirements, or sche-
dules, but even at that its powers
are broad. If, for example, the foot-

i

RQ.

>!

A

WOODY LEACH

As yet, a date has not been set
for the next meeting of the coun.
cil, but it plans to meet about four
times a year and whenever else
it is deemed necessary. The com.
mittee consists now of Front's
Johnston and George Abernethy
from the faculty, who are respon-
sible for policies of physical educa.
tion and student health; Ed M.
Armfield and McAllister Carson,
Jr., president and vice-president of
the newly formed Wildcat Club,
and representatives of the alumni;
D. R. Lafar (chairman), Rev. Sam
Hovis, and Dr. Oren Moore, mem-
bers and representatives of the
Board of Trustees; and Wood
Leach, representative of the Stu.
dent Body.

In speaking of Wood’s new re-
sponsibility, Randy Taylor, presi-
dent of the Student Body, addressed
these remarks to each student: “We
want it understood that this office
is representative—that is, it is sim-
ply the means by which the stu-
dent body voices its opinions to
the council. Each of you is urged
to mect with Woody and voice
your ideas and opinions to him
about any phase of Davidson ath-
letics in which you feel impvove.
ment is needed.”

Top Southern Editor/§, & B. Will Tap Il

Opens ‘50 Davidson
Free Lecture Series

Hodding Carter, one of America's
foremost Southern newspaper edi-
tors opened the 1950 Davidson Col.
lege Public lecture Series at 38:15
Thursday night in Chambers Audi.
torium. Mr. Carter chose as his
subject “Toward a Progressive
Democracy.”

Editor and publisher of the Delta
Democrat Times in Greenville, Mis-
sissippi, Mr. Carter has been
awarded both the Pulitzer Prize
for editorial writing and Goggen-
heim Prize for creative writing.

By relating several personal cx-
periences in wartime, Mr. Carter
dramatized the fact that our present
democracy “is not producing peace.”
From his position as newspaper
editor, he stated that he was able
to observe defined changes in the
once backward South. “External
threats,” he claimed, “are making
evident a need for even more basic
changes.”

Using Main Street in Greenville
to illustrate fundamental American
privileges, Mr. Carter told how its
newspaper office symbolized free-
dom of press and speech, its court
building freedom of equal justice,
and its City hall freedom of repre.
sentation in government. “However,
there are shadows over this street,
the darkest of which is that of the
hammer and sickle,” he warned

He described weak points in these
ferrets, weak points which he
thought are red meat to propaganda
stormed Reds. He cited as ex-
amples such things as corruptness
in some of our courts, the scant
usage of libraries. Overshadowing
these two is the negligence on the
citizens’ part to exercise full power
at the polls.

Although Mr. Carter feels that
America is inevitably moving to-
ward a social welfare state, he de.
nounced those who are evading
their individual responsibilities in
the government.

He re-emphasized the need for

changes. “They are occurring, but|-

(Continued On Page Six)

Rabbi Tofield Will

Speak on Judaism

The Philanthropic Literary
Society will have as its guest speak.
er Monday, Nov. 20, Rabbi Aaron J.
Tofield, of Charlotte. Rabbi Tofield
will speak on “The Basic Conception
of Judaism and How It Meets Tem-
porary World Problems.” The lec-
ture, beginning at 7:15 p. m. in Phi
Hall, will be followed by a fifty-
minute discussion period. The stu-
dent Body is cordially invited.

At Tuesday Drill

Scabbard and Blade, honorary
military fraternity on the campus,
will tap eleven advanced ROTC
students for membership at drill
Tuesday, Jay Roberts, captain of
this organization, announced today.

The new members will be form-
ally initiated when Scabbard and
Blade takes charge of the cadet
regiment, which will be formed in
a parade for the occasion. Not until
this time will the identity of the
new members be revealed.

In order to be eligible for mem-
bership in the organization, a stu.
dent must be at least 9 junior, have
a “B” average in military science
and overall scholastic average of
“C” and must have demonstrated
outstanding leadership and efficien-
cy on the drill field.

Addition of the eleven men to
be tapped Tuesday will increasc the
membership of Scabbard and Blade
to 33.

Colonel James L. Ballard, who
himself became a member of the
group while a student at David.
son, is the faculty advisor of the
local S & B chapter.

‘COMMAND DECISION’

Notice

A Davidson alumni meeting
of the Atlanta Chapter will be
held at Columbia Seminary in
Decatur, Ga., next Friday
night, November 24. Rev. Don.
ald Bailey, president of the
chapter and younger brother
of Dean John C. Bailey, will
preside.

Dr. Cunningham and Coach
Crowell Little will speak at
the dinner, preceding the Da.
vidson.Georgia Tech game the
following afternoon.

It is expected that there will
be about 135 alumni in atten.
dance.

Chapel Schedule

The chapel calendar for this week
is highlighted by the appearance
of Edward H. Johnston, General-
secretary of the Student Volunteer
Movement. He will speak on Mon-
day, November 20th, under the
sponsorship of the YMCA. On
Tuesday, Professor Lilly of the
English Department will be in
charge of the devotional period,
with a student day program fol--
lowing. Wednesday, November 22,
is the President’s day, and Dr. Cun.

ningham will present the program
at that time. Thanksgiving day,
Thursday the twenty-third, a spe.
cial Thanksgiving Day service will
be given, with students and faculty
members taking part. Friday, No.
vember the twenty-fourth, Profes.
sor Berg of the Music Department
will be in charge of the devotionals,
with a student activity program
following.

Frosh Casualty Box

Last This
Week Week
Third Floor Georgia
Freshmen —....-.. 0 12
Walking on grass .... 2 2
No freshmen hats -. 8 3
Not speaking on
campus .--..-..... ! 1
Breaking campus -.. 0 1
Disrespect to
‘ upperclassmen ... 3 5
Total ...--... aweee 14 24
TRADITION

The unwritten and undiscussed
traditions of Davidson College are
these is the assumption by our
often the most respected. One of
faculty that all students are gentle-
men (unless they demonstrate the
contrary) and are to be treated as
such. A violation of this assump-
tion brings quick protest from
faculty and students alike.

phases’ of marriage will be held at Davidson on February 14
and 15. Gene Regen, a member of the Senior Class, and chair-
man of the joint sponsoring committee, announced the round
which will present Dr. Reuben Hill, of UNC, as principal speaker.

Band Plans March
Through Georgia’

Tuxedos as well as uniforms will
be a necessary part of the luggage
of Davidson Band members when
the band’ leaves Friday morning,
November 24, for Atlanta, to appear
there over the weekend in a dual
role. Friday night at eight-thirty
the Davidson Symphonic Band will
present its first concert of the cur.
rent year in the auditorium of
the North Fulton High School in
Atlanta and their appreciation of
fine band music is well-known. to
the Davidson musicians since this
same auditorium was the site of
the first concert on the band’s
Spring tour last year.

On the following afternoon, Sat:
urday, November 25th, the color.
ful red and black uniforms of the
Wildcat Football Band will re.
place the tuxedos as the band
marches into Grant Field to “back
the Cats” against the Yellowjackets
of Georgia Tech. At halftime, the

lband will join with the Georgia

Tech band in presenting a special!
drill, Mr. Pfoh! and Mr. Moore re-
port that band members are work.
ing doubly hard in preparation for
two unusually fine -performances
for presentation in the Georgia
capitol.

Two of the Davidson nisicians
will be performing for the home
folks when the band appears in
Atlanta. Charlie Roper, whe dou.
bles as drum major of the football
band and clarinetist in the concert
band, and Dwen Kellum, who plays
the alto saxophone in both bands
are native Athkntans.

Students whe plan to be in At-
Janta for the. weekend wil: be in-
terested to know that the Davidson
Music Department expects to have
tickets for the Friday niglit con-
cert available to the student body
after the first of next week. Those
who desire tickets are requested to
call by the Music Departinent.

NO DAVIDSONIAN
THANKSGIVING WEEK-END

The Davidsonian will not be pub-
lished next week due to the
proximity of Thanksgiving holidays.
It will, however, be distributed the
following week.

MASQUERS RUN THRU GRUELLING LAST
WEEK REHEARSALS; CURTAIN DATE, 2lst

The cast of the Red and Black
Masquerers’ production, “Command
Decision,” is winding up its final
week of reheasal. This recent Broad-
way hit by W. W. Haines will be
the Masquers’ first play of the sea-
son. It will be presented in Cham-
bers Auditorium November 2! and
22.
Bilt Pharr, a member of the jun-

4 bd
a a * a

ALDEN WILLIAMS

~|his superiors.

ior class, appears in the role of }G. G. Kane is Alden Williams, a

Brigadier General Dennis. Bill, who
hails from Belmont, N. C., is by
no means a newcomer to the stage
at Davidson. He will be remem.
bered for roles in such Masquers
productions as “Arsenic and Old
Lace,” “The Valiant” and “The
Man Who Came To Dinner.” Prior
to coming to Davidson he appeared
in numerous high school produc-
tions. Bill, a business major, is a
member of the Red and Black Mas-

member of the freshman class from
Montreat, N. C. Alden, who is ma-
joring in English, is making his
first appearance with the Masquers
In high school he had considerable
dramatic experience, having ap-
peared in such plays as “Our
Hearts Were Young and Gay” and
(Continued On Page Five)

quers, the Davidsonian and  Phi|: ew

Gamma Delta social fraternity. In] ¢
addition to his role in the play he}

is also the props manager.

General Dennis, whose role Bill}.
is playing, is a forceful, possessing | ’
man of about 40. He is so pre-|:
occupied with the matters which |

are at hand that he appears to be

slightly absent-minded. His pri-}'
mary objective is to bring the war|’
to a conclusion as soon as possible :
—to him war is no fun but since |:

there is a price to be paid for it
—~it is better to pay it now than
to dribble it out. His attitude of the
end justifying the means brings
much criticism and objection by

Appearing in the role of Major

BILL PHARR

This series, which will be simi.
lar to the recent Fall Services in
form, is to include two chapel talks
and numerous afternoon and even.
ing discussions on student-chosen
topics. Previous to Dr. Hill’s visit,
movies will be shown which deal
with childbirth, human puberty, and |
sterility, and phases of sociology
and family relations.

Dr. Hill is professor of sociology
and research professor in the In.
stitute for Research in Social Sci.
ence at UNC. His duties there in-
clude teaching and research in mar.
riage and counseling of students
with premarital problems. He has
led family life institutes in several
states. A co-author of three books
on marriage and the family, he has
had articles published in several
leading magazines and journals.

For several wecks prior to the
‘discussions, a group of faculty mem-
bers will visit regular Thursday
night fraternity meetings to hold
smaller discussions. In these ques-
tion and answer sessions, the group
will attempt to clear up any basic
misconceptions held by individuals
on various phases of marital re.
lations both physical and mental.
Chairman Regen stressed the im-
portance of these fraternity talks
as paramount to a successful ap.
preciation of the forthcoming ser.
ies by Dr. Hill. Doctors Godcharles,
Puckett, Douglas and Abernethy
will male «9 this group. It is

thought that a more effective se.
lection of sex questions would be
obtained by holding these discus.
sions among small groups of close-
ly associated students.

Held in conjunction with Dr.

Hill's addresses and forums will be
a large and comprehensive bcok

display. All books will be briefly
reviewed by students and available
for purchase.

Backed by the wholehearted sup-
port of nearly" cvery campus or.
ganization, Chairman Regen be-
lieves the conference will serve a
definite and painful need of a clear.
er understanding of what lies ahead
in miirriage for the Davidson stu.
dent.

Unique Liberal Arts
Course Initiated At -
Emory Univ., Atlanta

A program that liberalizes lib-
eral education is found in the ex.
panded division of the humanities
at Emory University. The new pro-
gram, which went into effect as the
fall quarter opened, makes possi-
ble a general culture major without
specialization, ,

According to Dr. Robert Scran.
ton. chairman of the division, the
humanities program is designed for
non-professional students, and can
be a substitute for the demands of
department “majors!’ and “minors”
as found in the ustal A. B. sub-
ject matter schedule. “In the study
we trace the growth of Western
ideals and culture, include art,
music, history, literature, language,
Bible speech, philosophy,”’ explained
Dr. Scranton. Such a background
is the ideal ‘liberal’ education.”

Climax of the new division is the
humanities colloquium, a class that
will be taught like no other on
the campus. Modeled on “Great
Books” courses, the colloquium will
be an informal reading and dis.
cussion group. Dr. Joseph Conant,
who left the Columbia University
faculty to augment the Emory pro-
gram, declares that students will
read novels, drama, philosophy, in
typical great works of the ages—
Homer, Dante, ‘ Shakespeare,
Goethe, Proust—covering about
twenty books each quarter. The
colloquium will meet one or two
afternoons a week, and examina-
tions will be oral,

—
