Bo Roddey wiped "|
grimy hand on _ his
sweat - stained shorts!
and fidgeted with the
end of his racquet in
the green grain of the
all-weather court. He'd
just trimmed Sir Der-
rick 6-1, looking very
sharp at times and then
not looking quite like
the Roddey he has been.
‘Td realiy rather it
didn’t come now,’’ he
said. ‘‘It’s just not
quite the time for it.
You know what 1]
mean,"’

By BILL WHITE

You realized that the boyish face wasn't wearing a dead-
pan mask out of modesty. It was more a stern, serious, almost
worried countenance that made you say, ‘‘I believe you really

Wildcat Svorts

FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1950

Cinders End Season|SOUTHER

THE DAVIDSONIAN

With Impressive Win AFTER GRUELLING OPENERS,

Over Clemson Tigers

By DICK LILES

The track. season at Davidson
closed in a blaze of glory for the
Cats of Coach Pete Whittle as
they avenged the Tigers of Clem-
son for a defeat last year by walk-
ing away with a 6814-614 decision.
It was their fifth win in seven

MOVE INTO FINALS TOMORROW

By BILL WHITE
Some the survivors of as many as three singles and one
doubles matches under a sizzling first round aun, the field in the
annual Southern Conference tennis tournament moved through
the quarter and semi-final play here this morning and afternoon

‘‘Biggest Show On Earth”
On Our Courts Today

PAGE THREE

N CONFERENCE NETS, |Powerful Wake Links‘ers Stop Cats;

Conference Tilt at Winston Saturday

By WOODY McKAY
Wake Forest’s linksters showed their usual sparkle against
the Davidson clubbers and handily downed the Wildeats, 24-3,
in a Southern Conference match Tuesday in Raleigh. Monty
Hill, Davidson’s No. 1 golfer, matched games with Southern
Champion Arnold Palmer. Monty came through with a 69 for
the cighteen holes, but Palmer

. ’ : ’ ¢ . ”
mean it, Bo. Just don’t think you’re on it solid, do you? meets for this year, the losses being

to strong South Carolina and Wash-
ington .& Tee cindermen.

Again it was Pulaski’s and now
Davidson College’s Tommy Hafler
that was the big gun for the locals.
Haller captured firsts in the pole
vault with a 11-foot leap and the
220-yard. low hurdles. Also to his
credit were the thirds in the 120-
yard high hurdles and the broad
jump. He collected a total of 12
points for the afternoon.

The closest race of the afternoon
was the dead tie over the high hur-
dtes by Davidson's Bill Pritchett
and Jim 7Fownsend of ° Clemson.
Pritchett got off to a good lead.
but Townsend pulled up rapidly to
cross the finish line in a perfect
tie at 15.1 seconds.

Joe Miller, the Charlotte Jamior.
helped us fittish strong in the pole
vault, javelin, and low hurdles
when he hurled the javelin the
farthest of his career. The toss was
for 171 feet 4+ 1-2 inches. Davidson
grabbed firsts. in the mile, T.
Stockton; high jump, Henderson:
440-yard, Klein; 100-yard, Good-
pasture: broad jump, Cornell; 120
lows, tie with Pritchett; discus,
Vann: pole yault, Haller; javelin,
Miller; and 220 lows, Hatller.

Tlie freshmen tracksters didn't
fare as well in their 67-63 edge by
the Clenrson Cubs, Roy White, the

And he granted you that was the case. He stopped to toss a
ball back to Whit Cobb, then said, ‘‘I haven't won a good match
all spring. I feel like I’ve dropped some that would have helped
us greatly. So let's let it go for the time being, at least.’’

You’d approached Oliver Bo with the intent of picking up
some personal stuff on doing a column on the End of the Rod-
dey Era at Davidson, much as two of our North Carolina neigh- |:
bors have recently and painfully ushered out the Justice and
the Dickey eras. But yoyr principal character had mixed the
whole thing before you started. He figured it wasn't the right
time for such a story. :

You had to have a column and wanted this one. ‘‘Maybe af-
ter the tourney,’ you egged. ‘‘IMaybe,’’ Bo said, and smilingly
added, ‘‘ Wait’ll we see how we do in the tournament !’’

‘As any fool can plainly see, we haven't waited until after
the tournament. This is an in-the-family story. This isn’t one for
boss Jo-Jo Thigpen’s department, one to be mailed to papers over
the Carolinas. This is just for us here at old D. C. to read and,
I hope, remember. So I truly don’t think:there'll be any extra
pressure applied to Bo, and certainly every word said is de-
served. Now for this ballyhooed colyum.

This weekend does mark the end of the Roddey, Bo-Oliver,
Era at Davidson College. Four of the finest tennis years David-
son has known havé been synonymous with the collegiate career
of this Mr. Tennis in his native North Carolina. Only ten de-

lo advance into tomorrow afternoon’s finals.

The heat and terrific competition
took its toll quickly of members of
the record field who could not stand
the pace. After yesterday's action,
Davidson still, had its three top
men to go into the quarter-final
competition this morning, pacing
the loop in singles’ representatives.

The Cats’ No, 1 ace, Bo Roddey,.
advanced by way of three singles
victories and atso moved along in
the doubles with No, 3 man Whit
Cobb. Big Teddy Keesler, never
sharper, knocked teammate Allan
Strand out of the running in a
match which “pitted the two late
yesterday afternoon, Ted's power
overcoming the game and dog-tired
sophomore, 6-3, 7-5,

The two-top. seeded — entrants.
North Carolina's brilliant Clark
Taylor, and William) and = Mary's

Howie Atwater, also waded through
three singles and a doubles match
on Thursday to continue toward
the finals iis expected.

Top matches on tap for this
morning pitted Taylor against Ted

Keesler: the number two men of -

North Carolina and William and
Mary. respectively, Charlic Rice and
Tommy Boys. the latter the three.
set victor over Carolina’s Don
Skakle in a marathon thriller, 4-6,
6-0, 6-4; William and Mary's At-
(Continued On Page Four)

Derrick’s Knights
Jab Generals, 9-0

By JIM FARRAR

The Davidson tennis team
warmed up for the Southern Con-
ference Tournament ‘here — this
week-end by defeating ‘Washing-
ton and I.ee Wednesday afternoon
by the score of 9-0. Washington
and Lee did not offer much re-
sistance, as the Wildcats won
every set in the singles matches. ~

The regulars were not called
on to play the doubles, and the
lower men came through in fine
fashion to sweep the match. The
team has three more matches after
the conference tournament. They are
all to be played here on the campus,
two being with Mexico, and one
with Cincinnati,

The results:

Roddey (D)
(W&L.), 6-0, 6-0.

Cobb (D) def. Bouldin W&L),
6-3, 6-3.

Strand (D) def. Knudsen (W&L)
6-1, 6-0.

Fanjoy (D) def. Mobr (W&L),
6-0, 6-1.

Keesler (D) def. Segar (W&L),

def. Rockwell

3-0. Best ball:

dropped in a 68 total to take the
low mark of the day.

Worsham and Edens made clean
sweeps of their Davidson opponents
and collected six points in doing
so. Sloan, Vernon, and Cooper man-
aged to squeeze out 1-2 point each
for the low scoring Deacons to
add to Hill's one point gain.

Both teams were keeping in the
swing of things so as to be ready
for the conference tournament to
be held at Old Town Club, course
in Winston-Salem on Saturday, May
13. eWake Forest\and North Caro-
lina University alent to be
the teams to beat this tourna-
ment, while Duke University will be
there to defend their last year’s
title,

The individual big guns will prob-
ably turn out to be Palmer and
North Carolina's Harvie Ward, na-
tional intercollegiate champion. Da-
vidson’s Monty Hill is also ex-
pected to give competitors a run for
their money, because he has been
playing well recently. The whole
Wildcat ‘varisty will try for the
team title against all other con-
ference competition.

Summary for the Davidson-Wake
Forest match: — ;

Palmer (WF) over Hill (D), 2-1.}
Worsham (WF) over Mclean (D),
Wake Forest 3;
Davidson 0.

(Continued On Page Four)

Chesterfield
Sports Quiz

1. Who recently became the first
golfer in histoty to win the Masters
three times?

2. What American League out-
fielder is a California policeman in
the off-season winter months?

3. Including the rider of this
year’s winner Middleground, how
many aporentice jockeys have won
the Kentucky Derby? -

4. Who is the fighter Ezzard
Charles is slated to meet June 7 in
Buffalo, N. ¥., for the NBA’s
heavyweight crown? ,

5. What two events did members
of the Southern Conference’s North
Carolina track team win in the re-
cent Penn Relays?

RULES

1. Print your answers clearly on
the back of a Chesterfield wrapper,

2. Take your answers to Frank
Perrin in 12 West.

3. The first three correet entries
will cach receive a cartoon of Ches-
terfield cigarettes.

4, No entries will be accepted lat-
er than 24 hours after the Davidson.
ian is circulated.

5. This contest not open to meme
bers of Davidsonian staff.

feats over a four period span. Those ten come from an agegre-
gate of over 100 matches from frosh-to-senior competition.

There has been something magical about. the presence of Bo
these four years. We’ve put him up on a kind of pedestal —
someone who wears the old Red and Black whom we al? point to
with pride; someone still to boast of when we blush on hearing
comments on our failures on other athletic fronts. It is a hard
thing to say, considering some of the splendid athletes we have
had in the past four years, but I believe that Bo has been the
most outstanding nationally of any performer Davidson has had
during his stay here.

Fifth ranking singles’ player in the South for the past two
years is certainly pretty strong support by the Southern Lawn
Tennis Association to the high opinion we have of the little guy
who edited our football program, did our cheerleading, and kept
the basketball team running with his live-wire antics. Check the
fellows Roddey’s lost to this year, and you’ll find most of thetn
from another country or above the Mason-Dixon. That still
validates his southern ranking.

But Bo isn’t presently concerned with his southern ranking
alone. In tennis, you don’t just draw a line at the Mason-Dixon,
for example, and confine your victories to fellows raised on
beans and con-pone. Bo proved he wasn’t satisfied with that in
his terrific three-set loss to Pancho Gonzales two summers back.
That was the summer following his sophomore season, an unde-
feated season, by the way.

Now, this week end, Bo is anxious to assert supremacy in
the Southern Conference circles. That is what was back of his
worried countenance Monday afternoon. That is why he said,
‘*It’s just not quite the time for it.’’ He felt that first there were
the very difficult hurdles labled Taylor (NC) and Atwater
(W&M) to be taken before he should receive the victor’s
wreath.

Win or lose this weekend, Bobo is still king on our campus.
He will remain in our minds Mr. Tennis for years to come. This
has been,as we said it would be, just a frank, personal, family
talk. Maybe too frank. But we think we’ve got in a quotation
the epitomy of Davidson’s four-year feeling toward Bo Roddey:
The speaker? Any Davidson student, faculty member, or friend.
‘*Match isn’t over yet, but Bo won.”’

Kastman Again Big Gun for Kittens,
Hurling 6-4 Revenge Over Wolves

By MAC RICHARDS
In their return game with Charlotte Tech High School, the
Davidson freshmen squared things at one game apiece by hand-
ing the Wolves a 6-4 defeat. The winning pitcher was Paul
Eastman, while Robert Sweet was credited with the loss. The
‘Wolves 6uthit the freshmen, but Tech pitchers walked 11 Wild-

kittens, while Eastman gave up only —
three bases on balls. third on Buddy Ross’ inside-the-
The Wildkittens jumped to a first| park home-run. The Wolfpack
inning, 2-0, lead without a base hit.| sided one more in the seventh.
Two walks, an eehins en wit Davidson took the lead in thé
Puech tied it up in the bottorn half fourth when an error, a walk, and
of the first and went ahead in the! a hit gave them two. Single runs

stocky Wurdler from Genosea, IIL,
captured firsts in both hurdle events
and a second in the broad jump
for a°H3 point total. The Frosh cap-
tured firsts in the hurdle events,
880-yard (a tie between Bob Hen-
ry and George Nickels), 220-yard
won by “Crow” Calhoun, the broad
jump, a tie in the pole vault, and
the mile won by newcomer to the
team Kennett Smith. The mile re-
lay was won on forfeit by the Kit-

r tens.

Hapless Baseballers
Socked By Duke, USC

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

The Davidson baschall team
wound up the season May 6 and 9
with hard-fought losses to Duke and
South Carolina. Duke was the vic-
tor by an 8 | score, while the Game-
cocks of Seuth Carolina won by a
score of 8-b.

Jerry Shevick started for the
Duke Blue Devils and went on to
take his first fame .of the season
after a shaky start in which the
Cats got 2 tuns in the top half
of the first inning. Davidson scored
again in the second and were lead-
ing 2-1 in the 3rd inning when the
Blue Devils started rolling. They
piled up 7 runs in the next 5 in-
nings. Davidson got another run. in
the 8th. inning, but Duke fought
off the rally and went on to win.
Davidson got 8 hits whilé commit-
ting 2 miscues while Duke got 12
hits and made 2 errors. Cat short-
stop Charlie Pearson continued his
belting against Duke with two safe-
ties. Davis, the Duke center field-
er, collected 3 hits.

The South Carolina Gamecocks
coasted to an 8-1 win behind the
S-hit pitching of Jim Camp. Lead-
ing 2-1 going into the last half of
the 6th inning, the Gamecocks éx-
ploded with a 6-run barrage in the
6th, 7th, and 8th innings. Davidson's
run came on 2 walks and an error in
the 3rd frame. Hal Mapes and Mac
Erwin had 2 hits apiece for the
‘Cats, while Rogers led the South
Carolina hit parade with 3 safeties,
Three other players collected 2 hits

apiece. [Lefty Hunter of Davidson

went all the way and was the loser.

This closes out an unsuecessful
season for the 'Cats, but there will
be a goodly number of letter-men
returning for next season's team
that can supply the needed exper-
ience for a winning team.

were added in the fifth and sixth.
The victory closed the season

for Coach Boyd Baird's frosh.
The scoring:

Davidson Frosh -. 200 211 000—6

Tech 201 000 100—4
Eastman and Downs; Sweet,

Medlin, McWhiter and Horne.

eee ween ees

(Continued On Page Four)

SINSS

A topacholar and ROTC Honor Graduate
Cadet Lt. Col. Nathan Adams ‘enjoyed
his final military ball in 1940, soon left
for Fort Sill’s Field Artillery School.

accep

Within months Adams wasoverseas, flying

Major Nathan Adams, Auburn GO
Personnel Manager, US Mir lorce =

Following a three month couree, Lt.
for him, Hoapplied forqaler Gomes ee

him. He applied for pilot trai was
ted, proceeded to Maxwell Field.

V-J Day came, and Adams decided to

» “At
‘y !

we age

,
OMe

‘He won his wings and reported to the 36th
Fighter Grou es Puerto Rico, The group
soon returned to the States, giving Adame
a chance to marry his college sweetheart.

Now a regular Air Force Major, he heads

“‘rhubarbs’’ (missions against enemy make the service a career. He choose - i i i %
transport). He flew 63 P-47 missions with- sonnel work as his career field, was as Rese "He advises his Comenedine One
in seven months, returned to the States for training to the Adjutant Gen- on selection, assignment and promotion of

late in 1944 for rest and recuperation,

U. Ss.

eral’s School at Fort Oglethorpe, Georgia.

if you are single, between the ages of 20 and 2614,
with at least two yeors of college, consider the many
coreer opportunities as a pilot or navigator in the
U. S. Ale Force. Procurement Teams are visiting mony
colleges and universities to explain these career
opportunities. Watch for them. You may also’ get full
details at your nearest Alr Force Base or U. S. Army
and U. S. Als Force Recruiting Station, or by writing to
the Chief of Stoff, U. S, Alr Force, Ath Aviation Codet
Branch, Washington 25, D. C.

AIR FORCE

all officers and airmen in the co

ONLY THE BEST GAN BE AVIATION CADETS!

a = eee
