PAGE TWO ,

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ..--. ..------- BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER ...-------- seccessecee---- BILL HOUCK
EDITORIAL STAFF ;

Associate Editor ...---...-....---------------------------- Doug Hix

Associate Editor Lonnie Turnipseed

Associate Editor tack Hazard
MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bit] Cumming, Hartley Hall,
Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister,

Sports Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors — Dan “McKei-
Art Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling.

City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor-—Watt Teffries

wee awe ee nn oe coe mew nw es cee sees esen

Photographs --------- ee semen eee ene neee Ed_ Richardsow
Assignments Asst. wee ena nn cee ce cece en edewne nen ee eens Watt Jeffries
Proofreader ..-.-.-.------- ..----  . ----------+------ Charlie Baldwin
BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager .--.-----.....-- ...- Bill Cassells
Advertising Managers --...-------------- ~ Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.

Circulation Manager .-------------—----------------- Hugh Huffaker
Asst, Circulation Managers —..--.--. Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager -..---- ecwaecencccnccenwenecconcee ~. John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager -- mncnnnncevccsnene---- Alex Goley

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSUN PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Thank You, Dr. Godcharles

In his Chapel talk on Thursday, Dr. Godcharles brought
out a point which we consider to be of paramount significance
to the Davidson Student Rody. Unless we have misinterpreted
his remarks, the essence of Dr. Godcharies’ talk was that as
‘future candidates in an increasingly competitive field, we are
at a disadvantage when compared with university and technical
school graduates in. that we do not acquire the same degrec of
fundamental proficiency along intellectual lines that is oU-
tained by the university and technical school graduates slong
the lines of their particular endeavors.

This is not an original idea—as Dr. Godcharles was care-
ful to point out—but he did succeed in presenting the matter
to the student body from an original angle.

It was further stated that the reason we do not acquire a
comparable proficiency is because we do not practice the pro-
cedures of intellectual give and take in the classroom and in
our extracurricular activities. Although this: may appear to be
an over simplication of the issue involved, we believe that it is
at least an accurate analysis of our most serious short-coming
as students. The fact that during the past six months we have
heard ‘or read numerous references to our complacency and
our willingness to absorb an education vicariously is additional
proof that this weakness does exist. Dr. Abernathy has been
whistling this refrain all year and he has been joined by a
chorus of, writers whose ideas have appeared on this page many
times in the past.

We also feel that the faculty in failing to encourage the
development of this atmosphere of mental reciprocity in the
classioom is more at fault than it realizes. However, we cer-
tainly cannot escape the fact that we are the people who have
come here to learn. We are the ones primarily who will derive
the benefits from whatever Davidson has to offer. It follows,
therefore that we are the ones who must take the lead in mak-
ing this process a reality. Then when we have succeeded in this
business of learning how to think, we would be faced with the
problem of applying our new-found knowledge to the everyday
situations with which we are confronted—not the situations in
which we find ourselves here at Davidson—we have set be-
havior patterns that take care of those smoothly enough—but to
the affairs and responsibilities we will all assume iwhen we
enter the increasingly competitive fields that await us.

This is a complex subject. We hope we will be able to en-
large upon it later. Eath of us, however, can perform his pwn
enlarging process in the meantime by bringing this thing down
to a personal level—thinking of it in terms of his own person-
ality and his aim in life.

Words To The Wise . .

It is with the hope that this paragraph will come to the
attention of every student keeping an automobile here at Davia-
son that this is being written.

The care with which we have observed the parking areas
and the attention we give to proper driving procedure, both in
the Town of Davidson and about the college: proper is steadily
decreasing. Student ears are continually parked directly be-
hind the dormitories and in non-student parking areas. At
times we do not even display the minimum amount of driving
courtesy and consideration.

The areas from which most complaints arise is the block
extending from the road entering Concord Street behind the
Science Building -down to Woodland Street which enters Con-
cord between the Sample and Thompson boarding houses.

As Concord Road is a public highway, the administration
has made the following requests concerning this area in par-
ticular:

(1) That students who drive cars to meals park as far off
the road as possible. (2) That the requried twenty foot clear-
ance from Woodland-Concord corner be observéd. (3) That
ears not be parked on both sides of Woodland Street. This third
request has been made because when cars are placed on both
sides of this narrow street, it becomes impossible for more
than one automobile at a time to make a passage into or from
Concord Read. In addition, the Imitation of visibility under
such circumstances make this a dangerous practice.

In the event that measures are taken to curb free use of
cars on campus, those of us who drive carelessly and pari
without regard to the rights of others, will have brought such
action about. If we are interested in keeping our present privi-
leges, we must also be interested in the obligations which must
be assumed in relation to these privileges.

REVIEW OF ..

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Howard's Lecture

By SCOTT VERNER.

Mr. Howard Thomas, artist-lec-
turer from the University of
Georgia, painted a thought-picture
in the style of creative art as he
talked to a group of students,
faculty members, and guests Tues.
day night. He. produced the theory
of painting creative art as involv-
ing botlf visual imagery and sub-
jective personality, emphasizing the
value in having no set formula to
direct the progress of such a crea-
tion. To illustrate the inexplica-
ble quality of abstract art, he re-
lated the concise reply of Picasso
when asked to explain a painting,
“You don’t ask a bird to explain
it's song.” He continued the lec.
ture by sketching the value of de-
sign and image, both of which are
devised consciously or wncon-
sciously in the mind of the artist.
Mr. Thomas pointed out the basic
qualities of line, color and texture
and evaluated the use of contrast
in emphasis of pattern and color.
In the use of triangles, a progres
sive or continual movement is set-
up in the components of a picture,
for the visual stimulus doesn’t rest
or stop at a certain point, the line

of motion following a pattern fused
with the elements of the work.
Having sketched into the can-
vas of this listening group the basic
design of his thought-picture, Mr.
Thomas continued by filling in
this picture with’ visual color
panels, the slides of paintings done
by himself and his wife. Skillfully
using the colors. of his personality
and motor gestures, he spread over
and smoothed the texture of the
lecture, He pointed out the direc-
tions of image in the individual
studies and explained, not the con-
tent, but the method. To illustrate,
Mr. Thomas, in showing a semi-
abstract called “a boat and a
turtle,” told about the use of color,

the employing of triangular tops of
waterproof buildings, the line of
motion from the boat and the
turtle and the pattern of a fish
covering the foreground. In
similar manner he showed other
studies and, concluding, put the
finishing touches on his lecture
word-picture, leaving. it to dry in
the minds of the listeners. “

College Rags

in Brief

“, By BILL CUMMING

From Berkeley, California, comes
word that lecturers and teaching
assistants at the University of Cali-
fornia have voted 300 to 1 to with-
draw as a body if any mémber of
their group is discharged for re-
fusing to sign a non-communist
oath of loyalty. The hotly pro-
tested non-communist oath will be
required of all University em-
ployees, who must cither sign or
get out. The affidavit measure has
drawn bitter criticism from Gover-
nor: Warren and many prominent
educators throughout the country.
Warren, who is an alumnus of the
University of California, pointed
out that any Communist would not
hesitate to affix his “lying signa-
ture’ to the oath. Harold W.
Woods, president of Princeton, is
quoted as having said, “If such a
requirement were placed before the
Princeton faculty, they would, I
believe, rebel in the same way.’

The Clemson Tiger this weck
carried a classification of the types
of mail seekers seen in the Clem.
son P. O. Perhaps the types listed
are not unlike some seen on after-
chow trips to our local P, O. The
classification is reprinted in part
below:

1, Just Got a Dear John Type—
This type can usually be identified
by the slow, halting way he totters

Letter to the Editor

Editor, Davidsonian:

For some time now one of the
major complaints against the
Davidsonian has been that of a
lack of a definite policy. In a re-
cent edition of the Florida Times
Union I ran across an editorial
which suggested some ideas for a
Republican ereed which I would
like to pass on to you as a possi-
ble basis for your policy:

I

I—We are for America first if
it is the last thing we do. (But
not for America last if it’s the
first thing we do.)

2—We want Uncle Sam to be a
brother to the world, but think
there are limits to how far he
can go as sister, mother, trus-
tee, swimming coach and global
baby-sitter.

3—We believe there is a difference
between the more abundant lifc
and a clambake held in a room
with multiple mirrors.

4—We hold it impossible to cat an
apple down to the core and have
a grapefruit left.

5—We admit the Man With the
Hoe will never again be ex-
pected to use the implement as
a life hobby, but we think it
possible to abolish the hoe with-
out abolishing the man.

Il

1—We want no part df the idea
that the jukebox is the symbol
of American life, that the pin-
ball machine is the key to na-
tional prosperity and that noth.
ing is dangerous if you look at
it standing on your head.

2—We do not believe a fellow
paying through the nose for
what he will never get is ahead

throygh the lobby and down the
steps of the P. O. He is often shak-
ing his head sadly from side to side
and muttering curses under his
breath to himself. Clenched in his
left hand is a crumpled wad of
pink paper. If he speaks at all,
it is to remark, “Women—bah!
I'm through with ’em.”

2. Never Say Die Type—This
poor fellow never gets a letter,
but he always walks down to the
P. O, right after chow, takes out
his handkerchief, and cleans the
dust .out of the box. If anyone
happens to sce him doing this, he
will grin and say, “Oh well, guess
you can't get ‘em every day.” This
type of. fellow reckons. time from
“the time in October when I got
a letter (which was probably an
advertisement for Hadacol.”)

3. Romeo Type—The Romeo
type carefully checks each of his
letters at the box to see if the
stamp is on upside down and if
there are ‘any amorots initials on
the back flap. Next he puts the
letter to his nose to check it for
perfume. If any letter passes these
three tests, the Romeo developes
a beautiful.expression on his facc
and floats fairly out of the window.
If his letters don’t meet the re-
quirements, he crams them into his
pocket and stalks angrily away.

of the game simply because of
the increasing confusion.

3—We hold to the idea that Abra-
ham Lincoln studying by a log

_ fire, splitting rails for a living
and = demonstratnig _ patience,
tolerance and wisdom all his
life is a better model for Ameri-
cans than Riders in the Sky.

4—We are for better breaks,
greater opportunities, less work
and happier lives; but we re-
main skeptical of the promise:
“I can get ‘em for you whole-

sale.”
5—We believe David Crockett,
Johnny Appleseed, Daniel

Boone, Fremont, Davenport and
Washington more dependable
guides than Donald Duck or
Waltz. Me-Around-Again-Willie,

Ill

1—We deny that the true Ameri-
can is a sponge, and all-day
sucker or a butterfly.

2—We are for more fyn, but we
do not believe that a limousine
he can’t afford, a recreation
program he doesn’t want and
a golf course certified by Con-
gress are aids to happiness.

3—We do not glorify the aching
back, the overburdened shoulder
or flat feet, but we think work
essential, sweat natural and a
little personal concern for the
future advisable.

4—We would like to see a road-
way from cradle to grave
bordered with tulips, paved with
dance floors and lined with fed-
eral pie bakeries, but we are
positive that this is not the
permanent road to
security,

(Continued on Page Six))

lasting

CINEMA
‘ICOMMENTS

By BILL BEATTIE

“MONTANA”
Monday and Tuesday

Errol Flynn, having stayed in-
doors long enough for a brief fling
at. costume drama in “That
‘Fersyte Woman,” has very wisely
returned to the greap outdoors and
his bread-and-butter, the shoot-
em-up Western. Perhaps he felt
that a herd of cows would give
him less strenuous competition for
acting honors than his fellow hu-
mans. The story deals with a well.
worn. theme. The struggle between
sheep and cows for the lands oi
the Old West. Errol is on the side
of the sheep. Fighting against him
(on the cows’ side) is Alexis Smith.
But Flynn, assisted by the plot,
conquers all, cows, cattlemen—and
Alexis. All Westerns have their
redeeming virtues, In spite of the
combined efforts of producer, di-
rector and cast? this one has too.

“CHAIN LIGHTNING”
Wednesday and Thursday

This marks Hollywood's entry
into the field of jet aviation.
Humphrey Bogart climbs into the
cockpit of a jet plane, bites on a
lemon (thus producing his tight-
lipped grin) and the story, moving
more. with the speed of the Wright
Brothers’ original invention than
with that of its subject, is on. He
careens through the air testing new
jets under the watchful eyes of
manufacturer Raymordd , Massey.
Whenever he returns to the ground
he gets a chance for a few test
runs with another fuselage, this
one belonging to Eleanor Parker.
Proving once again the advanced
technology of the miodern age the
planes have it all over the actors,
The flying sequences are good.
The remainder of the cast, always
excepting the visual stimulation
supplied by Miss Parker, should
have stayed on the ground.

“BEAU GESTE”

Friday and Saturday
Hollywood loves its cycles, as
witness the current one dealing
with the race problem. Back in
1939 the movie-industry, then not

so crusade-minded, was rolling out
one dealing with the white man in

Africa. First came “Stanley and
Livingstone” then the British
chipped in with “Four Feathers”

and Paramount, not to be caught

napping, hopped on the bandwagon

with a slambang sort of saga titled

“Beau Geste.” The story deals with

the three Geste brothers (Gary

Cooper, Ray Milland and Robert
Preston) who, cach suspected of
stealing a fabulous sapphire, leave
England—and Scotland Yard—to
see oblivion in Africa with (he

Foreign Legion. There, their
lives are somewhat complicated by
a sub-human sergeant, = char-

acteristically played by Brian Don.
levy,

“Beau Geste” has been reissued,
Paramount perhaps hoping that the

public has remembered its more
vivid scenes (a desolate desert
fort, manned only by, dead
men) and has forgotten its trite
story and only average acting. It’s
recommended as a good way to
kill two hours for those unfor-
tunate enough to be stuck on cam-
pus Saturday night.

TEN TIMELY TOPICS

“Reflections: T. S, Eliot,”
March 6, 1950.

“A Streamlined State Department,”
Graham H. Stuart,” Current His-
tory, February 1950.

“Arms and the Germans, 1950,”
Telford Taylor, Harper's, March
1950.

“What's Behind the Farm Policy
Mess?” Business Week, March
4, 1950.

“Toward a Spiritual Community,”
Alan Paton, Christian Century,
March 8, 1950.

“Scientific Convictions and the
Free Society,’ Michael Polanyi,
Bulletin of the Atomic Scien-
tists, February, 1950,

“The British Election,” Norman
MacKenzie, New Republic,
March 6, 1950.

“How F.D.R. Planned to Use the
A-Bomb.” Look, March 14, 1950.

“The Hydrogen Bomb,’ Louis N,
Ridenour, Scientific American,
March, 1950.

“Armed Forces: According to
Plan” (discussion ‘on Admiral
Sherman and how much it is
worth to be ready), Time, March
13, 1950.

Time,

2 wm

Another dance week-end has
come and gone, leaving ‘the usual
number of broken hearts, empty
souls, and depleted bank accounts.
This isn’t a column for the love-
lorn,:so I won't go into the mat-
ter of hearts and souls, but it
might be significant, perhaps, to
look into the hollow void of the
average Davidsonians bank 4c-
count,

“Where has our money gone,
what did it get us?” wail the stu-
dents remorsefully, and, as usual,
no statement whatsoever has been
released by the Pan-Hellenic Coun-
cil regarding the profit or loss of
the last dance week-end. All we
students know, to our undivided
joy, is that we heard and saw a
“name” band go through its va-
rious contortions for two nights
and an afternoon. If we happen
to be fraternity members, we paid
for the contortions whether we
saw them: or not, becayse all
dances of import (Homecoming,
Midwinters, Spring Frolics) are
technically fraternity dances, and
any deficit must be made up by
the social fraternities on this cam-
pus. —

Something is decidedly wrong,
Either we don't have the right
spirit for dancing, or we don't go
(but get charged anyway) because
the | prices are too high, but the
fact remains that there has: been
a deficit (in that fraternities have
had difficulty meeting the eighty-
five percent rule) for nearly every
dance in the Jast several years.

Honesty is the best policy, par-
ticularly self-honesty, and we all
know that this is not a college of
multi-millionaires. Let’s wake up to
the fact that here are a lot of
zood bands available in this part

Dance Week-end
Debacle

By TOM ABEL

of the country, bands which we
can honestly afford, capable of
furnishing fine, danceable music
at considerably less cost than the
large “name’ bands we have been
importing lately.

I'm fiot criticizing “name” bands
as such, but if we're going to dole
out from three to six thousand dol-
lars which we don’t really have, we
ought to get a good one. It's stupid,
and nothing short of stupid, to pay
for a “name” when we're not get-
ting the type of music we like to
go along with it.

There is a way, however, by
which we could conceivably haye
one big band a year and not te
cheating ourselves. If two smaller
bands were to play twice a year,
with the “name” saved for Home-
coming, say, the proportional drop
in cost would attract more stu-
dents, which would mean more
tickets sold, and a reasonable profit
could be realized, a profit. that
could be used to defray expenses
for a large band - the following
Homecoming. By such a system,
even if the big dances were not a
financial success, there would still
be a smaller deficit to be pro-rated
among the fraternities and mem.
bers. As it stands now, any fra-
ternity member who isn’t coerced
into going to a dance is a self-
made martyr, having to pay
through the nose anyway.

Let’s not worry about how the
“Joneses” of other colleges and
universities are getting along,, let’s
just get the best music we can
for our money and make ends meet
instead of fooling ourselves about
what a “socially successful’ cam-
pus this is. After all, success is not
measured in terms of money or
paper-thin social platforms. ‘

t

‘“BIKO”

By KURT BIEDENKOPF

(Continued From Last Week)

It therefore will be necessary,
also to apply a foreign policy that
will enable us to have some influ-
ence on the future development oth-
er than by military power.

Tt was said before, that a third
kind of collision, also not in the cor-
rect sense of the word, would be
the evolutionary development. To

fuse an example, the two bodies,

which are approaching each. other
with a very high speed have to be
caught in a net, in order to prevent
their collision. This net has to be
provided by the policy-making part
of the government, It must be the
task of foreign policy to prevent a
collision and to try to guide the
development into the channels of
evolution, by following a clear lined
policy, trying to leave the defensive
position in favor of one of offense
or better determining one, yet avoid.
ing as much as poésible any kind
of friction, I admit, that this task
is probably the most difficult one a
government ever had to face, but
we must be aware that it is the

fonly way to save as much as pos-

sible. A war would mean the total
destruction of the entire setups of
both the envolved nations or rather
societies, and would thus make it
necessary to create a completely
new form, if any, which would
amount to the same thing as start-
ing from a new beginning.

We have thus far gone out from
the assumption that a_ collision
will occur within the near future
of human history, without spend-
ing much attention on whether this
callision has already started in
some form or another.

Explosions, like ones discussed

<a
».-

in this theme, however, do not
occur suddenly and without any
signs of preceding developments.
The French revolution, for ex-
ample, was preceded by a long time
of interior struggles and theorcti-
cal batles between different ideas.
If we now say that. we are about
to witness another of these col-
lisions, then there already must be
signs of development in both oi
the extreme socities, which point
toward such ‘a collision or toward
its result: a new society,

If examining the latest develop-
ments in America as well as in
Russia, we find this theory stated.

‘Most obvious in America is the
trend towards a mild form of
sacialism that results from the in-
ability of the capitalistic setup’ to
solve vital social and economica!
problems. The government, in its
effort to control the situation is
being more and more involved with
functions, that were up to now the
only resort of the individual. Plan-_
ning and master-planning forms of
government control over the na-
tion’s economy are extended to 2
larger percentage. The actual eco-
nomical freedom of the individual
suffers through this development.
The Federal form of government,
which was established to protect
the individual from too powerful
a government, is more and more
substituted by a strong and exten-
sive central government. Although
all these developments seem to be
within a beginning status, they are
nevertheless present.

In Russia, on the other hand,
the idea international communistic
society, or. better, its idea, has in

(Continued on Page Six))

' THE POLL CAT

By PAUL B. GUTHERY

QUESTION :

Do you read the Davidsonian, and if

so what page to do you prefer?

Percentage Reading
The Davidsonian
97.4 pet.

Percentage Not Reading
The Davidsonian
2.6 pct.

Pages preferred by readers:

Sports Page ----.......-..--.---.-.---- 51.4 pet.

Front Page

. 21.2 pet.

-Editorial Page ....:...-........--._--- 14.3 pet.
Feature Page and Fraternity News -..... 2.5 pct.

No Opinion -

aconeeee 10.6 pct.
