PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1986

THE DAVIDSONIAN

EKLY THROUGHOUT THE
OLLEGE YEAR

PUBLISHED

EDITOR IN CHIEF BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINBSS MANAGER ....-..------------------ BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor ..-----..._...-~-------.---~--------+-+--- Doug Hix
Associate Editor ...--------.--..------------------ Lonnie Turnipseed
Associate Editor Jack Hazard

MANAGING. EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall,
Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister,

Sports Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors — Dan McKei-
Ast Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling.

City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries
Photographs -..--.--------—------++------ 22-2222 n= Ed _ Richardson

i te nen n nn nnn nnn nnn en enone nnn ne --- Watt Jeffries
Poe iee Asst mweecenncnceece nnn wenn enneee w---e- Charlie Baldwin

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager ~..-.----.--.-

na---------- Bilt Cassells
Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw

Advertising Managers ---------------------- J
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam _ Faison. tak

Circulation Manager —----------.-...----------------- Hugh Huffaker
Asst, Circulation Managers —----.... Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager .--..---.--—------ eoaccee. John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager -.----. .. Alex Goley

Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Frolics Queen

We would like to urge all members of the student body
to submit an entry to the Spring Frolics Beauty Contest.

The idea of a Frolics beauty queen arose in an attempt
to enliven interest in and anticipation of the last dance set of
the year. We feel that if this event is established as a traditional
feature of our Spring dances that not only will the students
themselves more thoroughly enter into the activities of the
week-end, but our dates will also enjoy the festivities more.
It will help to concentrate student interest in the week-end and
thus make it more fun for all.

For these reasons we ask that as many students as possible
submit entries now. All photographs should be turned in to Bill
King, 15 Georgia. They will be returned immediately after the
judges’ decision has been announced.

In Closing

Since the time which remains before the new editor and
staff of the Davidsonian is chosen nears an end, we take
this opportunity to express our gratitude to everyone who has
~—during the course of the year—worked with the paper on
editorial or business staff and thereby contributed toward ‘its
success ; .

We very definitely feel that. it has been a success this
year. We resolved last September that the school year, 1949-
1950 would see the beginning, at least, of a trend toward a
more interesting and informative Davidsonian. We, the edi-

tave haliawa that that hecinnine has heen made We hope that
what has been done will prove to be, in faet, only a beginning.

We thank sincerely the managing editors—Arnie Covell, Jim
Murray, Hartley Hall, Neil Leach, Bill Cumming, Bill Hollister
and Tom Mann for having directly made this progress possible.
We thank Gordon Seott for his thorough coverage of sports
during the year. Just as important in the operation and publi-
cation of the paper are the reporters who, by force of their
continued interest and effort, have kept the copy coming in
in spite of reviews, lack of news, and writers’ cramp.

Next week the student body will choose one of our man-
aging editors as the next editor-in-chief. We are happy to re-
port to the members of the student body that a poor choice) —
could not be made.

Pan Hel Policy

With the election by each of the social fraternities of
of their Pan Hellenic Council representatives for next year,
we feel that the time is opportune for a reopening of discussion
on our 85 per cent plan. As most of us know, the 85 per cent ||
‘plan is a device by which the Pan Hellenic Council is assured
a certain amount of income for each dance set. The Council
maintains that in order to plan its dances efficiently and secure
the best dance bands, it must be guaranteed some set amount
as operating capital. No one could deny that the group must
be able to count on some definite sum in order to plan its dance
week-end budgets. However, there has not been a dance week-
end during the year for which—as a result of this 85 per cent
plan—one or more fraternities has not had to pay sums ranging
from ten to seventy-five dollars to the Pan Hellenic Council
for members who did not attend the dances. This means that
this money had. to be prorated among the men who did not at-
tend—either because they didn’t want to or because they were
unable to and these men received nothing in return for their in-
vestment.

The fact that each fraternity is required to pay for tickets
for 85 per cent of its members in order that we can have a
‘‘name’’ band once or twice a year, when all 85 per cent of
the fraternity men don’t care whether they're dancing to a name
band or not—doesn’t make sense.

In view of this situation, and since it is true that some
sum must be guaranteed the Council, we propose that the amount
be reduced to 75 per cent. If this is done, it will work far less
hardship on the individual fraternities and at the same time
the Council will-be assured of an overall income only slightly
less than at present. Since there is to be an eleventh fraternity
on the campus next year, it is obvious that the Council will suf-
fer little reduction of income. Seventy-five per cent of 550
men is only slightly less than 85 per cent of 500 men—assum-
ing an average of fifty men per fraternity. Thus, the individual
fraternities will be required to pay for only 75 per cent of
their members and this figure will more nearly approach the
number of students—on the average—attending the dances.
Ne one then would have to pay for something he never re-
ceived.

We would like to ask the fraternities to consider this mat-

ter and determine whether or not they are in accord with our
views.

|bers Auditorium.

- FAMOUS LAST WORDS~
“—— COURSE NE WON'T GIVE US A WRIT,
VUE GOT THAT GUY FIGURED—”

te £76 LES SERS

Concert Review ,.. x ’

Mary Elizabeth Freeman, Violinist

By HENRY E. HANSON
spirit and was one of the most en.

joyable works of her program, It
suffered only slightly from the ‘in-
ability, mentioned earlier, to stay
on pitch. The Six Rumanian Folk
Dances by Bartok were beautiful-
ly played. The, dances themselves,
particularly the fourth and sixth,
were full of folk feeling and_pre-
sented Bartok in a new vein from
that to which we have become ac-
customed. The Bloch Nigun (Im-
provisation), was an extremely
modern work, haunting and beauti-
ful because of its dissonances and
was perhaps the best played num-
ber of the evening.

The last two numbers, Pan-
tomine from El Amor Brujo and
the Ritual Dance of Fire, both by
De Falla, were very well done. Her
final encore, the March from the
Love of Three Oranges by Prokof-
icff, was beautifully played.

In commenting on the attend-
ance, it was not up to the last
concert, but it might be said that
even a hundred or two hundred
might lool quite Lonaly in Cham.
bers. Perhaps it would be best
to hold such concerts, in cases
where the audience is uncertain,
in Shearer, Phi, or even in the
“Y” lounge. There is nothing so
disheartening as a handfull of peo-
ple trying to sound fike standing
room only in their applause and, to
the artist, the situation which has
always been characteristic of such
recitals in Chambers cannot but
have a dampening effect on the
execution itself,

On Wednesday, April 12, at 8:30
p. m., the Gamma Kappa Chapter
of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Frater-
nity presented Miss Mary Free-
man, violinist, in concert in Cham.
Miss Freeman
presented an interesting and varied
program which ranged all the way
from Vivaldi to Bartok. -

Technically speaking she is an
excellent violinist. In such matters
as trills, glissandos and the actual
physical manipulation of her vio-
lin she was most competent. In
her interpretations she displayed
an evident understanding’ of what
she was playing which showed that
her ‘acquaintance with her selec-
tions was more than superficial. In
this matter of interpretation she
excelled in the contemporary works
she played, a characteristic which
ésems to be common among the
younger artists of the day. Her
playing was marred, however, by
an inability to maintain even tones
which, at times, detracted greatly

from her playing. Also, occasion-
ally tae ce *-ccoume terote ead on

high notes, strained.

The Sonata in A major by Vivaldi
was an excellent selection. It was
well played and the expression
made lucid the chamber style of
this early work. The Brahams’
Sonatensatz (Scherzo) was an ex-
tremely attractive work, vigorous,
yet lyric and provided an appro-
priate finish to her first group.

The first movement, Allegro non
troppo, of the Lalo Symphonie
Espagnole was played with great

er

The
New South

By GABRIEL LOWE

a ON

SF

The antagonist of the South has
long used as his major arguments
the violation of the rights of the
Negro and the acts of violence
committed against him (specifical-
ly lynching), when he has no means
of redress. Great weight was added
to his argument in the spring of
1947 when a score of taxi-drivers
in Greenville, S. C., confessedly
guilty, were acquitted of the bestial
beating and murder of a Negro.
That case was given great pub-
licity, actually more than it de-
served perhaps, and the reaction in
other parts of the nation was to
drag the South lower in the esteem
of people everywhere, Even to na-
tive Southerners who have pride
and respect for the South, the in-
explicable and indefensible action
of that South Carolina jury was a
source of deep mortification and
shame.

But there have been numerous
cases which received little or no
national publicity in which the per-
petrators of the crimes were appre-
hended and duly punished. One
example is the recent shooting of
an old Negro in his cabin by two
white men, who robbed the cabin
and terrified a fifteen-year-old boy
into staying in the cabin in silence
for some hours, but who were
speedily caught, tried and punished.
Last week, however, no less an an-
tagonist than Life Magazine ran a
two-page article on “Mississippi
justice” in the murder of three Ne-
groes by a white man. Life was re-
luctantly forced to admit that
“Even when a... Negro... tes.
tified against the white defendant
«.. the audience of 800 kept quiet,”

fb %

aa

and then continued in the same
tone to say that “There was, no
rabble rousing at the trial, al-
though it was black vs, white in
the heart of Mississippi.” Life
closed tho article by saying that
“Other Southern juries have in the

pa: onths stood up to the prob-
lem of justice for the Negro,” and
cited ¢ rief instances.

Now, when an article like that
is printed in Life it can mean only
one thing: That there is so much
fire in evidence that Life is forced
to admit the presence of a little
smoke. It means that the South
is beginning to take herself in hand
and to eliminate much of the
prejudice and suppression with
which the Southerner has tradition-
ally regarded the Negro. It means
that the Negro is being gradually
educated to take his place as a use-
ful citizen in Southern society. And
it means that the white man_ is
being educated to regard the Negro
as a potential citizen of value and
to accept him as such. The old
generation is dying out, and with
its death is going ignorance,
Prejudice, and tendencies toward
rabble-rousing and extra-legal vio-
lence. Over the grave of this older
generation will rise a justice that
is no respecter of color.

CORRECTION:

In last week's issue a typographi-
cal error appeared in the following
statement in Dr. Guerrant’s letter
to the editor: “The McMahon plan
appears to me to be basically
sound.” It should have read: “The
McMahon plan appears to me to be
basically unsound,”

College Rags
....-IN BRIEF
By BILL CUMMING

Dawdling on the Job

From S. M, U. comes news that
steel workers there have been dawe-
ling on the job. Labor experts soon
located the cause of thé trouble,
however, and have taken steps to
remedy the situation by asking co

feds to refrain from taking sun baths
.jon the balconies of their dorms.

Said the experts, “It causes the
workmen to dawdle and be less
attentive to their work.” The stecl
workers are part of a construction
crew on an_ eight-million-dollar
project at Southern Methodist.

The Show Must Go On

The Clemson Tiger, editorializing
on the need of an auditorium with
adequate dressing rooms, this week
relates a tale of some interest. The
Barter Theatre Players, who re-
cently presented a spicy French
play on the campus, were directed
to change their costumes from
street clothes in the registrar’s

basement office, since Glemson has

no auditorium and dressing room
facilities, It seems that this room
has sevetal windows which afford
the casual wayfarer an excellent
point of vantage if there happens
to be anything going on inside
which strikes his fancy, The Tiger
relates that no one had seen fit to
shroud these apertures and afford
the visitors what might be called
the veil of respectability. Shortly
there gathered a considerable ag-
gregation of art loving students for
educational purposes, of course.
Says the Tiger, “Though this
gathering was in very bad taste,
it was not exactly like the hazard-
ous misdemeanor of peeping-
Tomery inasmuch as the interested
spectators were in plain view of
of the performers and the air of
surreptitiousness did not prevail.
According to some who got there
early, the actresses were under-
standingly indignant_agt first; how-
ever they soon fell into the spirit
of the thing,.and being the show-
must-go-on-showmen that they
are, put on a burlesque that would
do credit to the most talented. This
of course brough squeals of childish
delight from the audience,”

General Sherman

From =‘ Vanderbilt ~— University
comes a tale of woe. Members of
the local Kappa Alpha Order were
eagerly in hot pursuit of their
deodorized pet skunk, “name of
General Sherman,” when the ardor
of the chase was sharply cooled.
You guessed it. Wrong skunk.

. Here Comes Carolina, lina

The Daily Tar Heel reports that
recently a black convertible full of
Carolinians in the company of
John Barleycorn cruised through
the Duke: campus. The occupants
of the car. were singing at the top
of their voices, “Here Comes Caro-
lina,” and shouting “Beat Duke in
50.” However they received no
response from Duke students dur.
ing the whole time they were on
West campus. Suddenly the bitter
truth dawned on one of the Tar
Heels. Duke was out on spring
vacation.

Letters & People

People are crazy! It takes all
kinds to make a world! How true,
how true, and one of the best ways
we know of finding out just what
kinds of people it really takes is
to read letters addressed to the
editor. We say this without any
fear of contradiction.

There are all kinds of letters,
each one ropresenting some un-
known personality hovering in the
background. These shadowy beings
emerge on paper as ogres, angels,
beasts, and what-nots. Some twist
the language beyond any recog-
nizable form. Some clutch at our
heartstrings. Some are just plain
nasty. Other letters are couched
in careful terms of praise, but,
alas, these are too few.

The letter_writer seems to tend
to flowery language. Indeed, we
received several poems comment.
ing on mercy killing. Most of them
we could understand and chuckle
over appreciatively, but one was
past any comprehension. With a
premonition of proximity to great-
ness, we hurriedly dispatched the
“thing” to the English department.
No word has been received.

But of all the letters we have
received, the one we cherished
most is one that after discussing
at length and with some erudition
a ticklish subject, ended with an
abrupt “Go to hell!”

“We're going,

—Daily Kansan, University of
Kansas,

“BIKO”

By KURT BIEDENKOPF

.
“3 1a
wide one.

He ‘moved to the territory of
the buildings of the United Na-
tions, which at that time had their
meetings in Paris. This territory
was international in its character
and not under the jurisdiction of
the Fyench government. Living in a
small tent on the lawn in front
of the main building and being sur-
rounded most of the time by nu-
merous spectators and admirers,
Davis began to work for the cam.
paign of his new movement, The
controversy with the French gov-
ernment had secured him a ‘con-
siderable publicity and his idea

In recent times newspapers have
announced the return of the former
American citizen Gary Davis to
the United States as a French im-
migrant. I want to take this op-
portunity to talk a little bit about
the reason that made this man who
was a member of the U. S. Air
Force during the war, give up his
citizenship and what he was hop-
ing to reach with this world citi-
zenship.

Tt was more than three years ago,
that people in France began to
notice a man in Paris, who was
planning to establish world citizen-
ship, hoping that he thus could
prevent war, which he feared would) seemed to be successful.
destroy civilization. This man was! Several times he tried to get the
an American soldier, who had wit. | attention of the great council of
nessed the horrors of war and who|the United Nations to develop his

believed to have found the answer]idea to representatives of the
worlds nations. However, he never
succeeded and when he tried to talk
during a sesssion from the gallery,
he was removed by force and the

as how to prevent them in the
future. ,

Gary Davis was assuming that
war was made possible first of all
because of the existence of na-
tions. All through history, — it
seemed to him wars had been
caused by rivairy between different
nations or their governments, by
differences in viewpoints as to which
of them should control the other,
her economical resources or politi-
cal development.

In order to prevent wars in the
future, Davis concluded, it would
therefore be necessary to do away
with nations as known by man up
to present times. Or there would
have to be established one gov-
ernment only that would govern
the people all over the world. Being
the, only one this government could
not fight any other nation, would
have no rivals and worid peace
could be secured.

With the United Nations a des-
perate attempt had already been
made to reach this goal. But it
seemed to Davis that this approach
would be destined to fail because
he believed it to be impossible that
governments would give up their
independence and submit to one
world government. Knowing this,
he. tried to approach the matter
from a different direction. He be-
lieved that a movement like this
one had to have its origin among
the people and that the people had
to force their governments to fol.
low them.

To give this movement an or-
ganization he established the
status of world citizenship and was
the first to give up his national
citizenship in favor of a world-

council threatened to prohibit his

further staying on United Nations’
territory.

Despite all this, Gary Davis went
on calling meetings and speaking
to the masses of the population in
Paris. People not only in France,
but also in Germany and in the
BeNeLux countrics joined his
movement by aspiring world citi-
zenship without, however, denounc-
ing their own nationality. This
compromise had been made be-
cause governments refused. to ac.
knowledge world citizenship as a
legal status.

But as promising this ,start had
been, as depressing was the con-
tinuation of the movement. Seeing
the final goal could not be reached
within a short time, people began
to lose interest and soon nothing
more was heard about world citi-
zenship, The immediate problems in
Europe were too great and too im-
portant as to allow any place for
this far-ranged movement.

Whether Davis has finaly given
up to establish his ideas cannot be
said; it is, however, known that
he tried to regain his American
citizenship and upon refusal was
allowed to enter as a French im-
migrant.

This is in short the story of
another desperate trial to estab.
lish lasting peace and ‘save hu-
manity from destruction, an effort
that ended like so many others did,
unsuccessful and almost forgotten,
but that in my opinion shall not
be forgotten always.

THE SPACE FILLER

By JACK

. The title of this column is prob-

ably the most descriptive label that
any column in this or any other
newspapr has ever had. Though to
fill space is not the primary objec-
tive of this column, it is probably
running a closer second than Ted
Williams’ 1949 batting average. As
yet we haven't figured out what
the primary purpose is but maybe
it will comé to us later on. We
were asked by the managing edi-
tor, Tom Mann, to write something
since all the othe, columnists were
getting wise and giving up. Per-
haps that would imply that the
secondary purpose had just passed
the primary, whatever it may be.

However, for the benefit of those
who are still reading at this point
we will endeavor to present a few
observations for whatever they may
be worth. (We are always assured
of at least two readers: (1)’Tom
Mann, because he is supposed to
read everything that goes on this
page, and (2) Mr, Broyles, the
printer, because he has to read it
in order to linotype it.) So for Mr.
Mann and Mr. Broyles we con-
tinue.

With a pat on the back for
Pete Whittle and a mop of a
wearied brow, we will herein com.
ment on this year’s intramural ath-
letic program. It is the most com-

plete program ever presented at

THE POLLCAT

By PAUL B. GUTHERY

QUESTION: Are you in
favor of conducting Davidson
elections with political cam-
paigns?

62.5 pet.
No ~_.--------...... 3].7 pet.
Indifferent ---..--.... 5.7 pct.

Total .---.--.. 100,0 pet.

HAZARD

Davidson. The new gym has of-
fered facilities for handball and
swimming. Also the additional
basketball courts gave opportunity
for a tournament'as well as the
regular season play. Right now the
extra volleyball courts are seeing
added action which makes for a
rough grind on the participants.
The speed up in volleyball activ-
ity as we understand it is to pro-
vide more time for softball. There
will be less space available for that
sport than in past years.

Now this-program is a fine thing.
It has kept the boys off the streets
and saved the juvenile courts con.
siderable trouble. There has been
no pool hall brawls in Davidson and
street fights have been at a mini-
mum. Frank’s Northside Lounge
hag reported a drastic reduction in
business since the athletically re- .
formed student body is turning a
cold shoulder to his trade. After
all, how can a man drink coca-
cola and still remain in shape for
this strenuous program,

In a serious vein, however, we
do congratulate Pete for his full
program and only pray for a mo-
ment to catch our breath. Possibly
the slower softball schedule will
give us that.

If anyone has read this far we
won't thank him, but will gaze at
him in awe and offer our sym-
pathies. If there is any reader who
has a personal pet peeve or com.
pliment and doesn’t wish to write
about it, he may get it in print by
contacting this deparment. As said
above, we don’t guarantee that it
will be read, but it will be printed
in this corner. We must place cer-
tain restrictions, however: No cam-
paigns for Claude Pepper, beer
halls in the student union, or aboli-

tion of night baseball.
