.

PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF -...-----.------------------ GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ..-----..----------------- JOHN LOFTIN
EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editors ....---------- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor .-.-..------.------------------------- Shelley Beard
Managing Editors ......-.------ Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George

McMurray, Ed Richardson

Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Dick Roper

City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
‘Sports Editor—Bill White

BUSINESS STAFF

Assitant Business Manager ----------------2----------7--°°
Advertising Manager --.--.----------------------
Circulation Manager -.---------------------------------- An fey Moses
Collections Manager ----------------------------------"- Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager -.-..----------------------0------- 0°" Bill Hart
Faculty Advisor -.--.------.--------------------"-

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Davidson, North Carolina °

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C.,
under the Act of March 3, 1897.

What About Our Magazine?

Is the Scripts and Pranks fulfilling its purpose as & col-
lege literary magazine on this campus? As a- result of the ap-
parent dissatisfaction of many students, this is a question that
has been for many years a topic of frequent discussion. And,
it seems to this writer that argument ensuing from the posed
question has often been more irrational than rational, more
comical than sincere, more personal than objective, more un-
intelligent than intelligent, and projected toward ‘‘generating
more heat than light.” Further, this newspaper must accept
much of the blame for such trivial conduct. So it may be said
at the outset that, contrary to some previous policies, this edi-
torial, in the interest of better campus publications, is designed
to present a constructive analysis of the situaton.

In answering the above question, we must define the pur-
pose of the magazine. In the words of the Editor, the purpose
is ‘‘(1) to share with the student body the best literary works
produced on the campus, especially short stories, poems, hu-
morous essays and drawngs; (2) to provide insight - both
serious and humorous into student thinking and student af-
fairs; and (3) to present to outsiders a creditable literary
profile of the student body.’’ In commenting on the statement
of objective, we could say about the first that, while some
writing that could be classified as ‘‘best’’ has not been pub-
lished in the magazine, for reasons both exeusable ‘and inex-
cusable, a major portion of the best composition has been printed.
Concerning the second objective, examination would prove that
the writers have provided commendable insight into student
thinking and affairs. And of the third it could be observed
that the literary aspects of the student body have been very
well delineated. Of course, there is always room for improve-
ment upon any publication, and realizing this, we could sum-
marize our comments by stating that the magazine has well
fitted the pattern of its three statements of objective.

Well, that answers the question but takes us back ‘where
we started. If dissatisfaction with the magazine is prevalent
in the student body, and if we agree that the magazine is ful-
filling its purpose, then the dissatisfaction must exist for a
reason other than the non-fulfillment of purpose.

This provokes a second question: Is the purpose of the
magazine what it should be? This, of course is de-
batable, and for the purposes of our analysis, let us answer
the question negatively. Many dissatisfied students have ex-
pressed the desire for the magazine to confine itself to
humorous short stories, poems, essays, drawings, and jokes.
Thus, the purpose would then be to share ‘with the student
body and outsiders creditable humorous and, entertaining
literary works produced on the campus, deleting all so-called
‘theavy” writing. The writers for the magazine would then
appeal strictly to the ‘“‘light” entertainment of the readers.
Jf expressions in “bull sessions’? may be taken as indications,
many students would like to see such a change. Now this
would leave us ‘with only a humorous literary magazine on
the campus.

‘We should recognize the fact that there is a need for
publication of all types of literary works of the students, and
since a strictly humorous magazine would provide no outlet for
serious writing, another type of literary publication would be
necessitated.

Thus, recognizing the existence on the campus of those
who, dissatisiied with the magazine, would weleome a change
in its purpose, and recognizing the need for an inclusive lit-
erary publication, we would make two suggestions: .
(1) That the Scripts and Pranks confine itself to

humorous literary composition, and,

(2) That the literary societies co-operatively edit and
be responsible for the publishing of a literary
review (either annually or semi-annually), the
purpose of which ‘would be to make available to
those interested students, faculty, administration,
alumni, and other friends of the college a
‘‘ereditable literary profile of the student body.’’

If such steps were taken, it seems that the cause of
creative writing among the students would not-be impeded but
greatly furthered, and the students would have a more gen-
erally acceptable magazine, without reducing its place to that
of 8 lowest common denominator.—J.T.M.

2 E
= &
3 =
2 a> |
3 =k
7 Erase Pe eee se I Pl leaseee

Howe Green

Freshman Farce
By ARCHIBALD HAMENHASH

Slowly the door swings open, and
a dejected figure walks in.

Joe Stoop, sitting in the far cor-
ner at his desk, looks up to see
his buddy, Howe Green, standing
in the doorway.

“Oh, hello, Howe.”

Without answering Howe slug-
gishly drags acress the room to
Joe's side. “Joe,” he says, “I've had
it! I just found out that I flunked
four out of the six subjects I'm ta-
king. Joe, what will my parents say?
I bet they won't even let me come
home for Thanksgiving.

“It’s probably not that bad,
Howe,” answers Joe, pushing back
his chair. “I wouldn't worry about
it too much. I didn’t do so hot my-
self. Dr. Logan gave me a D in
chemistry, and I got two other D's
and three C's.”

“That’s still not like flunking four
subjects,” laments Howe. “I bet
I've got the worst grades in the.
whole school.”

This serious discussion breaks up
when Howe's roommate comes in
with bad news: “I thought I'd find
you here, Howe,” he says. “Dean
Bailey wants you to report to him
right away. He just sent a mes-
senger to the room looking for
you.”

“For me?”

“Yes, and you'd better step on it,
too. The ‘Dean’ doesn’t send a spe-
cial messenger to everybody he
wants to see.”

“Holy Cow,” moans Howe, and
he rushes from the room.

“Come in, Mr Green. Have a
seat. J'tl be with you in a minute.”

So frightened he couldn't speak,
Howe sits down and huddles back
into his chair, trying to look as in-
conspicuous as possible.

Dean Bailey finishes the paper he
is working on and looks up at
Howe. “Mr. Green, your grades
have just been brought to my at-
tention, and I thought a little ‘per-

sonal talk was in order, knowing’| (for such was the station of 0

(Continued On Page Four)

Gingerly the evening sun lowered
its tired self into a bank of damp
oaks, and the late ntists began to
extend eerie pseudopods through the
wet foliage. As the lights began
to flicker on in the various campus
buildings, a solitary figure emerged
from the front entrance of the li-
brary and began to thread his way
among the bricks toward ‘dormitory
row. The night seemed to enshroud
him with a blanket of stealth, and
for some curious reason, a strange
sense of uneasiness crept over him
as he passed the massive facade of
the Chambers building. The gaunt
columns towered, it seemed, to a
point almost out of sight, and the
cherubic figures of the maids
seemd to be transfixed in a gassy
stare.

Then suddenly, the figure
stopped, -his eyes riveted on the
central door. A tall shape was stand-
ing there—nearly as tall as the col-
umns themselves. As the stu(fént

passer-by) stared, it became ap-

ry eS

GEECH’S GOULASH

By PAT McGEACHY

parent that the phantom was an
elderly man, clutching with one
hand the pillar beside him, and sup-
porting his other with a gnarled
cane. And even as the vision ma-
terialized, the cane was raised as
if to strike, and the apparition spoke:

“Hear ye, youth! Hear ye, Hell’s
angel! What is the damnation that
you and your breed have brought
hence? It is sacrilege. Not fifty
years have passed since the strength
of my youth adorned these halls.
Not fifty years have passed since
the voice of my complaint set ut
the standards that thou hast dese-
crated. Where is the soul of this
college? What have you done with
her?

“Where is the dignity of dress?
Where is the dignity of speech?
Where is the dignity of young man-
hood? I see before me the whirl
of automotive dissipation. I see the
uncouth speech of youth the desul-.
tory dress of infidels, and the
screeching of unmannered chimpan-

(Continued On Page Four)

Music with Hansen

&

By HENRY E. HANSEN

Every person, of great renown
or small, interested in the record
industry has felt almost a compul-
sion to express himself and add to

the general barrage of words fly-
ing about the introduction by Co-
lumbia of the LP and by Victor of

the 45. Many have had to eat co-

pious quanties of crow bcause of
irresponsible statements. The pres-

ent writer, unfortunately, numbers
himself among this benighted class
of critics and commentators who,

bewildered by what can only be

termed mass produced idiocy, made

many an idiotic statement. My own
contribution was, early in the bat-

tle, to come out strongly against

LP. Having been badly burned
once, ] retired, at least publicly,

from the fray and waited for time

to give perspective to the chaos
immediately after
Victor’ proud offering of the 45.

which ensued

Before going on let me say that

I now stand firmly on the t.P aad
face my 45 antagonists at a con-
stant speed of 33 1-3 revolutions
per minute. Aside from the many
considerations of economy, quality,
and the sine qua non-cortinuity,
offered by the LP, I believe that

this slower speéd lends a gravity
and scope to my utterance which
is lacking from the more dervish-
like jabbering of my 45 friends.

Personally speaking 1

innovation which Victor, in its ven-

erable position of potentate of the

record industry, sent out from Cam-

den. When the 45 first came out

I was convined that, however ri-
diculous the product might seem,
surely RCA would distribute no-

thing without good and sound rea-

son behind 1t. In this I was wrong.
I made the mistake, under the con-
sequences of which many still la-
bor, of assigning to their engineer-
ing genius the same quality which
stamps their ‘recorded catalogue, a

tlave
“throughout the whole affair tried
to be fair in my judgement of the

— vi

sphere in which Victor reigns su-
preme. Out of all my personal dis-
cussion I found one person with one
point which appeared to be, within
its scope, a strong argument for
the 45. The purpose of this article
is to dispose of this final support
for the many hued 45 and while I
do not hope to convince many
(phonophiles are notoriously fanat-
ic) there may still be a few who,
confronting reason, will be moved
to reconsider even if this entails
the retiring of a comely but still
cumbersome piece of equipment—
the 45 changer.

If you are a devotee of opera,
contended my one logical objector,
then the 45 is the only choice
for this reason: on LP, opera se-
lections are commonly placed on a
12 inch record in bands, as many
as six or seven, and it is difficult,
if not impossible, to play the
one or two bands you may
want to hear at a particular time
without damage to the pickup or
the record or both. This was grant-
ed at the time because Columbia
had made available no changer to
play their own records. Changers
could be had at a much higher
price than the 45 changer, which —
would play all three speeds auto-
matically, but their high price made
the 45 the logical choice to one who
was primarily interested in selec-
tions from various operas. This ob.
jection no longer stands since Co-
lumbia has made available a chang-
er which will play all LP's, 12, 10,
and 7 inches, automatically. In fair-
ness it must be said that Victor’s
opera catalogue is far superior
both in quantity and in quality -to
Columbia's. From this last state.
ment comes the only reason, if you
like opera exclusively or nearly so,
for adhering to the 45. However, I
believe it is downright ignoble of
Victor to force the purchase of the
inferior system on those who be-

(Continued On Page Four)

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS.

Do you think that the present system of class cuts
here at Davidson is an adequate one?

Yes—25 per cent

No—75 per cent

Do you feel that euts should be governed by

grades. ?
Yes—57 per cent

No—43 per cent

Do you feel that a B average should warrant un-

limited cuts?
Yes—50 per cent.

No—50 per cent

An Alumnus Gives His

Homecoming Views

Editor’s Note: The following
letter has been turned over to
The Davidsonian by Mr. Payne
for publication in order that
the Davidson students might
have some idea of the impres-
sion which a Davidson Home-
coming has on an alumnus re-
turning to the campus.

Atlanta 3, Georgia
October 24, 1950
Dear John:

Our trip to Charlotte, suburb
Davidson Home-Coming October
2l1st, meeting some 50 ancient sur-
viving friends, was a never-{o-be.
forgotten emotional experience. En-
closed a small check to offset same
and to be applied to the “Wild Cat”
Fund supplementing the Living
Endowment subscription.

As Captain of the Scrub Foot-
ball team at Davidson in 1912 and
of the University of Alabama in
1914 I got fed up on football and
as the years accentuated old in-
juries, I came to hate the game.

However, the W&L.DC contest
game of last Saturday restored an
ancient enthusiasm. Not only were
the coaching techniques obviously
near perfect, but the heady skill
and raw courage was inspirational.

Davidson, operating under handi-
caps of age, weight, injuries, etc.,
kept turning on relentless pressure
which reminded one of the spirit
of the old Scottish Tournaments as
described by Sir Walter Scott, late
of Edinburgh.

Of course, as an Atlantan, I
took great pride in the spirited play
of Robert Turk, especiall¥ in re-
ceiving short passes, and Auburn
Lambeth in stopping line bucks. In
the old days before forward passes
opened the game, a defensive back
met the runner after taking two
or three steps, The impact was far
less than now.

By the way, I met “Jessie” James,
Class of ‘08, who broke three legs
tackling runners in his Senior

year, 1909. One of said legs being
that of the eminent Physician, Dr.
McKay, now. of Charlotte. 1 saw
this happen in a practice game
while McKay was playing for the
Charlotte Medical College. Later,
in 1919, I met McKay just after he
had been run over by a taxi in
London. He _ complained bitterly
that. its contact was worse than
football.

Also, I met Judge E. M Currie
of Charlotte, 1915, who graduated
(Militaire Certificat) with me at
Sarbonne University in Paris in
1919, where we took all the honors
in sobriety, thrift and modesty. It
was good also to see classmates
Farriar, Matthews, Moore, all of
1912.

I wonder if the youth at David-
son realiee what a privilege it is to
live, even for a short time in a
really friendly environment. As they
live and experience the social clim-
ate of other institutions of learn-
ing which instill everything but
philanthropy, they will come to ap-
preciate the durable satisfaction of
becoming Christmen at Davidson,
where competition is qualified by
cooperation.

Please pass a copy of this along
to Coach Little. I believe he loves
the privilege of handling Davidson
teams even under near penurious
conditions. .

Regards to Brother Jackson and
sympathy to him in the matter of
“Budgets” in an inflationary era.

Hope to see all of you 4own here
on November 25th when Davidson
will show Tech how to win the
hard way. By the way, this Tech
player, “Bubba” Sykes, can surely
crowd back to the goal post and
bullet pass the ball all the way.
Otherwise, their passing is of the
soft variety. “DC” should score
three times, barring further disabili-
ties.

Your friend,
J. L. R. BOYD

SA SSS SS
a Ss Spree? US

WAX SCRATCHING

By BOB WHELESS

Since’ this column began back in
September quite a few fellows have
stopped me on the campus to ask
why I write only about. popular
records. Everywhere I go I am
greeted with jeers of “Knock off
that commercial stuff and write
about some good progressive stuff
by the lesser known bands and ar-
tists.” Now that even my few re-
maining friends sneer everytime |
come within speaking distance, I
have decided to see just what type
music the student body likes best.
To determine same I have taken a
very comprehensive poll of the Da-
vidson Student’s taste in music. To
prevent getting the reaction of only
one element in the school care was
taken to assure that radical groups
were polled and that elements were
included among the royalty of Duke,
the bourgeois of East and even
the proletariat of Rumple. Here is
a summary of the results: ;

In answer to the question “What
type of music do you prefer?”,
popular music received 62 percent
of the votes cast; hill billy, 12 per-
cent; Dixie Land, 11 percent; pro-
gressive, 7 percent; and no prefer.
ence, 8 percent.

When asked if they liked classi-
cal music 62 percent voted “yes”
and 38 perceat “no.” Without having
any definite figures on hand con-
cerning other colleges I would
guess that the affirmative percent-
age on that last question is much
higher here at Davidson than at
most colleges or universities.

The next question was, “Do you
like progressive music?” Progres-
sive here includes everything from
Stan Kenton’s progressive jazz to
George Shearing’s soft, smooth bop.
To this there were 44 percent
“yes’s” and S6 percent “no's”.

To see just how familiar you fel-
lows are with some of the more
progressive artists, you were polled
to determine if you have heard of
a few of the leaders in this field.
As it turned out only about 40 per-
cent of those polled had ever heard
of Charlie Vetura or Dizzie Gelles-
pie, two of the best known names
in the bop field. Less than one-fifth
remembered ever hearing of George
Shearing, one of the newer names
in the bop field, but good enough
to be voted second best small in-
strumental group of the year in
the recent disc jockey poll, and sec-
ond only to the King Cole Trio.

Tommy Dorsey won the favorite
orchestra poll with 28 percent of
the votes cast. Ralph Flannigan
came in second with twenty-one
percent and Sammy Kaye next
with twelve percent. ,

“Who is your favorite male vo-
calist?”, brought an amazing variety
of answers. Perry Como emerging
victor to the tune of 33 percent of
votes cast, Billy Eckstine number
two man with 18 percent and Bing
Crosby third with 13 percent. You'll
be glad to hear that Davidson's
own Louie Runge received the same
number of votes as Vic Damone
in this poll.

Doris Day walked away with top
honors as “best female vocalist”
receiving over three times as many
votes as her nearest contender, Jo
Stafford, who had 18 percent, Min-
dy Carson who held down the num.
ber three spot with 11 percent.

The final question was “What
orchestra would you most like to
have for a Davidson weekend.” You
might be surprised to know that
Charlie Spivak won with 25 per-
cent, Tommy Dorsey followed with
23 percent and Sammy Kaye end-
ed up in show position having 15
percent.

If this poll proved any one thing
clearly it is that there is no typical
Davidson man when it comes to
taste in music. On the whole it
seems that the majority doesn’t
care too much about progressive
music, while the ones who do care
for it are fanatical about it. So to
keep everybody happy, from now
on this column wil contain, in ad-
dition to popular records, all the
latest scoop on progressive music.
Did I hear some “so whats"? Well
just stick with me and I'll write
something you like yet.

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

non-compulsory for all seniors

1. To abolish the double-cut system. .
2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training
regardless of their age.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and
the college at large.
S. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speak-
ere.
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
2 To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.

WIFE HAS

IN FO

CLEANING
MORE
OFTEN!

Cc

To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student

LEANING ad PRESSING
