PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

BOB HOLLISTER
---- BILL HOUCK

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAPF
‘Associate Editor -........----.-----------------.--------- Doug Hix
Associate Editor Lonnie Turnipseed
Associate Editor Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall,
Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, .
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors — Dan McKei-
‘Act Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling.

City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor—-Watt Jeffries
Photographs ..........----------.----------------- Ed_ Richardson
Assignments Asst. ...-..------------------------------. Watt Jeffries
Proofreader Charlie Baldwin

Sees sesame eeeaeeonmowsescweneoeeson

Saw eewe cees ewes ee ew ewes ssoeorooeooosose

See e ewe ewww ewe comes seco ewoowsooooscos

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager ..----
Advertising Managers
‘Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager -...-.-.-...--~------------------ Hugh Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager J ftia
Subscriptions Manager --..----—----..-.-------~------~---
Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North

Carolina, under the act af March 3, 1897.

ao--- Bill Cassells
Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw

eewewesow ew cwoeeouccows

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Congratulations, Mr Scott

All members of the 1949-50 Davidsonian staff join in wel-
coming Gordon Scott as our new Editor — we congratulate him
and wish him every success. As former Sports Editor Gordon
did an excellent job in reporting on college athletics this year.
In carrying out his new job he will need the support not only
of all returning members of the old staff, but also of all mem-
bers of the Student Body. The success of the paper is measured
only in the width of student view it represents.

It seems we have come but a very short distance down the
road to a much bigger and better Davidsonian. The goal we en-
visioned in September is far from the achieved stage. In doing
what we have done, however, the singular dependibility and
resourcefulness of one man have constantly led the way. For
four years the personality of Doug Hix and his willingness to
share in whatever work was.to be.done have materially shaped
the course of the Davidsonian’s progress. Although the Student
Body for the most part does not realie it, we owe Doug more than
a vote of thanks for in a job such as this it is the ability to work
with other students and the talent for being always available for
such work that distinguishes a person such as Doug. He has,
this for, no other reason than his interest in the job, and con-
sequently the paper has been enriched by his loyal contribu-
tion.

We apologize at this time for the items we have printed here
of a trite and meaningless nature. In times past the paper has
been characterized by the inclusion of meaningless material—
copy, used to make the page fill out. Perhaps it would have been
better to have had large amounts of blank space.

The paper has changed this year significantly in two respects
—it has sueceeded in becoming a little more mature and a little
less the high school like publication it has been.

And through the efforts of Tom Mann the editorial page—
page two — has been vastly improved in regard to content and
physical appearance. Tom alone is responsible for the new ideas
and the effort through which these changes have been brought
about.

For the third and last time this is a ‘‘swan song” editorial. In
most works of this nature it is usually in keeping with the latest
journalistic style trend to gaze back through misty, blurred eyes
‘at past accomplishments and old associates — this we have done
—the bright future and the conduct of the affairs of 1950-51
Davidsonian we happily leave in the capable hands of Gordon
Scott.

Close of an Era

On all sides press and radio inform us of the strikes made
in medicine, of daily legislation in our Congress, and by the na-
tions of the world, of new books and theories and inventions
that seem to flow from the inexhaustible well-spring of man’s
ingenuity. Things are changing by the hour and with things
man himself is changing. With the creation of instruments and
materials of wide range ‘and application, man’s ability to think
in broader terms has been enhanced. He thinks less in terms
of his innate right to possess this or that sphere of influence or
action — the Western world at least is coming to feel the deep
rooted, underlying oneness of all men. He not only has begun
to think in terms of the effect of his action on other men but
has even taken faltering steps to improve the lot of mankind on
@ universal scale — and by this we do not mean to imply that
socialism and the welfare state are to be desired as marks of
man’s increased concern for man — those things are indications
only of man’s concern for himself. The change of man’s mental
set, however, that now permits him to think in terms of far flung
projects and that awakens in him a concern about the standard
of living of people half around the world is a new way of think-
Sng. The old old process of fenced in thinking is losing ground—
in its place there is developing a broad horizon process which
if carried through to all men and made part of all nations,
will someday lead the world out of chaos and into the greater
good,

Anne Bardstreet was the author of the first book of poems in
English by a woman. Her work appeared in London in 1650.

Tin Can island is the nickname of Niafou, one of the Tongo
islands in the South Pacific.

In 940 A. D., in Egypt, the 700,000 volumes of the priceless
antique library of Alexandria were burned by order of Caliph
Omar. For six months they were used as fuel to warm the public

; Solo finging in opera was introduced in Florence, Italy, in the

THE DAVIDSONIAN

RIDAY, MAY 5, 1950

In a Broadway theatre, “Bravo.” On a nearby street, “Help.” (EDITOR’S NOTE: Permission for re-
productions of these cartoons from “Out of The Crocodile’s Mouth” by William Nelson has been
granted the DAVIDSONIAN by the Public Affairs Press, 2153 Florida Ave., Washington, D. C.)

Commitment of the YMCA Gift Fund

“The Davidson College Y. M. C.
A. being interested in the efforts of
the citizens of the community in
better housing among the Negro
residents wishes to share in the
financial support of this worthy
endeavor, Each year the students
of the college under the guidance
of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet make
a benevolent gift to some good
cause either in this country or
abroad. This is knowa as “The
Christmas Gift Fund,” in as much
as this special campaign is launched
at the Christmas season.

The Y. M. C. A. cabinet hereby
commits “The Christmas Gift
Fund” of 1950-51 to the promo-

tion of home ownership among the
Negro people of Davidson. For
the past two years the students
have contributed at feast five thou-
sand ($5,000.00) to this fund. It
is the belief and intention of the Y
cabinet that the same amount will
be raised in the coming year. It
is the understanding of the cabinet
that the citizens of the community
will join in contributing to this
fund also under the leadership of
the Citizens Housing committee.
It is understood by the cabinet
that the new houses to be built
under this plan will be supervised
by the Citizéns Housing committee.
The cabinet further understands

that the sum which is raised in
this campaign will be committed
to the supervision of a board of
trustees. This board is to consist
of the secretary of the Y. M. C. A.
the president of the Y. MC. A,,
the president of the Student Body,
Dr. J. R. Hartness, Mr. F. W.
Frederickson. The successors. of
the two business men from the
town (Dr. Hartness and Mr. Fred-
erickson) are to be elected by the
Board of Control of the Y. M. C.
A.
It shall be the duty of this board
of trustees to purchase U. S. gov-
ernment bonds with the “Christmas
(Continued On Page Four)

THE SPACE FILLER

Whenever something new comes
along everyone gets all hot about
it. Then after awhile it cools down
and things lapse back into the nor-
mal. Take this student election af-
fair. It's not a new thing but it’s
new for this year and entirely for
a lot of the student body. The big
yell is up for open campaigns. Cut
out the hypocritical practice of no
one saying a thing in his or any
other’s behalf. Freshmen cry that
they don’t know any candidates.
The election board is shocked be-
cause a candidate breathed. Word
is going around that the constitu-
tion should and will be amended
to fix all this mess.

This being our fourth election,
we have heard this same stuff four
times now, Every year it’s the same
thing — why don’t we campaign?
Why can’t we learn something
about a candidate Who wants the
job and will do best? All this is as
normal at Davidson in the spring as
onions in the milk and Townes Tho-
mas playing half rubber.

And every year there the same
ideas about changing the constitu-
tion to allow open campaigns, coa-
litions, etc. Yet nothing has ever
been done about it. Elections run
their course; the beach, women, and
baseball move in; exams follow and
poof — we have the same election

By JACK HAZARD

system the next year, So far this
spring things seem to be running
true to course — elections arrive;
favorites win; upsets occur; 2-3 of
the student body votes; election
board appeals for a higher per-
centage of voting; new students
don’t know candidates; no one is
happy; and talk arrives about a
change. And everything else is the
same — Townes Thomas is playing
half rubber; the milk tastes like
onions; students are running to the
beach and sunning all over the cam-
pus; Frank’s business js booming;
and baseball games are drawing at-
tention.

Will it still be the same when
elections are over? Will we still
have the same system next year?
Will the present machine (oh, par-
don us, we mean administration)
says that it, won't be the same.
From pretty high up we here it
that there will be an amendment to
the constitution which will change
the voting and campaigning meth-
ods. This is supposed to be put be-
fore the student body next week.
Whether it actually appears or not
will be another thing. We don't
know exactly what this amendment
would provide but we imagine it
will pave the way for campaigns
and coalitions.

Now if this does actually come

From Chapel Hill comes news
of a new type of contest on the
campus, the “Ugliest Man on the
Campus” contest, which is being
sponsoréd by the Theta Chi fra-
ternity. The only requirement for
entrance into the contest are that
contestants must be male students
of the Universty and look as ugly
as possible. Ugly men should have
their pictures taken and submitted
to Don Maynard in the office ot
the Daily Tar Heel. Fearing that
some men might wish to enter the
contest but have no way of getting
their pictures taken, Maynard has
announced that the D. T. H. will
have a camera in its office and will
be glad to photograph contestants.
The winner of the contest will
be announced at the Blue-White
carnival on May 6th. Mr. Ugly
will have a date with Miss Modern

{Venus and an evening at the Ter-
race View. He will also be award-
ed an outfit of clothing from
Chapel Hill merchants.

Students at the University of
Miami are having a soft touch in
at least one class. The University
is offering a three hour credit
course in automobile driving. The
course, which is offered only to
last semester seniors and -to gra-
duate students, comes complete
with exams. A car with dual

College Rags
: in Brief

y BILL CUMMING

va B

controls has been presented to the
school for this course and examina-
tions will be taken on machines
bought from the American Auto-
mobile Association. The main pur-
pose of the course is decreasing
the hazard of poor drivers.

In the CAROLINIAN of W. C.
we notice that U. N. C. men re-
cently received a mass flush from
members of the fairer sex in
Greensboro. Freshman and sopho-
more escorts awaiting their dates
in Chapel Hill were ‘left ‘empty
handed to saunter off to the Rams-
head.* The W. C. Social Planning
Gommittee was forced to call off
a dance week-end at the University
when only thirteen girls bought
tickets to attend the dance in
Chapel Hill.

The DAILY TAR HEEL last
week -announced an acute water
shortage in the Chapel Hill-Carboro
area. University officials voiced a
plea for a conservative use of water
by Carolina students, who have. not
been so inconvenienced by the wa-
ter shortage as have the towns-
people. One complained, “My fam-
ily has had to drink cokes because
of the shortage.” Residents of
the Chapel Hill area hope soon
to install a new filter system
equipped to handle 300,000,000 gal-
fons of water daily,

off it’s Boing to sound mighty in-
viting to the student body. It'll
probably be a lot of fun and stir up
a lot of interest to hear speeches,
see the campus splattered with pos-
ters, and find fraternities pairing
off in vote deals. Whether it will
be a good thing is open for de-
bate.

The way things are now the
man who acts like he least wants
the job will usually win. He should-
n’t even know he’s in the race and
he'll have it in the bag. When it’s
over everydne forgets the race and
all are friends.

But now what if we openly cam-
paign. There will have to be a re-
versal of vote appeal. A candidate
will have to act like he wants the
job. Mud will be slung, someone
will get mad, fraternities will line
up in groups against each” other
and before we're through every-
body will be mad.

You might say this won't hap-
pen at Davidson. If it doesn’t, Da-
vidson will be far more different
from other colleges than we ever
imagined. Around here a man gets
a vote because he’s a good guy.
Elsewhere he gets a block of votes
because he’s a campus politician
and has a party behind him —but
he’s not a good guy. A politician
is the easiest yet the hardest per-
son to get to know.

At a big school that may be all

ight. But at Davidson the student oe

body's too small to get entangled
in such affairs. For this reason we
think the student body should think
awhile before it goes overboard on
any drastic change. However it
might not be a bad idea for the elec-
tions board to realize that there has
always been haggling within a fra-
ternity as to which of its own can-
didate it shall support. If a frater-
nity has a candidate in a race, there
should. be no harm in all the broth-
ers being urged to exercise their
franchise on that day.

So don’t worry boys. Everything
will be all right. Just take it easy
and Davidson will rock on along in
her own way — It's a pretty good
way, too, when you really think
about it. We all gripe about this
and that but after awhile you tob,

will come to accept it

Parker-Gardner
Company

118 W. Trade St. Phone 839)

Hackneyed thought it may sound
there is something inspiring in the
sound and sight of men making
music. And the feelings of these
men and of the man who leads them
were succinctly stated by Robert
Shaw when he said, “The more you
deal with music the more humble
and unworthy you feel in the face
of its greatness.’ To me this feel-
ing of-true humility is more char-
acteristic of the amateur group than
it can ever be of the professional
one. This is so I believe, because
amateurs play for the love of play-
ing, not for money and subsistence
and, so doing, are characterized by
a purity of dedication that profes-
sionals lack. -

For this reaon an event such as
the third annual arts festival is
of worth not only because of the
music presented but also because,
in an event such as this music is
heard in its most sincere form.
Tuesday night’s program was as
good an example as can be cited
of such a performance by such a
group.

The first group, Three 17th Cen-
tury Tunes by Valerius, was well
done. Occasionally the orchestra's
ensemble was not good and the
horns began a series of defections
which was only redeemed in the
final portion of the program.

The Concertante Symphonie by
Mozart was a charming number
except for the interminable second
movement. The orchestra was very

muddy in the first movement. The

+

Third Annual Arts
Festival

By HENRY E. HANSON

de | lh

horns, particularly, display ragged
entrances and excessive mistakes.

The’ soloists improved steadily
throughout the work as did the
orchestra with the exception of the
horns and the piece came to a
sprightly close with the Presto.

The American Muse by Henry
Cowell was beautfully sung as was
American Men by Cecil Effinger
Throughout these two numbers the
chorus was, as usual, near perfec-
tion in dynamics, entrances, phras-
ing, feeling, and pronunciation.

In the third group the orchestra
showed great improvement. The
Night Soliloquy by Kent Kennan
was well done Cousin Pinkie by
Charles DeLaney was a charming
humorous number reminiscent in
places of Copland’s Ranchhouse
Party. Mr. DeLaney’s solo perfor-

‘mance. was outstanding. The Ru-

manian Folk Dances was played
here before by Mary Freeman; it
is much more effective in an or-
chestral frame than it was as ar-
ranged for violin. The third sec-
tion came to a climax, musically
and emotionally, with the Dance
of the Comedians by Smetana. The
orchestra did their best playing in
this number and the horns were
really good—a peace offering for
earlier aberrations. So effective .
was this number that the last half
of it was repeated as an encore.

Many of the orchestra’s mistakes
can be excused by the terrible light-
ing for “pit performances” in

(Continued On Page Four)

A Wealth of Tradition

By TOM ABEL

One of the finest traditions of
the old South was brought to life
here at Davidson last Monday
night, when Dr. Archibald Rut-
ledge,’ naturalist, hunter, and poet
—laureate of South Carolina, spoke
in Chambers. He came fully equip-
ped with a host of legends about
Hampton, his old plantation home,
built in 1730, “and with none of
those New Deal tricks,” but a firm
“religious” foundation. He also
brought along a wild turkey re-
ducer for the benefit of his David-
son audience.

Whether we agree or not with
his idea «hat poetry must be un-
derstood by children (although this
statement was probably just an
oversimplification) to be good, none
of us will deny that he gave one
of the most refreshing talks heard
here in a long time. It is interest-

ing to get a look into the past, the
traditions, of bygone days, and Dr.
Rutledge seems to exemplify

L

The Grill, Scoes Hall
Morthwestern Unisersity
Reanston & Chicago, ill.

in every aspect the type of person
who was the “Southern Gentleman”
of the plantation life of ante-bellum
days.

His beliefs on the racial situa-
tion, so radically different from
those of our society ‘today, seem
to have a certain tranquility about
them, a tranquility which could
have developed only after years of
loving contact with his servants.

His poetry (he is a candidate
for the year’s pulitzer prize for
poetry) reflects the same, light, na-
ture loving altitude, and althought
some of it seems to be a little to
much in the vein of “sweetness
and light,” most of it is rather an
interpretation of life by one deeply
influenced by the people with whom
he lives and the surroundings in
which he lives. Dr. Rutledge, with
his bland, antiquarian spirit is a
living momument to some of the
better traditions growing out of
the growth of our country.

The Grill at Scott Hall is one of the
favorite campus haunts of the stu-
dents at Northwestern University.
That’s because The Grill is a
friendly place, always full of the
busy atmosphere of college life.
There is always plenty of ice-cold
Coca-Cola, too. For here, as in col-
lege gathering spots everywhere—
Coke belongs.
Ask for it either way... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

COTTLED UNDER AUTHOMTY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. CONCORD, N.C.
f © 1950, The Coen-Cole Compeny

&*
