PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER JOHN LOFTIN

—_—$$—$—$—$< $$ ee
EDITORIAL STAFF

et Salad

Associate Editors ...---.-...--- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor ....-...------------------------------ Shelley Beard
Managing Editors .....--------- Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George

McMurray, Ed Richardson

Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Dick Roper

City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor-——Bill White

BUSINESS STAFF

Assitant Business Manager
Advertising Manager

Circulation Manager .-..--.---------.------------------- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager -------.------.--------------------- Jack Turngr
Subscriptions Manager ..----.-.-- --------------------------- Bill Hart

Faculty Advisor

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Davidson, North Carolina

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C.
under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Better Chapel Programs

Once each year—at least during the last three years—
readers -of the Davidsonian have been able to ‘‘look forward’’|'
to at least one editorial and numerous letters on the subject
of chapel conduct. None of these appeals has seemed to help
in the least, so we will attempt a different approach, that of
absolving the student from part of the responsibility and placing
the blame on the quality and types of programs that have been
presented and the planners behind them.

Recently a member of the faculty stated, ‘Historically,
chapel programs today are the best that they have ever heen,’’
to which probably 95 per cent of the student body will imme-
diately say, ‘‘pity the poor fellows in years gone by.’’ There is
no denying the fact that chapel programs have fallen woefully
short of their avowed purpose to provide inspiration, entertain-
ment, and instruction to the student body. The wisdom of hav-
ing a daily, compulsery chapel program is not questioned here
for it has seemed well to the powers-that-be through the years
to have them, but there is no questioning the fact that better
programs are needed particularly since students have to attend
regardless of what is on the agenda.

Ideally, the present system should work. The faculty has
one day, the Y.M.C.A. has one day, the Administration has one
day, and there are two days for student programs. Groups as
varied as these should be able on their assigned days to present
® program that would command the interest and attention of
the student body.

Consider, first, facilty day which comes every Monday
No sane person envies the task of a faculty member when he
’ is ealled upon to make a speech in chapel. The majority of the
faculty is apprehensive about standing before the Davidson
student body because they perhaps have witnessed the recep-
tion that a fellow colleague may have gotten on a previous Mon-
day ; however, no faculty member need be afraid of the student
response if he has anything worthwhile and interesting to say.
What more needs to be said?

Programs on student days can definitely be improved. It
is on these two days that there is the best opportunity for
variety. Programs on the other three days will be largely taken
up by speakers of one kind or another, but on the days set aside
for students, the program should be keynoted by music, comedy
acts, ete. The Beethoven trio in chapel last Tuesday was cer-
tainly a step in this direction. Pep meetings, Court of Control
meetings, and the like often consume the time on some student
days; but on the ‘‘off’’ days more effort should be made to
provide good entertainment.

The Y.M.C.A. has the hardest job in attempting to present
an appealing devotional program each ‘week. It is difficult to
get a voluntary worshipful attitude out of a student who is
required to go to chapel. Keeping this in mind, the Y.M.C.A.
chapel committee might consider the advisability of not at-
tempting tu have a long devotional program which comes in the
middle of a busy morning. Past experience has proved beyond
the shadow of a doubt that except on special occasions such as
Easter and Christmas, these programs have generally failed to
achieve their purpose. It would be fortunate if such were not
the case, but it seems that existing conditions are simply not
conducive to the success of swch programs. A short devotional
program followed by some ‘‘Y”’’ sponsored entertainment would
perhaps be of greater value.

On the remaining day for chapel, the Administration carries
the burden. This is the most difficult of all to discuss for ob-
vious reasons, but nevertheless changes for the better can be
made on this day as on the others. Some outstanding figures
in church work have been on the campus to speak to the student
body on Wednesday mornings, but why restrict these speakers
to this field? Every Sunday night at vespers, Davidson students
hear the best that Protestantism can ofter and that should be
enough for one week. During the week speeches by corporation
executives, lawyers, statesmen, educators, doctors, etc., should
prove to be interesting and informative.

The job of improving chapel programs is a tremendous one.
Tt will take hard work and planning by all of the parties who
are responsible for staging them, but if this is done student in-
terest in chapel will be enlivened and the general ¢hapel conduct
ean do nothing but improve.

Howe Green

— THE —

Freshman Farce
By ARCHIBALD HAMENHASH

In view of the glorious triumph
of the men of might of the David-
son College football machine over
VMI last weekend, I think it might
be interesting to turn back the
calendar to that inspiring Satur-
day and view the game with our
freshman wonder, Howe Greene,
who sits watching bug-eyed at the
Davidson powerhouse roll un.
checked down the field.

And there goes A. C. Greeg run-
ning back the kickoff through the
entire VMI team for a touchdown!
You have never seen such power.

Thrilled, Howe turns to his
friend Joe Stoop and exaults:
“Look, Joe, a score already. I bet
Davidson’s got the best,team she’s
ever had. Why we'll probably take
the Southern Conference title. And
Wood Leach, just kicked the extra
Point, «

A moment later Davidson kicks
off to VMI and the sight of that
220 pound line roaring down on
the ball receiver is so frightening
that he drops down to the ground
before he can be touched.

For the remainder: of the quarter

a bitter sce-saw battle rages—be- |

tween the VMI goal and their own
twenty yard line, with C. L. Runyan
slipping through for another long
seven points—the score, 14-0.

VMI has control of the ball on
its two-yard line as the second
quarter opens. For three downs
they fail to advance the ball, anc
as the. punter drops behind the
goal to kick on fourth down, he
is completely swarmed under by
the entire Davidson line for a
touchback. Score, 16-0.

Exactly three minutes and twelve
seconds later Davidson completes a
march down the field in’ seven
plays and scores agaifi. Score, 23-0
What a confused VMI team!

The first half ends, to the relief
of the unfortunate VMI fans, just] r
as Davidson is about to score again

“Howe, what did you think of
that first half?” asked Joe.

“Boy, that was beautiful. I've
never seen such precision block-
ing and tackling. And that defense
‘line was like a stone wall. Hey, look,

the band’s out there singing again.;

They’re going to put the male
chorus out of business if this keeps
up.”

The stadium was darkened ex-
cept .for lights on the “chorus”
feet, but the entire effect was
ruined by some men in the back
of the stands who insisted on keep-
ing a light on so they could talk.

The second half is a repetition

(Continued On Page Three)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS

Do you think that intramural football here at Davidson
is too rough to be continued without some changes?

Yes—66 per cent

No—34 per cent

Do you think intramural football shonld be abolished,
played under some new rules, or left unchanged?

Abolished
6 Pet.

Unchanged
17 Pet

New Rules
77 Pe

Do you think that the present system of officiating is an

adequate one?

Yes—47 per cent

No—53 per cent

The two piano concert presented
by Pierre Luboshutz and Genia Ne-
menoff was an interesting one. The
program opened with Sicilienne by
J. S. Bach. The performance of
this sélection was to me the most

satisfying of any of the nunibers
played with the exception of the
encore presented just before inter.
mission. [t was not only technically
perfect, but its interpretation was
excellent. It was characterized by
simplicity and warmth and the to
tal tonal fabric was not overlush,
a characteristic which often shows
itself in two piano arrangements.
The Sonata in D Major by Mozart
was extremely well done. The first
movement, alleyro con spirito, fairly
sparkled so crisp and clean was the
playing. The andante was no less

distinguished both in technique and

in interpretation. The final move-
ment, allegro molto, was not as
well done as the two preceding ones.
Here the playing was at times
muddy. On the whole, however, it
was well played and. again, the ar.
rangement was faithful to the ori-
ginal. The Variations on a theme
by Haydn of Johannes Brahms
should have been. the most satisfy-
ing work on the program. That it
fell far short of this expectation is
due, I think, to two factors. First
of all, though Brahms himself wrote
the music, the piece, as played, is
not an arrangement for the two
piano médium and it suffers greatly
by contrast with the orchestral
version. Rrahms, a master in both
pianistic and orchestral. composition,

has marshalled every resource
which is available to two pianos.
but. it is not enough. The magic of
Brahms’ orchestral fabric is lacking
in the piano version. The mellow

THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX

Editor, The Davidsonian

“As Editor of the Scripts ‘'N
Pranks I wish to thank Tom Mann
for his well-written and construct-
‘ive editorial concerning the maga-

‘I zine which appeared in The David.

sonian last week. He recognized
the two-fold function of the maga-
zine implicit in its title, Scripts,
the serious side, and Pranks, the
humorous. His suggestion was that
the magazine limit itself to straight
humor and let the literary people
express themselves in a literary re-
view sponsored by the three liter-
ary societies. Tris is a very logical
proposal, but as I see it, there are
three basic objections to such a
plan: ,

1) The quality of the maga-

zine would suffer.

The _iliterary ~—s review
would not be read.

2)

3) The cost of a separate
literary review would be

prohibitive.

T.et us look more closely at each.

Quality. Other colleges have tried
a split of their magazine into liter.
ary and humor components with
disappointing results. Some of the
so-called college humor that crosses
my desk from exchange can be
classed only with the Sears Roe-
buck catalogue and Northern Tis-
suc. Even in this Temple of Heaven
we are only too likely to descend to

rsometime—some other time.”

the level of substituting beer and
sex for real humor, and vicarious
expression for the frustrated kid for
genuine comedy. Having a balance
between the serious and the hhuam-
orous tends to encourage good writ-
ing thoughout. -Humor without
crutches can be fine literature.

Reading. A literary review is the
sort of thing that students would
put on the shelf, “I'M read that
To
take the worthwhile writing of
Davidson and consign it to oblivion
between the sanitary covers of a
review is to thwart the purpose of
publishing it at all. The same writ-
ing, sandwiched in between jokes
and cartoons, has a nwwch better
chance of being read.

Cost. For one issue of the liter-
ary review, around six hundred
cold fish, for two issues, twelve
hundred. Where can you get it?
From the literary societies?—laugh
on the count of two. From the col-
lege? Try it.

I believe that providing a me-
dium of expression for the writers
on the campus is just as important
as giving the students light enter-
tainment. Since it is not practical
to start a separate literary publica-
tion, it would seem that the best
course for the Scripts *N Pranks
ig to continue to serve its two-fold
purpose, to muse and amuse, a hy-
brid, but high bred.

—Dave Hamilton

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

1.
2.
3. To make Physical Training
regardless of their age.
4.
the college at large.
5.
6.
ers.
7.
8.
9.
10.

body,

To abolish the double.cut system.
To change the existing system of giving cuts.

non-compulsory for all seniors

To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and

To change the system of student body elections.
To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speak.

To give praise where praise is due.

To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.

To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student

Music with Hansen
By HENRY E. HANSEN

a
ct ny nc

-

»

th yy

45

horn,

/
t $
e
. ( t.
§

the limpid flute, the biting
strings, the crash of full orchestra
are absent. If one is familiar with

the orchestral version, these are
heard by implication, mgmory sup-
plying what the ears do not. Never-
theless, what is heard is but a
shadow of the orchestra. The two
piano version is a facile, skilled imi-
tation of the orchestral and nothing
more. That. this is so points. up
the fact that two pianos or even
four can seldom do justice to works
written for performance in some
other medium. Works composed
for some single instrument usually
come off worst through overinfla-
tion, but even the orchestra suffers
when expressed by the piano. The
two piato medium has little litera-
ture of its own but it should stick
to what it has. When an arrange-
ment is compared with the original,
it invariably suffers for such ar-
rangements are at best bastard
works of art. The second reason
why ‘the Brahms provided. les«
satisfaction than expected. was the
interpretation itself. When one com-
pares the way in which it was
played at the concert with the way
in which, say Toscanini, plays the
same music, there is lacking an
essential spark, a warmth. Many
of the implications of the music are
left unexpressed and on the whole,
their interpretation left much to
be desired,

The pre-intermission encore, a
suite by Milhaud, was beautifully
performed. It had vigor, fire and
great feeling and this. in conjunc.
tion with the able playing of the
music made it the most satisfying
work of the evening.

The Suite Champetre by Rieti
was distinguished by excellent tech-
nique. The work itself is largely
one of those doses of sophisticated
cacophony so characteristic of some
modern composers. The second
movement, Andante molto moder-
ato, had more actual content, ori.
ginality and character, than the
two other movements. Tt reminded
one greatly of the Franck D Minor
symphony. The last selection, The
Rat, a fantasy of themes from
“Fledermaus,” while entirely appro-
priate to light opera is, on the
concert stage, an interesting bit of
high class“ schmalz. The arrange.
ment was excellent, the technique
never better, interpretation good
but, I could not help but feel that,
though the Metropolitan is doing
the opera for the first time -this
year, this fact is hardly sufficient
for arranging, much fess playing
such a selection. Three encores were
given. One deserves mention for

(Continued On Page Three)

Se ai
i rr

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, RIDA, NOVEOE 20,_ 1960,

THE WORLD THE WORLD LAST WEEK WEEK

1) The U. N. General Assembly voted 38-10 to resume diplomatic”
relations with the government of Spain.

In view of suspected graft at the port of Piraeus, the Greek

_ 2)
cabinet has resigned.

3) E. Roland Harriman is the new president uf the American Red
Cross.

3) Peiping has asked India to withdraw her troops from Tibet,
where the Red advance continues.

5) After regrouping on both sides, the opposing forces in North
Korea are again hammering at each others’ lines.

6) Secretary Acheson's suggestion that the General Assembly
have the right to ask its members for armed forces to prevent
agyression was passed 52-5.

7) Chinese Communists have pledged to “save our neighbor” and
“our Fatherland’” from the Americans, reports have indicated.

8) Marshall Tito has pledged the support of Yugoslavia to United
Nations decisions as to who is the aggressor in case of war be-
tween the U.S. and Red China.

9) After what seems to have been a palace revolution, the three-
year-old son of the Nepalese king has succeeded him.

10) U.S. forces have made the second heaviest air attack of the
Korean war.

11) Allied high commissioners approved a trade agreement between
Bulgaria and West Germany.

12) The U. N. Korean Committee has unanimously adopted a resolu.

tion that the Chinese border must be respected.

~

In the fall of the year 1975, the
incoming freshman class of David-
son College arrived for their period
of orientation. In Chambers Audi-
torium, the Dean of Students brief-
ly introduced them to their new
home. They were then guided by
members of the upper classes, who
had been selected by the Westmin-
ister FeHowship for work with the
freshmen, to the focal points of
interest on the campus and briefly
explained the functions of each.

“This is the College Church,” ex
plained the guide. “Here the student
pastor his his offices, and here he
assists the Westminister Fellow-
ship in carrying on its program of
student work. Students attend,
teach, and officiate in the Sunday
School Program, .the student Ses-
sion, and the student Diaconate.
The Fellowship will find a place
for cach of you after you fill out
the interest blanks which you have
received. If you prefer community
work, or deputation, work, you can
apply through the YMCA, which
has its offices in the Student Cen-
ter.

“The sanctuary is used for Sun-
day Morning services, for the Col-
lege Vespers, and for chapel exer.
cises, three mornings a week. None
of these are compulsory, but it has
been the experience of most of the
Students in the past few years
that the programs are of such value
and interest to everyone, that they
are rarely missed. Regular com-
pulsory assemblies are held every
Tuesday and Thursday in the Au-
torium, and there we hold student
meetings, concerts, plays, political
tallies, pep meetings, and other
events of interest.

“Before too many days have
passed, you will be visited by the
Student Pastor, who is Fred Bur-

SS

1S of Geech’s Goulash

By PETE McGEACHY

tows, Class of 55, and a graduate of
United Seminary. Fred has been
with us for four years now, and
is ‘greatly respected among the stu-
dents as a good guy, so don’t fail
to make his acquaintance.

“If you are a ministerial student,
and would like to preach, the stu-
dent representatives for Mecklen.
burg and Concord Presbyteries will
be here when the upper classmen
acrive. But above all, whatever
your chosen field, try to make the

-| College Church your church while

you are here. With a student body
of a thousand, we cannot expect all
to take an active interest, but with
the present class-room arrangement,
we are able to hold classes for all.
The student officers of the Sunday
School, elected by
Schoo! last spring, will let you
know in the next few days about
classes.

“TE you enjoy singing but do not
liz.ve time for one of the, regular
mate Choruses, there are three
Church Choirs which are open for
volunteers. These practice once a
week and sing in the chapel exer-
cises and for church, Sunday morn-
ing. Usually one of the Male Cho-
ruses sings on Sunday evening.

“A special feaure which most. of
the students seem to enjoy is the
Wednesday night bull session, at
which we invite the. students to
chat with professors on various sub-
jects. Lists are posted each Thurs-
day, telling were each professor
will be, and his subject. That way,
we get to know the profs, and may-
be some of our problems can be
aired.

“And now, fellows, lets move on
up the campus to the Quadrangle.
This has only recently been fin-
ished, and there are some things
I'd like to show you.”

VISIT THE

STUDENT STORE

)

the Sunday.
