Since the opening of
Johnston Gymnasium
last month, interest in
physical education and
particularly in inter-
fraternity basketball
games has risen by
leaps and bounds. This
is understandable, how-
ever, considering the
facilities available.
With Physical Eduea-
tion classes all day
long, work-outs and
varsity team practices
in the afternoon, and
inlerfraternity games
at night, the gym has
hecome the center of campus activity.

By GORDON SCOTT

GREEK RACE TIGHTEST IN HISTORY

Never hefore in the recent history of interfraternity competi-

Gridders End Second
(Week of Work In
Master-Minded ‘’T’’

By BILL WHITE

Two weeks of Diamond-T fun-
damental drills come to an end

tion here at Davidson has so much interest been shown as has|;,- payidson's Wildcats tomorrow
been the ease during the enrrent cage competition. Much of this| afternoon, but Crowell Little's for-
enthusiasm is of course due to the excellent playing conditions| ty-odd grid aspirants have only

which the new gym affords but the big thing in the picture is
the excellence and near-equal strength of all of the teams in the
interfraternity loop. In former years many of the Greek or-
wanizations were content to delegate five men of questionable
ability to the laborious task of running around a basketball
court for 32 minutes in a vain effort to keep the glory of ole
Eta Felta Thi alive, often with ridiculous results. Needless to say,
this. wasn’t true in all eases but it was a pattern that was
generally followed.

The interfraternity hardwood competition this year has defi-
nitely dispelled the long-aceepted belief in the minds of many
that there are some teams who are year in and year out at the
mercy of four or five tough teams; for this year, with the pos-
sible exception of one or two quintets, the competition is of
such an equal quality that any team on a ‘‘good night’’ can
whip another. It’s fortunate that such a situation exists. In a
one or {wo team race for the-echampionship, interest invariably
lags — except for the all-conquering leaders — and the remain-
der of the teams are likely to play just becanse it is a duty, ui-
pleasant though it may be. A look at the current standings will
reveal that three or four teams are apparently fighting for the
cellar and the opinion is naturally expressed that the race is
not as close as we are making it sound.

The fact is that a vast majority of the losses which have put
these teams where they are have heen by a very few points—
in many instanees by only one or two. A good example of this
was the game between the S. P. E.’s who at this writing have
yet to win a game, and the Pikas who are.currently among the
pack leaders. A desperate last half surge enabled the Pikas to
come out on top by three points 38-35. This is but one example,
and if the reader would doubt this, we refer him to past scores.

CHAMPIONSHIP STILL WIDE OPEN

Since there will be two rounds of basketball this year, it would
he folly to pick a champion at this stage of the race. However,
unless there is a sharp reversal of form the winner will come
from among the Kappa Sigs, Pikas, Sigma Chis or the S.A.E.’s.
Any of these teams could cop the league championship consid-
ering the distribution of talent on the teams. But in the long
cun, the deciding factor will be which team ean stay ‘‘up’’ and
play steady ball throughout the remainder of the trying sched-
ule. It’s a tight race and will continue to be so down to the finish
wire. It’s a race that is worth watehing and following regardless
of whether you are a fraternity man or whether your particular
quint is in the thick of it. In our opinion, it would be well worth
anybody’s time to take a little time off from the ‘“*books’’ and
drop by the gym at night when these games are played.

UNKNOWNS STEAL STARS’ THUNDER

It's not too early for sports’ managers of the different fra-
ternities and social organizations to start looking over the field
of players in order to determine their choices for the Interfra-
ternity Basketball team. In addition to many of the stars of years
past, many new-comers have been little short of sensational on
the hardwood this year. Sports’ managers would do well to
carefully look these boys over, because actually, in many cases,
these ‘‘unknown”’ stars are the ones who really deserve post-
season honors. ‘

While on the subject of interfraternity athletics, we would like
to make comment on the officiating at games. To begin with,
the men who have acted as officials in basketball games this year
have for the most part done a creditable job. The main trouble
has been lack of consistency on decisions on the part of indi-
vidual referees and the whole group of men who call the games.
Some are more lax in certain respects than others. Some allow
the games to approach free-for-alls as far as roughness is con-
cerned without blowing their whistle. Now as we see it, this fault
cannot be explained by aceusing the officials of being more
biased when certain teams are playing. Rather, it seems that they

are not as familiar with the fundamentals of game-calling as they I.

might be.
ATTENTION ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT

This is certainly no fault of their own, for they are doing the
best that they know how. What we would like to suggeat to the
Athletie Staff is that prior to competition in each of the inter-
fraternity sports that a sort of official’s school be held under
the direction of some member of the college coaching staff. It

need not consist of more than meeting together for two or
three nights at the very most, and at these meetings the instruc-
tor could simply go over the more important rules with the aspir-
ing officials. This idéa may go over like a lead balloon, but if
you consider all of the hard feelings and complaining that have
arisen, not only this year but in years gone by, due to faulty
officiating, then we're sure you'll agree that the situation is in
dire need of being reworked. Such instructional classes won't
be a cure-all, but they would at least be a step in the right diree-
tion. What do you think? ‘

scratched the surface of the nine-
week off-season session.

The new Cat skipper has spent
the first quarter of winter work on
conversion of material from the
single wing to thie fundamentals of
the T, particularly the diamond-T
which it appears the former UNC
frosh tutor will employ for the
Wildcats next fall.

To date, naught but basic func-
tions of the formation have been
dealt with, the greatest job being
the orientation of backs. However,
most of the candidates have run
from the T at some time or other
during. their careers, the frosh hav-
ing been schooled in it just this
fall.

The Cat’s tossing tailback Au-
burn Lambeth is reconverting very
nicely to the T-spot, a post which
earned him all-state honors as a
prepster at Decatur, Ga, Running
tentatively at least, behind Lam-
beth are quarterbacks Johnny Gui-
ton and Bill Bacon. Bacon, a swif-
tie at McCallie during prep school,
is reporting for football at David-
son for the first time.

Working with Lambeth and re-
turnee fullback C. L. Runyan are
two lightning fast scooters up from
the frosh ranks to replace grad-
uates to be Jake Wade and Charlie
Rimer. The two are Roy White
and A. C, Gregg, both hard hitters
and hustlers who hit the line at
top speed to slither through defen-
sive backfields after grabbing the
handoff from the quarter. Woody
Leach, rising senior, who last fall
was a starting back on the defen-
sive platoon, has also been looking
very impressive at offensive half-
back in the relatively light drills
to date.

While ends Bob Turk, Walt Han-
kins and Don Lazenby and tackles
Brady Osborne and Bill McNeely
'may not report before March 1 due
to basketball and wrestling, Little
has had a chance to see what new
material on the flanks and at tac-
kle can do. A ‘fraternity standout
for two years, Dave Williams seem-
ingly is going to make the switch
to the varsity grade without losing
auch of his elusive, glae-fingered
ability. Ex-frosh Dick Kelley is an-
other good lonker at end, and the
two newcomers are making the
¢competition kéen for Dickie Blanks
and Lee Talbert, the latter a jay-
vee last fall because of eligibility
rulings.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1950 .

GAMECOCKS EDGE DAVIDSOK 58-56

|
'
7
5

~ Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

eel

/———
~ /
AT

BOB TURK

Wildcat Of The Week....

Starting off his first varsity bas-
ketball game against College of
Charleston last Monday night, Bob
Turk turned in a beautiful perfor-
mance which earned him the title of
Wildcat of the week.

The stocky blond from Atlanta,

stepped into one of the forward

slots and was the spark which ig-
nited Davidson’s run-away in the
second half. Bob’s specialty against
the Maroons, as against all foes, is
a deadly one-handed push shot from
around the foul circle. His aim was
true for 13 markers against the
Maroons, highest total pasted dur-
ing the game,

Turk was one of Boyd Baird’s
most dependable performers on last
year's twice-defeated frosh squad,
and with two years of cligibility left,
Rob should have a britliant hard-
wood carcer ahead of him. He’s not
spectacular on the court, but his

Another freshman who has given
notice already of winning his var-
sity spurs early next fall is Angus
McInnis, a hefty 185-pound scrap-
per who gets across the line fast
and often. He'll be a handy man to
have a tackle, a post weakened by
graduation this spring.

Little hopes to scrimmage his
club against that graduating club
next week end, but definitely plans
an intra-squad scrimmage for the
eleventh of March, closing out the
Practice on that date.

Spirited Cats Avenge Earlier Licking
By Trouncing College of Charleston

By JIM FARRAR

The Wildcat quintet came back
strong in the second half to down
a scrappy University of - Charles-
ton team Monday night. Turk and
Cobb lead the Cat scoring with
thirteen and cleven points respec-
tively,

Cobb started the scoring with 3

a)

tebounds. The score at the half
was 31 to 25, Davidson leading.
Puckbaber put Charleston back
in the ball game in the frst min-
utes of the first half on a foul shot
and a crip, Price followed with a
crip fo tie the score at 31-all. Turk
then made two push shots from in-

| Side the foul line to put the Cats

ahead to stay. Hengeveld hit a
long shot, and Coleman made a
crip to make the score 39 to 31.
Hengeveld was hurt under the bas-
ket, but was able to walk off the
floor of his own accord. McLean
made a foul shot making the score
40 to 31. Nelson made the score
40 to 32 on a foul shot. Turk made
a push followed by crips by Cole-

man and Lazenby making the score

ww)

TOM COLEMAN

left handed push. Puckbaber tied
it up again with a crip. Cobb put
the Cats ahead again with a set
shot. Hengeveld, Cobb, and Lazen-
by put Davidson ahead to stay in
the first half with long shots and

‘146 to 32. Price made a foul shot,

and Cobb made a beautiful swish
from out beyond the foul circle.
Cheek matched Cobb's long shot
to make the score 48 to 35. Turk
added his final two pointer makin

“I the score $2-35. Haller finally got

hot and hit three crips and a‘ lony:
‘shot in the last four minutes, with
Cobb adding a final push shot,
making the score 64 to 36. Nelson
made a foul shot for Charleston to
end the scoring for the night. The
final score 64 to 37. Coleman and

steadiness makes him a good team
man and a constant threat under
the basket.

“Harpo,” as he is tagged by his
friends, excells on the gridiron as
well as on the basketball courts.
Playing on last year’s frosh team

‘

‘HARPO” WEEK'S

TOP PERFORMER

PAGE FOUR

Slaughter Drops In 31 Points as S.C.

Starts Fast and Outdistances Cats

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

The University of South

Carolina Gamecocks won their

second game of the season from the Wildeats of Davidson

Wednesday night in Columbia,

S. C., as they came out on the

top end of a 58-56 score. It was almost a completed turn-about
from the other game played between the two teams. The first

Chesterfield
Sport Quizz

1. The first: winner of the Heis-
man trophy was a star gridder at
Iowa who was killed during the
last. war. Who was he?

2. The only major undefeated bas-
ketball team in the country is —.

3. Paul Severin, All-American
end at U.N.C. was recently appoint-
ed head football coach at -what
school?

4. Who was the highest scoring
guard in college basketball in North
Carolina last year?

5. In a recent AP poll,

was yoted top tennis star of the
past 50 years.

Rules

1. Print your ‘answers clearly on
the back of a Chesterfield wrapper.

2. No entries will be accepted
later than 24 hours after the Da-

as an end, he moved up to the var-| vidsonian is circulated.

sity and saw plenty of action as a
defensive end. He'll be out there
again next year, in fact he will get
in the latter part of spring drills
when basketball is over.

We're proud to salute this first-
rate athlete this week and congrat-
ulate him for his stellar playing
against College of Charleston.
Needless to say, the name of Bob
Turk will become increasingly
prominent in college and conference
circles,

Frosh In Best Form
of Year Against EMI.

By BILL BRADFORD

Ray Brown's freshmen team came
roaring back Monday night after
a series of loses to down Edwards
Military Institute 66-46. The Kit-
tens got off to a-slow start against
the Cadets and were trailing by two
points, 24-22, as the halftime buz-
zer sounded. Following intermis-
sion, the Wildkittens rallied, with
Bob Graham's marksmanship lead-
ing the way, and went on to win
66-46,

Graham turned in by far the fin-
est performance of the evening,
bucketing 23 points. His accuracy
was unerring and proved to be one
of the deciding factors in the con-
test, although the excelient floor
play contributed a good bit to the
final outcome,

The win over E. M. J. was the
second of the year for the frosh
capers, the first win being against
Parker high of Greenville.

Cobb lead the Cats ifider the
basket and in floor play. Puckbaier
and Price headed the scoring for
the University of Charleston wit!
10 and 9 points respectively. Da
vidson was in control of the bal
game all the way except for a fev
minutes at the start of the secon

half. ‘The scoring was very evenly
distributed among the  play.r

Coleman had cight poins, ‘Turk 13,
Cobb 11, Hengeveld 9, I.a enby 8
and Haller 8.

BRYAN WENTZ
COMPANY

**Olothing Por The Man’”’
205 South Tryon St.
Charlotte 2, North Carolina

n,

i

3. Take your answer to Frank
Perrin in 112 West.

4. The first three correct entries
will receive a carton of Chester-
field vigarettes.

5. This contest is not open to the
members of the Davidsonian staff.

r

eh

iy.

game was close until the last 10
minutes, when Davidson was worn
down and lost by some 20 points.
However, in this game, it wasn’t
even close the first 10 minutes,
when it looked as if S. C. might win
in a walk. The rest of the game
proved to be a real battle.

The Gamecocks rushed to a 16.6
lead in the first five minutes and
then ran it up quickly to 23-9 for
their biggest lead. Then Davidson
began to get rebounds and hit their
shots, and as the half ended, the
Gamecocks held a slight 31-28 lead.
Most of the S. C. scoring was done
by Slaughter, who in the first half,
had hit 6 of 13 field goals. All six
completions came in the first 10
minutes. It began to look like a
real contest.

With only three minutes left, two
goals by Cobb and Brooks brought
Davidson to within two points of
the Gamecocks. $3-51, Then Brooks
followed with a basket to knot the
score, 53-53. A set shot by S. (.
guard Cox and a Davidson foul
shot by Tom Coleman upped the

score to 55.54. S. C.’s Munn and
Davidson's Brooks followed with
baskets with only one minute left
to make the score, 57-56. A foul
shot by Chuck Prezioso ended the
scoring and the game, 58-56. .

Davidson's Wildcats hit 10 of 15.
free throws while S. C. got only 8
of 22. Brooks led Davidson's
scorers with 14 points, while S. C.'s
center, Jim Slaughter, hit the nets
for 31 points, although missing six
free throws,

‘)

7

FROSH STANDOUT BOB GRAHAM
