the most brilliant
‘staged by a Davidson
team of this or. any.
other generation
Baird’s masterful strat-

egy, was carried out to
perfection under the
ealm and capable di-
rection of Capt. Whit
Cobb and his mates
who showed the howling assemblage present something entirely
new in the way of offense and defense. State’s head mentor,
Everitt Case, doubtless added several grey hairs to his silvery
thatch in an effort to solve the complex defense which the Cats
employed. For lack of a better name, we will call it a ‘‘T’’ Zone
cefense, whieh describes it fairly accurately.

CAT'S ‘‘T’’ ZONE PUZZLES HOOSIERS

The defense, which had three men back, one in the front
of the circle, and the fifth out front—a perfect *‘'T’’ shape—
vas obviously designed to slow dewn the Wolfpack’s hereto-
fore uneanny shotmaker’s, namely Dick Dickey, Sammy Ran-
zino, aud Paul Horvath. As for the lanky Horvath, lie was able
to toss in only four points during the proceedings, and Ranzino,
the loop’s leading seorer, was held to a mere ten points, It was
‘Dick Dickey who actually dealt the Cats the death blow. The
two-time All-American found the basket for seventeen. markers,
the majority of whieh came on push shots, from the corner,

Dickey, who hasn’t exaetly been burning up the nets thus far|”

this year, finally found himself, as fate would have it against
Davidson. Exeept for Diekey’s scintillating floor play and
shooting brilliance, N. C. State bore little resemblance to the

highly touted kingpins of the Southern Conference and the win-|_

ner of the Dixie Tournament in Raleigh during the Christmas
holidays.

Davidson’s great fight against State Tuesday night was|:

inother glowing testimonial te the ability and coaching ‘‘ know
how’’ of Coach Boyd Baird. When Baird was appointed to fill
in as basketball coach following the resignation of Norman
“hepherd, everyone knew that he brought with him a wealth
of spirit and determination, if not experience, But few would
have conceded to him the success that he has already enjoyed
in the still-young basketball season. If Davidson had searched
high and low for a coach with an established reputation in the
game, it is doubtful that one could have been found who could
have gotten the results out of the material at hand that Baird
has. No doubt about it— Boydson Baird can easily lay claim to
the title as the South’s Most Promising Young Basketball Men-
tor.

EIGHT CONFERENCE WINS NEEDED

The loss to State Tuesday night leaves the Cats with a Con-
ference record of one win and four losses, and needless to say
they are entering the crucial part of the schedule which will |
determine whether Davidson will play in the Southern Con-
ference Tournament in Durham. With thirteen Conference
games yet to play—ineluding last night’s tussle with Furman
and tonight’s game at Clemson—Baird’s charges will need to
win at least eight of those remaining games for a 500 mark
and a probable slot in the tourney. Of course, on the other
hand, they can’t afford to drop more than five games. :

A look at the remaining Conference games on tap shows
what the Cats are up against—two games ‘with Furman, two
with Clemson, one with U.N.C., one with Duke, two with U.S.C,
one with V.M.I., Richmond and Maryland, and two with The
Citadel. So actually, the two games this week-end with Furman
and Clemson may well tell the tale as to Davidson’s tourna-
ment fortunes. Davidson is capable of beating any of the above
mentioned teams, but on the other hand, any of them might level
Davidson. It’s a wide open race and will be interesting to watch.

CROWELL LITTLE ARRIVES ON CAMPUS

Crowell Little, recently named to guide the Red and Black
gridders in the future, has arrived in Davidson, although at
present he: is i w. ¥ork at the NCAA meeting. Reports have
it: thaty has received numerous applications for assistant
coaching posts, but no definite action has been. taken yet. George
Radman, backfield coach at U.N.C., has been prominently men-
tioned for a job here, but the acute housing shortage in David-
son makes the whole situation indefinite, At present, Little is
living with his mother, the supervisor of dormitories, until a
house can be found for him.

WHEREVER YOU GO!

pte itd

DAVIDSON
THEATRE

dente

}WEEK OF JANUARY 16-21

es

sc pe

By WOODY McKAY

Coach Charlie Parker's Wildcat
grapplers take to the mats on Sat-
urday, January 14, for their second
showing of the year.

The opposition for the Davidson
wrestlers will be the University of
Maryland at College Park, Md.
The Terps team is supposed to be

this season, and the Davidson mat-
men expect a hard match; how-
ever, they will be trying their best
to get into the win. column.

The first’ match of this season
Was against Virginia University,
and the Wildcats lost by the score
of 27-5.

The Wildcat team this year has
half of -its first string wrestlers
with previous experience, and the
other half are new at the sport

in varsity competition. With .a
little experience and continued
hard work, Davidson’s. matmen

one of the best in the conference}:

should offer some good competition
in the conference before the sea-
son is out.
Bill. “Bull” Alexander should go
far in conference competition if he
can reach his last year's form. He
defeated some of the best last: year,
and if last season's performances
mean anything, “Bull’ will be a
key man as the season progresses.
The boys wrestling against Mary-
land will be:
121—Bell.
128— Kelton.
136—Grissom.
145—Pendleton.
155—Haynes.
165—Price.
175—Alexander.
Unlimited—MeNeely.

~

The physician, after a patient
died, went to the executor of the
estate and presented his bill.

“Do you wish to have this sworn
to?” he asked.

“No,” said the executor. “The
death of the deceased iS sufficient
evidence that you attended him pro-
fessionally.”

NC. State A

One of the most thrilling basket-
ball games of this season and
many others was played Tuesday
night in. Johnston gym as the
N, C. State Wolfpack was rushed
by the fighting Wildcats: of Da-
vidson to win, 43-35. The red-jer-
seyed and red-faced Wolfpack, the
ninth ranking team in the nation,
had to break a 35-35 tie with only
four minutes remaining to win their
second game of the séason from
the Cats. This spirited Davidson
team was a far cry from the team
that lost by some 30 points carlier
in the season to State.

The Cats got off to an early 6-2
lead on. shots by Haller, Henge-
veld, and Cobb, at the 3-minute
mark, only to have it tied a few
minutes later on set shots by Bubas
and Harard and a push by Ranzino.
Lazenby’s lay-up and foul. shot gave
the Cats a 9-8 lead that was
bolstered when Cobb sank a hook
and a set shot, as Davidson went
ahead, 13-8. Bubas’ long shot and
Lazenby’s free toss made it. 14-10
with only three minutes remaining
in the half. State fought back on
a lay-up by Dickey, and a free toss
by Dickey sto forge ahead 17-14.
Just as it looked as if State was
beginning to roll in their usual high-
scoring style, Coleman's foul: shot
and Brook's push gave Davidson
three ‘more points to stay in the
game, Dickey’s foul shot gave the
Pack a slim and unexpected ARI?
margin at the half.

State jumped to a 22-17 lead with
only. three minutes gone in the
second half, before Turk sank a
hook to keep: the Cats in scoring
distance. ‘Two goals by Dickey and
a driving lay-up. by Brooks left
the score at 26-23 with five min-

‘| utes gone, A long shot by Cobb and

two foul shots by Brooks and one
by Turk knotted the score, 26-26,
before Curtis and Dickey cashed in
on three points to put the Pack
back in the ‘lead, 29-26. However,
the Cats werent through yet.
Turk’s long shot and Coleman's
crip gave Davidson’ a 30-29 lead.
Three push shots by Dickey and a
jump shot by Coleman. changed
the lead to 35-32 for State with
only five minutes remaining in the

WILDCAT

By CHERRY STRIBLING

Tuesday nigntt’s performance by
Whit
that the slendér Durham boy is by
far the best guard in the confer-
ence. For the benefit of those not
present at the N. C, State drama,
Whit led the fighting Cats with a
brilliant floor game and hit his set
shets with accuracy that reminds
one of his high scoring perform-
ances of previous years. Davidson
didh't win, but the huge crowd of
over 3,000 roared its approval as
‘Captain. Cobb. and his serapping
bunch raced neck and neck with
the nationally ranked Wolfpack
down to the last few minutes of
the game. The floor game of Whit
was marvelous to behold. He
worked the ball with ease and
finesse and often his clever falcing
and sharp passes left All-Ameri-
can Dickey flatfooted. Davidson
showed a new offense, designed to
slow down State's running game
and to control the ball. It was
anybody’s ball game when, with the

‘| score tied at 35-35 by Cobb's set

shot, the Wolfpack broke away

g2me away. The final score
44-35, and State had © bare!
avoided another embarrassing de-
feat.

Cobb again demonstrates‘

for nine quick points and put the}

OF THE WEEK ....

| warning to the rest of the confer-

\Frosh Cagers Fall
[Before U.N.C. State

'} the UNC frosh last Saturday night

jin the second quarter of the game,

is

ats Give Valuable Additions to Athletic Staff

By BILL

a University of North Carolina

aay Ri
. : 2
eke 8% :
eo a

CROWELL LITTLE

game. The scrapping Cats tied it
once more on Brook's jump shot
and Cobb's free throw to make
it 35-35, with, four minutes remain-
ing. It was here the experience of
the Conference champions won out
over Davidson's sophomores. A
push shot by Harard and foul shot
by Curtis gave State a three-point
edge with only two and one-halt
minutes remaining. As the Wolf-
pack began to freeze the ball, the
Cats tightened and Ranzino and
Curtis broke in for crips to ice
the game, Two foul:shots by Dickey
ended the scoring of a slow-scoring
game at 44-35.

It has been three years since
State has been held ‘to as few
points as they scored in this game.
This can be credited to a tight
zone thrown up by Coach Boyd
Baird’s boys and fine defensive
play. All 3,000 of the spectators
who jammed into the gym were
astounded at the surprising play: ot
the battling Wildcats, a team. that
never quit. Captain Dick Dickey,
a. real all-American, bucketed 17’
points to lead both, teanis in scor-
ing. Sammy Ranzino and Whit
Cobb followed with 10 and 9 points
apiece; the foul shooting was about
equal, State hitting 6 of 13, and
Davidson. making good on 7 of 14.
This game could be a preview. of
what might come in Davidson
basketball; the game was a fair

ence that they can expect trouble
from the fighting Cats.

By DICK LILES

The Davidson freshman basket-
ball team absorbed a 61-27 defeat by

in Johnston gym. As a preliminary
to the Southern Conference tilt, the
Kittens played a rousing first half,
holding the Tar Babies to a 27-15)
edge. Carolina wasn't able to score

because of the cautious guarding

|and spirited play of Ray Brown's

jin the thrilling first half of play.

charges. Bowen collected six points

The second half proved different
as the classy visitors hit their stride.
Grimaldi and Wallace led the at-
itack with seven field goals each for
15 and 14 points respectively.
i en and Asbury poured in nine
‘tallies each. Final score was 61-37.

The Tuesday night tilt turned
out a bit worse, The rangy Hoosier

Bo

WHITE

From nearby North Carolina and far away Cornell College,
Christmas came to Davidson late last month in the acceptances
of Crowell Little and Paul. K. Seott of duties. as: head football
coach and director.of athletics, respectively, at Davidson. Little,

alumnus and for the past two
seasons freshman football coath at
Carolina, comes to the first head
coaching job of his career, follow-
ing the resignation of Charley
Jamerson, skipper of the Wiidcats
for the past two falls.

Jamerson immediately. was named

‘Poy Dr, John R. Cunningham in

the holiday shake-up ‘hedd base-
bali coach and acting athletic di-
rector. Jamerson will serve in the
director's capacity until Scott ar-
rives on the scene, probably as late
as June. 1.
‘Thus Davidson will open next
fall urider what is expected to be
an entirely new football setup, al-
though Dr, Cunningham in his an-
nouncement emphasized the fact
that the new appointments did not
necessarily. infer a change in ath-
letic policy. Nevertheless, Little
will undoubtedly bring an aide
with -him, either from Carolina or
from previous coaching associates.
ott. now director of athletics at
ornell in Iowa, will give David-
son its first full-time athletic direc-
tor since’ Norman Shepard resigned
last spring to move to Haryard as
head basketball coach. James F.
Pinkney, professor of political
science and a former member of
the faculty athletic committee,
served as acting director-this fall.

Though a Carolina man since
‘1946 when he joined the UNC
coaching staff on leaving the Army
after five years, Little is very well
associated with Davidson. His
mother is dorm director at David-
son at. present, and’ Little himself
coach here in 1938-39 as a fresh-
man coach.

An all-southern quarterback and
member of the Tar Heel squad
from 1935-1937, the Asheville native
coached one year at Kings Moun-
tain. High School: before coming.
to Davidson as frosh coach. He
went into the Army in 1940 and
thence to North Carolina.

He is married, a brother-in-law,
by the way, of Duke’s. basketball-
ing Dick Crowder, and has one
son.

Little reportedly plans nine weeks
of winter practice for the 1950
Wildcats, beginning early in Feb-
ruary. Schooled in the single wing
under Carolina’s Carl . Snavely,
Little may follow up Jamerson's
plan to install the T or split-T
formation at Davidson this fall. A
look at pictures, and material is
necessary, however, Little pointed
out, before any definite plan of
offense is forthcoming.

Athletically, Scott will be com-
ing. east: for the first time, A grad-
uate of Cornell College where he
excelled in football, wrestling, and
track, the 44-year-old father of one
son coached. at three high schools
between 1927 and 1937, going to
Culver-Stockton College in Mis-
souri' in 1938 as athletic director.

In 1941 he moved farther west -
to Cornell at Mt. Vernon, Iowa,
to becomé a member of the ath
letic staff there. Since that year,
his wrestling and cross country
teams have been undefeated in the
Midwest Conference. His 1947 team
was the NCAA champion and his
"48 and "49 teams finished third in
the nationah firing,

Scott's cross country teams Have
jbeen equally impressive, finishing
high in the NCAA meet last year.
In 1946 Scott was president of the

National Collegiate Cross Country
Association. From 1946 to 1948 he

‘was a member of the National
[AAU Wrestling Rules Committee,
and at present is chairman of the

Towa Association of the AAU

| weighing 145 pounds, Scott holds
an MA in physical education from
‘Columbia.

Reports earlier stated that he
g) Would report by April 1, It is
‘probable, however, that duties at

