PAGE TWO

THE

DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1951

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF .............-......:::0eeeeee BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ...................... ALEX GOLEY
Associate Editors .--.----.-.--- Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,
George McMurray
Managing Editors .......--- Larry Dagemnhart, Frank Hanshaw,

John Ottley

Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson

Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor-—Don Mahy

Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager .-..-.----------~---- Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager ----..--.-------------------- Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager -..---.------------------------ Bob Poston
Collection Manager -.-..--.--.--------------------- Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager -...--------------------- Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Reading 11; 10-Week Review

December 7, 1951

Mr. Sam Hope
Davidson College
Davidson, N. C.
Dear Sam:

It is always a pleasure to hear from one of our readers. It
also was quite interesting to hear from you.

From all I could glean from your letter, your reading in
The Davidsonian this year has been very scant. or else you have
an interpretation of the word “‘live’’ which is far different from
mine. Then again, maybe it’s just a short memory. Let me re-
fresh it.

In point one of your three-point analysis for our “considera-
tion’’ you said: “Your editorials do not discuss ‘live’ issues. Why
not present student versus administration views on the cut sys-
tem, holidays, chapel, compulsory vespers, rush week and hell
week.”

Chapel has been a point of controversy ever since I have
been at Davidson and no doubt before I came here. Last Spring
a subcommittee of the faculty committee on religious activities
outlined what I think. and few can deny, were intelligent steps
toward the solution of the problem. In the very first issue of The
Davidsonian. following up an issue left from the last days of
May, we asked: ‘Success So Soon?’’ We expressed hope that
the new program would meet continued success with faculty-
student cooperation. If others want to blast it, that’s their busi-
ness. We stand behind the improved program—the first sane.
positive steps toward better chapel in many a day.

Two weeks later we came out in news story and editorial,
recognizing ATO's leadership toward a Greek Week or Help
Week and closing the editorial with the hope that “Pan Hel will
take steps toward such a program as soon as it gets its big dance
(Homecoming) weekend safely tucked away.’ Then, November
16, again in the No. 1 editorial spot, we happily spoke of Pan
Hel's progressive investigation toward a Greek Week. urging
them to keep in mind the reservations which some fraternities on
the campus had expressed last spring toward the ‘‘model’” Greek
Week presented at'that time. It is through The Davidsonian (and
partially through our efforts was some of the material for the
report required) that Bill Adams’ Greek Week report is being
released to the student body.

As for our work on holidays, we were quite ready to run
an editorial asking for the Thanksgiving shift from Thursday to
Saturday when president Mac McLean informed us that it would
be unnecessary, in as much as he was going to bring the matter
himself before the student body and then the executive committee.

Also, in point one, you speak of how ‘'some two-fisted
editorials” could create an active interest in the paper. Theoretical-
ly, there is some truth in that statement, Sam, but remember
this. The Davidsonian is a weekly paper. Most young college
men fail to be stirred for a week's length by an editorial, no mat-
ter how fiery. the pen that wrote it. I imagine we who have tried
it can see that a little more readily than you can, but think
about it.

In the same sense, you cite our publication of but two letters
to the editor. Sam, that box has really been bare. We have printed
some controversial articles for. the exact purpose of provoking
letter response. We even had an editorial on ‘Mirror of Student
Expression,’ which closed: ‘’ . . . what you say may stimulate

’ others, and stimulation leads to action.” Yet, the postman is
empty-handed. And you say, “ .. . it is indicative of lack of
student interest in The Davidsonian.’’ The Davidsonian, Sam,
or the affairs d’ college?

Now, as regards the articles by Mike Myers and Nat Daniel,
two of our writers. Your criticism: ““The Davidsonian got credit
for their fine articles on football. However, when an alumnus
writes in an unfavorable evaluation of the articles Mike and Nat
are made to shoulder the criticism.’’ Sam, the by-line is there
through thick and thin. That article is that boy's work. If the
article is good, his name is there for all to see and praise—such
as Liles received in this case. If readers want to pan the writing,
however, they know who to hit. We exist to mirrow student
thought: not to endorse the thought of every student wishing
to express it through HIS newspaper. On Myers’ article, we are
responsible for what he says because it was written as a feature
story and not an editorial expression. But if you will go back
to the editorial ‘Writers Voice Own Opinions” of November 16,
you will see that we spoke only of not assuming responsibility
for writings other than those in this column on our editorial page.

Sam, I hope you won't think I’ve gone too public in answer-
ing your letter, but I feel it merits editorial recognition because
it is typical of the many who have attacked The Davidsonian this
year, but who—unlike yourself—never took the trouble to say
so. We appreciate it. Criticism makes for a healthier atmosphere
anywhere. Also, it often affords the criticized an opportunity he
otherwise would never get to review just what he has been doing.

For this opportunity, The Davidsonian thanks you.

Sincerely,
BILL WHITE,
Editor in Chief,
The Davidsonian.

i nae

FAMOUS LAST_WORDS::

Nifdr), Vee
ab, fe
4 . to4, ef
eT My
fe pee, »
an 7

SES by,
aye

oY
0
wry

eg

cue
CR arpa

pen MALI
vv SS Aiea]

“NAW, MIDNITE SNACKS NEVER
GIVE ME NIGHTMARES /

J

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Barium Tree Trimmers Given
Lowdown on Proper Technique

Trees, when they are lopped
and cut, grow up again in a
short time. but man, being
once lost, cannot easily be re-
covered.—Plutarch.

Christmas tree trimming, as an an-
cient and noble art, has not received
the distinction due it. Stocking-fill-
ing, gift-wrapping and turkey-carv-
ing are well-known Yuletide activ-
ities, and one can find ample ma-
terial on how to do each one in the
nearest library, That is to say, one
can go to the nearest library to
see how they're done. Or rather,
to be more explicit; there are books
in the nearest library that tell you
how to do it.

But Christmas tree trimming?
Nay, there's nary a word on any
tree trimming at all much less the
peculiar field of Christmas tree
trimming. Turn to the card library,
in fact, to the tre-s, and where tree-
trimming would be, is nothing, and
right next to nothing is Trebuchet-
ting and Other Winter Sports, by
William C. Trebuchet, Davidson,

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

‘$2, and Tree-frogs I Has Known,
by Oliver McG. I, Davidson, ‘65.
The first is in Greek and the
second, on reserve, so the scholar
must turn elsewhere.

Realizing the dearth of factual
knowledge, the Cabbage Planter.
has. done research Into the
matter and has come up with noth-
ing pertinent, a sore shoulder,
crick in his neck, and a fierce pas-
sion for the Department of In-
terior’s conservation program, which
includes stopping all cutting of
evergreen trees, consequently
scotching the Christmas tree busi-
ness, and in the long run eliminat-
ing Christmas tree trimming. How-
ever, the Secretary of the Interior
has thirtcen children and a sense
of duty, and so has vetoed the law
until after his children are in col-
lege. We present forthwith a rule
or two for the interim.

Often the tree-trimmer does not
realize the cultural origin of the
object of his efforts. The word
tree, as we use it, comes from the

EDITORS MAIL:

|. M. Richards

Congratulates

1951 Wildcat Team and Coach

Dear Dr. Cunningham:

I would like through you to con-
vey hearty congratulations to the
members of our football team and
to our coaching staff upon the ex-
cellent showing which our boys
made against Georgia Tech last
Saturday.

The football squad has had more
than its share of misfortunes this
year, and I am confident that its
record would have been much bet-
ter in the matter of scores except
for the unusually heavy casualty
list. At the end of such a dis-
couraging season, and with no
possibility of winning against the
overwhelmingly superior physical
resources of Tech, one could hardly
have blamed our men if they had
simply gone through the motions
of playing that afternoon. To the
everlasting credit of all concerned
let it be recorded that, on the con-
trary, they played with gallantry,
with spirit, and with skill, and they
were fighting just as hard when the
game ended as when it began.

A good deal was made in the
press of the fact that Tech made
large use of reserves and of fresh-
men in this game. Little was said
of the fact that Davidson has had
to rely heavily on reserves and on
freshmen virtually all season. The
truth of the matter is that during
this game Tech used every varsity
man who was.in good condition to
play, and ‘that it was using some
of its chief stars at least as late as
who witnessed the game can attest
the end of the third quarter. Those
the fact that the Tech players tried
hard for additional touchdowns—
particularly in the closing series of
plays when Quarterback Brigman
was sent back in to direct the at-

tack, They did not succeed. Coach
Bobby Dodd of Tech has been high-
ly complimentary in his remarks
about our players, and says—with
perfect accuracy—that at no time
during the game did our team look
bad.

Our men played hard football,
and the tackling was the best I have
seen displayed by any Davidson
team in recent years. At the same
time, their play was clean and their
sportsmanship is attested by the
fact that not a single penalty was

(Continued On Page Four)

Latin root, “tree,” meaning a long
wooden thing sticking straight up
in the ground with leaves and
branches. The French had a word
for it; they called it'a “tree” which
the American has borrowed, and
with characteristic spunk and
originality, uses the word tree to
mean a long wooden thing sticking
straight up in the ground with
leaves and branches,

Once the tree has been brought
home, it is cut to size and taken in
the house to the traditional corner,
Tken with a quick movement of
the lips, the trimmer takes the tree
outdoors again and cuts off any-
where from six inches to a foot and
a half, since ceilings are generally
much lower than the average male

| estimates.

Again in the traditional corner,
a tree holder is fitted to its base.
A tree holder is a three-legged in-
strument of torture with one leg
two inches shorter than the others
and broken. Once the tree is up-
right, the trimmer carefully adjusts
the screws and in judging perpendi-
cularity allows for a cone in the
cornea and needles down the neck.
He then releases the trunk and
steps back to see how it looks.

The broken glass need not be
swept up until the tree is trimmed,
when he takes care of the needles
that have fallen at the same time.
As for the box labeled “Ornaments
and Lights,” this is in the attic,
under and just to the left of the
beach umbrella, deck chair and
steamer trunk. It doesn’t contain
the ornaments and lights, however,
but instead several hundred Christ-
mas cards that were put in there
just before company came that Sun-
day in January last year. The orna-
ments are in the large paper sack
with the black penciled letters,
“Billy’s outgrown football uniform,
save for Salvation Army.”

(Continued On Page Four)

THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX:

Is O. D. K’s. Program Practical?

Dear Bryan Robinson:

The two recent articles on the
purposes and program of ODK
have proven to be very interesting
and very thought provoking. In the
first article the organization and its
purposes were defined and outlined;
in the second a program was formu-
lated to carry out the ideals of the
organization. In the following
paragraphs there is going to be an
attempt to analyze the program,
the ideals of the program and the
relationship between the two.

As outlined the three general pur-
poses of ODK seem to be: (1) to
recognize leadership in a number
of important fields of college life,
(2) to bring together a repres :nta-
tive group which can mould senti-
ment, (3) to form a meeting ground
for members of the faculty and stu-
dent body, These purposes are based
on the belief that it is important for
students to develop toward a com-

plete personality through partici-
pation in useful and constructive
activities.

With the realization that ODK
means something besides being on a
pedestal it seemed that the organi-
zation had finally come to life and
would become a vital part of the
college life. However, the proposed
program which was outlined in the
second article indicated that in
some instances the underlying prin-
ciples of ODK were lost sight of
completely and that some propo-
sals were made merely to give an
appearance of being active.

In the first place the last part of
proposal number 1 which is,“ ...
to agitate for the admitting of a
Negro student into the student
body” is about the most impracti-
cal idea that has been brought
forth since perpetual motion. I
submit that a Negro on this campus
would be the unhappiest person

(Continued On Page Four)

NAT DANIEL:

Is So-Called Plan Of Action
O. D. K’s. Or Robinson’s?

In fast week's

Davidsonian, | the student body and among ad-

Bryan Robinson, president of ODK, | ministrators, faculty and trustees.

published under the heading “ODK,
peaks,” a program of what may
be loosely termed progress, the
greater part of which seéms to have
had itg inception within the fertile
mind of Mr. Robinson himself.

Some of the members of
ODK had voiced the personal
approval of some of the points
of this so he took the
liberty of publishing it, with
the implication that it was
backed by ODK as an organ-
ization, when in actuality it
wasn't at all. Now Mr. Robin-
son fully intended to make clear
to the public that the program
was his own and not ODK’s,
but he didn’t, and thereby
created a very regrettable sit-
uation.

But ignoring for the time being

| Mr. Robinson's improprietious use

of the personal opinions of some
of our campus leaders, and looking
at the program as he presented it,
it comes to our attention that
ODK'’s president also made four
glaring blunders in the actual pre-
sentation of his plan.

First, and foremost, Mr, Robin-
son grossly oversimplified the prob-
lems surrounding point
seven, the admission of a Negro
to Davidson. On the college level
in the South in 1951 a Negro would
have no trouble in classes, in
chapel, vespers, etc.~that is on the
academic level—but the social level
is another matter. Besides, it is
seriously doubtful that a Negro of
the caliber we'd want here would
enter Davidson after taking into
consideration the narrowness, prej-
udices, and anti-racial feelings in

number |.

In all probability he would enter
some good northern or western
liberal arts college where he could
get a better education without hav-
ing to buck the social order. In
short, it would do him more harm
than good.

Mr. Robinson’s second mistake
occurred when he made issues out
of four positions of the status quo
which might well have been left
alone. It is admitted that on first
reading the professorial oath sounds
narrow and overly restrictive, but
closer examination reveals a good
many ambiguous words and phrases
which may be interpreted to per-
mit little or no restriction of
thought-provoking ideas from the
classroom. Due to a careful screen-
ing process, most of the men hired
by the college believe in protes-
tantism and the, basic beliefs of
Southern Presbyterianism, and can
honestly subscribe to the oath.

As to the student govern-
ment, it appears to be function-
ing effectively at present. Here
we have an organization, ©
which, more than any single
institution at Davidson adapts
itself to changing trends readily.

amnendments ‘which have been
enacted since 1948,

Thirdly, this restatement of edu-
cational ideas, etc., seems to be
superfluous, and actually a sort of
ambiguous, high. flown, padding of
the program. Most of us know why
we come to college, and another
restatement of these aspirations and
ideals probably won't change our
Purposes no matter how enlightened
or absurd they may ‘be.

Just consider the number of .-

Mr. Robinson's last unnecessary
issue is this business of cuts, with
special references to double cuts. If
he carries out his plan of investiga-
tion, he will probably discover that
many schools similar to Davidson
have a cut system which includes
double cuts, or worse, permits no
absences before and after holidays.
Perhaps this business of cuts on
the basis of classes is unfair, but
a cut system is an evil from the
student's point of view, no matter
how it is operated, and he is always
going to gripe about it.

The third mistake Mr. Robin-
son made was also an unfor-
tunate breach of etiquette, In
four instances he came out as
supporting and initiating pro-
grams which the organizations
directly concerned have already
undertaken-he'’s guilty of
jumping on somebody else’s
bandwagon.

Already, down in fraternity court,
Hell Week is on the way out. The
college administration, fraternity
national offices, and the local chap-
ters have done a commendable job,
and ODK's president, running
about six months behind time, could
be attempting to horn in on the
glory after the dirty work has been
done, and a real program already
well on its way toward a success-
ful consummation.

The Red Cross blood drive in
Davidson has for the past two
years been in the hands of one of
the most efficient and conscientious
organizers in the business, and long
before ODK expressed its sponsor-
ship of the blood drive, the pre-
liminary plans had been laid and
all was in readiness for the big

(Continued On Page Four)

EDITOR'S MAIL:

446 Pints Top
Blood Record

Dear Mr. White:

Please allow me to express to
the Student Body, through the Da-
vidsonian, my deep appreciation,
and I am sure that of the Red
Cross as well, for the superb re-
sponse given the Blood Drive here
Monday.

A new record was set for the en-
tire Charlotte area, and indeed, for
this portion of the State, with a
figure of 446 pints. And I am sure

that the figure would have been

even larger had there been addi-
tional time available. The total was
obtained in just slightly over the
six hours which were allotted by
the Red Cross. Over 90 per cent of
the collection was contributed by
the Wildcats (the remainder by
townspeople), and a good many
would-be donors had to be turned
away due to lack of time.

I would like especially to thank |.

publicly ODK for its fine work in
promoting the drive and the social
fraternities for their superb sup-
port. Three of the fraternities, Phi
Delta Theta, Phi Gamma Delta and
Pi Kappa Phi are understood to
have contributed their entire mem-
berships, and many other fraterni-
ties were close beliind. Shortly after
school opened in the fall, by the
way, Phi Gamma Delta expressed
the desire to me to lay their fra-
ternity “on the line” on the next
blood drive.

Davidson’s student body has
made a record of which you can be
justly proud—and the boys in Korea
are proud of you, too.

JAMES L. BALLARD, JR.
Lt. Col., Infantry
PMS&T

DICK ROPER:

Pearl Harbor

Anniversary;

Ten Years of Destruction

Today should be some sort of a
milestene in our country’s history.
For it was exactly ten years ago
today that the Japanese took knife
in hand and plunged it into Ameri-
ca’s, back at Peart Harbor. On De-
cember 7, 1941, we entered into a
universal conflict which was to cost
us more than 250,000 dead, more
hundreds of thousands wounded
and maimed, and the rest of the
world millions of casualties.

During the four years the United
States was at war hardship and
heartbreak were the rule rather
than the exception. The physical
suffering of the men who won the
war was little greater than the ner-
vous strain and mental agony that
was suffered on the home front by
friends and loved ones who never
knew that they would not receive
a telegram which began, “The War
Department regrets to inform you

The yet untold horror and suf-
fering of World War II would be
enough to fill thousands of vol-
umes. But. these four years of hell
gave us one important thing: ex-
perience. If experience is the best

Jteacher, the world should have
learned one thing—war avails us

nothing, .

Knowing this, we open the morn-
ing paper hopefully and what do we
find? We find that practically the
whole free world is again involved
in a struggle against a ruthless ag-
gressor on a putrefying little Asiatic
peninsula, We do not think of it
as anything on the scale of World
War II. But with more than 100,-
000 casualties already suffered we

see that it is enough; it will serve

the purpose of a major war as far
as the people involved are con-
cerned. And they are many.

Several years ago a war corre-
spondent by the name of Ira Wol-
fert wrote an essay entitled
“Guadalcanal Testament,” one of
the most terribly beautiful pieces,
we believe, written about the
Second World War. In it Mr.
Wolfert says:

“There is one thought that is
common to all men who put on.a
uniform ... It is that there should
not and must not ever again be
another war.”

When we learned that war proves
nothing, Mr, Wolfert says, that was
an inch of progress, But how many
more inches do we have to go? We
have our United Nations Organiza-
tion which is doing its best at the
present time. And we continually
have all sorts of peace plans and
disarmament proposals cropping up
as the solution to all problems. But
all the international collaboration
and diplomatic doings that are go-
ing on are not going to help any-
body.

Unfortunately, the last inch of
progress is going to be the hardest.
It seems improbable that the world
will attain it at any time soon, and
if we were able to let our true feel-
ings show, we would say that it is
well nigh impossible to get there.
That last inch is, simply enough,
Good Faith—faith in the other man.

Until we can trust the other guy
not to go around shooting things
at us, we will have wars. In the
meantime, our milestone doesn’t

seem much like a milestone at all.

Robinson Clarifies And Adds To Platform

Last week’s article has produced
quite a bit of comment, I hope that
the interest aroused will not die
with just talking. I hope that some
action can be taken either pro or
con on every point presented. Let
me stress again that that program
was not presented for Scademic in-
terest only. We are interested in
seeing something done with regard
to every point.

The first project mentioned needs
some clarification. It read as if
ODK were the organizing force be-
hind the changeover from Hell
Week to Help Week. The Pan Hel
s the organizing force, and ODK
is backing them.

Since last week, two additional
projects have been added to our
list. One concerns the telephone

situation in the dorms. Many stu-
dents feel that there should be at
least two telephones in each dorm,
and three in Duke. A committee has
been appointed and is investigating
the possibilities of putting in ad-
ditional telephones. Maintenance
costs, wiring costs, and administra-
tive approval must be investigated.
The other concerns our election
system. Some students have ex-
pressed to me dissatisfaction with
the present set-up because they feel
it does not prepare them for real-
istic politics. An examining com-
mittee, to study and present both
sides will be appointed in the near
future, and the tentative date that
the conclusions will be presented
to the student body via the David-
sonian is March 29.

Next week's article will concern
the professorial oath. The actual
oath will be printed, and both sides
of the case will be discussed, one
by Jack Hunter and myself, and
the other by a prominent faculty
member, I hope. On January 18,
ODK hopes to make a recom-
mendation to the student body and
the Board of Trustees concerning
this oath. The January 4 issue of
the Davidsonian will carry a com-
pleted list of all committees and
activities for the remainder of the
year.

One project is now completed.

hat one was the blood drive. We
would like to commend the student
body for the fine turn-out and
spirit they showed.
