The “young’’ fellow
pictured on this page is
receiving a commenda-
tion for his long and un-
heralded work in the
athletic department of
the college. The fellow
giving the honors is the
‘ man we're going to be
gs, talking about, this time.
When Auburn Lam-
“em beth trots out on the
field up at State College
today, and takes up his
familiar post out in left
field, it will be the last

2. time he will be playing

By DICK LILES in an athletic contest
representing Davidson College. For four seemingly short years,
Auburn's name has been synonymous with athletics at David-
son, On the football field and. the baseball diamond, he has
starred individually and as one of the greatest team players in
the history of athletics here. Many times he has “given’’ more
than his share of hustle and spirit and taken more than his
share of the knocks and bruises. Always he has given his all
and has exemplified the Davidson spirit in every sense of the
word.

Aubie has won too numerous honors to be repeated
here, but just a few can hardly be passed by. In his sopho-
more year he led the nation in passing for the first three
or four weeks and ended up high in the list of national
passers. Johnny Lujack and Bobby Layne were only two
of his competition. Despite the weak team of ‘49, he still
placed high in passing and was again mentioned for All-
State and All-Conference honors. This past year was a fit-
ting climax for an outstanding career for he was named
on the second team All-Conference and was first team
All-State choice of the Greensboro Daily News. He also
entered a select circle when he completed 217 passes for a
three-year college career.

In baseball for the last three years, he has been 1 dependa-
ble fielder and a consistent hitter. Although plagued by an old
thigh injury since mid-season, he was right in the game. Coach
Packard had high praise for Auburn during the entire season
and depended on him greatly to help mold the young team into
a smooth-working outfit.

We'll borrow a much-used term of the present time and say
that ‘‘old athletes never die,” and that can be dittoed, for long
after he has made his place in the world, Auburn Lambeth ‘will
be remembered for his feats and spirit while wearing the old
red and black. .

‘“‘AND MORE ORCHIDS”

While we're on the subject, it would only be fitting and
proper to mention a few of the outstanding senior sportsmen
that won't be with us next year. Davidson College ‘will certainly
miss these boys, because the crop this year is unusually out-
standing.

Dutch Hengeveld closes out his career as an outstanding
cager and baseballer when he gets his sheepskin in June. Dutch
has played all his four years and has been a very stellar pitcher
for the baseball set and a very effective and aggressive guard
for the court fives. Next to Whit Cobb, he ranks as one of the
best basketballers in many years.

Playing right with Dutch in the winter was Tommy
Haller. Tommy has also been a two-sport man, dividing his
time between track and basketball. He was an outstanding
forward on Coach Baird’s cage teams and won the Merchant
Trophy last year for most points scored in track. Tom is a
real competitor at heart and although he didn’t come out for
track this year, he realized his great love and played for
his fraternity in volleyball and softball. He was past co-
captain of the cage team along with Hengeveld.

Coming along, Bill Pritchett and Blake Bradley close out
their athletic work in the track paths. Pritch has done some

outstanding hurdling and Blake has been hot on the long dis-| Beta

tance and on the cross-country team. Ken Goodpasture al-
ways comes throngh on the 100 and was recently second in the
Carolina Relays. He always is close to the 10-second mark.
Coach Whittle will certainly miss these boys, along with the
student body.

Bill Ray also departs with the coming of June, but he
leaves the honor to Davidson for the winner of the 50-yard
dash in the Southern Conference meet at Carolina. It is the
first time that such an honor has been won by a Davidsonian
in a long while. He certainly will be missed for his great swim-
ming ability.

Last and least in statue, but not in spirit and ability, is
Monty Hill. The “Flower” has been touring the links a long
time for ‘ole Davidson, and he has always been right at the top.
He is one of the finest little golfers in the Southern Conference
and the place he vacates will take a lot of filling to say the least.

FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1951

¢

’

ON: ER

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

Cinders End Season| F@¥

Meeting State Crew] °

By BILL SLEDGE

Tomorrow afternoon the Da-
vidson cindermen play host to the
strong Wolfpack squad from N. C.
State in the final meet of the sea-
son. Davidson, after losing to Clem-
son last Saturday by the slim mar-
gin of six points, would like very
much to complete their season with
a victory.

Blake Bradley should find State's
mile competition very tough, since
the wolfpack boasts the Sonthern
Conference champion in the mile
run; they also have excellent
weight men, but Bill McNeely, Don
Lazenby. Andy Horne, and Gene
Pierce should prove to be a good
match for them.

Coach Whittle’s squad seems to

be in good shape and very eager.

to come out on top tomorrow. Some
of ‘the boys—Ken Goodpagsture,
Blake Bradley and Bill Pritchett—
to mention a few—will be running
for the last time at Davidson. Ken
Goodpasture was nosed, out last
week at Clemson. He lost to 9.9
seconds. in the 100-yard clash, run-
ning a 10-flat 100 himself—his best
time of the year.

Bob Henry, the leading 880° man,
has come very‘close to bettering 2
minutes in that event and is
banked on to do so tomorrow.

With a fast track and no injuries
Davidson should manage a victory
in their last meet.

Frat Softballers
Closing Out Season

The interfraternity softball
league swings into the last week of
action this week with the Sigma
Chis and Betas tied for first place
with 7-1 records. They are followed
closely by the Kappa Sigs with a
7-2 record. With the addition of
two new diamonds on the golf
course five games are played each

day, and the = softball schedule
is being run off much quicker this
year:

So coming into the home stretch
it will be the Sigma Chi teamwork
and the Beta and Kappa Sig batting
power fighting it out for the title.

The standings through round 9
are:

Team W L
Sigma Chi -..-...------- 7 1

w-------- ae | 1
Kappa Sig -.__- 7 2
SPE __....--..---.-.-.--- 5 3
Phi Delt --22..22-2.._.. 4 3
KA W222 eee eee 3 4
Pi Kappa Phi -....-.--.-- 2 4
Pikas ..-.---..--.--.----- 3 5
Phi Gams ....-.....-....- 2 6
SAE ..........------.--- 1 6
ATO .....-------.------+ 0 7

“How did the Smith wedding go
off?” —

“Fine, until the parson asked the
bride if she’d obey her husband.”

“What happened then?”

“She replied. ‘Do you think Pm
crazy” and the groom, who was in

ove

a sort of daze, replied, ‘I do’.

The Best Dressed Men at Davidson Wear

Jack Wood, Ltd.

rll

CLOTHES

It Costs No More To Dress Correctly

it
-

— 1e =

—

THANKS, AUB !

Athletes Hear Wade;
Get Letters, Awards

By WALLACE ABBOTT

On Monday night, May 7th, the
Athletic Department of Davidson
College sponsored’ the first All-
Sports Banquet, and from the com-
ments of the students in attend-
ance it. was a tremendous success.
This all-sports banquet is some-
thing new for Davidson, because
in the past, they have had separate
banquets for each sport.

Guest of honor for the banquet
was the new Commissioner of the
Southern Conference, Wallace
Wade, and he spoke on a subject of
interest to all college sports parti-
cipants, “The Influence of College
Athletics on Citizenship.” One of
the most, important phases of his
talk was the statement that college
athletics extend their influence, not
only to the athletes themselves and
their close followers, but .to. the
entire world,

The’ first speaker on the pro-
gram was Dr. Cunningham, who
issued a cordial word of welcome
to all guests, both from the student
body and adjoining towns. Follow-
ing Dr. Cunningham's remarks Mr.
David E. LaFar, Chairman of the
Athletic Council, spoke a few words
of welcome and commendation to
the students in attendance.

The next point of interest, on this
very extensive program, was the
presentation of awards to the stu-
dents who were invited. Among
the more notable of the awards
that were presented wis the Acm-
field Blocking Trophy, given to
the niember of the football team
who in the opinion of the coaches
was the best blocker. The Trophy
this year was awarded to Jim Fas-
ul, but was accepted by Johnny
Guiton, since Jim is in the Armed
Forces,

Other awards were presented to
the members of athletic squads,
who attained either state, confer-
ence or national fame. Auburn Lam-
beth is'to be presente? wiih a tro-
phy for his achievements as a pas-
ser. Auburn, as is well known, is
listed 'among the ten best passers
of our time. The other trophies
presented went to Bill Ray and
Francis Pepper in swimming and
to several members of the, wrest-
ling team.

The very gala banquet was
closed when Auburn Lambeth pre-
sented Doc White with a gift cer-
tificate for $50 on behalf of the
D Club, for his ieval service and
devotion to the athletes of David-
son College, both present and past.

Teacher: “Billy, what is a flood?”
Billy: “A river too big for its
bridges.”

Daughter: “Should I marry a
mar who can take a joke?”

Mother: “That's the only kind
you'll get.”

Son: “Dad I think I will settle
down and raise chickens.”

Father: “Better raise owls. Their
hours will suit you better.”

Neighbor: “When is your sister
thinking of getting married.”
Little Brother: “Constantly.”

wildcat Sports
NCE .OURNEY BEGINS

, Fy Barton's Cats Defend Tennis Title
, |Against Seven Strong Contenders

BILL BROOKS
ELECTED BASKETBALL

CAPTAIN

PAGE THREE

; By DICK ROPER
Sir Derrick Barton's Wildcat racqueteers were eliminated

—— |from the singles division of the Southern Conference tennis

tournament in the first day of play yesterday afternoon. Allan
Strand, number one man on the Cat net team was defeated by
John Tapley of Duke, 7-5, 6-3, in a semi-final match. Strand was
the last Davidson netter to be
eliminated.

In the doubles division, however,
local hopes were kept alive by

from the singles division earlier in
the afternoon, defeated a duo from
West Virginia in a twilight match.
Wade and Crosland earlier won a
maich from Duke by scores of
6-3, 6-3,

Those remaining undefeated at
the end of yesterday’s play were .
Del Sylvia, University of North
Carolina; George Larkin, William
and Mary; Keston Deimling, Duke;
Ronnie Barnes, William and Mary;
Buddy Agar, U.N.C.; John Tapley,
Duke; and John Ross, Duke.

Roth doubles and singles events
were continued this morning at
9:00. The final matches will be
played ‘tomorrow.

Other conference teams besides
Davidson to be eliminated in the
singles division were N. C. State
West Virginia, and Maryland.

BULLETIN—Davidson was
still in the running for the
doubles title in me Southern
Conference Tennis Tournament
at goon today. Allan Strand
and Dewey Keesler defeated
Charles Kehoe and Walter
Childs by scores of 6-3, 6-2, in a
match played this morning.
Strand and Keesler and the
other Wildcat duo remaining
in the doubles race, John Cros-
land and Ham Wade, were ex-
pected to play - semi-final
matches this afternoon.

Strand, Dewey Keesler, Ham Wade
and John Crosland. Strand and
«Keesler, who was also eliminated

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

Number 21...
THE PELICAN

Our easy-going, big-billed friend has learned to say “No” 9

to these hurry-up, one-puff, one-sniff cigarette tests! “Why”, says he,

“they don’t even give you time to finish the cigarette before you’re supposed

to decide which is mildest!” Millions of smokers have come to the same conclusion

—there’s just one real way to test the flavor and mildness of a cigarette!

It’s the sensible test .. . the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test,
which simply asks you to try Camels as a steady smoke—
on a pack-after-pack, day-after-day basis. No snap judgments
needed! After you’ve enjoyed Caniels—and only
Camels—for 30 days in your “T-Zone”

(T for Throat, T for Taste), we believe you'll know why...

More People Smoke Camels
than any other cigarette!

4
Z
7]
5
2
u

