pagB TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ----.....-......------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER .......-- ------------- JOHN LOFTIN
Associate Editors ---..--- Tom Mann, Jini Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor .....--.--.--- ----------------+- Shelley Beard
Managing Editors cee ween Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George

McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott

City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickessen
Sports Editor—Bill White

Assitant Business Manager ---.---------- —---------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager ~-.------------------- Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager ---.----.--------------------- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager -..-~-.---.------------------- Jack Turner

Subscriptions Manager ..---.--------- ------------ === Bill Hart

Faculty Advisor—Prof. Henry T. Lilly

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N.-C.. under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Sunday Evening Mystery

Picture yourself swallowed up in a comfortable easy
chair before an open fire. On a little table beside you there
is a plate where nothing is left but crumbs of delicious
cake and an empty coffee cup. You relax yourself com-
pletely and turn your attention to the conversation which
is‘ wandering aimlessly and delightfully over basketball,
the 1951 Packard, Walt Whitman’s poetry, sex, Joe’s trip
to the West Coast, Professor Blank’s war experiences, and
on and on. Finally someone who hasn’t read his psychology
for !Monday manages to drag his friends back to the dorm-
itories.

Here is one of Davidson's choicest luxuries. Every
Sunday evening about ten. members of the faculty under-
take to make their homes ours for an hour or two. The
mystery is that so few of us take advantage of it. Is it be-
cause of a natural diffidence which makes us fear the
title of applepolisher? Is it because of some boring exper-
ience ‘which someone has had at a professor’s home? Or
is it that each one of us is so wrapped up in his own little
world that he is not interested in anything which is not
entirely within his microcosm?

If it is that last, then there is not much hope for you.
Even if you did visit a professor you would find little to
interest you and he would consider you extremely dull.
But if you are a victim of the first two misconceptions,
let us offer you some advice, visit men who do not have
you in their classes, especially your former pyofessors. You
-will find that they enjoy making your acquaintance all
‘over again, just as you will. Shop around for a few Sun-
days. Some homes you may want to visit only once. Others
will draw you back again and again.

As soon as a little of the novelty has worn off so that
you can relax and be your natural self, you will be on the
the trail of the finest source of bull sessions in any area
of Davidson life. —J.J.M.

Spectator Sickness

Anyone ‘who knows much about this little Presbyterian
school realizes that traditions of one kind or another have
played a major role in making Davidson what we like to
think it is today. We believe that the reputation Davidson
students have had through the years for their conduct at
athletic contests is one of the most important and one
which stands in a very real danger of being relegated into
obscurity.

This problem is most acute during basketball. season
when fans are huddled together in a smaller space and the
yeneral pitch of the game is such that spectators tend to
become overly enthusiastic at times, booing the officials
and making cat calls in the direction of the visiting team.
Such has been the tendency of Davidson students thus far
this season, though only three games have been played in
Johnston Gymnasium. It is not diffienlt to envisage what
the pattern will be later on in the year unless changes are
made and quick.

It is unfortunate when an unbiased spectator at a ball
game leaves the game with such an impression as a U.N.C.
student had ‘who attended the State-LaSalle contest last
week. He said, ‘‘The action of the State students who were
in attendance at the contest added to LaSalle’s troubles.
Not only did the State fans, cheer loudly every time Sam-
my Ranzino and his cohorts moved the ball legally, but
booed, hissed and waved their fists at the officials when
they called the Agriculture School boys for attempting
10 move it illegally.

Every time traveling, double dribbling or a like offense
was charged up against State, the reaction was something

>

DAVIDSON,

BLESSED § LEE P,

9:35 MONDAY MORNING.

THE

222 22

—, , ) Nn
—e,

How Sweer
THe TROUGHT..

WAX SCRATCHINGS

By BOB WHEELES

Since this column began back in
September just about every type of
music has at least been touched
upon, every type but. one, New
Orleans Jazz. To cover such a
broad and fascinating subject would
be impossible in these few para-
graphs, so I've chosen to write
about one of the more famous of
the old time jazzmen. You might
call this a success story with a
different twist. It’s all about a
fellow with determination, a trump-
et and a set of false teeth.

Once upon a time, in 1879 to be
exact, there was born to a Creole
family in New Orleans a son. As
he was only another addition to a
family of thirteen the incident met
with little notice. Even so he had
to have a name and after a time
his parents decided on Willie G.
Johnson.

He went to school for ten years
and it was during this time that
he learned to play a trumpet. After
finishing school in 1894, “Bunk,” as
he had come to be called, got a
job working for Buddy Bolden.
Bolden was the acknowledged king
of cornet players in a city that was
famous for its musicians. He was
so powerful that they say he could
be heard on a clear night ten miles
across Lake Pontchartrain.

The jazz bands played for prac-

tically every occasion of any im-
portance. Parties, dances, weddings
and even funerals. A large proces-
sion was guaranteed at all funerals
for the mourners were always
joined by a host of others who
though not familiar with the de-
ceased, nevertheless, loved good mu-
sic regardless of the occasion.

‘Music rivalry was extremely
keen in those days, and rival bands
engaged in fights not infrequently.
While one band was playing an
engagement another would collect
about a window, outside and attempt
to play louder and better.

After Bolden, Bunk's next im.
portant stop was with the Frankie
Dusen Eagle Band, and it was

while playing in this group that
Bunk took over as King of the
New Orleans cornetists. It was
also during this period that Bunk
met a youngster named Louis Arm-
strong who followed him every-
where he went. Louis persuaded
Bunk to teach him to play the
cornet and they would play hours
at a time until as Bunk put it:
“Louis begin understanding me
real good. It was a short while
before he could play the blues .. .
then music become easy to him,
by head, by car, Louis could play
anything he could whistle.”
While playing an engagement
with the Eagtes in the little town
of Rayne, Louisiana, the leader of
the Eagles was killed in a fight
and Bunk’s horn was destroyed.
This and the fact that he was loos-
ing his teeth prompted Bunk to
give up music entirely, and he went
to work in the Louisana rice fields.
For ten years Bunk remained
out of the music business and for-
gotten, then he was contacted by
Writer William Russell concerning
some research for the book “Jazz.
men.” In the course of a letter
answering the inquiry Bunk re-
marked that given new teeth and

a trumpet, he could “really go yet.” .

The writer sent him the requested
articles and a recording by re-
turn mail proved that he could
“really go yet.” He was taken to
New Orleans where he was an im-
mediate success. The same was true
in San Francisco where he gave a
series of concerts and played with
his pupil, Louis Armstrong, when
his band came to that city.

And so grey-haired, ebony Bunk
went on to become one of the
really great mien in American mu-
sic. What's that? You say you've
never heard of Bunk Johnson. Well
maybe you haven't, and maybe
you've never tasted the savory cre-
ole foods in New Orleans, but
they’re both a yery important part
of our American heritage. So you
see, he’s a pretty important fellow.

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) Should satellite forces fail in an invasion of Yugoslavia, there is a
strong likelihood of direct Soviet attack according to many observers in

Europe.

2) Baron Mannerheim, tormer President of Finland, died at the age of 84.

3) Industrial federations taking part in the Schuman plan for uniting
Western European heavy industries rejected the basic step of granting
wide power to a supra-national organization.

4) The resignation of two party deputies was viewed as evidence of the
spread of Titoism among Italian Communists.

S$) Land reform in Iran received impetus by the agreement that peasants
working on royal estates can buy property.

6) Meat rations in Britain were cut another 20 percent, making a total
reduction of 60 percent within two months.

7) It was announced that CARE will distribute thirty-five million dol-
lars worth of food in Yugoslavia within the next six months.

8) The branding of Communist China as aggressor in Korea, though
regarded as momentous by some, was considered indeterminative by

others,

9) Premier Pleven’s conference with President Truman has mainly been
an affirmation of “the fundamental unity between the U. S. and France.”
10) U.N. froops continued their slow advance in Korea, and a special

drive was begun on the central front.

akin to that of the average American after he heard what «—

happened at Pearl Harbor. Fouls charged against LaSalle,
of course, brought approval of the State assemblage.”

We can add ‘‘ditto’’ to these sentiments ‘with regard
to the conduct of the Clemson fans during last Saturday
night’s Clemson-Davidson game at the South Carolina
Cow Collegy

These two examples are indication enough that this
spectator sickness which Davidson students are fast show-
ing symptoms of acquiring is generally widespread. How-
ever, it is our hope that some corrective prescription can
be found before this acute illness becomes chronic on our
campus.

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

1. To abolish the double-cut system.

2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors

regardless of their age.

4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and

the college at large.

5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speak.

ore.

7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.

9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.
To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student

DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1951

Music With Hansen

By HENRY HANSEN

Sometime ago an article by me appeared
in which I suggested that the quality of the
movie product presented by the local theatre
sometimes left something to be desired. This
is a situation which the manager of a motion
‘picture theater finds it almost impossible to
avoid. Certain pictures must be shown whether
the manager approves of them quality-wiso or
not and, in addition, he often has no advance
knowledge of the pictures he shows. These
reasons are cogent to the problem but their
result in movie fare is unaltered—unless the
diseriminating fan would leave all critical fac-
ulties at home and go for the purpose of what
psychology calls catharsis or escape and what
the average person calls getting away from
it all, he is bound to be somewhat disappointed
by ‘what he sees.

For that reason the films that have been
and will be shown by the United Literary Film
Society are doubly welcome in the menu of film
fare, locally speaking, which many consider
unadulterated pap. For the same reason those
faculty members and_ students who have
worked on this project should be thanked
heartily for what they have done to provide
stimulating presentations in a medium which,
since it must cater to all, is so often sadly
abused.

_ The last film shown, ‘‘Quartet,” a movie
version of four of Somerset Maugham’s short
stories, was an excellent production. If you
like Maugham then it is hardly conceivable
that you did not like the picture since it was
faithful to the originals. More than this it had
that freshness of approach and lack of stock
situations and emotions which characterize
pictures of this quality.

Most important, perhaps, is the kind of
discussion stimulated by such pictures. Almost
any movie crowd will discuss a picture after-
wards. However, their comments generally di-
vide themse!ves into two opinions. Either it

was a good picture, which is apt to mean that
it was relatively successful in straining out
a new approach to an old situation, or else it
was a bad one which often means that the
relatively low degree of subtlety in doing the
aforementioned has been above the capacity
of some of the audience to penetrate. The type
of picture presented by the Film Society is
valuable because it often provokes discussion
about ideas which is apt to lead to further in- |
dependent “thought on the part of those who
see these pictures. Also, it often leads to in-
dependent reading ‘whieh, if it serves no other
purpose, keeps critical faculties from being
dulled by an excessive Hollywoud diet. Many
other advantages might be cited but these are
enough to give an idea of the superiority of
such pictures.

The schedule for the rest of the year is
one which should continue the general level of
excellence which prevailed over the first se-
mester.

The films to be presented are:

March 2—The Grapes of Wrath.

March 16—Jane Eyre

April 6—The Mad Queen and Rembrandt.

April 13—Stoneflower.

April 20—Crime and Punishment

The attendance at these films has been
improving through the year, testifying both
to the fact of the excellence of the pictures
presented and to the appreciation of a stu-
dent body often maligned for having the kind
of bourgeois taste which is unable to appreciate
anything above the low common denominator
generally fixed by Hollywood. No one needs
to be urged to attend such pictures—they make
their own appeal. Hotwever, if you are looking
for entertainment on a high level, then one
of the best ways to ensure it is to purchase a
season ticket to the pictures presented by the
United Literary Film Society.

GEECH’S GOULASH

By PAT McGEACHY

Somebody said to us today,

“You're always philosophizing and dead.

They found for a year he'd been

Never get any glory;
But that’s a long story,

stuff. Why don’t you break down
and write something entertaining.”
Naturally we were quite flattered
that 1) somebody was kind enough
to describe the stuff we have been
putting out as philosophy and 2)
somebody thought we had remote
possibilities of entertainment in us.
So for the sake of proving him
wrong and also to moralize in a
negative sort of way, we offer the
following bit of poetry, exumed by
recent scholars from the musty ar-
chives of a nearby mausoleum, De-
spite their obvious classical origin,
we felt that they had a certain
bearing on the present, and so here
print them for the first time.
If you are concerned with your
studies,
And afraid you're among fuddy-
duddies,
Give a gander at this,
And be sure not to miss
The truth about all of your
buddies.

An unfortunate student is Bill,
Who'll succeed if anyone will.
If he’s looking much fatter,
It’s growth of grey matter,
But who ever heard of the pill?

An equally sad one is Chick,

Whose activities are extra-curick.

He does so much work

That when time comes to shirk,

He's too tired to get off of the
atick.

The saddest of all was poor Fred,
Who had so many facts in his head,
That he moved not at all,

Until one day last fall,

Feacher: “John, it gives me great
pleasure to mark you 85 on your
examination.”

John: “Miss Blank, why not
make it 100 and give yourself a
real thrill?”

Father: “Well, son, how are your
marks this semester?”

Son: “They’re under water.”

Father: “What do you mean—
under water?”

Son: “Below C level.”

Jack: “Wonder where he got the
idea he’s a professor. Everybody
hates him. He doesn’t have any idea
of how to teach. He starts off on
one subject and then veers to an-
other, and you can’t keep notes.”

Harry: “Yea, I flunked too.”

Judge: Who was driving with
you when you collided with that
car?

Student: (triumphantly) Nobody.
We were all in the back seat.

—Sloan

On the other hand there is Howie,

Who's sharp with his wits as a
bowie.

At phenomenal rates,

Howie-boy dissapates

At drinking and singing and
ZOWIE!

But the happiest one that we know

Is a languid young chap named
Joe Shmoe.

He’s wearing that grin,

For he’s majoring in

Lagger science, Sack time, and
the Show.

So we see at this point in the game,
That the happy ones whom we have
named

nn. a”

College Canteen

College of Charleston
Charleston, South Ceroling

And besides—Who gives two bits
for fame?

When we came to the last line
of this epic and found that question
just hanging there, we felt that it
ought to be answered. However
we do not feel that we ourselves
are qualified for such an under-
taking. Answer it, then, for your.
selves. If and when you arrive at
an answer in twenty-five words or
less, simply tear off the top of the
First National Bank and send it
in with your solution, plus $3.84 to
cover mailing charges, and you will
receive absolutely free our new edi-
tion of “How To Become .Notor-
iously Famous, in Ten Easy Les-
sons. Act Now!

In Charleston, South Carolina,
favorite gathering spot of students

at the College of Charleston, is the

College Canteen because it is a
cheerful place —full of friendly
collegiate atmosphere. And when
the gang gathers around, ice-cold
Coca-Cola gets the call. For here, es
in college haunts everywhere—Coke

belongs.

Ask for it either way... both
trade-marks mean the same thing,

_GOTMED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COOAOLA BOTTLING 00., OF CONCORD
