PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF --.----------------- BILL WHITE
*BUSINESS MANAGER -------------- JOHN LOFTIN

Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,
George McMurray

Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,
John Ottley

Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson

Associate Editors

Managing Editors -

ewan seoooe

Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Mahy

Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Proofreaders: Wallace Abbott and Dick Roper. ;
t—Business staff pending appointments by Publications Board.

eee cn
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., uader the Act of March 3, 1897,

No Highbrows Here

According to Chalmers Davidson we have just seen
the making of a new tradition on the campus. As far as
student reaction is concerned this new addition to the local
totem pole is an unfortunate one. Of course, the response
of the student body should not be the sole criteria in
judging the Art Festival but it must be one of the dominant
ones.

It is difficult to evaluate a program which does not
have an explicit purpose and the present one does not
seem to have any objective other than a display of high-
brow talent. That would be acceptable before a group of
highbrows, but most of the students of Davidson are not
highbrows and only a small number of them can begin to
appreciate the higher forms of art. To present such a
group with a concentrated helping of material that they
cannot even chew much less digest is a tremendous waste
of effort and only serves to create a mental block of
positive antagonism to anything faintly resembling higher
art.

Nobody enjoys hearing a thirty-minute recitation in
a foreign language which they do not understand. Like-
wise no one enjoys listening for thirty minutes to a pro-
gram based on music ‘which he does not understand and
eannot enjoy. The principle of art is aesthetic enjoyment
or rather pleasure from the beautiful. If an object of art
does not give pleasure to the beholder or listener it is not
beautiful. Of course, what gives pleasure is an individual
problem with an individual solution, but there are certain
works of art that are more acceptable to a wider number
of people than others. Therefore it seems that an Arts
Festival at Davidson should do at least one of two things.
It should make highbrow art interesting and enjoyable or
it should select art that is on a level that the average stu-
dent can appreciate.

To carry out the first objective it would be best to
base the entire observance around the life of a painter and
a composer. In this way continuity of interest sould be
given to each performance or program and the audience,
knowing the artist and the occasion of each work, would
have a more personal interest in what was being presented.
Also student performers should be called upon as much
as possible.

To carry out the second objective it would be neces-
sary to call in members of the student body to help plan
the programs. The result would probably be an observance
based on semi-classical and contemporary music and photo-
graphic art with some classical paintings.

Either change would be an improvement on a worth-
while program which so far has been backed by a great
deal of work and very little student interest —N.S.B. —

$50.00 ... One and All!

The past week was not one in which to rub the David-
son student the wrong way. He was at his low ebb mark
after the Frolics’ week-end, exams were looming just over
the last review, and an increasingly uncomfortable sun
was raising tempers along with temperatures. Least of all,
the Davidson student was in no mood for a tangle with
John Law.

But that is what several of them got. And like the
old mule who had taken about all he could take, he kicked.
The long arm of this particular law was only seven miles
long, reaching down from Mooresville through its Iredell
domain to the border just this side of Franks.’ The pinch
was for speeding, and the fine was $50 plus court costs,
first offense or no.

At first the Davidson defendants were quick to holler
discrimination, but the judge of the Mooresville recorder’s
court offered to open his books in order that the un-
believers might see that such was the standard fine for
all violators, be he collegian, clem, or cosmopolitan. They
are all speeders.

All being speeders, then, there is no discrimination
against the Davidson student, but what about the speed-
sterg themselyes. The Mooresville judge is said to have had
a $25 fine in existence, only to have to raise it to $50
when he had so many repeaters. That seems justifiable for
second offenders—with some stretch of the imagination,
but why should it be standard for all violators, particularly
first offenders, just because some pedal pushing racer
wants to violate and pay time and againf While well with-
in the limits of the law of this state, Mooresville’s charges
are woefully excessive of most of those with which we are
familiar. Graduated fines certainly seems the just man-
ner in which to reprimand repeaters and at the same time
give fairness to first offenders.

Also, by some strange doings of the recently elected
N. ©. legislature, any request at Mooresville for trial by

(Continued On Page Four)

THB DAVIDSONIAN

TENNIS

a RESS
LASS °*° 2

ry

Wax Scratching

By BOB WHELESS

Billy Eckstine’s “I Apologize” is becoming
more popular day by day, and rightly so, for it
is definitely one of the top recordings of the
day. Billy is at his singing best, and for a man
who has turned out as many hits as “Mr. B”
that’s saying something. The flip side “Bring
Back The Thrill’ is good, but not nearly so
well suited to Billy's style as ‘‘E Apologize.”

“The Syncopated Clock’’ has been treated
to excellent arrangements by both David Rose
and Perey Faith. The song is a rather unusual
one as to subject matter, timing and tune, Early
trends seem to indicate that it’s destined for
better things.

The coffer of RCA Victor is filling rapidly
thanks to the suecess with which Ralph Flanni-
gan’s latest waxing “Slow Drive” has met. It’s
done up in that inimitable Flannigan manner
that makes any song a hit, or at least gives it
a head start on a less fortunate etching.

Mindy Carson has just cut a nice little hunk
of shellac for Victor labeled ‘‘Gotta Find Some-
body To Love.’ Could be that this mellodie ren-
dition is all this oldie needs to stage a comeback.
Flip it over and you'll find ‘‘When You and I
Were Young Maggie Blues.’’ Incidentally, this
side features the clinker of the year as made
by Stan Freeman, an outstanding recording
pianist. I guess it was done on purpose, or pos-
sibly they left it in there for kicks after Stan
slipped up.

It seems a week can't go by but what a new
King Cole number is released. This time it’s. that
oldie “Red Sails In the Sunset,’’ and Nat does
his usual smash up job on it, When yon think of
Nat these days most fellows immediately think
of “Too Young’, which I consider the greatest
number he has ever made. I’m sure many of you
will agree with me.

It’s difficult to comment on “‘The Hot Can-
ary”, one of the up and coming novelty tunes

of the day. About the only word that describes
it is ‘‘different.’’ Paul Weston has one of the
best arrangements of same, which features solo
violin ‘work by some fellow named Paul Nero.
No I don’t know if any of his relatives came
from Rome.

The flip side of Les Paul’s “How High the
Moon”’ is finally recetving some attention. The
song, “Walkin’ and Whistlin’ Blues” is only
mediocre and sounds like something Les cooked
up on the spur of the moment to fill in the space
on the other side of a very good tune.

The new Rogers and Hammerstein show
“The King and I’ has produced three very
pretty songs. Perry Como has recorded two of
them, “We Kiss In A Shadow” and ‘‘Hello
Young Lovers’’. Doris Day has waxed the for-
mer number also, and backed it with what I con-
sider the top tune of the show, “Something Won-
derful.”” Whether done by Perry or Doris all
three are hit parade material. You'll be hearing
lots of them from now on, and liking them too.

The new jump tune ‘‘Pretty Eyed Baby” as
done up by Jane Turzey is finding a home in
practically all the juke boxes these days. Many
a nickle will be spent on it this summer when
the beach bums hit the pavillion at O. D. and
Myrtle.

Several weeks ago I picked Dinah Shore’s
“Lonesome Gal” as a future hit. Well, as it
turned out the “gal’’ fizzled out, but the flip
side “Too Late Now’ seems to be going great
guns. It’s a sad, slow ditty from the flick ‘Royal
Wedding.”

Gary and Bing Crosby have combined talents
to make a revamping of the old favorite,  Moon-
light Bay”, a very pleasant tyne that seems to
be catching on quickly, What with all the teen-
age fans of Gary and the all age ones of Bing
the tune is bound to eatch on,

FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1951

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS
1, Which band did you like the best this year? .

www ewes meee ee ee enero oorooes

Thornhill -.-------

2. Do you think the tickets were fairly priced at the last dance

for the quality of music?

music ?

THE POT BOILS

By HENRY HANSEN

Ad infinitum, ad nauseam, arti-
cles on chapel conduct pile up. It
would seem that their effect is du-
bious since, as,is often the case,
those who should read them don’t.
Nevertheless, it would be a breach
of duty to let such behavior as oc-
curred in chapel Wednesday morn-
ing go unnoticed. In defense of
the students we can say two things:
first, chamber music is admittedly
not everyone's dish—even the musi-
cally initiate sometimes display a
surprising antipathy to it. Secondly,
it might be very plausibly argued
that such music is definitely not
suited to the barn-like proportions
of Chambers auditorium. However,
when every allowance has been
made there still remains a residue
of outright boorishness in the col-
lective behavior of the “Davidson
Gentleman,” which is rather dis-
couraging in its proportions.

Let us say of this residue, con-
sidering every extenuating circum-
stance, that it still remains what
it is—downright crude, discourte-
ous behavior. We do not plead here
that every student should become
an ardent devotee of the arts—far
from it. What we ask is that a
little mutual forebearance be dis-
played by groups whose basic in-
terests are conflicting. The asking
of this is admittedly a compromise
at best. Behind all this pleading for
courtesy in the presence of the
arts, religion, or any other activity
connected remotely or directly with
the supposed purpose of Davidson
as an educational institution looms
the startling fact that the purpose,
as stated in the catalogue, seems to
be remote indeed from the purpose
as evidenced by such behavior.

Place a few thoughts on these
facts. It matters not what the
activity; so long as it is non ath-
letic we can expect no more than
a bare ten or fifteen percent of the
student body to evince enough in-
terest to actually attend any func-
tion not devoted to athletics or to
display ordinary courtesy where at-
tendance is compulsory. Even at
such a relatively mundane affair,
culturally speaking, as the Goild-
man band concert, not more than
a hundred students were present.
Any day or night an inter-frater-
nity sports event can draw the bulk:
of the student body away from any
other activity, regardless of its pur-
pose or relation to education—that

seemingly lost cause at this and
many another institution. In com-
mon with a much castigated and
perhaps even more misunderstood
member of our faculty, we take no
soap box stand on the platform,
qdown with athletics,” far from it.
Athletic activities do have a place
in college life, Nevetheless, if it
comes to a choice between the
two, then our course is clear. If
Davidson is really an educational .
institution and not a physical ther-
apy club with pleasant and inno-
cuous educational overtones, we
must choose the educational func-
tion to complete exclusion of the
athletic, if that be necessary. We
do not believe that such a point
has been reached. We would natur-
ally prefer a natural and normal
balance between the two purposes,
the educational and the athletic.
We are also convinced that, what-
ever the basic reasons, the athle-
tic monopolizes far more time than
it should on this campus. Such a
monopolization cannot but hurt the
college as an educational institu-
tion.

Let’s get back to the basic goals
that were in mind in organizing
this or any other place of learning.
Davidson is an educational insti-
tution. Insofar as an athletic pro-
gram can maintain that goal, a
sound mind in a sound body, it is
a desirable facet of a college pro-
gram. But any extension of its
purpose beyond this goal is inevi-
tably injurious to the primary pur-
pose of a college or university.

Certainly the conduct in chapel
was atrocious on Wednesday and
on numerous other occasions. Cer-
tainly feelings were hurt in some
quarters. and tempers flared ex-
plosively in others, But let us cease
applying salve to something which
is more than likely merely a symp-
‘tom ‘of something far more serious
and deep-lying. Let’s dig right
down to the roots and determine
whether or not the present out-
look of the college is really sound.
With traditions falling right and
left and the Davidson gentlemen be-
having in a definitely ungentlemanly
manner we really begin to wonder
if. something isn’t wrong; wrong in
a basic sense, If it is, then it’s
high time we began to correct what-
ever evils are present. Tomorrow

will very probably be too late.

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) The British Parliament defeated 305-292 a Conservative Censure mo-

tion on the raw material shortage.

GEECH’S GOULASH

Jose Rodriguez enlisted in the
navy and went away to fight in the
Spanish-American war. However,
before he had been in action three
days, a stray Spanish shot demol-
ished his right leg, and he was
rushed to a state-side hospital.
There he made a valiant effort
to recover, but the doctors were
forced to amputate the leg, and fit
him out with a peg. This would
have broken a lesser man, but Jose
had a lot of salt and determined
to make something of the remaind-
er of his life. He went to college
and learned all that he could of
politics and government, and di-
plomacy and then set out to cam-
paign for governor. He made some
very convincing speeches, for he’
was pleasing and had a good po-
litical background, but no one ‘lis-
tened to him. It was really too luv
dicrous for a one-legged man, and
a Spaniard to try to run for gov-
ernor. No one attempted to learn
of Jose Rodriguez's abilities and
worth, nor of his bravery and pa-
tsiotism. And this is understandable.
Nearly everyone laughed uproari-
ously at the whole idea, and some
even threw vegetables at him;

By PAT McGEACHY

especially those who had not lis-
tened to his speeches. It was un-
thinkable that a man of his kind
(and one-legged to boot), could
lead a democratic state. It was
really a colossal joke, and the
newspapers began to speak of “Wy-
zona’s One-legged Governor.” Some
people nicknamed him “Long
John”, after Stevenson's character.
All this hurt Jose and his friends
very deeply, but there was nothing
they could do, of course. So Jose
was laughed out of the running,
and defeated by a very large mar-
gin. The humor of the situation was
long remembered in Wyzona poli-
tics. .

A group of highly talented mu-
sicians worked very hard, once, to
give something worth-while to a
group of college students. They
had a difficult task ahead of them,
for the music they wished to pre-
sent was [8th century, and not
many of the students understood
this type of music. But they did

‘a marvelous job. Most of the stu-

dents, of course, were a great deal
more interested in their own quips
and cranks than in Mozart, and
they did not give a “tinker” for

those who were, so they laughed.
It was really to ludicrous for a
concert, and especially a classical
one, to try to appeal to students.
No one attempted to appreciate the
Music’s worth, nor the industry and
skill of the artisans. And this is
understandable. Nearly everyone
laughed uproariously at the idea,
and some would even have thrown
vegetables, if they had had them;
especially those who would not try
to listen. It was unthinkable that
a program of this kind could ap-
peal to a bunch of regular fellows.
It was really a colossal joke; some
people began to call the clarinet
player “squeaky.” All this hurt the
musicians and their friends very
deeply, but there was nothing they
could do, of course. So they were
ignored out of the running, and
only about I percent of the stu-
dents enjoyed the concert, because
only a few of those who wanted to
listen could hear. The humor of

the situation was long remembered,
but the situation itself was forgot-
ten as quickly as possible,
Frankly, aren’t you good and—
——tired of going to high school?

2) The Big Fopr deputies agreed on something jast week—nat tq meet
on May Day,

3) Viet Minn force in Indo China have pulled back further under pres-
sure of the French attack.

4) The Iranian Senate completed action on the nationalization of the
oll industry as Mohammed Mossdegh hecame Premier,

5) Bevan's resignation as British Foreign Minister replaced the Mac-
Arthur controversy as the matter of concern in Europe.

‘When....

you feel in the mood for a
GOOD T-BONE STEAK

come on down to the

College Restaurant

Depot &t. Davidson, N. 0.
