There is something
about the comparative-
ly comfortable fa-
miliarity of the frying
pan that makes one re-
luctant to make the
leap into the fire, and
final columns are cer-
tainly no goad to go on
and jump.

Nothing ever looked
as blank as the first
sheet of a final yarn by
the soon to be late
Sports editor. Other|*
columns never were as
much trouble. If they
were bad, vou always
figured you could make it up the next time. Not so now. What's
more, you feel people expect more in the final spin, maybe
something prophetic, profound, or at least sentimental. But it’s
hard to follow any of these channels because each one opens so
many avenues.

Hence, before being buried, let us treat in pure middle-of-
the-vear sloppiness the matter of a friend long since with one
foot in the grave. Our candidate for daisy food has been on our
mind for some time now, and even a violation of journalistic
tradition seems in line to deal with his cause before ‘we vacate.

This cemetery timber in reference wears baseball togs. He
is, in fact, our baseball team. The poor guy’s been told so long
that he's sick, looks like the devil (though not Blue) himself,
and just to get along the best he can, everyone would under-
stand. As long as we’ve known him, that’s been his case. Ane-
mic through three long springs, he just wasn’t expected to rise
again.

They gave our boy a doc this spring in Frank Packard, and
the very thought of somebody being interested in him had the
kid up and about again. But the disease wasn’t completely
gone. Something more was needed. The doe probably knows,
and maybe he has recommended it. It’s exercise. The fellow
needs to get out and do more. He plays sixteen baseball games
where the average college in his league is gétting out about
25-28 afternoons in the spring. Three games one week, one the
next, two a week later. He might get warmed up enough that
first week to win the third one, but what about the cooling
period before that next one?

Good idea, you agree, but what about the money? Weel-I-l,
that is liable to step on the toes of his country club cousins.
Meaning his tennis and golfing springtime contemporaries who
swing to Florida for four or five days to get ready for spring,

By BILL WHITE

THREE CAT CLUBS SEE ACTIOK

After Taking P.C.,, Barton Netmen| Wildcat of Week |Frosh Tennis Team |Baseballers Hosts

Hit NCS, ON C,

By DICK LILES

Bases loaded, last of the ninth,

Today, Tomorrow two outs, score tied—the most dra-
matic situation in baseball—con-

fronted Arnold “Whiz” Whisnant

After turning it on the defending South Carolina State]as he stepped into the batter's box
champs 8-1 Wednesday, Coach Derrick Barton’s Wildeat netters| here last Monday against North

get back into Southern Conference competition this weekend
against State and Carolina, both there. Both these teams should
impose much stronger competition for the Cats than the Pres-

byterian visitors of this week. The
“cousins” from Presbyterian “Col-
lege could only garner a single win
in the doubles matches with their
combo of Dodd and Montgomery
easing past the duo of Kennedy-
Child by 6-4 and 8-6.

Allan Strand and Dewey Keesler
continued their undefeated season
as a port-sided doubles team to
rap on Spears (P.C.’s No. 1 man)
Bradley by scores of 6-3 and 6-4. In
the singles matches, Keesler, Ken-
nedy, and Child all salted their
matches away in two sets, but
Strand, Dudley, and Staley had to
go the limit of three sets to insure
their ‘victory.

Allen Strand showed a. bit of
fine tennis in defeating a strong
man in Frank Spears. Spears
burned. up the Palmetto loop Inst
year and plays a whale-of-a-good
game. Recently he sprained his
wrist badly and played Wednes-
day with a compltte tape job on
his left hand. Fortunately: for him,
he swats the fuzz with his right
and hits a mean ball, to boot. |

Coach Barton and the Bluchose's

Track Team In Triangular Test
With FSU, Emory At Tallahasee

By BILL

Carolina. This was a fine spot for a
slugger, sure, but Whiz hadn’t even
gotten a scratch hit that day.
While the crowd waited breath-
lessty, Whiz ran the count to two
balls two strikes. Then the Wild-
cat first baseman got hold of the
pitch for a clean single and that
abilities . _
of their opponents play after the a |
matches, and to be sure, the match- 4
es were closer than the net ont-
come would indicate.

Jim Leighton arranged two match-
es for practice earlier this season,
but both were rained out. Each of
the coaches praised the

Coach Barton is naturally pleased
with his team and predicts good
matches this weekend. The team
is ready for two more important
victories and these could he the ones.
The Cats take on State Friday and
then on. to Carolina for a Satur-
day fray. The Carolina team seems
to be very evenly matched all the
way down. Heath Alexander (with |.
his bum — interfraternity football
knee) is the No. 4 man and will bel-
hard to handle. Although the Tar
Hecls haveri't been able to com-}!
pletely replace Clark Taylor, they |:
have a pretty good man in Buddy
Agar, a transfer student from Har-
vard, who will probably — be

the conipetition for Allen Strand
and Dewey Keesler.

el

ARNOLD WHISNANT

was the ball game. Whiz had come
through in the toughest spot of all,
and the ‘Cats had a victory over
one of the best clubs in the South-

ern Conference.

Although he hadn't hit previous
to his game-winning knock, Whiz
had been instrumental in carrying

MORRIS

The Wildcat cindermen meet Florida State University and

Opens With State

Davidson's freshman. tennis team
opens its '51 season next Tuesday
afternoon on the local courts when
it meets the powerladen Charlotte
Central outfit.

The Kitten netters will be def-
inite underdogs in this fray, since
the Charlotte team is generally con-
sidered to be the strongest high
school aggregation ip, this section.
Central’s team is sparked by Lacy
Keesler, of the tennis playing Kees-
lers, who is the current North Ca-
rolina State high school tennis
champion. Lacy’s brother Dewey,
incidentally, is the number two man
on the Wildcat varsity.

An ex-Central star, Corky John-
son, is now playing in the number
two berth for the Davidson frosh,
and will be out to make trouble for
his erstwhile comrades. Another
likely lad who will be out to upset
the dope-bucket on Charlotte is
Johnny Bremer of Wilmington, N.
C. Bremer has something of a rivalry
afoot with Lacy Keesler, which will
certainly be renewed with vigor
when the two meet in the number
oné singles match.

out the spectacular triple play ear-
lier in the game, and did a more
than adequate job of covering the
initial sack.

Whiz has also made a name for
himself as the first-string. center
on the Wildcat gridiron eleven.
Whether he'll get the call from
Uncle Sam this summer is one of
the main worries of both the foot-
ball and baseball mentors.

To Wolfpack Today

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Coach: Frank Packard’s basebal-
lers swing back into action this
afternoon after a Monday victory
over Carolina’s Tarheels to meet
N.C. State’s powerful Wolfpack.
This game shoufd be one of the
toughest of the year for the Cats,
with the Wolfpack already holding
wins over Carolina, Duke, and
Wake Forest.

Monday's game with Carolina
showed that the young and hust-
ling Wildcats have the ability to
play good ball and are well capable
of getting in on some conference
wins. Gaining much needed exper-
ience every game, the Cats’ showed
Monday they have good potentiali-
ties with an uphill 8-7 win that in-
cluded a triple play and some fine
hitting. The Cats go up against a
strong State team Friday, but as
Coach Packard puts it, “if the boys
will only settle down and play the
ball they are capable of, we can
make a good showing.”

Coach Packard planned to pitch
Dutch Hengeveld again today with
Paul Eastman, Tom Craven and
Jim Smith in reserve. It is doubt-
ful that left fielder and co-captain
Auburn Lambeth will play, having
re-injured a pulled muscle against
UNC. Tf€ he doesn’t play, Coach
Packard plans to use Jack Branch
in left field, Bill Rowland in cen-
ter field and Jerry Morrow in
right field.

Marriage is like sitting in a bath
tub. After you get used to it, it

ain't so hot.

CEPUPPEEPETTTETET ETOP EE

-

Emory [University tomorrow afternoon in a triangle meet in
Talahassee, Florida. Coach Pete Whittle and his men left Da-
vidson Thursday afternoon, spent the night in Macon, Georgia.

and then when it gets here go Nawth for the season to New
York, New England, and points that way, and bunk at flop

© Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

shops like the Greenbrier Hotel at White Sulphur Springs, W.
Va. Somewhere, it certainly seems, these crews could curtail
their scenic tours (either North or South) and throw this sick
brother enough to enable him to get out a little more often,
possibly arrange a Florida trip for him once in a while. The
important thing, however, is give him more to do. Time hangs
heavy on a club’s hands, particularly in the business where
practice can go only so far.

That’s the last gripe, but one we feel is justified by the need
and one which we would like to see taken into serious consider-
ation by the athletic department in its planning next spring.
As per opening column last spring, we’ve tried to praise, criti-
cize, and just plain opine when due. In conclusion, we'd like to
windup with a slight shout for athletic director Pan! Seott for
the wonderful, invigorating, boost he has brought this year to
Davidson athletics. His interest, too, in the Davidsonian’s sports
has been a help greatly appreciated. Next year should see even
more from Davidson in the way of athletics, prodded by the
man from the outside who seems to have caught on to ‘‘our”
way better than we ourselves.

The year has been fast and fine, and that frying pan wasn't
as bad as it was cracked up to be. They say the fire’s not so
bad, either—burns out impurities. But is sure looks hot from
here.

Kitten Cindermen Meet Mars Hill
In Season Opener This Afternoon

Coach Ray Brown’s Wildkitten track squad takes on Mars
Hill Junior College tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 in Richardson
Field for their first meet of the 1951 season. Last year the Mars
Hill squad defeated the Davidson group for the locals’ second
loss in two years. Twenty freshmen are out for the’ squad this

year, most of whom will be used | —
: Courts On Hill
For Frosh Today

Field events, which begin at 1:30,
have Bob Loy and Toto William-
son as mainstays in the shot-put
and discus departments, with John
Holt also heaving the plate. Easy By BILL SLEDGE
This afternoon the Kitten nine
journeyed to Charlotte where they
met Harding High, the third and
last of the three Charlotte schools

Henley is the on! high jumper
and Sandy McKelway seems te
hold the Wildkittens’ hopes for the
pole vault.

Distance man Bill Shipley, num-
ber-one cross-country runner last
fall, has showed good speed and
form in the 440 and 880 in time
trials, Rod Reed also ‘showed prom-
ise on the 880,

Buddy McKay bettered the var-
sity time on the 220-yard low hur-
dies in time trials last week. Mc-
Kay also places high in the 100-
yard dash in the frosh time trials.
Last Wednesday Breéden clocked
off a 24-flat but has run a 23.7 in
that event.

Although Bill Morris placed first
in the 100-yard dash time trials this
week, he, Breeden, and McKay al-

they meet this season. Yesterday
they played host to the Central
cats and a week ago they obtained
their first victory over Tech High,
12-6. They meet each of these clubs
two times.

The. Kittens were rated favorites
to win in this afternoon’s tilt with
Harding. Andy Courts was due to
start on the hill for Davidson,
going after his first win of the
season,

Davidson, with one win under its |
belt, was anxious to get back in the
win column after losing to Oak
Ridge, 12-6, this past Tuesday.

Experience is lacking but marked
improvement has been shown
since their first game. The Kit-

ways finish close together in that] tens hope to get over the .500 mark
for the season.

a

race,

and went on to Talahadssee Friday. They will return =| 9

The Florida meet promises to
be a difficult one for the ‘Cats.
Florida State boasts three excel-
lent men in the 100-yard dash.
These three men placed in the
first three places against Mercer
running against Bob Reeder whom
Ken Goodpasture, crack Cat sprint-
er beat last Saturuay.

Bill Pritchett, number-one high
hurdler here, and Bill White, back
in the running after a long lay-off
with a pulled leg muscle, promise
to show a tough race to the strong
hurdlers of FSU. —

In the distance events, Rob Hen-
ry in the 880, Blake Bradley in
the mile run, Bill Lee in the two-
mile run, and J. V. Howell and

i
%

221 South Tryon Street

5
%
cme tne maemo MSE eee sccm

Al Reese on the 440 have. clocked

good times in their respective
events.
Bill McNeeley, who took firsts

in the shot put and discus against
Mercer last week, will be counted
on by Coach Whittle to place in
those events. Don Lazenby promises
to back up McNeeley.

Dave Williins and Jim, Fickei-
sen will perform on the high jump
tomorrow, while Roger Cornell
remains inactive because of “the
muscle he pulled in the Carolina
Relays two weeks ago.

No reports have been received
here about the material had by
the Emory squad.

\

:
it

Number 18...THE RACCOON

Per’ Shades of the roarin’ "Twenties! All duded up in Prey’

“They can’t trick an
old grad ltke me!’’

a

:
;

his ancient benny — but he has modern ideas on testing cigarette

. mildness! He’s tried every “quickie” cigarette test in
the book — and they’re not fooling him one bit! He knows for dang-sure that

JOE —

- ‘THACKER’S, INC.

Private Dining Rooms
or

Parties and Banquets

Phone 25490

cigarette mildness can’t be determined by a cursory sniff or a single, quickly-
dispatched puff. He doesn’t have to go back to school to know that
there is one real test — a test that dispels doubt, fixes fact.

It’s the sensible test .. . the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test,
which asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke—on a pack-

after-pack, day-after-day basis. No snap judgments needed.
After you’ve enjoyed Camels — and only Camels — for
30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste), wo
believe you'll know why...

More People Smoke Camels
than any ether cigarette!

,
3
5

Charlotte, N. C

Se NESS

