PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

an
EDITOR IN CHIEF .....--..-------------- GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER ...-.-- ---~--------- JOHN LOFTIN
Associate Editors ....---- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor ~-....-......- ------------------ Shelley Beard

Managing Editors ....-... Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George
McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott
Alex Goley

City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White

‘Assitant Business Manager ------.------- ~----------
Advertising Manager ---------------------- Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager ~.-----------~---------------- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager -----.------------------------ Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager .....-.--------------------=---- Bill Hart

ns
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Faith On The Campus

The Y.M.C.A. has once more completed a worthy
project in the printing of devotional booklets for distri-
bution among the student body. This booklet, titled Faith
on the Campus, is a collection of contributions by various
members of the student body and was made available at
the hall prayer meetings Wednesday night.

We sincerely believe that’ the net effect of these
booklets on the lives of those ivho ‘will faithfuly use them
each day will be enricliing. None of us is too old to fol-
low a good example or to fail to be impressed by the at-
titude of those with whom we associate daily concerning
the issue of a vital religion. As Tommy Langford, who
edited the booklet, stated in the preface ‘‘ . . . we find
that many times the most helpful assistance is a friendly
word of encouragement or a thought-provoking sentence
that is offered by someone we know personally.”

We heartily commend Tommy and all the men who
had a part in the formation of this devotional series, and
the Y.M.C.A. which again demonstrated its, interest in the
spiritual growth of the students.

e
Apologia

This week the members of the Davidson student body
were privileged to hear a series of talks by a church man
of international statue, both intellectually and ecclesiasti-
eally. The talks were scholarly and thought-provoking,
and for the most part were not too well received by the
student body—perhaps due to the fact that they were
scholarly and thought-provoking. The very fact. that a
series of lectures such as this, delivered by a figure of
such prominence, could be borne as a burden by so large
a segment of the student body—and completely ignored
by another large segment—seems to indicate that some-
thing might be basically wrong with our general educa-
tional outlook.

To begin with, many students complained that the
lectures were hard to follow. Granted. They were. This
fact, however, is hardly an excuse for our not trying to
follow them. Learning, contrary to the popular belief,
does not come easily—nor does it follow that an educa-
tion is a necessary corollary of the college diploma. The
old adage that ‘‘anything worth having is worth working
for’’ is certainly applicable here. The thinking student
surely realizes that the age-old question of the relation-
ship between the Church and the State, and
relation of the individual to each of them, is not on
any counts a simple matter. Its comprehension has posed
a problem for scholars from the time of Plato down to the
present. The lectures were by their very nature bound
to be hard to follow, and this feature should have been a
challenge to the student rather than an excuse for cutting
chapel. ‘

It has also been said that the lectures were read in-

stead of spoken freely, as we are accustomed to receive
information. In the continental educational system, how-
ever, lectures from manuscript—or even the printed page
—are the common practice. Moreover, a conscientious
speaker could hardly trust himself to the recall of such
_& lengthy series of addresses—particularly when the com-
munication of involved coneepts is so dependent upon care-
ful word selection and phraseology. <A well-read talk
should be equally as appealing to the attentive listener
as the words of a radio commentator, and it is certainly
to be preferred to the repetition, the vague verbosity and
the ‘‘soul-searching’’ that is all too prevalent among Da-
vidson speakers.

Finally, there are those on the campus who, admitting

the scholarly accomplishment of the lectures, ‘wish only.

that their topic had been more pertinent to our Piedmont
Carolina locality. This feeling of ‘‘What has this got to
do with us?’’ shows perhaps more than anything else
that many, perhaps even a majority, of our students fail
to grasp the implications of the struggle in which we
find ourselves today. We have a fight on our hands in
Korea, to be sure, and it’s a real, life-and-death affair.
We also have another fight on our hands—a struggle of
ideas, of philosophies, and of creeds. It too is a very real
fight, for it is through ideas that men’s actions are moti-
vated. We lose this first fight and we lose a few miles of
an Asiastic peninsula, important strategically as it may be;
but lose the second fight and we may well knell the toll
of western civilization and all that it means to us—even
here in the Piedmont Carolinas.

The Otts Lecture Series brought forth with graphic
clarity the essence of the type of ideology, with its im-
plications, against which we are pitted today. We sin-
cerely hope that the student body managed to absorb
enough of these talks to give them an idea of the forces
against which many of them will take up arms in the
near future. Those who did not absorb have missed a great
opportunity to learn for themselves from the bitter ex-
periences of others.—T.H.H. :

THE DAVIDSONIAN

What About Fraternities

After further thought and dis-
cussion concerning the subject, an
alteration of the procedure of the
next two articles, as outlined in
last week's introduction, will be
made. The discussion this week will
consist of some of the prominent
merits and demerits of the fratern-
ity system, while discussion in next
week's article will be concerned
with general college-fraternity re-
lations.

Most members of fraternities and
many outsiders would agree that
there are many merits in the fra.
ternity system. Four seem to be
rather manifest and of some in-
trinsic worth, which, of course, is
not to say that there are not others.
First, to use a broad term, “fellow.
ship is one of the more inimediate
experiences of the fraternity man.
This can be both good and bad.
Certainly in terms of stated frater-
nity goals, fellowship is supposed to
be a vital, pulsating, character-
building force. At a minimum, fel-
lowship, with its concomitant ad.
justment of personality to person-
ality, is an educational experience
in the life of the fraternity man.

“A second good feature is that
fraternities provide both organized
social activities, and means for en.
couraging individually initiated so-
cial activities. They provide not
merely an outlet for more socially
inclined men, but also a stimulus
and outlet for less socially inclined
men. Under proper circumstances,
this certainly makes for social
health on a college campus.

Third, fraternities inculcate cer-
tain idealistic concepts in the minds
of many members. The expression of
Christian and other high ideals has
a prominent part in many fratern-
ity rituals—the ideal of brother.
hood, the search for truth, good
scholarship, and strong character,
to mention a few. '

Fourth, many personal contacts
are effected in fraternities, many
times opening doors to lifelong
friendships, business associations,
and marriage, etc. The continuing
value of contacts after graduation
has often been cxaggerated, but it
can be said that the stage is set
for the formation of valuable per-
sonal relations among fraternity
brothers.

Although many of the salient
features mentioned would exist on
a college campus even if fraterni.
ties didn’t exist, we could conclude
that these do characterize the fra-
ternity system in varying degrees of
universality and intensity. :

Since the war, particularly, much
censure has been directed toward fra-
ternities. To illustrate the com-
plexity of the controversy, features
most vehemently attacked by the
critics have often been obversely
heralded as inalienable and most
precious by the defendants. What
the former has termed as anti-dem-
ocratic practices, anti-intellectual
tendencies, indignant hazing, un-
healthy and impeding , national
headquarters affiliations, and school
loyalty. distractions, ‘the latter has
termed as democratic practices, in-
tellectual tendencies, man-making
hazing, healthy and “beneficial na-
tional headquarters affiliations, and
school. loyalty contributions. In.
deed, much of the wrangling has
consisted in distracting ,question.
begging, term quibbling, which does
not. invalidate the criticisms, but
rather leaves them unrefuted. Let

PROM...

THE EDI

To the Editor:

Last Friday, February 23rd, the
student body of Davidson College
should have been pleased to have
Miss Elynor Bryson, soprano as
guest entertainer for the Chapel
service. But — — — . In my opin-
ion (and I think the analogy very
fitting for the occasion) the in-
fected boil of ungentlemanly crude.
ness came to a head and burst in
all its cankerous and corrupted na-
ture. If that is too rough for the
aesthetes, I'l] put it this way; the
student body has lowered itself,
through its practices of plain in-
consideration, to a sub-standard no
better than heathenism.

It seems that a proportionally
large number of individuals, having
lost their status as individuals in
the student body gatherings, de-
rive some sordid pleasure from the
discourteous and often irreverent
treatment now invariably given
those who are trying sincerely to
lead or entertain in Chapel. This
condition has come to the point
now, and I do not make this state-
ment unadvisedly, that those indi.
viduals who are trying to get some.
thing of value from the services

By TOM MANN

(Second of a series of three articles)

us discuss the above-mentioned dis-
approbations in order. |

That fraternities are undemocrat-
ic is a charge coming from many
educational quarters. Democratic in
exercising the right of voluntary
association, they are undemocratic
in their own organic structure, as
witness selective rushing, the ball
system, and the Aryan clauses.
Democracy, with its stress upon
equality and majority, could not,
it scems, encompass discrimination
on grounds of race, creed, color,
and personal whim. Thus, it would
seem that fraternities have exer-
cised a democratic right in the or-
ganization of an undemocratic, and
even theoretically unchristian, in-
stitution. Because of this fact, in
1946, an alumni group and a fac-
ulty committee of Amberst Col-
lege recommended that the trustees
abolish fraternities. In a compro-
mise, the fraternities were allowed
to continue existence, but only with
drastic reforms. Recently at Brown
University, after a student had died
of head injuries received during an
inter-fraternity raucus, the president
announced that fraternities would
survive only with reformed con-
duct and if they could represent in
their membership the majority of
the student body. At the University
of Virginia, former state governor
and now President Darden recently
made it clear that he was on the
warpath of the “expensive, restrict.
ed, and ingrown” fraternities. In
1949, the National Inter-fraternity
Conference strongly urged that
fraternities remove all discrimina-
tory clauses from their constitu.
tions. So it would seem that the
anti-democratic charge is growing
stronger.

“Anti-intellectual” certainly in
many cases is synonymous with the
term “fraternity.” Sometimes or.
ganized study programs and rules
are formulated and enforced, but
this must be the exception. The
best academic influence in a fra-
ternity is upper-classman example,
and this at Davidson is often piti.
ful. In fact, one who studies even
reasonably consistently is often
called a “grind,” and sneered at, so
that any academic ambitions a
neophyte fraternity man may have
can soon become lowered by these
hammering externa? pressures. (The
fraternity houses I have visited and
others that I have heard about are
anything but conducive to intel-
lectual attainment.) At one New
England college, the non-frater-
nity group has won the scholarship
award eighteen times since 1918.
And that is not an exceptional ex-
ample. “Anti-intellectual’” may be
too strong a term to apply univer-
sally, but in too many instances
there seem to be no positive stimuli
in fraternities for intellectual
growth and achievement.

Indignant hazing characterizes
many fraternity groups Hazing is
generally understood to include any
pledge activities other than those
practical and constructive duties
connected with pledgship, which
create the possibility of bodily in-
jury, cause undue embarrassment
infringe _illigitimately on the
pledge’s time, and involve public
or private damage and _ stealing.
That hazing exists on most col-
lege campusses needs no proof. Ac-
tually hazing is unconstitutional ac.
cording to most fraternity regula-
tions. It is also a violation of the

state laws of North Carolina, and
other states, and in most cases 4
violation of college regulations.
Thus, from three angles fraternities
are subject to discipline. _

To move on to the next criticism,
national headquarters affiliations
can become an impediment to the
fulfillment of local chapter inter-
ests, and even college administra-
tion interests.

It is an inherent weakness in or-
ganized national headquarters su-
pervision over chapters that adult
national officials, by the very na-
ture of their not being or living at
the chapter level, cannot possibly
be sensitive to and respond to local

needs as one actually experiencing

them. This, coupled with the natural
desire ‘for self-perpetuation in of-
fice, can blind national officials to
the undulations of chapter needs
and pertinent local college admin-
istration attitudes. To a report that
some college administrations were
becoming anti-fraternity in attitude
at a recent national fraternity con-
vention, a national official dogma-
tically replied, “We believe that
much can be done to change anti-
fraternity attitudes of these college
administrations; or, failing in that,
to change the personnel of such
institutions.” In the recent trial for
supposed misconduct of a local chap-
ter of a national fraternity, the
officers of ,the national executive
council (adults) acted as the prose-
cution, judges, jury, and, even in
cases of procedure as a court of
appeals. These few men perman-
ently abolished the chapter, even
though its actions had not violated
their constitution in either letter or
spirit. So along with prestige, na-
tional headquarters affiliations also
carry some difficult problems.

Concerning school loyalty, let it
merely be said that any college or-
ganization which demands as much
loyalty as fraternities necessarily
distracts or subtracts from potential
school loyalty. It might be added
that this would also have a detre-
mental effect on individual class
loyalty.

In conclusion, it appears upon
introspection that the preceeding
criticisms, and possibly others, pos-
sess some validity and justification.
The ranks of the critics and reform.
ers include more than college of-
ficials and faculties. When a chap-
ter at Amherst College recently
stood trial before a national execu-

* tive committee for pledging a Ne-

gro, 80 percent of the chapter alum-
ni favored pledging and initiating
the’ boy even at the expense of
losing national affiliations! The un-
ethical, unchristian,, and undemo-
cratic methods that were employed
by the national officials to expell
this chapter have entered the pages
of fraternity history as one of its
greatest disgraces.

If we really believe in improving
human relationships, there is enough
truth in a statement by E. B. White
the essayist, “ ‘fraternities’ are the
anithesis of fraternity,’ to motivate
us to continuous and rigorous re-
evaluation of the fraternity system.

As was mentioned at the begin.
ning of this article the subject next
week will deal with college-fratern-
ity relations. Special attention will
be given to the manner in which fra-
ternities come into éxistenc: on the
college campus, or the right by
which they exist, and the groups
to which they are responsible.

TOR’S MAILBOX

and entertainments are so greatly
provoked, embarrassed and distract-
ed by the alternating hisses, boos
or horselaughs rising from the stu-
dents, that we are desperately seek-
ing any measure which will curb
the present situation of conduct at
our Chapel services.

In past years we have heard
everything from mild and well-
meant suggestions on how to im.
prove “Chapel conduct” (which
phrase hag almost become a tra.
dition) which were promptly and
(it seemed) purposely disregarded,
down to and_ including strong
threats of the fate which awaited
the student body if it did not take
its own steps to improve this
“Chapel conduct,” which were
viewed with no more than an apa-
thetic disgust. The important. thing
though, is that with all the sugges.
tions and threats, nothing concrete
has been done about the situation,
and the conduct has continued to
course its usual vulgar ways.

Now, we have seen what the
student body is and has been able

to do about the conduct in its own °

Chapel exercises, - - - nothing!
Therefore, if the faculty is really

interested in an improvement, rec-
ognizing the inadequacy of the stu-
dent’s effort in this matter, they can
and should take steps in the form
of regulations; regulations affecting
all of us, regulations which would
deprive us of something that we
want more than the opportunity to
disrupt Christian worship, regula.
tions which would hurt! We are
tired of suggestions, discussion,
threats, and appeasement - - - the
time has now come for concrete
administrative actiont If compro-
mise through deprivation we need,
then let’s have it; but for the sake
of Davidson College and common
decency, Iet’s have something!
Respectfully and
sincerely submitted,
Gene Regen, Jr.

(Ed. Note: In a meeting
a few weeks ago, the
faculty gave the Executive
Committee full power to deal
with the problem of chapel
conduct in any manner in
which they see fit. Your guess
is as good as mine as to what
action theyomay take.)

1

FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 195)

THE POT BOILS

By HENRY HANSEN

Whoever mentioned the lack of
light on the rear of the gymnasium
has a hearty second from this quar-
ter. It seems strange that such over-
sights invariably occur and that
their nature is always so simple
that it hardly seems credible that
they should occur. At any rate,
whoever is responsible should add
some sort of lighting before a ser-
ious accident occurs. While we're
on the subject of the new gymna-
sium what about the ventilation
fans? They're excellent fans, but
they do very little good when they
are most needed, that is, on cold
nights when all the windows are
closed and the gym is packed with
active spectators. Under these cir-
cumstances, when the fans are on
they labor valiantly but ineffective-
ly to produce a vacuum. This re-
sult has not yet been achieved;
were it ever to happen the results
would be highly interesting to the
physics department and fo those in
the gym. It would seem rather
obvious that stale air can be ex-
pelied and fresh air drawn in by
providing an inlet through which
it can come. With windows closed
and lobby sealed, there is no in-
let. Since the architects failed to
take care of this little matter, per-
haps some arrangements could be
made to open some doors somewhere
and let in a little air.

Moving from the gymnasium to
Chambers auditorium we find a
ceiling full of little holes designed

to make a boiler factory sound like
a sewing machine. Their effect on
a symphony orchestra or any other
musical activity is equally great
but not nearly so desirable. The
senior class usually has to invent
some way to spend their money in
the annual gift, such as the flood.
lights on the South Court which
while aesthetic, are not. particularly
useful. Why doesn’t some Senior
class, preferably this one, invest. a
small amount of moncy in having
the ceiling painted with a special
plastic paint which would effec.
tively seal the holes and restore
some of the tone quality and “live.
ness” to an otherwise “dead” hall.
Such a. gift would be at the same
time useful and aesthetic in that it
would contribute much to musical
performances in Chambers. Another
gift which would be more appropri-
ate than the usual fountains would
be a new PA system for Chambers
auditorium or equipment for the
Red and Black Masquers. Another
gift that could be made would be
the commissioning of some com.
poser to write a work connected
in some way with the college. This
has been done by other schools and
serves, in addition to the value of
the work itself, to effectively ad-
vertise the school itself. The above
are but a few suggestions as to how
the funds usually allocated to
plaques and such might be morc
effectively spent than they are at
present.

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) General Bradley said this country “must supply the kind of leader-
ship necessary for this “Global struggle for freedom’s eternal sur-

vival,
2)

The threatened rail strike in Britain was stopped by pay increases,

which will be accompanied by higher passenger and freight rates.

3)

The Schuman plan for merging Western Europe’s heavy industry

continued to lack support in France and Western Germany.

4)
“treaty is forthcoming.
5)
commercial squabble.
6)

John Foster Dulles expressed his confidence that a Japanese peace
India and Pakistan signed a trade agreement, thus ending their long

A half million immigrants have been added to the half million people

the State of Israel had at its formation in 1948.

7)

At Buenos Aires olympic visitors were welcomed with flags and

banners. The first Pan American Olympic Games will be held on

twenty-one sites.

8)

The Communist Party purge in Czechoslavakia was not viewed by

informed sources as being weakening to the party.

Geech’s Goulash

By PAT McGEACHY

One day in early spring Appieton
Ass was gambling precociously
about the corral, frightening the
Gila-monsters and sniffing wisely
at the tumble-weed as it passed. He
seemed playful enough at the time,
but suddenly he stopped and gave
a disgusted snort.

“Here comes the ole’ man,” he
grumbled. “I can tell by the look
in his eye that he’s about ready
for another of these heart to heart
talks.”

This was indeed true. Appleton’s
father, Angus, was a wise old ass,
well versed in the ways of life. And
now he was approaching with a
dignified clop, ready to pass, on
more advice to the naive Appleton.

“Son;” said he, “I want you to
pay close attention to what I have
to say, as it may save your life
some day.”

Now Appleton’s ears were plenty
big enough to hear, and he was
plenty smart enough to understand
what his father had to say, but
these heart to heart talks sort of
went against his grain. So while
Angus talked Appleton closed his
mind to everything . You would
have thought that he was asleep,
and indeed this was quite true.

But the old ass went on. “Son,
one of these days you're going to
be moved out of this corral, and
hitched up to a mule train. And
you will have to work your head
off. But asses were made good and
Strong for work, so you won't
mind that. The only thing that
bothers me is that you are still
pretty ignorant of life yet, and one
or two things might come up un-
expectedly and you would be
ruined.”

“For example, if you're pulling

a cart down the street, and a car
horn startle’s you, for goodness
sakes don't jump violently to the
other side, because you may get
run over by a steam roller or some-
thing.”

Well Appléton naturally paid ab.
solutely no heed to this advice,
simply because he hadn't been list-
ening when it was given. And if
he had been listening he probably
would have forgotten it right away.”

But he ought to have listened.
because sure enough, after a few
weeks, Appleton was taken out of
the old corral and hitched to a
garbage wagon. This didn’t bother
him very much, because asses are
made good and strong for work, so
he pulled the garbage wagon to
and fro through the busy streets.
One morning however, before he
was fully awake, he was passing
one of the cities biggest intersec-
tions when the horn on a very
large Olds Rocket sounded violent-
ly on his left. Appleton was so viol-
ently startled that he jumped sud.
denly to the right, completely up-
setting the garbage wagon. But to
make matters even worse, espc-
cially for Appleton, a steam roller
was passing just at that moment
on the right, and it ran over him,
killing him. He was without a
doubt the flattest ass you ever
saw.

Witnesses say that they carried
Appleton on a flat car back to the
old corral, and there buried him
under the Western skies. And as
the Gila-monsters and the tumble
weed play about over his grave,
old Angus stands to one side sadly
wondering if the youth of his day
has gone to the prairie dogs. And
1 can’t say as I blame him

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
To abolish the double-cut system.

1
> To change the existing system of giving cuts.

. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors
regardless of their age.

4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and

the college at large.

To change the system of student body elections.

To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and spesk-
ers.

7. To give praise where praise is due.

8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.

9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes.

To urge the clasification of student regulations to the student
