One thing on the
campus that is grossly
overlooked and not sup-
ported is the cross-coun-
try team. There really
isn’t much opportunity
for a spectator to view
this track-type endu-
rance test except on the
finish and starting lines,
but there seems to be no
’ interest whatsoever in
the outcome of their
} meets and their stand-
' ing. Their season un-
fortunately runs parallel
with the football sea-
son and the big-specta-

PICK UP SOME
FREE “LOPES”

Answer Quiz

Nildeat Sports

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1951

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREB

HIS IS fv: CATS VS PACK
Linksters Begn |SQUad In Best
wr ipo he wot meet of te scant ar ed sce Karly Practices [Shape of Season

department.
. : . : By BOB OWENS
The beautiful thing to me about this sport is that the Hoping for one of the strongest By DICK ROPER
boys are somewhat on their own to get in shape and make a/teams in Davidson's golfing his- When Coach Crowell Little’s team comes out on the turf

TENSION MOUNTS;

KA's Take Momentary Lead
By Lowering Pi Kapps 27-0

good showing for their school and for themselves. Sure, they|tory, Coach Elgin White has/a¢ Charlotte Memorial Stadium to do battle with N. C. State
yet a lot of good coaching from Pete Whittle, but it is up to}undertaken to make certain that! omorow afternoon, season's records and past defeats will be By WALLACE ABBOTT points and one other team scored |KA's 25 -.....--.------ Pikas 0
them to grind away every afternoon on the golf course, because his, linksters wil by setting on, unimportant to the Wildcat supporters. What the Cats do in The fraternity football league fity. As was expected at the start} Phi Gams 27 ._._____ Phi Delts 12
there would surely not be anyone running behind them to make swatern oF daily fall practices.| THE game overshadows by far their anemic 6-1 record. nas nally found a team that can coming increasingly “higher as the cane 28s 31 ---- Sigma Chi's 25
them run the full course or keep the pace up. It is up to the in-| These practice sessions, which are| What are the chances for beat- : ne of Test places thu Mted’ posses” teams play more vames. and eet ne mars 2 Toteceren senna ATO’s 0
dividual Tom, Dick, or Harry (no reference inferred as to our | taking place for the first time here | ing the Statesters? . many injuries and too little reservel Kar. who have a 9-1 record in| to the feeling of having no bodily | KA’s 27 Ty ikas 4
present team) to trot out the three or four miles and not to sit | at Davidson, should f° a long “nie theyre nae top gocd own strength. Halfback Jim Thaek this season’s play, Last week, it was | COMtct. SPE’s won on forfeit from cc
H di in helping the golfer retain his 0 : : reshman Halfback Jim) Thack- a ee
behind a tree hiding from some overseer. stroke throughout the winter| Little has pointed out that the/er, who has run brilliantly from the KAS fe nd ne Pi Kapps who} Now that the football season is Standings
SOME RECORDS SOME OUTSTANDING PACERS | months. Wolfpack certainly has nothing to} his halfback ppst all season, will veer “h rt | G eague lead, how- approaching its final week, the fra- w L
eae ] , howl about, with an unimpressive| not be able to do much against % Kaun nM t tire dropped the | ternities are beginning to look for-|KA‘s _.___.__ 9 1
This year the team has been outstanding although their Mac McLean, outstanding | 2-6 record for their play so far this| the Pack, with a twisted knee suf- : apps out i “ place when | ward to three other sports in the Kappa Sigs _......-. 8 2
record will not hold me up at a glance. They have won 2 and| golfer on last year’s equad. is | season. And the fact that Alex] fered against W&I. still giving him| ("CY “eteated them 18-12 on Tues-| near future. Basketball is the next | p; Kapps _.---.--._- 7 3
lost 3 and placed third in the recent State meet, beating out back for more action and was Webster, leading ground gainer for | trouble. day. As if to add insult to injury major sport on the agenda, and Betas Torres cress 7 3
. . . recently elected captain of the | Sate, is expected to see little if ; [the RA’s also defeated them on] it will get started as soon as t i a
Duke by a considerable margin. Their latest loss was only 5| , turning tate, P t Ne ll And A. C. Gregg, .flashy scat-|-ryirsday, this time the score was ‘ he? Phi Gams .......-..- 6 4
ints and that was to V.MLI. last week. The meets at the first $2 team. Lettermen re any action because of injuries | back who broke his leg against the 27-0. wees Fre was | football season is completed. Also|spr's 6 4
points Paaer ‘ " from last year’s team include | doesn't help them any, Citadel, will be sorely missed to- At ; . the swimming and wrestling Sigma Chi’s ~ 6 4
of the season proved to be the downfall of the thin-clads as} Mac McLean, Jim Sloan, Al t the present time the Kappa] tournaments will be starting in th oe
" A factor in favor of the home | morrow. Sigs F di d : arting in the} phi Delts ..-_-__- 4 6
they were invaded by the great teams of both State and Caro-| Gaither, Lew Barnes, Al Fitz- + the gs are in undisputed possession | near future. It looks as if we have] pi... ----
i , i i Id, d Lawrence Erwin. team is that they are in better Coach Little himself isn’t of second place with an 8-2 season 1 . : Pikas .-2..2-2222222 8 3 7
lina. State’s aggregation, that this week copped the state crown] SéeFale, an ¢ physical shape than at any time| 7. nat combination he'll use |stinding, Since the KA's have one]. ot of interfraternity sports to) SAR’s -____ + 2 7
and are’expected to gain the conference one also, was too potent} Bob Brannan and Graham Keith,| since the opening of the season, | i, the backfield tomorrow, | more game remaining, with the| everyone inter ated at eon ATO'S -22eeeneennnn- 1 8
with Garrison and the Sophomore-star Shockley leading the|who are up from the Frosh renks} = a4. witdcat line has their | Chances are the Wildcat men- | !hi Delts, it ig entirely possiblelig get in some good wholesome CC ..---------------- 0 9

‘Pack and setting a new record in the meantime.

Over the past season a new star arose over the
horizon around Davidson and his brilliance has shone
for the past few weeks. Our Wildcat of the Week last
week placed third in the state meet only 16 seconds be-
hind Shockley and Garrison, who tied for the lead. He
has come in first in the four of the five regular meets
of the season, getting licked only by the team that beat
him last Monday. Tom Stockton has also set two
course records. One came the week after the Garrison-
Shockley combo set the record on this course. The
other was a University of Richmond course record the
very next weekend.

Dick Stockton came in tenth in the state meet and also
captured a nice trophy. He has been consistently in the first
7 or 8 places this season and has been running better all the
time. Bill Shipley has shone well as a Soph this year and should
really improve as the seasons come. Bob Henry has helped the
squad and also the addition of several Freshmen, notably Floyd
Feeney and Bob Charles has strengthened us along down the

line. Bill Lee, the unheralded pacer, has been consistently in the|and all indications lead Coach
White to predict that his squad

will be out to improve on last
year’s creditable record of 8 wins
in 14 matches. With daily fall prac-
tices plus an abundant supply of
good golfing material
everyone will agree that Coach
White's linksters should hit their
peak during the '52 season.

first four or five finishers and has been improving steadily.

CONFERENCE MEET AND MORE LAURELS

With the conference meet in Durham this coming
Monday, Coach Whittle hopes to prove that he has a
good squad and aspires to at least fifth or sixth posi-
tion among the conference greats. State will probably
cop the meet as they annexed the State title and Caro--
lina should finish strong with such teams as Mary-
land and West Virginia fighting for the first three or
four places. This is where our own squad should and
can show up if they can beat out that pesky VMI
bunch that squeezed out a win last week.

JUST A WORD ABOUT STATE COLLEGE

This week finds us in the midst of the traditional battle | >
between this little church school and the technical and agricultural
college of the state. Although neither they nor our Wildcats have | 3.
met much success on the football field, both teams are really
better than they have shown and both teams have played a|"
rough schedule in proportion to the sizes of the respective insti-
tutions.

State College has never considered Davidson as much com-

petition as you might think even with that win in '49 and a| field wrapper to Doug Rice at the
Stud, The first correct answers will

"receive a carton of cigs,

darn good scare in '50.This year could be an ‘impressionable’ one.

will bathe the drooping spirits .
in delight,
beyond the bliss of dreams

Biilton must have peered into « crystal
3° wy.

ball to write these lines. How else
could he have foretold the delicious,
eefreshing goodness of Coca-Cola?

COTTE UNDER AUTHORITY OF
COCA-COLA

of last year, are strong contenders
to fill the shoes of Monty Hill and
Cecil
players lost from last year’s team.
Other boys trying to stroke their
way into a starting berth on the
"52
George’ Pressley, Tom Abel, Dave
Chittum, Martin Foil, Edwin Doug-
las, Jimmie Thornton,
Douglas, Tommy Humphries, Gayle
Avertt, and Bob Owens.

?
1. Who set the record last year

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD, N. C.

. © 1981, THe COCA-COLA Comput

work clearly cut out with big.
formidable Elmer Costa always
a threat at his tackle slot for
the Pack. Costa has been one
of the few bright spots in
State’s games this year and will
not be slowing down any to-
morrow in his bid for all-
Southern and possible All-
American honors.

Brandon, the only two

team include Joe Jenkins,

Tommy

The Cats haven't been able to
get up a full head of steam since
they defeated VPI 32-20 in their
second contest of the season. The
injury-plagued squad has had one
bad break after another all through
the season, and haven't played a
game since the Citadel contest
without several key players on the
sidelines nursing hurts,

Burt the tussle with State is the
big one, and if the Cats can ever
be counted to put out for all they're
worth, itll be in tomorrow’s fracas.
The 20-14 upset win over the Wolf-
pack in 1949 still stands out vividly
in the minds of the senior mem-
bers of the Cat squad, and they
would dearly love to do a repeat
performance, The Raleigh boys
squeezed by in last year’s tilt, 15-7.

Despite the loss of their past
five games, the Cats have dis-
played a desire to win all season.
They held powerful Washington
and Lee to a scoreless tie in the
first half of that game and last
week led VMI 7-0 at the end ‘of
the first quarter, though they lost
the game eventually, 34-13. It was
the same story every time—too

The Davidson Golf team has
compiled a wonderful record
for a college of this size, and
its schedule is constantly domi-
nated by the strongest teams of
the Southern Conference. A
golfing trip to Florida, during
which the team matches strokes
with some of the strongest
schools in the nation, high-
lights the season’s activities.
The prospects are looking bright

on hand,

Chesterfield
SPORTS QUIZ

of throwing the most TD
passes in a college season?
Who won the World Series in
1937?

Who was the heavyweight box-
ing champion before Joe Louis?
Who won the American League
batting championship seven
times in eight consecutive years?

By BILL BRADFORD

Arnold Whisnant, -offensive cen-
ter for the Wildcats, came into his
own up in Lexington last week
when we played VMI. By virtue of
his performance in the games he
has played, he is a strong con-
tender for the coveted Armfield
Blocking Trophy. Plagued by a
n.id-season knee injury, Arnold has
missed a couple of the games, but
in those that he has started he has
shown himself to be the best center
on the squad,

Turn in answers on a Chester-

the rest of the numerous injured,
will greatly enhance our chances
of victory over the Wolfpack of
N. C. State. The game will be
played in Charlottte and should be
the thriller that it has been for the
last two years. When Arnold was
out, his presence was greatly
missed in the center of that forward
wall, and N. C. State will find it
even tougher to crack with “Whiz”
in there.

Arnolds athletics are not confined
to the football field. In the spring
he changes uniforms and covers
first base for the Wildcats. Though
only a Sophomore last year, he was

No. 1 in his position and lettered
under Coach Packard, He bats left
handed and is an able and adept
hitter. With the return of warm
weather he will once again return
to the infield.

During his high school days he
played football for the Morganton
team. Even then his ability was
recognized. He was chosen for All-
State honors, consisting of an in-
vitation to play in both the Shrine
Bowl and the Optimist Bowl,

Wildcat Of The Week

His return, along with some of}.

that the Kappa Sigs can move into

t a ‘athletic activity.
a tic for first place. However, the

tor will have to turn juggler

and shift his backs several There is a medieval superstition

ways before the final whistle. [Phi Delts have a rough time in Results to the effect that yawning might
store for them if they expect to up-! Betas 31 ___. .-. SPE’s 1g]/Permit the soul to escape from the

Jack Ruth wilt be at his quartet-| sot ihe KA‘s. Phi Gams 18. _.. Pi Kapps 12| 20dy. Placing the hand in front of
back post, having fully recovered] ‘The week's games brought onf Kappa Sigs 61 ....--.. ATO's 0] the mouth would prevent the soul
from an ankle injury suffered eat-| ome increasingly higher scores as|Sigma Chis 63 _........-.- CC 6| from leaving, and devils or demons
lier in the’season.“The Cats chances |two teams scored more than sixty|Phi-Delis 22... SAE's'1g|from entering the body.—Tuam

of a victory depend greatly on the Herald. Eire.

good right arm of their field gen-
eral, and another injury to the key
man could prove disastrous,

State. has Costa, but Davidson
has a couple of stellar linemen who
will be vying for the crowd's at-
tention as far ax the scrapping in
the forward walls is concerned.
Captain Bill Freeman and Alter-
nate Captain Jerry Kiser, who has
been praised by practically every
team the Cats have played this
Season, turned in good perfor-
mances in the week's practice ses-
sions and will be in top shape for
the game,

The world is full of ideas. What
we need is more individuals who
can take ideas out of the arca of
emotional belief and hotly argued
faith, and detachedly put these
ideas to work to prove their validi-
ty or to expost their inadequacy.—
Weston La Barre.

No. 26
THE ROOSTER

More than one-fourth of all pri-
vately financed nonfarm homes in
the U. S. in '49 were built by: the
owners themsclves. Some 272,970
persons built houses for their own
families, acting as their own con-
tractors and in many cases doing
part of the work themselves

which are the highest honors that
can come to an ‘athlete in thls state.
He was unable to play in either of
these classics due to a knee injury
which has eontinued to bother him
in his college years, While Morgan-
ton isn’t noted for its powerhouse
football teams, a few years ago it
was stronger, and one of the factors
contributing to its success was
Arnold,

“Whiz is just a junior, with an-
other season of eligibility. He is a

a

You have to get up early in the morning to
put one over on this cock-of-the-walk! When it

came to making “‘quick-trick” experiments of
cigarette mildness, he stated flatly, “That’s strictly
for clucks”! How ’ya going to keep ’em down
on the farm—when they know there’s one
convincing way to prove cigarette mildness!

It’s the sensible test .. . the 30-day Camel
Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try
ye Camels as a steady smoke—on a day after day

ARNOLD WHISNANT

basis. No snap judgments. Once you’ve enjoyed
Cuinels for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for
Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why...

CKMOACE QUALATY

%
Vg
¥

member of Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity and a member of the D
club. He is also enrolled in Ad-
vanced ROTC, which assures his
return to Davidson for next year,
when, undoubtedly, he will continue
to play a bang-up good game of
ball. Being Wildcat of the Week
is just one way of sayiry that
Arnold is long overdue for the
praise that he deserves on that
football field.

After all the Mildness Tests...

