This column should
be getting the dubious
honor that has been be-
stowed on Life maga-
zine in the past few
years. It seems every-
thing the magazine
would print would
come out a few weeks
later as either not being
true as a standing fact
or would fall into a
miserable situation. Such
a thing happened when
they printed the picture
of the presidential ‘‘vic-
tor’ Thomas Dewey in
a joyous mood as if he
had just won the elec-
tion. A day later that whole page had to be scratched when Bro.
Truman came through with colors.

GREAT TEXAS TEAM OF THE EARLY ‘40's

Another time when they slipped up was an issue they played
up the Longhorns of Texas as the nation’s best that year. A
week after publication the team lost to Texas A.&%M., the worst

ALL INTRA-FRAT TEAM

Wildeal Sports [==

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1951

i

PAGE THREE

FROSH VITAL PART OF ’51 WILDCATS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

KA’s CAPTURE TAG Ci

KS Runners-up
In Torrid Race (rf

By WALLACE ABBOTT

“The intramural football season is over, and the KA’s are
the new champions.”’ These are the words that emanated through-
out the campus this past week, as the KA’s went through their
entire season with only one defeat, and thereby became champions
for this year. Not only did they end up on top, but they were in

By DICK LILES

fray

eo oF.

oy
w

fate for any Texas team, and then SMU polished them off the
following Saturday. Of course no one can predict these things
as an early column hinted, and it did look like the best in the
nation.

The correlation between “Life” and this column is
purely coincidental and incidental, but it does seem that
the writer has really pulled some ‘cool’ ones this year.
Take last week for instance. The prediction was that
the cross country team would come in foutth or fifth
in the conference meet. They ran well and the Stockton
combo looked well, but they came in seventh out of
nine teams.

FOOTBALL HAS BEEN HECTIC TO PREDICT

All through the season, we've been plugging for an upset
and sometimes came right out with a prediction of a win. Like
last week when we all hoped for an upset. We really thought
there was a possibility of the team’s winning, but the State
team was too powerful and we made too many mistakes.

Everyone thought that Presbyterian would be: a pushover.
Maybe that’s why we absorbed the licking!. It has been a long
and rough Fall for all concerned with football. We'll make one
last prediction about the Georgia Tech game. —

The Davidson Wildcats will visit the Yellow Jackets in
Atlanta this year for the last (let's hope) game of a two-game
series. The game will be played in ‘‘warm’’ weather. This is
really getting into Dr. Cunningham's territory!

‘‘FAT-JACK” SHINES ON DEFENSE

The man who played a game last Saturday that is beyond
reproach from any quarter is the only man who has made Wild-
cat of the Week twice this season. How could you keep a guy
down that played his heart out in that game and in all the games
this season. Jerry Kiser is by far the hardest-playing footballer
that Davidson has seen in several years. No man can overlook
a fellow who got up off the bench with a hard-hit head and
a cut-up nose and went out to tear up the opposition’s backfield
with such determination and fight. You gotta admire a chubby
senior who has been taking the knocks for four yéars, receiving
more than his share of the injuries, and yet still be willing to
give his all for his team and his school.

It was phenomenal how Jerry made several vicious
tackles from both sides of the line and yet could hardly
see much less remember his defensive assignments. When
the season is over and Jerry Kiser has played his last
collegiate game, he should be awarded with an All-
Southern berth. Although he played for a losing team
that has struggled through a season with one win,
he stands out as a player who deserves all the credit you
might give him. His opposition has praised him more
than his own schoolmates and coaches from several
schools came out with “he’s the best we've been up
; against” or the like.

‘{ FROM THE SPORTS WORLD OF YESTERYEAR
; In 1943 on this weekend, Sid Luckman of the Chicago
“ Bears completed 21 passes for 433 yards and a victory over the
New York Giants. No other passer can make that statement.
A record crowd of 112,912 persons witnessed on this week-
_gd in 1929 the Irish of Notre Dame squeeze by Southern Cali-
fornia 13-12 at Pasadena.

* | Bobby Jones, the world’s greatest amateur golfer and the
only holder of the four ‘‘Grand Slam’’ major golf titles retired
in 19930 at the age of 28. Bobby has lived on to become the pa-
tron saint of the game.

oe “Regem, &

‘

“Cole!” bs a roghtered trade-mark.

first place or tied for first place,
during every week of the campaign.

The KA’s record of 10 wins and
one loss cannot .be attributed to
the play of any one man, but is
consequently, the result. of some
excellent team play. Agreeably, this
sense of team play, instead of in-
dividual standouts, is one thing that
makes the game of tag football
more interesting for the partici-
pants.

In second place we see the Kappa
Sigs hanging on to a hard-fought-
for position. They, too, were up
among the leaders during the en-
tire season and as a result they
came out in the first division, and
in second place. The third place
team in the standings is ‘a team that
has not been up in quite that high
a position until the final week of
play. It was the Betas’ victory over
the Pi Kapps in the last week
that put them in ahead of the other
teams for third place.

Finally, the rest of the first di-
vision is rounded: out by three
teams in a fourth-place tie. They
are the Phi Gams, Sigma Chi’s and
Pi Kapps.

By BO

The opening session of wrestling
practice which began this past
week, was characterized by a
healthy turnout of 25 men, includ-
ing a nucleus charged by four re-
turning lettermen, Gene. Craven,
who captured the 1951 state
A.A.U. 123-pound title, has recent-
ly been elected captain of the 1952
Cat matmen. He competes in the
130-pound division this year. Other
experienced grapplers returning
from last years team are: Jim
Grissom, George Irvin and M. F.
Vail. George “Bucky” Irvin who
was slated for a berth in the 137-
pound class, is inactive at the
present time because of a nose
operation this summer, Jim Gris-
som will hold down the 137-pound
class while M. F. Vail will prob-
ably move up from the 137 to the
147-pound division. Another return-
ing veteran of the collegiate mats
will be Bill McNeeley vicing for
the heavyweight spotlight.

Among this year's promising
prospects is Peter Peck, an experi-
enced grappler, who will take over
the 157-pound spot. Battling it out
for the 123-pound class will be
Bob Walker and Bobby Joe Key,
neither of whom is experienced.

AN OBSERVATION—B. C.
eee pleasant companion

reduces the length
of a Journey

Publilius Syrus

And what better companion could
anyone have than a handy picnic cooler
filled with delicious Coca-Cola.

It’s a sure way to travel refreshed.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD,

© 1981, THe COCA-COLA COMPANY

Grapplers Drill
For Coming Season

Now that the football season is |
completed the sports managers arc] |
groomng their respective athletes |
to be in shape for the wrestling
tournament on November 26, 27,
and 28. Immediately following that
will come the swimming meet on
Deceniper § and 6,

Results

Phi Gams 45 ~.-------- ATO's 20
Kappa Sigs 19 wu... SAF’s 6
Sigma Chi's 31 a... SPE’s 13 a
Betas 19 ....--  -.---- Pi Kapps 7
KA’s 27 ...--. .. Phi Delts 6 e e 8s
Pikas 38 ‘cc o|Marriers Finish

Final Standings With 2-3 R d
KAS ..------. ------ 10 7 I ecor
Betas -.-----.. . & 3} Placing seventh In the annual
Phi Gams -.-. aw 7 4] Southern Conference meet, the Da-
Sigma Chis ane 7 4|vidson cross country team rounded
Pi Kapps ----. - 7 4}out the 1951 season, The score-
SPE. ..------ . 6 §]board shows a record of two wins,
Phi Delts -.. - 4 7\three losses, third place in the
Pikas .------.  ----- 4 7| State meet, and seventh in the con-
SAEs ---.--. --. 2 9} ference. This: is not an inspiring’
ATOs --.-.--. .---- ’ 10| record to look at, but when one
CC ....-------------- u Il fconsiders the type of competition

encountered in the first two meets,
the picture takes a different light.

The Cats opened the season at
home against arch-rival N.C. State,
and followed with the University
of North Carolina, both times ab-
sorbing defeat by rather wide mar-
gins. Then they moved into the
win column with successive wins
over Washington and Lee and Uni-

TYNES

Both of these boys are displaying [dual meot. Coach Pete Whittle’s
considerable adaptiveness to the|charges were edged by Virginia
sport, and will probably be assets: Military by a five-point margin.
to the team. The greatest com-| November 5 found the locals in
petition will be found at the 167-] Raleigh for the State meet and
pound level with nine boys com-|finishing third behind State and

versity of Richmond, In their final’

One has only to look back on the
Wildcats grid record this fall to
know how true the words of Coach
Crowell Little were last winter
when he said, “If the Southern Con-
ference does nat allow freshmen to
compete in varsity football, I hard-
ly. see how we can field a team.”
With the draft or fear of it taking
key men and graduation grabbing
others, the Cats would have been
woefully lacking had not the fledg-
ling been allowed to play with his

Ae

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

No. 27...THE LYNX

upperclassmen this season. Green: | Bob Amos, Dick Babbingion, Leroy

ness, true, hurt Davidson in more
thant one instance this fall, but the

presence of the needed frosh maz}

terial more than offset their inex-
perience.

Pictured above. are the freshmen
who have bolstered the team this
year, Front row (left to Tight):
Walter Yates, Dickie Davis, Charlie
Cousar, Jith Coon, Ralph Williams,

Gene Davis, and John McGee. Back:

row: Ronnie Whitson, Eddie Powe,

peting for this position.

Carolina. Last Monday the: harriers

Paul Scott, temporary coach, journeyed to Durham to bring back
feels that this year's aggregate 15} seventh place honors in the Con-

potentially stronger than the ’51
Cat team. Athletic Director Paul
Scott is taking over the wrest-
ling charges until football season
alleviates Charlie Parker, but ne Stockton.
coaching of the team throughout
the year, Coach Scott adds that
he hopes the successfulness of the
team will tend to draw more at-

will continue to assist in

(Continued On Page Four)

Sports Mirror

One year ago...

ference meet,

Ry far the brightest Ilght for
the Wildcats has been senior co-
captain and number one man, ‘Tom
Tom took first in four
of the five dual meets, defeated only
by State and Conference champion
Clyde Garrison of N. C. State, and
set records on two consecutive
weekends against U.N.C., and Rich-
mond, The Winston-Salem native
crossed- the line third in the State
meet and fourth in the Conference
setto,

Pushing Tom all fall have been
co-captain and twin brother Dick

Betas and Kappa Sigs tied for }Stockton, Bob Henry, Bill Lee and

Fraternity Crown.
Five years ago .

Woodbury — tramples

Freshmen, 18-0.

Ten years ago...

Davidson

Steve Lach and Duke's Power

roll over Cat eleven, 57-0.
Twenty years ago...

Bill Shipley. Stuart Plummer,
Johnny Smith, Paul Alexander and
freshmen Floyd Feeney, Joe Caudell
and Bob Charles have been match-
ing strides to round out the squad.

The loss of the Stocktons and Lee
will be a big one for the Cats, but
the steady improvement of Henry
and Shipley is expected to take up

Davi F ‘ Carat .
avidson triumphs over Carolina the slack .for those returning next

7-6.

Thirty-five years ago...
Red and Black outplayed by
Carolina, 41-6.

year.

Patronize Our Advertisers—
It Pays!

Wildcat of Week . . . . Kiser

By BOB OWENS

“I was certainly glad when Kiser
left the game; he is the only guy
who has knocked the H— out of
me this season.” Those were the
words of N. C. State’s All-Ameri-
can candidate, Elmer Costa, prais-
ing the work of Jerry Kiser in Da-
vidson’s game with N, C. State
last weck, Although the final score
stood 31-0 State, this was no in-
dication of the type game Kiser
played. He put his 5’ 9", 235-pound
frame to good ,use in treading
through the. big Wolfpack line and
downing plays before they could
get started.

This ‘is the second time Jerry
has been honored as Wildcat of
the week, and, truly, if anyone ever
deserved it, he does. Davidson's line
coach, Buddy Chandler, considers
Kiser the best defensive guard in

the south; not only from local
sources but also from past oppo-
nents does this same praise appear.
Coach George Barclay of Wash-
ington and Lee praised Kiser in
this manner: “He is one of the
finest defensive guards we have
played against this season. Time
after time he broke through our.
line and broke up our plays.”
Coach Quinn Decker of The Cita-
del had this to say: “I think Jerry
Kiser is one of the best linemen
we have faced this year.”

Winning honors such as this is
nothing new to Jerry Kiser. In his
senior year he won all-state honors
at Shelby High and played in the
Shrine Bowl classic at Charlotte.
Kiser, who is alternate captain of
the Wildcat eleven, played four
years of ball for Shelby, serving
as captain in his last season,

whee

This sporty student really teed off on a long tirade
when he found himself stymied on the “single puff”
and “one sniff” cigarette tests. “They're strictly
for the birdies!” said he. He realized that
cigarette mildness requires more deliberation

than a cursory inhale or exhale. Millions of
smokers concur — there’s only one true test of
mildness and flavor in a cigarette.

It’s the sensible test . . . the 30-Day Camel
Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try
Camels as your steady smoke on a day-after-day,
pack-alter-pack basis. No snap judgments! Once
you've tried Camels for 30 days in your “T-Zone”’
(‘I' for Throat, T for Taste), you'll see why .. .

After all the Mildness Tests...

Fargason, Henty, Brown, and Char-
lie Rankin, Not pictured were:
Wallace Pate, Jim Thacker, Harold

Peterson, John Buxton, John Archer
and Dean Edwards.

Your share right now, if all the
gold in the world were distributed
equally, would be $21.39.—Ameri-
can Magazine.

b
g
o
:
Z
v

Camel leads all other brands by Ai//ons
