PAGE TWO

ee an

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

en + er ————————
EDITUR IN CHIEF .-------.-------------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ....... ------------- JOHN LOFTIN

pS
Associate Editors .-.-~... Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor Shelley Beard
Managing Editors ........ Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George
McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott

mes weew wee ewes coerce ss wmnooooresees

City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White

Assitant Business Manager -....----..--. —---------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager -...----.-~----------- Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager -..---..----..---------------- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager ----.----.-------.------------- Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager ....----------~ ----------- -e---~ Bill Hart

i
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Platform Boxscore

In one of the early issues of the Davidsonian last fall
we published for the first time a platform for a better
Davidson. From time to time, editorials plugging for these
different planks have been written; bat in looking back
over the box score, we must confess that ‘only a few scratch
hits, a number of strikeouts and nothing approaching a
home run have been made.

Let us consider the hits.

1. There has been some change made in the system of
elections this year. While it is still far from perfect
and smooth-running, changes for the better have been
made and should continue to be made as the future
demands.

2. Asa whole chapel programs have been better this
year. True, there have been a few so-so ones which
tend to stand out in everybody’s mind, but the over-
all caliber has been improved.

8. Student regulations have been made clear to the
students on all occasions when there might have been
any cause for misunderstanding. This of course has
been largely due to the efforts of Randy Taylor and
the Student Council who have been untiring in their
efforts to interpret and clarify muddled rules and
reculations.

4. We have not hesitated to give praise when it was
deserved by persons or organizations.

5. When it seemed to be justified. we have likewise
not hesitated to criticize in an effort to improve un-
desirable: situations.

Among our strikeouts may be included the cut sys-
tem, double cuts. and improved telephone arrangements
in the dormitories. There has been nothing written about
relieving all seniors from PT, because it was diseovered
that it was not necessary to do so.

The Davidsonian can blush only modestly for the
hits and apologize for the errors. Regardless of the final
score, at least a start has been made in opening the minds
of students and faculty to some of the needs at Davidson.
The thing that has been most discouraging to us has been
the. lack of student interest in our efforts. A poll among
the students would without doubt be overwhelmingly in
favor of changing the cut system, of doing away with
double cuts, of ‘having improved telephone arrangements
—and countless other changes ‘which were not in the plat-
form. But there it ends. The majority would then sit back
enshrouded ‘in their customary air of complacency and
wait from a miracle from above, which of course never

‘comes,

A newspaper, college or independent, cannot in itself
bring about changes. All it can do is present the facts and
make a few suggestions. Then it is up to individuals or
organizations to continue the ball rolling. The least that
one ean do is to voice an opinion in the Editor’s Mailbox
column of the paper. A look back over the past issues of
the Davidsonian reveals that students seem to be so satisfied
with everything at Davidson that fewer than half a dozen
letters have been written all year long. Obviously, such is
not the case, but it would appear to be so to an outsider.

For be it from the Davidsonian to get the reputation
of being a gripe sheet or a chronic fault finder. What we
have editorialized about has come as the result of a great
deal of sincere and soul-searching thought. In spite of our
love for ole D. C. we are aware that she is not perfect, and
this love for our school has been made manifest in our
attempts to make Davidson even better through the edi-
torial column. We believe that we as a newspaper have
done our part. The students must come to bat next.

We would strongly urge students who want to see
changes made next year at Davidson to become organized
in their efforts. Petitions signed by a large- number of
students cannot be overlooked entirely by the powers that
be. The backing of student organizations such as ODK
Phi Beta Kappa, and the Literary Societies would be in-
valuable. Then, the Editor's Mailbox in this paper is al-
ways ready to receive and publish student ‘etters.

The opportunity is clearly before us as it has always
been. The big question is whether students next year will
become actively interested in making a better Davidson
or wake up this time next year and realize that all they
did was to gripe and mutter under their breath about
what should be done.

. THE

DAVIDSONIAN

ane

ae?

“vou SIMPLE TooLs’”

GEECH’S GOULASH

By PAT McGEACHY

Once apon a time, shortly after the Industrial
Revelation, the tiny country of Misereria, a small
dot of land along the- Rhine, decided to become
a democracy. This seemed to be okay with the
king, so they set about to elect some rulers—
presidents and that sort of thing. Since Miser-
eria had a very small population, it was felt that
everybody knew everybody else well enough to
choose a government ‘without any campaigning.
And they did manage to elect a government of
pretty fair people, except most of them were
not too enthusiastic about it, as they weren't
mnueh interested in politics.

Then there was a considerable war, and Mi-
sereria jyst about doubled its population. The
election system began to grow a little inade-
quate, but no changes were made, as a buneh
of die-hard conservatives were running things,
and they were a little afraid of moving things
around too much.

The people, however, because they no longer
knew the candidates very well, became pretty
well disinterested in the whole thing and took
it very lightly. As a matter of fact, they even
began nominating village characters and ath-
letes who didn’t give a rap about public respon-
sibility. Eventually it got so bad that the king,
who had very little to do under this democratic
set-up, decided to call a meeting of the country’s
leading citizens to decide what was to be done.

Basilov Smith, a ‘wine merchant, suggested —

that they let those who wanted to run for of-
fice, do so if they felt they could do a good job.
They would also be allowed to form a party,
set up a platform, and campaign. But this meth-

od had never been tried before in Misereria, so
the die-hard conservatives were not in favor of
it. John Karamazov, a clergyman, carefully ex-
plained to Smith that he had heard about other
countries, such as America, where they had open
campaigning, and he knew how nasty it ‘was.
No, they could never inflict an evil such as this
on chaste little Misereria. The status quo was
doing all right—why change horses in the mid-
dle of the stream?

So things went along about as usual, except
that the elections became more and moré of 8
farce until finally, the king, realizing that his
beloved country was about to go to pot, execut-
ed a benevolent coup d’ grace, and appointed
the government himself. This was much better.
The king was pretty wise and appointed pretty
good: governments, and it was oh so much easier
on the poor people, who might have had to
think if open campaigning had been adopted.

It is interesting to note that the king ap-
pointed Basilov Smith as the new president,
and he did pretty well, in spite of the fears of
his conservative congress. We may, I think, draw
one or two parallels from this. It takes a lot of
guts to do anything worth while, and it takes a
lot of honest work to stand up for your rights.
Each of us is really like one pot, on a shelf with
many pots. If one pot starts rolling, a few may
get broken, but at least they will get somewhere.
And if they don’t get anywhere, pretty soon
the gardener will come around and fill up the
pots swith dirt and plant cactus and things in
them.

You see?

THE POT BOILS

In the March 16 issue of the Da-
vidsonian there appeared on the
editorial page a short review of
“The Mind's Adventure” by How-
ard Lowery. The review was aimed

specifically at those whose inter--

ést (in Davidson and in education
generally) “is more than luke-
warm.” The book itself dealt with
whether religion can be a part of
higher education or can education
itself be called “higher” if it ex-
cludes religion. These questions
might be said to be of interest only
to educators and theologians. If
having an interest more than luke-
warm is the criterion for interest
in this subject, then it is quite pos-
sible that the two groups named
above are the only ones who would
be interested in the book.

However, on being questioned by
several students as to why a book
having such a limited appeal was
reviewed in the paper, it seemed
to me that the questions the book
poses should be seen in a broader
aspect. How much broader? Broad
enough to eliminate interest, luke-
warm, hot or cold. For whether or
not you are interested in the spe-
cific questions posed by the book
as they relate to education, you
are going to answer them in their
broader aspects, thinkingly or un-
thinkingly, in your own life.

Why are these questions neces-
sarily to be answered regardless of
interest in higher education and re-
ligion? For the simple reason that

By HENRY HANSEN

behind this somewhat academic
question stands an_ increasingly
sharp conflict between the mater-
ialistic and the spiritualistic or, if
you will, the Christian view of life,
what is important in it, and what
makes it meaningful to educators,
theologians, and to vou and me.
If anyone doubts the existence
of the conflict, fet him consult
Wylie’s “Generaton of Vipers” or,
if as it likely will, inertia prevents
the trip to the library, look at any
magazine. Very well represented
will be the battle forces of mater-
ialism, drawn up in an imposing
array of advertisements whose main
purpose it is to show the vital
necessity of using “Arrid,” driving
a Cadillac or the buying of this or
that without which you can hardly
expect to be happy, loved, or re-
spected, One has to look harder
to find the combatant, spiritualism.
Too often, perhaps, it is badly rep-
resented, but more and more often
today it is drawing to its aid in-
tellect and ability sick with disgust

at the doctrine of things as the sine

qua non in life.

Interesting as the observation of
the battle may be, we must not for-
get that every man chooses, at
some point ,the banner under which
his life will be lived. As stated be-
fore, this may or may not be done
consciously; certainly it should be
done thinkingly. Why? Because ma-
terialism at first glance is admitted-
ly much more attractive in its pre-

sentation and, if no thought is ex-
pended, will more often than not
capture the young mind in search
of a way of life. Once having de-
cided in favor of the materialistic
outlook, it is often too late to turn
back, for the disillusioned mind
finds it hard. to accept anything,
even the opposite to that which has
caused the disillusionment.

For these reasons, then, it is
urged that the choice be made
thinkingly. For the same reasons it
is urged that facile derogatory crit-
isisms of Davidson and schools like
her be analyzed well before accep-
tance. For the same reasons it is
proposed that, though adverse crit-
icism of Davidson may be right on
specific points, nevertheless she
stands, behind all her Neo-Classic
trappings and elegant ways, for the
spiritualistic force which, alone, is
an effective foe of materialism. Im-
plicit in all of this is the assump-
tion that what Davidson stands for
is right. Is there disagreement?
Let me say that it was expected,
but don’t make the choice unthink-
ingly. Don’t let Cadillac and Jew-
els by Van Cleef and Arpels ture
you unthinkingly into the ranks of
materialism. Lowry’s book is called
the mind’s adventure. A book deal-
ing with the implications of what
he says might well be called
The: Imperative Necessity of the
Mind’s Adventure.

FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 195)

“PRIVILEGED CASTE”?
HARDLY!

By DICK ROPER

Leave us hang our heads for
shame, men. Overnight we have be-
come a bunch of lawful draft dod-
gers, Alger Hisses, and members
of a new “privileged class” which
spends its time chasing coeds
around fraternity drinking rooms.
Since the new student deferment
plan was announced a couple of
weeks ago, editorial writers, col-
umnists, and many other observers
have been having a field day taking
pot shots at us and shouting where
is our country’s democracy.

Two of the most notable of these
attacks have come from the New
York Times and Mr. Robert Ru-
ark, the two of whom are just
about as far apart as possible in
the field of journalism. The vener-
able, conservative Times attacks
the deferment plan on the grounds
that its standards are “ridiculously
low,” and asserts that there is no
“sacred cult of college men in this
democracy” who are not liable to
military service. Mr. Ruark, the
outraged defender of democracy,
told his readers (his column fills
up white space in dailies all over
America) that “lo, behold, and for-
sooth, we now have a poor man’s
war... and a brand new caste
system in the country”; that we
“draft the Al Smiths and exempt
the Alger Hisses”; and that “this
block deferment. of students and
smart guys is an insult to every
cross at Anzio, and to every civ-
ilian who presently wears the uni-
form of his country.”

On all-but one point, we beg to
differ with both the Times editorial
and Mr. Ruark.

In the first place, we do not be-
lieve that the plan for deferment
is “ridiculously low,” as the Times
says; on the contrary, in the next
few years it should give rise to a
small army of Phi Beta Kappas.
As it was shown here last week, a
student attempting to take advan-
tage of the class standing provision
of the deferment plan will find it in-
creasingly difficult each year to
return to school. After four years
only 25 percent of an original
freshman class could graduate un-
der this provision, which, even af-
ter taking into consideration the
number of pre-ministerial, pre-med-
ical, and other specially deferred
students, leaves quite a few other

young Americans available for can-

non fodder. As for the other pro-
vision, it should suffice to say that

the passing grade of 70 on the
special examination could not be
made by more than 16’percent of
the general public, including both
men and women holding college
diplomas.

In his usual facetious style, Mr.
Ruark has enlarged on the Times’
comment on the “sacred cult: of
college men” that the new plan
suposedly would create. He even
uses the word exempt in the vitri-
olic comment above. We wish that
once and for all, the public would
understand that a deferred student
eventually has to serve just as long
as anyone else, whether he be a
playboy or a beach bum.

It will be argued that by the
time these students who are being
deferred graduate, the present cri-
sis will be over. To this we can
only say that from all sides we are
being bombarded with warnings
and prophesies that we will be en-
gaged in World War III by 1954,
or as soon as Russia feels like of-
ficially entering this little “police
action” we have been reading about.
Should this come to pass, several
hundred thousand of the “Alger
Hisses” graduated in the meantime
would have plenty of chances to
get’ in: their licks with M1} rifles and
bayonets.

Finally, we would like to say that,
the honorable columnist’s remarks
to the contrary, we suspect that
there are colleges in this country
that don't leave too much time
for such activities as chasing coeds
around fraternity drinking rooms.
We know little about Mr. Ruark
University of North Carolina, class
of '35) and less of his views on
education, but we do believe that
the large majority of college stu-
dents have higher interests than
becoming brothers in Alcoholics
Unanimous.

On anything as all-inclusive and
far-reaching as the student defer-
ment plan, there will be those who
will try to take advantage of the
authorities’ good intentions. Natur-
ally there will be slackers going to
college for no other reason than
to evade the draft. But we wish
that people who want to attack
the new deferment plan would not

insult the honor and integrity of-
the hundreds of thousands of stu-
dents who honestly want to go to
college to get the benefits of a
higber education.

Qne whisker
doesnit make
a bluebeard

—but Cigars are
a Mans Smoke!

You need not inhale
to enjoy a cigar!

CIGAR INSTITUTS OF AMBRICA, INO.

