EIGHT SRS. AND ONE JR. ELECTED TO PHI BETA KAPPA

Eight Davidson seniors and one junior accepted offers of mem-

bership into Phi Beta Kappa this week. The men were Arnie Covell, Dick

Harris, Sam Joyner, John Kelton, Ralph Lewis, Thad Monroe, J. B.
Stroud, Kenneth Wilson-Jones, aril Jack Hunter. A brief resume of each

man and his recent collegiate achievements is as follows:

ARNIE COVELL
Hailing from DeFuniak Springs, Fla., Arnie is a member of Phi Delta Theta

social fraternity. He plans to enter the, ficld of medicine after completing his edu-
cation. A member of Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity and Alpha Epsilon Delta,
Arnie was managing editor of the Davidsonian last year. He gave his cfforts to the

Cat grapplers in that same year.

DICK HARRIS

A teacher-to-be, Dick sings with the Male Chorus. He is an Alpha Tau
Omega brother and resides in Asheville, N. C.. While taking ROTC he was

named to the honor of Distinguished Military Student. He is also a member of

the honorary German society here, Delta Phi Alpha.
SAM JOYNER

Sam is connected with Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and also a member of
Phi Literary Society. He was president of his class both in junior and senior

Che Mavidsonian

ALENDA LUK UB)

400 PATRIOTS BLEED

FOR THEIR COUNTRY

VOLUME XXXIX

7 On

JOHN KELTON

takes the shortest route to Port Tampa City, Fla.

Degree in June.

RALPH LEWIS

THAD MONROE

toward a B. S. 1 Degree.

J. B. STROUD

years. He plans to be a doc and calls Kernersville, N. C., home.

Captain of this year's wrestling team and active worker with the Y Christ-
mas Gift Find’ describes but one man. John Kelton is also a member of Sigma
Chi social fraternity and the Spanish Club. He is a past member of Eumanean
Literary Society and is on the D Club's roll. When holidays are declared, John

Planning to enter business, Ralph finds his social fraternity connections
with Sigma Alpha Epsilon. For outstanding work in Spanish, he was tendered a
bid to Sigma Delta Pi. This Greensboro senior anticipates receivirg a B. S. 2

Thad, who is from Fayetteville, N. C., is a member of Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity. A pre-med, he joined Alpha Epsilon Delta last year. Gamma Sigma
Epsiion, honorary chemistry fraternity, extended him a bid also. Thad is working

Also a Beta, J. B. plans to enter the ficld of teaching upon graduation, He
is associated with Sigma Pi Sigma, an honorary physics fraternity founded on this

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY,

o

Johnson Returns With
Famed Qhio Orchestra

The famous Cincinnati
phony Orchestra, directed by Thor
Johnson, one of America’s leading
musicians, will present the third
program in the Davidson Artist.
Series, on Saturday, March 17, be-
ginning at 8:15.

The orchestra, now on a nation-
wide tour, combines the talents of
78 high-ranking musicians, and is
generally recognized as oné of the
finest symphonic ensembles in the
workl. With a background of fine
musical traditions dating back to
the beginning of the nineteenth
century, it came into being in 1895
in response to the demands of mu-
sical Cincinnati for a permanent
orchestra of the first rank which
would give frequent interpretations
of the best in the musical litera.
ture of the world. The first com-
plete series of symphony concerts
in Cincinnati was given during the
season 1895.96, and since that time,
the orchestra has striven to include
in its personnel artists of the very
highest rank, and to program con-
certs only of the very best in music,
in which the most promising of the
modern works is given a hearing
together with the enduring works
of the masters,

Some of the most valuable in.
struments in the world are in the
possession of the Cincinnati play-

(Continued On Page Three)

Robinson, Davies

Made Frat Heads

Highlighting fraternity activities
of late are the election of officers
of the K. A.’s and the Phi Delts
and the initiation of pledges of Sig.
ma Alpha Epsilon and Beta Theta
Pi. In a recent election Bryan Rob-
inson, of Thomasville, Georgia, was
elected president of Sigma chapter
of Kappa Alpha for 1951-52. Other

officers elected were. Pan-Hell rep-
resentative, Bill Adams, of Seneca,
S. C., Vice President Bill Buckey,
of Charlotte, N. C., and Secretary
Tony Tucker, of Laurel, Mississip-
pi. The offices of Corresponding
secretary, historian, and treasurer
are filled by appointment and will
be so in the near future.

The North Carolina Gamma
chapter of Phi Delta Theta has
elected Al Davies as president for
next year. Others elected at the
same time were: Pan-Hell Repre-
sentative Ken Taylor, Reporter
Bob Posten, Treasurer Ed Sutton,
Alumni Secretary, Pete Ormsby, Re-
cording Secretary Allen Strand,
Warden Don Lazenby, Chorister
Fletcher Bright, Librarian Bill Ba-
con, and Chaplain George Nickels.
Also appointed Rush Chairman was
Bob Posten.

The boys wearing sackcloth and
going about with upraised hands
are the pledges of S.A.E. Johnny
Stiefel is president of the pledge
class of sixtcen to be formally ini-
tiated Friday night, March 16. Sat-
utday night the new members will
be present at a banquet and dance

Sym-%

L

4

MR. AND MRS. JOHN P. McKNIGHT

McKnight, Former AP Newsman
To Explore Communism Here

John P. McKnight, who
wilt speak Sunday April 1 at 4:00
p. m. on the subject “Ideology of
Communism,” has spent most of the
last twenty years abroad as an
Associated Press correspondent.

Mr. McKnight, a graduate of Da-
vidson, class of '28, spoke here last
January 8 on the “new isolationism”
and “attempts to halt communism.”

Having just recently returned
from a five year trip in Europe
most of which time was spent in
Italy as A. P. Correspondent to
Rome, he is completing a book
that was born out of Italian news-
paper experiences. The book is a
critical study of Pope Pius and the
Papal position in light of the world
situation today. While in Rome he
witnessed the crucial 1948 election
which saw the thumping defeat of
the strong Italian Communist move.
ment. He is well qualified from
first hand reports to speak on the
communist movement from his ex-
periences in Italy.

Mr. McKnight has had a long
varied newspaper career working
for the Shelby Star, the Wilming-
ton Dispatch and the Charlotte
News before joining the Associated
Press in August 1929. He was sent
to Cuba in 1930 to cover the revo.
lution and served in other posi-
tions in New York, Miami, Mex-
ico City, Lisbon, Madrid, Rio de
Janerio, Santiago (Chile), San Juan
and Puerto Rico.

Given leave. of absence for mili-
tary duty in 1942, he was commis-
sioned a captain for intelligence
work. He spent 33 months in the
Antilles department, the last 15
months as head of its Information-
Education section, and was dis.
charged with the rank of major in
August, 1945. From here he was
sent to Rome, where he super-

vised coverage of the 1946 papal
consistories.

At Davidson, McKnight was a
member of Phi Betd Kappa, Sigma
Upsilon, and Phi Delta Theta so-
cial fraternity, and was active in
the French-and Spanish Clibs. He
also contributed to campus publi-
cations and served as his class
poct and historian.

Cats Outshoot
Wofford Team

The Rifle Team travelled t
South Carolina last weekend, to
fire against Clemson on Friday
and Wofford on Saturday. The
Wildcat rifle team lost to Clemson
by the close score of 1827 to 1821.
The match was not decided until
the very end. Both scores are con.
sidered very good. High firer for
Davidson was Aubrey  Miree.
Saturday afternoon the team de-
feated Wofford by a wide margin,
1797 to 1668. High scorer in this
match was J. P. Thompson.

Firing continued during the week
on the finals of the National Inter-
collegiate Match for which the
team qualified in February. The
first of four stages has been com.
pleted with a score of 1949 out of
2000. This score is 9 poitits ahead
of the score fired in the qualifying
match. Firing is scheduled to be
completed on the match by 31
March

NOTICE
Due to the spring holidays, the
Davidsonian will not be published
for the next two weeks. The next
issue will appear on the campus
April 6.

r lv G sg wr at wv

BULLETIN

Griffith G. Levering. resi-
dent vice-president of Lumber.
men’s Mutual Casualty Co. in
Philadelphia, awarded Gordon
Scott, editor-in-chief of the
Davidsonian, a check for $250
in chapel today. The check is
in recognition of the David-
sonian's winning second place
in a recent. traffic safety con-
test sponsored by Lumber.
men’s. Guy Peters, special
agent for Lumbermen’s, and
George F. Jones of Westbrook
Insurance Co., also participat-
ed in the ceremony.

Open to both daily and non-
daily college newspapers, the
contest was held in an effort
to réduce the death rate among
college-age drivers.

WILDCAT CLUB
TO HEAR COACH

Davidson's Wildcat Club
will meet to hear reports on its
first-year of activity at eleven
o'clock Saturday in Chambers
Auditorium. Mentbers will hear
an initial financial summary,
a review of. the past football
season and prospectus for 1951
and an overall report on the
s * gener progress.

-FB, LL. Jackson will an-
nounce that a total of $27,055
in cash and pledges was col-
lected in the first year of solici-
tation. A goal of $37,000 was
set, but discontinued when it
was found that the present fig-
ure would be more than suf-
ficient to mect the need for
athletic scholarships.

Next speaker will be Coach
Crowell Little who is expected
to review last scason's grid
outfit. The members will be
presented with his plans and
prospectus for next year. His
report is to cover Davidson

(Continued on Page Six)

ee

football.

campus. He is a member of the Scabbard and Blade and played, one year of J. V.

KEN WILSON-JONES _

; Former president of Le Cercle Francais, Ken is also a member of the
Spanish Club. He plays in the band and attends meetings of the International
Relations Club. When the roll is calted at’ Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity
meetings, Ken is present. He expects to be awarded an AB Degree.

JACK HUNTER

; Representing the Kappa Alpha Order .in this group is Jack Hunter from
Winston-Salem, N. C. He was a prominent member of the Forensic Council this
season and a member of the Scripts ‘n Pranks staff. Jack is a member of Sigma

Upsilon and a member of Le Cercle Francais. Last year, as a sophomore, Jack
, was chosen parliamentarian of Eumancan Literary Society and is treasurer of that

group this year.

All but two of these men are North Carolinians and three of the nine plan
to enter medicine. Three will be teachers, one a businessman and one a lawyer.

Generally, Phi Beta Kappa stands for liberal ‘scholarship, the “humanities

ORTA LIBERTAS

MARCH 16, 1951

Ballard Applauds A

400 Pt. Blood Mark|In ()

The Red Cross BJéod Drive,
conducted at the College Infirmary,
last Friday, was -highly successful,
all records for a single day's col-
lection in Mecklenburg County by
a Bloodimobile being hroken. A
total of 292 pints were donned dur-
ing the actual operation at the ln-
firmary. It is estimated that well
over 100 would-be donnors were
turned away because of lack of
time. In addition to the figure of
292, blood was given on 2 ‘special
occasions by groups of students go-
ing to Charlotte. On Tuesday af-
ternoon, March 6, the Male Chorus
and the Rifle Team, both of which
were going to be away from the
campus on the donning day, both
went to Charlotte, largely on their
own time. On Tuesday afternoon,
the 13th, the Wrestling Team and
other students and townspeople,
numbering well over 50, went to
the Blood Center. These additiayal
contributions will all be counted in
the final Davidson figure, which
should be in the vicinity of 400. It

-.|is believed that there could have

been mary more, had there been
time. Also, there were quite a num-
ber of students whose release forms
did not arrive in time or who did.
n't obtain the release form through
a misunderstanding.

Colonel Ballard, chairman of the
drive as he was in the first drive,
conducted “in October, wishes to
express the deep appreciation of
the American Red Cross and the
Military Department of the College

for the superb response of the

college students, faculty, and towns- |

people to this worthy enterprise.
So great was the response that
many people willingly stood in line
for long periods of time. The re-
sult of the total effort was that the
previous record for the county was
exceeded by nearly 100 percent, it
is understood.

and intellectual freedom which it believes to be the basis of a cooperative hu-
manity in a world at peace.

REPORTER RAPS

RUSSIANS

NUMBER NINTEEN

Profs., Guest Join Students

pen Talks Fri, Sat, Sun.

The Y. M. C. A. is bringing “Communism” to light with a
forum on the Davidson College campus the weekend of Friday
March 30 through Sunday. April 1. Mr. John P. McKnight,
AP Correspondent to the vatican, will be the guest speaker and:
Professors Johnston, McGeachy,

UNC DISCLOSES
MOREHEAD GIFT

The University of North Caro-
lina has announced the ‘new More.
head Scholarships, which will be
awarded to outstanding graduates:
of a sclected list of North Carolina
universities, colleges, and junior col-
leges Who wislr to pursue studies
in the post-graduate and. or pro-

fessional schools at Chapel Hill.
Euch scholarship is worth 1,500
dollars, and at the present time

scholarships are being awarded for
one year only. The scholarship reg-
ulations state that candidates for
the. scholarships shall be chosen
by a local Selection Committee
composed of up to but. not execed.
ing five faculty. members, with the
president of the local school acting
as chairman of the committee. In
selecting candidates, the local com-
mittee will be searching for certain
required qualities. Some definite
quality .of distinction, whether in
intellect, character, or personality,
or in any combination of these,. is
the most important requirement
for a Morehead Scholarship. The
Morehead scholar should not be a
one-sided man. Plrysical vigour is
an essential qualification for a
scholarship, but athletic prowess
is of less importance than the mor.
al qualities developed in playing
outdoor games. Financial need
does not give any claim to a scho-
larship. The local Selection Com-
mittee may nominate up to but not
exceeding five students, The five

(Continued on Page Six)

The Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra

ee er

Brown, Guerrant. Holloman,

Wilson and Lt. Col. Ballard will
each talk on some phase-c# Com.
munism,

Inttoducing the forum “Commun-
isnv’ on Friday morning March
30. Dr. Frontis Johnston will pre-
sent in chapel “The History of The
Communist Party.” That‘ evening
wt 7:30 p. om. Dr. John A. Me-
Geach, Jr., will discuss “The His.
tory af Russia,” while Lt. Col.
James L. Ballard, Jr., will review
“Russia Ag A Military Power.” A
film on Communism will also be
shown,

On Saturday afternoon, March
31 at 4:00 p.m. Dr. C. K. Brown
will talk on “Economics of Comr
munism.” That evening at 7:30
p. m. there will be a debate on eith-
er the inevitability of war or for-
mation of a non-Communist world
organization with Dr: E. O. Guer-
rant and Mr. Jack V. Hunter op-
posing Prof. C. R. Holloman and
Mr. Pete -Kalogridis.

Sunday afternoon, April 1 at 4:00
p. in, Mr. John P. McKnight,
guest speaker, will talk on “Com.
nunist Propaganda Tactics.” At 6:30
p. m. Westminister Fellowship will
be devoted to the subject “Chris-
tianity and Communism” with a
discussion led by Prof. W. I. Wil-
son.

The Y.M.C.A. feels that the var-
ious phases of this subject which
will be discussed, should be of
vital interest to Davidson men in
view of Communism’s direct ef-
fect on their lives in this chaotic
world situation.

The committee in charge of the.
forum consists of Hartly Hall.
Thomas Mann, Bryan Robinson,
Frank Hanshaw, Hugh Puckett,
Stuart Shippey, Palmer Shelborne,
Hubert Cannon, Irving Stubbs,
Prof. B. D. Thompson, and Prof.
R. W. Tyson.

Forced Chapel
Hotly Debated

The Forensic Council was in
charge of this last Tuesday's chap-
el and presented a short mock de-
bate on compulsory chapel. The
query, “Resolved: That Davidson
should have voluntary chapel.” was
defended by Owen Kellum and Hu-
bert Cannon, while the negative
team was composed of Dave Moy-
lan and Pete Kalogridis. Even
though the arguments were limit-
ed to. four-minute constructive
speeches and no rebuttals, many of
the prevalent views of the student
body were brought to the open.
The debate was prefaced with the
statement that the arguments pre-
sented by the debaters were not
necessarily their personal convic-
tions, but that the debate was giv.
en for the sole purpose of present-
ing two opposing views.

Following is a brief summary of

(Continued on Page Six)
