The day Derrick Bar-
ton’s boat from Britain
docked at Davidson,
things began to happen
in our tennis world.
Fast on the heels of
The Broad-A One came
the touring troupe of
y the nation’s top net-

, ters—Riggs, Gonzales,
Kramer, ete.; we began
to play host to the
Southern Junior and
Boys tennis tourna-
ments each June; and
we landed the Southern
conference tennis tour-
nament. Davidson came
to be known as one with a wide swing in the tennis racket.

Just last April Paul Scott automobiled in from Iowa, and
already things have begun to happen in our wrestling world.

A man who has coached several national wrestling champion
teams, served on the national AAU wrestling rules committee,
served as chairman of the Iowa AAU Wrestling Association,
and lived with the sport most of his life is naturally going to
drag some of the soil with him when he is transplanted.

It was hard for Athletic Director Scott to restrain ‘wrestling
Coach Seott this fall when the Wildcat grapplers began grunt-
ing into shape. But a good man in Charlie Parker was at the
helm so Mr. Scott contented himself with wrestling with sched-
ule problems and dropping down once or twice a week to workout
with the matsmen, pointing out a hold here, a new trick there.
He even got a full week of coaching in when Parker was ill
with the flu, the first he’d done since early fall when Charlie
was busy as football trainer.

But Scott’s dealing with Davidson wrestling comes in a
more indirect and yet a more far-reaching manner than coach-
ing. He is going to lift wrestling off the mat, give it a few
new holds, and attempt to make a real competitor out of it.

First, he dressed up the sport a bit. New warm-ups for the
varsity, a new mat four matches, introduction of the grapplers
before each match. To get folks interested, he figured, you’ve
got to get the sport out in the daylight where they could look
at it, and he knew they could be interested. He had seen full
fieldhouses of interested folk out West and elsewhere where
the old Greek game is really reeled off.

Mr. Scott found out this winter that vaulting wrestling from
bottom to top can be no over-night feat. Nor did he expect it
to be. But match results hidden like obituaries on the sports
pages, never a wrestler’s mug breaking the monotony of basket-
ball pans on the pages from December. to March—no wonder
the going is tough. To get interest then, one needs publicity.

Publicity is on its way now, thanks to step two in the
Seott program for revitalized wrestling. What started out to
be the Carolina AAU wrestling tournament and which may end
up as a national district junior AAU meet is going to be held in
the house Scott now calls ‘‘home away from home,” Johnston
Gym.

‘A friend of mine who is athletic director at Iowa State
is the national AAU wrestling commissioner,’’ Scott explains.
‘sWhen I wrote and told him of the Carolina AAU meet we
were planning here (Scott is Carolina AAU wrestling chairman
already) he asked if we wouldn’t like to have the district junior
tournament. I naturally told him that we did want it, because
it would be a much bigger tournament, but I replied with
reservation.

“Tf we hold the national junior meet for this district, the
national AAU will have to allow for entrance fees to be used
in payment on the AAU trophies which we will award. We
were going to buy the trophies and defray other expenses with
entrance money for the AAU meet. Also, I wish they’d let me
know the size of this district (of which Seott is also now com-
missioner!). Generally it includes the area from the District of
Columbia, down to southeast Florida, and west to the
Alleghanies. But we'll have to get a little more explicit than
that!’’

By BILL WHITE

The junior meet is for any ‘wrestler who has never won a8

first, second, or third in an AAU national match before. Hence
almost every man entered to date in the Carolina meet will
still be eligible for this bigger contest which replaces it.

The March 9-10 tourney should be a shot in the arm to
wrestling in this area, and Davidson should be proud to promote
it. Certainly it is going to promote Davidson. As Scott points
out, wrestling throughout the Southern Conference is far below
the national level. The reason simply is the lack of pre-college
training in the high schools such as they get in Pennsylvania,
Iowa, Oklahoma, Illinois and Indiana. Interest needs to be
drummed up among the youngsters, and what better way than
by the colleges seeking their talent in later years. ‘Wrestling
is a wonderful sport,”’ Scott emphasizes. ‘‘It gives many a boy
who hasn’t the weight or height to play, say, football or
basketball, a chance at a real sport. There is team spirit
prevalent, too. If you don’t believe it, watch the eyes of the
team as the heavyweight grapples in the final match for points
which will mean victory or defeat. .

“I'd like to see wrestling installed in our intramural pro-
gram, too, holding it before the varsity season begins. You can
turn up talent that way. Yes, I think it would be a fine substi-
tution for boxing which many high schools have had to drop.
That’s ‘where it’ll have to start.

“T remember back in 1946 I watched a wrestler in the
national meet at Stillwater, Okla. He didn’t place but he was
good. And I remembered him because he was a Southerner.
He was Ted Brothers of Davidson. I little dreamed of ever
yoing where he’d come from, but I always remembered him
because he was so very outstanding for a Southerner.”’

If Mr. Scott has his way, and he has a mighty powerful
and able will that says he can, in the future they'll be remem-
bering the Southern wrestler because he was a Southerner.

9, ORIENTAL

RESTAURANT

PHONE 2-2338
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1951

ildeat Sports —

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“440 Francis” --- After S.C. Honors At Raleigh

i

eeeenepn pn +

'
Lem ;

Francis Pepper, caught cutting the water in a recent workout, Is representing

Coach Dick Redding’s

Catfish in the Southern Conference swimming meet at N. C. State this week-end. Pepper is entered
in the 220 and 440 yard freestyles, and is rated a top contender in the 440 distance, his specialty. Pep.
per has shaved better than a full half minute off his time since the season began in December. A

junior from Winston-Salem, he has another season in the swim.

Wildcats Close Home Season
Against W. & L. Cagers Tonight

By DICK LILES

The Davidson Wildeats close out their hot and eold basket-
ball season here tonight with the Generals from Washington
and Lee University. Jay Handlan and crew will probably hittite
campus with their heads stuck high in the air after their de-
eisive victory over the local five last weekend, but Boyd Baird

et. al. have other plans for them.

Wednesday night, the Cat hoop-
sters killed off Furman 71-51 in one
of their best showings of the. sea.
son Coach Baird cleaned off his
bench right down to Lt. Love (the
bus driver) after the starters got
things started and Brooks and Hal-
ler had hit for 18 and 17 points
respectively. Coach Baird was well
pleased with the work of -his subs
and their scoring ability and heaped
this praise on them: “The further
down the bench I went, the bet-
ter they looked; what we want
now is W. and L.”

Sure enough the team is ready
for this victory and it seems like
everything is working toward just
that goal. The home-court psycho.
logy still holds well for the Cat
quint and they still show the fire
they possessed in their recent suc-
cessful home stand. The loss of
Dutch Hengeveld through an in-
jury to his knee in the McCrary
game has somewhat dampened the
spirits, but Mac McLean has filled
his shoes well with his great floor
play. Beside that, the team is in
great shape and raring for a win,

The boys are gunning for Hand.
lan and probably will give him the
treatment suffered by Ranzino and
Slaughter. Handlan stands high in
the national scoring parade and
still leads in freg throw accuracy,
although his team did not have such
an impressive season. At any rate
a real game is on tap for this Fri-

day night down at the, gym.

Wrestlers Lose Two

'

Coach Charlie Parker's Wildcat
wrestlers became the victims of
the University of Virginia matters

Wednesday in Charlottesville by a.

score of 22 to 2,

In gaining their sixth victory of
the current season, the Cavaliers
won every match except the 177-
pound class where Bob Gay gained
Davidson's points by drawing with
Jack Gwaltney

In a. simultaneous match, the
Virginia freshman team whipped
the Cat frosh club, 33-2.

Chesterfield
SPORTS QUIZ

1 Name the four long Island
University basketball players
arrested for the alleged “fix”
of LIU basketball games.

The name of Notre Dame’s
head football coach is asnap.
Who is the ntw cage mentor
of the Fighting Irish? .

3 Bill “Blue Ray, dolphin-fast
captain of the Davidson tank.
ers, set a new 50-yard dash
record in the Davidson pool
Tuesday. What was his time?

Answers must be turned in ona
Chesterfield wrapper to Dave Moy-
lan in C-East. Winners will re-
ceive a carton of Chesterfields.

Blue, Ray, Francis

Gunning For Titles
At 8. C. Swim Meet

Undefated Captain Bill (Blue)
Ray led Dayidson’s swimming con-
tingent into the Southern Confer-
ence meet at Raleigh this weekend,
with the odds for the Plorida fish
to emerge among the league's fin-
est.

With a new pool record of 24.3s
registered against Citadel Tuesday,
Ray is one of the favorites in the
§0-yard dash. He also stacks up
well in the 100, where he has been
defeated but once this season.

Ray Cunningham in the 200 yard
breaststroke and Francis Pepper
in the 220, 440 and 1,500 meters are
other leading Cat hopes. Pepper
also hit his best time of the season
Tuesday, covering the 440 in 5:25.

Sprinters Ben Gary and Ed Stu-
art top the Cat frosh entries.

Eight Cindermen
In Indoor Games

Eight of track mentor Pete Whit- |

tle's best Wildcat cindermen will
participate in the annual Southern
Conference Indoor Track Meet to
be staged tomorrow at Chapel Hill.
The events will start at 1:00 p. m.
and are scheduled to end by 10:15
p. m.

The Southern Conference Indoor
Meet, known as the “Classic of the
South” is divided into four parts:
the Southern Conference division,
strictly for conference members;
the non-conference division; the
freshman division; and the Scholas-
‘tic division, which consists of re-
gional stand-outs in high and prep
school competition. ‘

last week Coach Whittle an-
nounced the members of the Da-
vidson team who will participate in

Sigma Chi's Still Hold To Lead As Season Wanes;|

Kappa Sigma Knocks KA’s Out Of Tie For Second

By WALLACE ABBOTT

For the second straight week the
Sigma Chis continued to dominate
the intramural basketball loop, as
they garnered another victory to
remain undefeated. However, a very
strong Kappa Sig team gained two
more victories to gain a tighter hold
on second place and give them an
opportunity to catch the leaders
at any time.

Phi Delts 32 - Pi Kapps 31

In the closest game to be played
in the league this past week the
Phi Delts were able to edge the
Pi Kapps in the closing minutes
of play. Bill Bivins 13 points for
the Phi Delts was just one more
than Arnold Whisnants 12, but in.
the end it proved to be the margin
of victory.

Betas 35 - Phi Gams 25

The Betas finally gained their
third, victory and kept the Phi
Gams from gaining their's as they
beat them out 35-25. Bob Nimocks
proved to be the whole show for

the Betas as he pushed through 14
points. It was a rough and tumble
game which saw the two teams
separated by only one point at the
half.
Pikas 48 . Pi Kapps 40

Farmer and Gaither who scored
15 and 13 points respectively prov-
ed to be the winning margin as
the Pikas edged out the Pi Kapps
in a close, bitterly contested game.
Bob Erwin’s 12 points kept his

{team in the game until the final

quarter, but they didn’t prove
enough to win the game.
Kappa Sigs 38 - KA’s 31

The two second place teams in
the league tangled this past week
and it was the Kappa Sigs who
continued to remain in that place.
Henry Truelove hooked through
16 points to assure the Kappa Sfgs
a victory. Knott, for the KA’s gar-
nered 11 points to pace. his team.

Sigma Chis 44 . SPE’s 33

‘The number one team. in the
league continued to remain in that
position as they gained their eighth

straight victory at the expense of
the SPE’s. Phil Blatt paced his
team to victory with 16 points,
while Jimmy Miller was able to
get 12 for the losers.

Kappa Sigs 54 - SAE's 45

The Kappa Sigs produced two
individual stars as they downed the
SAE’s 54.45. Eric Clark was the
leading point getter as he pushed
through 19 points and Slimy Sloan
was second with 16. George Mc-
Murray's 12 points was high for
the SAE’s.

STANDINGS

Team WwW L
Sigma Chis -....----..--- 8 0
Kappa Sigs .------------- 7 1
Pikas -.---.-------------- 6 2
Phi Delts ...-------.---- "6 2
KA’s wee cw wn ewww on cewesos 5 2
Pi Kapps ---------------- 3. C«*SS
Betas .---.. ~----.------ 3 5
SPE’s --.--.-------------- 2 6
Phi Gams .. .-. .------ 2 7
SAE's -.-. | ~---------- 1 6

0 67

ATO'S .  ..0.00----0------

SPORTS SECTION

AAAMAAAAAA
PAREWELL
TO DUTCH AND TOMMY
TONIGHT

aAbhe

’ TISTVE
PAGE THREE

Wildcat of The Week : Tom Haller

By DICK ROPER

The headline might have read “Hoop Hurts as Hot Haller
Pours ’em In.” had the sports desks of the daily papers been
alliteratively inclined last Tuesday. For on the previous night,
Wildeat Forward Tommy Haller established himself as the top
scoring hoopster of all time at Dayidson. Against the semi-pro
McCrary Eagles. “T" scored a rec.
ord-breaking 31 points, breaking
the old mark of 30 established last
year by teammate Rill Brooks.

In the lingo of thé sports fan,
Tommy has been “due” all season
for a really good night. But up
until his scoring spree against the | °
Eagles, “T" had heen kept preuy
well bottled up by his opponents
who werc. either clued in on his
ability in advance or else learned
the hard way at the beginning of a
game.

who won’t holler for Haller.

As for his performance Monday
night, he will leave an_ indelible
mark on the record hooks here.

It's noteworthy that Haller didn’t
make much of a splash as farcas his
basketball ability was concerned
when he first came to Bavidson
As a freshman, he was something
less than sensational. As a soplio-
more,on Coach Norman Shepherd's
club, Tommy still didn't play even
enough to earn his letter “D". But
Coach Shepherd had noticed in thie
gangling Pulaski, Va. youngster
a spark of real talent. “That Hal.
ler.” he said, “ts one of the most
natural baskethall plavers' | have
ever seen,”

Last vear as a junior, Tonuny
surprised everyone by going like
the proverbial ‘hotise  afire. He
stepped into the ratrks of the regu.
lars with) no diffiertty at all. and
he looked plenty good: for the rise.

When the 50.51) season rolled
around, Coach Boyd Baird saw
right away that Tony was not
Hoing to be kept off the starting
lineup.

This season, as said before, I"
has often been held in check by
zealous opponents doing ‘their best
to pin him to the floor. But Tom.
my has usually been able to get
his. share of the points and look
very good while doing it. even
though at times his brilliance has
been equalized by the uncanny set
shots of Fellow Co.Captain “Dutch”
Hengeveld and the aggressiveness
of fireball Bill Brooks. Tommy runs
hot and cold, but when he's “on”,
there's rarely a fan in the house

TOM HALLER
Highest for Season, career.

tomorrow's mect. This group con-; competes in both the broad and
sists of Bill Pritchett and Bill] high jump; broad-jumper Tom
White, who run both the low and{ Wooten; stot-putter Andy Horne;
high hurdles; Jim Fickeison, a low-| Ken Goodpasture, who will run in
hurdle man; Roger Cornell, who| the 60-yard dash.

_
™~

| a =
GABARDINE makes good news

The old favorite makes news in styling for Spring.
There's less padding and more comfort in the shoul-
ders. There’s less suppression and more flattery in the
waistline. This two-button patch pocket model makes
value news, too, at

$60.00 up
J..O. JONES

Hart Shaffer & Marx Clothes
CHARLOTTE. N. C.

