PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

£ZDITOR IN CHIEF ---...-_-..----------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ...---- ..----------- JOHN LOFTIN

Associate Editors ........ Tom *” n, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor .......--..-~- «--.--+-~--------- Shelley Beard
Managing Editors ._...-.. Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George
McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott

City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White

Assitant Business Manager ..----.--.-... ~---------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager ...-...---.----~~----- Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager ........---...--- ------.------ Ansley Moses
Collections Manager .........---.-~--.-.----.------ Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager ..-.--.....-----------~-----.--- Bill Hart

Faeulty Advisor—Prof. Henry T. Lilly

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Welcome, Dates!

A week ago, we laid our books on the shelves, and
began upon a vicious two weeks of sleepless nights: a ‘week
of premeditation (may not “the best laid schemes 0’...
men Gang aft a-gley’’), and, a week of ‘‘re-meditation.”
A female week-end is such a rarity here that the David-
son gentlemen are apt to be somewhat unequal to the oc-
casion. Nevertheless, let us not be mistaken in our desire
to make this dance week-end for each girl the most enjoy-
able of her life. With this thought, we welcome our dates
to another set of Davidson dances.

Someone has said that ‘‘to love (a woman) is a liberal
education.” The word ‘‘liberal’’ having many definitions
and connotations, it is not for us here to discuss that aspect
of the statement; how liberal the education is debatable
in each instance and somewhat dependent on the whims
of the parties, of course, but, surely, we all agree that love
is part of a liberal education. Our hopes are that more
followers of Plato than Schopenhauer emerge Monday
morning.

Someone else has said that, to love, you must have
somebody to put your arms around. If that is true. look
out, girls! You are that “somebody,’’ and any similarity
between the multi-armed octopus and the hungry David-
son wolf will be only too coincidental! But do not despair:
your hope lies in the fact that in reality the Davidson wolf
is a completely harmless creature. He assumes vicious pro-
portions only in his imagination.

A final word for fellow students. If any of us twentieth-
‘*century-ites” has become so mechanized as to find him-
self floundering for words. Shelly about a hundred-twenty-
five years ago proposed the following approach:

‘See the mountains kiss high heaven,
And the waves clasp one another;
No sister flower could be forgiven
If disdained its brother ;
And the sunlight clasps the earth,
And the moonbeams kiss the sea:
What are all these kissings worth
If thou kiss not me?’’
—T. M.

Conference Compliments

To Dr. Douglas and the planning committee of the
Marriage Conference we extend a hand for initiating and
steering an exceptional conference. Dr. Reuben Hill, the
guest speaker, was competent and well-informed. A pre-
cedent has been set which ‘we hope will never be discarded,
for as the conference proved, many 6f us possess obso-
lete and misinformed attitudes which need reconstructing.
Also validated was the fact that much of marriage de-
mands plain, common, horse-sense.—T.M.

Needless Hazard

It is unfortunate that we have to mention something
that is badly needed in Johnston Gym when $750,000 was
spent in an effort to give Davidson the best physical edu-
eation plant in this section of the country. Be that as it
may, an additional $30 or $35 should have been spent to
provide lighting for both the rear exits leading from the
main floor.

Until very recently, wwe had been unaware that there
was such a need for our fine plant, but after gropping
around in the dark in an effort to descend the winding
stairs after two or three games, it became apparent that
a definite safety hazard exists which should be corrected
immediately.

In mild weather on a moonlight night the danger of
accidents is bad enongh, but on cold, icy nights such as
those we have had in the pa&t few weeks, the possibility
of injury is even more apparent. It is a needless hazard
which a few dollars and an electrician could dispense with
in a very short ‘while. Indeed, the expense will be far less
than a suit against the College in the event a visitor on
the campus were injured trying to make his way down
the unlighted steps.

Even though basketball season is virtually over, there
will be other events in the gym and the need for lighting
for the rear exits will be just as great as it is now. We
strongly recommend that the powers that be take imme-
diate action to remedy this dangerous situation.

THIRST YE
AFTER

UNOWLEDGE f

If she looks young, she is camou-
flaged.

If she looks old, she is young but
dissipated.

If she looks innocent, she is fool-
ing you.

If she looks shocked, she is acting.

H she looks languishing, she is hun-

gry.
If she looks sad, she is angling.
If she looks back, FOLLOW HER.

Confucious say: Modern woman
putting up such a false front, man
never knows what he is up against.

She stepped out of the bathtub
and onto the bathroom scales.

Hubby came in the back door and
walked past the bathroom door.

He observed what she was doing
and inquired, “How many pounds
this morning, honey?”

Without bothering to look, she an-
swered: “Fifty, and be sure you
don’t leave your tongs on the back
porch.”

The scene was a large public
library in one of the reading rooms.
A saintly looking man was reading

THE DAVIDSONIAN

@G

Pe)

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1951

IM TRYING To REVIVE Him In TIME

For MipwinTer’s ,”

Gage yeom College Kage

birth and death statistics. Suddenly
he turned to the man on his right

and said: “Do you know that every .

time IT breathe a man dies?”

“Very interesting,” replied the
stranger, “Why don’t you try chew.
ing gum?”

The doctor came out of the bed.
room to the anxious wife. “Frank.
ly,” he said, “I don’t like the way
your husband looks at all.”

“I don’t either, Doc,” the wife
replied, “but he’s nice to the kids.”

“My heart is in the ocean,” cried
the poet.

“You've gone me one better,” said
the seasick friend taking a firmer
grip on the rail,

A farmer's wife objected to her
husband's parrot. To keep peace
in the family, he decided to get rid
of the feathered chatterbox. The
next time he todk a crate of chick.

ens to town he also loaded the par- ~

rot on the wagon.

About half way there he heard
his chickens squaking and the par-
rot screeching. Finally he looked

back and saw all his chickens walk.
ing in the road behind the wagon
and the parrot marching back and
forth on the tail board, screaming

in frustrated anger: “Any you girls.

changed your minds yet?”

Teacher (warning ter pupils
against catching cold)—I had a lit-
tle brother seven years old, and
one day he took his new sled out
into the snow. He caught pneumon-
ia, and three days later he died.

Silence for ten seconds.

Voice from the rear——Where's
his sled?

Having been married 20 years, a
coupie decided to celebrate by tak.
ing a trip. While talking over their
plans one evening, the husband now
and then glanced into the next
room where a little old lady sat
knitting. “The only thing is,” he
said in a hushed voice, “is that for
once I'd like to be by ourselves.
I'd like to take this trip without
your mother.”

“My mother!” she exclaimed. “I
thought she. was your mother!”

THE POT BOILS

By HENRY HANSEN

The plight of the Red and Black Masquers is
indeed a sad one. On an organizational basis,
they are deserving of adverse comment. There
are certainly ways in which the organization
could be improved in this respect. On a per-
formance basis, they must certainly receive con-
dolences because of the difficulty, first, of find-
ing a play which will meet with the approval of
those who judge such matters; and secondly, of
actually staging and producing a performance
which is artistic out of the shambles which is
generally left by the censors involved.

Several things might be done in regard to
making the organization more effective on an
internal basis. First of all, the Masquers should
take cognizance of the existence of the college
ealendar of events in planning their plays. It is
becoming increasingly difficult to find a place
on this calendar and, in view of this fact, they
should make every effort to have dates for
production agreed upon and approved well in
advance—this actually means that such dates
for the coming year should be decided: upon, ap-
proved, and entered in the calendar by the end
of the present year. This would greatly reduce
conflicts involved in the use of Chambers Audi-
torium. Secondly, as to the selection of plays,
subject of course to the difficulties of finding a
suitable one, they too should be selected well
in advance and if this could be done this year
for next year’s season, much trouble might be
avoided. There would seem to be a great deal
of politics involved in what plays are going to
be produced and this should certainly be greatly
reduced or eliminated if the Masquer group is
to function as a mature organization. The fore-
going are a few suggestions as to how the group
might function more effectively. If it ‘were
necessary to characterize the activities of the
Masquers succinctly, it might best be said that
they are largely a last-minute organization

which leaves too many loose ends untied until .

too late. This can have, and has had, a decided-
ly bad effect on several productions in the past.
These suggestions naturally must be carried out
with due regard to such factors as dates for the
Artist Series (which must be given priority until
a fine arts theatre is constructed), for review
period, and for the calendar of events itself.

Difficulties could be minimized, however, by
early attention to production dates and plays
to be produced.

The MMasquers’ next play was to have been
“Angel Street.” Due to plot-killing censoring
and other difficulties, this play will not be pro-
duced. It seems a pity that a school which calls
itself a liberal arts institution must be subject
to influences so Puritanical that no play of re-
eent years can be produced. It is true that there
are many plays, fine ones, which are relatively
innocuous and which might be produced. It is
also true that there are as many, if not more
plays, also equally fine and artistic which are
now barred from production. Deducing from the
nature of plays that have been rejected in the
past, I can only assume that the reason for this
has been an idea, on the part of those who
judge, that immoral situations pictured in such
plays will inevitably lead to immoral actions on
the parts of those who see such productions. If
this is so, then there is a far vaster segment of
literature, dramatic and otherwise, which would
be barred from use here. Among this large group
would have to fall many of the plays of Shake-
speare, certain portions of the Bible, and must

f the novels studied in our English depart-
ment. If there is any validity in such a view-
point, then it should be hewn to throughout col-
lege activities and not show its results purely
in what amounts to a crippling of Masquers ef-
forts to produce plays. If not, then the Masquers
should be allowed as much freedom in the selec-
tion of plays as is the English department in the
selection of novels.

One more word might be said in regard to
this matter. If such plays can sately be produced
anywhere, then here is the place where they are
most apt to be viewed with the perspective which
will render harmless any immorality contained in
them. An atmosphere such as Davidson’s must
surely provide a view of the situations mirrored
in such plays which will be sane and intelligent.
If this is not the case, then there is little point in
protecting something ‘which is non-existent. The
character of the Davidson student, in other
words, will not be undermined by ‘‘play acting.”
If he has no character, then he is far more apt
to be participating in immoral activities himself
than watchng them over the footlights.

Wax Scratching

By BOB WHELESS

One of the best of the many new
releases is “Would I Love Yau”
with Patti Page holding down the
vocal department. Patti never
sounded better and that plus the
fact that she had a wonderful, tune
to work with combine to give you
a mighty neat platter package.

Les Paul ,the man of many gui-
tars has made another waxing in
which a multiple dud is made of
both the guitar and the fem voice.
The voice is that of his wife, Mary
Ford. Maybe it's just that I don’t
care for Mary’s voice, but I think
that in all of Paul’s past etchings
he has proven much more effective
in his purely instrumental efforts.
Remember “Nola” or more re.
cently “Little Rock Getaway?” If
you are even slightly interested in
popular music chances are that you
do; but how many of the records
he has made with the aid of Mrs.
Paul can you recall?

Both Ella Fitzgerald and the Ink
Spots have cut the new “Little
Small Town Girl.’ In both cases
the vocal work is good but they
didn’t have much of a song with
which to work. The tune isn’t too
bad, but with those words it will
never sce even the bottom rung

on the ladder that reaches to the
top spot on the hit parade.

Ray Anthony has a mighty good
thing in his “Columbia The Gem
Of The Ocean.” It's definitely one
of the most potent swing instru.
mentals since the old Glenn Miller
patriotic numbers. I'm predicting
that this one will be around for
quite a while. .

Another new vocalist has enter.
ed the recording field. First it was
Don Cherry, then Guy Mitchell,
and now its Champ Butler.
Champ’s first release is “Dear,
Dear, Dear” and whilé admittedly
not bad, I don’t see that either the
song or Champ are anything too
outstanding. Maybe he needed a
different type song to really show
his stuff. Anyway you look at it
he’s going to have to do plenty of
improving before he’s a “Champ”
in anything but name.

For all you guys who like to
shag, about the only number issued
recently which bears mentioning is
a rythmic tune called “Teardrops
From My Eyes.” It definitely is
far from tops, but Ruth Brown has
done a nice job of it for the At-
lantic label. Has a pretty good
dance beatt

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) President Truman asked Congress for one million tons of grain as a
gift for India and a million more to be authorized whenever it is needed.

2) The Navy disclosed that the “flying saucers” reported during the
last few years were balloons used for studying cosmic rays.

3) The French government approved reforms for the protectorate of
Tunisia which will give it more self government and thereby relieve

prevalent tension.

4) A new and very heavy drive was begun by Red forces in Korea, end.
ing some of the debate about crossing the thirty-eighth parallel.

S$) The Czechoslovak government decreed that doctors must practice
where regional national committees tell them.

6) Governor Dewey spoke against the “right” of Congress to limit the

sending of troops to Europe.

7) The Labor Party in Britain is badly strained by internal disagree.
ments about such topics as German rearmament.

8) Albanian, Roumanian, and Bulgarian diplomats in Paris were told that
their movements will be restricted as reprisal for similar action in their

countries against French envoys.

Geech’s Goulash

By PAT McGEACHY

All columnists, it seems, are ob-
ligated to publish percentage data
on the accuracy of their predic.
tions. We are batting an ice coll
1.000 at the moment, having made
no predictions. In order to facili.
tate the prediction percentages, per-
haps it would be a good idea to
predict some things.

Exclusive: It will rain like hail
during, around, and immediately
preceeding the Mid-Winter’s fes.
tivities. This does not include areas
off of the Davidson Campus, nor
will it effect those areas not trav.
eled by Davidson students during
the weekend. The sun will come
out just in time for ROTC drill on
Tuesday.

The Koreans will begin to get
irritated if the United Nations
don’t quit tracking destruction up
and down their living room floor.
Of course it is not all our fault,
but I'll bet they are tired of guess-
ing whose side they will be on next
week.

The Davidson Wildcats, for ob.
vious reasons, will be voted into
the first half of the Southern Con.
ferance Basketball Tournament.

The people investigating the
problems of Chapel services will
not do anything about them in par-
ticular. Always sit on the status
quo, even if it is about to float
away.

The Spanish.American War will
not interfere with collegiate foot.
ball in any measurable way.

It will be revealed soon that the
president of the student body has
inadvertantly stated that = the
ROTC department has the best
publicity staff he has ever heard
of, This will not be true, but don’t
let that fool you, as rumors are
much easier to spread than the
truth. Never believe a fact on the

Davidson Campus, as the old ad.
age goes.

The Photo-Club may decide on
hydriotaphia.

Eighty-three percent of the ripe
juicy plums in the senior class will
be plucked, on or. before June 30,
1953. But it is better to be a ripe
juicy plum than a lemon any day.

Fraternities wil be required to
organize Heck Weeks, and will en.
courage fraternal spirit by excavat.
ing the front campus walk. Bodies
of all persons: found buried there
will be identified and sent to their
respective families. Yeh—the frats
will have to start doing something
constructive, there’s altogether too
much fun around here.

The male chorus will not come
back from New York. They will
wise up and hang around for some
real learning. Spo.dee-o-dee!

The philosophy department will
Start giving cuts on February 3,
1988. Rejoicing aesthetes will have
to be curbed. Only by then the
conscience stricken student coun.
cil will have chickened out of en-
forcing any of the rules, and cele-
bration of any kind will be permis.
sible.

Lloyd’s of London will definitely
not insure the writer of this col.
umn. But’ we have to say some-
thing, or resort as others have, to
scaring people away from Hugo's.

Television will never be installed
in Rumple. They are afraid it will
collapse, and don’t want to injure
valuable cathoderay tubes. Students
are expendable.

Education is on the way out.
Who has to know anything to push
buttons.

Nobody but the proof reader will
manage to get this far in this
column.

So there!

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS

DO YOU FAVOR:

a. Compulsory chapel every day?

24 per cent

b. Compulsory chapel three days a week? ~...____ 46 per cent

¢. Non-compulsory chapel for those 23 per cent
who wish to attend every day?

d. No chapel at all?

ween nennn eae ene 7 per cent
