PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THROUGHOUT THE

PUBLISHED WEEKLY

COLLEGE YEAR.
EDITOR IN CHIEF 0000 eee BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER .... .......-- "ALEX GOLEY

Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,
George McMurray

Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,
John Ottley

Photographs—Archie Neat
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson

Associate Editors

weemwe ne eesoores

Managing Editors ----------
Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager ----------~--------- Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager ..-.-------------------------- Jack Hobson
: Bob Poston

Circulation Manager
Collection Manager
Subscriptions Manager

Bill Minter

a en
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

ODK and Pan Hel Join Forces
To Investigate A Greek Week

Last week ODK President Bryan Robinson expressed
the purposes and aims of that organization. stressing that this
year Delta Circle at Davidson meant to be an organization of
activity rather than one of recognition alone.

Simultaneously, the honorary leadership head revealed to
The Davidsonian that group's plan to undertake—in a joint
project with the Pan Hellenic Council—the investigation of the
possibility of bringing Greek Week to the Davidson campus as
a replacement for Hell Week.

As was The Davidsonian’s expressed hope some weeks ago,
the Pan Hel is appointing a committee to study the matter with
ODK's representatives. The Pan Hel would, of course, be the
administering body, with ODK the advisory board behind them.
That 3s, Pan Hel would be an administering body in so far as
the fraternities wanted them to be. One objection to the whole
Greek Week program is that a fraternity tends to lose its in-
dividuality. and certainly we should not want to see Pan Hel
as a central control over the frats. They would act as a liason
between the combined committee and the fraternities.

The hypothetical Greek Week which was presented to the

Greeks last winter was fairly well received in most quarters—
provided they could adjust it to suit the Davidson scene and
their individual cases. Two voted against the program for fear
it would do away with similar systems for initiation weeks cur-
rently in use by chem. Last year’s query served some indication
‘as to how the fraternities here feel about Greek Week, and the
ODK-Pan Hel committee should keep these in mind while draw-
ing up their proposed program for Davidson, That program
will be much better received for this consideration.

Warmed by Critique’s Comments,
Davidson Trims Library's Heat

Chalmers Davidson felt his ears burning from the critique’s
sweet words on Piedmont Partisan last week and ordered the heat
wick trimmed in his book-lined sanctuary.

The Library did, indeed. become a pleasant place of study
this week as the thermostat was dropped.. per The Davidsonian
request, to a point of comfort from its hot house-like high mark.
Lower temperatures seemed to raise heads from drousy semi-
slumber, and student and brouser alike agreed that vital part of
our little world was a better place in which to live.

Writers Voice Own Opinions

Leading candidate in the field to succeed the late Dr. Oren
Moore of Charlotte as Davidson's leading grid supporter is Dr.
James P. Hendrix of Durham, an ardent backer of the Cats who
lets the boys know he's all for them.

Via a good luck letter to Ham Wade last week, Dr. Hendrix
asked that The Davidsonian be thanked for Dick Liles’ Cat Tales
column of two weeks ago in support of the crippled Cats’ per-
formance at Washington and Lee and VMI. He added that
after previous articles by Nat Daniel and Mike Myers, he was
beginning to wonder about the intentions of The Davidsonian.

It was good to have the news passed on to us. Good to
know of Dr. Hendrix's interest in the team, this paper, and
Davidson: and good because it brings to the front ‘‘the intentions
of The Davidsonian.”

____ As was stated in an editorial on general policy when this

administration assumed control of the paper last spring, The
Davidsonian does not, on its editorial pages, attempt to mold
campus thought. It attempts to mirror it. The opinions of
writers on this page, outside the editorial columns themselves,
are not necessarily those of this paper. Readers are free to, and
invited to, take issue with them. If a man, not a staff member,
wishes to use the medium of The Davidsonian for expression,
he may do so.

Above all, however, The Davidsonian doesn't stand behind
every word of those who write under by-line of this page. While
obviously having to serve as censor, we do not want to play the
part of stifler. Our stand is taken through the columns which
you are reading now.

Trouper Pharr In Last Season

Those who know their theatre will tell you that even the
veteran troupers collect abdominal butterflies when the house-
lights dim. If so, Bill Pharr should have run the gamut from
caterpillar to beautiful winged creature. The senior who struck
his fame in “Command Decision’ has been a Masquer standout
since his freshman days. As central figure in tonight's play he
should go a long way toward making *’Ten Little Indians’ a
great success. And as “the grand young man”’ of the Davidson

' stage starts this final season, we'll wager he makes it one of the

| best.
te

THIS BIRCH-BARK TELLUM ABOUT

THE

Ps

AND SPEAKING OF INDIAN TRIBE

>
va

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Olav Sells Norway As NATO
Theme Takes Second Place

With all the skill of a Fuller
Brush veteran, Norwegian assistant
secretary of state Hans Olav stuck
his foot in the door with the North
Atlantic Treaty, and then went on
to sell Norway with the Treaty
thrown in, as he opened the Cele-
brity Series Monday night.

Norway cowld not have chosen
a more able emissary, or as you
will, traveling salesman. Increas-
ing his stock-in-trade immeasurably
through his fluent use of colloquial
American English, Mr. Olav clev-
erly used the widely known North
Atlantic Treaty question as a fun?
nel through which he poured his
sales talk, and a_ shield behind
which he hid on occasion with
diplomatic deftness.

Before scratching one’s head over
any obscure significance in his
harmless banalities on the NATO,
it. is well to note the main theme
of his address: the indomitable
courage of plucky little Norway in
the face of big bad Russia just over
the border. Referring often to their
common border line of 122 miles
with the Soviet Union, Mr. Olav
made it quite clear that Norway was
all for freedom, at which point he
threw light upon the nice difference
concerning Russian demands for
peace as opposed to the West's de-
sire for freedom.

But his speech was not in the
tone of the dirty-faced villagers
who greeted the conquering Allied

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

armies waving American flags and
shouting, “Me no Nazi! Me for
democracy! Me in underground!
Me hope 'Merica win all time! You
got chocolate, Joe?” Norway paid
dearly during the Jast war. Thou-
sands of. her finest men were im-
prisoned in Germany, and her back-
bone, the merchant marine, was re-
duced by fifty-one per cent. But, as
he said, “You cannot crush a na-
tion.”

Concerning Russia, though, Nor*
way was eager to act as a bridge
between the East and the West,
and it was not until after Jan
Masaryk’s suicide in Czechoslova-
kia that Norwegians began to see
the Soviet designs. “The handwrit-
ing was then quite clear,” he said.
“The turning point can be traced
almost by the calendar to May 10,
(1948).” And so after her attempts
for a Scandanavian league had
failed, Norway was ready to join
the North Atlantic Treaty Organ-
ization with eleven other nations
in 1949,

Moreover, Norway saw clearly,
perhaps more clearly than the be-
nign and preoccupied United States,
the problems that lay ahead in
such a union, “one of the greatest
ventures ever undertaken by man.”
There would be jealousy, intrigue,
economic rankling, confusion over
material allocation, and differencet
over new members, Despite these
sore points, he said, the question

(0 LITTLE INTUNS--

DAVIDSONIAN

M,|

x»

So Ss 4

xt i
eee

is not, “Can the Atlantic Pact de-
fend us?” “It is already defending
us... It has defended us since
its inception, Whether it can
finally defend us is unknown.”
Mr. Olav’s visit here was valu-
able not for what he said about
the North Atlantic Treaty. He said
little along that line that could not
have been gained through a couple
of hours’ work in any library, His
visit did, however, bring to David-
son a man who has played a tre-
mendously important, though com-
paratively silent, part in world af-

fairs, and who spoke as the per-

sonal representative of a country
that we would do well to know
more about, since its destiny, as
well as ten; and presently twelve,
other destinies are inseparably
linked to our own:

Since practically any disaster in
Norway will literally affect each of
us personally, cither militarily or
economically, we should have in-
sisted on this sales talk before we
signed that multi-copy agreement
in 1949. It woukl be wise to ‘call
the hands of some of the other
players around the table.

Nevertheless, Mr. Olav sold this
reporter. Not for sentimental rea-
sons, understand, An_ etching-
backed trey won't scratch when
you need a nude-backed ace, But
first, because we have no choice.
And second, as the diplomat him-

(Continued On Page Four)

Business Man Backs Small Christian College
As Best Builder Of Future American Leaders

(Following are excerpts
from a graduation address at
William Jewell College by Hu-
bert Eaton, president of the
American Secutity and Fidelity
Corporation. At a time when
America’s political and eco-
nomic morals seem to have
been thrown to the winds, he
finds hope for the future in the
leaders produced, not by the
great universities, but from the
small Christian college.

The Davidsonian prints much
of his message here—a must
reading for every Davidson
man—Ed.)

Business today has but one prob-
lem. This is personnel. Indeed, this
is the major problem of America.
Tf business and our nation have the
properly trained individuals to
whom authority can be delegated,
all our problems will be satisfac-
torily solved.

Business has a right to expect
that a university-trained man or
woman whom it employs will have
a certain fundamental knowledge.
These young people should have
a good understanding of our ¢co-
nomic system and the forces that
make it work, and appreciation of
our American competitive enter-
prise system and its achievements
as compared with other nations.

We're not interested in “walking
encyclopedias.” We have business

(

libraries to supply that kind, of in-
formation ready at hand. What we
do want and need is men and wo-
men who can think and use their
knowledge constructively. Business
needs, and so does America, em-
ployees who have not only per-
sonal integrity but mental honesty.
They ought to have, above all, an
open mind, one which searches for
facts and, when once these facts
are seen, draws conclusions from
them irrespective of previously held
opinions. Education should at least
train them to think.

We are speaking mainly of the
graduates in general education. The
vocationally or specially trained
graduates immediately to fit into
the pattern of business life. Busi-
ness, however, has learned to look
to the men and women of broader
education for executive -material.
Vocationally tra.:ed employees ad-
vance further than those educated
in liberal arts until about 30 years
of age. After that, it is the man
or woman possessing the broader
education who forges ahead,

Businessmen Dismayed

Recognizing the critical person-
nel problem, business heads and

their personnel departments all over
this land have long been dismayed
at the lack of qualifications of the
majority of young graduates of col-
leges and universities who come

knocking at industry’s door for em-
ployment. These applicants expect
much and have little to offer in
return.

These young people show an ap-
palling lack of even elemental edu-
cation—the “three R's.” readin,’
ritin,’ and ‘rithmetic, and they can-
not spell. There used to be a dic-
tionary in the cffice, now there’s one
on every desk. They have little ac-
quaintanceship with good literature.
They evidenced a deplorable lack
of understanding American history
and economics and therefore can-
not explain Americanism. Good
ideas are worthless to these young
people because, lacking training in
literary and grammatical compo-
sition, they cannot convey them
persuasively to other people in
either the written or spoken word.
Apparently no one taught these
Young men and wrxmen that man-
ners and courtesy are the hand-
maidens of success and are positive-
ly necessarv in their struggle for
a livelihood. The majority of them
appear to give little thought to re-
ligiom, It is true most of them can
properly be called “believers in
God,” but their belief appears to
be merely “passive acceptance of a
fact that presumably established in
our culture.” According to their ap-

plications for employment, few
make any pretense of regularly at-
(Continued On Page Pour)

NAT DANIEL:

O.D.K.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1951

.... Leadership Or

Thought Restriction?

In October 1948, Omicron Delta
Kappa held its first tap day in the
presence of the class of 1952, who
had probably not learned any more
about that organization before they
entered school than any other fresh-
man class before or since. How-
ever, a replica of O.D.K.’s key was
hanging from the rostrum, and an
influential leader in a chosen field
made a short address concerning
leadership, so that when the time
came for the tapping, both the old
and new members of the student
body had a pretty good idea of
what the whole thing was all about.

O.D.K.’s_ responsibility, ideally,
seems to be to recognize leader-
ship and “achievement in scholar-
ship, athletics, social and religious
affairs, publications, and speech,
music, and the dramatic arts.” As
far as the first four are concerned
it is reasonably accurate in deter-
mining leadership, with certain ten-

Former Michigan
Football Guard
Slams The Game

Allen Jackson was a first-string
guard at the University of Michi-
gan. He won his letter on three
championship teams and played in
the Rose Bowl.

His football and college career
ended, Jackson took a long, pene-
trating look backwards, and de-
cided that football these days is
hardly worth the effort. In_ this
month's Atlantic Monthly he states
his case.

Jackson estimates he spent about
1350 hours on the football field in
his four years at Michigan, By con-

trast, he spent about half that much,

time studying for and attending his-
tory classes,

He also finds fault with the
“bigotry” in football: “At Michigan
one of those bigotry-fostering, tra-
dition-conscious pre-game speeches
which were impressive to sopho-
mores but tiresome to seniors was
to this effect:

“The men whom we were about
to play would be battling Michi-
gan; they would as a result be in-
timidated; and we should take ad-
vantage of this fine opportunity to
dominate them.”

But just in’ case Michigan doesn’t
win, there is.a slogan to fit the
occasion: “When Michigan loses,
someonc has to pay.”

“This slogan,” says Jackson, “‘not
only implies that Michigan shouldn’t
have lost, but it also suggests that
the loss was caused by something
wrong somewhere~—perhaps some-
thing shady on the part of the
other team.”

“The point of view suggested by
this slogan becomes positively un-
christian in its imptication that re-
venge will be sought at the expense
of next week's opponent.”

Jackson says that the -idea of
team spirit has been peryerted by
bigtime football. He blames this on
increasing specialization, too much
publicity and fierce competition
for individual berths on the team.

“So,” concludes Jackson, “after
four years of seeing everything

(Continued On Page Four)

dencies, perhaps, to overemphasize
the athletic and religious aspects of
college life, and in the fields of pub-
lications and speech, it makes many
selections which cannot be ques-
tioned in the least. But not since
1948, at least, have leaders in the
fields of music or dramatics been
considered as such as far as O.D.K.
has been concerned.

It would also seem, that though
a member of O.D.K. has certain
responsibilities to his honorary fra-
ternity, that his first responsibility
is to the job for which he was
selected by students and faculty,
and for’ which he achieved the
honor of membership in O.D.K,
He may, by the very nature of his
position be able to mold public

‘opinion, but his first task is to be a

xood editor, or president, athlete or
fraternity man.

Besides, O.D.K., like the David-
son student body is an ‘extremely

DICK ROPER:

homogenious group—it's members
are from the same kind of homes,
and environments, and except in a
few cases where true qualities of
leadership outweigh religious dif-
ferences, they don’t disagree too
vehemently with John Calvin. In
other words public opinion at Da-
vidson is molded too much as it
already stands and the banding to-
gether of a very influential minority
to make us think certain things
could develop into a further restric-
tion of what little freedom of
thought and expression we are per-
mitted on the Davidson campus.
Lastly, 1 would venture to say
that most of O.D.K.’s members pos-
sess the qualities outlined in last
week's Davidsonian to a marked de-
gree, and 1 believe that even if
O.D.K. didn’t exist, that its mem-
bers, along with other students,
would be considered as ‘leaders in
their chosen fields of endeavor.

Western Nations Disarmament
Is Counter Propaganda Measure

The plan for world disarmament
proposed last week by President
Truman on behalf of the Western
Nations was indeed a noble, Chris-
tian gesture. It is too bad that this
plan will not work.

It will not work because it is
no more than an_ idealistic pipe
dream which could not work in any
other than an ideal society and an
ideal world.

To see why the disarmament plan
is so impractical, it is necessary to
examine the two main points as
set forth by President Truman:

(1) A continuous inventory of all
armed forces and armaments would
be undertaken. This inventory
would take place in every country
having substantial military power,
and it would be checked and veri-
fied in each of those countries by
inspectors who are nationals of
other countries, working under the
United Nations. These inspectors
would have authority to find out
what the real facts are.

(2) While this process of in-
ventory and inspection is taking
place, the nations would work out
specified arrangements for the
actual reduction of armed strength.

Obviously, any nation subscrib-
ing to this plan and adhering strict-
ly to, its principles would have to
be perfectly honest with the rest
of the world. It would have to
abandon any plans of aggression
and become a peaceful, cooperative
nation,

This description would not fit
the Soviet Russia of today very
well,

President Truman, however,
thinks that Russia may eventually
see the light. “As (our own armed
forces and those of our allies) in-
crease in size and effectiveness,
they make it plain to an aggressor
that he can have no hope of quick
and easy conquest. As the Kremlin
comes to see that its aggressive
policies cannot pay off, it may
abandon them and join in reason-
able settlements of world prob-
lems.”

The Kremlin evidently doesn’t

see it that way. In Paris, Soviet
Foreign Minister Andrei Vishinsky
dismissed the disarmament plan as
ludicrus, trifling and spurious, “I
could hardly sleep all night last
night because I could not keep
from laughing,” he said. “Even
from this rostrum I can't hold back
my laughter.”

Instead, Mr. Vishinsky proposed
a four-point resolution which he
said would pave the way to peace,
but which, translated from the Com-
munist double-talk, would open up
new areas to Communist aggres-
sion and occup8tion.

But even had Russia accepted the
plan, it is seriously doubtful that
it would have worked. It might
set them back in a few years in
their plans for world domination,
but eventually they would come up
strong and ready to take the world
while the other nations would
be weak and without sufficient pro-
tection.

To hit the issue squarely, it is
hard to believe that a nation with
aggressive designs would be stopped
with any kind of disarmament plan.
It seems more than probable that
any country could hide its arms ,
somewhere, no matter how diligent
persevering and honest any inspecd-
tors might be. And history shogvs
us that there will always be Nia-
poleons and Hitlers and Stalirps,
men whose ultimate aim is to rule.
the world. The facts are hard (0
face, but they are inescapable.

Viewed from a more practical
point, the proposed disarmamen
plan seems little more than a coun,
ter-propaganda measure, Until th#s
proposal was made by the Western
Big Three (The U. S., Britain, and
France), Communist-inspired peace
plans were the only ones being nad?
and these were designed to aid Rus-
sia in her plans of world domin@~
tion. The West had to make sort
sort of gesture to prove to ##e
world that it is just as much in fas
vor of peace and is not the canli-
tion of warmongers that the Com-
munists Would have everyone be-
lieve.

Faculty Members Now Tested By Students
In Turn About Rating Of Performance

Iowa City, Ia—(I.P.)\—Faculty
members are now being “tested”
by students at the State University
of lowa. Such rating plans are not
new in teaching, but this is the
first large-scale use of them on this
campus. The faculty rating plan
being used in the College of Liberal
Arts under the direction of Dean
Dewey B. Stuit calls for the stu-
dents to rate their instructors on
the basis of their teaching methods,
knowledge of subject, classroom
personality, helpfulness, interest in
the subject and testing procedure.

Students are asked to think of
five of their other college teachers
—or high school teachers, in the
case of freshmen—and to rank them
in order from the best to the poor-
est. Then the students compare
their present teachers with this
standard, ranking them from one
to five according to their per-
formance,

By using this comparative scale
it is not necessary to consider a
number one professor as perfect,
but simply as good as the best the
student had had. Similarly, the
number five teacher is not unfit

for teaching, but compares with
the poorest the student has had.
The rating tests are voluntary with
the instructors,

After the students have checked
the test, their responses are recorded
electrically and results are given
to the instructors, No report is
made to his superiors or to the’
university administration, and no
one else sees the tests. The electric
scoring machine also tabulates the
total responses, so the teacher can
compare his ‘ratings with the aver-
ages of all those who were rated.

The faculty rating procedure is
used as one means of improving
the quality of university teaching.
It places the responsibility for im-
provement with the individual in-
structor, on the basis of his stu-
dents’ opinions of him. A primary
benefit of the plan applies to new
teachers who have no idea of how
they are getting along with their
classes, Other teachers will prob-
ably use the tests every few years
to chart their progress.

Studies made in other universi-
ties show that students are quite
serious in analyzing their instruc-

tors and courses, Although the tests
here are not signed by the students,
signed tests have been given at
other universities where surveys

showed that there was no signifi-
cant correlation between a student’s
standing in class and his evalua-
tion of the instructor. This would
indicate that the better students do
not tend to rate their instructors
highly while the poorer students
tate them at a low level.

Robinson's Second Article
On ODK Appears Next Issue

The second of the series “O.D.K.
Speaks” by Bryan Robinson, presi-
dent of the Davidson Delta chapter
of the national honorary leader-
ship fraternity is not appearing
this week.

Robinson, planning to present a’
definite program ODK intends to
follow through with this year,
wished to withhold release until,
after the next meeting of ODK.
“ODK Speaks” will appear, then, in
the November 30 issue of The
Davidsonian,

e
