WAL

Dinner Is Climax
To All Sports Day
Planned For May 7

Wallace Wade, recently in-
stalled first commissioner of
the Southern Conference, will
te the principal epeaker at a
dinner climaxing Davidson's
frat annual All Sports Day
Ilay 7, athletic director Paul
K. Scott announced yesterday.

The All Sports Day will be
an enlargement on the athlet-
ic end of the annual awards day,
held in chapel. As in the past,
many presentations will be
made to athletes during chapel
on the morning of the seventh,
with the banquet and further
awards following that evening
in the college dining hall.

Wade. of late head football
coach at Duke Unversity and
one of the nation’s greatest
grid heads, accepted the invi-
tation to address the sports
assemblage in a letter to Mr.
Scott early this week.

All athletes who completed
the season on any Davidson
team, varsity and freshmen,
will be the guests of the Ath-
letic department at the gala af-
fair. In the past, the football and
cross country teams have held
their banquets together in the
early winter, and the other
sports at their own chosing.
The new idea, Mr. Scott points
cut, enables all the groups to
get together in a first rate pro-
gram that is a fitting climax
to the year.

The program in itself will be
announced at a later date. Mr.
Scott stated that some tickets
would be available to interest-
ed students, the exact number
and price being released closer

to banquet time.

Chesterfie
SPORTS QUIZ

1 Who is the sensational young
rookie rage of the N. Y. Yan-
kee training camp the Bom-
bers fear may be reclassified
and accepted by the army?

Cornelius Wamerdam set the
world’s record in the pole
vault May 23, 1942. What is
the height?

A coaster. Who is manager of
the Washington Senators?

Answers should be turned in on
Chesterfield wrapper to Dave Moy-
lan, C-East. Winners will receive
a carton of Chesterfields.

ACE WADE SPEAKEx FOR SPORTS pete

wildcat Sports | =. |

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION ———S——~—~—”—:~COC*~C:sC“CSsSCS:ST. PAGE THREE

FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1951

CAT TALES

By BILL WHITE

A couple of Sunday evenings ago, the Fat Roommate and
I, nixing a sad offering on the Colgate Comedy Hour, decided
to strengthen faculty ties and satisfy that hunger peculiar to
Sunday evenings with a call on Mr. and Mrs. Ray Brown and
their three (or is it four?) little Browns.

We couldn’t have spent a nicer evening had we been ON
the Colgate Hour. Wiseeracking Ray and beautiful Bracy are
hard to think of as a couple of old married people, and they
accommodatingly never give you a chance to think of them as
such.

The last time we'd socialized with the Browns had been our
freshman year, down in their 2x4 in Cardboard Village. Aside
from a girl here and a boy there, they haven’t changed at all.
Seems like they just got here, both fresh out of college, and now
they’re leaving us. ,

Ray says he loves coaching, but feels he will be happier,
all factors considered, in the business ‘world. As yet, he is un-
committed but has several irons in the fire. ‘‘I resigned the
morning of the Red and Black game.” Ray recalled, “and I
went out a winner. But I darn near jumped off the bench and
tackled A. C. Gregg there in the final minutes when the Blacks
almost scored on that screen play!”

The good-looking former University of Virginia grid stand-
out has been one of the most popular members of the college ad-
ministration, and he’s had a chance to be popular in many a
sport. His first year here Ray was unofficial golf coach. In ad-
dition to his backfield coaching duties, he has since been foot-
ball scout, freshman basketball and track coach, and even
pineh-hitted as freshman baseball coach.

In Gastonia Tuesday night, Ray handled the frosh nine for
Boyd Baird. “Never saw anything like it. They stole everything
but the keys to my car. They tried to steal first, but I protested
and while I was protesting, they stole home!’’

Frosh basketball furnished another good quotable on Ray.
The.Charlotte News’ Bob Quincy asked him how his boys came
ont against Duke’s freshmen. ‘‘It was a battle from the start.’’
Ray asserted, “and then they wore us down in the final 39
minutes!”

The jokes run on the playful pop. He’s a good funster, but
never failed to let his clubs know when the fun stopped and
where the boss began. And though the odds are that the newest
addition to the household (Razorback Ray, no less), is the
coming athlete in the family, the old man can still unthrottle
on a 100 yard dash for sixty or so yards, raise cain ‘with a hand-
ball, play a mean game of halfcourt. and match golf scores with
Marvin Kelly.

Watching little Ray baptised here last Sunday, we couldn’t
help thinking what a swell family the Browns are going to make
in some community. Davidson, at least the student body during
Ray’s stay, will always have an interest in these folks who or-
ganized their outfit right here. We hope they'll decide to settle
somewhere nearby, where Haller can keep his eye on Georgia
and the rest of the fellows can compete for Virginia.

Yes, we're going to miss the Brown family. Guess it’ll be
back to Hugo’s for the F.R. with Bracy’s gingerbread and ice
cream gone. .

PAGE THREE

Duke Nets Here Tomorrow

CINDERS OPEN WITH MERCER

Bears’ Jim Cowan
Brings Strong Crew

Against Old Coach

By CHARLIE HASSELL

The Davidson track team opens
its dual meet track season this Sat-
urday against Mercer University,
with the field events beginning at
2:00 p. m. and the running events
at 2:30,

The Mercer coach, Jim Cowan,
who was an outstanding three let-
ter athlete at Davidson a few years
ago, will bring twenty-five men
with him who should give the Wild-
cat cinder men some stiff compe-
tition. Although Davidson has won
every meet in the series, the Ma-
con, Georgia school always is rep-
resented by a good team.

Roger Cornell, heavily counted
on for points in the broad. jump,
will be greatly missed; Cornell
pulled a leg muscle at the Carolina
relays last weekend, and may ‘be
out for several weeks.

However, to somewhat coun-
terbalance this loss, Jim Fick-
eisen has shown more improve-
ment than any other man this
year. In the time trials Wed-
nesday, Fickeisen placed in the
high jump, the javelin throw,
high hurdles, and the 100 yard
dash; he would have placed in
the low hurdles also, had he
not fallen. He will participate
in all of these events, except
the low hurdles, against Mer-
cer.

Bill McNeely has shown well in
the discus and shot events; and
Bob Henry and Blake Bradley
have been turning in good times in
the 880 run and mile run, respec-
tively. Ken Goodpasture has been

keeping his times down, and hopes
to do even better than the time
that won him second in the Caro-
lina relays in his event, the 100
yard dash.

WHITE

TAYLOR-MADE

Perfection .

imported skins. The frosty, full nap
_... the firm fine texture readily
identifies this shoe as a leader.

Deep red rubber soles give

foot luxury and cool comfort.

.. born of choice

BUCK

Very easy to clean. 13.95.

THE LABEL OF DISTINCTION

a

AFTER THURSDAY TEST

Conference Battle

Cat Nine Braces For Return Visit/May Prove Toughest

From Tar Heels Monday Afternoon

By DICK LILES

After absorbing their first two conference setbacks of the
season last weekend in the hands of Furman and Clemson,
Coach Frank Packard’s Wildeat nine are locking forward to a
return match with North Carolina’s powerful Tar Heel squad
here Monday afternoon. The Cats traveled to Carolina yester-

day for the first meeting of the
: Linksters Match
Wake, N.C. State

Coach Packard will send Dutch
Hengeveld to the mound against
possibly Lefty Schacht, the Da-
By BILL MORRIS
Davidson golfers match strokes
with the ever-rugged linksmen of

vidson (N. C.) boy who slings 'em
Wake Forest College this afternoon

in from the port side for Coach
on the Charlotte. Country Club

Bunn Hearn as one of his top-rate

hurlers. Schacht. is only one of the
course. Tomorrow Coach’ Elgin
White's men travel to Raleigh to

fine hurlers that constitute the
mound staff that Hearn can call
meet the State College team.
Wake Forest has one of the

upon. He also has a “death” out-
strongest teams in the Southern

ficld of three fine hitters, and an

equally fine infield. The team is
Conference, winning the champion-
ship for several years. Dick Tiddy,

well-balanced according to all re-
Wake's best. will be matched with

ports, with no single outstanding
star. “Bunn Hearn always puts out

Monty Hill, Davidson’s number
one man.

a fine team” is the sigh-filled say-
ing of other Southern Conference

In the match with State to-
morrow, the Wildcats are

coaches. Coach Packard joins in
the praise of Hearn, but would like

meeting a stronger team than
they defeated, 18-9, earlier in

to show him, as last year when the
Cats came through with a win over

the Heels, that spirit and “new

blood” can win for you, too.

Coach Packard is indeed pleased the season, for Pete Smith, the
Wolfpack'’s number two man
who was ineligible at the time |
of the first match, will now be
able to play. Jim Baker, State’s

with the spirit and hustle of his
boys. Although he was handed a

number one man, shot a 68 on
the Raleigh course earlier in

rather graduation-deleted squad, he
the week and promises to give

has moulded a fine fielding and hit-

ting team; a real team of team-
Hill tough competition. Coach
White puts great faith in Mac

work and sport. All of the games
so far have only been lost by very

McLean’s handling Smith to-
morrow.

slight margins except one and the
“If the boys show up as well this

decisive win over Boston U. earlier
weekend as they did last when they

this season.

If Hengeveld is unable to take
the hill Monday, on seeing service
yesterday, cither Tom Craven or
Paul Eastman may be called upon.
Both own sore arms and so that
game may also fall to “Ironman”
Dutch Hengeveld. Also a loss for
the team is Auburn Lambeth’s in-
ability to play this week due to a
pulled muscle in his thigh suffered
in the Clemson game. Coach Pack-
ard will use Jack Branch in his
place until Lambeth returns, Bill
Rowland and Jerry Morrow will
round out the outfield. Two new
switches have been made in the
infield with Norm Whiteheart
handling the catching duties and
Harold Smith covering the “hot
corner.”

The team is steadily improving
and if Bill Roland keeps pounding
out a few hits and the infield is

(Continued On Page Four)

(Continued On Page Four)

Coach Boyd Baird's freshman
baseballers made their first home
showing here this afternoon when
they tangled with Tech High of
Charlotte.

Yesterday's test with Belmont
Abbey, coupled with the debut wal-
loping at the/ hands of Gastonia
Tuesday night should have the Kit-
tens sufficiently seasoned for the
Wolfpack this afternoon. Raird

|

Foe For Racketeers
By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Coach Derrick Barton’s netters
play Duke University this Satur- ’
day in what has all the aspects of-
being Davidson's hardest match
of the year, Certainly the Blue
Devils are a powerhouse club, with
five of last year's six regulars back
and a brilliant sophomore to re-
place the one last man.

Reports have it that Duke has
probably the best team in the ‘con-
ference, due to their exceptional
experierice and depth. The Blue
Devils only lost Lon Masters, their
number one man of a season ago,
and their number two, three, four,
five, and six men are back and
playing those same positions. Mas-
ters’ number one position has been
filled by basketballer Keston Deim-
ling, a sophomore who has proved
himself quite capable on both the
basketball and tennis court. So ita
is easy-to see why the Blue Dev-
ils have been ‘picked the conference
favorite on the basis of their ex-
perience alonc,

For the Wildcats, this can mean
certainly the hardest match of the '
season, Allen Strand, the Cat cap-
tain, will play the number one po-
sition followed by Dewey Kees-
ler, Pete Kennedy, Biil Childs, Joe
Dudley, and Tom Staley, Strand
has been playing an exceptionally
good brand of tennis lately, and
he and Dewey Keesler. have com-
bined to give the Wildcats a first
rate doubles team. Veterans Pete
Kennedy and Bill Childs compose
the number two doubles ‘téam, and
sophomore Joé Dudley will team
with either John Crosland, Ed Cole-
man, or Bill Bivens for. the number
three doubles team. After a fairly
successful season start, which had

beat Furman and South Carolina] some tough matches with strong

(Continued On Page Four)

Freshman Baseballers Meet Tech
High Today In First Home Game

was expected to name Johnny
Smith or Paul Davis to open on the
hill against the Queen City crew.
In Gastonia, the Kittens were
the victims of a one-hitter by Rog-
er Kendrick and Larry Hoffman,
that a single by Tim Gilley. Their
lone run came in the ninth inning
against the powerful Green Wave,
schoolboy champs in North Caro-
lina for the past ‘several seasons.

Wildcat of Week: Ken Goodpasture

When Ken Goodpasture trotted onto Fetzer
Field at Chapel Hill last Saturday, he had two
things in the back of his mind. One was re-
demption for jumping the gun twice to dis-
qualify in the Indoor Games. The, other was to
silence the ridicule of Horne, Ine., which found
him inevitably introduced as ‘‘Goodpasture,
‘9.9, Davidson.”

The chunky speedster jumped the first time
in the finals of the 100 yard dash at the Caro-
lina Relays, and Pete Whittle turned a lovely
lavender. ‘‘Won’t that be something if he pulls
this trick again?!” Whittle moaned. But Good-
pasture held till the gun the next time and {a
barreled past all competition but UNC’s stand-
out sprinter Dave Willis. Ken picked up his
medal and shut up his ridiculers.

Taking second to a 10-1 was actually no
great feat for Goodpasture. He hasn’t been
above 10.2 (conceding he ran that time at the
Carolina Relays) this year. He turned in a 10
flat in time trials before the spring holidays,
and Wednesday clicked the century in 10.1.
He simply had never had big company in which
to shake his times around. Last season, Kenjson!’’

was clocked at 9.9 to win the Wake Forest
meet, and 10 on another oecasion.

Strangely. however, last spring Goodpasture
failed to place at Washington and Lee when
10.3 was the winning time, and once again at
South Carolina he tqok second to a 10.4. Ken’s
explanation, “1 didn't work hard enough to
be consistent last vear.
ready worked harder this year than T worked
all last spring combined.”

The story of Ken's discovery is a well
known one arotind the campus. He dropped
by the track one winter afternoon two years

ago when a pair of hurdlers were working
for the indoor meet, beat them on invited starts,
and was soon signed to Whittle’s dotted line.

The Franklin, Tenn., senior will undoubted-
ly have a banner year on the sprints. A hard-
worker oi the books, the pre-law major is
president of SAE, a member of the student
council, and ODK. Still ambitious. Ken wants
very much to better
will,’ Whittle adds, ‘“Phen Horne will change
that chant to ‘Goodpasture, :9.8 or :9.7, David-

T feel that U have al-

:9.9 this vear. “I hope he
