PAGE TWO

THE. DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEBELY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR
nS
EDITOR IN CHIEF ............c:.: sees BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ....+........-:.:. ALEX GOLEY ©
rte nO RIESE ESS
Associate Editors -.-...--~----- Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,

George McMurray
Managing Editors --..-.-.-- Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,

Johu Ottley

Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson

Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy

Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Asistant Business Manager ---------------------- Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager -.-.. -..--------------------- Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager ----.------------------------+- Bob Poston
Collection Manager ~--------...-------------------- Bilt Minter

Subscriptions Manager

pn RENEE eS
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Service Stamps David Ovens

Worthy of Title “Mr, South”

From Atlanta this week cdme news that Charlotte's David
Ovens, as one of the 117 members of the Living Hall of Fame in
the Southland, was in the running for the title of “Mr. South”
for 1951.

As a benefactor of Mr. Ovens’ generous philanthropy. Da-
vidson College knows that few men could be more deserving of
the title. Certainly few men have done more for the business.
cultural, educational, and religious life of their community than
has Mr. Ovens, and there exist no more important realms than
these.

In his bountiful gift to Davidson College and its sister
institution Queens, Mr. Ovens has done much to further the
hope of a Christian people at a time when the darkness of Com-
munism, our own business greed. intolerance. and immorality
gather to becloud the true Light. In an address delivered last
fall at the Achievement Day Dinner of William Jewell College,
Hubert Eaton, president of American Security and Fidelity Cor-
poration, brought out: “I would that all people, particularly
businessmen, would realize that to be able to support our Chris-
tian colleges is a great privilege. In the best sense such support
is indeed a contribution to the national defense, for the strength
of America is finally decided by its faith in the religious ideas
which underlie democracy. Only by strengthening the Christian
colleges can America have the leaders it needs to survive. To
that end, a man who is the type leader America needs, has given.

The joy which Mr. Ovens has received from watching the
work of that which became his by dint of hard work and the
grace of God is undoubtedly satisfaction enough to him. But
for the South, a man of David Ovens’ character wearing the
label of its outstanding citizen would indeed be a tribute to
Dixie.

Has Y Forgotten Eifectiveness
Of “Faith On Campus” Booklet?

One of the deepest reaching arms of the YMCA. so far as
the student body is concerned, was the publication and distribu-
tion last spring of the day-by-day devotional booklet. ‘Faith on
the Campus.” ‘

The writings of beliefs, ideas, and interpretations by mem-
bers of the student body carried to the reader a message that
meant far more than would a similar devotional from someone
removed from the life of this campus. ‘Faith on the Campus’
dealt with problems very near to. the Davidson student, because
it was written by Davidsonians. It brought about an inter-
change of thought; students knew how others on the campus
looked on different teachings of the Bible. Importantly, it gave
the student a chance for his religious expression, one of the
basic functions of the Young Men's Christian Association.

Such a brief debut by ‘‘Faith on the Campus” had the ef-
fect of a fleeting breeze on a sticky, hot day—refreshing, but
gone too quick. Couldn't the Y begin work now on a November
or December publication so that this ‘‘breath of air’ might
prove life-giving throughout the remainder of the school year?

Only Minor Changes Needed
For Bulletin Board Success

For some three weeks now, as a part of efforts to improve
chapel with the elimination of irrelevant announcements, the
bulletin board at the north end of Chambers has served as the
communication center for the campus.

As was expected, there were kinks at first. The major. dif-
ficulty was in getting the students to check by the board to see
if there were announcements there pertaining to them. When
the mountain quit coming to Mohammed, however, Mohammed
saw he must go to the mountain, and the majority of the stu-
dent populace has come to check the board regularly. Col.
Ballard was the first to prove that this would work in the
ROTC department.

Also, the board is too small. Often a D club meeting to-
morrow night is obscured by a tremendous poster asking if
there's anyone going to Atlanta, December 13. And no lighting
renders the board useless at night. These two handicaps are,
however, soon to be done away with by a large. lighted board
to be erected in the near future. The Davidsonian happily notes
the progress being made, and would make but one further sug-
gestion. Were the board partitioned off for organizations as is
the old board on second floor Chambers, one would know in a
minute where to look for his announcement. Also, if each an-
nouncement were standard in form and size, it would make for a
fairer presentation of the announcements, such as was given

them when each was read in chapel.

FAMOUS LAST WOR
“pont Cur IT SHORT — JUST TAKE

A LITTLE OFF

THE DAVIDSONIAN

0S °

THE Top.”

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Hines, Fleas Scratch Off;
Peroxide Pip Pulls Plaudits

Unlike his homonymous counter-
part in the condiment line, Metro-
politan singer Jerome Hines had
not fifty-seven, but seven varieties
to offer the Davidson audience Fri-
day night.

However, it was not just in this
respect that Mr. Hines and Mr.
Heinz parted. For, by all existing
pure food and drug laws, the Cat-
sup Connoisseur: is required to list
the ingredients on his keystone-
shaped label and to adhere reason-
ably close to his estimate when he
fills his pickle jars. After reading
over Mr. Hines rectangular-shaped
label and listening to what Mr.
Hines had to offer, the keen ob-
server could find a discrepancy or
two.

And I use the term keen ob-
server to signify only those who
hadn’t dates. For it was clear that
the hit of the evening by far were
the radiant and ruffled lassies
without whom both the. concert
and the weekend would have been,
to turn a phrase, a disappoint-
ment. It is doubtful that Mr. Hines,
fresh from a community concert
appearance in Asheville, has en-

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

joyed either so well-dressed or so
responsive an audience during his
tour. The reasons for the sartorial
splendor out front were obvious:
cold and convention both ruled out
T-shirts and made shoes obliga-
tory.

By the very nature of the oc-
casion, the girls, at least, were
overly responsible. We hope that
Mr. Hines, though he gave an en-
tirely creditable performance, will
not assume the laughter that
greeted his pleasantries to have
been meant for him. Far from it;
the girls who were at Davidson
for the first time were adjuting
their laughter for ripple modula-
tion in order to be the most en-
tertaining partner possible for the
next two days. And of course the
damsels who were old hands at
this dance weekend business were
simply proving to their squires that
they hadn’t become moribund over
the summer.

For one with two fleas on his
person, Mr, Hines hardly seratched
at all. A striking figure, the bass
gave one the impression that
despite thé Lanzas, the Pinzas and

THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX:

Obendorfer Says Christianity

Major Influence In Davidson Education

Chicago, Sept. 18, 1951.
My Dear Dr. Cunningham:

In the occasion of a new acad-
emic year I want to express to you
once more, before leaving this
country, my appreciation for the
fine hospitality, genuine friendliness
and the high regard for scholastic
endeavour which I found at David-
son. I was deeply impressed by
the fine spirit of active and dy-
namic Christianity which I found
on the Davidson campus.

I deem this country fortunate in
having, Christian schools like Da-
vidson. I wish there were similar
institutions in my couptry which
could exert a positive influence in

creating a new generation of lead-
ers with constructive attitudes and
Christian ideals.

It is hard to exptess in words
the many incentives for my life
work which I received at David-
son.

T especially esteem the many
sincere and enriching bonds o
friendship which I established
there. The friendly reception ex-
tended to me I ascribe in large part
to the fine spirit resting on Chris-
tian principles which prevails
among the students and the faculty.
A spirit which has overcome even

their Hollywood cadenzas, there
are some who will keep opera as
it was written going, out of nothing
more than a stubborn preference
for quality, prestige and art. Worth
mentioning, too, was his stage
presence, perhaps overworked, but
nevertheless disarming..

The accompanist worked with the
performer well, adjusting himself to

tthe acoustical conditions quickly

and extending his solo period no
longer than was appropriate, If
any reader should happen to meet
him on the street, we would ad-
vise not calling him Alexander or
Alexay, .as stated on the program,
since he is neither, having been
introduced as someone else whose
name we don't know. Feel free
to compliment him though, since
he did as well as any man who
wasn't Alexander Alexay could
have done.
. ee 8
There was one other artist on
the campus over the weekend,
though unfortunately the dean's of-
fice has asked us not to release her
name. She brought with her a
(Continued on Page Four) |

TTD

Is The

shall be able to convey the sig-
nificance of this experience to my
people. ;

My hearty thanks to you and
the college for the unforgettable
year at Davidson.

With best wishes that God may
bless you in your work as the
leader of a Christian school.

I remain,

Sincerely yours,
DIETER OBENDORFER.

(Ed. Note:- Obendorfer was a
transfer student attending David-
son tast year. Dr. Cunningham
passes his letter on to The Da-

the spite and the bitterness of a|vidsonian for the student body in-
recent war. I certainty hope I | terest.)

POLL CAT

Would you rather have your Thanksgiving holiday on Thurs-
day, November 22, or Saturday, November 24?

This question was asked of 167 students in Watts, Georgia,
West and East dormitories. The results: 81.44 per cent said Satur-
day, 14.37 per cent Thursday, and 4.19 per cent had no choice,

COMMENTS:

GARY BARTON—I want Saturday because I'd like to see

the Davidson-Tech game.

JIM SPEED—I'd rather have Thursday because you could take
off Wednesday after class, get double cuts Friday and regular cuts
Saturday rather than double cuts both Briday and Sunday vespers.

LEIGHTON McCUTCHEN—It would allow me to see my
folks before the Christmas holidays by meeting them in Atlanta

at the game.

TOM WILKINS—Thanksgiving is not a holiday but a day of
giving thanks and should be reserved for that instead of being

arbitrarily set on just any day.

JOHN PITE—If the holiday is changed to Saturday, more stu-
dents would have a chance to go home and be with their families.

BULL PREEMAN—The holiday we are observing is Thanks-
giving, 30 why not observe it on Thanksgiving Day.

NAT DANIEL:

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1951

Fifty Futile Football Years
Or-What Price Moral Victory?

Since the Alma Mater’s latest
defeats on the gridiron by Citadel
and P. C., a semi-permanent sort
of inferiority complex seems to
have settled once again over the
student body, and in this time of
despaif it behooves us to remind
ourselves that the football problem
at Davidson is not new at all, it
is not simple, nor is its solution
easily available.

In view of the fact that I have
not participated as a member of
the varsity squad, and in the par-
ticular instance of last Saturday,
was not present at the P. C. game,
let me say before I am rashly or
unfairly criticized for the opinions
and ideas set forth in this article
that they are not new, nor neces-
sarily correct. All I’m attempting
here is to show that for the past
fifty years the plucky little Wild-
cats have been getting beaten and
for the same reason that they’re
being beaten now—they just play
out of their class.

When I noticed the student body
going back to sleep football-wise
this week, after a brief first , half
awakening, I decided to see how
long the problem had been with
us, so 1 looked up and compiled
some facts and figures concerning
Davidson’s intercollegiate football!
records of the past 50 years.

DICK ROPER:

Since 1900 Davidson has played
393 intercollegiate football games.
Of these, she has won 178, lost
182, and tied 33 of them. The
greater percentage of these losses
has occurred since 1937, but there
have been 16 seasons in which Da-
vidson has won more ball games
than it lost or tied, and of these
only four may be considered good
—1904, with a 6-1-1 record, 1926,
the golden haloed year, with a
6-2-1, 1933, with a 6-2-1, and 1947,
with a 6-3-1, You will note that
in 1947, when Uncle Sam was pay-
ing the bills for most of the stu-
dents, we had a football team be-
cause we had the material, and most
important of all, the depth, of any
of our competition.. As for losses,
well, the worst licking N.C. State
gave us (and here we seem to for-
get that State has done that pretty
often) was 1948's 40-0 fiasco, but
in 1921-'22, Georgia Tech, fore-
telling of better things to come,
beat us 67-0, and 87-0, respective-
ly. Then, we must remember, that
even 1926's State Champions got
beaten by Hampden-Sydney and
VMI, -so they, too, were not in-
fallible.

And so, Davidson has always had
a football problem. It has been
increased, to be sure, by modern
trends in subsidization, by. the

growth of Davidson's competition
far out-proportioning that of her
own student body, and by the
proper evaluation in theory at
least) ‘of her executive ‘committee
in putting brains before brawn, and
emphasizing the fact that a liberal
education is more important for the
world of tomorrow than is a win-
ning football team for Davidson
today.

In due deference and respect to
Coach: Little and the football team,
let me say that the 1951 wildcats
have a spark of something I hadn't
noticed before in four years, but
despite her seconds and minutes of
glory, from the first to last whistle,
Davidson has always been a
medium-sized college with medium-
sized faculties, paying medium-
sized coach's salaries, but due to
pressure from the defeat-forgetting
alumni and many other influences,
still, sticking her neck into big-
time football, and more often than
not getting her head chopped off—
and so it has been, with few excep-
tions, since 1900. The question is
then, can Davidson play big-time
football? If the answer is yes, then
it’s high time to get started, if it
is no, then take a look at the in-
juced list, and let's stop this use-

less maiming.

KOREA GETTING US NOWHERE FAST;
POLICY DECISION URGENTLY NEEDED

On a blood-stained little penin-
sula across the Pacific Ocean we
are fighting a war which is getting
us nowhere very rapidly. In that
abominable projection of Asia
known as Korea, nearly 15,000
Americans have died, 60,000 have
been maimed and wounded, thou-

sands more are reported missing |,

in action—and what for?

To avoid fighting a war on our
own home grounds? That's what
the military men and the com-
mander-in-chief of American armed
forces say. We aver that we'll do
anything to keep the war off
American soil. Sounds very safe
and cozy for those on the home
front, for fighting men who wish
to see their families protected
from the horrors of war. But at
the rate we're going, it hardly
seems that it'll work out that way.

We've been fighting a war of
attrition for the past several
months now. Since the Chinese
communists entered the war almost
a year ago, we have had little
hope other than to kill enough of
the enemy so that he'll want to
stop fighting. But has it worked
out that way? Not to date. When
the commies get in a bad way, they
stall us off at peace conferences
and dredge up a few hundred thou-
sand more men from their seem-
ingly bottomless manpower pool,
and then start things popping
again.

Newspaper correspondent Mar-
guerite Higgins, in a recent inter-
view with Chiang Kai-shek, quoted

the Chinese Nationalist Commander
as saying the Communists have and
are bringing up at the present
many thousands of fresh troops to
throw into the Korean fray.

But the fact that makes the
whole situation so hopeless, al-
most pathetically tidiculous, is that
while we ‘trade the life of one
American or other United Nations
soldier for as many as ten of Mao
Tse-Tung’s Reds, the men in the
Kremlin delightedly watch their
cause being advanced without the
expenditure of a single Russian sol-
dier’s life.

Recent announcements of power-
ful new atomic weapons have lent
hope to some that the Korean war
might be brought to a swift ending.
Unfortunately, these weapons are
not nearly perfected and cannot
possibly do what has been claimed
for them. Hanson W. Baldwin, a
military analyst wich a reputation
for knowing whereof he speaks,
said in last Sunday's New York
Times Magazine:

“There is no ‘absolute weapon’;
wars are becoming more complex,
not less so; weapons developments
and security systems are more
costly—not less so... There are
no miracles on the battlefield and
wars today and tomorrow will not
be won in a bloodless blitz...”

If peace should come tomorrow
in Korea, the thousands of cas-
valties suffered in that theater may
not seem so large in view of the
fact that Communist aggression has
been repulsed. But if it drags on

and on for months, accomplishing
nothing while more thousands are
killed, we and our U.N. allies will
be bled so white that all Stalin
will have to do will be to unleash
his hundreds of divisions and it
will sure enough be all we can do
to keep the war off our own soil.

For every gold star mother there
is an added drop of bitterness shed
into the turmoil of emotions which
is America today. The military ex-
perts will agree that more than one
battle has been won on the home
front, and should the long-feared
“big war” follow on the heels of
several minor ones like Korea, the
country will hardly be in any
frame of mind or spirit to make
another supreme effort as it did in
World War JIT.

Though it may sound so, this is
not an entreaty to revert to isola-
tionism: The quandry, is of course,
whether we should try to stem ag-
gression at its inception, or with-
draw to our own borders. Of course
it is far better to fight the war in
other lands, but it also seems like
we are trying to do too much in

our traipsing arouna the whole
world fighting Stalin's henchmen
wherever they may choose.

Maybe somebody will think of
an answer. Meanwhile, men are
fighting and dying with no imme-
diate objective in sight. If ever a
policy decision was urgently
needed, it is now. We can’t fight
forever in Korea,

YMCA Provides Teachers For
Three Local Sunday Schools

Serving three outside congrega-
tions with a staff of fifty boys, the
YMCA Sunday School Extension
Program is again giving teacher aid
to a large segment of people out-
side the Davidson community.
Bethe? Church near Cornelius, Cor-

nelius, and the Sanatorium are the
churches served.

Besides furnishing these localities
with scarce teachers, the YMCA
program provides experience for
any number of interested boys.
This year the requests to teach

Baseball Leads Professional Sports
For Honesty In Recent Gallup Poll

By SHELLY BEARD

How honest or “on the level”
are such professional sports as
baseball, wrestling, horse racing,
and boxing?

Big league baseball is given the
cleanest bill of health of all by
the general public. But only one
person in every 13 gives profes-
sional wrestling a clean bill of
health. Horse racing and profes-
sional boxing fare only slightly bet-
ter,

These attitudes were revealed in
a recent Gallup Poll. Each person
was asked to give his opinion
about the degree of honesty in
four leading types of sporting

events. The object of the survey
was to find out what sort of im-
pressions prevail among the general
public, regardless of whether such
impressions are correct and justi-
fied or not.

Here are the proportions who

games were fixed.
Those questioned were also asked

which sports they followed, and it
was found that the fans are more

inclined than the general public
to think the contests are not sub-

give each sport an entirely clean ;Ject to “fixes.”

bill of health;

Wrestling—8 in every 100.
Horse racing—13 in every 100.
Boxing—24 in every 100.
Baseball 63 in every 100.

Almost 75 per cent of those in-
terviewed said some or all of
wrestling was fixed, while only 22
per cent believed any Baseball

Recent revelations of bribery
and “fixing” in both college and
professional sports, have led to a
demand that Congress conduct a
sweeping probe of all big-time
sports. A House committee is now
considering such a move, A nation-
al commission to rule on all sports
has likewise been suggested.

reached a new high of fifty.

The largest number of these boys
go to the Sanatorium where they
are divided among the wards and
the individual rooms. The visitors
to the Sanatorium do not all teach
a lesson as some of the patients
merely want to see someone from
outside of the hospital. Some of
the patients are not interested and
they are not visited. The boys that
have gone to the Sanatorium say
that the most interested group is
the Negro ward. Here, unlike the
other wards, there are enough peo-
ple to sing.

Four boys will be sent to Bethel.
As yet only Allen Garrison and
Bob Mitchell have taught there.

At Cornelius, there are two adult
classes taught by Jim Faries and
Ed Blanton.

Special services are held at
Christmas and Easter with a pro
fessor giving a short sermon. This
is made possible in the Sanatorium
by the use of the public address
system,

Bill Lee, director of the program
says that more boys than ever have
volunteered to teach and he be-
lieves that the Y can do more this

year than ever before.
