The good K-Sigs,
bless ’em have reason
to worry these days.
here’s a bunch here
on the campus that
doesn’t give a darned
for their long and il-
=, lustrious interfraterni-

f ty athletic record or
; their four year chain of
interfrat cup wins.
This bunch calls itself
Sigma Chi fraternity,
and it’ll have you know
it's out for the erown
this year.

Time was when Sig-
ma Chi didn’t worry
the Greek athletic pow-

ers anymore than rain worries an ROTC keydet. In fact, time
was four years ago when the other boys on the campus didn’t
even schedule Sigma Chi. Why? They weren’t even on the cam-
pus.

In the amazingly short space of time of four years the Sig-
ma Chi’s have rocketed to a place of recognition in the David-
son interfraternity picture, blossoming into full bloom this ‘win-
ter after taking it as the doormat for the first couple of sea-
sons. From a team which was regarded as a breather by most
of the clubs in the first year of its existence, the Sigma Chi’s
have zoomed out to set the pace in two sports this winter and
place well in all others. All of which means look out perrenial
powers when point-figurin’ time gets here!

The Sigma Chi double sweep last week of the basketball
and swimming titles really drove the emphasis home. It has
been quite a few years since anyone managed to scrap their
way through the wild and wooly action. (second only to frat
football in casualty production) which we tab basketball, with-
out a defeat. The calm Chi's did with a 10-0 mark. In the swim-
ming, their Gray Hampton set. two new records, and—possibly

indicative enough—they edged KS by two points for the champ-
_ionship.

Of course, we wouldn’t lay our neck on the block and even
timidly suggest a guestimate of the outcome this year. But this
Sigma Chi outfit, asking no quarter and giving none, is going
to be reckoned with. In addition to their swimming and basket-
ball cups, they placed well up in the competition in football
(tie for third with Phi Delts and SAE) and handball (fourth).
The defendng Sigmas (given name, Kappa) have finished sec-
ond in every sport to date tennis figures unavailable as yet and
thus excluded), and the Pi Kapps and Betas wear the handball
and football crowns, respectively. Softball, soccer, horseshoes
and the track meet remain. At the rate they’re going, it is going
to be hard to hold Sigma Chi down in all or any of these sports.
The ‘‘old boys” so used to battIng it out among themselves
every year had better start looking around and counting their
varsity competition points. This thing could be real interesting
in another month.

The Wildcat Club visits to see Major Crowell Little’s forces
AWOL tomorrow afternoon. For their first time in three years
they'll be watching a Davidson Attack Without Lambeth.

It is nigh onto impossible to begin talk about next year’s
club without mention of Lambeth. That’s all we’ve had to talk
about for the past three falls, and he has been the mainspring in
our attack. The shift, then, should come from the air to the
ground next fall, and tomorrow was to have furnished a look-
see at what calibre mode! T Jack Ruth will be driving. But the
picture will necessarily be incomplete because, quote, These are
uncertain days, end of quote.

Lines left over from a week-old paper: Too much copy nev-
er yet has been fitted into too little space, so Mr. Broyles junked
the last paragraph of our column on Mr. Packard. As we were
concluding, if he does anything at all with our males this spring,
Packard is one postman we'd do well to ring for twice . . . Bud-
dy Chandler, ex-Wildcat guard of some note now coaching in
Norfolk, has been purchased by the Washington Redskins... .
There’s a possibility of more wrestling, yet. Mr. Scott was in
contact this week with a touring team of Japanese college
wrestlers, and has hopes of pitting them with the Carolinas
A.A.U. champions the first of April . .. Final figures show our
basketballers lost an even half dozen games by four points or
less—three by three points, two by four, and one by two... You
never knew til now: Prack coach Heath Whittle, among a mul-
titude of other hurdling honors, tied the existing world’s record
on the 70 yard indoor low hurdles at the West Virginia Indoor
Meet his junior year at Davidson . . . So Sir Derrick is filling in
for Gorgeous Gussie tonight. No lace panties; just an English-
man’s Broad A.

By BILL WHITE

CLOTHES

PAGE FOUR FOUR

RED ANE BLACK GAN.E TOMORROW
Wildcat Nine Set For Springfield

Overcoming Weather, Inexperience
Big Problems For Packard Outfit

By CHARLIE HAWKINS
The Davidson baseball team closes its pre-season practice
this week in preparation for the first game with Springfield
here Monday afternoon. The game will be played on the new
diamond on the freshman field. Coach Frank Packard re-
cently cut the team to twenty-one players in an attempt to
round his probable starters into shape faster.

Coach Packard kept five infield-
Kitten Baseballers

ers, five outfielders, two catchers,
and nine pitchers. In the infield,
Arnold Whisnant and Chuck El.
liott are sure starters at first base

The Best Dressed Men At Davidson Wear

Jack Wood, Lid.

and shortstop, while the second
and third base positions are still
being fought out by Johnny Gui-
ton, Jimmy Miller, and Jim Mc-
Farland. In the outfield, veteran
Auburn Lambeth leads the way,
with the only other sure starter
Jack Branch, The third spot in the
gardens is still open, with Grover
Martin Dick Blanks, Jerry Mor-
row, and Bill Rowland hustling for
it. The real depth of the squad
lies with pitchers, who number
nine in all. Leading these hurlers
are letterman Dutch Hengeveld,
Harold Smith, and Tom Craven.
They are supported by Jim Smith,
Paul Eastman, Yancy Robertson,
Sid Whiteheart, Tommy Ward, and
Vic Taylor. The catching position
is well fortified with. Lee Talbirt
and Bert Downs back of the plate.

The biggest problem the Cats
face now is one of getting into
shape and combatting the wintry
weather. A few sore arms and mus-
cles can well be expected in the first
few games because of the short
time the Cats have had to condition
themselves. The next biggest prob-
lem the Cats face is the lack of
returning lettermen, leaving untried
sophomores and newcomers a big
job to do. If the new players can
make the grade in varsity com.
petition, the season can very well
be a success. So on the eve of
the first game, the Wildcats face
two obstacles, but if ‘they can be
overcome in the early weeks of
he season, the Cats could very
well come through in grand style
with a good season.

Sports Schedule

March 19-24

‘Monday: Basebal!l—Springfield—
Here; Golf: UNC—Here; Track:
Interfrat Meet.

Tuesday: Baseball: Springfield—
Here; Tennis: Springfield—Here;
Track: Interfraternity Meet.

Wednesday: Track: Intra Squad
Meet; Baseball: Boston U.—Here.

Friday: Golf: Chas. Nvl. Base—
There; Tennis: U. Tampa—There.

Saturday: Tennis; Fla.
There.

Sou.—|-

Card Nine To Date

Old Mother Nature seemed to
have crossed her wires this week,
and. due to the terrible weather,
the Freshinan baseball team had to
confine.,their workouts to Johnston
Gym, Practice sessions were limit-'
ed to throwing: Next week Coach
Baird hopes to be able to take
his squad outside for batting prac.

tice and infield practice.

The tertative scheduie is nine
games, the first game being at Gas-
tonia High on April 10th. With
Spring vacation intervening and
not much time for preparation for
the opening game; it is hoped that
the weather will allow the squad to
have numerous workouts outside.

Coach Baird is trying to sche-
dule a few more games to fill in
the vacant dates, but at present
the schedule stands like this:

t—April 10: Gastonia Hi—There.

2—April 12: Belmont Abbey—
There.

3—April 13: Tech Hi—Here.

4—April 20: Harding—There.

5—April 28: Salisbury—Here.

6—May 1: Salishury—There.

7—May 4: Belmont Abbey—
Here.

8—May 8: Tech Hi—There.

9—May 11: Harding—Here.

A homely gal singer named Gunn,
Thought T.V. would be lotsa fun;
But the reason that she
Failed quite dismally—
She was flat in more ways than
one!

It Costs No More To Dress Correctly

CHANGE OVER—Wind-
ing up winter grid drills in the
Red and Black
game
means a change of uniforms
for tackle Jack Branch. The
Morganton big boy has been
working out for the past two

ildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

HOLIDAYS

TRAVEL TIME ,

FOR SPRING SPORTS .
»
DA AAAAAAA AAA AA AAD DAA ABA AAA AAALAAAAAL
FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1951

006 60d

Links Open Season
Against N.C. State

The Davidson golf team opened
its schedule today (Friday) at the
Charlotte Country Club by op-
posing North Carolina State. The
prospects for the coming season
seem very good. Coach Elgin White
believes he has “a pretty good
team, if. they get over the jitters.”
He is counting on veterahs Monty
Hill, who is one of the best col-
lege golfers in Nosth Carolina,
Mac McLean, Al Gaither, Jim
Sloan, and in impressive newcomer,
Lewis Barnes.

Both the matches with State to-
day and Carolina on Monday will
be tough since both have very
good teams, but “if Davidson plays
its best it can win both contests.”

The team has played one pre.
season match with Mooresville
Mills Country Club, winning 23-4,
Three players tied for medalist hon-
ors by shooting 73 on the par 70
course. They were Jim Sloan, Mac
McLean, and J.ewis Barnes.

The summary:

Jim Sloan (D) defeated Lonnie
Cox 3.0.

Mac McLean (D)_ defeated
Norm Ferguson 3.0. Best Ball—
Sloan and "McLean defeated Cox
and Ferguson 2 1-2 . 1-2.

Al Gaither (D) defeated Ralph
Stack 2 1-2 - 1-2. Norman Small
defeated Cecil Brandon (D) 2 1-2 -
1-2.

Best Ball—-Gaither and Brandon
defeated Stack and Small 3-0.

Lawrence Erwin (D) defeated
Albert Copeland 2 1-2 - 1-2.

Lewis Barnes (D) defeated Rob.
ert Holshouser 3-0.

Best Ball—Erwin and Barnes de-
feated Copeland and Holshouser
3.0.

May Schedule Wofford .

There was a possibility this week
that the varsity track team sche-
dule, riddled by cancellation, would
pick up another meet, Coach Heath
Whittle indicated.

Wofford has asked about a meet,
and Coach Whittle says that the
Terriers may be booked on March
31, three days after the cindermen
_|retura from Spring holidays. ~

wat, new

weeks for baseball on a eplit
echedule, and Monday he
moves into Coach Frank Pack-
ard’s outfield against Spring-
field. Jack wields a big stick
and should prove a valuable
man in the Cat lineup this

aay

Brown and Redding To Match Minds
In Annual intra Su ad Square Off

By DICK quat
The six-weeks labors of the fall football aspirants will
terminate tomorrow afternoon on Richardson Field with the
playing of the annual Red-Black game. For several weeks,
Spring (winter) football practice has been progressing and the

squad is rounding into good shape for the intra-squad game.
Plans and problems have been) ———————__——_

worked out and. the team has been
scrimmaging well for the last two
weeks and the intra-mural field re.
minds one of real football season.

Coach Little has divided the
squad into two matched teams as

the aspects of a real battle on the
campus this Saturday afternoon. It
is expected that some sort of a
boast will be made in chapel this
week, since much interest is aris-
ing on both teams as to the vic-

i Pierce, White, Gregg, Wade Wil.

Scollege. He worked out with the

follows. Coach Redding will coach
the “Black” squad consisting of
Captain Jerry Kiser, Courts, Rey-!%°” ~
noids, Gibson, Whisnant, Pierce, ell, Pr
Kelly, Rowland, White, Gregg, i
Wade and substitutes Trent, ‘Loy, |!
Davis, Armfield, Tucker, McCall]!

tor of the fray.

and Evatt.

Coach Ray Brown’s Redmen
boast Captain Dave Williams, Free-

yj
man, Putnam, Nickels, Purcell, .
Branch, Golding, Ruth, Guiton, %
Stuart, Turk, and subs Simmons, .

Graham, Perkins, McNeely, Mc.
Gill, Peeler, and Gray. Johnny Gray
and Walt Oakes are still on ‘the
sick list and are not expecting to
see action. Gray's finger is still in|.

a cast from a recent fracture and |}
“Sturdy‘'s” shoulder was dislocat-| & 7-_
ed recently and is still demobilized. | & a a

JERRY KISER
Captains Blacks

It will be strange indeed to walk
out to the stadium Saturday after-
noon and find Bob Turk, not at
his old end post, but as a hard-
driving fullback. Turk has shown
up well in work so far this spring.
His experience dates back to high
school days where he played in
the backfield. Also newcomers
Charlie Simmons, Dick Perkins,
Jim Golding, Bil Purcell and sev.
eral up-and-coming freshman stars
will bear watching in their first
varsity competition game. These
boys have pleased their tutors so
far this spring with their spirit and
general football know-how. Put-
nam and Courts have captured
‘starting posts on their respective
teams ta lead the frosh material
in this respect,

Oldsters with plenty of experi-

ence backing them up include Gib-
son, Reynolds, Whisnant, Kiser,

Es

DAVE WILLIAMS

liams, Freeman, Nickels, Branch,
Captains Reds

Peeler, McNeely, Ruth, Gulton,
Stuart, and Turk. Clay Evatt, Bob
Tucker, and Dick Kelly also saw
limited action in the past campaign.

Prospects are good for the Wild-
cats if the draft doesn’t hit too hard.
Coach Little has already had to
forego the services of Bill Acker,
Jim. Fasul, and C. L. Runyan to
the services and expects several
more will get the call this sum-
mer. However that should not hurt

Wildcat of Week : Gene Craven

By DICK LILES

Our Wildeat of the Week is the new Carolinas A. A. U.
128-pound ‘wrestling champ. Who else could it be but one of the
most promising wrestlers Davidson and North Carolina has
produced in a number of years. Ironically enough, Gene Craven
learned all bis early wrestling tactics watching the Appalachian
squad work out while he was still} io take Craven and insure the cup.
in high school. Living in Boone,| Even the App's manager remarked
the home of the Mountaineers,| that Ward would soon pin him
where there was no high schooljand end everything in the first
team, didn’t seem to hinder thef period. Gene had it figured differ-
hopes of Gene when he came tofently and completely mastered
Ward after the first few minutes.
Craven indeed has a wonderful
future before him for he was un-
defeated in his matches as a fresh-
man star and was decisioned only
twice in regular Southern Confer-
ence meets against some mighty
seasoned veterans of the mat. All
season he was the sparkplug of
Charlie Parker's “Luckless Lung-
ers” and could be counted on with.
out fail for a few points even when

Then there was the mountain-
eer who put a muffler on his shot.
gun because his daughter wanted a
quiet wedding,

Make my aerial wide and high
To let the neighbors know
That they are not the only ones
Who could rustle up the dough.

Apps and Coach Red Watkins
helped him along over the funda-
mentals. He couldn’t have had a
much better background, however,
for the Apps have dominated the
wrestling circles around these parts
for a number of years and went on
this year to the championship of
the two Carolinas in the A. A. U.
world,

Ironically? Yes, because Gene

beat the boy out for the title that
all Boone thought would make
quick work of the home-town pro.
duct. J. C. Ward, the regular 136-

pounder, was the boy Appalachian f-

was depending on to bring home
the bacon, and consequently he
came down to 128 pounds so as

his match was in danger. It was
not uncommon to pick up the pa-

pers after a Wildcat meet and see
“Craven (D) pinned Joe Blow (C)
in 3:24.” There should be no ques-
tion “why” Gene Craven is our
Wildcat of the Week.
