PAGE TWO

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

a
EDITOR IN CHIEF -.-..-...--...--------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ....... ..-.--------- JOHN LOFTIN
a
Associate Editors .....---. Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Feafures Editor .............. ..-----~-..------- Shelley Beard
Managing Editors .... .... Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George

McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photégraphs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott

City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White

Assitant Business Manager -....--------- wenn ene ese Alex Goley
Advertising Manager .-.-----.-.---- t-,---. Manley McWitliams
Circulation Manager ...---..---.-.---.------------ Ansley Moses
Collections Manager ~..-.-..------------.-.------- Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager ....-.-.------- ----------- ----- Bill Hart

Faculty Advisor—Prof. Henry T. Lilly

pe
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Mr. Ovens’ Contribution

It was indeed good news to all of us here at Davidson
to learn of the gift of $100,000 to the College from Mr.
David Ovens, vice-president of Ivey’s in Charlotte. This
contribution to Davidson marks the second large sum that
he has given to colleges with in recent weeks, for in De-
cember, he gave $250,000 to dur sister college in Charlotte,
Queens.

The decision to apply this money toward constructing
the new student union and the subsequent decision to name

the building David Ovens Student Union will meet with’

overwhelming acceptance. The new Student Union will
contain among many other things, music listening rooms
and facilities for extra-curricular activties, particularly
along cultural lines such as art and dramatics—areas in
which Mr. Ovens has had a lifetime of interest, devotion
and service. It has not been many weeks since the an-
nouncement was mace that the new auditorium in Char-
lotte would be named for Mr. Ovens whose efforts were
largely responsible for making tHis dream of Charlotteans
a reality. ,

The fact that Mr. Ovens is not a Davidson man, nor has
he had any prominent connection with the college in past
years, makes his gift all the more appreciated by students,
faculty and friends of Davidson throughout the country.
We feel that Dr. Cunningham adequately phrased the feel-
ings of us all when he wrote to Mr. Ovens: ‘‘Those of us
with »vhom you have shared your estate will surely wish
to do our work so well and handle the trust you place in
us so conscientiously that you will have nothing but joy
and satisfaction in your gift.’’

Exit Fireworks

It was a surprise to no one that the Student Council
earlier this week swung into action and campused four
students and evicted one from his dormitory who had been
convicted of shooting firecrackers in dormitories. It hvas
only a matter of time until the axe would fall. The re-
grettable thing about it all is that only a handful of the
offenders were caught and punished; and they must, in a
sense, take the punishment for the whole group.

Be that as it may, it will certainly be welcome relief
to be able to sit in your room without having to endure
the shock of a fireeracker’s exploding outside the door or
window, and to go to sleep at night assured that you ‘won’t
be rudely awakened by a firecracker’s nerve-shattering
explosion under your sack.

Year of Decision

(From the Daily Tar Heel)

Along with the rest of the world, the University is
faced in the new year of 1951 with an uneasiness and in-
security that seems to have no immediate solution. With
total mobilization becoming a reality, the futures of many
students seem to be dark with the prospect of military
service, and there is a general attitude of hopelessness
and ‘‘;what the hell’’ type of thinking.

Truly, the situation is one of uncertainty. But we would
like to think that the situation will not be worsened by the
type of attitude described above. If there is any time when
clear heads and resolute action is needed, it is now. And
that goes for college students just as it goes for political
leaders and people generally.

The year 1951 should be a real ‘‘year of decision”’ for
college students as well as for others, and we believe it
will be for students at the University. The proper decision
should be clear to everyone. Oun course is one of making
the most of a bleak situation, and doing our proper job
for a country.

And right new our job is to put to good use the oppor-
tunity that has been granted us for gaining education and
training at the University. Our leaders have recognized
the great need for college-trained people by making it com-
paratively easy for collegians as far as military service is
concerned. But we can only deserve such an opportunity
by using it in the manner for which it was granted. That
is our job-in the immediate future and that is what we owe
to ourselves and others. To do less is falling down in our
part of the total effort.

University students and University administrations
have always faced up to bleak situations with a determina-
tion and resoluteness that has been encouraging to see,
and, what is more important, has been successful in its pur-
pose. The situation of today, and the situation of the imme-
diate future, is one that requires such determination and
resoluteness.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1951

THE WORLD LAST WEEK MUSIC WITH HANSEN

By HENRY HANSEN

1) Ata conference in London, British Commonwealth ministers agreed

that “war is not inevitable.”

2) After losing the key town of Wonju, U. N. troops drove back to within
two miles of it and in general moved ahead.

3) The U.S.S.R. agreed to resume talk on its eleven billion dollar lend-

lease account.

4) American shipments of supplies to Chiang Kai-chek on Formosa have

been resumed.

5) Mt. Etna in Sicily began erupting again on a large scale.

6) French forces in Indo-China fared much better last week against the

Communist Vietmin troops.

7) General deGaulle of France urged the arming of Spain and Germany

for European defense

8) Truman's State of the Union Message argued for a build-up of
strength sufficient to discourage Russians from further aggression.

9) The French Assembly gave definite approval to a bill providing for

twenty armed divisions by 1953.

.

10) People the world over despaired at the actual and potential crises,

and some were hopeful that we would not merely resign ourselves to ’

what we consider inevitable.

GEECH’S GOULASH

By PAT McGEACHY

«

Occasionally you may hear a
mild explicative or two used in
connection with that vanguard of
defense, the Reserve Officer's Train-
ing Corps. Curses may arise anew,
‘tis true, but universal military
training is no new thing. If in this
peaceful age we find no logical
grounds for such a tojlsome in-
stitution, pray observe the sage
words of John Milton, of whom
you may have heard. The old boy
was writing on education, describ-
ing a day in the life. of an ideal
college. In the afternoon it seems,
they listen to music (ukeleles may-
hap) un- “... till about two hours
before supper, they are, by a sudden
alarum or watchword (usually
flat), to be called out to their mili-
tary motions, under sky or covert,
according to the season (inclement
weather is quite common in jolly
old England), as was the Roman
wont, first on foot (basic), then,
as their age pemits, on horseback,
to all the art of cavalry; that hav-
ing in sport (we differ here), but
with exactness and daily muster
(we differ here too), served out
the rudiments of their soldiership,
in all the skill of embattling,
marching, encamping, fortifying,
besieging, and bettering, with
all the helps of ancient and
modern stratagems, tactics, and
warlike maxims (unprintable, un-
fortunately, with the exception of
“Geronimo!”), they may as it were
out of a long war come forth re-
nowned and perfect commanders
in service of their country.”

Yea, verily, there is nothing new
under the sun. Can you not imagine
the young cadets, parading briskly
across the commons, shoutivg crisp
commands and wheeling with pin-

point precision from station to sta-
tion, or here and there clustered
beneath the shade of a friendly yew
learning to dismantle crossbows and
how to wear their mail. (In those
days, mail call was a cry for the
quartermaster to replace a rusty
vest). Baggy armor was the style,
designed with heavy bucklers and
shields for summer wear, with light
pantaloons for use in winter. The
cry was “Company! I say there!
Snap to!”, to which the alert ca-
dets would reply with a negligible
shifting of heavily spurred feet.

Truly we are not an advanced
age after all. So why be pessimis-
tic? Why be like the cynical bugler
who always played “taps” instead
of “assembly?” Let us just shrug
and say, “They did it in 1600, 1700,
1800, 1900, etc. and more than like-
ly our anthropoidish decendants will
be doing it in 2000, taking special
care to avoid radioactive corpses as
thev drill.” Beastly, isn’t it? But
then there is no point in using rose
colored glasses unless you want
things to appear rose colored. We
don’t think there’s any connection
between Milton's UMT and Para-
dise Lost, by the way.

So if on Dreary Tuesday you
should pause to think that back in
the “good ole days” they used to
drill every day, rain or shine, may-
be you won't feel so bad. O.K. then?
Chin up! Chest out! Gut in!
Straighten up those lines! Talyonn-
Ten-hut! Howard—Har! (This is
not out of the Field Manual, but
it is merely demonstrative of the
attitude that should be taken in
regard to this business. Didn't you
sign those deferment papers? And
as for ROTC, shucks, you'll never
get rid of the — — — , no matter
‘what you do.)

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS

Yes 68 per cent

Do you read the Davidsonian regularly?

No 32 per cent

2. Do you read Scripts and Pranks regularly?

Yes 62 per cent

No 38 per cent

3. Do you read a daily newspaper each day, either hometown

Although it has been my pleasure at various
times this year to announce the renascence of
musie at Davidson, and in years past to herald
its coming, it now becomes my painful but in-
eseapable duty to proclaim that one of its chief
ornaments, the presentation of Handel’s Mes-
siah, was notable only by its absence this year.

This presentation of the Messiah has be-
come a tradition here. Its performance. aside
from the technical excellencies or deficiencies

of chorus and soloists, has been characterized |

by an understanding of the not so obvious, and
often, surprisingly missed religions implica-
tions of the work. This is not to say that the
performance has in any one year been mediocre
from the purely technical standpoint—it has
always been a good performance, often sur-
prisingly so considering the amount of time
which was available to its preparation—it is
rather, to say that there has always been evi-
dent a deeper feeling of the work indicating a
more than superficial acquaintance ‘with it.

It is entirely possible that there are excel-
lent and very practical reasons why the work
was not presented this year. Limitations of
time or difficulties in securing of soloists may
have made a cancellation of the work sensible.
Nevertheless, it might be suggested that there
are certain situations involving, as this one
does, more than the actual presentation of a
work. There are certain values involved in the
way the work has been done here which would
tend to overcome so called practical considera-
tions.

The presentation of the work at Duke has
also become something of a tradition. Upon
learning that if I was to hear it at all in live
performance this year. Duke offered the one
chance of doing 20, I managed by dint of much
effort to get up to Duke to hear the Messinh.
In comment on their performance I ean only
say that the reason for its being traditional is
far from apparent. Though they have a larger
chorus than ours, it sings not nearly so well.
Jn addition, they used organ instead of orches-
tral accompaniement which detracted consider-
ably from the effectiveness of the work. Fin-
nily, even had the performance been better
technically than the ones ‘which have been
given here, which it certainly was not, there
was lacking completely the awareness of the
spirit of the work which has always made per-
formances here so excellent.

In conclusion then, if the reason or reasona
for the nan-performance of the Messiah this
year are completely overwhelming, then tradi-
tion and those who enjoy it. must be satisfied
with the practical reasons for the Messiah's
omission. If, as seems more likely, the reasons
were not so weighty as they at first seemed,
then we can at least hope that next year we
will onee more see and hear the performance
of the Messiah which we desired to have this
year. Architecturally speaking, Duke is more
impressive than Davidson. (Messianically speak-
ing, the competition is poor indeed. It is to be
hoped that next year the Messiah ‘will once
more be presented at Davidson.

or one here (Charlotte. ete.) ?

Yea 83 per cent No 17 per cent

DAVIDGONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

1. To abolish the double-cut system.

2. To change the existing system of giving cuts.

3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors
regardless of their age.

4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and
the college at large.

S. To change the system of student body elections.

6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programe and speak.

ore.
7. To give praise where praise is due.

8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sundsy night visitations to faculty homes.

10. age a he Clarification of stadene regulations to the student

Gags yom College Riga

She was only the
daughter—but, oh, where she had
bin.

She was a moon-shiner’s daugh.
ter, but he loved her still!

First Moron: “How late do you
usually sleep on Sunday morning?”
Second Moron: “It all depends.”
First Moron: Depends on what?”
Second Moron: “The length of

the sermon.”
—Field and Stream

PROM...

BE PREPARED
To: The Editors:

Maybe this is a bit early to be-
gin discussion on the system of
elections here at Davidson, but I
believe that something should and
must be done and done soon enough
to be effective this year. As I
remember, some talk was made last
year, but no action was taken .
that is, or seems to be, rather
characteristic of us. But anyone,
with a little realistic and intelli-
gent consideration, can see that our
system defeats its real prpose. As
I have been led to believe, college
is a preparation for our life on
the “outside” after college
days are over. The present set-up
not only misses this completely,
but also brings each year 4a num-
ber of men who, though perhaps
well qualified, are almost unknown
to the student body in general, This
way many good men are passed up.

“Coalitions, Mud-slinging, Dirty
Politics,” ete., are rather unpleasant
words, and I am just as ready to
admit this as anyone, But, that ap-
pears to be the way elections are
carried out on the national, state
and municipal programs, and these
are the ones that some of us are
already voting in and the rest of
us soon will. It is the duty of each
man in this country to enable him-
self to vote intelligently and to
understand the way these elections
are conducted. This is one of the
responsibilities of education! Yet
here we sit, indifferently allowing
a condition to go unchecked and
for the most part unquestioned that
is in diréct opposition to such obli-
gations to both ourselves and our
country-men.

May I ask those in power just
what has been done in respect to
changing the present system? What
has come of the discussions of last
spring? Have any other procedures
been investigated? What is the de-
fence and-or reason for such a
system? What are the proposed
changes? Is this the “DEMOCRAT-
IC GOVERNMENT? described on
page 35, paragraph 2, tine 13 of
“The Wildcat Handbook” of Da-
vidson College? What is democrat-
ic about our system? No speeches,
no campaigning, not even intelli-

gent discussion about the candi-

coalman’s *

Dentist: “Stop waving your arms
and making faces, sir. I haven't
even touched your tooth yer.’

Patient: “I know you haven't,
but you are stépping on my toe.”

—Kansas State Collegian

The star tackle at Clemson had
just played his final game. The
coach found him slumped in his
chair and in very low spirits.

“What's the matter?” asked the
coach. “We won the game. You
played great as you always did.
Everybody rates you All-Ameri-

dates. Is this democratic?

Just read these election regula.
tions in the Handbook, starting on
page 39, No. 6 (‘secret’ ballot),
Nos 8. 9, 10, 11 of Article IV.
How democratic are these? Do they
train you for the really big elec-

can. What more do you want?”

“Nothing much, coack,” as-
wered the star. “Only I wish I
could read and write!”

I: was the first day of school,
and the teacher was telling the
class how to raise their fingers if
they had to go to the rest room.
After the teacher had gone into
the details on how it was done,
Little Willie turned to the boy
behind him and said, “I really
don’t think that will stop it.”

E EDITOR’S MAILBOX

tions?

Just start thinking NOW. The
time for action is before the neéd
arises, when it is too late. You
are intelligent enough to handle a
real election program! Aren’t you?

——Phil Davis

Associated Studehis Memorial Building
University of Washington

a> omep T

Ask for it either way... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

The Associated Students Memorial
Union Building is one of the favor-
ite on-the-campus haunts of students
at the University of Washington.
That’s because the Union Building
is a friendly place, always full of
the busy atmosphere of college
life. There is always plenty of ice
cold Coca-Cola, too. For here, as in
university gathering spots every-
where—Coke belongs.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

COCA-COLA BOTTLING 0O., OF CONCORD

