PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

2 ae
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ...
BUSINESS MANAGER . ..

BILI. WHITE
ALEX GOLEY

Associate Editors .------------- Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,
. George McMurray
Managing Editors -.------~- Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,

John Ottley

Photographs—Archie Neal.
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson
. Boo Northcutt

Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Asistant Business Manager -

Advertising Manager -.----- .---- Jack Hobson
Cireulation Manager -------- teen Bob Poston
Collection Manager -------, ------- 00 eerooe Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager -.---------------- .. Preston Chaney

i
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C.. under the Act of March 3, 1897,

A Letter from the Editor .. .

September 14, 1951

Dear Freshman:

You've been a college student, most of you, for about 24 hours now.
The good Lord willing and grades not to the contrary you'll saill be one
61,968 hours from tonight.

For the majority of this Class of '55 it was Davidson gentleman or
dogface, just as it has been all over the country this fall. And a Jot of
fellows who wanted just 4s much—and maybe more—to be a gentleman
at Davidson or Duke or Denison will be taking PRI while you are at
PT, battlitig basic while you buck biology, Makes you kinda squirm to
think about it, doesn’t it-—you at Homecoming and this other guy
crawling his infiltration course *

It shouldn't. You're hardly the select of a caste system whereby the
aristocracy attends college and the peasant fights his war, It’s still
Selective Service, and ‘though the draft hasn't.dipped ifto your age
bracket quite yet, there's the strony possibility that you, as a college

There is. of course, a good reason behind your deferment, because

There is. of course, a good réaon behind your deferment. because
education will always. lick ignorance, be it in medicine, sports, business,
agriculture, or war. Korea has proved, amony other things, that well-
trained soldiers, under intelligent leadership and with the firepower
and mechanized equipment that an industrial nation has produced, can
stop a greater number of blind, ignorant troops who neither know nor
care why they are fighting. ,

If the. deferment tests’ are offered again next spring. many of you
will take them and continue in school,. probably until you receive a
diploma, and stand a good chance af receiving a comniission after en-
‘tering the service, Others will gain commissions through ROTC, Still
others of you will go next summer or sooner, serving as NCO’s or pri-
vates. At any rate, you will be looked to as a college man, diploma or
no, and. you will be looked to for leadership. College right now is your
training ground. by applying yourself (and that’s not as overemphasized
as it Seems) you can gain maturity, responsibility, self-discipline, char-
acter. You can adjust yourself to life with other men, sacrificing here
and there to help another. And you will learn that the other fellow isn't
adverse to lending you a hand now and then, either. College can change
you, all right—for the better if you want. Rut without application or
effort. it won't do the job for you. .

This isn’t a somber note, just a serious one. This isn’t the carefree,
joy boy college day of a world at peace. These are days of preparation.
Think about what lies ahead for each of you, and you'll get the point.

Sincerely,
YOUR EDITOR.

“Hey Freshman, run
to the Stud and get me
a Blue Ribbon,” prob-
ably won't be the first
contact you'll have with
Davidson, because right
off the bat you'll see the
“rough and rugged”
boys getting ready for
their first game with
Lenoir-Rhyne the 22nd.
You will become ac-
quainted with the
“sporting” situation
that was hinted at above
quite early, but that is
out of my line.

Here at Davidson

where we haven't al-
ways had the ‘‘winningest’’ teams, we like to pride ourselves in
e fact that the entire student body was behind the team. win
or lose. This Ucopian situation was not always 100 per cent true,
but we have the reputation of having a lot of spirit and always
he will to win, although the competition might be too great

* to win.

The “Davidson Spirit’ is a tradition. You've heard tradi-
tion... tradition . . . tradition since you've been here, but
none of them is prided more than our spirit. I wish every one
ot -ou could have seen the game against State over in Charlotte

4 years ago. State had what was considered their best team in
years. Davidson always had a spirited and game team, but we
_7 were about our lowest ebb. I don’t know whether it was the
fact that the whole team was graduating and had been playing
so long together, or that one of the boys had just become the
proud papa of a bouncing baby girl, but those crippled and
weakened boys just beat the pants off that State crew. It was
the greatest show of spirit I had ever seen. The fans yelled and
cheered for the entire show and went off very happy. but also
very worn out.

This year the football outlook is the best it has been since
1946 when ‘Wild Bill” Storey fielded his outstanding Fresh-
man squad. In his second year at the helm, head coach Crowell
(Cruel) ‘Little has mustered together what should and easily
could be the winningest team since ‘46. At any rate it is quite a
step forward in the rebuilding program now underway. Beside
the regulars left after graduation, he has scooped up some of the
finest frosh material that was available in this part of the country.

This is by far the largest squad Davidson has had in its
history and from all preliminary reports and observations, looks
like it is going to be a rather fine time for you Frosh to be coming

in. You chose a darn good school.

By DICK LILES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

\\

(6

Anes

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1951

NN nn

LAST WEEK..

6 tk
\ é ° Hoe
aN),

Sexperts (by

Does’s and Doesn’ts About Your Davidsonian

As compulsory subscribers to Da-
vidson College's only weekly news-
paper, members of the Class of ‘55
and transfer students are entitled
to a brief run-down on pertinent
facts concerning the paper.

1. The Davidsonian is double the
dose you're getting this week. It is
a four-page. eight-colunin paper,
slated for publication every week
during the school year except holi-
days and exams. Twenty-six publi-

cations after this freshman issue are’

planned.

2. The paper is planned to ap-
pear after supper Friday nights on
the week of publications. There is a
minute—Oh, ever so minute—a
possibility that you may sit up once

or twice until Saturday mornimez
awaiting its arrival.

3. Despite the high prestige en
joyed by this campus organ, staff
membership is not exclusive. Rather
it ig inelusive of every. type we've
got here in the student body. Youll
‘have a chance in a wectk or two.
to throw your form in. our melting
pot.

4. “All the news that’s fit to
print” is not our motto, for some
news that is fit to print elsewhere is
not fit to print in Davidson, We
do our best to get lurid and sensa-
tional over the election of officers
by Phi Mu Society, and leave the
rest to your imagination. ;

5. For reasons stated in No. 4,

——_—

Improved Wildcat Team Encounters

Lenoir Rhyne In

Season's Opener

A time-tested attack but a new, untried defense is the story

on the Lenoir-Rhyne team which the 1951 Wildcats will face
in their season opener September 22. Coach Clarence Stasovich
will have his single- wing offensive team back almost intact, but
he is having to build almost an entirely new defensive outfit.

Cat Coaching Staff }
Now Complete With
Chandler, Fetzer

Resides the 20-odd freshman as-
pirants for football positions, Coach
Crowell Little has two new assist-
ants which have dlready “sewed up”
their positions. Coach Tom Fetzer
and Buddy Chandler have already
started theis work with the foot-
ballers and promise to help out a
lot in the ensuing days when the
team is polished up for wars among
the other contenders of the South-
ern Conference.

Tom Fetzer hails from Reidsville
and was an outstanding prep star
before going to Wake Forest, where
he was the scourge of the confer-
ence for three years. He handled
the scatback post until “Peahead”
Walker placed him behind center
at the quarterback post when he
shifted to the “T” formation.

Ruddy Chandler came to David-
son with Bill Storey’s Frosh dream
team after the war. He had played
with the prep team that had won
the Virginia State Championship for
three straight years and were un-
defeated. He played first string ball
for four years under Storey and
Jameson and.contracted to play pro
ball until he took the line-coach’s
job at his alma mater. He's really
going to be a “big” help among
those monsters up front.

Co-captains Jim Newsom and Al

Archibald, working from the tackle |

positions, will be the mainstays in
the Bearcat line. Steve Trudnak,
All-Conference in 1950, and twins
Gené and Jerry Robinson, the
former an All-State back last fall,
will be the men to stop in the back-
field.

As tar as his own team is con-
cerned, Coach Crowell Little nat-
urally regrets the loss of passing acc
Auburn Lambeth but has an experi-
enced and capable performer in
King’s Mountain’s Jack Ruth.
Spelling Ruth at least part of the
time should be sophomore Dan Mc-
Call and possibly freshman John
Archer. There is an abundance of
talent at the halfback spot, but
doutbless standbys Roy White,
A. C. Gregg, Johnny Guiton, and
Sophomore Johnny Gray will carry
the brunt of the attack at this po-
sition, Ham Wade has been Little's
fullback so far.

Up front, with so many able frosh
to draw from, Coach Little proba-
bly will not know until opening day
who he will start. Bob Turk and
Dave Williams seem to have cap-
tured the offensive assignments at
the ends.

At the tackles, Captain Bill Free-
man and Jack Branch are being
hard-pressed by a host of hustling
candidates, notably freshmen Wal-
ter Yates and Harry Peterson. Al-
ternate Captain Jerry Kiser is the
only, certain starter at guard. Arnold
Whisnant and Dick Perkins have
handled offense and defense, re-
spectively, at center.

‘we cannot mirror the mind of the
Davidson student on our editorial
page, but we will print any letter
to the editor you'd let your mother.
read.

6. tf you want to sell your over-
shoes, umbretla, electric fan, Latin
pony, ete, RUN, don't walk to the
advertising manager!’ But, no beer,
liquor, orange juice, etc., please.

1%
a) q
ae

The largest squad in Davidon’s football history greeted the

cameraman with this display of manpower on opening day of drills.

two weeks ago tomorrow. While some of the personnel in the
picture has changed, the squad still boasts better than 60 members,

1951 Cats Elect Freeman Captain;
‘Kiser Alternate For Coming Year

A couple of front liners will be making the important
decisions on the field for the Wildcat gridders this fall. Coach
Little’s sixty-man squad last week chose Tackle Bill Freeman
as captain and made Guard Jerry Kiser alternate captain.

Freeman, an aggressive lineman
who has been aptly nicknamed
“Bull” by his teammates, is a five-
eleven, 183-pound § senior from
Winston-Salem. This fall he will be
playing his second season as a regu-
lar. One of the most conscientious
workers on the squad, Bill also
sports a highly enviable scholastic
average, For his outstanding per-
formance against Presbyterian Col-
lege last fall, Freeman was voted
Lineman of the Week by N. C.
sports writers,

‘Kiser, who packs 230 pounds on
a five.ten frame, is nevertheless one
of the most agile linemen on the
Wildcat squad. The 1951 season
will also be the second campaign as
a first-stringer for this 21 year old
senior from Shelby. Although Jerry
has more competition at his posi-
tion than any other regular (six.
teen other men are candidates for
guard), there is little doubt that he
will be one of the mainstays of the
Cat line.

Frosh Cake Race
Set Next Friday

Next Friday, September 21, is the
date set for the running of the. tra-
ditional Cake Race by members of
the freshmen class.

All frosh will participate, running
a portion of the cross-country
course for the cakes and other fine
pastries awaiting the winners. The

cakes are baked by the women of
Davidson, and a frosh who “places”
has not gone away hungry yet.

Last year in the post-war revival
of the affair, Bill Shipley of Ashe-
ville set a new course record with
a winning time of 8:57.1, edging
Bill Coe in a sprint to the finish.
Both boys later became outstand-
ing members of the freshman track
and cross country teams,

....and another from Joe

‘Dear Freshinan:

First of all let mre welcome you to your new home away from home.
Don't know why you chose the old place—it certainly isn’t the social
center of the South, its football team is completely snubbed by the AP
the way, do you think Tennessee is holding all they say.
she is?) and the campus, while beautiful, is not endowed with fair co-eds.

What does it have, then? Well, first of all, it has boys-hundreds
ct them, the best in the world. For 115 years, the good old Scotch Pres-
byterians have been pouring their best blood into D. C.. and regardless
of what they do or don’t learn in colleges these boys manage to ‘rate
high in graduate schools, the business world, and professional life. Of
course yo can’t give the Scotch all the credit, though, for in this modern
aye they're beginning to be out-nuimbered on the campus,

A preacher. told me once that boys, as a group, have the highest
ideals in the world, They all hope to be shining lights for humanity
in a brave. new world. lt was discouraging, he said, to watch those ideals
and dreanis fade out with maturity, to be replaced by a cold, cynical
sophistication. Well, the other schools call us “Boys Town,” and T think
one reason for this tag is that the Davidson gentleman hasn't acquired
his hard shelt of cynicism, which today seems to be the mark of ma.
turity. Hf that’s maturity, then Jet's keep on being friendly, courteous,
honest to others and expecting honesty in tetucn, entertaining a few
serious thoughts about religion and God —and let them keep on calling
us “Boys Town!”

Besides boys, Davidson has a faculty, of whom you will soon be
painfully aware. [t isn't all play, fellows, even though one-third or more
of the marshals at the Deb Ball in Raleigh. were Davidson students.
There's just no substitute for an education, and: as President Cunning-
ham says. first things first. To be blurt, ‘your father or your coach can’t

get you in or keep you in schoril—yuu've got to do it yourself, ‘This.

principle keeps us from turning oul a powerhouse foothall team, but
it also keeps us near the top in scholastic, standings, ‘and gives Davidson
a reputation among mature educational circles that other, schools can
only envy, Many of our professors could niake more money elsewhere,
but their love for the old scliool anchors them here. So give them and
yourself a break and hit the books—that's what you're here for.

At first glance it might seem that there's not much to be found here
at Davidson except fiovs and professors and. of course, the physical
plant. And. if you just take one took, get caught in the social. whirl,
and go gallivanting off every weekend, thal’s probably all you will see in
Navidson. Don't get me wrong, chum, Um not advocating a stay at-
home policy, but you are going to have to take an interest in the school
if you. expect to acquire the most cherished tradition around these parts
—Davidson Spirit. Now spirit is one of those intangibles which is like.
woman’s virtue—if there's neh talk about it, it probably doésn't amount
to anything. So f won't indulze in any flowery phrases, but ‘suffice it
to say that the Spirit is still alive, and its up to you to fan the itame.
All the véterans are gone now, and Davidson is as nearly back to nor.

| matcy as is possible in these times. Don’t let down the [14 classes that

have gone before you, ‘cause they're counting on you toa uphold the
traditions they cherish,

During Orientation you will get enoughiadvice to fill a small library,
so L won't bore you further with what you'll get cnough of later. Just
tell the folks you bum rides with that you go to Davidson, a liberal arts
college about 20 miles from Charlotte, a schoal where you can visit
faculty members Gn Sunday night after’ Vespers, a sclioal where you
attend chapel 5 days a week, a school where everybody knows everybody
else. a school that turns out individuals and not production line auto-
matons with interchangeable parts, a school: that’s just great, and, in
spite of all its faults and inadequacies, azschool that you love.

Sincerely, -
JOF COLLEGE,

2 me, ,
Sh 7 = .
Fo. .
ee: “2; ad

F |

assuring the Cats of a 1951 that obviously janit Boing to be reserve
shy. One week from tomorrow Coach Crowel! L charges open
the season with Lenoir-Rhyne's Bears.

WV. |

WELCOME |

Freshmen and Transfers
to ‘your

COLLEGE SHOP

WILSON-WRIGHTS

Next Door To The Bank
FREE

@ Pair of Fall Slacks

@ Sweater
@ Argyles

@ Other Valuable Prizes

Come in Friday and Saturday and‘put your
name in the pot!

Refreshments For All ~

~~
