PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .. ..
BUSINESS MANAGER ....

Associate Editors

BILL WHITE
ALEX GOLEY

Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,
George McMurray

Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,
John Ottley

Photographs— Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor-——-Ed Richardson
Boo Northcutt
Jack Hobson

Managing Editors --.-----.-
Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Lites
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Asistant Business Manager --..-- .

Advertising Manager ---.-.----- 0 = nee
Circulation Manager ..--..-----. .. + eee ecee Bob Poston
Collection Manager --.---------. 0 ewe eee Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager .-----~--.--.------------ Preston Chaney

—
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Outstanding Lecture Series
Tribute To Spencer’s Ability

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., has been at Davidson in his
capacity as assistant to the president such a short time that the
majority of the student body has not yet met him, but he has
already come up with a job well done that stamps him a go-
getter.

Exactly, Dr. Spencer and the fecture committee. have come
up with a lecture series line-up which looks to be the finest in
years. The. series leads off with Hans Olav. Norwegian assistant
secretary of state, speaking on Norway's feelings as a nation in
the Atlantic Pact, caught between Russia and the U. S. Few
topics could be more timely and few men are better qualified to
talk ou. Liue Subject 100 U.av. Cornelia Oris Skinner, the lone
trooper known throughout the theater world for her monologue
performances, offers a program of six of her own sketches on
December 3. ;

America’s No. | woman columnist and news analyst Doro-
thy Thompson. a gal who is known to say what she feels no
matter whose toes she's treading on. will speak on the world’s
spot, the Middle East and Palestine in March. A top musical
team of pianist Leonard Eisner and New York Times music
critic winds up the series on April 2] with a dual lecture
“Ideas Behind Music.’

Certainly the lecture committee is to be congratulated on
such a brilliant array of speakers. It is a tribute to Dr. Spencer
that his first year has begun in such a fine fashion.

There Is No “Two-Hour Rule”

Let’s get something straight. There is no such thing as a
“two-hour” rule on dance weekends.

For the past week the rumor has been making its way
actoss the campus that such a rule has been slapped on those
students who would keep their dates in Davidson homes on social
weekends. The ‘‘two hour’’ business stems from the fact that
this ‘‘rule’’ requires dates to be returned to cheic respective
hosts or hostesses within two hours after the attended function
ends.

Following a meeting two weeks ago the various fraternity
social chairmen informed théir respective groups that a clearing
board of rooms was being rigged up among local residents, to be
handled by Mrs. Litttle. A letter going out to Davidson citizens
asking them to contact Mrs. Little if they would be interested
in keeping girls on dance weekends also included the statement
that girls staying with them would usually be in within “about
two hours after the event.’

Such a statement should have been superfluous. It was
only an assurance to those kind enough to take the responsi-
bility of taking a girl into their home for one or two nights
that she and her date did have the decency to come in at a
respectable hour, that they would behave as the obligated guests
which they are.

No, there's still no rule. nor will there be. There was just
the simple reiteration by your social chairmen that a Davidson
gentleman knows the meaning of the word. So long as he
does, he hasn't got to worry about the townfolk backing down on
a traditional and wonderful hospitality.

Mirror of Student Expression

One of the axioms of journalism is that a newspaper is
No stronger than its readers.

From that truism stems one of the chief weaknesses of
THE DAVIDSONIAN. For years THE DAVIDSONIAN has
served well as a reporter of past, present, and future events: it
has expressed the sentiments of its editorial staff through these
columns; it has afforded temporary entertainment on its arrival;
it has served as clipping source for fraternity scrapbooks and the
alumni files.

But in its one great function THE DAVIDSONIAN
seems never to have reached its potentialities—that of mirroring
student opinion. Few schools can boast the 100 per cent sub-
scription as can THE DAVIDSONIAN, and possibly it is a
good thing—those who do subscribe are interested readers. But
with this complete campus penetration, THE DAVIDSONIAN
becomes the leading medium for ideas on the campus, or rather,
it potentially becomes this leading medium. Its failure to fulfill
can, for the most part, be laid at its readers.

Much cussed and discussed affaires de campus never amount
to a row of pins simply because they don't Bet out of 213 West
or 201 Duke. They die right there—and many of them are
darn good ideas. The means to expression lies in Letters to the
Editor in THE DAVIDSONIAN. If something's bothering
you, take a poke at it. The ban on obscenity is the only one
we use. It doesn’t have to be long, but what you say may
stimulate others, and stimulation leads to action. Take pen in
hand, and maybe we'll do away with the talk that this student
body is faculty-administration dictated to.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“s+NOT A DEAD RAT — IT'S MY ROTC RAINCOAT.”

Man Proves DICK ROPER:

Dollar A Day
Wage Enough

There’s a man up in Rock Gap,
West Virginia, whom John L.
Lewis, Walter Reuther, et al,
would not like very much. In fact,
they wouldn't get along with him
at all.

The man is big, muscular Joe
Miller, an easygoing individualist
with an amazing list of skills. Joe
is ‘an expert blacksmith, butcher,
veternarian, machinist, farmer, and
carpenter, and has plied these
trades for thirty years.

But in all those years he has
never accepted more than one
dollar a day plus his meals for
his wages.

A newspaperman asked the sixty-
year old Miller if he was trying to
carry on a one-man battle against
inflation.

“Not exactly that,” the’ robust
farm hand explained. “I'm fighting
to keep my integrity. It's a matter
of principle. 1 don’t believe a man
is worth more than a dollar a
day.”

To Miller, a day is no soft eight-
hour shift. “Miller butchered seven
hogs for me one day last year,”
one farmer recalled. “‘He worked
from 5 a.m. until 10 p. m. He killed
the hogs, dressed them, cut them
up, made the lard and sausage,
canned pounds and pounds of meat
and then tidied up the yard. All for
a dollar a day and meals.”

Miller sticks to his principles,
too, even if an employer tries to
force more than his standard wage
on him. The same farmer quoted
above told how he tried to make
his valuable hand to take more
money. “He looked at me and said:
‘One dollar is my price, Keep your
extra money. D'you want to make
me angry with you?”

But how does he live off such
a ridiculously small wage?

“Most people have only one job
and that's all they do and can do,”

says Mr. Miller. “Left to them-
selves most would starve to
death.”

For his one dollar a day, Mr.
Miller, in addition to the previous-
ly mentioned trades, builds barns
and houses, operates and repairs
threshing machines, tractors and
wagons, sharpens saws and
scythes, treats sick cows, horses,
hogs and chickens, shears sheep,
tans and cures hides—in fact, just
about anything that his farmer em-
ployers in Maryland, West Vic-
ginia and Virginia want done.

To supplement his meager ecarn-
ings, Mr. Miller raises chickens,
hunts, trades with farmers, and
shoots hawks for the bounty—
“the only way a man can take
money from his government with-
out blushing.” Since he eats all
his meals on the job, food is no
problem.

“A man ought to work first for
pleasure and pride’ in a job well
done—not just for money, money,
money,” says the old bachelor.
“Living is a matter of government.
And good government begins with
self-government. If men would try
to govern themselves, the country
would be on its feet in right smart
time.”

A question which more than,a
few denizens of the dorms are
concerned about at the present, is,
“Now that I'm back, just how long
will I beé able to stay here?” This
is a very interesting subject, its
periinence being enhanced greatly
in the last few weeks by the con-
troversy on the subject of draft
deferments. The most logical way
to keep up to date on the matter
is by reading the papers and listen-
ing to the radio, and those colle-
gians who attempt to stay so in-
formed probably saw this story,
which appeared in newspapers all
over the country September HH:

“Draft-age youth in college this
fatl can look back on the con-
fusing days of mid-1950 with an
air of relative certainty about their
future prospects ~ + + Educators
and draft offictals alike agree
(that) today's student is better able
to line up his chances of staying
in school than at any time since
the’ Korean war began.”

This was nice to know ‘since it is
somewhat nerve-wracking to be
trying to make good grades while
wondering at what time General
Hershey is going to pull the chair
out from under you. Very reassur-
ing to those who were planning to
get a wonderfukSMirt in the new
school year.

Then, the very next day, Sep-.

tember 12, this bombshell was
dropped, in the form of an Asso-
ciated Press story with a Washing-
ton dateline:

“Assistant Seercrary of Defense
Anna Rosenberg recently told the

LY a SSS SSSA

Unpredictable Washington
Keeps Collegians Sweating

Senate Appropriations Committee
that the Selective Service system
is being asked to set aside next
year the draft deferment now
granted students.”

The bottom really had dropped
out then; it was a signal for the
faint-hearted to forget the books
and enjoy the bright lights.

The ink had hardly dried on the
presses which rolled out this bit
of misery when another AP story
came into the news rooms of the
nation’s dailies. On September 13,
the tune again changed as evi-
denced in this report, which many
papers front-paged:

. The defense department
has not recommended that college
deferments be abolished nor does
it plan to do so unless there is a
substantial change in the size of
the armed forces. There is no
change in plans for the coming
academic year.”

So it looks as though the col-
legian will continue to sit pre-
cariously on the edge of his chair
and try to get some studying done,
while outraged defenders of de-
mocracy make their snide remarks
and draw cartoons depicting him

as one of the newly-privileged
aristocracy.
If, however, anybody is look-

ing for assurance that he will be
allowed to finish college, he had
just as well forget it. Because it
seems fairly obvious from the con-
tradictory reports cited above that
nobody, but nobody, knows what
is coming off from one minute to
the next,

Tar Heels Hit Segregation

(Ed. Note: The following
article is reprinted from Wed-
nesday’s Daily Tar Heel, Uni-
versity of North Carolina stu-
dent newspaper. For the past
several days the paper has fea-
tured the protest of the student
body against segregation rul-
ings against Negro members.
This summer the University be-
came one of the first institu-
tions in the South to grant Ne-
groes admission to the State
university. It is encouraging to
note that the UNC student
body, chided several years ago
for possible taints of Com-
munism, is exploding that non-
sense with true American de-
mocracy.)

By Walt Dear

The Student Legislature and the
Monogram Club both passed reso-
lutions last night protesting the
segregation of Negzo students in
Kenan Stadium. The solons passed
the measure 27-14 while the ath-
letes passed their resolution unan-
imously.

Calling onthe administration to
“respect the rights of every stu-
dent with equal privileges and re-
sponsibilities for all,” the legisla-
tors asserted that action taken by
the administration was an affront
to every student in the University.

The statement by athletes, with

20 out of 28 members present said,
“The Monogram Club of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina protests
segregation in the student section
of home athletic contests.”

The legislative resolution, intro-
duced by Ed Stevens, UP member,
said, “It will be tragic if we at the
University allow, without vigorous
protest, any action that threatens
to undermine the proud record that
is ours.”

The legislators, meeting for only
50 minutes, heard members. take
side in a quite but suspense filled
session. Dick Murphy, making his
initial speech before the Legisla-
ture, pointed out that “a student's
right had been abridged. ‘““If the
segregation goes unprotested, it
puts the right of ail students in
jeopardy,” he declared.

Dick Kennebrew, UP floor
leader, said that he voted no be-
cause the students he represents
believed that Negroes should not
be admitted to the cheering sec-
tion in Kenan. In a poll he con-
ducted in Whitehead dorm, com-
posed of medical, dental, and pub-
lic health students he said that
“70 don’t want Negroes in the sec-
tion” while 36 do and 18 abstained.

The Monogram Club resolution
introduced by Barry Farber, vice-
president, was announced to the
legislature two minutes before a
roll call vote was taken.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1951

NAT DANIEL:

Frosh Status Elevated As

Liberalism Prevails On Campus

a little less intelligent, and (if T]al period as possible.
may be so bold) probably not thef At last we come to the senior.
ball of. fire he'll turn out to be.] He, as does the junior, uses the
So when the freshman carries your freshman, but in veneral his at-
‘daundry; thank hint; when he asks|titude is that of a beneign father
intelligent questions give hint the| gazing fondly upon his young but
straight dope, when he seems stupid | potentially capable son who must
look first at yourself, when he is{grow up, or of a master scratching
really trying to improve, give him|his dog behind the ears and yiving
a word of confidence, but when|{him a bone,
he turns out to be a (unfit to print] So remember, friends, the fresh-
at Davidson) give him a little con-[man is growing up—he’s too big
structive hell. to spank now, Let us bear with him
From the juniors point of view, | patiently, help him whenever possi-
the freshman and the sophomore | ble, discipline him when necessary,
are surprisingly similar and only | but remember that he is a fellaw
then does he realize that a son'o-| Davidsonian, a citizen of these
more is only.a freshman who is| United States, and a human in-
no longer restricted ‘from doing | dividual, and as such is entitled to
the things he wanted to do last all the rights, brivileges and re-
‘Tyear, but couldn't, sponsibilities with which such a
position is blessed.

Each year at the beginning of

school, writer after writer, on the
staff of the Davidsonian fills up
column after column with un-
adulterated drivel concerning those:
select high school graduates who
comprise Davidson’s freshman
class. T myself, even, in my less
mature moments, have concocted a
sound and fury which only served
to waste newsprint, lower my al-
ready dubious reputation as a pen-
pusher, and generally defame, in-
insult and maiign our freshmen.
After four years, though, it has
finally come to my attention, that
despite the arguments to the con-
trary offered by the sophomores
that more than anthropologically
speaking, even, the freshman is a
human being.
It is admitted by the writer,
however, that the second syllable
of the term is a misnomer;
“freshboy” being a much more ac-
curate description of the creature
which we must remodel into a
Davidson gentleman.

The junior uses the freshman for
shoe polishing, laundry carrying,
etc.,. but seldom turns him into
the court, try to scare him to death
or make him feel like a nonentity.
He classes the freshman as hu-
man, but never forgets as such he
is most insignificant. | do not refer
here to the less mature junior,
whose attitudes, actions, and in-
telligence are about equal to that
of the average sophomore. The
better junior should be reminded,

To the sophomore, to whom the
freshman is mere living animal
matter, of value only in that he
may be intimidated, enslaved, fright-
ened half out of his wits, and used
as a scapegoat for all the stupid,

adolescent, and improper things
done by you and your fellow class-
mates, may we remind you that
only last year—just ‘twelve short
and yet so long months ago—that
you were in the same predicament
that confronts him now and that
you were probably a little greener

‘it is imperative for the sake of his

however, that some of the fresh-
man’s tinte is his own; that he
must live with him when he be-
comes a sophomore, and. therefore

own health and nerves to do every-
thing in his power to make boy
into man with as short a transition-

Campus Inzerviews on Cigarette T esis

yo

No. 23 yp
i

THE

Aterall the kesh...
aatark a mile

This classy campus caper-cutter got his snootful of
cute cigarette tests. It didn’t take him long to dig out
the fact that cigarette mildness can’t be determined
by a mere single puff or quick-sniff experiment!
Millions of smokers, on and off the campus, have discov-
ered there’s only one true test of cigarette mildness,
IT’S THE SENSIBLE TEST... the 30-day
Camel Mildness Test, which simply asks you to
try Camels as your steady smoke — on a day-after-day
basis. No snap judgments. Once you've tried Camels
for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat,
T for Taste), you'll see why...

After all the Mildness Tests —
Camel leads all other brands by Aiiions

