With the close of
school approaching and
the weather, getting
awfully hot and humid
up on ‘‘the hill’, the
sports scene seems to
be settling down to a
slow preparation of its
ultimate death for the
year. The golf team
closed its season Mon-
day after dropping to
Carolina for the second
time. The Whitemen
only have to wait now
for the White Sulphur
Springs jaunt and the
Southern Conference
Tournament to be played there.

Derrick Barton's lads are now finishing up their Northern
tour and will return to Davidson to get ready for the Southern
Conference play which is to be held here starting Thursday.
The racqueteers have a job on their hands in defending the title
won last year. Allen Strand stands in a good position to hold
on to the eup that Bo Roddey won last year with his stellar
play. At. the time of writing, the Cats had a 1-1 record on the
tour, dropping to Yale and defeating Lehigh. They meet the
Country Club of Virginia tomorrow and then return home.

Coach Packard’s diamond nine are seeking to break into
the win column after a long lay-off with games at Clemson
today and Furman tomorrow. The last game of the season will
be played at State next Friday, the Lith. The Cats dropped a
heartbreaker to the University of South Carolina, Tuesday, by
5-4. Hengeveld pitched a fine game, the hitting was good, and
the errors didn’t come so thick and fast, but one or two bad
errors and the inability to hit in the eclineh of the big eighth,
spelled a one-run deficit when the ninth rolled around.

Coach Whittle announced that he will lengthen his track
schedule (which was. cut down considerably by cancellations
earlier in the year) to include a match with N.,C. State next
Saturday afternoon, May 12th, on the local cinders. The boys
trounced Wofford last Saturday with the mile relay team
breaking the school record in that event. The cindermen travel
today to Clemson where they will meet Clemson College in the
last dual meet away from the home campus.

Davidson's First Annual All-Sports Banquet comes off
Monday night in the college dining hall. It promises to be one
of the highlights of the sports scene here at Davidson. We
heartily hope that a ‘‘tradition’’ will spring up from the prece-
dent that will be set when the athletes get together for awards
and addresses Monday night. The highlight of the evening will
be Commissioner Wallace Wade’s talk, Several coveted awards
will be given at this time, among ‘which are the Ed Armfield
Blocking Trophy, Tommy Peters Award and Merchant Track
Trophy. These awards were won last year by Johnny Richards,
Whit Cobb and Tommy Haller, respectively.

Down in Florida the sun-drenched peninsularites stood with
mouths gaping as a young Davidson Sophomore toured the 880-
yard cinder path with an amazing 2:01.8 minute time. Againat
Wofford, this same young fellow ran 440 yards on the mile re-
lay team faster than the regular 440-yard dash ‘was run, and
set the pace for the fastest mile relay ever run at Davidson,

Steadily Bob Henry has been improving since he hit David-
son as a Freshman last year. In the fall, he has been active on
the Cross-Country team and this has helped him immensely in
getting good form and into good shape, Coach Whittle has high
hopes for Bob in his track work at Davidson before he leaves
here, He expects Henry to break two minutes in their meet with
Clemson tomorrow, because he thinks Bob has not reached his
best time for the year in the 880,

The Soph KA from West Virginia ran the first lap in
the mile relay last Saturday in 52.8 seconds, a full second faster
than the winning time for the 440. Next week Bob will get his
final chance to break the records when the team meets State.

By DICK LILES

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Davidson will again be the host school for the Southern
Conference Tennis Tournament this year. The tournament will
be held the week-end of May 10, 11 and 12, with participation
open to all schools that are members of the Conference. It has
been decided by the schools of the conference that the limit of

the number of players from each

Phi-Dets, Wi

school will be eight for the singles,
and four teams for the doubles.
Trophies will be awarded to the
schools of the players who win in
the singles and doubles and there
will also be individual winners and
runner-up prizes. Mr. Oliver Rod-
dey, Sr. of Charlotte will be the of-
ficial referee, and all matches will
be the best two out of three sets
for singles and doubles until the
semi-final and final matches, which
will be the best three of five sets.
Although most of the schools in
the conference have not answered
the bid for the tournament yet,
a good many schools are expected
to participate, Also no seedings
have been made yet, but a host of
stars will probably be present and
seeded such as William and Mary's
Tommy Boys, Duke's Henfjing,
Carolina’s Heath Alexander, and
Davidson's own Alan Strand. Of
course, Davidson will be out to
win the honors in singles and
doubles as they did last year
through the fine playing of Bo Rod-
dey and Whit Cobb, so this has all
the makings.of a good tournament.

Tracksters Travel
To Meet Clemson

Husky Bill McNeeley, Davidson's
top shot and discus heaver, meets
his toughest competition tomor-
row in R, W, Hudson when the
Wildcat trackmen have their fourth
dual meet, in Clemson. McNeeley,
who set a discus record for the
Florida State University track two
weeks ago, will find trouble put-
ting the shot as far as Hudson's
45 ft. 10 in, Hudson also threw the
discus 130 ft., 5 in.

Clemson barely defeated a strong
Presbyterian College squad 66%
to 64% last week, with Hudson
scoring 16 points for the winners.

In the track events, the times
run by the 'Cats in their 93-38 win
over Wofford Saturday, are faster
than those run in the Clemson-PC
meet, so the locals probably have

Davidson's mile relay team, Bob
Henry, Dick Stockton, Blake Brad-
ley, and J, V. Howell, set a new
school record at 3:42 Saturday, The
former record was 3:35,

The local cindermen leave Da-
vidson tonight around 7 o'clock and
will spend the night in Clemson,
S. C. They will return tomorrow
night after the meet. The Frosh
also have a meet with the Clem-
son freshmen tamorrow,

Take

After several very misleading
statements concerning intramural
volleyball, the column this week
will be devoted to straightening
out the situation. This years intra-
mural volleyball champions are the
Phi Delts who show on paper a
10-0 record for the year. However,

the edd. H

Baseballers Hit Road
For Return Games

By JACK EFIRD

Coach Frank Packard's squad tra-
vels into ‘South Carolina for re-
turn engagements with Clemson
and Furman today and tomorrow.
In the first series, the Cats lost to
both teams. :

For today's game with the pow-
erful Tigers from Clemson, who
have been running away with the
championship with twelve wins in
thirteen conference games, Pack-
ard plans to start pitcher Tom Cra-
ven. If’ Craven runs into difficulty,
Taylor will probably relieve.

For Saturday's game Paul East-
man will take the mound for the
Cats with Jim Smith held in readi-
ness,

Dutch Hengeveld will again take
over the short stop duties for both
games as Chuck Elliott is ineligi-
ble for games away from David-
son.

Last week the Cats were soundly
trounced by Duke 14-5. In that
game the Cat infield committed
seven errors. Tuesday the errors
were cut down to four and sub-
sequently the marginal difference
in runs was reduced to one with
South Carolina winning 5-4.

Although the three Carolina
pitchers limited Bill Rowland to
only one hit, a double, the hard
hitting outfielder came through
with a great exhibition of base
running reminiscent of Ty Cobb.
In ‘the last half of the fifth inning
Rowland walked, stole second, then
stole third, and finally stole home
on a double steal with Jerry Mor-
row, who had walked, taking sec-
ond base.

In the Duke game on Saturday
the slugging outfield of Rowland,
Morrow, and Auburn Lambeth ac-
counted for five of the Cats hits.

| lf this hitting continues aver the

weekend and if the Cats keep the
errors dawn to a minimum, the
team may come through with a vic-
tary ar two, The present season
record is two wins in eleven games.

Kittens Close Out

Tonight the Wildkitten  cinder-
men journey to Clemson for their
last scheduled meet of the season.
The meet is slated to begin at 2
p. m. tomorrow. The Kittens have
been highly successful in their two
previous meets, taking Mars Hill
74-42 and Central of Charlotte 78-
44. Bill Shipley and Tommy Breed-
‘en have been the big guns in the
two previous meets, and they will
be relied upon to bring home the
bacon tomorrow.

Breeden,and Shipley garnered 26
of the Kitten’s 78 points against
Central, and if they can pull a re-
peat performance tomorrow, chan-
ces will be good for an undefeated
season; a ratity in Davidson ath-
letics, Bob Loy and Toto William-
son will carry the brunt of the
weight division while Bill Coe and
John Holt will run the mile.

Bartonmen Return
From Northern Jag
Set For Tournament

By WALLACE ABBOTT

Our own Davidson Wildcat ten-
nis team rolled into Lexington, Va.,
today where they will take on
Washington and Lee's strong var-
sity tennis team. The Wildcats
have been having themselves quite
a trip as they journeyed through
the East playing some df the top
schools in that, part of the country.

The first meeting of the trip was
with Yale last Monday, in which
the racqueteers lost by a score of
7-2. However in their next encount-
er of the trip they fared much bet-
ter, overcoming a strong Lehigh
team by a score of 8-1.

After this afternoon's match the
team travels on to Richmond, where
they will engage the Country Club
of Virginia team. Both the Coun-
try Club team and W&L _ were
played by last year’s Southern Con-
ference Championship. team, and
they provided two close contests,
so Coach’ Barton and his boys will
have their work cut out for them
today and tomorrow,

Wade To Speak

By DICK ROPER

Invitations have been extended to more than 230 student
athletes for the first annual All-Sports Banquet Monday night,
Athletic Director Paul Seott announced today. The event, to be
held in the Chambers Building Dining Hall, will be a three-hour
affair, climaxed with a talk by Southern Conference Commis-

sioner Wallace Wade, former Duke
University football coach.

Those athletes extended invitations
have completed the season in their
respective sport or sports, and will
receive at the banquet a certificate
to this effect. Certificates will be

awarded for participation in ten
different sports (football, basket-
ball, baseball, track, golf, cross

country, swimming, tennis, wrest-
ling, and rifle teams). In addition,
several awards of special recogni-
tion will be made, including the
highly coveted Armfield Blocking
Trophy, the Merchant Trade Tro-
phy and the Tommy Peter's award.

Director Scott has invited Sever-
al sports writers and reporters to
the banquet, the first of its kind
to be held at Davidson, along with

a few other sports dignitaries. If
the event is successful—and Mr.
Scott has high hopes that it will
be—it is planned to make it an an-
nual affair, highlighting the ath-
letic scene at the College.

Professor Frontis Johnson will
be the toastmaster of the banquet,
which will include the invocation
by Dr. Pritchett, a talk by Dr. Cun-
ningham, and remarks by the coach-
es of each of the sports, The climax
of the occasion will be the talk by
Wade.

LIGHT LESSON
“What did she say when you told
her you knew practically nothing
about kissing?”
“Turn out the light
this be a lesson to you.”

and let

6 +

6c

= © —

2 C

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

| Number 20...1HE BALTIMORE ORIOLE

go for a wild }-.

a Sie man on the baseball nine, this slugger ©

o

a

“T don’t

q7?

pitch

ec

3 6c

IOC

doesn’t like to reach for ’em . . . wants it right over the plate.
And that’s the way he likes his proof of cigarette mildness! No razzle-

dazzle “quick-puff” tests for him. No one-whiff, one-puff experiments,
There’s one test, he’s discovered, that’s right down the alley!

It’s the test that proves what cigarette mildness really means.

THE SENSIBLE TEST .. . the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test,
which simply asks you to try Camels as a steady smoke—

there is a different story to be
told concerning the standings, for
‘in reality the Phi Delts have been
beaten, and that was done by the

Gams, KA’s, Betas and ATO’'s.
Final Standings

| Team Ww on a pack-after-pack, day-after-day basis.
: After you've enjoyed Camels—and only Camels—for
6 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat,
6

T for Taste), we believe you'll know why...

than any other cigarette!

ceeenue Peewee o

me NADA A

