PAGE TWO “ |

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
. COLLEGE YEAR

—
EDITOR IN CHIEF ---_--.-......--.------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ....-.. ..-.--------- JOHN LOFTIN
Associate Editors .-.- .... Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor ...-...------- ----------.------- Shelley Beard
Managing Editors ..-.~.--- Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George

McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott

City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Ficketsen
Sports Editor—Bill White

Assitant Business Manager .......------~ ~---------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager ....------.-.-..------ Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager -----.-..-------. -----~----.-- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager .--..--..------.~------------- Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager ..-.------.---.------------ «---- Bill Hart

i. T. Lilly, Faculty Advisor

a
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Workable Solution

Next week, the student body will be asked to vote
on a change in the Constitution concerning gambling. The
proposed change was read to the students in a closed
meeting last Friday, and according to the Constitution,
all proposed amendments must lie on the table for ten days
before voting takes place.

A special committee from the Student Council was
appointed to study the matter after the recent episode
in which a student was caught playing poker for money.
This committee recommended that a new section be added
to the Constitution to read as follows: ‘‘Every student
found guilty of violating Section 3 shall be punished in
accordance with the seriousness of the offense and may
be subject to dismissal from college.’’ Section 3 states:
“No student shall be guilty of gambling,” and a later
section stipulates that any student found guilty of violat-
ing this section will be dismissed from school.

We are not convinced that this new section will com-
pletely drive away all of the fog that has enshrouded
the question of gambling on the Davidson campus, but it
does seem to be as workable an answer to the problem
as will likely be found. For that reason, and for others
that we’will enumerate, the Davidsonian stands solidly
behind the Student Council in -its efforts to add _ this
new section to the Constitution.

A number of: people have attacked the proposed
change on the grounds that the new ‘section is still too
vague and not specific enough; that the Student Council
of one year may feel quite differently about gambling
from the Council of the year before. One Council might
’ interpret matching for a coke as gambling and the next
might completely overlook it as such. These opinions are
perfectly valid; however, one thing must be said in answer
to them. A look at the membership of the Student Coun-
cil for the past few years is all that is needed to bring
to light the fact that in the vast majority of the cases,
sophomores and juniors who serve on.the Council are
elected again the next,year. While this, of course, is not
always the case, it is the practice often enough to assure
the student body that at least some of their chosen repre-
sentatives are familiar with the policies of the Councils
of years before with regard to defining gambling and
punishing the offenders. Thus, it would seem to us that
the interpretation given the new Section by the Student
Council next year will set the pace for years to come.

Other students have voiced the opinion that ‘‘dis-
missal from college’’ should be deleted from the new
section. We must, however, take issue with this opinion
and urge the section’s adoption as presented to the student
body. We do not believe that gambling, as most students
interpret it, or gambling such as has been going on here
at Davidson is of such a serious nature as to be punishable
by disniissal from school; and what is more important,
the Student Council will not either unless gambling gets
out of hand. This does not preclude the possibility that
at some later date a more distasteful form of gambling
such as bookmaking might invade the campus; and for
that reason—unlikely as it may seem now—we believe it
would be wise to let the new section stand as it now reads.
Dismissal from college for being engaged in gambling of
this nature could hardly be called unreasonable or unfair.

Whether they realize it or not, the student body trusts
the judgment of the Student Council on the drinking and
cheating provisions of the Constitution. Sometimes it has
proved difficult to pin down an exact definition of just
what is drinking or cheating. It will be the same way with
the question of gambling, but there is no reason why the
Student Council can’t handle this new trust as effectively
as they have handled others in by-gone years.

If the Student Council of Davidson College had a repu-
tation for being wishy-washy, insincere, incapable, and
prejudiced, then every student could be expected to view
with skepticism the thought of giving them the power to
interpret and mete out punishment for gambling. How-
ever, thank the good Lord, such is not the ease, for the
Council at Davidson has always proved its ability and
faculty for serving with complete devotion to the Col-
lege. Everyone can rest assured that their handling of this
new power would be just as effective.

The committee of Larry Dagenhart, Ken Goodpasture,
and Ray Cunningham which studied this problem spent
many hours in trying to draw up a section that would be
workable and be acceptable to the students whom it affects.
In the interests of providing a solution to the muddied
problem which we now have and of giving Davidson a
stronger Student Council, the Davidsonian urges every
student to vote in the affirmative for this new section in
the Constitution.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

@ .
Qveen Guinevere Just Gave mE THe Swarr.

Gaga yeom College Rigs

Wood: “Here's an article in the
paper about a girl being buried in
a snowdrift for 18 hours with her
boy friend.”

Abie: “Humph! If my girl friend
and I were -buried in a snowdrift,
we'd be swimmin’ in 20 minutes.”

Reporter (interviewing  casta-
way): “And you and. this lovely
South Sea maiden lived al! alone
on this island for seven years?"

Castaway: “Well, we did for the
first year.”

“I like lectures when they're not
over my head.”

“That's the way I feel about
pigeons.”

A lady got on a bus and took
the only empty seat, next to a
harmless looking drunk. Soon she
opened a map of Manchuria and

began to study it. The drunk gazed °

at the map for awhile and finally
addressed the lady in an interested
tone:

“Sure you're on the right bus?”
he asked.

Prof. Puckett: This is the skull
of a man who was shipwrecked for
2 years on a desert island with 5
chorus girls.

Sleepy: Hlow did he die?

They -were sitting in a hammock
in the moonlight. For half an hout
not a word had broken the stillness
of the night. Finally she asked,
“If you had money what would
you do?” And he replied: “I would
travel.” He felt ber warm hand
slip into his... and then she was
gone, In his hand was a dime.

“Did. you have a good time on
that date last night?”

“No.”

“Whassamatter?” ;

“Did you ever enjoy a book with
the last chapter missing?”

An eagle-eyed mortician’ noticed
an old crone shuffling away from a
funeral service at his parlor and
asked her how old she was. “One
hundred and one,”. said the old lady.
The mortician answered gravely,
“Hardly worth going home, is it?”

A young lady oyster had just re-
turned from her first date with a
lobster and was telling her oyster
wirl friends about it.

“He was simply marvelous,” she

said. “First he looked deep into

my eyes. Then he put his arms
around me. Then he . ”

A look of horror came over her
as she clutched her throat and cried
out:

“My gawd! My pearlst”

“Did you know what the two
morons did on their honeymoon?”

“No, what?”

“Nothing.”

A Maine logger, fresh from the
big woods, was.watching a store
clerk open a package of gaily col-
ored men’s pajamas.

“What's them?” he asked.

“ajamas.”

“Pajar-as?” echoed the logger.
“What are they for?”

“Why, you wear them nights,”
the clerk explained. “Want to buy
a pair?”

“Nothing doing.” said the logger.
“I don't go nowhere nights except
to bed.”

What About Fraternities

By TOM MANN
(Last of a series of three articles)

Last week we discussed the pros and cons of

the fraternity system as a whole, coming to the

conclusion that there is enough validity in the
criticisms at least to warrant continued analy-
sis of the degree in which fraternities approxi-
mate not only their own ideals but the ideals of
the college.

This whole controversy started over a letter
condemning the administration for meddling in
fraternity affairs. And that brings us to the
subject of this article, college-fraternity rela-
tions.

The first question that comes to mind is, how
fraternities come into existence on a college
campus, and, what are the accompanying re-
sponsibilities ?

Fraternities are born on most campuses
(perhaps all, and at least at Davidson) by per-
mission of the trustees. The trustees invest in
the faculty responsibility for surveillance of all
campus organizations. Thus, in that sense, the
existence of fraternities hinges on the will of
the faculty. The chain of command, so to speak,
is: the students, the faculty, the trustees. When
the question of law is concerned, this chain
would be extended to the state, by grant of
whose power trustees are incorporated.

The question, then, of responsibilities of fra-
ternities hardly needs mentioning, it being ob-
vious that they should relate their ideals and
actions to the goals of the college. What are the
goals of the college? One is to graduate learned,
thinking, adaptable, and socially competent men.
In order to accomplish this, the college must
necessarily concern itself with as many phases
of a man’s campus life as possible, ‘which means
that if fraternities, or any other campus organi-
zations, become a hindrance to the realization
of the college’s goals, it has the right to demand
co-operation. It may even abolish organizations
inconsistent with college aims. Thus, in regard
to fraternities more specifically, the college
should concern itself with academic, character-
building, and total personality influences, to
mention a few. If hazing is regarded with ill

feeling, it can be prohibited, at least in rule. A
decision of this sort was made long ago on this
eampus and many others. A college doesn’t
want to put a man m a mold for four years in
hopes that he will come out in the right form,
but it does want to and should concern itself
with campus influences, maintain those that are
good and try to correct those that are bad. The
relation of the students to such affairs is that
they should be on their toes in trying to beat
the college to the draw.

It would seem that the problem from the
college’s point of view is not necessarily the
fraternity system in and of itself, but rather the
broader problem of the relation of fraternities
to campus social activities and social organiza-
tion. The fraternities are primarily social organ-
izations. Do they provide the best means for
organizing social activities and group fellow-
ship? If they don’t, how can you organize dif-
ferently and more effectively? If they do, how
can fraternities vest serve the purpose of social
organization and not only maintain at a mini-
mum but improve to a maximum the proper re-
lationship with the college? .

There are doubts in the minds of some and
convictions in the minds of other college offi-
cials that fraternities cannot justify their con-
tinued existence on the basis of the last question.
If we do not think the case is a strong one, let
us at least not provide material evidence to give
it strength. Let us be aware of not only the
problem on this campus but its more serious
manifestations on other campuses. It is very
eomplex and should not be passed off lightly.
While there are undisputed merits in the frater-
nity system, let us not refuse examination of
its shortcomings. The faculty and administra-
tion are concerned: with the problen—perhaps
more than we—and rather than asail them for
enforcing a hazing rule that could have been
enforced long ago, let us work co-operatively
with them in answering and doing something
concrete about the question: ‘“What to do with
and about fraternities?”

FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1951

MUSIC WITH HANSEN

By HENRY HANSEN

The other day a student asked
me just how he could form an ap-
preciation of what is generally
called classical music without tak-
ing any courses in music appre.
ciation or receiving any other form-
al instruction. To me this was flat-
tering because I am in no way an
authority on the subject and have
nothing to offer in answer but my
own experience in acquiring a taste
for serious music, My experience
in the matter has been average,
but this very mundane quality
makes it possible for me to give to
him, and to any others who are in.
terested, a loose and flexible reply
in answer to the question he asked.
Certain principles of aesthetics are
at the base of all courses which
try to foster an appreciation of ser-
jous music and, given a personal
desire, it is as easy to apply them
on a personal, non-formalized level
as it is in the classroom. It is not
necessary to understand these prin-
ciples to apply them; for that rea-
son | will make no mention of
them in this article.

What then are the steps in
learning to appreciate serious mu-
sic? First, get a record player, pref-
erably'a three speed one, but if this
is out of the question for finan-
cial reasons, then the safest and
most satisfactory purchase would
be an LP player. These are inex-
pensive and are most apt to provide
a safe and valuable imvestment.
Having purchased a _ player, we
come to the heart of the matter—
what records should I buy; what
music should. I listen to first? Gen.
erally speaking, the music which
will make the most appeal to the
uninitiated will be the music which
is short, tuneful, and not too com.
plex. Filling this list of require-
ments admirably is a host of over-
tures, short orchestral works, by
such composers as_ Rossini, Von
Suppe, Verdi, in fact, almost any
operatic composer. An excellent al.
bum would be Rossini Overtures
by Rossini, Victor-DM-1037. One
word of advice is needed. It is pos-
sible to buy hundreds of such
records, but maturing taste almost
always finds this type of music
little short of boring. For this rea-
son it would be wise to keep ac-
tual purchases of such records at
a minimum. Try to listen to some.
one else’s rather than buy your

* own.

From this type of music it is an
easy step to the romantic school
of music. This school insisted that
content was more important than
the form of any particular composi-
tion and they make easy listening.
Some composers of note in this
school are: Schumann, Schubert,
Mendelssohn, Liszt, von Weber,
Wagner and, finally, Beethoven.

From this point one might move
to the works of such composers as:
Brahms, Tchaikowsky, Franck,
Saint-Saens, Dvorak, Greig.» In
listing these composers we are
gradually moving away from com-
posers whose works are mainly
emotional to those whose works are
mainly formal and, therefore, more
difficult to understand. It is, of
course, neither necessary nor com-
pletely desirable that one follow
any such listing, including this one,
rigidly,

Next on the list. would be sneh
composers as Handel, Bach, Mo.
zart, and Haydn. These are al)
classicists and, generally speakine,
they are somewhat harder to appre-
ciate than those who have preceded
them in this list.

From these we move into the
field of contemporary composers.
Such a list might include Sibelius,
Richard Straus, Debussy, Ravel,
Stravinsky, Rachmaninoff (who js
somewhat of a reactionary and can
thus be taken earlier), Mahler,
Bruckner, Ralph Vaughan Wit-
liams, Prokofieff, Shostakovitch,
Respighi, Schonberg and many
others. From this point on you are
on your own; there are many out
of the way corners which your
own taste will want to explore and
about which no one has any right
to make any pronouncements.

Such an article as this must nec-
essarily be much too brief. In clos.
ing, there are a few more things
which should be said. First, the
purchase of a book such as the
Modern Library edition, A Guide
to Great Orchestral Music by Sig.
mund Spaeth will be of immense
help in deciding what to buy. A

_ book which will be helpful in show-

ing you how to listen is Hearing
Music by T. M. Finney. Irving
Kolodin’s New Guide to Recorded
Music will prove of value in aid.
ing you to select the recording you
want from the ones available and,
since Kolodin is a consistently
sound critic of the phonographic
medium, will be of help in develop-
ing critical standards for yourself.
Finally, if you can’t afford the nec-
essary outlays for record playing
equipment and™ the records them.
‘selves, then avail yourself of the
music which is broadcast on the
radio, played at concerts, and avail-
able for listening in such places
as the record room in. Phi Hall here
on the campus. One can do almost
as much this way as by building
a personal record library. Certain
advantages are, of course, lost, but
many are still available to anyone
who really wants to open to him-
self a field of enjoyment and en-
richment which is inexhaustible and
feomParable in what it has to of-
er.

Geech’s Goulash

‘By PAT McGEACHY

There are different responses to
the alarm clock. We shall deal with
four.

The first type awakens at the
first tinkle,, springs lightly from
bed and departs, singing, to break.
fast. That is about enough about
the first type. He is a little too
nauseating to merit further discus-
sion.

The second type is equally color-
less, but far more common, He in-
variably arises with the last dying
gasp of the faithful alarm, per-
forms his morning ablutions, in a
manner to which necessity has in.
extricably conditioned him, attends
classes, and awakens immediate -
upon entering that unholy bedlam
called, for want of a better name,
chapel.

The third type is unfortunately
affjicted with a most irritating som-
nabulistic ability. If his alarm is
placed near his head he is all right,
because he does not have to get
up to turn it off. However, if it is
placed across the room he must
either patiently await the cessation
of the un-nerving cacaphony or
emerge from his pallet, swaddled
in bedclothes and extinguish the
din. In either of these events, he
immediately returns to the blissful
State of his previous repose. Thirty
or thirty-one minutes later he wakes
up. This is not such a very good
thing as his alarm is invariably set
at 8:24. And speaking of inyaria.
bles, he is on Freshman cuts.

Perhaps the most fertile ground
for discussion may be found with
our fourth example. His is a sad
Story. But entertaining. We were
unable to interview a typical speci-
men from this group, there being
no coherent representative extant.
However, largely from curious ob-
servation, we have culled a com.
paratively accurate reproduction of
a typical morning.

Scene I,
Sound: Alarm No. 1, located on

desk. Brrrrrrr, ete.

Voice: Grnftz,

qoornt: Alarm No. 2, mingled

with No. 1. Brrdongrrdongrr.
dong, ete.

Voice: Grnftz.

2nd Voice: All right, Schmoe, if
you don’t do it, I'm gonna shut
‘em both off!

3rd Voice: (measurably irritated)
KNOCK IT OFFI!

Ist Voice: Grnftz.

Sound: Silence, as the two
alarms are cut off by the owner
of Voice No, 2.

Scene II (30——minutes |ater).
Sound: 7:45 Bell; full minute of

unbearable peals,
Ist Voice: Grnftz.

Scene ITI—(30 minutes later).
Sound: 8:15 Bell; full of same.
Ist Voice: Aw to grnftz with it.
Further sounds: Dressing, etc.,

ete.

Scene IV—(30 minutes later).
Professorial voice: Well, Good-

morning, Mr, Schmoe. Too bad

that the faculty prefers that we’

give cuts to those who arrive

more than ten minutes late, eh?
Ist Voice: Grnftz.

Had enough?

‘There are others. There is a fifth
type (you will note that we have
spelled out the number that all may
absorb its significance). He is on
a hangover from last semester, and
does not get up at all. When he
finally awakens he will discover
that his name has been carefully
eradicated from the college rolls by’
the executive committee. But he
isn’t even worth a grnftz.

There is also a moral to this deal,
but we have no Greek type so we
can't print it. As a matter of fact
they wouldn't let us print it any-
way. As a matter of fact, since we
are writing this at 2:00 a. m., they
probably won't print any of it. No
tears please.

Grnftz?
