PAGE FOUR

THE

DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1952

Why We're Voting For Ike

Today America finds itself at the crossroads of political
destiny. Our future with the Democrats has been lucidly mani-
fested by their twenty years of aggrandizement of federal power
at the expense of state and local governments: by their rising
taxes; by their deficit financing, uneconomical government
spending, and inflation: by their corruption in government:
and by their encroachments on free enterprise by federal bureau-
cracy. On the other hand. the Republicans under the leadership
of General Eisenhower have committed themselves to a Spartan
frugality, to sane government spending and taxation, to honesty
and integrity in government. to a decentralization of federal
power with an emphasis on local government. and toa policy of
free enterprise without destruction of individual initiative and
liberty. Any political party in power for twenty years tends to
become narrow. rigid, dependent on precedent, lacking in initia-
tive and resourcefulness to carry out the true will of the people—
in short, the Democrats are responsible for federal bureaucracy
with a capital "B.” The time for a change not only involves the
candidates and the political parties, but moreover a permutation
from the tenor of federal government propagated by the Demo-
crats in the last twenty years.

General Eisenhower and the Republican Party have con-
sistently favored a decrease in government spending and taxation.
and the Republican Eightieth Congress elucidates this fact. The
Republican Congress cut the Truman budgets over $6 billion:
reduced the national debt $7 billion: and balanced the Federal
budget for the first time in seventeen years with the largest sur-
plus in history, $8.4 billion. But what about taxes? The same
Republican Congress reduced taxes $4.8 billion per year, took
7.4 million taxpayers off tax rolls, and cut taxes for 47 mil-
lion others. The Republicans. when given the opportunity, have
proven that they can reduce taxes and balance the budget. a feat
the Democrats are not concerned with. What may seem like
prosperity by the Democrats’ standard of value is, in actuality.
the sinister shadow of inflation.

On the other hand. the Truman administration alone has
spent $319 billion and the Federal Government takes one dol-
lar out of every four for taxes. The result of the Democrat
administrations has been a cut in half of the value of your dol-
lar, caused by rampant inflation. soaring prices and wages with
a decrease in the standard of living in the past two years. Gov-
ernor Stevenson offers no abatement of New Deal-Fair Deal
policies. which is illustrated by his administration as Governot
of Illinois. Governor Stevenson collected $60 miillion more taxes
than his Republican predecessors: spent a Republican surplus of
$150 million: put Illinois in the red: spent $2 million a month
more than he took in: and carried on. deficit spending of more
than $70 million in three years. These are the records of two
administrations. that of Governor Stevenson and President Tru-
man, with their appalling figures of taxation, spending, and
deficits, with their emphasis on big government. and with their
‘synonymous policies of tax, tax. tax, and spend, spend spend!
Are we to elect Governor Stevenson who supports the Truman
Administration tooth and nail? Are Americans naive enough
to elect a candidate who contends to alleviate the problems of our
government by a continuation of the policies that created in-
flation. insecurity. war and 4 decrease in our standard of living?

The Democrat's unsuccessful foreign policy has created or.
at the very least, has directly. influenced most of the domestic
problems. for the defense expenditures at home and abroad con-
sumed 68 per cent of the $80-billion Federal budget. In 1949
a formal warning from the House Republicans was issued show-
ing how the Democrats invited disaster when they failed to
properly arm South Koreans and withdrew our troops from
Korea in 1949, and predicted that the Communists might move
in and thereby imperil Japan and the entire Far East. Repub-
licans pointed out that the Democrats invited war in Korea when
Secretary of State Acheson publicly announced that Korea was
outside our defensive zone in the Pacific. The Democrats’ foreign
policy has been inconsistent and wavering. The Democrat lead-
ership appeased ac Yalta, conceded at Potsdam. faltered at Paris.
bungled in China, and diminished our best hopes of securing
peace. Dwight Eisenhower knew the answers when he directed
the unprecedented invasion of Europe. No hesitation, no con-
‘fusion, no half-hearted measures bungled the achievement of
his plan. No offer of appeasement gave the enemy a chance to
outmaneuver, our position or entangle us in a costly deadlock.
Which of the candidates. Eisenhower or Stevenson, would you
want to represent the United States in a meeting with Stalin?
Which candidate would Stalin fear and respect the most? Which
man has had the most experience with foreign policy in general
and Soviet tactics in particular, and which man knows the best
methods with which to kill the disease of war and communism?

The true test of a statesman is his ability to change a
nation from what it is to what it ought to Be. General Eisen-
hower can give this country the change it needs most—the
courage to act confidently, effectively and constructively to pre-
vent another World War, and the determination to maintain an
honest, efficient government founded on security. General Eisen-
hower is neither a militarist nor an isolationist, as Truman and
Stevenson have ambiguously labeled him: but the Republican
candidate is for a firm. not a haphazard, foreign policy within
our economy’s limits and on the principle of pay-as-you-go. His
administrative and organizing experiences have been tested as ef-
ficient and effective. He represents unity, honesty and improve-
ment. General Eisenhower believes in persuasion and education,
sustained ‘by statutes defining rights, as the true American way
rather than by compulsion, which the Democrats have so avidly
used in such problems as Civil Rights and their compulsory-
health-insurance scheme. We want a President who can chal-
lenge Americans to a higher concept of citizenship, a no deal
man, and a statesman and candidate who is not committed to a
policy of failure at home and abroad. For these reasons, our
vote shall go to a friend of truth. a statesman Joyal in action,
unclouded in honor—Dwight David Eisenhower. W.

=

Ay

Our Candidates Ike and Dick;

They Are

Dwight D. Eisenhower was born
in .Denison, Texas, on October 14,
1890. Two years later the family
moved to Abilene, Kansas. To help
the family’s meagre income, the
six Eisenhower boys worked after
school at odd jobs. In 1909 Ike
graduated from high school with
a very good scholastic and ath-
letic record.

In 1911 Eisenhower was ap-
pointed to West Point by Repub-
NIXON

Richard N. Nixon was born in
Yerba Linda, California; on Jan-
uary 9, 1913, the son of Quaker
parents. An ardent follower of
sports, he was on the football squad
at Whittier College. Nixon attended
Duke Law School and practiced
law for five years before joining

Qualified To Lead

lican Senator J. L. Bristow and
graduated in 1915 in the upper
third of his class. He went to Fort
Sam Houston, Texas, where he met
Mamie Geneva Doud whom he mar-
ried in 1915,

Eisenhower's Army career is
marked by a series of assignments
at various posts and in a wide range
of duties. By mid-year 1942 he
had risen to the rank of Lt. General,
and was commanding General,
European Theater. On November

the Navy in August, 1942. He holds
two battle stars for service in the
South Pacific and two commenda-
tions.

Nixon married the former Pa-
tricia Ryan in 1940 and they have
two daughters. Nixon's political
career began when he was selected
by a citizen’s committee in the old

A PROFESSOR’S VIEW:

19, 1945, General Eisenshower suc-
ceeded General Marshall as Chief
of Staff. From June 7, 1948, until
December, 1950, he was President
of Columbia University. On De-
cember 36, 1950, he became Su-
preme Allied Commander, Europe.
A. climax of the confidence which
his command restored to Europe
came on February 22, 1952, when
NATO unanimously agreed to
join in a full-fledged European de-
fense pact. ‘

12th Congressional District as
their choice to unseat the five-
term, New Dealer, Congressman
Jerry Voohis. In 1950 he defeated
Helen Gahagan Douglas by 700,-

000 votes for the post of junior

Senator from California.
—T.C.

A TALK WITH IKE

Have you ever talked personal-

ly to General Eisenhower? Has he |v

ever called you by name and in-
troduced you to “my wife Mamie?”
Has he ever considered an invita-
tion to dine at your home, called
your folks, and parted, saying “be
sure to look me up when I come
to Charlotte.”

Only one Davidson student can
answer “yes” to all these ques-
tions. Steve Stewart's chance meet-
ing with the presidential candidate
showed him a completely down-to-
earth personage with a personality
that radiates warmth and sincere-
ty. The meeting came about in this
manner:

Steve was in New York over this
past Labor Day weekend when a
calamity gripped him that has
tapped every college boy on the

shoulder’ at one time or another
4. . he was out of money. He
couldn't write a check as it was
Sunday and the next day was La-
bor Day, a bank holiday. So Steve
started walking from his hotel on
75th Street to his father’s office
on Ist Street, to put the bite on
him. As he passed the Washing-
ton Arch he noted a small crowd
and on a closer look saw Cardinal

‘Spellman blessing the gathering.

Steve walked on.

A. few. blocks away Steve
thought he saw a familiar pair
window-shopping. Steve approach.
ed the gentleman and said, “Par-
don me sir, but aren’t you General
Eisenhower?”

The General introduced himself
and his wife, then chatted with
Steve for ten or so minutes. The

General was on his way to an audi-
ence with the Cardinal, saw he was.
fifteen minutes early, so got out
of his cab a few blocks from the
meeting place to leisurely walk the
remaining distance. When he found
out that Steve was from Richmond
he realized his party would be
there in a few weeks and invited
Steve to come to one of the re-
ceptions. The Generat took Steve's
phone number and parted with
“Steve, it certainly has been nice
talking to someone who's not a
politician and who's from the
South.”

Steve, like so many other people,
was impressed with the General's
personality. “If he could talk to
every voter for a few minutes like
he did with me, he’d win by a land-
slide —M.G.M.

THE REPUBLICAN PARTY —
ITS HISTORY, RECORD, AND AIMS

The Republican Party was or-
ganized almost a century ago in
a ‘spontaneous revolt against the
spread of slavery. It has remained
the party of human freedom and
equal justice, and has become the
political expression of American

‘lenterprise and self-reliance.

The first Republican President,
Abraham Lincoln, faced the pri-
mary task of preserving the Union,
“that government of the people, by
the people and for the people shall
not perish from the earth.” Suc-
cessive Republican administrations
built the weak and: divided nation
into a great power commanding the
world’s respect.

Republican Presidents occupied
the White House more than three-
fourths of the time from 1861 to
1931, a period of unparalleled
growth.

Lincoln once said that the legiti-
mate object of government “is to
do for a community of people what-
ever they need to have done, but
cannot do at‘all, or cannot so well
do, for themselves, in their sepa-
rate and individual capaciies.’’ He

‘added, “In all that the people can

individually do as well for them-
selves, government ought not to
interfere.” Republican policy has
always been guided by this simple
formula. In recent years the party
has fought vigorously against the
concentration of power and the
growing paternalism and bureau-
cracy in Washington.

Republican Congresses and Re-
publican Presidents established the
solid foundation on which Ameri-
can progress was achieved. Re-
publicans founded the national

The Men, The Issues, The Parties

By FREDERICK MORTON

Knowing well that Dr. “D" will
espouse ably the “partisan” point
of view, even if duc in ‘small meas-
ure to some remote degree of kin-
ship with the Democratic candidate
for President, I shall state briefly
the method by which I have been
led to the conclusions which fol-
low. It seems to me that the can-
didates as men, the issues, and the
parties of each political faith must
be examined. Each should add
something to understanding (or un-
derstandable confusion), and par-
ticularly significant are the rela-
tionships and associations among
all. three. Available for examina-
tion are the reported words, deeds,
promises, platforms, voting rec-
ords, ete,

THE MEN.

In Gov. Stevenson I see a man
‘whose experience must be appraised
on the basis of certain rather spe-
cialized World War II civilian
jobs, limited experience with the
State Department, and the gover-
norship of the State of IIlinois.
1 know little of his work prior to
the governorship other than that
he is reputed to have done a good
job of assigned tasks, although it
was during this period that he
came to know Alger Hiss and later
testified to Hiss’ good character
(good, but not very good, said Ste-
venson), which so far Stevenson
has not seen fit to repudiate.
There have been substantial ex-
posures of graft (some by the Gov-
ernor himself) among his own ap-
pointees in the state administration,
and there is a record of close rela-
tionships with Jacob Arvey and an

unsavory Democratic Chicago po- |

litical machine, Gov. Stevenson has
NO military experience. Finally,
far from repudiating the record of
the present national administration,
he has repeatedly stated that this
is the record on. which the Demo-
cratic party must go to. the people.

In Gen. Eisenhower I see a man

whose training and experience is
primarily military. His education
and background in economics and
politics are ‘rudimentary and of a
late date. Yet, he is committed to
no one. Here must be pointed out
the difference between unifying di-
verse clements of the same general
philosophy as Eisenhower did in
the cases of Dewey and Taft, and
the obviously expedient attempts
of the Stevenson-Truman-Harri-
man-Sparkman lineup to appeal to
all of the highly organized politi-
cal, racial, and religious minorities
on a straight ‘“‘trade-for-votes”
basis. The General is a unifier and,
not a setter of class against class.
His fundamental beliefs in the su-
preme worth of the individual and
the need for guaranteeing oppor-
tunity for self expression and de-
velopment stand out brightly
against the cynical demand of our
times for security to which the
Democrats so basely appeal. Fi-
nally, as a military man of broad
experience he will stand the coun-
try in good stead in a period such
as the current one and will be even
more valuable in the event of alt
out war.

THE ISSUES

1) Foreign Policy—In the wes-
tern world since 1945 we have
watched almost passively the lights
of freedom blink out in Yugosla-
iva, Albania, Bulgaria, Romania,
Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Austria,
Poland, Lithunia, Latvia, Estonia
and Eastern Germany. We finally
drew the line in Greece. In the
east, the disappearance of China
behind the Iron Curtain and the
Korean War followed our pulling
out the plug of American support
from Chiang Kai Chek and Na-
tionalist China as surely as day
followed night. We have at best
perhaps purchased a breathing
spell with our foreign policy. 2)

General economic prosperity—The

war increased the volume of money

and level of productivity in the
economy. For anyone who ‘will
think further than just counting
the dollars of his income every
month, and reduce them by the
increases in prices, higher taxes,
the spread of which is a tribute to
the ingenuity of man, and the share
of the public debt for which we
haven't been taxed yet, this illu-
sory prosperity becomes more ap-
parent than real. 3) Labor rela-
tions—The major contribution in
this field, the Taft-Hartley Act,
belongs to the Republicans and
was bitterly opposed (and still is)
by the Democrats at every step
of the way. Without the Taft-Hart.
ley Act we would presumably stilt
be operating under the old Wag-
ner Act which guaranteed union
domination of the business econ-
omy. Even under the Taft-Hartley
Actor rather around it—the Ad-
ministration has conducted labor
relations and general industrial re-
lations policies directly between
the President and the leaders of
organized labor in and out of the
side door of the White House. This
door has always been open to
them, and the result has been one-
sided federally-forced bargaining
agreements. 4 and 5) Agriculture—
There appear to be no major dif-
ferences between the objectives of
the General and the Governor.
States rights ve. federal powers—
Today the Republicans are the
states-rights party while the Dem-
ocrats seek to expand federal pow-
ers in the areas of civil rights,
health and medicine, aid to educa-
tion, public power and tidelands
oil reserves. 6) Government finance
and fiscal policy—Sound finance
for the Democratic party means
tax and spend and elect; tax to re-
distribute wealth from the “haves”
to the “have-nots;” spend for what-
ever programs seem socially de-
sirable or politically expedient;
and, the electing follows quite na-
turally (and may well again since
no one beats Santa Claus). Query

Can we spend our way out of the
next depression? If so, then how
about the one after that? Can any-
one believe that a Democratic Con-
gress will ever again balance the
Federal budget? 7) Government ef-
ficiency and morality—the presént
administration is a proven bone-
head here; of the present two can-
didates one offers no record for

‘inspection and the other offers a

poor one.

THE PARTIES

The Democrats are a party of
large city political machines, i.e.,
Arvey, Hague, Tammany, Pender-
gast, etc.; highly organized, vocal,
aggressive minority groups; greater
Federal powers jn the areas of civil
rights, education, healtty and medi-
cine, taxing and spending, and so-
cial security; and, advocates of a
system of administrative law
whereby a single agency (Federal
Trade Commission, etc.) is en-
forcer of the law, prosecutor, -trier
of fact and law (jury and judge),
reviewer of the case, and adviser
on the writing and rewriting of
the statutes which they themselves
enforce. Finally the Democratic
party in this area is Hamilton C.
Jones.

The Republicans are a party fa-
voring close scrutiny of any fur-
ther extension of powers to the
Federal government; sound eco.
nomic policies such as an honora-
ble recognition of the Federal debt,

‘lower taxes to increase incentive

and less Federal spending more ef-
ficiently done; and, less guaranteed
work and pay but greater guaran-
tees of opportunity to work and
produce.

Though the Democratic party was
the party of my fathers, as of to-
day, it ts not mine. Economically,
politically and socially the South
needs two vigorous political parties.
General Eisenhower and the Re-
publicans are my choices.

banking system, got rid of the
Civil War greenbacks, and saved
the nation from the “free-silver”
proposals of that erratic orator,
William Jennings Bryan. In 1900
they fixed the country firmly on.a
gold basis which remained un-
succeeded in cheapening the dollar
more than thirty years later.

As the country grew, new agen-
cies were created by Republican
Congresses to do things that the
people couldn't: do for themselves.

The Department of Agriculture and,

various of its constituent bureaus
were established to provide the
farmer with research on better
methods of production and to pro-
more cooperative marketing. Under
the leadership of President Theo-
dore Roosevelt, programs were
launched to conserve the country’s
forests and to reclaim dry lands
for farming. —

The expansion of industry, en-
couraged in many ways by Repub-
lican administrations, created more
and more jobs at rising pay scales.
Republican Congresses adopted nu-
merous laws to protect the rights
of working men and women and
to bring about fairness and har-
mony in their relations with their
employers. Republicans established
both the Department of La-
bor and the Department of Com-
merce. The Sherman Anti-Trust
Act, passed in 1890 to prevent mo-
nopoly and assure competition, has

since been called “the Magna Car-
ta” of Labor, agriculture and in-
dustry.”

Republican contributions to ef-
ficient government have included
the national budget system; the
General Accounting Office which
audits government accounts for
Congress; the Civil Service Act of
1883, whith introduced the merit
system; and the Classification Act
of 1923, which gave federal per-
sonnel equal pay for equal work.

In dealing with foreign powers,
Republican Presidents insisted
firmly on the protection of Ameri-
can interests, and on independence
of action. They enforced the Mon-
roe Doctrine, keeping Latin
America free from European inter-
ference. After Lincoln, only one
war, the brief conflict with Spain,
occurred in a Republican Admin-
istration.

Throughout its history, the Re-
publican Party has stood for those.
issues and ideals which promote
integrity and economy in govern-
ment, for individual enterprise, for..
human liberty and dignity. In these
times, it is freedom from govern-
ment domination. Men must be.
neither the property of other men
nor the property of the state. To-
day, the Republican Party stands
for and is fighting for those ideals
upon which this great nation was

established.—T.C.

A THREE ACT PLAY:

DR. TRUMAN AND
MR. STEVENSON

ACT I.
SCENE—Demagogue Dungeon at Corruption Corner.

HARRY: Invective, Insult, Red Herring is my campaign,
1! honor, honesty, truth I do disdain,
On you old Ike fie, fie, fie!
Stir my mud well and Add-A-Liel
Enter Adlai

ADLAI: Harry, how do you do it? Twenty-two major scandals in the
Executive Department alone! In my three years as Gover-
nor I've only had fourteen food inspectors caught for bribe-
taking in the horse-meat scandal; the cigarette tax fraud;
my personal assistant and campaign manager involved in a
race track stock deal who resigned because of ill health with
a new Cadillac, $25,000, and my blessings; and not to men-
tion several other scandals.

HARRY: He's my boy that Adlai,

Your scandals in Washington will multiply,
Blame the people as the cause,
The fools know naught but to give applause.

ACT Il,

SCENE—Spendthrift Sanatarium near Taxation Tavern
Enter Adlai
ADLAI Although Tve been the most expensive governor in Illinois’
history, spoke economy while boosting the payrolls, and hired
2,500 more workers, my spending 1s peanuts as compared with
yours. More lessons, master! How do you add $28 million
every 24 hours to the public debt, and how did you and
Franklin spend 6 times what our government cost in the

preceding 144 years?

HARRY: Spending and taxes are the secrets to my plan,
One dollar out of four I tax per man,
Sixty million dollars you increased taxation,
With my advice you'll ruin the nation,

ACT III.

SCENE—Contradiction Cavern.
Enter Adlai

ADLAI:

“If I get nominated I'll shoot myself.” How could I ever

equal Harry’s record! I wish Alger were here, or just Wilson
or Arthur. I think I'll favor amending the Taft-Hartley Act.

(One month later)

ADLAI:

I'm the captain of my ship, the master of my soul. Where is

Harry? Did he telf me to favor repealing the Taft-Hartley?
I think that’s right because that’s what Philip and John L.
said. Oh! Where is Harry! Now I’m to push compulsory
health-insurance, UMT, anti-poll tax, and federal aid to edu:
cation, compulsory FEPC, anti-lynch bill, the Brannan Plan,
and anti-truse legislation. Where is Harry? I fear I’ve for-

gotten one!

. Enter Harry
HARRY: Your platform is complete my faithful protege,
This loyal jester never will my policies betray,
Continue with bureaucracy and follow Dean too,
Depression and World War will thereafter soon ensue?

-~BOB WALKER,
