PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEBKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF ...............0.ccccee BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ....................0.. GOL
Associate Editors -.........-.... Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,
George McMurray
Managing Editors .......... Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,
John Ottley

Art Editor—Don Mahy Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager ..........--.-...--. Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager ......-..~-.-2 22. cewecenccene Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager ......-...--..2--ce-ceeewcc enon Bob Poston
Collection Manager ...........-nce-e.ecececewceecnn Bilt Minter

Subscriptions Manager ........-...---.-<-~---.-+ Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Several Good Lessons Learned
From S-Day Financial Worry

“S” stood for several things last Saturday, but among them
was not success.

The Senior Class-Scabbard and Blade joint dance venture
left its sponsors $150.00 in the hole and proved one or two
things to those who would attempt a similar weekend in the
future.

Of course, hindsight has that wonderful characteristic of
experience that foresight doesn’t carry, but even beforehand we
had our doubts about the afternoon tea dance. The cost of the
brief, sparsely attended afternoon affair was almost equal to the
evening hop, yet how many folks would have refused to buy
tickets merely because an afternoon dance had not been included.
The average fellow buys his ticket for the dance that night, and
figures the afternoon functions—like concerts—thrown in to
fill any spare time.

A joint sponsorship of one dance, then, by the Senior Class
and Scabbard and Blade would probably have seen the thing pay
for itself, with the possibility of a smail profit.

Another lesson learned was that there's not the “need” for
a school-wide social function during the Mid-Winter-Spring
Frolics gap that planners had thought would assure their dance’s
success. Possibly the time of year chosen was wrong. Maybe it
would have gone over better during a winter lull, but we can’t
off hand think of a more opportune time than the date picked
for S-Day. One concludes, then, that three school dances, padded
by fraternity functions and his own weekend dating excursions,
satisfies the social life of the Davidson man.

A final lesson is being learned by the Senior Class, who will
be assessed about one buck per. In voting for the dance, they
typically pulled out the railroad throttle and voted without a
single dissenting ‘‘no’’ for the dance. Maybe they'll think twice
now, before getting themselves in even one dollar's worth.

He’s Putting Queens on the Map
For The First Time, Underlined

So that the wise guy and Scripts ‘n Pranks’ space fillers
may have their little crack, we'll concede that there may be a
pig sty, Kentucky or Tennessee or some place, but as fare as we
are concerned Queens College is currently being put on the map
for the first time and underlined so that folks in the Southland
will cease to wonder what and where the school is.

And there’s a reason for it—Dr, Charlton C. Jernigan.

The man with literally bright ideas for an erstwhile drab
institution is blowing like a fresh breeze through the musty.
confining halls of our sister school. His first move naturally
made an impression on a few of our lot with the construction of
a stylish and adequate snack and dance hangout for on the campus
dating. Elimination of the quarter-century outmoded rules and
hours has brought many a round of applause from both ends of
the line.

But those things we like because they directly benefit us.
It’s more than that. Pick up the newspapers—in Charlotte or in
many other of the state's leading cities—and you're apt to run
into publicity on our Old Reliables out on Selwyn Avenue. The
same is true through the other mediums, too. Like we say, they’re
putting the old girl on the map.

It took spring with its changes and its turning to a young
man’s fancy for us to realize that the old somber, grey cloak is
actually being shed for a bright, attractive, young girl's gown.
With a sister a guy's apt to be too teasingly critical, but when
she begins to grow up and the Old Man treats her as such, you
just can’t help but sit up and take notice.

An Opportunity Being Provided
To Begin 1 of 365 With Christ

Sunday morning at sunrise the Westminster Fellowship will
undertake what we sincerely hope and pray will become an
annual service at Davidson, an Easter Sunrise Service.

To own up to the facts, the average Davidsonian who
remainds on campus over 2 weekend does not spend his time in
church. It is better spent in rack time, on the tennis courts, or
studying. He, then, will be hard to rouse at sunrise on Easter
or any other morning.

Easter a particular day? Yes. It is the most glorious ob-
servance of the Christian faith. No, worship on Easter carries
no bargain blessings or anything of that sort, but to every Chris-
tian it should be the renewing of his faith and indebtedness to
the Lord who died to redeem him.

The opportunity, at least, is being provided—at the least,
an opportunity to begin one day out of 365 with Christ.

THE DAV

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Student Body Eats Humber Pie,
Emerges Still Unnourished

A comment that reached this re-
porter after the final speech in this
week’s “Which Way Peace?” forum
went something like this: “I’m not
a pacifist, an interventionist, nor 3
world federalist. Yet I agree with
everything these men said, -and I
still don’t know how we can in-
sure peace.” With the possible ex-
ception of Mr. Humber’s remarks
on World Federation, the per-
plexed quotee was about right.

Excellent in theory, the forum,
(called the Review Week Special
in less reverent quarters) broke
down in practice. What were its
avowed purposes? As listed in the
program, they were (a) to present
different attitudes that are held to-
ward World Peace, (b) to give the
student a deeper understanding of
the principies involved in War and
Peace, (c) to present the different
efforts that are being made in this
country to achieve World Peace.

Correspondingly, we have drawn
these conclusions: (a) they all want
peace. As for (b), Mr. Libby, the
pacifist, relies on, as a principle of
peace, something or other that he
forgot to mention; General Gins-
burgh, on a cooperative stalemate;
and Mr, Humber, on cooperative
coercion. In (ec), the different ef-
forts are being made toward World
Peace (always capitalized, by the
way to add Dignity and Meaning),
were much Ilke the rules of Love
and War, implied rather than ex-
plicit. Mr. Libby made veiled al-
lusions to countless member or-
ganizations of the National Council
for the Prevention of War. He did
not, of course, name any of these,
fearful that we might join one of
them. He quite definitely stated
that the NCPW has a working
staff of fifty, and implied that they
do something, though he didn’t hap-
pen to mention just what.

As for General Ginsburgh, there
was something about the way he
looked that told you his organiza-

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

tion was working for Peace. He
and his followers, the Armed Serv-
ices, have left no doubt as to where
they stand on this military pre-
paredness stuff. Nevertheless, one
had to take it for granted that they
left no doubt.

Mr. Humber, I'm afraid, took too
much for granted when he assumed
that all eight hundred listeners were
well acquainted with the World
Federalism movement, the officers
of the organization and the United
World Federalist publications. This
information can easily be secured
in any library that boasts either
the UWF bulletin or President
Cord Meyer's Peace or Anarchy.
But how many have secured it? Or
have had any pressing reason to do
so? Mr. Humber should not be so
wrapped up in his travel and work
among well-informed legislators
and executives that he neglects to
indoctrinate the average audience
on the major principles of the
United World Federalists.

However, though ovr above-
quoted friend could agree and not
be a pacifist or an interventionist
(would not military preparednessist
be more accurate?) he would have
a hard time nodding his head at
everything Mr. Humber urged and
not have a few faint world federa-
tion stirrings in him. Epigrammati-
cally a gold mine, Humber’s taik
showed the enthusiasm and ap-
parent logic that have won resolu-
tions from fifteen state legislatures
advocating the world federation
principle, while rallying great sup-
port in several others.

Speaking of the “watershed of his-
tory,” he insisted that the forces of
today are reversing the forces and
the heritage of yesterday. “Science
has scrambled the eggs of nations
and has made an omelet of us all,”
he said, adding that, like any ome-
let, we cannot be divided and set
up as we were. The one object must
be, therefore, World Peace. :

IDSONIAN

Mr, Humber spoke on a univer-
eal level. “Uniimited nationalism,”
he predicted, “is mortgaging this
civilization . . . The world has
buried lesser institutions . . . why
not bury war?” When the student
body was certain that the world is
in a fix, and chafing at the bit
to do something about it Right
Then and There, Humber raised his
voice ahd pointed out two alterna-
tives: (1) Diplomacy, which doesn’t
work because there were ten thou-
sand world treaties in 1930 and we
still had World War II and (2)
World Federalism, which must
work, because it hasn’t been tried
and everything else has failed. Be-
sides, to quote another Humber-
gram, “Law enforcement ends in
the courts, diplomacy, on the bat-
tlefields.”

Mr. Humber presented the most
logical of the three platforms, that
of individual punishment for in-
dividual crimes through world law.
However, like Mr. Libby and Gen-
eral Ginsburgh, he left many rami-
fications ignored, many details
skimmed over, and many minds
perplexed and/or unaffected. This
ceturns us to the original point:
were the chapel talks worth the
time? I should say not, but I
should insist, as before, that the
theory behind them was good.
Despite a jam-packed YMCA on
Wednesday night, there were sev-
eral students that didn’t make the
discussion, for good and poor rea-
sons.

However, this was potentially
the most effective of the sessions,
since it was the one place where
those ramifications and details
could be brought out, and those
minds made less perplexed. An
answer? It is this reporter's view
that if more of that Y lounge at-
mosphere were brought into chapel,
there would be more in the Y
lounge at night. Considering the

(Continued On Page Four)

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX:

NAT DANIEL:

For centuries the religions of
the world have recognized the
coming of Spring as a time of
joy, bringing a new life and
vigor to a nature still sluggish
from the slumber and confine-
ment of the winter months. It is
fitting, therefore that we Chris-
tians should celebrate the resur-
rection of Christ in the Spring,
for as the Spring brings a re-
newal of life and action to the
world in which we live, so
should the Spirit of Easter
serve as an inspiration for re-
newal and rededication of our
spirits in the work delegated to
us by our resurrected Lord.
But today it would seem that
Americans have forgotten about
Christ, and a cross, and an empty
tomb, and have shoved him into
the past as a legendary figure who
lived a long time ago. Easter has
become nothing more than the great
American Spring Fashion Show.

In 1947 Time asked college presi-
dents what they wanted most to
know about their graduates. They
sent in more than 800 suggestions.

After a committee of experts had
framed questions to bring out the
answers to these and other points,
we prepared a 133-page question-
naire and mailed it to graduates
from the octogenarian class of
1884 to the fledgling class of 1947.

The book describes what has hap-
pened to 9,064 graduates of more
than 1,000 colleges, quoting gener-
ously from their letters, organizing
the results of a detailed survey and
presenting a mass biography of the
the whole group.

Some Random Notes From
“They Went To College”

The majority of the graduates
credit their college training for sub-
stantial help in their occupations.

Asked, “Would you say that your
college courses have helped a lot,
helped some, or none in your pres-
ent occupation?” 70 per cent felt
they had helped a lot, and only 2
per cent said they had not helped
at all. Men are more satisfied with
the results of their college training
than women, but still almost two-
thirds of the college women did
feel that college had been helpful
to them.

When the graduates were asked
to rate their education in more gen-
eral terms, they still expressed sat-
isfaction with their college courses.
If they had to do it all over again,
98 per cent would again go to col-
lege, 84 per cent would select the
same college, while 14 per cent
would choose a different institution.
The vast majority would repeat
their major.

In one respect at least, college
graduates judge the value of their
education by their present salaries,
for when asked whether they re-
gretted their choice of major, the
people who specialized in college
were more pleased with their selec-
tion than those who did not spe-
cialize. The latter group would ex-
change at least part of their educa-
tion for greater vocational training.
Nevertheless, even those who most
regretted their choice of subjects
believe they were wise to matricu-
late.

Jewish graduates find and hold

Dole Applauded Why No Alternative Views on Recent Forum?

By Duke Doctor

Dr. John R. Cunninghars
Davidson College
Davidson, N. C.

Dear Dr. Cunningham:

It was with pleasure that we read
the news item in regard Bill Dole
coming to Davidon as head football
coach. We feel that both parties
should be congratulated.

It has been my privilege to know
Bill over a period of years, as we
have frequently seen athletes who
were playing under his jurisdiction.
He has always shown the most sin-
cere interest in the boys’ welfare,
and has always put the individual
above the game. Were either of my
two sons to play football, it would
be a pleasure to know that they

would be under the influence of
1 (Continued

On Page Pour)

To the Forum Committee Which
Brought Us the Forum on
“Which Way Peace”:

It seems to me that this com-
mittee made the same mistake that
all the other forum committees be-
fore them have made. They neg-
lected the selection of a speaker
for the remaining alternative.

There was no speaker for the
view that the only way to peace
is through preventative war. This
is just as important a view as the
other three presenged in the forum,
and there are some mighty good
arguments for it.

Here are some of my personal
ideas on the subject. ,

Marx has stated that Capitalism
will be destroyed; Lenin and Sta-
lin have made statements which
indicates that the Communists in-
tend to bring about this destruc-

two societies cannot exist side by
side, Is this not reason enough to
think that there will eventually be
war? .

Ie is highly likely that the nation
which strikes first and hardest will
emerge the victor. The longer the
war is delayed the more horrible it
will become. Even now our cities
and our citizens would feel the
retaliation of the enemy were we to
strike, but the end result could be
to rid the world of one of the
greatest menaces it has yet faced.

The question of morals is the best
argument against preventative war,
but even this will fail to prevent the
final War. When the existence of
mankind is at state, when the ques-
tion is which of the societies will
survive, preventative war can be
justified. Self preservation is a
strong force. This is a case of

tion; high officials in the Russian | self preservation.

government have stated that the

There is much talk of peace in

the world, but peace is a mean-
ingless word without another, more
important, word. That word is
Freedom. Sure, we can have peace,
a Russian peace, in which people
are peaceful out of fear; slaves can
have peace as long as they obey
their masters. Is this the kind of
peace YOU want? As for me, I
would rather die fighting for free-
dom than live in slavery.

Until something drastic occurs to
bring about an air of cooperation
between the Communists and our-
selves, until the Communists
change their desire to destroy Capi-
talism, until the entire nature of
mankind itself changes, I see no
hope for the peaceful coexistence of
the communistic and capitalistic
societies on this earth. Which one
will survive the next war? The one
that strikes first—that must be the

""" D. A. MATTHEWS.

Christ and his resurrection have
been forgotten, and the celebration
of Easter has become a festival
rather than a period of worshipful
thanks for God’s greatest gift to
mankind—everlasting life. We will
attend Church on Easter Sunday,
more often than not to admire the
latest Parisian creations adorning
the heads of the better dressed
women in the congregation, many
of whom haven't been to church
since last Easter. In the rat race for
commercial gain, and the competi-
tion of material exhibitionism, we
have ceased to worship a God of
infinite love, and bow down to the
gods of Fashion, Decoration, and
Material Wealth which has made
their success possible. Christ has
been left out of Easter, and with-
out. His presence it becomes noth-
ing more than a,sales slogan for
the best shops in town.
In the life of Christ there are
four elements which point him

Why They Went To College:
Time Survey Shows College Graduates
Fare Better, Earn More Than Average Person

good jobs more consistently than

do Protestants, earn better salaries
on the average. The Catholics on
the other hand have not been “re-

warded” as richly in terms of jobs

and incomes as cither the Jews or
the Protestants. The earnings of
Negro college graduates are way
below all others (but the Negro

does not fay the blame for this at

the door of education).
The figures regarding income
earned by college graduates show

beyond any question that graduates
who had to earn part or all of their
coliege expenses have lower in-
comes than do people who were
supported during college. Although
the self-help students earn con-
siderably more than the national
average, their average earnings are
substantially below those of grad-
uates whose way was paid.

The success achieved after grad-

uation apparently bears some re-
lation to grades earned in colleges
but little or no relation to the de-
gree of participation in extra-curri-
cular activities. “Grinds” make out
just as well as people whose col-
lege careers were more rounded,
and the achievements of the “Big
Man on Campus” are not in any
way reflected in his later earn-
ings.

The wealth of a college, computed

on a ratio of endowment to aum-
ber of students, is clearly reflected
in the graduates’ later earnings.
Students who attended the wealth-
iest colleges earn the most. Among
the graduates of rich colleges and
universities, alumni of Ivy League
schools stand out with the highest
post-graduate earnings. And among
these, the graduates of Harvard,
Yale and Princeton consistently
earn more money at every point in
their careers than do any other

group of college men.
The graduates who were the best

students in college prove to be the
great source of political Inde-
pendents. Those who took a broad,
general college course tend to be
much more interested in social and

political questions, to be less prej-
udiced, and are more often listed

as “Independent” voters,

College graduates settle in large
cities after they have gone to col-
lege. Higher education has a defi-
nite function as a population re-

By NORMAN 8. TARLIN

On Wednesday, March 26, the
doors to the newly renovated
Georgia Tech Book Store were
opened wide to take care of the
mobs of on-rushing students.

As most students noticed, the
book store took on 2 new appear-
ance this quarter with a new ar-
rangement of books. Gone from
sight was the old long counter and
in its place were neat, newly ar-
tanged book racks which housed
every required book needed for the
day and night schools. This was
the beginning of the new “self-
service” (until you reached the
cash register) type of system re-
cently introduced here at Tech.

Students, when entering the new
self-service store, were required to
leave all previously purchased books
and supplies in the wooden racks
which were provided. In almost

FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1952

Enter Into The Spring Rebirth:
Rededication to Christianity

out as the Son of God: His

death, the others would be al-
most worthless to us today.
And the message of the angel
rings as true for for us today
as for the disciples 19 centuries
ago in Palestine: He is risen!

So Easter in the Spring should
serve as a reminder to all of us, who
all too often forget that Christ
died for our sins and conquered
Death that we too might have
eternal life. Let Easter and Spring
bring to our hearts a reaffirma-
tion of our Christian beliefs, and a
dedication of our lives to strive
ever to spread the Promise of
Easter to a world distraught with
fear and false gods, and faithless-
ness and potential self-destruction;

a world sorely in need of a Saviour.

distributor. The study shows that
little more than half of the grad-
wates are still living in the home
areas where they spent most of
their pre-college years. Forty-four
per cent have settled down outside
their home states. People who leave
their state for their education are
much more likely to remain away
from home after graduation than
are those graduates who attended
college within their state, Almost
two-thirds of the graduates who
gO away to school are lost to the
“home state” for good. If the grad-
uate does stay home for his edu-
cation, there is a good chance, again
almost two-thirds, that he will re-
main within his state after he
finishes his education. Graduates
who majored in science, and par-
ticularly in engineering, are much
more likely to move to a different
area after graduation. It also ap-
pears that migration is more among
those who were the best students
in college, :

Among college graduates there is
a direct relationship between in-
come and family life. For example,
as the graduate’s income increases,
so does the number of children.
This is the exact opposite of the
figures for the general population
where the poorest groups have the
largest families,

Whether the college woman grad-
uated from a co-educational school
or from a woman's college seems
to have fittle or no effect upon her
ultimate marriage chances, the
number of children she will bear,
the stability of her marriage, or her
outside employment. Divorce oc-
curs most often among working
wives, The smallest proportion of
spinsters among college graduates
is to be found in the Jewish group,
and, surprisingly, the largest pro-
portion by far comes from the
Catholic group.

The results of an opinion sec-
tion in the questionnaire show bey-
yond any doubt that America’s col-
leges are not turning out radicals.
On questions of politics and govern-
ment, the graduates are considera-
bly more conservative than the
folklore would have you believe.
They appear to be fairly tolerant,
although less tolerant of foreigners
than of American minorities, The

(Continued On Page Four)

Georgia Tech Book Store
Tries Self-Service System

all cases the full cooperation of
the students was easily observed.
Student guides were stationed at
various intervals along the rows of
book racks in order to help cus-
tomers find the required books.
Shelves were clearly marked with
course numbers and at the end of
each rack there was posted the
courses, books required for the
Courses and the prices of the books.
Most students quickly oriented
themselves to the new system and
made their way about the store
very efficiently. This new type of
system being used allows the siu-
dents to look over the various books
and to pick out the ones required
for his various courses, With the

exception of the first few days of
each quarter the average student
can be in and out of the book store
in a matter of minutes,

The Technique.
