With baseball, tennis,
and track grabbing all
the space in the papers

has been heard on the
progress of Davidson’s
1952 gridders as they go
through of f » season
drills. And as far as
far as Coach Bill Dole
is concerned, that’s as it
should be. The new Cat
football mentor has
been quiety conducting
spring practice for six-
teen days now, slowly
rounding his squad into
shape for his debut in

By DICK ROPER

the annual Southern Conference Heartbreak Ball next September.

In order to avoid having his men completely dehy-
drated by the scorching May sun Dole resorted in the middle
of this week to having the Cats work out at night under
the lights on Richardson Field. So far. the experiment has
proved successful, both in improving morale and bettering
the performance of the squad in scrimmages.

If the Wildcats don’t know the fundamentals of football
by the time they take the field against V.P.I. here September 20,
it won't be Dole’s fault. He has devoted practically the whole
spring session to blocking, tackling, and the other basic essen-
tials of a good football team.

On the other hand, he hasn't been entirely neglecting the
development of an offense. His basic formation is a Split-T not
a great deal different from Crowell Little’s lineup, but he
utilizes a Notre Dame box behind his line in addition to the con-
ventional T backfield.

What will the Cats rely on principally to gain the
ground for first downs next year? ‘We've got a good, hard-
running fullback in Henry Brown.” says Dole. “But we
won't rely principally on a cunning attack. With a team as
small and with as little depth as Davidson has, that would
be foolish. We'll throw the ball a lot next year. | have
always played a wide-open game. and next year’s Wildcats
will be that kind of team.”

That puts the big load squarely on the shoulders of quarter-
back Jack Ruth, whose aerials can make or break the Cats next
fall. In case of injury to Ruth. Dan McCall will be the. man to
step in. Freshman John Archer, Number 2 man in the QB slot
last fall, won’t return to Davidson in September.

On the receiving end of these tosses Dole has Dick Kelly and
Gene Pierce, both rising seniors. The shifting of Pierce, who
has played at the guard and tackle slots for the past two seasons,
has proved highly successful so far. As for defense on the flanks,
Dole isn’t sure yet who his men will be.

At the tackles, Ben Craig and Bob Loy have been
turning in good performances. Dole has high hopes that
Harry Peterson, the giant South Carolinian who was hurt in
pre-season drills last fall, will have sufficiently recovered
from a knee injury to hold down one of the tackle slots
in September.

Looking good in the guard slots have been Charlie Cousar,
Dickie Davis, and Bob Patton. Dole isn't at all certain about his
center, since first stringer Arnold Whisnant hasn't been doing
any scrimmage because of a broken nose suffered in baseball a
few weeks ago. Dick Perkins, linebacker on the '51 team, will
probably see extensive service at this post next fall.

In the backfield, things are still pretty wide open. In addi-
tion to Brown, Ruth and McCall, several others have showed
capability though there have been few spectacular runs ripped
off in scrimmage. Freshman Jim Thacker, still nursing a serious
shoulder separation suffered last fall, has been going through
light drills only, running plays in dummy scrimmage.

The key to a winning season, after all other factors
have been considered, can be summed up in one important
(Continued On Page Four)

this spring, not much!

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ehydrating Gridders Finish $

pring Drills Under Lights
Wildcat Sports

SPORTS SECTION FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1952

ATHLETES FETED

MONDAY NIGHT

PAGE THREE

TENNIS TOURNAMENT BEGINS THURSDAY

Wildcat of the Week . . . Bill Shipley

Senior-Faculty

Day Sees

Competition In 4 Events

By THEO FEILD

After four years of “blood
and tears," the Class of °52
finally gets a chance to show
the faculty how things are done
outside their classrooms. The
undergrads and the profs meet
head-on Wednesday afternoon
in the annual Senior-Faculty
Day competition.

The annual affair will include
four athletic contests. These are in
golf, tennis, softball and volley-
ball. After these events are over,
the participants will gather at
Erwin Lodge for a weiner roast.

Coach Pete Whittle is in

charge of the facuhy ‘team.
Letters have been sent out to
all the members explaining the
situation and asking for their
services. Whittle seemed very
pleased with the response from
the letters.

All members of the senior class
are eligible to compete in Wednes-
day’s events. Those boys who have
received athletic awards are not
allowed to take part in the events
in which they received their letters,
but may offer their skills in other
games.

Starting off the day will be
the golf matches. These will be-
(Continued On Page Four)

Wadeto Speak
To Athletes At
Sports Feed

By TAD CURRIE

Jake Wade; sports publicity di-
rector at the University. of North
Carolina, will be the main speaker
at the second annual Davidson Col-
lege all-sports banquqet which will
be held on Monday evening in
Johnston Gym. Plans for the din-
ner were revealed this week by
Davidson Athletic Director Paul
Scott, who hopes to make the event
a really fine affair.

Wade, a former sports editor of
the Charlotte Observer, is a well-
known § figure around Davidson,
having sent two sons, Jake, Jr., and
Ham, to’ Davidson.

The idea for an all-sporte
banquet was begun last year
in an effort to consolidate the
many small affairs that were
being held to honor each team.
All Davidson men who partici-
pated in intercollegiate ath-

(Continued On Page Four)

Cindermen Close Season

With N.C. State At Raleigh

By JOHN HANDLEY

Tomorrow afternoon the 1952 Da-
vidson cindermen will travel to
Raleigh to meet the powerful N.C.
State Wolfpack for the final meet
of the regular season. State is
-strong in almost all of the 15 events
and will provide some of the stif-
fest competition thrown at the Cats
this season.

ener all came through with tlieir

fastest times of the. year in

placing first in their respec-
tive events.

Bill White and Buddy MacKay
both ran their best times also, but
each was nosed out in his hurdle
event to take a very close second.

The Cats took seven first spots,

The men of the Red and Black|a tie for first, and a total of twenty

shone even in defeat against Clem-

placed in the entire meet. Those

son last weekend in running, by! taking firsts were: Bill McNeely

far, their best meet of the season.
Six of the Wildcat thinclads ran
their best times of the season, mak-
ing it a hotly contested, fast meet

(45° 2%") in the shot put; Dick
Stockton (4:39.5) in the mile; Bill
Shipley (51.7) in the 440; Bill Mc-
Neely (130° 5”) in the discus; Bob

all the way; one of which David-| Henry (2:03) in the 880; Frank

sonians can justly be proud.

The score of last week's meet
was a very close 69% to 61%
count. Coach Whittle was high
in his praises of his Wildcats
after the Clemson encounter,
Dick Stockton, Bill Shipley,
Bob Henry, and Frank Mitch-

"W hen a man’s busy,
why, leisure

Strikes him as
a wonderful pleasure’

Robert Browning, The Glove

Mitchener (22.7) in the 220; Bob
Poston (10° 6”) in a four-way tie
in the pole. vault, and the mile relay
team (J. V. Howell, Bob Henry,
Bill Russell and Bill Shiptey—
3:30.7) in the relay.

In winning the relay event
with their 3:30.7 time the relay
team broke the record for the
local track which stood at 3:32.
The old record was set fast year

(Continued On Page Four)

Chesterfield
SPORTS QUIZ

What is the name of the win-
ning horse in the Kentucky
Derby last Saturday and who
was the jockey?

Who is the current

leading

in Room E East (basement),

i sep

te»

a a
A

—

1
pf

y

SHIPLEY ... the gazelle has been antedated

By DICK LILES

In the fall of 1950 when the an-
nual Frosh Cake Race had been
run over the usual’ tough course
and the red-faced and tired crew
assembled .for their réwards, Pete
Whittle was not the least bit reti-
cant to award the huge cake
that was to go to the first man, be-
cause he could see that the winner
would “bring home the bacon” in
years to come.

Last Saturday Bilt Shipley
lived up to all expectations and
caused Coach Whittle to heap
high praises on him. “That $1.7
440 is the best he’s ever done,
but before Shipley leaves Da-
vidson, I want him to break
our record (50.6) and I think
he'll do it. “I’m taking him to
the conference meet and expect
him to do great things,” is the
way it went in an. interview
with Whittle after the Clemson
meet.

Frosh Records

Saturday was not the only time
that eyes have been cast proudly
toward the lean, always-smiling
Shipley. Last year, his freshman
year, he was a member of the
freshman cross-country team and
set two important course records
that year, Besides making the var-
sity look silly by cracking the ex-
isting Davidson course record with

a 12.025-minute scamper, he went
to Pfieffer Junior College and broke
their course record and set a new
record for junior colleges to shoot
for in the state.

Also last year for Ray
Brown's frosh team, he went
undefeated in the two running
events that he entered in every
meet, He carried the Kittens
to victories in the 440 and 880
and also was anchor man on
the once-beaten relay team and
broad-jumped in his spare time.

Steady Winner

This year the likable Signia Chi
has been the steady 440 man and
anchor man on the highly success-
‘ful relay team as well as broad-
jumping sometime and running the
880 when the call came. Coach
Whittle continued, “He really has
been the anchor man in the true
sense of the word on that relay
team. Some of the victories we've
copped would not have been so, if
it had not been for Shipley’s great
stamina and ‘burst of speed. We're
expecting great things of him be-
fore he leaves Davidson.”

And so our Wildcat of the Weck
truly deserves the honor that lias
been bestowed on him and it is
with all hope that the Asheville,
N. C., boy will continue in the cén-
ference mect and in the years to
come, the precedent that he has
set as a sophomore; a winner,

KAPPA SIGS OR PHI GAMS?

Race For Cup
Goes To Wire |

By WALLACE ABBOTT

The 1952 interfraternity sports
season is practically all over except
for the shouting, which will be done

sistently good pitching of Perry
Daniels and the strong hitting
of Horace Ball, Bill Rabb,

(Continued On Page Four)

Conference Aces Convene
To Compete For Net Crown

The Southern Conference tennis tournament begins on the
local courts Thursday afternoon with the best netmen the mem-
ber schools can offer competing for the title won last year by
North Carolina's aggregation. Davidson Coach Derrick Barton

-expects larger participation in this year’s tourney than in the

(951 event, which was also held

Wildcat Golfers
To Winston-Salem
For Tournament

Coach Elgin White's Wildcat
golfers journey to Winston-Salem
next Friday to compete in the
Southern Conference tournament
held in that city. Going into the
tourney with a 4-4 record in con<
ference competition, the Cat links-
men stood to be seeded wot higher
than fourth at the beginning of the
first day’s play.

Men competing in the tourna-
ment for Davidson are Graeme
Keith, Lew Barnes, Bob Brannon,
Al Fitzgerald, Mac McLean, and
Jim Sloan.

Though they have only a
.500 record in conference play,
the Cats will be riding the
crest of an impressive win over
South Carolina this past Tues-
day. They whipped the S. C.
golfers 19!4 to 1736 as sopho-
more Bobby Brannon toured
the tough Myers Park course
in 68 strokes, four under par.
Davidson's team average, a con-

vincing 74, was enough to make
them bear watching in the proceed-
ings Friday and Saturday

The overall mark for the David-
son's linksmen shows five wins
against seven losses, including three
early lickings from Florida teams
during a spring vacation tour.

PATRONIZE OUR
ADVERTISERS
—IT PAYS!

here.

Duke, Davidson, North Carolina,
and William and Mary appeared to
get the top seeded positions for
the tournament, as all four have
posted good records for the cur-
rent season.

Barton's Wildcat netmen, not
yet back from a week-long
Northern trip, will have only a

short rest before entering the
hot tournament competition.
The Cats lost to Harvard and
Princeton early this week, then
defeated Wesleyan Wednesday.

The men the Cats will be com-
peting with make a formidable list.
They include Tommy Boys and
Ronnie Barnes of William and
Mary; Kes Deimling and
John Schellenger of Duke; Del
Sylvia, Herbie Browne, and Tommy
Payne of North Carolina. Against
these men Derrick Barton will pit
Wildcat standouts Lacy Keesler,

‘Dewey Keesler, John Bremer and

Allan Strand. .

Davidson is banking heavily on
freshman and sophoriore talent to
bring the tennis crown back here.
The crown was last won by the
Cats in 1950 with the top combina-
tion of Bo Roddey and Whit Cobb.
Since his graduation from Davidson
Roddey has become North Carolina
singles champion.

In. addition to the above-named
teams, others who will enter the
play Thursday are South Carolina
and Washington and Lee. North
Carolina State is also expected to
send a delegation.

The man to watch in the
singles event is Tommy Boys
of William and Mary. He was
eliminated last year in the
semi-finals, but has been burn-
ing up the courts of the con-
ference this season, and is the

(Continued On Page Four)

THESE STAMINA-TESTED GPALDIN
MADE TENNIS BALLS HAVE TOP
RATING IN CHAMPIONSHIP TENNIS.

MAMPION

cn ogneenyt*7

TEWRIGHTS DITSON
1S THE ONLY
OFFICIAL SALLCF Tis
USLTA NATL

NAT'L CHAMPIONSHIPS
SINCE 1987... OFPFICLAL
CUP MATCH T

money winner in U. S. profes- | ext Tuesday in chapel when Leighton McGill, and a host
No matter what your work, a sional golf? Coach Whittle announces the final} of others that pulled them WITH ITS TWIN...
leisurely moment's pause to enjoy 3 What former University of | Overall standings in the year’s race. rouge rang the co-cham- tHE SPALDING. .
. . : North Carolina tennis player is At the present time it ap- pion ams were pitcher THEY ARE PLAYED IN Ac
a delicious Core Cola is alway sa currently rated as the best ama-| pearg that’ the winner of the en Groseclose and heavy MAJOR TOURNAMENTS CHAMPIONSHIP’,
pleasure... ways refreshing, too. teur nm the US? cup will be either the Kappa li vn L att Moore and Char- THAN ALL OTHER TENNIS mcehee ie
4 What American League slugger| gigs or the Phi Gams. Both ie Hal BALL’ MBINED <
recently traded in his Red Sox! of these teams are very close | Tennis is also nearing comple- FOR A SHARPER GAME...
form for one of the U.S. Marine} in the point total, and the win- | tion and here the Phi Gams, Betas PLAY THE
5 wae? th talist in the ner will not be known until var- [and Kappa Sigs are leading the TWINS OF
Oo was the medalist in sity participation is computed. arade, HAM ONS'
Davidson-U.S.C. golf match Close behind both of these teams par C PI HIP TENNIS
played last Tuesday? and still standing an outside chance SOFTBALL
—— are the KA’s and Phi Delts. Ww L
Winners of last week’s quiz were SPE's --..--.--- 10 |
Tom Lamb, Max Morrison, Ralph| The SPE’s and the Phi Gams/ Phi Gams -_---- 10 1
Holt, Bill Minter and Jack Joy-|tied for the softball championship} Ks _._..._.__. 9 2
ner. in a hard fought season that saw] KA _________._. 8 3
Remember that awards of two|both teams lose only one game.| p; x, !
, PS .-...--- 4 4 @ sets the pace in sports.
packs of Chesterfields are being Both clubs ended the year with a .
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concur a made to the first five students who | 10-1 record, but a small edge must} FP hi Delts. oeetenn- 6 5 ALL NEW SPORTS SHOW BOOK
Oo: ot ne woey turn in correct answers on an empty | be handed the SPE's who defeated| Sigma Chis -..... 5 6 of Mullin Cartoons published In this book only.
952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY @ I Chesterfield wrapper to Charlie Hail|the Phi Gams early in che season.| Betas -..-.------- 4 7 WRITE TODAY TO SPALDING-DEPT. C-63
{ For the SPE’s it was the con- . Chicopee, Mass,
