PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

—e

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF --..---.--.-------------- Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER ...---....--...----------- Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR --...---....--------.------- John Ottley
Associate Editors .....-.. Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope, Myers
Managing Editors --.-.---------.- Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor -.--..--.-.-.-.-...--.-----------e Dick Roper

Feature Editor—T. A. Williams
Assignments—Strand.

‘News Editor—D. M. Smith
Arts Editor—Mahy

Photographer ---.-------. ------------2-----2--------- ee Simons
Assistant Business Manager -........---.-...----------. Poston
Advertising Manager ...-.....---.-----.....----.—----- Hasty
Circulation Manager -...-..-.....---..---~---------- Nicholson
Collection Manager ....-.------..------.--.-..----- Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Welcome Alumni and Patrons
To 1952 Davidson Homecoming

The Davidsonian staff would like to take this opportuni-
ty to extend for ourselves and the student body, a hearty wel-
come to all the alumni and friends of Davidson College. We
are glad that you are able to be with us for the many activities
during this 1952 Homecoming celebration.

While you are here, we hope that you will have an oppor-
tunity to visit with the various groups and organizations on the
campus. Many of the fraternities have planned open house this
weekend, and are looking forward to having you with them.
This is an excellent time to renew old acquaintances with the
active chapter. You are also invited to tour the college union
and the new church and to visit the YMCA and literary societies.
Many of you will want to attend the dance Saturday evening.
We hope that you will take part in as many activities over the
weekend as is. possible.

As you return to the campus, the parade of progress that
has taken place over the last few years is much more apparent to
you than it is to those of us who are students here now. And
yet, even with the expansion of the physical structure, Davidson
is basically the same as it was when you were here. It continues
to stand for the better things in life and engenders those high
ideals of character and manhood that give it a distinction and
a good name to set it far above the ordinary.

It is with regret and mixed emotions that we announce
the passing, of

QUO VADIS
Born Dec. 5. 1951 Diep Fes. 7, 1952

“The faculty's sword is mightier than the student's pen”

For the freshmen we offer a brief note of explanation.
Quo Vadis was a student paper attempting to discuss certain
touchy topics the college-backed Davidsonian had to side-step.

“We're not in competition with the Davidsonian,” began
the first issue. But this policy seems to have been forgotten in
the war-of-digs that followed between the two papers. The
Davidsonian boys howled at the obvious bragging of the Q.V.
boys... ‘‘get more mail to the editors with one issue than the D.
does in two years.’’ That first issue dealt with Policy, Student
Myopia. That Undeterminable Something, and Our Money's
Worth (a really good evaluation of what the D.C. student gets
and what perhaps he should get for his 900 skins per year.)

The first masthead bore the names Brinkley, Crutchfield.
Hope, Hunter and Stuart. By the next issue three more had joined
their ranks—Lamon, Myers, and Shippy. Maybe these three
were lurking behind the scenes of the first Q.V. but waited to
see if it would be a success or failure before committing them-
selves. Vol. 1, No. 2, had these articles: Davidson’s Popularity
Contest—Student Body Elections, Holidays, Our Lack of Them:
ROTC Drill. and Indigestion.

The student body then set back to await further issues—
None came. Months covered the memory of Q.V. with a thick
layer of dust, but occassionally an upperclassman would dust it
aside with the question Quo Vatibatis, Quo Vadis? (where did
you go, Quo Vadis). A Davidsonian editor and staff who are
really interested in improvements and the right presentation of
the rlews is the answer. Look at the masthead at the top of this
column and compare it with Quo Vadis. The three ringleaders.
Brinkley, Hope and Myers have been added to this staff.

Some might think it was a complete waste of time and
paper, but look again at the articles. The one on elections sug-
gested (1) a four-minute talk for major candidates, (2) a cam-
paign manager to write a factual report to be printed in the
Davidsonian telling the qualifications, scholastic average, activ-
ities, and platform. The first suggestion has now been put into
our constitution, and the second still doesn’t sound like a bad
idea.“'Holidays, Our Lack of Them.’’ might take possibly a
little credit for letting Jack Ruth know the students weren't
completely satisfied with the old system. The ROTC article
proposed moving drill back 15 minutes. Shortly after that issue
appeared it was moved back 10 minutes. Then there was the
Faculty Evaluation Sheets. Some faculty members realizing
that there is always room for improvement used these evalua-
tion sheets to a high degree of success. They dealt with such
questions as classroom manners, lectures, textbooks, use of
humor, etc.

The present editor would undoubtedly list the greatest con-
tribution of the mimeographed sheet as the stirring up of stu-
dent interest with a resulting increase in the “Letters to the
Editor” department. Before Q.V. these were few and far between.

Farewell, Quo Vadis—your life was a full one. May it
never be necessary for an off-spring of yours to again appear on
the Davidson campus.—M.G.M.

3 |F

SR RE

|

“george! Great T See You agam /”
“HEtto Bun! Hows Tar DRogsTORE In NASHURLE?'(Tom-Seuis Fonos wu Cantor)
“Ea--FIng™ You STU IW THe Baww Ar Ricmono ?” (sim -Seus Fores Concoeo)
“Tete Me, Howke HELEN ANd THe Kins?” (Tom-Mnaciey Sau N OFFSPRIn )
“Great! Ano Yours?" (aim = CONFIRMED BACHELOR)
“Sue REMEMBER Your GRENT TovGLDOUN AG AUST Ste!" (Town — Raven 8a10¢0)
“AND Youd SPaint Recoen im Trace!” (Tim~cHEss)
“THOSE WERE THE DAYS + Weu, So Low, €9,/”
“See You LaTeR . Sam.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

1 A B Fwhey

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

A Nash Poses Social Problem

For Homecoming Reflection

It’s taking an awful chance

At a dance

To say: That’s a pretty girl
over there, I think 1 will try

to attract her

When you dont know her's
and ‘very probably not even
your own blood factor.

For instance if she were Type
B and you were Type A

There wouldn’t be anything at
first to keep you both from
being very gay;

But if you got married

You would to say the least
wish you had tarried.

Tt would have been easier be.
fore going to the altar

To have told her

. I think you are unusually at-

tractive but I am Type A,
RH Positive and I am afraid
in the long run we would
both feel regretive

Tf you happen to be, as is en-
tirely possible, Type B, RH
Negative.

Obviously it is safer and much
more expedient to have a few
salient facts for reference

Than deference.

With apologies to
Ogden Nash.

A man walked into the Mt.
Mourne Consolidated Ball Bearing
Industries the other day and ap-
plied to the personnel nianager for
a job. ‘

“References?” asked the man-
ager, and the applicant, Quintence
Brown, handed over several letters
from former employers. “Hmm,”
said the manager. Shortly he knew
that Quintence Brown would prob-
ably do better as a Rivet Rodder
than a Ball Bearer, pointed it out
to Brown, and they parted with no
hard feclings.

That night Quintence went to
Mt. Holly, as was his custom,
stopped outside his girl friend’s
house and honked. Soon Hydran-
gea came out, got in the car and
they started off. Neither had any-
thing to say, but they weren't self-
conscious about it because they
had been going together for a year
and a half and it seemed natural.

Pretty soon, though, Hydrangea
told Quintence that she had been
thinking about something for a
while and might as well tell him
then. Despite the fact, she said,
that they had been keeping com-
pany for a year and a half, she felt
that there was nothing about
Quintence. that she liked, and sev-
eral things she disliked. These were
(a) his honking, (b) wearing loud
ties (c) his bank account’ and (d)
his technique.

Well, said Quintence, I’m glad
you brought that up because I have

By ALDEN WILLIAMS

a similar list. 1 don’t like (a) high
heels, (b) short hair, (c) your
father, (d) your mother and (e)
you. So they went to the show,
went dancing, drove out and logked
at the moon, drove home and part-
ed forever, mad as hell.

The point here is that all this
might have been avoided, and the
obviously unwise Quintence-Hy-
drangea_ relationship might have
been headed off a year and a half
earlier as quickly and efficiently
as the Mt. Mourne Ball Bearing
affair that morning.

It required only a little research
before they first dated. Quintence,
for instance, had never dated any
girls but short-heeled, long-haired
orphans, while Hydrangea’s only
steady beau before Quintence was
an undertaker who used the com-
pany’s car and naturally didn’t
honk for people.

How much simpler it would have
been if both Hydrangea and Quin-
tence, a year and a half earlier, had
been able to show each other ref-
erences from these former com-

panions!

Many times, even when an em-
ployee is fired, he is provided a
fairly decent reference covering his
good service; the same sort of
thing is made to order for couples
who split wp.

As it is now, males and females
are distressingly irrational about it,
and. frequently carry grudges, frus-
trations or torches for unreasona-
bly long periods. Often, because
they are on the rebound, they date
unsuitable companions, and waste a
lot of time.

If all the eligible, however, car-
ried references given them by ra-
tional, departed, formerly-loved
ones, people could make a habit
of exchanging them on trains, at
parties, in church and anywhere
they had a free moment.

The results are obvious. Away
with inane romantic vacillation.
Don’t take a chance on a glance
at a dance. Don’t trust the hand
of fate; by then ‘twill be too late.
Demand proof.

|| THE FREE LANCE:

As the grizzled hordes descend
on their alma mater one might won-
der how a man can say,“I never met
a Davidson man I didn't like.”

In this crowd of smiling old
gtads who attend the annual bid
for a democracy they never knew
even in the shadow of old Cham-
bers, what is there common to
them which would prompt an in-
telligent speaker to comment as he
did?

Is it love of learning? There
will be a smattering of Phi Beta
Kappa keys among the lot, al-
though some of these even will
be hypocritical reminders of
long-forgotten hours in the
library.

Perhaps a few who still read
critically and conscientiously are
here, but their virtue is lost amid
the jovial shouts of the ex-jovials
who still think Pericles is a sort
of opera cloak.

Is the common virtue a deep
teligion? Despite compulsory
chapel and vespers we suspect
there are a few alumni here today
who allot matters of religion to
Sunday and let it go at that.

Perhaps the thing which eset
us apart is humility. Wait—we
detect the brash tones of some-

Dear Editor:

I want to thank you for making
available to me the columns of
your paper to clarify a common
misconception that exists on the
campus concerning the purpose of
the Campus Club. I had hoped that
our position would have become
self-evident, but recent conversa.
tions with faculty and student lead-
ers have convinced me that such
a statement is necessary.

Four times since last April rep-
resentatives of national fraternities
have encouraged us to reorganize
as a local fraternity and petition
their groups. Four times we have
declined—not because we oppose
fraternities, but because we feel
‘that a real need exists to make
available to non-fraternity men a
medium of fellowship on a basis of
open membership. It would not be
possible to have such an organiza-
tion within the framework of a
national fraternity. Therefore we
have chosen to remain autonomous.

Freedom of voluntary associa-
tion or the right of one individual
xo choose his associates and ex-
clude from them anyone he deems
undesirable is basic to our de-
mocracy. The nature of our fra-

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1952

By JOHN OTTLEY

one here in the crowd who has

made a fool of his rival textile

mill and is more than anxious

to let his audience here about

it.

A love of humanity is what
many will suggest as the summum
bonum of a Davidson éducation.
But here in the throng is a doctor
who at the core of his inner being
is more interested in collecting his
bills than in what physical or men-
tal health he imparts to his pa-
tients.

No, a love of humanity is some-
thing that an individual must de-
velop on his own.

Surely every Davidson man
is honest. Few of our grad--
uates, we admit, turn to the
path of civil crime. How many
on the other hand are totally
honest with themselves? How
many force themselves to un-
biased judgments out of a pure
love of honesty?

“Why.” pipes up a squeaky
voice from a blue serge suit and
vest, “I know every one of my
classmates is reliable.” “Well,
everyone of yours may be, buster,
but not every one of mine,” answer
too many voices to enumerate.

As we progress through the list

FROM THE EDITORS MAILBOX:

Purpose Of The Campus Club Necessitates
Its Continued Existence on the D.C. Campus

ternity system is such that it could
not be effective unless something
were done to see that a relative
degree of congenialty exists among
the group. I believe that the pro-
cess of selection is justified as used
at Davidson.

Yet we cannot abandon the non.
fraternity students here to their
own fate. Some provision must be
made for these men to participate
in athletic, social and humanitarian
activities. It is just as necesasry for
them as for anyone else to have
friends, to join group activities of
one kind and another with ‘their
fellow students, and ¢o enjoy all
the other benefits which come to
the members of a social organiza-
tion such as a college fraternity.

It was a realization of this ne-
cessity that was responsible for the
fcrmation of the Campus Club five
years ago. The need has been les-
sened by the establishment of two
additional social fraternities, but it
will not be climinated by the estab-
lishment of another. If simply add-
ing fraternities would solve the
problem, there would be a chapter
of Sigma Nu at Davidson, and a
local fraternity petitioning DKE,
both off-shoots of the Campus Club.

D. C. Imparted Distinct Virtue
To Each Paunchy Homecomer

of virtues we find none which can.
tbe attributed collectively to the
‘men of old D.C. What is it that
this institution inculcates in alt
its men?

We believe the quality that
ects the Davidson man apart
from the students of other
schools and colleges is the fact
that he has a rather acute
sense of moral responsibility.

He believes there is a right and
that he can attain it. Obviously
from the above, he does not always
do so, but deeply ingrained upon
his code of ethics is a sense of
“ought.”

It's a thing which makes him‘al-
most involuntarily say “That's not
right!” He may not say it aloud,
but at least for awhile he thinks
it.

We cannot but feel that this
is the virtue which is most des-
perately needed before a man
is prepared for life in the
outer world. This ig not to ex-
cuse the curriculum as it stands
now and mitigate the com-
plaints of business majora who
say they aren't getting the
preparation they could at Caro-
lina or Harvard.

(Continued On Page Four)

Ours is not a frame of mind
that is antagonistic to or different
from those of our classmates. We
share and respect their enthusiasm
for their own particular organiza-
tions. In every respect of major
importance the Campus Club is like
the fraternities at Davidson. The
differences are minor—our location
is not on fraternity court, we have
an English title, we are not af-
filiated with a national organization,
and finally, we have open member-
ship.

What has given me cause for

‘concern was the assumption made

by members of the faculty and ad-
ministration, as well as by students,
that we intend to affiliate with a
national fraternity whenever the
opportunity presents itself. Either
they are unfamiliar with our organ-
ization or they believe we are in-
sincere when we maintain it is our
conviction that there is a definite
need for the Campus Club at Da-
vidson, and that only when a bet.
ter way is found to meet the need
will we seriously consider affilia-
tion.

Respectfully yours,

ED BLANTON, President

The Campus Club.

AY
Uy

frst AN a
ee
A

|
=

|
o

a
}

7

oooddut only Time

THE MAN SAID IN 48 HOURS
THERE WOULDN'T BE A
MOUSE IN

NS

@NLY TIME WILL TELL How Gooo A*mouser’is, [ag
AND ONLY TIME WILLTELL ABOUT A CIGARETTE! \g77auiir:
TAKE YOUR TIME... MAKE THE SENSIBLE 30-DAY
CAMEL MILDNESS TEST. SEE HOW CAMELS SUIT
YOU AS YOUR STEADY SMOKE!

CAMEL leads all other brands
by billions of cigarettes per year!

R, J. Reynolds Tebsceo Co., Wintton-Ralem, N, C.

li

_

ve

4;
*

LOOK AT THOSE CLAWS! A
VERITABLE TIGER...OF THE
FELIS GO-GETTEM Type!

GO GET 'EM,TIGE!
I KNOW YOU CAN Do IT!

7

Tet CAMBS
for 30 days
fr Mies nd Fr

CAMBLS are America’s most pop-
ular cigarette. To find out why,
test them as your steady smoke.
Smoke only Camels for thirty days.
See how rich and flavorful they are
— pack after pack! See how mild
CAMELS are — week after week!

