PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .............0.0..........: BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER. ..................... ALEX GOLEY
Associate Editors .-.....------- Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,

George McMurray
Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,
John Ottley
Art Editor—Don Mahy Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Ediror—Dick Liles Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Managing Editors

Assistant Business Manager -.------------------ Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager --------~..-.-----—---------- Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager ---.--.------. | -------------+-- Bob Poston
Collection Manager --.-..---- wees een neeecenneenne Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager ...-------~- ----+-------- Preston Chaney

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C.. under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Student Response Will Prove
Wisdom of Amendment Passage

‘The-I-Speak-For-Election amendment to the constitution,
passed by a student body vote after the student council veto. gets
its first test with the present elections of student body president.

It has been said that any’ minority group in this student
body, interested enough in any reasonable change. could success-
fully effect the change. The student apathy is that great. We
wonder if that is not what has happened in the case of the elec-
toral change.

When the student council voted down speeches by presi-
dential candidates (on the grounds of lack of real issues, an open-
ing wedge to open elections, and an actual waste of voting time)
50 students signed a petition putting the issue to a vote (on the
grounds that issues would be stimulated. there would be an
educated electorate, there would be political experience gained
by candidate and voter).

Change for the sake of change. it seems. brought the stu-
dent vote through in favor of the speeches. It is. with baited
breath. then, that we await the student body response to the
first talks by the narrowed field of candidates. We. too, were
caught up in the early enthusiasm of the move for speeches from
the platform. The airing of issues and stimulation of interest
do add life to the monotony of the mimeographed ballot? But
how important in swaying an election—in picking the best man,
will they prove? To what extent will they prove themselves
worthy of the time consumed?

The answer neither opponent nor proponent can supply
as yet. though both may have decided opinions. Te is for that
majority of the student body. those who really have no decided
opinion. to answer in the coming weeks.

The Old Troupers Are Reminder
To Seniors Ot The Bygone Day

Alumni are an odd lot. and thev are received according to
their lot number. v

That being the case. D. C. should have the welcome mat
out for the pair of old troupers playing in Chambers tonight.
To the Senior Class. Scruggs and Upchurch bring a tide of mem-
ories flooding back at a time when nostalgia is becoming a
daily pastime.

When that duo was playing at the Chambers Palace we
were just youngsters, green freshmen among a veteran splotched
student body. swollen to 1,100 members. As usual. and maybe
even more so in our case. anything the seniors did was a new
high in living. And Scruggs and Upchurch set the torrid pace
for that life, aided and abetted by one J. D. Ashemore.

Flanked by the sophomore and junior classes. we respect-
fully sat through each act and every chapel with anticipation and
awe. Could we forget the first of the Homecoming robberies,
that was a robbery” ‘‘Lucky” Scruggs and “Get that Bald-headed
gent in the balcony!”

Or the spontaneous parade a few nights before Christmas
holidays. An eerie train whistle touched off the usual East-West
mutual cursings. but it remained for Scruggs. with drum, and
Upchurch. with trombone. to recruit half of the concert band,
brake into Dixie as it swung along Dormitory Row. emptying
the dorms. the library, blocking U.S. 21. arid generally scaring
the townspeople out of their wits.

There are countless occasions—football games, chapel, the
Foolies. That pair ushered in the Four Great Years. It’s good to

have them back as we start to wrap it up.

“Dirty-Words” Prove A Point

Proponents of voluntary YMCA membership can look to
Georgia Dormitory these days and find grist for their mill.

For either from within Georgia's walls or from a neighbor-
ing dorm comes an element of the student body which is acting
against the constructive efforts of the Y. if not against the Chris-
tian faith as such.

Hall prayer meeting signs are repeatedly torn down, and
few announcements concerning an activity of the Y, Westmins-
ter Fellowship, or Student Volunteer Movement escapes their
penned ridicule. A recent announcement concerning try-outs for
SVM’s chapel play. “In His Hands,” a story of the persecution
of Christians in Korea, met with sarcastic and profane lettering
in the margin.

The crude comments are no hindrance to the work of these
organizations, of course, and pfobably aren’t meant to be. But
the voluntary member advocate’s point is well taken? Do these
people belong in the Young Men's Christian Association?

How t pot stols on a slifthy-s

FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1952

THE: DAVIDSONIAN —— 1 7
The Weakness Of Christianity:
Christ Or Normal Christians?

2.

tarched Tox

shirt...
3.

THE CABBAGE PLANTERS

Mervin: A Bedtime Story For
Retarded Children and Girls

The flushes have their laurels
as well as the Caesars.
E. Browning, The Cry
of the Children.
[

Once upon a time there was a
college student named Mervin. Had
you inquired, you would have
found that Mervin was no different
from any other college student; in
fact, he was as typical a one as you
‘wuld find. He was twenty, clean-
shaven and Presbyterian, just like
all college students.

And, like all college students,
Mervin had normal desires and mo-
tivations. He liked to study, to read,
to discuss Things In General with
his roommate, to play tennis, and
do other things like that. But
though all this took most of his
time. Mervin had other desires.
Nothing bad, exactly, but certainly
nothing one would ever tej] anyone.
Mervin never mentioned them, even
when the subject came up in his
Talks With His Roommate.

Nobody likes to remain a martyr
to his secret desires, though, and
Mervin was certainly nobody, if
anybody was. No siree, said Mervin
to himself one day, there's no fun
having a sécret if nobody knows
about it.

So one day, when he fele he
could, he Talked To His Room-
mate about it. He didn’t mean to
blurt it out, and he tried to make
it kind of an allegory, and gen-
eralize so that his roommate
wouldn’t know Waat He Was Up
To. But it sounded pretty much
like blurting, just the same. “Sure,”
said his roommate, “go ahead.” “Oh
boy!” cried Mervin.

Mervin asked a girl.

To a dance.

Three weeks away.

Some stuff, what? Bur Mervin

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

didn’t let it go to his head. No
siree. Not good old Study-till-my-
eyelids-droop -I - have - so - many -
books-I-stoop Mervin. Not for the
first two days after he mailed The
Letter, at least. For you see, he
had learned from those who know
about Such Things that girls are
funny. I mean, they don’t always
write back right away, because they
think that you'll think they think
... well, you know how it is. Mer-
vin knew, too.
i

Came the third day after he
mailed it. Still didn’t worry. The
fourth day and the fifth day. Mer-
vin fidgeted a little more in class,
but still, unless you knew him
pretty well, which nobody did, you
couldn’t tell.

A week went by with still no
answer to The Letter The strain
began to tell on Mervin. His ten-
nis game was off, and he stayed
ap past nine-thirty nearly every
night, just studying. He hardly ever
Talked To His Roommate.

Mervin was really in a Dither
after two weeks had gone by. This
was a situation into which he had
not expected to run. From watch-
ing his roommate, he had picked
up the Two Emotions that he
thought would cover everything: a
nonchalant hauteur if she answered
Yes, and if she answered No, a
non-chalant hauteur with just a
little more haut to it. He had prac-
ticed these and would have been
all set, had she answered even so
late as a week before the dance.

Finally, on Weiinesday before The
Friday, there came a rap-rap-rap
at Mervins door one evening about
ten o'clock. Mervin bounded out of
bed, because he really wasn't
asleep. In fact, he hadn’t slept for
six days. It was too early for them

to be bringing his roommate back,
so he unlocked the door and looked
out cautiously. A Special Delivery
Letter!

Mervin, of course, didn’: know
until he read the ‘letter What She
Had Done To Him. But you and I,
dear reader, know, don’t we? Mer-
vin Was Flushed. Some of you
probably expected it all along.

° ll

Boy, oh boy, was Mervin mad!
He tried the nonchalant hauter
business, but somehow, with girls
arriving all around, that didn’t
work. So then, having no other
recourse, he followed his own im-
pulses and composed a Very Nasty
Letter. You know the kind, and
Boy! this was a Stinker, consider-
ing Mervin. .

Mervin could be very sarcastic
when he wanted to be. In fact, he
often said biting things to his roomh-
mate when he was alone in the
room, It started off something like
this: “Dear Friend: In regard to
yours of the 1Sth . . .” and so on
for six pages, chock full of Nasty
Remarks about how she must think
she's awfully smart, and just who
did she think she was, and if she
thought she could make him mad,
she had another think coming, and
oh, all sorts of things like that. As
you can see, it was a Stinker.

But while Mervin was sitting
over in the corner of the gym
finishing his term paper during the
dance, he got to thinking about
The Nasty Letter on his desk. and

he began to feel Twinges, like you

always do when you write a Nasty
Letter. Pretty soon, those Twinges
became so strong that Mervin
dropped his typewriter, jumped up,

Ltushed lickety split out of the

dance, went to his room and tore
(Continued On Page Four)

S. V. M.

“Can A Divided Church Do Missionary Job?”

It is maintained that one of the
main hindrances to doing the mis-
sionary job today is our denomina-
tional divisions, Denominationlism
is held by some to be bad for the
Protestants simply because it tends
to catagorize different theologies.
Little unity is apparent to the or-
dinary observer and confusion is
greatest to the Christian outside
of the United States. Another
salient point is that in departmen-
talizing Christian faith there arises
competition in social, economic as
well as religious fields.

These are the negative view-
points toward our problem today,
but we can’t look at something pure-
ly from the negative side; we have
to find the more important positive
advantages of a “divided church.”
It, is probably a good thing, and
of course the Roman Catholics will
disagree, that we have various de-
nominations just as we have various
translations of the Bible. This has
led toward a wide search for truth

By BILL LORD

as individuals and groups realize
their particolar needs; but it is in-
evitable that a religion which is
bibliocentric and Christocentric will
come to recognize the unity that
is actually present. We can see this
in the religious movements today.
In the last 100 years many denomi-
nations have merged; missionary
movements have cut across nation-
al and denominational lines. The
Student Volunteer Movement has
for years affected the lives of many
in its interdenominational efforts.
And more recently The World
Council of Churches has been striv-
ing for unity among World. Chris-
tians. °

Although efforts for unity have
been made the church today is still
divided; and the missionary work
is still to a great extent divided.
Most of the total work of foreign
mission boards is done individually
and without knowledge of what
other boards are doing.

Whether or not a “divided

church” can do the missionary job
is eclipsed by the fact that God
has been using this broken Church
to carry on His work. If the church
were united probably the mission-
ary zeal would not be as great be-
cause Christians would depend too
entirely upon their unity and over-
tate its importance, thus delaying
missionary witness.

We can discuss many hypotheti-
cal predications as to the advan-
tages of unity and division in the
church but the fact of our’ Chris-
tian duty remains. It is the Chris-
tian’s duty to witness irregardless
of his church affiliation with an un-
tiring zeal and devotion. Every
Christian knows in his heart that
we are one in Christ, division or
no division in the church. It is time
the Christians of America stopped
stumbling over the minor blocks of
so-called problems and got to work
witnessing for Christ. By doing this
we will become less conscious of
whether or not we can do the job
because we are doing it already.

In these days of Automobiles
and T.V., Neuclear Physics and
Theory of Relativity, Communism,
Humanism, and Theism, for many
thousands of people, Christianity
has ceaesd to be a living force in
life. It has become the “opiate of
the middle classes.” It has become
fat and wealthy and as a result can
easily become corrupt and decadent,
being now for many, inadequate.
It no longer appeals to the in-
tellectuals of our age, who reject
it_on the basis of this inadequacy.
It no longer appeals to the wealthy,
who have so many material goods
that they feel no need for eternal
life, and it doesn’t appeal to the
lower income groups, who want
better wages, and better living con-
ditions, and youth centers in their
areas, rather than vague promises
of “Pie in the sky by and by, ete.”

Those critics of Christianity who
have rejected it—the intellectuals—
point ‘out all these things, and main-
tain that the fault is not in Chris-
tians, but in the basic presuppposi-
tions of Christianity. This line of
criticism brings to mind the ques-
tion: Can the inadequacies of a re-
ligion in a particular society be at-
tributed to faults in the theses of
the religion, or are they weaknesses

DICK ROPER:

in the society itself, and the in-
dividuals who profess the religion
or have the beliefs. This argument
applied to other fields can be used
to reject almost any institution in
our society, some of which may be
considerably more expendable than
Christianity.

So let us look to our society and
our people, rather than at what they
are supposed to believe and prac-
tice. An institution can only be as
good as the worst member in it,
and any one of us could easily be
that member. Civilizations of the
past have shown that the break-
down begins when the leaders of a
civilization begin to relax and take
things easy.

So the challenge of today pre-
sents itself to Christianity, and be-
comes more clearly delimited as it
is presented to each of the points
of view mentioned.

The intellectuals have the re-
sponsibility of examining their point
of view and reframing the ques-
tion of where the weakness of
Christianity is to be found. Second-
ly, they should seriously examine
their own lives to see if in it there
isn’t some vacuum—a vacuum par-
tially filled by Humanism, or
Theism, or Christ the great teacher

and prophet, but which would be
completely eliminated by the pres-
ence of Christ, the Son of God in
their lives. Not the Christ of the
Cadillac and the Presbyterian Ca-
thedral, mind you, but the Christ
of Calvary and the Christ of Easter
morn,

The challenge is open to the
wealthy (many of whom are already
social Christians), and demands that
they examine their value patterns
to see if life’s intangibles might not
make them better members of
society, and cure insomnia caused
by the cash register bell and the
stock ticker.

And most important of all the
challenge presents itself to those of
us who already profess Christianity
as we attempt to practice it in the
world of Today. Let us look to our-
selves and our Saviour, cast off
our pride (especially the pride we
take in our humility), our seif-
satisfaction, our hypocrisy, and our
material greed, and re-orient our-
selves to Life and to Christ. We -
have worshipped the machine too
fong, and have created an idol capa-
ble of destroying both our souls
and our bodies. The time for re-
birth is Now! What are you going
to do about it?

Preventive War Not The Way
To Stop Communist Threat

The theory that the only way to
avoid being overrun by Russia and
the Communists is to beat them to
the punch—i.e., wage a preventive
war, is one held by not a few
Americans, many of whom are in
positions in this country to make
their views heard plainly if not
heeded. Dave Matthews’ letter to
this newspaper last week illumi-
nates some of the major reasons
for advocating such an action.

It is generally conceded that Rus-
sia does not want to get along with
us, or let us go on our peaceful
way. Though Marx stated that cap-
italism would destroy itself, we are
beginning to realize that some day,
be it in the near or distant future,
Russia plans to resort to force in
order to place us under her domi-
nation.

Though there are many important
facts to be considered in this ques-
tion, the basic issue boils down to
the question of whether a preven-
tive war would accomplish the de-

‘sired result of repulsing future

threats of Russian aggression.

In the first place, the basic
premise of preventive war in this
case is fallacious. We say that we
would rather fight now and defeat
Russia before she can get the jump
on us with a gigantic war of aggres-
sion. But what the proponents of
this so-called preventive war seem
not to realize is that by its very
nature such an action would auto-
matically become a war of aggres-
sion in the eyes of the people we
are fighting. If we were to attack
Russia now, her already bighly ef-
ficient propaganda machine would
lose not five minutes in getting a
“we told you so” approach to her

people and the rest of the world
a million times a day. The result
of even so much as one $00-pound
bomb dropped on Moscow would
cause the people of Russia and her
satellites. to unite as they may
never do as long as there is any
doubt in their minds that Ameri-
cans and the Western nations are
really the warmongers that Stalin
would have them believe.

In the second place, we must con-
sider the effect: that such a war
would have on our own people. No
one will deny that even if the mili-
tary men, the President, and the
State Department combined could
convince the Congress to declare
war on Russia, millions of Ameri-
cans would oppose the action mere-
ly on ethical grounds. It would be
hard to convince these people that
such a war would be a defensive
measure; most Americans think of
war in connection with the U. S.
as a Hold-off-and-whip-the-aggres-
sors sort of action in which we have
no choice but to take up arms in the
face of an immediate danger. It
seems that the average citizen does
not believe the the U. S. has ever
initiated a war of aggression, any
knowledge that he“might have of
the Mexican or Spanish-American
warts notwithstanding, and he
doesn’t want to start now.

Let us, however, presuppose that
we did not have to consider these
first two points. Would it even
then be advisable, feasible, or prac-
tical to declare war on Russia?

Still the answer must be no; the
reasons for it are simple and irre
futable. All one has to do is to look
around him to realize that the

American people are tired, sick to

death of war and everything it in-
volves. In a period of little more
than ten years, we have been in-
volved in two wars_ which have
played hob with our economy, low-
ered our morale, and depleted our
manpower no little. If Russia
started dropping atomic bombs on
us today, there is no doubt that
the American people would unite
and give their utmost to another .
great war effort; but were we to
attack the U.S.S.R. first, the spark
necessary to carry the war to a
successful conclusion would not be
existent. And the result of such a
situation would leave us weaker
and more liable to attack from a
world which considered us danger-
ous to universal peace.

There are, of course, many other
factors which must be considered
before deciding on the practicality .
of a preventive war, but those men-
tioned above seem to be the most
important. War is war, no matter
what adjective is prefixed to modi-
fy it, and the world as well as the
U. S. seems to have reached the
state of diminishing returns in this
respect.

Russia can be and is constantly
irritating and infuriating, and has
caused more than one American
diplomat to throw up his hands
in disgust and anger. But it seems
tight now that the only thing we
can do is to raise our collective

boiling points a few degrees and
try to pursue the Cold War as

effectively as we can. By these
measures we should be able to
force the U.S.S.R. to make the
first big move, which should place
world opinion on our side.

Today’s College Men Seem To Be Drawing
Same Color Line As Their Grandfathers

College men today draw the color
line at about the same place their
great-grandfathers did at the close
of the Civil War. A poll taken
by the Davidsonian showed that
despite heavy industrialization and
urbapization in Dixie, northern and
western students practice much
more racial equality.

Negroes on the great majority of
those campuses enter every phase
of college activity om an equal
standing with white students. This
included rooming, showering, eat-
ing and playing on athletic teams
with white students according to
the returned questionnaire.

One campus reported it had
segregated women’s dormitories,
but said these were being elim-
inated.

[The one area in which segregation
is still practiced is that of social fra-
ternities. Many of the national fra-
ternities have color clauses restrict-
ing membership.

At many Northern and Western

-aniversities Negroes have their own

fraternity whose membership in-
cludes Negroes, Chinese, Jews
Catholics and Nisei.

By JOHN OTTLEY

An interesting fact was the
almost universa] amazement
that conditions could be any
different in the South. Moet of
the writers took it upon them-
selves to stir up half-remem-
bered speeches on equality and
the doctrine of inalienable right.
It made their letters seem like
miniature political speeches.
Though most colleges above the

Mason-Dixon line have no on-
campus racial problems, some were
plagued by unfair treatment from
local merchants both in sales and
employment practices.

Playing teams composed of both
Negroes and white: is a confirmed
practice in coffeges out of Dixie.
Students are not segregated in the
stadium or in auditoriums during
concert and lecture series.

The University of Chicago
which has several Negro facul-
ty members and the dean of
men reports that one or two
successful inter-racial marriages
among the students.

Those states which were “border
states” during the Civil War are
still on the fence. Letters from Ken-

tucky and Kansas, for example,
answered about half the questions
“Yes” and the remainder negative-

Negroes are often invited to join
various campus honorary societies
on the non-Southern campuses.
Many of the universities revealed
that several top student body of-
fices are held by Negroes.

Generally the poll showed the

colleges in the North and West

have reached a goal of reacting
to the Negro as an individual
vather than classifying him as

& race.

The students there do not seen
to grasp the real essence of the
South’s problem since the Northern
Negro is on the whole a more edu-
cated and cultured man than his
brother in Dixie.

In fairness, it must be stated that
teplies from Southern colleges
showed interest in the problem if
not comprehension. Students in the
South are still influenced by tradi-
tion which need not apply as the
answers from Northern colleges in-
dicate. In some cases they are also
hamstrung by state laws.
