PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF ..................cccccccccees BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ...........0......0.05 ALEX GOLEY
Associate Editors --...-........ Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,
George McMurray
Maneging Editors .........- Larry Dagenhast, Frank Hanshaw,

John Ottley
Art Editor—Don Mahy Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager -------.------------ Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager ...-..----------------------- Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager --..------~-----.------~--------- Bob Poston
Collection Manager -..------.------.--------------- Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager ~.--.-.------------------ Preston Chaney

es
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Ettectiveness Ot Spring Services
Proves Discussion Emphasis Pays

As was the hope and prediction of The Davidsonian last
week, this year’s Spring Services proved to be one of the most
effective special service series in quite some years on the campus.
Two. reasons can be pointed to for this success. The first was
the speaker chosen, the second group discussion emphasis. Rev.
Ben L. Rose, three and one half years’ chaplaincy putting him
at a great advantage in speaking to young men, captured his
audience in a manner that made them reluctant co witness his
Wednesday departure. He was a man’s preacher. ,

The dorm-fraternity discussion groups were made to order
for Davidson. It is surprising that the accent wasn't put there
earlier. The Davidson student body is one which balks at too
many sermons—and not without some reason. Even a fresh thing
grows stale with too much exposure to air. Substituting the post-
supper hour ‘‘bull’’ session for an evening talk brought the serv-
ices to the student on a personal level, where he could partici-
pate and benefit from the give and take of the conversation.

May we add to our congratulations to the special services
committee an entreaty to next year's group to follow the plan
of their predecessors.

Red Cross Double Barrel Drive

Deserving of Double Donation

Two drives—through not for the Red Cross—were kicked
off in Davidson today.

One was begun in actuality with presentation of the op-
portunity to the student body to give to the Annual Red Cross fi-
nancial drive. The other drive. Davidson's second year, is the Red
Cross blood drive which will be launched after Spring Holidays.
The blood drive began today actually did begin today in that ap-
peal for donors has been made.

Like the Army and the government, the Red Cross, from
the very vastness of its nature of operation, is subject to much
abusive rumor. That organization continues, however, to be the
world’s greatest, relief organization; it is first on the battlefields,
at the scene of disaster, and in response to society's need.

The American Red Cross needs $85,000,000 to do its busi-
ness next year—approximately one-fourth of that figure will
go toward providing assistance for our Armed Forces. Mecklen-
burg County's total, exclusive of Charlotte, is $4,100. As col-
lege-citizens of the county, we are presented an opportunity and a
responsibility to contribute to that total. Spared the misery and
heartache of war and disaster, we can share in the aid to those
who literally cry out for help.

Study Handicap For Aftlictees
Ot Love Sickness Proposed

“In the spring man's mind turns to what he has been think-
ing about all winter—income taxes.” To the underprivileged
millions who are not college students this may be true, but to
the eds and co-eds it ain't taxes that cause trouble. It's love.

This year the problem is no worse than before, but now
we propose to bring it to the attention of some members of the
faculty in whom the sap no longer seems to rise. With all due
apologies to their plumbing apparatus there seems to be a great
deal of ice water where blood was meant to be.

Equipped with this cooling system it is often hard for
gentlemen of the local brain trust to realize that there are a new
set of variable factors conflicting with studies which come into
play around the middle of March. These variables usually ap-
pear in sweaters and skirts and move progressively to bathing
suits and sun tans. They have an effect upon the student inversely
proportional to the distance and directly proportional to the
shape.

Since some persons are affected more than others it seems
only fair to give those bothered by these seasonal’ fluctuations
some sort of handicap. With the honor system as it now stands,
a simple pledge could be required to accredit a student's claim.

Before reviews a handkerchief check could be held to as-
certain whether a student was one of the few bothered by the
seasonal affliction. If one square inch of lipstick stain could be
demonstrated an automatic bonus of ten points would be awarded
on the test. .

Naturally, married students would not be eligible unless
a family is in prospect. Pinned boys would be given only five

“extra points. In cases of extreme competition or when the girl is
over four hundred miles away perhaps an extra point or two
would be in order.

This is merely a suggestion and it is not mandatory that
the executive committee carry out the policy until they have had
time to consider. it thoroughly. Student opinion seems strongly
in favor of such a move. Furthermore it would be another step
toward keeping Davidson at the forefront as to the most progres-
sive school in the South—N.S.B.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“

"5. BY AN ANONWROUS MILITARY Genus

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Mizelle, Proctor Split Laurels;

Troope Takes Thespis’ Wreath

Fancy a novel about Chicago
or Buffalo, let us say, of Nash-
ville, Tennessee!
NASHVILLE—A city, port of
delivery, and the capital of the
State of Tennessee, is on the
Cumberland River and on the
N.C.&S.L. and the L.&N. rail-
roads. The city is regarded as
the most important educational
center in the South.

I stepped into his room at 9:15
Having searched thesaurus in vain
for adjectives, I must, as a substi-
tution, hie me to a comparison in
the form of a recipe.

Take of knotted orange tapestry
4 parts; Stein’s number 11, sallow
old man, 7 parts; flu, 3 parts; to
bacco smoke, one part; aeschylu-
sian dew-drops, S parts; o’ervault-
ing ambition, 10 parts; P. T. Bar-
num, one part; Jose Ferrer, 2 parts;
David Garrick 3 parts. Mix.

The mixture will give you an
approximate conception of Vance
Mizelle's dormitory room. It is not
so nostalgic as the Palace nor as
squalid as the Globe; but ‘tis
enough—"twill serve.

I was there; I could hardly be-
lieve it, but I was there. And talk-
ing to me, to me understand, just
a cub reporter out on his first big
assignment, was Vance Mizelle, Be-
lieve me, I was scared, but it soon
turned out that the old axiom about
famous people’s being easy to talk

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

Mizelle, was as friendly as could
be, helpful, encouraging and not at
all aware, I am confident, of his
standing as the winner of one of
two supporting role awards in
Nashville last weekend.

No, all his talk, believe me, this
reporter tried to make him talk
about himself, but he just wouldn't
—all his talk was about how well
the rest of the cast did, and how it
was the cast of seven that won
Davidson the first place cup in the
Alpha Psi Omega dramatic con-
test at George Peabody State
Teachers ‘College. Blushing mod-
estly, Vance stuttered, “we did a
beautiful job...”

The seven who made the trip
were, to quote Mizelle again, three
T's, two P's and two M’s. Thinking
this some sort of. stage lingo, and
not wanting to reveal my stupidity,
I kept my peace, but found out
later that he meant, for the lay
reader's benefit, Tink Taylor, Tad
Currie, Ted Daniels, Dick Per-
kins, Howard Proctor, the winner
of the other supporting role award,
Mac Doubles and he whom I am
talking about. That makes seven.

Proctor, whose star, understand,
is equally as bright on the horizon
as Mizelle’s, was not available for
comment. Vance assured me that
he gave a magnificent performance,
an unforgettable, a truly superb job.
“Other wise,” reasoned Vance, “how

to was true. Vance, that is, Mr.| could he ever have won such an

ene,

FROM THE EDITORS MAILBOX:

ward?”
Concerning the trip itself, Vance
was enthusiastic about the support
given to the project in Nashville.
It was obvious from what he said
that the idea of Theater in the
Round is catching on with a solid
basis in dramatic groups all over
the country. And entirely fitting it
is, too, that Davidson should be
taking the lead in the movement,
Theater in the Round, besides
possessing technical and artistic ad-
vantages that intrigue the actor and
producer, is a very effective and re-
vealing test of our own ability to
appreciate something besides tele-
vision and condensations, purple
philosophy and yellow journalism.
It demands an imagination far and
above that required by the con-
ventionally staged production.
This revival of the oldest form
of the theater is a welcome one,
and a heartening indication that
oerhaps imagination, and its off-
spring, conversation, initiative, in-
genuity, are not dead but dormant.
The importance of Theater in the
Round at Davidson, and its results,
go a lot further than having the
Dome Room painted, or winning a
first prize at Nashville. It is a test,

a very important test for students
and faculty and administration, of
whether we realize and utilize the
potentialities of a well-trained im-
agination.

Alumni Praise Wrestlers For Performance

The Davidsonian
Davidson College
Davidson, N. C.

I have just returned from one
of the most enjoyable sports events
I have ever seen. The “timelight”
attraction of this date may lead you
to believe that I am referring to
the basketball tournament, but that
is not so.

With two other alumni, I at-
tended the Southern Conference
Wrestling Tournament in Lexing-
ton, Va. The tournament itself was
good, and the finalists in almost
every class were close matches
which means that the spectator is
well rewarded for his coming.

My letter to you is directed,
however, as an effort to compli-

ment the coach and the team mem-
bers for their conduct and per-
formance in one of the best tourna.
ment showings that Davidson has
had in a long time. With a crip-

pled team (only six men) and a
will to win your team captured the
third place and could easily have
been second but for a few breaks,

An improved and eager group of.

men were there this weekend and
they deserve a fine hand from us
alumni and you students as well.
The spirit and sportsmanship of
your men was testified not only by
their action on the mat, but also
the attitude of other teams and
coaches toward them. I wish that
T could make remarks about in-
dividual contestants, but perhaps
that is not the thing to do in an
editorial letter; therefore let it suf-
fice to say that the improvement
in afl of the members of the team
whom I saw wrestle was marked
over their performance last year,
and the possibilities for next year’s
team are to me very high. Davide
son cannot expect to defeat a team

whose membership is composed of

approximately two strings of
scholarship men, but it has” sur-
prised many spectators, and I
might add coaches, too, this year,
From experience I can say that
participation in a sport of the quali-
ty of wrestling as it exists at Da-
vidson and with the calibre of men
that compose the team there can
be nothing less than an edifying

perience for a pergon who wishes
to grow in character and physical
proportions. I covet this experi-
ence for more and more of the stu-
dent body.

Let me again say, and I am cer-
tain that I speak for those who
were with me, that my hat goes off
to a fine team, a fine captain, and
a fine coach. Congratulations are
apropos for the team and the
school that produced so fine a
group of men. Best wishes for the
future.

Sincerely yours

ontribute to the Red Cross!

FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1952

NAT DANIEL:

world today can be attributed to
one of the strongest aspects of
Original Sin—Selfishness. If seems
to be a fundamental weakness of
human nature that pervades all
walks of life: every human institu-
tion, every aspect of man’s rela-
tionship with his fellowman, with
himself, and even with God, And
it doesn’t take much to carry self-
fishness too far, where in this ex-
treme for it becomes in good old
Westminister Confession termin-
ology, Sin.

But Selfishness as it is com-
monly preached against (or,
more accurately, should be
preached against) in Southern
Presbyterian pulpits, has a di-
rect bearing on our everyday
living—both with ourselves and
with God. No true Christian
can really rationalize Selfish-
ness and Christianity, though
many professing Christians do
just that every single day. And
even atheistic or humanistic
gtoups condemn selfishness as
a stumbling block to human
progress.
Now in America today, not ex-

cluding our little bit of hemmed-
in heaven, selfishness breeds many
evils which prevent us from acheiv-

Christianity

A good bit of the evil in the, ing close harmony with God, with

our fellowmen, or both.
Selfishness, essentially, gives us a
distorted sense of values; an out-of-
focus point of view. We look. at
the world in terms of how it can
pay off in terms of material and
personal benefits: money, power,
money, prestige, etc., and we forget
the things which go to make us
better humans, better citizens, and
better Christians: Henesty, char-
acter, integrity, generosity, helpful-
ness, love for our fellowman
—all those things which make for a
more integrated personality. This
distortion of values leads us to
channel our energies and talents in
directions which may pay off for
us at the present, but which may
lead us to-dissipation, to degener-
acy, and finally to destruction.
Then, too, if we ourselves are self-
fish, we shall more than likely as-
sume that our neighbor is selfish
also, The result: we watch his every
move, ‘we misconstrue his actions,
we may even come to actively dis-
like him.. We probably never grow

to hate him, but we certainly aren’t
as kindly inclined toward him as we
might be had we practiced true
Christian altruism.

In America today we are

vs. Selfishness;
A Twentieth Century Dilemna

treading on dangerous ground,
More and more, as the stan-
dard of living goes up, as the
controlling minorities get fat-
ter and more comfortable, as
the intangibles of life become
less and less respected, and as
the almighty Dollar replaces
God in our lives. Selfishness
and greed and avarice take hold
of our bodies, then our minds,
and finally our souls. And past
ages should be an example.
As nations have become rich
and powerful and corrupt, they
have become lazy and degener-
ate, and as the brave warriors
have become selfish scavengers,
their defenses weakened and
fell, and finally their cities
crumbled into dust.

Here at Davidson we're supposed
to be exceptional, almost angelic,
but most of us don’t even try. As
the world becomes more complex
and more troubled, it behooves each
of us to look at ourselves, or pur-
poses, and our values, and our
Christianity, and ask, “Are we
living the type of life which will
best prepare us for the task of
leading humanity out of destruc-
tion and back to the God from

whence he came.

Aren’t Missions A Form of Western Imperialism?”

(Fourth in the series of
questions Students Ask About |
Missions. This summary made
by A. K. Garrison.)

“Accept a ruler and you ac-
cept his religion.” This in a sen-
tence describes the attitude of many
toward the colonization of the last
century. Thus it has been that
political control, cultural domina-
tion and Christianity were imposed
on an area in one big bundle and
natives were not able to distin-
guish the ruthless and power hun-
gry exploiters from the Christian
missionary. Both came to disrupt
their previous social and economic
conditions no matter what their
motive. Western nations were pic-
tured as going into an underprivil-
edged area with a Bible in one hand
and a rifle in the other,

Conditions have now changed in
these “backward” areas due to edu-
cation and modernization. They are
no longer content under a foreign
power; a nationalistic fire rages
among them and Christianity still.
connected with western political
control, imperialism, is being thrown
off as well as political domination.
Missionaries are scrutinized with
suspicion in many ports as possible
“subversives” to national power.

“Yes,” they say, “let Christianity
go, after all it's really just religious
garnishing for the political and
social power for the west.”

What shail we say to these ac-
cusations? Is the Christian mission
an instrument of imperialism, con-
scious or unconscious, or is it
something above and apart from
social and political prejudices?

We must quickly admit that
Christian mission -has often taken
on a tinge of cultural superiority
and the missionary who comes to
live among natives with plumbing,
strange clothes and servants creates
many vague misgivings; for, how
much of his power is spiritual and
how much due to the awe of the
natives for his trappings.

Christianity, however, is not an
abstract philosophical system which
can be transferred from one culture
to another without its carrying over
the influences of the previous. Thus
the problem of the missionary is to
impart his Lord as he knows Him,
a national: Jesus, to an area of dif-
ferent national spirit so that He
will neither be a foreigner nor be
distorted by pre-Christian patterns
of thought. He must in addition
urge each young church to make
its contribution to the Church Uni.

versal,

The Christian mission has en-
couraged each church, young and
old, to make full contribution to the
whole church because its message is
not from one nation, but a gospel
from God to every country. Becayse
it is a message from God it ques-
tions whether native religions have
the answer to sin and guilt. A mis-
sionary is not concerned whether
a native wears trousers or necktie;
his own aim is to enable them to
find Christ for their own. Is it im-
perialism to share with those who
seek in vain the truth in which we
have found life?

Missions have served to counter-
balance the effects of imperialism.
Today with our widespread adver-
tisements and movies the material-
istic phase of western culture has
destroyed the supports of many
primitive and non-Christian faiths.
Therefore the Christian mission has ”
an even greater responsibility to
keep abreast with imperialism and
give to these floundering peoples
the peace and security in Christ.

The Christian mission has only
this aspect of imperialism; its goal
is total world conquest, but it is
a conquest of love and salvation
in Christ as Savior.

College Graduates Discover Good Jobs
In Retail Grade According To Bureau

It has recently been discovered
by Bishop Brown, Director of the
Research Bureau for Retail Train-
ing of the University of Pittsburgh,
that many college graduates have
not thoroughly investigated various
career opportunities and their fit-
ness for them. An all too often for-

By JERRY LAVINSKY

gotten job that many college grad-
uates are very well suited for, but
rarely thing of, is that of retailing.

There are few industries in the
United States today that offer the
variety of job opportunities that
retailing does. Recent statistics
show that there are over one and

FROM _THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX:

Cartoonist Is Reprimanded;
Hallowed Home Defended

March 7,

Editor, Davidsonian

Honor has been irrevocably dam-
aged today by your infamous car-
toonist, Benedict A. Mahy. The
sly, underhanded intimation of this
insidious pen-scratcher was that
RUMPLE is somewhat less than
paradisiacal. May we, the under-
signed, point out that the floors of
each room are tilted toward the
center solely as an aid to the jani-
tor, and that no breath check is
ever necessary for anyone who has
succeeded in climbing the stairs.
Moreover, RUMPLE is both light
and airy—tight when the windows
are open and airy when they are
closed. We will venture no direct
rebuttal concerning the ants, since
there are dormitory regulations
concerning pets. However, the il-
lustration of the blowtorch is the
final all-crushing blow. We have
found that a simple newspaper
firebrand, preferably Davidsonian,
is sufficient to break up any con-

gregation.

We righteously call upon the
combined, long fomented wrath of
all lost generations of RUMPLE
RATS to join in our vengeance of
this ineradicable smirch, and say
fie on Mr. Mahy!

Signed,

ALLAN D. MACY

FIELDING D. RUSSELL, JR.

HARRY PATTERSON

HAMA T. GHEESLING, JR.

WILSON HENDRY

CHARLIE HARRELL

HOBART C. MARTIN, JR.

GILBERT G. GRAGG, JR.

WILLIAM G. EDWARDS

DEAN GOODSELL, JR.

ZEB McMILLAN

ALBERT MAY

CURTIS ELLISON

WM. PAUL McALLISTER

MAURICE WADDELL, JR.

FRED SAMRA

GEORGE E. MELTON

PAUL PINCKNEY

CHUCK MILLARD

three quarter million retail stores
in the U. S. and they vary tre-
mendously in type and size, Grad-
uates have a choice between work-
ing for a huge department store or
running a small store of their own.
In a letter to college graduates
Mr, Brown said, “Whether your
geographical preferences are North,
East, South or West, whether you
prefer a large city or a small town,
you can find a rewarding career in
retailing limited largely by your
own initiative.”

Not all the opportunities are in
retailing itself. Other opportuni-
ties such as manufacturers selling
to and through retailers, advertising
agencies, newspapers, fashion maga-
zines and a dozen other fields rate
retail experience highly.

There are usually 300 to 400
key executive positions in a large
department store. Since college
Staduates are in time with the
generation whose needs are the
Greatest, many of these positions
are open to the graduate. These
Positions include such varied and
interesting work as buying, sales
Promotion and advertising, person-
nel, accounting and control, and
the management of many sales sup-
porting operations such as delivery
and warehousing,

Over 30 years ago a group of
America’s leading merchants estab-
lished a unique graduate school at
the University of Pittsburgh. This
school was set up for the purpose
of training college graduates for
the many career opportunities in

(Continued On Page Four)
