PAGE TWO

Che Davidsonian

extents

Sreason’s Greetings

Zo The Student Body
Faculty and Administration

Step Taken In Right Direction;
Students Meet With Calendar Com.

A recent letter from Dean C. K. Brown and the tone o
this letter has strengthened our belief that all was not lost in
the recent calendar schedule conflict. It has reassured us of what
we believe to be a sincere desire on the part of the administration
to create a better understanding among students and faculty alike
on matters that directly concern the students. Addressed to the
five student committee members the letter is as follows:

Gentlemen: -

The Faculty Committee on the College Calendar must
fix the calendar for 1953-54 within the next few days.
If you can meet in the Faculty room at 3:40 Friday after-
noon, December 12, to confer with us, we shall be glad.

Sincerely yours, |
C. K, BROWN
Dean of Faculty.

It will be the function of the Davidsonian to inform the
student body on meeting times of the committee and to report
its activities and discussions. Of primary importance will be the
duty of the individual members of the student body to partici-
pate in the discussions of current issues or to present plans for
‘improvements. It will be an opportunity to agree or disagree
with school policy or to openly discuss any conflict chat
might arise during the course of the year.

This is the most recent opportunity that the students have
had to show that they are mature thinking individuals and not
the immature prep school boys they oft times seem to be. The
students must be given an opportunity to shoulder responsibility
here at Davidson if the college intends to fulfill this integral
function in education.

It must train its men to think clearly and to meet the
challenge of the outside world. This cannot be done by im-
posing upon them a sheltered life.

It is a real challenge to the student body to put aside its
complacent attitude and shoulder some responsibility for a
change.

The finding of this committee must be presented to the
administration for satisfactory results, since this is a discussion
group and not the final say so on any matter. The editortal
staff of the Davidsonian will work in conjunction with the
committee to aid in its functioning.

Faculty-student committee chairman Dr. E. A. Beaty plans
a meeting of the committee early in January at which time its
purposes will be set forth and such topics as the cut system
and review and exam schedule will be discussed.

The committee will succeed only to the degree that the
faculty and students desire. If the students show no interest in
the type of education and curriculum they are receiving, this
committee will be no ‘more than a meeting of Signify Nothing
and one of the greatest opportunities for promoting co-opera-
tion and understanding between students and faculty will be lost.

Johnson Defends London From
Visiting Davidsonians Abroad

In regard to the recent little disquisition upon London
which appeared among these hallowed pages, a better descrip-
tion, and more scholarly as well, was written by the immortal
Dr. Samuel Johnson in the year 1763. Indeed. he seems to be
speaking to the author of last week's ‘‘Davidsonian Abroad,”
when he says:

(Consistent with our policy
of keeping in touch with con-
’ temporary thought on various
subjects at. other universities
and colleges here and about,
we offer this week what we
think to be a pertinent sample
concerning Carl Snavely's res.
ignation as UNC grid coach.
The author is Sports Editor
Biff Roberts of the Daily
Tar Heel, and recently defeated
candidate for editor-in-chief.
His column, “Down in Front,”
is a regular feature of the Daily
Tar Heel.—T.A.W.

By BIFF ROBERTS

An unfitting close came to one
of the best coaching records in the
nation last Tuesday night when
Cari Grey Snavely announced his
resignation as head football coach
at Carolina. For 26 years as a head
tutor he had been at the top of
the coaching roster. It's a shame
that he had to bow out after a
‘season that had been shackled with
ill luck from September to Novem-
ber. .

Until the’ 1952 season, when his
denouncement began, the. Old Man
had a brilliant record. His teams
had won 140, lost 57, and tied 14.
In the years between 1946 and 1949
he had sent three teams to bowl
games. The nation acclaimed him
as one of the best in the game.

But in the three years from that

°

“Talking of London, he observed, Sir, if you wish to have a
just notion of the magnitude of this city, you must not be satisfied
with seeing the great streets and squares, but must survey thé in-
numerable little lanes and courts. It is not in the showy evolutions
of buildings, but in the multiplicity of human habitation which are
crowded together, that the’ wonderful immensity of London consists.

“I have often amused myself with thinking how different a place
London is to a different people. They, whose narrow minds are
contracted to the consideration of some one particular pursuit, view
it only through that medium. A politician thinks of it merely as the
seat of government in its different departments; a grazier, as a
vast market for cattle; a mercantile man, as a place where a prodi-
gious deal of business is done upon Change; a dramatic enthusiast,
as the grand scene of theatrical entertainments; a man of pleasure,
as an assemblage of taverns, and the great emporium for ladies of
tasy virtue. But the intellectual man is struck with it, as compre-
hending the whole human life in all its variety, the contemplation
of which js inexhaustible.”

Need more be said?—J. L. H., H. T. L.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

As I sat there eating peanuts in
the side walk cafe on the Champs
Elysses, I suddenly realized that
I was in Europe, in Paris. And such
was the impression of my whole
trip this summer. Nothing seemed
so much out of the ordinary, but
all down to earth and quite con.
ceivable, © ‘

Of course there were times like
the week that I spent in Italy with-
out secing a single American, or
like the week in Germany when I
could never find someone who
could speak English when I really
needed him, when I was very well

COLLEGE YEAR : .
aware that I was in a foreign coun.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ~..-..-..---.. a --- Frank Hanshaw try, and a country very different
BUSINESS MANAGER ........-..-------------0- Jack Hobson || from my own. But for the great
ASSISTANT EDITOR .-....-.-....-----------.. -.-- John Ottley || ™ajority of the time, I never felt
: . . too far away from home.
Associate Editors ....--.. -«.----- Brinkley, Harter, Hope, So many things happen on a

Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.

Managing Editors .....----._-____ Hasselt, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor —......-----_. ww wenccece wecccecene Dick Roper

trip like this that it is quite dif-
ficult to try to pick out one or two
incidents as the most interesting

News Editor—D. M. Smith Feature Editor—T. A. Williams and the ones that I should talk
Arts Editor—Mahy Assignments—Strand. about.
Photographer -_.--.----.---------- ecacececesccesecceee Simons Two visits that I remember quite

Assistant Business Manager ~........--...------.-....-- Poston
Advertising Manager .-.-27-.--._...--------.------.--. Hasty
Circulation Manager .-...-----..--.---.-.--. ~+-en--- Nicholson
Collection Manager -~.-...--..--...... accceeescaceeee Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

I attended at the French Ambassa-
dor’s home and the trip to the Vat-
ican to see the Pope. I had gotten
a letter of introduction from my
congressman who is a_ personal
friend of Ambassador Dunn, and
it did the trick. I can’t say which

vividly were the small party that'

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Twe Batre of Britanw —in wich WeR MATESTY’S
LOYAL PIGEONS DEFEND TRAFALGAR @ DAUARE BY REPULSING
A VISITING COLONIAL RUSTIC , A* DAVIOSONIAN ABROAD.”

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Sampling Of U.N.C. Sentiment|There Are But 6
Shows Snavely More Lamented

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

final great season in 1949, the Old
Man and the NC declined. In that
span of time his teams won but
seven games—what would be con-
sidered good for one Snavely sea-
son. The wolves started howling
after the 1950 season. This season
it became. unbearable. The Old
Man stepped down. His reasons
weren't announced, but there’s no
dowbt the glum alums had some-
‘thing to do with it. Coaching has
been Snavely’s living for 26 years.
A man doesn’t treat his livelihood
that lightly. ;

But what ever his reason for
stepping out, and whether you like
his leaving ‘or not, the fact remains
that he’s gone and the job of hiring
a new coach is already moving.
Snavely was criticised greatly dur-
ing the past three seasons—for his
coaching, handling of the boys, run-
ning of the team during a game,
etc, Perhaps some complaints were
justified. But one thing that can
not be taken away from the Old
Man, regardless of his losing streak,
was his fairness on and off the
field. He played his cards straight.
When one of his boys needed help
Snavely could always be counted
on to lend a helping hand.

Snavely’s story is almost one 2
riches.to-rags. In the Justice-
Weiner days he was King Carl, but
try to remember how many times
he’s been called that in the past

DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD:

Europe’s Many Sights Overshadowed By Five
Week Stay In Bruay, French Communist City

By HUBERT CANNON

T enjoyed more, the party or the
look his secretary gave me when
she told me of my invitation after
saying only five minutes before
hand that the ambassador was a
little too busy to sce me.

The Pope wasn’t quite as per-
sonal, but I enjoyed seeing him
anyway.

There are so many other things
that will stand out in my mind, the
week I spent with two Italian black
marketeers on the Italian border,
Macbeth in Stratford-on-Avon, the
Swiss Alps, the German train sta-
tion benches, Trafalgar Square, the
canals of Amsterdam, the Eiffle
Tower, the London subways, Euro-
pean trains, the Black Forest, the
waiter’s look when you ask for
water or milk, Place Pigalle, Les
‘Follies Begere, Comidie Francais,
the London pub that closes at
10:30, wooden shoes, the boat trip
down the Rhine, and so much
more that I could easily fill this
paper; but let me just sum it
all up by saying that it was quite
an experience.

But (he experiences that I had
traveling were overshadowed by
those of my five weeks at a World
Council of Churches work camp at
Bruay in Northern France.

Bruay, Pas-de-Calais, is in the
middie of the coal mining region

a

rom
a
1

Wi

STE

three years. Back in the late forties
he had men, tempered by war serv-
icc, playing for him. When the
last of the vets left he was con-
fronted with the problem of, going
back to building hoys, fresh out
of high school, into college stars.
Somewhere in that transition period
something missed.

He's been trying to build those
boys into stars during the past
three years but the Carolina teams
haven't materialized. Whether it
was his fault, the players’ fault,
or the assistant coaches’ fault will
have to be decided in the next sea-
son—under a new head coach.

Snavely has been offered a po-
sition with the Department of Ath-
letics and Physical Education, but
whether he stays is still to be
answered. His love for coaching
may send him to another school.
Then again, because of his age, he
may stay here. The answer rests
with Snavely himself.

Nothing is more disheartening
then seeing a champion § going
down. Snavely contributed great
records to Carolina’ in his 10-year
reign as coach. Whether you are
sorry to see him go of are in the
group that feels it was time for a
change, you must give the Old
Man his credit. His contribution to
Carolina has been a great one. Our
sometimes too-short memories
shouldn’t forget that.

of France, and thus in the center
of the French Communist Party.
In an effort to reach the working
class and also to relieve the severe
housing shortage, especially for men
who do not have families, the
church was repairing two old build-
ings into a “foyer de mineur,” or
what we in America would prob-
ably call a YMCA in which young
coal miners could live. We had
eight countries represented among
our twenty-five campers, German
ex-soldiers, a Danish boy whose
father had been murdered by SS
troops, Dutch, French, etc. In this
varied group you could.get a bird’s
eye view of Kurope, and many of
the discussions and bull sessions
that we had gave me my most val-
uable insights into the European
situation. To say the least, I was
shocked by what I learned. Never
have two peoples had such mis-
taken ideas and impressions about
each other as do Europeans and
Americans.

I could see Communism as I had
never seen or even dreamed of it
before. This town of 35,000 makes
its living from the coal mines, and
nine out of ten of the miners vote
‘Communist. Everywhere were
signs, billboards, newspapers, and
books, that reminded the American
that he was in Communist terri-

people will spend approximately 8

|THE FREE LANCE:

a The Big Noise About Blood
57 ||Drive Is In Ve

Catch phrases such as “It doesn't
hurt at all” and “You will hardly
miss it’ have been permeating the
campus this week with almost sick.
ening «density. Accompanying these
are books of slight but artful dis-
dain at those members of our hap-
ply family who simply can’t or do
not care to give blood for one
reason or another.

It's amusing how to main-
tain prestige here one must do
the right things. This week a
pint of blood is the thing to do
to be one of the boys. One
must also memorize certain
jokes and humor lines to re-
peat to one’s neighbor while
standing in line.

All of this is unavoidable and
perhaps not too bad in the final
analysis, but we believe there are
some who deserve a bit more recog-
nition than a band aid on the right
elbow.

We refer not to the time-
giving Red Cross, local ladies,
ROTC Department or Scabbard
and Blade—time is a relative.
ly easy thing to give—but to
various unnamed students and
other volunteers who give raw

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1952

By JOHN OTTLEY

courage as well as blood.

Courage is a funny thing; it ap-
Pears in so many forms and is re-
puted to appear in equally as many
forms where it doesn’t that a per-
son is hard put to know just when
he is observing it. It surely was

try Poor Focus

another man is caught from
falling from his chair in a dexd
faint. Maybe ke's fluked be-
fore. but he kept coming back.
Two drives a year and you see
he's a junior.

These men probably had an idea

not exacted from every man who | before they entered the gym that

gave blood this week. Let's look
back a day, though.

The man in front of you in
the line shows you his record
and it looks normal or in other
words like your own. You chat
gaily through the line and
down the stairs to the donation
‘rooms. He gets ahead of you
and you see him again at the
refreshment table.

He is not so gay now. His head
is low and his face is a weak white.
Later they find it better to remove
him to an adjoining room to lie
down. He is obviously under ter-
tific mental and physical strain.

But his record was the same as
yours. He shouldn’t have had any
difficulty. Chances are the same
man had the same trouble last year
and his record showed this was his
fourth donation.

While you are thinking this

this was going to happen. Giv'ng
blood was much more than just
taking the time out to go down
there. Through your mind drift some
of the phrases from The Charge
of the Light Brigade.

You have no way of knowing
just how many men who give are
faced with the alternative of “feel-
ing it” a great deal.

“You go out a little quieter
than you came in until you
realize that the proper David-.
son man is seldom pensive in
public. You crack the appro-
priate jokes upon leaving the
donor center, but something
lingers in the back of your
mind.

Perhaps we might next Spring
direct some of our rantings away
from those who do not give and
toward some of those to whom it
is a real problem to give.

We Listen, And The Herald Angels Shout:

Due to the intricacies of nature's
cycle of seasons, every twelve
months we find ourselves face to
face with that holiday which is
called Christmas. Bells ring, lights
burn, the streets are decorated
with all manner of evergreen and
colored wreaths, store windows
haul out lavish displays, and in gen-
eral the cities and towns exude an
ethereal glow after dark, attesting
to the inventive and decorative
genius of modern man. The man
of the house ventures into the
mysteries of the forests, and inflicts
a series of ill-aimed ax strokes upon
a pine or cedar, finally managing to
subdue it by persistence and pure
force. While he is setting up his
conquered foe in one corner of the
living room and industriously be-
laboring it with all manner of tin-
sel, the Little Woman is busily
sacfileging the pictures of ancient
and honorable ancestors with great
sprays of evergreens which dangle
back and forth in their long-suf-
fering countenances. Some of the
more original folks adorn the whole
front yard with a regular pageant
of Santa Clauses, reindeer and
sleds. The merchants look about
happily; then, with hypocritical
good will, offer a $25 prize for the
best outdoor display, in hopes that

times that much to out-do the
Joneses next door, which is the
essence of the great American
competitive dream.

Each individual has his own par-
ticular conception of Christmas.
The idealists begin preparations
long before Thanksgiving and walk
about during the two weeks pre-
ceding Christmas Day in an hy.
pnotic trance, radiating joy and
good will. For them there is al-
ways one more present to be
bought, one more card to be sent,
one more person invited to the
party and one more family which
must be visited and wished a Merry
Christmas. These are the people
who are most aware of that in-
tangible substance which defies
definition: The Christmas Spirit.

The pessimists look forward to
Christmas with a great deal of
foreboding, expecting the worst
and going out of their way to find
it. One can find them in any de-
partment store huddled together
and commiserating about the in-
iquities visited upon them at each
Christmas time, and, if the press
ef the crowd is particularly bad
that day, some will be mumbling

tory, that he wasn't exactly among
friends. It was in the conversations
with workers, my visit down into
the coal mines themselves, the
arguments with the Communist
Party leaders of the city, the visits
to the homes of the workers, the
conditions that they live under, the
outlook that they have, it was in
all these that I saw communism.

I received so many varying im-
pressions this summer that it would
be quite impossible to summarize
them, but I don’t think that I will
forget them. It was just that the
peanuts tasted so much like South
Carolina peanuts.

By RONALD WILSON

ominously about committing sui-
cide. These people are the joy of
the merchants and clerks, for they
come in and will take anything at
any price as quickly as possible,
simply to return to the privacy of
their homes,

The realists strike a happy
medium between the idealists and
the pessimists. They stoke them-
selves up with phenoi-barbituate
and rather bravely make the rounds
of the stores and the parties, find-
ing to their own amazement that
it is quite an enjoyable experience.
The cynics are the ones that sneer
at Christmas and the Christmas
spirit, and refuse to drop anything
in the Salvation Army pot. They
have never seen the face of. a child
transfigured in the early morning
hours as he discovers his bounty
under the Christmas tree.

Too often we subjugate the

spiritual aspect of Christmas to
the commercial manifestations of

These Shirts come
in several styles,
including F. C.,
Spread collar and
B. D. Collar —

$2.95 to $3.95

More Days ’Til We Get Out

our good will for others. The size
and the expensiveness of a gift
takes precedent over the thought
behind it. We sometimes confuse
the spiritual elements which are
most important, and the symbolism
which we associate with Christ-
mas. The birth of Christ in itself
is not the important event that
we are celebrating; rather, it is the
humanitarian principles which He
created for the following genera-
tions. Increased tolerance, friendli.
ness, material help for the needy,
etc.—all these are outward mani-
festations of the spirit of humanity
which we associate with the teach-
ings of Christ. And it is the practice
of this humanity which creates in
each of us our own individual
Spirit of Christmas.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN
HOME!

_ with airplane cloth collar and cuffs

Airplane cloth is the fabric that has given men new
ideas about a shirt’s life. It wears so well that we guar-
antee the collar and cuffs will outlive the rest of- the
shist — or we'll give you a new shirt free! Features on

this shirt are super

all the way through — from the

gleaming white, full combed high count broadcloth

to the precision Wings tailoring. It’s a quality story

you and your budget like to hear. So come in and

stock up on your favorite collar styles. $3 6 5
e

118 South Tryon St.

ReronDants Ct

Charlotte, N. C.

