PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF -......--.--------------- Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER .......-...---...---.—--- Jack Hobson
Associate Editors --...-----.- Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope,
Ottley, Myers
Managing Editors -..-...--.....-- Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor ...-.-..-------------------------- Dick Roper
News Editor-—D. M. Smith Feature Editor—T. A. Williams
Arts Editor—Mahy Assignments—Strand.
Photographer ....------.---..-----.------------------- Simons
Assistant Business Manager ~ owen Poston
Advertising Manager ------------- .------.  .--------- Hasty
Circulation Manager ---..-- rn Wilkins
Subscription Manager -..-.-----------2---2-2-- nen ennee Chaney
Collection Manager ..--..--..-------------------------- Minter

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Better Davidsonian Depends On
Student Faculty Support

It is a great honor for us to serve as next year's editor of
the Davidsonian and to shoulder the responsibility of giving you
the type of paper Davidson College should have. We appreciate the
interest that so many of you have already shown by submitting
numerous suggestions and ideas for next year’s paper. The editors
and writers listed in the reorganized staff promise to form a
nucleus around which can be built one of the best Davidsomans
ever published. We certainly do not want this to be the only
staff of the paper, for we want each of you to take an active in-
terest in your paper, submitting from time to time articles and

suggestions to make this a better Davidsonian.

Bill White is to be commended for doing an excellent job
on the paper last year. We hope that we can follow in his foot

steps and continue to improve the standards of the paper.

The Davidsonian will have a definite policy next year which
will be expressed by the editor and the associate editors in this
editorial section of the newspaper. Other articles will be printed
on the editorial page expressing new ideas and opinions to create
interest and discussion ‘in the student body and this student
body opinion should be aired in letters to the editor. The Dauid-
sonian should be the formative source on the campus, bringing
news, events. feature stories, and well-rounded sports coverage
to the students. It should provide organizations with equal but

ample coverage of news.

I¢ must become representative of the student body. provide
a medium between the student body and faculty and adminis-
tration, and a means to express ideas and views for the better-
ment of any condition on the campus which needs improvement.
All sides of any issue which is of interest to its readers will be

presented on a fair and impartial basis.

It is our intention to work very closely with the student
body officers, student council, and YMCA as well as the many

other organizations on the campus.

We hope that closer faculty-student relations can be de-
veloped next year through the Davidsonian by faculty express-
ing opinion in the paper and through personal interviews. We
want to take-maximum advantage of first-hand coverage of news
concerning the student body as discussed in the faculty, executive.
and trustee meetings, so that the students will know the facts on
policies of these groups and any actions that effect the student

body as a whole.

This next year the staff will try to publish a paper that
commands the interest of its readers and will appeal to all the

members of the student body.

The Bottles Go Crashing Down

Doug Rice has spoken of a recent problem that has con-
fronted the student store. This is the big expense incurred in the
replacement of bottles that are taken to the students’ rooms
and later broken. In fact the total loss for the last six weeks was
55 cases. This has also caused the shortage of soft drinks be-
cause the companies will not fill orders unless empty bottles are

exchanged.

We all well remember the inconvenience and expense in-
volved in leaving bottle deposits last year when we wanted to
bring milk or soft drinks to our rooms. Few of us ever bothered

to return the bottles, losing the deposit.

Doug says that if this loss continues, ten cents will have
to be charged for each drink and a slip on each bottle given for

the five cents extra deposit on each bottle.

We, for one, thought it a very sensible change when the
present system was adopted—no deposits charged and the jani-
tors take the bottles back to the ‘‘stud.’’ But a few of the stu-
dents may cause this system to be again changed due to their
childish action of dropping bottles from the top floors of the
dorms to hear them crash on the concrete below. This has been

particularly bad between East and West.

We seriously hope that these few people will think a little
while about this unnecessary expense and the danger of hurting
fellow students, so that the system of no deposits can be kept

for the convenience of the majority.

What Is Your Opinion On
Between Semester Holidays?

The Davidsonian is printing on page one this week a pe-
tition from the president of the student body that will be sub-
mitted to the faculty and administration for consideration and

signed by various organizations and students.

The Davidsonian indorses this plan for holidays whole-
heartedly. We call on you, the student body, to write the paper
expressing your opinions to the faculty and administration on

this matter.

Reasons for such a vacation as enumerated in the petition
_seem only reasonable, for there are very few schools that begin

the second semester the very next day after exams.

_THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ribbon-Smuggling Gang Meets
Challenges Of Ivy League

Since knowledge is but sor-
rows spy, it is not safe to
know.—Sir W. Davenant.

Last week we discussed the moral
fibre, the intellectual stability and
the social consciousness of three
Ivy League institutions, Princeton,
Yale and Havard. We must look
to. them, we decided, if we were
ever to light our candle on the altar
of time. It is them whom we must
copy.

To review briefly, we saw that
three outstanding events had en-
nobled their reputations. At Prince-
ton, the student body had staged
a riot, blocked traffic and created
general havoc through their wailing
protestations on the proposed de-
crease in their janitorial force.
Yale's social relationships classes
had held a laboratory involving a
seventy-two man bicycle relay race
to Vassar, the qualifying stint for
each lap being the consumption of
a quart of beer.

Though we couldn't prove it, we
granted two Harvard undergrad-
uates the distinction of having
broken the Russian face-slapping
record of something over twenty
hours by slapping each others in-
somnious physiognomies for some-
thing under thirty hours.

The discussion closed with an ap-
peal to look caréfully to see if we

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

couldn't find a beam somewhere in
our own eyes before we became
content to idolize motes in other
folks’ eyes. It was phrased rather
as a challenge, a note of defiance
thrown in the face of general apathy
and languor. The challenge was
met!

But by whom? A student leader,
anxious to guide his fellows on to
greater glory? An ambitious asso-
ciate professor, eager to show his
mettle and advance in the ~world?
Nay, ignominy of ignominies, the
challenge was met rather by a sub-
versive, international ribbon-smug-
gling gang that seized the opportu-
nity to establish itself among the
student body and sabotage instaila-
tions until the general ribbon-
smuggling invasion scheduled soon.

This on-the-spot reporter, who
was really on the spot throughout
the Wednesday night uproar, racing
from dormitory to dormitory look-
ing frantically for evidence, was able
to ascertain that the planted revo-
lutionaries follow a mystical po-
tentate whom they called Mustapha
Hail’al.

There seemed to be some magic
significance, some hidden spur to
greater endeavor in the repetition
of the word. Several times during
the night, and at one time in par-
ticular on Rumple’s steps, a clever-

ly disguised Arabian ringleader was
seen to wave his hand in a mystical
half-moon motion and repeat the
dynameally inspiring “Hai‘al.’”” His
disguise was clever, indeed. Re-
search showed that for three weeks
preceding the incident he had posed
as a sunbather behind Rumple, and
had bleached his skin, which was
turning whiter ever day, by nine-
teen days of continuous exposure,

The rebellious hours were well
planned. The revolutionaries had
located military installations and at-
tacked these first. There are vary-
ing reports as to the extent of the
damage done to military property.
In fact, the only evidence that
served to prove the ribbon-smug-
glers’ part in the affair was the
quantity of secret code tape which
they discributed to the unwitting
student accomplices and deposited
at strategic points across the cam-
pus.

Gentlemen, the challenge that we
offered last week was sincere, but
even more sincere is this warning:
subversive elements are afoot, watch
your step, as well as theirs!!

A man lives not only his
personal life, as an individual,
but also, consciously or un-
consciously, the life of his
epoch and his contemporaries.

EDITOR’S MAIL:

Cover Influence

On Chapel Called
“Preposterous'’

Dear Frank:
I know that some things are best
if left uncommented upon, but T

can't suppress this—particularly
when I feel the particular thing I
am commenting upon could well
have been left unsaid.

Through. a few pretty reliable
branches of the grapevine, I have
learned of what I consider a very
warped criticism by some members
of the administration of Jim Fick-
eisen’s last magazine cover.

The cover, you will recall, was
a caricature of a row in chapel—one
fellow reading, another sleeping, an-
other throwing a paper airplane,
another taking issue with the
speaker.

As I understand it, one professor
commented to Jim that he (the
professor) thought it a very mean
trick toward the administration on
Jim’s part drawing a cover which
probably would do more to hurt
chapel conduct than any one act in
several years. |

Several other faculty members
apparently feel the same way,
whether proselytes of the first critic
I do not know.

But just openly I would like to
pose this question—how in the sam
hill could anyone really believe

(Continued On Page Four)

EXECUTIVE MEETING REPORT;

e

IDEAS OF HONOR SYSTEM REVISION PRESENTED

Ata recent meeting of the Execu-
tive Committee of the Faculty held
April 23, a member of the student
body was given the opportunity of
presenting a statement to those in
attendance at this meeting. This
statement has just been released
to the Davidsonian and was pre-
sented as follows: |
“Gentlemen of the Executive
Committee:

“1 am here this afternoon to
speak to you in hopes that here,
within this representative body of
the faculty, a movement may take

‘its beginning, which if successful I

am certain will produce a profound
joy in each and every one of us.

“The subject which I have for
your consideration concerns the
severity of punishment for infrac-
tions of our rules here at David-
son College; rules made by the
faculty as well as those made by
the student body which are for the
protection and welfare of all con-
cerned to be sure.

“Infractions of some of these
tules, most specifically those rules
-embodied in the Student Body
Honor System, as stated in the
Student Body Constitution, and the
rule with regards to use of alco-
holic beverages as imposed by the
faculty, infractions of these rules
in general are usually associated
with expulsion from the college, in
short, one is generally expelled from
the college if any one of these
specified rules is broken. Such a
punishment, gentlemen, accom-
panies the recipient for a great
number of years, if not for life,

not only in his reputation, but
what is mach more important, per-
haps also in his personality which
through a lack of understanding
can become somewhat embittered
in certain respects.

“I feel, and this is a personal
feeling although I am certain some
other persons have the same feel-
ing that there are some who would
be very sympathetic to such a feel-
ing—TI feel that his punishment for
a man’s first offense is too severe.

“Can we not find or create a
punishment for these infractions
other than expulsion? Can we not
give such a man who might break
a rule another chance? Can we
not give ourselves another chance
to work with him, to guide him, to
help him, to council him, to show
him the way. If he is perhaps such
a man that after his second chance
proves too weak to abide by the
rules of the college, then perhaps
we are not equipped to handle him
any further unless he learn his les-
son from some other source, mean-
ing that perhaps he be permitted to
return after some period of time.

“You see, we do not know with
which man to work until he breaks
a rule. We can not be aware of his
weakness until it is revealed except
that we do know, gentlemen, all
men can make mistakes—you and I
included.

“Perhaps we can take away a few
of his privileges such as the use of
a car should he have one; the use
of fraternity court should he be a
fraternity man; or perhaps we can
restrict him to the campus for a

definite but lengthy period of time.
What ever punishment might be
devised the man should understand
that should he fail to live up to the
punishment as well as the rules of
the college in the future, then he
should have to leave the college.

“These alternative suggestions
most probably do not meet with
your approval, but I beseech you,
gentiemen, I am very confident that
if we work together enlisting the
support and work of others that we
can find or create, as I have said,
a punishment which will prove sat-
isfactory, leaving expulsion for a
man’s second major offense. Per-
haps even after such method of
punishment that might be in-
augurated we can give the man a
choice of the two, with the sincerest
hope that he take what I would
personally term the less severe, giv-
ing us a chance as well as he.

“I feel that this subject has been
given much consideration in the
past and perhaps the difficulty of
finding another solution has proven
too great for us. I prefer to think
that such is not so—that such is
not too great for us. I prefer to
think that such is not too great if
we will but give ourselves to the
finding of another solution to this
problem.

“I feel so greatly concerned
about this matter that I have re-
quested and have been granted the
privilege of presenting it to you.
I am certain. it would be a joy to
‘each and every one of us if we
could send a man away from our

midst with no doubts as to his fu-
ture and what he has to offer to
the world and society, no doubts
as to his personality, and to his
character. I am sure we could all
rest with more peace of miad if
we knew all who leave us leave as
a man. This perhaps shall never be
realized, but I do feel that we can
reduce the number greatly of those
men who leave us for whom we
have doubts as to his future, even
though this number is now very
small.”

In the general discussion that
followed the presentation of this
statement to the Executive Com-
mittee, it was very clearly explained
by the student that there should be
a severe punishment for a man’s
first mistake, however, not expul-
sion nor suspension; and that as
a Christian College, Davidson was
some what obliged to be a pioneer
in the area of developing more of
a corrective type Honor System
than purely penal as it has at the
present time.

It should be included here for
the benefit of the Student Body,
that the faculty representatives on
this Executive Committee were
vefy sympathetic with this state-

ment presented by a member of the
student body.

There is a movement developing
on the Davidson campus to alter
the penal aspect of the Honor Sys-
tem, combining with it a corrective
aspect which to many appears very
desirable.

_ FRIDAY, MAY 9. 1952
THE FRIENDLY PHILOSOPHER:
Idle Moments Of Thought:
Disjointed Babbling From
The Steps Of D.C. Library

By NAT DANIEL

ups in the administration and
the Student Body in general.
ee
Since we're all one big happy
family here at Davidson, bicycles
are community property. It would
be more polite, however, to put the
family bike where you found it. It's
both frustrating and time-consum-
ing to have to wander all over the
campus looking for your two-
wheeled method of transportation.
* @ ¢
One of our projects next
year should be a careful ex-
amination of the Honor Sys-
tem. Several students and
faculty members feel that the
system is not working as well
in the areas of lying, stealing,
and reporting violations as it
does with cheating. The stu-
dents have been accused of
moral degeneracy but we hope
it ien’t that bad. It is hoped
that in the coming year the stu-
dents will take it more serious-
ly, and educate the incoming
freshmen to do so.

Columnist’s note: Last week
we began a new type of col-
lumn, approaching life at Da-
vidson from a more amiable
and positive point of view. We
have ‘not forgotten the inade-
quacies of the status quo, and
we shall continue to point them
out from time to time. When-
ever a subject warrants it, we
shall devote a whole column to
it, but we shall leave criticiam
for the sake of criticism to the
fiery pen of one John King Ot-
ley, ITI (see below). Some of
our material may be neither
friendly nor philosophy, but
since the new title has a pleas-
ing appearance, and is definite-
ly (self) flattering, we make no
apologies for it.

Bill White, as Editor Hanshaw
has probably pointed out in the
editorial column, did a superior job
as editor of the Davidsonian this
year. Under his guidance the paper
came closer to being a real college
newspaper than ever before. But it
still has a long way to go, Next year
each of us can help it on its journey

by further participation in the pro-| Last week we mentioned a case

duction of “our student news-]in race relations and promised to
paper.” have a story. Out of deference to
*-e the individuals concerned, we de-

cided not to publish the crude de-
tails. The case was one in which
a Negro girl was dttacked by a
local white citizen. Similar cases
have come wp oftener than we
Southerners like to admit, but they
are usually thrown out of court.
This time, however, justice was
rendered as the judge found proba-
ble cause. Citizens of the town
(Continued On Page Four)

On the surface, some of us
may feel that Alan Gripe's
hitch as college chaplain (at
present a glorified name for Y
secretary) has not been com-
pletely successful. Before we
make a hasty evaluation of his
services, let us be sure to take
into consideration that he’s had
to buck a great lack of co-
operation; both from higher-

THE FREE LANCE:

D. C. Publication Censors
Have A Few Twisted Ideas

By JOHN OTTLEY

dents, are written by students and
the roaring twenties will be quick] have as their sole purpose for ex-
to note the origin of this column's | istence the stimulation of the stu-
name. Writing for the Baltimore | dents. .

Sun during that memorable era was| One of the immediate tasks
one of the hottest flames that ever| which faces a man __ starting
seared the pants off this country,]a publication is to determine who
one H, L. Mencken. his reading public is going to be and

This column will not emulate his] to see how he can angle what is
thumbs down policy on everything, | printed in his publication so as to
but will be an uninhibited weekly | achieve the maximum interest from
critique of the Davidson scene and | that public. An example of this can
will venture abroad when the na-| be seen in the fact that small town
tional panorama becomes more than | newspapers carry a much larger per-
normally ludicrous. centage of farm hints than do met-

Censorship at D. C. ropolitan sheets.

Regardless of the outcome of this An answer too often given to
week's race for magazine editor, we] indignant editors here is that
noted striking implications of the| blank publication is being sent
excoriation of censorship of both| into the homes of the boys and
humor and literature here at Da-; it has a very great deal to do
vidson. To try to analyze the mo-] with the name of dear David-
tivations of the censors themselves] son. All this is true, but the
poses a problem with too many] publication simply is not being
possible answers. run for the perente. This state-

The average Davidson mind ment, though painfully obvious,
is submitted to so many con- cannot be over-emphasized.
flicts with reality that if pre- We suspect the real motivation
sents to the psychologist a [for censorship of this type is the
rather hopeless phantasmagoria. | point that Karl Marx drove home

Looking at the general policy of | so effectively.
censorship itself, a first considera- If the censors are afraid that
tion is the humble fact that the] a less censored magazine would
college magazine and newspaper are] cut the college's financial
paid for in the main by the stu- (Continued On Page Four)

CAT POLL

What do you think of the speeches by the candidates that have
become a part of the election system?
$56% LIKE 22.2% DISLIKE
oo eet ¢@ @

An advantage for the winners; a disadvantage for the losers.
—Nat Daniel

Readers of American literature of

222% INDIFFERENT

e
t eo *# © @ @

For the size of the student body we now have it seems almost
Necessary tq have political talks for elections. However, it should
not be a man’s ability to speak, but his character that gives him an
office at Davidson. | am for the speeches until we become a small
college again (and the sooner, the better).—Chalmers G. Davidson.

eoeeves

Some of them have turned out to be a farce, primarily because
of our method of nomination——Lee Harter.

oo. ? @ 8

These speeches, when they have been serious, have
given me something to vote for when the candfidate’s qualifications
were unknown to me—Harry Hickey.

eevee

They are fine when used in the case of officers in which there
is room for controversy as long as they are used in the right
manner.—Bryan Robinson.

@ + ¢@@ 6

It gives a lot of boys a chance to know better who. to vate
for—Don Lance, Jr.

@ se «© @ @

I am afraid that at times the speeches or the response to the
speeches might not be indicative of the things which the new
method should show.—Vance Mizelle,

® ¢$¢6 8

They do create some semblance of a platform so that the

voter isn’t voting for a reputation but for an ideasRonnie Wilson.
es 2 6 8

I don’t particularly have an opinion.—Mr. Downright Typical.
