PAGE TWO

THE

DAVIDSONIAN

| FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1952 *

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ........00.. ee BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ...................0... ALEX GOLEY
Associate Editors .---...-.-.--- Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,

George McMurray
Managing Editors ~.....-... Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,

John Ottley

Art Editor—Don Mahy Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles Feature Editor—-Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager Bob Poston
Collection Manager -..-.---.---------~--------- a... Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager Preston Chaney

Boo Northcutt

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Speedy Executive Action
Collapses Sails of Critics

The prompt action by the faculty committee and executive
committee in putting through the student body request for
lunch lengthening aid a more liberal holiday policy leaves critics
of the two bodies happily dazed.

Hardly filed with The Davidsonian for this week's publica-
tion, a letter by one of the student-critics is now outdated and
disproved by the announcement of the administrative grants. The
writer went to great length to expound the futility of attempted
student reform, pointing out that while we might shout and
petition until blue in the face, the administration would nod
approvingly at our democratic form. of self-expression only to
nod negatively when it came to a vote.

While the two changes required no mountain moving or
great sacrifice on the part of the executive committee, they went
a long way toward building student confidence in the power of
their opinion—a confidence which was in dire need of bolstering.

Elections Need No Basic Change,
Two Improvements Would Do It

In the recent closed meeting of the student body the ques-
tion of changing the election system was brought up and a com-
plete change to a wide open system of campaigning was recom-
mended. While it seems obvious that some changes are desirable
it is not a good idea to junk the entire system simply because
it does not reflect the intricacies of national politics.

The purpose of elections should be to obtain the best quali-
fied officers possible. These officers are not elected to enact laws
as in national legislatures, but to hold in trust certain ideals
and principles that are set up as the guides of life in the college.
Men are needed in these positions. who will uphold and typify
the Davidson ideals. This may sound a little far fetched or a
little deep, but what it means is that the student council is the
body that indoctrinates the freshmen and therefore it must be
made up of men with sterling character.

In a community as smail as this it is possible to know the
leaders personally. Each member of the student body can observe
any other member at close enough range to know what type of
person he is. This is just about as close to perfect democracy as
you can get; each man has the opportunity to see his leaders at
first hand and each person is free to vote without coersion.
Any change of the basic principles under which we now function
would be a bad mistake.

There are two technical points, however, which might be
improved upon. The first of these is the large number of men
running for each office which results in a great deal of lost mo-
tion and wasted time. The other is the failure to hear just what
the candidate proposes to do when he gets in office.

By requiring petitions of nomination and a two-dollar
filing fee the time wasted every year in chapel with nominating
procedure could be eliminated. The fee would eliminate a lot of
people who are not interested in the first place and it still would
not be a hardship on any one.

An opportunity for five-minute speeches by each candidate
could be provided with the time saved by eliminating the nomi-
nating sessions. This would give the student body a chance to
hear the ¢andidate make constructive proposals for action during
his term. In this way candidates would be required to do some
constructive thinking on exactly what their job was and how
they could improve it.

The election system, except for technical changes, is well
fitted to the needs of the student body and should not be basi-
cally altered. It is felt that the changes recommended could be
enacted within the framework of the election system as it now
stands.—N.S.B.

Greek Week Makes Bright Debut,
But Hell Weeks Still On Scene

In a small but effective way and in an environment in-
congruous to its very being, Greek Week had its beginning along
Fraternity Row this week.

And for a beginning, the program was a highly successful
one. Inter-Fraternity Council heads had stated last week that
they had rather undertake a small schedule and see it through to
effective completion than to attempt a large operation and run
roughshod over the high spots. This plan was a good one, the
results bear that out.

But if the seed of this Greek Week, well planted in 1952,
is to come to the productive fruition of future years, it must be
nurtured and cared for in future years. And any farmer will
tell you that raising’s a darn sight toughter than planting.

For as the seed makes its bid for life, the environment
must be conducive to growth. The environment in which Da-
vidson’s Greek Week had its birth is one, it seems to us, which

(Continued On Page Four)

i a Rei

THE MORNING AFTER THE NIGHT

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Chesterfieldian Offspring Smoke
Out Replies to Mid-Winter Bids

What hath this day deserved?
what hath it done
That it in golden letter should

won't think me too forward.
You have been given to me,
that is, your name has been

be set suggested to me by one of my
Among the high tides in the pals here at school. You do not
calendar? know who I am but Joe is my

W. Shakespeare..

Among the phases of such a
weekend as is now upon us is the
extensive correspondence that pre-
cedes it for a period.of any where
from six weeks to three hours be.
fore the opening gun. And, since
without this part of the Growing
Boy's Social Development there
would be precious little activity
this weekend, a fuller understand-
ing of the trend.in letter-writing
is our duty to bring, to say the
least, about.

As the above-quoted friend Will
would say, “preferment is by let-

pal, and you know Joe. Don’t
you?

Anyway, Joe said you would
come to the dance if I whistled.
I think he must have been kid-

Harter Wants

Mr, Bill White
Editor, Davidsonian

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX:

On Conference Comm.

oot INAT DANIEL:

1951-52 will go down in David-
son’s history as the year of the
great gripe. In many aspects of
campus life, the utility and quali-
ty of Davidson's status quo is being
subjected to severe questioning by
members of the Student Body, and
reform agitation has reached a new
high. This effort to initiate changes
for the better is significant, for it
may mean that the Davidson stu-
dent is growing up and waking up
to a degree, and that he has finally
discovered that the ivy clinging to
our classic halls has hidden a multi-
tude of sins for quite some time.

This open questioning of
of present conditions came to
a climax at the recent meeting
of the Student Body, and all
over the campus there seems
to be a renewed interest in Da.
vidson and its place in society.
It may be true, however, that a
word of caution is appropriate
at this time.

We are pretty well aware by now
of the many things that are wrong
with Davidson, and in the process
of discovering these faults many of
us have had to change certain
idealistic illusions to stark realities.
But we mustn't go too far the other
way and reject the Davidson way

BEFORE

of looking at life completely just;

because many aspects of it are un-
desirable. In short, our criticisms

ding, though, because how could
you hear if I whistled? Joe is
always playing tricks. So I will
ask you, Will you? It is month
after next and if you will,
thanks a lot.

Very sincerely yours,
Name withheld on request of
Joe.

The second type of correspondent

(Continued On Page Four)

Mr. Bill White
Editor Davidsonian
Davidson, N. C.
Dear Bill.

In the last issue of the David-
sonian an editorial was written on
the noisiness of East and West
dormitories. There was also given
a possible reason for this condition
—“the manifestation. of the student
opinion of its government—a gov-
ernment in name, performing the
routine functions, but hardly rough
enough to stop a little hell raising
at one o'clock in the morning.”

In answering this statement
in behalf of the Student Coun-
cil I would like to point out
that the editor did not look at

Action

been done, action would have been
taken to satisfy any questions that

ter and affection.” Therefore, we
publish herewith six types of let-
ters, four male and two female,
on the premise that it takes at least
two letters from a man to get one
that says anything from a woman.

The first, and perhaps most in.
teresting, type is that sent by the

Davidson College
Davidson, North Carolina

Dear Bill:

Since the “town meeting” held in
chapel last Friday morning, there
have been many discussions about
the several criticisms and sugges-

might have been raised, however,
since neither the officers nor the
members of Student Council have
been directly approached they feel
there has been no need for any
action, nor any need for the
Faculty-Student Conference Com-
mittee.

this problem from a very prac-

tical standpoint.

The problem is this. Noise mak-
ing in the dormitories will continue
until each student takes the initia-
tive himself to do something about
it. Student Council members can

should be limited to the construc-
tive, for a complete rejection of Da-
vidson’s institutions and customs
entails the rejection of many of

the fundamental doctrines of Jesus’.

teachings, as well as some ethical
principles which we as citizens of
the Atomic Age sorely need.

Criticism in order to be construc-
tive, must first of al be discriminat-
ing. The critic must be able to
choose wisely those aspects of the
situation he is attacking which are
to be rejected and those which are
to be retained. He should also be
able to recognize varying degrees
of evil, and choose the least char-
acteristics if no completely good
ones are available. He should look
at the situation intelligently and
objectively, find out all he can
about it, examine it carefully from
every point of view, and then, and
only then, draw some well-thought-
out, practical conclusions concern-
ing the matter,

Secondly, constructive criticism
should offer alternative solutions
to the problems jts presents. Most
of us are able to point out mistakes
and weaknesses in a situation, but
when asked for an alternative, we
don't have one to offer. In remodel-
ing, the way to improve a house is
not to tear it down and leave it, but
the important thing is to replace the
old part with new and better ma-
terials arranged more efficiently.

FROM THE EDITORS MAILBOX:

McLEAN DEFENDS STUDENT COUNCIL
POSITION ON CURRENT ISSUES

are, and turn them in to the

Student Council.

We don't advocate, however,
turning in a noise-maker until he
has been warned once ‘by the stu-
dents who live near him. If he per-
sists in making noise then and only
then should he be turned in to the
Student Council.

The Student Council does not
hesitate to take action on dormitory
disturbers, Its past record will
vouch for this.

Three men have been re-
moved from the dorm this
year and one man has been
campused.

Until each individual student
realizes that it is his personal re-
sponsibility as well as the Student
Council members to hold the noise
in the dorms to a reasonable mini.
mum, the dorms will continue to
be as noisy as ever and the Student
Council can do nothing to prevent
it.

Here, Mr. Editor are the facts.

Our Recent Wave of Criticism:
Construction or Rejection?

Unless we make some practical sug-
gestions to the solutions of our
problems we have accomplished
little, except perhaps to call atten-
tion to problems with the idea of
having someone else work out a
solution. Usually, however, in order
to get a job done, we have to do
it ourselves.

Finally, criticism is construc-
tive only in so far as it is the
means toward an end—in this
case a better Davidson—and
cease to fulfill its task ade-
quately when it becomes an
end in itself. This business of
criticism for criticism’s sake in-
flates more egos and does less
good than do many of the
things which it criticizes. When
criticism reaches this stage of
degeneracy, it become in itself
an easy target for criticism and
rejection.

Davidson has her faults, but in
many areas of the educational and
the social, she remains strong. It
is true, she has some responsibility
to us, but it is just as true that
we owe her something too, By
getting the most out of what she
has to offer, we, at least may then
be able to present her best to the
world, and by ever striving up-
wards, make that best better.

ideas, or opinions to the Stu-

dent Council.

The president of the Student
Council has always been ready to
receive and present student ideas
to the Student Council, and then
to the Student Body if the ideas
were of possible value to the Stu-
dent Body. No one has taken ad-
vantage of this opportunity.

Thus we can see that there
has been no call for the Stu-
dent-Faculty Committee this
year.

No one has expressed any ideas
to the Student Council which war.
ranted any discussion by this Com-
mittee.

The “town meeting” of the Stu-
dent Body should bring student
opinion out into the open from now
on. From this beginning your Stu-
dent Government can go _ into
action. Up until this time it has
been hampered tremendously.

The reason I write this lotter
is to show to ceftain members

tions that came forth at that meet.
ing. In the course of one of the
discussions the question was
asked:

“Why have not the students
come either to the Student
Body officers or individual
members of the Student Coun-
cil and expressed their desires,
ideas, or opinions?”

It was suggested that had this

the neophyte socialite, or the bud-
ding beau, This type has never had
a date before, but upon reaching
maturity, ie. college, feels that
his station demand some Bacchina-
lian outburst of. emotion, and so
consents to date a name which a
fraternity brother has dug up. His
effort:
Dear Miss Enneahedron:
How are you? I hope you

ODK PROGRAM ARTICLE:

Proposed Changes

It’s always a good thing to air out problems in a public meet-
ing of the sort that was held last Friday. If it accomplished its pur-
pose, it should have started a good many people thinking construc-
tively about the student government at Davidson.

On the other hand, depending on what results accrue from it, it
may have been merely an opportunity for the student body to demon-
strate its impatience with and contempt for the immobility of the col-
lege administration, and perhaps for the lethargy of student leadership.

The purpose of the present discussion is to look briefly into the
question of possible changes in student body election procedures. There
has been considerable agitation from several sources for a change in the
rules to permit a certain amount of politics to enter in to the elections.
This, of course, at many other schools, would be a foolish question for
elections and politics go hand in hand in most places. But if politics
can contaminate, Davidson has been Simon-pure—at least officially.

Perhaps an analysis of existing student government at Davidson
would help to explain this situation.

As it exists today, the most important function of the Student
Council is to preserve and to administer the Honor System, that
nebulous ideal, the spirit of which is so often ignored.

Theoretically the Council is to administer the organization of stu.
dent government as well, but, with the exception of Student Body Regu-
lations, there is just not much organization to be administered. A bit of
research on governmental organization at other colleges and on former
practices here at Davidson would throw additional light on this last.

Now, assuming that the Honor System is the Council's prime con-
cern, some good can be seen, I think, in the present system of elections
at its best, Integrity, strengh of character, strong convictions about
right and wrong—these are perhaps the primary qualifications for mem-
bers of a judicial board, qualifications which can be judged best with-
out the influence of high-pressure politics upon the voter.

When the present system is not operating at its best, of course,
there is always the danger of its turning into a popularity contest.

not patrol the dormitories, looking
for noisemakers, and would not do
so if they could. But the Student
Council can go into action if and
when they find out who is causing
the trouble. How can we find out
who those noise-makers are?
We can find out only when
the majority of studente—the
ones that want a quiet dormitory
—find out who the noisemakers

“We need men who can spot
problems, out-dated rules and
regulations, antiquated customs
and traditions—not only men
who can spot problems but
men who can solve problems.”
This is a direct quote from: a

speech that was made last Friday
in the “town meeting.” It seems
ths statement was not clear and

(Continued On Page Four)

of the Student Body that their
Student Government has not
been idle because it wanted to
be, but mainly I write to show
that Student Government can
function smoothly and effect-
ively only when the Student
Body at large takes an active
personal interest in it.
Sincerely,
MAC McLEAN.

I would like to answer, too,
those men who have spoken about
the lethargy, the sleepiness of the
Student Government.

The Student Council members
are the student's representatives.
We are the means by which the
student should express his desires.

Yet no one, no not one single
man has expressed his desires,‘

In Student Election Rules Set Forth

By BOB CRUTCHFIELD

But this danger is not restricted to our system, nor is it inevitably
a part of our system. Is it not possible that better management of the
present elections procedure would eliminate most of its faults?

Changes do not have to be drastic!

There is a plan afoot which would require each candidate to make
‘one short speech and one only. In his talk he would set forth his con-
victions about student government and the part he would play in it.
The student body, thus becoming acquainted with the candidates and
their opinions, would perhaps be in a better position to choose intelligent-
ly the members of its judicial board. Naturally, such modifications as
these do not eliminate the danger of the popularity element, Neither
are the doors flung wide open to full-scale political operations with
their admittedly undesirable consequences. This, then, is what we may
call a moderate solution. ;

Up to now we have assumed that the primary concern of the Stu-
dent Council is with the Honor System, to the exclusion of most of what
is usually considered the ordinary business of governmental organiza-
tions. Recent expressions of student opinion, however, seem to indicate
that a number of students favor a general broadening of the aspects
of student government at Davidson, with a corresponding increase and
diversification of the functions of the officers.

If such changes were made in the governmental set-up, it
seems obvious that the present systam of “sanitary-code” elections
would be wholly inadequate to choose men possessed of leadership
ability commensurate with the duties to be placed upon them.

Corresponding changes in elections procedure would be necessary,
changes which would insure leadership (and integrity) top billing. Would
politics be allowed free rein? That would depend, of course, on the will
of the students and others concerned; it would probably be desirable
to retain some restrictions. The point is that if the scope of student
government is to be enlarged, then the elections system must grow to
match it,

There is, incidentally, another point to be considered in any dis-
cussion on broadening student government, a point perhaps only one

who had fad experience as a member of the Student Council can fully
see. It has to do with the ever-present problem of lack of time in which
to work. All of us are aware of the myriad activities open to students
at Davidson, and of the vast amount of time required by most of them:
in short, this business of “College Life” so recently under fire from
high quarters. We all may not be aware, however, of the great amount
of time and interest required in the judiciary functions of the Student
Council.

In fact, due possibly to the necessarily quiet nature of the
Council’s judicial work, the probable majority of students are not
often reminded that it sometimes meets for as many as sixteen
hours in a single week.

In the face of this inescapable shortage of time, it seems apparent
that if the functions of the government are to be increased, they must
be divided among more officers. The implications here are considerable:
there may be involved the complete revision of our system of govern-
ment, including perhaps division into three branches. Certainly the
judicial and executive branches would have to be separated. Now such
a drastic change in form may well be good for Davidson; but we would
all do welt to consider carefully how far reforms can be taken, and
how much thought is required to see clearly all the facets of a com.
plex problem such as the one with which we are faced.

Certainly we can all agree on one thing: the elections system
ae it is presently administered is not adequate. Whether or how it
shall be changed rests finally with the student body.

But between now and the time when we'll all vote on the changes,
the call goes out for concrete suggestions, complete outlines of plans,
to be submitted to the officers of the student body. And it may not
be too rash to predict that work will begin soon within the Student
Council on possible changes in the face of Davidson.

Who knows? We may yet disprove the old, old classic state-
ment: “The Administration will forever maintain its majestic im-
mobility amid the swirling currents of transitory student opinion.”

But maybe that's just sophomore optimism.
