FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1952

amination Schedule — fi Sams Ket

A.M.———ROTC 12, 22, 32, 42

PAGE FOUR | THE DAVIDSONIAN

FIND A CAREER IN THE ARMY — LAWYER, THIEF (“conisces trom Pare T00)

; fact that not over ten per cent of
i . the student body could tell you
Perm me now anything that was said, and

: nine persons of those ten per cent
don't know why they remember it,

The Phi Gams last night clected
Mac Doubles president, Tad Currie

FRIDAY

it would have been a worthwhile MAY 21 = ; . tre Dick Liles IFC represen-
~ experiment to present each speaker, P.M.—tThird hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday reasurer, d Tim Bryan besedin
».) a reasonable length of time before tative, and J y g
_ reasonable = . . house manager. Hunter Strader
his speech, with a list of oie WEDNESDAY A.M. stepped into the post of corres-
but not overly controversia anes ponding ecretary, with Billy Pharr
tions concerning his stand, with a MAY 22 P.M.— Third hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday becoming recording secretary. ,
request " deal with these during Hubert Cannon, former president,
his chapel talk. . . :
{ Whether tlre subject be Chris- THURSDAY A.M.——Second hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday was elected historian.
tianity and Politics, Marriage and
the Family, War and Peace, all of MAY 23 P.M. TIME SURVEY...

, us have questions 4 (or which the (Continued From Page Two)
answer do not need thirty minutes ss inter-nationalist, al-
of generalities to prepare the way. SATURDAY A.M.——Second hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday majority are inter na jona ist, al
A . f k ques- though an isolationist element is
tions ‘not #0 get an answer but “to MAY 24 P.M.——Sixth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday certainly Present. h

ee ; _ —_.. so Cane... %. _ , , he majority of the graduates
: : start an argument, there can be no vote as their fathers did, and where
Defense attorney Charles Bryan listens to an objection from the trial counsel in the mock | real harm in them. Who knows but A.M they vote differently, the shift has
trial of Joel Ware (on witness stand) for the theft of of a set of golf clubs. Trials were staged this week | what we might find an answer? MONDAY Vb. heey ily been from Democratic
by both senior ROTC sections, in connection with their study of military law. Ware was acquitted, by . MAY 26 PM 7 hh 1 Tuesda Thursda Saturda Republican The type of college at-
— . ey , ur: * .
the way—(Photo by Andy Simons.) GRAD RECOVERING... ourt. Our classes y d y y tended makes little difference in
(Continued From Page One) . their social and political views
es es . ° .
assault with intent to murder, al- TUESDAY A.M. First hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday which is not better explained by
though the boy who did the shoot- MAY 27 their family background.
” ing told police later that he had P.M. —
T | S B k decided “not to kill Stukes if they . evéry good wish for i" successful
im.” : : athletic program in football,
TUumean S lan Is a y S ac er had to shoot him. ; WEDNESDAY A.M.——Fifth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday Sincerely yours,
abun-Gap Nacoochee is a com LENOX.D. BAKER, MD
President Truman may today have Gen Dwight Eisen- native are fed by MAY 28 P.M. First hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday. ann S UE
hower's resignation as European defense commander, a top Ike-|been given to a successor. church, club and private contribu-
man said today. This news came on the heels of information that} | He said the nations of the North | 00. ty is designed primarily for HURSDAY A.M. Fourth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday FOR THE BEST IN
. Atlantic Treaty Organization have} ,...” il T : ORDS
the general won 10 more delegates from his home state of Kansas given him continuing authority to children of the area, but pupils MAY 29 —— RECOR
thus running his total there to 20 of 22. appoint the supremé commander |{TO™ omer aemuome eet pay P.M. DAN RAMSEY RECORD
This Eisenhower backer, who but that, as a matter of courtesy, tuitio, . "others. work their way ; BAR
asked not to be identified, spoke} that he will return to this coun- | he would consult with them again through s A.M.———Mathematics 10, 11, 12 127% W. Trade — Charlotte
out as the Washington Evening] try shortly to lend personal aid | before picking a successor to Eisen- Stub es formerly taught at Darl- FRIDAY
Star reported the general's resigna-| to the drive to win the Repub- | hower. ington School in Rome, Ga. He did MAY 30 PM
tion already is on President Tru-| Jican presidential nomination Elsewhere on political fronts cone post-graduate work at Emory Ml.
man's desk. for him. today President Truman threw University in Atlanta last year. < THACKER’S inc
Truman would neither con- The “I-like-Ike” man in Wash-| out a hint that before the _ —_ UETEERS ... however, that the true reason was e
firm nor deny the report. He |; id he understood Ei Democratic National Conven ALPHA PHI . . . RACQ that the N no fonger call
r ° ington sa} e understoo ssen-e od ° (Cc ti > FE fp; Three a € avy was no nh, -
talked cautiously, at his week- | hower's resignation had been re-| tion meets he may name the FROLICS BIDS ... (Continued From Page One) wont nued From Page ) ing college students, as it con- PRIVATE DINING
ly news conference, about the | ceived at either the White House| man he thinks it ought to nomi- (Continued From Page One) important. Skinner (P), 6-1, 6-4. sidered them potential officer ma- ROOMS

This new fraternity plans many Doubles . terial and wanted them to finish
projects, including one for a student] 1) Spears and Toole (P) defeated their schooling before taking them
used book store to be located near} Strand and D. Keesler (D) 6-4, 6-1. into the service.
the new book:store in the basement} 2) Keesler and Bivins (D) de-
of Chambers. feated Bradley and Dodd (P) 6-2, DOLE APPLAUDED

= 6-3. of .

STUDENT EXHIBITS... 3 Dudley and Snead (D) de- (Continued From Page Two)

(Continued From Page One) { feated Skinner and Thompson 6-3, | such a man,
and ink of clown and circus | 2-6, 6-1. Undoubtedly, you had a com-
themes by Mahy, abstract de- mittee to look into the situation
signs by Rose and Hart, a wa- and know much of his background,
ter color by Crutchfield and a COLLEGE SALTS .. . but I thought perhaps it would PATRONIZE OUR

manner in which a successor to | or the Pentagon.
Eisenhower would be sppoint- “I had been given to understand
ed. But on the question of the [the resignation may have arrived
general’s resignation he said he two or three days ago,” he told
had nothing to give out at this [4 reporter. “I had expected the
time, . Prosident to announce it at his news
The President went on to say| conference this morning.”
that when and if Eisenhower wants Truman said instead at his
his resignation anonunced he —{ meeting with reporters that it’s
Truman — will announce it. entirely up to the general
In Paris, Eisenhower himself} whether he leaves the Euro-
couldn't be pfrched for comment{ pean assignment, adding that if

inate for President.

The President said at a news
conference that he has a right to
his preference, the same as any
other citizen. He declared cryp-
tically, however, thac he hopes it
won't be necessary for him to ex-
press a preference.

Previously Truman had said
the party's July convention
could pick any candidates it
wanted without any interven-

day night from 8 til 12.

Decoration for the dances will be
in the theme of a circus.

Johnny Long and his orchestra
will play for the dances. Long will
be coming from the Roosevelt Ho-
tel in New Orleans, During his stay
in New Orleans he has given Da-
vidson some very favorable publi-
city,

Long is a native of North Caro-
lina and began his career while a

for

PARTIES AND
BANQUETS

+ “A Good Place to Eat”

Phone 25-4900 Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

(Continued From Page One)

on the reports. Eisenhower. does step out the tion by him. student at Duke. He has played| portrait by Peck. please you to know how much we

There have been reports the| for dances at several other schools[ Mr. Moose announced that the] been filled. have been impressed by him. ADVERTISERS
lice prevented reporters from ques-| announcement of his resigna- President favors Gov. Adlai Ste-|in the state and has proved very exhibition would run through the} It was noted by one of the reg-| This letter brings, you our con- —IT PAYS!
tioning him about them when hel tion, venson of lflinois, but Truman said | popular. entire month of April. ular Navy personnel in Charlotte, | tinued interest in Davidson, and :

arrived at the George V Hotel for
a social function.
Reports have circulated for
several weeks that the general's
resignation is imminent and

John Hopkins Summer Work
Emphasizes Asian Problem

Washington—A summer session emphasizing the current
political, economic, and cultural problems of Southeast Asia will
be offered at the School of Advanced International Studies of
The Johns Hopkins University from June 27 through August
27, 1952, Dean Philip W. Thayer announced today.

_ In connection with the session,
the school will sponsor a conference | Southeast Asia, and Buddhist Poli-
on “Southeast Asia in the Coming | tical Thought. These courses will
World” during the week of August/complement the more general
11, About 100 representatives °F |course offerings on Contemporary
American and Southeast Asian! protiems in Ameritan Foreign
universities, of government and} Policy, Current Problems in Inter-
business, will be invited to discuss | national Law, Problems in Inter-
current questions pertaining to this | national Trade, Contemporary
important area. For the first time, Europe, and Comparative Govern-
administrators or professors from| ment and Politics of the Middle
universities of Rangoon, Indonesia, | East, Facilities and supervision for
Hanoi, Manila, Malaya, and from | individual study and research will
the University of Political and be available on special topics within
Moral Science and the Chulatong-|ihe Sotuheast Asia field.
korn University of Bangkok will Fi :

ive full-expense felowships of

visit the United States to partici- $400 each will be awarded to ap-

pate in such a conference. . . °
The summer session program will plicants of outstanding Promise on
a competitive basis, and grants in

offer the following courses by area f

experts: Colonialism and National- | *™ller_ amounts will be available

ism in Southeast Asia, the Economy need, combined basis of merit and

of Post-War Southeast Asia, Cul-|"°C*

tural and Social Factors in South- t AN inauiries should be Resins
: : > {to the ice of the Registrar,

east Asia, Geographic Factors in School of Advanced International

Studies, 1906 Florida Avenue, N.W.,
Washington, D. C. The deadline

Vi Cc Ver sa y +4 for the receipt of scholarship ap-

plications is May 3, 1952,

today he wasn’t expressing any
preference right now.

The President said he himself
would not accept a draft under any
circumstances.

Students Told
Limit Church
Viewing To Days

Stay out of church.

A strange commandment for
Davidsonians, but it only ap-
plies to the new church and
_then only during the evening
hours after 4:30 p.m.

p.m,

It has been requested that
all men who wish to see how
things are progressing inside
the edifice visit during work-
ing hours only. Construction
men go on at 8:30 a.m., and re-
main until the afternoon hour
mentioned above.

Apparently quiet from the
outside there js a flurry of
activity inside which turns the
lethargic outside  bricklaying
into a false note

Final touches are being put
on the interior plastering and
wood work is being arranged.
Plans are underway for the in-
stallation of the organ some
time in the early future.

All concerned hope that the
building will meet its timetable
and be ready to be dedicated
at commencement exercises the
first week in June.

-

It seemed ‘possible, however, that
there might be some delay while
the question of naming a successor
to Eisenhower was taken up.

Truman said no consideration has

—_s_ —— a

Ta-

A group of Army officers and po- White House won't hold up the

NEW CARS

DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF

e ee
A Gl BUSINESS LOAN Dial s-4513 be
FOR THE PURCHASE OF AN 212 W. Forth Charlotte a

AUTOMOBILE NOW IS LIMITED (

10 30 MONTHS FOR A NEW FINE PODS i

CAR AND 24 MONTHS FOR 6 STEAKS ae PE |
UGED CAR... THE VETERAN

CHICKEN 1)INNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE

MU6T PROVE HE NEEDS THE

AMERICA’S

CHESTERFIELDS ore much MILDER ~

BUSINESS O@ OCCUPATION Sanaa FAVORITE,
mocaraers | ACY NY)! i and give you the ADDED PROTECTION of

Grade A Cafe

418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.

!LONG NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE™

*PROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION

HIS

