”

PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
OOLLEGE YEAR

NAT DANIEL:

EDITOR IN CHIEF ..............000...000008 ILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ........ \evsaeeeencceees ALEX GOLEY
Associate Editors ----..-------- Shelly Beart eae Mele We really have it made around
7 . t
Managing Editors ..---.---. Larry Dagenhart, Frank Henshaw, here ane nave dectloned tase
" John ey fullness, the back yards and porches

Art Editor—Don Mahy Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels

of the dorms have become sprinkled
with the bronzed, bare bodies of
clean-cut American Southern Pres-

Assistant Business Manager ..-.--.----------4-- Boo Northeutt byterian kids. We have no troubles,
Advertising Manager -..-~---------.-------------- Jack Hobson no responsibilities. We get our
Circulation Manager --..--.---..-...--------------- Bob Poston three meals a day, We don’t have
Collection Manager ----.---------~----------------- Bill Minter to walk very far after our mail.
Subscriptions Manager ~.----------------------- Many of us have cars. A majority

of us take easy courses in the
Business Department, but those few
who major in Bible, Philosophy or
some other odd sort of course are
only bookworms or Phi Betes, or
just plain odd. But even to them,
college is comfortable.

The Davidson students as a
group, don’t use the record room
in Phi Hall so as to give the Music
Department a good return on its
investment. Only a few esthetes
and members of the Music Appre-
ciation class use the facilities to
any considerable extent. It would
be easy for those students who
don’t take any courses in Shearer
Hall to drop in once in a while and
listen to a few classical records. It
might increase ‘the cultural level of

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

In Which The Editor Stumbles
Through The Form of Farewell

It is of some comfort to an outgoing editor, about to file
his final, to know that the inadequacy of words has been real-
ized by men of greater import than himself when passing from a
tenure in office.

A farewell column is written not because of any parting
advice or meaty summation that the exiting editor might impart
to incoming generations, but rather because it is expected. It
seldom praises others for fear of omission; it seldom praises self,
out of braggant modesty: it seldom analyzes self. for fear of
what might be found. It is a sentimental sop to self and those
faithful enough to follow the writer. through the year.

But of sentiment, we have litth—in its expected vein.
Personally, it will be a relief to have that weekly nagging Fe-
sponsibility lifted—to have Wednesday nights and Friday after-
noons uncluttered with the cares of tardy stories, gaping holes
on page one and four, insufficient advertising. and a dozen other
worries peculiar to that particular issue.

It would be more fool-hardy than hard hearted to pretend
there is no sentiment attached, however. The very ‘things of
which we complain (using the editorial ‘“we’’). we will glance
on with nostalgia in the days to come. As is true with any job,
we have gotten from The Davidsonian what we have put into it.
Where we have prepared ourselves and planned well, we have
enjoyed the results of hard work. Where we have failed in organi-
zation of staff, authentication of facts, or error in judgement,
we have sadly suffered the consequences.

In a self analysis we would condone ourselves for the some-
times weak inconsistency of our editorial page, the publication of
certain stories which—in a second better thought—we would
have told ourselves to delete, and the ruling of expendiency over
authentication in other reports.

Our self praise we feel is due in a more attractive, newsier
paper. Here ‘‘we’’ is not the editorial pronoun, but is inclusive
of the entire staff. Particularly are managing editors John Ottley
and Frank Hanshaw and sports editor Dick Liles responsible.
They could—and did when necessary—carry the paper without

With National Convention time
| the date of Gen. Eisenhower's
return to America daily drawing
nearer, the question comes up as to
Dee the General is going to say
on the vital issues of the day—and
really, if he is going to say any-
thing.

It has been reported that Eisen-
hower has scheduled but one speak-
ing engagement after his return
June 1, that to be in his home town
of Abilene, Kansas. He has been
quoted as saying that he hopes he
will be allowed a rest when he
gets back to the U. S. |

We hope that the General will
see that a rest at that crucial time
is not in the best interest of either
himself or the country. That is

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Overcome With Stark Fatigu
Look, Then To The Ivy League

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

hour .

Answer this question honestly,
and with a full realization of its
significance for you and your life:
do you, and your classmates, but
more important, do you personally,
make a sincere effort to apply your
new-found learning in this way?

But perhaps you are not yet lost.
Perhaps you have driven the car-

popped out of joint, forcing
him out of the race. One
cyclist lost control of his ma-
chine going down a hill and fell,
injuring his hip and arm.
Others dropped temporarily
from . exhaustion. But, with
90 dates waiting for them at
the finish line, most of the Yale
men doggedly stuck to their

Constant labor of one uni-
form kind destroys the intensi-
ty and flow of a man’s animal
spirits, which find recreation
and delight in mere change of
activity.

—K. Marx, Capital.
Harvard, Yale and Princeton:
three brightest stars among the ed-
ucational galaxies of the world.

. . : . . ““[The epitome of intellectual andj riage of initiative and original] wheels. the time when he should begin
the editor. The close co-operation received from our printers is} ppitosophical perfection in the] thought along one of the other Heart and guts, men, pure heart/acting like a future President of
largely responsible for our improved appearance and for the|realm of scholarly application of] avenues toward social betterment.| and guts. the U.S., and he should lose some
promptness of publication on Friday evenings. Only once didjonseself to the solution of life's} Consider for a moment the social] fyarvard’s contribution to the} of his reticence concerning the im-

consciousness and intestinal forti-
tude of ninety-odd. Yale stalwarts
on a recent Saturday. We again
look to Life up above:

Last month ... the Yale men
decided to hold a relay bike
tace from New Haven to Vas-
sar. Five-man teams were .or-
organized, and to make the race
even more challenging it was
ruled a team member at the
end of each lap would have to
consume a quart of beer before
the next team member could
take off.

. Only one team of eigh-
teen competing had trained.
The others, with names like the
Lavender Hill Mob and Maid-
enform Five, decided that they

severer problems. Gentlemen, it is
to these that we must look, and
aftr them: must we model ourselves
if we are ever to become, once more,
Little Princeton, instead of Big
Mars Hill.

Where, you will ask, is the secret
to their giant status in the edu-
cational field? Where their touch-
stone? Where their elixir? One has
not far to look. Study carefully,
gentlemen, not only an Ivy
Leaguer’s retention of what is good:
and fine and beautiful and Real
George in the world, but their un-
failing’ application of that knowl-
edge to their behavior in contem-
porary society. Take any one at
random. Say, for instance, Prince-
ton. We quote from Life, April 28:

portant issues currently holding the
headlines as well as on general
principtes.
Mest Important Iesuce

Though the issues will be many
and varied when Sen. Taft and
Eisenhower square off in June, the
two which seem most important to
this writer ace foreign policy and
“galloping socialism.

Youth of the Next Generation? A
vertitable Gargantuan project in in-
ternational relationships. I have, on
short notice, no authority, but I
think it logical that only at Harvard
could two undergraduates, un-
doubtedly political science majors,
have spent twenty-eight consecu-
tive hours slapping each other's face
to break a reputed Russian twenty-
four hour record.

Or perhaps it was at Dartmouth
or Brown or Amherst, and may it
was thirty-two and ¢wenty-five
hours, and it might even have been
a Polish or an Ethiopian record
that they broke. Or maybe they
didn’t even break it at all. There
were two undergraduates, however,
and this is significant.

circulation manager Bob Poston’s team work on Saturday morn-
ing. and that was due to a press breakdown.

Jack Hobson. business manager-elect, and past advertising
manager, worked well with Alex Goley to hold up the financial
end of the press, where dollars—not fillers—must be used in
shortages.

Outside the staff, handled through assignments editor Char-
lie Hassel, Mr. Dillon and Mr. Payne in the News Bureau were
of tremendous help in copy and advice.

As we said at the start, in praise of others there are omis-
sions. We have made too many here, but they are included in
thought. Included too, in thought. are the many, many incidentals
tied in with the year. But to continue would be to grow effusive-
ly sentimental, and we have stecled ourselves against that weak-
ness. We have, in the tradition of editors, fulfilled our duty with
the farewell column.

he has made in the past six months
(over 1000 at this writing), Sen.
Taft has said that the vital issue
of the day is Liberty vs. Socialism.
He avows that if elected President,

S. V. M.

the average Davidsonian. i

on Policy

Now in practically every speech }-

There remains only the farewell.

In Brief Retrospect, System Has
Merits But Needs Control

As a President of the United States constantly reminds his
critics, one must wait for history’s retrospect before passing
judgement on acts so close to our own time.

As one with time running out, permit us to telescope our
time of retrospect into a two-week period and allow a final
say on the election system.

Happily we observed last week the Election Board's installa-
tion of The Davidsonian recommended 24-hour waiting period
between speech and vote. It is hopeful that future boards will
continue the policy. The Board is left, by the wording of the
amendment with considerable leeway in the administering of the
elections, and it is with that in mind for the future that we pass
a final comment.

A further step which seems highly desirable, though cau-
tion must be used in the proceeding, is a check on histronics and
cigar-throwing campaign tactics that tend to throw the serious
selection of officers into a fiasco. Screening of speeches by the
Elections Board seems an extreme and unnecessary measure, one
which could have its purpose as well served by a meeting of
‘the candidates with the board prior to their delivery, in a general
conference where they might be briefed and reminded by the
board of the rules governing the presentation of candidates.

Now, as for judgment of our newly installed system. In-
terest, to be sure, has been created by talks where it had not been
before so. The candidates have become real people, not mere’
mimeographed names, and their stands have become grounds

(Continued On Page Four)

Learning that the college
planned to cut $75,000 in janitor
services ... a thousand under-
graduates armed with pillows,
firecrackers and bags of water
staged a midnight march on Nas-
sau Hall, wailing “We want
janitors.” Defying the six col-
lege proctors, they staged a
sit-down strike that clogged
traffic on Nassau Street for an

(This is the first of the ac-
counts which will be carried in
the Davidsonian on the discus-
sion between faculty and stu-
dents, initiating new thinking
on various phases of college
systems. The coverage was
made by Lee Harter.

At a recent after vespers forum
sponsored by the YMCA, held in
the home of Dr. McGavock of the
Mathematics Department last Sun-
day evening, the Davidson Honor
System was discussed in full. Five
students were in attendance repre-
senting the freshman, sophomore,
and junior classes,

~ After some length of discussion,
it was revealed that the practice
of breaching the Honor System in
several respects is quite general and
growing. In addition to the prac-
tice of breaching the Honor Sys-

tem, several of the faculty imposed

could make up for lack of
bicycling speed by their speed
in beer drinking. Before the
cyclists go as far as the Yale
Bow! one of them—~—a dean's
lise student—had lost his way.
The gear of one bike slipped
into high and stuck, remaining
stuck for the rest of the race,
and the trick knee of Whitey
Heist of the Quart Quintet

STUDENT-FACULTY DISCUSSION:
Davidson’s Honor System Challenged

tules were discussed which it was
held are also quite generally broken.

For purposes of merely an aca-
demic discussion, it was assumed
that an honor system is very de-
sirable; and with that assumption
in mind, the discussion was carried
to the point as to whether or not
an honor system should be “penal”
or “corrective.” In general concen-
sus, it was held that the ideal of
a corrective type system is rather
too idealistic, and the most prac-
tical type which could be in-
augurated would be a combination
of the two, both “penal” and “cor-
rective.”

Several aspects of the penalties
that might be assessed for the in-
fractions of the honor system and
faculty imposed rules were dis-
cussed and as a challenge to the
present system, it was suggested
that perhaps suspension or expul-
sion were penalties too hastily in-

Time grows short when we can,
with any dignity, chip our names
in the insoluble marble of true
greatness. Next week we shall con-
sider the tools that one might use
in such an endeavor,

From each according to his
abilities, to each according to
his needs.

—K. Marx.

voked.

The question was raised as to
whether or not suspension or ex-
pulsion were not. too severe for a
man’s first infraction; and although
no alternative method was sug
gested at this foram, the group was
in accordance that suspension and
expulsion were too severe for a
man's first mistake. It was sug-
gested that either of these penalties
might better be invoked for a man’s
second offense, substituting some
severe but lesser punishment for a
man’s first mistake,

Also at this forum, there was
some discussion as to the advisa~
bility of reporting the varigus meet-
ings held by the Executive Com-
mittee, the Faculty, and the Board
of Trustees. Accordance was again
reached in the idea that such ree
porting would alleviate the ter
rific problem of quelling the vicious
rumors that circulate the campus

With the advent of the new
church and the new dorm on
the campus, Shearer Hall seems
a tad out of place on the cam-
pus. Since they can't remove
the stucco very well, why not
tear the building down, and
build a replica of the old
chapel, along more modern in-
terior designs, and with more
modern facilities.

An interesting study in race re-
lations came up locally recently, and
the situation stirred up quite a
scandal in the community. We're
going to gather some more facts
between now and next week, and
come up with a real news story.

The library is installing more
shelves, in preparation for additional
volumes. We need them badly, but
if more students read the ones that
were already in use, the average
Davidsonian would become better
‘educated.

Governor Scott (a fellow mem-
ber of the rougher element) still
hasn't done anything about High-
way 21, Could be because Meck-
lenburg County voted Johnston and
Smith in the elections of past years.

The election board's idea of
waiting a day between speeches

he will fight socialism, though he
doesn’t mention exactly how he
will go about stopping the trend.
But at least he has taken a posi-
tion directly opposed to the Fair
Deal, and that is a great point in
his favor with many. On the other
hand, Taft's views on foreign policy
ate enough to confuse the most as-
tute observer. A few months ago
in Greensboro Taft let it be known
that “Only this emergency (the
immediate threat of Russian attack)
can justify a general program for
arming Europe in time of peace.”
Just why does Mr. Taft think the
Western nations want to rearm
Europe anyway?

On the other hand, although
liberal in hie views on foreign pol-
icy, we have no proof that he is an
anti-Fair Dealer. Neither do we
know how he feels about the cur-
rent labor situation, a factor which
is closely allied with the trend to-
ward the extreme welfare state.
Would Eisenhower, in order to get
himself elected, ally himself with
one specific group as Truman has?
The importance of this question
cannot .be overemphasized. As
columnist Frank Kent popinted out
fast Sunday:

No Obligations

“+ $0 far as the interests of
all the people are concerned the
most desirable quality for the next
President is complete freedom from
any link, tie, bond or obligation to

FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1952

The Friendly Philosopher: Seen.
From The Porch Of Rumple

* and voting is a good thing. It
gives the student body a chance
to recover from exhibitionism
and rabble rousing, and serious-
ly and intelligently consider the
candidates.

The coltege has been fairly slow
about getting out the new catalogue
this year. Rumors have it that it’s
been completely revamped, and will
be much better. Dr. Spencer has
been working hard to come through
with it. We do hope it appears
soon, however, so we can plan our
courses for next year before the
rush of exams begin.

“Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas”
Are we living according to that
motto today? There are too many
sleepy people, and conservatives
for the sake of conservatism around
here. Conservatives and sleepy peo-
ple have their eyes half closed,
and people with half-closed eyes
can’t even see the light, much less
let it shine in their minds and lives.

“And when the one greater Scorer
comes

To write against your name,

He writes not that you won or lost,

But how you played the game.”

Or Socialism
Most fe Important Election Issue?

any organized, occupational, racial,
religious or regional minorities. We
have had no such President since
1932. On the contrary, for twenty
years the dominant party has based
its political power upon these min-
orities. It has run the country in
their interests rather than that of
the great majority of us who do not
belong to them ... It has showered
governmental favors and support
upon organized tabor until it has
become the outstandingly favored
class.”

Boiled down, this writer sees the
basic question in the Ike-vs.-Taft
argument as this: Is foreign policy
or domestic policy most important
at the present? Should we consider
primarily what the next President
of the U. S. will do inside America
or what he will do for American
telations with the rest of the
world? Foreign policy, of course,
can make or break a country, but
the wisest foreign policy cannot
save a country which seems to be
emasculating itself by socialism.

As far as this writer is con-
cerned, Eisenhower is the man for
the job if he will take a strong
stand on the issues discussed above.
But if the General persists in mak-
ing mostly general statements, he
will not be alone in turning to sup-
port a man who no doubt has his
faults but at least takes a strong
stand on one of the great dssues of
the day.

“How Do I Know I Am Called”

by Bob Beyd of the Student
Volunteer Movement.)

Many young men have the notion
that to be a missionary requires a
special kind of “call.” But there is
nothing secret or mysterious about
this call for it is nothing more
than my seeing a need in God's per-
spective, and realizing chat God has
equipped me to meet it. This defi-
nition brings up several questions
what is “God’s perpective,” what

ad

on various occasions about some
of the many varied actions and
policies decided in these different
meetings.

From the students representing
the freshman class at this forum it
was learned that the Davidson
Honor System is not sufficiently
explained to the in-coming fresh-
men, and that perhaps some infrac-
tions were due ¢o this faulty ex-
plaiuing which rests upon the older
students and members of the faculty
who direct the orientation program.
It was very strongly advised that
the Honor System in the future be
very carefully, very minutely, and
very comprehensively explained to
all in-coming freshmen as well as
perhaps _giving all upper classmen
a refresher. a Fe

is “need,” and what am “I” and my
equipment.

First of all, seeing things in God's
perspective means that this matter
of call is our somehow being
brought to see life and ourselves
as God does, through the gift ot
His Holy Spirit. We understand,
too, the perspective of God as we
recall the command of Jesus to “Go
into all the world” and realize all
that Hes behind these words in one
God, Creator, who chose the Church
to proclaim His faithfulness.

With such a perspective, we
might ask what does the Christian
see as “need?” Certainly we size
up need from our own viewpoint.
Then, for those who see humanity
even momentarily in God's perspec-
tive, needs are revealed which com-
pletely elude the non-Christian, for
we know that “Man-shall live by
bread alone.” When we speak in
these terms we get a new under-
standing of the “1” which responds
to a call. After a man accepts
Christ he never quite belongs to
himself again; he belongs to God
in Christ. Then the “I” which has
found God is turned outward, given
God’s power to heal and reconcile.
Whether or not I am called to be
a missionary, I am assuredly called
to be missionary. For the “I” hag
become the released, proclaiming
self who belongs to God.

Today we are faced by the emer-
gence of the world community of

Christendom, a world-wide Church.
Doesn't this great new fact of the
world Church added to the early
command to “make disciples of all
nations” sharply focus the call to
proclaim the good news to those
who still have not heard it, and ex-
tend a kindly ministry to those who
are still untended? Surely Christ’s
commission to the Church is a call
to each of its members, a call to
be weighed and considered, a call
demanding decision!

Returning to the question with
which we originally began, what
are the marks by which I recog-
nize God’s call to me to be a mis-
sionary? Well, first of all, I need
to know what ‘God wants done and
this calls for Bible study, regular
association and worship with Chris-
tian friends, and times of quiet medi-
tation when God's voice may be
heard. I can be sure that as I seek,
I will find. Secondly, I must know
myself for part of God's will for
me is written in my physical frame
and in my personality. And then,
most difficult of all, I must accept
all that God tells me. Isutt that
what Jesus meant when he said, “If
any man wills to do my will he shall
know.” God's call to me will be
clear as I am ready to receive it.

There is a general obligation rest-

ing upon Christian men to see that .

the gospel of Jesus Christ is
preached to the world, We need no
(Continued On Page Pour)

|
|
!
