PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF ....................ssceeeeees BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ................0.:0055 ALEX GOLEY
Associate Editors .----...----.. Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,
George McMurray
Managing Editors -...-..... Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,

; John Ottley
Art Editor—Don Mahy Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager --..---.------------ Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager ~.-.-.--.------~-------------- Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager ~--------.----~---------------- Bob Poston
Collection Manager --.-----.---.------------------- Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager ..--.-------------------- Preston Chaney

ee
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Why Not Combine the Two Views
‘On Student Membership in YMCA

After a valiant but vain attempt to lift itself by the boot-
straps in the chapel debate and evening forum last Friday, the
YMCA finds that it has failed to create a live issue out of its
membership status and wonders, ‘‘Where do we go from here?’’

The very apathy which the Y heads were seeking to toss
out via issue stimulation killed theig attempts. Attention given
debaters was very good, considering compulsory attendance, but
the attendance forum that evening indicated a definite lack of
student interest in whether the Y membership should be volun-
tary or continue compulsory.

Aside from that which exists in the minds and the con-
cerned consciences of the Y leaders, there seems to be no real
issue. But to settle the matter, may we offer a proposed solution.

Those advocating a change to voluntary membership do
so, as we see it, on a theoretical basis. No one should be forced
to join and contribute to an organization if he does not so wish.
They contend volunteers will give more conscientiously of their
time and talents than will compelled members.

Practically, however, it is doubtful that the YMCA could
exist and perform even its present functions under voluntary
membership, for purely financial reasons. As it is now, the Y
employs all the boys it can who apply for Y work, and we can
safely assert that there is no ‘‘deadwood” among the present
group. How, then, shall the remainder of the student body con-
tribute if not through the initial registration Y membership fee
and the contribution to the vesper offering as a Y member?

Our proposal is a simple one. Mereiy make it possible for
a boy. on registering, to decline to pay the listed five dollar
Y fee if, he so desires. There is the volunteer idea in theory. Our
guess is one in a hundred will look at the listing and decline to
pay. The practical then has his money.

It is almost as good as having your cake and eating it,

‘~~
a

®&

Davidson’s brief encounter with
co-education Saturday is all but
forgotten now, Pleasant while it
lasted, but forgotten now. A worth-
while experiment, but forgotten
now. Didn’t we try to make it
work? Didn't we act like gentle-
men? Didn't we restrain ourselves?
Didn't we? The executive commit-
tee’s verdict? Will co-education
work? Hah! !

Just like ants crawl on anything
too tired to fight them off, like-
wise did: two hundred western
North Carolina high school stu-
dents swarm over the campus after
five hard days of classes. Many a
weary, bleary-eyed collegian, start-
ing a dreary Saturday with a stuck
drawer or a balky shower nozzle,
looked out of his window to see
looking in two beady eyes, smaller
and more alert than his own.

Inspecting them closer, he found
them to be (a) without bags under
them in most cases and (b) not
bloodshot, from which he concluded
that (a) the owner was not another
collegian, (b) there was something
funny about all this and (c) what
did it matter anyway?

This reasoning sustained most of
us until the crisis had passed, since
we hadn't seen a girl since high
school and were unimpressed by
the lack of change in the species
during the one to four years since
graduation.

But other more inquisitive scho-

S. V. M.

too.

Fraternity Discussions Bring
Religion Close To Campus Lite

Emphasis on discussion, particularly through the medium
of fraternity house sessions, should make the Spring Services
next week the most beneficial religious services held on the
campus in some time.

Predicated on the fact that the conference is a better mode
of instruction than is the lecture, the discussion groups in the
dormitories and fraternity houses will draw a greater number of
the student body members into the Spring Services program and
will relatively increase the spiritual gain to each man in attend-
ance.

The use of the fraternity houses for post-supper informal
chats, built around the talk of the morning, is an effective way
of tying religious thought more really to our lives. The plan
is another step forward by the special services committee in the
constant improvement, of late, in the stimulation of religious
interest and thought on the campus.

(Following is the third of
“Eight Questions Students
Ask About Missions,” as set
forth in tha pemphiet of the
National Student Volunteer
Movement to be discussed in
The Davidsonian. Thie conden-
sation is by a Davidson SVM
member.)

“Isn't the Missionary Job Already
Done?”

“Wait now! Why should we send
missionaries to India? They have
their own leadership now. Why
should we interfere and halter their
progress?” asks the “informed”
American churchman, sitting in his
stately church of 1625 vintage.
China, India, Japan, Indonesia, Bra-
zil, South Africa, Persia, the Is-
Jands of the Pacific, Korea, Siam,
the Gold Coast, and Chile: all are
now parts of a world-wide Church.
These younger churches are show-
ing that they have an independent
reality grounded in their own ex-
perience of Jesus Christ, The
Church of South India, for instance,
has pioneered in bringing together
several denominational groups. No-
table also is the missionary concern
of the younger churches. Protestant
missionaries from Brazil are at work
in Portugal, as are Koreans in
China.

A new day is ushered in: Mod-
ern missions, as a world movement,
has ceased to be the sending of the
Gospel from America and Europe
to the “benighted heathen” of non-

On The Economy Of Time

There are three things that every Davidson man does a
lot of. He eats, sleeps, and studies. Beginning with the supposi-
tion that a student will sleep eight hours a day and will spend
thirty minutes during each of three meal periods, we may ask
ourselves the question: ‘‘Where and how do I spend the remain-
ing fourteen and a half hours of the day?”

Obviously, a significant amount of this time is spent per-
forming the mechanics of life, i.e., dressing, undressing, taking
a shower, getting a haircut, writing letters, checking the P.O.
Extra curriculars, various and sundry sorts of athletics, and school
classes consume another sizable hunk of our twenty-four hour day,
Despite all of these, it would amaze you if you figured up the
number of hours during the day that could be utilized for study.

Regardless of how many of these possible study hours we
use, whether it be forty-five minutes of eight hours a day, we
should be interested in getting the most out of our study time.
If we should increase our studying efficiency 30 per cent, and
some of us can increase it more, think of the time we could have
on our hands. We could either have more time to study our
work more thoroughly or we would have added free time to do
with what we pleased.

Here are a couple of economy study hints: Study day by
day; avoid that last night review cramming. More can be better
learned in the same amount of study time if you break your
work up into daily study periods. Don’t just read to understand
or become familiar with your subject but be intent on retaining
and being able to recite. If you are interested in the organiza-
tion and techniques of improved concentrative study check by

| che library for books on“this subject. It pays off.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

a Oe wes

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Campus Resumes Fierce YMCA
Dispute As Coeducation Fails

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

lars, curious about just who clse
on the campus would be interested
in a balky shower nozzle, investi-
gated and found that the beady,
alert eyes belonged to delegates
to the annual North Carolina Music
Educators’ Competition. While the
easterners were ge(ting unstrung at
Duke, twenty-nine western schools
were represented by approximately
250 aspirants here.

“We make no bones about it,” ad-
mitted Kenneth Moore, of the
music faculty, who had charge of
the event. “The publicity that Da-
vidson received was a major moti-
vation in deciding to hold it here.”
Commenting on the college's co-
operation in donating its facilities,
Moore expressed the hope that the
convention could become an an-
nual event, not at all bitter about
stuck drawers or balky shower
nozzles,

Moore went on to explain that
the NCMEA competition is a reg-
istrar’s utopia in that those students
who participate in extracurricular
ensemble and solo work are the out-
standing products of the instru-
mental program in secondary
schools, and that such a competi-
tion automatically singles out the
most promising college music pros-
pects.

There ‘was, however, no cham-
pion declared among the contest-

ants. Competing against the fixed

Evropean areas. Our missionaries,
however, can aid in the evangeli-
zation of Japan, for example, but
the leadership must be taken by
the Japanese church.

Yet we must realize, first, that
the Christian world mission is only
at its beginning; and second, the
younger churches are still pitifully
small minorities within their own
ations. Two-thirds of mankind are
estimated to be outside of the
Christian community. Our job is
one of facing and overcoming, in
the power of Christ, streamlined
old idolatries, the new “ism’s” of
today, and unmet human needs.
God's love becomes concern for
every aspect of human welfare.

While we recognize the amazing
fact of the growth and existence of
the younger churches we must be
realistic in realizing that the new
churches are set as tiny minorities
in the vast non-Christian and some.
times anti-Christian environment.
Christians number fewer than 1 in
200 of the population in the world
outside Europe and America.

The Christian world strategy
must be directed toward dedicated
redistribution of manpower. In

American 50% of the population is.

related to some Church; in Asia the
figure is less than 1%%. The
younger churches want missionaries
to help them in their task, Real pio-
‘neers are needed, such as in the
ministry to labor, a group to which
in industrial as well as agricultural

standards set up by the NCMEA,
soloists and ensemble groups could
expect only criticism and a rating
on their individual performances
without reference to other con-
testants. The rating sheet is a
comprehensive and confused piece
of paper with columns allowing for
comments on contestant’s accuracy,
tone, color of eyes, technic, rhythm,
phrasing, telephone number and in-
terpretation. Theoretically, every-
one could have come out with the
highest rating, that of superior.
Next down the list were excelient,
good, average and below average.

Although there were no top-
ranking schools, several groups
stood out. Among these were the
perpetually high-ranking Lenoir
Rhyne, Gastonia, Marion, Thomas-
ville and Asheville’s Lee Edwards.

Questioned on the human interest
side of the day’s program, Moore
grinned, and with a twinkle in his
eye, chuckled, “Now of course you
can't print this, but ...” Reluctant-
ly, this scribe agreed as the youth-
ful and usually hard-working music
mentor spent fifteen minutes re-
calling unprintable anecdots. Noth-
ing indecent, of course, but still too
much for a boys’ college newspaper.
Mr. Moore will be in his office
every afternoon next week to see

anyone interested in helping with
next year’s program or hearing
about this year’s,

“Isn’t The Missionary Job Already Done?”

areas Communism appeals more to-
day than any other faith.

Because the Church is one fam-
ily, we look to continuing increase
in mutual help and exchange of
leadership between all parts of the
Church. Can we be so blind as to
call the missionary task “complete,”

when more than half the people of
the world are outside the knowledge
of Jesus Christ? The mission task
is not completed, has not been
wound up and laid away. We still
face the fresh meaning of “Go ye
into all the wofld and preach the
Gospel.”

GOING PLACES

A group of enterprising students
at Yale University have published
a little book called “Going Places,”
designed to help college men date
college women on a_ sounder,
smoother basis.

Twenty women's colleges are
dealt with at some length, including
maps of each campus, important
telephone numbers and details
about curfew.

One of these colleges, we regret
to say is a fiction. Located some-
where in New Hampshire, its wo-
men are beautiful and its regula-
tions are lax. The editors hope
other colleges will take the hint.

NAT DANIEL:

FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1952

A Warning To Student Body:
The Disease ‘Of Indifference

In recent weeks both the pros | effectve action.

and cons concerning voluntary
YMCA membership have been
tossed out to members of the stu-
dent body, aired publicly in debate,
and an attempt has been made to
give the issue the impetus it needs
to be resolved successfully. Most
of the arguments favor voluntary
Y memberhip, but the issue at stake
is not as important as the Way it
has been received—or more ac-
curately—not been received by the
student body at large. The students
—nominally members of the Y,
seem completely indifferent and
disinterested in the issue at stake,
which should be vital to all con-
cerned. It is evident that a change
is necessary—the Y organization as
it is is ineffective and cumbersome
in many way, but few people seem
to want to do anything about it.
They sit back and express opinions,
but are too indifferent to put those
opinions into action. And this very
indifference is one of the reasons
why membership should be volun-
tary: An organization with indif-
ferent membership is incapable of

To be indifferent is first of
all to be lazy, too lazy to get
up from the table, or out of the
sack, and wake up to many of
the problems of campus
society; to get up enough en-
ergy to really find out some
facts, discriminate and weigh
the evidence, and draw intelli-
gent conclusions concerning the
problem; too lazy to give to our
world what we owe it as citi-
zens.

To be indifferent is to be stupid;
so stupid to recognize the import-
ance of the things that are going
on around us; too stupid to real-
ize that each day presents new
challenges, new ideas, new prob-
lems which must be evaluated and
investigated if we are to grow in
wisdom and in knowledge; too stu-
pid to realize that in dealing with
relatively simple problems which
confront us today, we may learn
how to cope with the more com-
plex problems of our life tomorrow.

To be indifferent is to be self-
fish; too selfish to want to do

LOOK AT THE FLAPPER ERA;
Writer Compares, Finds Our Generation
As Panned By Time No Worse Than Others

By JAMES TINTNER, Ass ociated College Press Reporter

All older generations have one
tradition in common: their habit of
talking about younger generations.
Last November, Time magazine
carried on the tradition.

Time asked the question, “Is it
possible to paint a portrait of an
entire generation?” What followed
were four pages about “The
Younger Generation”—a portrait
painted in vivid, brilliant color.

According to Time, each (genera-
tion) has a quality as distinctive as
a man’s accent.” Maybe so. But
whether or not an older generation
is capable of feeling out these dis-
tinctions is another question. To
find out how other Younger Gen-
erations—Time’s, for instance—have
been sized up by their elders, we
went back to articles written in the
20s and '30s. ;

Below are 10 Time quotations
plus an equal number of quotations
about other younger generations.
The result, we believe, is that

Time’s colors become _ slightly
blurred.
—Time: Today's generation,

either through fear, passivity or
conviction, is ready to conform.

Maxine Davis in “The Lost
Generation,” 1936: This lack of re-
volt is more ominous than active
radicalism.

ee

—Time: The most startling fact
about the younger generation is
its silence. With some rare excep-
tions, youth is nowhere the rostrum.
By comparison witit the Flaming
Youth of their fathers and mothers,
today’s younger generation is still
bh small flame. It does not issue
manifestos, make speeches, or carry
posters. It has been called the
“Silent Generation.” But what does
the silence mean? What, if any-
thing, does it hide?

~Forum, 1922: But perhaps their
(youth’s) scandalous failure in ex-
pression, when expression is what
they yearn for and demand at all
costs, may be a symptom of some-
thing deeper: of a radical mistake
they have made in the direction of
their efforts and aspirations.

ee 6

—Time: There is no formal re-
ligious revival among the young
Americans, God . . . is still a

vaguely comforting thought, theo-
logy a waste of time, and denomi-
nations beside the point. To large
numbers of them, religion is still
merely an ethical code. But God
(whoever or whatever they under-
stand by that word) has once more
become a factor in the younger
generation’s thoughts.

—Outlook, 1925: That most young
people, and especially that growing
number of them who are finding
their way to and through college,
are comparatively indifferent to
many of the questions that have
divided the churches into camps
factions is apparent. To some this
appears a sign of religious indif-
ference. It may be indeed, a sign
of indifference to doctrine and dog-
ma, but. it is not a sign of indif-
ference to religion.

s @ @

—Time: The younger generation
seems to drink less. “There is noth-
ing glorious or inglorious anymore
about getting stewed,” said the col-
lege professor.

—American Mercury, 1931: Most
American men, I believe, drink less
today than they did 10 years ago
and a great deal less than they
drank in 1900, So with college boys.
They may go on occasional gaudy
toots, but the steady boozing of
30 years ago is now out of fashion.

es * @

—Time: But youth’s ambitions
have shrunk. Few youngsters today
want to mine diamonds in South
Africa, ranch in Paraguay...

—Literary Digest, 1936: Ambi-
tions have been humbled, enter-
prise has been chilled.

*e@ 8

—Time: Novelists like Truman
Capote, William Styron and Fred-
erick Beuchner are precocious tech-
nicians, but their books have the
air of suspecting that life is long
on treachery, short on rewards.
What some critics took for healthy
revolt in James Jones’ “From Here
to Eternity" was really a massive-
ly reiterated gripe against life, But
Jones is not the only young writer
to wallow in a world of seemingly
private resentments. Most of his
fellow writers suffer from what
has become their occupational di-
sease: belief that disappointment is

anything which concerns our
fellow human being; too sel-
fish to come out of our little
eafe shells lined with papa’s
checkbook, and give ourselves
to the task of making the world
a better place for our neigh-
bor and his descendants to live.

To be indifferent is to be imma-
ture; too immature to stop behaving
like adolescents and take upon our-
selves the responsibilities which
the world of today holds as a chal-
lenge to us—the personal challenge
of bettering ourselves, the national
challenge of bettering our nation,
the human challenger: creating one
world, and the Christian challenge:

-making our best better for God.

But we sit here idle and care not
that man, unless we ourselves do
something, may be well on the road
to self-destruction.

And so the problem is not so
much whether or not the YMCA
has voluntary membership, but
more burning questions are: What

"do you think, and what are you

going to do about it?

life’s only certainty.

—Saturday Review of Literature,
1935: It can be said without much
likelihood of contradition that the
middle generation of American
writers have defeatist written on
their foreheads.

; eee

—Time: In real life, youth seems
to know, peoples always drop the
ball. Youth today has little cyni-
cism, because it never hoped for
much. ‘

—Literary Digest, 1927: Can you
be surprised if a generation, robbed
of its youth, with its ideals empty
as blown bubbles around it, turned

for a time to a mood of pessimistic

cynicism .. . ‘The mood has passed,

and the. younger generation is at-

tempting soberly to adjust itself to

this bruised world. .
e@e@ 86

‘Time: Educators across the
U. S. complain that young people
seem to have no militant beliefs.
They do not speak out for anything.

—New York Times, 1920 (in an
editorial): Why are college boys so
inert, so seldom rebels or anarchs?
Several elaborate and far-fetched
explanations have lately been made
by college professors . .

* 68

—Time: Perhaps more than any
of its predecessors, this generation
wants a good job.

—Literary Digest, 1926: A resume
of the replies to the question,
“What would you like to accom-
plish within the next 10 years?”
shows ... that the majority indi-
cate a desire ... to get an eco-
nomically safe position . . . to ob-
tain a good position in society ...
to be a successful business man
... to attain money,

s 8 *¢

—Time: “I observe that you share
the prevailing mood of the hour,”
Yale’s President A. Whitney Gris-
wold told his graduating class last
June, “which in your case consists
of bargains privately struck with
fate—on fate’s terms.”

—Commencement speech, 1937.
by Harold W. Dodds, president of
Princeton University: “It is easy in
these days to feel that fate plays
with crooked dice loaded against
you.”

Who Controls The College Press?

A poll taken among college edi-
tors at last fall’s ACP convention
throws considerable light on the
question of college press censorship.
The feature service will include
detailed results of this poll in later
issues,

Meanwhile, here is a cross-sec-
tion of answers from editors of
state supported schools to the ques-
tion, “What types of editorials are
most likely to be censored by the
administration?”

“Controversial editorials which
might affect the state budget for
the school.”

“My editorials when they are on
an important issue.”

“ . . Policy of administration,
football, scholarships . . .”

“In all cases this censorship
would be after publication.”

“The administration gives us af under fire.”

free hand.”
“We have at times called admin-
istration officials down—particular-
ly over loyalty oath—with no pres-
sure of any sort resulting.”
“Those dealing with allocation of
our activity fee have recently been

“Editorials blasting school policies
and campus conditions.”

“Gripes or criticism on action of
the ‘state legislature, and mention
of things that might hurt ‘U’ pub-
lic relations—reference to liquor,
ete,”

rg
IT'S ALL IN THE WAY YOU LOOK AT IT!

The following contains typical phrases that we read daily in the
newspapers, Their logical interpretations are in parenthesis:

“,.. was rolled up in sweeping gains by the U.N, military machine.”

(We captured a hill inKorea.)

+ . yielded only after relentless suicidal attacks by hordes of

crazed Oriental fanatics.” (They took it back.)
“,..5 MIGS destroyed in U.N. air victory.” (Russians lost 5 planes.)
“ee No American losses reported.’ (You have to guess it!)
“, « » Disorganized Chinese units fleeing in wild panic before the
onslaught of the Allied forces.” (They're retreating.)
“. ++. Planned withdrawal to more strategic positions in the rear.”

(We're retreating.)

JOHN LANGFORD-—Ga. Tech “Technique”
