PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIA

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR
ne
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF --...-...-.-------------- Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER ...--.-------------------- Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR ..----.-..---.-------------- John Ottley
Associate Editors -.......  -------- Brinkley, Harter, Hope,

Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.
Managing Editors ..---..---.----- Hassett, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor ---...---------------------------= Dick Roper

Feature Editor—T. A. Williams
Assignments—Strand.

News Editor—D. M. Smith
Arts Editor—Mahy

Photographer -..--.-.---.-------------- eee ene n ens ennn ne Simons
Assistant Business Manager -.-.------------------------ Poston
Advertising Manager ...--.------------------22-2-2----- Hasty
Circulation Manager -..--.-------------------------- Nicholson
Collection Manager ~-------.----------------------- Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Fost Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

POLITICAL ISSUE

DEMOCRATS:

Editor
Associate Editors

. REPUBLICANS:

Editor
‘Associate Editors

cece ewan ewe sew se soeweceeseecsosessoees

eee ee

Davidsonian Backs Ike and Adlai
Both Leaders are Well Qualified’

Seldom before in our history has there been two candi-
dates for the presidency of the United States that are as capa-
ble of fulfilling this high post as Eisenhower and Stevenson.
Both men have the many fine qualities of leadership, honesty.
capability, and courage that are essential to success in this high
office.

Rarely before has there been such a wide-spread interest
in a national election on the part of the adults and youth of
this nation. The air is literally bristling with controversy be-
tween the supporters of the two parties. The shouts range from
“We like Ike” to “We like Ike, but we'll vote for Stevenson.”

In keeping with our platform of full and unbiased cover-
age of the news, The Davidsonian is for the first time giving
representation to both major political parties. It is hoped that
our readers will look at both sides of the issues as presented by
our special political staff. and actually do some serious think-
ing about the candidates and the parties which they represent.
On November 4, if you are eligible, be sure to vote for the man
of your choice.

We think that it is of great significance that America has
the choice between these two great leaders. One of the unique
qualities of our democratic system is the way party conflicts be-
fore an election are put aside after the candidate has been chosen,
and both sides rally to support the new administration. Re-
gardless of who wins, we are Americans first and party members
second. We can be assured that the light of freedom will continue
to shine out from the United States and that we will maintain
2 united effort with all free nations to preserve the principals of
justice, freedom, and individual dignity against the tyranny
of Communism.

We Have A Legitimate Gripe
About The Holiday Situation

It seems clear that the student body has a legitimate gripe
for a change. To require, by means of calendar and double
cuts, 800-odd men to hazard New Year's Day traffic or to at-
temp to arrange reservations on public transportation systems,
and to miss whatever plans their families have for the end of
the holiday season is reason enough for a squeal. It is particular-
ly so when it is realized that only two days of classes are in-
volved.

We doubt seriously that if the accumulated wisdom and
experience of the administration were applied to this problem
the solution would not be quickly arrived at . . . without Da-
vidson’s falling from her academic graces in the associations she
has attained to.

There have been, as we all know, several proposals pre-
sented which would leave the necessary days of the scholastic
year. We are sure that there are others that are forthcoming.

It would leave one to almost suggest that a failure to solve
this difficulty, which is obviously real, would not spring from
a lack of ability on the part of the administration . . . but from
a lack of desire. We, of course, would never make such a surmise
for it would lead people to believe that there are those who con-

‘sider the plan more important than those planned for.

We think that perhaps the most valid reason for the ex-
tension would be that to return before the weekend would
deprive many of an opportunity to see some one of the various
bow! games. The other reasons, such as constant reminders to
cut down holiday travel, the consideration of boys who get
home only once a year, the fears that mothers have built up
about the drunken drivers on New Year's eve and day are really
more negligible.

Our parting word to the reader is this: If you have a
legitimate gripe . . . gripe, but gripe to those who are in position
to make or encourage the change—D.H.M.

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

English Debators, Less Cowed
By Baptists, Talk More Freely

(Before coming to Davidson

a couple of .weeks ago, Eng-

lish debators Kenneth Dibben

and Ronald George Evans
put in an appearance at Wake

Forest College. While there

they were interviewed by Old

Gold and Black reporter Wil-

fred. Winstead. Due to their

rushed schedule and the lack
of opportunity for the aver-
age Davidsonian to get to
know them, we are reprinting
this week part of Mr. Win-
stead’s interview as it appeared
in the Old Gold and Bisck of

October 27.)

“American college students take
things more seriously than do
British students, such as football
and debating,” agreed Ronald
George Evans and Kenneth Dib-
ben, the Britisher who debated here
October 17.

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

According to Evans, from Lian-
gollen, North Wales, and Dibben,
from Southampton, England,Amer-
cans have a differént scale of values
from people “at home.” “Every-
one here is striving to win in what-
ever activity he is engaged in,”
said Evans, “while in Britain we
do not even have judged debates,
for instance.” Thus the main dif.

ference between American and
British attitudes was summed
up....

Their experience at Ellis Island,
the importation center, was the
worst of their visit thus far. While
there, a customs official dubiously
questioned Evans, a socialist, about
literature he carried concerning the
Fabian Society, a socialist organiza.
tion. After carefully reading the
material, he muttered, “Your poli-
tics are your own damn business”
and passed the two men.

ale  \\fanners Overshadow Rightness

THE FREE LANCE:

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1952

THE DAVIDSONIAN en Se

gp. 4 |Student Leaders Should Not Let

bs 7;
he

3)

8:30 am.

“The first thing that impressed
the Britisher about the United
States was the docking of the Queen
Elizabeth. The liner came right up
to the roadway, instead of dock-
ing some distance out as it did in
England. Immediately they were
confronted with a “stream of traf-
fic’ and were amazed by the
“smartly-dressed people, especial-
ly the women.” The skyline of New
York, “stupendous” and: “gigantic
in scale compared to London,” and
the Statue of Liberty impressed
them, as they do all people enter-
ing the United States for the first
time ....
Opposing Politics

Speaking of their being chosen
to make the trip (they had never
met each other prior to their selec-
tion), Dibben said, “I am glad
Ronald was not a conservative also.

(Continued on Page Six)

Dr. Daugherty Delivers Memorable Address
On The Need For A Rational Christianity

One of the most provocative and
challenging messages ever present.
ed to the students here was de-
livered last week in chapel by Dr.
Daugherty. Speaking with his soft
brouge and burred “r’s’” he probed
deeply into a subject which is
crucial to a man’s day by day ex-
istence, and yet is often dealt with
inadequately or negatively by many
preachers: that of applied, or prac-"
tical, Christianity. It was a singu-
lar privilege to hear Dr. Daugh-

EDITORS MAIL:

By RONALD WILSON

erty’s astute distillation of the pre-
cepts and principles which govern
us, and their direct application to
the lives of the average laymen.
He presented a rational hypo-
thesis of life; a realistic, calculated
coalition between the profundities
of theology and the actions of the
world: and individuals, which, when
integrated, form the basis for a
workable dynamic faith. Too often
we are gorged full of the ethereal
quality of worship and belief, which

cy

Inquiring Student Asks
What Davidson Stands For?

Dear Editor:

The question of the Christmas holidays has made evident a
much more important question than that of the holidays. That ques-
tion is: “What does Davidson stand for, anyway?”

I was under the impression that we, the students, came to
Davidson for the purpose of learning and getting an “education.”

1 was under the impression that

Davidson was here for the pur-

pose of giving us that education in exchange for our tuition fee.
However, it now seems that Davidson is not here for that at all.
It seems that Davidson’s main purpose now is to show the stu-
dents, who are sent here by their parents, just who is the boss,
The students cannot decide WHEN they get this education, they
cannot safely criticize the policies of the college, and they cannot
learn, by having responsibility placed on them, how to grow up.

Perhaps the powers that be are really trying to help us, but
they certainly do not understand us, Most of us do not want to do
the things the college has forbidden us to do, but we do want
the ability to decide that we don’t want to do them. That ability

is taken away when the college

makes the rules in every minute

detail. If the administration would learn that co-operation and not
coercion is the way to get things done, perhaps there would be
less discontent with the way Davidson is run.

There seems to be little chance that Davidson wiil change,
though. For like the law of the Meades and the Persians, once a
rule is made, it is unchangeable, even though it be poor. So, fellow
Davidsonians, you might as well give in and accept with compla-
cence the predestined schedule of this year.

DAVE MATHEWS.

is no more than the spun candy
of religion, melting and dissolving
when we taste it, but the body and
substance of faith is left to the
hearer’s imagination, leaving him
with the historical facts of the Bi-
ble, yet sadly lacking in the ca-
pacity to reconcile his life decisive-
ly with the tenets of his religion.

Dr. Daugherty in his address pro-
vided the bridge between abstruse
theology and the practicality of the
modern world. Christians are not

the only people who can be genu-

inely concerned for humanity and
welfare of the world, nor are
atheists the only ones who are
liable to shortcomings and faults.
The line of demarcation between
the two is not alway definitive, nor
is it important. A Christian is
more concerned about the fullfil-
ment of a work project which is
for the betterment of mankind
than he is about the religious lean-
ings of the individuals who carried
out the work. To condemn a man’s
achievements, whether good or bad,
simply because he does not pro-
fess a belief in Christ is like refus-
ing to buy a certain product be.
cause it was not manufactured in
your own town, The assimilation
and practice of what is moral, ethi-
cal, and honest in relation to each
individual’s beliefs is infinitely
more important than the lip serv-
ice which he gives to a particular
creed

A man's philosophy of life must
be integrated with his philosophy
of religion into a single motivating
force; he cannot use one, then
the other, interchangeably as dif-
ferent circumstances rise without
becoming hypocritical.

Davidson being Davidson, and a
church school, we have amongst
us some misty-eyed theoiogiats
whose Christianity is vociferous

(Continued on Page Six)

One of the most dangerous con-
sequences of the Davidson brand
of authoritarianism was rather vivid-
ly portrayed for us in chapel last
Wednesday. Are we nourishing
men who will think and have faith
in their thinking to act or men who
will think and then falter when
there is hint of disappointing
authority?

We are reminded of the old
adage “Do something even if
its wrong.” Frankly we were
appalled at the apparent re-
luctance of student leadership
to take any course of action to-
ward resolving the Christmas
holiday mess.

Many critics of this column be-
lieve we advocate radicalism for
its own sake. What we advocate
is intelligent action in the students’
interest.

There is supreme doubt in our
minds from time to time as to just
what Davidson is being run for—
the convenience of certain parties
or the general welfare of the stu-
dents.

Admittedly this is no easy
question to answer and in
many cases there are cases
where the students’ convenience
is not justified. There are other
cases where the students’ de-
mands are obviously out of line
‘with what they might seek for
themselves in maturer years.
We cannot, in all fairness, under-

stand why, once the calendar com.
mittee has set its calendar up, it
is immune to the thought of de-
viation.

In the United States we have
a tendency to pride ourselves on
a will to get things done. We
are an active lot and believe we
have a part in shaping the future.

By JOHN OTTLEY

On the other hand a silly
excuse is given the students
that every so many years the
Christmas holidays will be
snafued. This sounds so much
like the Oriental Kismet it is
sad. “It ia so written in the
great book of Time.”

Why, in the name of thunder,
can’t school be started some days
earlier on those “fateful years.” It
is absurd to surrender to a column
of figures representing days with
the placidity befitting an Arab.

That is but a background
issue. What really concerns us
is the fact that a man had to
stand up from the student body
and suggest that we take action
just in the hope of results.
Some one answers that the lead-

ers must have the backing of the
student body to maintain a demo-
ocratic student. government, True
enough, but backing is one thing
and leading is another.

We feel most assured that had
a man not moved for a petition for
double cuts to be removed with
only the hope of its getting ap-
proved by the Executive Committee
that the matter would have been
dropped,

When optimism is at such a
low among both student lead-
ers and students, we are in.
clincd to think there is need
for a change in attitude. Do we
not recall a speech which cli-
maxed with the ringing words
“a man who will not be afraid
to go before the Trustees?”
The Executive Committee is not

the Board of Trustees, but if a
man has no fear of facing the lat-
ter board, it would seem that he
would have the fortitude to take a
firm step before the former even

DAVIDSONIAN_ ABROAD:

Short Trip To Berlin Proves Enlightening
For Visiting Davidsonian Honor Student

The lights: of Soviet Germany
stione beneath our plane. It rattled
so that the traditional German meal
of kraut, potatoes, frankfurters,
and beer began to make my
stomach feel funny. Two French
newly-weds were chattering by my
side, as we all watched the hori.
zon.

Suddenly a mass of lights, red,
green and multicolored, appeared
before us. Only Berlin could be
so vast. We circled and landed at
Tempelhof.

With the curious sensation of
being surrounded by Russians, 1
left the airport, boarded a bus, and
went off in the night.

At the Berlin Political College
a girl student was waiting for me.
We went to a fancy cafe where
some Parisian and Berlin students
were laughing over the latest joke
on Joe Stalin. “Look what I found,”
said my student friend, and the
Berliners cheered heartily.

Sentiment was strong against the
Russians. A week before the anti.
communist free jurist, Dr. Lindse,
had been attacked, thrown into 2
taxi, and kidnapped into the So-

‘ —

By HERMAN BELL

viet sector, “Yes, we love freedom,”
said the Germans as they pointed
out the Freedom Bell, a gift from
America, which hangs in the West
Berlin Senate. In spite of danger
many students fanatically espoused
the cause of liberty. “Why did not
America join us after the war to
liberate the Russian people from
Communism?’’ they asked naively.

Professor lectured on the Schu-
man plan, which unites Western
European coal and steel, and will
thus make wars between France
and Germany “impossible.” The
French students with me were wel-
comed warmly.

Soviet Berlin has distinctly in-
ferior merchandise. Their money
which was supposed to be worth
the free German money was
actually one-fifth its value on the
exchange. Billboards of Stalin and
Lenin decorated the blasted build-
ings. Perhaps the only attractive
feature was a ballet by Prok-
offiev, Cinderella, in the City
Opera. A German friend came with
me to buy the ticket, but since it
was unsafe for him to stay where
he could be identified as an anti-

There’s

if he fears it will be bashing fu-
tily into the spongy wall of
authority.

Surely there is-all to gain and
nothing to lose in this case.

Embryonic Whiteheads

There are perhaps two courses
which discourage more freshmen
than any two others in the curri-
culum. One is freshman chemistry
which serves as a rightful weeding
out process of those would-be pre-
meds who really wouldn’t be.

The other is a course in basic
algebra. It has been the nemesis
and perennial gripe of every
freshman class since the course
became -required. Freshmen
gripe a lot, but when men are
so concentrated upon one thing
we wonder if they can all be
‘wrong.

The standard argument is that
the course teaches them to think,
It disciplines their minds. Psychol-
ogy has pretty well shot to pieces
that mental disciplinary idea. Tf a
man is not mathematically inclined
he merely memorizes the formulae.

How can a thing so closely
allied with so much misery in-
stall in a man anything ap-
proximating the love of learn.
ing? If we must make scholars
of them all the hard way why
not make it a course in business
arithmetic which will at least

‘be of some use to them later in

running their households?

We look at the utility angle be-
cause it is suggested often as a
reason why the course is made
compulsory. Except in physics and
a few other isolated science courses
algebra is simply not employed
here or elsewhere. We shudder to
think how seldom one would call

(Continued on Page Six)

communist and imprisoned for five
years, he left me with my French
friends to enjoy an excellent bal-
let. I was afraid to speak to the
five--year-old child beside me since

I had no diplomatic protection. A
red agent, noticing my American
clothes, asked me several questions
during the intermission. “Nein,” I:
replied politely.

Berlin is a city of green forests
and meadows and super avenues.
The ruins of the Reichstag domi-
nate a tree-less park, and a Sovict
victory monument is nearby to
mock it. Above the Brandenburg
Gate floats the red flag, and here
the “island of freedom in a red sea”
ends.

1 left Berlin on the French mili-
tary train. A thunderstorm broke
out at Wannsee and lasted until
we reached Potsdam station. Three
Russian soldiers were standing on
the platform. They had drab green
uniforms with red trinimings and
a carbine slung over their shoulder.
One walked within a foot of where
IT was leaning out. of the window
and looked me in the eyes.

lots of excitement

around the dance floor—greeting
old friends, making new ones.
Part of the fun of campus parties
is the pause to enjoy a Coke.

It’s delicious... refreshing, too.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF INE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.

Cale?” ts @ reghtered trade-mark.

© 1982, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
