THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEELY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

THE FREE LANCE:

EDITOR: IN-CHIEF Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER ..------------------------ Jack Hobson

ASSISTANT EDITOR ...-...--------------------- John Ottley
Associate Editors ..------ Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope, Myers
Managing Editors Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens

We wonder if the evolution of a

Sports Editor --------------e--oreceernecornn 7 Dick Roper “New Liberalism” in America has
News Editor—D. M. Smith Feature Editor—T. A. Williams brought our thinking to the point
Arts Editor—Mahy Assignments~~Strand. where it is foolish or immature to
Photographer -.-.------~------------ 2-2-2 none ner eennne Simons assume an air of respect if not
P $6
Assistant Business Managet --..------------------------ Poston reverence when the Stars and
Advertising Manager .--.------.------------------------ Hasty ae W ibe raised.
Subscription Manager ..-..-------------~-------------- Chaney t the game certain mem-
Circulation Manager -.---.-.--.---.----------------- Nicholson bers of the faculty, their wives, and
Collection Manager ----------------------e-------=+ Douglas townspeople were observed by a
Manager -------------------- member of the military department

to be chatting and otherwise creat-
ing a diversion during the raising
of the flag and playing of the na-
tional anthem.

We are, it has been said, very
far removed from Korea and the
‘world in general here at Davidson,
but are we ever removed from the
heritage which Old Glory sym-
bolizes?

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

United Appeal Opens Oct. 20;
Are We Going To Support It?

Charlotte and Mecklenburg County will kick off a real
drive October 20, when the United Community Service cam-
paign opens to raise $760,000. The money will go to twenty-
six charitable organizations within the county including such
nationals as the- American Red Cross, American Cancer Society.
American Heart Association, Salvation Army. U.S.O., and etc..
Local groups such as the Charlotte YMCA. Boy Scouts, Mis-
sions, Clinics, Boys’ Clubs and many other groups will also
benefit from the drive.

It seems that a campaign of this nature is also very fitting
at Davidson. Rather than having three or four different cam-
paigns throughout the year, why doesn't the student body get

Perhaps when one is no
longer a student one acquires
a license to ignore the great
deeds which have made our
country the bastion of liberty
in the civilized world. We do
not think so.

There is much wrong with
America; only a fool would deny
it. There are numerous dark spots
in our history when we have not
done the most honorable thing.
Nevertheless free thought as an
attribute of civilized man is at a

FROM THE EDITORS MAILBOx:

squarely behind one campaign and really make it a success? This
would not include the local YMCA Christmas gift fund however,
but would do away with all the other solicitations. The various
student organizations such as the social and honorary fraternities
could put a drive of this nature way over the top.

Many students might question whether or not the funds
that we raise should be allocated to all groups in Charlotte, or to
just those organizations that held drives here last year. This
would include Red Cross. Cancer, Heart. and Polio. Although
the Foundation for Infantile Paralysis will not take part in the
Charlotte drive, they could be included in our drive if we chose
to support these four organizations only. Of course if we decided
to support the United Appeal. all the organizations would benefit.

You can see that there are several possibilities and it will
be up to the student body to decide. What we should all realize
is, that regardless of where we decide to place the money, it will
be for a worthwhile cause.

Let us hear your views on this subject. We want to formu-
late a plan soon and make this one of the most successful under-
takings of its kind ever completed at Davidson.

A Suggestion tor Improvement

In New Church Operation

For the past several Sundays we have noticed, and it
has been mentioned by others, that the acoustics seem to be bad
in the rear of the sanctuary of the new church. During the
service last Sunday evening it was difficult and sometimes im-
possible to understand what was being said from the front of
the sanctuary due to the coughing.

We understand that several phases of church operation are
still in the experimental stage. We refer to the overhead light-
ing and the lighting of the pulpit. Ic is hoped that this matter
of the acoustics will be investigated and the possibilities of a
speaker system discussed.

Might we also recommend that the visiting ministers
throughout the year be told of the necessity of speaking with
greater volume due to the size and construction of the sanctuary.

We hope that these suggestions will be taken constructive-
ly, for we all are very proud of our new church and want it
to be perfect in all respects.

This Is An Election Year;
I?’s Time We Began To Think

To live in an election year in the United States ig an
experience of profound singularity. It is a unique privilege on
our part to witness the democratic process and perhaps to take
a part ourselves. Whether we can vote or not, this year presents
a great opportunity for us to think about, discuss, and argue the
institutions and the character of our government.

Probably never before has the American electorate been
offered a choice between men of such quality and standards. Each
is peculiarly equipped to face the situation of today. Both men
are moderates: both have reached the same general conclusions
on the issues. While their respective experiences have been in
somewhat different fields, both have given their lives to govern-
ment service. In a sense also both are new to politics and repre-
sent a break with the past. A good decision, then, will all the
more demand thought.

Thus we run in circles when we attempt to pit only the
gualifications of the two personalities against each other. We
can make valid judgments only if we include in our analyses
the parties behind the men and the needs of the country today.
Again, to argue for change alone is irrevelant, just as to argue for
continuation of the present administration is irrevelant. A good
decision on the voter's part will depend a lot also on an ideal
such as free enterprise or security for the common man.

But we must not be blinded by the emotional appeal of

the ideal. Ie would be just as contrary to our political system

to ignore practical facts as to ignore the privilege of voting. For

this reason it is as much the Southerner’s duty to remember that
(Continued On Page Four)

Hon. Frank E. Hanshaw, Jr.,
Esquire

Editor, The Davidsonian
Dear Sir:

This being the beginning of a
new school year, and thereforé a
time when we all should be shining
up our morals, ideals and inherent
respect for our beloved Monastery,
I feel somewhat recalcitrant about
broaching a subject which un-
doubtedly has slurred the dignified
and reverent atmosphere of our
placid little curriculum. In times
past, no single function has served
to inspire the Davidson gentlemen
to the heights of courage and pa-
triolisnt as this ofie has; no event
has bestirred the men to:such emo-
tional peaks where they felt the
impossible could be accomplished
with alarcity and dexterity. Now,
and IT say this with genuine sor-

row and misgivings, some male-

factors have besmirched the sacred-
ness of this institution by heaping
ridicule upon it. This flagrant mis-
behavior was visited upon a state-
ly procession which emanated from
the—and it is only fitting that we
stand and bow our heads for a
silent tribute to that hallowed shrine
behind West—the ROTC building.
It was not. a fitting farewell for
those students who, putting service
above sel, were patriotically going
out for a gruelling two-hour pre-
cision drill, and whose hearts were
set upon achieving that unhoped-for
ideal, “complete and utter perfec-
tion.” Their highest ambition was
to win a merit, a real, live merit.

Pompey and Caesar went forth
from Rome to great conquests, ral-
tied and heartened by rousing cho-
rales of the Delphic Oracles. Rich-

The Tragedy At Johnson Gym:
A ROTC Regimental Waterloo

ard the Lion-hearted began his
Crusade to Holy Land with the
strains of the English national an-
them, “God Save the King. Queen,
Jack, 10, 9,” etc., still thundering in
his ears, In the Civil War, the Re-
bels leaned heavily on “Dixie” for
support. And during the First
World War, the French. often
stormed the conquered towns in
search of “The Mademoiselle from
Armentiers.

But T shudder to think of what
those noble ROTC cadets—those
stalwart pinnacles of military man-
lhood, those coupageous defenders
of the faith—of what they must
have ‘felt when confrorited by such
an unpracticed, plebian group of
performers who gathered behind the
Gym. As the Corps stepped out
smartly, nattily attired in their tan
uniforms and with matched white
bucks and blue suede shoes, one
could not help but feel it was an
injustice on the part of those mis-
guided souls, who had not had the
privilege of being invited into the
ranks, to vent their jealously upon
the Cadre by such a vulgar display
of insubordination and lack of re-
spect for the sacred spirit of the

Regiment. Many eyes were wet with,

tears over such humiliation. Others
flickered with a deep and well-
founded indignation. Alas, the
shame of it all!

So now I leave this problem in

‘your hands, Mr. Editor. As tycoon

of the mighty and powerful weekly
(or weakly) called the Davidsonian,
I implore you to do all in your
power to right this flagrant mis-
carriage of justice, and once again
restore the ROTC Corps to its
position of respect, dignity and af-

CAT POLL

Are you in favor of the policy by which we return to
school from the Christmas holidays on the Ist of January
in time for classes on the 2nd?

YES
NO

Comments:

1.5%

Moose Lazenby: ‘I'd like to spend New Year's day with

the folks.

Stuart Plummer: “I think it’s regrettable that school starts
on the 2nd rather than the third, as in the past, causing
some guys to miss New Years at home.”

Dick Perkins: “‘Ie’s a gross infraction of student preroga-
tive wholly incompatible with our civilized views. It
doesn’t matter to me because I won't be doing it.”

Harry Hicky: ‘No comment!"

Jim Wilson: “I would prefer to return on the 2nd because
by necessity I must have my hawg jowls and black-
eyed peas which, as everyone knows, is a requirement
for success in the following year.’’

Bill Flynt: “I personally like to sleep late on New Years

day out of necessity.”

fection, which it enjoyed in bygone
days. It is a case of insulted in-
tegrity which cannot be brushed
aside. We all shall await your first
move with bated breath.

rather crucial testing point.

To be pariotic today doesn’t
mean one sanctions creeping
socialism or Truman or even
Ike. To honor the American
flag today is to signify one's
presence in the ranks of those
who prefer to think for them-
selves.

Yours in the service of the Cause,
RONALD S. WELSON.

Tr’s raLt—and that means back to school again’

bringing them down to earth.

Hold fast to those dreams, young man. Stay South and see
them come true! For right here at home, in the Southland you

We feel perhaps making light of
the raising of our flag is not set-
ting the best example for men who

Perhaps this is your last year—so you'll bear down on the
books a little more. You'll look ahead as you haven't before—
pulling your dreams for the future out of the clouds and

FRIDAY. OCTOBER 3, 1952

By JOHN OTTLEY

have not yet gained the so-called

maturity of those who teach us and

conduct our business enterprises.
s @ 8

Now that fraternity rushing is out
of the picture what of it? In the
first place we give a hand to the
IFC for the most workable sys-
tem which has been devised in at
least four years.

A double process of elimination
is achieved by allowing the rushees
to decide for themselves which fra-
ternities they will honor with re-
dates. This, obviously, takes some
of the strain off the fraternity
members of those groups which are
not so honored.

We notice several discrepancies
in the method by which a_boy’s
name is brought up in consideration
for a bid. There is a complex con-
flict between ijl-considered ideal-
ism and somewhat unprincipled pig-
headedness.

In the first case many men
will stand up for a boy of
whom they have absolutely no
knowledge. They will stand up
because in the back of their
heads they have the notion
that no man should be called
guilty until so proved. ‘
That’s fine in court, but in court

there is only one defendant. The
average fraternity here entertains
over 100 men in three days for
an hour each night. You simply
can't know them all.

Secondly many men will stand
up to denounce a man of whom
they have cqually as little knowl-
edge. Love or dislike at first sight
may be fine in the comics, but per-
sonalities are being dealt with at
this juncture,

The result of these two ex-
tremes is that some ten or less
phrases are repeated about va- _
rious men unto the point of

i..2w and live in and love, a great new “opportunity-land” is
coming of age, where dreams can take root and grow into

reality.

In Southern industry, agriculeure and commerce, new
frontiers are opening up on every hand. Here, horizons are
limitless for young men of courage, competence and vision.
You are the youth of the South today. You will be the leaders

of the South romorrow.
Look ahead—stay South, young man!

Mey «we

Stay SOUTH,

Disrespect Evident As Old
Glory Raised At Recent Games

nausea. The words “good boy,’

“asset to the chapter,” “frater-

nity material” are by now so

familiar to us that we wince.

They mean nothing whatsoever
since they are applied in varyin,:
strengths both by the man who
says them and the man who hears
them.

We recommend no panacea. We
would like only to see in the fu-
ture a little more thought put into
the recommendations or fault-find-
ing made at the critical discussions
of the rushees.

What usually happens is that
men listening estimate the
speaker's knowledge of human
nature and vote on that rather
than what they have heard of
the rushee himself. We ask that
the members be given a bit
more to go on than merely this
estimate.

Might it not be wise to compile
a list of those grossly over used
descriptions and forbid a man to
speak next year if he cannot say
more than “We can’t go wrong
with this boy?”

This is not a move to scout re-
cruits for the Forensic Council, but
only to approach the voting on a
man from a more intelligent angle.

Looking at another angle of rush
week and bidding, we strongly
question the practice of giving auto-
matic bids to so-called legacies. A
cry goes up: “It’s the least we can
do for old Ignatz’ boy.” Sure it’s
the least which can be done for the
boy.

If, however, we put. ourselves in
Ignatz’ shoes and ask ourselves
whether we would want our son to
get a bid only on the strength of
our name, perhaps we would answer
in the negative. The name is fine
for candidates to the DAR, but is
it quite right here at Davidson?

a

Sz

SOUTHERN RAILWAY SYSTEM

WASHINGTON, D. C.

