PAGE TWO

Fraternities In Danger?

Rush week is over, its memories are rapidly slipping
into the background, and in many respects it was just like
all the other rush weeks that the present generation of Da-
vidson students have known.

There is a difference this year in regard to the pledge
period, however, that everyone who has had his eyes and
ears open this year fully realizes. That is, of course, the fact
that with the entire freshman class taking all their meals in
the College Union, the new pledges will be thrown with their
respective brothers less often than in the years preceding.

Due to the very nature of the fraternity system at David-
son this means, that for the time being, at least, the new mem-
bers will be somewhat slower in becoming a part of their
fraternities. For though fraternity men do not always like to
admit it, the greater part of fraternity life here on campus
revolves about the boarding houses, where three times a day
the brothers get together for fellowship as well as food.

Last week in this column we took the position that though
fraternities would be at a definite disadvantage in integrating
their new members into their midst, this need not constitute
a disaster of major proportions. We still believe this.

Nevertheless, during the first semester, there could arise
a very definite threat to fraternities individually and to the
fraternity system as a whole.

Almost every year pledges are broken, but these in-
stances are scattered and many times work out for the best.
This year, however, with the link between fraternity and the
pledge necessarily weaker than in the past there is the possi-
bility of a tremendous increase in the number of men who
will pick up and leave one fraternity to join another.

Though this sort of thing might lead to the temporary
advantage of one group over another, it is easy to see
what the result would be for fraternities as a whole should
it become the practice for the various groups to practice
piracy on each other’s pledge classes.

Perhaps the threat of such a thing seems remote today, for
certainly we do not believe that any fraternity would sanction
or condone such a policy. But this sort of thing could easily
start with individuals and continue until the fraternities
themselves would be swept into the stream of events, if for
no other reason than self-defense.

It would follow therefore that it is the duty of each in-
dividual, as well as of each fraternity, to see that such a
thing does not begin. If it did, the tendency would be for it
to snowball. '

In the long run, no one would profit, and the fraternity
system as we know it here at Davidson, with rivalry on a
relatively friendly basis, would most assuredly be
wrecked.

The Venerable Court

In the years past the Court of Control has sometimes
been a source of something approaching terror to the greener
freshman, and occasionally the instrument of practical jokes
for the upperclassmen.

But through the passage of time, the Court, as it is more
commonly referred to, has become a very real part of David-
son and what the more eloquent might call the Davidson
heritage. The Court has been much discussed, and quite a
few times voices have been heard crying in the wilderness
for its abolition.

Just in the past few years, however, it has become ap-
parent that the court is here to stay, and that it can function
as something considerably more than a kangaroo court whose
sole purpose is to subject any and all members of the fresh-
man class to various forms of persecution.

Whatever the court may do, one thing is fairly certain,
and that is that it plays: more than a token part in instilling
in the new student what might best be called the “Davidson
Attitude.”

At many institutions there is a minimum of pressure on
the new student to conform to established patterns of be-
haviour. On this campus, however, the pressure toward a cer-
tain amount of conformity is greater than many realize.

Undoubtedly a large number of boys just coming to
Davidson, because of thei! background, seem to fit into cam-
pus life with very little difficulty. In some cases, however, a
change is judged to be in order.

Now, one may debate the merits of a campus where the
individual is under a certain amount of social pressure to
conform to a standard based largely on. tradition. But one
cannot debate the important part the court and the threat
of the court plays in shaping the boy to fit the college.

The blatant braggart and the “high school Harry” are
the most frequent visitors to the court where they are re-
oriented so that they may see themselves in the proper pros-
pective. The freshman who starts out on the wrong foot is
shown the path he must tread to get along best at Davidson.

It is doubtful whether the court plays a vital part in
shaping character, but it, together with other forces, has re-
peatedly inculcated in the freshmen that have paraded be-

(Continued On Page Four)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Several days ago in Chambers
Auditorium the student body spon-
taneously applauded a very sterl-
ing performance of the prelude by
the chapel organist, and thereby
set off the sparks of what has in
the past week grown into a campus-
wide controversy on the subject
of chapel conduct.

Many members of the faculty,
and particularly the faculty com-
mittee on chapel, have become in-
creasingly concerned about the
lack of reverence at these daily
exercises, and several are definite-
ly said to be in favor of strict dis-
ciplinary action if the student
body does not improve in its con-
duct.

Extreme Measures Rumored

Some professors are rumored to
be in such a state of consterna-
tion that they would actually ad-
vocate such extreme measures as
having monitors report students
guilty of bad behavior in chapel
to the Dean of Students, who would
be required to punish those stu-
dents; rumor even has it that one
professor would actually be in
favor of abolishing the IFC dances
if behavior doesn't improve.

It seems to me that the profes-
sors who are so concerned are try-
ing—if 1 may be excused from
using an old, but fit analogy—to
clamp a lid on a boiling pot which
has been at least simmering for 9
long time. I wonder if it has ever
occurred to the college authorities
that the trouble might lie at the
base of one of Davidson's oldest
institutions?

Conduct Net At Lowest Ebb

Students have been going to
chapel at Davidson for a long time
—hbecauge they have always been
required to go to chapel. I cannot
speak with authority as to the be-
havior of students at  cliapel
farther back than the past decade,
but I do not believe that it has
during the last ten years been any
better than it is at the present
time. On the contrary, during the
post World War II years when the
Veterans virtually ruled the cam-
pus, chapel conduct was reputedly
notorius.

Although I do not condone such
irreverent displays as the prelude

on Saturday, the lowest form of
animal life on the Davidson cam-
pus attains the status of a visiting
dignitary who is to be favorably

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE impressed. One of the things that

: COLLEGE YEAR immediately strikes the freshman

CHIEF Moody is the varlety of ways, and varied

arb ti MANAGER Charles siasty approsches used by the fraternities
ASSOCIATE EDITORS Jima Moore, Dick Roper [|' sccomplish their end. All

‘Assistant Editors __. Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, || ™ethods of influencing the rushee

have the definite purpose of show-

Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader
Managing Editors Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney ae him the fraternity in a favora-
Sports Editor John Handley je light. To form a preference,
and to mske a choice, provided

News Editor — Austin Strand Feature Editor — T. A. Willlams there is one, the freat must

an nthe gues. Price Face ariskerhotf dy Simons Il try to see the true faults as well.
Asst. Business Manager ¥£4 Nicholson Several methods present them.
Advertising Manager Tommy Taylor §j **!ves varying degrees 0!
Cireulation Manager Dick Little | merit. Bull sessions are a source
Collections Manager Tommy Douglas {| °! informe Rica, bet often unde

pendabdie. a e
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, [| fraternities may indirectly indicate

N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1807.
udiced. It is during Rush Week

TH

By DICK ROPER

E DAVIDSONIAN

Faculty Attacks Chapel Problem
From The Wrong Direction

applause, or any of the other ex- authorities really want to resort to
hibitions of that type, I do be-/such extreme and prep schoolish

lieve that when students are com-
pelled to attend worship services
auch outbursts must be at least
periodically expected. When a per-
son is compelled to do something
—even something which he might
not ordinarily dislike—he can
hardly be expected to enter into
the spirit of the act wholehearted-
ly. That characteristic of human
nature is, I beileve, the one which
college authorities have either
failed or refused to recognize. Jf
the college desires to require stu-
dent attendance at chapel, they
can certainly do so; but I do not
see that compulsion of this nature
can hope to obtain any better re-
sults than have been exhibited to
the present time.

Another Bed Effect .

What is an even worse effect of
compelling students to attend
chapel, as far as I am concerned,
is that the frequent ill behavior
of the student body often spoils
the effect of these daily exercises
for those students who do go in
a spirit of reverence, and regard
chapel as a profound religious ex-
perience.

Upon hearing these arguments,
the dyed-in-the-wool Davidsonian
will immediately counter with the
assertion that no one is making
any student attend Davidson.
“Why,” they will ask, “don’t you
leave if you don’t like what you’re
required to do?”

That, to me, is much like the
question put facetiously to the Da-
vidson professor who didn’t be-
lleve traffic lights were necessary
in a civilized society, and engaged
in a lengthy tirade on how per-
sonally obnoxious they were to
him. “Well, professor,” said the
student with tongue in cheek,
“why don't you leave the country?”
Quite obviously, the advantages
both of going to Davidson and
living in the United States out-
weigh the single disadvanteges in-
volved—but that should not take
away a person’s right to criticize
and find fault if he so desires.

Extreme Measures Possible
if the faculty and other college

Freshmen Views Rush Week

From the end of Orientation} itself, in actual contact with the
Week until the pledging period] brothers, that much can be dis-

cerned. One particular thing that
I looked for, that some may not
have considered, is the way in
which rushees which are, in some
way, not considered material for
a certain fraternity are treated.
This seems to be a good indies

3] tion of whether or not the brothers

are true gentlemen. I was im-

with the handling of this
delicate problem in almost every
instance. The general atmosphere
of the houses, their various accom-
plishments in fields of sports, lead-
ership, and studies, and who elee
is planning to join are of course of
paramount consideration also. I
think that on the whole everyone
here at
brothers and rushees alike, real-

methods of obtaining good be-
havior in chapel as mentioned
above, they can and certainly will.
I do not believe Davidson, which
is a Mberal college in most re-
spects, will ever come to that.
It is altogether possible that
someone may come up with a solu-
tion to the problem, but as it looks
from here the college has only
two reasonable and sensible alter-
natives: Either tolerate present
chapel conduct, or else abolish com-

OFF-MOORINGS:

s, (Stud Antiquated But
%.8 [Bookstore Outdated,

By JIM MOORE

As beautiful as the modified | what you may express this year in

Georgian architecture of its de-
sign will allow, as expensive as
the college dared let it be, and as
cleverly appointed to be as super-
ficially restful as one could hope,
still the College Union. has its
shortcomings.

Eleven o'clock aching bones are
beginning to wish, after less than
two weeks of the new snack bar
that .the old broken down stud
was back. Doug’s place at least
called a sandwich a sandwich and
didn’t begin slipping hihts and
blinking lights two hours before
quitting time.

An incident will serve to show
the attitude and the poorly ac-
climated actions of those who at-
tempt to serve student cuisinal re-
quests at the snack bar.

A student began at 11:15 one
night this past week to get served
at the snack bar. At 11:23 the
woman behind the counter took his
order which was for a sandwich
and milk. At 11:28 he was asked
again what he wanted and on re-
ordering was told that the grill
would be closed in two minutes
and didn’t have time enough to
fill his orders.

Sure enough by the time he had
gotten through haggling over the
sandwich and asking for the milk
again, it was time to close and he
didn't even get his cow nectar.

Admittedly the old stud had
limited food facilities, and service
entailed only the dispensing of
packaged articles. This made the
waiting jobs much simpler, even
though the snack bar and student
store were combined into one en-
terprise. The doors stayed open
till midnight, and students actually
got what they wanted until that
time.

Perhaps the new establishment
is too intricate to maintain serv-
ice past 10:00, in which case we
suggest someone put rollers on

pulsory chapel, and have services| the Union and the Broken Anchor

only for those who want to worship
daily.

Of course, as said above, the
college certainly has the authori-
ty to make chapel a strictly regi-
mented part of the curriculum.
®ut I do not believe that I am
alone in maintaining that that
would be attacking the problem in
the wrong direction.

The Editor’s Mailbox:

Podunk U. 49

Three years ago the present
seniors walked onto the campus of
Davidson with all intentions of
living a full and complete college
life. Certainly we have no qualms
about academic standards, and it
is not the purpose of this article
to discuss that or other relative
aspects of college activity. How-
ever, we walked knowingly or un-
knowingly into a farsical athletic
nonentity. If we are to construc-
tively criticize our athletic policies
here, which one cannot favorably
do in the light of cold facts and
figures, to whom is the blame to
be attributed?

At the very outset of such a dis-
cussion it is to be clearly under-
stood that we are attacking no
individual, nor are we in any way
blaming our athletic teams, which
have performed admirably and
courageously under such depress-
ing conditions. Yet, the facts are
there and the truth is that losing
teams for three consecutive years
in all major sports whether we
wish to admit it or not have an
undesirable effect on the spirit and
attitude of the entire student
body. We say this with no “tongue
in cheek” attitude; but, of course,
the importance of this problem is
relative to the stress the reader
places on athletics in a well-
rounded college life. No one,
faculty or student, who has been
here for the past three years will
deny the fact that the Davidson
spirit is at its lowest ebb since we
have been on this campus.

The full extent of this situation
is intangible, yet several results
are clearly evidenced by:

1. The effects are detrimental
to the team members in that they
develop a defeatist attitude. This
happens not only at Davidson, but
at any school where they are con-
sistent losers.

2. The effects are detrimental
to the student because he misses
something that we consider a vital

Davidson, fraternity | Part in student life. This culmi-

nates into a passive resistance
which could very well be carried

izes the import of the decision, | ayer into later life.
and makes an earnest effort to see] 9. The effects are detrimental

that it is the right one.

to the general reputation of the

and have them switch locations.

The Davidson student, we are
told, should consider it a privil-
ege to have such fine facilities for
pleasure, but to put those facilities
in motion sometimes requires the
patience of Job or the exaspera-
tion of Tantalus.

The Vear Ahead
By way of explanation as to

- Davidson 0

school. No one can say that Bobby
Dodd’s statement, “Davidson of-
fered us no competition,” in any
way throws a favorable light upon
the reputation of the school. We
do not necessarily justify the
position which athletics now have
in the national college curriculum;
however, the trend is inevitable.
We acquisce to those who argue
with such ardent conviction that
the trend is wrong. Yet, our answer
is simply this—which is the worse
of two evils, following the trends
or accepting the detriments which
we have listed here.

If we are to follow the trend,
which we believe is the only logi-
cal thing to do, what, then might
be the solutions? Undoubtedly,
this is not a problem which can
be solved overnight, but one
which must be attacked through
a long range plan. Several al-
ternatives present themselves:

1. A complete broadening of our
athletic program. This, of course,
would include further subsidiza-
tion, consisting chiefly of a great-
er number of more tempting
scholarships in all three of the
major sports.

2. Concentration of ‘effort and
our existing finances into one
major sport. Here at Davidson the
problem of concentration involves
only two possibilities—basketball
or baseball. Of these two, basket-
ball appears the most likely in
that its operations is less costly,
as well as the fact that it is both
locally and nationally more prom-
inent.

If neither of these solutions is
acceptable, the only choice left is
that we drop to a lower level of
competition. This, of course, would
mean less attractive schedules
both to the student and the general
public, but remains the only choice
if the present athletic policy is to
be continued.

Let us reiterate that we are in
no way slamming the 1063-54 ath-
letic teams of this college. We
have every hope and confidence
that they will perform to the ut-
most of their ability in the various
sports, and no student will be a
more zealous supporter of these

this corner of the editorial page,
we'll brief you on what is planned.

No “Friendly Philosopher” or
“Free Lance” here, only the most
honest appraisal of the Davidson
scene as this writer considers him-
self capable will you see. You
may naturally expect some rant-
ing and raving as would be ex-
pected of the most calm semi-
idealistic Davideenisn journalist.
As well you may see more ex-
perimentation in broader fields of
the journalistic arts than has been
hitherto found on these pages.

Any Old Books?

The news that Davidson students
now have one-third of their num-
ber earning their education
through scholarships places us in
a@ percentage-wise class with the
English University of Oxford in
this field.

As the Alumni News of last year

was eager to point out, the rising| may

costs of living since the war have
not been match by an equal rise
in the cost of Davidson’s educa-
tion. Any college students of but
a few years, however, will tell you
that the costs of going to college
have been increasing and that not
one of the least of these increasing
costs is that of books.

With changes in texts from year
to year, and the frequent necessity

of having for a course more than

one book, the prospects are slight
for any huge reduction in the costs
of buying textbooks.

The large number of courses
that have books that do not change
so frequently and the inadequate
system of selling old books now
found on the campus provide an
almost astonishing number of
books that are literally going to
waste.

There is an available and ready
supply of used books here that if
arrangements could be made for
sale from year to year, departing
seniors as well as returning stu-
dents could realize some gain
from texts which all too frequent-
ly will be destined to end in many
an undusted box in a grad’s attic.

It would seem that the Davidson
Book Store had a snobbish atti-
tude toward the students’ prob-
lems with books, for there is not
even so much as a return privil-
ege allowed on any book once it
has been paid for.

Further, when the situation of
book rentals, buying and selling
is regarded in other schools and

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1908

Quicker;
Wasteful

compared to our antiquated
methods, the obvious illogicality
(and financial loss) of the situa-
tion blatantly presents itself.

Chapel Hilt has a book store,
naturally larger than ours, but
which has the unique system of
allowing students to sell books
back to it once they have been
used. The constant turnover is not
only efficient but also it’s profita-
bie,

One might ask why our Book
Store does not deal in used books.
Too much trouble? Would it re-
quire so-many more paid helpers
as to be unprofitable? Perhaps al)
this is true.

The Book Store does seem to be
determined, as certainly indicated
by past policy, to remain aloof to -
students’ needs in this ares, and
little help as far as rectifying the

lem? The plan set in motion last
spring by the now defunct Alpha
Phi Omega, Boy Scout fraternity,
seemed to work well as long as

is no more and so is near-efficient
old book selling.

With some improvements and
greater student participation, an
equitable system could be worked
out which could save many a stu-
dent money and provide the spon-
sor with a small

Last year’s plan
leave at the end

itself to student appreciation.
The missing link now is the
sponsoring organization—Student
Council, ODK, D Cluh, or some
other service organization on cam-

pus.

Barring these possibilities for
someone to do the necessary work,
the student store might well or.
ganize the entire used book busi-
ness on the campus and even make
some profit at it.

Carolina annually makes thou-
sands of dollars on its book store,
and uses the money to establish
and maintain student scholarships.
Is it not time we caught up with
the collegiate world in an area
where student leadership will bene-
fit students’ welfare?

A Carnation For Genius

By R. &.

HAYES

As I came out of the apartment Chopin and know his peer lies here

and quietly closed the door be-
hind me, the morning struck me
as only a morning in Paris in early
summer can. And when I walked
onto the Champs de Mars and the
trees opened up to the sky I knew
that this was the kind of day all
who know Paris grow to love.
Stopping and sitting in one of the
rickety chairs, I thought simply—
if he were here again to walk
under the Tower towards Tro-
cadero would the smallest child
know that under his massive im-
pression lay a heart as pure as
the Paris snow he loved so well.

Moving slowly towards the
Ecole Militaire many thoughts of
his life passed through my mind,
along with a wonder at what I
would find that could show me a
little of this man, once despised
but now by many revered. All
these thoughts and many more
surged through my consciousness
as I descended into the Metro at
LaMotte-Picquet-Grenelle.

dubodubondubonnetdubodubon-
dubonnetdubo—NEARER and near-
er—I wondered but then remem-
bered his cognac and the Hotel
d’Alsace where he looked out up-
on a courtyard that had become
almost his only refuge during the
scant few months of life remain-
ing to him—And I wondered at
man’s inhumanity to man. “For
no one will listen to me now — —”

Pere Lachaise. Lourdes holds
nothing for me; for there is much
for me here — — — but most of
all, one.

The watchman knew well the
directions I asked: by Rothchild,
Heloise and Abelard, Chopin and
Bernhardt. Though I kneel before

teams. But—es evidenced by three
losing years here at Davidson, we
do not see how a su ath.
letie program can be carried out
under the present depressing -con-

ditions.
LARRY 8. CHAMPION
DON D. REID

—my pilgrimage has not ended.
My piligrimage? His very life
was a pilgrimage—perhapes the
longest a man of pure heart
ever taken, for I knew well
no Christian fought longer and
harder than he, no man hed at-
tempted to climb Parnassus as
alone as he — — —

It is a simple monument,

lifetime, there could be no appeal.”

As the watchman rang the cur
few, I wept, for I too saw the shal-
lowness of man as I lay a carnation
at the foot of genius.

See
Cam Cridlebengh

114 West

