FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1953

“énut von ime [Director Smith Announces Display;
nine we sat ers (Union Swings Into Busy Schedule

im ive 4 i
hot reese ne Kappe. ver the Shaw Smith, director of the Stu- | Smith also urged groups who
Erwin turned in 10 points to take|4ent Union, announced today that| wish to book the facilities and
high scoring honors for the Pij@ Union Gallery Committee has} the ballroom of the Union to
‘Kapps. been appointed to be ‘in charge of| see nie in order to
. arranging the art display board on] avoid conflicts.
mm Campus Club 26 the main floor of the union build-| Lockers on the second floor of
e Fikas remained undefeated |i... the building are now available to
44 they o uiplay: ed the Campus Club] “Members of the committee are:|honorary fraternities upon request.
to resort to a last half, ny as had Don Mahy, Bob Crutctifield, Court=| Interested groups should see Mr.
th f th rally to pw ney Hill, Vance Mizelle and Prof.|Smith immediately. Keys will be
e game out of the fire. John! pit Moose, faculty adviser. issued on the first come, first served
Handley set the pace for the Pikas, The displays will include all | basis. ‘
while Skipper Hall was high for! types of art work, charcoals, | Mr. Smith said “The Union has
the losing quintet with 15 points.) ou, and photography. It is [no suggestion box, but I am
ATOs 35; Phi Delts 33 hoped that a new display will [anxious for the boys with sugges-
be arranged each week. tions that would make the Union
Prof. Moose commented: “I be-] more serviceable, useful and en-
lieve we can make this display an{joyable to come by and talk to
interesting thing for the boys.” Ime.”

CHURCH SUPPER:
COME ONE AND ALL

There will be a chicken and
dumplin supper Saturday night be-
ginning at 5S p.m. at the Calvary
Presbyterian Church.

The supper is sponsored by the
church to raise money for a build-
ing program. Plates will be $1.00.
All students and faculty are in-
vited. (The church is located one
block beyond the railroad on Depot
Street.) .

JACKSON

Cleaners
CLEARING

EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WILSON SPEAKS... GRAPPLERS MEET ...
(Continued trum Page One) (Continued ium Page Three)
the Nazi party, holding out the} Morrow and their weight divisions:
many problems in Germany after cave Jones oF pen yas: Ra

td War I, . un: te ye ; y
World War unemployment, un 137; Gene Craven, 147; John Bux-

paralleled inflation, and political 4 .
disunity, which facilitated this rise |t©™ 157; Bill Coe or Bill McEI-
isunity, which facilitated this rise veen, 167; Nabby” Armfield, 177;

to power. eanen :
In 1933 when Hitler came into] 4d Monty Littlejohn, heavyweight.

power he began a drastic and tem-
porarily successful reconditioning |SLUMPING CATS...
of Germany. But along with these] (Continued from Page Three)
reforms he sowed the seeds of his|tanky captain Joe Dudley and guard
own destruction. Church groups] Jerry King. In dropping to Caro-
were dissolved, and a Gestapo was] tina last Tuesday by 71-60, the
installed, the necessity for which|Cats were sparked by Dudley with
revealed the beginning of a re-}20 and King with 18, Buddy Brown
sistance movement. For a while,Jalso turned in a fine performance
however, this resistance was unor-| for the Cats as he connected for 11.
ganized and raat The Red and Black quint has now
Prof. Wilson destribed fascinat-| suffered five setbacks in their Jast
ingly several attempts to assassi-| five starts. However, in most of
nate Hitler. He was in Germany | these games they've been pitted
at the time of the great attempt ot | against the best teams in the league
July, 1944, and knew personally the| plus one strong non-conference op-
would-be assassin of a former at-] ponent, Tennessee. As the season
tempt. nears the half-way mark the Cats
After a summary, Prof. Wilson | hold a 2-6 record.
and Johannes Miedema answered
questions from a European stand-| GREEK WEEK...
point as they were proposed by the (Continued From Page One)
BrP ees a merbene thine per to the house of the fraternity
new members, Roy Davis, Mickey with whom they cat.
C \ M in M Gi Wednesday afternoon each
annon, and Martin McGirt, were ledge class will k ae
present. pledge class will work on an in
dividual project of community
interest and value, thus en-
SPANISH SOCIETY one abling each group to demon-
(Continued From Page One) strate its individual abiltiy and
vanced courses are bid to Sigma] '™Senuity.
Delta Pi. Exchange suppers will again be
The two organizations viewed [held and following the meals there
colored movies of Spain and will be discussion groups held in
Mexico at their joint meeting | several of the fraternity lodges for
in December. The films were {all who are interested, both brothers
made and shown by Charlotte's | and pledges, on such topics as rush-
fecreational director, Dr. Hal. jing, alumni relations, and scholar-
berstadt, who has traveled [ship.

PAGE FOUR

JAMES HYUN ?..
1 53 | LY | a end ar (Continued From Page One)
on his homeland battlefront and

is thankful for his Davidson oppor-

e
tunity, but still he’s a bit disap-
Cleasead DY VOMMITICE-::..

T think the Korean expects us
The student members of the Faculty Student Committee] '° be @ country full of Gene Kelleys
met before the holidays with the Faculty Committee on the|@% Errol Flynns, for the only
College Calendar to discuss the 1953-1954 schedule. The purpose | ‘ste of America James and his
of the meeting was to try to prevent any conflicts in the sched-| friends in Seoul got prior to his
ule as far as possible during the next school year. The below ['t!P here was through the American

calendar, when approved by the faculty, will be adopted. movies. . .
It should be noted that the same holiday vacations were], Most of them were musicals with
maintained. The longer Christmas vacation, which includes three | Korean subtitles. You oo iife after
weekends, was made possible by shortening each exam period by | is, opinion of college Pa © Wap
one day. If congestion arises in the schedule, students will be per- | S°°'"S She's Working Her Way
mitted to switch sections if the professor has two sections. And, | !htoush College.” or of the Amer
if three exams come in a row, students will also be allowed to can pusingssman after seeing “Lost
switch as is now the policy. Instead he found us. Of course

May 29—Friday: Meeting of the Trustees. we aren’t as bad as the movie
May 30—Saturday: Alumni Day. heroes, but still he’s a little con.
May 31—Sunday: 11 a.m., Baccalaureate Sermon. cerned about our morals and may
June 1—Monday: Commencement. occasionally make a joking remark
June 5-6—Friday and Saturday: Re-examination. about his roommates = running
June 4—Thursday: Classes begin for 8-hour and 4-hour lab courses. | around. .

June. 10—Wednesday: Classes begin for all other courses. He was shocked to see girls
July 3-4—Friday and Saturday: A_ holiday. smoke, but James is far from bit-
July 22—Wednesday: End of first term. ter... who can really blame him
July 23—Thursday: Classes begin for all courses for being somewhat resentful or
Aug. 28—Friday: End of second term. jealous when he compares our

FIRST SEMESTER 1953-1954 plush surroundings to his home-

land.
Sept. 11-15—Friday through Tuesday: Orientation period. Attend- Then in the same breath James
dance required of all freshman and entering transfers, wilt gladly tell you how friendly
Sept. 14.15—-Monday and Tuesday: Re-examination. everyone ts to him here and that
Sept. 14~—Monday: First faculty meeting; registration of sophomores, | We're not nearly as tough as he
2 p.m. thought we would be, judging from
Sept. 15—Tuesday: Registration of juniors and seniors. the American GIs he met.
Sept.16——-Wednesday: Classes begin. This same frank opinion holds
Oct. 19-31—Monday-Saturday: Review period. ‘for our basketball and football.
Oct. 17—Saturday: Homecoming, a holiday. Football game, Pres. {“Basketball is foolish, and foot-
.byterian College. ball takes too much time decid-
Nov. 16-25—Monday-Saturday: Review period. ing what to do, but I like it when
Nov. 25—-Wednesday 4:40 p.m.: Thanksgiving recess begins. all of a sudden everybody runs off
Nov. 30—Monday, 8:20 a.m.: Thanksgiving recess ends. the field and others run back on
Dec. 18—Friday, 4:40 p.m.: Christmas recess begins.

Aggressiveness, sharp shooting,
and team spirit were the main fac-
tors contributing to the ATO’s 35
to 33 upset victory over the Phi
Delts. Linny Baker was the big
gun for the ATOs, collecting 17|KAs, while Lindley Beardsley took
points while Ted Oldenburg led|high-point honors for the night in
the previously undefeated Philscoring 14 for the losers.

Delts with 13 points. Sigma Chis 55; Phi Gams 40

SAEs 37; Phi Gams 31 ° tts Sigma Chis used 12 men as
The Phi Gams bowed in defeat|they rolled to an easy 55-40 win
to the powerful SAE five, 37 tofover the Phi Gams. Tom Shaw and
31, Larry Champion took scoring|Frank Smith provided the Sigs’
honors for the game, garnering 16{S¢coring punch as they collected 18
points for the Phi Gam cause. [and 12 markers, respectively. An-
. : other combination, Larry Champion
_  KAs 45; Pikas 35 with 15 and Joe Sugg with 13 led
Using their height Re good ad-lthe Phi Gams.
vantage the powerful KAs rolled to . .
a 45-35 decision over the Pikas. Paieel 5; Campos Club 24
George King was high for th réeshman orward Tom Darst
._|led his SAEs to a $9-24 swamp of
the Campus Club as he hit for 21
DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD .. points. The SAEs grabbed the lead
(Continued From Page Two) [early and were never headed. Bob-
where the chariot races were run;|by Renn was high for the losers
Hadrian's tomb; the Forums; the[as he collected 9 tallies,
Catacombs and many other sights.
One of the best views of the city

in their places, The boys tell me
what you want to do is push the

tae 20 -Wolwcedays Mokiganr connivations bea ball over the end lines, but as soon| Widely and who is leaving soon The culmination of Greek b from the d 4
Jan. 28—Thursday: Mid-year examinations. end. as you do they bring it back to for another around-the-world Week will come on Thursday St. P ‘ Thi nag if onthe D rink
; : the middle of the field again.” jaunt. Refreshments were served night when each pledge class oral ie th, , *s os a ren cate PRESSING
SECOND SEMESTER — 1953-1954 If James had been born 40 years at the end of the meeting. ; will present a five-minute skit w orl 1 ¢ largest church im the} r 4 =
Jan, 29—F ei : > he wouldn't ha . Student officers of the Spanish} in Chambers Auditorium. As the bus beri Lo, M SKILLFULLY DONE
an. tiday, 8:20 a.m.: Second semester begins. ago he wou ve any mat! club are: Bob Walker, president;| These skits were tecmed highly $ the bus begins to move again BY PRESSERS WITH
Feb. 17—Wednesday: Meeting of Board of Trustees. tiage problems, for up until that Jesse Fisher, first vice president; | successful last year, and are through the ‘customs gate, we a oO YEARS OF EXPERIENCE
rom our reminiscence o

time mates were picked out at
dirth. And it still isn’t uncommon
for a 10-year-old boy to marry a
20-year-old girl, On a Korean date
the couple usually go to a tea
room and sit for 4 hours. That's
what he said.

James likes Amertca. Maybe it’s

Larry Champion, second vice presi-| again expected to lend a fitting
‘dent, and Jenks Jervey, secretary.| climax to the festivities.
Following the skits, which will
SCABBARD & BLADE ... begin at 7:36 p.m., a social will be
(Continued From Page One) held in the Union, along with
Col. E. H. Davis will speak on| what is hoped to be some very
active duty orientation at the May {unusual and engaging _ entertain-

Feb. 22-Mar. 6—-Monday-Saturday: Review period
Mar. 17—Wednesday, 4:40 p.m.: Spring recess begins.

Mar. 19—Friday, 2:00 p.m.: Re-examination. °
Mar. 24—Wednesday, 8:30 a.m.: Spring recess ends.

Mar. 29-Apr. 10—Monday-Saturday: Review period.

May 20—Thursday: Second semester examination begins.

May 28—Friday: Second semester examinations end.

ALTERATIONS

THAT SATISFY

Italy, but now we are in France
and tonight we will be in Monte O

Carlo,
R’

vane; Individual Project—Tyler
Berry and Homer Sparks; Ex- ~ QUALITY MILK
change Suppers—Duke Fowler and

Gayle Averyt; Skits and Social— Mooresville

ONE-DAY SERVICE
AVALIABLE

May 29-31—Saturday-Monday: Commencement.
June 4-5—Friday and Saturday: Re-examinations. just that he realizes more than we | !2 meetings. ment for those who wish to attend.
- do how lucky we really are. —————= |, Committees appointed to handle] Joe Neisler and Larry Dagenhart; ~~
PATRONIZE OUR details of the week are: Combined |Discussions—Rodney Howell and Creamery, Inc. Frank L. Jackson, dr.

ADVERTISERS Project—Dick Liles and Max De-jJim Boulware.

D. C. DELEGATES... sity, and Midwestern University as
(Continued From Page One) punishment for violation of eligi-

ments designed to strengthen | bility rules. Kentucky had been
ite police powers. That is, its barred from all basketball compe-

power to enforce its rules and tition and declared ineligible to
evulati ffectivel . [compete in any NCAA events in
reaulations and effectively pun- | 1952/53 Bradley had been barred

from the NCAA basketball tour-

The power to punish schools vio- . ‘
lating NCAA rules was placed in| "© while Midwestern had gotten
off with a reprimand.

the hands of a seventeen-man coun-
cil composed of the organization’s| In other balloting the conference
top officers. This council will be|voted to continue to restrict post-
empowered to act when the na-|seas6n football and basketball prac-
tional conference is not in session. |tice, though these restrictions were

liberalized; and to. continue to limit

Formal approval was voted on
action previously taken against|the televising of college football

three member schools; the Univer- | games, the latter over the opposition
sity of Kentucky, Bradley Univer-|of several larger schools.

THEATRE

THURS.-FRI, JAN 15-16

One Minute To Zere

ROBERT MITCHUM
CHARLES McGRAW

e
“I smoked Chesterfield in college—I smoke ‘em now. Read
this ad and you'll know why I say... MUCH MILDER

CHESTERFIELD IS BEST FOR ME!”

NORTHWESTERN UNIV. ‘52

SATURDAY, JAN. 17
Brave Warrier

JON HALL
CHRISTINE LARSON

CAT TALES... (Continued from Page Three)

MON.-TUES., JAN. 19-20

Tropie Zone

RONALD REAGAN
RHONDA FLEMING

difference in close games.

The team has been fairly fortunate so far as to injuries.
There have been no knees dislocated so far. no wrists smashed
in bad falls on the hardwood. Ish Bennett has been the only
Joser to date, having Jost a tooth in the UNC game last Tuesday.

—_—

NOW. .. Scientific
‘ Evidence on Effects
of Smoking!

Anat SPECIALIST is making regular bi-
to monthly examinations of a group of people

. ular and m various walks of life. 45 percent of this
Cigarette in Both Reg group have smoked Chesterfield for an average

WEDNESDAY, JAN. 21

The Sniper

ADOLPHE MENJOU
ARTHUR FRANZ

FOR QUICK SERVICE

BATES CLEANERS

DYEING & ALTERATIONS — HATS BLOCKED
LAUNDRY SERVICE

f

i,
tm

‘First and Only Premium Quality

of over ten years.
After eight months, the medical specialist
reports that he observed...
no adverse effects on the nose, throat and
sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield,

/ King-Size

4

()

a ft!

He's a “heavy” in the play, ;
‘bat short on time. \' "4 j == Vd OCH MILDER
Busy students need quick GARETTE . ;
=e ees. P°° - CHESTERFIELD
where Coca-Cola comes in. | 6 + i

SOTTLED UNDER AYTHORTY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY bY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.

“Cala!” bs @ reghtered wale-amk, © 1982, 1s Cocs-coun Compu
a a

—_ ve =e om _—s 1
CONTAINS TODACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER ° IS BEST FO R YOU

PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING: SIZE CIGANETTE
Ae ee Cappeghs 1999, Linaure & Moms Tenasse On
