‘

young organists of the
Organists.

&

Ninety-fourth Psalm

remaining concerts of the

Sunday, March 8, at 4:00 p. m.
' University of Michigan, and Oberlin
Music, recently took
southeastern states sponsored by the) "¢%t two or three years, the Admin- the mountains of North

4

Flora McDonald College,

, will
organ recitals in the DaVidson

first place in a performance con-

include Fantasie and fugue in G minor (Bach),

(Reubke) and several shorter works.

charge for admission, but an offering will be taken
close of the recital.

series will be April 19 and May 10.

~

ary Society at its last meeting on
March 2.

An original paper in some liter-
ary form, usually essay or short
story, is required of all who seek
membership.

Those reading and their readings
are as follow: Jim Holshouser,
“Brown Mountain © Lights;” Jim
Armistead, ‘“Homecoming;” Bill
Hardin, “Life in the Infirmary;”
Bob Bankhead, “Essay on Educa-
tion;” Bill Kuykendall, “Ph.D;”
Phil Rice, “The Boy Who Didn't
Belong;” Cary Spiers, “Mardi Gras;”
and Bayles Mack, “Wit and Hu-
mor.”

New officers of Phi for this
semester are: Jim Speed, president,
Hunter Strader vice-president; Don
Mahy, treasurer; Ronnie Wilson,

secretary; and Mac Williamson and |

Cortez Cooper, supervisors.

FINE FOODS
STEAKS
. CHICKEN |JINNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sandays
Phone 132

Grade A Cafe

+18 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.

Dr. Mary Sloop

(Continued From Page One)
ped up in a number of stills. The
town's society was married at four-
| teen. The state of the town then
and now leaves little room for
doubt that Dr. Sloop and her hus-
band “got tough”, and spent their
lives so. i

Medical attention and education
came by force; threats and coersion
became the policy of the mission-
aries as they went about their work.
And the force paid off, for today
Crossnore has been brought from
the superstition and illiteracy of
a cefitury ago to a modern com-
munity with hospital, school, and
up-to-date inhabitants.

LeGette Blythe’s Miracle in the
Hills will be released on March
| 9 in celebration of Dr. Sloop’s eight-
ieth birthday. Blythe is to be hon-
ored at an open house at the Col-
lege Union on the night of March
|10.
Mr. Blythe will speak at 9:15,

‘Mi
O
O
R’ _

Mooresville
Creamery, Inc.

Want to travel
and
abroad?

See.
Take a university-sponsored
tour via TWA this summer
and earn full college credit

while you travel

Visit the countries of your choice
. study from 2 to 6 weeks at a
foreign university. You can do both
on one trip when you arrange a uni-
versity-sponsored tour via TWA.
Itineraries include countries in
Europe, the Middle East, Asia and
Africa. Special study tours available.
Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s
economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: John H.

Furbay, Ph. D., Director, Air World —

Tours, Dept. CN, 80 East 42nd St.,
New York 17, N: Y. Be sure to men-
tion countries you wish to visit.

_| themselves, During that period the

. THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Continued From Page Two)
that is similar to ours. When they
|put a new College Union on the
campus, they also required the
freshmen to eat as a group by

;hew men stayed in separate dor-' anseo Printons.
| mitories. But, in the course of the These color, photos were taken

jistration found that the honor with an additional one taken from

/system was completely breaking the front left of jan Eastern Airlines
| down, and that of men expelled for plane in flight. |

‘cheating came predominantly from ‘The exhibit will be up a little
the freshmen class. There were more than a week on the main ex-
_ almost five times as many men ex ion board in the Union. All the
'pelled from the freshmen class for photos were taken by Mr. Mat-
cheating as there were from the phewes himself, some of them hav-

‘combined undergraduate and grad ing to be made with much camera
uate classes at the University. They fash bulb light.

_were forced to discard the plan of
having new men eat together in ‘
Works And Life
(Continued From Page One)

order to salvage the honor system.
This is not hearsay or rumor, but |
is his disbelief in prize contests
and the fact that he has never

‘is substantiated by the man who
was president of the student body

entered any sort of literary compe-
tition.

at the University of Virginia during
But nevertheless he has been

the year that this new rule went

into effect. There is no reason to
awarded the Pulitzer Prize for the
best book of poetry of the year no

think that the same thing would
not happen here.
less than four times — in 1924, for
in 1931, for

The Administration is huw faced
with an either-or proposition. Eith-

er the class of 1957 and those fol-
lowing them will eat in the College
Union, with the: chance that the
honor system, the fraternities and |

“New Hampshire”;
“Collected Poems”; in 1934, for “A
Furthur Range”; and in 1943, for
“A Witness Tree”. He has received
honorary degrees from a host of

the school will suffer, or the Ad-| colleges and universities including

ministration will have to find some | Columbia, Dartmouth, Yale, and
new way to finance the Union's | prarvard 4 r

upkeep. They have siiown us statis-| ’
ties taken from other schools which | Those who hear Frost when he
seem to bear out their points uae ae Pyne College on
the fraternities will not suffer; that | arch 11 and 12 will soon become
the college will benefit; that it is," of the fact that these honors
impossible to- operate a success-| ‘id not affect the man or his work.
‘ful Union without a cafeteria, and| The quiet strength, the deep con-
‘that scholastic and intramural ac-|Vittions, have remained unshaken
tivities will be expedited. in the person as well as the poetry.
These statistics must be temper- The last lines of the first poem in
‘ed by the fact that many of the|tst’s first book has taken on a
‘analyses came from Universities'P®oPhetic conclusiveness:
‘which already have a 40% to 60% |. “They would not find me

independent faction on the campus, changed from him they
and not 18% such as we have. Fur- knew—

thermore, these campuses have} Only more sure of all I thought
‘more students available to use a was true.”

In his poetry Frost has undoubt-
| edly captured the heart of New
England and with it the love and
|new plan would necessarily affect.| admiration of all America. His
'To use these statistics as a criteria} poetry has never failed to warm
to judge the adaptability of a plan the hearts of those who know the
‘into a college where the conditions | common man — his life — his sor-
are quite different from the origi- | rows and his joys. Why has he be-
nal model is to distort the resultant| come the living example of a vi-
| assumptions. Our concern is how i | brant, yet homespun philosophy of

cafeteria. Our fraternity system is
|unique, as are many of the tradi-
|tions and practices which this

will work on the Davidson campus | American life? Perhaps his own

structor in order to receive a better grade or to give aid for
such a purpose; second, that such a concept of plain honesty

ought to be bounded by any legalisms or loopholes which may |

be fabricated to thwart the spirit of the Honor System. The
Student Council earnestly requests the cooperation of the
faculty in eliminating any vagueness or misunderstanding con-
cerning the Honor System by making specific announcements
to their students when any work is to be written.

{

Don't Scrap It;
That Postcard Can
Mean Extra Smokes
“There are free smokes ‘in the
Chesterfield campus representative,

who says he has mailed posteards |
to every student on the Davidson

campus announcing the offer of two
extra packs of Chesterfields, free
with the purchase of a carton of

| Frost To Give
(Continued From Page One) }

Va. Barter Theatre
|
Plays In Mooresville |ary world with the publication of

The Barter Players will nt books, “A Boy’s Will” and,

4 “North of Boston”. |
win production of “The Virgin- | These vod | the first of th

a play based on the famous | aimost entirely lyries and the see-
novel by Owen Wister, in the’ ond what the poet himself called
Mooresville High School auditorium “a book of people”, fore-shadowed’
on March 17. ‘much of Frost's later work. |

Robert Patterson, the founder’ They. are written in a language,
and director of the Players will | close to that of common rural New
play the leading role. In addition to’ England, dealing realistically with,
Patterson, other players appearing! the New England scenes and peo- |
will be: Owen Phillips, who has) ple that have been the subjects e
appeared in several Warner Bros,| most of Frost's work.
movies; Leo Chalzel, a veteran of; . Since then he has taught at sev-|
30 years in the theater; and Doro-/ eral colleges, has had nine books;
thy Lavern. ‘published, and produced a‘ wealth’

lof poetry that has made him one |
Golfers To Open

{
!

of America’s most read poets. In
|addition Frost has been awarded

(Continued From Page Three) _ the Pulitzer Prize for poetry four

teams record, and with the coming | Those planning to attend are re-
of Spring Vacation they will get minded ‘that guest tickets for the
that chance. ‘faculty or date tickets are $1.00,

On March 18 the Cat golfers pack | general public $2.00, and no seats
their clubs and tee off for Florida are reserved.

| Hugo’
came to the attention of the liter ; and 9

Chesterfields, either regular or
king-size during the period March

est to the Davidson student body
since this is the first time such
an offer has ever been made on
a college campus, and Davidson was

selected as the college at. which |

to “test run” the program. If
it is a success here, Hall states that |
the same offer will be made at col-
leges across the nation.

Entries Pouring In

(Continued From Page Three)
finalists wrestling for third and’
fourth places will be used rather
than the Bad Mark system.

The preliminary bouts will begin
at 7:30 Friday night, and will be
followed by the semi-finals at two
o’clock Saturday afternoon. The fin-
als are set for eight o’clock Satur-
day night. .

The cost for a faculty member or
student's tournament ticket — good
for admission to all three sessions

EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE

SKILLFULLY DONE

BY PRESSERS WITH
YEARS OF EXPERIENCE

THAT SATISFY

ONE-DAY SERVICE
AVALIABLE

— will be one dollar.

Frank L. Jackson, Jr.

where they will match strokes with |
some of the strongest golf teams in)
the country. .Starting with ritzy
Rollins on March 21 the linksters
run through a 13 match season, |
concluding with the Southern Con-|
ference Tournament, May 15-17.

Free Lance
(Continued From Page Two)
But the time is running out.
HOLD THE SINGING

There is a little song from The
| Wizard of Oz which many of us

—— . ae oe are prompted to sing. It goes “Ding
. Dong, the witch is dead.” But un-
“But yield who will to’ their /like the witch in the ditty, the
separation, witch in Moscow carries a. lot

more influence.
She may die, but the thing
she thought and spread

My object in living is to unite
My avocation and my vocation
As my two eyes make one in

sight. through the world will not be
Only where love and need are so ephemeral as we would like.
one, A man may personify an idea
And the work is play for | or train of thought, but it is
mortal stakes, | only @ personification. If this

‘Is the deed ever really done,

| were the case secret agents
For Heaven and the future’s |

could have effected Stalin's

sakes.” | decease long before this.

be

a ae

TWEED

TO PUT YOU IN A

GAY MOOD FOR

YOUR SPRING
HOLIDAYS

WATER-MILL
TWEED

This VARSITY-TOWN Sport coat
is casual and comfortable. Smart-
ly styled with semi - natural
shoulders, 2 buttons, single
breased, narrow lapels, flap poc-
kets, ticket pocket and side vents.
Sizes 34 to 42, regulars and longs.

35.00

Contrasting slacks in flannels,

FLOOR

,
; «
?

F Yepont on | SPECIAL 1st is making regular bi-

* monthly examinations of a group of people
from various walks of life. 45 percent of this
group have smoked Chesterfield for an average
of over ten years.

Thurs.-Fri. March 5-6
“THE FOUR POSTER”|

Rex Harrison, Lilli Palmer

- Saetip. Saat 7 7 .that he observed... worsted flannels and sheen gab-
ANNIE OAKLEY” | ardines. regulars
| no adverse effects on the nose, throat and gag a

) tn

15.00 to 2000

