THE HOT
hag est Sum mev weekly

DAYIDSONTAN
ke The Un ted Kaltes

THURSDAY, JUNE 25,1953 y |, N4s|

DANCE SATURDAY NIGHT

There's life around here yet, and no bache-
lors will be allowed in town Saturday
night when the first fling of the summer
will take over at the Union,

it s a semi~formal affair (girls love coats
and ties) that goes from 8:30 until 12
under a full moon (almost). All the big
rauce bands will be there, Anthony, etc.,
end features for the evening will be the
Bunny Hop and the Hokie Pokie,

Every facility of the Union will be open,
£~om the new Music Room with its high
fidelity player to the "billiard! taoles
fur the more athletic girls.

iyeryone is invitedj If you have any
friends, bring them. Bring your girl's
sister too§ There'll be no admission
charged, and if we support this dance,
greater things are yet to come,

It hasn't been decided yet who is to be
Master of Ceremonies, but some card is
bound to appear for games and variations
on cancing. Davidson's the place Sab.
night. Up and quit your books}

FELLOWSHIP HOUR

Bill Cunninghan, freshman graduate of
Darlington School, will be speaker at the
Fellowship Hour Sunday night, June 28 on
the terrace of the College Union.

The service wil. begin promptly at 7:00
and will be fcl?cwed by a social hour at
which refreshme:ts will be served,

The youth group from the College Presby-
terian Church will attend, as well as the
townspeople, Everyone, student and visi-
tor, is cordially urged to attend the
weekly hour of fellowship and worship.

SUGGESTIONS FOR WEEK-END ACTIVITIES

For the lonely bookworms who stick around
over the weekends (exempting the big weeke
end to come) there should be some sort of
entertainment besides organic chemistry.
Mr, Smith, director of the Union and’
coordinator of just about everything dur-
ing the summer, wants bright suggestions,
specific ones, as to what the Saturday
studs would like to do besides study. Do
you want movies, dates, or what? ("Wwhat"
is a kind of chicken pot pie) This week-
end's "Summer Frolics" is the result of a
direct request, so let's have more
suggestions.

SNACK BAR HOURS
The bar, that is the Snack Bar in the
College Union will have the following
hours until further notice:
10:00-113:30 aeM. Mon. - Fri.
7:00-10:00 p.m. Mon. - Fri.

Closed Saturday after lunch
and all day Sunday.

GAMES IN UNION

Seditious reports have it that the Bug-
ology labs and the history parallel are
keeping students from loafing, but this
is a loaf notice in case you have time
to read it. There are cames in the
Union for every mentality, from toy car.
to shuffleboard, Everyone else knows
about them, but a list of job opportun-
ities in the Union should be helpful to
freshmen at least: Dominoes, cards,
electric football, shuffleboard, detec-
tive games, chess, checkers, Chinese
checkers, pool golf and just plain pool,
And the professors don't mind a bit,
They may even smile a fiendish smile
and sit down to play a hand or two of
poker with you.

Games are there for the using, and
though there aren't enough of us here t&
use them all, we may as well try to mak«
the rounds before we flunk out] ~

By the way, 50 boys can play billiards
at one table and still pay "just" sixty
sheckles an hour.

EMPLOYMENT
MALE
Know how to toss a hamburger, squeeze a
lemon? See Mr, Smith quick!

MRS. FRENCH ON DATES

Mrs, French has seen the lonesome faces
and has offered to get dates for any bo:
who want them with girls about town, Sh.
makes no promises, but she is glad to
make introductions. I know you're in-
terested, so drop by her office at any-
time, Even if she can't find a date fo
you, you'll enjoy talking it over with
her,

‘HE SUMMER SCHOOL SIZZLER

Newspaper work may be a lousy occupatio
when the product is as it is this week,
but we had to find some excuse to keep
from boring Bevan and company with long
discourses on something we didn't under
stand anyway,

But we do understand that some of our
campus lovers find Davidson in the sum-
mer uninspiring. "I'11 swear I'11 quit
Murr up and yelled in the library last
night, but Benny seems to be settled fo
@ year with a home in Davidson.

Gilley has forgotten his worries and 01
ganized little varsity squad whose prac
tice field is the lush green grass of I
Chambers front yard.

There are entirely too many people who
study around here, though. Gragg is
straining for a 103 average, and even t
freshmen, Mitchell and Worm included, e
getting off to too good a start.
Cridlebaugh found time to go to the riv
for a mad pack beauty treatment Hon., t
it was only after he spent the week-end
