PAGE TWENTY-FOUR

Last week at the an-
nual meeting of mil-
lion dollar Davidson
College Quarterback
Club, the center of dis-
cussion was the plan
for installing a 10 me-
ter board in the swim-
ming pool in Johnston
. Gym. Frankly, we
think that it is past
time something was
done about the divin
facilities at our
To say that the p

: B sent situation is inade-

Ss B_ quafe would be the un-

By HALLETT WARD derstatement of the

year, and why something hasn’t been done sooner to relieve
the pressure can only be termed as an inexcuseable blunder.
Some members of the club have actually gone so far as

to venture that the Davidson student body does not need a
10 meter board. Such a statement is absurb and beyond all
bounds of practical reasoning, and one who harbors any such
misapprehensions has but to step for a few minutes into the
steamy pool room and his mind will quickly be changed.
Yesterday afternoon after a heated controversy with one of
the members who insisted that we didn’t need the new board,

a

1 suggested that we step for a few minutes into the pool room. |.

The moment we entered we felt the tension that griped the
group of boys who were huddled around the edge of the pool
while casting resentful glances in the direction of the present
diving board. As we edged closer to the group we heard one
of the boys tearfully mumble, “We’ll never be normal boys
until we ‘have a 10 meter board.”

“T never really realized how pressing the situation was,”
apoligized the now humble member of the club as we made
our exit. “I only hope I can do my part from now on.”

Several members held that the club would not afford such
an expensive undertaking, since first estimates ranged at well
over a million dollars. But Elgin White, with the aid of his
special staff, has recently recommended a simple plan that
will hold the cost down to slightly over half a million.

Instead of raising the whole roof as planned, White's in-
genius plan calls for merely cutting a 12 foot hole in the roof
which will allow the divers to spring as high as they wish
without danger. It would also give the fans more of a thrill
while they wondered whether or not the diver would make
it back through the hole. The original plan also called for tear-
ing out the bottom of the pool and making the whole thing
deeper, but according to White the cheapest thing to do is
to deepen the pool in the form of a six foot circle directly un-
der the board. This would also add to the spectators pleasure
and amusement as they wagered whether or not the diver
would hit in this area of deep water.

Regardless of which plan is adopted we think that the
time has come when Davidson can no longer afford to send
its graduates into the world without having had the experience
and confidence which comes only with perfection on the 10
meter board. Remember, a man can get three hundred and
fifty one inches higher on a ten meter board than on a one
meter board such as we now have.

o CUSTOM-LIKE QUALITY
oe CUSTOM-LIKE TAILORING
@ CUSTOM.-LIKE FIT

No other Slacks give so much Satisfaction

Smart for business or dress
weor... comfortable
for leisure or sports...
Mayfair slacks give you
that feeling of well-
dressed ease wherever
you are, wherever you
go. No other pair of
slacks gives you such
oll-cround satisfaction
as our superbly tallored
Maytairs! Come in and
see our wonderful
selections! i

8.95 to 16.95

| N
The Young Men's Shop
“Clothing For Men”

116 N. MAIN ST.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

PHONE 2-237)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Basketball Scandal Hits Campus;

Two Wildcat Players Are

INTRAMURALS TO ADD NEW SPORT

The Interfraternity Sports’ Com- 12) Fifty beauties from Vassar,
mittee has regnty announced that | Sweetbriar, and Que—, will be
“Wicked Wille’ Pharr, who fin-| turned loose between “Franks” and
ished Davidson on the five year] the “Brocken Anchor”, (no resemb-
plan, and “Hasty Heath” Whittle | lance to “Catch the Greased Pig”)
of Olympic fame, have approved|and the object is for the male
a new intramural sport which will] contestants to obtain as many blue
begin soon. Although Pharr takes| garters as possible from the cuties.
no blame, he admits he learned| Only twenty will wear this color
the sport in southern Tasmania. | garters, but this should make the
Censorship prohibits our giving all| specticle very interesting. The re-
the details, but Jim Speed can pro-| ward will not be as generous as
vide further information. it is in Tasmania, but the man with

This enticing sport dates back | the most blue garters wil] have his

The names of all players con-
nected are being withheld until
complete investigations have been
made, but an authoritative source
said that the names will be releas-

to 490 B.C. when Pheidippides ran{ choice: ten dollars credit at
from Marathon to Athens to an-|‘Hugo’s” or at a state store just
nounce victory. (Eberhardt’s Bible | outside Charlotte.

MATTERS WRESTLE IN JOHNSTON GYMNASIUM SATURDAY
ia” ome

ay

"
L a

GENE CRAVEN

a

CAROL COOK

MOVING TO REY VOCATION

Up to 98 %Reduction!!

At the Student

OTHER SPECIALTIES

Sell Out Sale!!

Davidson T-Shirts, Sox
Golf Balls, Tennis Balls—Crib

Latest Pocketbooks by Spillane,

and Chalmers Davidson
Popular & Unpopular Brand Cigarettes

Sandwiches — Soft Drinks,
Borden Ice Cream

a

Time For Your

hh

The Student Store receives hundreds of
letters every week from satisfied customers. A
typical unsolicited testimony comes from Dr.
J. R. C. of Davidson, N. C. “My favorite hang-
out’s at the Stud. Come and entertain your
friends there, too. You haven't really lived until
you've eaten on one of the Studs “deliciously
fresh sandwiches and enjoyed a refreshing

Cheer-wine.”

SERVICE STATION
DAVIDSON, N. C.

REMEMBER MEN — BRING YOUR GIRL
TO THE STUD DURING
SPRING FROLICS

Doug Rice, Proprietor
The Student Store

Sheaffer Pen & Pencil Sets
Fraternity Pennants & Crests—Fevors

Sir Derrick Barton Tennis Rackets

Involved

Canceled Check Links Fix -
To N. Y. Gambling Syndicate

Two members of Davidson’s championship basketball
team were taken into custody last night by special agents,
and according to first reports at least two more of Coach
Danny Miller’s players are involved in what appears to be the
top money sports fix of all time.

ed sometime tomorrow. —

Chief agents P. Moore and Phil
Potts made the arrests at 2:30 last
night just as the two players were
leaving the swank El] Morron Club
in Charlotte in the company of
two mink coated blonds. The play-
ers are being held without bond
pending further investigations for
accepting bribes which may total
more than five hundred thousand
dollars.

Agent P. Moore saia his suspi-
cions were first aroused in New
York on Jan. 28, the day after a
heavily favored Davidson team,
which was supposed to defeat Holy
Cross by 30 points, barely slipped
by with a twelve point victory. On
that day one of the Davidson play-
ers donated a check for twenty
five thousand dollars to the New
York Fund for Old Cats.

“That’s what first tipped us off,”

.| said tight lipped Moore. “That

check was signed by Lou Burdine,
notorious New York gambler.
Right then we knew something was
wrong. We stayed on the heels of
the Davidson team as they toured
from one end of the country to
the other and it soon became ap-
parent that in every game they
won by 12 or 15 points less than
they were favored to win by, and
that after every game certain play-
ers cashed twenty five thousand
dollar checks, all drawn on Bur-
dine.” .

Although both players have been
undergoing heavy questioning since
their arrest, neither have as yet
confessed anything. “It’s none of-
your business where or why I got
that money,” said one of the play-

Store

2
2
= 5
5 x?
Sheets < 332
- 2
v Bs 8
Caldwell 2 & 33
“ 327
< by
Milk S &
=

AT YOUR

Change Oil,

=

Wwe J 7

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 1953

Wildcat of the Week:

Launeelot J. Calvin: A
Four Letter Winner

Here we are kiddies with this week's number one genuine
red blooded hero — our wildcat of the week! Following the
usual custom we had planned to display his manly features at
the head of this column, but his delicate eyes presented our
roving camera man’s efforts to flashbulb him. So, with noth-
ing more than a slight fanfare of the bazooka chorus, we in-
troduce Launcelot J. Calvin, Davidson’s Wildcat of the Week.

Launcelot earned this accolade by virtue of several out-
standing actions during the last few weeks, including setting
a new record in the depth-perception game at the Student
Union, (you know-twist thé knobs and the little steelie rolls?)
as well as maintaining perfect attendance at the Artist Series,
and holding down the no. 2 position on the chess team.

Launcelot, or “Raunchy” as his friends at Ironberry
Woods Prep School laughingly called him, is a competitor from
way back. He has won a monor “d” sweater (sleeveless) in
four sports, including backgammon, old maid, themewriting
and chapel conduct. He won the icing in the 1950 freshman
cake race, and was very brave and stoical about his six-month
hospital stay afterwards.

Raunchy modestly refused to flex his muscles for this
reporter claiming that mosquito bites had faked him so often
he hated to waste the effort of locating the right one.

Launcelot typifies the Wilsonian idea of the Boys’ Town
gentleman, down to his plaid jock, without which he never
enters Johnston Gym. He claims to be intimately familiar with
the gym, having spent three days wandering around in its
depths when he found himself lost there as a freshman with-
out his glasses.

Bulova Black sports writer deluxe, has given great play to
Raunchy’s rise to stardom, plugging him in the Cornelius Daily
Tissue as Davidson's answer to the Dusek Brothers.

“I like Gothic” giggled Raunchy; “It sends me”. So we left
him, oiling his butterfly net in the floor of his room at Hoke
House, and pushed off through the debris, hot on the trail of
a reporter’s dream — rumors that a pineapple chain has
bought the Wildcat gridders!

There he is kiddies — L. J. Calvin, Boys’ Town’s Wildcat
of the Week! Tune in next week, same space, for apother
toenail sketch of one of Our Boys — another rip-snorting,
cold-blooded athlete in every sense of the word?

ers. “When my daddy gets here ing to the arrests, and was par-
you'll be sorry for this.” ticular high. in his praise of David-

Sam Fosdick, chief of detectives,}son policeman E. N. Linker who
praised the work of his agents in| gave a superb example of scientif-
conducting the investigation lead-| ic investigation.

OUTSTANDING SERVICES

; RENDERED

3. Room? Service—our specialty is breakfast
° 4 in bed

: : Two week Valet Service

z 3 Bookie Service

= 2 Glockenspiels Cleaned

3 2 Bicycles Washed

= Easter eggs redyed

(first week in April only)

Spring Tune-Up!

EXPERIENCED ESSO DEALER

Grease, Drain Anti- Freeze, Flush Radiator,
Wash and Wax Service
-—
ay al’
} my
4
az
Feed
2

Hubert Cannon, President of YMCA, shown standing by the
ton won ae 1s he chavterre. the Ing by the new YMCA Ford Delux Sedan on dupute-

Station.

“¥” car is always serviced at W. H. Reld’s Esso
