PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WERKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF -~-_.....-.......-.-.----. Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR --..-..........-...--------- Johan Ottley
a Brinkley, Harter, Hope, -
Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.
Managing Editors -...........-... Hasselt, J. M. Moore, Owens

Some comme esos se ceeecewreore

Associate Editors

Sports Editor ~..........-------ceccecneecenecee Dick Roper
-News Editor—D, M. Smith Feature Editor—T. A. Williams
Arts Editor—Mahy Assignments—Strand.

Photographer ~-.~~.~..--.------- nee nen ee ene ne meee nee Simons
Assistant Business Manager ........-..-...---.--------- Poston
Advertising Manager ~.......--...202-.------- mecwenena Hasty
Circulation Manager -.-----....----------------..-_. Nicholson
Collection Manager ~..-.....--...-.....------------ Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

We Advocate Fireworks!

We advocate the explosion of fireworks, but not at the dis-
cretion of our apparently half-witted scholars. There may be
some sort of vicarious value to these dry runs for Korean combat,
but being blasted off his chair several times each day becomes
rather nerve racking for one who has been upset from a concen-
trated exam marathon.

Also, we should not overlook the pleasant surprise afforded
some unsuspecting student when he gets struck in the face with
one of these toys. However, it’s a great sport to live dangerously
by having to dodge these instruments of destruction dropped
hourly from ‘our ivy-covered halls.

It really seems a waste of time, though, to piddle with two
or three firecrackers a day. We are therefore advocating a giant
fireworks exhibiton to be held in the gymnasium for the best
acoustical effect. Admission will be three “‘3-inchers,’’ two ro-
man candles, and six lady fingers. If the current interest is up-
held and the entire student body attends, the grand total of
fireworks exploded will be 9,204.

This will surely go down on the books as a new tradition.
one at least that has something behind it. The overall effect will
be tremendous, even more beautiful than a night problem of a
rifle company in the attack, or more explosive than a TNT
bomb flushed down the commode. The great ethereal and ev-
enescent beauty might command some student at Davidson to
write a stirring piece as did Francis Scott Key.

The real purpose gained would be twofold: first. to rid our-
selves of the pent-up tensions acquired during exams and, second-
ly, to celebrate New Year's eve for those men who could not
spend it at home. The date will! be announced later. Meanwhile,
if anyone wishes to order fireworks, Jack Ruth will order them
at a discount for you.

In all seriousness, we gripe about the failure of the college
administration to treat us as mature individuals. But as long as
we don't abide by a few simple rules that are for the benefit
of all what else can we expect.

To flunk out of college is a serious thing. The present
childish conduct during study hours has made it impossible ‘to
study in several of the dorms. This disturbing conduct is in-
excusable. Moreover. the few rules of common courtesy to our
fellow students should be practiced not only during exam week,
but throughout the whole school year. Correspondingly, re-
form and progress are difficult, if not impossible, as long as im-
maturity, even among a few students, exists.

Let's use our heads.

Until we can act like men, we cannot expect to be treated
as such by the faculty and administration. And not only can we
not expect it, but we don’t deserve it.

“Tyranny of the Right Can Easily
Become Tyranny of the Left”

‘The dynamic words of Rev. Frank Price in chapel Tuesday
brought sharply into focus one of the most basic problems of
the Western World. That problem for us is not Communism
pervse, nor any political theory, but the way that Communism
operates, from within. Our greatest danger is not the battlefield
—we have demonstrated our ability there—but in our failure to
comprehend the full meaning of Rev. Price’s words, '‘a tyranny
of the right can easily become a tyranny of the left.”

We have shown a dangerous tendency to let fear of Com-
munism distort our thinking to the point that anything they
‘are for, we are against. Hence, when they promote world peace

for propaganda purposes, we argue that war is better than let-
ting them win the battle for minds. The farther they move to
the left. the more we compromise with the right. Simply by a
well-calculated ‘‘Boo’’ they can lead us into assuming their tactics
of guilt by association, suppression of independent thought by
fear of public stigma, etc. In short we have sacrificed the initia-
tive to become a puppet geared to react to every move they make.

This is not to say we have exaggerated the threat of Com-
munism, for, as our speaker said, this is a powerful faith bent on
the destruction of its enemies. Our mistake is in underestimating
the effectiveness of its tactics. Our claim to world support is
Christian democracy and freedom. If we give up even the small-
est part of this to fight them, they have scored a point. Thus
our problem is how to maintain our own equilibrium and yet
hit back.

The first step in the solution of this delimma is to realize,
as Rev. Price said, that the Communist regimes of such nations
as China have many good points on their side. They have
to in order to get the original support of the people. We must
learn not to attack them simply for being Communists, for in
so doing we attack their good points as well as the bad: we
oppose land reform, social welfare programs, etc., by implication.

To beat them we must not attack by blanket indictment but
outdo them at the good and show the world that tyranny of
any kind doesn’t have to be the cost. Once we accept that chal-
lenge we will see the problem much less hysterically. We can
fight faith with greater faith, rather than being led by Com-
munist prompting to abandon our only invulnerable stronghold,
Christian democracy—G.A.B.

As we sit in the hot sun over.
ooking the Riviera waiting for
customs to finish their slow in-
spection, we begin to think about
what lies behind us on the road
over which we just have come. Be-
hind us is Italy, the land which
extends southward for seven hun-
dred miles, from the snow-covered
Alps to the warm azure Mediter-
ranean. Italy is a land of history
and a land of wealth, past and
present. We begin a reminiscence
of the events that have happened
during the last two weeks.

Our first day in Italy was spent
in Milan, second only to Rome
since the days of the Roman Em-
pire. We saw the famous cathedral,
the third largest church in tke
world with its countless turrets,
pinnacles, and over: 4000 statues.
We saw Leonardo Da Vinci's “The
Last Supper,” which was almost
destroyed during the last war. All

Barry Expresses
Appreciation For
Job Well Done

Dear Editor:

The YMCA Gift Fund Campaign
is over and most of the pledges
have been collected. As chairman
of the drive I wish to thank the
many people who have aided in
making it such a success.

I want to especially thank Leigh-
ton Green, Hunter Strader, and
Charlie Hassell, without whose
work the goal would never have
been reached. Leighton and Hunter,
as chairmen of solicitations, were
unticing in their efforts to keep
the dorm captains and canvassers
on the job, and Charlie did a
splendid job with the publicity.

1 want to thank the dorm cap-
tains and solicitors for the hours
that they spent contacting the men
and seeking their support. They
have done the real work, and the
success of the campaign is evidence
of their effort.

I want to again thank publicly
Rev, Paul Freeland for coming to
Davidson to make the appeal, and
Mr. N. M. Willis, manager of J. E.
Hanger of North Carolina, Inc.,
(manufacturers of artificial timbs)
for lending us the artificial leg that
was seen on the scales.

A word of thanks goes to Dr.
Cunningham, whose voice of con-
cern produced a last-minute ava-
lanche of gifts that pushed the fund
over the goal. Thanks also to Jim
Speed for his response to Dr.
Cunnigham’s message and the ap-
peal which brought final success.

In conclusion I want to express
my appreciation to the entire stu-
dent body for the way they re.
sponded to the campaign and have
met the goal for this worthy cause.

Sincerely,
ERNEST H. BARRY,
Chairman Y Gift Fund.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

~ was

We lL JUST HAVE A COLD SMACK Now y=

DAVIDSONIAN_ ABROAD: |

The Road Behind Leads To Two
Weeks In Old Land of Romans

By JACK EFIRD

that saved this fading master-piece}a dark alley with only the sound

were sandbags piled high to the
ceiling protecting the wall on which
it is painted.

After Milan our bus rode over
the rough narrow roads through
the northern towns of Verona and
Padua to Venice, the city without
an equal of its kind in the world.
The city is built on a group of
islands rising out of the eastern
limit of the Po River. For streets
there are interwinding canals
spanned by more than four hun-
dred bridges. If one doesn't ride
in a gondola or motor ladnch, he
walks, because there are no wheeled
passenger vehicles in the city. The
walks are narrow, dark, and twist-
ing throughout the City. The only
open place in the area is St. Mark's
Plaza where people gather to shop,
talk and eat. At night after the
gaiety and noise of the Plaza has
died out, all one can hear in the
quietness of the Adriatic are the
lapping of the water along the
canals and the yelling of hundreds
of cats which wander along the

empty walks. During the day when’

walking one easily can get off the
main thoroughfares and find one-
self away from the crowds along

° jh
Only Zime will Bll... < Ost tine wit al oct
PYTHIAN! NEXT time vil fall ebout @ cate
: IAS! N wi about a
NO MORE SQUABBLES! THEY'LL wei YEAH...TO KEEP ‘Take your time...
NO MORE FIGHTS! HOLDING \ FROM SLUGGING,

FROM NOW ON, HANDS!
ts 176 BuDDy-BuDpy! ) RIGHT!

= RIGHT? 4 YOUAND ME!

mh 17 WERE

| PALS FOR
LiFe!

More People Smoke Ca

of singing from dark old buildings
to tell you that there are still peo-
ple around. This queen of the
Adriatic once ruled the Mediterra-
nean from the coast of North
Africa to the Bosphous. Now it is
‘a@ town which we remember from
our history books.

Leaving Venice we traveled
through Ferrara and Bologna along
one of the most modern highways
in the world to Florence, artistical-
ly’ one of the most famous cities
in the world—the cradle of the
Renaissance. Throughout the many
museums are famous works of
Botticelli, Titian, Leonardo, Giotto,
Michelangelo, and many others.
Among the city’s illustrious sons
are the Medici, Dante, and Machia-
velli. Florence is a city which well
deserves its place high in the art
world. ,

After a ride through the hill
towns of the Appenies, we arrived
at the fabulous Italian capital of
Rome, a city both ancient and mod-
ern, We can see the witnesses to
the passing of centuries: The Colos-
seum, the greatest amphitheater in
antiquity; the Circus Maximus,

(Continued On Page Four)

THE FREE LANCE:

( FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1953

Union Disappointingly Ideal
With One Gustatory Flaw Only

With the crite’s typically blood.
shot eyes and shifty glances we
crept warily into the Student
Union this week. Beady orbs dart-
ing from corner to corner, we won-
dered just where to start ripping
the place apart. Surely if it existed
on the Davidson campus it could
have no iota of good.

“Lights are pretty bright in
here,” we mused. They were until
we sat down to read some uf the
magazines and found they were
incredibly well suited for this pur-
pose. “Looks as if they actually
spent some time designing this il-
lumination system,” we grudged.

We had expected the interior
furnishings to compare with
those of other campus build-
ings, but noticed with glee the
modern motif. We have to hand
it to the keepers of the union—
they kinda got the idea about
furniture. The stuff is made
to be comfortable.

We did have to emit an honest
chuckle at the inevitable sign ad-
vertising proposed future construc-
tion. Is there a college in this fair
land which does not have such a
sign posted for eternities? We
rather feel that this one means
more than “Look, alumni, progress
with a big P.”

What were those sounds per-

By JOHN OTTLEY

* meating the atmosphere? Huh,
sounded almost like soothing
music. In fact . . . well that is
quite unusual, but how in the
world do they expect us to
concentrate? This question died
on our lips as we found our-
selves doing just that on our
column.

When told of the student. office
space upstairs we snorted in dis-
belief. “Even if they have them
they won't contain enough floor
space.” Then we looked and found
more than enough room to beat
around in even in the office allotted
to this weekly effort.

We realized this latter was the
supreme test since on make-up
Wednesday nights we seem to need
half a gridiron and six layers of
sound-proofing.

Things were looking darker,
not for the union but for our
reputation as trouble shooter
In a previous article we had
intimated that after all this
time the union had better be
good and horror of horrors it
was.

“Place probably isn’t well ran,”
we muttered in desperation. This
lasted as long as it took us to see
the up-to-date bulletin boards,

duty maintaining a rare bit of
dignity in sensible coat and tie,
and most of all the business-like
countenance of the director.

Stepping into the spotless
servery by way of an elegant
dining room we were over-.
whelmed by the all-day cof-
fee service. Casting our tup-
pence into the appropriate jar
we decided to lose face and
sit down to enjoy the union.
The first aip of the great
American bean juice brought a
flash of joy and relief.

Even as we grimaced and hur-
riedly spat out this product of a
used locomotive boiler we were
smiling within, for we had found
something here to denounce. We
even got reckless and gave it a
chance ‘by adding three large
helpings of sugar and quantities of
condensed milk. No change.

It wasn’t that we minded its
eating into our clothing so
much; it was just that we were
in them at the time. Aye, the
brew would have made Faus-
tus wince and Long John Sil-
ver apply for VA  hospitall-
zation.

At least we could go home and
sleep well this night knowing the

latest night hours of any campus| Lance had not stooped to finding
facility except the stud, man on|anything here all good.

Has The True Purpose and Function Of
Davidson’s Honor System Fallen Short?

Anyone who has ever gone
through Orientation Week will re-
member, with some trepidation, the
stress which was laid upon the
honor system as it operates at Da-
vidson, and the admonition that all
of us would be expected to uphold
and preserve this system by adher-
ing to it. We were told that our
fullest co-operation would be need-
ed to make this a workable sys-
tem. This we accepted, realizing
that it would be impossible for an
honor code to function properly if
only 50 per cent of the students
subscribed to it. - ‘

In retrospect, however, it seems
that the honor system has fallen
far short of what its primary func-
tion should be—that of engender-
ing in each man a sense of personal
honor; or, an honest desire on the
part of each man to guard his in-
tegrity. As it stands now, the honor
system has degraded to where it is
no more than a stick wielded over
our heads, requiring us to turn in
anyone we see cheating, under pen-
alty of expulsion. It is a system
of fear rather than honor; we re-
frain from cheating. not so much
because of the moral issue involved,

but rather because we do not want

By RONALD WILSON

to be expetled or to incur the
social disapproval and- stigma
which would follow as corollaries of
expulsion. The emphasis has shifted
to the consequences which would
follow a breach of the honor sys-
tem, rather than being on the in-
dividual development of a sense of
honor in each student.

The Administration must bear
part of the blame for this concep.
tion of the honor as it now stands,
for in many cases they do not re-
spect the integrity of the students.
A number of men went into Mrs.
Dagay's office to get the recosd
Straightened out about cuts they
had taken over Christmas to work,
and ran into a snag. Their word
wasn’t enough; she had been in-
structed to get a written note from
each of the employers vouching
that each of the men had worked
in his place of business during the
holidays.

If there is a mistake in the cuts
credited to a student, he must get
the signature of his professor before
the records in the office can be
straightened out. Except for Chapel
and Vespers, when, as a sop, we
can exercise our own honor, a stu-

dent’s word must be verified by

¥

THERE MUST BS A REASON WHY Camel
is America’s most popular cigarette—
leading all other brands by billions!
Camels have the two things smokers
want most~sich, full fevor and cool,
cool mildeess...pack after pack! Tey
Camels for 30 days and see how mild,
how flavorful, how thoroughly enjoy-
my able they are as your steady amoke!

someone of authority. Finally, al-
though we supposedly have an
honor system, there is a pledge at
the end of each writ, review, and
exam which must be signed. It's ob-
vious that anyone who will cheat
on a piece of work will certainly
have no qualms about signing his
name to a worthless pledge.

The whole problem stems from
an inadequate, unbalanced, inter-
pretation and application of the
honor system. As long as the honor
system is interpreted to be a re-
straining agent whereby each stu-
dent is played off against his
neighbor in an effort to preserve
honesty, there will be no develop-
ment of personal integrity in the
individual. And until the Adminis.
tration sheds its paradoxical man-
ner in dealing with students, the
honor system will be honor in
name only.

A system such as ours can be
an excellent system if it is ran
by the volition of those under its
auspicies. If, however, it serves
only to regiment and coerce peo-
ple into conforming to its tenets,
the main purpose for its existence,
that of creating personal integrity,

has been lost.

