PAGE TWO

_.. And The Students Find Room
To Fuss About The Sorry Team

Once upon a time as the fairy tale goes, Davidson was
known far and wide for its fighting football teams and its
strong school spjrit. The fighting football team remains but
the school spirit has long since departed.

Last Saturday marked the lowest decline yet as cheer-
ing for the boys on the field, once a spontaneous show of
student support but now unfashionable among many David-
sonians, was almost non-existent. Only once or twice did the
ghost of the now buried but once active Davidson spirit make
a showing. While it may appear to some that we had little
to cheer about, we certainly cannot use this as an excuse for

our indifference.

Anyone in the stands could easily see that each man of
our team was putting everything he had into every play, and
if the opposing player was a little bigger or a little more
rested, it certainly wasn’t his fault. It was equally apparent
to all concerned that for the most part no one in the stands
cared too much one way or another. Even those who wanted
to yell a little were prevented from doing so by the attitude
of those around them. It almost seems as if the typical urbane
Davidson gentleman now looks down on his “square” fellow
classmate who occasionally has a boorish desire to cheer for
his school and his team.

Perhaps the day of being enthusiastic over athletic con-
tests has passed or belongs to high schools or maybe even
large universities. Perhaps yelling encouragement to that boy
who is scrapping every play and getting hit hard in the process
is just waving the flag and ought to be stopped completely so
that we can enjoy the game. Somehow, however, it just doesn’t
seem right. We have a football team and although they haven't
won too many this year, they have generally made a creditable
showing despite the scores. It is up to us the student body
to back them. If we only wanted them to win half as much as
they want to win themselves, we would have no trouble in
yelling our lungs out through the whole game.

We must have some new cheers to replace the weak,
worn-out ones we now have. The cheers we now have often
kept our cheerleaders from doing their best. They are espe-
cially hard on the students who find it difficult to generate
any genuine enthusiasm to these pointless inexpressive yells.
What we need is a greater variety of short simple cheers.

When a team behind five touchdowns can come out of
the huddle cheering louder than the student body they repre-
sent, it’s time for the students to do something. Cheerleaders
can do only so much; we the students must be the ones to back
up the team tomorrow and help them beat The Citadel.—F FF.

Chapel Problem Should Be Solved
With Sense Rather Than Sarcasm

Everybody talks about chapel but nobody does anything
about it. This paraphrase on the sage comment about the
weather seems to typify the present student attitude toward
what has been called the “Chapel Problem,” the “Chapel
Furore,” and even worse things.

The fact of the matter is that there are plans afoot at
present to “do something” toward improving the daily chapel
program with an eye toward making them worthwhile as well
as encouraging a more favorable attitude among us. The ideas
presented to the Faculty Chapel Committee and Y Board of
Directors meetings have included one to have three short
chapels per week in the church and hold two student assem-
blies in Chambers, thus virtually eliminating all long chapels
with outside speakers. This seems to us a step in the right
direction.

There seems to be almost as many ideas as in-
dividuals about what sliould be done, if anything. There is q
feeling in some quarters that chapel should be made a more
meaningful religious service. We have no quarrel with the
intention involved here, but have grave doubts that daily
compulsory religious service can be made very meaningful to
the student who doesn’t want to go anyhow.

“ That chapel is far from ideal is certain, but ours is the
opinion that as a religious service it can never constitute a
real spiritual experience until it is voluntary.

Nevertheless we believe that as long as compulsory chapel
is with us, we have an obligation to accept it in a gentlemanly
fashion, as one of the duties entailed in coming to Davidson
College.

By working for a fandamental change in the situation
through constructive criticism and utilization of the right to
express ourselves in a sincere, discreet manner we can ac-
complish much more than by idle griping and thoughtless
misconduct. >

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Moody Smith
BUSINESS MANAGER Charley Hasty
ASSOCIATE EDITORS Jim Moore, Dick Roper
Assistant Editors Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell,

Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter. Strader
Managing Editors Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
Sports Editor John Handley

News Editor — Austin Strand Feature Editor — T. A, Williams

Art Editor Ed Price Photographer ___ Andy Simons
Assignments Blake Brinkerhoff

Asst. Business Manager Ed Nicholson

Advertising Manager Tommy Taylor

Cireulation Manager Dick Little

Collections Manager Tim Cooper

Botered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

OPERATION FAR EAST

y

t

Look ovT/ BUILDING LEAKS

MOVE 1S COMPLETED, HAPPY STUDENTS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fy

oe
ao

VILY TO ONE S102 —~STUDENTS SHow" CONCERN

RETURN To DoeMs —-OVELTOYED .

Brownell’s Charge Proven True;

Squabble Did No One Any Good

The current political squabble
which has brought former Presi-
dent Harry Truman back into the
nationol spotlight could be called
a tragedy of blunders, so serious
and damaging have the effects of
the issue been to American unity
prestige abroad. It is probably true
that nobody except possibly Ameri-
ca‘s enemies have profited from
the controversy between Truman
and Attorney General Brownell.

It would have been better for
the whole country and all parties
concerned, if the issue had never
been brought up. But equally
blameworthy, I believe, have been
the performances of the two prin-
ciple characters in this shoddy
drama of headlines, floodlights|
and microphones.

Brownell to Blame

In the first place, Brownell is to
blame for not being more specific
about his charge in the first place.
When on November 6 he stated
that “Harry Dexter White was
known to be a Communist spy by
the very people who appointed
him to the most sensitive and im-
portant position he ever held in
government service,” the inference
generally made throughout the
country was that Truman was aid-
ing and abetting subversion in the
government. I do not believe the
Attorney General would be foolish
enough to make that charge unless
he had conclusive evidence that
such was actually the case.

What I believe Brownell meant
in the first place to do was to
attack the laxity of Truman’s ad-
ministration in dealing with com-
munism rather than the former
President's loyalty. This situation
was later clarified by Brownell’s
statement that he had no inten-
tion of impugning the loyalty of
Truman, but the damage was al-
ready done.

Truman Clouded Issue

On the other hand, it seems to
me, Mr. Truman has clouded the
whole issue in reaching for martyr-
dom in his Monday night speech.
His overall record of fighting com-
munism, in the Truman Doctrine
and the Marshall Plan, has estab-
lished him as a firm supporter of
measures to stop Russian imperial-
ism. As soon as he realized the
true nature of the communist
threat, Mr. Truman was also strong
in support of the fight to stop
subversive action inside America.

Instead of citing his record, and
admitting that the White case was
bungled (thereby missing a chance
to take most of the steam from his
opponents’ arguments), Mr. Tru-
man reverts to his old role of
name-calling politician and thus
prolongs the whole issue needless-
ly. °

tronicel Feature

The most ironical feature of the
whole incident is that in his Mon-
day night speech Mr. Truman act-
ually confirmed Brownell’s origin-
al charge that the very people who
appointed Harry Dexter White
knew he was a spy. Yet he makes
the deliberate statement in that
address that “His (Brownell’s)
charge was false, and Mr. Brownell
must have known it was false at

By DICK ROPER

the very time he was making it.”

Mr. Truman plainly admits that
he learned of White’s subversive
activities from the FRI report
dated February 6. This was before
he finally signed the commission
appointing White to the top posi-
tion in the Internationa] Monetary
Fund. Yet he made no effort to
withhold this commission. “When
the results of these consultations
were reported to me, the conclu-
sion was reached that the appoint-
ment should be allowed to take
its normal course.” Thus it is ob-
vious that Brownell’s original
charge was true, and that Truman
was the one who erred when he
called the Attorney General a liar
in his Monday night speech.

Other Possible Arguments

These petty arguments over a
dead issue could go on. It might be
possible to maintain that Brown-
ell’s original statement was an im-
plication that Truman knew White
was a spy even before he was ever
appointed, and one might success-
fully maintain that Truman was
doing a stupid thing to ignore the
FBI's recommendation (made to
two cabinet members) that White
not be retained.

‘But what does all this prove?
The Republicans gained nothing,
save possibly one Congresstonal
seat from the election in California
which followed Brownell’s charge;
surely that was not worth all the
bitterness and wrath the issue has
evoked. The Democrats, on the
other hand, certainly gained noth-
ing by Truman’s_vituperative
speech of Monday night. The

American people have been di-

vided on a dead issue, in a time
when unity against the internal and
external dangers is vital.
Role of Partisan Politics
It has been said that partisan

EXCHANGE NOTES:

politics is the heart of American
government. Since the time that
political parties developed in
America from the conflict between
Hamilton and Jefferson, charges
and countercharges of all sorts
have been used to win political

campaigns, and almost anything
that could be used for political
capital haa been seized upon.

But it ls to be sincerely hoped
that in the future, people who are
in such responsible positions as
Attorney General Brownell, will at
least think through what the ef-
fect of such charges would be and
what they might benefit—or lose—
before doing anything else of such
a nature.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR:

Is Paper Tool Of
Tradition?
Dear Editor:

Now that the diploma issue js
settled I hope that The Davidso-
nien will go back to trying to be
a newspaper instead of a propa-
ganda machine for the “Baron of
the Rookshelves,” This idea of
turning over the editorials,
columnists, and news columns to
intimidate the unthinking David-
son student into more conforml-
ty (as if we didn’t have enough!)
is a totalitarian and indecent one.
I'm not opposed to traditions, but
let's have some intelligent ones
instead of these phony, perverted
Ney ones. Hereafter let's vote yea

and not Ney.
. DISGUSTED.

Honor In A University

(Reprinted from the Daily Tar Heel)

So I gather the word “honor” has been used to mean
quite various things. What might it mean in a Univer-
sity? For although I attach enormous value to merely
obeying the code we follow in this University we need
as seekers after truth to understand, just as fully as we
are able, what the code implies, and what honor essential-
ly is. We need to understand what further applications
it might have for a community devoted to learning, than
we have perhaps made or even thought of making. We
need the letter’ of the code, but we want its spirit too.
If we do not through thinking about it, expand that spirit,

then we risk contracting it.

I suggest, then, that when our academic forefathers
sought to dissociate the idea, honor, from the duel and to
associate it with truth, they were consciously or uncon-
sciously recognizing that what a university specifically
honors is truth, and that truth is not reached through
lying or cheating. They then turned the matter of lying
and cheating over to the students. And the students de-
cided to eliminate, quietly but promptly, any one of their
number found lying or cheating.—Stringfellow Barr.

OFF-MOORINGS:

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1953

“Which Way Davidson?” Ghost
Returns to Campus-Older, Wiser

Back in 1951-52, the editor of
this newspaper, Bill White, used
to delight in coining a phrase—
prosacially and vocally—and ex-
pounding on its possibilities. It
was, “Which way D&vidson?” He
was interested in the direction Da-
vidson should take concerning her
football program.

White followed the trend of the
day, and created a trend himself in
discussing the issue and bringing
it to the attention of students and
alumni.

In the past year or two public
interest among students has not
been so strongly presented because
(1) last year’s editor said little
about the situation, and (2) an at-
titude of wait-and-see has been
adopted by students and alumni.

The essential position is that

| Davidson wants a football team—

for purposes of giving intercol-
legiate competition, for a means
of contact with the alumni, and
for allowing students an athletic
and social means of expressing
themselves.

A letter to the editor earlier this
year on the subject elicited only
sporadic response among students.
This is interesting, as the position
of the co-authors of that letter was
that Davidson should go “all out”
in subsidizing football. Their con-
clusion was that we should no
longer remain in our lethargic po-
sition and should move to a level
of subsidization that would assure
us of a winning team.

This is a view frequently held
by those who want at almost any
costs to produce a winning foot-
ball team and they are willing that
we offer more scholarships ‘and
make the necessary inducements
to get the players here who can
win games.

The supposition is, of course,
that if we get the players, we will
win football games. Now is that
borne out by the facts? The very
truth is that though the recruit-
ment program put on by the ath-
letic office often brings to David-
son players. who have played well
in high school, many of them fail
to remain in school.

There is the other familiar point
that the scholastic standards of
Davidson are so high that the play-
ers who do stay are so buckled by
work that they cannot give their
due to the sport. This is somewhat
the case, and it’s been my personal
observation that the players use
so much of their energy during
the season on the books that they
have lost their potential for giving
their all to the sport,

Far more important than these
practical implications is the atti-
tude among students toward the
players themselves. The air about
Davidson is often one of pessimisni,

By JIM MOORE

of defeatism, and of accepting the
situation for what it sadly seems
now to be. The players want to give
their best, and within their abili-
ties do, but when it seems that
they let their fellow students and
their school down by not winning,
the result is g feeling among the
players of inferiority.

This is not a result found among
all the players, though it has been
found in some and there is the
strong possibility of it occuring
again.

Now let us look at the position
in which we find ourselves. It is
one that is called middle of the
road, and yet we do subsidize foot-
ball and have a rabid alumni sup-
porting group. It is what Dr. Cun-
ningham called an amateur sport
program, and yet the Wildcat Club
is there to condition even this.

by many faculty members, and was
two years ago expounded to me in
a slightly different form by our
“tiddly winks” professor.

“Yes,” said I, “We call the
Chapel Hill kettle black and over-
look our own hue.”

So 1 began investigating and
dug up some facts that led not to
the original conclusion but to ones
that are both enlightening and
suggestive of what the actual situa-
tion is. °

Dr. Spencer, Mr. Martin and Mr.
Payne have supplied much of the
information that follows, and it
must be noted that these three
have not expressed any of the fre-
quent: hysteria and over-apprehen-
sion that often follows a student
request for financial figures, espe-
cially those that concern sports.

From the figures given (note

DAVIDSON'S FOOTBALL FINANCES
WILOCAT CLUS

1950
1951
1962
1953

$30,000
$30,000
$35,000
$35,000

852
684
647

$27,391
$24,322
$26,463

COLLEGE EXPENDITURES

1950-51 Scholarships —.......____
1951-82 Scholarships _._..__

$27,846
_--———------- $25,794

1952-53 Scholarships and Training Table.__._.$24,594
1953-54 Scholarships and Training Table._....$27,720

Where are we? And exactly to
what extent do we subsidize the
sport?

TARMEBL ACCUSATIONS

Recently the University’s student
newspaper, the Daily Tarheel,
shocked its readers by accusing its
football program of being a can-
cer that had only recently overrun
into the realm of public morals by
using state funds for subsidizing
football.

It then occurred to this writer
that Davidson puts itself in the po-
sition of treading on public morals
somewhat when the Wildcat Club
sets it goal, thus triggering the
amount of scholarships that the
college awards to football players.
Then, when the Wildeat Club does
not reach its goal, the college is
morally-bound, as Mr. Martin says,
to make good on the scholarships
it has already awarded.

That is to say, when the Club
does not deliver on its promise to
support the scholarships already
awarded to football players by the
college, the college has to dip into
its general fund to make up the
deficit,

This, I am told, is a view held

box) it can be seen by simple
arithmetic that the deficit up to
the end of 1952-53 amounted to
only $58. Thus is the argument
shot? Well, perhaps, but lets us
examine this year’s outlay.

Presently the college is com-
mitted by $27,720 for football
scholarships and the training table.
We may now reasonably ask what
the prospects are for reaching this
year's goal.

With a winless season thus far,
and by the time you read this the
season will probably be over and
the last game decided, the pros-
pects for reaching the goal are, to
quote Alumni Director John
Payne, “Dim.” Mr. Payne went on
to predict that the club will prob-
ably not raise over $26,000 this
year.

That of course would leave quite
a deficit—$1,788 if just $26,000 is
raised. The same process of off:
setting the deficit by raising more
money by the Wildcat Club would
then be employed as well as cutting
down on the number of scholar-
ships.

Now all this explanation con-

(Continued On Page Four)

Only A Government Which Is Unstable
Must Protect It’s Beliefs By Force

Last week a group of students
met for the purpose of examining
the administrative-student relation:
ship in regards to several problems
which have been foremost around
here for the past few years. This
group—chosen as a representative
cross section of the student body—
articulated those grievances which
have caused the greatest amount
of tension and friction between
the Administration and the stu-
dents, either because of their in-
herent nature or because the stu-
dents felt that they overlapped in-
to activities which were not within
their scope of jurisdiction.

Among the general prob-
lems which were discusced was
the compulsory chapel and
vesper attendance. Chapel espe-
cially has become e@ farce end
should be recognized as such.
it is @ central foes! point in
which the student body vents
its spleen at being required to
attend a daily religious serv-
lee. It is a perenniel revolt
against authority; e minor re
hellion against the enforced
plan of Christisnity which
each man is exposed to each
day. The faculty Is somewhet
hesitant about making en op
pearance in chapel because of
the reception which they gen-
erally are accorded, yet the
discourtesy Is seldom aimed
at the individual professor—
it is almed at the authority
which he symbolizes when he
takes the platform. Gesically,
enforced chapel and vesper at-
tendance has become synony-
mous with e denial of the fun-
damental tenet of Christianity

By RONALD WILSON

thet each man has the right

te choose whether he will ac-

cept a religion, and the method
which he chooses to pursue
thet religion.

Even the usefulness has become
enigmatic now. Rather than create
an atmosphere of worship, it has
become a sounding board for the
antagonism and animosity gen-
erated towards unnecessary regi-
mentation. Last year a program
was conceived to limit chapel to
three times a week and have it as
a simple liturgical service in the
church, but it received little atten-
tion. The YMCA is working on a
similar plan for presentation in the
near future. However, it would
appear that the only way to restore
any meaning to a daily worship is
to do away with required attend-
ance and give the individual the
right to make his own choice. Cer-
tainly no one has seen the Great
Light due to the influence of
chapel on his life, It is pure un-
realism to delude one’s self into
thinking that required religion
ever had any meaning to the in-
dividuals concerned.

Another sublect which got
bandied about was the general
lack ef functioning of
the Student Body
They have se little real
eutherity te make any de
elstens that the offices have be-
come mere figure-heads, filled
ence a yeer by electing the
mest popular men on the cam
pus. What initlative these men
have Is lect in the deerth of
opportunities afforded them to
prectice real leadership. They
may be appeinted te student-

faculty committees In an ef-
fort to give e real velce te the
students; however, men that
have served on these commit-
fees say that the committee
never met, or that thelr ideas
were pigeon-holed end forget-
ten. There is no lever of power-
ful student government te pry
the Administration inte tak-
ing cognizance of the wishes
of the student, and the gentle-
men in the front office have
evinced little interest in roet-
ing out student opinion con-
cerning basic issues.

One way to instigate more pow-
erful student government might be
the addition of politicking in the
spring elections. As they now
stand, a man is elected almost
solely on his popularity with the
four classes in session here. He
has little time to outline his pro-
gram and no opportunity to form
a solid group among the students
who would support his program,
which would give him a better
stand in any faculty-student rela-
tions. One boy said that he never
has voted for any student body
officer; he has simply voted against
the other candidates,

This was the general feeling
ef the group which met the
other night and discussed
these topics, But any group is
powerless te accomplish any-
thing unfees the student bedy
le willing te support ft. if yeu
are interested or If yeu‘ve get
an opinion, cut loose with It.
it will take @ geod deal of
concerted action te budge the
inertlea which faces us.
