FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1953

True drama in the
world of sports, at least
in the Davidson world
of sports, is something
which rarely occurs.
However, last Saturday
down at Clinton, S. C.,
the real thing showed
up in the match be-
tween the Wildcat
racquet - swingers and
the Presbyterian crew.

It was a dismal, over-
cast day and the Pres-
byterian courts were
damp with the inter-
mittent rains of the

orning. The confident
Blue Hose fans filled the bleachers and cars were lined up
along the remaining exposed portion of the fences.

This was a big day for the P.C. rooters for all their op-
ponents Presbyterians love best to beat Davidsonians in ath-
letics. But, the feeling was exactly the same on the Cat side
of the lineup. The Cats were keyed up for that match and
had worked hard in practice during the preceding weeks, for
the sting of the 7-2 trouncing they had taken at the hands of
the Hose some ten days previous still was very much felt.

DAVIDSONIANS DON'T LIKE TO LOSE TO P.C.

Of all the teams on their schedule the Wildcat netters and
the ardent backers of any of the various Davidson sports would
rather see a win over P.C. than any other. The Cat racqueteers
well exemplified that feeling as they literally played like “the
team to beat” rather than the underdog last Saturday.

Several times the matches were halted because of the re-
turning rains and the re-finishing of the courts after each
shower. Each intermission found the Wildcats ahead in what-
ever match happened to be in progress. If the match had been
played through without a break, things may have been dif-

By JOHN HANDLEY

ferent. As it was the netters were in action for four hours from |

two till six. They lost 5-4.

This sounds like the same old apoligizing for the same
old moral victories. However, that is definitely not the spirit in
which this article is being written. Rather, it is written in the
spirit of praise for a job well done.

Presbyterian is acknowledged as one of the stronger
teams in this part of the country and tennis is one of her
big publicity fields. The Cats went into the Saturday meet
decided underdogs after having dropped to the Hose earlier
in season by a considerable margin.

NETTERS DIDN'T PLAY LIKE UNDERDOGS

Saturday the Cats were not the underdogs that the tennis
followers and especially the P.C. rooters thought they would
be. The Davidson team entered the match expecting to win
and almost swept the surprised Presbyterians off their feet.

Lacy Keesler played his finest match of the season as he

_ dropped a close one to the highly touted P.C. No. 1 man Al
Morris, 10-8, 2-6, 4-6. Morris hadn’t been beaten in any set all
season before Lacy took the first set 10-8; Johnny Bremer
played the Presbyterians off their feet as he made short work
of Jerry Hunt and then teamed with Lacy to beat Morris and
Hunt in the No. 1 doubles. Joe Dudley and Corky Clark also
won in the singles downing Bradley and Thompson respective-
ly. ;

Coach McKee told this writer that he had never seen his

boys play like they did Saturday and that he had high hopes
for the Cats in the future if they continue in that brand of
play. He was quick to assert that he claimed no credit for the

Cat surge against the Blue Hose and he had nothing but praise

for his charges.

P.C. goes at tennis as a major sport and in all their pub-
licity and in the attitude of the fans they are expected to win
and win easily. They have come to feel such an assurance in
their tennis squad that when Davidson started beating the
highly touted Blue Hose the place literally went into an up-
roar.

PRESBYTERIAN BECOMING TENNIS SCHOOL

To quote the column of one P.C. sports writer, “PC has
always had a number one tennis team and this year, thanks
to Coach Leighton, the tennis team is one of the best teams in
PC’s history . . . Tennis here at PC is one of the bigger pub-
licity factors of the school. The tennis records are known
through the country and the tours that the teams make at-
tract many people and students to the campus. Let us not
underestimate tennis as an important sport... .”

(Continued On Page Four)

Cotton Cords

SLACKS $5.95
Tan, Blue, Grey

SUITS $23.50
Tan, Blue

Wilson-Wright's
“Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON. N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Tracksters, Netmen See Action Tomorrow

North Carolina Host
For Important Match

By DON PILKENTON

TRA ih

Coach McKee’s netmen are looking forward. to a toug
battle with the University of North Carolina tomorrow, afer
suffering a heart-breaking 5-4 defeat at P.C. last Saturday.

The power-packed U.N.C. team
entertains the Davidsonians with
Southern Conference tennis singles
champion Del Silvia, who is also
number one man, and Southern
Conference doubles champions,
sophomores Brown and Payne.
Brown is currently holding down
the number two position while
Payne is No. 4 on the team..

High Schoo! Champs

A freshman, Bradford is in third
position. The school this year has
helped to ensure a future winning
team by procuring four of the ten
top high school tennis players in
the nation.

Facing such a battery of men as
these, the (ats will have a rough
time coming off as victors. How-
ever, because of their continual
improvement since the beginning
of the season, and the presence of
all their regular team, this match
promises to be a hot one.

Steady-Improvement

An example of the team’s im.
provement may be found in com-
paring scores of the two P.C.
matches played this spring. In the
first match the Wildcats bowed to
the South Carolina Presbyterians
by a score of 7-2. On the other
hand, the second match was much

Winless Wildcats
Wearily Wage War
With The Citadel

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Davidson's “still after that first
win" Wildcat baseballers take to
the road Monday to tangle with the
Citadel’s Bulldogs in Charleston,
S. C. They move on to Columbia on
Tuesday to battle the Gamecocks
of the University of South Carolina.

The Cats took on N. C. State’s
apple-knockers this afternoon in
Raleigh and Carolina's powerful
Tars Heels in Chapel Hill yesterday.

Starting with Monday's Citadel
encounter the Cats meet four South
Carolina clubs in rapid succession.
After being away for two tilts, the
Davidson team meets Furman here
on May 1, and play host to the
University of South Carolina on
May 5. Then they close out the
season with ‘two home contests
against North Carolina State and
Wofford.

Ninth Inning Rally

The McCrary Eagles snuffed out
a ninth inning Davidson rally and
won an 85 decision over the Wild-
cats here Monday afternoon. With
two men on base and no one out,
McCrary’s Causey bore down and
got the next three men to make
easy outs.

The Wildcats scored all five runs
in a big seventh inning. With the
bases loaded Cocky Burdette sing-

|led. Then Buzzy Hope tripled, and

Jim Teeter singled to end the Cats’
scoring. Burdette went the distance
on the mound for the home club
giving up eleven hits.
Duke Too Strong

Last Saturday, the Wildcats ab-
sorbed a 154 trouncing at the
hands of Duke's Blue Devils. John
Smith gave up sixteen base-hits,
including two home runs and four
triples. Duke's Carver held the
Davidson nine to only five hits as
he won his third victory without a

,| defeat. Clapp led the Duke attack | —

with four hits in five trips to the
plate.

The Wildcats have now lost ten
straight contests without a victory,
pending the games played at North

closer and decidedly better played
so that only one match decided the
winner.

In last Saturday’s match Allan
Morris, number one P.C. player,
defeated Lacy Keesler by a score
of 8-10, 6-2, 64. Johnny Bremer
downed P.C. number two man 8-6.
6-4. Joe Dudley set down Bill Toole
60, 6-4, and Corky Clark defeated
Ed Montgomery 6-8, 6-1, 7-5.

In doubles play Davidson lost
two of three matches to the favor-
ed Blue Hose. Keesler and Bremer
combined to defeat Morris and
Hunt 63, 64. Bradley and Mont-
gomery downed Clark and Green
6-1, 6-4, and Dudley and Bivens fell
at the hands of Toole and Thomp-
son of P.C. by a count of 6-3, 6-2.

With the results of the last close
match still clear in their memor-
ies, the Cats will be out Saturday
playing for all they’re worth in
order to keep up the record which
they have made for themselves in
the Southern Conference.

LINKSTERS TO MEET
CLEMSON'S TIGERS
AT CHARLOTTE CLUB

Davidson's golfers will take on
the links forces of Clemson College
tomorrow on the home Charlotte
Country Club course. The Wild-
cats dropped their previous engage-
ment with the Tigers on the Clem-
son course.

The Clemsonians have one of the
better teams in this part of the
country and a real battle should
be on in Charlotte in the morning.
The revenge-minded Cats are out
to even the season’s series and to
better their winning record.

Last Tuesday the Wildcat link-
sters met a South Carolina squad
who had beaten them by some 15
points on their Columbia course.
The Cats pulled the most exciting
upset. the fairway sport allows.
They upset the Gamecocks by a
14-13 count.

Freshman Larry Parrot of Char-
lotte, knowing he had to sink his
last putt on the last green to give
victory to the Cats, calmly poked
a long, downhill 10-footer into the
back of the cup for the sixth Wild-
cat victory of the current cam-
paign.

Mickey Cannon, Tom Abel, and
Larry Parrott won their matches,

(Continued On Page Four)

Wildcat of the Week:

Bremer Was Hot
In P. C. Matches

Last Saturday was a big day in
Davidson tennis circles and’ onc of
the main contributing factors for
the Cats was the performance on
the Presbyterian courts of soft
spoken Johnny Bremer, Johnny has
played a lot of tennis for the Wild-
cats and he is. now completing his
third year of successful competi-
tion.

On the rain-soaked P.C. courts| |

Johnny had what is perhaps the
best day of his career as he downed
the highly touted Jerry Hunt 8-6,
6-4 in singles play and then teamed
up with Lacy Keesler to down the
No. 1 Hose doubles team of Morris
and Hunt 63, 6-4.
McKee Praises

Bremer played a sparkling brand A

of tennis with the hustle, aggres-
siveness, and assurance of a true
champion. His performance was
highly praised by coach Dick Mc-
Kee as Bremer's best of the cur-
rent campaign.

During his freshman year Johnny
played in the No. 1 position, but
has played No. 2 since his old rival,
Lacy Keesler came to Davidson last

(Continued On Page Four)

THIS IS GOING
To BE THE BEST
CREW Wee

[ Only Tene will Tell. { will / Only Lime will Tell... {

Carolina yesterday and at North
Carolina State this afternoon.

Dutch Rejoins Moors

After June Discharge

Dutch Hengeveld, former David-
son basketball] and baseball star,
will soon be shedding his kikis in
favor of a baseball uniform. Henge-
veld plans to return to his mound
position for the Mooresville
“Moors” when the army gives him
his walking papers in June.

Hengeveld while here at David-
son was a regular guard and was
noted for his deadly set shot which
was a real headache for Cat op-
position. On the mound for the
Cats he was a regular starter and
one of the most effective of the
staff.

He is the son of the registrar for
the college, F. W. Hengeveld.
Dutch won 12 for the Moors in his
first season.

JOHNNY BREMER
Really Pounded Hose

-\X wow! rp ROW
DOWN THE RIVER.
WITH THEM
ANYTIME!

Mie. s .

WE OUGHTA
A = =WIN THE
a REGATTA!

Seek Revenge Over Gamecocks
As $.C., Citadel Invade Local Track

By ANDY TURNER

Coach “Pete” Whittle’s thinclads face the power-packed South Carolina Gamecock
tracksters and the strong Bulldogs of the Citadel in the season’s first triangular meet on
the local track tomorrow afternoon. The Cats will be seeking revenge for the thirty point
thumping they received at the hands of the Gamecocks last weekend. The meet will begin
at the usual 1:30 P. M. for the field events and 2:00 for the remainder.

Phi Delts Leading
Inferfrat Tennis:
Softball Underway

The Inter-Fraternity Softball
Season got off to a fast start last
Tuesday afternoon. Five out of the
six scheduled games were played.
The game between the. SAEs and
the Pikas was post-poned.

In the two days during which
the season has been underway,
the trend, with a few exceptions,
seems to be toward slug-fests at
the expense of the pitchers, with
quite a few errors thrown in. How-
ever, with a little more experience
and practice under their belts the
teams will probably find these pro-
blems to be less and less evident.

So far only two games have been
post-poned. The SAEs and the
Pikas game on Tuesday is to be
played at a later date, along with
the Betas’ and Campus Club’s
Wednesday game.

The tennis season continued this
week as usual. All but one game
was completed with the game be-
tween the Phi Gams and the KAs
being post-poned. The previously
undefeated Campus Club was
—~aman | downed by the Betas in a make-up
™ | game.

Here are the softball and tennis

Last weekend the Cats bowed
to the strong Gamecocks 81-50.
The Gamecocks also hold a similar
victory over Citadel having beaten
them and N. C. State in another
triangular meet.

In winning last weeks meet,
South Carolina, led by Bobby
Drawdy, swept 12 of the 15 first
places. Drawdy took first place in
the 100 and 220-yard dashes and
javelin throw.

Homer Sparks, Tim Gilley, and
Roy White took Davidson's three
first places in the, 2-mile run, dis-
cus, and broad jump respectively.
Phil Koonce was high point man
with three seconds for nine points.

Both Bill Shipley and Bob Henry
slipped from undefeated ranks,
Shipley placed second behind Wil-
cher of South Carolina in the 440,
and Henry ran third behind two
Gamecock runners in the 880. The
mile relay team also met its first
defeat in four starts.

The Cats will be striving to get
back into the win column tomorrow
afternoon against the Citadel and
U.S.C. The focal thin clads got off
to a fine start by whalloping Roa-
noke and Mercer University; they
then dropped a close one to Clem-
son and then bowed to the Game-
cocks.

South Carolina has possibly one
of the best teams in the Southern
Conference. They presently hold
a 5-1 win-loss record with victories
over the Citadel, Mercer, Davidson,

FUTURE HOOPSTERS
OPEN SPRING DRILLS
UNDER MILLER

By DICK LILES

Although it is not quite in sea-
son, basketball is the word down
at Johnston Gym these afternoons.
Coach Danny Miller is holding
spring practice for the hoopsters
and has twelve eager boys out
working.

Coach Miller is stressing defense
in these early drills using George
Melton at center, Hobby Cobb and
Buddy Brown at forwards, and Ray
Harding and Ed Weeks at guards.
He says the drills are progressing
well although he has only 12 to
work with and has to wait for Ish
Bennett and Graeme Keith, who
are out for other sports.

Lose Only Three

The only losses off last year’s
team were that of Captain Joe Dud-
ley, the leading scorer, and J. V.
(Horse) Howell. They both will be
lost through graduation. Jerry King
who dropped out of school early
after the second semester started
is the only other loss to this year’s
squad.

Coach Miller has been contacting
some fine junior college men this
winter and is happy over the pro-
spects. Since they are really the

standings through Wednesday's} ¢. State, and University of|only men who can help him. he
games: Georgia. They lost to Duke in an has concentrated on recruiting

Softball early season meet. some JC material. He can not be
KAs_ 2-0! Citadel will also come here with |Sure of any of the men yet due
Sig Eps . --—- 20] 5 strong lineup. They routed Fur-|to college requirements and lack of
Pikas —. .. -———— 10/man 99.32 last week and finished | Scholarship funds, but is pretty
Phi Delts ————-— 10/five points behind N. C. State in|Pleased with prospects. .
Phi Gams ~~ ss 10/9 triangular meet (South Carolina] Other men who are looking good
Pi Kapps" —- 11) was first). in early practice are Jim Faucette,
Compas th _ a1 Davidson also should give a bet-|4PPY Fowle. and Perrin Anderson.
SAEs __ 0-1 ter show than they did last week ee
Betas __ 0-1 | against South Carolina. The Game- Lenoir-Rhyne Squad
ATOs 0.2| cocks meet was the second in three Visits | Cind
Kappa Sigs 0-2| days for the Cats. sits Local Uinders

oo After tomorrow's meet, Davidson] Lenoir-Rhyne College’s track

Tennis will take on Furman and Washing-| champions of the North State con-
Phi Delts -. 6-0|ton and Lee in another triangular | ference worked out with the Wild-
Sig Eps _... . 5-1] affair and will close out the regular | cats on the local track last Tues-
Kappa Sigs . —- 4-1| season with N. C. State on succes-|day afternoon. Though no actual
Campus Club a+ 3°1 | sive weekends. Both of these meets | meet was run, various time trials
ATOs - 2-2} will be run on the local track.|in most of the events were held.
Phi Gams __ —...... 22]/On May 15 the Cats will travel to] The L-R tracksters have no home
KAs -. sesieneeeeeeee 23/Durham for the annual Southern] track of their own and participate
Betas __.._.. =... 1-2] Conference Meet. in only two organized meets during
SAEs .........§ —~ 1-3] Phil Koonce, startling freshman, | their season. Although track is not
Pikas .W.. .-.. . 24{remains top point man for thejone of their major sports they
Sigma Chis 1-5| Cats with 35. Roy White is right| managed to take the conference
Pi Kapps 0-5| behind him with 32. meet.

HOW CAN THEY TELL SO

SOON? THAT COXSWAIN

MAY SWALLOW
HIS MEGAPHONE!

Oh tine will tell about a green
crew! And only tine will tel abouta
cigarette! Take your time...

THERE MUST BE A REASON WHY Camel is
America’s most popular cigarette—lead-
ing all other brands by billions! Camels
have the two things smokers want most
—rich, full flavor and cool, cool mildness

-- pack after pack! Try Camels for 30
days and see how mild, how flavorful,
how thoroughly enjoyable they are as
your steady smoke!
