AY, APRIL 8,
THE DAVIDSONIAN FRID, RIL, 3, 1968

ROTC 32s PLACED |O°% Send Two

The ROTC Department announc- To National Meet
ed recently the placements of this} Omicron Delta Kappa, national
year’s ROTC 32 class, in accord- Ite aaa honer society, will hold

eral pro- regular bien: convention in
ance with its branch general pro) voke, Virginia, April 16, 17,
and 18. Headquarters for the meet-
ing will be in the luxurious Hotel
Roanoke,

The Davidson College ODK cir.
cle will be represented by Pro-
fessor Goldiere, who is the alumni
adviser, and Mac Bulgin, who will
serve as official student repre-

PAGE FOUR
SENIOR SKETCH NO. 4

Caution and Dignity:

If you have some spare time on q
your hands first thing in the morn-

ing drop by 204 East and you may
get there at feeding time. You'll
see little bottles of all shapes and
sizes — green ones, brown ones,
clear ones — and all with pills in
them that a man eats. Some are to
grow hair and lubricate the finger-

By Mike Myers

Avery Jones

ime. | has a theory that candlelight is

bad for your complexion, and has
joined the Army so he won't have
to worry about the future. But once
his caution backfired.

This happened on the Florida
trip at tHe dog races. As the night
progressed Avery paid no attention
to the races because he was study-

gram.

Adjutant General Corps, Chem-
ical Corps, Corps of Engineers,
Medical Service Corps, Ordinance
Corps, and Signal Corps each got
one member of the junior ROTC
Class.

Two men will go to both the
Transportation Corps and the

«

nails. Some guard against distemper ing the form for the last big race. sentative. f
and tapeworm while others counter- Finally, after checking the weights, ouenem joing cores none coup Other representatives are ell- ‘ by ia a

balance insufficient charcoal con- } times etc. he bet on his choice/ 14 nine others to the Artillery.|Sible, but because the meeting date y iW vy,

tent in the human body. To run for the race. His hound broke well! tye remainder, some thirty men,|coMflicts with that of the Spring epe “| z,

down the complete list would be, ™ |took a few steps, stumbled to his| .i1 pe placed in the Infantry upon|Frolics, many of the members of ~ ah y/ ;

like citing a medical journal. The} “# | knees, rolled over, then lay down) jaguation from Davidson. this circle had already made other 4 / ey

man never says a word . . . just | pas ,|on the grass and watched the other plans. i Th v7
pops them in his mouth and swal- dogs run around the track. ri ;

lows. All the while his roommate But sucn musnaps are care in Baker Scholars Spaniards Conduct Reh stretch out, Ce

“
(Continued From Page One)
«

DRT
COC Me

¢ .
looks on in amazement. this well-calculated life. Jones has ae
rf P. . !
The one that isn’t saying any-: pearartate a Pee dally too son, Miss., editor of the school cule interhade te ewptiee to for the big Glee Club ; ao
circulation fauure by a Pro- / lite magazine and of the An- : , |
nig se sone ie refuses cess at Yogi exercises involving nual, vice-president of the Pres-|Play a very difficult number on tour is ahead. Work and worry call i a
ing coffee, but from that moment rapid shaxing he the pene hans byterian Youth Fellowship of Cen-|® atten te einer had subsided for a pause—so, relax... Vo , wat
and feet. as earned him the|¢ral Mississippi Presbytery, and an fresh with ice-cold Coke. ca v

on it’s a 33% RPM record run at
78 RPM.

Avery's life seems to center
around an innate desire for secur-
‘ity. ‘Caution’ is his key word, and ~ _ “
his life is governed by the Boy! One of Davidson’s 900 socially
Scout motto. The vitamins are only| oetite. -
a part of it. ‘ ;

somewhat Charlie Hooper demon-
strated his skill in handling the
Spanish language and ‘consequent-
ly took the Premio Gordo.

To finish off the occasion in
grand style Gregory Dimijian
polished the ivories with his ver-
sion of “Malaguena”.

nickname of ‘Shaky’ along with
his rather obvious one, and the
more quotable ‘vitamin.’

Avery has had a long and varied
love life .. . he terms his type
“platonic lover.” Currently he is
spending a few nights a week at

A student who has also been regu-
larly employed during the year.
Davidson College Honor Scholar-
ships were inaugurated this year
to supplement the Baker Scholar-
ship program. These scholarships
are worth up to full tuition for
four years, and were awarded to:

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N C.
Soha” ie © registered trade-mark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Take the trunk of Avery's car as
an arbitary example. In it is a
$110 outboard motor he bought
during the holidays in Florida.
Now the point is Avery doesn’t
own a boat, doesn’t have a friend

that can lend him one, but in case
he ever finds a boat or wins one
Avery will be ready for it.

Avery has moved his bed away
from the radiator for fear that it
might be struck by lightning. He

VITA-CRAFT SALES DIRECTOR COMING
FRIDAY OFFERING JOBS TO STUDENTS

The possibility of jobs, either
part-time or summer vacation em-
ployment looms for students of
Davidson College when the nation-
al sales director of the Vita Craft

Corporation pays the campus a vis-
it on Tuesday of next week. He
will be in Room 209 of Chambers
Building at 3:30 p. m.

Plans Laid By Committee

The advance agent for the or-
ganization was on the campus last
week, and he pointed out that his
corporation will offer students a
chance to make as much as $100
per month for part-time work dur-
ing the school] year and up to $75
per week during the summer with
all students who will take part-
time work guaranteed summer jobs.

(Continued From Page Two)

departments of the college and student organizations will meet in

September to draw up a tentative
school year to be published in the
will be added during the year. All
activities should be listed in the log

master schedule of events for the
Davidsonian. Monthly suppliments
organization functions and college
of events kept by Mr. Smith at the

College Union. If an organization plans an event on a particular day they
can fefinitely see the number of other activities that are to be held on
that day and will possibly desire to choose a better time. —F. H. Sec'y.

Queens proving ‘his platonicity by
taking his date in the parlor and
playing parlor games by the hour.
Their favorite is “logic”, a game
where you try to guess what the

other is thinking — or something. | Chattanooga, Tenn., and the Mec.

They say he’s a whiz at it, too.

McKee’s Team
(Continued From Page Three)

team came Wednesday when
Johnny Bremer suffered a badly
sprained ankle in his match against
Charlie Ufford of Harvard. Bremer
went on to finish the match
and win, but he may be lost to the
team for several days.

The company also offers a scholar.
ship plan that will net from $1
to $250 per year. .
It was pointed out that exper-
ience is not necessary, since each
person employed will get a com:
plete training course. The repre-

sentative also stated that persons| Juliet, and The Sleeping Beauty,

doing well this summer will also
have jobs through the next school
year if they desire. He stated that
75 per cent of the regular sales
force of the company today started
work while in college.

THICK AND THIN YARNS
GIVE AIRY “SCREEN-WEAVE”
COOLNESS TO....

SPORT COATS

of Crisp, Smart

Be casual and carefree in VARSITY-TOWN’S Water Mill tweed sport coat.
Styled in the popular 2 butten model with side vents, ticket and flap

pockets — 35.00.

Contrasting slacks to go with your sport coat. . . tropical worsteds, sheen
gebardines or worsted flannels. All popular colors — 13.25 to 20.00.

TRE LABEL OF DISTINGTION
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Button-dewn collar
sport shirts

3.95 to 5.95

Michael Fennegan, Fairmont, N.
C.; James G. Martin, Winnsboro,
S. C.; William F. H. Page, States-
ville, N. C.; Alvin P. Perkinson,

Callie School.

Saturday Movies.
(Continued From Page One)
25; and “Bridge of San Luis Rey”
on May 9. The movies, as well as
the other events, are sponsored by
the social committee of the YMCA.

Additionally, in compliance with
students’ request, the Union has
recently purchased a large number
of classical records. The Union
will be glad to have suggestions
about record purchases, and will
get the records when possible.

Among the new albums are:
Beethoven's First and Second Sym-
phonies by Toscanni, Tchaikovsky's
Nuteracker Suite, Romeo and

Scheherazade, and many other fine
works.

The Free Lance
(Continued From Page Two)
edaisicel, it’s because they see |

the hopelessness of making a

number of idealistic promises

and have heard the same emo-
tive terms quite a number of
times.

Too many times to be moved to
exceptional enthusiasm by boyish
zeal glazed with this idealism. It
takes more. We forgot for a mo-
ment. This is Davidson. That is
the Davidson man. Who else could
fill the job, but a Davidson man?
Where in the alphabet would you
like us to start naming?

Overal! Standings

(Continued From Page Three)
SPEs 30
Phi Gams 21
Sigma Chis 21
Pikas 1-2
Betas 12
SAEs 1-2
Kappa Sigs 12
ATOs 1-2
Pi Kapps 03
Campus Clubs 03

Tennis
Phi Delts 20
Kappa Sigs 20
SAEs 10
KAs
Betas —._ 2-0
Pikas 11
ATOs 60
SPEs
Campus Clubs _..._...._. . O1
Phi Gams OO
Sigma Chis 02
Pi Kapps 02
Cindermen
(Continued From Page Three)

200 yards — Mitchener, Breeden,
Koonce.

440 yards — Shipley, Howell,
Alexander.

«880 yards — Henry, Jenkins,
Reed.

One mile — Russell, Joyner,
Sparks.

Two miles — Feeney, Turner,
Gooding.

Low Hurdles — White, Morris,
Robinson.

High hurdles — White, Robinson.

Pole vault — Poston, McNair,
s

peed.
Broad jump — White, Huffaker,
Koonce.

Shot put — Lazenby, Petree,
Peterson, Long.

Discus — Lazenby, Petree, Peter-
son, Gilley.

Javelin — Gilley, Coe, Hoover,
M

ann.
Relay — Howell, Henry, Rus-
sell, Shipley.

=n IF YOU CAN WIR

THESE WINGS YOU CAN EARN OVER
9,000 A YEAR AFTER GRADUATION

Important facts about the opportunities for YOU
as a Commissioned Officer—Pilot or Aircraft Observer—

in the United States Air Force

Must be a college graduate to take Aviation Cadet Training?

No. But you must have completed a minimum of 60 semester
hours or 90 quarter hours toward a degree. In addition, under
the new Aviation Cadet training program, you must be be-
tween the ages of 19 and 264 years, unmarried, and in good
physical | condition—with high requirements for eyes, ears,

How long before | get my commission?

60 calendar weeks. You will receive the finest aviation training
in the world—training that not only equips you to fy modem.
military aircraft but prepares you for executive and administra-
tive work as well. At the completion of your training, you will
have acquired a commission as a 2nd Lieutenant and the
coveted silver wings of the United States Air Force.

Where do ! take my training?

Pre-flight training will be at Lackland Air Force Base, San
Antonio, Texas. Primary, basic and advanced training will be
taken at any one of the many Air Force bases located throughout
the South and Southwest.

What happens if | flunk the training course?

Every effort is made to help students whose progress is unsatis-
factory. You can expect extra instructions and whatever indi-
vidual attention you may require. However, if you fail to
complete the course as an Aviation Cadet, you will be required
to serve a two-year enlistment to fulfill the minimum requirement
under Selective Service laws. Veterans who have completed a
tour of military service will be discharged upon request if they
fail to complete the course.

What pay do | get os an Aviation Cadet? And after?

As an Aviation Cadet you draw $109.20 a month pay. In
addition, you get summer and winter uniforms, flight clothes,
equipment, food, housing, medical and dental care and insurance
--. all free. After you are commissioned a 2nd Lieutenant you
will be earning $5,300.00 a year—with unlimited opportunitice
for advancement.

Are all Aviation Cadets trained to be Pilots?

No. You can choose between becoming a Pilot or an Aircraft
Observer. Men who chooee the latter will become commissioned
officers in Navigation, Bombardment, Rader Operation, or
Aircraft Performance Engineering.

at ot

Do Aircraft Observers get flying training, too?

Yes. Aircraft Observer Cadets receive approximately 200 hours
of “in the air” instructions. The primary phase of Aircraft
Observer training is the same for all branches (navigation,
bombardment, etc.). The basic and advanced phases of training .
' vary, depending on the specific course you pursue.

What kind of airplanes will | fly?
You will fly jets. The Pilot Cadet takes his first instructions in
a light, civilian-type plane of approximately 100 horsepower,
then graduates to the 600 horsepower T-6 “Texan” before
receiving transition training in jets. You then advance gradually
until you are flying such famous first-line aircraft as F-86 Sabre,
F-89 Scorpion, B-47 Stratojet, B-60 Superfortress. Observer
Cadets take flight instructions in the C-47 Dakota, the T-29
Convair, and the TB-60 Superfortress before advancing to first-
line aircraft such as the F-89 Scorpion, B-47 Stratojet.

Will my commission be in the Regulor Air Force or Reserve?
Aviation Cadet graduates, both Pilots and Aircraft Obeervers,
get Reserve commissions as 2nd Lieutenants and become eligible
to apply for a regular Air Force Commission when they have
completed 18 months of active duty.

How long must | remain in Service?

After graduation from the Aviation Cadet Program, you are
tendered an indefinite appointment in the United States Air
Force Reserve and are called to active duty with the United
States Air Force for a petiod of three years,

What recreation and leisure time will | have as a Cadet?
Discipline will be rigid—especially for the first few weeks.
However, it is not all work. You'll find swimming pools, handball
courts, movies and other forms of recreation on the post.

Where will | be stationed when | get my commission?

You may be stationed anywhere in the world ... Hawaii, Far
East, Europe, Puerto Rico, elsewhere. During your tour of duty,
you will be in close touch with the latest developments in new
flying techniques. You will continue to build up your flying
experience and later should have no difficulty securing a CAA
commercial pilot or navigator rating.

Your future is assured if you can qualify! Here's what to do:

| Take a transcript of your college credits and a copy of your birth certificate to your nearest
Air Force Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you,

2 If application ie accepted, the Air Force will arrange for you to take a physical

examination at government expense.

3 Next, you will be given a written and manual aptitude test. an)

4 If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an
Aviation Cadet training class. The Selective Service Act allows you
a four-month deferment while waiting class assignment.

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS

Visit your nearest Air Force Base, Alr Force Recruiting Officer,

or your nearest Air Force ROTC Unit. Or write for

AVIATION CADET, HEADQUARTERS, U. S. AIR FORCE

Washington 28, D. C.

7
STS \

AR PROC RR
. aul Sa ORC

Sr
NEE

