THE HOT DAVIDSONIAN
Largest Summer Newspaper That We Know Of

Ji 30, 1953
OES YOUR BACK ACHE? STUDE: 0

Do you feel tired, overworked, rune For those who are not familiar with
down? Don't be too alarmed other David- the Student Government organizations and
sonians have had the same symptons. No, its function on the campus at Davidson,
we are sorry we can't guarantee a cure here are a few words of explanation. The
for this dread disease but we believe theStudent Council's three primary duties are
best remedy would be a COLD SLICE OF "to receive, prefer, and try any cliarges
WATERMELON. J against a student for vi6lation of any

Come and see if onrs:remedy does not provisions of the Constitution", e.:.
give youa lift, The time 8:00 pem at cases of cheating, drinking, stealing; to

the Union. investigate anjurious rumors on campus;

WE AIM TO PLEASE and "to strive toward the gmprovement cf
e Social Committee for this term conditions on campus",

will be Bill Shipley, Chairman, Charlie The members of this Summer's Student

Johnson, Guy Hunt} and Will Terry. If Council, who were elected by council mem-
you have any sucgestions for activities bers of the regular school session are as
to stimulate our secluded life, let one follows: Stan Topple-President, Bill

of the committee Imow and we!ll--------- McAllister, Bill Bryson, John Ford, Charles
try to do it. Murray, Bill Nelson, Ralph Petree, Bill
"WE AIM TO PLEASE" Shipley, Alan Sparks and Grier Williams,
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
NOTICE Dear Editor:
There is no suggestion box in the Union I am in firm belief that those who
but don't let that stop you, just come were in summer school first term will go
in the office and talk it over, along with me when I say that the social
committee should be commended, During
NOTICE the first term there were many activities

planned including the watermelon feasts
The College Union will be closed from and Davidson's first attempt to hold a
10:00 poem. Friday, July 31 until Monday, dance in the Union during the summer,

August 2. No meals will be served in I think that our thanks should be
the Cafeteria Saturday or Sunday, The awarded to the two persons largely respone
Cafeteria will reopen for breakfast sible for the planning - Alan Sparks and
Monday morning, Bert Downs.

Personally, I think that they were
brave to accept such an undertaking; and,
on behalf of the students who appreciated
it I say, “Oréhids to you, Alan and Bert'"}

ReP. '5h.

TALK OF THE TOWN

There is a little green Chevrolet crying for an owmer. No, it is not that no
one will buy it, everybody wants to buy it. It is getting to be such a struggle
to see who the winner will be that the Administrative wing has a noise similar to
the Kremlin - I?11 put my money on Hele

Montreat seems to be the destination of many Davidsonians for the lone week=
end. Could the 4 to 1 ratiom be the reason?

Thanks to benevolent Uncle Sam eight of the fellows returned from the salt
mines of Belvoir, Sill and Benning's School for Boys, The motto of these dens
of iniquity is "We have gone all out for troop misery",

If you can add to this gossip column let us know, we just love scandals.
