PAGE TWO

7 e e 9 one
Week Night Social Activities?
Since the completion of the College Union the possibility

of Student organizations sponsoring social functions there
during the week has arisen.

At present purely social gatherings are largely taboo
at Davidson on any night except Saturday. Fraternities are
also forbidden to schedule official functions during the school
week.

Naturally difficulties arise in rulings such as this in re-
gard to what, exactly, constitutes a social event, and what
does not. Recently an honorary fraternity which had scheduled
a joint meeting with a similar group from Queens was denied
permission to hold a period of informal dancing in the union
ballroom following the meeting on the grounds that such
action would constitute a social function. Coffee-drinking and
chit-chat however, received administration endorsement.

The drawing of such a fine line of distinction as this ap-
pears on the surface, at least, to border somewhat on the
ridiculous. But it actually points up the need for revision ot
the present rules on social gatherings in the light of the
addition to the campus of the Union. In this case the ad-
ministration was merely attempting to enforce to the best of
its ability the present regulations. Conceivably, an even stricter
interpretation of the present rule might have been given.

A change in the rules on social functions is certainly with-
in the realm of possibility. There seems to be little pre-
disposition either on the part of the faculty or the administra-
tion to forbid social activities at the union during the week
merely for sake of tradition or discipline of the student body.

The chief bone of contention appears to be the fear that
such activities would interfere with the proper preparation of
school work. Now, this may be just the other side of the same
coin, but we do not think so.

If we as students really want a change on this issue we
can get one if we are willing to convince faculty and ad-
ministration that we are ready to assume the responsibility
of preparing school work no matter what is taking place on
the campus.

There are those in the aforementioned groups who feel
that they should be responsible for seeing to it that there are
no distractions from studying at Davidson, or as few as pos-
sible. They feel that education is the foremost factor in college
and they are absolutely right in this latter respect.

The opinion that introducing social functions, even on a
limited basis would create obstacles to learning is a definite
possibility, but not an absolute truth. In our opinion it is the
responsibility of the individual student to prepare his work. If
he fails, he and he alone is responsible. The Davidson man
should be mature enough in matters of such import to make
his own decisions and take the consequences whatever they
may be. The faculty member should not feel at fault if a stu-
dent fails because he chose to go to a get-together at the
union, or to do anything else, rather than study. It is the stu-
dent who makes the decisions and he is the one who suffers
if he knowingly makes the wrong one.

The learning of responsibility is an important part of
education, and the college man should be learning to forsake
tempting pleasures when more important duties call. If he
does not do this he will never reach maturity.

We do not advocate bringing unlimited social activity to
the campus on every week night. Some restrictions will natur-
ally be necessary. There are few who would tolerate turning
the union into a country club on a night-to-night basis. But we
can see no harm in relaxing the present regulations to the
point where it would be possible to make use of the excellent
ballroom and other facilities on more than one night out of the
week if the occasions arose. It seems an economic waste to
restrict their use so severely.

In fact, such a relaxation of the rules could conceivably
make for the concentration of student life in the college com-
munity. We are making no startling revelation when we say
frankly that there is no small amount of “goofing off” both
on campus and off, during the week and on weekends at
Davidson. Davidson students put in more than average time
on the books, in comparison with students of other colleges,
‘but there are few that study, or actually need to study more
than four hours a day. The temptation is to spend the extra
time at the local flick, in Charlotte or elsewhere.

In our opinion it would be infinitely better to offer in-
centives in the form of social activities during the week oc-
casionally, so that students who had already prepared the
next day’s work would spend their time here in wholesome
recreation rather than elsewhere in perhaps less healthy
environmental «::ccumstances.

College is primarily a place to study . . . to do some hard
sweating over the books. A lot of that is done at Davidson.
There is also, and should be some leisure time for recreation.
We can think of no more healthy circumstances to spend our
spare time than at an informal coeducational social gathering
in the ample surroundings of the College Union. Occasional
social functions during the week need not interfere with our
primary purpose if we are willing to accept our responsibility
in the matter.

If the administration and faculty will see fit to give us
a chance, we believe we will be able to see this point proved.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

Moody Smith

Charles Hasty

Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell,

Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney

en John Handley

News Editor — Austin Strand Feature Editor —. T. A. Williams

Art Editor Don Mahy Photographer ——. Andy Simons
Assignments Blake Brinkerhoff

Asst. Business Manager Ed Nicholson

Advertising Manager - Tommy Taylor

Cireulation Manager Dick Little

Collections Manager Tommy Douglas

Mntered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1807.

CABBAGE PLANTER:

In Spring

Fancy Turns To. ... Summer

A warmhearted and appreciative
band’ of Davidson College students
raised grateful voices in an even-
ing-long tribute to friendship Mon-
day.

The hours-long demonstration of
gratitude started twenty-miles away
at this county's only four-year
men's college, and wound up —
as such ceremonies will —at Char-
lotte’s Queens, the area’s only four-
year college for women.

An humble handful of students
early in the evening grew into an
enthusiastic crowd of well over
100 youths who tried in vain to
repay the Queens student body
for their generous year-in and year-
out unrelenting proximity. They
were joined by scores of tear-
choked city, county and state police
to whom also, the demonstration
meant so much.

Authorities agreed the demon-
stration was spontaneous and could
be attributed only to youthful
thoughtfulness and a pent-up grati-
tude which has been building up
in Davidson men’s hearts over the
years.

It was Dr. C. C. Jernigan, presi-
dent of Queens, who misinterpreted
the grateful outburst. “Exuberant,”
he called it. “Roisterous, too.”

Seeking earnestly a way to show
Dr. Jernigan their sincereity, the
exuberant roisterers hit upon a
plan, as they termed it later, “to
warm his skeptical reserve,” with
cold soft beverage.

As the doubting president hesi-
tated, the thankful pilgrims
mounted the steps of South Hall
dormitory, motioned to gain atten-
tion, then said quietly:

“All right, Dr. Jernigan, you've
been fine; now let’s gp down to
the snack bar and we'll all buy
you a Coke.”

The crowd then surged to snack
bar, and after a cold drink and a

OUTSIDE WORLD:

Among the letters in our incom-
ing mail this week we found this
terse note from Queens. The letter
also contained a diagram of the
Queens campus showing favorable
and unfavorable locations for an
“attack” similar to Monday night’s.
This diagram was very complete
even to the pinpointing of certain
windows which would be left open
in the event of a raid.

Other Davidsonians were also
recipients of mail from Queens
among them Lyman Kiser who re-
ceived a pair of black silk ? 7? 7 ?
from an unnamed source. Owner
may call at the desk of the Student
Union.

This letter does not necessarily
represent the opinion of the David-
sonien or its editors.

Desr Davidson Gentlemen,

Congratulations! We didn’t
know you had the nerve. Bet-
ter luck next time. If at first
you don’t Succeed, try try
egain.

P.S. Inelosad Is the layout of
the campus,

" THAT ONE ooghP=eo- 8£ Gemrd For A TRIPLE ”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

A Davidson Man’s

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

few administrative “Well, I don’t

know. . . ’s” it was all over, includ-

ing the doubting, about 11 p. m.
Reealis Meccan Jaunts

The demonstration was reminis-
cent of the annual pilgrimages to
Mecca staged by Mohammedans,
and excursions to the shrine of St.
Thomas a Becket celebrated in
early English Book-of-the-Month
selections. .

Last night’s crowd's objective
was clear to all but once-bitten
Queens authorities. Their incen-
tive, pious Thanksgiving, was some-
times shrouded, however, and at
times even rejected even as the
so-called “panty raids” of recent
years. '

A grateful committee briefly
gained entrance to a girls’ dormi-
tory, but left immediately when it
appeared that the hour was too
late for social calling. “We were
so thankful,” said a spokesman,”
that “I’m afraid we just didn't
look at the clock.”

thankful the average motorist is.

was just youthful enthusiasm.”

fect Presbyterian gentlemen.”

Whether you are a seasoned
player, or one who aspires to
a better game, put your

faith in the Spalding Kro-Bat
or the Spalding-made Wright
& Diteon DAvis Cup.

These are the traditional
favored rackets wherever fast
tennis ie played. Made in
overall weights, grip sizes
and flexibilities, to fit every
player with custom-like
accuracy.

They are perfect companions
to the Twins of Championship
tennis balls...the Spalding
and Wright & Ditson.

At Davidson, it was reported that
a small group started the excursion
in a voluntary long chapel after
supper, and working through hall
prayer leaders, enlisted student and
professional help in the dormi-
tories and one of the local theaters,
briefly halting traffic to see how

Davidson College President John
R. Cunningham, who quickly op-
posed the suggestion of Davidson-
Queens consolidation in Hunters-
ville, expressed relief that no con-
crete steps were taken along this
line. “I'm glad it didn’t grow into
anything serious,” he said, “. . . it

At Queens, students had all left
campus as the result of an emerg-
ency three-day holiday when firet
reports indicated the delegation to
be a rambling and raucous band
of N. C. State arithmetic majors.

One of them said later: “Oh
fiddlesticks — they were all per-

é

THE FREE LANCE:

Hollyypod lynch-mob stoppers or
by the fact that they were not in
the thing from the start is of no
importance — the fact which we
must recognize is that a small seg-
ment of the college tried to quell
the mob Monday night, and made
fools of themselves in so doing.

Perhaps there was an image in
one man’s head — an image of a
water-drenched student body presi-
dent standing before the yelling
mob one night telling its members
to go back to their rooms (after
most of them had so done prior
to his amateur theatrics.)

Deep in every man possibly
there is some urge to be a
hero, but that urge is not
enough. One must be a hero at
the proper time end in the pro-
per way. As it was there were
ne grounds on which te appeal
to the rioters inasmuch as they
had no determined purpose.

One man heard two local stal-
warts say that there was no use
destroying a hundred years’ reputa-
tion in one night. Aside from the
immediate absurdity of the state-
ment it might be worth our time
to examine the nature of a reputa-
tion.

is it a living tte, a device of
20th Century propagenda? Or
rather is it not the impression
in @ great many minds as to
the characteristics of some
given feature of reality? It is
@ varying impression, but is it
basically true or false?

For the last several weeks there
have been a gfeat deal of discus-
sion and argument concerning the
feeding of the freshmen next year.
Of course, the Student Union would
profit Davidson by serving in this
capacity and apparently this cen-
tralization of the process of satis-
fying the thricedaily fvod-con-
suming habit for first year stu-
dents would aid in building toward
a firmer class unity. This seems
quite logical.

However, there is being raised a
tremendous hue and cry from the
boarding houses ‘round about.
“We'll go broke!” wailed one of the
matrons of these institutions into
the ear of this author. Facing the
seemingly stark and bitter facts of
the matter, there will be a large
depreciation in the number of
boarders due to the lack of fresh-
man eaters in safd establishments.
Thus, those who maintain the pri-
vate eating works claim that there
will be such a great deficit in
funds that, “We're all gonna’
starve!”

Cheer up, ye cooks and boarding
house managers. You over-stuffed
students can smile also, for we
have the solution for the entire pro-
blem. One of the major expendi-
tures in our boarding houses is
that of meat. Behind the meat
counters everywhere, butchers are
becoming bankers as they demand
more and more per pound for

’ By JOHN OTTLEY

FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1953

Protectors of “Reputation”

Make Their Usual Showing

Whether inspired by years of, pose of some few here at old David-, You date her and find to your

son, Zion of North Mecklenburg,} amazement that she has a keen

to attempt to mislead the public
into thinking we are the best of
possible schools amidst the worst
of possible younger generations.

In so being we are alone quali-
fled to make a thole out of an
ordinary young man.

Of course a deluded society is
calling for moles on the assump-
tion that, though they be clogged
with undigested morals, they are
at least better than the amoral
youth which roam our nation and
quietly gnaw at its moral fiber.

The truth hurts and we have
sensitive nerves. It is only the
most fundamenta! of reasoning
which shows us in a flash that
if a riot hes been taking place
here for the lest two springs
the student body is potentially
riotous.

One can call it “youthful ex-
uberance” or childishness or what-
ever one chooses, but the fact is
there nonetheless. Furthermore it
is of facts that reputations are
made of. Our reputation is not
what ge are not.

The same holds for the fect
that the Union is falling short
in its collections for coffee
end doughnuts, despite epil-
grammatic reminder notes and
hints of forgetfulness. The fact
is there thet Davidson is not
a nest of impeccable honesties.
Reputations are such damnably

superfictal things. You hear a girl’s

By D. H. OGDEN

Several reputable boarding-house
economists completely agree that
their budgets could be placed on
an even keel if the cost of meat
could be cut out entirely.

We believe that if all of the
stray canines were rounded up and
divided proportionately among the
eating clubs, the resulting meat
supply would hold out easily for
the next two years. Actually, the
only obstacle standing in the path
of such a proposal is inhibition on
the part of Davidsonians to con-
suming and enjoying dog meat.

Let us assure you more timid
souls that you have already tested
this delicacy in several forms. Do
you know what goes into sixty-
eight percent (Trot Poll) of all
hamburgers in this country? Have
you ever seen “hot dogs” made?
Do you ever wonder what makes
up the carniverous conglomeration
served you in restaurants as “the
chef's specialty?”

Yes, doubtlessly you have tasted
and relished this excellent form of
meat. Therefore iniagine having
porterhouse Collie, fillet of Dach-
shund, or Terrier av gratin. What
could be more taste-tempting that
Airdale a le king or Cocker a fa
mode? Fried, baked, broiled, or
stewed, the canine would become
the finest of meats and the utmost
in eating pleasure. And even for
breakfast, we would be enjoying
the new,

bacon, hamburger, pork, and steak. |(Gourmets would go wild.)

bite-size Chahuahua.|] 212 W. Forth

mind and a sweet personality. You
hear of a family’s reputation and
then see the most prominent son
arrested for maintaining a brothel.
Why must we always be
fooling ourselves ebout David-
son? Why make the schoo! out
to be so vastly much more
than it is? Perhaps it is ea
basic trait in Americans to
think in terms of all perfec-
tion and no failure.

This is quite nice and reasurring,
but sadly unrealistic. It is such a
blunt and unperceptive way to
think. In the final analysis many
of us do not think al] things work
together for the nice, but what
throws us off is that we are trained
to think instinctively in the over
optimistic vein.

But all of this aside, those
Plucky souls who made an ef-
fort to halt the marching stu-
dents are those who have got-
ten the real core of the college
indoctrinated in their hearts.
They ere unsung, but they
know within that they alone
were right and the rest were
“just an awful disgrace” as one
put it. .

We wish the college could single
them out to send a personal note
to each of the crusaders, but to
be a real martyr one must remain
unrecognized. If we were in favor
of martyrs, we would list some
names, but they too often make

It seems to be the ridiculous pur-| got a reputation for being fast.|such dull copy.

OGDEN DISCOVERS “SOLUTION”
FOR FROSH EATING PROBLEM;

In addition to solving the pro-
blem of the approaching board-
ing-house collapses, and in addition
to adding innumerable taste-tant-
alizing treats to our tables, this
extermination of Davidson’s dogs
would add all the proper solemnity
to our chapel programs, which seem
to be continuously interrupted by
uncalied-for yips and yowls. Numer-
ous faculty members have com-
plained of these distracting in-.
fluences which are attracting more
and more class window-gazers. One
has even stated that the school
average for the spring semester
could be raised one whole point
by the elimination of the Davidson
canine element. Even our good -
PMS&T is heartily in favor of such
a movie in leu of the extra hoard
of dogs which invades the Tuesday
drill field. The Colonel complains:
“They just can’t keep in step and
they never shine their brass.”

If such a plan is carried through
in our boarding houses, I too shall
join the ranks of such mighty men
as Bernarr McFaddon, Sir Staf-
ford Cripps, and George Bernard
Shaw.

NEW CARS

DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF

Dial 3-4513

Charlotte

g, 4/

Ny

\f

a

——
—

WwW

call for Coke

Everything’s in high gear at May Fete time
a +++ keeps you on the go.
Good idea is to pause now and then for a Coke.

GOTILED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N ¢.

“Gila” bb « reghtered waloawls

© 1962, 1s coca-coun COMPANY

