PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

Frank Hanshaw

Jack Hobson

Joha Ottley

Brinkley, Harter, Hope,
Myers, M, G., Moylan, D.H.
Hassett, J. M. Moore, Owens
Dick Roper

Feature Editor—T. A. Williams
Assignments—Strand. .

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSISTANT EDITOR

Associate Editors

Managing Editors

Sports Editor

News Editor—D. M. Smith
Arts Editor—Mahy
Photographer

Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager

Nicholson
Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davideon,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

A Challenge For 1953

Along with the rest of the world, Davidson students are
faced with a new year 1953 and a feeling of uneasiness and in-
security as to the future. There seems to be no immediate solu-
tion to the pressing problems of the world about us. With che
steady pace of mobilization and the not too colorful aspect of
two or more years of military service, it would seem that there
should be a general attitude of hopelessness and “‘what the hell”
type of thinking prevalent among the students.

But even if the situation is one of uncertainty, the type of THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

attitude mentioned should certainly not be adopted if we expect
to succeed in solving the problems facing us whatever they
might be. We must face 1953 with an even stronger faith in
God, confidence in this nation of ours to mect the crisis, and
courage to meet the many tasks that will arise.

We are quite familiar with the phrase—if there is any-
time when clear heads and resolute action is needed, it is now.
And that is meant not only for our political leaders and people
generally, but it particularly pertains to college students.

Our job right now is to put to good use the opportunity
that has been granted us for gaining education and training at
Davidson. Our leaders have recognized the great need for college
trained men and have made it comparatively easy to obtain de-
ferments. We can only deserve such an opportunity by using it
in a manner for which it was granted. To do less is failing to
meet our challenge for 1953 and the future.

An article in the current issue of Redbook gave this thought
about the future:

“Our trust in the future has been forged in the fires of our
past, for we have known dark moments and have always risen
above them. This year of 1953, with its threshold of hope and
threat, is a strange anniversity year for young Americans. It's
a time in which to remember the trials that have given us our
strength.

“Look back for a moment to 1923 when a foul monster
named Hitler spewed out the germs of World War II with his
Munich Beer Hall Putsch. This abortive revolt changed the
lives of all of us, but we survived the change.

“In 1933, this same Hitler became the Chancellor of Ger-
many, thus opening an era of bloodshed and sacrifice. This has
been a proving ground for young Americans. 1933 was also
marked by troubles in our own land—a depression, usiemploy-
ment, poverty, desperation. We came through it though.

"We came through it to find ourselves, in 1943, at war
with Germany and Japan. There were 15 million young Ameri-
cans under arms scattered all across the globe. We won our war.
God willing, we'll keep on winning.

“And now it’s 1953. There should be no trembling over
what lies ahead. Young Americans will regard the future as a
challenge, because that's their nature. By meeting every challenge
the past has hurled at them, they are prepared for tomorrow.”

CHARLOTTE NEWS:
Little Davidson Tops The Goliaths

Davidson College has done it again. History Senior Hubert N.
Cannon’s selection as a Rhodes scholar brings to 10 the number
of Davidsonians who have won the coveted Oxford scholarships.
That is a record that no other university in the state, and few
in the South, can equal.

Recently Davidson has produced Rhodes scholars with al-
most perennial regularity. Charles T. Davis went to Oxford in
1950, Joseph J. Murray in 1951. John Victor Hunter of Wins-
ton-Salem, a finalist for this year's scholarship, missed out in
the final selection, but won a Morehead fellowship.

The extent of this scholastic accomplishment is realized
when one puts together a few statistics. Thirty-two Americans
are chosen annually, after rigid, exhaustive, nation-wide tests, as
Rhodes scholars. In 1950, 1,560,392 men were enrolled in
higher schools of learning in this country. So one man (men
only are eligible for the scholarships) out of about every 49,000
students wins the award each year. Davjdson., where the en-
rollment once reached a peak of about 1,000, now has 828
students.

Thus, if the law of averages maintained, Davidson would
soon be due for its first Rhodes scholarship of the century. That
it has instead produced 10 since 1903 is proof a-plenty of -its

consistent production of well-rounded scholars. For Rhodes
scholars must be all-around individuals. Cecil Rhodes, the

British statesman-explorer who set up the scholarships, decreed

Son, Your PET DUD WuiLE You wad Away

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Civilian Test

How Tough Is Enough?

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS
Pauline now no more was there;|a definite yes or no when they

She burnt from pantalette to
hair, .

But in the place where she had

been

A heap of ashes could be seen.

August Henrich Hoffman.

We of the poker and ice hockey
sex don’t spend much time with
the women's cosmetics ads. How-
ever we who date the sex that does,
might have done well to have scan-
ned a recent two-page effort by the
makers of Revlon Lipstick in the
November 10 Life.

Designed “for you who love to
flirt with fire . . . who dare to
skate on thin ice...” the ad asked
“What is the American girl made
of? Sugar and spice and every-
thing nice?” and then answered
“Not since the days of the Gib-
son Girl! There’s a new American
beauty . .. she’s tease and temp-
tress, siren and gamin, dynamic
and demure. Men find her slightly,
delightfully baffling. Sometimes a
little maddening. Yet they admit
she's easily the most exciting wo-
man in ali the world. She's the ‘Fire
and Ice’ girl.” Then in parantheses
they add, as an after thought,
“(Are you?).”

I haven't dated any girls that
sizzled and froze lately but it may
be the coming thing, and worth
investigating.

They offer fifteen questions to
determine one's relative fire and
iciness, The quiz is much hke
Reader's Digest “How to Inérease
Your Word Potency” drills, only
aimed, obviously, at another social
virtue.

For protection, as I say, we
ought to know what the women-
folk are reading, and be ready with

Determines:

pop Question No. 11, “Does gypsy
music make you sad?”

As a public service, we've chosen
eight of the advertisement’s ques-
tions for slight revision in the
First Annual Davidsonian Quest
for the Pipe Smoke and Absorbine
Jr. Man.

(1) “Have you ever danced with
your shoes off?” This one must re-
veal something.

(2) “When a recipe calls for one
dash of bitters, do you think it’s
better with two?” Seriously, how
many men can cook?

(3) “Do you secretly hope the
next woman you meet will be a
psychiatrist?” “Hope” isn’t exactly
the word.

(4) “Have you ever wanted to
wear an ankle bracelet?” With a
chain?

(5) “Do you think any woman
really understands you?” “Think”
is a poor word choice here, too.

(6) “Would you streak your hair
with platinum without consulting
your wile?” My wife, yes, but not
without a word or two with my
banker,

(7) “TE tourist flights were run-
ning, would you take a trip to
Mars?” And get freshman cuts
again?

(8) “Do you close your eyes
when you kiss?” It’s hard to tell
about your eyes, but it’s a good
idea to slam the door with your
foot.

If you can honestly answer
“yes” to at least eight of these
questions, then you're made for
Pipe Smoke and Absorbine Jr.

Keep up with your woman. Wear
PS and AJr. tonight. See what a
difference it makes.

AN OBITUARY

On Sunday, January 4, Wooglin I went to dog heaven where
he can dream of chasing rabbits all day and probably never catch

them.

He visited this life only long enough to hang up one Christ-
mas stocking, and as champion barkers go he was a failure . .
white, floppy ears, and his ten weeks old legs all out of proportion.
But he didn't mind. All Wooglin asked of life was a few square
meals and an occasional pat on the head—maybe a rub behind the

ears. In return he gave his best,

always his best. His life seemed

dedicated to proving the old saying that man’s best friend is the
dog, for Wooglin knew no stranger. And he knew no fear of the

brown car.

Writing about a Davidson dog is not a new angle. Many D. C.
mutts have wandered out onto the football field, stopped the game,
and thus stumbled into newspaper fillers. But Woogliu’s poten-
tialities seemed unlimited. He, alone in the canine world, was the
first to participate in & basketball game, helping the JV’s beat

Kannapolis YMCA, 63-52.

His stay on our campus was short, but pleasant. His memory
on our campus will be long and pleasant.
Wooglin is survived by 816 students.

—M. G, M.

pathy for the protection of the weak .. .” and leadership quali-

ties.

So, our congratulations to the new Rhodes scholar, and

REPORTS:
Trustee Group,
Faculty Meet

At the January 6 faculty meet-
ing, elections were held for faculty
standing committees. New mem.
bers elected are:

Executive Committee: (no eligi-
bility rules) Ex Officio: The Presi-
dent, The Deans of the Faculty
and Students; Group chairman:

THE FREE LANCE:

FRIDAY, JANUARY 9,

1953

Stop Shying From New Writing,
Feel Pulse of Modern Thinking

It is both interesting and * dis
heartening to see how far many
students of English here miss what
is a good attitude toward what they
read. A belief in authority and the

Languages: Professor Lilly; Nat-jpattern is very pronounced on this
ural Sc Aces: Professor Puckett;| campus, but one cannot successful-
Sciences: Professor Work-]ly prescribe a pattern for litera.

man; Faculty at Large: Professors
McCutchan, Purcell, Kimbrough.

Curriculum Committee: (mem-
bers from faculty at large must be
full professor) Ex Officio: The
President, The Dean of Faculty;
From Groups: Natural Sciences:
Professor Reid; Social Sciences:

ture.

Por example a man reads
a novel and registers an un-
favorable opinion of it because
it did not follow the pattern
of previous novels he had read.
He complains that the work is
disorganized. What could be

Professor Johnston; Languages:| more disorganized than life it-
Professor Cumming; Faculty-at-| self? Should everyone write
large: Professors Puckett, Griffin,| precisely as his readers want

Pietenpol.

Committee on Student Health
Service and Physical Education:
(no eligibility rules) Ex Officio:
The President, The College Physi-
cian, The Director of Athletics:
Faculty-at-large: Professors Mc-
Gavock, Abernethy, Johnston.

Baker Scholarship Committee:

(Continued On Page Four)

him to do?

In making 4 critical statement
about any book one must seek to
determine not how much the author
succeeded in coddling the reader,
but how well he expressed what
he was attempting. That is not the
sole criterion for judging literature,
but an essential one.

At Davidson many phases of

By JOHN OTTLEY

our lives are presented in neat-
ly packaged form. Our morale
are more or less prescribed,
our study habits, many of our
ideas, because of this perhaps
we grow accustomed to the
package.

There is no process of under-
standing involved, but only of ac-
ceptance and memorization. As a
consequence we shudder at a revolu-
tionary style in anything—conver-
sation, painting: or writing. “We
don’t understand it!’ we say.

Surely we cannot be so de-
luded as to think that life in
contemporary society will be
packaged. It ig a moving thing,
hard-hitting. One cannot re-
main rooted in and hope to
keep up with its thought. One
need not surrender to its des.
pair or nihilistic tendencier—
that much Davidson can do for
us, but: we must not allow it to
make us worshippers of the
rut.

There are many who having | again headed homeward.

found some outstanding opiate, can

honestly say they are not interested
in keeping up with contemporary
ideas. These men have already
died—they are shells waiting ont
their appointed years until some
failing of the flesh destroys the
mere chemical substance left.

Only a few years of productive
thought are enjoyed by most men,
and already we have dipped into
the store. Let us be quick to ab-
sorb some of the wildness of the
modern writing and some of its
introspection and bluntness rather
than shy from it because it
previews 2 black and dismal bat.
tleground of man’s mind and soul.

A Southern Tragedy

Whether Davidson  casanovas
like it or not they are definitely in
a bad position as far as romance
ig concerned. With only periodic
freedom to dwell in the sparkling
company of girls there is a great
tendency to go all out for a sweet
thing and then harbor memories of
her in the ensuing month until

”

(Continued On Page Four)

ARE YOU TOUGH ENOUGH FOP

Can you “take it” 6 days.a week? For 52 weeks? Can
you meet the high standards required to be an Avia-
tion Cadet? If you can—then here’s a man-size oppor-
tunity! An opportunity to serve your country and
build a personal career that will fit you for responsible
positions both in military and commercial aviation.

It won't be easy! Training discipline for Aviation
Cadets is rigid. You'll work hard, study hard, play
hard—especially for the first few weeks. But when it’s
over, you'll be a pro—with a career ahead of you that
will take you as far as you want to go. You graduate
as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Air Force, with pay of
$5,300.00 a year. And this is only the beginning—

‘To

your opportunities for advancement are unlimited.

ARE YOU ELIGIBLE?

To qualify as an Aviation Cadet, you must have come
pleted at least two years of college. This is a minimum
requirement—it’s best if you stay in school and gradu-
ate. In addition, you must be between 19 and 26%
years, unmarried, and in good physical condition.

YOU CAN CHOOSE BETWEEN
PILOT OR AIRCRAFT OBSERVER

If you choose to be an Aircraft Observer, your train-
ing will be in Navigation, Bombardment, Radar
Operation or Aircraft Performance Engineering.

New Aviation Cadet Training Classes Begin Every Few Weeks!

HERE'S WHAT TO DO:

9. Take a transcript of your college credits and a copy
of your birth certificate to your nearest Air -Force
Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application

they give you.

2. If application is accepted, the Air Force will arrange
for you to take a physical examination.

3. Next, you will be given a written and manual apti-

tude test.

4. If you pass your physical and other teats, you will

be scheduled for an Aviation Cadet

Class.

The Selective Service Act allows you a four-month
deferment while waiting class assignment.

Wher € fo get nore det ails @ Visit your nearest Air Force Base or Alr Ferce Recruiting Officer.

to the institution and faculty members who helped shape his
development. May he follow the distinguished traditon of other
Oxonians from Davidson, men like Dean Rusk, president of
the Rockefeller Foundation and former Assistant Secretary of
State; the Rev. Benjamin R. Lacy, president of Union Theo-
logical Seminary; Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of Co-
lumbia Theological Seminary and president of Davidson's board

that recipients “shall not be merely bookworms,” but be chosen |ipf.trustees. Little Davidson may bow to the gridiron Goliaths,
because of literary and scholastic attainments, success in “manly [but it produces outstanding all-around students in numbers that
outdoor sports,”” qualities of ‘manhood, truth, courage, sym- should make the big education mills wince with envy.

OR WRITE TO: AVIATION CADET HEADQUARTERS, U. S. AIR FORCE, WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

9 so.
fog 4 -_ ™~
Oe Via bate,

>
a

Us. A

LORG

Se

oY Em
Sey
