PAGE TWO

Bad Manners Are
But Not Excusable

The student body of Davidson College often likes to
think of itself as being pretty sophisticated. It has outgrown
the use of certain words which were all right for Sunday
School, but which just don’t mean anything to college men.
It can, for instance, find a great deal of humor in a speaker's
reference to Davidson students as “gentlemen”; it can be
pleasantly amused at the naivete of her definition of the word.

Explainable,

It finds any serious reference to the hackneyed old term).

“honow’ just a little too much to take with a straight face.
These two words, which may have once carried a great deal
of meaning, are now dead and gone, and the ideas they used
to convey are left searching for a new place to sit down.
Meanwhile we are snug in our sophistication.

But not entirely so. For where imagination fails sophis-
tication breaks down; and when we can’t think of an effective
way tof register disapproval of compulsory chapel, we are
reduced to the rather naive expedient of forgetting our man-
ners. Bad manners can be explained but not excused; a breach
of good manners is the result of ignorance or lack of concern
for human personality. And when there is not even a practi-
eal reason for the breach, there isn’t much left.

To speak plainly: our bad manners in chapel are gaining
us nothing but a rather wide reputation of not being able to
behave as well as most high school student assemblies.—R.S.C.

Council Interprets Honor;

All Work Considered Pledged

In line with the recent emphasis of the Student Council
on personal honor, The Davidsonian publishes below Section
2 of the Article on the Honor System in the Student Body
Constitution, together with the resolution passed by the Coun-

cil in regard to its interpretation.
Though recently we questioned the wisdom of the

present interpretation of “any other pledged work” and still
consider our criticism valid, we wish to commend its spirit
and that of the Council in vigilantly seeking to guard what
is probably the most essential part of the Davidson tradition.
Section 2: “Every student shall be honor bound
to refrain from cheating either on recitations, re-
views, examinations, or any other pledge work.”

Whereas the spirit and purpose of the Honor System,
including this section, is for the protection and preservation
of honor at Davidson, the Student Council interprets the
phrase “any other pledge work” to mean any written work
handed in to a professor as one’s own work. The only ex-
ceptions to this statement are cases in which the instructor
shall specifically announce that the work in question is not to
be considered pledged. The Student Council recommends
that the customary Honor Pledge be used on pledge work, or
simply the word “Pledged” and the student’s signature; but
the Council does not consider these words essential for
work to be pledge work. In making this interpretation, the
Student Council acts on two premises: first, that the term
“cheating” refers to any deliberate and willful attempt by a
student to deceive an instructor in order to receive a better
grade or to give aid for such a purpose, second, that such a
concept of plain honesty ought to be bounded by any legalisms
or loopholes which may be fabricated to thwart the spirit of
the Honor System. The Student Council earnestly requests
the cooperation of the faculty in eliminating any vagueness
or misunderstanding concerning the Honor System by mak-
ing specific announcements to their students when any work

is to be written.

Newsweek Comes Through

Many of the popular magazine articles on college life,
especially in the more lurid periodicals tend to play up the
college generation as thrill-mad and hell-bent for destruction.

It is refreshing to see in one of the foremost news week-
lies, Newsweek, an attention-holding, but nevertheless, sane
and sober coverage of a representative portion of college
students. The current edition of Newsweek, now on sale at
newsstands, without a doubt presents one of the most real-
istic attempts to interpret the aims, interests and pastimes of
the American undergraduate that we have ever seen.

Newsweek sees the typical collegian as a person who is
still able to have a good time, but whose deepest interests are
in the more lasting pursuits.

Drinking, sex, studying and politics are included among
the topics that are handled frankly but with discretion.

In preparing this report, Newsweek interviewed students
at seven representative institutions: Vassar, Northwestern,
U.C.L.A., Howard, Georgetown, Princeton and Georgia Tech.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ! Moody Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Eéltors

Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
John Handley

ern
‘Austin Strand Feature Editor . T. A. Williams

News Editor —.
Editor __... Ed Price Photographer —— Andy Simons
“ Blake Brinkerhoff .
Ed Nicholson

TO Taylor
Circulation Manager ————___—________—_ Dick Little
Collections Manager ———_______—-—— Tim Cooper
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

I1D4ON

THE DAVIDSONIAN

€.

a a

F ne

Everysooy neaps THs Domipsonan

- OO S/N oro

rr
a a
ee

NX
b

ay

Permanent Farm Subsidization

Unfair To Other Tax Payers

Back in 1928 before this genera-
tion’s Davidsonians were born, a
newly elected senator from the
predominantly agricultural state of
Minnesota stated when he came te
Washington: “I am here primarily
to lead the farmers up to the
Treasury trough.”

To say that the farmers of
America have succeeded in find-
ing their way to the “Treasury
trough” would be a masterpiece of
understatement today. The farm-
ers presently enjoy a subsidy from
the taxpayers like no othet eco-
nomic group in this country. And
yet when they are caught in to-
day’s cost-price squeeze just like
everybody else they want still more
from the government in the way
of high, rigid price supports.

Why Are Farmers Privileged?

The farmers have been subsi-
dized in America for so long that
most of us don’t even give the
matter a second thought. But it
seems to me that when they clamor
for more subsidy when the tax-
payer is already faced annually
with a higher bill from Uncle Sam
than ever before in history, it is
time to consider why this one
group is entitted to such a con-
tinuing prop from the rest of
society.

Government intervention into
farm problems began as far back
as 1929, in the dark days of the
Great Depression when emergency
measures were vitally necessary to
keep the farmers on their feet.
This developed further into a reg-
ular government policy in 1933,
when the New Deal began to pay
farmers for net producing so many
crops in order to prevent the glut-
ting of the market by those in-
dividuals who sought to find their
way out of their dilemma by pro-
ducing more.

Now Permanent Policy

But what started out to be an

emergency measure began to de-
velop into regular government
policy in 1938 when the New Deal
government decided to make out-
right price-support purchases of
dairy products, vegetables, fruits,
and other farm commodities. And
this policy has been continued
down through the war days (when
it was not even needed) to the
present time, so that most of us
don’t even think anything about
it.
. Thus we can see that what
started out to be a temporary
erutch has become a permanent
prop, at.a high cost to the Ameri-
can consumer-taxpayer.

As a college senior and a city
dweller, I do not pretend to know
all the ins and outs of the prob-
lem or even to be very close to
the problem itself. But it seems
to me that all of today’s college
students—who will, after all, be
the taxpayers of tomorrow—should
be concerned with this continued
high subsidizing of one economic

group in the country.

Farmer A Businessman

The farmer is basically a busi-
nessman, just like the manufactur-
er or the store owner. But what
happens when any other business-
man incorrectly evaluates con-
sumer demand? When he falls to
make a profit, or at least break
even, he is forced out of business.
Nobody is going to give him a sub-
sidy so that he can continue in

By DICK ROPER

business, when it is obvious his
service is not desired and/or
needed.

But this is where the farmer is
set apart from any other business-
man. When he has raised too big
a potato crop and the market pricé
is forced down, the government
pays him the difference between
the price he gets from the whole-
saler and “parity” (defined by
Webster as a “balance between the
prices received by the farmer for
his products and the prices he has
to pay for labor and for equip
ment, necessities, and comforts.”)

Resources Not As Mobile

It is certainly true, as the farm
spokesmen maintain that the
farmers’ resources are not nearly
as mobile as those of the manufac-
turer or the store owner, and that
it would take a lot longer and be
much more difficult for him to di-
vert his resources to another line
of work than it would the former
two types of businessmen.

This argument is a good one for
temporary aids to farmers who are
in bad shape, but as your sopho-
more economics book will tell you,
“by maintaining an artificially high
price for farm products, resources
normally lacking in mobility are
further encouraged to remain in
agriculture.” In other words, in-
stead of being convinced he should
go into another line of work when
he loses money, the farmer is con-
tinually given a yearly reprieve

by the government in the form of
subsidy.
Competitive Solution

The competitive solution of
course would be to let some of
the country’s farmers, in view of
the low return from their efforts,
be forced into other occupations.
But as long as they have the bless-
ing of the government—or rather
the politicians who are the Gov-
ernment—they will continue to live
off the taxpayer.

The situation, then, is this:
there are too many farmers in
America today, producing too
much. Therefore the price is low,
and the government makes up the
difference between this price and
parity. And in the process, the tax-
payer is getting the raw deal of
the artificial situation.

It is evidently too much to hope
that these high, rigid price sup-
ports for farm products will ever
be discontinued, and any more
reasonable and fair policy be sub-
stituted. But it Is to be hoped that
voters and taxpsyers of America,
who by now are used to partially
subsidizing the farmers, will at
least let the Administration know
how they feel on the subject when
such groups as the cattlemen make
a pilgrimage to Washington to get
more aid in the form of price sup-
ports. Temporary aid in the form
of loans and disaster relief funds,
yes; but permanent subsidization,
a very firm no.

EXCHANGE NOTES:

Blind Man’s Bluff

Provincialism has moved in—and with what a vengeance
—on the University of Maryland.

Dean of Men George Eppley, in a new quest for con-

formity on our contemporary, has destroyed several hundred
copies of Maryland’s student newspaper, the Diamondback.
This is a courageous extension of a trend which seems to have
become fashionable in the American publications atmosphere
—the trend of censorship. The State Department, of all
groups, started the ball rolling this summer; now, in the
Maryland instance, it seems to be snowballing. First it was
the burning of books. Now the burning fad has lit upon
articles and pictures for newspapers.

As The Daily Tar Heel understands it, the battle at
Maryland began when the Diamondback and its editor, Miss
Elin Lake, planned to publish a picture showing an empty
seat at a student council meeting, and a story about the
dean of women’s being connected with a traffic violation.

But Mr. Eppley and his dean of women stamped out the
revelations.

We do not believe censorship in any form is permissible
or advisable. For that matter, neither did those gentlemen
who wrote “Congress shall make no law . . . abridging the
fr@edorn of the press.”

We hope Miss Lake keeps her quill sharp and her ob-
jectives true. And may the offended Mr. Eppley and the
dean of women show a greater understanding of the public’s
right to know.—Daily Tar Heel.

Cawze For Thawt

There.are educators who tell us that students whoo cum
to college are hampered in ther thinking becawze they have
spent too mutch time just lerning to spel. These same educa-
ters say our langwidge shud be simplyfied in its speling, so
that everyone wud have an eezier time of it.

We agree. If our teechers had not spent so mutch time
on speling and sutch things, we culd have lerned more about
esthetics and culture and the like.

May we suggest that those in Olde South who are pade
to consider sutch things consider sutch things—Daily Tar Heel.

a a a SD
SS SS
—

OFF-MOORINGS:

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1953

“Courteous, Truthful, Reverent,
And Above All, Honorable...”

“Courteous, truthful, reverent,
and above all, honorable”’—these
words described for Emily Butler,
our visiting Woman's College
speaker in Wednesday's chapel, the
gentlemanliness of the Davidson
students. These are high ideals and
represent a way of thinking about
ourselves that is not infrequently
misinterpreted.

It is often supposed that merely
by being at Davidson, one imme-
diately has bestowed on him those
qualities of honor and integrity
that we so frequently are told we
have. Nothing quiets the chapel
service more than dor a speaker
to pat the student body on the
back and tell us what good fellows
we are.

There is an outright acceptance
of our goodness that reveals our
over-willingness to believe we are
better than we are. Nothing could
possibly be more natural, for we
do like to hear good things said
obout ourselves. But do we deserve
these attributes? And do we live
up to what is said and supposed
of us?

Dr. McGavock, in a chapel
speech last year, made the obser-
vation that we express ourselves in
a wide variety of gentlemenly con-
tacts, soctal and intellectual, in
the classroom and out. He went
on to say, however, that taken to-
gether there is a great lack of
gentlemanliness among students,
especially in chapel.

There are a few who see us for
what we are. Many another
example of our lack of considera-
tion for others and what must be
called outright childishness are
available.

The morning of Homecoming,
Saturday, October 17, some
pranksters were having their full
delight as they went up and down
the halls of several dorms shout-

By JIM MOORE -

ing, “Get up fellows! Beautiful day
out today. Ought to get up and
see the bright sunshine!” The
calls between the dormitories serve
to let off the steam of pressure
built up studying. This is also de-
signed as the perfect way to end
other men’s quiet and study.

Dr. Blackburn on Sunday night
said, “What we are is what we do.”
Using this as a criterion of logical
judgment, where then do we find
ourselves?

Does not the assumption of our
goodness point its way to the in-
creasing revelation of our “think-
ing better of ourselves then we
ought to think?” Isn’t that another
way of saying we are hypocritical
in our self-understanding?

We ought to recognize that we
are still young—generally between
seventeen and twenty-one years
old—that we are undergoing the
powerful tests of studies, life away
from the security of home, and the
necessity of proving ourselves with-
out outside support. Being youths
we have youthful inclinations and
are in all likelihood more unre-
strained, more influenced by our
emotions, and more idealistic than
other segments of society.

The point is. that we should
recognize ourselves for what we
are. Let us see our position for
what it is rather than letting the
dictates of what Davidson once was
or is now supposed to be blind us
to the realization of our present
situation.

It would be far wiser perhaps
to say, “There is among the Da-
vidson students gentlemanliness in
every sense of the word. There ts
courteousness, truthfulness, rever-
ence, and above all, honor.” All
these qualities are found in vary-
ing degrees in all students, but not
fully exemplified in any one and
certainly not typical of all.

HOW MATURE ?

Closely allied with the subjects
already dealt with is that of the
maturity of the Davidson students.
Much has been said and written
about this maturity ranging from
attacks on childishness to the as-
sumption that all students are ma-
ture and have arrived at their peak
of development.

Now maturity is relative, and
there is no quitk and easy way
of determining whether an_ in-
dividual or a group of individuals
is mature or immature. Some char-
acteristics of maturity are defina-
ble for determining the question
and can be applied to our situa-
tion.

The important thing among stu-
dents is not so much to be ma-
ture before a person’s age permits,
but to be making progress in the
right direction and to achieve a
reasonable correlation between the
calendar age and the rest of an
individual’s development.

It may be expected that some
discrepancy between calendar age
and relative maturity is normal,
provided that it is not too pro-
nounced.

Maturity depends in part on
habit patterns, in part upon the
physiological and psychological
equipment with which an individ- .
ual is born and the growth pattern
by which it develops.

Most important of all is the de-

-sire to be mature. This requires

that we realize our inadequacies
and try to overcome them' in the
light of this analyzation.

This is not intended as a full
analysis of Davidsonian maturity.
It takes in only some of the peri-
pheral areas of the subject, sug-
gesting possibly that there Is
a broader basis for discussion than
the snap judgments of the past
bave implied.

WHY NOT REGIMENT HONOR?

Davidson College has the repu-
tation, at least within a two block
radius of Chambers, of being a
prep-type school, a school where
conduct is dictated from above
and enforced by a group of popu-
larly elected policemen, known as
the Student Council. This has been
true for many years in several
areas of student life. Compulsory
chapel attendance has been re-
quired by the school administra-
tion, and attempts to maintain
decorum therein have been led by
the students’ choice. In the area
of drinking, the dictum is imposed
by the administration and by tra-
dition, and the Student Council is
relegated to the often embarras-
sing status of an inquisitor.

Prior to the incumbent council,
however, there was one field in
which the student made his own
decision. That was in a particular
section of our renowned honor sys-
tem, specifically the cheating
code. To be convicted of cheat-
ing undoubtedly has been the
blackest mark that® could be im-
posed on the record of any David-
sonian. Why should one be so dis-
honored when caught for cheating
when the equally punishable of.
fenses of gambling or drinking do
not carry such a stigma? Perhaps
the main reason that the student
body regarded this offense to be
so serious is that the student had
to deliberately perjure his honor.
Before the New Interpretation last
spring, a student was guilty of
nothing when he copied an answer
from some one else’s paper. He
made himself liable to expulsion
when he signed the pledge on such
a piece of stolen work. Simply, it
was impossible to break the honor
code in regard to cheating with-
out making a premeditated de-
cision to lie on one’s honor and
thus risk being expelled. For the
few who have done it, it must have
taken a lot of guts to write the
pledge on a piece of work that
was not entirely his own.

Honor was a positive action on
the part of the student, but since
last spring’s ruling that all work
is automatically pledged unless
exempted by the instructor, com-
pliance with the honor code is
forced upon the student who has
no choice to make. Honor has be-
come negative. I am not saying
that previously a student could
cheat and not suffer a penalty. But
prior to last spring, at least theo-
retically, the instructor would re-
quest that a paper be pledged if
he so desired, and an unpledged
paper would be graded zero. Zero
would seem to be a sufficient pen-
alty for someone who has cheated
in a moment of weakness but who

By MALCOLM WILLIAMSON

has not gone so far as to Jie in
an effort to receive unearned
credit. Now -this right has been
taken from the student by its own
officers, perhaps acting freely, per-
haps not. Now there is but one
penalty for cheating regardless of
how immediate might be the stu-
dent’s regret. In order to cheat,
it is no longer necessary to watch
one’s conscience. It is only neces-
sary to watch those who might
see you.

It is for this reason that there
is drinking among the Davidson
student body, whereas there has
been a negligible amount of cheat-
ing. The student who wants to take
a drink does not feel that he is
tearing down the honor system
which he has been taught to re-
spect. He does not feel this be-
cause he has no part in the en-
forcement of the anti-drinking
regulations. He is not compelled
to make an affirmative statément
that he has not taken a drink as
he once was required to swear
that he had neither given nor re-
ceived aid. If he wants to take a
drink, he feels that he must only
be careful of who might see him.
Will this become the case when
one has the urge to get an answer

from someone else? It could easily
become so since the conditions of

THE YO UNG

each type violation are now the
same.

Thus far I have beep discuss- |
ing honor as the principle involved,
affirmative honor versus assumed
compelled honor. But this ques-
tion also has some very practical
applications. What about a short
essay on some problem in history?
Can two students cooperate on get-
ting the relevant information from
the book? The professor may have
said nothing about the paper being
considered pledged work. It may
not even be designed to be handed
in but merely for class discussion.
Under the New Interpretation a la
Kiser this paper would be under
the honor system even if the pro-
fessor did not care whether it was
individual work or not. And the
students would not be given the
privilege of refusing to sign the
pledge. They would be just as
guilty of cheating as someone who
stole a page out of someone else's
exam and added it to his own. And
what about laboratory courses?

It is when there is such con-
fusion of right and wrong easily
possible that a system of law be-
gins to break down. This confusion
is apparent now in the classes of
many professors who still ask for.
the written pledge, though it is

(Continued on Page Four)

MEN’ SHOP

OF MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Is Happy to Announce Their

Fall Showing of the Latest Styles In
College Fashions '

-_ At —

The Student Union

ON TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY

NOVEMBER

3rd and 4th

Registration On Both Days!

A Drawing Will Be Held Wed. at 10:30 p.m.
PRIZES GIVEN AWAY INCLUDE :

@ Nunn-Bush Shoes
®@ Hubbard Pants

Come Down and

© Wilson Sport Shirt
© Cuff Links

Browse Around

The Young Men’s Shop

North Main Street

Mooresville, N. C.
