PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

Moody Smith
... Charley Hasty
Jim Moore, Dick Roper

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS

Assistant Editors Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell,

Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader
Managing Editors Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
Sports Editor John Handley

News Editor _. Austin Strand ‘Feature Editor _. T. A. Williams
Art Editor... Ed Price Photographer ._... Andy Simons

Assignments Blake Brinkerltoff
Asst. Business Manager Ed Nicholson
Advertising Manager Tommy Taylor
Circulation Manager Dick Little
Collections Manager Tim Cooper

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Please, Don’t Freeze Us!

This might be considered a sort of open letter to whoever
turns the heat off and on, up and down, in the houses around
fraternity court.

It has been the considered observation of men who fre-
quent a number of the fraternity. houses that with the coming
of cooler days and nights to the iocal campus there has failed
to be a corresponding increase in the amount of heat emanat-
ing from around the radiators in their houses. While this
complaint has not been universal perhaps, it has certainly been
widespread.

We are fully aware that the college has most of its mil-
lions tied up in investments and real estate which cannot
immediately be turned into warm air in cold fraternity houses.

Nevertheless, it would not seem unduly expensive or
unreasonable for the administration in this instance to bow
to the students’ request and start letting out a little heat. No
kiddin’, we're freezing!

Two-Thirds Vote Required

To many people who read this page it may seem that suf-
ficient comment about the question of a change in diplomas
has been made already, and that the need for further edi-
torializing here or elsewhere is virtually nil.

Perhaps many will maintain that the question itself is
not worth the effort that has been given it; in fact, one faculty
member is said to have referred to the whole question as in-
tellectual “tiddly-winks” on the part of some members of the
student body.

Despite the fact that the first reaction to the whole af-
fair among many students now is the perfectly natural one
that “as long as I get one, I don’t give a flip what it looks like,”
that attitude might well change when the time actually ar-
rives for the sheepskins to be distributed.

When commencement arrives it will be too late to do
anything about what the diploma looks like.

Monday the whole business will be settled for the next
five years at least by the members of the upper three classes.

We_will not give any free advice here about what should
be done. But whatever is done we feel that everyone in the
three classes should have a hand in it—in other words that
everyone should at least take the trouble to vote on the ques-
tion.

A person not voting in effect casts a ballot against a
change back to the traditional-type diploma, which numerous
students have been advocating, because a two-thirds majority
of the total enrollment of these classes is necessary to effect
a change.

Again we emphasize that we are not presuming to attempt
to swing student opinion to any side, but only advising that
if you want to return to the traditional diploma—vote.

Letter To The Editor:

Mitchell Pleads

—_———

a a

THE DAVI

South Can Solve It’s Own

By DICK ROPER

In the United States Supreme;South by declaring its public
Court today lies the power to|school system illegal, this prob-
cause the greatest social revolu-/ lem will be solved by an evolu-
tion in the South since the Civil{tionary process.

War. The nation’s highest tribunal} How is this to come about? The
is now in the process of deciding} question here revolves about the
whether the segregation of the| Southern taxpayer's basic sense of
white and Negro races in the! values, as I shall try to point out.
South’s public schools amounts to

& violation of. the fourteenth Courts Move In
amendment to the Constitution,
which says in part that “No state
shall . . . abridge the privileges
or immunities of citizens of the
United States .. . nor deprive any
person within its jurisdiction the
equal protecton of the laws,”

The principle upon which the
present dual system of public
schools is founded ts the “sepa-
rate-but-equal” doctrine established
by the 1698 Supreme Court de-
cision in the case of Plessy vs.
Ferguson. Since that decision the
Southern states have managed to
avoid having both white and Negro
children attend the same schools
by providing separate facilities
from the first grade through high
school. But it is no secret that
the school provided for Negroes
through the years have in most
instances been far inferior to those
provided for white students,

Movement for Equal Rights

The South is currently support-
ing two school systems. But as I

being equal. Recent federal court
decisions, however, such ag the/)
Clarendon County (S.C.) case in

least to the par of white schools.

writing is on the wall for all
Southern counties with unequal
facilities.

As this equalization process goes
on all over the South, what will
be the inevitable result? When the
Southern taxpayer begins to have
to shoulder the burden of in-
creased taxes to pay for a dual
system of public schools which
are really equal, he is going to

happening in South Carolina, where
an extensive school improvement
program is now under way.

Taxpayers Dilemma

What will happen, in short, is
that as the burden on the South-

In recent years, however, the
bellef has become widespread
through the country that Negroes
should have equal rights in fact,
as well as by law. And in the
South we have seon organiza-
tions for the promotion of Negro
interests working harder than
ever for schools which are actually
as good as those provided for
white children.

At the same time, these groups
—most notably the NAACP—have
been maintaining that segregation
in itself constitutes a deprivation
of equal rights. This is the issue
that is currently being fought be-
fore the Supreme Court.

I am a Southerner, having lived
twenty of my twenty-one years in
this region, but I cannot find it in
my heart to deny the Negro at

to begin to ask himself one ques-
tion more and more frequently: Is
it worth it? Is it worth higher taxes

At first, it is to be expected
that the idea of having his children
sit in the same classroom with
Negroes will be far too distaste-
ful to let him even consider vot-

as time goes by, and better Negro
schools begin to turn out better
educated, and (it is to be hoped)|s
more morally principled Negroes,
the white taxpayer who has been
mulling the question over and over
in his mind will some day find his
sense of values changed.

tempt at a survey of some repre-
sentative student views on the di-
ploma question.
problem is now one of decision,
one that will be presented us on
Monday in chapel. The alternatives
have been narrowed to two, rather
have asserted, they are far from than the several mentioned by
Buddy Lamon in his editorial in

1951, have made it mandatory that the 1930 diploma for the next
Negro facilities be brought up at} sive years or we will have the
riginal 1640 di

Thus it is obvious that the hand- P S. Ney on yan pensar

graphically shows to all those who
are interested in the development
of the diploma, and it is suggested
that a fuller picture can be gained
by viewing the exhibit.

cannot, be assumed to be the en-
tire opinion of the three upper
classes which will vote, but certain
. , care has been taken to select men
begin to complain. This is already to write who represent a wide va:

riety of interests and experience.

seen three efforts on the part of
the seniors to return to the
original diploma turned down by
ern taxpayer increases, he is going| the administration. In these three
years the administration has wit-
nessed several changes, but the
attitude of the seniors with respect
to me to avoid having to send my/to the diplomas has remained the
children to school with Negroes? | same. This is our chance to have
what Davidson graduating classes
have wanted for many years, a
diploma in keeping with Davidson
College tradition.

DSONIAN

OFF-MOORINGS:

School Segregation Problem |]. )gStudents Want‘H

This week's column is an at-

Basically the

last week's Davideonian.

We will either continue to have

A display in the Union now

The opinions here expressed

FOR THE SENIORS
In four years at Davidson I have

We now have a mean between

ing for a single school system. But} a modern type, which doesn’t fit
Davidson, and some other type,
which doesn’t fit anything.

We
hould eliminate this hybrid and

establish either a modern diploma
or a traditional diploma. Davidson
is modern in the sense that it fills
the present day needs of a stu-
dent, but it is founded on tradi-

least an equal opportunity to learn. t For thi I think we
American Negroes have fought and Eventual Decision ed “go Mook the too di-

died in World War II and the Ko-
rean War for the same freedom
and privileges which are afforded
whites, and I do not think their
children should be denied this
basic American privilege.

Thus it can be seen that he will
eventually decide it is far less im-

gated schools than to reduce his
tax burden, so that finally he will
decide that a single schoo] system
is preferable.

The assertion that the South can
solve its own problems is probably
not always true, but I believe that
in this instance it is definitely ap-
plicable. With some gentle but
firm prodding from the federal
courts on the equalization process,

Segregation Should Stey
For While

On the other hand, I emphati-
cally do not believe in sending the
children of both races to school
together at any time in the im-
mediate future, since I do not be-
lieve the Negro in the South is
ready for such a step. Further.
more, I do not see any contradic-
tion or inconsistency in the two
aforestated beltefs.

It is my contention that if the
Supreme Court will abstain from
forcing a social revolution in the

solve its own segregation problem
—in the public schools, at least—

the Supreme Court.

ploma, in use for nearly a century,
and which was mysteriously

portant to him to maintain segre- a anged in 1930 with no explana-

ion offered,
Examine what they now give us,

examine a modern diploma, ex-

Letter To The Editor:

“Classical” Mahy Doesn’t Want Change

Dear Editor:

In last week's Davidsonien were

two articles proposing a change
I believe the South can and will from the present Classical style
diploma to the “Traditional” style
diploma which was given at David-

if it is only given the chance by| SM in the last century.

Although not a crusader myself,

For Poor Roommate

I am not opposed to the spirit of
those who are excited by this sort
of thing, and if I were not to be
affected by the proposed change J
would willingly consent to any
change for a more sentimental
diploma, even to the extremes of
a diploma with pink cupids, blue
ribbons, and etchings of General
Dear Editor: William Lee Davidson and Marshall

It is my good fortune this year|@nd/or Peter Ney. However, since
to room with the noted Davidson|! am‘ to receive either the Classi-
cartoonist, Don Mahy. I would|cal diploma or the “Traditiona?”’
personally like to vouch for his| one, I feel, purely from a selfish

character, He is really a good boy! | standpoint, that I must at least
Don makes a lot of money each | ™ake an effort to impede the cru-

year lettering the Classical style | Sade for the “Traditional,” or. Vic-
diplomas (note Ed Price's cartoon), | torian diploma, so that I will not
and though he is very modest, he| have one of these ridiculous scrolls
is actually quite proud of his let-| Presented to me next June.

tering ability. More than that, he} ! sympathize (well, not too much,

is proud of his pay check. He, has
spent a lot of time composing the
letter above—he did it to cover up
for the fact that he is actually a
poor boy. He does not want to run
up to everyone and say, “Please

actually) with those who want a
sentimental souvenir ‘of the “Ole
Davidson” of the 1850's. My advise
is that they take a few snapshots
of Phi and Eu balls, and maybe
one of Shearer Biblical Hall, and

don’t change the diploma, because| Put these in their memory books
I won't be able to letter the old] long with a few sprigs of ivy
diplomas any more and I will lose|from the Old Well. They might
a lot of money. I am a poor boy.”| also get pleasure from the fas-
So he wrote a letter. cinating displays in the library—
Therefore, I think we should]! have found great sentimental sat-
help Don by not changing the di-| isfaction in gazing for hours at the
ploma. Gee, fellows, let's all help| lively features of “The Graduating
Don! Let’s vote down this nasty} Class of 1847,” “Old Chambers in
plot against him. We like Don! | the Misty-niorning Light,” “Marsh-
—BOB MITCHELL. all Ney, a Drawing from Memory
by his Pupil, Sam McDaniel,” Gen-
EDITOR'S NOTE eral William Lee Davidson's horse

The cartoon on the left, by | pistols, etc.
Ed Price, and the letter by Some fine and significant things
Bob Mitchell expose what j|were done during the Victorian
are alleged to be the ulterior | Period; one of the failures of the
motives of Don Mahy in op- dperiod was, however, the frequent
posing a change back to the |inability to distinguish between
traditional diptoma. On the | ontiment and sentimentality. The
right above is Don Mehy’s first is fine, but th d al
own cartoon and his able de- e, but the second is usual-
fense of the present “classic” {ly ridiculous. The mistaking of
diploma. sentimentality for sentiment pro-

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1953

By JIM MOORE

amine what they used to give us
and you will see that we need the
change.

A vote of two thirds of the stu-
dent body is all we need to recap-
ture what was taken dway from
us and provide us with a diplo-
ma we can be proud of. This is
the ruling as set down by the
Executive Committee and it is
necessary for this reason that ¢* -*y
member of the student body ve.<
for this issue.

If you think this is a trivial mat-
ter, drop by the Union and ex-
amine the diploma display. Try to
imagine what this would look like
as it would hang in your office.
Are you satisfied with what you
see? I don't think you will be.

Take a minute in chapel on Mon-
day and vote for the change. You
will be glad some day you did.

—BUDDY WILLIAMSON.

FOR THE JUNIORS

Perhaps many of you feel as I
do about the diploma situation
that has arisen this year—your
only desire is to get that “sheep-
skin” and of what sort it is really
does not matter. Since very few
of us are Latin scholars and can
read the inscription, it is all just
“so many words,” except for the
fact that it represents four years
of hard work and study.

The important thing is the at-
tainment of it and not the texture
of the paper or the type of script.
Since, however, we do have to
pay a fee for it and the choice is
ours, it stands to reason that wé
should investigate and determine
which one is most suitable.

Copies of the old diploma origin-
ally used and the new one which
has been given in recent years
have been in the Union for the
past few days. Viewing them strict-
ly as a neophyte, I have found
the older of the two much more
desirable than the new one simply
becayse the script used is more
appealing. As to their history and
sentiment I am entirely ignorant;
however, it is a significant fact
that three previous senior classes
have desired the original diploma
and have gone so far as to pett-
tion the faculty for a change. ,

—CHARLIE COUSAR.

duced in the Victorian Period a
flood of wishy-washy literature,
bad art, and even worse architec-
ture, and with them an almost uni-
versal bad taste in such matters.
The “Traditional” diploma, in my
opinion, is the result of such a
mistake.

I believe that I honor and respect
Davidson College as much as any
senior on the campus, and I cer-
tainly will carry away many happy
memories when I graduate. But I
do not believe that a “Traditional”
diploma, ostentatious, pompous,

_—

Cuassic DRESS “TRADITIONAL” DRESS

THE SERENDIPITY OF THE
SANCTIFIED SHEEPSKIN

It comes to the attention of the
author that the campus is about
to erupt into one of its periodic
disgorgings during which times
we are spattered with the frenzied
mouthings of the various crusaders
for the particular cause. Ordinari-
ly this foolishness is of only limit-
ed duration, and we are soon per-
mitted to wash the slush from our
ears and resume our business.

The debate which is about to
burst upon us may seem to many
to be merely another of the mis-
begotten tempests in a Student
Union coffee cup that is destined
to have its moment as the foil in
the perpetual student-administra-
tion fencing exhibition, then be
buried aside David Yonan in the

‘local plot for lost causes. But to

those whose personality, like that
of Davidson College, gives great
import to tradition, this is a serious
matter. Shall the graduates receive
a diploma, that is the diploma of
Davidson from 1840, or shall it be
a piece of paper devoid of persa-
ality though perhaps attractive in
configuration?

The subject of this impending
crisis is whether the students want
to take sufficient action to return
to the original diploma. If not, the
present «model shall continue.
Though it must seem a trivial mat-
ter to many professors, the faculty
has announced that the students
must vote two to one in favor of
the original diploma if its use is
to be resumed. This is a very in-
teresting pronouncement. Why is
the faculty making it so difficult
for the student body to get this
proposed change? It would seem
to this writer that the faculty is
putting us to a little test. Can
the student body act together?
The faculty doubtless remembers
the seemingly unified cry that
arose upon the freshmen-eating-
Union proposition.

They must also remember that
despite unanimous voicing of seem-
ingly sincere mouthings of a stu-
dent strike, etc., against the propo-
sition, the opposition faded away
when the so called “compromise”
was announced. The faculty must
suspect that there is little unity

and artistically absurd as it is,
would do much to sustain those
memories. For this reason I prefer
the simplicity and beauty of the
Classical diploma, written in Latin
in its correct form, Roman capi-
tals, and not in the superfluous
scrolls, flourishes and gim-cracks
of the Victorian period. I want a
diploma that is dignified in the
Classical tradition of my college,
and not ridiculous in the artistic
blindness of the century of its
founding.

Old Chambers building was as

‘ ¢
ONY

}
Ae oe

is

ybrid’ for5 More Years?

Opinion Survey Questions Present Diploma

between the students and their of-
ficers when the one group talks
in one way about the chapel situa-
tion and the other group acts in
the opposite manner. Thus it seems
obvious that this matter is designed
to determine whether the students
have the unity of purpose neces-
sary to obtain something which
many students favor and which
no one seems to really oppose. The
faculty wants to learn if there is
enough leadership in this body of
850 men to overcome its native
inertia. If the student body wants
to make itself effective on more
weighty matters, it must show that
it can develop a united front on
this minute matter.

A second point that recommends
voting for the traditional promo-
tion certificate is that it is sense-
less to deny the most cherished
wish of the traditionalists when the
non-traditionalists do not give a
damn about the thing in the first
place.

Let’s go along with those who
are infatuated with the old and
at the same time show the faculty
that we are capable of an af-
firmative action. ,

—MALCOLM WILLIAMSON.

Monday’s chapel will see the di-
ploma problem presented to the
student body. Both sides should be
aired—unlike most chapels—to en-
able the student body to examine
its attitudes as to the nature of
the diploma.

To hold the opinion that upper
classes have a monopoly on fore-
sight should no€ outweigh the fact
that the freshman’s diploma will
also be affected and he therefore
should be allowed a vote.

The nature of the diploma—the
symbol of tradition—aptly advo-
cated by Jim Moore in his last
column is the attitude I believe the
student body will express. Like
the senior ring and the fraternity
pin, the diploma’s purpose is
rather symbolic than _ utili-
tarian. To one who regards well
his class and his fraternity so also
will tradition be the symbol of
one who regards well his college.

And as for modernizations, let
us, the student body and the

(Continued on Page Four)

grotesque a building as was ever
conceived in Victorian taste. Its
destruction in an accidental fire
was the luckiest thing that ever
happened to this campus. About
the same time another old absurd-
ity bit the dust, as the “old P. S.
Ney diploma” as one crusader
called it, was replaced by a simpler,
more dignified, and more beautiful
diploma. Let’s leave the Victorians
in their graves, or in this case, on
the library walls.
—DON MAHY.

Goegeve te
Wass tee wftee oor
Wrenews Mbe OFS Soo
(ete Ou orm

Aven Pomerat "Ww

if

ei or

crema
iN)

Bvin dG
-- MANY

