GE TWO

PAGE TWO

Present Intercollegiate Competition
Spelling Disaster For Davidson

Last Wednesday night’s debacle at Johnston Gymnasium
was the thirty-first consecutive major sport defeat suffered
by Davidson’s basketball, baseball and football teams. The
last time any of these teams won a contest was when the

basketball team defeated The Citadel early this year—dur-|

ing the 1952-53 season. We don’t desire the role of prophet of
doom, but we honestly fear that the end of this string of losses
may not be in sight.

No one would be so foolish or unjust as to take to task
the players or coaches for this unimpressive showing. We
are not just paying lip-service to them, but honestly believe
that they have done and are doing their best in intercollegiate
competition. Rather than condemnation they deserve the
highest praise for continuing to hustle and to put out when
the cards are usually stacked against them.

We could go on and on berating fortune, the alumni,
or the college faculty and administration for failing to supply
Davidson with sufficient athletic material to make even a
passable showing in the won-lost column, where we haven’t
even scratched for nearly a year. In a way, a towering rage
seems quite appropriate for the occasion.

It would be tempting to try to picture our athletes as a
breed of long-suffering but mute heroes who steadily go down
to defeat in a losing cause that grows steadily worse through
the years with no surcease in sight.

It might be appropriate to point out that we are well
on the road to being the laughing stock of collegiate athletics,
gaining notoriety by consistently losing, where we have not
recently been able to gain any through winning. Word of the
Davidson disaster is spreading, not just in the South, but
all across the country, from Cincinnati, and even from Cali-
fornia we have heard the word filtering back.

We might point out to certain of the faculty, administra-
tion, and student body that the outbursts in chapel might
have some relation to the fact that we never have much to
cheer about anywhere else.

Certainly we would not forget the coaching staff. Per-
haps theirs is the least enviable lot of all. They are doomed
to failure in a profession that doesn’t take into consideration
how you played the game, but only if you won or lost.

And on and on we could go.

So the question is asked, as many outsiders and alumni
ask it. “What’s wrong with Davidson?”

The answer may not be as simple as we think, but it is
certainly not as obsecure as some who ponder the problem
would have us believe.

The whole problem centers in the fact that our objectives
in athletics are at the furthermost extremes of incompati-
bility. We persist in spending about half the money that our
lowliest competitors spend to bring athletes to Davidson be-
cause we still like to think we're simon pure; we insist that
the athletes we bring here meet the same standards that all
other students have to meet in order to stay in school, and
considerably higher standards in order to be eligible for
varsity competition; we then schedule teams from schools
with larger student bodies, generally lower academic stan-
dards, not to mention much greater subsidization programs,
because we are afraid of “lowering ourselves” by doing other
wise—there being the opinion that it is more honorable to
lose to superior numbers than gain an even break at one’s
own level; finally we hope, and a vain hope it is, that though
handicapped by overwhelming odds our boys will show that
venerable old Davidson spirit, and bring home the bacon as
often as not. This is far-fetched optimism at the extreme.

We simply cannot do all these things in this day and time
in the field of intercollegiate athletics. We are trying to do
them, and have been for a nuniber of years. The intercol-
legiate record of these years, which shows our ‘stoek steadily
falling, is ample proof of our utter failure and desolation. We
have long since struck the depths and are now in the process
of exploring them.

There are several ways out of our present quandry. Two
years ago Bill White, in a very prophetic and thought-pro-
voking editorial said in substance that we were in a dilemna,
and that what we needed was strong leadership to put us
on one of the possible roads leading out. None of the obvious
solutions were or are without drawbacks, but what could be
more intolerable than our present position?

There are about three basic courses possible:

We could logically follow up the program of subsidiza-
tion we have only half begun, spend more money, which could
be gotten, and continue the present scheduling of schools
with some hope of reasonable success or we could drop the
sports that have become commercialized elsewhere alto-
gether; or we could continue or reduce our present athletic
budget and drop into a league where we would have at least
a prayer.

It is plain and simple cruelty, psychological if not physi-
cal, to continually send young men out to certain defeat on
the field of play. It kills something in them and in their fol-

(Continved On Page Four)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE VRAR

Bo’
Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editors Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
Sports Editor ————_____________—— John Handley
News Editor —. Austin Strand Feature Editor — T. A. Williams

Art Editor ______ 4 Price Photographer __ Andy Simons
Blake Brinkerholf

Ea Nicholson
Tommy Taylor
Dick Little

Collections Manager Tim Cooper
Watered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

"WHAT'S | THIS

Helle... Heus'v6 yeu: Agver
YOv~- Pen Sovry we Beuse Meo Hi

Ld Vike te briegly
Q few words whatil seems

+e e--- CE

T

Herume

erepped

outline 10

HE DAVIDSONIAN

IW AMERICAN COLLEOES awn UmiversiTiCcs”

a

\! Wes & cow
ow uy face eoe

We coe GN aswlere coe henen

McCarthy Hits New Depths
In Speech Blasting Truman

Senator Joseph McCarthy of Wis-
consin has made an important and
perhaps momentous move this
week. And we as students might
do well to turn away from our
books and other provincial con-
cerns long enough to look at this
situation in which America’s most
notorious demagogue has finally
called for a showdown. It seems
that we are about to find out who
represents the Republican party
to the American people today. Will
it be Eisenhower, the President of
the U. S. and titular leader of the
Republican party, or the man who
has caused people all over the free
world to lose respect for America,
the Senatér from Wisconsin?

When Senator McCarthy called
yesterday for a mass approval by
the American people of his
methods and efforts in fighting
communism—and also of dictating
foreign policy to the Administra-
tion—he finally brought on a situa-
tion which, it seems, must result
in some sort of showdown. Al-
though McCarthy's request for let-
ters and wires to President Eisen-
hower approving the Senator's
methods may not end in a de-
cisive victory or defeat for either
one, it seems now that the Presi-
dent must—to preserve any of his
present prestige—take a firm stand
on McCarthy’s tactics and efforts
to make his aims and methods the
standard of the Republican party.

What Concern to Student?

At this point the reader may
wonder what concern this situation
is to him. What differences does
another political squabble make to
him when he’s got more important
things to worry about, such as His-
tory 13 or this weekend's plans?

The fact of the matter is that this
isn’t just another political squab-
ble. The issues at stake are much
more important than they would
be in just another political dispute,
and jf the man discussed here ever
becomes a real power in America
we may all have to pay the conse-
quences for our folly in letting
him gain such 2 position.

Why is this man McCarthy so
important, and so dangerous to
America today? It is my contention
that he represents a threat to cer-
tain principles which are vital and
dear to this country—to the sight
of free thouglit and expression, to
the right of fair trial, to honesty
and integrity in political affairs,
and even common human decency.

Fallacy in Reasoning

But, it is said, isn't McCarthy
against communism, and isn’t com-
munism bad? Both of these state-
ments are true—and that line of
reasoning is exactly the one Sena-
tor McCarthy would like to have
everyone follow. But did it ever
occur to any of McCarthy’s fans
that this is the same thing as say-
ing, for instance, that Mr. Blank
is against sin, and isn’t sin bad?
The obvious inference from these
two arguments is that anybody
who opposes Senator McCarthy—
or Mr. Blank—must be for com-
munism—or for sin.

It seems hardly ever to occur to
the members of the McCarthy fan
club that it is not the Senator's
avowed aims that his opponents
are attacking, but rather his
methods, which we have seen him
use time and time again—the big
smear, the headlines, and then the

By DICK ROPER

fadeaway, when finally it appears
that the Senator had accused a man
without concrete evidence.

The charges which can be made
against McCarthy merely from his
last speech are many, but a few
illustrations will serve to © show
some of his other mean methods.
One of the most flagrant distortions
of the truth and the record ever
made by any demagogue can be
seen in the concluding paragraph
of his speech last week:

“Let me remind you in conclu-
sion that when the smoke-screen
of false political righteousness is

raised against McCarthyism by.

Harry Truman or anyone else sing-
ing in his choir of deceit, that he,
Truman, stands on his record as
an individual and as a President.

“He promoted Harry ‘Dexter
White, Russian spy. He fired Doug-
las MacArthur, one of the greatest
living Americans.”

The implication is clearly that
Truman’s record is summed up in
that he promoted a Russian spy
and fired one of the greatest liv-
ing Americans. From this it is dif-
ficult to infer anything else except
that Truman worked in the in-
terests of the communists. In this
sordid attack on Truman's loyalty
no mention whatsover is made of
the very effective and important
Truman Doctrine for the contain.
ment of communism, the Marshall
Plan for European recovery, or the
Point Four program for technical
assistance to underdeveloped coun-
tries—all of which dealt a body
blow to Russian imperialistic in-
terests.

Guilt by Association
Guilt by association is another of
McCarthy's favorite methods. In
his attempt to tie up American

casualties in America to the doings
of the communists in America, he
mentions the known communists,

Alger Hiss and Harry Dexter White |.

in the same breath as former
Secretary of State Dean Acheson,
who, although he may have made
mistakes and had shortcomings, can
on the basis of the overall record
hardly be considered a communist
or even a communist sympathizer.
Yet McCarthy would quite obvious-
ly have us believe that Acheson,
who held what is probably the
second highest governmental posi-
tion in the land, aided and abetted
the communists.

The unbelieveably low depths
to which this man will stoop can
be seen in the opening passage of
the speech being discussed. Mc-
Cagthy states that Truman's defini-
tion of McCarthyism “was identical,
word for word, comma for comma,
with the definitions adopted by
the Communist Daily Worker
which originated the term. Yes-
terday, the National Committee of
the Communist party issued a state-
ment condemning Attorney Gen-
eral Brownell and lauding Truman
for his attack on ‘McCarthyism.”

Truman Net Communist

Now, I do not have much use
either for some of our former
President’s ways but I do not be-
Neve that the overall record shows
that Harry Truman was or is now
a communist or a fellow traveler,
and I do not think many Ameri-
cans believe that. But what other
inference can you make from Mc
Carthy’s statement?

There is much more from the
record that could be cited to show
the low plane on.which McCarthy
operates, but I think these ex-

(Continued On Page Four)

Kindergarten Ku Klux Klan

The following is an excerpt
from The Cavalier at the Uni-
versity of Virginia where a
fight is now being made to
establish a Students for Ameri-
ca organization:

The following editorial origin-
ally appeared in the Minnesota
Dally; it is reprinted here because
we feel that it is indicative of the
current trend in this country to
wards mass conformity, McCarthy-
ism, and away from many of the
American concepts of individual
liberty.

It is even more significant be-

cause there is a group of students| |

here-—largely first-year men—who
desire to establish a chapter of
Students for American at this Uni-
versity. The avowed purpose of
three self-appointed vigilantes is
to search out and expose any
leftists, Marxists, Communists, fel-
low-travelers, ete., among the stu-
dents and faculty of the Univer-
sity. These first-year men are to
take it upon themselves tq de-
termine who is and who is not
“un-American” through their own
junior-grade imitation of Me
Carthyism. We feel that this sort
of kindergarten Ku Klux Klan is
out of place at this University.
oeoeee®#

“, . . Somewhere in our high
schools, this year’s freshmen and
high school students in the classes

informed, or not informed at all,
about the basic concepts of our
way of life.

“Proof of this comes in a poll
Purdue University recently took of
the high school age group... .
The results are startling. For in-
stance: .

*_.. Fifty-eight per cent of the
high school students polled think
police are justified in giving a man
the, third degree to make him talk.

“ .. Only 45 said newspapers

should be permitted to print the
news freely except for military
secrets.
“,... Thirty-three per cent said
that persons who refuse to testify
against themselves should either
be made to talk or be severely
punished.

“, . . » Twenty-six per cent be-
Heve that police should be allowed
to search a person or his home
without a warrant.

“It’s not a healthy situation to
have young people rejecting con-
stitutional guarantees of freedom
at a time when these liberties are
threatened by demagogues and dic-
tators.

Freshmen who hold these beliefs
should examine them carefully dur-
ing their next four years.

“We hope that during your in-
tellectual and social development
here you will come to be an ardent
defender of the civil Hberties some

behind them have either been mis-| of you now disapprove...”

OFF-MOORINGS:

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1953

The Davidson Atmosphere Not
Ruin of An Outdated Morality

We knew by Tuesday that Jim
Moore, married man, would be un-
able to write for this week’s paper;
with this depressing prospect in
mind, we began to scout about the
campus looking for a topic for the
week. Stopping in at one of the
administrative offices we asked the
gentleman for a suggestion. With
his reply, “What do you feel like
tearing up,” we got our lead.

Paper upon paper, speech upon
speech this year has followed the
policy of “tear this apart,” “Rip
that to pieces,” etc., ete., until we
have come to the point on the
whole that the Free Lance seemed
to reach last year: The whole
school: is a crate of tom-foolery
anyway.

Sometime ago in chapel a well-
known statesman visiting Davidson
made the statement that corruption
in government was the exception,
else it would not be billed as top
news. Without agreeing or dis-
agreeing with his statement as to
national scope, we would like to
try to apply it to the Davidson
scene as a fact.

tt is the chapel conduct, the
missing library books, the dor-
. mitory noisemakers, the fresh-
man disregarding his rules
that draw the attention here
st Davidson, whereas behind
the scenes those seven hun-
dred or so regular boys,
neither notable nor notorious,
go .ebout their daily business
with » general underlying re-
gard for most of those about
them.

Were two hundred library books
missing at the end of last year?
The boys responsible should have
been reprimanded. But what of the
thousands of books properly
checked out and in by boys who
naturally work in accord with their
privilege in having the open stack
system? These boys surely build
greatly upon a system which the
few who disregard it would tear
down. .

There was much talk of gross
dishonesty on the part of College
Union coffee drinkers before the
snack bar was set up. There is no
doubt that under a system of per-
sonal honor such as exists here at
Davidson all coffee should have
been paid for, yet those eighty
per cent who took the honor sys-
tem at its worth and paid out of

By HENRY BROCKMANN
Fer JIM MOORE

pure habit never received praise.

Some would say that they were

only doing what was expected of
them, and that they therefore de-
serve no praise. It would seem to
us that doing one’s duty merits
high praise, especially when that
action is unsupervised save by one’s
own conscience.

Recently there was a boy in a
long line in front of the College
Union reception desk. He stood
there for ten minutes waiting his
turn to speak to the attendant.
When he was recognized, he
handed in sixty cents that he had
found on one of the chairs.

Would this money ever
seach its owner? Probably
not! That was not what was
impertent to the bey who
handed it in. Something big-
ber than himself, perhaps an
impersonal version of the Gold-
en Rule, dwelt inside him,
telling him that no matter
whose money it was, he would
return it to the proper place,
exectiy os he would expect
someone to do for him.

It is interesting to stay in one’s
room studying late into the
night, for one can hear in the
noises in the hall a contrast of
which the spectacular side is
usually the only one editorialized.
At intervals the storm troopers in-
vade the quietness with their wild
tales of card games or concubines,
but at other times, by far the more

‘|numerous, a quiet step is heard

outside the door, the step of a
boy who knows that others are
asleep, and that he too will soon
be getting needed rest.

He carries within him a real-
tzation that he is @ gregarious
being, responsible not for his
own welfare alone, but for that
of these sround him.

Bofore the leaves fall, when the
freshmen enter their new school,
there is seen again, even in these
earliest embryo Davidsonians, a
spirit not deplorable, but for the
most part eager to settle into the
track (not rut) and learn the ways
of the school.

Do freshmen disobey their rules?
For the most part delinquency is
left to a very few, and the fresh-
men as a whole show an attitude
of willingness to comply with the
same training offered to those who
have gone before them. Whether

the training is proper or just is not
for discussion here. It is complied
with because freshmen like a
smooth running college life, and
tradition has set for them what it
feels to be the proper start.

The most talked about subject so
far this college year has been the
chapel conduct. Davidsentan
articles have pictured the student
in extremes {fromi a contemptible
barbarian or infant needing a dia-
per and baby carriage to be happy,
to a freedom loving and righteous
man who seeks in riotous chapel
conduct to tear down a
system of forced labor. Five or ten
men could possibly fit into each
category, but by far the most stu-
dents are usually attentive to those
to whom they feel they should
show respect without reserve, and
fun loving with those who can tske
it. There have been recent cases
of disrespect in hoots, guffaws, or
barking dogs, but in these cases
it was an individual, not the Da-
vidson students as a whole that was
guilty.

On and on one could go with
ease in citing examples of the ma-
ture attitude of the Davidson stu-
dent; the congenial atmosphere of
the campus, the wonderful will-
ingness to help the other fellow,
the unaffected yet unsarcastic air
of student groups in general.

. Always there are those who dis-
regard others completely; always
in any human instrument such as
Davidson College, imperfect and
unfinished, there are faults ip
framework, administration and
tradition.

But would one destroy a beau-
tiful building because it needs a
new coat of paint? The most
startling fact about the sacred
Mount Fuji in Japan is that it has
a large hump, a gross imperfec-
tion on its slope. Davidson and its
students are as sound as rock; the
‘problem we must, face in library,
Union, student relationships,
chapel and in all our existing here
is the problem not of tearing down
what is useless, but of pushing it
aside with new and better things
as they come along.

And it is the underlying
spirit here, thet of cooperation
end mutual dependence and
aid, that of respect for ethers,
that will overcome the faults
and meke progress in deing se.

Culture Gets A Boost For The Better In
Davidson’s 1953-54 Guest Artist Series

Somebody deserves a goodly
portion of praise for having ob-
tained the services of Charles
Laughton last Wednesday night.
It’s been a long time since David-
son has been exposed to a man
who could exude culture orally
and fascinate the audience with
his presentation. One has the con-
ception of Laughton as a great,
overgrown precocious boy, happily
rattling off those stories which he
has committed to memory and pro-
jecting himself in fantasy into
every part which he portrayed.
Take away the mane of gray hair,
and the figure, and one has the
impression of a mischievous in-
genue—an elder prototype of Nor-
man Rockwell’s choirboy, with a
slingshot hanging out of his hip
pocket.

Perhaps Laughton’s greatness
stems from his ability to complete-
ly absorb himself in what he is
saying. He does not interpret the
speeches or the minds of the speak-
ers—rather, he simply dons for the
moment their complete life and
personality. After listening to him,
it is hard to visualize him as a
distinct entity; he seems to be a
combination of the Devil, Rem-
brandt, Barnacle, and a penitent
Nebuchadnezzar. The moment's
hesitation at the end of certain
passages seem to be a struggle to
return to the reality of the stage.
Probably some of this is only the
actor in him; mostly, however, it
appears that.he is genuinely en-
grossed in the beauty and feeling
of the part. And in the background,
one senses the mental metronome
ticking in his head, automatically
controlling his balanced delivery.
Anyhow, had he gone on for an-
other two hours, it is doubtful
whether anyone would have left.
He's great.

Culture ran rampant Wednesday.
Running interference for Mr.
Laughton at the evening show, we
had Dr. Bonnell at the matinee.

By RONALD WILSON

Certainly he presented a chapel
program which excited more in-
terest than many preceding ones.
Complimentary remarks were even
made after his talk, which is
equivalent to a standing ovation
anywhere else. As a matter of con-
jecture, he is probably one of the
leading protagonists of the organ-
ized church in this country. As an
astute theologian and a dynamic
speaker, he ranks among the best.

Along the lines of culture, there
is a surprisingly superior Guest
Artist Series this year. Jan Peerce
brings an enviable reputation

e

along with him when he comes to
sing next week; Isaac Stern, per-
sonally, is the finest violinist on
the circuit today; Carl Sandburg,
if he reads his poetry as well as
he writes it, should fill the vacated
post of Robert Frost with a mini-
mum of effort, and Claude Rains
added the debonair, sophisticated
touch. The whole slate is excellent.
We would have liked to see Corne-
lia Otis Skinner return again; per-
haps that will. be arranged next
year. Anyway, the culture is there
for the asking—all we've got to do
is go, absorb and assimilate it.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR:

v

HOOD SPEAKS FOR GROUP PIX

Dear Editor:

Some comment has oeen made in
the past few weeks on the plan to
use group photographs of frater-
nity members for the fraternity
section in the 1064 Quips and
Cranks. We would like to outline
our reasons for setting up this
plan and show how it is ultimately
designed not to reduce the effec-
tiveness of the fraternity section,
but actually to improve its layout.

When the original layout for
the book was drawn up last sum-
mer, it was our intention to in-
clude on the two pages which each
fraternity is alloted as much sig-
nificant material as possible. Plans
at present include drawings of each
fraternity’s pin and crest, and a
picture of the house, as well as the
traditional writeup, picture of the
sponsor, informal snapshots, and,
of course, pictures of the members.
The extra space was gained by
planning for a group shot of the
brothers and pledges, which fills
about one-half of a page, rather
than a panel, which fills one com.
plete page as in last year’s book.
To use a panel again this year
would force us to eliminate the

pin, crest, and house, features

which we feel undoubtedly add to
the attractiveness of the pages.

Perhaps even more important
than layout is the variety which
would be added by using group
photos. Few would claim that using
the same individual pictures that
have appeared countless times be-
fore in the book, (and the frater-
nities do come last) helps to in-
ject veriety or individuality into
the fraternity pages. A group pic
ture, on the other hand, would do
just that; it would furnish a dif-
ferent picture for each individual
as well as a picture for each fra-
ternity not patterned after any
other in the book.

Some have said that with a group
picture individual faces might not
show up well. This is often true of
group shots, and it has been true
of groups in some past editions of
Quipe. But this year we plan ‘to
use a professional photographer
with proper equipment and experi-
ence, and there is no chance that
individuals might be hard to
identify. Others have claimed that
the pictures should be taken in
front of the fraternity houses, and
admittedly, this would be the ideal

(Continued On Pege Four)
