PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1953

A Sad Commentary?

This past week the attention of the Davidsonian has been
called to what appears to be a rather sad commentary on the
Honor System, or at least on the reliability of the Davidson
Student.

The case in point concerns the sale of coffee and dough-
nuts in the College Union.

This semester coffee and doughnuts have been sold in|.

the union on an honor basis, the student taking what he
_ wants, and assuming the responsibility for leaving the money
in a cash box placed in the kitchen.

Since this system has been in operation, the union has
been taking a rather steady loss every day, the cost of provid-
ing the coffee and doughnuts not being covered by the amount
of money left in the box.

The daily cost runs from about 15 to 17 dollars, and the
daily receipts only from 11 to 12 dollars. Now, assuming that
the price is sufficient to cover costs, the only remaining con-
elusion is obvious: Somebody hasn’t been paying for what
he has been eating and drinking.

Now it is exceedingly hard for us as Davidson students
to admit that there is even an outside chance that any of us
are, or might be, a-shade dishonest, even in the smallest de-
gree. We hope and believe that this is not the case. It is very
easy to drink a cup of coffee on the house and plan to pay
for it “next time”. But it is equally easy to forget about it com-
pletely as soon as you leave the union.

We pride ourselves on our maturity and integrity, espe-
cially do we give tribute to these qualities, and attribute them

to ourselves when we think that the faculty and administra-| CABBAGE PLANTER:

tion are treating us like children. ,

The honor system in regard to coffee and doughnuts may
seem a trivial thing, but more important things are often mere-
ly the agglomeration of trivialities.

It is a small thing to ask for prompt payment before
leaving the servery or kitchen, but it is important if the pre-
sent service is to be continued.

Revision of Class Elections

The present method of electing the president, vice-presi-
dent, and secretary of the various classes presents some seem-
ing discrepencies that should be considered by next year’s
class officers before the next class elections in the spring of
54.

Under the existing setup all three officers are nominated
‘and elected simultaneously, which means that a man nomi-
nated for one of the offices is automatically prevented from
running for another. This system undoubtedly is the simplest
from the purely administrative point of yiew, and is time-
saving.

But the men defeated in the presidential and vice-presi-
dential voting is left out in the cold as far as his chances for
holding one of the lessor offices are coricerned.

An idea we believe worth considering would be to nomi-
nate men for class president first, and after the election of the
president, nominations would be opened for vice-president, or
the closest runner-up for the top office could automatically be-
come the Veep.

There is no reference in the constitution to the proce-

dure to be used in class elections, so any desired change could
be brought about with a minimum of difficulty and red tape.

At any rate we feel that this subject merits consideration, and| | came back at this readily with
that perhaps the whole procedure of class elections should | ‘That's true. College humor is dead

be incorporated in the constitution.

Union Post Otfice

Quite a bit of controversy has recently arisen over the
question of whether or not a Post Office in the College Union
would be a desirable thing.

At present it appears that at least a small majority of the
student body is in favor of such a move. At least such a
preference was indicated in the recent Davidsonian poll taken
in Chapel.

On the surface, it appears that the Post Office in the
Union would have many advantageous points. This granted,
it seems to us that such a Post Office might prove to be a
needless luxury, or that it in long run might prove less
convenient or less efficient than the downtown station.

We are still open to persuasion on this issue, but at
present are in doubt both as to the need and to the desirability
of setting up a Post Office in the Union when the present one
is located practically on the campus.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

Moody Smith

Charlies Hasty

Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell,

Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editors Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney

Sports Editor Jobn Handley

News Editor — Austin Strand Feature Editor — T. A. Williams

Art Editor Don Mahy Photographer ._.. Andy Simons
Blake Brinkerhoff

Assignments
Asst. Business Manager E24 Nicholson

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editors

Entered ag second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897. .

(All Unsigned Sditoriels Are From The Editer-in-Chief)
rae ,

THE FREE LANCE:

It is a rather moot question what

course the term “value” itself is
vague in almost any sense in which

Sy JOHN OTTLEV
second best usually in the af-

Moulin Rouge Accurately
Portrays Enigma of Artist

ologies as well as the confusion

fairs of the world. Somehow [which results. «

his mind is quite cut ef tune
with it.

Of course this confusion is often
quite intentional — that is we can

Being only men, artists cannot|hide from our selves the real rea-

it is used. Nevertheless we would{help but feel this separation and|son behind some shady act by hur-
contend that one of the most use-|it causes them much distress. Lau-iriedly quoting a tautology.

ful kinds of exposition is that in-|trec was miserable and it was un-

volving human nature.

of the artist which we have seen.
With e combination of cast-
ing, phetegraphy, and serip?
like unte that of few cinemas
we have seen, the life of Teul-
ouse-Lautrec serves os 8 prote-

type of the painter.
Notice we did not say Moulin
explains the enigma, for

)
Lave

© wus we Of RaSPoruese FoA Tart ow ter way Tesenney 1

rightness.

The artist is a man who fs
not really himself at all times.
There are momentous drives
which clutch at him and force
him te create.

Lautrec was also subject to the
unrelenting grip of alcohol, yet
despite this and the pain in his
legs he drove himself at his paint-
ing. It was like a silent task master
ever at his back, ever commanding
in his ear.

An artist is seldom understood

Texas Ranger Scores Reaction,
Plugs College Humor Theme

fortunate that he thought his legs

In Moulin Rouge, Walter Houston] and face alone accounted for his
has supervised one of the most/semi-ostracization.
perceptive accounts of the enigma Because of their unconscious

devetion te their art, they
often tend te be unsuccessful
in love. Few weman under-
stand why en artist can never

To know what we mean end
why, it is necessery to reduce
our reasons to irreducibles.
Thus “Business is business“
entails a grest many concepts
such as one suggested by on-
other focal columnist e.g.,
“Business is crawling over
dead bodies to get to the top.”

give entirely of himselfwhy -

there must always be e hidden
corner which she can ebserve,

Rouge

there are few indeed who even at-[izations derived from what seems
tempt to do this with any trace ofjto be a particular case w
are assuming to be true,
will disagree with the fact that
the film gave a vast insight into
many of the situations which con-
front an artist.

What Teutelogy?

No crusade against business this,
but an effort to slice away some
of the walls which cloud our think-
ing. For example, “Business is also
giving the other guy a fair price
— sometimes.”

ich eel But why did we object to the

tautology named by the speaker?
The statement “God is God” is not
irreducible, but implies a great
many things which if clarified
might lead to a more unified con-

The honorable speaker in vespers ception of religion by those in-

Sunday night did an unusual thing | %°

— he came quite close to putting
across a philosophical truism to
a Davidson College audience.
One of his conclusions was
that toe often men explain
away their actions with a faut-

“God is God” implies “Love
your neighbor,” a relatively
universal concept, but it also
impties te some that “God is
white,” or “God is Phi Beta
Kappa.”

(in tine with our policy of
bringing to light significent
thought from other scheols on
problems that concern us dur-
ing these four years, we sre
reprinting in part en article,
“College Humor,” by Editor
Bobby Jones of the Texas
Renger. We disagree with
some of it, but it is a thought-
ful piece, and reflects the
thought end attention given
this original and wealthy bre
ther in the field of college
publications. TAW.)

By BOBBY JONES

There appear to be doubts and
confusions rife about the present
state of humor in our generation
and time. On several hands you
can hear national humorists be-
moan the fact that talented writers
— the Robert Benchley’s, and other
humorous essayists — have become
exceedingly dearth. The heck of
the thing is, the wailings have
started up on the college level,
too. In fact, a former contempor-
ary of ours, the Princeton Tiger,

By 7. ALDEN WILLIAMS

why?

. +.» You might say that the Ivy
League magazines were the ones
who started all this mess in the
first place, when, taking Harold
Ross’s New Yorker as a model they
started a vogue in college mag-
azines which has lasted up until
the middie of this century .. .
that suave New Yorker air was
right.down their alley. They took
their cue and, as the New Yerker
dominated national humor, the Ivy
League took the lead in college
humor.

All of which was well and good
- » « But I don’t think they will
ever hit the peak they did back
when sophistication was in its hey-

ley.

. . - Pll wager that almost every
college magazine in the country
has gone through a New Yerkerish
phase of existence at least once
during its life span. But where
the Ivy League held fast to the
grail, the down-country magazines
lacked the talent and the ingenuity
to keep a good, clever campus-
sized New Yorker going in the

has found out, and is now attempt-
ing to correct, such a closed cor-
poration can lead to dangerous
stagnation. The old Ivy League
format was good for the first
twenty years, but now it is ready
for some freshening up. That, I
should say, is where people are
getting the idea that college humor
is moribund. The real seat of the
trouble is just the fact that the
old leaders have suddenly felt their
formula going stale on them, and
realized that that unstable thing,
humor, had gone flux on them un-
awares ... other college magazines
were mixing and mingling, and, in
the strange alchemy of the student
press, gradually developing a fresh-
ness and originality with which to
steal their thunder.

Of course, there is an awful lot
of drivel printed which bears the
name of college humor, but in the
midst of all that shine such mag-
aaines as the Arizona Kitty Kat,
the Ohio State Sundial, the Col-
umns, from the University of Wash-
ington, the Michigan State Spartan,
and the Syracusan, from Syracuse

by his contemporaries since he
seldom fits the mold men make
for themselves. Lautrec painted
what he felt he had to and bothered
with little else.

It is not easy to reduce our rea-
soning to its bare essentials, but
&@ more proper rebson for con- [then when was serious thinking
duet Is thet “Ged is Ged.” ever easy? We hope, however, that
We wish he had gone further in| the necessity for so doing has been

olegy such es “Business Is
business.” He suggested that

This is the essence of the jhis drive to explain the slothful-|Mlustrated by the foregoing ex.

artist. He comes off @ poor

ness involved in the use of taut-/ amples.

The Editor’s Mailbox:

To Have or Have Not ~ College Union P.O.?

To the Editor:

There are several reasons, strong,|this would require funds larger
logical ones, that lead me to be-|than pocket change.

can bet your bottom dollar that| revision.
It is the policy of this depart-
ment of the cabinet to answer the

Heve that Davidson College and| The advantages of haying s post|calls received from neighboring

the Student Union would be bet-
ter off without a post office.

(1) However good or poor you
may think the service is at the
downtown post office, it stands to
reason thst the new post office’s
service would not be as good. Mail
comes in and is sent out five or
six times per day on week days
and once on Sundays. The Union
post office would have only two
mails a day and none on Sunday,
as proposed. It would not handle
parcel post, neither sending nor
receiving. Stamp and envelope buy-

face’ of all the competition, and| University, N. Y., who have suc-
gradually sought and developed| cessfully combined humor, fiction,
other formulas. Most of them sub-/and articles together into a still
sided down into the old reliable] growing formula called the Stu-
humor magazine format — two] dent Magazine... .

line jokes, swiped cartoons, sex,| Of course, as long as there is
drinking and football. Some went| such a thing as a college freshman
matter sort of gives one pause.| literary. Others attempted a com-| sense of humor — the sexy wench,
Just what is the matter with col-| promise between the two... . the all night drunk, the slightly off
lege humor — if anything — and] As the New Verker, I believe, (Continued On Page Feur)

Temporary Church Memberships for Students
Poses Another Problem For Rev. Sam Newell

when it folded up shop last year,

even went on record as saying

that “College humor is dead.”
Of course, the Harvard Lempeen

ing would also be another problem.
Would the Union post office handle
these items? It boils down to this.
If you had a letter, airmail or regu-
lar, that you really wanted to get

”
— at Princeton,” but the whole downtown.

mit that the Student Union is closer
to the living quarters of the ma-
jority of the students than the
present post office is, however,
these two short distances are re-
latively insignificant. It’s not much

ver since the arrival of
Rev. Newell es the pester ef
the church here, there has
been @ good deal of talk con-
cerning making the Davidsen
church a home church fer the
students. This plan weuld fol-
tow the same general outline
of similer piens which heve
been put into effect in ether
colleges. it would entall a tem-
porary transfer ef membership
te the college church, giving
the student equal rights with

By RONALD WILSON

a couple of strikes against him if
a college church were to be estab-
lished because of the required
vespers which feature outside
speakers. Many students feel that
since they are required to attend
vespers, it wilf suffice for their
church-going activity that week —
therefore the pastor has no chance
to reach them inhis single morning
service. Whether this decision of
the student is right or wrong, how-
ever, is unimportant — it is the
decision which most of them have

listic wark on and off
campus. Mention was mede
the fact thet some of the
dents would like to become
mere stratified denomination-
ally, with seperate pro
grams for the separate de
nomations, but this would de-
fest the general purpose of
the YMCA. As tong as com-
pulsery YMCA membership
exists, we might es well sup-
port it.

Admittedly, the YMCA program

He

more than a city block from Cham-
bers to the P.O. I might add, that
our present post office is not as
far from most of the students as
many of the campus P.O.’s are at
a large number of the colleges
and universities in the country.
(3) Some say that more of the
students should use the Student
Union, and that the new P.O. would
cause a big increase in traffic. Just
wait until next year, when the
cafeteria and stud are in operation
over there. About two-hundred fifty
boys will be trooping into the
Union regularly three times a day.

made and they plan to abide by it./leaves something to be desired.
Another factor which would com-| Hallet Ward made that point clear
plicate the work of the minister|in his speech. However, establish-
is the dual congregation which he|ing a church membership for the
would have to minister to. Tech-| students and saddling Rev. Newell
, our church is in the name/|with the responsibility of provid-
of the Town of Davidson Presby-|ing for them active participation
terian Church, and it was a commit-jin the church program seems
tee from the congregation that call-|rather useless. Once Rev. Newell
ed Rev. Newell as a pastor. Unlike | gets settled and squared away, and
most other college churches, he|if YMCA membership becomes vol-
would have first to keep the town/(mtary rather than compulsive —
congregation in good spirits and|then’s the time to talk of tempor-
iso minister to the students. Either|ary student memberships in the
job is more than enough for any/| church.
one man.

A workable church program
fer the students end the con
gregation could be senether
stumbling bleck. Geeavse eof

the members of the church
wheee residence is permanent-
by in the locality of the church.
Reasons advanced for this

Believe me, those along with the
present users will keep the Union
pretty well occupied.

(4) Where in the Unton would
the P.O. be located? There is no
over-abundance of space there, you

ing tha?
es ssying they atways know. Actually the plans had to

liked te see their names In the
bulletin when they had been
elected to an office, taught the
Sunday Scheel lessen, er in-
duiged in some other pertinent
activity.

This writer fails to get moved
much about establishing a home
church when the main reason is
simply to see one’s name in the
bulletin as having contributed some
little endeavor to the work of the

was found to be inadequate.

They say a fool can ask more|iously that operation expenses at
questions than a wise man can an-|the downtown P.O. would be cut

be changed, at a tremendous cost,| operating at the highest levels in
when the kitchen and storage space our history and are likely to con-| Employment opportunities for

office in the Student Union are|schools and churches, with David-
just not great enough to warrant}son men who go on these deputa-
one. The only real advantages I can | tions with the intention of conduct-
see would be the decrease in cost/ing or contributing to Christian
to the College of intra-college cor-| worship programs. Students have
respondance and in ereating a few/expressed their gratification and
new jobs for students who wish to/sense of rising spiritual maturity
work. Davidson College doesn’t/from these duties. Every YMCA

need a post office. deputation team goes forth under
Max Morrison. the banner of Christ; if actions fall
. short of this standard, they d
YMCA DEPUTATIONS [through individual weaknesses of
To The Editor: various men.

It has been found in the past

... The Davidson College YMCA | that a wholesome social attitude is
fs at present under a critieal sur-ideveloped by several additional
vey of the entire student body. Is-/ students’ going with the program
sues were raised in the recent| leaders to other colleges. This adds
election of YMCA officers that/to the unrestrained atmosphere of
show the students are interested in| collegiate discussion groups and

on its way, you'd end up taking it|/their YMCA. This is as it should|helps prevent the arising of a spirit

be. The student body members| that our group has come to lecture

(2) Advocates of the new post | have the right to know about their/to an inferior group (this is cer-
oftice use the convenience factor YMCA and its particular functions; tainly not the case!).

as a talking point. I'll have to ad-|*hus, this letter.

I make no apology for the fact
Several students have congratu-|that deputation teams enjoy their
lated me on my being sppointed | work and appreciate the social con-
chairman of the committee onitacts made by the trips. The idea
deputations of the YMCA; in the/of inclemency and social aloof-
same breath a few of them have|ness is not encouraged on YMCA
expressed their idea that this post's | deputations.
duties consist of planning mas] As far as I know, this has always
movements of Davidson men to|been the policy of the YMCA com-
surrounding churches and schools,|mittee on deputations. It shall re-
as social excursions. This idea|main so during the coming year.
needs clarification, if not complete Bill Scholl. :

Job Outlook For 1953

The economy of the United{sales. The demand for personnel in
States is operating at extremely|the natural sciences as a whole
high levels. Employment records/is expected to exceed the supply
are established nearly every month,|for several years as the defense
and unemployment is at postwar|program continues; the need will
low. Consequently, the employment|be most intense for workers with
outlook for college graduates this| graduate training or considerable
year is excellent. experience. However, opportunities

The main forces responsible for|for persons with only a bachelor’s
our present high production and|degree will continue to remain
employment are consumer pur-|S00d, particularly in view of the
chases, new construction, and cap-|declining numbers of graduates
ital investment in new plants and|With bachelor’s degrees. -
equipment. All of these forces are Chemists

tinue so for a number of months| che ate greatest in such

(5) Let’s face the situation from/to come. A further incentive is|Manufacturing industries as
a purely economic point of view.| provided by the demand for mill-| chemicals, petroleum, rubber, food,
Every year thé United States Post|tary goods and equipment for na-| 4nd paper. Educational institutions
Office Department uperates at a/tional defense. Such expenditures |4Nd government also employ a sub-
deficit in the mail handling busi-/have been at a record high for|stantial number of chemists. They
ness. Why should we go into such! peacetime, but are scheduled to|@fe also in demand in consulting
an unprofitable business? If wejedge downward within the fore-|!aboratories, nonprofit research in-
get this post office, I doubt ser-jseeable future.

stitutes, hospitals, and mining com-
panies. Though the need for per.

Natural Sciences sons with graduate training is

church. There seems to be a strik-
ing similarity between this type
of “work” and the philanthropy
of some individuals who give only
to keep from paying income tax on
the money, and because the pub-
llcity of their gift helps to boost
business.

Rev. Newell would start out with

the single service per Sunday
left te Rev. Newell, tt weuld
seem that the possibility of
working in students in the
services of the church would
be grestty reduced. Concomi-
tantly, YMCA hee a fairly
tight monepely en the Sundsy
Scheel, deputation end evange-

swer. No wonder so many of us| one penny. We, as taxpayers, would| Demand for personnel in most|steatest, those with only a bache-
flunk our exams! be the victims of a “double take”./of the natural sciences hes in-jlor’s degree will find numerous

Chris: “What are you
about, honey?” an

cents per semester, a fée that is|lated to defense production and| 1951 was in
Hazel: “The same thing you are,|intirely inadequate to pay for the/research and development. How-| $5,000 tn poveran en sey.
sweetness.” service that we should have. The|ever, personnel are also needed in|in educational institutions. Chem-
Chris: “Then I'll race you.to the| initial cost of installing boxes, etc.| other kinds of scientific work auch|ists with a Ph.D. earned $6,000;
ieebox. would also be a big factor. You'as administration and technical (Centinued Gn Page Four) ,

