FOR DAVIDSONIAN SERVICE

Reporting Jim Brice
Sports Jim Holshouser
Ads Larry Parrott

PUBLISHED WEEKLY
The news and editorial voice of

—_——— Davidson College
Subscriptions __. Bob Carmichael

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1954

Sigma Upsilon Holds|Coach Dole Honored
First Meeting Of Year| ay Alumni Banquet

Davidson's chapter of Sigma Up-
silon, honorary literary fraternity,

Davidson’s Bill Dole was honor-

held its first meeting of the year | ed by the Greater Charlotte Alum-
Thursday, October 7, in the Sigma | ni Association at their recent “Fall

Chi fraternity lodge.

Roundup” held last Wednesday

Dr. W. P. Cumming opened the | 2ight, October 13, at the First
program with a review which he| Presbyterian Church’s Fellowship
wrote for the Charlotte Observer | Hall in Charlotte.

of Wilder Shores of Love by Les-

The meeting, entitled “Bill Dole

lie Blanch. The novel is the story Night,” featured a talk by Dole on

of four famous Victorian women
who in their lives and loves prov-

Davidson's prospects for the re-

ed to be anything but Victorian. mainder of the season, as well as

Following a discussion of the re-|a summary of the team’s progress
view, Gilbert Gragg read two ori-|to date. Following Coach Dole’s ad-
ginal works, a poem “New York | dress a business meeting was held,
City” and a short story “Wind.” with talk centered around the

“New York City” centered around

the poet’s experiences in New

coming game with Furman, to be

York as a city of paradise. In| played in Charlotte on October 22.

“Wind,” Gragg gave his own

{Gothic interpretation of life as

portrayed in the memory of a
boy's experiences in a hurricane.
The meeting concluded with a
brief discussion of the novel Sig
Up members will write this year.

| IMRS. LM. ELKINS,

The Freshman Run... Belt Buckles and Buckets of Water

Organized by the Court of Control, with appropriate modifications by members of the student body,
the 1954 Freshman Run can be described as elther an effort to prevent hazing or an over-dose of haz-
ing with official sanction. The scene above was taken as the beleaguered freshmen passed through
water hoses and swinging belts behind Fraternity Row. (Steff photo by Hank Daniel).

LITTLEJOHN MAKES
3rd ARMY RIFLE TEAM lo Belield Nov.26-2

By FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH
As a result of his outstanding showing this past June and | 26-28 at the United Nations Head-

July at summer ROTC cam ‘fen
in the National Rifle Association

" member of the Third Army
sented the Third Arm

e team. This team repre-

Championship Matches fired last August at Camp Perry, Ohio.

Alter finishing his summer
ROTC training, Littlejohn report-
ed to Fort MacPherson near At-
lanta, Georgia, where he received
his uniform and equipment for the
matches which were to be held a
week later. From there he was
sent to Fort Benning, Georgia,
where for seven days he practiced
rifle marksmanship on the Fort
Benning firing ranges.

Following this he went to Camp
Perry, Ohio. There, on the banks
of Lake Erie, the National Rifle
Association Championship Match-
es were held. “Twice each day, for
seven days, including Sunday,”

Monty said, “we fired against the
best teams from all over the coun-
try.”

In actual competition, the team
fired in the National Individual
Trophy Match, the President's
Match, and the National Team Tro-
phy Match. The team placed third
in the latter contest.

The Third Army ROTC team
consisted of seven members. Be-
sides Littlejohn from Davidson
College, two members of the team
were from North Carolina State,
one from the University of Ala-
bama, two from Wofford, and one

(Continued On Page Four)

Business-Eco. Club Men
Hear 3 Business Talks

Approximately fifty members of
Davidson's newly formed Business-
Economics Club attended the or-
ganization’s first meeting of the
year Tuesday night in the College
Union ballroom.

Tom Lambe introduced three
prominent Charlotte businessmen
who presented short talks on the
theme “Three Ways Up the Lad-
der” and how each found it.

Mr. Ed Burnside, Sr., President
of the Home Finance Group, Inc.,
told of his turn from college pro-
fessor to business leader. He
stressed the need for college men
going into the credit business and
the necessity for hard work of a
newcomer into the fields of busi-
ness.

Mr. George Dowdy, Vice-Presi-
dent and General Manager of

a
RX >

——

Shown above is the Board of Directors of the Business-Bconomics

Club as named earlier this year.

Belk’s of Charlotte, told of his
rise in the Belk organization and
urged business students to take
advantage of their opportunities.

Mr. John Watlington, Senior
Vice-President of Wachovia Bank
and Trust Company, called for use
of common sense by business as-
pirants. He particularly noted the
number of Davidson graduates be-
coming associated with Wachovia
—at least one each year.

Following the messages, the
floor was opened for questions
and discussion, and light refresh-
ments were served.

Club officers are completing
plans for a debate, “Truckers ver-
sus Railroads,” featuring speakers
from national associations in their

November meeting.

From left to right: Tom Lambe,

Harley Smith, Austin Strand, Treasurer Cortez Cooper, Secretary
J. Roy Davis, President Gayle Averyt, Vice-President Stebbins In-
gram, John Buxton, Henry Brown, and Bob Stogner.

The United Nations Seminar for
Students will be held November

Littlejohn was chosen a| quarters in New York.

This seminar is sponsored each
year by the National Student
YWCA-YMCA so that American
students might have an opportuni-
ty to see the United Nations in ac-
tion.

One hundred fifty students from
all over the country will be ac-

SAE DIETICIAN, DIES

Che Hautdsontan

NUMBER 4

SAM DONAHUE TO LEAD

IFC’s HOMECOMING BAND

’

SMITH WANTS HELP

Shaw Smith announced today
that students desiring work in the
Union or on the campus should
sign a card to that effect in his of-
fice immediately. (

All men who signed up last year
and still want work are urged to
sign another card right away in
order to maintain the priority rat-
ing they held last year. Jobs are
given on the basis of need, priori-
ty, and performance.

Student Opi

Favors Court Ruling

BY DICK MORBHBAD

In continuance of the policy | practical.

founded last year, the Davidsonisn
conducted this week the first.in a

Mrs. Leonura McSweeney Elkins, | ries of monthly student opinion
dietician at the SAE boarding/ joys on national and local issues.
house for a number of years, died! moce polls are not designed to in-
suddenly of a heart attack last! uence opinion but rather to es-
UN Student Seminar | se: "

Mrs, Etkins was born in 1891 at/thought on important issues con-
Hampton, S. C., the daughter of] cerning the entire student body
Miles and Martha Porchet Mc-| and to create interest in them.

Sweeney. Her father was a former
governor of South Carolina and
founder of the Hampton Guardien.

Her husband, the late Capt. John
W. Elkins, served as PMS&T at
Davidson until his death in 1935.
Mrs. Elkins remained in Davidson
as dietician at the SAE boarding
house.

Mrs. Elkins was a member of
several local organizations, includ-
ing the American Legion Auzill-
ary, the “As You Like It” book

cepted for membership in this} club, Ramah Home Demonstration

year’s seminar. These students still
have an opportunity (1) to attend
the General Assembly of the Unit-
ed Nations; (2) to learn about the
work of the ‘specialized agencies;
(3) to meet United Nations dele-
gates from other countries; ’'(4) to
interview members of the Secre-
tariat; and (5) to visit the United
States mission to the United Na-
tions.

The registration fee for the
seminar (including the seminar
banquet. A sightseeing tour, one
breakfast and one luncheon) is $10.
Room and board for the three-day
period will cost approximately
$15.00. ‘

Anyone interested in attending
the seminar may make all neces-
sary arrangements with Sam Ma-
gill in the YMCA office.

Attention... !

Membership cards for the Y. M.
C. A. are available in the Y office

Club, North Mecklenburg Business
and Professional Women's Club,

tablish a valid register of student

The poll this week was conduct-
ed by 25 representatives from all
four classes; gathered cross-sec-
tion views from 52 percent (433)
of the student body; and covered
all six dormitories, Carolina Inn,
The Village, and five boarding
house residences.

The question asked was: Are you
in favor of the recent decision of
the Supreme Court with regard to
segregation? The results in per-
centage and total were: For: 48.7
percent (211); Against, 44.6 per-
cent (193); Undecided, 6.7 per-

and St. Mary’s Episcopal Church cent.

of Long Creek.

The main opinions expressed in

Mrs. Elkins is survived by one | favor of the decision (in order of
son, three daughters and four bro-| Popularity) were: It is the only

thers.

Christian decision that the Su-

Funeral services were held at|preme Court could have made;
Cathey-Hoyle Funeral Home in| equality of education is only mor-
Davidson. Members of the SAE fra- | ally, socially, and ethnically right;
ternity acted as honorary and ac-| it grants the Negro his legal rights

tive pallbearers.

according to a just interpretation

No arrangements have been| of the Constitution; desegregation
made to fill the vacancy at the| in education has to come some-
boarding house; however, meals|time, and we are as ready for it

are still being served.

Biood Drive Reset
For December 6, 7

The Red Cross Blood Drive, orig-| coincident growth in

now as we ever will be.

The main opinions against the
decisions were: The cultural, edu-
cational, and moral standards of
the Negro race are not good
enough in comparison to the stan-
dards of the white race to allow
education;

inally scheduled for the Davidson | the South is not ready for the re-
campus on October 14 and 15, has| sults which this decision will bring
been cancelled and redated forjas desegregation must be more

December 7 and 8.
In years. past

gradual and naturally adaptable to

Davidson has|both races involved; the effects of

On the basis of college records.
the following facts of interest to
this pol! were obtained. Of the
840 students enrolled in Davidson

Sam Donahue, acknowledged by the musical world as the
most exciting tenor sax star in the country, will bring the
celebrated Billy May Orchestra for the first time to the David-
son campus for the annual IFC Homecoming Dances on Oc-

tober 29 and 30.

(

or

SAM DONAHUE

Photograph Salon
Will End Saturday

The last week of Photography

College, approximately 97 percent | Magazine Traveling Salon will end

are from the South;
from .the “deep” South, of which
55 percent are from North Caro-
lina; 97 percent are church mem-
bers, of which 55 percent are Pres-
byterian, Of the 640 expressed pro-
fessional interests, 25 percent are
pre-medical, 25 percent pre-busi-
ness, and 18 per cent pre-minis-
terial with the remaining 32 per-
cent diversified or undecided. |

yet representative, comments were
made by the students who conduct-
ed the poll. “Few seemed to have
concrete facts to back up their ar-
gument, indicating hereditary and
environmental influence on’ thelr
positions.” “Some feel that the
abolishment of segregation should
have come about through the
churches, not legislatively.” “Those
opposed to the ruling were more
decisive and clear in their convic-
tions than those who favored the
ruling.” “Though many favor the
ruling, they can not see how it can
be made to work.” “Generally, up-
perclassmen were for the decision,
freshmen were against the ruling.”
This poll taken by: J. Trawick,
B. Daniel, B. Gallier, G. Robertson,
E. Moore, B. Fraley, D. Carmi-
chael, M. Miree, J. Ballenger, T.
Thompson, J. Brooks, L, Carter,
S. Wallace, B. Beall, J. Trotti, D.
Hood, S. Ferguson, F. Jordan, A.
Myers, J. Wilson, B. Sloan, W.
Miller, W. Harris, and A. Cone.

Jones Will Deliver
Vespers Meditation

Dr. James A. Jones, pastor of
Myers Park Presbyterian

78 percent | Saturday, October 16, 1954.

This array of prize-winning pho-
tographs has been on exhibit in
the ballroom of the Union since
October 2, and it has drawn much
favorable comment from all who
have scen it. Davidson is the only
place in this area where this salon
has been presented.

the sponsor. Admission is free,

ete —

Those who have not been in to
see this unique collection are urg-
ed to do so before Saturday. The
Some of the following general, | pnavidson College’ Camera Club is

Donahue was selected by May
to lead the band on its present
nation-wide tour after May. signed
an exclusive contract with Capitol
Records that requires him to re-
main permanently in Hollywood.

Besides his renown as an out-
standing tenor sax star, Donahue
has also had a long and distingu-
ished career with his own band,
recording on the Capitol label and
touring the leading ballrooms, col-
leges, hotels, and theatres through-
out the land. ,

Because of this diversified and
distinguished background, it was .
only natural that Billy May should
turn over the leadership of his
band to Sam Donahue.

“Though the Billy May Orches-
tra under Sam Donahue will be on
the road,” May said, “I will keep
a hand in its activities and oversee
arrangements. But my work with
Capitol will of necessity keep me
in Hollywood where I will have to
devote full time to these arrange-
ments and those of the other art-
ists on the Capitol label.”

The Billy May Orchestra, in its
short, meteoric rise to fame, has
been winning critical acclaim
through its public appearances and
recordings as one of the top dance
bands in the country.

a a “~ne

AMERICAN CHAMBER ORCHESTRA HERE
TUESDAY; BEGIN ARTIST SERIES FOR 54-55

—!|Publications Short Cours

maintained one of the highest do-|this ruling will lower our stan. | the ‘
nation percentages in the country,|dards and will be detrimental to| Church in Charlotte, will deliver! Tuesday evening at 8:15 The
and Red Cross officials have prais-| our way of life as well as the life | the Communion Meditation at Ves-| American Chamber Orchestra,
ed the student body for its recep-|of the other race; do not favor | Pers this Sunday. Robert Scholz conducting, will
mixing of the races; would not be| After graduating from Davidson | open the Davidson Artist Series
College with a B.S. degree, Dr./ with a concert in Chambers audi-
Jones attended Union Theological |torium. The group consists of a
Seminary isi Richmond, Va., where’ basic ensemble of sixteen wind
he earned his Th. M. Hampden-Syd- | and string instruments augmented
ney College later awarded him the | by additional instruments accord-
honorary doctor’s degree. Dr.|ing to the requirements of the
Jones has also done graduate work | scores.

at New College, Edinburgh Uni- Making its Town. Hall debut in
versity, Edinburgh, Scotland. 1950, the orchestra has now taken

on the second floor of the Union
for all students, Y. Secretary Sam
Magill has announced. Students
may pick them up between 8:30
and 4:30 Monday through Friday. | tion to the bloodmobile.

Four Students To Attend

which touches perfection,” com-
mented the reviewer of Le Can-
ada.

The New York debut of the or-
chestra marked a high point in the
brilliant career of Robert Scholz,
which began in Upper Austria
shortly after the turn of the cen-
tury, At 19 he studied with the
Austrian pianist-composer Felix
Petyrek at the Mozarteum in Salz-
burg. Later he and his brother
toured Europe with great success

Four Davidson students will rep-
resent the local undergraduate
publications in the 1954 Associat-
ed Collegiate Press Short Course
and Conference to be held in
Washington, D. C., on Thursday
and Friday, October 21-22.

Swaix Loy, editor of the college
annwA, Quips and Cranks will at-
tend the convention with his busi-
ness manager, Bill Jenkins. Henry
Brockmann will represent the
Davidsonian at the conference.
Hank Daniel will attend as photo-
grapher for both publications. The
four student representatives plan
to leave Davidson by automobile
Wednesday afternoon, October 20.

The conference will begin Thurs-
day morning with lead-off talks by
Roscoe Drummond of the New

~ |York Herald Tribune and J. Rus-

sell Wiggins, managing editor of
the Washington Post. Further talks
and conferences during the course
of the day will feature Fred L.
Kildow of the University of Min-

nesota, Professor John Tebbel of
New York University, and Harry
H. Lunn, Jr., President of the U.
S. National Student Association.

Newspaper Seminar Sessions
during the conference will be led
by editors and writers of the Wesh-
ington Post and other experts, and
will include meetings on such top-
ics as The Sports Page, News Re-
porting and Coverage, The Editor-
fal Page, Feature Writing and In-
terviewing, Headline Writing, Copy
Editing, Freedom and Responsibili-
ty for the College Press, etc. News-
paper Business and Ad Staff ses-
sions will also be major features
of the convention.

The yearbook representatives
will have busy days. Experts will
be present to ask and answer ques-
tions about photography, art work,
color, copy, captions, heads, bind-
ing, ete.

Hank Daniel, photographer for
both The Davidsonian and Quips

and Cranks, will attend the confer-
ence to take advantage of

its} on ha October oe to March its place among the established
: , he was one sters | musical organizations of New York
course on photography. Adrian L.|from the Presbyterian Church, U.| and of the nation. The chamber

TerLouw, educational consultant! s> to visit the mission fields of the

. orchestra, founded as The Mozart
to the Eastman Kodak Company | world. He spent part of this time| Orchestra, began public perform-
will conduct an eight-hour session.| with the American Presbyterian :

He is currently a member of the
Educational Coinmittee of the Na-

Congo Mission meeting at Lake
Munkamba in the Belgian Congo in

tional Press Photographers Asso-| agricg,

clation which is working toward After visiting numerous mission | City. It was here that Mr. Scholz,

better training for future photo-
graphers in the field of journalism.

Other clinics similar to the pho-
tography clinic will be held on the
subjects of Makeup and Typogra.
phy and Newspaper Makeup.

A reception for all student dele-
gates will be from 7 to 9 p. m.
Thursday, and on Friday evening
in the Presidential Ballroom of the

stations and outposts, Dr. Jones
flew to Brazil where he visited sev-
eral other missions of the Presby-
terian Church. While on this depu-
tation he preached to the mission-
aries and natives, and in addition
held conferences with the native
pastors.

At the request of the Board of

ances after many years of experi-
ment and training which began in
the Music School of the Henry
Street Settlement of New York

an Austrian, realized that the
young Amtrican musician is equal,
if not superior in many respects,
to the highest of European stand-
ards.

The repertoire of the orchestra
includes classical and pre-classical
compositions as well as works of
the modern era; perfection of de-

Hotel Statler there will be a final| World Missions and the American | tail and delicate tonal balance are

banquet and dance.

Presbyterian Congo Mission, Dr.
Jones again visited the Belgian

The four Davidson representa- Congo in 1952.
tives to the conference will return! py, Jones is a member of the|of sound produced by this group

to college.in time for the opening | Board of Trustees of both David-

of classes on Monday.

son College and Queens College.

the aims of the chamber orchestra.
rather than mere volume of sound.
“The proportions and the quality

were a delight,” said the Mon-
treal Daily Star; ‘‘a tonal balance

as a piano team and in the thir-
ties they were heard on three con-
cert tours of this country. Scholz
conducted the Cleveland Orches-
tra in his own orchestral setting
of Bach’s monumental “Art of
Fugue" at Town Hall and at the
Bach Festival in Ohio.

Today Robert Scholz is consid-
ered an outstanding authority on
Mozart, having edited that com-
poser’s piano works for the Uni-
versal Edition. In 1937 he was
made an honorary professor of
the Mozarteum. Following the
Nazi's occupation of Austria he
established permanent residence in
this country and became an Amer-
ican citizen. Since then he has
made a high place for himself in
the field of orchestral education,
as well as becoming a composer
of some note. In 1950 Mr. Scholz
was awarded the Bruckner Medal
for his performances of that com-

(Continued On Page Pour)
