T° HOT D VINSOFI

olwe IT uly 8, 19 riber
SUTITTH SC DA. FLAS!
—— . 7 nie *
Er, Smith hes inf-rmed + that the v Chen tre ae rer chia te
Ac cerry A ard winner “You Con't ‘iske it a featine ru SI f 3 3 1G nemes if
with You" will be chomm Saturday nicht on e-eaving (Lit obusord 2-2 an Benes «
tie prt.c of the Gtucent Union. ‘This cnict, 2 CTO-7'G CUT
horrt caine coiecy stars Jean 4rthur, fits. the finil rounds of the Singles
fic. al arrvrore, , Simny Stevart, 7nd toyrnement Dick talencace anc canes :-ont
Aznold. ould like to vrge all gonery stil] -ppear as top c ntencors.
_ tho Tan to he on the c mpus at Doubles catcher yi)l start 1ond~-,
, tire to sec it. Ber ce itcurr-t ©. ORRO + GHT
C-, raest rial eon’ const~.v1v wooing ‘le sumer >ridre tourna cnt vill be
vO" pple held in the "nien ‘llreor beginning to-
Chor?ic MASSCY alnost foints after nieht at 7:30. Tea s perticipating -re
omaliin fin er in siolory l-b to test requeste? to arrive on tire. ‘The follor
seit for unknown ciscases, Dick iv testis hav isnec to play Al I'av
s Jar *-y7 $+, .? es 7 a
ore cuts on hie less fro wit’ ruch and Jeannette Verrcanlt; Phi}. Stavber an
é. seen ; ; ; Non Tucker: Edo Deuglas and l'arr Rroun-
Udo gets beaten heel: tn union bil- lee: ‘arner Hal? ond Julicn ‘einberg-
1 rd lounge, Sut sueers vrevenrc.... Teens e ‘arris snd Bill Corvon- Joe Ric-
le . " ’ ‘ - on Me ‘ . .
Con ployine "flashlite g:res" with dle ane Cheeze To. vert: 31) Shvfors anc
late ce jue studcentia.... LT) Dare Carl ccekson ne -tic'w ienso
< let te UV 83 rma lt . os ’ +
, Dien t Clark ail Gore Rece and gobn Boyett and rank ~' 7- and Sidney
Ponnie “ritson look svect in crarcl hart ond Charlie Bron.
this morring....
Jecally Pharr vets a date
acaliy t. fate for vownaner JAMMER

"rolics,...Tic Ine!: Some girls have....
Don iiassev cos to sleep in ry room _ os
hile I an typing this parer. Tie US US KOnPD KORVER
Tid Bi] Matt iuvent che gane of Sunday Hi, ht Suffet Supper
Have vou heare it spoken of as being

bricge??? “ Ww " :
Yeah, Roper, give up rn, you've had The Country Club of tho South or beinz
iteees goor crourh to coc back ‘o the car‘ us
Bere for at Sunday nicht? Iell maybe if you
— haven't heard it stated quite like tht
SUI TR FROLTCS at least, you have heare quite a few
In the, ficl¢ of social activities, compli: ent-ry things s ‘d avout tie Sun-
the surmer vrovr'1 is quic'.ly crving to day ltivht Feast in the Union Dining Roor
a close. Last ni hit the 1st. icdnesday Prob:bl, at tines during the weck, as fe
riigit socarl, Y'All Como, vas hold on the as you're concerned, the kitchen his an
terrace. Jt was-a2 pient ‘atermeclon Cut off: cay and cocesn't serve cxact™* whi -
ane vas ‘ill avtenced. like to cat, but cven the most particulz
For tue final procra:: of the sumer, ones of us are boune to find at least <
The Sumer .ctivities Cormittec is nlan- cherry tart or salxd pl-te that please i”
ning ° seri-form1 cenee to > held on due to the ‘rico veriety of wcll preprrec
the night of Julv 16 (Priday), fooe th.t Mr. Murph and the kitchen

The Fancc, Sunmrer Frolics, 'd1] fe *vre have nlannce «nd coo! ee just for us.
"The Lorronxen" who uill furnish re” ov, Try the dcliciovs shrimp topped with Nec

carce’h}e ~usic. Tho Drnec "A123 begin vourg Sauce. (note the tastc of sherry in
at 9:00 P. M. rnd refres'rents will be the s-ucc).
sevved ot intorrvission. Feevlty, corc—Stuecnts, come. Take
Tickets -i71 *o en s Xe on Sa: “urday, ful} acvantarc of the last two Sunday
July 10, AL May and Ray "“arding will HWieht cals.
se in charee of these t:ckct sales Hats off to you, lir. .urphy and the
fict:ets sre $1.00 2 cowple and 475. for kitchen for the wonderful Sunday Nicht
stars, supocrs.
For the iast time this swicr. Y'All Sec you in the Dining Room Sunday nigt

Core,
