PAGR TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1964

Dean Bailey's Surprise Resignation
Terminates Faithful Tenure

Doubtless the news of Dean’s Bailey’s resignation as
Dean of Students comes as a surprise to the student body
just as it did to the Davidsonian. To say that it was unexpected
is to say the least. .

Certainly the college loses one of its most earnest and
conscientious administrators, and one who was not content to
do second best on any duty or detail that faced his office.

Dean Bailey gained the reputation of being firm, but
scrupulously fair in enforcing the rules of the college, and
in carrying out his obligations. If a man ever took his job
seriously, surely Dean Bailey did, and in doing so he won the
admiration and respect of the student body.

It was the seriousness with which he bore his burdens
which exacted a heavy toll on his time and endurance, and
led his family and friends to a serious concern over his health.
Though not broken in health by any means, Dean Bailey felt
that to continue in his position would soon put his physical
welfare in serious jeopardy. So this week he sent his letter
of resignation simultaneously to both President Cunningham
and Dr. J. M. Richards, President of the Board of Trustees.
Upon accepting his resignation, Dr. Cunningham expressed
his own sincere appreciation of the devoted manner in which
Dean Bailey has served the college during his 13-year tenure.

Students Prefer Own Choices
To Free Union Exhibitions

The College Union seems to be passing from the status
of a new and not completely accepted entity to that of an
established campus institution.

Director Shaw Smith has made it plain to those who
have talked with him during this transitional period that
the Union is operated principally, though not exclusively,
for the students, and that their criticisms and suggestions are
welcomed.

Through this medium therefore we offer both criticism
and suggestion.

It seems to us that the Union could cut its operating
expenses at some points with a view of eventually reducing
the present Union fee of $15.00 and eliminating the section
of student thought that maintains that the Union is some-
what lavish with the students’ money.

For example the recent purchase of a number of books
which ranged from’ outdated photography annuals to a
catalogue of sculpture has raised the question of whether the
Union is extending itself in an unwise direction. The occa-
sional free exhibitions which have included in the past every-
thing from monkey shows to electronic musicians also cost
the Union money. From some comments we have heard re-
cently this money could be better spent, or not spent at all.

On the other side of the ledger, the improved quality of
movies that have been appearing on the screen of the ball-
room recently has been quite well received. It seems to us that
most Davidson students ,would rather pick their entertainment
and pay a nominal fee for it, than see the money from College
Union fees devoted to bringing some of the more or less

last

How’n YA Do

Puerto Rican Fanatics Put U.S.
At Disadvantage In Cold War

The display of violence put on
by the four Puerto Rican fanatics
in the House of Representatives
Monday was unfortunate
enough in that five members of
that body were wounded, two
seriously, But just as important in
the overall picture is the effect
which this occurrence could easily
have on the tense international
political scene.

For years we have been using as
one of our most important weapons
in the Cold War the fact that the
people living behind the Iron Cur-
tain are virtually enslaved, since
the governments they must live
under do not govern in their in-
terests and are actually no more
than puppet regimes with al] the
strings being pulled by the men
in the Kremlin. By constantly re-
peating this fact in the propa-
ganda war, and at the same time
pointing out that our method is
one of freedom and democracy, we
have usually maintained at least
a draw in the Cold War.

Russians Given Advantage
But the Puerto Rican episode

The Trustees have crossed the
moral Rubicon in athletics. By
their recent action of asking the
college to underwrite the athletic
subsidization program, they clear-
ly defined the path down which
Davidson is going toward probable
athletic chaos.

Now they not only have recog-
nized, through direct implication,
the rabid alumni organization, The
Wildcat Club, but also they are
advocating the very athletic evil
which Davidson supposedly is op-
posed in its very basic principles.

The amateur athletic organiza-
tion which Davidson says it ad-
vocates—witness Dr. Cunningham's
speech at the All-Sports Banquet
last spring—and the brand of sub-
sidization to which the Trustees
would commit us, are mutually
contradictory. The very fact is
that they cannot coexist, but the
Trustees would have one hand do
what the other does not know
exists. .

It is to be expected that most
students and many alumni will
say of the change effected by the
Trustee, “A good thing. About time
Davidson did something. Maybe we
can win a few games now. It's about
time the college did its part for
athletics in finally coming to the
aid of the Wildcat Club.”

All this thinking represents just
the emotional reaction to the emo-
tiona) appeal of putting more
money into athletics that some
greatly desire.

Beneath the action (that of sub-
sidization) there lie devious and
slippery paths of thinking and
action which have been followed
to great sorrow by many collegiate
institutions of the North and North-
east particularly.

Let me explain my own position
in this matter so that there will
ve little misunderstanding of my
purpose. Your writer is not op-
posed to athletics per se, and he
has spent many enjoyable and
profitable hours working and play-
ing at a number of sports. .What
is entirely odious to him is the
corruption of the amateur athletic
program through the commerciali-
zation of athletics that has taken
place in so many colleges and uni-
versities in the country and which
seems about to take place here.

As Mr. John Payne put it, “There
are two ways in which the
Trustees’ action may be judged.”
The first is the overall moral ques-

i
\\'

be
ie

WOO

ry Bor > o.k 2

By DICK ROPER

clared unqualifiedly to the United; anyone who hes knowledge of the
Nations that if the people of|true situation in Puerto Rico that
Puerto Rico asked for total inde-|the people of that Atlantic island
pendence from the United States] are not oppressed by American
he would recommend such action| imperialists, as the fanatics would
to the Congress.” have the world believe. This should
Have Rejected Independence give even greater credence to
It is also important to note that} the assertion made by Gov. Munoz
Puerto Ricans have “rejected inde-| that the Puerto Rican Nationalists,
pendence at the polis several|to which the Capitol fanatics be-
times,” according to an Associated | long, have less than 500 followers
Press report. out of the island’s total popula-
As a further refutation of the] tion of 2% million.
fanatics’ avowed cause came the] But even though our diplomats
resolution adopted by the popular-| may have the truth in their favor,
ly-elected Puerto Rican Legislature |the fact is that they may very
condemning the attack in the| possibly find themselves behind
House as the work of “fanatics|the eight ball at the Inter-Ameri-
and terrorists” and an aggression} can Conference and at the United
against our own people.” Nations. This is just the type situa-
And Governor Luis Munoz Marin | tion that the Russians love to seize
of Puerto Rico stated that the peo- upon, and it is pretty certain that
ple of that island have voted over- they will twist and distort the epi-
whelmingly on four occasions to|sode to the best of their abilities.
uphold their present common-! All we can do in opposition is to
wealth status in which the island] wage a vigorous campaign to give
elects its own officials and runs|the world the facts of the situa-
its own affairs, rather than seek/tion, and hope that our diplomats
outright independence. will be able to utilize effectively} tion involved, with several perti-
Dissatisfied Element Small all the skill they possess when} nent appending questions, and the
Thus it should be obvious to' confronted by this issue. » wisdom of the move is the second.

is bound to give the Russians a
wealth of ammunition in the fight

“exotic” entertainment to the campus.

By JIM MOORE

The moral question involved has*
lately resolved itself to this: Is
paying a student for playing a sport
for his alma mater the morally
right action? Also is it morally just
to make up athletic scholarship
funds from the general fund of
the college? .

In discussing morals this writer
does not pretend to be an authori-
ty, nor does he wish to be regarded
as a self-styled purvey of public
morals. There is a point in prag-
matic ‘analysis where a certain set
of values—call them morals or
right standards—must be intro-
duced.

Far more capably than I could
hope to have done it, Clifton Fay-
dmn's article on the evolution of
intercollegiate athletics and its al-
ternating present-day evils which
appeared earlier in the Davidso-
nien, clearly revealed the course
that progressive commercialization
takes. In his article, he showed
how the up-the-ante tactics of
many schools had led them to
eventual greater control of the
institutions by influential (wealthy)
alumni and the athletic depart-
ments.

In the past Davidson has been
woefully lacking in providing ade-
quate facilities for carrying on a
program that would “train body as
well as the mind.” One might in-
terpose the question at this point
of whether or not Davidson is not
being dictated to too much by
athletic-success-minded alumni and
the athletic department.

Surely there is coming to be a
greater investment in the players
themselves, when over $100,000.00
has gone into athletic scholarships
in the last four years. Certainly
there is a great investment in such
a gymnasium as ours and: in im-
provements in the football field.
The coaching staff is today much
larger than it was not too many
years ago.

With progressive alumni in-
terest in winning teams, the in-
vestment tends to increase. The
Wildcat Club has never met one
of its four goals yet, and now in-
stead of the expected greater par-
ticipation in the club, I predict a
decrease. The reason for this is
that they have reached the depth
of alumni support they can gain,
and interest will continue to lag
unless a winning season is forth-
coming. More important, though,
is the assurance that the college will
make up any deficit, so there will
be no real incentive to reach a
higher goal.

It has been interposed that the
Sreater pressure on the college to

Trustees Cross The Rubicon
With Dollar Signs Blazing

tration to get the money in. This
is added with the knowledge of our
leader’s fabled ability to raise
money and with the full facilities
of the Alumni Office to back the
drive. Stil} it must be noted that
the Alumni Office is now the cen.
tral collecting point and chief or.
ganizer for the Club’s activities and
that Dr. Cunningham is already
fairly busy raising money for
dormitories and such.

But if there is a winning season
and the Wildcat Club happens to
reach its goal of $36,000.00, then
the Trustees will probably feel that
the college has been able to sub-
sidize the athletic program so far
and should continue to do so to
the same extent they have In the
past. The Trustees will then raise
the underwriting by the same
amount the college has contributed
in the past.

This evolutionary tycle comes to

a great jolt when the Wildcat Club .

again fails in its effort to reach
its goal. Then, great pressure is
brought to bear on the college to
keep up the level of subsidization.
Here is where coaches and alumni
truly begin their pressure on the
college to do what is necessary to
get a winning team—lower stan-
dards for the n>ressary men, offer
greater inducements (money) to
students to come to play ball, and
hire big-name coaches who have
the ability and experience to
handle winning teams at all costs
to the players, and to coddle the
proper alumni.

Now this is a fairly hypothetical
picture and it is one not difficult
to imagine happening here; only
it is a little difficult to pick out
the picture from the generally
slower moving alumni of Davidson.

We might recall that it was only
four short years ago, in the spring
of 1950, at the Red and Black foot-
ball game that year, that the first
real movement ‘for the Wildcat
Club crystallized into the em-
bryonic organization that soon

grew and developed into what we .

have today.

In the final analysis we have
to ask ourselves what role David-
son should play in education and

athletics. The guiding light must ‘

necessarily be that Davidson is
first, foremost, and ultimately an
educational institution. The in-
telligent and intellectual life of
the college must come above all
else or soon Davidson will fall from
gtace (divine or earthly) and suf-
fer greater loss of prestige than
athletic victories can bring in re-
compense.

It is this writer’s understanding,

t

to sway the minds of those who
doubt or are uncertain as to which
cause is right (particularly in Ger-
many, Itely, France, and the
Middle East).

Mrs. Lolita Lebron, leader of the
group, stated after the shooting
that she and her cohorts had only
committed such an act in order to
dramatize the “cause for Puerto
Rican independence” at the begin-
ning of the current Inter-American
Conference in Caracas, Venesuela.

To make matters worse for the
U. S. in the propaganda war, a
note found in Mrs. Lebron‘s purse
after the shooting made it appear
even more certain that the four
had really been working for the
cause of Puerto Rico against an
allegedly imperialistic America.

Mrs. Lebron’s note stated in
part:

“Before God and the world my
blood claims for the independence
of Puerto Rico. My life 1 give for

We certainly do sot advocate stripping the Union’s
budget, but everyone would welcome a reduction in the
Union fees if one would resuit from the eliminating some of
these less popular features.

(Ed. note: The following
article contains excerpts from
the March 1 issue of Time and
is printed with their permis-
sion.) ;
From Cotton Mather to Joseph

McCarthy, Harvard, “the most di-
versified, individualistic and non-
conformist of U. S. universities,”
has taken on all comers in the fight
for liberal education.

“It was Harvard that, in 1636,
transplanted the seeds of liberal
learning to the New World, and
it has been Harvard more than
any other institution that nourished
it and made it grow,” Time, The
Weekly Newsmagazine, said last
week (March I issue) in a cover
story on President Nathan Pusey
and Harvard’s pioneering role in
U.S. education.

Defender of Tradition

By declaring that the purpose of
their college was “to advance
learning and to perpetuate it to

Election Speeches By Themselves
Inadequate Criteria of Ability

With spring come student body elections once again.
This time, happily, a little earlier than usual, thanks to the
farsighted planning of the Student Council.

With -the type elections we have at Davidson there is
perhaps less occasion for editorial comment than would be
the case under different circumstances. Probably the quiet
sort of system we have is as good as any for electing men to
most of the present student body offices.

We might say, however, that care should be taken not
to allow the chapel speeches made by candidates for some of
the major offices to exert the wrong kind of influence, proj the freedom of my country. This
or con. It is all too easy to vote for a good speaker rather | is a cry for victory in our struggle
than for the man with the best qualifications for a specific, for independence. Which for more
job. Sometimes the two go hand-in-hand, but not necessarily. | ‘8a @ half century has tried to
Content is the thing to look for, not rhetorical ability. Songuer that land that belongs to

Puerto Rico.” ” Harvard's founders
Fanatics Accomplished ‘made a decision that has set the

tone of U. S. higher education ever
since . . . Harvard is not only a
university, it is also a state of mind.
Nowhere is the pursuit of knowl-
edge carried on with more intensi-
ty,” Time says.

Nathan Pusey, 24th president,
first non-New Englander and
second non-Bostonian, was an ap-
parent nobody when he was named

Purpose
Thus it should be obvious that
whatever other effects the violence
in the Capitol may have, Mra.
Lebron and her two companions
have certainly accomplished their

stated purpose. .
Although no proof has yet been
offered, preas reports have stated

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

Jima Moore, Dick Roper

Assistant Editors Buddy ee Ng ray ane Charles Heo that there is evidence to suggest|to the position in 1069. “By last
Ratios Hean B oO aF er J] that the Puerto Ricans were Com-|week both Harvard and the na-
Managing enry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney [| monists or connected in some way | tion had come to know him better.

Réitor John Handley

News Faltor .. Austin Strand Feature Editor — Bill Moffett

Ast Editor ______ Fd Price Photographer ___. Andy Simons
Assignments Blake Brinkerhoff

Ed Nicholson

with the Communist conspiracy.
This, however, is beside the
point. It will be to very little avail
in the Cold War that Secretary of
State John Foster Dulles, notified
at Caracas of the unfortunate af-
fair in the Capital, stated that “The
people of Puerto Rico, by their
own choice, have freely chosen
their own status, and no later than

In his own quiet way, he had nat
only won over his faculty, he had
also emerged, by virtue of his of-
fice and his personality, as the elo-
quent defender of an ancient tradl-
tion.”
“Unremitting Vigilence”

When Pusey became president he

was charged with the task: “to pur-

Individual, Nonconformist Harvard Leader
Joins Fight For More Liberal Education

every field of knowledge, no mat-
ter where the trail leads, no mat-
ter how unpopular the result.”

For his predecessors the road
has not always been easy. The
“colledge” had barely started when
President - Henry Dunster was
forced to resign for holding the
view that infant baptism is ‘un-
scriptural.” In 1796, the college
press was under fire for printing
a “popish” book and President
John Leverett himself came face
to face with the formidable Cotton
Mather, who fulminated at the
reading of “plays, novels, empty
and vicious pieces of poetry, and
even Ovid's Epistles, which have
a vile tendency to corrupt good
manners.”

Panics and Passions

Under President Edward Holyoke
(1737-69), the Harvard Overseers
demanded an investigation of
tutors suspected of “holding
dangerous tenets,” and in 1747 citi-
zens began agitating for an oath
of loyalty to Calvinism. In 1880 a
committee of the General Court of
Massachusetts denounced the cur-
riculum as too intellectual.

“Through wars and panics and
all the passions they bring,” Time
says, “Harvard’s theme never
changed. The age (1869-1909) of
Charles W. Eliot ... was a golden
age for the university, when such
men as William James, Josiah
Royce and George Santayana
flocked to its faculty, and colleges
and universities across the U.S.
fell all over themselves trying to
follow its lead...”

Seaips and Sanctuaries

World War I brought shrill de-
mands for the scalp of German
Psychologist Hugo Munsterber, and
the ‘20s brought more of the same
for Socialist Lecturer Harold Laski.
In both cases, President Abbott

sue, with unremitting vigilance, in-| Lawrence Lowell (1900-33) stood
last fall President Einsehower de quiry into fundamental truths in‘ his ground. “If the Overseers ask

meet the Wildcat Club goals willjsained from the Davidsenten
be enough to cause the adminis- (Continued On Pege Four)

for Laski’s resignation,” he said,
“they'll get mine.” ’
Pusey, “perhaps the most ubi-
quitous president the university
has bad in years,” has played
senior defense counsel to the a we Ds |
academic world beyond Harvard,|  A,/(A (cD,
Time says. While president of Law- ian N'9) 9 ~@ K4
rence College in Appleton, Wiscon- N aS) Ki prs
sin, he was a sponsor of a cam- BD
paign pamphlet against his fellow
townsman Joseph McCarthy. Since
then the junior Senator from Wis-
consin has blasted Pusey and
painted a picture of the university
as “a privileged sanctuary for Fifth
Amendment Communists.”

Old Story to Hervard

Says Time: “It was all an old
story to Harvard — as old, indeed,
as the whole university tradition.
The concept of academic tenure is
a delicate one that has grown up
partly because the teacher has his-
torically been a favorite target for
attack.”

“It is simply another way of
saying that a man's mind cannot
exist half slave and half free, that
if a scholar is to operate effective-
ly on the frontiers of his field, he
must also be accorded the rights
of any other citizen to differ and
dissent outside that field. Harvard
has refused to fire four teachers
who invoked the Fifth Amendment
because they are not now members
of the party, have never been found
guflty of espionage, and have

A:
e S
wat bhs' . Ane G

Las? of the Pioneers

“Since the advance (of learning)
has never ceased, the modern Har-
vard and its peers in U. S. educa-
tion have, in a sense, become the
last of the pioneers, operating on
a frontier that is never conquered.
But as Nathan Pusey has already
found out, pioneers are rarely pop-
ular. They are threatened from

(Continued On Page Four)

GOTTLED UNDER AUTHONTY OF THE COCA-COLA COMDINT BY

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.
“Coho” le © tegivered wode.mack.

a
©1953, nus coca-cou commer
