VOL. XLII

Commenting on the YMCA forum] Reports have been encouraging,
on “Power Politics and Moral Re-| Some fraternities had faculty mem-
sponsibility,” Ed Stuart, chairman|bers to speak, but enthusiasm
of the forum committee, said this|seemed to be highest where stu-
week, “Everything went accord-/ dents prepared and led the dis-
ing to plan. Dr. Clyde and Mr./ cussions themselves. We hope that
Lefever did a good job, and our|the idea can be examined further
Jocal speakers, Dr. Guerrant and| and used for topics which are not
Dr. Spencer, did an excellent job,| quite so broad as this one.”
also.” Stuart also said that since many

The one-day discussion held on| expected a clear clash between
Tuesday consisted of a morning|the two speakers, some may have
presentation in chapel by Dr. Paul|been disappointed by the out-
H. Clyde, professor of History at|come. On the other hand, those
Duke University, and Mr. Ernest| who stood on either extreme—the
W. Lefever, associated with the/cynics and the professional
National Council of Churches of|moralists—found their ideas chal-
Christ in the U.S.A., informal aft-/lenged by both Dr. Clyde and Mr.
ernoon discussions, and an eve-|Lefever.
ning panel discussion in which the| “It is just like the quotation
principals were aided by Drs.| which appeared on the program,”
Guerrant and Spencer. Dr. Frontis|he said “ ‘Those who would treat
Johnston moderated. politics and morality apart will

Stuart expressed disappoint-| never understand the one or the
ment with the attendance at the/ other.’”
forum, but added that success can-| He warned that although
not be judged by numbers. He/| theology had been kept out of the
also said that some mechanical de-| forum intentionally, the theologi-
fects were noticeable, such as the} cal implications of both speakers
10-minute limitation on the chapel|/cannot be ignored. (Several im-
speeches. promptu forums between students

When asked about the fraternity|Tuesday night dwelt on the
group discussions held in advance | theological side of the question.)
of the forum, Stuart said, “This}| In evaluating the forum, Stuart

is one of the most hopeful notes.} said, “The forum pointed out not

only the realm of what is and
what ought to be, but a third
possible realm of what can be, what

Max Lerner called ‘the realm of

Artist Series Will
Present Isaac Stern jtcns reer Py ela

America’s foremost young vio-jtions we can hope to extend the
linist, Isaac Stern, will appear inj realm of the socially and political-
concert in Chambers Auditorium | ly possible.
at 8:15 p.m. on Saturday, Feb-/| “A helpful result may have been
ruary 13. This popular young|‘confusion on a higher level,’ as
artist, familiar to fans of radio,| Mr. Lefever expressed it. But I do
television, and recordings, will give | not think the question need be un-
a program of favorite violin selec-| resolved. Although there is to be
tions. no organized follow-up, informal

Mr, Stern’s concert here is one| discussion of the topic would be
of fifty-five he is currently mak-ja good thing.”

ing across the country which in- -
VESPERS & CHAPEL

clude appearances with such or-

ganizations as the Boston, Chicago,
ewes » and Los Angeles Or. Sunday, Feb. 14

Sir Thomas| 7:30. p.m. — Vespers — President

Last November,
Beecham, conductor of the Royal] John R. Cunningham.
Philharmonic Orchestra, performed Monday, Feb. 15

10:20 a.m.—Chapel—Dr. Goldiere.
8:00 p.m.—Lingle Chapel — Mrs.
Rowena McCutchan will speak
on “World Missions.”

Stern is no stranger to the Tuesday, Feb. 16
movie-going public, for it was his 10:20—Chapel—Dr. J.
music heard on the sound track Wilson.
of the films ‘“Humoresque” and Wednesday, Feb. 17
“Tonight We Sing.” He is also 10:20—Chapel—The Reverend A.
well known to radio, television, i. Kissling, D.D., Riverside Pres-
and record fans, for his recordings| byterian Church, Jacksonville,

| through- e
bee tacos bestairs throweh| Tl purday, fab 1

The popular young artist will| 10:20—Chapel—YMCA_Day.
perform here on his priceless 250-
year-old Guarnerius. Among the Ss. V. M.
selections that he will play are in- At « business meeting test
cluded Brahms’ Sonata in D Minor,| wednesday night the SVM
the Suite of Rameau-Ysaye, and group here elected Joe Grier
the ever-popular La Campanella of] chairman end Al Myers sec-
eae aie es will be admitted to the} ‘erery. The group else decide’

to ado; an orgen a

concert aren presentation of their v° ensie study program.

with Stern, The London Times re-
ported: “A player in the front rank
of violinists has dawned on our
horizon.”

Southall

The Davidsontan

ALENDA BLUR UB) ORTA CLIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1954

“y” FORUM TERMED _ Dillon Accepts Post
SUCCESS BY STUART As Promotion Head

Of WBT and WBTV

John Dillon, publicity and place-
ment director of the college since
1951, announced his resignation
this week in order to accept a
position with the Jefferson Stan-
dard Broadcasting Company in
Charlotte. He will leave Davidson
Monday to become promotion
supervisor of stations WBT and
WBTV.

Mr. Dillon joined the Davidson
public relations office in Septem-
ber, 1951, succeeding Lacy Me-
Lean as publicity director and as-
sistant alumni secretary. In these
capacities he was responsible for
newspaper and radio publicity, the
alumni journal, and publicity from
sister institutions; in addition, he
handled job placement activities
for seniors. .

John Payne, director of public
relations, said that no successor
has been named for the position,
although a number of applicants
are under consideration, and that
the post will be filled in the near
future,

After his graduation from Wake
Forest College, Mr. Dillon served
as assistant director of the Wake
Forest News Bureau and subse-
quently as continuity director of
radio station WPTF in Raleigh un-
til coming to Davidson. ,

The publicity office was created
under John Payne’s public rela-
tions department shortly after
World War II with a student, Lacy
McLean, in charge. At McLean's
graduation Jo Thigpen was em-
ployed to fill the position full-
time. After a year at Cornell, how-
ever, McLean returned to David-
son and Thigpen was moved into
a newly-formed, separate athletic
publicity office.

PARKING, PUBLICITY
DISUSSED BY GROUP

The Davidson College Student.
Faculty Conference Committee
held its fourth meeting of the
school year last Friday Feb 5, with
the chairman, Dr. Jay H. Ostwalt,
presiding.

The committee, whose main
purpose is to work out specific
problems pertaining to the college
life and program through student-
faculty co-operation, discussed va-
rious problems that have arisen in
the past few months. Things in-
cluded in the discussion were col-
lege publicity, increased parking
space for students, the college's
athletic policy, and the cut sys-
tem.

The committee is collecting im
formation about the parking sit-
uation to be included in a report
which will be presented to the
faculty, in the hope that some-
thing mutually agreeable to both
faculty and students can be worked
out. °

In the discussions about pub-
licity, it was agreed that the com-

(Continued On Page Four)

Linker’s Hunch Pays Off;
Fields Awaits Jury Action

By TOM WARLICK

After four days of notorious
murder and plunder, Jennings
Fields is now behind bars in De-
Kalb County jail in Atlanta await-
ing grandjury action on March 1.

Should the grand jury return a
true bill, Fields will stand trial in
Atlanta for first degree murder.
Theoretically, Fields faces possible
death in the electric chair or the
gas chamber on at least 27 counts.

Mecklenburg County authorities
have filed a detainer against Fields
so that if he should ever win his
freedom in Georgia, he will be
tried in Mecklenburg County for
first degree burglary, a capital
crime in North Carolina.

Entire credit for the detection

and capture of Fields is being| immediately to the DeKalb Coun:
given to Davidson's night watch-|ty Jail. A

man, Ed N. “Cop” Linker. It was
Mr. Linker who spotted the

bandit’s car parked beside the
College Union in the early hours

of Thursday morning.

Had it not been for Mr. Linker’s
alertness in copying the license
Humber of the car, Mecklenburg
County police frankly admit that
the bandit would probably never

have been caught.

As a gesture of appreciation, a
sum in excess of $175.00 was do-
nated by the students and faculty
at the close of the chapel period
Monday. This sum was presented
to Mr. Linker by President John
R. Cunningham and Lyman Kiser,
President of the Student Body, in
appropriate ceremonies at the
chapel period Wednesday.

Meanwhile, Students Martin Foil
and Joe Jenkins were taken to At-
lanta by two Mecklenburg County
students, were
selected out of the group of those
who saw or spoke with the bandit
as the most able to identify him.

officers. These

mental agility to apoplexy.”
Rapid fire events which led from
the early morning robbery here to
the death of a DeKalb County
policeman and subsequent capture
of the criminal were as follows:
Jennings Fields, 30, a resident
of Chamblee, Ga. a fashionable
suburb of Atlanta, apparently en-
tered Davidson at one am. on
Thursday, February 4. While here
he entered the rooms of 24 stu-
dents in three dormitories taking
$371.50 and a wrist watch valued
at $100.00. It was during this time
that Mr. Linker (ook the Hcense
number of the bandit’s car.
Upon leaving Davidson around
§ am., Fields proceeded to Flor-

Association for Business-Economics Students Begun

a

i

$$ ee
The members of the recently organized Business-Economics Association are, from left to right:
Gayle Averyt, Professor Morton, Don Reid, Professor Griffin, Sem Sells, Bob Owens, Tom Ligon,
Angus Hagins, Vince Gould, Ben Craig and Jim Cannon, Corter Cooper was absent when the pic-

PALMER PRINCE
OF PIANO:

SENIOR SKETCH

NO. 14

.|D. C. Catalogue To Be
Biannual Publication

The 1954-55-56 Davidson College Catalogue, for the first

time published biannually instead of annually, is due from the
printers by the end of this week. This new policy will necessi-
tate a 16-page supplement in 1955. Davidson is the first col-

ture wes made.—(Photo by Simons.)

Arriving in Atlanta early Tues-

day morning, the two were taken | ence, S.C., where at 8 a.m. he tele-

graphed $325.00 to his wife in At-
lanta. Upon the basis of tentative
identification it seems that the
robber proceeded to Clemson
which he robbed on Friday morn-

ing.
In the meantime warrants had

lineup was arranged and
each boy was sent through sepa-
rately. Both Foil and Jenkins posi-
tively identified the man as the
dormitory bandit.

Foil, who saw the | bandit been sworn out by Mecklenburg
SE nine shadow ofa County authorities for the arrest
doubt” that Fields was the bandit. | of Fields. These were telegraphed
Foil described the behavior of the|*° DeKalb County authorities along
bandit as “ranging from extreme (Continued On Page Four)

BUSINESS-ECONOMICS
ASSOCIATION IS FORMED

As a result of many years
of planning and study, David-
son now has a club to repre-
sent the largest segment of
the student body-—the David-
son College Business - Eco-

nomics Association.
This ascoctation -har-the unique

feature of being organized in the
form of a corporation and plans
to carry on its general activities
in corporate fashion.

At the inaugural meeting on
Monday, February 1, the follow-
ing officers were elected: Bob
Owens, President; Ben Craig, Vice
President; Tom Ligon, Secretary;
and Jim Cannon, Treasurer.

The other founders include Sam
Sells, Vince Gould, Angus Hagins,
Don Reid, Gayle Averyt, and Cor-
tez Cooper. These students will
serve as members of the Board
of Directors for the remainder of
this semester.

The Davidson College Business-
Economics Association is a local
organization. Several national
honorary societies in economics
and business were considered, but
it was decided to organize locally,
giving to the association greater
flexibility, lower expense, and the
distinction of becoming an ef-
ficient locally formed organiza-
tion.

The purpose of the association
is to create enthusiasm for a sound

Greek Week Successful;/ GUIDANCE PROGRAM |Midwinters Dances
BEGUN BY OSTWALT Scheduled fo Begin

Betas Take Field Day,
Sig Eps Have Best Skit

The third annual Greek Week,
which is sponsored by the Inter-
fraternity Council, got underway
Tuesday. Each fraternity  ex-
changed part of their pledge class
for the evening meals on Tuesday
and Wednesday. This exchange
helps to foster a better fraternity
spirit on the campus.

The second phase of Greek
Week was put on Wednesday aft-
ernoon under the direction of Max
Devane, who is chairman of the
Greek Week committee of the IFC.
The field event was finally de-
cided upon since no suitable com-
munity project could be found.
This event consisted of an obstacle
relay, a cumulative broad jump, a
jump stick relay, and a shuttle
dash relay.

Placing first in the obstacle re-
lay were the Betas with Sigma Chi
in second place and’ the KAs in
third. The time for the Béta team
was 1:13.6 minutes.

In the cumulative broad jump
the Betas jumped 64 feet and 1%
inches to take first place. Run-
ning them a close second were
the Pikas with 63 feet and 98
inches, and the Phi Gams were next
with 62 feet and 10 inches.

(Continued On Page Four)

knowledge of the principles of
business and economics, and to
increase the student's interest in
his work. It believes that this en-
thusiasm can best be* aroused by
bringing together faculty members
of the Business Administration
and Economics Departments and
members of the association on a
basis of common interest and un-
derstanding.

The association is to serve as a
medium through which guest
speakers can be invited and en-
tertained. These speakers will be
prominent business men, econo-
mists, government officials, or la-
bor leaders and will present mem-
bers with an opportunity to ob-
tain an additional wealth of prac-
tical knowledge and experience.

Membership -in the association
will be based primarily on personal
interest and initiative rather than
upon grade qualifications. Juniors
and seniors who are majoring in
business and economics and other
students interested in business
who express the desire to join will
be considered eligible for mem-
bership.

The active members will elect
the Board of Directors, which in
turn will elect the officers of the
association. The board will also
consider and elect new members.

The club plans to present sev-
eral programs during this semes-

The Vocational Guidance office,
under the direction of Professor
Ostwalt, is offering a rather new
service to the members of the stu-
dent body. This service, instituted
here last year, provides a free
system of guidance tests to any
student wishing to take them.

These tests are divided into three
general types—the academic tests,
the vocational tests, and the re-
medial reading tests, which are
still in the experimental stage.
There are of course many different
types of tests under each of these
headings.

The academic tests are mainly
for those students who are having
a difficult time in’their academic
subjects. There are a variety of
tests offered under this heading—
English, Math, Culture and Apti-
tude are a few of the various
points touched.

The vocational guidance di-
vision of the tests in composed
mainly of preference and interests
tests, which are given to aid Pro-
fessor Ostwalt in his personal coun-
selling to the student. The depart-
ment has, in addition to the tests,
a room containing information in
books, charts and other pieces of

(Continued On Page Four)

PLAYMAKERS PLAN
‘Ay | THE HASTY HEART

The Red and Black Masquers
have begun the second semester
under the leadership of President
Bob Mims with plans for two ‘pro-
ductions.

In a change of style from the
two productions of the fall semes-
ter, the dramatics group will pre-
sent two modern plays. One of
these plays, “The Hasty Heart,”
is already in the process of cast-
ing and lining up the properties
and other essentials for the play.

Very successful tryouts were
held for the parts on Tuesday and
Wednesday of this week, with more
than twenty persons providing the
competition for the few parts. This
play will be produced in March and
the other possible play will be pro-
duced in conjunction with the
Fine Arts Festival. Interest has

'

because of its recent success and
acclaim from critics in both the
Broadway and Hollywood versions
of the play.

An initiation was held at the
regular meeting of the group
Wednesday night at 8:15 in the
Dome Room in Chambers, At this
initiation the following were re-
ceived into membership: Sandy

. MeGeachy, Albert H .
ter which it feels sure will be of Myers, ona Vereen Bell, is an °

great interest to all the members.| these men have worked with sev-

Near the end of this month the| eral of the Masquers’ productions
association plans to bring several] ang on the basis of that work they
prominent businessmen on thelwere chosen to receive bids to
campus to speak and lead the | membership.
group in a discussion of the gen-
ai peri. “Business Opportanity | tunity for anyone who is intérested
—Not Security. in helping with the production of
On March 29th the Charlotte] ine play, “The Hasty Heart,” to
Sales Executive Club plans to hold] work during the next few weeks.
its monthly meeting on the David-| Anyone who is interested should
son campus jointly with the Da-/ contact Martin McGirt or any other
vidson College Business-Economics| member of the Masquers.
Association,
This meeting will feature panel
discussions, a dinner, and a main COLLEGE DRAFT TEST
speaker. The Charlotte Sales
Executive Club is composed of TO BE GIVEN APRIL 22
some two hundred and fifty of| Ail eligible students who intend
the most outstanding businessmen] to take the Selective Service Col-
of Charlotte. lege Qualification Test in 1954
This club has shown an interest! should file applications at once
in the formation of the Davidson|for the April 22 administration,
College Business-Economics Asso-| Selective Service National Head-
ciation and expressed the desire quarters advised today.
to work closely with the associa-| An application and a bulletin of
tion in the future. information may be obtained e
At the last meeting of the Board| 2"Y Selective Service local board.
Following instructions in the bul-
of Directors on Monday night,/ietin, the student should fill out
elections were held for new mem- his application immediately and
bers. All newly elected members| mail it in the special envelope
will meet with the board at the] provided.
association's next meeting, Monday, Applications must be postmarked
February 15, at 7 p.m., in the|"° later than midnight, March 8,
Green Room of the College Union, | 1954. Early filing will be greatly
to the student's advantage.
Results will be reported to the
student’s Selective Service local
board of jurisdiction for use in
considering his deferment as a
student, according to Educational

A Week From Toda Testing Service, which prepares

Midwinters weekend is set to|/and administers the College
get under way only a week from | Qualification Test.
tonight, and a full program has
been scheduled for the occasion.
Ralph Marterie and his band will
lead off Friday night at nine for
the formal dance, at which the
Queen of Midwinters will be
crowned. {

Deadline for entires in the con-
test for Midwinters Queen is Mon-
day. Sponsored by the College pub-
lications, The Davidsonian, Scripts
‘N Pranks, and Quips ‘N Cranks,
the contest will be judged by a'Was on sabbatical leave from the
committee including representa-;College for the purposes of re-
tives from all three publications|search study and writing.
and two outside members. From June until November his

Trumpeter Marterie, who has|headquarters was at the beautiful
one of the most popular bands in| Watts home on Cape Cod. While
America today, will sound off Sat-|there Professor Watts made regu-
urday afternoon in Chambers Audi-|lar trips to Boston and Cambridge,
torium for the always popular con-| working in the Harvard, New
cert. England Deposit, and Athenaeum

informal Dance libraries.

The informal dance from eight} The main object of his attention
to twelve Saturday night will|during this period was the com-
round out the events of the week-|pletion of the chapter entitled
end, “The French Protestant Writers of
Joe Neisler, chairman of the In-/the 16th Century” for the second
fraternity Council decorations| valume of A Critical Bibliography

(Continued On Pege Four) of French Literature, being pub-

By TOM

Dr. G. B. Watts, Professor of
French, has just returned to
Davidson from an extended re-
treat in New England. Dr. Watts

There will be plenty of oppor-

Professor G.
Back From New England

lege in this area to have a biannual catalogue.

The biannual plan will estab-
lish a considerable saving for the
college, and ultimately for the
students, due to a larger first
order a single make-up serving
for two years, and by lowering the
number of catalogues necessary for
those who formerly acquired one
each year.

Another economy move is that
each student will not receive a
free copy as in the past. Copies
will be sent to parents, prospective
students, and other interested per-
sons, The present catalogue was
designed mainly for public rela-
tions and to provide information
on the entire Davidson program.

The Courses of Instruction sec-
tion is of primary interest to most
students. For this reason it will
be published separately from the
catalogue, and made available to
the students.

The cover and general appear-
ance will be the same as the
1953-54 edition. Only minor
changes will be evident in the new

been keen in “The Hasty Heart”! catalogue. The Courses of Instruc-

tion section will be on ivory paper
rather than the dapple gray of last
year. This section will present the
courses offered for 1954-55-56,
which should facilitate the stu.
dent’s plans for his academic pro-

am.

In 1953 the Davidson Catalogue
won “honorable mention” in a na-
tion-wide contest sponsored by the
American College Public Relations
Association, which places it as one
of the five best college catalogues
in the nation.

This catalogue, as well as the
one to be released this week, was
edited by Dr. Spencer and printed
by Dowd Press, Inc., of Charlotte.

Guest Artist Cook
Io Conduct Recital

Henry M. Cook, organist of St.
Philip's Episcopal Church in Dur-
ham, will be guest artist for the
next organ recital at the David-
son College Presbyterian Church,
Sunday afternoon, February 14, at
4:30 p.m.

Mr. Cook is a graduate of the
Oberlin Conservatory of Music and
is a former organ student of Fen-
ner Douglass, Arnold Blackburn
and Claire Coci. He has been at St.
Philip’s in Durham less than a
year, having served the Church of
the Good Shepherd in Rocky Mount
for three years.

Sunday’s program will open with
three contemporary pieces and will
close with works by Bach, revers-
ing the usual chronological pro-
gram arrangement.

Four “antiphons” by Dupre, the
“Third Sonata” of Hindemith and
Philip Gehring’s “Fugue in D” will
make up the first half of the pro-
gram, and the second half will
include Bach’s “Prelude and Fugue
in B Minor,” the “Andante” from
the ‘Third Trio Sonata,’ and the
“Prelude and Fugue in D Mafor.”

There will be no admission
charge for the recital, but an of-
fering will be received to help de-
fray the expenses of the series.

B. Watts

WARLICK

lished by the Syracuse University
Press.

He served from June to Septem-
ber as acting managing-editor of
The French Review.

In addition Dr. Watts wrote sev-
eral research papers and articles
on late 18th Century French lit-
erature, with special emphasis on
the forgotten editions of the
BEncyelopedie.

The trip was not all devoted to
work, however. Dr. Watts has his
own home on Cape Code at which
he and his wife and daughter have
vacationed regularly for twenty
years.

He participated in the weekly
gacht races of the Orleans Yacht
Club and went on occasional fish-
ing trips. Among his visitors dur-
(Continved On Page Feur)
