FRIDAY, APRIL ‘23, 1964 ; THE DAVIDSONIAN .

Wildcat i tine ™ o' lit Citade,

Davidson Netters To Hits! (indermen tu | Contest With Bulldogs
NC State Here Thursday) wwe -one= Highlights SC Competion

By RANDY JOHNSTON
The Davidson varsity track team Davidson's varsity baseball team plays host to The Citadel

Coach Dick McKee’s varsity tennis team plays host to| will take a trip to Columbia, S.C, next Friday in a contest which holds the Southern Conference
N.C. State and Miami University next week in the final|/tomorrow for a three-day meet spotlight for the action of next week. The Bulldogs are cur-
matches of the season for the Wildcat netters. On next Thurs- rently leading the conference, while the Davidson club is in
day, N. C. State will be here for a match that finds the David-

with the Gamecocks of the Uni- =
fi : .
versity of South Carolina and the third place. Citadel will remain for a second game Saturday.
son team highly favored. State lost a 9-0 decision to Duke in Davidson was the home club in

PAGE THREE

Well, it’s that time
again. With the forth-
coming dance week-
end all set and ready
to go, Davidson sports
once again take a back
seat to the female visi-
tors on the campus. All
Davidson sports en-
thusiasts, whether play-
ers or spectators, relax
and enjoy tnemselves.
Sports are out of the
picture. That is—ex-
cept for thirty lonely
Davidsonians who will
spend tomorrow in Co-
lumbia, S.C. represent-

7

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Citadel Bulldogs. The Davidson
team has shown much improve-

—,

oe, |

——_ 6

ing Davidson on the cinders there. Coach Pete Whittle’s boys
are to meet the University of South Carolina. and The
Citadel m a _ triangular meet tomorrow. Therefore
there will be little dancing for the Davidson cindermen.
And why? Who knows. We've known since early in March
that Spring Frolics weekend would be on April 23 and 24.
Yet no attempt was made to re-schedule the meet on another
date. What’s wrong down there in the Davidson Athletic Of-
fice? Is a schedule that hard to change—that a date can’t be
moved a month in advance? Let’s get on the ball. These boys
work out hard during the spring months so that Davidson
can do well in track. They deserve at least one small con-
sideration.

Last Tuesday was the day for Honor Chapel, and when
the time came for the Tommy Peters award to be made, Johnny
Gray was given the honor. This is one award at Davidson
which represents something beyond achievement in the ordi-
nary sense of the word. Tommy Peters came to Davidson in

_ 1941. He was the outstanding freshman athlete of that year,

and in 1942, he moved up into varsity competition. In his first
year of varsity competition at Davidson, he won four letters.
He was a first-line end in football, and he played one of the
starting infield positions for the diamond crew. But basket-
ball.was where Peters really shone. In the Southern Confer-
ence tournament of 1943, Tommy led the Davidson team as
far as the semi-finals. He fouled out of that game with less
than a minute left to play in the semi-final round, and David-
son lost in an overtime. Tommy was selected as the most
poputar player in the tournament and was a unanimous choice
for the All-Conference team. .

But Tommy Peters was more than just an extraordinary
athlete. He played the game hard, but he also played it fair.
He was what Davidson students today often scoff at — “a
Davidson gentleman.” He truly represented the “Davidson
Spirit.”

In 1948, Tommy Peters, like many other Davidsonians,
went into the Armed Services. And when the war was over,
he was one of those who didn’t return. He might have been
the greatest Davidson athlete of all time. His brother George
was the first recipient of the trophy, and we might add here
that George was quite an athlete himself.

its last outing and should be easy pickings for the Wildcats.

Miami, on the other hand,
brings one of the top teams in the
South to Davidson next Friday.
With a year-round warm climate
that encourages practice, the
Floridians consistently come up
with fine teams which make
trouble for the best teams around.

Tomorrow, the Wildcats are on
the road for a Southern Confer-
ence match with the Indians of
William and Mary. It will be the
only conference encounter of the
campaign prior to the Southern
Conference tournament which will
be held next month. This afternoon,
the Cat netters were to take on the
Duke tennis team at Durham in a
match that was rated a toss-up.

Win Two

The Davidson netters played
two matches this week and emerged
the victors in both contests. On
Monday, the Cats defeated Kala-
mazoo College's touring team, 5-4,
and on Tuesday, Wofford invaded
the local courts and was defeated.
Bremer was the only Cat man who
was extended to three sets, as the
Davidson team won every match
for a 9-0 win.

SPEs, Phi Gams Lead
Greek Softball Race
At Mid-way Mark

At the mid-way point in the in-
ter-fraternity softball competition,
the SPEs and the Phi Gams. are
pacing the league. The two clubs
have both remained undefeated
thus far, but the SPEs have won
more games than the Phi Gams, so
they hold a slim margin in the first
place position.

ment as the season has progressed
and will carry an experienced and
strong team on the trip.

In previous meets, the only weak
spots have been in the field events.

Phi Delis Near Title
in Inferfrat Tennis

With only one match remaining
on their schedule, the Phi Delts
appear to be on their way to a
second consecutive inter-fraternity
tennis championship. The Phi Delt
combination of Buford Price and
James Montgomery has beaten
every foe thus far, and only the
ATOs’ remain in the way of the
crown.

The SPEs and the KAs were
still holding strong positions until
this week when both clubs lost to
the Phi Delts. Several other com-
binations have played very few
matches and could move up fast
at the last moment, but it appears
that none will be able to move
into the top spot.

Actual standings of the league
are unavailable at this time since
many matches are in progress but
have not been finished. The Betas
have now won seven matches and
have lost only one, and their com-
bination will probably finish the
season in second place. Competi-
tion should be finished within a
week, and final results will be
announced. Several matches have
not been played, and some forfeits
may result.

Frosh Tracksfers
Complete Schedule
With Lenoir Rhyne

improved since the opening meet.

Carrying the brunt of the attack
in the track and field events this
season are: Captain Bill Shipley;
the versatile sophomore, Phil
Koonce; Homer Sparks; Floyd
Feeney; Frank Mitchener; Tim Gil-
ley; Harry Peterson; and Harley
Smith.

Clemson Wins
. In a three-way meet last Satur-
day, with Clemson and Wofford
furnishing the opposition, the Wild-
eat cindermen finished second.
Clemson edged past the Cats by a
slim, 77-75 margin, while Wofford
only got 11 points to finish third.

Coach Whittle was pleased with
the showing of the team. Davidson
took seven out of fifteen first
places. Phil Koonce was the big
gun for the Red and Black. Koonce
walked off with three first places
and was one of the runners in the
winning ‘mile relay team. The first
places came in the 100-yd. dash,
the 220-yd. dash, and the broad
jump.

Homer Sparks finished first in
the mile, and Bill Shipley won the
gruelling 440-yd. run. Floyd Feeney
won the two-mile run for Davidson
to complete the sweep in the dis-
tance events. —

However, these have been much].

wee
aN
an.“

4

ry

a ed
Senior Johnny Bremer has

shown his usual fine brand of
tennis in recent matches, and
has been a big factor in the
wins of the team this year.
Johnny plays the No. 2 post
and is part of the No. 1 doubles
team.

BULLETIN

Davidson‘s tennis team won
its initial Southern Conference
match of the season yesterday
in a match which was moved
up efter having been original-
ly scheduled for tomorrow.

Traveling to Williamsburg,
Va., the Cats watloped William
end Mary, 9-0. Lecy Keesler
defeated Carl Spies, 6-1, 6-0,
in the feature singles match
of the day. Johnny Bremer
teamed with Keesler to beat
Spies and Heern, 6-2, 63, in
the No. 1 doubles match.

two contests during this past week,
and the Wildcats split the \ pair
of decisions. On Wednesday, the
semi-pro McCrary Eagles invaded
the local diamond. After trailing:
for the major part of the ball
game, Davidson scored three runs
in the bottom half of the ninth
inning to emerge the victor.

Behind, 6-4, after 8% innings,
the Cats loaded the bases on a
walk to Kiser, a double by Buzz
Hope, and a walk to Bill Rowland.
Then Hicks, the McCrary pitcher,
walked Stowe to force in a run.
Billy Morris brought in the tying
run from third base with a clean
single to left, and Max Dexane
watched four balls go by and
strolled to first as the winning run
was forced in.

On Thursday, Lenoir Rhyne met
the Wildcats and defeated the
local club for the second time
this season. Earlier this season, the
Bears took a 3-1 decision over the
Davidson Club at Hickory. This
time the Bears came out on the
long end of a 8-7 score. Ish Bennett
started for the Cats and was coast-
ing along fine until the fourth in-
ning, when the roof fell in. The
Bears knocked Bennett out of the
box as they scored five runs in the
frame. A three-run homer into
leftfield was the climax.

The Cats almost pulled another
final-inning rally as they scored
three runs in the ninth. But the
rally fell short when the Bear’s

(Continued on Page Four)

Davidson Golfers
To Meet State
in Return Match

The Davidson golf team over-
whelmed the Furman linksters in
a one-sided affair, 1642 to 1% last
Wednesday. Graeme Keith sparked
the Wildcats in the match, shoot-
ing a brilliant 69. Joe Jenkins and
Skipper Hall turned in two fine
performances also. Jenkins had a
72 while Hall shot a 74. This win
brings the season record to 5 and
4 for Davidson. The Cats are now
looking forward to the Southern
Conference Tourney at Richmond
on May 7 and 8.

Next on the schedule is a re-
turn meet with the N.C. State
golfers. In their previous encounter,
State shaded the Wildcats by
three points at Charlotte. The
Davidson team travels to Raleigh
on April 27 to take on the Wolf-
pack again.

VMI and VPI are the next two
opponents to face the Wildcats, who
travel to Virginia for these meets.
On April 29 the home team faces
VMI at Lexington and travel to
Blacksburg to take on the VPI
linksters. It should. be noted that
these two are conference foes, and
wins would boost the standing of
the team to a prominent positiom
as the tournament approaches.

Your Wings are

The major leagues have finally gotten into full swing up| The SPEs continued their over-| The Davidson freshman track 2 V2
North, and there is always that question, “Can the Yankees| powering of league competition|/team encountered Lenoir Rhyne ye \\\
do it again?” The Bronx Bombers have won five straight this week as they rolled over the! College here this afternoon in Lz \\ your Pp assport

World Séries championships, a new record for consecutive
wins, and each year, sports fans have predicted that the Yan-
kees Were “through.” Casey Stengle has continued to win,
however, and has another good club this year. Boston Red
Sox and Chicago White Sox fans are convinced that this will
be the year that the New York club won't win. Certainly, both
of these: clubs appear to have the best chance of pushing the
Yankees out of first place. When Ted Williams returns to
the Red Sox line-up, they will be in there fighting for the
lead. But right now, it looks like the World Series will re-
main a New York affair, with Brooklyn and the Yanks meet-

ing again.

|

Cat Scores This Week |". | 2S
SPE 5 0 well-balanced team with strength
. in every event has been the big-
BASEBALL : oom ; ; gest factor in the fine record for
Davidson—7 McCrary—6 Kappa Sigs 3 q ‘the campaign. Bill Gramley, Bill
Davidson—7 Lenoir Rhyne—8 Sigma Chis 21 [ire bcen ‘consistent winners. in
ENNIS: Cotas 2 2 the weight events, and John Robi-
. aves. elts ; 3 son and John Hunter’ have been
Davidson—5 Kalamazco—4 are + 4 [the leaders in the high jump.
Davidson—9 Wofford—O SAGs . 0 4 |Robison also participates in the
TRA e PI Ka 0 5 pole vault and in the dashes. Mal
CK: pps - McSwain has been the Kitten broad
Davidson—-75 Clemson—/77 jumper, and John Holshouser is

Wofford—11 Southern Conference the leading pole vaulter.

HOT WEATHER ?
LORD JEFF KNIT SHIRTS

cool and good looking
Lisles and Cottons

Devideon, N. C.

Phi Delts, 13-1. This marked the
fifth consecutive win for the
leaders as compared to four wins
for the Phi Gams who have had
one bye in competition.

The Pikas have dropped into the
third spot in the league after
losing to the SPEs. They have a
41 record.

Shown below are the softball
standings including Wednesday's
contests. With the game between
the Phi Gams and the SPEs com-
ing up soon, the progress of the
race will start to form, and the
championship may be decided in
that contest.

Nef Mee! Here

Coach Dick McKee has an-
nounced that the Davidson College
tennis courts will again be the site
of the annual Southern Conference
tennis tournament. The tourney
will be held on May 6, 7, and 8,
with the finals being held on Sat-
urday, May 8. The tournament will
be a single-elimination affair with
players advancing to the finals if
they remain undefeated.

Davidson’s veteran ¢rew will be
favored to cop the championship.
Since the Southern Conference has

|| split, leaving North Carolina and

after he suffered a broken finger

what should have beer one of the
toughest meets of the year for
the Wildkittens. This meet marked
the last of a five-meet card, and
closed out the frosh schedule on
the cinders.

Prior to the meet, the freshmen
had defeated East Mecklenburg,
North Mecklenburg, and Myers
Park High schools in a four-way
meet and had crushed the Ashe-
ville School for Boys. The only
loss for the frosh squad this sea-
son was the encounter with the
Mars Hill Junior College team last
weekend.

The frosh tracksters have had

Don Campbell, one of the out-
standing men on the team, has
consistently been the winner in the
hurdles, although pushed by Bob
Heywood and Zel McGee. The dash
men for the Kittens are Jim “Duck”
Covington, Frank Kiker, Rosewell
Mallory, Mal McSwain and Robison.
Pete Ashcraft, the leader of the
frosh cross-country team, has been

the runner in the distance events.

a _— -

Drink wh

erever

Your Air Force wings are your

you go...

an Air Force Lieutenant and

feseeaeaeeane

DY -assscomeereeresseresveraverereses SIOLO,csssoessantanerservean

Duke out of the competition, the °n y |
3 95 o 4 95 Wildcats moved into the favorite’s personal passport to uni lre- ings of over $6,000 a year! ' AVIATION CADET, AFPTR-P-4
° . ° role since they finished third last o ae ’ ° Headquarters, U.S.A.F.
year. O spect and admiration. They’re a They come complete with the ! Woshington 25, D.C.
e ° Willem and Mary, vPL, and ithe O sign—recognized everywhere— admiration of a grateful Nation. 4 Ple nd me informati .
G ase senda me tnjormation on
- who had a sizable sentry in the 4 that mark you as one of America's If you're single, between 19 and ‘ my opportunities as an Air
e 9 9 nt last spring, and none nest. 26%. are to win this passport § Force Pilot.
i fered too well. . » prep passpo:
| Wilson's Men’s Shop Sy Ele wi i tt comi® nx To weer them, you must win to euccess. Join the Aviation $
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” dividual play, and Keesler’s game . them ...as an Aviation Cadet. Cadete! For further information, “°°
: ‘ has steadily improved this season, Mooresville They come with the gold bars of _ fill out this coupon today. aa
|
|

| oma —

playing inter-fraternity basketball
last winter.

Creamery, Inc.

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
