PAGE TWO

Signing Up For Placement
Important For All Seniors

The Davidson College Bureau of Public Relations and
Placement has requested that seniors begin coming by the
placement office on the first floor of Chambers in order to
sign up for job interviews which will begin immediately after
exams.

A good percentage of this student body, like all male
student bodies throughout the country, are pretty certain that
Uncle Sam has at least a short-term career for them as soon
as they pick up their sheepskins this spring. In the past many
of these seniors felt that there was no need to worry about
any other job until their period of military service was over.

As a matter of fact this is anything but the case. This
winter and spring there will be about forty large companies
and corporations, many of them nation-wide in scope, on the
campus to interview prospects. The Davidson senior will
never again have sucn a sterling opportunity to choose and
be chosen from such a wide field.

What is more, almost all of these companies are as will-
ing to talk with the man who is going into service as with the
one who is not. They realize that most of the men they will
be interested in are facing a period in the military, and are
willing to hire a man on the basis that he works as long as he
can before he goes in and then gets his job back when he
comes out. If a man is going into the service immediately
after graduation, most companies will hire him with the agree-
ment that he has a job as soon as he is out of service.

Therefore it will behoove all seniors who are not going
to graduate school immediately after graduating to sign up
for these placement interviews.

Companies represented include Colgate-Palmolive Peet
Co., General Electric, Union Carbide, the Chase National
Bank of New York; and many others equally well-known con-
cerns. Career opportunities will be available im insurance,
textiles, sales, banking, radio, advertising, personnel work,
industrial relations, etc. The average starting salary of men
hired from Davidson by these concerns last year was about
$3,500.00 a year.

Parking Situation In Need
Of Drastic Alterations

The parking situation on the campus is chaotic to say
the least. Though the situation was never ideal the construc-
tion of the new dormitory has made things worse than ever,
many of the few available places having been eliminated.

In order to enforce parking regulations the Dean's Of-
fice has had to raise fines for violations to an exorbitant level
out of line with fines for parking violations in-most other
cities in this area.

The fact of the matter is that the trouble lies in the
Situation and not with any person or office.

We need temporary parking facilities to solve the present
difficulties, as well as long range parking plans to take care

_ Of the steadily increasing number of cars among students.

A very likely solution to both of these problems would be
the conversion of the area behind Watts dormitory and the
President’s home into a student parking lot. Such a parking
lot would offer a solution to the present situation and what
is more would be admirably well situation to furnish park-
ing facilities for the more than three hundred students who
will room in the Belk dorm when it is completed.

Such a parking lot would serve the needs of the student
body not only today, but in the foreseeable future as well.

Watts field, as it is known, was at one time used by the
ROTC for drill, but this use was discontinued last year. About
the only objection of which we can conceive is that of those
who have a distinct aversion of seeing the beautiful green
of any part of our campus fall victim to the “acids of mod-
ernity” in the form of hard-surfacing ahd student automo-
biles.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

Moody Smith

Charley Hasty

Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell,

Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editors Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney

Sports Editor =i‘ htwU#”#OC#JOhn Handley

News Editor — Austin Strand Feature Editor _. T. A. Williams

Art Editor __..___. Ed Price Photographer ... Andy Simons
Assignments Blake Brinkerhoff

Asst. Business Manager Ed Nicholson

Advertising Manager Tommy Taylor

Circulation Manager Dick Little

Collections Manager Tim Cooper

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editors

Fine Candies

Select your favorite from trays of~
Lindt Swiss Chocolates,

David Kopper Chocolates
Perugina Chocolates from Italy
Pascal Hard Candies from England
Bonell’s Chocolates (made expressiy for us)
Jacob's Engish Cookies and many others

131 W. Fourth Se. Tel. 6-8195

DAVIDSON F OR E?

In Defense of Football College

(Ed. note: In view of David-
son’s recently troubled foot-
ball waters we are reprinting
the following article from the
Charlotte News.)

Mr. Fadiman, of famous “in-
formation Please” now emcee-
ing “This ts Show Business,”
won fame originally es book
reviewer for the New Yorker.
He was also one-time editor-
in-chief for Simon and Schus-
fer.

Recently a generous Texas oil
man gave his university $2,250,-
000, saying, “The great spirit and
determination shown by the
Cougars last Saturday in defeating
Baylor fills me with enthusiasm
and prompts me to do something
for our great university.”

We may note in passing that this
marks a new high in undergraduate
earning power. Each of the 11
Cougar (lets forget about replace-
ments) earned for his Alma Mater
$205,545.45, or $3,409.09 per min-
ute of scholarly play, a record that
may well make the chess team
despair.

CLEAR THINKING

But what is important is the
clear thinking behind the Texan's
generosity. His motives may be
criticized by some, but not by me.
In endowing his university ex-
clusively for its ability on the foot-
ball field he showed, I think, an
accurate and honest sense of reali-
ty. And it is high time, like the
Texan, we too cleared our minds
of cant.

A long time ago our colleges de-
voted themselves to the study of
divinity and a few dead languages.
Why? Because we Americans
wanted them to. When we stopped
wanting that, the colleges changed,
and began to emphasize the
sciences and also various tech-
niques for earning a living. Now
a great many of us—students, trus-
tees, alumni and  others—would
like a further change. We would
like to see the college go forward,
develop, begin to devote itself
mainly to the complex art and
science of football. In response
to this deep-seated demand, the
colleges should again alter their
character, and I have firm faith
that they will.

The Texas oil man is not the
only one to face the facts with-
out flinching. The former All-

American back Aubrey Devine, re- ||

calling his brilliant undergraduate
career, puts the matter clearly:
“Education was not our primary
objective but a means to an end,
which was athletics and particular-
ly football . . . I can think of no
greater praise for the game than
to say that boys love it so much
that they will sacrifice for it even
to the extent of acquiring a col-
lege education.”

But why should we exact this
sacrifice, which runs counter to
every instinct of fair play? It {s
time that we recognize the claims
of Mr. Devine, the Texas philan-
thropist and tens of thousands of
other Americans. They represent
the’progressives, just as those who
cling to the notion that a college

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BoYS, THis. 15 Your
COLLEGE UNION

|

By CLIFTON FADIMAN

is an educational institution, repre-
sent the traditionalists, perhaps
even the reactionaries. The split
between them, because it is not
honestly acknowledged, causes
confusion, even unhappiness. Why
only the other day some of the
students of a midwestern college
demanded, after a losing football
season, that the entire athletic
staff be removed. The president,
rutted in convention replied, “The
primary function of Iowa State is
that of research and education.”
Admitting that he has the right to
make such a statement, does that
do anything to assuage the heart-
ache of the football-students?

IMMORAL RELATIONSHIP

These two viewpoints should not
be forced to live immorally to-
gether. The situation is even more
unfair to the football] group than
to the old fogy education group.
Football should be given the status
it has earned, earned often in plain
honest dollars and cents. It should
no longer be thought of—I follow
Mr, Devine here—as an anti-toxin
to the poison of education.

I propose therefore that each
college, taking due account of the
desires of its students and the en-
thusiasms of potential endowers,
label itself for what it is so that
all who run may read or, in the
case of some alumni, have it read
to them. Harvard for example,
would be Harvard E. (E for Edu-
cation) and would attract its own
kind of student, about whom the
less said the better. A college
which has the courage to move
forward into the new era would
advertise itself as Siwash F (F for
Football). In the latter case the
curriculum should be minimum
and preferably on high school level

DAVIDSON

THEATRE
THURS-FRI., JAN, 14-15

“PARIS MODELS”
MARILYN MAXWELL
PAULETTR GODDARD

SATURDAY, JAN. 16

“PRISONERS OF
CASHAH”

GLORIA GRAHAM
CESAR ROMERO
MON.-TUES,, JAN, 18-19
“FLIGHT TO
TANGIER”

GEORGE BRENT
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 20

“THE FAKE”

DENNIS O'KEEFE
COLSEN GRAY

THURS-FRI., JAN. 21-22
“HERE COME THE
GIRLS”

SATURDAY, JAN. 23

“SHARK RIVER”

STEVE COCHRAN

RESERVED FOR |
CONCHING STAFF

OFF-MOORING :

“But, Sir, I need only two hours
more to graduate.”

“I am very sorry, Mr. J. College,
but the faculty ruling on this is
very clear and they never make
an eXception. You are allowed six-
teen hours a semester without the
B average, and then only nine-
teen.”

Thus another Davidson senior
comes to grief in his almost final
semester, as he butts his head
against the ridiculous ruling that
puts him just short of his academic
goal of graduation.

This occurence goes on every
year to the great sorrow of a
select group of seniors. Many a
man’s last memories of his alma
mater are bitter ones of days ill-
spent in a summer school blister-
ing’ with not only summer heat,
but as well the undercurrent
hatred of a system that refuses to
adjust itself to an  individual’s
honest needs, ,

In no department here is there
to be found so uncompromising,
so unsympathetic an approach as
can be noted in the academic re-
quirements for graduation.

There must be a reason back of
all this unfeeling reliance on cold
authority, and there is. It is that
unrealistic approach that says Da-
vidson must protect herself from
her enemies from. without and
from within. It holds that students
must be protected from “over-
loading,” and the college must be
protected from having too many
so as to leave the students free/ men in the classes.
for their real work. The degree/ What actually is. this rule over
granted would of course be | which so much wailing and gnash-
B.F.; the doctorate would be D.F.| ing of teeth is heard? Found on

It is a dismal fact that though|Page 70 of the 1953-54 College
college football no longer needs| Catalogue, it is stated:
any defense, the football college, No student is permitted to
as these words show, still does.| carry less than twelve hours
It’s time for a change. of work without special per-

There’s the whistle—let’s go! mission from the faculty.

No STUDEAT Art

Town oF
CORNELIVS

DAvIDS ON
jmiLe 7

‘’

é

e. a

Your hands on th

WO ae

By JIM MOORE

No student is permitted to
carry more than sixteen hours,
not including basic R.0.T.C.,
unless in the preceding se-
mester he made an average of
8 or better. Under no condi-
ditions is a student permitted
to carry more than nineteen
hours per week, Basic R.O.T.C.
included.

An_ additional charge of
$6.00 per hour above sixteen
hours is made.

The registrar points out what
will happen if you wish to take
more than sixteen hours in your
final semester without that B
average. He said, “You may peti-
tion the Executive Committee if
you wish. I might tell you that
they have never before passed fa-
vorably such a petition. They are
very specific on this.”

Why? You ask yourself, fceling
like a heretic before the Court of
the Inquisition. A man may have
had financial or other difficulties
that deprived him from going to a
summer session carlier in his
studies.

His military training may be
such that he cannot have attended
the past summer sessions. This
same military training may de-
prive him from going to another
Davidson summer school (where
there only is he allowed finally
to earn the necessary require-
ments), thus forcing him to return
for an expensively unnecessary
fall and winter at Davidson.

Individual differences make no
difference here. It seems there is

no way but the right way, the Da-:

vidson way, if you are to graduate
here.

As you may suspect this writer
has also come afoul of the rules.
Don’t surmise then that I am mere-
ly giving vent to a personal griev-

» [,

FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1954

Davidson Still Resounding To
Wails, and Gnashing of Teeth

ance, though I have had occasion
to come in intimate contact with
the situation. There is a valid and
general felt grievance here outside
my own feelings.

The Administration has been
wont in the past few years to ask
itself why it is the butt of so many
student attacks. Until the Admin-
istration recognizes that in those
areas where it continues to act in
unfeeling, unsympathetic, undif-
ferientating ways there will always
be student protests, published or
not, coming from those who feel
injustice to themselves and to
their fellows.

Perhaps the storm that has risen
in the past few years, and is still
raging, is nothing other than the
reaction to years of over-
paternalism.

Our protest is not a spiteful one.
It is one that seeks for something
better. It is one that occasionally
strikes a blow against hypocrisy
and tries to find a better solution
than that which worked twenty
years ago. ‘

At is a critical spirit that finds
its way into the minds of students
today. We, as critics, are still 20
years behind our times, for only
in these years have we caught up
with the self-analysis and truth-
seeking that first began sweeping
across most college campuses, and
our nation, as well, two and three
decades past.

The truly critical men of those
times—H. L. Mencken, John Ma-
son Brown, Ludwick Lewissohn,
Frank Lloyd Wright, Elmer Davis,
Eugene O'Neill, Mumford Lewis,
and others — have now been
eclipsed by a new spirit and are
rapidly passing into the shadowy
pages of intellectual history, a his-
tory attended now, it is true, only
occasionally by scholars and

(Continued On Page Four)

e Future!

When you grip the wheel of an Air Force jet, your hands are on a fast,
high flying future that leads to the top in jet aviation.

@ Once behind the controls of an Air
Force jet, you leave the humdrum of

mercial aviation. Join the many fine
young men who keep their hands on the

HERE'S WHAT YOU DO:

4, Take your high school diploma or
certificate of graduation and a copy of
your birth certificate to your nearest Air
Force Base or Recruiting Station. Fill

2. If application is accepted, the Air
Force will arrange for you to take a
physical examination at government

&. Next, you will be given a written and

¢. If you pass your physical and other

tests, you will be scheduled for an Avia-

tion Cadet training class. The Selective

everyday life...soarfarabovethocares future. Train as an Aviation Ca
of the crowd into a bright new future of You may be ‘tietle
of select flying team, playiog fa the T° qualify as an Aviation Cadet, you
highest stakes of all very of the ‘ust be at least a high school graduate. out the application th
Jor Acel +++ Mastery O| However, you will be of more value to Bpmsaon they give you.
at ge oer toe, because you've the Air Force if you stay in college,
: vn yoursit in your fi sllows and graduate, and then volunteer for train-
in your piane, the fastest and safest fly- ie - pirate You must be between
: an ears, unmarried, and i expense,

n seen world. good physical condition, "

an viation Cadet, you get,
in on the ground floor of jet aviation, %* Win an Air Force manual aptitude test
and best jnstructors. You graduate as an on
Alt Force lieutenant earning over $5,000 + Earn over
@ year... @ man thorou
for leadership in both malar td com. $5,000 A Year

Contact your nearest Aviation Cadet Selection Team
Ale Foree ROTC Unit or Alr Force Recru ’
Or write te: Avision Cadet, Head rae Oem.
U. S. Alr Force, Washington 25, D.C.

Service Act allows you a four-month

deferment while waiting class assignment.

