THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE TWO ,

Student Council Weakened By
Recent Lack of Student Support

After five days of investigation and questioning the now
infamous drinking case was brought to a conclusion by the
executive committee this week. ©

Few people were satisfied about the final disposition
of the case, but few also could agree on what should have been
done. It is indeed unfortunate that the Student Council was
unable to handle the case itself. Any shipping penalties it
might have inflicted would have been accepted in a much
better spirit by the student body than were those decreed
by the executive committee of the faculty.

The whole issue brings into sharp focus, not only the
problem of student drinking, but also the serious question of
effective student government. It is hard to see how this case
can help but effect the status quo here in regard to student
government. The Student Council has suffered from it, and
perhaps lost a great deal of prestige in the student body at
large. This is not, however, the fault of the present Council
any more than it is the fault of the last several Student Coun-
cils, and not nearly so much the fault of either as it is the fault
of the student body as a whole. During the time this writer
has been at Davidson it has been fairly obvious that the stu-
dent support of the drinking rule is relatively weak, and grow-
ing weaker. We have elected officers part of whose duty it is
to enforce the drinking rule, and left it entirely up to these
representatives to catch whom they can—or will; but we have
decided that under no circumstances will we aid or abet the
enforcement of this rule. Consequently violations became
more open, if not more frequent.

The old analogy of the chain being no stronger than the
weakest link can easily be applied to the student government
situation in this case. The presence of a rule that the student
body will not uphold, even if the majority do not violate it,
weakens the whole system of student government.

Therefore the student body can either wipe this rule

OFF-MOORINGS:

THE DAVIDSON STUDENT Bod, FEELING MORE oR LESS
SOME THING OR

BuicaTe) To EXPRESS AN OPINION ON

ANOTHER. DOES So BY STAGING A RIOT OF SORTS .

There is a strong temptation
just now to write on “reflections
of a Davidson chapel speakey,” or
something to that effect. After yes-
terday’s experience, coupled with
another last spring, I have a much
greater appreciation for those
who have been on the receiving
end of catcalls, whistles, hisses,
boos, and other assorted heckling
devices for lo these many years.

The most obvious conclusion
one can make is that the David-
son student body as a group is the
most unkind, the most ungentle-
manly, the crudest, the most un-
couth, the most vulgar, the most
childish group of adolescents mas-
querading as men ever to be as-
sembled in the name of higher edu-
cation.

I will refrain from making
these comments, for they have been
brought out earlier by others, and
in more eloquent language than I
can produce.

Campus Drinking

There is a topic about which I
wish to write which has caused
considerable comment and which
had something to do with the riot
of Tuesday night.

That is the matter of the recent
drinking cases and the subsequent
shipping of several members of the
student body.

Letter to Editor:

By JIM MOORE

in rights and privileges which
make any violation of rules here
different from a violation of laws
elsewhere. We have rights as a
citizen bestowed on us that make
for an entirely different interpre-
tation of the privileges which we
have as students.

There are rules here which are:
(2) set by the student, government
as set forth in its constitution;
(2) those which the faculty, ad-
ministration or trustees set, and
(3) the rules which common prac-
tice and gentlemanly precedent
establish.

There is in the case of drinking
on the campus a rule from each
of these sources to cover the point
involved. Thus there is little re-
course for those who violate the
rules and suffer the consequences.

I believe Jesus disappointed His
nationalistic followers in Jerusa-
lem and his disciples when he
came out for nationalistic obliga-
tions in the questioning of the
coins. He said, “Render unto Caesar
the things that are Ceasar’s and
unto God the things that are
God's.”

Some of the same precepts may
be applied here. If we live under
laws which are unacceptable to
us, we should try by every political
means possible to have the laws

FRIDAY, APRIL 9, 1984

Students Should See Difference
In Our Privileges And Rights

being a Christian gentleman, but
we do not have the right to pro-
test when we suffer because of
refusing to testify.

* The Riot

The motives and actions of a
riotous mob are rarely good things
to behold. It was a curious com-
bination of spring revelry, seeming
oppression, and taut nerves from
reviews that prompted the one this
week,

The most reprehensible and in-
human action that I have ever wit-
nessed occurred in this riot.

The policeman from Davidson
and the one from Cornelius pub-
licly gave their sanction to allow
the man in the pickup truck to
drive through the crowd and try to
hit some students so as to “break
up the riot.”

There has been of late no more
flagrant disregard for the public
interest as this in which these pub-
lic servants gave their permission
to intended manslaughter.

Now if the college does not come
forth and press charges against
the man who attempted the mur-
der of a number of students and
does not request the firing of the
two policemen, it will be discard-
ing its obligation to students and
its own honor.

off the books, leaving the matter to the tender ministry
of the faculty, or they can reaffirm that they think their rule
is still a valuable one by conforming to it and supporting it,
regardiess of whether or not they think there is any moral
question involved in drinking.

These are indeed crucial days for our Student Council,
it can either rethink and consolidate its position, or it can,
like the Arabs, take up its tents and silently steal away.
Without the support of the student body, it may as well do
the latter.

Cynicism Chiet Characteristic
Ot Present Davidson Student

The band swings into the last number on its program,
“O Davidson.” As the members of the student body recognize
the melody, curious things start happening. One student
almost knocks his classmates over getting out of his seat and
heading for the aisle, others follow him. There is an audible
murmur, a moan, a hiss, a boo, and finally a general turmoil.
Within a few moments the senior section is almost vacant,
and others are leaving too. What do they mean insulting our
intelligence with emotive appeals to that thoroughly bestial
sentiment that some call school spirit?

Everybody knows that Davidson, long known for its—
shall we say, “undergraduate enthusiasm”—has now outgrown
such childish trivialities. Her students smirk at those few
naive lads, who profess attachment for this college and any-
thing for which it stands.

This is not an editorial about school spirit, but about
Davidson cynicism—skepticism about all things connected
with Davidson College. The little incident in chapel served to
point up the real unrest and dissatisfaction which at the
present time is the chief characteristic of the student body.
There is scarcely a soul in the upper classes who in the
presence of his fellows will profess even conditional admira-
tion for most of the things for which Davidson stands.There are
perhaps a few believers left, but they have been brow-beaten
into timidity by the majority.

This is, of course, an overstatement in many respects,
but not nearly so much of an overstatement as some mem-
bers of the student body, administration and faculty would
like to believe. What we have here is more than a healthy,
critical attitude, it is a genuine mistrust of the purposes of
the college, if not an open hostility.

What's wrong? We confess our ignorance. One important
and pertinent fact is that Davidson College is a different
school from what it was 30 years ago. The student body is
more urbanized and more sophisticated, and less willing and
able to conform to many of the traditions of the college.
This has been brought home all too clearly in the recent
drinking case.

Personally we have a deep attachment for Davidson Col-
lege and for its underlying principles, but with that attach-

(Continued On Page Four)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

To the Editor:

Election time at Davidson Col-
lege for the three years I have
been here has always been some-
thing of a farce. Sincere candidates
have analyzed many of the needs
and desires of our student body
and proposed definite action. Upon
election, I am sure that they have
tried to fulfill their promises and
aspirations. However, the same is-
sues are the promises of their suc-
cessors, @.g., More representative
government by the student body
president, non-compulsory  Y-
membership and more student par-
ticipation in the Y by its presi-
dent, and greater coverage of stu-
dent opinion and activities by the
editors.

This definitely points up a prob-
lem. There must be some reason
why little is ever done with the
leader’s ideas. I think we can say
that it is not the fault of the lead-
ers; many would say that it is on
account of our stern, parental
faculty, president, and board of
trustees—who hold life and death
sentence over our diplomas and
future security.

I would say that the fault resides

Moody Smith
Charley Hasty
Jim Moore, Dick Roper
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell,
Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Waitors Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
John Handley

Sports ———
News Editor _ Austin Strand Feature Editor —_ Bill Moffett

Art Editor Ed Price Photographer _ Andy Simons
Asignments Blake Brinkerhoff
Asst. Business Manager Ed Nicholson
Advertising anger Tommy Taylor
Cireulation Manager Dick Little
Collections Manager Tim Cooper BOBBY JONES’
Matered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, WOODS @ IRONS

N. C., under the Act of March 9, 1897.

OUEMOERD OP EPALENG ABVISORY eTArP -

The Davidson “Business”

Faculty And Students, Too

within the inert, unorganized, un-, not make policy, we should aid in
interested student body. We have/ directing policy. The first pre-
requisite for directing policy is or- .
pressed coherently or cogently our| ganization. We must become in-| P°sition of having privileges which
desires, We have never forseen any | terested in wider scopes; we must
(Continued On Page Four)

never in my experience here ex-

coming changes. We have only be-
come indignant and “shadow
boxed” after we have felt that we
have been treated unfairly.
Davidson College is a business.
Its customers are students, its em-
ployees the faculty, and its direc-
tors the board of trustees and the
Presbyterian Church. If _ this
analogy has any validity, we can
further say that no one party in
the business desires to treat any
other party unjustly—providing
all parties accept their responsi-
bilities. Here the analogy breaks
down in the light of competitive
business, The faculty and directors
do assume a parental and advisory
position—but not in the destructive
sense. The students, once here, are
almost in a monopolistic market.
However the students are respon-
sible for a portion of the business.
The business of making our col-
lege more pleasant for students
and improving the environment for
education is our job. Where we can

ASK ANY GOLFER WHO OWNS
A SET OF SYNCHRO-DYNED CLUBS!

Hundreds of unsolicited testimonials from amateur golfers
tell the same story on Spalding Synchro-Dyned woods and
irons — golf's more fun now and a lower-scoring game, too!

You'll see why the first time you play these advance-design i
clubs. Your shots are easier to control, your swing is freer,
your timing more uniform — because every wood, every

iron has the identical contact feel

Have your Spalding dealer fit you now.

SPALDING

Synchro Dyned

JIMMY THOMSON’
woops

First of all, let me make clear| Changed. We have no right to vio-
one point so that we may proceed late the law because it is inimicable

unhampered by the fetters of faulty | tO us.
precepts. Fitth Amendment ‘

No one has to come to Davidson.| Several men have come to me of conann deceney we welt tations
It is a privilege which we are al-| saying that it is undemocratic to law, so that in the end there may
lowed to enjoy. So you must first|force students to testify against well be a death to account for.
of all begin with the assumption | themselves. :
of the students’ being in a| Well, going back to the discus.

sion on the difference in privilege| ; Education makes beople easy bg
are bestowed on them by the col-| and right, we should be able to vovern, but im ossible to” enslave.
lege. see that we have the privilege of oeeen * Omar Bradley

This is an important difference|not satisfying the requirement of ° °

Further, an extremely unhealthy
aroma will be cast over the whole
college-town relationship that will

The Spartan Band that held the pass,
The igh of Arthur's train

The Light Brigade that charged the guns,
Acrogs the battle plain

Can claim no greater glory than

The dedicated few

Who wear the Wings of Silver

««.0n a field of Air Force Blue,

For Fellowship...High Adventure...and a Proud Mission...

wear the wings of the U.S. Air Force! UNITED STATES
graduate as an Air Force Lieutenant carn- AIR FORCE

ing $5,000 a year. Your silver wings will

mark you as one of the chosen few who eo cP ene am ome exw eam exw exo wow gem mmm ax ex eas em en

ride the skies in Air Force jets. r AVIATION CADST, A ou
an Air Force pilot, your kingdom is j, APPTR-P-4

space—a jet is your clianger enn your Hondqverters, U.S.A.P., Washington 25, D.C.

In days gone by, young men in shining
armor ruled the age. Today, a new kind of
man rults the age— America’s Knights of
the Sky, the Air Force Pilots! They rule
from on high, in flashing silver-winged
Air Force jets... a gallant band that all

5

!
America looks up to! Like the Knights of mission is the highest. You are a {Please send me information on my
old, they are few in number, but they defender of the Gerioor faith, with f *Pportunttles as an Alr Force pilot.
represent their Nation's greatest strength. guaranteed future both in military and | a,

f you are single, between the ages of commercial aviation. t OOO COOH OSI Ccreroerecororecccoocoeeee

19 and 2634, you can join this select flying Join America’s Knightsof the Sky,new | Addrets....evcesssvvenvec
team and serve with the finest. You willbe menofanewage.BeanAviationCadetIFor , | Seveswonreeeeoeeeoeecens
given the best jet training in the world, and further information, fill out this COUPOD. — § MY-vererscseorscceree SMO. ssscceveces coun
