PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

A Modest Proposal

It is noteworthy in glancing through the pages of the
Davidson College Catalogue to find listed a Sociology Depart-
ment. This department, at the present time, is without profes-
sors, textbooks, classrooms, or students, but it is adequately
equipped with misleading pages in the catalogue which offer
the Davidson student some seven semesters work in sociology.

To the somewhat untutored student of the social sciences,
it appears that one particular course usually known as Mar-
riage and the Family would be a valuable addition to the
Davidson College curriculum. Today in America, the watch-
word of young people is “specialization” yet most of them fail
to realize that this specialization must be carried over into the
field of interpersonal relationships. If the educators hope to
produce students who have gained some degree of emotional
maturity in addition to the intellectual maturity which is so
often stressed, they cannot overlook the importance of the
classroom in preparing students for marriage.

The divorce rate, itself, speaks with a clear tone in point
ing up the weakness in our educational system, especially the
basic education of knowing how to build a family and even
more important . . . how to keep it together once the founda-
tion is laid. In North Carolina (1940), there were 15,100 mar-
riages and 3,900 divorces, thus for every four marriages
beginning one ended on the rocks. These figures represent
the situation before the war, but, on the national scale, after
World War II, (1949) there were 1,585,440 marriages and
$86,000 divorces which shows a similar trend.

Of course, lack of education for. marriage is not the sole
reason for the ever-mounting divorce rate, yet we believe its
importance in holding marriages together is underestimated
to a great extent. Our world, today, is moving fast, and prob-
lems which arise to confront young married couples are be-
coming more and more complex. Many young couples go into

OFF-MOORINGS:

Aims For Column Set For Year
As “Family” Analysis Concludes

By SIM MOORS

indifferent. Yet great men are not
born of complacency, and if we
cannot discover some new well-
spring of vitality, we run the risk
of becoming intellectually sterile.

Perhaps the most disastrous
shortcoming of the Davidson fam-
ily is its failure to find a solution
to the strange barrier existing be-
tween student and professor, con-
trary to the environment and basic
aims of the school. This is not
merely due to the aloofness of
some faculty members. It is more
likely due to the keen fear on the
part of the student that by un-
mecessary association with his
professor he may be accused of
licking the professor’s boots for

a better grade. Therefore, the
average student seems to shy
away from close relationship with
the very men with whom he should
be trying to assoclate most closely.
The administrative feature most
inconsistent with the family com-
plex and least in line with the tra-
ditional humility of our Presby-
terian forebears is the attitude of
some salaried members that they
are “big-time operators.” This
growing tendency evidences itself
in snobbishness and arrogance, in
the attitude that they are doing
the student a favor by performing
their prescribed tasks. It is seen
in the vanishing value of a stu-
dent’s word in dealing with lost
laundry, and in the cold uncompli-
ancy of gymnasium officials to-
ward equipment supposedly availa-
ble for student use. It is met even
jam jin the Union, the so-called heart
* ‘lof college family life, where they
are too often without change for
checks or phone calls, and where
one’s thirst goes unslaked if he
arrives at 11:31 p.m.
-| The Davidson family is a Chris-
tian family, and yet it has failed
to solve the problem of compul-
sory attendance at chapel and ves-
pers, and to compulsory member-

In “my” last column of the first
semester of this year, there was
a discussion of the graduation re-
quirements of Davidson with par-
ticular stress on the rules for
regulating the academic load.

The point was made, possibly
dogmatically and yet pragmatical-
ly too, that a student needed a
B average before he could take
a maximum of nineteen semester
hours of class work. This writer
also admitted that he was a suf-
ferer from the system and was
direly and personally concerned
about these rules.

As it has developed, your writer
is now a benefactor of that sys-
tem and will be (with due class
attendance, work and reasonable
luck) marching down the Chambers
aisle for the “last” time on May
31.

That pertinent fact, of pursuing
more class and lab work this}
semester, possibly affects some of
the aims of “Off-Moorings” for
the remainder of the year. The
aims of the column for the rest of
the school year are briefly these:

1. To continue the current
series of guest writers who will

ee _——
33
a: R

ET omOsT neces PATO
000 08 00:
Oss on we

marriage grossly ignorant of their responsibilities to each} be commenting on several broad Gs Rave ons
ther end to society in general. It is our belief that many] themes—Davidson today; aspects =e = sone anise somoves. temptations
of these problems could be solved before marriage in the of enon often untouched wy the t i” scmes, be coat and crucial decisions, the college
classrooms of our colleges and universities. the international situation; and te O(a soe 300) * ie Papeenrianrn fe ihr
Actually, only one professor is needed at Davidson to in- others that present themselves. mae=z 2 Is the Davidson family thus TOP.
struct the courses necessary in this field of Sociology and] 2. A more intelligent and BSS SY erly preparing its sons for the de-
Marriage and the Family. Since Prof. Douglas left the David-{ broadened approach to areas that BENEFACTORS , +40 GASS cisions they shall have to make
are, in our lives, either brushed ; (G3n0 =! themselves, or are they not render-

son College Faculty in 1951, this important place has been
left vacant.

ing weak the very character they
propose to mold?
The Davidson family is one of

off summarily, oversimplified un-
necessarily, or blandiy accepted
without reasonable thoughtfulness

NE

i
sMissattd

SAGE

c=
The Dean of the Faculty has recently announced that =
Davidson will offer a full program in Sociology next year. (Le. religion, politics, comations | crensnans  Sommnerens the most unique features ot ar
Certainly, congratulations are in order for this reform, but| and the role college students today] | 25 == SES = willing to find a solution to these
it is unfortunate that this year’s graduating class never had | have facing them. sz = Ss = incongruous short comings, it is
the opportunity of benefitting from a course in Sociology. 3. A long look at the place of sea res = bereft of its greatest usefulness.
—H.V.L. [Davidson as a college, as a unit MEdIOM
in our society, and as an in- se to SS
tellectual entity. BBS ESe=
. = 2-  —
¥ 4. Investigation and analysis is = =
Taste Buds Take A Holiday ta een hot at Poles at| | OADWMRY, SueremeR
D Pp; ' 2
Food is a much talked of, seldom acted upon subject at Davida king cueng, th Ze22
Davidson. There are those of us who eat it and try to forget dents, religion and its failings here. i 2352
it, and there are those gourmands who wander about rabidly} 5 Final t th FRIENDS =
seeking a batch of the best available. continuing sactaied id current Wage 2)
It seems in keeping this week to give a first hand report] developments on and off our scene ] 7 2 S23 =
1 and such critical comments as seem s-=—
on the best available from the standpoint of the Davidson vertinent to this writer. ACQUANTANCES _

une
nag
(us

epicure. We speak of the Sunday night buffet served in the
College Union, a repast which lends a genuine air of luxury
and finery to the cornfield college.

Stepping from the student store into what is ordinarily
the snack bar we found ourselves confronted with a room
full of busy eaters, masticating to the rhythm of recorded
Resphigi, and where the common snack bar usually stands
we found a table some twenty feet long and covered with
food to outdo Old Mother Hubbard's dreams. There were cold
cuts, salads, meats, vegetables, breads, desserts and drinks to
make the eyes bulge, and the waiters were more than eager
to make the plates bulge also.

We still were not convinced. All this was very effective
at impressing us, but we were hungry, and taste would tell
the worth of our first impressions. So it was that for the
next thirty minutes the taste buds took a holiday. Looks
fell far short of taste, and we realized why some men are

accused of living to eat instead of eating to live.
Someone at Davidson could well be accused of having

a Ph. D. in Cookery, for one twenty-five was a meagre price
indeed to give for that short period at worship of epicurean
pleasures.

History relates that the food at the National Hotel in
Washington in 1857 created a country-wide crisis by poison-
ing the elite of the nation. It seems entirely possible that the
food at Mr. Murphy’s Gastroteria could easily cause a local
crisis by initiating a charge on Rush Wilson for better belts
for bigger bellies —H.C.B.

Sully

More areas of interest might be
squeezed in, but there are certain
limitations imposed in writing for
only thirteen weeks between 800
and 1,000 words at a time. You can-
not say everything; even Shake-
speare didn’t in a lifetime in mil-| -*”
lions of words.

You will notice that the plan is
Davidson-centered, as it well
ought to be, for we are most in-
terested in ourselves—egotistical-
ly, for purposes of self-improve-
ment, or for a number of other
reasons.

5

~t} TT

Furman’s Purple Hurricane has
been named as the visiting team
for the Davidson homecoming next
fall. The Hurricane will make its
annual appearance on the Cat slate
on October 23 on the Richardson
Field turf.

In last week’s column, Bill Mof-
fett had a studied introduction, a
well-ordered body and no con-
clusion. This time Bill is rectify-
ing the oversight.

Actually the difficulty arose
when, in the editorial rush of
putting the paper together at the
printing office, the last part of
Moffett’s analysis was left out en-
toto. With due editorial apologies,
we thus continue where we left
off.

Derrick Barton, former David-
son tennis coach, is now perform-
ing as the tennis pro at the Uni-
versity Club in Memphis, Tenn.
Barton left Davidson after the 1962
season.

Want to travel
and study
abroad?

aN

By BILL MOFFETT

Last week we were discussing
the Davidson family. We en-
deavored not only to point out the
reasons for its existence, but to
show that the family complex can
be uniquely beneficial. We pointed
out that it played down divisions,
fostered a sense of harmony, and

Un

versity-sponsored tour via TWA,
Itineraries include countries in
Europe, the Middle East, Asia and
Africa. Special study tours available,
Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s
economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: Jobn Hf.
Firbay, Ph. D., Director, Air World

Jim Moore, Dick Roper
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell,
Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
ee JOhN Handley
Austin Strand Feature Editor — T. A. Williams
Ed Price Photographer __. Andy Simons
ts ____.. rinkerhoff

which the college stands. Ultimate-
ly, our true strength is measured
by the extent to which we are suc-
cessful in solving our own prob-
lems. Failing in this, we cannot
hope for better than a second-rate
position in the eyes of future gen-

Sports Editor .

Blake B erations. Toure, Dept. CN, 380 Madison Ave.,
Asst. Business Manager Ed Nicholson New York 17, N. Y. Be sure to men-
Advertising Manager Tommy Taylor For example, there is a lack of] tion countries you wish to visit.
Cireulation Manager Dick Little intellectual stimulation, of a great
Collections Manager Tim Cooper) Os in of te nich accom:
puner the strong elon, 7 |
Batered as second class at the Post Office at Davidson, | or class conflict conspicuously ab- ames wos anus

matter
N, C,, under the Act of March 3, 1897, sent on our campus. We tend to

be smug, self-satisfied, passively

THE still of the night—high above a sleeping American
city—an unidentified aircraft is spotted. In a matter of
seconds a lightning-like jet interceptor takes to the air.
Unerringly, with an Aircraft Observer showing the way, the
Air Force F-94 Night Fighter speeds to intercept the
stranger. The Aircraft Observer is the man behind the pilot
—the officer who keeps America’s planes flying on course

ing everything there is to know about his plane . . . keeping
it fit for the skies and ready for action..

He's a Navigation Officer . . . plotting his plane’s course
.. « With an entire crew depending on him for a safe flight.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1954

THIS IS DAVIDSON
LET’S FACE IT!

By MALCOLM WILLIAMSON

trol over our programs. We g0 to

chapel to be counted present, not

to learn from the variety of

vidson College and the His speakers presented. We must Hert

tory 61 Textbook. certain courses, ome we may take
Ww.

This week the YMCA held a Fo-| 10) MET many we may study
rum discussion that served at least at any one time. This policy kills
one purpose. Disregarding the par. incentive to take courses merely
ticular merits or lack of them iN} / ihe sake of knowledge and
this forum, there was as alWaYS} _.K05 us consider only if a course
a rather noticeable lack of interest will be of any use toward gradua-
on the part of us Davidsonians. tion. The second reason is the
This same apathy is easily Se) on6 of extreme formality that is
from a glance at the sad state of exhibited toward the students by
honorary fraternities which over-| 1. qministration as a whole—
populate the campus. The Forum) joocant, yes—but too aloof to
dramatized the fact that few of us stimulate the real exchange of
at Davidson are really interested ideas.
in anything beyond getting the . son is the principles
best grade possible with the least wineh bet videon proudly baa pious.
amount of real learning and en- ly proclaims—principles which
joying our social life which is have so little to do with the world
usually as far removed from the as it is that they taint the whole
college as possible. college experience with an aura

Why does this situation exist? | of unreality. Davidson is the cita-
Not even the bitterest columnist/ ao} of black and white surrounded
who ever wrote for this page by the world of grey. We are
would claim that the Davidson taught, at least by inference, that
faculty is divorced from either] ine following of the Sunday School
learning or scholarship. On the religion will more certainly bring
contrary, I believe that this faculty] juccess in life than will the. cal-
would surpass those of most uni- culating and precise applications
versities both in understanding of of the tools of knowledge. But this
subject and in teaching ability. is a world of doers, not wishers.
Statistical psychology tells us that/s, order to achieve our goals,
the Davidson student body (that’s praiseworthy or deplorable, we
us) has by several points a higher! just be taught how to beat the
LQ. than the ‘mean U. S. student! .oig.plooded world of today. Many
body. We are not dull, and we are| o¢ ys suspect. that not everyone
not being tutored by dim-wits.| oy the outside is a member of the
Why is the voluntary pursuit of YMCA, and we wonder if our
real knowledge and what passes studies here are really worthwhile.
for culture such a stranger to Fourth, we are too homogeneous
Davidson—a relic lost in the cor-}4, develop any competitive spirit
ridors of Chambers? toward learning. We come from a

There is no one cause for this| class in society that is no longer
regrettable problem. But there arejon the make. There is no valid
several things that may strengthen] reason for most of us to strain
the theory that Davidson is to be ourselves academically. We are
gulped down and followed by aj already made, and Davidson grades
chaser rather than to be sipped| will not change the situation. To
and savored. The first reason may|run the family business does not
be the administration’s rigid con- require any great understanding

of the problems of life. Or we can
pick up everything we really need
in seminary or med school. In
some institutions the average stu.
dent is not fortunate enough to at.
tend any more specialized insti.
tution of learning. Then there may
be some reason for him to get all
he can in his undergraduate days.

Fifth, (this may sound trivial to
many, but I believe that it is a
genuine cause for the general
apathy toward real knowledge at
Davidson) the traditional academic
spirit is missing from this Presby.
terian institution. Davidson has no
riots over political issues. The stu-
dent body takes no concerted
action against unpopular adminis.
tration measures. We have no
established intelligentsia to discuss
the latest literary trends with pro-
fessors over an evening stein of
beer. Qualities such as these de-
velop a spirit of unity and pur-
pose within a college family. Un-
fortunately, Davidson must live in
a rather sterile atmosphere devoid
of fervor which can beget only
lethergy. We will continue to do
what we must but no more.

You may wonder what the pur-
pose of this is. I believe that
Davidson can be a worthwhile ex-
perience, and it seems a shame for
us to waste much of the opportu-
nity that might be found -here.
But we do. Admittedly, our North
Mecklenburg College may never
become a world-renowned instita
tion—never a Princeton, Harvard,
Oxford, Edinburgh, or Sorbonne,
and we might not want it so. But
a more liberal policy in regard
to the first three points and a
concentrated effort to make the
last two qualities of Davidson more
cosmopolitan might go a long way
toward making Davidson more
than classes during the week and
a place away from which to be on
weekends, Davidson can move to-
ward a place of real learning for
a real life.

“America has never hed the
equal of her little hill-top col-
teges."—The Catalogue of De

He's a Bombardment Officer . . . in full control of the plane
over the area... the Air Force Officer who “lowers
the boom” on the enemy.

What the Aircraft Observer gets

He earns over $5,000 a year. His silver Aircraft Observer
wings give him prestige and distinction, and he wears the

premnoted friendship and co-opera-| —fahe @ university-spensored and on target. Without him the Air Force couldn't doitsjob. bars of an Air Force Lieutenant. They mark him as the
- tour vie TWA this summer es, ears, and brains of America’s Number O. .
THE DAVIDSONIAN But at the point where the end —t Neen college credit what is the Aircraft Observer? — Y rains of s er ne flying team
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE column was, sferminated, | we were you travel He's a Radar Offi toying an all see tha What it takes to be on Aircraft Observer
le an oa a eee an all seein; t :

COLLEGE VEAR rather typical shortcomings, which Vi ose fom 2 to f your ch olce penetrates where human sight fails. § Boe The Aircraft Observer must be sound of limb, keen of mind,

ANA _jieoty Smith we believe to be grossly incon-| foreign university. You can do both ; and above all, must have the determination to be the best.
SINESS AGER ley Hasty [| sistent ose principles for] on one trip when you arrangoa uni- He's an Aircraft Performance Engineer Officer . . . know- To qualify as an Aircraft Ob: you must be single,

between 19 and 26% years old, and a high school graduate.
However, it will be better for you and the Air Force if you
stay in college and graduate before you apply. Then you,
too, can be one of the best... as an Aircraft Observer.

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS:

Contact your neeres? Aviction Cadet Selection Team,
Als Force ROTC Unit or Alr Force Recruiting Officer.
Or write te: Aviation Cade?, Headquarters,

U, $. Als Force, Washington 25, D. CG.
