PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1954

SENIOR SKETCH NO. 2:

A Virtuoso's Lament -

By BILL MOFFETT

A totalitarian state is one where
that is

Strand Makes Plans ror==—
Town’s Cubs and Scouts DAVIDSON

. . Roy Palmer

'

THEATRE

The story of Roy Sebastian Pal-
mer has been aptly called “A Vir-
tuoso’s Lament.” To appreciate
fully the appropriateness of this
odd appelation, we must return
gome twelve years to a dramatic
scene in which we find little Roy
just settling down in a secluded
corner with his comic books after
a hard day in the third grade. As
he turns a page his eye is in-|,
escapably drawn to an advertise-
ment picturing a lone youth read-
ing comic books in a secluded cor-
ner. “Pal,” reads the heavy print,|'
“are you unpopular? Never date? | .
Never get invited to parties?” The
truth was harsh, for Palmer was
not particularly popular. As a mat-
ter of fact, most people hated his
guts. The relevance of the ad
prompted a remorseful sigh, and

—_— . |. Soe ay
Palmer fingers the treble to his latest, “Bardust.”

By DICK MOREHEAD

Austin Strand is the Lillt-
pution Junior capably filling
the Gargantusn post es chalr-
men of the Scouting Commit-
tee for the ¥ this year. He is
a ton ot Greensboro, North
Caroline, where he was very
active in scouting work, ed-
vancing to the coveted position
of Gagle Scout and acquiring
the Bronze Palm. Always
stirring In Y work, he has
headed up the Negro scout
troop In Cornelius for the past
two years.

Austin is a business major
with hopes for becoming an
accountant. He plans to donate
two years to advanced ROTC

has necessitated a large attive|’
committee with several sub-chair-
men as well as the cooperation and
efforts of various faculty and com-
munity leaders.
The Scouting Post of the Y might
be divided into two groups—
Scouting and Cubbing, the larger
of which is the Cubbing group. =
Cubbing is under the able leader-
ship of Professor B. D. Thompson
of the Lions Club. Assisting him oo”
as a more or less roving assistant
is Bill Kuykendall of the student é
body, whose function as key co- v
ordinator is to realize and provide , aad
those things which cubs need and x
want from cubbing. ‘
mY
, hk

The committee began the year

semester is being devoted to rais-
ing money for the trip which
should prove to be very education-
al. Money is raised by paper drives,
selling drinks, and raking lawns.

The other troop is a colored one
set up in November under the
leadership of Mr. Kibler who is
very interested in boys and scout-
ing work. He is assisted by Jack
Huffaker and Ronnie Whitson.
This troop is still in its organiza-
tion, and so far little advance--
ment has been accomplished. Ac-
cording to the chairman, “The
main aim here should be leader-
ship in teaching these boys how
to live right rather than straight
advancement — we hope to use
these aims hand in hand.”

——=——

All Pictures Will Be Shown
On Our New

P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C
WIDE SCREEN

 EEEequ]oe Eee
THURS.FRI., FEB. 11-12

“SECOND
CHANCE”

(Teehnicoior)
LINDA DARNGLL

SATURDAY, FRB. 13

“THE BIG HEAT”

GLENN FORD

MON.-TUGS., FEB. 15-1¢

“ALL THE BROTHERS

with three dens and has since
added one on the western side of E
town. The three former dens are nen

divided into age groups of eight, AUSTIN STRAND

nine, and ten with den mothers| which help the boys advance. All
from the community ably assisted] stress has been toward advance-

then with misty eyes the little fel- after day, until finally he was gain from his long years of train-
low read on: “This is your golden ready for his musical debut. ing by joining a band. However,
opportunity. Write today for the No party or dance could possi-} there are drawbacks to night club
first in an amazingly easy series] bly be successful without Palmer| work, and the demoralizing effects
of piano lessons guaranteed to at the piano. And when he tried/ of warding off duet-minded cus-
start you on the road to popularity, his hand at composition, such hits| tomers and working into the early

WERE VALIANT”

ROBERT TAYLOR
STEWART GRANGER

and three to graduate school,
giving them in a “first come,
first serve” order.

He hopes to continue work
in scouting after graduation,

Drink

WEDNESDAY, PRB. 17

parties, and pesos within weeks, | as “Smog Gets In Your Eyes” and| morning hours are beginning to| but not in e@ professional co- by Cliff Deal, J. Barksdale, Joe|ment with eyes toward more r
or your money back,” “Cringing in the Rain” put him in| take their toll. pacity. Austin, @ member of Hodges and Bob Douglas of the Y.| projects this spring. M “SA ADIA’
Why not? .And as he reached | constant demand. Everywhere peo-| Concerning this latest venture] the Phi Delta Thete social fre- The latter den, composed of all] There are two scouting troops

for pen and paper thus was|ple clamored to hear him play,|his mother remarked, “Roy is al ternly, wes vice president of [three age groups, was organized | the first of which is a white troop COR PERRER.

in December with Buddy Dye and/ which meets at the Davidson Col-
Bob Shaw as assistants. The aim|lege Church under the leadership
behind this den was to bring in| of Professor Bevan and assistants
more boys — who really needed/Gwynn Griffin, Jack Pietenpol,
cubbing, and it is hoped that this} Tony Dick and chairman Strand.
aim can be continued and/ There are twenty-seven boys in this
broadened in future years. troop. The project planned for

These dens meet once a week,|the year is one thought up by
having a pack meeting about once | Professor Bevan — that of taking
every six weeks, They have had/| the boys on a bus trip up through
various projects so far, such as| Washington, D.C., at the end of
Christmas decorations and models, the school year. Most of this

Liggett & Myers

Tobacco Co. says...

For four years we have maintained in the
smoker's interest an intensified larger scale
diversified research program. A half-million
dollar 30-ton machine, the world’s most
powerful source_of high voltage electrons,
designed solely for our use has tested tens of
thousands of cigarettes. This program has
already given to us direct and significant in-
formation of benefit to the smoking public.

Our consultants include Arthur D. Little,
Inc. of Cambridge, Massachusetts, “one of the
largest and most reputable industrial research
organizations in the country” (From Business
Week Magazine) and eminent scientists from
leading universities. ;

Today the public can confidently choose
from a variety of brands—by far the best
cigarettes ever made by the tobacco industry.

Many scientists within our
laboratories are analyzing 3
cigarette tobaccos every doy

his sophomore cless and Is this
year News Qditer for the De
vidsonian and on the Y Cabi-
net.
THE SCOUTING COMMITTEE
The field of scouting here covers
a wide area of subjects, interests,
attitudes, and age levels while
keeping within the range of the
universal scouting program. This
paeeeheetetr RATE ae eT

Parking, Publicity...
(Continued From Page One)
mittee would like to meet with the
publicity director sometime in the

future if possible.

The rest of the meeting was con-
cerned with generalized discus-
sions on other college problems,
which the committee hopes to deal
with in the future.

Students are reminded that since
the committee is concerned with
student opinion, the committee
will appreciate any suggestions by
students concerning the many
phases of college life. Ideas should
be given to either Dr. Ostwalt or
Jim Daughdrill, secretary.

Those present at the meeting,
held in the faculty lounge of the
College Union, were Dr. Ostwalt,
Mr. Plott, Charlie Johnson, Clark

launched the career which was to|and even today, wherever he goes| good boy.” Said the Dean, “Sleep
make the name Roy Palmer to the| he is quickly steered to the nearest through that .first period again,
piano what Glock N. Spiel is to piano with requests falling thick] Mr. Palmer, and you've had it.”
the bell lyre. With determination and fast. An SAE., “Shay, buddy, play
he mastered the first lesson, and] But inevitably he learned the|“Mela’choly Baby’.” Ophelia Zilch,
the second, and so on until he had | price he was to pay for fame. What | “How about ‘Some Erotic Even-
finished the initial course and was| red-blooded American girl wants|ning’?” His date, “I'm going home
advancing rapidly through more] to date a guy who's tied to a piano! with Joe.” —

difficult training. His every effort | bench everywhere he goes? And} At this very moment Palmer is
was concentrated on his music. He] altho many an enchanted evening| probably being led to an upright
shunned his ar iar for ‘Rach-|he’s seen intriguing strangers] by some admirer when he would
maninoft, Tchaikowsky, and Piano} across a crowded room, t's not too

Red, hurrying after school to the] easy to get to know them if one us as ek . - ee han
keyboard, giving up all night lifejhas to lug a baby grand around, | 2%¢ 8 comic book. ut as he him-
for his new love. And above all,/In desperation and lonely as ever, self puts it, some people just can’t
he practiced hour after hour, day|he tried to realize some financial | win for losing.

THURS.-FRI., FEB. 18-19

“MARRY ME AGAIN”

MARIE WILSON
ROBT. CUMMINGS ~

SATURDAY, JAN, 20

“WAR PAINT”

ROBERT STACK
JOAN TAYLOR

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery, Inc.

AOO

Guidance Program . . . |Dr. Watts Returns . . .
(Continued From Page One) (Continued From Page One)
vocational guidance concerning} ing the summer were the Doles,
more than 250 job fields. Thompsons, and Abernethys from

The program is not intended to| Davidson. During the summer the
decide for the individual his pat-| family took longer trips to Maine,
ticular problem, whether it be of |New Hampshire and Ohio.
an academic or a vocational nature.| Dr. Watts moved his headquar-
The program is concerned rather/ters to New York City where he
with providing the student with as/| attended a meeting of the secre-
much reliable information about| aries of all the national language
himself as possible so that he| associations at the headquarters of
might be better equipped to make|the Modern Language Association
and buy their tickets from a own decision. on November 13th and 14th. From
cial re representative. Spe-) “Any student who would like to|then until Christmas he worked in

Bandleader Marterie, who will take these tests should go by the|the New York Public libraries and

* Vocational Guidance office, Room|the Columbia University Library.
put in his first appearance atlo31 Chambers, and see either Pro-| From December 28th to the 3ist Reed, Jim Daughdrill, and Moody
Davidson next weekend, is definite- apes Smith.
fessor ,Ostwalt or the secretary./he attended ‘meetings of the Mod-
ly a man who aims to please. who is there in the afternoons. An|ern Language Association and the

“The public wants good, sweet,| interview will then be arranged| American Association of Teachers Linker’s Hunch
and tastefully arranged music] with Professor Ostwalt, at which|of French in Chicago, There he (Continued F Pe 7
with a danceable beat—that’s what time the tests will be arranged for/was elected for the fifth consecu-| with information th tri on )
my band is prepared to give them, the student according to his par- tive three-year term as secretary- armed and  onaidered dan was
says Marterie. ticular needs. treasurer of the American Asso-| On Saturday afternoon, o atrol

Trumpet playing . Marterie,| The tests, by the way, are given| ciation of Teachers of French. men J. R. Davis and J. 1. Mize ar.
dubbed “The Man Born for the|every day, Monday through Fri-] During January Dr. Watts re-| rested Fields at his home for the
Horn,” is known to popular music day, from 2-4:30 p.m. After the turned to Davidson, using this as Davidson robbery Fields ot into
fans through his recordings for| tests have all been taken, the stu-}4 base from which to visit the|the police car with Porctman
Mercury and his own radio shows/dent is shown his results in an-| University of North Carolina and] pize, while Patrolman Davis fol-
over ABC. network. A veteran of] other interview; and, if necessary.) Duke University libraries. During lowed in Field’s car. Neither of-

many years of radio work, both in another set is arranged. this period he completed a re-|ficer was equipped with a pair of
the popular and concert field, search paper to be read at the|handcuffs. Fields then drew the
Marterie’s working knowledge of|of the newer bands today, University of Kentucky Foreign offiver’s o df

his material is veritably encyclo-| The instrumentation of the Mar-| Language Conference in April him ith o1 gun and fajally shot
pedic. With several hundred ar-|terie band is made up of four! pr Watts is now at his re guler Davis wh one bullet. Patrolman
rangements in that band’s “book” | trombones, five trumpets, five! teaching position, his place having alongaide 0 was unarmed Pehl
or library, the Marterie band is|reeds, three rhythm, and both @lneen filled in his absence by/times and left for dead. Fields

certainly one of the best equipped boy and a girl singer. Kenneth Wilson-Jones, who has re-| then drove on in bis own car. °

turned to the University of North| This was followed by one of the

Cc ATTALES... Carolina for further study. largest manhunts in Georgia his-

(Continued From Page Three)

tory. Fields was chased for sev-
close race. To round out the backfield Don Campbell and Greek Week ... eral hours by over 25 cars of va-
Greg Poole are pushing Jimmy Thacker for the left half spot| (Continued From Pege One)

raed enforcement bodies un-
and Don McCree and Dave Comer are keeping Harley Smith} With the time of 1:62 minutes,! Not to be stopped, Fields had to
on his toes. ho ticle sete tee bin in the) be chased for six miles on foot
In the forward wall which will pick up considerable weight}; y- as cAMC} through rough Georgia territory.

n second and Sigma Chi took] officers reported that Fields would
with the addition of the freshman team the only position which | third place. have been shot dead on th we t
appears to be sowed up is big Randy Johnston’s hold on the} The Betas once again capturedli¢ he had not thrown his. gens

. b , | first place in the shuttle dash re-
center slot. At the ends its more frosh with the two big boys tay with their time being 1.35 min. down ate tarned his back to ar-

Bill Gramley and Tom Newton, along with Jimmy Martin, 4] utes. i
newcomer, working for that position. second and. thisds remectieely. cone we ne tragic oc-
At the guards Tommy Owen and Dickie Davis, both vet-| In the over all” competition for| issued the following sanningham
eran regulars are being pushed by Llyle Llewellyn, Charlie the field day, the Betas ran off] The Davidsonian.
Cousar and Adair Hatcher. The tackle positions are perhaps| "it fisst place with a total of At) = “Davidson College has been in
points. Sigma Chi was second with

the most populated with Ken Lawing, Tom Lee, Tom Firor,| 37 points, and the Pikes were third the public eye in an unprecedented
and Dallas Brewer being the most promising of the seven) with 35 points. oratitving Pon are aye It is
men working for the two positions. The KAs filled the fourth place|Scnts’ and the college are com
= spot, and the Kappa Sigs were|cerned there has been no occa-
fifth. The Phi Gams held six| sion for unfavorable publicity. In-
place, while the SAEs took seventh. | deed, we are exceedingly fortunate
The Phi Deits, ATOs, and Pi Kappsi that the students managed to avoid
all tied for eighth place. combat with the robber.

Sigma Phi Epsilon wor first “T have had occasion to say to the
place and the trophy last night in] soliege community the gratitude

the Greek Week Foolies to Linker
culminate the Greek Week activ- Mie te atine. aint in an

Midwinters ...

(Continued From Page One)
committee, plans to get started on
brightening up the Johnston gym
dance floor early next week. The
IFC has been working for some
time on the Midwinters project,
and believes it has an attractive
motif for the occasion.

Independents, alumni, and others
who wish to buy tickets to next
weekend's dances must follow the
same policy set for Homecoming,

OR more than thirty years we have used

research day in and day out learning about -
tobaccos and cigarettes in the public’s interest.

Continuously we and our consultants have
analyzed, experimented with and smoked all
kinds of tobaccos... especially Southern Bright,
Burley, Maryland and Turkish cigarette to-
baccos.

Our own cigarettes and competitive brands
have been submitted to the most exacting
scientific scrutiny including thousands of anal-
yses of millions of pounds of tobaccos.

From all these thousands of analyses, and
other findings reported in the leading technical
journals, our Research Department has found
no reason to believe that the isolation and
elimination of any element native to cigarette

tobaccos today would improve smoking.

me eet”

Fa aoe ‘ae peaen fa

i

Phoenix Group Insurance & Brands

ities sponsored by the LF.C.la way as to furnish th li

Second and third places were] with their necessary clue which Tested and Approved by
Johnston Buildi awarde ppa Phi and Sig-lied to the identifying and the ar
ionnston Durlcing ma Chi, respectively. The Alphal resting of the criminal. i i

Tau Omega performance, rated top| 4, will be a matter of con- 30 Years of Scientific

by the judges, was disqualified be-) ¢inuin,
g@ interest to me to disco
cause of outside help. the elements which produced a

aaa

A puncture-sealing tubeless auto-| man of such ambitions and low
mobile tire has been developed by| character. It will also be of in-'
a Mid-West rubber company after | terest to discover whether his wife

10 years of research. The com-|had knowled
pany says the tires give protecti ge of his crimes or
blowouts 8 give, ers mark. whether it was broken upon her

mum safeguards against skidding, | a8 ® tragic surprise.”

Charlotte, N. C.

Tobacco Research

Coppighe 1994, Lansure & Mums Tenscco Co.
