PAGE FOUR

RELEASED BY DR. ABERNETHY

Details On Graduate Help

Graduate Record Examination | Graduate Studies, Yale University,
Professor George L. Abernethy | New Haven, Conn.
has announced that the Graduate Wesleyan Scholerships
Record Examination will be given} Wesleyan University is offering
to interested seniors at Davidson|a two-year program of study and
on Thursday, January 27, 1955. training leading to the degree of
Seniors who are applying for} Master of Arts in Teaching. It is
graduate fellowships or scholar-| designed to provide professional
ships or who are seeking admission training in a liberal arts environ-
at Graduate Schools which require | ment for men planning to teach in
early application should take the| public secondary schools.
Examination at this time. Dr. Aber-] Fellowships ranging up to $1500
nethy urged seniors who are pian-| for single men and $2400 for mar-
ning to ‘take the Examination tol ried men with dependents are
write at once to the Educational] available. The awards are renew-
Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street,| able for the second year. The pro-
Princeton, New Jersey, for appli-] gram admits fifteen well-qualified
cation. college graduates each year. Pros-
Completed application blanks|2ective candidates must furnish
must reach the Educational Test-| satisfactory evidence of ability to
ing Service before January 13 if] carry on work of high quality, as
the student is to be admitted to] vell as evidence of personal qual-
the Examination on January 27.| fications for public school teach-
Further information may be had! ing.
from Professor Abernethy. For further information students
Fletcher School Scholarships should consult Professor Jay Ost-
The Fletcher School of Law and| Walt. or write to Ernest Stabler,
Diplomacy, a graduate school of Chairman, Master of Arts in Teach-
international affairs administered |i®& Program, Wesleyan Universi-

by Tufts College in cooperation] ‘Y Middletown, Conn.

with Harvard University, offers a Brandeis Scholarships
comprehensive program of advanc-| Brandeis University offers a pro-
ed study leading to the M. A. and] gram of graduate study in the His-
Ph.D. The fields of study include] tory of Ideas leading to the M. A.
International Law, Organization,| degree in history. The program is
Diplomacy, World Politics, Inter-] designed to offer broad compre.
national Economics, Trade and Fi-] hensive training in the following

nance. .

The program is designed to pro-
vide graduate training for careers
in the State Department and Dip-
lomatic Service of the United
States, in the United Nations and
other international agencies, in in-
ternational business, and in teach-
ing. Candidates for admission
should have a broad undergrad-
uate preparation in the Liberal
Arts with substantial training in
History, Government and Econo-
mics; a reading knowledge of one
modern foreign language; a rec-
ord of high personal and academ-
ic achievement.

A number of grants varying
from tuition scholarships to fellow-
ships bearing stipends of $1800 are
available. Applications must be

tields: History of Philosophy, His-
tory of Political Theory, History
of Religion, Hi8tory of Science
and History of Social Thought.

Financial assistance is available.
Graduate Fellowships vary from
tuition to stipends of $2100, while
teaching assistantships are avail-
able up to $2100 including tuition
and other fees. An undergraduate
major in History, Philosophy, Pol-
ities or Sociology is desirable, but
not a requirement for admission.

Additional information may be
had by writing to Chairman, Grad-
uate School of Arts and Sciences,
Brandeis University, Waltham 54,
Mass.

Nichols Foundation

The J. C. Nichols Foundation of

the Urban Land Institute will of-

completed by February. 15, 1955.) fer a grant-in-aid in the amount
Requests for information and ap-| of $2,000 to be awarded during the
plication blanks should be address-| Spring of 1955, for research to be
ed to the Office of the Dean, the| carried on during the academic
Fletcher School of Law and Diplo-] year 1955-56 at Georgia Institute
macy, Medford 55, Massachusetts. | of Technology.
Hartford Scholarships The competition is open to any
The Hartford Theological Sem-]™an or woman who has been ad-
inary has announced two entrance mitted to the Graduate Division of
scholarships of $1000 each to stu- Georgia Institute of Technology
dents preparing for the Christian | for study during the academic year
ministry. These scholarships cover | 1955-56 in Architecture, City Plan-
tuition, room, board and inciden-| "ing, Civil Engineering, of Indus-
tal expenses. March 1, 1955 is the| trial Management. Further infor-
closing date for applications. Fur-|™ation may be secured by writing
ther information may be had by Professor Howard K. Menhinick,
writing to the Dean, Hartford The- 225 North Avenue, N. W., Atlanta,
ological Seminary, Hartford Sem- | Georgia.

inary Foundation, Hartford, Conn.
Columbia University

Emory Fellowships
Emory University in a recent an-

Columbia University is offering nouncement offers thirty fellow-
graduate training for careers as,Ships in various university depart-
specialists on Russia and East Cen-| ments for programs leading to the
tral Europe in government ser- Master’s degree. These awards car-
vice, academic teaching and re.|'y stipends ranging from $1,000 to
search, journalism, etc. $1, ;

A two year program leading to Applications must be received
the M. A. degree involves study of | before February 15, 1955. Appll-
the history, economics, political | cation forms, bulletins and addi-
institutions, literature and inter-| tional information may be had by
national relations of Poland, writing the Dean of the Graduate
Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugosla-| School, Emory University, Emory
via, Rumania, Bulgaria, Albania or | University, Ga. -

Russia. Awards up to the amount University Of Oslo

of $2,000 per year are available for| Announcement is made _ this
students of special ability and|week by the University of Oslo
promise. Summer School of the ninth ses-

Completed applications must be]sion to be held July 8August 13,
received prior to February 21, ———--—\———_
1955. Further information may be
had by writing to the Program on D had k
East Central Europe, Columbia rin
University, 429 West 117th Street,

New York 27, N. Y. ‘M
Yale University

The Yale University Graduate
School announces the Overbrook
Fellowships in International Rela-
tions. These fellowships carry stip-
ends ranging up to $2,000 and are
offered on a competitive basis to
students preparing for an M. A. or
Ph.D degree in International Re-
lations.

Completed applications are due
before February 15, 1955. Interest-
ed students should write to the Di-
rector of Graduate Studies in In-
ternational Relations, 214 Hall of

THE CONNOISSEUR

A Place of fine Foods for any taste

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery, Inc.

in Eating — Specializing in Steck,
Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.

Mooresville, N. C. Phone 3-286!

1955, in Oslo, Norway.

Courses will be offered in the
fields of humanities and social stu-
dies, education system of Norway,
graduate seminars in Norwegian
Education, Literature, and Social
and Political problems. The sum-
mer school will also feature two
new courses in Physical Education
in Scandinavia (with special em-
phasis on Norway).

All classes will be conducted in
English and an American member
is on the administrative staff. The
University provides outstanding
lecturers and maintains highest ed-
ucational standards.

Housing is provided in the Blin-
dern Students Hall for single stu-
dents. Married couples are accom-
modated in private homes.

Six semester-hour credits may
be earned in the six weeks course
and the session is approved by the
U. S. Veterans Administration for
veterans under P. L. 346 and P. L.
550. Applicants should have com-
pleted their freshman year not lat-
er than June, 1955.

A limited number of  scholar-
ships are available for the sum-
mer school.

Students will leave New York
on the SS STAVANGERFJORD
June 22, 1955. Reservations for the
return trip are available August 20,
September 3 and 14, and October
1955. An orientation program
is. conducted on the trip eastbound.

For catalogue of courses, prelim-
inary application material, or any
further information, write: Oslo
Summer School Admissions Office;
Care St. Olaf College; Northfield,
Minnesota.

Study tn Paris

Applications are now being re-
ceived from prospective students
for the Yale-Reid Hall Summer
Session In Paris, Associate Profes-
sor Theodore Anderson of Yale
University announced today.

The foreign study program is un-
der the joint direction of Mr. An-
derson, Associate Professor of
french and Associate Director of
Yale’s Master of Arts in Teaching
Program, and Miss Dorothy  F.
Leet, President of Reid Hall in
Paris.

The six-week session begins on
July 4 and will end August 13. It
is open to qualified men and wom-
en college students who have had
two years of college French or the
equivalent.

Students accepted will leave
New York in mid-June and be con-
ducted on a tour of Normandy,
Mont St. Michel, and the Loire
Valley before beginning studies in
Paris. Throughout the session they
will live at Reid Hall, a beautiful
mansion in the heart of Paris.
There will be other tours organiz-
ed during the session, and at the
end of .the course there will be
three weeks of independent travel

-

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Duke Foundation Letter|Cat Squads...

Eligibility. ..

(Continued From Page Three)
freshmen, is considered a mem-
ber of a current squad if he dress-
es for any regularly scheduled con-
test, practices with the team or
participates in any exhibition con-
test between any team. He will not
be eligible for intramural sports as
long as he is considered out for the
intercollegiate sport.

One suggestion has been made
that in sections 1 and 2, the word-
ing of the rule be changed to read
“any student who has met the re-
quirements for a letter (or numer-
al).” Even thought he has quit and
did not receive a letter or numer-
al, he remains ineligible.

Another is that in section 5, the
individual be allowed to play in
activities other than the one in
which he quit, since his ability lies
in that field.

A question about section 7: If a
man is not eligible for intramur-
als as long as he is out for an in-
tercollegiate sport, how did can-
didates for the Varsity swimming
team legally swim in the Inter-
fraternity Swimming Meet? Cer-
tainly they were currently practic-
ing with the team. An answer will
be appreciated.

Basketball .. .

(Continued From Page Three)
without the services of star for-
ward Ish Bennett who is injured
and was unable to play against the
Charleston club. Bennett may be
ready in time for tonight's scrap
against. The Citadel. The Bulldogs
are in the middle of a major over-
haul as General Mark Clark has
fired the football and basketball
coaching staffs. The Citadel cagers
are being handled by a member of
the faculty until a new mentor is
selected.

Last Monday night, the Wildcats
put on a late scoring spree to down
the Guilford Quakers in an excit-
ing contest, 78-69. The battle was
a close one for the first 30 min-
utes of the contest, but then the
Davidson cagers got the lead and,
by playing slowly, forced the
Quakers to commit fouls or leave
players open. Then the lead was
stretched into the final margin.

The first halt was marred by
sloppy passing and frequent viola-
tions. It appeared for a while that
it might be a repeat performance
of last year’s upset victory of the
Quakers. .

before returning to this country.

This co-ed group was establish-
ed five years ago and offers cours-
es in French, Contemporary
French Literature, French Art,
and French Politics, taught at the
Sorbonne and the Louvre. College
credits are granted for work com-
pleted.

For further information and ap-
plication blanks students have
been asked to apply before March
1, 1955 to Professor Anderson, 133
Hall of Graduate Studies, Yale Un-
iversity.

make it count..

i}
have 4 Coke

GOTNED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

“Cabe™ te © vegisiored wede-mork.

©1952. me coca-coia company

Editor’s Note: The following
is a letter sent from Davidson
this week to the Trustees of the
Duke Endowment, of which Da-
vidson College receives 5%.

December 6, 1954
Trustees of Duke Endowment
40 West 49th St.
New York, N. Y.

Ded Friends:

The Executive Committee of the
Trustees of Davidson College, the
Faculty and the Student Body have
noted the forthcoming Anniversary
of the remarkable Indenture of the
late Mr. J. B. Duke on December
11, 1954. These bodies recalled in
separate sessions the significance
of that provision to Davidson Col-
lege and desire to record their pro-
found gratitude, not only for Mr.
Duke’s beneficence but also for the
wisdom and fidelity of you who
have acted as Trustees across these
thirty years.

Our institution was lifted to a
new level of service and accom-
plishment by the Duke Endowment
provision. It has been further
strengthened by the support of
others whose confidence and in-
terest were inspired by the know}-
edge of Mr. Duke’s generosity.

With sincere appreciation to
each of you, we are

Very truly yours,
J. McDowell Richards
President of the Trustees

John R. Cunningham
President of Davidson
College

Phi Delts ...

(Continued From Page Three)
Delt), McGee (Beta).

1447—Crouch (SAE), Wright
(Beta), Bernhart (Kappa Sig), Ham-
bright (Phi Gam).

157—-Martin (Beta), Bryan (Phi
Delt), Griffin (Phi Gam), Greene
(Kappa Sig).

167—Acree (SAE), Campbell
(SPE), Lewis (Phi Gam), Heintish
(Kappa Sig).

177—Holshouser (Sigma _ Chi),
Baker (SAE), Finnegan (Kappa
Sig), Hooper (Phi Delt).

191—Broughton (SPE),
john (Phi Gam).

Heavyweight — Hamer (Kappa
Sig), McKinnon (Sigma Chi), Ever-
hart (Phi Gam), Lee (Phi Delt).

Little-

&
No Filter Compares with tiMb.
for Quality or Effectiveness!

Actress Diana Lynn: This is the
best filter of all--LaM's Miracle Tip.
The smoke is mild, yet full of flavor.

a

(Continued From Page Three)
David Fagg, and David Burns.

The powerful swimming team
under the coaching of Carroll
Hambright swam to a 62-22 victory
over East Carolina. Davidson took
first place in all of the events ex-
cept the 200-yard back stroke and
the 400-yard freestyle relay. Those
taking first place for Davidson
were as follows:

Ormond—300 yard medly, Car-
reli—220 yard freestyle, Speir—
50 yard ddsh, Carrell—i50 individ-
ual medley, Sharp—fancy diving,
Speir—100 yard dash, Edwards—
200 yard breaststroke, and Ormond
—440 yard freestyle.

The next meet will be here with
The Citadel, tomorrow at 2:30 o’-
clock.

Babbling Brooks...

(Continued From Page Three)
and his basketball teammates for
their two fine wins over Guilford
College as the basketball season
gets under way again. With the
spirit so far shown, the team could
possibly win several big ones on
intestinal fortitude alone. Out-
standing in both games, Hobby
Cobb is definitely the man to watch
this season. Playing the pivot and
backed by outstanding teammates,
Hobby could go all the way this
season as the most outstanding ball
player ever produced at Davidson.

Cn ee ee

Coaches Comment of the Week:
Danny Miller said, “In the face of
much opposition from those who
were not associated with the Guil-
ford basketball team, the boys con-
ducted themselves as gentlemen
and played cool, heads-up ball all
the way.”

“Good News” .. .
(Continued From Pege One)

in high school. A baritone, Lloyd

sings in the choir of Atlanta's St.

Mark Methodist Church.

Myra Adkins, who teams with
Lloyd Chapin to provide the
laughs, plays the part of Babe O’-
Day. Myra, who lives in Moores-
ville, is a mezzo-soprano. Besides
acting in a number of high-school
plays and musicals, she was a
member of the Playcrafters at Ap-
palachian State Teachers College.

Recently she has been honored
by being presented a “Little Os-
car” on WBT’s “People’s Play-
house.” This Oscar was given her
for the best performance on the
program over a thirteen-week per-
fod. Myra also won the District
Woman's Club Music Contest and
placed second in the state contest.

Bettie Jo Torrence will play the
part of Pat, a wealthy social climb-
er, and Henry Parrish will play
the role of Dillie, the head cheer.
leader at Tate College.

Other members of the cast will
include Bob Stewart as Slim
Saunders, Fred Scott as Coach
Johnson, Jim Traviss as Profes

Faculty Reviews . . .
(Continued From Page One) °
dent Activity Fees,

5. Elimination of several Student
Body Regulations.

Serving on Anderson’s commit-
tee, which has met more than a
dozen times, are Council members
Linny Baker, John Child, Swain
Loy, Charles Rankin, Clark Reed,
and Floyd Feeney, ex officio. Also
serving on this committee are
Gayle Averyt and Austin Strand,
who were appointed by Council
President Feeney to represent the
students-at-large.

188 West Trade Street

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

Phone ED. 2.8257

FRIDAY, DEC. 10, 1054

sor Kenyon, Warner Hall as Kear-
ney, Ron Lanford as Sylvester, Pete
Eller as Windy, Raymond Vaughn
as Slats, Maurice Ritchie as George,
J. D. Stewart as Don, Charles Lam-
bert as Pete, and Patty Kimbrough
and Anne Wilson as cheerleaders.
Backstage Crew

The technical crew includes Jack
Curtis, Gwynn Griffin, and Clyde
Short in charge of lighting; Phil
Koonce in charge of sets; Joanne
Short and Mary Copeland, makeup;
Bob Carmichael, publicity; Jerry
Helms, tickets; Marshall Pitts and
Cliff Deal, ushers; and Frank Ren-
frow, stage manager.

DAVIDSON

THEATRE
All Pletures Will Be Shown
On Our New

P-A-N-O-R-A-M-1-C
WIDE SCREEN

THURSDAY-FRIDAY, 9-10

“Three Coins In The

Fountain”
CLIFTON Wa8B

DOROTHY McGUIRE
JEAN PETERS

SATURDAY 11TH

“Shield For. Murder”
EDMOND O'BRIEN
MARLA ENGLISH

MON.-TUE., DEC. 13-14
?

“River of No Return’

MARILYN MONROE
ROBERT MITCHUM

WEDNSEDAY, D&C. 15

“The Mad Magician”
VINCENT PRICE
MARY MURPHY

THURS-FRI., DEC, 16-17

“Susan Slept Here”
DICK POWELL
DEBBIE REYNOLDS

Enjoy Much

Mr. and Mrs. Sta Erwin, eters of TV. great “Sta
Erwin Show”: As we say on TV, this certainly
és the Miracle Tip. LaM’s Gilter beats ‘em all.

More

HaT is it that makes LaM the most
talked-about, most eagerly accepted,

the fastest growing cigarette of all time?
Just this, It’s the filter that counts—and
none compares with LaM’s MiracleTip. You
get much more flavor, much less nicotine—a

=~
— >

Mrs. Laddie Sanford, Socialites
I smoke LaMe...s0 do most of my
friends. Wonderful filter...fine tastel

Flavor_ Much Less Nicotine

light and mild smoke. That’s effective filtra-
tion. No other cigarette has it!

Why wait totry LaMs? Discover for your-
self what more and more filter tip smokers
are finding out every day: LaMs are just
iohat the doctor ordered.

@ Laseert & Dévane Tooncen Ca
