FRIDAY, APRIL 2, 1054

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE TWO

Action Against BSU Leaders
Smacks Of Injurious Dogmatism

While Senator McCarthy conducts his witch hunt for
communists among members of the armed services, a large
Protestant denomination is conducting its own witch hunt for
heretics in its youth movement.

As is common knowledge among those who follow cur-
rent affairs in North Carolina, the State General Board of
the Baptist Church this week culminated an investigation of
the State Baptist Student Union by firing two campus secre-
taries as well as head of the whole organization in the state.

The chief complaint seemed to be that these men were
stirring up disharmony. What this disharmony consisted of
is hard to say. About the only specific allusions which could be
ferreted from newspaper accounts were to uncertainty in re-
gard to the virgin birth and the rumor of holding interracial
conferences. One general concensus of opinion among those
who did the firing was that these youth leaders were too
liberal theologically and possibly sociologically, as well.

Newspaper accounts referred to testimony by numerous
church laymen and clergy, but conspicuously absent from
these newspaper accounts was any comment pro or con from
the persons most intimately concerned, the student members
of the Baptist youth organizations.

One of the leaders of the firing groups lamented the
amount of publicity given the affair by many newspapers, and
understandably so, for from reading the accounts of the pro-
ceedings one cannot help but get an unsavory impression of
the apparent dogmatism and intolerance that seems to have
prompted the whole affair.

It would be unfair to hastily condemn the conservative
element with no inside knowledge of the complaints and their
causes. But from what has appeared in public print, this ap-
pears to be a cause of short-sighted, and misguided fundamen-
talism on the part of those making the condemnation and
accusations. We do not question the motives of these people
whom we believe to be acting in good faith. What we do
question is their lack of judgment concerning the nature of| ‘The recent decision of the Ad-
the problem of evangelism on the campus, and their ignorance American’ neopl cadets ihe
of the fact that it is not to be solved by leaders whose funda- eon fhe import:
mentalism is stretched to non-fundamental issues. ance of French Indochina to our

own security was long overdue,
Religion must insist on fundamentals, but not on| Ut 2 least the decision was made
secondary theological points warped into the “sine quo non” before it was too late.
a criterion of faith.

The French people are growing
very weary of carrying on a cam-
The racial issue which cropped up during the proceed- ary acne Teaodnunist ne
ings is one which the church is going to have to face sooner beginning to appear more and more
or later. Perhaps the church has more to lose than to gain|that if the French are going to
Fight now in taking the lead here in the South. But for the] emerge as the victors in this long
church to become a bulwark of racial intolerance would be} ®"¢ pitter struegle, or even gain
almost fatal, not only to the organization but to the principles @ safe and honorable truce, they
on which it is founded. The question is indeed delicate, but it
cannot be solved by refusing to even tolerate meetings where
black and white can come together and exchange opinions.

are going to need much greater as-

sistance from the United Stetes,

even to the extent of utilizing

some of our military forces.

The situation in Indochina is

All of this is hardly relevant to the Davidson student ex-}now grave for two reasons, which

cept as religion itself is relevant. We feel impelled to com-| f@ closely related: (1) the conflict

ment on this situation among our Baptist colleagues because taht in eae an trecious man
it is one which is not unheard of among Presbyterians as
weli—not to mention other denominations. It seems to us that
this is another example of good intentions gone astray, and
of Christians stressing absolute agreement to the letter of the
Bible, and in doing so overlooking some of the broader, more
important teachings of that Book. It is this sort of intolerance

power and the perennially weak
financial resources of the French,

that plays a large part in keeping thoughtful non-Christians

outside the Church.

Only Student Body Opinion
Can Uphold Drinking Rules

to end hostilities at almost any
It is no secret that within the past few days there has

cost; (2) the necessity of keeping
a large body of troops in Indo-
been an alleged case of drinking on campus before the Stu-
dent Council.

OFF-MOORINGS:

Football Committee Report Of
Vital Importance To Future

Ry JIM MOORE

players or awarded scholarships to
current players, thus making the
college morally obligated to the
students.

The most important single effect,
in an administrative way, that this
new move has had is to put the
wedge of trustee sanction on a
split of power on the administer-
ing and policy-making athletics—
taking it from the administration
and putting it in the dual hands
of the trustees and the athletic
department.

Ke<P Your
UMFOoRM in Good ~
CONDITION coe REMEMBER
GEWTLEMEW coco ™

SUPPLY EcONOMT>S

and universities.
He outlined the path of further

Recently there has been a great
mass of air blown over the ath-
letic situation at Davidson. Some
of it has been hot; some cold. All
of it has liad at least one quality
in common. ‘

Every person genuinely  in-
terested in this perplexing problem
has the best interests of someone,
some group, or the college at
heart. The views offered vary in
direct proportion to the particular
loyalty of the person who is sound-
ing off.

That my point of view happens
to be for the good of the college
as a whole influences greatly what
1 have written and will continue
to write.

New Information

It has. been uncovered that the
action of the trustees to have the
college underwrite the. athletic
scholarship program is a one year
trial plan which will be reviewed
and accepted or rejected, or so re-
ports Dr. Sam Spencer.

The trustees in making their de-
cision will doubtless depend
Strongly on the report of the
faculty-trustee committee on ath-
letics. This committee is composed
of ten men, five from each group.

They are now in the process of
formulating a statement of aims
for Davidson’s athletic program
and will give to the trustees in
their May meeting the committee
report and such recommendations
as they deem best.

The committee had its duty en-
larged somewhat from the former
task of investigating the athletic] Ivy League.
machinery to the fuller scope of| In these articles Mr. Allison
policy and long range athletic Danzie, the writer, discussed at
aims for Davidson. some length the progression of

No matter what the committee} of events that led to the unethical
Teport turns out to be, however,] practices of lowering of academic
the college will by that time have! standards, of outside subsidization,
committed itself to underwriting] of proselyting, of fantastic recruit-
a $35,000 athletic subsidy. Thejing practices, and he went on to
football and basketball coaches| show the economic hole into which
will already have recruited new/| football had forced many colleges

v4

corruption, abuses, and lack of dis-
cipline which have periodically
shocked the nation and have occa-
sionally caused college presidents
and deans to resign.

The reference here is specifically
to the crisis at William and Mary
College in 1951, when it was dis-
covered that the records of foot-
ball players had been altered and
grades op transcripts changed.

No McCarthy

Please do not be misled into a
McCarthy way of thinking that
reasons thus: “This man says there
are evils in subsidized football.
I want a winning team and the
betterment of football. There-
fore, that guy is against football.

Nothing could be further from
the truth. My greatest interest in
continuing to write this column
is to attempt’ to present views
which seem, on a broad num-
ber of accounts and without
reference to a narrow field of in-
terest, the best in the light of the
available information.

One must admit that his time is
limited, his resources often leave
much to be desired, and his under-
standing of the underlying issues
may not be as clear as that of those
who are in closer contact with the
situation.

Still one must exert his intel-
lectual right to ferret out such in-
formation as he can gain and to
make such comments as his con-
sefence and mind tell him he must.

Davidson stil) finds itself in its
former position of facing two pri-
mary problems where football is
concerned, even after the trustees
steal an unspecified sum from the
college and turn it over to athletic
subsidization.

Our college may continue to
compete in the conference in
which we find ourselves, or we may

(Continued On Page Four)

Divorce

Divorcing athletic policy from
the administration and imparting it:
to elther the athletic department
which has motives forced on it
from outside (alumni) which will
inevitably cause it to abuse {ts
power or giving the authority to
the trustees of the college who
are not a unified, well-organized,
in constant-seksion group, is the
first material step down the road
to the athletic class of which I
wrote several weéks ago. '

The history of intercollegiat
football shows this to be a demon-
strable fact.

Recently (March 22, 23, 24)
there appeared a series of articles
in the New York Times on the
evolution and current state of af-
fairs in intercollegiate athletics
today. This was prompted by and
had particular emphasis on the
recent agreement of the Ivy
League presidents to de-emphasize
and further amateurize football as
it is played in the schools of the

Indochina Far Away, But Vital
To Security Of Free World

By DICK ROPER

cornerstone of Western European
defense, it should be obvious that
we want to remove all possible
obstacles from the path to French
ratification of the treaty. At the
same time our Government con-
siders, as Secretary of State
Dulles stated this week, that “the
imposition on Southeast Asia of
the politica) system of Communist
Russia and its Chinese Communist
ally, by whatever means, would be
@ grave threat to the whole free
community.”

‘In view of these circumstances,
it is not surprising that Secretary
Dulles made the assertion, ap-
proved beforehand by the Presi-
dent, that the U.S. Government
feels that the possibility of Com-
munist domination of Indochina
“should not be passively accepted,
but should be met by united
action.” Here the Secretary of
State clearly avoided mentioning
any specific measures that we
might take, but in view of the
prevailing situation as described
above he certainly seems to be say-
ing that if the U.S. deems it neces-
sary and vital to the security of
the “whole free community,”
American military forces in the
form of both men and material
may be sent to the Indochinese
theater.

earth, but we may expect to hear
such a cry if it ever appears that
we may have to send troops to aid
the French in their struggle
against the forces of Ho Chi Minh
and his rebel Vietminh forces.
If the turn of events is such
that direct intervention by the
U.S. becomes necessary, we may
expect the opposition to such a
move to take two principal stands.
Those opposed to intervention
probably will say first that a truce
(Continued On Page Four)

Your Wings are
your Passport

china causes. the French to be that
much more reluctant to ratify the
European Defense Community
treaty, because they feel it is im-
perative they have at least as many
men under arms at home as their
historic enemy Germany, which is
to rearm upon the ratification of
EDC.

Ne Great Cry

As yet, there seems to have been
no great hue and cry from the
American people about sending
American fighting men to the other
side of the globe, to a country
which is pretty nearly as far away
from the U.S. as any place on

BOC Is Cornerstone
Since the United States at
present hopes to make EDC the

Powerful Student Group

Without any further reference to this situation, except as
it throws light on the whole problem on the campus, we feel oom
impelled to express our opinion. Is Urgent Necessity .
Drinking on campus here at Davidson has, in the past, By RONALD WILSON
not been a serious problem. Notwithstanding the right of| puring the speeches to the stu:, which will be influential to stu-

dent life, then we should and
must have the privilege of ap-
pearing before the trustees,
discussing the problems, and
strongly recommending our
solution te the problem?

This group would also have the
purpose of meeting with the ad-
ministration, discussing any pro-
posed changes and reporting to the
student body what changes have
been recommended, aiong with
reasons supporting these recom-
mendations. Much of the furor
aroused about the freshman eat-
ing problem could have been
avoided if the administration had
simply informed the students of
the proposed plan in advance, and
then opened up for any sugges-
tions which would result in an
equitable settlement for both. It’s
sheer stupidity to expect a college

every individual to make his own personal decision about
drinking, we feel that it has no place on this campus. This
opinion is shared by many who do drink as well as by tee-total
abstainers.

At many colleges the “no drinking on campus” rule has
become something of a farce, to say the least. Thus far, this
has not happened at Davidson, and we hope it never will.
The reason it has not, is not because the Student Council acts
as a group of vigilantes, listening at doors, and sniffing stu-
dents’ breath but because the great majority of the student
body realize the value of the-rule, and if they do drink, do so
away from the campus.

The Student Council realizes that the drinking rules can-
not be effective without the support and co-operation of the
student body, and has no desire to police the campus. We
heartily urge the continued support of the student body on
this point, which we believe is one of those that differentiates
Davidson from scores of other colleges, and sets her off ‘a

dent body last Wednesday, a point
came out which could well be ex-
plored farther. As intimated, this
student body is amazingly inept
in making any decisions concern-
ing the school policy, mainly be-
cause we have no voice whatso-
ever which can carry student
opinion and feeling to the admin-
istration or the trustees. The Stu-
dent-Faculty Committee is sup-
posed to represent some meeting
ground between the two groups;
however, this committee has been
largely ineffectual in handling im-
portant, pressing problems. There-
fore, an obvious need exists for
the students themselves to form
an independent group which is
capable of mediating any problem
which arises between the students
and the administration.
This group could be op-

“8

wherever you go... » 4 > |

Your Air Force wings are your an Air Force Lieutenant and P°"""" Lord
personal passport to universal re- earnings of over $6,000 a year! ! AVIATION CADET, arpre-p-

a

little above the common run. peinted by the Student Coun, student body to meekly accept a ‘
cll or elected the stu new plan which radi chi oa e Headg
pod. thelr lob would a . the gute previous trethnen re spe ct and obnuration. mney ‘rea mey come complete with the ‘ Washfogton 45, 0,077
, , nity relationship, and on sign—recognized everywhere— admiration of a grateful Nation. , .
necessary collectively bargai d tice, too. With such , . a : ° .
THE DAVIDSONIAN || Sis" Stray ind |i tet venineull So] ‘thutmarkyoussoneotAmerice’sarsaunecngle between ana {Pitt nde informaton on
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE trustees about matters [eliminated or quickly resolved; finest. in this p; | j nar
COLLEGE YEAR Gents. This group should have | ctor eansea cae, antagonism than To wear them, you must win to Sees. Je in t he abort i, ores Pile
SDITORIN-CHIEF ‘Moody Smith |] the privilege of presenting our ! , thi id : Tee other eon
ae Tama tae || Socrates | Scorn | Timcqcatim Aton Cat, Cat Por farther information,
lore, pulsory eating inion, . je thelr main come ars out thi . ertesees eevee
Matered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, the” college te nenvoeinta te On etivence “stedery vronect a coupon y } _ ° °
co responsibio ani ance le
HS under the Act of Mare 3 a. the trustess, f problems rise | (Continued On Page Four). UNITED STATES AIR FORCE fn
