Ti “OT DAV-DSOLTIA.

clume a

SOUTER SCAIDAL TE KUFUS Ken

_ Wd, here we are <t the end of another RM. DANCE WIE.

sunmer session at D.C, Sore of us have lanie sirikes on the canous +c cvery-

had a good timo, others of us have studied one is tur'-rym; round lil:e rad in an

bar’, Le ws rewerber these thines... effort to ‘al.c thc last minute date and
Al Aiken ’eles of the "folks around beauesr nerlor spoointnents for the

Creenville"... "Surrer “re. ics" to %e he?d here on tc
Gene “vrreron mid his 4 slus in Biolovy. "Gosh, ¢o vou thin: i” she'd really
Bele Crinkerhsff's sine pong cha pion- cone if I'd ask her?"

“bi ese "Wt who vants to sect all ereesed w: in
fienry réelmann's srorts articles... 2 cot and tie in verther like this.”
harry -rommice's Piss... "Letts us ueser jeans end © vee shirt
Just ~-ho cit’ cut Tick Bunn's frog in end stand orts*de end lis cn to the msic

dalf?°? Theso were sore of tho coments th-t herve
Joe Cerpbell. in cheristrr lab... been msde by sore of the bows. joi: let's
Kenny Concer's ~alliing shorts... see thew. the co-ees have to som tic
M1 of Cap Cricclebaugh's brig! t ree su'viece.

MAYKS oo "Goll , J thourbt he'd never ask me."
Gake'c icer 07 + nieht well syent... Mut linther, *'vo jusi. got to hzve a new
Edo “thrt is net my kid" Douglass's dress, 'cavse I cen't war anv of uy old

Clovhes... clothes."

“Ally Duke and Thorny Frick's constant "J coon hardly: it, te-use ater all T

Priendshineecs do hav. tie cu est dite on campus" (as
Mller "ry's wilii-r to spill thincs on the co-eds fall into 1 ae debat over

nin celf... that last st tenent).

Lill Carrison's long end nurerous letters.  ‘Mhat coule be . ove exciting than stuay-

P43). Gordon, Warncr !n11, Dill Watt, Al ing for *y Saturds. revier, after all who

way, Julicn Veinturg and all tie other “nts io the dance? ic, darn it!!

cord SHLr:S... Tis Seen rv ored thet the rusic is
Ree Narcing's sudcen hostility... eoing “.o be reallv mreat, so fellovs and
Torry Fall's Softhell Tear... eseecs coe on. “fter -1l, can you tink
Charlie lierris. and Georrn Cousar's of a bettcr wav to ond swa’r schcol than

“th fro; the l-> to the librorv... b vin, d'nee? See vr! there.

Viecjrais Puller ere Jo nnctte JHESHRRHERE ENE EAB
Verroavli's meth ws mous. .

Cheeze havent 's sio 4s irts.. STALL COE ss .

rally *panhte -n2 0 tb eres tn 4 ) this friday nitht on the terris of the

Tack i.cvette cone Csrlie tasse: 's interes 11 Union, the § hetivits C
in the s vince on their Dictogy tour... bese is rese bi 5 Seam ° 1a 2s The

io) Valles, -ohn Fite, nd Jeln Partricge™s” cc ty rosen in cum re ics. au re

mating in long iowrs -t the un‘on... oe pr wahs onan : t 2200 wid Tusic 9.

We Toye. . a provid ¢ by the "lorrowmen".
ome “eliers's Priondshi: At this Somi-Fortal Daneo, «irls “ill
. we - 1 <> * cat

Sdcaite « « venr cither porty Crosscs or formals. Foa
Yhe cet.erson t-ins...which me i: s the tlc ron, co: +S ond. oC will be he ress.

toni??? Tici-ots : ay ¢ obi.w3nce frov ee
Jorn Richard's abilitx to take everv- Mey Oe Harding, Couples $1.00;

1,300 4 nine . °

hen aw BELG + 6+ Ytrl1 Come “nd “ring a Pricnal
doe Rindlc's swymrn... IER RRE RB HERE ERR
Clete Robinson sa ir: tha. J 's rll . ¢

Cre to hdres. RAY HARDING'S tcoan THO conped the oumrer
Cl- + WPHALL Come heed and his Wed- Sof thal? Cl: rnionship ycstercay oy

capies nich’ ‘rograns... dofo-tin Penrie lebstcre ca. Orr. 1-13.
ta Shive ru ning ar onclwis en ice ton bard n ts toa ondee. the s'/9on "it. a
gel*-Sluce's trips to the river ane 0 record.

“4th iiss

wy

IC NN IERIERUIER KR IIR Sd

ot er Pareicir 0 1 ee.
ean bind! Unned cu0der see
Do:. ‘Mict:er hevine to pet sore vine:
Lo } Pesh near y ever mornimfes.
[4: Yor e, «ne ho @ hove to see tire

tex an! Jeavea nieee
- ‘3 it, ids. < I vake thi.

omni, io then my ot £° for vc
“ator? 1 sob tier icve cone this sm mer.
Mhont:s for ~our (ho reorders) carrie ts—
4oL> good Aue Dete-eonermher, it's “our
“acer. Sce vor rou BA AUG eee

an ta es an ta oc aa

2 0TF

Tae lest res dll de servee “oencs
wach in ibe Sollere Union Lineing
HCO! .

acy

A.

—
-?
on

Tow th:. the summer sccsgion his cmost
drm to 2 close tie YiCA reco:nizs the
hel: ful assistance ‘hat iis 9 rticinantc
hive eiven to tie prograr, Or sirecre
amyreci tion 1ors te all who h ve had wx
nart ind ling our carmus 1jfe cvring one
summer both scenin: ful to oursclv ai a
ot othors.

Tre Y aorecivies U1 the suczect' ons
Lreb hove bean r-de to mice its “rocran
move effective and wishes to cach of ou
- ver’ snjoyable sunncr.

(Dic’ Lovettc's ring- ong contreet has
deen renuice for ne3.l sumer ho
popul-r acclair. )
