With only two games
remaining on the Da-
vidson football sched-
ule, the interest of Da-
vidson supporters is
now being divided be-
tween the winning grid

PRE-SEASON DRILLS CATS TO GO
NOW UNDER WAY FOR

WINTER-SPORT SQUADS

FOR SIXTH WIN
TOMORROW NIGHT

he Dabidsonian

ORTA CIBERTAS

ALENDA CUR UBS

4 squad and the coming
basketball season. Da-
vidson’s cagers have
Started pre - season
practice, and now have
two scrimmage games
under their belts. With
the call out for candi-
dates for the team, ov-
er forty players show-
ed up for the opening
sessions. Since then, the squad has been cut because time
does not permit the work necessary with so large a group.
Coach Danny Miller has been working with the Varsity, and
Buddy Brown is coaching the Junior Varsity.

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

There has been no great change in Davidson personnel
with many of the Junior Varsity of last year now with the
Varsity. Several freshmen have looked good enough in early
practice to stick with the Varsity, and some of this group may
be around for a lot of Davidson games this year. The fresh-
men have not quite found themselves as yet, and some are a
little slow in making the change to the Miller offensive pat-
terns.

Thus far, Mike Martin has been the outstanding perform-
er on the list of frosh. The former North High flash has look-
ed good in practice and is, from our viewpoint, the best pros-
pect for Varsity play this season. However, there are several
frosh players who will undoubtedly stick with the varsity this
season, and only time will tell about the ability of all.

GUARDS LOOK GOOD

When looking the Cats over in practice, several items
catch the eye of the by-stander. One notices that the Davidson
club has a surplus of steady, dependable guards. “Pappy”
Fowle is the veteran of the group, and as a senior, “Pappy”
will probably have his best year. Up from the freshman team
of ’53-'54 are Dave Shaw and Richard Weeks who are sure to
see plenty of action this season. Weeks has been ill recently,
and the Savannah boy may be Jate in joining the club.

Turning an eye to the forward prospects, we see veter-
ans Ray Harding and Ish Bennett holding the starting roles at
the present time. These two boys were starters for Coach Miil-
er last season, and they have the experience necessary to do
some good work. Harding ‘has been alternating at the guard
position when certain line-up changes are made, and Ray has
looked good there, too.

When Davidson observers take a look at the center post
in the Cat line-up, they see the weakest spot on the club. At
the present time, Coach Miller is using Hobby Cobb at the po-
sition. Last year, Cobb was one of the starting forwards on the
Davidson club and played a little in the center slot, too. The
Charlotte boy handles the forward position much better than
the slot, but the absence of an adequate “big man” on the ros-
ter has forced Miller to move his leading scorer to the im-
portant spot. Sophomore Gaylord Walker and Junior Al Aiken
are also out for the job, but neither has shown the spark
necessary to hold it down.

SEVERAL SCHEDULE CHANGES

A number of changes have been made in the basketball
schedule for this season. Most noticeable will be the absence of
traditional opponents from the North Carolina area. Both
North Carolina and N. C. State have been dropped from the
schedule, along with two South Carolina clubs, Clemson and
U.S.C. New opponents include University of the South and
Southwestern, two Tennessee teams. The University of the
South (Sewanee) team toured Europe several seasons back
and should be a tough opponent. Not very much is known
about the cagers from Southwestern, but the game is to be
played in Memphis at the opening of their new gym which is
to be dedicated at that time.

The Most Populer
40% Cashmere
Blend

Char-Grey, Black, Char-
Brown, Oatmeal, Lt. Ox.
Grey, French Blue, Cher-

ry, Maroon, Dk. Green,
Lt. Green, Brick, Choco-

tate, Brick Heather, Navy
Heather.

$13.95

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.

“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”

Next to Bank Davidsen, N. C.

FRIDAY, NOV. -12, 1954

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Cats Rack Catawba
in Wild Contest

BY LEON HOWGBLL

‘For thirty sluggish minutes last
Saturday at Richardson Field, Da-
vidson seemed destined to contrib-
ute its name to the list of the up-
sets in this unpredictable football
season. However, a thoroughly
aroused Wildcat bared its teeth and
clawed to another victory, this
time against Catawba, in the sec-
ond half..

The rugged Indians almost rush-
ed Davidson off its feet at the out-
set of the game. Before the team
became aroused, Catawba had
punched across their first six-point-
er. In fact, the only bright spot in
the first quarter was McRee's
beautiful 52-yard punt which roll-
ed dead on the three yard line.

In the second canto, McRee’s
punt return to the 28 and a Belton
pass to the 7 appeared to have
Davidson rolling. A fumble on the
six killed this threat, and the In-
dians, led by Swanner’s 40-yard
jaunt, promptly drove 94 yards
for their second TD. After again
failing to convert, Catawba had a
surprising 12 to 0 lead.

Fumble Nullified

After the kickoff, Rowland pass-
ed from his own 32 to Gramley,
who fought and scrambled 52 yards
with it to the 16. On the ensuing
play, Davidson got a break that
was one of the turning points of
the game. A Cat fumble was pick-
ed up by an Indian, but play was
halted and Catawba penalized to
their 1 for slugging. The work-
horse of the day, Harley Smith,
drove in for the score. “Toe” Tal-
bert lifted the extra point through,
and the half ended with Catawba
in front, 12-7. —

A new ball club hit Catawba in
the second half, and the score soon
indicated it. Brown sparked the
first drive with a dash of 25 yards,
and Bill Rowland got the 6 points
that put us in the lead. Before
long, Jimmy Thacker tallied, and
Talbert put us safely ahead, con-
verting again.

MeCree Gallops

In the final quarter, Dyke Lit-
tle, on a quarterback keep, picked
up 20 yards, then hit McRee on the
next play with a scoring pass. Mc-
Ree added the final points on the
most spectacular run of the day, a
88-yard gallop on a punt return,
aided by a great block from Tom
Newton.
Petersen, Abernathy, and espec-
jally Newton were the line stand-
outs. Despite a bad charleyhorse,
Newton was outstanding on both

passes in the process. Harley
Smith was the backfield star, play-
ing perhaps his finest game this
year, running well and coming up
with several key plays on defense.
Henry Brown, as usual, was almost
unstopable, averaging 6.8 yards on
@ carries.

Sophomore halfback Don McRee
amassed a huge amount of yard-
age, a8 well as scoring twice in the
affair. Besides rushing for 15
yards, he carried three punts back
for 90, one kickoff for 38, and

The passing attack, more formid.
able than usual, connected on 6 of
12 tosses, good for 116 yards,
while the rushers accounted for
162 yards. Compared to Catawba’s
net of/271, Davidson picked up
296 as its final total.

Drink
‘M
O
O
R’

Mooresville
Creamery, Inc.

The Kappa Sigs won the Flicke
defeating the K.A.’s in an overtim

touchdown throughout the first half. Th
took over the lead by making two six-pointers but were forced | Tuesday, November 30,
to settle for a tie when the K.A.’s pushed across for their sec-| Wednesday, the finals will be run.
ond marker. Because the game ended in a 12-12 leadlock, 3
overtime was played which the Kappa Sigs won by advancing :

sre vpall eight yards farther than did the K.A.'s. The victory| to Mey", ve le’ lait on in
gave the Kappa Sigs a 10 win, 1 loss record and the cham-| giyiduat participation this year,

On the same day the Phi Delts
a 55-0 score for an easy
“over the Independents. The
win gave the Phis a 9-2 record and
the runner-up position. The KAs|SPEs, 12 to 6.
ranked third, and three teams—
Sigma Chi, Pika, and Beta—tied

it

A Davidson player falls on a Cat fumble in lest week's scrap with Catewbe. The Cats shook off s
12.point Catawba lead and came back to win, 32-32.

Phi Delts 2nd, KA’s Srdlsr ror teomber

BY JOHNNY JOHNSON

Team

In Tuesday’s action, the S.A.E.s| Kappa Sigs
seored at will, downing the Phi| Phi Delts
Gams, 55-0. The Pi Kapps eased|KAs .
by the SPE's, 12 to 6. The Pikas/| Betas
held a two touchdown lead during | Pikas ;
the first half of their game with|Sigma Chi
the Betas, but were unable to/S AE. _
keep it as the Beta boys scored six|A.T.0.s .
touchdowns to finish their season | Pi Kapps
with a 36-18 win and a 7-4 record.

On Wednesday, four teams play-
ed games that had been postponed

nit Terriers To
po yee

rball crown last Monday | ed that the annual Inter-fraternity
e. In one of the season's | swimming meet will be held on No-

sest games, the Rebels scored early and led by that lone | vember 30 and December 1. Time
e Kappa Sigs then trials will take place at 7:30 on

during the regular season. The Pi
Kapps beat the S.A.E.s, 20 to 12,
and the KAs triumphed over the| meet will be held on December 7

The final but unofficial stand-|°f the eighth. There will be nine
ings are as follows:

Lily

i
|
Orweanraav8e©eS&€

SPEs .......--
Phi Gams —_......-—_—-.
Independents -.... .-__-. .

The feuding between the

beaten Wofford Terriers.

The Cats, presently riding a
two-game winning streak, the lat-
est victory being an impressive
32-12 win over Catawba, are gun-
ning for their sixth win of the
current season. A win this Satur-
day would give the Cats the best

won six, lost two, and tied one.

Wofford started the season with
only a fair outlook for the season.
Coach Sindow had only fifteen re-
turning lettermen, most of whom
had had only one year of exper-

. _ cg Be «“ 4

Coach Pete Whittle has announc-

and on

There will be eight events with

Donnie McCree was one of the
stars in last week’s win over
Catawba. The soph back scored
twice for the Cats, once on a 58-
ard punt return. He'll see pien-
ty of action tomorrow night at
Wofford.

ience at operating from the split-
T formation. However, he and his
assistants have wielded the Ter-
riers into a powerful unit built
around Little All-American candi-
date and Co-captain Joe Hazle. The
Terriers have won seven games to
date with their lone loss being
suffered at the hands of The Cita-
del, ‘14-13, Wofford beat Davidson's
other mutual foes, Catawba, 33-0,
Stetson, 40-0, and Presbyterian,
20-13.

The Gold and Black Terriers
(Continued On Page Four)

with one man being able to swim
in only two events and 1 relay.

The Inter-fraternity wrestling
and 8, with the finals on the night

weight divisions, with the winners
of each division earning six points
for his team in final scoring.

Details of these two sport meets
will be covered in next week's is-
sue of The Davidsonian.

By virtue of wining the foot-
ball championship, the Kappa Sigs
now lead the race for this year.
Wrestling and swimming both pre-
cede Greek basketball, which will
start after Christmas.

Qhb hWN =F

=—=O@7®

~~ be

record since the 1934 edition which |

morrow Night

*\Davidson Must Be Up;
Wofford Rated Favorite

BY BOB PULLIAM

Presbyterians and the Metho-

dists will be renewed again this Saturday night at Spartan-
burg, S. C., when the Davidson Wildcats take on the once-

Wildcat Harriers
3rd In Stale Mee!

BY BUNNY PERKINSON

The Davidson Cross Country
squad leaves Sunday for Lexington,
Va., and the Southern Conference
meet to be held Monday morning
beginning at 11:30. Coach Pete
Whittle’s thin clads will be going
after a large share of the trophies
given to the first twenty-five fin-
ishers, and the team to beat for the
championship seems to be the de-
fending champs from the Univer-
sity of West Virginia. The other
schools entered are V.M.L, Wash-
ington & Lee, William & Mary,
V.P.I. and Richmond. Coach Whit-
tle’s only comment in speaking of

‘| the meet was, “Hope we win a good

many trophies.”
Last Monday, the Cats warmed

.Jup for the conference meet by
'! competing in the state meet held
‘lat Raleigh, between Davidson,

Carolina, N. C, State, and Duke.
Standout for the Cats was sopho-
more Pete Ashcraft, who ran a
beautiful race and finished fifth
with a time of 21:15.5 over the
four mile course. Jones of State
literally “nosed” out Pete for
fourth place, winning by inches in
the most thrilling finish of the
day. Out of a field of 40 contes-
tants, the other Davidson entrees
finished this way: Feeney 16th,
Handley 20th, Patterson 22nd,
Huntley 25th, Lovette 27th, Jack-
son 28th, Wilson 30th, and Wood
34th.

Carolina took the meet by vir-
tue of having Beatty and Barden
finish first and second respective-
ly, with Beatty setting a meet rec-
ord of 20:10. Favored State had
previously defeated Carolina in a
dual meet. Miller of State took
third, with Jones and Ashcraft fin-
ishing just behind him.

NOW! A filter cigarette real smokers can enjoy!

Winston tastes good—
like a cigarette should!

@ Winston brings flavor back to filter smoking
—full, rich, tobacco flavor! No wonder college
smokers are flocking to Winston—on campuses
across the country! Along with real fiavor—
the kind you've been missing in filter smokes

—Winston brings you a finer filter. This exclu- pack of Winstons!

sive Winston filter is unique, different, truly
superior! It works so effectively, yet doesn’t
“thin” the taste or flatten the flavor. Winstons
are king-size, too, for extra filtering action—
and easy-drawing for extra good taste. Try a

R. J. MRVNOLOS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, s &
