Speaking ~ ¥

- of -
Sports ®7*

By JIM HOLSHOUSER
In February of 1965, Davidson's Board of Trustees will
meet again to determine policies and steps for improvement
of the college. A major part of the discussion in this meeting
will probably deal with Davidson’s athletic program and poli-
cles. This subject has been a problem at Davidson, and opinion
is quite varied as to the solution.

We've talked to a number of students about this matter,
and the majority of them have ideas along this line: Davidson
“needs” good athletic teams; it would be a big booster to stu-
dent moral which has been consistantly crushed by many loss-
es; it would be fine to have good teams but we don’t want
“tramp athletes”; a non-subsidization program would be harm-
ful because some of our best leaders come from the athletic
ranks, and many potential leaders will go to other schools
where they can get an athletic scholarship; athletic scholar-
ships are a good thing because they will enable some boys to
attend Davidson when they could not otherwise because of fi-
nancial difficulties.

A FEW PALLACIES

Davidson is a member of the Southern Conference and
plays about four or five conference foes each year. All con-
ference schools, with the exception of Washington and Lee,
subsidize pretty heavily. Davidson is usually near or at the
bottom in amount of subsidizing, and our teams finish at the
same level. When the athletic scholarship amount was raised
last year, our football team promptly finished in the first di-
vision for a change. The difference?—Simply better football,
the type that fans want to see and the type in which students
can take pride. And our better players weren't gangsters or
anything like that. The boys who were on the team certainly
ranked favorably with the rest of the student body in that
general class known as the “Davidson Gentlemen.” There are
no “hoods” on the squad as a result of careful screening by
the coaches who scouted the players. This screening is the
policy of Davidson coaches, and as long as this continues,
there will be no complaints about Davidson’s having “tramp
athletes.” An increase in subsidization will not mean Davidson
will have lower-quality boys coming here.

A common fallacy in the ideas of thosé against athletic
grants is the idea that by having good football players and a
good team, Davidson scholastic standards will be lowered. A
look at past records will quickly disprove this. Last year, for
instance, the average of the football team was well above the
student body average and was above the average of eight of
the campus fraternities . Our athletes, it seems, are actually
better scholars than most of the Davidson students.

In reaching a decision on athletic policy, it is only fair
that the trustees know how the students feel. Facts like those
above should show them that though Davidson “could” begin
a non-subsidization program, there are better reasons for giv-
ing athletic aid, bringing Davidson better football and better
men.

NON-SUBSIDIZATION

IDEA CRITICIZED

r

The Mabidsonian

ALERDA CUR VBI CRTA LIBERTAS

CAT CAGERS
TO HIT DUKE

NEXT TUESDAY

FRIDAY, DEC. 10, 19:

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Kappa Sigs Place :hree Gn Stars

All-Fraternity Squad
Selected For Football

BY BUNNY P&ERKINSON

Of the three sports considered major sports in the race
for Intramural Athletics Championship Trophy, perhaps the
one which excites most interest is the tag football league.
Those who have seen or taken part in any of the games are
well aware that the term “tag” is very deceiving and that one

would often be safer while engag-
Cat Basketeers
On the Road For
Five-Day Tour

Davidson's Varsity basketball
team left the campus yesterday on
a five-day trip which takes them
into South Carolina and Tennessee
for four games. Last night the first
game of the trip was played against
The College of Charleston, and to-
night the Cats meet The Citadel.
Tomorrow the cagers fly to Mem-
phis, where they will meet Sewanee
and Southwestern. The team will
return to Davidson on Tuesday to
meet Duke's Blue Devils here.

Last night the Wildcats absorb-
ed their first defeat of the current
season as they were downed by the
College of Charleston cagers, 92-
69. Sparked by a 31-point splurge
by Lou Roempke, the Charleston
crew jumped into the lead in the
first half and was ahead at half-
time, 53-37.

The Maroons, playing their first
contest of the season, got double-
column scoring totals from four
players, and the outcome of the
game was not in doubt after the
halfway mark. Hobby Cobb scored
21 points to lead the Davidson scor-
ing. Ray Harding hit for 12 points,
and Dave Shaw got 10.

The Davidson club remained

(Continued On Page Four)

THE DAVIDSON STUDENTS PICK ‘EM

Seb Leen Jen John. Bunny
Pulliam Howell Regen Johnson Perkinson
lhe —_—_—
N. C. State over Eastern Kentucky N. C. State N. C. Sta State State
Duke over Maryland Duke Duke ~- Maryland Duke |
Wake Forest over George Washington | Wake Forest | Wake Forest Wake Forest | Geo, Wash.
William and Mary over U.N.C. U.N, C. W. & M. U.N. C. W. & M.
Furman over Texas Tech Furman Furman Furman Furman
N. C. State over Texas Tech N. C. State N. C. State N. C. State State
Maryland over U.N.C. Maryland U.N. C. Maryland Maryland
St. Johns over N. C. State N.C. State N. C. State State State
Richmond over West Virginia Richmond Richmond Richmond Richmond
Duke over Pittsburgh Duke Duke Duke Duke
Maryland over Wake Forest Maryland Wake Forest Maryland Wake Forest
- N. ¥. U. over Furman N. ¥. U. N. ¥. U. N. Y¥. U. N. ¥. U.

ing in a little head-on tackling or
some two-on-one with half a dozen

‘arry Petersons. The contests are
always marked by an exceptional
display of spirit, but the bumps
and bruises are forgotten in the
heat of battle. Each year, after
the smoke clears, an all-star team
is picked by the participants.

The season ended a few weeks
ago, and since that time a group
composed of seven members from
each squad has voted and come up
with an all-interfraternity team

as usual, placed Perrin Anderson, ,

star performer of the Sigma Chis,
at the top of the heap. “P.A.”
edged out Larry McIntosh of the
KA’s for the top spot by a single
vote, 37 to 36. Both these boys
were undoubtedly the sparkplugs
of their teams, and each still has
another season. The closenesss of
the voting is illustrated by the
fact that there was a three-way
tie for the sixth place on the
select first team, with the result
that eight men were selected in-
stead of the usual seven. Four
seniors and four juniors made the
first team.

FIRST TEAM
Name Fraternity
Perrin Anderson Sigma Chi
Larry McIntosh . —. w=. K. A.
Corky Clark ~.. _.. Kappa Sig
Phil Koonce ... . . ATO,
Joe Billy Pharr . wees Pika

Frank Mitchener _.. ... Phi Delt
Johnny Smith . Kappa Sig
Lacy Keesler Kappa Sig

SECOND TEAM

Name Fraternity
Dan Leach 2 -..-- Phi Delt
Don Massey .... ._... . A.T.O.
Dick Makepeace . Kappa Sig

Shorty Sfaelos -. . _. Beta
Doug Andrews .......... Phi Delt
‘Buzz Hope .........._. Sigma Chi
Tom Lambe —_._.._.. aw. Beta

New filter cigarette brings
flavor back to filter smoking!

a

te te ORF

° <

4

me

THEY ARE THE BEST ....

JERRY SPEAKS

Babbling Brooks

BY JERRY BROOKS

A football player’s statement concerning subsidization:
“They ought to go ahead with it or drop it, They shouldn't
try to stay in the middle of the road. I try to look at it from
that presents an imposing array|the coach’s standpoint. Undoubtedly, he would like to have
of stars. The balloting, very close,| the money to get good men. There is no reason to think that

higher subsidization should lower
the academic standards the school
tries to maintain. After all, it has
been proven that all good foot-

[ball players are not dumb. And

to have good men and a good team
would reflect highly upon the
school as an outstanding institu-
tion.”
e ® fd e

A note of commendation to Bill
Carrell, Ed Speir, and Basil Sharp
for their outstanding showing as
the swimming’ team opened its
1954-55 season with a victory over
Eastern Carolina, Friday. Sharp

CAT SQUADS OPEN
IN MAT AND SWIM
MEETS THIS WEEK

BY CHARLES McGIRT

Both the Wildcat wrestling and
swimming teams began this season
with great fury and a strong de-
termination to win. The wrestlers
won one of a four-way meet while
the swimmers defeated their foe

placed first in the diving, Carreli |>Y @ large margin.

placed first in both the individual

Coach Charles Parker's wrestling

Eligibility Rules Stated:

Some Changes Proposed

(The inter-fraternity eligibility rules have been the sub-
ject of wide-spread discussion in the past few weeks, and in
keeping with its “keep the students informed” policy, The
Davidsonian is publishing the essential parts of the rules
governing eligibility.)

Davidson’s Inter-fraternity Athletic system is governed
by the By-Laws and rules set up each year by sports managers
of the fraternities. There are rules which some students think

medley and 220 yard freestyle, and|team met VMI, Marshal] College,
Speir took two firsts in the 50 and | and Auburn in Lexington, Virginia,
100 yard freestyle races. It appears | Friday night. Davidson beat, Mar-
that this year’s swimming team | shall 21-11. VMI left the ’Cats with
is potentially the best on the cam-!a 24-8 defeat, while Auburn took
pus in several years. Much of this|a mat victory of 22-8. Outstanding
victory may be accounted to Coach| for Davidson was Captain John
Carroll Hambright, who, in the| Buxton who won all three of the
words of one swimmer, “is a hard | first places in the 157-pound class.
driver and diligent worker.” It is|The next meet will be held Satur.
the idea of this reporter that more|day night in Greensboro against
support would also help the swim-| UNC. Sonny Kincey will be unable
ming team’s efforts. For those of}to make the trip but the other
you who have never seen a swim-| eight members will endeavor to
ming meet, it can be most exciting.| stop Carolina. They are: Henry

“ses © 8 Griffen, Bill Warlick, Ritzel Sni-
Congratulations to Hobby Cobb| der, John Buxton, Henry Faison,

(Continued On Page Four) (Continued On Page Feur)

the managers could improve,

and student suggestions are

called for in these cases. For any that you disagree with or

heartily approve of, the managers
will be glad to hear suggestions
(not complaints without solutions,
though). The rules are printed be-
low.

(1) A student who has received
the varsity award at Davidson Col-
lege or elsewhere, or earned five
points or more, shall not be eligi-
ble to compete in that particular
sport.

(2) A student who has received
a Freshman Numeral at Davidson
or elsewhere may not compete on
a team in that particular sport un-
til after one school year of non-par-
ticipation in that intramural sport.

(3) A student who has received
a varsity award in cross-country
shall be ineligible for track.

(4) Freshmen Cross-Country nu-
meral men are not allowed to par-
ticipate in running events in the
intramural track meet.

(5) No individual who reports for
a freshman or varsity sport’s squad
through a period of twenty calen-
dar days of that activity may par-
ticipate in intramural activities
during the dates applying to that
sport, should he drop from the
squad on his own volition. The in-
dividual becomes immediately in-
eligible for the intramural activi-
ty in progress through the estab-
lished dates for the sport he is af-
filiated with after participation in
any regularly scheduled contest re-
gardless of whether he drops from
the squad on his own volition or is
cut from the squad by the coach.

(6) A team shall forfeit any con-
test in which it uses an ineligible
player and the ineligible man shall
be barred for further competition
in that sport for that season.

(1) Out for an intercollegiate
sport: Any student, varsity or

(Continued On Back Page)

Phi Delis Winners
In Greek Wrestling

Though laying claim to only one
individual championship, the Phi
Delts won the Inter-fraternity
Wrestling crown last Wednesday
night. The tournament was held in
Johnston Gymnasium on Tuesday
and Wednesday nights, with the
finals being held on Wednesday.

The Phi Delts had one cham-
pion, Bill Warlick in the 130-
pound class, but they had 14 falls
to their credit, and this matched
with their showing in the consola-
tion bracket was enough to win.
The winners had a total of 32
points to their credit, three above
the second-place SAEs. The run-
hers-up had three champions,
while the rest of the crowns were
divided among other. entries.

In the team scoring, the tally
went as follows: Phi Delts-32,
SAEs-29, Phi Gams-24, Betas and
Kappa Sigs-22 (tie), Sigma Chis-19,
SPEs-14, ATOs-8, Pikas-3, Pi Kapps-
2, and KAs-0.

Individual finishing by weight
classes is given below with the
first four men in each division be-
ing named. In the 191-pound class,
there was a double forfeit in the
consolation bracket, therefore
there were no third and fourth
places awarded. *

123—Keiter (ATO), Allen (Phi
Gam), Strand (Phi Delt), Spears
(Pika).

130—Warlick (Phi Delt),
(Beta), Hill (Pi Kapp),
(SAE).

137—Robinson (SAE), Hoagland
(Sigma Chi), Montgomery (Phi

(Continued On Page Four)

Irvin
Bright

FINET
FLAVOR!

Winston tastes good—
like a cigarette should!

@ Now there's a filter smoke
college men and women can really
enjoy! It’s Winston, the new,
king-size, filter cigarette with real
flavor—full, rich, tobacco flavor!

You're bound to enjoy Winston’s
finer flavor. And you're sure to
appreciate Winston’s finer filter.
This exclusive filter is unique,
different, truly superior! It works
so effectively —yet doesn’t “thin”
the taste. Winstons are king-

size for extra filtering action.
Easy-drawing, too—there’s no _
effort to puff! ot

Try a pack of Winstons—the filter
cigarette that brings favor back
to filter smoking!

Select a pair of argyles,
a sweater, or a pair of
imported flannels from
our many colors.

Save That Vacation Time For Livin’ It Up
Do Your Xmas Shopping Before You Go Home

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.

“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” WINSTON ... the easy-drawing filter cigarette! ~ ¥

AR. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO,, WINSTON-BALEM, N. C.

NEXT DOOR TO BANK

DAVIDSON, N. C.
