The averages that
were mentioned in this
column last week,
those of the athletic
teams, the over-all fra-
ternity average, and
the student body aver-
s age, have been re-
released for publica:
tion. It seems that they
were made available
to the Davidsonian
last fall, but they were
never published in full.
So that there can be
' no doubt as to the vali-

= dity of the statement
By BUNNY PERKINSON that the athletic teams
had a higher average during the school year 1953-54 than the
entire student body and the eleven social fraternities on cam-
pus, it has been decided that these averages should now be
printed. These grades are computed each June after the com-
pletion of the school year, and the 1953-54 averages were
chosen because they were the most recent and because many
of the boys whose grades are included in these averages are
still in college. The following are what was compiled last
June:

Baseball Team Average. _-. 1.766
Track Team Average _.. 1.747
Basketball Team Average 1.680
Football Team Average . 1.658
All Student Average .---- 1.583
All Fraternity Average —— 1.573

The above are the official averages released by the Reg-
istrar’s Office, and your editor unofficially computed the over-
all average of the athletic teams and found it to be 1.717,
which is higher than all classes but the Senior Class average of
1.972 and above all but the two highest fraternities. These
figures readily show that the athletic teams as a whole rank
higher scholastically than a large majority of the student body,
which is an indication of the caliber of the men who represent
Davidson on the athletic fields.

TOMMY PETERS AWARD

At this time each year, in the Honors Day conducted in
chapel, the Tommy Peters athletic trophy is presented to that
athlete who best exemplifies the qualities that Tommy Peters
himself displayed in his endeavors on Davidson teams. This
year’s award, presented yesterday in chapel, went to Bill
Rowland, one of the most versatile athletes to perform here in

NEARS FINISH

GREEK COMPETITION

Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LURK UBI CRTA LIBERTAS

CAT LINKSTERS

DEFEAT WOFFORD

po

FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1955

PAGE THREE

Tracksters Face W. & iL. Here Today

Cat Nine On Road For | tennis Toumey
Two Games At Citadel |": S"-’

Fresh from a two-game split with the Wofford nine, the
hot Wildcat baseballers face The Citadel this weekend and
Furman next Tuesday in conference tilts.

The first of a two-game series with the strong Wofford
Club last Friday saw the Wildcats drop a tough decision, 6-4.

Ish Bennett started on the mound
and was relieved by Dick Belton,
but the Cats just couldn't get up
enough steam. However, sweet re-
venge was gained last Tuesday in
the return game played at Wofford,
as Davidson took a ten-inning
thriller, 8-7. Led by the dependable
Johnny Smith, who went the dis-
tance, and an exceptional display
of power at the plate, the Cats
handed Wofford one of the two
defeats it has suffered this spring,
as Ollie Harris and Bill Rowland
banged out homers. The entire
team had a very good day with the
bat, as Buzzy Hope, now hitting at
a 500 clip, collected four for five,
Rowland three for five, Harris two
for four, and Billy Morris and Don
McRee two for five.

At Charleston today and tomor-
row, the Cats encounter the Bull-
dogs from The Citade! in two con-
ference games. The probable start-
ing pitcher for this afternoon's
game will be Bennett, while tomor-
row’s game will most likely see
Johnny Smith again on the hill,
with Dick Belton ready for relief
work in either game. An _ indica-
tion of the strength of the Bull-

some time. The honor attached to this award cannot be over-| dogs is the fact that they have

emphasized, and its importance was well expressed in an
article in this column written by Jim Holshouser in the April
23, 1954, issue of the Davidsonian. He said in part,

This is one award at Davidson which represents something
beyond achievement in the ordinary sense of the word. Tom-
my Peters came to Davidson in 1941. He was the outstanding
freshman athlete of that year, and in 1942, he moved up into
varsity competition. In his first year of varsity competition at
Davidson, he won four letters. He was a first-line end in foot-
pall, and he played one of the starting infield positions for
the diamond crew. But basketball was where Peters really
shone. In the Southern Conference tournament of 1943, Tommy
led the Davidson team as far as the semi-final round, and
Davidson lost in an overtime. Tommy was seletced as the
most popular player in the tournament and was a unanimous
choice for the All-Conference team.

But Tommy Peters was more than just an extraordinary
athlete. He played the game hard, but he also played it fair.
He was what Davidson students today often scoff at—'‘A David-
son gentleman.” He truly represented the “Davidson Spirit.”

In 1943, Tommy Peters, like many other Davidsonians,
went into the Armed Services. And when the war was over,
he was one of those who didn’t return. He might have been
the greatest Davidson athlete of all time...

GO THINCLADS !

Going into today’s meet with W&L, Coach Whittle’s track-
men boast an undefeated record, being the only team on cam-
pus at present with such laurels. If the thinclad men can come
through with victories today and next Saturday against State,
they will be the first Davidson team to come through regular
season play undefeated in way yonder many years. Also, vic-
tories in these two meets would label the Cats as the team
most likely to overcome V.M.I. in the Conference Meet to be
held May 13-14 at Williamsburg, Virginia. No doubt Davidson
athletics could use such a shot in the arm as a Southern Con-
ference track championship would afford.

a LY

THE CONNOISSEUR

A Place of fine Foods for any taste
in Eating — Specializing in Steak,
Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.

SPECIAL MENU

THURSDAYS — FRIDAYS — SATURDAYS
ALL THE FISH OR CHICKEN YOU CAN EAT

$1.50 mctuding Tox

CHILDREN ACCOMPANIED BY THEIR PARENTS
55c, Tax included

Fried Chicken — French Fries — Slew
Hot Rolls — Iced Tea or Coffee
Fish — French Fries — Slaw —Hush Puppies
leed Tea or Coffee

Mooresville, N. C.

Phone 3-286!

ee

twice been beaten by Wofford.

Next Tuesday afternoon, May 3,
the home team continues confer-
ence competition in a double-
header here with Furman, the first
game being scheduled for 1:30.
Pitching chores for the contests
have not been definitely decided,
but the starters will probably be
Smith and Bennett again.

Coach Chuck Clements, who has
done a fine job with his boys this
year, has. very high praise for his
squad, which now has an 83
record, excluding exhibitions. In
answer to a question concerning his
appraisal of the team, Coach Cle-
ments said, “The team this year
has wonderful spirit and determina-
tion, as the records have shown.
Our pitching has been holding up
very well, and our hitting has also
been very good, with six men hit-
ting above the .300 mark. Our de-
fense is very good, and I am very
well pleased with the showing of
the entire team.”

Wildcat

Tennis Team Downs
State and Furman

The Davidson College tennis
team has now posted a record of
twelve wins and six defeats, as a
result of action this week. The
hetters from North Carolina State
were victims number twelve, as
they were walloped by the local
netters, 9:0, in a match held at
Raleigh. Following the State
match, the local team met one of
the strongest teams in the. country,
as they were defeated by North
Carolina, 8-1. The Chapel Hill net-
ters overpowered their former
Southern Conference opponents,
with the loss of only two sets and
one match. Davidson's only point
against the Atlantic Coast Confer-
ence school was a hard fought 1-6,
6-1, 6-2 victory by Corky Clark and
Lacy Kessler over Carolinas No. 1
doubles team of Pete Green and
Bobby Payne.

Summary—Davidson vs. N. C.
State: Keesler defeated Greenberg,
6-4, 6-1; Clark defeated Cashion,
6-3, 3-6, 6-4; Snead defeated Cross,
6-4, 6-4; Makepeace defeated
Frantz, 6-2, 6-0; Thorpe defeated
Reichard, 6-3, 6-3; Robinson de-
feated Brinkley, 2-6, 6-4, 6-2; Kees-
ler and Clark defeated Greenberg
and Cashion, 6-1, 6-2; Snead and
Robinson defeated Frantz and
Reichard, 7-5, 6-4; Makepeace and
Thorpe defeated Cross and Brink-
ley. :

Summary—Davidson vs. North
Carolina: Brown (C) defeated Kees-
ler, 6-4, 6-4; Payne (C) defeated
Clark, 6-2, 86; Bradford (C) de-
feated Sneed, 6-0, 6-1; Green (C)
defeated Makepeace, 6-0, 7-5;
Kerdasha (C) defeated Thorpe, 6-0.
86; Thompson (C) defeated Robin.
son, 6-2, 6-1: Keesler and Clark
(@) defeated Payne and Green,
1-6, 6-2, 6-1; Browne and Bradford
(C) defeated Sneed and Make-
peace, 6-0, 6-2; Thompson and Ker-
dasha (C) defeated Thorpe and
Robinson, 6-0, 6-2.

(Continued on Page Four)

Three of the four semi-finalists
in the interfraternity tennis tourna-
ment have been determined. The
Phi Delts’ favored James Mont-
gomery gained one of the positions
by virtue of wins over Price and
Conarroe; the latter match went
6-2, 62. Montgomery will play the
SAEs’ Rawson, who also has two
victories, one from Mason (6-3,
6-3) and the other from Sharp (6-3,
6-1). Bobby Key, a Phi Gam, is the
third semi-finalist; he has thus. far
defeated three men—Taylor (6-2,
8-6), Ingram (6-3, 7-9, 6-3), and
Robinson (6-0, 6-0). Key will next
play the winner of the Brown.
Echols match. On Wednesday,
Buddy Brown, Phi Delt, and Buddy
Echols, SAE, were able to play
only two sets, which they split.
Since both the Phis and the SAEs
have already placed one, that
match will determine which frater-
nify will have both of its repre-
sentatives in the semi-finals. The
remaining four matches of the
tournament are due to be finished
this week.

With the softball tournament go-
ing into the ninth of its eleven
rounds, the top seeded SPEs are
in the number one position;
these champions of last year have
five victories against a single loss.
The ATOs are in second place with
a five won-two lost record. The
three leaders in the over-all inter-
fraternity competition are not
among the top-ranking softballers;
the Kappa Sigs and Phi Delts are
both in fifth place while the SAEs
are one notch below that.

In this week's action, the SPEs
retained their league lead by down-
ing the Kappa Sigs and Phi Gams.
The second place ATOs won from
the SAEs and KAs, but suffered
defeat from the Pikas. The Sigma
Chis had three consecutive wins;
they triumphed over the Betas,
Pi Kapps, and Campus Club. The
Phi Gams beat both the Phi Delts
and the Betas, while the Kappa
Sigs also won from two, the Betas
and Campus Club. The Phi Delts
split with the SAEs and Pikas,
dropping the former and winning
the latter.

At the present rate of five games
a day, the tournament should be
finished next week, with the high-
fight of the activities being the
game between the SPEs and the
Phi Delts.

Of The Week Is Koonce

When our thoughts turn to track on the Davidson scene, we readily think of Phil
Koonce. Hailing from Tarboro, N. C., Phil is a member of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity, and
in addition to being an outstanding athlete, is vice-president of the junior class and the new-
ly elected president of the Inter-Fraternity Council.

Koonce, who never participated
in track before coming to David-
son, made an impression in a big
way and in a hurry as soon as he
got his frosh feet implanted on
the cinders. Though inexperienced,
he managed to become runner-up
in total points scored for the Da.
vidson thinclads. He has developed
superb ability in the running of
the 220-yard dash, the 100-yard
dash, and the broad jump. Occa-
sionally he participates in the mile
relay.

Already a two-letter man, Koonce
has paced the Davidson thinclads
to numerous victories. Last year
he was the team’s high scorer, and
his record for this season is equal-
ly impressive. Thus far Phil has
chalked up 28% points against
Mercer and Richmond in a tri-
angular meet, 15 points against
Furman, 16% points against Clem-
son, and 15 points against The
Citadel. His consistency in every
meet is indicated by an impressive

average of better than 15 points| ™ -

per meet.

Koonce is an inspirational ex-
ample of how an_ inexperienced
athlete can develop his talents. His
never ceasing determination and
his strong competitive spirit have
enabled him to scorch the cinders

and defeat some of the best track- ‘
men in the South.

L

KOONCE GETS AWAY!

Tr

berets,

Wildcats Win Over Citadel By Forty
Point Margin; Favored Over W.&L.

By CHARLES HELMS

Davidson's track team, led by Phil Koonce, mopped up with the Bulldogs of The Cita-
del last Friday afternoon by a score of 87 2-3 to 47 1-3. The Cats won first place in 11 out
of 15 events in this decisive victory. Koonce,who took three first places, was again high
point man for the Wildcats with 15 points. Fischl led the losers with 13 points.

Wildcat Linksters
Boast 6-2 Record

Davidson's golf team has been
working hard for the past few
weeks, relatively unnoticed, in prep-
aration for the coming Southern
Conference Tournament at Dan.
ville Country Club on the sixth of
May. The Cats, who will be seek-
ing their second straight title, will
bank on Al Gaither, Mickey Can-
non, Skipper Hall, George Scott,
Carl Swofford and Martin Foil to
again bring home the champion-
ship. The tournaments will be a
36-hole medal affair with each
team being allowed six entrants.
The team score will be compiled

(Continued on Page Four)

Pete Ashcraft turned in his
usual good performance, winning
the one mile run in the time of
4:46. Floyd Feeney came -in first
in the two-mile run in the time of
10:51.3, while Snyder Garrison
took the 880-yard run with a time
of 2:07.4. Davidson's relay team of
Mallory, Garrison, Ashcraft, and
Mitchner won in the mile relay in
3:36 to make a clean sweep in the
distance events.

The 100-yard and  220-yard
dashes went to Phil Koonce in
times of :10.1 and :22.3, respective-
ly. Roswell. Mallory came through
in the 440-yard dash in :53.

Moving over to field events, Bill
Gramley won first in the shotput
with a toss of 43 feet 8'4 inches
and in the discus with a throw of
138 feet 1 inch. Koonce jumped 21
feet 11%) inches to win in the

College Amokens AGN...
WINSTON

brings flavor back to filter smoking!

WHAT DO
YOU THINK?

WINSTON tastes good—

itke a cigarette should!

® No wonder Winston's winning so many
friends so fast! College smokers found
flavor in a filter cigarette when they found
Winston. It’s got real tobacco flavor!

Along with finer flavor, Winston also
brings you a finer filter. The exclusive
Winston filter works so effectively, yet
doesn’t “thin” the taste or flatten the flavor.

the easy-drawing 4ltor ciqanette!

& J. ALVHOL OC TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-BALEM, H.C.

broad jump. Harley Smith's dis-
tance of 163 feet % inch was
enough for first in the javelin.

First places for The Citadel in-
cluded: Fisch! in the 120-yard high
hurdles in :16.1 and the 220-yard
low hurdles in :24.4; Lester in the
high jump with 6 feet 1 inch, and
Martin in the pole vault with 11
feet.

Coach Whittle’s men have now
beaten Richmond, Mercer, Furman,
Clemson and The Citadel, and
went into today’s meet with Wash-
ington and Lee with a 5-0 record.
Coach Whittle said before the track
meet this afternoon that he expects
particularly stiff competition in
the hurdles and distance events.
The meet with N. C. State on May
7 is the only one left on the Wild-
cats’ schedule.

ae
