“THE DOLE ERA”

Coach Bill Dole came to Davidson in 1952, bringing with
him a string of successful coaching assignments which every-
one said would die at Davidson. The 1926 Davidson team won
the state championship, and since that time— over 25 years
ago— Davidson had claimed only five winning seasons when
Bill Dole took the reigns of Davidson's football fortunes. Wild-
cat followers, alumni and students alike, had known few sea-
sons when “moral victories” were not the rule rather than
the exception. Davidson teams were widely-known for hustle,
serap, and fight, but winning seasons were few and far be-
tween. You freshmen are arriving at Davidson as the “Dole
Era” is getting into full swing. In just three seasons, Dole has
brought winning football to Davidson, and Wildcat followers
are convinced that his winning record will not be ruined here.

Last year’s team was the “winningest” Davidson team
since 1933, winning six and dropping only three. The 1954
record has been bettered by only 10 teams since Davidson

began football back in 1896, and this season will find the Wild-| ©

cats shooting for the 7-2-1 mark set by that 1926 championship
club. The road will not be easy, and Coach Dole is far from
optimistic. Nevertheless, the signs point to another winning
season, and for win-starved Wildcat followers, this should be

welcomed with open arms.

LAST YEAR’S RECORD

For you freshmen who didn’t follow the Wildcat football
campaign last year with eagle eyes, here’s a brief summary of
what happened to make Davidson men no longer ashamed
to glance at the Sunday sports pages. The Cats opened against
rough V. M. I. in a conference scrap, and Dyke Little tossed
the Red and Black to a 19-0 win. It was the first time since
1948 that Davidson had won an opening game, and a few eye-
brows were slightly raised. The next Saturday saw the Wild-
cats squeak by Stetson, 19-13, as the Hatters almost removed
a 19-0 deflict in a last-half spurt. The Davidson crew traveled
to The Citadel and downed the Bulldogs, 13-0, for their third

win.

A left-handed quarterback by the name of Harry Hamil-
ton proved to be too much for the Cats as a_fired-up PC crew
thrilled their homecoming crowd with a 10-7 upset, handing
Davidson its first loss. This year’s squad has not forgotten,
and the Presbyterian game is probably the one the Cats would
rather win than any other.

After a 19-7 loss to Furman, the Red and Black got back
on the winning track with a tremendous 51-6 win over West
Virginia Tech in the first Homecoming win in fourteen years.

All-State half-back Jim Thacker came into his own in that
one with four touchdowns. It was hard to leave the field seeing
the scoreboard register 51 points on the Davidson side, and it
marked the first time since 1946 that a Cat club had scored
more than 7 touchdowns. The Davidson squad moved past
Catawba, 32-12, and then met Wofford in what turned out to
be a real thriller. The big Terrier line proved very rough, and
after twice failing to score from within the ten yard line.
Coach Dole called on Bob Talbert to try a field goal,‘‘ The Toe”
booted the ball through the uprights, and Davidson held on for

a 3-0 win.
The closing contest against Elon found the Wildcats try-

ing for a 7-2 record—one that hadn’t been bettered since 1905
—but the Christians upset the Red and Black, and the dream

went out the window. Nevertheless, it was a good season, and| ~~

Davidson fans were pleased.

FRESHMEN — YOUR JOB
The Wildcats take the field against Catawba in Charlotte

next Friday night, opening the new season. Davidson plays}

the next three games here on the campus and has one other

home game. With a team like we're going to field this season, | |
we ought to be backing them every inch of the way, and that’s} |

where most of you freshmen can do your part. The Freshmen

Regulations say you're supposed to attend all home games, but
you should have a better reason than that to come to the}

games. You've got a team out there that’s representing your|
school, and you ought to let them know all the time that you’re

them to the limit. This Davidson Spirit that has be-
come famous in these parts extends. from the field to the

and the students have a job, too. That team on the}

field has a good chance of racking up the best record in David-
son history, and let’s show them we think they can do it. You
won't have any difficulty in getting a ride into Charlotte next
Friday night, so start the season off right by backing the Cats
against Catawba.

SCOTT RELEASES
FALL SCHEDULES

ALENRDA LURK OBI

ORTA LIBERTAS

TO BACK CATS

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1955

The 1955 edition of the David-
son Wildcats will get its first test
next Friday night when the Dole-
men journey to Charlotte to meet
the Catawba Indians. The scrap will
be held in Memorial Stadium and
will be the Wildcats’ only appear-
ance in Charlotte this season.

The Wildeats plan to be ready
for Catawba next Friday night,
and remembering the first-half
seare the Indians gave them last
year, they'll be out to win from
the opening whistle. Catawba's '54
club marched over a sluggish Da-
vidson squad for two touchdowns
last season and led, 12-0, before

the Wildcats woke up and started
to move. Behind at the half, 12-7,
the Cats poured it on in the last
half to win by a 32-12 margin, but

Coach Bill Dole.

THE CONNOISSEUR
A Place of fine Foods for any taste
eet wd Ges Ween. ’
SPECIAL MENU
THURSDAYS — FRIDAYS — SATURDAYS
ALL THE FISH OR CHICKEN YOU CAN EAT

$1.50 inctoding tax

CHILDREN ACCOMPANIED BY THEIR PARENTS
55e, Tax Included
Fried Chicken — French Fries — Slaw
Hot Rolls — iced Tea or Coffee
Fish — French Fries — Slaw —Hush Puppies
feed Tea or Coffee

Mooresville, N. C.

THE 1955 DAVIDSON WILDCATS

they haven't forgotten that first
half and will try to make sure it
doesn’t ‘happen again.

Head Coach Bill Dole has been
cautious about this year’s squad,
warning overly optimistic follow:
ers that it will be hard to equal
last year’s mark of six wins and
three losses. The schedule has
been stepped up a notch, and the
Wildcats will face two of the
Southern Conference's top clubs in
late-season engagements. David-
son plays Richmond on November
5, in what Dole figures to be the
toughest contest of the season, and
the Wildeats close out the season
on November 19 against Furman

Presbyterian College is once
again on the schedule, and the Cat

gridders will be out to revenge the

Harold Davis and Harley Smith talk things over with Head

"55 Version

Harley Smith and Harold Davis have been elected as the

of Wildcats

leaders of Davidson's 1955 football squad, with Smith serving
as the Captain of the team and Davis backing him as Alternate

| graduation day comes next June,

Captain. The two veteran gridders were elected by the foot-
ball team last spring, and both served in their new positions
against the Davidson Alumni team at the end of spring practice.

Both boys are seniors in their
last year of eligibility, and when

of the starting guards.

The Wildcat captain, Harley
Smith, transferred to Davidson in
1952 from the University of Ala-
bama, and the Florida hustler first
donned the pads in 1953, waiting
out two semesters before he be-
came eligible. Since then, he has
been a standout in the Davidson
backfield. Last spring’s practice

(Continued on Page Four)

they'll receive their diplomas. Har-
ley was a starter at the halfback
slot last year, afd Harold was in
a starting role at tackle. This sea-
son finds both at new positions,
bolstering the Davidson lineup
where it is needed. Smith will be
the No. 1 fullback for Coach Bill

’s squad, while Davis is one

10-7 upset by the Blue Hose last
year which broke a three-game win-
ning streak. For the first time in
several seasons, the game will not
be a Homecoming contest for one
of the two schools. Instead, David-
son officials have scheduled Wash-
ington and Lee, back on the sched-
ule after a year’s absence, as the
Wildcats’ Homecoming opponent.

At the present time, fifty-five
gridders make up the Davidson
practice squad, and included in
that number are such returning
backfield standouts as Dyke Little,
ace quarterback, Bill Rowland, Don
McRee, Dick Belton, Don Comer,
Don Campbell, Ken Conger, and
Harley Smith. The backfield is
probably the stronger part of the

In an interview this wee

k, Dr. Seott, new Director of

Physical Education and Athletics, disclosed plans for the
physical education program this year. One day of the three
allotted classes will be given over to swimming. On the other
two days members of the different classes in the student, body

Cross-Country Card

(Shows Maryville As

First Cat Opposition

Coach Pete Whittle’s Wildcat
Harriers will begin workout in the
next few days to meet what will
promise to be another successful
season for the veteran cross coun:
try and track mentor. Only three
lettermen are returning this year

>} along with a few near lettermen,
which will leave several berths on
the team wide open for competitive

attainment. Twelve men can make

will engage in the following: as-
signed sports within the quarter
system. Freshmen will take soccer,
wrestling, basketball, and tennis.
Sophomores will engage in volley-
ball, baseball, softball, and golf.
Juniors and Seniors will have some
choice in selection of their athletic
program, although basketball will
be one of the prominently stressed
courses offered on the day opposite
swimming. It is the hope and de-
sire of Dr. Scott in preparing this
program that all participating will
obtain a knowledge of and interest
in the major sports and continue
them after college while develop-
ing physically sound bodies.

New AA Test To Be Given

All freshmen. will be required
to take the Athletie Ability Test

during the first week of school.

the team this year instead of eight | This will probably be given during

(Continued on Page Four)

higher accomplishments on the

Scene as has been the custom in previous |
seasons. Freshmen are eligible for |

| the team and are strongly en
Bs }couraged to come out for prac-

{tice when the opening practice is

Indians }announced. The top spots on the
F varsity are wide open to the fastest
runners. This year Davidson will

depth available. |have the Southern Conference as |

Up in the forward wall, things well as a fine record to uphold.

look bright as far as the No. 1 line | After last year’s fine season, Da-

is concerned, but lack of depth js| Vidson will be gunning for even|

track.

The schedule will be:

Oct. 7

| Oct. 13
| Oct. 29

Oct. 21
Nov. 7

| Nov. 14

Nov. 21

Maryville, home.
Richmond, Richmond, Va.
W&L, VMI, Lexington, Va.
W.M., N.C. State, home.
State Meet, Raleigh, N.C.
AAU Meet, Raleigh, N.C.
Southern Conf., home.

more noticeable than last year.)

Harold Davis and Tom Owen re-

team with plenty of speed and

turn at the guard positions, and|
juniors Lyle Llewellyn and Tom}
Lee will be back at the tackles. |
Bill Price, Tal Broughton, and Bo
Abernathy are back and scrapping |
for the starting spot at center, and
the depth here is at least Satis-
factory.

At the ends, veterans Tom New-
ton, Bill Gramley and Jim Patter- |
son leave little to be desired, and
if another top-flight flanker can)
be found Dole will have few wor-|
ries about that position.

Wildkitten gridders, and the

season against the Baby Apps from Appalachian State
i|here on September 22. The five-

game card includes another con-
test with Appalachian, a serap
with Lees-McRae Junior College,
and two prep games. Baylor Prep
and Gordon Military will furnish
the opposition in the latter two.
The schedule features only one
home game—the opener against
Appalachian.

Fasul has no squad at the present
‘time, but the team will undoubted-
ly be made up of freshmen and a
few upperclassmen who will be
sent down for needed experience.
The squad roster will not be ready
until the coaches have more con-
tact and scrimmage work with the
22 freshmen who are already out
for the squad and with new can-
didates who will join when school
opens.

The schedule is shown below:

Sept.22 Appalachian, home.

Oct. 8 Lees-McRae, away.

Oct. 13 Appalachian, away

Oct. 22 Baylor Prep, away.

Oct. 28 Gordon Mil., away.

Coach Jim Fasul has released the 1955 schedule for his

Davidson JV's will open the |

Freshmen—Don’t forget the
cake race next Thursday after-”
noon at 4 o'clock. You'll have
an opportunity to win one of
the fifty home-made cakes to
be given as prizes!

Drink
‘M
O
O
R’

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery, Inc.

118 West Trade Street

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

} 4

DAVI
STUD

—— FROM OUR

FREE
| PREE

Open to

Welcome

CLOTHING WARDROBE
Just Register om our Third Floor..

“LITTLE

172 Page Encyclopedia of Sports
NO MAIL ORDERS, PLEASE!

DSON
ENTS

BACK-TO-SCHOOL

High School and College Men

VARSITY-TOWN
BLUE BOOK”

SUITS by College Hall,

While on our third floor be sure to see the new
fall fashions with the ‘Ivy Look.”

Varsity-Town and Joseph

and Feiss 52.50 to 67.50
SLACKS ........ 14.95 to 20.00
SHIRTS by Manhattan, Wilson Bros. and

Holbrook __ 5.00
San CcoarTs _.............., SO te

126 S. Tryon — Charlotte

