with the spring variety of the sport working the boys just as
hard as in the fall. Coach Bill Dole has welcomed his gridders
back after a two-month lay-off, and the Cat mentor has already
got the boys hitting hard in scrimmages. With members of
last season’s varsity and junior varsity squads now working as
one unit, Dole has a large turnout for the spring work.

The spring practice sessions will come to an end on
March 5. At that time, Davidson students and fans will have
a treat in store for them on Richardson Field. The Varsity
will meet an all-star team of alumni from Davidson’s 1946-49
teams. The alumni team will be coached by Bill Story, David-
son coach in the years just following World War IL Story
quit the coaching profession to accept a position in the
Norfolk, Virginia schools. Many of Story’s proteges will return
to the campus and will once again wear the pads on Richard-
son Field. Some of the names will be familiar to students—
like Auburn Lambeth, all-time great with the best passing
record ever made by a Davidson player; Buddy Cheek, top-
flight end who was also a third-team All-American in basket-
ball, to name only a couple.

The “Old Timers,” as the alumni team has chosen to be
called, will probably run primarily from the single wing,
since that is the formation Story used and was the one which
all the players learned while in school. The Davidson varsity
will probably use many of the basic plays which the Cats used
last season, with a few new tricks thrown in.

It will be a contest of experience versus youth. The
alumni team will have less than a week to practice, and most
of them will not be in the shape that college players are, but
the grads will have the edge in experience and know-how. It
will be interesting to see the outcome.

CAN FLOYD BE STOPPED?

Two years ago, Furman’s Paladins invaded the Davidson
campus, bringing the nation’s top one-two punch. Frank
Selvy and Neil Gordon were pacing the Furman attack, and
Davidson's chances of winning looked pretty slim. Yet, when
the game was over, the scoreboard showed the Cats ahead by
a slim, three-point margin. The Davidson team, though letting
Selvy put in 85 big points, had held Gordon to only nine.
Coach Danny Miller had coached the big center at Wingate in
and when the Paladins took the court,

his pre-Furman days,
4 defense which stopped Gordon

Miller’s boys threw up a zone

cold. .
This season, another of Miller’s former pupils leads the

Furman crew into Johnston Gymnasium—Darrel Floyd, the
nation’s leading scorer. If the Wildcats can stop him, the
chances of taking another conference win will be pretty good.
Or will the strategy be to stop the others at the expense of let-
ting Floyd score a lot, but not enough to top the Davidson
total? Only time will tell, but spectators will have an interest-
ing evening in store for them when the two clubs meet next

Thursday night.

FOOTBALL’S HERE AGAIN
Football practice at Davidson got underway this week,

FOOTBALL TEAM
BEGINS SPRING

WORKOUT SESSIONS

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1955

Sigma

ALERDA LURK UB)

Only Two Teams Remain Undefeated

In Fraternity

Basketball Action

After five nights of action the standings in the interfraternity basketball competition are

beginning to take shape. Both the Sigma Chis and the Kappa Sigs have perfect records. The

former has four wins and no losses while the latter has three wins and no losses up to Thurs-
day. Three teams—Phi Delts, Pikas, and Phi Gams—are tied for third place, each having two
wins to one loss. Fourth place is shared by the SAEs and the SPEs with two wins and two

WILDCAT TANKERS
SPLASH AGAINST
WOFFORD MONDAY

Davidson’s aquatic team returns
to action next Tuesday, Feb. 8,
after the examination schedule
break. Wofford College will
furnish the opposition here at 3:30.

Since Wofford is only in its
second year of competition, they
have not yet developed a strong
team. However, a good sprinter
and a good distance man will offer
tough individual competition.

The Wildcats, who have been
strong all season, are working
harder now than at any time in the
past couple of years. According to
Coach Hambright, the tankmen
should hit their peak in some of
the tougher meets in the future.
Alex Shepherd has improved his
time tremendously and stands as
the most improved member.

On January 17, Davidson scored
an easy victory over South Caro-
lina, 58-26. In the process the
Cats picked up six out of ten first
places. The results, by event, were
as follows:

300-yard medley relay—David-
son — (Ormond, Edwards, and
Query) 3:28.2.

220-yard freestyle—1i. Carrell,
D.C., 2. Shepherd, D.C., 3. Turner,
S.C, 2:35.

60-yard freestyle — 1. Rivers,
D.C., 2. Spier, D.C., 3. Waite, S.C.—
28.3. .

160-yerd individual medley—1.
Beranski, S.C., 2. Carrell, D.C., 3.
Aber, S.C.—1:50.4.

(Continued From Page Three)

THE DAVIDSON STUDENTS PICK ‘EM

Bill McNair is
right on 11 of 15 predictions,
trary to an earlier statement, The
five free passes

to the local theatre. McNair will be the first winner to receive this

the winner of last week’s Devidsonian “pick ’em” contest. Bill guessed
winning one more than Dick Adams and Tom Taylor. Con-
Davidsonien is now awarding the winner of the contest

prize,

and the award will continue throughout the basketball season.

Below are the students’

predictions for winners of games from February 4 through

February 10.
Tem Dick Charlie Blake Ralph
Brewer Neale Rebinsen Brinkerheff Bassett
Carolina over Duke North Carolina | North Carolina | North Carolina Duke
vorviead over William and Mary Will. & Mary [| Maryland Maryland Maryland
Auburn over Georgia Tech Ga. Tech. Auburn Ga. Tech. Ga. Tech.
N. C. State over Virginia State State State State
George Washington over Maryland Geo. Wash. Geo. Wash. Geo. Wash. Geo. Wash
William and Mary over N. C. State State State State State
Richmond over V.P.1 Richmond Richmond Richmond Richmond
Duquesne over Villanova Villanova Duquesne Duquesne Villanova
Duke over West Virginia Duke D Duke Duke
Weke Forest over Clemson Wake Forest Wake Forest Wake Forest | Clemson
Minnesota over Ohio State Ohio State Minnesota Minnesota Ohio State
Wake Forest over Duke Duke Duke Wake Forest Duke
Maryland over Virginia Virginia Maryland Maryland Maryland
Alsbama over Vanderbilt Vandy Alabama Alabama
William and Mary over VPI Will. & Mary Will, & Mary |[Will.& Mary |[V.P.L

RENTALS

FOR MIDWINTERS
See
Wilson-Wright's Inc.

“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Next te Bank Davideon, 0. C.

NO STRIKE—L&T’S HOPE
Andy: She got her teeth from
the dentist, her transformation
from the beauty parlor, her eye-
lashes from the g store, and
her figure from the U. S. Rubber

pany.
Kingfish: Yeah. Between now
and the wedding, a strike in one
of them ind es could kill the
romance.—WBT’s “Amos 'n

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery, Inc.

losses, in gaining the league:
lead, the Sigma Chis have
downed the SAE’s, Pi Kapps,
ATOs and Phi Gams by
margins ranging from 3 to 17
points. The second place Kappa
Sigs, who look very impressive,
have defeated the KA’s, SPEs and
Phi Delts by margins from 5 to
#4 points. downed the SAEs, 57 to 40, while
In the first set 6f games on Mon-| the Pikas lost to the SPEs, 34 to
day of this week, the SPEs beat|/40. The ATOs’ Paige, last year’s
the Betas, 40-34, while the Phi| scoring leader, collected 18 points
Gams bearly edged the Pi Kapps,|to pace his team to a 47-43 victory
27-25. The second set was made up| over the Pi Kapps, who were led
of two unusually high-scoring|by Swain and Lennon with 14
games; the Kappa Sigs were “hot” (Continued On Back Page)

ISH DUNKS ONE AGAINST MAROONS
NJ od ~

as they racked up 69 points to the
KA’s 25. Brewer was high point-
man with 22. The Phi Delts beat
the Campus Club by an even 40
points, 59-19. Andrews scored 27
points, the season’s highest in-
dividual performance.

On Tuesday, the Sigma Chis

—

bh
shot at the basket in the game against Charleston. Ray Harding

prepares for « possible rebound. Davidson won, 82-71, avenging o
loss suffered earlier in the season. —(Phote by Daniels).

College smokers

Qe AWE QOt WINSTON
tor Winston! TASTES

Pa

FINER
FILTER!

FINER
FLAVOR!

Che Mabidsonian

ORTA LIBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcat Grapplers

Are Working Hard

For Citadel Meet

By CHARLES McGIRT

The Davidson Wildcat Wrestlers
are hard at work this week pre-
paring for their February 12 tangle
with The Citadel here in Johnston
Gym. Coach Charlie Parker was
quoted as saying, “This should be
a close contest. Both of us beat
Carolina and are about the same
in strength.”

Coach Parker has held long and
hard practice alt week with his
team composed of two “last semes-
ter’ boys and new men. In spite
of the big turn-over, things are
looking good. Two freshmen are
showing great progress. These boys
are Henry Griffin of the 123-pound
class and Bill Warlick who weighs
130 pounds. Ritzel Snider, a 137-
pound sophomore is another one
of the new additions who exhibits
a lot of skill and promise in the
art of wrestling. All the boys are
working hard on the basic funda-
mentals, cleaning up any little mis-
takes which might have gotten by
before. Captain John Buxton, who
holds a large number of wins, was
helping some of the other boys
and practicing for the meet him-
self.

After the Citadel meet, there
will be two other events before the
Southern Conference Tournament.
These opponents will be Washing-
ton and Lee, and V.P.I.

Winter Trackslers
Off fo V. M. |. Meet

By NED PAYNE
The Davidson indoor track squad
will leave tomorrow morning for
Lexington, Virginia, and the Vir-
ginia Relays. Coach Pete Whittle
expects to take shotputters Bill

" | Lazenby, Bill Gramley, and David

Regen; in the high jump Huffaker
will enter; and in the 240-yd.
shuttle hurdle relay, a four-man
team will participate, composed of
Frank Mitchener, Jim Weller, Ros-
well Mallery, Phil Diuguid, or Jim
Hambright.

The Virginia Relays is an open
event held at the V.MI. indoor
track and will include such teams
as Duke, North Carolina, V.M.I.
and Navy.

(Continued On Page Four)

LIKE A
CIGARETTE
SHOULD!

@ No wonder Winston’s so popular with
college smokers! It’s got real favor—full,
rich flavor you'll really enjoy. Winston
tastes good—like a cigarette should!
Along with finer flavor, Winston also
bringe you a finer filter. The exclusive

JERRY SPEAKS:

CAT BASEBALLERS
TO START WORK

ON FEBRUARY 14

PAGE THREE

Chis And Kappa Sigs Leading

Babbling Brooks

Spring is not too far away, at least when speaking in a
sport vein . . . talking to Coach Clements Wednesday, he said
that he expected a big baseball turnout. He will be banking
on eight returning lettermen, which include one catcher,
three pitchers, three infielders, and one outfielder ...
Practice starts February 14, and Coach Clements will be glad
to see anyone, prior to that time, who is planning to go out.

WL, VMI Furnish
Weekend Opposition
For Wildcat Cagers

By BUNNY PERKINSON

This weekend is indeed a busy
one for the Wildcat cagers. To-
night Washington and Lee invades
the ‘Cats’ den for the first meeting
of the two teams this season, and
the visitors are slightly favored
partly as a result of greater height
in every position. The Generals
have an overall season’s record of
five wins against ten losses and
a conference record of 1-3.

Tomorrow night the Cadets from
V.M.L make their first appearance
of the year here, and the 'Cats are
slightly favored in this one. V.M.1.
has a conference record of no wins
and five losses, while the overall
record going into this week's activ-
ities was three games won and
nine lost. The ‘Cats have a 3-1
conference record, and victories
in these two contests would clinch
a spot in the Southern Conference
Tournament to be held March
3, 4, and 5.

Monday night of this past week
saw the 'Cats handed a defeat at
Lexington by the Wake Forest Dea-
cons. Lefty Davis with 33 points
and Dickie Hemric with 32 led the
Baptists’ scoring, as they piled up
an impressive 101-51 victory.
Again, a very noticeable lack of
height greatly hampered the Wild-
cats, as Hemric controlled both
boards most of the night. Hobby
Cobb turned in an outstanding per-
formance for Davidson, as he
bucketed 19 points. A tight zone
by Wake Forest kept the ‘Cats
shooting mostly from the outside
all night, and the ‘Cats 26% ac-
curacy illustrates the effectiveness
of the Deacons’ defense. Lefty
Davis’ 35 points were a result of an

(Continued On Back Page)

the filter cigarette that really tastes like a cigarette!

Winston filter works so effectively, yet
doesn’t “thin” the taste or flatten the
flavor. Winston lets you draw smoothly,
easily~there’s no effort to puff!

Try Winston, the filter cigarette that
tastes good — like a cigarette should!

The big week is here as far as
Davidson's basketball fortunes in
the Southern Conference are con-
cerned. Tonight, the Cats are
pitted against W&L, and tomorrow
night another Lexington squad, the
V.M.L Keydets, are in town. Next
Thursday night, it’s Darrell Floyd
and Co., from Furman. By playing
heads-up ball, the Cats could boost
their conference standing all the
way to the top .. . or by losing,
they could drop out of contention
for Southern Conference honors.
Three Big Games—all here this
weekend or next week. Let’s get
out and really give the Cats the
backing that they are going to
need!!

——

With the Inter-Fraternity Bas-
ket ball season well underway, the
Kappa Sigs are definitely the team
to beat. With at least three fairly
capable playing units, these boys
are loaded. Their latest victory
was over .the Phi Gams in the
closest call they have had to date,
43-40. If they continue to go at
this pace, quite a few more teams
will bite the dust before they are
through.

Iron Men: Bill Gramley, at the
present, is dividing his time be-
tween football and track, while
Dave Regen is doing the same
thing with wrestling and track.
Bo Abernathy’s out for football
and swimming, too. When baseball
season rolis around, we shall see
several more boys begin to divide
their time.

Attention !

Coach Clements has announced
that Davidson baseball practice
will begin on February 14, with
equipment being issued on Monday
(the 14th) from 2-5 p.m. All those
who wish to try out for the team
are asked to see Coach Clements
next week.

