With the changing
of the personnel of
the sports department
of the Davidsonian, it
seems appropriate that
something should be
Said of the proposed
policy that the new
“regime” intends to
follow. Judging from
the success of the
sports page in the past,
one immediately sees
that to attempt to up-
hold the standards set
by those who have
gone before is as good
a policy as could be
followed. During the past year, Jim, Holshouser has done an
excellent job in covering the points of interest on the David-
son sports scene, and he and his staff deserve a great deal of
credit for a job well done.

SUGGESTIONS WELCOMED

The sports page, like the rest of the Davidsonian, belongs
to the entire student body, so any suggestions you may have
as to how it may be improved will be graciously received and
carefully considered. If you feel at any time that something
pertaining to: sports at Davidson has been omitted or im-
properly reported on this page, feel free to write a letter to
the Sports Editor and express your viewpoint. If your criticism
is valid, every effort will be made to improve on the point in
question.

INTERESTING SIDELIGHT

The exceptionally fine play of the baseball team, this
spring has aroused more than the usual interest in the dia-
mond sport, as the greatly increased attendance at the home
games will testify. For those who might be interested, John
Bernhardt has taken the time to do a little research and learn
how baseball had its beginning here at Davidson. The follow-
ing is what he found out, taken from the Autobiography of
General George W. Melver, son, of Professor Alexander Mc-
Iver of Davidson:

“In the fall of 1865, Davidson College made a fresh
start, and it was ioticeable that many of the students
were clad in Confederate uniforms. Some of them were
crippled from wounds and others had been held as
prisoners of war in northern prison camps. It is a some-
what interesting fact that the students began to play
baseball when the College reopened, although the game
had been unknown in the days before the war: The ex-
planation I have heard is that in some of the northern
prisons, the inmates learned the game from prison guards
and were allowed, or perhaps encouraged, to play the
game. Probably the same thing occurred in other
localities, so it is likely that what is now the National
Game, devised by Abner Doubleday, a native of New
York and a graduate of West Point, was introduced into
the South in this way.”

Perhaps the most unusual thing about this story is the
fact that Mr. Doubleday was not a graduate of Davidson Col-
lege and did not first dream of baseball! while in his freshman

year here.

SUPPORT SPRING TEAMS

For the first time in a long while, the three major sports
teams of the spring season all are boasting winning records.
The tennis team, as defending Southern Conference cham-
pions, are favored to repeat: the baseball team is off to its
fastest start in many a season and will be in contention for
the crown all the way; and the track team showed unusual
strength in winning its first meet last Saturday. Coach Whittle
feels that Clemson tomorrow is the big test, and if the boys
can take this one, they can definitely be labeled as very strong
contenders for the conference meet to be held at the season's
end. With these facts in mind, the student body should give
each of these teams its wholehearted support and thus show
that some winning athletic teams will greatly increase the

somewhat weak school spirit.
ee

GET SET FOR THE FROLICS—

With An

AFTER - SIX DINNER JACKET

Rayon 27.95
Orlon 35.50

RENTALS ALSO

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

SS SS Se SS SSS SSS eS rs sa SSS

overall

‘

CINDER SQUAD SQUELCHES
RICHMOND AND MERCER

Che Mabidsonian

ALRENDA LUK UB)

ORTA LIBERTAS

NETTERS TO HIT
VIRGINIA TEAMS
i

TOMORROW |

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1955

PAGE THREE

Track Team Downs Richmona, Mercer

Ed Speir Elected to
Lead 1956 Swimmers

Coach Carol Hambright has an-
nounced that Ed Speir, a star per-
former in the 50 and 100-yard dash
events, has been elected captain of
the 1956 Davidson swimming team.
Speir will head a list of thirteen
returning lettermen that includes
Tommy Rivers, John Winfrey, Staf-
ford Query, Larry Parrott, Alex
Shepard, Billy Carroll, Frank Ki-
ker, Basil Sharp, Jim Traviss, John
Edwards, Jeff Smith, and manager
Dick Morehead.

The only man who will be lost
to next year’s team is Al Ormond,
the captain this season and a four-
year letterman. According to
Coach Hambright, Ormond’s lose
will be keenly felt, but with the
host of returning lettermen, plus
the addition of several incoming
freshmen who will be eligible to
swim, there is no reason to be-
lieve that the 1956 season will not
be a very successful one. e

The schedule next year will be
approximately the same as the
one played this winter, except for
the fact that V.M.I. is returning to
the schedule and that Catholic
University of Washington, D.C.,
may also be added. At present it
looks as though the tankmen will
meet Eastern Carolina, Wofford,
Emory, The Citadel, South Caro-
lina, Clemson, V.P.1., Washington
and Lee, V.M.I. and Catholic Uni-
versity. Meets on the road will
probably be at Blacksburg, Vir-
ginia; Charleston, S.C.; Greenville,
S.C.; Spartanburg, S.C., and Lex-
ington, Virginia, with the confer-
ence finals to be at Lexington.

Coach Hambright says that he
understands that some good swim-
mers from all over the state are
planning to attend here next year.
These boys, plus the freshmen on
this year's squad who now have
some solid experience behind them,
will furnish an excellent nucleus
on which to build his future teams.
Rising sophomores Jim Travis,
Chuck Blake, Bob Oliver, Roger
Bates and Curt Ormond are being
counted on for some top-notch
performances next year.

This year’s team had the most

successful season in the history of
Davidson swimming, finishing the
season with a record of seven
wins and only two losses in regu-
lar season meets and taking third
place in the Southern Conference
Meet, which was held here for the
first time.

Coach Hambright expressed con-
cern over the fact that many of
the schools on the Cats’ schedule
will for the first time have a
swimming team that is subsidized.
This will undoubtedly make the
going a little rougher than usual,
but the coach is counting on his
boys to shape into a team that will
be a strong contender for the
conference championship all the
way through the season.

Softball and Tennis
Begin for Greeks

The addition of the points gained
in the volleyball competition has
resulted in only one change in the
interfraternity standings,
the K.As having boosted their
position one notch. The second-
place Phi Delts, winners of the
volleyball tournament, gained
thirty-eight points on the front-
running Kappa Sigs and now trail
by only fourteen points, 846: to
832. The Phis are almost a hundred
points ahead of the third place
S.A.E.s who have a total of 738.
The Sigma Chi’s 624 points place
them in the number four position.
The only three remaining events
are varsity competition, tennis, and
softball. Bad weather has been
hampering the latter two.

Softball was scheduled to begin
on Wednesday of last week but
was delayed one day and started
on April 7. Rain on two days,
Monday and Wednesday of this
week, left the fields too wet for
action, and the games were post-
poned until the last wéek of the
season. In the four games that
were played on Tuesday, the Pikas,
A.1T.0.s, Phi Delts, and K.A.s de-
feated the Kappa Sigs, the Campus

(Continued on Page Four)

Bill Rowland Is Named
Wildcat Of The Week

In selecting an outstanding athlete to honor as Wildcat
of the Week, those upon whom the task of selection falls are
faced with a very definite problem, for there are a host of
boys who can be labeled outstanding in their various fields
of athletic endeavor. However, it would be most difficult to
find any man on the Davidson | ——————————-—————_
scene who is better. in any two|ball field and the baseball dia-
sports than Bill Rowland, a 23-year-) mond.
old junior from Gastonia, N.C.,] For the past two seasons, Bil
and a member of Kappa Sig Fra-|has engineered the Cats’ football
ternity. Bill is a veteran of two, attack from the quarterback slot,

years’ service in the Marines dur-| displaying skillful passing and fun-
ing the Korean War, and since re-| ning ability. His running was such
turning from the service he has| that in spring practice the coaches

performed admirably on the foot-

(Continued on Page Four)

—aelt

L

Coach Clements talks things over with his ster outfielder, Bill Rowlend.

When you’re flat broke
and feeling kind of mean...

Cats Lose to V.P.L.;
Mee! Cafawha Today

Last Friday, the defending con-
ference champs from V.P.1. in-
vaded the local diamond and ad-
ministered a 7-2 defeat to the Cat
nine in a loosely played ball game.
Dependable Johnny Smith pitched
his usual fine game, allowing the
hard-hitting Techmen only six hits
and one earned run, bift the leaky
Cat defense committed seven er-
rors. Davidson collected only three
hits, which materialized into the
two earned runs.

Dyke Little got the Cats off to
a good start in the first inning
with a well placed single, and
second-sacker Buzzy Hope followed
by catching a fast ball on the
nose and blasting it out of the
park. Just prior to going to the
plate Buzz had stated that if he
got a fast one he was going to put
it away, and he did just that, the
ball traveling some 350 feet.

Coach Clements has been well
pleased with the performance thus
far in the season of freshmen John
Patterson, Ollie Harris, Shelbourne
Wallace, Rhett Sanders, Alan
Moore, and Dave Page. He is count-
ing on them for reserve strength
and on oceasion for regular duty.

This afternoon the Cats are
scheduled to face Catawba on the
home diamond. Catawba is annual-
ly one of the top teams in the
North State Conference, so the
boys must be on their toes if they
are to regain their winning form.
The only other game with a North
State team was with Lenoir Rhyne
earlier in the season, and the Cats
came out on the long end of a
23-9 score. A second encounter
with the Lenoir-Rhyne squad was
rained out.

Tuesday of next week the Me-
Crary Eagles invade the campus,
bringing a host of semi-pro stars,
so this should prove to be an in-
teresting contest. McCrary always
fields an excellent team and
furnishes some of the toughest
competition in this section of the

country.

The Cats at present have a 1-1
record in conference play, which
places them among the leaders in
the standings.

And Pop comes through with

some spending green...

Take 11 Of 15 Firsts;
At Clemson Tomorrow

By CHARLES HELMS

Sweeping first places in 11 out of 15 events, Davidson’s
track team outclassed Richmond and Mercer in their first
track meet, scoring 93 points to 49 for Richmond and 21 for
Mercer. Davidson took all the running events and three field -

events.

Nelfers Face VM,
W&L and Kalamazoo

By LEON HOWELL

Davidson's tough netters will be
subjected to all the tennis that
they can cope with after this
weekend, meeting VMI on Friday,
and moving on to Washington and
Lee for a double header on Satur-
day. There they will take on ever
tough Kalamazoo in the morning
and then meet W&L in the after-
noon.. Prospects are good, how-
ever, for a clean sweep of the
matches.

Last Saturday Wayne University
of Detroit sampled the tennis
prowess of Coach McKee's pro-
teges and wound up on the short
end of a 7-2 score. All the singles
were good, but the faet that the
Cats dropped their number two
and three doubles matches was
cause for some concern.

Since returning from the spring

tours, where they were playing
against teams that had been
practicing all year, the. record

Stands at 7 wins against a single
loss. In some of the easier matches,
Coach McKee has used Thorpe and
Robinson, sophomores, and Make-
peace, a freshman, in varying com-
binations. These three will be the
nucleus of ‘next year's squad, and
experience gained now will be in-
valuable then.

On the whole, the team is play-
ing excellent tennis, particularly
with the limited amount of time
that they have been able to prac-
tice. Keesler, Snead, Green, and
Clark are playing their usual fine
brand of tennis, with Clark
definitely the sharpest of the four
at the moment. In the next three
weeks, many excellent teams will
play against the Cats and if Kees-
ler hits his peak there should be

(Continued On Page Four)

M-m-man,

Phil Koonce was high point man
for the meet with 28% points, as
he took first place in the 100-yard
dash with a time of 10 seconds,
first place in the 220-yard dash
in 23.4 seconds, and second place
in the broad jump. Also outstand-
ing were Frank Mitchener with
1812 points and Pete Ashcraft with
18. Mitchener won the 440-yard
dash in a time of 51.6 seconds.
Davidson's outstanding distance
man, Pete Ashcraft, took the mile
in 4:29.7 and finished in a thrill.
ing dead heat with Floyd Feeney
for first place in the two-mile run
in 10:46.2.

Explanation of the high-point
totals is that in a triangular meet, ©
each man gets double points since
he is competing against two teams
instead of the usual one.

Other first places went to Jack
Huffaker in the high jump with
a height of 6 feet Ys inch. Bill
Gramley in the shotput with a dis
tance of 44 feet 9 inches, Harley
Smith in the javelin with a dis
tance of 165 feet % inch, Don
Campbell in the 120-yard high
hurdles with a time of 15.6 seconds,
and Snyder Garrison in the 880
yard dash with a time of 2:05.3.
Davidson also took first in the
one mile relay with the team of
Ashcraft, Koonce, Garrison and
Mitchener in 3:36.4.

Riggs of Richmond was out
standing for the opponents, win
ning the broad jump and the low
hurdles.

Coach Whittle's men travel to
Clemson, South Carolina, tomor-
row for their second outing. The
Tigers have defeated North Caro
lina State and Wake Forest thus
far in their season, and their
only loss has been to the Univer
sity of Georgia. Last year, in a
triangular meet that included
Wofford, Clemson edged the Cats

| by the score of 77-75, so the Cats

will be seeking a little revenge.

that’s PURE PLEASURE!

For more pure pleasure... SMOKE CAMELS #

No other cigarette is so rich-tasting,

P.S. No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel’s exclusive
biend of costly tobaccos — one of the reasons why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette!

yet so mild!

.

B J. Bernolds Todecco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
