Speaking

~ of -

Sports »

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Oe

SOME CAGE TALK

With the bowl] games over, full interest of the sports
world is now turned to basketball, and the big talk in the
South is the Wolfpack of North Carolina State, currently
ranked as second in the nation, along with Kentucky's Wild-
cats who continue to be selected as the nation’s best when
it comes to the cage game. N. C. State has been the topic of
wide discussion since the Wolfpack has been placed on proba-
tion by the NCAA and is ineligible for the NCAA tourney, the
only one in which they are permitted to play according to the
rules of the Atlantic Coast Conference (naturally, they are
still eligible for the AAC tournament). Since State has come
up with what many think is the finest crew Everett Case has
ever assembled there, the decision is especially cruel to Wolf-
pack supporters. There has been talk of a change in the rules
that will permit the State club to accept a possible bid to the
National Invitation Tournament, the second of the top tour-
neys. Whether this happens or not will determine whether
the Carolinas have their top-flight representative in the post-
season clashes. It’s too bad that it ‘had to happen this season,
but then, if Staté had not used the tactics (spring tryouts
of prospective players) which brought about the suspension,
they might not have the team that is tearing the opposition to
shreds.

The Kentucky club got the shock of the season last week
when Georgia Tech, one of .the weakest members of the
Southeastern Conference, suddenly caught fire and handed
the Wildcats their first home-court loss in 129 games. It was a
near-impossible win for the Jackets who are traditionally one
of the league doormats, but the loss did not drop the Wild-
cats from their No. 1 rating in national standings. The game
which may accomplish that feat will be played in Raleigh on
January 22, when State meets LaSalle. The Explorers, with All-
American Tom Gola at the controls, will probably provide the
stiffest opposition of the season for the Wolfpack, and if the
Staté club can take the victory, they stand a good chance of

moving into the country’s top spot.

LOCAL SCENE LOOKS DARK

On the Davidson basketball scene, the outlook has be-
come a bit gloomy. Wildcat supporters watched Tuesday as
the club suffered its seventh loss of the season, against only
four wins. Nevertheless, this year’s club has made an im-
provement on last year’s record, which stood at 3-10 going
into exams. Coach Danny Miller’s crew has had to go without

a “big man,” and when Gaylord Walker hurt his ankle last
week, it left the club with only one man, freshman George
Lyon, over the 6-2 mark. The lack of the tall guys has hurt
in the early games when the Cats got less than their share of
the all-important rebounds. ,

In spite of the over-all record, the Cats are steadily mov-
ing toward a position in the Southern Conference Tournament.
Davidson has won two games while losing only one in confer-
ence action, and all the signs seem to indicate that the Cats
won't be one of the clubs that are left out when tourney time
rolls around. And with a few breaks, the Red and Black crew
could easily finish high in family standings.

PERKINSON WINS CONTEST

The Davidsonian pick-the-winners contest got off to a
flying start in the last issue with the staff writers making the
first predictions. Bunny Perkinson was high man on the totem
pole, picking eight winners in the twelve-game poll. Following
him were Bob Pulliam and Leon Howell with seven winners,
and Jon Regen and John Johnson with six right picks. Perkin-
son’s winning margin came as a result of his picking George
Washington as an upset winner over Wake Forest. He was the
only one who picked the Colonials.

This week’s predictions are shown below.

Ex-Cat Bobby Renn On All-Star Club

BOBBY RENN GOES

BIG TIME IN SERVICE

FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1955

The Mabidsonian

ALENDA LURK USBI CREA LIBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON MEN ATTEND

NCAA MEETING IN N.Y.

PAGE THREE

Davidson Cagers To Hit YP 1 tonight

Matmen In Even Break|™

With Big Four Clubs

Davidson’s Varsity wrestlers played host to North Caro-
lina State last Wednesday night, and the Wolfpack matmen
proved to be too tough for the Wildcats as they pounded out

a 24-8 decision. The loss evened the Davidson record against| |

Big Four competition at one win and one loss. Previously, the

Winter Track Team
Begins Workouts

Twelve boys began workouts last
week for the winter track season
which begins February 5, 1955.
The team, under the watchful eye
of Coach Whittle, will continue
working out weekly through Feb-
ruary when the regular season
closes. The Wildcats will enter
three meets, the highlight of which
will be the Southern Conference
meet February 18th, at the V.M.L
fieldhouse in Lexington, Virginia.

The team will be built around
last year's stalwarts, Frank
Mitchner, Phil Koonce, and Jack
Huffaker. Moving up from last
year’s freshman squad, which was
one -of the best in recent years,

(Continued On Back Page)

JERRY SPEAKS:

Wildcats had beaten the North] »

Carolina team in a match at

Greensboro. -
Although some excellent]
Matches resulted from ‘the

meeting, Davidson was only able
to win two individual matches.
Captain Johnny Buxton won an
easy decision in his match, while
Ritzell Snider provided the lone
Wildcat pin of the night.

An unusually large crowd, was
on hand for the meet, and’ fine
support for the team was shown
by the students present.

This year’s team seems to be one
of the best Davidson has had since
the war, and future meets will
probably prove this point. When
tourney time rolls around at Wash-
ington and Lee on the first week
end in March, the Wildcat scrap-
pers are sure to be right in the
thick of the fight for the confer-
ence championship.

Babbling Brooks

A week ago, ‘three representatives of the Davidson Col-
lege Athletic Committee arrived back on the campus after

attending the annual NCAA meetings in New York City. Dr.

'F. W. Johnston was the voting delegate at the general meeting,

The hopes of the '55 edition of
the Wildeat footbal] team were
given a tremendous boost recently
when Coach Dole learned that
Bobby Renn, who recently was
selected on the All-European
Armed Service football team, will
return to Davidson next fall and
once again don the togs for the
* Wildcats.

Renn, who played football for
Davidson in 1952, before he was
drafted, is considered as an ex-
cellent ball-handler and a better

than average passer. Playing with
the 198th Armour Division this past
year,. he had a_ forty-five-yard
punting average. Renn played
quarterback for his Army team,
being switched from his halfback
spot. he played at Davidson.

Renn will be a sophomore on re-
entering Davidson next fall with
three years of eligibility left. If
he can live up to the expectation,
the Cats may be greatly helped by
his return.

Coach Whittle was the alternate delegate and also attended

the track coaches’ meeting, while
Coach Dole attended the football
coaches’ meeting.

The big question involved was
the discussion concerning televised
football. The recommendation, to
be decided by a separate commit-
tee at a later date, was to continue
the practice of televising only one
game a week, on a single network,
as was done in 1954.

At the football meeting, one
recommendation was made for a
change in the substitution rule. It
will also be decided by a commit-
tee. If passed, the four-minute
rule will be abolished, permitting
a man to re-enter a game after
the quarter in which he started.

Davidson will field the first
sprint shuttle relay team in its his-
tory at the Virginia Relays. This
is a 240-yard event, with each man
carrying the baton 60 yards. As of
the present, outstanding in the
trials are Frank Mitchener, Phil
Koonce and Jimmy Weller, a Char-
lotte freshman. Weller and Koonce
have also been outstanding in the
broad jump.

It is evident that after David-
son's 81-63 lacing by Wofford, our
basketball fortunes will remain
jeopardized until Coach Miller can
find that good big man. And no
one can say that coach hasn’t been
trying to find that man. He has
made several trips to distant areas
to interview those boys who he
knows can be of aid on the boards.

As far as the situation goes, Da
vidson has about the best calibre
of small men a coach could want,
but the trouble is they're all small
as basketball goes. With the in-
jury of Gaylord Walker, a vastly

The Davidson Students Pick ‘Em

Diek
Adams

——
Virginia over Washington and Lee

N.C. State over Wake Forest
Duke over Virginia

George Washington over Maryland
Penn State over West Virginia
LaSalle over N. C. State

South Carolina over VPI
Richmond over Wake Forest
Maryland over Navy

N.C. State over Villanova
Furman over Clemson

Duke over George Washington
Furman over South Carolina
Phillips over Wake Forest

N. C. State over North Carolina

Tommy Bill Henry Bill
Teylor Rawson Brown MeNair
Virginia | Virginia Virginia Virginia
State State State State ~
Duke Duke Duke Duke
Maryland Maryland Maryland Geo. Wash.
Penn St. W. Va. W. Va. Penn St.
State LaSalle State LaSalle
VPI VPI VPI VPI
Richmond Richmond Wake F. Wake F.
Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland
State State State State
Furman Furman Furman Furman
Geo. Wash Duke Duke Geo. Wash
Furman Furman Furman Furman
Phillips Phillips Phillips Phillips
State State State State

improved player over his freshman
year, Davidson's rebounding hopes
are about shot. The boys have
plenty of fight left and they'll need
our support, so until the time
when good fortune comes Coach
Miller’s way in the form of a tall
man, let’s continue to support the
Cats.

As one person said, “It would
be quite a spectacle to have about
60 Korean veterans dispersed
through the crowd at a Davidson
basketball game during the play-
ing of the National Anthem,”

“Cats Seeking Revenge

“In Blacksburg Contest

Tonight the Wildcats invade Blacksburg, Virginia, to meet
the Cadets of V.P.I. in a Southern Conference battle, and the
Cats stand an excellent chance of bettering their present 2-1
conference record. Going into this contest, Hobby Cobb boasts

7

‘ i.

4

” Davidson's Hobby Cobb is shown above as he reaches beyond
outstretched Wofford hands to score a basket that helped him get
26 points against the Terriers.—(Photo by Daniel.)

Cat Tankers Take Win
From Eastern Carolina

an average per game of slightly over 23 points, and he'll be

out to up his average if at all
possible. In a pre-Christmas game
here at Davidson, V.P.I. took the
measure of the Cats, so the de-
sire to avenge the defeat should
be an added incentive for Coach
Miller's quintet.

At present the Cats have an
overall won and lost record of 4-7,
due largely to a disastrous road
trip prior to the Christmas holi-
days. On that jaunt, the Cats
dropped a game to the College of

-, | Charleston and defeated The Cita-
‘ {del before travéling to Memphis

and losing to Southwestern and
the University of the South. The
day after returning from their trip
the Cats played host to Duke.
Though they lost the game by the
score of 105 to 81, the boys turned
in a very creditable performance.
Two days later came the loss to
V.P.I.

During the holidays the team
traveled to Asheboro and met the
McCrary Eagles, one of the top
independent teams in this section
of the country. Greatly aided by
22 points by Sammy Ranzino, the
former All-American at State, the
Eagles came out of the contest
the victors. Worse than the loss of
this holiday game was the loss of
Gaylord Walker, outstanding cen-
ter, who chipped an ankle bone in

Greek Basketball
Under Way With
First Round Games

The interfraternity basketball
season opened in Johnston Gym-
nasium Monday night with eight
teams clashing in the opening
round. The games were played
two at a time on the cross courts.
In the initial battles, the SAE and
Pika quintets were victorious. The
SAEs _ scattered their scoring
among the team members as they
ran up 44 points to down the ATOs.
Baker scored 14 of the losers’ 38
points while Bradford dropped in
10 for the winners. The Pikas’
Gaither was Monday’s high-point
man with 17 tallies, although the
game in which he played was the
lowest-scoring contest of the eve-
ning. The Pikas beat the Betas by
an even ten points, winning 38 to
28. In the second set of games, the
fast-breaking Kappa Sigs racked
up 52 points to stop the SPEs.
Feeney, with 12 points, lead the
Kappa Sigs, but almost everly play-
ing member of that team scored
one or more field goals. For the

Davidson's varsity swimming team traveled to Greenville,
North Carolina, last weekend to meet the Eastern Carolina

losers, Brown hit five foul shots
and the same number of field
goals to amass 15 points. In what

a practice session. Gaylord will be
out for the remainder of the sea-

— =

on the long end of the 60-24 score.
In the individual scoring, Bill
Carrell, with 10 points, was high
man for the Cats. Carrell won two
first places.

Prior to the Eastern meet, the
Davidson tankers had taken a vic-
tory over The Citadel and a home
meet win over Eastern Carolina.
Next Monday will afford the swim-
mers a chance to better their
mark. They will travel to Colum-
bia, South Carolina to meet the
University swimmers.

tankers of the North State Conference. The Wildcat swimmers
brought back their third consecutive win without a loss. The
Davidson team won eight of ten first places and came out

BULLETIN

Managers wanted! There are two
vacancies open for anyone in-
terested in managing the David-
son JVs, For further information,

see Jerry Helms.

When a roommate gets you
a blind date with
his younger sister...

and she turns out to
be a real doll...

son.

Tuesday night of this week the
Wofford Terriers invaded the
Cats’ den and played as if they
were thinking only of avenging the
defeat administered by the Cats
in football. Superior height and re-
serve power enabled the Terriers
to build up an early lead that they
never relinquished, as three men
contributed 15 points or more.
Dennie Mathis’ 17 was high for the
visitors, while Hobby Cobb's 26
was high for the game. The action
was often interrupted by the
referee’s whistle, as a total of 48
personal fouls were called.

In the preliminary game, the

M-m-man,

was undoubtedly the night's
closest game, the Sigma Chis edged
the Phi Gams 45-43 in a hotly-
contested, see-saw battle. Pitzer
and Shaw shared high honors for
the Sigs, each scoring 10 points.

Davidson JV's lost a close contest
to Appalachian State JV’s, 65-61.
A standout in defeat was Bobby
Baker, who scored 26 points, 18
of which came in the first half.

The Cats took their second
game of the season last Friday by
defeating The Citadel Bulldogs,
87-60. Harding and Bennett were

(Continued On Back Page)

thas PURE PLEASURE!

For more pure pleasure... SMOKE CAMELS /
No other cigarette is so rich-tasting

yet so mild!

P.$. No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel's exclusive
blend of costly tobaccos! That's why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette!

B. J. Reynolds Tebescs On, Winsten-Gemm, H. C.
