CATS OVERPOWER : ) REPORT ON
VM, 21-7 FRANCE
VOL. XLIV ag "DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1955 No.6

BAN

Shown above

is the third Freshman Council in the history of

-

Davidson College. Charlies Reed is serving as chairman this year.

Frosh Council
Plans for ’55-’56

BY RICHARD BRUBAKER

The third Freshman Council to exist in the history of
Davidson College has started the wheels to grind on one of
its major undertakings—Freshmen-Parents’ Day.

Committees set up by the chair-
man and secretary of the council,
along with the Freshman Advisor,
have begun to lay initial plans for
the event, which is to take place,
in the near future.

The planning of this annual
event is only an illustration of one
of the many purposes for which the
council was initiated last year to

Puckett Announces
Draft Deferment Test

College students interested in
taking the Selective Service College
Qualification Test have until mid-
night, Tuesday, November 1 to sub-
mit application, it was announced
today by W. O. Puckett, test super-
visor, The test center in this area
is the Science Building.

To be eligible to apply for the
test, scheduled to be given to col-
lege students throughout the
United States, November 17, a stu-
dent must intend to request defer-
ment as a student, be satisfactorily
pursuing a full-time course of in-
struction, and must not have pre-
viously taken the test. The purpose
of the testing program is to pro-
vide evidence for the use of local
boards in ‘considering deferment of
a registrant from military service
as a student.

The test was developed by
Science Research Associates of Chi-
cago and New York, one of. the
nation’s leading publishers of edu-
cational testing, reading-improve-
ment, and guidance materials.

Qualified students interested in
taking this test to qualify for pos-
sible draft deferment in order to
continue their college education,
are urged to. get their applications
at any Selective Service Local
Board before the November 1 dead-
line.

fulfill. Beginning, no doubt, from
the consensus that the Freshman
Class should have a voice to express
its opinions and desires, and that
such a voice should be of an official
nature, the idea of a Freshman
Council soon became a reality. In
general terms, it was the purpose
of the Council to establish a link
between the members of the Fresh-
man Class as a body, and every
other phase of Davidson College. In
doing so, it would create an addi-
tional bond of mutual understand-
ing between the college and the
Freshman Class.

The council consists of the Fresh-
man Advisor and one elected mem-
ber from each freshman counseling
group. One freshman member is
elected to serve as chairman of the
council and another, as secretary.
Its activities are under the general
sponsorship of student government
although it: may work also with
any other organization of the col-
lege.

Charles Reed is serving as this
year’s chairman, and John Renfro,
as secretary. Other members in-
clude Bill Patton, Gene Long,
Richard Brubaker, Tom Jefferson,
Ned Austell, Henry Brown, Tom
McCutchen, Bill Pfefferkorn, Sam
Sloan, Larry Stell, Bill Couch, Ray
Turpin, Bob Wynne, Bob Huffaker,
Doug Stewart, Putnam Crabtree,
Tom: Johnson, Tom Cutting, and
John Child, Freshman Advisor.

Mr. C. Shaw Smith, Coordinator
of Student Activities, has expressed
the hope that the Freshman Coun-
cil will become an even more effec-
tive means of assisting new stu-
dents to adjust to their roles as,
members of the Davidson College

Freshmen-Parents’ Day, an an-
nual event at Davidson, has been
scheduled for Saturday, November
12. Officially beginning at 9:00 o’-
clock in the morning, the program

} will continue until late Saturday

afternoon.

The Freshman Council, working
through four committees appointed
from its membership, has _ pro-
gressed a long way in setting up
the concrete details of the pro-
gram. Registration and campus
tours will begin at 9:00 o'clock and
continue until 11:00.

The main program of the day will
be held in Chambers Auditorium
from 11:00 o'clock until 12:00, dur-
ing which time a welcome will be
extended to the parents from the
President of the College, Dr. John
R. Cunningham. A speech will be
given by the Dean of Students, Dr.
Samuel R. Spencer, and a_ per-
formance will be given by the Male
Chorus. Presiding during the pro-
gram will be the Chairman of the
Freshman Council, Charles Reed,
who will introduce the freshman
advisors.

The afternoon agenda calls for
the football game between David-
son and Wofford, after which will
be held a faculty-parent reception,
the final event of the day

Chairman of the planning com-
mittees are Bill Patton, publicity
committee; Ned Austell, invitation
committee; Sam Sloan, entertain-
ment committee; and Bob Huffaker
and Doug Stewart, program com-
mittee.

Lodging will be provided
visitors remaining overnight

for

Held Many

The Reverend Ernest Lee Stoffel,
D. D., of the First Presbyterian
Church of Charlotte, will deliver
the Communion Meditation at
Vespers on October 30.

Dr. Stoffel is a graduate of King
College at Bristol, Tennessee, the
University of Tennessee at Knox-
ville, and Union Theological Semi-
nary in Richmond. He holds the
degrees of Master of Theology and
Doctor of Theology from Union
Seminary.

Before coming to First Church in
January, 1955, Dr. Stoffel had held
several preaching and teaching po-

Vespers Speaker Has

Les Brown & Band
For Concert in Cha

Prefers Sound, Beat

——— a

Student Council Petition
Asks Unlimited Functions

President Perrin Anderson called the October 24 meeting

/of the Student Council -to order in the Green Room of the

| College Union.
| The first order of business con-|
cerned the matter of fraternity off-!
campus funetions. The matter had
been discussed at the previous
| meeting, so the Couneil passed, by
a voice vote, to petition the faculty
to allow the fraternities to have an
unlimited number of off-campus |
functions
| Councilmen Jason McManus and
| Bill Bondurant were appointed to!
idraw up the petition, which was)
\then presented to the faculty Presi- |
ldent Anderson said that it would
| probably be about two weeks be-|
fore the Council heard from the
faculty
Couneilman Clyde Robinson then |

—

reasons why Freshmen were not
allowed to have cars this year. Dean
Spencer said that it was generally
felt that students should _ first
prove. themselves academically be
fore they be allowed to keep cars.
Secondly, he said that he was un-

Les Brown, his band, and pretty dark-eyed Jo Ann Greer will present a concert in Chambers Audi-
torium on Tuesday evening, November 22, sponsored by the Inter-Fraternity Council,

Consonance

and Melody

Les Brown and “The Band of Renown” will present a

concert in Chambers Auditorium at Davidson College on
Tuesday night, November 22. Acclaimed as the number one
band in the nation, Brown’s performance comes at a very
advantageous time for Davidson students since the second

holidays begin the next day

The latest polls taken in 1955 re-
veal that “The Band of Renown”
has been voted number one band
of the year by Down Beat, Metro-
nome, and World magazines, and
number one swing band by the Na-
tional Ballroom Operators Associa-
tion. The group also holds Bill-
board’s award for the best record
album of the year

Brown, who has just signed a
contract with Capitol Records, is
considered one of America’s finest
musical arrangers as well as a song

Former Red Officer
To Speak At Y Meet

Nicholas T. Goneharoff, a Soviet
tank commander in World War I,
will be guest speaker at the second
YMCA meeting of the year on
November 8.

Mr. Goncharoff, now a member
jof the staff of the International

Committee

Revises

review period ends the preceding Friday and Thanksgiving

writer. His greatest composition is
the famous “Sentimental Journey.”

Les is a graduate of Ithaca Con-
servatory of Music, New York Mili
tary Academy, and Duke Universi-
ty. At Duke he played tenor sax
with. the Blue Devils, his first two
years at school. He became leader
of this band his junior year, which
under his leadership became one

of. the best college bands ever
known

After his at Durham the
young musician headed for New

York, and as well as playing dates
as a sideman, turned to arranging
His arrangements. were used by
such leaders as Isham Jones, Red

Nichols, Ruby Newman, and Jim
my Dorsey

In 1940, Brown organ#ed the
“Band of Renown,” which has

moved steadily forward to number
one. He joined Bob Hope’s radio
program in 1946 and has remained
associated with him ever since.

|

Announcement Rules

Announcements from the
form will hereafter be restricted to
the Student Body meeting follow-
ing the Friday service according to|
a policy adopted by the Chapel

Committee at its Tuesday meeting. |
|

plat-

der the impression that oftentimes | official bulletin

In making this decision the com-
mittee called attention to both the!

board andthe

upperclassmen pressurized the | pgyidsonian as other means of pub-|

using their
should

into
Freshmen

Freshmen
when the
studying

their positions in. the Freshmen

es

cars |
be
It was felt that if the| terest.
Freshmen objected strongly to the |

new policy that they would use| |, "
ulle

| Council to make known their wish-| 4d posted immediately thereafter.

licizing meetings and events of in-|
|

Announcements for the official |
tin board are picked up ane

The Davidsonian is open for an-|

On the matter of extending local} nouncements until Wednesday of
|

sitions. He served at Waddell Me- \,,,4¢ a motion that the Council in-|
morial Presbyterian : Church in vestigate the possibility of charter-
| Rapidan, Virginia, during 1947, and ing a bus to take students to the
a eer instructor ‘8 New Testa Davidson-Richmond game on No-|
iment Greek at Union Seminary amber 5, This motion was passed
| 1946-48.

From 1948 to 1952, he was pastor
at the First Presbyterian Church of Europe was received from the NSA
Maxton, from which he went to For those students who are inter:
St. Paul’s Newington Church in ested, information concerning the

by a voice vote
Information on student tours to)

Charlotte telephone service to the! each week.
town of Davidson, President An-|
derson }

|

aid that he was still work-| The committee is requesting per-
ing on the matter. He commented,| sons who lead the Tuesday and
however, that “things are look
ing 1”

Councilman Bill Bondurant then

| Thursday chapel services to refuse
| announcements regardless of the

| YMCA, is now engaged in a study Jo Ann Greer the pretty dark-
to get the facts on Communist tac- | eyed, 24-year-old, songstress for the
tices with youth organizations and | band hails from Hollywood. At the
religious groups and helping to de-| present time she is one of the
| fine what might be called the Chris-| busiest vocalists in Hollywood. She
| tian alternative to Communism. jhas appeared on many radio and
He is appearing before various | television shows. Her _ beautiful
groups in North America giving his| voice is used constantly by the
impressions of Communist methods | movie studios when she sings for
of conversion to their materialistic | the stars. Her most popular success
philosophy. His appearance here is | was doing the singing for Rita Hay-
only one in a long series of such| worth in “Affair In Trinidad” for
appearances. (Continued on Page Four)

Robert Merrill to
In Second Artist Series

BY CHUCK WRIGHT

Robert Merrill, top baritone of the Metropolitan Opera,
radio and television, will appear in concert in Chambers Audi-
torium on November 4, as the second feature in this year's
Artist Series.

Now entering his tenth season
at the Metropolitan, Mr. Merrill
has sung leading roles in some two

|

baseball in his mouth, and even a
bat in the mouth is not uncommon,

Naturally I grew up playing ball on

Edinburgh in the summer of 1952

family and, at the same time, that) sur
as an exchange minister

it will become an even stronger,

tours may be gotten from Bill Bon-
| durant. }

| President Anderson then gave |

force in assisting the college lead-
ership to remain aware of changing
ideas, ambitions, and needs of the
incoming generations of students.

KNOW YOUR COLLEGE:

Are Luring the Elite

Each year Davidson College awards approximately $40,000
scholarships, prizes, and grants-in-aid. Including athletic grants

the figure passes $118,000.

The program is directed toward
entering freshmen, upperclassmen
may be eligible for competitive
scholarships, too. In most cases
selection is based upon ability, and
the amount of need

The most valuable of the scholar-
ships are those made possible by

the George F. Baker Trust of New
York. Davidson was one of six col-|
leges and universities in the United |
States designated in 1948 by the |
Baker Trust to award these scholar-
ships, which may be worth up to,
$5,000 for four years at college.

Since then six other institutions
have been chosen by the trust to
grant the awards. Other Southern
schools offering Baker Seholar- |
ships are the University of the

South and Vanderbilt.

Davidson may award up to eight
Baker scholarships in each class
on,the basis of ability, leadership,
character, and personality, The
scholarships are renewable for the
four years, provided the scholar
continues to demonstrate these
qualities.

Fourteen Baker scholars have
graduated from Davidson, and
twenty-three are now enrolled.
Some of these men did not receive
the scholarships before they en-
tered, but were awarded them upon
the basis of their records at David-
son. Two such awards were made
this year.

The college last year processed

byterian Church of Florence, Ala-
bama, immediately before accept-
ing his pastorate in Charlotte

| Dr. Stoffel is married the
|former Betty Williams of Rich-
mond. They have four children.

The partaking of the sacrament
will be completely voluntary, those
not. wishing to remain will have
an opportunity to leave the sanc-
tuary.

to

DR. &. LEE STOFFEL

NOTICE!

The annual Fall Tap Day of
ODK will be held next Tues-

(Continued on Page Four)

day in Chapel.

|request to the faculty about t

BY JACK TRAWICK

Do our attitudes affect
things we and how we
| them? This is a question which ex
|perimental psychologists have
studied rather vigorously in recent
|years and which has commanded
the interest of students of psycholo
gy.

Experiments in various schools
and laboratories have provided re-
| sults which presumably give an af
| firmative answer to this question
| & study made here at Davidson
llast year treated the subject of
| how attitudes toward the Negro
| influence size perception, with the
|underlying purpose being to de-
ltermine how unconscious factors
| influence our perceptual processes.

An attitude questionnaire was
given to some 200 Davidson stu-
| dents, in order to determine their
' views on the Negro problem. The
‘extreme views on both sides were
| then chosen to participate in the
| experiment. The experimenter then

the
see

see

He was pastor of the First Pres-| his report on the Couneil’s recent | °" thes
he!

= :
Our Attitudes

brought up the possibility of asking organization or individual who may! }undred and fifty performances for| the neighborhood sandlots; later

the faculty to establish a general Present them. Instead such an-) the Diamond Horseshoe and on tour I was a pitcher on what was con-

science course, and also of asking | nouncements are to be presented! with the opera, and is known to} sidered a hot semi-pro team in that

the Library to liberalize its rule on|to the President. of the Student| millions through appearances on neck of the woods, the Brooklyn
Hletting out reserve books. Action | Body who will read them in the Your Show of Shows, Toast of the Kings’ team.”

: Town, The Jackie Gleason Show| After his failure to make the

two matters was delayed | course of the Student Body meet-| oq other radio and television pro-| Dodgers, he turned to singing in

until the next meeting ing on Friday. grams. earnest. During the summer ot

which had nothing. This was done

of small cardboard dises, some of These subjects were then divided

which had Negro faces on them,| into a control group and an expert-
some white faces, and some of| mental group. The control group

His recordings for RCA Victor
range from operatic arias and al-
bums to “Ol’ Man River” and the
famous Yale “Whiffenpoof Song.”

When Toscanini picked Merrill
in 1946 to sing the elder Germont
in his broadcast of La Traviata, he

Prove

| voice and rich bel canto style on
radio and recording, but had never
met him personally. When Merrill

, . arrived to go over the part, the
was required merely to estimate

‘had heard the powerful baritone’s|

1954, after recording an opera in
Rome, Merrill was featured at the
Hollywood Bowl, and with other
Metropolitan Opera stars Mil
waukee’s Washington Park
Commenting on the latter occa
sion, the Milwaukee Journal re
marked, “The chief reason for the
limmense success of the evening
| was Robert Merrill. He provided

‘

| baritone singing such as this com-
| munity has not heard in at least a
quarter of a century. It is simply

by presenting the subjects with the | the size of cardboard discs, where-
dises, one at a time, and having | as the experimental group was re-
them adjust the size of a circle of | quired to estimate the size of actual

Maestro was surprised to see not}
the mature man in his forties whom | é
he had expected, but a youngster in| to™ and it has no equal
his twenties. | world today.”

1 gorgeous voice from top to bot
in the

light on a sereen placed in close |

proximity to the subject until it
was the same size as the dises. The
results obtained showed that the
subjects with an anti-Negro view-
point tended to slightly .ver-esti-
mate the dises with Negro faces,
but not the size of the others.

One of the most well known ex-
periments in this field is one con-
ducted by J. S. Bruner and Cecile
C. Goodman. These two psycholo-
ists experimented with the esti-

‘mation of the size of coins, using

‘had the subjects estimate the size’

approximately the same technique
that was used in the experiment
above.

A total of 20 subjects were used
in the experiment, ten of them
coming from well-to-do families,
ten coming from poor families.

coins. The subjects were required
to estimate the size of each coin

from 1 cent to 50 cent, and the con- |
trol group estimated the size of)

dises which were the exact size of
the coins. All subjects
quired to estimate the size of the
coins with no stimulus (no dise or
coin) present.

were re-|

|

Merrill’s performance not only|
reassured the exacting conductor |
however, but helped to make music |
history, for La Traviata was the|
first of Toseanini’s famous opera
| broadcasts that he was willing to
| release for publication on records.
|In 1954 Toseanini again picked
Merrill for his last opera broadeast |

The results of the experiment | with the NBC Symphony, A Masked
showed that the subjects from | gai.
families with low economic status}

each coin to a much greater de-) sional baseball and was scouted for
gree than did the subjects ‘rom’ the Dodgers, but fate pointed away
well-to-do families, indicating that | from the Ebbets Field diamond to
the value of each coin was higher | the Diamond Horseshoe of the Met.

for the poorer subjects. It is also Merrill himself tells it something}

significant\ that all subjects, rich | jjke this:

. | Born in Brooklyn, Robert Mer-|; _
tended to overestimate the size of | rij] for a time played semi-profes-| ;

and poor alike, over-estimated the |
(Continued on Page Four)

‘

“I was born in Brooklyn, where
every kid is born with a silver

