PAGE FOUR

TRIBUTE TO A JANITOR
ar a
\

Zs

ee 4
ae
¢

=I

at

lsMMMn tin “ ‘ - »

The village is gone, but L. W., his Esquire, and his broom
remain.

BY CHUCK WRIGHT AND loved the village as their home. L.
JIM KUIST W. was a member of the household.
“Hey, man, you got any extra} He was the official alarm clock; a
clothes hanging around” .< . ‘“Joe|conspirator in gayety: the best of
you already slept through two] jokes; confidant in sorrows: and
classes, you better get.out of bed” | guardian of the dresser drawer, As
... “Joe, Joe, don’t hit me, you/long as the spirit of the Village
hit me last week”... “Mrs. Little} shall remain, in the memories of
says you all got to clean this mess} those who lived there. L. W. Nel-
up, and quit writing on those damn] son will stand as a monument to
walls. . .” “I seen you move that|this institution.
dresser over that hole in the wall"| This gay young blade hails from
... “Hey, man, you got any extra! Cornelius, a thriving little. com-
clothes hanging around?..." —| munity a few rods down the road
These are the words of a David-| from the City. Married to his child-
son immortal; he is a part of a| hood sweetheart, at the height of
tradition. One sees him standing} his virility, he is a happy family
majestically, broom in hand, on the} man. He is a pillar ‘of his com-
wooden back porch of a village} munity. Davidson students, how-!
apartment. A generation of David-| ever, know little of L. W. as a.

THE

INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION REPORT:

Thousands of American
Students Study Abroad

medicine, 1,718; theology, 764; so) 72 in Austria, 54 in Italy, 31 in

(Special to. the Davidsonian)
Over 9.000 U. S. students studied

cial sciences, 753; creative arts, 477;

DAVIDSONIAN

France. Mexico received 58 creative

Philanthropic Mee!
Featured by Poems

On November 9th, the Philan-
thropic Society held it's second
meeting. of the present year. The
program consisted of selected
poems written by Jim Armstead,
Harry Antrim, and Andy Watson.

The reading of these poems stim-

abroad during 1954-55, according and natural and physical sciences, arts students. Of 2s students of} ulated a lively discussion among
the natural and physical sciences, tno proup concerning the merits of

to the preliminary returns. released : 415. There was no answer as to
yesterday, of a survey taken by the | field for 1,735 students, or 20.9 per
Institute of International Educa-

tion, L East 67th Street, New York
City.

Initial returns from this first sta-
tistical report on American stu-
dents abroad indicate that 9,262
U, S. citizens studied in 47 foreign
countries and political areas dur-
ing the past academic year. The
survey was limited to students hav-
ing both. U. S. citizenship and
permanent residence in the United
States.

The Institute’s survey, first un-
dertaken as a pilot. project in 1953,

_eent of the first 8,219 reported.

‘ Other subjects studied abroad
were: business administration, 151;
engineering, 105; education, 59;
und agriculture, 21, There were 48
students in all other fields.

' It is interesting to note the coun-
| tries where specific subjects were
pursued. These figures, again,
were prepared from returns on 8,-
219 students, Of the 1,973 liberal
arts students, there were 486 in
Ithe United Kingdom, 435 in Cana-
,da, 211 in Germany, 179 in Mexi-
co, 163 in France, 118 in Spain, 67

was conducted by means of a ques- in Switzerland, 62 in Japan. Of 1.
tionnaire sent to 1.000 institutions! 718 students of medicine, there
of higher education in 74 foreign, were 490 in Switzerland, 342 in
countries and political areas. Re- Italy, 332 in Canada, 125 in the
plies have been received from aj Netherlands, 103 in Belgium. 78 in

total of 836 institutions or 83.6 per| Germany, 58 in the United King-

cent of those polied: 379 institu-
tions reported 9.262 U. S. students
enrolled; 457 reported no U, S.
students. A final report on U. S.
students abroad will be included
in the 1956 Open Doors, the. Insti-
tute’s annual census report on
foreign students, scholars and doc-
tors in the United States.

Where did the American stu-
dents study? Almost 59 per cent
(5,461) of those reported were en-
rolled in European schools; 15 per
cent were in Mexico; and 14.8 per

dom. '

Of 764 theology students. there
were 422 in Italy, 145 in Canada,
84 in the United Kingdom. Of the
753 students of the social sciences,
204 were in Mexico, 174 in the
United Kingdom, 107 in Switzer-
land, 70 in France. Of 477 students
in the creative arts, 399 were in
Europe. There were 115 in Ger-
many, 80 in the United Kingdom,

there were 121 in Canada, 106 in

contemporary poctry. One of Mr.

the United Kingdom, 40 in Ger- Armstead’s :
; poems was singled out
many, 27 in Japan, Of 151 stu- by the group for its outstanding

dents of business administration,
84 were in Mexico, 38 in Canada,

qualities.
After this discussion, the pro-

18 in the Philippines. Of 105 engi- gram chairman brought before the

neering students, 55 were in Cana-
da.

tn addition to tabutating returns
by country of assignment and field
of study, the Institufe’s preliminary
report on U. S. students indicates
by country the number of institu-
tions polled and the number of re-
plies received. it is evident from
these figures that the preliminary
returns cannot give « complete

picture of Americans studying
abroad,
Of 578 institutions polled in

Europe, 523 have replied. Of 133
institutions in the Far East, 93 re-
plied. Of 89 institutions in South
America, 47 replied. Of 68 institu-
tions in Canada, 62 replied. Of 45
institutions in the Near and Middle
East, 37 replied. Of 30 institutions
ia Mexico, 25 replied. Of 22 in
Africa, 18 replied. Of 9 in the
Caribbean, 8 replied. Of 9 in Cen-
tral America, 5 replied, All 17 in-
stitutions polled in Oceania have
replied.

sonians in their college careers| family man, To them he is recog-! cent in Canada. Four countries re-

tu Society fo Meet
In Union Monday

Mediterranean Problems
Discussed at IRC Meet

The last meeting of the International Relations Club met
in the Green Room of the College Union. The program for this

nized as one of the rising young ported over 1,000 U. S. citizens in|
janitors on the Davidson campus, their institutions of higher educa-|
known for, his wit and beaming! tion: Mexico, 1,395; Canada, 1,374;
smile, He has been taken-in as an: Italy, 1,084, and the United King-
honorary member of a number of dom, 1,009,

the campus social fraternities, his

The Eumanean Literary Society} Presence being most conspicious at
will hold a tradition-breaking meet. | the conclusion of the spring semes-
ing this Monday might, November | fer along the many. beach resorts!
21. It will commence promptly at|SPrawling the Carolina coast.
7:00 p. m, in the Green Room of the} Today L. W. sweeps his beat
Union rather than at the usual time| along the second floor aisle and
and place. These changes are de-| recesses of Belk dormitory. This is
signed to prevent the programj|a new environment for him, as it
from cutting into both ends ofjis for those who moved with him
the members’ evening. from the shady lawns and pic-
Dr. Chalmers Davidson will read} turesque little rooms of the village
the secofid section of his epistolary | opposite the colloge; to these yawn-
novel, Alenda Lux. Last spring Dr.| ing gaping painted walls and long
Davidson presented to the Society | corridors, this mammoth brick and
the first. set of letters of the} mortar edifice that stands to the!
Pharrs, a mythical five-generation) ingenuity of our administration.
Davidson family. The second gen-| Undoubtedly he yearns for ‘the
eration story is closely tied in with] good ole’ days. But the good ole’
Davidson during the War Between/ days, and pleasant memories, and
the States.

The reading will be divided into|times. be submerged. as creative | 19 in New Zealand,

two parts by a coffee break, Quo-} independence is submerged to the

tations and business will be dis-] martinet authority of modern edu.| dents study abroad? Of the

pensed with for the Monday night | cational technicians,
meeting to make possible this in-} Here’s to L. W.!
teresting and significant program.

Report Presented

(Continued From Pege One)
come in the form of housing, etc.
To complete the list, lawyers’ in-
come increased an average of 99
per cent and dentists’, 153 per
cent.

How do Davidson's faculty sal-
aries rate with those of other
schools? Academically, Davidson is-
regarded as being comparable to
such schools as Amherst, Bowdoin,
Haverford, Swarthmore, Wesleyan,
and Williams. But the top faculty
salary in 1953-54 at these six other
small institutions ranged from $8,-
280 to $11,000 whereas Davidson’s

eh

Grigg Fountain Slated |
To Perform Monday

The Charlotte chapter of the

European countries. in addition! meeting dealt with problems around the Mediterranean area:
to Italy and the United Kingdom, | the North African situation; the Cyprus problem; and the

where over 100 U. S. students en- . : .
rolled were: Germany, 834; France. 'Tsraeti-Egyptian crisis.
805; Switzerland, 759: the Nether-, Boyce Martin gave a survey of
lands, 200; Spain. 165: Austria, lthe situation existing in French |
158: and Belgium. 134. | North Africa. He traced the history
There were 624 students in the,of the three areas of Algeria,
Far East, 491 of these in the Philip- French Morocco, and Tunisia, em-
pines and 112 in Japan. THe Near, phasizing the French policy in each
East-received 141—81 in Israel and ‘case. and recounting the events
54 in Lebanon. In the Western! Which have taker’ place there in
Hemisphere, in addition to Mexico | rotrn months.
and Canada, there were 51 students| Next, John Trask gave an ac-
enrolled in Caribbean countries and, count of the crisis existing between
100 in South America. Of this last j.the British government and the
number, 85 went to Peru. {island of Cyprus. Cyprus, a British
There were 31 students in Africa crown colony off the coast of Tur-
—18 in Egypt and 9 in the Union key, has for over a hundred years
of South Africa. Oceania received been demanding what it calls

where quiet tradition must some-| 85 students—66 in Australia and enosis, which means union with

the motherland.

What subjects did the U. S. stu. The British desire to hold their
first, Mediterranean outpost for several
8,219 students reported, 74.2 per reasons, including using it as a
cent pursued studies in six aca-, military base, which has become

| demic fields: ftiberal arts, 1,973; more significant since Britain has

recently evacuated the Suez Canal
Zone. Cyprus, on the other hand.
desires union with Greece since
80 percent of the population of the
island is Greek, the people having
the same language and the same
religion as the Greeks. on the con-
tinent.

Tom Tennent then gave the third
part of the program which dealt
with the clashes between Egypt
and Israel. He pointed out that the
main cause of the tension was the
Gaza strip, a narrow strip of land
between the two countries.

He then discussed details of the
clashes, showing how much of the
incidents were based on poor
Egyptian-Jewish relations, and how
the two countries of Egypt and
Israel actually had much in com-
mon.

SUNDAY NIGHT "AT HOME” SCHEDULE
OF PROFESSORS FOR STUDENT VISITING

was $6,350. This of course puts
Davidson in an inferior position
in the market for teachers.

In North Carolina Davidson is no

better off. Duke pays a top faculty
salary of $10,500. A Professor's
salary at the three divisions of the
University of North Carolina be-
gins at about $6,500 and goes on
up from there. With the additional
$150 yearly increase last spring Da-
vidson's tep faculty salary became
$6,500. In the state as a whole
Davidson's faculty salaries are
comparable to those of such schools
as East Carolina, Shaw, and Lenoir
Rhyne,

the public without charge.

JACKSON

Main Street

PARKER-

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville

Creamery, Inc. i] 118 West Trade Street

DEPENDABLE DRY CLEANING

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

Spencer

CLEANERS

American. Guild of Organists will
present Grigg Fountain. assistant Ist Sunday and Sunday ard Sunday “th Sunday
professor of organ at the Oberlin Brown, C. K. Beaty Abernethy Bernard
Conservatory of Music, in a lecture- Cavano, A. T. Bevan Bailey Causey
recital entitled “Examples of the| Eberhardt Brown, E. E Brown, L. R. Ficklen
Chorale-Prelude in Each Century” Labban Crawford Bryan Ford
on Monday evening, November 21. McCutchan Cumming Daggy Fulcher
at 8:15 in the Davidson College | MeGeachy Goldiere Davidson Gallent
Presbyterian Church in Davidson. Monahan Griffin Jackson Houchens
Prof. Fountain wilt play exam- Puckett Martin Jung Johnston
ples of the chorale-prelude litera- Reid McGavock Lilly Maloney
ture ranging from 16th century Sapp Morton : Logan Marrotte
compositions by Scheidt to con- Scott Parker McAfee McGill
temporary works in this form by Thompson, B. D. Purcell! Mebane McKee
American and German composers. Watts Satterfield Payne Thies
He will also lecture briefly on this West Schenck Pietenpol Thompson, J. W
form of organ music, on which he Woods Smith Plott Trakas -_
is a widely recognized authority. White Terry (at Goldiere’s) Ratliff Tyson
The lecture-recital is open to Van Kauren Whittle, Workman

THE CONNOISSEUR

A Place of fine Foods for any taste

in Eating — Specializing in Steok,

Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.

Davidson

SPECIAL MENU

THURSDAYS — FRIDAYS — SATURDAYS

GARDNER

ALL THE FISH OR CHICKEN YOU CAN EAT

$1 50 Including Tax

| CHILDREN ACCOMPANIED BY THEIR PARENTS
55c, Tax Included

Fried Chicken — French Fries — Slew
Hot Rolls — Iced Tea or Coffee

iced Tea

Mooresville, N. C.

Phone ED. 2-8257

Fish — French Fries — Slaw —Hush Puppies

or Coffee
Phone 3-286!

group the motion, “that each mem-
ber of Philanthropic Literary So-
ciety be required to submit some
form of creative writing during the
year in order to retain membership
in the Society.”

Later in the evening ® resolu.
tion stating, “that the Philanthropic
Literary Society hereby publishes
and makes known it’s disapproval
of the publication entitled, THE
INTERCOLLEGIAN, holding the
views of that publicetion to be un-
sound in reason and dangerous in
implication,” was brought before
the group.

This resolution was then dis-
cussed but voting was postponed
until the next meeting to allow
more members to express their
views upon the resolution, A de-
bate concerning this resolution
will form a part of the program of
the meeting to be held Monday,
November 21st, at 8:30 p. m. in
Phi Hall.

The meeting was closed with a
few words, by the society’s presi-
dent Dick Morehead, concerning
the goals and aspirations of the
Society for the present year.

Those goals being, to promote
more creative writing on the cam-
pus in general, and to create in-
telligent analysis and critical think-
ing on the part of the members
of the Society concerning present
social and economic problems that
confront our Society today.

ROTC BAND, COLOR
GUARD TO MARCH AT
KANNAPOLIS NOV. 29

The Davidson College ROTC
Band and the Davidson College
ROTC Color Guard will take part in
the annual Kannapolis Christmas
Parade which will be held this year
on Tuesday, November 29, at 4:30
p. m.

The Davidson ROTC Band will
march in the parade under the
command of Cadet First Lieutenant
Doug Andrews of DeFuniak
Springs, Florida. The Band this
year is composed of forty-seven
cadets from the Davidson ROTC
Regiment.

RED & BLACK MASQUERS

WED. & THURS.
NOV. 30 and DEC. |
8:15 P. M.

Chambers Auditorium

Admission Fifty Cents

ir
i,

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 195:

Wofford Terriers

(Contived From Page Three)

there on Tue cats were behind in
the scoring.

They were not behind in the
scrapping, however. In the first
quarter the Cat offense drove to
the Wofford 37 and nearly scored.
In the second quarter they again
drove to the Wofford eight, but the
Terrier defense tightened. The stub-
born line from South Carolina was
not to be run over.

The. second Wofford score came
on a pass play that the Davidson
fans disputed with the referee by
moaning over the ruling. Burns
dropped a pass from Jones but fell
on it. The referce ruled the pass
complete; the fumble recovered
thus giving the Terriers the ball
on the Cat 32. The score came a
few plays later on another pitch-out
from Jones, this time to B. B,
Stevens who covered three yards
around right end to score.

The Wildcat touchdown drive was
started early in the fourth quarter
from its own 22. Dyke Little’s pass-
ing to Bill Gramley was clicking
with rapid precision. The Cat’s
drove for four first downs in a
row with Don Comer going over
from the three. Fagg’s conversion
attempt failed.

The stands became intensely ex-
cited at this time and were yelling
for another Wildcat touchdown as
the score was 14-9. But the Spartan-
burg Terriers were as riled up as
anyone. Starting from their own 25
they marched all the way to pay-
dirt on the same tactics they had
been using all afternoon; namely;
an option and a couple of good
crossbuck plays. This time DePrete
went around right end to score.
Burns made his third extra point.

The absence of Tom Newton and
Jim Patterson at ends hurt the Cat
team. They missed Don McRee also.
Standing out for the Wildcats, how-
ever, were Don Campbell in par-
ticular, Lyle Lewellyn, David Fagg,
Bill Gramley, Ken Conger, Dyke
Little, and ‘Dick Belton. The band,

SS

C  cenonanae nen anememeathtll

PR CRORNTS 00.8¢5.00mp Fee BCA ETE
ARRAS S (Tr FET sence NRA

4

Complete selections from 12 new
RCA Victor Albums. Tunes by
Perry Como, Eartha Kitt, Sauter-
Finegan Orchestra and many more.
On 12” Long Play (SPL-12-13), or
3-record 46 EP (SPC-7-13)

t

Anniversary Release
$3.98 values... youra for only

(Long Play or 45 EP)
Nationally Advertised Price

Nee ea Rand

Harriers Third

(Continued From Page Three)
Duke did not get a complete team
across the finishing line. Davidson
collected 78 points, Wake Forest
got 125, On the Wildcat team Bill
Jackson also ran a fine race, though
running unattached this time and.
therefore not counting for the team
score.

The climax of this year’s cross
country season, the Conference
Meet, takes place at Davidson's
own course Monday at 11:30 A. M.
Seven teams (VMI, VPI, W&M.
W&L, West Virginia, Richmond,
and Davidson) will run the race,
which will have about 60 contend.
ers. The Keydets of VMI will de.
fend their crown from last year,
and William & Mary will also have
a strong team. Davidson may very
well give them a real fight; the run-
ners are from one to two minutes
faster now than in the meet with
W&M and State 3 weeks ago. Dave
Pitkethly, VMI (from San Fran.
cisco, Cal.) is the individual fav.
orite. Others that will be strony
candidates are Bob DeTombe,
W&M, 1953’s champ Cascio of West
Virginia, and Davidson’s own Pete
Ashcraft.

too, spelled out D-O-L-E in honor
of Davidson's head coach and
played “For He’s A Jolly Good Fel-
low.” Tribute was also paid to the
Wildcat seniors who played their
last home game.

For ‘Wofford Charlie

Jones,

Frank DePrete, Weyland Burns and
B. B. Stevens were the standouts.

STONESTREET'S
CAFE

Open Seven Days

a Week
PHONE 3-6241

450 S. Main Mooresville

NOW! Enjoy two highlight Albums trom

RCA VICTOR'S
“FABULOUS FIFTY-FIFTH”

98" each

= — era WE

Twelve excerpts from RCA Victor's
newest, most exciting Classical
Albums. Interpreted by Toscanini,
Stokowski, Heifetz, Munch, Mon-
teux, and many others. Available
on 12” Long Play (SRL-12-hgp 5

Recorded in Brilliant “New Orthophonic” High Fidelity Sound

“Opposite ivey’s Fifth St. Entrance”

126 WEST FIFTH STREET

CHARLOTTE

New ARROW Gabanaro...
styled for campus wear

A campus style survey produced this
smart medium-spread collar—just the
neat yet casual shirt you'll want for class
or informal dates. It’s made in your
exact collar size and sleeve length
too—for perfect fit.

Smart new colors, with matching pearl
hister buttons, saddle stitching around.
collar edge, button thru pockets.

In rayon gabardine, “Sanforset”, $5.95.

<7 m7 RROW->
CASUAL WEAR
first in fashion

