The athletic office
has released the total
of the records com-
piled by Davidson
teams this year, and
Coach Whittle boasts
that it is the finest
# year-round showing in
the history of Davidson
: athletics. In all games
played, both in and out
of the Southern Con-
ference, the Cat teams
won sixty-seven con-
tests while losing only
thirty-nine. This means
that ap prox imately
65% of all games
played were won. In conference competition, the record was
60% of the games won, as twenty-eight contests were won and
seventeen lost. The only team to go through its regular season
undefeated was the track squad, which had an overall record
of 7-0 and a conference record of 5-0. The complete record of
all teams follows:

ALL GAMES CONFERENCE
Won Lest Won Lost
Football 6 3 2 1
Cross Country... 4 2 3 1
Basketball... «8 12 4 6
Swimming . - 7 2 2 1
Wrestling . 2 8 0 4
Baseball... 12 4 5 2
Track _. — F 0 4 0
Golf ___._ _.. 8 3 3 2
Tennis _. _... ss q 5 0
TOTAL _... 67 39 28 1?

Especially successful this year were the spring sports
teams, all of which compiled winning records. The baseball
team had its best season on record and still has a slight cHance
of ending on top of the conference, should West Virginia and
The Citadel drop a game this week. The tennis team has just
won its second successive conference crown, and the golf team
last weekend took fourth place in the conference matches at
Danville, Virginia. The track team, one of two undefeated
track teams in the history of the College, is one of the favorites
in the meeting being held at VMI this weekend. The men who
make up these teams deserve a great deal of credit for their
splendid work.

Speaking of the personnel of these teams, there is one
fact which must certainly be clear to anyone observing the
Davidson sports scene. This fact is that a large measure of the
success of two of these teams is due to boys who are here at
Davidson on football scholarships. On the baseball team,
there are eight boys holding football scholarships: Don McRee,
Dick Belton, Dyke Little, Don Comer, Bill Rowland, Jim West,
Ollie Harris, and Bob Campbell. The value of these boys to
the squad can be understood when one notes that seven of
the starters in the first game against Furman last week were
football scholarship men.

The track team also benefits from the versatility of the
football players, for in six meets the combination of Billy
Gramley, Harley Smith, Don Campbell, Arthur Lynn and Dale
Gramley accounted for 156 points, an average of 26 points
per meet. This is enough to mean the difference between
victory and defeat in several meets.

These facts alone seem to me enough to justify the
granting of football scholarships, for numerous other sports
benefit by the presence of football scholarship holders on
campus.

SS TS © eS SSS SSS SS

TRACK TEAM AT
CONFERENCE MEET

Che Babidsonian

ALENDA LURK UB! ORTA LIBERTAS

1F TROPHY HINGES

ON TENNIS RESULTS |

Po

FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1955

PAGE THREE

Netters Are Conference Champions

Undefeated Tracksters In $C Meet At W&M

Cats Expect Toughest
Opposition From V.M.I.

he high-flying thinclads departed yesterday morning for
Williamsburg, Virginia, and the two-day Southern Conference
Track Meet in progress today and tomorrow at the College of
William & Mary. The Cats enter the meet with a perfect record
for the season and are one of the favored teams, as they. field

Phil Koonce, who has yet to be Baseballers Mee! _
Baseballers M
honors in the 100-yd. and 220-yd. ase a ers ce
Phil in the 60-yd. dash in the in-|coach Chuck Clements and the
the broad jump. Harley Smith is! smith, the Davidson baseball team

a well-balanced squad. Coach Whittle is able for the first time
pushed to‘his limit this season, has

dashes from Fillman of William V.M.I. Here Today
door meet. Koonce is also counted | giajq leadership of Capt, “Ish”
defending champion in the javelin

in many years to enter a strong contestant in every event.
an excellent chance to grab the
& Mary, who barely edged out) Under the able direction of
on for an expert performance in| Bonnett, Bill Rowland and Johnny
and should repeat, while Bill

closed a ‘successful 1955 season
against VMI on the local diamond

Gramley is expected to place high today. With Johnny Smith carry-

in the shot and perhaps to take
the discus. Pete Ashcraft
definitely favored in the mile and
two-mile events, dnd, barring the

ing a 5-1 record into the contest,

iS! the local line-up found him on the

mound, Donnie McRee behind the
plate, Dyke Little on first, Buzz

unexpected, will return with two Hope at second, Billy Morris at

first place medals. Don Campbell

short-stop, Don Comer at third,

is the number one Cat entry in| Jim west in left, Bill Rowland in

the hurdles, and with the competi- center, and Ollie Harris in right
tion so close he should be able to field.
lower his best time to date in the A win in the final game would
highs of 15.2. Frank Mitchener in give the Davidson squad a 13 won
the 440-yd dash will be aiming at] nq 4 lost record. This would be
the school record when he takes to/ the finest record in baseball since
the cinders, and he is expected to 1933, when the locals also posted
lower considerably his time of 51), 13.4 record. The team is one of
seconds. Snyder Garrison will bejthe pest Davidson has ever had,
competing in the 880-yd run andiang shows the great work Cle-
has hopes of. getting below the} nents has done in the three years
two-minute mark. With strong en-| ne has been with the Wildcat ath-
tries in each event and excellent letic staff.
men behind the front line Per-| Three Davidson players were
formers, the Cats will certainly| wearing the local colors for the
make a very commendable show-|j5:¢ time, as graduation will find
ing and may come away with first Ish Bennett, Bill Rowland, and
place honors. Johnny Smith among the departing
ranks. All three closed out fine
NOTICE seasons. Clements spoke highly of
In elections held recently by the|/his three senior captains, saying
wrestling team, Reitze] Snider was| that they furnished leadership and
elected captain for the coming] drive for his young team.
season. Snider performed in the| Depending on the final records
137-Ib class. this past season but is| of other Southern Conference foes,
expected to be in the 147-lb. di-| Davidson has a strong chance of
vision next year. (Continued on Page Four)

SWords sure qothug around. campus:

like a cigarette should!

* TS GOT
+. "REAL FLAVOR!

® College smokers are welcoming Winston

AND
DRAWS SO
EASY!

Along with finer flavor, Winston also
like a long-lost friend! They found flavor’ brings you a finer filter. The exclusive

in a filter cigarette —full, rich, tobacco Winston filter works so effectively, yet .

flavor — when Winston came along!

Siche WINSTON the ¢2sy-draming 4ilter ciganette!

lets the flavor come right through to you.

Wildcat Of The Week |Clark Captures Singles

This week Pete Ashcraft of Am-
herst, Mass., is presented as Wild-
éat of the Week for his outstand-
ing performance in breaking the
school record for the mile run. last
Saturday. His time was 4:20.9, the

best in the Southern Conference |

this year, and it should be good
enough to take the championship
this weekend.

Pete, a member of Kappa Sigma

fraternity and an economics major, | |.

is planning to enter business after
his graduation from Davidson. He
has, been running the mile since
his junior year in high school, and
during his senior year Pete did
not lose a race. At present, he is
the holder of the Southern Con-
ference indoor mile and two-mile
championships, which he won last
winter, and is favored to repeat
in the outdoor meet tomorrow at
William & Mary. The entire stu-
dent body certainly wishes Pete
the best of luck in his quest for
the first place laurels tomorrow.

SPEs Are Champions
In Greek Softball

The sterling pitching of Bob
Stevenson and dependable hitting
by the entire squad was enough to
carry the SPEs to the crown in In-
terfraternity softball, as they
closed out their season with an
‘11-7 conquest of the Phi Delts
Monday. The final win brought
their season's record to ten wins
against only one loss to place them
two games above the second place
Sigma Chis. The Phi Delts in
third place trailed the Sigma Chis
by one game.

The competition for the Inter-
fraternity Trophy has not been de-
cided as yet, for the Kappa Sigs
and Phi Delts are battling all the
way to the wire. The final results
will depend on how the tennis com-
petition ends, and it should be
completed this week. By virtue of
the softball records, the Phis
pulled even with their next door
neighbors, after trailing all year.

~

NSTON tastes. good-

Wins, |

fez,
Fasten d i
ce I

/

~ A

R. 3. ABVNOLOS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM NAc

is &
fe

PETE ASHCRAFT

SUITS

PANTS
Sport Shirts 29-49 195-29
Walking Shorts 4°5-95°
Swim Suits 1.00 off each suit
SOX GROUP 48c a pair

... All Sales Cash...

ALTERATIONS EXTRA

Wilson -Wright’s Inc.

“Collegiate Fashions”

~ —|From Teammate Keesler

By J. JOHNSON

Corky Clark won the Southern Conference singles tennis
championship from teammate Lacy Keesler in straight sets on
Davidson's courts May 7th. Playing near perfection tennis,
Corky placed his shots well as he reversed the outcome of last
years tournament. After playing behind Lacy for six years,
two in high school and four in college, Corky capitalized on
his last chance to defeat Lacy in collegiate competition, up-
setting the first seeded Keesler, 6-2, 6-4, 6-3.

Both players exhibited excellent —
shots, which were frequently ap-| play, the calm Davidson team took
plauded by the gallery; but Corky’s | the first set without difficulty. They
amazing consistency made him the | ran into stronger opposition in the

victor. He won the first set easily; | second, largely due to Phillips’ hard
and, although he trailed 3-4 in the serves and volleys at crucial mo-

second and 1-3 in the third, he
pulled ahead on both occasions.

Using deep shots, he kept his op-
ponent in the back court and was
in control of the action most of
the time.

Keesler and Clark teamed’ to-
gether to win the doubles title,
6-1, 10-8, 7-5, from Ed Phillips and
Tom Reel of William and Mary.
Still warmed up from the singles

ments. Early in the third set,
Corky and Lacy broke service only
to lose their own service in the
next game; however, they broke
through ‘again and took the set in
one extra game.

Davidson also won the team
championship for the second suc-
cessive year, with 25 points, to
make a clean sweep of the three

(Continued on Page Four)

BEGINS MONDAY, MAY 16
Stock Up For Summer

g ™

j—_ i= 8

Now

24.95
34.95

395 . 1995

Were

39.00
49.30

595 . 1495

995 . 595

