Rare indeed is the
American person who
exhibits no interest in
any form of athletic
activity. Most all of us
are attracted to one or
many sports, depend-
, ing on our time and
tastes. Active partici-
pation at one stage of
life or another has
given knowledge of the
fundamentals and with
knowledge, a greater
enjoyment and appre-
ciation of any sport.

~ From the mutual un-
By LEON HOWELL derstanding of a sport
in particular has grown a jargon peculiar to the activity.
However, some words have been applied to sports in general
and even become an integral part of our American language.

ALUMNI-VARSITY
GAME SET FOR NEXT WEEK

Che Dabidsontan | s=-=

ALENDA LURK OB) GRA LIBERTAS

PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1955

Southern Swim Finals Here Tomorrow

Wrestlers Prepare
For Southern Meet

By CHARLES McGIRT
The Wildcat 'S4’5S wrestling
season is drawing to a close with
only one match and the Southern
Conference Tournament left. The
final match will be with VPI there
Saturday, February 26. The tourna-
ment will be held March 4th and

Sth at Washington and Lee.
VPI, which will be in the Satur-

Cats Hit W&L Tonight;
GW Seen as Tourney Foe

By BUNNY PERKINSON

Davidson’s Wildcats wind up their 1954-55 basketball
season on the road this weekend, playing Washington and
Lee tonight and V.M.I. tomorrow night. Both games will be
played at Lexington, Virginia. The Cats hold a win over the
Cadets, but the Generals of W.&L. boast a somewhat one-

Keydets Remain Heavy Favorites;
Meet Sets New Record For Entries

By NED PAYNE

The 1955 championship swimming meet of the Southern Conference, held here at
Davidson for the first time, enters into its third and final day tomorrow with finals in
the swimming events. Full teams representing V.P.I., V.M.L, Washington and Lee, West Vir-
ginia University, and Davidson College are entered in the meet, which makes the 1955
championships the largest on record.

One such word is class. It can be used to describe a base-
ball player or a midwinters date. Employed too frequently,
it will perplex more than it will illuminate. Deeds and feats
that exalt and yet defy explanation are lumped together and
called class. Many variations arise in attempting to express it.
Class in automobiles to a certain segment of Americans is
depicted by the English lines, while a souped up ’89 Ford

with flying fox tails and sans fenders constitute class for an-
other portion.

Within the spectrum of class are dignity, courage,
decency, control and poise in crisis. Its elements so permeate
a man that he will battle back against hopeless odds, accept
victory and defeat without a marked personality alteration,
and it can go to such extremes that tough pro football players
will burst into tears in defeat.

Sportswriters employ it when they run out of praise or
are at a loss to express themselves. In some cases, like the
Golden Gloves bouts, it can give the loser more prestige than
the winner. Many times it, as love, is beyond description.

Most important is that its scope is far broader than mere
fundamental ability. All that we respect in the behavior of
man is within it. Primarily, it appeals to use became it is the
way we desire to react in times of stress and elation. Back-
ground and social position have nothing to do with it.

When we are brought into contact with class, it is recog-
nized, whether it be in professional boxing, in a professor on
the campus, or in sandlot football. Joe Dimaggio, with his
grace and talent, had it in abundance. Ben Hogan, perhaps
somewhat selfish with it, displayed it in his comeback from
a crippling car wreck. Although the epitome of ignorance
and innocence, illiterate Beau Jack had class.

In professional ball those that seemingly give more than
they have contain it-and are identified as “old pros.” At
Davidson we catch glimpses in miniature and recognize it. In
our case here a type of general class enshrouds the whole

Kappa Sigs Drop
Sigma Chis by 10
To Take Greek Lead

By JOHN JOHNSON

The Kappa Sigs took over undis-
puted lead of the interfraternity
basektball loop Tuesday night as
they bumped the Sigma Chis into
second place. Although the Kappa
Sigs led by a safe margin through
most of the game, the green-
shirted boys had to fight off a
final surge of the white-shirted
Sigma Chis. Trailing by three
points with only a few minutes
remaining, the Sigma Chis missed
two foul shots. The Kappa Sigs,
capitalizing on this break, sank
several fast shots, and won the
game by a final margin of ten
points. Three Kappa Sigs broke
into the double figures: Brewer
had 14 points, Clark had 14, and
Feeney had 18. Anderson with 13
was high man for the loosers.

Also in Tuesday night’s court
action, the Phi Delts outscored the
SPEs, 42 to 26, in a friendly game
of football. John Thorpe let the

Defending champions VMI loom
as the overwhelming favorites to
capture the conference crown as
the finals approach, but they are
finding strong competition from
the Wildcats of Davidson College,
and the Gobblers of Virginia Tech,
the Generals of Washington and
Lee, and the Mountaineers from
West Virginia. During the confer-
ence meet in 1954, VMI swept all
firsts and walked off with every-
thing but the VPI pool. VMI ran
up a total of 178 points to 29
points for the second place team.

VMI has four winning swimmers
returning from last year’s confer-
ence meet. They are: Boxey—win-
ner of 50 and 100 yard sprints;
Hoyt—winner of 100 and 200 yard
backstroke; Van Fossen—winner
of the 1500 meters, 440, and 220:
Ridgley—winner in diving.

Of the over 80 entries, David-
son College has Ed Spier, Tom
Rivers, John Winfrey, and Staf-
ford Query participating in the
sprints. Al Ormond, Alex Shep-
hard, Bill Carrell, Curt Ormond,
Jim Travis, John Edwards, Frank
Kiker, Larry Parrott Bob Oliver
Chuck Blake, and Charles Stowe
are entered in the distances. Basil
Sharp, Curt Ormond, Jeff Smith,
and Roger Bates are entered in
the diving events. Davidson man-
agers, Carl Bitten, Fred Brandt

IFC TRACK MEET

TO BE HELD HERE
ON MARCH 9 & 10

Coach Pete Whittle announced

fraternity track meet will be held

yd. dash, 220 yd. dash, low hurdles,
shot, discus, and broad jump. On
Thursday, the finals in these
events will be held, and finals
will also be held in the 440 -y¢.
dash, 660 yd. run, 3-4 mile run,
high jump, and 1-2 mile relay.

Each fraternity may enter two
men jn each event. Men with track
letters or numerals are ineligible
as are any who have scored 5 or
more points in _ inter-collegiate
track competition. Cross-country
men who won letters or numerals
are ineligible in the running
events.

In the Southern Conference In-
door Meet last week, Davidson
finished third with 20 points.
VMI won the meet with 56 and
19-20 points, while VPI was
second with 27 and 3-20 points.

this week that the annual Inter.

on March 9 and 10. On Wednesday
(9), the preliminary trials will be
held in the following events: 100

day contest as well as the tourne-
ment, is undefeated this season.
Last week they beat Washington
and Lee, 38-0.‘ Washington ‘and Lee
beat Davidson, 24-10, but Davidson
is expected to make a better show-
ing against VPI than did Wash-
ington and Lee. From all indica-
tions, VPI will undoubtedly come
out on top in the tournament.
West Virginia has a good team
this year and will probably be
close behind VPI for a second
place. From second place down it's
no telling how tle schools will
fill in. Davidson, which has two
wins and five losses at the present,
had three boys in the last year’s
finals. Coach Parker commented,
“I don’t guess we will do as well
this year, but we will make a
good showing.”

Captain John Buxton is the only
senior on this year’s varsity team.
Buxton has had an outstanding
record through the four years that
he has been a varsity wrestler. For
the past two years, he has been
captain of the matmen and before
that he was one of Davidson’s most
outstanding wrestlers.

in the coming tournament play,
Coach Miller will have to rely on
a new combination minus Hobby
Cobb and Mike Martin, both of
whom are out with injuries. Cobb
suffered a broken finger and Mar-
tin an injured leg in recent work-
outs, so the Cats enter their final
games greatly hampered, to say
the very least.

When the tournament opens
next Thursday, it is almost certain
that George Washington,
team in the nation, will be the
team Davidson will play in the
opening round. The Colonials are
firmly set in second place, while
the Cats are in seventh. The
chances are pretty good that the
teams will finish in these positions.
If so, Davidson will hit G.W.—
probably on Thursday afternoon.
Despite Cobb and Martin’s being
on the sidelines, the Cats defeated
Catawba College in an overtime
game by the score of 72 to 70 last
Monday in the final home game of
the season. Ray Harding paced the

THE DAVIDSON STUDENTS PICK ‘EM

Lyle Llewellyn won last week’s “Pick the winner’ contest as he picked 13 winners in
15 attempts. Murray Page was runner-up, missing only four guesses.

tenth

sided victory over the Wildcat five.
In these two games, as well as

scoring for both teams with 28

points, hitting 10 of 18 field goal
attempts, or 56 per cent. Ish Ben-
nett played an outstanding floor |
game while bucketing 16 points,
and Dave “Pappy” Fowle followed
close behind with 11 points. Both
Ish and Pappy had five field goals. .
The leader for Catawba was Jack
Lyndon with 20 points, followed by
Summy and Cline, each of whom

dumped in 17 points.

The game was close all the way,
and Catawba held a two-point ad-
vantage at the half, 32 to 30. How-
ever, midway in the second half
the Cats‘took the lead briefly, and
then it was nip-’n-tuck the rest of
the way. At the end of the regula-
time time the score read 63 to
63, so the five-minute overtime
period began. During the over-
time, all Davidson scoring was
done by Bennett and Harding, with
four and five points respectively.

Last Thursday, February 17, the
Cats journeyed to Greenville, S. C.,

(Continued On Page Six)

group of athletes, who are sacrificing for love of their sport.| pi;. with 10 points, followed close-| and Dick Morehesd, are serving| Pete Asheraft won the one and two. Cart Jim Bun Dyke Al
ly by Sanders with 9. The Pikas|as official scorers for the meet.) mile runs, Phil Koonce was second Lines
For the play ers and the spectators alike, class demands, retained their claim to the number| Outstanding men besides thejin the 60-yd dash, Jack Huffaker Jackson Ensign Hope — Mey
: P 1-| was second in the jump, Ros- e Ke en
that sports be viewed not alone as a game, but also as a lesson} two position by downing the Phi| Davidson and VPI swimmers a d in the high jump, Ros-| kentucky over Alabama Kentucky Kentucky ntucky Kentucky
in life. Sportsmanship and working together as a team have|Gams, 38 to 21. Massey sank six|ready mentioned include: LaFol-| well Mallory was fourth in the} nuke over North Carolina Duke North Caro. Duke Duke
valuable effects on those involved. Moreover, instruction in| field goals for 12 points as the lett of WVU: Fox, Guenther and fatehal 4 “e me rely heres N. C. State over Geo. Wash. State State Geo. Wash. | State
Heipation Pecoming men can be garnered from par- ve .ers. Koonce had seven feld| James, Grossman, Robinson and| Davidson. cindermen travel .to| Wunels over Ohio State Minn, [Minn Minn Minn.
. ; ' ; innesota o . . .
ticipation. goals for an even 14 points. Gill of VPI. chapel mt for the ACC Invita-| Richmond over William & Mary Richmond Richmond Richmond Richmond
. , .]t eet.

Coaches display it when the value of the player’s health, wares from Wednesday's games ly planned te cater » full ane = - Villanova over Seton Hall Villanova rest Villanove rest Villanova rest Villanova rest
as well as mental attitude, is placed above victory. The coach Club 27| 725: unable to participate because|ship for the last several years.| Virginia over Washington & Lee | Virginia Virginia Virginia Virginia
who sees a careless blunder lose a game and is still able to|SAE 57 - Campus KA a of the ilness of five of its key|They have been swimming a very| Wake Forest over Clemson Wake Forest | Wake Forest | Wake Forest | Wake Forest
accept blame for the defeat without voicing his emotion has it. poi n Sig 45 Pi Kapp 43) men. abbreviated schedule. Duquesne over Dayton Dayton Duquesne Duquesne Duquesne
Davidson College is particularly fortunate in the men who di-|p,; reams 38 ~ SPE 33| William and Mary, the other! Davidson swimming coach Car-| LaSalle over Temple LaSalle LaSalle LaSalle LaSalle
rect its athletic program. Moulding men is their object. and : conference school which has ajroll Hambright, director of the| Navy over Army Navy Navy Navy Navy

program. t 4 ject, The unofficial standings through} swimming team, has not been en-|Southern Conference swimming| Northwestern over Wisconsin Northwestern {Northwestern | Northwestern | Northwestern
they have class because of it. Wednesday are: tering the conference champion- (Continued on Pege Six) U.C.L.A. over Southern California | U.C.L.A. U.C.LA. U.C.L.A. Southern Cal.

All of the foregoing is an attempt to delve into the il- woe
lusive ramifications of class as I see it. Because it is blurred,
my description is blurred. Sports page use has left it frayed Slepee a q ’
and deformed. Applied correctly, it is, to the sports lover,‘a| pixs _ _ §
beautiful word. Phi Gams a 4 3
Phi Delts — @ 3
As intangible as it may be, it remains extant and you| sae ___ —. 4 3
know when a man has it. Churchill had it when boosting the| Bete - — 3 3
courage of the British in the dark hours of World War II and| $P?8 -— —— 3 4
was he not a noted gamester? Truly, it is one of the great gifts ah , Sno eeereeerenen ; :
of mankind. You know what it is. I know what it is. But this “ep _. “4 6
is as close as I can come to it. Cempus Club 0 7

YOU HAVE TO GO NO FARTHER
THAN OUR STORE!

See the ,

“DAN RIVER WRINKLE-SHED” COTTON CORDS
BY HASPEL AND FAMOUS
STERNBERG NOW!

Light Blue, Tan, Grey, Char Gray.
Regulars, Longs, Etxra Longs.

26.50

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.

Want to travel
and study
abroad ?

Teke a university-cpenered
tour via TWA this commer

Visit the countries of your
choice... study from 2 to 6
weeks at a foreign university,
You can do both on one trip
when you arrange « university.
sponsored tour via TWA. Jtin-

Europe, the Middle East, Asia
and Africa. Special study tours
available. Low all-inclusive
prices with TWA’s economical
Sky Tourist service.

For information, write: Joha
Hi. Furbay, Ph. D., Director,
Airc World Tours, Dep:. CN,
380 Madison Ave., New York
17, N. ¥ Be sure to mention
countsies you wish to visit.

eraries include countrjes in ke ‘

When the stag-line wolves rush

your delectable date...

But you're the guy she steps
out to have a cigarette with...

thats PURE PLEASURE!

For more pure pleasure... SMIOKE CAMELS !
No other cigarette Is so rich-tasting.

“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” .&. No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel's exclusive

blend of coitly tobaccos! Thet’s why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette!
B. J. Reynolds Tebsssn Co. Winsten-Gelem, W. 0,

yet so mild!

