FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1955

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cts

LEON HOWELL

With a few rare exceptions, battered headgears, tired |

jerseys, and scarred shoes have been stored in dressing rooms

and football steps aside to allow the winter indoor sports to/

hold sway. This weekend the swimming team, the wrestling
squad, and the hoopsters all open their seasons.

Patiently waiting for the basketball season to open and an

opportunity to see the new (tall) look, the Davidson family was
filled with hope and expectation. This season, given the ma-
terial that he had been yearning for, Danny Miller was ex-
pected to produce an aggregation reminiscent of his Wingate
powerhouses. The man who developed Nield Gordon and
Darrel Floyd was of the opinion that he had another protege
of that calibre, Hobby Cobb.

This outlook was shattered Wednesday afternoon as the
news spread around the campus that Coach Miller was leaving
on January 1 to accept a business offer. Thursday morning the
story was given full coverage in the Observer and other tab-
loids.. With the conclusion of the Carrousel tournament, the
Miller-Davidson era will end.

Needless to say losing Coach Miller is a blow to the Cat
basketball picture, particularly at a time ‘like this. Frankly,
this observer is sorry that Coach Miller could not finish the
year before reporting to this new opportunity, but under-
stands that it was of a now or never nature. So Davidson is left
without a coach, with the players to constitute the best team
in several years.

Dr. Scott, who entered the Athletic Directorship to get
out of coaching, will fill the gap very ably. No stranger to the
sport, he had a very distinguished career with the likes of
North Carolina and the Phillips 66 team on his list of positions.
Under the circumstances no one could step in to handle the
team who is better qualified than he.

Nevertheless, the change will necessitate some adjust-
ment on the part of the team. The results of this reaction will
be an important determinate in the ultimate outcome of this
year’s record.

In closing the Davidsonian would like to salute Coach
Miller for his work of the past few seasons and wish him well
in his new endeavor, commend Dr. Scott for assuming this

horrendous task, and cross its fingers for the team as it at-| sirrine Stadium in Greenville be. "9 Some hard work in order to
tempts this treacherous switching of motivation in the very | fore a crowd of about 3,000. David- ™#*e this

face of a rough schedule.

CHRISTMAS IS ALMOST HERE !
SAVE VACATION TIME !
SHOP OUR FINE SELECTIONS
BEFORE GOING HOME
FOR POP, BROTHER
OR YOURSELF!
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.

“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

SWIMMERS ENGAGE
EASTERN CAROLINA

| BY TED DINGLER
| The Davidson swimming team
opens its 1955-56 season this Fri-

day against East Carolina College |

|in the Davidson pool. The first of
the Wildcats’ only two meets be-
fore Christmas, the contest will
begin at 2:45 p. m.

‘There for a while, we'll fight as
hard as possible, but we may not
have the man-power to cope with
their scholarship - implemented

squad.” East Carolina is expected |

to be one of our toughest oppon-
ents

Davidson will have many letter-
men returning, and these are go-
ing to be counted on very heavily.
Led by Captain Ed Speir, the
sprinters will be Tom Rivers, John
Winfred, and Stafford Querry. Bill
Carrell will be our man in the in-
dividual medley, and. will
assisted in the backstroke by Curt
Ormond

Breast:strokers are John Edwards
and Jim Traviss, with Alee Shep-
pard in the distance events.
Diving power is centered in Basil
Sharp, Jeff Smith, Max Bryan, and
Roger Bates. Outstanding Fresh-
man prospects are Gary Clark and
Bob Wynn

The tankmen have been working
hard under the direction of Captain
Ed Speir since November 1. “Ed's
done a fine job of working the
men. This is the best they’ve ever
looked for this time of year”—
Coach Hambright.

FURMAN EDGES
DAVIDSON, 13-9

By CARL COOPER
Baptists from

The Furman,

Coach Carroll Hambright stated:

|
be

First Annual Tournament

To Be Held Dec. 19-21

BY CHARLES McGOWAN

For the first time in the history of the college, Davidson is
| to be host to one of the largest holiday tournaments to be held
| in the South. This tournament, called the Carrousel Basketball
| Classic, is the first of its kind to be held in the Charlotte area.
This city was chosen for the site
of the tournament because of the}
| fine accommodations which the
|city offers such as a choice of | Of these
“hotels and the newly completed| Warded to Marlon Brando of Holly-
| Charlotte Coliseum in which the | Wood, California and he will choose
| tournament is to be held. Besides: the queen for the Classic. The tour-
|the many accommodations wich nament queen will be in atten-
|were found, the NCAA was also| dance at the Classic with all ex-
|impressed by the fine civic and | Penses paid.
|community backing which is plen-} Another important feature of the
| tiful in Charlotte tournament is the coaches basket-
| ‘The tournament will officially be- ball clinic which will be held at
py 3 19:00 A. M. on December 19. The
gin at 2:00 P. M. on December 19) : ; ‘7
and will last through December 21. | coaches of all the high schools a
Pairings for the first games were| ‘is vicinity have been invited to

announced on October 23. by Gen. | attend. Those in charge of con-

| ducting the clinic are the officials

j

in the tournament has chosen a

eral Chairman, John Belk. The

Fs | of the tournament and the coaches
pairing committee, consisting of : ,
Mayor Phil Van Every Charles |,°! ee ae oe
Buley of the Junior Chamber qe
Commerce, and George Dowdy, |

president of the Chamber of com.| CAT WRESTLERS IN
merce, drew and announced the| QUADWRANGLE MEET

first day pairing as follows The Davidson matmen will take

Game No. 1—2:00 P, M.—Ten-| on Auburn, VMI, and Marshall Col-
nessee vs Boston College | leges in a four-way meet at John-
Game No. 2—-3:30°P. M—-Clem-| ston Gymnasium with the first

son vs Florida State. j} round beginning at 2 o'clock. Two

Game No. 3-—-7:30 P. M.—David-} more rounds follow at 2 and 8 o’-
son vs Colgate | clock Saturday. The meet is set up
Game No. 4--9:00 P. M.—Wake} so that each team will wrestle the

Forest vs Mississippi State. |other three but the first round
Two of the men important in the | will not be determined until the
success of the tournament § are draw Friday morning.
members of the Athletic Depart-| With only two seniors on the
ment here at Davidson. Coach Dick | team, there will be several young
| McKee, who is publicity director| men getting starting positions. The
| of athletics here at Davidson, is the | tentative line-up for the Cats is as
| publicity director of the tourna-| follows:

}

On Monday before Thanksgiving, |
Davidson students saw their first
soccer team in over a decade de-|
feated by the University of North
Carolina Jayvees, 4 to 0. Outclassed
in experience and condition by the
undefeated Tar Heels, the David
son freshmen were seldom able to
pierce Carolina’s defense and at
tempt shots at their goal

Goalie Jim Hamm and fullbacks

| young lady to represent it. Photos | Charlie Rutherford and John Kuy
beauties have been for-| kendall were primarily responsible

for limiting the Tar Heels’ halftime
lead to one goal, and linemen Gor
don Neville, Tom Johnson, and
Jockey Reeder provided the offen- |
sive spark which occasionally flared
in the second half. John Poindexter
and Pete Andrews at halfback posts
successfully baeked up their line
and stemmed the Carolina offense. |

An attendance of about 200 spec. |
tators accomplished Athletic Di
rector Tom Scott's intention to fos
ter interest in soccer by this
“clinie-type” contest. The athletic)
department hopes that this season's |
soecer activities can next year pro
duce a varsity team which would
play. other colleges and universi
ties

Hardwooders Open
By JIM PAGE
Tonight, at 8 o'clock, Davidson |
opens its basketball season against |
Furman University in the new
Charlotte Coliseum. Saturday night
the Wildcats meet the University
of Tennessee at Knoxville
The game tonight is a first in
three ways. (1) It is the first col-
lege basketball game played in
the Coliseum. (2) It is Davidson's
first game of the '55-'56 season.
(3) Furman, for three straight
years, has been first in team scor-
ing in the nation. Last year the

facing the possibility of a winless basketball coach: at Davidson, is |
season, eked out a 13-9 victory over the assistant tourriament director. |

|the Wildeats November 19

son proved superior. in every sta
(tistical department except punting
| but a muddy field and a wet ball
| considerably thwarted the Wildcats’
usually potent aerial attack.

Comer intercepted a Furman pass

McRee scored from the 15 on a)
beautiful double reverse.
Belton converted, and throughout |
the remainder of the first half it}
looked as though the 1965 David-
son finale was going to be a suc-)
cess.

Boyle Passes For Two T.D.s |

But the Furman eleven caught |
fire in the third quarter. A pass
play from quarterback Boyle to
halfback Popson covered 45 yards
for the first Furman touchdown,
and Heisler’s conversion tied the
game, 7-7. Minutes Jater, Boyle
tossed again, this time to end Mack
Edwards, who snatched the ball
on the one after it had been de
/ flected by Davidson defenders and
| plunged over for the score. The ex
| tra point try was wide, but the
damage had been done

In the fourth quarter the Cats,
who fought hard all game, showed
.signs of pulling the game out of
the fire. Tal Broughton blocked a
Furman punt which was recovered |
by Furman in the end zone for a
Davidson safety, making the score

13-9. ¢

Christmas nave

Keep your

= MO ; :
a with sure-bets like the Arrow
Sf \ Tih s button-down, shown. $3.95. Or the
al i new all-nylon “Frost Fighter”
— ft < ee jacket—nylon-fleece-lined and light as a
YS snowflake! $19.95. Count yourself
i “sim on one, too!

up a tree?

at your Arrow dealer’s beforehand!
Cover yourself and the men on your list

-first in fashion
f swiats © TIES + SPORTSWEAR

you

vacation free for fun—shop

| ome

In the first period halfback Don |

| on the 50 and returned to the Fur- |
man 28. Shortly afterwards Don|

Diek |

| dock, Penn., had come to Davidson

tivities. Each college represented Heavyweight—-Dave Regen—Senior

Davidson College was shocked
Wednesday night to hear that
Coach Danny Miller, who has been
at the reins of the basketball team
since 1952, had resigned effective
January 1.

Coach Miller, a native of Brad-

RESIGNS POST

basketball. From 1942 ‘til 1945 he
called the Navy his home

A business offer from National
Container Corporation that was im-
possible for him to turn down
precipitated this surprise action on
his part. Having done a fine job
with limited. material here at
Davidson, Miller was expecting his
best season this year due to a
stronger Squad being in the process
of development at the moment.

Until further word, Dr.

College in 1952 from Wingate
Junior College, where in the years
from 1946 to 1951 he had com:
piled a 169-39 record. Prior to
this time, Danny had graduated
from Appalachian State Teachers
College, where he had starred in| the position as basketball mentor.

Tom | go against the College of Charleston
Scott, athletic director, will handle | and on the 10th Catawba will be

|

j ment. Coach Danny Miller, head) Wt.—Name Class . 3
Y sa0..ete Coleman—Brecienen Paladins upped their average to
130- Heury Griffin Sophomore 95.3, after two previous seasons of
’ — . : :

Se : over 90 points. Only a lew scoring |

in Both of these men have been do-| 137 Jim Covington Junior. ghee. with the Citadel kept Pur.
ee eee: Come veneer man from edging close to a hun

gala event successful. = 157--Larry Wright—Senior ded Sade — me nine atin
m % shli ° sey i " " : , as 5 a:.3

One of the highlights of the | 167 Barney Regen—Junior champiots ate returning, four: of|
Classic is the choosing of a tourna- or Barry Benton. aint: coiled tor 16 tales wer
ment queen to reign over the fes-| 177-——Dave Fagg—Sophomore ei a ad

game

Tomorrow night, at Knoxville,
the Wildcats work with the Uni-
versity of Tennessee, a strong con-
tendor for the Southeastern Con
ference title.

Facing this tough week end; the
Wildcats are in good shape except
for Dave Shaw and Dave Hollings
worth who are still out with in
juries. The starting lineup. will
have Joe Milner at center, Weeks
and Harding at guards and Captain

Hobby Cobb at forward. Either
George Lyon, Lou Spears or Mike
Martin will start at the other for-
ward.

On December 9 Davidson will

the opposition. .

—

Charlie Reed (at left) on offense for OC.—(Photo by Daniel)

= we «

SAE ee
| ny °s Christmas,

°

Ebenezer!

$

On Trips Home For The Holidays

by GREYHOUND

NORTH BOUND

One Way
WINSTON SALEM, N.C. _ $1.60
GREENSBORO, N. C. 2.35
RICHMOND, VA. $7.20
WASHINGTON, D. C. $8.40
NEW YORK, N.Y. $12.95
WYTHEVILLE, VA. $3.80
BLUEFIELD, W. VA. $5.20
CHARLESTON, W. VA. $8.40
CINCINNATI, OHIO $10.60
CHICAGO, ILL. $16.40

SOUTH BOUND

One Way
CHARLOTTE, N. C. $0.50
ROCK HILL, S. C. $1.20
COLUMBIA, S. C. $2.85

SPARTANBURG, S. C. $2.35
AUGUSTA, GA. $4.65
ATHENS, GA. $5.35
ATLANTA, GA. $6.90
JACKSONVILLE, FLA. .. $8.85
MIAMI, FLA. $14.95
TAMPA, FLA. $12.75

Plus U. S. Tax. Big EXTRA Savings EACH WAY On Round-Trips.

WHITE DRUG CO.
Main St.—Phone 2111
Davidson, N. C.

®. J. REYNOLOS TOBACCO CO . WINSTON -S4L Eu. % ©

VOU'LL BOTH GO FOR THIS CIGARETTE!

Cot togotlonr oo WINSTON

@ Men and women both want real flavor in a cigarette — and Winston's
really got it! That’s why king-size Winston changed America’s mind about
filter smoking. The exclusive Winston filter works so effectively that the
flavor really comes through to you. Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!

