PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1955

TRIBUTE 10 A

“Should | short-sheet him?”
BY JOHN TOUMARAS

ards, such as and sacrifice,
could become a strong alternative! 6, when Dr. Seward Hiltner will
The “Davidsonian” points with calls, that in order to wake up One 4, Communism. But he warned| speak on sex ethies and -Christi-
pride, this week, to the janitorial) student, he had to remov 'Y against a superficial understand-| anity. He will be on the campus
services rendered by Toy Withers, thing from the head of the bed jng oven of our own religion. for several days for several speak-
the sage of Duke. Toy, as he is) and then wake the young man up He pointed out how the poor! ing engagements, including | Ves-
called by those who know him, was. by going to the foot of the bed and
born in Iredell county in 1896. In yanking one of his legs. The re-
1928, at the ripe old age of 32, he moval of objects from the head otf
arrived on the Davidson campus. (the bed was a step taken to insure
Toy served at the old barracks not being hit by flying objects. To)
until they were torn down. He then also recalls that the only way be

and worked could ever get another student ou
In 1941. of bed was to take off his shoes
nd coat and attempt to get
with him.
asked if he

moved to Georgia
there for a few years.
when "Duke was opened, he moved
there and has remained its janitor bed
ever since. From the standpoint of

could remem

When

service, Toy is Davidson's senior ber anyone who was eccentric
janitor. bis. tahitian <s Sea nae
It is a well established fact that,“ °°" r hobbies, such as col
duty of a dormitory | lecting interesting photographs

the primary

janitor is to wake up his charges in the human anatomy, he replied
time for classes. Sometimes this|+sren't we all?” The question
can be a essa mel task. Toy re- “How. do you think we could
}achieve world peace?” was an
Expect 200 Here | swered: “Well, if we could get the
Russians on our side, we could
have world peace.” When further

(Continued From Page One)

|asked how this could be done, he

together as a group. nainils said, “They want too many things
The Davidson-W offord. football) aon know what would pacify
contest will begin at 2:30 in the af-

hes.”

Congressman hanes

(Continued From Page One)

ternoon. Name tags will serve as
tickets for parents who wish to

attend the game.

The final event of the day is to
be a Parent-Faculty Reception to
be held in the ballroom of the :  .
College Union. The reception. wil] | This was the first time in over 20
be of an informal nature and will Years that a Republican had gone
be a good opportunity for ac-| to Congress from North Carolina
quaintances to be made between In this race, he defeated Hamilton
parents and faculty C. Jones of Charlotte by a large

margin. He was re-elected in 1954

to the 84th Congress when he de

D e ] feated Judge J. ©. Sedberry of
‘M

Charlotte.
R’ |

While in Congress, Mr. Jonas has
QUALITY MILK

served on the Government Opera
tions Committee of the House. As

Mooresville
Creamery, [nc.

a member of this committee, he
sponsored a bill which centralized
Government Motor Pools and which
resulted in a more effective
handling of the vast numbers of
Federal Government vehicles
After his appearance in Chape!
the Committee on Effective Citi
zenship of the YMCA has arranged
for Mr. Jonas to appear at a dis
cussion in the Ballroom of
David Ovens College Union
| dtectesion will begin at 11:00
coffee will be served.

the
This
and

BS eee FERNANDEL | PLAYS
SIX DELICIOUS ROLES! WE

HOPE HE WAS PAID SIX SALA-
RIES!!...A JOY! A SCREAM!!

"tek & és = Crowther, N.Y. Times

= Dorothy Mosters, Day News

The Incomparable

FERNANDEL

in a delightful “tour de farce”

Sterts T-O-D-A-Y

SHOWS AT
7:00 and 9:00 P.M.

VISULITE

1615 ELIZABETH AVE. — CHARLOTTE, N. C.

| by Dr.

JANITOR?” Former Russian Officer
Speaks to YMCA, |

TO COMBAT COMMUNISM, AMERICANS

It is imperative that Americans learn the backgrounds of

| other cultures and religions than our own if we are to win the

struggle against Communism. This was the opinion expressed
Nicholas Goncharoff of the staff of the International
YMCA in an address to the Davidson YMCA membership in a
meeting held Tuesday night.

Dr. Goncharoff told how Com-|the Soviet spends large sums in

munism is able to adapt itself to! training native leaders to guide a
iso many cultures and religions.| country toward Communism.
'Communism has no morality ex- “We do not give enough time to

cept that of the class struggle and| spiritual development,” he warned.

Goncharoff Upholds

Democracy, Freedom
In Address to ROTC

Nicholas T. Goncharoff, former
Russian tank commander, spoke to

last Tuesday afternoon in Chambers
Auditorium.

BY FRED MEYERS
Davidsonian Arts Critic
As is all too often the case in
the Davidson College Artist Series,
last week's recital by Metropolitan
Opera Baritone Robert Merrill was
dull and mediocre. We sincerely

, and for the sake of his audience,
| that this were not true, but the fact
| is, unfortunately, too blatantly ob-
vious to be overlooked or ignored. |

the Davidson College ROTC Regi-| We took for granted, before we} ified in both respects,
ment at the second hour of dril|| heard him at all, that his voice was| doubtless felt that any attempt at

| rich in potential, and moreover}
| well-trained, since the Metropolitan |

wish, both for Mr. Merrill's sake} to

erjack — and we hope we are do-
ing Arthur Smith no injustice in
this.

Two essential aspects of style
and presentation were evident: (1)
to get it over as soon as possible
without appearing to rush, and (2)
“ham” as much as possible, and
to throw in maudlin sobs, together
with bits of low comedy, from time

| to time, to keep his listeners happy.

He may to some degree be justi-
since he

serious artistic expression would
be wasted on-——and would probably

Col. Sapp opened the program | Opera Association has achieved a| even offend—a yokel crowd. At the

| with a prayer. Cadet

Mr. Goncharoff.

the promotion

ff revolution. Exist-

Only through a sound basis for our} Mr. Goncharoff said that the pur-

It was to be expected, therefore, |

Regimental | high standard of technical compe-| same time, he felt obliged to give
Commander, J. B. Pharr introduced| tency that is possibly unexcelled | them something for their money.
| anywhere

Mr. Merrill is certainly. to be
| criticized. In the light of the total

| ville for the week of November 14

tribute to the

He expressed
well-thought out
its emphasis on re

olutionary cause.| than the Marxist system.

the ‘belief that a Dr. Goncharoff was the second
Christianity with | speaker in the series of YMCA
il spiritual stand-' | membership meetings. The next
| meeting will be held on December

masses of the Asian world, al pers, on the same subject.

relief from want. will welcome any-

one who helps. sno!
Marxism was the first to offer a}

to spread through Eastern Europe,
through Asia, and then into the
United States: the greatest expon-
ent of capitalism and free enter-
prise.

The former Russian officer said '

that Americans must know what
they are defending, must know,
what they believe in, and must de- |
velop a democratic philosophy
which they can preach to the peo- |
ple of other countries who,do not
know our great freedoms. He
seemed .to be saying that we in
America seem to take our freedoms
too much for granted, and although

helping hand in much of Asia and |
one-fifth of the world is under At Ari University
Soviet Geumimation He —— | zona
The Graduate College of the
University of Arizona announces
Music Depl. Readies that seventy-five fellowships and
teaching assistantships are avail-'
able for students who wish to do

graduate work next year

The stipend for twelve hours a)
week of service usually begins at}
$900 plus remission of out-of-state
tuition and fees. Seventy-five tui-
| tion scholarships are also available.
Interested seniors should write
for bulletins and forms to

For Busy Schedule

two weeks, Da-
tment will be
1 the finish-
igements.
and their parents will}
reshmen Par- | at once

During the next
vidson’s Musi¢e Depat
ery busy as it puts

g polish for its et

Freshmen

be entertained on, |

ents Day, tomorrow, by the Male|the Dean of the Gratuate College,
Chorus under the direction of Mr.| University of Arizona, Tucson,
Donald Plott | Arizona.

Tuesday, November 15, the!
Chapel Choir is going to’ Moores NOTICE
ville to sing for the Ashlin White| Thirty students from Charlotte
Lectures which will be in Moores-} are needed to usher for the Car-

rousel Basketball Classic in Char-
lotte, December 19, 20,. 21. It will
be necessary for ushers to be at
ithe afternoon and night games for
the entire tournament. Ushers will
admitted free. Any interested
There | students please contact Jerry Helms
‘or Curtiss Cates.

On November 18 at 8 p. m. in
Chambers auditorium, the: private |
students of the entire music
partment will present recital. |

de-

a
é

This program will not be long and| be
should
will be

very enjoyable
admission + oe

be
no

Quickly, Comfortably, Dependably
by GREYHOUND

NORTH BOUND SOUTH BOUND
| One Way One Way
| WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. $1.60 CHARLOTTE, N. Cc. _. $0.50
| GREENSBORO, N. C. $2.35 ROCK HILL, S. C. $1.20
RICHMOND, VA. - $7.20 COLUMBIA, S. C. ” $285
WASHINGTON, D. Cc. $8.40 SPARTANBURG, S.C. __. $2.35
NEW YORK, N.Y. $12.95 AUGUSTA, GA. $465
WYTHEVILLE, VA. $3.80 ATHENS, GA. _ $535
BLUEFIELD, W. VA. $5.20 ATLANTA, GA. = a8
CHARLESTON, W. VA. $8.40 JACKSONVILLE, FLA. $8.85.
CINCINNATI, OHIO $10.60 MIAMI, FLA. ~ $1495

$16.40 TAMPA, FLA.

Plus U. S. Tax
Save an Extra 10% Each Way with a Round-Trip Ticket

131 .N. Main St. Phone 2111

CHICAGO, ILL.

.

Li

we love and defend these freedoms
of democracy, we, nevertheless,
tend to be unable to explain them
to others

Christianity, said Mr. Goncharoff,
is the greatest force against com
munism. The sense of love and
mercy found in the Christian is the
greatest threat against the tactics
of the communists. He said that)
communism itself is a perverted)
religion, and that the communists!
in Russia fear Christianity.
He then told of his experiences |
in the Russian army, and how he
was among the army that invaded
Poland in 1939. He told of the in-
doctrination that a Soviet soldier
went through before entering
battle.

one, is certainly excep-
tional, and is all that could be
asked. But voice and training are
the most elementary qualities of a
fine singer or a fine recital. Mr.
Merrill's recital was inexcusably |
poor, and if he is a fine singer, he |
certainly did not submit any evi-|
to this effect last Friday

a great

dence
night.

His concert was a double testi-|
mony to the performer’s astonish-|
ing lack of artistie integrity, and
to his audience’s lack of experience
and judgment—I almost refrain
from adding, good taste. As is fre-

ling conditions in a country are} Christian culture can we hope to} pose of the Soviet army was world! that his training would measure up! situation, however, we shall not
used without respect to rightness| persuade the peoples of the world| conquest based on world revolu-| to professional standards at least, | criticize him so harshly as we must
or wrongness s¢ long as they con-| that Christianity has more to offer| tion. He quoted Lenin who said| Which it certainly did and does. criticize ourselves. For we en-

that the plan of communism was} And his voice, though perhaps not thusiastically proved that he was

right about us. We were delighted
at his grimaces, enraptured by his

‘high falsetto laughs, and almost

tearful at the exaggerated—indeed,
caricatured—banality of his senti-
ment. We groveled with him in his
ridiculous “Baa, baa, baa’s” of the
Wiffenpoof Song, when we should
have done ourselves infinitely

; greater credit to have burst out

laughing. Some of us did.

Many have said, “We must re-
member Mr. Merrill is from Brook-
lyn and, as he himself told us,

‘ain't had no education’.” I can not |
believe that Mr. Merrill's remarks |

Concert by Kobert Merrill Labelled

“Dull and Mediocre” by Student

with his performance, or how we
should judge it. A performer is a
fine artist, a mediocre one, or a
charleton, and what he does or says
off-stage has nothing to do with
his artistry or lack of it.

Toward the end of the program,
Mr. Merrill doubtless sensed that
his audience (though they would
not admit it) were as bored as he
himself was, and made some scat-
tered attempts at “warming up” to
them.

Mr. Merrill performed the aria
from “The Barber of Seville” as
one would scan a poem he has
read hundreds of times and is
obliged to look at once again. The
loud and casual lack of artistic re-
finement and authenticity mani-
fested here and elsewhere in his
program would be best charact-
erized by a great sustained belch.
I am thus vehement in the asser-
tion of this, only because I know
that he could not get by with such
laxity at the Metropolitan Opera,
and that it is a shame and a scandal
he was. able to get by with it at
Davidson.

STONESTREET'S
CAFE

Open Seven Days
a Week

| bored by his antics as he himself

quently the case in a rural southern} to any of us to this or other effects | PHO
community, when New York artists} were much more than attempts to | NE 36241
condescend to appear before an| amuse himself at our expense. At|| 450 S. Main Mooresville

assemblage of the towns folk, Mr.
Merrill clearly demonstrated his
opinion of, and contempt for, our
musical education, taste and intel-
ligence, in a recital for which he
would have been verbally tarred
and feathered by Manhattan critics.

He all but stood on his head, and
that half-heartedly. We were as

quite obviously was. His haste to
be finished as soon as _ possible
was all too apparent. The level of
artistic interpretation and expres-
sion in the songs he sang was pro-
portionately as low as that of a

any rate, they have nothing to do

118 West Trade Street

ied or fourth rate Carolina Crack-

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

Phone ED. 2-8257

better cigar
Teday-

Enjoy a Cool Mildness
never possible before!

PUT A

‘SMILE IN YOUR

SMOKING!

