Perhaps by now
you are very tired of
hearing talk about this
business of’ athletic
subsidization and
would be pleased if it
were never mentioned
again. Many feel that
the matter has been
thoroughly aired, that
all the facts, pro and
con, have been pre-
sented, and that the
decision now rests with
the Board of Trustees.
However, a great num-
ber of people are firm-
ly convinced that all
the arguments against continued subsidization of the athletic

program have not been answered. Among this number is
your editor.

In informal bull sessions around campus, one of the
arguments advanced against a program of subsidized athletics
is that eventually such a set-up would cause the scholastic
standards of Davidson to be in some way lowered. After all,
the argument continues, good scholarship is the primary
reason boys come to Davidson, and anything that lowers
these lofty standards should not be tolerated. If such were

BASEBALLERS HIT
WOFFORD HERE

FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1955

s
ear EEE EEDEEI EERE EREDAR EEDEEEREEIEnEn Ene ren tn gE

Che Davbidsonian

ALENDA CUR UBI GRETA LIBERTAS

RECORD SECRECY

HIT BY PERKINSON

PAGE THREE

Wildcat iietters Take Three mlatches
ane

a.

“>a - ae.

the case, this would be true. One would have to search a long
time before he could find a single student who would be will-
ing to sacrifice these scholastic standards for any reason
whatsoever. Students are justly proud of the traditionally
good scholarship this college has maintained. It might be
added that one would have to search an equally long time to
find any proof that athletic subsidization will have any detri-
mental effect on scholastic standards.

As a means of proving this point, your editor intended
to publish the average of the athletic teams, the overall men’s
average, and the total fraternity average of the school year
1953-54. These facts would have shown that the athletic teams
ranked slightly higher than either of the other two groups.
However, this plan met a snag. For some unknown reason,
the Office of the Registrar informed this writer, when he
went there to obtain the necessary information, that those
averages could not be released for publication until (and I
quote directly) “certain individuals” could be consulted. The
Registrar added that the matter of athletic subsidization is at
this time very controversial, and in order not to become in
any way involved, he felt that he must be very careful as to
what was released from that office. In other words, before
certain pertinent facts can be published for all to see and
think about, the administration must be consulted. Why is
this the case? Is it unreasonable to believe that the readers of

-

Mary Hardwick, Famed

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Mary Hardwick Hare returned | Davidson. She stated that she was

the Davidsenian should be entitled to know anything of im-
portance in this matter without the consent of the administra-
tion? The Registrar further pointed out that he would be
perfectly willing to release the information after the “certain
individuals” had been informed and had approved. Un-
doubtedly the information would be just as conclusive in a
later issue of this paper, but the thing that is most difficult
to understand is why the publication of these facts must be
cleared by the powers that be! If such a practice were made a
policy, it would not be too long before someone would hit
upon the idea that maybe the administration did not intend
to let all the facts get out. We are certain that this is not

to Davidson this week after an
absence of seven years, and the
former British Wightman Cup star
joined Davidson’s Southern Con-
ference Champions in workouts
last Monday afternoon on the local
courts. Traveling sround the coun-
try on a good-will tour with the
Wilson Sporting Goods Company,
Mrs. Hare is playing a series of
exhibition matches at various col-
leges, country clubs, and service
centers.

She has just returned from

the attitude of the administration, but under the circum-'Floride, where she spent three

stances, a suspicion like the one suggested above-would not
be entirely unfounded. It is to be hoped that this situation
will be immediately remedied and that any information the
Davidsonien might wish to print in the future will be readily

accessible.

NEW POLL TO BE CONDUCTED

At some time within the next two weeks, a member of
the sports staff will be coming by your room to obtain your
views on this matter of athletic policy. We are going to at-
tempt to give every member of the student body the op-
portunity to express his opinions, so your cooperation will be

weeks playing exhibitions with
Doris Hart. It is the start of the
spring tour, and from Davidson,
she moved on to Fort Bragg, and
then to Washington, D. C.

Mary played Corky Clark, South-
ern doubles champ, ‘in a singles
workout, and then she teamed with
Professor Andy Paton in a doubles
match against Clark and Leighton
Green. No results are available,
but both matches were well-played
and were enjoyed by the small
crowd which had gathered above
the courts.

very happy to be back at Davidson
and that just seeing Dick McKee
again brought back many happy
memories of Wimbledon. Still
speaking with a British accent, de-
spite the fact that she has been in
this country for several years,
Mary had nothing but praise for
the Davidson tennis set-up, and
she said that it compared quite
favorably with the places she had
been thus far on the tour.

The Davidson junior varsity was
playing the Myers Park high school
club in a match that was just get-
ting under way as Mrs. Hare ar-
rived, and she was quite im-
pressed with the manner in which
the youngsters handled themselves.
She said they really looked like
they knew what they were doing
out there.

Mary said, following the after-
noon's exhibition, that she had
thoroughly enjoyed the matches,
and she has invited Corky Clark
to a return match at Forest Hills
next August just prior to the Davis
Cup Challenge Matches. Corky is a
native New Yorker, and has played

in numerous summer tournaments
in that area, so he may add the
Forest Hills match to his schedule.

After the workout was com.
pleted, Mary chatted with Coach
McKee about her tour and stay at

Keesler Is Wildcat Of

When one thinks of spring sports at Davidson, the name

greatly appreciated. It has been stated several times that
student opinion will carry great weight in determining the
policy of the future, so we wish to have the ideas of all who

are interested.

plishments on the tennis court are well known throughout
this section of the country. Lacy, a senior, hails from Charlotte
and is 2 member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity.

Lacy is the last of the Keesler
brothers, having been preceded by|netters to chalk up numerous vic-
Lenoir, Teddy, and Dewey, all of|tories in doubles. Only last year
whom were outstanding tennis| he displayed his superb ability to
players. In fact, Davidson tennis| wield the racket by taking the
and the name Keesler have been‘ Southern Conference Champion-
synonymous for the past ten years,|ship, being the first Davidson
and Lacy ends the Keesler era of| player to attain this distinction
tennis stars in respect to the Da-| since Bo Roddey turned the trick
vidson scene. in 1950. He has the opportunity

Being the undisputed number} to win the title for the second con-
one man for the last three years,| secutive year, and, if he does so, he
Lacy is very quiet and reserved and | will be the first to accomplish this
has been a credit to Davidson in| feat since 1936.
every way. His over all record is} Serving as captain of the net-
an enviable one, and he has faced|ters for the past two years, Lacy,
and beaten some of the best com-/ with his modest and cooperative
petition in the country. Playing in| manner, has paced the team. Coach
the number one spot, he is con-| McKee says that Lacy is an out-
fronted with a tough job, since hej standing example of the sportsman-
must always face the best com-| ship that prevails in intercollegiate
petition an opponent has to offer.| competition, and that he always
But, in spite of this, Lacy has| maintains oa good attitude on the
managed to defeat top players | court.
from Michigan State, N.C. State,| If an all-time Davidson tennis
Duke, Kalamazoo, and other col-|team were selected, Lacy’s name
leges throughout the country. At} would surely be included on the
present his ledger shows a record| honor roll. There is no doubt that
of thirty-five victories to fifteen|the skillful play of Lacy Keesler
losses for the past three years. In| is going to be missed, and he will
addition to this impressive singles|long be remembered for his ac-
record, Lacy has enabled the Cat'complishments on the court.

Polo Short Sleeve Shirts

In All New Shades

Black-Brown
Red-Black
Black-Green

Etc.
Finest Lisle

4.50
Wilson-Wright's Inc.

“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
DAVIDSON, W. C.

Ma

Mary Hardwick is shown above with Leighton Green, Lacy Keesler, and Corky Clark before she
participated in an exhibition match here fast Monday.—(Photo by Oaniel.)

Britisher,

At Davidson In Exhibition Match

Davidson was indeed fortunate
to.be included in her tour, and all
the tennis enthusiasts here wish
Mary Hardwick Hare the best of
luck in the remainder of her tour.

Spring Basketball
Begins On Tuesday

Coach Danny Miller has an-
nounced that spring basketball
drills will begin for the 1955-56
version of the Wildcats on Tues-
day of next week. Hobby Cobb is
back in shape after missing the lat-
ter part of the season with a
broken finger, and such first string
stalwarts as Ray Harding, Dave
Shaw, and Dick Weeks will be
preparing for their best season
next year. Except for guard Pappy
Fowle and forward Ish Bennett,
Coach Miller will have his entire
team returning, and with the addi-
tion of several JV players, the
squad should be strong for next
season.

Any boys who are interested in
trying out for the team are urged
to report for practice, which will
extend into the first few days of
May.

The Week |

+4

of Lacy Keesler immediately comes to mind, for his accom-|,

ae _at
LACY KEESLER

Sigma Chis Upset
SPEs in IF Softball

-_

Action in the
softball league has been fast and
furious this week, and three pre-
viously unbeaten teams bit the
dust in Thursday’s play. Upsets
were a dime a dozen, as the SPEs,
the Phi Delts, and the ATOs
dropped their first contests of the

interfraternity | is considered the favorite.

== |Wildcat Tracksters [To
|Top Clemson, Furman

By LEON HOWELL

Long known as the sport at Da-
vidson with the best record, Coach
Pete Whittle’s tracksters seem to
have gained added incentive from
the records that the otber spring
sports are compiling. Through
the meet with Furman on Wednes.!
day, their ledger shows three wins
and no losses. .

In one of the biggest wins of the
year, the Cats snatched a very close

{meet from Clemson last Saturday

With the outcome of the meet de-
pending upon the final event, the-
mile relay, Mitchener anchoring
the race, finished a stride ahead
of the Clemson entry to clinch the
win.

Phil Koonce had an output of
16% points to lead the Davidson
scoring, taking firsts in the 100,
220, and the broad jump. He
also was a member of the winning
relay team. Other standouts for
Davidson included Ashcraft. with
his usual mile victory, Feeney.
snaring the two-mile, and Mitche-
ner, who took the 440.

In the field events Gramley took
the discus and placed second in
the shot, while Smith won the
javelin. Jack Huffaker finished in
a tie with Mitchell of Clemson in
the high jump. Final score was
10-61.

Back at home on Wednesday of
this week, the Cats crushed an
outclassed Furman squad, 99-32.
In the process they swept. all but
two first places and had several
fine times, despite frequent lack
of real competition. Koonce again
led the procession, with a fast 9.9
in the 100, another win in the 220,
and salted away this third victory
with a leap of 22 feet 2 inches in
the broad jump.

Running without the aid of
Frank Mitchener, the Cats kept
piling up the victories, in spite of
the gap created. Mallory, in his
flawless style, annexted the 440
victory, while Don Campbell took
both the hurdle events. Pete Ash-
craft brought the sparse crowd to
its feet with a blazing 4:28 in the
mile, and Floyd Feeney -followed
with a strong two-mile victory.

Gramley got off two of his best
tosses, taking the shot put with
a 44 %" and an_ outstanding
142’ 11” in the discus. This, of
course, was good for two firsts.
Larry Wright came through with
his first javelin victory. However,
the feature of the day was the
mile reJay, with various substi-
tutions designed to do anything
but win the event. Much to every-
one’s surprise, even this makeshift
combination showed its heels to

the Furman men.
———

|

young season.

The SPEs, perennial leaders in
the annual softball competition,
were surprized by the Sigma Chis,
9-8, as Walt Davis turned in an
outstanding pitching performance
for the winners. While this action
was going on, the Phi Gams were
taking the measure of the ATOs by
the score of 14-13. as a last in-
ning ATO rally died one run short,
with the tying run on third base.
The Kappa Sigs, losers to the
ATOs in a slugfest on Wednesday,
again had on their hitting clothes
and downed the Phi Delts, 13-6,
for their second victory of the
season against the same number
of losses. Harry Heinitsh was the
winner, as he had the Phis pop-
ping up throughout the game and;
kept things well under control. The ;
Phis now have a record of three}
wins and one loss.

These results have indeed |
tightened the race for the cham-!
pionship, for now there is not an|

-~| undefeated team in the league.

In the singles matches of the
tennis tournament now in session,
three complete rounds have been
played. Of course it is too early to
tell what the final outcome will be,
but at present James Montgomery
He is
out to grab his second champion-
ship in two years, and if he con.
tinues to play his present brand
of tennis he should again nab the
title. As soon as the final matches
are played, the overall Interfra
ternity standings will be pubiishea.

pV.M.1.,W. &L. and
Furman By 9-0 Count

The Davidson College netmen, under the direction of
Coach Dick McKee, posted three wins and one loss during
the last week to bring their overall season’s record to 11-5.
Victories over V.M.L, Washington & Lee, and Furman ex-
tended the Cats’ Southern Conference record to five wins
against no defeats. Kalamazoo of Michigan barely edged the
Cats, 5-4, in play over the past weekend at Lexington, Va.

Cat Nine Engages
Wofford Here Today

The Wildcats blew red-hot on
the baseball diamond this week,
taking three straight from Cataw-
ba, the semi-pro McCrary Eagles,
and. Lenoir Rhyne, in that order.
This afternoon they hope to con-
tinue their winning ways with a
win over the Wofford Terriers.

Ish Bennett. turned in one of the
outstanding hurling performances
of the year last Friday in blanking
Catawba, 40, on four hits, while
the Cats garnered only six hits
off loser Fleming. Buzz Hope,
with two for three, and John Pat-
terson, with two for four, led the
Davidson. hitting attack, while the
entire team played an improved
brand of ball.

The Cat nine took on the Me-
Crary Eagles on Tuesday of this
week, with Dick Belton on the
mound, and came out on the long
end of a 5-1 score. Jim West took
hitting honors with a triple and a
single in two trips to the plate. The
Eagles are always tough, and Coach
Clement's boys certainly proved
their strength by downing them
handily.

Johnny Smith ‘notehed his third
triumph of the year Wednesday
in « make-up game with the
Lenoir-Rhyne Bears at Hickory, as
the Cats blasted Bear pitching for
thirteen hits. Buzz Hope, who
banged out his fourth home run
of the season, and Billy Morris,
with a single. u double, and a
triple, paced the attack. Deal,-the
Lenoir-Rhyne catcher, got an in-
side the park homer and led the
losers at the plate. This victory
upped the Cats’ won and lost
record to 7-2 for the year.

One of the major factors in the
improved play of the Davidson
team this season has been the out-
standing pitching turned in by the

(Continved on Page Four)

WiFi
CHAMPIONSHIP
eee

™~ . afi

~%

The victory over VMI last Friday
was a display of the strength the
Cats will take into the coming con-
ference finals to be held here at
Davidson the first weekend
in May. Coach McKee’s netters

‘downed the Cadets in ail nine

matches without losing a single
set, as the entire team performed
in an outstanding manner.

As part of a triangular match
held last Saturday at Lexington,
Virginia, the Cats faced both Kala-
mazoo and Washington & Lee and
split the contests. W&L ‘was easily
defeated by the score 9-0, as only
one set was lost in these morning
matches. However, in the afternoon
play, Davidson met Kalamazoo, and
the netters from way up North
took the honors, 5-4.

Wednesday of this week saw
the Cats repeat the score of an
early season match with Furman,
as they again failed ta drop a set
and swamped the lads from Green-
ville by the score of 9-0, upping
their record to 12-5. Lacy Keesler
Corky Clark, and John Thorpe did
not lose a game in taking their
singles matches.

Coach McKee says that he has
been very well pleased with the
team’s play over the first 17
matches, and he is inclined to
believe that prospects are excep-
tionally good for the coming tour-
ney, Lacy Keesler and Corky Clark
have played outstanding tennis to
date, Clark having lost only two
matches all year, one at Miami and
one at Rollins.

This year’s team is the busiest
on campus, meeting more competi-
tion than any other spring sports
team. Next week is no exception,
as matches are scheduled with
North Carolina State on Monday,
Carolina on Tuesday, Miami on
Thursday, Wofford on Friday, and
Presbyterian on Saturday. All of
these matches are strong tests of
the Cats’ strength, and victories
over these opponents will estab-
lish the Cats as one of the
strongest teams in the Southeast.

APR Say,

ave. U.S.1.9.4

SPALDING

~ ————

Look for the Spalding “Tennis Twins”
Wherever Top Tennis Is Played

There are good reasons why Spaldi

ing’s tennis twins are used in more

major tennis tournaments than all other tennis balls combined.

Top players want a tennis ball that can take rough treatment...
and give uniform performance set after set. They pick the Spalding
and the Spalding-made Wright & Ditson over all others for uniform

wear and better bounce qualities.

Put the best ball in play for your best game. The pick of top tennis
men... Spulding’s famous sennis twins.

Your dealer has them now.

~ SPALDING =~ mse
