PAGE FOUR

THE DAVI

DSONIAN

FRIDAY,

MARCH 23,

1956

Robert Wagner .. .

(Continued From Page One)
half of the program. It was power-
ful and absorbing, and powerfully
and absorbingly delivered. We only
wish that the Society for Second,
Third and Fourth Performances of
Contemporary Works would make
it possible for us to become bet-
ter acquainted

There is little need to comment
on the lighter portions of the pro-

IRC Group fo Attend
National Conference

Delegates from many of the 600
colleges and universities in the
Association of International Re-
lations Clubs are making plans to
go to Philadelphia for the Ninth
Annual AIRC Conference, April 4
“i

Davidson wilt pe represented by
a large group of members of the

Studies Latent

RATS, MAZES, PATIENT STUDENTS, AND
MUCH TIME CHARACTERIZE EXPERIMENT

By JACK TRAWICK
Psychologists. for years. have kicked around theories in- |number of errors made were re-

doors were closed, the rats were

one minute, and then were placed
jin the starting box. The time re-
| quired to run the maze and the

allowed to eat in the goal box for) and control groups in the maze

mental group in the narrow maze
ran better than any of the other

groups. (That is, significantly
fewer trials were required.) In
other words, the experimental

| group in the maze with narrow cul
de sacs performed better than the
control group in the narrow maze
and better than the experimental

with wide cul de sacs. There was
no significant difference between
the latter three groups in the num-
| ber of trials. required to run the
maze

—

up with | corded. When the rat reached the
of | $0al box, he was allowed to eat
for 30 seconds and then was again|
|placed in the starting box. The!
;same procedure was followed for)

volving the learning process and as vet have not come
an answer to satisfy everyone. There are many aspects
learning, and quite a few theories centuring around each}

gram, which evoked continued and
resounding ovations from the audi-
ence. Suffice it to say that never
before in the history of the David-

local IRC including Phil Kukura,
Boyce Martin, Bill Pfefferkorn,
Tom Tennant, Tom Warlick, and
Faculty Advisor Dr. Paul A. Mar-

accurately.
According to tne results of this
experiment,, latent learning can

be explained in terms of the re- THESE 1956 Registered Spalding

TOP-FLITES® are the sweetest-

son College Artist Series has any aspect. ; on
rotte. a ill lla ; ward factor inherent in the cul
performer or group of performers _ title for this year’s con- An experiment was done here, and a lot of time rhe purpose) each rat until he had three con-! 4, sais salt: “Sie ween Det ee playing clutie in the ' Plenty
inspired. such complete enthusiasm ference will be “A World Safe at Davidson this year on latent of the experiment was to sce if} secutive trials. without error. ios aunesioneanel vile aia a é as come nie
without resorting to horseplay of} por Mankind Decisions USA.” * | learning, There are two main) there is any reward aspect | The contro! rats were given! the narrow cul de sacs had better| handicaps with them.
some sort. This is in itself a unique The o ning address on this| theories about latent learning— volved in a rat's running It) no previous experience in the performances than any of the
achievement, for there Was 0) theme will be by Mr August | ‘he Hull theory and the Tolman constricted cul de saes while TUM-| maze, as the experimental group others and that there was no The secret? They're SYNCHRO-
horseplay on Wednesday evening. Heckscher, An ds A ot the Wood- |theory. But just what is latent) ning a maze. The hypothesis Was| pad had. The actual running was gigrificant difference in the per- DYNED® Clubs — scientifically
The performers went about the) iow wilson Foundation, which is|/¢arning? Latent learning is a/that latent learning can be eX) carried out in the same feshion. formance of the other groups and exactly coordinated to swing
business at hand with perfect dig-| siving much support to the AIRC) learning that is not manifest in) plained by factors of reware "a This procedure was followed with points to this belief. Thus this a
ste in other words, it} reward here being getting out of) » : ¥ : : : Ss, this
nity, never once poe ~ wae Conference this year sage tag crn a a pr = - , gle — experimental and control groups experiment backs up the Hullian Winin's mene, these tematic
cracks or grimaces at the st <r : age a : a Pris aaa ” in nol the maze with the narrow belief that reward factors do ac- will stay handsome and new look-
Their good taste was a compliment|a compliment both to ourseive sea o imp ; ig tt posted Two mazes were used in the ex- cul de sacs and the maze with the jount for latent learning, and tin adnan
to us, and our warm reception Wes| and to them. beens wy gg a : wong veriment--one in which the cul; wide cul de sacs. tends to disprove Tolman’s “cog-| exclusive tough alloy steel with
\ ss paheos Pog ‘ oe poe sasoer elf de sacs. at the end of each alley It was found that the experi- nitive map” theory. high-polish finish that will last
\  Resgeece vase sce , 2 | were narrower than the alle an- FR ea ae oC Sr RT and last.
O Qike a pe this is obtaining the reward pao n which the cul ee sacs -"
P |offered for correct performance. | | winter. te ae Al ;
Hull and his followers feel that | sare ge si ae a yr . we P, S. The new Spalding PAR.
4 reward itself is responsible for | RSE ; si a eg a pra — FLITES,® also fine-quality clubs,
“ . latent learning, and the Tolman |‘. ‘ h wire so — he — are offered at a popular price.
O (UL seth ditties the cous tw: ie jeould: 1 et out. Lighting was p A R K E R - G A R D Ns E R The irons also feature Spalding’s
f i: tdesk ies ‘aniinal involved: hes irrangt » that illuminatior was new tough alloy steel heads with
ac a pe anime a a0 h equally distributed throughout the high-polish finish. Like the “
ne ~ i ‘ yr Pernt maze, Doors were placed half way) FLITES, they're sold through Golf
Tan o eschne bg me with down each alley so the ‘rats could} Professionals only.
0 ‘4 { j
' not back-track |
increased accuracy in_ perfor- : . | CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
rhe experimental rats were!
mance. , a ’
The problem set up here in- placed in the maze 12 hours after
bein fed 3 rere allowe
volved rats, mazes, two struggling ct FE ba gs ye " - = 8 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257
future experimental psychologists, onal i si fg bali lla | sutetiesiaian teeginete
latent learning, a little rat food, é : sige:
STONESTREET'S | ;
».. Auth
Now... Authentic

| CAFE

Open Seven Days
a Week

PHONE 3-624]
450 S. Main Mooresville

Drink
‘M
O
O
R’

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery. Inc.

Styling ...p

Of course. most evetyone aoes—
often. Because a few moments over
ice-cold Coca-Cola refresh you so.

it's sparkling with natural
P “ag a eee —and
iaturally friendly to your figure.
Feel like having a Coke?

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY 69
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered 1: wde-mark. © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Two Weeks only—from RCA Victor

on future record purchases... all for only $3.98!

New RCA Victor “Save-On-Records” Coupon Book brings sensational savings to record lovers!

* you want to bee at. your dealer’s counter! _
eveem owe ~eptionh

—

126 West Fifth St.
Charlotte 2,

to flow naturally from the waist!
There’s an I
occasion. Why not see our vast selection today?

™

MEN’S SHOPS, STREET FLOOR

1 2 $ 4 5 |
You buy the RCA You immediately ill | Every month You decide which ring the year you
y bandage phen = then oe aos rou one “ye pallens Ivy Leacue Dresses Up...

Hooke at yous record Records ¢ Coupon * fe RCA in our Tropi-Tex Suits of lustrous mohair

ore for o1 98, Book give R Albums... d, d 1 lk
Tt contaien Senn. This Png Ag and worsted, and our exclusive si
pons, each of which Reaiatry Coupon It in October. blends. 55.00
saves you one dollar you to any two are Bonus
on or epeiane RCA Victor Album ieee tiie

PLUS Three Free FREE: You can advanee of Take your
free $3.98 RCA sv dowa to your Here’s the whittled-down, lean-lined look of authentic IVY

; eer LEAGUE styling ...in lightweight suits, sport coats and slacks,

tailored for us by TROPI -TEX, Tailored, did we say? Needled
would be a better word! Soft, modulated, needlework, that
moulds the jacket lightly to the shoulders, drapes the trousers

LEAGUE Suit, Sport Coat or Slack for every .

lus weightless tailoring... by

TROPI-TEX’

Ivy Leacue Hits the Road...

in Tropi-Tex Sport Coats and Slacks. Available in a grand
selection .

of traditional fabrics and patterns.

DRESS RIGHT... YOU
CAN’T AFFORD NOT TO!

