FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1956

Slants

-“On-=

Sports

By JOHN JOHNSON

a

ON THE CINDERS

Of all the sports on the Davidson scene the winningest
team is undoubtedly the track squad under the tutorship of
Pete Whittle. Their record thus far this season has been five
wins and two losses. Of the three remaining meets the thin
clads will probably win two and drop the third.

If the future holds true to these guesses
the Wildcats will finish the season with a 7-3
record, enough to boost Coach Whittle’s over-
all win record to within two places of the
century mark. Pete will have been victorious
in 98 meets while loosing only 47 during his
22 years at Davidson. Also during this period
every school record except the 9.6 in the
100 yard dash has been set.

RECORDS RECORDS

On the current squad Pete Ashcraft possesses the mile
record at 4:20.9. This year three records have fallen. Ash-
craft ran a 1:58.2 in the 880 to change the school's oldest
record set in 1905. Bill Gramley lengthened his own shot put
mark from 47° 2” to 47’ 4". Bill is also within four inches of
the discus record. The largest margin of change was recorded
by the mile relay team of Mallory, Diuguid. Ashcraft. and
Elder. They knocked more than three seconds off their event,
dropping it to 3:54.4.

Would all of this record breaking indicate that the Red
and Black are a cinch to win the Southern Conference to be
held May 12 at Blacksburg, Virginia? Unfortunately no; but
they will be definite contenders for the crown.

Tf the squad were balanced this year’s track team would
be the best in the school’s history. However along with the
strong points the thin clads are weaker in the high jump, pole
vault, and high hurdles.

INTO THE FUTURE

In the conference meet all of the squad record holders
will be among the favorites in their events. In addition Phil
Koonce is likely to repeat his wins of last year in the 220 and
100. Other men who will probably finish in the upper brackets
are Dave Regen in the shot, Dale Gramley in the discus, Bubba
Martin in the javelin, and Oyvind Norstrom in the two mile.

What school will win? In the words of Coach Whittle.
“It will be a dogfight between Davidson, Richmond, William
and Mary and VPI.”

Whittle

Just look around campus. You'll see that the
“custom”? details of this Arrow University shin
are definitely “college correct.” The box pleat,
the soft-roll button-down collar, and the back
button are-basic requirements. In 9 solid colors,
this is the oxford shirt for you. Wear it with
comfortable Arrow Bermuda shorts. They’re
poplin, and available in 6 colors. Shirts, $5.00.
T':. $2.50. Shorts, $5.00.

=1RKOW>

—first in fashion
SHIRTS © TEES © SLACKS

1 Your Financial Future is as Blank as This . . .???

ly beaten by a score of 97-34. Eig-

From any angle — :

it says “College man” |

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Baseballers to Battle Citadel

Dave Page To Be On Mound In Clash Tomorrow

CINDERMEN DOWN CLEMSON, CITADEL;
DEFEATED BY RICHMOND'S SPIDERS

The last three meets have brought two victories and
one very close defeat for the thin clads. Clemson offered good
resistance here but the hosts won the dual meet by 70 1-2 to
60 1-2 points: however, it was so close that a Clemson victory

in the relay would have tied it.

The defeat came at the hands sisting of Roswell Mallory, Phil
of an enormously improved Uni-| Diuguid. Pete Ashcraft, and Al
versity of Richmond team. which | Elder. made the most outstanding
two days later also downed South-!| performance of the season thus
ern Conference favorite VPI. The|far in ‘running a great 3:25.4
Citadel. visiting Richardson Sta-;against Richmond. The perform-
dium in the last track mect of|ance -set another school record.
the yeur at that arena, was sound-| Other. otitstanding results are
turned in by Ashcraft, making an
ures that might have been even) excellent 4:24.7 in defeating Rich-
more impressive but for a forfeit] mond’, Chukinas on the mile, and
of the mile relay. j another sub-two-minute half-mile

The big men of the: team are (12594) in the Citadel meet. In

[still Phil Koonce, Bill Gramley.j the latter contest. Koonce. slightly

and Pete Asheraft. Gramley suc- ‘helped by a favorable wind, ran
ceeded in bettering his own school. an impressive 9.7 on the short
record in the shot with a heave of: dash and followed. up with a per
47 feet 4 inches in the Clemson | sonal best in the broad jump
meet. The mile relay team, con: (22° 8".

SIGMAS CHIS AND PHI GAMS
“SPARKLE ON SOFTBALL DIAMOND

The crack of the bat and the thud of the mitt. which are
familiar sounds ou the scattered diamonds these days are
excellent signs that spring is here again in full force-and that
the interfraternity softballers are going strong.

The Phi Gams and Sigma Chis Games
have ficlded two top-notch teams | Team W tL Behind
this season and as a result have| Phi Gams 5 ot
been running side by side the en-| Sigma Chis 41
tire. season Wednesday, however, | Betas 4 2 !
found the Phi Gams alone on the} Phi Delts 42 1!
loop's top rung as they sat the}Sig Eps 3 2 I's
Betas back 13-2 KAs 3.3 2

The strorie pitching arm of Joc | SAEs 3 oe 2
Williford, and the power at the| Pi Kapps . 3 2
plate supplied by Stafford Query Independents 24 2
accounts for a considerable part | Kappa Sigs 2 4 sad
of the Phi Gaim’'s. success. while | ATOs 1 5 4
Walt Davis and John Baker seem | Pikas 04 4

to be the strony for the

Sigma Chis.

men
1FC SPORT STANDINGS

In general the teams look to be| Kappa Sigs 824.2

in gaod condition and in excellent ie pee sone
we ws P iema s .

competitive spirits. With the SAEs 6423
standings as. close as they are at Retas 595

the moment all the Greeks see al KAS 590.9
championship in their fature. Phi Gams §23

The standings through Wednes a Rs 512.6

. 1 Pi Kapps 413.6

day are: _ | pixas pp Meee

Siz Eps 341.5

Independents 2744

During the 5th inning of the
baseball game with Belmont Abbey
on the local diamond, Wildcats
McRee and Ilope were on base by
virtue of singles. There was one
out. and. the fourth batter stepped
to the plate. He ley two balls go
by. and then clobbered the third.

The ball streaked for deep cen
ter. hit far behind the fielder and
with one hop disappeared over the
fence. Jim West drove.in two runs
and collected his third double of
the season on that swing. When
the game was over the Cats had
won 9 to 4. greatly aided by the
three hits and three runs person-
ally aecounted for by West.

Whether patrolling the outfield,
running the bases, or taking his
turn at the plate, one of the stead-
iest men on Coach Clement's base-
ball team .is Jim “Punch” West of
Salisbury, North Carolina.

Despite his big 200 pounds, Jim
is'a good runner. In addition to
aiding him in playing his right
ficld position, his speed causes
him to resemble a runaway loco-

Cat Golfers

Stomp

Presbyterian, Citadel

Tuesday afternoon at the Mvers Park Golf Club the |

identical score.
In both mects every Davidson
man won his match. Against Wof
ford George Scott. a local States-
ville threat. <nared medalist hon-
ors for the day with a three over
par 75. Larry Parrott, Skipper
Hall, Sam Sloan and Ned Payge
also broke 80
In the PC contest. as in the ma-
jority of the Cat's previous
atches, bad weather added many
undesirable stcakes to all scotes..
Freshman Sammy Sloan was meda-
list. with a 75
The Wildcats have ten contend.
ers battleing for the four posi-
tions to play inthe Southern Con.
ference mect which wil be held
May 4 in Danville. Virginia. Play-
offs will be made next week.
Although only four can play in
the actual conipetition. Coach Tam
Scott will, take six men on the
trip. They will come Crom the fot
lowing group: Captain Larry Par.
rot. Skipper Hall. Ned Payne.
George Scott. George Vaughn. Tom.
Johnson, Sam Sloan. Bill Purks.
and Bueky Dennis.
Any. of these nen. says Scott,
are capable of par ygolf., The squad
is strong enough to place close to
the top in the ‘tournament.
Results of .the Furman match:
1. Halt (D) beat Fleming (W) 3-0.
2. Parrot (D) beat Still (QW) 2-1.
Hall and Parrot. heat Fleming and
Still 3-0.
3. Sloan (D) beat. Mace: (W) 2-1.
4 Scott (D)} beat Hawkins (CW)
21. Sloan and Scatt beat Mace and
Hawkins 2 1-2 (14.

5. Vaughn (D) beat Huff
2 1-2.- 1-2.

6 Payne (D) beat Watson (WwW)
3-0. Vaughn and Payne beat Wat
son and Huff 2 1-2 - 1-2.

(W)

motive on the hase paths. Jim’s|
greatest asset, however, is his pow-,
erful bat which he has kept .busy :
thix season.

In the V MI contest at Lexing-
‘fon. Jim went into aetion. as a
relief hurier, During the seventh
inning of that game he did the un-
expected fora pitcher he clouted
a home. run.

dim is currently batling at the
314 mark and his hits have. ac-
counted for some of the longest’
drives:in Davidson games this sea-
son Ilix: power, which has proved
to be the margin of vittory in
severul games, has been one of
the brightest spots in Wildeat bat-
ting this season. Jim has been up!
35 times and has collected
11 hits. including a home run.
and four doubles good evidence!
of his strength with the .stick.

Jim. -also active in campus life.
is. a member of Sigma.Phi Epsilon
socta} fraternity: An all-round

previous week they bettered the Blue Hose of PC by the|__

Larry Parrlot and Skipper Hall. before Furman match. Larry
carded an 80 and skipper a 78 as the Cats overwhelmed Furman,

222 to 4.

Jim West’s Bat Packs Punch |.
ga

athlete. he is an important back- ing s

field cog in Coach Dole’s football. %

machine tn the fall.’

-. then...

PAGE THREE

Coach Chuck Clements’ Davidson nine will hit The
Citadel Bulldogs tomorrow in the second half of a two-day
Southern Conference doubleheader, with lefty Dave Page
| slated to start on the mound for the Wildcats. The league
contest is scheduled to start at 2:30 p. m. on the Davidson
diamond. and it will be the third of eight consecutive starts

against conference opposition.
Next week’s schedule shows a. and Mary, and games on friday

I 4 1-2. In the doubleheader here Tuesday against} and Saturday against V.P.f. on the
Davidson Wildcats out-stroked Wofford 22 1-2 to t the powerful Indians of William | Gobblers'

_ —+—~ | Blacksburg.

et |
ae
+

stomping ground at

The Wildeats will
iclose out their regular season on
May 8. with a battle against Fur-
man's Purple Hurricane.

The action of the past week has
seen the Davidson nine have rough
sledding as they dropped two con-
tests—one conference game and
one non-family affair. On last Fri-
day, the Wildcats met the invad-
ing McCrary Eagles, a strong
semi-pro club, and the Eagles
downed the Davidsonians by an
‘\t-l count. Getting 3 runs in the
first inning, the Eagles were never
behind after that, banging out six
doubles and two triples in a heavy
batting barrage.

The Eagles used three pitthers,
and Hicks, Reeder, and Hamner
held the Wildcats to 8 hits. Only
in the third inning, when they
bunched three hits without a run.
were the Cats able to get over one
hit in an inning. The lone run for
the Red and Black came inthe
eighth inning. when Shelbourne
Wallace. slammed out a home run
with no one on base. |

Furman's Purple Hurricane in-
vaded the Wildcat lair last Tues-
day, and the visitors downed Da-
vidson in a wild contest, 12-10. A
big five-run inning in the third
gave the Cats a healthy 6-1 lead,
as Kyber, the Furman starter, was
driven from the mound.

In the fourtn, the Cats appeared
to have put the game on ice as
they scored two more runs to go
ahead. 8-1. Thomas’ triple was the
big hit of the inning.

Fhe Hurricanes refused to give
us so casily, however, and they
banged Away at the Davidson lead
until they tied the game up in the
seventh. In the-ninth, the roof fell
in on the Cats as two errors, a
passed ball. and three Furman
hits produced four runs.

DAVIDSON FURMAN
Player AB HOA Player ABHO A
tomer, 3b 5 2 3 1 Cooper, lb 5 110 0
McRee,. ef 2 2 1 0 Dellinger, 3b 6 3 2 2
Thomas, cf 3 2 3 @ Popson, c¢ § 5 61
Hope. 2b-p 4+ 1 2 2 Gaines, ef § 100
Campbell. If 5 1 1! O Penland. If 6110
West. rf 5 1 1 O Powers, rf 3.91 2.0
Morris. ss 2 0. 4 4 Bagwell. rf 212 0
Little. tb 4 1 7 #O Weir, 2b 6 1 3 3
Wall. c 4 0 5 1 Baltzegar. ss 39141421
Dagenhart, p 2 1 0 1 Kyber, p 100 0
Patterson, 2b 1 0 O O Watson. p 2100
Kiser. 2b 1 t 0 1 Moore. p 0000
TOTALS 38 12 27 10 TOTALS 45 16 27
Furman 100 022 304—12
Davidson 105 200 002—10

JOE—Ey-

RECORD~spoPp

“Opposite Ivey’s Fifth St. Entrance”
126 WEST FIFTH STREET CHARLOTTE

See the Representatives of the O’Hair Agency at the
College Union — All Day Tuesday, May Ist.
