FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1956

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Slants

-On=-

Sports|

By JOHN JOHNSON

IT’S NEEDED

Davidson’s 48-6 victory over Washington and Lee last
Saturday in Lexington, Virginia, was a strange spectacle.

Every team needs at least one easily-won game on its
schedule in order to give the squad some release from the
strain under which it operates most of the season and also in
order to give the less experienced players a chance to gain
seasoning.

However, from the spectator’s point of view the contest
Saturday had very little to offer. Where is the excitement
to be found in crossing a goal line that is already well worn
with paths?

SOMETHING WRONG

Until ten minutes before the kickoff it appeared that
the home team would have almost negligible support, and
once the game -was underway the cheering was about as in-
active as this writer has ever seen. Only when the Generals’
Platt broke away for 65 yards and shortly thereafter scored
did spontaneous yells rise from the Virginia members of the
crowd.

A visitor could not help but be impressed by the omni-
present attitude of dissatisfaction about winless football on
that campus. What pride could a W&L student have in a
team that just dropped its tenth consecutive game? What
pride could he have when the opposition ran so easily through
the lines that it never had to punt?

In disgust many W&L students left their own game at
halftime and went to another stadium in Lexington to cheer
Lehigh to victory over VMI.

WRONG CURE?

Perhaps by turning amateur W&L has done away with
the problems of subsidization that plague some schools but
it seems that their solution is worse than their trouble.

It is generally agreed that in theory an entirely amateur
policy would be best for college athletics if all schools par-
ticipated. Abuses such as recruiting, payments to players,
and easy scholastic courses would be abolished and good foot-
ball could possibly exist as the current Ivy League teams
demonstrate.

WRONG DIRECTION ?

However, it is difficult to compare the current situation
in the small Southern school with that of the heavily endowed
Northern college. The Ivy League schools can do away with
athletic grants and lean heavily on their vast quantities of
other types of scholarships and work programs to draw in
sports minded students. Not so in the case of this region.

The number of opportunities for Southern boys to attend
college should be increased rather than decreased. There is
no reason to believe that those who contribute heavily to
football scholarships would do the same for scholastic scholar-
ships if the former were abolished.

Those that form Davidson's athletic policies can take
just pride in the fact that the school is attracting athletes of
a high personal caliber, maintaining its stiff scholastic re-
quirements and fielding highly respected sports teams.

Craig Wall (foreground) hauls in a pass from Quarterback Dyke
cats a first down in last Saturday’s 48-6 victory over Washington
players are Ken Conger,

DUKE VICTORIOUS 9-0

An exciting new sport, soccer, made its debut at David-}
son last Friday, Oct. 12, as the Cats tangled with the Duke |
Blue Devils on the football field. A very good Duke aggre- |
gation soundly spanked the locals, all of whom were playing
their first varsity game, 9-0.
|

The thoroughness of defeat.’ Fritz Russell, and John Kuyken-|
however, failed to detract from) gai) caught the spectators eye on
the enthusiasm of the students | qefense.

who attended. the affair. It seems
apparent that some of the lively
action that captivates the whole
European continent reached the
onlookers here.

This afternoon the team, under
the direction of Dr. J. W. Me
Cutchan, journeyed to Chapel Hill}
to attack the Tar Heel delegation. |
Although victory was not expected,

_ HALFBACK

By LARRY

Paul Barbee, chosen for

experience should give a vastly Saturday's 48-6 rout of W&L and on the basis of his season's

“a oF i enthusiasm dis record has earned top sports
played in the first engagement, a| Barbee romped 109 yards in
crowd of students, along with their ¢l¢ven carries against the Generals
dates, should be on hand Friday for an average of 99 yards per
afternoon, October 26 as the soc-| ty, his best performance to date.
cer team officially opens home- His 109.yards came within one
coming weekend against W&J.. yard of equalling last season’s
GOALIE ACTIVE single game rushing record of 110
A lonely man and a frantically 2/80 made against Washington &
busy man present the contrasts Lee.
evidenced in. the first official! Paul scored the Cats’ first T.D.,
game against Duke. While Freddie | a one yard plunge which brought
Butler was gallantly attempting to his season total to 12 points.
slap down the whistling Blue Devil
shots at his goal, the Duke goalie
stood deserted by his comrades at
his end of the field. Only occasion: |
ally was he called upon to defend

Barbee's aggressive play against
the Generals tightened his grip
on two ground gaining depart-
ments. He leads in rushing with
ja net gain of 208 yards, having

gg el when Danny Crates yet to be thrown for a loss. His
aggressive offensive performer magnificient effort in the W&L

|fray increased his rushing average

and captain of the foot troops, was ishighetily.

injured, the Wildcats were unable
to maintain an offensive drive; Paul gained 4 yards in one carry
long enough to threaten Duke. | against Catawba, 48 yards in 4
Gordon Neville, George Sutcliffe, carries against the Citadel, and 47
and Ross Smyth stood out in the! yards in 1% carries in the P.C.
rare offensive sallies, while Butler, game.

Discover the difference between “just smoking” and Camels!

RB. J. Reynolds Tob. Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.

You're sure to enjoy

popular cigarette today. They've really got it!

34; Dave Fagg, 76; Dale Gramiey, 68; and Charlie James, 51.

_WILDCAT OF WEEK

You'll find Camels taste richer, fuller, more
deeply satisfying. The exclusive Camel blend
of quality tobaccos gives you smooth smoking.

Little (arrow) to give the Wild-
& Lee in Lexington, Va. Other

tis tok tee te

By BOBBY PAGE

Richardson Field is prepared to host its first eollegiate
football clash of the season as the Hatters from Stetson
University roll in fresh from last week and their first win of
the campaign to meet the Davidson Wildcats who will be
gunning for their fourth triumph in five outings.

North Western Louisiana fell to. ing to set a new individual
this week's invading forces who| rushing record and account

had previously been toppled by! for one fourth of the total
V.M.I. and The Citadel. Having suf. | ‘Cat offence,

fered defeat at the hands of the

Wildcats in 1954 and 55, the Hat- | The fleet sophomore seored the

ters. will try to rejuvenate the first tally on a one yard sweep

spirit of 1912 when the two met|° ‘ight end and Don Campbell

for the first time with Stetson| followed closely with a 12 yard

walking away with the win. | Juant to gloryland. A tremendous
Wh: te new renning: ob {kickoff return by Alex Platt for

tack being emphasized, David- |65 yards set up the W&L touch.

son knocked off Washington down. Three plays later Platt

and Lee last Saturday after- ;scampered across with the lone

noon, 48-6, Halfback Paul Bar. | “°°'e for the Generals.

bee rolled up 109 yards rush- | The third period saw the red
———.- |and black reach paydirt three

|times. A one yard line smash by

Bauidsonian

| Ken Conger, and passes from Dyke
|Little and Dick Belton to John
| Francis and George Hart, respec-
tively, netted 18 more points. Dave
Fagg converted three of four tries
jand Belton made good once.

| From eight yards out, Belton |
seored on a keep play in the third

MEYER

his scintillating play in last
laurels for the week.

The pass receiving depart-
ment is the other prong of
Barbee’s dual attack. He leads
in yardage gained so far, with
two grabs for a total of 61
yards. The longer a 51 yard
play, saw Barbee take a 30
yard pass and scamper 21
more to score against Presby-
terian.

Although a limited service player
last year, Paul has already seen
quite a bit of action and will prob-
ably be even more prominent as
the season progresses.

Coach Bill Dole, when ap |
proached for a statement on Bar- |
bee’s play, was enthusiastic, and |
commented freely that “He is a
picture runner, with a great deal
of ease and rhythm of movement.”

Paul, a sophomore and member
of Kappa Sigma social fraternity
is known on campus for his shuf
fling walk and ever-present smile

Camels, the most

period and Jim West closed the
scoring in the fourth on a blast
through the middle. Fagg and Sam
| MeGuirt added the extra points.

|
4 STENSON STARS
Unkowing fans will want to|
keep an eye in the green and |
|| white backfield on Boyd Hilde-
) brand, Dick Saltrick, and Ray
| Henry. The Hatters employ a ver-
jSatile offense in an attempt to
jmake amends for the difference
|in experience which will not be

las great as last year when the
Davidson forces. won in Deland,
| Florida, 25-13. |

KAs, Kappa Sigs Hold

The K.A.’s and the Kappa Sigs,
last week’s interfraternity flicker-
ball leaders, still share the top spot
with unblemished records’ at the
end of seven rounds.

Competition for first place nar-
rowed slightly as both the Sigma
Chi's and S.A.E.’s dropped crucial
games during the week, leaving
the Phi Delts as the foremost con-
tender.

Led by Andy Watson and Shel-
borne Wallace, the K.A.’s downed
the Sigma Chi's, 12 to 6, in one
of the real big ones last week.
In two other important cbntests,
the Kappa Sigs turned back the
S.A.E.’s, 20 to 0. and then edged
the sigma Chi's, 13 to 7, in a
thriller.

Since Wednesday's games were
called off because of a cold rain,

the following results: include
games from. Thursday through
Tuesday only:
K.A.—12 Sigma Chi—6
Kappa Sig—-20 S.A.E.—0
Pi Kapp—25 Phi Gam—18
Phi Delt—12 Beta—7
K.A.—40 Sig Ep—18
A.T.0.-—27 Campus Club—0
S:A:E.—25 Pika—0
Kappa Sig—13 Sigma. Chi—-7
Phi Delt—63 Phi Gam—6
A.T.O.—19 Pi Kapp—7
K.A.—20 Beta—-9
S.A.E.—-59 Campus Club—6
Unofficial standings through
Tuesday, October 16, are
Won Lost
K.A 7 0
Kappa Sig 6 0
Phi Delt 6 1
S.ALE 5 2
A.T.O. 4 ;
Sigma Chi 3 3
Pi Kapp 3 4
Pika 2 4
Beta 2 5
Sig Ep 1 6

Campus Club 1

Phi Gam

....e@arn FREE

PAUL BARBEE

LAST CHANCE!
to enter Reader’s Digest
$41,000 CONTEST

It’s fun to do—and you may find
you know more about human na- }
ture than you think! Just list, in |
order, the six articles in October
Reader's Digest you think readers
will like best. Couldn't be simpler
—and you may win $5,000 cash
for yourself plus $5,000 in schol- |
arships for your college.
Have you sent in your entry yet? |
Entries must be postmarked by
midnight, Thursday, October 25. |
Entry blanks available at your
college bookstore.

|
|

126 WEST FIFTH STREET

FREE LP's...

purchases from us! .. . Come in
and join the Joe Little Record
Club tomorrow .
tion! You select
LP’s from our

“Opposite Ivey’s Fifth St. Entrance”

LP’s with your

. No obliga-
your own FREE
entire stock!

CHARLOTTE

IMPRESS YOUR DATE...!

WITH AN
"AFTER-SIX" TUXEDO
FROM

WILSON-WRIGHT'S
Priced from $42.50 up

ALSO

COMPLETE LINE OF
ACCESSORIES

RENTALS ALSO
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.

“Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N..C.

