FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1956

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Slants

“-On-

Spo

By JOHNNY JOHNSON

A fast growing Davidson College athletic program initiates
soccer as a varsity sport on October 12 when the new and
ambitious Wildcat squad meeis Duke on Richardson Field.

All of the indefinite plans and} ne ; ;
| questionable ability that goes with| University of North Carolina, sev-
the birth of any new team are|¢ral upperclassmen were inspired

SURPRISES PROBABLY

Those who travel to Clinton, South Carolina to see the | Presenting Dr. John W. McCutchan, | With the idea of a Davidson soccer |

Wildcats renew their traditional rivalry with Presbyterian | 2™s!ish sieved cepacia coach, | eam — sey! oe p33 oe
should be prepared for something new. : vadioa) | ith @ challenge as great as teach-|'0 the campus in over a decade.
: ething new, unusual or radical | ing students the value of perfect Several freshmen have added their
in the Davidson strategy. jtalents to the nucleus, formed by

| English.

Coach Bill Dole has been running his boys through pa five games are assured for| ‘Re Vets. to give the “pioneer
practice the entire week under the cover of a complete | the season, which will be depend. | #°°¥P” @ hopeful outlook.
news black-out. No releases have been made available to =| "8 _-Upon the scheduling of other |
the newspaper or radio wire services. The names of the

Practices have been staged at
| 8ames in an effort to lengthen its | four o'clock everyday on the east

boys on the starting lineup has been withheld until the | jend of the intramural field with
day of the game } One week after the opener) each man trying to capture plenti-
y : | against Duke, the ‘Cat “feet|ful and available first string spots.

Such mysterious actions would indicate that Coach Dole |slingers” will travel the road to!
has special plans for the action against the Cats’ arch rival,}Chapel Hill for a tussle with the |
PC. No Dole coached team has been able in the past to out-| University of North Carolina.
score the Blue Hose, and few things would give the mentor] ,,sucmPts to get games

SQUAD ROSTER

The squad consists of the fol-
with lowing boys: Pete Andrews, Fred

it ci , F Pfeiffer College were dia | ng npc
greater satisfaction in victory than to have the Cats to out| ful ——— oe Butler, Hugh Campbell, Danny
perform Presbyterian. cititea : a.) erates, Sam Clark, Ken Currie,
; Washington and Lee provides} joo Delany, Charlie Duncan.
SPOILE competition on October: 26 and | George Egerton, Jerry Green, Roy
RS, SPOILERS ea ge 3 bs a home-and-home! poffner, Frank Holt, Ed_ Irvin,

a : basis. Presently, the schedule in-/fTom Johnson, John Kuykend:
Twice ac ver Ganwe + ti ‘ ’ d son, , ykendall,
Twice in the past fe W years PC has been the first team) dicates that November 10 will be Don ‘Lamm, Bill Martin, Hugo
to spoii the Cats’ unblemished record. In 1954 they managed | the last game, against Warren Wil- yfisie, John Monahan, Gordon

|

a significant upset, 10 to 7, and last year they won 7 to 16. |5"-
The rivalry between the two cousin institutions is
typical of what makes football the great American sport
that it is. When these two encounter, the odds and the
past records can be thrown out the window for only the
scoreboard at 10 P.M., tomorrow will be the indicator of
the winner.
In the past five encounters only once has the margin
of victory been greater than three points. Twice it was de-
cided by a single point.

WILL IT REPEAT?

The situation tomorrow is similar to that of two years
ago when the Red and Black journeyed to South Carolina.
That 1954 squad was big and powerful. Optimism was high
because the Cats had been impressive in three consecutive
wins, the first time they had managed that accomplishment
since 1947, The newspaper writers rated the club a two touch:
down favorite

PC had been winless in two encounters, but they were |
lying in wait for their arch competitor. It was homecoming,
and a victory over Davidson would give the grads a great
thrill.

During the game the Cats were successful in pass-
ing and running but not scoring. Although on the short
end of the statistics, the Blue Hose played alert football
and came out on the long end of a 10 to 6 score.

Again this year the Wildcats travel south with a big and
powerful team. Again they are picked as favorites, but also
again they play before a homecoming crowd. As in '54 the Hose
are winless in the opening two games while the Wildcats are
highly regarded despite their loss to The Citadel.

Scott states it. Football

THE OUTLOOK olf
For those who fail to obtain Quantz, '56.

The Wildcats have almost the same backfield that led| the 209 points required by the| Dips. 25, Sid Farabow, '56.
them to their previous two successful seasons. Their line in| coaching staff to, enter competi- oo ' . a ee,
a few positions lack experience but not ruggedness nor con-|'¥¢ 84mes, individual instruction) Dodge Run, 21.8, Chris Bremer,
ditioning. The team will be out to prove their ability to-
morrow.

| Neville, Peter Ramm, Jack Reeder,

BIRTH OF A TEAM | Fritz Russel, John Seott, Sam

After going through some basic | Smith, Ed Pantigoso, Ross Smyth,

stages last year which involved a| Peter Sterling, and George Sut-
40 loss to the Freshmen of the | cliffe.

Bauidsonian

&

THLETIC RECORDS
FALL TO FRESHMEN

The class of 1960 set tecords in four of Davidson's eight

Standarized Athletic Ability Tests this fall.

Freshman Newt Quantz set new
marks in both the standing broad P85 the tests. all students enter
jump and the football punt, His | the regular athletic program.
total of 501 points was highest in| d
is Gliek. end of the sophomore year, he will

Other new marks were set in | take physical training until he

the dodge run, by Chris Bremer. | #5 senior year.
Farabow made it up and down 25 | Records as they now stand are:
times and Bremer covered the 100 yard dash, 106, Jerry Nor-
dodge course in 21.8 seconds. ville, ‘55. See

The tests, given during Orienta- Broad Jump, 9° 6", Newt Quantz,
tion Period, are to aid the “classi- 56. ms na
fication of students for more ef-,  5eftball Throw, 285’, Angus Me-

ficient instruction,” as Coach Tom) Bride, '55.

Punt, 64 yds,

is given in all of the seven events. | ‘56.

At the end of the first scholastic |
of failure to!

Total Overall Score: 510.6 points
Max Bryan, °55.

quarter, regardless

WINSTON
‘TASTES GooD!

LIKE A
CIGARETTE

as SHOULD!

If « man has not passed by the|

dips, by Sidney Farabow, and in| (0€S pass or until the beginning of

Newt |

|
|
|

The coaching staff lauded Wildcat right end Craig Wall for

his offensive and defensive play in last Saturday's game with The

Citadel. Films of the action revealed that the 208 pound sophomore
| from Conway, South Carolina, was a standout in the Davidson

| forward wall.

The Davidson Wildcats will be trying for their second win
of the season tomorrow night at 8:00 when they meet the Blue

Hose of Presbyterian College a
The Cats had an unsuccessful!

night last weekend when they

were upset by the Citadel 34-7.

Craig Wall, rugged right
end for the Cats, was the |
bright spot in the dim picture |
for Davidson. His outstanding
defensive as well as offensive
play drew praise from the
coaching staff.

Tomorrow: night's contest with
PC. will the 16th in a long
series between these two teams,
which has been marked by bitter
rivalry on the football field.

Although Coach Dole ran

be

the

squad through light drills on Mon- |

day, the team spent the remainder
of the week in extremely tough

; Workouts. The mairt work was put

|

After two rounds of

ternity flickerball, five teams stood | 18

junbeaten. The others proved, how-

lever,

Sigma Chi'’s defending cham-

backfield to graduation, still looked
good in dropping the Phi Gams on

Fraternity $

interfra-|in a high scoring contest, 38 to

Playing well on defense, but

that with the slightest break,| unable to organize an offense, the
they can spoil anybody's record.|A.T.O.’s were dumped by. the de
|

on offense with the ground attack
being emphasized. Since Dole noted
that offensive blocking was a
point of the Cats game. which

;needed extra polish, a large por-

tion of the drills were spent in
running blocking assignments, both
dummy work and actual body con-
tact

P. Cc. RECORD
The Presbyterian squad has
played two games thus: far in the

season, Their first game was with

ceptive Phi Delts, 18 to 0. Phil!Clemson to whom they. lost 27-7.

Monday, 32 to 6. Their fast team)

work also proved too much for the
Sig Eps on Tuesday, as they romped
to a 33 to 0 vietory.

Other Monday
strong Kappa Sig
a 19 to 6 win over a much im.
proved Pika squad. The S.A.E’s,
|headed by Lew Spears, shut out
a fighting Sig Ep team 21 to 0,
land the K.A.’'s were too fast for
the Independents in taking a 38 to
0 tussle.

action saw 4a
team held to

| In Tuesday afternoon activity,
a surprisingly well-organized Pika
team swamped the Phi Gam’'s 37
to 7. The Phi Delts, sparked by
Tom Rivers and Semi Mintz,
scrambled to a 26 to 13 decision
over the Pi Kapps. Led by Don
| Massey and Ed Lewis, the A.-T.O.'s
spilled a fighting group of Betas,
19 to 0.

Finishing out the second round
|on Wednesday, Kappa Sig beat the
| Independents 29 to 0, with Arm
field, Brewer, and Stafford carrying
the load for the winners. K.A.’'s
‘hustling rebels topped the Pi Kapps

@Try America’s favorite filter smoke!
You'll like the full, rich taste. You'll like
the Winston filter, too. It does the job so

smoothly and effectively that the flavor
really comes through — so you can enjoy
it! For finer filter smoking, get Winston!

Switch to WINSTON Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette! '

>

Rf. J. APYNOLOS
TOBACCO ¢o.,

WINSTON-SALEM, NM. @,

|

Semi Mintz led the winners. The
Betas dropped one to the S.A.E 's,
34 to 19, with Henry Massey scor-|
ing twice for the losers, ‘and|
Spears, Baker and Milstead run

: |
ning well for the winners.

McBRYDE, ASHCRAFT BEST IN TIME TRIALS

pions, after losing some of their| Tesh stood out for the Taus, and|In the second encounter they were |

downed 27-12 by the Terriers of

Wofford

Scholastic hurdles have left
holes in the Hose’s roster. this
year. As a_ result, Coach
Crutchfield has filled his var-

t Clinton, S. C.

sity ranks with a few key

freshmen. In spite of the dif-

ficulty, there are nineteen
lettermen on the squad this
season.

The P. C. backfield will be spear-
headed by all-state fullback Ken
Webb. Rounding out the first unit
will be halfbacks Gene Butler and
Eddie Brockenbrough and quarter
back, Felder Cook. Because
weak pass attack, these four men
}are expected to carry most of the
P C load on the ground Saturday
| night.

of a

CITADEL LOSS

The Davidson tragedy last week
end was a heartbreaking surprise
to the Wildeat’s fans. Citadel's
speedy running attack and well
i timed aerial game could not go
wrong since the Bulldogs gained
strength and confidence the
| game progressed
In the first quarter, Davidson's

Donny McRee returned a Citadel
punt 58 yards for the first touch
down of the game. This talley was
the only’ score of the game for
Davidson;. but Citadel could. not

be stopped. Although the. Bulldos
failed to seore in the Ist quarter,
they hit dirt the
second period making core
at half time 14-7

The third’ period ended with two

pay twice

the

in

more touchdowns chalked up for
'Citadel. In the last quarter of
the ballgame the Bulldogs added

a final marker bringing the total
for the game to 34 for Citadel,
7 for Davidson

CROSS COUNTRY OPENS SEASON

Bolstered by an influx of promis. ,
ing freshmen, and having a good
returning crop of lettermen, the
Davidson cross country team tra-|
vels to Lexington, Va., Saturday
for its first contest, a triangular
meet with Washington and Lee,
and V.M.I.

Back for another year are letter
men J. H. Patterson, Al Elder,
Henry Brown, Steve Huntley and|
captain Pete Asheraft. Elder and
Asheraft are expected, to spark
the squad with their performance. |

FRESHMEN HELP
Freshman prospects are bright}
this season. Leading the pack so|
far is Jim Alexander, winner of |
the Freshman Cake Race. Alex- |
ander and Milton Gee have won|
two of the eight starting positions |
for Saturday's meet.
Time trials were held Tues-
day to determine the team
for this first meet. They are,
in order of finish: Angus Mc-
Bryde, Pete Ashcraft, Al El-

Announcements —

Senior Red Cross Life Saving will
be offered from the fifth to the}
17th of November, Everyone inter: |
ested is asked to report to the Gym
at 7:00 P. M. on the fifth.

All lettermen and other. candi

dates interested in fall tennis, meet |
Coach McKee Monday, October 8th,
between three and four o'clock, on |
the mezzanine of the Gym. '

der, Ray Antley, Henry Brown,

Jim Alexander, Steve Huntley

and Milton Gee.

Coach “Pete” Whittle was par.
ticularly impressed by the show-
ing made by MeBryde,‘ a sopho-

more, He also commented that

freshman Graham George, present: |

ly hampered by a sprained ankle,
was looking extremely

good.

George finished ninth in the time
trials over the four mile. j:
THE OUTLOOK
Whittle the usual
mistic forecast, but
finally pinned down to’ state

tunt
gave pe
Was
that,

coach's

“We'll probably take Washington
& Lee, but V.M.L should be hard
to beat, having finished high in

the conference last year

LET’S GO TO CLI

PRESBYTERIAN GAME
OCTOBER 8 THROUGH

Cornelius-Davidson

AND BEAT PRESBYTERIAN
PRESENT YOUR TICKET STUB FROM THE

Compliments Of

MIDWAY PHARMACY

AT... THE SHOPPING CENTER

NTON SATURDAY

ANY DAY NEXT WEEK
13 FOR A FREE COKE

’

At the Underpass

ALL CAPITOL AND

PARKER-

118 West Trade Street

DIAMOND NEEDLES FOR ALL POPULAR
RECORD CHANGERS ONLY

$12.95

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

DECCA LP’S 20 OFF

GARDNER

Phone ED. 2-8257

Comes in subtle
oxford and § cri

Any way you Bok at it, this Arrow University
shirt is an eye-catcher. Collar buttons down
trimly at three separate points, front and center
back. And the back sports a full box pleat.

Triple threat

in any league

colors galore . . . 6 plus white in

sp broadcloth checks. Team it

up with this smart, all-silk repp tie.

Shirt, $5.00; tie, $2.50.

ARROW —

—first in fashion

y

SHIRTS « TIES
