FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1956

THE DAVI

DSONIAN

PAGE THREE

ASPIRANTS TO QUIPS ’N CRANKS EDITORSHIP OFFER PROGRAMS

Boyce Martin

The publication of the 1957
Quips .and Cranks presents the
editor with both a responsibility
and a challenge: a responsibility
to the Class of 1957 to present im-
partially Davidson College as they
remember it; and a challenge to
surpass standards established by
earlier publications.

To meet. this responsibility,
many factors must be taken into
consideration. First, the staff: it
should be
composed of
representa
tives of al}
phases of Da-
vidson life, im.
partially chosen
from each and
every organiza-
tion. This
staff, working .
closely with as- Martin
sociate editors,
composed of members of the
senior class, would comprise a
publication nucleus of not just
one man, but of the school as a
whole. Weekly staff meetings
should be held to adjust the work
of each member toward the com-
posite publication. These mect-
ings would also afford closer co-
ordination between members of
the staff. the editors, and Stu-
dent Body.

A most important improvement
needed in the Quips and Cranks
is a revitalized sports section, not
only to include more qualified

Departmental Heads Continue Critical Review of C

The final instaliment in
the series of self-analyses by
Davidson’s Department Chair-
men is contained in this is-
sue of the Davidsonian.

Reflecting the mounting
interest of the student body
in departmental changes
which have been made re-
cently or which are forth-
coming, the Davidsonien
asked the department chair-
men the following questions:

1. What are the changes
that have been made in your
department in the last three
years?

2 What improvements
would like fo see in your de-

partment in the next few
years?

3.Would you comment
further on the academic

standing of Davidson in re-
lation to other similar liberal
arts schools as you see it?

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY

Question 1. 1. Development of in-
strumental analysis in the course
in advanced quantitative analysis.

2. Installation of a department
shop. .

3. Visits to the campus by
prominent chemists, both acade-
mic and industrial. They make
talks and are available for quest-
ions and interviews by interested
students.

Question 2. The continuing
maintenance and adaptation of
current developments in under-
graduate chemistry curricula as
they appear, or as their need be-
comes apparent.

DEPARTMENT OF FRENCH

Question 1. In__ beginning
French new texts have been
chosen. Added stress has been
put on the usé of the spoken
language.

In French 21-22 and 31-32 we
have recently adopted some of
the newer review grammars, read-
ing texts and anthologies.

The course in the Contempor-
ary French Novel has been com-
pletely revised, with added at-
tention given to the psychologi-
cal and existentialist novelists.

Question 2. We would like to
see a modern language labora-
tory established in cooperation
with the other foreign language
departments, as is being done in
arts colleges. The ideal would be
that language students would
spend one or two hours in the
laboratory and receive partial
credit.

We would like to see place-
ment tests of various types in-
troduced for students of French
11-12 and 21-22, so that they
might be assigned to appropriate
sections,

Question 3. Davidson has made
great progress in recent years,
both from the point of view of
physical plant, additions to the
faculty, and in recruiting and
selection of high quality students.

writers, but also an enlargement
and centralization of all sports
within the book. This section
should be enlarged to give equal
and adequate coverage to all
sports. This could be accom.
plished by assigning a member
of the staff to each sport during
its entire season.

An annual is judged on the
quality of photography presented.
Herein lies a field where there
can always be improvement. Each
picture must be carefully planned
even before it is executed so that
the editors might envision its re-
lationship. to the overall organi-
zation of the book. The individual
portraits must also be improved;
more informal pictures; and a
more complete coverage of all
campus activities should be the
very basis on which the annual
is constructed.

be taken into consideration. It
should not be stilted and dull, but
fresh, accurate, consistent, and
readable. Not only should it pos-
sess these virtues, but it should
also balance with the photo-
graphy.

Other qualities which would
improve and ‘revitalize the pub-
lication would be a lasting and
unique cover, composed of a
conservative primary and_ secon-
dary color scheme. The use of
color photography,’ and a more
attractive print would also be
along this line. Printing and en-
graving must also be improved
upon. If this is not possible
through the companies now under

We still need to build up our
library. Consideration might be
given to reducing the teaching
load of some faculty members,
especially those giving new
courses.

DEPARTMENT OF
PSYCHOLOGY

Question 1. Changes
Phsychology Department
last three years.

in the
in the

A. The introduction of new
courses.
(1) Physiological Psychology
(1953)

(2) Psychology of Personality
(1953)

B. Considerable increase in the
annual budget with consequent
purchase of important apparatus
and films.

C. Changes in the courses re-
quired of majors allowing a wider
choice of courses for students
with various occupational aims.

D. The appointment of a third
member of the department for
1956-57 with the consequent ap-
proval of the following new
courses:

1. Systems of Psychology.

2. A second semester of experi-
mental psychology.

3. A senior seminar and the
possibility of smaller sections in

The copy is another aspect

contract, then a change is neces-
sary.

As this is a book representa-
tive of the Class of 1957, the de-,
cisions on major issues, such as
the dedication, should be decided
by ballot of the Class. The Class
is also entitled to be informed as
to the progress of the publication
through periodical reports
through the medium of the Da-
vidsonian. By thus bringing more
decisions to the Class itself, the
1957 Quips and Cranks can be
truly a publication of the Class
of 1957, to include not only their |
senior year, but a picture of their;
entire four year sojourn.

T believe that if the improve-
ments I have mentioned are car- ;
tied out the 1957 Quips and.
Cranks will meet th. challenge
that has been presen i to it by
the three preceeding sears, and
will be the best yet published.
If elected E promise to comply
with these. improvements, and
will publish a book that is truely
representative of the Class of
1957 and Davidson College.

Tom Morgan

Of Davidson's three major
publications the Quips and Cranks
alone is- permanent. Since this is
a book which will be kept and oc-
easionally thumbed through de-
cades from now, it is of utmost
importance that it be absolutely
accurate and contain material of
only the highest quality.

To strive to produce the finest

policies. |

As I see it, our greatest weak-
ness academically is in the over-:
valuation of. extra-curricular acti-
vities. I do not think that the
majority of our students regard
the academic, the intellectual, op-
portunities as the most important
aspect of going to college. I be-
lieve that some of our faculty
and administrative policies tend
to reinforce student emphasis on
non-intellectual interests.

Our second greatest weakness,
{ think, is in the prevalence of
anxiety among the students with
respect to tests (reviews) and
examinations. A student should
not be “panicked” by two or three
examinations in successive
periods. I think that the major
reason (but not the only one) for
the prevalent anxiety is the wide-
spread tendency toward cram-
ming, and I am rather certain
that the practice of cramming is
based largely on the emphasis on
extra-curricular functions. Notice, |
for example, how the current
method of fraternity rushing gets |
Freshmen and_ upperclassmen
nearly two weeks behind in their |
work: consequently the student |
must cram for his first reviews,
and while devoting exclusive at-
tention to one course gets further
behind in another. I believe that
the students themselves could

1t

.| achieved

Introductory Psychology, Individ-| remedy this situation without im-
ual Adjustment, and Business and pairing the effectiveness of their
Industrial Psychology. ' rushing.

Question 2. Desired Improve- Our third weakness, lack of
ments. spare and deficiency of books and}

I think that .we'll be primarily periodicals in the library, is rec-|
concerned for the next two or ognized by the administration and
three years with consolidating our|faculty and is being forced
gains and adding to our store of| realistically with some promise of
apparatus and films..I do not see | strengthening.
the likelihood of adding new

courses; I'd rather see the pre- MATHEMATICS
sent courses taught more ade- |
quately. A major aspect of the}; Question 1. Two advanced,

consolidation of our gains will,|courses, Projective Geometry and
I hope, be a greater emphasis on|Theory of Equations have been!
research by the members of our; dropped, the former having’ at-
staff. tracted few students, the latter,
Question 3. Comparative Acade-|being considered somewhat ob-,
mic Standing. solete. Vector analysis has been:
I think that we have a faculty|added as a result of a definite
as able as that of any school in|need (it is listed under Physics
our region. I think that the emph-|and Mathmatics). ;
asis is correctly placed. on teach-| Math 41, formerly taught as
ing as more important in the|Theory of Equations, is now
liberal arts college than individ-| taught as a higher algebra course.
ual research; but I think that,!| Parallel reading has been intro-:
without detracting from  the|duced into the freshman courses,
quality of instruction, we should} for the first time this year. An
increase the amount of quality|optional seminar is offered in
and research by our staff. This| statistics. No credit is given, but
can be accomplished (1) by re-| good attendance has been encour-
ducing the teaching load in two|aging. A letter is now sent out
ways: (a) decreasing the number|in the sumer to all incoming
of classroom hours for several|freshmen informing them of the
faculty members, and (b) estab-/5 options available to a freshman
lishing’ smaller sections for the|in Mathmatics and also pointing
courses with large enrollment,j out other matters of interest. This
and (2) by providing financial aid} year an optional meeting is plan-
for research materials and publi-|ned for any interested students
eation costs, The administration is|who want to find out what mathe-
taking steps in these directions.| matics in needed in various fields,
I think that we have a better|}what post-college opportunities
qualified student ‘body than mostjare available to mathematically
schools in our region, but I think| trained graduates, etc. Math 13
that we should be even more] will be open to any student next
vigorous in our  admissions|year with those who are expect-

yearbook __pos-
sible jis my
sole aim in
seeking elec:
ion. I believe
that this goal
can best. be
realized through :
a thorough
and dynamic
reorganization
and = revitaliza-
tions of th staff.

First, a concerted effort must
be made to enlarge the staff and
to enlist in its membership the
most talented literary and
graphic artists on campus. All
writers of organizational copy
must be selected early in Septem.
bor rather than at the last

a.

Morgan

minute. Contrary to custom they |

will be asked to become regular
members of the staff attending
all its meetings. Thus, they will
gain a perspective. of the entire
book and the place of their con-
tribution to the whole.

The staif should be woll in-
formed on the progress of the
book and should function actively
throughout the year. This can be
through semi-monthly
mectings of the entire staff and
weekly meetings of the section
editors. At these mectings pro-
gress will be checked and the
staff will consult on any matters
concerning makeup of the book.
These frequent meetings will in-
sure, first, that deadlines will be
met and consequently the book
will be published early. Second,
they will insure that the book
will. not be mercly a creation

ing to enter the science field
urged to take it. The division in-
to Math 10, 11, will be made next
year at the beginning of school
on the basis of a placement test
and the College Entrance Exams.
Formerly the division has been
‘made several weeks alter College
opened.

Question 2. The addition of
several advanced courses’ such as
complex variable, modern alge
bra, elementary topology. modern
geometry. A course introduced at
an elementary: level to present
the idea of what mathematics is,
how a mathematical - science is
developed, how mathematics fits
into the development of human

thought through the centuries,
such a course would not be
“easier” than the more techni-

a

What is the structure of mathematics? What is the postula- |
tion method? What is the relation of, mathematics to scientific

method? Why has mathematics

technological advances and in our cultural heritage? Answers to
these questions and to related ones will be the aim of an experi-
mental freshman course to be offered by the Mathematics De-

partmnt next year.

At a recent meeting of the Curriculum Committee the Mathe- :
matics Department was given permission to set up two sections
of approximately fifteen men cach from next year's freshman.
class to take such a course. Only non-science students will be
admitted to these classes and no one will be required to enroll in
one. An explanation will be made to prospective students that

this is an experiment designed
whether a course can be offered

value to the non-science major than the present algebra-trigonome-
try combination. This course will not be a watered-down mathe-
matics offering intended for those men who can not pass Mathe-
matics 11-12, but will be an effort to furnish a more stimulating
and interesting approach for men who will have little use for
the technical procedures and manipulative abilities that Mathe-
matics 11-12 are supposed to develop. If the course proves to be
successful it will probably be opened in subsequent years to all
of those freshmen whose future careers will be of a non-scientific

nature.

———SEjEeoeEye—— EE .
i ine the extent and : .
uated to determine . tquest of the faculty. The regula.

cal elementary courses but should
appeal to the student who does
not expect to use the technical
skills developed in mathematics
and yet who does. want to know
something of the processes of
mathematical reasoning.

Question 3. I assume you mean
here, the standing mathematic-
ally. We are making an honest

‘effort to keep our offerings in

tine with those of other liberal
arts schools with which we like
to be compared. Our students who
have gone on for graduate study
in mathematics, physics, physical-
chemistry have made very credi-
table records in graduate school.
We try to keep in touch with
these men and frequently make
changes in material offered as a
result of their suggestions.

R.0.T.C. DEPARTMENT

Question 1. The. major changes
are as follows:

A. In September of 1954, a sys-
tem of “Applicatory Leadership
Training” was introduced by this
department. Under this system.
the operation and administration
of the Cadet Corps was delegated
to the cadets themselves, with
the Army personnel acting sole-

Young

chooses me. ‘the

ly in a supervisory capacity. This
system was inaugurated in order
to better teagh the. student the
following mator principles, which
will be useful to him both in
civilian life and the Army.

(1) The principles of organiza.
tion.

(2) The functioning
“Chain of Command.”

(3) Administration.

(4) How to “think on their feet”
and express their ideas to others,

(5) The responsibilitics of Jead
ership and command.

(8) How to make decisions.

(7) Self confidence in his. ability
to meet and cope with problems.

This system of operation. has
proven to be highly successful.
creating a better understanding
of the program, and causing a

the

be tempered by suggestions and|the final decisions fall to the

contain no radical deviations | volved and my obligations to the

placed on quality and accuracy.|the senior class. If clected, I am
in one section which will pro-! devote the utmost of my time and
view of the year's athletic activ-

Ed Young

this year, if the fraternities con- | oun

year will be presented in one .son’s Quips and Cranks, his com-

giving emphasis to more impor: was thought but ne’re so well

tensively throughout. More. cm- ward originality at saying the
will be taken ngt to include any every yenr' for

Copy will provide a running | nual’ for next

be made to provide interesting ‘diligent trials

In general the annual will de- and art work

It will be your annual and sug-| book's editor.

Finally, regardless of, a well!and Cranks “will be the picking
the Applicatory System of Lead-
ing derived from the system.
chide more varied use of visual

of

C. More extensive counseling of
students. to explain their military
riculuni has in ‘the defense of the
dents, faculty and administration.
colleges. in. the south. and among

from the editor’s ideas, but will|of the work and the majority of

advice from a competent staff. editor. IT am fully aware of the
As for the book itself, it will|tremendous — responsibility — in-

from the general yearbook pat-' members of the student body and

tern. Emphasis rather will bej especially you, the members of
The overall appearance will be| prepared to accept these respon-

tailored. Sports will be collected! sibilities and obligations and to

vide additional space and will \ effort to the production of a year-

present a complete and organized | book of which you will be proud.

ities. The fraternity section will

remain the increased size it is

tinue to approve this system. ‘ If Atexander Popd were asked
The various activities of the to edit the 1957 edition of David-

large section. which will attempt: ment upon the completion of his

to trace them = chronologically, 'task would surely be: “What ott

tant events. expressed.” Every college an-
Photographs will be used eX pual's attempts are direeted to-

phasis will be placed on informal (hings that,

snapshots of campus life. Care’ pave peen said '

group or individuals too fre- egintless de

quently. eades. ‘The an-

commentary to punctuate these, year will be

photographs. Special effort) witl: the recipient of

and readable copy and clever cut-/al uniqueness

lines for the snapshots. iboth in copy

pict you, the Davidson student.!if the rising

in all areas of your life at school.!senior class

gestions will always be welcomed] First. and foremost aniong the
from you. choices of the editor of the Quips

organized and capable staff, much{of « manner of layout. There arc

o

UTTICULUM
ership Training, with decided em-
phasis on improvement of train-

B. Continuation of a rise. in
standards of instruction to in-
aids and improvement in methods
ot instruction.
individual students.

D. Cuntinued orientation of all
obligation to their country and
the important position this cur-
nation in order to create better
understanding among the — s(u-

Question 3. A IT would rank
Davidson’ among the. top 5° of
the top 25° of colleges in the

nation.

BUSINESS
ADMINISTRATION

Question 1. The Dept. of Busi-
ness Administration is a new de.
partment, ‘established only last
year, A “core” course curriculum
has been éstablished, covering the

played such a vital role in our

major areas of business admini-
stration functions. In addition
some clective courses have been
retained, A ‘teaching method quite
now at the undergraduate level
has been instituled in some of the
recourses. This is the “case
method.” Greater responsibility
far preparation,, thinking analyti-
catly and creatively has been
placed on the s{udent. More’ oral
anc written expression of ideas.
‘thinking and decision making is
' reqtiired.

' Question 2. ‘We. believe that
four curriculum must be revised
feontinually and that our teaching
i ttiethods: must be. continually. eval-

for the purpose of determining
that will be of more interest and

marked rise in “esprit de corps"; manner in which “learning” is
of the unit and the morale of the|or is’ net taking place. ‘To this
individuals concerned, in addition|end we are analyzing the con-

‘to material benefits gained by|tent and methods existing in in-

the students. dividual courses and comparing
B. The department nas occupied ‘the abjectives ef the respeetive

new quarters in Belk Dormitory, , courses,

The present facilities are among; We hope that the Business.

the finest in the south and have| Economies Association which we

contributed materially to the|took the lead in establishing will

quality of instruction presented continue to increase its cffective-

by the department, since they al-|ness in mare live. contact between
low greater lattitude in the use|students and the active business
of visual aids, counseling of stu-| world.

dents, maintenance and admini-| peparTMENT OF SPANISH
strative facilities.

C. The standards of instruction} Question. A. The Department
presented by the department have | of Spanish has added for ‘its Span:
been materially improved due to:|ish Majors a Minor in Business.

(1) Facilities available for pre-| Through the years other minors
sentation of instruction. were possible, but this year this

(2) Greater and more varied use| new Business Minor has been
of visual aids. added in order to further equip

(3) Formation of central lesson|our majors for careers in firms
plan and reference files for each} that require this added training.
hour of instruction presented. B. New Courses: (1) Spanish 52-

(4) Inauguration of a system of | Advanced Composition (Advanced
review of all wrss, reviews and| composition, including training in
examinations by a board of offi-| correspondence)
cers prior to their administration} (2). Spanish 81—A Survey of
and a review of their validity} Spanish-American Literature (The
after administration. most important works of Spanish-
’ (5) Rehearsals of instruction| American prose and poetry. Con-
prior to presentation. ducted in Spanish.).

Question 2. A. Continuation of! Question 2. The Spanish Depart-

many ways in which to be origin-
al in presenting the Davidson
story which is not a static panora-
ma. It seems to me that existence
here. at Davidson unfolds in,a
Series of chapters, much like a
novel. There is, in the beginning,
class life followed
scholastie
by membership in the honorary
fraternities. The next phase is
the many faeeted student govern-
ment. which should tend to unite
all the students. Chapter four
would be the oné devoted to aeti-
vities centered around the vari-

ous social fraternities. The fifth
chapter is the one which con-
‘tains the many athictic teams

Which represent the college. In
{ this tentative blueprint of a lay-
‘out there has been no space ab
lowed for mention of the faculty,
administration, and muny. other
organizations whose presenee in
ithe book is very necessary.

Once the ordef of presentation
has been decided upon the next

question is ‘tha,.ot the manner
of presentation. Primary in im-
portance, as one peruses a year
book. jis the quality as well “ag
quintity of the art work: Photo-
graphy (is a véry cxacting seience,
and Davidson is-indeed. fortanate
to claim an expert in this field as
a member of its student body.
However, the task of taking all
the pictures for a yearbook is
too. elephanline to be placed on
the shoulders of .a single indivi-
dual. Photeyraphical opportuni-
ties to fidd to the annual’s store-
house of pictures will ‘be offered
to the once 4 month photographer

LITTLE Man ON CAMPUS

E MIO 710 \
WN STSSENTS!

who sometimes gets an in focus
snapshot. It is good practice to
have a picture exchange with
other schools in order to get com-
plete coverage of off campus
athletic events as well as other
activities, There should .be the

closely by, usual section devoted to the glori-
attainment recognized | ous radiance of femininity and a

‘kodachrome to inject a certain
amount of color to the book.

When the pictures have been
scrutinized the casual page flip-
per often stops to read a line
or two of the copy. Shakespeare
j said “brevity is the soul of wit,”
and this should hold true for the
[written complement of a year
book. In order to prevent any bias
a man from each fraternity and
organization, both social and
‘honorary, should produce the
‘copy for his group. Each social
fraternity should again’ be al-
‘lowed four pages to present its
‘individual, yearly story. The com-
;pleted written material should
ithen be edited and be made uni-
form by that one with the- ambig-
;uous tithe of editor. .
; It is impossible to present, in
“an article of this length all the
‘policies one would want to in-
‘eorporate in a publication. Hur-
iriedly I would mention that the
;cover should be attractive and
durable; there should be a second
color; and there should be an
efficient business staff to aug-
ment the funds provided. by the
students.

The foregoing then is my plat-
form for the editorship of the.
Quips and Cranks. I thank you for
struggling through the article.

by Dick Sibler

CHoOsE your

WORDS cag

FOR These ut
YOUR LAS

J IN THS CFFKE,

Yes, one other time a student complained about a course of mine

—why do you ask?

|A STATEMENT FROM THE STUDENT
FACULTY CONFERENCE COMMITTEE

In accordance with a motion

fraternities by the IFC.

_ 2) The faculty and the admin.
istration of the college are re-
peatedly urged by representatives

passed at the closed: student body
meeting several ‘weeks ago the
Student-Facults .Conferenec Com-
mittee inct this week to discuss] of the national fraternities to put
the faculty. attude towards the} restrictive curbs on Hell Week
practice. of Hell Week. The fol-, practices,
lowing facts came out of this} 3) The Faculty Committee on
meeting: Fraternity and Social Life and the

1) Tho plan Chat sas followed. Interfraternity Council have met
this year was originated by the | Several ie to discuss this ae

nid y Wye ;{ ation. _concerne stu

Interfraternity Council at the re |should attempt to work through
; their Interfraternity Council mem.
{ber and are urged to contact mem-
bers of the Faculty Committee if
they wish to discuss the issue.

4) The faculty feels that it is

tions were imposed -by the Inter
fraternity Council and. the Council
carried out the entire program
As a result of infractions of rules
fines were imposed on individuald.

control over Hell Week. This is
ment has requested that. a dan. done not only in the interests of
guage laboratory become: an inte-) the fraternity men seeking initia-
gral part of its teaching proxram.: tion but also in the interests of
and: is happy to say that. it-is NOW fraternities in general. Instances
in the budget for next year. With’ such as the unfortunate accident
a language lab operating and the at MIT this winter serve to harm
lemphasis placed on. oral Spanish. alt fraternities everywhere.
pour department thinks that place-! 5) Quite a few of the freshmen
‘ment tests should be given (o stu: pow on probation place part of
dents entering Spanish 11-12 and the blame of their academic
Spanish 21-22 in order to deter-| failure directly to the stresses of
miné their ability, so that they can| Hell Week. Some of this is ration.
be sectioned accordingly. In this! alization but some is undoubtedly
way, these students could be trye.
taught at the proper rate of speed, These are the facts and reasons
and the instruction they receive| behind the Hell Week policy as
would be much more effective. | followed this year. The faculty in
Question 3. It is the opinion of|no way wishes to take complete
the Department of Spanish that| control of fraternities or to abolish
Davidson College stands within the|them. The best way of working
first five per cent of the colleges| out a mutual understanding would
of the South from the standpoint] seem to be to work -through the
tof academic rating. On the other; Interfraternity Council which has
,hand it is our belief that our .na-| given the matter much consider-
‘tional academic rating would place} ation. The Student Government is
_us down the ladder in the area of! always. ready to discuss this issue
jthe top twenty-five per cent col-|and to take direetives from the
_leges: student body. Perrin Anderson

‘entirely necessary to exert some.
