Cat's Meow

LEON HOWELL
Hobby. All-Conference In Spite of Sport's Writers

No one athlete has received as much recognition during
the past four years here at Davidson as Hobby Cobb. For his
outstanding play and leadership, he has been a topic of fre-
quent mention in the Davidsonian as well as the Charlotte |
papers. And because of his national prominence in basketball,
he has certainly deserved every word of it.

For a boy who is at present 23rd in the nation in scoring |

CRUSH CITADEL, 29-9
Last Saturday Davidson's wrest-| score stood twelve to twelve.
lers won their 3rd meet in a row In the 143 Ib. class Captain Riet-
by defeating the Citadel twenty to zel Snider gave his usual steady
nai ot Chaslecton: The Cats. i performance, and decisioned Cadet
in dale sans ‘ee vin Taylor. Big Dave Regent wrestled
— . ah pe . Aha aan his man into a loss and grabbed
ling 177, was devisioned by Dzonis the heavyweight: cites Str: tite Wile

_ s ; cats, while Lai Wright did the
for Citadel's only win. Although same in the prem pov Wright
Davidson kept control of the meet, | ; '

must have been an occasion for
the Cadets fought hard and well,

: mixed emotions for the Cadet
¢ or ‘ —
and Pete Coleman,, wrestling 123, coach, He wrestled at the Citadel
was the only man to win by a pin.

as a freshman.

Probably the biggest surprise of
the meet was given to Dzonis,
Westervelt’s opponent. Westervelt
was small and green. Dzonis was

Another indication of the close-
ness of the meet is the fact that
there were three ties. Butch Neale |
tied in the 130 Ib. class, along with

(23 points per game average), 8th in field goal percentage | Henry Griffin in the 137 Ib. class
(sinking a little better than one of every two shots), and 20th in| and Richie King in the 177 Ib.
rebound percentage, it seems to me to be slightly ludicrous | “!*ss. Griffin's tie was something of
that, being from Davidson, he may very well be left off the | * essethagagy bg yee
all-conference team. Yet unless he is extremely fortunate, this, | Hein tepals. ab habe eam, Manele
one of Davidson's greatest athletes, will miss the honor he} match was also outstanding. He

big and experienced. When he
came out on the mat, you could
tell he knew this. In a few seconds
he was flat on his back. When
he got up his mouth hung a little
open. He had respect. From then
on he

most deserves.

On Tuesday of next week, we shall have our last chance
to see the Wildcats of this year on the hardwood. Not only
does the team need your support, but it is the last opportunity
the student body has to pay tribute to Davidson's All-Confer-
ence athlete, poll or no poll.

Records and Such

During the past week the swimming team here at David-
son has produced two fine victories over Emory and Clemson
and probably added another to the books this afternoon. Over-
shadowing the team feats, however, has been the individual
brilliance of several performers as they shattered existin
records.

“Old Man River’ (Tommy) has kept rolling up new
standards in the 100 yard free style, with 55 seconds flat the
latest recording. Bill Carrell, the flashy medley artist, tagged
a 2 minute, 31 second tab on the sheet in the 200 yard individ-
ual medley. John Edwards lowered the 200 yard breast-stroke
to a new time of 2.43.8. Congratulations are due both the team
and the individuals for these efforts.

Charlotte’s Colossal Coliseum

Charlotte, a city proud of a great number of things, has
a perfect right to strong exclamations such as colossal when
it refers to its magnificent Coliseum-Auditorium network.

wrestled hard but with
caution—-caution and respect.
Bill Warlick helped round out

and his man, Renko, gave what
Was probably the best exhibition of
the meet. They were evenly|the program by wrestling an ex-
matched, and when they. crawled | hibition match with Schenkel, the
off the mat for the final time the/ Citadel's assistant coach.

Swimmers Enter Conference Thursday;
Humble Emory, Clemson as Records Fall

By TED DINGLER
Thursday afternoon, February 23, the Davidson swim-
mers leave to do battle in the Southern Conference Swimming

Cagers
=f

With only one scheduled round

have moved into the lead of the
Interfraternity basketball race
They need only one vietory over
their remaining two opponents, the
Kappa Sigs and Phi Delts, to win
the top position. The Betas
knocked the ATOs out of first
place this week by beating them
}41 to 32. Earlier last week the
ATO’'s had moved into league lead
by defeating the Sigma Chis, the
lone victors over the Betas.

In other action this week, the
| SAEs overwhelmed the Indepen-
| dents 63 to 38. Davis was — high
| scorer with 22 of the loser’s points
| The Phi Gams, led by. Sugg with 22
land Comer with 15, had little dif-
ficulty in downing the Pikas 71 to
| 31. Both Brooks ‘and ‘Pharr hit 10
| points for the Pikas. Long hit for

20 points to take top honors for

the Sigma Chis in their win over
|the Kappa Sigs, but Brewer with
| 22 took top honors for the game
The Phi Delts edged the SPEs by

By BILL PITSER

remaining to be played the Betas |

There are few, if any, rivals to these plants in America.

|

The attraction of this, as well as some outstanding presen- |
tations, has apparently regenerated some sporting enthusiasm |
in a notoriously poor sports-supporting city. It has also furn-|

ished an outlet for Davidson students who are interested in the

more polished professional events.
Several students were present when Bob Cousy et al dis-

tangled with Floyd in that classic duel.
Golden glove bouts in all their rabid enthusiasm, the ice
ballet, and now ice skating have drawn and will draw from

here. Undoubtedly the most exciting discovery has been the)

introduction of ice hockey to a Southern area. Admittedly | This past weekend, the David-

the best brand around, its speed and roughness have made |
many fans here, nevertheless. There are even prospects of a

league team for Charlotte in the future.

With the advent of this emporium, big time events such |
as the Gonzales-Trabert match tomorrow will add spice to the)
athletic agenda of fans here at Davidson.

The Grim Reaper

Baseball has been unusually hard hit by the grim reality
of death recently. Not only has Connie Mack, the true patriarch
of baseball, passed away, but such legendary figures as Honus
Wagner, greatest infielder of all time, Cy Young, winningest
pitcher, Clark Griffith (the “Old Fox”), Buck Weaver, and Billy

Evans have passed away.

SPRING MERCHANDISE IS COMING
IN EVERY DAY NOW!
Drop By and i the New
Cotton Sportcoats -- Dacron-Cotlon Suits
Dacron-Wool Suits

GET THE FACTS ON THESE
i
WONDER FABRICS

Wilson-Wright’s

|
i | places,
played their magic with the basketball, when Davidson and | third: ‘According to Coach Ham
Furman initiated the round ball season, and when “Hot Rod’’| bright, the same is expected. this

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

Phone ED. 2-8257

118 West Trade Street

Championship, held this year at Virginia Military Institute in a three point margin 38 to 35. Mc-
Lexington, Virginia. The meet, which lasts through Saturday, | Intosh and Inman with 12 and 11
February 25. will pit teams from most of the Southern Con-| Tespectively sparked the KAs-to a
ference schools against each other in all the various forms |
of the swimming art. |

As Davidson has (at this writ-
ing) no entry the 1500-meter
event, the team will not take part}
in Thursday's competition, but will)
spend part of that evening prac-|
ticing in the VMI Friday's |
events are principally freestyle, |
backstroke, and diving, while Sat-|
urday’s add to these breaststroke |
and diving finals

So far, the teams entered are:
The Citadel, West Virginia, VMI,

»

ten events in the Emory meet,
as Rivers and Carrell were
again the top men. Rivers re-
peated his performance against |
Clemson as he took the 50- and |
100-yd. dashes. Carrell won the
200-yd. individual medley and
the 200-yd. backstroke. Em-
ory’s best showing was by Em-
ery Schonberg, who won two
of their three events: the 200.
and 440-yd. freestyle. Emory
also won the 400-yd. team re-

By NED PAYNE

During the past two weeks Coach
Carroll Hambright has taken two
| dunkings in the Davidson pool, as
lthe Wildeat tankmen successfully
| started their fourth season in the
} water world. Coach Hambright
"currently leading the swimmers to

pool

Is

| VPI, Washington & Lee, und Da- lay. The final score was 54-30, | Education. While at Clemson, he
vidson. In past years, VMI and’ Davidson. At the conclusion played two years under Frank
VPI have held first and second) of the meet, the team im- Howard before an injury ended

mersed Coach Hambright in |
the pool, fully clothed.

“| expect varsity records to
start to fall any time now.”
This statement from Coach V4
Hambright is said in reference
to next weekend’s meet with COACH HAMBRIGHT
the University of South Caro- ; 3
lina at the Davidson pool Fri- | their third successive winning sea-
day afternoon. _—

According to Coach Hambright,| Coach Hambright came to Da

with Davidson a_ close

year. “The reason we are not
higher up in the standings is our
lack. of depth.” Our best wishes
to Coach Hambright and the squad:

Catfish Sink Clemson

|

son Catfish won out over Clemson
and Emory of Atlanta in two meets

and the 100-yd. dash in :55.0 see-
onds. Carrell won the 150-yd. indi-
vidual medley in 2:33.5 minutes.
Carter and Hendee were high men
for the visitors.

Davidson took seven out of

most of our opponents have been team, and finally teaches Physical
scholarship - implemented teams, | TT#i"ing classes

The team is in its best shape so} Since his arrival here at David
far this season, and has made vast} son, Coach Hambright has become
und rapid improvement in the last} known as the man who asked for
two weeks. and got that “little extra effort’

Davidsonian Salutes Coach Hambright

54 to 34 win over the Pi Kapps.

are:

The standings through this week |

Finale

BASKETBALL
HOBBY COBB FOR LAST TIME

By CHARLES McGOWAN
Tuesday night will be the last chance for the followers
|of the Wildcats to see their team in action on their home

GREAT
TUESDAY

court. The game will be with a non-conference team—the
Terriers of Wofford.' : :
This game is of: particular sig- | Cats this week in preparation for

nificance not only because it is the | their fast attach.
last game of the season, but also| Both Cobb and Harding will be

Team w L | because it is the last game which} Missed by the Cagers of Davidson
Beta 8 1 the two outstanding seniors, Cobb| next year. Cobb, who has an aver-
ATO 8 2 (and Harding, will be playing on} age of 22.7 points per game, is the
Sigma Chi } 2 the campus. We will not forget! first student in the history of the
Kappes Sig 5 3. | however that we are not playing college to break 1,000 points dur-
Phi Delt 5 4 the game for sentimental purposes|ing his college career. Harding’s
SAE 5 4 | but for the purpose of winning 14.6 point average proves his place
SPE 4 5 The team which the Cats will| of importance on the team also.
KA 4 6 clash with Tuesday night is a team] The sports staff pays tribute this
Phi Gam 3 5 |With plenty of power behind it | week to the entire basketball squad
cc 2 7 prensa neg rs know wo which has done an outstanding job
‘ streng ecause ey were de-j : :
* a : ° feated twice last year by the Ter.| is pow - > i
riers: The Wolford: team is known take our hats off to the two boys
IFC HANDBALL for its fast break so therefore| Who will be leaving us this year—
Sag nN 0 Coach Seott has been drilling the| Cobb and Harding.
Sigma Chi 9 eI ae
Phi Delt % 2 P pad
“. | ? Harding Wildcat of Week
Kappa Sig 7 3 ‘ ‘
Phi Gam 5 6 | To one of the Cats’ most dangerous threats on the h
Pi Kapp 4 5 | nae or é‘ nerd
Pies ; ; | wood goes this week's athletic honors. Ray Harding scored 31
cc 3 7 | points last Saturday night to lead Davidson to its 90 to 86
KA 1 8 | victory over the College of Charleston. Ray, in his best per-
poo 0 8 formance of the season hit with consistency on both his long
0 ae

teams.
ill, and his
to win has
fine record

which produces winning
Carroll is well-liked by
enthusiasm and desir:
been. reflected in the
made by his teams,

Coach Hambright is a native of
Greenville, S. C., played. football,
basketball, and ran track for his
high sehool, In 1943, Carroll grad-
uated from Clemson with a BS. in

his career on the gridiron,
Following his college © gradua-'!
tion, Coach Hambright worked at
Furman University where he was |
Director of the War Training Ser-
vice Program. He then coached at!
Dalton (Ga:) High’ Sehool, before
moving to Columbia Military Acad

cepted Dole’s offer and has been
here at Davidson ever since.

This past summer Coach Ham
bright worked with Chuck Clem-
ents in summer school at Appala- |
chian. While at the North State

When classes are through
And your girl’s close to you
Here’s a good thing to do—have a CAMEL!

It's a psychological fact:
Pleasure helps your disposi

— more people get more

No other cigarette is so

If you're a smoker, remember

pure pleasure from Camels
than from any other cigarette

rich-tasting, yet so mild !

shots and driving lay-ups.

The performance upped Ray’s
} total points to 306 and his average
. to 13.9 points a game, making him
the Cats’ second highest scorer. He
has been in the double figures in

all except five of this season's
fames. Ray is a confident ball
handler who always presses the

Opposition and manages to break
jtoward the basket if given the
jleast opening. His driving type of
}play has been a major factor in
the Wildeats’ offensive game.
| Ray’s home is in Marion, North
Carolina where he lettered in three
major sports while at high school.
In basketball he made the all-
} tournament team three timés and
}also the all-eonference team during
his senior year. He was a member
lof the baseball team, and in foot-
ball was selected to the All-Wes-
}tern North Carolina squad.
; A leader in his fraternity, Ray
| serves as the Inter-fraternity. Coun-
|cil representative for the Sigma

RAY HARDING

emy. From 194649 he was Head
|Coach at Charlotte Tech High} College he obtained his Masters | Chis
School, It was in 1948 that Coach Degree Congratulations to Ray Harding,

in as many days. The meets, which we are swimming USC ‘blind,’ as| V'd8on in 1952 from Greer (South Hambright first met Bill Dole ani: aici eins tai | Wilaeet of the Week.
were both held here, were over-' we know almost nothing about) ©@elina) High School and _ has while the two coached in he come to Davidson os has a
whelming successes for the tank- their strength. Hambright. is| ‘@*€n over numerous positions. in ssceengglinonigiing —— = taken a once unknown sport | GOLF NOTICE!
men. 2 quoted as saying, “I hope we win, the athletic department since that ae conee at Greer’ High: Sehool on the campus and turned out ‘
Davidson's standouts in the! so as to close our season with a| time Coach Hambright. serves as’ '" South Carolina in 1950-52. His cite: gost When the The 1956 Davidson College golf
Clemson meet were Tommy. Riv- 5-5 won-lost record, which is very an assistant to Coach Dole on the | entry — the college ranks: came Conference Meet ‘ts held at indete tan pen eames te
lers and Bill Carrell. Rivers took good. considering our schedule.” | f90tball field, as assistant track |" 1952, when Bill Dole was build-| yay) lates: ile eats. Sn | Athletic: Divector De: Tom poh
the 50-yard dash in :24.7 seconds, He also mentioned the fact that C#¢). ® coach of the swimming '"é his staff. Coach Hambright ac bright will have e:.strengteem |and a meeting of all interested

parties called
Dr. Scott announced that
there would be a meeting of
all those interested in going
out for the golf team, Monday,
February 20, during chapel
period in Johnston Gym.
VARSITY SCHEDULE
15—Rollins (H)
20—N..C. State (T)
23—Furman '(T)
24—Citadel (T)
28—No. Ill. St. Coll. (A)
5—Wofford (T)
6—Presbyterian (H)
12—Furman (H)
13—Citadel (H)
16—N. C. State (H)
19—-Presbyterian (H)
20—Wofford (H)
May 3-5—Conference Tourney.

in contention. This year Coach
Hambright has many fine
swimmers like Capt. Ed Spier,
Tom Rivers, Bill Carrell, Ba-
sil Sharp, Stafford Querry, and
John Edwards,

March

April

The Wildcats split two bas-
ketball games last weekend on
their own court. The Friday
night game with Washington
and Lee was nearly an even
match, but the Cats were de-
feated by a score of 75.85.
| Then on Saturday night the
| Cats came back for revenge by

tearing into the College of
| Charleston and gained a vic-
| tory with the score being 90-

| Drinl

tion.

‘M
O
O
| > 44

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery. ine.

