LISTED
(Page 3)

SENIOR SCHOLARSHIPS

a Basiisoninn

SAVER COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1956

The National Intercollegiate
Bridge Tournament on February 23

will climax an active second semes- |”

ter for the Davidson Bridge Club.

Regular meetings are planned for
January 26 and February 14. In
the tournament, sixteen players
from Davidson will compete with
the nation’s best undergraduate
bridge players by playing dupli-
cate Contract Bridge under uni-
form regulations. Winning teams
and individual champions will re-

ceive recognition for campus, re-
gional, and national level com-
petition.

During the first semester, the
club held a campus-wide tourna- |
ment won by Mrs. S. R. Spencer
and Dan Lafar and sponsored an
exhibition game featuring a bridge
expert. On January 10, each of the
fifty bridge club members brought
a guest to the meeting in an effort
to .interest students and towns-
people in duplicate bridge and to
increase the membership of the
club.

The club was formed last year
with Mr. J, C. Postell, of Charlotte,
as director. About twenty-five stu-
dents and the same number of
townspeople are members of the
club, and any bridge player is wel-
come to play as a guest.

Results of the duplicate tourna-
ment held in the College Union on
January 10 are as follows: North-
South: First, Dr. and Mrs Spencer;
second, Rush Wilson and Warren
McCall; third, Joe Brown and Andy
Watson; fourth, Bill Tedford and
J. M. Tait. East-West: First, Dr.
and Mrs. Workman; second, Larry
Champion and S. D. Maloney; third,
Dr. and Mrs. McGavock; fourth,
Dan LaFar, and Huger King. There

13th drill.

Just before the Christmas
ber 13, 1955, Mr. R. D. Hall of
of the Davidson College ROTC

The visit was of particular. sig-
nificance because Mr. Hall was the
first student commander of the Da-
vidson College military unit, com-
manding a battalion of the ROTC
in 1918-1919.

from Davidson, and who was active
in class athletics, publications, and
oratory, said, “I was delighted at!
the wonderful exhibition by the |
cadet corps, and tremendously im-
pressed by the cadet briefing and
the departmental facilities.

were ten tables participating.

“There has been an unbelievable

“From ite meager begining in T9A8 with one washivb and
three employees .

KNOW YOUR COLLEGE

|
|

BY ALLEN SMITH

Outstanding among the facts and figures boasted by Man-
ager C. W. Stacks of the Davidson College Laundry is the
number of buttons replaced monthly on student clothing.

About 1261 of these indespensa-
able articles were sewed on gar-
ments (note: In an unofficial count
it was found that about 1500 were
ripped off) during March, 1955. We
must consider the above figures as
not too breath-taking when we
learn that during the same menth
over 160,000 pieces of clothing
were cleaned and returned, often
to their original owners.
Although the laundry at.times
may be the object of sarcastic hu-
mor and the workers often hear
numerous student complaints, this
institution indeed has an enviable
record, From its meager beginning
in 1928 with one washtub and three
employees, it has grown to be one
of the outstanding college laun-
dries in the South. A weekly aver-
age washing of 14,200 pounds is
handled by some fifteen competent

fifteen years, and a few boast thirty
years. |

At a recent ‘board meeting of |
the managers of school laundries
in North and South Carolina, Mr.
Stacks was surprised and pleased |
when he learned that our laundry)
has certain advantages over similar |
concerns at other schools. In the |
departments of individual student |
cost and speed of handling our |
local group excels in its work.

In Chapel Hill a student must!
deal with a great many details in|
order to wear clean clothes each)

week. A deposit of twenty dollars|the competition. They were then | gan to study in earnest. He came
per term is paid in advance, and chosen by a State Committee of! to the United States and studied
if the student exceeds this amount | Selection to go forward as one of! at the

of laundry service, his clothes are |
held there until the balance is sub-
mitted. At The Citadel a definite
limit is set on the amount of laun-
dry sent in my each student. A set
amount is charged for every item
over this limit. Davidson is also
unique among all Southern schools
in its system of taking in and pick-
ing up the laundry, a system which
is only a small part of our
larger Honor System. Finally, it is
interesting that we have the only
dry cleaning unit in a school in
(Continued On Page Six)

me)
| cadets will have to use the

| and
Mr. Hall, who graduated in 1919) ROTC.” He concluded that,

Mr. R. D. Hall of Belmont, pins his new insignia on Cadet Lt. Col.
Tom Owen as Lt. Col. John D. Sapp looks on during the December

Visits ROTC Unit

holidays, on Tuesday, Decem-
Belmont, N. C., was the guest
Cadet Regiment

change over the beginning of the
corps; and it was a tremendous
thrill to me in coming back. My
nly hope is that none of these
science
learned in
“It was
truly great to see this part of the
national defense in such competent
hands.”

Mr. Hall's itinerary
| included a briefing by the
Regimental Staff, a conference
| with senior Cadet Commanders and
|; the Regimental Staff, a tour of the
| ROTC facilities, and an observation
of the Cadet Corps during their
Tuesday afternoon inspection and
drill.

The ROTC was fortunate to re-

skill they have

at Davidson
Cadet

nian of several generations

in that day.

the ROTC re.

Fred G. Myers
Davidson, has become the school’s
eleventh Rhodes Scholar. He is one |”

of 32 students representing 30
states and 23 colleges who will en-
ter Oxford University, England,
next fall for at least two years of |
study in the fields of their choice. |
Myers plans to read for the Honour.|
School of English Language and
Literature, one of the 26 colleges
which make up the University.
Myers and the 31 other winners

lwere selected in a process which
}takes place in three stages
| they were designated by the presi
|dent or other responsible

First,

official

Winning Rhodes scholarships
has become almost routine at
Davidson College. There may
be another small liberal arts
college that has won as many
scholarships as Davidson, but
if so it has not been well ad-
vertised.

This year for the eleventh
time a Davidson student has
won this coveted award and
proved again that this college
deserves its reputation for hav-
ing one of the highest scholas-
tic standards in the country.
Davidson wins scholarships
where other colleges win foot-
ball games.

—Charlotte Observer

of their colleges to participate in

the state's two nominees to appear
before a District Committee com-
prising six states. Finally they
were named by the District Com-
mittee to receive one of the four
Rhodes Scholarships allotted to
each of the eight districts in this
country.

When the Rhodes Scholarships
were founded in 1903, under the
provisions of the will of Cecil
Rhodes, this award constituted a
pioneer effort in the field of inter-
national educational exchange. The

winters

Three Fraternities © DAVIDSON GIFT FUND DRIVE BEGINS FEB. 1;

| social fraternities have elected new

| ings

ceive from Mr. Hall several clip-'
| pings from issues of the Davidso-
ago
telling of the work of the ROTC!
These clippings were |
posted on the bulletin board in|

au senior here at}

ElectNew Officers FOREIGN AND LOCAL PROJECTS SELECTED

The Davidson College Gift Fund Drive begins on February
1 and lasts through March 1. This year the Gift Fund Commit-
slates of officers at their last meet-| tee has a two-fold aim: First, to educate the student body in
These three elect twice ai the two fields which have en for us to invest our

year those whq to lead and) money and second, to encourage students to contribute’
represent them in their me etings | re were two projects

For the coming semester three

been cho
are

selected

|

—_ over the campus. The fraterni- ill T n and a loeal project. ‘The
oy which nave new executives are | ta rt 0 ive project is the buying of
Pi. Kappa Phi, Sigma Alpha Epsi cecivers- foran educational

Jon, and Sigma Chi in the southern Philippine

of these receivers
ibout 20 people. This station
is sponsored by several denomina

Williamson. is the vow! Organ Recital bid

| president of the Pi Kapps. — Bill}
Duke holds the position of secre-|

| Jaek One

anist, will give
evening, Jan

Frank Sherrill, or;
a recital on Friday

| tary, David McFadyen is the new | ary oF eS P . in thie Bevia.| tio" nd is designed to fulfill
treasurer, Al Moreau the boarding | “@'Y <f 4 & ts ’ three: functions: 6 ediieate people
'son College Presbyterian Church in. °” UREHOte. We Cuneaty Peo
}house manager, and Joe Huskins pit ‘ , in child eare. home economies. hy
will serve IFC representatiy Davidson. This the seeond pro ' { ;
ae oP se PSS SER atts io be ¢ yoice «fer Chri
iii ame headed by Dee | 2ta@m™ in the current Organ Recital ee Ais rags
| The SAEs are now headed by Dee Series spotisored. by ‘the Depart: |' in t vis area; fo ware _of
Helm who erving as president : the. threat of Communism. The
= lige ‘ lg ‘hina? ment of Music at Davidson College, | “"" re ih ges ' ‘.
F ce reside Charles T : «| Stat cade ry t enry
rhe te =i vaseg i : : . The program for Mr, Sherrill's _— “ Nd
arr » seeretar alph Brig i lack. father of a Davidson stu
> oe oanane E ‘ Y IBM. Davidson recital will include the : | a k 1} ff !
‘ > tres rer y uns : F . fer ) ack : is ste pe
and age ee eee ' i Chaconne in E Minor by Buxtehude; ' a t} t “ <a i
v4 ar s j your & . ‘ exten * Te te < | statior
Boyce Martin y now oarding | gier of the Gentiles, Come, and : ’ = sit ) . i se
J é ager, . * 5 Jor 7" . f i Sot Be Sie resen
house manager, Jimmy cong Pit the Toceata, Adagio and Fugue in aciss wey - 5 pp :
responding secretary, anc ROSS | he Bach: Setanmmainn’s | th — ast in “9h : ippine |
smy » ras rT s y * ! "Sse i
Smyth is serving as rush chairman Geto in Doelat: the Cosa Branet d Chinese and Enulish |
As president of Sigma Chi, Char. “Chorale No. 2°; two movements he local project for this year is

lie Robinson heads the list of new from Messiaen’s “La Nativite.” and | ©°! ned with Mental Health, Our

officers for the coming semester. the “Grand Choeur Dialogue” by Men will be used by the \lexan- |}
John Trotti has been elected vice Gigout, Continued On Page Six)
president and Jim Kuist is now

serving as secretary. The treasurer e

for the coming semester is Jim Student Council Debates
Kiser, the boarding house manager, a

France Jordan, corresponding sec Curriculum: Gets Ke orts
retary, Willie Thompson, and edi-| 9 p

tor, Rogers Bates

BY JOHN TRASK, JR.

| At its first- meeting of the new year,

There will be a voluntary

the Student Council
| last Monday night heard and acted on the report given by|
the ‘curriculum committee.” The committee, with Dan LaFar
las chairman and Bill Bondurant and Pat Woodward as mem-|

dance to be held on Friday, Feb-|
ruary 17, (2) The concert to be
held on the afternoon of the
| eighteenth, and (3) The informal

STATE OF THE
COLLEGE
(Page 2)

NO. 12

to Play for

Third Herd Features
Top Musical Artists

BY BOBBY AUSTIN

Woody Herman and His Third Herd will play at David-
son's Annual Midwinters Function to be held on the weekend
of February seventeenth and eighteenth.

Herman has just returned from
1 tour on the Pacifie
he

Coast where
was acclaimed to be a

1eCess
rhe Third Herd features some of
America’s top musical artists sueh

as Dick Collins, Bill Castigino, and
Al Porcino }

The Students and their “South-!
ern Belles” will ‘be able to hear
musical presentations by the “Ole |
Woodehopper” three times during}
the dance weekend: (1) The formal |

dance to be held
Herman's pop

it 8:00 that night.
ilarity began al-
most immediately after he recorded |
his first musical arrangement. His
| latest Capitol releases are “Muskrat |

WOODY HERMAN

Ramble,” “Woodehopper’s Mambo,” Hollywood, and the Basin Street
and the “Mexican Hat Triek.” He in New York to play at Davidson's
has proved himself to be a very Midwinters Funetion weekend.
capable musician by doubling - on In. previous years, Herman has
the clarinet ind the alto saxaphone played the blues but now he has
and singing novelty and ballad. turned more toward novelty and
numbers jazz numbers. During his tour in
The Third Herd has been chosen Europe in 1954, he proved. himself
by the Metronome Poll, Parade, and) popular with Europeans who said
Time as the band which has done that this was the first time that
more for bringing baek daneing | they had heard a truly great Ameri
tharl any other band. He will be, can band. His tour ranged in an
coming directly from  suecessful! area from Oslo to Munich. As a re-
engagements at the Blue Note in/sult of his tours and appearances,

Chicago, the Paladium Ballroom in!

GETS $411,400 GIFT

(Continued on Page Six)

Chapel service in Lingle | hers, has recently been working on suggested eases
Chapel of the Davidson College | iy, the college curriculum.
pe gg nag go Probably the most dramatic pro-| by a unanimous vote “to iii nai ysis "s
| siovied: Tin euirelene: wit Semis posal to come from the committee that the Faculty Curriculum Com- |
prompity oF: GSU am, end wilt was a recommendation that a-stu-, mittee to present the reasons for
| a sabe dent be placed on the faculty cur- the. inelusion of each of the. sub-|
bodied teneninute: deretion,, Whe riculum committee. A motion to jects. required for graduation.” Tor ek ant
services are to Ee led by: stu- this effect delayed until the Councilman Jason MeManus waa
dents and faculty members. All next scheduled meeting which will gested that, perhaps the ‘Council | On December 12 Davids College was ng
members of the student body, | "x! *cheduled meeting which > — soll 98 pool a | | December 2 Davidson ollege W as named one of the
faculty and administration are se ra 7 co aigtate prod. aoe | beneficiaries in the Ford Foundation’s $260 million grant to
invited to attend. : agg conse eueriew'wm.| privately supported colleges.
} The Couneil did, however, pass! This suggestion received favorable |! ? ,
ere et ay Pee) . | consent from ether Couneil mem: | 718 the largest single gift| For example, Davidson Col-
bers: however, no in was taken |i) Philanthropie history, and Da- lege’s handsome sum of $411,-
Bar- lan Ope on eat: aie wait | vidson’s | mn of $411,400 was 400 will produce only about
| ns p anaes , _j third lar n the state of North $17,000 annually for the 10
The report by Chairman LaFar}| : : .
| issih: saaaiainiiiaieichinds eliaainien in | arolina |. years it must be invested in
EF certain vequited courses ani the | The Foundation gave to each pri-} endowment. This income will
t sihittinn. ak eutnls a cee | ve ate colles oughly a. sum equal increase salaries of the 63
is to the 1954-55 payroll for instrue- faculty members only about
rhe details of the report have not | tion in the - liberal carts. and}. §% : wilteh \
been worked out. Both Chairman} P ee i . wer - hess aati
| By CHUCK WRIGHT - Lakar and Student Council Press| = ‘ = one o> es Wi ar: rate vp Fr
“... a remarkable and fluent technique and the soul of dent Perrin Ander urged the ie ae ca _ oT eer 1 ee ee
a-true poet.” Thus one writer has characterized the brilliant) members of the student body to salutes he tie : ‘ aan oe a a — us
pianist David Bar-Ilan. Mr. Bar-Ilan appears tonight on the ‘!k te the members of the Council’ cign. Re a
Chambers Auditorium stage at 8:15 as the new year’s first oS : ae ae Davidson is one of the re- “me a oo co
| Artist Series performance. curriculum If any stud nt tin ee wermee inetitutions, ond: (We ir, sive them: a 5’ per cent
| Born in Haifa, Israel, Bar-TMan Major cil throughout the United) i... ihat he would like ineor., ‘ee2wms for the comparatively | oroise would require an additional
|commenced the study of piano, State Europe. He gave the Sorated: he seul’: contact: a mein large grant received. The addi- endowment: of $470,000. Also. the
| when he was five years old, and first concert ever presented in the jp. or ihe Student: Council tional sum is equal to approxi- grant will build no buildings, buy
gave his first public recital at the ancien! city of Nazareth Crities A letter from: Dean ‘Spencer: matey 39 ~“ — & no laboratory equipment or books
age of ten. have acclaimed his “whirlwind Pre ‘iin initareon cea me the ienesolinocsuene | While it is in endowment for the
As a child he was also a bril- teehniqu tremendous SORE  ncil’ recent yetitior Pag un No: | institution | received more) required 10. years it will provide
lant mathematician, which prodigi- and ene and * undoubted | limited off-es pa tie than two per cent of the total ap-| only an insufficient increase in
ous talent led him to a degree, by Musician-hip and brillianee,” bow Yiu as ng ge ag — propriation, and mammoth New teacher. salaries
correspondence, from the Univer- For hi neert here at Davidson | e “a " aps re oe phe Saves York University was the only insti A decade from now the princi
sity of London when he was 17.) he has chosen the following: Bach's | cough i = = ayant tesa ped tution to obtain this much. Others | pal can do a great many wonderful
However, his mathematics teacher Toccata and Fugue in E Minor; wid ee 7 faggot receiving near the maximum were things for Davidson when. the co!
heard him play the piano and Beethoven Sonata in ©, Opus sad pa payer - sg ite sock" Harvard. with $4,510,000, the Uni- jeve can use the $411 a0 thr cw
urged him to study for the concert also Chepin Sullade in F Minor, | - tthe pe ag ; vie pip versity of Chicago $4,324,200, and purpose it wishes
am. ck a , : snite | Judgment of this committes special ie a ene In the interim Davidson has to
At fourteen he had joined the) ! m he will play, Suite)?" 3 : was granted $2,380,300, highest in
Hagana, the Israeli underground,| “My Netive Land,” Opus 34, pete os a ne this the South ee —
and three years later was fighting) Ben-Hayim: Intermezzo, Opus 187, | ecial nancies Keeping in mind the size of the | C°"™P°Tate friends to enlarge its li
in the Israeli War for Israel's inde-| No. 2 and Ballade, Opus 118, No. 4} The Couns also diseu ed # Fe- student body as well as the faculty brary building and its.. volume of
pendence. He took part in the by Brahms: and Hungarian Rhap-| dues! spies hea Freshman Council payroll, Davidson fared fairly well books, and to build a new dormi
fighting to clear Galilee and in the sody No. 15 by Lisat. ed gd pag se " et a on a national seale as a_ partial tory ; ? :
Mattie of Nesareth. , eg “ mca _— . comparison shows: What is true of Davidson is
Following the war Bar-Ilan be- leided: that P sic ge ly oe Davidson $411,400 Wee Se. ey Seer:
or ueeeene OF INC. Open Duke University 2.380.300 most of the other privately sup-
, | meeting policy of the Council, the Queens : 124,200 ported colleges. The Ford °
Jeliiiend Gilieel ani. the ‘ecg Pree gs Beg ae privil- Wake Forest 515.300 grants have eased but by no
Mannes College of Music in New glover | Pune 428,800 means lifted their financial
York. There he studied under the pe ge i bigs —_ tudent: tO) Presbyterian 76,500 burdens. The real responsi-
eminent pianist Hans Neumann. i Sonmndge La eat and make) — gewanes 287,500 bility for furthering the in-
Since his formal training he has | x eee Vanderbilt 1,249,600 fluence and effectiveness of
become one of the most successful » : Reports were heard from Ver Washington & Lee 516.00 these institutions rests just
concert artists in the world. Dur- non Hunter’s committee on the; ‘The grant is looked upon by the Where it always has—on their
ing the coronation of Elizabeth I, Court of Control, from Stuart Ford Foundation as a massive stim- | individual and corporate
he became the first non-Common- Vaughan's committee on elections, ulant to educational philanthropy.| — friends.

and from Anderson's review of the
| Fecent NSA convention
In connection with the NSA re-

wealth citizen to win the medal
given annually by Dame Harriet
Cohen, pianist to the Queen of Eng-

land. This medal is awarded by |port, any student interested in
the British Music League to the |European travel should see John
year’s outstanding young pianist. DAVID BAR-ILLAN | Child who is head of the NSA

{Continued On Page Six)

Bar-Ilan has sinee been heard in | travel bureau on the campus.

It gives worry along with its hope, |
however,
Charlotte

It ought to be realized that the
as this editorial in the| Ford Foundation hoped to. stimu-
News of December 21 late, rather than to depress, giving

pointed out: from other sources. If it is not,
Analysis of conditions of the the next 10 years are going to be
grants, however, presents a even leaner than usual for the

much less optimistic picture. privately supported colleges
