PAGE SIX

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1956

hidden negative.

By JEFF SMITH

Austin Blake’ Brinkerhoff a
native of Montreat, N. C. Born
in 1983 in a depression he soon
came out of it when his kinder
garten class elected him chap-
lain. The story of that campaign
reveals the hard fibre and win
ning endurance of the mind of
the rising statesman. Youthful en
thusiasm was translated into ath
letie determination and success
once again crowned the new hero
with the title “Ping-pong cham
pion of Montreat.” But the best
was yet to be. Hard years ot
study and taking public speak-
ing honors at Wootlberry Forest
were preparation for a career in
the cold world of Davidson. By
1952 the character of ABB had
been built: religious leader, ath-
lete, orator. As such will the class
of ‘56 remember him.

Arriving at Davidson the quick-
minded worker took an influential
position on the Davidsonian. As pa-
per boy he soon established many
important local contacts — these
proved beneficial. An avid reader,
he had mastered the Wildcat Hand-
book, Presbyterian Outlook, Rob-

Is

Dangling weed, warm Schlitz, four aces, dark room—characterize
the nocturnal activities of Blake Brinkerhoff, former “Y” Presi-
dent and Cub Scout, as portrayed by this picture printed from a

ert’s Rules of Order, and the Quips

and Cranks far ahead of his slower| chief now makes it a

classmates, and was promptly}
awarded the vice-presidency of the |
YMCA. Independent means were

.. No. 6/IRC Presents Film

|China and its relationship with
the United States and the United
Nations will be presented next
Wednesday evening, April 18, by
the International Relations Club

Union. The program will be held
in the Union ballroom at 7:30
P.M.

A film entitled “Red China and

able Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., the
United States representative to
‘}the U. N. will be shown. Fol-

Ford, of the Department of Poli-
tical Science, will critique Mr.
Lodge’s presentation.

Open discussion and question-
ing will conclude the program.

The Club considers this topic
particularly timely at this time
as the United States is being
urged by most of the nations of
the world to reevaluate its policy
toward Communist China. Among
pertinent questions are: Will the
U. S. inevitably be forced to rec-

gelist, who affectionately calls him
*Bill,” the chief modestly denies
that he “let Bill win.”

The chief's real athletic joy,
however, is as a fan, basketball,| 08nize Red China soon regard-
particularly. Most of the present|léss. of our ¢élection outcome?
senior class suffered for three} Why do we take our present
years through the repeated ac-}Stand-in regard to Red China?

The public is cordially invited
to attend this meeting. The Win-

counts of the miracles of the shot
artist, Frank Selvy. The chief's
Selvy craze went through, three
main states: '52—half crazy, '53—
crazy, ‘54—magnificent obsession.
Perhaps one of the leading living
authorities on Selvy's record, the
chief has absorbed enough statis-
ical data to be a research source
r some years to come.

lege IRC’s will be special guests
of the local club at that time. Re-
freshments will be served.

did not spend last summer work-
ing for the Montreat Post Office,
it was impossible to get a postal

The chief's personal habits are discount.
simple, clean cut and admirable.| 4§ t© the future, some plans
naffected, friendly, and agree-|"@vé been made. In his re-
able, the chief ‘can be found re-| et visit to his alma mater-to-be,
creating amidst the Union game| U®ion Theological Seminary, in
rooms on a given Saturday night.| Richmond, the chief introduced
Quite moderate in his pleasure | ™° to thirteen ad acquaintances
seeking the chief counts Saturday | ive minutes after we hit campus.
supper at the College Restaurant| The entire week-end he missed
as the highlight of the week-end | 0"!Y one name end that was &
and occasional trips to the Oriental foreign student—just couldn't
for lobster are equated as down- pronounce it.

right orgies. Although not a real
‘party boy” at Woodberry, the
policy to
date every semester

The Chief's spontaneous shrieks

of ‘laughter have been described

established as an advisor to Dale/as a cross between the braying of
Carnegie. From there it was only'a donkey and the crowing of a

On Communist China

A program concerning Red|

in cooperation with the College)

the U. N.,” featuring the Honor-)

lowing this movie, Dr. Harold P.|

throp College and Queens Col-/

;

SGT. JERRY K. CRUMP

Medal of Honor
Winner Joins Siaff
Of ROTC Department

Sgt. Jerry K. Crump Congres-
sional Medal of Honor Winner,
has joined the Davidson College
ROTC Department, where he will
serve as small arms repairman
and rifle team coach. Sgt. Crump, |
whose home is in Lincolnton, N.}
C., was awarded the C.M.H. for}
action in Korea near Chorwon on}

But the chief's days are not over)
yet. They have just begun. We}Crump’s heroic action also earned
prophesy an abundant career for|a Purple Heart with Cluster, the

6 arid 7 September, 1951 while
serving in the famed 7th Infantry
Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division.

The acts which earned the na-
jon’s highest award for Sgt.
Crump included exposing him-
self to deliver effective fire into
the ranks of the assailants, ob-
serving, charging and bayonetting
enemy soldiers attempting to
capture a friendly. machine gun
position, as well as absorbing the
blast of an enemy grenade by
throwing himself upon it to save
his four wounded comrades from

|

Federal Inspection Of
Corps April 16-17

The annual Federal inspection of Davidson's ROTC Cadet |
; Corps will be held on April 16 and 17, when an inspection |
team from the Third Army will visit the unit.

The two-day inspection will be

climaxed by a full-dress parade | eluding President John R. Cun-
on Tuesday afternoon at 3:20 p.m.| ningham, visits to normally con-!
The public is invited to attend | ducted classes, and a detailed in-!

this parade. spection of the Cadet Corps while|
The annual Federal inspection | |, cutie

highlights the year’s training of

delayed until the new Court is
appointed.
Continued From | The Council released the fol-
( o> Gre) |lowing statement concerning re-
would be the plactng of class of-| cent violations of the gambling
ficers on Student Council com-| rule: “The Student Council con-
mittees, the attending of Student | yvicted 20 students of violating
Council meetings by the officers, the Student Body Regulations on
and the participation of the class! gambling. Various penalties were
officers in plans for the Fresh-| given, penalties, varying in ac-
man-Gopluneve ren i 'eordance with the seriousness of
Plans were discussed for the} a snaltios
NSA meeting which will be hela|‘™® offense. These pens oe
this summer. The only other topic ranged from probation to soing
of business was a report on the;Put on campus for varying
Court of Control which will be | lengths of time.”

Inter-Semester . . .

the Cadet Corps. It includes an
introduction to the assigned mili-
tary personnel, a briefing by the
Cadet Regimental Staff, a tour of
the ROTC facilities, which are
among the best in the Southeast,

a call on officials of the college,

McManus. ..
(Continued From Page One)

given this year for the first time.

MeManus is a member of Phi
Beta Kappa and is president of
Omicron Delta Kappa and of
Sigma Upsilon. He is also presi-
dent of Phi Delta Theta social
fraternity, a member of the stu-
dent council and is the recipient
of many other campus honors.

last year he won second prize
in the Willa Cather competi ion.
Prof. Kerr was a close personal
friend of Miss Cather, and this
year gave the Wilson award as
a special tribute during the 100th
anniversary year of the birth of
Wilson who attended Davidson as
a freshman.

John Harmon won first honor-
able mention in the Wilson com-
petition and Fred Myers received
second. First honorable mention
for the Willa Cather award went
to John C. Bernhardt and second
to James Kuist.

How can | make the most
money next year?

Is a business of own pos-
sible? ns ™

How will | be able to put
new life in my family’s busi-
ness?

Can | afford a new car next
year?

Shall | go to graduate school
now or service?

death or further serious injury.

His . aggressive action, devotion
to duty, indomitable fighting
spirit, and willingness to saeri-
fice himself, reflect the highest |
credit on himself, the Infantry, |

and the United States Army. Sgt. |

Korean Ser-

Is a big company or a small
one better for me?

STONESTREET'S
CAFE

Open Seven Days
a Week

... BUT IF YOU WILL BEA
Davidson College

Answer As Many As You Can...

YOU ARE A NOSTRADAMUS, SVENGALI, OR

\
What have other Davidson
graduates of recent years
done to become successful?

Can we make it on what I'll
earn next year?

How can a fellow put his ex-
tra money in a new business
that will grow?

What can a life insurance
contract do for me?

Should | sell or take the
other job?

A small town or a large one?
How can | save money?

Where will | get a practical
budgeting method?

PERHAPS YOU KNOW THE ANSWERS... IF NOT... AND YOU WOULD
LIKE TO FIND OUT... USE

THE O’HAIR AGENCY

one back-slapping spree to the/ Rhode Island red rooster, and if

presidency and the hierarchial | it is not true, as one observer puts
ladder was climbed. Ever since the | it, that “three cackles produce one
YMCA Pope has been familiarly | egg,” at least the chief is the on- |
known as “the chief.” student in Greek 22 who can |
The athletic record is equally] out seream Labban
impressive. The possessor of an A bit of apprehension was
excellent and well-known set shot,| aroused in the chief's mind when
the chief also stars in tennis and| Creighton suggested in his cam-
miniature golf, and just recently| paign speech that Will Terry did
became self-appointed checkers| 90 percent of the work in the Y
king of Belk dorm. The hallmark | this year. Creighton’s estimate was
of this multi-varied career came,| perhaps an exaggerated outburst
however, when the chief with his| of the feeling of several students
partner took one out of three sets) who this year for the first time |
in a doubles tennis match against did not receive Christmas cards
Billy Graham 0-6, 7-5, 06. One from the Chief. It must be made |

ly

of the few intimates of the evan- quite clear that since the chief |

one so truly interested in life.! United Nations and
Wherever there are people there} vice Ribbons. PHONE
will: be the chief in: their midit-—-| Sgt. Crump is now residing san 501 E. MOREHEAD ST. CHARLOTTE 3, N. C.
always willingly and cheerfully with his wife and two daughters | 450 S. Main Mooresville |
helping. in Cornelius, N. C
treat yourself to new leisure smartness with these comfortable team - mates

handsome shirt-’n-shorts ensembles

here are the smart go-togethers that always look immaculate, yet are so cool

and comfortable you'll feel completely at ease during your leisure-or-sports-hours.

a. Shirt of Galey & Lord combed

a
An
Tee
Net

i

cotton. Large checks in blue,
green or red with black and grey.
S-M-L-XL.

3.95

Jantzen walk shorts in_ black,
charcoal, olive green or tan
chino. Sizes 28 to 40.

5.95

b. Placket-front cotton knit ev-
erglaze shirt with alligator mo-
tif. White, light blue, dark blue,
yellow or light green. S-M-L-XL.

4.95

Ivy League Bermuda shorts, fine
cotton kayak, classic stripe. Sizes

28 to 38.
7.95

c. Capri-striped perma - pressed
cotton no-iron shirt. Stripes in
grey, red, blue or brown on
white. Sizes S-M-L-XL.

Crisp rayon linen walk shorts, in
charcoal, navy or beige. Sizes 28

to 42.
8.95

