PAGE SIX

TRIBUTE 10

BY 8OB MAJORS

“James, James” echoes. the rau-
cous voice of Dr. John Gallent
through the environs of Martin
Science Hall. To all those unfa-
miliar with the Davidson Chamber
of Science, these words probably
sound like the beginning of a repri-'
mand for a student who has erre

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SIXTY YEARS AGO YESTERDAY

A JANITOR

Use of X-Ray in America
‘Initiated by Davidson Men

On the night of January 12, sixty; science laboratory. They placed the) girl. She was ill with a throat ail-

years ago yesterday, three David-| severed digit on a Kodak plate. A
son College students made the first: ring was still on the finger, and
x-ray picture ever taken in Ameri-| they added several small objects on

ment, that had been identified as
either a disease or a tailor’s thim-
ble caught somewhere in the throat.

_ eel | a el |

“Wait ‘til you see this one!”

ca,

This was 11 days before the an-

nouncement by the German scien-
tist Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen that
he had discovered the x-ray through
experimenting with a device known
as a Crookes tube. Roentgen had
made his first picture on Novem-
, ber 8, 1895, but had not announced
| his findings.

Osmond L. Barringer of Char-
lotte is the only living member of
the trio. The others were the late
Eben Hardie of New Orleans and
Pender Porter, who became a
prominent New York physician.

They had heard of the x-ray ex-
periments and had slipped into
the science laboratory of Dr. Hen-
ry Louis Smith on a cold Sunday
the Davidson campus looking for. a night. One of the boys then slipped
janitor’s job. Finding Mr. Hobart ; into the “stiff” house, where bodies
on two-weeks vacation. he took On for dissecting in the medical labor-

~]
_—

~v

a job as a common laborer at the stories were kept in a pickling vat.

then-under- construction Johnston we reached into the vat and

Gymnasium. Upon the return of Mr.’ severed a finger from the hand of

Hobart and after a 1 hour. convet-. 4 corpse, and slipped back into the
sation with him, Jame finally:
landed a job here at Davidson. He's
been here ever since. His only com-

the plate for identification.

After keeping the current on for
three hours, they turned the plate
over to Barringer, an amateur pho-
tographer. He then developed the
first x-ray picture ever taken in
the United States.

Because they had broken into
laboratory and illegally used the
equipment. including the finger,
the boys kept quiet about their
feat. Dr. Smith was therefore
credited with the first x-ray pic-
ture in thi§ nation some six weeks
later when on February 27 cuts of
radiograms made by him were pub-
lished. in the Charlotte Observer.

When Dr. Smith, who later be-
came president of Davidson and
stilt later of WasHington & Lee,
achieved national fame for his
“first.” thé college learned of the
boys’ activities and released their
story to the press.

Dr. Smith continued with his ex-
periments and soon after was cred-
ited with saving the life of a young

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY ELECTS NEW

in his laboratory technique or who piaint about working here echoes
has committed some other lesser the sentiment of the whole jani-
sin, but to all those who chose to. torial service, “You've got to pay a
call themselves pre-medical stu- good man to keep him.”

dents it means that James William . ;
Howard, Professor of Chemistry: A pillar of his community. James
(without portfolio) will soon be|was married to Dovie Houston in
seen running to answer his boss’ | Febrvary of 1949. He has two

t

OFFICERS FOR SECOND SEMESTER

The final meeting of the Philan-} formal program of American Folk
thropie Literary Society for the| Music. Bernhardt'’s discussion in-
present semester was called to| cluded music from the past three
order by President Morehead at{ centuries of. American folk litera-
30 Monday night. ture, which he rendered’ with the
Due to its unusual nature, the} aid of his guitar in a manner not
program was presented first. Vice} unlike that of Burl Ives, One of the

call. During his 6 year tenure on! daughters—Brenda. 6 years old and 8:
the Davidson campus. James has; Cassandra Alise (named in part ‘by!
former ‘Davidson Professor Alex.

|
| it distinetly “for a fleeting z

performed assiduously his tasks of
caring for his building and its stu-
dents and in doing so he has en-
deared himself to many a Davidson
science student.

James was born January 19, 1929

in Charlotte. In the midst of the|,

Depression, his folks moved the
family out in the country near
Huntersville High School (now Tor-
rence Lytle High School) in June
of 1947, James started summer
school at North Carolina Agricul-
tural and Technical College in
Greensboro. As he puts it, “Finan-
cial problems soon forced a stra-_
tegic withdrawal.” Late in the fall

Vavoulis) who'll be 1 year old to-

President Antrim introduced John} more ponuiar selections was the
Bernhardt, who presented an in-| well-known railroad working song

Dr. Smith was transported by
wagon with his x-ray machine to
the girl's farm home in Cabarrus
county. Three of five doctors con-
sulted. had discredited the thimble
_ story, but Dr. Smith's x-ray showed

‘as he later recalled. -

+ She was operated on in a Char-
‘lotte hospital, but only after Dr.
| Smith had taken his equipment to
the hospital and let the doctors see
‘the thimble themselves.

| The story was widely published
and widely disbelieved, according
to Dr. Smith, but it- was the first
_medical use of x-rays, perhaps in
“the world.

It should be pointed out that in
1896 Davidson was also the site of
the North Carolina Medical Col-

lege, chartered in 1892. It was re-
‘moved to Charlotte in 1907, and

| later to Chapel Hill. This accounted
for the “pickled stiffs.”

College Laundry . . .

(Continued from Page One)
the entire South.

“We haven't lost over two laundry;
bundles in the past year. I am
heartily in favor of the type honor
system in use in the laundry. Its
only disadvantage is seen when a
student picks up a bundle by mis-
take and does not return these|

Cunningham Will
Address A. A. C.

St. Louis, Mo.—John R. Cunning-
ham, president of Davidson Col-
lege, will address a discussion
panel on “College Development
Programs” during the forty-second
annual meeting of the Association
of American Colleges which be-
gan Tuesday (January 10) at the
Jefferson Hotel, St. Louis, Mo.

President Cunningham is one of
more than 800 representatives of
state and privately endowed col-
leges and universities who will be
present at the three-day meeting
on “Liberal Education: Scholarship
and Teaching.” Principle speakers
on the program include: His Ex-
cellency Arnold D. P. Henry, Am-
bassador of Canada; The Honorable
Herold C. Hunt, Under-secretary of
Health, Education and Welfare;
and William MePeak, Vice Presi-
dent of the Ford Foundation.

Davidson Fund...

(Continued From Page One)

der Home of Chartotte. This is a
therapy. home. for mentally dis-
turbed children. These children
come from environments which
often cause these disturhances, or
cannot afford to pay for the ther-
apy which they need. This home
is the only one of its kind in the
Carolinas.

The Gift Fund Committee has
arranged four chapel programs

FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1956
! The Inter-fraternity Council has
ege
D. Club Initiates
Dance Weekend for 1956. Each so-
The D Club of Davidson College| girl for the honor.

announced the procedure for choos-
ing a Queen of the Mid-Winter’s
Thirty New Members cial fraternity in addition to the
Campus Club will nominate one
initiated thirty now members in-
to its fellowship on Tuesday night,| Members of the IFC and the IFC

January 3. The Club’s purpose is} Faculty Committee will observe
to promote Davidson's athletic in-| and converse with the twelve can-
terests, especially when they con-| didates during the first half of the
cern cordial relations with other | forma! dance. They will announce
schools, and to encourage student | their decision as to the winner and
Participation in athletic activities,|two runner-ups just before inter-
Pete Ashcraft, Max Bryan. Bill| mission. Decisions are to be based
Carrell, Curtis Cates, Phit Diuguid,|0n beauty, personality, and over-
Al Elder, Dave Fagg, Jim Foil, Hen-| all social poise.
ry Griffin, Bill Jackson, Charley

James, Dick Makepeace, Roswell In addition, the Council has an-

: nounced plans for a new policy
Mallory, Dick Morehead, Oyvind! concerning the housing of dates on

Norstrom are new members. a
. , the campus during the dance week-
Dave Page, Murray Page. Rhett | ends, Mrs. Little, Supervisor of
Dormitories, has had great prob-

lems in the past in finding rooms

, Sanders, George Scott, Basil Sharp,

jAlex Shepard, Ralph Setzler, Reitzel
Snider, Don Stewart, Craig Wall

vy: .,'| for students’ dates due largely to

Soo TNO oka: Wontren nant! last minute cancellations. She and

Wright , ¥ Yi the IFC are attempting to find a

. solution. The present plan is to

| Officers for this year are: have no one sign up for a room
: Ed Speir, president; Bo Aber- until after exams.

nathy, vice-president; and Dave
Regen, secretary.
STONESTREET'S

Davidson Student. . .

(Continued From Page One)
scholarships bring students to Ox-
ford from the United States and
the British Commonwealth na-

Open Seven Days
a Week
PHONE 3.6241
450 S. Main

dealing with mental health and
International Affairs in connection
with these two chosen projects.
There is to be a concerted effort
on the part. of the Committee to
use every available method to edu-
cate the Student Body in the areas
of mental health and the Southeast
Asia Affairs.

It will be possible for the con-
tributor to designate to which

tions.

In accordance with Mr. Rhodes’
own wishes, selection is based on
a four-point qualification of intel-
Ject, character, leadership, and _in-
terest in sports.

Mooresville

t
,

{Using some of the wallet-feeling '
‘methods of Johan Slickensis. he Was held Wednesday evening at| accept the challenge for a literary.

day. A member of Davidson Lodge | ©

No. 511. Prince Hall Free & Ac-
cepted Masons. James is a Master Interna’ Relations
a
Club Holds Meeting

Mason ia that group. As a Trus-
tee and Acting Deacon of the Da-

The regular January meeting of
the International Relations Club

vidson Presbyterian Church (U. S.
A.), his dreams at present center:
around the building of an educa-,
tional building for his church.:

P. M. During the business ses-,

hopes to raise money and pledges 9:15 |
plans were outlined for the

enough among his own community 5!0N,

entitled “John Henry.”

Not only was his warm informal
manner received with enthusiasm,
but Bernhardt’s tremendous knowl-
edge and experience in his subject
added greatly to the quality of the
program.

It was then announced -that the
rival society had not seen fit to

meet.
The floor was opened for nomi-

to begin such a project.

. ‘
second semester program to in- nations of officers for the second

; . cludé-joint meetings with the Win- semester. The new officers are
In his leisure time, James is an throp and Queens College IRCs. Kerry Spiers, president: Jim’ Brice,

of 1947. he joined the Air Force,jardent TV fan. Another of- his Plans for holding a public meeting! vice president: Harry Paschall, sec-
completed basic training there. and| manias is the weekly puzzle,in the in the spring to feature a well retary; Roswell Mallory, treasurer;
then applied for Officer Candidate | Charlotte Observer. He sends one. known retired diplomat were also! Mack Calcote. first supervisor;

L

School. He passed the mental tests,!of these puzzles in faithfully al- discussed.

only to be stymied on the physical
by a chronic ear disease. After 9
more months in the Air Force Med-
ical Department. he was medically
discharged.

Trying again for higher educa-
tion, he found the G. I. Bill closed
when he, applied to Johnson C.
Smith University in Charlotte for
admission. After a brief stint at

most every week and encourages
the Faculty members under his-
control to do likewise.

' David Holloman, second supervisor;
- Dick Morehead, first critic, and

The program topic for the eve- Joe Garrison, second critic.

ning was the recent French elec-

: , tions. Jacques Delpech. Di.vidson’s |

Commenting on the general Da-, special student from southern
vidson scene. James says, “Boys France, outlined the results and
are goin’ to be boys a8 long aS. significance of the elections from’
there are boys. Now ya got three the standpoint of the Frenchman. |
classes of boys—the do. the, won't This was followed by a very lively:
do, and the. will do~I think that question and discussion period. The ,
we've got more of the ‘will do's’, conotusions drawn were that |

Drink
‘M
O

clothes for some time. in this way
the owner of the misplaced clothes

is caused a great deal ot trouble in
search for the missing bundle.” It
seems that, despite the possible dis-
advantages of this honor type sys-
tem, it is this particular system
which places the Davidson College
Laundry, as well as the school in
general, at the top among such
institutions in the South. |

ALS)

project he would like his money to
go, or to contribute to both. Solici-
tation will begin the last week in
February.

Woody Herman. . .

(Continued Frum Page One)
Woody and His Third Herd have
arisen to among the tops in Ameri-
can Music.

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C,

118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

the S & W Cafeteria in Charlotte, | now than we've had in a long time.
James worked as office boy for, Students today want to be prepared

Americans,’ who would wish to im-

4

Cannon Mills in Kannapolis. Laid
off during 1949. he wandered onto |

REV. MURRAY

Rev. Murray Speaks
At Vespers Sunday

The Reverend Jerry Murray,
pastor of the Davidson Methodist
Church, will deliver the Vespers
message on Sunday, January 15.
This will be the last Vesper ser-
vice of the first semester and the
first service of the second semester
will be held on January 29.

The Reverend Murray was born
in western North Carolina and at-
tended Brevard College. He has
received an A.B. degree from Duke
University and a B.D. degree from
the Duke Divinity Schoo).

Before assuming his duties as
pastor of the charge at Davidson,
he was pastor of Ebenezer Church
in Belmont, North Carolina.

He is married to the former Miss
Mary Alexander and they have two
children.

O
R’
QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery, [nc.

for anything that’s comin’ as com- Pose an idealistic government on
pared with those several years ago. France. have no idea of the in-,
who frittered away Uncle Sam's ; tricacies of the French political sit: |
money under the G. I. Bill.” This- uation, that the French people in

guardian of Davidson's Ivory Tower
foresees a need in the future for general are not nearly so fearful of
two secretaries and another jani- Communism as Americans are, and

tor to staff his building (and more that there is no hope in the near
pay for the present inhabitants—. future for a significant change in|
including the professors). James ihe French electoral system,
and his cohort in the Martin
Science Hall, Alonzo Jackson, are
the originators of the janitorial
“staff meeting.” Held very fre-'
quently, these meetings seldom.
solye many problems relating to;
the building but they're good as
far as campus bull sessions go.

Our hats are off to James How-
ard, Janitor of the Week. who.
wouldn’t be at home. without hear. ,
ing the cry of “James! James!” |
from Dr. Gallent at least. twenty ;
times a day.

EUMANEAN ELECTS
NEW OFFICERS |

Eumanean Literary Society held
its final meeting of this semester
Monday night, January 9. i

Nelson Grice read a: psychological |
treatise and Richard Cumming read |
several of his poems.

Mr. Jim Marshall presided over |
the election of officers for the sec-
ond semester. Responsibility for
Eumanean superiority was dele-
gated to Mr. Harry Brownlee, treas-
urer, Mr. Bill Daniel, vice-president,
and Mr. Nelson Grice, president. A
runoff for secretary was postponed
until the next meeting.

Before adjoining, the Society
took due notice of the ethics of
the Davidsonian staff in permitting
the deletion of the last paragraph
of the Eumanean article of Decem-
ber 9 and the substitution of a
literary attempt by a member of
the group across the way.

RUSSIA and the IRON CURTAIN Countries can be in
YOUR summer travel plans ror 1956

SCANDINAVIA: RUSSIA (4 weeks) : BUCHAREST
BUDAPEST : VIENNA : MUNICH : PARIS
LONDON

ALL INCLUSIVE: $1930.00

For detailed information write:
KEN STEINBECK
Georgetown University
Washington, D. C.

— ee
<r

THE CONNOISSEUR

A PLACE OF FINE FOODS FOR ANY
TASTE IN EATING

Pit Barbecue

(Cooked Daily)

Broiled Steaks
Fried Chicken
Sandwiches

PHONE 3-286] MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Sa

eae

Satisfy Yourself with a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke=
packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray

The more perfectly packed your
cigarette, the more pleasure it
gives... and Accu-Ray packs
Chesterfield far more perfectly.

CHESTERFIELD

MILD, YET THEY Satisfy /

$

»
/ _ aR

To the touch...to the taste, Firm and
«+. mild yet deeply satisfying to
the taste — Chesterfield alone is
pleasure-packed by Accu-Ray.

an Accu-Ray Chesterfield satis-
fies the most... burns more
evenly, smokes much smoother.

. a Fe

a

A,

pleasing to the fips

@Lecrrt & Myris Tosco Co.
