COACH DOLE
HONORED
(Page 3).

Che Bautdsonian

THE IMPENDING
CRISIS
(Page 2)

VOL. XLIV

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,

FRIDAY, FEBRU ARY 3, 1956

Shown above is the 1956 pre-medical graduating class which is composed of: first row— Bo Abernathy,
Dickie Adams, Jim Armistead, Linny Saker, Thomas Breeden, Jim Grice, Harry Brownlee, Royster
Chamblee, Stuart Collins; Second row—George Cousar, Sellars Crisp, Gregory Dimijian, John Dykers,
Spencer Eaves, Joe Gaskin, Charlie Harris, Bill Keiter, Bob Mack; third row—John Malone, Bubba
Martin, Stan Miller, Mallory Miree, Watt McCain, W. H. Morris, Larry Parrott, Jim Patterson,
Everett Price; and fourth row—Dick Pyle, Dave Regen, Pete Robertson, Charles Robinson, Allen Smith,
Harley Smith, Don Stewart, and John Young.

For Medical School Study

(This week the Davidsonian
pays tribute to the pre-med de-
partment—its faculty and its
students. As one of our most
outstanding departments, it has
been held in high national
esteem, annually graduating
nearly 100% of its students
into graduate schools of the
highest calibre. This week we
present only one class of the
many who have distinguished
themselves and their alma
mater by outstanding achieve-
ments in service through
medicine.—Ed.)

By BOB LATHAN

Justifying their position as the
largest vocational group on the
Davidson campus, a total of 35
students will graduate from the

re-med department this spring
and leave for graduate medical
schools around the country.

The University of North Caro-
lina Medical School will claim the
most Davidson graduates next fall
as nine seniors plan to matriculate
there. Eight Davidson seniors chose
to spend their next four years at

the Duke medical schéol. As can
be seen from these figures, almost |
half of the premedical students will |
remain in a North Carolina school |
next year.

The complete list of students and |
the medical schools to which they |
have been accepted follows:|
COLUMBIA—H arr y
CORNELL—Gregory Dimijian;
DUKE—-Linny Baker, Royster |
Chamblee, Stuart Collins, George
Cousar, Hugh Malone, Bubba Mar-
tin, Larry Parrott, Pete Robertson;
EMORY—Jim Armistead, Jim
Brice, Mallory Miree, Allen Smith,
Harley Smith; U. N. C.—Bo Aber-
nathy, Sellars Crisp, John Dykers,
Spencer Eaves, Charlie Harris, Bill
Keiter, Billy Morris, Charlie Robin-
son, John Young; OHIA STATE—
Dickie Adams; PENNSYLVANIA—
Joe Gaskin, Bob Mack, Dick Pyle;
MEDICAL COLLEGE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA—Tom Breeden, Everett
Price, Watt McCain; VANDERBILT
—Stan Miller, Dave Regan; MEDI-
CAL COLLEGE OF VIRGINIA-——Jim
Patterson; WASHINGTON U. (St.
Louis)—Don. Stewart.

Harley Smith is the only pre-

KNOW YOUR COLLEGE:

Davidson’s Alumni Fund '

Tops Million

By JOCK
Since 1941, John L. Payne,

Mark in "55
REEDER

former Charlotte businessman,

Brownlee; |

has served as public relations director and fund director at
Davidson. With the aid of several staff members he keeps
track of the 8,500 living alumni, alumni officers, public rela-
tions, and the alumni fund. This January Robert Sailstad
joined the staff taking charge of the alumni fund.

is page eh rs = = — Davidson fund as well as to the en-
South, began in 1939. In spite of a —" — ) oe

major capital gifts program and
Most colleges believe their alum-

two wars, the fund in 1955 totaled
ni want to contribute, but a method

over $1,000,000 which was con-
tributed by about 21 per cent of|of properly reaching them must
be attained.

the alumni. For the past three
years the fund has increased $20.) ‘Thirty.two of the thirty-six alum-
000 per year at an expenditure of) nj areas had meetings ph year at
6 percent. In time and with the) which two representatives from
continuing cooperation of the! navidson were speakers, Dr. Cun-
ningham, Coach Bill Dole, Dr.
Beaty, Dr. Johnston, Dr. Spencer
and Dr. MeGavock are favorite
speakers for these meetings.

Most of the success in the past,
however, has been due to direct
mail contact with the alumni, tell-
ing them of the needs of the col-
lege and providing easy ways for
them to join in the annual giving.
‘&Publications bulletins, as well as
the entire publie relations pro-
gram, are aimed toward the needs
and plans of the college. An ex-
panded program of personal con-
tact is expected to increase the
percentage of giving to an even
greater extent.

The alumni fund is part of a
plan to make Davidson the equal
of any college of its size and type
in the country. Almost one hun-

alumni, a goal of $200,000 annually
is hoped to be achieved.

Last year many businesses and
foundations

contributed to the

dred thousand is given each year
in scholarships and as alumni Sec-
retary Payne says, “If would

get back what we give,

— student in the group. Most)
of the boys are undecided as to)
| whether or not they will specialize. |
| However, Joe Gaskin inclinde
ltoward surgery and
toward pediatrics, while Jim Pat-
terson says he'll be a pediatrician
if he specializes. Of the 35 future
doctors, Jim Brice and Everett
| Price completed their B.S. 1 pro-
gram in three years instead of the
normal four.

There have always been and still
are a large number of premedical
students on the Davidson campus,
as shown by the fact that over one
fifth of the student body is in-
clined toward medicine and over
one fifth of the alumni is composed
of doctors. All of last year’s and the
year before last’s senior premed
students were accepted to med
school. Indications are such that
this year’s seniors will follow in
the tradition, although at the pre-
sent a few have not as yet been
accepted because of late applica-

tions.

The Pre-Med department at Da-
vidson College is believed to be
the oldest of its kind in the U. S
It was founded in 1886 by Dr. Paul
P. Barringer. At that time it was
considered a separate unit from

the college. The students were per-
mitted to use the gymnasium and

Is

Separate
College

In 1920 the Pre-Med department

pearance. It was suggested that
students take the complete college
course, but where this was un-
desirable or impossible, a course
much like the one today was of-
fered.

This liberal education is  pre-
ferred by many medical colleges
today. Davidson’s Pre-Med grad-
uates have had little trouble gain-
ing entrance to medical colleges in
the past years.

Of these graduates, Emory has
claimed the highest number (10.2

Student Withdrawals
At End of 1st Semester

Dean Spencer released this week |
a list of the pumber of students,
in their particular
withdrew from school
of the first
twenty-seven, is

classes,
at the end
emester. The total,
quite an improve-
ment oyer last year's first semester
total of thirty-eight

Particularly encouraging is the

freshman situation. Only five fresh
men have left school, while at this
time last vear, fifteen freshmen
had withdrawn. Of the five who
left this past’ semester, all five
were voluntary withdrawals, Last
year only three — first semester
freshmen. withdrew — voluntarily,
leaving twelve involuntary with

drawals compared with none this
year

The reason for the decrease in
involuntary withdrawals is the new
liberal policy of the Executive
Committee. According to a rule re
cently passed by the Committee,
all students must pass three sub
jects to remain in school. In the
case of first semester freshmen,
however, the Committee has de
cided to consider individual. situa
tions and, although, first semester

Don Stewart!

dormitory facilities. but were not |)

considered students of thé college. |

(as it is known today) made its ap-}

percent) with the University of
North Carolina running a close!
second (10.0 per cent). The next}
school in line is Pennsylvania with |
6 per cent. As a rule these men)
stand high in their Med School |
classes.

Rifle Team to Shoot
In Triangle Meet

Davidson College varsity
a team will compete in a three-
way match with The Citadel and
V.P.1. on February 4. The match
will be fired on the ROTC rifle
range, located in the sub-basement
of W. H. Belk Hall.

Members of the rifle team are)
Captain George R. Cousar, Mercer
Blankenship, Mac Colcote, Royster
Chamblee, Harry Antrim, Bob
Alexander, Clifford Deal, Charles

ly, David Palmer, Charles Gribble, |

have few financial problems.

and Walter Scott.

freshmen still technically come un-
der the rule, certain
|may be made in their ease
Voluntary withdrawals:

exceptions

Jan 1956 Jan 1955)
Freshmen 5 3
Sophomores 8 5
Juniors 2 0
Seniors 1 0
Involuntary withdrawals. (ex
cluded for academic failure)
Jan 1956 Jan 1955!
Freshmen 0 12
Sophomores 6 15
Juniors 4 2
Seniors 1 I
Total withdrawals for all rea
sons:

Jan. 1956 Jan 1955
il 38

Activities Directory

Sat.—Basketball, Union movie.
Sun.—Vespers, Or Heltzel.

Mon.—Sigma Pi Sigma, Eu,
Phi.

Tues —YMCA Cabinet, Artist
Series.

Thurs. — Bridge Club Tourna-
ment.

Fri —Basketball, siesta

Chamber Music Guild.

DAVID BAR-ILLAN

Artist Series Scores
With Bar-Ilan Concert

By FRED MYERS

At last the Davidson College Artist Series has*again ful-

filled its nominal function,
an artist.

David Bar-IHan’s recital in Cham-
bers Auditorium on Friday eve-
ning, January 13, was an example
of that which is so foreign to us:
art, Not since early in 1954 had
Jocal music appreciators had such
eceasion to appreciate, for not
since that time, when Isaac Stern
appeared, had an authentic musi-
cal artist been presented them by
the artist series.

Both Stern and Bar-Illan brought
to their performances formidable

/technical mastery such as is sel-
dom seen, together with emotional ,

maturity and insight which proved
ence over the spiritual superiority
of their race. Their vigorous
strength of mind and sound re-
finement of feeling are all the
rarer because all the more diffi-

Stowe, G. C. Hemingway, Dan Kel- cult to appreciate.

As concerns Bach interpretation,

' Bar-Ilan is diametrically opposed |

|

Less Than Those of 55

who |

' gard were strictly limited to points

Council Names
Board, Endorses Pe

Effor's for Charlotte Telephone Service,

OVER 500 APPLICANTS
APPLY FOR ADMISSION

(D.C. News, Bureau)
Applications for admission to Davidson are running well
ahead of 1955 figures as scholarship selection time approaches.

Registrar | W  Hengeveld re :
5 5 freshmen. More than 200 are ex
ported this week that approximate
is ay rected to enter the competition
ly 500 applications had) been sub
Be : Entering freshmen are requested
mitted. ‘This is slightly more than ,. , .
o take the Seholastic Aptitude
had been received by March of ; . . :
. ‘ ot the College Entrance Ex
1955. ‘
mination Board, and most of the
‘ next. severi '
During the next. several weeks applications received thus far were
the college scholarship committee froin secondary  sehool students
will examine scores of applications jocged in December or the early

for Davidson's 18
scholarships offered

competitive);
to entering

this month
250 will be
on the basi

rt of
\bout elected for

imission, of the en

trance examinations, high school
Wm Merchant Fund acudemic. and Teadership records,
° ; und other accomplishments. ‘Phe
* mpetitive scholarships are offer
Adds Scholarship to the outstanding all-around
tudents, with the amount of the}
A new scholarship program in wlarship determined: by the in-}
memory of William Alfred Mer lual need of the nner
chant has been established at Da Most valuable are the George F
vidson College by his widow, Mr taker awards, worth up. to $5,000
Henrietta Cathcart Merchant, of the four years of college Oth: |
St. Petersburg, Florida include those made possible by |
The fund will provide a mini Union Carbide and Carbon!
mum of one scholarship each year (orporation, by the Procter and}
of up to $1250 mble Co. and. | rhomas . F.
William Alfred Merchant, for S!aley
whom the program is named, wa Dr SR Spencer, Jr, chairman
for many years President of the of the scholarship | committee,
National Bank of Cuba. A native Points out that competition is still
of ‘Alexandria, Virginia, he was Open for the scholarships
manager of the RG. Dun Co. in While the deadline has passed.”
| Charleston, South Carolina, before he said today, “late. applications

becoming West Indies manager for Will be considered. A student who
the company. He died in 1932 after has not applied for one of the Du
his retirement from the Cuban Vidson scholarships and now wishes

bank presidency to do so may still enter the compe

William Alfred Merchant, Hi, a Ution :
son. of Mr. and Mr Merchant “Tlowever, he should write im
graduated from Davidson in the mediately to the Secretary of the
Davidson

class of 1936 and is now living in Scholarship Committee,

Jacksonville, Florida, where he is College, Davidson, N.C. Selections
|

associated. with National Airlines. will be made in mid-February.” |

NEW POLICY SET:

To Be Claimed Feb. 3-16

By CHARLES REED

|
|
|
}
|
|
|

For the first time in several years, Mrs. Little is not in]
charge of assigning dormitory rooms to students for their
dates over the Mid-Winters weekend. Registration will be

handled this vear by the Freshinan Council with the assistance
of Inter-Fraternity Council members.

The registration desk will: be in + ielock. in the afternoon it will
the Jobby of the College Union * open from: 2 +t 4 olelock: ex
ptarti Friday Febroary > pt on Saturday ond Sunday
dents will be able to register for } Phe registration period is divided
rooms until Thursday, February 16 nto two period snchonka: welhi: Lon
at noon, lin Belk dormitory. have through |

The registration. desk will be} Saturday, February 11, to register}
open cach morning during the! (+ (heir own ro Alse, during |
chapel period and from 11 until | ¢))j period a student living in, an

register for a|
accompanied |
room. In short, |
registration |

ither dormitory m
room in Betk if hi
by the owner of that

during this part of the

period no room will be assigned
inless the Belk oecupant is pres
ent at its assignment

The second part of this registra

Monday, February }

ian period starts
rhursday, Feb-|
|

13, and. lasts until
and has brought to the campus | rary 16. In this period students
are assigned the remaining rooms |
. : ‘for their dates on first-come, |
, “ke ehe - ) ;
to the mock-heroies of Dr. Albert Secicervell Wasix. irrespective of

Schweitzer. His handling of the
Toccata and Fugue in E minor, the
l first number on his program, was
sure-fingered and intelligent, deep-
ly sensible of the profound “‘trans-
intelleetuality” of Bach's piety. In
it there was none of that all-too-
widespread and all-too-successful
frame of mind that would reduce
such mighty monuments as Bach or
ithe Matterhorn to chest-medal sta-

residence in Belk
To avoid the unni
of an assigned room,
will be required of
This dollar will be
mail after the dance
those whose dates occupy their as-
signed rooms, Students who, after
registering and paying the deposit,
find that their dates will not need
a room ean cancel the reservation

jeed vacancy
1 $1.00 deposit
il] registrants.
refunded by
weekend to

tus—an attitude which is, if overly 2
sincere . be: mistrusted “tand get their dollar refunded at
S re, y § § . :
: the registration desk before noon,

Tuesday, February 16 ;
| Anyone wishing further informa. |‘
‘tion about the assignment of Belk
cence of Bach. Bar-Ilan wonders | dormitory rooms for dates should |
whether the opposite is not true,/ consult the mimeographed sheet

and adds that Schweitzer’s profi-, explaining registration to be placed
ciency at the organ is by no means!in every student's room by the
| first-rate (his femarks’ in this re. IFC, or should visit the registration
desk in the lobby of the College |
| Union.

Dr, Schweitzer has been acered-
ited with bringing to light for our
generation the glory and magnifi-

(Continued On Page Four)

Rooms for Midwinters —

| Concerto in E flat for Violin and} chino,’

No. 13

Break Between Semesters Continue

By JOHN TRASK, JR.
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Council. at its January 30 meeting last Mon-
day night, elected fifteen members to the election board: ap-
proved two petitions to the faculty, one asking for the putting
of student representatives ‘on the Curriculum Committee, the

Calendar Committee, and the Religious Exercise Committee,
and the other requesting that the Faculty Curriculum Commit-
tee submit to the Council the reasons for the inclusion of each
of the courses of study required for graduation; and took
action on several other matters:

Acting ‘under Article

14 of the; were sho whe
Guetiken | Coblens howing an overwhelming ap-

: Student Body! proval. He urged that all fraternity
Constitution, the Student Council) house and boarding house phones
set up the 1956 election board with | be registered on the petitions.

Stuart Vaucha hi
chairman. ‘The| he Council also discussed the

nas

following fuce > wer

jwith one mer: ber aii Pag soawest for: sa intersemeston break.
ya ae - id four independents: ag Reiagereld = oa

Archie Joyner sets ” er
1(Pi Kap pa r Al Moreau general, the report said that the
Adams (KS): Jim Ensign (Phi Delt); carlene Was now operating on the
Pat Miller (Sigma Chi: Seek minimum number of contact class-
lCrymes (Pika); Buddy Lyles (Pni|700™ Hours which is forty-five
Gam); Bil Stewart (ATO); Charlie mere = order 'to allow: i066 &. va
eric (SAR). bi -epr. | Cation between semesters, said Mr
ad Jock: lier, ea gg Hengeveld, several possibilities
Mac Crouse. and Bob Baehanan for | Cd be considered: Among these
the Inde tent would be the taking off of days
‘ies ensdindii ee si from the Christmas and Spring va-
! nts of the two petitions cations, or beginning the year ear-
to the focuity are printed below. jier and ending later. The idea of
he purpose of the requests in| peginning earlier and ending later
these petitions is to give the stu- puns into several complications,
dent body a larger voice in affairs among them the. traditional poli-
concerning them, and to generate | cies of the school as well as some
a better relationship between the | other practical reasons. However,
students and the administration the administration is open to any
President Anderson announced | suggestions, and is willing to es-
that the Committee on Chapel| tablish an intersemester break if
| Speakers. Was interested in. getting | the complications can be overcome.
| some student body suggestions for! A Poll on student opinion will be
future speakers. Any student who| circulated this week concerning

would like to make a request or) the matter, and every student is

suguestion will please see Perrin | urged to give it his full considera-
Anderson or Vernon Hunter. ) tion.
The efforts to establish direct; For the benefit of those students

' who get locked out of their rooms
for one reason or, another, master
keys may be gotten from Perrin
Anderson on the first floor of Belk,
Cop Linker, any janitor in your

telephone service between. David-
on and Charlotte are progressing
fayorably, said Anderson In
to the Council, he told
petitions now being circu-

very
it report
{ the

laied among the owners of. tele-; dormitory, the Union, or some col-
phones in the Davidson-Cornelius | lege official

ares. He added that from the re- The council requested that the
sult ceived so. far, the people | (Continued On Page Four)

Shown above are Beatrice Griffin, Concert Master, and Benjamin
Swalin, Director of the North Carolina Little Symphony.

Artist Series Presents

Little Symphony Concert

The North Carolina Little Symphony will present a con-
cert February 7 in the Chambers Auditorium of Davidson
College

Viviane Bertolami, violinist, will} Orchestra by Mozart
be featured soloist. The concert is} The second half of the program
part of the Davidson Artists Series.: will include a group: of dances
The evening program, which be-| featuring the following composi-
gins at 8:15, will open with the} tions: “Gavotte,” by Bach, “Valse
‘Overture to the Merry Wives of | Triste,” by Sibelius, “In A Vienna
Windsor,” by Nicolai. | Park,” by Johann Strauss, and
The first portion of the program | “Roumanian Dances,’ by Bela Bar-
will also include an interpretation) tok.
by the orchestra of Haydn's Sym-| The final selections on the pro-
phony Number 92, the “Oxford”) gram will be Ballet Music from
Symphony. | William Tell, by Rossini and Over-
Miss Bertolami the ture to the Opera “If Signor Brus-
also by Rossini.

will play

x
