FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1956

DBautiasonian

SPSArS

lants

“On-

Sports

By JOHN JOHNSON

wi

CARROUSEL

On Monday, Dec. 17, the second annual Carrousel Bas-
ketball Classic will begin in Charlotte’s giant Coliseum. That
night at 7:30 the Wildcats will clash with highly regarded St.
Joseph’s College in the evening’s first game. What will be
the outcome? It could depend upon the spectator support the
Red and Black gets from the stands.

Davidson is the home team, the sponsoring school for
the recently established tournament and by all means
should have the support of the student body with their
presence and vocal backing.

Since the final night before a vacation is traditionally an,

“easy” evening it should not be difficult to accumulate a

crowd of several hundred to make the trip ‘to the Coliseum. :

TRAVELERS
Although located in far away Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania, St. Joseph’s has already had tournament season
ticket sales amounting to a whooping 200 books!

They are expected to send a large number of students
to be on hand for their opeming clash with the Cats. Any-

THE DAVIDSONIAN

East Carolina Invades
Wildcat Pool Tomorrow

By GEORGE RAMSEY

Coach John Thompson's swimming team, after breaking
even in their first two meets of the 1956-57 season, entertain
a strong East Carolina College squad tomorrow afternoon
in the Davidson pool in the Wildcats’ final pre-Christmas
meet.

Davidson was twice defeated' promise by fine showings in the

,last year, by the Pirates who loom opening meets.
‘as the second toughest team the’

‘Catfish will face in dual competi- | gy position for the Wildcats’ lid-

Catholic University provided the

tion this season. Only VMI, which | jitter, in which the homelings de-

soundly thrashed the Cats last: costed their guests in a well-con-

Monday. ranks as a stronger aggre-
gation.

In looking forward to the
East Carolina meet, coach
Thompson declined to single
out any individuals as out-
standing thus far, comment-
ing that the team effort was
to be credited for the show-

tested meet.

Pacing the Davidson victory
were Tommy Rivers end Jerry
Clark, both of whom scored a
first and a second, and Basil
Sharp, who captured first
place in diving competition.

VMI, the class of the Southern
ing made in the first two Conference swimming world, in-
meets. vaded the local pool on Monday
A strong fresnman turnout has and walked away with a decisive

been particulagly pleasing to the /62-23 victory. Rivers again placed |:

tank tutor, who noted that the|first and second in the 100-and-
first year men may ‘well develop | 50-yard freestyle events respective-

into the backbone of the team.Of|!y and Sharp again took top honors

the 17-man squad. seven—Bill Hel-|in the diving.

lier, Joe Bell, Art Miller, John| Following the Christmas _holi-
Scott, Bill Cobb, Craig Ray, and|days, the mermen will resume
Don Dublin—are freshmen. Sev-| action in a dual meet against The
eral of these have already shown Citadel at Davidson.

Cat Riflers Outfire P.C.
By 1 Point, 1253-1254

The Davidson rifle team, in matches during the last

DICK WRIGHT will spearhead Furman’s attack against David-
son tonight in Johnston Gymnasium at 8:15. The Paladins’ star,
averaged 16.7 points per game last year and acquired a berth on
the Second All-Southern Tourney Team. Coach Lyles Alley is ex-

pecting great things of the 5-11

Ratterree’s

PAGE THREE

Cats Clash With Furman
Purple on

Home Hardwood

Meet St. Joseph as Host
in Carrousel on Monday

By CHARLES MCGOWAN

The Wildcats will be looking for their third victory of
the season when they face the Furman Hurricane tonight
at Johnston Gymnasium. Game time is 8:15.

The clash tonight will be the last
time the local cagers will take to |™"-
the hardwood before. appearing in The Wildcats will have to make
the Carrousel Tournament. begin-!up in speed what they have con-
ning in Charlotte Dec. 17. ‘ceded in height. Should Coach
The tournament, being held for |Alley start the five who grabbed
the second scason. is gradually ' the early season starting berths,
: becoming one of the most colorful the Furman team will average 6
and -exciting of its kind held dur- feet, 42 inches compared with
ing the holiday season. This year 4" even 6 feet for Davidson.
fans wilt be watching such out-; Although Davidson has played
standing teams as Wake Forest,iFurman some close ‘tilts in the
Florida University, Colgate, Clem- past, it has been five years since
son. and Auburn. Davidson will!they have topped the Hurricane.
mect St. Josephs on the first night|The Cats won both contests that
of. play at 7:30. :season (1951-1952), 78-63 and 70-

LINEUP 51.

——

sophomore from Lansdowne, Pa.

Wildkitten

thus far-in the season and is ex-
post and Hollingsworth and Mar-| Approximately 15 students met

Semi Mintz, the casual sophia: | mn
pected to lead the local quintet g
in their attack tonight. Weeks will
tin will add needed height at for-|recently to form the new YMCA
{ ward. Milner, who has shown rapid : basketball team, a part of the“Y”’s

more Cat, has averaged 18.5 points

Play Junior Varsi
be holding down the other guard ay unior arsily
jimprovement, will tower at the/reyamped athletic program.

center spot. Under the leadership of Ralph

one who has ever attended an athletic event knows the sup-|three weeks. posted wins over Wofford and Presbyterian
port a distant delegation of any, size can whip up for their] College to bring their season’s record to three wins and two
team, consequently Davidson will need every backer they can i losses.

get. On November 23, Davidson won place. P C and Davidson are trail-
its second match of the season jng Furman by only one match,

Leading the Hurricane cagers| pricht. the squad's first game will
will be Statesville’s. Bill Hanks |), ‘vith the Jayvees on Saturday
(6 8 . a nee and Jiamy Fer inight, January 5, with a few other
ring (6° 5") in the forward position. | ames to be scheduled in January

Dick Wright will also see plenty ; ;
. . and February. The starting lineu
Height was the word Coach Ratterree used to describe | of action as guard. lis not yet vyeaitable. but the nun

Reveal Ability, Height |

By JIM HAMILTON

COUNT HEAVILY

Unfortunately only on that opening day will games
be played while the college is still in session, but it is
all the more reason for the Davidson students to give
all-out support on the one night.

Referring to the coming contest,
Wildcat Cage Captain Richard Weeks
pointed out, “A lot of boys that have
never played basketball before a crowd
just do not realize how much the cheer-
ing helps the performance of the
squad.”

ia

a

Weeks

“We on the team count heavily
on the support of the students, and
| know that it helps a great deal to
hear them pulling for you.”

Following Davidson’s game on Monday night, Wake
Forest, defending Carrousel champions from last year, will
meet Colgate at 9:00 p.m.

SELLING

General admission tickets for single games will be one
dollar. Seats in the reserve sections sell for $1.25 for after-
noon games and $2.25 at night. The finals which are on
Wednesday evening will be $2.75.

Reserve seat season tickets covering all twelve encounters
are six dollars, 50 cents a game, as compared to eleven dol-
lars if each ticket were purchased individually. On the campus
these season tickets can be purchased in Johnston Gym.

IMPRESSIVE

Speaking about the tournament Davidson sports pub-
licity director Dick McKee said that the Carrousel has been
getting excellent coverage from the Carolina newspapers and
looks as if it will be highly successful. Ticket sales are run-

ning higher than last year.

To those wondering about the ability of the St.
Jeseph’s squad, these Wildcat opponents placed third in
the National Invitational Tournament last season. This
year they have already downed Rhode Island 81-41, West
Chester State 93-43, and, most impressive, Manhattan

70-65.
MULES TOO

The other tournament newcomer that is unfamiliar to
many Dixie fans is Muhlenberg from Allentown, Pa. The
Mules, who have lost to Temple and won over Albright, are
listed in Who's Who in 1956-57 Basketball and are missing
only two of their top 13 scorers of last year.

Every high school in the two Carolinas have been in-

vited to send their basketball team to the clinic that is to be|knew was going to be a tough
held prior to the tournament on Monday morning. The eight | meet. Although the Cats won only’

head coaches of the participating colleges will instruct the
expected 1,000 boys in the fundamentals of basketball.

MERRY CHRISTMAS

A HAPPY NEW YEAR |
Wilson-Wright's Inc.

“Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N. C. |

by virtue of a forfeit from Wofford | while Wofford has not yet won.
when the latter failed to appear
for a regularly scheduled match. NEXT ACTION

PC met the Cats at Davidson on| There are no remaining matches
Dec. 7 in a close match, which| before the Christmas vacation, but
the Red and Black won by the! Upon returning from the holidays,
score of 1254-1253. Bob Alexander, the team will begin firing with
was high man for the locals, fol-|Southern Conference teams and
lowed by Carey Pickard and Char-| Will participate in several tourna-
lic Stowe. ments.

STANDINGS

Davidson is in a conference with
Furman, P C, and Wofford. At
present, Furman is in first place,
Davidson and P C are tied for
second, and Wofford is in fourth

Capt. Cavano, well pleased with

‘should “come around” even more
and be well prepared for the tough
competition that it meets after
Christmas.

Grapplers Blast Pfieffer
Lose to North Carolina

Traveling to Misenheimer,.N. C.,; ponents outweigh.him; at one time
Davidson's wrestlers. soundly de-
feated Pfeiffer College last Sat-
urday afternoon 33-5. Leaving the|
campus again Tuesday for Chapel '
Hill, they lost a close meet to the|man to handle.
Tar Heels by the deceiving score | -
of 20-8, their first loss to North
Carolina in four years.

The grapplers completely domi-
nated Pfeiffer, pinning seven men,
winning a decision over another. |
and dropping only one match. Had
Captain Henry Griffin been able
to make the trip, the team would’
undoubtedly have made a clean
sweep.

pounds.

STANDOUTS

Pete Coleman, Dave Fagg, and
Milton Gee were all standouts for
the Cats. Coleman pinned his man
in the relatively short time of
1:35. Fagg also pinned his man,
despite the fact that the opponent;
had beaten Dave three times while’
they were wrestling in High School.

Gee, who is wrestling for the
first time in college, came to Da-
vidson from Woodbury Forest
where. he was captain of the wrest-
ling squad. He has been improving
steadily this year, and Coach Park-
er is expecting a great deal from
him next year. |

NARROW MARGINS

The wrestlers met North Caro- |

lina Tuesday night in what they;

“0805

WINSTON

4

two matches, Carolina took three
matches by only one point, and
another match by only two points.
Commenting on the meet. Coach’
Parker said. “We should have won
by two or three points, but we
just couldn't take the close ones.”
BEST RECORD

Pete. Coleman was again the out-
standing performer for the Cats.
The stocky sophomore now has
the best record for the matmen,
having won four and lost only one.
Dave Fagg. who was the only other
man to win a match Tuesday, has
shown steady improvement this
year.

Fagg often has to work under a

‘handicap because many of his op-

the P C win, feels that the team.

this year’s Junior Varsity basketball squad. ‘‘We've got plenty
of height this year,” he said; “they’re a tall bunch of boys.”
The adjective fits well for the; bal! with both hands and John
thirteen freshmen. average around| Huie, probably the best hust-
six three. Another freshman, six| ier on the squad. The first
foot five Bud Hunter, is secing| five is rounded out by six foot
plenty of action in varsity ball| five Charlie Davis at the pivot.
and does not dress for JV games.) Ratterree has plenty of depth,
Coach Ratterree is especially}too. With boys like Tony Wiles,
pleased with his starting five. At) ponny MacQueen. Freddy Lane.
the guards he has two crack shoot-| Chris Bremer, Dave Nash. Charlic
ers in Jim Allison and Larry Mc-j pridges, and Ken Owen he can

MISSING
Both teams -this year will be
[without their leading scorers of
last’ season—Cobb for Davidson
and All-American Floyd for Fur-

- Bresses.

Head Coach Scott was also
pleased with the new crop of ball
players. “They have more good
prospects than last year’s team,”
he said. “Some of them will hetp

ber of hopefuls promised a wide
group from which to select.
Tentative plans are being made
for other “Y" sponsored athletic
teams, such as volleyball and soft-
bail. Contacts are being made with
“Y's in. nearby colleges and towns
,to find out if there is sufficient
interest on their part in such a
program. The YMCA hopes. in this
way to bring into its program
members who are not actively in-

Neil.

substitute freely without fear of

this year he was overmatched 30|record, have a long rest before
However, his quickness | their next meet which is here with
and stocky build make him a hard|North Carofina State on January

Make drionds with Winston!
WINSTON is always good company !

Here’s a cigarette you and your date can
get together on! Winston flavor is rich,
full — the way you like it. And the one and

Switch to WINSTON Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette! ~~ ~-

the varsity this year.” — {volved in its, activities.

Running at forward are Ed
Stewart, a six foot three jump-
ing jack who can “dunk” the

weakening the team.
Bremer drew particular praise

from Ratterree. “He's improved
more than any boy on the “|
|

the coach commented.

The Wild Kittens have piay-
ed two games to date. They
downed Guilford 60-51 in their
first outing but were downed
80-51 last Tuesday night by |
high ranking Wake Forest. !
Coach Ratterree commented that!

the weak showing was partially |
due to the fact that the boys have
only played together as a team,
for a few weeks. He feels that |
they'll improve as the season pro-

ALL CAPITOL AND DECCA LP’S 20° OFF

DIAMOND NEEDLES FOR ALL POPULAR
RECORD CHANGERS ONLY

$12.95

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

The grapplers, now with a 2-3

12.

ooo
‘a

——

LIKE A
CIGARETTE
SHOULD!

| ot | )
ye
‘ “Ss
al

only Winston filter does its job so well
the flavor really comes through! For finer
filter smoking, make a date with Winston! A. 3. Revnz.os
TeaACCO co.,

WINSTON-SALEM, N. G.

