Cat's Meow

— BY —

LEON HOWELL

The Georgia Tech View

Georgia Tech’s astute president said a few days before his |
death that “Our young men, in varying degrees, like to en-|
gage in competitive sports. At their ages I think they should. |)
think that competitive intramural and intercollegiate athletics |
are a fine part of their education even when they do nothing
but participate as spectators.

“Man doesn't live by bread alone, as the saying goes, and
if we are to educate the whole man we must concede that

there is something else in the world besides a community of |

scholars.”

In one final word on the value of athletics, I quote the
dean of the sport’s writers, the late Grantland Rice, who
penned:

“Perhaps I'm overfeatured

In the headline’s stirring plea.
Perhaps I’m more important

Than a mere game ought to be;
But with all the sins they speak of,
And the list is quite a span,

I'm the soul of college spirit,

And the maker of a man.”

Water, Water, Everywhere
Davidson's football team, along with 35 officials and 10
fans, got their Saturday evening bath early last week . . . De-
tected a weakness in the passing attack in that neither quarter-
back can throw while tredding water ... Too bad the finale
couldn’t have been more demonstrative . . . Backfield with
such as Conger, McRee, Campbell, Comer, Cutting, Fennegan,
Setzler, et al to move behind Belton and Little appears set
. Still need depth in the line and improved blocking all the
way around .. . Belton and McRee ought to furnish top notch
leadership for next season.

Around The Corner, Baseball!

Rain, longer days, with scattered sunshine indicate spring
and baseball are around the corner on the natural front. . .
predictions of .350 batting averages, 20 wins on the mound,
or another Cuban great on the citrus circuit introduce spring
in the newspapers .. . If the pitching comes through, we
ought to have another crack squad .. . If they can get a play-
ing field out of that mud slough that’s down on the field . . .
And wasn’t Clements the wise one when he scheduled a game
for almost every Tuesday . . . Ask the ROTC boys if it'll rain
those days . . . Incidentally, if you would like to buy a big
league team, the Detroit Tigers are on the block for $2,500,000.

I, along with every one else, was happy that my predic-
tion that Hobby Cobb might be overlooked for All Conference
went awry ... And how long has it been since Davidson has
placed a player on this team in a major sport? .. . It would
have been nice to see “Hot Rod” try his stuff with Weeks and
Mintz badgering him .. . It’s too bad that an injury stopped
Ray Harding only 36 short of becoming Davidson's second
scorer of 1,000 points . . . This NCAA rule that rules out men
with four year’s experience from tournament play has just
about eliminated any chances the South had for the champion-
ship, either from the ACC or SEC (along with Shavlik’s wound-
ed paw).

Inflation has struck Canadian football. The Canuck league
(pro) has marked up the value of the touchdown from five to
six points .. . The best football name for sport’s pages belongs
to Bob Zamzow of Northwestern. Ought to have exclamation
points after it .. . Don’t you wish that San Francisco had to
make a tour of the “Big Four’? They'd be lucky to split.

Hambright’s Departure

It’s going to be hard to feature the Athletic Department
without Coach Hambright around . . . He’s been a great asset
to Davidson, on and off the field . . . From all reports Ratarree
will be an outstanding replacement.

From Wednesday's observation, Armstrong and Ham-
bright were the shining lights in the IFC track meet . . . There
was little question about Tommy Brewer’s captaincy of the
All-star basketball team . . . And when has there been as
close and as well-balanced a race on the IFC front as the
basketball season produced? . . . Congratulations to Tommy
Rivers for being elected swimming captain . . . Selah!

Nonder Fabric — Best to Hold Crease and
Resist Wrinkles

We Now Have an Excellent Selection of

SUITS, SLACKS and WALK SHORTS
IN THIS FABRIC

_ 49.50 - 62.50
14.95 - 15.95
11.95

SUITS .
PANTS
WALK SHORTS _
| Wilson-Wright's
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

~

SIGMA CHIS, ATOs

TAKE IFC BASKETBALL

ALENDA LUX UB)

abidsonian

SEMI MINTZ CHOSEN
WILDCAT OF WEEK

ORTA LIBERTAS

PAGE THREE

FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1956

ATOs, Sigma Chis Cage Champs

F.C. All-Stars Named

By JOHN JOHNSON
On Wednesday, February

interfraternity

for the number three position.

During most of the season this
| Big Four jockeyed for the loop
| lead with the Betas leading while

| going into the final round. But the Shaw,

*

the most hotly contested}

basketball season in recent years came to a)
close with the ATOs and Sigma Chis tied for first in the mad |
scramble for places. The Betas and Kappa Sigs shared honors |

SECOND TEAM

Charlie-—Campus Club

Bob

davis

Sigma Chi

'leaders stumbled in. the stretch! Bright. Ralph—SAE
jand dropped their last two games.! Baker, Linny —ATO
Any member of the first six teams Brown. ¢ iti SPE
stood a strong chance of winning
the crown because a large portion HONORABLE MENTION
of their games were decided by |
only a few points | Reinhardt Buck—Pika
In a battle that lasted through Broughton. Tal--SPE
the final night the ATOs and Sigs, Waee. DaveKA
lead by Murry Page and Perrin); “"': ° :
Anderson respectively, withstood Long. Ralph—-Sigma Chi
the pressure to come out victorious | Powell, Roger--SAE
in 9 of their 11 contests. The Sigs) Comer, Don Phi Gam
lost only to the ATOs and Phi! pradford. Dave--SAE
Gams while the ATOs were downed | | Bolt. Joh: Sizma Chi
by the SAEs and the Betas. The re :
latter games Was typical of the | FINAL STANDINGS
competition of the whole season;
the onlookers shook the gym with Team Won _ Lost
shouts reminiscent of varsity sup-! ATO ‘ -
port as the number two team beat atin Chi 9 °
the league leader | tins 8 9
| Kappa Sis 8 3
F.C. Names All-Stars ss: 4
Phi Delts 6 5
FIRST TEAM SPE 5 6
Brewer, Tom-—-Kappa Sig—(Capt.) Phi Gam 4 7
Page, Murray—-ATO KA 4 K :
McLaughlin, John—Beta Pika 2 9
Andrews, Doug—Phi Delt Pi Kapp 2 9
Anderson, C. Club Z 9

Perrin—Sigma Chi

By OYVIND NORSTROM

Pete Ashchaft, Davidson's bright
est track hope for the 1956 season,
fulfilled all expectations in the
Atlantic Coast Conference indoor
meet in Raleigh last week by fin-
ishing second in a strong 880 yds
race. The only other Davidson en
try, sprinter Phil Koonce, has still
a long way to go before reaching
prime shape.

The ACC meet was the last
indoor event for the Wildcats,
who are now working for a
well composed outdoor pro-
gram. The schedule has been
slightly changed, and the first

STONESTREET'S
CAFE

Open Seven Days
a Week

PHONE 3-6241
450 S. Main Mooresville

‘M
8)
O
R’

QUALITY MILK

' ended,

|
|
|

}

| several

| break two of those

Ashcraft Husties in Conference Meet

meet will take place on
March 26 at Davidson. The
guests will be Williams Col-
lege and Furman. After the
Spring Vacations the team
goes down to Macon, Ga., for
a triangular meet with Florida
State and Mercer, and other
meets will follow through
April and May. The climax of
the season will be the Confer-
ence Meet with Virginia Tech
as hosts
With football
coach Pete Whittle now
has about the complete squad
| working out: It is still too early to
} know anything about the composi- |
ition of the team

On the whole, this year's track

| Prospects are bright. Coach Whittle | ,

and envisages
records, Ash-
is a sure bet to
The interfra-
ternity track meet that took place

}is very optimistic,
new school

craft, for instance,

| this week may bring new men out

for the teams, which has 7-0
| record to defend.

a

NOTICE!

Tommy Rivers, the swim
ming team’s high point man
and record holder in the 50
& 100 yd. freestyle, emerges
as captain of the Mermen for
next season.

spring practice |

WILDCAT

Hobby Cobb

AP All-Conference Team

“Observer”
that thrilled every
Davidson basketball fan. To wit
} | Hobby Cobb, Mr Uasketball around
i the campus for the past four years

morning’

|
|
| Sunday
- arried a story

lhe found himself on the AlbState
squad

Davidson is proud of her basket
ball prodigy and she looks forward
to having him with her for three
successful years. Our hats go off
to Semi- Mintz and we wish him
luck for a suecessful college ca
reer here at Davidson

RECREATIONAL SWIMMING

Dr. Scott has announced that
the Davidson College pool will |
be open for recreational swim-
ming from 3:30 until 5:30 each
afternoon except Tuesday
when it will open at 4:30.

“Opposite Ivey’s Fifth St. Entrance”
126 WEST FIFTH STREET

CHARLOTTE

Hobby Cobb, Ail Time Scoring Champ

, TAKE THIRD IN S. °

|
¥ By JIM PAGE
| On February 23-25, Davidson’s swimming team worked
at V.M.L. for the Southern Conference Swimming Champion-
ship. The Wildcats swam into third place. V.M.I., with a 166
; pt. total, placed first out of a list of seven entries. V.P.I. fol-
lowed the Cadets with 68 pts. and Davidson came next with 41.
Tommy Rivers, next year’s cap-1
tain, led the Davidson scorer’s with | touch at a turn and was disquali-

20 pts. Long Tom placed second| fied. Edwards, holder of the school
in both the 50 yd and 100 yd. free! reeord in the orthodox _ breast-
styles, and was also on the second! stroke, is counted as one of next
place 400 yd. free style relay team} year's mainstays along with Rivers,
along with Spier, Winfrey and! Carrell and Clark.
Carrell. Sixth place points, important in
Fourth place pts. were taken by! the third place team total, were
Basil Sharpe in diving, John Ed-| taken by Alex Shepard in the 400
wards in the 200 yd. breast, Jerry; yd. free style and Captain Ed.
Clark in the 220 yd. free style and| Spier in the 100 yd. free style.
the 400 yd. ‘medley relay team The team, this year, has worked
Clark’s time of 2:26.2 was good hard, They've cracked their guts
}enough to break the school ree-| along the water with the starting
’ ord | gun and they've swum until they
to Bill Carrell and John Edwards| couldn't raise their hands above
| added two pts. apiece to the team) their heads. The results prove the
| total by placing fifth in the 200 yd.| effort. Third Place in the Southern
back stroke and the 200 vd. breast-| Conference
stroke, Carrell was well on his way} Next year's team should be even
to taking second in the 200 yd. in-| better. Rivers will be back and so
Guilford) dividual medley, but failed to! will Carrell, Clark and Edwards.
Career total—1470 points
Career average— 16.7 (86 games) SPRING SPORTS SCHEDULES LISTED
This season was the climax: of

lhad joined such. illustrious. per his fine career, Starting every BASEBALL | May 4—-VPI at Blacksburg
/sonages as Hundley, Holup, and ' ime, he me = a So Of! Mar. 20- Presbyterian at Davidson May 5—VPI at Blacksburg
Floyd on the Al! Southern Confer. °" shots, averaged 22.7 points per Mar. 22 tawba at Davidson May 8 Furman at Davidson
ence ‘Team me, and led the team in re ygor og Catawba: at Salisbury GOLF
In the four years that Hobby has inds with 14 per game Mar. 27 Lenoir- Rhyne at Hickory Mar. 15—Rollins at Charlotte
been at Davidson, he has_ partici In appreciation for his contribu: | yar 29. Newberry at» Newberry Mar. 20—-N. C. State at Raleigh
pated in 86 out of 90 games, miss. "On, he was honored in pre-game} Mar 30-- Robbins AFB at Robbins,| Mar. 23—Furman at Greenville
ing those 4 only because of a Ceremonies on February 22 when Ga Mar, 28-—N. Illinois State College
broken finger at the end of last the famous No. 21 jersey was re) yar 31 Mercer at Macon at Charlotte
season tired for all time Apr. 2--Robbins AFB at Robbins,| Apr. 5—-Wofford at Spartanburg
In that time he has broken every Not only has he starred on the Ga Apr. 6—Presbyterian at Clinton
school record for seoring and re- basketball court, but Hobby has Apr. 6—-W. & Lee at Davidson Apr. 12—Furman at Charlotte
bounding. Amon hi most im- held many important positions on (2 games) Apr. 13--The Citadel at Charlotte
| portant marks are the campus. and has been named Apr.-10--VML-at Lexington \pr. 16-—N. C..State at Charlotte
ow oy One game. total.-39 potnan (vs. to ODK as well as Who's Who Apr, 11——VMIE at Lexington Apr. 19—Presbyterian at Charlotte
; Apr. 14—Belmont Abbey at David-| Apr. 24-—Wofford at Charlotte
' son May 3-—-The Citadel at Danville
Apr. 18—-Lenoir-Rhyne at Davidson! May 45—Southern Conference
Apr. 20--MeCrary Eagles at David Championships at Danville, Va
son TENNIS
To Semi Mintz. the freshman hardwooder who has looked Apr. 24——Furman at. Greenville Mar. 16—-Wofford at Spartanburg
he: eae _, Apr. 27--The Citadel at Davidson, Mar. 17—Furman at Greenville
good all year. the sports staff tips its hat. Mintz did not break Apr. 28—The Citddel at Davidson! Mar. 26-—-Mich: State at Davidson
any records this year, but his excellence in all respects of the yyay 1 -W. & M. at Davidson Mar..27-—Kenyon at Davidson
game of basketball deserves recognition. (2 games) Mar. 29—S. C. at Columbia
| Mintz’s valué to the Cats cannot Mar. 30—Mercer at Macon
tbe mistaken because of the statis Mar. 31—Ala. State at Troy
| tic which back him, His 223 points Spring Foetal Practice Apr. 2—-Ala. State at Jacksonville
ithis season for an average of 97 Apr. 4-—Colgate at Davidson
per game is not a matter which can \pr. 5--Kalamazoo at Davidson
be overlooked when determining y April 9—Duke at Durham
who the strong men. are on any in Apr..12-—-N. C. State at Davidson
} team. -Mintz stepped to the free Apr. 14—-Wash. & Lee at Davidson
| throw line 92 times this season and Apr. 18—Furman at Davidson
made 75 of his shots for 81.5 per Last Saturday afternoon, David-| ing was dangerous It was too wet Apr. 21--S C. at Davidson
cent accuracy which led the team $0n's football team knhoeked heads; The rain came down thiek .and) Apr. 27—Rollins at Davidson
hin free hots in an inter squad scrimmage. The) steady. When a man was hit you May  3-4-5—Southern Conference
| "The good: natured freshman | t¢2™ was divided into two squads} could sce the mud spvay. After a Tennis Championships at Wil-
| proved that he. is as goéd at. stop red and white The red tense few minute the uniforms of both liam &. Mary, Williamsburg,
ping high seorers as he is at mak rocked to a 60 victory teams looked the same. The players Virginia
| ing points in-the second game with| John Franc scored the only| even began fi wash off their eescend TRACK
Furman. In this game, Mintz held touchdown on a dive play from} in the puddles on the field. It was| ygo. 96 Furman-Williams at Da-
the All Ameriean Darrell Floyd to 'Wo yards out, after Dyke Lyttle | slow, muddy ‘pounding vidson
118 points, the lowest in 38 college set up the six points with a screen} | Apr. 7—Fla. State-Mercer at Macon
oat rhe fact: that he is cool un Pass. to Ken Conger from the | P In oe ee _ saaabtord Apr. 14—Clemson at Davidson
der fire, not easily  exeited or twenty, All the men out for spring | p rg dig ” mah ? ak Apr. 18—Richmond at Richmond
flight . perhap the answer to his practice played in the game | i 4 seseniaiasinaaale ait: Gori. he Apr. 21—The Citadel ‘at Davidson
sucet n the hardwood, The year rhe aetion consisted, mainly, of e.  desantes halfback, wie Apr 28—W. & Lee at Lexington
of experience which he nae gained mashes at the center of te line, elected Captain and Co-Cap- May a amp LeJeune
on the varsity will certainly be with Conger and Finnegan, the tain, respectively, of the foot- . at Ra igh ee
advantageous also in his sueeess two. fullbacks, carrying most of the fiett: -teemn: May 11-12—Southern Conference
for the remainder of his college joad. Wide stuff wouldn't go. Pass- Meet at Blacksburg,
| career er iF ea a ete aay : big ies aS era iy ot ean oe Re
Semi comes to us from Raleigh
where he. played for Needham
Broughton High. He looked good
s a eager all during his senior te) Ff
year and at the end of the season | An Operator’

par excellence

It’s not just his suave “pitch” —
he’s got the inside track on style
and value, too. Here, he sports
an Arrow Gabanaro—the sport
shirt that fits perfectly, in
neck size and sleeve lengthe
Gabanaro comes in a new lighter
weight rayon gabardine . . . 13
solid colors. Now available |
in a new medium-spread collar. *
Just $5.95.

