Cat's Meow

LEON HOWELL

THE YEAR IN REVIEW

Since the past year was one of the brightest ever in Wild-
cat Sport’s annals and not even the “roaring twenties” could
surpass it on the national level, it seems logical to pause a
moment and regard the significant events of the past year.

January—Navy, Ohio State, Duke, and Georgia Tech be-
gin the new year with a bang, finding bowl victories . . . Wild-
cat grapplers take UNC . . . Basketeers improve record ...
Bowden Wyatt drives his Cadillac from Arkansas to Tennessee
... “Babbling Brooks” makes its auspicious debut on the press

front.

February—Dr. Tom Séoit named new Athletic Director
. . . Dwyer beats Gunner Nielsen and Wes Santee, erstwhile

indoor mile record holders . . . Cobb breaks finger, halting his
scoring binge in a way opponents failed to do, after averaging
22.2 for season . . . Swimmers have 7-0 record.

The Ides of March

March—Ashcraft wins Conference indoor 1 & 2 mile
crown, taking second in Dixie Classic Maurice (The
Rocket) Richards is suspended and all Montreal riots .. . The
“Oldtimers” come back to wind up football spring training,
losing by 19-7 to the 1955 squad, in a surprisingly tough
affair... Kappa Sigs take basketball crown in IFC.

April—Track team still undefeated with 5-0 record .. .
Middlecoff runs off with Masters . . . While Dodgers are in
effect running off with the National league race .. . Bill
Rowland given Tommy Peters Award .. . Subsidization be-
comes primary athletic topic.

May—Tennis team repeats as Conference champion .. .
Clark turns tables on Keesler for singles diadem . . . Swaps
upsets Nashua in Kentucky derby .. . Ashcraft sets school
record in mile, while Koonce is high point man in Conference
. . . Baseball team winds up fine season, even applying the
tape to a couple of Rowland and Hope blasts.

“Summer Is Icumen In”

June, July, and August—Organized fun limited to those
fortunates at Fort Benning . . . Fleck whips Hogan in U. S.
Open golf . . . Trabert takes Wimbledon . . . Musial belts
twelfth inning homer to give Nationals all-star game . . . Col-
lege All-Stars take Cleveland in football tilt ... Nashua turns
tables on Swaps in match race, while Australia is doing same to
U. S. in Davis Cup play.

September Song

September—Cats take Catawba and Citadel in football on
passing power .. . Marciano clobbers Moore . . . Durocher fe-
signs . . . Elder cops cake race . . . Kappa Sigs awarded '54-55
IFC trophy.

October—Homecoming 54-0 success over W&L .. . Belton
named player of Week in conference . . . Believe it or not,
Brooklyn dumps Yankees in series as Podres and Amoros cap-
ture headlines . . . Cross country compiling usual fine record.

STATE WEDNESDAY

WRESTLERS TAKE N. C.

ALENDA LUX UB

The Davidsonian

ORTA LIBERTAS

TOMMY RIVERS SETS

SCHOOL SWIM MARK

PAGE FIVE

FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1956

BY LEON

In one of the, most exciting con-
tests staged at Davidson College in
the past few years, Furman’s high-
scoring Paladins edged Davidson
72-70. Out to revenge an earlier
defeat at these same hot hands, the |
Cats came up with their best over-
all effort this season in Johnston
gym last night

Led by ever consistent Hobby
Cobb, who had 20 for the affair,
Davidson went out at the halftime
leading by a 43-40 count. The larg-
est. difference in the seore oc-
curred immediately after the half
when Weeks hit two and Cobb one
to give Scott's boys a 49-42 edge.
However, a fellow of whom you
may have heard, Darrel Floyd, was
able to close this gap quickly. He
led Furman’s pointmakers with 18.

One of the largest crowds of the
year turned out to witness this
grudge match between these two
schools and the continual roars of
satisfaction brought many more
serambling for seats. Spirit was
high as the squad gave themselves
in an all out effort to upset the
highly favored team from the Pal-
metto state.

Mainly due to the bellicosity of
Semi Mintz and Richard Weeks,
Floyd was forced to stay deep and
fire at a distance. Always rushed,

HOWELL

he still managed to hit several
beauties, although his point total
was the lowest for him since the
beginning of his sophomore year. A
great shot, he has never approached
the brilliance of the incomparable
Selvy in his appearances against
Davidson

Hustling at all times, Davidson
combined astute ballhandling, ae-
curate shooting, and alert defensive
efforts to push the recent conquer-
ors of Richmond to the limit. When
Cobb was not in a position to drive,
Mintz, one of the smoothest articles
these eyes have seen, would force
the situation, either firing or pass-
ing off to an open teammate, and
the points began to mount. Dick
Weeks, Ray Harding, Joe Milner,
Mike Martin, Lew Spears, and Son-
ny Ferguson all drew cheers for
their performances

Perhaps the whole performance,
although not quite enough to win,
can best be symbolized by one play.
As the half was drawing to a close,
Dick Wright, flashy Furman guard,
broke down the court for an easy
layup. Mal McSwain, two steps be-
hind, cut across and in a tremen
dous play blocked the shot without
fouling the man. That type hustle |
was typical of the spirit of the
whole team.

The tank men of Davidson are
well on their way through another
swimming season. The team be
gan practice on November 1 and up
to the present has met three of
the ten scheduled teams. The re-
sults of these meets are two losses
to East Carolina College which is
located in Greenville, N. C., and
one win over The Citadel of
Charleston. This record which is
not by any means perfect is no in-
dication of the type of team David-
son has.

Coach Hambright says that he
has one of the. hardest working

ee eel
teams in the conference and that
the team usually reaches its peak
in performance during the first
part of February. Hambright also
said that the schedule this year is
a particularly hard one with East
Carolina and VMI on it. East Caro-
lina is considerably stronger this
year due to the fact that she has
added several powerful freshmen

j naturally have a powerful team.

November—Sigma Chis grab flickerball title . . . Belton! Hambright is expecting, however,

|

and Little to Gramley and Newton gives Davidson lock on)
Conference air game . ... Llewelyn lineman of week in con- |
ference .. . Tech takes Georgia, Tennessee edges Vandy, Army |
scrouges Navy, and Maryland winds up number three in nation.

December—Harriers third in conference . . . Miller re-
signs here, with Scott taking reigns . . . Berra and Campanella
named MVPs to surprise and dismay of many . . . Sugar Ray
does the monumental in flattening Bobo . . . Soccer makes its
entrance on the Davidson scene . . . Cleveland and Otto rout
the Rams for the pro title .. . Nashua is sold for $1,251,200.

And all this time the prince of the house of games, right
beneath our noses, has been convincing Grace Kelly that a
girl with a sporting interest ought to live on the Riviera . . .|
Selah! —

EXPERT MENDING and
ALTERATIONS
TOP QUALITY DRY

| the end of the season rolls around.

| permanently for the team

Jackson Cleaners

DAVIDSON, N. C.

to the team and VMI seems to just

at least a 500 per cent record when

The events whith the Cat tank-
sters seem to be especially. strong
in are the 100 yard sprint with
Rivers and Speir doing the work,
and the 200 yard medley with Car-
roll pulling the Cats through. The
divers are being led by Sharp, who
was a leading diver last year, and
also Bryan, who is only a sopho-
more. Rivers, who has made con-
siderable improvement this year,
broke the Davidson record for the
100 yard sprint. The old record,
set by Speir, was 56.3 seconds, but
in the meet with The Citadel, Riv-
ers whipped away the 100 yards in
56.2 seconds cutting the old rec-
ord by one tenth of a second.

out
this
year. These men are Jerry Clark
and Bob Wynne. Both men are
good and will probably rate high
in the Southern Conference with
two or three years of experience.
Wynne is a good all-round swim-
mer while Clark is better as a
distance man. Hambright was dis-
appointed with the freshmen re-
sponse to the team this year and
he seems to think that the future
looks dark for the team if better)
response is not given in the next |
two or three years. The team has |
only two seniors, Speir and Query, |

Only two freshmen came

this year but both of these men
will be missed next year. |

The swimming season will of. |
ficially end with the close of the!
Southern Conference Swimming
Meet which will be held in Lexing- |

DAVIDSON SWIMMERS MAY BE THE
BEST EVER PRODUCED HERE

BY CHARLES McGOWAN

ton, Virginia on February 23, 24,
and 25. It is much too early in the
season to give any kind of predic-
tions as to the outcome of this
meet.

The schedule for the remainder
of the season is a tough one, There
are only three more home meets
and the team needs your support!

The remainder of the schedule
1s:

Jan. 13-——-VMI there
Jan. 14—Wash. & Lee there
Feb. 6—VPI there
Feb. 8—Wofford there
Feb. 10--Clemson here
Feb. 11—Emory here
Yeb. 17—-South Carolina here
Feb. 23, 24, 25— Southern Con-

ference Meet—at VMI,

Cat

Lexington, Va.

Furman Wips Cats 72 to 70

FLOYD, NATION'S LEADING SCORER,
BESTED BY COBB IN SCORING DUEL, 20-18

Ray Harding drives in for two important points

Wednesday afternoon at Raleigh
the Davidson matmen scored a sur
prising 16-15 victory over North
Carolina State. Fielding an inex
perienced squad, the Wildeats did
well, winning four (4) matches out !
of eight (8), and one tie

In the 123 pound class, Pete Cole
man, outstanding Freshman, won|
over Clawson, 6-4. Woody Burns,
wrestling his first match of any
kind, lost a decision, 4-7. Wrestling
at 137 Ibs., Dick Neal outlasted
Magean of State, 6-4.

One of the outstanding men on
the State squad.was Kaplin, cap
tain of the Wolfpack, who pinned |
Grier Davis in the 157 Ib. match
Harold Westerfelt, at 167 Ibs., pin-
ned State's Miller in 2 minutes, 50
seconds. Larry Wright decisioned
his opponent, 64. Freshman Barry
Benton, in his very first match,
was pinned by Nardon at 177 Ibs

Grapplers
Defeat N.

C. State

in 3 minutes, 45 seconds.
However, the big surprise of the
afternoon came when Davidsor §
Dave Regen wrestled Al Henry,
heavyweight, to a 7-7 draw. Henry
was last year’s Atlantic Coast Con
ference 177 Ib. champion, and is
wrestling this year at heavyweight

Davidson entered the match at a
disadvantage, carrying a very in
experienced squad, There were five
Freshmen, 3 of whom had never
wrestled before, and one sopho
more with no wrestling experience.
Coach Charlie Parker has ample
reason to be proud of his squad.

This win was Davidson's first
over N.C. State in T-or 8 years
With this win, Davidson has won
all of its matches with North Caro-

lina teams, having defeated the
University of North Carolina earlier
in the season

BASKETBALL CAPTURES STUDENT
INTEREST IN WINTER MONTHS

BY JIM OVERALL

This year at the mid-point of the
}season the Davidson Wildcats are
going strong and have improved
decidedly since the first of the sea-
son. With a 7-7 record through the
VPI game, the Red and Black of
1955-56 seem to destined to

high scoring mark for a single
game. The previous high was in
the 1951-52 season against the
Citadel, which the Cats won 100-
66. Ray Harding led the scoring
spree with 30 points. It was Hard-
ing's best performance of his col-
better last year's fine record. Af-| lege career as he shaded team-mate
ter a rusty start, the Cats won five | Hobby Cobb by one field goal. Semi
| games straight, including a thriller} Mintz and Joe Milner showed more
lover VPI. The freshmen and other| class on the floor, and Dick Adams,

|men new to the first string have| senior guard, was one of the de-

be

jmeined valuable experience in the|fensive standouts. Danny Miller
learly season games, and the team | Davidson coach, was given a stand-
|has formed into a well-rounded] ing ovation lasting several minutes

junit that has plenty of drive and

since it was his final game as head

| determination Every game’ that is| basketball coach. The team pre-
| played means that the boys be-| sented him with one of his great-
jeome more accu tomed to playing) est victories since he came to Da-
} together, and they will probably | vidson,
ifinish the season with sinning |
So On December 19, 20, and 21, the
i. onan ‘ first annual Carrousel Basketba']
ve og ag Vildeats opened} ofassie was held in the Coliseum at
their 1955-56 basketball season Charlotte. Various civie c‘ubs in
against Furman on December 2. at the Mecklenburg County wee re-
the gga in Charlotte, North sponded with enthusiasm in acting
Carolina . Davidson hard-} as hosts to the teams their coaches,
wooders had the fir me jitters! and other personnel who were
and, after putting up ame fight guests in the Queen City
in the second hall | 86-66 :
Next on the list was the Univer- Davidson's next game was with
sity of Tennessee, who proved to the McCreary Eagles, a semi-pro
be too much | Davidson, as they team, at Asheboro, North Caso-

| lina, on January 2, 1956, The Wild-

defeated them 77-64. The Red and
Black agatr ved good second | Cts defeated the Eagles, for the
half. | first time in five years 93-78. Hobby
In their third game. of the oo scored 33: points, tis best for
3 the veur
son on December the sixth, Coach
Danny Mill team played Cataw The next night Wofford College
ba College the home opener at | defeated the Cats 96-67 at Spartan-
Johnston Gymnasium. Hobby Cobb burg, South Carolina, and on Jan-
sparked the 96-90 win with his 29) uary the sixth the Davidson Red
points and alse played a fine de- and Black team defeated the Cita-
fensive game with 27 rebounds, Joe del 66-55. VPI beat the Wildcats
Milner, the 6-6° freshman center 89-63 on the ninth at Blacksburg,
from. Atlanta had his best. game Virginia. Davidson played slow ball
to. date swishing in 22 points and as in the Wofford game, but Hobby
collecting 15 off the boards Cobb came through with 21 points.
On the ninth of December, Da Hobby and Ray Harding still main-
vidson played the College . of tain their one-two standings in in-
Charleston at Charleston, South “ividual scoring for Davidson.

Cobb’s average per game puts him

Carolina, and on the tenth they
at the number fourteen spot among

played the Citadel also at Charles-

ton. These two games are David. the nation’s major college individ-
son’s best so far. as the Cats beat, Ual leaders, and he also holds down
Charleston 93 to 70 and the Citadel the ninth position in rebound per-
93 to 64 centages.

VPI was Davidson’s next op The individual statistics through
ponent on the thirteenth of De- the Wofford game (eleventh game),
cember at the Wildeats gym. This not counting the games since then
was definitely the most exciting are:
game this season with Davidson Field Goal Total
winning in the fading seconds of Name Percentage Points Avg.
the ne 78 to 76. i Cobb 55.7 274 24.9

In winning their fifth straight | Harding 40.5 169 15.4
game ol the season, Danny Miller's | Milner 42.2 88 8.0
Wildest. wrote a new entry in the | Weeks 32.0 83 75
record books. They defeated Guil-| Team 893 81.2
ford College 108 to 65 to set a -new:| Opponents 868 78.9

f. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-

vYOu'LL BOTH GO FOR THIS CIGARETTE!

Haun above olt_tatt WINSTON

@ When it comes to real tobacco flavor, college smokers are going for
Winston! This good-tasting, easy-drawing filter cigarette not only brings you
finer flavor — but also a finer filter. The exclusive Winston filter works so
effectively that the flavor comes right through. Join the big switch to Winston!

SALrM. N.C,

