PAGE FOUR ;

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1956

THE DAVIDSONIAN

| Slants

-OCn=-

Sports

By JOHNNY JOHNSON

ADDITIONS TO TRACK
The physical facilities of Davidson College have under-
gone rapid expansion during the past four months. and the
athletic department has been no exception.

Probably the most notable change is the new curb lining
the track. The four-inch, cinder-block and concrete curb was
largely paid for by a $260-dollar contribution of the “D"
Club and a fund started by alumnus Walt Dixon. Dixon, a
former track athlete, donated $390 several vears ago

The new curb will now make Davidson's track a true
440 yards, and. thus render the school eligible to hold official
conference. meets. Coach Whittle will request that the 1958
Southern Conference Track Championship be held on. this
campus.

Because of changes in the position of the track. it was
necessary to move the football field markings both north and
east, centering the 50-yard line with the stadium

ADDITIONS TO GOLF

Directly east of the upper tennis courts the college is

building a chipping green to supplement the putting green. |

The new 60-foot green will consist of two levels. The base
of cinders and crushed brick will provide it with both proper
spring and drainage. Dr. Scott says that the green will com-
pare with any in this area.

ADDITIONS TO BASKETBALL

Most striking of the summer projects is the sanded and
refinished basketball floor in Johnston Gym. During the
original construction of the gym. the floor was laid too soon
after the concrete base had been poured in an effort to keep

on schedule. The resulting warping in some ‘sections had
never been corrected

The floor is not only more nearly level, but it is also
less confused with boundry lines of other sports. The wide

out-of-bounds markers make it easier for players in action
to sense when they are near the lines, and the red and black
“Dp” in the jump circle adds color

WELCOME... D.C. STUDENTS...

as

MIDWAY PHARMACY

AT THE SHOPPING CENTER
Cornelius-Davidson At the Underpass

FRIDAY, SATURDAY, SEPT. 28-29
FREE — 10c LEMONADE — FREE

With Any Purchase
FOUNTAIN — SUNDRIES — DRUGS

Cats

After downing Catawba 20-6, the Wildcat football squad
is looking for its second win of the season at 8:00 Saturday
night as they meet the Bull-dogs of The Citadel at Charleston,
s. C.

Dole and his squad clearly el field will be composed of Price
member the rainy day last year at center, Fagg and Lee at
when General Mark Clark’s Bull-

tackles, Gramley and James at
dogs invaded Davidson with the guard, and Wall and Wester-

most powerful team they had had

velt holding down the end
In this game the muddy

cages positions.
home field and one Citadel fum puncere
ble were the main factors: that con- The “Cats take the field tomor-

row with one victory beneath their

tributed to the ‘Cat’s 62. victory.
Again Citadel promises to give | Delts. Last weekend found them
the Wildeats a tough game. How. @t Memorial Stadium in Charlotte

where they beat the passing

ver, inexperience will be a prob

em to the Bulldogs since they wil] Indians of Catawba by 14 points
have to use many freshmen and After a slow Ist quarter, action
phomores in the starting line- abounded in the next. In the first
ut few minutes #f the second period
Citadel's coach, John Saver, ‘at quarterback, Dyke — Littl
broke up the stalemate by scamp

hopes.to make it an interest-
ing season for the fans by fea-
turing the horse race offense
—attempting three plays per
minute. His halfback, Coia,
who runs the 100 in 9.5
seconds, should be one of the
principle speeders.
Coia and his running mate Broom
will make up the main vertebrae
{ the Citadel backbone this week-
end. Calling the signals for the Campagna of returning
will be quarterback the kick-off up to Indian. 35

ze who played a year of Four plays later ailed
football. through right tackle breezed
The ‘Cats will have MeRee Mis way down aire yarns
and Comer along with the for the lone Catawba and
promising freshman fullback, the only touchdown of third
Warden, doing most of the quarter.
ground work. Handling the In the final quarter, Warden
signals and aerial attacks will again was in the limelight when
be Belton and Little. The pro- he scored the third-and final touch
tective wall for the ‘Cats back- down for the ‘Cats

FLICKER BALL ON MONDAY

IFC Sports

Sports pro-, Thursday
1, when
vie for

right end behind
effective blocking for a 45 vard
run to the 2 yard line. The. first
seore of the ball game came seconds
later when Davidson's Dave
Warden plowed over from the one
yard line. Only eight more plays
elapsed before John Francis
crashed. over, from the one

The opened with

ering around

also
half
Catawba
the
Davi
and

field 33

second

score

the

The Interfraternity during the rest of the

gram. opens Monday Oct.
football teams

eight tag
eason honors

season.

The 56-57 Interfraternity athletic
program was organized Sept. 25,
when Coach Heath Whittle met
with the fraternity sports manager
in the Trophy Room of Johnston

early

In action on the four local fields.
will be the Phi Gams against the
Sigma Chis, the Kappa Sigs against

the Pikas, the S.A.E.’s against the Gym.
ata = — The committee arranged an. ex
cape tensive sporting calendar inelud
Due to changes of practice lo- ing tag football, basketball, swim-
jcations in varsity sports, two tag ning tennis, wrestling, track, soft
jfootball fields will be located on ball, volleyball, table tennis, and
the if course. Four games a day haridball. i
will be played Monday through
“. A round robin system of play

a ee we

traveling in

| tee BM.O.C. is here!

Big model on campus, that is. It’s the new
Arrow University
of smart colle
collar in front—to center button and full
box pleat in ba
tyle
in the season’s highest rated patterns.

Oxford cloth shirt (in white and five muted
colors, including new
model in authentic tartan stripes, $5.95;

checks and st

will be used in the 3 major sports,
flickerball, basketball, and soft-
ball plus the minor sports, volley-
ball and handball

hirt.. . . all-around choice

ge men, from button-down

k. And these men are really
with their Arrow ties...

linen”), $5.00; same

ripes in cotton-rayon, $7.95,

R. J. Reynolds Tob. Co., Winston-Salem, N. Cc.

gin Season

Wildcat ovarierback Dyke Little (No. 13) rolls around right
end as he begins a 45-yard scamper that ended on the Catawba

two-yard line. Davidson blockers cleared the path for this option

play which worked effectively all night. The second quarter
action in Friday's game set up the first touchdown.
was 20 to 6.—Photo by Frank Daniels.

ya

7
4
Me ae,
_- +
~
Hw
= »

4
ad

ine
4

The Cats

FIRST OF 32 MATCHES

Rifle Team Opens With
Pre ian Next Week

With a backbone of six lettermen returning from last year,
Davidson's rifle team, under the guidance of Captain A. T.
Cavano, is looking forward to its first match, next Friday
against Presbyterian College.

This’ is the second year that Counting on their previous experi-
Davidson has put a rifle team) gncoe, the Wildcats are looking for
among varsity athletics. Because/ 4, gyen better season this year.
there. wer no matches scheduled pe depth of the team, however,
until late in November last: year, | win) Jargely depend on men shoot-
this will be the first complete sea-|jne for the first: ‘time.
aon: VMI. and The Citadel are

Lust year’s riflemen won over looked to for the roughest compe-
50 percent of their matches./ tition in a schedule which includes

all North Carolina R.O.T.C. units,
and also all schools in the South-
fern Conference.

Twenty-one of the matches
are postal matches, in which
the competing teams fire on
their home ranges, and then
compare their scores through

and track | th it
will be held’ in two: day meets, | spilt ca aa

Tournaments will determine the | There are nine other matches in
winners of table tennis and ten-| Which the teams actually meet on
ja designated range, and fire
|shoulder to shoulder. In addition
The only significant change over | to the above 30, there are also two
last season will be’ the method | conference meets scheduled.
of selection for referees. Instead} Although coached by. members of
of appointing certain men at the | the R.O.T.C, department Snvidien’s
start of the season, fraternities | si¢je team is a branch of the ath-
will be responsible to provide 4/letie department and operates as
referee for specific games. The! a Southern’ Conference sport.
responsibility is thus shifted
from the individual to the fraterni-|
ties.

Wrestling, swimming

nis.

Practice is held every week-day,
except Tuesday, from 1:30 to 4:30.
| Anyone interested in joining the

The traditional IFC trophy will) rifle squad is urged to see Captain
be given to the fraternity compil-|Cavano or Sergeant Butts in their
ing the greatest number of points| offices during the day or on the
during the year.

|rifle range during practice hours.

We te. oe)

a

y el

Of course. Most
everyone does—often.
Because a few moments
over ice-cold Coca-Cola
refresh you so.

It's sparkling with natural goodness, pure and
wholesome—and naturally friendly to your figure.

Feel like having a Coke?

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

“Coke” is o registered trade-mark. @© 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Discover the difference between “just smoking” and Camels!

CIGARETTE... have a anuel,

|!

Cert ene eee emg

You'll find Camels taste richer, fuller, more
deeply satisfying. The exclusive Camel blend
of quality tobaccos brings you smooth smoking.
You're sure to enjoy Camels, the most
popular cigarette today. They've really got it!
