Who’s Who Announces Selection of Fifteen Seniors

g@
at

Hunter
By DAVID ROBINSON

Mr. H. Pettus Randall, publisher
of Who’s Who Among Students in
American Universities and Col-
leges, confirmed the selection of
fifteen Davidson students for this
distinction last Wednesday. The
organization, in its 23rd year of
existence, selects students on the
basis of scholarship, leadership, co-
Operation in educational and extra-
curricular activities, citizenship,
and promise of future usefulness.
Chosen from the Davidson cam-
pus were: Jim Batten, Gordon Bon-
durant, Carl Cooper, Tony Dick,
John Gilmer, Vernon Hunter, Jim
Kuist, Dan LaFar, Dyke Little, Don.
ny: McRee, Tom Morgan, Bunny

LaFer

LETTER HITS
PARKING RULE
(Page 2).

VOL. XLV

Batten

Perkinson, Reitzel Snider, Larry
Trotti, and Ed Young.

Jim Batten, a Baker Scholar, has
continually served the Davidson
literary world, in the past on the
Wildcat Handbook Staff and a man-
aging editor of the Davidsonian,
and now as the school paper’s
editor-in-chief. A member of Beta
Theta Pi and ODK, the Holland, Va.
native finds time for military in-
terests, as evidenced by his position
on the ROTC Regimental Staff and
his status of Distinguished Military
Student.

Gordon Bondurant, hailing from
Winston-Salem, N. C., centers his
interest in YMCA work, serving
now as president after working as

Classical Club Holds
Organizational Meeting

The Classical Club, Davidson College’s newest organi-
zation, held its initial meeting last Wednesday night in the
Quadwranglers’ Room in Chambers Building. There were|ciubs, to be held December 6. 7,
slightly over thirty members present at this organizational and 8, on the University of South

meeting.

Dr. George Labban, faculty spon-
sor of the club, conducted the
business session until the charter
officers had been elected. The fol-
lowing men were chosen: Presi-
dent, John Trotti; Vice-President,
Grier Davis; Seeretary, Willie
Thompson; Treasurer, Tom Ker-
nan. The newly-elected president
appointed a program committee,
chairmaned by the vice-president
and a refreshment committee head-
ed by Barry Benton.

PROGRAMS

President Trotti and Dr. Labban
led the discussion concerning dues
and programs for the year. Sev-

re

©

if

ah

—
Ld
Bondurant

a vice-president and director. His
activities vary to include baseball
and membership on the IFC and
in ODK. In the past, Gordon has
been IFC representative of his
fraternity, Beta Theta Pi.

Carl Cooper, known to freshmen
as their adviser, is a resident of
Durham, N. C., and president of
Beta Theta Pi. The Baker Scholar
and ODK member in previous years
has served as junior class represen-
tative of the student council and as
a director of the Y.

Tony Dick, student adviser and
senior student council member, is
the vice-president of Beta Theta
Pi. Tony works actively in YMCA
work, last year serving as president

IRC invites Davidson
To Regional Meeting

Representatives from Davidson
College have been invited to at-
tend the organizational conference
‘of the Southeastern Regional Asso-
ciation of International Relations

Carolina campus at Columbia.

Cooper

eral programs are already in the| Other South Carolina colleges
planning stages. These include aj participating as co-host for the con-
film and visits by noted speakers| ference include The Citadel, Coker
and authorities on the classical College, Columbia College, Con-
languages and the Graeco-Roman verse College, Furman University
civilization. and Winthrop College.

According to the president, one} Speakers at the conference will
of the club’s initial discussions | include Dr. Philip E. Mosely, head
will be centered on the examina-|of the Russian Institute of Colum-
tion of the A.B. requirements for | bia University, and John C. Broger,
graduation. In the lighter vein,| principal advisor to Admiral Rad
a genuine facsimile of a Roman|ford on the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
banquet, complete with regalia and| Permanent officers of the region
ritual is also being planned. will be elected at the conference.

Club membership is open to|Sylvia J. Hanna and Carl M.
all who have an interest and an| Reynolds, both of the University

(Continued on Page Four) of South Carolina, are temporary
chairman and secretary, respec-
tively.

¥

Morgan

of the Bible Class, this year hold-
ing the post of Spiritual Life. He
makes his home in Memphis, Tenn.

John Gilmer serves as president
of the Honorary Fraternity Coun-
cil in addition to his duties as
head of Gamma Sigma Epsilon. A
Baker Scholar and Distinguished
Military Student, John busies him-
self also with his jobs as treasurer
of Kappa Alpha and as a Battalion
Commander. His home is Bristol,
Tennessee.

Vernon Hunter, a Charlotte na-
tive, presides over ODK and Phi
Delta Theta. His student council
service includes membership as
junior and senior class represen-
tative and in the Y he has worked

- |
| OR. T. Z. KOO

KOO 10 ADDRESS
'Y’ ABOUT FAR EAST
RELIGIOUS TENSIONS

Dr. T. Z. Koo, visiting professor
at Bucknell University and former.
ly Secretary of the World's Stu-
dent Christian Federation for 14
years, will speak at a YMCA Mem-
bership Meeting on Wednesday
night, November 28, at 8:15 in the
Union.

Gilmer

as a member of the cabinet. A past
moderator of the Assembly’s Youth
Council, Vernon was formerly vice-
president of the sophomore class.

Jim Kuist serves Davidson as the
editor of Scripts 'n Pranks, presi-
dent of Sigma Chi and Sigma Upsi-
lon. Calling Princeton, N. J. home,
Jim is a past member of the male
chorus and a member of the
Philanthropic Society.

Dan LaFer, president of the Stu-
dent Body, is a Kappa Sig and
plays on the golf team. Elected to
ODK in the spring, Dan holds the
distinction of having had his father
attend Davidson before him and
serve as president of the senior
class .of 1931. The LaFars live in

ye Dautdsontan

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1956

Young

Snider Trotti

Tom Morgan, a Baker Scholar

Gastonia, N. C.
: iling from iss., is sec+
Dyke Little, outstanding footbal hailing from Jackson, Miss.,
yke Little, outstanding foot all etary of Alpha Tau Omega. He

quarterback and baseball player.: d : :
spends much of his time in military Se"Ves #s president of Alpha Pst
interests as a Distinguished Mili- O™C84, honorary dramatics fra-
tary Student and company com. t€tnity.
mander. An SAE and Hickory, N; Bunny Perkinson, president of
C. resident, Dyke was recently; the senior class, busies himself in
eleeted into ODK. the fraternity world with the presi-
tors idency of the IFC and the rushing
Donny McRee, living in Newton. program of Phi Delta Theta. Living
N. C., is co-captain and halfback of | in Chattanooga, Tenn., ODK mem-
the Wildcat football squad. Al bor Bunny is a Union Carbide
physics major and ODK member, Scholar
he occupies himself in such other | ‘
activities as baseball, treasurer of |

Perkinson

Reitzel Snider, Distinguished

Sigma Phi. Epsilon. Battalion Com-. Military Student and. Judge of the.

Mander, and rember of the Scab: Court of Control, captained the Da-
bard and Blade. | vidson wrestling team and com-

1 f
X af

Little

mands the ROTC regiment. Reitzel
is a member of ODK and calls
Winston-Salem, N. C., home.

Larry Trotti, KA president and
battalion staff member, obtains dis-
tinction as a member of Phi Beta
Kappa. The Decatur, Ga. native also
has membership in Scabbard and
Blade and Le Cercle Francais.

Ed Young holds the office of
editor of Quips and Cranks and
treasurer of ODK. An SAE and
Distinguished Military Student, Ed
is vice-president of the Eumenean
Society and a Member of the Scab-
bard and Blade. Louisville, Ky. is
his home.

McRee

KAPPA SIGS COP
MAT TITLE
(Page 3)

SS ee

No. 9

_.|\Red and Black Masquers Present

First Production, “The Rainmaker’

IFC Names Committee!
To Push Blood Drive —

Last Tuesday night the IFC held
a meeting at the College Union
and appvinted several committees.

John Trask is the head of a com-
mittee organizing the blood drive
that will be held December 3-4.
This drive is being co-ordinated
with the fraternities in a special!
setup with the R.O.T.C. depart-
ment. Every student who gives
blood will be given a free cut in}
R.O.T.E.

A committee was assigned to
look into the possibilities of im-
proving the fraternity situation if}
the student body is raised to 1000. |
The college has proposed this in-’

Theme of the program is “The
New Challenge of the Soviet.”
The program will include two

He will discuss the religious|crease in: enrollment, but it has;
situation in the Far East in gen-|not yet been: decided. If it should
eral and China in particular in|/happen, the number of fraternitios

banquets, an informal dance, busi-
ness sessions and discussions.

Mme,'; [Beaver Club Initiates
112 New Members

In a meeting of the Beaver Club
eartier this ‘month twelve new
sophomore members were initiated
into the club.

They are: Craig Wall, Henry
Brown, Tom Johnson, Bill Fergu-
son, Semi Mintz, Pete Coleman,
John Kuykendall, Sam _ Sloan,
Charlie James, Jerry Clark, Angus
McBryde, and Charlie Rutherford.

f

Bob Baker was elected president of the Chinese Young Men's Chris: |:

his talk, “Religious Tensions in
the Far East.” Then, in a- chapel
speech Thursday morning, his
topic is “The Future of National-
istic China and its Relationship
with the Communists.”

Dr. Koo has been a leading
figure in the spiritual life of the
world. From his Federation head-
quarters in Geneva, Switzerland,
he traveled extensively on every
continent and visited the great
majority of the countries of the
world.

CHINESE YMCA

Born, raised, and educated in
China in the modern city of Shang.
hai, Dr. Koo entered the service

jor the size of.their houses would
‘have to be enlarged because of
the large percentage of students
who belong to fraternities at Da-
vidson.

Also discussed at the meeting
was the annual Christmas Party
for the Barium Springs Orphanage.
The date for this was set at De-
cember 13.

The general procedure for the
IFC meetings is to bring up sub-
jects and ‘then have the representa-
tivés for each fraternity in turn
bring them up at the fraternity
meetings. In this way, matters are
thoroughly diseussed before the
IFC makes them definite.

BACK STAGE HANDS were

Hoagland operating the lighting.

busy tonight as the curtain went

up on the Red and Slack Masquers’ production of “The Rainmaker.”
Ray Craig (left) handled the curtain and prompting chores, with
John Trotti (foreground).in charge of special effects and Bob

Board of Visitors Meets
With Trustees Today

Ww ee
lu PHILIPPE ENTREMONT
*,,. with the spirit and tire of youth.”

SOLID, POWERFUL ARTIST

Entremont Gives
FirstD.C.Concert

of the club for the ensuing year. tian Association in 1917. During
Also elected were John Morgan, this time of expansion and con-
vice-president, and Bill Ferguson, solidation of Christian student
secretary-treasurer. Dr. Tom Scott: work in China, his forthright advo-
serves as the adviser for the club. cacy of Christian principles in in-
The hew members are selected ternational relations brought him
from the sophomore and junior! world-wide recognition.
classes on the basis of athletic) pr Koo became full-time secre-
ability and leadership ability. tary of the World’s Student Chris-
.tian Federation in 1933. Loved

‘and ted th hout th Id
ROTC Dept. Holds ity siose’ino have come to know

his as artist, sage, prophet, and
Annual Turkey Shoot

statesman, he is one of the few
men in our time who has done so

Dr. Wm. Kadel Will
Lead Vesper Service

Vespers this Sunday evening,
will be conducted by Dr. William
Howard Kadel of Orlando, Florida.

Dr. Kadel is presently the minis-
ter of the First Presbyterian
Church in the state of Florida.

A native of Pennsylvania, Dr.

Plans for the future of Davidson College began to take
shape here today when the Executive Committee ef the Board
of Trustees met with the newly-formed Board of Visitors.

A combined altendance of more
than 30 heard a report by Dr. Johniof Gastonia.
R. Cunningham, president of the' Also, Frank P- Hall, Jr., of Bel-
college, and inspected the college mont, Dr. John A. Redhead of
plant. Greensboro, John I. Smith of
The first meeting began at. 9:45 | Travellers Rest, S. C.. the -Rev.
am.. and was followed by a tour) Fred R. Stair of Hickory, and the
of the campus at 11:30 am. After;Rev. W. T. Thompson of Rich-
a luncheon in the David Ovens|mond, Va.
College Union, the’ group held a7) John M. Akers of Gastonia,
second mecting at 2 p.m. chairman of the Alumni Fund, and

Reception and Dance
Follow Presentation

Tonight and Saturday at 8 p. m.
in Chambers Auditorium the Red
and Black Masquers’ production: of
The Rainmaker takes the stage for
the first of this year’s performan-
ces.

The presentation comes as the
climax of several weeks of inten-
sive preparation by actors and
stage crew, .

Appearance on a color television
program by several members of
the cast prefaced tonight's produc-
tion. Four of the cast gave a short
skit Thursday afternoon on WBTV
in announcement of the play.

In full dress for the play the
four gave an idea of their individ
ual character and also something
about the play. Those participating
in the skit were Carrol Sherrill.
George Kemmerer, Bill Pfeffer-
korn. and Stuart Fountain.

The three act romantic comedy
has its setting in a western state
in a time of drought. The play
revolves around the Curry Family.
Pop (Harry Paschall) and his sons,
Noah (Ray Atkinson) and Jim (Jack
Lohman) are worried as much
about Lizzie (Carol Sherrill), the
daughter in the family, becoming
an old maid as they are about the
cattle dying in the drought.

Their attempts to mate her with
the sheriff's deputy File (George
Kemmerer) seem futile. Then sud-
denly from out of nowhere appears
a picturesque character with a
flowing speech and the most grand-
iose notions a man could imagine.

He calls himself Starbuck and.
claims to be a “rainmaker.” In this
title role is Bill Pfefferkorn, and
also involved in the final outcome

(Continued on Page Four)

Andrews Will Speak
Concerning Taxation

T. Coleman Andrews. defeated
candidate for President of the
United States on the States’ Rights

Kade! did his undergraduate study |

at Gettysburg College and received! Prominent leaders in business. Charles F. Myers of Greensboro,

ticket, has tentatively agreed to
and|president of the Alumni Associa-

much to bring the diverse peoples

The annual Turkey Shoot spon- education

Returning to America by popular demand, Philippe En-
tremont, French pianist, will be featured in the third event
of the Artist Series next Monday, at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers.

This is the first appearance at
Davidson for the brilliant young
artist. Critics dub him as a “master
of the keyboard possessing the
spontaneity of youth in one bril-
liant performance after another.”

In January and February, 1953,
he toured the United States for
the first time, as the visiting artist
on the interchange program of
the National Music League and the
Jeunesses Musicales de France.

Highlighting his tour was his
Carnegie Hall appearance, present-
ing the American premiere of the
new Jolivet Concerto with the Na-

tional Orchestral Association, Leon
Barzin conducting, a performance
which “brought down the house.
It was a performance done with
the spirit and fire of youth, plus
a technical and musical mastery
of an extremely talented music-
ian.”

Entremont has received nothing
but the most favorable reviews
and responses from his perform-
ances both in America and Europe.

Commenting on his style, a re-
view from Bayonne, France cited

(Continued on Page Four)

sored by the ROTC Department
and the Scabbard and Blade will
be held Tuesday, November 20,
at 4:00 p.m., in the sub-basement
of Belk Hall.

All men ana women over 20
years of age are eligible to win
prizes including two turkeys and a
chicken. Movies, cartoons and
games will be offered to the chil-
dren under 18. Youngsters will
be entertained in the ROTC De-
partment and will not be allowed
on the rifle range for safety and
control reasons.

Coffee and soft drinks will be
available to both old and young
guests.

er ee
SUE aareeieee a RA ene

of the world to a greater under-
standing and appreciation of each
other's culture and manner of life.

ESCAPE TO FREE CHINA
In September, 1944, disguised as
a peddler of women’s underwear,
Dr. Koo set out from Japanese-oc-
cupied Shanghai on 4 hazardous
journey to Chungking and Free
China. He walked 850 miles in 44
days through hundreds of towns
and villages of his war ravaged
native land. The suffering and
destruction he witnessed and the
personal hardships he endured on
his long trek have deepened and
made more moving his previously

(Continued on Page Four)

his Bachelor of Divinity degree
from Western Theological Semin-
ary in Richmond.

From 1938 to 1942 Dr. Kade}
served as pastor of the First Pres-
byterian Church of Trafford Penn-
sylvania. During the Second World
War he was Deputy Staff Chaplain
of the Third Air Force.

Returing to the parish ministry
in 1945 Dr. Kadel filled the puipit
of the Palma Ceia Presbyterian
Church of Tampa until his call
to Orlando in 1953.

‘public —_ affairs,
‘church lifé were represented in|tion, also attended.
both the Visitors and ‘Trustee; Eleven of the newly-appointed
| groups. The purpose of the Board| Visitors have accepted invitations
of Visitors. holding its first mect-{to attend. Included are Edward
ing. is to promote the overall cf-;Dwelle of Jacksonville, Fla. Mrs.
fectiveness and welfare of the {J. N. Hynson of Scarsdale, N. Y.,
college. iand Mrs, Curtis B. Johnson of Char-
Control of Davidson is in a 55-, lotte.
man Board of Trustees, headed by| Also, Charlotte business execu-
the Executive Committee. The! tive James J. Harris; Howard Hold-
Board of Visitors witl serve in anjerness of Greensboro, president of
advisory capacity. the Jefferson Standard Life In-
Among the trustees who were|surance Co.; C. A. McKnight of
present are George S. Crouch. Dr. Charlotte. editor of the Charlotte
Hamilton W. McKay, Dr. Thomas! Observer; Dr. Dean Rusk of New

Florida members of the student!D. Sparrow and Ivey W. Stewart| York, chairman of the Rockefeller
body describe Dr. Kadel as a vigcr-|of Charlotte: Dr. C. Grier Davis | Foundation.

ous and interesting speaker.

of Asheville; and Dan R. LaFar, Jr. (Continued on Page Four)

speak here on the subject of tax-
ation sometime early in December.
Mr. Andrews will be sponsored by
the Business-Economics Associa-
tion.

Andrews was an official in the
Bureau of Internal Revenue in the
Eisenhower administration but re-
signed because he disagreed with
the President's tax policies. The
abolition of the income tax was one
of the planks in his platform in the
recent campaign.

The Association is also planning
this week to issue bids for mem-
bership to ‘juniors and seniors. pri-
marily business and economics ma-
jors, although this is not a pre-
requisite for memberbership.
