PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1957

: ® 8 was published’ by Harpers i lth re will be a coffee hour for
THIS Wet ek / NE ON + S Pp T Wall Street Banker Baplist Official 1953 and became a best-seller. | Dr. Adams in the Ball Room of
D A Vv iD So N . ° e In addition to his writing, he|the College Union under the
__ ; Views Financing To Deliver Talk conducted a daily radio pro-! auspices of the YMCA. All stu-
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19 gram and a weekly television
‘ Wednesday night. Mr, Robert
A. Kerr, Vice-President of Irv-|

dents and faculty members are
The top official of the Bap- feature, “The Pastor’s Study”.| invited to meet Dr. Adams at
‘Itist World Alliance, Dr. Theo-| Following the chapel period,

this time.

. _ ' . ° . . . . h
2:30—Football—Davidson vs. West Virginia Tec ing Trust Company of New dore F. Adams, of Richmond,
Here — 7 : York, gave the Business-Eco- Virginia, will address the stu-
7:00—Movie—“Ruby Gentry”—Union Ballroom [nomics Club a discussion of the dent body during chapel on
financing of big corporations Thursday, October 24.
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 20 by Wall Street bankers. A native of New York, Dr.; H 0 M E ( 0 M | N 6 ene !

Adams received his undergrad-
uate education at Denison Uni-

versity in Ohio, where he was! yw vw
a member of Phi Beta Kanes)  "FRESHEN THE IMPRESSION

Mr. Kerr considered the or-
ganization of Irving Trust Com-
pany and gave some detailed '

7:30—Vespers—Reverend James T. Cleland

MONDAY, OCTOBER 21 examples of the firm's opera-
. : tions. He outlined case histories Omicron Delta Kappa, and Beta
12:30-6:00—Check annual proofs— Union showing how Irving Trust, as Theta Pi. His theological train-
a commercial bank working ing was received at Colgate
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 22 with investment bankers, Rochester Theological Semi-' Bring in Your
, helped in the financing of nary. 9
12:30-6:00-—Check annual proofs—Union large corporations. Following pastorates in Cleve.

TUX AND TUX SHIRTS

land and Toledo, Ohio, he came!
in 1936 to the First Baptist;
Church of Richmond, one of,

7:30—Business-Economics Club—Ballroom ; ;
His main example was the

intricate financing of Siegler

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23 j
eer een ting eysteme. aot the largest congregations Mi AND SUITS
12:30-6:00-—Please! Check -your annual proofs— electronic equipment for na-! that denomination in the Mid-
Union tional defense. t "heen wig |
He has been widely honored ; — For —_
The club's next speaker. “Why is the floor painted red?” by the Baptist Church, but the |
when he was elected president FIRST RATE CLEANING

-20.8- , . ;- your annual time in December, will be a
12:30 6:00—Please fellows . Check Vy representative of Dunn and of the Baptist World Alliance. '

oe B
proofs—Union Bradstreet. On the recommen: Seniors Reminded ° Following his election. a cover|
dation of the group's advisor, | ‘and lead story in Time maga-;
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25° ‘Professor Ratliff. the club is zine was devoted to the work
canceling it’s November meet-

| of this colorful churchman.
12:00—Importation of Homecoming — Entertain- ing in favor of the “Y's” labor- w i Dr. Adams is a frequent
ment begins to arrive Management program. speaker on college campuses,

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24 tenatively scheduled for some | top post came to him last year

Jackson Cleaners

3:00—Soccer—North Carolina vs. Davidson—Here The Law School aration vipatringe, parent Opposite the Gulf Station
na vi e Law Schoo Admission Test -|Paration for marriage. parent-
—_ i st required of appli-}i ica and home lite tie book DAVIDSON, N. C.

Canterbury Club cants for admission to a number of leading American law

schools, will be given at more than 100 centers through-

AIR-CONDITIONED To Hear Dialoque out the United States on the mornings of November 9,

The Canterbury Club will February 15. April 19, and August 2, 1958.

meet Sundays night affer Ves. During 1956-57 over 12.000) .
applicarits took this test, and’ are given in a Bulletin of Inifor-

a a a
‘Making Your Marriage Succeed,

F U { | B A T 4 § pers in the. Union Blue Room.
A rather unasual program ist theit scores were sent (0 over mation. _ ... your headquarters for the authentic
planned. The Rev Jolin Den- 100 law schools: The Bifletin (in which an ap:;
ham of Mayodan and the Rev, “candidate. nust make ‘plication for the test is insert-|{ Ivy League campus wear...
INDIVIDUAL HEAT Ronald Lee Woodruff of Dur. separate application for admis-; ed) should be .ebtained four to?
“ r ham wiil present a dialogue sion to each law school of hisisix wecks in advance of. the de:

talk on the theme of “To Eachi¢hoice and should inquire of | sired testing dates from Law
each whether it wishes him to School Admission. Test, Educa-!

ui

- ny

handsomely tailored for that
formal evening

Ivy Style
Tuxedo

Ready for the big dance week-
end? This year go in top “After
Six” campus attire! Our hand-
some Ivy League tuxedo is im-
peccably tailored with natural
shoulders, flaps, pockets and
center vent; has pleatless trous-
ers. In black worsted with black

: His tis Own ¢ God
FAMILY ACCOMODATIONS take the Law School Admission’ tional. Testing Service, 20 Nas:!
Test and when. “sal Strect: Princeton. New |
Ors Since many law schools se- “sey.

RATES: Single $5.00 — Double $7.00
Extras $1.00 Each

ieet ‘their. freshman classes in Completed applications must
the spring preceding thei! cn, be received at ‘least two weeks
,trance, candidates for admis: before the desired testing date
sion to next year’s classes are in order to allow ETS time to
i advised ordinarily to take either complete the necessary testing
the November or the February arrangements for each candi
test. if possible. date.
The Law Schoot Admission -
Test. prepared and administered !
by Educational Testing Service.
features objective questions.
measuring verbal aptitudes and 3] FLU CASES
reasoning ability rather than ac-

Davidson Students Free with Parents

The Oaks Motor Court

344 South Main Street Phone NOrth 3-5693
Mooresville, N. C. “Sue Mery, will yuu stop quired information. As the Asian Flu spreads |

wiggling? How can Daddy. It cannot be “crathmed” for. [| across North Carolina, the

solve your algebra problem if Sample questions and informa: | pavidsen Infirmary reports |,

yow bother him 2ll the time?” tion regarding registration for
and administration of the test

Loma a

Owners and Managers: Bill and Hazel Sprinkle

unofficiel count of 31 stu- |;
dents sick with the flu as of
neon today. |

Live Modern! Here's News... |

US. Patent Award gs TO _ zz Releases se et a

Cen Hause Lisf light-weight. Regulars and longs;

& ° sizes 36-46.
A irac e Dr. Staples released .a list. of 45 00
Sacealiy Homes that will be open °
in the student body after Sun-,

day night vespérs on October: Other “After Six” Tuxedos ...
20 42.50 to 89.50

The following proiessors will
-onduect, open house -from 8:45
to 10:00: Beaty. Bevan, E. E.
Brown, Daggy. Evans, French.
Griffin. Labban, Lilly, Lloyd.
, McCutchan, McLane, Payne,
Polly, Ratliff, Scott. Capt.!
Thompson, Watts, and Whittle.

ev Di

CUMMERBUND AND CUMMERVEST SETS

a r Complete your formal wear with a smart, color-
- New Compensation ful cummerbund or trim cummervest with match-

ing tie. Matching cummerbund set 8.75

-_
‘For Blood Drive Other sets from 7.50 to 15.00.

AM ‘Th 1 Fall Blood Drive .
Fe a YY wilt “he “hel 4 November 56 Men’s Clothing, Ivey’s Street Floor
“yp ae. .

- Charles Woods. chairman of the
drive, announced today that a

“This is it! Pure White Inside | 110° discount in Mid-Winters

; danec tickets will be given by:
Pure White Outside for , i ‘the LFC to the fraternity having
the largest per cent donation. ~
Ra Cleaner, Better = In addition to the eash award: . Ar d E
J Smoking! i a free ROTC grill and PT cut y ’®R OW al XCcelio
aw ] will be given to the individual > . ‘
. ~ ~|

_, |donor, and a plaque awarded to a : ’ e

] . {the winning fraternity. -. ‘ Dr

In order to donate blood, stu- eSs lr S
dents under twenty-one must ,

have a signed release from their .
parents. These releases have al- ... dress shirts that

ready been sent to the parents .
by the ROTC department; how- compliment your -tuxedo
while demanding admir-

eC “«

Get full exciting flavor

H i ever, a reminder by students
plus the ented Miracle Tip to their parents to return the : . ation for themselves . .
releases now will give them ; , made of soft Sanforized

You get with each LeM cigarette
the full exciting flavor of the
Southland’s finest tobaccos.

r
|

mal

PA
| You get the patented Miracle Tip
i
i
i
i

ample time to do so. . fabrics trimly tucked.

Arrow's “New Nassau” Dress Shirt 6.50
Excello Lace-Type Front Dress Shirt 12.95

... pure white inside, pure white
outside as a filter should be for

Your assurance of
the Southland’s finest tobaccos

Every package of LaM’s ever
manufactured has carried thia
promise: “A blend of premium
quality tobaccos including special
aromatic types.”

cleaner; better smoking. The pat- i
ent on the Miracle Tip protects |

BUY 'EM BY THE BOX OR PACK

Crush-Proof Box (Costs no more)

L4&M’s exclusive filtering process.
Handy Packs (King and Reg.)

L&M smokes cleaner, draws
easier, tastes richer.

Live Modern...Smoke EM! fj

Other Items to Complete Your Ensemble

Swank stud and cuff link sets .. __..._. 3.50 te 32.50 (plus tax)
Paris white and black suspenders . Ls
Separate bow tie. 2 2... 0 we 1.50

Ll hima)
ee 4 ody yiits fps

men’s furnishings, Ivey’s street floor

ul lioa.y

©1957 LicceTT & MYcRs TOvACcO Co,
