PAGE THREE

A WORD FROM THE STUDENT HOUSE COMMITTEE:

The Association of College Unions Manual states that the leisure time education
program of College Unions is designed to assist in the building of character
for community service and leadership, This means, simply, that basically we
should be aware of the needs, desires, and feelings of other persons in what~

ever we do,

Students on the House Committee had this thought in mind when

they included the following items in the Union House Rules:

1, Persons using the facilities of the Union are expected to act
as ladies and gentlemen at all times,

2,  Thoughtlessness on the part of some few persons in the past ,
prompts these special reminders:

ae

be

Co

ad.

Se

f.

Be

Feet are to be on the floor rather than on tables or furniture
or dangling about to the point of being disconcerting to others,

Chairs are to be used for sitting rather than tables (especially
in the cafeteria) or counters of any kind.

Snack bar purchases are to be consumed in places other than the
lounge areas. Snack bar cup holders and other such equipment
are to be used only in the dining area.

Cups and other refuse should be put in the waste baskets and not
left on tables (except in the cafeteria) or scattered about,
(There is no janitorial service on the two upper floors after
4:00 pem. each day and noon Saturday through the week end})

Furniture is to be moved from one area to another only by
securing permission in advance from the Union Office, This
includes furniture on the three floors and porches.

Magazines and books are to be replaced immediately after
using. (This system is desirable rather than a checking out
at the Information Desk-- unless by use it is found necessary
to check in and out by name.)

Records, the tape recorder, special lights, and other such
equipment can be used by groups or individuals by making
requests to the office, but such equipment is to be used in
the Union only.

Your being mindful of these standards will allow more people to use the Union
with more pleasure!

Incidentally, someone said that your treating the Union with respect is being
kind to your children, It seems that if any of your children come to
Davidson, t ere is a good chance that they will use this same place-- and
perhaps this same furniture... so be kind to your children!

Cordially,

The House Committee
