PAGE SIX

Cats Meet Citadel Here
Davidson ay Third Victory
Following

With two victories under their belts, the Davidson football squad prepares}.
.to‘meet The Citadel’s Bulldogs tomorrow afternoon in the season’s first game on|”.

1 =»

Y Sportstuft

GEORGE RAMSEY

— Soa

THE DAVIDSONIAN

s
in
1

By BILL HELLIER

=

Over ECC

the Wildcats’ home field.
After an unimpressive

... With the World Series fever gripping the coun-
try, it’s only appropriate that one of the foremost mem-
bers of the Davidson family give us a first hand report

tie) Charleston promise to be one, that the Wildcats met last year,
with Newberry and an upset! of the best teams Davidson will|The Citadel boasts a fast back-

victory over powerful George! face all year.
Washington, the Bulidogs from| Essentially the same team|most part of seasoned sopho-

field and line composed for the

mores and ‘juniors. The speedy

of the scrap for baseball supremacy. So look for a

DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL next week—"“Doc” White cov- | £.

ers the Series!

PRIDE RETURNS

. . . Lost in the commotion of the Series, Rush
Week, soccer season, etc., it has been little noticed
that one of the Wildcats’ “prides” returns to the
campus tomorrow. Pride Ratterree, last year’s line
coach, returns in the capacity of assistant coach to
Eddie Teague at The Citadel.

_. The Carolinas’ top pre-season All-American pro-
spect has been Charlotte's own Roy ‘Hord. now the rock
of fourth-ranked Duke's forward wall.

In case you wandered down to the cross country
area this afternoon. expecting a thrilling duel between
the Wildcats, V.M.L. and W. & L.. and found nothing. a
bit of explanation is in order. The Virginians were cam-

x

~ -
-

wa

i)

WILOCAT SCATBACKS Ralph Setzler (left) and Paul

‘has shown surprising ability

backfield will be led by quart-
erback Bob Schwarze, who is
doing his third year of signal
calling.

TOP LINE

However, Coach Bill Dole wall
be pitting one of the best lines
the has had against the Bull-
|dogs and is counting heavily
fon his young backfield which ham. (Photo by Ed Stevens.)
and co-ordination.

East Carolina College fell be-
fore the onslaught of David-
son’s rushing forward wall, 19-6,
on a muddy, rain-drenched field
ot Greenville last Saturday

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1957

- a

PUTTING THE FOOT to the soccer ball and the 1957 soccer season are four stand-
outs on this year's Wildcat crew. Left to right, John Kuykendall, Ed Irvin, Gordon Neville
and Pete Andrews aim their shots at Ouke’s Blue Devils in this afternoon's opener at Dur-

Soccer Squad, Meets

hight. ‘The slow wet turf dras-

tically cut the evasiveness of

halfbacks Paul Barbee = and ul e i ener 0 a
Ralph Setzler and also the ef-! ia

fective passing of Charlie Ben-

pused by the doctor because of a sickness resembling

on Richardson Field.

Barbee head a potent Davidson infantry unit as the ‘Cats
play host to The Citade! tomorrow afternoon at 2 o'clock

son.
Against a well positioned
defense, the ‘Cats were un-
able to gain much yardage
during the first half, Their

~

—
<—

FOOTBALL GUESSING CONTEST

tone tally during the first
two periods came shortly
following an alert intercep-
tion by Davidson’s center,

The opening of another
school year brings with it the

oa, ; _.. Name Bill Price. Halfback Paul inevitable desire of students the Davidson athletic program as the Wildcat squad
HORD WHITTLE  RATTERREE THOMAS Barbee plunged 6 yards for oe oi rtnan chat of the varsity; travels to Durham where they meet the potent Duke
the T.0. N eer i" ; i :
Asian flu. The meet has been tentatively re-scheduled for Reom P. 0. Box With little more than a min-|{¢2ms- This desire. is fulfilled team this afternoon at 3:00 p.m.
November 6. HOME TEAM VISITING TEAM ute remaining in the half, ECC’s through the interfraternity Optimistic Coach J. W. Me- : seg :
P : : ’ : sports program, under the di-|Cutchen looks for possibly an defensive ability as their
... All things considered, this year’s race for V.M.I Davidson James Speight galloped 49 yards! tion of coach Heath Whit- even split in the won and lost| stronghold fast season. Re-
the interfraternity sports trophy should be much Tc U. Alabama inrough the wats defense for! ie. columns, but is dubious about’ turning  fetterman John
more interesting than those of the past few years, Ba lor Arkansas ° es only score. Coach Whittle believes that,chances with the Dukes who Kuykendall leads the futl-
during which period the Phi Delts and Kappa Sigs N a Dame Arm BENSON.TO-WALL this year's program will be ful-!Jolted the locals 9-0 last year. backs, backed up by Phil
have held a two-way monopoly on the gold. cup. ° y Taking the second half kick: ty as successful, if not more so, TWO games with Prieffer, War- Shive, Jim Taylor, and
Coach Whittle forecasts a very successful year Auburn Kentucky off, the Wildcats marched 70/than that of last year. _ren Wilson, and Washington Peter Powell.
° y , Boston U. West Virginia yards to paydirt with an 11) -A meeting of the sports;and Lee, plus single tilts with pom Warren Wilson
California Nav yard pass from Benson to end|managers of each fraternity: Duke. North Carolina, and North ioe Kwan :
HOOP PRACTICE ; cacy Craig Wall climaxing the drive.| wash ight to Carolina State compose this Koogie” Kwan comes to bol
You basketball fiends can start loosening up, Wofford Citadel 8 g was held on Thursday night to “" Ut. ster the halfback line along
7 ; f h Tom Scott that - , Virginia Clemson The sharp, tackling of Dave decide on several matters of; Year's nine game slate. | with Sam Smith, Pete Andrews
because the word is our toon coach Tom sco at prac- Ri Duk Warden in the defensive back-' importance to the program. The| Experience is the key to im-| Charlie Reed, and Bob Hoag-
tice will open on the fifteenth. ; ice uke field and of John Watwood andi managers -were to decide what provement over last year's team ignd Aiming to give opposing
... Look for the football crowd tomorrow to in- Florida State N. C. State pave Fagg in the line, stopped: sports would be used in the | despite the loss of Freddie But-\aoaties a rough time are Ross
clude some 250 cadets from Mark Clark’s school South Carolina Furman — East Carolina's offensive short! program and the order in which ; ler, goalie. who obtained hotior-| Smyth, Gordon Neville, Frank
for boys in Charleston. Also on hand will be the Tulane Georgia during the final periods. they would come. ‘able mention in the Southern! i511 ga Irvin, George Sutcliffe,
Summerall Guard, a crack drill team who will per- L.S.U Georgia Tech Devidson’s last touch- | Coach Whittle hoped that the Conference ri 1957. John Scott all lettermen. along with Dave
form, without commands, at halftime. Ohio State Ulinois down came in the fourth managers would also vote to/one © aude tinney abe current:'Irvin, Mike Laughlin, and John
’ . ‘ll ‘ lude th tstandi Maryland Wake F t quarter on a blocked punt jgive a separate trophy to the/!y fighting for the job. Keiter.
. bo . er ses Ni onder . IK outs i ing ned. Mien jan N th c oti by guard Charlie James. | fraternity having the most men Defensively the Red and The biggest single aid
rier boys for the Daily Independent of Kannapolis, awara- iam or arolina Westy We:tervelt picked !on varsity teams during the] rack should be as stron this season has been the
. . e . . sue Para . ee 9
ed a free ticket in observance of National Newspaper Michigan Michigan . State up the loose ball and ran jyear. This would eliminate a: ys tact year with a much assistance of professor Mar-
Week, a Cub Scout troop from Kannapolis, and the stu- Northwestern Minnesota into the er.dzone for the fraternity gaining points toward’ improved offense easing rotte, giving more time to
dents of North High School. There should be some pay- _ Pittsburgh Nebraska oo, el tevnlty. spon of up by: having the burden of this year's de. —the. attention of funds
: . | Points by all 40 Teams coach. Dole. commenting on| ter sports ¢ avin fensemen. The Cats showed mentals. Coac utchen
ing customers on hand, too . Total oints ye ee ee me ee he game, saicl that it took a/Men on varsity teams. stated that with two
“WILDCAT DAY” good team to win, considering} He also thought that a tro- | coaches each boy is getting
All entries for THE DAVID-‘teams. Be sure to fill in your the bad weather conditions and| Phy should be given to the fra-, Unless otherwise decided at; more individual attention

... True Wildcats from hither and yon will assemble
on campus tomorrow for the first annual “Wildcat Day”, | test must be placed in the bal:
an event sponsored and planned by Wildcat Club Presi-jlot box at the Union desk not
dent Charlie McCrary (24) and his board of directors. later than 6 p.m., next Friday,

_. . Three closing out-on-a-limb predictions: David-| October 11. ;
son 13, Citadel 7; 1957 Back of the Year: Oklahoma's To indicate your choice for

. . the winner of each game, cir-
Clendon Thomas: Lineman of the Year: Iowa’s AleX! «ie either team of each pair.
Karras... -

HAVE A REAL CIGARETTE-
HAVE A

Sure are lots of fads and
fancy stuff to smoke these
days. Look ‘em over —

then settle down with Camel,
a real cigarette. The exclu-
sive Camel blend of costly
tobaccos has never been
equalled for rich flavor
and easygoing mildness.
Today, more people smoke
Camels than any other
cigarette.

SONIAN Football Guessing Con-j,

guess for the total points scored |the fact that the East Carolina|ternity showing the best sports-
by ail teams, as this will be'.quad was at a peak of spirit.|manship in flickerball, basket-
used to determine the winner, As for tomorrow’s contest with; ball, and softball, the three ma-
in case of a tie. the Citadel, he indicated that|Jor sports in the program.
Each reader is limited to on- the ‘Cats will need to be at
ly one entry per week. _the top of their game and must
The winner of the first week- play with a minimum of mis-
ly contest will be announced in| takes to beat the invading Bull-j--
next week’s DAVIDSONIAN. dogs.

So good and mild...
the finest taste in smoking!

B. 3, Reynolds Tobacco Company, Wiomen-Belew. nG

|

| Your favorite button-down, the ArrowGlen,
is now styled in traditional collegiate fashion.
It’s offered in feather-soft Arrow Cam-
bridge Cloth—a new partner in popularity
to the classic Oxford. Collar buttons down,
| front and center back. Full length box-pleag

Whitlle Ouflines [McCutchan Looks For

LF Sports Year |Split In Nine Contests

By BOBBY PAGE '
Soccer opens its second year as a varsity sport in

the meeting, the  flickerball
competition will begin next

Monday, Oct.

7, opening the

program for the year.

|

and the team can be divid-
ed up so they might empha
size defensive or offensive
maneuvers.

Great catch .. “University Glen Shirt
in exclusive new Arrow Cambridge Cloth

in back. In solids, checks and pencil-stripes.
“Sanforized” labeled. From $5.00. Tie
$2.50,

ARROW—

Shirts and Ties

