Dates Descend On Flu-Free Campus; Kick-Off Homecoming

By BOB LATHAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Now that the flu bugs have stopped reproducing, we
are finally going to have the so-called celebration of the
Feast of the Return.

It is difficult to express the joys and sorrows of
50 continuous hours in a world of the opposite gender.
But certainly the descent of feminine pulchritude on our
fair campus is the chief factor in satisfying the physio-
logical and psychological ‘‘needs”—with the exception of
sleep—of everyone concerned.

ELABORATE ARRANGEMENTS

The weekend is not without its elaborate arrange-
ments. These include the unselfish volunteering of the
pledges to polish cars to perfection (Remember, Big
Brother is watching you!); the attending of Union movie
“Pandora and the Flying Dutchman” in order to stimu-
late the anticipation of a romantic weekend; endless
search for a date, sack, transportation, refreshments,
etc.; the cleaning up and preparation of the dorm room
for the featured attraction; “Operation Sack” master-
minded by the Freshman Council and Mrs. Moore; and
finally the evacuation followed almost immediately by
the mass invasion of skirts from the foreign world.

First the dance (if you happen to make it) with
music. provided by Claude Thornhill (Who's he?) and
orchestra, interrupted briefly by intermission wherein
the belles get a chance to become acquainted with the
other fraternity brothers, fraternity songs, other fraterni-
ty brothers, dance weekend policies, other fraternity
brothers, etc.

After the dance, who knows? The Davidson Gentle-
man and his Lady emerge, grim and determined, from

|

Weather Report

TONIGHT: Cloudy, cool, with
occasional rain. Low, 40 degrees.
t

SATURDAY: Continued cool with
light rain. High of 50, low, 40.

VOL. XLVI

McGavock, Jones Favor

Restriction Of Hell Week

By GERALD WILSON
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

“To see Hell Week completely eliminated is the
faculty’s ultimate desire,” stated Professor W. G. Mc-
Gavock in response to a DAVIDSONIAN reporter’s
question.

This week the DAVIDSONIAN invited Bob Jones,
interfraternity Council President, and Dr. McGavock.
Chairman of the Faculty Committee on Fraternities to |
meet and discuss the fraternity situation.

Continuing the question of what the ultimate de-
sire of the faculty is on the matter of fraternities’ Hell |
Week, Dr. McGavock added that he was not including
the “innocuous sort of activity’ such as learning the
pledge manual or shining shoes.

The main thing the faculty is
concerned with “is the fact so
many freshmen and upper class-
men lose a week out of
school.” The math professor
-emphasized the “iH effects” of
Hell Weck. Q. “Has Hetl Week gotten!

MORE RESTRICTIONS? —_. worse in.the last four or five|

Q. “Will there be any more| years?”
restrictions{t A. “This was always a part!
on Hell Week | of Davidson College” said Dr,|
this year?” 'MeGavock. “About ten or twelve

A. “T he | years ago things got. worse.”
faculty met|The , faculty

eo

don't know Of anybody on the.
council in favor of strengthen,
ing it. Personally, I think it is.
childish.”

HELL WEEK WORSE

i

me

the otherjcontinued on
night and {ignoring _ it.

ie will continue |About four € a

a. the (present) | years ago we ~

McGavock policy an-,decided to | J,
other year.” take — cog- us

Action will be taken if this:nizance of mae
week gets to the point where it! it . . . and =
is invalidating class work.” restrict it.”

Q. “What are the feclings of !He also ana-
the IFC towards Hell Week?” lyzed the fact that this week |

A. Bob Jones answering. (Continued On Page Four)

QUALITY OVER QUANTITY

‘Keep Davidson
Small’- Spencer

Jones

|

Th

F

j
[ *

TYPICAL HOMECOMING SCENE—With plenty of time on
their hands, a Homecoming couple stand in front of one of the

Belk, complete with blanket, perhaps headed for the
distant hills and the rising sun.

But most probably they will join in the caravans
leaving for the numerous parties at Lake Lynn, Moores-
ville, “the old school house,” Salisbury, or elsewhere.
What will it be, 7-up or ginger ale? This is no question
to be regarded lightly as the success of the whole rela-

TN eed

F

AMERICAN ABUNDANCE

le

|
a,

c
le

fo

a as | aap -

Thanksgiving:
Not Just Turkey

By GEORGE RAMSEY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

Thanksgiving.

It is the clasped hands. and nowed heads of thank-,
ful millions, the aroma of roast turkey from resplendent,
dinner tables, the hallowed gathering of a few humble,
countryfolk in the little brown church in the vale.

Maybe you envision a fruitful harvest at the end of
a long autumn, or a weekend at home from college, or
72 “fabulous” hours in New York City.

But Thanksgiving is more than a turkey dinner, a
church service, a weekend away from school. It -sets
aside one day a year for the particular observance of a
Spirit needful of expression 365 days a year.

Thanks-giving. Giving thanks. One pause in this
hustle of the frantic year given to reconsider our mani-

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

ia

a

Ps

“scenic wonders” on campus. The gent is briefing his date
on the history and traditions associated with the edifice.

tionship may hinge on this decision.

The blast of the combo continues to penetrate the,
dark and smoke filled room until some of the brothers,
whose cerebellum (controls coordination and_ balance)
is not quite functioning properly start looking for a
pledge to play chauffeur.

The morning after, Belk, Duke, East, Cannon. Watts.

yr Havidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

_

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1957

Smyth Seeks New

and Little residents will be found engaging in blissful
sleep. Finally, Little Suzy wakes up and the locals get
a quick snack at the boarding house before heading to-
ward the soccer field to witness the lads of dapper John
McCutchan impede the Warren-Wilson cosmopolitans.
(Oh I say’)

iF CARDS RUN OUT —

By’ this time the “conversation cards” of those who
have blind dates may be running out, and our hero may
want to squire his lovely around the campi in an effort
to enlighten her as to our locat customs, traditions,
history, and scenic wonders (for example, the Woodrow
Wilson Memoria! Forest, the Radio Free Davidson broad-
casting center, the ROTC department, the pool room in
the ‘‘stud,” and the ever-present golf course.

In case the individual is really hard up for conver-
sation, he may entertain his date by telling her all about
all the other girls he has dated. This takes up time nicely
and also makes her realize how forunate she is to be
with him.

Afternoon leads into evening and activities begin
anew. (Reread paragraphs 4. 5, 6, and 7.)

Come Sunday, and perhaps a trip to the mountains
to enjoy (Nope, you guessed wrong) the beauties of
autumn.

THE MORNING AFTER

And then the inevitable end and the morning after:
with the rather extended eyeballs; the trip to the P.O.
to find out about being bankrupt; the re-orientation into
education; and the memories.

One last piece of advice: Cop Linker carries a flash-
light.

Students’ Outlook

Freshman and Senior take views
of dance weekend. For their
opinions see page two.

NO. 10

Honor Policy Ideas

*
P

rea

Paintings By Ness
‘Featured at Exhibit

Paintings by Kenneth Ness are
inow being displayed in the Foy-
-er of Chantbers. Mr. Ness i.

Professor of Painting and
‘Graphics at the University 6
North Carolina.

Al present he. ix acting head

of the Art Department at Caro.
ling. This Exhibit was made pus-
sible through the cooperation of
"Mr. Ness and Mr. Edwin Show. 24...
“make,. head of the Art Depart- ene
‘ment. at Salem College, Winston:
Salem. NC.

Claude Thornhill

~

«

SMYTH

Plays For Dance

Claude Thornhill and His Orchestra open the 1957
Homecoming Weekend with a formal dance tonight from
nine until one o'clock in Johnston Gymnasiuim.

From four to five-thirty to-; _
morrow afternoon. Thornhill will! theaters across ‘the country. in-
give a concert in Chambers au.-‘
ditorium. Tumorrow night he in New York and the Shamrock
will play for an informal dance Hotel in Houston. Ie was:
in the gym from eight. until henored by “Look Magazine” in
twelve. 1948 when they chose his or.’

Thornhill seems to be enjoy. ganization as The Band of the!
ing increasing popularity among year.
the college h wast woken One of the distinguishing fea-4
he played for the Shoe ane 2p tures of the Thornhill] Orchestra -
per Dances at Duke University, ;—
Here this weekend his orchestra'is the use of the French horn
will consist of thirteen pieces/in the brass section. Through
plus a vocalist. The usual group this and other devices Thorn-
is made up of five reeds. Six] hilt combines a classical back-
brass, three rhythm, and Thorn-,

_chuding (he Paramount Theater , stitution now stands.

Council Tackles Drink
Rule Interpretation

By LAURENS WALKER
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Student Body President Ross Smyth took the first

‘p Monday night in his long awaited program to re:
vac the honot svsiem at Davidson.

smyth’s. acliont..2a ¢diseussion
mt the drinking cule, and a er
sean petty Unevery on Camptis
tilfect the agenda with potential
dynamite.

In couneetion with the honor
system. Président Smyth asked SUAanee
the Council nigmbers to prepare posal.” :
in writing a statement as to _Rarher in the meeting. Coun-
whether they (1) favored any , cilman Bill Bondurant present.
change in the honor. code. (2) ed a tenative report from .a
had any suggestions for improve COmMMIttce Appointed to clari-
ment, and (3) had any, sugges. fY We drinking rule. The report
tiony to make for discussing the COMM@ined a criteria for judging
problem. Intoxication. Included were

The issue has arisen from the “St#mmering. incoherent speech,
cimpaign speech: of Smyth in, 41d loud speech”
which he proposed: that the ‘At this point Secretary Stuart. .
code should be changed to. al} <¢e™Mingly amused and upset by
[low the Student Council to. sus-|'he criteria. proposed that .the
‘pend a student under special) Council think. until the next
conditions instead of the man- Meeting. about a retutn to the
dalory expulsion as the Con “OF the breath rule” whereby
4 council member who smells
alcohol on the breath of 4 stu.
dent is honor bound to report

him to. the Council.

INCREASING THEFT
President Smyth revealed to
the Council that thievery had
n to an “alarming rate on
campus” during the past weeks,
and “something must be done
about it.”
He suggested that students be
(Continued On Page Four)

‘Apinion of: the stuqlent body,”
“that che might evén ~poll the:
Student body" on the: question:
flu added that if there scemed
(o. be little ‘interest in such a
change he would “make no pro-

STUDENT OPINION
Smyth stated after the imect-
ing that he “wanted. tu get the,

Cops Mobilize For
Weekend Invasion

Davidson students are remind- :
ed that, during this dance week-.
end. whammies will be situated
along the various roads and.

ground with the current trend ‘highways in the Davidson area
of popular music. The maestro and that state and local police

lso composed and arranged Will be patrolling these same
roads and highways.

fold blessings and to render appreciation to the One who
has opened to us this cornucopia of joys that thrill us,
loves that warm us, sorrows that build us.

Perhaps you're thankful for the monogram you've
just earned in football, or the girl you're dating this
weekend, or the letter of acceptance from med school.
Maybe you're just glad to be at Davidson.

The Lord has given to us. Now it’s our turn.

Replacement Wanted
For Baker Program |

Davidson College is actively seeking a new sponsor
for a scholarship program which will replace the void
left by the Baker Scholarship Program.

The Baker Scholarships were
removed on account of their|nounced that the College does
policy which states they must;plan to continue the present
rotate to another school at the|Baker plan during the school |
end of 10 years. year of 1958-59 and that all men’
However, D. Grier Martin an- (Continued On Page Four) |

hill himself at the piano.
Having recorded for Trend.

Columbia. and RCA Victor Rec-, 4

ords, Thornhill has also ap-|‘“Snowfall,” the familiar theme

Lumsden Joins
The college administration ROTC Department

has stated that it in no way' Capt. Lonnie H. Lumsden,
has anything to do with the| Armor. has been assigned to the
» sudden appearance of wham: | Davidson College ROTC Depart-
mies and patrolmen during: ment. and has assumed the posi-
dance weekends, tion of MS LI instructor.
+- The administration does feel,' A native of Tarboro. N. C.,
however, that these precaution-; Capt. Lumsden resided for many
ary measures are very worth| years in Chattanooga, Tennes-
‘while and expresses the hope|see, where he attended the Mc-
that the student body will also | Callie School.
look upon them as such. He was a student at The Cita-
The local police force; too, del for two years prior to en-
has said that the students of Da-|tering the Army in 1943. Dur-
vidson should took upon these|ing World War IT he served in
;measures in the proper light.!the European and the Asiatic-
The law enforcement officers: Pacific theaters.
are not here to “get” as many. From 1946 to 1950, following
Davidson students as possible:: World War II, Capt. Lumsden
_rather. they are here to pre- attended the United States
' | serve the law and thereby safe-, Military Academy at West
{guard human life. j Point.
It is their duty and responsi-- Before coming to Davidson,
' bility to stop anyone who goesihe has served in Europe. the
| beyond the limits of the law. | United States, and the Far East,

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, president of Mary Baldwin
College in Staunton, Virginia and formerly the Dean
of Students at Davidson, was interviewed this week
concerning his new position at Mary Baldwin and his
opinions of certain Davidson problems.

The Mary Baldwin President,
while expressing a desire not to
appear dogmatic, was quite
adamant in his feelings about
the controversial enrollment is-
sue at Davidson. He emphasized
that the present college plant
is built for handling approxi-
mately 850 students and that
sacrifices must be made if this
enrollment increases.

Dr. Spencer saw that the most
immediate of these problems
which would be encountered if
such a program were followed
would be the lack of both suf-
ficient space in Chambers Build-
ing and a means of adequately
expanding present facilities.
“Personally, I would hate to see
us start expanding again,” was

(Continued On Page Four)

peared at various hotels and/of the band.

Weekend

Schedule

SATURDAY

9:00-1:00—Formal Dance.
11:00—Figure.
11:30—Intermission.

SATURDAY

3:00—-Soccer, Warren-Wil
son versus Davidson

4:00—Concert, Chambers
Auditorium

8:00-12:00—Informal
Dance.

10:30—Intermission,

OR. SPENCER THORNHILL
