FRIDAY, OCTOBER ll, 1957 PAGE THREE

THE DAVIDSONIAN

4

BY
GEORGE RAMSEY

sven T

Soon there'll be a “new sound in town.”

Last spring football mentor Bill Dole felt the need
for a factor that was missing in Wildcatland. It seems that
the Davidson spirit just isn’t what it ought to be. In
itself this is not, perhaps, a novel idea.

Coach Dole’s feeling didn’t stop at this, though.
He presented to the ‘‘D” Club, local brotherhood of
brawn, his idea for a victory bell to be installed
on the grounds to signal a Davidson victory in ath-
letic combat.

The members of the “D” Club were all in favor

of such a bell, a tradition on many college campuses
across the country.

Woolwine Paces VMI
Attack Against Cats

By BOBBY PAGE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Over 4,000 spectators departed from Richardson
| Field last Saturday convinced that it was the physical
elements, not mental or intangible ones, that caused the
Davidson eleven to suffer its first defeat of the season,
falling to power laden Citadel, 21-7.

Packing a tremendous ad p

vantage in weight and size. and | '

DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL

‘Doc’ Is Thrilled
By Yanks, Braves

By BILL HELLIER
Davidsonian Sports Writer
“Thrilling!” That was the word Doc White was look-
ing for to describe his trip to the World Series

a. eA es Ae

1-F FLICKERBALL ACTION on Tuesday saw the KA’s
down the ATO’s, 19-18, in a nip-and-tuck battle. Above, the
ATO's Ed Lewis carries the ball, evading the KA’s Locke
Carter. (Photo by Ed Stevens).

| ogy
SPONSOR NEEDED MANAGERS MEET . kde i unleashing a perpetual bull in
j “It was one of the biggest - ous nate:
A sponsor for such a plan was needed, and the) i@ Divents.of wp. lite,” be’ sid, tee a e = ted ne A
re ’ ” ‘ . : : . : TOMAS iu adets managet 0
“Wildeat Club”, a group of alumni with the good of| speuking of the all-expense paid’ wear down the Red and Siesl ’

Davidson at heart, seemed a likely choice to back the) & ay (rip to the first two New: York- forces who struck first but were

move. Dole suggested the. plot to the group, and they : gece games given him by unable to keep the dam from
agreed to pay for the cost and installation of such a e ed oil eee College admini- | hurstir
project n erway our 1é _ ; KEYDETS 2.0.1
When the search for a site began, all sorts of 9 = neh ea had attended red : dis
H i evera vit eague training advantage
problems arose. The stadium seemed a likely spot, By HENRY RAMSEY a aa ‘tik pet aaaga tate 0s
but there was the opinion that, placed here, the ™ silica yoirt Was: tHe: fist: Gime he had soon ‘ nature will
P : ; The  interfrate ' sports | |. } ee ! t i :
bell would be associated solely with football, which program got under way Mon: — — Risen ie ee in actual major league con ee, not be so great
the backers didn’t want. day afternoon with: the first loon i ™ soft peal, ~~ test. The fact that the two ball when the Cats
The gym was mentioned, but who wanted to cut a flickerball games. After three 08> 2ne tennis games an ae wer clubs were so evenly matehed travel to Lex:
A ae : oe oe ‘ - 1: fe tition. four teams matches le} HITE impressed Doc from the very ington tomor-
hole in the roof of the gym? The Union roof, it seems, days of competition, fo me, i | ieah pile tie eee Guten ‘Meek tt “ow (6 take
isn’t strong enough to support the weight of a bell. — ee WH me eee eee iiits take all coven cea: ti ™~ fancy. fleet. of
oe FOOTBALL GUESSING CONTEST ©" % sowiw tis" meteme eG
ALTERNATE PLAN The. KAs, led in scoring by Virginia — Mili-
So an alternate plan of action was adopted. Recent- John West. Shelbourne Wallace BRAVES FAN - institute, who to date have
ly, engineers, provided by alumnus Charlie McCrary, and Sonny Ferguson, downed 4, downed Tampa, 7-0; tied Holy
al . ud : ‘ ~,\the ATOs 1918 and the Pi ame Doc commented that during Cross, 21-21: and romped over
president of the Wildcat Club, installed on the CORNET cos ca: aie ies Toute: est the first game Milwaukee ap-| future Wildeat foe, Richmond
aa i ee ita = Vel. g s 7 s H t I g Ni e 3 ee a
Union roof loudspeakers, which, upon news of a Wild the Phi Gams 25-8 and the SPES| Roam P.O. Box peared’ to be slightly nervous, | 28-6
cat win, will broadcast the strains of the Davidson alma S50 with: Dave Wood, Marvin . Oo sick. achiier a: Sidiee dines ta: ses Siisninet: teh Goan tes
mater, and possibly other appropriate victory themes. A Bentley, and Billy Hopper lead- HOME TEAM VISITING TEAM delighted to. see them steady enemy troops of coach
recording of chimes is being made, which will be used jng the team Mieheme Tennessee“? 2nd win the second contest -» . McKenna Pag »
, ‘ : e. fancy an speedy %
regularly. a : P After rolling over the SPEs Army Pittsburgh Since beth of the games were stepping of halfback Sam _
The fruition of this scheme was made possible ‘with a score of 19-0, the Kappa Auburn Georgia Tech characterized by great pitching Woolwine. Davidson sup- SAM WOOLWINE
only through the co-operation of many persons, not sigs allowed the Betas a single California Southern California *"' ‘vtensive play, Doe was porters will remember
the least of whom were Mr. McCrary, George King, score, beating them 19-6. Don Citadel Richenend able - see a two. of — Woolwine from last year’s continued. to. predic the
McQueen and Bob McClure : major -eagues’ best pitehers — jgceal Homecoming when he ; -hitti
another alumnus, Dr. gee > om gg a pin out as the Kappa Sig Davidson W. Va. Tech worked. He stated that both was the main - in the ee hag sco oa
Scott, and, of course, d of the i ‘— stars. Sigma Chi, sparked by Duke Wake Forest Ford and Burdette seemed ex Keydet machine that sal- Geidhineas: ceuteli he
Dole. Roger Bates and Richard Rie- Florida Mississippi State tremely composed and relaxed yaged a tie in the last min- other ten men, but suc-
~~ | ger, had little trouble with the — wofford Furman = ''" Winning their two respective ute of play, 13-13. cumbed to Thomas who
Meet Pfeiffer Pikas on Monday, beating them) Navy Georgia games The Cats seemed to have the! was more than one-eleventh
Soccermen pens vas on i cn Virginia V.P.I. Schoendienst and Coleman, vag gs —_— —— of the Citadel team: lm 12
able to seore points. a 8 thie: anieina: ‘sed RET ast week when they too tries, the soph racked
| sa . pposing second baseman, * sopramere
By PRENTICE BROWN them before the gun, giving) Ohio State Indiana poh Pong act left fielder, We, the opening kickoff, marched! up 83 yards.
The Davidson soccer team{match are Captain Ross Smyth,| the Sigma Chis a 19-12 victory. | Oklahoma Kansas Covington, inipressed Doe. ty inside the opposition’s 25, lost} Not until the fourth period
i seeki i i win} center forward; Mike Laughlin , ' sse F) nnsiniin’ ‘ ; sia : a
will be seeking its first | Standing. in second place, with| Louisiana Kentucky | Wi alert fielding. The first of eee, serremsered._ three) was Davidson foreed to yield
of the season this afternoon|and Gordon Neville, forwards; : | ete Morth Careline. | ‘heir alert fielding. The first {| yards in three plays, took the| another score when Thomas was
when they battle Pfeiffer on|John Kuykendall and Phil|!-1 records, are the Pi Kapps,) Marylan g a series of sparkling catches| punt, and marched to paydirt.|reinserted in. the lineup, He
the home field. Shive, fullbacks; Sam Smith and|the Independents, the ATOs,, Miami NW. C. State by ‘Covington gave Doe a good| Quarterback Charlie Benson on} scored on a one yard plunge
Monday afternoon the Gen- Pete Andrews, halfbacks; and) and te on on cms Oo S$ a thod — we | iden as to bow important it is third down sent speedster Paul Tuza added a point and Dick
erals from Washington and Lee one gg lg get over the Phi pont n Me ist Rice to have a good ball-hawk in the | Barbee around end from one/Guererri the other PAT.
: he Wildcat lair for the Hopkins, Sam Clarke and ah _| Arkansas Texas i |yard out, catching the Cadets, Every bit as proud as if
invade the : eat la George Sutcliffe. 19-0. After the Independents | Vint William and Mary outfield lin a nine man line looking for! they hed beaten Oklehome,
‘Cats’ second home game. ; en d d the Eta Alphas 13-0, on| ; " ‘ i ‘ .
Captain Ross Smyth said all) Gowne < : the line plunge. Dave Fagg con-| Coach Bill Dole comment-
Last week > — of the players were very| Monday, eo to the! Total Points by all 40 Teams BIG THINGS veited: te: put WE lntele: cutl ak on dae wae
a tough match to Duke, +1.) jieased with the way the team) Pikas on Tuesday. front 7-0 f i
z i lie hing hy : Vans rom the spectators point-
Actually the contest was much! showed up last week. The team| 4; the meeting. of sports, All entries for THE DAVID-. The winner of the first. [elief pitching by the Yan- NOT ENOUGH of-view and also from a
poco pin Bh a ae looks Wetter now. ten i did’ managers on Thursday night, it SONIAN Football Guessing Way — wae: Sane Nees’ Bed Grim snd the Draves It was not far enough and> coaches view, which saw as
eo gag his yee jat the end of the season last)... definitely decided to give Contest must be placed in the| Carrington, wio correctly | Don McMahon and home runs was short lived. On the ensuing) mueh as one could imagine ~
oe pi geagh an" 88 year. Friday was definitely the a separate trophy to the fra- ballot box at the College Union| picked 16 of 20 games, 1~ =~ by = Johnny Logan and Hank march downfield, the vietor's in desire and effort.
2 a | best match the squad has played ternity having the largest num- desk not later than 6 p.m., next cluding one tie. Carrington, Bauer were some of the other Bobby Schwarze completed a Citadel's Pride (Rat)erree's
and captured the rough = in its short history, Smyth said. | or of men participating on Friday, October 18. and all other weekly win- big things Doe remembered 41 yard aerial to Paul Maecguire tobaceo chewing, blood-stained
png — ——— The Wildeats have seven varsity teams, rather than let To indicate your choice for| ners, will receive $2.50 to- ‘ ' on the Cat seven. Schwarze then appearance and technique has
of the Wildeats a matches remaining and already this cout towards the inter- the winner of each game, i ward the purchase of any However, the biggest thing in| threw a running pass to half- definitely: left its mark on the
Standing out for the Cats are pointing to their match fraternity trophy for sports cle either team of eaeh pair Fo) merchandise at Wilson- Doe White’s mind was that each back Joe Chefalo and Connie Citadel squad. The husky biue
were Freshman goalie Claude with Carolina on October 25th. : ; indicate a tie, cirele both Wright's clothing store. World Series game is a novelty) /U#@ converted. In the second and white line got tough ever
Finney. along with Koogie’ They should finish the sea- The schedule for the remain-'{eams. Be sure to fill in your : ‘ol ,, quarter, Thomas began to roll time the Cats began a sustain
Kwon, Frosh Dave Irvin, and) son with a very impressive rec- ing sports in the interfraternity guess for total points at the} Pach reader ty limited to one in itselt ond. that he could! og cored for the men in gray march and cut it short as was
Frank Holt, who  seored the) ord if they continue improving program was also set. After bottom of the ballot entry per week never become tired of watching) with a three yard plunge evident in the facet that Da
goal, and playing the calibre of balljflickerball is over, the wrest | | | 5 cam qm mm mm eee eee ee me_ them. In the next half, Thomas vidsen punted only twits
Others expected to start or they played against the Blue jing and swimming meets will
see action in this afternoon's! Devils be- held. Then the basketball

HERRINGBONE

Atter-Six Tuxedos
Rentals Also

OXFORD

GANT OF NEW HAVEN

The natural preference
for Oxford is
further enhanced by

1a second apart, grabbed four

ithe Wildcats,

|| placed in the first ten finishers.

program will take over and run
into the early. spring. Track,
handball, and table tennis will
follow basketball in that order

TENNIS MEETING

Coach Richard McKee
has announced that all boys
interested in trying out for |
the varsity tennis team are
requested to attend a meet-
ing on Monday, Oct. 14, at
3 pm., in the balcony of
Johnston Gymnasium. Plans
will be discussed for fall
workouts and a tennis
tournament to determine
varsity players.

Harriers Inaugurate =

Season Yesterday

Wake Ferest spoiled David-
son's 1957 cross country debut
Thursday as they drubbed the
"Cats, 19-36. The Deacons, led
by Medlin and Jordon, who
finished 1-2, only two-tenths of

of the first five places.

Capt. Angus McBryde paced
and Jim Alex-
ander, Graham George, Monty
Van Ness, and Al MacKay all

Ba

LOCATION SHOTS BY
> PERMISSION OF THE ROYAL
MINISTRY OF HAUNTED
NATIONAL EDIFICES,
CASTLES, AND ESTATES

NONSENSE, 1)

NQ SUCH THIN

TT HAVE A FEEL
SOME BODY'S

LOOKING AT US !

UTTERLY CHARMING
FELLOW - INTELLIGENT,
DISCRIMINATING —
MUST BE THE OWNER

PLACE!

AMERICAS BEST-SELUNG

BEST- TASTING
FILTER CIGARETTE

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.

, Next action for the Davidson
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” i harriers will be against» strong : — ee
Main dson Duke outfit, in a meet sched-
*. a) | uled for next Thursday, Oct. 17,
at Durham. os

