MORGAN CITES
ELECTIONS POSITION
(Page Two)

VOL. XLV

HINGES ON COUNCIL

Elections Board Vetoes

Proposed Polling Move

Tom Morgan, ATO representative, was elected Chairman
of the Elections Board at its initial meeting Monday night.
John Garden, of Phi Gamma Delta, was chosen secretary.

Two precedent-shattering meas-
ures were presented by
Chairman Morgan at the Monday
meeting. The simultaneous elec-
tion of student body officers and
all editorial offices was approved
by the Board, as well as by the
Student Council, which must ap-
prove all actions of the Elections
Board.

The second proposal, to change
the polling place from Chambers
Building to the lobby of the Col-
lege Union, met with some opposi-
tion.

The Elections Board unanimous-
ly rejected this proposal at both
its Monday and Wednesday meet-
ings.

This second rejection will re-
quire a second vote by the Stu-
dent Council on their previously
proposed change of polling places,
which was passed in the Monday
Student Council meeting. This
vote, which will take place in
the next few days, will decide the

would be controlled by a small
faction. Also, evidence that dou-
ble balloting has taken place in
the past was not substantiated.

The Board unanimously voted
to have elections begin Friday,
March 1, with Student Body of-
ficers being nominated. Voting on
these offices is to take place Tues-
day and Thursday of the following
week, at the regular chapel pe-,
riods.

Speeches by candidates for Stu-

(Continued On Page Four)

—eee

15 Duke Trustees
To Visit D.C. Campus

Davidson College will be host
to 15 trustees of the Duke Endow-
ment Board this Tuesday after.
noon.

The trustees, headed by Mr.
Norman Cocke, president of. the

oh

fate of the proposal. board of trustees for Puke Uni-
The debate for the change in|versity, are in this area for their
the Elections Board meeting Wed-, annual meeting. In response to
nesday, was led by Chairman Mor-|an invitation extended by the Col-
gan. He upheld his proposal as/lege, the group has agreed to
follows: only seriously thinking|come to Davidson for lunch and
and interested students would;a brief tour of the campus, after
vote, and double balloting would which they will. return to Char-
be prevented. |rotte to continue their business
Leading the argument against | meeting.
the proposed move of polling! The Duke endowment, which
places, members Duke, Martin.| affords aid to colleges and univer-
and Shaw pointed out that stu-j/sities throughout the nation, has
dents would not take time to. vote|for many years been a major con-
in the Union, and subsequently|tributor to the financial program
elections would not be accesible|of Davidson, having given over
to the entire student body, but{ four million dollars since 1924.

CUNNINGHAM’S STATEMENT
Expresses Regret

Dr. John R. Cunningham issued the following statement

to the Davidsonian late Wednesday afternoon.
“There is no sense of pleasure in the conclusion J] have

reached. Several months of careful consideration preceded
the step.

“In the period of time I have been at Davidson, which
now extends over a 16-year period, I have grown increasingly
devoted to all that is Davidson. This includes the students,
faculty, trustees, staff, parents, alumni, and friends.

“I am exceedingly grateful to the Trustees for their
desire to present other alternatives which would allow me
to retain my position. Honored as 1 am it is my opinion that
the increasingly complex position of a College President can
not require less than the full abilities and time of a man.

“Asking for this is a very difficult undertaking, but I
feel that it is to the best interests of the school and to my-
self to leave at this time. Not only do I feel this new endeavor
to be a challenge and a great opportunity, but it seems to me
that Davidson is in a position to install a younger person with
& different outlook.

“Having my home in Charlotte will guarantee my con-
tinued, active interest in Davidson and my work with the
Foundation will benefit Davidson, along with the seminaries

and boards.”

i _ on ——

—

Statement gripped tightly under arm, Dr. Cunningham greets Joseph Hunter,

a new face on the Board, as Trustees find their seats.

ye HBautwsontan

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1957 a

CATS PLAY FOR
TOURNEY BERTH
(Page Three)

No. 17

Trustees’ Committee Selectec

ham bows out, Davidson boas! boasts

Juniors May Choose
Old or New Class Ring

A committee of students, head-
ed by Mr. C. Shaw Smith, has
seen the need for a new design
for class rings. The present ring
has been in the same form for ap-
proximately twenty years.

The idea has come down |.
through various faculty members.
students, and faculty officers. The
artist's conception is on display
at the College Union desk for
the students to compare with the
present one.

Both the old ring and the new

‘ring will be on sale this year.

Since the new rings go on sale
today, they will have to be ordered
from the drawing because of the
delay of the sample which will
not be here until April 1.
Students who. are in doubt
about their decision can wait for
the sample ring before making
their choice although there is on-
ly a slight possibility that the
tings will arrive before gradua-
tion. If the orders are delayed,
they would have to be sent by
mail the first part of the summer.
The committee would like to
make it clear that the change is
not a dogmatic one, but one which

the students can accept or rejects!

17 Years of Unparalleled Progress

Dr. Cunningham is shown here surrounded by buildings erected or thoroughly renovated during his administration. As Cunning-

one of the finest college physical plants in the nation.

Students, Alumni

Services Of Cunningham

Upon the resignation of Dr. J. ,;deep regret and the feeling that
R. ; Cunningham leaders of Alum- | Davidson has suffered heavy loss.
.. Trustees, and Student organi- At the same time I recognize the

‘position of service that he will
zations expressed feelings of sur-; feel with the Presbyterian Foun.
prise, regret, and loss.” dation. If he is to leave, I rejoice

All have given evidence ofjthat he will be working for the
gratitude and pride of having! Church.
been associated with him during! Or. Grier Martin; Treasurer of

his presideney of Davidson Col-| Davidson College:
lege. Davidson College has many rea-

Sampling of the statements by
these leaders and executives are Delta Phi Alpha

given here: Elects New Officers

The Reverend Alfred G. Taylor,| Delta Phi Alpha, honorary Ger-
Vice-President of Alumni Associ-;man fraternity, met Thursday
ation: morning, February 14, to elect

As one present when Doctor|new officers and new members.
Cunningham assumed his duties! The new officers elected by Epsi-
in 1941, I felt confident that he!lon Chapter were: President, Phil
was the man for the hour. Every! Kukura; vice- -president, Bob Hay-
year has proved this more and | wood; and secretary, Henderson
more. I’m sure all the alumni feel | Rourk.
that Dr. Cunningham's farsighted, Dr. Howard French, after a
program will contmue to guide us: year's absence in Germany, con-
for years.  tinues to serve as faculty adviser

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, Pres-| for the group.
ident of the Board of Trustees: ' New members were elected and.

I receive his resignation with bids-were sent out.

To Find Presidential Successor

Six To Hold First Session
in Richmond On March 1

Six men face the responsibility of finding a new Presi-

dent for Davidson College.

Acting in the wake of Dr.

John R. Cunningham's shock-

ingly unexpected Wednesday morning resignation, the Board
of Trustees Wednesday afternoon elected a nominating com-
mittee composed of Mr. D. R. LaFar. of Gastonia, Dr. James A.
Jones of Richmond, Virginia, Mr. Spencer Love of Greensboro,
‘Dr. James P. Hendricks of Durham, and Reverend Fred
Stair of Hickory. Dr. J. McDowell Richards, chairman of the
Board, will serve as ex-officio member.

Dr. Cunningham, since 1940 the
President of the College, had kept
his resignation a closely guarded

chosen in May. an acting Presi--
dent will be named by the Board.

secret. Only close friends and the
members of the Executive Com-
mittee of the Board of Trustees
knew. prior to Wednesday, of his
plans to step down as chief execu-

iutive of the College and accept
a position as Director of the Pres-

_byterain Foundation of Char-

!Jotte,

, in resigning. Dr. Cunningham
stated, “Now as I enter my
seventeenth year as president, 1
consider that for the good of Da-
vidson College. and the work into
which I go, that I should take
this step .. . Davidson is on even
keel "and finally, “I feel
a sense of providential guidance
in this whole consideration.”

The Nominating Committee
elected by the. Board will hold
its initial meeting in Richmond
on March 1. At that time a chair-

man will be selected.

Committee member and Board
Chairman J. McDowell Richards
sons to be grateful to the man stated. after announcing the mem-
who resigned this week from the bership of the committee, that he
presidency after more than six-(“hoped a successor to Dr. Cun-
teen years of service marked by/ningham could be chosen at the
many great achievements. Among! May meeting of the Trustees.” He
them is the growth under his lead- added however, “I doubt seriously
ership of the Endowment and|whether it will

Plant funds of the College from|locate in the short time before
five and one-half million dollars}then a man able to carry on the

| Praise

in 1941 to fourteen million in Presidency in the tradition of Dr.

1957. ;Cunningham.” If a successor is not
Dr. S. R. Spencer, Dean of Stu.

dents:

LeGelfe Blythe Leads
Discussion On Wolfe

LeGette Blythe, noted author

Especially from the standpoint
of a Dean of Students, Dr. Cun-
ningham has been the ideal col-

lege president. His interest in stu- | .
dents, both individual d ‘and personal .friend of Thomas
en oth as individuals and a8! woite, will lead an informal dis-

a student body, his strong stand oyssion group Wednesday night at
for principle combined with flexi-|8:00 p.m., in the Ballroom of the
j bility towards student. problems,| College Union concerning Wolfe.
and his active promotion of har-' Mr. Blythe will bring letters
mony in student-faculty relations|from Wolfe which he has in his
have kept my job from being as possession to show to interested

be possible to,

difficult. one. I can reconcile my-
self to his going only because his
| new position seems almost perfect
for him at this time.

| (Continued On Page Four)

Richards and Trustees on Hand For Cunningham Bombshell

— —- ~_

— heli.

the Board of Trustees,

| "3 1d

Cunningham has a last-minute word with J. McDowell Richards, President of

students. This is another in the
series of informal literary discus-
sions sponsored by the Bookshelf

| Coffee will be served.

Richards calls the meeting to order.

Dr. Cunningham made his an-
nouncement to the Trustees fol-
lowing his regular report as Pres-
ident. Most of the group were
taken entirely by surprise. Many
rose to urge him to stay, but he
remained resolute in his convie-
tion that his duty now lay else-
where. Finally, and with re-
luctance, the Board accepted his
resignation.

Fraternities List
Hell Week Projects

Davidson fraternities, in plan- -
ning activities for Greek Week,
have scheduled many constructive
projects for their pledges to un-
dertake.

Several of these take the form.
of community service. Alpha Tau
Omega is centering its Help Week
activities around two afternoons’
work assisting the Director of the
Barium Springs Orphanage.

Improvement of the playground
of the Davidson Methodist Church
will occupy the attention of Pi
Kappa Phi, whereas Kappa Sigma
is undertaking a civic project for
the YMCA.

Phi Delta Theta and Beta Theta
Pi plan to spend a portion of their
Hell Week cleaning the premises
of Erwin Lodge. -

Other fraternities have sched-
uled projects at their respective
fraternity and boarding houses.

Kappa Alpha and Sigma Chi
are concentrating their work in
maintenance and repair,

Pi Kappa Alpha will assist their
faculty advisor in the beautifica-
tion of his grounds in addition to
activities improving the fraterni-
ty house. Phi Gamma Delta plans
to refurnish and. clean their
houses.

Campus Club pledges will re.
decorate their house, while Sig-
ma Phi Epsilon and Sigma Alpha

Committee of the College Union.|Epsilon will do yard and floor

work as well as painting.

ancl

Cunningham waits for the floor to make his dramatic announcement as
