PAGE FOUR
WATTS RE-ELECTED

Faculty

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thompson Returns

Members Attend |!s Speak in Vespers

Meetings During Holidays

Over the Christmas holidays sev-
eral members of the Davidson Col-
lege faculty attended meetings of
learned societies, and two of them
had prominent parts in their or-
ganizations.

Dr. J. A. McGeachy, Jr., was
present at the meetings of the
American Historical Association in
St. Louis, Missouri, on .December
27-29. Dr. George Abernethy was
in Philadelphia on the same dates
at the meeting of the American

Florida: in French, Charles Brock
man, King College; Francis Ghigo,
Hampden-Sydney College; J. W.
Hassell, Univ. of South Carolina;
Kenneth Wilson-Jones U.N.C.;

Subscription Manager of the of-
ficial publication, The French Re
view. The meetings closed with a
reception at the French Embassy,,

given by the new French ambassa°| e -N
dor, M. Herve Alphand. 'Hugh Johnston, Atlantic Christian

Many Davidson graduates at- College; in Spanish, John Moore,
tended the Washington meetings..College of William and Mary;
Among those seen were: in Eng: William McKnight, U.N.C.; and
lish, Gordon Wood, U. of Chat- Walter Heilman, Wake Forest Col-
tanooga; Richard Vowles, Univ. of ' lege.

Philosophical Society.

W. Taliaferro Thompson,
moderator of the General Assem-
bly of the Presbyterian Church in
the United States, will speak in
Vespers this Sunday evening.

As holder of the highest elective
fice in the denomination, Dr.
fhompson has had a long career of
service in the Presbyterian Church.
A native of Charleston, S. C., he
graduated from Davidson in the
Class of 1905 and then did gradu-
ate work at Union Thelogical Semi-
nary in Richmond.

For 36 years Thompson was Pro-
fessor of Religious Education at
Union Seminary, and according to
Dr. George Staples, he has proba-
bly taught more Presbyterian mini-!

NATIVE OF LATVIA

European Educator Talks

In Chapel on ‘Atomic Age’

Dr. Karlis Leyasmeyer, Euro-

pean educator, author, and editor,|a citizen of the United States.
will be the chapel speaker on Tues-| Since that time he has lectured on|counseleor for the Billy Graham
January 20. His|present world problems through-| Evangelistic Association will speak
and show the film “Eastward to
Asia” Monday evening at 8 p.m.

day morning,
topic will be: “The Fateful Prob-
lems of the Atomic Age.”

Dr. Leyasmeyer speaks from a
broad background of personal ex-
perience. Born in Latvia in 1906,
he lived in Russia, seeing the
Communist revolution of 1917 and
| subsequent events. He returned
to Latvia and completed his edu-
jeation there and in England.
Since 1930 Dr. Leyasmeyer has

Dr. William P. Cumming and Dr.
George B. Watts attended the ses-
sions of the Modern Language
Association of America in Washing-
ton, D. C., on December 26-29. Dr.
Cumming is a member of the Exec-
utive Council of this Association
and Dr. Watts is a member of the
Program Committee.

Dr. Watts also took part on
December 26-30. in the annual
meeting of the American Associa-
tion of Teachers of French of which
he is the National Secretary-Treas-
urer. Reading his annual report at
the business session of the meet-
ing on December 30, he reported
that the Association had on that
date nearly 5.300 members.

At the same meeting Dr. Watts
was re-elected for his sixth consec-
utive three-year term as Secretary- |
Treasurer of the Association and

Old Home Yields —
To Progress |

In order to serve as a much-
needed campus improvement, work
has begun on the razing of the old
house behind Duke dorm.

The house, previously occupied
by Mr. and Mrs. Mayhew, em-
ployees of the college. had reached
such a deplorable state that a
considerable amount of money
would have been spent to renovate
it. For some time the administra-
tion had planned to remove the

Winter Services Program
Features Dr. John Whale

Dr. John S. Whale, prominent British theclogian, will be one
of the four speakers on campus February 10-13 to lead the

Winter Services.

Dr. Whale’s career has been long
and varied, having devoted time
to the parish ministry, teaching.
writing, and serving as guest lec-
turer at theological seminaries in
his native tand and the United
States.

While at Davidson Dr. Whale
will deliver two of the seven ma-
jor addresses which are scheduled

attempts to give an exposition of
the Biblical basis for Christian be-
liefs. ‘In addition, it deals with
‘some of the traditional criticisms
‘which the rational theist  en-
counters, both on the campus and
off. :

Copies of Christian Doctrine and
other books by Dr. Whale will be
on display in the Union during the
| Winter Services for the benefit of

sters than any other professor in been editor of educational and
the history of the denomination, | scientific magazines, taught phi-
He was also editor of the “Union losophy in higher institutions, and
Seminary Review” from 1922 to lectured to university students and
1932. ,the general public in both Europe

A member of the Board of Trust. 294 America.
‘es of Davidson College, Dr. Thomp- | , .
son has sent four sons to David. @nce Communist and Nazi perse-
son. He is one-of the few men to cution. In 1941 he was arrested

t .
be twice honored by Davidson Col by the Communists, tortured. sen-
lege with honorary degrees —D.D tenced to die, and put before their
in 1919, Litt. D., in 1937. He also|fiting squad, but miraculously
holds the honorary degree of escaped death. Later he survived

Doctor of Divinity from Washing- similar Nazi ordeals.

ton and Lee University.
Fellowships Available

‘He knows by personal experi-

DR. KARLIS LEYASMEYER
Persecuted by Nazis and Soviets

son has been a member of the
University Christian Mission, and

for the three-and-a-half day perio
On Monday evening. February 1

1 _students who wish to purchase a
* copy.

” New Frat Court Plans
Progressing Rapidly

Preliminary plans for the new
fraternity court are being pushed
forward as rapidly as possible, D.
Grier Martin, College treasurer,
told the Davidsonian this week.
The proposed court is to provide
combination lodge and boarding
‘houses for the college's eleven
_ social fraternities.

' Mr. Martin said that architects
| are presently drawing up a plan

of the proposed court for presenta-
_ tion to the Fraternity Committee

» ae
[

OR. JOHN S. WHALE ‘pointed out the many problems in-

~ within the next few weeks. He.

he has served on the staff of
Camp Carolina, a summer camp
for boys. He also served pastorates
in North Carolina, Tennessee, and
Alabama.

Through the years, Dr. Thomp-
son has counseled a great number
of people, many of them with fam-
ily problems. Last year his book
“An Adventure in Love” was pub-
lished, dealing with some of the
problems in love and marriage,

Phone Commiftee
Named by Lafar

President Dan LaFar initiated
business at the first meeting of
the Student Council after Christ-
mas holidays Monday night by ap-

For Study in France

In 1949 Dr. Leyasmeyer became out the United States and Canada.
Ralph Mitchell, ‘spiritual

Dr.

in the College Union.

Dr. Mitchell is a native of Scot-
land and served Baptist pastorates

in the British Isles before coming
to the United States to join Dr.
Graham in 1947.

Mitchel! will meet with the
Quadwranglers for a coffee hour
Monday at 4 p.m., when he will
also show the film.

Dr. Bern Dibner will be the
chapel sneaker next Tuesday morn-
ing. Dr. Dibner, an engineer by
profession, has spent much of his
life urging scientifically inclined
young men to develop all phases
of their personalities and to be
“whole baked.” .

Following chapel there will be
a coffee hour in the dall Room of
the-College Union, when students
will have an opportunity to meet
Dr: Dibner. ‘

Hall Donates $600 .
To ROTC Regiment

Opportunities to study or teach in France during 1957-58| During Mr. R. D. Hall's visit to

are available to American graduate students, it was announced
by Kenneth Holland, President of the Institute of International
Education, 1 East 67th Street. New York City.

The French Government: is offer- must have the M.D. degree. Fel-
ing -approximately thirty univer-/lows study in French universities
sity fellowshins through the Minis-!and other state institutions. These
try of Foreign Affairs and forty! awards provide tuition and a mod-
teaching assistantships through the|est maintenance.

| !anguage teaching experience and|travel grants is limited, appli-
‘an Opportunity to become ae-/cants should be prepared to puy
quainted with France. their own travel.

Nominations of candidates for teprPit mt. rn.”
fellowships and assistantships will 55 [. d D
be made by a joint committee of ea er rowns
French and American educators

house. he will lecture on, “The Nature
The Mayhews are moving into 4 of God: Can God be both Cosmic
new home. Before them the old and Personal?” On Tuesday morn-
house was occupied by other em-! ing, February 12, in chapel he will
ployees of the college. These in-jdiscuss the subject, “The Nature
cluded Capt. Seifert of the ROTC! of History: Does God Intervene in
Department and Mrs. N. T. Smith,| Human Events?”

former Supervisor of Dormitories.| pr: whale is the author of six

The vacant space will be used) pooks, all dealing with Christianity

volved in obtaining a design ade-
quately meeting the needs of the
fraternities and yet being financial-
ly practical.

AB Degree

(Continued From Front Page)
possible revisions:

pointing ‘a committee to investigate
certain questions raised over the
propésed telephone to be installed
in the College Union.

The committee, consisting of

ouncil. members Bill Bondurant,
Ross Smyth, and John Kuykendall,
will make an effort to determine

primarily to widen the road behind! 44 the church. the most recent’ ) Eliminate the classical lang-
the house thus ensuring safe traf-| 97 which is The Protestant Tradi:: U48¢ requirement for the A.B.
fic. Possibly it may be used fF ition 1955. Perhaps his best known | diploma. and give this diploma to
parking space. book, however, is Christian Doc- the students who have completed

—. trine, eight lectures which were! Work in the humanities and the so-
8
Union Presents Movie

how many times the phone will be

| working in cooperation with the
French Cultural Services and the
Institute of International Educa-
tion,

Closing date for application is
February 1, 1957.

The French Government awards
are open to men and women pre-
ferably under 30 years of age. Ap-

used daily in order to set a fixed! nticants must be U. S. citizens.
cost for calls. The phone, which is ‘Other eligibility requirements are:
slated to be installed on April 1, 4 bachelors degree from an Ameri-
will be on a direct line to Char-: oop college or university by the
lotte. |time of departure; good academic

Vernon Hunter was appointed record; good knowledge of French;

Ministry of Education. The fellow. Applicants for French Govern-

(Continued From Front Page)
worked diligently for over a week
in search for the two. Funeral
services were held Monday in
Roanoke Rapids.

Loy, after graduating from Da-
vidson in 1955, entered Union
Theological Seminary in New York
where he was currently in his

the Cadet Corps Tuesday, January
8, the R.O.T.C. Department an-
nounced that this Belmont, N. C.,
textile executive had granted
$600 to the Regiment for purchas-
ing specially designed shoulder
loop insignias to be worn by all
members of the unit.

Hall, the first student commander
of Davidson’s R.O.T.C., was in
charge of the Battalion in 1918.
1919. Last year he donated $400
to provide the Davidson shoulder
patch for the cadets’ uniforms.

During drill on Tuesday. Hall
toured the regimental headquart-
ers and then inspected the honor
platoon. Accompanied by Lt. Col.
Sapp and Cadet Col. Snider, Hall
watched the honor platoon execute
special marching procedures ond
the regiment conduct its regular
drill.

|

FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1957

Death Ends Stough’s
Service fo Post Office

Funeral services for Samuel
Tertius (Tush) Stough, Davidson
postmaster for the past 24 years,
were held Wednesday at the Mt.
Zion Church in Cornelius.

Mr. Stough died in his home
Monday night. He was born July 4,
1891, son of the late Richard John-
,Ston Stough and Mrs. Emily Fran-
jees Elizabeth Thompson Stough.

He was a veteran of World War
1, having served with the 113th
Field Artillery. He was a member
of the Davidson Lions Club, the
North Mecklenburg Post No. 86
of the American Legion, the
Voiture Locale No. 793 of Forty
| and Eight, the National Associa-
tion of Postmasters of the United
States, and the Mt. Zion Methodist
Church in Cornelius.

Survivors are his wife, Mrs.
Augusta Sapp Stough; a son,
Samuel T. Stough, Jr., of Fayette-
ville; a daughter, Miss Mary Fet-
ter Stough of Davidson; three
brothers, M. A. Stough of Char-
lotte, Frank C. Stough, and Peter
Stough of Cornelius; three sisters,
Mrs. R. S. DuRant of Southern
| Pines. Mrs.:B. J. Willeford of Kan-
napolis, and Miss Feriba Stough of
Cornelius.

Military graveside honors at the
funeral were conducted by the Da.
vidson College ROTC.

Students Requested
To Take Polio Shots

All students who began taking
voluntary polio shots this fall are
requested by the Infirmary to re-
port immediately for a second in-
stallment.

Andrews Discusses

(Continued From Front Page)
Andrews has become president of
the American Fidelity and Casualty
Insurance Co., of Richmond. Al-
though a candidate for the presi-
dency on the Constitution Party
ticket, (known throughout the
South as the State’s Rights Party)
Mr. Andrews was previously a
Democratic supporter of Eisenhow-
er.

Larry Trotti, program chairman
of the Business-Economics Associa-
tion, invited the student body to
|take advantage of this worthwhile
| program.

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

second year. He was an outstand-

ing student leader on the David-
son campus and his many activi-
ties earned him membership in
Omicron Delta Kappa and a place
in “Who's Who Among American
Students in Colleges and Univer-
sities.”

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

delivered to students at the Uni- cial sciences. The B.S. diploma
"The Hasty Heart”

versity of Cambridge in 1940. + would be given for work in math-
Richard Todd, Ronald Reagan,

and Patricia Neal appear in the

Because the chapter titles of!
Christian Doctrine so closely paral-

lel the theme of the Winter Ser-
vices,

three faculty discussion

matics, the physical and biological
sciences, and business administra-
tion.

2) Eliminate the classical lang-
uage requirement for the A. B. and

chairman of a committee to investi-! correct usage of English; good
gate the possibility of revising the moral character, personality and
Student. Body Constitution. Other adaptability; and good health. As-
members of this committee are sistants must be unmarried, and
George Scott. Carl Cooper, and. unmarried candidates are preferred

Loy was extremely active in pub-
lications activities, working on the
staff of the Davidsonian, the Wild-
cat Handbook, and serving as

1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

groups have been organized under

put in its place a course in the hu-
manities or philosophy.

movie version of the play “The : ,
Hasty Heart" by John Patrick, the leadership of a committee!
which will be shown tomorrow |"eaded by Dr. W. G. McGavock to 5) Eliminate entirely the B.S.
night at 7:00 in the Union Ball-|Study Dr. Whale’s book. degree, giving to all graduates of
room. Admission is 25c. Each faculty group devotes one! jiperal arts Davidson College an
Todd, in his first American film,| meeting to each of the eight chap-' 4 B degree.
portrays a Scotsman who is wound- ters, which deal with such perti-
ed while fighting in Burma dur-|nent subjects as the Christian doc-
ing the Second World War. The/|trine of Creation, History. the
plot revolves around the Scot’s|Atonement, the Church, and the
fight for his lite and for happiness| Last Things.
with his nurse in the Army hos-| Christian Doctrine is a book of
pital where he is recuperating.|theology for the layman. The book
This role as Lackie, the Scot, won
Todd an Academy Award nomina-

P.M—Second Hour Classes

tion.
“John Patrick, author of “The Davidson lo Receive
Hasty Heart”, has also written

“Teahouse of the August Moon”
and “Love Is a Many-Splendored
Thing.” “The Hasty Heart” has been
done previously at Davidson by
the Red and Black Masquers.

Local Safety Council

Posts Traffic Signals

Two stop lights, and two blinker
lights have been put up in the
Davidson community as a result
of the efforts of the Davidson
Safety Council.

The two stop lights are at the
corner of Concord Avenue and
Woodlawn Road and at the inter-
section of the new access highway
in front of Shearer Hall. The two
blinker lights are at the corner
of Thompson and Concord and in
front of Fraternity Court.

The Safety Council was appoint-

Hungarian Refugees

The Davidsonian received as-
surance Wednesday morning from
the Church World Service that a
Hungarian family for Davidson
would be located by the end of
the week.

A telephone call to Miss Grodga.
representative of Church World
Service at New Brunswick, N. J.,
brought this promise of immediate
action. Miss Grodga stated in her
phone interview that families are
now flooding into Camp Kilmer and
that it should now be possible to
find a family which would be suit-
able for the Davidson community.

She also denied any knowledge
of a statement received by the
Davidsonian from Dr. Rowland
Eliott, president of Church World
Services, that a refugee family

A.M.—Sixth Hours Classes

THURSDAY,

P.M-—ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41

ed by the Town Council and is en-|} would probably be sent to David-

It was reported that several
items such as hi-fi records and
sport coats had been stolen from
the owners’ dormitory rooms over
the holidays.

Here It Is—Exam Schedule

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16
A.M.—Mathematics 10, 11, 13

Monday, Wednesday, Friday

THURSDAY, JANUARY 17
P.M.—Third Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

FRIDAY, JANUARY 18

MONDAY, JANUARY 21
P.M.—Fourth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

TUESDAY, JANUARY 22
A.M.—First Hours Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
P.M.—First Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23
P.M.—Fifth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

JANUARY 24

A.M.—Second Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

Classes for First Semester close January 15 — 12:50 P.M.
Morning examinations begin at 9:00 A.M.
Afternoon examinations begin at 2:00 P.M.

ALL CAPITOL AND DECCA LP’S 20” OFF

John Bernhardt. for the fellowships.

Recipients of French teaching
assistantships will teach conversa-
tional English in secondary schools
and teacher training ‘institutions in
| France. These posts are intended
for future teachers of French. A
few applicants with special train-
ing in American literature and
some experience in college teach-
ing may be selected for postes de
lecteurs, teaching assignments in
French universities. Stipends cov-
er maintenance.

Graduate fellowships are open
to students in all fields of study.
In the field of medicine, candidates

managing editor and finally edi-
tor-in-chief of the “Quips and
Cranks.”

He was a member of Kappa Al-
pha social fraternity, where he
served successively as his pledge
class president, then secretary and
later president of the fraternity.

Loy contributed in other areas
such as dramatics where he was
elected secretary of the Red and
Black Masquers. He was a mem-
ber of the Student Council, the
Y Cabinet, vice-president of the
Philanthropic Literary Society, and
President of the College Bible
Class.

WANTED

PRE-MEDICAL SENIOR

to serve as campus representative for the world’s largest
exclusive manufacturer of microscopes. -

For further information write to:

REICHERT OPTICAL WORKS
82 Beaver Street
New Veark 5, .N. Y.

Iship awards are for students with] ment awards may, if eligible, apply

erate academic projects or study |for Fulbright travel grants. Since
plans. The assistantships afford|the number of supplementary
LC INCORPORATED
1415 ELIZABETH AVENUE

Charlotte’s most complete

music center offers the
finest in HIGH FIDELITY
COMPONENTS.........

PENNY WISE*
POUND FOOLISH

“I’m sad to say,” said Tootsie Brown,
“The weight I gain just gets me down.
Each bite, each drop of this or that,

Immediately turns to fat.

Some girls, I note, oan eat and eat

And yet they still look trim
To aggravate the situation

I much dislike my fat’s location.
I wouldn’t so much want to change me,
If only I could rearrange me.”

gpehester Field

and neat.

morat: Rearrange your smoking

deavoring to improve safety con-
ditions in Davidson.

YMCA Sponsors Chapel
During Exam Period

Each day during the examination
period a voluntary chapel will be
held in Lingle Chapel at 8:30 a.m.
This is being arranged through the
Worship post of the YMCA.

son before Christmas.

Davidson students have to date
contributed over $3,000 to the Da-
vidson College Gift Fund, whose
stated project for 1957 is to bring
a Hungarian family to the local
community.

Early student body enthusiasm
for the project has suffered consid-
erably due to the continuing delay
in securing a family.

DIAMOND NEEDLES FOR ALL POPULAR
RECORD CHANGERS ONLY

$12.95

PARKER-

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

118 West Trade Street

A.M.—tThird Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
SATURDAY, JANUARY 19
Monday, Wednesday. Friday
P.M.—Fourth Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
Phone ED. 2-8257

_ Presentation of this ad entitles the
bearer to a 20% DISCOUNT on all
record purchases ... Offer good until
February 1, 1957.

GARDNER

ideas and find what contentment
means. Get real pleasure, real
satisfaction, with Chesterfield—thr
cigarette that’s packed more
smoothly by Accu. Ray for the
smoothest-tasting smoke today!

Smoke for real... smoke Chesterfield

*850 to ANN BLACKMAR, Bouling G:
Stote University for her Chester Field porns. ven

O Liggett @ Myers Tbs -co Co.

