STUDENT LEADERS
GIVE ELECTION VIEWS
(Page Two)

Duke Endowment “Trustees

4

Benefactors Look Around

get a guided tour from Or:

Cunningham after their luncheon meeting here Tuesday. Left to
right are: Mr. Norman A. Cocke of Charlotte, Mr. George G. Allen,
Chairman of the Trustees from New York City, and Mr. Alexander

H. Sands of New York City.

TOUR CAMPUS

Duke Trustees Given
Outline of 10-Year Plan

Trustees of the Duke Endowment met at Davidson Col-
lege Tuesday afternoon and heard a progress report on the
college since it was named a benefactor of the trust estab-
lished by James Buchanan Duke.

D. Grier Martin, college treas-
urer, noted that since 1924, when
the Duke Endowment was created,
“not a single Davidson building,
driveway, walkway or piece of
shrubbery has been established”
without the direct help of the
endowment.

The Endowment made possible,
he noted, the construction of the
college’s main building, the Max-
well Chambers, in 1929, and has
since helped make possible the
Martin Science Building, Grey Li-
brary, Ovens College Union
Johnston gymnasium, Davidson
College Church, W. H. Belk Hall
and a new dormitory, as yet un-
named. ;

The Duke trustees also heard
reports from the students, facul-
ty and trustees, and an outline by
President John R. Cunningham of
the “Ten Year Plan” of the col-
lege, now under consideration of
the Davidson trustees.

Dr. Cunningham, presided at
the meeting, and presented to
Duke Endowment chairman George
G. Allen a citation honoring the
trustees for their administration
of the endowment.

Other Duke Endowment trus-

tees attending were Alex H. Sands,
Jr., Thomas L. Perkins, and Ken-
neth Towe all of New York City;
Dr. Bennette E. Geer of Green-
ville, S. C.; R. Grady Rankin of
Gastonia; and Norman A. Cocke,
(Continued On Page Four)

Six New Members
Join Delta Phi Alpha

Delta Phi Alpha inducted six
members this week. Phil Kukura,
president of. the German club,
welcomed the select advanced
German students.

The new members are: Bill
Bondurant, Lloyd Chapin, Bill
Colston, Jerry Eller, George Gil-
mer, and Tom Thrailkill. These
candidates were picked from stu-
dents with an average of “B” or
better in two or more years of
study of the German Language.

Promotion of the German lIan-
guage, Literature, and civilization
with the expressed hope that a
more sympathetic appreciation of
the German speaking peoples and
their culture will develop, is the
purpose of the organization.

EFFECTIVE APRIL 1

Faculty Receives
Salary Increase

outside Atlanta where Fields was

tory bandit.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.

C. FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1957

Che Aautdsontan

CAT TANKMEN
IN CONFERENCE SWIM
(Page Three)

No. 18

‘Les Brown and Band of Renown

Sign for Spring Frolics Dances

Nation’s No. 1 Band to
Entertain at Top Social

Les Brown and his “Band of Renown” will be featured
at the Davidson Spring Frolics‘ Dance weekend set for

COLLEGE BANDIT
TO DIE TUESDAY
FOR COP KILLING

Jennings E. Ftelds, who has
been detained from the electric
chair on numerous occasions,
again has been sentenced to die
next Tuesday for the pistol slay-
ing of DeKalb County (Georgia)
Patrolman James L. Mize.

Members of the present senior
class at Davidson remember Fields
as the man who, early in the
morning of February 4, 1954,
entered over 20 rooms in three
dormitories here, escaped with ap-
proximately $350 plus a wrist-
watch and threatened two stu-
dents who challenged him with

a gun.
Fields’ activities after leaving
Davidson included four days of

notorious plunder and murder, cli-
maxed by the fatal shooting of
officer Mize on February 6, 1954.

Entire credit for. the detection
and capture of Fields was given
to Davidson’s night watchman, Ed.
N. “Cop” Linker. It was Linker:
who spotted the bandit’s car
parked beside the College Union
in the early morning hours of
February 4.

Had it not been for Mr. Linker’s
alertness in copying the license
number of the car, Mecklenburg
‘County police frankly admit that
the bandit would probably never
have been caught.

Several days after Fields’ ap-
pearance here. Davidson students
Martin Foil and Joe Jenkins were

taken to the DeKalb County jail By LLOYD CHAPIN

And LAURENS WALKER

| In a double barreled gift, the
Student Council -on Wednesday,
_dropped into the laps of the Stu-
DeKalb Superior Court Judge | dent Body the far-reaching ques-
Frank Guess has set the new tions of whether it wants slam-
execution date for March 5 al the bang campus electioneering and of
state prison at Reidsville, Ga.
Gov. Marvin Griffin granted aicil By-Laws.
15-day stay of execution for Fields} The two amendments submitted
on January 30, only minutes be- to the Student Body grew out of

fore the 32-year-old convicted kill- the Council's work at recent called
er was to have gone to the elec-: meetings, held February 25 and
, At the Monday night meeting
Filmin Will Resume coms Peden, senior and non
9 group a petition signed by 50 stu-
dents asking for the deletion of
reer ; hich forbid campaigning for po-
Filming of the Davidson story “? ) pag
wilt - probably resume this spring litical office. Specifically, these
on church-related colleges. Ap-| 19 and Artiele 14, section 4) for-
proximately ‘15 colleges have! bid combines, solicitation of votes,
The Protestant Radio and Tele- fOr the disqualification of any
candidate guilty of violating these
on March 8 or 11. It will make
definite plans then concerning the PEDEN AMENDMENT
, \Citizen Peden readily admitted
Davidson Story would. serve as a to the. Council
pilot model. was in a general form and hazy on
. : . | specific points. He requested that
several times since the resigna-, .
tion of producer-director George |
for him has not yet been found.
The estimated cost to each college

being held and there positively
identified the man as the dormi-

tric chair. 27.
council member, presented to the
On Davidson Sf
n avi son ory those portions of the Constitution
as the first in a series of movies portions (Article V, sections 8, 9.
agreed to take part in the series. and campaign expenses, providing
vision Center will meet in Atlanta, .
regulations.
projected series. for which the
that his petition
The Protestant Center has met
P. Gunn last: fall. A replacement Mireille Dardel Gives

who has the right to amend Coun-'

|WOULD OK CAMPAIGNING

the Council aid him in wording
it in the form of a Constitufional
Amendment. In compliance with
the Constitution (Article XVIII.
section 1) the Council agreed to
reword the petition in the form
of an amendment and “present
it to the student body for ap-
proval.”

Wednesday night the Council
formally heard a rewording of the
petition and made plans to have
it read to the Student Body cur-
ing Chapel Friday. As a proposed
amendment, it must Jay on the
table for ten days before Student
Body action can be taken.

Wednesday night, President La-
Far asked Councilman Vernon
Hunter to state to the Council his
views on the Peden Amendment.
In part, Hunter said, “This is the
legal forestep to political parties.

Yearbook Layout
Nearing Completion

Ed Young, the Editor of Quips
and Cranks, has announced that
the actual writing of this year’s
edition would be finished shortly.

“With the exception of the
Spring sections (which will be
added later) and some of the pho-
tographic work, which has been
‘delayed by inclement weather, the
final layout is nearly completed,”

Council Plays to Packed House

Tom Morgan, one of a number of interested spectators who jammed Monday night's Student
Council meeting, makes a point in the hectic session which sprawled out over three and a haif hours.

Two Amendments Offered"
For Student Body Vote

The ultimate aim of the petition
is this—to open the way to po-
litical parties.”

The second amendment read to
the Student. Body was prepared
by Councilman Hunter in an ef-
fort to extract the Council from
a week-long constitutional and
procedural mire. The question.
‘raised in debate over electoral
procedure. was whether the Coun-
cil has the right to amend the
By-Laws, and this question had
:managed to stymie the actions of
the group for nearly a week.

The Monday night meeting, a
tense, complicated 3% hours of
debate, brought the questions to
a head. Ten members of the Coun-
cil led by Vernon Hunter and
spectator Phil Lewis claimed that
the By-Laws are not a part of the
Constitution. and that the Student

ICouncii may amend them. They|

_based their argument on Robert's
Rules of Order and a preceacnt
| set last year.

| ‘They pointed out the fact that

April 12-14.

The Interfraternity Council has announced plans for the
“nation’s number one band" to entertain the student body at
what many students feel is the top social event of the year.

This band hds gained world
fame through its eight year's as-
sociation with the Bob Hope radio
and television shows, it’s numer-

ous recordings for well-known
record companies, and more re-
cently its personal appearance

tours before our armed forces in
Europe, Japan, Alaska, and Korea.
* Brown's stamstudded group in:
cludes his aide de-camp vocalist

and comedian Harry “Butch”
Stone. trombonist and vocal
stylist Stumpy Brown, and the

feminine voice and charm of Miss
Jo Ann Greer.

The band's contribution of re-
cent recordings for Capitol
Records numbers hit albums such
as the “College Classics” album.
Singte records include such tunes
as “Take Back Your Mink” from
“Guys and Dolls”, and “That Cer-
tain Feeling.” latter was

The

waxed with the aid of Miss Greer’s
voice.

Les Brown's first big break
came while he was a student at
Duke University where he became
leader of the University band, the
“Blue Devils” ‘in his junior year.
Iv 1937 Brown headed for New
York and began work with big
names such as- Red Nichols and
Jimmy Dorsey.

In 1940 the “Band of Renown"
was organized. This musical group
has moved steadily forward to the
front place among American
bands. ‘

Brown's formula for success was
best expressed in an article con-
tained in Time Magazine which
quoted him as saying. “We prefer
sound to noise, we prefer the beat
over the effects, we prefer con-
sonance to dissonance. and we like
the melody if its good.”

Les Brown
Brings “Band of Renown” Here for Spring Frolics.

the Council of 1955-56 treated the RECORD NUMBER

By-Laws as separate from the Con-
jstitution and amended them with-
‘out the consent of the Student
| Bouy.

LAFAR RULES

This brought the statement
from President LaFar that he was
“ashamed that 1 was sitting in
this group.” He then ruled that
the By Laws are to be amended
in the same way as the Constitu-

Contestants

On Campus

For Scholarship Finals

A record total of outstanding scholarship finalists are

visiting the Davidson campus this weekend in competition for

All faculty salaries will be increased 5% beginning
the annually-awarded Baker, Union Carbide, Proctor and

m explained Young.
March 1, 1957. The faculty will receive the first check re-

The Editor would not disclose

French Club Progra

involved has been cut from $5000,

to $2500 through gifts to the tion, that. is, by a 2.3 vote of the

flecting this increase on April 1.

Actual approval of this increase
was made by the Board of Trus-
tees during their recent mid-year
meeting. Though somewhat over-
shadowed by the resignation of
Dr. Cunningham this and several
other important recommendations
were approved by the Trustees.

An increase in charges for room
rent, laundry and meals totaling
$50 per year were approved. This
increase is to become effective
September 1, 1957. Dr. Cunning-
ham explained in his report that
“increases in the cost of operating

Mr. A. G. Odell of Charlotte, an
architect, to design the addition
to the library structure. The firm
of O’Conner and Kitham, New
York City, will be asked to serve
as consultants in drawing the
plans.

The sum of $24,000 represent-
ing a bequest of Mrs. Margaret
Clay Thompson plus an additional
$1,000 from the funds of the Col-
lege was designated for use in the
purchasing of books for the library
during the next three years.

’ The administrative staff of the

our auxiliary enterprises during, College also came in for a 5%
recent years have outdistanced)pay increase. The Board directed

the slight increases made

in|that their increase become effec-

charges . . . several are operating|tive simultaneously with that of
at a loss...” The increase will|the faculty.

include $15 per year for laundry,

A committee of Trustees was

$2 per month for food served in| instructed to study the “Ten Year
the Student Union Cafeteria, and|Plan,” a proposed program for

$20 per year for room rent.
The Board formally retained

the future development of David-
(Continued On Page Four)

film on its own initiative, if the;to Le Cercle Francais Tuesday
plans of the Protestant Center are | evening.
in her native tongue the life and
customs of the typical student in
Awarded For Service France” and of her encounter
Colonel William P. Grace, Jr., with Ernest Hemingway during
from 1946 to 1949, was awarded!French songs, by the members of
the Legion of Merit with First the honorary French society, Miss
He was cited for “exceptionally meeting was held, where she
meritorious conduct in the per- served punch to those present.
1957. Colonel Grace has distin- | change student several years ago.
guished himself as a line officer.|She is planning to spend the next

Center. Mireille Dardel, graduate of the
Davidson will preduce a similar | Sorbonne of Paris, France, spoke
not fulfilled. Featured as the major part of
the program, Miss Dardel described
Ex-Davidson PMS&1
x av son é Paris. She told of her voyage to
America aboard the “Ile de
ex-professor of Military Science. the trip.
and Tactics at Davidson College, After the singing of several
Oak Leaf Cluster in Washington, Dardel led the way to the Watts’
D. C., on Feb, 19, 1957. dining room, at whose home the
formance of duty during the' Her brother, Guy, attended Da-
period January 1946 to January‘vidson for one year as an ex-
staff officer, military educator./six months with the Goldiere’s,
and combat commander.” where she is now living.

any of the details about the gen-
leral outline for the annual, nor
would he give any hint as to this
year’s dedication (‘top secret
stuff"). The only comment Young
would make, was that the choos-
ing of the Quips and Cranks Beau.
ties was now in progress.

Young had two requests to
make. He stated that his staff is
in need of people to re-type copy,

(Continued On Page Four)

LF.C. To Evaulate
Hell Week Events

Hell Week was the main topic
of discussion at the LF.C. meet-
ing last Monday night.

The enforcement of the regula-

and that anyone willing to do this:tions was emphasized, and mem-

kind of work please contact him;.
and secondly, he expressed a de-

sire to hear some student reac-
tions. pro and con, on the value
of the “Student Body Directory”
that appears at the end of each
year's book.

According to Young, if every-
thing continues to follow the pro-
duction schedule as well as it has
thus far, the 1957 version of Quips
and Cranks will be ready for dis-
tribution on or near the first week
in May.

bers were reminded of their re-

sponsibility in keeping their fra-

ternity within these regulations.
A committee was appointed. to

evaluate the incidents during Hellt|

|

Week. It will study the shortcom.
ings and try to improve regula-

inesday and completed their pro-

ships.

The 45 representatives of 13
states will attend two-day sessions
of tests, interviews, and socials
with faculty and students. The
contestants from the two Caro-
linas, constituting Group A and
one-half of the total, arrived Wed-

gram with lunch today. Group B,
consisting of the representatives
of the other eleven states. came
on Thursday and will continue
their program until mid-day to-
morrow.

Ed Stevens. in charge of trans-
portation for the finalists, ar-

tions for the advantage of future'ranged for each participant's ar-

years.

rival at the Guest House. Student

Plans for the promotion of the|hosts met the boys there, con-

Louis Armstrong concert

were | ducted them to dinner and a short

discussed. Posters will be posted,' coffee, and afterwards turned them
and local dise jockeys will adver- over to the members of the scho-

tise the concert on their programs. |

larship committee.

;Gamble, Harding-Johnson, Staley, Honor, and Special Scholar-

The finalists’ first full day be.
| gan with achievement tests and a
Personality Inventory in Chambers,
separated by a coffee hour with
the faculty in the Union ballroom.

(Continued On Page Four)

I.R.C. Panel Discusses
Near Eastern Problem

The International Relations Club
held a regular meeting Tuesday
night, February 26. The program
for the evening was a panel dis.
cussion on contemporary problems
in the Near East,

Specific problems discussed
were the Kashmir situation, and
in the Mid-East examination was
made of the Pan-Arab national:
istic emotion, the  pro-Soviet
aspirations, and the pro-American
i motives,
