THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE FOUR

Duke Trustees

(Continued From Page One)
W. S. O’B. Robinson, Dr. W. S.
Rankin. Marshall I. Pickens ard
Thomas F. Hill, all of Charlotte.

The trustees had lunch at the
college union, heard reports from
the college and were conducted |
on a tour of the campus. : /

Five per cent of the Duke En-| a

dowment was designated for Da- caer
a >
a
pe ° hem

‘|vidson, and has amounted to an
RK.

estimated $3 and one half million
dollars since its establishment.

Dr. Cunningham's citation to
the trustees was “in grateful ap-
preciation . . . for their wise and
dedicated stewardship in carrying
forward the great and generous
philanthropy of James Buchanan
Duke.”

It also honored them “for their
continued interest in the educa-

Safety Gets Green Light

om

kod

FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1957

21_MAJOR_ GRANTS

Scholarship Aid Program
Shows Increase Since ’48

By GRIER DAVIS who are particularly interested in extra-curricular, recommend a-
Growing from the establishment future careers in business or in-'tions, and tests, the most im-
of the first Baker Scholarships in dustry ; nese awards cover ful portant of which is the Scholastic
1948, the Davidson College scho- | UtHtton. 2 and books, an amoun P
larship program now Be des equivalent to approximately $e40, APtitude Section of the rollees
twenty-one major scholarships. |@8ed on the difference of the|Entrance Examination Boar

The three original yearly Baker ae eae ee holarshi | Tests.
awards were made possible by a ve other tuition scholarships
gift of $80,000 from the George pi Were originated in 1954, one Wil-| LARGEST GROUP

Baker Trust of New York City, liam A. Merchant and two Hard-. This year the forty-two finalists
This amount has been invested iN8Johnson Scholarships and two constitute the largest group ever

and expanded: and, at the present DF and Mrs. Thomas F. Staley Me-
time, ten Baker scholarships are Morial Scholarships, the latter be- Selected to undergo the weekend

ing restricted to candidates for of further testing and interviews.

Greeks Stage Help Week

Alpha Tev Omega informal initiation. proceedings this week
featured two afternoons of work at the Barium Springs Orphanage.
Hore ATO pledges grunt and groan as the local cemetery gets a
face-lifting.

CUNNINGHAM DIRECTS

Foundation Gives Aidt
World, Home Missions

The Presbyterian Foundation, soon to have Dr. John r. Two Amendments

Cunningham as executive director, traces its history from the (Continued From Page’ One)
year 1866. In that year the “Trustees of the General Assem- student Body. since there is no
bly” was ratified as an incorporated body. {specific provision for doing other-jand problems and a survey of the
This same organization was cer- wise. ° town of Davidson's streets. It be-
tified in 1925 by the Secretary of; quests will come into the hands! At this point Hunter prepared gah Thursday and will end Sat-
State of North Carolina as thejof the Foundation in the near fu- the amendment which, ‘if adopted, ! urday.
Presbyterian Foundation. ture, thereby boosting the amount, would give to the Student Coun-' The purpose is to promote safe-
The function of the Foundation | invested considerably. ich the pene revise the By-Laws ty consciousness. both vehicle
. we ; . _ “through a 2-3 vote of total mem-|driver and pedestrian. through a
S to administer funds provided | One of the most attractive bership.” Although read to the positive program of safety educa-
y als or congregations’ methods of donating money of- ctydent Body Frid hi delth ;
through gift or bequest for any) fered by the Foundation is the udent Body Friday. this amend-; tion. Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, com
agency of the Church. The chiét! annuity Bond. By this method.
duty of the organization is the ad an individual may donate a sum

tional progress of Davidson Col-
lege, a Christian institution for the
training of students of ‘character,

Davidson Mayor F. L. Jackson and Colonel John -D. Sapp,
chairman of the town’s Safety Council, beam their approval over
determination and application! the installation of the traffic light on North Main Street. Traffic
evincing a wholesome and real light installation is only a part of an intensive safety campaign
‘ambition for life.’” climaxed by a three-day educational program this weekend.

The last quote was taken from
a statement by Mr. Duke. e e

Davidson Community
")
Joins In Safety Drive

Dr. Warner Hall of Charlotte
represented the trustees, Dr.
Frontis Johnston the faculty and

The entire community of Davidson joins this week in a
two-day drive for safety.
Sponsored by the Davidson

Dan LaFar, Jr.. of Gastonia the
students. Robert G. Sailstad of. the

Safety Council. the drive includes
visits by officials of the county

college staff outlined the college's
and state highway departments,

future needs and plans.
demonstrations of traffic dangers

year.

er alike,
streetcrossers and speeding driv-
ers within a community.

POSTER CONTEST

contest for the students. Tennessee.

Mr. Eugene T.. McEver is co-

and will oversee the
“cooling off period" before be- ROTC unit at Davidson College , survey will note blind corners,

we . : coming subject to approval. i i il. i i .
ministration of wills. At the pres-|of money to the Foundation. which In oh er ‘setion the council re- is chairman of the council raat one ccation of vanal

ent time, more than forty wills|in turn guarantees him an income
n irmed i . hol te : : a
are being handled by the founda- jfrom the interest of the capital wee its dee ion dient ave , -_ lights, parking, speed conditions
tion, Many more have been dis-'sum. At the death of the donor,’ ng : aily during Stu en Y, The council has solicited the (including the use of whammies),
posed of in the past where the the capital becomes a part of the elections and to place ballot boxes support of civic organizations, and! use of signals, the need for one
funds were not to be held in per-!poundation’s funds in the. lobby of Chambers Build- ;esponse indicates wholehearted Way streets (if any), the need for
petuity. | . ing and the Student ue ' cooperation says Colonel Sapp. student crosswalks and control of

e Council was unable to ac

. on the question of a consofidated sorely oe sponsored nd
ballot, pending Clarification oof HtS'the Business and Professional’
Power to amend the by-laws. Women’s Club. Mrs. Harold P.'
Ford will direct operation of the!

Dr. John 0. Nelson

Civic SUPPORT

The Boards of the Presbyterian
Church, U. S.. have received the
greatest benefit from the funds
of the Foundation. This is in line
with the original intent of the
organization to support Christian
Education, World Missions, and’
Home Missions. However, every
agency of the Church has at one
time or another received direct
benefit from the Foundation.

Faculty Receives

(Continued From Page One)
‘son. Final action on the Plan will
be taken in May of this year.

-booth, which will offer safe driv-,
‘ing pledge cards for both auto-

pressed to Professor J. P. Wil- Is Vespers Speaker ymebile and bicycle operators.

liams who consented to complete| Dr. John Oliver Nelson, of the Safety literature is being dis-

the year at Davidson ‘due’ to, the| Yale University Divinity School,’ tflbuted by Davidson students un-

resignation of Professor Fred Mor-|will be the Vespers speaker Sun- der the direction of Dr. S. R.

day evening. - Spencer, Jr., a member of the
A Pittsburgher. Dr. Nelson re. Safety Council.

ceived his B.D. degree from the Davidson firemen are oversee-

Appreciation was formally ex-
University of Edinburgh in Scot-. ing a practical safety

The “foundation idea" is not | #0P-

unique to the southern Presbyte-; Finally, committees were ap-
rian denomination. The Protestant} pointed to find appropriate means
Episcopal, the Presbyterian) of taking note of the deaths of:
Church, U.S.A. and the Lutheran|pr. Walter L. Lingle and Dr, C.
Church each have such founda-|K_ Brown.

tion. and have them now on an
effective basis.

Firat of all, what’s it all about? What
does a fellow like John Jackson do
all day? In his own words, “I keep
in touch with the executives of many
different companies—advising them
on the use of their IBM electronic
data processing computers. I perzon-
ally consult with these customers,
and analyze their scientific and tech-
nical problems for solution by IBM.
Occasionally, I’m asked to write
papers, and give talks and demon-
strations on electronic computing.
All in all, it’s pretty fascinating...
something new pops up every day.”
In other words, John is a full-fledged
computing expert, a consultant...
and a very important person in this

he en oy
7

t

land and McCormick Seminary in. tion, which will likely be given
Chicago; followed by a Yale Ph.D., on Concord Road and which will
in the philosophy of religion. {point out, to pedestrian and driv-

Contestants

Last May the General Assembly
approved a budget of $25,000 for (Continued From Page One)
the foundation. It is understood Interviews, free time, a social, and
that this money will be used to’, ginner with Faculty and Stu-
establish an office staff in Char- dent Hosts completed the official
lotte which will in turn make the day. .
activities of the Foundation known
to the public. Dr. Cunningham is OPEN HOUSE AT FRATS
expected to play a leading role! Kappa Alpha, Alpha Tau Ome-
in this presentation of the aims|ga, Campus Club, and Sigma Chil
of the institution. entertained the participants at

1) ou. er th inner.
At present. the Foundation con- pen house aft dinner
The finalists’

trols wills amounting to some $2,- second morning
000,000. A large part of this total;on campus consisted of interviews,
is due to a recent $1,000,000 be-| visits to classes, and a coffee in
quest by a Florida physician. It, the Union. Their two day stay
is expected that several large be- | officially closed with lunch.

| Chester Field

.

IT'S FOR REAL! gf

5
* -
Calling on o custemer

coming age of automation through
electronica.

Since the IBM laboratories are
always devising easier and faster ways
to solve the problems of science, gov-
ernment, and industry, an Applied
Science Representative can never say
he’s learned his job and that’s the
end of it. At least once every two
months, he attends seminars to be
updated on the latest developmentsin
engineering and operations research.

Introduces new methods

During the two years that John
has spent with IBM in Applied Sci-
ence, he has guided innumerable IBM
customers to new and better ways of
doing things electronically. For ex-
ample: about a year ago, a leading
aircraft manufacturer wanted to ex-
periment with a radically different
design for a nuclear reactor. Although
the basic format had been established,
the project still required many months
of toil with mathematical equationa,

°

COPYRIGHT 1967 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Dont just sit there!

You'll enjoy today’s copy of this publication
much more if you'll get up right now and get

HOW PRACTICAL iS MOONLIGHT?

The bookworm said, “A moonlight night
Is apt to be a worthwhile sight,
But after you're through with it
What can you do with it?”

MORAL: Plenty, chum! Open up
your libido and let in some
moonlight. Take your pleastre
BIG . . . emoke Chesterfield King.
With that big size and that big
taste . .. it’s the smoothest tasting
amoke today "cause it’s packed
more smoothly by ACCU-RAY.

itke your pleasure BIG? :
A Chesterfield King hes Everything!

ee See iE Pe Beal Neveu N.Y.

@Lawett & Myene Tedesse Oa,

yourself an ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola.
(Naturally, we’d be happier, too!)

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By
THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

© 1936, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

“Coke” is o registered trade-mark,

given every year.

Baker Scholars are chosen sole-
ly on their merits. The vale of
each scholarship
jhowever, by the individual's need |
of assistance and may range from
an honorary award without stipend
to an award of up to $1,250 per

DAVIDSON HONORED

Davidson, in being singled out
from among the colleges in this
region to administer these Baker
. ‘scholarships, was given a distine-
the peril of unwary |tive honor. The George F. Baker’

Trust made only five other origin- |
al grants, going to representative
institutions in five other sections:

At the Davidson school, highway {Carleton College. in Minnesota;
department officials wili also con-| Kenyon College, in Ohio; the Uni-;
duct a safety demonstration for| versity of Rochester, in New York;
school children. Mrs. W. G. Work-|Stanford University, in California;
man is conducting a safety posterj|and Vanderbilt

Before the advent of the Baker
ordinating the roles to be play: ©|Scholarships, Davidson had offered
by city, state and county police,| grants-in-aid of amounts up to.
survey {$350 a year. In order to balance
ment must also sit out a ten day manding officer of the Army|of the town’s traffic problems. The|the new program, the College set
t up three yearly Honor Scholar-
ships of intermediate value, which
would cover up to full tuition. or
$500 per year.

UNION CARBIDE

In 1953 two Union Carbidé and
Carbon Corporation Scholarships
pedestrians, especially children. | were established for candidates

is determined, Company.

University, in

The preliminary

118 West Trade Street

ithe Christian ministry. In 1955,Contrary to popular opinion, the
a final tuition scholarship was final scholarship awards are not
added by the Proctor and Gamble made primarily on the basis of

selection of scholastic aptitude, but rather, on
finalist is based on secondary the basis of well-rounded interests
school records, both academic and and abilities.

CLASSICS - POP - JAZZ

YOUR HEADQUARTERS IN CHARLOTTE FOR

THE BEST IN RECORDS

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

What a MATHEMATICIAN

can do at IBM

Mathematics is an ancient but eves-advancing science that contains many
forms. Wt shouldn't surprise you then that it took some time before John
Jackson discovered the one brand of mathematics that seemed custom-
tailored to his ability and temperament. John is an Applied Science Repre-
sentotive, working out of the IBM office at 122 East 42nd Street, N. Y. C.

The aircraft people decided that they
couldn’t afford to wait that long, so
they called in IBM. After discussion
with top executives, John helped to
map out a computer program that
saved the organization over 100 days

Th tim: i— a
. a

Mapping out o computer program

of pencil-chewing, nail-biting arith-
metic. Later, for this same company,
John organized the establishment of
computer systems for aircraft per-
formance predictions . . . for data
reduction of wind tunnel tests... and
for wing stress analysis. At the same
time, he worked with this company’s
own employees, training them in the
use of IBM equipment. John still
drops around to see that everything
is running smoothly.

Another service that John performs
is the constant reappraisal of each
customer’s IBM operation. Occasion-
ally, a customer may tie himself in
knots over a procedural “stickler.’’
Periodically, in fact, John brings
IBM customers together . . . just to
talk over what’s happening in each
other’s business—how everybody else
handled that old bugaboo in any
industry ... details.

New field for Mathematicians

John is exercising his mathematical
know-how in a field that was prac-
tically unheard of ten years ago. Even
“now, this kind of work may be news
to you. It was to John Jackson a few
years back when he was an under-
graduate at the University of Colo-
rado. At that time, he was considering
actuarial work or mathematical re-
search. But John liked the excitement
and diversification of science and in-
dustry and he wanted to use his

mathematical background in both of
those areas. It was not until he was
interviewed by IBM that field cum-
puting whetted his scientific appetite.
A few months later, John launched
his own TBM career as an Applied
Science trainee.

Promotionwise, John has come a
long way since that time. He’s now
an Applied Science Representative in
one of the busiest, most responsible
offices in the IBM organization ...
mid-town Manhattan.

With his wife, Katherine, and
daughter, Lisa, 20 months, and John,

*. ed

Discussing e problem with colleagues

Jr., 6 weeks, he enjoys his suburban
Port Washington home. He's happy
and he’s satisfied. And then, too, John
kmows a few vital statistics about
IBM . .. such as the fact that the
Applied Science Division has quad-
rupled during the past three yeare,
and that in 1956 alone, over 70 pro-
motions were conferred. If ever a
future held promise, here is one.

IBM hopes that this message will help
to give you some idea of what a mathe-
matician can do at IBM. There are equal
opportunities for E.E.’s, M.E.’s, physi-
cists and Liberal Arts majors in IBM's
many divisions— Research, Product De-
velopment, Manufacturing Engineering,
Sales and Technical Services. Why not
drop in and discuss 1BM with your Place-
ment Director? He can supply our latest
brochure and tell you when IBM will
next interview on your campus. Mean-
while, IBM will be happy to answer your
questions. Just write to Mr. P. H. Bradley,
IBM, Room 8701, 590 Madison Avenue

New York 22, N. Y.
INTERNATIONAL

BUSINESS MACHINES
CORPORATION

IBM

DATA PROCESSING © ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS © TIME EQUIPMENT © GNLSTARY PROLUCTS © SPECIAL ENGINEZAING PRODUCTS © suPPLiss

Phone ED. 2-8257

Charlotte, N. C.
