c—_—_—_—_ee

LETTER ANSWERS
CRITIC OF LAWRENCE

(Page 2)

VOL. XLVI

Honor System
Change?-Smyth

“] am more interested in discussion of the problem
than pushing it through,” answered Student Body Presi-
dent Ross Smyth in a DAVIDSONIAN press conference
Wednesday.

He was referring to his campaign speech of last
spring when he spoke of modifications in the Honor Sys-
tem.

He proposed two things at that time: (1) Re-examine
and re-evaluate the system to see if it needs any changes, '
and (2) Modify the penality for rfonor violations to a sus-|
pension penalty with the possibility of readmittance to
Davidson.

Smyth stated that a committee was formed last!
spring to study the problem, but that this committee |
hasn't met yet this year. He personally hopes for a
Ballroom discussion on the matter and does not intend
to push for honor policy revisions this year. “There are!
many points, pro and con.”

Q. “Do you feel committed to ma
stand?”

A. “We can’t spend too much time discussing the
issue.” Smyth again asserted his feeling that any change
must come as the result of extensive discussion of the
matter.

Q. “Do you feel that your election was a mandate
for this change? Is this the main reason you won?”

A. “Many people told me
that they were behind me,
but they did not vote for *
me specifically on this.” —

Q. “Do you feel obligated
to make a definite proposal
to the Council?”

A. “Definitely.”

Q. “When?”

A. “We must determine
the techniques and discuss ' .
the matter.”

Q. “When do you plan to
take definite action it?”
A. “We plan to talk about

it Monday night. (The next

Council meeting.) ROSS SMYTH

PURPOSE OF AMENDMENT
When querried as to the purpose of the amendment
Smyth said that permanent dismissal from Davidson
means that a boy cannot get into any other reputable
school in the country probably. This would deny the

boy a chance for a good education.
Q@. “How would the suspen-
sion work?” ‘mittance to other schools also.
A. The boy should be able}‘It has been done,” he added.
to come back to Davidson after} @Q. “Do you think the Student
a suspension period of a year,|Council will pass your amend-
or perhaps two years. Allowing | ment?”
for readmittance at Davidson{ A. “I can't say now. I’m not
would make him eligible for ad- (Continued on Back Page)

Phi Beta Gives Advice
To Future Candidates

By PETE KELLOGG
Davidsonian Feature Writer
How can I make Phi Beta Kappa? This article does
not guarantee results, but here is the advice of those who
have already done it and a little about what they had

to do it with.

At Davidson these select few
are generally pre-med, have
public high school educations,
and at least one parent in one
of the professions, usually medi-
cine.

About 1.Q., we don't know.
One of the scholars quoted
Chalmers Davidson’s remark
about the records of Phi Bet
alumni. “If you had it then,
you've got it now.”

DONT BE SQUARE

Suppose I’ve got enough to
get by on; how do I get Phi Bet
grades? The most general ad-
vice is to use time wisely and
effectively.

The big problem seems to be
striking to the best advantage
that fine balance between ex-
tra-cirricular activities and
study. None of the Phi Bets
interviewed recommended de-
voting full time to studying.

They had all managed to
balance their time well and par-
ticipate fully in extra activities.

ke a definite i

(
Ce

E

ad

the less, one man emphasized
the necessity of being willing to
sit down and work regularly.

It was pointed out that many
things, such as some extra ac-
tivities and dating, have to be
sacrificed to study.

SIX HOURS’ A DAY

All the men interviewed spent
more time studying their fresh-
man year than
their senior
year, and noted
amma direct corre-

spondence be-
‘tween study
i]:ime and grades.
‘1They averaged
iJalmost six hours
Jn day their
freshman year,
about three
now. Take hope

freshmen!

One_ interesting comment
made was that if professors
would plan their courses for
the genuinely interested stu-

oh

tternity.

‘| lege Unioh. Dr. George Labban,

pL

AAviDsontan

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1957

CATS MEET RICHMOND
TOMORROW

(Page 3)

NO. 9

6 Tapped At ODK Ceremony

4

ve

FAGG

Sam Sloan Elected
Junior Class Veep

Sam Sloan, a Business major
from Gastonia. N. C., was elect-
ed Vice-President of the junior
class on the fifth ballot after
an extremely close race with
Vernon Anderson of Union, S.
Cc.

Sam. replaces Tom Johnson
who vacated this office when he
did not return to the campus
this fall.

He is a member of the golf
team, the Y.M.C.A., the D Club,
and the Beaver Club.

_He is Rush Chairman of. Kap- :
pa Sigma Fraternity and held
the office of Scribe in that fra-

4

Willie Thompson
Elected President

The Classical Club had _ its
initial session this semester on
Monday evening, November 11,
in the Green Room of the Col-

POMEROY

~ oe pe -

aie aim

ad

é

14

WILSON

iy Ee

STOWE

College Committee

Archie Speaks On
Leadership Qualities

By BRUCE BROOKS
Davidsonian News Editor
Al its semi-annual tapping ceremony during chapel
Tuesday. the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa in-
ducted six seniors into its ranks. New members are Dave
Fagg, Phil Lewis, Gary Maynard, Bill Pomeroy, Charles
Stowe, and Gerald Wilson.

Bill, Bondurant, president of also. possessing a reasonable
ODK. presided at the ceremony amount of intelligence.

and John. Trask gave a short. . . :
devotional. John Bernhardt in-: Other active members taking

troduced the speaker, Dr. Wil- part an the ceremony were Lloyd
liam C. Archie, Dean of Wake Chapin. Ross Smyth. and Dave

Forest College. Bradford Faculty active mem.
Dean Archie spoke -on lead hers of ODK are F W Jobn-
con. D. G. Martin. C, Shaw

ership and the qualities neces-/ °°" ;
sary to become a leader. He Smith. and W. G. McGavock.

stressed that a person must be” OAVE FAGG 1s co-captain of
ambitious, opportunistic. and the football team and president

willing to take responsibility, | of Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity.
|

PHIL LEWIS was judge of the
Freshman Court of Controt and
is a member of Phi Delta Theta.
{He was chairman of Davidson's

delegation to the State Student

Studies Resoluti
u les 50 u 1ons Legislature last week.

| Resolutions for voluntary at-| GARY MAYNARD is presi-
tendance of the complete ves-| dent of the Business-Economics
pers service were presented by! Association and also president

faculty adviser for the group,
presided until the new officers
were elected.

Because the closing meeting
of last semester was devoted
to a Roman banquet, the officers
were not elected until this meet-
ing.

They are: President, Willie
Thompson; Vice-President, Car-
ter Daniel; Secretary, Bob
Groome; Treasurer, Dewitt Ro-
per; Sergeant-at-Arms, Edward
Wilson.

These officers ‘are selected
from members of Eta Sigma Phi,
national honorary fraternity
recognizing excellence in the
classical languages.

Dr. Labban and President
Thompson discussed with the
group the nature of the organi-

Daniel Presents | Court Construction

Talk On Housman

The Philanthropic Literary
Socicty held a meeting Monday
night. November 4. Carter
Daniel presented a talk on Al-
fred E. Housman. The subject:
of Daniel's talk on the late Mr.
Housman, a. Greek professor at |

Harvard. was the effect of athe-'ternity Court is progressing on schedule, according to

ism on his poetry. An open dis-| Mr. D. Grier Martin.

. ¢, e +. .
cussion on Housman’s poetry, The main water line has been| vested elsewhere at a greater

and his atheism
Daniel’s presentation.

A change in the procedure of
rolt. call was. initiated during
the business meeting. Hereto-
fore, a member would deliver a
brief quotation when his name
was called. The calling of names
has now been dispensed with.

Members will rise, present
themselves to the society, and

followed | jaid through the court. The fire-
plugs have been installed and

future.
ECONOMY MEASURE
As an economy measure, no

also the main sewer lines. The
installation of underground Wa3-| jain floor to the basement of
ter, gas, electric, and telephone] ihe houses will be finished with

lines the incvioual ouses | hardwood treads and railings,
{wi accomplished in the near, and the walls beside the stairs

|Shows Advancement |

By MICKEY THROWER
Davidsonian Reporter

The construction on the Patterson Memorial Fra-| communion, but whether it is’ pa Alpha Fraternity and a mem-

‘interest rate.
INTERIOR DECORATIONS

will be panelled. The basement.
{themselves will remain
i finished.

The stairs leading from the

un-

zation and the plans for the, deliver a quotation. Plans for
year. The members voted to ex- | future expansion of the society

tend membership in the Classi-| were also discussed.
cal Club to all those students; Professor Goodykoontz of the

who are interested in Graeco. | English Department will ad-
Roman civilization, rather than: dress the group November 18.
have a classical language re-} 77

quirement. i Dr. Ben Rice Lacy

Membership in Eta Sigma Phi. Speaks At Vespers
however, will remain contingent Dr, Benjamin R. Lacy, Jr..
upon demonstrated ability in chaplain at Hampden-Sydney
either Greek or Latin. College. will deliver the sermon
at Vespers Sunday night at 7:30
p.m. A graduate of Davidson,
j Union Seminary, and Oxford
University, Dr. Lacy

The majority of the meeting
was, devoted to a discussion of
the policies and programs spon-
sored by the Classical Club and|

E i i.
ta Sigma Phi Union Theological Seminary.

Lewis Leads
In State Senate

Phil Lewis, chairman of the Davidson delegation,
won the top honor of best debater in the Senate at the
North Carolina Student Legislature held in Raleigh, No-
vember 7-9. Davidson delegates were Charles Morris and
Lewis in the Senate and Dan McAlister, Jim Reynolds,
and Fred Lane in the House of Representatives.

Delegates from twenty-one |
schools within the state, rep-!
resenting both male and female,
Negro and white students, met
at the Capital Building in Ra-
leigh to consider mock legisla-
tion on both the state and na-
tional level. All schools were
invited to introduce bills at the
session, and these bills were] voted against. !
then placed on the agenda and! According to Lewis, “the in-
were taken up accordingly. ‘tent of this resolution was not

|

Lewis, who was elected presi-
dent of the Senate for one of
the meetings, was presiding and
was ineligible to vote on this

Representative McAlister voted
for the resolution, while Rep-
resentatives Reynolds and Lane

served; receive approximately 414-55
thirty years as president of interest on all funds over those
| provided by Dr. W. S. Patter.

There wilt be a fireplace in
the Living rooms, as well as a

-contractor is being used for
|the project. Mr. Floyd Ballard
has been employed by the col-,smaller one in the basements.
{lege to supervise the building.| The builders are taking ad-
jAs a result the court will bé; vantage of every opportunity to
buil much more cheaply than, provide additional parking
comparable systems in this part areas. The roads are being wid-
:of the country. ened, and parking areas are. be-
| These savings will be reflect*'ing provided in the center. of
ed in the rent. charges, which the court where houses cannot
will be assessed to cach fra- be built because of overhead
_ternity on the basis of ils mem-

bership.

power lines.
The cost of the- fraternity

A target-date of August 15.
{1958 has been set for completion

court will be loaned by the en-

dowment fund. The fund will

i

,of the court. As soon as each
‘house is. completed the in-
dividual fraternities may begin
decorating,

Each - fraternity will be per-
son and the late Mrs. Patterson,
in whose memory the court is}
being built.

Contrary to rumors, the col-
lege will not be making a pro-
fit on the court. True, the en- original condition.
dowment fund will collect in-! The new court is expected to'
terest on the money loaned, but|be in use at the beginning of!
this money could easily be in-'the 1958-59 school: year.

Davidsonians See

Much In Big City

other interior fixtures to be used.
in the new house, provived ‘walls |
or floors are restored to their

|

By BOB LATHAN ANO LAURENS WALKER
Davidsonian Managing Editors

It’s quite hard to put into a few words one’s impres-;

question. Senator Morris and! sions of the Big City. Immediately, one sees the faces of |ficer Ross Smyth, the adjutant:

:

the people. They are not the faces that we are used to
seeing, for they reflect the diverse backgrounds of the
people.

The tang of foreign language
is in the air. But one thinks that

1

The city is an education. |
Probably not so for the peo-!

mitted to move mirrors, wall-|
to-wall carpeting, paneling, and

the YMCA to the Religious Life., of Kappa Sigma Fraternity, He
Committee of the college for | js Regimental Operations Of
jstudy, but no decision Was i ficer in ROTC.

reached.

. BILL POMEROY is president

The committee composed of of Alpha Epsilon Delta, the
faculty members and" several honorary pre-medical fraternity;
j students felt that it is not sO and of the Honorary Fraternity
;much a question of voluntary) Council. He is president of Kap-

| within the realm of the college; per of Phi Beta Kappa.
to have communion services at/ :
alk. ' CHARLES STOWE is Regi-
; : mental Commander of the Da

Some. have felt that commun: yidson ROTC unit. He is also
ion should be given. to the stu- Inter-fraternity Council Rep-

{deAts at the church of their resentative for Kappa Sigma.

own choosing and by the clergy- |
GERALD WILSON was editor

man of that church. They do not -
feel that the communion has a of the 1957 Wildeat Handbook
and is assistant editor of the

| legitimate place in the college DAVIDSONIAN. He has held
vespers service. the publicity post in the YMCA
Cabinet and is editor of the

At further meetings of the Chapt r publicati f Bet
. . . apter publication o eta
committee in December this Theta Pi

subject will be discussed fur-
‘ther, but possibly no decision
will be reached if the commit. :
jtee does not find the need of im-
mediate action.

5

Fraternity.

The next tapping ceremony
for ODK will be held in the
spring, when both seniors and
rising seniors will be eligible
for admission.

Keithly Praises
Davidson ROTC

Col. Thomas G. Keithly, chief of the North Carolina
Military District, spoke with high praise of the Davidson
ROTC detachment after the completion of his brief fall
inspection tour on November 8.

Keithly remarked to Col.
Adams, Professor of Military

Scienee’ and Tactics, that he

found every phase of the opera- HIGHLY PRAISED
tion to be “superb.” He added: The new swagger sticks and

that this is what he “had ex. | the fit of the new wool uni-
pected” and consequently was forms also found favor with the
“not surprised”, No deficiencies | '"SPectors. The green outfits
were found. ; were purchased through the col-

Keithly, who took over his’ !¢8e by a system of bids and
command in 1956. noted that contract, from Wilson-Wright's,

although the briefing given last| w
year was very good that the one:
held Friday was “even better”.
CADET BRIEFING

The briefing was. conducted
during chapel period by the|
cadet regimental staff which in-|
cludes the student commander
Charles Stowe, the executive of-:

as much as 40 minutes of drill
time.

7.

<<

Edward Payne, the public infor-,
mation officer John Johnson. the|
operations officer Gary May-|¢
nard, and the logistics officer! ¥
Ken Forester.

Each of the cadets gave a four’

Three of them had ODK keys
to prove it.

The only panacea offered was
“never eat breakfast.” Several
concrete suggestions were giv-
en. Don't study all the time,
extra activities put pressure on
a man and make him study bet-
ter. “Seek to learn rather than
memorize material and just
feed it back to a professor.”

It is the two or three hours
of intense study by an inter-
ested student that make good
grades, not the long, long hours
of dreary memorizing. Never-

f

dent, that student. would more
likely be the one to make Phi
Beta Kappa. Whereas now a
great deal of learning by rote
of useless information is neces-
sary to conform to the grade
system and survive.

It was conceded by at least
one that the best educated man
is not necessarily the one with
the best average. Yet the great-
est common characteristic and
advice seemed to be develop-
ment of the art of studying.
Simple, eli!

Davidson’s delegation submit- to incourage intermarriage of|this is a real lesson in what an
ted. a joint resolution providing| the races per se, but to remove | American is. Sure, it sounds like
for the establishment of a Fed- an infringement upon the right|a history book to note the reali-
eral Science Academy. This was of choice of individuals in this!zation thot this is a diverse
passed by acclamation of both! particular field.” . country, but meeting it for the
Houses. Another controversial bill first time brings the fact home

Many interesting matters were | discussed before the House was in a way that can come only
taken up by the legislature,'that concerning the legalization | once.
some of which attracted nation- of prostitution in North Caro-| pp, ai

: e buildings must be men-
al attention. Perhaps the most ; lina. Senator Lewis had the fol-| signed. They" seem to be con-
controversial bill proposed was lowing statement to make on';:nous. The cement and stone
that introduced by the delegh- this question: “Reports of the are always with you, and once
tion. from Duke's Woman's Col-! passage of a bill legalizing in a while, one thinks they are
lege. It was a resolution calling | prostitution in the state of : ; be-

. . . laughing at mere people, be
upon all states which have laws| North Carolina are untrue. A cause they continue to exist
or constitutional provisions pre-| bill of this nature was intro- seemingly irregardless of time,
venting intermarriage of the|duced in the House purely for .
: A nas while the humans who built
races to repeal them. This meas-| debate in a blank period in the ‘
and use them pass from the
ure was passed strongly by both| agenda and never came to a f the city in what t
Houses, although Davidson’s| vote.” stage of the city in what mus
voting delegation was split even-| Other bills of note that came|Seem to them, a quite brief mo-
ly. (Continued on Back Pege)} | ment.

ple who live there, but for one minute talk on his phase of the|
who has ‘never met the forces regiment's functioning.

of urbanism face to face be- Col. Keithly noted with praise
ore. that no other ROTC unit in the’

COL. KEITHLY
The people, the buildings. thei N.C. Military District is run by; local clothier, and had been re-

language, all swirl into a thing

f the. cadets to as great an ex-; ceived onl Ww i
which seems to have shallow 8 Y 2 few Gays previous.

tent. A noon luncheon was held in

roots, when compared to our
life, but one realizes that, shal-
low or not, these, even more
than ours, are the roots of
America.

Several impressions were
gathered from conversations
with cabbies. Their unanimity
of opinion was remarkable. To
the question, “What do you
think of Mayor Wagner (Demo-
crat reelected just last week)?,”
one taxi driver replied in the
typical grating voice: “The way

(Continued On Beck Pege)

Among the items singled out: the Student Union with cadets
by Keithly were the extensive Stowe and Smyth, Col. Keithly,
use of student supply sergeants | C. Shaw Smith, and Col. Adams
and the practical experience | attending.
they gained in such logistic! During the stay. which ex-
work, tended from nine in the morning

Major Oliver, also a member until three in the afternoon,
of the inspection team, was com-|the team also inspected all of
plimentary of the method for, the unit's physical facilities and
checking-out weaporis, a method | attended two class-room instruc.
which. is handled by cadet ser-j tion periods.
geants. By comparison, he point-| Also comprising the team
ed out that the system of some|were two enlisted men who
schools using cadre personnel|checked all of the administra-
for the same purpose consumes tive and supply records.

|
