PAGE FOUR

ME

‘Hot Rod’ Hocsak

THE DAVIDSONIAN

sty.

Three universities and graduate
schools ate offering a number of
fellowships and scholarships this
year.

University is offering a large num-/the academic year of 1956-57.
ber of graduate fellowships and] acing during is first, meeting
1 an of 1957 on ‘this issue which ha
Pe ee eos only and fees received much student support:
oo. "the faculty decided to postpone
ber of Southeast ASE oh oipenae a8 definite decision until some-
tanging up to 31 800 and tuition time in the late spring or early
are available. tee arly in the meeting a motion
The Cornell Aeronautical Labo-j was made to leave degree require-
ratory is offering fellowships with) nents as they are now. This mo-
stipends of $1,500 plus tuition to/sion was defeated by a large ma-
candidates for the Master’s and- jority,
Doctor's degrees in Business and|" The faculty then listened to sev-
oo aes a nad Oe writing eral professors discuss the possible
ormation may be ha riting | changes in requirements, Twice
to the Graduate School, Cornell! yotes were called on some partic-
University, | 125 my pent menaca. ular system but each time the count
New Work. Fobeaaty 1 5h 957, Ons! was tied, 26 for and 26 against.
are due Dy oot ’ At this point several faculty
The Maxwell Graduate School of| members urged President Cun-
Syracuse University is offering in| ningham to cast the deciding vote,
public administration. four fellow-] put he declined, stating that he
ships paying $1,000 each plus tui-| felt a decision on such an impor-

s | Gift Fund Attains

Similar fellowships are available
(Continued from Page One)

in political science. In social and
political psychology one fellowship
there the family went to Vienna.
During the next weeks they were

carrying a stipend of $750 plus tui-
sent to Munich, Germany and from

‘$a

tion is offered. Interested seniors

FELLOWSHIPS ARE {FACULTY DEADLocks
gilLISTED FOR SENIORS| Tie Vote Stalls Change

In Degree Kequirements

The College Faculty has apparently said “no” at its Jan-
The Gra@uate School of Cornell| yary 8 meeting to any change in degree requirements during

Patriot Hocsak

(Continued from Page One)

Naturally, the German giants of
music are his favorites; Mozart;
Beethoven, Bach, and Wagner.
But he is on “speaking” terms
with all of the greats: Debussy,

Ravel, Vivaldi, Verdi, Sibelius,

and Greig being numbered amon
tant question should be as near] spon 8 6
uanimous as possible. A motion was :

English-speaking authors Aldous
Huxley, Jack London, Margaret
Mitchell and Mark Twain head
his list of preferred writers.

Steve and his entire family
thank Davidson deeply for their
new home here. In Mrs. Hocsak’s
new vocabulary is the phrase “I'm
very happy.”

p pester Field

THOUGHT

If a centaur marned
a mermaid fair,
What kind of children
would she bear?
Would they have hide
or would they have scales?
Would they have hooves
or long fishy tails?
Would they eat seaweed
or would they eat hay?

then made to postpone the decision
until a later date, and it was readi-
ly passed.

Several members of the faculty
stated after the meeting that they
felt a change in the degree requir-
ments was not iminent due to the
wide range of faculty disagree-
ment.

i Ee

FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1957

WCOrE 18 & OLESTERCO tenn’ mane. COPTeRNT tpeP twe COCA-COLA COMP +

sociology

should write to the Admissions It’s one of the

Dennis The Menace

Office, Maxwell Graduate School.
Syracuse University, Syracuse 10,
N. Y.

there they were flown by the
United States government to Camp
Kilmer, New Jersey.

problems of the day.

Spin a platter... have some chatter...

and sip that real great taste of Coke.
Sure, you can have a party without

Money from the Davidson Col-
lege Gift Fund has been used in
helping to equip the Hocsaks for
full-scale housekeeping in the lo-
cal community.

The University of Tennessee is
offering graduate assistantships in
physical education and. recreation.
Stipends range from $700 to $1,000
for the academic year.

Nothing On Young Steve

; By GRIER DAVIS
Davidson now has its own version of Dennis the Menace
in three-year-old Stevie Hocsak, Jr.
His appearance is almost identi-| pointing to the other boy and to
cal with that of Dennis: long, dis-|his own head and saying, “Me.”

hevelled blond hair. shining blue The idea was vetoed by the powers’
eyes, and a mischievous grin. His/ 1.11 4, (Mother was horrified), but | at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

inexhaustible energy and antics ; . : |
Stevie sat quietly in the chair.! Pp j Z Z .

are also sirniliar to Hank Ketchum's
chatting aomiably in Hungarian to!
the famous OPEN KITCHEN

Coca-Cola—but who wants to!

rerfeld

GARETTES

MORAL: When heavy thinking gets
you down, relax and take your
pleasure BIG with a Chesterfield!
‘Packed more smoothly by

Accu: Ray, it’s the smoothest
tasting smoke today.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By
THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

perverbial prankster. When Daniel

took a picture of the youngster.! Hood Norton.

Stevie tried, laughing gleefully, to] The community will have no

run Hank down with his tricycle.) noice but to adopt the ‘lovable!
“Menace”; but even if you don't!

Smoke for real... smoke Chesterfield?
$60 for every philosophscol verse accepted for publi- —
cation. Chesterfield, P.O. Box 21, New York 46, N.Y.

Otiscert & Myere Tobacco Co.

“Coke” is o ragistered trade-mark, @ 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Pedestrians beware!

Monday night as several boys
were visiting the Hocsak family
after Stevie had been put to bed,
he poppéd back into the room no
less than a_ half-dozen times,
armed with assorted guns and air-
planes.

Apparently oblivious to the dan-
gers and hardships that he and his
family have undergone, Stevie, in
his friendly manner seems to have
adopted the community already.

Several days ago his mother took
Stevie to the barber shop. Having
watched another boy get a crew
cut, Stevie decided to follow suit.

Cunningham's Future

Plans Still Pending |

“Took ‘a trip on a sailing ship

..” is a tune that is beginning
to have some real meaning for Dr.
and Mrs. Joihn R. Cunningham. In
accordance with the grant given by
the Board of Trustees last year
for an extended leave of absence,
the Cunninghams have decided to|
use this time, for a trip abroad.
But, as to their destination and the
date of departure, many unexpect-
ed difficulties have appeared.

“We first thought of a trip to
Italy, Switzerland, and Great Bri-
tain,” reported Dr. Cunningham,
“Then we decided a Carribbean
cruise would suit us better. As of
now, our plans are still highly
indefinite, but we are still con-
sidering sometime in early April
as a possible sailing date.”

COMPLICATIONS ARISE

Finding the five or six weeks
when they can leave has given|
the Cunninghams their biggest
problem. The marriage of their
son, Ray, in April; the many duties
that plague the life of a College!
Chief Executive; and the inability
of securing passenger accommoda.-

see a tricycle coming, watch your.
step. I
Stevie has a tractor too.

enw mn,

a ss.
ji Its the
1 buy of your %
‘ dreams! .-

1318 W. Morehead

Charlotte, N. C.

a

~

—_

GET A 12 LP ALBUM OF $1 98
MOOD MUSIC FOR ONLY

with each orie you buy at the regular price of
$3.98! Build your dream record library with
music by the orchestras of André Kostelanetz,

Percy Faith and Paul Weston on COLUMBIA
RECORDS
P

CHOOSE ALL THE ONES VOU WANT FROM THIS LIST. REMEMBER, HALF OF EVERY OTHER ONE YOU BUY 18 “on ust

ADA NOSTELANETZ OCL 167 Tacs

CCL 198 An Amariena In Paste

CCL 969 Modeme Butterfly

CCL 096 Ateneo

First of all, what’s it all about? What
does a fellow like John Jackson do
all day? In his own words, “I keep
in touch with the executives of many
different companies—advising them
on the use of their IBM electronic
data processing computers. I person-
ally consult with these customers,
and analyze their scientific and tech-
nical problems for solution by IBM.

Occasionally, I'm asked to write .

papers, and give talks and demon-
strations on electronic computing.
All in all, it’s pretty fascinating...
something new pops up every day.”
In other words, John is a full-fledged
computing expert, a consultant . . .
and a very important person in this

Colling on @ customer

coming age of automation through
electronics.

Since the IBM laboratories are
always devising easier and faster ways
to solve the problems of science, gov-
ernment, and industry, an Applied

What a MATHEMATICIAN

can do at IBM

Mathematics is an ancient but ever-advancing science that contains many
forms. It shouldn't surprise you then that it took some time before John
Jackson discovered the one brand of mathematics that seemed custom-
tailored to his ability and temperament. John is an Applied Science Repre-
sentative, working out of the IBM office at 122 East 42nd Street, N. Y. C.

The aircraft people decided that they
couldn’t afford to wait that long, so
they called in IBM. After discussion
with top executives, John helped to
map out a computer program that
saved the organization over 100 days

ad ,

Mepping ov? a computer program
of pencil-chewing, nail-biting arith-
metic: Later, for this same company,
John organized the establishment of
computer systems for aircraft per-
formance predictions . . » for data
reduction of wind tunnel! tests... and
for wing stress analysis. At the same
time, he worked with this company’s
own employees, training them in the
use of IBM equipment. John still
drope around to see that everything
is running smoothly.

Another service that John performs
is the constant reappraisal of each
customer’s IBM operation. Occasion-
ally, a customer may tie himself in
knots over a ptocedural “‘stickler.’’
Periodically, in fact, John brings

mathematical background in both of
those areas, It was not until he was
interviewed by IBM that field com-
puting whetted his scientific appetite.
A few months later, John launched
his own IBM career as an Applied
Science trainee.

Promotionwise, John has come a
long way since that time. He’s now
an Applied Science Representative in
one of the busiest, most responsible
offices in the IBM organization .. .
mid-town Manhattan.

With his wife, Katherine, and

daughter. Lisa, 20 months, and John,

Olscussing a problem with colleagues

Jr., 6 weeks, he enjoys his suburban
Port Washington home. He’s happy
and he’s satisfied. And then, too, John
knows a few vital statistics about
IBM ... such as the fact that the
Applied Science Division has quad-
rupled during the past three years,
and that in 1956 alone, over 70 pro-
motions were conferred. If ever a

tions before March have caused 10 Mod tor Love (Opers-lor-Orchestra) (CL 197 La Bebome Opare-far-Orebantry . - Science R tati:
more than a few complications to a frre Seite a ‘on One sue eae” cuss ceeake ow aan Pow Pete he’s loaned hin job and that's the IBM customers together... just to future held promise, here is one.
the overall plan. LR Ferg snd Bore The Oct Melia reat van Grereient , oces. Pen Paks Papp oca: fleet Manto end of it. At least once every two talk over what's happening in each e e e
Dy. Cunningham revealed that cum Caner Ocum Yous — Qcves anane Oca keytuaren Oe Woon months, he attends seminars to be © other’s business—how everybody else BM hopes that this message will help
the Board of Trustees, in order to Bgt me moro peu tetas ee ae get Kort unig: Oe ee tes updated on the latest developmentsin handled that old bugaboo in any to give you some idea of what a mathe-
be certain that he would not give octns meme CU Tt6 ee rome Kare BEL ee feats to the Chart Mens tow aces ry al engineering and operations research. industry ... details. matician can do at IBM. There are equal
up the trip, presented the “leave of Bam timated es Surdat LEI Caleeder Ov) SLES Amer meine, OCHO" Ree opportunities for E.E.’s, M.E.’s, physi-
absence” idea by the most direct o a pana Wakes EEL Ie Malet OCLs Fe Very Thawte co iat ne bts aeten Introduces new methods New field for Mathematicians cists and Liberal Are mero BN .
and uncompromising channel, that a ) Ree cece cr ta Hess ot Chote cum biter 5 oam om During the two years that John John is exercising his mathematical velopment, Manufacturing Engineering,
being Mrs. John R. Cunningham. Betis fjeteea time Seite ICE Tal Karuna Foventee CCL ote = Drenmer Aes feee tee Bt sou has spent with IBM in Applied Sci- know-how in a field that was prac- = Sales and Technical Services. Why not
“J am now feeling the constant D ? t d 1 ! Th ; “ie nS late - ence, he has guidedinnumerableIBM _ tically unheard of ten years ago. Even drop in and discuss 1BM with your Place-
P , tomers to new and better waye of now, this kind of work may be news = ment Director? hue can supply our
pressure behind the throne, and on elay: Iss ecial event ends Mare st} oar : ' brochure and tell you when IBM will
Tam certain that no ‘backing down’ . Dp h 1 ° doing things electronically. For ex- 0 yo John Jackson a lew next interview on your campus. Mean-
years back When he was an undef while, IBM will be happy to answer your

on my part will be allowed,”
laughed Dr. Cunningham. He went

on to add that he was reasonably

The

"" @ @ Marese Registvvatss All pricce are oupgneted thet

Parker-Gardner Company

ample: about a year ago, @ leading
aircraft manufacturer wanted to ex-
periment with a radically different
design for a nuclear reactor. Although

graduate at the University of Colo-
rado. At that time, he was considering
actuarial work or mathematical re-

questions. Just write to Mr. P. H. Bradley,
IBM, Room 8701, 580 Madison Avenue
New York 22, N. Y.

sure that all of the details would
the basic format had beenestablished, search. But Jobn liked the excitement
be worked out soon, and his and . ; INTERNATIONAL
, theprojectstillrequiredmanymonths and diversification of ecience and in-
Mrs. Cunningham’s travel plans 118 WEST TRADE STREET CHARLOTTE 2, N.C. of toil with mathematical equations, dustry and he wanted to use his IBM COnPonATion

would be forthcoming within the
next two weeks.

PHONE EDison 2-8257

OATA PROCESSING © ELECTRIC TYPEWEITERD © TINE EQUIPERENT © GELSTARY BROOUCTS ¢ SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS © SUPPLIES
