By LAURENS WALKER

Tuesday afternoon the College Faculty shattered a 120-
year-old precedent as they voted to revamp the traditional re-
quirements for the arts and science degrees.

Thus ended a long, uphill fight begun in 1954 and pushed
since by both faculty and students to secure revision in the
ruling which required four years $f language, including two
years of Latin or Greek, for an A.B. degree.

Acting in historic session, and after several hours of
deliberation, motion making, and voting, the Faculty decided
to award the A.B. degree to “those students majoring in de-
partments other than Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and
Physics.”

Science majors will continue to receive the B.S. degree.

IMMEDIATE EFFECT

The Faculty further decided that these changes would go
into effect immediately. Those members of the present Senior
Class who are not science majors will receive the A.B. degree,
unless they specifically elect to receive the B.S.

Meeting Tuesday afternoon after classes, the Faculty
was convened by President Cunningham. Dean C. J. Pietenpol
then presented to the Faculty the unanimous recommendation
of the Curriculum Committee.concerning the degree change.
This recommendation contained all the adopted points plus
two clauses which failed to pass the Faculty.

The defeated clauses proposed “that the language re-

DAVIDSON DATE
HAS HER SAY
(Page 2)

Within a matter of minutes after this picture was taken, the
college faculty voted to abolish the classical language require-
ment for an arts degree, which has stood since the college opened

Aautdsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

he

quirements for the A.B. degree be either some language
through course 32, or 24 semester hours in a combination of
two languages” and “that the major subject or subjects be
specified on the diploma.”

120 YEAR PRECEDENT

Working carefully, mindful of the 120-year precedent of
a classical language requirement for the A.B. degree, the
Faculty voted on each point of the proposal separately. One
or more substitute motions were offered for every clause
of the recommendation. Each of these substitute motions was
discussed and voted on.

The key vote of the afternoon came over the question
of when the change in requirements should become effective.
By this time, the mechanics of the change had been agreed
upon, and the only stumbling block which remained was the
question of to which classes the change would apply.

Three tie votes were taken on the question. The Faculty
seemed unable to decide whether the class of 1957. or of
1959, or of 1961 should be the first affected by the change.

Dean Pietenpol then took the floor, after one faculty
member had pointed out that if no date of retroactivity could
be found, the change was, in. fact, dead. The Dean discussed
the Curriculum Committee’s recommendation on the problem
pointing out that the Committee felt their solution to be fair
to all concerned. A final vote was taken, and the Committee’s
proposal passed by a margin of approximately ten votes.

(Continued On Page Four)

Progress In The Making

its doors in 1837. The new provision will apply to all present mem-
bers of the student body, though any man who qualifies for dif
ferent degrees under the two systems will be allowed his choice.

CATS IN CONFERENCE
TRACK TOMORROW

(Page 3)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 15, 1957

BEGINS FEBRUARY 22

New IFC Rulings
Run Hell Week

Fraternity Hell Week activities will be held during the
period between February 22 and March 2.

These are the dates set up by the Interfraternity Council
which will govern the activities of all fraternities in the for-
mal initiation period commonly called “Hell Week.”

IFC regulations concerning Hell
Week practices fall into seven
catagories. They are: dates for the
period, hours for informal initia-
tion, collective responsibility of
the fraternity, and an approved
schedule of events.

Also there is a clause urging
fraternities to plan constructive
Hell Week projects, as well as
provisions for the violation of
these regulations.

TESTS NEW RULES

IFC President Bunny Perkinson
emphasized the fact that this
year’s Hell Week would provide a
testing period for the new regula-
tions. If these rules work out well,
then they shall be adopted perm-

anently.

The crux of the first regulation
is that Hell Week shall fall be-
tween February 22 and March 3,
1957. Fraternities cannot initiate
on more than one Friday and one
Saturday of this period. Formal
initiation ceremonies are left to
the discretion of the individual
fraternities.

Fraternities may carry out their
pledge programs from the hours
of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., with two
exceptions. First is the Friday and
Saturday provision, and secondly,
pledge activities may be extended
until 10:00 p.m., on two other
nights during the period.

The collective responsibility of

(Continued On Page Four)

SIXTH IN SERIES

Players

Inc. To

Give “Henry IV”’

Players Incorporated, a celebrat-
ed repertory company of Washing-
ton, D. C., will present Shake-
speare’s “Henry IV (Part I),” Tues-
day, February, 19, at 8:15 p.m., im
Chambers Auditorium. This will
be the sixth event of the David-
son College Artist Series.

The Players are one of the finest

touring organizations in their field.
In the past seven years they have
travelled from one end of the
country to the other. Twice they
have appeared on the battlefields
of Korea, and twice they have per-
formed for the Department of De-
fense, in Europe. Last season they
performed Shakespeare in the
Arctic.

All of the group are graduates
of the Speech and Drama depart-
ment of Catholic University, in
Washington, D. C. Each member
of the group has had considerable
professional experience. One of
the most outstanding of the group
is William Callahan, who recently
appeared for 36 weeks in the
Broadway production, “Anastasia.”
Mr. Callahan will take the role of

| Falstaff in the production here.

Their presentation, “Henry IV
(Part 1,” combines drama and ex-
citement with humor and fun.

create a highly entertaining eve-

ning.

The Alpha Nu Chapter of Eta
Sigma Phi, national honorary clas-
sical fraternity, was reactivated at
Davidson College in special initia-
tion ceremonies in the Green
Room of the College Union on
Monday evening.

The occasion marked the cul-
mination of a semester’s effort to
re-institute. the dormant chapter
of one of Davidson's oldest honor-
ary fraternities. The effort began
this fall with the establishment
of the Classical Club, an organiza-
tion which petitioned Eta Sigma
Phi for a re-granting of a former
charter.

Eta Sigma Phi recognizes ex-
cellence in the study of the clas-
sical languages, as well as an ap-
preciation for the total culture of
Greece and Rome. Three David:
son College faculty members, Dr.
E. A. Beaty, Dr. George Labban, |
and Professor John Bailey,

ty.

Dr. Beaty was in charge of the
initiation ceremony, assisted by}
Dr. Labban. Fifteen members of |
the student body were initiated at
the Monday evening ceremonies.
These were Carl Cooper, Ben Far-|
ley, Bob Haywood, Steve Huntley,
Neil McMillan, Harry Paschall,
John Trotti, Randy Daniel, Grier
David, Jr., DeWitt Roper, Willie

Thompson, Carter Daniel. Bob
Groome, Tom Kernan, and Edward
Wilson, Jr.

This is the first honorary fra-
ternity to be added at Davidson
since 1951.

Dr. Carl R. Pritchett
Is Vespers Speaker

Dr. Carl R. Pritchett, former sec-
retary of the Davidson Y.M.C.A.
and pastor of the college church,
will speak at Vespers this Sunday
evening.

A native of Salisbury, Dr. Prit-
chett has, throughout his career,
probably spoken to more David-
son men than any other minister,
as local pastor, as platform speak-
er at student conferences, and as
a vespers and chapel preacher.

After graduating from Davidson
in 1930 and serving as Y.M.C.A.
secretary until 1932, Dr. Pritchett

entered Union Theological Semi-) -

nary where he received both his
Bachelor of Divinity and his
Master of Theology. During the
thirteen years that he was pastor
of the college church, he was

‘Winter Wonderland’ Is
Dance Weekend Theme

Midwinters dance weekend, with Woody Herman and
his Fourth Herd doing the honors, officially arrived tonight as
a fitting climax to Valentine's Day and the February full moon.

Approximately 450 dates de-; 2 ra vate
seended this afternoon and even- | '€F Wonderland motif in the dec-
ins: ween the usually leak cor- | OFations for the weekend. Liberal
sprinklings of icicles and snow fea-

ridors of Belk dormitory. Even}
under the slightly modified system | __ Comtinees On Page Four)

of the usual housing arrangements, T B aa 7 H

are |
members of the national fraterni-;

awarded a Doctor of Divinity de-
gree by the college.

x x

9 20 21
4 2% 2% 2 28

It’s Dance Time

In spite of exams and a month of the most miserable weather on record, Midwinters blew
into town tonight as Davidsonians went formal for the evening. A 500-strong passel of the South’s
prettiest girls and Woody Herman and his Fourth Herd promised a lively weekend.

Hocsak Tells Of Violence,
Bloodshed In Revolution

up arms against the Russians.

—the Editors)

During the night after the at-
tack on the radio station, I heard
| sporadic gunfire in distant parts
of the city. I didn’t yet know that
|} the Revolution had begun in earn-|
est
| In the morning when I got up, |
|I heard a lot of noise in the streets, |
| so I opened the window and looked |
jout. I saw a truek, full of young
|people waving rifles in the air,
moving slowly down the street,
toward the Parliament building. |
The people already crowding the
streets were shouting, “Don’t shoot
Hungarians, only ‘Ruskies'?"

I didn't go to work that day,
| believing that I should stay home.
‘with my family. Anyway, I prob-
ably couldn't have gotten through
|the crowded streets to my job.
The radio broadeasted continued |
governmental threats that “all the
rebels would be killed if they)
ididn’t stop fighting.” I decided
that the safest thing I could do
for my family was to move them to.

(Continued On Page Four)

witness account of revolt in
Hungary. Last week, Hocsak
traced the events leading up
to the October insurrection.
In this instaliment, the story
continues as the Rebels take

By ISTVAN HOCSAK

As Told to Laurens Walker
(Second of a Series)

|
(Continuing this week, Ist- |
van Hocsak gives his own eye,

DOWNTOWN BUDAPEST, shown diagramatically above, was
the scene of much of the fighting described by Istvan Hocsak in
his accompanying article. Centers of the struggle were the Parlia-
ment Building (A), the Secret Police Headquarters (B), the Hocsak
home (C), the Ministry of Agriculture (D), and the local Bakery (&).

|in conversation.

there were a few difficulties in
getting all the visitors comfort-|
ably settled in their assigned
rooms. However, once this mat-

ter was completed, events began
to take shape with their usual
rapidity

The first official item on the
busy weekend agenda was. -the
presentation of the lively two-act

way in 1951. The performance,
presented by the Red and Black

house this evening, despite the |

fact that all the stags of  the|
campus were absent, having al-
ready seen the play on Thursday
night. These stags were prepar-

ing their attack for the evening in
their own roles of “snakes.”
“WINTER WONDERLAND”
Following the play, couples pro- |
ceeded to Johnson Gymnasium,
where Woody Herman, the band-|
leader with the magic clarinet, led
his popular Fourth Herd in the tra-|
ditional dance favorites. There}
were exclamations over the “Win-

comedy, “Gramercy Ghost,” by
John, Ceci) Holm, a play which
had a successful run on Broad-|

Masquers, was given before a full]

Next Wednesday morning the
Davidson College Board of Trus-
| tees will hold its semi-annual meet-
ing here.

Following the morning session
from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., the trustees
| will attend a luncheon.
| After hearing the report of Pres-
dent John R. Cunningham, the
| Trustees will act upon his recom-
'mendations.

New members of the 55-member
Board are: Mr. George M. King
of Bristol, Tenn., one of the
twelve representatives of the
Alumni Association; Mr. R. K. Gre-
gory of Deland, Fla., St. John’s
Presbytery; Mr. C. L. Stanford of
Oakland, Fla., St. John’s Presby-
tery.

Also, Mr.

Harold B. Wahl of

| Jacksonville, Fla., Suwanee Presby-

tery; Mr. Roderick K. Shaw of
Tallahassee, Fla., Florida Presby-
tery; and Mr. Jerome B. Clark of
Fayetteville, N. C., Fayetteville
Presbytery.

KNOW LANGUAGES

Whale Explains Theory
Of Ministerial Training

Amidst the demand and intensi-
ty of Davidson College's Winter
Services, Dr. John S. Whale found
a few moments to relax in com-/;
parative solitude. The famed Con- |
gregational minister, author, and |
lecturer turned his attention aside)
from a prepared address to engage

“There ought to be some varia-|
tion in evangelism,” he observed. |
“Of course, all evangelists must)
say basically the same thing, but
they can vary their methods. Here
in America they all seem to do it
the same way.” i

CLASSICAL LANGUAGE
the

Approaching subject of |
Christian ministry in a more gen-|
eral manner, he brogued, “Get |

your grounding in Greek and

Latin. It's good discipline and it’s

the way to understanding. So many

preach the ‘blood’, deliver the
(Continued On Page Four)

Tea Dance Offered
During Midwinters

Plans have been laid by the Stu-
dent Union Social Committee for
a tea dance immediately following
the concert by Herman’s “Fourth
Herd” on Saturday afternoon.

The reception-type affair
promises quiet relaxing combo
musie for listening or dancing,
refreshments and a pleasant deco-
rative atmosphere.

It is the purpose of the College
Union to offer free of charge its
facilities to the entire student
body.

