FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1957

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE FIVE

Slants

“On

Sports|

By JOHN JOHNSON

CLOSE AND OPEN

The firing of the last shot by the rifle team late this
afternoon at the SC meet in Lexington, Virginia, marks the}
official close of the winter sports season. A whole new]
athletic world starts to unfold tomorrow as the tennis team
ushers in the spring events in a match with Wofford. Golf,
track, and baseball all begin sometime this coming week.

New Coach Tom Stevens offered a few comments about}
the baseball picture Tuesday afternoon as he surveyed the}
team at. batting practice.

SPOTTED

“We have an experienced outfield with Jim West,
Bob Campbell, and Donny McRee; they are all seniors.
The infield will be spotted with new men, probably
Killian and Hart.”

N.C.

By LARRY MEYER
The 20-game Davidson baseball schedule gets under’

way Tuesday, March 19, when
in Salisbury,
Supervising his team’s debut in

the Wildcats take on Catawba

;edge at short, and lettermen Shel-

jany lettermen via graduation, will

j}son, returning number one player,

ia al courts at 2

Courts Tomorrow At 2

By GEORGE RAMSEY
Tennis officially returns to the Davidson athletic scene
tomorrow afternoon when coach Dick McKee’s netters pop
the lid off the cap season in a match with Wofford on the

2 p.m.

who did not lose

The ton, defending conference champ-
ion,-in a two day series here on
March 22-23.

The Colonials edged out Wil-

liam and Mary for the league title

Wildeats,

season with a sopho-
John. Robin-

open the
more-studded line-up.

He interrupted the conversation to hit a grounder to
third baseman Don Comer, another senior, who fielded the
ball in a manner that gave the impression that he was un-
hampered by the leg injury that knocked him out of the latter
part of the football season.

When asked if it was McRee who was catching at the mo-
ment, Stevens answered affirmatively, and said he might
have to use the senior outfielder in that new position some
this season since neither of last year’s catchers had reported
for duty.

WILL APPRECIATE

Stevens grinned when the batter adjusted his new pro-
tective cap after being struck on the head by a ball that
glanced off the backstop. “That blow wasn’t much, but it
could have hurt him had it not been for that cap. Some of
the boys don’t like to wear them but they will appreciate
them when they get used to them.”

He stepped back and knocked another grounder to keep
the infield on their toes. “Watch this freshman shortstop,”
he said as Don Killian scooped up the ball and whipped it)
to first. “Undoubtedly Morris was good last year, but I think |
we have a replacement.”

The team opens their season Tuesday at Catawba.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

this ‘57 opener will be head coach|bourne Wallace and John Patter-|is the lone senior on the squad.|last spring, and these two squads
“WESTY” WESTERVELT displays his wegiili from the |Tom Stevens, who also serves as|son are battling it out at second. |The Columbia, S. C., stroker will|should again rate one-two, accord-
Southern Conference wrestling tournament. The 157 pound strong [head line coach for the football} Sharing chores behind the plate! again hold down the top position.|ing to “conch os
man became Davidson‘s first grappler to win the Best Wrestler (team. will be Captain Don MeRee and ao
‘ P a “ FOUR SOPHS
in Tournament Award and second to win a conference champion- The home opener will also be|Dee Green, another freshman. Mc .
ee : Behind Robinson are four soph- ee
sain against Catawba, being played|Ree, an outfielder by trade, will ont «

here on March 22
ering Lenoir’ Rhyne
Hickory, N. C., the ‘Cats swing
southward to take on the Parris
Island Marines March 29 and 30.
Sorely missed this. year will be
the crack double play combo of
shortstop Billy Morris and second

After encount-
March 26 at

——

FIRST IN SCHOOL'S HISTORY

Westervelt Named S. C.

Wrestler }sacker Buzzy Hope. Also missing
|will be Dyke Little at first, who

. | will probably be replaced by
|freshman George Hart. Little, a

Harold Westervelt was voted the most outstanding wrest-| righty, may be able to see some

ler in the Southern Conference meet and became the first! mound action.

| omores junior. Lettermen
Bob Huffaker, Dave Pearsall, John
Poindexter and the number one
JV playér of last season, Tom Me-
|Cutchan, comprise the sophomore
}contingent; Mike Martin is the

probably be used at both posts
As always, the mound staff is
the big question mark. Three port
siders and one right hander make!
up the pitching staff. Counted up-
on for top performance are David |

‘Pack Wednesday

The Wildcat golfers tee off in
their opening match of the sea-
son next Wednesday when they

Esand new - the Arrow
Windshield Jacket

Windproof, water repellent—and good looking. That's
Arrow’s all-new Windshield jacket styled in tattersall
checks, stripes and solid colors. Bi-Swing action
back gives freedom of movement. Elastic waist and
adjustable cuff and collar tabs for changeable spring
weather. See: cotton fabric, $12.95.

| ARROW

CASUAL WEAR

he alo, waved football in the fall.

Lent Sinemet %

Davidson grappler to win the coveted award in the college’s |

history.

The sturdy sophomore pinned During the regular season he
two opponents and decisioned ajwrestled in the next highest
third on his way to the 157 pound} bracket, 167 pounds, and had a

10-3 record. His losses were only
to non-conference foes.

He and Dave Fagg will compete
jin the Carolina AAU meet at Ap-
iplachian on March 22 and 23.
Fagg who plays football at 210

championship last Friday and Sat-
urday.

He became the second Wildcat
to win a conference weight divi-
sion; the first was Howard Me-
Fadyen who wrestled heavyweight

for Coach Charlie Parker's first}Pounds dropped to 177 for the
squad back in 1938. Southern Conference tournament |
Parker commented after |#"4 placed third in his division. |
Charlie Lampley at 147 pounds

wards, “Westy promises to be
one of the greatest wrestlers
Davidson has ever had. He is
the strongest boy for his size
that | have ever seen.” As
for his determination, the
coach added, “He is a terrific
competitor, always wanting to

won a number four position for}
Davidson.

Riflers Firing -In
S.C. Championships

go har: “
Westervelt’s accomplishment The Davidson sharpshooters left
all the more amazing in light of Thursday pv sionangye od te participate
the: fect that lie had never in the Southern Conference rifle

, mate F i xi
wrestled before coming here one atch held today in Lexington,

is

ye
year ago. Parker discovered his _ dain sin we
prize at last year's interfraternity sinsalle an wl cosine eA ge
meet. The chemistry major main- P, m Coe oP

a ternate. The five top s ‘ ,
tains a B plus average even though : 2 P scores of the }
starting six men were counted in

today’s competition.

Bob Alexander, Charlie Stowe, |
Cary Pickard, Don Rhame, Jack
Lohman, Topper Ruggles, and Joe |
Wearne all went with Capt. Ca-|
vano and Sgt. Lindsey to Lexing-|
ton.

|Graham

At third base Don Comer seems
jto be pretty comfortably situated.
| Preshman Don — fase the

Phi Delts Run Wild In

Winning I-F

By BOBBY PAGE hurdies and fourth in the 220
Romping for a 23 point margin| Yd. dash which was won by Tom-
over the second place team, two|my Rivers.
new records, seven first places,
and at least one point in each NEW RECORD
event, Phi Delta Theta captured | Brownie Thurman proceeded to

the 1957 LF track meet
day afternoon,

KAPPA SIGS
With Dave Warden taking
honors in the shot put and Paul
Barbee breaking the tape in the
100 yd. dash, the’ Kappa Sigs took
a 15-8 lead after four events. Paul
Biggers and’ Warden took thirds in

Wednes

the shot and discus, respectively. Chris Bremmer edged Jim Ham-
John Huie’s first in the high|>right by one-eighth of an inch
jump, Dave Hollingsworth’s two for first place in the broad jump
fourths in the throwing events,|to account for one-third of “Phi
and Marvin Bentley's fourth in|Gamma Delta’s total. Five of Beta
the 100 accdunted for the winners|Theta Pi’s nine pdints came on
points at that point. Charlie Rutherford’s first. in the
discus.

It was in the distance running
that the Phi Delts carried the day.
George, individual high
seorer for the day, proceeded to}
capture the 660 yd. run and the)
three-quarter mile event. — Bill
Cobb came home

first in the low

my iy

IVEY’S OF

Style and comfort
win in a breeze!
This smart Arrow Windshield jacket
_ belongs in every man’s spring wardrobe.
windproof—
gg tne Tape se

TES:

cotton, $12.95. Come in and see ‘em now!

CHARLOTTE

ts 0a

@ What’s all the shouting about? Flavor!
Full, rich flavor — in a filter smoke! Yes,
and Winston’s exclusive filter — a filter that

college

| break Bingham's 440 record of 1942}
by making the round in 544 sec-

does its job so well the flavor really comes
through to you. Here’s a filter cigarette

i, See Gee wat cee only other non-soph on the squad./faoe the North Carolina State
; : | Harry Broome, from Raleigh, N.| wojtpack at Raleigh
Moore. Dee Lide, number one on ' % : : Pack at Nalelgn.

C., is the only freshman working} ‘he Cats will get > night’s
the freshman team last year is|out with the varsity; he should 7 a ee oe Oe eee
the other hurler. } 2 a ee bai rest afterwards and then travel

The outfield is fairly stable see action during the campaign. to Winston-Salem to meet the
with veteran Bob Campbell in left | MISSING tough linksters from Wake Forest.
Don McRee in center and Jim| Notably missing from the Wild-| Monday afternoon the hopefuls
West holding down right field.|¢@t lineup is Semi Mintz, who last for the team shot qualifying
These three also have thus far in-| Yea" as a freshman played in the}rounds at the Myers Park Country
dicated that they will probably be|"Umber one _ position several|Club in Charlotte. Low for the
the main hitting strength. times. Mintz, taking a layoff fol-| qualifying round was Sam Sloan,

lowing basketball season, may see|who had a 72.

action later in the season. Veterans John Mackerole and

Davidson, a perennial high-rank-|Bueky Dennis followed with 77

ling power in Southern Conference| and 79 respectively
tennis, will receive an early indi-| Other scores for the
cation of prospeets for this year|}George Lyon and Gary

when they meet George Waine 80.

|
day were

Heesman

Track Meet

onds, and then added the most
time: saving link in the half-mile
relay to set a new mark at 1:39.3,
four-tenths of a second. better}
than the Kappa Sigma effort «in
1953. Bentley, Jimmy Weller, and
Rivers completed the relay squad.

Pi Kappa Alpha and Alpha Tau
Omega tied for sixth with nine

NEWTON QUANTZ, Kappa Sig, leaps through the air before

markers apiece, preceeded by| the eyes of intent spectators in an effort to qualify for the broad
Kappa Alpha with 10 and fol-| jump in the IF track meet held Tuesday and Wednesday. His
lowed by Sigma Alpha Epsilon] team with 20 points placed second to the champion Phi Delts with

with two. 43.

scores top marks for flavor !

y

smokers can enjoy! Get Winston!

R. J. AEYNOLOS
TOBACCO Co.,
WINSTON-SALEM, N. Cc.
