PAGE FOUR THE DAVI

Honor System

(Continued from Page One)

A. “I will not make a state-
ment right’ now.”

Q. “Are you in favor of drink-
ing on campus.”
so sure I'm in favor (of passage)| A. “I am not in favor of
right now. We can’t push it|/drinking on campus.” — Ginger Rogers. star of over
through too fast.” Questions then turned to fra-1, hundred top movies, will be

Q. “Wouldn’t it be better tojternities on the campus and toline honor Queen of the Caro-
have a concrete amendment to/the problem’ of increased eN-}ji,45' Carrousel in Charlotte on
discuss?” rollment. Thanksgiving Day.

A. “Yes.” PREFERENTIAL BIDDING '

Q. “Before Christmas?” Q@. “What do you think of| Miss Rogers will head the new iq ties”, This was the chant

A.“ An amendment must be| preferential bidding?” | Carrousel “Show” which will be o¢ the horde of victorious fresh-
tabled for two weeks. We must} A. “I feel that a smail fra- held after the 3 p.m. parade mon that paraded off the flick-
have time to discuss it.” ternity is better... I do notin Charlotte's show-place Colise- erball field late Monday after-

Q: “Where did: this idea ori-jfeel that preferential bidding um at 8 p.m. She will sing,- pgon,
ginate?” iis acceptable to the student‘'dance and put on short parts Winning the “sudden death”

A. “In my own mind,:in my | body now. I'm ..in favor of it.” play-off after the score had been
work on the council.” ' Q@. What do you think of the tied climaxed what appeared to

COUNCIL MINUTES ,plan to increase the enrollment be one of the most exciting

Smyth was questioned about‘ of the college? Freshman-Sophomore days in
reports that the minutes of the A. 1 think that we should in.
Council for the year he was crease it up to 1000 students,
secretary have not been com- but no more. This should take
pleted yet and entered into the place when the facilities are
books, He said that demands on adequate.
his own time had been the Smyth. explained that David-
cause for delay. and he plans son should take up some of the
to finish them up by Thanks- increased load of students and
giving. yet it should keep its small

He also reported that there college atmosphere. He feels
would be no action on a se that 150 additional students will
mester break this year because not change the atmosphere. The
the calendar was made up last.small-college atmosphere he
spring. He hopes for some feels is: “ore of .the main as-
change by next year. sets of Davidson.”

Q. “Do you feel that the Pres- CHIEF OBJECTIVE
ident of the Student Body should @Q. “As President of the Stu-
be a coordinator of student. dent body what one thing would,
opinion or an initiator of new’ you like to accomplish?”
‘ideas? A. vL- would like to be con- | Then the frosh’s mighty men.

A. “He is more a coordinator. sidered as a representative of headed: by. 220-pound Scott Lacy.
It is more my job to do what the student body and a coordina- and will be accompanied by the surprised) everyone by: uproot-
the student body feels (should tor." Smyth added that he had sensational new orchestra head ing the sovhs in the tug of war.
be done) than to push my own no definite project in mtind ex-:ed by Bill Snyder and his Magic There were four separate at-
ideas through.” cept for setting up a standard piano.

Q. “De you have a list of ob- trial procedure in the Council. '
jectives?” <that you would like @Q. “Do you think there will
to accomplish as President.) be any outstanding basic issue

A. No, so many things come in the campaign for the student
up during. the year. Just the. body officers next. spring?” ~
revision of the Honor system. ' A. “No. unless it involves the

The discussion turned to the honor system or drinking rule.
regulations of the school con- [ don't see any right now.”
cerning drinking. He explained @. “What are your personal In addition, Miss America
that there could be no drinking plans for next year?" 1957. Miss Marion McKnight will hopes alive.
or possession of alcohol on the A. “I have two years or six! appear along with the 1957 Card- This set the stage for the

Carrousel Features
Ginger Rogers

By CLAY ROBERTSON
Davidsonian Reporter
“No coats and ttes; No coats

year marked only the second
time in which the sophomores
were forced to go down in an
embarrassing but unavoidable
defeat.

The sophomores jumped off
to a quick lead in the field-day
events as Brownie Thurman
scampered across the finish line
of the 440 yard dash some 20
yards ahead of his closest rival.

The freshmen, however.
, bounced back to what appeared
to be a comfortable lead. Ed
Kizer and Ed Garrett rang up
‘scoring honors by placing first
and ‘second. respectively, in the
100 yard dash.

|
ee ,

we

GINGER ROGERS

ning three of them.

The second year ‘men. how.
ever, were not to be outdone.
They came roaring back by
winning both the 80 yard shut-
tle relay and the three-legged
race. Only a tremendous finish
in the wheel-barrow race by
George Kirkpatrick kept frosh

On the same show will be
the Hegerman: string band in
concert and drill with Frankie
Richardson. former movie. star.
The band is an annual Mum:
mers Parade Winner in Phila-
delphia on New Years Day.

just .a number. quite a contrast
from the usual good-natured,
obsequious type we are general-
ly accustomed to down South..
In some instances, they were |
el very reluctant to refill the water
a! Slasses when requested and al-
so urged one to order in a hur-
ry. They became extremely!
peeved if you could not decide’ ker,
what you wanted or if you|Diocese of North Car :
changed your mind. visit St. Alban’s Episcopal 5°" represented the negative.
One time. when iced tea was Chapel at the 8:30 a.m. service Judging the debate were Pro-
ordered the waitress snappily | this Sunday. fessors Max Polley and Ray-
;replied, “We don’t have tea, He will preach and administer 0nd Tvson. The negative team
‘son, don't you know this is|Confirmation. Visitors are wel-.0f Chapin and Robinson was
winter?” None seemed to have come. judged the WIANATS. | Lo
ever heard of or seen grits. . Euphony, the society 8 Titer.
A very unusual sight was ob- The Canterburg Club will ary publication, will make its
served in one of the cafeterias. meet on Sunday evening at 8:30 fiTst appearance of the year
A Negro woman was seen hurl. in the Union Blue Room. prior to the Thanksgiving he i

Episcopal Bishop

campus, nor should a student be- months with Uncle Sam. pre- linas’ Carrousel Queen, Miss tact and deciding event — the
under the visible influence of ferably six months. I've applied Carolyn Willis and the Car- fickerball game. The freshmen
alcohol. The maximum penalty for a Rhodes, but I can't say, rousel Princesses. The 1958.
for violation of this is suspen- anything- about that.” Smyth Carolinas’ Carrousel Queen will ®
sion. plans to go on to school and also be named at this show. Fumenean Society
Q@. “What do you think of study law with the idea of go-| Tickets to the show are 90 .. °
after dance parties?” ing into politics or business. ‘cents general admission and re: Holds First Debate
served section $1.80. They are, :
: ° on sale at the Carrousel office The Eumenean Literary So-
Big City at 120. E. Third Street, Char- ciety met Monday night, Novem.
lotte. N. C. ber 4. with President Tom
(Continued from Page One) Thrailkill presiding. The pro-
I look at it, they’re all crooks gram was a debate entitled. “Be
in this town. it resolved that the YMCA is an
“They either carry guns ilk unnecessary organization on the
the ones who shot Anastasi Inspects St. Albans Davidson campus.”
(Albert Anastasia, president of:
Murder, Inc. who was killed in
N.Y.C., by machine gun oo

The Rt. Rev, Richard H. Ba. J0¢ Bell and Ray Atkinson
Bishop-Coadjutor of the spoke for the affirmative: while

recently while sitting. a bar. olina. will Lloyd Chapin and Dave Robin-
ber’s ‘chair) or they don't carry
guns, like Wagner. Why, the
other day, they passed a law
making Negroes move into the
same apartment house I'm in.'
It’s terrible.”

Another one stated that one
and a half million Puerto Ri-:
cans and 500,000 Negroes had
immigrated to New York since!

“

‘ . Jays.
1947 and yet the population of '"8 3 deluge of profanity and —_ ee —_———
the city did not increase in the’ Vulgarity at the white proprie-
last. decade. _tor who contentedly sat back Pre
He estimated that within the! 2%4 listened to the words which 00 $ ore Or Ss
next ten years the population could be heard: clearly all over bes G
Id b 70% P j. “Me Place.
tang and Negroes. All this points toward the old MONDAY
“Everybody seems to be mov- S4¥iné that you can get a 8:45 A. M. to 10:00 A.M.
ig out of town. I'd get on the | Southerner out of the South. but 2:30 P.M. to .3:30 P. M.
bandwagon, too, if I had the | YOu can’t get the South out of
chance.” : _a Southerner. TUESDAY
> When asked what he thought . 1 . 12:00 A.M. to 12:50 P M-
about the Dodgers and Giants! Bill Dole’s Wife Is 2:30 P.M. to 3:30 P. M.
leaving to the West Coast, one “=
man answered, “I’m glad to see Presbytery m Offic 10 l WEDNESDAY
them go. It's the best thing for .1.c4eq President of the Women. 8:45 A.M. to 10:00 A. M.
the teams. You know, they © ecte esident of the Women
didn't get much support here.. Pt the cn ni of concord Pres THURSDAY
‘Besides, there’s only one good the organization in "the me 12:00 A.M. to 12:50 P. M.
staying with. wore and they're Presbyterian Church, Concord, 2:30 P.M. to 3:30 P. M.
One cabbie who said he had Mice. Novy Big a was elected FRIDAY
peen Guatione’ in North Caro-' corresponding Secretary and 8:45 A.M. to 10:00 A. M.
phatie. in. that Negroes were| “® Presented with an Honor.’ 230 PM. to 3:30 P.M
treated “much better in the|7*¥ Life Membership. SATURDAY

South than they were up North.
I don’t see why they ever leave,
they have a far better deal
down there.

“Me, I’m for segregation.
Hell, the ones who make the
most noise about integration are
the ones, like Wagner, who live
in their comfortable estates
outside the city and never have
to worry about living in the
same apartment with them or
having their children sent to
mixed public schools.”

The service in restaurants and
cafeterias was noticeably poor.

11:30 A.M. to 12:15 P. M.

DANCE WEEKEND!
"FRESHEN THE IMPRESSION”

BRING IN YOUR

TUX -- TUX SHIRTS
AND SUITS

— FOR —

FIRST RATE CLEANING

Lewis Leads

(Continued From Page One)

up before the legislature were
a measure calling for the repeal
of the right to work laws, which
was defeated, and a bill pro-
viding ‘for the establishment of
a program for mentally gifted
children and a resolution con-
demning Governor Faubus for |
his action in Arkansas, both of |
which was passed.

Jim Reynolds and Dan Me-.
Alister will represent Davidson |
The waitresses typified the busy|on the Interim Council,  the_
hustle of the city and the North, body which carries on business
in general. They seemed always | between the annual sessions of
to be in a rush and regarded;the legislature. Reynolds was!
the customer in a sneering,| elected vice-president of this
abrupt manner as if he were! group.

ATTENTION

; PRE-MED SENIOR

The world’s largest exclusive manufacturer of microscopes

offers qualified student a splendid opportunity to function
as Campus Representative.

ackson Cleaners

Appl
REICHERT INSTRUMENTS OPPOSITE THE GULF STATION
$2 Beaver Street, New York 5, N. Y,

DAVIDSON, WN. C.

Frosh Victory
| Dissolves Court

the history of the school. This:

tempts. with the freshmen win:

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1957

THIS WEEK IN
DAVIDSON

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16
7:00—Movie, “Pandora and the Flying Dutchman,”
Union Ballroom.
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 17
7:30—Vespers—The Reverend Benjamin Lacy, Jr.,
Hampden-Sydney College.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19
7:30—Football Fiim—Davidson versus Richmond,
Union Ballroom.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22
8:00—Movie—‘“Merry Widow”’-—Union Ballroom.

RITA LIKES DC ‘ATMOSPHERE’

By FRANK TAYLOR

The Club's next meeting.| Wednesday night in Chambers
which is scheduled for Decem-' Auditorium a beautiful woman
ber, will take up a similar sub! stepped in front of an audience
ject of importance and inter- of over five hundred waiting
est. to the whole student. body.

All students are invited and
encouraged to attend.

DSONIAN

IRC Considers Two |
Views Of Algeria

The Alegrian problem was dis-
cussed from the French and
nationalistic points of view at
the first meeting of the Inter-
national Relation’s Club held
Tuesday night, November 12.

The two sides were present-
ed by Maurice Ritchie and Jim,
Sell, respectively. A question
and answer period followed in!
which the members and visitors
participated.

The International Relations,
Club began its year successful-
ly with this program dealing:
with one of the most crucial
problems that the world has
faced since 1954.

|
|
'; scored late in the second quart-
er and again midway through
the third period to take an im-
pressive. 13-0 lead.

: But the sophs rebounded to
‘make the score 13-6. Then, with
‘40 seconds remaining in the
game, Newt Quantz scampered
.54 yards to paydirt, the extra
point was good, and the regula-
‘tion game ended 13-13.

In the “sudden death" play-
‘off. each team carried the ball
four downs. The frosh worked
with short passes to gain thirty
yards, while the sophs could do
nothing against the = sturdy
freshmen defense. Henry Good-
win himself intercepted four
soph aerials.

By defeating the sophomores,
the freshmen dissolved the
_Court of Control and nullified

‘the Freshmen Regulations.
i

there. She appeared on “The
Telephone Hour" last Monday
night on a coast to coast broad-
cast. On Tuesday she began a
month long tour of which Da-

i le. Th ; h . | vidson was her second perform-
people. Mere was a char ming ' ance. Her tour ends on Decem-
smile, a sparkling of the eyes

and Rita Streich had won the per 18 wren she appears on
heart of Davidson. Streich expects to be back in
I had the opportunity of inter. Europe just before Christmas.
viewing Miss Stteich after her: She was very impressed with
stimulating performance. She Davidson and said, “the atmos-
said she was in a “daze”. She|phere here is wonderful.”
-seemed very happy and excited’ She is a charming woman,
over the reception given her. and in the words of one David-
Miss Streich appeared ,recent-.son student. “We were very
ly in San Francisco and Losjfortunate to have an artist of
Angeles for the opera season} Miss Streich’s calibre.” *

ry

|

|
!

Saturday Classes
Must Meet Friday

Regular Saturday classes are
scheduled to meet on Friday
morning. November 22. Regular-
ly-scheduled Friday afternoon
classes will meet as usual. .

This change is being made be-
eause there will be two less!
Tuesday - Thursday - Saturday
classes than Monday. - Wednes-
day-Friday classes unless such

a change is made.
i}

All Freshmen Regula-
tions have been termi-
nated as a result of the

Freshman win in the
annual Freshman-Sohp-
omore Field Day. The
Court of Confrol has
been retired for the
year.

by Dick Sibler

‘

“LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS

ris ii

Culture In Charlotte || (|

“ill
i!
Nov. 15 (Fri.--HOCKEY, Charlotte vs. Johnstown,

Coliseum.

16 (Sat.) Harlem Globe Trotters, Coliseum.

16 (Sat.}—Kiwanis Sing, David Ovens Aud.

17 (Sun.) Jimmy Dean Show, Coliseum.

19 (Tue.) HOCKEY, Charlotte vs Washington,
Coliseum.

20 (Wed.)—Boxing, Coliseum.

20 (Wed.)}—Charlotte Symphony Orchestra,
David Ovens Aud.

22 (Sat.)—Rock 'n Roll Show, Coliseum.

24 (Sun.)}\—HOCKEY, Charlotte vs. Philadel-
phia, Coliseum.

25 (Mon)—Scottish Black Watch, Coliseum.

26 (Tue.}—HOCKEY, Charlotte vs. Clinton,
Coliseum.

27 (Wed.)}—Carrousel Ball, Coliseum.

29 (Fri.—HOCKEY, Charlotte vs. Johnstown,
Coliseum.

i

<a Abt PO. Bes Efider Kens

° _
0 . KEY, Charlotte vs. Joh , | “VOUR'SUBSTITUTE HERE TELISME YOUR STUDENTS AKE QUITE
° aaa BY, Charlotte vs. Johnstown CT ER ee Bur iNey’LL PROBABLY TIRE OF HER”

Live Modern! Here's News...

U.S. Patent Awarded To
The GM Miracle Tip —

_ oily

seas

Only LM has it

“This is it! Pure white =

inside pure white outside
for cleaner, better

Get full exciting flavor
plus the patented Miracle Tip

x
You get with each L&M cigarette supe
the full exciting flavor of the Via
Southland’s finest tobaccos. a

You get the patented Miracle Tip
... pure white inside, pure white
outside as a filter should be for
cleaner, better smoking. The pat-
ent on the Miracle Tip protects
L&M’s exclusive filtering process.
L&M smokes cleaner, draws
easier, tastes richer.

Live Modern... Smoke [M!

ZA

oe
BUY ’EM BY THE BOX OR PACK

Crush-Proof Box (Costs no more)
Handy Packs (King and Reg.)

Your assurance of

the Southiand’s finest tobaccos

Every package of L&M’s ever
manufactured has carried this
promise: “A blend of premium
quality cigarette tobaccos including
special aromatic types.”

