FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1957

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Action above shows Joe Milner (52) and Dave Hollingsworth (40) in position to tip in
two points for the Wildcats in their 94-50 thrashing of the College of Charleston. Semi

Mintz (10) is the other Wildcat moving in on the play.

-——«

Wood Captains Intramural:

Catawba Falls Twice; Wal
"Cats Own 4-2 Mark

By BOBBY PAGE
Davidsonian Sports Writer
With four early season wins tucked away, Davidson's
basketball Wildcats approach the 1957 Carrousel

Tournament with its best record in recent years

Wins over the College of
Charleston, Wofford and two! been an entirely new story
over Catawba have offset. the Playing at two-day inter-
two losses at the campaign's be vals following, Davidson
ginning to Wake Forest and  @umped College of Char-
Georgia Tech feston 94-50, setting a new
Besides sporting a winning record victory margin, up-
record, ft change has| %* Wofford, 67-58, edged
taken place within the scene Catawba in overtime, tinal
Coach Tom Scott has secured
and’ already become pleased! #
with the assistance of the ex-
Demon Deacons’ star, Ernie
Wiggins, who has taken over
junior varsity — responsibilities

and partial duties on the varsity
level.

Introduced to the attend-
ing portion of the student
body preceding the clash
with Catawba last Monday,
Wiggins received a warming
ovation from not only the
students, but our loyal sup-
porters of the Red and
Black.

ERNIE WIGGINS

As expected, .Dave Hollings

; Worth and Semi Mintz are set All were played on the local
il Team lting the pace in the scoring, planks.’ The Indians also
im ' , } ‘eolumn for the Cats, ‘but are fell 47-45 Wednesday night
receiving surprising aid from , at Salisbury.
By HENRY RAMSEY — {Sophomore John Huie and) Winless in six outings in the!
I-F Sports Writer Freshman Bill Shinn in re-| Carrousel event, the Cats carry
An All-Campus Flickerball Team, elected by the late Split bounding and floor play a new spirit, coach and record
top nine men from each fraternity team, is made up of, Huie has established himself into the first round — against
" d' On Weekend Trip as a top rebounder as well as! Louisiana Tech (alias Jackie
the men showing the greatest amount of ability an the: fastest: man on the squad:| Moreland. University)
sportsmanship throughout the entire flickerball tourna- Shinn. has proven to be as: dead-| Yeaf's event
ment. Sy TOM SMITH ly a shot as ex-great Hobby Two-time champions, Wake
: : receiving in most of their The Wildeat swimming team,, Cobb by hitting on better than Forest did not re-enter because
Bare: aed, Sat: Sa hee games. ' funder thé guidance a Cai 65 ver cent of his field goal at of a new rule that limits the
orary captain of the team by George Thompson and Captain tempts thus far. He is rapidly) number of games an Atlantic
virtue of receiving the greatest SECOND TEAM Fritz Russell, travel to Lexing-| gaining experience under the Coast Conference team — can

ton, Virginia, tonight where they

number of votes. Named with} 6), the second team were

Wood to the first team were Skeeter Bellamy, SAK; Max, Meet. VMI Saturday afternoon |

Raiph Bright, SAE; Shellbourne| Bryan, Phi Delt; Marvin Bent- 29d the Washington and Lee | bounding.
swimmers on Monday. Both |

Wallace, KA; Roger Bates, Sig-| ley, Phi Delt; Allen Moore, Sig-
ma Chi; Don Killian, Sigma!ma Chi; Dave Pearsall, Kappa
Chi; Ed Lewis, ATO; Don Me-| Sig; Bill Patton. ATO; Dee Lide,
Queen, Kappa Sig; Dave Page, Pi Kapp; Locke Carter, KA; Tim}
KA; Otty Lynn, Kappa Sig. Teachy, Sigma Chi; Bill War- } outstanding swimmers
Bright, Bates and Lewis lick, Phi Delt. | Last Friday the Cat splash-
stood out mainly for their Seven men received honorable| men traveled to Williamsburg, |
passing ability during the en- | mention also in the voting. They | Va.. dropping a disappointing
tire season while Wallace, were Sonny Ferguson, KA;) one to William and Mary by a
Page, and Lynn added de | Richard Reiger, Sigma Chi; Bill... of 5942. Bad form and |

ithese teams will provide strong)
‘opposition for the Cats due to}
the return of many of last year's

fense to their talents in (Davis, Beta; Bob Crittenden, | é
gaining recognition. Killian Pika; Mac Henderson, Kappa | condition, combined with the op-
and McQueen were noted Sig; Jim Sell, Sigma Nu; 0z|Position’s strength in the div-

jing and medley, both individual

Keown, Pi Kapp.

storting pass-

for their

}

Trouble-free
weekender—
this wash ’n’ wear

|

Arrow

Off for the weekend? Here’s
a shirt that combines rare good
looks with amazing handiness
—the Arrow Glen in wash ’n’
wear Dacron* and cotton.
Collar stays are stitched in,
permanently and invisibly.
They just won't get lost. See,
too, our Drake button-down
model. Your choice, in white
or solid colors, just $7.95.
All silk tie $2.50.

Cluett, Peabody & Co., Ine.

ARROW—

first in fashion
SHIRTS + TIES

|

|

|

*Dupont's polyester fiber

They’ re here in favorite
Arrow designs!

Come and see our selection of trouble-free,
wash ’n’ wear shirts, the Arrow Glen

and the Arrow Drake—offered with
regular and Link Cuff. Don’t delay.

Look in before the campus pace setters

buy our entire supply.

| following night against Georgia

| was

which

| Hudgens
finished well

the seventh and eighth weekly
DAVIDSONIAN Football Guess-
ing Contests, the final contests
of the year. ‘

picked the greatest number of

play. Wiggins was one of the
main cogs in the gold and black
machine that
Auburn, . and
year’s event

boards to aid in one of David-

son's all time weaknesses of re-
Florida in last
Center Joe Milner round-

ed into his own against Ca-

dumped Colgate,

BY
GEORGE RAMSEY

1-F ATHLETIC COUNCIL?

One of the perennial topics of controversy around
the campus is the interfraternity sports program. If it’s
not the question of eligibility of a varsity athlete for a
certain intramural sport, it’s the inconvenience of having
a tournament at its scheduled time, or the question of

rials Of I-F
wim Meet Staged

By HENRY RAMSEY

The swimming tournament, yarsity competition in the intramural. scoring

second in the Inter-Fraternity ries s ; ‘
| rhis writer by no means can suggest a cure-all for
ports program, got off to a ; ; me 0

splashing start on Tuesday the sports program, but I will try to make a few con-
night with ten teams managing Structive comments in the hope that they will promote
to qualify in one or more of thought directed toward accomplishing some benefit to
the eight events the program

" : 5 ur stroke “ . . 95

ht 2 si Pe * aoe First of all, I went to the “brains” of the whole pro
vent lexander, SAF farti " " :

ib 2 ee _. gram, Coach Heath Whittle, the director of intramurals,
Beta; and Bremmer, Phi Gam eh
were the top three qualifiers who has been accused in some corners of exercising
with Alexander's time of 33.6 monarchial powers in the program

seconds. in top. place Driver, "

: * e e

Phi Delt; Cobb, Phi Delt: and

Hill, SPE, were the top three .

in the 50-yard brea % stroke Managers Decide

with a time of 39.0 seconds by Whittle was quick to assert that “I let the boys de-
ve a cide what we're going to do.” He explained that each year
agate i entager riba the sports managers meet to choose the various sports
by Bremmer. Phi Gam. with Which will be included in the program for the year, and
Ray. Phi Delt, and Kirkpatriek, to go over the by-laws, which govern the program, for
Sigma Chi, in the second and. possible changes.

jthird qualifying positions. The Later meetings are held by the sports managers to
(SOyard free style was led PY determine the dates and pairings for the various tourna-
|/Ray, Phi Delt. with Andrews,

Phi Gam, and Pharr, SAE, tak ments.

Although Coach Whittle allows the sports
managers much freedom in running the I-F pro-
gram, it seems to not a few of us who have
thought about the matter that he has largely
made the decisions for the program, with the
sports managers serving in an advisory capacity.

The shoe, however, seems to be on the wrong foot.
The fraternity representatives should be the administra-
tive and legislative power of the program, with Whittle
as adviser. The guidance of a member of the Athletie
Department, such as Whittle, who is willing to devote
his time to the program, is needed to coordinate the
activities under the supervision of the Athletic Depart-
ment. We must recognize here that, without the interest
shown by Coach Whittle, the LF program would not have
been possible.

ing second and third places
The Phi Delt team took first
the 200-yard relay with
time of 1 minute 56 seconds
iwhile the KA and SAE teams
placed second and third, in that
order. A. top time of 589
was set by Andrews,
Phi Gam,. in the 75-yard in
dividual medley with Weeks,
Beta, and Morgan, KA, in the
second and third slots

The Phi
first in the
with

jin a

seconds

Gams took another
150 yard medley re
time of 1 minute,
Second and third
taken by the
Sigma Chi

in
ane

lay a
seconds
positions were
SAE team and. the
team, in that order. In the 25
yard free style, the KA's
took first while the Sigma Chi’
Kirkpatrick took second. Mor
gan, KA, was third with a time
of only 4 seconds slower than
Jones’ winning 12 seconds

The finals. will be held on
Tuesday night, December 17, at
7:30 P.M

if

Jones * e e

Comparable to IFC

I therefore propose, leaving the way open for sug-
gestions and modifications, an Interfraternity Athletic
Council, similar in organization and function to the Inter-
fraternity Council.

Whereas the IFC governs the social activities of the

tawba, Monday, when Mintz
discovered himself short on
accuracy and the 6 6”
junior tipped in 20 points
on nine field goals and two
free throws.

On December 2, the Cats
closed a 20-point spread to two
| points against Wake Forest and

\almost spoiled Bones MeKir

Wednesday night the David-
son matmen opened the. 1958
wrestling season with a match
against the University of North

ney’s debut as head mentor at) Caroling. Although the Wild
the new Baptist Hollow, But the! oat. Jost 1612 in a rugged
Deacs went into a zone defense; nateh, Coach Parker said that

and salvaged a 68-61 win

he was pleased with the over
Flatter than a flounder on the

all performance of the team.
In the opening bout of the

Tech in Atlanta, the Cats suf- match, the 123-pound division,
fered a 74-52 merciful gob Schacter of Davidson was
| Seoumetne. Since then it has pinned by Curt Champlin of
eats isi Sa ac Carolina in two minutes, three
and relay, toppled the Cats seconds

In the 130-pound = division

T
— a ‘Henry Rhyne pinned Davidson's

Saturday, however, the for-

tein f tion’ ital R. D. Hall

es Oo our nations capita ar

lsmiled on the team as they Milton Gee lost the next
yi match for Davidson in a close

traveled there to meet Catholic’ d
University, coming out on the!
better end of a 49-36 score. Due
to disqualifications the issue
in doubt until the last
event, the 200-vard freestyle re-
lay, which gives seven points to

ecision to Carolina’s Perrin
Henderson

The tide began to turn in the
Cats’ favor in the 147-pound
class Charlie Lampley

cisioned Tar Heel

de
Gary

as

Carolina Matmen Take
Cats In Opener, 16-12

fraternities, the IFAC would supervise the athletie
activities of the Greeks.

This delegation to the students of running the pro-
gram may be paralleled with the turning over to ad-
vanced cadets the administrative and operational fune-
tions of the Davidson ROTC regiment several years ago,
which system has proved very successful.

The athletic council would be comprised of
members regularly elected by each of the frater-
nities. The members of the council would elect
such officers as deemed necessary to insure
efficient operation. In addition to a president, a
secretary may be chosen for such matters as
keeping the members informed of meetings (a
headache which Coach Whittle says he would

Cooper
George Rhyne then gave the
Wildeats three more. points as
he decisioned J. W. Welborn in
the 157 pound class
Strongman “Westy”
velt won his twelfth
match as he put the
contention, decisioned Carolina's
167-pounder, Ken Hoke
Wildeat 177-pounder

Wester
straight
Cats into

Ritchie

King, although wrestling well, | glady concede), and a treasurer may be chosen
lost. @ close decision to Dave should the council decide to engage in financial
— . endeavors.

Captain Dave Fagg won the ;
final mateh for the Cats’ as’ he Regular meeting dates, preferably once a month,
decisioned Rob Boyette, 7-1, in| Would be established in line with the policy of similar

The IFAC would draw up
based on

the heavyweight devision
Coach Parker is still looking
for prospective wrestlers in the

organizations on the campus
a body of rules for the intramural program,
the present by-laws.

lower weight classes, as this -

seems tobe the Cats’ major Students with suggestions would be able to carry

weakness them to the various council members with the knowlege
The matmen -mect Pfeiffer!/that the policy of the I-F program is decided by their

next in a home match Tuesday gwn student representatives, thereby eleminating much

7 unwarranted blame thrust on Coach Whittle.

the winner
The determined relay team was
not to be denied, however, and)
freshman George Gable|}
jumped off to an opening lead}
was lengthened by the
remaining threesome of Hel-!
lier, Jones, and Wynne giv-
ing the Cats the meet. }
Looking very impressive in)
both meets was freshman Tom.
of Greensboro who’
in both the 220)
and 440.

Final Contest
Winners Named

Louie Carrington and Bob
Lathan were named winners in

IN SALISBURY

Di

PIZZA

Both winners will receive
$2.50 toward the purchase
of merchandise at Wilson-
Wright's Clothing Store,
donor of the weekly prize
throughout the season.
Grand prize winner, who has

Mizio s

As I said before, I don't pretend to propose a one-step
method to a completely successful program, but I believe
that an organization of the type which I have suggested
| would be able to assume a more active student leader-
) ship in the I-F sports program. Coach Whittle has heartily
J agreed to back such a council if student support warrants
i

Pigskin Plaudits

As we tuck the football away for a while, we'd like
to give recognition to some deserving folks of the grid-
jiron family. . .

Bill Price, Wildcat captain, topped off an admirable
four-year career at Davidson by nailing down the all-
Southern Conference first team pivot post in the annual
United Press honorary squad . ...

Wildcat pass-grabber Craig Wall, somehow
overlooked when the “men in the know” chose

the all-star elevens, managed to establish three

new conference marks as he led the loop in

pass-receiving . .

Six graduating seniors—Dave Fagg, Dale Gramley,
Bob Stancil, Dave McLain, Ralph Setzler, and Price—
were lauded by Coach Bill Dole for having the distinction
of not having played on a losing team at Davidson, first
departing group in quite a while with such a record . .
And here’s a closing note to all enterprising golfers.
Prof. Frontis Johnston scored a hole-in-one the day be-
fore Thanksgiving on the fifth hole of the Mooresville
course, duplicating the feat of Prof. McGavock, who col-
lected his ace on the same hole last year .. .

ed

