yr Havidsontan —--

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1958

VOL. XLVI

Alumni And Dates “lood Campus
As Homecoming Festivies Begin

_ pS SSAA

NO. 7

. | | Dances, Parties, Game

SIGMA NU

A Homecoming Tragedy

SIGMA CHI Gloria Hester ATO .
e ry with ‘ a
Grundy On A Hot Tin Grid Ata Boze verona ead Holiday Agenda
with mk (let)
Burwell Sh ~ Wandie Abernethy
By DON STOWELL . ore oS aoe vith By DAVID JORDAN
Davidsonian Feature Staff - Richard Brubaker . Davidsonian Staff Writer
a A Zright) Approximately seven hundred girls converged on

the Davidson campus today for the fitst dance weekend
of the school year. Another six to seven hundred alumni
fa |and friends of the college will arrive tonight and tomor-
row for the 1958 Homecoming festivities.

“Let's give the band a big hand. That was a won-
derful half time show. There go the teams back on the
field. The second half will soon be under way. There
goes “Groveller’ Grundy jogging to his place in the}

backfield. PHI DELT BETA - Students, their dates. and. Tomorrow's program will
He was really the big spark| pig! Man, you won’t catch me . ; guests may find a full schedule open with the judging of Home
of the Stonethrowers during the] blind dating at Princess again. | Homecoming Glhich “cnang tonight weekenth | coming decorations at 10.00 a.m.
first half, running for seven/ The team are ready now and Artist. Series program and a| [he IFC. is awarding a trophy to
of Goliath College's touchdowns} there’s the'kick .. . a high kick er 1958 ' formal dance. ‘This afternoon the fraternity with the best. dis.
the Davidson soccer team was play. The decorations will be

and then kicking all the extra
points. He's a cinch for All

Southern and All-American this
year.”

“Boy, that Julie sure must!

going deep into the backfield.”

“Why doesn't. she stand up?
She and that snaky Sam hold-
ing hands. Man. that really tees
me off!”

“What's ‘Groveller’ doing?

FRIDAY

Jane Rostan

with

Angus McBryde

8:00 p.m.-- Artist. Series—Chambers
Auditorium

9:00 1:00 «m:— Formal Dance —

Elizabeth Wildman
with
Ward McKeithen |

host to N. C. State in a contest

 ‘Lthat furnished a preliminary be-

ginning of activities.

472 IN BELK Pp

Mrs. J. Bo Moore, supervisor
of dormitories. reported today

in front of the new houses.
Registration for alumni also
begins at 10:00 a:m. in the Col-
lege Union. Tiekets will be sold
at that time to anyone interest-

(Continued On Page 4)

chick can ‘date a tteotbal “lay. Why doesn’t he look up? ~Johnston “Gymnasium that Belk dorm. the President's

re whe can, rdw fitteen Pp " , 1:00 a.m. Informal Fraternity Par- House, faculty homes, local resi- ( t Of ( { |
cr 9 ean in ie een yards “That good-for-nothing frat KAPPA SIG ties SPE fe} | dences and nearby motels were| our ono

ry gets the pal’, nC’ brother with that two-timing ae all filled hy the inflow of girls. | s

then catch a punt and run sev- . ar yy the in of sirls

taf ; cat. SATURDAY Normally 298 boys room in Belk!
enty-five yards for a touch- = hut this weekend ace ‘i
down. I'm pretty good you must} "The ball is coming right at) ? 10:00 am. Judging for Fraternity ons s ms Nien a Uae _ ‘Freshmen: since you have so
admit. I reckon "ll wave at -her.|him. look out ‘Grovetter,’ Look - Hlomeceming Displays é oa ‘ate nein ant there fer fow of your class here, we are
She'd get a eharge out of that.) out! 7 10:00 ‘a:m. -Alumni Registration - , oceupying the President's cing 10 call off the Freshman-
Yeh, man. Where’d she 30? Student Union Ioifse. “!Saphomore field’ day. Because

“Boy. do they mike a. dis

11:00 a.m.—Campus ‘Tour

‘Our hig problem was. that so

“of the poor showing of class

There's Sally, Jane, Mary-Lou.| gusting pair. Man that really Jane Lineberger 12:13 pm-—HHomecoming Liincheon A Lois Williams spirit you. made here and last
Alice. Carol. Virginia — all{tees.... | ] ele pa Uni ; ‘with many, places normally used f6T) yonday night at the hat burn-
fine girls, fine girls. Maybe 5 with . - Student union Richardson we lim Williams dates are being .used this year ing we fect you are not ready -
that’s why they are always in am -Sloan 2:30 p.m. sal hl dson VMI ; , , -by students,” commented Mrs. for the meet Freshmen iomor-
study -hall when I call. Oh.[ «Ladies and gentlemen, we've Field Ca David ‘de 0 en House Monte. She had to work with! ow in chapel we are going to
there she is. She's moved next} just received word from the i 4:30 bape ane for al ance . many boys in finding places for] oye a hat .check, and if you
to Sam, my old frat brother.J bench that ‘Groveller’ Grundy l, 8:00 12:00 p.m.——Intorm: their dates to stay after the col- . - .

; i PHI GAM i. Johnston Gymnasium : ann - don't have a hat or a 5 by 8
That’s good, he’s probably tell-fis all right after being hit on|' 00 * m._Informal Fraternity Par- lene fveilities had been filled.tinch red card reading ‘I am a
ing her what a fine fellow Ifthe head at the second half ; 1:00 a:m.--In . . " John B. Horton, acting direc-| i peshman Class of ‘62°
am. Yeh, that’s it. Why doesn’t} kick off. ‘Creature’ Thomas has ties tor of Alumni and Public Rela-
she look this way? been put in to replace ‘Grovel- tions. expects an excellent rep-] “U have the backing of John

; ler.” SUNDAY resentation df alumni for both}Kuykendall and the Student
JULIE! Whe ; here I ow Hl * 11:00 a.m.—-Morning Worship — Col- ' (the special alumni activities and|Government to see that you are

! at's coming off any- fad ' ‘lege Church | | the Homecoming | peogram. Injecampused on the weekend. of

_wa ve 7 m—Vespers — College . ; ; gencral. The majority of the}November I. 1 would suggest

me and didn’t even wave back. Charles ) Rh ne 5 Donald , 7:30 Oh h P Sally Ann Wood =; Jalumni, however. will only. be/you go back and tell those who
That's gratitude for you. . usan ae Chure with ; : " idn’ , id.”
Whewa & re nat hot with al on campus for Saturday’s pro (didn't. come what I've said.’

ere’d she get that hot dog Don Coffey ° gram. ’ These were the words. of

and that coke? Ill bet Sam got
them for her. Good frat buddy!
Snake you the minute your
back is turned. And that Julie
eating it up with a spoon. That

Trustee Committee
Has Normal Session

way? She was looking right at

The Executive Committee of
the Board of Trustees met
Thursday, October 23, at two
p.m, in the Trustee Room. This
was a regular session of the
committee held between the
semi-annual Trustee meetings.

President Martin stated,
“This is a routine Committee
meeting before the Trustees
meet on February 18.” He add-
ed that no new proposals were
treated. The meetings was to re-
port the progress of the ad-
ministration since the Trustee
meeting of May 15. !

The major items before the
Executive Committee were the
building program, committee
reports, and introduction of new
members of the administration.

Concerning the building pro-
gram, the Committee discussed
the construction of the Dana
Science Laboratories, the loca-
tion of the new dormitory, and
the Dana Challenge Fund. The
Challenge Fund is to raise
$600,000 necessary to complete
the two buildings.

Reports were heard from the
following committees: building
and grounds, religion and so-
cial life, and finances. Consid-
eration of the over-crowded
Vesper services was delayed un-
til the special student-faculty
committee has had time to
formulate an answer to the
problem.

Mr. Martin gave the Presi-
dent’s report on the gencral
condition of the college and in-
troduced two new members of
the administration: Dean of the
Faculty F. W. Johnson and Di-
rector of Alumni and Public
Relations J. B. Horton. Both
Dr; Johnson and Mr. Horton
filled administration vacancies
during the first week of Octo-

ber.

nc GS NaS SSeS

ls Chapel Speaker

Charles S. Rhyne, immediate
past-president of the American
‘Bar Association, will speak dur-
ing chapel October 30.

Mr. Rhyne, a native of Meck-
lenburg County, is a practicing
attorney in Washington, D. C.
He is alsa on the faculty of the
George Washington University
Law School in Washington, and
has served as legal consultant
to the office of Civil Defense.

A graduate of the undergrad-
uate and law schools of Duke
University, Mr. Rhyne gave the
commencement speech at his al-
ma mater last year at which
time he was awarded an honor-
ary LLD. degree.

He is the author of numerous
legal books, many of which are
devoted to aeronautical law. A
man of varied interests, the
former president of the Nation-
al Aeronautical Association was
featured on the gover of Time
last spring.

No announcement has been
made of the text of Mr. Rhyne’s
speech as of yet. After chapel
on October 30, a meeting of
pre-law students and whose who
think they might be interested
in law will be held during third
period in the Union Ballroom.
At that time, Mr. Rhyne will
discuss legal training and law
as a profession.

db

CHARLES S. RHYNE

Pete Andrews

Committee

with
Dee Green
Vivian Feemster (letf)
with
Dee Lide Sara Wallace

Modifies

Fraternity Regulations

In view of changes brought about by the opening
of the new fraternity court, the faculty, on September
17, under the direction of Dr. W. G. McGavock, took
steps to change certain regulations pertaining to social

functions.

This concerns Section II, So-
cial Functions, under Fraterni-
ties and Social Clubs in the Da-
vidson College Regulations for
Students Handbook. The follow-
ing modifications have been in-
stituted:

Social Functions on the
Campus: The present regule-
tion reads, “When girls are in
a fraternity house, it is neces-
sary that at least two couples
be present at all times with
one exception. It is permis-
sible for one couple to be in
the house provided the house-
mother is on the premises and
is notified of their presence.”

Formerly, the rule stated,
“When girls are invited to a
fraternity house, it is necessary
that at least two couples be
present at all times.”

Closing Hours: The present
regulation reads, “Fraternity
houses and the Court shall be
vacated by all girls by mid-
night, except for dance week-

ends and special oecasions for
which permission has been
granted by the Dean of Stu-
dents. On dance weekends
fraternity houses and the
Court shall be vacated by all
girls by 5:00 a.m. Saturday
morning and 3:00 am. Sun-
day morning.”

Formerly, the rule stated.
“Fraternity houses and the
Court shall be vacated by all
visitors at midnight on Satur-
days and nights of all social
functions at which girls are
present. except for’dance week-
ends and special occasions when
permission may be obtained
from the Dean of Students.”

General: The following
statement has been added:
“Out of consideration for the
housemothers and people in
the neighborhood of Fraterni-
ty Court, any student remain-
ing in a fraternity house aft-
er midnight is expected to be
reasonably quiet.”

Betty Homer

Ralph Triplette
(right)

with

Appears In Journal

The June, 1958 issue of “The
Journal of the History of Ideas”
carried a six-page article by
Professor J. Wilson McCutchan

Beta Th

DYER-BENNET TONIGHT

Court of Control Judge John

Richard Dyer Bennet, renown-| Nix. speaking from the track

ed minstrel and guitarist. ini-|in front of the west :stands of
tiates this year’s. Artist Series in{ Richardson Field amid: hoarse
Chambers .Auditorium at 8:00 |cries of “No” hurled back. by

-{tonight. His repertoire will in-/the 50 to 75 Freshmen support-

‘clude a. rendition of America’s] ers.

most: popular folk songs.

Opposition was thrown out in

Lester Lanin's Orchestra is speeches by several freshmen
supplying the music for both|who wanted rebellion. Support:

the formal dance tonight and
the informal one tomorrow.

|

ed by cheers of agreement. they
spoke on the point of showing

Planned by the Interfraternity|class spirit in chapel by not
Council, the dances are beind} wearing hats. “The Freshman

held in Johnston Gymnasium.

Court will be worse than the

The various fraternities and|Court of Control on those who

‘the Independents
after-dance parties tonight and

the affairs at the fraternity
houses are 5:00 a.m. Saturday
morning and 3:00 a.m. Sunday.

are having{do,” said one.

The small crowd milled about

‘tomorrow. The time limits for|for a while, and then thinned

Interfraternity Council Sponsors

McCutchan Article

out, leaving only the ones who
had dressed for the event jog-
ging the track. ~

eta Pi Celebrates

Hundred Years on Campus

This weekend marks the one hundreth anniversa

ry of the social fraternity sys-

of the English Department of|tem at Davidson College. In 1858 Beta Theta Pi became the first Greek letter fraterni-
ty on the campus. Within the next five years the fraternity and almost the college
itself was blotted out by the bloody war between the States. Two decades after the
war a similar band of brothers was organized as the Sword and Shield Chapter of
the Mystic Seven national fraternity. Sword and Shield revived Beta Theta Pi in

Davidson College.

The title of Professor Me-
Cutehan’s article was ‘Justice
and Equity in the English Mo-
rality Play.”

Material in the article is a
condensation of a paper read
at the University of Kentucky
Language Conference. in April
of 1957 before the Medieval sec-
tion. The paper points out an-
other one of the areas of Eng-
lish society described by the
writers of the morality plays,
and it shows that the native
drama often reflected in real-
istic fashion the life of the per-
iod.

In essence, the article, ad-

duces additional proof that the
morality play progressed from
its first form of an abstract
dramatization of theological
concepts to that of a social com-

jmentary in dramatic form.

1890.

Within the next five years
the fraternity and almost the
college itself was blotted out
by the bloody war between the
States. Two decades after the
war a similar band of brothers

was organized as the Sword and’

Shield Chapter of the Mystic
Seven national fraternity. Sword
and Shield revived Beta Theta
Pi in 1890. :

BANQUET

To culminate a weekend of
celébration the Phi Alpha Chap-
ter of Beta Theta Pi will hold
a banquet tomorrow night at
the Barringer Hotel in Char-
lotte. AH alumni = and_ their
families have been invited; to
date. over fifty alumni are
scheduled to return, represent-
ing classes ranging from 1900

to 1958. All day tomorrow the.

house will be open to returning

alumni and friends, with a spe- Bets Theta Pi. Priest has distin-
cial tea given in the afternoon.| guished himself in Beta cir-

At the - banquet
night Laurens Walker.
dent of the chapter, will act
as master of ceremonies. George
Adams, '50. will be on hand to
introduce the evening speaker,
A. J. G. Priest. president of the
national fraternity from 1951 to
1954. Priest attended the Uni-
versity of Idaho, where he was
president of his Beta chapter,
president of his Senior Class.
editor of the school newspaper.
and a Phi Beta Kappa graduate.

Since that time Priest has be-
come preeminent in his legal
career and well-known through
his work in world government.
Throughout his alumni years,
he has given himself whole-
heartedly to the building of

Saturday|cles. by attending twenty-four
presi-| conventions,

serving as chair-
man of most, of the ‘important
convention committees. He has
also been a convention. toast-
master and a banquet speaker,
delivering a series of address-
es upon the great Beta leaders

of the past. _
ALUMNI
Prominent alumni who will
participate in the centennial

celebration include: Dr, John
R. Cunningham, former presi-
dent. of Davidson: Dr. D. D.
Phillips, president of the Phi
Alpha alumni association; Dr.
Frontis Johnston, dean of fac-
ulty, and Dr. Chalmers David-
son, librarian of the college and
chapter adviser. Dr. Davidson
will introduce various alumni at
the banquet.
