a

Do You Think for Yourself ? w:

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1958

ene oe a
oo

Davidsonian =

=—=SPORTS
Sports
All That

By JIM HAMILTON

It must have come out of a story book. |
There: were fifteen seconds on the clock.

There was the score, Wofford 20, Davidson 18, on
the scoreboard.

There was a tear on the cheek of Jim Bloomfield
whose fingertips had just been evaded by an elusive

pass.
There was anxiety on the faces of the smali but
loyal Davidson contingent. a

There were growing smiles on the faces of the Wof-
ford fans across the way.

And there was a boy on the Davidson team named
Usher who wears a snub-toed shoe.

Fifteen seconds later there was bedlem on the Da-
vidson side, numbness and shock on the Wofford side.
Usher had booted a 27 yard field goal that had barely
sneaked over the crossbar in the corner to give the Cats
a 21-20 victory.

All the- ingredients. from a story book ... tears...

faughter ...
the exuberant leap of Dean Johnston's and the sigh from
the old Wofford alumnus next to me named Hamilton,
as the ball crept over the bar . . . the random, non-
sensical comments that only have meaning in this con-
text... such as Coach Tucker’s “The greatest thing Ive
ever seen” . as Coach McKee’s many times repeated
“Tremendous, tremendous”

ers who could only say “Thank you” to the many con- the

as Coach Dole's smiling, the biggest] ertul Navy to two touchdowns,
VMI to one, and- beat N. C.
State 13-6. Their statistical rec-
fords in no way indicate their
team ability, as they play prob-
ably the roughest schedule in
the conference.

gratulations

re ey

one in years, who said little, but showed his feelings *|

placing a kiss on the ruddy cheek of his boy, Bruce .
as Coach Steven's, who confessed, ‘I’m still shaking.”

The masses had cleared, the players had finally
gained the sanctuary of the dressing room to continue
their celebration in private, but Coach McKee still walked
around shaking everyone’s hand as happily as if he had
kicked the goal, muttering all the time, “Tremendous,
tremendous.”

And it was.

By the way, fellow Davidsonians, as I intimated last
week. never leave a Davidson football game before it’s
over.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

jrights to nudge the ‘Cats ahead

relaxation of all inhibitions that produced |

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Usher’s Last Second
Boot Beats Wofford

Davidson's gridiron °Cats travel to Williamsburg
tomorrow to meet tough William & Mary in their third
conference tilt. Last week the Wildcats made a brilliant
second half comeback to edge Wofford 21-20.

Freshman Bruce Usher cooly} s
smacked a sharply angled 27 Cat Runners Aim
On State Meef

yard field goal between the up-
By BOB GREENE

Davidson's cross-country har. |
riers journey to Raleigh this
weekend for the State Mect

did not allow a single first
down, Davidson also managed to Monday following McBryde's
’ record-breaking jaunt at Lex-

score two touchdowns preced-| ington. Wednesday.

ing Usher's kick. The Wildeat runners had a
full schedule this week, defeat- ;
ing the University of Richmond
Saturday and taking third place }

in the final 15 seconds of the
game. Throwing up a rock-hard
defense in the last half which

The Terriers had their first
TD sct up for them in the ini-
tial quarter when a high punt
sailed over receiver Grant Mc-
Rorie’s head to the .19 yard
line. Officials ruled he touched ith team captain An M

wi am ec gus Me-
the ball and Wofford recovered. Bryde leading the pack with
The second came when a high 22:51 for the 4.0 mile course.
pass from center over Barbce’s| Richmond captured — second
hands gave them the pigskin: place then Davidson's: McNeil,
on the 2l. Eckbert, MecKeithen, and
Thompson came across the
finish in that order.

The Cats didn't fare as well
in the triangle affair on Wed-
nesday, partially due to the
sickness of Eckbert who failed

and VMI Wednesday.

A wet Saturday. morning saw
the Cats place five men in the
first six against the Virginians

The third, however, was
scored on a. beautiful pass
play from quarterback
Charlie Bradshaw to end
Jerry Richardson. Mean-

in a triangle meet with W & L' i,

PAGE THREE

sortseats Face William & Mary

NN

ee Sigs Hold
eer Lead

By JERRY RICH
The Kappa Sig powerhouse preserved its precious
-{one-game lead in the Intra-fraternity flickerball race
at the end of Round Twelve as the green-shirted mus-
clemen rolled to victory over Sigma Chi.

& oe

The Betas and the Phi Delts nae 4
P| -were tied for second with| spr 56
| -_ a identical 9-2 records opposed to Pi Kapp 4-7
-”* Kappa Sig’s 10-1 achievement.{ PiKA 38
=. Rounding out the top five were phi Gam oo
| @K sigma Chi and ATO with 8 Sigma Nu 0-12
‘wins and 4 losses cach.
. A heavy first half attack Wi iy 5
LY ‘ spurred ‘the SPE's to a 27- infer ports lari

‘9 win over an under-man-
ned Independent team on
Wednesday. tn other Wed-
nesday action, ATO blanked
Sigma Nu’s winless crew
14.0; Beta did everything
but tar and feather the Phi

Fall Practice.

By TOM RAIFORD

With the © basketball and
wrestling season Jess than a

ER. = TORE . O%.,, at

USHER FOR PRESIDENT Gams as the-seconaerlacers |foors are. rapidly improving
coasted fo an easy 45-6 wins | and looking forward to good

and Phi Delt shellacked Pi
Kaopa Alpha 39-9.

| seasons,
BASKETBALL

‘The ATO-Sigma Nu game ini-| The basketball team has five

tiated Round Thirteen action. ! jeturning lettermen; Tri Cap- |
Games remaining to be played! tains Semi Mintz. Dave Hollings-
after Wednesday were the Kap-| worth, and Joc Milner, along

PENALTIES AL‘ ALSO
pa Sig Phi Kappa Phi, KA-SPE./ with Bill Shinn and John Huie,

e Independents Phi Delt. SAE-/Qne position has been left va-
' bad Phi Gam, and Beta PiKA affairs.) cant from last year. and guards
0 iS es a e ennis A Kappa Sig loss coupled Huie and Stafford are good

it by either Phi | Prospects for this vacancy.
with a win by either Phi | Coach Scott has stated, “We

Delt or Beta, or wins b :
ree OF y ‘should be improved over last

-
Calendar,

. . to place.
while, Davidson had clicked The Kittens, however, ran
for only one tally, a onee |what Coach Heath Whittle Removal of table tennis from the intramural sports
yard plunge by Dave War- jdesignated, “their best race’|calendar, a. new policy concerning referee reimburse-

den, to make the halftime
score 20-6,

Davidson faces one’ of the
teas as those of the play-|toughest defensive squads in
in
W & M. The Indians held pow-

Southern Conference

Although W & M tied
VMI earlier this year,
Coach Dole doesn’t regard
the Indians as potent of-
fensively or defensively as
the squad that belted Da-
vidson 42-7. “They’re big,
but slow and are not as
deep as VMI” Their pass-
ing offense is notably poor
due to the absence of in-
jured quarterback Frank
Secules. W & M is ranked
eighth in total offense
while Davidson is fifth.

Coach Dole has made some|
changes in the starting lineup.|in a triangle meet with Char- |
Freshman Jerry Sheffield will] lotte's
start at Paul Barbee's left half-|schools

with David Gilmour turning in
a sterling performance at 16:18.
His closest pursuer  finishe+
eleven seconds back. Brownlee.
Coffey, Schafner, and Kinny,
placed 4th, 5th. 7th, and 9th,
respectively.

ment, and announcement of the winter sports calendar
highlighted last Wednesday's meeting of the Intramural
Athletic Council.

Table tennis was removed be-' VIOLATION RULES
cause of the lack of interest, Penalties. of a number of
shown in the tournament. The points to be decided later, will

Whittle also praised freshman! possibilities of scheduling an{be - inflicted .on fraternities
Ran Schafner for his outstahd-'open table tennis tournament} Whose referees fail to show up
ing effort. The Keydet fresh-!and also an open pool tourna-,at games which they are slated
men were undefeated prior to,ment was discussed briefly, to, to officiate.

Wednesday's contest. be. taken up later after mem-

The highlight of the after-|bers of the’ fraternities Thad
noon was Angus MeBryde’s rec-| been consulted.
ord-breaking run of 22:46: De- PAY OR CUT

Likewise, fraternities which
postpone a contest without
three day's written notice giv
en to the IMAC Calendar Com-
mittee will be penalized. These
penalties will be . subtracted:
from the team's overall seore:
in. the particular sport. \

held the previous record ofj}than ‘freshmen may have the
23:12 for the rugged 4.15 mile|choice of either the usual pay
circuit and will probably bejor a free cut in Physical Edu-
McBryde’s toughest competition; cation class for officiating at
‘in the conference event. an intramural contest. Along

Commenting on Davidson's} with this change is the stipula-
chances in the state meet Coach}tion. that cach fraternity . will
Whittle stated, “The. freshmen} furnish three referees for flick-
have an excellent chance of! erbail, basketball. and possibly|
winning first place although|softball, who will attend sey-
Duke and Carolina have very/cral sessions of a “school” prior
strong teams. The varsity’s main (to the opening of the scason.

both, would send the race |” : .
year. Our three leading scorers

int two, ibly th . .
teem d vtec ° Sh out d the are back—Mintz, Hollingsworth,
. and Shinn."

Kappa Sigs emerge victori- aan
PP 9 9 Injuries

ous in their last game, the qd have Slowed » the
flickerball title will be [eam down somewhat, but the

their first since 1954. ‘Cats expect to be in top shape
According to Intramural Ath for the opening game with
letic Council representatives, no Wake Forest on December 2
LF events aro scheduled for WRESTLERS
next weck unless there remain] The grapplers, captained by
any flickerball games to be!their big gun “Westy” Wester-
played. vell, return‘six lettermen to the

THE STANDINGS AS OF mat, this year. There is a good

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5 nucleus for a team. but more
‘ jheavy and fight men are need-

Kappa Sig 10-1. ed.

Beta ‘9-2 The opening meet December
Phi Delt 92 |8 with Pfeiffer should set the
Sigma Cht 84 §=‘ball rolling towards a “good
ATO _ season.’

Davidson Falls To W.&L.

Be of William and Mary. Intramural officials other

hope is in McBryde who should!
be fighting for the number one!
position.”

The freshmen also triumphed!

East. and West high.
last week. Gilmour

The Calendar Committee
announced the following
dates for the winter sports:
Wrestling, November 17 and
18; Swimming, December
10 and 11; Basketball, be-
ginning January 6, 7, or 8.

Hits King College Today

By PETE WYRICK

This afternoon the Wildcat soccer squad played visiting King College, this be-
ing the first encounter of the two teams. King College boasts a large number of for-

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C,

back position. Barbee was in-|again set the pace with Coffey
jured in the Wofford game and | taking second.

is not expected to play much.; The varsity overall
Also, Frank Anderson and Alex|ence record stands at’ 4-3. The
Porter will probably start at|frosh are undefeated in ten out-
the the tackles; ings.

Do you often dislike doing favors for
others, even though you tell yourself
you enjoy it? ‘“s

without feeling hostile?

Do you refuse to worry about things
you can’t do anything about?

Would you be completely at ease if
you found yourself suddenly in the

spotlight at a social gathering? to try out strange foods?

Would you vote for establishing an
international language other

than English? umpire to settle disputes?

ONLY VICEROV HAS A
THINKING MAN'S FILTER...
A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

Knows...

Now answer this one: Do you really think about
the filter cigdrette you chooge? YES. NOW
If your answer is “Yes’’. . . well, you’re the kind
of person who thinks for himself. You can be
depended on to use judgment in everything you do.
The fact is, men and won.en who really think for
themselves usually smoke VICEROY. Their reason?
Best in the world. They know for a fact that

only VICEROY—no otiaer cigarette — has a
thinking man's filter and a smoking man’s taste.

"IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED YES TO 6 OF
THESE QUESTIONS, YOU ARE A PERSON
WHO THINKS FOR HIMSELF!

= Wrawn & WIftlamson Tobsece Cor.

sibility of
confer-| games in handball rather than
the
years, This will be voted on at
a later meeting

THIS TEST )
LL TELL YOU! *

squad as they won Saturday's
wma, Can you compete with another person veg (-] no[ | contest by a 5:2 margin.
Do you ever say things you don’t
believe, just to start a discussion?

When you're very hungry, do you like

Do you enjoy being called upon as an

Also brought up was the pos-

installing 21 point eign students. many of whom have seen previous soccer experience in their na-

tive countries.

15-point games of past

FUTURE ACTION

Today's action was the next
to last home game of_this §ea-
son, the team journeying next
to Chapel Hill to meet U.N.C.
on Nov. 14 and closing out the
season here on Nov, 21 against
Warren Wilson,

The Wildcat record for the
year stands at 4-4. Wins include
double victories over Pfeiffer
and Belmont Abbey.

The Wildcats were able
to work the ball downfield
several times, but failed to
find the net on scoring at-
tempts. Leading the David-
son offense was high scorer
Wiecher Bergsma.

Last Friday afternoon the Da-
vidson team left fer Lexington,
Va.. to face Washington and Lee
on Saturday. W & L had edged
out the Wildeats in their first
encounter here by a_ narrow
margin of 1-0. On their home
ficld the Generals once again
managed to down the Davidson

The two Davidson goals both
came in the third period and
ere accounted for by Bergsma.
One was a field goal and the
other resulted from a penalty
kiek.

The ‘Cats threatened. again in
the final period as they attempt-
ed. to even the score, but were
unable to score again.

W & L CONTROLS
In amassing their five goals,
W & L managed to control the
ball a great deal of the timo
and kept the Davidson defense
working over time.

In addition to the Washington
and Lee losses. Davidson has
dropped individual contests to
Duke and N. C. State.

ves[_] no[ |

ves ]vof_| Here's a Real Buy

50% Alpaca -

Cardigan Sweaters

ves[_] of

COLORS
LT. OXFORD
MED. GREY
NATURAL
SAND

FIRE RED
WHITE
BLACK

$12.95

WILSON-WRIGHT'S, INC.

COLLEGIATE FASHIONS
DAVIDSON “

