Summer '58 Edition - umber 3

July 1, 1958

— abt ail Dawidsonian

HOLIBAY

Friday and Saturday, July 4 and 5, will be
a holiday period in the summer session of
the college. As we preoare to celebrate
this period and commenorate the occasion
that made it possiblc, remembering the rich
and meaningful history assoniated with it
and the implications it still holds for us
todav — may each and every one of us have
a happy and jovous holiday in a real. and
sincere manner.

There are three aspects pertaining’ to this
holiday ‘in which we gre directly concerncd.
Our absence from classes and studies will
afford us a time of relaxation and refresh-
ment. A few davs at home, at the beach, in
the mountains, or wherever we choosc to
spend this time, will help to renew our
minds and bodies.

But that.is not the most important thing to
consider at this time. Gur thoughts must
also include the real meaning behind this
.celebration. To help prepare us in this
manner, we would liké to share with you the
following thoughts of J. ‘dear Hoover,
Director, Federal. Bureau of Investipation.

"The year was 1776. The Coritinental Con-
egress, meeting in Philadelphia, adonted the
Declaration of Independence. In that
moment, the affirmation of freedom from
tyranny for the New World was recorded. In
signing the document, the 56 American patri-
ots also knowingly accepted the risk inher-
ent in winning freedom.

"On freedom's altar, they — in Jefferson's
words — pledged, '...our Lives, our For-
tunes, and our sacred Honor.'

"The action of those men made government of
the people a reality. .It also made each
one of us accountable for the continuation
of free government.

"Since that beginning, no one, I think, has
set forth the responsibility of the individ-
ual more plainly than did that vigorous
patriot, Theodore Roosevelt:

',.ewe are the government, you
and I,'

(continued on page 2)

CAR THEFT

On Saturday night, a member of the student
body drove his car into the parking lot
adjacent to the College Union. He went
into.the Union and watchea television for
approximately, an hour. Upon returning to
the parking lot, he discovered thet his
car was no longer there. He had left the
Keys in the ignition.

it. the help of the local Police, a search
for the car was made, but with no immediate
results. The véhicle was finally located
ionday’ evening, abandoned in a field.

It is understood that many students have
the practice of leaving keys in car igni-
tions. This is an extremely high compli-
ment to our honor system here at Davidson.
We live here in this attosnhere of educa-
tidori and culture, and trust each other to
the utmost; but, 4s incidents have oroven,
our fair campus seems not to be immune to
inhabitants of the outside world. Per-
haps in the future, we should not allow.
temntation in its most evident form to.
remain before the eves of everyone.

. a4 THE UNION

$b .iwWe.

WIGHT AL 9:00

The results of the pledre in chanel on
Thursday pertaining to the mid-summers
dance activities were very. encourafing.

Of the one-half of the student body polled,
onl: five did not promise monetary help.
The other half of the students will be
polled today.

RIDDLI wl Truc: Wer ENG

Those we caurht, we threw away. Those we

could not catch, we kept.
What is it?

(Answer next week)

This publication is for YOU. We would like
for you to have a real’ part in it. Your
ideas and contributions will be preatly
appreciated. You may submit such ideas

and material for publication at the desk
in the Vollere Union. See your own compo-
sition in circulation!!

Joe - Say, Jim, have.you heard the joke
about the blind man who picked up
the hammer and saw?

a

