FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1958

6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BY
GEORGE RAMSEY

SCOTT FORESEES IMPROVEMENTS

“With the Southern Conference meet to be held
here in May, there are several improvements we'll have
to make on the track.” And coach Scott went on to
enumerate various improvements needed in the local
athletic facilities.

Conference meet requirements specify that the shot
and discus must be hurled from a circle with a concrete
base, which base must be added to the throwing area
here at Davidson. The runways for the broad jump and
pole vault should be black-topped, said Scott, and cinders
must be added to the track itself to improve its surface.

INTRAMURAL FIELDS

Outside of the track improvements, Scott cited needs
in other areas which should be met as soon as. possible.
He considered the greatest need to~be the betterment
of the’ intramural fields, especially those on the old golf
course, which need to be leveled to provide adequate
facilities for intramural softball and flickerball.

Possible work on the football field would include
grading of the field, and erecting a fence around the
field.

As to the matter of lighting the tennis courts, Scott

replied that the primary reason that this has not been)

done is that there are no electric lines in that vicinity.
He indicated that he was strongly in favor of lighting
the courts, possibly by a meter system, whereby the stu-
dents would help pay for the electricity as they played.

. ° *

SPRING GRID GRIND

Elsewhere around the coaching staff, coach Dole
sent out a call for all boys interested in football to re-
port to spring practice on Friday, January 31, the first
day after exams.

Dole stated that anyone in the student body is wel-
come to come out: Equipment should be checked out

* * - *

Matmen Top Stale,
Host VMI Tomorrow

By BOB GREEN
The Davidson matmen scored
a strong 21-13 victory over
North Carolina State at Raleigh
Southern

pound strong-
man, claimed
straight triumph in
pacing the Cats to their second
non-conference win ,of the year.
Davidson’s Bob Schacter
took the 123 pound division
by a forfeit, while Waller

Taylor, 137 pound class, de-

cisioned Troutman of State

74. In the 140 pound com-

petition freshman Bob Mc-

Intyre ovutpointed Fields

5-3 for another Cat victory.

Milton Gee took the 147

pound class on a default,

his opponent being injured
during the match.

Falls claimed Davidson's
Charlie Lampley who was pinned
by Malteese in the 150 pound
division and Captain Dave Fagg
who was pinned by State’s Nel-
son inthe heavyweight bout.
Richie King lost a 1-0 decision
to Broyhill to complete the seor- |
ing column.

Coach Parker praised

Westervelt’s fine showing

against State and his con-

his 14th

|
|

during exams from Doc White in the equipment room of!
the gym. Practice will continue for five weeks, with ses-|
sions being held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays, and|
Saturdays.

Likewise, any boy interested in managing the grid

squad is urged to contact either coach Dole or manager |

Sandy Grey.

SCHOLARLY GRIDDERS

Due recognition are three members of the 1957
football team who earned positions on the conference all-

scholastic team selected by the staff of American Peo-
ples’ Encyclopedia. Tackle Paul Biggers and fullback)

Dave Warden received a set of the encyclopedia, and end
Harold Westervelt, named to the team for the second
year in succession, earned a case for the encyclopedia
set which he received in 1956.

. * 2 . * t

Coach Charlie Parker, anxious to get the picture
of his boy Westy hung in the gym, is joining with coaches
Scott and Whittle in an effort to hang the frameg photos
of recent Davidson athletic standouts in the trophy room
along with pictures of other Wildcat greats. Look for
the pictures of recent honorees to be hung soon.

The Charlotte Clippers’ Davidson College night,
mentioned in this column earlier, is slated for Thursday
night, January 30, when the Clips, current pace-setters
in the Eastern Hockey League, skate out against the Clin-
ton Comets. Should be a _ ice-ing for the cake —
cooked up by the faculty .

© os * * » a

SALE CONTINUES

i

-WILSON-WRIGHT'S Inc.

1500 COLLEGE STUDENTS NEEDED
Would you like to save $600 to $1000 next summer
while having a wonderful time? America’s favorite

-esort, Atlantic City, N. J., now hiring college
students for next summer.

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY

Waiters, waitresses, bell-hops, cashiers, etc. Send

lication blank and information
ing conditions and social activities to

EMPLOYMENT, 110 MANGUM,

CHAPEL HILL, N. C.

7

;
}
4

!
‘

jin the baseball throw with a

and Bill. Gramley
with 6° 6”

heave of 47° 1”.

_ better showing this year, needs

Dale Gramley, Bill Warlick, John
' West, Dave Warden, John Huie,

sistant competitive spirit.
He stated that Westy really
hasn't been pushed this
year, but that VMI's Baker
would be a very tough op-
ponent if he wrestles in the
167 pound class.

| Freshmen McIntyre and Tay-
| lor, who wrestled his first match
lof the year against State were
halso cited for outstanding -per-
| formances.

The lineup for tomorrow's
clash with VMI will probably
i find, Lampley in the 137 pound
division and Harrison May in
\the 140 pound slot. The Key-
dets dropped the Cats 22-10 last
season so the hosts will really
have to fight to win this one

Last year for the 2nd time,
the local chapter of Sigma Del-
ta Psi National Athletic Fra-
ternity, entered the national
championship contest that is
held yearly. Previously, D. C.,
had won it in 1938. Davidson

made a very respectable show-
ing both collectively and indi-

tering the ten events he had
been most, skilled at — those
events being the ones required
for admittance into the fraterni-
ty.

Springfield College won the
championship scoring and the
championship for new members,
while Davidson placed second

| wise

HOLD 6.6. RECORD

By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson courtmen, resting in an unfamiliar
second place tie in Southern Conference standings be-
fore last night's clash with Furman, will attempt to
strengthen or regain their grasp on the number two rung
of the conference ladder tomorrow night as they battle

The Citadel in Johnston gym.
The Citadel presents quite: a

last Saturday. VMI, problem for the ‘Cats, having| 61-87 edge. However, they
Conference champion wrestlers| been tied with Davidson for) had the ball. Davidson's
will testi second place in conference|~ pressing defense backfired
Coach Park-| standings before yesterday's as William and Mary scored.
er’s M€N/aetion. The sophomore-studded; one field goal and twelve
here tomor-| Bulldogs own a 42 record, and| foul shots to the Wildcats’
row after-| have. twice vanquished William| four points, to produce the
BOO: and Mary, the only conference|. final 75-61 margin.
Harold Wes-|team. to defeat Davidson this | : :
tervelt, Da-| year. | Freshman Bill Shinn led the}
vidson's. 167|° ‘with two starters from Ohio, |Ioeal hardwooders with a 16)
two from Indiana, and one from, Pot effort, while: Roy Lange |
South Carolina, ‘the Bulldogs '°4, the victors with 22. =
are a manifestation of Mark) Prevines: to. eau night's)
Clark’s athletic build-up. pro-|#4™e- Davidson had dumped)
gram. Ohioan Dick Wherry at! M.I. 56-52, and Washington}
guard and forward Art Mussel-|2%¢ Lee 8463 on the Virginia|
swing

man, from Indiana, provide the} |
punch in The Citadel attack. | OVERALL RECORD
SAD FINALE Davidson's over-all record now |
Davidson experienced a dis-|Stands at. the .500 mark, with
appointing finale to an other-) 6 wins and 6 losSes. Coach Scott
suecessful northern  so-| feels, however, that it is sig-
journ Monday night as they fell| nificant that five of the: wins—
to William and Mary, 75-61 at) Wofford, VMLL, W. & L.,
Williamsburg, in’ what coach|two over Catawba,
Scott called “not one of our) against teams that beat David-|
better games.” |
The score was tied 54-54,
with six, minutes fo play,
and at the three minute
mark, the Indians held a

| With 12 games remaining,

| opposition,
|
jroad ahead.

Typically A Captain,”
Fagg Earns Aesstades!”

of life.” j
Those who know Dave know Dave's leadership in which foot-!
what that sign means to’ hing ball coach Bill Dole and wrest-

and how it leaves its mark on} ling coach Charlie
him. Dave excels.

Dave has included himself asj
one of “those” and has earned)
high school and college honors |
by having been “self-made,
working hard for what he gets. !

From the same motives rise |

Parker states that Dave
has actually made the job
of coaching this year’s mat-
men easier than ever as.
their captain. Dole, under
whom Fagg served as cap-
tain this. past football sea-
son, added that Dave, along
with Bill Price, was great-
ly responsible for the team’s
success and adds that Dave's
character is of the highest
quality. ;
Being captain is
‘| from high school

conference and worthy of honor-|
able mention in the state. He|
captured the state 177 Ib. wrest-|
ling championship his senior|
year and had taken third in the |
165 class the year before.

He will attend North Carolina |
FAGG

“B” average

and | \{nterfraternity tank throne Wednesday by edging the
have been| iSAEs, 18)¢- 17.

json at least onée last season.| points for third place, foll
ten) by the Phi Gams, with 10 points, |
\of which are against conference | and
Scott sees a rough) with 9%

| with being a physic al education

Parker = say

| the

| shamed the Cats the previous
a holdover | year
where Dave| self but. sharing one of David-
was leader of his High Point! son’s greatest moments with his
+} 0N.C.) grid squad and was all- | teammates

University next year with a high | tribute is paid to a great David-
on a fellowship, | sonian.

INTERFRATERNITY SWIMMING finals were held Wednesday night, with the defending
champion Phi Delts again capturing the.title. Runners-up SAE waged a down-to-the-wire fight
with the champs for the crown, and finished 1'/2 points back. (Photo by Stevens.)

-F Tank Til

In a battle that was fought to the last event, the |
|defending champion Phi Delt swimmers returned to the

The Davidson Swimming team
stroked out its second win of
the season here Wednesday aft-
ernoon with a 54 to 28 victory
over Wake Forest.

Captain Fritz: Russell started
| the afternoon off right by gain-

ing a lead in the first lap of
the medley relay which the re-

scored ef |
owed! seconds; the Sigma Chis took
second and the Phi Delts third.

The Sigma Chis

the KA's in fifth place,

Then George Kirkpatrick,
Sigma Chi, finished the 25
yard freestyle event in 12.4
seconds to take first place
with Wood, Phi Delt, and
Jones, K.A., finishing slight-
ly behind him to take sec-

ond and third places.

In the 150 yard medley relay;
the S.A.E.’s Fagscrse first with
‘a time of: minute and 46.5

teacher as his goal.
As does any athlete, Dave ad-)
mired one who had gone be fore |

Jim Alexander, of the S.A.E.

Hanging above Dave Fagg’s desk in ii0 Beik is a phim and always. admired in or | squi id, proved his ability by tak-| imainder of the team, Joe Beil,
sign reading: ‘‘For those who will fight bravely and not) out of athletic competition, Son-|ing the
yield, there is triumphant victory over all the dark things "Y Sorrell,

50 yard back stroke, Att Miller, and Bob Wynne
and/ event with a time of 33.8 .sec- lengthened. From then on_ it
| onde; with the Betas’ Martin; WS almost all Cats as they col-

and. the Phi Gams’ Bremer fi- lected six firsts, as many sec-

and third. onds, and five thirds for the
| victory.

50 yard freestyle Hen-'

a High
Puke University end.

Point

Having always enjoyed
kicking extra points for the
Cats, Dave expresses disap-

nishing second

In the 7 :
FREESTYLE EVENTS

proval over the new college {ry Pharr, S.A-E.,, and Frank)

ruling which threatens to | Holt, Beta, tied for first place! The locals placed well in all

remove kicking in favor of | with a time of 282 seconds,the freestyle events with Tom

running and passing for two | while Jones, K,A., took third. | Hudgins and Bill Hellier, re-

extra points instead of one. | | Spectively, gaining first. and
| Gene’ Driver, Phi. Delt,

See F won third in the 220. Hudgins seoréd
of Dave's spirit IS; the 50 yard breaststroke in 40.1

answer he gave to the ques-| seconds, yielding ’ second
tion. intended to find out his} third places to Hill, S.P_E.,

lrypical another first

and! event
and!

in the 440 yard
and. George: Gable. came
@ut ahead in the 50 yard dash

[biggest football experience at! Cobb, Phi Delt with senior Bob Jones right be-
|} Davidson. The win over Wof-| A 4 avy

\ford and ‘particularly of setting} The 75 yard freestyle event a _ bos —
| back two fellows by the name of | ¥#8 taken by Chris Bremer, — bag — entggs one
| Bradshaw and DePrete that had|°! the Phi Gam- team, in 42.9 eee eee seer ee oe

ble third in the 100 yard event.

Johnny Seott won firsts in
both. the 200 butterfly and
breaststroke to add to the Da-
vidson point total; fast. improv-
ing divers Jack Rose and Jim
Black placed second and third,

seconds; second and third places
went to Kirkpatrick, Sigma Chi,
and Ray, Phi Delt

Hunt, A.T.O., took the -75
yard individual medley with a
time of 59.1 seconds while An-

-not taking credit for him-

His most memorable

’ Thi - 6 3 P ?

wrestling experience: png Ms os ese — in that order, in their event; and
Herold: Westervelt winning pe aa goers sp : ir Russell came out second in a nip
the Southern Conference e i Delts acked into; and tuck battle for backstroke

first place in the 200-yard free- | honors to finish the afternoon's
style relay, when the winning | activities.

Sigma Chi team was disquali-| The tankmen’s next meet is
fied. Finishing second in this with Clemson in the local pool
"event were the K.A.’s. jon January 31.

championship last year.

Via THE DAVIDSONIAN, a

in the former and third in the

to Davidson's nine.
Of the eight individual

Davidson had four men
named among those listed for
the best individual records. Tom
Rivers was first in the 100 yard
swim with a time of 53.0 see-
'onds. Dave Warden was second

distance of 342 feet. In the
fence vault Chris Bremer was
first with a height of 7 feet,
was second
Gramley also placed
second in the shot-put with a

Davidson, anxious to make a
more members: Any boys inter-

ested may see any of the fol-
lowing members: Chris Bremer,

and Max Bryan.

latter. Springfield had a total)
of 5,567 points to Davidson's}
5,237; with Springfield having}!
added twenty-four new members}

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company,
Winston- -Salem, N. C.

If you answered “No” to all questions, you obviously
smoke Camels — a real cigarette: Only 6 or 7 “No”
answers mean you better get on to Camels fast. Fewer
than 6 “No’s” and it really doesn’t matter what you
smoke. Anything's. good enough!

But if you want to enjoy smoking as never before,
switch to Camels. Nothing else tastes so rich, smokes~
so mild. Today more people smoke Camels than

any other cigarette.
best smoke. Try Camels and you'll agree!

Test your
| ») personality power

(I aint necessarily so!)

1. Do you find the dimensions of a parallelograrn more ~
intriguing than those of an hour-glass figure?

2. Do you believe that your studies should be allowed
to interfere with your social life?

3. Do you call off a movie date with the campus doll
because somebody tells you the film got bad reviews?

4. Do you think anything beats rich tobacco flavor and
smooth mildness in a cigarette?

5. Do you believe two coeds in your brother's class

are worth one in yours? ee ee

6. Do you feel that your college's dating rules are too lenient? ae ee
7. Do you prefer smoking *
to a real cigarette? ee aes

vis NO
CO
ane
aaa | i

“fads” and ‘‘fancies”’

8. Do you avoid taking your date to a drive-in movie because
you don't want her to feel she's a captive audience?

The best tobacco makes the
