FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1958

a

9% BY
i GEORGE RAMSEY

* ALL STARS *

The Kappa Sigma basketball team, fresh from run-
ning through the rugged interfraternity hardwood gaunt-
let unscathed, will take the floor next Wednesday night
at 8 o'clock in an attempt to preserve its spotless record
and a 12-game winning streak against an all-star team
chosen from the other squads. _ .

The all-star squad will be composed of the top ten
players in the league, other than Kappa Sigs, as select-
ed by the interfraternity players themselves. The play-
er-chosen all-I-F team is named below.

Sigma Nu Charlie Davis and KA Sill Ferguson,
who have averaged over 24 points per game, will
head a prolific all-star squad, which will put on the
floor a starting five which has averaged 89.7 points
per game this season.

Other members of the starting five will be Freddy
Lane, Beta, who is named honorary captain of the dream
team. by virtue of receiving the greatest number of play-
er votes; Don Killian, Sigma Chi and Dave Bradford,
SAE.

The second five, also determined by the number of
votes received, are Fred Streetman, K.A: Ben Harris,
Phi Delt; Angus McBryde, Phi Delt: Ralph Bright, SAE;
and Bobby Thompson, Phi Gam.

Semi Mintz, varsity scoring leader, will coach the
all-star squad.

To combat the star-studded opposition, the Kap-
pa Sigs will be able to start a team including five

° players mentioned on the all-star team, and two of
the league’s top fifteen scorers.

With an enviable perfect record during the sea-
son tucked under their belts, the Kappa Sigs, the first
I-F team to finish undefeated since the Sigma Chis turned
the trick in 1951, will be out to capture another head-
piece for the trophy room.

A game featuring the best of the intramural ball
players warrants a good turnout for what should be one
of the highlights of the I-F sports year.

First Team
Freddy Lane, Beta (capt.)
Charlie Davis, SN
Bill Ferguson, KA
John-Morgan, KS Bill Joyner, KS
Don Killian, SX Ber Harris, Phi Delt

HONORABLE MENTION: Steve Edwards, KS; Angus
McBryde, Phi Delt; Ken Owens, KS; Ralph Bright, SAE;
Bobby Thompson, Phi Gam.

LF SCORING LEADERS

Second Team
Dave Bradford, SAE
Don McQueen, KS
Fred Streetman, KA

Games Total
Name Played Points Average
1. Charlie Davis, SN 10 242 24.2
2. Bill Ferguson, KA 8 193 24.1
3. Don Killian, SX 12 192 16.0
-4, Freddy Lane, Beta 12 189 15.8
5. Russ Ferrell, SPE 10 155 15.5
6. Ed Lewis, ATO 10 140 14.0
7. Ben Harris, Phi Delt 10 130 13.0
8. Quinton Boyd, Pi Kapp ='11 138 12.5
9. Ralph Bright, SAE 10 124 12.4
10. Tom Ridenhour, PhiGam 9 WI 12.3
11. Owens, KS 11.7 ppg 16. Hart, SX 9.8 ppg
12. Joyner, KS 11.5 ppg 17. Bradford, SAE 9.6 ppg
13. Patterson, SX 11.2 ppg 13. Benson, ATO 9.2 ppg
Lide, Pi Kapp 11.2 ppg 19. Bridgers, SX 89 ppg
14. Streetman, KA 10.7 ppg 20. Poindexter, P-D 8.4 ppg
18. Nash, Pi Kapp 10.3 ppg

” THERE WAS
SOMETHING ELSE
| WAS ABOUT TO

NE SHOULD'VE MENTIONED THE NEW CRUSH-PROOF 80X,700 / wp

———

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonien Sports Writer
The balmy breezes of

March were followed by an-
other sure sign of spring
last week. as the crack of
bats and the spat of horse-
—zz hide hitting leather signalled
the beginning of baseball
practice.

Davidson opens its 1958
schedule next Wednesday at
Hickory, against. Lenoir Rhyne.
Two days later the Bears will
return the visit and engage the
Wildeats on the local field. Da-
vidson toak two games from
Lenoir Rhyne last year.

MORE EXPERIENCE

i A a EH

Aavidsonian

ne

. °

—_=SPORT

tt

Unbeaten Kappa Sigs
Snare Hardwood Title

KAs Second In Basketball Race;
Phi Delts, Sigma Chis Tie For 3rd Davidson's starting nine next
Wednesday will feature more

The Kappa Sigs, after a hectic race with many UP-| experience than last year’s
sets and surprises, have won the inter-fraternity basket-| team.

ball tournament with a perfect record of twelve wins and

no losses.

On Tuesday, the, Kappa Sigs,
after a close first half, emerged
victorious over the fighting Sig-
ma Chi team by a score of 60
td 39. Ken Owen's rebounds and
shots under the board proved
to be too much for the Sigs, al-
though Don Killian played a

Westervell, Fagg
Pace Wrestlers

By BILL HELLIER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Boasting the best season rec-
ord in 23 years, Davidson’s
wrestling team completed their
regular schedule of matches at
the Southern Conference last
weekend.

Led by “Westy” Westervelt
and Dave Fagg, Coach Charlie
Parker's matmen compiled a
fine 5-3 record. However, they
were able to gain only a fifth
place tie with Washington and
Lee at the conference meet.

Westervelt finished his sec-
ond unbeaten season by taking
a first place in the 157 pound
class at the conference and now
has an amazing 24 straight wins
to his credit.

Coach Parker had only high
praise for this outstanding per-
formance and feels that Westy”
has an excellent chance of being
the first Davidson wrestler to
‘finish three unbeaten seasons.
i At the conference, Fagg and
Westervelt were the only Wild-
cat matmen to score. Fagg beat
Johnston of West Virginia and
Pledger of The Citadel to take
third place in the heavyweight
class, while Westervelt downed
James Crowgey of Virginia Tech
for first in the 157 pound class.

Although Fagg is one of the
three graduating seniors on the
squad, Coach Parker is expect-
ing an even better team next
year due to the return of the
majority of his lettermen, and
the marked improvement of
freshmen Mcintyre and Allen. .

MEANWHILE,
A FEW MILES

At first base will be big
George Hart, last year's leading

very good game for the losers. home run hitter.

, : Second base will be manned
On th ight. a hustli .
Phi “pelt team “lowned a very either by Richmond (Rat) Ruck-

erratic K.A. team 42-30. Dave}e® Who saw some action Jast
Page ‘and Bill “Red Ferguson year, or freshman Russ Cotton,
the K.A. high scorers, proved who has looked good in prac-
to be no match for the spirited tee. . .

Phi Delts who were led in Don Killian, a good hitter and
scoring and ball handling by|Probably the best fielder on
Ben Harris. This gave the Delts| the team, will be at short, with

ither John Patterson or Dab-
a very good chance for a second e . :
place tie with the K.Ass. ney Stuart handling the hot cor-

ner.

The Pi Kapps. however. Out in the pasture coach Tom
spoiled this chance when they! stevens plans to use either Bob
downed. the Delts 50 to 44 on! Groome or Dee Green in left.
Wednesday night. Harris’ efforts Shelbourne Wallace, last. year's
were not. enough to stop the) patting champ and this year’s
Pi Kapps who, led by Nash,| captain, in center, and either C.
played a brilliant ball game! ¢ ‘swaim or Dave Page in right.
right down to the final whistle. THREE PITCHERS

Then, the K.A.s, led by Fer-| stayens plans to use three
guson, rolled over the S.P.E.s pitchers, letting each work
with a score of 102 to 43. Rus-l three innings. Allen Moore may
sell Ferrell rolled up 23 points start on the mound, and Green
for the S.P.E.s, but he could not and Page will probably be
stop the K.A. onslaught. called in from the outfield to

On the same night. the S.A.E.s work a few innings apicce.
took a close from the Betas. de-| taroid Reagan. will start at
feating them 35 to 33. with catcher.

Ralph Bright leading the vie-l” With more experience than
tors and Freddy Lane standing last year, Stevens hopes to im-
out for the Betas. prove last year's 6-16 record.
“But,” he said, “it will depend
on our pitching.” Stevens sin-
gled out several players for par-
ticular praise. ‘Hart has been

Rifle Team Travels
To Conf 1 Med) hitting wet” he said, “and Kil
0 on erence eel lian has locked good in the te

Tomorrow the Davidson Col-| field. Also. this boy Swaim, who
lege rifle team closes out its|is back after being in the ser.
1958 season. participating in the} vice. looks promising ”
Southern Conference tourney at
VMI, in Lexington, Virginia.

Firing for the Wildcats
will be Dick Wilson, Joe

I-F BASKETBALL

. FINAL STANDINGS

Wearn, Jerry Gattis, Stan Won Lost
Gaines, Jack Lohman, and Pa Sig i 3
Don Harper. A, 1
Clemson dealt the ‘Cats a de-| Sigma Chi 9 3
feat on the local range Jast Sat- Phi Deit 9 3
urday, downing them, 1390-1353. Beta 8 4
Dye of Clemson was high for A.T.O 7 5
the match with a 285 score. Pi Kapp 7 5
Dick Wilson headed the | Oy 02™ s 8S
Davidson firers with a 282 Sigma Nu 2 10
highest individual tally of Ind 1
the year. The team score of ne ul
S.P.E 1 11
1353 was also high for the Pika 1 il

year.

HE PROBABLY MEANT TO MENTION

THAT WINSTON 15 AMERICA’S
BEST-SELLING,
BEST-TASTING

% J.REYNOLOS TOBACCO CC
WMCTON-SALCIO MW,

fond places in the high jump

JIM BOWNES, Sigma Chi, is shown above clearing the high jump bar enroute to a
first place in that event. In the I-F track meet Wednesday, Bownes tied with Burke,
also a Sigma Chi, for first, with a jump of 5° 6”. (Photo by Ed Stevens.)

Warden, Kiser Lead I-F
Track Win for Kappa Sigs

By HENRY RAMSEY
1-F Sports Writer
The Kappa Sigs racked up a total of 38.25 points in
the inter-fraternity track meet on Wednesday to take

Golf Turnout Boasts
first place h , as Dave Ward d Ed Ki laced i
fist mt events exc rer” ana 4 Sse lend Experience, Talent

4
Two of the Kappa Sigs’ big 55.7 second with Davis, a Beta, With at least five veterans
men, Warden and Biggers, took} Close behind him. | back in the fold, coach Tom
first and second places in the| Bownes, took his second win! Scott looks forward to the 1958
shot put event with Warden's[of the aay in the broad jump, 8olf aon in anticipation of
. ” event with a leap of 20 feet;a good year.
ret of 47° 10.2" leading the and 1.25 inches. Laughlin, Sig-
, ma Chi, took second place in
Kiser, took only 10.65 sec-

this event.
onds fo cross the tape in the
100 yard dash with Price close
behind him, giving the Kappa
Sigs another first and second
place event.

‘une number one club on the
links, however, will probably be
carried by newcomer Verner
Stanley, former Myers Park
of Charlotte ace. Stanley was
rated one of the state's top ju-
nior golfers, and Scott feels the

The Kappa Sigs took another
first when Kiser broke the tape
in the 220 yard dash in 24 sec.
onds. Ed Lewis, A.T.O., : took freshman can ‘“stick with the
second place in this event. | bast of them.”

In the 660 yard dash Ward:
McKcithen, a Beta, led the field
and finished with a time of 1

The Sigma Chis put an end to
the Kappa Sig stranglehold. how-
ever, when Cole led Ferguson.

Heading the returnees are
two sophomores, two ju-
niors, and a senior. Gary

K.A.. across the finish linc in| minute 36.5 seconds with, Heeseman, Sam Sloan, Sut
the % mile run with a time of| Quantz, Kappa Sig, finishing séc-| Alexander, Bucky Dennis,
3:38.3. ond. and Ned Payne are the pre-

season favorites to fill out
the line-up. Seniors Johnny
Mackorell and Chuck Fee
zor should be pushing for
posts in the squad.

The Kappa Sigs took the re-
lay in 1 minute 40.9 seconds
while the S.A.E. team came in
second, to wind up the meet.

Then. Jimmy Hambright, Pi
Kapp, took the low hurdle event
in 14.55 seconds with Tommy
Price, Kappa Sig, -taking second
place honors.

Warden's discus throw of 125
feet and 9.5 inches gave him an-
other first in the meet, while
the Beta's Carter took second
place.

Bownes and Burke, both Sig-
ma Chis, tied for first and sec-

with jumps of 5 feet and 6
inches.

The Phi Gams broke into the
win column next when Aiex-
ander ran the 440 yard dash in

"DIAL ED 2 22

4
2

Happy news!
The ARROW |

University Glen

This brand-new shirt style come
bines your favorite features: bute
ton at rear of collar, box pleat
in back and Mitoga®-tapered fit.
(See illustration.) In stripes,
checks, solids, $5.00 and up,
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Ine.

a]

ARROW—

—first in fashion

Check our
ARROW University Glen

group now

You can have this new Glen’s up-to-the-minute
University features — box pleat, button-down
collar both front and center back—in a wide
range of handsome stripes, checks and solids,
See this “must” shirt, first chance you get.

IVEY’S of CHARLOTTE

