Professor's Quote

In essentials Unity.
In non-essentials Liberty.
in alf things Charity.

—Henry T. Lilly

VOL. XLVI

College .

s

s 2 s

IFC Breaks Tradition
For Mid-Winter Dance

Ralph Marterie and Buddy Morrow and their re-
spective orchestras will play here Friday and Saturday, '
February 14-15, for the annual Mid-Winters Dances, IFC |
President Bob Jones announced today.

Buddy Morrow and his

orchestra will play for the

formal Friday night dance from nine until one o'clock.

Marterie will play for the

concert Saturday afternoon and} Davidson before; and both have

for the informal dance Saturday | played

for the Mid-Winter

night from eight until midnight.| Dances. Marterie was last here
Both the Morrow and the Mar-jin 1954 and Morrow in 1955.

terie orchestras have played at

Dr. John Bright
Is Vesper Speaker

In order to bring about this

two different bands for Mid-
Winters, the IFC arranged with
the Germans Club of VPI to ex-
change bands for the two nights.

In spite of this, according to

Dr. John Bright, Cyrus Mc-| pon Carmichael, treasurer of the
Cormick Professor of Hebrew] 1c, dance tickets will be about
and the Interpretation of the;the same price as for Home-
Old Testament at Union Theo- coming.

logical Seminary in Richmond,
Va., will conduct Vespers Sun-
day night at 7:30 p.m, in the
College Church.

A native of Chattanooga,
Tenn., Bright is a graduate of

unusual combination of having

RECORDING FOR MERCURY

Buddy Morrow and his or-
chestra, featuring Betty Ann.
Blake, Don Trube, and Dick

Presbyterian College and Union| {ohnson. are cirrently record-

Theological Seminary in Rich-

mond. He received his Ph.D. De-!

gree from Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity in 1940.

Bright has served pastorates
in Durham and Baltimore, and
for the last eighteen years has
been a member of the faculty
at Union. A contributor to the
“Interpreters’ Bible,” Bright is
also the author of “The King-
dem of God" and “Early Israel
in Recent History Writing.”

The Abingdon Cokesbury
Press selected “The Kingdom
of God” as the Best Religious
Book of 1955.

On February 2, the first Sun-| Popular Band of American Col-| days, beginning on Wednesday.
vespers|leges in a polt conducted by' March

day following exams,
will be conducted by Dr. Edward .

ing for Mercury Records.

Before Mercury, they record-
ed for Wing and RCA Victor
Records and made such hit re-
cordings as “Night Train,” “One
Mint Julep,” “I Don’t Know,”
and “Man With the Golden
Arm.”

They have also played at such
local: colleges as William and
Mary, Citadel, Presbyterian, and

MOST POPULAR BAND

Also recording for -Mercury
are Ralph Marterie and his or-
chestra. Recently voted Most |

“Downbeat Magazine,” Marterie |

H. Jones, pastor of the First} won fame with such records as
Presbyterian Church of Norfolk,!“Shish-Kebab,” “Tricky,” “Sko-

Va.

kiaan.” and “Caravan.”

~

[ EXAM WEEK FEATURE |

What, Me Worry?
Yo-Yo 21 NoCrip

By TOM KERNAN
Davidsonian Feature Staft
——the transverse, under-arm, around the hip, re-
verse swivel twirl, is, according to Dr. George Murdstone,

applicable only—

“Say, Flibbs, this Yo-Yo 21 is gonna be rough.”

“I told you not to take ad-
vanced.”

“At least I'm not trying to
graduate on crip courses.”

“What's so crip about Ciga-
rette Rolling 31? If you only
knew how I've suffered in those
labs you wouldn't say that.

Fifty pushups with the tongue,
finger exercises, tobacco crumbs
all over my tweeds, and the
taste of that damn glue.

If only I'd taken Piano Wax-
ing—no sweat, nice clean pianos

—in with the aesthetic crowd
—honor, prestige!”

TAKE IT EASY
“Take it easy, Flibbs—here,

have another cup of coffee. Do
you remember good old Charlie

N
Hartug? Never ,saw Charlie
sweat exams. Boy, did he have
a system!

I remember how he passed
Window Peeking 12. I was in
the same class then, just a fresh-
man an’ really sweatin’ the
exam,

Anyway, the day of the exam|
came and Charlie showed up|
wearing what he called his nau-
sea yellow shirt — made vou
sick to look at it.

He waited until he saw a te
la put his books on a chair,
then slipped in behind him an’|
sat down. Fella says ‘Hey, you
got may seat there.’ |

Charlie got up, smiled at him
and said, ‘Well if you know the
material, it doesn't matter
where you sit, but if you're
superstitious, you sit here?’

Fella made a 61. Well, Old
Bloodshot passed out the exam
papers and Charlie asked if he
could lead in a word of pray-
er—prayed five minutes, he did
—little fella by the window,
kind of nervous, started crying
—had to be led out. |

Exam got started and Charlie;
went around borrowing paper;
five minutes later, he upset
somebody’s ink while he was fill-
ing his pen.

Things were quiet for a little
bit, then he got up and went
out to the fountain—stood right

(Continued on Page 4)

oh

Week will begin with skits pre-

‘

The back or patio side of the new fraternity houses on Patterson Court reveals a

blend of modern all glass walls with the more traditional Davidson architecture.
At present four houses are nearing completion. Four more have been started, and

the remaining four will be started in the Spring.

IFC Votes Unanimously
For Hell Week Revision

At. its weekly meeting Wednesday night, the Interfraternity Council unanimous-
ly adopted a revised Hell Week. The new regulations are marked by a concentration
of Hell Week activities and an initiating of a Skit Nite.

The new regulations call for | activities will continue unin-
a Hell Week which will last five terrupted except for a Vesper

break.

The Skit Nite idea.is a re-
vision of an attempt four years
ago of having similar activities
under the now defunct Greek
sented by each of the pledge Week program. Each pledge
classes. class will be responsible for

Then the activities will con-| Providing a five minute skit.
tinue from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. 0n| he show will be free. While
Thursday. faculty will be welcomed, in the

From Friday at 7 a.m. until interest of Davidson's reputa-

Sunday at 12‘p.m., Hell Week|tion it was decided that no wo:
-}men will be admitted.

up will be preferential bidding.
He expressed confidence in the
system, but said no action would
be taken until extensive dis:
cussions were held after exai

12, and

continuing
through Sunday. ,

Wednesday evening Hell

Also brought before the coun-
cil was the proposal to have a
campaign for innoculating the
whole student body with Salk
vaccine.

Vernon Anderson was ap-
pointed chairman of the drive
which will probably.take place
the last two weeks in February.

IFC President Bob Jones com-
mented that the new Hell Week
rules “will make for a revita-
lized Hell Week.

“The members of the coun-
cil indicated that a prolonged
Hell Week had difficulty sus-
taining the support of all the
brothers.”

Forensic Council
Elects Officers

Spencer Mitchum was elected
president of the reactivated
Forensic Council this week.
Charles Ringe was chosen vice-
president.

Sergeant Shivar
Joins ROTC Cadre

Master Sergeant Mack E. Shi-
var is the new Sergeant Major
of the cadre of the Davidson
College ROTC department.

A native of Seven Springs.! In addition, he felt the new
North Carolina, Sergeant Shi-' policy would meet with faculty
var has served in the Army for] approval, “something which is
nine and a half years. certainly precedent’ over past

Until his assignment at Da-| reactions.”
vidson he was with the head-
quarters of the North Carolina
military district in Raleigh.

Jim Steele, debate manager,
announced plans for inter-school
tourneys to be held in early Feb-
truary. The competition will be
held with Wake Forest and Le-
‘noir-Rhyne.

a

Jones also announced that the
next matter the IFC will take

WRONG EMPHASIS?

Spencer Discusses Scholarships

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, for-| Dr. Spencer addressed the{ He was educated at Davidson
mer Dean of Students at Da--Men of Trinity Presbyterian; College, the University of Cali-
vidson, said in a speech given | ‘Church at a supper meeting.|fornia at Los Angeles and Har-
in Arlington, Va., Wednesday ' vard University, and became
night, that the proposed federal’ president of Mary Baldwin Col-
scholarship program will not lege for women in August.

solve the greatest educational QUALITY OVER QUANTITY

needs of the nation.
“We must emphasize quality

Dr. Spencer, now president of!
Mary Baldwin College, warned) rather than quantity,” he point-
ed out.

that the “emphasis on scholar-

ships may give the erroneous “The genuine concern for ed-
impression that our problem is
primarily one of quantity rath-
er than of quality.”

NEED DYNAMIC PROGRAM ,

“As important as scholarships
are,” he said, “the greatest
needs of the colleges and uni-
versities are for increased facul-
ty salaries, better libraries and
laboratories and improved fa-
cilities, and a more dynamic ed-
ucational program.”

Administration's program is en-
couraging to all persons in the
educational field, but there is
a danger that the people will
sit back and assume that the
Federal government can and
will solve the problem.”

“It is clear that the govern-
ment can do only a small part.
of the job at best. Personaily,:

solved at the local and individ.

DR. SPENCER

ye Hauidsontan

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
“DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1958

-ians New Science ;:all

ucational improvement in the |

Basketball

Hot Cats play host to Citadel
five tomorrow night. (See page
three.)

NO. 13

s ®

Martin At Press Interview Also
Says Tuition May Rise Next Year

“No commitment yet,” is D. Grier Martin's * observation on the purposed dona-
tion from a New York foundation of a new science building.

As matters stand now the College has submitted an application to the Dana
Foundation for a grant to make additions to the present science building.

Six members of the DAVID-

SONIAN staff met with the|The Chemistry department
Treasurer of the College at ajwould take over the present
regular press luncheon on Wed-| structure.

nesday of this week. Questions} The new building would con-
centered around the new science] sist of three floors, and would
building proposals and a report-{face north, thus forming, with
ed increase in tuition. the Union, a new quad.

Q. What does the College} @. When will you know def-
want? initely?

A. (Martin) We don't know} A: We have some more fig-
how it will finally work out. uring to do. We should have an
Our first idea was to have an] 4nswer from the foundation by he added, as College Treasurer,
addition on the present build-| the end of this school year. Mr. jhe will aid in whatever is necés-
ing, roughly comparable to that| Martin added that he is'sary to see that the decision is
being built onto the library. “optimistic” about the success implemented smoothly. Again,

E this has proved to be im-|f the project. m
|

any comparable college, he in-
dicated.

ENROLLMENT

Q. What is your stand on the
Trustee's decision to increase
the enrollment of the College?

A. Mr. Martin said that per-
sonally he feels strongly that
we should keep our. enrollment
at the present level. However,

practical because of different TUITION INCREASE

floor levels, and wrong propor- ¥
B prop Mr. Martin was then ques-} :-

tions in the present building. a c ;
in| Wuned about rumored increases) .

D. GRIER MARTIN

We are xow thinking . - :
terms of a new building, lo- in tuition for next year. Hisj ?
in which the biology and phys-|‘Cfinite decision has been made
ics departments will be 1 be placed. yet, although the question has,
been raised. He indicated that:
Spanish Clubs Hol be increased. the increase will
come from added revenue from
‘tuitions paid by students to. the
Sigma Delta Pi and the| The tuition now, he pointed; a
Spanish Club held their joint/out, runs about $500 a year,’ 7m
monthly meeting in the Green| with an additional $100 in fees. | ty
| nesday night. For the program) board cost of $1,145 is less than
‘four members of Spanish 51 pre-}|-—7——_—_ :
sented a play. Also slides on Registration Fees
by the school for the Spanish
Department were shown. Due January 29- 31 he stated his personal disagree-
*| Voluntary Chapel main al Davidson next semester NEW PRESIDENT
must pay their spring term fees: The Treasurer was next
on Thursday, Friday, or Satur-. sought out: in questions dealing
John McVay, Chairman of the|for late registration will go in-. ningham.
Worship Post of the Y.M.C.A.,{to effect after Jan. 31. Q@. “Do you have any idea
reports that voluntary worship} Students should fil! out the, whe the new President will be?”
examination period. nesday and = determine the} @Q. Do you think that it will
These voluntary worship ser-|amount owed in order to have! be anyone from the present ad-
vices will be held in Lingle|check prepared before coming] ministration?
at 8:30 in the morning and will} One dollar will be charged to! too much chance that.there will
last approximately 15 minutes. |renew parking permits for the| be. If they were going to choose
The worship services will be-| spring semester and seniors will! one from the present faculty or

cated behind the present one,|2™SWer (paraphrased) was: No

if the faculty salaries are to,

e 8
Meefing In Union {ccc
Room of the College Union Wed-|The tuition fees, room han|
bullfighting in Spain just bought
ment with the decision.
All students planning lo re-

| g day. January 29-31. A penalty with. a successor to Dr. Cun
services will be held during the/cards mailed to them last Wed-| A. “No sir:”
Chapel. The services will begin/to the Bursar’s Office. A. I don't think that there is
gin on the first day of the|he charged a five dollar diploma] staff. I think that they would

j ¢xamination period. January/fee is addition to the régular! already have done it.
22nd, and extend through Jan-| fees. Q. Has anyone here been ap-
uary 30th. Meals in the cafeteria for the} proached?

A. Not to my knowledge.
Q. “Do you have a candidate?”
A. “No.”

(Continued on Page 4)

The services provide students|spring semester will cost
with opportunity for worship|$187.50, which may be paid in”
during exams when there will/three installments of $62.50
be no regular scheduled chapel.} each.

The worship each morning
OVER THE TOP

Alumni Fund Reaches

$138 Thousand So Far

pressed interest in the Worship
Committee.
The services consist of a
short devotional and prayer.

There will be no vesper ser-

vices on the 26th of n the 26th of January.
Record-breaking results totalling $138,547 have put
the Davidson College Alumni Fund over the top for 1957,
according to an announcement yesterday from Acting
President Clarence J. Pietenpol.
ual level.” Since the Fund had grown}

“As high as taxes are, Ameri-| from $81,739 in 1954 to $125,-;the leadership of Don Davidson
cans must be willing to give|03!1 in 1956, alumni leaders set| of Charlotte, N. C.,.and George
vast sums of money in addition|a $135,000 goal for the 1957'M. King of Bristol,. Tennesee,
to tax funds, even if the Ameri-|Fund and are making a syste. co-chairman for the 1957 Fund.
can cducational system is only| matic effort to push the gift to- ” 1"
to hold its own during the com-|tal to the $200,000 mark each ANONYMOUS “ANGELS
ing years.” year by 1960. $6,000 of the $138,547 total

“Especially important in the A GOOD GUARANTEE eomes to the fund as a bonus
future will be the church-sup-} “This new high. in gifts for| from a committee of anonymous
ported college which will stand] operating purposes from alum-| “angels” who challenged the
not only for academic quality|ni, parents, friends, and cor-! fund organization to increase the
but for moral fiber and strength{ porations is a tremendously en-| percentage of alumni donors.
grounded in the Christian faith.” couraging guarantee that David-! The “angels” offered to con-

son can steadily move forward} tribute $1.000 for each percent-
UNLIMITED POWER in its effort to increase faculty| age point the 1957 Fund gained

“Man has in his grasp new!salaries and generally strength-| in alumni participation over the
and almost unlimited power.jen our educational program,”| 1956 record of 24°.

Our future will depend upon; stated Dr. Pietenpol in announc-! Since final tabulations showed
how wisely he is taught to use| ing the results. that over 29% of the Davidson
it.” The acting president paid spe-' alumni made contributions in

Dr. Spencer termed man’s|cial tribute to the organization | 1957, the fund leaders were able
breaking out of the earth’s at-jof over 150 Davidson alumni who|to claim the $5,000 bonus and

I prefer that the problem be| mosphere the signal of a new|have worked as class agents andj use it to push the total well

(Continued on Page 4) regional representatives under beyond their $135,000 goal,
