PAGE FOUR

~

Graham Allison (left), Bob McAllister (center), and John Packer (right) anchor the fresh-
man end of the rope during the tug of war, as part of the annual Freshman-Sophomore Field
Day fast Friday. Freshman Advisor Tom Cutting (right background) urges on the Class of

62.

Sophomores Triumph
In Annual Field Day

team was composed almost cn-

The sophomore class success-} third. In the 880 yard relay
fully quelled upstart. freshman|the sophomore group continued
attempts at superiority last| their winning pace, downing a
Thursday by defeating the! slower freshman team 5-3.
freshman class 27-22 in the an-
nual six-event Freshman Sopho-|
spore Field Day. |

ball players. while the sopho-
mores were not able to call on

Freshman hopes rallied with! the football representatives of,
a 5-3 win over the sophomores
in the tug of war and another
victory in the shuttle hurdle re-

| lay.

Sophomores Ed Garrett and NEAR RIOT

Robert Kizer led their class-
mates to a 81 lead in the ini-
tial 100 yard. dash, Anderson
Sherrill dragged freshman |
hopes behind him by placing

Martin Announces
New Guide Service

President D. Grier Martin an-
nounced on Wednesday, Octo-
ber 15, the institution of a new

John Nix expressed. concern
Entering the volleyball con-| over the one unpleasant occur-

test sophomores held a decisive| pence of the day, a near riot be-
19-14 lead over the underdog | tween
freshmen. i twee

freshmen and sopho-

In the best, two-out-of-three | 5¢ a large homemade “class of
volleyball match freshmen col-), vr ‘eld i ,
lected a third 3-3 win over the! 62” flag on the field immedi-
sophomores, but fell to final de-. ately after the freshman win
feat under a one touchdown in the tug of war event.
sophomore win. in the flicker- though nothing seriou.
| Pall event. , veloped.” Nix quoted. “the dis-
LARGE TURNOUT ‘turbance could. have gotten out!
guide service for campus guests . of hand and seriously endang-
which will be conducted by Mrs.| Court of Control Judge John ered -future freshman sopho-
Harold Westervelt of the Presi-! Nix stated. a the end of the more games being held”
‘ ice. Fifteen or thirty: Field Day that he was quite
seat tours ain be provided: pleased by the spirit. displayed Freshmen were required to

: . wear coat and tie on Monday
to prospective students. their; by the class of 1962. although ' ' { nay
families, and to other guests of| it did not win the contest. “The ant neesy of ins week as

ishment for losing in the
the faculty and staff. p

large turnout of freshmen and,
their support of their class at'Freshman-Sophomore Field

the Freshman-Sophomore Field Day. John Nix’ remarked early

Day is a sign that the freshmen! this week that he was pleased)

can unite as a group when they ‘© see that the freshmen ob-
want to.” Nix said. served this regulation in a ma-

ture, respectable manner.

Tours will include buildings
and other features of interest
on the campus. It does not re-
place those courtesies which
are already available but makes

HE DAVIDSONIAN

T

Student Council Holds

Forum On New Court

A forum for further discussion of the proposed
Honor Court was held Tuesday night, November 4, at
7:30. John Kuykendall, President of the Student Coun-
cil, and senior members Richard Brubaker and Roy Gil-
bert led the discussion.

Kuykendall outlined tentative
plans for creation of the Honor
Court. and discussion ‘centered
around advantages of the pro-

for another office without re-
signing from the Honor Court
until. he be elected to the other
office.

tirely of first-year varsity foot- plan would aliow a man to run |

— |

‘regular

: mores caused by the appearance |!

it possible to extend hospitality
in a larger number of situa-
tions.

The guide service will be
available to guests of the stu-
dents if, under certain condi-

“Both the freshmen and the
sophomores seemed very well
prepared for the events,” Nix
continued. ‘The fact that dark-
ness set in while the flickerball]
game was being played definite-:
ly influenced the outcome of

With the holding of the!
Freshman Sophomore Day and
the subsequent wearing of coats
and ties by the freshmen the
Court of Control ended its du-
ties as a disciplinary body for
freshmen. All freshman rules

tions, the student himself is un-
able to extend this courtesy to
a guest. Those persons interest- this sophomore victory,” he ex-
ed in arranging a tour should plained |
get in touch with Mrs. Wester- , :
velt at the Office of the As-| Nix was referring to the fact |
sistant to the President. that the freshman tug of war |

that event. but the freshman

win in the tug of war offset and regulations are now out of

effect.

. Prints from’ the collection of,

Inducts Nine Memb
n uc s ine em ers Chambers Building from No-}
ficers came from their posts to join the National Society | etchings by such artists as Hon-;
to issue the invitations at ROTC drill. Georges Rouault. Also on view

Lewises Display
Mr. and Mrs. Owen Lewis will
The silver sabre of Cadet Colonel Sam Clarke, Jr.,! vember 7th-2ist. Included in the
of Scabbard and Blade. The annual fall tapping of the re Daumier, Joan Miro, Tal
will be woodcuts and etchings!

National ROTC Society Collection of Prints

be displayed in the foyer of

fell Tuesday afternoon and nine senior ROTC cadet of-| collection are lithographs and
society got under way as its active members went out Coat, Yasue Kuniyoshi.

According to Cadet Colonel!by_. young regional artists,

Those invited to join the so-
ciety were:

Cadet Major Sam MecGuirt 0
Monroe, North Carolina. Mc-| Place in two weeks. Clarke i
Guirt is the Corps S-3 officer, | “Captain” of the Davidson Col-| wr, Lewis is head of the pur-
in charge of Operations. ‘lege chapter, known as B Com:| chasing departmént of the

Cadet Major John Bennetf of | Pany of the Fifth Regiment of “Winston-Salem Journal and
Charlotte. Bennett is the Execu- Scabbard and Blade. He furth- Sentinel.” He is also president
tive Officer of the First Battle|er stated that invitations for] o¢ the Winston-Salem Gallery of
Group. joining the society are issued] rine Arts, Mrs. Lewis was the

Cadet Captain Bruce Wilder] 0n the basis of scholastic stand- director at the time of its
of Kingsport, Tennessee. Wilder|ing and military proficiency. | founding three years ago
is the commanding officer of| Other officers of the chapter .

“BY Company, Second Battle| are: Cadet. Major Henry Brown} The exhibit is made possible
Group. as “First Lieutenant”; Cadet] by Mr. and Mrs. Lewis and Mr.

Cadet Captain A. T. J. Mor-/Captain John Nix as “Second| Edwin Shewmake. head of the
rison, who is the commander of Lieutenant,” and Cadet Captain| art department of Salem Col-
“A” Company in the Second|Sam Sloan as “First Sergeant.” | lege.

Battle Group. Morrison makes
his home in Hartsville. South
Carolina.

Also invited to join were:

Cadet Captain Pat Henderson.
He is commander of “D” Com-
pany of the First Battle Group,
and hails from Maxton, North
Carolina.

Cadet Captain Ritchie King
from Greensboro, North Caro-
lina.

Cadet: Captain Vernon Ander.
son of Union, South Carolina.
Anderson is the Second Battle
Group S-1, in charge of Person-
nel of that group.

Completing the list are Cadet
Captain Roy Gilbert, and Cadet
First Lieutenant Bill Patton.
Gilbert heads “D"” Company of
the Second Battle Group, and
makes his home in Birmingham,
Alabama. Patton commands the
Honor Platoon, and is from
Brownsville, Tennessee.

f]men into the society will take|and James Bumgardner of Win-
g| ston-Salem.

AIR-CONDITIONED
FULL BATHS
INDIVIDUAL HEAT

__ FAMILY ACCOMMODATIONS

RATES: Single $5.00 — Double $7.00
Extras $1.00 Each

15 Minutes From Davidson

The Oaks Motor Court

344 South Main Street Phone NOrth 3-5693
Mooresville, N. C.

Owners and Managers: Bill and Hazel Sprinkle

and |

Clarke; the initiation of the new| among them Ann Carter Pollard:

posed Court and certain me-
chanics such as clections. Since
the Honor Court is to be a sepa-
rate body from the Student
Council wtself. separate elec
tions for positions on the Honor
Court should be held. Regard-
ing changes in election proce-
dure, an amendment to the con-
stitution. would be necessary.
Wonor Court. elections would
be first. since they would be
the most selective nominations
and elections of the Davidson
student body. Twelve members
would be elected this year, with
six to, twelve in years to follow.
According to one proposal, a
‘member of the Honor Court
would be required to resign be-
fore he ran for another office.
If defeated. he would can for
Honor Court again in a succeed.’
ing election. Another proposed |

Anderson Reviews

i. .
their class because of practice. | Dence Festivities

1 believe that Homecoming
| this year was one of the most
suecessful that Davidson has
‘seen. said IFC President Ver-
non Anderson at a DAVIDSON-
IAN interview recently. He add-,
ed. “Uo was afraid at first. that
the.band would not be up to our
expectations. but after things
'began to shape up. F was very

yenthusiastic and pleased with
“AL the weekend,”
de-}

After thé poor performance
at Spring Frolics last year. Les-
ter Lanin’s reputation on the
Davidson campus was at stake.
President Anderson was con-
vinced. however. that ‘the
“musie both nights lived up to:
Lester Lanin’s nation-wide repu-|
tation" He further stated, “The
members of the. band were very
conperative and showed no’
signs of ungentlemanly con
duct.”

Further questions: “Pres-
ident Anderson, do you feel
that Lester Lanin was a sat-
isfactory investment finan-
ciatly?” |
A. “For the reduced price. we |

sure that we got our money’s
worth. He sent his best musici-
ans and. I think, nut on an ex-
cellent performance. The IFC.
plans to use these Homecoming
savings in the purchase of other
big-name bands or vocalists for'
Mid-winters and Spring Fro-
lies.”

Q. “Why did the 1FC de-
cide not to have a concert
on Saturday afternoon?”

A. “With the football game
ending at 5:00 and with the tra
ternity open houses following
we felt that having the concert
would overerowd the afternoon

HI-Fl COMPONENTS
At Wholesale Net Prices

Across From Ivey's 5th St. Entrance

126 West Fifth St.

Daily Pit-Cooked
BARBECUE...

Hickory Pit-Cooked Steaks
Country Ham and Chicken-In-Basket

COMPLETE MEALS

“Take Home Service”

All Kinds of Sandwiches . . Thick Milk Shakes

The Connoisseur

“MOORESVILLE’S F
Roy Church
Salisbury Drive

Sanaa ee nana

“As of this year,” Kuykendall
stated, “there are eight men in
Student Council positions who
will return next year, five jun-
iors and three sophomores. We
can count on their 100 per cent
participation in one of the two
bodies. The members interested
more in the judicial than in the
legislative affairs of the Stu-
dent. Council will run for the
Honor Court.”

The forum brought out. the
idea that the proposed Honor
Court would help the Student
Body overcome their periods of
great activity followed by lulls.
and it would give the Council
more time for participation in
National Student Association
work.

Board Of Visitors

(Continued From Page One)

board members, the

executive committee of the col-

lege trustees was also to par-

ticipate in today’s session.

Members of the board are

elected to three year terms
and are subject to reap-
pointment. The basic re-
quirement for membership
is an interest in Davidson
and an ability to initiate
ideas and serve in an ad-
visory capacity.

Besides the annual full board
meeting each fall on the col-
lege campus. the group is brok-
en down into smaller numbers

the year.

The beard also assumes three;
public relations functions ac-
cording ts the proposal gov-
erning ‘the formation of the:
body. First, it serves as an!
“opinion moulder" to inter.
pret the college to specific
groups. Secondly, it reports to
the college the reactions of the
general public and individuals
and in the third aspect, it helps
Davidson achieve its objectives
“by saying the right thing at the
right time to the right peo-
ple.”

‘University.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER. 7, 1958

Davidson Students LOOK OVER THE SEA
Study In Capital (Latin American Happy

wcceveserIn Davidson And Dixie

this year, Davidson will again
have students participating in
By UB! FREITAS
Davidson Feature Writer

the Washington Semester Pro-

gram of The American Univer-

sity. It was one of those calm. silent, almost magic Flori-
For several years, Davidson|dian nights. A boat appeared from the sea and after a ~

has been one of a number of | blast of her horn, went up the river, bound for Jackson-

colleges which has been invited | ville. It was a summer night and the moon was full. While

to participate in this program.}the ship glided along the river, while subtle sounds and

in which a limited number of{new sensations overcame me, I remembered my life, my

students can have first hand:country and the purposes that made me come to the

contact with the national; United States.

capital’s personalities, institu-} I was born in one of those
tions, and source materials. The | little but charming praziian
. towns right in the middle of the
students who are selected for State of Bahia. w My city has
this work will attend the School) changed quite a bit. People ar-
of Social Sciences and Publicjrive. some leave, perhaps my
Affairs of the American Univer-|city has already forgotten me,
sity, receiving credit toward but I will never forget the

. . small town I left almost ten
their Davidson degrees for the years ago. The little boy got ol-

work done. This program is/der, chose a career, he left
usually taken during the junior) Brazil—
Far away the Florida lights

year.
flickered as if blown by the

The principal course is ajnight breezes. The ship ap-
seminar in which proached -the docks. The noises

the student |
meets with officials of the
White House, the Congress, and A few days passed. One morn-
other governmental agencies.| ing 1 found myself, entering Da-
Based on ‘subsequent study and: vidson College. I could see dif-
personal contact while in Wash-| ferent trees, I could feel on
ington, ‘the student prepares aimy face the fresh caress of a

. . . : misty Southern morning. My
thesis on s6me which combines dreams were not dreams any-

his Davidson major field Of| more. 1 heard friendly voices;

study with some aspect of n2-! since then I have felt at home.
tional government. or politics.

of the harbour brought me back
to reality.

By getting a scholarship in

In addition to this seminar,
the student generally also
chooses nine hours of regular
course work at The American

with another people and anoth-
er country besides my own. In
the very near future I intend
to enter Brazilian Diplomatic

Application forms. for this, Service. Then I will need not

i program may be obtained from!only to study hard. but also
| Dean Johnston and must be | to understand people from other
for area sessions throughout completed and returned by No
\ vember 15.

countries well, to know the way

you miss the whole idea

eeowovneeeveoeoeveevrevneeeonee eH eee oo @

Donald Russell

(Continued From Page One)
were, as well as if a man-
ner of thy friends or thine

own were;

Any man’s death diminishes
me, beeause | am involved
in mankind;

And therefore never send to
know for whom the bell
tolls;

tt tolls for thee.”

We all have our responsibili-

y. our Gwn separate part in the

challenge of life. We need it

‘wisely and courageously in or-

ler to hand on to our posterity

the whole idea of smoking

Charlotte 2, N. C.

sata,

G. 9, REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM, H.C.

Up front in Winston is

¥

That’s why
WINSTON TASTES GOOD,
like a cigarette should!

INEST RESTAURANT”
— Buck Mills
NOrth 3-2861

Completely Paved Parking Facilities

but without flavor—you miss

Stuart Mill says, “Men are men
before they are lawyers, physi-
cians, or manufacturers, and if
you make of them capable and
sensible men, they will make of
themselves capable and _ sensi-
ble lawyers and_ physicians."
This, of course, is only possible
through a sound. sensible and
practical education. A young
fellow in order to become a
sensible man needs not only
hard study; he must know <all
aspects of life. American
schools, I ‘believe: give us this
opportunity. I want to live and
associate among the people to
get to know their virtues and
weaknesses, their problems and’
points of view.

IT am happy I came to David-
son. Among these friendly fel-
lows who know how to smile
and sing Dixie, who study hard

during the week, but know how
to date on Saturday nights, J
will learn, better than in many
other places, how true Ameri-

the United States I am having! cans’ behave, what. their dreams
the chance to get acquainted, and aspirations are.

Within one year I will be
leaving this campus. I will say
good-bye to those faces, trees
and voices. —New students will
come — There will be other
smiles—The years will pass —
But still deep inside of me the
happy memories of Davidson

they live and think. As John! and all of you will stay.

A watch is to tell time
but without hands... —S,

of a watch

oo oer eeone eee

A cigarette is to smoke

Li

©,

(/,

OF}
Car re OO N]

it's whats
up front
that counts

@))

NxG)
