FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1958

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Keydets, Cats Vie In Homecoming Tilt:

Davidson Tops Se a gee 12

eff i | md

By “B” MILLNER
Davidson's high-riding Wild-
cats meet the unbeaten Keydets

of Virginia Military Institute
tomorrow in a Homecoming
spectacle which could be the
game of the year for both
teams.

Last week the ‘Cats thun-
dered over Carson-Newman de-
fenses for 334 yards in a 41-12
shellacking. A rock-ribbed de-
fensive line led by Craig Wall
smothered the Eagle ground at-
tack in allowing them only 43;
yards rushing.

A fine running attack was
keyed by halfbacks George Hart.
Paul Barbee and Wall who were
often sprung loose by fullback
Dave Warden's timely blocking.
This, combined with the thread-
needle passing of Tee Redding
and Charlie Benson, made up
a balanced altack that complete-

ly befuddled the Crrson-New-
man defense.

Tomorrow’ $s contest with VMI,
Southern Conference Champs
last year, is apt to be a ajfferent
story. The Keydets have not lost
in their last 14 games although
they have been tied twice.
Coach John McKenna lists a
letterman in all but one posi-
tion on his first two units, All-
Southern tackle Jim McFalls
spearheads a solid, experienced
line that has limited opponents
to less than 200 yards a game.

Geared by senior quarter-

back Bill Nebraska the VMI

backfield is without a doubt

the fastest in the Southern

Conference. Nebraska is

third in Conference total of-
fense standings, averaging
nearly ten yards a play.
Fullback Pete Johnson, a
195 pounder who does the

Pei

PAUL BARBEE, shifty Cat “halfback is pictured shooting

Newman game.

Mate

then ; *
6a aeleb o ate Rina wR

through a hole over left tackle for a T.D. in the Carson-

Belmont ihbey, “Piel

Succumb To Soccer Squad :

By PETE

WYRICK

After dropping two close matches to Duke and W&L,
the Wildcat soccer team redeemed itself in its last two
contests, by defeating Belmont Abbey and Pfeiffer.

Last Friday's game with Bel-

» : 1 mont Abbey reversed the pro-

a t By JIM HAMILTON cedure of the past two tight

s contests and turned out to be

Halfway across the continent a telephone rang. a scoring spree for the David-
Carl Snavely, former U.N.C. Coach, walked across’ son squad. The Abbey managed

the room of his Saint Louis home and picked up the re-|to score two goals on penalty
ceiver kicks. but were unable to gain

. control or craek the Davidson
defense.

Probably the most outstand-
ing individua] performance was
that of a new foreign student.
Wiecher Bergsma, who person-
ally accounted for five goals.

PFEIFFER GAME

“Carl, this is Bill Dole in Davidson. We play
Carson-Newman this week and they use a single
wing. Four years ago against Harvard was the last
time | ran into it. | know that you used to defend
against it a lot. Can you give me any help?”

“Sure, Coach. Now here's what you do

The conversation lasted thirty minutes at the end Tuesday afternoon Davidson
of which Davidson had two new defenses. was host to Pfeiffer for a.return

They worked. Carson-Newman only gained 43 yards| match. The local team had won
on the ground. the first match at Misenheimer

But, gosh, what a phone bill! by a store ot 4-0. me encounter

While we are on the subject of distance—Davidson first one ag. Davidson contr otlad
has a rabid fan in California. the ball mest of the time.

His name is Walter Hebda and for the last three

half, the Wildcats had a

1-0 lead. This was increased

during the second half as

they went on to win by a

margin of 4-0 again.

The Davidson offensive was
led by Bergsma with two goals
and by Newt Quantz and Tom
Johnson who each scored once.

‘STATE TODAY

Today's action should once
again revert to the close,hard
fought match such as the Wild-
cats encountered with W&L and
Duke as the Davidson team runs
up against an Atlantic Coast
Conference foe, N. C. State. Da-
vidson will be seeking its first
victory over State, having lost
their two previous encounters.

With more experienced men
on the Wildcat squad this year,
this Homecoming tilt may see
the red and black emerge on
i top.

Toug th Line To
Challeng

e VMI.

One of the prime reasons for Davidson's so-far-sue-
cessful season has been the outstanding performance of

the Wildcat line. With abil

ity and determination moti-

vating the play, the Davidson linemen have knitted into

a solid forward wall.
Competition for the top
spots has been so close that
there are three men who
could be listed as regulars
for the two end slots.
Sophomore Danny House
has perhaps been the out-
standing performer in this
half-season at end. House js
the leading pass receiver in
the Southern Conference.
Jim Bloomfield and Harold
Westervelt are vying for the
other end position. Bloomfield,
a rising junior who Iettered as
a ‘sophomore, has _ performed
with a great show of ability.

Alternate captain Charlie
James and Paul Biggers have

given much solidity to the line:

at. guards. James. a four year
letterman, is a versatile lineman
] who - is good on both offense
and defense. but is considered
better on offense.

Biggers, like James a sen-
ior, is a three year letter-
man. His 240 pounds have
helped him to become a
topnotch defensive pillar

Johnny
Crute, a sophomore, is con-
sidered by Dole as an in-
dispensable replacement at

hundred in 9.7 seconds, has
adequately filled the shoes
of All-SC Sem Woolwine,
VMI's main fess from last
year. Another 9.7 sprinter,
halfback Sam Horner, is the
conference’s leading
ground gainer, marking up
some seven yards a carry.
Other backfield aces

on 23 of 46 attempts.

The Cat flingers have an
eager receiver in sopho-
more end Danny House who
has gobbled up twelve pass-
es in four gemes for 156
yards.

Coach Bill Dole, as usual, was
close-mouthed about predicting

UP] an outcome. He seemed to be

Coach McKenna's sleeve are! optimistic, however, especially
halfbacks Johnny Engels and{in view of the fine showing in
Art Brandiff, and fullback Vernj the Carson-Newman game. “All

Keefer. Second unit quarter.
back Bobby Roos is just about
as potent as Nebraska.

If statistics are any indica-
tion. Benson and Redding throw
up a better passing attack than
do the Keydet field generals.
Redding’ has completed nine of
sixteen passes for 4°'.600 per-
centage which is tops in the
conference. Benson has seen

‘more action and has. connected

F

in all, I'd say it was our best
game this year,” he remarked.
Dole went on to say that his
boys were in fine shape phy-
sically and would be ready
mentally also.

Defense has been stressed in
practices this week with empha-
sis on the. fundamentals. Dole
stated that the “no-huddle” play
would not be used, nor would
there be any other new plays.

se A Wd

he
Oe
“

AR

4

3.

“WESTY” WESTERVELT and an unidentified Carson-
Newman player go up in the air for a pass in Saturday’s
action.

Frosh Top Myers Park

This afternoon the Davidson varsity and freshman
eross country squads met Furman University and The
Citadel in a triangular meet in Greenville, South Caro-
lina. Fifteen ‘Cats traveled to Furman for the meet.

y

At the wend of the first
years he has written Dr. Scott wishing the team luck Westervelt, the senior football) guard. Park High’ School last week

and requesting a copy of one of the game programs 9 player-wresticr: ast year ac) Warold Bynum, sophomore we sau Coffe in -peak With newly elected captain Da-
signed by Dr. Scott, Coach Dole, and some of the players cumulated 186 yards on 13 pass ietterman, has stepped into the|COdition: BUl Coffee of the! via Gilmour setting the pace,
receptions. enter spot very capably. The|’Tosh squad was the only run-lin, tosh captured the vieto
on the team. J ¢ SP y capadly. ner out. Coach Whittle com- P © ry.
It seems that this fellow, who was once an ath- TACKLES TOUGH iron man from Iron Station, N. ted. carlier in the week that 18-43.
7% At tackle, big 6° 3”, 225/C., played the full sixty min-; MMC carier in the week that! wrne boys. really ran their

he was expecting the freshmen
to down the opposition, but the
varsity was counting on tough
competition from the Hurri-
canes and the Bulldogs.

lete himself, is now disabled and in this way keeps
in contact with sports.

Walter got his program complete with the auto-
graphs of everybody on the squad.

I don’t know how he heard of Davidson, but it’s
sure he didn't see us on a coast-to-coast television hook-
up. ‘

—Tribulations of a small town football coach—

Saturday afternoon after the ballgame, Coaches
Dole, Tucker, and Walthall went south to scout the Wof-
ford-Furman game. The trio arrived home in the early
hours of Saturday morning.

An undoubtedly well meaning neighbor re-

{hearts out and everyone of
them did a great job. I'm very
pleased,” said Coach. Whittle.
“Our freshman team has a
Bruce Usher, has becn Dole’s good chance of. being state
top man in the field goal and} Thus far this season the/champions. I'm priming them
conversion departments, and/freshman squad .is undefeated.|for it anyway. I'll match this
has also shown adeptness on de-| The fleet-footed “kittens” rolled] freshman squad with ‘any fresh-
fense. to an easy victory over ictory over Myers man team in the Carolinas.”

utes against. the Citadel and
pulled a 58 minutc stint in the
Presbyterian game.

Another center, freshman

pounds John Watwood, a regu-
Jar last year, has turned in
quick, aggressive play all sea-
son. Scott’ Lacy is, to quote
Coach Bill Dole, “improving
with every game.”

Alex Porter, a former end, is
also considered one of the regu-
lar Har tackles.

Do You Think for Yourself : DD (SEE vIMAT THis TEST Tetts

‘Sig’s Lead Race

By BOB GREENE

The ATO’s and the Kappa Sig's each posted wins
this week bringing their records to 6-1 as the IF flicker-
ball race continues to tighten.

for the Wildcets.

The Kappa Sig's took two one-
sided contests, stunning the
Phi Gam’s in a 38-0 match and
whipping the Pika’s 32-8. The
ATO's beat the PiKapp's and the
Sigma Chi’s to match the. Kap-
pa: Sigs in the won-loss column.

marked at Sunday School, undoubtedly intending no In other g this week th ak D Iy feel
harm—undoubtedly—that he didn’t know where n other games : e : Would you turn-down an unusual —_ 9 you instinctively feel a qualm ves [| NO} |
y Beta’s topped the Phi Delt's 4, opportunity if it would alter a ves[ | no[ | Ss when you walk under a ladder’?

Coach Dole went last night, but he didn’t get in until
three o’clock in the morning.
If the Wildcats beat V.M.I. tomorrow the coach may
well stay out until three celebrating.
“If we lose,” he said jokingly, “I may leave town
for good.”

20-12, while the Phi Delt's
edged the SAE’s 19-12. The
Ka's slipped by the Phi Gam’'s,
scoring two touchdowns in the
final period to win 25-21.
MONSOONS
Davidson's infamous monsoon
season seems to have struck
this week with Tuesday’s and
Wednesday's games being
rained out. As round nine in the
flickerball tournament opens

preconceived plan for the future?

When introduced. to important people,
do you act a role which is quite
different from the real you?

r
ves [| NO
Lo

ves[7] wo

Do you feel your education would
suffer if books and notes were
allowed at examinations”

ves] sof _]

a * s s * id

The soccer story continues to be brightened by the
playing of two new foreign students, Hermann Laimer
from Austria, and Wiecher Bergsma of The Netherlands.

If someone wanted to hypnotize you,
Do you think that a public official would you refuse to let him try?
should do what the voters want him

to do, even though he personally may

feel it is wrong?

ves[ sof]

rr

Laimer is one of the

main clogs in the Cat de-

fense. The ease with which he manipulates his big

Monday the top six teams are
closely grouped and the oe

jonship appears wide open.

a

Would you feel that you. should leave
a formal affair if you. found you

ves[7] sof

were wearing clothes that were

body and the ball are a constant source of delight to Can .
you honestly say you enjoy +
Davidson fans. ATO THE TOP SIX 61 & game or sport as much whether ves[ | nol | different from everybody else's?
Bergsma has been outstanding in the scoring and KS ~~ 61 [iz you win or lose?
passing departments. In his last two games he has scored| peta 5-2 Aa
no less than seven goals and is credited with several] KA . 52
iia Phi Delt — $2
a Delt ..
Do you let. other people tell CT O
SCHEDULE For OCT. 27-30 you what filter cigarette is ves NO
Mon KS best for you, rather than
Phi alt ie ATO making up your own mind?
Pika vs SX
SPE vs SN The fact is, men and women eno make ap
aad ’ Tuesday their own minds—who think for themselves
THE WORLD'S FINEST RECORD CHANGER Phi Gam vs Pi Kapp —usually smoke VICEROY. Their reason?
Free Literature Upon Request KA vs KS ; Best in the world. They know only VICEROY
Distributed by an vs x has a thinking man’s filler and a smoking
Wednesday Familiar man’s taste.
Phi Delt vs SN pack or *If you haye answered “NO!” to six of the

Pika vs Pi Kapp
SPE vs Phi Gam

above questions—you are 3 man who thinks

f
proe for himself!

© 1958. Rerown& Wiillamsaon Tovaceo Corp.

TTL

SAE vs ATO box. .
BECORD—canp Thursday : Sa

Beta vs “oN e e ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S
Across Erom Woy’ Sth St. Entrance wa" i The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows: riren’\s swonine mans Taste!

126 West Fifth St. Charlotte 2, N. C.

Phi Delt vs Phi Gam
