PAGE FOUR
LOOK OVER THE SEA

New World Becomes
New Dream For Swiss

Student Council

(Continued From Page One)

presentation on Thursday, No-
vember 6,” Kuykendall stated.
“Again. abiding by the consti-
tution, voting wilt follow ten
days tater.”

Next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m.,
a forum will be conducted in

THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Congressman Jonas
Lauds Campus Interest);

“Davidson has made a good beginning toward in-|
'forming the student body on political affairs,” were the | *¥
words of Mr. Charles R. Jonas in a DAVIDSONIAN inter-|'*

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1958

By PIERRE WYSS-CHODAT the Union for further discus-
The coast of Ireland is sinking into the sea. Our €YS | cion of the Honor Council and
remain fixed on it. but irresistably the Old World sinks] an that it entails. The Student

view earlier this week. Jonas, North Carolina’s sole Re-
publican Representative to Congress, is seeking re-elec-
tion at the polls next week.

over the horizon. Above our heads the fog horn resounds
with two long blasts, as if in a sign of a last farewell.
For some seconds my glance remains fixed on it, then
descends again toward the horizon. It is empty: a sin-
gle instant has sufficed to engulf a continent. Only the

wake of the ship troubles the perfect calm of the ocean.
SWITZERLAND The last winter in the moun-
iW is only then that a |tains. in a ski camp for the Fed-
strange feeling seizes hold of jeration of Christian Students.
me: at the same time a fear | where there were some thirty
of the unknown and an im- jof us. boys and girls. There was
patience of arriving; an en [even an American girl from Il-
thusiesm for the discovery of ;linois, a bit lost becausé she
@ new world and homesick- did ‘not understand French. We
ness for the old. And | be jdid our best to do the cooking.
gan to imagine to myself that |wash the dishes and hold reli-
1 really had not left, and that [gious services every morning.
all which surrounded me was | There was also this storm which
only a dream: little by little }had caused us to lose our way.
familiar scenes form in my [but which. once dissipated.
mind, and a marvelous round ; spread at our feet an admirable.
of memories pass through it: [sea of clouds from which
The last days at the Universi-| emerged shining peaks, and the
ty of Geneva, in the fever of the/sun. at its setting, which had
final examinations. the terrible|laid over the whole landscape
fifteen minutes given to us be-ja veil of pink tulle.
fore the oral examination, dur- The last dance at the Uni-
ing which nothing can be re-| versity, in its corridors; even
membered! in the class room. The whole
The streets filled with traf-| building was decorated on the
fie at noon, with a multitude off theme of a city filled with
bicycles trying to creep in| joy, even madness, where the
among the cars. and especially] orchestra poured out its en
the old tram car sounding its| trancing rhythms, from the
bell as loud as possible in order| physics Jab to the philosophy
to gain room for itself. class room. For this last night,
The fountain in the lake.| we danced, and danced, and
shining in the sun, under which, danced. ©
the children love to get them-| The rhythm of the waves re-
selves wet. to the dispair of|places now that of the blues
their parents. and rock ‘n’ roll. The dream

Council urges everyone to at-
tend the meeting. in order that
any uncertain points might be
clarified.

THEFT

Kuykendall, at the will of the
council, also made an announce-
ment in chapel about proce-
dures and precautions concern-
ing theft on campus.

Monday night. the council
suggested to the Court of Con-
trol that it use its own discre-
tion in setting up punishment
for the freshmen should they
lose today’s Freshman-Sopho-
more Field Day.

Trustee Executive
Committee Meets

The Executive Committee of
the Davidson College Board of
Trustees met Friday afternoon.
October 24, at 2:00. Dr. J. Mc-
Dowell Richards presided.
Twelve of the seventeen com-
mittee members were present.

President D. Grier Martin
made a general report on the!
situation and activities of the,
College since the last Execu-|
tive Committee meeting.

NO DECISION

Two committees of the Trus-
‘tees met on Friday morning
and reported to the Executive
Committee in the afternoon.
The Trustee's Committee of Re-|
ligious and Social Life met with

the College Religious Life Com- will appear on the Davidson, politics. Davidson has made a

conflicts:

He addressed
body in chapel on Tuesday
morning to conclude the “‘Great
Issues Series’ in Political
Phéught.” His Democratic op-
ponent, Mr. David Clark, had
spoken here the previous Thurs-
day.

Mr. Jonas centered his ex-
temporancous address around
foreign affairs. He said it is our
obligation as citizens to take 2
keen interest in political af-
fairs. Democracy is like a forest
in that constant replanting is
mandatory. He said our country
should have a bi-partisan for-
eign policy, and we should show
our disapproval in constructive
criticism only, as any criticism
is immediately taken by the
Russians to be used for propa-
gandistic motives.

MANY CONFLICTS

Mr. Jonas said the Soviet
Union and the United States
are separated by innumerable
economic conflicts.
academic conflicts. irreconcila-
ble ideological. conflicts, reli-
gious conflicts, and conflicts of
will. We as a country have made
an egregious error in not real-

Nell Rankin Will
Appear In Series

Nell Rankin, the Metropolitan
Opera's leading mezzo soprano,

the student; izing the Communists cauldn’t

be trusted.

We have failed to recognize
three trends in recent world
development. Eastern society
has started a trend to progress;
we didn’t realize the Soriet
Union had any strength until
suddenly she burst forth in a
blaze of glory. We also hare
been under the false assump
tion that society progresses
slowly in stages, but instead it
bursts forth at various unprede-
termined intervals. We have:
failed to realize that there is a
longing in every man’s heart to
be free. This is exemplified by
the recent revolt in Hungary.

The Communists have based
their policy on four points: (1)} -
(2) they are afraid of a revolt
from within; (3) they know peo-
their clue to victory is to con- Blasts To Victory
vince people to accept the status A Vanguard rocket, made
hopes for freedom. i fighter, won first place in the
STUDENT INTEREST judging of the Homecoming fra-
Jonas in the interview: mounted on its firing platform,
Q. Do you think enough in- | and preparing to launch a VMI
students in politics? Are they | silver trophy for the KA's Sat-
well enough informed? urday. Vernon Anderson, Pres-
dents can show too much inter-| Council, presented the award to
est. At the college level it istime|Tom Anderson during half-time

they know we won't attack first; Vanguar d Rockel

ple won't accept slavery; (4)

quo in order to break their from the wing tank of a jet
Further questions asked Mr.jternity displays. The rocket,
terest is shown by college | Keydet into orbit, captured the
A. I don’t think college stu-jident of the Interfraternity

for them to start thinking about | in Saturday's game.

Other awards were also an-

ee |is finished, but another is about
Court Of Control

(Continued From Page One)
private Court trials per month.
Although Judge Nix has been

to begin. long and entrancing:
before the prow of the ship will
appear Néw York. the USA and
Davidson. Little by little a new
world presents itself to my

somewhat disappointed in this mind. my fears disappear be-
year’s Court sessions in chapel, cause of the. kindness of the
he believes that.the sentencing American people.

of guilty freshman regulations! I perceive that you Ameri-

violators has achieved its ..pur-
pose, i.e.. making the freshmen
realize the necessity of their. al-
terinig their attitudes so as ‘to
integrate themselves as David-
son students. Nix stated that
the other purpose of this year’s
Court was to help in developing
class spirit.
Hat-burning

riots are

frowned upon by the Court,
but no immediate action
was taken to reprimand the
freshmen who participated
in this demonstration.
Judge Nix has admitted
that he should have taken
some type of reproving ac-
tion immediately after the
incident in order to carry
out the Court’s function.

Nix also feels that for the
Court of Control to be an ef-
fective body it needs a more
serious attitude of support from
the entire student body. espe-
cially during the chapel pro-
gram sessions. In addition. he
advocates that the period of en,
forcement of the freshman |
regulations should be shortened
to achieve maximum effective.
ness.

———

Dr. Huie Delivers
Sermon Nov. 11

Dr. Wade P. Huie. Jr. will
deliver the vesper sermon Sun-
day, November 2. The speaker
is presently the Peter Marshall
Professor of Preaching at Co-
Jumbia Theologica! Seminary in
Atlanta, Georgia. He is a Phi
Beta Kappa and a member of
The Kappa Alpha Order social
fraternity.

Having studied at Emory Uni-
versity and Columbia Theologi-
cal Seminary, Dr. Huie received
his doctorate at the University
of Edinburgh. He was minister

to the Cannongate Kirk
(Church) in Edinburgh from
1947-49. Previous to joining

the Columbia faculty in 1957,
he served for nine years at the
Vineville Presbyterian Church
of Macon. Georgia,

Following the vesper service
Dr. Huie will be in the student
lounge to talk with students in-
terested in Columbia Seminary

ODK

(Continued From Page One)
when he resumed law prac-
tice.

Elected president of the Uni-

¢ans are not solely “business-
men” as one often imagines .in
Europe; that you take time also
to enjoy life; that all American
women are not the Hollywood
vamp type; that you still know
how to walk. in spite of all the
drive-ins; that you appreciate
the finer things of life; and that
the American food is not so
terrible after all (except for
your peach salad with. mayon-
naise!).

One sees also that the life
of the spirit also has a large
place and has not been destroy-
ed by modern life: and that you

have a good sense of. humor, as|Committee and the Collece | sociation produetion of Bize'’. keen rediteed more under Re-| They
. ge | .

proved ‘by the following story
of Texas:. Bob calls John: ‘Sor-

ry..old. fellow, I have learned! Home.

that you just buried your wife."

John’s answer: “It was quite! son and. Street was approved as

necessary; she was dead.”
Good-bye until next week:

mittee and discussed the Ves-, College Artist Series at 8:15;
pers situation. There was no de. p.m., Friday evening, November
cision on. the problem. _7. in Chambers Auditorium, an-
The Trustees’ Buildings and nounced Donald Plott. chairman
Grounds. Committce recom: of the series. Plott announced
mended to the Executive Comit- that tickets are now. available
tec that the new dormitory be: to the public but cautioned that
located across the drive from there are no reserved seats. |
Belk Dormitory and west of, Other coming mutsicul activi:
the laundry in the area where’ ties were also announced by}
the Reid house is now. located. ; Plott.
This recommendation was ap-, ;
proved and the new dorm wilt, The College Concert Band
be ready for occupancy in the will present. its first concert on}
fall of 1960. It will house ap | November 4 at 8:15 p.m. in,
proximately 130 students, ; Chambers Auditorium. Featured *
The Executive Committee al-{ numbers by the Broup, under ;
$0 approved the appointment of ! the baton of Mr. J. Frank West
Dr. Frontis W. Johnston as Ac. "ange from “Toccata Marziale.”
ting Dean of the Faculty and 9d the “1812 Overture” by
the appointment of Mr. John B | Tchaikovsky to the Overture |
Horton as Acting Director of |ffom “The Pajama Game.” re
Alumni and Publie Relations, ;C¢%t Broadway musical.
RENOVATION ' On. November 10 the David:
The Committee authorized the , College Male Chorus: wil a
Trustees’ Buildings and Grounds PCat in the Charlotte Opera -A

ia

Business Manager to. remodel} “Carmen” at Ovens Auditorium.
and -renovate the President's} The group, with the Queens Col-
; ‘lege Choir. will comprise the

The Charlotte firm of Thomp.! chorus of the opera. Baritone

| Bill Workman, a member of [:
the builders of the new science! Yidson’s Class of 1962. will ¢

Court Of Control Object
(Ot Ardent Controversy

Has the Court of. Control succeeded or failed? Stu-

good beginning along this line.

Q. How can we increase in-
terest? !
A. By the formation or crea-

nounced at this time. Second

| place went to the SAE’s with

their huge “Charlie Brown” dis-

‘play. The ATO’s finished third

tion of a government club and! with their model of New York's

‘by sponsorship of ‘political de-, Times Square. A representation

bates and. discussions.
Q. What is the place of the

of one hundred year’s progress
tagged honorable mention for

student under twenty-one ‘in

the Beta's. It was a ninctcenth-

dent body opinion on this question has been very con-
troversial. Last Friday the Freshman Class climaxed a
rebellious attitude toward the Court in their refusal to

‘abide by the orders of the Court Judge, John Nix.

Because of a previous hat-I

burning riot and a lack of spirit
shown at the field day, the ef-
fectiveness of the Court has
been in question.

To find out how the Fresh-
men had thought of the Court,
the DAVIDSONIAN interviewed
several members of the class,

When asked what he

thought was the purpose of
the court, Paul Franson re-
plied, “To help unify the
freshman class, and instruct
them in the traditions of
Davidson College.” Do you
think this purpose has been
achieved? “Partially. The
class has shown itself to be
fairly unified by the hat-
burning and the resistance
in chapel, but the court has
been too concerned with
details and has overlooked
the traditions which it
should have taught. The
class can’t respect an or-
ganization that doesn’t have
the respect and support of
the upperclassmen.”

Bill Coffey suggested the fact

versity of South Carolina in De-| that “when the Freshmen came

cember, 1951, he resigned to run
for governor of South Cardlina
in 1957.

Dr. Russell will lunch yith
Mr. Martin, present student
members of ODK, and active
faculty members. A coffee will
be held in the Union after
chapel, at which time students
are invited to talk informally
with the speaker.

to this campus, they weren’t
Freshmen. Orientation period
didn’t treat them as Freshmen.
Regulations were not imposed
until after the first week, pun-
ishments weren’t very strict,
and the Court was never taken
very seriously. Next year the
Court ought to put the regula-
tions on the Freshmen as soon
as they get here. Put the hat,

card, and rules on. them from
the very first day and make
them realize they are Fresh-
men.”

Ah

. One Freshman regarded
the success of the Court as
“limited by the narrow-
mindness of several mem-
bers of the Freshman class
in that they didn’t under-
stand the purpose of the
Court and by several up-
perclassmen who, if they
ever did know the purpose,
forgot it and used the Court

Rio

building. ithe role of Moralis
tal:
as an instrument to buitd

up their own ego.”

The consensus seems to be
that the Court is a necessary
part of campus life but needs
to be revised and brought up to
date with, the present situation.
One big thorn in the Court's
side this year was having to
start after the Freshmen had
been “made to feel like guests
of the college” during orien-|
tation and rush week. Other;
problems were lack of support
from the upperclasses and the
attitude displayed in chapel to-
ward the Court.

Judge Nix feels the Court)”
feels hasn’t had the support it
needed, and that the court’s big-
gest mistake was not using a
get-tough policy on the class the
day after the hat burning.

By this time the postponed
field day will have been held,
and the issue will have been
decided one way or the other.
But next year?

©1958 Licasrt & Myzns Tosacco Co,

besketball game by one
player! They said it
couldn’t be done. But in
1953, 6°9” Clarence (Bevo)
Francis, of Ohio's tiny

wrote the record books
with his phenomenal
scoring feats, including a
116-point spree ina single
game. Bevo's season to-

political activities? century stagecoach compared
A. Participation around the,to a ‘rocket putting another
fringes and a receptive mood on!|-VMI Keydet into orbit, this

the part of the students. They] time ,around the moon.

should study problems .and, Work on the displays taxed
train themselves for the time| the resources of all the fraterni-
when they are eligible to vote.;ty members. especially the
Their principle role is to in- pledges. far into Thursday and
form themselves on political. Friday nights. It even helped

problems. ,to cripple the ill-fated Sopho-
Q. What does the Republi- imore-Freshman contest day
can Party have to offer young | Thursday afternoon.

people? Judging. which started at
A. The Republican Party eom-' 10:30 a.m. Saturday, was hand-
bines. the best policies for the; led by Mrs. Moore, Dr. Staples,
American people. Taxes have, Colonel Adams, and Dr. Bevan.
based their decisions
publican feadership than Demo-! mainly on originiality, and clev-
cratic. l¢ndership. There is a: erness.
more balanced budget. I believe! “This custom of the fraterni-
a government should be operat-. tics’ building displays. f o r
ed as a prudent man operates: Homecoming weekend has Jong
his business.
Party comes closest to this idea.' more svirit into the affair.

undred points in a

Grande College, re-

1,954 points.

ney

a t

Mrs. Walter L. Lingle, widow of Or. Walter L. Lingle, Davidson’s President from 1929
to 194, presents an American flag to the college in behalf of the Alumni Association dur-
ing half-time ceremonies at last week's Homecoming game. Escorting Mrs. Lingle is Mr.
John M. Akers of Gastonia, a member of the Class of ‘28 and retiring President of the Da- -
vidson Alumni Association. In the background are members of the ROTC honor guard.

The flag, which is of the garrison type, measures eight by twelve feet. It will be flown on
the flagpole at the front of the campus on special occasions when alumni of the college are
present. it is the largest flag now owned by the college.

The Republican been a tradition to help inject | Cote” a © registered trade mork.

|

Safe Deposit

John always did take things too
seriously ... like that habit of locking
his Coke up in a safe! Sure everybody
likes Coca-Cola . . . sure there’s
nothing more welcome than the good
taste of Coca-Cola. But really—

a safe just for Coke! Incidentally
know the combination, anyone?

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by

THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

© 1952, THe COCA-COLA COMPANY

BS

THEY SAID IT CCULDN'T BE DONE - BUT TODAYS I*M GIVES YOU-

DON’T SETTLE FOR ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER!

Change to L'M and get ‘em both. Such an improved filter and more taste! Better
taste than in any other cigarette. Yes, today’s IM combines these two essentials
of modern smoking enjoyment —less tars and more taste—in one great cigarette.

rar rarer
Fi dhanpeiae
ene A cet mn he me

ty cence penny

PliLrare
US6ETT 4 oftens Toencco en 3

