Sportstuff | 1 Wildcats Close Home Slate,
Host W&L, VMI Quintets

neal
Le

~ ad

XN
B
yp GEORGE RAMSEY

With the one ve rvEE K ibsidea, Davidson b Halfback, Goalie Two Post-Exam Losses
Andrews, Finney Earn'Give Locals 7-9 Mark

athletes stepped today across the threshold of one of the| ¥
most active weeks, sportswise, of the year. é.

Coach Tom Scott’s “exam-shocked” cage troops em-| f

bark tonight on a stint that will find them taking the ( uae | : ' By BOB GREEN
court on five of the next seven nights. oAb ‘\ . ade r Davidson's hardwood quintet prepares to meet Wash-
The swimming team, meanwhile, is encountering ~ al Ccogni ion ington and Lee tonight and Virginia Military Institute
four foes in a current ten day stretch. tomorrow in Johnston Gymnasium after dropping two
; By JIM HAMILTON conference tilts earlier this week. VPI outscored the
... And Interfraternity Sports | iCats 64 to 51 Monday while William and Mary swept to

Throw in a trip to the VMI Winter Relays by coach | When most schools inaugurate a new varsity sport a 84-63 victory Wednesday.

Whittle and the boys, a Monday evening wrestling match, they usually have trouble fielding a team of competent In the VPI contest the Cats, Four minutes of second half
spring football practice, plus a few interfraternity hand- ‘ LA players, but not so with the two-year-old Davidson soccer played to a 27.23 half-time mar-| play, ending in two set shots by
ball and basketball games, and you've got a jumping ‘team. gin over the visitors, but) the Indians’ Don Engelken,
agenda... . The Wildcats not only pro-jthat he hoped their selection couldn't keep up the pace as| showed a tie ball game at 35-35.
. duced an excellent team but | will be a challenge to next year’s the winners controlled the back-| The point spread which hurt
While the Wildcat basketballers slump, two of |? fostered two All-Southern' squad. He commented further boards during the final periods.|the Cats most came three min-
their numbers continue to shine in national rank- choices in Pete Andrews and that both showed a competitive VPI's attack was sparked by Gil-. utes later. From a 43-40 margin
ings. Semi Mintz’s 86.2% free throw average rates Claude Finney. spirit both in games and prac- bert who sank 15 points in the the. visitors bucketed 31 points
him a slot among the nation’s top five charity toss- a Claude and Pete were recent tice that was important to the sreond half and totaled 23 for) while Davidson scored none.
ers Freshman Bill Shinn’s shooting eye is keeping | 2 A Rly chosen on the AllSouthern success of the team. "Dave Hollingsworth led the thom the floor dasice their 50-
him very close to the top 20 in national field goal f - Se aly oo. is ae Aenea Ha nar . ° Wildcats With 15 points: followed point second halt. Roy Lange
ercentages ... . ° : vee VPIW | K hy Semi Mintz. who looped 12!and Engelken both potted 20
P 9 INTERFRATERNITY CAGERS bounced into the new Carolina, quite an honor con- rest ing ing and Mike Mariin with 8 Flot ‘points wch to bolster the win:

; Saturday night’s hoop engagement with VMI, clos-| season with opening action on Tuesday night. Above, SAE’s sidering the brand of ball played lineeworth 1 Shi b ,
ing out the home action for 1957-58, will be marked by: Henry Pharr and Roger Powell serap for the rebound. Sigma around Maryland and the Dis- Invade Local Mats eae bounds onieee a bed ners total.
the traditional Parents’ Night, at which time parents| Nv Charlie Davis (right) looks on.—(Photo by Ed Stevens). trict of Columbia. jseven rebounds apiece to lead Mintz-was high point man

o~ | . . the Cats in that department. for Davidson, hitting for 18
of all players are invited to be guests of the team, and- The rugggd Andrews was onc) With a 16-14 win over The: ‘The William and Mary gamc| tatlies with Hollingsworth
those of the seniors will be recognized . . .

of the five teft halfbacks picked,| Citadel fresh under their belts.! again saw thé Wildcats ;
rar ié Se s settin i i
a and was rated third in the se-|the Davidson wrestling team the pace and leading after twa thr point back. Mintn free
Carrousel Date Changed - a ers 0 | |lections. The solid 5’ 11°, 170-|hosts a very strong VPI outfit periods, 27-22, at 962 ver cont. stands
Glancing far ahead to the next. Carrousel basket- Pounder ro nee en here Monday boat * 7:30, | Coach Tom ‘Scott stated that
ball tournament, coach Scott has announced a shift in the . . t “al Smutherr Conferency  Rudick beat Waller Taylor his boys looked tired and that

. ee ! mates both in games and prac-|dividual Southern Conference as
date. The tourney, a pre-Christmas affair in the past, tice with his continuous scrap|champions, and carry a 27- and Butch Neale. Tugwell |e hoped the post-exam jitters
is scheduled for December 29-30-31 next year. Alabama and hustle. match winning streak into Mon. won by a fall in 5:57, and | WEFe Over. a .

The fact that Pete had never|day’s action. Most recent team, Rudick scored a 60. win. The games this weekend will

and Louisiana Tech, this year’s finalists, have been in-

vited back, along with Clemson. Two Eastern clubs, Pitts- By HENRY RAMSEY played any organized soccer be-|to fall before the VPI onslaught Milton Gee took the 157-pound |e crucial in Davidson's league
burgh and Army, have also indicated interest . . . LF SPORTS WRITER fore coming to Davidson shows|was powerful Auburn, 21-11. , class, for Davidson, defeating standing, and both teams prom-
In the other news from the scheduling realm ; ; lhis natural knack for the game. Conference runners-up in Citadel's Hopkins, 3.0. ise to be tougher competition

9 " The interfraternity basketball tournament got un-; Coach J. W. McCutchan heart-| 195) the Gobblers will be SIXTEENTH WIN than previously this season. The

the newly released 1958 football card finds William Westervelt then took his six-|Cats whipped Washington and

and Mary and Carson-Newman replacing West Vir-
ginia Tech and East Carolina on the Wildcats’ slate.
In 1959 Carson-Newman will be replaced by Lehigh.
Most likely date for Homecoming is Gciober 25, at

derway Tuesday night with four games being played. |ily seconded his selection and| favored to win the league L : is s : .
Both Tuesday and Wednesday nights saw good crowds added, “Andrews has been one| crown this year. Their indi- teenth straight win, pinning ice 86 wars and VMI tee m
turn out to spur the fraternity basketballers on as they}! the most durable men on) vidual titleholders are Bran- Chiletress in 4:06 [their initial’ meeting. All-Con-

f the team and is an especially! don Glover, 130-pounds; Joe Richie King followed suit in ferenee stars Don Flora and
sweated from one end of the court to the other, some) .oicistent player. turning in a] Heller, 137; Sherman Van. the 177-pound match,. pinning| Frank Hoss will be the mainstay

trying to star and sume merely trying to keep Up With typically aggressive perform. devender, 147; and Don Hill in 5:21, of the General's attack.

which time VMI will journey to Richardson Field... | the game. ; ance in. every game. He is an: Vaughn, 167. The first three " Heavyweight Dave Fagg Sonny Ferguson, senior
The rewards of indoor track will be reaped this! There were four games on Owens led the Kappa Sigs while| accurate kicker and good with| are undefeated in their col. dropped a close 5-4 match 10! guard, stated, “We've beat-
weekend and two weeks hence. Tomorrow the proteges|cach of the nights. On Wednes-! McBride and Harris sparked the| his head.” legiate grappling careers. —_—«_ the visitors’ Fisenburg. en both these clubs previ-

day the Pikas downed the In Phi Delts, Finney. who stands 5°10" and, In addition to theso four Fottowing the VPI match, Da-! ously this season but they

dependents 34 to 17. Parks fed weighs 170, accomplished the|champions. _ 177-pounder Tom! vidson will finish the season have improved since then.

the Pikas while Radford starred Wednesday night saw the/near impossible in gaining’ Burruss has been attracting away, mecting Pfeiffer and We will have to play better

for the defeated Independents. |R.A's. led in scoring by Fergu- fourth place among goalies in; much. attention this, season, and W'& L hefore the conference ball and have better than’
son; down the Betas, led by! the selection as a freshman. This;is a prime contender for a con- meet in Lexington, Va.. on one good half to win.”

of coach Whittle travel to Lexington, ‘Virginia, for the
VMI Winter Relays. and on February 22, the conference
indoor meet will be held at the same site. Whittle plans
to carry Marvin Bentley and Ed Kiser in the 60-yard

: . Then the.S.A.E.s, sparked by: . , a oe
dash, Chris Bremer in the hurdles, and Diggs Gramley Bright. walked over the Sigm Lane, 49 to 42 in a hard fought | js exactly the same recognition | ference title. March 7-8. ; | ‘The Citadel. F urman, and VPI
in the shot put for tomorrow’s action. Nus with a’ talley of 62 to 10, | ame that could have | gone|that Freddie Butler received FEATURE MATCH _ Westervelt will wrestle in the | will bo hasts to Davidson in

. either way at any time in the/tast year. Feature match of the card,,first Georgia AAU Tournament,! coming conference play and will

Davis was high scorer for the . oy 7 os .
Sigma Nus but his talent seemed , 82 Claude learned his soccer at] will be the meeting of Vaughn! to be held at Emory University] have the home court advantage.

to. go unheeded in the light ot | Then the SPEs fell to the {Christ School, where he played| and Davidson's Harold Wester lon February 13-14. The Athens, | The Cats now stand ‘at'7 wins

the S.A.E.s' outstanding victory,|Pi Kapps by a score of 65 to|for four years and was named velt in the 167-pound class. Wes; Ga., native will participate un-;and 9 losses for the. season: 3
Patterson led the Sigma Chis| 34. Ferrelt fought for the S.P.E.s| the outstanding member of his tervelt won the 157-pound di- attached. and 4 in conference play.

to a close 49 to 43 victory over|but his efforts were foiled by team his senior year. Ifis ex-'vision in the league last year.

the Phi Gams. although Thomp | Lide, thé Pi Kapps big gun. perience there seems to have! but has moved up a class. Wes-:

son played a good game for the s given him a sixth sense in pro-/tervelt at present. has won SiX-

defeated team.

Georgia, Emory Visits
Highlight Tank Scene ||

By BILL HELLIER
Holding a 3-4 record, the Davidson swimming team
plays host to Emory University tomorrow afternoon aft-
er having met Georgia in the home pool today.
With the termination of se-
mester exams. the Wildcat swim-; Hedley set a new pool record of
mers lit into a tough sehedule! 5:08 minutes in the 440 yd. free-
and swamped Clemson 54-32 last: style. Although outclassed, the
Friday. However, on Monday the| Wildcat swimmers showed plen-
‘Cats faced last year’s confer-|ty of depth in taking six sec-
ence champs. V.P.I., and. came/onds and as many thirds.
out on the short end of a 64-29, Coach George Thompson, still
score, jnot satisfied that the team is
Led by fast improving back-|in top shape, has been working
stroker “Smitty” Smith, thelovertime to get them ready for
medley relay team of Smith, Art;Georgia and Emory this week-
Miller, Joe Bell, and Bob Wynnejend and the Citadel meet at
won the first event against|Charleston on Monday.
Clemson with their best time of! Georgia’s tank team, led by
the yéar. This lead was never; Jim Bankston who holds the
relinquished as the ‘Cat mer-|Southeastern Conference record
men piled up a quantity of first|in the 440, invaded the David-

After falling to the Kappajtecting just the right part of|teen consecutive matches.
Sigs on Tuesday, the Phi Delts|{the goal at the right time. Monday's) méeting between
BIG GAME eame back on Wednesday to{' MeCutchan was also free with | Davidson and The Citadel saw
defeat the Phi Gams by a scorc|/his praise. of his. freshman the two teams split the cight
of 35 to 28. The spark of the! goalie, saying the team was for-, matches, but Davidson managed
tunate to have such a eom {to cke out a 16-14 win.

petent replacement for Butler.| In the 123-pound class, the
“te fields his position quite] Bulldogs’ MeGuckin decisioned:
well,” the coach added, “and he! the locals’ Warrison May, 7-5 |
Mitchum. A.T.O., played a. has proved an accurate and pow-| Bobby Mcintyre scored the
erful punter. We expect him toj;first. win for the ‘Cats, downing
| become even better next year."} Brodt, 9-7.
‘ Coach Paul Marrotte also Davidson dropped both
lauded the achievements of An-; the 137 - and - 147 - pound
drews and Finney, and addedi matches, as Tugwell and

a ees

The big Game on Tuesday.

however, was the tilt between|~"—
the Phi Delts and the Kappa|Phi Delt team came from Har-

Sigs. After a hard fought game [ris while Ridenhour stood out
the Kappa Sigs held a slim lead|as the Phi Gam leader.

until the final gun sounded
They defeated the Phi- Delts |
leaders in the overall running ‘brilliant gamé, as did Benson,
by a shakey score of 35 to 33./as the A.T.O.s downed the Pi:
kas 35 to 13. Taylor led the Pi-
ka scoring.

Overall |-F Scores

Find PhiDeltsFirst | SuUPER-wINSTON |
After wi rounds me ie P RODUCTIONS P RESENTS
ports program, the i Delts eee ee eee ee

are in first place with the K.A.s

te,

and second places in the remain-}son pool this afternoon to try onl : : —

: he at ly a few points behind. The ———= 3 Seen. NS UTS

ing events. to repeyt last year's victory. : ; a ; Dy N é
Freshman Tom Hudgins| Possessing essentially the flicker ball, wrestling. and swine ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL WE HAVEN'T im ( AYE, BYE, Bs \ 0-0-0

churned to first place in both}same team that the ‘Cats beat plete d The One That SEEN A ; AND THERES TALK \ HH

the 440 and 220, while Wynnejlast year, Emory University ° ; Bee »

and Smith took firsts in the 100/ visits Wildcat territory tomor-| The hand-ball and basketball
yard freestyle and 200 yard|row hoping to get back in the/tournaments, which began this
back-stroke respectively. win column after a‘ loss to| week, will provide ample op-

Against V.P.L. the Davidson|Georgia Tech last week. portunity for three or four fra-
tanksters gained only one first; In order to finish the season| ternities to unseat the top place
place as Johnny Scott pulled to|with better than a 500 won-lost} Phi Delts.
an easy win in the 200 yd.|record, the young ‘Cat swim-
breaststroke. ming team, composed almost en-

Led by Ron Hedley and Bill|tirely of sophomores and fresh-
Grossman, the Virginia Tech|men, will have to win three
team captured eight firsts and|of their last four meets.

The swimming tournament
gave the Phi Delts enough points
to put them in overall top place
with a total of 359.5 points.
Relying on the points from
flicker-ball championship to help
them, the K.A.s hold the sec-
ond place slot with a total of
341.5 points.

In third place overall are the}; THE LOOKOUT I5 THE 4 - : “ : WINSTONS EASY DRAWING Too

S.A.E.s, runners-up in the swim. Gay’ a j
Tuxedo Rentals ming tournament, with 312.5 Oe ope ag vere % f THE FLAVOR COMES RIGHT
points toward the inter-fraterni- , , ‘
ty sports cup. Gaining points
from their second place in the
t flicker - ball competition, the
a Sigma Chis hold fourth place
| with a total of 315.5 points.
The Kappa Sigs are in fifth
place with 304.8 points, while

e ° | the Phi Gams hold sixth place

i SOni- rl S nc with 274.8 points. A total of.

9 © ff/ 256.8 points gives the Betas the

seventh position on the ladder

with’ the A.T.0.s right under
them with 216.5 points.

In ninth place, with 133.8

points, are the Pikas, with the
S.P.E.s only ten points be-
TUESDAY, FEB. 11 hind, having 123.8 points. The

Pi Kapps hold eleventh place MATES, OIG THAT NEW CRUSH -PROOF GOX »>

with 122.8 points while the Sig-
ma Nus have 90 points.

BE FITTED BY

&. 2. AEYNOLOS TOBACCO Co.
WIMSTON-SALEM.N C.

