PAGE FOUR

DYING DEMAGOGUE

Nell Padgett Heads

‘Nimbus’ Gets Cash , [Kappa Alpha Order

Takes Off For Greens

By JOHN BERNHARDT
Friend of the Deceased
Preparing to sail off from Cloud 9, we have today
our dying demagogue. A scholar, an athlete, a lady's
man, and also a hopeful senior, he will soon wander out
from Davidson's portals to go somewhere or other. It is
to remember him now, before he is completely gone,
that this obituary is written.

The scion of an excellent line,, world. A compromise was
unfortunately, the line got!reached in the name “Nimbus”).
crossed, they got the wrong ONTO THE LINKS
number, and the result was our Today, our demagogue is en-
hero. ,joying his final semester at Da-

Once when he was only five | vidson. The snow melts; the sun
and a haif years old, he got his’ comes out; he leaves the con-
head caught in the bars of his| fines of the card table, and wan-
baby crib. He struggled for sev- ders out onto the links.
eral hours until his mother came' Where he will go after these
and turned him on his stomach links, no one knows, but in the
: oan? :suecession of cards and golf,

golf ang cards. wandering from

one green to the next without

i knowing why or where. For this
lis a man of exceptional talents.

;unconscious of the world of
other men but living on a high-

er plane. This is Nimbus. ;

FIND OUR DEMAGOGUE |

Our world today is in need
of a prophet. in need of a guide.
;Someone must lead us out of!
,our turmoil, and get back on
the smooth path. When this
:world leader appears to us, do)
_not direct him immediately to
j the Communist crisis. First, let
him find our demagogue and
q: help him get out of the rough.

future one may see a glorious
77/ ‘cards ant

mt x

9

Te i
|

instead of his side. His hea
slipped out easily then. but the!
incident so unnerved him that
he never fully recovered, and
his head has been-slipping ever
since.

TEACHER'S WONDER

In one town, where the fami-
ly lived for a time, he was the
wonder of all his teachers. How-
ever, one day as he wandered
forth to enjay his usual after- ; . .
noon of golf and poker he This ‘var.tion in estimated!
missed his course and wandered ©St is due in. part to the fact!
too far. Straight-way his. parents! that some fraternities plan to
were flushed with worry, but, US¢ some of the furniture and
knowing the mind of their cdipment that they already
young son, and the habit his have, while other fraternities
head had of’ slipping, they|Plan to buy most of the fur
picked up their full house of|Tishings for their houses,
sister and golf clubs and passed. Also some fraternities will
on to the East in pursuit. , have to purchase kitchen equip-
ment, while others will not have
to bear this additional expendi-
found him, playing golf at the/ture as they already own
country club. He said he was,the kitchen facilities they plan
glad to see them, but to wait) to use.

a minute while he sank his putt.! The fraternities plan to raise
He made it, from three feet out.| most of their money by solicita-
Then he asked where they all) tions from alumni and friends.

had been. Many of the fraternities have

There was only one solution already taken steps toward
for his wanderings: send him to raising money and have efforts|
Montreat, where he would nev. | e4 the results of their efforts
er get a game again. So off he! to be satisfactory.
went. Two months later, he wan-| BREAKDOWN
dered back home with pockets'

bulging, and Montreat bas been, ue
corrupted ever since. |ternities follows: $15,000—KA

|Beta, and SAE; $12,000—SPE:

TO THAT ‘SAFE PLACE’ |$10.000—ATO. Kappa Sigs, Phi
In desperation, 'Delts, Pikas. Pi Kapps. and Sig-
sent our hero to that “safe

the family ma Chis; $7,000—Eta Alpha; an
lace to ” ; 7.|$5.000-—Phi Gams. ;
aon me ie syoung Dae Most of the fraternities re-
settled himself down to his fused to comment concerning
books. Unfortunately, book-mak-| "he funds they have thus far
; * a ised
ing wasn't very profitable, and raised.
he acquired .a lost and uncer- This is due to the fact that

tain outlook. As he seemed to| ™49Y of them got a late start
look to the sky for direction, on their fund raising and some

: groups have not yet sent a let-
Hing in his pocket, some one| ef Out. specifically asking for
j money aithoug ey have s

compared him to a cloud. out letters introducing the
alumni to their needs.

However, the K.A.’s report

that they had raised over S6,-

000, $850 of which was donated

Frats Report Fund
Raising Campaigns

Several fraternities have re-
ported goals for furnishing their
«new fraternity house. These esti-
mated costs range from $5,000
to $15,200.

In another town they finally

The comparison was apt, and
thereafter he was known as
“Nimbus.” (Ed. Note: there is
a less poetic explanation of the
origin of this name. Some one|by the chapter.
suggested he might be a bit] The Phi Delts have raised
foggy. Another suggested he had| $1,800 within the chapter not
no mind, and was off in another|including alumni help.

The Latest In Spring & Summer Wear

____. $55.00-$59.00
___. $39.75
$29.50-$39.50

$14.95
Dacron-Cotton Slacks ____- $10.95

Batiste, Batiste Oxford, Oxfordaire, and Oxford

Short Sleeve Dress Shirts $4.95
Madder Print

Short Sleeve Sport Shirts $4.95
Challis Tie and Belt Sets ________ $5.00

India Madras, Bermuda and Water
Shorts _.

WILSON-WRIGHT'S, Inc.

“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”

Dacron-Wool Suits
Dacron-Cotton Suits

Sports Coats (cotton)
Dacron-Wool Slacks

$9.95

Neil Padgett was elected to
serve as Number One of Sigma
Chapter of Kappa Alpha Order.

Padgett will hold this office
for the year
1958-59. He is
a pre-med ma-
jor: from Ma-

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Stacks Desires
improvements

By ERWIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer
An ambitious proposal for improvements to the
college laundry was set forth by laundry supervisor
Clyde W. Stacks in an interview this week.
Stacks, terming the present facilities “obsolete,” has
appealed to the administration for a minimum of $10,-

Will Your Son
Go to Davidson?

By HENRY RAMSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer
“Would you send your son to Davidson College?”
This question was asked of forty students (ten per
class) recent]y in a cross section poll of the student body.

An individual breakdown of} durant. Cutting and Woodward
estimates for the various fra- voting “No.”

dl

rion, South ,,

Carolina. 000 for work on the laundry.
Dee iGreen. Stacks, an officer of the Char-

a sophomore lotte Launderer’s Club, returned

from Winter.
Park, Florida,
was chosen as
the chapter's
representativ e
to the Interfraternity Council.
Green is an active member of

last week from a _ launderer’s
convention in Chicago and re-
newed his plea for improve-
ments.

“Our present processing sys-
tem {s the same that has been
the College baseball team. used here for thirty years,” he

Howard Persinger of William. 5244: “We're operating with
son, West Virginia, was chosen | °ttsPmen t that is obsolete by
vice-president. Bob Austin, who | anybody's standards — war sur-

. we plus machines which were
was his fraternity's Rush Chief ”
this year, was elected secretary. bought after World War II.

QUICKER SERVICE
Hell Week

The improvements supported
(Continued From Page One)

PADGETT

by the laundry supervisor would
institute a process which would
cut laundering time and reduce
the work force by half. Under
The proposed ban on further’*he plan, called the Key-Tag
“Hell Week" activities was an-, method, laundry bundles would:
nounced at a meeting of the}/be placed in individual nylon’
Executive Committee of the! net bags identified by metal tags
faculty to which were invited. for processing, thus eliminating
all fraternity presidents and the, the tinse-consuming job of sort-1
members of the Interfraternity | ing after washing.
Council. The ban was presented The Key-Tag method wout
as a punshment for “Skit call for ‘new machinery and a
Night” activities. termed by the|re-arrangement of the present
Committ2e to be “unbecoming jaundry floor plan at a mini-
of a Davidson Ger tleman.” mum cost of $10,000.

In further establishing it's po-; But, according to Stacks, it
sition, the Council passed. by! would be “a one-hundred per
a vote of 10 to 4, the following| cent improvement.”
three point motion: The plan would provide in-

(1) That the Council favors,| gividuat chirt-wraps and more
as a matter of Principle. the! efficient provessing of small ar-
abolition of Hell Week. {ticles such as socks and hand-|

(2) That it be recommended to; kerchiefs.
the Executive Committee that} Stacks called the present work|
the fraternities be allowed to|on small articles “terrible” and}
continue certain pre-initiation| expressed surprise at the rela-
practices which represent a parti tively small number of student
of their initiation. subject to complaints received by the laun-|
the approval of the Executive dry. ’

Committee or the IFC. He voiced concern over the

(3) That some “Help Week" ac. seeming opposition to improve-
tivities be allowed to continue, ments that he has encountered.
subjeet to approval by the Exec- “There's resistance to change
utive Committee or the IFC.|here.” he said. “You can see.
Councilmen Woodward, Bright,: that.”

Fraley, and Ferguson opposed OBSOLETE EQUIPMENT

this mo Hon. The present laundry facili-
Earlier in the meeting, the|ties are used machines which
Council discussed the feasibili-| were bought shortly after the
ty of going on with the sched-| Second World War. Since their
uled speeches by the candidates purchase, the laundry has
for President of the Student)/pandled an average weekly
Body. work load which includes over
Bill Bondurant led the fight | five thousands shirts. ©
for a “business as usual” policy,’ Of the five large washers two
but other members of the Coun- are obsolete machines with in-
cil and spectators thought thatiternal washing cylinders made,
it would be unfair to the can-' of wood.
didates to force them to speak’ Asked how Davidson's laun
under conditions likely in dry compared with these at
Chapel. A motion was made tha‘; other schools. Stacks replied
no speeches or voting be held: that both Clemson and the Uni
today. This motion carried, Bon- versity of North Carolina have
facilities’ which are “far more.
modern ” He said thaf ths nro
There was no demonstration in posed changes ‘vould make Da
Chapel this morning despite | vidson’s laundry “one of the!
acknowledged expectance of one most modern in the country.”
by certain members of the Ad-' With the aid of a laundry
ministration. iworker in Jacksonville, Florida

{

_—— a
CORE 08 6 C4O:81ESED MRSEE- weve COOve-ant 1600 t08 CoERORe COED

homer
It was sa

when that great ship went down and the

last thing to leave the sinking ship was

a bottle of Coca-Cola, That’s because all

hands stuck to Coke to the end. Now there’s

popularity! That's the kind of loyalty

the sparkling lift, the good taste of Coke

engenders. Man the lifeboats, have a Coke!
SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Boiled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

“Coke” is o registered irade-mork,

al
en

©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

who uses the new Key-Tag
Of the ten seniors who were

questioned, only one stated that
he would not send his son to
Davidson. Seven out of ten ju-
niors said that they would send
their sons here, if possible,
while six sophomores thought
that they would encourage their
sons to come to Davidson. The
“down-trodden” freshmen
seemed to doubt the qualities of
the school as only four of them
desired to send their sons here.

Ross Smyth, (Charlotte, N. C.)
one of the seniors who was
and expressed a hope that im-| questioned, stated that he would
provements might be made be- send his son here because it is
fore the next school year opens,, a school where one can get a

College treasurer D. Grier' Well rounded education” and
Martin, quer'7d or the possibili- Gan “develop his character as

ty of future improvements, said. Well as his intellect.”
“T can't tell you what Mr. Stacks} Joho Trask, (Beaufort, S. C.)

method, Stacks has prepared a
revised floor plan and list of
needed improvements, which
has been presented to the ad-
ministration, So far, says Stacks,
he has gotten little support.

He attributed the lack of in-
terest to “resistance to change”
and a reluctance to spend the
money which would be re-
quired.

STUDENT SUPPORT

The supervisor asked for stu-
dent support in his campaign
for renovation of the laundry

to come here for the same rea-
son that he came: It is a “small,
Southern, liberal arts college
with high standards and is one
of the few left that emphasizes

bart me to say—that we’ll| said that he would want his son

start right away—.

“AH I can say is that we hope
to make improvements, though
no definite answer can be giv-

For QUICK Service
And G00D Food

—TRY—

SCOTTIE’S DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT

Salisbury Drive — Mooresville, N. C.

IN SALISBURY

836 S. Main St. — Making Salisbury Famous

moral ideals.”

Jim Joves, (Richmond, Va.)
wants his future sons to come
here because he thinks that Da-
vidson is the “finest liberal arts
college in the South.” And he
“agrees with the principles
which the college maintains.”

These three graduating upper
classmen were also asked what
they thought were the chief
reasons that make Davidson's
reputation as one of the South's
liberal arts colleges so strong.

Trask said that its chief as-
sets lic in the fact that it is a
small school (under 1000 high
caliber students) where the stu-
dents know each other. He also
stated that it has “top flight”
facilities.

Smyth thought that the size
and the quality of the student
body and faculty were the chief
assets of the college.

LIFE SAVING

All those interested in
taking Senior Life Saving
who missed the meeting fast
night report to the pool at
7 p.m. Monday.

SOCCER MEETING

All students interested in
playing soccer are remind-
ed of the meeting next Mon-
day afternoon at 3:30 in the
balcony classroom of the
gym. Spring practice will be
held for two weeks begin-
ning on Monday.

Fraternities

(Continued From Page One)

a more concentrated program in
other fields.

The ATOs, in keeping with
a local and national understand-
ing, proposed the biggest pro-
ject of those offered. Their
pledges will go to a nearby
church and build a stone wall.

Once again, field trips have
been made illegal. Road trips,
however, are planned for sev-
eral fraternities to various parts
of interest. —

FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1958

ID. C. Should

(Continued From Pege One)

ble as a uniqué mediator of
the Word of God. Religion is
also essential to a liberal arts
education, it is not just one sub-
ject among many.

“Also, there ave certaip basic
theological presuppositions in
line’ with Protestant heritage.
In the Bible there is the Word
of God to man, not just facts.
By taking Bible the student can
find political, economic, and so-
cial applications to this Word.”

WHY NOT FOUR YEARS

Q@. “If this is so important
why not four years of Bible?”

A. “Two years is actually a
compromise because the other
alternative, a one-year survey
course, can not be dealt with on
a level that benefits Davidson
College.”

Q@. “Do you feel that new
changes in the Bible curriculum
will be the most significant in
the last decade?”

PROF. MALONEY: “Wait and
see. They should be significant
in student attitudes toward re--
quired Bible. There is something
negative or deadening to the
students in required courses,
and it is equally deadening to
the professors who have to
teach the same routine each
year. The new elective setup
should solve this problern and
stimulate the professors to new
and varied study.”

OR. SCHENCK: “An advant-
age of the new changes would
be that a really interested group
should normally take the elec-
tive courses.”

RELIGION OVER HISTORY

Q. “Is there more justification
in requiring two years of Bible
rather than say, two years of
history?”

PROF. MALONEY: “Yes!”

DR. SCHENCK: “There is a
distinctive character and
uniqueness and the self-revela-
tion of God through the Scrip-
tures. For leaders of the con-
temporary world men who know
God are needed.”

Q. “Has the number of pre-
mins declined in recent years?”

A. “We have no way of keep-
ing track of this. Some that we
didn’t know were pre min turn
up in the seniinary.”

Q. “How long has Bible been
required at Davidson?”

OR. SCHENCK: “For quite
some time. In the old days, they
didn't even get to the Prophets
in the first year. Students had
to know the number of tent
pegs, ete. Then after World War
1 a survey course was decided
upon.

| Youll be sittin on top of the world when you change to LM

Light into that) [Mj

FILTERS

Only iM gives you

a oeere:

| this filter foct—
the patent number et een ee
ON Overy PACke vos | Btls M1 Av eti eso8c7

+. your guarantee of

0 more effective filter

on today’s LM.

USOETT & evERE TEeACCO CO

s-

Rainy cy cane

7

iff a2)

XQ
ra

‘Live Modern flavor

Best tastin’ smoke you'll ever find!

Put yourself behind the pleasure end of an L&M. Get the flavor, the
full rich taste of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos. The patented

Miracle Tip is pure white inside, pure white outside, as a filter

should be for cleaner, better smoking.

©1058 Liccerr & Mvens Tonacco Co
