PAGE FOUR

a alee

Shown above are Mr. J. B. Horton (left), Davidson’s new Alumni and Pubilicity Director,
and Mr. Robert J. Sailstad, (right), assistant to the president for college development, as
they examine plans for the Dana Science Laboratories at the construction site.

President's Assistant
College's Money-Man

By CHARLES ROSE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

In the southern end of Chambers on the first ‘floor are located offices. Offices
that handle the business end of Davidson College. Students pass through this dimly
lit area daily, to and from classes or to stop on official business in one or more of

the glass-doored rooms.

There is one portal in this
area, however. through’ which
very few students have any rea-
son to pass. On that door are
black’ letters, spelling out the
words ASSISTANT TO THE
PRESIDENT, and behind those|desk and talked freely of his
impressive words is a room. an| hopes for Davidson. he fumbled
office —.a very busy office.! with: his latest masterpiece in
There are three desks in this} the field. of fund raising litera.
office, and around the room are} ture—a’ spiral bound. booklct he
many boxes of printed material.! plans to “rifle out to key
brochures of all sizes and types.| friends of Davidson with the
They have. generally the same hope of securing the necessary
theme in one way or another—'money needed for the Dana
money Science Laboratories. On the

| front cover. in a very artistic

At-one of these desks sits—j layout: were the words —
sometimes—-Mr. Robert J. Sail} New ‘Friend. A Timely Chal-
stad “Assistant to the President; lenge.”
of Davidson College in the area; “1 am part. of a committee of
of college development.” His} about one hundred key alumni
gray suit. horn rim glasses. re-|now being set up to acquaint
ceeding hair line and friendly industry, alumni and parents
smile unmediately tell you that] with this wonderful challenge,”
this is a business man. Mr. Sailstad said.

plan is tied in with the Trus-
tees’ decision to increase the

thousand.
As -Mr. Sailstad sat at his

He went on to-say that Da- est satisfaction is.to know that
vidson has a yearly living en-j}as the result of publications and
dowment. “This. year we are out|special. events like the ground!
for $155.000 and hope to reach} breaking we are getting ready ;
$200.000 by 1960. This -endow-|to have, education at. Davidson
ment represents a broad base|is strengthened.”

“My job,” Mr. Sailstad said,
“is to coordinate long term de-
velopment and fund raising
policies of the college.” He
works with alumni, parents and
trustees to be certain that there
are leaders able to interpret the
college's educational program
on a tong term basis.

——,

When asked about his part in
the Dana Science Building. he
said, “The name of that build-
ing is to be the Dana Science
Laboratories and ‘we plan to
use the rifle and not the shot-
gun approach in raising funds
for this one. The gift. of Mr.
Charles A. Dana came as a re-
sult of Davidson's excellent
record in training doctors and
scientists. This work would -be
handicapped if our facilities
stopped expanding, and Mr.
Dana saw this. It made good
sense to him.”

The Dana gift of $400,000 was
accompanied with a “gentle-
man’s agreement” that the col-
lege secure the funds necessary
to complete the $625,000 labora-
tory Building and a dormitory

Fine Film Festival
Premieres Tonight

Dr. G. B. Watts will lecture
on the play “Cyrano de Ber-
gerac’”’ and its author, Edmond
Rostand, in the Ballroom tonight
at 8 p.m. Following his talk,
the movie based on the play,
and starring Academy Award
winning Jose Ferrer and Mala
Powers, will be shown. It will
also be shown Saturday night. at
8:00 p.m. Since this film is the
first in the Fine Film Festival,
the admission is 35 cents.

“Man With a Million,” star-
ring Gregory Peck and Jane
Griffith, will be shown October
16, 17, and 18, at 8 p.m. This
comedy, based on a story by
Mark Twain, deals with the ad-
ventures of a penniless Ameri-
can in London, who was given
a million pound note and then
set loose to spend it.

Representatives from the
Duke Law School will be in the
Green Room of the Union from
3:00 to 6:30 on Thursday, Octo-
ber 16.

The Student Activities Office
is co-ordinating the efforts of
various groups on campus to
present a program of both the
Republican and Democratic
eandidates in North Carolina
before the November elections.

Mr. Charles K. McWhorter,
legislative assistant to Vice-
President Nixon, will speak at
Davidson next Friday. October
17. im the Union ballroom at

Republican viewpoint on “Cam-
paign Issues: Present and Fu-
ture,”

Mr. McWhorter. a lawyer by
profession. was engaged in or-
ganizing Young Republican
Clubs all over the United States
before he took his present post
with Mr Nixon.

Mr. McWhorter’s appear-
ance at Davidson is the ’
first tangible result of the
activities of a new organiza-
tion on the campus. This
group, unnamed as yet, con-
sists of several students and
faculty members, most of
them connected with stu-
dent organizations, who are
Particularly interested in
bringing speakers to ODa-
vidson and sponsoring pro-
grams on public affairs,
and have formed a co-or-
dinating committee for this
Purpose.

126 West Fifth St.

8:00 p.m. He will present the

hd

¥

able to house 130 students. This} of support by many people.”

enrollment of the college to one.

“Ajlege.” Sailstad said. ‘and. it has}

Nixon’s Assistant To
Speak On Campaign

The committee consists of Mr.{coffec hour and discussion with
C. Shaw Smith, Dr. George Sta-|Mr. Jonas in the Union will fol-
ples. Dr. George Abernethy. Dr. !low his speech.

THE WORLD'S FINEST RECORD CHANGER

Free Literature Upon Request

Distributed by

Across From Ivey’s 5th St. Entrance

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1958

ance Parties

, (Continued From Page 1)
~ a)to hurt them at all. The only
! | parties we're. trying to discour

1958-1959 Honorary Fraternity Council Schedule

FIRST AND THIRD

ys *|age are those that would hurt *
a the reputation of our students TIME Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs.
and perhaps bring action by . Sigma Pi Sigma
the trustees. Sigma Delta Psi Camera Club Social
Since the individual private 7:15 . ' International Relations ; 7
parties, which Emmrich _ be- Student Council | Club (3rd only) Intramural Athletic Council: Fraternities
lieves are the real cause for the * |
problem. have in the past’ year TT 7 ; _ —
become less in number, more Eumenean Literary Society “D" Club
‘fraternity parties are ‘now be- Philanthropic _ Litera . . |
Pa ing encouraged. ; 8:15 Society ry YMCA Cabinet. ‘Alpha Epsilon Delta .
/ ., The only rule so Car has been ; Phi Mu Alpha
that of closing the Fraternity Sigma Delta Psi
x * ,housés at 5:00 Saturday morning |} __ ee re
moo . and at 3:00 a.m. Sunday. Math Omicron j ~
Dr. McGavock said on behalf ‘ Delia
ef his Faeulty-Trustee’ Commit: 915 Seminar
tee. “We are very hopeful, be- Kappa
ginning now with the Froterni-
ty Presidents taking the Jead-
lership. that we can get this mat-|f} — SECOND AND FOURTH ’
ter settled.” Student Council | Business and Economics
ee TS rae | Social
cm 40 a a a 1:15 Association
| . Beaver Club Fraternities
New Dean ' (2nd only) Seabbard and. Blade
(Continued From Page 1) | ——— ; —,
Reminded that the trustees | Gamma_ Sigma Epsiton Sigma Delta Pi Red and Black Masquers |
schedule for arriving at the in.. 8:15 . . :
creased enrollment called for Eta Sigma Phi | Le Cercle Francais |
the addition of about thicty {|}; ————— _- ne ;
more students next year and 9:15 ‘Union Board Delta Phi Alpha | Sigma Upsilon

asked about his views on hold-
ing off on this addition until!
aecommodations were available,’
“Dr. Johnston had a dual answer. |
First.” he said. “I think the
Trustees are the bosses. How-
ever, it would not be my per-
sonal desire to add more stu-
dents. Both from the view of
the physical plant and the
}physical plant and the teaching
loads. we can do a better job
} without the increase.

Sailstad said. “This money is; -There is definitely a place
used for such things as scholar-|for the small college. The rela-
ships. salaries and the general jtion between size and quality[this past summer. Puckett,
operation of the college.”

Mr, Sailstad taught English
and Speech at the University of | yond which all the funds con-
Minnesota and at Stevens. It ‘was! tain values from being destroy
at Stevens that he first went] ¢d.”
into the field of public rela-
tions and publicity work. |

Davidson has one of the best
organized. and most. successful
fund raising systems in the
country

Puckett Has

the forty men from all over
ticipated in the conference.

The conference itself consist-
ed mainly of guest lecturers.
seminars, lab work dealing with
the latest developments in the
field of embryology. and field
trips to various geological for-
smations in New England and
New York:

CCHMe

Trustees Accume
[Vespers Problem

A nine-man committee con-
eol-;cetTning the overcrowded con-
ditions of Vespers mict and re-
quested that the Trustee Com-
mittee on Retigious and Social} Dr. Puckett. with his wife and|
Lifé hold a meeting on Octo-ithree children, (James. John,
ber 24, date of thn Trusices’ and Ginger). took side trips by
Executive Committee meeting. }ear to Vermont, Lake Cham-

The primary purpose of this Plain. and. Lake George. While |
meeting of the Religious and at Williams College. Dr. Puckett
Social Life Committee, consist-jand his family lived in the home
ing of Dr. Craig Davis. of Ashe-'of one of the college's coaches.
ville. chairman, Dr. John A.| They also visited the New York
Redhead of Greensboro. and the Health Laboratories, in Albany,
Rev. Fred Stair of Hickory. will where thy saw the latest elec-
be to gather new information tron microscopes in. action. Dur-
on th: Vespers situation. -Dr. Ing the summer they spent
Staples expressed doubt that, ¢2me tim on the campuses. of |

“Davidson is a strong
the potential for even greater
strength and leadership. We
try to show everybody what
we’ve got because we’te proud
of it.”

With. a sparkle in his eye.
Mr, Sailstad leaned back. in his
desk chair'and said. “My great-

tion would be reached at chis}#s  Flarvied. Princeton. and!
meeting since the prablem -vill{ ‘ale,
[probably require considenabl¢| ———
adeliberation

The nine-man cortmittee, in:

Paul Marrotte, Professor B p.[Gluding Mr. Plott. chtirwan |
Thompson, Dr. Ernest Patter. | President Martin. Dean B#i ey.:
son, Dr. Charles Ratliff. Dr. w. |" Staples. Dr. Newell. Pro es
P, Minter, Jim Richards. Lamar | 07S Schenck and Evans, W. ter!
Higgs. Hugo Misle, Chatles O’Briant of the YMCA’ and Du.
Chastain, Tom Colvin, Tenney vid Kobinson of the Student}
Deane, Don Stein. and Pete Council, has not planned ancth. '
Sterling. er mecting because it feels that:

this is_a long-range problem
On Tuesday, October 21, jto be worked but by the Trus.
an all-day political forum

tees,
will be presented. Two
Democrats and two Repub-
licans will speak briefly in
chapel, followed by a panel bd
discussion on the political O Ou if}
parties and their principles
in the Union ballroom _~
Tuesday night. Mr. Henry an
H. Wilson, a Monroe attor- - Do you try to keep from getting
ney, and Mr. Hiden Ramsey, angry because you feel that emotion
@ newspaper editor from ° can interfere with your judgment? .
Asheville. will represent
the Democrats. Mr. William
Cobb, state Republican Do yéu like to “show your stuff”
chairman, and another man “ when you know you are really good
yet to be selected will pre- vA at something?
sent the Republican view- , | ‘
point. ,
Charles rane mene 7 Can you honestly say you like to be
: as, member ¢ entirely independerit of others in
Congress for this district, will most thing: do?
tOr , gs you do?
present his view of the issues
in his race for reelection. A
Tn the morning. do you carefully
ie ( } choose a tie, matching jacket, etc.,
yo Ne instead of grabbing the first thing
. Y z you see in the closet?
a: nen Pin

filter cigarette?

The fact is, men

VICEROY has @

Charlotte 2, N. C.

(ath, only) |

IFC 10 P.M. on Mondays

Of Study And Travel

Dr. W. O. Puckett combined business with pleasure

of a school is debatable. but{of Developmental Biology, attended a conference spon-
there is limit somewhere be-/soreq by the National Science Foundation and held at
Williams College in Williamstown, Mass. He was one of

any. concrete, long-range solu-! several lucge universities, such bHill Falls. Vermont. where. he

ion pre-medical education,

FOR QUICK SERVICE
AXD G00D FOOD

TRY

‘reffie’s Drive-In Restaurant

Salisbury Drive

for Yourself ? (

Do you ignore extravagant
claims and think for yourself
when making your choice of

themselves usually smoke VICEROY. Their
reason? Best in the world. They know only

smoking man’s taste.

*If you have answered Yes to 6 of the above
questions... well,

@ 1098, Drown & Williamsan Tobacco Corp.

we"

““CORE*? 16 A ALOIBTERCO TAADE-uena, CoMsteHT © 1148 THE COCa.CoLA COMPANY,

Summer

a member of the Institute

the United States who par-

ree ee

But of even more interest
than those, to Dr. Puckett, were
the small northern colleges. He
looked dver Amherst, Wesleyan,
Middlebury, Smith. Mount Hol-
yoke. and Bennington, and is
of the opinion that Davidson |
stands up well in comparison to,
these schouls. “No college that
I saw." said Puckett, “had a
finer or better kept physical
plant.” These colleges do. how-
ever, have endowments two or
three times that of Davidson.
They consequently have a bet-
ter scholarship program and a
lighter teaching load. Dr. Puck-
ett stated that Davidson was
“well known and highly regard-
ed”: among the Yankee colleges.

Dr. Puckett plans to go north
again in November to Buck

Tee

Cheerless leader

Not a “rah rah” left in himt He's just
discovered there’s no more Coke. And
a cheer leader without Coke is as sad
as a soap opera. To put the sparkle
back in his eye—somebody!—

bring him a sparkling cold Coca-Cola!

will take part in a ‘conference

et

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by

THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trade-mark, ©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

— Mooresville

TO KNOW MORE A80UT
YOURSELF —- ANSIVER
THESE QUESTIONS! *

We,

ves C] wof | fg pea When you are criticized do you ves [| no[ |
“_W stop to analyze the criticism
Tr : Aen
“Py _ before retorting?
/ a) f °
é
ves [J NO [ Do you sometimes go to a public ves CO nol]
event, such as a football game,
even if you have to go alone?
a

Tn a discussion, do you like to go
on record early with a definite
viewpoint of your own?

,

Is + dees
¢
3/

ves[ | no[ |

ves[_ | nol |

ves CJ nol | Are you able to stay cheerful
even when you are alone for a

considerable time?

ves[] s0[_]

and women who think for

thinking man’s filter and a

Famillar
pack or
crush-
proof
box.

you do think for yourself!

a Xs
ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN’S
m= FILTER...A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!
