FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1958

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

BY
GEORGE RAMSEY

I'D LIKE TO SEE:

The upper three tennis courts lighted by a pay-as-
you-play meter system.

The man who makes up the pairings for the South-
ern Conference basketball tournament.

A wrestling match between coach Parker and
Westy Westervelt.
A dance weekend that has the blessing of the
weather gods.

A basketball game between the I-F champions and
an all-star squad chosen from the other teams.

More Like Dole—
More college football coaches with the attitude of
Davidson’s Bill Dole.

The college diploma of Davidson's favorite snowman,
“Wyatt Earp.”

Johnston

Parker

By RAY THOMAS
Davidsonian Sports Writer
“If our pitchers come through,
we'll have a good season,” re-
marked coach Tom _ Stevens,
commenting on the 1958 Wild-
cat baseball squad.

Stevens expects southpaws Al-
len Moore and Dave Page, along
with righthanders Dee Green
and Dee Lide to share most of
the mound duties. He also looks
for two freshman prospects,
Freddy Pharr and Drew White,
to help out.

VETERAN INFIELD

With the exception of second
base, the infield will feature a
veteran line-up. George Hart,
second team all-conference first
baseman last year, will be at the
initial sack. Russ Cotton, whom
Stevens rates a good freshman
prospect, will be the lone new-
comer in the infield, holding
down second base.

John Patterson, moving from

second, will man third base,
backed up by Dabney. Stuart
Don Killian will handle the

lace.—(Photo by Stevens.)

In ROTC Tournam

shortstop ‘chores.

The outfield, another prob-|
lem for Stevens, will probably
be, composed of team captain
Shelbourne Wallace, Riehmond
Rucker, and freshman Bill Joy-

en to be good hitters.
REAGAN RETURNS

Harold Reagan, who lettered
as a freshman catcher two sea-
sons ago, will return to. do the
receiving.

Except for
riod in the early portion of the
schedule, coach Stevens
pleased with the slate. Opening
encounter for the Wildeats will
be a road game with Lenoir
Rhyne, on March 18. The first
home contest will be played
three days later, a return en-
counter with the Bears
Hickory.

Another undefeated track season for coach Whittle’s|

gang.
Someone with extra tickets to the NCAA Regional
Playoffs in Charlotte next week.

More Like KA-Kappa Sig—

More Interfraternity games the calibre of the KA-
Kappa Sig basketball clash Monday night.

More Wildcat basketball players with shooting eyes
like Bill Shinn.

An Interfraternity Athletic Council, under active
student leadership, as proposed here earlier, instituted
to replace the Sports Managers.

An uninterrupted movie at the Union.

Davidson’s tennis team back on top of the
Southern Conference.

Other professors take as many trips as Dr. Frontis
Johnston.
A winning Davidson baseball team.

READY FOR SPRING!.....

WE NOW HAVE A FINE SELECTION OF

Dacron-Wool Suits and Slacks
Dacron-Cotton Suits and Slacks
Short Sleeve Sport Shirts
Short Sleeve Dress Shirts
Bermuda Shorts (All Fabrics)

Belts (Madras, Challis, Burlap and Hemp)

Water Shorts (All Fabrics)

WILSON-WRIGHT’S, Inc.

|

SOCCER MEETING |

There will be a meeting
on Monday, March 17, of
all soccer players, in prepa-
ration for spring practice,
which will begin on that
date and extend through
March 28, according to Gor-
don Neville, captain of the
1958 booters.

The meeting will be held
in the classroom on the bal-
cony of the gym at 3:30 p.m.
The two-week drill will be
supervised by coaches J. W. .
McCutchan and P. A. Mar-
rotte.

Team For ‘58 Slate

By PRENTICE BROWN
With the coming of Spring
jand after a month of intermit-
jtent practice, the 1958 version

Jof the Davidson track team is
‘beginning to take form.

Coach Heath Whittle, admit-

|ting that this. year’s charges
}will be somewhat weaker than

the undefeated 1957 team, still
has optimism for his apparent-
ly “rookie” squad.

Those who will

be sorely

} missed from last year's team

include: Pete Ashcraft, champ-
ion half-mile and miler; Mel
Armstrong in the dashes; Al El
der in the 440, high jump and
broad jump; and Bill Gramley
in the shot put and discus.

Most of the burden therefore
rests among the
following top
returnees: An-
gus McBryde
and Ray Antley —
in the two mile
run; Jim Alex:
ander and Hen-
ry Brown in the
mile run; ‘
Brownie Thur- Wee
man in the 440 yard dash;
“Diggs” Gramley in the shot
and discus; John Huie in the
pole vault.

The sprints will be handled
by Marvin Bentley, Ed Kizer
and John Heath West. The hur-
dies department will feature
Chris Bremer, Jim Hambright,
Don MeNeil and Bill Cannon.

Some of the most promising
newcomers are Roger Beebe in
the half mile run, Frank Cenegy
in the discus, and Neal Pharr
in the pole vault.

The cindermen will open at
The Citadel on March 22, fol-
lowed by a meet at Richmond
March 28. The first local meet
will be with Wake Forest April
1. During the remainder of the

“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”

season the ’Cats will meet Clem-
son. N. C. State, Furman and

ner. Coach Stevens said that he |
may move Green and Page to!
the outfield, as they have prov-|

a rather full pe-|

was!

from |

DAVIDSON ROTC RIFLERS shown above earned runner-
up honors in the North Carolina ROTC Invitational Tourna-
ment, held at Wake Forest. Team members are (I. to r.): Don
Harper, Joe Wearn, Jerry Gattis, Stan Gaines, and Dick Wil-
son. Holding the second place plaque is M Sgt W. C. Wal-

Riflers Take Second

Closing out a “generally pleasing” spring practice,
| the Davidson football team concluded drills today, with |
jall indications pointing to an improved 1958 eleven.
| Craig Wall, rising senior half-
| back, was chosen captain for!
the Wildeat team earlier this
week, with tackle Charlie James
!named alternate captain. Coach
Bill Dole said, “I am very
| pleased with the choice of Wall
and James.”

and George Hart moved from |
halfback to fullback. These |
changes have resulted in the de-
sired strengthening of the unit.)
MORE OPEN ATTACK
Offensively, Dole stated,
Davidson attack has

the
been)

In commending Wall's changed to some extent, Wildcat
choice as captain, coach grid fans can .look for a more
Dole said, “He is an ex- open attack next year, and the
ceptionally fine young man, probability of a two-unit of
and should provide the fense CRAIG WALL

team with excellent leader- Dole named a number of

ent

viding plenty of heip to the "Cat

ship. He is the fastest, best freshmen who. have lent jing

Compiling a total score of 3571 out of a ponies pag big man that | have lustre to the scene. He Pleased with the amount of
| ad the opportunity to named Jennings Snider and hustle and: spirit. shown, the
/ 4000, the Davidson ROTC rifle team captured runner-up!  cosch, Having been switched Gainy: Ween: as twee the | cia mentor summed ue. the
honors in the North Carolina Invitational ROTC Tourna-| from end to the backfield, outstanding end prospects. j o59 prospe oi ci cae of
ment at Wake Forest after last Saturday's firing. he should make us a tre- Russ Cotton has played well overything speed, size, and ex-

Dick Wilson was top firer for} mendous halfback.” at halfback, and quarter- perience.

the Wildcats, firing a 731 score Naval Unit finished third, and| Dole noted that the spring) back Butch Rogers, who did =» —__— —
for the two-phase tourney. Joe| the N.C. State AFROTC team practice has witnessed a lot of not play last season, has
Wearn and Stan Gaines posted fourth in the field of eight par ¢Xperimen..ing on the part of, looked very good this Tankers Take Ath
| 717 scores for second place, and|ticipating squads |’Cat coaches and team. In addi spring, and is slated for

\Don Harper and Jerry Gattis) Capt. John W. Mitchell, Da- | tton to Wall's transfer from end) plenty of action in the fall. In Conferenc Meet
| rounded out the local list, each| vidson coach attributed the good to halfback, fullback Dave War Up front, Scott Lacey and €

| with tallies of 703. |showing on the part of the lo den moved to center, center guard Jim Smith were cited. as

| Wilson brought home three! cals to the fact that everybody Harold Bynum shifted to. guard, having given indication of pro- By BILL HELLIER

| individual medals, including top) did well,

with no one member

Concluding a rather mediocre

season, Davidson's swimming

iman on his team, third high|far ahead of the others, and

| scorer in the standing position,) no one behind the others, the ee team traveled to the Southern

and ‘selection on the all-State! first match this year in which ° . j Ss ra ia Conferenee meet at Virginia

ROTC rifle team. Gattis also} all firers have been so steady r fech in Blacksburg last week-

earned a medal, by virtue of | Capt. Mitchell also commend. | end

firing a perfect 200 score in| ed M-Set. W. CC. Wallace for} Although they had not beaten

the prone position, the only fir, a “job well done” .in assisting | lal W oop ead a conference team during the

er in the tourney to accomplish)! with the coaching of the te zi regular season, and were 6x-

this feat. this vear pected to finish in ‘ast place,
. the tankmen turned im an ex-

Tomorrow morning t
son team plays host
son,

Winner of the meet for the
second year in. succession was
the Wake Forest unit, which hit
| 3627 of a possible 4000. The
| University of North Carolina

Wrestlers Carry 5-3
Mark to League Meet ;:

Holding a 5 and 3 season record Davidson's grap-
plers journey to VMI today for the Southern ¢ onference | them a first place with ten wins with Russ Ferrell leading the

in. the final match before
the Southern Conference tourna
ment, set for March. 15,

he David

: By HENRY RAMSEY
to Clem

With the inter-fraternity basketball tournament
quickly drawing to a close, the Kappa Sigs have worked
their way into first place with the K.A.s and Sigma Chis
tied for second,

jcellent performance and took a
fourth place, tie with Washing
ton and Lee
Sophomore Tom Smith
was the big surprise for the
Wildcats as he raced to a

at V.M.I

On Monday evening, the Kap-; give. the Sigma Nus tenth place
pa Sigs pulled ahead after a} while the S.P.E.s hold eleventh sscund: pines in the bane yerd
close first half and held a sub- place with no wins. and nine backstroke and a third in
stantial lead over a determined losses the 200 yd. Hesheleae:
squad until the final gun.| 9, Wednesday night the/< ms previo oe —
[Their SO0e visiory. Over te) aro. ind tip Ik Lewlis| ceeotan sues tee tamu tee an
gentlemen of the South” gives cessful year by taking ——
downed the S.P.E.s 45 to 36, onds and a third, respectively,

in his distance specialties, the

and no losses. Tied for second

wrestling meet. scoring for the losers 500, 220. and 440 vard events.
The an dropped the;lings'’ Danko in 2:44. Richie | ¥ith eight’ wins and — loss) Ben Harris led the Phi Delts ’ singe i og os
Generals of Washington and King, 167-pound Wildeat, lost| * ewe. See the ong ron ese to a 40 to 17 victory over the! putterfiv. John. Seott toot. a
Lee 18-14 at Lexington, Feb-|0-5 to Hollister, and Capt: ain| 5'8 ee Come oe: Se rare _ Pikas, despite the efforts of fourth place in the 200 yd.
ruary 26 to round out another Dave Fagg decisioned Holland | 1°" ~ nageshone por ~ S!VeS' Ralph Triplette, who was the breaststroke while Art Milles
season of mat competition 5-2 for 177-pound honors. ‘Freah- | the ge . urd’ Place siot IN| high-scorer for the defeated finished fourth in the butterfly
| Coach Parker stated that | man Jim Allen pinned W&L's| 7: team. event.
| this has been Davidson’s = Calvert im the heavyweight duel | A record of six wins. and! ‘The Phi Gams fell to the! First place in the 100 yd,
} best wrestling season in 22 = in 3:56 to complete the tallies.|three losses puts the Betas) KA 5 by a score of 39 to 34 backstroke, though hotly con-
years and that he was very . in fourth place, while the) with KA Fred Streetman emerg-/ tested as a dead heat between
pleased with his team. Defending 157-pound com | Pikas and A.T.O.s are tied for ing as high scorer in the game. | Smith and Stur of the. Citadel,

ference champion “
Westervelt, holding
secutive wins is fav

In the 122-pound event David-|
son’s Carroll Pitts pinned the!
General's Harding in 5:59. Har-|

7-3 by Pittard, weighing 137.
147-pounder Tony Brennan}
pinned Butch Neale of David-
son in 4:18, but Harold Wester-
| velt at 157 dropped the home:

VPI will probably
toughest match.

If you answered “No” to all questions, you obvi-
ously smoke Camels —a real cigarette. Only 6 or
7 “No” answers mean you better get on to Camels
fast. Fewer than 6 “No’s” and it really doesn’t
matter what you smoke. Anything’s good enough!

Washington and Lee.

win his class again this year

pound competition last year
has a good chance of taking

that division. Burris

Have a real cigarette- have a

‘Westy”
22 con-
ored to

ififth place with five wins and
four losses. In sixth place, the
Phi Gams have won five and
lost five while the $

was awarded to Stur by .05 of a
second, Smith's time of 1:06.85
an amazing three second

Don Killian managed to lead!
the Sigma Chis toa slim 36 to

34 victory over the S.A.E.s, al-\ was

rison May lost 0-7 to Patton of} a ta 7 a1 : AES are though Dave Bradford. played a/improvemeht over his previous
WOE in the 1g0;pound (iit wisile| laced third i 77 jin seventh place with a three-| very good game for the under-| best time during the vear
Waller Taylor was outpointed| p ag record. dogs -

ay |
Che Independents have moved It looks as if there will be a; and Wednesday may change

to eighth place with a 1-7 rec-| pretty tight race. for over-all) some standings as. may the soft-

of ord, the Pikas are right behind! first. place in the remaining! ball, volleyball, and pingpong

be his them with one win and eight|events in the sports program.| tournaments which are not far
losses. A win and nine losses The track meet Monday! away

next

‘Test your

{
\

Give your psyche a workout |
—Adler a little !

j
a

Yes NO
coco
mc | oe
—Oo

——oo

“The best tobacco gives

1. Do you think all coeds should be required to wear the
new ‘‘sack’’ style dresses? (For men only!)

2. Do you think of a “square” only as a tern in Geometry?
3. Do you go to see foreign films just for the plot?
4. Do you think the school week is too short?

5. Do you question this statement:
you the best smoke''?

Ol el
oo)
Cs Ce
Jt

6. Do you sit as far away as possible from the prettiest gal in
class in order to concentrate better on your studies?

7. Do you think the study of Home Economics is all a girl
needs for a happy married life?

8. Do you think your professors are too lenient in grading
exam papers?

But if you want to enjoy smoking as never before,
switch to Camels. Nothing else tastes so rich,
smokes so mild. Today more people smoke Camels
than any other cigarette. The best tobacco gives
you the best smoke. Try Camels and you'll agree!

