\ v | )~-A PRICED

Davidson College, Davidson, Ne Ce. June li; 1959 Vole L

WELCOME

Welcome to Davidson Summer Session and
to the beautiful and peaceful setting of
our modest Williamsburg campuse
enjoy the fruitful summer months before
you, make yourself at home in your quaint
old classrooms, your aromatic labs, and
your little lonely dormitory lodgings.

Now if the editors may be allowed to
spéak & few words of advice, gleaned from
long and arduous sessions of study over
the years, let us caution you - do not
overstudy. Don't spend all your walking
minutes pouring over the books, don't go
back for too many after hours classes,
tear yourselves away from the feverish
tete-a-tetes, the long and heated dis-
cussions with your professors; play
a little, students, it's good for you.

You can find the greatest opportunity

for recreation right here at your good old

College Unione ‘es, come to us for a
little fun and relaxation,. read our
comics, enjoy the thrill of the sports
world, take this opportunity to cul-
tivate agility and coordination in games
of pool and ping pong, become proficient
in Monopol’, Scrabble, and Clueeeesip
the cool, refreshing wines of our snack
bare

We urge you to take a few minutes
every day or two and come to the Union.
Ue think vou'll enjoy yourself «= and
those you meet hereeece

UOMING MOVILS:
Friday, Sat., June 19 and 20, 'Al17
My Sons" with Edward G. Robinson,
Burt Lancaster

Friday, Sat., June 26 and 27, "Odd Man
Out" with James Mason, Robert Newton

8:00 P.}i. College Union

Relax and

|

The Union Presents
WEDNSDAY NIGHT BREAK
Tonight at nine ofclock --hot dogs,
cokes, music, girls----

COLLEGE UNTOi!] TERRACE AT 9:00

HR 1 te se eh fe de H te te wR
—

CHEERIO, CHRIS

Have you ever stopped to think who is
responsible for the food you consume three
times a day--two times a day, you sacke
hounds! Well, part of the ‘praise, or ©
the blame, goes to a smiling nglishmen
whose ready ear and pleasant manner helps
to keep things running in the inner recesses
of the cafeteria.

Mr. Christopher Hayselden has had long
and varied training for his present posi-
tion as assistant manager of the college
cafeterias He grew up in Yorkshire, Eng.,
where he learned to bake biscuits (cookies
to us) and to cook one of England's
national dishes, fish 'n chips. In 1937
while still a teenager he joined His
Majesty's Royal Air Force to sée the world.
This tour made him an expert on various
things including the back alleys of
Baghdad and Bombay.

What concerns us more is the broadening
of his culinary art by the addition of such
exotic dishes as buffalo 4 la Bombay,
Casablanca corn pone, and Delhi delight
(creamed silk worms on toastJ) His experi-
ences in Northern Ireland and Canada have
added ever greater variety to his cooking
repertoire.

We want to express otir sincere appre-
ciation to Mr. Hayselden for his friendli-
ness. We feel that his departure next
week will be a loss to all of us, for we
will miss the British spice in our Greek
puddinge
