Che Dauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials oy the Editor)

The Vocal Majority-
And Actual Campus Opinion

The YMCA forum at which Mr.
Thomas R. Waring, Editor of the
Charleston News and Courier, de-
fended separation of the races con-
firmed what we have long suspected:
thatthe vocal majority is by no means
indicative of the actual majority of
student body sentiment.

We also suspect that if an actual
vote were taken the student body
would reject the integration of the
College, but this is mere speculation.
However, we can say definitely that
the vote would not reflect what stu-
dent participation seemed to indicate:
that the student body is almost
unanimously in favor of integration.

The question. immediately arises:
why is oné faction so vocal. the. other
so silent? There ‘are several reasons
as we See it.

Historically those who favor the
status quo are less verbose and pub-
licly adamant for their system. Those
opposed to racial mixing would be
Satisfied with less discussion of the
problem and a continuation of the
present situation. This is one reason
for the impression that Mr. Waring
took back to Charleston with him.

Certainly there are those with sin-

cere convictions on both sides of this
question. There are, however, those
who we feel resort. to waving the ban-
ner for a minority in order to gain
personal recognition. This is not to
say that all those who favor a break-
ing down of color bars on all levels
do so merely to further their own
ends. but there are some; and we do
not limit this entirely to students.
This. we felt, was responsible for
some of the vocal warfare waged on
Mr. Waring.

Also. we have talked to those in
favor of the present situation who
felt it was to their advantage to re-
main silent. Some felt that it was best
to let the student from Johnson C.
Smith have the offensive. In doing so
he was, to some who are undecided
on their sentiments, displeasingly ag-
gressive and did his cause more harm
than good. It would be difficult, at
least, to try to evaluate the effect of
his appearance.

Again we say the vocal majority
demonstrated in the Y Forum is not
indicative of the prevalent campus
opinion. To think so is to be misled in
attempting to arrive at an answer to
the problem.

Drinking! Ah, Cursed Reality . . .

Tuesday afternoon's meeting (see
page one) confronted the faculty with
a problem which, looking at both the
practical aspect and college principle.
seems to. be an insoluble—one. The
faculty is over the proverbial. barrel:
how shall it reconcile principle and
practice?

Under the circumstances, it did
the most. feasible thing in reaffirm-
ing ifs stand, explicit as such in Sec-
tion Four of the Student. Conduct
regulations. It doés not. however, ans-
wer ihe problem. The only light on
the horizon is the proposal ‘submitted
by Stitdent Body President Green in
conjunction with fraternity presi-
dents and campus leaders.

The pledge substitution proposed

‘ by Green crosses’ a very fine line in
‘comparison ‘with the- present pledge.
The students’ proposal implies great-

er confidence on the part of the col-

lege, tor no “reminder’ is contained

in it. At the same time the admini-

stration and faculty is relieved of the

tedious position of admitting that

there may be conduct not in accord

with the college drinking policy.
There is really no basic change.

We think the most significant part
of the proposal jis the substitution of
individual fraternity responsibility
for collective responsibility. Who can
deal better with complaints and who
should be punished more than the of-
fending group? Again the question of
student responsibility comes up. This
request, also, should not be denied.

We are glad to see students make
a concrete proposal. To all those cam-
pus leaders taking part and especial-
ly to President Green should go the
student’s tribute. Student opinion can
be used to great advantage, and we
are happy to see this step.

The faculty has referred the pro-
posal to committee for study. We'll
be interested to see its fate. Who
knows? A workable solution may be
in sight.

R.C.S.

Christmas Comes But Once A Year

Monday night the children from
Barium. Springs arrive to give us our
annual injection of Christmas spirit.

We guess it’s a good way to start
the season you know, with the kids
and all. It sort of takes us away from
the self-centeredness that dominates
most of: our lives and, at least for a
few brief hours, we think of some
others beside ourselves.

Most of us, perhaps by necessity
since we are in an educational insti-
tution, are so wrapped up in our own
activities that ‘we don’t have much
time to give to such things.

Oh, there are a tew exceptions-
like the group that makes a weekly
trip to Gastonia to entertain the chil-
dren in the cripple children’s hospit-
al. But on a whole we don’t do many
things like that.

We guess the Barium Springs par-
ty is a good thing, not only because
it gives the kids a good time, but
also because it eases our consciences
for the other things we have neglect-
ed all semester long.

It’s kind of a pity, though, that the

visit only comes once a year.
But that’s the way most of us do
things.
Merry Christmas.
J.H.

Attention WF:

The Westminster Fellowship is
considering a proposal which can con-
tribute materially to its future sut-
cess. It has been suggested that they
hold programs which are of interest
to the entire campus community in a
more central location than the Col-
lege Church.

The Union Ballroom has proved
to be ideal for this sort of meeting.
It helps to attract a larger student
participation, to have a meeting in
a convenient location, and student
participation is the aim of open meet-
ings.

The Westminster group should de-
cide to hold next week’s meeting in
the Union. The meeting deserves a
wide airing, one which will be ob-
tained only in such a central location.

re

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ASSISTANT EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER

Associate Editor Jim Hamilton
Editorial Assistant —. Bob Livingston
Managing Editors __. Ervin Duggan

Bob Moore
Sports Editor B. Millner
News Editor - Tem Colvin
Feature Editer Charles Rose

Ed Armfield
Dick Smith
Dave Gillis

Assignments Bditor — David Jordan

Copy Editor Dan Clemmer
Cartoonists Redding
Starling

Advertising Manager — Charlie Rewe
Circulation Mgr. Albert McClure,Jr.
Ase’t. Business Manager Greg Grana

as Second Class Matter at the Pest Office at Davidson, Nerth Carolina,
Motered , under Act of Maroh 3, 1879.

[ae

_ present circumstances he favors

have a cut system which pro-

Tne HAWK'S NEST

Christmas Is Our Most
Warmly Human Festival

By JACK TAYLOR

Say ‘'Thanksgiving” or “Fourth of July” or “Easter”
and nothing especial happens,, but say “Christmas” and
the heart “glows, for Christmas is more than just a holi-
day, a break in routine that is routine itself. Christmas
is alive, as human as humanity, as warmly parodoxical
as life, composed of all the subtle nuances and strong
contrasts that make up human nature.

‘Christmas is the joy of a small lad buckling his
new Roy Rogers double holsters on over his Buck
Rogers space suit; and the sadness of a small boy
shivering from the cold that eats through thin walls
and torn sheets, crying himself to sleep because a
Santa can’t afford the warm jacket he asked for.

Christmas is as loud as the crowds of late shoppers
scrambling among the gaudy tinsel and multi-colored
glares in search of a gift for an almost-forgotten cousin;
as quiet as a prayer,

It is as ludicrous as one thousand chipmunks sing-
ing the Hallelujah Chorus, as meaningfui as Midnight
Services. It has the warmth of a blazing fire, the
frivolity of eggnog, the coldness of a “robber baron”
computing mark-up profit, the seriousness of Christ-
mas Seals.

Christmas is a child tearing the wrapping from the
end of his present in an effort to discover what's inside;
it is a.ragged Santa Claus standing beside a bucket of
dimes, nickels and quarters which is covered with
chicken wire to discourage petty thievery; it is the town
drunk dropping a dime in the bucket.

Christmas is riding around the better side of town
to see the home decorations; it is carrying food and
clothes to the shack on the other side of the railroad
ditch.

Christmas is merriment and meditation, poverty and

wealth, joy and sadness, selfish and unselfish. It is Christ
and Santa Claus. It is human.

STERLING COMMENTS:

On “The Lynchingy”
Of State's Rights” §

By PETER STERLING

We .all know the facts: A Ne-
gro allegedly fapes a white -wo-
jan, is. jailed, is dragged from
his cell, and murdered. The

by Redding

The Big Squeeze...

LETTERSTOTHEEDITOR:  ——

Students Discuss Cuts,
Gift Fund, Money Woes

F ment has wider application branch of the same bush-lea-
pes than the one example given gue Wachovia system doesn’t
. here. make the same charge.
Dear Editor: Many words have been toss) it scems that it must be a
! have a question for Dr. eq pack and forth lately on matter of competition. There
Abernethy:
He has stated that under

the cut question; I agree hearti- they have it; here they don’t.
ly with the Editors that “Only Furthermore, why do some
a trial of the system will give stores and the “student” store
a cut system which would sub- ‘tthe college this answer.” charge 10c, since the bank does
stitute “loss of hour credit for Hansford Epes not-charge them the same when
loss of quality credits.” Earlier they deposit the checks?

in his article, he noted that “we tT ho Pledmont doesn’t
charge you when you deposit
your dad’s check on your ac-
count. It doesn’t charge the
student store either. Why
then should if charge us? It

Richardson

Dear ‘Editor:

Every Christmas Davidson
students try to compensate for
a year of selfcenterednes¢ and .oms to be ‘just a 2% cash-

apathy ad rin taining the _ing charge. . _, FBI enters the case and Mis- history.

nigbt. and ‘reluctantly contri- Instead of charging the list sicsippi. to ascertain if any {cd- _ Every public official in the

buting to the Gift Fund Pro. price of books, couldn’t the eval Jaws have been broken. South (and elsewhere) mouths

gram which they vote to sup- ‘student book store give the after an. investigation, and a that. euphonic platitude, “State’s

port. ; , P. students a deal and eut out a 378 page report, {he G-Men re- Rights’. (in Washington, the
Si Colonel Adarhs’ lot ‘of their 40% (or there- iyeat because of an insufficient burcaucrats call it “decentrali-
ince Colonel Adams’ well abouts) profit on books: This federal issue. zation.") The philosophy of

received speech in chapel, would be a simple service for . P pay

vides. for the students who are
ahead ‘on quality points most of
the advantages of an unlimited
cut’system,” which .I believe I
have demonstrated is ‘not com-
pletely true.

The implication of his ar-
ticle is that he is attacking -
the extension of these privil-
eges to students who are be-
hind on quality. points, im-
plying — though not -stating
— that he may approve at

fhe grand jury, “keep your
mouths shut.” Tho result: one
of the mast flagrant breaches
of justice in :modern fegal

least partially of .the present
system which does allow some
measure of precarious free-
dom to superior students.

litfle interest has been shown
by the students. YMCA pub-
licity for the drive has been
handled poorly. The chart to

which I honestly feel’ students
are entitled. -

Students of. the world, you
are being took!

The Mississippi courts take
over and refuse aven to read
the FBI report, dismissing
the entire case with the state

state's rights is two fold: First,
the Rightists contend that the
tederal government. originally
received its power from the
states, thus making the latter

show contributions was not judge’s “inspired chesge” to

posted. this week. Posters

Yet his proposal with respect Bobby Livingston
to loss of hour credits would
almost completely deny even were few or non-existent.
this degree of freedom to bet- Although the collection of
ter students. Oddly enough, Thailand artifacts in the Union
Honors students would be espe- Display case was interesting, it
cially denied cut privileges, is hard to connect it to the
since in this program the maxi- YMCA’s- plea for contributions
mum class load allowed is fif- to the Bangkok Hospital. The
teen hours (including the six pamphlet distributed through
Honors hours). the dormitories was a specimen
This meads that the av- for handwriting analysis, in-
erage Honors student would, stead of valuable publicity.

ptimary. We fought some war
to solve that one.

Second, thoy say that the
people can protect their .in-
dividual liberties better ff
the government is closer to
home, Ask. Mack Parker about’
that one, or better still, ask
some member of a Chinese
Commune, where there is
some alleged “close govern-
ment,” about it.

What state's rights must real-

Hospital Head Writes
Gratitude For ’59 Fund

Editor’s Note: Printed below are excerpts from a let-
ter recently received by Col. William L. Adams from
Mr. Marshall P. Welles, Director of the Bangkok Chris-
tian Hospital. It was in response to Col. Adams’ letter

by graduation, probably have
only six hours of credit which
he could afford to lose. Per-
haps {| have misinterpreted
his statement, but. | cannot
reconcile these two points.
| would appreciate—for my

The Christmas Seal Drive,
the Salvation Army, and Hat-
tie’s Open House are unde-
niably worthy causes, but the
Gift Fund program has not
had any overwhelming accept-
ance this year.

announcing that the Hospital had been chosen for the
Davidson YMCA Christmas Gift Fund..

Dear Col. Adams,

I received your most wonderful and welcome ca-
ble two days ago . . . as soon as I got it, I began to go
to work to try and get some Promotional Material, and

ly mean is state responsibility.
The growth of the national gov-
ernment in the last thirty years
has resulted mainly because
there are problems too com-
plex for individual state ac-
tion. It would appear that Mis-

Perhaps if publicity would ane
center around depicting the 1 am now sending it the soonest as I can.

as | do—a clarification of his long corridors of the hospital Yesterday, we had a meeting of the Board of
stand. filled with suffering humanity Directors of the hospital to plan for a Birthday Cele-
Another point with which 1 We Would sense more deeply bration for the tenth anniversary since the hospital
would take issue is Dr. Aber- vile. chance to help other peo” V4. founded and dedicated. | was very happy at that
netty " jtatement that a me. Equipment valued at three time to tell them of your telegram and what it means.
for the superior student find. thousand dollars has already They are all very grateful to you, and to the Student
ing the work required in a been ordered. If we don’t get Body at Davidson.
course too elementary would be DUSY, somebody in Thailand is I can’t help recalling what you wrote me many
months ago, which. was as follows: “I have been some-

edification, and that of any-

one else who may have felt Sissippt_ wants the rights, bit

not the responsibility.

There is a point when even
the most conservative South-
erner must recognize that
color cannot determine jus-
tice. 1% is going to be very
difficult to explain to the
rest of the country, and more
important, to the rest of the
world, why the federal gov-

“br oing to get stuck wi
to “bring pressure on the Ad- going & uc with a ernment should not control

C.0.D. Bill.

ere ane Faculty to Leonard Richardson What disappointed in what my assorted church groups such matters. why should we
ar i} . 2 send a president half way
But what of tfe/roblem of have done on my little project. They love to hear about around the world to extol the

Thep, talk about Thep and even pray for Thep, but
somehow they never get around to personally doing any-
thing for Thep.” Evidently you were able to pierce the
Ever since I-came here, two “blank wall I have met on trying to interest people in
financial situations have irrita. the wonderful work done in Thailand, "as you wrote on
ted me extremely. The first is another occasion. I can still hardly believe it is all true.
this 10c service charge which It is so thrilling.
everyone, but particularly the Again, may | express my own personal thanks for
student store, demands for : . .
cashing an out-of-town check this evidence of warmness in your heart for the peo-
The other is the student. store's Ple of Thailand, and for their personal welfare, and 0.65 such as his may bring the
outrageous price on textbooks. especially for Thep. You have certainly gone the “ex- wrath of Washington down up-
tra mile.” May the Lord richly bless you. on the “several jsovereign

The story thot the dinky
Piedmont Bank, being a non- If there is anything else I can do, please don’t hesi- states”. The South, as well as
par bank, must pay the Re tate to write. other areas, must prove its ca-
serve Bank for processing our pability of using the responsi-
checks isn’t valid when one bility if the rights are to be
maintained.

realizes that the Mooresville

American “way of tife’ when
we, cannot even sell it to
state public officials?

Every state should continue
to fight for every right which
it can responsibly control. Yet,
the federal government must
step in when the states fail to
allow basic human activities.
Mack Parker may produce a
Federal Lynch Law; a few more

a superior stydént in some
fairly basic“ course which
must necessgirly bo geared
to the average student, and
yet because of great diversity
‘of ability and interest within
the class, o superior student
with some motivation could

—given some degree of free-
dom — proceed at a much
more rapid rate, and thus
benefit more from. the
course?

An example which comes
readily to mind is that of a
Student with good foreign
language background and apti-
tude who is taking a foreign
language course, probably in
his second or third language.

Does our present cut sys-
tem encourage him to pro
ceed at his own speed, or
does it tend strongly to en-
courage him to study little,
proceed at the cless’s rate,
and spend eae year learning
something which he could
quite possibly master in half
thet time?

Needless to say, this argu-

Livingston

Dear Editor:

Most sincerely yours,
- Marshall P. Welles, M.D.

PEANUIS

I HEARD WHAT YoU WERE
SAVING IN THAT LETTER!
A FINE BROTHER YOU
TURNED OUT To BE!

IF-HE THINKS YOU'VE
BEEN BAD ALL YEAR, WHY
SHOULO I SUFFER?

LOOK, T WAS ONLY TRYING To
TELL SANTA CLAUS THAT I DIDN'T
THINK HE SHOULD PASS ye ge
HOUSE, AND NOT LEAVE ME ANY.
PRESENTS JUST BECAUSE OF You! |

DON'T LOOK AT ME...
ONLY THE SECRETARY!

.

