a

x

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1959

——

Bavidsonia

The sport scene was bare early this week as Da-|
vidson athletes shook out two week old exam cramps and,

prepared for the home stretch of the winter season.

However, the ever afluent coaching staff offered
plenty of printable material.

Coach Jim Wathall was relating some of his former
high school coaching experiences.

"Yes, sir,” he said in his West Virginia accent,
“that Buster Smith was quite a boy. He used to say
‘Give me the ball enough, Coach, and 1’! make the Hall
of Flame.’

“We were circling a big lake one day when one

» ™

THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘

PAGE THREZ

“V.P.1. Invades Wildcat

ze:

~~

°

“WESTY” WESTERVELT (top) and Jim Allen spar on the mat in preparation for Fri-
day’s match with Emory. Westervelt will probably wrestle at 167 pounds, Allen at 177.

(Photo By Rhyne)

Wrestlers Contest Emory;
Wake Forest Looms Next

By PETE WYRICK

‘Gymnasium This Evening

|

The Wildcat basketball team face an important conference foe tonight as they

play host to V.P.I. The home team is seeking its second

conference win against five

defeats. In overall competition, the Wildcats have won six and have lost eleven.

Swimmers Take |
Trip To Georgia

By FREO LANE
The Davidson College swimming team, under the
direction of Coach George Tucker, left Wednesday on a
tour of Georgia.

i

x

a competition.
Thursday the Cats visited' , P

Athens to meet the Georgia! With the exception of cap-
Bulldogs, who won last year's! tain Bob Wynne, all of the boys’
contest '56-30; today the tank- are returning next year; and
men move into ‘Attunta hoping with a fine freshman team com-

sma ~~ ting up to help next year, Da-
tory rer nt y and ea ir. vidson can look forward to
y werasnaanee , ,some very good swimming
ny ued swim against Georgia teams in the immediate future.

Throughout the season, V.P.E.
has been one of the highest
scoring teams in the nation,
once going as high as 104 points
(against Washington & Lee),
Consequently, a large factor in
the determination of tonight's
decision will probably be the
effectiveness of the Wildcat’s
defensive play.

In their first encounter of
the season, V.P.I. defeated Da-
vidson 91 to 70, but the Wild-
oats should prove harder to
handle on the home court.

PFEIFFER GAME

On Wednesday night the
Wildcats traveled to Miscnhei-
mer to meet Pfeiffer in a re-
turn contest. Earlier in the sea-
son, Davidson defeated Pfeif-
fer and one tonight would

of the fellows said, ‘Look at that reservoir!’ By “B" MILLNER Coach Tucker considers all els ales give the Wildcats a chance to
. . of these teams beiter than IMAC 5 D break even for the season, de-

‘ : ’ The Wildcat grapplers met feated in the 147 pound di- 130 pounder Dave Irvin, in . .
‘*You can’t fool me,’ said Buster. ‘I don’t see no Emory University’s wrestlers vision. his first year of collegiate | 2versee. but he thinks his | pending apon the results of the

Indians.’ He was always afraid that the guys would go
off and leave him strangled! ”

Coach Tucker as usual was loquacious, expounding
on the virtues of his swimmers.

“If we swim our best times, we'll win this week-
end—,” he vowed. “Hudgins could be undefeated now,
but I had him hold off in two 440’s so he'd be ready for
the relay. That’s why he lost the two races he did.”

Bespectacled baseball coach Tom Stevens was la-
menting the loss of little Richmond Rucker who was off
to spend a semester in Geneva, Switzerland.

“For a little man he surely can throw the ball

this afternoon at Charleston, S.  gouthern Conference Champ-
C. The 'Cats, fresh from a 16- ion “westy” Westervelt is un-
14 win over the Citadel before goreated in 31 matches but was
exams, will face Wake Forest tied in the State contest. West-
‘at Winston-Salem next Friday. orvyeit's next big test will come

Coach Chartie Parker’s in two weeks when he will have

i ference
charges salvaged the only Da- (0 tangle with a con
Videon win he a three-sport title-holder in either the 157

‘ encounter with the Citadel of 167 class against V.P.I.

two weeks ago. This is the | ;
third year in a row that the Heavy Action Next
Week For Riflers

‘Cats matmen have decisioned
This coming week will be an

active one for the Davidson

the Bulldogs by only two
points. Dave irvin, Milton
Gee, Harold Westervelt, and
Jimmy Allen posted wins.
Pins by Irvin and Wester-

Charleston, South Carolina, for

competition, has compiled a
2-1 record while big Jim Al-
ten has lost but once in four
tries in the 177 pound class.

Coach J. B. Evans’ freshman
matters have lost both their
matches, against Carolina and
the Citadel, but several of the
Wildkittens are rated as top
prospects for next year. Jim

Alexander, 167 pounds, is unde-|

feated, and Butch LeDoyen has
won one and tied one. Light-
weights Buddy Brauch and
Mike Van Doeren both have 1-1
records.

own men capable of bagging
two or possibly three wins.
Thus far this season David-

son has a respectable record,
winning 3 and losing only to
V.M.1. by a closo margin in
the last relay, and to a very
strong Citadel team.

For
Th

e Intramural Athletic
Council voted on Wednesday to
approve next Monday, February
9, as the starting date for the
handball tournament. Six
;games will be played each day,
thereby completing a round of
_ Davidson gives no scholar-| action cach day. The handball
ships to swimmers and the: courts in the gym will be re-
team is small by current stan- served after four o'clock cach
dards. The 11 boys making the} afternoon, Monday through
trip with the varsity are: Thursday, for inter-fraternity
George Gabel, Bill Hellier, Tom games.

Hudgins. Gordon LeGrand, Jack

studying possibilities of special:

Handball Start

games.
Py

ns

a long way. | was counting on him to play center field F . t . i Continuing in its endeavor to ‘
' this year.” velt helped to provide the /Ritie Team. On Saturday, Feb- inney And Neville Rose, John Sco i ne devise a workable rule govern- Jim Nucholls
winning margin. ruary 7th, the team travels to Thurmond, and Jim Alexan Crag eligibility, the Council is Sc h C t
But the worst quote of the week was so bad we won't] Davidson went into today’s On All Southern — oph Center

even mention the offender's name.
“Hmm, see Coach Whittle started track today,” he

match with a 2-2 record, hav. |
lost to A.C.C. foes U.N.C. and
N. C: State. Coach Parker sta-|

a match with The Citadel.
Monday the ’Cats fire against.

By DEE LIDE
Claude Finney

and Gordon’

regulations for students out for:
track, swimming, and wrestling. :

Up to date, Davidson has re-
corded victories over Emory &
Henry, Catawba, Pfeiffer. Wash-

said glancing out of the window at a lone runner jog- ted that he knew very little’ Richmond: Tuesday they fire Nevin wan sy named ~~". in regard to their cligibilty for’ ington & Lec, South C.rolina
ging around the track as the sleet and freezing rain about Emory’s team but that’ soainst Furman: and on Wed-ltcam, | the intramural meets in these, (Carrousel Tournament. two ov-

descended, ‘‘Guess we'll have to call this ‘Whittle’s Ice
Capades of -1959.’” Then he walked away singing,
“Those icy cinders up and down my spine.”

Yep, there was little sporting news this week.

he was confident ane Nadine nesday the team will challenge
by comparative scores against, Washington and Lee. All three
the Citadel, Davidson should’ of these matches arc to be held
have little trouble with Wake, here at Davidson. ;
Forest. The ‘Cats will get back

This is the second straight

year that Davidson has placed s
two men on the All-Southern §

Soceer Team. The team is com

| posed of five players at cach
position, chosen by coaches and §

sports.

Problems have arisen in the
past due to the fact that it is
necessary to start varsity and
freshman practice in the re-

ertimes), and V.M.L., while los-
ing to Wake Forest, King Col-

,leve. Catawba, William & Mary

(twiee), Tennessee, St. Francis,
George Washington (latter two
in Carrousel Tournament), Fur:

i , Priday. F 13th, ; ;
Sports spectacle of the week—Tom Johnson, soccer| into shape after the’ dance On Friday. February 13h otticials Players are chosen spective sports before the in. 4" V-P.. and The Citadel
co-captain for next year making a brief appearance in weekend with a match against the team will fire in an ROT-C) com schools. in North Carolina | : terfraternit cts, leading to tY2 Overtimes). Five of the de-
P Pfeiffer College at Misenheim- jatch against Furman and Virginia, Maryland, and The! _ ertraternily mects, leading tO feats have been by margins of
'

an Interfraternity basketball game, and butting the ball

- with his head.

Coach Tom Stevens wishes to see all pitchers and

er, N. C., on Feb. 16. They won

seven out of cight divisions ini

the las€ Pfeiffer match.
Davidson’s leading wrest-

Carolina.

The rifle team has fired two

Wofford in Spartanburg, South, District of Columbia..

the ‘Cats
sophomore goalie, is
listed as the No. three goalie

Claude Finney,
fine

many students’ waiting until
after the interfraternity meets
to go out. This in turn has;
prompted protests from the!

a! ly

Tom Hudgins

four points or less.
SCORING .LEADERS

In the scoring department,

@/catchers, including freshmen desiring to try out for the| ler from the standpoint of |matches this season, defeating| on the team. Finney is the he Dave Hollingsworth continues
team, in the gym next Monday at 4:00. | his season record is red-head- “Matches this season, ee | onl ie Di St coacnes.
’ . y goalie fisted on the tance Star j
ed Milton Gee, who is unde- | Presbyterian and Wofford. roster from botow the Mason. The Council voted to sus- ® Set the pace with an 182

A PURE WHITE MODERN FILTER

oe ee oe ee ee ee ee ee oe ee om ow we oe ew ee te wee

is only the beginning of a WINSTON

Dixon Line.

This is Finney’s
straight year on the team and
the third consecutive year that
a Devidson goalie has been
named to the squad.

Wildeat Captain Gordon

second’ single out any individuals for

displayed by the whole team.

Coach Tucker would not pend the 20-day rule now gov-

erning varsity and freshman
candidates for this track sea-
son. It also set March 2 and 4
as the dates for the intramural!
track meet.

recognition, but he paid tri-
bute to the desire and spirit

Despite a noticeable lack of

average. Other Wildeat aver-
aging in the double figures are
Bill Shinn and Semi Mintz with
13.3 and 13.0. respectively.
Mintz leads in free throws, hav-
ing connected on 48 out of 60
attempts for an 80 percent

|

Neville was named as the No. depth, there are some outstand-

five man at inside left; he ...
: mmers on the team who con-
played this position only half of sul s

Council members Billy Davis} mark. Sophomore center Jim
and Henry Godwin are working Nuckolls trails him in this de-

the season. Neville is the first

‘tribute valuable first places,

on a revision of the flickerball

partment with a percentage of

V hi at's Davidson offensive player ever; This shallowness, however ie. which will be presented|71.4,
Ww to make the squad. jhurts the overall team score ato the Council at: its first meet-! Games remaining to b
- ing in March. played are: a ibe
. MEET YOUR FRIENDS An; announcement was made

up
that

front

counts

for filter smoking

While enjoying our Famous

PIZZZA and SPAGHETTI

In a Romantic Itafian Atmosphere
At The

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

Midwinters
LET US CLEAN YOUR

basketball total for failure of
their referees to show up at
a scheduled game in January.

Fourteen points by Bob Den-
ham kept the Phi Delts a game
and a half ahead of three dead-
locked teams: the SAE's, the

that the Sigma Chis will be!
penalized five points on their;

| Feb. 9—V.M.I. at Lexington

Feb. 10—Washington & Lee
at Lexington

Feb. 18—Furman at Davidson

Feb. 20 — The Citadel at
Charleston.

Ph: Delts Set Pace

bo @ W. Moorehead at Wilkinson Bivdd.
’ aa Winston puts its ? Charlotte, N. C. In Basketh [| L
lar eel | eos Ue
mt FILTER-BLEND Next Week's ; By BILL GODWIN
, y up front...fine, flavorful > athe ne pets: undisputed leaders in inter-fraternity
asketball, retained a perfect record Tuesday night as
ba tobaccos, specially processed

they snatched their sixth victory from the KA’s, 45 to

a 4-2 reeord, good for fifth

splace.

The Sigma Chis made it two
wins against three defeats with

Independents and the Phi a 46-38 victory over the Betas.
TUX AND SUITS, SWEATERS AND Gams. George Hart collected 16 points
7 LIDE HOT for the winners. And the Pi-

we wee

oe aa ne

.

yw Swoon

TUX SHIRTS

"Freshen The impression”

AT

JACKSON
CLEANERS

In other court action Tuesday
night, Dee Lide dunked in 15,
but the Phi Gams nipped the
Pi Kapps, 48 to 44. The SAE’s
stayed in contention with 15
points by Lee Cory and a 57-
34 win over the Betas,

The Kappa Sigs, with Harry
Tart and Donnic McQueen split-
ting 26 points, outlasted the
ATOs. 40 to 32,

Monday night, as the Phi
Delts idled the SAE’s added an-
other victory over the ATO's,
52-40, to give themselves a
Tuesday total of four wins and

kas handed the Sigma Nu’'s

their fifth consecutive loss, 38

to 24.

NEXT WEEKS’ SCHEDULE
Monday, 4 P. M.

Phi Delts and Pi Kapps
Independents and Betas
Tuesday, 7:30 P. M.

KAs and Pikas
Kappa Sigs and Sigma Nus
Tuesday, 8:30 P. M.

Phi Gams and Sigma Chis
SAE’s and SPE’s
HANDBALL
The I-F handball tourney is
slated to begin Monday, Feb-

; — - a. © Aha " td, Reynolds Tob, Co., MAIN STREET DAVIDSON one loss. ruary 16. The Betas, who were
N TASTES G re) OD Winston-Balem, N.C. Also on Monday, the Pi undefeated in both singles and
Kapps, with Quinton Boyd hit- doubles last year, will be
WINSTO LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD | ting 19. downtrod the winless strongly - challenged hy the
3 . r) SPE’s, 60-36. The Pi Kapps hold ATO’s and the Phi Delts.

