PAGE FOUR

i

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MS Ill’s Observe After Vespers Open Houses

Fort Bragg, Citadel

MS III ROTC cadets were
visiting Fort Bragg and the
Citadel today as part of the
annual spring program for

McGavock
McLane
Maloney
Martin

Abernethy
Col. Adams
Bernard
Clark

ODK Members

(Continued Frora Page One)

secretary-treasurer and second
vice-president of the student
“body. He is an honors student
in English.

FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1959

Projects

The Y Cabinet met Tuesday night and continued

that class. Approximately
sixty students toured the
army post while ten others
are guests of the military

Davidson Pietenpol
Puckett
Sailstad

Woods

Warden will serve as presi-
dent of the senior class and
captain of the*football team for

Fredericksen
Goldiere
Hopkins

its plans and preparations for the forthcoming year.
One of the main topics of discussion was membership
policy. The present policy of conducting both the interest
and financial drives at the same time, along with two

Waiting at the ramp for the next load of mail are three
employees of the local Post Office, Carson Knox (left), Gil-
bert Cashion (center), and Clyde Griffin. There are four
more employees, including Postmaster Mayhew who serve

the Davidson community.

college today and tomor-
row.

The Fort Bragg trip ts an an-
nual excursion designed to give
the cadets a picture of life on
an army post for a regular army
unit. Guests of the Special War-
fare Center, the group saw dis-
plays and demonstrations of the
activities of that center, includ-
ing the special forces, radio
broadcasting and leaflet groups.
Captain Lumsden accompanied
the cadets.

Each year the Citadel invites
outstanding MS 10 cadets to
observe the military system at

Workman

Jackson

Sigma Upsilon Abolishes
Black-Ball Bidding System

Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity has broken with
tradition by abolishing the black-ball system of issuing
invitations.

The following resolution was mon table in the Sigma Upsilon

presented to the group at its meeting place (or at some oth-
zr place to be agreed upon) no

next year. A pre-med student,
he has been active in YMCA
and D Club.

Col. Adams is the PMS&T of
Davidson ROTC Department.
He is an active participant in
community, campus, and
church affairs.

60 IFC Considers
New Football Social

At a meeting of the IFC on

One plan calls for only an in-
terest drive with the financial
support to come entirely from
the Vespers offering. Special
emphasis was placed on a third
plan which would call for ar
interest drive which would be
followed in about two weeks by
a financial drive.

Further plans were also
made for the retreat on May
8, at Erwin Lodge. All in-
terested students are invited
to attend this meeting, which
wilt be primarily held so that

that school and promote good! meeting Wednesday nen by
relations between the two col-| Professor Goodykoontz and ac-
leges. Last year the group was' cepted unanimously:
entertained by a yacht cruise, 4 That the next election of
a orning Piesnection sidan new members to Sigma Upsilon
. be held on Thursday, May 7.
night is free for the cadets. 2. That any student at David-
Captain Mitchell and three’ son College shall be placed on
MS VI cadets are heading the the jist of nominees for mem-

the old end new Cabinet of-
ficers and project chairmen
ean get together.

The Author’ Program, which
would present three or four
contemporary books to the stu-

‘ater than noon on the day set| April 27, President Ward MNe-
for the election of new mem-|Keithen outlined his plans for
bers and, thus, made available} next year.

for reading and consideration; The group considered the
by all interested members of| possibility of having a big-name
Sigma Upsilon prior to the bal-) band or vocal group come and 4
loting on nominees. entertain at one home football Community will be displayed.

dents each year, was also dis-
ga t h he Homecom- .
4. That no students be con- oe © pther than the “This, ad. | cussed. Under this plan, after

sidered for membership who dition,” explained McKeithen, ; ©2¢h book is read, cither the

|

possible alternate plans were discussed.

author or some authority in the
field would be brouglit to the
campus to lead discussion on
the book.

On the local scene the Y
hopes to increase its work in
the Negro churches and to do
more for the sanatorium at
Huntersville and the Berium
Springs Orphanage. ft also
hopes to help with high
school orientation.

On the international level,
plans are being made for co-
operation with the World Uni-
versity Service. This is an inter-
faith organization which en-
deavors to promote closer ties
among the world intellectual
circle.

Next year, possibly replacing
the present Religious Emphasis
Week, the Y hopes to have two
sets of services. One will pos-
sibly be'a comparative study of

delegation. Cadet Colonel Sam
Clarke and Cadet Captains Roy
Gilbert and Sam McGuirt are
the seniors on the trip. The ten
juniors are Cadet Sgts. Bobby
Avinger, Charlie Benson. Mar-
vin Bentley, Gus Burgdorf, Wil-
liam Davis, George Hart. John.
Huie, Al MacKay, Ward Mc-:;
Keithen, and Larry McNeil. |

Local Post Office
Is A Busy Place

By CHARLES ROSE
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Long before the town and college of Davidson be-
gins to stir each morning, a group of men are busily
at work keeping the wheels of this community rolling.
These men are employees of the Federal Government,
and their work day begins at about five-thirty almost
every morning of the year. Rarely seen, unless you have
to buy some stamps or pick up a package, but neverthe-
less on the job, these seven men run the Davidson, North
Carolina Post Office.

|
|

are run through the cancella-

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Renew your subscription now so that you may re-
ceive all next year’s DAVIDSONIANS beginning with the
Orientation Issue next September.

Don't miss important campus news. Only $2.00

bership provided that, on or be-
fore the day preceding the
above date, he submits two
specimens: of his writing — of
any type—to the Union Desk.

fail to submit two specimens Of  uwould give Davidson another’
wring in the manner set forth yis football weekend and a

; good opportunity for a popular

5. That any student on the. social.”
list of nominees who is ap-| McKeithen explained the
proved for membership in Sig-!need to examine Rush Week
ma Upsilon by a majority of |regulations for next fall and
those members present and vot-' emphasized his plans to enforce
ing shall be issued an invita- the rules for a successful Greek
tion to become a member of the Week. “I would suggest,” Mc-
fraternity. .Keithen added, “that the pledge
program include constructive
' community projects throughout
lthe entire pledge program.”

The meeting closed after a
‘change in the method for win-
ning the Fraternity Blood Drive
Award. Next year, those who
are exempted from blood dona-
tions for medical or athletic

3. That it shall be the re-
sponsibility of each member to
see that-the writings submitted
to him are placed on a com-

Sigma Nu Retains
Blood Drive. Trophy

During last Monday's blood
drive, two hundred and sixty-

religions, with the other on vo-

cations.
Baroque Concert Commenting on the plans arid
organization for next year,

President Dave Robinson feels

Climaxes Fine Arts |r:
at “the response to next

The Davidson College twelfth year's program of the Y has
annual Fine Arts Festival will’ been very heartening and en-
conclude next week with the) couraging.”
final programs centered about

ithe Baroque theme, an organ
recital and a concert by the.

Frafernity Singers

Davidson Chamber Orchestra.
Paul Langston, Minister of
Music at st. John’s Baptist! 1Q Serenade May 7
Church, will play organ selec- 4 .
tions in the College Church on| The annual Interfraternity
Tuesday, May 5 at 8:15 p.m. His|Sing will be held on May 7 at
selections will include the Ba-| 7:00 p.m. on the steps of Cham-
‘roque compositions of Henry bers Building. The event is
Purcell, Marcello, Johann Kell-|Sponsored by the Gamma Kap-

At five forty-five a mau truck

pulls up behind the new brick tion machine. This canceled Name

Post Office and deposits an mail is next cased for distei-

average of twenty-five hundred vtion in one of seventy-five Address __

pieces of mail each morning. separations. All of the letters -
Taken from the truck in sealed in each separation are tied City _

eanvas bags, the mail is dumped
onto sorting tables inside the
building and the job of work-
ing it into the various sections
is begun. Papers and packages
are removed from the regular
mail and put up separately..
Letters and small packages
are sorted into one of thirteen
sections, each section represent-
ing a particular block of per-
sonal boxes, After being placed
in these sections, the mail is
carried to a ledge just behind
its respective section of boxes,
and the final task of placing the
mail in the right ‘slot of 1310
similar slots, is begun.

Whether you make your
morning trip to the P.O. be-
fore or after breakfast, the
mail is up. Before and after
breakfast and supper and dur-
ing the chapel break, seem to

with brawn string and
marked for regional destina-
tions.

Into the canvas bags and soon
off on the mail truck, letters
and packages from this com-'
munity reach their destination
in the fastest manner available.
The trucks which carry mail to
and from Davidson are not
property of the Government,
but are owned by private par-
ties who work on a contract ba-!
sis with the Post Office Depart-
ment. These trucks make up 4
nation wide fleet of mail car-
riers that is known as the Star
Route.

The business of the Post Of-
fice may be the last thing you
think about when you go by
to pick up your mail. It is one

—I Enclose Two Dollars

—Bill Me Later

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.

Professor Thies .
(Continued From Page one) Five t Hail Qf May

Under his control are the Student registration Zor next
steam plant and the entire year’s elssses will be conduct-

Registration Sei For

three students each donated a
pint .of blood. Considering the
fact that Monday was not the
most satisfactory time to have
the campaign, both Captain
Mitchell, of the ROTC depart-
ment, and the Red Cross rep-
resentatives regarded the turn-
out as a success.

Ward. McKeithen, tne IFC
president announced Wednes-
day the results of the inter-fra-
ternity competition. In first
place were the Sigma Nu’s, re-
taining their first place plaque
won from last fall's blood cam-
pticn. Seventy-five percent of
their fraternity turned .out to
donat’ forty-three pints. In sec-
ond place was Beta Theta Pi.

electrical system of the col-
lege. Whenever new build-
ings are constructed on cam-
pus, much of the detail elec-
trical work is in the hands of
Mr, Thies.

After an interview with Pro- ‘work;" he stated. “They

ed between May 1 and May 15, Seventy percent of the Betas
Mr. F. W. Hengeveld announced gave forty pints of bload. Alpha
today. ayy Omega was third with
; ‘thirty two pints donated — by

“We have been waiting on’+. <i percent:of their mem-
the booklet “Courses of SIn- 4 -
struction” before we begin lent NicKeithen also
-TG CX gave.a word of ‘explanation con-

+

of many things that affect us fessor Thies one can readily sec
daily we take completely for, why he fits so well into the po-

pected to arrive today”

be the favorite times for stue granted, brt one our country
dent twsiness. would be paralyized without.
At eight o’clock the business —

These booklets will 1+ avail-
able in the Registrar’s Office
for any students who wish to
procure copies. They furnish a

sition of college ehgineer. This:
man whom his wife calls a “na-
tural born engineer” combines
his chemical and mechanical

department of the Post Office
opens and customers rush in to
buy stamps or pick up pack- |

Dean Bevan Plans

knowledge to combat any cngi-
neering problems which .may/
arise on the campus.

able at Davidson next year.

cernine the unsatisfactory date
of the drive, which directly fol-
lewed the. dance weekend. He
explained that the bloodmobile
schedules its route a year: in

‘complete list of courses avail- advance. It was, therefore, im-
|possible for the date to be

t

changed.

ages. Each year the. Daviason| WESPEFS Address

Post Office takes in about forty Dr. John M. Bevan, Associate
thousand -dollars. for the sale professor of Psychology, will be
of stamps, box rent and money ihe speaker for the Vesper ser-
order fees. . _ |vice Sunday evening, May 3.
At nine o'clock the first ship-| After seven years on the Da-
ment ,of mail leaves the Post vidson faculty, Dr. Bevan will
Office. Mail also leaves at one, jeave in June to assume his new
five and seven o'clock. All out- duties as Dean of the new Flori-

As soon as the booklets arc
lavailable, students will be asked The Red Cross has assured
{to register with their faculty| the College that blood would

counselor or the professor in be made available to those in-

their major department. Efforts |. .
| will be made to complete the, ‘ividuals in necd whose names

{registration before exams be-}were suggested by a number
i ‘ of the student donors.

Lemp’s Story Wins
Vereen Bell Award

Lachicotte Zemp received gin.

reasons will be substracted in
number from the total fra- No. 1” and the
ternity membership in com-” ,
puting the donor percentage. “in

All Charlotte Calls size sxtmic ear he
Direct Line In July

The Southern Bell Telephone he College Chamber Orches-|
Company has announced that tra will present its concert of!
it will incorporate the exchange Baroque music on Friday eve-
of the town of Davidson into ning at 8:15 in Chambers Audi-
the Charlotte Exchange on the torium, under the direction of |
night of July 11. -Frank West. Robert Snyder of’

At the present time the col- the Queens College Music;
lege has two direct lines to: faculty will be the guest soloist,
Charlotte: one in the Union, playing the Concerto for Violin
with regularly scheduled times in B-flat by Pergolesi with the
for student use, and one in the orchestra.
Business Office which may be In connection with the con-
used for business calls. All tele- cert, a special art exhibit as-
phones in the town will be-! sembled by Professor Douglas
come in effect direct lines Houchens will be shown in the
when the planned change is Chambers lobby and the Col-
made. Iege Union Ballroom. Prints

There will be an increase in and creative work by Davidson
all phone service rates in the students and members of the
College Fraternity Court, and Community will be displayed.
in town. How much long-dis-
tance rates will be affected is
not known. There will be no
change in the “TWin Oaks” ex-.
change name.

In addition, Southern Bell
Telephone Co. is conducting a
survey for the college on its
need for a switchboard. If the
efficiency of service can be in-
creased, and the cost reduced,
a switchboard may be installed
before the changeover to the
Charlotte exchange.

faculty.

While enjoying

PIZZZA and

ner, and Bach’s “Trio Sonata,P® Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha
“Gigue Fugue.”| Sinfonia Fraternity. Felix Yar-
An informal reception honor-| oro is in charge of the plan-
g Langston will be held fol-|®!N8.

Each of the participating

current academic year, he is|Choruses from the social fra-

Visiting Instructor of Theory on|tetnities will be judged on the
‘the Davidson College Music| following percentage bases: a)

General tonal effect (40), b) En-
tertainment value (20), c)
Choice of songs (15), d) Ar-
rangement of songs (15), e)
Mode of presentation (10).

One a capella number is re-
quired for each group. Only

one novelty number will be per- ,

mitted per fraternity. Also, a
maximum of one fraternity
song has been set for each
chorus.

Last year Sigma Chi, Grier
Davis conducting, won the gold
cup. Jim Bootle led the Phi Del-
ta Thetas to a second-place win.
Third went to Sigma Alpha Ep-
silon, Pete Wyrick conducted.

The conductor's cup was
awarded to Grier Davis, and
Perrin Wright, Alpha Tau Ome-
ga, won second place.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

our Famous

SPAGHETTI

In a Romantic Italian Atmosphere
At The

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. Morehead at Wilkinson Blvd.
Charlotte, N. C.

going mail goes first to Char-|dq Presbyterian. College at St.jthe. Vereen Bell Memorial

lotte except the one o’clock
mail which travels to Greens-
boro.

When a letter is placed in
the out of town box, it re-
mains there until the next
outgoing batch is prepared.
All of the stamps are turned
the same way and the letters

Petersburg, Florida.
Dr. Bevan received

logical training before he en-

tered the field of psychology.

Award for creative writing

theo-| in Thursday's chapel.

The announcement followed

He attended the Evangelical. 2" address in verse by Dr. Gra-

and Reformed Theological
Seminary, and graduated from
Duke University Theological

Seminary in 1945. He then did'

graduate work in Arts and

dy D. Eggers, chairman of the
Hhhglish Department, Duke Uni-
versity. Dr. Eggers judged the
entries and Mr. Zemp received
$75 prize money. Tom Kernan

Davidson To Trace Sciences at Duke University}received Honorable Mention.

Literary Societies

Dr. Chalmers Davidson will

and received the M.A. degree

Each year creative writing is

in 1948, and in 1952 completed| submitted by the students wish-’

work for his Ph.D. degree.

ing to compete for the award.

During 18-months service in| the English department con-

Do You Think for Yourself ?

1. If your parents exhibited “baby pictures”

just plain annoyed?

t

to a friend, would you he (A) embarrassed? (B)
merely interested in your friend’s reaction? (c)

. You are making a speech—and suddenly find you
have a large hole in your clothes. Would you (a)
excuse yourself and leave? (B) pretend you didn’t
know the hole was there and finish the speech?
(Cc) cover up the hole with a handkerchief?

. Would you rather have the characteristics of (a)

be the guest speaker at the,
joint meeting of the Philan- University, he was chaplain of
thropic and Eumanean Literary|the Duke cadet corps. In his
Societies on May 4 at 8:30 p.m.| years of teaching, he has filled
in the Ballroom of the College| numerous pulpits as well as
Union. other speaking engagements.

Dr. Davidson will trace the] He is a member of Phi Beta
histories of the two societies Kappa, Pi Gamma Mu, Sigma
from their early days when they! psi, and Alpha Kappa Pi hon-
were the center of almost all- orary fraternity. He is a mem-
extra-curricular activities on'ber of the American Psycho-
the campus. These historic in- logical Association and of the
stitutions are. modified descen- American Association for the
dants of their past organiza- advancement of Science, and is
tions, since the campus social. president of the North Carolina
fraternitics have gradually tak-’ Psychological Association.
en over many of their activi-
ties. |
The minutes of the societies,
from their founding in 1838 to
the present, have been pre-
served. Dr. Davidson has been
able to trace the history in de-'
tail by studying these valuable
records and about fifty old let-:
ters which contain references
to the two groups.

The societies will also elect
their officers for the next
semester at this meeting.

After

the Naval program at Duke qucts the annual contest, set-

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE |

1800 W. MOOREHEAD ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Open Nitely 5-12 P. M. | i

FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED 2-2414

ting the prize and selecting the
;judges. The prize money is |
drawn from a fund of $3944.12
established by friends of
Vereen Bell, Class of 1932.

Vereen Bell established a rep-
utation as a writer on Southern
life. He gained fame even be-
fore his death in the Second
Battle of the Philippine Sea
(1944). He was the son of
Georgia Chief Justice and Mrs.!
R. C. Bell of Thomasville,
Georgia.

. You have taken your date to dinner and fi

!
t

| The Man Who Thinks for H

2 P.M.

U.S. Grant? (B) Thomas Edison? (c) J. P. Morgan?

haven't money to tip the waiter as well as take
your date home. Would you (A) ignore the waiter?
(B) take him aside and tell him you'll tip him next
day? (c) tip him and walk your date home?

THIS TEST WILL GIVE
YOU A CLUE! *

5. Mathematies is your poorest subject, yet you are

of you aQ + Jt C2" ago
aD WSU gy fascinated by the idea of being an atomic physicist. 80
cg Would you (A) try to overcome your difficulties eco
with math? (B) pick an easier occupation? (c)
ask yourself if it’s physics you like or its glamour?
40 6. Your roommate is a nice person, but suddenly aQ
a takes to asserting an ability to foretell the future. 9
¢O Would you (a) notify the authorities? (B) ignore 6G
the whole thing? (c) give him tests to prove to
him he’s wrong?
ag . ZZ 7. Do you believe the maxim “It’s a long lane that aQ
e0 amen} has no turning’’ is (A) a complete non sequitur? .@f
co (B) a well-known fact? (c) an allusion toacom- ef
mon phenomenon?
nd you AJ
60 8. Would you rather have as a birthday present (a) AQ
co something expensive? (B) something long-lasting? @D
(c) something beautiful? cp

9. In choosing a filter cigarette, would you AQ

pick one that (A) claims it filters best? p(y
(B) merely says it tastes good? (c) co
gives you a thinking man’s filter and a
smoking man’s taste?
If you’re the kind of person who thinks for
yourself... you use judgment in your
choice of cigarettes, as in everything else.
Men and women who think for themselves
usually smoke VICEROY. Their reason?
Best in the world. They know that only
VICEROY has a thinking map’s filter and
a smoking man’s taste,

*If you have checked (B) in three out of the

first four questions, and (C) in four out of

the last five... you think for yourselfl

© 1050, Drown @ Willlamson Tobseeo Corp,

imself Know:

ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S
™ FILTER...A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

New YMCA Cabinet |

y
