FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1959

SIDELINES
ON SPORTS $

By B. MILLNER

Perhaps it is appropriate, with Dr. Grier Martin's in-
auguration so near at hand, to take a look at our Pres-
ident from the sporting viewpoint.

Mr. (we can’t get used to calling him ‘Dr.’) Martin 5
played forward and center on the fine Davidson basket-

ball team that enjoyed successful seasons during the £
years 1930-32. He didn’t have a scholarship, as subsi-
dization was not an official practice then. ;

When we asked him about his scoring average Mr.
Martin grinned and said, “It wasn’t too high. I was high
point man my senior year but I only scored a total of ““~
125 points.”

He commented that the team’s best season was his om
junior year when they won their first six games in a
row, including wins over State, Carolina, Duke, and
Wake Forest. |

Three outstanding men who played on that team
are Bill Goodson, Captain, who has a son at Davidson
now; Doc Mathis, a forward, who is head coach at Elon
College; and Dean Rusk, also a forward, who became a
Rhodes Scholar and spoke here this year.

Mr. Martin compared basketball at Davidson then
with the present style of play. “It was a much slower
game then because of the center jump after every =...
basket made. Also, nobody knew the jump shot—scores'
were much lower. Once when my boy Mike got to play’
against Duke as a sophomore, he scored eleven points
He and D. G. laugh about that because when I Points|
in one game Duke beat us 13-8.”

SPORTS AT RANDOM

Coach Whittle has had to do quite a bit of jug-,
gling to field a track team deep enough to win any meets
this season. Injuries to all-around trackman Chris Bremer
and sturdy Larry McT?.eil, a reliable distance runner, have
hurt. But some of Whittle’s switches, plus a few new
faces, and workhorse performances from the old hands
have combined to give the cindermen a very respectable
4-2 record.

Ed Kizer gave uv the 100 for the 440 and has won|a 4-2 season record.
afl three of his races. Muscular Hank Pharr, who could| It will be the first meeting
hardly get off the ground last year, recently tied a school ae two squads Catawba vie
record in the pole-vault. Walter Bishop wasn’t evén g0-| jing colleges, is relatively new
ing out for track until Whittle asked him to, and the to track. In their fifth season,

long-legged sprinter has done extremely well in the)the Indians placed fourth in
hurdles. the state. Cross-Country trials
last year.

INDIANS RUN WELL
Coach Heath Whittle this
week said that tomorrow's meet

'

6’

* * * * * *

Finley Lee, who hadn't lost a tennis match up until
his default at Durham last week, has been taking heat
treatments for his back, injured while delivering his|..0 uid be interestin g. Cataw.
“screwed-up serve” in the Duke match. If Lee is not|,, j, good in the ‘runs,’ but not
able to play today and tomorrow in Virginia, the 'Cats|so good in field events. They
may be hard-pressed. have a capable coach. Nothing

4 is new with us," Coach Whittle
commented, ‘except in the jave-
lin throw. Jennings. Snider.
who began practice only two
weeks ago, has already im-
proved his distance by 11 feet.
In the Furman meet, he placed
third, but threw for 150 ft. sev-
en inches.”

RICHMOND NEXT

One week from today David-
son will play host to Rich-
mond’s Spiders, ‘They're weak-
er than Catawba—” said Whit-
tle, “we should have.a pretty
easy time.” Last year Richmond
defeated the Wildcats,

Davidson’s relay team proved
outstanding in the Furman loss
Wednesday. Composed of Rog-
er Beebe, Brownie Thurman,
Ed Kizer and Chester Alexan-
der,. the foursome finished
three yards ahead of the Fur.
man runners and were clocked
at 3:29.

Angus. McBryde copped the
two-mile run in 10:14.8. He was

* td

Many thanks are due to John Poindexter’s father,
who generously donated the green canvas background
mats for the lower tennis courts.

Another court improvement will be the night light-
ing arrangement which the senior class has voted to

equip the tennis plant with.
* * s

* » 8

ss *« 8 ©&

We'd sure like to run the College Bowl news on the
sports page, especially if Davidson wins, but Mr. Editor
won't see to it. Can’t you see those headlines now—DA-
VIDSON STOMPS MINNESOTA IN BOWL GAME.

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE

1800 W. MOOREHEAD ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Open Nitely 5-12 P. M.

FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED 2-2414
After 2 P. M.

Do You think for Yourself ? (
ay

1. When you feel that certain fads are
foolish do you talk against them?

2. Do gadgets such as new cigarette
lighters often intrigue you so you
want to take them apart?

. Do you think that political candidates
should write their own speeches
instead of using a “ghost writer’?

4. Given the choice, would you prefer
having an apartment of your own to
living at home with your parents?

your own thinking?

in a filter cigarette.

‘a &

; a
—

yourself!

oe

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows —

vol] Sih
veel ]e] ver

9. Do you base your choice of
a cigarette on what people
tell you rather than doing

You'll notice that men and women who
think for themselves usually smoke
VICEROY. Their reason? They’ve made a
thinking choice. They know what they want

VICEROY gives it to them! A_thinking
man’s filter and a smoking man’s taste!

*If you have answered “YES” to three out
of the first four questions and “NO” to four
out of the last five... you really think for

©1030, Brown & Wiltlamson Tobacco Corp.

THE DAV

IDSONIAN

Davidson’s net sextet,

PAGE THREE

".. Netmen Hit G.W. Tomorrow

By BOB GREEN
having suffered a 9-0 defeat by Chapel Hill’s stellar squad last Friday, traveled fo

Richmond today for a Southern Conference match.

The ‘Cats will be seeking
revenge at Richmond and to-
morrow at Washington where
the travelers will meet
George Washington. Coach
Dick McKee doesn’t feel that
Richmond will be very stiff
competition as several key
players graduated lest year.
The concrete courts at the
Virginia school will provide
some fast-moving play.
George Washington, led by

vidson 6-3 ecaylier this season.
Coach McKee stated, “GW is
the only team better than Da-
vidson in the conference. We

‘ might surprise ourselves and,
: beat them this time.”.

Angus McBryde wins the mile by thirty yards in the
High Point meet last Saturday. McBryde has yet to be de-
feated in an outdoor meet this year. (Photo by Blake)

Wildcat Thinclads Meet
Catawba Here Tomorrow

Davidson’s varsity trackmen, suffering from a 77.5-53.5 defeat at Furman Wed-
nesday afternoon, will enco-.nter Catawba College here tomorrow. The ’Cats sport

second in the javelin.

In the 440 Ed Kizer placed
first in 51.4 seconds. John Huie
lied for top spot in the high
jump with five ft. eight in.

HIGH POINT CLOBBERED

Last Saturday on Richardson
Field the Wildcats smashed an
undermanned High _ Point
squad, 97.5 to 31.5. “It was sur-
prising,” Whittle said, “how
poorly they showed.”

Davidson took the tirst tnree
places in four events: javelin,
mile, 440 and discus throw,

Outstanding Wildcat perform-
ance in the lopsided meet in-
eluded a 175’ 2” javelin hurl by
Stuart Nickolls, good for first
place. John Huie high-jumped
five ft. 10 in. to share a first.

In the 100-yd dash Mel Arm-
Strong grabbed a win in 10.2
seconds. Marvin Bentley was
second.

Frank Cenegy heaved the dis-
cus 132 ft. 11 in., as Davidson
was without competition from
High Point. Hugh Murray and
Mike Laughlin tied for first in
the broad jump.

Davidson also placed first in
the 220, the two-mile, and the
Shot, in which High Point did
not enter.

The only firsts for High Point
were in the high hurdles—Da-
vidson took second; the 880—
second and third place went to
the Wildcats; and the low hur-
dles and the relays.

FROSH UNDEFEATED

Coach Tucker's junior cinder-

THESE

you inclined to join a group

7. If you met somebody with a heard,
would you tend to consider him “‘off-
beat’’ and treat him with reserve?

on a “blind date’’?

They know that

ONLY VICEROY HAS A

CAN TELL YOU A LOT
ABOUT YOURSELF! *

6. Do you prefer a salesman who is
anxious to make a quick sale to one
who wilt patiently answer all your
questions about the product?

6. When arriving late for a party, are

friends rather than attempting to
strike up new acquaintances?

8. Are you normally reluctant to go

Last Thursday and Friday
were black days for the Wildcat
racket squad with the team los-
ing 63 at Duke and 9-0 at
Chapel Hill.
| In the Duke match Semi|
Mintz, Davidson's top-seeded
netter. stopped Joe Gaston 6-3,
2-6, 6-2. Dick Hodel played well
but was outpointed by Duke’s
Frank Graham 5-7, 6-2, 7-5. Ho-
del and Doug Orr teamed up

to win their doubles match in|fighthander Pat Henderson for scored four runs and combined

straight sets, 6-2, 61. 6-2, 6-1.

men clipped the Furman frosh
Wednesday, 78 to 52 in Gréen-
ville.

Grant McCrorie and Randy
Austin posted double wins to
give the Wildkittens a three-
wins-no-losses record. They
have defeated East Mecklen-
burg High and Wake Forest,
in addition to Furman.

McCrorie placed first in the
220 (23.7 seconds) and in the
100-yd dash (10.7 secs.).

Austin heaved the shot 39 ft.
eight in., while sharing the
broad jump mark at five ft.
four in., with teammate Dan
Calhoun.

Cross-Country standout David
Gilmour copped the mile in
4:39. Larry Kinny. was third.

In the javelin throw Andy
Boggs distanced 140’ 11”
for a first. He also took the dis-
cus with 123’ 5".

John Chiles grabbed the oth-
er Davidson win in the broad
jump. He cleared 19’ 9.5",
while Calhoun took third.

The Wildkittens finished at
feast as high as second place

in all events. In the mile re-
lay David Gilmour, Al Jones,
Bill, Whittington and Grant
McCrory were beaten by Fur-
man.

John Harris took second
places in the 440 and 880. Whit-
tington was second in the high
and low hurdles.

In the pole vault Tommy Lu-
cas was runner- up.

QUESTIONS

ves(7] wef]
else ves[_] so[_]

ves[ ] nol]
ves[ | no[ |

it

THINKING MAN'S
FILTER...A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE]

great comeback in the past sev-
the Tarr brothers, whipped Da-|——————-_-—_-

GREEN WINS SECOND

Wildcat golf team will meet South Carolina, for a return
Furman and Wake Forest In a

triangular match on the Myers
Park Country Club course in
Charlotte. The Davidson golfers
will be swinging against the
strongest team in the Atlantic
Coast Conference when they
battle with Wake Forest on
Monday. Although the Wake
Forest team still hasn’t played
the University of North Caro-
lina or North Carolina State,

the strongest teams in this area.

Geoffrey Bleck played er-
roless tennis In pacing Caro-
lina to a 90 decision over Da-
vidson Friday. The veteran
competitor breezed by Mintz,
6-0, 6-1. Bruce Silvia, playing
in Carolina’s number two
slot, also played overwhelm-
ing tennis. The winners won
eight of the nine matches in
straight sets.

“Carolina’s team has made a

eral years," McKee stated. and although the Wolfpack has
“They have a real good coach improved in their one and two
and are truly a great team. The positions, Davidson's superior
Tar Heels were our best com- depth should see them through.

petition since Miami last real
and playing them will help us ROTC Rifl
emen
Win Second Place

get ready for the conference
match. We have a return match
with them here on the 23rd
and we should see the finest
tennis ployed a pavidson tt this The Davidson College rifle
- team copped second place in
The "Cats face State Monday io" North Carolina R.O.T.C. In-
viational Tournament held in
Raleigh last Monday. The Uni-
versity of North Carolina Naval
R.0.T.C. took first place with
3695 points out of a possible
4000. Davidson shot for 3671
points. Wake Forest took a
third place in the match.

Horsehiders Whip PC,
Face Bulldogs Today

By BILL GODWIN
Righthander Dee Green lifted Davidson’s baseball
hopes here Wednesday afternoon, hurling a 13 to 1 vic-\
tory over Presbyterian College. Going into a two-day
series at The Citadel today, the ’Cats carried a 2-9 sea-:
son’s record.
Probable pitchers were stocky with a double in three at-bats,’

Captain Stan Gaines and
Cocaptain Joe Wearn spark-
ed the riflemen with their
usual top shooting. Gaines
had the second highest in-
dividual score of the entire
field with 764 points out of a
maximum of 800. He afso had
the third high standing score,
was high scorer for Davidson,
and was selected to the all-

this afternoon's d with second baseman Harold’ gsate team.

—————|Green tomorrow. Bynum for a pair of decisive,

Coach Tom Stevens said this double plays. Co-eaptain Wearn compiled
ere “I don't know what to Area major league scouts'the fourth highest tournament
expect from the Bulldogs, They representing Washington, Balti-' score. Wearn had the third high
have a tough hitter named more and the Chicago Cubs, kneeling score and was select-

Jones and a good all-around watched the game. ed to the all-state team along
Vall club, " The. Citadel last year The Wildcat junior varsity,| with Gaines. Other team mem-
finished third in Southern Con- coached by Jim Walthal, clob-|bers shooting well were Don
ference play... bered Gaston Tech, 14 to 3, , Harper, Marvin Rozear, Bob

Coach Stevens said he might here last Thursday. Jerry Shef- Barringer, and Ronald Fonda.
swap his centerfielders in this field and Jerry Shelton shared. \
weekend’s serics. Ed Garrett, ‘Kitten pitching duties, as first | None of the boys will be
he said, may start in place of baseman Tom Harris connected! lost by graduation, and Ser-
Harry Shaw. Garrett played sev- for a homer. The team, with a; geant McCurry is “looking

game

en innings in Wednesday's 3-1 scason’s record, hosted Westi forward to a better season
game. Mecklenburg High today. mext year.”
“If we have the pitching,”!———
Stevens said, “we'll be tough.” ! s
The Wildcats. scheduled for ATO Ph D It L d
two games in the past six days, S } ] e@ S Cd
were rained out at Pfeiffer last
Saturday. ean
Presbyterian took a beating
Wednesday as the Wildcats |-F Softball Competition
clubbed out seven hits for 13
runs. Dee Green went seven| By TOM PATRICK
innings, allowing only five his Although bogged down by rain at the first of the
oe Cat bats exploded in the week, Intramural softball wound into full swing Wed-
third inning for five runs in| nesday.
Davidson's biggest single frame | Now in the fourth round, Lee Cory, S.A.E.; Joe Milner,
of the season. Bob Groome sin-! the ATO’s held a 40 lead
gled in Ed Garrett and Don| over the second place Phi

SX; Bob Davis, Phi Delt; Bert
Keller, Pi Kapp; Jim Overall,

Killian, who had doubled:| Delt’s with a 3-0 record. In A.T.O.; Hight Redman, KA;
Pitcher Dee Green got a pair! third place, having lost only Ned Gwathmey, Beta; and
of R.B.IL's: with a single. one game to the Phi Delt’s, Burns, Ind.

He blanked P.C. without a hit
for three innings and went on
to post his second win against
one loss. Pat Henderson re-
lieved him in the eighth.

Third baseman Russ Cotton
boosted his batting average to
.400 (16 for 40) with a double
and a single to retain his lead
over Wildcat teammates. Dee
Green is second with a .355 av-
erage.

Shortstop

were the Betas with a 3-1 rec-
_ ord, The Kappa Sigs, KA’s,
Phi Gams, and SAE’s all havo
2-1 records.

Plans for the intramural ten-
‘nis tournament have been made
and it has been decided to use
a double elimination system in-
stead of the single elimination
system used last year.

Those entering in the singles:
Jerry Clark, Kappa Sig; John
Warlick, S.P.E.; Parks, Pika;

tn Wednesday’s action Bob
Davis beat Bert Keller 7-5,
6-2; Lee Cory whipped Joe
Milner 6-3, 6-2; and High Red-
man breezed by New Gwath-
mey 62, 6-1.

Finishing up this year as
president of the IMAC, Ralph
Wilson announced that the
election of new officers for
next year will be held at the
meeting ling Thursday, April 23. 23.

olfers Duel Paladins,
Play Tri-Match Monday

By TOM RAIFORD
Early today the Davidson linksters journeyed to Greenville, South Carolina, for

“Weasel” Killian,

a match with the Purple Hurricanes of Furman University.

On Monday, April 20th, the find Davidson at Myrtle Beach, tcam positions respectively.
; STEADY SHOOTERS
match with The Citadel Bull. Coach Scott
dogs. The match is scheduled ”
to be held at the Dunes Golf
Club, one of the finest courses
in the South. In earlier season |
competition, the Wildcat link-
sters defeated a mediocre Cita-
del squad 22-5.

This year the Davidson golf
team includes Verner Stanley,
Tom Johnson, Sam Sloan, Sut *
Alexander, Bucky Dennis, and -
Gary Heeseman.: At the end of :
five eighteen-hole rounds, Stan-
ley, Johnson, and Sloan are in

recently com-

is considered to be one of

Thursday, April 23rd, will the first, second, and third
LOOK YOUR BEST ;
for ww
SAM SLOAN HITS

in OFF THE TEE
—_ —Photo By Blake
Tuxedoes, Dinner Jackets, mented. “We're very fortunate
. in having six men who can
: shoot so close together. This
Cummerbunds, & Shirts makes for a good ‘team. The
from overall squad «average is 74,
Al Rental which is very good for a team.”
SO, Hentals. Dr. Scott also stated that there
are no real low or real high
¢ shooters on the team, and that
Rash Wilson in, all the players are just about
; . alike. Consistency has played
Main Stieet Davidson, N. C. a great part in their success

this year.
