Hell Week
Oo

r
Greek Week?
(Page Two)

VOL. XLVI

ch

ye Hautdsontan

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1959

Phi Bete Recognizes Six Fo

Westervelt
Champ Again
(Page Three)

NO. 21

r Scholarship

_ The Davidson College chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, from Lakeland, Florida. Active in campus newspaper secretary of the Freshman Council and a member of ship trophy and serving as chaplain.
national fraternity honoring outstanding scholastic work, he is serving this year as associate editor of the Spanish Club, Business-Economics Club and Eumenean

achievement, has issued invitations for membership to
six students, five seniors and one junior.

Those recognized for Davidson’s top scholastic honor
were notified by mail after the local chapter made the
final selections Wednesday afternoon. The six students
have all accepted their membership bids.

The new Phi Beta Kappa members are:

CALDWELL
John Caldwell, a pre-medical major from Louisville,
Kentucky. Caldwell is editor of the college annual, Quips
and Cranks. He is secretary of the Publications Board
and treasurer of ODK in addition to membership in four
honorary fraternities and socictics.

Charles Chastain, philosophy and history major

11 ono
Class .’resident Votin

| Nominations Announced (Baggett, Warden To

?

ee

Davidson jexzmen wheop it up to the intonation of poet

The Haze Of Cave Counterpoint

DAVIDSONIAN.

RENFRO
John Renfro, an economics major from Spartan-
burg, South Carolina. Renfro holds the rank of Cadet Lt. North Carolina. Rudisill has been active in his social
Colonel in the Davidson ROTC Brigade. He has been fraternity, Pi Kappa Phi, winning the pledge scholar-

CALDWELL

ed

CHASTAIN

RENFRO

r Court Seats
e Next

Literary Society.
RUDISILL
Paul Rudisill, a psychology major from Hickory,

RUDISILL

STUART

WALTER

enema

Larry Walter, a chemistry and math major from
Calhoun, Georgia. Walter has been active in YMCA and
Westminster Fellowship work. He played baseball one
year.

STUART

Dabney Stuart, an English major from Richmond,
Virginia. The only junior recoginzed, Stuart has served
as secretary-treasurer and second vice-president of the
student body. This weck, he was elected to the new
Honor Court.

Thirteen seniors and Dr. D. Grier Martin, president
of Davidson College and a graduate of the class of 1932,
were invited for membership during the chapter’s fall
induction. They will be initiated with the six new mem-
bers at the annual spring banquet.

rilled;

“For Publication EditorsCompete In Run-Off

ry, beatnik and otherwise, in

“Cave Counterpoint,” the campus’s new poetry-jazz center. From left to right: Larry Bag-

gett, Tenney Deane, Sob Schoffner. (Photo By Rhyne)

Cultural Entertainment

Planned For The

Davidsonian Assignments Editor

For the past couple of weeks there have been strange goings-on taking place peita, is a pre-medical major
in the ping pong room of the College Union. These activities have been part of the in Alpha Epsilon Delta, a mem-
preparations being made to open Cave Counterpoint, Davidson’s answer to the Beat
Geheration. The grand opening of this unique student hideaway will be from 9:30

to 41:30 p-m. on Thursday, March 19.

Committee Announces
Scholarship Winners

The Winners of the 1959 Davidson Scholarship Com-
petition have been announced by the Scholarship Com-
mittee. Of the forty finalists who were on campus last
week, thirty-two have been named as recipients of the
various scholarship which the college offers each year
to outstanding prospective students.

The Davidson College Schol- fiam McDaniel, Rutherford-
arships, which replace the Ba- ton, North Carolina; Robert
ker Scholarships of past years, Miller, Chapel Hill, North
are being offered this year for Carolina; Charles Plaxico,
the first time. These scholar- Blecksburg, South Caroline.
ships offer a stipend amounting The winner of this year's
to as much as $1,500 per year, Procter & Gamble Scholarship
depending on financial need. is Wilson Wallace of Charlotte,
The recent daker Scholarships North Carolina.
were awarded through the col- The winners of the C. R.
lege with money given by the Harding Scholarships: are:
George F. Baker Trust of New paniel A. Carrell, Louisville,
York. The source of the new Kentucky; David Dillard, Abbe-
scholarship will be the David- vile, South Carolina; Jay Kirk,
son Endowment and the Gen- Clearwater, Florida;- Dudley
eral Operating Fund. Salley, Tarpon Springs, Florida;

The winners of the David. Fred Green, Leavenworth, Kan-

son College Scholarships are: 585.

John Day, St. Petersburg, Winners of the Curtis B.

Florida; Paul Duvall, Eest Johnson Scholarships are: Allan

Point, Georgie; Peter Gold, Charles, Duncan, South Caro-

Shelby, North Carolina; Mil- lina; Ken Kelley, Jacksonville,

fer Goss, Hendersonville, Florida; John McElfresh, Ft.

North Caroline; Joe Knight, Lauderdale, Florida; John

Norfolk, Virginia; Richard Webb, Oxford, North Carolina.

Hill, Sebring, Floride; Wil- (Continued On Page Four)

““Cave”’

The Publications Board
A. Currie, College Business

met in the office of Mr. R.
Manager, on Monday after-:

By CHARLES CHASTAIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Members of the 1959-60 Honor Court have been elected, with the exception

noon, March 9, and drew up a list of nominations for of one seat, which will be filled in run-off balloting Monday.

next year’s publication staffs.

| DAVIDSONIAN HEAD

Nominated for editor of the
DAVIDSONIAN for the year
1959-1960 were: Ed Armfield,
Jim Hamilton, and Dick Smith.

Ed Armfield, a member of
Kappa Sigma Fraternity from
Winston-Salem, N. C., is Man-
aging Editor for the DAVID-
SONIAN.

Jim Hamilton, a Chester, S.
C., member of Beta Theta Pi,
has written for the DAVIDSON-
IAN and the Wildcat Handbook
as sports and co-sports editor
respectively.

Dick Smith. an Alpha Tau
Omegan from Jacksonville,
Florida, is President of Sigma
Pi Sigma, national Physies hon-
or society, and Managing Editor
of the DAVIDSONIAN.

ANNUAL EDITOR

The nominations submitted
for Quins and Cranks editor
were Chris Bremer, John
Glenn, and Bob Jones.

Chris Bremer, a New Bern,
N. C., member of Phi. Gamma

_ber in Gamma Sigma Epsilon
‘for chemistry rdcognition and
Sigma Delta Psi, and butsiness
‘manager for Quips and Cranks.

The major attraction of Cave

Counterpoint will be the varied

cultural entertainment.
Poetry-jozz will be the
most novel item of the eve-
‘ning’s informal program.
This new art form, originat-

ing in the “beat cellars’ of |

San Francisco, has recently
attracted a great deal of stu-
dent interest. A number of
students have been enthusi-
astically experimenting with
this newcomer to American
culture.

At present, among the read-
ers are Laurens Walker, Jack
Lohman, Mickey Thrower, Jim
Hamilton, Ted Dingler, Dave
Robinson, Larry Smith, Tim
Ray, and Don Stowell. Comple-
menting the poetry readings
will be the modern jazz of Lar-
ry Baggett, Bob Shoffner, Ten-
ny Deane, Dave Hall, and Tom-
my Colvin. These musicians

John Glenn, a Beta Theta Pi
member of the male chorus
from Owensboro, Ky., has
served on both the DAVIDSON-
IAN and Quips and Cranks
, Staffs.

Bob Jones, a Sigma Alpha
Epsilon member from Rich-
mond, Va.. is Vice-president of
the male chorus and has
worked on the staff for Quips
and Cfanks.

SCRIPTS ‘N PRANKS

|

| The Scripts ’n Pranks nomi-

jmations for magazine editor
were Charles Cornwell and Ed

j Spivey.

Charles Cornwell, a _ Latti-
‘more, N. C., member of Alpha
Tau Omega, has membership in
Sigma Upsilon literary fraterni-
‘ty and Eumenean Literary So-
ciety and is an Assistant to the

will also perform a number of Editor for Scripts 'n Pranks.

modern jazz selections.

Perrin Wright will present
selections from the contemp-
orary classical field, play-
ing compositions by such
composers as Shostakovich,
Prokofiev end Bartok.

Besides student interest
there has been considerable
feculty enthusiasm with Dr.
Abernethy, Or. Bevan, Dr.
Goodykoontz, Dr. Trakas, Mr.
Satterfield, and Mr. Smith
voleing their epproval of the
project,

Ed Spivey, an honors student
in English from Mt. Gilead, N.
C., holds the office of Secre;
tary in Sigma Upsilon and is
an Assistant Editor of Scripts
‘n Pranks.

VOTING MARCH 24

These nominations were
based on recommendations by
the present publication editors

|

and will be voted on during
Chapel period on March 24.
1The terms of office will begin

for the newly clected staff of
the DAVIDSONIAN with the
April 10 issue of the paper. The| ©
staffs of Quips and Cranks andj
Scripts ‘n Pranks will fake
charge at the outset of the fall
semester,

In after-chapel voting Tues-
day morning, the senior class
elected John Huie, Bob Living-
ston, and Dabney Stuart, and
on Thursday they added George
Hart and Larry McNeill to the

In the news columns of
The DAVIDSONIAN on Feb-
ruary 27, April 21 was er-
roneously reported to be the
date of Dr. D. Grier Martin's
inauguration. The correct
date is the following day,
April 22. Classes will be sus-
pended on that day as re-
ported.

The DAVIDSONIAN | ex-
tends its apologies for this
error to all who may have
been inconvenienced by
planning for April 21 end
urges readers to make this
correction known to friends
of the college who read the
incorrect notice.

"sat across the long table

|

“Our first duties will be eval-
uating the election system and
working on the Court of Con-
trol.

“1 feel that we definitely
need a Court of Control, but
that it must be changed radi-
cally. The period might be
shortened and chenged to be-
gin functioning before rush
week. The appearance of the
culprits before the student
body in chapel may be eli-
minated and the freshman
regulations could stand re-
vising. -

Baroque Is Theme
[For Arts Festival

Robert W. Schlageter, Di-
.Tector of the Charlotte Mint
,Museum of Art, will speak
on “The Art of the Ba-
roque” at 8:15 p.m., Wed-
‘nesday, March 18, in the
Davidson College Union!
‘Ballroom.

Mr. Schlageter will illustrate
his talk with color slides. The
informal lecture is the second
jevent on the current 12th An-
inual ‘Fine Arts Festival’ ob-
‘servance on the Davidson cam-;
pus and is open to the public
free of charge.

The Davidson ‘Fine Arts
Festival’ is using the theme of
“The Baroque” this year, Cur-!
rent art exhibitions on view in-
clude one of reproductions,
prints and paintings of Baroque
art, a photographic display of
17th-Century Dutch paintings
and a special showing of arts
and crafts by World War II Ger-| craduated from Davidson in
man prisoners of war. 1928, going on to teach History

The latter exhibit is from the|at the Chamberland Hunt Mili-

private collection of Professor, tary Academy the next year.
George Crawford of the David-| At Harvard the following three

son College Physics Depart-' years, he did work toward his
ment. Mr. Crawford, following|Ph-D., before the Blue Ridge
the cessation of European School for Boys at Henderson-
hostilities in World War II, had ville obtained his services. Dr.
charge of administrative, su- Davidson then accepted a teach-
pervisory and disciplinary con- ing position in the History De-
trol of approximately 18,000, partment of The Citadel in
German prisoners located in Charleston.

Belgium and Holland. Many of Sitting in his swivel chair
the prisoners were artists or’ with his hands felded to his
craftsmen by trade, and it is! chin, Dr. Davidson went on
representative work from this! ¢o tefl that while et the Cita-
project on display. del he received his appoint-

He entered Davidson College
in 1924 — as he says, “where
else?.” Dr. Davidson, a native
of Chester, South Carolina,

Dee Green Calls For A
Much Shorter “Big Bluff

By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Sports Editor

Dee Green, president-elect of the student body,

{members in the College Union Wednesday afternoon and
voiced his positions on student body government.

In voting held on Tuesday and Thursday, members of the student body, vot-
ing by class, elected two rising sophomores, four rising juniors, and five rising
seniors as members of the new-Honor Court, which will take over all student ju-
dicial functions from the Student Council.

and Dave Warden. Verrault was
climinated, and the final sen-
ior seat will be filled Monday,
in a run-off between Baggett
and Warden. Voting will take
place in the first-floor lobby of
Chambers Building during cha-
pel period, and at Little, Watts,
Belk, Cannon, and.East dorms
between 1:15 and 2:15 in the
afternoon.

JUNIORS
The juniors elected Jerry
Cole, Ed Kizer, and Scott Lacy
in Tuesday's voting. In a Thurs
day run-off between Jim An-
‘derson and Wesley Weeks, An-
derson was chosen to complete
the junior representation.
| Harrison Wellford, who was
elected Tuesday, and David Gil-
mour, who defeated Graham
“It would still be a big bluff! Allison in the - Thursday run-
— but a shorter bluff.” off, will fill the sophomore
The topic shifted to the Hon- seats on the Court.

or Court. i After the final seat is filled,

“I feel the trial procedure ;
could be streamlined. This must the Honor Court will elect its

first be discussed in the Court, W" chairman, who must be a
but the Student Council would Senior, and a recorder, who may
have to. make the final move be from any of the three class-
in any change.

“| was surprised so many | After the Monday run-off be-
former student council mem- ‘tween Baggett and Warden, vot-
bers decided to run for the ing for. the presidents of the
court. However, | don’t think three classes will begin. Nomi-
it will make a great differ. nations werc submitted this
(Continued On Page Four) morning after chapel.

senior section of the Court.
RUN-OFF
The remaining seat was run
off this morning after chapel,
in a three-way race between
Larry Baggett. Joe Verrault,

from DAVIDSONIAN staff

Dr. Davidson: Devoted
Davidson Gentleman

By CHARLES ROSE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

(Editor’s Note: This is the second in a feature series on Davidson professors who have

had interesting, varied careers.)
Dr. Chalmers Gaston Davidson is Professor of History and Director of the Da

vidson College Library — officially. But as “Chalmers” he has become a never-de-
pleting source of college humor and a center of student interest.

became a part of the U. S. Navy
— just how, he still isn’t sure.
It seems that he applied for a
commission in the Navy short-
ly before his draft notice into
(Continued On Page Four)

ment as Professor of History
and Director of the College
Library at Davidson. At the
same time he received @
Rockefeller Scholarship in
Library Sciences at the Uni-
versity of Chicago. The fall
of 1936 was the first of some
twenty-odd fo follow that
Professor Davidson was to
spend at Davidson College

In the spring of 1937, he was
married to Miss Alice Graham
Gage, his second cousin once
removed. They have three chil-
dren to date. Robert, 19; Alice,
12; and Mary Gage, age 12
months. (Dr. Davidson made
note of the spacing of his off-
spring.)

In 1943 Professor Davidson

