PAGE FOUR

oto
ATO

BETA

if
Cerol Fitzpatrick Anne Cowan

mecomi

ng Quee

K PHI DELT

“Linden Spann Vicki Rumph

with with with with with
Al MacKay Ralph Asbury Marshall Ounewsy Eddy Richmond Bobby Davis
Pi KAPP
Tomorrow afternoon at half time one of the young
lovelies presented here will be crowned the first Home-
coming Queen of Davidson College.
Ann Hardy
with The thirteen girls featured here are representatives

SAE

Furman Ivey
with
Jack Rose

Sx

Helen Killian
with
Don Kitlien

Governor Hodges

(Continued from page, one)

ling match. The Governor ad-
mits, he wags too busy giving
out North Carolina cigarettes
to see much wrestling. but he
was shocked by the most fre-
quently asked question. “Why
do you want to make war on
us?”

Governor Hodges said it was
evident that people were told
not only what to believe but
what to buy. A candy bar might
cost a dollar and a book sixty
cents.

“anybody that can sell goods
without regard to cost, is go-
ing to cause a price war,” he
said. ‘

Returning again to the sub-.
.* With a quick hand shake

ject of education, the Governor
became nervously intent as he
‘explained the Russian system.
Talking about the colleges and
diniversities he said, “the stu-
dents are there because of am-
bition, not because papa want-
ed them to go. These colleges
stress languages, and we are so
far behind in this respect.”
Governor Hodges went on to
sound the importance of under-
standing the world in which

West Remarks On
1960 ROTC Band

Jerome Herring

|

of the twelve social fraternities and the independents.

Selection of the queen will be made tonight at the
formal dance in Johnston Gymnasium, but will not be
announced until tomorrow at the football game with
Wofford.

n (andidates

PH! GAM

. =...
Sandra Ridge Eleanor Bowden

Dave Gillis

Gregory wrane

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1959

Aged Oaks. Will Fall]
To Road Improvement

DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses

The houses of the following faculty members will
be open to students Sunday night, October 18, after
Vespers:

rHE

PIKA

Abernethy Hopkins Meetze -
Bernard Hummel Pietenpol The Davidson campus will have to sacrifice some
Coavaison Maroney Puckett twenty of its aged trees and thirteen feet of its land in
Fredericksen McLane Workman the next few months to the widening of Concord Road.
Goldiere Martin Stakes already appear in back of the new Dana science

building, the college church, and the library, outlining
the course of the new 44 foot wide thoroughfare.

vinced that the new street is
in the best considerations of
the town and it will bave the
support of the majority of the
citizens.”

Letfers...

[Continued from page one)
November 1, 1959

Mery Grimsley
with
Gaines Grantham

| The improvement will extend

from the intersection of Main

Dear Dairy, Street and Concord Road to
This has been the best weekend of my'life. I went|the city limits.”

|to a college dance with a third year college student. He

was in one of those fraternities that has parties which The initial plans for the wid-

:|would make our office shin-dig look like a Junior Prom. ening arose from an offer by

I didn’t meet any girls I knew, but I saw a lot of snotty|the North Carolina Highway

college ones that I didn’t. Commission to better the city

I was supposed to spend the night in one of the|street as a part of State High-

boys’ dormitories with the other girls, but we didn’t! ?°), NO. Torta eats

make it in. George was nice enough to drive me to work construction of minimum 44

the next morning. His family must be rich, because he} foot roads to include two 12

sure does get what he wants. foot lanes of traffic and park-
ing lanes of 10 feet on each

side,

with

WIDEN NO. 73
A combination of town and

state funds will cover the cost
of construction. A board of rep-
resentatives will accept bids for
the contract in the first week
of November. Town funds alone
will cover the re-landscaping of
renovated college property.

Carolyn Clark
with

November 2, 1959
The queen will be crowned by Dr. Martin, president

of the college.

4; Dear Jane,
Please excuse the notebook paper, but if I don’t do

something in this class I'll simply go crazy.
The competitors will be presented in the traditional

figure after the introduction of IFC members and their
dates. The judging will also take place at this time.
Judges for the occasion are Warren Covington, Dr.

r

Z beat Robbingville High (I was sponsor for the 4-H Club
President) afd then I thought things had just started.
|As I told you in my last letter Billy invited me to Da-

Alumni Install

Adherence to. this regulation (Continued from Page one)
inevitably calls for the razing;the “Committee of Ten”. Five

of some twenty of Davidson's of these committee members

Hy
)

This past weekend started off so good when we'gak trees. The parking lanes,!were selected by vote of for-

curbs," and gutters will entail mer presidents of the associa-
paving a total of thirteen feet sion and the remaining five |

of the southern end of the!
campus. members were chosen by cur-

Puckett, Colonel Adams, and John Trask.

The new addition of a queen into the Homecoming
festivities is another one of the inovations proposed by
the IFC toward a bigger and better Homecoming at Da-
vidson. Other surprises are also predicted for tomorrow's

game.

we live and work, He praised!

Davidson fot the Christian ln Prelimina

derstanding it offered and chal-
lenged the students to not be!
lazy.

New Fine Arts Center

“Let me emphasize that our sketch for the John R.

vidson College’s Homecoming.

Jane, I don’t know what’s happened to Billy. I'm DISTINCT REGRETS
sure you looked up to him as I did when he was Hi-Y| _ ra :
Baker han last year, but I just don’t know now. Billy has xpress dictinet negrete
drinks. All the boys in his club drink. Even a lot of|in the removal of the trees, but
the girls drank. , _|feels that some improvement

When he took me to the dance in the gym he was/is needed for the street. The
the old Billy. But then we went to a dirty old place by ony aaron Mon the sesure,
a river and Billy changed. He, the girls, and the colored|tion that the council is con-
boys in the band got down-right ugly, in both word
and deed. My parents wouldn't let those people ia our;
home. Billy drank so much beer that he fell asleep and
didn’t wake up, except for the one time when he got
sick.

I was looking forward to at least ending it pleasant-'
ly by renewing our spiritual friendship at the West-
minster Fellowship but. he said “Hell no, I might get!
sick again”. I might add that Billy isn’t bashful any.

Zena Strub
with
David Edwards

a

7

ry tages

"RECO,

HI-Fi COMONENTS

D™=sHOP

rent presidents of local alumni
chapters.

Dr. D. Grier Martin is treas-
turer of the Alumni Association
and John Horton is secretary.
These offices are not filled by
the annual mail balloting, but
by vote at the yearly meeting,
according to the Jaws of the
| association.

I T-TLE

Following the chapel service, Cunningham Fine Arts Center is only an initial prelimin-
the Governor. escorted by Pres-|ary one,” asserted Business Manager Robert A. Currie.
ident Martin, went to the Union|‘‘These first sketches were an attempt to have specific
for a brief refreshment—hand- information and plans to show to Mr. Dana when, he
shaking session with the stu-| came. There's a lot’of planning to be done from this

more .. . and that beautiful dress Mother made is in!
shreds. OOps . . here comes the teacher. NEVER GO
TO A COLLEGE DANCE.

Jenny

dents and faculty.

AT WHOLESALE NET PRICES
Across From Ivey’s 5th St. Entrance

126 West Fifth St. Phone ED 4-0936

‘Earmarked in his dress by
the constantly fresh carnation

point on.”
“The key to any arts build-

cluded, “is in “its saciiries |HUfford Moves Up

in his lapel, the Governor con-|ing,” added Curric, “is whether
fessed that on. his trip to Rus-|it facilitates both a Dramatic
sia he had an artificial one.|and a Recital Hall. Obviously a
“I had to,” he said laughlingly,|Proper music hall requires cer-
“everything is so artificial, ov-/tain features; and a dramatic
er there.” setting, others.
“Our greatest problem will
from President Martin, the Gov-|be to arrive at a plan which
ernor settled back in his limo-|Will combine these two into one
sine for the trip to Leaksville{auditorium.” This and the
with Mrs. Hodges. The pair acoustical problem will require
planned to vote in their home much revisiqgn on the present
town for the thirty-four million; Plans to arrive at a final draft.
dollar state. bond issue. Currie went on to explain
Wednesday tie (sovernor that the Dana Science Build-
played host to the President ‘of| ing went through a dozen or
the ‘newest nation in the world,| More such preliminary drafts
Negro Sekou Toure of the Afri-| before a final plan was ar-
can Republic of Guinea, in| rived at.
North: Catolina on the only{ The present preliminary
southern stop of his U.S. tour. |sketch of the Fine Arts Build-
On Saturday, Luther Hodges|ing did not include some of the
will head a sixty-five man trip|changes that might become
to Europe to sell North Caro-|necessary and did contain pro-

Friends Of College

made available for al! depart- Army's E ch el ons ;

ments of the school. .
“Although its main interest ¥
is in the fine arts, it ig in s Berle K. Hufford, Assistant
way an all-purpose building and|PMS&T of the Davidson ROTC
can be used for summer con- department, has been promoted
ferences or scholastic seminars|t© the rank of Lt. Colonel.
Hufford. a major for nearly
eight ‘and a half years, is be-

of the various departments of
ginning his second year as sec-

the school.”
As presented in these fenta-! ; .

tive plans, rooms. will be sct ond-in-command in the local or-

aside for sculpture, painting, a 84nization. -

music library, a band room, a’ Hufford explained: that the

chorus room. a mechanical, Order was effective Oct. 20.

room, music studios, and class; Zt wasn’t exactly a surprise,”

rooms for practical application.|"@ Said. “everyone knows just
—_—_—____.. | where he stands, but naturally

T was very happy When my turn
came around.”
The high point of Col. Huf-
Visit Here Nov 7 ford's military career was his
s ervice with the famous V Corps
Davidson is planning to hold|Attillery, the “Omaha Beach
its first annual Charlotte-Meck-|Corps.” Hufford moved with
lenburg Day. on Saturday. No- the corps . from Omaha Beach

Do You Think for Yourself ?

(THROW THESE QUESTIONS INTO THE POT AND SEE WHAT COOKS*)

P
vv

ce

- E 4 he
om = ’ ' . i
rf wd \ oe —~ ee
DP fa ~<A)
af

oo: “aN

. ier

Al

aX

BX

OAS) e ose 14

XD ay"
PAR Wako

a\/

ts

e
ar

lina to European Industry.

At Davidson, all seems fairly
four years the ROTC Band|calm in the Jull of the coming
has been increasing in size! dance weekend, but the some-
as well as quality,” stated: how jeering words of the Tar-
Professor Frank West,jheel Governor seem to still be
“and this year we have the | around-—"They have done their

“For the past three or

posals that may be unneces-
sary. “These sketches gave us
a location and a_ planning

jstart.” commented Currie.

“One definite advantage of
this building,” Currie con-

vember 7. The college will be/to the Elbe and then down to
host to guests from the two Pilsen, Czechoslovakia, during
areas, who will attend the foot-|World War IT.

ball game with William and] Hufford spent two years with
Mary scheduled for that after-|the historical division in Ger-
noon. many, working with former

If yoiir studies led you to believe you could strike oil by

largest band in our _his-;homework.”

tory.”
Professor West of the David-
son College Department of
Music’ looked toward the sharp-
ly formed ranks of the College

ROTC Band and smiled. “No, !
sir,” he said, “we still do not’ .o
have enough of the Army blue!

uniforms to go around.”

The Band this year will
march sixty-four cadets direct-
ed by Drum-major Miller Goss,
and commanded by Cadet Cap-
tain Perrin Wright.

Captain Wright commented,
“Because all band cadets did
not possess a complete blue

Y Book Successtul;

Hallett Smith Visit \Plans Begin Again

On College Agenda scorer nc'sencster Program

Dr. Hallett _D. Smith. Profes- , have already entered the. pre-
r of English and Chairman liminary planning stage, Tom-
of the Division of ‘Humanities my Colvin, chairman of the
at California Institute of Tech- committee, informed the DA-
nology, will visit Davidson on
November 5 and 6.

The national organization of

group will welcome any sug-
gestions concerning the bool:

Phi Beta Kappa, scholarship'to be used.
fraternity, is sponsoring Dr. The final choice of the book
Smith's visit. Dr. Smith is atwill be announced around

noted. authority on Elizabethan |Thanksgiving, Colvin reported.
and modern literature. He has|At that time, definite organiza-

uniform, we marched. in khakis;s¢erved on the faculty at Wil- ‘tional plans will be formulated
during the big event on Octo-'liams College in Massachusetts, for the second in this series of

ber 28.”

.and has held his present post|programs, initiated by the Y

The “big event" to which‘at California Tech since 1949. {this semester.

Wright referred was the dedi-'
cation of the new million dol- ous
lar Charlottetown Shopping was

Mall this past Wednesday.

“This was no minor event,” Poetry Society of America. He
joked Captain Wright. “It defi. studied under a Guggenheim

nitely added to our status.”
In addition to the part in the

Author of four books on vari-| “We were very pleased with
literary subjects, Smith|the interest shown in the pro-
awarded the Chapman gram last week, and we hope
Poetry Prize in 1952 by the even more interest will be ex-
hibited for future ones,” Col-
vin said.

Approximately 350 copies of

llowship in 1947-48.
The Status Seekers were sold.

Dr. Smith will be the fea-

fe

VIDSONIAN this week. The,

“There are many residents of |German officers.
the two areas who have always’
heard about Davidson, but have

drilling a hole right in the middle of the campus, would you
(A) keep still about it so people wouldn’t think you were

KANNAFPULIS’

_ EADING THEATRES nuts? sell stock in the proposition to all your frien
never actually visited the cam-' t GEM (C) ween oil man interested in the idea, even if you had
, bus. said Mr. Robert Sailstad, “ to give him most of the profits?
Assistant to the President. Today and Saturday
“This program is aspecially de-! “YELLOWSTONE
signed to acquaint them with KELLY” **A watched potnever boils” “eigare ith the ad
‘the campus and also re-acquaint! CLINT WALKER ‘means (A) tho man who the Cigarette baie the ot advanced
many old friends, who have not “KOOKIE” BYRNES made such a statement er design of them all . --« the one

cigarette with a thinking man’s filter and
a smoking man’s taste.

*If you checked (B) in tree Out of four of
these questions, you're a pretty smart cooky’

never watched a pot; (B)

if you don’t want the stew

to boil over—watch itt (C)|
you can't hurry things by
tworrying about them.,

In Technicolor
Sat. Nite —8:40-10:40
Mon. Tuves., & Wed.
“JET OVER THE

seen Davidson since the college
facilities have been expanded
in recent years.”

The college has issued spe-

|

cial invitations for the program ATLANTIC” ; ‘
in the form of “Charlotte- GEORGE RAFT 4080¢0 —but if you checked (C), you tink Sor,
Mecklenburg Day" folders. : VIRGINIA MAYO "yourself!

If you saw. a girl perched
up in a tree reading-a book,
would you say, (A) “Tim-
ber!” (B) “Is the light
better up there?” (C) “Wilt.
that branch hold two?”

ese folders outline the ac-|
tivities for the day, which be-|
gin with registration at 10:30.
Guests will have a special

; _SWANEE

Today and Saturday
“THE MUMMY”

pienic from 11:30-1:30 on the in Color
College Union Terrace. The col- Also ageoc
ee furnishing box lunches “CURE OF THE ‘0 Oeo
of $1.25 each, or guests may UNDEAD” Assuming cigarettes’ coi
: . , ould
bring their own meal. Bever-|} Sat. Late Show 10:30 tall, world oot listen to
ages will be provided for all “THE MAN (A) a filter cigarette that
those attending. WHO UNDERSTOOD talks only about its taste?
Special tickets for the game WOMEN” Genet tale shout fea

HENRY FONDA
LESLIE CARON

may be purchased for $1 by
advance mail reservation.

filter? (C) a filter cigarette
that lets its advaneed filter
Gesign and full taste speak,

dedication of the Charlottetown tured speaker at-an open meet-|However, no profit was made
Mall, the ROTC Band will make ing of Sigma: Upsilon literary on the program. A small loss
a major contribution to the. fraternity next Thursday night) was incurred which the YMCA
1959. Homecoming  activities.|at 8:30 p.m. in the Union Ball- will have to absorb.
During half-time the Band will/room. The fraternity invites all; Colvin .said the committee
present colorful formations and interested students and faculty found Vance Packard, author
precision marching, as well as}members to attend. of the nation’s best seller, eager
playing throughout the ball. While at Davidson, Dr. Smith to do everything possible to
game. is scheduled to address the Hu- help with the success of the
Among the other activities in;manities 13 class and several/program. Favorable comments
which the Band will participate other English classés. He hasj;were received on his television
will be the Christmas Parade in’! been asked to speak in chapel|/appearance. The Y was par-

tn Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

for themselves?

anseoco

Next time you light up, take a moment to
think about what you really want in your’
filter cigarette. Most men and women who
think for themselves choose VICEROY,

Familler pack ,
or crush-proof box.

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows —

, Kannapolis, N. C. This is an
affair in which the Band takes
part annually.

land to attend a meeting of the|ticularly pleased with Pack-

college’s Curriculum Commit-|ard’s informal ‘talks with class-
tee. es.

ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

©1050, Brown & Willlamaon Tovscen Carp,

1318 W. Morehead Charlette, N. C.

