FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1959 THE DAVIDSONIAN

cop Champs Defend

a _)

SIDELINES ILOo

(an)

- | @
THE FRESHMAN ELIGIBILITY CHALLENGE
Last spring’s Southern Conference ruling that fresh-
men would not be eligible for varsity sports was met] | J ;
with mingled distaste and scepticism in the Davidson on < “ s
athletic department. Criticisms of the action were strong: _— ~
“A small school with a limited athletic budget like
yoours is going to have trouble competing with larger
“"-chools having more liberal subsidization policies.”
“Hiring new coaches and buying more equipment
vill take a big cut out of our athletic funds.”
“It will not only hurt football, it will be harmful
to all sports at Davidson.”
" The athletic department has adjusted to the new
situation in the only way possible—it has done almost
nothing at all. Only one new coach, Joe Hunt, was hired

wr
, By PETE WYRICK
On Sunday morning the Davidson golf team leaves

where they will practice that afternoon.

_ On Monday, they will the Greenbriar Invitational
' ” journey to Washington and ar- Tournament the team finished
My. rive in time for a practice in second place behind Ohio

round at 1:00 p.m. on the links University.
at the Woodmont Country Club, .
the site of this year's tourney.

vied that day and the final

meda! play, with each team

PAGE THREE

Title

ON OPORTO} ‘Cat Golfers Compste May 5, 6.

for Orange, Va., enroute to

the Southern Conference Golf Tournament which is to be held in Washington, D. C.,

y } ‘ this Tuesday and Wednesday. The team will stay at Woodbury Forest School Sunday

Monday afternoon they closed
out the regular season in a
match won by Wake Forest by
a score of 20% to 6%.

p recamement ply will open Netters Take On
-- fe eer warmanday. ae fourne Tourney Rivals

f
for the specific purpose of coaching a freshman sport, . ee tent he scores of as By BILL GODWIN
and he doubles as assistant basketball coach. - 1958 Golf Team: Verner Stanley, Tom Johnson, Sam Sloan (Co-Capt.), Coach Tom Scott, vidson contingency will con: Davidson's tennis sextet shellacked V. M. I. 9-0
Wherever possible coaches have doubled up on their Bucky Dennis (Co-Capt.) Sut Alexander, Gary Heeseman. sist of Bucky Dennis, who here Friday in preparation for Southern Conference
: ; was medalist last year, Ver. » rourney play next weekend in Norfolk, Virginia.

jobs. Tom Stevens worked with the freshman football

: oe ta gs P] | | ner Stanley, Sam Sloan, Sut William and Mary and Navy
a Oe eee _as the varsity Tine coach spend vu ‘ | n R i S Alexander, Gary Heeseman, iwi “co-sponsor the tournament

’ ’ ; an om Johnson. 0 a @ Norio! ava
time with the struggling frosh squad. George Tucker a s Hf | | Base May 7, 8. and 9.

: ‘ : ; ‘a aes : Davidson and George Wash- G.W. TO D
rvin wv. OMINATE
instructed both swimming teams in addition to serving By cK SROWNLEE

as assistant football coach and freshman track mentor . a ington are defending champ: wre whole tourney will be
i , : The Davidson track team entered the High Point Relays today with “a good ions, but G.W. lost several men’ aon inated by George Washing-

In tennis and golf, however, the “doubling up” so- reehtatys F h Whittle. Oth tries included Wash- last year and will not be as
: . : , P f winning” according to Coach Heath Whittle. Other entries included Wa ton,” said Coach Dick McKee.
lution is almost impossible. These are two sports in talon and Lee. High Point, East Carolina, Elon, Guilford, Catawba, Lenoir-Rhyne, strong a threat this year. Coach “They. have enn twiee
which a great deal of individual attention must be given| Pfeiffer, Pembroke, and Presbyterian. Seott expects the teams from 4) ;, year, 81 and 6.3."

ic ; : . The 'Cats had little difficul- jumped 21° 971”, his best effort Furman, The Citadel. V.P.I, , : .
to each player. Coach Dick McKee has neither time nor} ye; Armstrong, Marvin Bent- ty in a 90-41 shellacking of the of the season. Ed Kizer ran a'and William and Mary to be _ &-W. will be going for its

space to devote equal attention to both the varsity and ley, and Ed Kizer should “the University of Richmond last 51:2, 440 and the Davidson: the strongest contenders for fourth praient conference
freshman tennis squads. For this reason the frosh tennis prise the Big Three for the Friday; McBryde turned in a relay team turned the mile run this year's title, but hastened © ampions ip. “They have a
team is almost nonexistent. Wildcats as they team with 14) 6 ite won the 880, and in 3:30.3. The ‘Cats picked up to add that the Wildcat squad "CW boy. Ken Garrison. He out.

_ * in in the 440 relay : weer so fini swatted our ace, Dick Hodet at

At present, not much can be done. Until more money and with enobert Beebe in the took second in the javelin for ten first places. leu alse finish hag top. At No. 6 carlier this season,”
; if ch j 4 13 points. i i i ' as ° . . ,
is granted the athletic budget, freshman teams will have] gap relay. Kizer, Beebe, Chet ‘* P Coach Whittle is planning to perienced a particularly good Coach McKee said.

to stick with overworked coaches and worn out uni-| Alexander, and Brownie Thur- John Huie bighjomped six take about ia men fo the Sow séason this spring, anything can’ The ‘Cats, with a completed
forms. The money is a long way off and it might not|man should turn: in an exeel- fect for the firs lit broad jiamsbure on May 8th and 9th, happen in the tournament and: S€2S°n’s record of eight wins
. ven get here. lent mile relay time. and Mike Laughlin broad Tamsbure on Bay Se ane **: scott fecls that his goliers have (including three shut outs)

. . 8 deem ett IcBryde’s mule time | the ability to win. against five losses, “will be in

A Looking back. over this transition year, we see that, m ae we i, i ‘ding factor in a y the finals anyhow," MeKee said

in spite of obstacles, the Freshman sports program has|\¥°" aictance relay. Others en- 1 eE , S e as te One of the favored con: We're the best besides CW.”
come out pretty well. The frosh swimmers plowed over|toreq in the event are: Thur: J : individual honors CITADEL RATES 3RD

will probably be Haywood

‘just about everything in sight, making a conference|man. 440; Dan McAllister, 880; : Sullivan of Furman who has... D*%itlson’s tennis coach rated
championship for next year seem not too unlikely. and Bob Thompson, %4 mile.| ead L-F Softball been shooting consistently The Citadel as third. The Wild.
David Gilmour and Mack Brownlee led a fine cross-|MeBryde also teams with Beebe, L sub;par golf this season. fi, Butidons this cea ee

° Bentley, and Armstrong in the Denni Af oe
ry sdu o a 5-1 season, and the frosh track team| ~.. ennis will be defending . .
country squad t : sprint relay. . By TOM RAIFORD his medalist position, but all, 4, ¥° C2" fake matches in
the No. 1 and 2 pasitions, we

has just finished an undefeated season. The scheduled ficld events, . — - y :
one of ihe best all around freshman basketball|are the same as for a regular! The Beta and Phi Delt softball squads posted identi of his teammates have been cowld go all the way," Coach
teams in several years should help fill the gaps left by|mect. John Iuie and Henry: Cal 8-1 records this weck to head the I-F diamond race. one of them could cee ant NeKee said. “We're almost sure
‘ ion of f ; ; i Pharr are the pole vault en- On Monday this week tho KA’s, the Betas defeat the one oF them could cop the (7 iit from No. 4 on
the graduation of. four first string varsity players. ltries with Huie going it alone Kappa Sigs defeated the Sigma Kappa Sigs, the Phi Oelts  ¢fown. down.”
Although the frosh football squad compiled only a], . the high jump. Hugh Mur- Nus, while the hard hitting Phi stem the Sigma Chis, and the — In regular season aetion. the Finley Lée, Doug Orr and
mediocre record, a number of freshmen were standout|,ay and Laughlin ate entéred Delts dropped the ATO’s. The Pi Kapps take the Indepen- Wildcats recorded one vietory, Dick Medet play in the 4th, 5th

performers on the varsity (freshmen were not ineligible] in. the broad jump. Betas belted the SPE's. ange denis omer games sched- two tics, and five defeats. In and Gth positions, respectively,
i ; eason). Dave Warden is listed with Phi Gams slipped by the KA’s. uled for Tuesday afternoon | ——-——-___________._ pans
ror fot ae ater the 1988 a5 0m dson has met/Charlie Rutherford in the dis. The SAE nine won over the Pi were called because of rain. ‘WILLIAM & MARY, WG&L
all Tauness, Wi . . cus and with Paul Biggers in Kapps, and the Sigma Chis ‘The Betas kept up their wine s s s

the freshman eligibility problem with unexpected suc- the shot. Stu Nickles, McBryde, downed the Independents. ning streak on Wednesday by

cess. Whether or not the ruling will severely hurt foot-|anq jennings Snider round out. Tuesday afternoon saw the whipping the Sigma Nus 27-14:

ball and other svorts has yet to be seen. the action in the javelin. ! Phi Gams drop the Pi- the ATO’s downed the PiKA‘s'
«dS; the Kappa Sigs eased by |

the SAE's 15-14; the Sigma Chis

| Kapps.

Hodel leads his teammates with
cight wins and five tosses.

In the V.M.L. romp last Fri-
day, ‘Cat netters were forced
to play ‘three sets only once.
Switching to the No. 4 slot,
Dick Hodel went the limit be-
fore notching a Davidson win.
The final score, 9-0, verified
Coach McKee’s statement: “It
was no contest. really.”

McKEE COMPARES

With regular scason play
completed, Coach McKee com-
pared his current team + with
last year’s sextet. “There's not
too much difference,” he said.
“I thought. we'd improve a lit-
tle at least, especially since
Finley Lee transferred from
G.W. to give us extra strength
at No. 5. But here’ we are with
an 85 record. playing second-
fiddic tn George Washington
for the third straight year.”

The final scores of last year's
Southern Conference net
tourney showed Davidson trail-
ing George Washington 21 to
36. Host William and Mary
nudged the Wildeafs for run-
ner-up with 19 points.

In finalist matches departee
‘Dave Pearsall and Doug Orr
copped a doubles victory from
the Colonials as Davidson lost
out 6 to 3.-:

Host

copped a win over the KA’s' c_ |
O 6-1; the SPE's edged the inde al ine ve W
. pendents 5:4; and the Phi Delts! r ee en
They Said it couldn't : ; -were victorious over the Pil °

By JIM PRESSLY

tin the I-F tennis tourna-
ment Gwathmey (Beta) de-

oe be done...
They said nobody
could do it... but —

quarter-finals. Ned Gwathmey William and Mary on Monday furnish. the opposiiion.
meets Newt Burns (Ind.) in Dave MeCullough and Fred- LOSE 9-5 DECISION
the semi-finals, and the win- «dic Pharr may tackle their first In the first game of the re-
ner matches his ski against pilching assignments, as Coach cent V.P.T. doubte- header the
tough Hight Redmond (KA) Stevens plans to use ‘his entire Wildcats lost a 9-3 decision. The
in the finals. staff. visitors scored two runs in the
. - — _ first inning on a watk, fielder’s
PEs choice, and a home run by Dick
Snead. They added three more
_,funs in the second:

After this. shaky start, pitch-
er Dee Green blanked the
visitors until the ninth inning.
‘In the last frame they pushed
acruss five runs to take the
victory. Dayidson's big inning
was the fifth. The Wildeats

: boos
CORE’? 16 A RERIETEREO TRADE-WARN, COPTRIOHT © t900 rue coca-coua commany

Abracadabra ,

Foolish boy—the best way to make a bottle
of Coke disappear is to drink it! Yes,
swallow after swallow, that cold crisp taste is
go deeply satisfying... and the lively lift
is so bright and cheerful the whole day
seems happier, just like magic. So open

aR

scored three runs, with Grcen’s
triple the big blow.

V.P.1. TAKES 2ND .

: “IM is kindest to your taste,” says James Amess. “There are two
good reasons why I know you'll like ’em. They're truly Iow in tar, with

f , more exciting taste than you'll find in any other cigarette.” sesame! Just uneap ‘the bottle and set
. , Teady for fhe Paus V.P.1. took the second game
_ LOW TAR: L'M’s patented filtering process adds extra filter fibers electro- | BE REALLY REFRESHED...HAVE A COKE! 7.2. Pat Henderson started for

Davidson and was relieved in

statically, crosswise to the stream of smoke . . . makes EM truly low in tar.
‘the second by Dee Lide. Swaim

MORE TASTE: EM’s rich mixture of slow burning tobaccos brings you more Botiled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by nitehed the final inning. The
} exciting taste than any other cigarette. big man for the double-header

hits, including a home run and

LE MODERN...CHANGE TO MODERN IM obo” ne ropistered wrodemerk, IH. THECOEA-R9LA COMPANY ifiple. Green's triple was Da-

\ THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD Was Snead of V.P.1. with three

Coach Tom Stevens’ baseballers, sporting a 2-13 season’s record, will play two
feated Cory (SAE) in the double-headers in Virginia over the weekend. Washington and Lee tomorrow and

‘vidson's only : extra hase blow.

On Tuesday at Greenville,
the ‘Cats lost a 1-0 deciston. to
Furman. Both teims were
hampered because of almost no
pre-game hitting practice. Fur-
man’s only run was unearned.
With one out pitcher Green
walked two men and bit anoth-
er to fill the bases. The next
batter grounded to Green, who
threw out the runner attempt-
ing lo score.

HITS RUNNER

Trying for a double play,

Catcher Reagan hit the runner

t

Russell Cotton, Cat third baseman, takes his cuts in the
batting cage. Cotton, along with pitcher-outfielder Dee Green,
is the team’s leading hitter, batting at a 300-plus pace.

(Photo by Rose)
going to first in the back. The
ball bounced away and the man
previously on second scored.
Davidson was leading 1-0 in
the second game when it was
rained out.

In recent Frosh activity the
Wildkittens exchanged wins
with P.J.C. Davidson won at
P.J.C. by a 6-1 score with Jerry
Shelton going the route. At
home on Monday the Freshmen
lost 10-6.

