PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1960

Dave Alabran, president of
the Methodist Youth Fellowship,
announced earlier this week
that the group has not, as yet,
formulated any definite plans
for special activities. He did,
however, express a desire to
meet with MYF groups from
other nearby campuses for
weekend fellowships.

Alabran stated that the Dav-
idson group intends to get to-

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for
students after vespers this Sunday night:

3ryan Mebane Sailstad
Calhoun Pinkerton Thies
Fulcher Polley Thompson
Galfent Reid Tyson
Hampton Richey West
McGill r

gether with MYF groups from|

fete. for discussion and fellow- |
iship, and to exchange ideas.
| MYF meets every Friday at
15:30 p.m. at the Methodist!
Church on Main St, for supper |
and an informal, discussion-
type. program. Programs will

with several of the professors.

One of the outstanding pro-
grams of the year, so far, was
the showing of the film “From

- Here to Eternity,” followed by
MRS. H. F. DAVIS, new housemother for the Sigma Nus, spoons a discussion with Dr. P. F.
out a cottage cheese salad. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells) Elliot and Dr. M. E. Polley.
The Fellowship has scheduled

Ischools like Catawba, Queens, |

Sailstad Unveils Test Model

Of Arts Building Theater

Mr. Robert J. Sailstad, assistant to the president, un-

include movies and discussions | yejjed a model of the theater of the new John R. Cun-|

ningham Music and Fine Arts Building this past Wednes-
day during chapel period. The model will be used by the
architect to test ideas and to help solve production prob-
lems of the new hall. :

MOVABLE CURTAINS
The hall will have movable

In a talk following the un-
veiling, Sailstad said that the
purpose of the small auditor-

Nevertheless, we do like love
affairs, but I've found that
most of us will take life very
| seriously.

Whenever an American boy
goes to Argentina, if he
wants a “blind date’ he has
to double-date. The other guy
| is responsible for the Ameri-
can boy’s behavior — unless
the girl wants to take care of

"4B." Cast

j
(Continued From Page One)

By BERT KAMM
Richardson Scholar

I have heard that Latin Americans seem to be more
| other places. This is not true, fo

herself, which sometimes oc-
curs.

I know this for sure because
I'm related in a certain way to
most of the American boys and
girls that come to Cordoba, my
hometown. I'm a square dance
instructor in our city, and it is
Strange how they happen to
drop in on our practices and re-
hearsals and like them.

That is an easy way to get a
date because he can take a look
at the dozens of girls there and
pick up the nicest one. That is,
if she hasn’t gotten an owner
for the night!

Our dates, most of the time,

curtains at both ends so that between heaven and earth. ‘The |

Kills “Latin Lover’’

Editor's Note: This is the fifth in a series of articles written by the Richardson Scholars on
customs and characteristics of their homelands, or on their impressions of Davidson.

passionate than people from

r we find shy boys and cold girls everywhere.

I haven't dated very much
since I came up here because
money is not always available
in one’s pocket. That must be
one of the reasons why foreign
students date so little here.

Anyway, I do like your girls
and I do like to dance, so why
don’t I have a date for Home-
coming?

‘Exam Date Set For
Graduate Records

|

| The Graduate Record Exam-
|inations will be given Novem-
ber 19, to seniors desiring to

a a movie, “Harvey,” for next|ium-theater (around 300 seats) 11. acoustics may be varied. Vagabonds will represent heav-| consist of going to the movies| ;
»ek’ ting als will be to recapture some of iohei , j i — a See 206 t-
week's meeting also. | dius cadiiean “bg aR Indirect lighting over the seats €" by a platform, and they hope or the theater, listening to ®/minded that most graduate
Alabran said that much of the intimate atmosphere lost in Jin jo provided by inverted|t® capture the circus tent at-|concert—or just dancing.

|schools require that the GRE
be taken by students before
they may be considered for ad-
mission.

Applications, which may be
obtained in Dr. Abernethy’s of-
fice, must be filled out and re-

the credit for organization of the theater of today. Produc-
the Davidson MYF goes to the tions such as the plays the Vag-
Rev, Mr. Russell Montfort of | abonds are now doing, lectures,
the Methodist Church in David-|4nd concerts aimed at the small

Montfort actively engages | appreciative audience will be
staged here.

pyramid-shaped. lights hanging) ™osphere through which Mac-

from the ceiling. Leish represented earth by stag-
The most unique feature of ing “J.B.” in Chambers’ dome.

the auditorium will be its un-|“The dome will be draped to

conventional stage set-up. The|!ook very much like a circus

stage, occupying all of one end tent,” Epes commented.

of the auditiorium, will be one |

We also have very beautiful
landscapes all over the coun-
try, but | doubt that a boy
will be allowed to go there on
his “blind date,’ for “the
baby has to be in at 7.”

| son.

By GEORGE HARRINGTON lin planning and activities,
Davidsonian Feature Writer | Members of various faiths,

including some of the foreign
students, attend the mreetings.
Alabran stated that MYF is not
an evangelistic organization,
rather the purpose is to pro-
vide fellowship and to stimulate
thought on contemporary is-|
sues. Alabran emphasized that

“T love it here,”’ said Mrs. Davis, one of the new fra-
ternity housemothers who has come to Davidson this
year. This reply is typical of the three new housemothers,
Mrs. H. F. Davis, Mrs. Elizabeth Wright, and Mrs. A. R.
Edwards, who have come to live on the Davidson campus.

where, including Arlington, Vir-
ginia, and the University of

Mrs. Davis, the new house-
mother for Sigma Nu, formerly

lived in Charlotte, where she Maryland. While at the Univer- all students are welcome.
graduated from Queens Col- sity of Maryland Mrs. Wright Thé officers for this year’s |
lege. Although Mrs. Davis has was the housemother for the| group are: Dave Alabran, Pres-|
no relatives in Sigma Nu, she Sigma Chi's lident; Tom Covington, Vice-
says that this has not been de- Commenting on the boys at|President; and Dudley Salley,
trimental to learning about the the university as compared Secretary-Treasurer. These of-|
fraternity or enjoying the boys with Davidson students, Mrs.|ficers were elected last spring, |
in it Wright said, “I like Davidson|and will serve for the 1960-61
When asked about her hob- because the quality of the boys | term
bies, Mrs. Davis replied, “I here is so much greater than
love’ to play bridge,’ gut that of the boys at state uni- js Mrs: A. R. Edwards. from
bridge is not her only hobby. versity.’ Charlotte, who is living at the
Mrs. Davis also’ enjoys yard Mrs. Wright has several hob- Sigma Phi Epsilon house. Al
work and gardening. and when bies. including that very com- though Mrs ‘Pdwards has no
sh r gu 2 ridge. Her most im: relatives who are Sig Eps, and
Mr Davis k C ‘ | ! though, is antique has 1 had any previous ex
In. summing up her feelings Necting and furniture refin- perience asa housemother
D son and her fraternit irs, Wright occasional: she dos t feel t this has
A Davi D cook Ane 1 handicapped ‘her in anv way
’ ry muet : i $ One of Mrs. Edwards favor
friendly, and I have. the Aithough she has: no rela hobbies is playing bridge
nicest boys I Delta Theta, Mrs... She | enjoys* doi volun
Another - new housemother, Wright es not let this bother teer hospital work. But, as she
Mrs. Elizabeth Wright Phi he My Phi Delta Theta’s. are sums up, “‘Accumulating fifty
Delta Theta, is a former resi- just - young gentlemen,” she boys has been most gratifying
dent of Dunn, North Carolina, said and I enjoy being here as a
although she has lived else- The next new housemother housemother very much.”

ae

of the largest stages existing
for an auditorium of this size.
It will have a giant curtain

Dr. Sherrard Rice
Conducts Vespers in front, completely blocking
out that end of thé hall. Both

Speaking at the regular ves-/the small top and the main bot-
pers service in the College tom parts can be drawn com:
Church Sunday night will be| pletely back into the wall re-
Dr. J. Sherrard Rice. As a con-/cesses to utilize the

entire |

| The. Vagabonds will probably
|present at least eight more
plays including “J.B.”, “Me-
dea”, and “The Matchmaker”.
)At each of the future plays
| there will be reserved seats by
| subscription.

The Vagabonds announced
this week that persons inter-

That's what the father usual-
ly says, but the mother is
proud her child is going out
with a student from abroad and
complains about it to her hus-
band.

So when they finish discuss-
ing about--the time to come

turned to the Educational Test-
ing Service in Princeton, New
Jersey, before November 4.

On November 5, Davidson
will be one of four test centers
in North Carolina administer-
ing the American College Test-
ing examination for high school
|juniors and seniors.

back home, the couple has cer-} pj, test, which has taken

clusion of the separate services| width and height of the stage.

in Chambers Auditorium, the
freshmen will hear the Rev.
William R. Clein.

Dr. Rice graduated from Dav-
idson in 1939. After remaining
here as Secretary of the Y.M.
C.A, for a year, he went to
Princeton Seminary.

Dr. Rice served Navy
Chaplain during the war, after
Which he taught at Union Semi-
nary Richmond Va Since
teaching, he has served churches
in. W. Va. and Texas

Upon his graduation from
Davidson in 1951, Rev. William
went to Union Semi
Richmond

In. addit to his duties as

ster of the Oakland Ave.
Presbyterian Church in Rock
Hill, S..C., Rev. Clein holds the
position Chaplain to the
Presbyterian students at Win-
throp College, in Rock Hill.

as a

R. Clein
Hae iry im

1en

of

| ested in subscriptions can cali
the desk at the - Student
Union. Subscriptions will be
$2.00 for students, $3.00 for
single patrons and $5.00 for

tainly left and comes back at
any ‘time.

REHEARSAL CLASSROOM

Separated by sliding wooden |
panels from the stage will be a

We have a good custom that
eur girls think according to

large classroom, for rehears-| couples. the “American Way of Pay-
ing while the auditorium is be- ‘ : ; ment,” which means they pay

; ; “We need some financial :

ng used. The rehearsals ir : | ba
ing usec e earsals in backing to carry on the pro-| for themselves when dating.

That is an advantage. Some-
times they also pay for for-
eign students.

this room will take place on
the unusual stage wagon. The
idea of haying a stage wagon

gram that the Vagabonds would |
like to present to the Davidson
community,” Epes continued.

|the place of the College oBard
jentrance examination in some

States, gives an evaluation of a
jstudent’s. ability in English,
}math, social studies, and the
natural sciences.

Scores made on. these tests
are sent to colleges and are
used for selection and _place-
ment of students.

was brought to the attention of ; : s
“We feel that subscribers will

the planners by Ervin Duggan!

who referred them to the only , , ‘ A ,
laving reservec S@a a re

one presently in existance, at : ; —
future Vagabonds perform-

Wellesley College in Massachu oe ’
ance

also benefit from this plan’ by

AT

setts

This ingenious “stage -
wheels” will have its own com
plete lighting system and will!
be movable to provide great
flexibility in sets. When being
used, the curtains will be set
in such a fashion so as to make |
the wagon stage a part of the

on

Subscriptions for Vaga-
bonds performances are avail-
able at the Student Union
Desk. Subscriptions are $2.00
for Davidson students, $3.00
for single patrons, and $5.00
for couples.

THE

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

THE

BEST

main stage.

HUGHES MASTERS FELLOWSHIPS. The Hughes Masters Fel-
lowship Program offers unusual opportunities for education leading
to a master's degree... and, in addition, provides each fellow, with
practical experience in the professional field of his choice.

Approximately fifty new awards will be made in 1961 to qualified
applicants possessing a bachelor’s degree in science or engineering.

A selected group of award winners will be offered a FULL STUDY
PROGRAM. Participants in this program will receive fellowships that
permit them to attend an outstanding university on a full time basis
during the regular academic year with a substantia! stipend.

Other award winners will be assigned to the WORK STUDY PROGRAM
and will attend a university sufficiently near a facility of the Hughes
Aircraft Company to permit them to obtain practical experience, in
a professional field of their choice, by working at the company half
time. An appropriate stipend will also be awarded.

After completion of the Master's Program, fellows are eligible to
apply for HUGHES DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS

HOWARD HUGHES DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS. If you are in:
terested in studies leading to a doctor's degree in physics or engi-
neering, you are invited to apply for one of the several new awards
in 1961 on the Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowship Program.

This unique program offers the doctoral candidate the optimum
combination of high-level study at an outstanding institution plus
practical industrial experience in the Hughes laboratories.

Each Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowship provides approximately
$8,000 annually. Of this amount approximately $1,800 is for tuition,
thesis and research expenses, other academic fees and books. The
remaining amount is the award of a cash stipend and salary earned
by the fellow. :

Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowships are open to outstanding stu-
dents qualified for admission to graduate standing. A master's de-
gree, or equivalent graduate work is essential before beginning the

Fellowship Program. cecal tienen the: ae

For both programs, typical areas of research and development to
which fellows may be assigned while working for Hughes include:
weapons control systems, infrared search and track systems,
advanced propulsion systems...parametric amplifiers, masers,
lasers, microwave tubes and devices, electron-tube and solid-state
displays, semiconductor materials, antenna arrays, aerospace ve-
hicles...plasma electronics; solid state, atomic, nuclear and aero-
space physics; propagation, mechanics of structures, chemistry
and metailurgy...systems analysis, human factors analysis, net-
work analysis and synthesis... microminiaturization, communica
tions, data processing, information theory, simulation.

The classified nature of work at Hughes makes American citizenship
and eligibility for security clearance a requirement.

Closing date for applications: January 15, 1961.

How to apply: To apply for either the Howard Hughes Doctoral
Fellowships or the Hughes Masters Fellowships write Dr. C. N. War-
field, Educational Relations, Hughes Aircraft Company, Culver City,
California.

Creating a new world with ELECTRONICS

— a ee ee ee

HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY

Hughes a

Fellows

Pro

hip

rn 4 OR,

rams.

-

aa

&

