FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1960

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALOOK AT...

SPORTS

By Bill Godwin

Don’t Count ‘Em Out

TOMORROW night's basketball opponent—Wake Forest
—has been rated as high as 11th nationally in pre-sea-
son polls, but Davidson Coach Lefty Driesell isn’t con-
ceding anything. And, since it’s his first college coach-
ing season, that sort of puts him on the spot. The decid-
ing factor could be student support. Home team cheering
is especially effective in basketball, where fans can almost
reach out and touch the court.

WE REGRET that Paul Marrotte has resigned as
soccer coach. His 1960 team had the best record in soc
cer’s five-year history here. President Martin will name
his successor.

INTRAMURAL basketball gets underway Monday at
7 p.m. IMAC heard a protest by the Phi Delts Wednesday
on the eligibility of an SAE participant in the swimming
meet. IMAC upheld the protest and is working to re- |
arrange the order of teams in the meet. The SAE’s were
second before the protest.

Scott Comments On Speech

WE ASKED Dr. Tom Scott, Davidson athletic direc
tor, to comment on a speech made by Dr. Theodore A.
Distler Nov.’ 11 before Davidson’s Board of Visitors. |
THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER reported the speech the
next day. Dr. Scott says:

It is very difficult to comment upon a newspaper .article as
the report may be out context
ed statement that intercollegias

I will comment upon the report
football should be abolished in

favor of some carry over activities such as bowling, archery

and soit: “House and Scott Lacy were
Most educators agree that intercollegiate athletics are not| @leeted co-captains after the

an end in themselves and cannot be justified in an educational | game,

institution unless there is a good physical education and in a :

tramural program. for all students also. At Davidson, for ex The ‘sovcer team finished’ a

ample, 58°% of our student body is enroiled in an excellent fine 83 season by trouncing

physical education program where each student has the op- VMI,. 4-1 Joe Kelley banged

portunity to learn the skills and rules of thirteen different. in three goals and was elected

sports, most of which will earry over into later life captain for next year, while

572 Participants Mike Laughlin finished a -bril

, liant career.

So far this year 572 students have participated in intramural
flickerball, wrestling and tennis and many additional ones will
compete voluntarily in basketball. volleyball, softball, handball,

season

i VPI,

Fall Was
Fruitful
For ’Cats

The fall sports scene came to
at
prior to the Thanksgiving holi-

a close Davidson College!
days as the football, soccer, and
cross-country teams completed |
This fall's)
highly sue-
cessful for Red and Black par-|
the

combined

their schedules.

sports action was

ticipants, as three teams’

records gave David-'
son an 18-10 won-lost edge over
tough opposition !

The came on |
strong to give Coach Bill Dole
and fans a highly satisfying 3-5)

The highlight of the |
was the 9-7 of |

which school . spir-

football team

record
upset
after
it-was at its highest

The s®ason ended with a
heartbreaking loss to Furman,
who nipped the ‘Cats, 22-21,
with a two-touchdown rally in

the last five minutes. Danny

But there was bad news for
soccer followers upon learn-

track, and tennis. During the year an estimated 85°. of the ing that Coach Paul Marrotte
student body will participate in the intramural program. had resigned to devote more
In our intercollegiae program. 38°; {the national average of _ time to history.
s Pa r size is 22°; " » artic Cee .
institutions of our size is 22‘.) of the student body will particip The cross-country squad fin
ate in the twelve sports, on
. ished a 7-2. seison as Coach
Freezing In The Stands? Heath Whittle once again prov
ae ed his ability to produce. Led T ’
, » above statistics I ¢ erta at Davids »nts Z : rhe Davidson College
With the above statistics I am certain that Davidson student by Sterling Martin, Bill Eck 5

are not “sitting freezing in the stands” as stated by Dr. Distler.
I further believe this is true in most of our colleges and univer
sities.

As for abolishing intercollegiate sports (football to Dr. Dist-
ler) we should all realize that an intercollegiate contest is an
outstanding physical performance by a group of student per-
fectionists, the ultimate. in physical education. It compares to
the final performance of the Concert Band, the Christmas Con-
cert of the Male Chorus; a dramatic production by the students:
all representing the ultimate of our students in instrumental
music, vocal music and dramatics. Surely these concerts should
not be abolished and replaced by playing a picollo in the dormi-
tory room, singing in the bathtub or talking to one’s self— all of
which have carry over value.

Excellence Is Important

One of the things we strive for in our colleges is excellence
whether it be in the academics, athletics, music, dramatics, or |
many other areas. Davidson has such a program for which we
should all be grateful. Let none of us be so rash that we would
abolish that. which exemplifies excellence on the part of all)
students but let us all strive to strengthen our existing program. |

—_ — ee

Pfeiffer Falls
To ‘Cat Matmen

The . first contest of the winter sports season was
won by Davidson yesterday as the Wildcat wrestlers
topped Pfeiffer, 23-11, in Misenheimer.

than Pfeiffer,”
Here are the results of last
night’s match by weight-class:
123—Tom Wright (D) defeat- |
ed Bob Lovelace, fall, 3:58;
130—-Ed Peel (D) defeated Bob |
Crumbley, fall, 5:04; 137—Don

The ’Cats were strong in the
light and heavy-weight classes,
dropping the three middle-
weight events,

Next up is Duke, who will
be here Wednesday night
with both freshman and vars-

ity teams. Coach Charlie Park- Gabriel (P) defeated Charles
er calls Duke “a pretty strong Trask, fall, 2:04. |
team. . .a whole lot better 147—Charles Abel (P) de-|

Butch LeDoyen, 13-2;
|157—-Jack Lewis (P) defeated
Ben McCoy, 43; 167—Harry
Brown (D) defeated Bob Asher,
fall, 3:45; 177—Jim Alexander
(D) defeated Ed Kohler, 4-1;
jand Heavy weight—C lif f
{Thompson (D) defeated Chip
| Cain, fall, 2:13.
“it looks like some of our
sophomores came through,’
said Parker. This is all but

feated

"D” Club Initiates
Twenty-three Men

Davidson’s “D” Club. this
week released the names of 23
students who were initiated in-
to the organization Nov. 1,

Club president is senior foot-

’ : a trip to South Carolina to
bert, and Captain Dave Gilmour, +

the harriers finished third: in
the state meet and fifth in the
conference meet.

Says Coach Dwight Shoe,

Clemson has a strong sopho

more contingent and will offer

Day
the

Fall, 1960, proved. that
idson not hapless on
athletic field.

us quite a bit more competition
|than they did in the past sea
, when Davidson won seven

1S

son,”

y

TEE REDDING

Wildcat Of The Week

a

Puts On Passing Show

Furman had just scored and the Davidson support-
ers were wondering what had. happened to the magic
the Wildcats had woven into their two final games
the Wildcats’
play from scrimmage, senior
signal caller Tee Redding exe
cuted the option play. to per-
fection, circling his left end for

formation,

Redding said, “It really. was a
disappointment to lose after we
had such commanding
I thought the whole team played

Then, on first

iu lead

ball guard Harold Bynum. Bruce necessary, since Davidson has 56 yards. The nifty dash by @ Sreat game.”
Usher, football linebacker, 15) py four returning letter- Redding revived the ‘Cats, who. When asked which game he
vice president and Dave Irvin, man. ‘ under the direction of their enjoyed most, he responded
soccer wing, is secretary-treas- Among the sophomores, Park- quarterback promptly pushed “The VPI game

a a er singled out Wright and Peel
for special praise.

‘But Harry. Brown turned
in probably the best perform-
ance,’ he said: “Brown's op-
ponent wrestled as a Heavy-
{weight last year.”

NEW MEMBERS
New members include Dave
Lovette, Butch LeDoyer, Gra-
ham Showalter, Jerry Shelton,
Stefan Young, Lee Dixon and
John Chiles.

Also, Jim ee Thompson won his bout hand-
Bussell, D. G. Martin, Buddy WY: though outweighed, 220
Wrose, Harry Smith, uddy | pounds to 175.

Brauch and Harry Cline. _ Two of Pfeiffer’s grapplers

Punning

the pigskin into the end zone,

Redding was at his peak in
his final performance as a Wild
He completely . reversed
pre-season predictions saying

eat.

Markee defends against Alumni’s Hobby Cobb (Photo By Wells)

DavidsonTankmenOpen
Season With Road Trip

swimming team opens its i

960 season next week with

meet ‘first Cle mson on Thursday and U. §, C. on Saturday

of nine meets and finished sec
ond in the Southern Confer
ence

South Carolina will be
somewhat of an “unknown
quantity” when Shoe’s swim-
mers face them on Friday at
Columbia,

Eight
bolster

lettermen are back to

Coach Shoe's | squad
Heading these are Captain Tom
liudgins and Stephan: Young,
both of whom are showing tre
mendous imprevement thus far

in’ practice

Other returnees include Bar
ry Branch, Chase Hunter,
George Gabel, Bob McDonald,

and divers Jack Rose and Bill

Whittington
Winn Hall

are among

Mike
those

and Weeks

from

PAGE THREE

’Cats Hit Deacs In Opener

Driesell Makes Debut
Here Tomorrow Night

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer
The Davidson College basketball team launches its
1960-61 season tomorrow night in Johnston Gymnasium
against the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest. The tip-off
is slated for 8 p.m., immediately following the freshman
game, which will get underway at 6 p. m

The fray. with the nationally jack senior; Jim Nuckolls, 6-7
ranked Deacons begins a. 21- senior who was hampered by an
game schedule for the “new ankle injury last season; and
look’ Wildeats, who are deter. Jerry Bussell, a junior who
mined to better last season's may turn out to be one of Davy-
poor record of 5-19. They have idson’s greatest backcourt. per-
a new coach in Charles “Lefty” formers ever.

Driesell, who will make his de Frosh Coach Joe Hunt con-
but as a college coach, tends that this year's Wildkit-
A WINNER tens have some of the. best

The new Wildcat mentor ex potential ever assembled here.

They get a real test against the

his
Baby Deacs and expected to car-

winning teams when he coached

hibited ability to produce

: : ry » load are 6-7 Terry :
Granby and Newport News, two la el : [ pi ¥ ‘ana hp
Virginia high schools, to four soe ' ae a salt
uckle, Jerr Pg : ,
consecutive. winning seasons, 2UC*"* ca gp eran
Dillon, and Eddie Earle

But the Deacons have a well

known. coach also Horace i a Ab RETR TH a
‘Bone McKinney, former Cc T
prole ional. star, who is noted agers oo
for his winning teams and_ his
crazy bench antic Much For
Last year, McKinney and_ his
Deacons had a 21-7 mark, in me
cludin the Dixie Classics Old- Timers
Championship
THE BOMBERS With tne chiropractors
Returning from that fine con-. Smiling, the Davidson Alum-
ént are 6-8'ers Len Chappell ni took to the hardwood
a Jerr el, big men that’ Wednesday night in a scrap
cal i club; py skirmish with the varsi-
backcourt men Billy Pack- ty that ended with the old-
er-vand. Alle Hart, excellent! timers on the short end of
playmakers: and shooter a 76-43 score
However, several key injuries rhe score ‘belies the excite-
may hamper the Dea Chap- | ment of the game, however, for
pell and Steele are recovering the Alumni bowed out only. af-
from recent knee operations: ter a laudable and determined
ind it is doubtful if they will, attempt
be ready for action For the Alumni, with a roster

Football quarterback Norman that read like a legend of Dav-

Snead has donned a uniform.|idson basketball, it was a night
According to Driesell, the) of spirit and reminiscences, a

‘Cats will be ready physically | night of diehards and dazzling

and mentally Regardless of | moments

Wake billin the Red and Hobby Cobb put on a show of

Black believe they can win and | backboard magic poth defen

Shoe also mentioned for will be out to. do so sive and offensive, still display-
praise his “outstanding” ‘ANYBODY"” ing the Midas touch that made
freshman team. He singled Driesell savs his bovs have |tim Mr. Basketball at Davidson
out Dave Hollenbeck as one jeer ooking good in’ serim Whit Cobb, Dean Ed White
of the freshmen impressive = mayes, and persists, “If we'll; Al Fitzgerald, George Cheek,
thus far as the freshman = just play heads-up ball, we can/ John Belk, J. .D. Ashmore, Mac
team prepares to make the = jai anybody on our schedule.” | MacLean, George Peters, Pat
South Carolina trip with the Looking especially good has | and Mike Williams, were out-

varsity next week,

been 6-6 sophomore center Bill done only in condition and pol-

Davidson holds its first home Jarman, who led last — year's | ish :
meet December 13 against a frosh with a 21-point average For the Alumni fans the
strong V.M.L team, one of the tesides. Jarman, probable, game . was just. short of Old
two teams to defeat the Wild- starters include the following Home Day. They rehatched old
cats in the 1959 season lettermen: Bill Shinn, senior | yells, chants, and -anties, vig-

—— forward and leading scorer a oreusly and spiritedly urging

Riflers Fire Furman

On Campus Today

last.|

| ‘The Davidson rifle team car
jried a 1-1 record into its mateh
{here this afternoon with Fur

year’s freshman team to whom |

Coach Shoe looks to strengthen
his team, and he is “delighted”
at the fine progress made
Sophomore Chuck Frew, who is
out for swimming for the first
time at Davidson.

by |

man, losing to the Hurricane
1397-1386

The
| match

Wildcats have one »more

before the Christmas
| holidays Presbyterian is here
next Friday

For That Gift

For Mom or Girl Friend

Select
A Blouse

A Sweater
A Skirt

From Our Quility Collection

For Christmas
Rush Wilson Lid.

year ago; Joe Markee, jumping: on their team

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

| PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

Let Us Freshen the Impression of All
Your Clothes. Bring Your Dry Clean-
ing to Us So As To Be Ready For the
Next Function

JACKSON
CLEANERS

Main Street

Davidson

the LITE Wat? Gantt...

VOU HAVE TO THINK FOR YOURSELF...

STICK TO THE
WHITE WATER!

he wasn't a passing quarterback,
when he uncorked five aerials
to 2nd team All-Conference end)
Danny House among his seven
completions.

Redding manipulated the
team like a master: to become

- Also, Nick Daves, Newt Burns,
‘tom Brown, Ed Hines, Bill

ittington, Andy Boggs, Bob- |

Snead, Grant McRorie and
Pat Currie.
All members of the “D”

are active in inter-collegiate

sports at Davidson.

are on wrestling scholarships
| —<Abel and Gabriel.
Parker was pleased with the
opening match results, but
warned against undue optimism

along.”

Club | since “our opponents will get |eight-yard jaunt around right
‘tougher as the season goes'end. It was a superb job of

our “Wildcat of the Week.” In

addition, he ran for 68 yards,| ?

} a re

and scored two touchdowns, in-| a 3

cluding a two-yard sneak and an | ee

Jim is taking his son Bob on his first
“white water” canoe trip... «
quarterbacking from the  T-

HIDDEN ROCKS, EH ?

AMAN WHO THINKS
FOR HIMSELF DAD.
THAT WHY YOU

SMOKE VICEROY?

Jim had spotted the slate
formation in the canyon
«+. and realized smooth,
inviting slicks could hide

ing flat_rocks

TALWAYS KNEW YOURE

Gor'r...
AT BOTH ENDS!
GOT THE FILTER,

Viceroy

C@amerres

©1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CO

