More than half the sophomores replying to a poll
conducted by THE DAVIDSONIAN in chapel Tuesday in-
dicated they now have alcoholic beverages on campus
and 372 students stated they have kept them here at
some time.

The questionnaire on the college’s drinking policy
drew answers from 697 students. Responses are shown
in the accompanying box. The poll was similar to an-
other one taken by THE DAVIDSONIAN in 1957.

The 1957 poll shawed 24% in favor of the drinking
rule and 74% opposed. Figures for this week's poll
were 12% for and 88% against.

Opinion was divided on the question of allowing al-
cohol on campus, but a large majority are definitely in
favor of allowing students to return to the campus after
they have been drinking.

A comparison of the two polls reveals feeling has
decreased by 3% in favor of absolutely forbidding
liquor on campus, increased 3% in favor of keeping it
in automobiles, dropped 4% in favor of allowing drink-
ing in fraternity houses on dance weekends, and in-
creased 6% in favor of lifting all restrictions.

Further student suggestions on Tuesday’s poll includ
ed allowing drinking in fraternity houses during func-
tions, allowing it in the Union and declaring fraternity
court off campus.

“Drinking is none of the college’s damn business,”

wrote in one student.

1. Are you satisfied with the present drinking rule
and interpretation?

12% Yes

88° No

What is vour attitude toward allowing students
to have alcohol on the Davidson campus

28° absolutely forbidden.

31° may keep it in automobiles

22° may drink in fraternity houses on dan
weekends.

13° ‘no restrictions

6°> other (see below)

What is your attitude toward permitting students
to return to the campus after they have been
drinking?

8° must not return under the influengaspy
67° may return if he goes directly to room"

te

23% may return in any condition without re-
Strictions.
2% other (see below).

Student opinion on returning to the campus has be-
come more liberal since the last poll. Five per cent less
requested absolutely refusing drunk students on campus,
7% more favored permitting students to return if they

4. Do you drink?

62° Yes

38° No

5. Have you ever kept any form of alcoholic bever-
ages on the Campus?

64°° Yes

36°? No

Do you at present. have some form of alcoholic
beverage in your automobiie or in some other
place’ :
28°. Yes
72° No
7. Have you ever returned to the campus under the
influence of alcohol?

29% Yes

71° No

Do you, or have you ever consumed any form of
alcoholic beverage on the campus?

19°% Yes

81% No

wr rr cs ee ee eee ee ssa

went straight to their rooms, and 12% more favored lift-
ing all restrictions on returning to the campus.

Added comments on this portion of the questionnaire
suggested ae students to drink at all and re-
lieving students of the responsibility for enforcing the

CAGERS HIT

TOUGH GOBBLERS
(See Page Three)

ye Aauitdsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

Poll Shows Drinking Rule Ineffective

rule.

On both polls, 65°7 of those replying indicated that
they drank. The total of those who have kept alcoholic
beverages on ‘campus, however, has increased from 61%
to 44°

Some 19% indicated they had consumed alcohol on

campus, In answer to the question Where?, they listed
fraternity houses, dorm rooms, the parking lot, a jani-
tor's closet and Chambers Building.

According the response to questions in-
volvin the tudent body regula-

to classes.
ig the violation of current
tion ran as follows
Have you ever kept alcoholic
pus?
Freshman 6° Yes Junior 58°: Yes
Sophomore 46% Yes Senio1 78° Yes
Do you at present have some form of alcoholic bev-
erages on the campus?
Freshman 0% Yes Junior 12% Yes
Sophomore 56% Yes Senior 62% Yes
Have you ever returned to the campus under the in-
fluence of alcohol?
Freshman 23% Yes Junior 67° Yes
Sophomore 8° Yes Senior 86° Yes
Have you ever consumed any form of alcoholic bev-
erage while on campus?
Freshman i
Sophomore 20°

beverages on the cam-

Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes

23%

43%

Junior
Senior

FACULTY DECREES NEW
RED BOOK RULES

(See Page Two)

VOL. XLIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1960

NUMBER TWELVE

Faculty Postpones Soph Rush
imposes Strict Rules On Hazing

Madras Boys’ Town
Is Gift Fund Project

By PAUL TRAYWICK
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Surprise Proposal

| By DON SAUNDERS
| Davidsonian Managing Editor

In. a surprise move led by Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz,

- 5

The YMCA Christmas Gift Fund for 1960 will go || the faculty voted to postpone the effective date of Sopho-
to the Boys’ Town in Madras, India. The results of yes- |}

terday’s voting: 98 votes for the Seoul, Korea, YMCA

} more Rush for at least ong year. This vote followed the
| adoption of changes in the Regulations for Students pro-

Building; 99 votes for the Calcutta University Activities |
Building; and the remainder of the votes for the winning

project.

The student body heard the
case for the Madras Boys’ Town
presented in chapel on Thurs-
day, Dec. 1, by Emery Nel-
son. The institution is a project
of the YMCA. It was founded
in 1947 to provide shelter for
homeless boys, and to provide
them with facilities for learn-
ing practical skills.

Although the project has al-
ready proved itself successful,
there is still not enough room
to accommodate all the needy
boys. The gift from the David-
son YMCA is expected to aid
greatly in the problem of mak-
ing the necessary enlargements.

Bob Rea, chairman of the

Gift Fund program, said that
the YMCA hopes that this
year’s project will bring in
approximately $4000, This
is the amount that the pro-
posed. annexations to Ma-
dras Boys’ Town will require.

Rea further remarked that “if
the drive is as successful this
year as it has. been ih previous
years, the YMCA will be well-
pleased.” Nelson said _ in
his. speech last Thursday that
10 years ago, the Davidson Gift

other such practices.
| The faculty action came af-
{ | ter it had accepted a report of
fi the fraternity presidents, and
*} made an addition to the Regula-
| tions for Students, the Red
| Book. (For Red Book changes,
isee Page Two).

| The fraternity presidents’ re-
| port to the faculty was similar
jto the proposals made in stud
jent assembly on Nov. 21. At
|that time, Sigma Alpha Epsilon
President Tommy Covington
outlined sevéral specific chang-
es which the fraternity presi-

Presidents’ Plan
“a th utset.” Is Best Answer |} dents had suggested to the Fac-
grach ‘trom ‘Tne ‘euveet. |ulty Fraternity Committee.

Last year’s fund, which was| Why did Sophomore Rush's; This report called on the ad-
about $3200, was given to the | jeading proponent, Dr. William | ministration to appoint a Fra-
Bangkok Christian Hospital | F Goodykoontz, change his|trenity Liaison Officer, “who
Thailand. This year’s amount is|_. a? ‘would be responsible for fra-
expected to exceed this figure ™P° ternity affairs and who would
by at least $800. | Dr. Goodykoontz declined to... responsibility and author-

The YMCA Fund at Davidson |©°™ment for THE DAVIDSON: ity for insuring compliance”
is similar to the annual charity IAN, but gave the newspaper with college fraternity regula-

funds at various other colleges | ‘Pe text of his speech made to tions

and universities. across the | the faculty last Tuesday. _ RROUESTS ADVISERS
country. Princeton gives about| He said of the fraternity pres- — it toquemed. Sat. “ae-
$4000 annually to a special |idents’ proposals, “They seem tive advisers be appointed for
health service project in India, to me—on the whole—to offer each Sraternity, to. te -tuepee-
and Randolph-Macon Women’s;more hope than Sophomore atte for a overengnt
College contributes approxi-|Rush for achieving these ends of the fraternity's total a
mately $2500 per year to its | (elimination of hazing and ex- oom and for working actively
project. |cessive demands on the time with the Fraternity Liatson Of-

Fund amounted to over $4900.
This gift was sent to the Philip-
pine Island for orphan relief.

Solicitation for the 1960
project will begin Monday.
Between 40 and 50 solicitors
have been chosen. Each so-
licitor will cover one hall or
a portion of a hall, The drive
will last only one week.
“Since the drive is to be very
short this year,” said Rea,
“students are urged to give
their full support to the pro-

|
Goodykoontz Says

Faculty Extends Holiday;
Classes Begin January 3

The Christmas recess has been lengthened by one |
day and will now end on Tuesday, Jan. 3, at 8:20 a.m. |
Drake, chairman of the Committee on
Academic Scheduling, indicated that the faculty approv- |
ed this action in its Tuesday afternoon meeting.

Professor J. T.

This final decision came’ as a
result of a recommendation by
the Committee of Academic
Scheduling to the Executive
Committee, who agreed to the
recommendation and voted to
pass it. The matter was then
brought before the faculty in
the form of Executive Commit-
tee minutes, which they ap-
proved,

Factors considered in grant-
ing this extension were “trav-
eling on Sunday after New
Year’s night celebration, for
some, and for those who live
at distances, traveling both on
Saturday and Sunday,”, Drake
said.

He said the extra day was
iven because “we couldn’t see
y good reason for not doing

of pledges).” ficer” and the representatives

_ of the national fraternity organ-
Goodykoontz termed the presi- izations
dents’ program as “the only, ‘hird, the fraternity presi
specific plan yet advanced for gents decided to continue their
enforcing the regulations con-

cerning the fraternities.’

He hailed the fraternity presi-
dents as “leaders who have had
the will and courage to take a'*
stand which is in the best in-
terests of the college, despite
the disapproval of many of |’
their (fraternity) members, I
| think these leaders deserve the

this.” Drake said he felt that a_ SO SRS CROUNTRGNRER Of
s. ithe ” i
lot of faculty members would ne faculty

a He pointed out that the insti- i
be “happy to stay home an ex- sti ° theseene Sk
©o0 )
tra day and watch a_ bowl | a

: : | September of 1961—just. when
game,” but he denied that this | tp. presidents’ reform program
was a motive for the action tak- | would just be getting started,
en. He did state that “nobody | —would place a handicap upon
was adverse” to the proposal. | it that would make fair evalu-)
Drake reported that F. W., ation of it nearly impossible,
Hengeveld, registrar, indicated | Dr. Goodykoontz concluded
to the Committee on Academic | the speech with this statement:
Scheduling that adding this day! “The bold, voluntary action
as a holiday would not throw of the fraternity presidents has
the Monday - Wednesday-Friday | provided another, and in my)
classes out of batance with the | judgment, a better way to.
Tuesday - Thursday - Saturday | achieve the elimination of seri-
classes. Drake said that “in| ous fraternity interference with.
most cases these are out of bal-|the academic program of the.
ance,” but this holifay will|college. It may not prove so;
make the number of meetings| but at least, I believe, it de-
equal, serves a trial.”

Colvin).

BUZZ PARKER, Coach Charlie Parker's 15-year old son, prac-
tices his part in a 25-piece string orchestra which will be one of
the groups featured in the Christmas vespers service Sunday
night at 7:30. This special service, entitled “A Festival of Nine
Lesson and Carols,” is presented by the Department of Music
and the YMCA at the college church. (Davidsonian Photo by

hibiting stud running, calisthenics, shoe shining, and

organization “on a permanent
basis for cooperative work with
the Fraternity Liaison Officer.”

Fourth, the report called for
revisions of the Regulations for
Students, to clarify the: rules
for fraternities, and to “indicate
clearly the penalties for viola-
tions of these rules.’

President Greer Martin
briefly stepped out of his role
as chairman of the faculty to
read a_ statement concerning
the fraternity president's pro-
posal.

GOODY KOONTZ MOVES

member of the Fraternity Facul
ty Committee, made the motion
(1) that the proposal made by ;
the fraternity presidents by ac- |
cepted by the faculty; (2) that |
the suggested revision of stud-
ent regulations be adopted by
the faculty; (3) that, in the
light of these actions, the ef-
fective date of Sophomore Rush
be postponed for a minimum
period of one year, the post-
ponement to be continued un-
less the faculty should deter
mine that the revised program
has failed to achieve the desired
objectives

The vote on the
cording to President Martin,
was not unanimous, but there
were no dissenting votes cast

motion, ac

DR. E, A. BEATY, secretary of the faculty, and Dr. W. O. Puckett talk to DAVIDSONIAN re-

porters after last Tuesday's faculty meeting, (Davidsonian Photo by Colvin)
Then Goodykooniz, who is a ——~

Drinking Rule Change

Martin: ‘it’s A Mistake ’
Lacy: ‘I’m In Favor Of It’

Student and administration
leaders met the Student Coun
cil’s proposal to strike from the

constitution the “Under the in

fluence’ clause with mixed
feelings.

The . Council unanimously
passed the motion to eliminate
the controversial clause of the
regular Monday night meeting

Dean of Students John ¢
Bailey declined to comment
asking for more time

the proposal over
President D. Grier Martin was
pleased with the council

not
move

“| feel like the complete
giving up by the student gov-
ernment of any responsibility
in the matter is a mistake,”
Dr. Martin said.” While | real-
ize that the duty cond im-
posed upon the general stud-

ent body has never been
truly effective, |! object to
giving up the ideal of en-

forcement.”

Scott. Lacy, Chairman of the
Honor Court, said, “I like it
I'm very much in favor of it.”
Lacy said that this would put
the burden of responsibility on
the faculty, where it reaily be
longs.

in a letter sent to the fac-
ulty last Tuesday, Student
Council President Henry Shue
stated, “It is important to

think ~~

note that we are retaining § the student body from enforce
the student regulation aga:nst

the possession or drinking of

ment
The amendment which will

effect the deletion will proba

alcoho! on campus and the
lati aac ' e- voted upon by the stud-
regulation against ungentle- .

. i nd body around Jan. 5, It
manly conduct for whatever with Article 10, section
reason, including drinking. f the Student Body Constit
“Above all, the Student Coun reads, “No student
cil wants’ to make it clear that Hb DeMsE “U

: ' of alcoholic 1
ur propos. not intended t
il ru

pre {

g ra th stude .
diy. The issue was not o> Union Party Offers
rova iy ia
Th v« vhove. Horton As St. Nic
wa ue Cony th the
rile 1 to di rhe second annual Student
ciplin } urea. This s Party will

iy g it We r Dec. 16
ny ce t
“ey Ww er ng

id Santa Claus for-the evening
{ if
rhe. party, with a theme of

mm u 5 see
e influ: We believe th Christmas in Many Lands,
to keep the present rule is to will feature a dance for which
make | inevitable and a busload of girls from Queens

that. continued

duplicity is @ ang Memorial Hospital will be
greater ning influence jmported. The name of the
than lor system “CaN combo has not been announced
stand.” yet, but the juke box wil) be

Whether the deletion is pass- turned on “free play,’

ed or not; the “under the influ- Highlight of the evening will
ence’ rule will still be in ef-, be a faculty-student contest at
fect on the Davidson campus jntermissior: “There will also
as long as it is also contained be door prizes, games, and a
in the faculty’s Regulations for caricaturist drawing free pic-
Students in the Red Book. The tures. Russian tea and pizza

deletion, however, will -relieve | will be sold at the snack bar,
