FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9. 1950

A LOOK AT...

SPORTS

By Bill Godwin

In The Wake Of Wake

NO APOLOGIES, please. Winston-Salem rational-
ized our upset cage win over Wake Forest. So did the
wire services. And many others. But the Deacons —
on crutches — stand straighter than most teams. David-
son, seeing visions of VPI, simply had more hustle and
desire to win.

Davidson Swimm
First Win Over Clemson

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cagers Hit Va. Tech Today

ers Take |

By CARL RUST
Davidsonian Sports Writer
The Davidson College tankmen, after taking on Clem-
son and USC, meet the VMI Cadets here on Monday.

Yesterday, the Wildcats top- tenders for the Southern Con-
pled Clemson, 62-32, for their ference crown and should be
first victory of the season. Bar- pretty tough for the ‘Cats,

PAGE THREE

Varsity Tops Deacons;
VMi And Catawba Win

By JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcats, now bearing an 0-1 conference record,
went to Blacksburg from Lexington today endeavoring
to improve their Southern Conference footing in a bout
with VPI that may well prove to be one of the biggest.
hurdies of the season.

AS THEY COME
Coach Lefty Driesell is hesi-

Considering VPI's stronghold
position in the conference this

i Tuesday the ’Cats were embarrassed at},, Branch and Captain Tom ‘The Cadets are extra strong
their own game by Catawba (playing two freshmen). Hudgins\won two firsts for Dav- in the butterfly and the back- fyear and the ‘Cats’ proved po- tant about any predictions for
Quite an experience, from both extremes. idson—Branch in the 100-yd, stroke, and are nobody's push- tential against Wake Forest, future games. “I don't like to
DAVIDSON did its home-’ te free style and individual med- over in the other events 65-59, the Tech game is a deci- look too far ahead,” he says.
work for the opener. To F ley and Hudgins in the 220 and Coach Shoe said, ‘If the boys sive step We're going to play them one
see it all you have to weigh- 440 free style (Carter Mebane aren't doing a good job, it Last’ night, Davidson's Bil] 4t @ time. One at a time.”
in the air-tight training ; placing second in both these could result into a long day.” Jarman sank 22 points and Jet Before the game with Cataw-
rules, the practice sessions’ events) The Cadets have been practic: | ry Bussell had 14 as the Wild- >a he frankly warned his cag-
punctuated by outbursts ; Jack Rose won the diving ing since the early part of Sep f cats blew a 54-47 lead and lost that Catawba had a good
from a coach who wants to: competition and Tom French tember | to. the ‘VMI Keydets, 72-68, in ball team. And then as the
win. And you have to place took a first place in the 200 Today the ‘Cats met U.S.C. their first conference. gamc Cats dropped their heart-twit-
the final praise on Lefty backstroke with Chase Hunter at Columbia, Bussell led late si yg cher, 54 2, Tuesday night,
Driesell, dynamic and posi- second "Looking: over Davidson's per itze which. brought. the score Driesell’s cagers knew what he
tive, a winner in his first VMI is one of the top con- nnel, Shoe stated that all the Lf 6 VMI Weldon Eddi meant
college game. Lefty's go- Fciiau oa - hove have been wilins vee , oul shots dn 0) But there an e of op
iy old hile = : be lucky a hard and have a good attitude. I u “ ra nl s GC
to hoid him for long. fod t R p rhe ‘times 6 oe: Catfish ate tors rie ap
ae pe : ni up Pe e aS ‘ *) vs a ee N Forest
sub TEC Ot scnotars ps. Ac- 9 . rd times : m
rding to the Charlotte pa- ATO 5 F or Captain Tom Hudgins has :
pers, we've suddenly hit aj r - been looking extra good and a
ndfall . in. : rye ky Si Points Shoe hopes that he will break ad =
ne} an so. ur” : ree own record before mid- cs BOG
‘ in We Driesell: His Debut The Betas relied up $1 point énaaons , : . A ies
ent nd all pel it of its returns to athletic | Monday night in G Hu ARKEE —
holarships. Basketball ¢ 20:3 mnt of the 34 per tt } 1 ‘ se |
or about $16,000 a year. TI 1ount rises light 0's, 51 B: Branch, ar ; H k
each year. The reason for optimism lies in the fact ty ; n :
ur paid plave raduate 1 th . < t] ‘i O£ KE f r FULL SLATE
thers have quit. the sguU id since last sea: VINE : , 8 pr ing arm of Wake Forest's Norm Snead. Markee had t ;
more than half the kittv for reeruitin f die ie te th ti ‘ oieas to
Si Chis, .42-3¢ , 25 points. Deacon Alley Hart looks on. (Photo by Weil : tin wi
A Character On Campus KA's whipped the Phi G I genet :
i - ES te Ko st ‘was he re. R sing as a stark spir 4 sawiiel ‘nin Mae bgen é C 0 =
besi ie Deacon bench, he defied the Davidson cheer- A] t ine too much ar this a S Fes é hy cl
ing section (illled and looking for a Baptist martyr), )bie SAE wrestler ist. week |se: ik adimisiil ram efi i the
ries it Was ‘" oe mr sen better nights. Beset with) moved the SAE's down. thre few Ww ( n Kannay sae ; i ike
Key injuries, he had predicted our victor 1@ passed lace 1:] restii nd T j prospec! wr the 41 , j ‘ © tear Marker sill Ja
the ticket oifiee eaneae i a ee asi Heat, in Pl aaa to rifth "Th ‘ om a ar gee tor Ci vat ¥ t disiees aie on i ues : . ee
Davidson. fullback Bones remarked, “You can make. pew ord f te abe K A's 31 shoe i { * “ ge to ai @! osing 0 u é cn ia ak ne rst ee
é ] ; Yet, ‘ new order of tei } 2 Shoe statec e hope to have oe ; j(and the first on the Davidson second-leading ‘scorer. with 47
my team, Boy,.as long as you're crippled. Phi Delts and Sigma Chis 13;) a winning season and with the floor) the Wildeats will enter nd -Bill nor
WAKE FOREST did not, SPE’s 11, and SAE’s 10 (20 be-| hard work and good attitude of By AUBREY LANCASTER tain. Lyles Allen’s tough Fit _ : ee a
ae 7 “gg! a fore the protest) these boys we should have one,” Davideonien Sports Weiter sisi seued replaced Bussell when he fouled
meal, u ublicity man / sis j a ‘4 akes to. the out in the Wake game, scoring
Marvin Francis dropped this | | This Wednesday Davidson's wrestling team journeys ae pied seni Boe the Ait’ tives sioliita
compliment: “This gamé | to Chapel Hill to take on a strong University of North to William and Mary for the — Senior Forward Bill Shinn
and the VPI upset mean a ur op ayer frisay coinage pr in onto 9 of avenging a 16-14 defeat at} ji.) came before the Christma w limited action in the Ca-
tremendous boost for your the hands of the Tarheels in 1959. holidays. =
athletic program. Congrat- ed Sg a pee ae
ulations.” 4 Ce re igen le
HOSE perone the Directs Cagers | SPORTS SLATE
tawba game it was learned
lg. pn gy gs aie By STEVE CLARK . | | VARSITY BASKETBALL —FROSH BASKETBALL |
captain, had been drafted Davidsonian Sports Writer Dec. 12--Catawba at. Kan- Dec. 14—Furman at David- |
by the professional Dallas Cowboys. House made second- = When the final buzzer sounded in Johnston Gymna- | napolis. Dee. 17: douiy Cavill he
team All-Conference for the second straight year, grab- sium last Saturday night, 2,000 screaming fans erupted | Dec. 14—-Furman at David- Cal a on eG
bing five passes against Furman. Our congratulations. onto the court to hoist the victorious Davidson cagers | son. epee 0 Mineittocs aHA jt cdi oe
CROSS-COUNTRY notes: Sterling Martin and Dav- (onto their shoulders. i tint ee at| Bivaew oC oe
i eG i e : Ns re = s of | a a \) * “Ty
pet gah noe ighth ne pel Confer-, Perhaps the happiest of those night before. at Williamsburg SWIMMING | (| K if rey, 4 |
ence meet and landed a spot on the eight-man All-Con- | hoisted giant killers was Danny — Carrell responded beautiful: | Dec. 29 & 30—Laurel Invi- Pec. 13—VMI at Davidson.| “% Nae
ference team. Meet trophies were given to Martin, Bill | Carrell, a 5-11 sophomore guard ly. He set up plays that time) |NJURED: ALEXANDER | tation Tourney at Laurel, jan. 13—-William & Mary| I
Eckbert, Gilmour and Larry Leafer, who finished 16th, | from Louisville, Ky. You see, and again gave teammates easy) . . . they needed him. | Miss. (Miss. Southern, N. at Davidson. 4 iniatis abananie sda ake
22nd and 25th, respectively. Carrell had just piayed his first shots, He limited Hart to 15} Coach Charlie Parker expects | Denes State. £0 WRESTLING |: abiding ‘hatred’ for ‘the bottom crust
5 | basketball game, and had en- points. And he tossed in eight|,..._. 2 j exas State, & enn Dec. 14-UNC: at Chapel] °! "ye bread. There is no particular
Soccer Notice igineered the Wildcat. victory. markers, including a. valuable se N< = have a ect og | State). Hill . ¥ 1apel | reason for making his point, ekeept
FROM DR. MARROTTE, who has just resigned as For his outstanding perform- free throw in the last two min 1°, ino oe i agin Pag the |Jan. 4—William & Mary at Jan. 12—The Citadel -at uae tT aie a
Davidson soccer coach: “All students interested in ance, Carrell is our “Wildcat utes a ta oT ae S| Riieiiians pg er ok ' ad Ge ee tn eld ae
playing on the soccer squad next season are asked to of the Week.” LAUDS SUPPORT | puke this tr Wednesday 14 pin |. either, but I have been thinking of
meet in Chambers, 319, on Wednesday, Dec. 14, at 10:15, A STOPPER Carrell, who says he “felt) 1. jon fared cee el jt act Leneaeaaaie lort Lei lerdal is
a.m. Please notify Captain Joe Kelley or Prof. Marrotte| Coach Lefty Driesell tabbed great” when he was told to} Pig e aeiian assert of the that is. oes Ot Bus ativan aia
if you cannot attend.” bow —— Binge rig mid- _ ge age “All of ~ aie. i pind in an Lauderdale. (The
j idle guard only a few minutes players really appreciate the |° 2 hamber of Commerce »\:!] hate me;
FINALLY, we would like to make 2 sng re pela to the tip-off. This as- fine support of the students. | Davidson's sophomore-stud- ye lerdale ing Be rail sy

cheering
leaders at the Wake.

|

basketball cheerleading. Student
overwhelming.
Forest game, only one for Catawb
cheering has been spontaneous.
recruitment of a group of No
School girls to cheer at home

quite like the freshness and vitalit

MERRY CHRISTMAS!

Holland Leads Frosh

But there were no
a: For the most part,
We'd like to see the
rth Mecklenburg High |
mes. There's nothing |
y of a high school lass. |

The talent-heavy freshman team of Coach Joe Hunt |
goes in search of its second victory here Wednesday |
night against Furman’s frosh at 6 p.m.

Offsetting a varsity setback ,
Tuesday, the ‘Kittens rapped "Untouchables"
Wingate Junior College, bite
Six-seven Center Terry Hollan
sank 26 points while controlling Top League
both backboards and Guard Ly-|
man Dillion ripped the cords| The Davidson College ROTC
for 8 of 11 field goal attempts in | howling team, nicknamed “The
the first half, winding up wth | Untouchables,” is currently |
wg tg uh lost thdir epener tu’ leading the Piedmont Bowling |

e frosh lost their ae ees
powerful Wake Forest, 75-67, ag ea ge in anid
playing a close game all the touchables’ high point man. |
"Bi Beerman, 65, Mike — whe poe high ens

i Howard Ar-/0n last year’s team, recently
buckle mae - the first five. | edged out Bob Gregory. The lat-
Hunt said, “I am very well ter Gregory is a sophomore and
pleased with progress shown by only student on the team.
the team, especially Dillon, Hol- The Untouchables bowl every
land and Arbuckle. Our main | Wednesday night at the Frye’s
weakness is defense, as we | Lake Lanes on the Popular Tent
looked ragged at times against Road, just off Highway 29, near
Wingate. Concord. The Piedmont |
“I think we have some sound ie compecss @ industria! eae)
business teams from Cabarrus
ballplayers and I’m looking for-| and Mecklenburg counties.
ward to the remainder of the| This year's edition of the Un-
season”—16 more games. touchables includes the two
Hunt spent most of last week

scouting and recruiting. Dean captain, Capt. Hampton, Col.
White helped out in his ab- Adams, Sgt. Penley, Sgt. Crump
and Capt. Pierce.

‘We're sorry we played so| ded team wrestled well and
was in the match all the way
to the final decision. David-
son‘’s points were garnered by
Tom Wright in the 123-Ib.
class, who pinned his oppon-
ent in 3 minutes, 37 seconds;
Charlie Trask, who took the
1374b. weight; Cliff Thomp-
son, who gained victory in:
the 177-+b, division; and Ed
Peel who wrestled to a draw
in the 130-Ib. class.

Earlier in the evening David-
}son’s freshmen had lost to the
Baby Blue Devils by 27-3
margin.

Heavyweight Tom Day tallied
the ‘Cats only score, but fresh-
man Coach Kelton expects “vast
improvement” before the U.N.
C. match.

Parker singled out Wright,
Peel, Thompson, and John
Cameron (heavyweight) as be-
ing particularly outstanding for
the 'Cats, who were weakened
by the loss of Jim Alexander,
who will be out until after
Christmas with a _ dislocated
shoulder.

The U.N.C. match will be the
last for the Wildcats before the

signment meant that Carrell
‘would have to call the plays and
defend Alley Hart, an experi-
enced senior who had hit 14 of
21 shots against Florida the

terrible against Catawba, but
we're going to bounce back this
weekend and then run Catawba
off the court Monday night.”

a

twenty thousand collegians descend
on this peaceful community and take
it apart, peace by peace. They call
it Spring Vacation, but it’s more like
amateur night at. Cape Canaveral.

holidays. Davidson will meet |
©. | The Citadel and West Virginia
iin a big wrestling weekend
jhere on January 12 and 14 to;
get their post-holiday season |
| under way.

se abi HO

Toss

.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

a ¢ -
(= f

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING
BEST

Davidson's rifle team
its record to 3-2 here today, d
feating Presbyterian, 1376-1370.

straight day. He shot 279 |
night as the Wildcats walloped
Wake Forest in an unscheduled

They conture Florida and throw the
Keys away. But I shouldn't joke
not tile people are holding .mass
pra meetings for an early hurri-
‘ on
i ere > bo are And
{ n iris m v«
them. 1 ui
, 4 a
t ol ‘ |
1 t
! i!
" |
t i ;
snd hote! ll of nn, «
1 full « m, |
is them dat it
t nan It ie
“ea in life that int
. ¥ sheet a — 1? must have. been thinking-of bathing
COACH DRIESELL looks on as his cagers clasp hands be- But’ mostly, it’s the » girls.
fore the Wake Forest game. Team effort paid off for the ‘Cats Girls in love, girls in trouble, bright
in a 65-59 upset. | girls with a future, not-so-bright
oe ces ois — t past, rich ls in the lap
| ars in any jap
1, girls of every size
e and a It isn't any wonder
vhere the boys are.”
| a | And things. that happen are
wacky and wild and wicked and
warmly wonderlul “where the boys
i | are.”’ Someone tiould make a movie
For Mom or Girl Friend tit. Hey me did! M-G-M
it. “Where The Boys Are.”
j starring Dolores Hart, George Hamil-
e ect ouse |} ton, Yvette Mimicux, Jim Hutton,
| Sarbara Nichols, Paula Prentiss, with
Frank Gorshin and introducing popu-
; lar recording star Connie Francis
in her first screen role. You Vi eA
want to see°<!! the th Pra as .
Ww that happen “Where Tice, vim
Bove Are.” Ba acdar
~ SY
@ Caio a
iad on sy
i Metro-Goldwyn-.faver a 7"
presents )
“WHERE THE BOYS ARE” ‘
A Euterpe production :
From Our Quality Collection in Cine pe anid ie
: eo : .
= recnpiay by George W. 4
For Christmas Ssteiseonts Se
Glendon, Swarthout.
Directed by Henry Levin. “oe
us Ison °

match in Winston-Salem.
