Che Dauvidsanian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1960

(All Unsigned Editorials oy the Editor)

Wanted: A Level

One must admit, we think, that
the primary purpose of an education-
al institution is academic.

But there are several activities
which draw on the student’s time and
make it difficult for him to meet the
academic challenge. We do not ques-
tion the possible good that is derived
from these activities, but we should
look at the amount of emphasis the
college places on the various phases
of student life.

The big and perennial .question
that faces us then is the relationship
of athletics to the academic, and the
relative amount of interest that is
placed on these. An easy way to judge
this comparison is to look at the
amounts of money that are spent or
each; we take as a reference the Liv-
ing Endowment Fund, raised year by
year.

Our figures show that a total of
$88,250 goes to 220 academic schol-
arship holders, which averages about
$40Q per man. On the other hand, 64
athletes receive $60,365, about $940
apiece. The 49 of these students who
hold football scholarships average
over $1,000.

These figures themselves are al-
most frightening. But let us go on to
compare the methods by which the
scholarships are awarded and kept.

Academic scholarship .pplicants
must meet rigid require ents, and
must take tesis and interfews admin-
istered by the scholarsh¥p committee.
If a man,is lucky enough to receive
such a scholarship, he must continue
to exhibit the standards upon which
he was awarded the scholarship. If
his grades fall below a certain aver-
age, his scholarship is withdrawn.

Balance

The man, on the other hand, who
holds a football scholarship received
it on comparatively vague criteria. In
some cases, a football scholarship is
awarded without any officials ever
having seen the boy play.

Once an athlete receives his schol-
arship, he has no more worries. It is
virtually impossible to withdraw an
athletic grant: some boys sit on the
bench for four years, but the money
continues to flow.

With the tremendous outlay of
money, we manage only to eke out
winning seasons, and occasionally
don’t do even that. It is clear that we
are on a Slippery middle ground; we
subsidize enough to be able to ‘“‘com-
pete” in the Southern Conference,
but not enough to make it worthwhile.
An increase in the subsidization pro-
gram would throw the ledger even
more out of balance. But to decrease
the amount a few thousand dollars
would be disastrous.

We would like to see an admission
that we just cannot compete success-
fully in Southern Conference football.

We would like to see the athletic
percentage of Living Endowment
Fund lowered to the point where it
would cover, say, twelve full basket-
baall scholarships — approximately
$16,000.

What of the $45,000 remaining in

the present athletic scholarship |

chunk? Put it into academic scholar-
ships.

Such a system, we think, would
make for a more equitaable apportion-
ment. The college would be putting
respectable emphasis on the academic
sideof college life, where it should
be in the first place.

Exception Or Norm?

With all the rumblings going
around about how fraternities should
justify themselves, we are glad to see
that one group has taken the talk to
heart and is making such an effort.

The ATOs' “Queens - Davidson
Olympics” seems to be a good thing.
The proceeds will go to charity and
besides that, the more sadistic mem-
bers of the student body will have an
opportunity to chuckle condescend-
ingly as the members of the weaker
sex go through their athletic antics.

The dance afterwards should also
be good since Loonis McGlohon, the
leading jazz exponent in this part of
the country, is furnishing the music.

But even more important than the
enjoyment factor, in our opinion, is
the example that this sets for the
other fraternities. It is an example of

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

Asseciate Biter —.. Jim Hamiiten

Managing Béitere _. Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore

B. Miler

Sperts Bditer
Featare Bélter .o... Tom Colvin

the many ways in which a fraternity
can benefit the community, to become
a little more than a group that has
parties.

We suspect that if the fraternities
made such practicés the norm instead
of the exception that there wouldn't
be so many people running around
finding faults with the system and
trying to change it.

Student support for this projéct
will be an indication to the powers
that be that students are interested in
this sort of project and that fraterni-
ties do have other purposes than just
to provide social life. And besides
this, if you come you'll probably have
a heck of a good time.

That is, unless you win the Ugly
Man Contest.

Entered as Second Clem Matter 6t the Fest Office at Bévidem, Neh
under Act

THE STUDENT SOLDIER:

Compulsory ROTC...
Off Again, On Again?

Editor’s note: This article is the first of a four
part series concerning military training at Davidson

College.
By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Compulsory military training—coming under fire
across the nation now—is an old issue at Davidson Col-
ege.

For years since the establishment of Davidson's
ROTC branch in 1919, controversy has existed concern-
ing the place of ‘“‘war preparation” in a Christian college.

GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS

Davidson College catalogues from 1919 until 1934
Stated that all students would be required to take two
years of basic ROTC. “Completion of the basic course
shall . . . be a prerequisite for graduation,” said the
catalogue rule.

But in the middle thirties a wave of pacifist senti-
ment swept the country and Davidson’s military require-
ments came in for heavy criticism.

“DRILL, SHOOT AND STAB”

In September 1933 the Greensboro News scored
Davidson's trustees on the issue. ‘‘We have never been
able to understand,” said the News, “how or why a
church-controlled institution, presumably founded upon
Christian philosophy in which life is held sacred, peace-
makers are hailed as the children of God, and brotherly
love is proclaimed as a supreme tenet, should teach
Bible or hold chapel one hour and send its youth out,
under compulsion, to learn how to march, drill, shoot,
and stab the next.”

STUDENTS. CRITICIZE POLICY

A student letter of 1933 attacked compulsory train-
ing as “wholly unethical and unChristian,” in a long
protest published in the DAVIDSONIAN.

“There is a ghastly irony in this Davidson scene,”
said the students. “At 10:15 a.m. we are compelled to
worship the God of Love and the Prince of Peace; at
3:05 p.m. we are compelled, with rifles on our shoulders,
to study the art of mass murder.”

RULE CHANGED

Davidson's Board. of Trustees met to consider the
issue on February 21, 1934. At this meeting the trustees
modified the rule to permit students with parental per-
mission to forego military training.

Newspapers across the state praised the trustee
action. Said the Charlotte Observer: “Davidson has made
admirable disposition of the issue by leaving the gate
open for future students to step aside if they elect not
to engage in this definition of physical education. . .
If this training invests the mind of youthhood with the
instincts of war, it is unwholesome.”

MORE CHANGES COME

From the early, strict requirement of basic ROTC
as a “prerequisite for graduation,” the college moved to
a more liberal policy enabling students to avoid ROTC;
this policy gradually tightened. Later editions of the
Davidson catalogue specify that students’ parents may
object only for “reasons approved by the college author-

ities.”
1960: IT’S TOUGHER

The 195940 college catalogue shows another
change, apparently making it tougher to avoid the. basic
ROTC course: the new catalogue states that students
may be excused “who are conscientious objectors, as
based on religious training or affiliation, as certified by
parents and approved by college authorities.”

The 1959-60 wording may be just a clarification of
the older ruling concerning parental consent; at any
rate it appears harder now to avoid compulsory training.

This year and in the past few years all freshmen
and sophomores have taken the basic ROTC course ex-
cept those physically disabled or those having previous
military experience.

THE HAWK’S NEST

Supports Plar
For TV Debate

By JACK TAYLOR

ro

. heeeps

Lg

The Plumed Knights ........... by Cole

THE “NEW” ELECTIONS ORDER:

Council Proposes Amendment

Files Show Passage Last Year

Davidson's Student Council
this morning proposed to
amend the Student Body Con-
stitution—with an amendment
passed last March.

A check of DAVIDSONIAN
files today turned up the fol-
lowing report, dated March 6,
1959:

“Also voted on and approved
Tuesday were two amendments
to the Student Body Constitu-
tion, the effect of which will be
to modify the plan of voting in
spring elections and to remove
two offices from student elec-
tions completely.

“The first amendment
changes Section 4 of the By-
Laws to read:

“There shali be five phases
in Student Boedy elections:
(1) Student body officers, (2)
Honor Court, (3) Class presi-
dents, (4) Freshman adviser,
YMCA, Publications, (5) Stu-

Miller Hits Policy
On Athletic Grants | ;

Dear Faitor:

President Martin’s stand on

the necessity of subsidizing
athletes who need no financial

Adlai Stevenson's suggestion of a great televised assistance raises several ques
political debate between the presidential nominees tions in: my mind.

seems to be the most practical solution to the nagging
problem of how to “take some of the waste and foolish-

ness out of our election campaigns.”

The traditional method of
campaigning, that of barn-
storming the country, has failed
as a means of bringing the ts
sues and the candidates before
the electorate. The candidate is
heard by only a small segment
of the voting population, an

interest. Such a debste would
focus the emphasis

The first le the question of

why it is necessary for David-
son to compete athletically, and
therefore financially, with insti-
upen the tutions with five and six times

men ond their abilities, and its enrollment.

would add the dignity which
such a campaign deserves.

Why, then, haven't the politi-

4 cél parties themselves adopted

his speeches are often limited this method? For one simple

to questions of strictly local
terest, such as the boll weev

in. Teason — cost. Each half-hour
il, of television time costs the

As Davidson’s record in the
major sports over recent years
has shown, this competition, in
pite of subsidization, is an un-
realistic and unnecessary effort.

Even if we do concede the

the fruit fly, or the dairy tick. SP°MS0r something like $70,000. necessity of paying boys to rep-

In the traditional barn-
storming tour, the President-
tel candidste’s campaign is
often reduced to the level of
e carnival side show in which
popular stunts become more
important than the great is-
sues facing the nation.

If the cost problem could be re-
solved, the parties would gladly

resent Davidson athletically,
who don't we likewise pay them

dent Body Representatives.

Then he‘ produced a mimeo-

“The other amendment added graphed constitution prepared

the following to the By-laws as
Section 6:

by his council which did not
inelude last year’s by-laws

‘athletic council represent- Changes.

atives and head cheerleader
will be appointed by the stu-
dent council within 15 days of
student body elections.’
“These amendments took ef-

fect immediately and the re-
mainder of spring elections will

Last year a student commit-
tee under President John
Kuykendall prepared the
amendment which wes passed
last spring.

After a series of meetings the

be conducted according to the group proposed the block-elec-
new. plan,” said the DAVID- tion system and it was accept-
SONIAN report. ed with minor revisions: by the

Today Council President Dee student council. Green served
Green professed no knowledge on the 1958-59 council as Junior
of last year's changes. Class president.

“We didn’t block “PM the Today's proposal grouped
clections.” not nt akon class president's elections and
adviser election In a group.” ° student representative elec-
Staff members offered to in the same block;

show him the DAVIDSONIAN is
report.

tions
otherwise the proposal

identical to the changes of
last year.

“I want to see that,” he said.

TOIL AND TROUBLE

» Some Frat Members
«Do Show Maturity

BY JOHN STONE

¥

?

In the recent attack on the Davidson fraternity

, the level of the argument could be improved
fhe. issue were better defined.
There are those who do not vice, and self-realization. This is

care a whit about fraternities,
and unfortunately mummy of this
group are fraternity mes.

The chellenge te fraternites
iles here, and, es is often the
cams, the preblem is with in
dividuals, not with e system.

If fraternity men would con-

sistently conduct themselves as
true fraternity men, the evils
in the system would disappear

and who can deny that improve-
ment is being honestly attempt-

deniable only by those who
close their eyes to the facts.

The charge has been modo
thet fraternities corrupt. How-
ever, | heave found, and have
tried te fester, allegiance te
moral standards. The fect is
thet the moral standerd ef
the iIndividuel {s ecquired
long befere hea comes te col-
lege, and if e man will be
corrupted, he will be corrupt
ed.

Another charge is that fra-
ternities discourage extra-cul

adopt Mr. Stevenson's recom- to represent her academically?
mendation. Why do we pay an athlete to
win his allegiance, but give

It is not realistic to hope that money to scholarship winners

ed by those who have tasted the ricular activities. This is ludic-
sweetness of brotherhood based rous. A great part of a fratern-
on the right of social selection ity’s external value is its men
in a condition of sovereign in high places. One wonders

the networks would be happy to
donate the time. Nor does it
seem likely that the party cof-

fers could fully cover the costs
An Indian chief's bonnet and of an adequatae debate pro-
a kissed baby certainly are not gram, which must run at least
criteria to judge a candidate for an hour a week for eight to
the most important executive ten weeks.
office in the world. The answer seems to lie
A political debate between with the national government,
the Presidential nominees, car- which could provide the nec:
tied by television into each essary funds from the public
voter's living room, would elim- coffers. The money would
inate most of the limitations in- hardly be better spent buy-
herent [in the barn-storming ing tractors and latrines for
campaign. Practically every Peruvian Indiens.
voter has access to a t. v. set. And, after all, presidential
The issues considered would campaigns come only once
necessarily be ef national

every four years.

only when their parents are al-
most destitute?

IT am sure that the Admissions
and Scholarship Committees are
aware of the many boys offered
“honorary” scholarships to Dav-
idson who have turned them
down {for other universities and
colleges who offered them
money as well as honor.

If we wish to call Davidson
an “educational institution,” as
President Martin does, shouldn't
we spend a little more money
on students who can justify the
name?

Bob Miller

equality?
This is the group which

whether the reason for the
weakness in extra-curricular ac-
tivities could be that the activ-

justifies the existence and
continuance of fraternities,
without some of the more
stupid trappings. These men
—and they are there, | know
many of them—ere the pro-

ities themselves are not worthy
of participation.

The charge of discouraging
schoo) spirit may be a revela-
tion of the frustrations of the
ducts of the system as it is accusers. It is, after all, diffi-
now and as it has been. cult to cheer a habitually losing

They have devoted them. team.
selves selflessly to the princi. One final charge is “infen-
ples of their fraternities, and tile brutality.” If this is true,
the reward is in sight. The re- there Is mo defense. Hell
ward is tho moulding and shap- week Is the supreme manifeo
ing of men who are given in tation ef this. Hell week is
fraternity the chance to develop fesressive end stupid; thet ts
the talents of leadership, ser. Why tt has been abelished.

What has taken its place may
WHIRLYBIRDS
eam

not yet represent the heights of
maturity, but it can; it is a
proven fact that constructive
pre-initiation activities build
unity and loyalty.

The system can improve; it
bas demonstrated its willing-
ness to Go so. If it is not con
pelled to spend its energies
fighting for ite life, it will eon-
tinue to do 60.
