THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1960 ©

» , A LOOK AT...

“FT SPORTS

By Bill. Godwin

——— ns 2 tras —=

} 4

Our congratulations to fore-runner B. Millner, who
overcame his handicap as sports editor and remains our
boss.

. |

William and Mary has what must be the shortest.
college baseball team in the South. It’s enough to make
one sympathize with Dee Green, who hurled 14 innings!
against the Indians Monday. Short players (there were,
at least five of them) are normally the pitcher’s curse. |
They're the guys who draw the walks and score the runs.
But the righthander was at his best this week, allowing |
only eight hits in two games.

Coach Stevens’ main worry during the long after-
noon was not the Indians, but the Davidson papooses
who station themselves beyond the outfield fence and
grab up the stray baseballs that come their way. New
baseballs. Money. The Wildcats, notorious for occasional
shoddy fielding, sometimes can’t handle the ball on the
playing field. But past the fence—have a heart. Luckily,
Stevens had his Little Leaguers at work on the extra
theft load. These boys stick it out all season long. All
they ask in return is a cracked bat or worn-out baseball
from time to time.

ee

BY LEAPS AND BOUNDS—John Huie, Davidson
senior, is captured by photographer Gene Wells in the

middle of a high jump during Wednesday's meet. This
Already, Southern Conference coaches are endors-

ing The Citadel for the loop championship. Two out- | h re e@ ; i a ck R e C or d S F el e d
the Cadets up front. But George Washington, defending
D

standing righthanders—Dick Almes and Ed Colby—rate
last year’s first place finish (7-2), ‘may have something
Mike Laughlin, who hopped, Martin stood out for, Davidson have.” He went on to point out

to say about that.
The Citadel comes Jast on the Davidson schedule. S uriman
Neither team showed any mercy for William and Mary
stepped. and jumped 44° 534” by taking first place in the mile that they will be stronger in

over the weekend. Almies and Colby set the Indians down
(a school record) to first place, and the 880. certain events, but that we will

5-0 and 3-1 on Friday and Saturday. Davidson, in a hot
batting streak and not to be. outdone, pinned two more
tosses on the Indians 7-3 and 7-6. and who captured first in the The loss to surman left the definitely be the strongest in
broad jump with a leap of 22° Wildcats with an overall. won- many events—which all goes ‘to
4%"; lost record of 3-1, and a con- make up what should be a very
Pat Curry, who finished sec- ference record of 0-1. However, Interesting meet——
ond in the high and low hurdles; Coach Heath Whittle expects to Coach Whittle concluded that

effort merited second place for Huie, who Sater set
a new Wildcat record in the pole vault, soaring 12’
an",

A Prediction...

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The varsity and freshman
track teams of Furman Univers-
ity defeated the Davidson Col-
lege teams here Wednesday
afternoon in .an“exciting meet

e s *

George Washington’s Jim Tarr, Jim Whitehead and

{went
~-|Cline was the big stick man

Davidson Takes On W.

Win Here

Ce el

PAGE THREE

'Baseballers Seek 6th

Tomorrow

By JIM PRESSLY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's high-riding baseball team takes a five-
game winning streak and a 2-1 Southern Conference
record into Saturday's loop contest here with West Vir-

ginia.

Coach Tom Stevens commented this week that the
Mountaineets have “one real good left-hander” (Paul
Chuma) and a pretty good club. Game time is 1:30 p.m.

Monday, the Wildcats took a
doubleheader from William and

{Mary 7-3, 7-6, behind the iron-

man pitching of righthander
Dee Green. Green went the

, route in both games, allowing a
jtotal of only eight hits.

This is the second time in as
many years that Green has won
a twinbill from the Indians. The
1959 double victory amounted
to exactly half of Davidson’s
four wins.

The Wildcats now hold a 5-6
record.

In the initial contest David-
son garnered eight hits, . with
Green and Allan Millar collect.
ing two apiece.

In the second game (both
seven innings), Harry

with a triple and a home run.
His circuit blow came in the
last inning and closed the gap
to 65 in favor of W & M.
Then Richmond “Rat” Ruck-
cr, scrapping second baseman,
singled. Cecil Holcomb pinch
hit for Jerry Cole and both men
were safe on a field’s choice.
Pitcher’ Green sacrificed the
runners to second and _ third.
Rucker scored on a wild pitch
to tie the score at. six-all, Hol-
comb advancing to third,
Finally, shortstop Don Killian
executed a squeeze bunt which
sent Holcomb home with the
winning run. ,
Coach Stevens had much
praise for his sophomores —
especially his outfielders. “Our
sophomores have been doing a
good job,” he‘said, “and we can

have a good team if our defense

improves."

Outfielders Ed Hines and Har-

of .389 and .359 respectively.
Cline heads the team in runs
batted in with 16; Hines has 11.
Both are sophomores.

Dee Green is hitting at a 304
clip and Allan Millar is batting
an even .300. First-sacker Tom
Harris sports a ,297 mark. Kil-
lian (268) and Russ Cotton
(.250) are the other regulars
hitting above .250.

Green leads ’Cat hurlers with
three _ victorics. Sophomores
Nick Daves and Jerry Shelton |
share the other two.

All averages are correct
through Monday's games.

Outfielder Lou Jones reins
jured his ankle during Mon-
day's action and may be ground-
ed for some time. Remensbering

Lou's hitting as a freshman, the

varsity certainly can use him
if his ankle responds to treat-

ment.

West Virginia played its first
conference game this afternoon
at Furman, The Mountaineers’

star southpaw—Chuma—is the

only standout among five letter-
men. The entire infield is made
up of sophomores.

Chuma in 1959 won cight
games while losing only two.
His earned run average was
1.15,

West Virginia finished fifth
in the conference with a 16-9
record.

BULLETIN

The Hurricanes of Miami Uni-
versity, undefeated in 64
straight tennis meets, saw thelr
record stand firm here this
afternoon as they skunked the

that saw three school records
fall.

Next stop for the Wildcats is
Richmond, next Thursday.

In the varsity contest, power-
ful Furman lived up to its pre-

company silenced the Virginia Cavaliers early this week
in tennis 6-3. The Charlottesville university can’t seem
to do anything right, sportswise.

and Bill Eckbert, who grabbed even the conference mark when
a blue ribbon in the two-mile the ‘Cats go to Richmond this
run. coming Thursday.

The freshman meet was a Whittle didn't know much
lop-sided affair with the baby about the Spiders’ record this
Paladins clobbering the 'Kit- year, but said that “they have
tens, 86-35. However, Sterling the same type team as we

he “will be very disappointed if
we don’t win.”

ry Cline are leading the Wild- Wildeats, 9-0. Miami ranks nunv
cats at the plate with averages ber one in the South.

‘meet billing as a definite con-
tender for Southern Conference
laurels this spring by downing
a scrappy Wildcat team, 76%
to 63%. The Paladins. took ten

... And A Debate

There was some discussion Wednesday about a dead-
heat finish in the Davidson-Furman track meet. In the
220-yard dash the Wildcats’ Ed Kizer and Furman’s entry
made the most of a leg battle all the way to the final
string. If you will observe the lower photograph on this
‘page; you may be able to see the imprint of the string on
Kizer’s arm. It looks as if Kizer is ahead. But the string
also touches Furman’s man—on the chest—and he won.

serene anes ampenmey somes 8+

>

first places, while the ‘Cats
nabbed five. There was also 2
tie for first in the pole vault.

Since Furman was a heavy .-";
favorite, everyone on hand ~
seemed well pleased with the
Wildcats’ fine showing, A few
of the Davidson men who put
on outstanding exhibitions are
as follows:

Ed Xizer, who finished sec-
ond in the 220-yard dash with a
time of 22.8 seconds, and was
runner-up in the 100-yard dash;

Stuart Nickles, who set a new
school record by hurling the
javelin 196’ 1%" and grabbing
first place in that event;

John Huie, who tied for first
in the pole vault by setting a
school record of 12’ 4%", and ,
who finished second in the high |
jump;

Furman’s two-mile relay team is currently ranked
seventh in the nation, according to latest NCAA statistics.
Team members Bobby Lloyd, Charlie Phillips, Thad
Talley and Jim Martin set a 7:47.6 mark recently in the
Florida relays. Drake, Kentucky and Kansas State are
the top three two-milers. Michigan is eighth and LSU
ninth behind the Furman team.

s s s

The Miami Hurricanes, here today for a tennis
tangle with the Wildcats, were. going after their 65th
straight win. Anybody wanna bet they didn’t make it?

SOFTBALL, TENNIS NEXT

ATO’s Win Volleyball
Title With 12-0 Mark

The ATO’s added the finish- Final standings showed the Kappa Sigs, the SAE’s silenced
ing touches to a perfect volley. Betas and the Pi Kapps dead- the Sigma Chis, the Phi Delts
ball season yesterday with a locked for sixth place with 66 laid it to the Sig Eps, the KA's
victory over the Sig Eps. The marks, the Sigma Nus eighth sank the Independents and the
champions compiled a 12-0 rec- (5-7), the Kappa Sigs, the Sig Pi Kapps beat the Phi Gams,
ord. Eps and the Independents ninth Also, the Sigma Nus romped

Softball action starts Tuesday. (3-9), and the Pikas and the over the Betas, the ATO’s de-
And Wednesday should see ten- Phi Gams twelfth (1-11). feated the Sigma Chis, the Kap-
ais getting underway. Complete results Monday pa Sigs fell before the Phi

These two sports will com- through Wednesday are as fol- Delts, the KA’s whipped the
plete this year’s LF competition. lows: he ATO feated SAE's, the Sig Eps rapped the

The Phi Delts, who retired Monday—the ATO's defeated Phi Gams and the Independents ;
the LF trophy in. 1959 after a the SAE’s, the Sigma Nus clip- outplayed the Pi Kapps. Monday in Charlotte.
three-year championship reign, ped the Sig Eps, the Indepen- Wednesday—the Sigma Chis! This past woek saw the David-
finished second to the ATO's in dents took the Pikas, the Pi won over the Pikas, the Phi/son team handed successive de-
volleyball with a 10-2 mark. | Kapps beat the Betas, the Sigma Delts clipped the Sigma Nus,|feats by North Carolina and

In a three-way tie for third Chis downed the Phi Gams and the ATO's ran over the KA’s,| Wake Forest. Paced by Ed Justa
place are the Sigma Chis, the the Phi Delts, won out over the the Phi Gams suecumbed to the/and Bob Galloway, the Chapel
KA’s end the SAE’s, each man- KA's. Kappa Sigs, the SAE's felled the | Hill crew won by a 23% to 3%
aging a 9-3 record. Also, the Sigma Nus ripped Pi Kapps and the Independents'score at the Charlotte Country

Six sets ended the roundball the Kappa Sigs, the Pikas cost took the Sig Eps. Club on April 8
action yesterday. In addition to to the SAE’s, the Betas whipped Also, the Betas blasted the
the ATO tilt, the Sigma’ Chis the Sig Eps, the Sigma Chis Phi Delts, the KA’s trounced WAKE IS TOUGH
whipped the KA’s, the SAE’s dunked the Independents, the the Pikas, the Sigma Nus clout-| On April 12 the ‘Cats were
downed the Kappa Sigs, the Phi Delts clobbered the Pi ed the Phi Gams, the Pi Kapps} downed by a margin of 16% to
Betas tamed the Phi Gams, the Kapps and the KA’s took a win were victims of the ATO's, the 9% at the hands of host Wake
Independents lost to the Sigma from the Phi Gams. Kappa Sigs beat the Indepen-iForest. Davidson was paced by
Nus and the Pi Kapps took the Tuesday—the ATO’s stomped dents and the SAE’s routed the/strong Verner Stanley and con-
Pikas. the Pikas, the Betas topped the Sig Eps. rsistent Tom Johnson, who be

man’s entry grimaces as
opponent — Davidson's Ed

fo eeeremme ees seeee mmemmerene oe femmes

ey

PAINFUL FINISH—In the 220-yard dash, Fur-

he clips the string. His
Kizer — appears more re-

faxed. However, Kizer lost the 220, finished second in
the 100-yard dash. (Photo by Wells).

Furman Golfers Strike
’Cats Today, Monday

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

tween them accounted for 8
of the Wildcats’ points.

Also, this afternoon the Dav-
idson freshman golfers went up
against the team from Eact
High in Charlotte to inaugurate
their season. Said Coach Tom
Scott, “This is perhaps the
strongest group of golfers we
have scen in quite awhile, and
they should shoot some out-
standing golf for us this year.”

The freshmen will face Myers
Park on Tuesday and meet

Wake Forcet on April 26,

Netters Meet Duke Here Tuesday;
Wildcat Rackets Rattle Deacons

By MEL McKENZIE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Duke Blue Devils, who
challenge Davidson’s netters
here Tuesday, will “wage a
tough match,” said Davidson
Coach Ted Keesler this week.

The Wildcats wrought a 6-3
victory over Wake Forest Mon-
day and were scheduled to play
Miami, ranked number one in
the Soitth, here this afternoon.

On Duke, Keesler said, “They
have that necessary depth.
They’re good down to the num-
ber six position. Number one
man is only a sophomore and he
took that position from a man
who'd held it for two years.”

SLOW START

Monday, after a slow start,
Davidson out-swatted Wake For-
est. Finley Lee in the number
one position dropped his sin-
gles. Doug Orr went down un-
der the toughest of competition,
the Deacs’ Bil! Cullen.

Then senior Harry Broome
came through with a 5-7, 6-0, 6-1
match, Southpaw Andy Sherrill
tied the score at two-all with. a
winning match. Jim Hamilton,

This afternoon the Davidson golf team faced the Furman golfers in Greenville,
South Carolina. The Wildcats will meet the usually-strong Furman team again on

Coach Scott also stated that
he expected varsity golfing for-
tunes to rise since “this warm
weather has let us get in some
practice and cut down on
scores.”

After their encounters with
Furman, the ‘Cats will meet the
Citadel team at Mid-Pines on
April 23,

A return engagement with
Wake Forest in Charlotte on
April 26 will be the Wildcats’
only other match before the
Conference Tournament on May
2 in Mid-Pines.

cats’ second shot at the Tar-
heels this season. Earlier, Dav-
idson was skunked in Chapel
Hilt, 9-0. 1

On May 4 the netters travel
to William and Mary for a
match. They remain in Wil-
liamsburg, Va., for the Southern
Conference tournament. May 5,
6, and 7.

number five, and Stephan
Young, number six, drew vic-
tories,

Lee and Orr dropped the first’
doubles match to Cullen and
Jim Duffy. But Broome and
Sherrill, Young and Bobby
Snead snatched the last two
doubles and copped the matches
for Davidson.

After Duke comes the Uni- Defending champion is
versity of North Garolina, next George Washington. Davidson
Friday. This will be the Wild- finished second in 1959.

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for 5...

PIZZA |

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

BERMUDA
SHORTS

Chinco & Cords ......  ._..._... 4.95
Dacron & Cotton Plaids ... $5.95—$8.95
India Madras. _..-__. _. .__.. $9.95

Rush Wilson, Ltd.

