THE “EXTRA” DANCE WEEKEND: A Belk resident disgustedly vacates to
who may not have a losing season after all .. And at Hattie’s, the lull before the storm.

make room for the girls... Coach Bill Dole talks strategy with a tense gathering of his come-back Wildcats,

TODAY’S SOCC
SCORE:
‘CATS 4, VMI

ER

1

Ch

“THIS COULD BE THE
SOUTHERN CENTURY”

e Davidsontan =

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. XLIX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1960

NUMBER TEN

Council Removes Court
From Chapel Activities

The Student Council voted Monday night to remove the Court of Control from
Instead of punishing freshmen by calling them up
before the student body, the Court will discipline according to the seriousness of the
offense with the maximum penalty not to exceed more than two weeks restriction to |

all chapel activities next year.

the campus.

Furthermore, the Council
voted to extend the time limit
of the Freshman Regulations
until the Thanksgiving Holidays
next year. The  Freshman-

* *
THE “NEW COURT”

In the past two weeks, the
Student Council has recom-
mended the following changes
be made in the Court of Con-
trol:

—The posts of Freshman Ad-
viser and Judge of the Court of
Control are to be combined.
The new Judge-Adviser will be
elected by the rising senior
class.

By JIM WILLIAMS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Sophomore Field Day is to be
held of the
first freshman grading period
If the the
sophomores the regulations will

within six weeks

freshmen. defeat

withdrawn,
The
strike from the Constitution the
clause that no member
of the Student Council or of the
Honor Court can be on the
Court of Control. The student
body will vote on this later this
year. The student body will
also have to vote on a motion
to let next year’s Student Coun-
cil select the Judges of the
Court.

be

Council also voted to

saying

Bailey, Pietenpol State
Views On Drinking Rule

:Pietenpol: On-Campus
Parties Are Better Idea

By KNOX AERNETHY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

and John Ricks

John Packer, who will act as
head of the delegation, said,
“This is a unique program,
North Carolina being the only}
having such assemb-
Thirty-four North Carolina
are. sending delegates
to the assembly, he said

Each schoo! will preseat a bill

state an
Ly.”

lleges an BR —C , ’
college Dean J. C. Bailey and Dr. C. J. Pietenpol. chairman of the Faculty Committee on

Fraternities, met with the editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN on Wednesday afternoon
to discuss the problems of after-dance parties and drinking at Davidson

before the © assembly dealing

with either state or national. is In opening the discussion Dr. the new fraternity facilities, ra- Council members are required
sues. The .Davidson delegation Pictenpo!l stated that there had ther than in a rented viace off to take, saying that they will
will be meeting during the next been a committee of trustees to, campus turn in any person they see

}

this problem for the las

or four yéars, and that, a

they have had nothing de
to report

studi under the influence of alco-
hol, when the students taking
the oath do not believe in en-
forcing such a rule and go to
extremes to keep from seeing
intoxicated students?

@: What are your feelings
on the proposal which would
permit students under the in-
fluence of alcohol to return
to the campus as long as they
did not create a disturbance?

few days in order to prepare a/
bill for presentation,

Poetry Publication

three

vel

finite
Dr. Pietenpo! pointed out that

it is extremely difficult: to get

—The Court of Control has  !" further action the Council 1 agreement on where the college — Dr. Pietenpol: I would op Dean Bailey: 1 personally
been removed from chapel. selected delegates to the an- auds Pruitt Work stands: on this issue, because “pose such a change. because I would not enforce for vers send

—The regulation prohibiting nual North Carolina State Stud- feclings vary from considering do not see how it can be en: a rule which I did not believe
freshmen from walking on the ent Legislature, a mock politi- The National Poetry Associa- drinking ‘immoral. or-a sin to foreed An intoxicated person in.’ Now, these rules are “ihe
grass has been abolished. cal assembly to be held in the tion recently announced that believing that ‘the problem. returning to the campus. will in- and can only be chan Pry by

—The regulation requiring Notth Carolina Senate andj), poem, “To His Last’ Mis hould be completely ignored terrupt normal’ proceedings. in the Student Body not by ‘the
freshmen to attend all home House chambers in Raleigh, De- trent.” by: Bill Peulit ae F : by the. college Finally, Dr..the dormitory, and 1. would Student Council orth faculty
athletic contests has been ember 8-10. ' , ’ ae aes, eet ee Piclenpel underlined the dang- consider uch a change as mov- and if this is the situati n th n
changed to require only those Davidson has been allocated ®*" accepted for publication er of the present system by, say- ing our standard back: We have the rule ought to be chan d.
freshmen who are on campus [our seats in the House of Rep- '” the Annual Anthology of Col- ing that it was almost a matter to draw the line somewhere rhe: real question is whethet
to attend. resentatives and two delegates !ege Poetry. The announcement of time until some student, driv Q: Would it be better for the Student Body will mapper

—The maximum punishment in the Senate. Serving in the Was made by Dennis Hartman. ing back to the campus under an intoxicated student to be the eniorcine of its rules eit
for violation of the regulations Senate will be Jack Taylor’and ‘ecretary of the Association the influence of alcohol, would in his bed on campus or for Honor Court. Now, it ha ‘been
is a two-weeks campus. Charles Rose. In the House will 1" commenting on the antho- have serious, accident him to be out driving around my observation that the Honor

—The period of effectiveness be John Packer, Tom Colvin, logy Hartman said, “This an ‘ Following these opening — trying to sober up? Court is no. stronger than the
for the Freshman Regulations R. Henry Moore and Richard thology is a compilation of the ALBERT C. OUTLER comments, several questions Dr. Pietenpol: In my opinion, group which éleets ‘it. 1 gather
has been extended until the Masline. Alternates will be finest poetry written. by the; were discussed by both Dr. if a student is driving after he from what students tell me. that
Thanksgiving holidays. Jimmy Gee, Henry McFayden college men = and women of ’ Pietenpol and Dean Bailey has been drinking, then he is support is not strong enough
=~ -~ ~ einer America, representing every econ S QC ure Question: Has there bee} responsible. I personally would for them to feel comfortable

sections of the country, Selec- a@ proposal to restrict all a fee] an obligation to do what about. it

Pledge Class Leaders
Air Soph Rush Views

In a meeting last Thursday at the Alpha Tau Omega
Fraternity house, a group of fraternity presidents
gathered to discuss aspects of Sophomore Rush. In other
Sophomore Rush developments, pledge class presidents
prepared a questionnaire on pledge activities which was
distributed to all fraternity pledges.

At Thursday’s meeting, Tom offer suggestions. on improving
Covington prepared plans for the pledge program. They will
an assembly program to be pre- discuss their programs in the
sented next Monday. The presi- light of Sophomore Rush. IFC
dents plan to outline improve-
ments they have seen in their
four years at Davidson, and to

McGeachy Returns
To Limited Duties

After spending nearly two
months in a Charlotte hospital,

speak briefly.
Presidents of this
pledge classes have also been
holding meetings on pledge
\training problems. A question-
inaire was sent to all fraternity
| pledges last week asking
| pledges to estimate the amount
of time they spend on fraternity
activities, and to evaluate the

2 ities y iven
Dr. J. A. MeGeachy, professor | HIP a esa
of ancient and middle ages his-| te. ’

tory, has returned to Davidson.
He plans to resume most of his) Rick Smyre, acting chairman
classroom duties immediately. of the group and president of

McGeachy entered Presbyter- Kappa Alpha’s  pleége class,
ian Hospital in late September hopes that the results of this

with a herniated disk. During) poll can be tabulated during the |

October he underwent an oper-| coming week.
ation and has been recuperat-- The pledge class presidents
ing since. |are: Woody Danenhower, ATO;
Professor F. W. Johnston John Spratt, Beta; Rick Smyre,
- has been teaching History 13 KA; Mac Morris, Kappa Sigma;
and Professor B. D. Thompson Staff Warren, Phi Delt; David
has been teaching History 11) Lopp, Phi Gam; Bob Bost, PiKA;
and 23 in place of MeGeachy Hubert Bell, Pi Kapp; Tommy
this semester. |Stafford, SAE; Dick Hastings,

McGeachy’s

tions were made from thousands ter-dance parties to the camp-

I could to keep a student from

President Jerry Cole will also |

year’s |

On Tuesday, November

Dr. Outler was educated at
Wofford, Emory, and received
his Ph.D. at Yale. After minis
tering to Methodist.churches in
his native Georgia for eight
years, he embarked on a dis-
tinguished career of teaching
) at Duke, Yale, and Southern
Methodist. University, where he
jis presently Professor of The-
| ology.

| He has delivered lectures on
endowed foundations at Ober-
lin, Virginia, Texas Christian,
and Vanderbilt.

Kamm Recovers
From Auto Wreck

Bert Kamm, 19-year-old for-
eign student from Argentina,
who was injured seriously in
an automobile accident Oct. 29,
; will be released from Charlotte
Memorial Hospital in about 12
| days.

Kamm, riding in a car driven
by junior Harold Fisher, suf-
} fered multiple cuts and bruises
‘and a break in his right leg
| above the knee when a drunken

The literary festival also|driver swerved into the left
featured novelist. Elizabeth | lane on Highway 21 near Char-
Janeway. The Hollins College |lotte and smashed Fisher's car
English department and Gra-| head-on.
|pheion, literary honor society,, Having

BILL PRUITT

of poems submitted. We con-
gratulate the students on this
honor.”

Pruitt also received a similar

honor on November 12. He was
one of seven student writers
from Virginia and North Caro-
llina colleges and universities
whose poems were selected for
lreading at a Hollins College lit-
lerary festival.
Randall Jarrell, poet and lit-
|erary critic, and poet James
‘Dickey heard the poems and
‘then offered criticism to the
|student writers.

undergone surgery,

weak condition Sigma Nu; Doug Heidt, Sig Ep. | co-sponsored the symposium to|Kamm is recovering with a pin off ‘Perspectives

Brings A. C. Outler

29, at 7:30 p.m. the second

of the Otts Lectures will be presented by Dr. Albert C.
Outler. He will speak-on “Christology In A. New Key.”

As an author, Dr. Outler has
written on a wide range of sub
jects including Psychotherapy
and the Christian Message, The
Christian Tradition and the
Unity We Seek, and St. Augus-
tine. He is currently writing a
biography of John Wesley

Dr. Outler was a delegate to
the Third World Council. on

Faith and Order in Sweden and
is now serving on the commit
tee of the same name for the
World Council. of Churches. A
member of Phi Beta Kappa, he
is also serving on the National
Council on Religion in Higher
Education

in the
James

Following Dr. Outler
Otts Lectures will be Dr
I, McCord, Dean and Professor
of Theology in Austin Presby-
terian Theological. Seminary
Dr. MeCord will speak, March
7, on “The Recovery of the Per-
sonal.”

To complete the 1960-61 lec-
ture series, Dr. Joseph Sittler,
a member of the University of
Chicago faculty, will speak on
Violence and Meaning.” Dr. Sit-
tler will lecture here April 17.

Harvard's Paul L. Lehmann,
who appeared here on Novem-
ber. 1, delivered the first in
the Otts series. His talk on
“What is a Christian Act?” led
in Contem-

may not allow him to resume Sigma Chi has not yet elected which students from 20 nearby in his leg. He welcomes visitors | porary Theology,’ topic of this

‘> all his classes. | officers.

|colleges were invited. to his room—No. 406.

‘year's series.

us?

Dr. Pietenpol There
been no specific proposal of that
type voted on: by. the ‘faculty
however... this © possibility has
been discussed. 1, personally,
feel that it would be better to
have the parties ‘on campus in

driving while he was intoxicat-
ed, but I. feel that the
sibility for his: driving
the student and not
college

Q: How do you propose to
deal with the aath which all
Honor Court and Student

‘Straight Comedy’ Sparks

has respon-
on

the

is
on

Next Vagabonds Program

By RICK von UNWERTH

Davidsonian Staff Writer
The next production of Vagabonds will be a presen-
tation of four separate plays. The two-hour program will
include Ring Larciner’s. “‘Tridgett of Greva,” and three
one-act comedies. ‘The program will be presented on three
nights: Wednesday, Nov. 30, Thursday, Dec. 1, and Fri

day, Dec. 2. :

This production will mark
the Vagabonds first attempt at
straight comedy this year. Ac-
cording to W. F. Goodykoontz,
adviser to the Vagabonds, each
of. the one-act comedies will be
a complete play, not a reading.
“These plays were selected for
their humor,” said Goodykoon-
tz, “and all three are very fun-
ny.”

“Tridgett of Greva,” by Ring
Lardner, is an “allegorical, phil-
osophical, metaphysical, roman-
tic, erotic tragi-comedy.” Hans-

Poison, and Petrefaction,” a
satirical melodrama. Kay Gross
plays the feminine lead as Lady
Magnesia, and Neal Bushoven
will play the lover, Adolphus
Shari Brawley, a North Meck-
lenburg High School student, is
the maid, Phyllis.

The cast also includes Walter
Bost as the husband, Forrest
Roles as the policeman, Hans- |
ford Epes as the doctor, and |
Pat Douglas as the landlord.
The angels will be played by |
Bob Phillips and Vance Taylor.

tgoes back to 1837.

Dr. Pietenpol: I would. ques
tien Honor Court member
taking an oath to turn in per
sons on campus who are under
the influence of alcohol
out intending to do so
Q: If the faculty enforced this
rule rather than the Student
Government, do you feel that
it would inflict greater pun-
ishments? :

Dean Bailey: I think that if

man were tried before the
Executive Committee for drink-
ing, that he would probably be
suspended from college. How
ever, I think that if the faculty
took enforcement of this
rule, passed a harsher sen
tence man who had been
tried sentenced by the
student government, that. it
would ruin our student-faculty
relations

Q: Do you see any strong
support of the rule as it now
stands?

Dean Bailey: As. far asl
know, the only cases that have
been reported in the last two
or three years, have been turn-
ed in to me by Mr. Linker, In
the two. years, only one
student, to my knowledge, has
reported a violation of this
rule. They were predominant-
ly reported by Mr. Linker.

As the meeting drew toa
close, Dean Bailey briefly re-
viewed the history of the drink-
ing problem, which, he claimed,
He stated

an

with

a

over
or
on a

and

past

ford Epes, co-ordinator of the
‘Vagabond staff, says that “the
cast for this play is to be kept
secret, for security reasons.”
Dr. Goodykoontz will direct
_the first of the comedies, a G.
|B. Shaw play entitled “Passion,

The second comedy, “If Men/|that the present situation has
Played Cards As Women Do,” | evolved over the years, and
is a drawing room farce featur-| that now the time has arrived
ing Benny Coxton and directed | When we must decide whether
by Professor Gross. The cast|drinking has become so com-
includes Dr. W. O. Puckett and | monplace that we ought to mod-

(Continued On Page Four) ify the rules.
