FC Approves ’60 Greek Week Rulings

It is inconsistent with the fraternities that violate the IFC plans to have a ban- intended skit to the IFC by

BY BOB MOORE re-initiation gractices prior any day during this week Any pre-initiation prac-

Davidsonian Managin o or during Greek Week. and pledge activities will tice prior to or during ideals of organizations dedi- above regulations.
Editor one GREEK WEEK RULES be terminated by 9:00 p.m., Greek Week which incurs cated to principles of honor McK EIT HEN COMMENTS

Greek Week will begin at Monday, by 10:00 p.m. physical harm, interruption and brotherly affection that

At its regular Monday 6:00 p.m., Monday, March Tuesday, Wednesday and of regular classes, personal they should lend themselves . :
night meeting the Inter- 14, and end 12:00 midnight, Thursday, and by 12:00 p. -humiliation or punishment to exhibitionism which dis- ings IFC President | Ward Fraternity Committee. The
fraternity Council passed Saturdey, March 19. m. Friday and Saturday. (either private or public) or credits not only a single McKeithen stated, “These banquet will be in the old
the following rulings which No Greek Week activities The pre-initiation cere- any other generally dis- fraternity, but the frater- regulations shall govern dining hall of Chambers.
pertain to any fraternity will begin until 7:00 a.m. monies will be of «a con- tasteful practice which nity system a8 a whole. fraternity pledge class ac-

: bythe Interraleraity Coun of the college of fraternity cub a wntene detaied during “Greek ‘Week, and
Wildcat Club Prexy Defends

: 8 e
Davidson Athletic Program

cil. Each fraternity will is prohibited. The following outline of all Greek ek any fraternity guilty of ‘ : ¢ .
participate in at least one are prohibited: road trips, activities ‘o an “ew “by violating any of these regu- fraternity officer will ad
constructive project. All egg throwing, forced eating, March 7 for approval. lations shall be subject to group.
practices shall be consistent mud wallows, croaker sack fine. The IFC strongly de- PLEDGE SKIT
with the Greek Week regu- wearing (any required ap: Violations of the above sires activities in keeping There will be a pledge
lations as stated below and parel must be approved by rules shall be reported to with the Greek Week spirit class skit night on Thurs-
shall be conducted in ac- the IFC), excessive calis- the IFC. Fines ranging up and, unlike in the past, in- day, March 17, at 6:00 p.m.
BY B. MILLNER cordance with the ruling of thenics, and excessive drill- to $100.00, depending on tends to enforce all regula- in Chambers Auditorium.
‘ the national fraternity rul- ing, use of brick or rock the seriousness of the of- tions.” Each pledge class must sub-
Davidsonian Sports Editor ings of each local chapter. sacks. fense will be imposed on Monday, March 14, the mit a written script of its
(Editor’s Note: This article is the second in a
series of four investigating the relationship between
subsidized athletics and the academic program.)
Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow, °16, is a prominent Char-
lotte surgeon, vice president of the Board of Trustees,
and a member of the trustee Executive Council. He is a
representative on the college Athletic Council, president
of the Wildcat Club, and a staunch—and vocal—sup-

pledge classes,
presidents,

specifically for Greek Week
crientalion and a national

re Hautdsontan

quet for the fraternity Thursday afternoon. The
fraternity skit night will be open to
Greek Week the public. The time limit
Regarding the above rul- chairmen and the Facutty- for each pledge class skit
will be between five and ten
minutes.

President McKeithen stat-

The banquet is designed ed, “The IFC Greek Week
regulations have been set

up in tne light of the belief
that this is a week designed
to promote a pledge class
unity. We also believe that
the relationship between
the pledge classes and their
respective fraternities can
be strengthened through
collective activities of a
constructive nature.”

porter of athletics at Davidson College.

In a DAVIDSONIAN inter- an increase if it were financial-
view last week, Dr. Sparrow ly feasible. At the present, I
willingly dcfended the athletic do not think that it is financial-

VOL. XLVIII

Ch

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1960

NUMBER EIGHTEEN

‘program. and its place at
Davidson.

Q. Are you satisfied with
the present athletic program
at Davidson College?

A. Yes and no. I don’t think
you can answer that question
in just one way. I was not satis-
fied with the results we got in
football and basketball. On the
other hand, as a whole I think
that Davidson has worked out
a very sensible athletic pro-
gram.”

Q. Can you justify a subsi-
dized athletic program on a4

ly feasible; therefore, we're
just going to have to go on on
the present outlay of alumni
gifts. We give. as many scholar-
ships as we can under the sys-
tem and unless we get more
Money, we can’t increase ath-
letic aid.” .

Q. Would you be in favor of
resigning from the Southern
Conference?

A. “I certainly would not.
That would be a very bad move
for Davidson to make. It would

be quitting and I can’t conceive | ~

of Davidson just giving up and

Great Issues Series Slates

Summit Discussion In April
Noted Guests To Debate

admitting we can’t take it. .

“And if we did get out, who | “
would we play? Lenoir Rhyne?
Eastern Carolina? Wofford?
Why they'd rip us apart. They
ean hold their own with most
of the Southern Conference
teams as it is. Getting out of
the conference isn’t going to
solve a thing.”

Q. Would you be in fevor
of doing away with football,
or in allocating the football
scholarships to basketbell
and the minor sports?

A. “I would personally be
very much opposed to Davidson

liberat arts campus?

A. “Unhesitatingly yes. Why
not? Many a boy with good
grades and athietic ability needs
to get an education. That boy’s
got a distinct asset in his ath-
letic ability. Why shouldn't he
be allowed to use it to help
him get an education?

Dr. Sparrow also maintained
that athletics play an import-
ant part in a liberal.arts educa-
tion, commenting that “every-
thing you get out of going to
college isn’t going to come from
between the pages of a book.

Q@. Would you favor an in.

Variant Foreign

By ZACH SMITH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

,

~

neabenge UNEG TATE CENCUUH

aM

oesaenes ANRGRES cere vee cerareee

the same week.

AREAUUEUHRUAUED TNGEEDE VRE

AUNNRRVEGCVOU GO: MARDEDEE QUEEF
UEURDDEOADEODGS eneueaye neveused
‘ponepueaepnenetse SUIeRees CObFETES

positions on the panel which

will lead the discussion have ° that week.

Policies

The Great Issues Committee this week announced as its program for this
semester a discussion on the summit conference scheduled for May. The main
program is planned for April 13 and two other coinciding programs will be held

«

Dr. Paul Marrotte, chairman have these men available for program.
of the Great Issues Committee, classes and for further discus-
said today that three of the sion on Wednesday and Friday financed by the administration

“This program is being

and has its enthusiastié sup-

crease or decrease in athletic giving up football. My own » been definitely filled. The Great Issues Committee, port,” said Dr. Marrotte. “We
scholarships? feeling is that the knowledge é composed of students and hope it will receive the support
A. “I would definitely favor (Continued On Page Four) y — STATE DEPARTMENT — faculty, was organized last of the student body and become
i The United States Depart- year. It has previously sponsor- an annual event, or even bet-
by # ment of State has agreed to ed a Great Issues in Economics ter, a part of every semester.”
* send a representative to ex- ——$$

plain the stand the United
States will take on basic issues
at the conference. He will also
discuss the aims of American
policy at the summit. The State
Department representative has
not yet been named.

Dr. John Snell of Tulane Uni-
versity, an authority on Ger-
man affairs, will present the|

Sweet Daddy Grace
Leaves Loyal Disciples

By TOMMY COLVIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of the Board of Trustees, is shown answering

Faculty Will Initiate
(Mobile Isotope Lab

The wing of the Davidson faculty concerned with

On Monday, January 18, 1960, 1 ventured into Howshi ting. See sto P
Charlotte to visit the funeral of Daddy Grace, the famed fen questions at last Wednesday's Westminster Fellowship meeting “(Photo by Well)
Negro religious leader who had died the previous week.| —

root Meet eee Sane co otudent Council Selects

point of view of both East and
West Germany. He will place

rostrate, babbling in “foreign tongues.” However, when reunification and the attitudes

arrived (2:30 p.m.) there was only a moderate crowd tion

spring the Oak Ridge Mobile Radioiotope Laboratory in
an effort to create a greater interest in atomic science.

particular emphasis on German| The date is May 9-20.

During this period, “a well. stitute of Nuclear Studies in

of ‘all Germany on this ques-jrounded series of laboratory 1958, and since that time sev-

experiments and lectures will eral more have been fashioned

which was very well behaved.

While I was there, I only en-
countered one show of violent
emotion. Charlie Rose, a fra-
ternity brother who shares my
interest in writing, had just
begun an interview with a
member of the “Just in Time
Nurse Corps,” when a short
Negro woman stepped forward
with her young child. She com-
plained loudly that she had just
been thrown out of the House
of Prayer, evidently for creat-
ing a disturbance.

“Pye been in there all day,”
she insisted, as Charlie and I
tried to avoid conversation with
her. Her eyes were very red,
obviously from crying. After
barging into a picture Charlie
was taking, declaring that she
deserved to be in a picture be-
cause of her loyalty to “Sweet
Daddy,” she dashed over to me,
threw her arms around me and
began to cry. Needless to say, I
felt somewhat strange.

A short while later, Charlie
and 1 were standing in 8 cor-
ner of the House of Prayer in
the midst of sn_ interview
with Elder Wynn of Norfolk.
1 had recd that Daddy Grace
had used a Dixieland band
in his worship services. t in-
quired why this music was
used.

“Daddy Grace brought us
life,” Elder Wynn replied.
“Music is essential to life. It
makes us live longer.

“Moreover, it relieves us of
sin. David used music to pull
evil from Saul. And look at
Psalms 149 and 150 — both
about praising God with music.
And God promised joy. Look at
Isaiah 57 and the 100th Psalm.
Music brings us joy and takes
the burden from our hearts.”

Elder Wynn returned his at-
tention to the gospel music then
being played, “Even though
Daddy Grace is dead, the music
isn’t mournful. Instead, it’s
joyful, We don’t sing dead

songs.”

After a moment’s consider-
ation, | had to admit thet he
was right. A young Negro
girl, backed by about eight
other Negro youths, was sing-
ing e@ joyful rendition of
“i've Got Daddy and That's
Enough.”

Elder Wynn, noticing my sur-
prise at the words of the song,
launched into a lengthy apology
about the role of Daddy Grace.
He emphasized the fact that
the followers were not interest-

ed in Daddy Grace as a person,
but rather in the message of
Christ which he brought them.

“Daddy Grace is like a can
of beans,” he explained. “When

you go to a grocery store. you
have to first honor the can to
get at the beans. But we are
not interested in the can. We
are really interested in the
“inner man.’ ”

' soon changed the topic,
asking if Daddy Grace plan-
ned to return to earth.

“No. The only thing he taught
us was to prepare for the com-
ing of Christ.”

At this point our conversation
was interrupted by an elderly
colored woman. She glared at
Elder Wynn and demanded to
know if he was an official in
the House of Prayer. When he
replied that he was the elder
from Norfolk, she turned to
Charlie and me. “I don't want
you to give any false reports
about Daddy Grace. This man
doesn’t know anything about
this House, and you'd better
talk. to one of our elders. I
don’t want you giving any false
reports.”

Charlie and I took this oppor-
tunity te excuse ourselves,
thanking Elder Wynn for his
cooperation, As we were de-
parting, he shouted us an in-
vitation to visit him in Norfolk
so that we could see the House

of Prayer there. Maybe we will.|Green twice voted to make a ing and the possibility of sec- ballroom following the concert.

New Elections Committe

The Student Council met Monday night to appoint the Elections Committee
and to discuss several other issues, including liberalization of the permanent ex-|The French spokesman will be

pulsion rule and after-dance parties.

— FRENCH EMBASSY —

The French Embassy has also
agreed to send a representative
to express the French views
and aims for the conference.

be presented, covering the basic
counting techniques and appli-
cations of radioisotopes in the
fields of biology, chemistry,
and physics.”

The laboratory course will

Jacques duPont, an attache ‘in| be open to eight faculty mem-

Washington.

bers and four senior science

after the original. .
This particular tab, which
conteins such instruments as
Geiger counters and scintilte-
tion spectrometers, is making
® tour through the South to
four year colleges that have
advanced science offerings,
but do not have a grsduate

tie, and silenced the protests ond semester rush. No action
by remarking, “I voted.” was taken on any of these mat-
ters.

' Nine members were present
at the opening of the meeting,
which did not constitute a

The Great Issues Committee | majors. The complete course
has also invited the British| will consist of an hour and a
Embassy to participate in the} half lecture per day for any-

schoo! in the sciences.
Dr. Hopkins, professor of phy-
sics stated that the main reason

Concerning the liberalization

quorum. Nevertheless, the or the permanent expulsion e . program, but no reply has been ene he is anterested. wn for the lab’s coming was for the
council proceeded with its busi- 16 th 1 voted (LOM ined Choirs received from them yet. Dr. cee Pere i. we purpose of “all the sciences
rule, the council voted unani- Marrotte is optimistic that the] twelve who are officially tak-

ness,

The council appointed one
member and an alternate to
the elections committee from
each fraternity. The same

mously to write down the new
rule. The main problems to be
resolved were pointed out, but
no committees were appointed
and no further action was taken.

Present Program

British will be represented. He
feels that they are probably
working out plans for the visit

The Sullins College Choir! before replying.

and the Davidson College Male| Interest has also been dis-/ a=

ing the course.

The first laboratory was de-
signed by the Special Training
Division of the Oak Ridge In-

recognizing the possibilities of
such training, with the possi-
bility of introducing radioiso-
topes into the field of physical
science.”

Chorus will present a combined |Playéd in obtaining an author-|§
concert on Tuesday, February ity on Russian affairs for the

system was applied to the

After-danc arties were
independents, until Secretary gi. usseg, an d Preen seid, |23. at 8:15 p.m. in the Cham- discussion.
D. G. Martin reminded the “The Faculty gave us a tittle |bers Auditorium. The same con-| — PANEL OF EXPERTS —
council: thet four indepen- rope this time, and we |ccrt wil be given at Sullins on} The program as planned by
dents were to be chosen, weren't required to sign the February 26. the committee will consist of
Halfway through the. elec: pledges.” Questions were | rhe combined chorus will questions being directed to the

present a sacred program, in- panel of experts. It is hoped
cluding the Schubvy vt a Mac Ml that these questions will then
CG.” Cesar Franck’ “750th lead into general discussions of
ae 5 thi various aspects of the summit
Psalm,” and a setting of “Once conference.
whee wee and Nation’ The night before the Great
“Koopie” Ku + soprano, aNd/iccues program, Hubert Alyea, |}
oogie” Kwon, baritone, will!, noted physicist, will speak
The only complaint about/be soloists. here on nuclear physics. He
Davidson students’ activities The Sullins all-girl choir will primarily discuss atomic
came Friday afternoon, whetlrrom Bristol, Virginia, has|and hydrogen energy, its mili-
Dean Bailey called Green. made _ several appearances on tary and peaceful uses and the
Bailey said the state police hadiine — payidson campus. They |implications of these uses.
reported cighty Davidson stu-| ang here last spring in a Ves:| His program will serve as an
dents were drunk and dancing | jor. service introduction for the Great Is-
in the road in front of Hattie's. . sues discussion. The ban on
It turned out that there had} The Sullins Choir alone will/nuclear weapons will be a
been an accident on the high-/also sing two groups of selec-|major issue at the summit con-
way, and the customers at]tions, including the “Gloria” | ference.
Hattie's had come out to watch/from Mozart’s “Twelfth Mass"|__ war CORRESPONDENT —
the excitement. and “Sheep May Safely Graze” Willi British
. by Bach. Donald B. Plott will jam Courtenay, a Britis
Rumors of a car and room lead the Male Chorus in a|¥@" correspondent, will speak
check for liquor were discount- : in chapel the morning after the
group of numbers by Leisring, .
ed by Green. Questions were Vaughn-Williams, Schubert, and Great Issues program. His talk
° ‘ will be focused on the general

asked about snowball vandalism, Carissimi
the interpretation of the gamb- ‘. reactions in Europe to’ issues

ling rule, rooms for alumni in] A reception for the Sullins|which are to be discussed at the
Belk Dormitory at Homecoin-/ girls: will be held in the Union conference.
The committee is hoping to

asked about the state police
keeping a close watch on all
the parties, but Green pointed
out thet the parties were not
registered. Therefore, the
college was not rosponsible
for the police alert.

tion, councilman Tom Parker
arrived late and @ quorum
wes present.

Appointed to the elections
committee were Pete Kellogg,
Billy Davis, Julian Pleasants,
Scott Puckett, Smitty Smith,
Tom Ridenhour. John Stone,
Stuart Nickels, Bob Jones, Kay
Kilpatrick, Lawrence Moore and
Frank Nye. Leslie Davis, Wal-
ter Clark, Ed Spivey and Bill
Ekbert were chosen from the
independents.

Throughout the election
there was discussion by the
council members as to wheth.
er the president could vote
to make a tie. When the
parliementarian was asked,
he replied that he didn’t
know. The DAVIDSONIAN
reporter was consulted, but
no one could resolve the is-
sue.

An Interior view of the Osk Ridge Mobile Radiol
Laboratory, which will visit the campus Msy 9-20, under ¢
auspicies of the Physics Depsrtment.

However, President Dee
