THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1961

~

j ALOOK AT...

SPORTS

By Bill Godwin

Polecats, Tomcats, Wildcats

IT’S PLAIN we've gotten more than we bargained
for in a basketball coach. Another feature of the many-
sided Mister Driesell leaked out this week. He's supersti-
tious. And aren’t we all? Before every game he digs deep
into his pocket, pulls out a tiny black plastic tomcat and
rubs it vigorously between his hands for good luck. The |
little black charm—Davidson’s answer to the space
monkey—he calls Mo-Jo.

ONCE, WHEN the Wildcats were on the road, Drie-
sell splurged and bought Mo-Jos for each of his starting
five. Another time, at home, Mo-Jo was missing and
Driesell sent out an all-alarms to his house to get him.
This is a far cry from last season, when Tom Scott gave

agers

For Va. Tech Invasion

Next week could be a big one, cagewise.
The Wildcats, winners of four straight games and

seven of their last ten, face

petition — three Southern Conference teams who've al- |
ready beat the ‘Cats this season

Furman.
Only one of the games will be
held here, but it’s the big one

his players the somewhat dubious title of Polecats and Virginia Tech. Earlier, Tech
let it go at that. defeated Davidson at Blacks-

‘ burg by a phenomenal. score,
Ballot Time In The Conference 105.59.

BALLOTS ARRIVED in the mail Wednesday for the
1961. All-Southern Conference basketball team. David-
son's Joe Markee has an excellent chance to make the
econd team. Bill Jarman is given an outside shot at the
juad. They rank one-two in almost every category: Mar-
kee, 298 points, 16.5 average and 168 rebounds; Jarman,
290 points, 16.1 average and 163 rebounds.

DRIESELL CALLS Markee ‘the most improved ball-
player on the sauad.-He’s improved more from the first
of the season than any other boy I’ve ever coached. .
if the Southern Conference had an All-Sophomore team,
Jarman would surely be on it.”

SPORTS BUFFS are calling Markee and Jarman the
‘Comeback Twins.’ After losing seven of their first
eight games, the Wildcats have worked around to an 8-10
record. The two players have been neck-and-neck in the
process. For instance, against VMI, each had 24 points
and 16 rebounds.

WITH THE All-Conference ballot sheet came a short
note that ended: “. . . See you in Richmond, March 2-4
1 hope).”” And it looks as if Davidson will be in the con-
ference tourney. The ‘Cats are eight in the loop standings
following a decisive 88-79 victory over VMI and the ninth
team won't participate at Richmond. George Washing-
ton is seventh (2-5), Davidson (2-6) and VMI (2-9). You
can view the tournament at a cost of nine bucks

Lammers And Lamentations

PLAYING THE faithful alumnus to the hilt, Bill Lam-
mers, Davidson biology professor, limped down to the
gym last Friday night (snow and ice irritate his war in-
jury) to take in the Davidson-Emory wrestling match.
Lammers was a matman in his own right at Emory. The
only hitch Friday night was that the match was held in
the afternoon. And, to top that off, Emory was smashed,
24-7. Lammers said he had checked the match time in
the weekly campus bulletin. He should have checked
THE DAVIDSONIAN—we had the ’Cats playing at
Emory.

FOOTBALL COACH Bill Dole already has five names
on the dotted line for next fall. Three are linemen, which
he most needs.

IF YOU want to see some good golfing for an equally
good cause, try the Clayton Heafner. Memorial Heart
Fund Match at the Myers Park Country Club in Char-
lotte a week from Sunday. The big names include pro-
fessionals Julius Boros and Mike Souchak and amateurs
Billy Joe Patton, Walker Cup Player, and Charlie Smith,
1960 North-South Champion and 1961 Southern Amateur
Champion. You can get tickets for $2.00 each from Lake
Byers at Tate-Brown’s, Verner Stanley or myself.

SIGNOFF: A UNC basketball cheerleader takes Duke’s
Art Heyman to court for alleged assault during the Duke-
UNC . While I'm not condoning a court battle, it
is noteworthy that other colleges have cheerleaders.

WOv SU aU at 4

Tom

Cliff Thompson is a unique
wrestler.

He showed little promise as
a sophomore. Now he stands as
Coach Charlie’ Parker's only

senior grappler—and team cap-
tain to boot. And finally, he has

sophomore
Wright in scoring, 17-16.
came on a forfeit last week.

Southern Conference 177
champ from West Virginia.

competed in three different 1¢ anyone can unseat him at

weight-classes. the tournament next month,
Thompson is our “Wildcat it is Thompson.

of the Week.” >

the 6-1, 180-
City, 8. C.,

ei

At this st
pounder from ie MAb 0 2 dew: in

Fans who remember ‘Cat up-
set wins over Wake Forest and
William and Mary in Johnston
Gym know. that it can happen
again Seles

Davidson continued its cur-
rent winning streak this week,
trouncing VMI, 88-79, and
making it two in a row over
Misenheimer.

Pfeiffer, 79-72, last night in

Bill Jarman topped Wildcat
scoring with 23 points, raising
his scoring average to 16.1. Joe
Markee mantained a slight lead
over his teammate (298-290)
with a 16.5 average as he scored
12. Jerry Bussell had 14

Davidson raised its
record to 810, while handing
Pfeiffer its 18th loss in 21
games. Both teams were dull
through the first half. The Wild
eats led 32-30 at halftime.

The ‘Comeback Twins”
Markee and Bill Jarman pac
ed the locals with identical to
tals of 24 points and 16 re
bounds. here Monday night
against the Keydets. Davidson
avenged an earlier defeat by
VMI (72-68 in Lexington) by
running up 88 points, 10 more
than its previous high of 78
against Richmond

Junior Norm Halberstadt of
VMI topped both teams with 27
points. Bill Shinn had 13 and
Jerry Bussell 12 for the Wild
cats.

The victory reversed the or-

season's

Joe

der of Davidson and VMI in a 77-49 score Monday. too. They got it by the skin of
- and the weaknesses in’ the . :

: their teeth, and. consequently

/ heavyweight divisions :
} a won ‘the meet: by one point

i j j Shoe seemed very ‘pleased

| é 7 ' ‘College Releases with the three outcomes. He

| : declared, “Things are really

5 7 § h dd j looking up. We have two more

pring C e u es meets before the conference

Coach Roger Thrift shifts
Davidson speedsters into high
gear training this week. Track-

For Big Five Next Week

‘| sprinting in the halls of Cham- ae Se. oe ae TATE- FLOOR
_|bers, while Dr. George Staples Spring Drills Set; ae ae der) ee BROWN

Jin the upcoming Big Five meet eight-game slate this fall an

Southern Conference meet at
1} Lexington, Feb. 25.

Play Three Loop Games Next Week 3

Feel Sassy With 4 Straight Wins

Tankers Take Two Of Three Georgia Meets

Lefty Begs Full House |

"Cats Claim Victories
Over Georgia, Emory

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

the season’s toughest com-

‘ All of them did a tremendous job,” Coach Dwight
jhoe commented about his tired swimmers, after they
had returned from a three-day trek into Georgia.

The Catfish had one of the busiest weeks in the his-
tory of Davidson athletic teams this week, as they swam
the University of Georgia, Georgia Tech. and Emory Uni-

— Richmond, VPI and

conference standings. The ‘Cats
jumped out of the ninth spot’
with a 2-6 mark, putting the |
Keydets, with 2-9 record, in

ae

their place. versity, respectively, on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednes-
day

The VPI game here next Beginn the Geors like to be,” he stated, “but the
Thursday comes between road \ ) | r the | i VPI meet
games with Richmond Tves- { 1 that de
day and Furman Saturday. 0.45 , hiearitirent

“I hope every student is out | t 47; a ( = ' lack -deptt
here for the Tech game,” Dav- | George Ga : ‘ i Emor 92-43. Th ' ne of the
idson Coach Lefty Driesell said | igs ho ( wit! és ' le rel teams © at
this week, lamenting total at-| SMASH EMORY dicatio f better thin ) the tournament.”
tendance of 1700 at the last come The Appalachian meet will
three games. “They had the ’ Against Tech, divin ensa. be here next Friday, February
gym filled by six o'clock the rapp ers ac tion Bill Whittington broke the 17, and it will be the last time
the geme dide’t stact lt 7-90." | old schoo! record of 178 points the Catfish perform at home

a bil a Lad with a 192-point performance oo —_——$ $$ —___—

The Gobblers will, parade a or irginia rip In the final event of the Em
foursome of high scorers: Chris lory meet, the quad wound up|
Smith, with a 20-plus average.
Bob Ayersman, Dean Blake and | By JOHN SPRATT [the .trip. with bang. . The
Bucky Keller. Tech ranks 11th | Davidsonian Sports Writer school’s. previous free-style re
in the nation in total offense The-Wildcat matmen head north next week for}|jay mark of 44.8 seconds fell.|

/ matches in Virginia with VPI and VMI lwhen Captain’ ‘Tom. ‘Hudgin

VPI has been ‘beaten by Rich-| But, even though the ‘Cats LeDoyen and Charlie Trask all] |
mond, Tuesday's opponent The |are fresh from a victory over managed 3-0 decisions in thei Bob MeDonald, Carter Mebane,
Spiders outlasted Davidson, 83 {Emory that evened their rec- bouts jand Barry Branch teamed up |
78, here last week. jord to a 3-3, Coach Charlie Par Ben McCoy captured an im-}to do the job in 44.13 seconds

ler's prognosis for the two road pressive 5-0 victory, while team However, the relay men must

“ heat ave 9 . or "
ein have to do.a better job | matches is somewhat dim captain Cliff Thompson wrest! fee) the world is unfair. They}
. » oO nor . | , ree ‘
eh : ae a Richmond,” } “VPI,” said Parker. “is strong- led to a 2-2 draw and Tom) pettered the new record against |
ion l ‘t ‘ ve ee oe he where we're strongest Wright won by forfeit. Ken Bar both Georgi nd Geor Teel
‘ > > " ” z ‘ ‘ Morelia, and Georgia ecn, |
iustle them to beat them and strong where we're ‘weak er met the lone ’Cat defeat ’ (
# 2 ee ee i ee 7 - ut those achievements. cannot
The Wildkittens go against | The rechme n, incide ntally are 0.5 , ie
VPI and Furman next week | “defending Southern Conference Wright presently leads the | be accepted since they lost both
i
in gomes immediately pre- champs. And VMI, though weak- -matmen in scoring with 17 | race
ceding the varsity clashes. er by comparison, will be by points, though Thompson is nud-) Shoe admits that the Tech
After five straight wins, the |; ® means an easy match -for: ging him bane - meet had him on. pins and nee-!
freshmen. were . defeated last | the struggling matmen Overall, Parker calls — this i a ,
night, 67-63, by Pfeiffer. They| Parker was pleased though year's team stronger than last ba re locals needed a vie
defeated Pfeiffer the first time | ml overly impressed with the year's, due largely to the bol- tory in the tree-style relay in
last: Saturday, 72-59, and took | 24-7 victory over a “not too otering in the lower weight de-| order to take the meet. But the
Presbyterian Junior College by | much’. Emory mat team Lin- partments; but he bemoans the | Yellow jackets needed that event

}ton Wray, Phil Brown, Butch loss of the such as Alex Porter

tournament, and they should

schedule for spring sports j put us at our peak,’ |
This year’s baseball schedule As for the tournament, the
is as follows: March 15, Cataw-|¥oung mentor looks to it with |
By MEL McKENZIE ba, there; March 18, Catawba,|@ gleam in his eye. “We're not
Davidsonian Sports Writer here; March 21, Pfeiffer, here |i" as good shape as I would
é : : . (double header); March 24, ee:

men have been working infor sprained ankle. Dave Gilmore | yampton Sidney, here; March
mally since early in January, (mile runner) is out of action 39 West Virginia, here; April
with their opener looming next this year as a result of a ski-| 3 Georgia Southern, there (dou-
Saturday. ing accident. Sterling Martin, | bie header); April 4, Univer-
Dr. Max Polley, assisting Co- of cross-country fame, is sitting | city of Kentucky, there; April
ordinator Thrift, directs indoor Ut the season. 5, Mercer, there; April 10, Wil-

Davidson today released its

BOB MOORE, injured center,
is caught in a trick shot by
Photographer Gene Wells.

A MESSAGE FROM

commands middle-distance ae Grid Game L | April 17, Georgia Southern,
The Thrift-Polley-Staples com- § OOM rere: April 18, Georgia South-
plex masterminds ’Cat chances’ The football Wildcats play an ern, here; April 20, VPI, here;
d| April 25, Belmont Abby, there;
e in less than a month they start | April 26, Mercer, here; April
| preparations. Spring drills have | 29, VMI there; May 2, Citadel,
been tentatively set by Coach | here (double header); May 6,
Bill Dole for March 6 to April | Richmond, there; May 8, George
15. ‘ Washington, there; and May 11, |
Davidson opens the season in| Wake Forest, here.
Charlotte against the Catawba The Davidson tennis schedule
|Indians Sept. 16. Then follow is as follows: March 27, the Cita-

UNIVERSITY SHOP

at Chapel Hill, Feb. 18, and th

SEE THE CLAYTON HEAFNER

MEMORIAL HEART FUND

Duke and Carolina are ex-
pected to dominate in the Big.
Five, a toss-up between the
two..Last year Davidson dipped

“Clift Thortipeon Deinonetreies Grip Te Costh Patkér

featherweight heavyweight
But five of Wright's points Thompson did not take him
down, someone explained, be-

Thompson has lost only te cause he was thinking in terms
Dennis Hoblitzell, reigning of saving the gym floor.

Thompson’s latest effort came workers I’ve ever had,” said
pres hore, pet Ovid, Parker. “He never misses prac-
tice.”

Forest. Staples expects at least
a fourth place finish this year
in the Tin Can Arena.

VMI should top the Southern
Conference meet. Last year the
Cadets tallied 69 points, a score
i indicating their depth strength.
| Staples prophesies in a cau-
tious vein improvement for the
"Cats at Lexngton. Chances are
that Davidson can shove West
Virginia into the cellar this
year.

Competition waxes rough
among The Citadel, William and
Mary, and Furman. But VMI
seems unshakable.

Returnees Roger Beebe (440),
Ed Kiser (100 and 220), and
Bill Eckbert (2-mile) foster
strength in the line-up. All told,
the Wildcats have eight letter.

division—against
Frank Copeland.

men returning.
“Strength location is hard to
Last year, at 167, he fin- |pin-point,” said Thrift. “Dis-

ished third in the conference.
So far this season, he’s wrest-
led at 177 and heavyweight.

“Cliff is one of the hardest

tance, however, might prove to
be our asset.” Thrift is hunt-
ing ‘for a 220-man in the ranks
of the team.

five Southern Conference tilts
one more than last year—and
Little Three games with Wof-
|ford and Presbyterian.

| The Wildcats will be 24
|strong in returning lettermen
ito try to better their 3-5 record
in 1960.

Oct. 7 Open Date

Oct. 14 Presbyterian - Davidson
Oct. 21 Va. Military - Davidson
Oct. 28 Richmand - Richmond
Nov. 4 Wm and Mary-Wms’burg
Nov. 11 Wofford - Davidson

The schedule:
Sept. 16 Catawba - Charlotte
Sept. 23 Furman - Greenville
Sept. 30 Citadel - Charleston)

| del, there; March 30, Michigan
| State, here; March 31, Furman,

there; April 8, the Citadel, here; Featuring

April 10, Duke, there; April 11, : “ :

“UNC, there; April 12, NC State,|| Professionals: Mike Souchak, Julius Boros
there; April 17, UNC, here; and others

April 21, Cincinnati, here; and
May 4, 5 and 6 will be the
'Southern Conference Tourna-
ment.

The Davidson Track Team has
| seven meets scheduled and they
are: March 22, Catawba, here;
April 8, Wake Forest, there;
April 12, Furman, there; April
15, Furman Relays, there; April
20, Richmond, here; April 25,
VPI here; April 29, Davidson
| Relays; and May 12 and 13, the
Southern Conference Meet.

Shell out fellows .

The 'Cats are plagued by scat-
tered injuries. Avery Burns
(220 and 440) is hobbling on a

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING
BEST

GOLF MATCH

Amateurs: Billy Joe Patton,
Charlie Smith and others

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1:00 p.m.
MYERS PARK COUNTRY CLUB
Tickets: $2.00 each. On sale at Tate-Brown’s
3rd Floor University Shop

Order Tickets from Verner Stanley, Bill Godwin
. . This is grand entertainment

For a worthy cause.
Take Your Girl and have fun.

LOOK YOUR BEST, YOU DO YOUR BEST!

