FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1961

w THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Sideline
Comments

By STEVE CLARK

A BLOW TO BASKETBALL

The recent basketball scandal involving some of the
nation’s colleges was a tremendous blow to basketball
coaches and athletes everywhere.

A thorough expose appears in this week’s
Illustrated, and inv re tell us there is go
come. One police offi commented, “Just wait until
it all comes out, it'll make 1951 (referring to the scandals
that year, when 32 athletes from seven colleges were in-
volved in 86 fixed games) look like peanuts.”

__ The thought of watching a fixed game makes us
sick. When we go to a basketball game, or any athletic
contest for that matter, we like to think that every con-
testant is giving it all he’s got.

_ Naturally, Davidson College is not involved. We
think this is worthy of compliment, and it is our sincere
wish that Davidson will never be involved in any such
business — no matter how big time we might get.

WHOSE FAULT IS IT

Just whose fault is it when an athlete who loves the
game in which God has bestowed him a tremendous a-
mount of talent, decides to affect the outcome of the
game by letting up? Does the answer lie in home train-
ing? Maybe it is the coaches fault. Or possibly the athlete
just hasn’t any scruples.

Of course, it is impossible to pin-point any one cause
for this heartbreaking tragedy. Most authorities agree,
however, that the majority of the blame should be placed
on the fixers. When some slick character sticks a fat
check in some college boy’s face, the check can’t help
— like a good deal for three or four missed field
goals.

Coach ‘Lefty’ Driesell jokingly commented this week,
“That’s why we lost so many close game. My boys were
shaving points.” He laughed, and continued on a more
serious note, “You can’t blame the boys. Most of them
are somewhat poor, and a thousand dollars looks awfully
good to them.

“The player doesn’t actually have to throw the
game,” Driesell explained. “All the bookies are interest-
ed in is the point spread, and if a team favored by fifteen
points wins by only three or four, they make money.”

LEFTY, A GOOD RECRUITER

Driesell is doing an excellent job recruiting thus far.
Every boy he is “rushing” has been an outstanding player
in high school, and, more important, a good student.

As Driesell says, “I’m not going after a boy unless
he’s a good student and can get in here.”

The young coach had six outstanding boys visiting
the campus last weekend. One was a 6-7 fellow from Ken-
tucky. Many sportswriters and coaches up that way rate
him as the best high school cager in the Blue Grass State
this season. He averaged around 27 points a game, and
is a sure-fire bet for All-State when that honor is an-

Big Ten Squad
Could Be Tough

By GEORGE PEPPER
Davidsonian Sports Writer
The Davidson College tennis team will face the net-
men of Ohio State University here tomorrow afternoon
in the season’s third match. It will be the first time OSU
and the ’Cats have mixed on the courts, and the match

promises to be a good one.

Co-captain Finley Lee agreed
with this and added, “The Big
Ten is generally a pretty strong
conference, and out of 20,000
students they ought to have a
fairly good team!”

The ’Cats themselves are look-
ing pretty good, according to
Lee, with the returning letter-
men under presure from hard-
hitting newcomers.

Doug Orr. and Lee, team co-
captains, hold down the numbers
one and two spots, but the re-
maining four slots are being
hotly contested by seven netters.

The squad has a busy sche-
dule for next week, meeting
The Citadel at Charleston on |
Monday; Michigan State, here |
Thursday; and Furman, here

Friday.

The Citadel is considered one
of the best in the conference,
with three or four outstanding
men coming up from last year's
freshman team. Michigan State,

another newcomer to the sche-
dule, should bring an impres-
sive team to the Davidson
courts.

In addition to Orr and Lee,
Nick Cooper, Andy Sherrill, Bob-
by Snead, and Stefan Young
should round out the top six
positions.

Last Saturday ‘Coach Semi
Mintz’s squad defeated Pfeif-
fer 8-1. With the two Pfeiffer
victories under their belts, and
considering the amount of prac-
tice the team has had, the net-
men should fare well in this sea-

son’s competition.

Phi Delts, Pi Kapps l ATO's “x on April 5, the ig secon mech, two il
Pace I-F Qualifying Meet

Redmond Receives
Most Votes For
LF All-Star Team —{ciement weather forced

IMAC president Mike Van rescheduled for this Mon-
Doeren announced the LF All-| Jay at 4 p. m.
Star basketball team earlier this! This past Monday I-F track-
week. Voting was conducted | sters qualified for the following

The finals of the intra-
mural track meet were sche-
duled to get underway at 4
p. m. this afternoon, If in-

Tuesday, and when all the bal-
lots had been counted, Hight
Redmond,: a KA senior, had re-
jeeived more votes than any
other league player.

Thus Redmond is captain for
this year’s I-F dream team. He
leads a host of good players,
which make up one of the most
powerful All-Star contingents
in Davidson history.

nounced. The word is around that the youngster is in-
terested in Davidson College.

Already signed and headed this way is Tommy
White, 6-5, 185-lbs., from Mount Airy, N. C. As a junior,

White had to share the spotlight with Mike Cook, who |

started for North Carolina’s frosh this year and is ex-
pected to step into York Larese’s shoes next season.

This season White had the spotlight all to himself,
as Mount Airy went undefeated for the second straight
year to be 3-A champions again. Although not a terrific
score (13 points a game), White is a horse off the back-
boards. He collected 450 during the season, 25 a night in
the state tournament. He was All-Conference, All-county,

First team

F—Ed Hines, 6-2 Jr., SAE

| F—Jim Fuller, 6-1 Fr., KS

‘aie ga Showalter, 64 Jr.,
Sx

G—Hight Redmond, 5-10 Sr.,
KA

G—Quinton Boyd, 60 Sr., Pi
Kapp

Second team :

F—Bob Denham, 6-2 Sr., Pii
Delt

F—Keith Fraser, 6-3 Soph., Pika

C—Lee Cory, 63 Sr., SAE

G—Tommy Hamilton, 5-10 soph.,
Beta

events: the 100-yard dash, the
220-yard dash, the 120-yard low
hurdles, the broad jump, the
shot put, and the discus.

Those qualifying in the above
events joined with all entries in
the 440-yard run, the 660-yard
run, the three-quarter mile run,
and the quarter-mile relay for
today’s finals.

Wake Forest
The Experts’

RAIN POSTPONES

MANY CONTESTS

-F VOLLEYBALL action continued this week. Here Pika tucky, Georgia Southern, and
RAY THOMAS backhands the ball as KA TOM GREEN leaps to Mercer

By JERRY TRAMMELL
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Among the other spring sports that attract attention
at Davidson College, baseball is making its yearly return
to the campus. This afternoon the varsity team was sche-
duled to take on the Hampden-Sydney team at 3 p. m.

Yesterday, the diamond men game with Mercer College.
dropped their second 54 deci- :
|sion, this one to Pfeiffer, who fe rng — hes =
vee pein posse eae in the ractice, and the Wildcats will
The ‘Wildeats have one other nave 2 busy wook mest week as
they prepare for the West Vir-

game before spring holidays, . °
and that will be a contest here ginia game and the road trip.
next Thursday against West

Virginia. Although _ little “|Rain Halts Track

; known about the opposition, the

Wildeats are expecting a tough |

| 2 os ae .
game, typical of West Virginia's Meet With Indians;
|athletic teams. Gametime is 2}

cS Reset For Tuesday

SPRING TRIP

| During the spring holidays the Though Wednesday’s sche.
Davidson men will be doing | dule called for a méet on the
' nore than just basking in the local cinders between Catawba
sun. They have scheduled a!and the local trackmen, sloppy

heavy slate of top-notch com-) weather turned out to be the.
|petition which includes Ken- only victor

Due to misty rain and over-
cast skies, the meet was resehe-

defend. KA’s won. (Davidsonian Staff Photo by Marty Lafferty.), On April 3. they meet both duled for Tuesday, March 28, at
Kentucky and Georgia Southern | 3:30 p. m

FINALS TODAY in a double-header at College April 8, the first Saturday af-

boro, Ga. The following day they | ter returning from spring holi

| will meet Georgia Southern a- days, the Wildeats journey to

In Monday's qualifying meet,
the Phi Delts, Pi Kappas, dnd
ATO’s placed more men in the
finals than the others..

Meanwhile, volleyball action
continued this week. Outside
games were called off Tuesday
afternoon, but inside competi-
tion went on. Wednesday, both
outside and inside action was
completed.

in Tuesday’s games, the

ATO’s stomped the Sig Eps,

the SAE’s beat the Sigma

Chis, and the KA’‘s downed

the Pi Kapps.

Wednesday's results were as |
follows: the SAE’s whipped the
Sigma Nus, the ATO’s beat the |
Pi Kapps. the Kappa Sigs clip- |
ped the Sigma Chis, the KA’s|

Win Was

Downiall

Wake Forest’s recent surge in the NCAA tournament |
was a wonderful thing for Atlantic Coast Conference

basketball so they said.

Go back to December 3, 1960,
though and you'll say it. was
even better for Southern Con-

All-tournament, and received the Most Valuable Player

award in the tournament.

G—Larry Leafer, 5-8 Soph., Phi ference reputations. That was
Gam the night Davidson College op-

ened its basketball season, and

STANLEY PACES OPENING WIN

Coach Charles “Lefty” Driesell
made his debut as a college

By MEL McKENZIE

Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson golf team will cross clubs again against
High Point College at High Point this Wednesday. Th
linksters are hoping for a second straight victory.

Monday, Davidson opened
with a big punch against the
same High Pointers. Captain
Verner Stanley, last year’s med-
alist in the Southern Conference
golf tournament, led the ‘Cats
to a 19-2 victory. :

Stanley defeated Stan Kin-
ney, 2-1, in match play and fin-
ished with a 72. The match med-
alist, Stanley ended the day two
strokes under Kinney. The rest
of the team all stroked around
78.

REBUILDING

Suffering from last year's
graduation, Coach Tom Scott
entered one sophomore and
four seniors. In a rebuilding
period, Scott is counting on
rookies Haywood Evans, Mims

for future reference.

Garland Kinney, 3-0 and Jim
Smith downed Larry Rogers,
3-0.

In combination, Stanley-Crute
defeated S. Kinney-Morris, 2-1;
and Dallas-MePhillips defeated
Beasy-G. Kinney, 3-0.

SHOULD 4MPROVE

Scott said this week, “I am
pleased with the results. The
match was encouraging, but the
boys’ scores should improve as
they start playing more.”

One of the highlights of the
1961 season is the Greenbrier
Invitational Tournament at
White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.,
April 1-2. The squad will see
action there during the Spring
holidays.

Scott has not yet decided on a
permanent lineup. “Some of
the boys, Dallas for one, won't
be able to make it up there be-

coach.

Incidentally, Davidson won
the opening game — beat some
team named Wake Forest, 65-
59.

That game caused the basket-
ball ‘‘experts” to throw away the
record books and start guessing.

But if you think that one
made the Southern Conference
glow, think how North State

tin, both seniors, seek spots on
the squad. However, Scott, look- |
ing to the future, wants to con-
centrate on his sophomores, |
since there are no juniors out)
for golf.

Following spring break, Scott |
and his men will travel to Cha-|
pel Hill on April 1, for a match |
with always-tough Carolina. The
next day will find the linksters

over in Raleigh, where N. C. & 5 -
State will provide th i- | eG DOP}. 7G
Sate will provide the pas p0°))-1961

D Club Initiates
Nineteen Members

The Davidson College D Club
initiated nineteen members
Wednesday night President Har-
old Bynum announced.

The following lettermen be-
came members of the club:
Chase Hunter, Larry Leafer,
Linton Wray, David Dakin, Bill
Jarman, Ben McCoy, Tom
Wright, Gordon LeGrand, Bob
Scales, Ken Kelley, Lou Zirkle,

,
\;

ans

> ¢

|
Conference fans felt three}

nights later when Catawba
edged Davidson, 54-52.

When that one hit the papers,
the “experts” quit quessing
and started flipping their coins.

But hold on, this research isn't
over yet. Imagine how the blue-
eyed, dark-skinned folks down
in eastern North Carolina felt
when Pembroke knocked off
Catawba sometime later.

When the wire services turn-
ed this one loose, the “experts”
flipped their coins at the Salva- |
tion Army Santa Clauses and |
retired to the securities of a
steady job.

ys No

0)

will be at Macon, Georgia

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

bombed the Pikas, the Phi Delts
edged the Betas, the Phi Gams
whipped the Independents, the

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.

Pi Kapps beat the Sig Eps, the CHARLOTTE
Kappa Sigs ‘stomped the Sigma WHILE ENJOYING
Nus, the ATO’s downed the | THE BEST

Pikas, the Betas nipped the
Sigma Chis, the KA’s clobbered
the Independents and the Phi
Delts topped the Phi Gams.

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

l"} AirKorce

Decidedly not. In fact most executive jobs are on
the ground. Of course, all officers may apply for pilot
‘and navigator training if they meet the eligibility,
requirements. There will always be a need for piloted
aircraft. And it is foreseeable that in your working
lifetime, there will be piloted spacecraft—piloted and
navigated by Air Force officers.

But right now, there is also a big future for college-,
trained Air Force officers on the ground. New and
‘exciting technical jobs are opening up. Important ad-
ministrative positions must be filled as World War Il
officers move into retirement.

How can you—a college student—become an Air,
Force officer? First, there’s Air Foree ROTC. Then
for college graduates, men and women in certain
fields, there is Officer Training School. The graduate
of its three-month course wins a commission as a sec!
ond lieutenant. Other ways are the Navigator_Train-
ing program, and the Air Force Academy.’

Some benefits that go with being an Air Force
officer. Starting salary plus allowances compare
with the average in equivalent civilian jobs. Then
there’s free medical and dental care, thirty-day vaca:
tion, the chance to win graduate degrees at Air
Force expense, and liberal retirement provisions.

No, Air Force officers do not need wings to move
up. There's plenty doing on the ground. Perhaps you,
could be one of these young executives in blue. Ask
your local Air Force Recruiter. Or write, Officer,
Career Information, Dept. SC13, Box 7608,
Washington 4, D.C., if you want further infor-|
mation about the navigator training or Officer;

(Training School programs.

| U.S. Air Foree

There’s a place for
professional achievement on thé
- Aerospace Team,

me

~~

United States Al Pores Ad No. NY 61-3037 Finished 2-6-61 Adset)
B&W Ad~S%” x 10” ‘

1525 Senior College Newspapers (Dept- No. SC13)—March 1961

Junior College Newspapers (Dept. JSC13)— March 1961
, JOHN & ADAMS, Inc., New York,
