FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1961

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE:

@ Sideline
Comments

By STEVE CLARK

HATS OFF TO TOM SCOTT

Tom Scott is a busy man these days to say the
least. Besides his normal duties as atheletic director here
at Davidson, Dr. Scott has been whisked up into the
wild and wooly world of NCAA basketball tournaments.

For the fourth straight year, Scott was chosen to head
the Eastern Regional tournament committee down Char-
lotte way. This is no ordinary job. Try selling 12,000
tickets to 20,000 people and you'll know about how Scott
feels now.

Then try arranging hotel accomodations for the St.
Bonaventure, Princeton, Wake Forest, and St. Joseph's
basketball teams, and you'll know even more about
Scott’s job. (Incidentally, a lot of hotels just don’t seem
to have extra beds around for 6-9 and 6-10 guests).

In addition, try answering your telephone (both of |
them) about once a minute, and explaining to some’
enthusiastic fan who wants to know, “Well, why in the

hell don’t you have more tickets!”

Then try arranging the program for the gala affair, |
the practice schedules for each team, and the million and
one other “small” jobs in running a tournament, and
you'll know exactly how Scott stands at the moment.

In other words, he’s a pretty busy man.

Scott and his committee have done a good job with the |
Regional affair. So good, in fact, that NCAA top brass is |
considering bringing the finals of the whole mess to
Charlotte next year.

these visiting giants. Visiting coaches receive sport coats, |
each player is alloted a number of tickets for family and |
friends, etc. As Scott told a Princeton official on the
phone Wednesday, “We're getting ready to show you
fellows some real Southern hospitality down here.”

Scott went to New York Tuesday for the Wake
Forest - St. John game ,and appeared on television at
halftime. TV announcer Charlie Harvel of Greensboro
interviewed him, and and kept beating around the bush,
just as we’re doing, when all he had to say was just
what we want to say, “Tom, you’re doing a helluva job.”

1-F TOURNAMENT

With the high pitched fever of basketball tourna-
ments filling the sports bull sessions these days, we'd like
to suggest something for the local scene.

For the past several years, two or more teams have
tied for the I-F basketball championship. Since each team
plays only twelve games, there is a real possibility that
every year will be a deadlock.

Since most people had rather lose than tie (those
with gambling blood especially), we'd like to suggest a
playoff between I-F co-champions, not only in basketball,
but in flickerball, handball, softball, and volleyball. If
three teams tie, let one draw a bye and meet the winner
of the other two.

Even better, why doesn’t the IMAC arrange an I-F
basketball tournament? The four best fraternity teams
from Wake Forest or some other near-by school could
come here and face our best four. Or all-star inter-fra-
ternity teams from several schools could be invited here

to meet our best. '

We think these suggestions have some real possibil-
ities, and should be looked into. Besides, Hattie’s would
make a killing!

Wright Cops AAU
Wrestling Title

“Fe’s the most improved man on our team,” Coach
Charlie Parker says of Tom Wright, the 123-Ib. dynamo
for the wrestlers this seasoii.

Wright, who came home from
the AAU meet in Raleigh last
weekend with a first place

LEADING SCORER
But he gained experience,
arid was the leading scorer for
this year's varsity. Naturally,

trophy in his division, is our
“Wildcat of the Week.”

FOUR PINS

Wright pinned all four of his
opponents on his way to the
123-lb. title in the annual Caro-
lina AAU wrestling meet. The
meet is open to anyone in North
or South Carolina, as long as
the entry is an amateur.

Having never wrestied in
high school, the strong little
sophomore from Richmond, Va.,
decided to try out for last year’s
freshmen team. He did and made
the team. However, last year was
a long one for Wright, who
didn’t find winning an easy
thing.

Parker is counting heavily on
Wright to pull the ’Cats up in

the rugged Southern Conference | ended the Kappa Sigs’ hopes jn the two doubles matches and G Pts. Avg.
the next two years. of tying for first by the resound- ¢|ipped Cooke and Louis Wyche,

Although the meet was not! ing score of 72-56. Five Fijis hit 21.18 and 21-19. Sledge and|{ 1. Tommy Hamilton, Betas 12 204 17.0
based on team competition, each{in double figures, Lou Zirkle yjainor were undefeated this|[ 2. Quinton Boyd, Pi Kapps 12 201 168
team keeps up wth its overall) highest with 16, as they ap- year. 3. Hight Redmond, KA’s 11171 «15.5
standing. Host N. C. State,/parently reached their potential Ry virtue of their basketball |] 4 jin puller, Kappa Sigs 11 170 15.5
which entered 24 men, finished'tgo late in the season. Fresh- success, the SAE’s extended steak eatin: ates “a. on
first; Appalachian grabbed ag one Jim Fuller and Mac Morris their overall lead for the LF | : ’ ;
ond; and Davidson was third. | paced the losers with 22 and 15. trophy. The Phi Delts are the | '

Other Wildcats who competed! ‘The Sigma Nus won their sec- gefending champions, and will) ~~ 3 ameter SSSR i aE RAE
in the two-day event finished as|onq game of the year by sur- have to do well in the four re- .
follows: Ken Barger (115), sec-| prising the Sig Eps, 44-42. Kerry maining sports (volleyball, track, SPORTS CALENDAR
ond; Sam Glascow (147), third;| Mauldin paced the attack with softball, and tennis) in order to
a linchea a tie Tian the trophy for the third)! TODAY — Tennis Pfeiffer, here
on” ee eo ay year in a row. TOMORROW — Baseball Catawba, here, 2 p.m.
me. Fo ig hae a ~d wl en gi The final basketball standings}| wonpAY — Golf High Point, at Mooresville
the trip. in 21 for the Delts. — TUESDAY — Baseball Pfeiffer, here, 3 p.m.

Hutton Barron’s 15 paced the WEDNESDAY Track Catawba, here
Sigma Chis. to a 44-31 thrashing FINAL 1|-F THURSDAY — Tennis Pfeiffer, there
of the Pikas, led by Keith gacversaLt STANDINGS FRIDAY — Baseball, Hampden-Sydney, here, 3 p.m.
Fraser's 12. | ss

Tommy Hamilton hit a 30-foot wiL SUPPORT THE ‘CATS
jumper at the buzzer to clinch . 0 3" 2 -_ .
the Betas’ 61-59 upset of the i oe
KA’s. Hamilton finished the upaponces age
night with 26, but had support Kappa Sigs — In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
from Bill Wallace’s 21 (18 in Sigma Chis - 9 3
the first half). mAs... 8 4 at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

Hight Redmond completed a Betas ....... 8 4
brilliant career for the KA’s by Phi Gams 8 4
dropping in 24. Independents _. 6 6

: HANDBALL Pi Kapps .. 48
* Pikas _.. 3 9

George Sledge & Tom Mainor me oa the famous OPEN KITCHEN
captured the handball champion- Sigma Nus
ship for the ATO's Monday after- Sig Eps - aa 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.
noon by nipping the Kappa Sigs. ATO's 0 12

‘4
°°

&

Mintz Makes
Debut As Coach

By MEL McKENZIE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Semi Mintz began a new career today as head tennis
coach at Davidson College. The ex-Wildcat star sent his
forces against Pfeiffer here this afternoon.

With only a week of practice,
the 'Cats pooled returnees Doug
Orr, Finley Lee, Andy Sherrill,
Bobby Snead, and Stefan Young
for the match. Last year, the

local netmen defeated Pfeiffer,
and were favored to repeat as
victors today. The netters go to
Pfeiffer this Thursday.
WIDE OPEN
“Positions are wide open,” de-
clared Mintz. “These lettermen
are being forced to defend their
positions.” Today's match was
expected to be decisive in this
respect. Sophomores Bobby Aus-
tell, Bill Beckland, and Fred
Lopp hunt for a spot.
In addition, Richardson schol-
ar Nick Cooper from England
has been declared eligible for

| varsity competion. Cooper has The
|had a great deal of tennis ex-| team opens its 1961 season Mon-
Scott and his men really roll out the red carpet for | perience and is expected to help} day afternoon at Mooresville
| against High Point College.

the ’Cats tremendously.
WIMBLETON ACTION

Cooper began playing at the | sters will -be seexing to find five
age of eight. He competed in the } new men to join conference

Junior Wimbleton matches for merialist
Verner Stanley in defense of the

During the coming week the | Southern Conference crown.

the title of Great Britian.

team will undergo round-rob-

bins. This type of practice is|specting qualifying scores this
expected to help Mintz learn| week to find Stanley's new co-

more about his personnel.

‘I want the very best men I
ean find playing at each posi-
tion,’ commented Mintz. The
young mentor plans to trim the
squad to nine men this week.

MINTZ EXPERIENCED

Mintz steps into his new posi-
tion with plenty of tennis savvy.
He played for Davidson from
1955-1959, and has worked sum-
mers as a tennis instructor at
the Raleigh Country Club.

The highlight on the netters’
schedule is the South Confer-
ence tournament the first week-
end in May at Charleston, S. C.

Golfers Open With
High Point Monday

Davidson College golf

Hurt by graduation, the link

and team Captain

Coach Tom Scott has been in-

horts.

DOUG ORR displays the backhand that has helped him be

Davidson’s number one tennis player and co-captain along

with Finley Lee

VOLLEYBALL

BEGINS

(Davidsonian Photo by Bill Wyche)

Unbeaten ATO’s Win Handball

The intra-mural winter
sports gave way to spring
activities this week as volley-
ball action got underway
yesterday. Basketball and
hand ball completed their
schedules, and final stand-
ings found the Phi Delts and
SAE’s deadlocked for the
basketball crown, while. the
ATO’s were undefeated
handball champs.

BASKETBALL

The last week of I-F basket-
ball games was typical of the
way the season went overall
Upsets and better balanced
teams characterized the league
this year, during which some
of the most thrilling contests
took place between the cam-
pus’s rival fraternities.

Monday night, the Pi Kapps
walloped the Sigma Nus, 57-21,
as high-scoring Quinton Boyd
poured in 20 points. Meanwhile,
the Phi Delts almost blew their
co-champion role, as the Inde-
pendents came on strong in the
second half, only to fall short,
33-31. The ATO’s forfeited to

the Kappa Sigs.
Tuesday night, the Phi Gams

AE’s, Delts Share Hoop Crown;

ATO’s TOM MAINOR (eft) and GEORGE SLEDGE (right) warm up for final match with
Kappa Sigs. They won, thus completing an undefeated season.

Kappa Sig Bob Cooke defeated
Sledge in the singles match,
but the Taus came back strong

Wildcat

By JOHN

ers Swat Pfeiffer In Opener Here Today;

ers Entertain Catawba Here Tomorrow
| 5-4 Nip Riles

SPRATT

Davidsonian Sports Writer

By an error and a tissue-thin margin, the ’Cat base-
|ballers were nosed out in their seasonal debut Wednes-

day by a 5-4 decision to Ca
Tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m

tawba College at Salisbury.
on home soi! the ‘Cats meet

| the victorious Indians in a return performance.

If Wednesday's game is at all (P-SS), Jerry Sheltor

|indicative, the Saturday match
should prove interesting. Trail
ing by two runs in the top of
the ninth inning, Davidson got
a lift from shortstop Harry
Smith, who jolted the game to
a 4-4 tie with a smashing triple

Moments later, in the bottom
of the ninth, an error at. third
base allowed the Indians to slip

across the game-winning run

However,
vens was not altogether dis- |
appointed with his team’s
first outing. Said Stevens,
“We're better along than last
yeor. The big difference today
was the hitting. We just did-
n‘t hit.”

Nevertheless, in Stevens’ be-}
moaning of the sparse hitting |
there was still an optimistic |

tone, confident of better things |

yet to come..

Even though the ‘Cats were
perhaps lacking in the hit de-
partment, the agile Wildcat de-
fense turned in three double
plays for the afternoon. “The
defense,"’ said Stevens, ‘‘was
better than usual better in-
field play.”

Stevens kept the bull pen busy
and his pitchers’ arms warm, |
trying three hurlers Graham |
Showalter, Nick
Tommy Hamilton
| innings of play each

Daves,

| Tuesday the

tain Pfeiffer here in the third
| game of their twenty-six game
| schedule. Only one game will
| be played rather than the
originally planned double
| header.

The freshman squad traveled

to Harding High School for their |

opener yesterday. Coach. Joe
|} Hunt named Earl Cole and Jim

| Moore as probable starting pit

| chers int believes he has a
}basketfull’ of good -hitters . on
j this frosh- unit. the most out-)
standing being Britt Smith John |
Baum, Rick Smyre, . Tommy

H. Hutchens,

Whiticy, and L

The varsity squad as of now |

is as tollows: Graham Showalter |

é

FINAL |-F BASKETBALL SCORING LEADERS

Coach Tom Ste- ;_

and |
in three |
j time of the Catawba contest.

|
locals enter-

COPYmONT © 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. COCA-COLA AND CORE

(P), Nick
Jerry Jacques (P),
Tommy Hamilton (f-OF), Harry
Cline ( Bob Gregory (C), Tom
Harris (18-+), Cecil Holeomb
(1B-OF), Tommy Tuttle (2B),
Paul Reynolds QB), Captain Russ
Cotton Harry Smith (SS),

Daves i

Ed Hine LY) Lou Metz (LF),
Allan Millar (CF), Hal Todd
(CF), Jerry Cole (RF-C), and

Carl Rust (RF)

Cindermen Run
Wed. - Cafawba

The track team is taking ad
vantage of the good weather to
its first outdoor
season with Cat
Wednesday,

for
the

her:

prepare
meet of
awba

March

on

99

Coach Thrift reports
that the team is improving but
needs to get into better shape
during the days before the
meet. He is counting on John
Sharpe, Roger Beebe, and Hugh
Murray to pest good perform.
ances in the 440-yarad run and
broad jump respectively.

Roget

Keith Fraser, a recent “ Wild-
eat of the Week,” has been hin-

dered in the high jump by a
pulled muscle, and Thrift is
hoping for him to have regained

his agility. in this event by the

At the Atlantic Coast con
i ference indoor track meet in
| Chapel Hill last Saturday, Fur-
}man walked away with the top

| non-conference honors, seoring
over forty points more than
second place VMI.

The Citadel, William and Mary
VPI, Davidson, and Richmond
followed in that order, Bill Bek
bert won the only Davidson
points by placing thirc in the
two mile race

As to the season's outlook,-

Thrift was hesitant to make any
predictions since it is too early
to tell how the 'Cats and other
teams are shaping up. “We'll do
all right once we get in shape,”
he added,

e-

Bottied under authority of
The Coca-Cola Company by

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord

Concord, North Carolina
