FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 1961

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

-ALOOK AT...

SPORTS

By Bill Godwin

Netters Have A Coach

DAVIDSON ATHLETIC Director Tom Scott an-

nounced this week the appointment of Semi Mintz (Da-}

vidson, 1959) as tennis coach. Now serving in the Army
at Ft. Jackson, S. C., Mintz replaces Ted Keesler, who
resigned after last season. He will assume his coaching

duties early in March, upon discharge from six months’ |

active duty. Mintz has been spending his summers at
home in Raleigh as tennis instructor at the local coun-
try club and has taken part in several amateur tourna-
ments in the immediate area. At Davidson he was out-
standing in both tennis and basketball, playing four
years in both sports.
Leader for the season 1957-58, hitting 105 of 119 attempts
for an .882 percentage. He was basketball team captain
his senior year. An outstanding athlete at Broughton
High School in Raleigh, Mintz attended the University of
North Carolina Law Schoo! for one year before entering
service. He will be at Davidson for the coming season
only, according to Scott.

A Stitch In Time

MAYBE IT’S none of our business and maybe it’s
just a coincidence, but we've noted a remarkable up-
swing in Wildcat basketball fortunes since the players
elected co-captains in late December. Seniors Joe Markee
and Jim Nuckolls are the lucky (and deserving) cagers.

Into Ti

Cagers Carry Two-Game
With Clemson Tigers Tomorrow

Mintz was the NCAA Free Throw }

It was the intention of Coach Lefty Driesell before the |
season started not to have a captain or co-captains al
that time, which is normally the time of election. When |
co-captains were elected, Davidson was dragging under a |
seven-game losing streak. The boys had been clobbered
the night before by East Tennessee State for the seventh
loss. The election took place shortly before the conso-
lation tourney game with North Texas State. Davidson
commanded that game and the game with Wililam &
Mary Wednesday night. There has been a noticeable
change in their performance, not only from the score-
board, but in attitude and hustle. Driesell, who, during
the East Tennessee State game could only say, “XXXX
isn’t doing a thing right out there—get in for him quick,
ZZZZ,”. and was calling his players “sissies,” turned
around this week and told the world, “Watch us!” It’s
noticeable. The men who before had a general on the
bench, now have a couple of sergeants, too. They're
looking like a rs now, taking chances, winning
games. This is not to say Davidson will win all its re-
maining games. But, mind you, it’s not to say we won't,
either.

Tournament Tidbits

459 2354) %
LAUREL, Mississippi, a city of 35,000, enjoying its
first annual baske tournament . . . One hotel, the

Pinehurst, where the play . bowling alley
Pine ccite endiioriamn, © as a bas-
ketball gymnasium, where the games were played...
The tickets, two bucks apiece for each t...A team
from North Carolina listed as Davidson U .. . A vendor
waving his wares — a fistful liscar Bowl
ducats . . . A Mississippi ¥ the low-

te, which lost to champion
int (Davidson defeated
e consolation game)...
located?” . . .

down on East Tennessee
Mississippi Southern by one
North Texas State, 72-59, in
“Coach, where is East Tennessee State
Reply: “In East Tennessee”...

More Of The Same

NOMINATION for most nervous player in the tour-
nament: Southern’s amazing little guard Roy Danforth,
chewing a tobacco-sized wad of paper which he removed
and fingered before every foul shot . . . Coolest player:
Again on Southern’s squad, 6-8 center Bill Lundberg, a
pregame warm-up clown, sporting a duck-tail, Elvis
Presiey haircut... A sophomore, expelled shortly before
high school graduation for slugging the principal . . .
Had kind words for both referees . . . Southern, the only
“small college” in the gym, with a student body five times
the size of Davidson's, but with only half the brain-|

power...

South Carolina Tops
Davidson Freshmen

By JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer
The Davidson frosh basketballers, holding a 2-3 rec-
ord, tangle with the Bullpups from The Citadel in the
preliminaries next Saturday night on the homecourt.

In their latest match, the tent show of talent and poten-

The official looks intently as Davidson’s Harry Brown attempts to get a leg hold on his

Duke opponent.
UNC, 23-10.

“BIG WEEK” HERE

The Blue Devils won, 14-13, but the ‘Cats came back the next week to wallop

Davidson Wrestlers Put
2-1 Record On The Line

By CARL RUST
Davidsonian Sports Writer
Davidson's wrestlers, despite

pre-season gloom and a crip-
pling injury, have pinned down
a 2-1 record, which they will
try to protect here next week-
end during a three-day scram-
ble with The Citadel and West
Virginia.

The ’Cats will meet The Cita-
del at 7:30 p.m. Thursday. On
Friday night the Mountaineers
and Bulldogs will clash. Then
Davidson will hit West Virginia
Saturday afternoon.

“BIG WEEK”
Davidson Coach Charles
Parker calls the whole affair
“Big Week.”

Said Parker this week, “The
Citadel and West Virginia are
much stronger this year than
last and we will have to wrestle
mighty well to stay on the mat
with either team.”

After an opening victory over

Davidson - Carolina margin.
TOP STORERS
At this juncture, Tom Wright

I-F Cage
Action Is
Delayed

The Intramural Athletic
Council Wednesday night vot-
ed to postpone all basketball
games until after the examina-
tion period.

Pre-Christmas basketball re-
sults not yet reported in THE

DAVIDSONIAN are as follows:
Thursday, Dec. 8 — Kappa
Sigs 48, SPE’s 25; SAE’s 49, Pi

|Kapps, 35.

| Monday, Dec. 12

SAEs |

(123)) and Ed Peel (130), both
sophomores, are tied for top
spot in Wildcat scoring with 12
points each. The lone senior
on the squad — Cliff Thompson
—has 11.

Davidson won four events in
the Carolina match:

Tom Wright drew with Len-
don, Ed Peel pinned Willhoit
in 4:44, Ben McCoy (147) de-
feated Gilmore, 50, Butch Le-
Doyen pinned Lowery in 5:44,
and Cliff Thompson defeated
Slover, 8-2.

Citadel Picked To
Top Riflers Here

Coach Jim McCurry, whose ;
rifle team has won three of its
first five matches, expects de-
feat in tomorrow's clash with
The Citadel here.

“The Bulldogs normally shoot

Pfeiffer, 23-11, Davidson drop- | 52, Pikas 27; Sigma Chis 26,\ eight or nine men in the 280's.

rtbreaker to Duke
here, 14-13. The absence of
Jim Alexander (177), who

out for the season with a brok-
en elbow, was evident.

ped a hea

is

'Phi Delts 25; Kappa Sigs 42,|
{Pi Kapps 29; Phi Gams 46,
ATO’s 17.

Basketball standings, to date,
find the Kappa Sigs and SAE’s|
tied for first place with 20!

We have only three 280-shooters |
at best,” he said.

Davidson travels to Wofford |
next. Friday for a three-way |
match with Wofford and P.C. |

Winning Streak

‘Cats Seek To Avenge
Last Year’s Narrow Loss

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College basketball team, riding a two-game winning streak, trav-
els to Clemson, S. C., tomorrow night to battle the Tigers of Clemson College, and
then returns to'the Palmetto State Monday night for a game with the Erskine Flying
Fleet :

| On their homecourt Wedne Despite the 3-7 record, Drit aused the ‘Cats to biow leads
| day night, the. Wildcats came se!! still hopeful—and for as high as eight points
lalive on one of their early-sea- go00d reasot He eéxpiained Driesell continues to shuffle
son weak points free throws W could) have easily won his lineuy-in search of the best
' Reaching back for some of that ame we have lost except mbination The latest new
inspiration which made Semi VI He clar mer to the Starting five is
Mintz the NCAA free throw fied this statement: by point- Haywood Evans, who Driesell
leader in 1957:58, Davidson hit out that the ‘Cats have had a. describ the best outside
26 of 29 attempts at the foul md half lead-in every gam¢ joter on the team

line in taking reveng on i VPI and East Tennesse I to the N. Texas
reeling ‘William & Mary squad er mistakes 1 quad elected .Jde Markee
54-45 I a free’ thyov have tim Nuckolls as cs $

Behind for only fleéting

moment early in the first half
the Wildeats pul. or emi
ifreeze for the final 11° minutes
jof the game and stifled the In-
dians’ struggling offense

Joe Markee led the scoring

drive with 16 points. Bill

| Jarman had 13. Every player
shared in the free throw per-

formance: Markee 6 of 7,

Jarman 5 of 6, Jerry Bussell
| 2 of 2, Danny Carrell 5 of 6,
Jim Nuckolis 2 of 2 and Hay-
wood Evans 6 of 6.

Davidson committed — only
eight fouls in grabbing its first
Southern Conference victory
after four losses, one to Wil-
liam Mary, 54-49. The Wild-
cats now are three and seven
with 13 games to go.

In every aspect, the clash
with Clemson shapes up to be
a real thriller. Virtually the
same Clemson quintet that nip-
ped the ‘Cats in the Charlotte
Coliseum last. year awaits the
vastly improved Wildcat cagers,
seeking revenge for last year's
66-60 heart-+-- ker.

Like Davidson, Clemson
tacks an outstanding big man,
and consequently relies on

speed, good bali handling,
and accurate shooting.

The best example of the above
characteristics is the Tigers’
All-Conference guard, “Choppy”
Patterson, a real sharpshooter,
whom the ‘Cats must contain
if they expect to maintain a
clean record against Atlantic 4
Coast Conference opposition.

Erskine, another Catawba, is
a team the ‘Cats should beat.
However, they defeated David-
son twice last year, and must
not be taken lightly. won, 34-45.

Prior to the Christmas holi-|

days, the 'Cats dropped games | | WILDCAT OF THE WEEK

to VPI, 105-59; Catawba, 62-58; |
William & Mary, 5449; and Mi k Shi k F

Furman, 61-52.
During the holidays Coach |

Our “Wildcat of the Week” is what every coach

dreams for——a real competitor.

Davidson’s Joe Markee (24) gets a shot away despite an
attempted block by Bob Harris of William and Mary. Davidson

Lefty Driesell and his cagers
journeyed to Laurel, Miss., for
the Laurel Invitational Tourna-

ment. In the first game, East
Tennessee State downed the
hustling Wildcats, 83-71, who}

bounced back the next night to
drub North Texas State, 72-59,
ending a seven-game Davidson
losing streak.

In the tournament, the
‘Cats seemed to find the scor-

He’s not the tallest man on ing. streak Markee and For-
the court (6-4), nor is he bless-
ed with natural shooting accur

But he’s a workhorse and

ward Jim Nuékolls were elect-
od ed co-captains. Then, just after
s thé North Texas State encount-

ing punch they had been js currently leading the basket

lacking. They averaged 71.5 | pall Wildcats in rebounding and ©": Markee was named to the
points a game, due mainly to | scoring. All-Tourney team. He collected
the fine offensive show by Joe Markee, a senior forward 30 rebounds during the two

Joe Markee, who made the \from Durham, tips the scales
All-Tournament squad. at 192 pounds. But the weight

In addition, Bill Jarman, Jim | doesn't hinder him at all when
Nuckolls, and Danny Carrell) he goes up to shoot or rebound
played good ball. Carrell hit | Markee can reach 11 feet on a
six out of seven from the floor) running jump and 10°8" from a

nights and had 36 points.
Though he is equally ef-
fective on defense, he leads
the Wildcats in scoring with
146 points in ten games, or a

‘Kittens were beaten by South tial have well distributed the
Carolina’s frosh, 83-69. Terry
Holland, 6-7 center, carried a
losing load with 30 points, in-
cluding 12 fields goals.

He was the game’s leading
scorer, as South Carolina put
five players in double scoring
figures. Davidson’s Lyman Dil-

lon netted 13 points.
The Kittens trailed 41-32 at

high-scoring laurels. Terry
Holland, Lyman Dillon, Bill
Beerman, Howard Arbuckle
have all claimed the honor thus
far. Coach Joe Hunt tabs his
team “a good, hard-working
group.

“Overall,” he said, “they are

doing a real good job and
should have a good season.”

However, the ‘Cats snapped records, followed by the Betas,
back with an upest via — Independents and “KA's, each | CAGE BOX
powerful North Carolina, 23- with 14 matks. wam G FP T
10. Their performance shock- | Th see : Cohen 5 35 5 13!
ed everyone, Parker included. a = cage “— “3 records | Vaughn 1°02 °3 2)
A big part of the victory be-| 2° a. oes and | Gooding 1 1 24
longed to the sophomores, with |5!#m4 Chis. The Phi Delts. |p orgey a oe
whom Patker rested his wrest-|Sigma Nus and SPE's follow | i -kerson 5 00 1
ling case before the season. |. ome gr each, and the | sume 2 00 0 ‘|

IMPRESSIVE FOES jae" and Pi Kapps have failed Harris 1 ia Ss

Next week's opponents pre- | win in two outings each. | seaherte 0 00
sent a gala array of talent. In overall standings, includ- | Cowley 0 00 0 0
West Virginia, which last year | !ng flickerball, wrestling and woolum 0 00 00
compiled a 9-2 record, has two swimming, the SAE’s lead the poraLs 20 5-9 20 45)
Southern Conference cham- | second - place KA's by almost) pay. 2 OF
pions on the current squad. | 100 _ points. The complete | Sernian 4 56 313

The Citadel defeated David- | standings: | Markee § 67 1.16
son last season, 18-13, as they| SAE’s (wrestling champs) | Bussell 1°22 0.4
racked up a 6-1-1 mark, and) 391, KA’s (swimming champs) | Carrell 1 $8.2 7
the Bulldogs are undefeated in| 294, Phi Delts 285, Betas 269, | Nuckolls 0 22 1 2
two matches with N. C. State | Kappa Sigs (flickerball champs) | Shinn 1 00:0 3
and Carolina this season. Duke | 262, Phi Gams 243, Sigma Chis |.Evans 2 66 110
has beaten both Davidson and |292, SPE’s 214, Pi Kapps 211,| Cannon 0 00 0 0
The Citadel by one point. The|ATO’s 173, Pikas 161, Inde-| Moore 0 00 0 0
Bulldogs clipped the Tarheels, pendents 150, and Sigma Nus/ Martin 0 00 0 0
21-9, about the same as the | 131. TOTALS 14 26-29 8 54

I

TRIM CHRISTMAS FAT

did a fine job rebounding.

Prep For The Citadel

against N. Texas, and Nuckolls | ctandstill

“Markee has probably im-
| proved more than anybody
else on the team since Oct.
15,’ said Coach Lefty Driesell.
“And he’s one of the better
players in the conference—
a real good competitor.”
Shortly the
ition tournament game

before consola-

with

14.6 average. His latest ef-
fort netted 16 points as Da-
vidson whipped William &
Mary here Wednesday.
Markee's shooting form daz-
zled the fans in Laurel, Miss.
He leaps high before getting
his shot off, lifting himself
above the defenders, and lets
the ball drip off his fingertips.
He hasn't been blocked on an

By AUBREY LANCASTER

halftime. They hit 21 of 29 HOLLAND WORTH 40
foul shots. Hunt looks for Jerry Tram-
BEFORE XMAS mell and Mike Payne to keep

improving the board strength
and expects “a couple of 40-
point games” from Terry Hol-

The ‘Cat rookies met their
second defeat in a 90-77 loss
to the University of South Car-

olina December 17. Frosh vic- land.
tories have been scored over He spoke highly of Lyman
the Furman freshmen in a 71- Dillon, brightly anticipating

bigger things from him.
“Hunt also announced that
Tonight the Wildkittens trav- Bill Beerman has received a
eled to Wingate for a re-en- sidelining shoulder injury.
counter with the junior college Present plans call for Ben Cox-
Bul ; fill in Beerman’s posi-

Idogs
The freshmen with a consis- tion.

68 match, and over an outclass-
ed Wingate by a 72-60 tally.

Davidsonian Sports Writer

This coming weekend the
Wildcat swimming team re
sumes its schedule after the
holiday break here at David-
son facing The Citadel on Fri-
day and William and Mary on
Saturday. Each meet will start
at 4:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym-
nasium.

In The Citadel Meet, the
Cats will be facing one of the
top contenders for the confer-
ence championship.

Says Coach Dwight

Shoe,

“Those boys really have a team
this year and are strong all the
way down the line.”
Commenting on William and
Mary, Shoe says, “This should
be a good meet, they are
strong in their distance events
and in diving but are not par-
ticularly well-balanced.
“Getting back into top
form after the holidays will
be our biggest problem.”
Before vacation, the Wildcats
ran up a two and one record
in three meets. Davidson beat
Clemson, 61-34, and South Car-

olina, 63-31, before falling to a
powerful V.M.I. team here by
a 61-36 margin.

V.M.1. has won the Southern
Conference title for the past
four years and is a strong bet
to do so again this year.

Singled out by Coach Shoe
as doing outstanding work
were George Gable, Tom
Hudgins, and Barry Branch.
The latter two have approach-
ed previous records that they
have set at Davidson.

Also this weekend, the Wild-
cat freshmen team, winner of

one meet in two oufings, will
face The Citadel. The fresh-
men have a strong team paced
by Buddy Hollenbeck, whom
Coach Shoe tags “one of the
best swimmers we have. had
here in recent years.”

After the William and Mary
meet, Davidson will face V.P.I.
at Blacksburg on February 3
before making a swing through
Georgia to participate in three
meets. The Southern Confer-
ence Meet will be held in Ft.
Eustis, Va., on March 9.

the 'Cats in a seven - game los-

outside jumper all season.

—— >

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

’

