FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1961

Sideline
Comments

By STEVE CLARK

NEXT YEAR'S SCHEDULE

FOUR of the eight games on next year's footb
schedule are slated to be played on the Yocal gridiron,
Besides the usual opener with Catawba (which may be
played in Charlotte pending installation of a new lighting
system in Richardson Stadium), the Wildcats will play
host to William & Mary, Furman, and Richmond, Wil
& Mary will be our Homecoming foe.

The same teams that were played this year will be
played again next season, but the order of the schedule

as been somewhat rearranged, i p
1962 football schedule en FeMtatively, here is the

Sept. 15 — Catawbo, HERE
22 — The Citadel, Thera
29 — Wofford, Thore

C2)
7

Oct. s Te yterian, There
— William and Mary, HERE
20— VMI, Thero (Homecoming)

27 — Open date

3 — Furman, HERE
10 — Riehmond, HERE

The 1963 schedule finds Wofford being dropped

from the schedule and replaced by Lehigh. Indications
are good that a yearly sertes will continue with Lehigh,
a small Pennsylvania schoo! in the Middle Atlantic Con-
ference. Another member of that conference. Lafayette
(located in Easton, Pa.), will be played in 1964 and 1963.
Also, there 1s a good -possibility thal Colgate, an Inde ;
Pendent. Ivy League-lype school in Hamilton, N, Y,, will
e@ played in ‘64.

PENNSYLVANIA TURNS ‘EM OUT;
FURMAN GAME SHOULD DRAW

Nov.

IT SGEMS that Coach Bill Dole and his men are going . yeunz coach. termed as “condi- NC, poured in 3) points us’

to be facing quite a few Pennsylvanians in the nest few
years. Ilowever, we'd bet he almost got his fill of Pennsy!-
vania lads this fall. The rosters of William & Mary and
Richmond are loaded with boys from the Keystone State. ,
and seven members of the first team AJl-Conference.
were born and raised in—you guessed it—Pennsylvania.

EDDIE TEAGUE, head football coach at The Citadel,
was named Southern Conference Coach of the Year this
week. Teague completed his filth season at The Citadel,
and directed the Bulldogs. to their first conference
championship and a 7-3 record.

TF BILL JARMAN maintains bis current scoring
pace, he will certainly be one of the nation's tov scorers
this season. Jarman carries a 32.5 average to VMI tomor-
row night.

JOHNSTON GYMNASIUM should be flowing to the
safters next Friday night when Furman comes here for
a conference clash. That's the night before we pa home
for the holidays, and every student should make an
attempt to be at this game, We al] should have little if
no work to do that night. and the game will be a good
way to let off steam after this current period of reviews,
term papers, etc. While we're there, let’s make some
noise. We've yet to get even with the Paladins for their
one point victories in football and basketball last year.

THE DAVIDSONIAN oo
Grapplers Thump | ¢
Pfeiffer And Duke -
The Davidson wrestlers sub- b S .

duced thoir first two oppanants
of the scason, by dowining both
Pfoiffer and Duke by identical
scores, 17-11.

Results of last Friday's Pfelf-
fer match were as follows: 123-
Koodward (P) defeated Barger;
130:Wright {D) defeated Crumb-
ley, 137-West (P) pinned Brown;
147-McCoy (D) defeated Stokes:
167-Hand (P) defeated LeDoyen:
167-Mills. (D) defeated) Albie:
177-Aloxander ()) defeated
Asher: and heavy-Walls (D)
pinned Goodner,

Yesterday's Duke match went
as follows: 123-Dow (Duke) de
feated Barger, 5-2; 130-Dornelly
(Duke) pinned Wray; 137-Brown
(Davidson) defeated Johnson,
7; 147-MeCoy (Davidson) de- ”
feated Politi, 0-4; 157-LeDoyen
(Davidson) defeated Morris, 4-1:
167-Stane (Duke) defeated Mills,
#6: 177-Day (Davidson) defeat-| first two games. Jarman takes

ew *

-| ed Lomer, 40; and heavy-Walls| temorrow night as the cagers seek their first win. (Davidsonian

(Davidson) pinned Menge. Photo by Joe MeCutetoan)
This coming Tuesday night at
7:00 the wrestlers tulce on ruy-
ged North Carolina here on the
local mats, Coach Chorlie Par-
ker regards the Tarheels a8 “s
lot tougher than Duke,” but says
the real test comes next Friday
afternoon ut 3:00, when VM1 In-
vades the campus for a bout...
Outscoring two All-Amert-
cans the (irst two games of
the season. Bil Jarman, our

‘Catfish Drown
Tigers, Teachers wildest of the Week.” ss

Coach Dwight Shack’ swim.) 50M to say the least.
mtg team dunked their Sirst

Last Saturday evening. Jaor-
(wo opponents jn what

the: man, 2 6-5 junior from Gostonia

tioning mocts," The ‘Catfish Wake Forest's Len Chappell
clipped Clemson a week ago 1D manneed only 28. Playing un-
the local pool, 6431, and tNen der the boards with such fel-
vixiied Appaluchian yosterday | iiwg as Chappell (6-83,
for n 68-28 victory.

Bou
Woollard (6-10). and Bil Hull
(6:6), the vasy going redhead
still managed 9) baskets. 12 free
throws, and 10 rebounds.

First place winners in Ue
Clemson meet were Carter
Mebane (220 and 440-yard free

style), Barry Branch (50-yd.|  Potlowing that gamo, Couch

BILL JARMAN, 65 junior, has burned the nets in the ‘Cats

Jarman Outscores

2 All-Americans

PAGE THREE

VMi_ TOMORROW, GW MONDAY

ictory Starved Cagers
isit Conference Foes

Following two initial setbacks to two of ite nation's most powerful cage teams,
the Davidson Wildcats get back into their class at 8 p.m. tomorrow night, when they
travel to Lexington, Va., for a contest with their first conference foe—VMI.

Last Saturday night, Wake
Forest, the nations’ 3rd ranked
team, overpowered the ‘Cats
in Winston-Salem, 96-62. The
Deacons, seeking revenge for
last year’s loss, harassed the
‘Cats with a tight man-to-man
defense. and hit on more than
60% of their shots for the vic-
tory

JARMAN SHINES

Davidson's Bill Jarman was
the night's high scorer with 30
markers, 7 points better than
Wake’a highest man, All-Ameri-
can Len Chappell, who tossed
in 23.

On Tuesday night, Jarman
putscored another All-Ameri-
can, Duke's 4rt Heyman, by 35
ta 28, but the other Blue Devils
scored more then enough to
make up for the deficit as they
crushed the outmanned visitors,
117-72.

Tomorrow night's

Ls

a 325 scoring average te VMI

fray: is

wverago as a sophomore, and
may be in line far All-Canfor-
ence honors,

Frosh Seek Taste
of Victory Tonight

The highly touted Davidson
freshman caners, nipped. at the
, bud in their flret gwo games, 110 | »
to Columbia. S. (; lonimht to
take on Lhe Unlversiy af South
Carolina Bidtdias, |
The game beeins al 6 pom...
and is the preliminary ‘to the:
South CarolineVirginia clash. |
Last Saturday. several key

frev). BIN Whittington (diving).
Stefan Young M0yd. Ely). Tuck
Holionbeck (100-yd. free), and

“Lofty” Dricsall exclaimed, “He | ‘Kittens got Into foul trouble
cid 9 terrific job and should carly in the game, as thev fell
get all the crodit in the world." ; to Wake Forest, 91-90. Charlic

Davidson's first in the confor.
ence; VMI's second. Thix past
Tuesday night, the Keydets lost
to conference kingpin West
Virginia, 8056. In an earlier
encounter, VMI lust to Clemson,
B74.
BEST SHOOTER

Pacing the VMI ettack is All-
Conference Norm Halberstadt,
whom Dricsell calls “the best
outside shot in the conference.”
Last year, the 60 senior from
Brooklyn, N. ¥:, led the Keydets
In every department as he threw
in an average of 22.5 points a
game.

A goud crop of sophomores
give Coach Weenie Miller his
best. prospeets for a winning
season in nearly 9 decade, 6-7
Bobby Watson ts the big man
under the boards that the Key-
dets have been. Jacking, and 6-3
Bill Blair is expected to share
the scoring load with Halber-

Stadt.

Following the VMI game, the
‘Cats swing on farther north to
Washington, D, C,, for a Monday
night encounter with George
Washington, the “Cinderella”
team a year ago, when they won
the conference tournament after
complling a dismal 3-9 ilcop
Feeord during the tegular seo-
son.

SPARKPLUG
Pacing veteran Casch Bill
Reinhart's quint is All-Confer-
ence Jon Feldman, a §-10 spark-
plug, who averaged 20.4 last
year,

GW opened their season with
an 80-74 victory over VPI, but
Jost to powerful St. John's on
Wednesday night,

To wind up the pre-holiday
activity. the ‘Cats return home
next Friday night for an 8 pm.
elash with Furman.

Tommy Fronech (200-yd. back
stroke), In addition, ihe ‘Cat res
lay team. composed of Hollen:
bock. Mebane. BU Ambrose. und
Jun Moore, covered 400 yards
in 3:57.4 Jor a victory.

Yesterday against the State
Teachers at Boone, practically
the same men came through
with victories, and Devta Van-
dersee, Richsrdson Scholar, con-
tributed a first place an the 200-
yard breast stroke.

On Yuesday night, Jarman
surpassed his opening perform-
ance as he dropped in 36 points
against hithly regarded Duke
Thus he oatscored All-American
Att Heyman by 7 points, the
sume margin by which he eclips-
ed Chappell, 1n the Duke game,
the Wildent center hit 13 goals:
and 8 charity tosses.

Jarman, a pre-med major,
should ecesily better his 15.3

Sign up for
Advanced
Army ROTC...

And right away,
you'll feel better about

your Military

Obligation...

Because you know, as an officer,

your military service will be a stimulating and rewarding experience. You

will enjoy the pay, the prestige, the traditional privileges of an officer...

your military service can pay off handsomely in later life. For example,
ROTC can be tremendously helpful when a man starts his climb up the

civilian ladder. Success in the

executive areas of business and industry

comes earlier and more substantially to the man who can lead. Few
are born leaders; but leadership can be learned. And Advanced ROTC

is a great place to learn It...

you will be contributing to the

limit of your potentialities In one of the

biggest jobs we face today... youcan help keep America so strong
the war the whole world dreads need never happen,

During your 9-year Advanced Army ROTC course,

there will be a subsietence allowance of $535. Uniforms and military
textbooks are paid for. There is a $117 allowance for your six-week
surnmer camp training, plus travel allowance. And when you're
commissioned, a $300 uniform allowance.

And then, of Course, there is

the warm sense of accomplishment you

will fost in June 1963 when tho gold bars of a Second Lieutenant are

pinned on your Army uniform.

Marcon peced the frosh with 20.
points—18 of them coming in
the first hal@ SMarean fouled
out early in the second half
Other top seurers were Don
Davideon. 17; Phil Squiers, 17:
Fred Hetzel, 14: and Dave

Thomas 12. ——— ee 7, a TS _——
Oa Tuesday, the ‘Kittens fei] AND (HEY'RE OFF! — Four trararnity swimmers hit the pool at the beginning of the 75>

to the Baby Blue Devils, 77-71,| yard individuel medtey in Monday tight’s I-F swim meet. They are (from the bottom of the ple.
ps a last minute press failed to| ture up) DENNIS PHILLIPS (Pi Kapp), KEITH FRASER (Pika), CHARLIE ROWE (KA), and ZACH
trim the maryin. SMITH (Bota), The Phi Delts won the meet. Clo sest competitors were the SAE's, KA‘s, and Botas.

THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
SALUTE: LOREN GERGENS

Three years ago he was an economica major in college,
‘Today he is a salesman introducing Bell System products
and servicea to business executives, Loren Gergens and
his sales staff have improved the communications efficiency
ef many firme by analyzing their operations and rec-

—

ofmending advanced Bell System prodticts and services.

Loren Gergens of Mountain States Telephone & Tele-
graph Company, and the other young men like him in
Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country, help
Take your communications service the finest in the world,

@® BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

= —
- yen ; Be.

=

e

Xa

