FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1962

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Sideline
Comments

By STEVE CLARK

TOURNAMENT MAY BE
MOVED TO CHARLOTTE

CHANCES of getting the Southern Conference
tournament moved to Charlotte next year are improving
every day. Wrote Bob Quincy, rts editor of The Char-
lotte News, in his Thursday night column:

Writers around the Conference are
being polled as to their opinions on moving the
tournament from Richmond to the Coliseum. . .
The peony gee awe at Davidson, plus the
city’s accessability all schools, would be a factor
of consideration.

As it now stands, school officials at West Virginia,
Furman, The Citadel, and, of course, Davidson favor
moving the event to Charlotte. Only one more vote of
confidence would swing the deal, and then the wheels
could start turning to produce actual results.

Just where the other vote will come from remains
to be seen. Richmond, VPI, and William & Mary would
probably never concede to the proposal. That leaves VMI
and George Washington with the power to give the final
o.k. to a needed change.

The recent tournament at Richmond drew only about

IN THE CITADEL’S POOL THIS WEEKEND

1-Spirited ’Catfish
it Conference Meet

The Davidson College swimmers left day before yesterday for Charleston, S. C.,

where they are
end in The Citadel’s pool.

The ’Catfish completed their
regular schedule last week by
losing both of their meets on
their trip into Virginia. William |
& Mary splashed them, 50-45,
last Thursday, while VMI,
probably the best team in the
conference, dunked them, 57-47,
the following day.

The two losses gave the
swimmers an overall record of
3-7 for the season—one of the
worst records a Dwight Shoe
—coached team has ever com-
piled.

However, Shoe and his men |
are out to rectify themselves
this weekend in the one that
counts. Although they carried a |
poor record and a not-much- |
chance-of-winning tab to the!

|
'

18,000 fans in three nights. Receipts were hardly enough |

to pay for all of the teams’ travelling expenses, much less | were in high spirits when they | Phi_ Gams

enough to meet all the other expenses of a three-day
tournament. With the right promotion, and if our local |
Wildcats come through like they’re supposed to, the
tournament could draw close to 30,000 fans (10,000 a
night) in three nights in the Charlotte Coliseum. Since
the purpose of the tournament is to make money for the
conference, the move to Charlotte seems like a logical
action.

Probably the best solution to the whole problem is
to do away with the tournament entirely. It seems to us
that the team that wins the regular season championship
has the sole right to represent the conference in the
NCAA playoffs. Suppose we finished first during the
regular season next year (and it’s entirely possible), but
lost the chance to play for the national titie in the tourna-
ment. We'd be upset to say the least.

Such has been the case for West Virginia for the past
eight years. Only once have they lost the tournament
after being regular season champs—last year to George
Washington—but imagine the frustration of the poor
Mountaineer coach each year at tournament time.

Chuck Noe, VPI’s non-sympathetic coach, said after
his team had been thoroughly trounced by the Mounties
in the finals of this year’s tourney, “I feel real sorry for
George King (WVU head coach). His team proves they're

conference meet, the ‘Catfish |

left
|

“VMI and The Citadel are}
definitely the teams to beat this
year,” explains Shoe, “and we'll ,
be in there fighting.”

Davidson’s best prospects
for the meet include Carter
Mebane in the 220 and 440-
yd. freestyle, Bill Whittington
in the diving events, Stefan

Young in the 200-yd. butter-

fly and 200-yd. breaststroke,

Barry Branch and Jack Hol-

lenbeck in the 100-yd. free- |

style, and Tommy French in
the 200-yd. backstroke.

articipating in the Southern Conference meet being held this week-

see

Fijis Take I-F
Wrestling Crown

The Phi Gams walked away with the laurels in this
year’s I-F wrestling tournament on the mats of Johnston
Gymnasium on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week.

defeated Charies Arthur (Sig-
ma Chi).
167—George Pepper (Sigma

|

Taking three out of nine first
places, the Fijis outpointed their
nearest competitors, the SAE’s,

by 67-49. The SAE’s were de- Chi) defeated itvon Rohrer
fending champions. (SAE).

The Phi Delts, who currently 177—Pete Jorgeson (Pi
lead the overall point race for Kappa) defeated Walt Mc-
the LF sports trophy, finished Nairy (SAE).
fourth behind the Sigma Chis. 191—John Cameron (Phi

Deit) pinned Dick Voorhees

Team scores were as follows: (Kappa Sig).

SAE’ id Heavyweight—Don Hall

Si : Chi 36 (Phi Gam) pinned Glenn
at ae 34 Hanes (SAE).

Pi Kapps 25

Betas 22

Independents 14

Sig Eps 12
pe tn 1 The baseball team, under Tom |
Kappa Sigs 11 | Stevens, will open their sched. |
Sigma Nus g) ule next Saturday here against |
Pikas 0 | Pfeiffer. |

| The following Monday, Dr
Individual results of the finals! Tom Scott and his golfers jour
are as follows: | ney to High Point College for
123—Ken Painter (Phi Delt) | their first match
pinned John Shue (Sig Ep). | On Tuesday, March 20, Harry
130—Mike Nemir (Phi Gam) | fosleman makes his debut as |
pinned Jimmy Lawton (Beta). | head tennis coach as his netters

‘entertain Pfeiffer.
137-—Al Mullen (ind. de | The other spring sport, track,

VMI, sporting three individ-

ual conference champions (win
between
to retain

ners of six events
them), are favored
their championship.

the best in the conference all year long, and then they
have to do it all over again in the tournament.”

THE HUSTLER

SPEAKING of our “muscle-building program,” we
understand that Lefty Driesell ieft this week in search
of some more basketball talent

Driesell, who claims that next year’s freshman crop
will be as good or better than this year’s despite fewer
scholarships, took off for the section of our country
where basketballs instead of rattles are placed in babies’
cribs—the Midwest. Following a trip into Pennsylvania
the young hustler will extensively cover Indiana and
Ohio in hones of persuading several roundball artists to
become Davidson Gentlemen,

Driesell’s hard work will soon bring big dividends.
As a writer for the Greensboro Daily News recently said,
“Word is out that Davidson College will finish no worst
than third place in the Southern Conference next year.”

In no way does this statement overrule the possibili-
ty of a championship club.

FINAL BASKETBALL STATISTICS
DAVIDSON COLLEGE WILDCATS

1961-62

PLAYER Games FG FT Pts. Avg.
Bill Jarman 25 185 166-226 536 214
Terry Holland 25 144 105-136 393 15.7
Haywood Evans 25 97 47-59 231 92
Bill Beerman 25 87 5549. 229 9.1
D. G. Martin 25 64 - 73-113 181 72
Danny Carrell 25 27 «34-46 88 3.5
Allan Millar 11 11 0-3 22. 20
Lymon Dillon 17 12 9-17 33.1.9

oward Arbuckle 12 0 3-6 o. OS
Jerry Trammell 7 0 1-3 L Oa

TOTALS 25 617 493-678 1727 69.1

TEAM LEADERS: field goal pct. — Jarman, 51%
free throw pct. — Evans and
Beerman, 80%
rebounds — Jarman, 281 (avg. - 11.2)

|

The Kappa Sigs took two
giant steps forward in their
march toward the I-F bas-
ketball championship this
week with big victories over
the SAE’s and KA’s. The
wins were the 8th and 9th
straight for the Sigs, who
are undefeated with three
remaining games.

“ROLL OVER, BEETHOVEN,” says Sig Ep JOE WELD (back to camera) to Phi Gam LOU
ZIRKLE in Tuesday night's |-F wrestling action. Zirkle won this match, and his fraternity won the
whole meet. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

on Jim Loveless (Sigma gets underway on Wednesday,
" March 28, when veters “oac
17nndee Parker (OAR) larch B, hen veteran coac
i i ‘ . |Heath Whittle pits his cinder- |
pinned Lewis Martin (Phi fe REPS
men against Catawba on the
Gam). local track.
' 157—Jerry Engh (Phi Gam)

Cagers Keep I-F Lead
Kelly in their 82-24 rout of the man Harold Kernodle’s 12
Sig Eps. points, almost pulled the upset
Larry Leafer and Jim Rhyne of the year.
hit 14 points each, while Bob Jim Fuller scored 19 and
Porter and Mims Rogers added Durwood Settles added 17 as the |
13 and 11, respectively, as the Kappa Sigs slipped by the SAE’s |
Phi Gams overpowered the Sig- 53-50. Billy Jo Morgan pumped |
ma Nus, 78-30. in 19 points and Ed Hines had}

The ATO’s raced by the Pikas, 12 for the SAE’s. |
71-37, on the legs of Paul Du- The Pikas edged the Sigma |

Meanwhile the Phi Gams re- vall’s 22 points. George Sledge Nus, 34-32, on Keith Fraser’s |
mained in second place by de- added 17 and Mike Payne hit 15 last-second jump shot. Freshman
feating the Sigma Nus. for the winners. Arthur Clark scored 16 points

The Phi Delts took pos- The SAE’s forfeited to the In- for the Nus.
session of third place with a dependents.
too-close-for-comfort three-point On Monday the Sigma Chis I-F CAGE aac aia L
win over the Pi Kapps. clobbered the Betas, 51-33, be- Kappa Sigs 9 0

This week's I-F checklist ing hind Harry Cline’s 20 points. Phi Gams 6 2
cludes the following: Tommy Hamilton hit 15 for the pri peits ss

Last Thursday the Sigma Betas. ATO’s 5 3
Chis, led by reserve Jeff Wamp- Led by Billy Bankhead’s 11 Sigma Chis 5 3
ler’s 17 points, defeated the Pi points, the Phi Delts nipped the Independents 6 4
Kapps, 57-46. Pi Kapps, 37-34, with some last- Betas 4 4

Last Friday the KA’s got 21- second clutch free throwing. KA’s 3 3
point performances from both Leading by as much as 10 points s AE's 4 5
Rick Smyre and Sam Grimes, at certain stages of the game, Pikas 4 5
and a 15-point one out of Haynes the Pi Kapps, paced by fresh- Pi Ka 1 6

Pps

Sig Eps 1 7
MEET YOUR FRIENDS Sigma Nus .

AT THE . TOP TEN I-F SCORERS
Mark Dunn, Ind. 17.6
GONDOLA RESTAURANT Jim Puller, KS. 174
si Paul Duvall, ATO 16.8
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. David Johnson, Ind. 16.3
CHARLOTTE Tommy Hamilton, Beta 15.3
WHILE ENJOYING Johnny Rogers, KS 14.9
THE BEST John Sharp, KA 148
IN Earl Cole, Ind. 14.6
Rick Smyre, KA 14.4
PIZZA and SPAGHETTI Ba Hines, SAE 141
. George Sledge, ATO 14.1

team, showed no mercy on their

1

STILL WET BEHIND THE EARS—Following a dip in the local pool, four Davidson swimmers

| take a break on the diving board. They are (L-R) BILL WHITINGTON, CARTER MEBANE, TOM-
|MY FRENCH, and CAPTAIN STEFAN YOUNG. The ‘Catfish are in Charleston, S. C., this week-
end for the Southern Conference meet.

, Conference Toughies
‘Spring Sports Stat Supdue ’Cat Matmen

(Staff Photo by McCuthcen)

BY BILL PRIDGEN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Davidson’s matmen, after finishing their best regular season in 25 years, met

stiffer competition at the Southern Conference tournament in Blacksburg, Va., last
weekend.

favorite to win the 177-pound
on referee's decision in
However, Alexander

Mills defeated
The Citadel for

the host 167-pound class

Paul Stork of

The VPI Gobblers,
class,

overtime

“guests,” and took first place third place

in the tournament again this Fourth place - finishes were lost his. next two matches in

year earned by Tom Wright, 123- overtime periods—one by ref-
The Citadel, with a much- pound lees’ Linton Wray, 137- eree’s deciston and one because

improved team, managed to pound class: Jim Alexander, Of stalling.

| come out second 177-pound ‘class; and Tom Day Coach Charlie Parker has a
The Citadel's 157-pound ace, heavyweight strong nucleus, around which

Jeff, Hartsell, from. Albemarlk Dick Wrav. the team’s regu. to build next year’s team. With

N. C., was voted the outstandin ; 55¢ seek) ° only. tuteh. ‘Gabo Tintin

wrestler of the ‘tourr f t) mesg Wira , | and Alex
? This mark Wildeat

the { ra ced an
on Ul re

rh Di; \ Davidson

json ri could | finisl for the tourney \ Parker ting bi

la : { tl ich competition | viet ) 0 m freshmen, es
vas thi 1 ant db Simmons of Vir- ; al ] } r. Jor

lsenhomor Bill Mills -in. the a } pre-tournan Parke in next year’s campaign
r > |

“And when I get
that next promotion...”

However short on furnishings, new homes are filled with
love. The kind of love that finds time for hand-holding,
hope-sharing and dream-weaving.

The man who has love in his heart has goals to reach.
It is squarely up to business to constantly create jobs
with opportunities as big as the man who wants them.

@) Southern Bell
