: ad yd HOMECOMING —
EP ait nit rshat WILDCATS VS. INDIANS
: (See Page Three)

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College .
. 3 alo % oT = DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12,1962 wee : NUMBER FIVE

B Homecoming Schedule

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12

8:00 p.m. Artists Series Concert: Espanola Spanish Dance Troupe,
Chambers Auditorium

9:00 p.m. HOMECOMING DANCE, Johnston Gymnasium
featuring a Tommy Dorsey Orchestra

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13

10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. Registration, David Ovens College Union, Terrace
Lobby
10:00 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Open House
10:00-11:30 a.m. Coffee Hour, Union Lobby
10:00 a.m. Tennis Exhibition: Varsity and Freshman Teams
10:30 a.m. Cross-Country Meet: Davidson vs. The Citadel, Soccer Field
11:00 a.m. Wildcat Meeting, Morrison Room, Union
Open to all Davidson alumni, parents, and friends
11:00 a.m. Judging of Homecoming Displays, Patterson Fraternity Court
12:00 Noon HOMECOMING LUNCHEON, Union, South Court
(In the event of inclement weather, Chambers Banquet Hall)

2:00 p.m. HOMECOMING FOOTBALL GAME
Davidson vs. William and Mary
Halftime Ceremonies will include the installation of 1962-63
officers of the Davidson College Alumni Association

JOE ANSLEY — SENIOR CO-CAPTAIN 8:00 p.m. ie bates Chambers Auditorium DAVE LOPP — JUNIOR CO-CAPTAIN

Mislaid Species Rediscovered:
Pupils Dilate As Myriad Alights

- - aameN Teepe | 1962-63 Sweethearts Huey Smith Cancels,
Cantey, Kimrey Contest i Brings Jarmels

Bh db k Hit \ Ch os Headlining the activities of Homecoming 1962. is a
program that ranges from the rock ’n roll of the Drifters
an OO wand l OF S alr to the music of the Tommy Dersey Orchestra; from the
Tim Kimrey and Bill Cantey are the two candidates selected this week by the judging of Homecoming decorations to the annual foot-
Publications Board for editor of next year’s Wildeat Handbook. The election has been ball game; and from the exotic dances of a Spanish Dance
tentatively scheduled -for next Thursday after chapel. froupe to the more exotic dances of the fraternity after-
Kimrey and Cantey both ever, it is equally informative parties
worked on this year’s edition of to upperclassmen, Fraternity Begun this morning with a Mary will beain with the
the handbook. Kimrey served as men _ use freshmen pictures ex- ae rae gre A : ae 3
business manager; Cantey serv- tensively during Rush Week wapent Depraily led by the oe ee ee eee
s ‘ . ; : 5 ; cheerleaders, this. year's Home- tim. At the. half-time the

ed as a staff writer in charge And throughout the year the

coming promises to be an im- 1962-63 officers of the David-

of several sections of the hand- handbook serves as a calendar \ portant occasion for all parti sa Ridnd Aasadidiion wit
book. gS : of events, a reference for Col- 4 *tipants. The campus welcomes be installed.

Cantey, a junior from Colum- lege regulations, and & general woOOKIE WORKMAN RELA ANDERSON visiting female companions, re- At 8 p.m. the IFC Homecom-
bia, South Carolina was working guide to. campus activities. : KAPPA SIGMA SAE turning alumni, performers, and ing concert will feature the
for his second year as a mem- Although a decrease in i i, the excitement’ of this year's music of the Jarmels in coopera-

ber of the Handbook staff. In
his freshman year he was also
a staff writer. Cantey is major-
ing in economics and is a mem-
ber of Beta Theta Pi social fra-
ternity.

Kimrey. also a junior, is from
Raleigh. In addition to being

budget is probable this year,
1 feel that additional adver-
tising can make up the dif-
ference. The quality of the
handbook — with freshmen
pictures, fuligloss pages, and
comprehensive format —
should be maintained,” con-

first dance’ weekend. tion with the Drifters, Both
groups will be featured at the
two-hour concert in Chambers
Auditorium, instead of the Four
Freshmen | as ener plan-
ned

Both tonight and. Saturday
night, the fraternities have var-

To begin the “dance” part of
the weekend is the program to-
night at 8 in Chambers Audi
torium. In conjunction with the
Homecoming activities the
Artist Series presents Teresa

editor of his high school annual, W. C. CANTEY cluded Cantey. y Su Compania Eapenola with ; ifter-dance activities plan-
he served as assistant business KIMREY performances of Spanish j.4 “oft nt ‘ ain hice
manager for Quips and Cranks Commenting on changes he Dances Manor is also planning os alee
his freshman year. Kimrey is an would make in the handbook, : dance p vty tani ht and tomor-
English-History major and is a Kimrey stated. “I would make Following at 9, the formal. Se ae ge = gins
member of ATO. it more readable. It's very dif- memte: inthe college gym Siac iu gs a

JANE BECKETT ‘feature the Tommy Dorsey
SIGMA CHI Orchestra under the direction

of $ Donahue. Originally | Dugh li ti Board
ot cam garanee. croinal | Dublications Boar
the dance with the traditional |

figure will seinen until mid- Selects New Head
night. The orchestra is mak-
ing a return engagement.

This is the second year that
the election for Wildcat Hand-
book editor has been held in
early fall, instead of early
spring the preceding semes-
ter when most student body
elections are conducted to fill
positions for the coming year.

Much of the work on the
handbook cannot be finished
until late spring when the names

ficult to be creative with some HARRIET JAMES
thing like the handbook, whose sigMA PHI EPSILON
main function is to provide in-
formation

“Basically, I'd like to change
the viewpoint of the hand-
book from the attitude of the |
hill orienting incoming fresh- |
men to the attitude of present
students orienting the new
freshmen. | would like to have

Several changes have tak-
en place in the Publications
The Saturday’ morning events; Board. of Davidson College.

Ed Willer, Business Manager
of THE DAVIDSONIAN, will

JAN TAYLOR SANDY LANEHART
P| KAPPA ALPHA ALPHA TAU OMEGA

here include a tennis exhibition
at 10, a Davidson-Citadel cros

Soe — ne = more student ideas in the | ountry meet. alumni registra: |5¢TY® 4 the president of the
ea oe “eo ype gga handbook. tion, a coffee hour, open house board for the remainder of the
changes have been revealed. “One thing I’ is | ’ 4 ’ FE RE I ON agin non
= oy td apogee T. H. KIMREY One thing I'll do is change and the judging of the Home school year Willer. is a senior
e election mus ’ A. all the pictures. Some of them consina Gecmsdiitia and « member of Sigma Alpha
at this time so that the new dicated their plans if elected. have been in there as long as Epsilon social fraternity,

editor can attend the Ameri- ‘ve been a student here. ; ; ahiadi aii Sonik teball 4 ‘
can Collegiate Press Conven- CANTEY ae ae ike to incorporate | ARS. SAAT eee BECKY NEWSOME Pieitoat bs poy A will jodge the pov povneibo "a pong od
tien to be held in Detroit Oct. Cantey stated, “The primary a student directory in the hand- PH! GAMMA DELTA Pl KAPPA PHI ewch cof the Homecoming dis ganization which controls publi-
25-27 this year. purpose of the Wildcat Hand- book next year. Freshman room plays of the twelve fraternities.| cations at Davidson. Stafford
In statements to THE DAV- book is to serve as a guide to numbers could be listed under Judging will be based-on over | was the cditor of. this year's
IDSONIAN, both candidates in- - the incoming freshmen; how- their names and pictures.” all effect (40%). the amount of | Wildcat’ Handbook and is an
* work (30 and originality | ATO. In December, the new edi-
(30 lhe results will be an-!tor of the handbook will take
y nounced : the football. gamejover the duties that Stafford

half-tim | now holds
From 10 to 1, the alumni | Elections for the new editor

may register at the David | will be held shortly. Bill Can-
Ovens College Union in the | tey and Tim Kimrey are the
lobby. The Union’s Coffee nominees.
Hour will be from 10 until President D. Grier Martin an-
11:30. In the Morrison Room ‘nounced that Dr. Richard R.
Davidsonian Staff Writer / of the Union the Wildcat Club | Bernard, professor of mathema-
A. Lyndon Foscue, of Long Island, N. Y., will be sworn in as president of the ties, a will hold a meeting open to | tics, has replaced Professor J.
Alumni Association tomorrow during halftime of the Davidson-William and Mary SALLY VEITH GENIE RAY WATSON 41) alumni, parents, and |. Kimbrough, also of the

A. L. Foscue President

BY TOM VINSON

|
i
|
|
|
j

football game. : SIGMA NU BETA THETA PI friends. | Mathematics Dept., as perman-
Foscue was graduated from ma Epsilon. Foscue lives on Long Island, The annual Homecoming} ent faculty member to the

luncheon at 12 noon will be on| board.

the south court of the Union. | While Dr. Bernard is away
An Open House for all guests on _ leave-of-absence, Dean
will be held for the New Cham. | | Richard C. Burts will assume
bers Dome Room, the new ad-| his position.

ministration offices in the south; The Student Body Financial
basement of Chambers, the Dana | | Committee, working through the
Science Laboratories, the John| board, has announced the allo-
R. Cunningham Fine Arts Cen-| cation of funds to the various
ter, Eu and Phi Literary Halls,| Student Body publications. The
and the College Church until | annual, Quips and Cranks, will
1:30 and again after the foot-| receive $7,900. Next in line is
ball game. |THE DAVIDSONIAN with an
2 @ | allocation of $5,077. Scrips and
MRS, CATHY PLUNKET At 2 the Homecoming foot- Pranks will get $2,038 and The
PH! DELTA THETA ball game against William and | Wildcat Handbook $1,275.

Davidson in 1920 and is now
vice-president of Union Carbide
Co.

N. Y. He has been an elder and
a deacon in the Roslyn Presby-
terian Church and is a trustee
At Davidson, he was a mem: of North Shore Hospital, Man-

ber of Phi Beta Kappa, manager hasset, L. I.

of the baseball team, president ,_— DAVIBEQMIAN wel- He is a Mason and a member
of Philanthropic Literary So- | comes Scripts ‘n Pranks’ lat-] of the Lions Club. His wife is
ciety, and secretary-treasurer | est attempt on the literary | Mary Snyder Foscue, and he
of his junior class. has two daughters, both mar- |

scene. ;
He has been an assistant here ried.
in math and chemistry and was Something was bound to Other officers are James

on the Executive Committee of
the Athletic Association. He was |" “er the thalidomide | ictte, presidentelect; Samuel
a letterman and a member of fell into the printers’ ink. . . M. Hemphill, ‘39, of Hickory

the Polity Club and Gamma Sig- (Continued On Page 4)

In 1956 he received an honor-
ary doctor of science degree
from West Virginia Wesleyan.

