THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1962

TOO BUSY TO WRITE HOME?
SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN!

(For a paltry $3.00)

Name

Street or Box No.
Town

State

a renewal.

| This is a new subscription;

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.

The Hub Replaces Hugo's
*SWith Napkins, Magazines

BY MIKE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Teresa To Perform
For Artist Program

The appearance of Flor Peeters, Belgiar organist
and composer, on Friday, Oct. 5, will inaugurate the
1962-63 Davidson College Artist. Series. Peeter’s per-
formance, which will begin at 8:15 p.m. in the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church, will be followed by a
reception in the church.

Teresa y Su Compania Espano- bers Building at 8:15 p:m. Fol-
la, the second attraction of the lowing the program, the group,
series, will present an evening now on its first tour of the

of Spanish dancing on Friday,
Oct. 12, in the auditorium of the
Chambers Building. Because of
Homecoming. this program will
begin at 8. followed by a re-
ception in the Student Union.
On Tuesday, Oct. 23, the
Cleveland Players, a profession:
al touring theatre, will present
Sean O’Casey’s play, [ Knock at
the Door. The performance will
begin at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers
auditorium and a reception will
follow in the Student Union.

United States, will be entertain-
ed at a reception in the Student
Union.

The appearance of Rolf
Bjoerling on Friday, March 22,
will conclude the 1962-63 Artist
Series. Bjoerling, a tenor whose
repetoire ranges from opera to
art music, is currently on his
first American tour. His per-
formance will begin at 8:15
p.m. in the auditorium of
Chambers Building and will be
followed by a reception in the

The Komitas String Quartet,,Student Union.

Russia's foremost string quar-

Tickets for all performances

Downtown Davidson will soon be graced by a new | tet, will perform Friday, Feb. I, will be on sale in the Cunning

in the auditorium of the Cham- ham Fine Arts Center.

”
agp
ne

PAGE FOUR
‘
X
.
& we
» t
(A
nw :
—
- tS J
+ fl
P ™ we 4 a
| an
ea |
a
. _ %

of Hugo’s.

For quite awhile both towns-
people and college students have

PROF. ERICH WRUCK — leans forward as he relates tales ;been noticing and wondering
of his childhood and early military action as an anti-sircraft about all the activity in and

gunner for the Nazis.

German Prof. Wruck
Tells His Life History

BY BUCK LAWRIMORE
Davidsonien Feature Writer

around the old building next to
Hood Norton’s Barber Shop. The
most popular rumor stated that
it was to be made into a new
Tastee-Freeze store.

This idea is partly correct,
since the corporation that owns.
the Oornelius Tastee-Freeze is.
sponsoring the new business.
But according to the two paint-
spattered men busy renovating
the shop, the Hub will be ar ef-

4 store, the Hub, designed to fill the gap left by the closing

sandwich items on a
gril), backed by everything from
cards to Ip albums and a 24-
hour developing service.

Coming into direct competi-
tion with several well-known en-
terprises, he added that the en-
tire rear of the store would be
devoted to paperbacks and maga-
zines, while much of the shelf
space in front would be filled
with a wide variety of tobacco
items.

This five-cent and ten-doller
emporium will also cater to
fraternity needs, including

modern |

Young Erich Wruck stumbled from his bed to the
scream of a nerve-jangling alarm.

Rubbing the sleep from his Wruck was assigned to a
eyes as the wet wind whipped battery of big guns on a small
his face, he groped through the island in the North Sea, where
night to his station and slowly he shelled Allied planes over-
pivoted the big anti-aircraft gun head or ships that dared come
toward a B17 rumbling over. too close.
head. Stationed on a small island
near Holland on a cold fall
night in 1945, the boy was a

“[ felt very strange.” he

human .. . I never saw death

frowned.’ “I never shot at a)

fort to bring certain materiaf
benefits of civilization to David-
som.

An in-the-peint interview
with the soomtobe manager
of the Hub, George Arkebaver,
brought out several interest-
ing facts, such as that he Is 2
Yankee hoping to crack the
rusticity .of this small college
town by attempting to furnish
the wildeats with everything

monogrammed matchbooks, nap-
kins and the like; it will also
selt monogramed napkins fo
anyone who would like to see
his mame on several hundred
napkins. As a special sideline,
students will also be able to
order typewriters through the
Hub.

Perhaps a. price war in the
making? George made no com-

Dr. John Redhead

Gives Vespers Talk

Dr. John A. Redhead, Jr., a
trustee of the college presently
serving as pastor of the First’
Presbyterian Church of Greens
boro, will deliver the vespers
sermon this Sunday evening in
the college church. Ttie fresh-
men vespers in Hodson Hall will’
be addressed by Dr. L. H. Holl-
ingsworth, chaplain’ off Wake
Forest College.

After doing post-graduate
work at Union Theological Sem:
inary in Richmond, Va., Dr. Red-
head was awarded an Honorary
DD by Davidson College. A pas-
tor in four different churches
since 1930, Dr. Redhead ‘has also
served as Moderator of the
North Carolina Synod, in addi-
tion to being a Protestant
spokesman in the press. radio,
and television.

Dr. Hollingsworth, college
chaplain at Wake Forest since

Nazi gunner at 16 years of age.

He remembered the days
when he had soared in air-
planes. and as the shells scream-

or even worried that I would be but clothes. (Retax, Rush.)

killed. I was doing something
that I had to do, or be punished.

“There were many sorts of

Calmty wielding a paint brush
and giving away trade secrets,

ment, but -he and his assistant} 1959, graduated from Wake
seem anxious to succeed; and,| Forest College and did his grad-
after all, a little bit of competi-| uate studies at New Orleans
tion is a dollar-saving thing. Theological Seminary.

Scholars

(Continued From: Page One)

his return home, he will enter

the University of Oslo.

Pi Kappa Phi will'be host to
both Sexholm and’ Nobutoku
Tatsuta of Tokyo this year.
Tatsuta is a graduate of
Sophia University: in Tokyo
where he majored ‘in English.
in athletics, he ié- proficient
in judo. Here, he will study
economies.

— ll

MUY BONITA TERESA — will present a program of Spanish

Alexander Wustmann will be| ¢@nces o2 Homecoming weekend as the second attraction of the

associated with Sigma Chi dur-
ing his studies at Davidson.
From Worms, Germ
mann has studied economics at
the University of Marburg. He
looks forward to a career in
business.

Chu Fun Cheung was born in
Kwei-Yang, China, the som of a
doctor. He has attended New
Asia College, an institution re-
ceiving some support from Yale
University. He was awarded a
Richardson Scholarship for 1961-
1962 but could not obtain a visa
until this year. He is interested
in studying mathematics and
physics.

196243 Davidson College Artist Series. The first performance in
the series will be am orger recital by Flor Peeters, o Belgien

any, Wast- ergenist and composer, or Fridwy, Oct. 5.

a
(Author of “7 Was a T Dworf,” “The Many
Loves of Dobie Cath sa,”” ele.)

ANOTHER YEAR, ANOTHER DOLLAR

With today’s entry E begin my nioth year of writing columns

punishment,” he understated.

‘George boasted of a long line of |

ed upward, he couldn’t help
wondering what the Americans
in the big plane above were like.

In 1957 he was a Second
Lieutenant in the U. S. Army
and taught one of those air-
men the details of electronics
of a popular American guided
missile.

Today he teaches German at
Davidson College. “I have led
a rather unusual life,” he mod-
estly noted as his blue German
eyes twinkled and his full Ger-
man face grinned. :

“When | was 12%, | was
forced to join a Nazi youth
movement. | learned to fly a
glider and found that the
youth air corps was fairly re-
moved from heavy party acti-
vities,” he related with an airy
eccent.

“Then in 1944 I, like most
high schoo) students, was draft-
ed and allowed to choose serv-
ice in the Navy or Air Force.
The only boys who escaped draft
were those with strong political
pull or those unfit for military
service. I was assigned to Naval
anti-aircraft artillery,”‘ he ex-
plained.

le nom
por qualite,
Gout, et
Service Excellent *

* Club Internationale’

6:00-10:00 P.M. Friday, Sept.
28th. $5.00 couple — By
reservation only.
Reservations available at the
Union Desk.

Little more than a year later
he was discharged after Nazi Ni M F h
surrender. He met his exiled, ine ore ros
family near Bremen, Germany. e
and went back to school to re Pledge Fraternities
ceive his “abitur,” a diploma
which represented advancement ,
ete ithe second yeat of col- nnounced Wednesday evening

He attended what is now the ‘hat nine more freshmen have

free University of Bertin, but ‘pledged fraternities since the
had to feave to help his father | formal pledging period last Sat-
in business, as he was the only ‘urday, bringing the total number
son. of ‘fraternity pledges to 191.
Wruck soon met Esther‘ Rogers noted that four of the
Schmidt, a New Jersey girl pledges last weekend were
studying as a Fulbright scholar sophomores, not freshmen as
at Erlangen University nearby. °Tiginally reported in THE
Marriage followed and the new- DAVIDSONIAN.
ly-weds yearned to go to Ameri: he new pledgings brought
ca to start their own life. the total number pledged to just
By 1952 he had a job at a over 70 per cent of the fresh-
machine importing house in New man class. Pledging ATO was
York City. “Their unethical Murray Smith. New pledge at
practices gave me a very bad the KA house was James Star-
first impression of Americans,” rett. Bill Oouncil pledged Phi
he added., Delt. The Pikas pledged two
A naturalized citizen, he more boys, John Callender and
was drafted into the U. §. Bill Shackleford. John Crawford
Army in 1953, serving various : pledged Pi Kapp. Pledging the
missile and artillery units in | highest number since the week-
the South. end were the Sig Eps, with three
“Most of the. time I taught:new boys — Wayne Cherry.
various branches of electronics) en Kuykendall, and Randy |

I love to teach.” he smiled. | Webb.

IFC President Johhny Rogers

“By chance. one of my sergeants Hrightighting this weekend will;

had been in the B-17's that T be the annual pledge parties of
had fired on. We compared covcral fraternities. l
records and verified our sus-,
picions.” Wruck exclaimed. |

Off to Rutgers went the |

ex-soldier in 1958. After a year
he had a BA in German. He
taught the language to pay his
way through graduate school.
“I knew I wanted to teach.”
the German recalted, “but [
disliked the average confusion
and low standards of graduate
students I met. I hoped to find
ia small undergraduate college

Subscribe Nowe
at Halt Price #

Laas

)

Distributed from

where I could teach German,’ BOSTON
By chance one of his pro- 10s. ncees
fessors at Rutgers told him of
Davidson. CHICAGO
“Though 1 had a total of 14 4
other offers, I told them all ‘no’ ° jee five.
immediately. I had found all 1} News Reports (

wanted,” he declared with ob-
vious satisfaction.

Having completed his cours.
work for a PhD in German,

o Construclive
Background Material

Wruck is now teaching here at} ® Literary and

a school he regards highly. H °
“Davidson is first of all Entertainment New:

small but excellent. Its teach- o Penetrating

ers are of very high catiber,
who take a sincere interest in
their students,” he opined.
“This is very rare.”

“I was offered a comfortabic
salary for me and my family,
and I was very happy to find
that this is a Christian school.”

Wruck, only 34, has three
children: Eric, 6; Karin, 5; and
Krista, 2.

Editorials

Clip this odvertiscment and re-
turn it with your check of money
order to:

The Christion Science Monitor
One Norwoy St., Boston 15, Mass.

01 Yeor $11 (6 mos. $5.50

This specio! offer ovollchle to
college students. Faculty momber:
ond college fibroriss ots0 eligibl>,
when subsczibirg themselves... _

F

¥

ADLE.

—

THE CLEAN WHITE SOCK

He not only wears the clean white sock; he is “clean white sock.’ It’s a kind of confi-
dence that comes from knowing the right thing to do; even if he decides not to do
it. Hie clean white socks are by Adier. Hie girl is by his side, every bit as “clean white
sock’ as he le. Naturally they don’t always wear white socke, they just act like they do.
People who really swing are wearing the Adier SC shrink controlled wool sock. $1.00.

THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO

%

__ 8

ADLER'’S swinging SC's availabie at

Rush Wilson Ctd.

in year echout i:ewspaper foe the makers of Marlboro Cigurettes.

Nine veart, I pelieve you will agree, is a long time. In fact,
it tuk iiey & Seiic svaver than nine years to dig the Sucz
Canni, and you kusw «hat a gigantic undertaking that was!
To ke aure, the wo weutd bave gone more rapidly had the
shovel been iovenid at tbat tiine, but, as we all know, the
shov:] was not invented until 1946 by Walter R. Shovel of
Cleveland, Ohio. Before Mr. Shovel’s discovery in 1046, all
digging was done with sugar tongs—a method unquestionably
dainty but hardly what one would call rapid. There were, natu-
rally. many efforts made to speed up digging before Mr. Shovel’s
breakthrough—notably an attempt in 1912 by the immortal
Thomas Alva Edison to dig with the phonograph, but the only
thin; that happened was that he got his horn full of sand. This
so depressed Mr. Edison that be fell into a fit of melancholy
from which he did not emerge until two -years later when his
friend William Wordsworth, the eminent nature poet, cheered
him up by imitating 1 duck for four and a half hours.

But I digress. For nine years, I say, I have been writing this
columr, for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, and for nine
years they have been paying me money. You are shocked. You
thirk that anyone who has tasted Marlboro’s unparulleled
flavur, who has enjoyed Marlboro’s filter, who has revelled in
MatSboro’s jolly red and white pack or box should be more than
willing to write about Marlboro without a penny’s compensa-
tion. You are wrong.

Cumpensation is the very foundation stone of the American
Way of “Life. Whether you love your-work or hate it, our system
absolutely requires that you be paid for it. For example, T
have a friend named Rex Glebe, a veterinarian by profession,
who simply adores to worm dogs. I mean you can call him up
and say, “Hey, Rex, let’s go bowl! a few lines,” or “Hey, Rex,
let’s go flatten sore pennies on the railroad tracks,” and ‘he
will always reply, “No, thunks. I better stay here in cnse.
-komebody wants a dog wormed.” I mean there is not one thing
in the whole world you can name that Rex likes better than
worming a dog. But even so, Rex always sends a bill for worm-
ing your dog becnuse in his wisdom he knows that to do other-
wise would be to rend, possibly irreparably, the fabric of
detocracy,

wants d doy torned”

It’s the same with me and Marlboro Cigarettes. I think
Marlboro’s flavor represents the pinnacle of the tobacconist’s
att. I think Mariboro’s filter represents the pinnacle of the
filter-maker’s art. I think Marlboro’s pack and box represent
the pinnacle of the packager’s art. 1 think Marlboro is a pleas-
ure and a treasure, and I fairly burst with pride that I have
been chosen to speak for Marlboro on your campus. All the
same, I want my money every week. And the makers of
Marlboro understand this full well. They don’t like it, but they
understand it.

Ta the columns which follow this opening installment, I will
turn the hot white light of truth on the pressing problems of
campus life—the many and varied dilemmas which beset the
undergraduate—burning questions like “Should Chaucer class-
rooms be converted to parking garages?” and “Should proctors
ke given a saliva test?” and “Should foreign exchange students
be held for ransom?”?

And in these columns, while grappling with the crises that
vex campus America, I will make occasional brief mention of
Marlboro Cigarettes. If I do not, the makers will not give me

any money. @ 1062 las Sbulneo
6

s e

The makers ot Marlboro will bring you this uncensored,
free-style column 26 times throughout the school gear. Dur-
ing this pertod it is not unlikely that Old Max will step on

eome toce—principally oure—but we think it’s ail in fun and
we hope you will too.
