Che Davidsanian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1962

(AH Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Spectators Of Progress

Thet the Genera! Assembly affirm that enforced segregation of the races
is discrimination which is out of harmony with Christian theolegy and ethics and
that the Church, in its relationship to cultural petterns, should lead rather

than follow.

(From the “Report of the Council of Christian Reletions Submitted to and
Approved by the 1954 General Assembly of the Presbyterien Church in th

United States for Church-Wide Use.)

“It’s a great day for Wake For-
est.” This was the first sentence in a
recent editorial in the college’s news-
paper (Old Gold and Black). It referred
to their trustees’ decision in April to
integrate the school on the undergrad-
uate level.

Since 1958 various groups of the
students and the faculty have active-
ly worked for this day. Students have
been arrested in sit-in demonstrations.
The North Carolina Baptist State Con-
vention has repeatedly adopted reso-
lutions urging integration at all of its
related colleges. The committee pre-
senting the most recent resolution was
the Christian Life Committee.

In the words of the Old Gold and
Black:

“The complete desegregation
of the College is perhaps the sin-
gle most important step which
could have been taken to consum-
mate our pride in and respect for
Wake Forest. For lifting: the Col-
lege from the mire of outmoded
tradition and prejudice and plac-
ing it in a free and unbiased con-
text of leadership, we extend to
the Trustees our sincere grati-
tude, and our hearty congratula-
tions for a job well done.”

We cangratulate Wake Forest.

In 1954 the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian Church in the United
States adopted a resolution drawn up
before the historic Supreme Court de-
cision. This resolution affirmed the
belief in the rightness of having no
racial barriers in education.

The General Assembly at that
time did “especially urge . . . trustees
of institutions of higher education
belonging to the General Assembly
adopt a policy of opening the doors of
these institutions to all races.”

In Georgia, a major breakthrough

has been made in the realm of the
rivate church-related liberal arts col-

ege. Agnes Scott has announced plans
to desegregate. The Presbyterian af-
filiated school has voluntarily decided
to offer a quality education to any
qualified student, regardless of skin

Death Of Dissent

In accord‘ with other collegiate
journalists across the country, the
editor, immediate past editor, and an
associate editor of THE DAVIDSON-
IAN signed this week a petition re-
questing presidential action against
the McCarran Act (the Subversive Ac-
tivities Control Act of 1950). The pe-
tition is part of a nationwide protest
of college editors concerned that the
right of dissent of all U.S. citizens and
their fpeedom of the press be unquali-
fiably defended against blind fear and
political opportunism.

Most recently, Attorney General
Robert F. Kennedy exercised the Mc-
Carran Act in prosecuting the Ameri-
can Communist Party and its news-
paper, The Worker. Philip Bart, vet-
eran Communist, James Jackson, edi-
tor of The Worker, Gus Hall, leading
spokesman, and Party Secretary Ben-
jamin J. Davis (Amherst College, Har-
vard Law School) are now under ar-
rest for refusing to register under the
Act as foreign agents earlier this
spring. Free on bail, they are navigat-
ing a system of courts which will un-
doubtedly end in long prison sen-
tences.

_The McCarran Act imposes
stringent demand for the self-registra-
tion of any organization labeled “‘sub-
versive,” and then provides for harsh
penalties to fall on the heads of those
stupid enough to register. (In two
states registration means automatic
imprisonment without trial. To regis-
ter in any state is to convict and sen-
tence oneself as a “subversive” under
the terms of the Act. By registering,
the individual automatically cancels
his constitutional rights under the

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

color. This will definitely be en-
acted in the 1963-64 school year.
We congratulate Agnes Scott.

Emory University has felt strong-
ly enough about state-imposed sanc-
tions, directed against private schools
that would adopt a nondiscriminatory
admissions policy, that it has taken
the matter to the courts. Emory has
questioned the constitutionality of
this law. The Methodist related school
has declared, contrary to the law, that
it was not established in the first place
for only the white race.

We wish Emory the best in its ef-
forts.

Four out of nine schools in the
Southern Conference (West Virginia
U., William and Mary, V.P.L, and
George Washington) have af least a
partial official policy of admission
without regard to race.

The contention that Negroes, as
a race, are innately less intelligent
than Caucasians is no longer regarded
as valid in most circles. Educational
institutions in the South are coming
more and more to agree that the in-
herent worth of the individual will be
the major determining factor in get-
ting a college degree.

Belief in the rights and value of
the individual was one of the princi-
ples that this country was founded on.
The Christian movement was thought
revolutionary because it did empha-

size individual worth and freedom. |

Traditionally the church has proven
that it can take the lead in showing
a society its moral obligations, as hu-
man being to other human beings.
The church-related institution stands
firmly within this tradition.

In recent polls, the majority of
faculty and students at Davidson have
shown that they feel it ‘in the best
interest” to stand within this tradition.

Wake Forest, Agnes Scott, and
Emory University feel it in their best
interests to stand within this tradi-

on.

Again, we congratulate them .. .
for taking the lead. BH

Fifth Amendment.)

Once its members are “register-
ed,” it is impossible for an organiza-
tion to continue to function. The given
organization is denied normal tax de-
ductions, its mail stamped “subver-
sive,” and job sibilities for its mem-
bers are nil. Members of a registered
organization can be punished by a
five year prison sentence for even at-
tempting apply for any sort of pass-
port.

As collegiate journalists, we do
not express in our petition any over-
weening love of the Communists, their
aims, methods, or conclusions. But
there are adequate statutes on the
books to penalize violence or espion-
age. Our concern is what de Tocque-
ville and Mill saw as the “tyranny of
the majority,” a danger to freedom of
dissent present: in all democratic so-
cieties which is supposedly checked
by the provisions of the First Amend-
ment.

Blind public fear has led oppor-
tunistic politicians to support the Me-
Carran Act and thereby a double
standard with regard to constitutional
liberties. When the Act was passed in
1950, it was vetoed by President Tru-
man, and opposed by the Departments
of State, Justice and Defense. Attor-
ney General J. Howard McGrath saw
it as evidence of “hysteria.”

President Kennedy, then Senator
from Massachusetts, favored the Act.
We hope he will seriously reconsider
his stand now. But if he also is a pris-
oner of emotional public opinion, he
will turn our petition over to the FBI

as evidence of “Communist infiltra-
tion in the colleges.”

David Dillard
Ed Willer

‘At Least f’'ve Got A Tan’

Wit.

In Defense Of Diversity---
A Reply And A Challenge

BY JEFF WAMPLER
Davidsonian Managing Editor

When he was interviewed in
connection with his recent visit
to Davidson, Secretary of State
Dean Rusk was asked if he felt
that Davidson had become too
diversified; if perhaps the ex-
tent of the various programs of
athletics, drama, college publi-
cations, and the fine arts were
unjustified in view of the aca-
demic pressures at the. college.

DIVERSE PROGRAM

Rusk replied that he did not
feel them unjustified, and that
in his opinion the liberal arts
college should contain a diverse
program of courses and extra-
ewricular activities in order to
cultivate the various talents of
members of the student body.

There have been objections of
late that since the average Dav-
idson student is not possessed
of the multitude of abilities of
a Dean Rusk or a Henry Shue,
and spends a large part of his
time outside the classroom

LETTERS TO

studying, perhaps athletics, or

drama, or college publications,

or the fine afts should be de-

emphasized, and more concen-

tration be placed on subjects of

a strictly academic nature:
LACK TIME

In short, since most students
don't have time for many of
these extra-curricular activities,
less stress should be given them.
“ John Henry Newman, in The
tdea of a University, has this
to stay. about diversity in the
college program:

“If (the student's) reading is
confined simply to one subject,
however such division of labor
may favor the advancement of
a particular pursuit, ... . cer-
tainly it has a tendency to con-
tract his mind. If it is incor-
porated with others, it depends
on those others as to the kind
of influence which it exerts on
him.”

e e e

“It is a great point then to
enlarge the range of studies
which a University professes,

THE EDITOR

D-Club Expresses Thanks
To Cheerleaders, Martin

D-Club

Dear Editor:

This year there has been a
definite rise in school spirit,
especially in the field of ath-
letics. There are several reasons
for this, which are known to
all, but we would like to point
out the work of the Cheerlead-
ers, who have done an outstand-
ing job in a needed area.

For the first time in its
history, Johnston Gym was
filled to capacity and specta-
tors turned away. An increase
in attendence has also been
noticed at most other events.
Above all, the crowds were
interested in the outcome and
the Cheerleaders helped ex-
press this interest with their
cheers and antics.

Without listing the innumer-.
able tasks which each Cheer-
leader did, outside of pep ral-
lies and notices of events, the
D-Club would like to speak for
all the school teams in express-
ing their sincere thanks for a
job well done.

Special credit should go to
Joe Mertin, who put much
time and effort into securing
Peter Marshall Ney, 111, as
the school mascot. This pos-

Ferris

Dear Editor:

During Mr. Bumgardner's
visit this past week, the few
who bothered to see his works
or attend his lectures came
away with the same mystified
air. Like all artists, he seems
beyond comprehension. Most of
us regard the artists as a strange
breed, hanging out in smoky
cafes. He’s simply different from
normal people. .

Why is the artist today a
strenger to his own society?
in Greek and Renaissance cul-
tures, for example, artists
held the most respected posi-
tions. The public recognized
the artist for his creativeness
and respected him according-
ly.

This situation no longer exists
today. But why? We certainly
have enough wealth to support
artists as the Greeks and Ital-
ians did.

What is it we lack? I think
it is culture. In the midst of all
our wealth we have turned from
art. Art isn’t practical. It does-
n't teach us how to earn a dol-
lar or set us shaking with
laughter as the T.V. comedian.
Art requires a sensitive effort
to understand which our philis-

Associate Editors News Editor . Charles Dibble
Photographers ___. Joe McCutchen
Tom Anderson
Dan Adams
Joe Howell
Walter MacDonald
Advertising Manager — Charlie Smith
Greg Go Circulation Manager — Malcolm Lane
B's | Assistant Bus. Manager — Rick Finch

Entered as Second Cless Metter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Ceroline,
under Act of March 9, 1879.

Bill Hagen
Mae Plaxico
Bill Ruth
David Stitt

Assistant Editor

Managing Editors Cartoonists

Jeff Wampler
Bill Pridgen
Assignments Editor _.. Bob Bethel

Sports Editor
Feature Editor

tine society has destroyed.
| do not deny that the art-
ist has deliberately turned
from the public with his
works. Why shouldn't he say
to hell with his audience when
their testes are hopelessly
dulled by materialistic values?

session alone hes been a great
morale booster for the school
teams and has also given the
Student Body something tan-
gible end unique of which it
may be proud.

We hope the Student Body
will continue to lend their sup- Our criticisms of art are self:
port to these men as Davidson indicting; for it is our own in-
goes forward into some fine sensitiveness that has driven
years in sports. the artist from society.

The D-Club Bill Ferris

even for the sake of the stud-
ents; and, though they cannot
pursue every subject which is
open to them, they wil] be the
gainers by living among those
and under those who represent
the whole circle.”

*. * ¢@

“(Thus) he apprehends the
great outlines of knowledge, the
principles on which it rests, the
seale of its parts, its lights and
its shades, its great points and
its little, as he otherwise can-
not apprehend them. Hence it
is that his education is called
‘Liberal’.”

CONTRADICTION EXISTS

Davidson professes to be a
liberal arts college. Yet a con-
tradiction exists; for the var-
ious programs of athletics (at
least. until this year), drama,
college publications, and the
fine arts are paid only lip serv-
ice by many, not even that by
some. Why is this true?

The primary reason is that
the student body at Davidson.
is composed mainly of men of
the same general middle-class,
Southern, business and profes-
sional background.

Because of this, we tend to
agree on many basic questions
about education, and therefore
ignore any exploration of them.
As a result, the majority of our
conversations deal with ques-
tions about girls or fraternities
or dance weekends—important
questions, yes; but not vital.

SIMILAR BACKGROUNDS

Part of the responsibility for
the lack of diversity in the
student body lies with the Ad-
missions Board. In their search
for the best possible students
for Davidson, they have tended
to select men of amazingly
similar backgrounds.

This is due partly to the tre-
mendous pressure exerted upon
the Board by alumni, who want
their sons to be educated at
Davidson; alumni who are the
middle-class, Southern, business
and professional people.

The Admissions Board needs
to realize that the vitality and
effectiveness of a college de-
pend largely on the differences
that exist within itself, differ-
ences which stimulate physical,
intellectual, and aesthetic
growth.

STUDENT APATHY

But much of the responsibili-
ty lies with the students. David.
son is fortunate to have a dozen
Richardson Scholars on the cam-
pus each year, yet the questions
asked these men of varying
backgrounds and cultures are
generally on the level of, “How
do you like America?” or “What

do you think of American

women?”

And so a challenge. A chal-
lenge to the Admissions Board
to bend every effort to find
students with varied enough

backgrounds to promote a kind .

of intellectual tension within
the student body. And a chal-
lenge to the students to wake
up to the opportunities for new
and stimulating experiences
which lie in those around them.
It’s time we realized the vital
need for diversity in the truly
liberally educated man.

|» ByMaDerald American Policy;

Identity & Mission

GY HENRY SHUE

(EDITOR'S NOTE: At the request af THE DAVIDEONIAN, Rhodes
Scholar Henry Shue %1 has written the fellewing article. Shue
ees president of the student bedy, 1960-61, end Is now studying,in
Merten Collage, Oxford Usiiversity, England. We feel thet Shue's
article is an insightful ettempt te outline end defend the geyche-
logy of o “liberal” view of US. foreign policy.)
Pull down thy vanity
How mean thy hates
Fosteret! in falsity
Pull down thy vanity
Rathe to destroy, niggard in charity

— Ezra Pound

(By quoting Ezra Pound, who committed treason, I have
doubtless already disqualified myself in the eyes of the
Super-Patriots from the right to reflect on what it means
to be an American. I must point out that according to my
manual of logic based on observations of the HUAC the
fact that the Italian government for which Pound broad-
casted was Fascist and therefore Anti-Communist means
that Pound was actually but unknowingly a dupe of the
John Birch Society and you might say that Pound was the
last Anti-Communist casualty of the Second World War.)

As far as I know, it can make sense from the per-
spective of psychology, theology, and philosophy to say
that the identity of an individual both determines and is
determined by his situation—the self is reciprocally inter-
related with all that is not the self, the ‘person is in a
context of God-ward and man-ward relationships, etc.
Of course a man may fail to examine and fail to under-
stand both his identity and his situation—perhaps most
men do fail to understand—and this failure itself becomes
one more influencing factor.

SELF-EXAMINATION

Analogous comments are applicable to nations and
their identities, or definitions. The intellectual atmos-
phere in England is one of political self-examination at a
national level, produced by the conceivable implications
of a British decision to join the Common Market and the
fact that America, not Britain or any other European
nation, is clearly now the leader of the West in terms at
least of brute power. Is the British Prime Minister still
the equal of the American President, although “Jess
equal” than he once was? Will the identity of an English-
man vis-a-vis an American or a German be something —
different in the context of a United States of Europe (Be
it federation? Confederation?) from what it is (What is
it?) in the context of NATO and the UN? Surely it will,
but in what respect?
___ One’s sight may be impaired in a number of ways,
including total blindness and myopia. In one respect
blindness is preferable to nearsightedness. The blind can
hardly avoid attaining insight into what they can and
ought to do, but the myopic often fail to grasp how limit-
ed their vision is. In a world with horizons as widespread
as ours the difference between the blind and the myopic
—between the ignorant and those with a little learning—
is negligible, except that the latter have greater vanity.
One of the first tasks in deciding what being an American
means is obtaining a clear view of the context of our iden-
tity and role collectively as a nation. 1 add “and role” be-
cause it seems inane to try to talk about “is” without dis-
cussing “does”, and I would substitute “mission” for
“role” since I believe this drama is not a farce.

BLISSFUL IGNORANCE

Perhaps all I have said appears obvious—I hope so.
But many Englishmen: think, and I agree, that far too
many Americans high and low are living in either blissful
ignorance or neurotic repression of the non-self—of the
genuine needs and sincere hopes of those billions whom
we call foreigners. The J. Kennedy-Rusk-Stevenson-Mc-

Namara-R. Kennedy group is largely exempt from this

criticism of blindness, myopic, ignorance, repression or
whatever you choose to call it.

During the months I. have been in England I have
been able to hold my head high as an American, because
these names have been said with respect and admiration,
and sometimes even envy or reverence. The men men-
tioned surely do not agree in nearly all respects and are
not always right, but they share the fact of having clear
and distant vision—the ability to see the identity of
America in the spatio-temporal, politico-socio-economic
context which is really there. These men at least realize
that nationality cannot even be defined without refer-
ence to the international context.

_ Then there are those other Americans whose vision
is obstructed by the size of their megaphones and who,
like nothing more than sophomore cheerleaders in high
school, whirl round and round on the same spot screech-
ing: “‘Annihilate the Commies! Why Not Victory?! Rah!
Rah! Rah!”, and don’t even know how to distinguish which
players are on which team. Most of the “natives” at Ox-
ord with whom I have talked (1 am the foreigner in this
context.) have trouble believing that the Radical Right
really exists. “They don’t really believe what they say?”,
with amazement—"“Do they?”, with horror.
SUPER-PATRIOTS IMMORAL

Surely being an American does not mean embodying
an ethnocentric spirit different from African tribalisns
only in the color of the tribe members and the power of
their weapons. I believe that it is both immoral and self-
defeating to follow the example of the Super-Patriots, by
whom I mean most of the followers of Robert Welch and
many of the followers of Senator Goldwater, in using
moralistic language and religious fervor to pursue nation-
ally self-centered goals.

_ I shall not attempt a neat definition of what I do
think an American is, but I suggest that the answer lies
in the direction of asking: what has America a right to
demand from those with whom we share this world and
how can we give commensurately with our endowment.
Let us not muddy permanently the only spring there is
for quenching anyone’s thirst by jumping into it with
our great big American boots in our urgency to see that
we at least get exactly as much as we want.

THATS RIDICULOUS ‘How COULD
A WOLF BLOW A HOUSE DOWN?

