FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1962

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BY STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

“Our boys really want
this one!”’ proclaimed Coach
Lefty Drieseli as he talked
about tonight’s clash be-
tween his Davidson five and
Belmont Abbey in Char-
lotte’s Park Center at 8
o'clock.

Driesell's resurgent Wildcats,
who have conquered their last
6 foes, would like nothing better
than to make the highly regard-
ed Crusaders their 7th straight
victim.

ANOTHER LINK

ti ‘ The most recent link in the
“HAIL, JARMAN!” an unidentified Alebama player (out- victory chain was added this
stretched arm) appears to be saying as Wildcat ace BILL JARMAN past Tuesday night in Spartan-
(No. 10) drops in an easy two in the ‘Cats 73-67 trouncing of the burg, S. C., where the Wildcats
Tide. (Davidsonian Photo by Joe McCutchen) built up a 17 point halftime
a I Ii Ry lead, and then coasted home for
lia 7455 win over Wofford. Ap-
plying a full court press at the
opening tipoff, Davidson forced
the erratic Wofford ball hand-
lers into costly mistakes, and
rang up a 193 lead before the

Sideline

*

Cai

/

Comments

3

-_.

By STEVE CLARK

FORMER WILDCAT RUSK
FOLLOWS TEAM |

Just prior to the Davidson-George Washington

his men received the following telegram:

Dec. 11, 1961 | in their first two outings.

The Tech swimmers are con-
'sidered one of the two best
}teams in the conference along
| with VMI. They were very im-
| pressive in their carlier meet
against William & Mary

The best of the Gobblers in-

Dean Rusk clude the following contenders
Secretary of State for conferena® honors: Mike
Mr. Rusk didn’t find Davidson in the win column in Stener, backstroke ace; Tommy
next morning’s paper as the Colonials thumped the ’Cats, Tomlinson; Steve West; and Jim
95-77, but Driesell-sent a letter of thanks anyway Grossman, holder of the con-
Monday morning Driesell received another note from ference’s 10Qyd. and 200-yd.
the famous Davidson graduate. This time he was con- breaststroke records.
gratulating the team for the win over The Citadel. Dwight Shoe, Wildcat mentor
Rusk was captain of the Davidson basketball team stated, “We're in fine condition,
in 1931. When he comes to the campus on February 22, | but we're lacking in depth, and
Driesell plans to take him to the gym to watch the squad the rest of the season is going
workout. Perhaps the former athlete and Rhodes Scholar | to be an uphill grind.”
will have a few words of inspiration for an all ready| Led by Carter Mebane, dis-
fired up band of Wildcats. i “| tance events; Tom French, back-

WIN STREAK PRESENTS PROBLEMS | Stroke; and Captain Stefan

For the first time in a long time, the seating capacity |
of Johnston Gymnasium is presenting a problem. The
recent surge by the basketball team has caused an in-
crease in attendance. In four games, attendance has aver-
aged about 1800 per game.

This increase is presenting somewhat of a pleasant
problem for Dr. Tom Scott and. his staff down in-the athle-
tic department. The seating capacity of the gym is listed
at 3000. However, there were 2000 people at The Citadel
game, and we don’t know where an additional thousand |
bag have sat. It would have been like a can of sar-

ines.

If the interest in basketball continues to rise around
here (and after watching the freshman and varsitv teams
in action, we don’t see why it shouldn’t), some extra
stands are going to have to be thrown un somewhere in
the small confinements of Johnston Gym.

And while they’re building more seats, why not in-
Stall a new scoreboard? The clock on the present one is
deceiving as the devil. Even from the stands it is hard
to tell the exact time remaining. Imagine what it’s like
from the court where a man is poking his fingers in your
eyes.

Bill Jarman, Wildcat scoring ace, suggests, “We,
definitely need a new clock. That would be a good project |
for some club or group on campus.”

Incidentally, the present clock was a gift from the
class of 1949.

Getting back to the attendance splurge, Driesell and
the team are all for it. Savs the young mentor, “Support
has been real good so far. The boys and I really appre-
ciate it. I just hope the students keep it up.”

And we hope you and the bovs keep up the winning
ways, Mr, Driesell.

Coach Charles G. Driesell
Davidson Basketball Team
Fort Myer Post Gymnasium
Fort Myer, Va.

_ Good luck to you and members of team in
tonight's game. | will be looking for Davidson’s
scores in win column this season.

good season, however, at the
same time he cites a rigorous
schedule.

The 'Cats first meet, for in-
stance, will be the VMI relays
on February 3. The competition

such stiff stalwarts as Navy and
Maryland to the best of the
Southern Conference partici-
pants—Furman and VMI.

Later the winter trackmen
will cast their lots in the an-
nual Southern Conference Meet,
the non-conference division of

frustrated Terriers could score
a field goal.

High man for Davidson was
again Bill Jarman, whose 9 goals
gave him 18 points before foul
ing out

D. G. Martin turned in anoth
er stellar defensive perform
ance, and the Wildcat captain
tossed in 15 points. Sophomore
Terry Holland contributed 12
markers.

POWERHOUSE

Coach Al MeGiure’s Belmort
Abbey unit has acquired a repu-
tation as a small college power-
house in recent years. Last year
the small Catholic school was
ranked among the nation’s best
in the small college ranks.

Despite heavy graduation
losses, this year’s Abbey contin-
gent is again strong. Paced by
Bernie Brennan, hard-driving
guard, and Joe McDermott and
Bill Ficke, big men, who can
score and rebound with consis-
tency, the Crusaders have com-

Hish Entertain

VPI's Aces Today

The Davidson swimmers hung their undefeated |
| record on the line this afternoon, when thev entertained |
skeet}: PEN. Te GE ‘ | VPI in the local pool. It was the first’conference outing |
basketball game. back in December, Lefty Driesell’ and for the mermen. who dunked Appalachian and Clemson

Young, breaststroke, the ‘Cat
swimmers were in hopes of
surprising the favored boys from
Blacksburg

Other Davidson hopefuls in-
clude Bill Ambrose, John Baum,
Roy Alexander, Bud Fry, John

Rankin, Bob McDonald, Deats
Van Der Zee, and Charlie
Shapard.

Diving, perhaps the strongest
point on the Davidson team, is
supplied by three better-than
average divers in Dick Fromm,
Dan King, and Bill Whittington

A strong Davidson freshman
team, led by John Alexander.
Jim Grey, and Purk Purkenson.
will not have another meet until
February 5, when they travel to
The Citadel with the varsity.

Indoor Tracksters
Prep For VMI Relays

BY JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Though partially riddled by reviews and pre-exam
studies. the indoor tracksters got off to what Coach Heath
Whittle terms “a strong start’ on Monday.

Looking over the forces that the Atlantic Coast Conference | accuracy with a 45.9 percentage;

did muster, the veteran David- Meet, and the Big Five Meet) Ist in free throw accuracy with
son mentor sees promise fora (N. C. State, Duke, Wake Forest, 'an 85.9 percentage; and 8th in

UNC, and Davidson).
To encounter such rigorous

competition, Whittle is depend-
ing on his relay team of John
Harris, Bob Cordle, Ken Kelley,
and John Sharpe. Also Cordle

there will run the gauntlet from and Kelley will bolster the 'Cats |

in dash and hurdle events, re-
spectively.

In field events, Whittle is
looking for support from Keith
Fraser in the high jump.

Whittle also reports a prom-
ising crop of freshmen, led by
Terry Williams, Chester Davis,
Tommy Hefner, and Denny Phil-
lips

Frosh Show Potential

Sizzling Cats Risk Streak
Against Belmont Abbey Tonight

pitied an 8-2 record

“They're not any taller than
us,’ commented Joe Hunt, Wild
cat coach, “but they
have a lot more meat on them.’
Ficke and McDermott
even. at 6-6, and both weigh well
over 200 pounds.

assistant

stand

Hunt scouted the Abbey when

they rolled over Presbyterian
88-71. “They're a strong, well
balanced ball club,” admits
Hunt

FANS BUBBLE

There are several reasons for
the Wildcats’ recent success,
which has students and fans
bubbling with an enthusiasm
bordering on a state of ecstasy
The main reason is Jarman, who
is still the team’s most consist
ent scorer. The 6-5 redhead is
pouring the ball into the hoop

ERRY HOLLAND, 6-7 Wildcat sophomore,
ery major department of conference cage stalistics.
number seven in a row ton’ ght
siost Belmont Abbey in Charlotte.

elite in ¢
He and his mates seek victory

ag

Holland

}

| rt

a sophomore.

The Southern Conference sta
tistics released at the beginning
|of the weck show that Holland
lranks in the top ten in every
|major individual statistic. The
| 6-7 forward, this week's “Wild-
cat of the Week,” is listed
| being 10th in scoring with a
17.5 average; 10th in field goal

|
|
as

| rebounding with 9.8 per game.

} The most elated person over
| Holland’s success is, naturally,
| Lefty Driesell. Driesell knew all
| along that the Clinton, N. C., na-

Cage Spotlight

PAGE THREE

at a 23.9 clip—2nd in the South-
ern Conference.

Fortunately, Holland ho: tak-
en some the early season load
off Jarman's shoulders recently
The 6-7 sophomore’ has a 17.1
average—10th in the conference
Perhaps tne recent surge can
contributed to Martin more
than anyone else. The 63 senior
forward has been all over the
floor on defense by going after
the ball in a way that would put
a gleam in any football coach's
eyes.

Following the Belmont Abbey
game, the ‘Cats take a “break”
for semester examinations. After
the exam period Erskine will
be in Johnston Gymnasium on
Thursday night, February 1. On
Saturday, February 3, Davidson
travels to Williamsburg, Va., for
a conference battle with William
& Mary.

be

WILL IT DROP? wonder Davidson and Aiapama piayers
alike as they gaze at TERRY HOLLAND’s (No. 42) jump shot. It
did, as did most of the Wildcats’ shots in their third victory of a
present six game winning streak. (Davidsonian Photo by Joe
McCutchen)

Loop’s Bullies, ‘VPI.
Visit Local Mats

IGEN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

|

Davidson's wrestlers take a 3-2 record onto the mats
tonight when they meet VP I’s Gobblers in Johnston
Gymnasium. The freshman match starts at 7 p.m.; the
varsity begins at 8 p.m.

Parker praised some of the
freshmen wrestlers highly. He
mentioned Mike Bizzard, 123-

VPI, defending champions of
the Southern Conference, are
| depicted by Charlie
| Parker as being “tougher than pounder, who is the only unde-
| anybody we have met. so far.” feated freshman this year. Biz-
|'They have lost only one match zard has.a 3-0 record. The coach
; also referred to Joe Parker as

Coach

so far this year—-to Navy
| The local matmen. suffered “the freshman we're really look-
| their second loss of the season ing for help from next, year, al-
Tuesday night, bowing 25-6 to a though he has not w restled any
tough Citadel team at Charles. this year because of. a broken
ton, S. C. ankle.”

Making the trin to Charleston —
without many of their regular '
starters (including Ben MeCoy, Furman And Cats
Jim Alexander, Tom Wright,

is among the

and Ken Barger), the D | D $f tc
Wildeats could do was ace 00 q
sensational Jerry
Smith maintains a smal! margin
Sam Glasgow, a sophomore | over Davidson's Bill Jarman in
147-pounder, carned a victory in) the race for the Southern Con-
his first match this season, and. ference individual scoring lead
Russel! Walls, also a sophomore, statistics show. The Paladin’s
defeated The Citadel's heavy- junior has a 26.5 mark, while the
weight. Wildcats’ junior is 23.9.
Davidson forfeited the 123- In other individual depart-
pound class since neither Wright | ments Davidson and Furman

best the
to take
victories in two weight classes
from the Bulldogs

Furman’s

Enters

ere’s an old saving that statistics don’t always tell nor Barger could make the trip.| players are also the pace set-
| the story. But if they mean anything at all, Terry Holland
| has come of age in the college basketball world while only | as follows: 123—Jasinski

The results of the match were ters. In field goal accuracy Jar-
(C) man is top man with a 55.9 per-
| won by forfeit; 130—Barcello | centage, while in free throw
(C) defeated Wray; 137—DiMil-' activity Davidson's Terry Hol-
lio (C) defeated Dobbins; 147— land leads all others with an
Glasgow (D) defeated Willard; 85.9 mark. 65 Gerald Glur of
Be b : E 157—Hartsell (C) defeated Le- Furman tops all rebounders with
fe oes oe Doyen; 167—Stork (C) defeated a 17.8 average.
pe — * Brown; 177—Crisman (C) de-| In team statistics, West Vir-
night Davidson broke into the “ sree i :
: é »,, feated Day; and heavyweight— ginia is the leading offensive
win column. He poured in 39 ‘ . :
: : : Walls (D) defeated Reiney. team with 83.2 points a game,
points (which tied the school “user sine :
Parker is optimistic about the and the Mountaineers are the
record set three games earlier RR ts , ae
: a team’s chances for the remain-| stingiest team also with a de-
by Bill Jarman against George | } :
uibiesiedd, aed the Gils bo der of the season, and states, | fensive average of 70.3. VPI has
sponser atts . 11068 uitin “The team is doing okay, and if| the best field goal percentage
B aaccaneiia pool : we can get all our men back} (43.9); Davidson the best free
8 th i << ee ' together after exams, we have a/| throw percent mark (77.3); and
° he | good chance of winning the rest | West Virginia, the best rebound

ence wins over William & Mary | i
anit ‘Who Citeilal lest week, Mol. | or SO See

land was again high man with 21}
and 26 points respectively.

tive would have to come through
if this year’s Wildcat five ex-
pected to do anything at all

| MEET YOUR FRIENDS

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE STANDINGS |

| West Virginia
Furman

George Washington
Richmond

Davidson

VPI

VMI

William & Mary
The Citadel

AT THE

ae et GONDOLA RESTAURANT

: @ 10 3} W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
ey | CHARLOTTE

3 5. 6 WHILE ENJOYING

s. 3 4 9] THE BEST

Py oa :

2 4 3 6 _ PITA and SPAGHETTI

1 6 3 9 Ue pllleaec

Davidson’s freshman cagers flexed their potentially
great basketball muscles again last night by thumping
Clemson, 84-68, on the Baby Tigers’ home court.

Fred Hetzel paced the ‘Kit-
en victory with 23 points and
22 rebounds, Charlie Marcon
and Dave Thomas contributed
19 points each, while Don David-
son bucketed 14.

The game was played just
prior to the Duke-Clemson var-
sity game.

So far this season the Wild-
kittens have displayed tremend-

The 'Kittens get another crack

20—Duke, here.

The frosh are averaging 84.1
points a game, and have limited
their opponents to 67.3 per
game, Against two Southern
Conference foes they have scor-
ed over 100 points—110 against
Furman and 104 against The
Citadel.

68 Fred Hetzel of Washing-
ton, D. C., leads the team with a
21.1 average.

Scoring averages (not includ-
ing last night's game) are as
follows:

Fred Hetzel 21.1
Don Davidson 143
Charlie Marcon 13.5
Dave Thomas 12.1
Phil Squier 9.1
Paul Briggs 90
Barry Teague 45
Tommy White 2.8
John Barrow 1

TRY OUR DAILY SPECIAL LUNCHEON:
CHOICE OF MEAT,
TWO VEGETABLES, HOT ROLL,
TEA OR COFFEE WITH DESSERT

ONLY . —— ae

WE ALSO SPECIALIZE IN
PIZZA PIES

All Our Food Prepared By
“JEFF THE CHEF”

ALL KINDS OF SANDWICHES
COLD DRINKS

CONNOISSEUR RESTAURANT

NORTH MAIN, MOORESVILLE

