STITT REPORTS
ON ACP CONFERENCE

(See Page Two)

e Dauidsoniar

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

FOOTBALLERS TRY
TO ESCAPE CELLAR

(See Page Three)

VOL. Li

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1962

NUMBER NINE

The students who are dissatisfied with the present
yor gs rule outnumber the students on campus who

rink.

This is assuming that the 540 students polled Tues-
day by THE DAVIDSONIAN represent a valid cross-sec-
tion of the entire student body.

Of those polled, 66% said they drink, while
68% ressed dissatisfaction with the present rule.
S s ranged from abolishing all restrictions
on drinking to prohibiting all drinking.

Abolishment of the regulations restricting off-cam-
pus drinking found the most favor with the 68% dis-'
senting. Nearly all of this group, which included a full |
third of the non-drinkers, rejected the contention that
the college should restrict off-campus drinking of any)
sort.

In the words of a senior, “The drinking rule in re-
gard to off-campus restriction is absurd and will never
be enforced or upheld. It’s time the faculty got realistic
and faced the facts of life.” “There are often some oc-
casions on school-sponsored trips that call for and often
pressure a student to drink socially,” seconded a sopho-
more. “Why not?”

Twenty-three students asked for further clarifica-
tion of the present rule. Seventeen criticized what they |
termed the “hypocrisy” of the statement fraternity presi- |
dents are required to submit after each dance weekend
regarding drinking rule infra : lesser
and asked that it be dropped. Only eight were dissatis-
fied because the present rules are not strict enough.

On the twin questions of allowing the possession and
consumption of alcohol on — (both now prohibited),
opinions were more divided. A though the seventh ques-

1, Do you drink?
66% Yes.

(1960 — 62%)
. Have you ever drunk “while attending any off-cam-

pus event sponsored entirely or in part by Davidson

College”’?
26% Yes.

i)

its interpretation?
68% No.

on campus?
37° Yes:
5.

(1960 — not asked)
. Are you satisfied with the present drinking rule and

(1960 — 88%)
. Have you ever kept any form of alcoholic beverages

(1960 — 64%)
Do you at present have some form of alcoholic bever-

age in your automobile or in some other place?

15% Yes. (1960 — 28%)
6. Do you, or have you ever consumed any form of al-
coholic beverage while on capus?
29% Yes (1960 — 19%)
7%. (a) What is vour attitude toward allowing students to
have alcohol on the Davidson campus?
53% In Favor. (1960 — 72%)
(b) How would you feel about having limited consump-
tion of alcoholic beverages on campus?

42% In Favor.

(1960 — 41°)

a a a a a a a

tion had two parts, most students answered them as one.

ctions they have witnessed, Several questioned whether it would be feasible to allow

possession and prohibit consumption.
Students arguing against both proposals used

two main arguments.

A

freshman‘s statement,

“Hattie’s is not too far.”, was echoed by members
of all classes. Some used this argument: “Because

Pupils: Alcohol Has Low Boiling Point

Davidson is supposed to be a religiously-oriented
college, it has a duty to keep alcohol completely off
the campus.”

Students favoring possession but not consumption
usually designated locked automobile trunks or similarly
secured cabinets in fraternity houses. They had two argu-
ments for preventing consumption while permitting stor-
age on campus in addition to modifications of the above
two.

“There is no such thing as limited consumption,”
stated a senior. His fears were repeated by more than
half of the total number taking the survey, including half
of those favoring limited on-campus consumption.

“The academic atmosphere which still remains would

be shot to hell,’ commented one senior who admitted to
having drunk in his room. This conviction was voiced by
many opposed to allowing consumption on campus, but
almost none of those favoring limited consumption.
Degree of limitation was the major problem for those
favoring both possession and consumption. The most pre
valent idea, expressed by a freshman teetotaler, was that
drinking be allowed in fraternity houses only and to al-
low this only on dance weekends. He suggested that this
would cut down on automobile accidents by rendering
unnecessary off-campus excursions in order to drink.
Others suggested declaring the fraternity court off-
campus on weekends, or allowing students to drink any-

where except in the dorms. A freshman proposed allow-
ing only wine and beer on campus.

A fringe consisting of nearly 10% of all those tak-
ing the poll expressed a wish for no limitations whatso-
ever. “Why limited?”, asked a junior.

Students in favor of on-campus consumption
used the “maturity” theme as their major argument,
backing it up with the suggestion that other rules
could be invoked to prevent ungentlemanly conduct.

“This is supposed to be a college — not a womb,”
commented one. “Davidson students should be mature
enough to drink in moderation,” stated a senior.

“I believe rules should not concern themselves di-
rectly with drinking, but should regard personal conduct
and leave limitations to the self-discipline of each stud-
ent. Bestial behavior should be subject to regulations,”
proposed a non-drinking junior.

“IT believe the rules of common courtesy and eti-
quette accompanied by the rule on ungentlemanly con-
duct are quite adequate for the regulation of drinking at
Davidson,” stated a drinking sophomore.

Although less than half of the students has violated
rules on off-campus and on-campus drinking, breakdown
of the poll into class groups reveals that the violations
rise markedly from class to class

Frosh Soph Jun. Sr.
Ques, No.2: Yes: y 16% 37% 46%
Ques. No.4 Yes: 14% 31% 48% 62%

Ques. No.6. Yes: 6% 24% 44% 49%

A comparison of this survey with results taken from
the last two surveys breaking the percentage of drinkers
into classes also reveals a rise in drinkers. —

1962 1957 1954
Frosh * Do drink: 47% class was not polled
Soph Do drink: 61% 61% 43%
Jun Do drink: 76% 68% 50%
Sr. Do drink: 84% 67% 52%

Bible Scholar Dr. Glueck

Delivers Reynolds Lecture

BY JOHN TODD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dr. Nelson Glueck, noted Biblical scholar and arch-
aeologist and president of Hebrew Union College and the
Jewish Institute of Religion, will present the first of this
year’s Reynolds ‘Lectures next week.

On Monday, Nov. 12, at 4p.m., yet, no definite plans have been
Glueck will be at an informal made.
discussion session in the Dome The Reynolds Lectureship
Room of Chambers Building. Committee will honor Glueck at
The discussion will be of prim- a luncheon in the College Union
ary interest to the humanities on Tuesday at 1 p.m.
students; however, the meeting Glueck is one of the world’s
is open to anyone who wishes most noted historians on the
to attend. Holy Land. His latest book,

The first lecture will be giv- Rivers In the Desert, is an ac-
en on Monday evening at 8:15 count of his findings in 10 sea-
p.m. at a place to be announced. sons of exploring the southern
The title of this address will be desert of Israel, the Negev. Sev-
“Exploration and Excavation of eral other books have also been
Biblical Lands.” Glueck will il- written about his explorations.
lustrate his talks with slides. Many sites mentioned in the

At the 10:20 chapel period on Bible have been identified by
‘Yuesday, the topic of the second this famous archaeologist. He
and final lecture will be discovered King Solomon’s cop-
“Archaeology and the Bible.” per mines and also Solomon's
Following the program there port on the Red Sea, which had
will be an informal coffee hour been buried more than 2500
in the College Union. Glueck years when he discovered it.
also plans to visit some Bible Some people may remember
classes on Tuesday morning. As that Glueck gave the benedic-

Goodykoontz Quits Drama,
Reconsiders, Retains Post

Stowell Also Resigns
Effective Thanksgiving

After an event-filled week, it appears that the Vagabonds will not be leaderless

for the rest of the semester although Don Stowell, assistant director of dramaties, has

not changed his mind about resigning.

Stowell announced early this
week that he would resign his
position, effective Thanksgiv-
ing.

In an announcement posted
on a bulletin board of the Cun-
ningham Fine Arts Center, Sun-
day, Dr. William F. Goody-
koontz, director of dramatics,
also announced his planned
resignation from the drama pro-
gram.

As a result of a two-hour
talk with President D. G. Mar-
tin on Tuesday morning, how-
ever, Goodykoontz has chang-
ed his position and has stated

that he will continue in his
present position with the dra-
ma program.

Goodykoontz’s earlier decis-
ion to resign was brought on by
what he called “lack of co-opera-
tion by the administration.”

An excerpt from his public
statement reads as follows: “I
hope that the (drama) program
can be continued and even ex-
panded, but of course this is
not up to me (I've tried for two
years) but the administration.
It will require positive action
on their part to give the drama
program the kind of helpful co-

; tion at the inauguration of
D ; : T # st President Kennedy in 1961.

The National Science Foun-
dation will hold a meeting here
Nov. 9. About 70 representatives
from 50 colleges in Tennessee,
South Carolina, and North Caro-
lina are expected to be on hand.

The program which will large-
ly consist of a discussion group
will be directed to the small-
college student. Students will

Ferre’s

and God as thou

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

. with a smile.

Lectures, Coffees Sound Out
Traditionalist Fait

By the end of his visit Nels F. S. Ferre’s enthusiasm had somewhat slackened,
but he stilled laughed in his curious inhaling way and talked about Tillich, Barth,
they were old friends and neighbors.

went to the informal coffee

have a chance to question and
explore areas which interest
them.
There will be a morning and
afternoon session with David-
son furnishing a complimentary
lunch.

Prof J. G. Martin is in charge
of the arrangements.

ABREU F

his endurance run of formal and
informal discussions of “The
Finality of Faith” in Vespers.
Twice during his sermonesque
delivery he casually moved sev-
eral pages aside (someone had
told him it was to be an hour
long) leaving the listeners to

think it through for themselves

The 1962 Otts Lecturer began . .

hour after the service. Ferre
said that he was surprised at
the reaction of the Davidson
student body; there had ac-
tually been a worshipful atti-
tude. He was to be even more
impressed, and said so, with
the coffee hour turnout. Ques-
tions soon drew him to the
edge of his chair where he
poised as if over some press-
ing issue. He was a man with
initials after his name who
got into a bull session.

Ferre had a keen sense of
humor and knew when to use it,

More than once he mentioned
Paul Tillich, who really was a
neighbor of the next-door var-
iety. With dry humor Ferre al-
luded to the myths and post-
Christian era as though he were
merrily tramping through his
neighbor’s raked leaves.

So about thirty students

every time that he did. Most,
however, they caught, and so
. joined in with his inhaled haw-
haw. An instance was his re-
buttal of the separate aspects of
the triunity of God. ‘It is not as
though there were a commit-
tee meeting in Heaven and the
other two said, ‘You go.’”

even if everyone did not know!

operation it must have to sur-
vive.”

He went on to say that the
dramatics program at Davidson
could be saved only if: “...()
the administration acts soon—
very soon—to continue the
Vagabond program on a healthy
basis (that is, with their full
cooperation); and (2) if the
students . . . continue to give
their support.”

Dr. Goodykoontz said ‘that
he felt that certain technical
difficulties, such as an insuf-
ficient number of trained
lighting technicians, could
been corrected easily by the
administration. Their failure
to do so caused him to believe
that he did not have their

| at Davidson.

“The technical problems are
just surface difficulties of a
deeper and much more complex
problem,” he told THE DAVID-
SONIAN Sunday night. “Basical-
ly there is an issue in the type
of drama program that the ad-
ministration wants put on and
that I want to have. The presi-
dent told me when | started that
he wanted every student at Dav-
idson, if possible, to have some
type of dramatic or public
speech training. This is what I
am working toward in my full
schedule of plays and work-
shops.”

Goodykoontz went on to say
that the lack of co-operation he
had been receiving seemed to
| indicate that they “want a small
|dramatic group that puts on
, Only three or four plays a year
} aS a type of extracurricular ac-
| tivity.”

Harry L. Dalton of Charlotte,
last year’s chairman, installed
Little on Friday, Nov. 2, at a
banquet honoring the new board
officers and 18 new members
of the board. The new Vice
Chairman is John C. Bernhardt
of Lenoir.

A total of 54 members attend-
ed, including 11 of the new
members. The total membership
| of the board is composed of 81

| Since his meeting with the {leaders in American business,
president, he has changed his civic, educational and church
| stand: after the meeting, | life. Included are the 17 mem-
| Geodykeontz said, “1 am now bers of the Executive Commit-
| fully convinced that no one tee of the Board of Trustees.
| can be more sincere than The purpose of the board
President Martin in desiring | is to serve as an advisory
| the kind of dramatics pro- group to promote the educa-
| gram at Davidson that he said | tional effectiveness and gen-
| earlier that he wanted.” eral welfare of the college,

OBJECTS OF CONTROVERSY Dr. W. F.
support for the type of Pro- Goodykoontz and Don Stowell — the Davidson
gram he was trying to put on = Drama Departinent — created much turmoil

this week with their resignations. Goodykoontz
has withdrawn his, but Stowell’s stands. (Photo
by McCutchen).

Board Of Visitors Here
For Annual Gathering

BY JIMMY DOWNEY

introduced to Davidson's new
methods and approaches in
teaching drama, religion and
philosophy, the humanities, and
science.

The first seminar consisted
of a “Vagabond Sampler,” in
Hodson Hall. Eight selections
and dramatic excerpts from
famous plays were presented;
one selection was Toby Bethea’s
The Ballad of the Eight.

After an “Earlybird Coffee”
Nov. 3 and a Buffet Breakfast at
which Coach Charles “Lefty”
Driesell spoke about the pros-
pects of Davidson basketball,

Davidsonian Assistant News Editor
The Davidson College Board of Visitors held their seventh annual meeting Nov.
2-3. E. H. Little of New York City was named Chairman of the Board.

the second seminar was held.
H. E. White, associate di-
rector of admissions, entitled
Aris topic “Admission Com-
mittee Meeting.” He presented
a list of various prospective
students with the full qualifi-
cations of each prospect. He
then asked the Board of
Visitors to consider whether
each prospect could be accept-
ed or not to Davidson, and
then compared the answers
with what the actual Admis-
sion Committee ruling was.
in all cases except one, the
results were the same.
Following the admissions
“test” was a lecture and paper
entitled “Present Challenges to
the Christian Faith,” by Dr.
Earl MacCormac, assistant pro-
fessor of bible and philosophy.

In his paper he outlined the
several challenges, including the
rise of the Asian religions, and
the challenge of modern philo-
sophy and of modern science.

In the third seminar on Sat-
urday, Dr. Daniel Rhodes, pro-
fessor of religion and philoso-
phy, and Dr. Alexander Mce-
Geachy, professor of _ history,
jointly presented “A Glimpse
of the New Humanities Course,”
in the new Dome Room of Cham-
bers Building.

The name-dropping coterie of| Martin said in a DAVIDSON-| and to make recommendations
Davidson theologs was utterly|IAN interview Wednesday that through the Executive Com-
astounded. Besides the neighbor-| every department in the admin-| mittee of the Board of Trust-
ly references to Tillich there | istration would do all that could| ees for the betterment of the
was the controversy about an) possibly be done in support of| college.
afterlife. It seems that a grad- Goodykoontz's program. “I feel, During the two-day meeting,
uate student found out that, that Davidson needs a program) the board’s activities included
Barth did not believe in an after-| which provides a means of ex: | board meetings, dinners and
" life. Ferre was amazed. He tele-| pression for as many students; juncheons, attendance at the
: phoned Paul (Lehman, Harvard) | as can be reached,” the presi-| furman football game, and sem-
» who was also amazed. So he | dent commented. inar lectures.

Bell waits his wrote to Barth (“A very careful; “Drama is certainly one of the; ‘The program consisted prim-
by McCutchen) letter”), and, receiving no an-/Primary means on campus by |arily of a series of three sem-
(Continued On Page Four) (Continued On Page Four) inars in which the board was

i

E. H. LITTLE
