/

The Mavidsoanian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGES

PAGE TWO

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1962

(All Unsigned. Editorials by the Editor)

Three To Get Ready ...

The week is over and another
batch of freshmen have flopped weak-
ly into the exuberant arms waiting to
bring them in.

It has been rough.

Upperclass vocabularies have been
worn rather thin in talking about this
or that “sharp guy.” And how many
boys were you supposed to “really get
out and meet?”

Freshmen, of course, had no
mean job cutting through the gilt and
glitter. After the latest cliches about
the humanities course had been ex-
changed, what did you know about
that “sharp” bov except he could
manage a 17-tooth smile and shake
your hand off at the same time?

The picture presented to an out-
sider must be’ actually rather ludi-
crous. Two groups stumbling around a
circle awkwardlv trying to cope with
one another with X-2 parties to go.

The real questions must wait. The
fraternity and the freshman won't
really find out ‘‘who” and ‘“‘what you
are” until later—after pledging. Need-
less to say, the results are not always
entirely satisfactory.

It’s a big decision. And we think
that both sides need more time to
make it.

The Best Yet...

“I guess we used to be the best
Freshman class yet.”

“Yea, and look at us now.”

Such were the comments made as
we left chapel Thursday, smirking at
the familiar speeches about the best
Freshman class yet, the best faculty
yet, and the new plans for further im-
provement of the college’s physical
plant, faculty, and (with a little luck)
academic standing.

Yet Davidson’s 126th academic

year ought to be heralded in by more
than the dull thud of dropping into

the old, familiar rut, for many dreams .

of the past are being realized this year.

For the first time Davidson stud-
ents will enjoy a free cut system. This
year we will all see whether our argu-
ments for mature treatment were
justified or whether they were mere
shams to hide the search for sloth.
And we will also see whether our
professors accept this challenge to
make their classes worth attending.

Also for the first time in its his-
tory, the Davidson student body now
has members from nearly every con-
tinent and race, providing great op-
portunities for stretching our tiny

Think Pig...

In the interest of preserving
tradition THE DAVIDSONIAN feels
impelled to direct a brief statement
to the freshman class.

Tonight you will meet the

igs ... the ones at Queens, that is.

e must caution you to form no per-

sonal opinion as to their physical
characteristics or personalities.

Do not begin to consider the
merits which you think you see in
these young ladies until you have
carefully discussed the matter with
an upperclassman, preferable several
upperclassmen. A ngly prejudiced

ewpoint is very important. Bigotry
is the byword.

It must be explained to you that

The issue of sophomore rush is
dead and properly buried. But we
would suggest that a rush delayed by
at least three weeks should be actively
considered.

We think that the trouble involv-
ed in setting up such a system, with
stricter enforcement of regulations
necessary, will be more than worth it
for all concerned.

The number of parties could be cut
because a “waiting period” would les-
sen the need for the superficial type
of party which takes up the first three
nights. Homecoming weekend could
properly serve as a celebration wel-
coming the new pledges as well as
alumni.

More important, the freshmen
would be allowed to make a real com-
mitment to the academic and extra-
curricular life of the college first. Any
fraternity decision would then be
founded on. instead of in place of
these vital areas of participation.

Both sides could well use the
additional time to sort out the individ-
ual from the image.

Many rush programs have likened
the Big Decision to marriage. Well its
a pretty whirlwind romance, boys—
and the honeymoon may be a letdown.

minds. Perhaps the Davidson students’
traditional ignorance of and apathy
towards overseas events will at last be
shaken.

In addition to the new humanities
course and facilities and the new lan-
guage laboratory, President Martin
announced future plans made possible
by the generous giving of college
alumni and friends.

Yet President Martin also stated
in his talk that Davidson would no
longer tolerate students who do not
demonstrate a desire for the education
which, after all, is available to stud-
ents here. Perhaps the question “Who
belongs in college?” is being more
seriously asked. Perhaps the college is
now refusing to waste its time and
money on students who are not willing
to use the many new facilities and op-
portunities now available.

As President Martin pointed out,
the final choice is left to us students:
do we want a degree or an education?
We stand once more in the proverbial
threshold of a new year, vaguely ap-
preciating what this year could be,
yet’ sadly aware of what it probably
will be.

J.K.A.

these girls have been carefully screen-
ed. Not a single beauty queen, good
dancer or sharp commedienne has
slipped through the ever-watchful
eye of the Queens College board of
admissions. An insipid personality is
a prerequisite.

Always remember: All Davidson
men view Queens ladies with dis-
trust, disdain and distaste.

Tradition set the pace years ago.

As sharp, madras-clad, Weejun-shod
non-thinkers we follow. . . . They are
Pigs.

If you want a sharp date call
ED 2-7121.
BR.

Letters

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes fetters from any reader either in suppert of or
differing trem its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should

mot exceed 250 words.

Wa also will receive longer articles, but request that they be clesred with the

editer.

tn order to he printed In the following Issue, letters should not be received leter
then 6 p. m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 218,

Davidson, N. C.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

Bill Hagen
Ed Willer

News Editor __. Charles Dibble

They Love Me, They Love Me Not .. By Ackerman

The Freshman...
How He Compares

THE CLASS OF '66

-,.. numbers 267 Freshmen, eight less than last year . . . . contains 26% of the 1012

high school seniors who applied and 66% of the 405 who were accepted for admission
.... Originates in 24 states plus Japan; is 13% Alumni-sons.

THE “MEAN” FRESHMAN

... is in the top 20% of his high school graduating class . . .
verbal and 629 on the math part of hisCollege Board.

The “‘average” Freshman won slightly over one athletic letter while in high school.

Thirty-three of the Freshman Class were student body presidents while in high school.
Last year only 22 Freshmen could claim the honor. Forty-one were presidents of their
class, the same number of class presidents found in the Class of ’65.

The class of '66 contains the astounding number of 21 high school paper editors.
Only nine could be found last year. As in the Class of ’65, 13% were editors of high
school yearbooks.

Eighty-one institutions of higher learning ~ccepted one or more members of our

Freshman Class. Carolina chose 59, Duke 2 Forty-two freshmen were rejected by at
least one school. Princeton led the way with 10 rejections, Duke refused seven.

. averaged 585 on the

CLASS OF ‘66
SCORES VERBAL MATH
700-800 24 46
600-699 88 127
500-599 122 81
400-499 28 18
350-399 5 —

MEAN SCORES VERBAL 4 MATH
‘60 499 534
61 497 531
62 532 570
63 539 577
64 562 598
65 569 610
66 585 629

FROM OTHER SCHOOLS

New Mexico, Monmouth -Report
New Paternalism, Reading Plan

trated reading in the stadent’s

Albuquerque, NM—{i.P.)— adults if they are to become re-
major field.

The University of New Mexico, sponsible adults.
in terms of administrative at-
titude, is not very paternalistic,
according to Dean of Students
Sherman E.* Smith. Students
here have been given a large
measure of independence of ac-
tion and expression with gener-
ally good results, he added.

A specified committee will
ascertain from every feculty
member those books which are
worthy of inclusion on the Gen-
eral Reading list, while the Com-
prehensive Reading require-
ments will be prepared by the
individual departments.

“On practical grounds,
grester student self-regulation
means administration becomes
simpler and mere effective et
students assume responsibility
fer their own affairs.”

br. Smith pointed out that
there are problems inherent in
moving away from the psfernal-
istic university. Among these:
“The problem is partly one of
adjustment from the paternal-
istic climate of the home and the
secondary school to the rela-
tively free climate of the univer-
sity. Occasionally, a few students
confuse liberty with license and
respect for their autonomy with
administrative indifference to

The new student will be
enceuraged to begin his read-
ing immedietely upen eccep-
tance as @ student of the col-
lege and te continue the read-
ing threugheut his freshman
and sephemore yeers, giving
perticuler attention to the
reading during vacation per

Commenting en the “in loco
perentis” cencept as stated in
a 1961 reselution by the Ne-
tlonel Student Association,
Dean Smith seid: “it’s not »
new concept. The NSA resolu-
tion is a new and mere com-
prehensive fermuletion of
whet students have been say-
ing for @ tong time. The doc-

trine of paternalism is one their behavior.” leds.

which college and university

administrators seldom edopt — sonmouth, it. — (1.P.)—An Another benefit of the plan
consciously. They more often independent reading program will be that students will be able

will be among the features of © secure “advanced placement”
the new three-term, three-course Credit for any course offered at

“As well, I think, for good curriculum program to be impte. Monmouth where the material
reasons of educational theory, mented at Monmouth College #8 been mastered indeperdent-

find it thrust upon them.

Associate Editor .. J. Knox Abernethy,
Assistant Editor Bill Ruth

Managing Editors _.__. David Stitt
Jeff Wampler

Bill Pridgen

Joe McCutchen
Tom Anderson
Dan Adams

Joe Howell
Walter MacDonald
Advertising Manager — Charlie Smith
Circulation Manager — Malcolm Lane
Assistant Bus. Manager —. Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina,
under Act of March 3, 1679.

Photographers
Cartoonists

Sports Editor
Assignments Editor _... Bob _ Bethel

Feature Editor Greg Govan

and on the score of convenience,
administrators would like
move away from ‘in loco par-
entis’ as rapidly as they can.”

In answer to the question,
Why would administrators like
to move toward greater student
autonomy, Dr. Smith said: “Be-
cause abandonment of the par-
ental position is theoretically
sound on grounds that students
must be treated as responsible

this fall. The probable reading
program will be divided into
two parts:

General Reading will cover
the freshmen and sophomore
years and will envisage a live-
ly acquaintance with an under-
standing of broadly selected
writings in various disciplines.

Comprehensive Reading will
cover the junior and _ senior
years and will provide concen-

ly of regular class enrollment by
passing what amounts to a final
examination on the subject.

The fee for such an examina-
tion to satisfy a divisional re-
quirement or to secure advanced
placement with credit will be
$10, and an additional fee of
$45 per term course will be
charged for recording such
credits on the student's trans-
cript.

Frosh Camper Reflects
With Tongue-In-Cheek

BY BUCK LAWRIMORE
Davidsonian Stett Writer

So you want to be a Davidson gentleman.

You remember the first time you envisioned that
worldly, pensive sophisticate you would become at David-
son College. And here you are ready to leave home, and
Mother is crying and it’s just like the movies.

You climb onto the bus as you shake Dad’s hand.
Good old Dad. Only the tears in your own eyes keep you
from sensing that unusually firm handshake, the big

‘ alligator smile on his face.

After a bouncy ride for many hours, which does
absolutely no good for your already upset stomach, you
arrive at the shaded sanctuary to be your home for four
years. You are abruptly dropped from the bus and alone,
alone as you’ve never been before.

You can’t go home again. It/Il never be the ssme

and you know it.

You are fortunate to take part in Davidson's unique
freshman camp, only the second in the school’s history
and sponsored by the YMCA.

___ No sooner than you toss your cumbersome trunks
into your forbidding dormitory room, a bus roars up,
later than you were to arrive.

Some 67 boys crowd in. Everybody smiles and shakes
hands and tries to be gay, but somehow the dark bus re-
sembles a huge coffin as it whines. through the chill rain
to Camp Stewart, 10 miles east of Charlotte.

After an incredibly long ride to be so short, you
stumble through the pine trees and around the lake
to your cabin. The rain stops and the boys are a little
more cheerful and maybe you'll live after all.

Your first meal away from home, a hearty supper in
the pine-paneled dining hall, does wonders for your
Spirits. You find that the boy across the table is an old
friend, that your roommate is a great fellow after all.

After supper, Danny Carrell, camp director and
president of the student body, welcomes you ahd en-
courages you to make the most of camp as well as college.

“You can‘t go home again,” says the Rev. Russell
T. Montfort, pastor of Davidson Methodist, Church.
His words echo deep down inside. He lets you know
that adjusting to college life won't be easy, that you'll
probably turn over most of your religious beliefs and
found a new one on your own.

His words are quite discouraging but you feel you'll

make it.

All Wednesday speaker after speaker — alumni,
teachers, student leaders and others — fire information
as well as questions at you straight from the hip.

_ That night you ask many questions of the big
senior who is your cabin leader, and he turns out to
be not so idolizable as you had anticipated.

Within your cabin, within your mind and within
your soul, as you defeat doubt after doubt and arm your-
self with a wealth of information, you begin to feel re-
markably peaceful and confident, no longer tremoring
in ignorance at the days ahead.

After a rousing pep rally, singing the fightsong and

alma mater, you begin to feel like one of the

joys — you

even join them in composing the traditional class cheer.

Thursday morning brings clear skies high over the
swaying pine trees and you feel just a little higher than
they are. You have had a good taste of the agony and the

ecstacy of college life by now . . . you

like it.

__.When the bus pulls back in at the college, you
climb out laughing with your new friends, chatting
about everything from the last meal to the whichness

of what.

You see the surprisingly lost faces of other freshmen
who have not had the training and preparation you have
had. You feel great and the same luggage which weighed
you down now seems almost negligible.

__- You whistle as you break into a trot, nodding con-
fidently at les miserables around yon.

Class Of ‘62;
Where They Are

Nearly half of Davidson’s 1962 .

seniors are now in graduate
schools all over the world, ac-
cording to latest records of the
college’s alumni office.

Only two of the 206 grads
have begun life on the other
side of the fence—teaching
school. Meanwhile, Uncle Sam
chimed some 42 for various
branches of the armed services.

Four could not part with their
aima mater. Now employed here
are Don Stowell in drama; John
Goodman in the alumni services;
D. G. Martin, Jr., assistant dean
of students; and Joe B. Martin,
assistant director of admissions.

The lure of the business world
attracted 17 students, while one
man did just the opposite. Wil-
liam S. Gershengoren, Class of
‘31, returned to wrap up his

(T PROBABLY WOULDN T LOOK
HALF AS GOOD UP THERE
AGAINST THAT PALE BLUE SKY,

Bachelor of Science preparation
last August. A former Davidson
student, he returned for his de-
gree and is now a medical tech-
nician in Connecticut.

Seven new alumni were un-
decided on their vocation when
questioned by the college, and a
sizeable 34 have not been heard

rom.

ATTENTION FRESHMEN!

An ergenizationsl meeting
fer oft these interested in
working en THE DAVIDSON.

{AN staff will be held this
Sundey evening at 6:30 in the
Green Reom of the Union. Ne
experience is necessary.

WHY NOT LEAVE [TON THE ~
(END OF NICE LYN HERS he
RED MAKESA NICE Oh

