BASKETBALL OPENS —
‘CATS MEET DUKE

SPRATT DELINEATES
NSA CONSTITUTION

(See Page Two)

VOL. LI

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1962

(

See Page Three)

- NUMBER ELEVEN

’63 Book-Of-The-Year

Welty ‘Short Stories’

ODK Takes New Members

The 1963

her work

YMCA-sponsored
Selected Short Stories of Eudora Welty, a Modern Library
edition. Miss Welty will be on campus April 9 to discuss

Book-of-the-Year is

She will speak to English stories and novels, she has writ-
A / 5 i elasses in. the morning, give an ten articles for the Seuthern
? “~« During a Ing eTremon | assembly program consisting of Review, Atlantic Monthly, Har-
Ss a readings from her short stories, per’s Bazaar. and The New

c and will conclude with a talk Yorker.
BY BILL LOGAN followed by discussion in Cham- Unlike previous books, the

——— :
~~
ae
4
" bed
Me ee ae
hs

Omicron Delta Kappa

Davidsonian Staff Writer

national leadership fraternity, held its fall tappimg dur-

bers

The

auditorium that evening
author's work most fami

new

Book-of-the-Year is focused
n life in the South. The setting

ing assembly on Nov. 19. liar to Davidson students is for the stories is in Mississippi.

‘ Mike Owen, president of ODK,. of Beta Theta Pi social frater and cross country teams, W ” I pig? at et ag a : th rea a, we. believe

o ; ‘ aint 5 ae selectic e freshman text; the. progr: . » rele.

i presided and commissioned the nity Scabbard and Blade, Seaver | enon a 1 s Ys i€ program will be _moré rele

i i tapping of the following: Ben Club, Freshman Court, Student | Basic Readings for a Liberal vant to the students,” comment-

“AN WOT BS RESSNETRUCTED and anew presented Thursday mom Laating “on a * Do ai er 385 Gil . 4 ALEX GIBBS is a member of ,... cil, and Phi Gamma Delt , | Education, Other of her short ed Bill Ferris, chairman of the

| do not give a damn,” sings Alex Bernhardt, are Don Stowell, assistant director of drama-| Ole, fa ? ug ee Scabbard and Blade, the varsity cial ERE OBO stories include ‘Powerhouse’ YMCA committee which select:
Lawrence Kimbroug! Larry social fraternity,

student-ballad singer. Bernhardt was one of
many attractions in the Vagabonds Variety

tics, and Jessie Lynn. (Staff Photo by McCut-
chen).

Carrell:

No Solution Yet

To Tri-Review Problems

The Student Council discussed reviews, the National Student Association, Lake
Norman, and the State Student Legislature among other subjects at its meeting this

Leafer, Neil Nichols, Bud Rob-
inson, Frank Stafford, Bill Wal-
lace, and Dr. Tom Scott.

BEN COLE is a Dana Scholar,
president of the College Union,
and associate editor of Seripts
‘n Pranks. He is a member of
Sigma Upsilon, Alpha Psi
Omega, Eumenean Literary So-
ciety, and the Vagabonds.

foctball team, and Phi Delta

Theta social fraternity.

LAWRENCE KIMBROUGH is
president of Kappa Sigma so-
cial fraternity and is its IFC
representative. He is also a
member of the Student Council
Scabbard and Blade, and the
ROTC flight training course.

LARRY UEAFER is a Dana

and “Death of a Traveling Sales
NEIL NICHOLS is a Dana| man.” In addition to her short
Scholar, president of the YMCA, |

and a member of the Chapel |
Choir. local Cadet Corps
BUD ROBINSON is president | To Pass In Review

of Sigma Chi social fraternity |
Maj. Gen. Ethan A. Chapman,

and holds a James Sprunt Hon- |
orary Scholarship. He is a mem-

siti , orga Commanding General of the XII
US. Army Corps. will review

ber of Phi Beta Kappa, Delta
PI a, e YMCs 1a » =
1i Alpha, the YMCA Cabinet, the Davidson ROTC Corps of

ed the book and author.

Miss Welty lives in Jackson,
Miss. After attending school in
Mississippi, she studied at the
| University of Wisconsin and
| then at Columbia University in
| New York. She claims character
study as her specialty, and
‘writes about human experience
in the South as her basic sub-
ject matter.

§ ; : PAT . Scholar ice- i and E Literary Society. .
week. No immediate relief is in sight for students with three reviews on one day, a id ss oe ae ee ab drill on Tuesday, |
< Scholar and president of the the senior class, D-Club, and | owe y
President Danny Carrell reported. FRANK STAFFORD is a Dana] Dec. 4

Before the administration
made the decision, many pro-
fessors had allowed students in
such a situation to postpone at
least one review; however, the

College Admits 36
On Early Decision

In a DAVIDSONIAN inter.
view, H. E. White, assistant di-
rector of admissions, revealed
that Early Decision acceptances
for the Class of 1967 have been
made.

This year the admissions of-
fice accepted 36 out of 80 who
applied under the Early De-
cision Plati. Of those not ‘accept:

Faculty Executive Committee those of the YMCA and thereby
refused to take any action on offer Davidson students an ex-
the current situation. panded travel program.

Vice President John Spratt Carrell said the administra-
announced that the NSA Re- tion is pleased with the re-
gional Meeting would be held sponse from the Lake Nor-
in Greensboro on Dec. 7-9. man questionnaire. Only 328
Colleges in the Carolinas and replies were received; how-
Virginia will be represented ever, that was a good enough
at the session. Spratt will lead indication to allow college of-
the Davidson delegation. ficials to begin more definite

The council appointed Dudley plans for the area.
Salley to be the NSA travel rep-- The number from Davidson
presentative on campus. He will strending the State Student Leg-
coordinate the NSA plans with jcature in Raleigh has dwindled
{to five. Charlie Dibble,  co-

Administration Sets | chairman of the Davidson dele-

| gation, told the council of the
For n Stud Talks | bill that the delegation is plan-
y |ning to offer to the legislature.

To interest students in study| The bill proposes that the

Male Chorus. He is a member

the IFC. He is a member of the

New Assistant Dean
Former Davidsonian

In a smoothly engineered switch with the U.S. Arm
the administration has traded the services of D. G.
Jr., for those of Augustus (Gus) Burgdorf, in the du
position of Assistant Dean of Students and F

Liason Officer.

Martin left for Fort Benning,
Ga., this. past Sunday to serve
his Army hitch. After training
at the Army Intelligence School,
he will be transferred to Fort
Holobird, Md., to serve the re:

and was tapped into Seabbard
and Blade.

Burgdorf began work yester-
day, having been firmly commit-
ted to take the job only last
Friday following ati interview

'
|
Martin, | soccer team,’ D-Club,
lal | pic Literary Society, and Beta
raternity | Theta Pi social fraternity.

In its annual XII Corps re-
view, the cadet corps will pass
in review for Chapman, who

Scholar, editor of the Wildcat
Handbook, and Alpha Tau
Omega's representative to the
IFC. He is a member of Delta
Phi Alpha, Sigma Pi Sigma, and
the Chapel Choir.

BILL WALLACE, a Procter
|and Gamble Scholar, is a pre-
}med student and a member of
AED. He is a member of the
Honor Court, Student Council,
Philanthro-

son cadet corps staff. He will
troop the line, but will not in-
spect in ranks

Chapman will arrive in Char-
|lotte by plane trom Atlanta,
the XII Army Corps Headquar-

helicopter. His short stay on
campus will include a luncheon
with President D. Grier Martin
and several members of the ad
DR. TOM SCOTT came to Dav-} ministration
idson in 1955 and is now athle-| This visit will be Chapman’s
tic directoreand golf coach. He| third trip to the campus. Last |
received his doctorate from | year he was the inspecting gen-|
Columbia University, He is co-|eral for a similar review. He
author of the Intramural Hand:| also awarded commissions to!
book (1940). Since 1958 he has} the ROTC graduates upon their |

was invited here by the David-|

ters, and will reach Davidson by |

Through Semester

Don Stowell has indicated that
he will remain at Davidson for
the remainder of the semester.
He will continue to help with
Vagabond productions until he
leaves.

“I didn’t think it fair to leave
with all the plans made for the
first semester,” he told THE
DAVIDSONIAN this week.

When asked why he is leav-
ing, he gave his health as the
reason. “I have not been
feeling well—physically. As ‘far
as student participation in dra-
matics is coneerned, that is not
a reason. I think it’s been get-
ting better all along.”

His future plans are uncer

sole

ed — all i — wets abroad is the intent of next| North Carolina governor be | mainder of his two years. here. President D. Grier Mar-|been director of the NCAA| graduation last year |tain. “I really don’t have any
over for consideration under} Monday’s chapel and a panel dis-| given a veto power and that | Eastern Region; aticattn the al i ion | : go: home he to

; PERE ‘ . ‘ gional Basketball} The annual formal inspection|I may go home, or maybe to
the regular plan. Last year 44| oyssion Wednesday night spon-| he be allowed to succeed him- | _ Bursdorf was released by the | Tournament ‘as be held later in. the year.

were accepted out of a larger
number of applicants.

Grades for this year’s appli-
cants were about the same as
last year’s group. There was
also the usual geographical
spread, covering mainly North
Carolina, South Carolina, Vir-

sored by the faculty Foreign} self in office.

Study Committee and the! Carrell announced that he is

YMCA. lstill trying to meet with the
President D. Grier Martin will, faculty committee concerning

comment on the general idea of | the off-campus drinking rule. A

study abroad Monday morning,| pre-holiday meeting was can-
underlining the administration's | celled; however, another meet-

by their school authorities.

|Drs. T. O, Pinkerton, D. W.

| Army a week ago Wednesday at
|Fort Benning. His appointment,

as was Martin’s, is only interim
He will serve until sometime
next summer, at which time he
will leave to to graduate
school, and a new, yet unnamed
man will fill the position.

£0

tin. offered Burgdorf the job

New York. I just don’t know.”

Music Department Plans

Christmas Musical Vespers with and Leroy Anderson's arrange-

Series Of Five Programs

Sunday evening Vespers.

ginia, and ‘Georgia. There was, | Cndorsement of _the — scheduled early next
however, an unusually large |**¢*Y Program. wows : atutents | werk: Burgdorf, who graduated
number of applicants from | *"° icone ghomges their ) Carrell also stated that many from Davidson in 1960, is a BY DON McKINNON
preparatory schools. (junior year will = their Ob- | professors were pleased with) Sigma Chi alumnus. While at Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Early Decision Plan, one ee ae their experiences. | the class attendance just before Davidson he was active in the The Davidson College Music Department is sponsoring several musical pro-
in its third year at Davidson, is} Comerete details on costs,|and after the holiday recess., YMCA, played baseball, was a grams between Thanksgiving and Christmas which began with the premier concert
for applicants with excellent | t@ve! arrangements, and what)/Many faculty members had member of Eumenean Literary of the Queens-Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra, last Tuesday
grades, test scores, recommen- the Foreign Study Committee! feared a mass exodus with the Society, was president of the This series, will continue with bone. Also the ensemble will Finally, on Dec. 9, at 7 pim.,
dations and extracurricular | ©*Pects academically of students | new cut system. Business-Eeconomies Association, an organ recital by Wilmer H. play. Professor Williams’ — ar- the Davidson College Choir will
records who are certain they | Studying abroad will be discuss. feiccire naraamaas ee ee GUS BURGDORF Welsh, a piano recital by David rangement of | Buxtehude’s sing for the Christmas Musical
want to attend Davidson and|° Wednesday evening in the Richey, a concert by the-David- “Fanfare,” selections — from Vespers’ in the College Church.
who are strongly recommended | Morrison Room of the Union. Doc Ready To Shoot son College Wind Ensemble, and “Oklahoma,” historical marches, This will be a part of régular

Applicants must complete ad-
mission requirements by Nov. 1
in order to be considered under
this plan. In addition, they must
agree to enroll at no other col-
lege during the consideration
period and, if accepted, to. en-
roll at Davidson.

White also disclosed that next
year’s freshman class is expect-
ed to number about 260. This

| Tucker, and J. O. Embry, mem-
bers of the faculty committee,
will lead the formal panel dis-
| cussion.

| Also participating will be
, John Miles of John Miles, Ltd.,
a Charlotte travel agency, and
representatives from Cunard
Lines and Trans World Airlines.
After a formal discussion, ques-

tions will be taken from stud-| So stated Dr. James B. Woods,

college physician, on the state

year’s Early Decision accept-jents. A film on study abroad

ances constitute about 15% y will begin the evening program |of readiness of the college in- who feels really liable to come] the day before he was released. cello solo by Roger Drinkall.

the Class of 1967. at 7:15. |firmary in preparing for’ any down with it can take the pre-]He accepted the post Friday. The presentation included
- —_—-. | possible outbreak of influenza. cautionary shot against it. “If a] We felt he could best gain the} selections by Lully, Bach,

S d P bli h P do get it,” he stated. catch a cold or bronchitis or is} Students and the faculty. Dr. Welsh, an assistant professor
ry > W. G. Workman, chairman of » at Winth Solle

oem : : very old or young, then that of music at inthrop College

en Ss u 1S S flag Re — # ie present type of individual should take| the faculty fraternities com-! oF Rock Hill. S. C., will play the

Ree er time there were ‘no indications it.** mittee, favored his appoint- organ in the Davidson College

DOUGLAS
BUDDING POETS. Poems by David Suter and Pat Douglas will

-

“We'll be glad to see that they

of the flu breaking out in whole
|sale attacks anywhere in the
nation.

However, a group of students
at the University of the South
| (Sewanee, Tenn.) were concern-
ed enough to call up the Sur-
geon General of the US. last
month and ask his opinion on
the advisability of taking the
precautionary shot. He warned
them that there always is a
chance of a general outbreak of
flu and that taking the shots
was advisable.

Through their efforts to a-
rouse the student body, they
awoke the administration to
action. By the first of Novem-
ber, free flu shots were offer-
ed to all Sewanee students.

be included in this year’s ANNUAL ANTHOLOGY OF COLLEGE
POETRY. “National Selection,” by Douglas and “Pillars,” by Suter

The concern of some people
now is that the mass movements
of students across the nation

Students Fleeing Flu

BY JIMMY DOWNEY
Davidsonian ‘Assistant News Editor
“Anyone that wants the flu serum can come to the
infirmary any time during sick call and get it.”

wide-spread flu outbreak
Dr. Woods said that anyone

person has any tendency to

“You've got to put on the
one hand the discomfort of
taking the shot and on the
other the protection you can
get from it,” said Dr. Woods.
His reply to a student's fear—

“scared to death to take it’—
would be that the only im-
mediate effect is a sore arm
for a short time.

“But I think in the long run
it’s a good idea to be protected.
However we don’t keep a good
deal on hand—around twenty
doses.”

He stated that there is yet
no cure known for the flu.
“After you've got it, the shots
don’t do any good. The only
thing we can do is put the stud-
ents to bed, and (in case of a
serious outbreak) call in an
extra nursing staff.”

The charge for the precau-

after checking with the ROTC
department to sec which David-
son graduates would be leaving
the Army at the time of his
son’s departure from the post.
“Gus was the first choice of
the men available to take a job
lasting only a few months,”
commented Dean of Students
Richard C. Burts in announcing
the appointment. “Dr. Martin
spoke with him last Tuesday,

mutual confidence of both the

ment,” he concluded

Faculty Committee
Rules On Tardies

The Faculty Executive Com-
mittee has clarified the new ab-
sence regulations by reinstating
the provision from the old reg-
ulations that three tardies shall
constitute an absence.

The action was taken at the
request of an unnamed faculty
member who had requested a
policy decision from the com
mittee. The regulations in effect
prior to the new ruling gave no
penalties for tardies.

In addition to ruling that
three tardies shall constitute an
absence, the committee also

ments of Christmas carols for

pe , a brass choir.
rhe premier concert of the

Queens-Davidson Little Sym-
phony Orchestra took place -in
Hodson Hall. Directing the ‘or-
chestra were Robert Snyder of
Queens and Grier Williams of
Davidson.

the College Choir

Featured in the program
were a violin solo by Derry
Dean Drinkall and a violon-

Haydn, and Bartok.

Church at 4 p.m. Dec. 2. A
graduate of Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity and Peabody Conserva-
tory of Music, Welsh has com-
posed several selections which
he will play at the recital along
with selections by Mozart, Bach,
Handel, and Buxtehude.

Richey, assistant professor of
music at Davidson College, will
be featured in a piano concert
in Hodson Hall at 8:15 p.m., Dec.
3. A graduate of Oberlin Con-
servatory of Music, Richey join-
ed the Davidson faculty in the
fall of 1960. He will play selec-
tions by Beethoven, Gershwin,
Bach, and Chopin.

The Wind Ensemble, direct-
ed by Grier M. Williams, will
present a concert in Hodson ©
Hall at 8:15 p.m., Dec. 7. The
concert will feature 4 trom-
bone solo by George Neely,

No admission is being charged
for any of the presentations.

National Poetry Association of Los Angeles, purports to compile | during the Thanksgiving and tionary flu shot is $1, for the/ruled that any single tardy of| a senior from Charlotte. STRING INSTRUMENTALISTS Roger and Derry Dean
“the finest poetry written by college men and women of America, | Christmas holidays will tend to cost of supplying and adminis-| more than 15 minutes shall con-| Neely will play “Guilmant,” all are caught in the midst of a recital given Tuesday evening.
representing every section of the country.” increase the likelihood of a tering the serum, stitute an absence. a standard repertory for trom- (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

