FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1963

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Side Lights

BY RICK LOWERY

ALOOK AT FOOTBALL...

Well, depending upon who you are, it’s all over to-
morrow—football that is. Davidson goes into tomorrow's
finale with a disappointing 1-5-2 record.

Last Saturday turned out to be a rough one indeed,
as William and Mary rolled up an impressive statistical
scoring edge. This week Davidson will face a surprisingly
strong Wofford team, a team that lost to Furman 21-19

and two of Furman’s scores came on defensive breaks. | %
They scored once after a blocked punt and again after a/&

recovered fumble. Sad to say, it could be another rough |§ ; ,

Saturday.
To many people this year’s team is probably a bigger

disappointment than usual. There was a real feeling of | im

pre-season optimism about football this year. But after
the pre-season scrimmage victory over a team that now
leads its conference in total offense, the whole move-
ment and general attitude about has been downward—
not upward.

Someone asked, “Why does Davidson always reach
its peak around the pre-season scrimmage?” This same
person I think probably provided a2 pretty good answer
when he said that up to this time, the football players
live, eat and sleep football. After this time, classes and
the distractions that come with them set in.

All this leads to the question, “Well so what, it’s
the same everywhere?” But is it really?

All of this rambling leads to the main point I'd like
to make. I think Davidson College ought to make 4
thorough analysis of the football program.

In the United States there are three main brackets
into which almost all college football teams. fall. The
first category is the big-time school. Football at a big-
time school involves between 100 and 250 full scholar-
ships for a four year period. It involves a coaching staff
of from 10 to 15 men and a corporation-like recruiting
system.

The third category involves the small colleges that

have elected to de-emphasize football both in the area of
scholarships and in their schedule. These schools, al-
though they profess to a rare purity in giving no scholar-
ships, still manage to land enough academic scholars who
do play football. For these schools, however, the emphasis
is upon playing colleges with similar programs and ob-
jectives.
} The second category falls somewhere between these
other two. It is made up of colleges aspiring to make the
big-time or colleges that are just a little smaller than the
real powerhouses. These teams usually boast around 75-
100 scholarships, and a schedule often marked with op-
ponents who will run up an astronomical score. ;

Where is Davidson? Unless I am wrong Davidson
does not fit into this neat little system. I guess it would
be somewhere between the second and third category.
But somewhere between the second and third category is
an uncomfortable place to be. Especially uncomfortable
if your program is near the third and your schedule ap-
proaches the second. . .

L believe it is time to think about altering Davidson’s
status. The two alternatives are go for football in a bigger
way or de-emphasize and play comparable schools.

1 also believe it is time to stop dreaming about the
good old days when Davidson could beat Duke and give
Army a good tussle. Those days are the “good old days”
and they are gone. ;

Davidson gives a total of 36 scholarships for four
years. I don’t think this limited aid is enough to consist-
ently compete against William and Mary, VMI, Furman,
The Citadel or VPI and win. ;

I don’t think that a school of Davidson’s size should
emphasize football to the point of giving 90 scholarships.
Personally I favor a program of de-emphasis in which
Davidson attempts to schedule several intersectional
games with schools comparable to Davidson.

I am sure this will meet with disagreement. But I
believe that Davidson should re-evaluate its football
program. And just as a personal opinion I believe it
should de-emphasize. After all, Harvard does.

HELP NEEDED...

For any students interested in aiding the basketball
recruiting program, the basketball staff has a suggestion.
Help is needed in reading newspapers and spotting out-
standing prospects; arrangements will be made for news-
papers to be delivered to the post office box of any in-
terested student. If interested, contact Coach Driesell
or Coach Hunt in the gyny immediately.

TICKETS oee' .

This year two of the games that Davidson's basket-
ball team will play in the Coliseum will cost the student
body money. These two games are Wake Forest and St.
Joseph's. ;

The reason that there will be a charge (one dollar
per student) is that neither of these games Is a home and
home series. Wake Forest and Davidson will split the
proceeds of the game. Instead of buying a game ticket
every other year when Wake Forest is the home team,
the students are charged a student price.

In the St. Joe game, the gate will be split with North
Carolina, the home team for the second game of the

double-header. ;
° Student seats will be on the floor in back of the

Davidson bench and for one dollar that is no bad deal.
Dr. Scott also assured the students that student body
needs (date tickets) would be given preferential treat-

ment. ;
These are the only two regular season's games for

which students will have to pay and you can’t get much
of anything anymore for less than a dollar.

Thanksgiving
Holidays!

Let us freshen your clothes for next
week's holiday trips.

Jackson Cleaners

Across from Gulf Service Station
Main St.

TOMM FNER,
CONFERENCE RUNNER,

ALL

TRAILS TWO
TEAMMATES at the stert of the ‘Cats dual

SOUTHERN

meet with High
second in his lest appearence before the Suuth-
ern Conference Tourney this week.

Point. He went on to finish

Davidson Bows ToW&M
After First Quarter Lead

BY JIM BEASLEY

The Wildcats complete the football season tomorrow with the Terriers of Wof-
ford. The season’s character has already been established, but a final win would go
far to sweeten our cup of despair.

Last Saturday Davidson fin-
ished up the conference sched-
ule with a 345 scalping by the
William and Mary Indians. The
final conference record is the
same (0-4-1) as last year's.

In spite of the score, last
week’s game was not a complete
rout. The Indians earned 18 first
downs to Davidson’s 15. They
gained 31 more yards than the
‘Oats in the air and 99 more on
the ground. The major ‘differ-
ence was the loss of four David-
son passes to Indian intercep-
tions. Each one helped set up a
William and Mary score.

Davidson led'at the end of the
first period. The first ‘Cat drive
moved to the Indian 13 before
it was stalled. Bill Dole, Jr.
kicked his first field goal of the
season to put Davidson ahead
3-0.

Shortly afterward, end
Steve Heckard got off a 59
yard punt which the Indian
receiver fumbled on the goal
line. He was downed in the
end zone to give Davidson a
two-point safety. The first
quarter ended 5-0 and the
Wildcat scoring was over for
the day.

For the remainder of the
game William and Mary used a
balanced offense and alert pass
defense to score twice in the
second quarter, once in the
third, and twice in the final
period for their 34-5 victory.

In an effort to avert another
defeat the ’Cats went to the air
41 times, completing 17 passes.
Billy Mills was the leading re-
ceiver, taking four or 56 yards.
Coach Dole explained the deluge
of passes by commenting, “From
our standpoint it is better to
do everything possible to win
than to play a conservative game
and get beat by two touchdowns,
so we threw a great deal in the
second half.”

Riflemen Sweep
Four-Way Match

The Davidson riflemen clash-
ed in a four-way meet in Spar-
tanburg, S. C., last Friday,
crushing the efforts of Furman,
P.C., and Wofford. Dick Levy
was high man for the match with
282.

Sandy Black, fourth place
over-all, took the second position
for Davidson with 277. Sharp-
shooting Dick Forrester was
next in line with a score of 275.

Totals for the day saw David-
son with 1368 points, five ahead
of Furman. Wofford took third
place with 1340; and P. C. trailed
with 1300. Davidson, Furman,
and P.C. are members of the
five team Western Carolinas
Conference.

Clemson, the only team of the
conference yet to be encounter-
ed, will be at Furman for a
triangular meet scheduled for
this afternoon. Davidson will al-
so meet Clemson one more time
in January before the Confer-
ence Meet. Victory for the ‘Cats
in this meet will be a strong in-
dication of Davidson's hopes for
the Western Conference cham-
pionship.

Capt. Don Campbell, coach of
the marksmen, expressed pleas-
ure with the viotory and the
scores, although all scores were
a little lower than usual. He
noted that the whole squad is
“capable of shooting between

280 and 285” with a little more |-

practice. Campbell also com-
mented on the freshman squad,
which has been firing several
times a week. Any freshman in-
terested in participating on the
team should see Capt. Campbell.

Davidson’s and Wofford’s
scores against common oppon-
ents give some indication of
what is in store tomorrow. The
Terriers beat Presbyterian 21-
7, Davidson tied them 13-13.
We lost to Furman 17-0; Wof-
ford also fell by 20-19.

Last year in Spartanburg Dav-
idson defeated Wofford 15-0 on
scores by Pat Fisher, Joe Jones

and a field goal by Dole. David-
son is ahead in the 27 game
series with 21 wins and a tie.
Guard Russ Walls and quar-|
terback Earl Cole were elected
co-captains Jast week in Wil-
liamsburg. So far Cole leads the
team in total offense with 592

yards and in addition has played

fine defense. Walls has been
outstanding all season.

BY DAVID POWELL

Completing a highly successful season, Davidson’s harriers captured a surprise
fourth place in the Southern Conference Meet held at VMI last Monday. Finishing a-
head of such strong teams as Furman, VPI, the Cats placed several men high in the
field of over sixty. But it was William and Mary which pulled the real upset, outscor-
ing the expected winner, West Virginia, by some seven points in taking the meet.

Tommy Heffner, who has sub-

; sequently been chosen for the

All-Conference team, placed
first for Davidson, finishing as
is his custom in the front run-
ners. This time he took a com-
mendable ninth place. He was
followed soon afterwards by
John Barrow and Denny Phil-
lips, who finished fourteenth
and seventeenth respectively.
Ronnie Reese came in twenty-
sixth, while sophomore Andy
Little crossed the line in thirty-

IMAC STANDINGS

Kapps Sig
Phi Gam
Phi Delt
KA

Beta
Sigma Chi

ATO
SAE
PIKA

Sig Ep
Sigma Nu
Pi Kapp
ind

A Very Last Last Look;
A Winning Soccer Team

BY BOB STRAUSER

Coach Harry Fogleman has shared an office with Coach Charlie Parker on the

second floor of the gym for

ball squad went through their paces

the past three years. Wednesday afternoon, €
below, Fogleman leaned back in his straightback

as the basket-

chair behind his desk and talked about his autumn love—soccer.

A few things were obvious.
Finishing with a 9-1 record,
Fogleman had his best soccer
season since he came to David-
son. In 1961 he had a 5-4-1
record; Jast year the final talley
was 6-2. Offensive production
was tops in the nine year his-
tory of soccer on the campus.
There were 49 goals netted in
the 10 game 1963 season; in
1958 Richardson Scholar Peit
Bergsma and his teammates
scored 36 goals on their way to
a 6-5 season.

Bergsma, not Fred Schoen as
it was earlier reported. holds the
school scoring record of 37
goals. That figure represented
almost half of the team’s total
offense. Schoen’s 13 goals. in a
more evenly balanced offense,
account for just under one-
fourth of his team's offensive
output. Schoen easily holds the
career record with 28 goals.

Soccer first appeared at Dav-
idson in 1939 and lasted unti!
the war. At that time, Fogleman
was assistant soccer coach at
Duke. “You can say we beat the
living daylights out of Charlie
Parker's Davidson squad while
I was at Duke.” Coach Parker,
sitting across the room, noted

that Davidson played on the out-
field of the baseball park in
those days. In contrast to those
playing conditions, Coach Fogle-
man is negotiating for two or
three night games in Richard-
son Stadium next year.

On this year’s squad, Fogle-
man noted the play of the half-
backs. “Our halfback play was-
n’t matched by anyone we saw
this year. Mike Nemir was one
of the best defensive men I ever
saw.” Of other members of. the
squad, he said, “Jan Brakel did-
n't miss a penalty shot all year.
Lyman Dillon allowed only 10

goals; three of those were penal- | F

ty kicks and one was kicked in
by Mike Nemir. Gus Brown was

the big man in the backfield— |Z

definitely All American mater-
ial." Fogleman praised his two
Richardson Scholars, Simon
Henson (three goals), and Alan
Arthurs, “the best wing I saw
all year.”

Assistant coach Paul Marrotte
has been associated with soccer

at Davidson ‘since the revival of ‘3

the sport in 1956. He echoed
Coach Fogleman’s comments
and added, ‘We had the best
team play this year we've ever

IN THE COLLEGE
BRAND ROUND-UP

PRIZES:

1ST PRIZE Beautiful 19" Portable Television by Admiral
2ND PRIZE Portable Stereophonic Record Player by Admiral

WHO WINS:

Prizes will be awarded to any recognized Group or Individual
submitting the largest number of empty packages of Marl-
boro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine or Paxton.

RULES:

1. Contest open to qualified students only.

2. Empty packages of Mariboro, Parliament, Philip Morris,
Alpin or Pexton must be submitted in order to qualify.

3. Closing date, time and location will be announced in your

newspaper.

4. No entries will be accepted after official closing time.

aa

Get on the BRANDWAGON ...r’s lots of fen!

— ss

had.” He went on to note that
we have now beaten Duke threc
out of the past five years.

The praise will fade and tne
records will be forgotten. But
no one can forget the year that
soccer almost became “big
time” at Davidson. At any rate,
it’s all over now and Fogleman,
Marrotte, and the NCAA can
settle back and wait ‘till next
year.

fourth place.

Coach Heath Whittle was elat-
ed with the results and had no-
thing but praise for the team’s
unexpected high finish. “The
boys were up for this meet,”
he smiled. “I was very proud of
them.” Heffner’s selection to the
eight man Conference team, al-
though not entirely unexpected,
was another happy note for
Whittle.

With a creditable 53 season
behind them, the team is already

looking forward to next year.
Three stalwarts of this year’s
squad, Reese, Barrow, and Heff-
ner, have been elected tri-cap-
tains for the 1964 season. Hav-
ing such returnees and witn
such rising sophomores as Rob-
ert Dean and Bob Sjogren, the
outlook is good for an even bet-
ter season than this year’s. And
with the conference meet being
held on home territory, the ‘Cats
will be aiming on an improve-
ment on that fourth place finish.

Freshmen End Year
With Loss To Furman

BY FORREST ROLES

Last Friday, Davidson’s freshman football team
played its last game of the year at Furman. The Wildkit-
tens lost 28-7 to finish the season with a 1-3 record. Last
year's team failed to win a game.

“They simply overpowered
us,” said assistant coach Capt.
Don Campbell when asked to
describe the game. “They had a
big, hard-hitting fullback whom
we just couldn’t stop up the
middle. And they had an end
who was 65" who caught two
touchdown passes because our
safety man couldn't get high
enough to get to the ball.”

The two touchdowns Furman
scored on passes were enough
to win. Their other two were
somewhat tainted. One was
scored on the last play of the
game after the clock had ceased
operating with one minute to go;

the other touchdown came on
a fumble on fourth down and
goal on the three.

Davidson scored on the same
play which had already netted
them two touchdowns this sea-
son. On a roll out pass, halfback
Tom Dews ran a shallow pattern
and caught an eight yard pass
from ‘Jake Jacobson for the
score.

When asked to comment on
the squad, Capt. Campbell said
he “was not the least disappoint-
ed in those boys, despite our
record. There are a good many
en this squad who will certain-
ly help the varsity next year.”

The

THOSE CLEAN WHITE ADLERS

Now Bus Station and
Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

Hub

Now you're catching on. Just be “clean white sock” in Adlers. Suddenly everyone sees
you as the man who always knows the right thing to do, even if he decides not to do it.
So now’s the time to grab a motor scooter and a girl, not necessarily in that order. But
first, grab the AdlerSCshrink controlled wool sock. In white and acoveyof colors. $1.00

CUE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINMATH 14, CLIO © 10 CAMADAL WINDSOR HOBICAY CMSA, MONTREAD
