FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1963

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Side Lights

BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

FOOTBALL ....

Last Saturday Danny Donovan, Furman, and old man
weather gave Davidson its first defeat of the season. To
many observers this first game was a dismal preview to
a dismal season. On the other hand, a great many obser-
vers will go along with an old adage—one game does not
a season make.

__ The weather was the same for both teams in Green-
ville Saturday and yet Furman turned fumbles and a pass
interception into short scoring threats to tally their 17
points. Weather was dismal but was Davidson really that
dismal?

_ All night long Furman failed to mount any real sus-
tained offense against the ’Cats. The interior line con-

THREE AND SOON TO BE FOUR Furman
tacklers down Davidson's Benny Coxton as

Coach Dole’s pre-season op-
timism was only slightly dimmed
by the disappointing loss. Ex-
;cept for the costly errors the
| Wildeats turned in a creditable
performance. A summary of the
|Furman scoring shows how
| quarterback Danny Donovan
; converted Davidson mistakes in-
| to Paladin points.

Russ Walls trails play in Saturday's ection.| Late in the first quarter Fur-
(Staff Photo by McCutchen)

;man halfback Sam Pickens in-
tercepted a Benny Coxton pass

tained the rushing game, and Furman’s famed halfback
sweep never really materialized. What Davidson was un-
able to stop were the rollouts of quarterback Donovan
and his remarkable passing.

If the Davidson defense was up to snuff what about}
the offense? Once again I believe the interior line showed |
it was able to open holes throughout the game. What the
offense lacked was any successful variety. The option
plays and the pass plays seemed to bog down in the chill
drizzle and failed to produce any push until the last min-
utes of the game.

The real factors that separated Davidson and Furman
were fumbles and an accosional lapse in the pass de-
fense. These mistakes didn’t necessarily lead directly to}
scores, but they were responsible for Davidson's inability | Se@soned squad with sufficient
to keep posssession of the football. depth in both backfield and line

A great many words have been written about field, According to Fogleman ‘these
position. In a game so influenced by poor weather, field| twenty-five men should make a
position becomes even more important. As an example, “good, workable squad.” He
in the opening minutes of the Furman game, Davidson| further commented that without
missed a field goal opportunity. Even though they had/| the very able assistance of Dr.
failed to score, Davidson had Furman — deep in| Paul Marrotte, former head soc-
their own territory where a punt would probably give| cet coach, it would be “almost a
Davidson another scoring opportunity or a mistake would | panegcond pol trying to man-
be fatal. | age such a large group.

Instead, it was Davidson who made the mistake. A; Fogleman stated, “Our worst
moment’s confusion in the defensive backfield led to aj problem is conditioning. As yet,
pass play which covered about 55 yards. Furman in turn| "° one on the team could go a
missed their field goal attempt but now it was Davidson| full game, although several of
who had their back to the wall. the boys did begin working out

Fumbles, mistakes and interceptions similarly cost) during rush week.” The squad
Davidson field position throughout the game, and in the| has a week and a half left before
final analysis this is what really beat Davidson. Furman) booting it out with Belmont Ab-
made mistakes but they made them when they could well _ the — victim of an 8-1
afford them. | stomping last year.

Davidson was unable to afford such mistakes most of; Returning from the Wildcat
the evening. In fact it is difficult to say just how good the | team (6-2) of a year ago and
Davidson offense is—they didn’t have the ball often or)
long enough Saturday night.

In all fairness to Furman they won the game Satur- |
day night, 17-0; the score board said so. But if you thought |
that was a dismal team Davidson put on the field in their)
debut, you missed something. For in all fairness to David- |
son, their record stands 1 win and 1 loss and their pre-
season game scrimmage was anything but dismal.

NEW YEAR....

Tuesday night this year’s intramural athletics com-
mittee met for the first time. The meeting resulted in the}
announcement that flickerball will begin Monday, Sept. |
23, and that golf will begin immediately. All further in-|
formation on these two sports is available to the fraterni-
ties through their representatives. ei

To most Davidson students, intramurals are their,
only personal connection with competitive athletics while |
they are in college. For this reason, it is one area of
activity in which almost all students participate.

In past years this program has been noted for the
competition and effort put forth by a real host of David-
son students. Perhaps few people remember or even
care who won the trophy or who won an individual,
championship. But I'd bet in some houses there are boys
who remember the first time their fraternity won a)
basketball game.

Or I'll bet the rman. og a a
basketball championships in the last five years. Or | bet) Se aah dies aaa eel
there are men who remember, if only they remember, ™embe Hos sees . pea
setting a new swimming or track record. Or there is even) to vin a sieatiiainass-dinaph inal
the memory of a team that lost to a future champion Oe) ts bs on comedians ‘tales
in doing so aroused the championship team to cry and | dint entinel taiaien-aventt|

beg and beat their heads to win. ‘ : :
. Intramurals have been successful at Davidson. | ** possible. The team will con

They've been a lot of fun and thé subject of a lot of talk. —" from eight to ten mem
The IMAC seems prepared to do its job. If the program cy tee ees at a
continues to lose interest as it did last year, it wi be the vente sala, Sie weaialh:
doing of the students because they are the program. ,

and Bill Backlund (5), graduated
FRESHMEN this spring, leaving Davidson!
If you're a freshman you've already been told that |

Coach Fogleman reports a

linemen Fred Shoen, Jan
Brakel, Mike Nemir, and Walt
Eckman. Because of senior
losses Nemir has been switch-
ed from line to backfield, a-
long with lettermen Glenn
| Hanes and Tarby Bryant.

Fall Tourney Kicks
Off Tennis Season

BY BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Assistant
Sports Editor

Coach riarry Fogleman)|
announced this week his!
| tentative plans for the 1964
' tennis season. In effect, the
season gets underway Mon-!
day afternoon at 2 p.m. with
the first rounds of a double
elimination tournament de-|
signed to select the squad.|

The participants in the tour-|
nament will consist of last year’s |
freshman team and returning!

showing a lot of promise are |

Robert Dean Wins
Pick Of The Cakes

Fogleman And Marrotte
Greet 25 For First Practice

BY ERIC NICHOLS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The soccer team, under the tutelage of Coach Harry Fogleman, opened _ their
season Monday with twenty-five players reporting for practice.

Senior goalie Lyman Dillon
has been working out with
Hamie MeCutchen, who before
receiving an injury was describ-
ed by Fogleman as “‘one of the
finest goalies Davidson has ever
had.”

Some of this season's other
hopefuls are Allan Arthurs,
Richardson Scholar from Eng-
land, who incidentally may be
filling the shoes of last year's
English Richardson Scholar and
standout Allen Jones.

Other fine performances are
being turned out by seniors
Sam Glasgow and Bruce Swain
and by junior Bill Rule. Rep-
resenting the sophomores are
wings Ben Nzengu and Lewis
Foss, back Gus Brown and Lee
Fanning. Coach Fogleman is
looking to these four sopho-
mores for added power in a

j at the Furman 49 and raced to
| the ‘Cat 20 before he was knock-
| ed out of bounds. Several plays
later Donovan rolled out from
lthe 5 and then cut inside to
cross the goal line. Cordell add
ed the extra point with 1:35
gone in the second quarter.

In the same period Davidson
mounted a drive to the Furman

{

35. A fumble returned the ball
to Furman. After twelve plays
they reached the Davidson 14
tough ten-game schedule. |where Powers ‘kicked a field

Although making no strong!
commitment about his team
Fogleman says, “If we get the| Neither team could muster a|
first one under our belts with! sustained drive in the third
the sophomores in there, we'll! quarter.
be in good shape.’ He points out | In the final period Furman.
that the Davidson soccer eleven, recovered another Davidson |
is set up for scoring with last)
year’s leading scorer, inside
forward Fred Shoen, along with
hustling junior Jan Brake!

As a possible starting lineup |
Foglemah suggested wings Foss
and Nzengu, inside men Brake!
and Arthurs, and center Shoen. |
Possible backfield men might be
halfbacks Gary uane and Nemir,| converted to give the Paladins |
center fullbaek Tarby Bryant,’ @ 17-0 lead.
and fullback Hanes and Brown! Davidson’s final drive was!
with Dillon as goalie, This team) halted at the Furman 22 by
depends, of course, on the per-| third fumble. !
formance of the individual play-| Despite the expensive mis-|
ers during the coming 10 days. i

goal. With only 3:50 left in the
half Furman led 10-0.

drove to the Wildcat 25 where
Powers set up to attempt an-

er Donovan suddenly stood up
and passed to Pickens at the
10. A couple of plays tater

a}

| takes, the team shows promise |
jin several respects. The line, |
{particularly guards Russ Walls
j and Morris Williams, did a fine |
| job containing the Paladin |
| ground attack. Highly-rated Kel-
‘ler and halfback John Cook, the
;two leading ground gainers in
the conference last season were |

fumble at their own 41. They ||

other field goal. Instead, hold- ||

fullback Keller rounded right ||
end to score. Cordell again

BY JIM BEASLEY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

held to 38 and 8 yards respec-
tively.

Davidson's old punting prob-
lem may finally be solved. Jim
Fuller kicked 4 times for a
respectable 36-yard average. A
fifth punt of 75 yards was called
back because the ‘Cats were off-
side.

Veteran quarterback Earl
Cole completed 8 of 16 passes.
His fine showing will return
him to the starting position
tonight. Billy Mills had a fine
game at end, making several
spectacular catches.

Leading ground gainer for
both teams was fullback Pat
Fisher with 46 yards in eleven
carries

The major defensive weak-

nesses proved to be pass defense
and end play. Furman was al
lowed 119 yards through the air.
The Paladins completed six of
seventeen attempts for a 20 yard
average. Furman’s major ground
yardage was due to their ability

It's Wildcats And Indians
In Legion Stadium Tonight

Last week at Greenville mistakes—three fumbles and an intercepted pass—
cost the ’Cats a football game. Practice this week was aimed at insuring that they will
not be repeated tonight against Catawba.

to outflank the defensive ends.
occur this season.

Catawba brings a veteran
team to Memorial Stadium in
Charlotte tonight. The indians
lost only five lettermen last
year and return with twenty.
Most formidable among these
veterans is the passing team
of quarterback Bill McDevitt
and end Bucky Pope.

Last season McDevitt passed
for over 1100 yards to lead the
Carolinas Conference. Big 6'4”
Pope caught 41 passes for 649
yards last year: The Davidson
pass defense faces a strong test.

The Wildcats plan to counter
with a balanced attack. Fuller,
Hindsley, and Fisher are capable
runners. Against Furman, end
Steve Heckard caught only one
pass for nine yards. It is expect-
ed he will see more action to-
night. He and Cole teamed for
two touchdown plays in last
year’s 21-0 victory over the In-
dians

Visit The New

PIZZA -

CAVE

1308 E. Independence Blvd.

1318 W. Morehead

* Jn Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

Charlotte, N. C.

With the running of the freshman cake race last

appropriate ceremony.

As usual, the participants be-
gan arriving about thirty min-
utes early to discuss the length
of the course, rides waiting
“over on the road,” or the mer-
its of a few female observors.

Finally, the group assembled
at the head of the soccer field,
instructions were given, and

| soecer practice was halted. Then,

someone realized that starting
time was five minutes away and
the group broke up again. As
somewhat of an anti-climax, the
gun sounded and they were off.

Those who braved the ninety
degree temperatures
minor difficulties awaiting them,
such as obstructions on the
wooden bridge and a locked
gate. This accounts in part for
Bob Dean's rather high winning
time of 9:32 over the 1.6 mile
course. Pete Ashcraft, holder of
the Davidson 880 and mile ree-
ords, holds the course record of
8:34.55.

found #

/Monday, Davidson disposed of another tradition with all

Sixty-two cakes were awarded,
but charitable upper-classmen

were on hand to take over that
department
freshmen.

with a fine nucleus for the com- |

the whole intramural show is Mickey Mouse or that it’s ing year. When pressed to point|
just for has-been jocks and that nobody really gives-a-

damn about the thing; don’t make up your mind without

giving this program a chance. Go out yourself, see who

lays and play yourself and then decide intramurals are

ickey Mouse. You may do so and then again you may |

not.

Remember—t is still suave to participate in athletics. /

TONIGHT ....

Last week I went out on a limb and Danny Donovan
cut it off. Picking a football game in the blind is really
pretty silly anyhow. I haven’t seen Furman nor Catawba
and trying to guess from written reports is ridiculously |

less or perhaps just guessing. A
“a pole Pg interior line of Dick Fulp,
Russell Walls, Britt Smith, Morris Williams and Bill Dole
beat Furman last week. I think the offense should be a
powerful rushing game in the charges of Pat Fisher and

r.
~~ The uestion arises caa Davidson eliminate the fum-|

bles, supply some Mpa be their offense, stop the passes
up their en ?
- Celene, they meet 2 bs a will —
for its first victo avidson in many years. Al-
oa ST ee expressed in their camp that
this is the year. Returning this year is the leading passer
of the Carolinas’ Conference,
Catawba will be smaller
throw the ball all around the park. Davidson must stop

this gesting to win.
week that Davidson is a good team. A team
— me Davidson aie last week and

toward his top prospects, Coach

Fogleman declined, ehoosing

rather to ‘wait and see.”
Work-outs will continue as

long as weather permits. As |
usual the captain will be elect- |
ed this fall, and for the first |
time doubles combinations |

will be chosen during fall
practice.

The season starts next March
with a match with Cumberland
here at Davidson. Once again the

| Squad will travel to Rollins for

a round-robin tournament. Co-
lumbia has been secured for this
meeting, and negotiations are
underway for a fourth entry.
On this year’s highly touted

to be good to tep the group |
had last year.” The coach at-
tracted four members himself
(no tennis scholarships are of-
fered) and says he has word

While last year’s record left
a little to be desired, the quality
of tennis that was played on the
Davidson courts has seldom
been equalled in the past. It
promises to be even better this
year.

Late announcement: Any-

;

}
i

|

|

WHY
WE

a Gant.

our customers.

There’s more than fabric superiority in Gant. In addi-
tion, “‘needied-into the ways and woof of every Gant
shirt’? — there's flair-fit-show — three vital inher-
ents that make ali the difference when a man wears

We chose Gant because they take shirt making seri-
ously. They're hard to please (like we are) when it
comes to fit of collar, its roll, its profile—how much
it shows above the suit collar. They're fastidious
about the way the body of the shirt drapes and folds.
All must integrate to achieve that viable ingredient
which gives comfort and aplomb. in substance, Gant
shirts are keyed to the discerning tastes of well
groomed men who appreciate quality. These men are

Rush Wilson, Lid.

for the exhausted} °

{

|

$1.00.

Available At

THE SOCK THAT STAYS UP AS LATE AS YOU DO

ADLER introduces the good-tempered cotton sock. Nothing ever gets it down.
With stripes at the top and reinforced with nyton, it's a white sock that
sticks to you the way your little brother used to. Pictured, the Alpine with
the new Shape-Up leg.

THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNATE 14, OHIO

Bush Wilson, Ltd.
