FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1963

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Side Lights

IT’S IN THE HANDBOOK ...

This week for the first time the effects 0 ]

will be felt. This rule, which is now in pty po with
academic probation. The rule states that any student not
receiving grades which represent twelve semester hours
and nine quality points at any grading report will be plac-
ed upon academic gg Once a student is placed
upon academic probation, he cannot be removed from
this position until the end of the semester. Neither can he
represent the college in any official capacity away from
campus. g

All of this is old news but it will soon become mean-
ingful news, for the first grading period for freshmen
ended yesterday.

The place of extra curricular activities in a liberal

oa

HOWARD MORRIS, ED RUDE, BEN
NZENGU, ALLAN ARTHURS, GUS BROWN,
and TARBY BRYANT run through a full scrim-

jee)

mage as they prep for the Duke game which
they won Tuesday 3-2. (Staff Photo by Chatter-

number two.

man. “The teams can’t get any
tougher than Duke.” Davidson
now sports a 40 record and has
an excellent chance for an un-
defeated season and 4 trip to
the NCAA playoffs

Only 16 players got off the
bench. These sixteen played the
best or one of the best soccer
games in Wildcat history. One of
the leaders of the attack was
halfback Jan Brakel. Brakel
scored on a penalty kick in the
third period and throughout. the
game was up-field feeding the
ball to the line and down-field
backing up the defense.

es ots?

arts college is a question that can be argued almost end-
lessly. In avoiding this, I will just say that I am personally |

of the opinion that extracurricular activities, including|
the wide variety of pursuits such as intramurals, student | Cam Oo 9 ase ays

government, varsity athletics, dramatics and many others, |
are a vital part of the college program ranking just be-
hind academics.

If such is the case then what about the penalties im-
posed by the academic probation rule? Why is it that this
rule levels its main sanctions at those men participating
in extracurricular activities?

These questions simply raise the issue: why, of two
students who are placed on academic probation, is the
student who is offering some contribution to the college |
penalized by prohibiting him from participation away |
from the campus? I can see the logic in requiring any |
such student to attend all classes and not to allow him|
to miss classes for.any extracurricular event. But why is}
he legislated against representing the college. '

All of the above has a very difect bearing upon|
athletics, especially freshman athletics. And yet what!
does the rule hope to accomplish? The present rule
prevents a student on academic probation from dressing |
for away games but it does not prohibit his attendance |
at these games. In other words the student is prevented |
only from being a participant in the contest or for that
matter in any extracurricular event.

In my own experience I have real doubts about the!
fairness of any rule that bases its penalties upon the
results of one review. This is the situation that now con-|
fronts many of the freshmen. (How many of the students
now at Davidson had a poor average in the first six weeks
of work?) The problems of rush and adjustment have had
their effect on more than a few freshman. And for these!
problems freshmen are to be excluded from off-campus
extra-curricular participation for the full semester.

I said earlier that the effects of this new rule will
soon be felt and soon they will, for in the near future the |
freshman football team (whose entire schedule is played
off-campus) will in all probability lose several players. |
These boys will be told it is all right to drink beer, date, |
or practice but it is in their interest that they not leave}
campus to represent and offer some contribution to the}

school. How cum?

|

|

AND....

If the above seems to have little place on the sports|
page, then perhaps it can be explained by the fact that
I have always disliked the sanctions of the academic pro-
bation rule. 1 make no claim to throw out this rule or to|
know all of the reasoning involved in its creation but 1)
believe it needs careful review.

And if the above sounds like a plea for special ath-
letic privileges then I have not clearly presented what I)
feel. But make no mistake. It is a plea and even a protest |
— a rule which I believe unjustly penalizes a student
who represents Davidson and in a small way contributes
to this college’s total image.

AN ANSWER...

From the headlines of the past few weeks, it is ob-
vious that the cross country team is having a reasonably
successful season. Since cross country is not a particularly
rewarding spectator sport, most people are probably un-
aware of the peculiar scoring system used to determine
team position.

From five to seven men on each team count in the
scoring, each man receiving as many points as his place
in the race. The judges total the number of points of the
first five men on each team and the lowest score wins.
For example, against The Citadel last Saturday the ’Cats
took the first tive places for a perfect score of 15—the

lowest score possible.

The sixth and seventh men can count in the scoring
only if they finish ahead of the opponents’ fifth man;
their position in the race adds points to the opponents’
score. Thus the “pushers” can often be the difference be-

tween victory and defeat in a close race.

The need for teamwork can be seen in Furman’s loss
to West Virginia last fall in the Conference meet. Al-
though Furman had the first three places, and their
fourth man was in the top ten, they lost to W. Va. because
their fifth man added around twenty-five points to the |
score, allowing a tightly-bunched Mountaineer squad to)
take the meet.

Cross country has been defined to be “a team sport
in which verbal and visual encouragement plays a stra-
tegic part in overcoming physical and mental fatigue.”

In short this is a participant sport.

pups’ football team.

Both Maj. R. W. Pierce and
Capt. Don Campbell, the Fresh-
man coaches, stressed the de-
sire and hard play of the entire
team and were hesitant to single

| out any players as outstanding.

“I know it sounds corny,” smiled
Captain Campbell, “but this was
just a case of overall team effort
winning a ball game. With our
two platoon system, all of the
twenty-five players had a part

| in this win.”

In a classical football menner
the game was close and hard-
fought. Citadel scored early af-
ter Davidson was forced to punt.

Defeat Citadel Bullpups

With a solid team effort and a Jake Jacobsen-to-Tom Dews pass in the waning
‘moments of the game, Davidson's Wildkittens managed
21-14, last Thursday night. The game, played at Union, 5.
the local Kiwanis club, was the first Davidson victory in

Wildkittens took over and in a
series of downs managed to
score, the Jacobsén-to-Dews-with-
Randolph-converting combina-
tion clicking again. Barely
thirteen seconds remained in the
game, but that sufficed to send
a seare through the Davidson
bench. A Citadel end, open in
the end zone batted a long pass
around on his fingertips for a
moment before dropping it and
his glory. The hectic last seconds
of the game found Davidson still
on top, 21-14

Major Pierce started to praise
the play of quarterbacks Tommy

Halfback Mike Nemir
every place at once,” in
words of Fogleman. It
Nemir and Fred Schoen
bottled up Duke's top
Center Schoen already has eight
goals, one short of his school
record of nine set last year

“was
the
was
who
scorer

Tarby Bryant and Lyman Dil
lon both played highly commen
dable defensive games. It was
Bryant's best game of the year
Dillon played all but ten min
utes of the game.

to down The Citadel Frosh,
C. under the sponsorship of
several years over the Bull-

Leslie and Jake Jacobsen, half-
backs Tom Dews and Jim| Sophomore Gus Brown at full-
Phipps, and end Jim Richardson,| back made few mistakes, as
but he gave up in frustration,; usual, and had another consist-
onee again pointing out the gen-| ent sure-footed game. Other
eral team effort. He was dis-' sophomores in the fray were
satisfied, however, with the} Louis Foss and Ben Nzengu.
tackling and thought the } ‘ a

B and thought the game) wait Bekman scored his fifth
could have been a rout if David-! ‘

P goal of the season with some
son had done a_ better job. | s :
“They'd get hit—and still make | perfectly timed footwork during

rT | the first period. It was a Brakel

ten yards or so.” ‘
The freshman team next faces | to gp 1 ee a ca “8
Gardner-Webb on Nov. 2, and at | ™® Hes pores prays

|

Davidson Dumps Duke
To Remain Undefeated

BY JIM BULLA

It was the 'Cats all the way Tuesday. Duke fans called it an upset; Davidson fans
(mostly Davidson alumnae in graduate school) just laughed and said that Duke is

“It was definitely a team vic- of the game were the excellent Arthurs set up fellow Richard-
tory,” said Coach Harry Fogle- crosses from the outside. Passes

son Scholar Simon Henson in the
second period.

On Monday Davidson plays
N.C. State here at 3 p.m. The
‘Cats are favored by two goals,
but “Benito” and the "Pack won’t
be pushovers.

were accurate as the ball was
continually booted into the
mouth of the cage.

A limey-to-limey combination
accounted for the other David-
son goal. Englishman Allan

Healthy ‘Cats Seek
Victory In Richmond

BY JIM BEASLEY
Well-rested after a two week layoff, the Wildcats
left at noon today for the University of Richmond and

tomorrow's football game with the Spiders.
The ‘Cats are in much better improved. Most weaknesses dis-

physical condition than they played in previous games have
were two weeks ago when they hopefully been corrected. Davy-
tied VMI 10-10. No key person- idson'’s defense faces a strong

nel will miss the trip. Except test tomorrow as Richmond runs
for lingering bruises, the squad a wide variety of offenses; in-
1 is in good shapt cluding an I formatior

The Spiders’ 1-3 reeord is The system of alternating
deceptive. Two of the losses teams used so effectively against
were to Southeastern Confer- VMI will be continued against
ence teams: Tennessee, 7-35, the Spiders. Under this system
and Florida, 35-28. Their last two teams of equal strength

play five minutes and rest five
minutes. Besides keeping the
squad in better condition during
the games, Coach Dole adds,
“This system has produced ex-
cellent competition among the
players with resulting higher
performance from all.”

Hopes are high as the favored
Wildcats seeks their first win
of the season. Coach Dole com-
mented with guarded optimism,
“The least I can promise is a

game was a loss to Mississippi
Southern, 7-0. All of these games
were played away from Rich-
mond, In their only home game
so far, they defeated East Caro-
lina, 10-7.

Last year here at Davidson,
the Spiders won 28-20. Richmond
returns 22 lettermen from that
team. In the 19 games _ series
with Richmond, Davidson ‘has
won 7.and tied once.

Coach Bill Dole reports all

aspects of the ‘Cats’ game are good football game.”

|
| sticiniensinssenimnbaisimmmeiattiniy sis aivicenlines

present the outlook for a victory |
good, according to Major}
Pierce.

is

The Wildkittens came right beck
with Jimmy Poole’s 45 yard run;
on an option play. William Ran-|
doiph’s conversion made it 7-6.)

For most of the rest of the)
half, the pigskin traded hands, |
with neither team being able to
penetrate the other's twenty
yard line, But immediately be-|
fore the half Jacobsen passed to
Dews for a touch down, and with.
Randolph again converting Dav-!
idson took a 146 halftime lead
into the dressing room. \

In the third quarter Citadel;
scored again, and the pass for
conversion knotted the score.;
Until 1:56 remained in the game}
the two teams battled it out but)
were unable to score. Then the

Unkind ‘Cats Mash
The Citadel Badly

Hardly playing the role of the
gracious guests, Davidson's
cross-country team trounced
The Citadel in a two-way meet
last Saturday, 15-41. Davidson’s
harriers captured the first five
places in swamping an outclass-;
ed Citadel contingent. Coach]
Heath Whittle was again pleased |
with an “unusually good” effort]
as his,proteges took their second]
consecutive victory against a
narrow opening loss to Wake
Forest.

Ronnie Reese captured first
place in an exceptionally tight
finish, running the course in
22:14. Within two seconds of the
winning time, John Barrow and
Tommy Heffner both crossed the
line. Fourth place was taken by
Andy Little, who made his first
appearance in a varsity meet
and Denny Phillips completed
the sweep by finishing half a
minute later. Harry Blakeslee,

took tenth.

This afternoon Davidson plays
host to a strong Furman team
and Coach Whittle looked on
that encounter with little op-
timism. “Potentially,” he said,
“They're a lot stronger than us,
but we're out to beat them
nevertheless.” Furman returns
about three men from last year’s
team, which placed second in
the conference, and some good
sophomores should add depth.
Following teday’s meet, next
Tuesday the team will journey
to Richmond to meet Richmond
and Old Dominion, both strong

competition.

once again placing for Davidson,

IT’S THAT TIME OF YEAR AGAIN as the freshman basket-
ball team began workouts Tuesday. Here BARRY ST. CLAIR puts
up a left handed effort as DENNY KNIGHT performs under the
eye of headcoach Driesel!. (Steff Photo by Chatterjee)

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETI

a OR ERG cr ea ce at
For details mail coupon to... *

Blue Cross

Biue Shield 4
HOSPITAL CARE |
ASSOCIATION |
DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA |
peeae a
. 1
° '
tT
:

- “ne nae ee

se eee ew eee Par eeee

Please send me information on the Blue Cross-
Biue Shield STUDENT CERTIFICATE.

Name

HOSPITAL CARE ASSOCIATION

City

=

|
|
|

flip...

» a

knows it’s there! It's
from Colgate-Paimoiive. Non-greasy CODE 10 disappears in your hair,
gives it the clean, manly look that inflames women, infuriates in-
ferior men! Be in. Let new CODE 10 groom your hair all day, invisibiy.

only

your hair knows
its there!

It's invisible, man! You can’t see.it. She can’t feel it. Only your hair

CODE 10 for men, the new invisibie hairdressing

ety ae

‘ig flop —_
flop...lug:.:tug
push..ju

‘

leap...
pull

“run _-putf puff.

better

