Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Academic Probation

One more swipe at the Academic
Probation rule before the executive
committee’s recommendations go be-
fore the entire faculty.

More for formality than anything,
we ask one more time that Academic
Probation either be made a true pro-
bationary period with lower require-
ments than the present 12 hours and
9 quality points, or that the entire
rule be junked.

The latter option is actually our
preference, because already existing
promotional requirements cover ade-
quately the problem of accumulating
hours and quality points. These _re-
quirements make the Academic Pro-
bation rule little more than a harass-
ing gesture at the already greatly
persecuted “underachiever.”

The new rule put into effect this
year frankly strikes us as being void
of background thought. Dr. J. G. Mar-
tin has built a convincing case against
Academic Probation in general, and
particularly against the new version
of the rule. His findings have been
partially reproduced elsewhere in the
newspaper.

As we said last week, the fresh-
man six-week grade report should

The Straw

definitely be made unofficial. Six-
week grades reflect nothing more than
how quickly the freshman has adjust-
ed to college, and slow adjustment is
hardly sufficient reason to deny a
freshman cuts and off-campus extra-
curricular participation for the rest
of the semester.

Which brings up an important
second point. If a student can go on
Academic Probation at any grading
period, he should certainly be allowed
to go off on any report upon regaining
the required number of hours and
quality points.

The several other valid objections
to the Academic Probation rule, par-
ticularly as it now stands, have been
discussed for the past three weeks in
this column, in Rick Lowery’s column,
and now in Tom Loflin’s story cover-
ing J. G. Martin’s proposals.

We trust these objections will be
given fair hearing by the faculty next
week, and we hope that group will see
fit not only to pass whatever the exe-
cutive committee has already propos-
ed, but to take any other possible ac-
tion to loosen or abolish the unneces-
sary Academic Probation rule. DTS

; By Wright

On Traditional Beanielessness

“Beanies, name tags, and no walk-
ing on the grass will become a thing
of memory as freshmen regulations
end at midnight tonight.” Thus reads
the lead paragraph. of the story on
page four of this week’s DAVIDSON-
JAN.

_ And, indeed, beanies, name tags,
and no walking on the grass have be-
come a memory. But, then, have they
not been a memory for some weeks
now? Who was ever interested in the
enforcement of the freshman regula-
tions? A handful of upper-classmen,
perhaps. Not the. Freshman Court.
And certainly not the sophisticated
Class of 1967.

Indeed, the so-called “tyrant” Jim
Bootle, 61, was the last man to lead
a general enforcement of the regula-
tions on this campus. And his Court
of Control was accused of damaging
the psychological fiber of those un-
fortunate freshmen who were public-
ly reprimanded and disciplined for
violation of the regulations.

Sophomore class president Dave
Hardeman states that the purpose of
the freshmen regulations is three-fold:
to develop class unity and spirit, to
make the freshmen realize that they
have as yet made no significant con-
tribution to Davidson and to continue
the tradition.

These objectives have certainly
been realized: First, the Class of 1967
has violated the regulation in a uni-
fied and spirited manner. There was
nothing officious about their disregard
for the rules; in fact, it was rather
heart-warming to see so many beanie-

less freshmen walking on the grass. If
any had been wearing name tags, we
would have certainly congratulated
them individually on their dedicated
united front of violation. Secondly,
the freshmen have indeed been made
aware of the fact that they have as yet
made. no significant contribution to

Davidson. In fact, they couldn’t even.

contribute so much as a quasi-alleg-
iance to Davidson’s lone tradition.
And, thirdly, the tradition has been
continued; that is, the tradition of
paying something less than lip-serv-
ice to this first lesson in the making
of a “whole” man.

It is evident that the increased
intellectual sophistication of the Dav-
idson student body has ushered in a
don’t-give-a-damn attitude as regards
the freshman regulations. This out-
look is especially obvious on the
Freshman Court. It must be realized
that traditions, as such, have no in-
trinsic value; only the fact that many
people do give a damn about their
continuance can be considered as
proper justification for their exist-
ence.

Such does not seem to be the case
at Davidson.

Hence, we would call for the com:

plete and permanent abolition of the

reshmen regulations and the Fresh-
man Court. The former will never be
obeyed or enforced, it appears, and
the ordering of a meager twenty
freshmen to shovel dung out of the
wildcat cage can hardly be called
reasonable justification for the exist-
ence of the latter.

Asterisk

ARTIST-ACTIVIST GUY OWEN:
ONCE TAUGHT AT DAVIDSON,
NOW N.C. STATE’S CULTURE OASIS

BY RICK VON UNWERTH

A double handful of Davidson students and profes-
sors got a treat Monday night. Sigma Upsilon was address-
by Guy Owen, — novelist, anthologist, editor, and a
poet in spite of his PhD.

He talked about verse and image and read some
of his stuff. Before a backdrop of authority
comprised of a published novel, a sheaf of success-
ful poems, and several years of teaching experience
his frank apologies were peculiarly refreshing.

It was an evening of understatement. “I don’t have
much to offer ... a few cliches if you'll let me get by
with that. How long does this Chautauqua hold forth? I'll
just read a couple of little things here... .”

Yes, peculiarly refreshing, this modest, energetic
artist-activist who slipped in quietly on the heels of last
week’s culture huckster.

Short, plump, crew-cut and glasses—on the
whole a pretty unawesome figure. He looked like
an assistant grocer, maybe, or a small-town Metho-
dist deacon. !t was probably with the same modesty
he exuded Monday night that he submitted “Season
of Fear” to Random House. It was accepted immed-
iately and subsequently published—a rare fate for
a first novel.

Among other things, Mr. Owen publishes a poetry
quarterly called Impetus. “We do it for fun .. . try not to
lose too much money.”’ The magazine is for new Southern
poets, among them one-time Davidson salutatorian Dab-
ney Stuart and one-time Davidson professor Guy Owen.
Mr. Owen, it seems, was ours for two years a while back.

He is actively writing now and is teaching at N. C.
State in Raleigh. He is also the mentor of the North Caro-
lina Poetry Circuit, which came under his leadership
after the University of North Carolina began to fade in
the area of creativity due to lack of interest. Mr. Owen,
however, is interested in active expression, and he is
also interested in Davidson. The two seem strangely in-
compatible right now.

Monday night he loosened his tie, conjectured about
poetry, discussed modern trends, and held at least part of
the audience in his subtle thrall. Refusing to take himself
seriously, he continued to apologize with his voice and a
nervous jerk of his arm as he breezed through the fruits
of his inspiration. He read “grim” poems about death
and destruction. light poems about people and ideas, and
poems in which he “took a risk.”

“1’m not even sure these are poems,” he said.
“They’re pushing prose. | thought I'd try it, though
.... well, see what you think.” He explained his
stylistic digressions in the same apologetic tone that
characterized all of his delivery, with a suggestion
that—what the hell—maybe there’s something here
and why not listen, once anyway. At some of his best
serious images, he would raise his eyebrows with a
little “well, you caught me there” chuckle. He was
honestly, modestly alive.

His consuming interest is southern literature and
poetry, and he knows his field because he lives in it. He
talked about the impact of industry on the south, the
impact of the Nashville Fugitives on poetry, the impact
of Frost and Pound and Tate and nature and the South
on him. He wants to help us bring poets like Donald
Justice, Jonathan Williams (lots of slides and obscene
poems), and Charles Edward Eaton to Davidson.

I submit that Guy Owen can, with his wide-eyed
subtlety, make a tremendous impact on us. ,

Letters To The Editor

EDITORIALS CONTINUED

On NSA: Pro...

Well, it was good for laughs. The
silver-tongued student body president
argued passionately. His grim-faced
opponent countered gamely. Two
dissenters left quietly. And most ob-
servers admitted dolefully that the
great debate endedinatie. __

The issue was NSA; specifically,
whether it is to Davidson’s advantage
to belong to such a controversial or-
ganization. Both John Spratt and Pat
Freeny brought out ‘points which we
feel deserve comment.

Freeny’s main argument (initial-
ly) against membership in NSA _ was
that the organization purports to be
non-political, and yet spends the ma-
jority of its time and effort discussing
and lobbying for or against issues of a
strictly political nature, issues which
have little or no significance to David-
son students.

Further, he questioned whether
this college should belong to an or-
ganization which at times advocates
positions on political issues which are
not supported by most Davidson stud-

ents.

The first point is worthy of little
consideration. The NSA is many
things, and it makes no difference if
not all its activity is devoted to re-
moving Davidson from the depths of
provincialism. The annual fee for af-
filiation is 30 dollars. Divided by a
thousand, this amounts to the price of
a couple of cigarettes per student per
year. Certainly the benefits, even if
they are indirect, general benefits,
are worth the small cost. ,

The second point merits no con-
sideration. The NSA constitution was
changed last year to the effect that
any resolutions passed by the Nation-
al Student Conference of NSA do not
necessarily have the endorsement or
support of member schools. So in spite
of our affiliation with it, NSA does
not necessarily speak for Davidson.

.. and Con

The Davidson College Student
Council needs to be affiliated with a
national association of student gov-
ernments. Such an association could
provide a good training program for
newly-elected officers, and an annual
conference would afford an excellent
opportunity to trade ideas with stud-
ents from other schools, and to pick
up wonderful bits of information like
how to run off voting cards.

In approximately two weeks we
intend to wish the Student Council
luck in finding such an association
with which to affiliate.

As Pat Freeny noted at length in
chapel Monday, the National Student
Association spends far too much time
engaged in internal power squabbles

and Help Roll NSA.

During the course of the debate,
however, Freeny changed the line of
his argument and made one point
whith deserves Student Council con-
sideration, namely that NSA has not
received enough inddepth publicity
on campus. In spite of Spratt’s pro.
tests, we feel that the activities, organ-
ization, and benefits. of NSA have not
been publicized to a great enough ex-
tent. To be sure, one or two assem-
blies a year are devoted to NSA. And
occasionally a sign is posted in the
Union or an article appears in THE
DAVIDSONIAN concerning some NSA
activity. But the majority of students
are still not aware of what the organi-
zation is all about.

Perhaps the ideal solution would
be a short series of programs in the
form of discussions or debates involv-
ing both students and professors de-
voted to exploring the philosophy and
activities of NSA. Students are appar-
ently more receptive this year to this
sort of approach than they have been
in past years. At any rate, information
about NSA should be readily available
to any student desiring to find out
more about it. Indeed, if the present
movement to petition for a referen-.
dum vote on NSA membership jells,
the student council will be obligated
to present relevant material for stud-
ent consideration. °

We fully agree with John Spratt
that membership in NSA is worthwhile
and valuable, and that over the years
it can make a significant contribution
to Davidson. But we also point out
that now, as in the past, accessibility
to relevant literature about NSA is
limited.

We encourage the student coun-
cil to make such information avail-
able and we encourage the student
body to read and discuss it. Who
knows? We might even have another
debate.

JIRW

and fumbling around with politics to
teach anybody anything about student
government. And, as council members
themselves have pointed out, so far
the only outstanding ideological ex-
change at a convention. resulted in
those nice little punch cards.

We have seen no benefits of the
NSA on campus. The NSA ruling elite,
whoever they may be, take stands on
political issues which most students
here are not the least bit sympathetic
toward. The Student Council delegates
themselves get little training at the
NSA convention.

We do not need this organization.
Go to the polls on Referendum Day

DTS

Driesell

Dear Editor:

The reasons for closed basket-
ball practices are simple and
very justified, I believe. We
have practice sessions of
two hours per day and these two

= hours are a “learning” period.

They are planned to the second
and are carried on in a busines:.-
like manner (1 hope). We have
many things to “master” from
fundamentals to zone presses,
out-of-bounds plays, zone and
man-for-man defense, combina-
tion defense. and offenses to list
a few.

The coaching staff must try
to teach these in the best possi-
ble atmosphere. If the gym is
left open to any one passing by,
a small crowd usually appears
and there is talking and visiting
among the spectators that is dis-
tracting to the coaches and boys.

' must have the undivided
attention of every boy for two
hours a day in order to pre-
pare our team to meet the
tough schedule it faces. it is
hard to do. this with disturb-
anees and talking in the gym-
nasium.

The situation is similar to
teaching a class in chemistry. I
am sure Dr. J. G. Martin would
have trouble getting his students
to concentrate on chemistry if
he had from 25 to 50 visitors in
the back of his classroom talking
and distracting his students and
himself.

I find it impossible to do a
good teaching job under these
circumstances. I would like to
point out that I did the same
thing with my first basketball
team — a junior varsity high
school team nine years ago, and
have had closed practices every
year since.

There are other reasons
which meke it necessary to
have closed practice sessions
at times, which | will not go
into at this time.

I would like to point out that.

we have had only two closed
practice sessions this year and
had open practice freshman pat-
ents day and last Friday when
we had a full game scrimmage.

I am delighted to have specte-
tors whenever we scrimmage

and this will be quite often from
now on. However, 1 don’t think
it wise to have any distractions
when we are trying to build a
winning defense and offense.

I will be happy to have any
student interested in learning
more about basketball sit in on
our sessions if he will check
with me first.

I want to thank the Davidson
student body (which I consider
to be the best in the country)
for their great interest in bas-
ketball, and I hope this tradition
of interest will grow more and
more, The basketball coaching
staff is working many hours per
day to produce a winning basket-
ball program. We try very hard
to co-operate with the student
body in every way possible as
our basketball program is only
as strong as our supporters
make it.

I can assure you we will have
open practice and scrimmages
whenever possible, but we have
a tremendous job ahead of us
and as the old saying goes,
“There is no easy way to get a
hard job done.”

Thank you for your SUP-
PORT, INTEREST, AND PA-
TIENCE.

Coach Charles G. Driesell

Snow

Dear Editor:

Letters to the editor are pri-
marily for intelligent criticism
or enthusiastic commendation or
support. Very frequently they
reveal problems which are con-
sequently corrected. But why
waste 10 column inches to say
you're mad at Coach Driesell for
not letting you watch basketball
practice?

Surely Coach Driesell has rea-
sons of his own for the closed
practice. Ask any basketball
player if he objects to the closed
sessions. Lefty wouldn’t do us
wrong.

If the letter in last week's
DAVIDSONIAN was needed to
fill space, then it accomplished
its purpose. But rather than fill
space with childish criticism,
why not fill it with something
more exemplary of journalistic
and literary talent.

Ron Snow

Vagabond’s ‘Earnest’ Heralds
Bright Future For Dramatics

BY PETE MYERS

_“The Importance of Being Earnest,” presented by the Davidson Drama Depart-
ment, heralds a promising year for the theater at Davidson.

The play is a delightful farce
set in the England of the turn
of the century. It concerns two
friends, John Worthing and Al-
gernon Montcrieff, and their
romance with two very proper
young ladies, Gwendolyn Fair-
fax and Cecily Cardew, respec-
tively. But the romance is com-
plicated by Gwendolyn’s Aunt
Augusta Bracknell and her views
of the proper marriage.

All of the characters were
very good, and presented a
polished production to the smal!
audience. Lane, played by Jon
Miller, and Merriman, played ‘by
Ed Dwelle, were two quite con-
vincing butlers, scorning the
aristocracy in their own small
way.

Miss Prism, Cecily’s governess,
was played in a very interesting,
if not unusual, manner by Mrs.
Connie Welsh. And her “beau,”
the Rev. Dr. Chasuble, played by
sophomore Decker Faw, was pre-
sented as a delightfully contrast-
ing character role.

The leads, John (Robert Pow-
ell) and Algy (Smith McKeithen)

were somewhat convincing, al-
though not as much as their fe-
male supporters. Smith, as Algy,
seemed a little unsure of himself
throughout most of the play, and
the feeling was there even after
he warmed up in the middle of
the play.

John, by Robert, was very
good considering that this play
was his debut on the stage. With
a little more experience, he
would probably present a won-
derfully delightful John. In fact
occasionally he came quite close
to that point.

Gwendolyn and Cecily were
delightfully charming. Cecily
was completely the young sweet,
romantic girl. And Gwendolyn
was a beautiful presentation of
the more sophisticated British
young woman in town society, a
little harsh perhaps, but con-
vincing.

And in the middle of the first
act entered the high point of the
evening, Lady Augusta Brack-
nell, played by Mrs. Ellen Wink-
ler. In the midst of an above
average performance, especially

at Davidson, Mrs. Winkler pre-

_sented a completely polished

performance. In past perform-
ances, Mrs. Winkler has shown
that she has much ability, but
in “Earnest” she has outshone
herself in a quality perform-
ance!

On the whole the play was an
exciting production. The cos-
tumes by Miss Cumming and
Mmes. J. Martin, Minter, Tuck-
er, McCall, and designed by Mrs.
Barber were the best costumes
since “Androcles and the Lion.”

The sets were very colorful
and quite elaborate for the un-
wieldy Davidson stage. Mr. Bar-
ber did an excellent job in their
design, and his student help
were good carpenters, even
though they were a bit late in
finishing the sets, namely during
the first performance.

“The Importance of Being
Earnest" is definitely a play
that should be seen by all. It is
a great humorous approach to
the most staid period of our cul-
ture, and Mr. Barber has done a
good job of presentation.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF David Stitt
BUSINESS MANAGER ___. Rick Finch
Associate Editors Tim Kimrey News Editor Jim Downey
Bill Ruth pporeranhy Editor _. Joe aan
otographers _.. _.__... Sam Smith

Jeff Wamp!
eff Wampler Romir Chatterjee
Managing Editors ___ Charles Dibble Cartoonists — Dan Adams
Charles Ramberg Foknny Wright
Rufus Hallmark

Assistant Editor _.. Rick von Unwerth

Assignments Editor
Feature Editor

Assistant Sporta Editor Bob Strauser
Sports Editor _.__..__. Rick Lowery

John Todd
Tom Loflin

Paul van den Berg

Assistant Bus. Manager Charlie Smith
Advertising Manager ~ Irvine Welling

Circulation Manager — Malcolm Lane

Contributors This Week: Rufus Adair; Bill Norfleet, John Bailey, Bill Hufford,
George Fain, Charles Edwards, Dick Hicks, Eric Nichols, Jim Beasley, Don
McKinnon, Paul Simpson and Pete Myers.

Entered os Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina,

under Act of March 3, 1879.

ee ee eee errr eee reer reer erence ee ee eS aS,
