FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1963

Side Lights

BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

“WERE YOU THERE... ?” |

In 1934 Davidson College played its first intercolleg-
iate soccer game. Their opponent was Duke. Playing on
this same Duke squad was Ha / Fogleman. Monday Har-
ry Fogleman coached and another ‘géneration played as
Davidson’s 1963 soccer team picked up this year's first
fall victory.

Attending this season’s opener was a crowd estimat-
ed at about 700 including a healthy contingent of Belmont
Abbey fans (not only male but female). Briefly during the
halftime break the crowd stole the action from the field as
both the Davidson and Abbey freshmen participated in a
semi-peaceful exchange of beanies.

__ The whole exchange featured a lot of running, yell-
ing and even a few kicks and blows. But it fell woefully
short of the action provided by the game.

; Using a two platoon system, Davidson kept the ball
in Belmont territory for a great part of the afternoon.
Although the opening minutes were a little ragged, the
remainder of the game saw Davidson organize and con-
trol their offensive play to an extent seldom seen in
soccer games in this area.

Perhaps the most impressive feature of Monday’s
debut was the overall strength of the team from front line
to goalie, and not only was this strength evident in the
starting outfit but also in the replacements. In fact, to a
rookie like myself, it was difficuit to distinguish between
starters and substitutes.

A PAUSE...

Soccer is a game played by eleven players. Although
I’ve watched it for five years there are still some instances
which make it confusing.

___ The team is divided into a line, made up of two wings
(right and left), two inside forwards (right and left) and
a center forward. This is the front edge of the offensive
attack. The next division is that of the halfbacks who trail
the line. The third division is the fullback position, made
up of a left, right and center fullback. Completing the
lineup of course is the goalie.

Perhaps a word might be said about a few of the
penalty calls which commonly take place. The first thing
to notice is that there are no time outs except for injury.

Perhaps the most confusing of the offensive calls is
that of offsides. Briefly, this is a judgment call on the
part of the official. He makes the call in a situation in
which the deepest defensive player (excluding goalie) is
between the offensive man (with the ball) and the goal.
In such a situation, the offensive team is allowed one man
between the defensive man and the goal but this man is
not to be a part of the play, ie the offensive man with the
ball cannot pass to him; if he does the ball is given to
the defense.

Another judgment call is that of hitting a ball with
hands or arms. Davidson's first goal Monday came when
Fred Schoen deflected a ball off of his arm into the net.
In soccer a man is not allgwed. to strike the ball intention-
ally with his arms. Any instance in which a man’s arms
are extended from his body and strike the ball is ruled
intentional but if the arms are inside the sides of the body
(either in front or in back), the referee must use his dis-
cretion in ruling whether contact was made intentionally
or not. In Monday’s game, Schoen in the judgment of the
official had not intentionally used his arms to deflect the

all.

Another technicality which produced a lot of yeHing
Monday was the ruling on a bail fielded by the goalie. The
goalie is allowed a free kick or pass anytime that he has
the ball in his possession, but he must have the ball in his
possession. At least twice in the Abbey game, Belmont
goalie fielded a kick only to bobble the ball. In such an

nce, the ball is free and the goalie is fair game. And
fair game he was, for both times Davidson’s Fred Schoen
went for the ball (once turning it into a goal) and the
goalie. Such a play often raises the shouts from the crowd
but it works both ways and is probably one of the clearest
indications of alert, aggressive play by the offensive team.

Perhaps the above statements have been so elemen-
tary as to be useless but without an understanding of
these situations, soccer can appear almost mystic. Today
Davidson goes after its second win against Guilford Col-
lege. And next Wednesday the University of North Caro-
lina is at Davidson in a game which should provide a text
to determine just how good Davidson's soccer team is.

EXCELLENCE

- In 1961 Davidson resumed soccer on the intercol-
legiate level, after a break of 11 years for World War 1.
In that first season the total goals scored by the Davidson
team was four. Monday Fred Schoen topped this total by
one. Pm sure there must be a slang word for a “hat trick”
plus two but it escapes me.

Monday was just Captain Schoen's day.

So far this year the sport’s page has failed to pick a
Wildcat of the week, if there was one this week Fred
Schoen would unquestionably be that man.

To score five goals in a single game is an almost un-
heard of accomplishment. To be sure, Schoen was not
solely responsible for these goals. Time after time David-
son’s wings Allan Arthurs and Ben Nzengu crossed the
ball in front of the Abbey goal giving Davidson the best
wing play it has had in years.

One of Schoen’s goals was set up by a perfect in-
bounds kick by fullback Glenn Haines. There were other
factors and men who figured in the scoring, but no credit
should be detracted from Schoen. Not only did he convert
his various chances but his aggressive, alert play made
defense a headache for the Abbey all afternoon. In fact
Schoen played Monday as if he expected Davidson to
score each time they had the ball.

Fred Schoen had a lot of help Monday but he played
to score. Not only personally but as a part of a team. So
if he had a lot of help, he certainly gave a lot of help.
Any performer of this'kind demands respect.

WHICH SEASON?

|

ination tournament. The survivors of this tournament

‘Delts found new hope and po-
This week the tennis team completed their fall elim-| tency in Phil Squier, Little Al

Be
THAT'S CAPTAIN FRED

SCHOEN IN

THE MIDDLE getting the five finger sign from

the soccer team. (Staff Photo by Sam Smith)

.

Rain & Rain & More Rain
& Too Much Citadel-Oooh

BY JIM BEASLEY
Tamorrow Davidson will still
be looking for its first win of
the season as they take on a
VMI team which is rated strong-
est in the conference. To have a
chance at success, the Wildcats
will have to prevent the repeti-
tion of errors which have cost
them heavily in all three games
this year, most recently against

The Citadel last Saturday.
However, Davidson errors are
not the only explanation for the
most recent loss. The ‘Cats limit-

ed depth was simply not enough
to contain the three teams used
by The Citadel, As Coach Bill
Dole explained sadly, “The Cita-
del football program gives 22
full scholarships a year as com-
pared to our nine.”

The Cadet margin was 7-0 at
halftime on a touchdown by Wes
Matthews in the first quarter—
a scoring play set up by a David-
son fumble at their own 31. The
only serious drive, by the Wild-
cats was halted at the Citadel
four after a first and goal at

Cross Country Team
Extends Wake Forest

BY DAVID POWELL

“T hate to alibi,” murmured Coach
he watched his harriers narrowly lose
, “but if we

Forest team last Wednesday

in there, we’d have won.” Little, who has been in conten-
tion for the top spot on the team, developed water on the| attacked by driving 71 yards for
knee last week, but his teammates still succeeded in pur-} this final score.

suing Wake Forest until the finish. A scant five points
separated winner from loser, 26-31.

Ronnie Reese, who held the
halfway lead, was the first man
to cross the line for Davidson,
trailing Taylor of Wake Forest
by fess than a hundred yards.
Tommy Heffner, kicking in
across the edge of the soccer
field, narrowly missed overtak-
ing the third-place man Albie
Rushing of Wake Forest.

Then, to add a little comic re-
lief and casual atmosphere,
“Goose” Barrow glided across
the line in ninth place, a scant
yard or two in front of a de-
termined black-and-gold pursuer.

Coach Whittle was highly
pleased with Davidson's _per-

Frosh Footballers Tackle
L&M In Saturday's Opener:

BY BOB STRAUSER
Tomorrow a not-so-tame group of Davidson 'Kittens}
journeys to Lees McRae for the opening game of the):

Freshman football season.

Coaching the freshmen will be
Major Pierce and Captain Camp-
bell of the Davidson ROTC de-
partment. These two titans of
the tin soldiers will be assemb-
ling all the artillery they can
muster for the clash. Lees Me-
Rae will be placing an offensive
unit on the field that has al-
ready played three games; in
addition they will be playing be-
fore a homecoming crowd.

The Davidson offense, essen-
tially the same offense used by
the varsity, will probably show
the lack of game experience.
Offensive smoothness can only
be gained by playing, and this
is the area where the ‘Kittens

KA’s And Kappa Sigs
Lead Flickerball Loop,

This week the “impotent” Phi

+

will go into fall practice as the Davidson tennis team. As| ®"4 Dirty Dave Stitt. The Inde-
ef now the eight berths on the tennis team belong to] pendents and the SAE’s have

Woody ‘Cleveland, Dick Hurd, Bill Council, David Mes-
chan, Prank Baumgardner, John Ariail, Jeff Frank, and
Bill Schutt.

Tennis season is a long way
good tennis, next spring should be interesting.

A QUERY... .
Why did the socees team, after. 7-0 Monday,
voluntarily run wind sprints at the end of the game?

. et

agreed to replay their disputed

game. While the Beta defense
off. If work can produce] eaitered, the ATO

's have come to

Nfe. Leading the pack are the
KA's and the Kappa Sigs; first
place will be up for grabs Mon-
Answer: They're either crazy or they want to win.| day when these two meet.

the seven with minutes left in
the half.

The Cadets needed no David-
son assistance on their second
touchdown. In: ten plays they
moved 61 yards with halfback
Converse Chollis taking a pitch-
out at the five to go over for the
score with 9:33 left in the third
quarter.

An interception of a Benny
Coxton pass in the same period
by cénter Frank Murphy at the
Davidson 16 paved the way for
the Cadet's third score. Halfback
Nick Dilorets went over from
the three to give The Citadel a
21-0 edge.

Sophomore quarterback Sid
Tompkins prevented Davidson
from being shu! out as he scored
the first touchdown of his var-
sitv career. In the fourth quarter

Heath Whittle as he picked off a Citadel pass and
to a fine Wake returned it untouched for 61

had Andy Little | ¥2"4s-

The Cadets quickly counter.

Apparently unhampered by

formance, especially against a| the steady rain, the Cadets gain-
“subsidized” team l:ke Wake.| ed a total of 243 yards while al-
Forest. “The boys,” he said, “‘are| lowing the ‘Cats a meager 66.
in a lot better shape than wel Despite the weather's help the
thought." Times were particu-| ‘Cat pass defense yielded 65
larly good for this early in the | yards on six of The Citadel's 11
season, partially because of the; attempts.

good running conditions.

The freshman meet, though a VMI was also unsuccessful last

Iowa State

more lopsided 10-31 loss, still af-
forded bright spots for Whittle.
Times, he pointed out, were es-
pecially fast for this early in
the seaton. Robert Dean, winner
of the freshman cake race, lop-

week. A powerful
team outscored them 21-46 al-
though the Keydets earned more
yardage and first downs. In the
only other game this season
VM: defeated George Washing-
ton 146.

ed in with a 10:45 time over the
two-mile course, scarcely thir-| With almost the same team
teen seconds behind the winner.} back which won the conference
: championship last year, the Key-
dets are a solid pick to repeat
this season.

come out on the short end.

The tentative starting lineup
will have Gary Waldron at cen-
ter, Joe Peel and Joe Gaddy at
guards, John Fagg and Carl
Corter at tackles, Gary Rikard
and Mike Gibbons at ends. In|
the backfield Jake Jacobsen will!
be at quarterback, Tom Dews
at right half, Jim Phipps at left
half, and John Walker at full-
back.

Campbell summed up the of-
fense with “We will try to move
the ball on the ground = and
throw occasionally to keep the
defense honest.” The next game
will be at the Citadel next
Thursday.

New England

FLICKERBALL
STANDINGS

KA 40
Kappa Sig 30
ATO 3-1
Phi Delt 3-1
Sigme Chi 2-1
Sig Ep 2-2
Beta 2-2
Phi Gam 2-2
SAE 1.2 alone at
ind 4-2
Pi, Keppa 0-3
Sigma Nu

Pika

Fashioned by Bates skilled

/ PAGE THREE

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Schoen Gets Five Goals

A spirited Davidson soccer
team opened the season Tuesday
by smashing Belmont Abbey
7-0 behind the heavy booting of
co-captain Fred Schoen.

Perfect set plays, a hustling
offense, and the ° sensational
scoring of Schoen, who contri-
buted five goals, gave the Bel-
mont squad the appearance of a
cross country team wearing com-
bat boots over a hopeless 10-
mile course. The ‘Cats literally
ran one step ahead of Belmont
Abbey after the first quarter.

Coach Harry Fogleman attri-
buted the first victory to a team
hungry for a win and possess
ing the “best scoring punch
we've ever had.” The defense
ran “a little ragged, especially
during the first quarter,” but
the hustle and spirit of the team
more than atoned for any mis-
takes.

The only remark of Coach
Paul Marrotte was that “they
were playing soccer like they're
supposed to. They brought the
ball down the side and crossed.
lr

invisible,
Man!

over.”

After an uncertain early first
quarter, Davidson began to con-
trol the ball. Terrific ball-hand-
ling by halfback Jan Brakel be-
gan to show as Davidson con-

‘tinually threatened the Belmont

goalie. Schoen tallied for goal
number one late in the first
period.

The deciding period was the
second quarter as the ‘Cat of-
fense began a steady assault.
Davidson made eighteen at-
tempts at the goal and Schoen
knocked in number two. Goalie
Lyman Dillon ended three Ab-
bey drives with some rugged
ball-snatching in front of the
cage.

A head shot into the top cor-
ner of the cage by Brakel made
the score 3-0 with 2:50 gone in
the third quarter. Thirty-five
seconds later Schoen bombed
the Belmont goalie with an-
other head shot. This goal tied
his opening game performances
of the past two years. He now
holds 11 tallies in three conse-
cutive games with Belmont Ab-
bey.

it’s

The aggressive play of half-
back Sam Glasgow and casual
ball-handling of Simon Henson
contributed much to the control
of a lagging Belmont squad.

According to Fogleman each
of his players put out in pre-
game practices and the pay-off
came in a 7-point slaughter. “We
had fine morale and played with
great spirit.” An indication of
the attitude is the fact that af-
ter the game the team voluntari- |
ly ran some sprints. “They rea-
lize that they need to be in bet-
ter condition.”

Davidson soccer ended its
debut with another scoring flur-
ry. Halfback Lewis Foss filled
in with some precision outside
play. It took him one minute of
the last quarter to line a shot
to the indefatigable Schoen for
a fast goal. Schoen contributed
goal number six shortly there-
after.

Closing out Davidson's scor-
ing exertions was senior Walt
Eckman who let loose with some
quick head work. He was ably
assisted by Foss.

It’s incredible, incomparable, infallible! Code 10 for men, the new
kind of hairdressing from Colgate-Palmolive. The new invisible way
to groom a man’s hair all day. Non-greasy Code 10 disappears in your
hair, gives it the clean, manly look that inflames women, tnfuriates

inferior men. Be in.
Get the non-greasy
hairdressing, Code10.,
It’s invisible, man!

Rush Wilson, Lin.

Fmperial Chagsies
Briarhibe

craftsmen,

Imperial Classics feature fine
’ Briarhide Calf Leather, soft glove
leather linings, storm welted
double leather soles and leather
heels, plus the exclusive Bates-
Flex construction designed for
comfort and flexibility. Ours

$26.95

weseeeefOX trot

twist... waltz

lindy...

samba

mambo...cha-
cha-cha..bend
dip..hop..step
turn...bump...

: whew. = s
things 8O
berth

Coke

TRAOE-MARRO

Bottled under the authority of
The Coca-Cola Company by:

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina
