PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1863

Side Lights

BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

TAKEN FROM THE TUBE...

After many seasons of television watching, I rec-
ognized a dramatic line that must be a television truth—
it’s used often enough. If it were Dr. Ben Casey he would
say, “Look I don’t tell you how to run your business, don’t
tell me how to practice medicine;”’ or, if it were Sam
Benedict he’d say, “I don’t tell you how to practice medi-
cine don’t tell me h»w to practice law.”

If this kind of reasoning is a truth for the characters
of the television world, it certainly doesn’t apply to the
real world of how to run a football team.

Since sometime late in the first quarter of last Fri-
day’s football game, |just about everyone remotely con-
nected with Davidson College has become an expert on
football who believes he should run the team.

The ‘“Monday-morning quarterbacking” and the
“second guess” are probably as much a part of watching
football as anything else. Unfortunately it has very little
to do with playing the game.

If a vote were taken among the now-blossoming
horde of football experts in the Charlotte area to deter-
mine whether or not to kick a field goal on fourth down
and less than one yard to go against Catawba, I imagine
the vote would be nearly unanimously, no.

Pve been asked if I would have ordered this field
goal. Well, sitting in the stands Friday or at home on
Sunday afternoon my reaction would be to say, no I would
not. But fortunately I did not have to make that decision
on the field nor has it been my profession to coach foot-
ball teams for a number of years. I am hardly an expert
nor are most of the people who have sounded their opin-
ions the past few days. Yet. the greatest part of this week
seems to have been spent musing over the sanity and
competence of the coach who called the play.

Coach Bill Dole has been coaching football since
1940. During this period he has coached in high school.
at East Carolina where he was named Coach of the Year
(1950) in the North State Conference, and at Davidson,

His overall coaching record is 149-105-7. His profession is|

coaching football.

Last Friday night. Coach Dole made the decision to With these familiar words, | Qe - aiM.
| Coach Heath Whittle summed +. ssc 6

attempt a’ field goal. Why did he make this decision?
Coach Dole readily admits that he believes in the
field goal as an offensive weapon. He bases this belief
on two reasons. First, a team which drives inside an op-
ponent’s five vard line and fails to score suffers a psycho-

’Cats Seek To Rebound ?
At Expense Of Citadel

BY JIM BEASLEY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

{ If Davidson can play 60 minutes of football like their first 39 against Catawba
last Friday night, they have a fine chance of opening the home season with a victory
over The Citadel. If they play as they did the last third of the Catawba game, it will
be a very long Saturday afternoon for the Wildcats.

Up until the last of the third
quarter, the ‘Cats dominated
play. They punched holes in the
Catawba line and bombed them
through the air for 241 yards.
The Indians were contained so
tightly they had only gained 77
total yards with six minutes left
in the third quarter.

Late in the first quarter Dav-
idson sustained a drive to the
Catawba one yard line, where on
fourth. down the Catawba line
held firmly. When a penalty a-
gainst Catawba gave the ‘Cats a

| second chance, Coach Bill Dole
elected to try a field goal. He
later explained, “We had made
a try from. the one and failed.
If we went for the touchdown
and were stopped again it would
; give Catawba a_ considerable
| boost in morale. In making a
field goal we would lead 3.0.”
However. the pass from center
was’ fumbled, allowing Catawba
time enough to block the kick.

Harriers Oppose
Wake In Opener

i “It’s hard to compete against
a subsidized team like Wake
Forest.”

up his first opponent of the
_1963 cross country season. The

Deacons wilt be here next Wed-|@
nesday afternoon to supply thel &

logical let-down, while the other team receives a psycho-
logical lift. The second reason is one of past experience:
He holds that the toughest place on the field to score
from is inside the opponent’s five yard line. (Remember.
last Friday that Davidson attempted to score. from the’!

Wildeat squad.

What the ‘Cats have gained in,
balance they have lost in depth: | 3%

End Eddie Gomez picked up the
blocked kick and ran 98 yards
to score. The Indians failed to
convert and Davidson trailed
6-0.

Minutes later the Wildcat of-
fense again began to roll with a
balanced attack. Quarterback
Benny Coxton sent fullback Pat
Fisher. Halfback Jim Fuller and
himself into the line with re-
peated success. When the
ground attack stalled, Coxton or
Quarterback Earl Cole kept the
drive alive with passes to split-
end Steve Heokard.

With six minutes gone in the
third quarter Fisher went over
from the one for Davidson's first
score. Bill Dole Jr. kicked the
extra point to put the ’Cats
ahead 7.6.

In the third period a Davidson
drive stalled until Cole came in
to pass 19 yards to Heckard. The
drive continued to the one
where Fisher again went in for
the score. Dole’s kick was suc-
cessful and.the ‘Cats had a 14-6
advantage.

At this point. for no apparent
reason, the Wildcats became
kittens. In the final 21 minutes
of play Catawba gained 130

yards while allowing Davidson
a mere 42. Big 6'5” end Bucky
Pope, a pro prospect, took
things in his capable hands,
catching two touchdown passes
to put the Indians ahead 18-14.
Both two-point attempts were
turned back, but the extra
points weren't necessary, as
Davidson was unable to score
again.

Fuller was leading rusher for
Davidson. The big halfback aver-
aged 4.6 yards in 10 carries. He
again had a fine night punting,
although marred when one tre-
mendous punt hit a power line,
knocking it back for short yard-
age. The only other punter to
ever hit that line was King Hill
of the Philadelphia Eagles when
they played in Memorial
stadium two yeas ago.

Tomorrow the 'Cats face a
Citadel team which lost 7-0 td
William and Mary last week in
their opening game. This indi-
cates the Bulldogs are a strong
team, aS William and Mary are
picked by many to finish first |
or second in the conference,

Game captains for Davidson
are Will Jackson, Bill Dole, and
Ear! Cole.

Kickoff in Richardson Field
will be at 2 p.m.

a:

Sed,
a

D

competition for a well-balanced &

~y

as

; | The KA’s, on the other hand,
I
'

iene 3
of blue suits is beginning his 98 yard emble

THIS IS WHAT STARTED IT ALL. Ca-
for six points. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

tawba end Eddie Gomey has scooped up Bill
Dole’s blocked field goa! and behind e wall

Surprising Sig Eps Share
Early Flickerball Top Spot

Another year of flickerball began Monday afternoon under the auspices of a re-
vamped IMAC. With the games through We dnesday, there were some familiar stories

YEA
TEAM

and a few surprises related by the standi ngs.

as the. Gams intercepted a total
of six in the game. The Sigma
Chi line play was sparked by the
rushes of Elly Pusser,

The Sig Eps played the only
cliff-hanger. Their last touch-
down with seconds to play a-
gainst the Pi Kapps climaxed a
come-from-behind victory and
put them in a tie for t.1e lead.

The biggest surprise, perhaps,
was the poor showing of
the. SAE's against the Betas on
opening day..A: last minute sub-

‘ stitution, “Pigpen” Kellett, ignit-
ed the SAE offense but failed to
close the 38 point deficit. The
Betas showed what appears to
be the best defense: in the

For the coming week, one of
the more interesting contests
should be the Beta-Independent
game next Tuesday. That will
match an excellent defense with:
a good offense.

fight...
fight...

have an excellent offensive com-
b

ination in Rick Smyre and

one yard line on fourth down and failed. The play was! @t the Present time, there are jay
subsequently nullified by an offside penalty against Ca-' Seven men competing for the, ™
tawba).-And vet failure to score from there often deter-: S°ven openings. When asked to,
mines the outcome of the game. ,fame his number-one man,’
A recent example of this took place at. Davidson last) Whittle said any of his first five, ..
year at Homecoming. William and Mary had the ball on| Ronnie Reese, Denny Phillips. Baggage
the Davidson six yard line first and goal to go in the sec-| Andy. Little, Tom Heffner. or
ond period. After three rushes William and Mary failed to|J°8" Barrow. could claim the
score and on fourth down they were stopped on the one| “istinction: he is not ready to
yard line. The final score was 7-7. make such a distinction this)
There are other examples but the point is that this’ ®"ly in the season. Harry
decision backfired Friday night. Perhaps, your decision| Blakeslee and Charlic Beswick):

does not agree with that of Coach Dole. But he made the | Turd out the squad. ¢

decision based upon his knowledge of football in accord-! Coach Whittle was not overly | '

ance to what he believed to be the play with the best! optimistic about the meet. He, & .., a

chance of succeeding. This is called “playing the percent-| did note that Davidson has been |e

ages.” It is done in any profession by any professional if| working out longer than Wake! aaa ; == . .

that professional is competent in his profession. Coaching} Forest, but Wake returns their | 7 my Se pe: ne agen iv Bo A
2 =O a Aone Ta eam. Fit es

entire 1962 team and should] * .
prove themselves more than HARRY BLAKESLEE LEADS THE WAY THROUGH THE
equal to Davidson's “magnifi-/ WOODS on the last lap of the cross country course. (Staff Photo

football is Coach Dole’s profession.

STOLEN FROM THE SCREEN ...

Haynes Kelly. In a meeting with a
‘| the equally offensive Independ- FLICKERBALL

lents, the two teams appeared STANDINGS : |

about. equal offensively; how- | gj. 20 BBB

4 | ever. defensive lapses by the In- 8 =P

s. Beta 2-0

| dependents told the story as KA 2.0 a

they fell 32-20. Phi Gams 10 ive

In the Phi Gam-Sigma Chi | Sigma Chi 1-7

. game, interceptions were the | Ind. 11

deciding faetor. After rolling | Kappa Sigs 0.0

over an-impotent Phi Delt squad | Pi Kapp 0-1 asEn

;on Monday, the Sigma Chi of- | PiKA 0-1

| fense faltered- before the Gam | Sigma Nu 0-1 .

Hline. Rick Brand and Sammy | ATO 0-1

-Going were the line stalwarts, ] Phi Delt 01 e ax
.| Brand intercepting threc passes | SAE 0.

: - the ax
the ax

Like almost anything else at Davidson the outraged
indignation at Coach Dole for “losing” a football game
will soon pass away. However, something is sure to re-
main for it has been at Davidson since I arrived here..

This week football players, faculty members, stud-
ents, alumni and others have used the blocked field goal
to explain why last Friday’s game was lost. This is every-
one's excuse or reason or what-have-you for this defeat.
There is always a reason (just one) for losing, no matter
what is lost. Perhaps this even goes a little bit further
than football, perhaps it enters into the activity of every-
one. It’s the cry of the loser.

Above, I said “something” has been at Davidson since
I have arrived. This statement in itself has very little
meaning and I’m not sure I can explain it so I'd like to
borrow the explanation from a movie—‘“The Hustler.”
If you haven’t seen the movie, it may not help but per-
haps the idea will be conveyed anyway.

In the movie, Fast Eddie has just beaten Minnesota
Fats in straight pool for eight hours. At the end of this
time Fats retires to the washroom, cleans up and comes
out to play pool again. In the meantime Fast Eddie has
bought a pair of pints of liquor and is hurriedly emptying
them. In the next six hours Minnesota Fats beats Fast
Eddie twice, both times badly.

Several days later the gambler (George Scott), the
all-knowing, unfeeling observer sits talking to Eddie. e
And he tells him, “Yes sir, Eddie I knew you were a loser| Wher questioned about a pos-
the first time I saw you. Now you take the Fat Man, he ‘ible starting lineup, Fegleman
was great. You beat his brains out for eight hours and|ia replying noted several line
what did he do? He washes up, combs his hair, puts on a| 40d backfield switches. Both Jan
little cologne, powders his hands, chalks his stick and|Brakel -and Mike Nemir have
says, ‘Let’s play pool, Fast Eddie! And what do you do?}>een moved from the line to
You wrap your hand around a bottle and get clobbered. | halfback positions.

Sure you were drunk. But you wanted to get drunk. You
wanted a reason to lose, Eddie, you're a loser. And that’s dl
the difference between you and the Fat Man.”

So what’s the parallel? Minnesota Fats gets clobber-
ed. He offers no reason, no excuse, he got beat. And what
does he do? He looks the man who just clobbered him
in the face and says “Let’s play pool, Fast Eddie.”

Fast Eddie is good (perhaps better) but he can’t win.
So what's the difference between this winner and this
loser? It’s the Fat Man’s knowledge in his ability and his
confidence that he can win. It’s the same thing that
makes a fighter get off the canvas and go after his oppon-
ent. And it’s the same thing that makes a farmer who is
ruined by drought start over again. The loser always has
a reason to lose. That's why he’s a loser.

This illustration is not merely intended to point a
finger at the football team or any other specific person
or persons because it applies to anyone who clutches at
straws and has their own reason for losing. It is directed
against an attitude. ;

This attitude has been too long the way at Davidson.
It’s time to quit crying and alibiing—it’s time to dry the
tears and play pool.

QUERY...

Building bonfires and hanging people in effigy is
great fun, even sport, and may even show school Spurn.
T asked the question, “Has anyone ever heard of an effigy-
hanger being hung in effigy?”

cent seven.”

with Belmont Abbey.

Coach Fogleman reports that
his squad has “a lot of depth
and good individual athletes. If
we can get them all together,
we'll have a fine season.” For
Fogleman, the most important
factors indicating the team’s ef-
fort and interest were the two
excellent intra-squad scrim-
mages last week.

—

5 _ ~

head.

THE CAMERA CATCHES Mike Nemir as

The answer: It‘s hard to hang a chicken without a/he shoots for the goal in preseason soccer
‘ practice. Coach Harry Fogleman’s mud-lappers

by Chatterjee)

Will You See Tuesday’s
Home Soccer Match?

BY ERIC NICHOLS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

With a successful two weeks of practice behind them, the soccer team is eagerly | f
putting the finishing touches on their plays in anticipation of their first game Tuesday

Because the halfbacks have
so much field to cover, Fogle-
man plans to use two alterna-

ting “platoons.” Brake! and
Nemir comprise one platoon
while the other consists of

Wayne Lane and Dave Olin.

Tarby Bryant, Howard Morris
and sophomore Gus Brown are
candidates for the fullback posi-
tions.

On the line likely starters are
wings Ben Nzengu, Lewis Foss
and Alan Arthurs. Simon Hen-
son has been moved from wing
to imside, playing along with

_~

open thelr season Tuesday with a game with
Belmont Abbey. (Steff Photo by MeCutchen)

. ahold
that
fine
ficht...
fight...
fight...
WEA

|
ee.

val

wy

’ &
Walt Eckman. The center’ posi- fe
tion is occupied by Fred Schoen. | }.. ..»

Lyman Dillon, as goalie, is iS , ;
backed up by the efforts of Ted
Pullian.

A fitting summation of the
team may be found in the com-
ments of team captain Schoen.
He said, “I think we have more | >
talent than ever before. We have | 72
every expectation of the best]
season yet.” Schoen added, “Our | &
first game will be our easiest,
and it will give us a chance to
work together and see how we'll
do.”

. base, are

2, | bkgh™.

WAS THIS MAN AIMING FOR THE POWER LINE? Jim Fuil-
er shown practicing his punting joins the seleot company of King
‘Hit! as a result of his punt Friday night which struck a power
line 100 feet above the field. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

cere ’ oe aoe

TEAM

whew
pause

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

things £0
better

with

Now Bus Station and
Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

Bottled under tho authority of
Tho Coca-Cola Company by: J

Coca-Cola Bottling Co.
Of Concord
Concord, N.C.

