Che Bauvidsanian

«HE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Of Standardized Tests

In the Trustee action on the faculty
oath last week are several changes of
significance:

—The wording of the pending re-
ligious test should prove less onerous
than the present vow.

—Utilizing the format of a religious
test rather than an oath should be less
offensive to those involved.

—Taking the oath publicly at com-
mencement, a frequent complaint, has
been eliminated.

—Religious requirements for the
Bible and Philosophy Departments
have been altered so that faculty mem-
bers in the departments do not neces-
sarily have to be Presbyterians.

—Only a majority of the full profes-
sors must be Presbyterians under the
pending change. Presently, 75 per
cent of that group must be Presby-
terians. (Accompanying this proposal
is another, namely, that a majority of
the entire faculty must be Presby-
terians. Currently, there is no such
requirement.)

—All faculty members who have
not taken the oath will be required
to answer the prescribed religious
questions before being granted tenure
or a promotion.

—Prospective faculty members will
be required to answer the prescribed
religious questions prior to nomina-
tion.

s s s

The pending questions are not as
acceptable as those approved by the
Trustees in their February meeting
this year, questions which were not
formally passed in May. However; re-
lative to the present vow, we feel the
proposed changes are a decided im-
provement if a vow is necessary.

Undoubtedly, the College has the
right to set.the requirements for facul-
ty members. But does this mean that
a formal inquisition of prospective
faculty members is necessary, whether
in the outline of an oath or merely as
prescribed questions?

There exists on our faculty a small
number of otherwise qualified men
who in honesty to themselves cannot
submit to the present vow or pending
questions. The vise in which they are
now placed is quite real.

But our greatest concern is for
Davidson College in the years ahead.
Davidson has made significant steps

towards providing for both her faculty
and students an atmosphere of re-
sponsible freedom, an atmosphere
conducive to open discussion and
creativity. That this freedom is not
superficial—that freedom really exists
—is obvious to anyone associated with
the college. Hopefully, this liberty is
cherished by everyone associated with
the college to the degree that we
cherish it.

For the Trustees to determine to
place before each prospective faculty
member certain prescribed religious
questions is an honest action. David-
son is a liberal arts institution, a school
devoted to ferreting out the Truth,
whatever it may be. And she is at-
tempting to be honest and truthful
with prospective members of the
faculty. Nothing is hidden: prospective
faculty members are confronted with
the prescribed religious questions be-
fore nomination.

But in her attempt to be truthful,
the College is promoting a lie, a lie
that hurts the institution. Unfortunate-
ly the questions will all too frequently
be viewed as indicative of an institu-
tion concerned with indoctrination.
And hopefully the College is attempt-
ing to hire men interested in educa-
tion, not indoctrination. Davidson is
not a dogmatic institution, but we
sincerely fear that such will tend to
be her unwarranted reputation in fu-
ture years. “

What then can be done? Is not
Davidson College a church-related,
liberal arts institution?

We feel that the standards expect-
ed for teachers desired at Davidson
should be made clear by the Trustees
after consultation with members of
the present faculty and administra-
tion. Then the President and Dean of
Faculty should be entrusted with the
responsibility of determining whether
prospective faculty members measure
up to these standards. The manner in
which the Presidént and the Dean of
Faculty assure themselves that the
requirements are met in prospective
professors should and would vary ac-
cording to the individual under con-
sideration.

In this manner Davidson’s religious
ties could be maintained in a harmon-
ious relationship with her increasingly
proud tradition of the liberal arts ed-
ucation.

The Tide Turns

The action of the Supreme Court
Monday raises questions as to the
Court's consistency: the justices refus-
ed to rule oh a complaint by a group
of white parents in Brooklyn, N. Y.,
whose children were assigned to a
new junior high school outside their
home area on the basis of race in an
effort to bring about more “balanced”
integration.

Even in contending that ‘neither
their (the children’s) race, color, creed,
nor national origin is made a criterion
for their admittance” to the junior
high school, the New York City Board
of Education conceded the site for the
new school was selected “primarily
because it is located on the fringe of
an area which is predominantly Negro
and Puerto Rican and near an area
in which the large majority of re-
sidents is white. Board policy is that
integration be one of several factors
in the selection of sites and in the zon-
ing of schools.”

The parents petitioning maintained:
“Petitioners do not object to having
their children attend school with non-
whites. They do object to the assign-
ment of their children to a school in
a slum to satisfy a ‘political com-
promise’ brought about by pressure
on the board of education. solely be-
cause their children are white.

“Had the same treatment been giv-
en to children of any other color or
race, it would never have been coun-
tenanced by any court. Petitioners
(the white parents) believe that the
constitution is color-blind, and that
they are not to be denied rights grant-
ed to others solely because they are
white.”

A decade ago the Supreme Court
evoked what appeared to be an‘inces-
sant uproar by ordering the end to
“separate but equal” public school
facilities. In explaining its action the
court stated in part:

“To separate them (children) from
others of similar age and qualifica-
tions solely because of their race gen-
erates a feeling of inferiority as to
their status in the community that
may affect their hearts and minds in
a way unlikely ever to be undone.”

Of particular interest here is the
phrase “solely because of race.” In
essence,- the Court’s 1954 decision
ordered that race not be a criterion in
determining what school a child will
attend. The court attacked very speci-
fically the doctrine of ‘separate but
equal” facilities; less sharply
stated—but nonetheless present—was
a refutation of race as a criterion in
pupil assignment in public schools.
The obvious feeling of the 1954 Court
was that the Constitution is a “color-
blind” document, that all citizens are
accorded equal rights and privileges
under it.

But while the Constitution is held
to be a racially indiscriminate docu-
ment, apparently the Court makes
racial distinctions. Ten years ago the
plaintiffs were Negroes; this year the
petitioners are whites. Ten years ago
race as a criterion for public school as-
signment was abolished by the Court;
this year the Court refused to hear
charges that race was being used as
a criterion for public school assign-
ment.

The actions must be reconciled be-
fore justice can be meted out.

The actions cannot be reconciled.

Associate Editors

Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth

Tim Kimrey

Managing Editors ....... John Todd
Mike Harrington

News Editor Rufus Adair
Feature Editor. Bob Strauser
Sports Editor .... Johnny Clark.

Assistant Sports Editor _. Bill Briggs
Circulation Manager .. Malcolm Lane

Copy Editor —........... Allen Webb
Asst. Copy Editors -—----~. Bill Aitken
Calvin Zon

.. Sam Smith
Tom Thel
Erskine Sproul
Jack Lingle
Rufus Hallmark

Lou Hill

Asst. Business Mgr. —- Irvine Welling
Advertising Mgr. -—-- Bob Cameron

Photographers .....

Cartoonists

Contributors this week: Bob Vance, Bob Holladay, Mike Bates, Don Davis,
Al Carson, Bert Whisenant. Bob Howard, Bill Farr, Ross Cornwell, Tim
Rothermel, Britt Snider, Walt Drake, John Bailey, Jamie Bryant, Will Shack-
leford, Paul Marion, Heyward Carter, Ted Glusman, Greg Haynes, Dick
Spencer, Tom Cook, Larry Norfleet, John Allen, Mike Mooty, Steve Brown,

Tucker Laxton and Sam Boyte.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Pest Office ef Davidson, North Carolina,
under Act of March 3, 1879.

eee el S. a
—— —_

.
2
Tre ~

.

Flagging Spectator Spirit
Upsets Davidson Alumnus

Dear Editor:

1 attended the Homecoming
football game with Richmond
last Saturday and was of course
disappointed with the result as
were other friends of Davidson.

I was, however, more disap-
pointed with the apparent lack
of school spirit by the student
body as evidenced by the mass
exit of students and dates dur-
ing the early part of the fourth
quarter.

No matter the score,, your rep-
resentatives on the field were
giving their best and deserve
support.

I hope this incident is not
truly representative of the
‘Wildcat’ spirit at Davidson.

Louis Hite ‘41
Florence, S. C.

Sackett

Dear Eattor:

I would like to take this op-
portunity to answer some ques-
tions concerning the Great Is-
sues program which were rais-
ed in your last edition.

This year’s Great Issues is
“Politics—Election ‘64°° and
deals with aspects of the issues
facing the people in this elec-
tion. The program attempts to
present both sides, and give
some aspects of the dialogue
between liberal and conserva-
tive views.

The program is organized in
three parts: (1) scholars pre-
paring the students on aspects
ef the issues: (2) actual: poli-

Rising ‘Goldwater’ Tides
Helped By New Scandal

ticians themselves, to reflect
the campaign: and (3) a resume
after the election. Dr. Triffin,
with the help of Dr. Patterson,
started the series. The second
part is between Republicans
and Democrats. For the latter
are Sen. Randolph, Harry Gold-
en, and Henry Hall! Wilson.. For
the former are Charles Mitchell,
Mr. Babcock. hopefully Sen.
Thurmond, and Representative
Jonas, giving the Republicans
an edge of one.

Dr. Triffin started the pro-
gram off on the high level it was
intended. He gave an objective
view of some of the more im-
portant economic issues which
will be decided in this election.
The international monetary sys-
tem, and its implications to
foreign aid, balance of pay-
ments, the gold standard, and
aid to underdeveloped nations
are issues on which both presi-
dential canidates and parties
have taken differing stands.

Perhaps I should now list
those Republicans which we in-
vited. They are: Barry Gold-
water, Richard Nixon, Margaret
Chase Smith, Claire Booth Luce,
Governor Scranton, Sen. Tower
of Texas, and Gov. Underwood,
the 1960 keynoter at the Republi-
can convention. I would also say
that if Senator Goldwater had
come to Charlotte before 12
o'clock on the 21st of September,
he would have stopped at Dav-
idson.

Gov. Wallace, a conservative,
was unable to find a suitable
date after tentatively accepting

FROM THE BACK OF THE BUS
lc thatch aca

Barry And Bill Miller:
‘Myth Shrouds Reality’

By CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Election day draws near, and Barry Goldwater con-
tinues his wild swings about the nation, making charges
and then explaining what he really meant to say to the
confused voters. _

We would like to help him out by clarifying three
of his positions that have attracted much interest. Our
purpose is only to elucidate, for we realize the futility
of attempting to convert the Goldwater disciples.

We must tread carefully as we try to penetrate the
Goldwater fog, for. we know that anything we say will
probably be dismissed by Goldwaterites as a “glib”
statement.

In recent weeks, the Republican candidate has step-
ped up his attack on two issues, alleged “softness on
communism“ by the present Administration and ‘“im-
morality” in that Administration.

The first charge is a gutter issue not worth consid-
ering here. It calls to mind the witch-hunts carried on
by Joe McCarthy a decade ago. That the accusation is
preposterous is indicated by the fact that even Dick
Nixon denies its truth. We guess that Barry only raised
it to please the John Birch-nuts and their ilk.

The second charge, the first of the three to be seri-
ously considered in this column, is that corruption has
tainted the Johnson administration. The Republicans,
we are'told, will clean out men like Walter Jenkins and
Bobby Baker.

A glance at the Republican past is no cause for re-
assurance. Republicans still flinch when they are re-
minded about Teapot Dome. And more recently, the
G.O.P. gave us Sherman Adams and vicuna coats.

Of course it isn’t fair to lump Barry with past R&
publicans and say that he is condemned to commit their
mistakes over again. He is, by general admission, an
uncommon Republican.

Will he bring morality to Washington? No, he

will bring with him William Miller, hardly a man from
whom great devotion to principle can be expected.
__ Miller has already been snared in one conflict-of-
interest charge. But his finest hour was in 1956, when
he rather abruptly changed his mind on civil rights leg-
islation then pending in the House of Representatives.

__ Miller‘was listed as a sponsor of the rights bill and
is more than a chapel talk, for vigorously supported it in committee. During the de-
some of the best ‘dialogue’ bate, the Senate passed a measure to authorize the
has come out in coffee hours. federal government to develop electric power at Niagara
It is a great opportunity, but Falls, which is in Miller’s district. As a major spokes-
it takes an awareness and pre- man for private power, Miller saw his chief hope of
examination on the part of Dav- stopping the power bill in the House Rules Committee.
idson students to gain the most During floor debate on the civil rights measure, Miller
benefit from it, completely reversed his position, calling the bill uncon-

Fred Sackett Stitutional. House Rules Committee Chairman Howard
Davidson College Smith and committeeman Colmer of Mississippi then
pigeonholed the power bill.

F The complete hypocrisy of ‘Miller's turnabout was
oss put in glaring relief by his vote for the 1964 Civil Rights

Act. Republicans might want to compare Miller’s con-
Dear Editor: version in 1956 to that of Paul on the road to Damascus.

The parking situation around We call it “wheeling and dealing” in its crassest form.
Davidson College remains bad

year around, and becomes in- 0 iti t b ._.

tolerable during a dance week- | Opposition to public power projects is one of the
end. It is impossible most of Principles Senator Goldwater is Lt posed to adhere to
the day for people who have a most Strongly. He has called the Tennessee Valley Au-
parking sticker to find a place thority “a socialistic venture” and has advocated Selling:
to park close to the dormitories. its steam plants to private interests.

No longer is it enough to just Yet he is co-sponsor of the Central Ari: j
increase the number of parking (CAP), a billion-doliar federally-financed scheme to siphon
tickets being issued. It is time off Colorado River water to irrigate thirsty Arizona farm-
that the problem cease to be land. Providing the power to pump the water over the
ignored and some action mountains into B; 4

taken either to increase the federally-financed dains, home state will be two huge

number of useful parking places Other power produced at th i

Set A'S pt ce SGD Mabie ole As CAP woud) THA
ing the pres Powers? go ederal investment through sales of

Davidson College Somehow Barry Goldwater draw istincti
S$ a distinction be-
tween CAP and TVA, supporting one and attacking the
tiott “Apparently (his) Position, °

Ss remarked, “is that if you spend $1.7 i

for a public power project to server sever Southern
States, that is socialism. But the spending of $1.1 billion
for the same purpose in one state is enlightened conser-

vatism — if that state just h
water's.” just happens to be Senator Gold-

(which held us up on contacting
others). .

I: still strongly feel that the
Great Issues program is offer-
ing the Davidson students an op-
portunity to examine ‘many of
the important issues of this cam-
paign, and to talk with some of
the political figures who will
decide what our country will do
in the next four years. But it

Alabama Rep. Car] EI-

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON * ¢ ¢

Davidsonian Managing Editor
_ How much will the Walter Jenkins case hurt the Democrats?
lievably crowded with urgent news developments revealed a new scandal in the strike must

_ “The right to bargain collectively is well i
A week unbe- in our society and must be reserved a The went to

e protected.” om a collection of Gold-

Johnson administration, a power shake-up in the Kremlin, ‘nuclear noises” from Red water statements publishe i iti
China and a hurricane — all potentially big developments on the American poli- for Goldwater). P d by North Carolina Citizens

tical scene.
The latest Washington scan-

dal certainly will hurt Johnson sue. The rugged romantic ap- a strong Mansfield showing

—the question is how much?
Goldwater's charges of immor-
ality and. corruption in high
places seem both prophetic and
knowledgable after last week.

Some news sourees and. ana-
lysts. say that local and state
races will also be affected—sav.
ing a few Republicans other-
wise in trouble.

While it is quite possible that
the impact of the scandal will
be balanced by the impact of
recent foreign news, the John-
son lead will probably be cut
down.

These recent news develop-
ments, coming just at a time
when the Johnson campaign
peaked and began a decline,
give a sharp boost to a rising
Goldwater tide. The race in
many states was already close:
now it is even closer.

There is a feeling prevalent
that this election is going to be
a disaster for the pollsters. Vet-
eran news analysts say there is
something unpredictable in the
mood of the people this year—
no one is sure what this por-
tends. No matter who wins, it
is quite likely that the pollsters
will be embarrassed.

This is because there are so
many “submerged” issues this
year—that is, issues that may
affect voters in ways they are
ashamed to admit.

tights question is one such is-

peal of the Goldwater image is
another such example,

Yet the election is only a week
and a half away. The big—over
all question is this: Can Barry
Goldwater gain enough to off-
_set the huge Johnson lead?

Next week's THE DAVID-
SONIAN will reveal the editor
making his endorsement and a
managing editor giving final
prognostications.. Check and see
how close we are. Somebody's
job could be at stake.

California: Crucial state in
GOP campaign strategy. Mili-
tant conservatives feuding with
moderate Republicans, plus
poor big-city organizations,
make Goldwater's chances slim.
Best bet here is the Democratic
lead has slipped. but that John-
son will still take the big forty
electorial votes at stake.

Oregon: Despite sixteen years
of going for Republican presi-
dential candidates, this North-
western state goes for LBJ by
some fifty thousand votes.

Washington: There is econom-
ie discontent here, mostly caus-
ed by high unemployment. John-
son is ahead by a whisker.

fdaho: Here again battling
GOP factions hurt Goldwater's
chances, but there is much senti-
ment for the Arizonian. Give it
to Goldwater by half a whisker
and check next week's predic-

The civil tions.

* After reading the above statement, we would expect
Montana: Close race here, but tO find evidence to support Senator Goldwater as a
friend of the working man and trade unions.
helps pull Johnson through. No such evidence exists.

Wyoming: Another real close First, he has long supported “right-to- ”
one, too close to make a pre- that state legislatures ay enact under tthe Tate Hartge
diction right now. A toss-up. law to ban union security contracts. During the last ses-
Nevada: No “Gamblers for sion of Congress, he went one better on this anti-labor
Johnson” organization, but he is position by proposing a law that-would allow unions and
nonetheless considered a sure employers to enter into union-shop contracts only where
thing. Good ti ‘an states adopt laws authorizing such pacts.
count by governnn ey ___ Second, he favors a ban on union spending in poli-
tracts, make safe votes for tics. This is not hard to understand, coming from the
Tae I nem man who in 1958 was named by organized labor as the
Colorado: Inde pendent vote is senator it would most like to unseat.
strong here. Goldwater probab- Third, he backed in the last Congress a bill to give
ly won't attract enough of these the management of railroads unilateral authority to de-
cide what manpower was “reasonable and needed.” Un- |

voters to win — give this state :
to Johnson. der the law, unions would have been unable to strike

Arizona: Believe it or not, against such decisions. Their only source of redress
some observers think Johnson woul pane been in the courts.
may carry the state. But though | Fourth, there is the Goldwater positi \.
it may be closer than most peo- Plication of anti-trust laws to labor ‘unions. ‘The seme.
ple think, Goldwater will carry tor’s vacillation on this issue should be sufficient to ban-
his home state. ish the idea that he never changes a position.
New Mexico: Razor-thin mar- Application of the anti-trust laws h |.
gin for Johnson. ; dling problem for Barry. In The Consicnce acon
Alaska: After natural disas- vative. he supported bringing labor under anti-trust reg:
ters in the spring, many Alack- ulation. In its, he recanted from this position be-
ans are § o be unwilling to cause he had decide i- i
follow up with @ national dis- unworkable. d that anti-trust application would be ve
aster. Johnson by a landslide. During the last session of Con
Hawail: Easy victory for in- second 180-degree shift on the issue when ‘he ‘sponsored
cumbent President. a law that would apply the anti-trust laws to unions in the
Totals for the Northwestern transportation field.
and Rocky Mountain states:
Goldwater: 2 states with 9 s . 7 6
electoral votes. o much for Senator Goldwa i .
Johnson: 10 states with 83 elec. votion to his principles. ter and his undying de

toral votes. We still do not plan to vote f
Toss-up: 1 state with 3 elec- Nov. 3. Betauseave won't be voting ag lone month
toral votes, after the electorate has rendered its decision.

