Che Sauidsonian

(HE NEWS ANO EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1964

(Letters to “he editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

The Court

The casual observer can (see
twelve houses valued at more than a
half-million dollars and situated on a
circular road. If he asks, he will have
little difficulty finding out that three
out of every four Davidson students
are members of the Greek letter
organizations occupying the houses
which serve as the center—and, for
the most part, the whole—of Davidson
social life.

For almost a century Greek letter
organizations have existed on the Da-
vidson campus. They have functioned
not only as centers for social activity
but also as fraternal organizations or
groups of close friends. Freshmen
have found in fraternities a continua-
tion of the orientation program as
well as incessant drive for academic
improvement.

Davidson men read in national
publications that fraternities are on
the decline, that it is only a matter of
time before fraternities will die out.
Then turning back to their Piedmont
campus they laugh at such .an idea
and point to the three national fra-
ternities that have been added to the
campus since World War II. “Other
schools have problems, but we haven't
got anything to complain about here.”

Then Bob Young takes issue.
Young, a member of a “strong” fra-
ternity and a recent graduate of Da-
vidson (Class of 1961), questions the
authenticity of the “Brotherhood.” He
asks if the continued orientation is
truly good: is not the freshman actu-
ally being directed more to the fra-
ternity than to the college? Is not the
freshman being “oriented” away from
his first loyalty and primary concern?
And the former fraternity liaison of-
ficer, while not questioning the frater-
nity drive for academic excellence,
chastises fraternities for their apathy
towards extra-curricular intellectual
and cultural activities.

One of Young’s strongest griev-
ances lies with the fraternities’ rejec-
tion of a large number of each year’s
Freshman Class—this year approxi-
mately 50 out of 275 received no bids
—and the ill effects of the experi-
ence on the rejected individual.

IFC President Rick von Unwerth
did not follow Young’s Monday talk
with a rebuttal. Rather he admitted

that many evils lie in the system. He
pointed to:

“1. The immediate confrontation
of the freshman with a magnified so-
cial concern, and the immediate de-
mand for a decision of which he is
incapable at the beginning of his first
year.

“2.. The energy and time required
of the freshman in immature activi-
ties which mock the avowed intention
of pledge ‘character-building.’

“3. An unwarranted feeling of su-

Surely, if there is one campus-
wide organization which has the re-
sponsibility for such an undertaking,

at body is the IFC. Von Unwe
and the IFC are in a position to ef-
fect “positive, constructive programs’
we are watching for steps in that di-
rection.

Speaking of the freshman who,
after joining a fraternity, tends to “di-
vorce himself from the activities of
the campus,” the IFC president points
to campus leaders who are in fraterni-
ties. He contends, “These are the
men the fraternity pledge has imme-
diate access to.” May we infer from
this that there is no problem? Or is it
simply that rubbing elbows with the
BMOCs is the best possible solution
to this problem?

Deferred Rush

We strongly support Young’s sug-
gestion that rush be delayed. He seeks
sophomore rush; we feel second se-
mester would be an adequate delay
and would avoid the financial prob-
lems of sophomore rush.

Imperative is that freshmen have
an opportunity to become adjusted to
Davidson College as a whole and as a
Freshman Class. This can be accom-

lished only over a period of time and
it is best accomplished if the fresh-
man has not been first shuttled into
this or that pledge class, whose pri-
mary purpose is the advancement of
this or that fraternity.

We share Young’s feelings for the
“27 per cent.” And while we do not
support 100 per cent bidding, we feel
that deferred rush would be a step
that would lessen the shock of receiv-
ing no bid: all freshmen would have
had a chance to become oriented to
the college as a whole. Under.a de-
ferred rush system they would know
that a person can survive at David-
son College without a fraternity for
they would have done just that for
the previous semester.

Currently the rejected freshman
has nothing to fall back upon: he has
been at Davidson almost two weeks
and has heard night and day about
the importance of a fraternity. Prior
to his arriva! on. campus, he found
fraternity letters and publications in
his mail box daily. And suddenly the
fraternity system does not want him.

The sensation is unique in a life-
time. Unfortunately, the happening is
far from unique at Davidson.

Also important is the fact that
over a semester, a freshman and a
fraternity would have a better chance
to get to know each other. ‘“Who-do-
you-know” would grow old; the rela-

Dear Editor:

I address the following letter
to Mr. Robert C. Young:
Dear Mr. Young:

After listening to your solu-
tion of the fraternity problem.
1 see how the college could be
improved through your sugges-
tions. Perhaps, your ideas could
be applied to college admissions
with equal success. I am sure

the plan I wish to suggest is
as workable as yours.

Since Davidson College, like

fraternities, is selective, many
students are disappointed by re-
jection. Why not admit every-
one who applies for admission?
That way, no one would feel
rejected. Of course, you will
say there is not enough room
for all the applicants. This can
be solved by admitting the first
three hundred to apply or by
drawing three hundred applica-
tions from a bin where all ap-
plications could be stored.

If this. nonselective, nonex-
clusive policy was adopted. the
prospective Davidson student
would not be forced to fit David-
son's, standards. During high
school he would not have to
participate in activities in ord-
er to be called “well rounded."
As you called him, Mr. Young,
“a zero.” Even schoo! work
be put aside if he thought it
it was choking his individual
characteristics.

Without fear of not fitting
into the acceptable fraternity
or college mould. the student
could let his true characteris-
tics shine through. The frater-
nities and the college would
then gain many true characters.

If these accepted characters
ever found they did not like
Davidson, they could, like disil-
lusioned pledges. turn in their
pledge pins and get immediate
bids from other enlightened
colleges.

Mr. Young, I am sure that
the above plan would do as
much good for the college as
yours would for the fraternity
system.

J. P. Schrader
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN wel-
comes letters from any read-
er, either in support of or
differing from its policies.
Letters should be typewrit-
ten, doubled-spaced, and
should not exceed 250 words.

We also will receive longer
articles, but request that
they be cleared with the edi-
tor.

In order to be printed in
the following issue, ‘etter

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

Fraternity Dialogue InvadesCampusComplacency

Tug O' War =.

by Hallmark

Burns

Dear Editor:

On behalf of the YMCA Cabi
net, I would like to think you
and the rest of THE DAVID-
SONIAN staff for your support
of the our financial drive. In
addition. your cooperation in
publicizing our over-all pro-
gram has been greatly appreci-
ated.

I wish to compliment one idea
which was set forth in your. edi-
torial. No president of this or-
ganization has ever been ‘‘res-
ponsible" for its program. He is
backed by a Cabinet. a group
of students dedicated to the ful-
fillment of the Y’s goal. There
are also those in the student
body who deserve a great deal
of recognition for their interest
and participation in behalf of
the Y. Finally, no president of
the YMCA could look back with
any degree of objectivity on the
program without realizing the
major contributions that Will
Terry makes each year as ad-
visor.

The Cabinet hopes this year's
program will be a meaningful
one for all members of the stu-
dent body. We have formulated
it. hoping that we indeed might
“deserve the support of every
single member of this commun-
ity’, both “collectively and in-
dividually.”

This year a_ different ap-
proach has been taken, in that
we have already established
our program and committed
ourselves for various speakers.
Thus, the college’s support is
imperative. With a united ef-
fort, there will again be an ac-

Autrey
Edwards

Dear Editor:

Once More
With Feeling

By TIM KIMREY

Davidsonian Associate Editor

Bob Young started the controversy raging again in
For more than two weeks it chapel on Monday; it had lain dormant for three years.
has. been virtually impossible The Fraternity system must change, must eliminate its

to fina rooms for dates for the

inherent evils, if it is to survive on the Davidson campus.
Von Unwerth answered on Tuesday. Agreed on ideals.

upcoming concert weekend. Al- But, upon the fraternity system should not lie all the
most every home in Davidson Dlame for the plight of the independent; rather the Col-

plus every nearby motel is full
to capacity, and yet some stu- system.
dents have not found places for
their dates to stay.

adequate

lege should be reminded that it has failed to provide an
Social outlet for those outside the fraternity

_Young proposed sophomore rush and 100 per cent
bidding. Von Unwerth countered with suggestion that

a social outlet be provided through :
Considering this, we propose affiliated students rough eating clubs for un

that at least one dormitory be

cleared for the use of dates on COmmunity

The ominous and sickening fact here is that our little
of learning is divided on this, as on every

such weekends. This would im. Other issue. As usual, the ‘‘sides” are the same: faculty

pose no great hardship upon the

and administration vs. the student-body. Of course, there
are those in each camp whose loyalties lie with the other

student body or the administra- side, but the impetus for so-called “anti-fraternity”
tion, and would certainly alle- measures comes from the Hill, and the push for a “pro-
viate the problem to some ex- fraternity” compromise is coming from the students.

tent. The rooms could be made

And it should be noted here that Mr. Young’s proposal

available for Saturday night WaS not an official administration proposal; it was made

only, or for both nights if neces-
sary.

by a concerned individual who has obviously done a lot
of serious thinking about the matter, and it should be
listened to as such.

Still, the fact remains that the College co ity i
Such action may seem unwar- astir over the question of fraternities, a the opposing
ranted, and is certainly a break colors are flying on the Hill and on the fraternity court.

with the “Davidson tradition,”

Somewhere in the midst of all this,

I finally saw that

but it would serve to relieve a “something” that has been bothering me about David-

problem which involves consid-

Some reason,
erable expenditure and a great fy] atmosphe

son College ever since I have been a student here. For
a very basic, if not always obvious, distrust-

revades the Davidson campus—a dis-

deal of travel on the part of a harmony exists between the Hill and the student body

majority of the student body.

which, in a very real way,
to become a first-class institution of higher learning.

limits Davidson’s aspirations

xen Autrey
Charles Edwards
Davidson College

should be received not later
than 4 p. m. Wednesdey. A!!
letters must be signed. The
mailing address is Box 2:.
Davidson, N. C.

tionship between fraternity and fresh-
man would be somewhat more than
superficial. The freshman who would
ordinarily be rejected has an oppor-
tunity of looking further rather than
being left in the cold; he has an op-
portunity to discern whether or not

Obviously, this is a very broad generalization—on
which would be seriously battered if hit with a barrage
of examples to the contrary. And 1 would not be so
naive as to maintain that such examples are few and far
between. Still, I cannot help but feel that the student
mind is influenced in its dealings with the Hill by a pre-
supposition that the faculty-administration is out to sur-

periority in boys who have been ac-
cepted in one blind week of surface
erusal, a concomitant trauma of re-
jection in boys whose merits were less
apparent during that week, and an
absence of concern for this situation

tive and meaningful organiza-
tion.
Lanier Burns
President of the YMCA
\ Davidson College

on the part of fraternities in general.
“4, The preclusion of interest in
worthwhile extra-curricular activities
by the demand of and devotion to a
mystic self-contained brotherhood.”
And what does von Unwerth pro-
pose to do about these problems?
To the problem of over-emphasis
on social life, he states: “It’s quite
possible that deferred rush could per-
haps produce some anxiety about de-
ferred social life. Now, regardless of
whether the fraternity and the’ boy
are ‘mistaken’ in choosing each other,
this forced association does indeed
provide for the freshman some oppor-
tunities in this perhaps superficial
realm that would be denied him if
all freshmen were required to wait a
year.”” But von Unwerth has failed to
direct his answer to the problem of
magnified social concern.
Responding to the problem of
wasted time and energy in pledge
“character-building,” the IFC presi-
dent says, “We hope that a frank
evaluation of this year’s pledge-train-
ing techniques and a_ discussion
among fraternity leaders of their ef-
fectiveness will result in further ad-
vances toward ultimately positive,
‘constructive programs to build con-
tributing students—not to mold pro-
totypes.”

he would really be happy at a partic-
ular house.

Freshman social life need not
shudder to a halt; rather rush would
adjust to accommodate freshman so-
cial life. Likewise rush would have to
be adjusted to a pace suitable for a
semester, a difficult but certainly not
an impossible task.

One fear which seems unwarrant-
ed is “The weak get weaker while
the strong get stronger.” This cliche
keeps springing up with every men-
tion of deferred rush. We do not think
it-is valid: almost all freshmen know
the “score” even before our present
rush week is over. Few freshmen pass
through rush week oblivious to cam-
pus ratings of each fraternity; they

ave enough time to become familiar
with the reputations of each frater-
nity.

Under a delayed rush system the
freshman has a chance to see that the
“best” are not as good and the
“worst” are not as bad as their cam
reputations would have it. Rather he
would have a chance to make a deci-
Sion on the basis of members with
whom he has developed a friendship.
He would be able to judge the in
viduals comprising the group rather
than the group itself.

Associate Editors Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg

Rick von Unwerth

Tim Kimrey

Managing Editors —..... John Todd

Mike Harrington

News Editor _..._._. Rufus Adair
Feature Editor Bob Strauser
Sports Editor —........ Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor _. Bill Briggs
Circulation Manager .. Malcolm Lane

Contributors the week: M. L. Can-
non, Deck Spencer, Mike Hunter,
Tom fPeaden, Tom Cook, Steve
- Brown, John Allen, Mike Mooty,
Neville Patterson, Paul Maron, Ed
Maxwell, Mke Bates, Tim Rother-
mel, Jamie Bryant, Louis Lesesne,

Copy Editor Don Davis
Asst. Copy Editors - Bill Aitken
Calvin Zon

Photographers Sam Smith
Tom Thel

Erskine Sproul

Cartoonists — Jack Lingle

Rufus Hallmark

. Lou Hill
Asst. Business Mgr. — Irvine Welling
Advertising Mgr. --—-- Bob Cameron

Harry Carr, Bert Whisenant, Ross
Cornwell, Will Shackleford, Bob
Vance, Frank Fleming, ‘Paul Monk,
Bill Farr, Joe Ford Bobby How-
ard, Ted Glusman, Lindsay Davis
and Heyward Carter.

Entered as Second Class Matter af the Pest Office at Davidson, North Careline,
under Act of March 3, 1879.

‘Greek’ Offers Proposal

Dear Editor:

This week seems to have
brought many comments and
suggestions concerning -the Dav-
idson fraternity system and to
this discussion I would Jike to
add my own reflections.

I feel that the present frater-
nity system. has a great deal of
value for both the college, per
se, and for the students. Frater.
nities offer a necessary retreat
from. the academic pressures
of the campus while not over-
shadowing the primary purpose
of the institution. The current
criticism, however, is, to some
extent, very justified.

The fraternity system plays a
major part in the life of all stu-
dents at Davidson and thus be-
cause of its important place on
this campus, it must not deny
the responsibility it has towards
those outside of the sysem.

The primary problem raised
by the fact that some of the
freshmen do not receive a bid.
or that some do nat
pledge because __ they
did not receive “desirable”

* bids, is the complete lack of

social facilities and opportuni-
ties available to the non-Greek.
Though rejection may be felt
initially, the non-pledge has no
problems in making friends
with the fraternity men on his
hall or in his class because of
the fact that he is not in a fra-
ternity.

Toa great extent it is the “left
out feeling" on dance week-
ends, the inability to easily get
a ride to Queens on Saturday
nights, or the problem of where
to take your folks to eat when
they come to visit that perpetu-
ates the feeling of rejection and
causes the frustrations that pre-
sently exist among many inde-

pendent freshmen.

The solution then does not lie
in the inauguration of 100 per
cent bidding, for this would only
change the fact of rejection
from an official one to an unof-
ficial one. but rather in the ex-
istence of some highly accepi-
able alternative to being in a
nationa) fraternity.

I would propose then that the
IFC take upon itself to work
with the men of Lingle Manor
and to share with them some
of the techniques of organiza-
tion, that fraternities have ac-
quired through the years.

If Lingle Manor could become
a more active institution on this
campus it would provide a
more acceptable alternative to
both the freshman who does not
receive a bid and to the one who
does not desire to join a frater-
nity.

Lingle Manor needs @ more
effective leadership and an un-
derstanding of the problems
confronting those who try to op-
erate a successful social organ-
ization.

If the IFC appointed a com-
mittee of fraternity leaders to
actually join Lingle Manor and
not take it over, but work with
the other members, I believe
that it could rise to a more re-
spected position on campus in
two or three years. When it be-
comes larger it could offer
boarding house privileges or
could provide a nucleus for the
formation of a social eating
club or of a local fraternity to
exist in addition to Lingle Man-
or.

If this state were achieved
then the independents would
have the choice between a soc:
jal organization that would re-

quire little time or expense and

press student desires and ideas. And th
paternalistic attitude among members. of the
e « « faculty-administration that says “don't 1
far; we’ve got to keep the upperhand.” et them go too
I have also noticed that many student requests are

many members of the

an eating club that would be an Viewed by faculty and administration alike as being
effective alternative for those Measures which would make it “easier” on students (e.g
desiring a more complete soc- free cuts, more liberal drinking rule, no required reli-
ial organization but not achiev. gious exercises, etc.). “You knew this was the ‘way it was
ing membership in one of the When you came to Davidson” and “The Students don’t
natonal fraternities on campus. run the College, you know” are oft-heard expressions

Lingle Manor and any other On the Hill.

similar organizations that might

This same blind stupidity is al ithi
develop in the future should be Student body by such iphrases as “The esate nttte

phrases as “The Dean's office

offered full dues paying voting Spends half its time thinking up raw deals for the stu-

membership in the IFC if de- dents” and “Dr.
wall, of course) on a review.”
And it jnakes me sick.
While I certainly do not santion ei °
I. do feel that it is an effective alized attitudes of sttainly. de seek ita
alternative that should be care- the administration in particular has been

sired.
The above outlined proposal is
not without its weaknesses but

really loves to screw you (to the

suspicion, I certainly do feel that
guilty of a

fully consigered by the frater- very serious misconception in its idea of what it means

nity men as opposed to making for a college to
changes in the present basis for Education is not

membership in fraternities.

Provide an education for its students.
knowledge imparted to unknowledge-

ables in an institution where all the rules of the game

I also feel that the position of are fixed (and I do mean fixed!) by the powers-that-be.

fraternities

on this campus It is, if it is to be effective, an experience in co-opera-

would be considerably strength. tion and mutual respect. And it is not this at Davidson.

ened by the existence of a

There are members of both the faculty and admin-

strong non-fraternity social or- istration who have told me (in

ganization on the campus. How- that student ideas and suggestions are, re the most art
ever. I strongly believe that if irresponsible and impractical—that ‘little of the pro-
such an organization is to be gress this college has made recently has been spawned
formed it must receive the guid- within the student body. Might I cite the liberalized
ance and support of the frater- Cut-system, increased library funds, and changes in policy

nity men to be a success.
The IFC and every fraternity trary?
man must realize that this sys-

Davidson Colle
tem of which we are a part does This idea is just

regarding vespers as three good examples to the con-

Be proports to produce “whole men.”
a little sickening to me, simply because

have some definite inherent it seems to imply that th

evils: because these evils exist a machine that produces finished ey eenane four. tears
and because of the dominant of careful moulding, and that it is a machine over which
role fraternities play with re- the raw material has no control. This means that the
spect to social life on this cam- students have very little say-so concerning the means
pus, fraternity men must be of production. And it stinks of paternalism:

willing to go beyond their ab- Education is not a process whereby the un-educated
solute responsibility to the sys- come to a group of teachers and administrators and say,

tem and attempt to understand “Educate me’. Educatio

n is simply (or maybe not-so-

the problems caused by the eys- simply) a coming together of students and teachers and

tem and then work for thelr administrators wh
solution. Only in this way can together.” It is a
we justify or hope to maintain knowledge and
our present position on campus. respect and trust

This is education, This “ ” .
able at Davidson College. is not the “education” avail

Arthur Ross II
Davidson College

© say to one another, “Let us learn
co-operative venture in the pursuit of

truth-founded upon mutual friendship,
