FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1964

SPORTS SCENE |

BY JOHNNY CLARK

Davidsonian Sports Editor

WINNING

It was suggested to me that in my first column I
elaborate on my athletic philosophy so that readers would

know what my general views are on athletics and wheth-|'

er or not they will read the column any more. This
sounded logical enough, but I guess I must be shallow or

something. I really can’t think of anything that I’d call
my athletic philosophy. The most 1 can come up with
are what I consider to be the values of athletics, and. be-
cause they are hardly original, I’ll just relate them
riefly.

The physical and mental values of athletics andj

competition to the participating athlete are pretty much
self-evident. They have been written about by Aristotle,
among numerous others, and I can’t improve on him.
Aristotle didn’t comment on the value of college athlet-
ics to the non-participating student and to the school in
general, and therefore | will.

Pride in Davidson and a feeling of student unity
are elements that few will deny are desirable, and athle-
tics can produce these elements as much as or more than
academics. The quantity of these elements is increased
proportionately to the success of the athletic teams, and
upon the basis of this proportionate increase I base my
part‘ainship to subsidized athletics.

Competing for the sake of competition is fine for
the individual athlete, but it is hard for the spectator to
generate great amounts of enthusiasm for a loser, as is
exemplified by the somewhat less than overflowing
crowds at Richardson Field in the fall. Winning, as much
as a game itself, produces the enthusiasm, support; and
thus the pride.

In a vote by the entire student body at Presbyterian
College, tennis won over football and basketball as the
school’s most popular intercollegiate sport. Why? Be-
cause PC consistently produces one of the best tennis
teams in the nation, and because the football and basket-
ball teams aren’t winners. Basketball is king at Davidson
because the team is a winner, students take most pride
in this team, and its winning unites the students behind
a common object with which they can identify and to
which they can support against common foes.

I favor a mild increase in athletic subsidies to pro-
duce an athletic program that will put Davidson on equal
footing with other conference members in all sports.
Because Davidson has more to offer academically, it can
attract top-notch athletes in all sports.if it provides an
athletic program comparing favorably with those of its
competition. Davidson excels in academics and I see
little reason why it shouldn't excel in athletics if it is to
become the truly superior school which it is trying to be.

I hope that it doesn’t seem I've overstressed win-
ning. For the participant, competing, rather than win-
ning, is more important, although winning is the immed-
iate goal of competing. Winning is more important for
the entire college to reap the benefits of athletics. Fair-
weather support beats apathy.

Also, I don’t mean to be critical of the present athle-
tic program in general. In a large marjority of its phases
I think the athletic program excels. But there are areas
in which the program can and should be improved, and
I would like to discuss these areas individually in later
issues.

A LOSS

I would like to express my condolences to Coach
Dole and to Bill Dole, Jr. on the loss of Mrs. Dole, a
friend to Davidson students and to Davidson athletics.

FOOTBALL

Dr. Tom Scott, Davidson's athletic director, has re-
leased the nine-game football schedule for next fall:

September 26 Mississippi College here
October 3 The Citadel there
October 10 Presbyterian there
October 17 Richmond here
October 24 VMI there
October 31 Furman here
November 7 Lehigh there
November 14 Lafayette here
November 21 Wofford there

I don’t know why only four conference games (The
Citadel, Richmond, VMI, Furman) are scheduled, but it
seems pointless to me to be in a conference and not play
in it. The Southern Conference requires that each mem-
ber play at least four league games, but I can’t see why
it doesn’t require at least six, as does the Atlantic Coast
Conference. Conference standings and championships—
and for that matter, conference affiliation—are some-
what meaningless when member schools play only half
of the other members.

Perhaps a Davidson-West Virginia or a Davidson-
VPI game would be a farce, but so is the fact that these
schools are in the same conference. Anyway, the Wild-
cats should play George Washington, which hasn’t played
Davidson in recent years, and William and Mary, which
just this year was dropped from the Davidson schedule.

At least the Catawba game has been discontinued.
This annual encounter interested neither Davidson nor
Catawba fans, and the attendance at the game in Char-
lotte every year was usually doubled by the high school
game played in the same stadium the night before the
college contest.

AND MORE...

Davidson's soccer team will be eligible to play in the
NCAA small college championship tournament next year.
Thus, the lack of enough major college foes on the sched-
ule won’t prevent, as it did last fall, Coach Fogleman’s
booters from participating in post-season competition.

Coach Stevens’ baseball squad has lost the services
of ace pitcher Paul Briggs for the remainder of the sea-
son, due to elbow trouble discovered after the Florida
trip.

The Davidson-Campbell tennis match rained out
Tuesday is rescheduled for April 20 on the Wildcat
courts.

Coach Fogleman has finally stabilized his tennis
lineup, with Bill Schutt, Dick Hurd, Woody Cleveland,
and Bill Council the top four netters in the order listed.

First baseman Sonny Graves reports that he is lead-
ing the ’Cats in batting with a .500 average (1 for 2).
Says Graves, “I'm the greatest.”

If Lefty signs any Negro basketball players, it won’t
be new to the Southern Conference. West Virginia has
signed two Negro stars for next year’s freshman cage
team.

r ;
E “

basketballers

DRIVEN INDOORS, JEFF FRANK scatters
as he preps for yesterday's match with The Citadel. (Photo by
Smith)

"Cat Nine Surprise Fla.
With 2-3-1 Record

BY FORREST ROLES

Tomorrow afternoon Davidson's rejuvenated base-
ball team travels to Blacksburg, Va., to begin its South-
ern Conference schedule against VPI. A game with S. C.
foe Richmond was rained out last Wednesday. The 'Cats

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Netters Romp Citadel,
‘Meet State Tomorrow

BY ED McFARLAND the highly regarded Citadel
Coach Harry’ Fogle- Bulldogs yesterday in a
man’s tennis team romped showdown possibly fore-
to a surprising 7-2 win over shadowing the outcome of

Hetzel Home From Trials,
says Olympic Talent Great

Tred Hetzel, who has been awing opposing baliplay-
ers all his life, returned from the U.S. Olympic Basket-
ball Trials somewhat awed himself. “The individual talent
there was almost unbelievable, and all through the trials
there were just continuously spectacular plays. It was a
treat just to watch the practice sessions,” reports David-
son’s 6’8” All-American, relaxing after two strenuous
weeks of pressure-packed basketball, March 23-April 4.

Although piaying sporadic counter, . he finished with 14
ball. during the practice ses points, but slumped io 4 tallies
sions ‘at St. John’s Arena in it the third. contest in which he
New York, Hetzel shined often “just played a bad game.”
enough to be selected as one of Playing by Olympic regula-
six alternates for the Olympic tions forced Hetzél to change
team, thus remaining cligibie to, his style some. ‘The fou! lanes
fill in on the twelve man squad Were much wider, 50 instead of
in the event that any of ‘its moving back and forth across
members are unable to make the lane so much; I-had to move
the trip to Tokyo. up and down.”

“All in all, the trials were a
great experience.” reflects Het
zel. “I knew the competition
would be good, but it was better
than 1 thought it would be.
There were the best players
there that I've ever seen. And
jt was a tremendous opportuni
ty to know as individuals, ball-
players who had been just

“As an alternate. I'll still
take part in the practice ses-
sions of the team next Septem-
ber, staying with the squad un-
til it leaves for Japan around
the first of October.”’ reports
Hetzel. The team will practice
in Hawaii until September 22.
when it will return to the main.
land for exhibition games on
the west coast.

names in magazines before.”

Because he will misk the first
month of school next fall, Het-

carry a 5-8 record into conference play.

Virginia Tech's Gobblers re-
turn a solid team from last
year’s conference rdmner ups.
Gone, however, is ace pitcher
Lee Maleur who has always
been. a ‘Cat nemesis. Davidson
will have to face Dan Jenkins
who beat them last year to
sweep the scheduled  double-
header. Coach Tom Stevens
would not commit himself to a
s(arting pitcher.

Coach Stevens has finally
committed himself to a ‘Cat
starting lineup. After several
weeks of futile juggling, he has
settled on the combination of
Rick Smyre, first base: Jim
Hyder. second base: Steve Hee-
kard. shoristop: Tom Whitley,
third base: Don Davidson. left
field: Dick Snyder, centerfield:
Charlie Marcon; right field: and
either Earl Cole or Eddie Ear).
catching. This combination
clicked for the ‘Cats’ only wins
on their southern trip in the
last two games. .

The 2-4-1 record which the
‘Cats had for their Southern
trip was nothing to be ashamed
of as the ‘Cats met top flight
competition. They Jost a single
game to Georgia Southern (the
best team the ‘Cats played).
split two games with Duke (the
worst team they played). and
beat Rollins College once and
played them to an 11!-inning tie.

The last six.of these games
were played in the annual Rol-
lins Invitational Tournament

Trackstfers Travel
To Greenville Meet

BY DON TYLER

Davidson's cindermen will
participate in the Piedmont
News Relays in Greenville to.
morrow afternoon in one of the
big tests of the year for Coach
Heath Whittle’s squad.

The relays will be rather un
usual in that both the freshman
and varsity teams will be par-
ticipating. Both groups appear
to be coming along rather well
this year and Coach Whittle
hopes to make a good showing.

So far, Alan Turner has been
the big man for the varsity and
Whittle is hoping he will come
through in the 100-yard dash
tomorrow. The relays seem al-
so to offer hope: four relays—
the 880-yard relay, the distance
medley relay, the 440-yard re-
lay, and the sprint medley relay
—will be run.

The 880 relay team will con-
sist of Turner, Star Evins, Steve
Gill, and Tom Watson or David
Brown. The distance medley
team members are Joel Morri-
sett on the 440, Denny Phillips
on the 880, Tommy Heffner on
the % mile and John Barrow on
the mile.

Evins, Gill, Turner, and
Brown or Tommy Worrall will
run in the 440 relay. In the
sprint medley Turner, will pace
the first 220 yards and Evins
the second, Gill will run the 440,
and Phillips the 880.

held at Rollins College in Win
ter Park, Fla. The ‘Cats finish-
ed third in this tournament be-
hind winner Colby College of
Maine. a team which defeated
the ‘Cats 40 and 14 2, and Rol
lins, who fell to Davidson 98
and played a tie game. In last
place was Duke, holding a split
with the ‘Cats.

Outstanding for Davidson in
the tournament were pitchers
Ear) Cole and Barry Teague,
both of whom pitched well
enough to win two games in-
stead of one as they did. Tom
Whitley. Rick Smyre, and Don

Davidson provided most of the

offensive power.

Africa and the Pacific,

ures ‘necessary to foreign

_

JOBS ABROAD

STUDENTS & TEACHERS

Largest NEW directory. Lists hundreds of perman-
ent career opportunities in Europe, South America,

Totals 50 countries. Gives spec’fic addresses and
names prospective U.S. employers
subsidiaries. Exceptionally high pay, free travel,
etc. In addition, enclosed vital guide and proced-

guaranteed. Send two dollars to Jobs Abroad Di-
rectory—P. O. Box 13593—Phoenix, Arizona.

zel wil audit three courses at
summer school and then take
the same coatses first semes-
ter. being allowed by the exe

cutive committee to take only wes

nine hours credit.

Hetzel scored 15 points jn a
pre trial contest, the East-West
game in Lexington. Kentucky.
“This probably had a.lot to do
with my making alternate,”
comments -the big .one. noting
his below par performances in
the first and third games of the
trials’ 96 player tournament.

Scoring only four points in
the first game, Hetzel's playing
time was cut short by early
fouls, Hitting on six. of eight
field goals in the second en-

———

for MALE or FEMALE.

with foreign

employment. Satisfaction

Singing goes better refreshed.
And Coca-Cola — with that special zing
but never too sweet —
refreshes best.

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord

Concord, North Carolina

FRED HETZEL RELAXES IN THE RACK
while reminiscing about 2 weeks, of strennous

the Southern Conference
meet here next month, in
which Citadel and George
Washington had been the
co-favorites.

. Tomorrow, the ‘Cats take on
a weak squad of netters from
North Carolina State in a match
in which Fogleman feels that
‘we should come out on top.”

Bill Poore won the number
one singles for the Cadets’ only
Singles victory by defeating Bill
Schutt 63 and 75. Davidson's
Dick Hurd beat Perry Earle 9-7
and 63: Woody Cleveland top
ped Ray Morgan 4-6, 8.6, 7-5:
Bill Counctl won over Jon Ten.
nant 2-6, 6-2. 62: Frank Bum
gardner won 75, .9-7 over Jerry
Tollison, and.John-Ariail, Dav
idson’s captain, took Sandy
Miller 6-4, 62.

In. bringing its season record
to 83. Davidson took two of
three dotibles maiches to com-

plete the devestation of last
year's conference runners up
with the Shutt Council and

Cleveland-Hurd duos winning.
and the Baumgardner Ariail
pair dropping a 6-4, 6-4 decision.

Yesterday's: win was the
‘Cats’ first match since last
week's Florida trip, which in-
cluded the Rollins Invitational

Round Robin Tournament at:
Winter Park. Davidson _ split
four games in the tourney

against teams Fogleman calls
“the best teams we've seen this
year.”

PAGE THREE

Although winning 8-1 over
Florida Southern and 6-3 over.
Hope, Fogleman was most.
pleased in a 6-3 loss to Rollins,
Says -the Davidson mentor,
‘We'll be lucky to play as well
again all yeat as we did versus
Rollins.” °°

Also falling to Columbia. 2-7,
at Winter Park. the team put
down Stetson’s Hatters 51%4-31%4
at Deland and “returned from
the trip with a lot more. confi-
dence" according to Fogleman.
Against Stetson, Cleveland lost
a love set to a female member
of the Stetson team. Denise
Wall, but won the match 6-3,
0-6, 6-4.

‘Group Nominates
Lefty For Award

Basketball coach Lefty Drie-
sell is one of five nominees
named yesterday by the Char
lotte Sportman’s Club as candi-
dates for Charlotte's Sportsman
of the Year. The winner will be
selected by the board of direc-
tors and announced Tuesday
night at a meeting at the Myers
Park Country Club.

Other nominees for the award
honoring the person who has
contributed the most to the
Charlotte sports. picture during
the past yéar are Paul Amen.
John Belk, Cliff Turner and
Jack Wood.

enamine fe

—|

Is Our Finest

Spring Selection

SLACKS
by Corbin, Jefferson, & Levi

HALVE SLEEVE DRESS SHIRTS
by Gant & Rush Wilson,

WALK SHORTS
by Jefferson, & Levi

SCOTCH GRAIN. LOAFERS
by Frank Bros.

SPORT COATS & SUITS
by Gordon-Ford, Linett & Others

basketball in the tryouts for the U.S. Olympic -
team. (Photo by Smith)

Spring Has Arrived

At

Rush Wilson Ltd
Awaiting
Your
Inspection

COME IN AND MAKE AN EARLY SELECTION

Kush Wilson, Ltd.

