The Bavidsonian

ME NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1964

(Letters to *he editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Why?

Rumors about the Faculty’s Tues-
day action quickly weaved their dis-
torted way along the campus grape-
vine. And with each repetition came
the misunderstanding that accompan-
ies any rumor. ;

In order for the faculty action
and its implications to be understood,
one must look further. 7

Study leading to the action was
initiated at the request of three con-
cerned student leaders. By discern~
ing the motivation of the student rep-
resentatives as expressed in a Novem-
ber 10 statement to the faculty, we
can best understand the bases on
which the change has been made:

“In recent years, we have been
cognizant of an increasing amount of
drinking on campus. A recent poll
of a large portion of the student body
apparently confirms our suspicions.

ere is definitely an upward trend in
the number of students who drink,
and, consequently, of those who bring
alcoholic beverages onto the campus.

“At the present, the regulations
make no distinction between storing a
bottle of liquor in the trunk of an
automobile and hosting a cocktail par-
ty in a dormitory. Consequently,
many students are taking liquor to
their rooms: ‘The penalty is just as
severe there as anywhere else.’

Greek Evaluation

The Fraternity Evaluation Com-
mittee is rolling. Last night Jack-
son’s committee defined its aim and
stepped into the ring to face the mam-
moth task.

Are fraternities serving the needs
of Davidson College and its students;
and, are there specific steps that could
be taken to better serve these needs?
The committee’s goal is to ferret out
the answer to this broad question.

The initial approach will be to
determine the shortcomings of the
current system in terms of the indiv-
idual student’s needs and in light of
Davidson's goals.

The answer will come from indivi-
duals within the community — stud-
ents, faculty, administration. Pro-
gress toward the answer will depend
on the willingness of everyone con-
nected with the Davidson situation to
respond vitally to a vital inquiry.

Questionnaires are being drafted
to extend the inquiry into areas re-
lated to but outside the current Dav-
idson. Returns from these polls

“With ‘off-campus’ trunks on the
one hand and a strictly enforced
dormitory prohibition on the other,
only a reckless few would risk taking
liquor into the dorms.

“On the surface we are proposing
a loosening of the present regulations.
But, considered in its entirety, we feel
that affirmative action by the faculty
on our proposal would lead to an ac-
tual curtailment of drinking on camp-
us.”

Students must realize that Facul-
ty action “will prevail so long as the
Student Council and Honor Court
agree to support and actually do en-
force” the Student Body alcohol regu-
lations. If, as expected, the students
act affirmatively on a constitutional
amendment which will be proposed in
assembly immediately after Christ-
mas, the Council and Court when en-
forcing the “possession” provision of
the Student Body alcohol regulations
will not have jurisdiction over the
trunks of automobiles.

If the proposed amendment passes
with the necessary two-thirds major-
ity, the student will have no excuse
for continuing to bring alcoholic bev-
erages into the dormitories. Vigorous
enforcement and strict penalties will
face the reckless few who persist in
violating the regulations.

should provide perspective to the in-
vestigation.

But the problem is ours, and the
real meat for the committee’s consid-
eration and digestion must be home-
grown and dynamically involved in
today’s Davidson.

Students, faculty and members of
the administration will be urged to
contribute to the pool of information
and opinion which the committee will
evaluate. Everyone concerned is
openly invited to consider the issue.
The committee requests that sincere
concern be expressed in the form of
a 500-word opinion, to be submitted
to the committee by anyone who
cares. The statements will be exam-
ined, and the committee will interview
representative voices on all sides with-
in a basic framework of questions.

The committee — established for
our benefit — is soliciting our active
concern. We owe them an opinion.

University In Turmoil

Clark Kerr’s words of last year
must be ringing in his ears today.
Speaking of the develo ment of the
university into the “multiversity,” he
said: “There are more elements to
be concilated; fewer in a position to
be led.”

Dr. Kerr is a long acknowledged
expert in arbitration between indus-
try and labor. But this fall he has
been unable to heal the breaches
among administration, faculty, and
students at the multiversity he heads,
the University of California. The
turmoil on its campus says something
not only about the present student
generation but about the learning
conditions with which they are con-
fronted in the multiversity, as Dr.
Kerr describes it:

“As a new type of institution, it
is not really private and not really
public; it is neither entirely of the
world nor entirely apart from it.”

The tangled issues at Berkeley in-
volve how far students should be per-
mitted to become “of the world” in
political activities while they are vol-
untary members of an academic com-
munity. We understand how stud-
ents might idealistically — or calcul-
atingly — ask for such freedom as
part of the right of free speech. But
the constitutional test dees not rea-
sonably apply in these circumstances.

The United States National Stud-
ent Association comes closer to a con-
temporary solution of the multiver-
sity private-public question when it
suggests that “the state. not the uni-
versity, should determine whether off-
campus action planned by students is
unlawful; the university should ‘only
regulate the orderly functioning of
campus affairs. and not place stud-
ents in a position of double jeopardy.”

Associate Editors _. — Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg

Rick von Unwerth
Tim Kimrey

John Todd

Mike Harrington
Asst. Managing Editor —.. John Bailey
News Editor ........ Rufus Adair

Managing Editors

Bob Strauser
Johnny Clark
Bill Briggs
Malcotm Lane

Feature Editor _...._
Snorts Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Cireulation Manager

But. unless the already weakening
concept of the university as a com-
munity is to break down completely.
we feel that students should feel a
responsibility to their university even
when off campus, observing appropri-
ate regulations for the health of that
community. When they step off the
campus they do not suddenly cease
to be members of the group they have
chosen to join.

Americans deplored the earlier
“silent” generation, the uncommitted
young people who. busied themselves
about their own concerns. The stud-
ent demonstrations at Berkeley —
like those at Saigon and points east
and west — have had _ irresponsible
elements within them. But they have
also shown evidence of student inter-
est in causes beyond themselves. It
would be ironic to stifle a turn away
from selfish, uncommitted silence.

Somehow the necessary enforce-
ment of discipline should not have
the appearance of — or, in fact, be —
a suppression of protest out of keep-
ing with its magnitude. As Dr. Kerr
recognized when police dragged a
student leader away from a micro-
phone, “There is no question this
episode makes — at least immediate-
ly — these efforts (to settle the dis-
pute) less effective. . .”

As another university president,
Nathan Pusey of Harvard, said at
President Kerr's inauguration a few
years ago, “warmth, sanity, and vigor
can come into scholarship from close
contact with the activities and aspira-
tions of daily life.” We need to under-
stand Dr. Kerr, as well as his students,
in their painful efforts to define and
rightly use this contact in the day of
the multiversity.

—The Christian Science Monitor

Copy Zditor.... . Don Davis
Asst. Copy Editors —-—-—- Bill Aitkes

Calvin Zon

Photographers Sam Smith
Tom Thel

Erskine Sproul

Cartoonists . Jack Lingle

Rufus Hallmark

Lou Hill
Asst. Business Mgr. -- Irvine Welling
Advertising Mgr. ------ Bob Cameron

Contributors this week: Dick Spencer, Ted Glusman, Heyward Carter. Charles
Vick. M. L. Cannon, Louis Lesesne. Harry Carr,.Mike Bates. Billy Farr, Bob
Holladay, Jim Morawetz, Paul Monk, Ed Maxwell: Doug Maxwell Tim Rother-
mel, David Coffee. Bob Vance, Frank Fleming. Bob Howard, Jamie Bryant.
Steve Brown, Dan Tyler, Larry Norfleet. Sam Boyte, Mike Mooty. Tom Cook,

and Pau! Marion.

Entered as Secona Class Matter af the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina,
under Act of March 3, 1879.

Through The Sand Slightly ...

ADMINISTRATION AND
INDEPENDENT CRITICISM OF
FRATERNITIES |,

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Martin Takes Aim Again
At ‘Defenseless Greeks’

Dear Editor,

It. is a popular practice of
Davidson students to castigate
the trustees and the administra-
tion. Their seeming slothfulness
in the face of what we see are
pressing needs makes them we
think. fair game for our barbs.

There is a great discrepancy
in our conception of these two
groups and our conception of
ourselves, the former coming in
a very poor second. We take
pride in our ability to get right
to the heart of an issue, weigh:
ing and testing, rejecting the
bad and retaining the good.

In most cases, this is pre-
cisely what we would do if only
it were in our power—or So we
say. We would eliminate re-
quired church service. We would
repeal the faculty oath. We
would enlarge the library and
add a new wing to the gym.
Very clearly. we are an ex-
tremely progressive, forward-
lookng lot. Our very nature, our
quick minds, our youth make us
s0.

“METTERNICHS”

There is one issue, however,
more important to the future of
Davidson College than any so
far discussed. But when it
comes to even talking about
measures to eliminate the in-
equities, the exclusiveness, the
unfairness, the snobbishness. the
childishness. and the basic false-.
ness of the present social sys-
tem at Davidson, the attitude
of most students would, by com-
parison. make Prince Metter-
nich look like a flaming, wild-
eyed liberal.

I am tired of being agreed
with. My first letter to THE
DAVIDSONIAN was as vicious
an attack on the fraternity sys-
tem as I could, in good taste,
formulate at that time. Yet all
I have received from the fra-
ternity men is either agreement
or complacent silence. Won't
someone come and punch me
in the nose, at least.

It would be easiesr for me
to fight that than the repeated
statement, “You're right about
our present system. but...”
Then what follows is a brief sort
which can be summarized: “the
force of inertia is a brief re-
tort which can be summarized:
the force of inertia around here
is greater than the force of argu-
ment.”

In all fairness. there is more
to the fraternity argument than
that. Since not one of their repre-
sentatives has yet come forth
to articulate it, I will try to do
so, in so far as I understand it.
It goes something like this:

ARGUMENT
“The position of Davidson is
unique. It is the only liberal
arts school of a thousand men
supported by the Presbyterian

Church located twenty miles

from Charlotte and six miles

from Mooresville. Because its
circumstances are unique, it
must have a unique caste sys-
tem. Its students must be
given thirteen or fourteen fool-

ish labels. It must have also
a sizeable number of outcasts.
It must have juvenile pledge
training. It must have artifi-
cial allegiances. They must be
affiliated with national centers
of conceit and snobbishness
so as to have a source for their
own. If. the education process
suffers,.then it must suffer. If
the Davidson man is narrowed
rather than broadened, then
he must be narrowed. If
prejudices are increased, it is,
you see, because they must be.
If individuality is stifled. then
it must be stifled. And if our
full potential for intellectual
growth is not realized, then it
must not be realized.’” All this
because we are unique.

SAYING WHAT?

Now just what are the fra-
ternity men, with their great
numerical advantage. trying to
say? Rick Finch, a recent pro-
duct of the Davidson fraternity
system, wandered around the
point in his letter to THE
DAVIDSONIAN but wound up
attacking precisely what he was
trying to defend. As he so suc-
cinctly stated. the fraternities
are an important part of a per-
son's life here primarily be-
cause of their function as a so-
cial outlet ‘in an environment
which would be out of the ques-
tion without it.”

What he has actually said is
that we now have twenty-seven
per cent of our student body go-
ing to college in an environment
that is ‘‘out of the question.”

If we knew exactly what he
meant by “out of the question,”
we could get more out of his
letter; but I think we can safe-
ly assume that if Rick himself
had not passed safely under the
blackball, if the law of the
jungle had ruled against him,
he would have had the good
sense to beat a hot trail out of
here at his earliest convenience.

OTHER ASSERTIONS

Rick also makes some other
assertions which would not mer-
it comment except that he is a
Davidson alumnus and one to
whom I think many, including
myself, would point with pride.
One is that those rejected are
not outcasts. In the first place,
I can’t think of a better defi-
nition for outcast without get-
ting into Hindu religion. Sec-
ondly, it is directly contrary to

#the representative remark I
heard from one underclass in-
dependent, “‘Now I know ‘how
Negroes in this country must
feel.”

I expect any time for a frater-
nity man to say ‘“‘some of my
best friends are independents.”
And it wouldn't be at all sur-
prising or ‘inapplicable for
someone to venture, ‘‘They’re
all right. I just wouldn’t want
my sister to date one.”

Yes. Mr. Finch, the plight
of the independent at Davidson
is even more ‘‘out of the ques-
tion” than you imagined.

His mistake 1s in assuming
that our present pattern of ex-
istence is the only one possible
if we are to continue to have
any social life at all. This. I
think, is a fallacy popularly in-
duiged in by the student body.

A SOCIAL EXPEDIENT

What we really need is a s0-
cial expedient, not a pattern of
culture that dominates our lives.
We need to de-emphasize fra-
ternities, but that will admit-
tedly be quite difficult as long
as the present basic set-up re-

‘mains.

We could require pledges to
raise their hands. and repeat
“My fraternity is an expedient’
one hundred times instead of
having them learn songs and
“brothers” names. That would
be a step in the right direction
the same as delayed rush or
100%. bidding: but however we
start, we must end by elimina-
ting fraternities altogether be-
fore our social ills are done
away with completely.

T suggest that instead of the
IFC discussing the matter, we
form a committee composed of
student. faculty, administra-
jtion, and alumni representa-
tives whose purpose will be to
offer a genuine alternative to
the nationally sinking ship of
fraternities. Surely there is an
alternative which would be, at
the same time. socially accept-
able to the students and con-
sistent with the goals of David-
son College. With the combined
resources of; Davidson men both
past and present put to the task,
unless the public image of the
“Davidson man” is one gigantic
hoax. we could not fail to discov-
er that alternative.

Gary Martin
Davidson College

THE MIDDLE OF THE ROAD

If We Could
Only Know...

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Managing Edltor

I don’t think there has ever been or that there will
ever be a situation in human affairs where all right
and truth and justice reposed in one person or one side
of an issue and all guilt on the other — by any set of
standards. There is more than one side to every issue,
even to the discussion on fraternities at Davidson Col-
lege.

And now it is time for someone to comment on the
Greek letter fraternity system — not as an aristocrat
in shining armor setting forth to disperse the rabble, nor
as the glistening Nordic hero begging someone to come
out and fight — but since there are many points by
many a protagonist worth consideration—as a calm and
tolerant spokesman. More dialogue is needed and fewer
local Voltaires crying “Crush the infamous thing!”

Having satisfied that rhetorical outburst, I want to
make a superficial analysis of a few points now under
discussion.

It is generally popular to attack the Greek letter
fraternity system as being either incompatible with the
true principles of Christianity or inconsistent with the ex-
pressed principles of Davidson College. Both these are
risky generalizations, based on personal bias alone, I
thin

To say that the Greek letter fraternity system is in-
compatible with the principles of Christianity is to say
it violates either the love ethic or the principle of equity
in Christianity.

Being is problematic. I must make a start at meet-
ing my problems. It is neither desirable nor practical
for me to start by including everybody in my circle of
friends — being only a man, this is impossible for me.
Yet I must start from somewhere; hence I select a small

roup of friends. In order to select 1 must reject. Here
is the origin of the fraternity. It is neither possible nor
practical for me to adhere to the love ethic in toto...

Society has this tension in itself between the love
ethic and practical necessity. At worst Greek letter fra-
ternities only reflect a problematic society. =

Charging that since fraternities practice discrimina-
tion they violate the principle of equity, is racticing a
subtle equivocation on the word “equal.” uffice it to
say that equal rights of existence do not imply equal
means of existence — or that just because you and |
are human does not mean that you.have a right to my
property. Specifically, this means there is no inherent
right to join or to be asked to join any ‘fraternity. nor is
there an inherent right to deny to all what cannot be
enjoyed by all.

To say that Greek letter fraternities are inconsist-
ent with the College purpose of “creating the whole man”
is to say that the fraternities interfere with this purpose.
One form of this argument is the contention that fra-
ternities promote apathy among their members.

One of the problems of being expresses itself in the
need for social acceptance; this need seems to be in-
trinsic in every healthy human being. Fulfillment of this
need takes many forms: for some it is being a part of a
fraternity, for some it is attacking fraternities — both
these activities can fulfill a social need in the human
organism.

Some needs for social acceptance are much stronger
than others — those persons with lower need levels will
find satiation much quicker than will those with higher
need levels. That so many men are satisfied merely
with being members of a college fraternity for awhile
is similar to the satisfaction found by men active in the
Union — both these actions can fulfill a need.

That many fraternity men and independents are
apathetic to someone's standard of valuation is not a re-
flection upon them as Greeks or GDI’s, but a comment
upon their individual capacities to be motivated.

What this amounts to saying is this: at a school like
Davidson those men who are going to want to take .an
active part in campus activities are going to do so —
with or without a fraternity. Look at the leaders in
campus activities over the years and compare the ratio
of fraternity men to independents.

I do not mean to suggest that a man has a right to
a position because of his status, but I do state that those
wanting to be active in campus affairs have been active.
And the Greeks have a far better record than do the
independents, if you use this factor as a yardstick. It
seems to me that there are far better methods to eval-
uate a person and an organization than a blanket charge
of apathy. ;

Recently there has been a rise in the inde endent
participation in campus positions. This is desirable, but
from this it is difficult to conclude that being in a fra-
ternity is “‘bad.” Nor is it legitimate to conclude that be- |
cause the vast majority of Davidson’s most successful
alumni have been fraternity men that it is “bad” to be an
independent.

The problem of rejection is inevitable — it doesn’t
stop at the fraternity houses. To select one must in-
exorably reject and often be rejected. To live in society
is to be constantly exposed to this possibility, it seems

Oo me.

' Yet the most important point here is that neither
acceptance nor rejection has any intrinsic value in itself
—where these situations get their meaning is from the
individual response. This existence being problematic,
what is important is the individual response to the prob-
lem. Often the greater the feeling of rejection the more
a man will work to make himself accepted in some man-
ner and often the individual will refuse to face the
problem.

At any rate the focal point of the problem of re-
jection is in the individual himself — and not in the
fraternity system. Elimination of fraternities is by no
means elimination of rejection. Look to yourself, O
Ishamel. tea th ti

ranted these are practical aspects of the fraterni
system that need changing or modification. But to peek
at the Greek letter fraternities are incompatible with
the principles of Christianity and the purposes of David-
son College, I think, is to ignore a considerable mass of
logic and empirical data to the contrary.

ty johuny hart

