PAGE FOUR

& THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1964

——_

King Goes To Asia
For Peace Corps

Bob King. a former Davidson
pre med student. has begun a
two year assignment as a Peace
Corps: Volunteer in Thailand.

A native of Durham, King was
one of 4 volunteers to leave for
the Southeast Asian country on
Jan. 2. This group will join Thai
co-workers and other Peace
Corpsmen in initiating commun.

lity and. individual programs
geared to the solutions of village
problems.

A member of the class of 1964,
King transferred to Davidson
from Hampden-Syndey at the
end of his freshman year. While
at Davidson he was a member

‘of Alpha Tau Omega. on the
baseball team; and active in the
Westminster Fellowship and the
International Relations Club.

The Thailand project will in-
volve developing practical solu-
tions to problems of education,
sanitation, recreation and health.
The volunteers will also work on
water availability and usage.
garden and field crop produc-
tion, poultry and swine hus-
bandry, feeder roads and _ vil-
lage industries.

For three months, King and
the other new volunteers trained
in the Thai language, in the his-
tory. customs and traditions of
this Eastern country, and in
American history and_institu-
tions.

4

Oe

STUDYING A SLIDE — Davidson Assistant
Professor of Chemistry J. G. Martin holds a
stide to the tight as Dr. Henry Eyring, dean of
the University of Utah graduate school, looks
on. DOr. Eyring was on campus Tuesday for
two chemistry class fectures on “Theory of

National Committees
Add Edmunds White

Liquids’ and on “Modern Theory of Optical
Rotation.” The dean is a past president of the
American Chemical Society and is president-
elect of the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science. (Staff Photo by Smith)

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for
students after vespers this Sunday night:

H. Edmunds White, associate director of admissions|{ Bryan Jackson Pierce
and director of financial aid, has been appointed recently || Campbell Johnston Plott
to national committees in these two areas. Miss Cumming McGeachy Rhodes
The first appointment is to the White. the only southerner on{{ Hight Marrotte Schenck
Advisory Board of the College this board.: will serve for a|{ Houchens Minter Smith
Admissions Center in Evanston, tenure of three years. Hunt

Il., which decides policy ques- _In the field of financial aid he
tions for the center, the coun- will serve on the Advisory Com-
try’s largest and oldest clearing mittee on National Student Fi-
house for college applicants. nancial Aid Problems of the Col-
| lege Scholarship Service. located
in New York City. The Service.
established in 1954 by the Col

lege. Entrance Examination
Board. not only systematizes col-
leges' financial aid methods, but
also concerns itself on a nation-| Roger Landrum. a former
al scale with students’ problems! Peace Corps volunteer in Ni-

Peace Corps Officer Here
Tuesday For ChapelSpeech

with Landrum’'s visit, there will
be a special Peace Corps display
in the Union.

Pledges’ Sigh Relief:
’'64 Greek Week Is Over

BY ALLEN WEBS

Some 200 fraternity
pledges signed Wednesday
after the ordeal of Greek
Week. The hectic episode,
which began earlier than
usual because of conflicts
with Midwinters and the
Duke game, filled the cam-
pus with many unusual
events, sights and sounds.

The week's activities began a
week ago Wednesday night with
the  Interfraternity
Pledge Banquet. Tom Covington,
a Davidson graduate and as-
sistant director of student affairs
at N. C. State College, discussed
the priority of fraternity aims
before the banquet group.

The Pledge Class Sing on Fri-
day night and various service
projects accomplished on Sat-
urday and Monday highlighted
the events of the week.

At the Sing. replacing Skit
Night for the first time, each
pledge class sang a fraternity
standard and another song of
their own creation.

First place went to the Sig
Eps, who sang “All Through
the Night’ and then asked in
their original song, ‘What will
you do with an underachiever
early in the morning... 2?”

Sigma Chi pledges took run-
ner-up position with ‘Hail, Hail
to Sigma Chi" and a song about
the Davidson graduate who is
“socially a mess.'’ The ATO's
and Betas tied for third place.

The pledges’ participation in
service. projects indicates that
the week was not devoted entire-
ly to fun, Some of the work done
by the groups is as follows:

ATO—painted building for

Council &.

o

—

tae ail

ed the "

oe

TRIALS AND TRIBULATIONS OF GREEK WEEK

Pledge Simon Henson eats with a “special” spoon

for the Blind: Beta—built toy
boxes for North Carolina Ortho-
pedic Hospital at Gastonia; KA
—general repairs to War Me-
morial Building in Mooresville:
Kappa Sig—repairs at the
YMCA Fresh Air Camp: Pika—
cleaned area behind The Hub:
and Pi Kapp—painted jail cells
in Mooresville.

Others included: Sigma Chi
—general repairs at Nevins
Vocational Training School;
Sigma Nu—painted street
markers in Cornelius and plac-
ed a metal plaque on each;
SAE—painted Boy Scout hut
in Mooresville; Sig Ep—clean-
ed Alexander Home for Chil-
dren in Charlotte; Phi Deit—
generat repairs at Center
Presbyterian Church; and Phi
Gam—cleared college property
on Lake Norman.

The campus awoke each morn-

pledge classes marched to
breakfast. Once inside the fra-
ternity houses, the pledges were
kept busy by the active brother-
hood who could always find
something for them to do.

Fraternity house trophies and
enthusiasm will be shown for
the week as did the shoes and
cars of the actives. Numerous
other chores were promptly at-
tended to by the pledges.

Conspicuous attire also char-
acterized the week. For instance,
the KA’s wore bright Confeder-
ate flags on the backs of their
shirts. The Sig Eps wore yellow
pith helmets. The brightly let-
tered shirts of the Pikas and
the strange snake shirts of the
Sigma Nus_ livened campus
color.

Scavenger hunts were the
order for some pledges while

Mecklenburg County Association ing to cadence counts as many others had different events.

(Staff Photo by Smith)

After the many activities, the
weary pledgés certainly did
not complain when Greek
Week ended at 10 p.m. Tues-
day.

Rick von Unwerth. chairman
of the IFC Greek Week Com-
mittee, was unable to observe
much of the week. because he
was in the infirmary. However,
he did note that pledge class
spirit was not as high as it has
been in the past. He feels greater
enthusiasm wil be shown for
the Pledge Class Sing after its
newness wears off.

Bob Young, fraternity liaison
officer, does not like the inter-
ruption that the weekend provid-
ed, although Sunday was an op-
portunity for pledges to study
and rest. He believes the Sing |
will be continued next year.

In compliance with regula-
tions, all formal initiations will
be completed by Feb. 16.

in financial aid. geria currently serving as a re-
It is within this latter sphere|cruiting officer for the Corps,
that White will work, dealing, will speak in chapel this Tues-
with such problems as aid to the} day, Feb. 11.
underprivileged. Landrum will -also be in the
White and Harriet Hudson of/ yMCA office for- consultation
Randolph-Macon Woman's Col-! Tuesday afternoon and Wednes-
oe of next week.
2 The Peace Corpsman received
i. BA with honors from Albion
College in Michigan and ‘his MA
from Bowling Green State Uni-
versity in Ohio. He had complet-
ed one year of work on a PhD in
English at Michigan State Uni-
versity when he became one of
the first Peace Corps volunteers.
Eventually, Landrum intends to
complete his doctorate and take
up a career in college teaching.
Landrum joined the Corps in
1960, and was trained in African

Working at 2 resort in Germany.

WORK

IN EUROPE

Every registered student can
get a job in Europe and receive
a travel grant. Among thou-
sands of jobs available are re-
sort, sales, lifeguard and office
work, No experience is neces-
sary and wages range to $400
monthly. For a complete pros-
pectus, travel grant and job
application returned airmail,
send $1 to Dept..J, American
Student Information Service, |
22 Ave. de la Liberte. Luxem-
bourg City, Grand Duchy of
Luxembourg. |

studies for two months at Michi-
gan State. He was then assigned,
to the newly formed University j
of Nigeria where he taught Eng-
lish composition, English litera-
ture and modern African litera-
ture for two years.

Will Terry, who has arranged
this visit, suggests‘that any who
want to make an appointment to
see Landrum at a specific hour
during his visit should make ar-
rangements now. In conjunction

\

H. EDMUNDS WHITE

lege are the only Southerners on
the twelve-“‘man"’ committee
headed by Dean John U. Monro
who is known for his achieve-
ments and his liberal influence
in the field of education as dean
at Harvard.

Security is
giving your Valentine
the brand-new

PEANUTS ©

cartoon book

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

RIGHT
BEHIND
YOU,
CHARLIE
BROWN

Now Bus Station and
Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen fore...

PIZZA

Chas M. Schulz
Only *1 ees
Melt, Riehart and Winstea, lac.

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

A career
or
exceptional
men

. Some notes about you, about
us, and the advertising business

About you. If you are the man we seek, you have an
insatiable curiosity about people and the world around you.

You’re alert and responsive to new ideas, new ways of doing
things. You like to take on new problems... you see them as
opportunities.

You dig deep into the why of things. And the best answers
you can come up with today are never good enough for you
tomorrow.

You’re an individualist. Yet you thrive on team spirit.

You have conviction about freedom of choice, consistent
with the rights of others.

You're the kind of man who could be successful in business
for himself, but you see the greater challenge implicit in to-
day’s major enterprises.

About us. The J. Walter Thompson Company was formed
100 years ago and has long been one of the world’s largest
advertising firms. Its stock is owned by more than five hun-
dred active staff members.

We help over 500 companies in the United States and
abroad sell thousands of products and services to hundreds of
millions of people. Last year alone, we were responsible for
the advertising investment of close to a half-billion dollars.

There are 6,900 people working with Thompson around the
world. Their backgrounds range far and wide. And so do their
-assignments, which include writing, art, broadcasting, market
research, media buying, international business, marketing
and merchandising, accounting, music, styling, the theatre,
and the social sciences.

In our experience, superior individuals from every graduate and
undergraduate educational discipline find successful careers
in a major agency such as the Thompson Company. Staff
members in our New York Office alone represent nearly three
hundred colleges and universities here and abroad.

Your career with us. You may be surprised to learn
that while an advertising company must have artistically cre-
ative people, it depends just as much on people who are imagi-
native and inventive in other ways.

Our business is selling. Communicating through the written
and spoken word is how we sell. You must possess the ability
to speak and write well so your ideas may be shared and
understood.

We are looking for the kind of men who wish and are able to
assume substantial responsibility early in their business lives.
Tosuch men we offer a remarkable chance to grow and develop
~—one seldom found in any firm.

Previous advertising experience is not required. Basically,
our interest is in the nature of a person rather than in his
specialized knowledge and abilities.

We offer you no standard starting salary, no cut-and-dried
training program. Beginning salaries are individually con-
sidered and compare favorably to those of other national firms.
We help you tailor your own development program, based on
your interests, your abilities, your goals. Your program will
differ from other men’s programs just as you differ from
other men.

When you join us you will work side by side with experi-
enced advertising men. Your growth will be based on your own.
initiative. your own development. There are no age or senior-
ity requirements to limit the responsibility you can earn.

We encourage you to follow your curiosity into all phases of
advertising, because we want you to become a well-rounded
practitioner as rapidly as possible. Experienced advertising
men are eager to coach you individually in your efforts to
develop your capabilities. Additionally, you are free to delve
into every nook and cranny of advertising through our
annual series of professional seminars, workshops and classes.
You learn from men who are experts in their fields.

About men who join us. A remarkable number of
college men who have joined us in the past decade have re-
mained with us and are enjoying varied, exciting careers.

Because of our emphasis on early growth, relatively young
men commonly handle major responsibilities in many phases
of our business—both in this country and abroad.

All initial assignments are in New York City or Chicago,
but we have many other offices in the United States and
throughout the world; and if you are interested, you may
request a transfer later on.

If you wish to be a candidate, you must graduate in 1964 and
be able to join us by June of 1965. You may obtain further in-
formation at the placement office. Please check there regard-
ing the possibility of a personal interview. We shall be on
campus February 17.

J. Walter Thompson Company

NewYork, Chicago. Detroit.San Francisco, Loa Angeles, Hollywood. Washington,
D. C., Miami, Montreal. Toronto, Mexico City, San Juan, Buenos Aires, Monte-
video, SAo Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Porto Alegre, Recife, Belo Horizonte, Santiago
(Chile), Lima, London, Paris, Antwerp, Amsterdam, Frankfurt. Milan, Vienna,
Johannesburg. Cape Town, Durban, Port Elizabeth, Salisbury (Southern
Rhodesia), Bombay, Calcutta, New Delhi, Madras, Karachi, Colombo (Ceylon),
Sydney, Melbourne, Tokyo, Osaka, Manila.

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
