FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1964

Tt GI BB

Rhy

GREG GATES’ EXPRESSION reveals an
apparent distaste for practice as he warms up
for tomorrow’s Davidson Relays. High hurdler

Gates and company will try to defend David-
son’s perennial position as winner of the re-
lays. (Photo by Smith)

CAT TALES |e

The Davidson golf team dem-
onstrated its proficiency at the
gentleman’s game Tuesday aft-

y;ernoon by whipping Charlotte
College 24% to 11% at. the Gas.
ton Country Club in Gastonia.

Since Charlotte College has no
eligibility rules at the present
time and seems to attract many
Students who have. failed to
make the grade at other schools
(three of the eight Charlotte par-
ticipants were Carolina flunk-
outs), this decisive win over a
team that has obviously taken
a good deal of practice time
shows that Davidson has a very
strqng team.

Medalist for. the match was
Champ Covington with a one.
over par 73. Closely following
him were Macky McClelland
with a 74, Bill Ross at 77, and
Dick Nickel at 79. Other David
son team members and their
scores Tuesday are Albert
James (80), Doug McKeever
(80), Bob Bost (83). and George
Brewer (81).

Low score. for Charlotte Col
lege was 75, posted by both
Butch Connell and Scotty Trot-
ter.

Coach Tom Scott stated that
the match showed that the team
is improving. “This is the first
time that we have had four men
shoot under 80 in the same
match. With scores Jiké these,
we would probably be leading
the Southern Conference Tour
nament,”" he reports.

Champ Covington went fur
ther to prophesy, ‘‘I honestly
think that we will win the South
ern Conference. Tournament.
Our only competition would
come from The Citadel. Every
man is five strokes under what
he was at the start of prac-
tice."

BY JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

FULFILLING A HERITAGE

The new IMAC is tentatively planning some changes
in the point allotments for the various sports and pos-
sibly some changes in classification of sports.

Changes are warranted.

Under the present rules, point allotments for major
sports are given on a proportionate basis with 100 points
to the winner. Classified in this category are flickerball,
basketball, and softball.

__ Intermediate sports are awarded points on an 80
point scale and minor sports on a 60 point scale. In the
middle category. are volleyball, swimming, wrestling, and
track, and the minor sports are handball and tennis.

_ Two major changes are needed: a change in classi-
fication of sports and a change in point allotment.

_ _,The three major sports are classified as such with
justification. They are team sports that require more
than just two or three outstanding players in order to
win. The standings in these sports are fair as possible
since round-robin schedules are played, allowing each
team to meet every other team.

However, the division of the remaining sports into
intermediate and minor is pointless. Why should swim-
ming or wrestling be more important than handball and
tennis?

1 believe that the justification used for this setup
is that the two minor sports require only one or two par-
ticipants, while several participants are involved in the
intermediate sports. :

This is true, but handball gives every fraternity an
equal chance and thus more accurate standings because
a round-robin schedule is played. Wrestling points are
not completely an accurate rating of the teams because
of the chance elements in the tournament bracketing. |

Also, swimming, wrestling, and track tournaments
are. held within a two-day period, thus varying a team’s
standing according to who has reviews the next day.

Handball’s round-robin schedule and tennis’ double-
elimination tournament spread these sports out over
several days and help remove the chance element of a
fraternity’s best participant not being able to play on
the only day or two that the sport is played.

Two-day tournaments are only way to conduct the
intermediate sports, except volleyball, but handball and
tennis, at least by virtue of their fairer standings, should
get as many points as these three sports.

‘My second point is allotment of points. Under pres-
ent rules, the winner of a major sport gets only 20 more
points tnan the winner of an ‘intermediate” sport. The
major sports are by far more important because they are
more accurate measurements of fraternities’ athletic
abilities, requiring teams instead of a few outstanding
individuals. .

The major sports should be worth twice as much as
the two-day affairs. A more practical set-up for the IMAC
would be to have just two categories—major and minor
—and to allot major sports points on a 160 point basis
and minor sports (everything but flickerball, basketball,
and softball) points on an 80 point scale. . ;

The new IMAC has a long heritage of ineptitude,
disorganization, and apathetic laziness. It seems to have
gotten a quick start in living up to this heritage. No
records—not even of softball standings—have been kept
since it began work (?) last week. The officers don’t even
know ‘what games have been played in softball or any-
thing about the tennis tournament except that “it's com-
ing along pretty well.” .

In the words of one of Davidson’s immortals, how
about “a New Tradition.”?

LEFTY DOES IT AGAIN

Lefty has done it again. His signing of New Orleans’
Bobby Lane last Tuesday makes the fourth all-stater
destined for next year’s freshman basketball team, a
squad with the potential to possibly outshine the 1962
frosh team of Hetzel, Davidson, Teague, Marcon, and Co.

The 6’4”, 195 Ib. Lane, an all-state pick from Louis-
jana for the last two years, joins 6’10” Dlinois all-stater
Tom Youngdale, 6’8” North Carolina all-stater Rodney
Knowles, and 6’3” Scott Sinnock, an all-state choice in
Indiana. ;

One of the most sought-after prep cagers in the
South, Lane received scholarship offers from approxi:
mately 60 colleges, including such powers as Duke and
Vanderbilt.

The interest of the 60 schools certainly seems war-
ranted. Playing for Newman School in New Orleans, Lane
averaged 17 points per game as a sophomore, 20.5
tallies his junior year, finished with an average of 24.3
this past season, and is called by his high school coach
“the best basketball player and best kid I've ever coach-

ed.”

The nationally.ranked Moun-
taineers are now undefeated
and are tied with VPI in the
conference. Following the Mor-
gantown doubleheader, _ the
‘Cats take on conference patsy
William and Mary in another
doubleheader.

In the past week, the ‘Cats
dropped a doubleheader’ to
Georgia Southern, 7-0 and 10-9.
and beat High Point at High
Point, 6-5. The second Georgia
Southern loss was the only one-
run loss the ‘Cats have suffer-
ed this year.

In the first game against
NAIA power Georgia Southern,
Coach Tom Steven's baseball-
ers failed to solve the hurling
of pitcher Bob Absture and lost
their fourth shutout of the year.

In the second game the Wild-
cats blew a seemingly safe
eight-run lead and lost 10-9.
Davidson first baseman Rick
Smyre had his best day of the
year, hitting a home run and
two singles in four times at
bat and driving in four runs.

However, the visitors showed]:
their fighting spirit by coming}!
back to score five runs in the|'

In his last two years, Lane led Newman to two state
championships, and was selected both years as the Out-
standing Player in the state tourney, a tournament which,
before eliminations, includes all the high schools in the
Stale National Merit Finalist and a member of the Na-
tional Honor Society, Lane is described by Driesell as ‘‘a
real outstanding student.” Lefty isn’t the only one who
thinks so. Lane was also accepted by each of the Ivy
League’s Big Three—Harvard, Princeton, and Yale. —
‘And Lefty isn’t through yet. Says the hero of David-
son’s rags-to-riches story, “We're hoping to sign one,
possibly two more boys in the near future.” It looks like
Snyder and Stone won't be too lonesome two years

hence.

CHARL

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson Netmen Roll On, |
Wallop Campbell And Pfeiffer

Davidson’s up and com- 20 games before Airial finally
ing tennis team ran its sea- Won 7-5, 6-2.

son’s récord to 13-4 by
downing Pfeiffer College
Tuesday in Davidson.
Pfeiffer’s netmen were com-
pletely outclassed by the Wild-
cat netters, who took every set
on the way to a 90 whitewash.

No Wildcat netter was ever
threatened as Woody Cleveland

ga. | defeated Joe Strain and Coun-

cil defeated Harry Knapp by
identical 6-2, 6-4 scores. Bill

“) Schutt. defeated Loveland. 6-0,

6-0, Jeff Frank defated Stokes
6-3, 6-3. Ariail defeated Jimmy
Welborn, 6-1, 6-4, and Dave
Meschan defeated Bill Colbert,
6-0, 6-1 to complete the sweep
of the singles matches.

In the doubles, the Cats’ su-
periority was never in doubt.
Cleveland and Hurd combined
to down Strain-Knapp, 6:2, 6 2 in
the closest. doubles match of the
afternoon. Ariail - Baumgardner
took Loveland Stokes, 6-1, 6-2,
and Frank Meschan downed Col-
bert-Welborn 6-0, 6-2.

INDIVIDUAL RECORDS

Schutt 8-9
Hurd 10-3
Cleveland 14-2
Council 11-4
Frank 9-1
Ariail 12-3
Baumgardner 7-4
Meschan 41

Monday. Davidson ended a
ld-match winning streak by
Campbell by smashing the Cam-
els 9-0. The Buies Creek boys
were never a threat to the Da-
vidson team and avoided a com.
plete whitewashing by taking
one set in a doubles match.

Schutt began a Wildcat sweep
by downing Kirkman, 6.0, 6-0.
Hurd took. Young, 6-0, 6-1. Cleve-
land defeated Bailey 63 6-0 and
Council downed Temple, 6-0, 6-0
to give the ‘Cats a fast 4-0 lead.
Frank smashed Jenkins, 61, 6.1
while Ariail and Pharr played

“The boys are all developing
real well. Shutt especially is
coming along well,’ comment-
ed Coach Fogleman on_ the
matches. ‘“‘He came from be-
hind in Virginia to take his
match. I think we have regained

PAGE FIVE

the form we showed in Florida Colonials handed the ‘Cats their
at the first of the season.” fourth defeat of the year and
In a tour last week, which in- were never in any trouble. Fo-
cluded matches with George glemen’s netmen could muster
Washington -and William and only one victory by John Airial.
Mary, Davidson was given a in a singles match while falling
preview of what it could ex- 8.1.
pect in the Conference Tourna Fortunately, the William and
ment to be played soon. The Mary Indians posed no such

DAVIDSON DEFENDS TITLE

problem, as the Wildcat netters
racked up a 9-0 victory over
the Indians.

The ‘Cats take on the Dea-
cosn of Wake Forest tomorrow
at Winston Salem. The Deacons
promise to give the Wildcats
one of the better matches of the
season, according to Fogleman.

Powerful Field Set For Relays

Davidson standouts Alan Tur-
ner and David Brown will lead
the Wildcat cindermen into the
rugged competition of tomor-
row afternoon's Fourth Annual
Davidson Relays in Richardson
Stadium.

These relays have the spe
cial distinction of being the only
relays ‘in the country in which
only non-subsidized teams com-
pete.

Davidson has won the relays
every year so far, but Coach
Whittle expects the competition
“to be much stiffer this year.”
Lenoir Rhyne and Tennessee
Tech both have very strong
teams, and Washington and Lee
is also expected to put up tough
competition.

The Relays will consist of all
field events and six relays. The
Telays are the 440, 880, mile,
sprint medley, distance medley,
and 2-mile relay. Coach WhitUle
feels that. his best hopes. are the
relays and Bill Mills in the pole
vault.

The Davidson Relays have
grown every vear and this year.
the University of Richmond may
enter, bringing the field to six-
teen schools, Next year. Coach
Whittle plans to invite Florida
Presbyterian and St. Andrews.

Five places will be | given
points in each event. and the
first three places will receive
plaques and trophies, for each
member of these teams.

Cagers Elect Hetzel

Alternate for the 1964 U.S. Olympic basketball team,
player of the year twice for the Southern Conference,

etc., etc., Fred Hetzel added

another to his list of honors

Wednesday night — captain of the 1964-65 Davidson

basketball team,

This latest award, announced by Coach Lefty Drie-
sell at the annual basketball supper, was determined by
a vote of this past year’s team.

His election -hardly a surprise to anyone, Hetzel
leads a predominately senior team into action against
NYU, Ohio State, St. Joseph’s, and VMI.

BY FORREST ROLES

top of the seventh to win.

Davidson came back too
in the High Point game
to win its fifth one-run de-
cision. Behind 5-1, the ‘Cats
tied it in the eighth on run-pro-
ducing singles by Rick Smyre
and Don Davidson.

In the tenth, the ‘Cats scored
the winning runs when Steve
Heckard doubled and scored on
an error. Dave Johnson picked

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.

OTTE

WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Wildcat Nine Roar Once
But Still Mostly Kittens

Davidson's baseball team attempts to even its Southern Conference record to-
morrow against perhaps the toughest team on its schedule—West Virginia.

up the win by pitching six in-
nings of shut-out ball in relief

of Ronnie Rudolph.

the Ntonder ator g
Drie ness

A MALAYSIAN

Spring sstie tug

! Wath ponetoaiig sei Shira Sod eae
> :
aspects rd (re Vinei teat

eiebiie a Fe gtd st

THE FUN BEGINS AT

HATTIE'S

““sust up the road....” 4

RE

. = a a a
e U Stella Stevens, as a Confederate spy in the Civil War, holds
Union captain. Glenn Ford at bay in this scene from Metro-

Now Bus Station and
Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

to 33. David Brown, the high
point man with .17 points, and
Alan Turner, winner of the 220
and 100 yard dashes, ‘‘should be
ready to go tomorrow,'' says
Whittle.

Coach Whittle feels that rec- participating unattached. Heath
ords should fall in the pole has vaulted 15 feet and holds
vault. and shot put. An extra at- the record for UNC,
traction will be Whittle’s son, The team is fresh from an
Heath, Jr., who will be home overwhelming. victory over
from Quantico and who will be Presbyterian by a score of 103

Unbeatens Leads Softball;
Upsets Cloud Picture

BY BILL BRIGGS

As the IMAC softball season approaches the halfway mark, the Kappa Sigs and

Phi Gams have pushed into a tie for first place with identical records of 6-0.
However, not many people have filled the season so far. they will probably meet either
(maybe a few Gams or Sigs) As for tennis, the Phi Delts the Sigma Chi'’s or the Inde-
‘would bet that either team will seem to be everyone's pick to pendents. They have already
finish the season unbeaten. win. They are already assured beaten both of them once in the
This year’s league is unusual- of a berth in the finals, and double elimination tournament.

ly balanced. Comparing scores = ~~
can lead only to complete frus- —
Lration. The Pi Kapps have
beaten the Betas: the Betas
have beaten the KA‘s: yet. in
the past five games the KA's
have been unstoppable.

Only a Pi Kapp would dare
suggest that they will beat the
surging bovs of Bobby Lee next
week.

Last week's second place
PiKA’s had their three game
winning streak cut. short by the
Phi Delts last Monday. The
KA‘s used the PiKA’s as a step
ping stone Thursday: -to record
their fifth straight. win.

The Phi Gams have pulled out
a few one and two run affairs -
thal would indicate some sort
of mass fraternity prayers. Last
Wednesday's game against the
last-place Sigma Nu's is a per
fect example.

Behind all the game, the
Gams’ Dave Lopp stole home
with two out in the last inning
to score the winning run.

Each day it becomes harder
and hatder to predict. winners
of cach game. Weather, who
comes, the field, etc. have led
to many of the surprises that
ee

UNOFFICIAL STANDINGS

As Compiled By
Davidsonlan Sports Staff ‘

———

Kappa Sig 6-0 “DIAMOND” LYMAN DILLON dazzles the Independents with
Phi Gam 6-01 his pitching ability. Unfortunately for Lyman and his SAE’s, the
Phi Delt “1 Indys recovered themselves in time to eke out a 12-run victory.
KA 5-21 (Photo by Smith)

PIKA 3-2

Sigma Chi 3-2

Independent 34

ATO 2-3

Beta 2-4

SAE 1-3

PI Kapp 4 STUDENTS & TEACHERS

Siome. Nu 0-7 Largest NEW directory. Lists hundreds of perman-

ent career opportunities in Europe, South America,
Africa and the Pacific. for MALE or FEMALE.
Totals 50 countries. Gives specific addresses and
names prospective U.S. employers with foreign
subsidiaries. Exceptionally high pay, free travel.
etc. In addition. enclosed vital guide and proced-
ures necessary to foreign employment. Satisfaction
guaranteed. Send two dollars to Jobs Abroad Di-
rectory—P. O. Box 13593—Phoenix, Arizona.

up t

|

Goldwyn-Mayer’s “‘Advance to the Reor.” Melvyn Douglas
also stare in the rip-roaring comedy of a company of “sad
sacks” who prove to be heroes rather than cowards almost
despite themselves. George Marshall (‘How the V est Was
Won") directed the new Ted Richmond production.

NOW Student CENTER
PLAYING 75¢. CHARLOTTE

