«

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1965

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davideonian Sporte Editer

SOUR GRAPES ASIDE...

“Ridiculous” is how Virginia Tech Basketball coach
Howie Shannon recently described the Southern Confer-
ence’s method of determining its basketball champion
with a three-day tournament after three months of rigor-
ous competition has only decided tournament bracketing.

tn an interview in Monday’s Richmond Times-Dis-
patch, Shannon stated that only a round-robin schedule
“would decide a true champion.”

Sour grapes aside, it is evident that Shannon is
right—a single elimination tournament to determine a
conference champion makes little sense when it is possi-
ble to determine a champion on the basis of a full
season’s play. Every major conference in the country,
except the Southern and Atlantic Coast conferences, long
ago realized this rather self-evident fact.

The tourney-selection method hasn’t exactly always
been a great boon to conference prestige either. Last

year the Southern had three outstanding teams — reg-|:

ular-season champ Davidson, second-place West Virginia,
and third-place Virginia Tech — which would have been
capable of at least sparing the conference embarrass-
ment in the Eastern regionals.
But some rather gutty playing by a spirited VMI
team in three tournament games earned that group the
right to represent the Southern as its best team. Every-
body knows the rest. A team can ridé on guts alone
just so far, and the Keydets got clobbered in the first
round of the regionals 86-60 by the Ivy League’s Prince-
ton, a team that Davidson had mauled 106-68.
In 1961 George Washington won the tournament
championship as West Virginia, ranked ninth in the
nation, was upset in the semi-finals by William and
| Mary. Again a tournament upset took conference pres-

tige down with it as the Colonials were romped 84-67

by the same non-subsidized Ivy League school that mash-

ed VMI. wee:
It is true that the tournament gives everybody a
chance to be conference champion, but it seems that the
champion should be the best (cam, not necessarily the
team which does best in a three-day tournament after
three months of competition that officially decides noth-
ing.

The major advantage of the tournament is the
money it adds to the conference treasury. As Commis-
sioner Lloyd Jordan points out, this is especially import-
ant to the Southern Conference because of the lack of
revenue from bowl: games and TV that other conferences
receive, but this object could be realized just as well
with a holiday conference tournament that has no ef-
fect on the regular season standings. There is little
doubt that such a tournament would be a sellout, con-
sidering the single game sellouts that Davidson attracts
to the coliseum.

Shannon pointed out that such a tournament works
successfully for the Big Eight conference, suggesting
“Bring all the teams together three or four days right
after Christmas. I'll guarantee you it will make as much
money as the post-season thing does right now.”

Another alternative would be a playoff game be-
tween the tournament champion and the regular season
champion if they resulted in different teams. This would
allow for the possibility of a vast improvement by a team
toward the season's end, thus providing it a chance at the
title despite its record. However, at the same time, it
would greatly decrease the chance of a fluke champion,
as the regular season champion would have to be beaten
twice in the playoffs before it would be prevented from
representing the conference in the regionals. Such a
solution would also add to the league treasury when an
extra game would be necessary.

Davidson ovtclasses the rest of the conference so
much this season that there is little chance of a fluke
champion this year. But when the conference executive
committee meets this spring, it should study the present
tournament system as a basis for determining the South-
ern Conference Championship for what it is worth —
which isn't a whole lot.

NOTES...

Track coach Heath Whittle takes six runners to Lex-
ington, Va. tomorrow for the VMI Indoor Relays. Par-
ticipating will be Alan Turner in the 60 yd. dash, John
Barrow on the 2-mile run, and Tom Watson, Ronnie
Reese, Dennie Phillips, and Tom Heffner, in the distance
medley relay.

With four Negroes among the first six players, West
Virginia’s freshman basketball team has streaked to a
15-1 record, averaging over 96 points a game and drop-
ping only'a one-point decision to West Virginia Tech, Ron
Williams, a 6-3 guard, leads the team in scoring with 32.1
points a game in rebounding and assists.

in another recent article, Richmond Times-Dispatch
writer Jerry Lindquist interviewed Virginia Tech athletic
director Frank Mosely about the possibility of Tech be-
coming an independent. “I wouldn’t say I would and I
-wouldn’t say I wouldn’t recommend it”, said the some-
what cautious former football coach, but in view of Mose-
ly’s aspirations for big-time football, the big games neces-
sary to pay for such football, and the presence of only
four league teams on the VPI schedule in every season
from 1966 to 1969, Lindquist concludes, “All signs point
to Tech leaving the Southern Conference.”

RONNIE AYERS GOES IN FOR TWO
Sigs Top Chis tn Close One

‘Kappa

By TOM WHITE
Davidsonion Sports Weiter
Davidson’s Wildcats with

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ord winning streak to six-
teen games breaking by one
game the conference and

‘victories before and after school record set last year
exams stretched their_rec- bv the ’Cats before losing to

re | TE
TRICKY DICK GRABS REBOUND

One Hand’s Enough For ECTC

By TUCKER LAXTON
Davidson Sports Writer
Davidson takes on three
tough opponents, beginning
tonight, who are capable of
breaking the fifth-ranked
Wildcats’ sixteen-game win-
ning streak. The ’Cats play
George Washington tonight
at the Charlotte Coliseum,
West Virginia at the Coli-
seum Monday night, and
Furman at Greenville next
Thursday.

George Washington brings a
deceiving 6-9 record to Char-
lotte. After dropping their first
five games, the Colonials went
on to defeat the likes of West
Virginia. VMI. and Navy, while
losing by only two points to St.
John’s, a team that beat Michi-
gan.

80B CAMP
6’ 8” Beanpole

West Virginia.
Before exams the ‘Wildcats

lina fell to the ‘Cats who then
took Wake Forest and V.M.L.

the reigning Southern Confer-
ence Tournament Champions

breezed by The Citadel, West but with much more difficulty. 84-78.

Virginia, and Presbyterian. On
the day exams ended East Caro-
es ~~

v

= bom — —-
(Staff Photo by Sproul)

GW, W. VA., FURMAN

3 SC Games Face Wildcats

However, their hopes for an
‘upset are pretty well dashéd by
the fact that Kenny Legins,
their top rebounder and scorer.
broke his foot against West Vir-
ginia Monday night.

GW will have to depend a
lot on their two guards. Mark
Clark and Rick Duques. Clark
scores well from anywhere on
the court, and Duques is a hust-
ler who gives the opposition
trouble with his defense.

At the forwards will be Phil
Aruscavage and Bill Murtha,
both 6-3. Aruscavage is a rug-
ged competitor with lots of de-
sire. Great things are expected
to come from Murtha, a trans-
fer student from Chicago Loy-
ola. Soph Dick Ballard. 6-7. will
probably fill in for Legins.

Monday night the 'Cats play
West Virginia in the Coliseum.
Balance is the word for the
Mountaineers as they have eight
men who can be called regulars.
Coach George King shuffles
them in and out frequently, hav-
ing tried ten different starting
combinations in the last fifteen
games.

An 89-72 loss to Penn State
Wednesday night brought the
Mountaineers’ season record to
10-9. They are 6-4 in the confer-
ence.

Heading the regulars is angu-
lar Bob Camp, a 6-8 beanpole
currently averaging 16 points a
game. He moves all over the
court flailing at the ball on de-
fense and taking set shots on
offense.

West Virginia also boasts a
pair of flashy backcourt start-
ers in Buddy Quertinmont and
Dave Palmer, filling in for the
injured Ricky Ray. At 6-3.
Quertinmont is big for a guard
and is especially hard to stop
because of his drive. He’s shoot-
ing at a clip of 12.8 points a
game. Palmer is a sophomore
who has a good outside shot and

is fast.

Bill Maphis. 6-4 and averaging
14 points a, game, will be at
one forward. Bill Ryczaj 6-6,
will probably start at the other.
Bob Benfield, 6-8. John Cavacini,
6-3. and Perry Polinsky. 6-7, all
will see action.

Thursday the Wildcats jour-
ney to Furman where they suf-
fered their most humilating de-
feat last year by a score of

After twelve day lay-off the
‘Cats roared back to defeat
ECTC 682-68 with Fred Hetzel
leading the way with 28 points.
Davidson fans were greatly re-
lieved when Don Davidson re-
joined the line-up after a month
with a sore foot, as the 6-5 for-
ward wiggled in 19 points in one
of his best efforts.

On Saturday night during the
semester break the ‘Cats trav-
eled through the snow to Greens-
boro to tackle Wake Forest in
front of a capacity crowd of
over 9000. From the opening
whistle fast-breaking Davidson
jumped ouf to a 16-8 lead with
Don Davidson scoring half of
Davidson's total. From this the
‘Cats extended their lead to 13
points at 31 to 18 with 5:43 re-
maining as Fred Hetzel poured
in 11 of those points.

The opening of the second-half
saw the Deacons come within
one point of Davidson before
the Wildcats managed to score.

The offensive chores in this
half were taken over by the out-
side men: Charlie Marcon who
scored ten crucial second half
points, Davidson who wheeled
and dealed for a team high of
23 (along with Hetzel), and
Barry Teague who sank six
game clinching foul shots in the
closing minutes, as Davidson
finally won 78-71.

On the boards Fred Hetzel did
one of the best jobs of his ca-
reer. He was paired against
Wake's 6-6 Ronnie Watts, one
of the top rebounders in the
ACC, yet pulled down 22 re-
bounds to break a coliseum
record of 21 set by Wake For-
est’s former All American Len
Chappell, and he- also held the
high-scoring Watts to 4 points in
the first half.

Tuesday the Wildcats traveled
to V.M.I. and barely defeated

70:55, The Paladins may slow
the ball down and wait for the

shot as they did last year.

Guard Dan Goolsby leads the
Furman scoring contingent with
a deadly outside shot. Rugged
Les Heicher will be at the other
guard. Bane Sarrat and David
Selvy will be at forwards, along
with 6-5 Norm Schaffer at cen-
ter..Frank Saier and Mike Muth

are capable substitutes.

ow
fii

BUDDY QUERTINMONT

M2

Flash Backcourt Starter

Sigs Top Sigma Chis

To Stay Unbeaten In IMAC

By PAUL MARION

Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Kappa Sigs returned from
the exam break to down two op-
ponents and retain their hold
on first place in IMAC basket-
ball competition. After defeat-
ing the powerful Sigma Chis 81-
70, they rolled the Sigs Eps 74-

~ 92, .

Stu Burness with 25 points,
Ray Garrison with 15, and Tom
Reams with 12 were the spark-
plugs in the Sigma Chi game,
while Buddy Dubose and Tucker
Laxton joined the others to beat
the Sig Eps.

The ATO’s continued to show

their strength in squelching the
Pi Kapps 56-30 and the Pikas
42-31. Rufus Adair threw in 18
points against the Pikas and
added 12 in the Pi Kapp game,
while Pat Hubbard scored 9 and
15. Freshman Geoff Birkhead al-
so performed well for the Taus.
Harold Kernodle chalked up 12
points for the Pi Kapps.

The Phi Gams completed a
successful week by knocking off
the Betas and then the KA’s 54-
44. Against Robert E. Lee’s
boys, the Gams were led by
Johnny Little's 16 points and
Jim Hyder’s 12.

The KA's leading scorer was

Grey Winfield with 17 points.
followed by Sam Grimes with 9.

By stopping the Sig Eps 54-
32 and the Pi Kapps 70-39, the
Phi Delts continued their win-
ning ways. Leading the Delts
ever the Sig Eps were John
Barrow, who canned 12 points,
and Allen Johnson with 10. Jim
Shackleford was impressive for
the Sig Eps with 18 points.

Ronny Hunt amassed 25 points
against the Pi Kapps and Wayne
Rhodes and John Fagg followed
with 14 and 8 points respective-
ly. Harold Kernodle again was
high man for the Pi Kapps with
17.

The Sigma Chis flexed their
muscles in thrashing the SAE’s
48-24. Joel Williamson got 12
points to add to his 24 against
the Kappa Sigs and Basil Hicks
had 14 which equaled his output
in the Kappa Sig game. Paul
Reichardt added 10 and sparked
the Chis’ tight defense.

The SAE's were able to gain
revenge by a 45-39 win over
the Sigma Nus. Mike Booe col-
lected 20 points and Ed Arm-
field added 12. The Nus were
again sparked by Arthur Clark's
18 points and Bill Barnett, a
freshman, who scored 15,

The Keydets forced the usual-
ly stingy Wildcats into several
ball-handling mistakes and com-
pletely man-handled the ‘Cats
on the boards, grabbing 46 re-
bounds to Davidsons’ 36. De-
spite this, Davidson was cau-
tious in taking shots and ended
the night hitting 52.3%.

Dick Snyder. with the Wake
Forest game still in “his mind,
seemed to get the clutch bas-
kets until he fouled out late in
the second-half, leaving the
game with 22 points. Hetzel sup-
plied 20 points and pulled down
14 rebounds.

Before exams The Citadel was
out-run by Davidson 100-81, de-
spite 5000 yelling fans. The
whole team saw action led by
Hetzel getting 26 points and 17
rebounds followed closely by

PAGE FIVE

s\Nation’s Number 5 Cats Streak To 16th Straight

Dick Snyder with 24 points.

Also, the ‘Cats went to West
Virginia for a not-too-friendly
Mountaineer welcome. From the
outset it was nip-and-tuck with
the score tied eleven times dur-
ing the game. .

The Wildcats. not to be out-
done, ‘managed to get ahead
with the help of Hetzel’s 25
points and 15 rebounds and Sny-
der's 16 points. Teague as usual
put the game on ice by hitting
8 of 10 free throws, many of
which came in the closing
minutes.

Don Davidson, playing on a
hurt foot. had 13 points and
Charlie Marcon, 14, as the ‘Cats
held on and won. 86-77.

Then, the Wildcats let off
their pre-game steam by scor-
ing a Johnston Gym record of
130 points and holding PC to
67. Leading scorers for David-
son were Hetzel, with 31, and
Snyder with 26.

Blair, Stevens To Aid
Smith’s New FB Staff

By BILL BRIGGS
Assistant Sports Editor
Kenneth Blair, former Colorado end, was recently
named as the first new assistant to Davidson’s head foot-
ball coach Homer Smith, as Smith also announced that
Tom Stevens, chief aide to former coach Bill Dole, is
being retained.

Blair has been at Davidson
only since last Friday, coming
from the University of Colorado
to be offensive line coach for
Smith’s first team here next
year.

The latest addition to David-
son’s football staff, Blair is the
first of two new assistants that
Smith plans to bring to David-
son. He was an All-Big Eight
end and team captain at Colo-
tado in 1962. Playing both of-
fense and defense at Colorado.
Blair also played in the 1961
Orange Bow! game.

Coach Smith and Blair have
known each other personally for ¥
several years, first meeting as
opponents in the Air Force
Academy - Colorado rivalry. .

Shortly after his appointment |

as head coach, Smith contacted - é . in
Blair at Colorado where he was KEN BLAIR
helping coach the. freshman New Football Assistant
football team.

“I think this is a beautiful’ Athletic Director, Tom Scott
place”. Blair remarked. “I'm remarked about the changes.
very impressed with the people. ‘Tom Stevens has done a fine
the campus, the students, and job for us in both football and
the players. They want to win baseball. Blair with his back-
football—if we get organized. we ground as a star player at Colo-
will win. rado plus the experience he has

Stevens has been at Davidson gained as a coach should be an
since 1957. He came from East outstanding addition. .
Mecklenburg to help with foot- ‘*We feel that Shoe and Thrift
ball, coach baseball. and be @ have done an outstanding job
physical education instructor. here—Shoe as an assistant foot-

Dwight Shoe and Roger ball coach, swimming coach,
Thrift. both assistants under and physical education instruc-
Dole. will be released after this tor, and Thrift as a football as-
school year. sistant, freshman baseball}

; 1 coach, and physical education
Swim Team instructor; .he even took
Splashes To

.

over as track coach one year.
“Their dismissal is just one
of those things. A new coach
certainly has the right to select
His own staff.”
4-2 Mark Besides Stevens and Blair two
more assistants: will be named.
: probably within the next week.
“Im really pleased with) this is one more coach than
the team's progress this|jast year's football squad had.
season,” said Coach Dwight] “1, ihe past Davidson has used
Shoe recently as he talked} jw, qualified ROTC instructors
about the SUCCESS of the; as football assistants. Next year
swimming team. “We have! only Captain Don Campbell will
a 4-2 record this season in-| pe used from the ROTC. depart-
cluding losses to East Caro-} ment.
lina and William and Mary.”| In place of the other ROTC
In the post-Christmas period, | raculty member a new assistant
the team has only faced one will be named.
opponent. This was in the meet | -.
with William and Mary. The .
Wildcats lost. this one by a mar- W: ft dD |
Wildats os olford Dismanties
“Butch Falligant was out: Sh | M
standing, taking first place in|: oolers nt eel
diving."" commented Shoe. He] Wofford Rifle Team  over-
also gave credit to Jim Stokes! powered the Davidson ROTC
for his efforts in the 200-yard} Team. 1280-1219, January 9, in
butterfly and to Lloyd Davidson! the only match the ’Cats have

dividual medley. John Helm re-

work.

Tuesday. The Citadel visits the
splash with the ’Cats. The meet

home meets in the next month.

Shoe expressed pleasure at
the performance of Stokes. Da-
vidson, Hughes. and Helm.
“They all did a good job. All
of them are swimming close to
the school record for their
events.

“John Alexander and Jim
Grey are beginning to get in
good shape. They ought to be
swimming in top form by The
Citadel meet and certainly by
the championship meet. They
will have to be.

titude. They stayed here on their
own over semester break and
spent a lot of time in the water."

and Randy Hughes in the in-|had since Christmas.

Jim Clark shot a high score

ceived commendation for his| for Davidson of 255. Team cap-

tain Jim Kopp. was second with

Another trip was scheduled for | 251. Walt Eastes had 241. Art
a meet with Union College on Abplanalp shot a 240 and Will
January 29, but was cancelled.| Norman had a 231,

Kopp was rather disgusted

Johnston Gym swimming hole to| with the team’s performance,

noting ‘It was our worst match

is one of only two remaining|of the season. We certainly

should have been able to beat
Wofford.” He added, “You
might say that this is a build-
ing year for the rifle team. We
lost the only senior on the team.
Ronnie Rudolph, at mid-season,
and now we are competing with
one junior, four sophomores and
a freshman.”

The team’s coach, Sgt. Henry.
Eaves, admitted that the marks-
men made a poor showing
against Wofford but hopes that
the team can redeem itself at
Richmond. On the thirteenth,

“They all have a terrific at-| the 'Cats will meet Richmond

there, and will travel to Blacks-
burg on the twentieth for a
match with VPI,
