THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spring Frolics Si
Revival Of Tribal

of even the most grim pumpers The height of the honoring is
prostrated before Sol, Thebench- the tribal ritual known as Spring
es at Hattie’s are once more in- Frolics.

habited by the afternoon sipping The ceremony begins with a
society, which for six months of purification rite at The Truck- table the ceremony for the eve-
the year is doomed to meét be- er's Inn on Thursday night. ning is ended.

neath those nightmarish mur- Hundreds of ‘participants stand
als, done probably by No-mind. beneath the: lucid sky and tip, °

a mee . in reverence to the eternal can.

The quaint custom of annoint- »
ing the Iron Horse is the climax |
of the festivity. The participants
then return to their brick ho-
gans to prepare themselves for
the main part of the ritual by
bagging.

A mortification of the flesh
follows as a thousand men try
» to bull their way, unprepared,
through Friday classes, able to

CRYPTS

more libations trying to reach
the high place, which most do,
As the participants slip quietly
beneath the western edge of the

It takes spring a long time to
find Davidson, but once she set-
tles down for a visit all else is
neglected to cater to the honored
guest. This catering takes the
most bizarre forms.

On a stroll across campus one

PAGE THREE is likely to see the pallid bodies

he ee "4
ohana ere
io, i ‘ ‘

FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1965

Will bad press spoil Al Carson? Will he write
a Springsy-Frolicsy column for Spring Frolics? Or,

will he lash out once again at the arch-enemy, David-
son College, and defy his critics?

eal

—]

7 ”

y - Cte}

mg, " as j f ¥

re

Alas, it seems he could find nothing more to
criticize, and he has written an entertaining little
Story. He has even debased himself by opening
the story with...

Once upon a time there was a quaint, small vil-
lage — a little -vacation town nestled among the
green foothills of the Appalachians, far away from
the cares of the world. There was little talk of civil
rights upheavals, less of social injustice, and none
concerning the Bomb.

The town catered primarily to younger people,
particularly young gentlemen who went there to rest
and catch up on their neglected reading. The most
peculiar feature of the tiny vacation spa was,
however, not its clientele, but the fact that most
of the holiday activity occurred during the fall, win-
ter, and spring months, with June, July, and August
very unpopular, though some few saw fit to visit dur-
ing the summer.

Townsfolk called the village Alendalux, though
the vacationers referred to it by many other names.

Those townsfolk, the regular residents of Alen-
dalux were, it seems, cleft into two opposing ele-
ments. Oh, there was indeed heated animosity be-
tween the two factions. And, can you guess who

SPRING MAKES IT TO DAVIDSON
Tribal Rites Begin In Variety Of Ways

FROLICS SURVEYED

begin. The

Jame

@ painful
mw your
take place
know’

the concert
few of

want

the

7 the

come at

the
ng the concer
in the
.

(Staff Photo by Thel)
ful ceremony.

All

Fathers have,

wisdom,

+

think only of. the weekend.

As noon approaches, the drums
sanctified
Brown and Rufus
drift up from

v. afternoon. her

ino

proces oO: ge

b

as
played
s held. Actually very
ritual
to attend these formalized
rites, but realizing that this was
only way. to get a date to
all, he goes
The core of the ‘worship serv
after party.
the whale tribe
returns to their lodgings to dress
appropriate
striped overalls, madras bermu-
das, torso tee shirts, and wheat
jeans are all found at the color-

are forced to forsake the
camping grounds, for the Holy

]

decreed that

sound . of
Thom

the fraternits

pun
lind date then
“who do you

After supper

participants

Follow

IN THE SWIM
Saturday On The Lake

manner -

Saturday finds the worshipers
arising about noon (unless they
are among the more hearty who
go to class) and going to the
eating hut (not Club, but hut).

The afternoon activities in
clude such fun things as curing
a hangover by taking a bit of

n their infinite
firewater

was at fault? It was the vacationers! There was goth eipi ee a ae
——. hgpeceinaely oe = See at. : 7 4 mela a gph vagatees iy ada dunmnbily at. the poy npees ng
ardly individuals who desired to discriminate against ir & rs | er ak ring espi e ta fie the: pac ead file the dates with a tour of the 1i
the rest of the vacationers, and even against all in- Though there are several va- brary, gym, and college church,
telligent discussion and cultural pursuits made pos- For, to! the winter is past, ‘brief respite, as the Davidson- Some will be absorbed with termission th:s time they will be "tions found in this ceremony, ‘while others pay due respect to
sible by the townsfolk. (Yes, I know you must be the rain is over and gone; the ians shed their robes for three themselves tired. They will go outside for °° 4% See a general pattern the water god by cleansing cere
saying, “Can such a thing be true?”’) flowers appear on the earth; days of fun and Frolics. Many will be personable, some some fresh air 4 ” —- On ate _ at the monies * ~ — ae
: the time of the singing of birds The girls come. Some are from will be obnoxious. Some will: be Sunday is another buffet, then S27°‘U@TY. the participant and The orig Bb ares cage * ae
The two camps among the townsfolk both is come, and the voice of the high school, up for a highlight cold, more will be affectionate. a kiss goodbye and back to 'S ate mix the libation wine ritual of the one before gual
sought means for remedy of the discriminatory sit- turtle is heard in our land.— of their lives—their first college Many will be party © girls; school. _ “ne consumption during when ee giao = sages es
uation enjoyed by the 75 per cent, arriving at no yo ig ee om — Most sre teem giris’ some will be pseudo intellectu ' +2 Oe a a, whtat ranger sie tox: Seiibey ait,
: lusive decisions. S, s 4 ing co eges. Some ire working vals, preferring not to party or Is it so small a thing ss = : a ea uaa Ryo
conc turtles once again descend up girls, make out, but to sit around try No Ania adel die ame ell with pathos the anc ent tale. Being gay,: witty and clever i
The pro-75 per cent element was not overly dis- on Davidson's blooming monas Some will be shy, not’ being ing to find themselves -and_ to To have lived. light in ‘the [a a“ =, re . : pees —
turbed at first, but, as time passed, they saw the tery to provide the inmates a sure of. the right thing to do. have a deeper, intellectual rela spring, finger n an unoccupied light one has a great problem. see
weaknesses of the vacationer system. Through © tionship. <1 ae a OOO =e ee 5 ing. eee Bene
study, they sought ways to mend the situation. ‘ss themsht, 46 tave dene?— love for ee nt nthe Soon after: lunch. the virgins
A Platonic lover is -some- honaie realistic reenactment of the mat-° depart, and the ceremony is al
ng patterns of the monkey, the most at an end. Vespers is at

The anti-75 percent group was the more ada-
mant of the two, but they needed an individual to
champion their cause. Their aim was to rid Alen-
dalux of the discriminators, but affairs remained
static until, one day, they found their fearless leader.
He marched straight into the thick of the crowd
as if he really belonged there and cried out, “Hello,
everyone. My name is Ja-zazz, and I have come to
solve all of your problems. I once vacationed here
myself. In fact, I was president of the majority
element. Only, then, we had 85 percent. But all
of that is changed now.”

An investigation was immediately called con-
cerning the issue. After the investigation was un-
derway, he found an ally among the 75 percent —
the current president of the undesirables, a fellow
named von Universe. Ja-zazz and his cohorts for-
mulated a report which prescribed alteration of the

75 percent system.

At a meeting of the townsfolk, Ja-zazz asked
them to consider remedying the discriminatory sit-
uation among the vacationers. ‘An investigation had
revealed the fact that the pro-75 percent report
would be discussed first. The plan of Ja-zazz was

thing else again, Frank Crow-
inshield characterized him as
‘a man who holds the egg-
shells while somebody eats the
omelette.’—Cerf.

* . *

Most. will be appreciated by
their Davidson dates, for vari
ous reasons, but mostly because
they are girls.

OF CHEESE-CRACKER
LADIES

in with the lady who sells cheese
crackers. Friday night they will
go to hear Dionne Warick and
Mary Wells. ‘Best entertain-
ment we've had this year,” her
date will say.

Afterwards they will go to the
after-party. He will get slightly
drunk, she will get slightiy high.
He will sleep through his Satur-
day classes.

Saturday lunch. will be buffet.

beginning to congeal in his crusading mind. wu a ihe aah ec
After opening business and the presentation of lake or river. Their eyes will
meet and they will’smile warm

the pro-report, Ja-zazz jumped to his feet, ‘Mr.
Chairman!”

“Yes, Ja-zazz, What is it?”

“I’ve been reading Robert’s Rules, and it says
here that I can introduce a substitute motion along
the lines of our wonderful report. After careful
perusal of Robert’s Rules, the chairman answered,
“It seems that you are correct, Ja-zazz.”

‘Well, I move that we accept my suggestions
and cure all the ills around this place.” Ja-zazz’
motion was seconded, discussed, and fortunately,
defeated. However, little did the townsfolk realize
what was brewing inside the insulted Ja-zazz.

One of the compatriots then stood up and sug-
gested a compromise. “Let’s take the first two
points of the Ja-zazz proposal and the rest of the
pro-report.”

“Is there discussion?” asked the chairman.
There was, indeed, discussion — lengthy discussion.

Nevertheless, through Ja-zazz’ manipulations
and the fact that supper-time was dra’ near, the
motion passed — by a narrow margin, votes,
put it passed. The meeting adjourned, the two op-
posing elements even more unhappy with each other

than before.

Outside, Ja-zazz’ white charger was waiting for
him. Ja-zazz mounted the steed and galloped out of
Alendalux, seeking other good deeds to perform.

Vacationers turned their backs on Alendalux

(Staff Photo by Thel)

FROLICS GREETINGS: COMPREHENSIVE .. .
The Provinces Send Their Contingents . . .

ly.

Supper that night will be in
Charlotte, then back to Davidson
for Fred Smoot and The Letter
men. ‘We had them last year,
too,”’ her date will tell her.

Another after-party, but by in

Friday afternoon she will sign

The Davidsonian will again As the

don his robe that night and head

for the chapel. the

night

dog, the pony, and/or the bird:

musi¢ increases in intensity
tribesmen drink more

tended by all the tribesmen and
the sweet hour of prayer calls
to an end the tribal saga of the
celebration of spring.

the
and
and

progresses

(Staff Photo by ‘Thel)

... OR APPREHENSIVE?
As The Best Weekend Of The Year Arrives

Davidson Revisited: Olga Slunk Goes Society

It’s funny that this particular spring
day ten years ago should remain so vivid
in my mind when all of the other springs
since then or before, even the spring of
my wedding, have become a haze in my
memory. I don’t guess anything has been
more impressed on me than the events
of that Spring Frolics weekend in 1965,
for this was the year of Olga Slunk’s
debut in college society.

She wasn’t a college girl. She lived in
a small mountain town, the name of
which escapes me, and worked there as
a waitress in the one restaurant serving
that area. She was nineteen years old and
had quit school at the end of the fifth
grade, hampered somewhat I suppose by
an IQ of 50.

The first thing you noticed about Olga
was that she was as ugly, as grotesque,
as any living thing that you could imag-

appropriate but I find it hard to put into
words, for she really had really few char-
acteristics which could classify her in any
one animal order.

If you looked closely you could tell
that she had two legs, a torso of sorts,
and, using the term loosely, a face. Her
hair stayed filthy, hanging—no, sticking
—out of her head in matted shafts.

Her face was a twisted, puffed, dis-
arming array of bone and fat sur-
rounding two widely-spaced eyes; a bulb-
ous nose from which a steady flow
of mucous emerged; a badly healed
hairlip for a mouth, which enclosed an
easily distinguishable cleft palate; and
last of all a wart, as large as I’ve ever
seen, nearly covering the pitted puff of
scar tissue which passed for her left
cheek.

The rest of her was just an amorphous

There the fat stopped, for her legs
were like the proverbial toothpicks, ex-
tending in almost a straight line down to
the most ghastly feet that have ever car-
ried a person anywhere.

Finally she had for arms shriveled
stumps which dangled loosely from her
humped back.

She drooled, belched, and grunted
through her toothless gums, spilling forth
sounds no self-respecting hog would claim
and sending forth a rank aroma surpass-
ed only by her penetrating body odor.

I'll never forget that moment when
she first entered the auditorium in
Chambers for the Friday night concert.
As she walked down the aisle to claim
her first row seat, the whole room broke
into bedlam.

Stomachs reeled; boys cried out in hor-

Most girls were so insulted and disil-
lusioned that they started packing im-
mediately, anxious to remove them-
selves from such a polluted atmosphere.

Well, anyway, by Saturday morning
the weekend was over, the Saturday
night concert cancelled and the campus
virtually vacated, with only the skeletons
of broken dreams remaining behind. The
unforgivable had been done: the perfect
“pig” had been brought deliberately,
shattering all social and aesthetic tradi-
tions among the Davidson elite.

When I took Olga back that night I
kissed her gently and apologized for what
had happened. She looked at me rather

wistfully with tears in her eyes, her cigar
hanging wetly from her lips, and without
a sound vomited all over me. I guess that
was her little way of saying thank you to
me and to the boys back at school.

and went other places to catch up on their reading. ine. Ugliness generally runs rampant blob, huge breasts yess ee ge amoun- ror and disbelief; girls either fainted or The reader is expecting a moral from _
The warring elements in the townspeople continued among fifth _— ts, but with tain of flab which r abdominal rushed out in shock. No one could com- _ this, I suppose, so 1 won’t disappoint him:
their animosity. Ja-zazz had brought discord and oS was just was com- cavity in unusual little uneven mounds prehend that anything of such ugliness Beauty without the ugly is a meaningless
destroyed harmony, but he had eliminated that 75 p ting iremendoudy. giving her the general appearance of a could invade such a precious time as a thing, but with the Olga is indeed non-
percent. Here I suppose a description would be sack of flashlights. Davidson weekend. existent.
