FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

2 Roundballers Romp;

’Cats Face Big Games
With Coming Contests

By PAUL MARION
Davidsonian Sports Weiter

The Wildcat roundballers face a tough schedule the remainder of the month

in hopes of maintaining or improving on t

Lefty's Cagers travel to Char-
leston, S. C. and then: Chariles-
ton, W. Va. next week for
conference matches with The
Citadel and West Virginia, be-
fore returning home for an
engagement with Presbyterian
College before the exam break.

After exams the ‘Cats meet
East Carolina here and then
take on Wake Forest in Greens-
boro. February begins with a
trip to Lexington, Va., the V.
M.1. game and then a return to
the Coliseum for George Wash-
ington.

Although Presbyterian, East
Carolina, and George Washing-
ton should present no great
problems, The Citadel, West
Virginia, and Wake Forest are
considered “key games."

The Citadel whom Davidsan
plays Monday, has surprised
everyone by compiling an im-
pressive 9-3 record and beating
West Virginia in West Virginia.
The Bulldogs are led by 646
Dick Martini and 6-5 Jim Mec-
Curdy, who averaged a com-
bined 27 points per game last
year.

The ‘Cats take on West Vir-
ginia in Charleston, W. Va..
Thursday. The Mountaineers
have won seven of their eight-
game series with Davidson and
beat the Wildcats 75-73 last

year in Morganton.

Returning from last year’s
team are 67 Marty Lentz, 6-8
Bob Camp and playmaker Ricky
Ray. West Virginia has posted
a 7-3 record thus far this year.

Presbyterian visits Johnston
Gym on January 18 and the
Wildcats should have no sweat
in downing the hopeless Blue
Hose. A loss to Charlotte Col-
lege and a 60-point defeat by
The Citadel have been the high
spots of the season for a team
that starts three freshmen.

Ironically, Presbyterian has
never lost to Davidson in bask-
etball, having won the only
game played between the two
schools, 37-30 in 1960.

The Red and Black return
from exams with a home game
against East Carolina on Jan.
uary 28. The Pirates have a
6-3 record and depend upon
‘Captain Bill Brogdon and 6-4
Jerry Woodside, who averaged
148 points per game last year.
In their last encounter, David-
son won by a slender 105-45
margin.

January 30 brings Wake
Forest's Demon Deacons in the
Greenboro Coliseum. Although
the 'Cats won the first contest
this vear, Bones McKinney will
have his boys ready for this

ESE sss

HOLIDAY QUOTES

“We managed to stay within reach until
Davidson began to run. If J had those horses,
I'd run, too.”—Virginia Coach Bill Gibson af-
ter his team lost, 86-74.

“Virginia has a well disciplined team. They

eir number ten national ranking.

one.

Bob Leonard, 65 Richard
Herring, 66 Ronny Watts, and
sophomore Jim Boshart have
directed the Deacons to a 5-5
season and helped throw a
scare into Duke before drop-
ping a close 91-86 contest to
the Blue Devils.

V.M.I. entertains Lefty's char-
ges February 2 in Lexington,
Va., in hopes of avenging their
earlier loss at Johnston Gym.
Captain Joe Kruszuski, Charlie
Schmaus, and Jeff Gausepohl
are the standouts of this year’s
4-6 team.

George Washington invades
the Coliseum on the fifth of
Feruary. Their 3-7 record may
improve if Mark Clark, Rich
Duquest, and 6-5 Kenny Legins
continue to improve.

FOGLEMAN

Tennis Coach Harry Fogle-

man wil] travel to Colorado

Springs, Colorado next month

for a meeting of the U; S.

Lawn Tennis Association, Feb.
3-6.
Fogleman, who serves on
three national
the USLTA, will present be-
fore the meeting a vlan he
has devised ‘for a nation-wide
junior tennis circuit in the
summer, with tournaments
held every week and leading
eventually to a national champ-
ionship tournament.

committees of |!

DON DAVIDSON REBOUNDS

(Photo by Kennedy)

Holiday Action Before His Injury

Kappa Sigs, Delts Lead IMAC

|

|
|
|

:

Spiders, Violets Fall

By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s cagers burst
out of first-half handcuffs
last night before a crowd of
10,000 in New York's Mad-
ison Square Garden and
came from behind to defeat
New York University’s Vio-
lets 82-73.

Playing without the services
of Don Davidson all through
the first half and during several
minutes of the second period,
the Wildcats got off to a slow
start, not scoring their first
field goal until 3:37 had passed.
NYU took quick advantage of
the Southerners’ sluggishness
and their own height to jump
ahead, but two jump shots by
Davidson guard Charlie Marcon

' and two free throws cut the

margin to 22-21.

Just seconds later, however,
at 5:45 to play, the Violets had
widened the gap to 30 21. Day-
idson managed to bound back,
however, and closed the NYU
lead to 3—-39-36—at the horn.

The second -half began with
Davidson matching the Violets
goal for goal and performing

| much as in the’ last part of the.

first half—until Coach Lefty
Driesell decided to let Don
Davidson try out the foot he
had injured against Alabama
December 28. It was, then that
the ‘Cats, switching from a
man-to-man to a modified zone
defense to aid Davidson, began
to explode, and a three-point
play by: Fred Hetzel tied the
score with slightly over twelve
minutes to play.

Two quick steals by the visit-
ors gave them a 60-55 edge
over the still-shocked NYU
cagers before the Violets could
settle down to try to regain
the lead. As time slipped away,

ed in 18 points. Barry Teague
hit on 6 out of 7 free throws,
all in the crucial second half,
and 4 field goals for his total
of 16.

Hetzel was held to 12 points
on 4 shots from the floor and 4
fram the line; Davidson col-
lected 6 points and Paul Briggs
had 4.

For the New York University
hardwood men, 6-8 junior Ray
Bennett scored 22 points, but
was followed closely by 6-1
sophomore Mal Graham with
21.

Davidson's basketball
machine painted red and black
Stripes all over another op-
ponent last Monday night as
the Spiders of the University
of Richmond succumbed 97-67.

Commented Davidson mentor
Lefty, “Hetzel looked truly
great tonight, and Snyder is
really being tough. Snyder's
doing an outstanding job on
defense, outside shooting, and
rebounding. If lie keeps on
playing like he is now, I'd say
he’s a good pick for the AH-
American team."

Even though Davidson lost
the, ball three times in the
first two minutes, a 2-2 tie
with 18:18 left, was the closest
they allowed the Spiders to
come before beginning to add
to an ever-widening margin.
Davidson's man-to-man press
seemed to work miracles in
the first minute of the contest,
for when the clock ticked off
11:45, the ‘Cats had exploded
to a 22-11 lead.

Lefty was obviously not en-
tirely satisfied, however for he
was rapidly dictating comments
to His bench scribe even as the

played a good game. We p ayed a little bet- By NEVILLE PATTERSON they- hove will be a successful Graham and Tom Caldwell STANDINGS however, Davidson's defense, ‘Cats were boosting the spread
ter.’’"—Lefty Driesell. Davidsonian Sports Writer season. John Barrow led the pumped in 6 each, Kappa Sigs 2.0 with the aid of a tremendous to 14 points.

a . * . ‘es With the IMAC basketball winners with 14 points, follow | The Phi Gams came back ; ° effort by Don Davidson, held When the smoke had clear-

These referees down here aren't in shape. season barely two weeks ed closely by Ronnie Hunt's [2. Strong against the Independents Phi Delts 2-0 | fast, and the University became ed away, Hetzel had 37, points

Our conference (Mid-American) starts em old, the Kappa Sigs and the ,, ; ma and upset them in the second Sigma Chis 10 | desperate. Davidson's machine from 71.5% of his field goals
nd keeps the young ones, but these . Lindsey Collins added 7, Wayne g ;

young a cep young Pine Phi Delts have moved into a ris . KA’ .o | then began to click relentlessly and 87.5% of his free throws,

't k up with the action. Look at : ‘ Rhodes 6 and Alien Johnson 5 half, 50-43. Jim Hyder led the s 1 ; . , ;

guys can tee P F ‘etar h tie for first place, both lly with 16. John Littl Indepenaents 9.i | and widened the margin to an plus 13 rebounds. Snyder hit

that! Pitful!’—Ohio Univ. Assistant Coac teams having 2-0 records. {FT the Delts. rally with 16. John Little got 82-73 viclory spread. for 20 points and captured. 9

Kermit Blosser. | ® The Kappa Sigs, led by Buddy _./@" Brown of the Pikas led 10 and Jim Pnipps 11 for the — Sigina Nus 24 Final tallies showed David- rebounds, while Marcon scored

i i h, Left Dubose’s 14 points, downed the all scorers with 21, and Wayne winning Gams. Pi Kapps 1-1 {son hitting 30 out of 62 field 4. Briggs, 10. Stone, 8, St. Clair,

Jim (Ohio U. head coach)—Yeah, Letty, sera si hs Nus 5B33 Pete Mangum and Larry Outlaw Gary Marlin had 15 for the Phi Gams 3-1 | goal aitempts (484%) and 22 4, and Teague and Squier 2
well, I... ‘ ’ ke a bit of dif ort se Re ond Garrison as. 2¢d¢d six apiece for the Pikas. Independents, followed by Mon- = ATO's 0-9 | out of 30 free throws (73.3%). cach.

Lefty—Well, it doesn’t make a bit of an a ym : , “pain ain roe Gilmour's 13 and David Dick Snyder Jed the Wildcats Tom Green was high scorer
ference fo me. We usually take the white, but sisted Dubose by adding 8 ponts The Delts extended their win Jennings 7. George Miller, sus- Betas 0-2 | vith 26 points. but Charlie ‘for the visitors with 18 points
we can flip if you want. each. Stu Burness, Bill Crane streak to two games by beat- don , Pikas 0-2 i points. but Charlie ‘for the visitor: 18 points,

, hat means we'll and Tucker Laxton each hit for. ing the SAE‘s 39-30. Buzzy pended on a trapeze from the an Marcon. who fouled out with and Spiders Tom Tenwick. and

Jim—OK, then, I guess tha f int Parker had 16 points, John "¢W Press box, led the cheer- SPE's 0-2 | 1.38 left, played one of the best Spike Welsh poured in 16 and

pay te Well what about the court? our poin's: Fagg 8 and John Barrow and ing. SAE's 0-2 games of his career and pour 13 points respectively.
7 » . Sigma Nu Bill Barnett was the .

im—Let’ Arthur Hunt 7 each.

Jim—Let’s see, I wa. mo + ‘ game's leading scorer with 20 urea

Lefty—We usually take that end the first ee ere .
half, but it doesn’t matter a bit to me, we can and Arthur Clark added 6 more A strong téependent team heeeenennnenall rc -
flip if you wanna. jor the Nus. fought ; on aera ny ome |

sity Sorry: gotta run, See ya. i By beating the Pikas 55-42. cisely contested game. Gary i

Blosser (Ohio Assistant Coach)—Gee, that the Phi Delts were at least one- Martin led the scoring with 15
guy isn’t superstitious, is he! twelth the way through what markers. Dave Johnson and

nn : +Tom Scott pumped in 10 each ry
r] and Frank Crothers hit for 6 #
Wildkittens Take Two vce |
i i e S The Pi Kapps thrashed the
; SPE's 55-31 behind a balanced Olds
, | offensive attack. Paul Curlee
In Past Week’s Action 228.2%
: Harold Kernodle 11 and George
Blount 9 for the Pi Kapps.
By DON TYLER
Y The Sigma Chis proved they
Davidsonian Sports Writer
. . f had a club to beat when they
Davidson frosh opened the new year with a victory over the cadets ot Ed- won over the Phi Gams, 49-39.
wards Military Institute by a score of 71-69. Rustiness acquired during the , ris Basil Hicks led the Crusaders ;
mas layover was evident, but behind Scott Sinnock’s 15 points, Bobby Lane’s 13,} with 17 points. Geordie Mueller by
and 12 points apiece for Rodney Knowles and Tom Youngdale, plus a half court} sna Joel Willaimson each col-
zone press the Kittens squeaked by to a narrow victory. lected 12 points and Paul Reic-
F ‘ at “thi -| hardt came tarough with 6
The following Monaay night Holland asserts that “this could and Tom Clayton are all aver:
was another story as the frosh, well be the best freshman team aging around 3 points a game} more. John Little led the Phi ‘
a j i i ” Holland for an overall team average of ;Gams with 11 points. Rick
t f demption, rolled over i0 Davidson history. ollan : 4 ¢ ;
out for redempion. believes that ‘the best previous 87.6 points per game. Brand added 7 and Richard
Wingate Junior College by the oo oig by a freshman team ——— .
seore of 101-66. Once a8aIN (neid by this year’s seniors) in- -
Knowles, Youngdale, and Lane cluded 3 losses. so this year's ad
led the way with 31. 22, and 20 team could well bettter that.” a
points respectively - Ce a cine “No one man has stood out oor
also poured nm poin above the rest. They've all done
‘to the victory. ‘

The Kittens were without the
talents of forward Sinnock for
most of the game after he
sprained an ankle in the first
period. The injury was not seri-
ous however and Coach Holland
expects Sinnock to be ready to
go in the game with East Caro-
lina Saturday.

The frosh record now stands
at 7 wins and 2 losses and Coach

a fine job and I’m quite proud °

of them” states Holland.

All five starters are averaging
in double figures. Knowles leads
the way with a 20.3 points per
game. He is followed by Young-
dale with a 16.9 average, Lane
with a 15.4 average. Sinnock
with a 14.8 average and Clifton
with an 11.0 average.

Pinky Hatcher. George Leight

— a RN ewe mariner
CONFERENCE STANDINGS - e
Conference All Games , DRIESELL PL ors by Kennedy) wy »
WwW t Pet. wiles In Richmond Runaway
Davidson — 4 oO 1.000 WY .
Virgini 6 1 857 7 3 : Rendezvous in Cho rlotte at Whoosh! What you almost saw above was the wooliest number in years: Oldsmobile’s 4-4-2. Sporting (and
West Virginia ° BEST Pizz A WEST of ITALY standard) equipment includes a 400-cu.-in. 345-hp V-8 mill backed with 4-barrel carb and acoustically
Citadel 5 1 .833 9 3 Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads tuned, chambered twin pipes. And “sticky” red-line tires. And front and rear stabilizers, heavy-duty
George Washington 2 3 + .400 3 7 — CHOICE STEAKS — frame, springs and shocks that make lean and sway mere memories. Three transmission availabilities, too,
: 2 4 333 3 9 including 3-speed synchromesh, 4-on-the-floor and Jetaway automatic. Better hurry over to your Olds
: Furman —_—— ] A Roma Dealer's. The 4-4-2 is a restless beast! (And it’s the lowest priced high-performance car in America!)
2 William & Mary 2 4 2333 4 8
%
Richmond 1 4 = .200 3. 6«C«8 Ri stor an . '
vn 15 M7 4 7. pustorantt 65t0OLDSMOBILE
Va. Tech @ 1 000 = 3 6 @!| Phone 376-2576 1540 West Bivd. at Remount Rd. Try 6 Rocket in Action .. Lach to Cide for the New!

