Che Daujdganian

WHE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chiel

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1965

(Letters to “he editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Strangulation

If all mankind minus ene, were of one opinion, and only one. person were of the
contrary opinion, mankind would be ne more justified in sitencing thet one person,
than’ he, if he had the power, would be justified in silencing mankind.

A tllencing of discussion is an essumption of infallibllity.

Davidson's faculty assumed a prop.
er position of leadership in Nor
Carolina education at its January
meeting. Acting on the recommend-
ation of the local chapter of the
American Association of University
Professors (AAUP), the faculty over-
whelmingly approved a_ resolution
calling for the revocation of the
“Speaker Ban Law.”

The faculty's move merits com-
mendation. And equally worthy of
praise are the efforts of a small
group of Davidson students who re-
vealed this week that they are seek-
ing to work. in conjunction with the
AAUP.

s s * *

The “Speaker Ban Law” has led a
brief yet stormy life. Passed two
years ago, the law has been castigated
by educational officials and news
media alike. Nevertheless, as the Gen-
eral Assembly convened again this
week, revocation appeared unlikely.
Wary politicians mused over the in-
numerable ° possibilities opponents
would have for misconstruing the in-
tent of a vote against the act.

Needed is a strong display of pub-
lic opposition to the “Gag Law.” And
the opposition must be articulated
clearly and loudly now if there is to
be any hope for favorable action in
this session.

Our attention is not drawn to the
question of the legality of the “Speak-
er Ban Law.” The legality of the act
has been incisively challenged by stu-
dents of law. And no well-founded de-
fenses have been offered in response.

Rather our concern is as members
of an educational community. Actual
restraint following from the law has
been limited, but the threat of re-
straint is widespread and frightening.

The “Gag Law”—which, in effect,
is a directive to officials at state in-
stitutions—was passed quickly and
quietly in the closing minutes of the
last legislative session. No educational
leaders were consulted; indeed, they
were not even informed of the move.
And yet the very nature of the re-
lationship of state government to edu-
cation was being overhauled.

More important than the curtail-
ment of free speech is the threat to
academic freedom. The late Alexan-
der Meiklejohn, once president of
Amherst College, explained:

College . . . is essentially, not
accidentally, a place of freedom.
It is a place in which the human
mind is seeking deliverance from
its bonds—the bonds of partial
knowledge and self-interest. It
has no hope of fully achieving
such freedom, and yet this end
defines its work. Men form their
opinions from partial knowledge;
the college must know, so far
as may be known, all that the

Quietus

Number two in the distinguished
Reynolds Lecture Series for this year
stole quietly onto compus last week.
Like Mark Van Doren before him,
Dr. Eugene Wigner successfully avoid-
ed the perils of overexposure through
ingenious scheduling and a remark-
able performance by the college’s
public relations organs.

No advance notice crossed the
DAVIDSONIAN’s desk; no drums, no
trumpets—not even a crudely fash-
ioned poster heralded the coming of
the 1963 winner of the Nobel Prize
in Physics.

The morning announcement sheet
is not the most reliable avenue of

Associate Editors Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg

Rick von Unwerth

Tim Kimrey

Managing Editors —...... John Todd
Mike Harrington

Asst. Managing Editor ... John Bailey
News Editor _._..... Rufus Adair
Feature Editor Bob Strauser
Sports Editor Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor — Bill Briggs
Circulation Manager .. Malcolm Lane

From ON LIBERTY
John Stuart Mill

human mind has thought and
learned which bears on these
opinions. Men fashion their
thoughts according as their in-
terests and activities have mold-
ed and shaped their minds; the
college may have no special in-
terests shaping it. It must in this
sense stand apart, viewing all
interests of men alike with equal
eye, and measuring each in terms
of every other and the whole. It
is a place of knowledge. and of
criticism.

Certainly there are limits which
must be observed. David Fellman ex-
pressed this concisely when he said:
“Democracy has no obligation of any
kind to commit suicide.” But Fellman
quickly added: “Short of the point
of incitement to crime, our system
must rely upon the free flow of
ideas.”

Meiklejohn pursued the point fur-
ther:

What then is academic free-
dom? It is, it seems to me, the
very quality of a college. The
question whether or not a col-
lege is free is meaningless. An
institution which is not intel-
lectually free is not a college,
whatever else it be. States may
be servants of partial insights
and partial interests, and so may
factories and corporations, and
even schools of medicine; but not
so colleges. A college is our so-
cial and individual striving to es-
cape the bonds which the world’s
work would fix upon us. It is the/
search for freedom from _ our-
selves.

For an educational institution to at-
tempt to function within a framework
of certain preconceived notions is im-
possible: education in the purest and
noblest sense cannot exist in such
environs.

“Any system of thought that we
accept as absolute—‘This is it’—pre-
cludes, to the extent that we accept
it, any further willingness to search
or to learn in its area.” The free and
open exposition of all ideas—no mat-
ter how foreign, no matter how re-
pulsive—must be continued on the
campus of North Carolina if ‘“edu-
cation” is to continue in its truest
sense. And the administration of edu-
cation must be left in the hands of

the educators if “education” is to con-
tinue in any sense of the word.

Of Vows

Henry Steele Commager, the noted
American historian and professor,
when he heard of the Davidson “vow”
recently, reportedly responded: “My
God, man! What do the Jewish pro-
fessors do?”

communication; neither is a letter
from Dean Johnston's office stuffed
into faculty mailboxes five days ahead
of time, and during the exams to boot.

Those of us who happened to see
the routine announcement of Dr. Wig-
ner’s lecture in the Charlotte Observer
were aware, at least, of his brief
sojourn on campus Monday. The rest
of us learned after the fact, in chapel
Tuesday.

As a result of this careful plan-
ning, our famous “student apathy’
didn’t even get a chance to rebuff
the distinguished visitor from Oak
Ridge.

Copy Editor —... Don Davis
Asst. Copy Editors Bill Aitken
Calvin Zon

Photographers Sam Smith
Tom Thel

Erskine Sproul

Cartoonists _ . Jack Lingle
Rufus Hallmark

Lou Hill
Asst. Business Mgr. — Irvine Welling
Advertising Mgr. --—-- Bob Cameron

Entered as Second Cless Matter at the Pest Office at Davidson, Nerth Cerolina,
under Act of Merch 3, 1879.

Ignorance Abroad

4ce

om
ome swt MEMO TATE oie Gem oe 8 8

veo DY Hill

tor cow
ce oom
.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

a,
ome Tf cee

Mixon Political Opinions
Draw Foreign Criticisms

Dear Editor:

I wish to thank Monsieur
Mixon (ef. “World Travel Re-
actions’ etc.) for his personal
observations on European life.
I would like to take issue with
him on several points, but
since I have unfortunately not
been able ¢o travel so ex-
tensively, I must limit my
comments to his reactions to
Germany and the German peo-
ple.

To be sure, it is one thing
to make observations, and
quite another to construct
generalizations upon them. It
seems to me that Ms. Mixon has
erected several faulty super-
Structures upon a rather small
number of observations.

According to Ms. Mixon.
other Europeans, notably those
further solth, rebuke the
Germans with “cultural achieve-
ments are more important than
highways and factories.“ Here
I content myself to say that
I simply can not understand
the sense of the complaint.
Those who doubt the signifi-
eance of the German cultural
tradition and achievements, past
and present, I leave to the cap-
able hands of Dr. Wruck (and
may he have mercy upon you!)

GERMAN MENTALITY?

“Aber Jetzt Rommen wir vom
Regen in die Traufe!" That
was bad enough, but the at-
tempt to characterize the Ger-
man “mentality” I find to be
an utter disaster. In the first
place, I feel justified in chal-
lenging Ms. Mixon’s qualifica-
to handle this most complex
question.

I judge from his article that
he has spent only a limited time
in Germany and has seen rath-
er a small area. I also believe
he speaks French but not Ger-
man. How much contact has
Ms. Mixon actually had with
the people the attempts to char-
acterize?

I would be a bit suspicious of
any attempt to sweepingiy char-
acterize a group of people from
their behavior crossing the
street, even if the survey were
scientifically conducted. But
Ms. Mixon’s most unscientific
jumping-to-a-conclusion borders
between the ridiculous and the
utterly ridiculous. He has in-

Dear Editor:

As a German student of the
Philipps—Universita acquaint-
ed with some students of your
exchange program, I have read
the article “World Travel Re-
actions” with great interest,
especially those paragraphs con-
cerning my own country. That
is the reason why I am writing
this letter.

At the first reading I was
disturbed and took some time
to consider the questions Mr.
Mixon tried to outline. I would
say that I agree with many of
the facts he has mentioned but

deed himself ignored a few
caution and stop lights, and so
has only himself to blame if
he gets run down by a Volks-
wagen!

It is after all, a very real
question whether such a thing
as a German “mentality” actual-
ly exists. Different regions pre-
sent varying pictures of what
a German is like, and German
youth differs greatly from the
adult society—two of the most
obvious of many factors of
variance. Furthermore, it seems
to me, one who wants to under-
stand and describe a nation of
people must first come to know
many individuals, and not mere-
ly a shaliow stereotype, before
he begins to induct general
characteristics.

Monsieur Mixon must ‘have
realized that the conclusions he
has so haphazardly drawn are
not idle or inconsequential ones.
When he mentions “the ter-
rifie German mentality of doing
only what you are told to do”
and speaks of the Germans as
“pedantic, non-questioning fol-
lowers,” one’s thoughts in-
evitably turn to the last 60
years of German history, and
more especially to the last
World War and the Fascist
dictatorship.

A blanket smear of the Ger-
mans in this fashion, without
the slightest mention of the
maze of historical, “economical,
social and political questions in-
volved, is unworthy of a ser-
ious student. Moreover, it
smacks of a determinism which
actually frees the Germans of
any guilt in these events.

After all, if the Germans were
and are saddled with the ‘‘men-
tality’ Ms. Mixon describes,
then only fate is to blame that
they followed Katser, Reich-
skanzler and Fuehrer, and any
democratic experiment in Ger-
many, past or present, is
doomed, a fool’s waste of time,
money, lives and the world’s
peace.

Therefore, if in later articles
of this “Innocents Abroad” ser-
ies, the Germany “mentality”
is mentioned, I must take what
follows “cum  grano_ salis”
(oder mit einem Fass Bier!).

AUTHORITY AND PEOPLE
The question of the re-

lationship between authority
and people in German states of
the past and present—I assume
the possibility of change—is an
important one, but one to be
soberly and carefully approach-

ed. The follédwing estimation
stems from the pen of Pro-
testant Pastor Dietrich Bon-
hoeffer, who in 1945 was exe-
cuted by the Nazis for subver-
sive activities against the re-
gime and against the person of
the Fuehrer:

“Who would wish to disagree
with the German that.he has
achieved again and again in
duty, mission and vocation, the
utmost in bravery and sacrifice
... But hereby he had mis-
understood the world; he had
not realized that. his readiness
to subordinate himself, to sacri:
fice for the sake of his mission,
could be misused to an evil
end. ...I had to become ap-
parent that the Germans lack-
ed a crucial, fundamental reali-
zation, the concept of the free,
responsible act against voca-
tion and mission.” (my trans-
lation)

IMPORTANT QUESTIONS

Have potentially undemo
cratic habits and patterns of
thinking existed in the Ger-
man people to a substantial or
dangerous degree? Do they exist
today? How are these habits
and patterns caused and con-
ditioned, historically and other-
wise? How, as growing, living
entities, have they tended to
develop and change? And, most
important, how might such
tendencies be altered or re-
medied? These are questions
with which modern Germans—
politicians, political and social
scientists, students and the
average man, ‘are grapping.

From my few months here it
appears quite obvious to me
that the Germans are still
actively engaged in the pro-
cess of learning from and
atoning for the third Reich,
Ms. Mixon’s fantastic accusation
-they aren't “the least sorry”
—to the contrary. But with this
point I should like to begin in
another letter.

Hank Taylor
Marburg, Germany

FROM THE BACK OF THE BUS

Plato's Elements Meet
‘Ram-bam' And Greeks

By CHARLES RAMBERG.
Davidsonien Associate Editor

The soul of man is divided into three elements—
the appetitive, the spirited, and the rational—the philos-
opher said over two millenia ago, and the harmony of
those three parts is to be called justice. Plato never
heard of Greek letter social fraternities, but the tools
he used to understand men can be used to decide what
are the valid purposes of a fraternity system.

Hopefully, the college will provide for the satis-
faction of the rational element, not merely by statin
the student’s desire for facts but dlso by pointing o
ways to keep under control the potentially disruptive
spirited and appetitive elements.

As we near the conclusion of the shennanigans of
Greek Week tonight, it is difficult to deny that the fra-
ternities do not at least occasionally obstruct the formal
education process. It is probably safe to say that fra-
ternities, allowing for differences in individual mem-
bers, pretty frequently get in the way of education by
creating competing demands for the student’s time.

The second part of the Platonic soul, the spirited
element, is nurtured by a program of extracurricular
activities such as athletics, publications, student govern-
ment, etc. that provide honors for the best competitors.
It is possible that Davidson fraternities help develop the
spirited element by encouraging their members to par-
ticipate in the extra-curricular program.

The third element, the appetites, may or may not
exist only to be controlled by the rational element. The
important point for us is that the appetites must be con-
sidered. The detriment fraternities work on the educa-
tion process might justify their abolition if Davidson
College had not so completely ignored the problem of

roviding some minimal satisfaction for the appetites—
1. @., a social program.

The college’s pussyfooting on the alcohol issue is
sufficient indication that it is not willing to provide an
on-campus social program that will satisfy student de-
sires, The college can hardly be expected to circumvent
its own rules by providing off-campus social life, so some
other institution is needed to minister to social needs.

Fraternities, then, do seem to have an important
role to play on this campus, particularly in light of
the college’s refusal to provide the social outlet for
appetitive energies.

At this point, it is time to stop abusing Plato and
consider whether restrictive fraternity membership poli-
cies are necessary to maintenance of a fraternity sys-
tem with the limited goal of providing a social outlet.

We think not. Except in the last maudlin moments
of Rush Week, when tears flow and bull flies, it would
be difficult to find a fraternity man on this campus who
would -characterize fraternal brotherhood as the mysti-
cal union that some seem to think it is. The truth of
brotherhood is to be found somewhere between bare
tolerance and fraternal love, making brotherhood not
unlike other human relationships.

___We believe, then, that a system of 100 per cent
bidding would not impair the ability of fraternities to
Provide a social outlet that all students ought to have
access to.

s *

__When we wrote a letter to the Charlotte Observer
chiding the professors of this college for turning their
attention from the faculty vow to the state speaker-ban
law, we were sure that some local fundamentalist would
assure us that there is nothing wrong with a require-
ment that is based on the assumption that one of the
many religious doctrines (Christianity) is the truth.

We hardly expected to find a Davidson alumnus
supporting the faculty vow requirement on the basis
that tiere is no doubt that Christianity is the truth. But
the Rev. Joe 5. Hopper of Decatur, Ga. was so anxious
to let us know how he felt that he sent us a copy of his
letter to the Observer. The Observer chose not to bore
its readers with Mr. Hopper’s scriptural references to
the dire fate that awaits unbelievers.

We are. happy to hear from such an unimpeachable
source as Mr. Hopper, a former Presbyterian minister
to Korea, that Christianity is the truth, and “that outside
of faith in Jesus Christ there is no salvation.’

At the close of his letter he voiced once again the
often-heard doctrine that a private institution such as
Davidson College has every “right” to insist on the faculty

The college’s “right” is hardly the question at issue.
Rather the question is one of whether the college “ought”
to damage academic freedom at this institution with such
a requirement. Of course, that question is of no import
for those who agree with Mr. Hopper that the purpose of
Davidson College is “Christian training” rather than the
liberation of minds.

* * * s

Alpha Eta, the society for the most unsavory char-
acters on the Davidson campus, grows larger day by
day as the SAE's who originated this select group and
gave it its true name (obscene and therefore unprint-
able) find more candidates who meet the exciting stand-
ards. ,

We were initially flattered when we learned that
we had been elected to head the AH list. But after con-
sidering the weight of the honor, we have decided that
we are unable to do justice to it, either by providing
leadership for Alpha Eta or by setting a proper example.

So ti at Alpha Eta will lack neither leadership nor
examples, e turning our duties over
Dan Hanks, Charlie Smith and Chip Tate. '0 a troika of

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

German Student Blasts Mixon's Travelogue

not with the way he interprets would criticize the methods of
and with the conclusions which reaching this judgment.

he has drawn. To have a non-confroming op-
In one paragraph he-com- inion is said to be a character-
pared the French and German istic sign of individualism, but
“‘mentalities’ concluding that judgement normally means
the French are individuals, do- more; it means objectivity, and
ing always the unexpected and must be based on a sound un-
the Germans are just the derstanding of the problem.
opposite. We are, I quote Mr. That is unfortunately what I do
Mixon, “a nation of pedantic, not find in this article.
non-questioning followers.”
doubt whether such a thing as To me I feel that he had
a “national mentality” exists, his opinion about my country
and, to my mind, it is in this when he entered, extracting
case an inadmissable generali- only facts to support it. Read-
zation. I do not wish to criticize ing his erticle reminds me of
his personal opinion, but I cliches but not of critical travel

reactions; I tend to think that
these cliches might have been
taken from some events of
German history.

Indeed he may easily have
come to them by considering
some of our questionable Ger-
man traditions; but these are
not the only ones we have, and
they are far from being symp-
tomatic for our “mentality.”
Other political and cultural tra-
ditions support other conclu-
sions.

I wonder if Mr. Mixon is well
informed about the many var-
ous political and cultural in-

fluences of our history, but it
seems to me absolutely im-
Possible to characterize a “men-
tality” from the standpoint of
some—it is a pity to say—
superficial first impressions.
Another questionable thesis is
what he says about cultural
achievements and their rela-
tionship to modern industry
production. Mr. Mixon seems
to suggest that there is an
inevitable conflict between the
two. If that is true, then it is
a real problem for both Ger-
mans and Americans.

fHHans-Rudolph Sattler
Marburg, Germany
