EIGHT PERMANENT
Committees Prepare

vam Trustees’ Transactions

sagt

By WALT DRAKE on students to msume alco. ve re 10 e bt After discussion, they >
y ! ) : r discussion, they repor:

Davidsonian Feature Writer a hk oe = \ sample 0 ) 1 ed ndings and recommen
away form e colles impus, follows ) : nit the Truetac ni:
Preparing much. of the Waewer as a memo ) : ) | ‘ a ti oe ty
: voted to modify
business for meetings of ‘8° spon red ) R i I ulty’ decisoin by allow
Davidson's Board of Trus- “'%. 1 d A I lelayed rush. Fe
te 4 es tees are several permanent A ns ) { a iditign. ot t }
ee ae Sa ccee ind temporary committees Religious and Social Lif : ither charter comm
DR. J. MCDOWELL RICHARDS (Staff Photo by Thel) COMposed of members of Chur 1 Alun ; suild sil Gaui
j : the board. ips Committe I
‘The Role Of The Trustees Is Generally Considered To Apply To Major Policies’ “ - ee met “probab view the rb he iP
\] “ \ VY have present fraternity : te . ; ‘ = ( ! i mcu
ta % mu . ’ r ' ws Unt " cording to Fred. Sack i ? } ) mar ui nmitt
ichards Tells Board’s Role: =). 3.) =" pm cei
. m oi Board ot eek — cage a : ’ i ‘ Pe sii sp. Cae
tet call a meeting: of any Kasia oday necung Pp Get i ‘ i ere i on et Resolutions and the
> +, rf

the Committee
isu r

To Apply To Major Policies’ oo ee i oe ee
. “ee eal i é i ‘ e Faculty on the Cor
e since he last meeting of the fr i H I
2 Renanedlingpanic shoes BS j jark yn rious parti erring of Honorary Degrees
Each comm I Mace Board of Trustees’ on April 30, volved with. the fratern t 3 nmitt h WV ther t
a aeiaiines oe a a | ; he } i 11] committees have either two

and are working on an exten-' tion

By LOUIS LESESNE sem
: vn

Davidsonian Managing Editor ; They
_ The role of Davidson’s Trustees in the life of the a * - mnitveds ind pet pina
college should be a, quiet and generally indirect one, ac- Chr Aauidsonian ynmittes Other special 2 ~~ BH
cording to Dr. J. McDowell Richards, Board of Trustees — Se naccessibilli ty Often
ede ’rese \ , 0

president.

In a DAVIDSONIAN in As part of the
terview, Dr. Richards ex- overall direction
plained: “The role of the of the

soem orn REPORT vecesc=s:: Blurs Boards Actions

college, Dr. Richards in

trustees is generally consid- dicated that he expected the re
. . ? tT yr , ,
ered to apply to major poli- board to receive at its fall meet ra intl Y spare se nestle
cies, We don’t want to regu- ing the self-study program as rr ; sfc . ws £3 : , sige Davidsonian Associate Editor
p y < are ) ee ane )
late all the minor details information received. F HE BOARD prepare the sorts for to Thi kend David
a, aa ee vi ' a . ls weeKenc aviason
We will take no action but Board me 2 plays host to two guests. Of

which occur in the college’s
business.”
The ‘chairman explained that

will study it and probably make

recommendations at our spring

more immediate. concern to
the average Davidsonian

OF TRUSTEES ees
: tholic  Beverag vhich wa will be, of course, the dis

charge of his social obliga
tions to the local ladies of

» saw the trustees’ greatest in- meeting as to specific actions,”

fluence ir ee - the A
ience in its selection of the pr. Richards said of the study :
f the facults They met

administration, Although the which makes a 10-year projec 5 ! i

teanatel etn ait QiAlMliaeiaainn> sien: it tka saniata com anaaic ‘ot Ge Os PAGE THREE 7. dieuss:the faculty 's recent pro quality.

bers, “We are guided by our the college. “ ” - ao oak - ss! = ~ With h attentions so attach

choice of faculty members to a | : ay Sal ot sani else a

great extent by President (D. as [ ¢ ie. of ages:

G.) Martin's recommendations,” » rs d ; } the : Home ei
vd oO ilumni .and friends,

Dr. Richards explained.

Dr. Richards, who lives in At
lanta and is president of Colum-
bia Theological
spends approximately 10 days a
year devoted to Davidson busi-

Seminary,

ness.
INDIRECT WORK
“This time includes such ac-

tivities as trustee meetings,
and committee meetings. In ad-
dition, there’s a lot of indirect
work which I do. It would be
hard to estimate how much time
I spend on these activities,’’ he

said.
“lL come to Davidson when-

ever the administration feels
that I'm needed, or anytime I
think I can add any personal

contribution. Although it’s im- ©

possible for me to make it to all
committee meetings, I try to

come to any of a special na-—

ture,” he added.
PERSONAL READING
Dr. Richards explained that
this included activities such as
personal reading: “I try to do
a lot of reading about the life

Trustees of the
have gathered for per

than

Th troup, the
college,
haps more weighty matters

football and. after-game whoo

pee

Legal owners of the college,
the trustees individually and col-

lectively are for the most part |

little-known ahd little under-
stood by the Davidson student
body. For more than a few stu-
dents, unfortunately, the Trus-
tees are a group of men who
rather mystically appear two
times a year and for four days
rule the Davidson roost from
a world far apart.

The liberal cut system, the
abolition of the faculty oath,
the reinstatement of fall rush,
all come and go to the student
as machinations of a force far
removed.

Thus it is the purpose of this
report to reveal in a small way
the function and role of the
Trustees of this college.

In this page Louis Lesesne in-
terviews Dr. J. McDowell Rich-
ards, the president of the Trus
tees, about the role of the Trus
tees. Bob Holladay writes on
their general organization, and
Walt Drake discusses the func

(Staff Photo by Thel)
PRESIDENTS RICHARDS AND MARTIN

of the liberal arts college in gen- ‘
eral and Davidson in ane ADVISE DAVID: STYLE (Staff Photo by Thel) , tioning of committees, the basic Lead Busy Weekend
‘se? eal ceameaiieations “% AND CONSENT, SON B instruments for Trustee action

Trustees And Faculty Take Time Out For Pipeful And Cup Of Slater 7 spasms — neil uneimampiaaiiamien a .

keep in close contact with Dr.
Martin both by correspondence
and by telephone.”

“All the trustees read THE
DAVIDSONIAN as one way to
keep informed, especially as a
means of keeping in touch with
student sentiment. Of course, we
try to maintain personal con
tact with faculty members, too,”
he added.

The chairman $2.2
million grant by the Ford Foun
dation as playing a large part in
Davidson's future. “The grant
will allow us to expand in all
directions. We want to strive
not only for intellectual excel
ence, but for weil-rounded men
tal, moral and spiritual develop

ment.”
EXCELLENCE
‘In addition,” the

F.hodes Scholar from Davidson
continued, ‘the awarding of the
grant is recognition of excel.
lence in itself; it should serve
as a stimulus to greater excel

the

saw

former

lence.”

The chairman was optimistic
about the outlook for raising the
$5.5 million as part of the chal-
lenge grant, despite the fact
that ‘we're encountering prob-
lems because of the fund-raising
campaigns of so many other

worthy causes.”
“It was a feat to receive the

grant in the first place, and we
can give Dr. Martin much credit

for getting it. Now that we've
gotten this far, I'm certain we
can get the rest of the money.”

Fifty-One ‘Churchmen’

By BOB HOLLADAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The official purpose of the David-
son College Board of Trustees is to act
on programs initiated by the adminis
tration and faculty.

Taking this responsibility are 51
individuals, who are delegated by the
Presbyteries of North Carolina Synod,
two supporting presbyteries in Flor-
ida. Asheville Presbytery of Appala-
chian Synod, and the Alumni Associa-
tion.

The trustees themselves deter-
mine the numbers to be received from
any one presbytery, with major con-
sideration given to the support each
has provided to the —. Every

prospective Trustee must a mem-
ber of an Evangelical church.

MEET BIENNIALLY

The Trustees meet ordinarily
twice a year, with committee meet-
ings taking place at shorter intervals.
Possessing acting authority through-
out the year is an Executive Commit-
tee consisting of 15 members and
headed ex officio by the president and
secretary of the larger body.

All Trustees are kept abreast of
events during the year through such
publications as THE DAVID: ONIAN
and through special mailings from
the office of the President of the col-
lege. These mailings occur two or
three times a month and are especially
yseful when a controversial or delib-

‘FINAL AUTHORITY AND ADVISOR’

erative situation arises.
COMMITTEE WORK
When the possibility of a solid
step toward strengthening the college
presents itself and this step is of a non
controversial nature, the matter is re-
ferred to one of the committees set
up by the Trustees, to be worked into
a proposal for Trustee action.

While many such proposals spring
from the administration, the Trustees
may make additional suggestions and
advise the administration of more ef-
fective ways for achieving betier re-
sults than had been considered.

LEGAL OWNERS

Such a role is in line with the
Trustees’ position as legal! owners of
the college. At the time of Davidson's
founding, the State of North Carolina
granted a corporate charter to the col-
lege, and the Trustees are the hold-
ers of this charter.

As such they function in the
world of higher education in the way
that a board of trustees functions for
Ford Motor Company. They view from
a wider perspective than the college
any important procedural or policy
step and have ultimate authority over
what the final step will be.

They hire a president to function
as liaison with the college and are an-
swerable to the law for the conduct of
the college. In this way they serve as
a check upon the negligence and mal-

feasance that might hypothetically
arise in any self-directed enterprise.

—

THE PAUSE THAT REFRESHES

Serve As Davidson’s Owners

(Staff Photo by Thel)

Various Committees Met Last Night And Will Report Today
