The Havidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT SODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1965

(Letters to "he editor. do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Refreshing Approach

“That's not the kind of music |
want for a weekend. Why can’t we
have the Supremes—or at least Ma-
jor Lance?” Inevitably the gripes con-
tinue. And we cannot think of a more
appropriate time than Midwinters for
examining the efforts of the Inter-
fraternity Couricil this year. . .

Some time. must pass before we can
accurately evaluate the total effecti-
veness of this year’s IFC. But we can
make one asserfion now: the imagina-
tion of the group in general-and Presi-
dent. Rick von Unwerth in particular
—deserves a hand-blistering round
of applause.

‘The IFC has attempted to perch in-
side a newly carved niche this year,
and the fraternity representatives
have succeeded.

The complaints linger; the monoton-
ous weekend vanishes. “You can’t
please everyone all the time, but you

Lunatic Fringe’?

“I predict that if these policies do
not change we'll be fighting in Viet-
nam for a decade. And, at best we’ll
end up with a draw or a slow defeat.

“Secretary McNamara has made
four trips to Vietnam. This is the
third government they're on over
there. But our causalties continue.
But still the invaders, the Viet Cong,
operate from a privileged sanctuary.

“If, tomorrow afternoon, we ran
every guerrilla in South Vietnam back
to the North, we stil! wouldn’t have
settled anything. They could sneak
back in the very next day.

can try to satisfy each individual stu-
dent at least once during the year.”
Such has been the goal of the IFC
this year, a goal which is attained
this weekend.

Homecoming featured guitarist Sa-
bieas and folk singers Ian and Sylvia
while jazz artist Herbie Mann gave
the fall concert. Rock and roll fans
receive their serving with Martha and
the Vandellas tonight, while pop vo-
calist Julie London will perform to-
morrow night at Davidson's first for-
mal dance in over two years.

The scene? The mall of a surburban
Charlotte shopping center, another
IFC innovation prompted by ‘the lin-
gering odors and resounding acous-
tics of Davidson’s gymnasium. The
dance will be a success with student
support; without student backing it
will flop.

The same can. be said of the IFC.

“Also, under the present policies,
the civilian economy and population
of South Vietnam is being slowly
strangled to death. The whole country
is being conscripted, in effect—and
still there is no policy that sets a goal
of victory for all of this!

“Unless we want to bog down in
Vietnam forever and a day, or lose
it, we have got to take some action
that will actually force the Viet Cong
to give up the fight.”

Barry Goldwater made this state-
ment to the American Society of
Newspaper Editors in Washington,
D. C. on April 18, 1964,

Loosening The Noose

Davidson’s Young Republicans set
the pace for other campus organiza-
tions when they passed Wednesday
night a resolution calling for the re-

peal or modification of the North
Carolina “Speaker-Ban Law.”

The action becomes especially com-
mendable when the- community re-
alizes that the club’s stand is directly
opposed to that of the YR state con-
vention which met in Charlotte last
weekend.

Student Council also expressed its

Southern Bred

Tradition is a wonderful thing, and
we could use more of it. Everyone
can. We hear now, though, that the
South is dead and that we should sto
being childish, stop singing “Dixie,”
and throw away our Confederate flags.

We totally agree. This is not an
age for sentimental living, nor is it
an age for revered traditions. We
must come awake, we must change
with the times, and, most of all, we
must needs be realistic.

Let us then be done with all things
southern. We must face life squarely.

Let us begin by tossing jaded he-
roes of the South out. First must go
Washington, Jefferson, Henry, Cal-
houn, Whitney, the Houstons, Crock-
ett, and Bowie.

Then must go the Plantation
homes, Jamestown, Williamsburg, the

opposition to the “Gag Law” this week
thereby adding strength to the grow-
ing movement against the controver-
sial control measure.

In its brief existence the student
committee against the “Speaker Ban
Law,” approved by the local AAUP
this week, has made its presence
known. We commend the members of
the committee and urge all students
—as individuals and as groups—to
Join the difficult struggle to eradicate
the “Ban” from the statute books.

Alamo, the Battle of New Orleans,
Yorktown, the river Steamers, Mark
Twain, Robert E., and Stonewall J.

Yessir, throw ’em all out. William
and Mary can go (t’s too old any-
way. So can Spirituals and Ballads. *

an always sing “Carry me b
to Ole New Joisey."” my me back

Race riots are probably caused b
tradition, too. What the South needs
is more decent city parks. Like Cen-
tral Park, for example. Or Harlem.

B Golly, just think what it would
be like without traditions. We could
become industrialized, just like the
North. Then when we did, we could
be successful, too!

Without tradition, this nation
would be one big ulcer.

—KEast Carolinian
East Carolina College

RULE BRITANNA

The Christian Science Monitor

‘United States Should Join
British Commonwealth’

Richardson Scholar From England

By SIMON BLACKFORD

After spending nearly six months on the wrong side of the Atlantic, there are
certain conclusions that the responsible Englishman will feel that he must make pub-
lic. After nearly two hundred years of adolsscent manifestation of the individuality,
independence, etc., it is really time that this little spree came to an end.

It is time for the prodigal
to come home, for the lamb to
return to the fold, in short, for
the United States of Ameica to
reclaim its right and proper
place in the happy family of
the British Commonwealth of
Nations.

Now, I want to make it
clear from the start (and I'm
sure that I express the senti-
ments of Lizzy, Philiy, Uncle
Harold and all the rest of
them) that Mummy England
wont be cross. Qther ffttfe
boy and gir-Inations have gone
astray and We know that the
best way to be lenient.

In fact it is perfertly pos-
sible that certain concess.ons
will be made. Take that stamp
tax, and tea duty, for instance.
Now what those poor aggres-
sive colonists didn't «nder-
stand was that Mother Coun-
tries have to protect their
colonies and that in order to
do so they must have money.
But now the U. S. is to be
considered as an adult. Not
only will Americans enjoy tree

trading rights with England,
but in addition, America might
have (no promises here, mind
you) some trading rights with
other countries. This is typl-
cal of the type of untold bene-
fits that the U. S. would gain
by re-entering the Common-
wealth.

Think for a moment about
some of the less material ad-
vantages. Emotional security
would be an obvious example.
No more of that unwanted, cut-
off feeling. Lots of happy,
friendly brothers all over the
world.

And remember. when the
Queen makes her Christmas-day
speech to all the Common-
wealtn, she will be talking not
only to Canada and ail the rest
of them, but to the whole of
North America. (and in time
of. difficulty she may have a
special message.

Over Cuba, for instance, .she
would have had lots of advice
on being brave, and other help-
ful things to say.

Other advantages, briefly,

would be such things as: de-
cadence, culture, savoire-faire,
tradition, class-conscience,
taste, and authenticity for im-
portant occasions (no more of
those little farces in dark suits
such as we have just seen up
in Washington).

Now one of those suspicious
minds might ask what Great
Britian gets out of such a deal.
The answer is: not very much.
All we would ask would be
some of that nasty, dirty, soul-
polluting money simply to en-
sure that America becomes less
materialistic and is thus spiri-
tually redeemed, like England.
Also there would have to be
no more discrimination against
Negroes, Red Indians and other
Communists.

Therefore all you have to
do to make America a happy,
clean country is insist that the
party which replaces the Repub-
lican party is called the Colon-
ial party, striving to make this
nation “Her Majesty's Dominion
of North America”.

FILM FRIENDS PRESENTS

French Student Praises

‘Sundays And Cybele’

“Sundays and Cybele” is an excellent translation of the title of the French
movie “Les Dimanches de Ville d’ Auray” (The Sundays of Ville d’Auray). The
latter does not evoke anything for someone who is not French.

Ville d’Auray, a. little town
near Versailles and the Seine
River, stands for the symbol of
a nice conventional town, or to
put the thing bluntly, for a ra-
ther dull place. So the title sug-
gests the dullest kind of Sunday
you can imagine.

The English title suggests
rather a “Sunday picnic” type
of movie. Cybele was the god-
dess of nature in the Greek
mythology and is the symbol of

cameraman, carries you to an-
other sphere, to another world
of imagination, beauty, love and
happiness,

Two unhappy human beings,
in a total loneliness, meet by
chance, In the course of their
Sundays together the child and
the man regain confidence in
life and themselves.

But they cannot live outside
society and the conventional
world of the little town: “When

in part due to the symbols em-
ployed by the film director. The
romantic idyl between Pierre
and the little goddess is not
earthy: it belongs to another
world. She claims a tree as her
home and casta a pebble into

her lake and declares that their
“*home” is in the center of the
ripples. Pierre brings her a
weathercock, bird of Apollo god
of light, and at the end an ever-

Once More
With Feeling

By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

One week he is reluctantly feted in Atlanta
as the winner of the Nobel Prize for Peace, and. the
next week he sits in a jail cell in Selma, Alabama.

Martin Luther King, Jr. tried to register to
vote —tried to lead a group of Negroes to inscribe
their names on the roll of those who at least enjoy
the right to vote. And, In the true Southern tradition,
he and hundreds of others were not only denied this
basic right of citizenship, but the right to a peace-

avie assembiy as well.

The thought that such blatent injustice and
wide-eyed defiance of all that is human could take
place in this country really grieves me.

Perhaps the occasion of Mid-Winters, complete
with buxom and smoky Julie, is not the time to
put forth a plea for decency. Maybe one should not
be so naive as to disturb the ritualistic joy of after-
dance outbursts and after-drinking befuddlement
by introducing a matter so academic as Civil Rights.
After all, you say, we have pondered and crammed
for months now. We have burned the oil; we have
been sterile and scholarly—students, according to

the College catalogue.

Now we deserve our period of forgetfulness
and un-concern. ‘ihe time is right for a momentary
Stay against the pressures of formulas and theses,
tracts and cycles. We need to drown the god of

academia.

Now is the time, you say, to lay our minds on
a dusty shelf, amid the clutter of ominous books
and used Bright-liners. The mouth ... the eyes...
the feet ... the pelvis... the fingertips—these will

rule the weekend.

It will never work. College Man.

s * s

IT see you when you

arrive for the weekend.

you are already tired from your trip, but you are
lovely. ‘You kiss me matter-of-factly, but there is
a promise in your eyes, and a smile that longs to
be smiled alone. At the dorm, Janie French will take
our three dollars and let us know that she remem-

ers that
smiles on lovers.

ou have been here with me before. She

I will show you to my room. and I am secretly
proud when you tell me that it looks nice. You will
leave Chanel on the pillow, and I will be sad on

Sunday.

In Rochester, there was a little boy named
Sammy. He was a Negro. He would not speak,
except when he pulled on my sleeve and said,
“Got a nickel?” His eyes were always half-blank,
half-questioning. | remember first meeting him
fighting with another child. ! pulled him away
and picked him up. All he did was open his
mouth as wide as he could and utter a silent

scream...

| carried him home on my back, and he

eed in his pants. On the front porch of his
ouse, his mother sat with her legs spread and
cleaned the meat out of the shell of a huge tur-
tle. The blood dripped off of the porch onto the
dusty yard where two near-naked urchins
played with another turtle shell. Sammy was

crazy.

At the dance, you will wear your dark green silk
dress, and your hair will be long. We will move slow-
ly to the music muted by a thousand intimate voices.
Your shoulders are white, your ear cold against
my cheek. You look up with wet, happy eyes and

ass your lips—quietly, softly— across my chin.
or a fleeting second we are alone in the crowd, and
I am filled with wonder and with love.

The newspapers are filled with evidences
of our guilt. Birmingham. Bull Conner & Co.
pride themselves on keeping order with fire-

joses and cattle prodders. Negroes are beaten,

and the Klan cheers.

And still they come.

“Keep your eyes on the prize, hold on.” Philadel-
phia. The three Workers lie rotten in a shallow
grave ... victims of fear and godless hatred.
They will not be tried for murder, not Rainy
and Price. Life runs a full-page photo of smiling
Sheriff Rainey, his mouth full of “Red Men’
chewing tobacco. Little Rock seems so far away
—s long, bloody way away.

“Ain't no black s.0.6. gonna stink up my
children’s school!” “Kill ‘em! Kill ‘em!”

A single Negro looks into the mad crowd
of white faces, they are ugly with fear and hat-

red. “NIGGER,”

ey scream. His head bows.

“NIGGER! NIGGER! NIGGER!”
They lay very stil! on the blanket. In the dis-
tance they could hear the gaity and laughter of a

party. The moon’s hazy brilliance cast a
ght

ale blue

through the thick pines, interrupted only by
an occasional strand of silken cloud.

“It was wonderful.”
“Yes.”

“What are you thinking about?”

“Nothing.”
“Tell me.”

« ”

“Are you thinking about love?”
“Yes.”

She turned slowly toward him. Her soft hair
fell across his forehead. They were silent.
“Why are you crying?” she said.

the relationship between the

mran and the Nttle girl. “No,”
answers someone, ‘I think it is
marvelous.” That is the word
which summarizes the whole

a
the Iguana (Richard Burton, Sue

Lyon, Ava Gardner), Expert
ment in Terror (Lee Rennick),

and Toys in the Attle (Dean

Assooiate Bditors nature. Sunday picnics are fun you see someone living hap- Sreen free of Dionysus, god of film Martin , Yvette Mimieux).

Jim Dewae Copy Paditor .. ...__... Don Davis but nothing is more dull than pily out of your conventions @arkness, stands above his Toni ght a s Lo
pecial alternative Lounge chairs will be moved in-
Rick von creel Asst. Copy Editors ———- Bill Aitken this kind of fun. you can’t stand it” says one of world 0 F objects krought wo ie is being oMered to the regular to the Morrison Room to make
Tim Kimrey Calvin Zon The “tour de force” is that the characters. That is the whole by the little goddess, Cybele, Toutine of Midwinters partying. it as comfortable as possible for
Managing Editors John Todd Photographers Sam Smith both titles in different words Sry. a piece of poetry broken . * Beginning immediately after the students and their dates.
Mike Harrington Tom Thel suggest, for a certain public, by the sad reality. “Do you think it is normal’ concert, three movies will be The showing will end at $
Asst. Managing Edi é something nicely boring which The poetic value of the film is asks one of the characters about shown free of charge: Night ef a. m.
News Bditer = tor “gna Balley Cartooni Erskine Sproul by the very fact of being bor-
Feature Editor Bob Strauser artoonists . Jack Lingle ing attracts the attemtion of Be
Sports Editor Johnny Clark Rufus Hallmark the amateur of “New Wave"
Assistant Sports Bditor _ Bill Bri movies.
Circulation Manager .. Malcolm Like Lou Hill And what a movie! The pond,

Asst. Business Mgr. — Irvine Welling
Advertising Mgr. —— Bob Cameron
Contributors this week: Dick Spencer, Huck Berry, Louis Lesesne, Steve Couch,
Roger David, Harry Carr, Ed Maxwell, Joe Bentley, Jamie Bryant, Wait
Drak, Will Shackleford, David Coffey, Bob Howard, Mike Carrell, Ross
Cornwell, Bert Whisenant, Joe Ford, Ron Snow, Billy Farr, Bob Vance, Hey-

ward Carter, John Allen, Steve Brown, Paul Marion, Neville Patterson, Mike
Mooty, Sam Boyte.

Entered os Second Class Matter af the Pest Cifice af Davidsen, Nerth Careline,
under Act of March 3, 1679.

Asst. Circulation Manager, John Viser tne eae Bei trees, the streets,

e little girl, as many marvel-
ous pictures of a rare beauty
taken by Henri Deae. What an
artist!

The poetic value of the film is
exceptional. The director Serge
Bourguignon skillfully employs
Tibeten music as well as Char-
pentier's Christmas mass to con-
vey an impression of unreality
which, with the help of the
