PAGE FOUR FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1965

Fraternity Committee:
Who Are Members?

Who are the twelve men whose pending report on
fraternities has become the most frequent topic of con-
versation on campus in recent weeks? And what is the
“Fraternity Evaluation Committee” that they constitute?

As result of afurortouch- EO WHASELDEN. A senior
ed off in November by Rob- from Columbia, S. C., Haselden
ert C. Young, assistant di- is usually placed among the
rector of admissions and for- more conservative members of
mer fraternity liaison offi- the committee. A former mem-
cer, and after THE DAVID. ber of the Interfraternity Coun-
SONIAN had called editori- cil (IFC), he is president of Beta

——

Todd, Harrington Run
For Newspaper Head

ELECTIONS

MONDAY, MARCH 8
Chapel address by Will Jackson, explaining election
procedure, schedule and rules.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10
Deadline for filing for office. (Candidate files for
student body office, Honor Court, Freshman Ad-
visor, Student Council and cheerleader.)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

. A)
WA Xp

von Unwerth HALLMARK

|" <

—
. -

COUNCIL

“»
a |

YOUNG

,:

ae

‘Nominations Limited
To Members Of Staff

Mike Harrington and John Todd will run for the
editorship of THE DAVIDSONIAN the Publications Board
announced Wednesday.

ommittee, Theta Pi. ; ;
ay fOr ath co estse, WILL. JACKSON, Exctticio TONES TERRY Arnie Snider, Bill McGuire, and Woody Coleman THURSDAY, MARCH 11
lished the Fraternity Evalu- chairman of the committee, are candidates for Quips and Cranks editor. Chapel: Passing out of election cards.
ation Committee in Decem- Jackson votes only in the event | a John Compton and Charles Vick were nominated 6 p. m.: Deadline ior turning in stencils of platforms.
ber. of a tie. A Beta, the student for the editorship of Seripts ‘n Pranks. -andi

On a motion by Fred Sackett, body president is serving in his ~ Platforms returned to candidates by 6 p. m.
Council unanimously appointed second year as a freshman hall e° ry ,| One other student had asked members of the staff of the MONDAY, MARCH 15
. i] that he be considered for nomi- publication involved,” explain. Chapel: Speeches by candidates for Student Body

Student Body President Will
Jackson to “chair a committee

investigate the social life of Da- of the Psychology Department,

counselor.

ROBERT G. JONES. A Da-
whose purpose would be to in- yidson graduate and a member

nation for the Scrips ‘n Pranks
editorship. However, he did not
receive the approval of the

| board.

ed Charlie Dibble, chairman
of the Publications Board. “The
only time the Publication Board
intends to look beyond the staff

President

Voting for: Vice-President of Student Body
Secretary-Treasurer of Student Body
Honor Court Members

vidson students and to prepare Jones is a member of Phi Gam-
a report to be presented to the ma Delta. As assistant dean of.
Council by March 1, 1965." students, he presently serves as

In compliance with the motion, fraternity liaison officer. While

Jackson appointed a committee an undergraduate, the dean was a gs
consisting of 11 men. Included president of the IFC. ea oO n a m | u J Ss
were four fraternity men and JOHN KELTON. Also a David- ;

Viet Nam Under Fire

two Independents from the Stu- son graduate and a member of
dent Body, three administration the Psychology Department, the

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Editor of Quips and Cranks
Editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks
7:30 p.m.: Open forum for Presidential Candidates
TUESDAY, MARCH 16
Voting for: President of Student Body
Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN
tenet residents of Student Body (run-
0
Secretary-Treasurer (runoff)
Honor Court Members (runoff)
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17
Voting for: Cheerleaders
President of College Union
Runoffs, if necessary
THURSDAY, MARCH 19
Chapel: Presidential Candidates of YMCA speeches
Voting for: YMCA officers \
Freshman Advisor
Runoffs, if necessary
FRIDAY, MARCH 19
Voting for: Runoffs, if necessary
MONDAY, MARCH 22
Voting for: Student Council representatives
TUESDAY, MARCH 23
Voting for: Runoffs, if necessary.

Allen Explains Duties
Of Court’s Members

By HUGH ALLEN
Honor Court Chairman

To stand in judgment of your peers is a lonely
honor, but one that involves a grave responsibility.
Those members of the student body who choose to
run for the Honor Court must be willing to accept
this responsibility.

The Honor Court member must not take his
responsibility lightly, and he should never use his
position to exploit his fellow students. But he should
understand that with the privilege of living in an
honorable community goes the. responsibility of
maintaining its integrity.

The Honor Court ts not an “axe organization”
but is the most vital organization of the student body.
Its purpose is not to uphold honor but to help to
maintain an atmosphere in which honor can be re-
spected and practiced.

__ To fulfill this purpose, the court mémbers
will make interpretations and classifications to the
student body concerning their responsibility of liv-
ing under the honor system; they will investigate
Suspected violations of the honor code; and they
will hold trial only upon sufficient evidence.

If elected to the Honor Court, a student will
be honor bound to report violations of both the
honor code and student body regulations. He will
maintain a policy of secrecy concerning the trials
of the Court. This secrecy is necessary to guard
against the defamation of character of those on trial.
But the court member should be attentive to criti-
cism and welcome suggestions.

I encourage only those members of the student
body who have a clear understanding of the obliga-
tion of an Honor Court member and who have a
Sincere desire to serve their fellow students in this

FISHER ROSS

HASELDEN | “The board's poiicy Is to of a publication would be when
limit nomination to qualified there aren't two qualified staff
‘+; members willing to run.

“The fellow turned down by
the board was generally con-
sidered quaLified for the posi-
tion. Nevertheless, the board
was wary of setting what could
be-a dangerous precedent where
any member of the student
body could conceivably be nom-
inated and elected to an edi-
torial position.

“In a_ situation like this
campus politices could easily
get the upper hand. And it's
conceivable that a complete-
ly unqualified person would be
elected,” he continued.

“The board views the present
nominating procedure as an
incentive. Suppose a very pop-
ular person wants to edit one
of the publications but doesn’t
want to work his junior year
on the staff for one reason
or another. If he were nominat-
ed and his opponents were not
dynamic personalities, I’m sure
--knowing the way Davidson
votes—he would be the cand-
idate selected.

“On the other hand, if a
junior wants to be nominatei
under the system we now have,
he’s going to work on this year’s
publication. And he's going to
work hard because he knows
he’s going to need experience
—and in all probability his
editor's recommendation—if he
expects to be nominated.”

Nominations Made
For Campus Posts

Nomination of candidates for
election to several campus of-
fices has been made with other
selections pending in the near
future.

Four names were submitted
for President of the YMCA by
.| the Y Cabinet. Those nominated
were Buck Lawrimore, Murray
Smith, Thom Blair, and Neill
McBryde. These nominations are
pending acceptance by the cand-
idates.

:| Candidates for president of the
| Student Union are selected in
a different manner. Under a
policy instituted last year to
-J| open the office to more stu-
:;| dents, anyone wanting to run
‘| can submit a letter of intent
and qualification to the Union

members, and a faculty mem- young professor is a member of
ber. A third Independent, Pax- Sigma Chi.
ton Wray, was elected to the arr Ross. A senior from
committee by a vote of the com: Asheboro, Ross is serving in his
mittee itself. second year as a freshman hall
Including Jackson, the com: counselor. Pledge trainer of Pi
mittee numbers 12, all of whom Kappa Alpha this year, he is,
—save the three Independents— generally considered one of the!
are members of fraternities. The most forceful fraternity spokes- | our staple groceries and
members include: men on the committee. meats have to be flown in
BILL COUNCIL. A Phi Delt WILL TERRY. A Davidson from Atlanta . . . in October
junior, Council is the only stu- graduate in the Class of 1954, the | the natives staged a huge
dent on the committee who is college chaplain is a member of} antj-Davidson | demonstra-
not a member of the Senior Sigma Phi Epsilon. tion on main street... .
Class. From Washington, D.C.. RICK von UNWERTH. A sen-/ 4 week ago Viet Cong gueril-
the vice-president of the Student jor ATO, von Unwerth is presi-! jas were reported in Cor-
Body is currently serving as a dent of the IFC. From Georgia.| nelius . . . and the Presi-
freshman halt counselor. von Unwerth offered in chapel in| gent has now ordered the
PAT FISHER. A senior and a November the fraternities’ an-; withdrawal of’ all non-com-
member of the football team, swer to Bob Young's original| hat personnel.
Fisher is president of Lingle blast at fraternities. level
Manor, which—while open to all PAXTON WRAY. Added asthe There could be other levels
students—is in practice the only “twelfth man™ on the commit- of reality superimposed on
organization of Independents on tee. this Charlottean is an Inde- Davidson's provincial existence.
campus. pendent who is highly critical of ' anere was an article ay ms
RUFUS HALLMARK. A sen., fraternities. Banta newspaper wor

“ t the family of Lt. Col.
ior, Hallmark is generally con. BOB YOUNG, “The man who, pou R e Wheaton, Davidson's
sidered one of the most out- .

lit the fuse.”’ Young is assistant; ; .
standing Independents on cam. director of admissions. A 1961: former ROTC vient about ther
pus. He is a member of both Phi Davidson graduate, heis a mem: | South Viet Nam before forced
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta ber of Phi Delta Theta. As as-, evacuation. Mrs. Wheaton and
Kappa. honorary scholastic and oa

; ce sistant dean of students a her children are now with her
leadership fraternities. respec- year, he served as fraternity
tively.

1 liaison officer. oar se Vaesonibed her om
Campus Sex Problem

a
Considered By Rule

perierices.
The Wheatons lived for eight
months in Datat. South Viet
Nam, after leaving Davidson.
Wheaton is commanding off:cer
of US troops at Dalat and
By WILL NORMAN weeds out the bad to pro- wrece. eset eaten vieina-
A Review fect the good. The facade ese abary- y.
eribed as similar to our West
John T. Rule’s article “Must of the rules and the ee the Point.
the Colleges Police Sex?” (The tus of penishment make the Mrs. Wheaton saw the strange
Atlantic Monthly, April, 1964) university and its counsel- war in South Viet Nam first-
‘should be of special interest to ors of students authoritar- hand. White she was in Saigon
us here at Davidson. ian figures not to be con-
Although the immediate topic fided in or, for that matter,
onder ocsideration is the con. (rusted. . It is the failure
troversy over visiting regula- of the college. . :to listen
tions in college dormitories, with calmness rather than |
Rule treats the problem of sex  v#rage to young defenders |
on campus as part of a wider of sexual privilege that

problem which is just as rele- Coleg, teens to weve. w
vant to controversies over drink- ege e _ vie
ing restrictions and fraternity Commit the gross injustice of
systems. After initially outlin- punishing guilty and innocent

: : alike for the crimes that they
ing the forces which have deter- ” (
mined current sexual] mores a- might commit if ney ee give, OL’
mong students, Rule criticizes 8? respon

undergoing treatment for a and bombs to Saigon. From
sinus infection, she. watched there Mrs. Wheaton and her
critically wounded American children were quickly hustled
soldiers being brought into the abroad a chartered plane,
main hospital. This was in Sep- which, with one stop, was 36
tember. hours to the United States.
Three weeks after this, Mrs. Thirty-six hours by any means

Wheaton worked in the city of transportation is a long hard
hosp:'tal at Dalat as a Red ride in saddle—add fatgiue to}
Cross Gray Lady—on that day fear for your husband and with
there was a Buddhist demon- only those belongings you had
stration at the main pagoda. in your hand try to handle
“It was frightening, as the children of age ten and eight
rioters carried clubs and chant- and six: then something of
ed loudly. On the top of the Mrs. Wheaton’s final experi-
pagoda was a banner saying ence with South Viet Nam can
‘Americans Go Home, We Do be imagined.

Not Want You. (Various an@ sundry David-
As tensions rose in this smalt. $0" Students may be interested

resort town, the Wheatons’ first ‘0 hear that Sandy Wheaton,
concern was for their children, C°!. Wheaton’s nineteen-year-

All staple groceries and meats old daughter, a .freshman at
had to be fowa in from Saigon Valdosta State College, remain-

—"if the plane failed to fly— ed safe in the State during alt

no groceries.” Then only a few - this.)
weeks ago Viet Cong activity Juniors and seniors might
was reported in a village a- wish to scan this article with.
bout a mile from the Wheaton more than passing interest. If
home. the United States decides to
News of the evacuation was continue to honor to commit-
given to the Wheatons just 12 ments In South Viet Nam,
hours in advance. Aside from there may be increased num-
the difficulties of packing cost bers of American soldiers sent
of one's belongings in 12 hours, overseas, not excluding form-
there was this added detail. er Davidson students. David-
all the foot-lockers and bags son's alumni of a few years
that were packed had to be back are scattered from Ger-
left at the airport. “All of our many to Korea to Southeast
belongings were left in Dalat-- Asia—and in some cases their
except the clothes. on our families likewise.
backs.” Davidson, the final stop be-
The Wheaton family was fore the front lines? Perhaps
flown from Dalat in-a military unlikely—but it happened to
plane armed with machine guns the Wheatons.

For eight months tension
have been rising in this
small Carolina town... all

ines 4
’ . ,
om
2

.

Y Pe.
;

a

eee

. wae . iduals.
two attitudes which in his opin- Board. The Board attempts to , \ s
ion are held by a rather Jarge Fortunately, not ail univer. insure that all declaring can- capasty to seek election for the office. ;
didates are qualified. in 410 a, interested students has questions, I room

sities are so backward. More:
enilightened institutions sub-| !
scribe to the philosophy of >
“total education," the belief «
that. the totality of the college. ~aa-

community is involved in edu- ——— “a
cation. These universities have
tecognized the importance of
considering not only the over-
all intent of rules and regula-;
tions but their effects on the
development of individual stu-
dents as well.

Campus To Install Lighting System|—=

connect the lights which will be
mounted on aluminum poles. Wooden
pegs now mark the proposed location
of these lights.

Meetze remarked concerning the

number of students.

The most common rationa-
lization used to justify inter-
course is the doctrine that
sex relations are “offensive or
not offensive on the sole basis
of the particular relationship
between the two individuals in-
volved,” i. e., it’s all right as
long as you're in love. Another
attitude, especially appealing
to more timid young souls, is
that “sex is loads of fun but
not very important.”

Neither of these attitudes
takes into consideration the
real issue at stake, the role of
intercourse in finding sexual
maturity and personal identity,
and it is here that the college
has a legitimate concern with

|

According to Union Presi-
dent Steve Bunch, “Anyone
running for this office witl
have to be qualified because
(| it takes a lot of time and
i] effort."

Letters may be given to
Bunch. The deadline is March
10.

The head cheerleader will
not be chosen until after the
cheerleaders have been elect-
ed.

Open ‘til 1 a.m.
Monday—Friday

The Hub}

THE UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH:

—

COL. PAUL WHEATON
Advises at Vietnamese Military Academy

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.

Mercury-vapor lamps will be in-
stalled on the campus soon, College
Engineer Grover Meetz announced
this week.

Sie She lahbane, Ms eye fhe angie afc ges ae nat ot ne
college’s installation O© a ke the campus seem mechanical,
problem of sex on campus can| that will cover the front area of the but “they are mecessary. You can't THE BEST SEWANEE, TENNESSEE

campus and will extend to the Union
in the back and to the dormitories and
Concord Road on either side.

Underground wires will feed and

take two forms, depending upon
the educational theory to which
the college subscribes, rule
contends. Those colleges which
believe that education begins
and ends in the classroom im-
pose strict regulations on stu-
dent conduct with the aim of
protecting themselves from the
criticism of trustees, alumni,
and in the case of state univer.
sities, taxpayers and legislators.
Rule is quite frank in his con-
demnation of this position:
Students. . .all must be
treated as too immature
to have good judgment. A
college first prevents by
fimiting opportunity, then

please everybody.”

IN
gentienent progress is our most im: | PIZZA and SPAGHETTI
portant product.” '
THE FUN BEGINS AT

“just up the road.... ”

Announces

A 1965 SUMMER SESSION FOR
MEN AND WOMEN

" Eight weeks; June 21-August 14
* Liberal arts curriculum

Forest environment

Sewanee Summer Music Center
~ Student Summer Theatre

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA |

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

For the Summer School Bulletin

Charlotte, N. C. Address the Director of the Summer School

