FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 1965

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Outmoded Restrictions Make Davidson A Poor Imitation

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Associate Editor
(Editorial Correspondence)

“Irresponsible drinking is a serious violation of
College regulations and standards and wil! be dealt
with accordingly. The College does not prohibit the
moderate use of alcoholic beverages in dormitories
and fraternities, though no student may consume
any alcoholic beverage, or carry a ‘drink,’ in public.’
—Rules and Regulations, Dartmouth College.

“No student shall be guilty of drinking alcoholic
liquors or having the|same in his possession on the
campus. Every student found guilty of violation of
this regulation shall be suspended from the College.”
—Student Body Constitution, Davidson College.

“Undergraduates may entertain women guests
in dormitory rooms after 8 a.m. until the following
times:

Sunday through Thursday 7 p.m.

Friday 9 p.m.

Saturday 12 midnight
—Undergraduate Regulations, Princeton University.

“No women are allowed to visit dormitory rooms
except on college conducted tours.”—Dormitory
Regulations, Davidson College.

“For many, college may be their first voluntary
opportunity to get their teeth into a faith of their
own making and to explore with others the possibil-
ities of a creative religious life. Others will find op-
portunities to continue in groups that they have al-
ready found helpful and meaningful.” — statement
of policy, Whittier College.

“For exceeding the number of unexcused ab-
sences allowed in either Vespers or Chapel, a student
will be placed on probation with regard to the exer-
cise ‘overcut. An additional excess absence in the
exercise overcut will result in a penalty of loss of
one half the number of unexecused absences allowed

for the next semester in that exercise. Also, any fur-

ther absences for the present semester in either ex-
ercise will result in a restriction to the campus.” —
Davidson College Regulations.

Davidson’s great liberalization program of the
past several years, of which the current fraternity
turmoil is but the most recent aspect, appears to be
somewhat one-sided with regard to student life, ac-
cording to a recent DAVIDSONIAN inquiry which
was answered by seven of nine colleges and uni-
versities contacted.

Davidson's great northern idols — Princeton,
Harvard, Dartmouth, Amherst, and Williams—are
among the group responding to the questionnaire,
which centered around the aspects of required
church and assembly attendance. drinking rules, and
regulations concerning women in dormitories. Bow-
doin College in Maine and Whittier College in Cali-
fornia also answered the survey.

Princeton, Harvard, Dartmouth, Amherst, Wil-
liams, and Bowdoin all permit the freedom of mod-
erate consumption of alcoholic beverages on campus.
Whittier and Davidson do not.

MAXIMUM PUNISHMENT

Typical of the policies of the first six colleges
is the above rule of Dartmouth, and the regulation
at Princeton, listing suspension as the maximum

punishment for “disorder and bad manners arising
from the use of liquor.” Regulations of Williams,
Amherst, and Bowdoin, make similar references to
the use of alcohol, while Harvard regulations make
no mention at all of the subject.

However, Davidson does not stand alone in her
courageous fight against the evil of alcoholic bever-
ages. The rules of the Quaker-supported institution
in California provide a familiar ring, specifying.
“The use or possession of alcoholic beverages by a
student or student organization on campus or at a
Whittier College function off-campus is prohibited.”

Whitter also concurs with Davidson in the bar-
ring of women from men's dormitories, but yecog-
nizes the necessity of normal social intercourse by
providing for a coed student body. The other six col-
leges, all male institutions, permit women in dormi-
tory and fraternity house rooms.

CONSERVATIVE HOURS

The above-mentioned visiting hours for Prince-
ton are on the conservative side in comparison to the
other Ivy League schools, with the latest visiting
hours being 2 a.m. on Saturday night at Williams
and 12:30 a.m. on Saturday nights at Amherst.

Only Bowdoin among the northern schools de-
parts from the general pattern, providing for only
afternoon visiting hours and these only on Friday
and Saturday. However, their Dean of Students notes

that Bowdoin’s social situation “is in a state of flux
at the moment,” and that it is hoped by next year
Bowdoin will have “a new social code prepared by
the students and governing the various social privi-
leges and responsibilities which go with being a stu-
dent at this College.”

Not even the doctrinaire Quakers in California
support an institution having required church attend-
ance, asserting instead the value of ‘a creative re-
ligious life’ found by each student voluntarily. The
most that the rules of the northern schools do to-
ward providing forced religion is point out the
churches in the vicinity available for student wor-

ship.
UNHEARD OF

Required student assemblies are also unheard
of at the Ivy League institutions, while Whittier does
require attendance at student and faculty sponsored
convocations held once a week.

The institution probably most similar to David-
son in this respect is Baptist-supported Campbell
College, a coed school of sorts at Buies Creek where
chapel is held five times a week and boys can get
demerits for shooting squirrels.

Apparently a great amount of change in think-
ing will have to be effected before the “Princeton
of the South” can, in the field of student freedom
and responsibility, even become a good imitation.

COLLEGE BOARD PROGRAM

Bliss Heads Placement Committee

Give Gripes Direction:
Action, Not Just Talk

By BILL WISEMAN
The most diabolical curse that can be placed upon a
college is that its students be oppressed and be unaware

of the oppression. We have,

in some measure, escaped

the still-birth of unacknowledged oppression. We are

one-up on such a quagmire.

But our station on the

road toward awareness and

maturity is greatly more uncomfortable than unconscious

drudgery. Even

disregarding the mist of hang-over

apathy, the Calvinistic novocaine has begun noticeably
to Wear off. We, at Davidson, are in the throes of the

Gripe stage. And that is a Start.
If you’re interested in the

“elite” thought of the

campus. there are many sources of information. Spot-
check letters to the Editor in recent, o rancient DAVID-
SONIANS. Act nonchalant, and slip up on a table of beats

Union-hounds, and other generally

coffee. dreg den.

Drop key pnrases, like ‘‘intel-
lectual stagnation,’ ‘‘student
apathy.’’ ‘‘social stereotype,”
“political effeminacy,” around
the dark corners of the campus,
or at the disciples congregating
about young turks of the faculty.
Tf you haven't gotten the word
yet, you will learn that this
small spot on a large map In
large measures, “eats it."

Yeah, man. Now you can cool
it with the varieties of local
cynicism. And, if you don’t care,
or know you shouldn't appear to
care whom you are seen with,
you might even be inducted into
the mystique of what, around
here, serves as intellectual.

Such glory can be yours. In-
stead of lying around a fraterni-
ty house moaning over a no-
make soiree or a lost decanter,
you can sit around the Union
or Library catacombs and re-
gister dismay at a puerile, timid
student couneil, fink Trustees,
or the amorphous but chastity-
belting administration.

A GRIPE

Read, but don’t misread. I am
not panning gripes. This essay,
you may have noticed, is some-
thing of a gripe. Gripes are
often admirable as a direction.
Direction, but no place. When
complaint becomes a mode of
thought, you develop the malig-
nant epitome of undirected, or
halted liberals.

You find yourself in a circle
in which “civil rights” is a popu-
lar cause, in which alcohol is
an fdol of other pastures, in
which intellectual ardour is de-
sired, in which freedom is wish-
ed for, to be greeted, if ever,
with latent responsibility. But
as a local poet once mused in
a streak of fancy, “Life just
ain't like that.”

PASTORAL COMFORT

Causes are admirable. But
here in our pastoral comfort it
is much too easy to forget that
rea! causes invariably signal ten-
sion, discomfort, even threats.
Sure, I'll get on your band-wag-
on with you and swat a tam-
bourine for free speech — but
let's take the wagon at least as
far as Mooresville or Charlotte.

The rub is that civil rights,
real civil rights, is not a popular
cause — out there. If it were
popular, as a cause it would be
superfluous. No, rather it is a
painful, messy. slow, often dang-
erous attempt to purge the bigo-
try from all of us — not just
to shame a few deluded terror-
ists in a Selma or a Philadelphia
(either one).

FREEDOM

Alcohol, you will note, is mere-

ly alcohol — not a so

disgruntled’s in the

tract, Intellectual ardour can be
desired with a passion, but it
will nevér achieve itself. And
freedom is never granted with-
out. responsibility, but rarely
even with it.

Freedom of any kind, like any
other mountain to be built, is the
self-won fruit of a long, hard,
insistent effort. It has to be
forged by. those who would have
it — it has never been handed
to anyone.

Let the beginning, the germ,

of social action — by some of:

our people in recent voter-reg-
istration — continue, expand, if
their real action comes of real,
well wrought conviction.

CHAMPAGNE?

If you want champagne on
campus, don't long for it, do
something. Several thousand
beer cans (empty, if you will)
piled before the Chambermaids
some bright Sunday morning,
for a start.

If you want a fraternity in
which you can really have free-
dom from Presbyterian matrons,
let the college have its little
houses. There's a Lingle bit the
Manor with them anyhow. Rent

-one of your own, hire a cook,

save a lot of money — and get
out of that brick, mortar and
pestle-ence known as dormi-
tory life (ugh).

It has been done, before. The
crux of power for any status
quo is implied intimidation and
reprisal for dissent. The student
store doesn't stock back-bones
neither does the Ltd. Rush Wil-
son, but they have been known
to spring up in unexpected
places.

LIBERALIA
When Liberal ideas become a
status quo, however -which orig-
inally was their target, questions
must arise as to the nature and
or the intent of those who as-
sent to liberalia.

If the day arrives when all
it takes to be a political, social,
or intellectual liberal-is the nod-
ding of one's head in the right
(and predominant) company,
there will be the paradox in
which it takes more courage and
imagination to be a musty, fest-
ered conservative.

Don’t stop. Don't stop griping.
Holler about restriction. Scream
about injustice. Gripe about the
mystique of a ‘‘safe place” to
be sent. Gripe about this essay.
The more, the better. But don’t
ever hit back and be pleased
with the echoes of your gripes.
Be so busy doing something
about what has to be changed
that any echoes are seen to be

cial con-just what they are—echoes.

By JAMIE BRYANT
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dr. Frank W. Bliss, Associate Profes-
sor of English, is very specific and defi-
nite as he sits behind his desk and re-
lates his ideas, accomplishments, and
endeavors. He is a man in a hurry, and
is involved in matters national and local
in scope.

Bliss is currently the chief reader
for the College Entrance Examination
Board’s Advance Placement Program in

English. This program is international in
scope, and includes about 14,000 stu-
dents across the nation.

The program is centered at Prince-

ton, where Bliss first became involved in.

1956. as a reader for the tests. Each in-
dividual exam is read by this board of
readers, and none of them are graded by
machine.

Bliss became a member of the Com-
mittee of Examiners in 1960, and head of
this committee in 1964. This committee
is responsible for making the exam, and

Dionne Talks Casually
On Davidson, Careers

By JOE FORD
Davidsonian Asst. Managing Editor

Dionne Warwick was quite a sight for
the relaxed, but attentive “Frolickers”
sprawled out in front of Chambers last
week. Her unexpected blonde hair, her
familiar sleek, black gown, her self-
assured bearing, her fascinating, light
voice, all combined to overcome a faulty
PA system and an overly-loud band
with an exciting performance.

There are many intriguing aspects of
this entertainer which, unfortunately, do
not reveal themselves during a perform-
ance. Only after a conversation with the
witty young lady is one aware of her
warm sincerity. which can make a nerv-
ous reporter feel “at home” in a couple
of minutes.

Dressed in black slacks and a sweat-
er, she sat on a couch in the Union

~ .

DIONNE WARWICK
“Everyone is So Helpful”

lounge and reflected on her impressions
of the campus, “I love it,” she remarked.
“Its beautiful. It reminds me of my own
school. I even took pictures of the cam-
pus this afternoon.

CAMPUS IMPRESSIONS

“The idea of an all male school ap-
peals to me, though I find it quite differ-
ent. Everyone is so helpful. The man-
ners are noticeably better here. It’s amaz-
ing how attitudes and people differ from
place to place.”

She reached to pull a pack of Salems
from her pocketbook and laughed at the
tear in the patent leather bag. “This is
what you get for overloading it,” she
quipped. “I use it for a suitcase and just
about everything else.”

Commenting on the conditions under
which she had just performed Miss War-
wick said, “The idea of an outdoor con-
cert is lovely. This is only my third.

“T don’t like the idea of singing with
a different band at each concert, though.
It’s got to stop. Of course I realize that
it’s not the school’s fault. The agents
should take a little more time getting a
group which fits better with the singer.
It’s a real headache when you don’t
know what kind of band to expect. For
all I know they could show up with five
guitarists!

JOINT CONCERT IDEAL

“The joint concert idea has its ad-
vantages,” she added, “but I prefer to
do my own show. Then I can sorta
stretch out. This way you’re confined.
A one-man show is to the performer’s
advantage, unless, of course, he’s no
good.”

She plans to appear on some shows
this summer and fall, including “The Al
Hirt Summer Show,” “The Steve Law-
rence Show,” “Hollywood Palace,” and
“The Dean Martin Show.”

“I do millions of frat parties,” she
added. “Man, I’ve done ‘em! Some are
real dasharoos!”

_ PAST CAREER ;

Commenting on her. “pop” career,
she explained, “I was in a gospel group.
but it gradually dissolved. Four years
ago some friends convinced me to make
my first recording, “Don’t Make Me
Over.’ I was in school at the University
of Hartford at the time. The record was
a hit, so they snatched me out of school
and all of a sudden there I was.”

When asked if she ever missed her
gospel singing career she answered, “Of
course I do! You can’t get away from
something you were brought up on. I
still include two gospels in my full per-
formance. Also, I sing in the church
choir when I’m home. I love it!”

FUTURE PLANS

Regarding her future plans, she paus-
ed to think and then remarked, “I gave
myself seven years to reach the peak.
T'll know when it comes. I want to quit
at the right time so I can come back
in five years with the same prestige with
which I left.

“J want to go back to school and get
that little slip of paper that says I can
teach. I want to teach music education.”

As she stood up and began to walk
downstairs for a steak dinner she smiled
and said, “I love music. My mother made
me take piano, and I hated it. But I took
for 13 years and I love it now. It’s my

aby 2

setting the policy for the program, as
well as conducting the exam.

The committee also selects teachers
to serve as readers to grade the exam.
Today there are approximately 200 read-
ers, of which one-third are high school
teachers and two-thirds are college pro-
fessors.

The Committee of Examiners meets
several times a year to work on the tests
which are made out a year-and-a-half in
advance. Work is now in progress on the
exam for 1966, and work on the test for
1967 will begin in August. As head of
the committee, Bliss visits the schools
and consults with the teachers who are
involved in the program, and carries on
daily correspondence with CEEB.

Bliss points out that the aim of the
program is to break down the concept
of 12 years of high school and 4 years
of college into 16 years of higher. edu-
cation. This is designed to encourage the
gifted student who would be bogged
down by the pace set for the average
student. .

It enables the high school curriculum
to adjust and progress with the advanced
student. The test is given in May, and
about 12 per cent of those who take the
test receive college credit.

Bliss pointed out that any student can
take the test whether he has been in the
advanced program or not. Of all the
subjects offered under the CEEB pro-
gram, English. is the largest.

After World War II, Bliss returned to
Emory and completed his AB in two
years in 1947, He then went to the Uni-
versity of Minnesota, where he finished
his MA in 1948, and completed course
work on his PhD in 1949.

He became an instructor of English
at the University of Oregon, where he re-
mained until 1953, when he returned to
Minnesota and completed his disserta-
tion while teaching part time. Bliss re-
ceived his PhD in 1954, and accepted an
instructorship at Princeton. He was pro-
moted to assistant professor in 1957. In
1960 he resigned and accepted an as-
sistant professorship at St. Olaf College.

ege.

Bliss came to Davidson in 1963 to

th
_ |
> & :

P

hastirattn

(Staff Photo by Smith)

DR. FRANK W. BLISS
“A Nomadic Person”

teach in the Humanities program. From
here no one knows where he will go,
but he describes himself as “essentially
a nomadic person.”

At Davidson he is Chairman of the
Sophomore Humanities Staff, and has
served on the Self Study Educational
Program Committee as its Secretary. He
also serves on the Admissions Commit-
tee, and the Library Committee.

_ When asked about any publications,
Bliss answered, “What books?” He did
admit to publishing a lecture titled “To
Read a Literary Work,” an introduction
to an edition of Eighteenth Century po-
etry, and “very few” essays and reviews
every year.

‘Crusader Without A Cause’

(EDITOR’S NOTE: The following appear-
ed as an editorial in a recent issue of the
Mooresville Tribune (April 15). Because of
its reference to the college comraunity, we
have reprinted paris of the editorial below.
Last week’s DAVIDSONIAN carried a news
article on the participants from Davidson.)

Don Quixote fought his windmills: a frag-
ment of the Davidson College faculty and stu-
dent. body now courageously attacks discrim-
ination at the Mooresville polls. The hollow
sound of the contemporary conflict, not unlike
the pounding of Rosinante’s hoofs, is music for
the march of crusaders without a cause.

The little tragicomedy played out here
Saturday by a delegation from Davidson and
a few Negro citizens of Mooresville was the
most farcical and foredoomed promotion since
those madcap advertising men set out to
clothe all the poor naked animals. While there
is some evidence that the Negro registration
drive was born in good faith, it exploded into
a cry of wolf in the one pasture known posi-
tively to be free of wolves. There is not now,
nor has there been in recent history, one iota
of discrimination at places of registration and
voting in this community. Any claims of such
discriminaton are poppy-cock, pure and
simple. .. .

If the play-acting Saturday had been that
and nothing more, we would be commending
the organized effort to get more citizen par-
ticipation in our upcoming town and school
elections, But, sadly, providing encouragement
and transportation for people to places of reg-
istration just isn’t glamorous or exciting —
it simply isn't what. “intelligent and compas-
sionate” people, especially college kids, are
doing these days... .

It is a disappointing reflection on the
caliber of Davidson College that its represen-
tatives close-mindedly assumed that what's
wrong enough for Selma is wrong enough for

the South. It is doubly condemning that in
their haste to grasp microphone firmly in
hand and charge off in all directions. the
Davidson spokesmen picked the State Theater.
The State Theater long since has been inte:
grated-.and without the slightest incident.

But the guts of the issue is discrimination
al the polls. We defy anyone to present evi-
dence that any eligible citizen has been denied
access to the ballot box here. In truth, this is
the one area in which registrars often stretch
the voter requirements in order to get Negroes
registered. The Mooresville Town Board Jast
week discussed following state and county
rules in demanding proof of literacy during
the registration period now in effect. The com-
missioners decided against placing any addi-
tional restrictions on registering -for fear it
would prevent even one citizen from qualify-
ing to vote.

The whole business would be laughable
were it not so potentially dangerous. Already,
tension has been created where none existed.
A gully now has eroded across the path of real
appeals for genuine needs for Negroes.
Mooresville now asks: If misguided people
will go to these extremes to assure something
they had without question, what on earth is
left for them to do in pursuing legitimate
aims... ?

The one bright star in all this may be
seen from the campus of Davidson College.
A college education today without seasoning
on the battleground of civil rights is unthink-
able. Higher learning without race confronta-
tion nowadays is as meaningless as, say, a
South American election without revolution,
or a money-making movie that isn’t for
“adults only,”’

Davidson's bright young men, student and
faculty, have been rescued from such an out-
dated destiny — they have found their cause
celebre in their own backyard. Too bad they
have missed the point Cervantes made.
