FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1966

PAGE THREE

ANOTHER HURDLE

Thursday's afternoon sun smiled broadly as Lef-
ty Driesell loaded his 10 tall tournament tickets into
a plane pointed toward Raleigh.

Less than 24 hours later 375 students — nursing
their tournament tickets as carefully as Driesell
nursed his — loaded into over 100 cars pointed
toward Reynolds Coliseum.

Tonight at nine Driesell’s tickets and Davidson’s
ticket holders meet again, miles away from the cam-
pus they both left slowly waking up for the weekend.

Incidental to this meeting is another confronta-
tion —- Davidson’s second hurdle to the Eastern Re-
gional’s title, Syracuse.

A fast, quick, team, as most of this year’s North-
eastern squads seem to be, Syracuse brings a high
scoring average, a 21-5 mark and an All-American
to Raleigh.

“We’ve seen them three times this year,” Drie-
sell remarked. “They're taller than Rhode Island, but
they play a similar run and shoot type game.”

Nearly every Wildcat basketball fan that looks
at tonight's game agrees that Driesell will have to
ro: 4 Dave Bing, Syracuse’s version of ‘“Superhorse”’

eat the Orangemen from the North. The natural
way, many of the backseat coaches also agree, is
with Dick Snyder, Davidson’s Superhorse, All-Ameri-
can, Mr. Everything.

“I don’t know whether Snyder will be on
Bing or not,” Driesell admitted,, “and if I did I
wouldn’t tell you.”

So there is another element of surprise added
for tonight’s encounter. Not only must we wonder if
our 1966 brand of Wildcat basketball can handle one
of the top Northeastern independents, but will Sny-
der be on Bing, and can he handle him?

But before Davidson takes the court, St. Josephs
and Duke butt heads in the opener.

Win, lose, tie or otherwise Davidson will play
two games this weekend; tonight’s contest with Syra-
cuse and tomorrow night’s contest with the winner
(uh, loser?) of the St. Joe-Duke tilt.

In a tournament such as the grueling NCAA
regionals and finals, if a team wants to win, it must
not only concentrate on the next game, which it
must not lose, but the game after that, which is also
a necessity.

Driesell knows plenty about St. Joe, who edged
him 83-79 in Charlotte earlier this year.

As for Duke, again Driesell has scouted well,
“T watch the Vic Bubas show every week,” he joked.

CINDERELLA

Davidson must be the Cinderalla team of the
tournament. ‘Everybody expects us to get beat,”
Driesell admitted, “But we're planning to go to Col
lege Park next weekend.

“We really don’t have as much pressure on us as
these other teams. After all, they're in the top 10,
and we’re not —- I think we should be, but we're not.

“We're confident we can go up there and win
these regionals.”

Monday Cinderella slipped into her glass slipper
and amazed everyone with how well it looked over
her size 12 basketball shoes.

But despite the grace of the ’Cats’ w in over com
pletely outclassed Rhode Island, they are still a Cin
derella team in the eyes of the basketball world.

“Any tournament win by a big score helps you,”
Driesell philosophized. “It helps momentum, your
mental attitude, and playing without Snyder helped
give the other boys confidence.”

With renewed confidence Davidson's
mores and senior Phil
smoother, more assured
time this season.

After spending all but 12 minutes on the bench
Snyder may make even a greater effort in Raleigh to
show any skeptics that are left he ranks with the best
this year.

Waiting six years to capture the conference title
may give this year’s Driesell-coached team enough
bottled up desire and momentum to win more, re-
gardless of the odds they face.

Cinderella may have been a dirty, little, under-
dog chimney sweep, but she won the crown despite
the odds she faced.

Tonight Cinderella again comes to the court,
convinced she has the horses to carry her coach to

——.

ugly sisters could be vanquished this week -
end i betore the clock strikes midnight and horses
supposedly become mice and coaches pumpkins —
just two ugly sisters between Cinderella and another

sopho-
uier may be able to play
asketball than any other

crown,

By DOUG CRISP
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson matmen
neyed to Williamsburg, Va.,
participate in the Southern en
ference tournament, last Friday |
and Saturday.

|
|
. ~~
|
|

The
place

‘Cats finished in  sixth|
out of the seven team |
field. West Virginia finished in|
first place, the Citadel second, |
followed by VMI, East Carolina, |
| William and Mary, Davidson |
| and Furman.

The teams finished in groups
| of twos—-WVU and The Citadel
| being very close at, the top,
| VMI and East Carolina separat
led by only a few points, and
| William and Mary beating Dav
| idsen by only two points.

Joe Buffington, a 123-pounder,
| finished in third place, being
'defeated by the conference |
champion only. Edic Nichols}
finished in fourth place in the}
160-pound class |

Bruce’ Vanderbloeman. held

down .a fourth place in the: 167
pound. division. Heavyweight
Lowell Bryan finished in fourth
place in his weight division.
}
The ‘Cats were hindered in the |
tourney by the absence o e]
wrestlers out (with injuries—-|
Terry O'Hair, Johnny Webb and |
Martin Miller |
|
Next year the weight S|
have been changed’ to include |
a- 191 pound class and 115 |
pound division. This. new sys- |
tem of 11 weight classes will!
help the ‘Cats next season. |

Colin Hudson, a freshman who}
was undefeated this season in|

(Photo by Thel)
DELTS’ SPRINKLE AND LINGLE (R) OUTRUN E’S CARTER (L)
tow Hurdle Action In Wotneatay' s Finals

Injury-Riddled Grapplers
Place Sixth In SC Meet

the 123-pound class, will wres- Bryan Pittman, and. Rick
tle in. the 115-pound division. villa are freshmen who. will help
Dean Cromartie, Kerry Keith, the varsity greatly next year.

Smith Adds Short,
Brown Jo FBStaff

oy BILL RICHMOND
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Robert C. Brown and senior Dick Short have re
cently been named as new members to head foot
ball coach Homer Smith's staff.

Until their appointments Smith’s staff was short
one man ‘as Ken Blair left Davidson football to return

to his alma-mater Colorado.

Brown comes to Davidson from the Hampton

School system in Virginia. There, he coached foot
ball and baseball for the past year. Before this ex

perience he was head coach at Hargrave Military

Academy in Chatham, Va.

A 1959 graduate from the College of William
Brown served the next year as head coach
of George Wythe Junior High School, Hampton, Va.,
and in the following year he served as a graduate
mn

and Mary,

coach at his alma mater, where he got his B.S

Physical Education.

Brown is married and has two children Chery!

Kataryn, 4, and Scott Christopher, 1!

“J; met Bob around a year ago and am very
pleased he has decided to join our program. He is
— motivated to coach college football,” said

Coach Smith.
“We are extremely pleased to find a man of hi
caliber and experience to complete our organization
He'ping Brown will be Dick Short,
member of the senior cl:

aSs.

program
the following summer to enter seminary,

temarked Smith, “Dick will help in our overall
program, He, Coach Brown and I will work with
which ever unit (offense or defense) looks better.
These two men are fine additions to the
program.”

Tra

presently a
Dick’s job will be to
help Brown principally on the freshman level, to help
in the scouting chores, and to help in the recruiting
After the season Dick plans to travel and

Wildcat

Catfish

By DON SEWELL
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s Wildcat swim-
ing team finished fourth in
the Southern Conference
swim meet hei Thursday,
Friday, and Saiurday at the
Citadel in Charleston.

Teams from William & Mary,
Carolina, Citadel, West Virginia,
and VMI also swam in the meet
which East Carolina won quite
handily.

The swimmers from East
Carolina broke nearly every re-
cord for the meet in winning all
but two events. The two events
they lost, one to VMI and one to
William & Mary, were record
breaking times.

Behind East Carolina followed

S C MEET

VMI, then West Virginia and
fourth Davidson. West Virginia
took a second in the last event,
the 800 yard free style relay, to
barely edge out the ‘Catfish for
third by four points.

Coach Tom Stevens’
swimmers for the meet
Bris Rogers, Jim Stokes, John
Helm, Tom Irons, Rich Holt,
Steve Bardon, and the relay
teams.

leading
were

Rogers placed second in the 50
yard free style event. Stokes
swam to second place in both}
the 200 and the 100 yard butter-
flies. Helm made the ‘Ca‘s punch
two-three in the 100 yard butter-
fly by finishing third behind |)
Stokes.

Irons added points to David-|
son's score by swimming second

sh To

(Photo by

track team. participated but fail- | ; BATIK
ed to place in the Southern Con: | S BUTTON DOWN
ference Indoor Track Champion } |
> ship, Saturday, at VMI in Lex: | 1
ngton, Va } “a “4
‘Even though it - was our first a
meet, said Coach ~ Whittle, pam *

Olson)

‘ ..Phi Delts Race By Field,

¢ Capture IMAC Track Title

By DAVID KING
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons witnessed the latest version of that wild and
wooly affair known as the IMAC track meet. Jocks, former jocks, and pseudo- jocks

| turned out in moderate numbers to give their all for ego and fraternity.

The Phi Delts more than doubled their closest rival, the Betas, to run away with
first place in the meet. The Delts with 39 points and the Betas with 17 were fol-
lowed by the ATO’s with 14, the Kappa Sigs with 10, The Machis and the SPE’S
with 8, and the KA’s and Phi Gams with 7

The cold wind on Tuesday aft- aged to finish fourth on the Low hurdles (1) . Sprinkle
ernoon discouraged the usual strength of St. Clair’s ten points, (Delt). 14.1 (2) Lingle (Delt)
track attire and caused a siza Results: 100 yd. dash (1) Lin (3) Deanhardt (Phi Gam (4).
ble number of burning chests. gie (Delt) -11.0 (2) Cathey Carter (SAE)
and numb ears. (Beta) (3) Scott (ATO). (4) Ric Shot (1) Newberry (Phi Gam)

ard (Delta) 18'644"' (2). Baker (Pika) (3)

Rick Harrell, a member of Smith (Delt) (4) Keith (Delt).

220 vd. dash (1) Rikard (Delt)

the KA relay team, toed the line Discus (1) Bryan (Sigma Chi)
nonchalantly in a Gant and roll- 24.8 (2) McKellar (SPE) (3) 193 4+ (4) Murphy (ATO) (3)
ed-up slacks. Harrell, found, to Reed (KA) 4. House (Delt) Goodykoontz. (SAE) (4) Ray
his dismay, that hush puppies 440 yd. dash (1) Orsborn (Delt) (Beta) :
are no match for track shoes. -58.0 2 Blakeslee (SPE) 3. Scott High Jump (1) Starrett (KA)
Just before taking off in the (ATO) 4. Miller (Delt) 5'8"' (2) Rhodes (Delt) (3) Rice
440, Ed Armfield was convinced 660 (1) St. Clair (KSig) -1:30.5: (Reta) (4) tie Rogister (Pika)
that he could perform better 880 relay (1) Phi Delt. 1:41.5, ind Taylor (Pi Kapp)

without his overcoat. He did not, 3 qt. mile (1) St. Clair (KSig) Broad Jump (1) tie Otts (Beta)
however, attempt to perform _3-34.7 (2) Dean (ATO) (3) Howe and Mason. (SN) (3). Clark
vithout his cigarette. He lost. (gpg) (4) Barden (Sigma Chi). (ATO) (4) Meschan (Beta)

Featuring such renowned
crowd-pleasers as Barry St
Clair, Tommy Hunter, and Terry
O'Hair, the ‘three-quarter mile
run. was .a spectator’s. delight
O'Hair, obviously super-psyched
by the thrill of competition, set

a. blistering pace for the first

quarter mile

Shortly into the
Hunter, midway in the strung
out pack and sensing defeat,
stepped casually from the track }
and... melted into «the | crowd.
Tommy's absence was imme
diately recognized by his broth
er John who was quick to: in
form. fellow spectators. A. bar
rage of horrible, character-de
faming insults was hurled at
Hunter who, acting as if he had ©
| heard them all before, was
| pletely unaffected

second. lap,

com

| O’Hair’s health failed badly
}during and after the last two
}laps and St. Clair came .on
trong to win
4 small mob competed in the
igh jump... The contender n
luded such giant as Rufus
Ada M ke Dicken ind Wayne
“Beetle’ thode Adair won. the
event but was disqualified be
cause he earned a varsity t
letter last. vear so the blu
ribbon was. passed. to Jim Sta ss al ik }
‘rett. But runner up Rhode et Pee a ee
mance was by far the m SIGMA NU JIM MASON
npectacuiar... The Bete. whos Broad Jumps To Victory
wight. varies between five nine i
and five ten depending on wheth
r not his hair is. cut,-soared
over the bar at 5°8” FABULOUS DINING
Judging from. the results, the |
Phi ‘Delts seem ‘to have. some International Cuisine
thing of a monopoly: on speed,
Delts Jack » Lingle,. Paul Rikard

and Dave

OPEN KITCHEN

pledge Tony Orsborn,

Sprinkle placed first in the 100,

| 220, 440, and 1] hurdles respec

a 1318 W. Morehead
Barry. St. Clair, with a first

lin. the 660. and three-quarter PIZZA
}mile was high point winner. of

| the met

| --——

Thinclads
Cleaned
In Meet

The Kappa Sigs man

CSAN

SHIRTMAKERS

Six. members of Davidson's |

“Steve Gill ran well with a time |
2:05 for the 880 yd. run. Also
Randy Randolph had a fair dis

tance in the shot put with a toss

o!

Fourth

in the 100 yard free style event. ed second in the 400 yard medley

Holt showed strength by taking
fourth in the 200 individual med
ley and placing in both the 200
and 100 yard back stroke events.
Bardon placed sixth in the 100
yard breast stroke.
The water-loving 'Cats finish

and placed in the 400 yard free
style relay also.

Outstanding swimmer for the
meet was East Carolina's Owen

Parris who set records in the |
200 and 400 yard individual med-
leys and the 200 yard butterfly.

The

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

Monday—Friday

Hub

in the meet had already run in
at least five indoor meets."

Pipe Smokers

It will be to your advantage to visit Maison
Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and
tobacco. Maison Michel has the largest
pipe selection of domestic and imported
driars, as well as imported tobaccos. This
ad, with your Davidson !D card, will entitle
you toa

20 Per Cent Discount
on all pipe (only) purchases.

matron michel

217 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

375-9723

of 41 ft. and 11 inches. |
RICHARD HOLT HITS THE WATER “We ran in this meet just for
‘Cats Cop Fourth In Conference the experience,’ Whittle explain
ed. *‘Most of the other schools

A gentleman seeking the unusual will prefer cotton batik. This unusual
Polynesian design was inspired by the cloth worn by natives of the South
Sea Islands. Batik now gains new authority in our short-sleeved coat
model, topped by a cieanly-controlled button-down collar. It's light-
weight anc ‘uxurious for your leisure life.

GO ALL THE WAY ‘CATS. WE ARE
BEHIND YOU 100%

Bush Wilson “iD.

Davidson, N. C. Greenville, S$. C.

