FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1966

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE FIVE

Faulk
Receives
Award

Steve Faulk, freshman ‘tennis | 7
prospect, has been namefi top|

Orleans.
Coach Harry Fogleman re-

was informed that Faulk had/
been chosen.

Faulk was recently a finalist
in the Sugar Bowl tournament.
He was selected for the award ||
over all other athletes in New |
Orleans. This was a tribute]
to Faulk, as many of the former |
recipients have been much older.

Faulk has been in contact
with the committee in order to
arrange for transportation to
New Orleans later this month
in order to attend a banquet
honoring him and the other out
standing area athletes.

(Staff Photo by Purvis)

ERIC NICHOLS PLIES TRADE
Grapples In Practice With Lowell Bryan (On Bottom)

IMAC Opens

Year Lazily

The IMAC. basketball action prises. The Pikas’ success, the eggs’ team. It is patterned aft } when the game gets tight and
has found itself plagued by post- Independents’ victory, and the er the Marquette team that fail- help the first team out of trou
holiday laxity. Of the 16 games Betas’ near-victory were no- ed to win against the Wildcats. ble,”’ |
scheduled since the Christmas table. The floor leader, incompar The Pikas roared by. the Nus, |
break, only six were played as The Pikas attributed their able, inscrutable, Muldoon 42-27, and whipped the SAE‘s,
scheduled. phenomenal improvement to a Briggs, Said. “The scrambled 52 25, as a barefooted Muldoon

The week has held three sur- newly organized (7?) ‘scrambled eggs team is designed to go played courageously on the

hardwood.
Mark Brown poured in 31

Undermanned Matmen

To Play Host To

The Davidson matmen meet Emory University in Johnston Gym Thursday in an

attempt to even their record at 2-2 for the season.
The ’Cats have beaten

The varsity has been weak
ened this year due to lack of ex

Furman this year, while losing to UNC and VMI.

points to lead the Independents
to a 66-64 upset over the KA‘s.
The game was termed as the
Indies’ finest effort of the year.

2-1 Record

By K. D. WEEKS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Eric Nichols, termed by

possible,” he quips.

Of Nichols, his roommate
Barry St. Clair commented. ‘'!

his teammates as a great know Eric works hard, he comes
competitor and untiring '" tired after the normal hour
worker, has led the David- 4"¢ a half practice. His goal is
son grapplers to a 1-2 rec- ‘ be conference champ and he
ord early in this season. should win the championship,
Nichols, team captain for the he's a great competitor.”
wrestlers, has a 2-1 record of his
own which could easily be 3-0.
Conquering his 177-pound Fur
man and VMI opponents in the
first two matches, Nichols car

Nichols, leader in campus af
fairs as a member of the Honor
Court, Fellowship of Christian
Athletes and Who's Who, is
praised by wrestling coach Char

ied ¢ yrist injury into the

998 Bt — , ayy Pe t lie Parker as a fine leader on
F é atch ¢ p oa ‘a :
a rea - se a m 7 the mats. “One thing that makes
é 4 10 0 é 2 "

grappier = normaly yim valuable to the team in ad

have taken.

dition. to his ability is his tre
mendous leadership. He is en
thusiastic, loyal to the team, and
works as hard harder than
iny other wrestler, That is what

It was another teammate that
was quick to mention that “Nich
ols was suffering from addition
al injuries on his leg and shou!
der, and had no business out

or

be makes him so good.” Parker
there. PEON
% goes on to say that Nichols has
When asked of his opponents, s P
batyesh A : mproved more four year
Nichols has trouble remember :
f an anyone he has seen
ng them. “‘I try to get them in
and out of my mind as fast as ‘He makes evervone else work

|
|

Tar Babies Whip
’*Kittens, 93-65

Davidson’s Wildkittens, reassembled
Christmas holidays, ran into a hot-shootin
lina freshman team on Tuesday and absor
ond loss of the season, 93-65.

after the
North Caro-
d their sec-

The hapless Betas came with
in two angstroms of beating the
| Phi Delts. The game was ex
} tremely close until the final min
| when Beta efforts at the

Emory

| utes
| foul line failed to gain the vic
| tory. The final score was 44-39

in their respective states. Also Parker, ‘I wish I could use them |
Brian Pittman, 177 pounds, and this year—five or six of them |

In other games the Pi Kapps

defensive play against towering
Rusty Clark. Crosswhite held the
Tar Babies’ leading scorer ten
points below his average

| Exhibiting little offense, Dav

| idson fell far behind in the first
| half. Paced by Dick Gruber and
| Bill Bunting, the highly-touted
| Tar Babies rang up a 48-22 lead

Lak tee deals In. the next week, before

exams, the Wildkittens will face
three opponents. Gardner-Webb
brings their best team ever to
Charlotte Coliseum. tomorrow

Wildkittens
better
being out

However, the
clawed their way
second-half showing,

: ; ; . 5 ' a el ‘
perience in several weight Greg Simmons, a 160-pounder, could make the team right | beat the SPE’s and Cannon B) cored by the margin of a sin. night in a preliminary to the
classes. The middleweights, are promising freshmen. Said now.” whipped East A in the freshman} gle field goal. Coach Terry Hol- Davidson-West Virginia tussle
where there. should be more _ ESS feague, land commented, ‘In the first They are led by Dennis’ Chil
wrestlers than any other divi-| aay —i half we had no offense, but we dress, a former Mt, Airy star

; i ; ‘ :
sion, has the least number of} e ame back with a stronger. s¢ a : a
j ; ‘ sj : Ta as ; The Citadel will put a scrappy

experienced wrestlers | nd ha W wk forward to | Sees city

| as : a ustling ballelub on display

: jplaying them here ; « ps

Some outstanding wrestlers, Johnston Gymnasium on Tu
this veer are Joe Buffington, | 1 d by p " " |
who wrestles in the 123-pound suckel “in the

division, and heavyweight Lowell)
Bryan, both of whom have aj
record of three wins against no!

With Powerful USC Fish 22.0080 oc:

The Wildcat swimmers host a strong team from the

datents. ; “a tel University of South Caro
lina Tuesday afternoon.
Those posting 2-1 records are “South Carolina has one . of “I'm. looking for. good pe ind vacation, but T bel TT
177-pound captain Eric Nichols| e finest t ager aes - sam, formances out-of [rons, Richard’ be ready for ( lina: Tuesd
who was injured when he lost| Commented Coach — Stevens. Holt, Steve Barden, ‘Bris Rod- Sto avidson’s. on!
to Carolina. and Martin Miller,! “They had a crack freshman ger John Helm, and Jim > swimm
win wrestle n. the 130. and! team last year, ind asa result ’Stol idded Stevens. *'Stok r i ks have a
139-pound classes most. of their: stars are. sopho- missed the last three. week wd ) UNC, 6
| mores of workouts because of ilnes ! the nation
Said Coach Parker, “It's g0:| Leading the Gamecocks will
ing to be a long. season—we pe British Empire’ champion
don't have arly experienced boys} John Marrato of Australia. ‘This
in three or four weight divisions boy can swim any event,” re-| GASKEY & NEILL
and that’s what is hurting us."’! marked Coach Stevens, “but I|
he res tes says! ‘ . ‘ |
The Freshman team. Sa¥5/ pelieve they plan to use him in|

Coach Parker, “is probably the) the 50-yard free style.”
best freshman team as a whole} Opposing. Marrato in ° that
I've ever had.” fevent will be sophomore Tom
There are. several outstand | Irons, whom Coach Stevens be
ing yearling wrestlers on the | lieves holds the school record
team this year. Kerry Keith, the | in the 200 yard free style with
Virginia High School ‘State,;® Mme of 2:24 minutes,
Champion, wrestles heavyweight] Davidson enters the meet with
but only weighs 177 pounds.|a 2-1 record, sinking Wake For
Colin Hudson, 123 pounds, was'est and The Citadel while losing

FLORIST & GIFTS

Phone 662-368 |
383-385 N. Main St
Mooresville,
N.C.

the runner-up for the Virginia} to Virginia. According to Coach
state title in his weight divi-}Stevens, ‘I've been rather
sion. pleased with the team so far,
The boys have been working
real hard to get back in shape
after the Christmas’ break.”

Dean Cromartie, a 123-pound
er, and 152-pound Rick Travilla
were also exceptional wrestlers

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere ;

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL
STEAK HOUSE

1800 West Morehead Street

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST
IN

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Sat. Night — Tues. Night

Let us clean up your sports clothes

and wash your good shirts.

Main St.—Across From The Gulf Station

Pipe Smokers

It will be to your advantage to visit Maison
Michel for your pipe, pipe accessories, and
tobacco. Maison Michel has the largest
pipe selection of domestic and imported
oriars, as well as imported tobagcos. This
ad, with your Davidson |D card, will entitle
you toa

20 Per Cent Discount
on all pipe (only) purchases.

Maison Michel

217 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C,

Nichols Captains Grapplers

change him
" comment-

class, but might
by tournament time,
ed Coach Parker.

harder because of his own eager
commented fellow wres
pounds Nichols will

ness,

tler. At 177

probably stay in ‘the same Parker was optimistic about
class he has been in, although Nichols’ chances of taking the
there is a_ possibility of his conference championship in the

tournament. Before that there
will be one match in January
and five more in February.

dropping ten pounds and wres
tling in the class one bracket
lower. ‘'We need him in the 177

2 ee. | rman notes aga

—

*hoto by Sproul)

WAYNE HUCKEL DRIVES FOR EASY BUCKET
Freshmen Flash Scores In Recent Action

the newest Detroit sound

comes from a combo

called 4-4-2

BC;

3

«+. én @ Rocket Action Car/

TOROMADO + KINETY-EIGHT + DELTA 68+

OLDS

Up-tempo all the way. With a 400-cube V-8 and 4-barrel carb to carry
the lead. Heavy-duty front and rear suspension to smooth the beat.
Acoustically tuned twin pipes to modulate the sound. And red-line
tires to keep the whole score on track. That’s 4-4-2. Try about four bars
today. It’s your kind of music! LOOK TO OLDS FOR THE NEW!

OBILE .

+442
