Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Louis LESESNE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CuHRIs HAWK
Business Manager

FRIDA. © ~ 3 1966

Letter

Misplaced P

A minor point in the aftermath to |

last week's Trustee meeting has come
out; In the President's Report to the
Board. the business manager reports
that a total of $175.000 will be spent
on improvements ‘o the athletic fa-
cilities. primarily on Richardson
Field.

We were somewhat amazed at this
figure, in light of a DAVIDSONIAN
article of Mav 21. 1955. reporting on
the $50,000 Richardson Foundation
Grant which made the improvements
possible The grant was to be award.
ed contingent on the college : raising
a@ matching amount for use ¢~ °**
stadium repairs

At ‘hat time there was appar ~~
come -cnfusion as “c ‘Thatine a ~
would ve used for, Footbz.. ¢
Homer Smith: Athletic Dire:
Scott and Trustee represeniz=
the Athletic Council Tom Spzrz>
were reported as expressing ©
certainty a3 to wha’: use
made of the funds.

‘- =-* the most specific things ~1a*
could oe mentioned were the needs
for stadium lighting and a “pretty iit-
tle field.” to be effected by the addi-
tion.of some red and white trimming.

Not only is the $175.000 figure
somewnat different from tne original
one of $100.000 we think it a little
excessive.

No one denies the need for athletic
improvement, but certain measures
must be given priority. and ‘such
athletic modifications are not among
‘the most pressing needs of the college.

In the same report. Dean of the
Faculty Frontis Johnston points to the
increasingly stiff competition with
other institutions in the recruitment
of faculty members. Five depart-
ments here are in need of permanent
faculty members. and recruitment is
becoming more difficult.

The reasons cited by Dean John-
ston for lack of interest of potential
faculty members are the inadequacy
of. the library and heavy teaching
loads. Neither of these shortcomings
can be remedied without sacrifice. and
jt seems that one of the best places
to start would be in the area of un-
necessary physical improvements.

It is ironic that the paragraph fol-
lowing the $175.000 figure notes that

Where To Put The

The perplexing question of where
to put the cars on campus is a per-
sistent problem that encourages no so-
lution in the immediate future.

As the ultimate solution. we offer
the plan adopted by the administra-
tion of Lawrence University in Ap-
pleton. Wis.: Students there are sim-
ply forbidden to operate any motor
vehicle on campus.

There are several aspects which
would make such a plan attractive.
Lawrence’s dean of men makes a fair-
ly obvious point: Such a plan would
end the mass weekend exodus to near-
by cities.

“An important part of the students’
education,” says the dean, “is ac-
quired in the dorms on weekends and
in leisure time. by a process of osmo-
sis, in bull sessions for instance.”

If the plan works at Lawrence. a
coed school, it should be doubly suc-
cessful at Davidson, without the dis-
tractions of female companionship to
distract the student from such a vital
part of his education as weekend bull
sessions.

But several Lawrence students have
pointed out that the ban on cars in-
terferes with the student’s education
in that it restricts his attendance at
cultural events at nearby cities such

ol it
§20.000 have been used in improving
Jibrary facilities. a paltry sum com-
pared with the athletic improve-
ments.

Furthermore. if improvements are
to be made in the existing athletic
facilities we would urge them to be
directed towards the equipment which
would be .used by the student body
at large. rather than that which would
benefit the -relative few engaged in
intercollegiate sports.

The buik of the expenditures
have gone for such items as replacing
the stadium seats and building public
rest rooms. 2 dorm for visiting teams
and a pres¢box: all are items primar-
itx for big-time intereollegiate spec-
“210F SPOTtS.

ths strikes us as an effort to
widson something it isn't: a

= big name intercollegiate
"WEF

S rcess this week of the golf and
rennis teams in sweeping the con-
ference meets over their subsidized
opponents presents quite a contrast
witb the headlines caused bv a sin-
gle athlete's decision not to play bas-
ketball at Davidson.

Athletics are fine. but they must be
kept-in the proper perspective of a
liberal arts institution.

Almost There

Davidson seems to have a way of
almost making it to the big time. The
Charlotte Observer reported this
morning that in a Wednesday speech
President Johnson referred to Wood-
row Wilson's studving at ‘‘a small col-
lege in North Carolina. He went to
classes every day beneath a portal
which bore the inscription ‘Let: Learn-
ing Be Cherished Where Liberty Has
Arisen.” * ;

But no mention of the name of the
school — a double insult since the
President was speaking at Princeton.
the schoo] that took Wilson in when
the going got too tough at Davidson.

We're reminded of a story in the
Saturday Evening Post several vears
ago which related that before studving
at Oxford. Dean Rusk attended “a
small liberal arts college in North
Carolina.” Period.

Cars

as Milwaukee and Madison.

While this admittedly is a compli-
cation. we believe that no plan is per-
fect and that for the sake of expe-
diency the Davidson student will be
willing to forego an occasional opera
in order to solve the pressing prob.
em.

The plan offers encouragement in
another direction. One Lawrence fac-
ulty member points out that it cuts
down on the social advantage car
owners have over .non-owners. “Un-
fortunately, a red Cadillac can turn a
girl’s head.” he says. The problem at
Davidson would be solved on two
fronts: Not only would no one have
a red Cadillac. he would see no girl to
show it to.

Keep On Pumping

Any other time it would have passed
unnoticed. It was only a passing re-
mark by the Rev. Carlyle Marney, Sun-
dav’s Vespers speaker.

But with the year drawing to an end
and exams staring us in the face, we
thought it especially appropriate that
Mr. Marney advise us that “as long
as there’s the slightest bit of hope,
we pump.”

Associate Editors _.____JOHN BAILEY
ARCH McCALLUM

PAUL MARION
Managing Editors ____._-.. SAM BOYTE
BOB TRAVERS

Assistant Managihg Editors
CHARLES McEWEN
KERN PARKER
Sports Editor TOM COOK
Assistant Sports Editors YATES FAISON
BOB REID

News Editor __...____ ROBBIE HOOKER

Feature Editor LINDSAY DAVIS
Copy Editor BILL SEIGLER
Photographers BILL OLSON
GEORGE PURVIS

Cartoonists LOU HILL
BOB HOLLADAY

JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager BILL WATSON
Advertising Manager ._ MIKE JOHNSON
Circulation Manager —____.- JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Bruce Weihe. Grey Pash. Jim Cooley, Mark Robinson,
Rob Powell, John Williams. Chuck Green. Terry Sonnonstine, Rick Mildner.
Billy Farr, Kent Gladstone, Brodie Brown, Cameron Ferguson. Mike Bates,
Carter. Fussell, Al Varner, Ed Embree. Mike May, K. D. Weeks, Cliff Duke.
Charles Elliott. Joel Keys. John Wessell, Peter Guerrant, George Cretekos, ~

Dick Richards, Ed Dwelle, Geoff Seamans.

THE DAVIDSONIAN Is published by the
students of Davidson College weekly during
the school year except examination periods
and holidays. Subscription vate: $4.00 per
year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE
DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C.
22036. Enfered as second class matter at
Davidson, N. C.

ane see ee~Y —*

v4

‘TO SEE WHERE WE HAVE BEEN’

Ee 2p ws -aa

Cat 0

= Nine Tails

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON

b
marr ow

Quo vadimus? Four years have
Sifted down to a few last weeks. Ex-
cept for a very few. all of us seniors
face the prospects of graduate school.
here or elsewhere.

Among the more distinguished
fellowships this vear is the Robert Mc-
Namara Fellowship to the University
of South Viet Nam. soon to open a
branch in the North Several fortunate
seniors hold these awards.

So where we are going is a topic
best put aside for the moment. Per-
haps it'might be more pertinent to see
where we have been.

UNWORDED GOAL

Probablv the unworded goal of us
all was to have a succesful. college
experience — growth and develop-
ment in the intellectual arena. the
social scene. the athletic mark and the
religious experience. That Davidson
stresses development of the whole

Vespers: 1966

From Associated College Press

Students and professors have
been sticking their academic
tongues out, saying ‘“‘bleah!"’ to
the university lately, says the
lowa State Daity.

The couldn’t-care-less sickness
they all suffer from js not sud-
den or unusual, but now dur-
ing the post-midterm, pre-final
period it’s especially pro-
nounced. It has afflicted even
the most enthusiastically resist-
ant.

The symptoms are easy to
detect. The professor looks out
onto a sea of blank faces and
mechanically asks. ‘“‘Are there
any questions over this mate-
rial?” And the class sits vege-
tating, waiting for the profes-
sor to switch into low and con-
tinue with the next page of
notes. Possibly, the funny lit-
tle guy who sits in the third
row might raise his hand; wheth-

a

man is one of the best features of its
purpose.

In the intellectual area the usual
problems arise: most students are too
apathetic to regard their classes and
outside work as anything more than
a necessary nuisance: many professors
conduct their classes in a manner
guaranteed to kill enthusiasm in_all
but the most determined students. The
library is understocked. unstaffed. un-
derdeveloped and not‘understood.

INTELLECTUAL MINGLING

But the aspect I want to single
out here is the amount of intellectual
fraternization — the: mingling of stu-
dents and professors at Open Ends.
guest lectures. over a cup of coffee and
the like. .

A pretty good indicator of the in-
tellectual enthusiasm on campus is
how much of this intellectual fraterni
zation is going on. During the past
vear I took notes to see what groups

by Hill

er he does or not, everyone sits
expectantly, waiting for him to
Come Up With Something.

A professor might try a line
of attack, if he feels at all mo-
tivated, by making a distorted
statement—a le—just to get
class feedback, punctuated with
How-Does-That-Grab-You? writ-
ten all over his face. The chal-
lenge is greeted like a fuzzy
sucker.

Classroom attendance falls off
by a third. Eight o’clocks look
like an incomplete study in
sleep. Students become obses-
sed with Anything Unacademic.
They complain of being 13 weeks
behind: they say its The Weath-
er, it's Spring Fever. it’s Be-
ing Close to Graduation.

No one really cares what it is.
Students settle back and gaze
at the professors and the pro-
fessors gaze back at the stu-
dents.

Well, here we are...

Senior Reviews The Davidson Experience

of students and professors showed up at a wide va-
riety of campus events.
As regards the professors: In the humanities
there are many men who attend regularly a wide
range of events, from athletic to musical. Partic-
ularly certain men in the Philosophy, Bible, English
and History Departments should he singled out for

their interest.
‘ HALLUCINATION :

With the exception of a few men in the sciences
and the math departments, the sight of a man from
one of these departments in campus events is usu-
ally a hallucination. The men in the music and
athletic departments, because of the unusual time
requirements of their jobs, were generally exclud-
ed from this survey—but few of these men are seen
outside their respective areas.

PHILOSOPHY MAJORS

What shocked me was that a student’s atten-
dance and participation in intellectual events could
be tvped by his major, a few exceptions in every
field. Proportionally the participation award must
go to the philosophy majors, who turn up at every-
thing from athletic meets fo concerts. ;

Close behind them come the Bible, English, and
math majors. The history majors lagged not far
behind in overall participation. Surprisingly enough
the pre-meds and the business-economics majors
were about even—-even below the history majors.

ENTHUSIASM ;

There is much more intellectual enthusiasm
among students than many professors and profes-
sional critics realize. But ‘there is still not enough:
Robert E. Lee speaking at Open End couldn’t draw
more than 150 students and 5 professors, half of
which turned up at the Union at the right time
by accident.

THE SOCIAL SCENE

As far as the social scene is concerned, David-
son men have reputations for throwing good parties
(what few they do throw) and being good dates—if
they're in fraternities. There are here also the usual
problems regarding the fraternity system, the loca-
,tion of the campus, the need to drink. ~

Here many professors imagine students as be-
ing perpetually party-going, absent from school on
weekends. I find there is much, much less of this
than expected. While a great many students go off
campus on weekends, this school as a suitcase college
is not quite that.

CHARLOTTE

On any given weekend there are usually be-
tween six and seven hundred students who go no
further than Charlotte and who return to campus.
to sleep.

The problem of getting students back to campus
on Sunday night is grossly exaggerated. Saturday
and Sunday night are the prime date nights, but the
majority of students leave campus for the entire
weekend an average of once per month—I would
estimate.

APOLOGY UNNECESSARY

There is no need to apologize for spending a
great amount of time in one's college career in so-
cial activities. Indeed the school should take time.
out from its academic calendar to provide for things
like dance-weekends and night club circuits.

Whatever the causes for our failures in the in-
tellectual arena, Davidson men’s whirl on the so-
cial scene at worst is only a symptom of these fail-
ures and not a cause. A man can have a good so-
cial life from Davidson, but the campus “suitcase
image” is a legend that should be buried.

; THE ATHLETIC WORK

Aside from the excesses in our own professional
branch of athletics, most Wildcats do participate
regularly either in intercollegiate or intramural
sports. Intra-murals should get much more atten-
tion and recognition than our Athletic Department
now gives them, since it is here that the athletics
touch the student most often. _ .

While there is much student enthusiasm over
football and basketball, the other intercollegiate
sports are usually neglected by the spectators. This
situation is not unique to Davidson alone.

_ SICK CHEERLEADERS
_ Our uniqueness is that most student enthusiasm
is exhausted simply by the act of showing up at a
contest—recently our cheerleaders have seemed
struck the hardest by this malady.

_ Rarely «re faculty members seen at any ath-
letic contests. Those who do show up, those few, are
usually regulars or coaches had on the athletic com-
mittees. Perhaps most professors feel too old for
this kind of enthusiasm. P

RELIGIOUS EXPERIENCE

No other area of the college experience is neg-
lected in the way as are the activities and institu-
tions of the Christian Church. Perhaps this is a good
nae articularly if it is a step towards a greater

maturity.
LITTLE SIGNIFICANCE

But actually Pve overstated the case, because
the activities of Christianity on this campus have
as little significance to students as the hiring of an-
other athiete.

Not the religious aspect of Vespers causes stu-
dent resentment, as does the compulsory aspect
of sitting through what is usually one of the most
unprofitable hours in a student's career.

JUSTIFIED INDIFFERENCE

Another one of my many opinions is that much
of this student indifference to organized Christianity
has some justification and value.

_ _ But what is frightening about this indifference
is its failure also to reflect upon the problems with
which religious thinkers have wrestled. The problem
or evil, the nature of the man, the questions of moral
t re is little more than passing i st
fisplayed by students. Passing intere

Perhaps we are too removed from the city, too
isolated and provincial to develop mature religious
CORVICLIONS, ONDERFUL

f EXPERIENCE
_ Beyond all this Davidson College can be proud
of its many accomplishments. What problems there
are both with students and the institution I am con-
fident can be overcome. A man can have a meaning-
ful four years here that will remain for him a won-
derful experience.

I've enjoyed writing columns these two years,
under three pretty good editors. There are some
other kudos that must be presented:

; SOMETHING LEARNED
_ _ First, to each of the men under which [ve stud-
ied: there is something that I learned from each one
of you and there was much more that I should have
learned.

Second, to the general student body and admin-
istration: your calm reception of my opinions I sa-
lute as a sign of your tolerance rather than of your
agreement or indifference.

It's been a great four years here. Good luck to
you all and here's hoping you have a memorable col-

ege experience. See you at the class reunion.
