TOM COOK

l SPORTS EDITOR

" Point , |
|The " After

ESCALATION BREEDS ESCALATION

The rising controversy concerning tickels at the
Charintte Coliseum haz finally hit the ceiling. On your
Uckels far the Princeton game Thursday will be stamped
“Complimentary,” which means that it can be used oniv
by you for yourself. Wf you buy a date ticket, it will be
marked similar to the football date tickots.

The question to which no answer has been offered
is what has motivated the Athletic Department, and the
Athletic Director in particular, to go to such pains to
isolate the students and restrict their actions. From the
crowds we have drawn So far, it is obvious that a lack of
tickets Is not the motivating factor. Since the price of
tickets has been increased, lack of adequate revenue
should not be the reason either.

Backtracking to sect the scene for the events forth-
coining, let’s consider the situation. In past years a Da-
vidson student picked up his ticket along with his friends
al the teket office UW all of his friends were also goln
to the game, he would buy a date ticket alt the fu
price . _ _ . ves. fall price. of $2.50 for the mezzanine
where all students sii now.

Sinea much of the dating to basketball games was
done during the week. students were able to stud it out
several nighis a week without excceding their funds, No
one ever complained about the practice of giving tickets
to other studenis even when every game was a sellout.
The stuclents were happy, ate lots of popcorn and made
lots of noise. Going to Charlotte was almost a5 much fun
as velling at Mel Thompson of The Citadel in the gym.

A minor chango occurred last year which complied

Wolves, VMI

he
fa .

As Threats To ’Cats

Facing one of their sternest tests of the yotng season if scouting reports prove
‘s Lagions face the Wolverines of the University of Michigan at Ann

correct, Lefty
Arkor tomerrov,

Game time is 21:30 p, m. for the tilt which will be televised in the Davldsdu area

By OOM SEWELL
Sperts Writer

by WSOC-TV and broadcast over WET.

Tuesday the “Cats put their 1-0 Southern Conference revord én the firing line
as they journey to Lexington. Va. ta meet VMI, follawed by a Thursday night game

with Princeton ai the Charlotte Coliseum,

Freelman Coach Terry Bol-
Jund. why soauiod Sichuan Taxl
aveckenh Thaed crude pepe
(hor thelz dean. '“Taep are bie
od anc Aken far pias, they
prulel pa-dhiby be tae toughest
teant we will Eave al) gear.” At
{nigh C serle Rusesell anit tris
Pyar «<terting
uct Arava squgd bave graid
joated. HinMtetod warcter Etat pf ect
ay aamald act te tama um
hiabiTy-

“Roney nit with appclene La

Cralat DoH, whi aE Lea:

—

»y a)

Laninenndes Tron.

Makes alm formidable [ends
and on the tonrd-, Bennie Stew:
erl, a 6-6 espltamore forp ard, .+
pepeciod to be iroubinsome un:
derteath aha.

Conch Lely Delescll wat quack
ta point cnt abet, alitdustttin Wen
mun leet tte dirst kewo pinmued ‘iy’
szbik mars’ns to Dake ant
Porneveve, bulb af diese logaes
cam un the rodd. In thea home
dubot, ite Waleerine beat Fru -
hwo. peeslowmis tated  fismines
Gye in a paiheal poll “Ano
Artiwe. Michigan, is an awhile

Ticket Procedures Deserve Explanation

with student requests. instead of hoving reserved sents,
entire sections were reserved for students, saving every-
one the trouble of rounding up a big crowd to go to the
gym together to get tickels.

Thon came this yenr. For some renson. Davidson
students were required lo show their ID's slong with
thelr tickets at a special pate, Perhaps someone gol the
idea from the Social Council's methods at Love Auditor-
fan. The major difference was the philosophy applied.
The Social Council anly wistied le asture that every stu-
deat who wanted a seat got onc before outsiders were ad-
mitted. This purpose was already belng accamplished
before the current rules were employed at the Charlotte
Colizeum.,
Why has the Athletic Department chozen {o treat uz
like children? Last week anyone who forgot their 1D
could walk through any gate with their ticket. Most stu-
dents felt that making as present identification was strict-
ly an harrassing action. Il was really an asinine move on
the part of the powers-tr-ba. All the seats were reserved
again. Last week wos a rinky-dink return to the Dark

es. ;
. Tho students were svidently nat too happy. Accus-
tomed to being treated Ie men, they reacted against the
Athletic Department's actions. It is doubtful that as much
as half of the student body had seen the most exciting
team we have ever Helded before Tuesday night, Dales
were few. How do you impress a girl that Davidsan
basketball fs big league when yuur administration treats
you like a child and funnels you through a single gate
and makes you exhibit your ID when you have a ticket
which says you are entitled to a seat in the Coliseum?

And frankly, we on the flaor of the Coliseum had 10
strain to hear any student support after the introductions.
About 100 Duke students snd their brand sested behind
their team made more noise Friday night than the Davic-

son student body did either Thursday or Saturday night. ticket policy shoutd have

cheering fram a Davidson student section. Uniappy stu-
dents who think they are being treated to lucy than they
deserve are quict students. It took seme of the luster
from a cage season which promises to he a great one.

Now the newest ticket restrictions. What do they
mean? Out student tickets are included in the $100 active
ty fee, But what Dr. Tam Scott plains to do, in essence,
means that a student Ucket in the garbage can is pre-
ferabie to a fillad saai whase occupant is making noise
and eating popcorn, It's not frec-londing to use another
student's ticket for a date because that ticket is paid for.
If you ge to the gym and pick up your ticket and then
don't ga, your seat 1s going to be empty. Hence conces-
sions are less and attendance is lower. Does that make
sense? Sounds like a case of misplaced values to me.

Consider these questions:

Is it possible that by giving students some type of
discount on Coliseum date tickets the increase in the
number of dates would offset the abnormally-low number
of girls who are being invited to sit In a full-price seat.

is it really necessary to stamp student tickets with
distincliva markings to prevent students from transfer-
ring thelr tickets when the tickets themselves bear no
non-transferrable clause?

Do we have to make students pay excessively ta at-
fond a college fonction. when for less maney and irauble,
they can go elsewhere and expect to be treated with no
restrictions?

Since there sre obviously plenty of unsold ckels,
why can’t the students use their Uckets as they wish?

Why did all this mess get started anyway? Thus is the
students’ team. Are we so money-hungry that we have to
exploit the students also? . s

It is time to realize ihat the stuctents are the

people
wito keep this college going
e

There is no reason why the
en changed from last year.

People commented to me that they had never heard less The welfare of the students should always be In mind

Loom

fouzh place to plas boll, Wo wil
teally have to te up.” addod
Driesell.

Rex. Tuesdiny's aan a amit
the Keydets of WEI will ave
the ‘Cats their secund oanfer-
ence tela, After a win ores Fare-
mon. Davison wlll be ae ta
preacrve Tis oniscaten mark at
the wapense af mew ‘Canc Gary
MePhersim Tho Kepdets are din
o pebnilding vear, traving lest
tar wt dost veae’a sturiera

The mv geben back dor
MePaersut's squad ia Satis Kecae
per, ct playaenudine puard. Bab
ayers, nb Teerve Inst sensi
will be seeing anthon of a for.
yard sint- Slove Powars, anothor
suo from last year. will ploy In
the wentet spot. Both Ayers and
Poets are 66 and. tomether
with sophomore Denny Chirk,
wan t+'G4, will pravide thee Rey-
dets' twig.

Tn the game next Thursday,
tie ‘Cats go apiinst a tiagis
Princes wam. Chasen to ala
the ivy League tidie in gere-aedis

Six Subs

HUCKEL GETS STEP ON PITT
Takes Yaungdale Feed In 97-59 Romp

Share Spotlight;

Lefty Beams Over Bench

when policies are formulated. In the past Athletic De-
partment decisians were generalty in the interest of the
sludents, Now the question is who if going to benefit by
the announced policy of the Athletic Department.

To trea? a student like a child is unforgivable. To
belittle him in front of his date is inconsiderate. To make
him pay exorbitantly for something he, of all people,
should be given priority consideration is wrong.

Ht Is time for the Athletic Department to prow up
in some of its policies. We still tove basketball as we
showed Tuesday night. The good old days are not gone
forever. Treat the students as men and they will act as
men. Treat them as children and everyone will be
genuinely sorry.

There is still time to rectify this situation. But not
much time, The student body is unhappy and if the sit-
uation comes to Its unintended but inevitable reacton,
half of sections F and J will be empty and most of sec-
tions of G and J will be the same when Davidson takes
the caurt next Tuesday against George Washington. It
will be a black mark against the school and the persons,
who in the end, caused it. For the sake of the team, if
for nothing else, there must be a change.

Davidsonian Sports

' PAGE FOUR DECEMBER 6, 1966

Defense Strangles

12 Hoopster Foes

Devidsun’s tight man-for-man
defense clamped down tard this

‘ weol, and put the serews on Pitt

and Purman to tring the sopho-
meore-studded ‘Cats to a 3-0
record before tomorrow's bottle
With Michigan.

“T was readily happy with the

| @elonse our boys put up,” sald
1 Fiend Coach Lefty Driesell after

the tilts. “We should never have

“| 9 bad night aofensively.” added
, furward Tom Youngdale.
The ‘Cats launched the week's.

blitz with 07.49 triumph over

i shevt, alow Pitt. While the Wild-
, eal defense

held the visitors”
offense in cheek. guard Wayne
Hucke! ignited Lhe home team’s
attack fixe with un explosive 16-
point clfart, while Youngdnla,
Rod Knowlea and Pave Moser

q Also hit fn double figures.

“Anytime we eno hold a tcam
tu-under 60 points, we should
wit the game.‘ Driesell sad.

Pures slow defense allowed
the “Cats to employ a bevy of
fast brenics. “We were yory glad
to get to work the fast brenics
as much na we did.” Huck!
sald,

The Paladins came iw Joten-

ston Gyn Twesdity and bemt yeith
an 84-71 humillation, their first
of the season in three contosts..
Ceach Frank Selvy's quintet
oozed through the first half with
a stallisg, Jow-key offense die
signed to keep the ball in Pals.
din hands 38 bong as possible.

But Davidson's hawking man
for-man pross and hustling re-
pound actlon broke the Paladin
Strategy, while the Huckel-led
offense built a sleatiy lead
throughout the night.

Huckel led the “Cat tallies
with £9 points, while Don Web.
stee was high man for the losers
with 23, ,

“Our boys -did a really fine
job lrandling the slaw game.”
Driesall aaid. “It didn’t bother
us because of aur pood defense.
Our rebounding was o Lttle off,
but that it to be expected againtt
a atall,” Beloroll said he expects
zeveral other opponents to use
the stall tactic this season.

While Hucke! agaln paced the
home tenm’s eooring, Youna-
dele hit 1M, and Knowles und
Scott; Sinnack chalked up 15
pulnis apleos.

Duke Added Next Year

Duke, Davidson's tonglime athictic rival, will re-
turn to the Wildcat cage schedule next season, of-
ficials of both schools confirmed this week.

The ‘Cats and the Blue

Devils, both of whom are

Son pulls, the Tigers are off and
tactile. Envi win tts flrst
thred clintints, Peincetan ts ex.
pacted io be undeloated coming
2p next wees"s alnah.

Coscn Bill van Breda Kolff's

, Quintet has knooked off strong

“| tanmsa from Latavetie and Villa-

f a
KNOWLES SPRINGS
Owarts Pitt Jumpar

“HE FLIES THROUGH THE AIR WITH THE GREATEST OF EASE”
High-flying Tany Orsbon Pulls Elgin Baylar Move On Pitt

nova, Tavy ale) beat Army an
the Weat Pom caourt—ao menial
Jaak, as Army ia alsw ktrimg
this season, and their record at
bore ks hmpeesalvoly succenntist.

Ea Heeneor wot Jono Hnor-
bow, buth &4, ond at Boo Brown

4 crvate o formidabic rebounding

pletate. Gary Wolters and Jew
Heer sdd speed. Perhuns

, Princeton's heightest biope ie

£9 sophitinmre Chris Thomlarde,
whan Elirtied with BL Bradlev*~

, freshman econeds bast yeae, Von
. Broda Kolff says biz ontlonk ts

“relatively aptlmistic,” and tho
fart store of hia Tigars aewms to
Justify hts optimism.

By CLIFF DUKE
Sparts Weitoe

List Snturday night the Davidson Wildcats blasted the Pitt Panthers off the Char-
lotte Collseum court — and in the provess. every reserve contributed to the scoring.
Returning to the campus against Furman, the same stx players again flashed the poise
and scoring potential rarely displayed by ‘'seconcl-stringers.”

Fine neq effect has Canots Lefty
DrbesoN convinced that he Eral-
ly posacases the depth and bench
strandth inakiag on ls pravions
tapiadsa, “IT tave all she con't
dence in the world that there
guys can helo us win, T weutletis’:
be nu bik wurzied if T hed te
glavt any gne of then."

The differenoc In thale ablild’e
Bod those wf the starters 1s, a+
Drievel) hagpity admits, vier
allaht, Incked. it atwold be. for
three of the alx reserves stucted
for bast, year's 12-4 Frentenate
teum., two ollwees san condcer-
able action an that same sound.

white ile other came tn David
aon 03 0 highly neclitsmedl funiar
coflede transtor.

Mike O'Nolll, no peep Afl-
American wlth an endtecs eopat
dalre af shots, is considered the
sixth man. O'Nelll, in average
M.7 fast yonr, tnilled many of
tis HN Feld gonla with spectacu
lar atf-halnnee Jump shot. He
paced the reserves agningl Piqs
. — baean with cl@it polnts
r Tn thy opening contest with
Wake Farest. slander Rogky
Crosawhite wha surmmooed to
Ml the breach cranted when
Rieewy Knowles became snddiod
vith thrve fouls. Crosswhn to peo.
vided m Fine jou on tho board:
in a crucial altestsan, Much tm.
peaced avor hia frevhmon soa
sen. fecording 10 Delosoll, bn
win be cowed ap heavily os the
ABAEON PYOMTCARRS

Deterell lndteated his sntiabive-
tion With AMike Sponn's effart is
the @urman wis fs adiditton, be
tailiod six points in the sacrifices

-
b | £"
tall Phot by Weems)

pounder ~ln sauled down a

Frodh-leodion 8. per cuates:.
while still finding Sime tu xcor
at a 16.2 ofp.

Mike Diexens and Vony Or:
bon were obtstanling freshmat
puserors Inet aenson, D cxens,
wha Mlpped in six prolnts a Rare.
exhibits smmnutt moves ant &
fine acueracy and a Fw scoring
soueh tanm aconnd the Unnket.

Orabon emnnmtributed 4.7 polit
per pace tie Jest yeier's spun.
His leaping ability excltes tio
fana — ooly 6-3. he can tuak
dine balk with beth bands.

Bob Pichwns, & transter Fram
Brevard Junioe Cotlege. Js ono

of the most vadantie "Cits.
Playing behind Dave Moser at
the point. be has quarierbackod
the team well and ployed goad
defense.

Piokens safilel Eve podcnis
agains: the Purple Palad ms. but
he pleased tae cruwd and Dele-
soll mse whith hie spectseulur
peneainy abililey.

Delesell coamtimetded all the
rosorves for “thelr autstinding
hustle ond atifiede in practice
as well os in the games. We de
pend on thom to pirsh our start.
oes onl they nye done so with
determination.”

SOPH IS TOP GUN

Huckel Paces Class, Cagers

By 80B REID
Assistant Sports Editor

Sophomore guard Wayne
fluckel said he came to Da-
yiison because of its eduea-
tional and athletic advan-
tages. His teachers and
voaches ean agree be hos
gotten the mast out of both.

Huckel, wine 2.7 oenlemc
Deernge eonsx sixties fr lala atagn,
has been tue tending scorer for
tha ‘Cate this season, averaging
HX poms per game.

*“Hockel has dnac a real great
job," said Head Coach Lefty

of Pt. Spoos ts a rugged ce Briuavil. “Bait Pm not surperized,

We knew he had wit lt takes,”

L

The &4% payohology = imojor
fooen Oranherd, N. J, indached
his varsity career with an 18-
poltt perarmance againat nn
Wake Foress qu thet, while hulti-
ing Ail Acncelcan candidale Pual
lang to o paltry <x palnts.
When the “Cats returned to the
Cullseam to moot Pitt, Buchel
blanied the samprattion’s delonse
with ansther 131 tallies.

Then Farmon's Palatins leh
ie sting af Buckel's sizzling
accuracy Tuesday night aa the
soph star nodded 18 palnis to his
sjoockng total.

Delesell = =oprakati | Anehiel’s
huuthing, shooting ami desire.
He (Hocsel) doors o Faw §ob

no strangers to national-ranking charts, wil! clash at
Durhain on Jan. 2, 1968 to inaugurate the new four-
year series. —

The rest of the schedule includes games at the
Charlotte Coliseum on Feb. 19, 1969; at Greensboro
on Feb. 18, 1970, and in Chartatte on Feb. 17, 1971.

The two schools terminated their last series in
Durham in February, 1964, on a little less than
friendly terms. Duke won the encounter 85-78, and
the defeat caused bitter feelings to many Davidson-
jans and particularly Head Coach Lefty Driesell,
who charged that Duke Head Coach Vie Bubas
“won't play me at home."

Duke has finished in the top 10 for the last six
years. The ‘Cats, who are undefeated this season
after three games, have won 20 or more games. for
thw last four seasons and have finished in the top 10
nationally twice.

“We are delighted to have a school of Duke’s
academic and athletic stature on our schedule for
four years,” said Davidson Athletle Director Dr.
Tam Scott. “We look forward to a fine seasan with
Duke.”

iid

of bustling, All our boys de, of
they wouldn't be playing. Wayor
docs n goad fab nt both endo of
abe court, He ean shoot and play
good defense, Ho'll be a bot like
(Dick) Snyder as iar ni that
foes."

A star freshman roundballer,
Huchel snid he docs mot see na
much difference between Itesh-
man and varsity bull aa betw sen
hteah senool and Srechmarta oab-
lege competition. “I guess the

team has ox much potential 24
Davideon teams of the Netscl
era, and miote than Last year's
cheers. “We've done well so far
Chit sar," In said. “The com-
petition hns heen pretty fair, We
boal Wake Forest, wo beat
VPT, whon in turn roa Dulce. Plit
fiisln't ave much, but Furmaty
waa pretty good. Sa we hayert'l
boon playing qwoor cnmypetition.”

Afar Davidaon Hockel plund
60 attend Inw selool, When ashbed

blageat difference between foesh ubout ony plans Lo play for the

fant and varsity i+ that thure NAA, Heckel lagged amd sald

are latter big men om tha var- be mityie try it “Just for fun”

ally. They give me moce treme i he bud the spotrtuntky, bot

Mian the puiacits,"" bo hat an definite plans fac o
Huckel sald he feels this year's pro career,
