PAGE SIX

MARXIAN ECO

AFTER PARTY SCHEDULE

NOMIST | :

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Philosopher McMullan

Pikas. The Sigma Chis bagged
the top position in the Sack
Race while the Phi Delts and

Westfall summarized the week

Dr. James G. Martin toss-
ed his Republican hat into

“I hope I can make some

— _—

a Phi Gams hobbled along be-|the ring for the Board of |
hind. County Commissioners
Oc ia an e Greek Week chairman David| Monday.

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonion Feature Editor
What is needed in this war-

torn world is a thorough social
revolution. What is more, the
people of the world are begin-
ning to realize it.

This is the view of Marxian
economist Paul M. Sweezy.
Speaking in chapel Tuesday,
Sweezy presented a bleak pic-
ture for the ‘‘Future of Capi-

» nations,

| shortage in Gapitalistic India.

ported the equivalent of $25
billion; but her imports exceed-
ed this by 70 per cent.”
Furthermore, the late ad-
vances in health have been ex-
ported to the underdeveloped
countries which before had a
high birth and death rate. The
result has been that the death
rate has dropped considerably,

talism.""

Sweezy’s point revolved around
the fact that ‘‘four centuries
ago, the most powerful nations
in the world conquered it -and
then proceeded to loot it.”

They took out all the gold.
and silver, exploited the na-
tives, and then brought in slaves
from other parts of the world,
ruining those civilizations.

The result has been that there
are a few highly developed coun-
tries and the rest of the world
is underdeveloped. And this is
all the fault of the powerful na-
tions. '

The startling realization is
that such people identify with
the Communistic and socialistic
who sympathize with
their problem. They look to
the rapid economic develop-
ment of Communist China, and
then to the impending food

“They realize the! need to escape
from their capitalistic, imperial-|
tie prison.”

and the birth rate has remained | with it.

unchanged. Thus, overpopulation
has become a problem.

Foreign aid merely maintains
the unpopular, unrepresentative
governments already in power,
which are either incapable of
or disinterested in development.
“The purpose is to keep the
status quo.”

fei ee

ti Wade

Atl

happily. ‘I was pretty satisfied
The weather wasn't
too good, but otherwise things
went pretty well.”

Reflecting earlier IFC pun-
ishment of hazing infractions,
he said, “I don't think there
was too much going on. espe-
cially in the fraternities that
had been warned. The other
houses were pretty careful just

ti

Lementien eve"

7m

{

special contribution in the field
of education. This is a key
subject for the attention of the
commissioners, as witnessed by
the recent news items on the
county school budget.

‘My particular interest is to
support sound proposals for im-
proving the quality and scope
of our county’s schoo) system.

“Other than that I don’t have
a specific platform right now,
and I certainly don't pose as a
crusader, as yet. My main con-
cern is to try to fulfill a per-
sonal responsibility to get into
local government.

“For the present, I intend to
do a lot of listening. This will
mean a lot of work this sum-
mer.”

Since joining the faculty in
1960, Martin has been active
county activities, currently serv-
ing as president of the David-
son Community Council, (an
agency sponosring recreation),
treasurer of the West Davidson
Baseball Club, and he plays the
tuba in the Charlotte Symphony
Orchestra.

4

q

E.. |
en O |

DR. J. G. MARTIN

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1966

It super-

g
' Beta, KA 5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. [KA House The Venturas Open
ATO 12:00-3:60 a.m. The Outrigger Chester Mayfield—The Casuals] Closed |
Beta, KA 11:00. p.m.-3:00 a.m. [| Moose Lodge, Concord The Venturas Open
Kappa Sig, SAE 10:00 p.m.-2:00 a.m. | American Legion Post, Cornelius] The Rogues, The Coasters Closed
Pika 12:00-4:00 p.m. VFW, Mooresville The Cavaliers Open
Pi Kap 11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. [| Lake Lynn Lodge, Concord The Tams, The Impacts Closed
Phi Delt 11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. | Cornelius The In-Men, Ltd. Open By AL VARNER University posed to the stu- ist all rolled into one. and, as he did here at David-
Fiji 12:00-4:00 a.m. Hager’s Fish Camp, L. Norman] The Caravelles Closed Davidsonien Feature Writer dent body yesterday in Educated at Catholic Univer. son, on Teilhard de Chardin, a
Sigma Nu 12:00-4:00 a.m. Charlotte The Originals Open Why have giraffes? chapel. sity in Belgium where he re- French scientist-philosopher who
SPE 11:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m. [Vance Motor Inn, Statesville |The Shantellas Closed For one who thinks about Dr. McMullan, recently elect- ceived his PhD, McMullan has died only a few years ago.
Sigma Chi 11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. | Flounder Inn, Kannapolis The Magnificents Open it, that may be an awfully ed president of the American been a visiting professor at a Dr. McMullan is interested in
Saturday good | question. And its a Catholic Philosophy Association, number ha universities across Chardin‘s evolutionary philoso-
: .m.-6:00 p.m McGuire home, Lake Norman j None Closed question a r. =rnan Powosopher, the country and has spoken on phy which was revealed in Char-
ATO KA 0D . ™ 00 Pama Hy. No. 73, Lake Norman The Venturas Open McMullan of Notre Dame theologian and scientific theor- quantum mechanics, Galileo gin's book Phenomenon of Man.
Kappa Sig C’p Thunderbird, near York, S.C.[ None Closed According to Dr. McMullan, this
Phi Delt 2:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. | Commodore Peninsular Harry Deel and The Galaxies | Closed a book is very hard to understand
SAE 2:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Harris Lake. Concord Rd. The Monzas : Closed ree ee in Ss and perhaps that is why Dr.
Sigma Nu 2:00 p.m. Outrigger Island None Closed McMullan’s talk was so hard to
: SPE 2:00 p.m. Al’s Camping Area. L. Norman] Juke Box Closed understand.
Sigma Chi 2:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. | Derby Day, near Davidson Closed a To McMullan, Chardin’s theory
ATO 11:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m. | American Leg. Post, Cornelius] The Impacts Closed | e e e atta of evolution, which was never
Beta 11:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m. | Boyle’s Cabin, Hy. No. 73 The Rhythmics Open made particularly clear in the
KA 11:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m. |The Barn The Rogues Closed . ; talk is basic to philosophy as
Kappa Sig 9:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. | C'p Thunderbird, near York. $.C.| The Monzas Closed Davidson’s Greek Week| in case.” thought we needed. I thought] well as to science.
Pika 12:00-4:00 a.m. Mecklenburg Hotel, Charlotte |The Monzas Closed sailed into the sunset last] Kappa Sig pledge David Fore it was our place to do it. |cedes the Darwinian and neo-
% Pi Kap 11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. | Outrigger Harbor. Cornelius |The Nomads Closed Friday as the pledge compe-| commented about the week, ‘It Chip Bellamy, sophomore Phi| Darwinian schools and offers a
, Phi Delt 11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. | Airport VFW, Charlotte The Skylarks Open tition ended with the Pledge} wasn't really what I expected. Gam, pointed to improvements| much more unified concept, not
f Fiji 12:00-4:00 a.m. Hager's Fish Camp, L. Norman] The Pagans Closed Regatta. I liked the way they handled in the entire pledge program] only of the past, but also of the
SAE 8:00 p.m.-12:00 p.m. | Harris Lake. Concord Rd. The Rhodes Scholars Open Larry Slade, Richard Bagby. it at the Sig house.” such as cleaning up and paint-| present and future.
7 S:gma Nu -12:00 a.m. | Outrigger Island None Closed and John Frick steered the KA| | Phey didn’t give us too much ing in the fraternity house, re-| In regard to the future, Mc-
* SPE -2:00 a.m. | Al's Camping Area. L. Norman| Juke Box Closed « dreadnought to victory in the head. The stuff we did was quired faculty visitation, and in-| Mullan feels the importance of
y S.gma Chi 11:30 p.m.-3:30 a.m. | Flounder Inn, Kannapolis Dr. Feelgood and The Interns | Closed \_exent held at Lake Norman. | Constructive. We worked a lot creased emphasis upon scholar-| Chardin is that he advocates
; Sunday The Phi Delts and the Pikas|@tound the house which JI ship and school leadership. “looking” and “‘seeing” the gen-
; Beta, KA, Kappa Sig, The Fabul e finished second and third. ee To eral direction of history ‘which
Phi Delt, SAE 2:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. Not Announced e Fabulous Five Open A . ; M e t T k . Pl Ss causing man and society to
4 Pika 2:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Lake Norman None Closed ] the AE's fitted toe nomber ar in a es unge coe progressively more om
. “wows -- yaes one finish in the Bat Race, aan plex. McMullan mentioned Char-
4 followed by the Kapps and the F or County Position din’s concepts of the ‘‘super-

soul’’ and the ‘“‘Omega Point,”
then concluded by mentioning
Chardin’s relevance to theology.

He suggested that in 100
years, the only things that will
temain from the Phenomenon of
Man are its theological impli-
cations.

These pertain to the incarna-
tion of Jesus Christ and his re-
lationship to man and nature.
In essence, McMullan believes
that philosophy, science, evolu-
tion and theology are intrinsical-
ly united and that the nature of
Jesus Christ must be re-exam-
ined in light of the recognition
of this unity.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at

La Roma

Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne —. Parmigiana — Salads
— CHOICE STEAKS — .

La Roma
Ristoranti

; Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

AU

1600 MONTFORD RD.

The grey-haired economist | _—— _—_——— ,
then answered those who defend MOORESVILLE Fri.
capitalism ‘by pointing to the! DAVIDSON Sat.
aggressive foreign aid programs. | Drive In Theatre Sun.

7D in “From 1870 until the outbreak
PAUL M. SWEEZY of World War I. Britain ex- wy COME SPY WITH YOUR
B ee FAVORITE UN.CLE'S_{ycTpq

p>

08 es

py COLOR
ote DHE $
VeITH MY FACE

Charlotte's Finest restaurant, For Superb
Food and beautiful Oriental atmosphere.

.

Draft Board To Outline
Student Draft Status

TEACHERS GRAB SMOKE IN CHAMBERS STORAGE ROOM

ROBERT SENTA DAVID. -
German teachers Hansford Epes (left) and Tom Pinkerton take a break in the new VAUGHN - BERGER - McCALLUM
German seminar room on the third floor of Chambers. The room is used for German | ——' he Maer tit from THE Ty sow ——

Representatives of the .North
Carolina Selective Service Sys-
tem will outline the require-
ments. of colleges in reporting
student grades and class stand-
ings to local draft boards, at a
meeting at N. C. State on April
22.

Registrar F. W. Hengeveld
said that Davidson. had re-
ceived only one official indica-
tion tha: class standings would
be required .by local draft
boards. At tha! time no specific
grades or standing were speci-
fied. He said definite instruc-
tons would be outlined at the
meeting.

When asked if Davidson Col-
lege had made a policy decis-
ion as to whether they would
withhold grades and class stand-
ing if so asked by a student.
Hengeveld said ‘If a student
requests this we shall probably

,
0

For a Soft Drink or o Full

Dinner—The p

come during Frolics
10 Per Cent Discount To D. C. Students

SHONEY’S

Home Of The

62 seminars, book storage, and lounge for German students.
received a quantity of books from the West German government to stock the bar-

ren shelves in this picture.
books wera that such a room as this must be established where the books could be

stored and used outside of the library.

ELK’S RESTAURANT

abide by his wishes.”

In further response to this
question he quoted the follow-
ing paragraph from the Spring
1966 issue of the Newsletter of
the American Association of
Collegiate Registrars and Ad-
misisons Officers: ‘But the Se-
lective Service System must
have information on which to

Dr. E. O. Wruck has

The conditions that had to be met for receiving these

make its judgments, and _ in- .
stiutions which do not make! U.S. 21 By Pass
the effort to furnish the need-' Mooresville

ed information are reminded
that in the absence of institu-|
tional information. Selective
Service boards will have to pro-'
ceed with classification on the
basis of whatever information
they are able to obtain.”

Hengeveld further emphasized
the importance of supplying
grades. and said it was in the:
best. interest of each student to
have such information sent to
his local draft board.

PIZ
BOY

erfect place to

Three Locations

800 E. Morehead

3400

3700 E. Independence Blvd.
To Serve You!

Plaza

Tel. 662-9411
Open Seven Days a Week

TASTEE SUB

Also Complete Line of Short
Orders and Plate Lunches

§mall and large

LAS

50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES,
FLOATS, SODAS

TASTEE

FREEZ

MOORESVILLE

Plus Dave Clark 5...
The Animals
“GET YOURSELF
A COLLEGE GIRL”
Both In Color

Your First

oe eee

foundation for lifetime sec
service.

life insurance policy, however small, can lay the

urity. We specialize in this

For a head start on the right road to Financial

Independence, compare before you buy.

See us—

The NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE

Insurance

“Because there

Sw

e Company

IS a difference!”

R. T. Stone

North Main Street—Davidson

892-1424

For Golf,
or just goofing.

Our 54th Year

Your All-Season Jacket

HOUSE OF FAMOUS BRANDS

John Mack & Son

CALL 523-8075 FOR RESERVATIONS

a ®
LONDON Foc

Mooresville, N. C.

