Che Bavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp
Editor-in-Chief

PPAGE TWO

IRVINE WELLING
Business Manager

FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 25. 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarify reflect the views of the editor.)

No Magical Powers

We heartily concur in the faculty's
approval of the recommendations of
the Social Life Evaluation Commit-
tee. this week as a significant step in
the college's concern for the well be-
ing of everv student.

- There are certainly no magical pow-
ers in any set of proposals, including
those that concern the social life of
the Davidson student body.

By the same token, the seven rec-
ommendations of the Workman com-
mittee may not hold the panacea for
every shortcoming in this area.

They do represent the willingness
on the part of forward-looking stu-
dents and facultv members to alleviate
a problem that has been conveniently
overlooked for so long that no totally
amicable solution is to be seen. |

The peculiar nature of fraternities
throughout the country makes even
the slightest adjustment seem totally
unbearable for their members.

It is unfortunate. then. that a sys-
tem that has served fhe needs of a
majority of Davidson students so well
through the years must be forced to
aecept changes of which it does not
wholly approve.

It is even more regrettable, how-
ever, and a poor reflection on the ma-

jority of students who enjoy such ad-
vantages that no attempt has been
made heretofore to provide such op-
portunities for the remainder of the
student body,

Therein lies the cause for the dis-
taste for such belated adjustments and
for the fraternity man’s sudden
clamor.

Also. it is reason enough for a slow
and temperant approach to the prob-
lem. a solution for which cannot be
found overnight, as we have pointed
out before.

The alterations which were made
this vear in the social life have proved
themselves in the better adjustment
that freshmen could make to campus
life ‘as a whole.

, We do not foresee the achievement
of a perfect situation next year or the
year after that.

But. if the positive effects of stich
adjustments as were made for this
year can be felt in the immediate
vears ahead. the continued and de-
termined effort: that .has character-
jzed. the current studv of this campus
blight can erase the unglorified ignor-
ance that has endured for so Jong in
this area.

Kennedy Puts His Foot In

Senator Robert Kennedy is in a re-
markably poor position to charge, as
he did Tuesday, that there is “confu-
sion” in the Administration over war
aims in Viet Nam.

Senator Kennedy’s own peace pre-
scription is hardly a model of clarity.
Does he, for example, advocate nego-
tiating formation of an interim coali-
tion government with the Commu-
nists. in advance of any elections?

His Saturday statement indicated
that he did (giving the Communists
“a share of power and responsibility,”
he said then. “may come about
through a single conference or many
meetings. or by a slow undramatic
process of gradual accommodation”).

Or does he, as he seemingly. tried
to suggest Tuesday. only advocate ac-
cepting this if it comes about as the
result of free elections?” The differ-
ence is crucial. ;

Mr. Kennedy’s original basic argu-
ment was that offering ‘unconditional
discussions” is not sufficient: that we
have to offer enough in advance of a
conference to tempt the Communists
to attend. with the implied promise of
more once the negotiations begin. And
yet it ‘is difficult to conceive what
more we could offer, beyond the share
in a South Vietnamese government
that he held out.

He referred Tuesday to the Laotian
experience as an example of a coali-
tion that. worked. True, Laos has not
been completely swallowed up, and
its Premier. Souvanna Phouma (origi-
nally a Soviet nominee). has learned
enough from his experience to have
become anti-Communist. But what the
Communist Pathet Lao did. once they
had their agreement, was to keep the
territory they held. refusing govern-
ment forces entry, to accept a share in
the national government and to con-
tinue fighting to take over the rest of
the country.

The fighting, as a matter of fact,
is still going on, aided by North Viet-
namese troops. It hardly provides an
auspicious model.

The original Kennedy statement
was a remarkable document, balanc-
ing proposals that would appeal to the
Left with muted warnings against the
pitfalls in those proposals—but giv-
ing no indication of how the pitfalls
could be avoided. °

There must. for example, be protec-
tion against “sudden and violent up-
heaval.” it will require “enormous
skill and political wisdom to find the
point at which participation (by the

Communists) does not bring domina-.

tion or internal conquest.” These are
among the things the war is about.
Basically, the U. S. war aims are
perfectly plain and have been often
Stated: to thwart North Viet Nam’s

effort to take over the South by force.

.Such critics as Senator Fulbright
and Walter Lippmann refer to this as
a demand for “unconditional surren-
der,”’ which is a remarkably loose use
of a phrase which has acquired a pre-
cise meaning. There has never been
anv suggestion that North Viet Nam
submit to occupation; implicit in all
the United States has said is that the
future status of the indigenous South
Vietnamese Communist forces would
be negotiable.

Senator Kennedy now solemnly
warns that Hanoi could not accept ‘‘a
settlement which leaves in the South
a hostile government. dedicatéd to the
final physical destruction of all Com.
munist elements.” No one suggests an.
nihilation of the Viet Cong as part of
a peace settlement.

What is necessary, if an honorable
settlement js to be achieved. is one
which guarantees independence self
determination and—not Jeast—secur-
itv for South Viet Nam.

' The trouble. unfortunately. is that
these are preciselv. what Hanoi intends
to deny the South, and the more en-
couragement the “peace bloc” gets
from Americans of Mr. Kennedy’s
Standing. the more Hanoi is. encour
aged to hold out for total victory.

—New York Herald Tribune

Wasted Effort

The delivery this week of the long
overdue Alpha Phi Omega Directory
prompts us to renew a plea we have
made earlier: The APO should make
arrangements so that the directory can
be delivered within the first week of
the first semester.

There is no reason why the informa-
tion necessary for the book cannot be
compiled over the summer as well as
it can during the first semester. Even
when delivered at its earliest sched-
uled time, in the past, the date was
always well into the first semester,
when much of the usefulness of the
book has been wasted.

With rush postponed until second
semester, there will be no need to wait
until the start of school to obtain such
information as pledges of fraternities.

Should the APO distribute its direc-
tory promptly at the beginning of
school. there would be no need for
THE DAVIDSONIAN’S campus direc-
tory, a makeshift device which makes
no claim to replace the utility of the
APO's booklet.

The best thing that can be said
about the newspaper's directory is
that it is printed at the first of school,
and with the APO’s cooperation even
this advantage can be transferred so
there will be no useless duplication
of time and effort.

RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS
LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION

Associate Editors _

Assistant Editors

Managing Editors

Assistant Managing Editor TOM COOK
News Editor SAM BOYTE
Feature Editor HEYWARD CARTER
Copv Editor . CHRIS HAWK

Sports Editor BILL BRIGGS

BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER
Assistant Sports Editor ARCH McCALLUM

Assistant Copy Editors

Photography Editor TOM THEL
Photographers BILL OLSON
CHIP PURVIS

Cartoonists . _ LOU HILL
BOB HOLLADAY

JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON
BILL WATSON
JOHN VISER

Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Contributors this week: Bob Reid. Yates Faison, K. D. Weeks, Bill Richmond, David
King, CHff Duke. Don Sewell, John Williams, Ron Snow, Cameron Ferguson, Robbie
Hooker, Billy Farr. Bill Graham, Joe Beard, Price Cameron. Grey Pash, Mason Stephen-
son, Bill Seigler, Al Varner, Lindsay Davis, Mike May, Toby Watt.

THE DAVIDSONIAN Is published by the
students of Davidson College weekly during
the school year except examination periods
and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per
year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE
DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C.
28036. Entered as second class matter af

Davidson, N. C.

‘A PATCH OF BLUE’

Critic Applauds Acting

Of Negro And Blind Girl

By WILLIAM TROTTER
A Review

When 1 was invited to attend
a screening of A PATCH OF
BLUE. I went with mixed. feel-
ings. Reviews of the film had
left me with the impression tbat
it was one of those ‘good idea“
pictures which start well and
hold. a lot of premise. but soon
degenerate into soap apera.

The story of. thé love ‘between
a blind. tormented young white
girl. and a compassionate N2-
gro i: pla'niv a ‘message’ -fitm:
When a director is trying to con-
vey a message of this nature, he
may easily fall into the'trap a:
seniimentali:y whicn ha: rain-
ed. a hos: of films.

_I expected fo be mildly enter
tafhed by tne fihm. H not ‘frank-
ly: bored bv ~ IT came away
deeply moved

To. be sure. tnere are mo
menis (ane can alm = sce a
superimposed <ign: “Author's
Message flashing on and off in
a corner of ihe screen), when
the d.alogue becomés heavy and
borders on the mawkish.

But, for this reviewer. these
moments are not important be
side ‘the tremendous emotional

impact of the movie, the obvious
love and sincerity shown "by d)-
rector, actors and cameramen
alike.

The story is simple. A young
blind gir! who lives in a squalid
‘and violent tenement apartment
with her vicious mother (por-
trayed with a vengeance by Shel-
le: Winters) and cher besotted
grandfayher, is befriended bv a
young Negro. plajed by S dney
Poitier.

He alone, o! all-the people she
-has -known. believes in her. is
tender 1o her, and. finally. loves
‘er. The ret of the plot is
predictable enough, but.I can-

not label ft cliche because of the

rare sensitivity of jis treatmeni:
Tre film sparkies with splen-

did acting. At jast. S.dney Poi-

ver is freed from plaving the
Uncle- Tom meets Sammy-Davis.
type roles he ha: been given for
so many. films: vhe plays his
difficult part with restraint,. tre-
mendous professional skili an@
complete insight. |

The discovery of- the picture

Mis- Elizabeth ‘Hartman who
portrays.the. Blind girl.. This is
ner firs: film. and she has al-
reddy been nominated ‘for an

Problems Of Growing Up

1936

Ancient Letter Echoes

Academy Award on the strength
of this single -role.

The only thing similar which
.comes to mind is Patty Duke's
performance of the young Helen
Keller in THE MIRACLE
WORKER (before Patty Duke
sold out her fine talents to
become another. bad teenage
singer).

Mss Hartman ts a radiant.
slender. altogether fresh and
wonderful actress. She plavs
an enormously difficult.part with
flawlee< style and complete iden-
tification. (To beuer master the
role, she wore Special lenses
during the filming which actu
ally made it impossible for her
ta. see.) Sne is magnificen:: by
far the freshest and mos: ex-
‘citing star to appear in Ameri.
can cinema in a long: long
time,

A PATCH OF BLUE succeeds
in telling a beautiful story well.
It.is not pretentiows. it is not at
all profound — God save the
mark. It is. perhaps. not art.
Buy-I have the deepes: of s¥m-
pathies for anyone who cannot
find ‘something in a beautiful
story. well arid sénsitively told.
See it.

by Hill

{Library Facility Needs

(Editor’s Note: The following, from the records of the Library Committee of
thirty years ago, shows the timeless need for improvement of library facilities).

Davidson College
Department of English

TO THE PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE:

The members of the Library

perhaps the

rary Committee feel that we are charged with
reatest responsibility carried by any committee, in connection

with the intellectual and development of the students of Davidson College.
On every college campus, the library is expected to be the center for read-
ing, for study, for investigation where the student may readily find the ma-
terial he seeks, a comfortable place in which to work and a stimulus to
greater intellectual endeavor.

The committee is gratified that provision is being made for additional
well-trained assistance for the coming year, that will add in making the con-
tents of the library more readily available for student and professor. How-
ever, no matter how much the personnel of the library staff may be in-
creased, the contents of the library can never be made available to a satis-
factory degree, until far more working space and equipment is provided.
The shelves of the library aer now crowded though occupying most of the
floor space of the building. The question constantly arises, “Where can we
find room for more books?” But a library is primarily a workshop for large
numbers of students, not just a place to house books. We of the Library
Committee recognize every day that we are in serious need of half a dozen
times as much work-space and equipment as we now have. Until more fa-
cilities are provided, we feel seriously handicapped in making the library the
center of the intellectual activities it is expected to be.

The library committee is therefore appealing to the President and to

the Trustees to let no other line of material develo
precedence over a new and a far larger library bu

pment at the college take
ilding. We can think of

nothing else by way of celebrating the 100th anniversary of the founding of

the col

ege that would so encourage students and faculty in their mutual en-

deavors in things intellectual, as a Library building adapted to the needs of
our enlarged student body.

roi ~

For the Library Committee.
Henry T. Lilley,
Thos. W. Lingle.

"SO Er <I meme

[oe CatO'

7 'Nine Tails:

a |
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

THE CONTINUING SQUABBLE over whether
students must pay extra to see their own team play is
an aspect of a continuing problem: the role of big-
time athletics in the educational process.

The overemphasis on strong football and basket-
ball teams at many colleges has led to a disease called
“athleticitis.” Its chief characteristic is the main-
tenance of an intercollegiate athletic program princi-
pally for the enjoyment of the alumni and their
friends, rather than for that of the student body in-
volved.

Davidson today is showing signs of developing
athleticitis. Having spent three years as head man-
ager of Wildcat football teams (with a partial athletic
scholarship). I have been disturbed by certain trends
now accelerated.

THE FIRST SYMPTOM OF ATHLETICITIS is
an undue proportion of student time required by
coaches. Any sport (particularly football and basket-
ball) requiring from three-to-six hours-per-day (six
days. per-week) participation is taking entirely too
much time from the student's intellectual develop-
ment,

The reason coaches require so much time on
football and basketball (and other sports) is laudable
enough in itself: a desire to excel. Yet to whose pri-
mary benefit is this time required? The intellectual
development of the player or the prestige of the in-
stitution?

When a coach requires players to practice on
Sunday as happened in football here this fall, the
whole business has gone entirely too far.

_ One highly-regarded athlete who quit one of the
major athletic teams reportedly made this comment:
“I don’t mind working long hours for the team. But
that coach wanted me to sacrifice my whole college
career to his team.”

A man holding an athletic scholarship leads a
double life, that of student and that of college em-
ployee. And subtly the emphasis is placed on his
role as a college employee, paid to play and paid to
play well. Money is being invested in him, not on his
intellectual potential, but on his ability to play foot-
ball or basketball.

Then it is little wonder that he honors his ath-
letic commitnsent before his scholastic goals. The
blame for this situation should be placed not on the
player, but on the individuals who force him into this
position.

THE SECOND SYMPTOM OF ATHLETICITIS is
the contro! of athletic policy, wholly or in part. by
sources and individuals outside the immediate col-
lege community.

There is a rumor that says the football and bas-
ketball coaches receive one salary from the school
and another from members of the Wildcat Club. Re-
cruiting funds are likewise reported to be guaranteed
by these individuals.

Divided salaries produce divided loyalties. If this
rumor is true. then certain of our athletic coaches
are subject in part to the wishes of men outside the
college administration.

Theoretically the Athletic Committee of the Fac-
ulty 1s “authorized” to determine all policies regard-
ing intercollegiate sports and scheduling. In reality
this committee has little authority, as evidenced by
Dr. Scott's bland comments in last week’s THE DA-
VIDSONIAN. °

_ Who does control Davidson College’s athletic
policies? Maybe Dr. Martin, apparently certain trus-
tees and their friends, certainly not the faculty, the
one group closest to the students. This is another sign
of oncoming athleticitis.

s a e
A THIRD SYMPTOM OF ATHLETICITIS is an
undue portion of the yearly budget going to intercol-
legiate athletics, to the detriment of other college
eeds,

___Davidson’s Living Endowment, supposedly coor-
dinating fund raising for all college activities, origin-
ally stipulated that 34 per cent of this fund would go
toward athletic scholarships. But that agreement was
worded so that a certain number of athletic scholar-
ships are guaranteed, with the regular college budget .
absorbing the-tuition increases. Now an amount equal
to 50 plus per cent of the Living Endowment goes
for athletic scholarships. Each increase in college

fees will mean more jolts for t
budget. J or the regular college

__.The administration seems Strangely reluctant to
disclose just how much big-time athletics do cost the
school. Public budgets (such as the one in the Self-
Study Report) include place salaries, traveling ex-
penses, stadium maintenance and some equipment
expenditures under any category except that of ath-

I suspect that an amount equal to one-third of
Davidson's entire annual budget may be going ex-
clusively for big-time football and basketball teams.
I wonder how many alumni would contribute as en-
thusiastically to the Living Endowment. if they real-
shins most of it goes only for athletic scholar-

At a time when a new librar , improved dorms
for the frosh and more money for new educational
equipment are vitally needed, so much money just
for nationally ranked athletic teams seems a little
inconsistent with Davidson’s educational aims.

*

THE EXTENT OF OUR COMMITMENT to inter-
collegiate athletics is one that should be discussed
mn has brought
entire story, ght out only a small part of the
_1 favor restoring to the faculty the authority to
decide athletic policy—such is the situation in “the
Big Ten Conference. Our faculty, being the closest
group to phe stadents, should have at least an equal
outsiders i ini i

polices, S$ in determining our athletic
And let the college administration explain to the
Ford Foundation and alumni why it is necessary to
divert so many of their contributions to big-time ath-

letics at the expense of
tional needs. P many more urgent educa
