Che Dauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

IRVINE WELLING
Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1966

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Chance To Grow Up

We are somewhat disappointed
over the faculty's failure to arrive at
a decision in Tuesdav’s meeting on the
recommendations of the Social Life
Evaluation Committee.

But we are not disheartened. to say
the least; for we see in the tabling of
the matter a sign that the faculty is
determined to bring about the best
possible cure to the social blight on
campus.

The most encouraging factor in the
whole approach to the problem this
vear has been the time and detail that

nas gone into the formulation of the -

seven proposals of the special faculty
committee.

The study group. chaired by Dr.
W. G. Workman, has met regularly
and often more than one time per
week since the first week in October.
The members of the committee, in-
cluding four students. four faculty
members and the college chaplain,
could not have been more thorough in
their handling of the situation.

The committee solicited statements’

and opinions from nearly every group
and individual directly concerned with
social life on campus—the Freshman
Council, the Interfraternity Council,
the new Social Council, freshmen. fra-
ternitv men and Independents alike.

What cannot be overlooked. then,
is the intensive effort that has char-
acterized this most recent study. We
believe, too. that the proposals point
up the moderate tone of the group.

What. after all. is so objectionable
to the seven recommendations!

Davidson’s fraternities have enjoy-
ed what has become known as a “mod-
el. system.” The unique housing and
boarding arrangement is a tribute to
both the fraternity members and the
college.

As we stated.in our platform be-
fore the campus elections last spring.
there is a “definite value in the small.
group friendship and social life that
fraternities on campus provide for.
their members.”

This is all good. but unfortunately
it does not tell the entire story. Woven
into the system.are grievous maladies.
certain wrongs that have been tolerat-
ed and basically ignored so long by the
fraternities, that they squeal at the
slightest hint of change from their so-
phisticated pathways.

The foremost recommendation of
the Workman committee is item five.
Around this proposal has most natur-
ally revolved the most discussion since
the committee's report was issued last
week.

This has also been the focal point
of criticism against fraternities on a
national scale. It is the often dolorous
practice of discrimination.

Well blessed within the confines of
Southern standards and 100-year old
traditions. both the fraternities and
the college have been content to con-
done an exclusive svstem which is di-
rectly opposed to the basic principles
of this institution.

Such standards are disappearing

with even broader social changes, and
certain traditions cannot long stand
alongside the college's aspirations to
become a nationally known center of
learning.

It is unfortunate that the fraterni-
ties themselves did not take the initia-
tive in these inevitable adjustments.
but rather chose to assume a role of
stagnated indifference.

The opportunity for every freshman
to associate himself with a fraternity.
if he wishes to.do so, should be made
available as soon as a plan desirable
to both the fraternities and the college
can be effected.

By failing to recognize the feasi-
bility and present need for such a sys-
tem. certain blind reactionaries are
merely expediting the death warrant
of fraternities as they now exist on
the Davidson campus.

Equally controversial is the pro-
posal to allow the freshman class to
eat in the College Union for both se-
mesters. Among other advantages. this
would contribute to the abstract ele-
ment of class unity. Even more. it.
would stabilize the operation of the
Union cafeteria and greatly assure the
continuation of the current level of
superior service. \

Financial problems of the frater-
nities can be solved by the coopera-
tion of the 12 groups together. Cries
of “wolf” in this area are often pain-
ful and loud, but they hold no prece-
dence over the best interests of the
college as a whole.

The positive advantages to a sys-
tem of delaved rush are evident in
this year’s freshman class. To allow
the incoming freshman to adjust free-
ly, without the sudden. inhibitive
pressures of fraternity life. is the most
favorable adjustment which was made
for this year’s freshmen.

On the other hand. the compromise
system of rush which lasted through
two months of the first semester
should not be tolerated again. Instead.
the idea of a brief period of formal
rush after the end of the first semes-
ter would make the pseudo-friendship
more bearable for the rusher and
rushee alike.

Unrestricted contact between fresh-
men and upperclassmen should have
been effected this vear. But once
again it seems that fraternities have
failed to adapt to a changing environ-.
ment.

We have said before. and we re-
peat. that the campus needs the bene-
fits of small-group socia) life. The fra
ternities have long provided this for
their members.

But ‘times change. and fraternities
must change as well. If they cannot

. well, there are other means. of
organization.

The Social Life Evaluation Com
mittee has not attacked the fraterni
ties: rather, it has given them an op
portunitv. They now plainlv have the
chance to grow up—or to fold up.

In Dollars And Cents

Dr. Paul Marrotte, chairman of
the faculty athletic committee. in a
letter on this page has certainly re-
emphasized a situation that we. point-
ed out last week. Davidson students
are having to pay for fickets to see
their own basketball team play its last
two home games this season.

The concern of the athletic depart-
ment obviously lies with fattening its
pocketbook rather than with the inter-
ests of the students whom it suppos-
edly serves.

~ The purpose of playing in the Coli-
seum must be to make more money
from the general public—not from the
students —in order to increase the
amount of funds the athletic depart-
ment has at its disposal. If the profits
to be made at the Coliseum are not re-

alized. there is no excuse for playing
there.

The inconvenience of traveling 20
miles to see our home games is hardly
preat. But the idea that students must
dig into their pockets and pay an ex-
tra sum—in addition to the annual ac-
tivities fee—to finance this inconven-
jence and then view the games from
some of the worst seats in the Coli-
seum is really ridiculous.

We do apologize for being under
the illusion that the Wildcats are the
students’ team.

We suggest, rather. that for the
purpose of consistency with the poli-
cies of the athletic department. statis-
ties on this year’s basketball team
measure the team’s success in dollars
and cents instead of in games won and

ost!

Associate Editors .. RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK

TOM CRAIG

MICHAEL HARRINGTON

Assistant Editors BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS

Managing Editors —.. LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION

Assistant Managing Editor .TOM COOK
‘News Editor ... SAM BOYTE
Feature Editor HEYWARD CARTER
Copy Editor CHRIS HAWK

Sports Editor BILL BRIGGS

BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER
Assistant Sports Editor ARCH McCALLUM
Photography Editor TOM THEL

Assistant Copy Editors

Photographers BILL OLSON
CHIP PURVIS

Cartoonists . LOU HILL
BOB HOLLADAY

JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON
BILL WATSON
JOHN VISER

Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Marrotte Discloses Error
In Charging For Tickets

(Editor's Note: The follow-
ing letter from Dr. Marrotte
to Dr. Scott was received for
publication by THE DAVIDS-
SONIAN.)

Dr. Tom Scott, Director
Department of Athletics
Davidson College
Dear Dr. Scott:

During the past week it has
been announced’ by the Depart-
ment of Athletics that the. stu-
dent tickets to the two basketball
games in the Coliseum on Feb.
12 against New York University
and on Feb. 15 against St.
Joseph's will cost the studenis
one haif the admission price.

‘As chairman of the Faculty
Athletic Committee. 1 wish to
protest. this policy of charging
the students any admission to
these two games.

On Feb. 4. 1965. you were pre-
sent at the Faculty Athletic
Committee meeting at which
time it was agreed that ‘‘stu-
dent tickeis to Coliseum basket-
ball games. will be FREE when
school fs in session, but are half-

Illusory Spirits

price during recess."' (See min-
utes of that meeting).

1 certainly think that the stu-
dents and the Faculty Athletic
Committee have a right to know
why the policy was changed
from that adopted one year ago.
I wish to make it clear that. the
change in policy was not pre-
sented to the Committee.

Paul A. Marrotte, Chairman
Faculty Athletic Committee

Edwards

Dear Editor:

The Registrar's office has out-
done itself ‘with the posting of
the latest examination schedule.
Although such arbitrary sched-
ules are never satisfactory ‘to
all concerned, this one should
set some sort of a record for
total inequity.

The primary Yaults lie in plac-
ing two periods in which a.ma
jority of the student body has
classes. the secorid and third pe-
riod Monday classes. on the

same day of the schedule, com-

pounded by the fact that this is

to be the last day of exams: -

scheduling the arduous and
time-consuming ROTC exams
for a day to themselves: and
reserving another whole day for
the relatively small fourth pe-
riod Tuesday classes.

Add to this the fact. that the
second half of the schedule is
loaded with the Jargest classes,
making it relatively certain that
‘most students will have all of
their exams in one short time,
and you have the prescription
for a real mess.

Tied hands or not, it seems
that something constructive
could be done, even to the potnt
of having only one exam a day.
This would require only three
more days. and would ease the
load to some extent. But even
ff this proposal proves .imprac-

‘tical, something should be done

before it Js too Jate for another
semester.

Charles Edwards
Davidson College

by Holladay

BASKETBALL CONDUCT

Council Chides Students

For Poor Sportsmanship

Dear Editor:

Tuésday night at the Fresh
man basketball game with Caro-
lina, the sportsmanship of stir
dents in the stands reached one
of the low points of the last
few years. The fine game play-
ed by the Freshman team seem-
ed insufficient to express the
keen desire for competition that
rested within the hearts of some
of the students, so this competi-
tiveness was forced to find other
outlets.

B.C.
A HURRICANE IS THEY RAVAGE, THEY
A VICIOUS, DREADFUL, | RAZE, THEY HOWL
DEVASTATING STORM.:+ | ANDRANT AND
CBLITERATE! ...

The high point of the evening
occurred when two Davidson
huskies, in a rare display of
courage and heroism, managed,
after a prolonged struggle, to
wrestle a ninety-eight pound
Carolina student to the floor and
remove his hat.

But most conspicuous was the
failure on the part of the stu-
dents to observe the dictates of
common courtesy in their behav-
jour toward the visiting team.
The opposing team's bench is

becoming such an object of at-
tention that the action on the
court is almost of secondary im-
portance.

’ Davidson is eager for national

recognition on the basketball

court. To achieve this, David-
son must play nationally recog-
nized teams. These teams aren't
going to play Davidson if stu-
dents continue to exercise such
poor taste in finding outlets for
their feelings of rivalry with
other schools.

This is a practical reason for
good sportsmanship, aside-from
the simple necessity for stu-
dents to conduct themselves in
a manner that will reflect credit
on Davidson College and them-
selves. Davidson can't be “‘big’’
in anything if students continue
acting in such trivial ways.

Bill Council
Davidson College

FF +O ee,

» LETTERS
TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN wel-
comes letters from any read-
er, either in support of or

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

The move “to bring Davidson into the mid-20th
century” entered a new phase this past week. On
one side the faculty and administration revamped the
curriculum. For the other side, seeking further so- —
cial integration of the campus, a faculty committee
recommended a 100% bidding set-up for the Greek
system.

Then faculty members promised themselves to
demonstrate their courage and independence next
week, show the students who’s running things by
voting in new restrictions on student social life (to
save their voting privileges from the ‘terrible-tem-
pered trustees’).

WORDS OF THE CHAMBERMAIDS:

“Rejection is bad. That’s why we're going to
have a 100% bidding system in student social life.
Why don’t we have a 100% bidding system in the
admissions office? This is totally irrelevant — we
don’t reject. we se-lect.

“Rejection from a fraternity may ruin a stu-
dent's entire academic life. Let’s do away with re-
jection and fraternities. Let’s make eating clubs that
everyone will join.

_ “Someone'not want to join a club? Ridiculous.
Evervbody wants to join—why are they at Davidson
if they don’t? They knew what it was like before
they came here. ,

“Alcohol and pre-marital sex are bad. If every
student is a student at Davidson College, then every
student should participate together socially—in a
non-alcoholic, non-sexual, concerned manner. This
is good. We want ‘concerned’ students, ‘opposed in
principle to the use of alcoholic beverages.’

“But beware of this argument: If all who work
at Davidson College are college personnel, then all
college personnel should participate together social-
jly—in a non-alcoholic, non-sexual, concerned man-
ner. This is good. We want ‘concerned’ students ‘op-
posed in principle to the use of alcoholic beverages.’

“But beware. of this argument: If all who work at
Davidson College are college personnel, then all col-
lege personnel should participate together socially—
in a non-alcoholic, non-sexual, ‘concerned manner.
This is irrelevanht—we’re not ‘opposed in principle’
that much.

“Once we do away with fraternities, once we
keep students from drinking on campus, once we
control the hours student dates keep on dance week-
ends—then we will have nice students, well-manner-
ed and Christian (who will not. try to upset tradition
by asking for drinking permission, parietal hours
and voluntary vespers).

(‘And to make sure we get that kind of student.
from now on—in the immortal words of one mem-
ber of the admissions committee—‘Never again will]
vote to admit anyone who is not-a church member"’)

“We're in favor of new ideas, but make certain
they’re taught by some senior member of the faculty,
permitted by the administration and approved by. the
Bible Department. Otherwise we don’t want them
at Davidson College. (For this approval. get a slip
signed in triplicate by all the appropriate people—if.
you can ever find them.

‘‘And each year we'll get a better freshman class
—their college board scores will be terrific. They
will be “concerned” students, the kind of well-man-
nered Christians we need.

“Then we will keep Davidson a small. liberal arts
college, second to none (shoulder to shoulder with
Bob Jones U.”

WORDS FROM THE CHAMBERMEN:

“What does that @c!'tb faculty think it’s doing, |
messing with our fraternities? A man’s social life is
his own business. If we want to discriminate, we'll
discriminate! You've got rejection out in life, why
shouldn't we be allowed to discriminate here?

“T’'ll tell it to you straight. If a guy doesn't get a
bid from at least one fraternity (and there are some
fraternities that. will bid anybody), then there must
be something really wrong with him. And we don’t
want him. Let him flit around with his personality
problem somewhere else. We don’t want any flits
here—it’s the fault of the admissions committee,
they’re letting in too many flits.

“We aren’t going to bid those flits—they’re too
(what's the word) ‘controversial’. Why that kind of
person would stir up a fraternity and wreck it with
his liberal ideas. .

“Let those GDI’s mind their own business and
stop trying to change us. The admissions committee
is letting in too many weirdos—not enough good

s.

“This administration doesn’t care about aca-
demic freedom. If the faculty had any guts at all
they’d demand the hiring of some non-Christian pro-
fessors. How can we be really intellectually free until
we hear other points of view?

“And another thing. Everybody in this student
body is too much alike—same background, same
ideas, same neighbodhood. We need guys from dif-
ferent sections with different ideas, who'll really
keep this place from getting too hypocritical. You
know, real ly shake them up on vespers and the drink-
ing rule.

___ “When it comes to social life, this administration
is really blind. Everybody drinks, it’s part of the
American way of life. And all the Northern schools
have parietal hours. Everybody in the state knows ©
that DC men have the best dance weekends—now if
we can just get girls in the rooms.

“If the administration would wise up, put &
tavern on Main Street, they could almost pay for the
school off those beer profits. Who besides a bunch
of old women thinks that drinking is immoral? Half
the faculty stays stoned in their homes anyway—if
they can drink, why can’t we?

“Once we get some more good guys in here,

WHY Do You PERSisT:
IN NAMING THEM
AFTER. WOMEN fF

differing from Its policies.
Leffers should be typewrit-
ten, double-spaced, and
should not exceed 250 words.

Contributors this week: Bruce Weihe, Grey Pash, Robbie Hooker, Toby Watt.
Mike Powell, Bill Graham, Carter Fussell, Billy Farr, Bill Seigler Kent Glad-
Stone. Mike Bates, Ron Snow, Bob Travers, Price Cameron, John Williams,
Mike May. Al Varner, Joe Saunders, Bob Schofield, Dick Richards, Johnny
Wessell. Don Sewell, Yates Faison, K. D. Weeks, Bob Reid. Bill Richmond,
Cliff Duke.

change the faculty a little, put in campus drinking
and put out vespers, this will be the best college in
the South (a four year party school)!”

s 6¢

TRULY THIS IS THE YEAR of the Ruptured
Duck. On one wing Davidson soars to new heights of
egalitarianism and with the other wing she flops
around burdened by antiquated traditions (adminis-
tration and student). One can hear the results on
cee today: one big, squawking, quacking herd of

eese.

Here is a plea for consistent reforms. Change
in one area of campus life requires other changes.
May we have the courage to change, despite our prej-
udices.

We also will receive longer
‘articles, but must request
that they be cleared with the

_ editor.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the
students of Davidson College weekly during
the school year except examination periods
and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per
year (If billed, $4.50). Payable to THE
DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C.
28036. Entered as second class matter at
Davidson, N. C.

tn order to be printed in
the following issuo, ,ictters
should be received not later
than 4 p.m. Tuesday. All
j tetters mus? be signed.

