i
‘

_ "— _|Second-Half Wave |

After Swamps

The Point

WHEN YOU'RE SECOND, YOU TRY HARDER | ing

Now that Sports Ilustrated has appeared in this ham-

By CLIFF DUKE
Sports Welter

Forest, 76-63, ab the Charlotte Coliseum last night.
This edition of the Wildcats, without a senior on the roster and with three
lineup, was labeled an unknown quantity prior to the

let, basketball season has officially begun. It’s really too] Sophomores in the startin
bad that $! didn’t wait to see last night’s game before| Opening tip-off. But the t
picking West Virginia to win the Southern Conference. |‘urned in yeoman performances
We only had one starter to have a bad night, but West|in leading the waning surge in
Virginia had Ron Williams and Bob Benfield, whose| the final stanza.

knee is the most famous joint in the conference, as the
barely beat East Carolina.

y The Demon Deacons dictated

the wild nature of the contest

The current reasoning so far has been that Williams|by opening with a half-court
wouldn’t miss a shot this year because he got contact| press. The first half pitted Huck-

lenses. Well, that isn’t the way it is. Could it be thatjel’s aggressive driving,

Williams can’t shoot when he can see the goal? He did
pretty good last year with teammates reading the score-
board to him?

Davidson doesn’t have that problem. Lefty’s boys
have to have perfect eyesight so they can see the tele-
vision set during games. If you can’t see yourself on
Lefty's network, what’s the use of playing?

Also on the basketball scene is the problem of over-
used adjectives. The word “improved”, has been used so
much with Tom Yopngdale’s name that it sounds like his
first name. Better it be said that he is finally reaching
his potential. Youngdale carried the team last night dur-
ing the first half on the boards and on the scoreboard.
When he and Rod Knowles both have a good night, watch
out!

On paper it would appear logical that West Virginia
ought to be the team to beat this year in the Southern
because of the return of Williams, Benfield and Carl
Head. Unless your center is over seven feet tall and goes
to UCLA, your chances of getting picked to win any-
thing with sophomores in numbers over one is slim. So
be happy.

Does anyone outside the gym really expect us to be
a great team this year? Lefty once told me that the Het-
zel-Snyder-Davidson-Teague-Marcon team might lose 15
games their last season and I didn't believe him. But if
he says the same thing now, I might. This year’s team
will not coast through the season just to lose in the finals
of the Southern Conference Tournament. If you like to
win so bad that the reserves play more than the starters
and Tom Peddicord will pull a Jim Hyder, forget it.

For the first time since most of us have been here,
most of our games will be close and not settled until
someone blitzes the enemy into submission as before,
only later. When you don’t have a superstar, you have to
scratch harder for enough points to keep that streak go-
ing. We don’t have many guys who can kill with their
consistent gunning. This year will find a different player
getting the points we need to win.

There will be games Davidson will lose because our
opponents will find the magic key to bottle up all the
guns, but they will not come often. When you have better
balance, you have a better chance to find the weak spot
in the defense you face and beat it.

Despite the grumblings that this could be a bad year
I can see only clear sailing for the ‘Cats through this
month. That means 10-0 and a Charlotte tournament win.
Ask me about January after the Richmond game.

ww a

OLD HABITS

A disturbing factor of the announcement of the All-
Southern Conference football team was the conspicuous
absence of Renn Gruber from the 44-man squad. When
members of teams like Wittenberg say that Gruber is
the best safety they have ever seen, how do you keep
him off even the second team of the conference team?

Coach Homer Smith sadly noted, “I was extremely
disappointed and I just can not see how they overlooked
a piayer like Renn Gruber. People are just not in the
habit of voting for Davidson players for all-conference.
We will just have to try harder.”

If you think some professors are bad type-graders,
you ought to look at the results of this year's poll of
Southern Conference Sports Writers Association mem-
bers. These are the guys who ought to know but evi-
dently they have judged Davidson football on the same
level of The Citadel, Furman and VMI as far as good
players are concerned. To further make my point, some
of the writers did not even put Poole on their ballots
because Garrett Ford, the halfback from West Virginia
and Chuck Albertson of William and Mary led the voting.

Homer has said that there ought to be an investiga-
tion of the vote, if Jimmy Poole is not Player-of-the-Year.
The northern half of this league is stronger than the
southern, but they don’t have the corner on all the good
football players in the conference As far as those of us
that did vote for Gruber, Poole, and the others for the
first team are concerned, they still rate the recognition.

Sin-
nock’s outside jumpers and vast-
ly improved Tom Youngdale’s
shots from the free throw lane
against the Deacons’ brilliant
shooter, Paul Long.

The ‘Cats, hampered by nu-
merour turnovers, could never
break away. Finally, Jerry Mont-
gomery’s jump shot with. sec-
onds remaining narrowed the
Wake Forest deficit. to 33-32 at
intermission.

In the second half, with Huck-
el clamping down on Long. the
‘Cats were able to forge a vic-
tory out of 55 per cent shooting.
During one critical stretch of
four and oue-half minutes, they
rushed from a 47-41 margin to
a 61-43 lead.

After the game, new Deacon
Coach Jack McCloskey reflected
with disappointment, ‘Davidson
played real well. I thought our
Paul Long had a fine game, but
they did a job defensively on
him in the second half. We lost
our poise in there and let the
game get away from us."

Huckel, in addition to leading
Wildcat scorers with 18 points.
guarded Long after Sinnock drew
his third foul and limited him
to’ two field goals and a total of
six points in the ensuing 22 min-
utes.

Sinnock and Youngdale. who
garnered a game-high of 16 re
bounds. chipped in with 15
points apiece, while Moser di-
recled the team with poise,and
flashy ball-handling.

Deacons

The Davidson Wildcats, relying on a tenacious man-for-man defense and blister-
second-half shooting, ushered in a new, basketball season by trouncing Wake

ree—Scott Sinnock, Dave Moser and Wayne Huckel—

PITT, PALADINS

Cagers

To Test

Tough Teams

By DON SEWELL
Sports Writer

Davidson's cagers follow up
their opener with games against
the Pittsburgh Panthers and
Furman’s Purple Paladins. The
Panthers journey to the Char
lotte Coliseum tomorrow night
to test the 'Cats. Next Tuesday's
game against Furman will be
played cn the Paladins’ hard-
woods.

‘Pitt usually has a good team
and I am sure we will have to
play good basketball to beat
them,’ said Coach Lefty Drie-
sell. “We don't¢ know much
about their personnel, but Coach
(Gail) Catlett will have scouted
their opener against Carnegie
Tech.”

According to pre-season pre-
dictions, Pitt should be able to
better their dismal 7-15 record
of last season. Although they
lost key players from last year,
the Panthers will be depending
on returning men to mount pres-
sure defense and a free-wheel-
ing offense. Coach Bob Timmcns

. will have three starters from

last year’s squad around whom
to build.

Stan Falenski, who averaged
over 12 poiits per game last
year, will be at a guard posi
tion. Veteran Jim LaValley,. a
6-5 center, will be back at his
pivot slot after averaging
points there. last season. Ken
Bollens. a 6-4 forward, should
add rebounding strength. Join.
ing thes@ veterans will be mem
bers of last. year's freshman

10,

team, which finished 12-5.

Dave Welty will be Falenski's
partner in the backcourt. Lenny
Kalata. a 6-4 soph, will join
Bollens up front. Pitt's success
this season depends on the
strength added by the sopho-
mores.

Furman is play-ng this season
under a new head coach, Frank
Selvy. J. Lyles Alley, former
-coach, will be devoting full time
to being Furman's athletic di-
reclor. In his career as a Pala
din Selvy became the only ma
jor college player to score 100
points in a game against New.
berry in 1954. This feat is still
the inter collegiate record which
Selvy holds along with two oth-
er major records.

He and his Paladins will be
out to improve their 9-17 mark
of last season. With 6-5 Den
Webster. a 19-point per game
man last year, 6-6 Steve Law-
rence, 1! points per game, and
two strong sophomores, Furman
should be.a stronger team. The
sophomores who will start are
Jeff Melish, 22 points a game
as a freshman, and Dick Es
cleek, 18 per game last year.

“Webster is one of the best

big men in the conference, Law
tence and the two sophomores
are good too,” Driesell said.
“Besides, Furman is always
tough to beat.”
He added. however. that. since
this will be the ‘Cats’ first con-
ference game. his. squad will
really be out to win it. “Al con.
ference games are vital.’ he
sad.

Poole, Four Teammates

Get All-Conference Nod

Quarterback Jimmy Poole led
a contingent of five Davidson
players on the All-Southem Con.
ference 44 man squad announc-
ed Wednesday in Richmond.

Chosen to the second teams of

the squad by members of the
SC Sports Writers Association

were senior linebacker Tommy +

Dews, senior guard Bill Webb,

senior offensive end Bill Rikard -

and junior center Walter Greene.

Poole won the quarterback spot
on the first team, joining such
standouts as pro prospect Chuck
Albertson, offensive end from
William and Mary. and Garrett

Ford, possible All-America half. =
back choice from West Virginia. |
William and Mary and East

Carolina each placed four men

on the first 22. George Washing- ~

ton, West Virginia and Rich-
mcnd won three places with The

~ ing of Bill Toddman, Tom Walk-

-

~—_—-

(Photo Courtesy The Charlotte Observer)
“GET YOUR FINGER OUT OF MY NOSE”
Stroupe (L) Clutches Rebound As Scott Elbows Knowles

"Kittens Quell Wake Surge
To Net First Win, 103-90

By OANNY WHITE
Sports Writer

The Davidson Wildkittens held off a determined second-half comeback by the
Wake Forest frosh to post a 103-90 victory in the opening game of the season for
both teams. It was an especially satisfying victory for the ‘Kittens because the 1966
Deaclets were heralded as the greatest frosh ever at Wake Forest.

Coach Neil Johnston's Baby

Deacs, down 52-39 at the half. ¢

used a fast break and the shoot-

er and Fred Ackley to draw to
within three points of the ‘Kit-
tens in the second half. The
‘Kittens suddenly regrouped and
gradually broke the game wide
open with bullseye accuracy
from the foul line and deter-
mined hustle on the court. The
‘Kittens also dominated the
backboards, outrebounding the
Deacs, 62-4).

Big gun for the ‘Kittens was
pivotman Mike Maloy. Maloy
seored 26 points and pulled down
21 rebounds. Doug Cook, sharing
the double pivot with Maloy.
tossed in 23 points and grabbed
‘13 rebounds. Wingman Jan Post
ma got 24 points, mostly on im
portant foul shots in the seeond
half. plus eight rebounds. Wing
man Jerry. Kroll picked up 19
points, eight rebounds and threc
assists. Randy Jones scored four
points. Davis Liles and Johnny
Baker also saw action for the
“Kittens.

The Wildkittens and the Deac
lets started the game fast and
swapped basket for basket for
much, of the first half. The
Deacs gradually cooled off and
fell too far behind to catch up.

records this year and was a top vidson. were sophomore end | Maloy’s fantastic shots under

scorer in the Jeague much of
the. season, and safety Renn
Gruber, whose play was a major
factor in tightening a sometimes
leaky Wildcat defense.

Among the first team players
who performed well against Da.

ro
t.
E

he

Citadel earning two places. Fur- |

man, VMI and Davidson each

had one first team choice.
Noticeably absent from the

roster were two Davidson stand-

outs, tight end Pete Glidewell, +

who set several pass receiving

ee
JIMMY POOLE

ATO’S, SIGS TOUGH

IMAC Hoop Action Commences Monday

By 80B STUBBS
Sports Writer

IMAC basketball season
will get underway officially
Monday, IMAC president

games will be played at night.
except a few freshman games.”
Defending champions are the

to the squad.
The Kappa Sigs, who trail the
Phi Delts by 11 points in the

1

Jack Sherrill announced this
week.

Sherrill said this year’s
schedule is a round-robin
set-up, with no team playing
two games until all other
clubs have played. This ar-
rangement, Sherrill said,
will facilitate scheduling and
prevent any team from get-
ting far ahead of the others

in the number of games.

played.

“We will use:two courts simul-
taneously,’ Sherrill said, ‘‘but of
course we will have to work
around the freshman basketball

' practice schedule. There will be
it no games on Wednesdays since

ATO’s, who return with a veter- IMAC total standings, call them-
an team: “We are deep every- selves “the best of the league.”
where,” said Coach Geoff Birk- Ray Garrison will hold down the
head,” and I think we have a backcourt, with Tucker Laxton
good chance to win again. The and Dennis Nicholson providing
eventual champions will lose at height. The Sigs boast 13 play-
least one game due to better ers whom they say can play
league balance.-’ **good basketball.”

Rick Moore, Dave Hardemann, The Phi Gams are rebuilding
Dave Jennings and Birkhead re- this year after losing all their
turn from last year’s team, with strength on the boards. “We will
ex-Leftyist Cecil Clifton adding be good from the outside,” said
his prolific touch. Sophomores Rusty Brannon, ‘with such ca-
John Hanselman and Bill Clark pable stars as “Coach” Rich
are expected to aid the Tau Graham, Dan Sweet, Dave King.
cause. _ Doug Rhymes, Tommy Caldwell,

The Machis lost Basil Hicks Barry McLean and Dave Fearn-
from last year’s runner-up club. bach.”

Joel Williamson, Tommy Clay- The SAE’s said they will field

Embree and ‘Greasy locks"’ Bill
Smyth in ready reserve.
Veteran Ronnie Hunt wil) lead

the always rugged Delts, with house. as the Snakes look for- team spokesman, “but none is
George House and Cliff Duke ward to their best. season ever. good enough to mention. We'll

manning the backcourt. Hatchet-
man John Fagg and 6-5 soph Ray

Logan wil} give the Delts enough moreland. Tom Skinner and Bill good shot returning to the SPE
strength to better last year’s 7-5 Hearn may provide the spark house this year. Harvey Jackson
“we need.’ said Bobby Burch. and Roger Mercer may help the

record.

The Pikas are looking optimis- Ricky Pfitzner and Dave White SPE's during

tically toward third or fourth
place. They claim they will be

even more fabulous than in past year, the Pi Kapps return with several players to graduation or
years, with Bob O'Kelley, Bry- a veteran team that expects to the fraternity court. Bruce Weid.
ant Hinnant, Wayne Magnum, ‘win our share of victories."' ner. Charlie Vick, Bill Seigler
Tom Poston and John “Bubba Jimmy Robinson. Mac Fiddner, and Don Sewell will give the In-
Kill’ Croom leading the Pikas Tom Kirtley and Paul Curlee dies a solid base of talent.

Robbie Habn of Furman, full

the boards kept the crowd buzz-

back Larry Zunich of Richmond | ‘78. When he left the game with

and Mnemen Walter Bostic and
Johnny Crew of East Carolina.

GREENE

.
.

wal

RIKARD

WEBB

there is practice that night, and ton and Geordie Mueller will a “typically tough’’ team this down the glory road.
no games when the varsity plays provide experience, with tower- year if they don't have to play
in Davidson or Charlotte. Most ing Jeff Pflugner adding height on Friday night. Ed ‘Pitts’ seem to have little ability. With tertainment while reserves Doug
Armfield, Chet Davidson, Mike Sam Cathey out with an injured King. Mike Payne, Bob Reid
Booe, K. D. Weeks, Gresh Bayne wrist. Pete Glidewell, Jim Tim- and Brevard Wallace will pro-
and Jim Richardsen will start moans, Mac Otts and Jack Sherill vide entertainment while on the
for the E’s, with “Shotgun’’ Ed ‘will try to repeat their flicker- court.

The Betas are confident but

ball success during this cage
season.
Hope springs eternal at the Nu

Bill ‘Raff’ Barnett, ‘‘Stork”

Ramsey. Toby ‘Stud’ West-

will provide needed depth.
After a slugish season last

five fouls, he was given a stand-
ing ovation.

“I think that this will be the
toughest team that we will face
this year,’ said Kroll, ‘It was

Cook and Maloy thal won the
game for us.”

iFinmen

Year In

Coach Tom Stevens’ freshman

“land varsity swimming teams

unveil their mew season Mon-
day against Wake Forest in the
Deacons’ pool. Lack of depth
may prove a- factor this season.
since the mermen count only
eight squad members.

Heading the roster will be co-
captains John Helm and Steve
Barden. Helm will swim the

will start for the Pi Kapps. Bill
Adams will provide halftime en-

The KA’s have hustle but no
height. “All our starters are
juniors."” said an anonymous

win a few games this year.”
Fletcher Hartsell is the only

this rebuilding
year.

The Independents have lost

"

probably the overall hustle of
‘ithe team and the rebounding of

‘}free style

HELP’

Grapplers Open
At Duke Tonight

Paced by Colin Hudson
and Kerry Keith, the Wild-
cat grapplers open their sea-
son tonight at Duke, as
Coach Charies Parker faces
his age-old problem — lack
of participants.

Asked about the coming sea
son, Parker replied
‘Help!’ The ‘Cats have only
two weight classes with more
than: one participating wrestler,
and there is no one in line for
the 145 pound class.

“We'ré. real good af the lower
weights, and the top two weight
divisions have outstanding wres-
tlers,"” said Parker. ‘But Jack
of depth and the weaker middle
weights are going to hurt.”

Sophomore Hudson, undefeat.
ed as a freshman, will hold down
the 123 pound division. By the
Southern -Conference Tourna-
ment, he should be down to 115
and, according to Parker, will
be a good bet to win that divi-
sion in the tournament.

The 130 pound weight class will
be filled by senior captain Joe
Buffingtca. who lost only one
dual match last year. He has
been third in the conference for
two seasons and is expected to
improve this season.

Sophomore Dean Cromartie

Launch
Wake

butterfly events while Barden
competes in breast stroke races.

Stevens said Lloyd Davidson
will swim the breast stroke in
the .200-yard individual medley:
Rich Holt, the backstroke: Ed-
die Beach, the breast stroke:
Joe Friebel, the 200 yard med-
ley relay: Bobby Vagt. the free
style competition: and Laurie
Eckman aod Mike LaPlante, the
and back stroke
events. :

George House, Bob Rhea and
Tucker Dalton will dive, Ste-
vens said. ‘

The freshman team includes
Mae Davis. Doug Stott, John
Thacker, Ed Bartle. Wendell
Holmes. Bill Johnson, John
Mack, Pat Mullen, John Pow-
ell, Jack Wellman, Rick Saund.
ers and Jim Hinshaw.

99°
OLD

simply. .

DELICIOUS FLAMING STEAKS
SUCCULENT SEAFOOD PLATTERS

Served with choice of baked or French Fried
Potatoes, Gold Mine Salad and Garlic Roll

*
To

*

will tackle the 137-pound class.
which is one weight above what
he should hold. Nevertheless, he -
is expected to be a help to the
team.

Unless Parker ean pull a wres-
tler out of a hat to fill the 145-
pound class, this division will,
have to be forfeited in every
dual match. 4

In the 152-pound. division, soph
omores Bryan Pittman and Rick
Travilla are battling for the po-
sition with Pittman somewhat
ahead at present.

Senior Terry O’Hair is the
‘Cat hopeful at 160 pounds. ‘Ter-
ry has been working real. hard,”
‘said. Parker, ‘‘and should have
a good year.”

The 167-pound division is tak-
en by senior Jim Wilson, who
has never wrestled at all before
this season.

Sophomore Keith is expected
to have an outstanding season in
his 177-pound weight class. As a
heavyweight in his freshman sea-,
soa, the former Virginia state
high school champ went. unde-
feated even though he usually
wrestled men much bigger than
himself. :

Junior Lowell Bryan is the
aumber one heavyweight ahead
of junior Richard Martin. “He
lost only one dual match last
year,” said Parker, ‘‘and once
he gets into shape, he should
have a fine season.”

Duke, the first ‘Cat opponent,
is something of an unknown
quantity this season. Parker
commented, ‘‘We haven't wres-
tled them in three years, and I
really don't know what they
have.”

The wrestlers face a demand-
ing pre holiday schedule. Along
with Duke, the ‘Cats face VMI
and North Carolina in away
matches. Parker stated that
West Virginia and The Citadel
would be the top conference
teams this year.

The outlook for this season is
not the brightest. And the pros-
pects for depth in the seasons
ahead are not helped by the fact
that only five freshmen have
shown up for this year’s ’Kitten
team, which could necessitate
the cancellation of the freshman
schedule. However, with the help.
of Hudson and Keith, the ‘Cats
should be able to improve on
their 2-7 mark of last season.

$7] 39

REIN |

FLAMING STEAKS

COLISEUM SHOPPING CENTER
3714 EAST INDEPENDENCE BOULEVARD
Ve MILE EAST OF COLISEUM
