The BDavidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except
during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson,

N. C.
Louis LESESNE CHRIS HAWK
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1967

For The Young

For years there have been vague
hints about the possibility of eventu-
ally hiring an artist-in-residence here,
though until now nothing concrete has
been done. The prospect has ordinar-
ily been promoted in connection with
fund drives, with the idea that “there
will be an artist on the campus when
we get the money.”

Now it appears that the money is
around, though how much and for ex-
actly what purpose is not exactly
clear. But the Dean of the Faculty has
enough assurance of the money's be-
ing available that he invited a prestig-
ious American poet to remain at Da-
vidson for several months. ;

The artist-in-residence concept is
an attractive one and much needed at
Davidson. The admission that funds
are available is the first step toward
implementing the program. But the di-
rection indicated in the dean’s choice
of artists suggests a misconception of
what the plan could and should be.

Granted, Donald Davidson has con-
tributed more than his share to Amer-
ican letters, but his contribution does
not make him an ideal figure for a
resident artist program. A much more
vital program would incorporate plans
for bringing in new and unrecognized,

though promising, talent, to remain on
campus. Much as College Union Direc-
tor C. Shaw Smith has evolved a plan
for utilizing young entertainment tal-
ent, a plan that is beneficial both to
the college and the entertainer, so
could both aspiring artists and the col-
lege well benefit from the experience
of using untried literary talent.

While figures such as Mr. Davidson
obviously carry a great dea] more
prestige than do unpublished poets, it
is the younger artists who are able to
establish rapport with student feeling
and who are more aware of current
trends and themes. Dr. Davidson is
a product of the Depression, while
contemporary college students lack
even a recollection of World War II.
The so-called Generation Gap stares
us in the face.

For purely financial reasons as well,
younger, less established artists have
more to offer. Lacking a reputation,
they can demand less in compensa-
tion, and the college can get more
mileage from its hard-earned dollar.

The situation would be ideal for the
young writer: a sufficient income, an
opportunity to write, and contact with
interested college students.

Those Empty Balcony Seats

One little noticed advantage accom-
panying the renovated auditorium in
Chambers is the decreased seating ca-
pacity. But the advantage comes not
so much from having fewer people
sitting on the main floor, but rather
for the first time having someone in
the balcony at the thrice weekly as-
semblies.

Faculty attendance at chapel talks
has always been notoriously lax; while
students dutifully file to their ap-
pointed seats in order -to find their
niche in the friendly IBM computer,
more faculty members can be found
chit-chatting over coffee than taking
in the morning’s speech.

It’s difficult to know what stance
one should take toward assembly and
the faculty’s attitude toward it. If the
old line about the benefits from hear-
ing diverse opinions such as are ex-
pressed in assembly are valid for stu-
dents, they are just as much so for
the faculty.

The situation is fairly clear in the
majority of cases. The administration,
having made a commitment to three
assemblies a week, feels a certain ob-
ligation to fill them, no matter what
the quality of speaker. Consequently,
more often than not the lectern is fill-
ed by a local minister who has talked
at too many Wednesday night prayer

meetings and local politicians who are
stuck on the American Legion circuit.

Such speakers have little to say, and
what they do have has been said on
numerous occasions before. Certainly
no one would blame faculty members
from absenting themselves on such
occasions—students themselves mere-
ly endure rather than absorb in the
circumstances.

Such speakers’ greatest ' contribu-
tion is to cast doubt on the basic in-
tegrity of the assembly system as a
whole, or at least on its administra-

on.

But the trend of faculty attendance
at assemblies goes beyond the unof-
ficial boycott of run-of-the-mill speak-
ers—even for the singularly outstand-
ing speakers that infrequently find
their way to Davidson faculty attend-
ance is less than ideal. In fact, it is
downright poor. A turnout of approxi-
mately one-third of the faculty for the
semester’s most stimulating speaker
recently was considered an encourag-
ing sign.

What is needed is an honest ap-
proach to the entire chapel assembly
Structure. If it’s going to be main-
tained, why not have competent speak-
ers and genuine faculty interest? If
neither is forthcoming, why not agree
to suspend the whole operation?

HALCYON INDIFFERENCE IN HARD TIMES

Aging Youth Ignore Mission To Reshape World

From the Boston University BU NEWS
The Collegiate Press Service

If there is something about age which de-
activates the sexual organs, dissipates the
political impetus, and eliminates all hope in a
sea of despair, then we are surely on the brink
of some colossal end, for our students are grow-
ing old when they have scarcely begun to be
young.

Their youth alone will allow them to prac-
tice their sexuality maturely and without either
adolescent prurience or elderly cynicism, to
foment a political revolution which strikes at
the heart of the established ‘‘values,"’ to reject
in the academic community that which is fab-
ricated or false.

But there is no place for youthful, halcyon
indifference in a world methodically destroying
itself in a maze of textual footnotes. subway
clatter, pills, television fancies, packaged
beauty. ‘‘show'’ Negroes, napalm bombs, and
gilt-edged murder. Every infant. as a popular
song tells, is born with the ghostly inheritance
of 20 tons of TNT and an adult responsibility
which makes simplicity all but impossible.

Like all the old, we will die. And why
should we be concerned when the monstrous
cloud will not lighten. the harlot still walks the
streets, and the educator teaches cant and
sullen introspection?

We are getting old, growing up, and the
odds are against our making any news.

A. J. Muste was old, 82, but he made news.
His charm and freshness hung about him like
the flesh on his pointed cheek-bones. He had

an inner light, a seriousness which kept him
on planes, in jail, and at his desk working
against war. He did not betray his common
humanity, but remained a man. In this sense,
he never lost his potency.

Tom Hayden and Paul Potter are old, near-
ing 30. They helped found Students for a Demo-
cratic Society when the notion of politically-
aware students was almost inconceivable, and
they now run the Newark Community Action
Project and the Educational Cooperative of
Boston, respectively. Even though their tena-
city has not visibly affected American society.
they continue to organize and activate on that
inner light, which says:

Hard times may be ripe, Vietnamese chil-
dren dead, and the spirit of poetry quite gone,
but I will stand for life. even if I stand alone.

And what else is there to do, as adulthood
approaches? If life is truly a matter of keep-
ing occupied for the sake of remaining some-
thing and somebody, then not even Hiroshima,
or the statistical analysis of American business
trends abroad, or the saccharine fraudulence
of the airline stewardness' smile, can defeat us.

The young must be mature enough to take
power, now, and to build it imaginatively, or

they will surely not be any more able to shape .

their own ends than their elders have been.

If the war is confusing, and it surely is,
they must send their own observers to it to see
it plain, without asking the University's per-
mission or the world's. They must do it, move,
and be serious. If the war is moreover im-
moral, they must refuse to fight in it, and

Universities In France

In Need Of ‘Middle Step’

Dear Editor:

Many American students,
bogged down in their system-
atic educational process with
its constant emphasis on
grades, think that the Europe-
an system of ‘‘independent
study” is surely more favor-
able for the development of
the truly educated person.

College students in the
States must learn to make
their rather mechanical sys-
tem work for them rather than
against them. though the com-
plicated network of reviews,
pop tests, required classes,
and grades often lead the stu-
dent into a kind of four-year
ritual of the system’s organi-
zation rather than a discovery
of the real education for which
this organization is meant to
be only a guide.

In France, a student has his
specialty in mind as early as
the age of 13 or 14. while still
in a lycee (similar to our
high school). The lycee gradu-
ate enters one of several fac-
ulties dispersed throughout the
city. choosing the one which
treats his specialty.

The distinction between our
system and the French one is
important. We folllow an ABC
approach: high school. college
or university, and graduate
school pending a desire to spe-
cialize.

In France, however, the mid-
dle step is missed, and all
that's available after the ly-
cee, if one wishes to continue,
is to specialize. As I see it.
the middle step is vitally im-
portant if the truly educated
person is to exist.

‘Know-It-All’

The American system en-
courages the multitude of stu-
dents to progress steadily, ‘de-
spite (or because of) its rig-
orous grading techniques. In
France, the more liberal sys-
tem, giving the student the
freedom we often desire,
seems a disaster for the mass-
es, It turns them out sluggish-
ly into society without having
seriously pressured them to
excel or educate themselves
as they must in such a sys-
tem.

I should emphasize that it
may remain an ideal system
for the individual who has a
clear idea of his interests and
goals.

I cannot see the average
French student as more aware
or more critical of the socio-
political situation of his coun-
try than the American stu-
dent is of his, though it would
appear the French education-
al system should encourage
this.

Ostensibly, the pamphleteer-
ing of certain student groups
indicates a more activist-
minded trend in student opin-
fon here. But actually most
French student. dwell within
the same rather passive at-
mosphere that is evident on
the American campus in ques-
tions of national politics. so-
cial and cultural develop-
ments, and the like—not an
attitude of indifference, but
neither one which is constant-
ly expressed.

When I said the majority
here does not fit into the sys-
tem, this is not to say the stu-
dents won't eventually get by:

Students

Find Staunch Defender

Dear Editor:

Messrs. Shuford, Bumbarger
Jr., and Bumbarger (letters to
the editor, March 3, 1967) are
a comfort to a weary alumnus.

No longer need I be appre-
hensive that my alma mater
is being turned over to you
and your long-haired cohorts
who consider yourselves ‘“‘ca-
pable of solving—the Vietnam
War, the National Peace Coun-
cil, the college lecture series,
the college book store, the
physical education depart-
ment, the college laundry, sub-
sidized athletics and the Liv-
ing Endowment.”

The omniscient intellectuals
can return to their cloisters.

I realize now thet mv fears
have been naught but *Vusions.
Davidson is a perfectly. normal
institution: she has atumni
who already know ‘‘all the an.
swers.”

But. in entrusting you bovs
“of Genius and other Good
Dispositions’ to the ‘‘Care and
Discipline’® of these gentle-
men. I should like to request
that they treat your puerile
fulminations with a tolerance
as bountiful as their years.
that they be forgiving of your
adolescent splits with stylistic
orthodoxy.

I believe their Ciceronian al-
lusion to your use of infinitives
was a bit too harsh. In your
excessive concern with the
problems of Davidson and the
world beyond, you cannot be
expected to be familiar with

such standard reference works
as Fowler's Modern English
Usage.

You could not possibly have
known that the English-
speaking world may be divided
into (1) those. who neither
know nor care what a split in-
finitive is; (2) those who do
not know, but care very much;
(3) those who know and con-
demn; (4) those who know and
approve: and (5) those who
know and distinguish.”

Those in the first group ‘‘are
the vast majority, and are a
happy folk. to be envied by
most of the minority classes.”
Those in the second group are
a wretohed lot who ‘betray
by their practice that their
aversion to the split infinitive
snrints not from instinctive
good taste, but from tame ac-
centance of the misinterpreted
ovinion of others: for they will
sub’ect their sentences to the
queerest distortions, all to es-
cape imaginary split infini-
tives.”

And Fowler? He obviously
lends his support to the fifth
group: “A real split infini-
tive, though not desirable in
itself, is preferable to either
of two things, to real ambig-
uity, and to patent artificial-
ity.”

Remember: to be understood
really, editorial writers must
strive to equip better them-,
selves. ‘

CHARLES L. DIBBLE
Paris XV

they will finally progress and
enter a profession. But I can't
help feeling they would be glad
to be subjected to our three
step education before special-
izing. even with its constant
grading.

Between high school and
graduate school, we have an
opportunity for a kind of spe-
cializing in the liberal arts.
and we can decide clearly
whether we want to continue
on to graduate school—an ad-
vantage I think France should
recognize and weave into its
own system.

JIM McLAUGHLIN
Montpellier, France

Draft Alternative
Equally Unfair

Dear Editor:

Last week’s DAVIDSONIAN
contained two articles concern
ing a petition circulating the
campus dealing with service
in the Peace Corps or VISTA
as an alternative to the mili-
tary draft. While this petition
has obviously been undertaken
with the best of motives, it
appears that at least one co-
gent argument has been de-
nied consideration.

It is fairly well acknowledg-
ed that the military draft in
the United States is unfair. It
discriminates against the poor.
the uneducated, and collective-
ly against the Negro commun-
ity. The present rate of induc-

tion for the draft-age Negro is

some 20 per cent above that
of the rest of the population. It
would follow that any changes
undertaken to remedy the con-
scription problem should be
done with the goal of correct-
ing this disparity in percent-
ages.

One article was quoted as
saying that the applicant for
the service corps must meet
“stringent’’ qualifications in
order to be accepted. These
qualifications would certainly
include a college degree or col-
lege experience. Thus the so-
cially deprived classes would
receive no alternative to mili-
tary service.

Adoption of a program such
as the petition advocates would
increase the disparity by class
or income found in the draft
rather than reduce it; because
the approval of the petition's
plan would favor the educated
and the economically sounder
groups.

While not being one to de-
bate either upon the morality
of the war in Vietnam or
champion the cause of minor-
ities without reason, I do feel
that correction of the present
draft situation must proceed
along strictly equalitarian
lines. A man’s service in the
Peace Corps might well be
valuable to the country, but
his service for pay cannot be
equated with the condition of
one who pays for his service
with his life..

I would urge alt Davidson
students who believe that the
U.S. military draft should be
changed to wipe out discrim-
inatory practices in selection
to give careful thought to the
results of this petition before
supporting it.

1 SAM GWYNN
Davidson College

The Gospe

must stand by their youthful faith. They must
make news.

If the University’s dormitory policies are
ill-conceived and inhumane, they must disobey,
for free men cannot make choices if they suc-
cumb to tyranny. If education is irrelevant,
they will see through it, stage their Academic
Revolution teach-ins, and begin to alter it
radically.

If moral standards are outdated and inimi-
cal to human nature, they will make love, for-
nicate with impunity, display their youthful
honesty and their blameless flesh. Youth is
faith, faith the root of all power, power the
song and dance of life.

Power is music and harmony, sweetness
out of disorder, the capacity to move at one’s
will and to be young; age is weakness and dis-
cord, blindness and sterility.

Only the young, whatever their age, can
sing, lead the cosmic dance, believe. By act-
ing on the strength of their convictions, they
are sure of their goais, can reserve their ener-
gies and go on to a serious challenge of the
status quo. Precisely because they are young,
they must emerge from the Almost Grown to
the Grown, and infiltrate the skeletal founda-
tion of the society they have not built.

Song need not express’ joy; it often ex-
presses determination, tragedy, or conviction.
What is important, so to speak, is that-we must
have something to sing about, something to
say, and to believe. We must find the middle
ground between indifference and dogmatism —
we must find conviction.

Without such conviction, all is lost, the
serious reforms unattainable, and we wait
only for the grave, which is not distant, and
the state of nothingness.

On the surface, there is no honest faith
left — a position in an insurance company,
perhaps. and a suburban wife to inseminate,
with suburban children to raise, but all an anti-
climax, a post-orgasm slumber. Human life 1s
over: and the seed spent, where imagination
ails.

It is a matter of life or death, of sexuality,
intelligence and humanity or sterility, passive
stupidity and a hideous Armageddon. The
power is clearly ours, for we can withhold our
support from a society and an ethic which can-
not exist without it.

We can have Student Congress open its
own dorms with simple legal incorporation and
a larger personal contribution from each stu-
dent; we can ignore the older and more pomp-
ous sexual morality until it no longer is taken
‘seriously; we can tear down the Roxbury slum
and build a new community in its place: we
can study war no more. :

If we do not. while we are Almost-Grown,
grow up with an intent seriousness of purpose
to reshape in our own image — in man’s
image — the world that men have allowed
themselves to believe ts built in the image st
God, then we will be partner to Him in dur
delusion.

We will kill and we will be self-righteous,
and we will grow truly old before our proper
time — never — has come.

By JOHN BAILEY
Associate Editor

According]
To John

Sentimental Conclusions

1 GUESS I am as sentimental as a senior can get.
When I look back upon a year of semi-monthly col-
umns I can’t help but think of all the things I wish I
had said.

I have learned a lot, especially about colleges in
general and Davidson in particular, during the last
year. One of the most important things I have gained
is an understanding of the nature of criticism. I don’t
guess there is any institution in the world more sus-
ceptible to sincere critical scrutiny then the college.
And there are many elements of criticism which are
obvious but can bear discussion.

* * *

IT IS EASY to detract from a college and find
fault with it. Unless a person gives his criticism direc-
tion he is contributing nothing. We should all be aware
of the implications of our criticism. When you criti-
cize the administration you are dealing with the ele-
ment that runs the college; the faculty and admnistra-
tion are actually trying to do the best they can to pro-
vide the strongest possible academic program.

Criticism of students may fall under much the
same category. Most students are honestly concerned
about the welfare of the college. To pass off student
comment as unworthy of appraisal is totally unjust.
Student opinion is important and should be given an
ear and an analysis. Contrary to some faculty opinions
most students are not concerned with how to get the
diploma in the easiest possible manner. Most students
want to get all they can from their education. ‘

FACULTY MEMBERS as a group have a greater
understanding of the needs of the college than most of
us are willing to admit. They are on the faculty because
they are qualified to make Davidson College the best
possible place to get a liberal arts education. They are
not here to dominate the student’s life and see how
many rules they are able to force him to conform to.
They are here because they want to be and because
they are concerned.

__, The usual tenure of a student at Davidson College
is four years. During that time he generally comes to
realize the value of the education he is getting. At the
same time he sees things that he doesn’t like, and he
may set out in a flurry to get things changed. Often-
times he has overlooked the long-run picture which the
faculty views year in and year out. Thus the faculty is
viewed as the most petrified body in the world. Such
an attitude is unjustified simply because, just like the
building of Davidson College into what it is, change
takes time and patience.
* * *

VENOMOUS CRITICISM without any real purpose
or direction is wholly out of place in the context of the
college, and institution where real concern should be
evinced. The individual student has a real responsibil-
ity to himself and to his institution. And this responsi -
bility should be reflected in his criticism. We must all
have an awareness of this quality, for without it the de-
Sire to improve is useless.

I have often wondered why criticism is so rampant
on the college campus. I believe it is due to the ‘fact
that the members of the community are Specialists in
the field of intellectual creativity and concern. It is un-
fortunate that there is often a wide gap opened be-
tween faculty and students, two elements with so much
potential and ability and so little real understanding
of each other.

* * s
__ BUT THIS SITUATION is not beyond hope as lon
as the endless dialogue does not degenerate into cyne
cism and despair. The problem is not really whether or
not the two will continue to work together. Rather, it
is a question of whether or not they will continue to
try to work together. The dichotomy exists and will
always be there. It is built into the system. But this
does not mean that the faculty and the student body
should cease to try to improve its relationship. At Da-
vidson there has been real progress along these very
lines, and the future looks even better. These inter-

personal relationships are really wh
education is all about. Y what the Hberal arts

To ensure that this progress will continue to de-
velop as it should there are certein Statements that
must be clearly articulated from the proper quarters.
The faculty must make clear its faith in the students
of the institution. This is much more than merely a
faith in the ability of the students; it is a confdence
that ine average stident s really just that, a person

v about people and inter In get-
ting all he can from his pdveation terested in e
* e

THE STUDENT, on the other hand, must justif
this renewed faith on the part of the professor dy giv.
ing evidence of his sense of responsibility and willing-
ness to work things out in a cooperative effort. It is
obvious that students exert more influence than ever
before on the formulation of their own educational en-
vironment. Along with this authority goes an increase
in the responsibility we have been talking about.

I have run the circle in writing the ‘Gospel” for
an academic year. At the reader’s expense I have tried
out my ideas, some of which were new, some old,
some. contradictory. Writing a column such as this one
i enjoyable and educational because it is probably the
est means of ra bression in the news medium, and

it allows great latitude and eas ng,
especially in the realm of criticism. fase of writing
* *

THE EDITOR'S JOB is difficult because he must

be objective and methodical in his criticisms where I
can be nostalgic and irrational if I choose. The writer
° letters to the editor is often handicapped by lack of
nowledge and background on the subject he gets heat-
ed up about, and the fact that he is usually “hot” does
pot help. The columnist is immune to issues of which he
nows nothing; he doesn’t even have to consider them,
and passion only serves to give the column spice. The
poor newsman cannot even get away with expressing

an opinion, and if he injects critici
deleted. The column is best and ¢ an it is edited and

Instead of getting emotional about i
and drawing all this to a close with a single summarise

ing moral I'll just take m
and end with this criticise prerogative as a columnist
