Page Four February 10, 1967

Ce

The Dauidanitian

_

— 7

Laundry To Iron Out
Pressing Problems

The Student Council will con- hangers etiminating creases and

duct a poll in one of next week's
chapels tv determine student re-
action to proposed changes in
laundry service for next year.
C. W. Stacks, manager of the
college Inundry, soya that all
laundries as of Utis year come
under the federal minimum
wage law. This, he says, will
result In increased lator costs
for the college toundry. which
ordinarily would have to be met.

wrinkles caused by folding and
packaging

Stacks says he realizes there
will be students who wil! want
theit pajamas and pants ironed! |
and this service will be avall-
able at additional cost,

Stacky sees this as the most
sensible answer to incrensod |a-
bor expenses which would other-
wise increase student cost by
almost 60 per cent over the next

nmmch discussion of the preaaing students asked for a contioun
af pants. In reaponse to atudent dion of this in a petitian. Now the
requests, dhe Janndry stopped laundry is selecting what pants
pressing pants. After this, other to press.

MIDWINTERS!

‘Let us-clean your suits, coats, pants,
sweoters, and ties and wash your good

shirts for the weekend.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD,
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

THE ELK'S RESTAURANT

Tho Most Enjoyable Atmosphere In the
Cantral Carolinas

by incresaed rates.
' Stacks has offered two pfo-
posals that would not result in
fnereased charges. These pro-
posals are the outgrowth of
student action and inquiry led
by ‘fom Earnhardt. The two
; choices are lo end college laun-
\ dey service as it exists now and
- substitute iL with coin operated
Laundromats or 10 tnodify the

four yoars,

Luncheon and Dinner Specials
Mon. - Thurs.

A Buffet Served - All You Can Eat -
every Sunday from 1) :30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
The beautiful Gold Room is now available

The only other alternative js
soln operated laundromats and
diabanding of the laundry.

Stacks gays there has been

Main St. Across From Gulf Station

_— t service by reduc
fur for parties and banquets. Call anytime for
The Jaundry cau provide

|shects nnd pillow cases for the reservations.

entire student hady and launder
them cheaper than they can

Jaunder: the student's own linen. Located on Highway 21 just across from the

, Besides providing students Mooresville Golf Course
mn fh — with linen at no extra cost. N
ce - a ss ____. | Slacks’ new proposal wouid In- OW ow. ay ;
’ clude separate laundering of 1. : The ELK‘S Now Operated Under New Management
JOSH WHITE, IR. TO RETURN shirts. These would be hung on Just arrived a eee P

the LONDON FOG
JACKET
in anew tasty color...

Josh White, Jr., son of the fotksinger and a folksinger himself,
will pay o return visit to Davidson during Midwinters. Whito
will stage an informal concert in the early morning hours
Saturday, Feb. 18 al the Union. Main attractions for Mid-
winters are The Impressions, who, along with The Showman,
will play at the Lake Norman Mouse of Mualc, Friday night,
Feb. 17. Folksinger Judy Collins will give a concord on Satur-
day ‘night. Following her concert, the Union wit show the film

Symphony To Give
Concerf Monday

The Baltimore Symphony Or-
chestra will open the 1967 Artist
Series Monday at 8:15 p.m. in

JACKSON CLEANERS

Seven Days in May.

189 Rushees Accept

Bids To Fraternities

The 189 Freshmen pledging a
Jeaternity are as follows:

Alpha Tau Omega: Eddie
Bridges. Dennis Burt, McCrea
Ewart, Andy Goodson, Ken Hill,
Todd Hutton, James Puckett,
George Robinson. Wray Stevens.

Beta Thela Pi: John Baker.
Wright Caughman, Charles Cow-
sert. Ken Crows, Mike Culbreth.
John Foster, Bil] Gammon, Rich-
ard Howard, Guy Jeter, Dave
McCiintack, John Powell, Hunter
Rice, Ken Rice, Ed Terry, Bart
Walker, John Zahartov.

Kappa Alpha: Nelson Abell,
Karl Bauknight. Joe Carr. Ed
Castelloe, John Chalk, Neal Dett-
mering. Dale Durham, John
Ferguson. Dnve Fishback.
Romey Fisher, Frank Gray,
George Hannen. Dan Herd. Tad
Lowdermilk, Jim McAdams, Ed

ny MeLawhorn. Sain McNevley,
George Moskos. Charlie Sandlin,
dim Smoak, Bob Wrenn.

Phi Delia Theta: Ed Bartle,

Love Auditorium.

The 82 mah orchestra is under
the djrection of Peter Herman
Adler, who became permanent
conductor in 1959.

As a director, Adjer has had
experiance jn television and
opera. He founded the NBC!
Opera Company which present-
ed televised productions and has
conducted at the New York City
Opera Company.

For the first time, Artist Ser-

‘les tickels will be sold on a re-

served seal basis. Students may
pick up their Free tickets at the
Union desk until 4 p.m. of the

Emerson Bell. Mac Davis. Terry| day of the program.

Esterkamp. David Fisher. Garth
Hampton, Pierce Irby. Joe Kil-
patrick, Jim May. Ben Moore.
Bill Moretz, Whit Morrow.:
George Pennick. Jann Postma. '
Car! Salter. Doug Stott. David
Thompson. Bil) Traxler. Tom
Way,

Phi Gomma Delta: Randall
Fields, Thomas Powell, Terrell
Pullinm, Sam Rankin, Steve
Rowland,

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: David
Brancl:, Charles Brockwell, Sid
Cottingham, Ed Dannely, Dwight
Hale, Allen Hawkins. Lynn
Himes, Wendell Holmes. Dave
Hostetter, Rusty Mickler, Glenn

of other popular colors.
Regulars and Longs.

John Mock & Son

MOORESVILLE

Clothing For The Pace Setting Traditionalist

Clip this coupon
and cut your fare in halt

lt you’re @ student under 22, you can go half-fore
almost anywhera Eastern goes with an Eastern
Youth Faro ID card. Simply fil) in the coupon. En-
close proof of age, plus a $3.00 check of monay
order payable to Easier Alrilnes..

_ f
If everyihing’s In order, we'll eend you your Youth «= Now isn’t

Fare ID card sntitling you to fly coach on Eastern
for half-fare anytima there’s a sagt available at
departure time. The Youth Fare ts not available for
o few aay during the Thankagiving, Christmas and
Easter h 6%

ogreat ID?

(By the author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys!"
“Dobie Gillia,” ete.

On Conpue

STAMP OUT YOUNG LOVE

Tt happena every day. A young man goes off to collage,
leaving hia home town sweetheart with vows of eternal
love, and then he finds that he has outgrown her. What, in
atch cases, is the honorable thing to do?

Well sir, you can do what Crunch Sigafoos did,

Whon Crunch left hie home in Cut and Shoot, Pa, to go
off to a prominent midwestern university (Florids State)
he sald to hin sweetheart, a wholesome country jaes named
Mildred Bovine, “My dear, though I am far away in col-
lego, I will love you always. I take a mighty oath I will
never look at another girl. [f I do, may my eyeballa parch
and wither, may my viscera writhe like addera, may my
ever-press slacks go baggy |"

Then he clutched Mildred to hia bosom, flicked some

Page, Mike Page. Walter Park. Praay, Paul Rothert, Dave heyeeed from her hair, planted a fins! kine upon her free
horst, Ricky Phillips, Theo Welch. Dick Young. grant Peg 3B ul I and went away, meaning with all his
Powell, Rick Saunders, Roy Sigma Chi: Bob Buchanan, But on the vary frst day of college he met a coed named

Stuckey, Butch Thompson, Dan-
ny White. Clarence Wilson. Jim
Winship, Bruce Wolff.

Bill Cockzill, Fox Demaijsey.
Marvin Elitson, Edgar Exum,
Bill Gregory, Gary Henschen.

Irmgard Champerty who was studded with culture like a
ham with cloves, She knew verbatim the complete works
of Franz Ka she sang solon in stereo, she wore a binck

Kappes Sigma: Cooper Brant: Bill Hortan, Normen Hurwitz, leather jacket with on original Goya on the back.
i Well air, Crunch took one look and his jaw dropped and
ley. Charles Brown, William Jerry Kroll, Jim Long. Mike his nostrils pulaed Iie a bellows and i i turned

Brown. Doug Cook, Harry Gold.
man, Gary Hemric. Jim Hin-
shaw, Randy Jones, Mike Kelly,
Terry Miller. Garrell Nichotson.
Robert Norfleet. Tommy Nor-
wood, Cliff Patterson. Gordon
Slade, David Troxler,

Pi Kappa Alpha: Stan Bittner,
Pat Bray, John Bryant, C. L.
_ Cheshire, Scott Davis, Mike
Fleming. Tom Hart, Tommy

Maloy, Robert Murray, John
Puckett, Bill Schafer, Ty Wait.
Dave Wasserman. Jerry With-
row. .
Signsa Nu: Gary Baskin. Steve
Hayes, Joe Hughes, Bil} Johnson,
Bob Johnson, Bob Stubbs. Keith
Sykes, Bill Waldrop. Lee Wal.
lace. Jack Wellman. Tom Whent
ley.

Sigma Pht Epalion: John Bar.

to sorghum. Never had he beheld such sophistication, such
intellect, such savoir faire. Not, mind you, that Crunch
was a dolt. He was, to be sure, a country boy, but he had a
head on hia shouldere, belleve you me! Take, for instance,
his choice of razor blades. Crunch always shaved with
Porvonna Super Stainiess Stec) Blades, and if that doean't
show good sense, I am Rex the Wonder Horse. No othor
blade ahaves you so comfortably eo often. No other binive
brings you such fecial felicity, such epidermal ofan.
Porsonne Super Stainiers Steel Blades take the travail out
of shaving, acrap the acrapo, negate the nick, peal the ull,
oust the ouch. Furthermore Personnas are availabic both
in double-edge style and In injector style. If you're smart

Hendren, Fred Kastner, Joe ber Marvin Bethune, Randy pace rsonn

; . ; ~and I'm sure you are, or howd you get out of high echool
Lansinger, Jim Lee. Jolmny Carter, Danny Coltrane, Ken —you'l ta
Leintz, David Liles. Jatm Mack, Cool, Boly Dunham, Marshal! "But I'd Gran wre have econ, was intents

John Mize, Pat Mullen, Stagg
Newman, Chartes Newton. Dan
Sheperd, Mike Sheeriil, George
Sprout.

Pi Kappa Phi: David Burdorf,
Deno Econamou, Frank Heiner,
Mac Habby, Joho Huggins, Dan.

Feaster, David Felkel, Steve
Fiolder, Norris Frederick, Crnig
Gamer, David erring, Fred

James, Athiey Kline. Gone Lin- |
ton. John Mooro. Rabert Pyentt, |

Harrell Rentz, Kent Rinates, Bll
Shutt, Daniel Spencer.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

Monday—Friday

Pipe Smoker

Thia ad, with your Daviduon [D cond, will entitle you io a

20 Per Cent Discount
on pijre (oly) purchasn.

British Tan
19.00
Also jn 4 collection

But I digress. Crunch, as we have seon, was instantly
smitten with Irmgard Champorty. All day he followed her
around campus and Hatened to hor talk about Frans Kaflca
and Iike that, and thon be went back to his dormitory and
found this letter from hin home town eweotheart Mildred:

Dear Crunch:

Us kidn kad o keen time yesterday. Wo went down to
the posd and caught some frogs. f cought the most of
srybody. Then wo hitched rides on trucks and did lota
of nutoy stuff Uke that. Well, f must close now because I
got to whitewash the fonce.

Your friend,
Mildred

PS.,..1 know how to ride backwards on my skateboard.

Well air, Crunch thought about Mildred and then he
thought about Irmgard and then a great andneas fell upon
him. Suddenly he knuw he had outgrown young, innocent
Wibired ; his heart now belonged to smart, soph{stiented

ringord.
Being above all things houorable, he returned forth-
with to Cut and Shoot, Pa., and looked Mildred atraight in
tho oye and sald maniily, “I do not love you any mors. I
love another, You can hit me in the stomach all your might
if you want to"

“That's oleay, hey,” enid Mitdred amlably. “I don't love
you noither. I found a new boy’

“What is bis name?" asked Ceonch,

“Franz Kafin! said Mildred,

J hope ‘ov will be very happy!’ cald Crunch and shook
Mildred's hand and they have remained good friends to
this day. fn fact, Crunch and Irmyard often double-date
with Franz and Afidred and have harrely of fun. Franz
knows how to ride hackwardaon his clateboard one-legged,

“se 4 @1WT. Mat Giectmae
So oi soe, ails woll that endo wallineluding a shave
with Personna Super Stainless Stoel Blodes and
Personno’s poriner in lusury shaving—BurmoShave. [i

cones in menthol or ro ic
comes in mel gular; it soaks rings around any
