Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published woekly by the atudents of Davidson Colbege daring the school year, except
Curing hotidays and examination periods. Entered os second cinss matser at Davidson.

N.C.
Louis LesEesné
Ediroc-2n-Cheef
FAGE TWO

CHRis HAWK »
Business Maneger

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1967

A New Protest

A significant change in American
youth's attitude and approach to the
Vietnam War has slowly, but steadily,
matured over the past months, to 4
position of where it is now “respect.
able."' so to speak, to speak out against
the U.S commitment of nearly 500.-
000 men in Southeast Asia,

In October 1965 funder a different
editorial stafft. this newspaper quated
a number of dally newspapers com.
menting on a peace demonstration.
The demonstrators were saddled with
such epithets as “pacifists, beatniks,
dedicated Communists, scres balls, and
some simply misguided youths.” ;

These ‘dregs of society” were said
1o have “exceeded the limits of free
speech and dissent.” that is. they had
dared to question the Administration's
party line

Times have changed now. The
“mainstream? of American students.
are questioning now. and it’s np longer
taboo to do so. The question of which
came first, the expanded protest or
the willingness of society to listen lor
ai least not to condemn}. may be aca
demic. What the changes indicate is
a serious discontent on the part of
the people who will have to bear the
cost of the war.

The petition signed by student lead-
ers af 200 colleges and universities,
including Davidson. and the 2-1 oppo.
sition by the nation's college editors,
according to a poll taken last weekend
at an editors conference. are indica-
tive of the new “respectability” of pro-

Reform The Board

Catholic colleges and universities,
under strict parochial, ¢lerical admin-
istration. have traditionally lagged in
the realm of educational innovations.
But the trend has been reversed re-
cently, a5 one after another Catholic
school has announced liberalization in
the administrative siructure of their
schools, changes that Davidson's trus-
tees could well take to heart.

Most notably, Webster College in
Missouri, a Catholic school for women,
is completely separating itself, in a
legal sense, from its founding order
and placing itself uncer lay control,
Its president is leaving the order, in
order to stay on as president.

A number of other Catholic schools.
ineluding St. Louis University, Notre
Dame, Loyola University in Hiinois
and John Carroll University in Ohio,
are going through with plans to ex-
pand lay control over their colleges.

“The very nature of higher educa-
tion is opposed to juridictal contro] by
the church.” said Miss Jacqueline
Grennan, president of Webster. “The
academic freedom which must charac-
terize a college or university would
provide continuing embarrassments
for the church if her hierarchy were
forced into endorsing or negating the
action of a college or university."

Davidson's situation is not so re-
stricted as that of the typical Catholic
achool. But the fact remains that ulti-

fest.

The so-called “dregs of society” are
on the fringes of the political spec-
trum, where, though they have valid
grounds for protest they are ignored
by society because they fail to fit the
mold of middle-class America.

Student body presidents and college
editors. while generally more aware
and liberal than most students. must
also bear the cross of respectability.
But such a burden may actually work
in their favor. for. as orthodox mem-
bers of coliege and university society,
their protests may finally register with
the Establishmeni—the broken prom-
ises and unjustified escalation aren't
sitting well, and youth is calling for
an explanation, ;

In 1847, Rep Abraham Lincoln,
speaking’ of the politically motivated
Mexican War, told Congress: “When
the wat began. it was my opinion that
ai? those who, because of knowing too
Hittle, or because of knowing too much,
could not conscientiously approve ine
conduct of the President. in the be-
ginning of i, remain silent on that
point. at least till the war should be
ended. ...1 think I should stilt adhere
to it, were It not that the President
and his friends will not allow it 10 ‘be
so... . Now I propose te show. that
the whole of this issue is -. the
shecrest deception...”

American college students have.
fike Lincoln, waited. and the time has
cpme to ask questions and to get an-
ywers.

mate responsibility lies with a board
of trustees, of whom more than three-
fourths report back to an ecclesiastical
body, ie., the Presbyterian Church,
US.

College trustees should ideally have
their interests and backgrounds, as
well as responsibility. directed toward
education and current developments in
that field. Davidson may be a church-
related schoo!, but it is first and fore-
most an educational institution.

Christian commitment and church
control are by no means synonymous,
To release the Board of Trustees from
their ties to the Southern Presbyterian
Church would be one step toward
making the school more Christian and
less Presbyterian: sectarianism is a
dying tradition today and the college
could do well to release itself from
such a restriction.

The only means by which such a
step could come about would be
through the trustees themselves vot-
ing a change which would essentially

involve their voting themselves out of .

a job. The experience of state legisla-
tures forced to reapportion themselves
shows the frustration involved when
dealing with vested interests. Such a
step could be painful for the trustees
but the welfare of the college must
necessarily supercede any purely per-
sonal interests,

Make ROTC Extracurricular

While contraversy at other campus-
€s rages over the place ROTC should.
ocaupy in ithe structure of the college
community. Davidson has seen littie or
no protest over the present setup De-
fenders always. point to the “gaod
deals” Davidson students get, particu-
larly the one semester per ycar pro-
vision, as apposed to the usual full
year requirement on most campuses.

The cuestion is aot one of the

“deals” that students enrolied in the
program get, but one of whether the
caurse should have regular academic
standing. While most opponertis of
ROTC have limited their goal to mak-
ing Basic ROTC voluntary, itself ad-
mittedly an attraetive goal, the ulti-
mate goal should be that of placing
the program in the realm of extracur-
ricular activities, without academic
credit.
_ THE DAVIDSONIAN reprinted in
January an article from The Christian
Science Monitor, sketching the argu-
ments against ROTC having academic
credit, arguments that ROTC officials
on this camous and ¢lsewhere have
made no effort to rebut, since there
ig no valid basis for the program's
having regular academic standing,

If the Army's camps indoctrination
center were placed on an extracurric-
ular basis, the only “deals” that would
be lost would be the academic credit
and the bonis of quality paints that
acvompany. In other words, the cadets
would still get their $40 per month
and they would stil! enroll for only
one semester per year.

The campus.wide reputation for
easy quality points in the ROTC pro-
gram has been an attractive aspect.

Possibly the depariment's new “get-
tough" policy will change that some-
what.

Or maybe one dav the student hody
will be more interested in academic
integrity than grade-poini-ratio.

Today's Brutality

Consider the spectacle: hundreds of
the cream of society's crop, bunched
around radios. wherever th are
found. seaking up vivid descriptions
of inhuman behavier—one individual,
who has trained strenuously for
months in preparation for these 45
minutes, with no ather immediate goal
than to physically debilitate his op-
ponent, while simultaneously taunting

him.

The detailed descriptions of blood
running fom one individual's eves,
human matter spilling on to the nar-
rator, and the debssement of the beat-
en fighter are enough to make the
staunchest wince.

But more significant and frighten-
ing than the prospect of boxers mak:
ing their living oy battering 4 fellow
human is the realization that the pug
ilist can do $0 only because others are
willing to pay to wate,

It would be trite though not too dle-
ficult, to draw an analogy to a dec-
adent Roman -civilizatton, plorying in
the “entertainment” furnished by gla-
diaters. If such are the values cuiti-
vated, or at least talerated, at a liberal
arts school, little prospect appears for
a refined society outside the academic
confines, where there [s nol even a
pretense of encouraging a comprehen-
ston of the finer things of life.

~ DAMN (T° W2
| Yost ror AO, PEVELE

HALE CHa

EELONG 70 TH;
US? WE

Marburg Corresponds
To U.S. Graduate School

The University of Marburg
is in a lot of ways like David-
son, for as far as German
universities go, Marburg is
small with only 8000 students.
Although most of the students
are older than we. ] don't feel
that the German system cre-
ates more ‘‘intellectuals’’ than
Davidson: besides I never did
feel cramped at Davidson. «

Also these people have to
struggle for grades, but maybe
just not so many—they have to
pass the course and have sev:
en ‘pass notes" at the end of
seven semesters or out they
go. Of course ihe pace might
not be 80 strained as in the
United States.

WELL. ROUNDED

But also when 1 think abaut
iu. I believe the persan that
yraduates from Davidsan ie +
more well rounded inditadiuat
than the gradunte praduced bv
the German system. We are
able to take a broader lonk mt
the entire situation. but. the
German narrows his lnteresss
earlier. and concentrates on
one sob‘ect sooner. and there
by clases the gate to a wider
knowledge.

It Is hard to belleve some
of the comments I have heard
a pre-med student here make:

he believes anything he rends: -

he seriously speaks of “the
American white man's conspir+
acy of wiping out the Mearoes
by mopking them fight in Viet-
nam." ‘

In ao Jeter to THE DAVID-
SONIAN vatHer this year,
Holmes Eleazer said that he
saw the German student as
mast ‘activist minded. 1
don't think American students
ire any less concerned nabaut
the politics at home than the
Germans sre.

PAPER SLIPS

Perhaps the Germans enjoy
handing out shps of paner call-
ing on students to send checks
for suppart of the Liberation
Front in Vietnam: such a
pamphiet was hnnded out by
the Socialistischer Doutscher
Studentbund. I would say that
the Socialist groups are the
most active. but In my apinian
do very Uttle.

The conservalives, lberiels
and all groups at Dnvidsan
Sponzor speakers. and that Is
about all they do here. 1 loak
on something Whe what Mar-
vin Sparrow and lis tutors ute
dvirg an more important than _
having speeches. But 1 ques
tien Holmes’ assertion that the
Germin student Is mor
aware; for the most part.
amin, they are much tke
Amuricans.,

REALISTIC

Tat ts take a rentistic look
at the whale problom of at-
tempting n camparison of the
educational system of David-
son College and that of Phil-
Tipps Universiint, Marburg.
Germany. What too many peo-
ple have trivd to do is to carn-
pare whot essentially is o

graduate school with a college.

We come to Europe to study
during our Junior Year. Why?
Becnuse the German student
who enters the University af-
ter the Gymnasium is essen-
tiaily at the same educational
level as a junior in an Amer-
ican college.

The Guvmnasium fs what may
he called a combinatian of an
American hkeh schoal and jun.
jor oullege. nad when the stu-
dent arrives at the University.
be has finished his required
math. physics, biology. chem-
istry, history. foreign lan:
wuages. etc. and knows in what
he wante lo specialize.

SPECIALIST

So he onters the University
having fiagzhed his Itheral arts
studies (here, it might be add
ed, with much umphasis on
science) and enters vessential-
ly a graduate school to study
medicine, law, philosophy. his-
tory, otc.

During our first semester is
the vast majority of cases we
have only taken part in the
lectures. not the various types
af seminars which ore the real
core of the German University
System, The Jectures for a
German student are the
“4telngs for cakes.” and not the
heart of the naatter.

Then when we look at the
seminnrs we find a “frev-out
system,” Wo you want ta onl
it that, but alsa, surpeisinaly
enough, grades,

The German law stugent. for
example, dors one research
Paper and then three written
interpretations. of the text in
eluas, On each of thea he re
velyes. a iorade svhich then de-
termines whether be receives
ft pussiny ytrade at the end of
the semester. As is evident,
gue anty passes or Enifs a

comers. but he dees receive

grades within.

PREPARED

Ts te American college stu+
dent in hie freshman vear ay
well prepured as a first semes-
ter stuiient at the Gucman
University? I maintain that he
is net. Does anyane really
think he is able ta do independ
ent work in history, for wx-
ample, after the usunl high
school preporation. Except in
unusunl cases, no.

As it Imks fram here, the
Amorican college system his

Quo Vadis?

By MASON STEPHENSON

Guest Columnist

been shaped by the necessity
of further preparing ‘pupils’
who have come from the aver-
age high school. But of course
with average high schools im-
proving, the quality and pre-
paredness of the ‘pupil’ in-
creases so as to require now
that the college must provide
the opportunities for a “stu-
dent." :

Bat from my own experience
at Davidson J feel that for the
most part we are still ‘‘pu-
pli,” althougls here are those
atnohy us who are “students.”
So the challenge for Davidson
fs to be able to offer that pro-
gram for students while yet

_ tetaining a strong program for

pupa and preparing both
groups for further education
on the level of the German
University System, i.e. the
American #raduale school.

ROLE DIFFERS

We should remember that
the role of the college (David-
son included) is different than
itat of a grad school. [t seems
ta me that Dovidson is now
moving in the direction of of
fering independent work (guid
ed study) for fts students.

In other words, Davidson is
taoving ta meet Its chailende.
but it must alwags remember
that there are both pupils and
students. and nat just one or
the other,

VERY DIFFERENT

The Uwe educational systems:
are very different and so the
rule of the callege cantiot he
sald to be that of the German
university. Tih fact the Amer:
Jenn cobuge stands in between
high school and grad school,
and its jab should be not anly
of providing r finn] education
for canwy, bist alsn of provid.
lng oon “in-between eduen.
Hon: finishing one's general
education and moving one in
preparation for «2 eantinuing
oaduestion on the grad school
level.

This Is tho role of the cal-
lege, Since It is nat m German
University why iry to conferm
It Into such wo system? In the
past Davidson has in my opin-
ion discovered its proper rote:
today once more we gro try-
ing to conform to the ever-
changing requirements: let vs
change, but always let as place
ourselves In tho proger role
of the Armvericon college.

Fools’ Names "2222"
And

Fools’ Faces

The Sins Of The Fathers

HIGHER EDUCATION and its role in the develop.
inent of the New South is a topic of considerable con-
cern to many people in the South and the United States;
but few of these people are the students who are cur-
rently enrolled in Southern universities and colleges
or who soon will be matriculating.

The overwhelming majority of undergraduate and
raduate students in these institutions simply do not
involve themselves in and seriously question the edu-
cational process through which they are being ground.
Why not?

BEFORE TRYING to solve this riddle of non-in-
volvement, perhaps it is necessary to ask if it is a val-
uable, worthwhile endeavor for students to critically
question the form and content of their educational
process. 1 think that most educators would certainly
maintain that the student should not accept, unques-
uoningly, what he is being taught: to question what.
one is being taught is part of a liberal education.

But there is a vast difference between questioning
what is being taught and questioning how it is bein
taught. And, 1 believe, most educators now in the Sout
do not want their sludents to question the how of edu-
cation, not only in the classroom, but how things are
done, run, on the campus at large. They shudder with
fear to think that what happened at Berkeley might
happen to them. The students at Berkeley were not
questioning the what of education, but, rather, the how,
how things were being done. | .

WHAT THE EDUCATORS fail to realize is that. 10
students, being taught to question the what of educa-
tion cannot be separated from questioning the how of
education. One process of questioning inevitably leads
to the other, In fact, it is only for purposes of analysis
that the how and the what of education can be sepa-
rated; for, properly conceived, education can and must
be questioning both the what and the how.

Now, if you grant, as most educators do, that stu-
dents must question the what of education then you
must grant that they should question the how of edu-
cation. It is, therefore. a worthwhile endeavor for stu-
dents to critically question the content and form of
their educational process.

BUT TO RETURN to the original question, why
are students in the South not involved in their educa-
tional process? Why are these students so traditionally
apathetic? Obviously, there are many causes; there is no
one reason. At Davidson, for instance, one of these rea-
sons is the regionalism and homogeneity of the students
and faculty. ‘We have our quotas of Jews, Northerners,
Westerners, Negroes, Easterners, and Catholics to fill.

We are not challenged by eultures which are not
our own, There is a great deal of difference between
reading about these people and being brought into daily
contact with them. As Duke's Dr. Barnes Woodhall has
said: “College is a great deal student-to-student, and
if students are going to educate each other then you’ve
got to get a cross-section of students.”

BUT | BELIEVE that the principal cause of this
lack of student involvement is that we in the South do
not allow or encourage students to critically question.
They do not question the what and the how of educa-
tion. If a student persists in questioning the what of
education, he is “put down" by both his classmates and
his professors. Why should he keep butting his head
against the wall? He quits questioning and does not get
involved; he feeds back the required information to the
professor. .

And Southern educators know that if a student
continues to question the what of education that he will
begin to question the how of education, and they are
afraid of his doing that. They do not want “a Berkeley”
at their school. This is why students at Davidson will
not be put on committees under the new Faculty Con-
stitution—the faculty does not want its how to be ques-
1oOnNed.

IT IS TERRIBLY HARD to break down traditional
educational patiarns, and the pattern of non-question-
ing and hon-involvement has been ingrained in the
South for a long time. Both students and faculty have
come to accept it as a fact of educational life. One
simply does not question what is. And this pattern will
not be changed until students are taught to question
the what and how of education.

And, I believe, this is the kev to the problem: Stu-
dents must be taught to question and to persist in ques-
tioning. Thus I lay a majority of the blame for the tra-
ditional apathy and lack of involvement on Southern
campuses at ihe feet of those who educate. They have
hot aught their charges to question and to become
nvolved.

THERE IS an over riding and pervasive aura of
authority on Southern campuses which stifles enthusl-
asm and involyement. The student is taught that he
cannot or should not challenge authority and orthodoxy
and he does not: he keeps his cool.

How can the situation be improved? 1 think that
there inust be a change in this attitude of authority:
students will have to be taught new ways of thinking
and doing, of questioning the what and how of educa-
tion. Who must effect this change?

NO ONE CAN do il Dut Lhe educators themselves.
For if education rests upon the premise that the elders
have samething to transmit, then it ls they who must
transmit this vhange. If they do not, the guilt is upon
their hands, “For the sins of the fathers shall be visited
upon the sons.”
