Che Dauvidsontan

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the schvol year, except
during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson,

N. C.

SAM BOYTE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

BILL WATSON
Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1967

Dollars And Sense

Last spring at Antioch College a
closed meeting of the trustees of that
institution was disrupted when 50
students marched in and refused to
leave. This year the trustees there con-
sulted student opinion before and dur-
ing their meeting.

Last spring at a meeting of the Da-
vidson College Coordinating Commit-
tee. a group representing faculty, ad-
ministration. and students. Student
Body President Tom Earnhardt sug-
gested to President D. Grier Martin
fhat the trustees consider the idea of
consulting student. body opinion be-
fore they made their decisions.

President Martin said that he
thought the trustees would be in favor
of the idea and that he would see
about implementing some _ arrange-
ment whereby students would be able
to present their ideas.

So yesterday and today, without all
the bother of a major protest. David-
son students have managed to exer-
cise a good bit of influence over trus-
tee decisions.

And one trustee jokingly remarked
at lunch today that for the first time
since he had been a trustee he had
gotten to meet real, live, flesh-and-
blood students.

Looking back over the results of
this student influence, it seems that
it caused no startling revolutions. It
helped dissuade the Committee on Re-
ligious Life and the Church Commun-
ity from reimplementing required
worship attendance. Also it helped the
trustees to decide to implement the
fraternity presidents’ extended rush
plan.

Student influence failed to persuade
the trustees to place the new library
across Concord Road from the pres-
ent site, a position that was heavily
favored in a student body poll last
spring. However, if this is a loss for
student influence, we cannot see it
aS a major one. The trustees seem
overly-concerned with the danger to
students in crossing Concord Road to
go to the library, but the trustees’
Site will also be convenient to students
and a building there can be designed
so as ‘to be quite attractive.

The big loss of course came in the
trustees’ decision to delay implemen-
tation of the Blue Sky Committee's
proposals. Money is always a sore
point for the small, private, liberal
arts college. A noted educator has
been quoted in the national press as
saying that a large number of these
institutions would soon be passing

away because of their inability to sup-
port themselves.

Davidson has been fortunate in
having President Martin direct its
fund-raising efforts. We can only ex
press gratitude for the tremendous
job he has done in raising capital to
support the school in the cut-throat
field of seeking foundation grants. His
job in successfully meeting the Ford
Challenge Grant requirements de-
serves the highest praise. ;

But the delav in implementing the
Blue Sky proposals makes us wonder
whether it is money or creative edu-
cation that will provide the best way
for the small. liberal arts college to
survive. Actually, if the aim of such a
college as Davidson is only to survive,
it is hard to see how it will be able
to do so in the world of modern edu
cation.

In a world where the large state
university is nipping at the heels of
the popularity of the small private
college, it pays to be leading the pack
instead of tagging along behind. The
results of a college self-study two
years ago showed that Davidson need-
ed an excellent library to retain its
present reputation and worth. Sup-
porters of the college led by President
Martin rose to meet this challenge,
and we feel certain that the library
will eventually be built.

Bill Bondurant, . assistant to the
president, estimated today that a $5
million increase in Davidson’s endow-
ment would be required to-support the
new ideas of the Blue Sky Committee.
In the face of this large financial com-
mitment the trustees decided to wait
until they could be more certain of
the necessary funds to get to work on
implementing Davidson first major
curriculum revision in 40 years. It
is to their credit that they agreed to a
called meeting to consider the Blue
Sky ideas as soon as the college felt
it could support them financially. This
would seem to indicate some measure
of agreement with the ideas.

The thing that is not to their credit
and which represents the loss to the
faculty and to the rest of the college
is that they were not able to come up
with some plan that would get the
college started into the needed curri-
culum revision. While we wait for the
funds to support the entire program
we hope that we do not find the col-
lege slipping down closer to the jaws
of those state universities that threat-
en to take over the field of college
education.

Escape To Boredom

Davidson weekends are usually bill-
ed as an escape from the familiar mo-
notony of study.

The freshman emerges like a
groundhog to view his date realizing
that, unlike the groundhog, he cannot
burrow back into the earth if his date
appears to be a more literal repre-
sentation of that species.

Sophomores are resolved to have
fun this year at big weekends regard-
less of the lambasting they took in the
blind date vortex which, incidentally,
ends with the confident junior’s
knowledgeable choice of a date before
the rush began. And the senior enters
the big weekend also confident and
with expectation but often a little
bored.

The reason for this boredom is ob-
vious: of all the institutions at David-
son, big-weekending is probably the
most unoriginal, repetitious method of
entertainment known to students. The
end result on Sunday afternoons is the
same for the dateless as the dated.

One is shot down by his date and
feels defeated, empty, and cheated.
The other does the job himself kami-
kaze-style, homing in from a weekend
of over-rated concerts, typical frater-
nity parties, too much liquor and too
little sleep to his wipe-out on Sunday
afternoon. There he tries desperately
to rid himself of his date before his so-
cial image ends not with a bang (hav-
ing shot the proverbial wad earlier)
but with a decidedly uncool whimper.

Blind dates make for many a
wretched weekend, but we think too
often four years of typical weekend-
ing make for a pretty tiresome time
bv the senior year also. Too often con-
certs featuring a group that may ap-
peal to only a portion of the student
bodv on the basis of one or two re-
cordings become the focal point of the
weekend.

But what we really oppose is the
s‘mple monotony of concerts for big
weekends. Fortunately, Homecoming
offered tonight a stay of execution or
an escape from the “escape” in the
person of Miss Russell, who though
she may not be psychotic, psychedelic,
or soulful, may just add some variety.

Still we believe a Davidson week-

end could be more original and just
plain more interesting if we could of-
fer a more varied program of “big
weekends.” Weekend symposia offer
a chance to get to know and perhaps
even talk to your date about some
topic of interest slightly above what
brand you and she smoke, drink, and
associate with.

But we realize that all of this cyni-
cism is probably wasted. We fear that
the idea of varying from typical big-
weekending will continue to take the
back seat in the Davidson gentleman’s
mind to all that good old Joe College
hell-raising that so many of us con-
clude with a sigh of, ‘ ‘Well now that’s
done: and I'm glad it’s over.’ ”

Scorekeeping

_ In case anyone is keeping score each
time the old dead mule of a dry cam-
pus is kicked we would like to record
one more blow.

The National Council of Churches
has endorsed a government-sponsored
Study which recommends that the con-
sumption of alcoholic beverages be de-
nied the glory of prohibition by bring-
ing it out into the open.

The report contrasts the low num-
ber of drinking problems among the
American Jews, 90 per cent of whom
drink, with the higher incidence
among Anglo-Saxon and Irish-Ameri-
can groups. According to an account
in The Charlotte Observer, the atti-
tudes among the latter groups “. . .
often include complete prohibition of
alcohol and resulting guilt associated
with drinking, as well as placing drink-
ing occasions in a glamorous light or
in the ‘forbidden fruit’ category, and
drinking capacity as a test of mascu-
linity:” The report notes that these
groups have the highest incidence of
alcohol problems in America.

We wonder how much good the
Presbyterian teetotalers of the college
are doing by giving to drinking the
luster of rulebreaking. We also won-
der how much time will pass before
the formaldehyde of unobserved rules
drains out to let the old dry campus
mule rot away to its deserving end.

“ ,. Our New Discovery.”

aa

THE STUDENT SPHERE

Council Program’s Aim

fs To ‘Inform, Inspire’

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The Student Counci! may
not send people on .trips
which take them around the
world, but it is certainly giv-
ing interested students a
chance to travel and serve
the school at the same time.

Among these Council-fi-
nanced programs which in-
volve travel are the Student
Recruiting Program, the Stu-
dent Exchange Program and
the Educational Planning
Program.

In my last column I focus-
ed on the Student Exchange
Program. This week I would
like to discuss the merits of
the Educational Planning
Program, conceived more
than a year ago by the cur-
rent president of the student
body. Tom Earnhardt.

“In talking with the guid-
ance counselors at severat
high schools,” said . Earn.
hardt “Il realized there are
several limitations imposed
on thei¢e position which make
their jobs exceedingly diffi-
cult. The large number of
students they are respons bie
for and the tim'd'tv of stu.
dents to talk with ther li-it
the amount of guidance stu-
dents receive in planning
their future.”

The Educational Planning

counselors by helping high
school students make the
transition from high school
to college or whatever they
may enter after graduation.
t Davidson Students visit
high schools in groups of two
cy three and present an as-
sembly program of 20 to 30
minutes in which they dis-
cuss the influx of new ideas
and new living conditions
with which the sheltered high
school student will be con-
fronted upon graduation.
Each program is geared
to the level of the student
body in the school visited. If
78 per cent of the student
body usually goes on to col-
lege, Davidson students dis-
cuss particularly the practi-
cal aspects of visiting a col-
lege. how to choose a college
and ‘what to expect as a
freshman.
if only 40 per cent usually
‘attend college, they do not
dwell on college opportuni-
fies but discuss the impor.
tance of decision-making and
emotional maturity in the pe-
riod following high school.
“The program is. partly in.
formation and partly inspira-
tion.’ said Earnhardt. ‘It or-
~iysted as a service proiect,
but there are certain obvious
fringe benefits whch result.
“Because the program is
carefully prepared and usu-

the students very much, es-
pecially since it is unique to
Davidson College. If thus. fur-
nishes an indirect form of

student recruiting and a good.

means of public relations.”

The Admissions Office must
agree wholeheartedly because
they have agreed to finance
the program jointly this year
with the Student Council. The
budget for the program is al-
most twice its $750 budget of
last year.

The program began in Oc-
tober last year when students
began to visit small high
schools in North Carolina.
Soon they were invited to vis-
it the larger high schools in
Greensboro and Winston-Sa-
lem, and in the spring stu-
dents made trips to Atlanta,
Richmond, northern Florida
and the Nashville-Memphis
area.

Bo Perry and Mike Carroli
will head the program this
year. According to Perry, 10
or 12 students are already
lined up to make trips, al-
though letters have not yet
been sent to high schools.

Letters are initially sent
asking the schools if they
wish to participate in the pro-
gram. The primary qualifi-
cation of a Davidson student
is superior ability as a speak-
er, although each student is

carefully trained concerning

~” Looking
4 Gackward
Zeal

By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

v
Inordinate Proportion nati ;
my numerous perverse ha vits can be
counted the practice of occasionally reading the Da-
vidson College Reference Catalogue. .

While | grant that the structure 15 sometimes
confused, and the style often pedantic, I nevertheless
submit that the publication offers an abundant field
for the study of that particular form of humor known
as irony. I assume that the Davidson catalogue differs
slightly if at all from the efforts of other schools in
this profusion of irony, irony being defined as a pack
f NF suppose that to term the catalogue description
of Davidson College a pack of lies is to confuse the
outright lie with the half-truth, the distorted view,
and the mistake from ignorance. Therefore, it may
perhaps be unfair to compare, for example, Davidson's
statement of Christian commitment with the existence
of a college-sponsored military establishment, although
such a comparison does make a good cartoon.

Attempting to be fair, 1 seldom bother with com-
menting on the more self-congratulatory passages, in-
stead concentrating on less subjective contents such
as the listing of faculty members by department. This
is done in the belief that indeed, truth is often stranger
than fiction.

One of the curiosities I have come upon by so
reading the catalogue is the relative size of the depart-
ments. One would expect the Bible Department to be
fairly large, in view of the twelve-hour requirement
and in view of the fact that Davidson’s “binds” to the
Presbyterian Church “have remained close and strong.”
Such an expectation is not doomed to disappointment: -
the department has six members.

One would also expect the history and English
departments to be of more than average size, consider-
ing the number of students majoring in each. And so
they are, each larger than the mean, with eight and
eleven members respectively.

However, I personally was unprepared for the
discovery that the truly significant, important depart-
ments lie outside what is generally considered the
realm of academic endeavor. I refer to the depart-
ments of military science and physical education.

The military science department boasts six mem-
bers, making it the equal of the Bible department, and
larger than any of the language departments except
English. Further, one must keep in mind the fact that
faculty members on sabbatical from their departments
are still included as members, while the MiliSci Saigon
sabbaticals necessitate severance of ties with the col-

lege.

6 But the size of Davidson's military, establishment
pales before the magnitude of the physical education
complex, which boasts no fewer than thirteen mem-
bers. This makes the department larger than any of
the other departments at Davidson.

Consider further. Each of these departments
has enviable teaching and office space. No other de-
partment at Davidson has a building and grounds to
itself as does the physical education department and no
other department has a floor and a half to itself as
does the military science department.

I contend that not enough use is being made of
this situation. The physical education department is the
largest in the college; the military science department
is of more than average size. The facilities for these
departments’ activities are ample. Therefore, it be-
hooves the college to immediately establish a major in
each of these fields, to expand the course offerings in
each of the departments, and to plan for the develop-
ment of graduate programs in physical education and

Program is designed to com-
plement the work of guidance

REASON MUST PREVAIL

ally enjoyable, it impresses

the purpose of the program.

military science in the not-too-distant future.

Free Discussion Vital During War

ED. NOTE: This is the second of a
series of four articles excerpted by
permission of Random House Inc.
from The Arrogance of Power, by
U.S. Senator J. William Fulbright,
D.Ark., Copyright, 1966, by the author.

Freedom of thought and discussion
gives a democracy two concrete ad-
vantages over a dictatorship in the
making of foreign policy: it diminishes
the danger of an irretrievable mistake
and it introduces ‘ideas and opportuni-
ties that otherwise would not come to
light.

The correction of errors in a nation’s
foreign policy is greatly assisted by
the timely raising of voices of criti-
cism within the nation. When the
British launched their disastrous at-
tack on Egypt. the Labor Party
raised a collective voice of indigna-
tion while the military operation was
still under way: refusing to be de-
terred by calls for national unity in a
crisis, Labor began the long, painful
process of recovering Great Britain's
good name at the very moment when
the damage was still being done.

Similarly, the French intellectuals
who protested France’s colonial
wars in Indochina and Algeria not
only upheld the vatues of French
democracy but helped pave the way
for the enlightened policies of the

Fitth Republic which heave made

France the most respected Western

nation in the underdeveloped world.

It has been in the hope of performing
a similar service for America on .a
very modest scale that I criticized
American intervention in the Domini-
can Republic and that some of my
colleagues and I have raised questions
about the wisdom of American mili-
tary involvement in Vietnam.

The second great advantage of free
discussion to democratic policy-mak-
ers fs its bringing to light of new ideas
and the supplanting of old myths with

new realities.

We Americans are much in need of
this benefit because we are severely,
if not uniquely, afflicted with a habit
of policy-making by analogy: North
Vietnam's involvement in South Viet-
nam, for example, is equated with
Hitler's invasion of Poland and a
parley with the Viet Cong would rep.
resent ‘‘another Munich.”

The treatment of slight and superfi-
cial resemblances as if they were
full-blooded analogies—as instances,
as it were, of history “repeating it-
self''—is a substitute for thinking and
a misuse of history.

There is a kind of voodoo about
American foreign policy. Certain
drums have to be beaten regularly to
ward off evil spirits—for example,
the maledictions regularly uttered
against North Vietnamese aggression,
the “wild men’’ in Peking, commun-
ism in general, and President de
Gaulle.

Free and open criticism has oe
third, more abstract but no less
importent function in a democracy:
it is therapy and catharsis for those
who are troubled by something their
country is doing; it helps to reassert
traditional values, to clear the air
when it is full of tension and mis-
trust.

There are times in public life as in
private life when one must protest, not
Solely or even primarily because one’s
protest will be politic or materially
productive, but because one’s sense
of decency is offended, because one is
fed up with pelitical craft and public
images, or simply because something
goes against the grain. The catharsis
thus provided may indeed be the most.
valuable of freedom's uses.

While not unprecedented, protests
against a war in the middle of the
war are a rare experience for Ameri-
cans. I see it as a mark of strength

and maturity that an articulate minori-
ty have raised their voices agains’
the Vietnamese war and that the
majority of Americans are enduring
this dissent, not without anxiety. to be
sure, but for the moment at least
with better grace and understanding
than would have been the case in any
other war of the twentieth century.

It is by no means certain that the
relatively healthy atmosphere in which
the debate has been taking place will
not give way to a new era of Mc-
Carthyism. Critics of the Vietnamese
war are being accused of a lack of
patriotism, and these accusations are
coming not only from irresponsible
columnists but. with increasing. fre.
quency, from the highest levels of
government. This situation is likely
to become worse.

In Mark Twain's novel The Myster
ious Stranger a benevolent and clair.
voyant Satan said the following about
war and its corrosive effects on a
society:

“There has never been a just one,
never an honorable one—on the part
of the instigator of the war. I can ser
a million years ahead. and this rule
will never change in so many as half
a dozen instances

"The loud little handful—as usual
—will shout for the war. The pulpit
witt—warily and cautiously object
—st first; the great, big, dull bulk
of the nation will rub ts sleepy
eyes and try fo make out why there
should be a war, and will SBy, ear.
nestly and indignantly, ‘9 it unjust
and dishonorable, and there is no

necessity for i."

“Then the handful sill stunr lender
A few fair men on the ner ae ype
argue and reayvm syain' > aay
with speech and yor ar) a $yps wi,"
have a hearing ard t+ applauten inf
it will not last Jung thre rere oil
outshout them, ar) PIEwmTAly the arth

war audiences will thin out and lose
popularity.

“Before long you will see this cur-
ious thing: the speakers stoned from
the platform, and free speech strang-
led by hordes of furious men who in
their secret hearts are still at one
with those stoned speakers—as earlier
—but do not dare to say so.

“And now the whole nation—pulpit
and all—will take up the wer-cry,
and shout Itself hoarse, and mob
any honest man who ventures to
open his mouth; and presently such
mouths will cease to open.

“Next the statesmen will invent
cheap lies. putting the blame upon
the nation that is attacked, and every
man will be glad of those conscience-
soothing falsities, and will diligently
study them, and refuse to examine
any refutations of them; and thus he
will by and by convince himself that
the war is just, and will thank God
for the better sleep he enjoys after
this Process of grotesque self-decep-
jon °°

Past experience provides little
basis for confidence that reason can
prevail in an atmosphere of mounting
war fever. We must try nonetheless
to bring reason and restraint into the
emotionally charged atmosphere in
which the. Viethamese war is now be-
ing discussed.

Instead of trading epithets about
ho is and is not giving ‘aid and
comfort" to the enemy, we would do
aell to focus calmiy and deliberately
un. the issue itself, recognizing that all
of ux make mistakes and that mis-
takes can be corrected only if they are
achnowledged and discussed, and rec-
egnizing further that war is not its
own justification, that it can and
must be discussed unless we are pre-
pared to sacrifice our traditional
democratic processes to a false image
ui national unanimity.
