Che Davidsontan

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the schuol year. except
during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson.

N.C.

SAM BOYTE
Editor-tn Chief

PAGE TWO

BILL WATSON
Business Manager
EEE

FRIDAY, MAY 12. 1967

The Circle Of Diversity

Davidson seems to be caught in one
of those circles that often vlague any-
one trying to progress. This time that
circle has appeared in admissions poli-
cies.

There are some students here who
do not come from the traditional
southeastern mold for ‘Davidson Gen-
tlemen.’ In fact. the number seems to
increase each year as the college’s aca-
demic reputation becomes more wide-
ly known, with the result that high
school guidance counselors will give
the school a good word if a student
requests information. Supposedly stu-
dents of high caliber are asking such
questions on occasion. Otherwise the
effort éxpended by the Admissions Of-

. fice in sending publicity to all male
National Merit and National Achieve-
ment scholars is entirely wasted. Per-
haps a few such award winners do
note the Davidson folder and form let-
ter among the large amount of such
propaganda that they receive. It is also
true that a few freshmen each vear
from outside the South will point to
sports publicity as their first contact
with the school. (Far be it from us to
wonder about the academic reputation
of a school more widely known among.
sports page readers than Merit Schol-
ars.)

The stated policy of the Admissions
Office is to seek the best students for
the college. regardless of their back-
ground. The reasoning behind this pol-
icy would seem to be that the school
will be strong as long as it has good
students. even if most of them do
share an identical southern white An-
glo-Saxon Protestant culture.

The circular process becomes evi-
dent when students who do come to
Davidson from different backgrounds
find life here to be particularly un-
pleasant for them. While this is not as
apparent in cases where geographv is
the only source of difference. it is
obvious when a student's racial herit-
age differs from the Davidson norm.
It is probable that the make-up of the

A Cleansing Role

Strong endorsement of student par-
ticipation in the southern labor union
movement was given in an editorial
-from the Daily Tar Heel reprinted in
this column last week. Basically two
reasons existed for that reprint:. It
showed that there are more than just
the dozen Davidson activists concern-
ed with the issue. and the UNC-CH ed-
itor's position seemed to be soundly
taken.

While we could probably wind up
disputing the devotion to labor unions
implied by that editorial writer. we
have to agree with his contention that
a strong union movement is needed to

bring the South into the twentieth cen-
tury. It is hard to picture the leaders
of the southern textile industry as a
bunch of diabolical ogres who sit
around plotting about the ways that
they can mishandle unskilled labor. It
is quite probable that these same men
consider themselves to be virtuous
charitable people being cruelly victim-
ized by trouble-makers.

It is this self-image enjoyed by mill
operators that points up the need for
students to be involved in the union
movement. The obvjous corruption
and abuse of members which has char-
acterized much of the union establish-
ment casts doubt on the contention
that the end of student union partici-
pation should be complete unioniza-
tion of southern workers. Instead, the

student body is always going to be
such that a Negro will find himself in
the minority. While the local standard
of two Negroes per class hardly re-
flects the overall American racial dis
tribution, blacks still are obviously a
minority group within the total popu-
lation. The difficulties encountered by
a minority group when it is practically
the only real minority group within a
society are typified by the fact that
neither one of the two original Negro
members of the Class of ‘69 will be re-
turning to Davidson next year. While
personal factors are undoubtedly of.
great importance in each case, it is
hard to believe the abnormal role of
the Negro at Davidson had no effect.

This is. not an editofial stand about
the rights of Negroes. Instead it is an
appeal to the Admissions Office to ac-
tively seek diversity of background in
each class. The problems of any one
different element in. the student body
will not be eliminated by doing away
with that element. The solution in-
stead lies in creating a societv which
reflects the diversity of a broader
spectrum than that which is found in
the southern WASP. It is of prime
importance to realize that diversity is
more than just a way to improve the
existence of a few people. The reason
that the Admissions Office should not
just be content with any good student
who cannot contribute to a broader
campus society is that the college ac-
tually needs such diversity in order
to become an active campus intellec-
tually.

One argument used in the athletic
report presented to the faculty this
week in support of continued subsi-
dization claimed that professional ath-
letes prevent the stereotyping of the
college into an academic mold. It hard-
lv seems that there is anv “danger” of
Davidson becoming too intellectual at
the moment. On the other hand. it is
interesting to note that even those
trustees in their own twisted way seem
to realize the virtue of diversity more
than does the Admissions Office.

importance of the current labor un-
rest is that it demonstrates to textile
executives that their treatment of
southern labor has not been as virtu-
ous as they would like to believe. The
eventual solution to the problem will
necessarily come around the confer-
ence table. but the past history of

southern management labor relations.

indicates that something more than
correspondence and local discussions
will be necessary to convince manage
ment of the intensity and rightness of
many lJabor.claims.

The student role in this issue is of
very great importance. The usual valid
warnings to students to handle them-
selves in a mature manner must still
be givén. If word-of-mouth informa-
tion is to be believed. one of the stu-
dents arrested in Greensboro last
week was nabbed. not for preaching
idealism. but for screaming obsceni-
ties at the arresting deputy. Such an
approach is more characteristic of in-
toxicated pre-Spring Frolics immatur-
ity than of responsible concern. In
fact it tends to negate the unique im-
portance of student ‘participation in
the union's protest. The somewhat de-
tached student viewpoint combined
with the natural idealism of college
people may be the factors which could
prevent the abuse of the labor move-
ment which has occurred in other
parts of the country.

Public Relations Needed

One of the aims in initiating the
“One Last Shot” column on this page
was to demonstrate the lack of mean-
ingful communication which comes
from the administration of the college
to the average student. The sincerity
of the people who have been asked to
write these columns is respected by
THE DAVIDSONIAN. Therefore, some
of the less than just charges which
have been made confirm this belief in
the lack of communication.

To a certain large degree, members
of the administration are willing to
talk over their work and their aims
with students who are concerned
enough to find out what is going on in
that part of the college. The hang-up
comes, however, in the fact that much
of ihe popular opinion among the stu-
dent body is based upon appearance
instead of fact. Consequently, incor-
rect impressions tend to be self-per-
petuating until they are shown to be

false by THE DAVIDSONIAN or by
an active concern within the adminis-
tration to correct them.

The latter means seems to be large-
ly without use, and it tends to hinder
the performance of the former. The
administration does respect the value
of much of the student leadership, but
it seems to be untrusting of the con-
tributions that could be made by the
student without an office if he has a
true picture of a situation. Therefore,
instead of seeking to inform that stu-
dent, the administration largely seeks
to avoid controversy on an issue or
project until the administration posi-
tion is already determined.

Valid complaints are made on oc-
casion about some sense of apathy
among the mass of students. It would
seem that with regard to some issues
at least this apathy is encouraged by
tather secretive policies on the part
of the administration.

Library Site - A Dilemma

é

4

MT ryel ny rye
! fity i f

ey Ce Dg aia
mn I 4

— BUT THEN, WHERE COULD ¥oUL FINd
A PLACE WITH NWOANTS, Avy WAY —

‘Fly-Trap’ Library Needs
More Art, Science Books

It has been suggested that
there are many conditions on
the Davjdson campus which
could stand a little improving. —
Among those which chiefly
concern those of us who are
interested in the arts, and
which also vitally concerns ev
ery other student is the lack
of depth in the library.

There are relatively few
books on certain aspects of
music, art, and a definite lack
in fiction. But as well, there
are lacking many volumes in
the social, and applied sci-
ences and in philosophy. Al-
so. for researchers, there is
practically no depth in back
issues of periodicals and news-
papers.

if the administration is
for real, and Davidson is
indeed entering into a “dec-
ade of decision’ in more re-
spects than alumni deciding
how large of a check to give
us, an expanded tibrary is
needed to foster creative
work in ail fields of endeav-
or, which is essential if we
are going fo actually try to
compete with the “‘better’’

| ONE LAST SHOT —
‘For Negroes, Davidson

institutions.

Trying not to let this column
deteriorate into my private
gripe-sheet. I would like to put
forth a suggestion for some
direct action that could be
taken by the students in help-
ing to stimulate a small step
in the direction of making Da-
vidson a better academic com-
munity.

What I would like to sug-
gest is. that every student
either buy a book for the li-
brary that he considers worth-
while and which is missing
from it. or that he © donate
some book in his possession

also absent in that fly trap.

Since the purchasing of a
hardback book might put a
strain on the finances of some
student perhaps either the Un-
ion or the Library could be-
gin a paperback exchange.
Somehow it impresses me as
being almost criminal when
the janitors in their morning
cursory sweepings manage to
eliminate some discarded
tome into their black bags of
trash.

Perhaps if the students
show concern, somewhere
the purse strings will be
opened.

-Termed Both Bad, Good |

ED. NOTE: “One

Shot” is written by s '97""
who are not re'u-ning to D>.
vidson next year in ode- to
allow them to exptess the:
opinions about the cpl'e7e.

By LEON PERRY

What do I think of Davidson?
Good question! There ‘is no
precise answer. no totall
truthful answer. and to be ex-
pedient, no simple answer.
Davidson College is complex.
so ‘am I. In answering this
question you as reader and I
as author must ‘realize that I
cannot answer just as a Da-
vidson College student. but I
must answer aS a Black Da-
vidson College student. Why?
Another question just as com-
plex as the first. I'll just say
that aS a Token Black I can-
not answer objectively because
of that fact.

Davidson has been good for
and to me in both positive and
negative ways. If has also been
quite awful. As t leave Da-
vidson, what can I say good
about it?

Well. positively. Davidson
College has almost totally fi-
nanced my first two years of
college: it has given me cer-
tain opportunities that I cer.
tainly would not have been
given had I gone to a Black
school or to no school at all:
it has given me the opportun-
ity to be a part of an institu-
tion which, for that reason. in
later years will no doubt
thrust me into the higher
echelon of ‘‘society.”” and with
that. economic security. It has
given me the opportunity to
meet and intimately acquaint
myself with the White man.

In the negative vein: David.
son College has also done good
things for and to me. It has
made me acutely aware (some
of my friends say paranoid) of
my blackness; it has made me
aware that I am first of all an
individual who needs an open
mind and mouth: it has also
molded me into a fervent
champion of ‘Black Power.”

Davidson Colfege has also

been bad for and to me. It
has shown me that racism Is
cextty not I'mited to “Red
Nec's” and “Klansmen’’ but
fo suopotedly enlightened in-
tellectuals as well. If has
molded me into an introverted,
irresponsible questioner who
trusts no one, which ft think is
bad.

Well. what then do I think of
Davidson College? I think that.
although a fine schoo] aca-
demically. it is guilty, as are
other colleges throughout the
nation. of gross negligence of
human minds and feelings. It
is a purveyor of establish-
ment thinking. It is guilty of
the wholesale moral slaugh-
ter of a section of this town
(the Black community). It is
ghilty of closed-mindedness.
autocratic views, and misuse
of power. It is guilty of an in-
tense preoccupation with pub-
lic relations and the good old
Davidson College image. thus
seemingly displacing the stu-
dent as the most important
part of the school.

As a Black student at Da-
vidson, I can say all these
things are true. Look at the
student body here: how many
students are willing to speak
out on controversial issues for
fear of reprisals by the school?

Look at the Black commun.
ity across the tracks: how
many of you, as Davidson stu-
dents. have actively partici-

Letters
% To The Editor

THE DAVIDSONIAN
* welcomes letters from any
reader, either in support
of or differing from ifs pol-
Icies. Letters should be
type-written, double spac-
ed, and should not exceed
250 words.
tn order to be printed in
the following issue, letters
should be received not
tated than 4 p.m. Tuesday.
All letters mus? be signed.

- baseball

pated in some act to help
these people? True, you go
down and paint the churches
and clean. off the little league
field (incidentally.
one which was .built because
Black kids are not allowed to
play on the White baseball
field).

But have you asked your-
self why, when an organiza-
tion on the Davidson College
campus attempts to recruit
and encourage Black Peo-
ple to seek positions on the
town governing agencies, it
is stymied, not because of
educational deficiencles or
the like, but because of fear
of reprisals by the Davidson
College community?

In summary. Davidson Col. .

lege has been a booster in
helping me mature morally
and mentally. and although a
fine-even outstanding-academ-
ic school. as an institution it
has failed miserably and piti-
fully in the areas in basic hu-
man relations which concern
me most —and they should
you. being humans and indi-
viduals.

We, as students, are not
machines and we should not
be coerced by this institu-
tion into becoming what we
as individuals do not want
to become. Davidson College
is guilty of this.

The general concensus
seems to be that the man who
graduates from Davidson Col-
lege should be this or that,
some stereotyped fool with va-
riations, and if the student
does not want to be this. if he
does not like it. he should get
out, to quote a member of the
Davidson College administra-
tion, or the student should not
have entered the school in the
first place.

Thus I leave Davidson Col-
lege with mixed feelings and
emotions, on the one hand a
hatred and pity for this place,
on the other admiration and
gratitude, and on the whole
still the unanswered question:
What do I think of Davidson
College?

By EDWARD DWELLS
Aseoclate Editor

Fools’ Nam
And

Truth Or Consequences

This past week I received a letter in response to
my column of April 28, 1967 (“Will The Future Be Like
The Past?”) from the father of a Davidson College
senior. In the letter, the father asked three very specific
questions to which he would like to have a response:

“What are the youth in colleges rebelling about,
as opposed to the Civil Rights movement?

“Don't you feel that this same group has some

responsibilities? ’ ;

“Don’t you feel that, instead of continuously pro-
testing, without answers, they should have more con-
sideration for those with whom they associated in
school and at home?” . ;

It was very kind of this father to write, and I ap-

‘preciate his taking the time to do so. His questions are
sincere and are those of a concerned individual at-
tempting to come to grips with the world about him.
1 should like to answer them. And I wish I were able
to answer them in a way that would soothe this man’s
worries, for 1 think these are the type of questions
which most parents have of today’s youth. But I am
unable to give a soothing answer to any of them, nor
am I able to give a single response. There are various
answers, and they'raise many more questions. I-am told
that the point at which one stops asking questions is
when one has found the “truth” and‘is satisfied. But I
am rarely satisfied, and I do not think that today’s youth
will stop questioning the status quo soon.

Let me attempt some response to these questions:
I understand the first question to be asking how the
rebellion of college students differs from the Civil
Rights movement. Well, they are both alike and dif-
ferent. They are alike in that college students frequent-
ly participate in furthering the cause of Civil Rights:
Both groups reject and rebel against the institution of
segregation and the degradation of one human being
by another because of race. They are also basically
alike in that both groups are attempting to create a
society which is more humane than our present one
and to create institutions which are both workable and
applicable to an ever changing technilogical society.
Both groups do not seem to think that the existing
structures are adequate to the task. Obviously the two
groups are different in that the Civil Rights movement
is concerned with individuals who also happen to be
Negro while the college students concern primarily has
grown out of their situation as individuals who are sub-
jected to the in loco parentis principle of most insti-
tutions of higher learning. Since the college students
represent a wider variety of interests, they may be
active in more areas; but both groups question many
other outworn institutions because of the particular
one they find themselves subject to.

In response to the second question, J] can only
say—yes, college students have many responsibilities.
And their principal responsibility is to be involved in
and concerned with the society in which they live.
They should not. merely accept the status quo without
being sure that it is the best that can be achieved. They
should not attempt to change or destroy existing insti-
tutions merely for the sake of change but rather be-
cause the institutions do not work and can be improved
or replaced by more workable ones. They must com-
mit themselves to improving their society, for ultimate-
ly they will be held responsible by their children and
their children's children.

I do not‘really understand the third question, but
let me assume that it can be restated as follows: Since
the college students don’t seem to be getting an-
swers to their protesting questions, shouldn't they shut
up and quit bothering their fellow students and their
parents and other adults? My answer is an emphatic
NO! Essentially, I have responded to this question in
replying to the two above. But let me reiterate. The
most inconsiderate action which the students could take
toward their fellows and their parents would be to quit
bothering them, for that would mean that they do not
care about them and their welfare. I think that these
college students are more concerned with the weifare
of their fellow man than any other group that I know
about in the history of mankind. Perhaps we are mov-
ing toward a true understanding and a true attainment
of a community of mankind, of the world.

In ending his letter this father writes, “Somewhere
there has been a tremendous generational gap for un-
derstanding. and I hope your answers will close this to
some degree.” Well, I have attempted. in one way, to
answer his specific questions. But I would also like to
use his statement, quoted above, to make some remarks
about the present status of Davidson College.

_In this my last column I had planned to make some
positive remarks about the college, to say what I think
is “good” about Davidson. I have been principally cri-
tical—although I hope constructively so—. of the col-
lege this year. But I have also said that I love this col-
lege and believe strongly in its potential to be a great
institution; essentially, 1 support the purpose of the
college and its committment to maintain its Christian
character. Of course, the problem arises in the inter-
pretation of how to apply that purpose and how to
maintain that Christian character.

And as I try to formulate some positive remarks
1 always reach an impasse because I am not satisfied
enough to quit being concerned about any particular
aspect: The library has improved, but .. ., the warmth
of the college community is gratifying, but . . . , the
faculty constitutoin is a step forward, but .. . .

_ I find that my attachment to the college is almost
entirely emotional: the beauty of the grounds and the
pleasantness of the Piedmont area of North Carolina.
And, principally, it is the people whom one gets to
know and admire that make one’s college experience
worthwhile. This is the great strength of Davidson Col-
lege. Perhaps that is all that matters.

But this more personal element cannot be separt-
ed from the objective situation of the college and cer-
tainly does not negate my criticisms of it: 1 probably
would never be satisfied with the degree of improve-
ment which the college makes because I would always
want more from it. Perhaps this is part of the human
predicament.

I have attempted to decrease “the generational
gap for understanding” in my columns this year by
presenting my ideas as representative of my genera-
tion. I am not sure that 1 have increased this under-
standing, but I have gained the confidence to know this
much: the elders must recognize and accept the con-
temporary “truths” of my generation or face the con-
sequences of increasing and continuing generational
conflic
