Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the schuol year, except
during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, ‘
N.C

SAM BOYTE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

BILL WATSON
Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1967

Half A Loaf

After crying so much for an in-
creased student voice in college af-
fairs, we feel sort of foolish about
quibbling with a proposal that has
such a goal. This time, however, we
must.

Last week Student Body President
Tom Earnhardt raised the idea that
the faculty’s Student Life Committee
might be used like the College Council
that was proposed by the Blue Sky
Subcommittee on Student Life last
spring. Students: are members of the
faculty committee, and Earnhardt

would certainly be correct if he said -

that increased use of the committee
by the Student Council constitutes a
greater voice for the students in col-
lege affairs. It would have been point-
less to seek to get student representa-
tion on faculty committees if students
did not plan to make the fullest pos-
sible use of their representation. So
Earnhardt is making a wise move in
seeking to channel just as much stu-
dent responsibility to the faculty com-
mittee as it will take.

But we wonder if he realizes the im-
plications of the College Council con-
cept. It is true that the council’s func-
tions were described in the Blue Sk
subcommittee’s report. as being siml-
lar to those of the faculty’s Committee
on Student Life. It is also true that the
make-up of both the council and the
faculty committee are similar in that
both would include representatives
from the faculty, administration and
student body.

But.the philosophy behind the two
groups is not the same. Student use of
faculty committees is simply a good
use of the present system of college
government. The College Council re-
flects a much more progressive con-
cept, the concept of an integrated
campus government.

In various speeches this fall, Earn-
hardt has made much of the idea that
the college community should not be
a fragmented world where the stu-
dents go wandering off screaming
about their independence while they
cut the lines of communication that
would actually allow them to exercise
their influence. A readily apparent ex-
ample of this sort of thing. can be
found at Davidson in the conflict be-
tween the faculty and student rules
about alcohol. The fact that the stu-
dent body rules allow drinking on

the campus does not change the fact
that such consumption is still illegal,
at least in the faculty rules. Those
rules are easily enough to kick a stu-
dent out of school. While this is the
most readily apparent example of the
absurdity of conflicting faculty and
student rules over student life, it is
only an indication of how baseless is
the claim of student independence.

Inherent in the College Council con-
cept is the idea that students, faculty
and administration should share the
responsibility for campus government.
It presupposes the belief that students
are mature enough to share in the
making of the policies that will actu-
ally matter. It also assumes that the
faculty and administration would al-
low to students the control over the
entire college community that their
maturity warrants.

The biggest question involved in the
acceptance of the council and the phi-
losophy behind it is not the willing-
ness of the faculty and administration.
Members of both have discussed the
idea with the result that they have a
very favorable opinion of it. Student
willingness to realize the responsible
position that they could occupy on
this campus is the biggest stumbling
biock hindering the realization of in-
tegrated campus government. It seems
that it will take a major conflict for
students to see that liberalization of
their own self-government does no
good unless they can effect a similar
change in the regulations that really
matter, the faculty rules. Getting more
representation on faculty committees
and even making the most of that rep-
resentation is not the same as cooper-
ating in the governing of the college
and having that cooperation fully rec-
ognized.

Perhaps Earnhardt’s emphasis upon
the faculty Student Life Committee is
really just a subtle backdoor approach
to achieve the goal of an integrated
campus government.: We urge the
Student Council to.go ahead with its
plans to make the fullest possible use
of faculty committees, but we cannot
Say that such methods are as good as
going to the front door to seek the
implementation of the ideas proposed
by the Blue Sky subcommittee as they
are exemplified in the College Coun-
cil. Some energetic pursuit of these
ideas could bring them down out of
the sky onto this campus.

Semantic Antics

Syndicated columnist Sydney J. Har-
ris, the intellectual leader of middle-
aged journalism, often devotes his col-
umn to something that he calls “An-
tics with Semantics.”

In this column he says such things
as, “I am unpretentious; you are cas-
ual; he is a slob.” The object of his
ramblings along this line is to demon-
strate the effects of careful selection
of words.

If he were to visit Davidson today,
he might well gain:a new item for his
column: “He is a social affiliate; I am
a participant in an extended rush pro-
gram.”

Once again, the fraternity presi-
dents have managed to come up with
a good plan for remedying some of
the faults of the Davidson social and

fraternity system. The basic shape of:

the compromise they will submit to
the faculty Tuesday was given in the
original “total opportunity” proposal
that they drafted last spring.

The solution offered by their com-
promise proposal retains the spirit of
their old plan. To butcher an old tele-
vision line, only the words have been
changed to protect the innocent.

As far as the compromise affects
the freshman, the difference between
the old and new fraternity presidents’
plan is largely one of semantics. From
the viewpoint of the national fraterni-
ties, the changes will be more sub-
stantial. By dropping the title of “‘so-
cial affiliate’, the compromise pro-
posal overcomes the objections raised
bv several of the nationals that “so-
cial affiliate” status is illegal under
their constitutions.

The creation of a judicial board un-
der the compromise proposal should
overcome the objection by nationals
that students who are not brothers
would tend to be irresponsible for the
welfare of the fraternity’s members.
One claim that has been voiced by the
nationals is that a fraternity would
have no way of disciplining a social
affiliate. Supposedly such a student
would be able to avoid paying his
board bill: or he might destroy house
furniture without being subject to

punishment. The judicial board pro-
posed by the presidents will insure
that students have some way to discli-
pline irresponsible rushees.

Under the old total opportunity

lan, 3 fraternity did not have to give
ts consent for an affiliate to remain
at the house for longer than two
riénths. The affiliate could ‘stay as
log as he wished. The new plan gives
the fraternity the>right to withdraw
its invitation to a-rushee after a two-
month regardless of whether or not
the rushee wants. to leave, This pro-
vision may cause some local objec-
tions that the rushee is being abused.
However, it seems to us that if a fra-
ternity is willling to tell a rushee that
he is no longer welcome that this feel-
ing would already be so apparent at
the house that the rushee would be
ready to leave anyway. It is a shame
that people still have not learned to
get along with each other and find
the best that there is in each new in-
dividual. In this sense the compromise
proposal is not a “total opportunity”
plan. But the old plan did not change
human nature either.

Repeatedly we have stated that we
favor a local fraternity system that
would not be hobbled by national af-
filiations. The fraternities missed their
chance to grab such an opportunity
back when they consulted the nation-
als for their opinion of the total oppor-
tunity plan. If any of the nationals had
jerked charters because of their ob
jections to the old plan after they had
been consulted, their action would
have created a stigma about local fra-
terities that would have been hard to
overcome. For this reason we are
pleased that the fraternity presidents
were able to come up with a plan that
retains the spirit of their previous one
and still can be within the tolerance
bounds of the nationals.

We would like to see the day come
when freshmen would come to college
with enough maturity to see through
the sophomoric infatuation over Greek
mystic goodies. But until such a day,
the fraternity presidents’ compromise
plan may serve to aid the freshman’s
adjustment to the Davidson fraternity
system.

"and you told me it didn’t work!”

c=
N
I \

The

Honor

System

a

Poet’s Words Unheard
By Pepsi Generation

Pictures From An Institution
By Randall Jarrell, Me-
ridian Fiction, $1.45.

It would be foolish to pre-
tend to know a great deal
about Randall Jarrell. He
taught at the University of
North Carolina in Greens.
boro, and more than a few
of the bright young writers
that have for unknown and
unquestioned reasons made
North Carolina their hunting
grounds and home were
taught by him.

He was an excellent teach-
er, a rebellious critic. and a
frustrated and _ neglected
poet. (When I. told Peter
Nicholls, director of The
Student Store, that I want-
ed to review Jarrell's only.
work in the bookstore, he
pointed out that the two
copies of Pictures from an
Institution had been there as
long as he had.)

In Poetry and the Age
(which Mr. Nicholls is order-
ing.) there is an essay on
the obscurity of the poet.
“Tomorrow morning,” Jar-
rell says, “some poet may.
like Byron, wake up to find
himself famous — for hav-

ing written a novel, for hav- ,

killed his wife; it will not be
for having written a poem.”

Like Cummings’ The En-
ormous Room, Pictures from
an Institution is Jarrell’s
only work of fiction (‘‘a
comedy’’). The Institution is
Benton (“Half the campus
was designed by Bottom the
Weaver, half by Ludwig Mies
van der Rohe’), an expen-
sive, progressive female col-
lege located somewhere be-
tween Sarah Lawrence and
Bennington.

The book is a_ series of
portraits of faculty folk and
their wives, the President
and Mrs., and his secretary.
President Robbins, a former
Olympic diver, glows, raises
money, loves and is Benton.

Jarrell attacks new institu-
tionalism in President Rob-
bins and those around him
and smacks dehumanized

letters in a portrait of Ger-
trude, the writer in resi-

dence.

Jarrell was first what we
have come to call a war poet,
and in 1845 some part of the
war was over. In a lecture a
year ago at the Library of
Congress, Karl Shapiro en-
deavored to place Jarrell in
his time, among his fellow
poets, to descry the message
of his tragic death:

“Our poetry, from the lor-
ties on, fecords the helpless-
ness we felt in the face of
the impersonal character of
the age—the Impersonal it-
self which is always the
death to poetry .. . he (Jar-
rell) was modern, which
means hating being modern.
He was born after Humpty
Dumpty fell off the wall, and

he knew that T. S. Eliot
scotch tape couldn't put any-
thing back together again."

The trouble is that few of
us know that Humpty-Dump-.
ty has fallen or would re-
cognize T. S. Eliot scotch
tape if we were stuck to the
wall with it.

We are assaulted and insult-
ed by the Media and respond
in either drunken flailing or
stare in glazed stupid hypno-
tized silence. We either pre-
tend to understand the intel-
lectual gnashings that go on

around us or ignore them
completely.

The institution matches
money for money. We hop
from our surfboards crying
for the taste you never get
tired of. The undeclared war
continues.

And the poet still speaks,
clear—simpler than we ex-
pect, still somehow respect-
ing us, unheard in the dron-
ing, rising noise and confu-
sion of the intellectual Pepsi
generation. .

Read Randail Jarrell.

~—BILL SMYTH

The
ubtern 7 al
: Bonsp i-

By HEYWARD CARTER
' Associate Editor \

tome Gj ee secemartineastieeen

The Voice Of Heresy

anything on this side of the editorial page to
be positive yhOur any aspect of Davidson is highly un-
usual—to be in endorsement is pure heresy. This
week, however, I feel obliged to break with tradition
and actually plug a Davidson program.

e object of this bold bit of enthusiasm is the
junior Year Abroad Program, one of the least publi-
cised but most worthwhile aspects of the college. Hav-
ing experienced it myself, it’s hard for me to now un-
derstand why the program doesn’t have more of a re-
sponse from the students.

ck of information and publicity is a reason,
but pened more so is student apathy. To disturb the
typical state of inertia in order to really consider
or apply for the program Is extremely  diffi-
cult—especially to the sophomores who are in the very
middle of their customary slump just about the time
action has to be taken on their application to the pro-

ara Eligibility is relatively simple for most—a C’ or
better overali average and an average of B or better
jn the language one is taking. The rest is even easier.
In terms of cost, the program is not significantly more
expensive than a normal year at Davidson, especially
when it is considered that a round trip to Europe is
included. oo,
Another objection to the program which is often
cited is the difficulty that those with a pre-med or
other arduous major have in spending a year in Europe"
and fulfilling their major requirements. Although the
science department may not like to admit it, it can be
done without too much strain on the student. It was
done last year by a substantial number. of students,
none of which are now feeling that much of a hard

wn
=

ip.

P with a student body as alert for good deals as
Davidson’s, this makes no sense. at all. The Junior Year
Abroad Program, though it is not stated so in the oro-
chure, is the best set of deals that Davidson ever dealt.
A year in France, Germany, or Spain with a relatively
easy work load and at least four months to travel
seems enough to interest even a sophomore. Just the
fact that it’s a year away from Davidson should excite
a few—it certainly has in past years.

The main reason for apathy to the program is, 1
believe, that most of us don’t realize exactly how good
the deals really are. Why should Davidson give us the
chance to trade a weekend at Hattie’s for a weekend
in Paris or Madrid or the opportunity to go to classes
where the girl-boy ratio is better than 7-2?

It seems likely that there is a catch somewhere,
But there isn’t. I went over summer before last wait-
ing for the catch to come—the one big screw that
“they” never told us about before we left—but it never
did. come. Even now, although I did all required work
and received full credit for the year, I still have the
feeling that ['ve gotten away with something.

Fulbright: In Democracy

Criticism Is ‘Act Of Faith’

ED. NOTE: This is the first of a
series of four articles excerpted by
permission of Random House, inc.
from The Arrogance of Power, by U.S.
Senator J. William Fulbright, D-Ark.,
Copyright, 1966, by J. William Ful-
bright.

To criticize one’s country is to do it a
service and pay it a compliment. It is a
service because it may spur the country
to do better than it is doing; it is a com-
pliment because it evidences a belief that
the country can do better than it is do-
ing..

In a democracy dissent is an act of
faith. Criticism may embarrass the
country’s leaders in the short run but
strengthen their hand in the long run; it
may destroy a consensus on policy while
expressing a consensus of values.

Criticism, in short, Is more then a

right; it Is an act of patriotism, a
higher form of patriotism, | belleve,
than the familiar rituats of national
adulation,

. We are an extraordinary nation, en-
dowed with a rich and productive land,
a humane and decent political tradition
and a talented and energetic population.
Surely a nation so favored is capable of
extraordinary achievement, not only in
the area of producing and enjoying great
wealth, in which area our achievements
have indeed been extraordinary, but also
in the area of human and international
relations, in which area, it seems to me,
our achievements have fallen short of
our capacity and promise.

My question is whether America can
close the gap between her capacity and
performance. My hope and my belief
are that she can, that she has the human
resources to conduct her affairs with a
maturity which few if any great nations
have ever achieved: to be- confident but
also tolerant, to be rich but also gener-
ous, to be willing to teach but also will-
ing to learn, to be powerful but also
wise.

I believe that America is capable of
all of these things; I also believe she is
falling short of them.

The discharge of the duty of dissent
is handicapped in America by an an-
worthy tendency to fear serious criticism
of our government. In the abstract we
celebrate freedom of opinion as part of
our patriotic liturgy; it is only when some

Americans exercise it that other Amer.
icans are shocked.

No one of course ever criticizes the
right of dissent; it is always this per
tleuler instance of it or its exercise
under these particular circumstances
or at this particular time that throws
people into a blue funk.

Intolerance of dissent {s a well-noted
feature of the American national char:
acter. Louis Hartz attributes it to the
heritage of a society which was “born
free,’ a society which is unnerved by
serious criticism because it has experi-
enced so little of it. Alexis de Tocque-
ville took note of this tendency over a
hundred years ago: “I know of no coun-
try in which there is so little independ-
ence of mind and real freedom of dis-
cussion as in America.”

Profound changes have occurred since
Democracy in America first appeared
and yet it may be asked whether recog-
nition of the right of dissent has gained
substantially in practice as well as in
theory.

The malady in Tocqueville's view was
one of democracy itself: * . . The small-
est reproach irritates its sensibility and
the slightest joke that has any founda-
tion in truth renders it indignant: from
the forms of its language up to the solid
virtues of its character, everything must
be made the subject of encomium. No
writer, whatever be his eminence, can

escape paying this tribute of adulation to
his fellow citizens.”

From small-town gatherings to high
Policy councils Americans are distressed
when a writer or a Politician or even
a private citizen interrupts all this self-
congratulation and expresses himself with
simple, unadorned candor. The problem
is worsening, among other reasons, be
cause more and more of our citizens
earn their livings by working for corpora.
tions and other large organizations, few
of which are known to encourage political
and other forms of heterodoxy on the
part of their employes.

The result is that more and more
Americans face the dilemma of how, if
at all, an individual can safely exercise
honest individual judgment, indeed, re.
tain his capacity for it, in an environ.
ment in which the surest route to ad
vancement is conformity with a barren

and oppressive orthodoxy.

- ‘The problem is acute in the federal
bureaucracy, whose congenital inhospi-
tality to unorthodox ideas, were its di-
mensions only known, would allay the
eaxieties of the most agitated superpa-
triot.

This is unfortunate indeed because
the most valuable public servant, like
the true patriot, is one who gives a
higher loyalty to his country’s ideals
then to its current policy and who
therefore is willing to criticize as well
as to comply.

Some time ago I met an American
poet, Mr. Ned O'Gorman, who had just
returned from a visit to Latin America
sponsored by the State Department. He
said, and previously had written, that he
had been instructed by American embas-
sy officials in the countries he visited
that if he were questioned, by students
and intellectuals with whom he was
scheduled to meet, on such ‘‘difficult”
questions as the Dominican Republic and
Vietnam, he was to reply that he was.
“unprepared.”

At a meeting with some Brazilian stu-
dents he finally rebelled, with the follow-
ing result as he described it: ". . . the
questions came, swirling, battering, bel-
lowing from the classroom. Outside the
traffic and the oily electric heat. But 1
loved it. I was hell bent for clarity. I
knew they wanted straight answers and
I gave them.

“I had been gorged to srckness with
embassy prudence. The applause was
long and loud. The embassy man was
furious. ‘You are taking money dishon-
estly, he told me. ‘If the government
pays you to do this tour you must defend
it and not damn it.’

“It did no good when | explained to
him that if I didn’t do what | was do-
ing, then I'd be taking the money dis-
honestly. . . .”

It escapes me totally why American
diplomats should not be proud to have
American poets and professors and poli-
ticians demonstrate their country's polit-
ical and intellectual health by expressing
themselves with freedom and candor. As
O'Gorman put it, “*. . . I spoke with equal
force of the glory and the tragedy of —
America. And that is what terrified the
Americans."
