a

First Year’s
Paper Reviewed

Newspaper, College Quite
Different From Present.

Paper Ends Yar In The Black

The year 1914 is one of particular interest in David-
son’s 133 year history . ;

Certainly things have changed; but there is also an
essence of similarity between that year ‘and today, |
something about the Davidson experience which’ has |
remained unchanged. |

At least this is true if one can believe what he reads}
in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Today some would doubt that;
but in 1914 the paper was as fresh and honest as a new
politician. for it was there that the paper you are read
ing began

From its initial is on
came a valuable part of the life of
students.

Of course, i!
ferently then

Vacancies in the staff were filled by competition

The paper was only four pages, and it was published}
in the paper's office, “19 S, Chambers.”

The editor was still the begt friend of the student gov-|
ernment, the faculty and the administration. |

At the end of the year, THE DAVIDSONIAN finished
with a $9.62 balance, a feat unmatched in recent years.

Oh, the good ol’ days.

The baseball team was losing even then,> finishing
with a deficit, but it still drew lafger crowds than the
basketball team. :

The most important news involved the chapel speak-
ers, the senior speeches, the class rivalries and a win-
ning football team.

It was back when Duke University was still Trinity
College, and a win over Trinity was acknowledged as
a greater thing than this year’s win over Trinity.

To be sure, some things were still the same.

There was still the freshman-sophomore waterfight.
In a stoty headed “Freshmen Meet Their Waterloo,”
the paper recounted, “No one escaped. It seemed as if
the Sophs got as wet carrying water as the Fresh did
catching it. Even Juniors were wet by mistake and the
general effect was rather dampening.”

There was still a debate team, but it was played up

to a greater significance in those days.

‘There was a revision in the student body constitu-
tion during the year’ “replacing the inefficiency and
ambiguity” of the old one.

But Davidson College itself then was also different.

The rules. still existed, and surprisingly there was
little protest of them. .

The Code of Ethics — now the Honor Code — in-
cluded all that the present code includes and added to
it the violation of “hazing,” for which one could be
suspended from school.

The Oct. 28 DAVIDSONIAN noted that during a
special College Day commencement program’there were
“no chapel exercises before breakfast,” on that day.

There being only a handful of fraternities at the time,

sue

April 1, 1914, the paper be

the college and. the

dif

being a novelty, the paper was run

The DAVIDSONIA

2 THE FIRST YEAR

The DAVIDSONIAN

VOL DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Woodrow Wilson Re- Many
eeives President Martin

Plemast Recollections of (olicee B2)s gine,
at Day idves

Civie
ments

News of te

MANY OTWER NOTABLES SEEN

Colkege walters Discussed With
téecational | iperts

~ z
quite careful to print any and all town announcements
and news.

Editorial content today is a bit different from what it
was in 1914.

In that. year, editor F. W. Price found need to comment
on a number of issues ignored by his succesors in re-
cent years,

He wrote each week on the football team’s victories or
losses. He boosted the ideals of school spirit and of the
Davidson tradition, and he provided a rousing defense
of the Code of Ethics.

In one issue, Price offered his unqualified support of

the main competition, athletic and otherwise, was be-
tween. the different classes.

While the fraternities were destined to struggle it!
out on academic grounds, the football field and the bas- |
ketball court found the fierce class rivalries played to|
conclusion. 2

The freshmen were the surprising team in basketball |
that year, dominating the intramural competition all
season; but a late season charge by the seniors tied them
in the standings and a playoff was’ necessary.

In that final crucial game, the freshmen’ walked away
from the seniors, 17-6, a game’ described by the basket
ball writer as “clean and exciting.” :

In football that year, the juniors and the sophomores
fought to a gruelling 0-0 tie in their playoff game.

The fife of Davidson can be readily seen in the col-
umns of the first year’s paper, for the editors were

ECE EDS ESSE eET ENF ASE BEEBE EEO.

GIVE :
J.H. WERTZ :
The Fancy Grocer |

A trial and BE CONVINCED

that he is the leader in

LOW
PRICES

National Biscuit Co.'s Goods
A Specialty

Fresh Fruits
Always On Hand

gs.

the faculty in reaction to the faculty’s decision to grant
the students’ petition to lengthen the Christmas holidays
(which ran that year from Dec. 23 through Jan. 5).

Perhaps the most interesting editorial of the year
not to detract from the quality of the others —- was
Price’s editorial against the town law prohibiting roller
skating on the sidewalks .(He wrote it for the benefit of
town children, not himself.)

But the biggest change in Davidson and in editorials
came in the Feb. 3, 1915 edition of the paper, when
Price wrote an editorial urging attendance at basketball
games, because attendance and interest weren’t so good
He cited, among other things, that the new floor of the
indoor gym would aid the Wildcats’ game

THE DAVIDSONIAN—of 1914 was indeed
from its modern day counterpart.

Students were less concerned with curriculum revi-
sion, area exams and the.like in 1914. What bothered
them was the lack of school spirit at a rally or something
which injured the concept of the Davidson Gentleman.

At times one stops to wonder why the big difference,
but it really comes as a change in attitude derived from
the change in times.

They were editoralizing on the war then, too. But it
was a different war and it produced a different attitude:

The football team was. winning, but it was more im-
portant to people then for some reason, and the entire
student body was liable to pile onto.a train bound for an
away game.

There was a livelier spirit about the “Dividson thing”
then. Looking back on it, one sometimes wishes the
spirit were still here today.

But one thing hasn’t changed that much. That is the
editor’s desire to put out a paper worth reading. Said
Price, “If you do not like our paper, téll us so, and tell
us why. We will try to remedy the defect. If you do like
our paper, be sure to tell us, for the life of the amateur
journalist is one of trials and tribulations, and we are
in need of whatever encouragement we may receive.”

aia

RJ. SHELTON ~

different

a

DAVIDSON N C

Improve. Societies Hect Otticers Base

OS TOE er = a “Eng

Livery, Feed |
|
and ———

Sale Stables

Phone No. 74-L

DAVIDSON : : N.C. |
{ |

\
A

You

[One time, 5c a line. The minimum charge is

IWANTED — To half-sole that pair of shoes.
iWANTED — To hire you an auto. C. B. Moon-

APRIL 1 1914

NO 1

Ball Season

fe MRTG AIO CARD. AE “eRe aR

PF PDS

The Davidsonian

Report

During its first year of publication, THE DA-
« VIDSONIAN became one of the most exciting fa- ©
cets of student life, playing the role of communica- |

fia aa

Launched |

time Prospects lor » Leed Season

MAGATINE STARE ELECTED

Early Advertising Called

Picturesque, Successful
Ads Reflect Spirit Of Times
Prices Were Outlandish

If there was one thing THE DAVIDSONIAN had little
trouble doing during its early months it was getting
advertising.

Considering. the problems which the paper's business
staff has today, it is a real credit to Business Manager
Paul Patrick and his staff that the paper finished in the
black. a

John P. Williams, the paper’s second editor, said re- |

cently in praise of the late Patrick that he “did so much
to put the paper on its feet financially
strenuous days.”

The advertising, from a 1969 viewpoint, was just as

interesting as the paper itself, for in it one finds a re |

flection of the times which the students.of that day faced.

“Shaving Soap 35°Cents”

Imported Wollen Suits
$15 and up.”

‘Florsheim Shoes — low cuts on sale at $4.”

There were a number of Charlotte hotels to be found
among the advertising, each calling for the students to
stop there during their “motor trips to Charlotte.”

For those without motors, there was the ad for the
“R. H. Shelton Livery, Feed and Sale Stables of David-
son.”

Jackson and Bass Cleaners were unheard of, but the
Star Steam Laundry was popular.

Before long hair Came imto fashion, the paper ran
ads for Armour Brothers and Thompson Haberdashers.
Tate Barber Shop, nt Charlotte, did the trimming.

Those were the pre‘Hub days, when the 1914 paper
ran an ad reading “Eat At Frazier’s Cafe —. Ain’t The
Gravy Good.” :

The paper even sold classified advertising at a rate of
five cents per line. Many advertisers found that an easier
way to place their ads, but there were some interesting
examples of ads placed by students, including:

“WINE SAP APPLES, 30 cents peck, See Geo. Rob-
son, at Infirmary.” Say George, were those apples that
bad?

The ads which local businesses placed, however,
somehow give the impression that Davidson town life was
a good bit more active in 1914 than it is today. Good
heavens, how?

WANT ADS.

“RATES:

Tailored To Measure

er UR

the price for two lines
BACK the advertisers who are backing us. -

G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C

ey, Phone 40

a q
LOST — Pair of Gauntlets, with collapsable
cuffs. Return to 27 Rumple and receive re-
ward.

. .Those were!

- sont
ee eae

tor both among students and between the college -
and alumni? ‘

A great deal of the credit for its success cer-
tainly goes to Frank Price, its first editor.

The 1915 QUIPS AND CRANKS commented
on this Francis Wilson Price: “Frank's ability has
developed THE DAVIDSONIAN during its first year;
his brilliance has won him a reputation; his elo-
quence has brought him distinction in public speak-
ing: his facile peh finds eager readers; he turns off
Work every minute Ls

The old “gentleman and scholar” cliche would
fit Price well. Now a retired missionary to China,
he was active in his college days in many areas of

interest, and during his distinguished missionary
career he managed to publish a n@mber of books
1 China and on the, United Nations in China
In honor of his work in getting “this contro-
versial paper” started, this year’s staff offers this

week's “Report” to Dr. Frank Price, of Lexington,
Va f

\ll stories were avritten by Bob Dunham,. the
57th editor in succession of Price.

Football Team Wins Big

“Shag” Anderson Elected Yell Leader

The 1914 football team had something inécommon
with the Davidson team today. It won ball games.

The team played the likes of the University of Florida,

North Carolina, South Carolina, Wake Forest and Clem-
son, and they still won. They finished 5-1-1-1. (We'll ex-
plain that shortly.)
. That year, 1914, was the year of the team they called
‘the “the Red and Black Electric Machine,” and unlike
some of the electricity of the times, the team kept gen-
erating.

It was the day when 900 students would load onto a
train to make the trip to Winston-Salem for the Caro-
lina game. It was the day when “Shag” Anderson was
“yell leader.” And it was the day when spirit rode even
higher than it does today.

The year started off with a victory of sorts, for the
“Machine” held a tough Clemson team to a 0-0 tie, while
playing a ball-control game. :

Editor F. W. Price wrote in the following week’s
ee ete about “the irresistable fighting spirit
which awakened from its seven-year slumber; never to
sleep again.” —as am: GREER: el ergs moe |

The following week the team played sloppily, but still
won, 22-7 over Newberry, a team with “lots of pep.”

Those of you who saw the Davidson-Furman game
this year should have been around in: 1914, when in
the season's third game, Davidson capitalized on “‘inter-
ference of superior class” to stomp Wofford, 86-6.

The paper noted the following week, “Wofford put
up a game fight to the very last minute of play, but were
powerless on account of lack of experience.”

The Red and Black Machine toppled The Citadel, 16-0,
in a “grueling contest” before dropping their lone con-
test of the year to perpetual nemesis North Carolina,

Of the fateful Carolina game, Price wrote, “the score
| does not begin to tell how close and hard-fought the

| game really was, for though outscored, the Davidsonians

were not outplayed.” ’
| Though Lefty Driesell would frown upon: it, it

| commonhy, agreed in football circles of -the day ca
Davidson’s “game fight’ wen for the school a “moral
| victory.” Lefty once likened “moral victories” to kiss-
{ing one’s sister.

After all, UNC beat Georgia that year by seven touch
| downs. ‘

The final “one” in the 5 1-1-1 was produced by Fur-
;man, who cancelled the week of the scheduled game
because, “in several hard games which they had _ pre-
viously played, the team had been so seriously crippled
and broken up that the team they would have to bring,
hould they come, would be their Scrub team.”
| In a game “hard and furious’ throughout, Davidson
| toppled South Carolina, 13-7. The paper commented on
| the breaks which USC failed to capitalize upon, including
| a punt which went only ten yards before going out° of
| bounds. Said the paper, ‘The ball was: wet and hard to
| punt.’ A likely excuse.

The Machine closed out its season as the Presbyter-
ians beat the Baptists in the Church Bowl in Charlotte,
defeating a tough Wake Forest team, 7-6.

The Wake team left the field with six minutes to play
in protest of the referee’s decision on Davidson’s extra-
point.

Ah yes, those were the days . . . when Davidson had
a winning football team and a losing basketball team.
Things have finally evolved to the proper sports per-
spective. Now we win both.

eet all call cal ath el lal

Send Your Suit To

MAREW
PRESSING CLUB

WML. E. WILLIAMS, Agent

And let a white man give

| 5.

you a white job.
23 Chambers

Se Sa

