THE DAVIDSONIAN’S
FIRST YEAR
(See Page Three

’ QUEEN
aur Bntta CONTESTANTS
amis (See Page Six)

. Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
LIX ' DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 280367FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1969

LEADERSHIP HONORARY 5 : -

ODK Selects 14 New Members

NUMBER SIX

REEFS

Weekend Activities i |
FRIDAY

78 p.m. Pep Rally Chambers Front Steps
; 8-10 Artist Series Opera Love Auditorium

& Thirteen seniors and a re- Student Government Senate seniors in Davidson's first letterman, he is an_ All- hard-rock group. “Die Fledermaus"
cent alumnus this week join- Executive Committee, and effort to employ senior foot- American candidate, and has Cary Tucker, a math ma- 10-2 a.m, Combo Party Chambers Basement
ed the ranks of Omicron Del- headed up efforts to improve ball players as coaches. He _ been Most Valuable Player, jor from Arlington, Va., has 11-1 Movie Morrison Room

ta Kappa, the national hon..

Orary leadership fraternity.
Representing a variety of
leadership fields, the new

Davidson's cafeteria service
last year.

John Baker, a former Da-
vidson and ‘Drop ‘Cat”

is assistant coach for the
freshman team, which is to
date undefeated. He also
serves as president of Phi

by teammate vote, for the
last two years. He is a mem-
ber of Phi Delta Theta.

A math major from Sur-

been oneyof the most active
voices in social and educa-
tional reform at Davidson

during the past three years,

“Romeo and Juliet”
2-2:30 a.m. Union Coffee House

Steve Gillette

Coffee and Pastries

Morrison Room

Morrison Room

members were informed by basketball player, is chair Delta Theta fraternity. rey, England, Harrell Rentz He was active in last year’s Movies Morrison Room

letter of their selection and § man of the investigating Another footballer, George i. this year's editor of the  @9U‘ROTC movement and in “Thrillers” :

will be initiated at a formal committee-of_the SGA—and Hannen, of Durham, is a QUIPS AND CRANKS. He this year’s Moratorium. 4

banquet next» month, is president of Beta Theta split end on the Wildcat foot- has been student life editor Joining the 13 seniors on ; p SATURDAY :
Election to ODK requires Pi Fraternity. He is a pre ball team. A psychology ma and-classeseditoe dt the an- the list is a 1969 graduate of - p.m, hel ee Richardson Field

a rank among the top 35 per med major from Eden. jor, he serves as a hall coun nual, and served last year Davidson, Joe Gardner. Davidson vs. VMI

4:45-6:45 Concert Love Auditorium
“Preservation Hall Jazz Band”
10: 15-2 a.m, Combo Party

cent of the class and dis ieee BOai; hee back selor and as adviser ae the as rush chairman for Sigma
played leadership in one of t nays f SE Davidson College  Presby- Phi Epsilon. term at Davidson working on

»—five—areas—of—scholar murat AE Ne ts terian Church youth group, drama and the arts, While
the five areas of - scholar

Gardner is spending | this

Chambers Basement

I ids Es SE) 1Bfe ; ~ 10:15 DA si was sading’ =" 7 :
ship: " publications,-- student Davidson G, E. College Bow] He is_a Richardson. Fellow David Troxler, a pre-med A student. he took leading e atid Readings Eumanean. Hall
: M n* ¢ efor : . ies f ita se
government and svcial life team, is a history —majot and a member of Kappa Al- major from Salisbury, is roles in a number of ‘the BAR fantom Morrison Room
Such ’ ‘ a Grange » helped : Seaial ET Say : : omeo and Juliet
athletics and music, drama Mat ME OEMs ENS pha. president of Kappa Sigma. school’s drama productions U ‘offe i
and the arts revive: the Philanthropic So- Directing the student pub- A Richardson Fellow, he The selection brings” thé 7 a.m. Union Coffee House Morrison Room
i e arts , ; ' r ’ . . “Rings '‘N Things’
i ciety and his been active in nati ‘ARITA serve s 8 id ete ° § gs
Sterling Abernathy, de- tk 5 van 3 Rh BAHRTEINY lications of the college, Tom hassel summer in’ an ODK student membership to CHEERS 4-6 Breakfast Cafeteria
Py . > s ericans “atvols 1 ‘ P neeicts ‘e ; ‘ : F: a
scribed by some as ‘“David- au ung é Hendren, of Cleveland, N lospital assistant’s position 19. Six seniors were selected It’s Homecoming 6 Folk Worship Service Morrison Room
son's Ralph Nader,” is a Freedom C., is president of ‘the Pub He also sings for a local for membership last. spring
chemistry major cfrom the David Fisher is an English lications Board and was edi
Redstone “Arsenal, Ala, He major from Nashville, Tenn., tor of this year’s Wildcat
has been active within the who has joined two other Handbook. He is a member

of Pi Kappa Alpha.
Sam Johnson, of Arlington,

Lounge Curfews sic yer ean

and the ‘Charlotte Sym

Spencer To Ask Board
For Structure Change

phony. A math major, he

.
P ~ : ? was quite active in the anti
f O Be emove e ROTC movement last year
‘ and spoke against ROTC*this
year at freshman camp,

By RICK WHITENER of the possible hours for

i ) D +440) Dorms One of the backbone ele- ‘ .
field meruer 3 tee aia ae ; ams ments of the college union, Tr st J
The Residence Hall Coun can now be held vany time Alien=Wewlsteomiectinnts u ees Oo e
cil voted unanimédusly Mon- from noon to midnight Fri .

ville,, S.C., has provided

day to suspend all curfews day and Saturday nights. In much of. the leadership in
for the lounges in the resid the amended version, they pronueuon Bnd direction cot e orts oda
ence halls. The action, sup an E os. any Friday os unidh activities. He is tym

>, , . *resider Saturday rr r 2 $ : ;
ported by RHC President aAturcas rom noon to panist for the Davidson Wind
Tom Opie, must win the ap a. m. Bikemble, By JOHN FINE In a move: to standardize
proval of the faculty’s Stu Since these two measures This year's scholar’ -‘ath News Editor Wage policy..of organizations
dent Life, Committee before MTG COLIMMENIIE Cha abt lete, Stagg Newman, math President. Samuel R PIU CETOUE  Spedter WHE.teC
it can take effect. ments, they must be acted side Si ‘

major from Ravenswood, W. commend “that any organiza-

A similar resolution § sus- upon by the SGA Senate and fase eines Renty et Spencer dr. will recommend tion operating on the David-
; : : Va., ranks third in the senior that the trustees adopt. in
pending the curfew in the the faculty Student Life Com oF is : ember. of the ; son campus, Whether it be
F ers ¥ ; cla is a member. o he principle the proposal of the ; ;
fraternity houses has been mjttee before they can be cross country team — and (e] i Relig a fraternity, food service, or
passed by the Interfrater- come effective. OMmission_ on PB OUS

track team, and’is the chair any other group, meet fed-

. . : "hase. calir A Life changing the composi ;

nity Council at the suggestion These curfew and Open man of the Regulations ti ‘ i 1 number the * Gral minimum wage stand-
of IFC*Presideat Dan Herd. Dorms reforms were an in pa : WU esas esi ea " ards for its employes and
. : : Court. He is a member of Board of Trustees at the § employes anc
This measure also required direct result of last year's Pi Kappa Alpha ' provide a reasonable sche
the support of -the faculty transformation in adminis trustee meeting today

Cliff-Patterson; a pre-med dule of benefits for its em

committee tration policy toward student MA LORS EOM EON CeIOTT IT eiacn The. proposal would de ployébs.!

At Monday's meeting, Opie conduct halfhz ‘uae ue oe ’ i (Staff photo by Davidson) crease the gumber of trus Spencer will also recom
read a letter, to the RHC On October 11, 1968, the MEIpacr ang. captain on the TRUSTEE CHAIRMAN DISCUSSES CHANGE tees from 52 to 42 and allow mend that the-trustees ap
from Dean of Students Rich- Code of Responsibility went Syocel: teary sf suireevens Walter Lingle shared ideas with Professor Alan Brinkley last spring. Ueda ne alge te Le prove in principle David

ard C. Burts:-In the letter, into effect, The Code stated fain representation on tlhe

Sons participation n an
mace Goes Hobbie Rides In Senate a es
ations that he felt the RHC concerning student conduct [se a e qa €; Under ‘the proposed redi

change

and the IFC should take into unless in direct conflict with tribution, the 12 Supporting The group, which hopes to
p, |
account in arriving at.this the Code would rémain = in a) presbyteric would) eaeh tart the exchange next fall
decisic effect until they could be ve om ie 1 e S 10L Uri elect two trustec include Hollin Randolpt
I p of .discu viewed Iwelve alumni would serve Macon, Mary Baldwin. Sweet
iol n review was made i RICH WILSON Ae ; iP ( he board. Bach vear the Briat Hampdor dne
the é e the spring of 1969 by the ey. ; Sperber. ite De " ARAN oi! OY it diy vio decided to withdra Ler alumni associatiot woul Randolph Macor mer
Uy Bit " y Staff Writer ut $725 from the one prd the=thles-ol-the-eonel ; : : :
sider rt college staff, a commissior } n ry bud \ : ryd MSRM EY eeu elect fwo members. and the WasMngton & Lec dD
: JOSE NT vi idget tution fi { ' f] ' | ]
discussion, the group decid on student conduct beyond After -fwa,, meetings this NGTINES ten 0 ; ; é ih UC } © Senate voted to raduating cla would s¢ vidson
’ . nou Oo $3 hy M thes , by ! : ie
ed that noise was not pro those for traffic control and vear the Student Sc te yr hie aes 4 % he than’ the publicize the November Mor lect one hi inrangement As of now, of cot !
Ce_preside ( \ rulit { me : al j bot { t t
blen fraternity” adinis tand eems to he functionin eee od tient ; eo 2 : ” DY “distribu bu ure tha four recer problem of housit Would he
In other actiong@t its first ird smoothly and headed in the hecaitice ti : As ! cecepted sradua erve on dhe tru ! major practical one, and
h ] Nhe enal \ t ( t true ' . fd as f 1 |
me g of the year thi Because of these: change direction in which President fat ae ' ru minatio 0 enators for Lee .ould) probably demand
i more f ibrlit H I ‘i 5
We the RHC voted -to tudent committées are now Peter Hobbie would like to ae thee bud i positions ot court of ap Pwo membi vould bt one for one exchan
} » the bude d ALte ; } 1
the RHC Con responsible for. making ans 0 Bee i : atission peals which’ will replace the elected by the faculty fro hers large enough to provid
’ laVet oO ) Wwe } {
the host provision regulations coneerning tt rhe rl the’! i 4 ul ! Ily exec con tee outside their 1 id for one dormitoty on ce x
‘ I ‘ cl t bs0s) " IVC tot oOup 4 { ] t 1 ! wer i
rO Jorms. dent conduct 1wough these da Oct 3— began with ; a ‘nied ; } ip yt he bh u« court for mit el wT oleécted r aitt le -d (
An nt to th regulatior are* subject to discussion of the student go pet ( ( ( Be wise 2 oe ae oe
RHC onstitu tha approval by the adfninistra ernment budget. which had ae { uoN@e@ r ™~ a ai
\t ‘ na fot ps 1 bie t SUxuR ‘BP ‘ a bed nN ‘ Membership it t (
,ed Monday was an extensio on been approved by, the finanes After the disc a ea 4 1m ‘ oO I¢ 4 O e y e6 ry ieee:
| o I ontrae GhanRecdgeROOL “ieaniioe
budget, Hdbbie said that thi a SS 1 A Cc 3

TT iapns » T . Daegu Cign meeting would be a “clear . ae = s : chanie With other sBocr
furnau Players To Present 2". flor New Campus Computer ~~ |

)
D> | ‘“ = * + information about the t . r position of Davidson
German Comed Of Errors ham. Moratorium was circul Representative of five wie time it takes ,to select COBOL are preferred rae Velev related hool
¥ Sie ating fitins—met—with—assistent 1—hid—-wit ave no beerinsy Fie—anit—must—_atso he will b realfirmed in_accord-
On Sept. 50 Hobbie said hy business manager Robert J on t date, Ste adaptable to. -Gxpansion in ance with the recommenda
The Turnau Qpera Players on a bench ina park. Falke, gowns, Rosalinda comes a wént to the faculty to ask Stephenson and. associate phen ve"fopms: larger memory ion of the Religious Life
will present Johann Strauss’ who WaS ‘dressed as a bat, a Hungarian Countess and them’ to suspend classes or professor — of mathematic A decision ‘to procure a fister central. processor, ad namaste ely Spencer said.
opera “Die Fledermaus” to- woke up the next morn her husband,.von Eisenstein Oct. 15. However [ said I Jerry A, Roberts Wednesday new computer . wa made ditional ~disc drive. ‘faster Under proposed _ policies,
night at 8 p.m, in Love Au ®hd had to walk home in is there disguised as a Was not representing , th to discuss the specifications last fall by Dr. Samuel R (See COMPUTER, Page 6) (See TRUSTEES, Page 6)
ditorium as part of the his costume in the midst of Frenchman. He does mot re Senate in this matter of the. «computer system Spencer Jr. The matter ha
Davidson College Artist the Sunday strollers. cognize, her and makes love Concerning the expendi which the college plans to been under extensive studs
Series. Alfred, the Ttalian opera to her as: she leads him on tures of the Moratorium procure, since that time. : O er
The Turnau group” is- a singer, is in loye with Vor At six von Eisenstein stag Hobbie said that if the Sen According to Stephenson Roberts denied rumor
pilot attempt to bring opera Eisenstein’s wife, Rosalinda gers off to keep his appoint- ate would not pay for it, the each representative met with that one firm “had ‘the’ in wy
to smaller American com- When her aati Adele re ment at prison and the war- YMCA and the college fund Roberts and him separately side track. ‘As far as I am I a Ci,
munities, and to provide ex- ceives an invitation to at den, who is there in disguise, will. After some vigorous and received a written copy ¢oncerned Several manu Xai twmanges
perience for young singers tend a;masked ball and re follows him. discussion almost unanimous fo the specifications facturers are still in the
and production - personnel quests leave to visit a ‘‘sick Eisenstein is surprised approval was given to in Bids on the system are due running,’ he said. No bids It will be early next week would not comment .on the
who. have completed work- aunt’’ she is refused by that the cell is already oc- clude the’ Moratorium costs Friday, November 7, allow- have been submitted before anything definite will text of their proposals.
shop training enabling them Rosalinda. Adele leaves in cupied| by someone who in the Senate budget. ing each bidder nine days The college is not restrict be announced regard The committee’s report
to perform regularly before tears, and Alfred enters to claims to be him; and that Later in the meeting the in which to evaluate the ed in their choice by a de ing changes in the area ex will have to be considered
audiences woo Rosalinda. the imposter was found at group™of Tom Vernon, Dan needs, propose a_ system, finite price ceiling, Stephen amination program, ac and acted upon by the facul-
According to Theo dore Alfred leaves quickly as home with his wife. ny Clodfelter, Tom Opie, and und submit an’ estimate son said. Comparisons be cording to members of the ty, and at present it appears
Strongin of The New York von Eisenstein, who is un In order to obtain an ex Cecil Burney proposed a re- Roberts expressed the tween systems offered ‘and Educational Policy Commit that the faculty will not be
Times. “The performances der jail sentence for kick- planation for the imposter, solution which was, accord: hope that a decision as to their cost will form the basis tee ‘able to consider them until
that Turnau gives to its uni ing a tax collector, enters von Eisenstein disguises ing to Burney, “to set the which bid should be accept for the final decision. Cost The committee met Mon- Nov. 11.
versally sold-out audiences with his lawyer Dr. Blind. himself as the lawyer, Dr. spirit for the coming: year.’ ed would be made within a will also determine whether day in a closed session for Student EPC member Rich
are non-stereotyped, —Spon- He dismisses Blind as_ in- Blind. Rosalinda ‘confesses Opie interjected that this week after the bids were the system is rented or pur the. second consecutive week, Cowart said that he hoped
taneous, completely intelli- ules ils, where 2 u Bion her flirtations to him: resolution was .proposed be- submitted. chased. to make a final decision on that the faculty would meet
gible and models of opera Falke enters and invites him Enrdged, he reveals his cause, ‘‘the rules of the con- Stephenson, however, was The specifications require the controversial exams The sooner to discuss the matter,
in English.” “ to the masquerade. identy only to have her re- stitution have been bent so more cautious. He predicted that the computer have a final announcement of their Which he said was urgent
Dr. Falke, “The Bat Von Eisenstein leaves with count his flirtations with the much.” Although the resol that evaluation of estimates minimum reading speed of plans will not be made un- enough to deserve quick at-
(Fledermaus). is looking for all thinking he is going to ‘Hungarian princess at the ution was worded in general and further negotiations on 300 cards per minute and a til the next meting, - how- tention.
revenge on his friend Gabriel jail. Alfred relurns and is masquerade. . terms, there was no doubt terms might take two or minimum printing speed of ever, which is scheduled for A number of sophomores
yon Eisenstein picked up by the prison war Von Eisenstein and Rosa that parts of it reprimanded three weeks. 300 lines per minute. Monday. have detlared their opposi-
Once, when the two men den who mistakes him for linda make up. -Kalke has the president for not closely The spectfications require Stressed as essential is Members of the committee tion to the area exams,
were returning home from von Eisenstein. gotten his revenge and the following the constitution. that the system be turned the capability of reading a have indicated that. some Which at present must be
a masquerade party sisen Adele arriy es at the mas- opera ends with everyone In rebutting this ee over to the college fully op scientific and a commercial changes will be made in the passed before entrance to the
stein left Falke sound asleep querade in one of Rosalinda happy. tion Hobbie stated, will erable by .August 1, 1970. inguage; FORTRAN = and present. program, but they junior year can be granted.
