e Davidsonian =“

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 2°036, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21.

FIVE SENIORS
PICKED TO START

(Sez Page Five

Yoo FU

1969

NUMBER NINE

SIGMA CHI REACTS
Size Decrease,

The Coterie obviously is

Te, id (meg, hed ee

BULLETIN!

Davidson Football Coach Homer Smith last

. e night refused to comment on rumors of his re-

oe signation and also da dl the reading

Uu ni rumor that an ineligible player might cause
* Davidson to forfeit its conference football

: championship and a trip to the Tangerine Bowl.

After a closed team meeting last night,

because the fraternity went positive rather than a nega-

eee e 4
(Staff Photo by Lyle)

not exactly what Sigma Chi
used to be. From 20 to 25
former members have re
cently gone inactive, but ex-
plains Fox Demoisey, those

local, but because of the dis-
organization which followed,

According to Walker,
“those favoring local, once
they gained local status, took

tive one according to Kroll.
“Being a local house, those

‘who want to affiliate with a

Jocal might be interested in

an organization such as ours,

function as in the past. We “3

have revised our social out-
look, but there will be a
party Saturday.

“There is an organized re-
doing of the house to give it

of the current season.

Numerous grumblings in the past 24 hours

Smith had no comment on the rumors.

Ss For some time there has been speculation
© that Smith, who has long fought the battle for
subsidized athletics, would resign at the end

ere nls : aa no initiative in working for cis aR aa , ar Get ae iH have caused widespread student concern over
venture, and _pregerving.jhe touse.” the possibility. are repari ' oy erty i the rumored charge that Davidson used en in-
z sil ) are preparing a new consti | eligible player in one game this year. If the
ac opal" hier kc Geen: trled Schafer says that the com- : We have reworked our tution and bylaws. We have —_) charge is verified, the game could forfeited, —
Relic GhAcaaeoha cl ne pslines ae the local “pellpak aystems wd that a local and unified group ef ( giving the conference title and the trip to the ©
F good job, but there will be no need for fort, and I can't be anything |) Tangerine Bowl to regular ‘season runner-up ©

intent on making the effort
successful. There is now a
feeling that everyone wants

once local status was obtain-
ed “all fines and controls
were gone, and there was a

an increase in board. There
“are some cuts, but we will

but optimistic about the sit-
uation right now.”

Richmond:

boner LO ATR TN ST,

to work and do something 3
tremendous decline in mo-
for the house. The people ; B
i rale. There resulted, an in- ’
left are of one mind. There : ae =
; credible absenteeism at
are no more divisions and
ie meetings.
our goals are unified. *
Many have gone inactive Going local was thought

for various personal reasons,
‘not all connected with the
fraternity’s disaffiation with
ifs national organization. Va
rious ex-Coterie members, in

of as a measure to Keep the
house together because of a
felt by many to
The
sult was ther opposite effect:

bitterness

ward national real re

Affiliation Fo

rSGA

cluding Walt Willker, Jack the house fell apart.

COTERIE AT THE CROSSROADS Latimer, and Bill Schate 1! ned agen of Hh Dee

’ + Lo > Ve who votec 0 tO OCE 4M
Confiscated cross now graces Little dorm. bSeyaHieh HN yacias Hea nN cause of the avareualnihy IGA President Peter Hob happy to come down in Jan até yoted to appropriate $20
‘ ape e : : pressure to keep the house Hie is planning to” propose uary to discuss the advan to’reprint pro and con mag-
C il ff l \ » together-have also joined the that the Davidson SGA rejoin tages of membership azine articles from ‘“Modera-
oO ege 1c1la Ss ae nnounce pré-nationals. ~The — sopho ; the. National Student” Asso The Senate will atso~ at tor’ -and—“New-—Guard,”’
mores especially wanted to elation témpt to line up an opponent along with a statement from

Py hold the house together, but “T think Davidson can of the NSA, perhaps David Hobbie.

C hd { ‘ Ch » they finally found out it was ‘ gain by membership in a na son alumnus Joe Beard, now Both are student = maga-
OoOmimMe ompu er ange useless,” tional student” organization at Chapel Hill, to” present zines: “The New Guard” is
o There are 33 members left Which sees: student problems the other side of the picture. the official periodical of the

Davidson. College will re- ing about them in a book.” -More flexibility in’ insti at the house according to from both the local and na On Wednesday thre Senate ee Americans for Free:
place its seven-year-old IBM The NCR Century 100 will tutional research, analysis president Jerry Kroll, Rus tional level,” Hobbie said, debated Inviting) spokesman eee sa hea Rea: ABR
1620 computer with a new be instatled Aug. 1 and rent of educational programs, ete. Vanderbaun claims that adding that there is a ‘good in favor of NSA membership, chiens adontne ald Ph
NCR Century college  offi- for $2,275 per month, accord. --Speedier registration and there are chances of more chance that thé SGA Senate but Hobbie did not HEOLSES falter reer thi see. it
cials announced today. ing to ‘Robert. J. Stephenson, stheduling of classes, giving coming down in the next will approve — membership that funds be appropriated neecBoule vake heeds NBA

The new system will in- assistant business manager staff members more time to few weeks, and rush chair- ’ when the issue comes up. to pay the speakers _expen renaanteae ie "4g
clude a printer with a capa- of the-college and a former spend with students and sup- man Bill Lear says that the Acc ording to Hobbie, there ses... Instead of alloting $80 aaa Spe ec
city of 450 lines per minute, employee of a data process: plying students and profes house is now reworking its arettwo. NSA officers at the for. that purpose, a figure fe aq ineeee Pet
and two magnetic dise packs ing manufacturer. sors with information more financial and legal set up. HOBBIE University of North Carolina, which had been Ruta ie bald that (hes aria nvehibotive
for the storage of 4 million Some of its other features quickly. } The Coterie ayiniee 2s + Sapper NBA SORBET RUE Se Wane pe HATE St NSC EEE during his remaining days in

characters of information
each.

“The 1620 has déhe a lot of

work for us,’ commented : ; s mittee. This ~ recommenda
--Basic memory units of t ) e e 7 , :
Dr. Jerry A, Roberts, asso ; ; tion was passed in the Sen
; rods coated with thin mag- 1eS rh a | Cc 20S <
ciate professor of mathe- Peviteellm se ineteade ofan the a ate last week-and now goes:
matics and director of the a j ‘ ere : : TEE to the faculty for approval.
college's. computer opera- dead edrabeetely NAB ETC By STEVE CROSS zy Afroes, Buttons in bold who marched for coming, As the marchers passed by some simply went sightsec Reflecting~ upon—his. past
tions. cores. Asst. Copy Editor colors with bolder slogans (Many of the marchers were the front of the White House, ing. mohths th office. Hobbie hot

include:
--A memory in the comput
er itself of 32,768 characters:

40 Davidson. Students Brave Cold Winds

Early last Friday

girls.

each shouted out the

office is the addition of two
seniors as non-voting mem

bers of the Admissions Com-

“But computers have come -Standardized memory un : : morn: shouted from every lapel r one A ia Saturday’s main anti-war ed that while no major. leg-
a long way in seven years, its and logic circuits, mean- ing at Arlington National : rhe Davidson students Phere was no-heckling .ex name he was carrying Then activity was a mass march islation has passed the Sen
and we ail a. more BAURT ing easier servicing. Cemetery, SGA President joined the march at 8:15 cept for one or two catealls, they took off their placards and rally at. the Washington ate, All-is-going well on the
ced ‘avstem! to demonstrate “Fast information retrie- Peter Hobbie and several They crossed Arlington roar and a middle aged man with and placed them in unpaint Monument. By 8 a.m. large committees that°he has’ ap
to Sie students operations val through. sophisticated e- other. Davidson College Stu crial Bridge into Washingtoni a sign saying, ‘Would you ed pine coffins crowds of people had already pointed: the Educational’ Re-
possible on more, sophisti- lectronic ‘reading’ equip- dents stood waiting in the D. C., and passed the White protest to Hanoi and really Along the way, marcher: (See WASHINGTON, Pg. 6) (See NSA, Page 6)

: Teh ment. cold November wind to be House on the way to the end this war?” Office Work made the peace sign to pe i
cae Suen : gin the March Against Death Capitol : ers on their coffee breaks destrians, passing motorists, 2) 4 ) e

ORE ee ce oat tenes Stephenson saidi shat the THe continuous parade of Peter Hobbie said that he peered) down out of their and casual observers. Once tuc ent | lanning
computer will be able to read new system would be located pate 705 Baines Se a ae : ae sAeonneltan SEER MgREt ag aera ane I [ eal | =
two computer langiges, or CLT CC CPR ELEMENT IOs HI marchers, each walking. si has counted fifteen to twen fifth tory windows, anc , ) t

7 F 20) lently with the name of a ty Davidson student who ded inaudible comment Negroes returmd them more an e
methods of instruction: FOR 1620 the basement of i a eee satis faa ae Fridas Pner Ws (Hie PAM ROA ATE TEATOUIDAY aneathanewhiless 7 : / -5
TRAN IV and COBOL. The Chambers Building ; edited ; : Le piesa ie aes : W n [ a 10n

. 1 me around his neck, had been about forty who were pre idson were croSsing the brid When the march was over . -
ae Dene OUI A ea aa The college hought the going ‘on since 6 p.m. on ent for Saturd ys nrarel f n unmarked helicopter the Dayidson students split By GRAY | ee id :
iG erp Oh earn ee IBM compute rin 1962, assist Thured: , v.13 1 Id nd_ rally reled overhead wooping up. Peter Hobbie went to pa S WILSON . ees
and no COBOL at-all. rae Es Ra S aat Thur day, Noy. 13, ant would = and rally verhead, 1 . 1 Staff. Writer

Hacnmintad diteinag usta ed U9 specie UA eOUY continue until early Saturday Marshals with greet dewn clo over the ‘head visit, several member ol Ee = :

aawa-F oaks the National Science Founda orning band sefed **Mobe of the pam] One marchetr Congre bit Tound-none_ of f junior Tom: Maxwell ha
dents ‘ dy com! tion “We, look’ pretty square shal oni 1 the 1 da the helicopt fro ther inv thelfeoffice Other +4—\WwRA Davidson's firs
se INE NE ato Other { that Ste around here, d6én't we? tly. yo ul de the 82nd Airborn Division tudents Went to teach-ins o1 campt 4 ae will be a. pri
nae i tf é ie ae phensor nd’ Robert 1id ioked Hobbie. Hair ranged i) the i N. ( i 7 wkshop - a fi Lee ee
2 a ; ’ Raa ep tl new tem will offer from medium to very long shals we court ty calihe chine ooked up friends going to
‘neal . , book include and included numerous friz n thanked tl I dded et the capital, and I phan to have the sta

zag tion up before, Christmas, if
j TeNe IM. ° * 7 sc possible sid Maxgell I
2 : y 2 Sea AA SL, at my di
- poset-ineqttiy t—xetda—thae i
Area Exams: After The Fall, What: cee
. a ? 9 ter,”’

: JON FULLER _ ED. NOTE: At the request of THE DAVIDSON- MAX POLLEY i Na ao mn are
IAN, two faculty members have submitted their views riends, is goit » broad WEN WELC
AT oe on the recent demise of area exams and the conse Regression ie Nee al a cl eraar considers station
A New Start quent prospects for educational reform. ; ; OAe providing -entertainment 1s
4 "3 A ; yess ‘Wy : s wishes to

Among the educ ational. in classroom situations. so peaeerie mie Te ee atticter eee I am disappointed with the As a faculty we have not express it. ‘‘We're doing it DesLpO ee Its say
novations proposed under the ane EeeOEG of pAceers in facilty last week’and to he appointed by President faculty decision to reject the been flexible enough nor for fun. There will be no set ; Potala a te vas
Blue Sky program, which we such traditional educational Samuel R. Spencer Jr. ! EPC report on area studies imaginative enough to break program, nor will there be oe te ae : Rag se phe
have so far attempted to put patterns is one of the obsra Dr. Max E. Polley, Professor of Bible and Relig‘on. While it was undoubtedls out of the conventional cur- any set hours for broadcast ay pene hana but - aah
into practice, area exams ABU OID BDYCDINE BGs is a member of the EPC. Jon W. Fuller, Assistant the intention of some faculty riculum pattern. In this the ing Bray bees ihe fae
were the most daring. Their ently. For some, it 1s 4 Professor of Political Science, has spoken out in favor members to create a situa faculty has let the students The radio will operate on for the present. Another op-
rejection by the faculty last styong argument , agpinst of restructuring educational programs away from tra- tion in which more change down. the AM broadcast band. It tion, known as Carrier Cur-
week raises serious questions tampering further with a pro- ditional patterns. ; could occur, the actual result I see the following disad efit TEKS Gy GRD Ge Gall rent, involves broadcasting
about the future of any fur- gram=which=has/-been=both parate fields of study and ~ depended too much on fam of the faculty action is to advantages to the faculty de- letters, and the frequency over an extensive series of

ther educational innovation

at Davidson.

Although the faculty, at the
same time it suspended area
exams, created a committee
to make a new study and
new proposals, we cannot ex-

comfortable and rewarding.

But for others, there is a
disquieting sense that me-
thods which have been suc-
cessful in the past will not
be adequate to meet future
needs.

Specialization, «which has

specialization.

Further, some of the know-
ledge which will be needed to
cope adequately with such
problems is not yet avail-
able. If our graduates are to
make effective contributions

iliar techniques of prescrib-
ed reading and examination
¢o arouse the support of those
students and faculty who
were already aware of the
limitations of traditional ed-

, ucational patterns.

return to a rather conyention-
al program. |

I believe that some form of
area studies apart from the
regular course requirements
isan integral part of
Blue Sky program, but the
present 3-3-3 system will

the |

cision to discontinue, at this
time, wotk beyond that re-
quired in courses:

1, The, present 3-3-3
gram for all freshmen
sophomores is extremely in-
flexible. The EPC report had
the virtue of providing both

pro-
and

has not yet been determined
Maxwell believes that - he
can have the equipment in-
stalled and functioning in
one day, just as soon as he
has the time.
Says Maxwell,
been — kicking

“We
around

have
the

underground cables which
have been installed at Da-
vidson for a number of pur-
poses in the future.

This option has been de-
cided on for the present be-
eause it is economical and
is affected by~few  restric-

' to their ciety, they must y. p sarie time, thé un- - Tater: +. AT 5; .
pect much to result from been a logical response to =f Mf y phate ee - make such studies impossi- faculty and «Students with a idea of a campus radio for tions.
“ if a ey be aware of the artificiality certainty and the threat im- ws fae ; ; rey a long time. Perhaps this Dobbs said that Carrier
that commiftee’s efforts un- the ‘knowledge explosion, rep. ri " ble at this time. variety of teaching-learning ~
% aS = of traditional disciplinary plied by any requirement : , stimulus will create some Current would be used to
less we understand why this is not sufficient to deal with ‘ Ata ‘ In fact, I fear that the en- experiences. ; ; F i
fi - failed, and why eat aliticult: tontem boundaries, and thef must outside familiar classroom : Lae . a fadcheWonid. Have action in other circles. prove that WDAV' can _ be-
. S ie ; ys "@ " surric has 2S! U ave ; “ vie
rst effort fai it pone our Be ib 3 acquire the techniques patterns provoked..fear and - tire hew—-cucricu a ne re me ar eets The idea of a_ legitimate come a profitable and to
we should want to try again. POPBEY Doerr tet ws at needed to continue to learn hostility from others. been jeopardized by this ac: had the oppbetunit sat ak: campus radie station, name- ‘” give the students a radio-as
The Davidson faculty are The quality Of ‘life in our ‘after they leave a tradition- s tion. ‘Faculty and students ing .a’ new. interdisciplnary ly WDAV, was fostered in soon as possible. Comple-
well-prepared to teach-¢heir cities, the dangers to our en classroom environment. The Area Studies Programs have spent four years at team-taught COUPE Ana ARES February, 1967, but the first tion of the Carrier Current
respective disciplines, and vironment from pollution, the Thus there seems to be a proposed by the Educational tempting to design a new exam (radically revised in SRURFAM asia cone ia Bindkad Gale inh kee
they have a tine record of confusion about/meaning and clear need to add a new di- Policy Committee, offered curriculum. form), and a_ project—now over the air at Davidson. more sections. of conduits
ccess in their teaching. purpose in our lives, the dan- mension to .our educational a range of options for stu- What we have to show fer he must take a regular Ed Dobbs, who has work- are laid, thus linking up the
oe ries dents- are ‘also |se- gerous eanflicts among hu- program which will specifi- dents, and this was certain- the effort is a new calendar course, ed to bring WDAV on the entire campus.
seh aly ee ite ae} man beings divided «on both cally encourage learning out- ly a step in the right direc- and new course require- 1 believe both faculty and air since the project began, The Carrier Current will
rakes atthe : trated skill racial and national lines - - side the limits of traditional tion. , ments. “The mountain has students would have benefit- explained that there have we replaced eventually by a
of their coma fe e cific all these are problems which courses. Any program for learning “Jabored and |produced a ed from these different ap- been severdl technical and complete FM stereo band,
ane radon cut across traditionally se- The area exams program (See FULLER, Page 6) mouse.” (See POLLEY, Page 6) financial delays which haye which will cost over $5,000.
in es F : 3

. disciplines
