y

M1)

| Touring Ladies -
‘Test Foglemen

— o~

Bie Bautdaniiate April 13, 1968 Par

American Know-How, Swedish Finesse And A Sunny Day

® Five

e
, ‘ é the badkground, a
‘a Whitty ROTE students enmeshed in
forga alomment of ihe por milltary secilon at the college j
{iocuait ip Hie tonnis courts Teosday to withnss the Oarwld- - y
top tearls team piny Jennig — with somo lavaly epponentty: '
Four 94 the warn parlieloante In the Chartoyie bavita-
, dtumal Tonals Tournament pleased the lac gar-Lhon ior ital
cron witt (botr Inww-baw and tlnesse
r Parlieipating in Wie ovhtislitan with tha Davidson lenin: .
wore MBs EFathy ann Hagan, 1elh ranking U.S. weman?
Lativs DuPont of Charlotte; anel (wo fopranling Swedish
7 aicie, Keistinn Sandburg, ramkud first, and Mirgactli +
Stanbarg, ranked Med.
¢ 5 ‘ doubles Enid
Tho girts participated fa beth singles and
petlton, with Davideors Woody Fauth. tanging Fiss Hogan ,
ve | da Ihe featured singles match, 6-4, b:4_ .
ay ‘. At lalt, (iss Hogan delivars a serve In ber miatels with "
: ~ : Faulk, whieh che ted vatil Faulk fatlled, “
clon tron ”
At rlaht Rusty Lowrence takes some inetru
~~ Miss Standberg in thelr mixed doubles match, while at — , ) ;
the for right, Miss Sandberg applies a bit af finesse to a
hrackhond retuen of a Harlan Doy shot. {Stalt Photes by =. — <=
Davidson.) | ee —
ma}.
Scott Ends Month- Lon 4
| & Seare
° 9
a
of n As C oach
. jr
aed By BOB DUNHAM he scott sald that ie wer nee ve ee emcee
i Editor-in-Chie! 1 nd at he rar not veloped
, dding that assistants would Fle met Brown while work-
-% ra month of searching B ULL Ti y ; a .
fon replacement for Lefly be arriving soon. He was on ing on his inaster’s degree
, To Drivsell the athletic office whl campus yesterday for an in at Carolina. iaentve
7 ae tute yesterday named Larry . " aidaiamaaiideied terview. Carolina he Aner lenving
~ Brown to fill that position. playoffs in California and WZ, named AILACE_ Brickels hrs served for two years as a high schaal coach
vs Brown, who had expressed = ee! with the Davidton team In 1964 he P Aced the Ameri «Yeas as the assisiant couch — in Columbus. Ohlo, where he
is Interest in the job soon after us Soon us tbh plnyoffs are can Olympl team to a gotd at Rice, vat ap en impressive 81-94
| Driesell announced his de Concludes. medal, Wad was selected A graduate and vn varsity record.
cision tu go to the Univer The 510 Brown is nol 3 most VO"-sable player yn the performes’ at Miami of Ohio, Both Brown and Brickels
sity of Maryland, is current rookie at coaching. He spent Olympic trials. Por two years —-Brickel« is nlso short and are familiar with high school
ly a starting puard with tho 2 Seats us an assistant onder =e pin sed with the Goodyear = WK oiso guard, At 58 be material, and sre expected
" Onkland Oaks of the Ameri: Dean Smith at Cardlina be: AAU team, both yearn being = Weched the size to be a top to be able ta salvage David-
tan Baskethall Assucittion. fore entering profunsional «= named AAU All Amerignn, = Sollee player, bot fas cee sen's receulting far this peor
eee ea nkule ven asked if be thought hte epee amony ceathee D e ]] B e ©
; 5 top 4 _ Bo Brickuls : ;
ee — = - Moke te nresanny sarin that meeruiting wodld be a = aernss the couniry I 1€8e uil ing
es mer problem thir gene te MeGuire commented an

THE MAGICAL,

tt looks Silke the ely Ire sullan used fo
rub fo cause his gonie toweprar, Inlaid stone
In a potd setilong with ‘tne six mystical
stars surrounding TL Gal ‘ive truth ts thot
i} lees mut belong to any wellan. 1) beborge

MYSTICAL STAR-STUDDED RING

{o fiike Maloy, and ithe nine other Alt-
Americans named by Leok mogaaine, The
ting-was especialiy designed as a mamanio
for ‘ff star loam.

in che assdetant coaching
pasition al Rice Oniversdty -

Brown, 28. thy farmer stil’
fur the Univecsity of Perth
Marcina. au pliyiiie currently
with die Onke In dre ABA

Early Acceptance Students
Include Sports Prospects

flon in the 160 th. weight

4 tuspects Tor Lie nen:
Hiaaeas clnus Jom wintet. Parker

subsidized aparts at David

he. Pave Siaveiotes from Si.
dutwr N, ¥., placed seonnd

Conferenee. und idrd wram
tll state selection, ‘The ather

yephied in the newaiive “Stu
dente interested fn Dayldaan
WIT AUT) be snlerested in Da
vida when T arrive,”

Bapressing great enti
suse. Beiwn suid from Cat-
Oiriie “It uestefal ta he
chucking 4 qt échool Jee
adivis © Tespeuted, and I bine
thay we can carey on ly thin
sume srsidition,”

Brown Ais reorutted at
Carolin by Frank MeGuire.
recently named ACC Conch
at dhe Year at South Can
lian Fb plaved fir ben pears
wader McGuire, ane complet-
ri his plav at UNC onder
Dean Sonali, the current Tar

Brown's role 92 Davidaon,
“Ac har tramendots cunnec
Vonks He will be gtrong rie
emnting competition foe me
AL Seat Caralina sund sitio
toc North Cnaeution. We’. 0
Very pupaler veune mn *

His Glytmpic cnoch, Hrtry
Tha, taid “He's 9 werk dedi-
bated yeuiia men and at Moree.
computiior He Khan: banicet
bull and det along well with
Afie playeTs and poaply te guia
eral!

Dovidma Aifdetie Dire
fr. Tens Scot who ninde the
Fito] decision. said "Wa are
very furtmiie fo wet oman
Hkt Lares There {s to gate:

Maryland Hopes

In Wis efforts ti paoke- the
Unlewrslty cil Marvknne | the
UCLA af the Enst Const,"
lurmer Duvidaon basketbril
vudch Lesty Diesel! has enn
loved seme unusual inches,
dind they have prid ott.

In responne tua fall patie
4d in the Wastiaciun Post,
which pletured four Wah
seheot brakethall standour.
and the caption We wont
yuu att the Universit, of
Maryland,” one of the stars
has sivned and twa uthers

Ona of the four, howernpr,
wie pursuaded hy Sentai
Edward Konaedy tw titted
Hovcard instead, ; ,

The one Hane Atm far
ayant damed O'Brien, a ym
lie: aeorer tram d..e
Atutrt High Sehud) to Rabb
Charch. Va.

D'Beven. 67, as tamed
this year as the Ootetandiing
Plager in Virginia, where hie
Wilts 4 Undnimam pick for the
aiberate team,

The leading scorer tt the

son tool, n turn for the het- calied bun a “sreal pros- in Mutt 174 Ih. class of the bare avi 4 Washing Heel mentor ten mbour bin nbd jidde. of are fairly certain = abut State this year, he broke
fier as the earls akcepineve nn sae an le ™ _ His cemor year Brown wie the game.” Marylant, avery one of Sturt’: -seoring
iets were posted. Jeff Dunsanaky trom Leo- The presiér trackman of pocorde.

Wrestling. track und tennis tin, N. J, was another high these nceepted is easily According ta the Athletic

appear to have tap talent
coming in next year’s frezl
‘man tas of the bove wh
jive been weeepled do came
40 Davidson

Conch Charles Parker has

ne paeite rhe “eens Bett Kirkpateick, abe  — pte -nquad. By STEVE NEWSOME with VAGL Lawrenee drap- Atlanta, only one maich this year, EVINRUDE
sau in met yeat. Busty fram Nustville, would hare Teme eoch Henth Whittle Sporls Writer ped bis mumber ane singles The sew number one play = ind Day has styed wut in 8 Horsepower
Winchester from Saitspury, een the champtim in the multed Barker vn “arent run Th an effort to find a win match ta Paul Dictineon, & 3, er. Rusty Lawrence, han wevernl recent matches, (n- ‘Molor
uM tand, wis district charm 137 Ub, clase but was iooligh- ner” But also said that he nim combination, anc thue 63, ina well fougitt match, teen a befabt spat in play s6 cluding his wie aygninst MIT":

aryinn strenitthen hu. enna vent’ In another strennthenine number fide cunt, 692-351)

1 17

-

}y recruited prospect, Daman:
dky was the National Prep
Champion in the 123 Ib. lass.
BIN Devenport from Nav-
dite, Tenn, finished srennd
an the Tennessee atate tourn-
amet.

a.

(Guorge Burkert of Knagvitle.
‘Barker cnn a $:22.9 mile last
ear as a juator. His lop time
ate the tar mile run was 282,
vie 4s Southern = Invithonsl
Cuamplon and war pelected
foe the NaGonn! Junlar Olym

had seholarslip otfurs trom
Portmesth and Tetrnessev.
afett Aflender, Gary Sith
and Jim Compbell are all
distance and crow country’
ten an well, Campbell lane
yevaludl n 10.55 two mille,

Peed Polsson ard George
Thoms are doth experienced
sprinters. Hottie Sumit
runs the ANN and Aleta
Wilson bas run fo the anil
relay ond the burdles.

Tenols conch Harry Bog ber
mun has alko had some top
peospicis accepted. dtm
Gaines af Covingtan, Georgin,
was singles champion in his
sonferente Inst season. Ball
Koch fram Little Hock. Ark,
ls ranked [treat tn the ainte
bmont high school ployers
tm third in the aven’s divi-
xion.

The taseball toam hay tw
ton plavers, Davia, wha wus
MhMosahe In Philododjtela.
pal David Griffitha. Grittilles
le an Americnn Lealon all-

Fogleman Shuffles Tennis Ranks
To Increase Tournament Hopes

chenoe. ta repeat a the
Seuthern Conference ctam:
Riuns, Conch Harry Fogle.
man shulfled his MWrenp this
week, and the result was on
8-1 travacing of VMI

The team has suffered
three straipiht set backs be-
fore Foplerian turned the
Shuffle. The losses enme at
the hands of MIT, Harvard
and Witham and Mary,

In the new Ulne-up, top play.
er Woody Faulk wast moved
into the recond slot, second:
raied Randy Jones wan xhiti-
ed into the numer  theve
osliion, and thicd-secdiut

Rusty Lawrence ons ndvnoe-
ed two enals fio the cue.
her anv spot.

Jn

Wadeesday's match

SAVE ‘Breaking in’
Why suffer ihe discem-
fort af “Braaking In” a
new palr gf shoes? — thal

move. Pouloman tinyed an
phomore Jim Cantrell into
the number six gpot aquirst
VT.

The defending Southern
Canference chatupion in the
qumber flee partian, Can
trell has been sidelined this
season with monanicleasis,
and ix just now returning Ww
play. By tho Ume the con-
fercnee lourpament ix phiy
ed, Cantrell may be maved
up a puuttion or two.

He won his aimgien and
noble; competition di the
VMI match guide battle,
aod will ga again thin after.
oon vhen the furzheltlers no
aaiinst Emory University in
Allantn and — tamocroy
mpalnst Oylethor~e, flno Ja

dar this year As a supine
rote, Lawrence has shown.
real dtiprovement.

Ths wi Lawrence’, {ret
year of competitive Lennik
alner he began Inzh school,
Jaraely becnuse of his other
athletic role as a starting
end on the fouthall team.

In this year's Southern
Canferenoe Tournamert, ta
be bel! Alay 8-10 ut the has.
tile vourts of The Citndel,
Lawrence will face aame of
the roughest competition that
We number one singles com-
petition tas provided an re
cent yearn.

Harlan Day, in the owme
bee four slot, ond Al Varner
do five will raune out thet
singles Itne up for Engh
maaitt's leam., Varner has Love

One-fourth Pound Hamburgers

The

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

FOR SATURDAY SUPPER

Depariment nt the university,
fav other bays pictured 1

the ad have indfeated tnt
they wD! accept Maryland
svhalnrships.

Mondoy—Friday

Hub

pick up a box or a

buckot thin waehend

a Ham On Jewish Rye

old pale, alitl good, can be

star catcher. He in from Tron rebuill like new! BRING
FRESHMEN PACE CINDER TEAM ton, New dersey. "eM {Ht |
Ray Smatenburg, shown bare clearing 2 burdh, Is ene Despite the nhrence of any |] WE REPAIR SHOES | WILDCAT DEN COLONEL SANDERS” RECIPE
ot the two freshmen wis clreently eentrol the hepes of the opacher mt abl, the tanket EXPERTLY ; chy Fried hicken
Deviitoon track team. Swetenhurg runs hurdivs, tong jumps fell teu ala have bw er McKISSICK’S Pizzo & Spa ghetti e
ond triste jimype for the squid. Another frashmoa, Tommy pects anmag Ucst noouptod, SHOE SHOP
Richnrdoan hae paced tite inam in Ibe sprints in alding sopho = iru Hobyood. 64, WO. was Moln Streat V2 530-11 503 S. Broad Mocrasville, N.C. Phone 664-1505

an all sectional, Alb Wosturn

Dovidson, terth Corotina
Poursyivnnin Interachulastic-

The gatr, alang with the ruel ef the fanm,.
weet weielognd’s Davitison Kelays,

more Wel Lyan,
+ in busy preparing for

