A weekly college newspaper
must try to balance the interests
“ of students with standards of pro-
$ fessional journalism. This report
explores those conflicts and
triumphs which go into the making
of The Davidsonian.

|

sa.

Bob Kirby is the print shop’s full-time
linotype operator. He's responsible for
whatever is right about newspaper copy

How The Davidsonian Operates

TRANSFERRING WRITING INTO LEAD

and, we'd like to think, for whatever's
wrong with it. Managing Editor John Mc-
Lean points out corrections to be reset.

By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

It used to be “The’News And Edi:
orial Voice Of Davidson College Stu-
dents.”

But if you looked closely at the log-
otype at the top of last week’s DA-
VIDSONIAN, you would have seen
that it is now. “The Newspaper Of
Davidson College Students.”

That epithet is only the most recent
stage in the curious odyssey of the
DAVIDSONIAN tradition.

The changes in the motto have par-
alleled changes in the editorship. the
college, and even in the times.

At one time they tried to call it
“The News. And Editoria! Voice Of
Davidson,” but the town objected.

So they changed it to “The News
And Editorial Voice Of Davidson Col-
lege.” But after a couple of issues the
college administration was up in arms,
and the motto had to be changed
again.

They finally arrived 2t “The News
And Editorial Vbice Of The Davidson
College Student Body.” And so it stay-
ed for many years.

Not that anyone pays much atten-
tion to the mottv. But at least one
glaring error was picked up by a loyal
DAVIDSONIAN reader or two.

Whether by plan or by accident.
one fine morning THE DAVIDSONIAN
hit the dorms bearing the masthead:
“The News And Editorial Voice Of
The Davidson College Stud.”

That one still hangs over the news
desk in the DAVIDSONIAN office. It
has been there longer than anyone
connected with the paper, and will
likely remain long after.

Since those days, however, the
masthead has omitted all pretense of
‘being the “news and editorial voice”
of anyone—except the editors. ;

Franklin Anderson, present coedi-
tor-in-chief, explains that although
students “feel in a special way that
it is their newspaper” and theirs to
control, a newspaper cannot be the
voice of anyone but itself.

Students do have “control” of the
paper in that as much as they lect its
editor each year, but, Anderson says,
the paper would be denying its pur-
pose if it sought to protect one group
or another named. in the masthead.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, in its 58th
year, represents one of the longest
unbroken traditions of any institution
on campus.

That fact. and the fact that it is
thus regarded by off-campus readers
as somehow being the canon record
of all campus affairs, imposes a unique

iar —_:
I pt.

v

A Se wey

\
\.

Ee.

FOR LOVE OF PRINTER'S INK
“Once printer's ink gets in your blood, It
never washes out,” goes the old saw.
Franklin Anderson, coeditor-in-chief, switis
the intoxicating brew in the unlikely prac-
tice of resetting incorrect tines in 8 story.

MAY 2, 1969

PAGE THREE

"The Bavidsonian REPORT

responsibility on newspaper staffers.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is probably
the “best signal for the Trustees,”
says Anderson, “of what students are
thinking and doing.”

It is nevertheless a fact — indeed
somewhat of a tradition—that THE
DAVIDSONIAN disagrees with, and
even flaunis, studcnt: cpinien. in its
editorial stands.

This is a particular source of ten-
sion. for, as Anderson says, DAVID-
SONIAN readers feel that the news:
paper is theirs, and they tend to take
what is printed in it in a personal
way.

“We realize that we step on people
sometimes,” Dunham eplained, ‘‘but
that is sometimes unavoidable and al-
so unintentional.”

The paper tries not to hit individ-

uals who are making constructive ef-
forts. But we do attack policies which
are unfair, wrong, cr incompatible
with the purposes of the college.

THE DAVIDSONIAN tries to live
up to professional standards. modi-
fied, of course, by the fact that stu-
dents print it. “That is to say,” An-
derson explained, “that there are cer-
tain minimum standards below which
we will not fall, and we will stay up
till. five in the morning if necessary.”

Anderson pointed out that one of
the main obstacles to the goal of pro-
fessionalism is lack of cooperation by
the sources of stories. “People are
afraid of what we’ll print,” Anderson
said, and instead of telling the whole
story they sometimes hold back in-
formation.” .

This makes the reporter suspicious

or even hostile to his source, a con
dition which leads to greater unrelia-
bility in the news reporting.

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits—and
gets—criticism of itself in letters to
the editor. “We work to correct the
errors pointed out,” Dunham said.
But he went on to say that much criti-
cism exaggerates the faults of the
newspaper to the extent that the crit-
ic misses the paper's good points.

“Sometimes after the paper has
come out, I’m more disappointed than
anvone: else on campus.” Dunham
said. Many deviations from the pro-
fessional standards we have chosen
come because there is a large turn-
over in staff, and reporters cannot,
obviously. spend all their time report-
ing.

It is in pursuit of these ideals and
in spite of personal. animosities that
inevitably develop that those who
work on THE DAVIDSONIAN find
both their greatest disappointments’.
and their greatest rewards.

Reporters’ Travails Retold

By PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editor

“You're a lousy reporter.”

Somewhat sheepishly, I replied,
“Huh?”

The subject of my interview re-
peated, “I said you are a lousy re
porter.”

That was the beginning of my DA-
VIDSONIAN career. My first interview
was a failure. My subjects surprising
opening remarks upset me so much
that the story was never written,
much less published.

It was the beginning of The Agony
and The Agony.

Not every DAVIDSONIAN reporter
has such a dismal beginning, but soon-
er or later we all develop a terrible
complex.

The first stage of the complex va-
ries. for person to person, but is char-
acterized by an attack (usually verbal)
on the young, innocent freshman who
was foolish enough to volunteer to
write on assigned topics with neither
monetary nor ego-reward compensa-
tion.

As I have indicated, my own first
stage was extraordinarily traumatic.
For most reporters the first stage is
simply the disappointment of non-ap-
preciation.

Occasionally people mention the
freshman's first byline but it comes in
the same sort of tone you use when
you sav, “Hmmm. I see you have a
wart.” :

At any rate, the first stage consists
of the freshman reporter's first doubts
about the worth of his efforts at jour-
nalism.

The second stage of the DAVID-
SONIAN reporter comolex is his first
encounter with the editors.

You are told either “This lead is
weak” or “I don’t think this is quite
what we want.” The reporter’s reac-
tion, naturally is to grab a dictionary
to determine the meaning of this ex-
tremely professional-sounding journal-
istic jargon.

As Cool Hand Luke once said.
“What we have here is a failure to
communicate.”

Usually the story gets rewritten
several times and everybody is rela-
tively satisfied — not with the story,
but with their feeling that they were
right in the first place.

The intermediate phase between
the second and third stages comes as
the next Sunday night rolls around
and that delightful white card inscrib-
ed with your next assignment wafts
its way to your cell. [ mean, room.

This phase involves considerable
soul searching and critical self-eval-
uation to decide upon a course of ac-
tion.

The problem is to devise a plan
which will allow you to find your sub-
ject in his office, room or gym, ask

ood questions of your subject, type
it all out in a coherent form—all be-
fore the deadline, Tuesday night.

The editors demand story after sto-

b

= ee ee ee ee en i
THE SOURCE OF ALL THAT IS TRUE

THE DAVIDSONIAN staff. Probably the
greatest gathering of prose artists in the
Southeast meets for rounds of copy read-

ry after story week after week after
as Humanities reading assignments
week. Meanwhile, such trivial things
are put off until later or never.

Near reviews, themes, and exams,
the third stage of the complex is
reached: “How can I possibly get ev-
erything done?” Either the reporter
drops his title of ‘staff writer,” he
flunks out, or, by a miracle, he gets
everything done and satisfies edito,:s.
professors, parents and everyone-—but
himself.

The fourth stage of the reporter
complex is its resolution.

But this resolution may be accom-
plished only one way. The reporter
must come to realize his role as ‘‘Suf-
fering Servant.”

The reporter must retain his sensi-
tivity to issues. He cannot afford to
grow callous if he is to be a good jour-
nalist. Thus he must become the Suf-
fering Servant in a sense more pro-
found than the Religion Department
ever knew.

The reporter, now matured by the
resolution of his complex, must still
grow as he is continuously taught by
experience of the imolications of the
Suffering Servant role.

The Suff-ah-reporter is often sub-
ject to vicious criticism.

“I think you people ought to have a
little more responsibility,” a profes:
sor told me on the phone. For writing
about students arrested on marijuana
charges, he called me and my editor
“callous, immoral, irresponsible.”

Robbie Hooker. then editor, shrug-
ged and said. “We operate on certain
principles, and some people just don’t
Share those principles.”

(Since that time, the professor has

ing and championship lay-out in the “Tues-
day and Wednesday night ordeals.’’

withdrawn his charges, but they illus-
trate the conflicts that arise.)

In addition to. gearing the burden
of attacks on his own reporting, the
reporter is often condemned by way
of guilt by association (see first para-
one seems to have the answers; o1 if
graph of Dr. Alan B. Brinkley’s letter,
April 25 issue).

When the editorial or feature pages
run something on a controversial is-
sue, the reporter is assailed for that
with which he had nothing to do.

The Daylight Savings Time fiasco
resulted in more ribbing than my
Queens computer date.

Another problem for the reporter
is the search for meaning—not in the
universe, but just in Davidson.

“We are interested that you are in-
terested that we are interested in the
matter.” is a typical response from
some of the Powers That Be.

“No comment,” is the response of
others.

There are plenty of questions, but
no one seems to have the answers; or
if they do they wont’ give them to
you.

Why does anyone bother with such
an unsatisfying activity?

In the first place, it is not always
unsatisfving. Despite bruises earned
in the process, it is satisfying to dig
into a particular subject and to pub-
lish one’s findings.

Perhaps a masochistic tendency
leads one to reporting.

Nevertheless, first-rate reporting is
the prerequisite of a first-rate news-
paver. I do not mean to suggest that
THE DAVIDSONIAN is always deserv-
ing of that status, but its reporters
try.

t

a an al

WHERE THE WORK GETS DONE
Wallace Twombly. Without Wally THE OAVIDSONIAN
would not come out each week. With 24 years of experience
on THE DAVIDSONIAN and “The Mecktenburg Gazette’,
he directs the print shop ordeal on Thursday afternoons and,
inevitably, nights. (Staff Photos by Davidson.)

Old Editors

Never Die...

By ROBBIE HOOKER
Former Editor-in-Chief we.

Criticized, scorned or, worse, ignored during their

college careers. most DAVIDSONIAN editors have
gone on to cut a rather impressive swath in life.
_ Teachers, doctors, journalists. businessmen—that
is what has become of most editors. Eleven of them
have even wound up in ‘“‘Who’s Who,” more than twice
the number (five) of student body presidents who have
made it.

When THE DAVIDSONIAN first appeared on April
1, 1914, it was with the resolution to “lead, not lag.
It (the paper) should mould, not be moulded by the
sway of campus opinion It should stand for the best.
things in every line. This may necessitate occasionally
a firm but kind criticism.”

And ever since then, editors have been doing just
that. More or less.

Most of the editors are still writing. When Dr. Chal-
mers G. Davidson, director of the college library, wrote
recently to all of them with a request for money to
have the paper put on microfilm, he received checks
—and comments—from some two dozen.

He also apparently set some of the old editors to
reminiscing—.and joking.

“I well remember the day when we talked about
plans for the paper in old No. 7 Rumple (located on
the site of the present Little Dorinitory),” one of the
first editors wrote.

Said an editor of the ‘20s, who sent along a gener-
ous check: “I surely would hate to think of those pre-
cious words of wisdom I wrote way back there not be-
ing preserved.”

And again: “When I think of the superb quality
of the prose of the mid-fifties, it is obvious it should
never be lost to history!” |

And finally: “In my opinion, the preservation of
these less than immortal creations of immature minds
would be useful only for the writers of ‘Laugh-In.’ I
long ago cavne to the conclusiun that, using present
day college admission standards, I would be turned
down by Slippery Rock Teachers College and would
be accepted only by East Jefferson County Commun-
ity College (on probation).

“The ringing and vivid editorials urging students
to keep off of the grass or to preserve the columns of
Old Chambers should probably be interred along with
the rest of us.”

One former editor had some brickbats for his more
recent predecessors. “It might be just as well if the
issues of the past 10 years were lost forever.” he said.

_But one of those same editors saw it differently.
Said he, “Twenty years from now friends, alumni and
students will look back and realize that those wild
young hellions were right after all.”

Not many DAVIDSONIAN editors have stayed in
the writing line. James K. Batten (1956-57 editor) is
now with the Washington bureau of the Knight News-
papers, and Aubrev N. Brown Jr. ('28-'29) is editor of
“Presbyterian Outlook"—but they seem to be the ex-
ception.

Most, in fact, have turned to academic or medical
careers. A number are teaching and sport MD’s.

A few are in business—Boyce F. Martin (27 '28),
for example, is president of a cement company—and
one, the most famous of all. actually got the chance
to do what all DAVIDSONIAN editors try to do: run
the college. That is probably whv the staff has named
its annual award for the best freshman reporter in
honor of D. Grier Martin (41-’32). college president
from 1958 to last year.

The activities of recent DAVIDSONIAN editors are
varied. Ervin Duggan (’60-’61), for example, was actu-
ally only an associate editor, but his contributions to
the editorial column led one reader to complain in a
letter to the editor that the paper had halitosis.

Apparently Duggan's krack for solemn (some would
say ridiculous) pronouncements helped him land a job
as a speech writer for Lyndon B. Johnson while he
was in the White House.

John Todd (’65-'66) j- still preaching—but from be-
hind a pulpit instead of the editor’s desk. He served a
church in Wiimington this year and returns in the fall
to seminary.

Louis Lesesne (’66-67), noted in his year for rous-
ing the ire of athletes and fraternities, will shortly be
contending with the Viet Cong—hopefully with a Navy
administrative desk between him and them.

Sam Boyte ('67-’68), meanwhile, will shortly have
to come out from behind the security of the Union desk
and don the olive drab as a lieutenant in the Signal
Corps. He has been assistant director of the College
Union this year.

And Charlie Dibble (’64-’65)? Well, the last time
anybody saw Charlie was in Tehran, Iran—a stopover
as he circles the globe, a pack on his back, writing
newspaper dispatches.
