0 The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILL-

INGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT !S HAPPENING.”

—Marshall McLuhao

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly, at, Davidson, N. C.

28036 by students of Davidson College during
the school fear. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all cor-—

respondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N, C. 28036.

PAGE TWO

JANUARY 9, 1970

Green Grow The Rushes

Caught up in the Rush?

Why not take a moment out from
your trips to the smile factories, lay
down the biased literature you have
received, and in your detachment con
sider the ludicrous spectacle taking
place before your eyes.

What you will find, if you are
American by nature, is two opposing
factions, but it is not quite as clear-
ly defined as the effete snobs versus
the silent majority dichotomy.

In fact, the sides are not exactly
cJarified, with a number of disenchant-
ed people in both factions.

When the fraternity man_ says,
“There is a great sense of unity in
this house,” he is most likely lying.

In turn, when the independent tries
to attach labels to the fraternities,
he speaks from a distorted and un-
knowing viewpoint, and this ignorance
and bias leads to an equally untrue
conclusion. ' ° ”

Numerous fraternity men are un-
happy with the present system, say-
ing “fraternities probably are not the
best thing for Davidson,” but unable
to come up with a viable alternative,

cial life for Davidson, couldn’t even’=
reach agreement on the fraternity
issue,

With little prospect for a Trustee
edict in thig area, it would be a good
idea for the Interfraternity Council
to join forces with a body of indepen
dents in order to determine a better
system.

The dialogue begun last year ovei
the fraternity’issue was excellent, but
it faded too quickly, and the frater-~
nities, with a few-notable exceptions,
ettled down onee again into comfort
able slumber.

And it seems clear that the’ same
issue is going to produce much the
same result again this year.

It is time for someone to, initiate
the action. fs ae

It won't’ be accomplished by dirty-
rush booklets distributed by the in-
dependents. ‘
e It won’t be accomplished by the
shallow concern cleverly painted on
the faces of rush-minded fraternity
men,

It hasn’t, and probably won't be,
effected by the arbitrary decision of
a fraternity to disaffiliate with nation-

PPC: Here They Come Again!

SLATE DS RRA ISTE STE RE aS

Gush Week

wy
ROBERT §F
PYEATT i

Your columnist feels qualified to write about
Gush Week, since he has survived it for three pre-
vious years, the first year sniffing around fraternity
basements and furnace rooms, the second pushing a
gluey smile and a limpid handshake though a room-

full of cliches, and

the third washing crystal and

mixing punch in a deserted kitchen.

From this

Week appears in all

glory: it is surely in the same cate-
gory as the old traditions of apple
pie, motherhood, raccoon coats and
white powdered wigs. Atavistic and
undaiinted, let us Gush on.

One of the more revealing things
about Gush is the language it in-
Herewith follows a selection
from the columnists’ clouded mem

spi es.

ory:
“Good
(ca, 1967)

perspective,

Gush
dubious

PYEATT

(guy). Likes to go to Hattie’s.”

“I just don’t think I could ever call this—guy

my brother.’’

“When you get a bid from this: fraternity, that
means you are 100 percent acceptable to everybody

down. here.’’’

“John; I’m Joe Clodd. Glad to have you down to

ihe house.”””
“TH ball his _.

_ (posterior).”

“Have you gotten to meet all the brothers?”
“This house has a lot of diversity yet we also

have unity.”

“We'd really like to see you down here Monday
tre 8

they: normally drift along with the al offices. , sc Auk teks ot the ;
: . tus f the guys, but I'd
ais ao, vlcng enough concern must bog onanseaviuat eel, LTT PAR Reece eames a
On the other hand, the independ- the position of the other side, exam-

ent marches on in his anti-Greek

, Madly. searching for the
parson er but usually laboring
under selfish motivation, disguised

as genuine concern.

This cold war of social systems can _

go on endlessly. “
But it. doesn’t have to do so.
"Ther is some solution, and it can
begin on an individual basis. Arbitra-
tion doesn’t ‘hold much support in a
day when it has been so often -proved

ining the problem from that side, and
seoking “a mutually-suitable system
of satisfaction.

Then, on a larger scale prompted
by individual concern, a group stu-

up en, fraternity men and
independents, weigh LB pe of the
present system dyring this period

rush. Then when excitement and dis-
appointment have waned next week,

Sikes Hits College’s

iereeeet = Role In Drugs Case

To the Editor:

I write this letter in con-
cern to the attitude of Da-
vidson College toward drugs

wishes to read the trial and
they cannot be taken from
the Dean's Office-hardly a
conductive place to read

dents pay their bills and do
no physical hatm to the
school the students should

stereotypes at this house.”

see as many of you as possible back
town herexMonday night.”

you, and you're evaluating us.”

is powered something I've got a ball for

“T can't stand’this pers Maas (guy).”
“Put the sweet words on him.” «

However, contrary

40 rumor, it is not true that

IFC ‘has hired Spiro Agnew to script Gush Week dia-

logues oye bah cies
This week comes as a climax to a long
handshaking.

meeting. .

period of
-hail-fellow-well-met,

strategic hhall counselors and freshman halls, athletes,

‘ ‘ ve J A oPr v be left alone. (A notable ex-
pee pagan but it can work in this La fe tee peers we vee that = on campus. During exams a__—150 pages, of testimony. ception to this would be slick guys, flies, et al. Rush meetings, plans, charts,
TI is, indeod; a detinite schism hai Gees Ke TOA ‘Undess we student was indicted and fn! ey Connon Cess ac- academic regulations). The with faces x’ed and blackballs drawn on noses; and -

of ideas. The Commission on Social
Patterns, designed. to come to some
agreement on the best system of so-

all look for it.
And there’s no time better than
now.

ed

The Drug Questions

convicted ‘by the Regula-
tions Court for selling drugs.

He was sentenced to be
suspended for two years and
state authorities were noti-
fied, This case shows a need
for a serious look at the at-

tions and others of the Re-
gulation Court for undertak-
ing such measures and the
administration for letting
such actions continue are
putting Davidson College in
a competing category. with

school should® not be the
state government or the Fed-
eral narcotic agents or a
great moral standard bear-
er: It’s role is to introduce
students to the pursuit of
truth, not regulate their per-

don’t leave that out where any freshman might see it.

For the fraternities it is the continual drive for
status, to establish themselves as one of the good
houses, that prevents them from letting everybody
in. Nobody wants it said that some cloddy unattractive
type is his fraternity brother. All the fraternities
could tolerate some guys that they refuse to give
bids to, but they won't because that would diminish

; : ipp et ep be , 3 sonal lives. The sx 1 ; : i
titudes of the administra- Rob Jones University. . aves. The. 8 oO. their prestige, and prestige is the name of the game
ti and faculty toward : should be a place where dif- : Py sh game
jon and aculty é Let the state come in for eer i in fraternity circles.
; PEaee : arugs —-andittedal-acts-on--—jjega)’ actiong con—ttstown —— eee ome: .are_consta And freshmen need to get in for the same reason, —
Rp teecas ee a re pesca One to be pressured to incriminate them- campus. MoM RAO Ae he oe and it is important : ay
which overshadows the issues of fra- selves? ee : : ‘ Maybe ae ; a‘ :
43 + 3% : . : : atr Ss > sc se $ > é F ‘hris Sikes '72 aybe al r; ay e
ternities, subsidized athletics, and area Fourth, what is the relation between h =e ne aa ree 1 nee ikea) i Na : — ee . ; out of 4 Spe tee as CUAnE MIs, May PeaWe Te-gro wing
5 ave 2c ents an rd. As g as s avids > .
exams. A drug problem. the college, state, and federal authori- ‘ I 2 Te er ae enema cence ea cree To eee

The situation is so tangled that the
best we can do is pose some of the

ties? In aecase such as .this one, which

Involves the laws of all three, who has

who use drugs? Is the pur

pose of the school to play

But then, glad to have you down to the house.

@
more serious questions, which have jurisdiction? What aid can the col- ese hea CLD ee the .
been raised, without providing neat lege give to federal and state officials, PURDOsE {ORS INE -seeul . ul Ti
answers. and vice versa? play the part of a great ]

First there is the issue of privacy:
do the accused and the witnesses have
the right to anonimity? It seems in-
dicated by the faét that in the official
transcript all names are deleted. Those
involved in the —regulations-court

Also, in such a situation, which

“treats a nation-wide social problem
‘not restricted—to the campus, what

attitude should the college assume
toward the townspeople — families
of faculty, administration, and staff,

that
all users of drugs should be
removed -from campus be
they might

others to use drugs?

moral leader and say

cause influence

It atkes much gall on the

Haynes Presents Option

To the Editor:

the need to try to explain

years with a group of guys

of an

opportunity here t
trial of December 11-12 have, in any as well as of those unconnected with part of the school to play It's a tremendous. feeling our youthful ideals to older who are like brothers to us ec tdeaee tid nec ie
event, been denied this’ right, since the college? As the Code of Responsi- “i either the government or to realize fully the beauty of generations. and understand the way know exists, IT spent my : i
their names are widely known. bility says, ‘the use of drugs the moralistic role. For in attending a school where we And best of all, we are in we feel. term at reli ey pelea ii
| Second, just how much authority Ha age ae physical and mental so doing they are deciding can feel safe, secure and a position where basically We can finally find our University of K ¢ ag chs
does the regulations court have? Does noe toe the ous poe ie use by which laws of the state are free from the outside world. all our co-inhabitants are warm niche within David- where J completed a full
it have the power to offer immunity etree oR she peal: reaten the good laws and which habits There aren't many places alike and understand us. If son College. There is no semester's worth of credit at
to witnesses who by testifying against tiecCode 4: MED is section of of the students are moral, left where one can at last only the world were a Da- more worry about how to a fraction of the cost of Da
the accused incriminate. themselves? e Code is unique in that it does not This particular drug case close his eyes and rleax vidson College. impress a date and no more .

(Have you ever bought drugs from
the aceused?” isthe sort-of- question
which might cause acute embarrass-
ment to a witness.) Can the court, at
will, shut off the tape recorder which

provides the official transcript, as.

happened during this trial?

limit responsibility to any group of
the community: Do both town and
gown have a right to protection? ~~
Finally, there is the central problem
of drug use. Considering the current
mood of youth, some drug traffic at
Davidson may be inevitable. What is
a realistic attitude for the college to

was carried out in a gestapo-
like —style, The —convietion
was delivered at 2:30 in the
morning of the day exams
ended. The convicted's work
for the fall term might have-
been wasted. Only six copies

and will

knowing that the world can
retate on its ewn
years without his
getting involved. There is
no—longer—__the __ emotional
strain of having to confront
females every day, no long-

for four

It’s with.a sigh of relief
that we realizethat. we can
finally get away from it all
after the first ten weeks of
our. freshman year.

We can finally get away
from those guys who dis-

sweat finding some reat
guy—to_watch_the_tube_with
and eat with.

Where else can a man
find the security of a coun-
try club within a _ country
club?

vidson and in doing so ex

perienced| the advantages

~tand—disadvantagesy) of a

large university.

When I first approached
Dr.Ostwalt and-H, Edmunds
White last spring they were

Next, what rights do witnesses take toward drug abuse? Has the of the transcript exist, quite er the problem of having to agree with us or those guys Todd Hobbie ‘72 ee eae recermive: to; the
have? “No pressure shall be placed on college faced up to the problem? Most inappropriate when one con- witness the every day, oc- that are hard to get to Davidson College ee ai helped, mé get
the accused to confess or incriminate importantly, how should the college siders that they must be curences of racial and eco- know. ‘Not only that, but we To the Editor: nas the, necessary red
himself.” Is it proper for witnesses meet the problem? available to any student who nomic prejudices, no longer can grow for the next three I recently took advantage eee

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Anderson Criticizes Court’s Procedures In

%

I was able to enrol at the
University of Kentucky for
one semester. under the
heading of ‘“‘transient stu-
dent” without actually trans-
ferring from Davidson, a
program available at most

Marijuana Trial

|
To the Editor:

I wish to protest over the
procedures used and the
verdict delivered in the re-
cent Regulations Court trial
of a junior on charges of
selling drugs. The proced-
ures were in some cases un-
fair, and the evidence did
not warrant the verdict.

Procedurally, the court
dwelt’ on hearsay, with dnly
one witness, the fifth, giv-
ing any substantive — testi-
mony. Even this fifth, wit-
ness, however, warned that
‘his evidence was’ not con-
clusive, and that no police-
man would send a case to’

mony. And on the possible
exchange about which wit-

nesses testified, no second ~

person ever backed up what
a witness had said. And
never were there any speci-
fic charges of when and
where an alleged sale took
place, or of what was sold.

In short, the Regulations
Court tried a student for
being a ‘‘pusher,’’ but not
for any specific instance of
selling was there evidence
beyond reasonable doubt.

It is similar to trying
‘someone for being a murd-
erer, producing evidence
that he: probably killed sev-
eral people, and very likely

3 court. on_only. such. evidence... -one-in-particular,—but-never

as he gave.

Never in the trial” is’ a”
complete transaction be-
tween the buyer and accus-
ed seller entered in testi-

conclusively proving any..

specific case.

But a sense of justice de-
mands that™one try specific
acts, specific violations of

the law, and not reputation
and possibilities. :

The court was also caught
up in pettiness and in points
irrelevant to the case. It
questioned witnesses long
and hard*about the preval-
ence of drugs on campus, a

point quite irrelevant to
whether ‘the defendant sold
drugs.

Or witness this exchange
between a court member
and the sixth witness (tran-
script, p. 89): W-6: ‘Well,
that’s pretty common know-
ledge! I think if X knew it,

just about anyone would.” §

OM: ‘‘I’m going to tell him
you said that."
W-6: ‘Well you do that.”
This points up two serious
defects in the judicial sy-
stem. First, the court: must
‘act as prosecutor. ~With—no
one present who has the

case coherently organized
and who can question wit-
nesses to obtain the informa-
tion needed, the duty falls
to the court; in the perform-
ing of it, they cannot help”
become prejudiced. If one
doubts this, let him read
the transcript and note the
emotion and heatedness of
some exchanges.

In addition, a court chat

man, who by his election is
likely to be most influential
member of the court, has al-
ready seen the evidence be-
fore the trial and has dis-
cussed it and has at least
decided that it is sufficient
to warrant a trial.
Then he must | lead
court

the
in the questioning,

rule or objections, and in

general deal with a defend-
“ant who is likely to be quite
hostile and who is likely to

take the hostility out on the
chairman. Accordingly, the
most. influential member. of
the court is the most likely
to be prejudiced.

“Missing is the division of
prosecutor and jury. This is
an important separation, be-
cause the court doesn’t act
as defense adviser, just pro-
secutor.

Also missing is the judge
and jury separation, im-
portant because the judge
may become quite alienat-
ed from one side or the
other during the course of
the trial. The jury may be
dismissed from the room,
and at a minimum is not
a party to or arbiter of dis-
putes during the trial.

There were other problems
also. Threat of state inter-
vention prejudiced the case,
and the concern of court

members to prevent. such in-
tervention was evident in
the transcript.

Also, the court offered to
witnesses a rather question-
able immunity in return for
self-incriminating testimony.
Obviously the court . would
not go back on its own pro-
mise not to prosecute, but
a later court might reverse
policy. Or, a change in state
policy might mean court
members would « be sub-
peoned to testify that wit-
nesses admitted taking
drugs.

Finally, the court's as-
sumption that it could be
above ‘‘technicalities’’ while
indulging in the already not-
ed pettiness and irrelevan-
eies was almost hypocriti-
cal. ‘As ie the technicalities,
what the defense adviser

said handles the subject

(transcript, p. 66).

“Perhaps the judicial sy-
stem of this country is tech-
nical, but the reason that
it is technical is to protect
people who may perhaps
be innocent, and I don't
think that these technicali-
ties would exist if there were
no reason for it.’’

Later a court member re-
plied, “. . this-is not a

court of justice; this is not

an adversary proceeding.”
(transcript, p. 71)

What it adds up to, is that
the recent trial was _ not
fair, the evidence’ was not
sufficient’ for the verdict,
and the judicial. system as
now constituted would have
to have angels for court
members to provide a fair
trial.

Franklin Anderson ‘70
Davidson College

large universities.

Ever since coming to Da-
vidson as a freshman I have
had serious regrets about.
coming to such an isolated
all men's school, I now know
exactly what a large school
involves and will spend the
remainder of my time at
Davidson not looking over
my shoulder and wondering

what if I had chosen a larg-

er school:

My feelings on the two
different situations aren’t
really the point of this letter,
but. the .administration is
open to individual changes
in the curriculum and if your
scheduling permits, I strong-
ly recommend anyone to
take advantage of the idea,
if for nothing more than the
experience of a complete
change of pace.

Doug Haynes: ‘71
Davidson College,
