She Pavidsonian — February 20.1970 Page Three.

Housing In Davidson

birth enh

FACULTY HOUSING.
Within the college’s responsibility.

The Davidsonian

Report - 3
SLOAN STREET
So close to Lakeside, yet so far.

« Lakeside Park Project. .

STUDENT HOUSING OFF CAMPUS
Inexpensive if you find it, but cheap.

Rising Costs Make Housing

;
'
1 E Town Housing Need
Loans Bad For College + Kases Lown Housing Needs
By JOMN FINE ave neen Alemarby rine cH. freenreany By JOE SMITH of this meeting cooperation «ling the details of home
Associate Editor is a successful first @ffort construction and per-

Associate Editor

Although many members
of the college community
are actively involved in the
townzefforts to provide more
low cost housing, it is un-
likely that the college as
an institution will assume
a leading role in this en-
deavor,

College business manager .

Rohert A. Currie said that
although Davidson had taken
an active role in this field
in the past, it was question
able’ as to whether the col-
lege could afford to tie up as
much of the endowment in
low interest housing loans
in the future.

lege for the benefits of em
ployees. Both are the south
side of Concord Road. The
college maintains the right
to repurchase any of these
houses at the market price
when it is sold. Most of
these, units are~ mortgaged
through the college. :

A group of community
members interested in the
prospect of low cost rental
housing met Sunday night
to exchange ideas and co-
ordinate their efforts.

Danny Clodfelter, a mem-
ber of the Davidson College
Presbyterian church _ ser-
vice subcommittee  investi-
gating low cost rental hous

According to Clodfelter,
the capital supplied by the
Sponsorer _is fully refunded
within 18 months. In that
time, however, interest on
the principle is forgone.

Facing the prospects of ex-
tensive campus expansion
and rising operaing costs,
the college must allocate its
limited resources among
.many worthwhile — alterna-
tivies of which town housing
is one with a lower priority
than. others at this time.

LAKESIDE PARK
A sutcessful first. step.

Lakeside Park, a develop-
ment of new. houses located
off Griffith Street, looks no
different from the many de-
velopments which are now
a part of the American land-

scape
There is more here than
meets the eye, however, for

Lakeside Park represents -

the united efforts of all seg
ments of the Davidson com
munity, coupled with assist-
ance from outside govern
mental agencies. The result

at meeting the need for low-
cost housing in Davidson.

According to H. B. Nara-
more, president of Bridge
port Fabrics and past-presi
dent of the Davidson Com-
munity Relations Commit
tee, the project was_ initiat-
ed to ‘deal with the major
problem which his commit-
tee ran across in its at
tempt. to improve human re
lations in Davidson.

“The one subject which al-
Ways came up at our com-
munity meetings’ said
Naramore, ‘‘was housing.
This need was well verified
by a look around the com-

sonel counseling which were
necessary parts of the Lake-
side Park project's success.

According to James Rae-
ford, president of the David-
son branch of the organiza-
tion, “‘PADA helped people
with home planning and with
other related things, such as
financing.

“We got plans for the
houses from the University
of North Carolina,’ Rae-
ford continued, “and Mr.
Waymer helped us with our
landscaping. We also had a
training meeting to show
how to get the best house
possible for the money.”

2 e e ’

gonies And Ecstasies. Cited By
: ¢ ‘i e © Da i Ss irs iori roje i : i

canner meme cr moore Students In Off-Campus Living vr isec ini mee Ke sine ae

munity, so we decided that

ing. said that he anticipat-
the housing issue should be “The completion of the

“We certainly would not
ed little help from the col-

be looking for ways to cut

Since 1955, the college has evident by not saying any- ok of our decision. tion,’ said Town Council-
offered its employees mort- thing at the meeting Sun ; s ; ee ee! oa In order to take title to man Joseph McClain, who
gage loans at rates below day,"’ Clodfelter said. By RUSS MERRITT ties that the off-campus stu almost unanimously co n- those living off * campus in real estate, it was neces- went on ‘to ddd “there is
the market setiinterest He said that the college Associate Editor dent runs into, one such tend that the advantages of apartments, houses, or what sary that an organization never enough housing: there
rates, The rising opportuni colild contribute the low cost “It's different, -and it’s student, who lives in a room living out of the’ dorms out ever pay on ye average a more attuned to business is always. root Torsimoroses
ty costs engendered by ris- housing by acting as a spon admittedly difficult, but provided by 4 retired David- weigh the disadvantages. dollar for every day, or Cealings be — developed,” ment?
ing interest. rates in the sor of the program when it from. my standpoint it’s well son couple For instance, “We don't have to put up about 300 dollars. The dorm Naramore continued. - “This -
market make this invest- is presented to the Farmers Worthen tis sus harder for those of Uh with. idiotic dorm require rent includes heating, light being the case, a non he de of the activity
ment alternative unattrac Home Administration for off campus to keep up with ments, dorm checks, or && 14 janitorial services, et¢ ; profit Corporation, “the Da of the organizations bl
tive funding. Thee speuker iwas"one = ot college activities.— Also dorm curfews,” claimed one while those students living vidson Community Develop ame above is that pa
_ This program has become Under the program, the a growing number of David much of the total experience senior whois living with. a in separate houses off cam ment. Inc was created, in ne of the Lakeside Park
such a large investment of sponsor provides the legal son students who have de of being a student is missed small group of: friends, in a pus must pay these bills as cluding in its membership project, consisting of thirty-
the endowment funds. and entity for receiving a loan cided to forsake life in the since we are*isolated some MOnNEnadmaaiade Resides . well as the housing rent all of the’ Community Rela Ns aerh has been com-
these funds are not getting The—sponsor must provide dormitories for living quart what—frome- the rests of the being independent from sch imitet aroblem reer tions Committee. when this ais ork pe Phase” Two
the return they could com approximately two per cent ers elsewhere in pursuit of ludent bods restrictions, “we also, are for the off-campus student vas done, we were ready. to is kt us Bie0// Be
mand, Currie said of the working capital, but privacy, a quiet place to The Vee yccsvaabe ly teas ais free from the — incredibt are apparently vetting bet do busine ea is a eae dao ace

The college figured prom this sum is later repaid study, and “‘independencs ag is <a ; ‘ ~ S : amount of dormitory noise aU NMURVA Aes moloaand Naramore went on to de ys nee * daleieietluc Mo ee
inently in the development when, the mortgage is se as one off-campu student i = ; it ht | se SLA nd horseplay. that distract more. resident of David cribe the steps taken by aerate tt Cons
of the lakeside subdivision cured aid Kaa frat ge ie a from studying.” on, Huntersville, and Cor the non-profit: corporation in “Phase Two of the project
After the 20 acre tract had The mortgage is floated DAvideoncaAllowes lok cal efalip af tudi fe Pe en, Mananiacfoslinal hor lk nelius and néighboring com t development activitic will involve twenty lots,”
been purchased from the by a_ private financial in IGAet Aen aitad suanbe ray Se wana noveecoan ea pa skies sical TRUAIGR nie OR CORII Ren Money Was borrowed _ for said H. B- Naranjore—‘five
Duke Power Company, the stitution at the market rate to. live offceampuseach ot plastie sheeting: fo in STAT trats UREA PRA Uccall férested in renting to David the development. and thirty of which will be developed
college bought 20 of the lot of interest. The federal Cann mmdeea there isn't APNE CTT aay ma d on. student As ‘one -local acres of Jand was pureha _ and sold by a private de
for devetoping and-resale to ency subsidizes the inter enough dorm space for the aati failed io " : landowner iid recently oc from Duke Power. After yveloner

employees. t rate so’ that the loan is Whole eincente pons (945 Simil . AURA TT RARE 0 ie average, off cam. . There ‘is no reason why we Mn 1 tallation of oetilitic bi aie me

The funds supplied by the effectively one per cent for beds). and ‘so it -is neces inde tha vwatare Sinaly calaC pus housing is mére expen. shouldn't rent to Davidson tO n the-development were ie aes oknen
transaction enabled the Da the housing unit sary that’ some student ATTA BLT CHEATER GEES ve than that? provided by tudent especially When placed on sale at cost Ge lO NER a nee
vidson Development Corpor Since the debt is amortiz NOR TIT CADAULINGHLE UR cant sare ts the colleges Roughly: the stu MOE cOnEdarethAtethatacain Theccort of at : os Hs B08 pe

to proceed with the ed by the rent collected, the Ace UNCUT Ava alk: ( livit dérms pa everal empty living space Phase One of the project Maree nes ra me ee
evelopment of some of the lower rate of interest made aatT ap MUN ETHOCAnDAR However, ¢ e pro 0 ¢ i for — the three that won't. be ‘good for anv was $1,000 aid Naramort Te ta dine sce
remaining lots possible by the subsidy blems that invariably crop Armaatatee oe REOt ec dol Mina encanl lace tienobody When you consider the fact Renae 8D, A
Two other. development makes it possible to keep There are some difficul up, the off-camp tudent lat academic day. while lives’ ih. them.’ Oe, & that’ this price included curb ; eel Aba rates

: PVA PTTL AEN _— vould” nor vy make the

cost prohibitive to these in

and water — facilitie i ;
terected—tr—patrte tha stor

Married Students On Campus Say “Cardboard Village’ voy u.o 3 ose

1
: has a policy of interest rate
this area would cost around oe i Seren
bar credi or -income —pur-

Not Ideal Place To Live. College Needs Better Housing Naramore pointed out pprtieipation possible” fot

patior possible for
that, ev wit t t 5 ‘
even with lots at co most of the members of the

construction of a new home community n need of “hew

was. still too: expensive for

The most obvious pro ience of non-college housing prompt maintenance is pro house What there isn't Mr Peter Nicholls, -di as those in Charlotte and housing.’
blems for married students is its distance from the @am vided by the college. And bad, and at least there are rector of student housing, thus out of range for most ma nvelamiles After” the N | .
. : : A i ‘ , F F 1e 1 ca aramore a > é
in Davidson is the lack of pus. Married couples live in finally, they: may be furn- no pest problems such as stated that if apartments married students, she said ANGE HBG beck purna add furth " whee
: : ; ‘ ; i see crit Sa : urther — ste rovi
adequate housing. : Cornelius, Mooresville, and ished by the college and re the. ants in my freshman wére to be built, the college Even though there is a least Meh obstacle was the : ; eps to provide
a ; “ 4 F 7 : F : more s sre alre:
ly f pom eulmes me ven [2 nat OLUc. decorated by the couples dorm last year. would have to subsidize listing of where students live sDADIiby = Obs manys <06< out t ie age They pesia
+¢ ants y four Feats / rt °C > > Par yNeing taken. They ar i
Hi aia eames 1 Sophomore Bill ,Lineweav themselves. Although he said anything them, off campus, the married stu pera iae POPES R a a? the d foal Tost een
sj its sommonly . ore ineweav- ; (Pee is feof = obté é . struc 1@ area O} W-C é
housing units ae a i ie I et ith shin emer Lineweaver added that al- would be an improvement, It wouldn't be practical dents interviewed agreed ve a ee for construc GUS 4 . ae rental
poerlnardbor vil- or, q s s i Aue : ion, » Si 1ousing and are be j
known as — carabo ‘i aes ee ine: MChraaa ail though the appliances Lineweaver concluded that for a private builder to con- that a central agency for wh 1 BENG: I ai : Cc gree LE
ates : — apart: _ > Mog F nie : ‘ : ; : ) sie Vv 1e 0 : he
lage one aoe Paes fave unite on “Griffith weren't the best, he was apartments would probably struct them since rents dealing with rentals, the We solved this problem ti a ici Rela
ants—t 2x on Me age 5 i P ; at . fates é + jlons Committee, 2 is
ments—a duple 3 : just happy to obtain the be the best arrangement. would prolably be as high availability of housing, and by working with the Farm- e; thes Lone
Street, an apartment across Street, stated that housing : k Z fil : aehsenin Eat G Term Planning Commission
vd 2 sesecopenss _ ‘ i ceeping a ¢ » 2 gs nistratlo 0 : -
from the Coffee Cup, and oc- for married students is one f : , : } I : liv here a td he arrange for low-co t Toahs “ and the Service Committee
R $ : ° who lived where » arre > y “COS ans, ‘
casionally the apartment in of the ‘bleeding wounds’ for : jesus ; te of the Davidson Presby:
é LG Kah T8 iaprovement on the part al some of the best imorpve Naramore continued. “They hari Cl ; :
arti anor, whi : i ; erian Church
ene | ie ais ihe called p ments. do a lot of this kind of work ;
rmally faculty housing. -ollege. , ; ¥ Pree «s
normally 3 With the coming of co-edu and were of great assistance The Lakeside Park pro-
Although there is another Although last year the cation the college will have to us, ject is a first step in solv-
apartment on Main Street Married Students Associa- to be better prepared for “The FHA was able to ar ing the housing problem in
sar. the Gulf station, the tion headed by Phil Hazel married students. Besides, range thrity-five year loans Davidson,’ said Nara
neal ‘ A more, ,
college, despite’ intentions led an effort for improved ven around male campuses at 5147 interest and, since “but it is only a first step.
re contrary, has never housing, the MSA has _ not such as Davidson married the cost of dwelling was Anyone who drives aro
to the ¢ ) F un
made it quite liveable for been formally active since students are becoming more kept. to a minimum, no Will see more needs to
married students, and con _ Hazel’s departure last year. of a reality down payment was neces be done
sequently rents it-only to : t As yet revealed, even the sary. Davidson College was
: : However, Lineweaver cit - foe) ;
single students 3 AED reports did not provide also very helpful in. financ
ed some advantages to the i _
; é specifically for married stu ing the project. ag to
Non-college housing. for college’s housing units, de- :
1 : teeth j 1 s dent housing at Davidson buy twenty lots for its em
rriec ‘ nt ranges spite, their inadequacies. :
married _ students eae I lug And as the scarcity pro ployees Photos By
from ridiculous to excellent, One of these is the loca ble venii lle : r
” blem, ‘cardboard — village “While the non-profit cor-
However, the rents are us tion, only a short walk away : yy st
: ive i ; and the increase in married poration did the financial :
ually higher without a. cor- from the Fine Arts center students shows, the college roundwork th :
: . . E gre awork, another °
responding increase in ‘qval- Secondly they are cheap—a, aaa oe group BILL, LYLE >
it $45 h ird will haye to assume a great- the Davidson branch of the 4 :
Ity. 7 eee mae a month. “‘Khird, ‘CARDBOARD VILLAGE’ er role in providing for mar- Piedmont Area Develop- ;
The greatest inéonven- said Lineweaver free and Inadequate but convenient and reasonable. ried student housing. ment Authogity, was hand ;
