See Page Three {See Page Four)

FAGG ANNOUNCES ee: od nd PHI BETA KAPPA, _
FIRST SIGNEE . ) 4 aut Btta TAPS SEVENTEEN

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1970

LIX wa

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

SENS So cost aM oc Gas Gs TEASER RRR ERY

Senate Approves | Ir
¢
‘ | O Ss O e
e€ll-Sscnedu ing :
E P | Alter Ss SG Policy
By GRAY WILSON into the envelope, and then
Asst. Managing Editor all the envelopes will be = e Ys
collected in the Registrar's _ "
The student Senate has office a week in advance. UusS < >¢ »S 4 A | tu < nt
adopted a proposal calling For the examination period
for self-scheduled exams in itself, students will be allow- Tc :
an attempt to bring positive ed to pick up their envelopes a hf
action by the faculty before beginning at 8:40 a.m. or Ol 7s ues ton O e S
final Spring Term exams. 1:40 p.m. in the basement :
: A of Chambers.
The proposal will go from +6 ceedings F , By JOE SMITH | because a large majority of
the Senate to the faculty The proceedings will be ; students are against. them.” O
Mducational Poliee Commit conducted by senators and Associate Editor ‘
tee. ate yeah Neel ial ae When The enhogle trie t6 A hin of pve ta rel Students have overwhelm-
y distribute and collect ) ropulutesanythings related to tained that new machinery ingly approved an amend-

In its meeting. Wednesday

the examinations at the ap-

‘ Was necessary to adapt the ent to »§ > sons :
‘ Pals ; ; : a student’s social values, Sa u ment t the Student constitu
night, the Senate unanimous pointed times , code to a changing situation tion making 24-hour open
; ° ss outside those matters touch apt I
lv approved the detailed, The eXaminations may be BCEDVRtAtaS NW IL should The predominant idea was dorms the official policy of
five-page statement in re taken in the ‘classrooms of fend lightly the creation of a student the stident government
sponse to ddministyative ef several campus buildings and : faculty Committee to recom With results in from = all
forts to delay- consideration nus > retur 9°45 That view expressed by mend changes as often as SPENCER Voters except those in Little
: must be returned by 12:15 wat i ,

of the subject until next year.

p.m. or 5:15 p.m sophomore Whit Ayers (See TRUSTEE, Page Four) . dorms after the library dormitory and those living
If accepted, the proposal The student takes the con- ; mS summed up the view of bes off Pet test Sue tally stands
states that the examinations sequences for any infractions - ‘ - i the Code of Responsibility ™N e = | at 614 to 90 in favor.
will be given during a five of the exam mechanism, if held by the students who at ( oOommi | lee Says ae yong percentage
day period at 9 a.m. or 2 cluding mistakes in hisysched me e 4 OF: tended Tuesday night's he ay A a7. : K fom Oe NER SO coc an
p.m. as is currently stfuc ule or violations of the ex T tn T oO Ics ing--conducted by the Trus é a one an percent,
rice amination period itself e tee Committee on Social 7 e ~ =] re amendment does not
The Senate also discussed Life W hi le Sh ould ( O change the actual legal stat
Ten days prior to the be progress on the question of : ‘ a) pean ae 7] yt us of open dorm hours, but
sinning of exam week, each 24-hour open dotms. SGA Friday f np ree i earns AUER Lo eat peinciple-of
student will submit to his President Ran Coble urged a ae ‘ foul aces Ther iain ais By STEVE ROADY courses elsewhere for grad- unlimited hours official stu
instructor an envelope’ con mores inoderate approach ‘to 8 p.m spol ago : ‘ o Love Auditorium membe 4 nk i nf ale rs Retoclaiec Editor uation credit were also dis- dent government policy
taining the’ exact time “he the SéuBfesb in Wiew of the 40 19 p.m “Southern Folk Festiva f Morrison Room tion, and five trustees a cussed al the meeting. The amendment instructs
wishes to take the examina recent faculty rejection a 1a m, “Your Father's Mustache Morrise n Room peeue The ME Hoc Commnitter mie colognes ec ae aim the student government ‘“'‘to
tion, along with other per Coble said that the present SEHD h Se ese Lover sudiyorium Une Sone wes. 1oetse oy Ot ane oes oe Ole Srl mary of thedemands which take, Suchyaction as tnay be
tinent information tuctic is ‘to find out “he Barefoot in the Park” as a student Magna Charta, dents, . led by g senior David Ware Abend cai eniae be nire necessary to bring this policy
; ¥ ae Cae ; said junior Ken Prestwich. Sweatt will present to Presi abcd J into immediate effect.”
The instructor will place Palate hs the Peevoode Saturday “Outside the area.of property dent Samuel R. Spencer Jr Sented!sto SPENCE! for a But it is unsure what, if
a copy of the examination ane A St ang eave 5 . 24 é pas ie rights, no. rules are neces- on Monday a list of demands uals ou anything, the student govern
P Jeopardizing the other stu 2 pan. Robert Dawson and Trio Chambers Lawn sary, or advisable. Each wiishieetiilectnolide o thes re 1 Three specified decis mentewwill do in response to
dent Proposals.” H pn, Musical Comedy: Hodson Hall student should be allowed placement of H. Edmunds ions of faculty committees this instruction.
Pa er Coble’ was critical of the “The Apple Tree” to develop his own moral White as Director of Ad regarding the — curriculum SGA President Ran Coble
f p ad hoc committee on open 6 p.m, Steak Dinner Union code !! a eae KAAS RRANEIA) Aid needs of three students must said, “Just putting it in the
dorms, led by former DA- 8 p.m, “The Nitty Love Auditorium Dealing with a specific is ahd the reouinization' of His be reversed, constitution will not make
® VIDSONIAN editor Franklin Gritty Dirt Band” sue, senior Vernon Odom not office : ~ 2. Rule’ regarding aca it so.”
\\ / ns Anderson, and stated that the 10:30 p.m. Hungry d Morrison Room ed that, ‘‘Unlimited dormi ; deimie requirements must be RHC President Cecil Bur
] students had been placed in : am “Ilustration” Love Auditorium tory hours are advisable The committee charges clearly stated in writing and ney told RHC floor repre
a poor position by actions 2 hk Breakfast : Sie Union since students will not re that recent decisions of var- available to the students as sentatives Monday that he
oe os of which the Senate had no 3 am, “Synday in New York Love Auditorium spect anything less. Hours ious faculty committees have permanent references: on 1 Was not certain as to what
WwW al knowledge. ‘ shown that present academic

restrictions are uninforcabl

quest,

action he would take once the

} § structure of Davidson Col- 3. Within one month of the amendment passed
Picking up its third win % lege are unresponsive to the beginning of the Fall Term, He suggested that the RHC
HRY OBE aa Outen VEAP ai ve lu Cn Is ast or Pea Ce e needs of the student body. all juniors and seniors must could déclare the dorms open
THE DAVIDSONIAN © has 4 / 9 Among other specific char receive a written statement amd declare that students
once again been. named the e : r ges leveled by Sweatt) and of their academic standing. were no longer obligated to
Best Small College News M others in the /course of a }. All summer school credit report violations or take the
paper in the Carolinas, fi KG 2 2 a Vr Cri 2 UuSe two-hour meeting last) Sun forthe classes of ’70 and ’71 matter to the faculty again
” 4 > . :
chosen for the award by the ; f day night) was the conten be counted toward fulfill Coble declined to say that
“harlotte Observer and tion that the “summer school ment of graduation require it barred the student govern
( LUC By STEVE CROSS At 9 p.m. last Sunday night in the Morrison Room on litical system under whieh rule.” hich ¢ ! ) fi t
GhanlotteuNes : N snt, ! i woom 1 al Sys ul Wi rule which states that) no ments ment fronggenforcing presen
Copy Editor the fast began with a com “The War and One Chris men like Julian Bond and student of the class of 1970 5. The two-year residency open dorm hours
The two Cl otte papers A number of hungry: Da munion service in the Green tian’s Conscience.” Allard K. Lowenstein can or 1971 can graduate carly requirements _must.be—pre- Student-—government — offi
so rs ; 2 . Tior ToT ‘ ; ‘ tha ; ' in ; 7
utilized their members vidson~ students .undertook Room Ofte Union, conduct “Let me warn you sf the ometimes be elected js not by using credits compiled served. The senior residency cials Thursday morning an-
} } Oo Z| . > ‘ $ ” . 4
as judges in their annual to prove this week that the ed by College Chaplain R bias from which IT speak, beyond hope. during the summer of 1968, requirement must be abol nounced they have dropped
College Press Awards com Vietnam Moratorium is still Peak Woodmansee. Hobbic Kaylor said, “I am speaking If supporters of the Mora is unfair and was not even ished. intentions to press objec-
petition, which this year re alive and well at Davidsorf then passed out armbands not as an American whe torium are guilty of treason revealed to. students” until 6. The CRC must consist of tions to the legality of the
ceived 269 entries from 21 According to former SGA to students taking the fast. _. happens to be a Christian, he said, ‘We will at least recently tf equal numbers of students amendment on election tech-
colleges in two states President Peter Hobbie. 40 Supporters of the Morator but as a Christian who hap never have commitied. trea In response to this allega and faculty. nicalities.
ret le : i F ium tried to persuade pro pens to be an American.” son against our consciences tion, Registrar Jay H. Ost 7. All previously enrolled The intent of the ame
For its winning efforts the or 50 students began a three Ck f t the amend
yw its winning ef 7 | Ben ee IPE CRETE fessors to suspend Wednes Kaylor said that the Mora and our faith.” walt. stated that such infor students must be guaranted ment is “mainly political,”
yi sivyed er esate a) ‘ ‘ 5 * a) : y ‘ ; ' . 2.
ekePel eds ale) AN ve el: night. He said .thes fast. is day classes .as a show of torium teach-in last Oct. 15, He noted that from Christ's mation Was%contained in a re-admission to Dayidson if according to Franklin Ander-
Of BODIE Vemma ne PaO aa meant to prove the dedication sympathy with the protest at which several Davidson ministry to the time of Con memorandum which was sent they apply within one nfonth son, one of the sponsors of
"ee | } T re € € ’ . . in * .
and editor. Dob ugha: re of the people participating Many of the fasters suspend professors spoke, presented stantine, all Christians were out to all students in the of the beginning of the term the. petition which brought
¢ » chec : wd 5 “ $ " ‘ ” ‘ 1 . ' f > : | -
ce ived the first place check poli tlie vp cry ease a ed ‘‘business as usual by well-reasoned — analysis — of pacifists, and that-few have spring of 1968 ; they plan to re-enter. : about’ the amendment It
for $id. continue the  Moratorium’s cutting their Wednesday America’s involvement in the been so since Several allegedly unfair 8%. The Office of Admissions is mainly to tell the faculty
1 Mori s ;
Wiel, ‘ n the Large campaign to end the war classes in order to support war.” He condemmed violent Kaylor added that he wa rulings by the Curriculum and the Office of Financial that students ie serious
Firs lace tl arg i é ) ) é 4 : i :
Gat % sane ie in Vietn ie the protest activists who claim — that over the draft age, and thet -Requirements Committee in Aid must be separated and about this,’
‘ollege ews} Gre > UnMé . , ; . : 1 . *
nae arded to The \ li t Hobbi tl On Wednesday at 11 a.m., peaceful protest has not he did not know vhat he regard to students who wish- have separate directors. New Faculty members aired
gory é aw arde ? Accor ‘4 ) 1¢ 3
BOL Was ewe pee POORGID Ee LOH et OD DIES Associate Professorof Re worked would do if he were draft ed to drop out of school for personnel must be sought their reasons for opposition
Old Gold and Black of Wake Business Office turned down : ; : ‘ / ; Pr
U perio eas oe : } pe eM ‘ligion R. David Kaylor spoke Kaylor suggested that a age. a period of time or take to fill. both positions, (See OPEN, Page Four)
Forest University, er Co- 1e fasters’ request that they

Gray Lawrence and

Robinson,

editors
Barry

Runners-up to THE DA

be reimbursed for the meals
they had not eaten; so that

fasters could send money

JUDICIAL REVIEW

they were saving on food, to . e
VIDSONIAN for the small the Vietnam Moratorium e - wi ?
CONSECUIV ISON: Were awe Committee. Many fasters sent an < < < OoOmmuni Ou I S
University Student of John- money anyway. , .
son C. Smith University and

the Queens Current of
Queens College.

“I'm quite pleased that
the judges regarded this
year’s)paper so highly. Their
compliments on its struc-
layout and stories re-
amount of work
Dunham

ture,
flect the
the staff put in,”
said.

Hobbie reported that about

30 fasters lasted the whole

' three-day fasting period.

Many of the fasters drop-
ped out after one day, many
more during the long hungry
hours of Tuesday. Nonethe-
less, the red-and-white ‘‘Fatt
for Peace” armbands could
be seen anywhere one went
on campus.

Trustees Postpone Code
Until Next Fall’s Meeting

By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

McLean: Do you believe that the recent behavior of
the courts has eroded students’ confidence in the
court system?

Vernon: I don’t think the drug case created so
little confidence in the court system, but it made us
realize what we had done . . . when we voted in the
Code. I hadn’t looked at what it was forcing me to do.

‘Roberts: If you read the Code, of course, you do
have business in dealing specifically with these areas
(drugs and sex). They are specifically mentioned. I
think the question is whether it should mention these
but it does. ;

It is one question whether or not you agree with

led by the civil authorities.

Bliss: I think this is a very likely conclusion to
the present situation. I think that the recent activities
of the courts’show’that the system as it is now con-
stituted can work ‘and does work.

It could be argued that

because of certain

values that would be maintained, it should be per-

petuated.

I'm not really sure I’m arguing in favor of the
college maintaining its present situation. The advan-
tages I would see to maintaining it if 1 were to argue
that it ought to be maintained probably center on the
separate community which the college has been tra-
ditionally and which it would lose, will lose, if it in
such a way becomes a part of the larger community.
t would lose the values which characterize the pre

EDITOR’S NOTE

During the Winter Term the college court
system, passed through an “ordeal by fire” in
handling a series of cases involving the alleged
sale of hallucinatory drugs by a Davidson junior.

The defendant was tried and convicted by
the Regulations Court at the end of the Fall
Term. The Court of Appeals sustained the con-
viction, and the defendant appealed to the Board
of Trustees. But before the board met, the Col-
lege offered a retrial in a court of the defendant's
choosing. He selected the Court of Appeals, say-
ing he could not get a fair trial in the Regula-

tions Court.

The trustees have post- basis for student-faculty re- it, but if you're on the Court you're responsible for sent small, rather isolated community. :
poned reconsideration —_ of lations and students’ social maintaining it. Vernon: There would be. perhaps, a significant Again the Court of Appeals found the stu-
the Code of ‘Responsibility life, had been in effect since McLean: Are college courts competent to deal Joss of trust around here .. . in that you don’t know ‘dént guilty, but suspended his sentence. Two

until their meeting next fall,
according to a spokesman
for the college.

They are reportedly wait-
ing for a full report on “the
Code from the Student Life
Committee.

This week members of the
Trustee Social Life Commit-
tee were on campus to so-
licit student and faculty opin-

Oct. 11, 1968, at which time
it was given temporary ap-
proval subject to review in
two years,

The trustees will hold their
Spring Term meeting on cam.
pus next Thursday and Fri-
day, Apr. 23 and 24.

At that time they plan to
take up a proposal for chang-
ing the composition of the
Board of Trustees, be intro-

with drug cases, in view of the complications with
civil law in this matter? = -

Roberts: Members of the courts have raised this
question among themselves and we have made ar-
rangements to have some outside legal counsel sit
down. and discuss with us legal matters pertaining
to this question. Members of the court definitely have
some reservations about this. E uae

. .. The drug case happened to be a situation in
which the court really didn’t have much cooperation.
I really feel that we didn’t do a very good job on that
one

whose taking three courses and who’s just walking
around. I generally have my door open, but I wouldn’t
have it open for just anybody in that situation.
Baker: It is beyond the competency of the Inves-
tigating Committee, being students and amateurs, to
investigate adequately matters involving drugs.
McLean: The talk about “definite procedures”
seems to be saying that college courts should become
adversary proceedings rather than courts which serve
to force the defendant to admit guilt, as it’is now.
Roberts: Traditionally this is the way college
courts are supposed to operate. I would be extremely

days later the student was charged with an
honor offense. He was convicted by the Honor
Court and pressed an appeal to the Court of
Appeals. On the strength of a defense by asso-
ciate professor of philosophy Alan B. Brinkley,
he was acquitted of the Honor conviction.

At the first of the Spring Term, several

court members were asked to

Participate in a

round-robin interview session on the courts. Pro-

fessors Jerry A. Roberts (Regulations Court), ©
Frank W. Bliss (Court of Appeals), and students
Tom Vernon (Court of Appeals) and Johnny Ba- _

ion on subjects’ ranging from duced to newly appointed » McLean: Then should we keep the Code’s prohi- 1 A : 2 . ker (Investigating Committee Chairman) agreed -

open dorms to dorm reno- academic vice-president John bition on “potentially dangerous drugs?” : ie a eaeee Serie bambi, Beever 4 _ to be interviewed by Editor-in-Chief Ed Shoaf

vation. M. Bevan, and elect new Vernon: Despite all the problems that will come , * and Managing Editor John McLean. i
The Code, which. is the officers. with it, I think we will have to have such cases hand- (See REVIEW, Page Four) : . Hla tod ko >

Sua ARENA AS
