Davidaonian —

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1970 NUMBER TWENTY-TWO

ECOLOGY GROUP ’
MAKES PLANS }

Faculty Vote Rejects
24-Hour Op

Students Petition SGA
To Amend Constitution

%

.

—
é

By JOHN McLEAN ! rnni ] conn ity, -Cr nd
Managing Editor ‘) \ ad for. student
: : oF sul d its ¢
ed dow ‘ :

) 1 d

ternoc ce ‘ mK The ly. ( i has

Staff photos by Davidson) ’ for. a SGA fet udent ernmen et : a 1 ate Fa

FORMER DIPLOMAT RETURNS TO ALMA MATER Constitution amendment a _ tone ee n a EB inc See eta ark ak TS

Reynolds Lecture guest Dean Rusk talks informally with students. king 24-hour open dot If glosed) to women

the question has arisen that

dorm structure at pres

Rusk Says Peace, Liber et

has a responsibility toward
tructed to take such action creating and sustaining san

@ is iw be necessary to bring itmosphere for personal de
r) r O Or O IC un policy into immediate velopment; if the college has
; a effect.” * inkpbited this development it

has failed in its responsibil

Franklin ferson, one of

. Wes
¢ : REN ‘ ' ; i t! tition’s ONSOrS, 1
By RICH WILSON eign policy, Ruskfoutlined a the ~results’-reveiled that what-the LS, thinks about 1 ees Salata ine We would like to open
. : : feat ri } we SCC ution ws t ‘ . Vt
Asst. Managing Editor series of four’ guidelines in the last 400 crises, the a situation in the world is ‘ SU tie : i ; discussion on. the problem
which need to be followed. United States had partic important USUAL en each | 5 ; ‘level
Former Secretary of Stati fon Ong : fe iy government to do something such as privacy, noise levels,
First, governments — dt pated in only six “Influence ‘of U.S. politics F f it
Dean Rusk said in his speech e ie} ht ie about open dorms aa atbagen UUielele st tae ML Ua
} 1 rive their just. powers® from Fourth, a decision must be is the primary object of al racks-like” halls and on the
Tries >{ t ‘ 1 ‘ + A JOGY ‘ ack KO aus ij
Tuesday nigh ue ; ut the consent of the governed made as to ‘whether the most every government” in College President Samuel rationale for the faculty <a
» 4 ine ¢ . ; ; 5 t > ationale Gane \ te
ree rane i 4 Rusk noted that this is the proposed action will bring the world.” he said R. Spencer Jr., and Dean cision these discussions
ty must be .the ars which + Vie} ” yy . s ;
; most xplosive idea” in. ou eace.” The mer secretar j ; . ° Q 1
guide US. foreign’ policy.” es ‘ I tte bidet y fort shay y Rusk cautioned against the of Faculty Frontis R. John taking place within the con
ou reign \ society. We must be con emphasized that this is the to : ‘ . 1 Jeclined y
Spe aking to the students ed with our legislative t ae t d isi peusencs isolationism mt oe Sete Re eee Sid ail arses NOT so CANDID CAMERA
‘ aking to tl $ nts cern sisli ; ; ‘ins .
nd townspeople of David 1 nstitut | ninit om i en ede wy i spreading here and in govern- ment on reason for the ac Thus, we invite both fac :
a ispeople é anc constitutiona comm) Ht uestion 1s, le said, : ' t H i i
n. Rusk revealed the enor nts.’ he said ' Le ' ileal d ete ments abroad.” He cited in- tion, citing a provision in the ulty and students to the cafe This week a film of Davidson has been made for dis-
son, sk reveal > enor: ments, e said, “how oc you organize a rey : ' A ; : :
mous complexity and pace Ss ih ow a rent " amt hea a : dividual arguments such as faculty constitution which teria. area in the Union at tribution to prospective applicants from high schools
Y s sMILY é é Second, agree e § yeace? . H i i
Papel panel a Tear \ : the U. S. withdrawal from disallows public discussion 10 p.m. on Apr. 15 to begin across America. See details of the project on Page
of formifig foreign policy. should be honored. Accord Rusk also maintained that NATO which altogeth dialogue.” F
i eS : which altogether re- ac ’ rs’ s alogue i
Each issue must be scru- ing to Rusk, the U. S. is a the United States must con sult in “pra Sees if hy HELRLAIS ASN DER Cs et : Os
tinized from every, angle, member of 4,500 treaties: tinue to “invent. politically.” Feoratiaat holatiecicns 7 in faculty meetings
and innumerable “questions “consequently,# he said, “we He wited three areas: weap ne : WW Manet ki eat e ) D)
; Soh aa SCN en ea pe The former Secretary of owever, faculty member Z p “: 6
must be answered, Rusk can rely with more certainty ons control, underwater sea “ Dyan ; who prefer to remain anony 1e
P “Making foreig licy on what other governments bed protect and sather poate Eee ue. Se aUEe : : ; Dye elas
said. Making foreign policy uh ; He ved protection, and weathe font lb HEOTALIOHIE EDA mous’ told this reporter that
is like a pilot going over a Ane going to do. control whe re the govern “double generation: © gap.” the faculty had expressed e e e e :
checklist,” he said. “‘But a Third, ‘‘we must live and ment is seeking to solve the pe : re for nal ler -
eater members rags comer tr oom meee AY VE Oratorium ivith
sense of confusion is the first let live.” Rusk related how problems involved ; : ations and practical aspects :
be have forgotten the issues auions an practical aspects
step toward reality. he had asked an aide at one Introducing another factor ciiftan bales Sign Minami of dormitory life in’ their
. In order to bring some time during his term of of- in the decision of foreign GNIS (BLS Sana fia ee deliberntions one the propos By STEVE CROSS Committee. pected more than 10,000 per-
form of organization to for- fice to do some research. policy, Rusk affirmed that vegaredall ay Copy Editor Participants in the fast sons to attend from all over
f SBALS Jen era, a8 Pare “oO : oe ; ‘ will wear white arm) bands the Eastern seaboard.
a history book. Various arguments against Former SGA President Pe

saying “peace fast,” and will

5 = : But Rusk warned that “we the proposal reportedly in ter Hobbie is SOU EARLS Fae PeATnenIcdmesctor nor ae oan a eet
O nis on reem S Ou) shall not-have a chance af cluded concern for the “wel Davidson students to fast for al support. clude rigadier renera

ter World War IIT to organ fare—and reputation” of wo three days and nights in ob aa Hugh Hester, U. Ss. Army
ize a new government. Only men visitors, the belief that servance of the April Viet The — more people mG (retired); Arthur Waskow,
: a few miserable survivors the college should hold cer «nam War Moratorium. have, the more we'll do, co-director of the Institute
i §) Onors olle e la f f Willesbemiktu th: eocculnte fain Chistian moral stan ii eda IM THES FHMC CUR said Hobie ‘nope that a for Policy Studies in Wash-
about the frailities of humans dards in this area, and the HO BITATIB EL NaS CBTATD GION number — of een) He ington, D. C.; eight rock
“We must orgartize. for belief thats 24-hour — open BHR SanGny HEHE: CA Gril Sun an Laren in the any, and representatives
By STEPHEN ROADY Economics Department, Noting that College Presi- peace before World War-Tt dorms would contribute neg ie eet aa aeRM NIG Moratorium fast from militant labor, black,
Aeisclaie “editer Frank Bliss of the~English dent Samuel R. Spencer Jr occurs,” he advised. “All of atively to the educational ii ee at aR Wednes Local supporters of the and Bouve GI anti-war
; Department, Earl BR. Mac has given the Honors Col- us must participate in a ser atmosphere AT Rey: Moratorium are trying to groups
Dean of the Faculty Fron- Cormac of the Philosophy lege his full support, finan- ious and sustained debate Faculty members in favor re a persuade faculty members to A rock concert with spee
tis W. Johnston announced Department, and Locke cially as well as psychologi We must find better answers: reportedly said that such an “The peace movement,” suspend classes next Wednes ches between performances
Tuesday the appointment of White ofthe Physics De- cally, MacCormac © stated we dare not find worse ones.” extension of student freedom said former SGA President day. will begin tomorrow after
four faculty members to the partment will form the nu- that the new faculty wanted Rusk offered two sugges- vas both desirable and con Peter Hobbie, “isn't some Hobbie also expressed in noon at 2 p.m. on the UNC
Honors College ' cleus of next year’s Honors the program to contribute to tions in this debate. “In the sistent with the Code of Re thing that’s done just to be terest. in a major anti-war campus at Chapel Hill. Tom
Robert L. Avinger of the College staff. the*rest of the school. first place it is too late to sponsibility. ‘in’ ’ He said that the pur “festival”: to. be held” in Paxton will hold a— concert
Johnston, who will become The Honors College ought persue a policy of total hos- They said that the dormi pose of the fast was to show Chapel Hill on-the UNC cam- Glee yabinoly, followed | by a
“Cl, e ©) Dean of the Honors College, FD TeREh Banna dont tom be tility’ with other nations. tories should be  self-govern commitment, pus. tomorrow and Sunday, speech by Arthur Waskow.
4 cago willsalso serve as the Hon AAT TATY Tower mitts that That aspect of the cold war ing societies A more practical purpose featuring Rennie Davis of Sunday at 2 p.m. the con
ors College’s History pro does little except foster its must be brought to a con- In response to the faculty of the fast he added, is that the Chicago Seven, and folk General Hester will speak
/ d oe own ends,” : clusion. Instead, nations must SGA Presidént Ran Coble the Moratorium Committec singers Phil Ochs, Tim Har at 3:30 p.m
Wea s In addition to these profes- find points of agreement.” and .RHA~ President Cecil needs money din, and Tom Paxton On both days, workshops
sors, Johnston hopes to se The more than thirty ap-" “In the second place, we Burney called for a faculty. * Hobbie has been negotiat According to Fred Thomas, will be held on civil diso-
Festivities cure one more faculty mem Plicants for the Honors Col are ‘Homo sapiens’ living on student meeting in the Union ing with college treasurer n- UNC senior from Concord bedience, legal counseling,
: “ber for the Honors College lege will be interviewed over a small speck of dust in the next Wednesday to discuss Robert A. Currie for a re and one of the -coordinators, hlackwhite relations’ within
: next year, as well as to pro- the next three weeks. John universe. We need to look the structures of dorm lift fund of money saved by said that the festival will the movement, daft coun-
Next weekend the annual vide a distinguished visiting ston plans to have the stu upon -ourselyes as a com and the rationale for the fasters on the Union meal be “potentially the biggest seling, the G.I. movement,
rite of Spring Frolics will professor. dent participants chosen bs mon species; we must work faculty vote ticket, to be contributed to anti-war activity in the his war tax: resistence. and wo:
begin on the:Davidson cam- Since White will be on the first week in May. together.” In a joint letter to the col the Vietnam Moratorium tory of the South.” Hee: men’s liberation

ini
Pus leave._next vear, Johnston

says he will attempt to se

Feature entertainment at

traction will be the hard

More Blaek

Accepted For Admission

Than Ever

cure another faculty mem-
ber to’serve in his place

rock band “Chicago” which
ill. appear in concert Fri-

\ ig ae In .a_ private interview,
4s ght a } p.m n Love nk s.
‘ A nag be MacCormac voiced some of
\uditorium Teer
‘ ‘ his feelings about the en

°
At’ 10 pn Hlusstolk) so ipuemeriet pectic ra eae By GEORGE KANEKLIDES ed’ thi pplications — this
entourage 1 Southern College Staff Writer ( t vell above” those
Folk festival’? will play —in of f ner vears
{ — : ison R : On creative possibili Davidson College sent ¢ & F AN
he Morrison, Room iaccal Py prayed a: Se e Office of Admissions
: : { Fs ‘ : etters of accentance-to ) ¢
‘ mee Sather’s yu : per to n y pr -
You Father Mous ed that “the question is this gpa cA ehemeGtive. Bf a ; ex] s to enroll approxi
cht Gay-Nineues  enver first, how imaginatis Wisk Approximate! students “in. thy
‘ , . ig a l Sta Mets Class + TI arger tha!
unment troul he RE} the: Honors College of the 425 are black. : 2 is larger than
+—in—the Sadr We Ae oaks u é usual nimber is due t :
orming a inthe he in ulilizing the rese Those pet sane pemoree eats kN due to the
nent < ber I : aa : : t wnbe! f students
’ ) ers, in provided, and second, how Prone are tig. applicant c 1unal ; f udent
eoeprrtyteE f -atmoiee ted : { ; ng~under—the—h :
prety ATE AR cae iniaginativer wilt “the faculty makingin 738. percent Rac A : ‘ e—dunior
phere be in working ‘with these ANGE Tate on W=-Re Oe ane ae Se an
At 3 a.m. Saturday morn students?” Aineatn increase in special programs
i fj refoot In x a 2 at Davidson, and the normal
: Be Atien lacCormac stressed the ( said it ear ; Cape es
A] Park t be shown. in ype ty ice attrition rate.
y interdisciplinary nature — of figure mmipare vel f : wre
1 nun . I r cts ‘3
: ‘ ; : ; the College program, statins vorab ith rece ( Satan expe appronl
' ri Weteria il 2 . i Bt 1 percent sy
: a that there is stitft-a need for tr an itio re 0 LU percent of tl
fi s i ad 1 ) e pr r “uct tance oro
z Se Nitty Grit Another faculty member fron recent veal sin black ac eptance group
Hhoas vy ° 1 itty to v: olled \ 23 idsor
towed | Bh : thewsdcinledmancas LAR Of about 27 | we ent d at Davidson
t Dirt. Band i concert in “ ; ne
NES nT IG CAL MacCormac said that th dents U ypliedy ap
ito 1 ab ~“ r 1 ’
veey cay fichnre Honors College “is not meant proximately 16 were accep He also commented that he
); Ma soves 1 ale N j ? li
follk-roc! rou; ». will in 7 Way to the ed. according ‘to Regen would personally like -to dip
olk-rock — g1 ; ! : ‘ :
: d hone pro al He said that Davidson has into those on the waiting
‘ it y d. eras ees A SES fee Sn ellcine : :
pease a HOE: ready exists, in accepted mor blacks list ‘to fill the class due to

Ilustration.” a group which English, French, and His- it ever has before, dind he , their high quality, even
Social Chairman Stu tory looks for ,a substantial rise though he is impressed by
Uni Social hat an stu- : ' ; : : s
Shelton described as He also emphasized the 4 in black enrollment next the caliber of those accepted,
rt elton ies as s as Coe
Rat } : ’ IY : oar and se nr é
much like Blood, Sweat, program’s. great possibilities ‘CHICAGO’ year a ; ane : woul like a enrol 4
nd Tears.” will, perform in for prémoting high-level re- In comparing applications substantial percentage of
Ms ' ¥ 3 - j H + * > Te st >
Love Auditori search. Nationally known rock group to perform.next, Friday night. to previous years, Regen sta- them.

¥
