Che Bauidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG
AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT
1S HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Edifors-in-Chief
JIM PHILLIPS, Business Manager

PAGE. FOUR MARCH 26, 1971

Behind Closed Doors

A college administrator recently mentioned to
us that the student movement on college campuses
for more student rights and greater student power
has been misguided. Rather than directing their at-
tacks on the beleaguered college administrators, stu-
dents should be combining their resources to assault
the true bastion of academic power, the faculties.

While we are not in complete agreement with
him (the administration by no means wears white

-hats), we do~See some merit in his words, particular-
ly when the faculty policy of closed meetings is con-
sidered. For the faculty, even though members con-
tinue to emphasize in rhetoric the necessity for open
communication between student and college, still
treats the student as a second-class citizen at David-
son, excluding him from the decision-making processes
that is Sa his life and lifestyle at Davidson. -

We-are-not saying that students should be allow-
ed in all faculty discussions and decisions; there are
some faculty affairs that are of no concern to stu-
dents. Yet it is important that students be represent-
ed at those faculty meetings where student affairs are
being discussed. 2

é Ideally, the faculty should control only the aca-
demic and educational affairs of the college, with stu-
dents and administrators, represented as a minority
vote in faculty meetings. The administration should
control only the administrative and financial affairs
of the institution, with student and faculty minority re-
presentation. And college policy concerning student
life should be determined ultimately by the students,
with faculty and administration represented.

Until such an ideal is grasped by all involved,
however, each group must respect and work with the
other, opening all possible lines of communication. It
is unfortunate that the faculty has not yet opened its
meetings to such an exchange of ideas.

When the faculty, for whatever reason, isolates
itself from open communication and dialogue with the
student, it creates an impenetrable barrier. Therefore,
if members of the college: community value the per-
sonal dialogue, mutual trust and equal responsibilities
necessary ‘in education, then they must also demon-
strate the courage and willingness to practice such
ideals. If these are not the goals of the college, then
the pretension of “community” should end.

On Setting Sites

After years of studies and reports, the board of
trustees has decided to act this year on several issues.

The latest decision is that of the new library site
which has been talked about for years with earlier
promises of completion this summer of an operational
facility.-It’s nice to know that we are going to have
a library where one doesn’t. get lost looking for the
periodicals, but the choice of the site of the present
college union is not at all the obvious one.

To tear down the Ovens College Union is a parti-
cularly ‘strange move at this time. The trustees just
last fall made.major changes in the social system at
Davidson, resting more responsibility than ever be-
fore on the union to fulfill its role as the center for
student social life.

Now, for the time of construction at least, the
union will be spread out across campus, one service
in Hodson Hall, another in the church, others in Cham-
bers. This hardly seems the best way in which to or-
ganize a center for campus social life. No definite
commitments have been made for a future union, ex-

t for the use of the Grey Library building.

e leveling of the present college union in effect
adds the money invested in the building to the 3.8
million dollars which the library will cost. That’s a
five: million dollar plus Nbrary we’re talking about
now.

_ The most serious implication which the new site
holds is the fate of the AED report which the college
received last year. The AED site, near the present
Guest-~dJouse, was rejected ‘because of the number

of buildings which would have to be torn down for —

construction, including one dormitory. _ .

The AED site did fit with the report, however.
“If the college were to expand! to the north, including
the possibility of coeducation, the AED site would be
centrally located, in a very disturbing sense, the
trustee committee vote signals a decision against such
expansion and the possibility of coeducation in the
near future. ale

DICK-ANDERSON - é

Laos Incursion Proves

»

Microcosm Of War

The South Vietnamese in-
vasion of Laos is in a way
a microcosm of the whole
war.

Admittedly southern Laes
had been conquered by for-
eign invaders (the- North
Vietnamese,
among. you) and was being
used by them to support
another war, aggressive or
not depending on one’s point
of view; the legitimate gov-
ernment of the country ~vas
at least not averse to inter-

ANDERSON

vention against the invader.
Yet it seems a shame that
yet another country must
further undergo the horrors
of full scale, modern con-
ventional warfare on the
American style, with lots of
artillery and bombers and
general destruction of the
countryside.

It is of course possible that
no civilians were still pre-
sent around Sepone (or Tse-
pone, or Tchepone — I wish
somebody would decide how
to spell it), having been
driven out when the North
Vietnamese took the town
after the Cambodian inter-
vention last year, but in the
rest of Laos it is Cambodia
all over again.

Cambodia was at peace
until the invasion. Now the
country shares in the turmoil
of the rest of Indochina, for
as a powerful force pushed

the Communists westward, ©

they had no real choice but
to take over more of Cam-
bodia from the legitimate
government. ‘

And because even Hanoi’s
manpower resources are hot

unlimited, they recruited na-'

tives to take it for them, by
using the well tested techni-
ques of the Vietnamese
experience. _

While Laos has not in re-
cent years been. at. peace, it
has also not been fully at
war. But with the coming of

the first ARVN’ to southern. .

Laos, the Pathet Lao and
North Vietnamese
jately. began pushing back
the Royal Laotian. Army to
get some breathing. space
in front of the South Viet-
namese. ye
Now the Pathet Lao’ ate
only-six miles from the royal
capital of Luang Prabang,
a city they have never held,
and instead of the 30,000

NVA estimated to be in that

country, there are now about
90,000. And as the Pathet
move forward, the refugees
again must move away, their
problem compounded by new
members.

Not only the Laotians are
in trouble. While our leaders

- one) a victory, the ARVN’s

for the ‘slow .

immed-

of. the ‘North Vietnamese-
Viet Cong strategy has been
the use of manpower to ex-
tend the fighting over more .
area than the government
forces could cover intensively
enough to perform the neces-
sary missions of counter-
guerrijla war. -

Laos operation plays
nicely into the hands of that
strategy. The government
has diverted its best soldiers
from .the necessities of pa-
cification to a conventional
operation designed to seize
an empty, foreign .town.

Furthermore, it committed
large forces.in an area far
blocked, they could destroy from its own main bases and
all ‘the remaining ARVN in right.next to the enemy con-
Laos, almost 19,000 men. And “ centrations, which were able
that could put Vietnamization to move easily to the scene
into the limbo now shared by and outnumber the South
the dodo and Barry Gold- Vietnamese forces three or
water’s presidential hopes. four to one.

Defeat, deception and de- And once again the U.S.
struction are characteristic has tried to substitute air
of the Indochina conflict, but power for infantry. I, sup-
the Laos picture is com- pose we are lucky that this
pleted by one more phenom- time only our allies are
enon prevalent in the Amer- catching the short end of that
ican effort: military stupidity stick.
reaching out for the wrong Actually the American
goals in the wrong way. public may have won some-

According to Sir Robert thing in Laos: because it is
Thompson, a British counter- his disaster and the’ decept-
insurgency expert whose ions are his lies, Richard
name occasionally comes up Nixon may have come closer
in connection with the war, to assuring his own defeat
one of the prime elements in 1972.

BOBBY ALLEN.

Offer Still Open

For Explanation |

No one accepted my offer
to use this space to explain
the closed faculty meeting
policy. Perhaps those who
might have-responded
thought the offer showy and
insincere. It was not. And I
repeat it: I offer this column
to anyone who wishes to ex-
plain the rational behind the
closed faculty . meeting
policy.

The response I did receive
was concerned primarily
with the incident I related
which happened last spring.
I’m sure it’s terrible journ-
alism to use a column to
clarify your previous one,
but I would like to clear up
a point which apparently
misled some people.

I mentioned having heard
some information through
the door of the Baxter David-
son Room during a faculty
meeting. I did not. mean I
pressed my ear to the door.

Ran and I were setting
across the hall ‘from the
door, but were still able to
hear some of what was hap-
pening inside. But the dis-
tance between my ear. and
the door on that May after-
noon, .or my flippancy (or
frankness—take your pick) is
secondary to this fact: Fa-
culty meetings are closed.

in Washington call the in-
vasion, or incursion, (pick

bez‘ troops are being whip-
ped all over the place.

For instance, one battalion
of, 540 men took 390 casual-
ties, which is 75 per cent.
Normally forty percent cas-
ualties is considered
sufficient to incapacitate a
unit for combat purposes.

The latest news is that the
North Vietnamese. have.
blocked Highway 9, along
which the ARVN must re-
treat to return to South Viet-
nam. If the northerners have
managed to keep the road

To my mind, no talk of
community government is at
all meaningful while college
policy is made beyond closed
doors.

About Rennie Davis. I’ve
been following (some weeks
behind since I get the
Davidsonian at least.a week
late) the debate over allow-
ing Rennie Davis to: speak
on campus. It’s all over by
now. He’s been and gone and
I assume the campus is still
intact.

Had I been sent an ab-
sentee ballot, I would have
voted against having him to
speak at Davidson. Not be-
cause he would hurt David-
son’s reputation, not because
I_disagree with his stand,
not. because of the use to
which his fee would be put,
but simply because I think
there are about 100 better
ways to spend $1000.

Call me a pro-crypto Nazi
if you like, but think how
much playground equipment.
it could buy for the kids
across the tracks, think of
the tutoring program it could
have established, think of
the equipmént it could buy
for the Davidson Day Care
Center. With all the things
we need in Davidson (the
town and the college) did we

Opening _ them involves a really need to spend $1000 to
change in the faculty con- be told what we had already
stitution, heard many times before?
