Ghe Bauidsonian
“THERE 1S ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS

THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAP-
PENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR OCTOBER 29, 1971

Davidson: 1984

A potentially dangerous situation has arisen in the
area of college governance in the form of the new by-laws
proposed last week by the Board of Trustees.

These new by-laws to the college constitution would
give the college president an overwhelming amount of
power and authority. Under the new rules, the president
would be given the power to suspend (but not veto) any
action of any campus organization, be it student or faculty.
Furthermore, all campus organizations must. under the
new by-laws, be chartered by the president, giving that
office the near-absolute power of deciding just what groups
may exist at Davidson.

Already one professor has informed us that he plans
to take legal action against the college for sefting up so
undemocratic a government. We are sympathetic with his
interests and support him completely, although our more
immediate and specific concerns are with the effects that
a campus governmental structure would have on student
organizations, especially those run completely by the stu-
dent.

To give anv individual so much power is to ask for
trouble, particularly on a college campus where students
are learning how to become independent individuals.

The new by-laws threaten us directly by giving to
the president enough authority to effectively hamper the
actions of any campus organization. Censorship. control
of the student voice. and loss of essential student freedoms
would not be far behind under such a system of goverance.

Therefore, we desperately urge the trustees to re-
consider such a policy for the sake of the college. For if
one man is given such power, a great part of what is good
at Davidson will be lost.

Designs On The Library

As fun as it is to have surprises, last week’s de-
cision by the Board of Trustees to delay the acceptance
of the library designs puts the pressure on to have new
drawings ready in February.

It seems clear that the trustees were nonplussed at
the design themselves. but the student and faculty reac-
tion to the drawings had to have a strong influence.

The Library Planning Committee would be well ad-
vised to consider allowing the students and faculty, aside
from those on the committee, to help select the final
plans next go around. In the spring it may be too late
for the trustees to send the plans back to the committee,
no matter what the popular reaction.

Autonomy Versus RHC

Last week’s article on the “progress” of the Residence
Hall Council (RHC) under the Alexander administration
has raised questions about the organization.

Davidson has a large number of organizations, some
of them fulfill useful roles. The RHC used to be one of
those useful organizations.

Peter Hobbie initiated open dorms through the RHC.
Tom Opie was the driving force behind the renovation of
the dorms and the creation of lounges in the freshman
halls. Cecil Burney provided another agency for social ac-
tivity on campus through the dormitories.

We personally concur with the suggestion voiced in
last week’s article that the RHC be dissolved and that
residents’ councils be set up in each dormitory. This sy-
stem permits the residents of a particular dormitory to
decide for themselves what they want to do. If Belk
wants to have an ice machine they can request student
government funds for the project.

Under such a system, we would urge that the funds
now allocated for the RHC be held by the senate but be
available, rather readily, when a particular dorm pre-
sents a project. This could be handled similar to the
Union’s Activity Grant Board.

_ There is no real good reason ‘in our minds for the
vice president of the student body to be RHC president.
Certainly we can think of some other way to make the
vice president a more contributing member of the reg-
ular senate without creating special posts on special com-
mittees for him to fill.-

We would like to see a breakdown of the expendi-
tures of the Residence Hall Council for last spring since
the money was indeed spent and there was very little to
show for it in terms of residence hall activities.

LETTER

Ligo Opposes Library Plans
As Contrary To Sensibilities

To The Editor:

I am writing this letter in the
hope that you will join me in
my opposition to the proposed
style of the new Davidson Col-
lege library. I was relieved to
hear that the Board of Trustees
found the architect’s plans un-
acceptable but I am convinced
that the architect should not
simply “revise” his proposal, as
requested by the Board, but
that he should start over again
in an entirely different archi-
tectural style.

1 believe that the new David-
son College library should re-
flect the developments that have
been taking place in twentieth-
century architecture and that
the library committee should be
asked to reconsider its initial
decision to make use of nine-
teenth-century forms.

in an open meeting in which
the architect's proposal was
made public for the first time,
two basic arguments were of-
fered in defense of the archi-
tect’s choice of style.

In the first place it was sug-
gested that it was important
that the building blend in with
the other buildings on campus:
in other words, that the new
building should not disrupt the
architectural harmony that has
been maintained throughout
nearly 150 years of Davidson's
history.

The second point of defense
centered around the fact that
the choice of style is a matter
of personal preference — that
since everyone’s sensibilities are
not the same, there were bound
to be those who disagreed with
the. Library Committee’s choice,
but in questions of individual
sensibility there are no abso-
lutes, so that every man’s (or
committee’s) decisidhn is just as
valid as anyone else's.

I agree in principle with the
first line of defense, that the
architectural harmony of David-
son College should not be dis-
rupted, but I would suggest
that there is a difference be-
tween harmony and monotony:
and I would suggest further that
a building could be designed
that would reflect twentieth-
century trends in architecture,
one that would not only ‘‘not
disrupt” but actually enhance
Davidson’s architectural _har-
mony.

I believe the second argu-
ment to be a ‘straw man.”
While it is true that individual
sensibilities cannot be judged on
an objective scale and are there-
fore incontestable, I do not be-
lieve that personal preference
can or should be the determin-
ing factor. ;

Architecture is not only a
matter of aesthetics, it is also
a matter of ethics; and | be-
lieve the ethical question to be
a much more important con-
sideration than personal prefer-
ence.

I would suggest that architec-
ture is, or at least should be,
an art form. While it is true
that architecture as an art form

These buildings can and do
serve an important function as
stimulators of our sensibliities.
But they are by definition in-
capable of developing our sen-
sibilities beyond the experience
of the men of the century in
which they were produced.

Given the general nature of
the human condition in the year
1971, i.e. our seemingly infinite
capacity to treat our fellowman
as if he were less than human,
I would suggest that it is mor-
ally imperative that we as an
institution of higher learning in-
sist that those who have de-
clared their desire to learn with
us be exposed as frequently as
possible to those ‘‘things” in the
world that will permit their
sensibilities to keep abreast of
contemporary developments.

And the place to start is with
the E. H. Little Library. It is
imperative that a “thing” which
is going to play such a large
role in the future of Davidson
Coliege should reflect the arch-
itectural forms of the twentieth
century.

is unique in that it must also
serve certain practical needs,
the fulfilling of these functional
and technical requirements on
the part of the architect con-
stitutes only two-thirds of his
task.

It may be that the proposal
subjected for our consideration
fulfills the first two categories
quite admirably, i.e. the func-
tional and the technical. In my
opinion, however, there is no
way in which the present pro-
posal can adequately fulfill the
third and most important re-
quirement: i.e. the aesthetic. It
is the fulfilling of this third re-
quirement that determines
whether or not the finished
product can be considered a
true work of art.

There are many definitions of
the word ‘‘art,” and there is
much disagreement as to what
constitutes its proper definition.
Regardless of the definition,
however, if the art object is to
fulfill the aesthetic requirement
it. must have a profound effect
upon the sensibilities of those
who encounter it. If the so-call- It should go without saying
ed art object does not have this that I am not suggesting that
capability, then it is not art. all ‘“‘modern” architecture is

The reason that the proposed **good.” ;
design for the library cannot, But to surround ourselves with
in my opinion, have a profound things that make us comforta-
effect upon the sensibilities of ble, that do not stimulate us, is
the Davidson community is that to assert that we no longer wish
it simply reiterates the archi- lo grow.
tectural statements that we al- Larry L. Ligo
ready have here. Davidson College

TODD HOBBIE

Underclassmen

Keep On Pledging

I was just sitting in the Union
Cafeteria, minding my own
business, when my eyes came
to rest on an object that I had
assumed to exist no longer.

There was no question that
before my very eyes, pinned
over the heart of a freshman,
was a fraternity pledge pin.

What can I say? I guess I
just didn’t read THE DAVID-
SONIAN well enough last year
to really understand the new
social setup.

The fact is, I've never been
what you would call pro-frater-
nity and there have been times
when t would have liked to
have taken an active part in
burning Patterson Court and
plowing the ashes under. But
times have changed and mild
nausea replaces what was once
latent violence.

Now I don’t want anyone to
get the wrong idea. Some of my
best friends are fraternity men.
But these friends were faced
with more of a dilemma when
the decision to join a fraternity

ficult to find.

1! guess what I’m trying to
say is that there was a time
when it was easy to be fooled
by a fraternity. It could hap-
pen to anybody. Now, it should
not be so easy to be fooled.
There are alternatives and the
alternatives are viable.

With all due bias I think a
freshman would have to be a
fool to join a fraternity at the
present. And furthermore, 1
feel that in the future the ques-
tion “Do you plan to join a
fraternity if accepted at David-
son?” should be placed on the
application for admission. -

Any applicant answering in
the affirmative should be im-
mediately dropped on the
grounds that such inclinations
are subversive to a progressive
college community.

As I bring this column to a
close I'd like to add a personal .
note. Few can understand the
sadness I feel on this occasion.

For this marks the end of
four great years in which my
reared its ugly, Greek, mystic reason to be has. been centered
head. around an overwhelming desire

At that time social life out- to see fraternities stomped,
side of a fraternity was hard mangled, cleated, kicked,
to come by. Independents were bludgeoned, gored, tortured and
still looked upon as being mis- left to die a slow painful death.
fits and semi-viable alterna- Really, I never have liked
tives to fraternities were dif- fraternities much.
