Che Bauvidsonian

“THERE (S ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT (IS HAP-
PENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR OCTOBER 15, 1971

The Affluent Senate

The allocation procedure for the student activity fee
annually raises questions not only of who deserves how
much money for what, but also that of who gets the money.

One difficulty which we see in the composition of the
board, is that the student delegation is composed entire-
ly of senate members.

This may be seen as a complication when the organi-
zations to be funded are considered. Of the $37,625 ap-
propriated this year, $6000 was allocated to the senate
itself. In size of appropriation this ranks third, well be-
hind the sum for the Quips and Cranks and close to the
funds for THE DAVIDSONIAN. This year’s senate bud-
get is up almost $2000 over last year’s.

This is not to be taken as a criticism of the senate’s
1971 - 72 budget. The additional expense is the amount
necessary to bring Dr. Meridith Hall to Davidson under
student funding, an undertaking which we have support-
ed in the past and which we continue to endorse.

Our question lies in the absence of any system of
checks on the senate’s ability to appropriate funds for
projects which they initiate.

The same senators who propose projects in the sen-
ate meetings late Tuesday nights are the people who de-
cide where the money goes in the fall. Short of a referen-
dum on each issue, hardly an efficient method of conduct-
ing a student government. the student body’s last voice
in what projects the senate decides to fund comes in the
election for senators.

In addition the senate controls nearly all of the funds
available for sponsoring student speakers. Although the
response from the senate for requests for these funds has
been commendable in the past, the recent votes on funds
for the moratorium speakers and for the YAF speaker
have shown that several senators are unwilling to appro-
priate funds for speakers who run counter to their ideo-
logical tastes.

Our suggestion to the senate would be to appoint non-
senate members, with as few ties to the organizations
seeking funds as possible, to the fee committee. In addi-
tion we would urge campus organizations which regular-
ly bring speakers to campus under senate funding to bud-
get an amount for such speakers so that speaker control
may become more decentralized than it is at present.

War And Peace

On the whole, the peace moratoriums of recent months
have not been particularly educational, entertaining, or
even innovative. Rather, they have dedicated their energies
toward other goals, attempting-usually successfully—to
stimulate, invigorate, and initiate some form of mass re-
sponse against the conflict in Southeast Asia.

Such programs have usually been exciting and at
times inspiring, but over an extended period of time unin-
formed and irresponsible enthusiasm has a tendency to be
transformed into either useless rhetoric or frustrated and
bitter violence, especially when no real accomplishment
is apparent.

Therefore, the low-key approach of Wednesday’s
moratorium activities was welcomed, for it offered to the
Davidson community the chance to sit back and deeply
evaluate and reflect upon the questions of war and peace
and the specific, historical manifestations of these pro-
blems.

To be sure, Wednesday’s activities were less exciting
than those of the past. There was less esprit de corps, less
destructive cynicism less of the paranoic spirit of revolt,
less interest and less participation. But perhaps these short-
comings, obvious after previous moratoriums of hot-head-
ed rhetoric and unthinking clenched-fist salutes. were ad-
vantageous this year, for the freedom they granted allow-
ed an impressive amount of rational and responsible re
flection and a deeper consideration of the alternatives to
war.

The moratorium had a different purpose, a different
approach, a different perspective, and a different struc-
ture from previous moratoriums. Rather than rallying its
participants like sheep around the banner to end war,
especially the war in Vietnam, Wednesday’s activities
merely attempted to maintain an active awareness of the
war and its manifestations. To a generation now tired of
empty epithets and worthless confrontations, such is cer-
tainly a relief. .

. The moratorium, then, must be considered a success.
Besides awakening and renewing a concern for the war,
it also brought to the campus several outside perspectives,
making the apathetic students of our isolated community
alive again to the question of war.

In short, Wednesday’s moratorium experience was a
mature, realistic, and hopefully effective movement to-
ward peace.

HOWARD RAMAGLI

Education ‘Game’ Needs
Change In Ground Rules

As the middle of the term
approaches, many have already
been faced with the academic
exercises of reviews and pa-
pers. Accompanying these ac-
tivities is the cry of the Honor
System against cheating and
plagarism.

Realistically speaking one
must consider the reason (or
reasons) that violations of the
sacred Honor Code occur. It is
safe to assume that the motive
is not the result of a desire to
learn, but rather the result of
a desire to make a grade.

Students have been condition-
ed to believe that their real
worth as intellectual achievers
is measured by their ability to
make a particular grade. They
have also been conditioned to
believe that it is the teacher
who is the best judge of the
student's intellectual prowess.

Unfortunately, teachers are
conditioned to believe that the
best method of evaluation is the
test (accompanied by a grade
that gives the student a ‘‘true”’
picture of his ability to learn).
Thus education has become a
game.

The game is modeled after
the American ideal of competi-
tion. The competition is sup-
posedly between students who
want the highest grades, but
really the competition is be-
tween the professor and the
Student.

The ground rules are very
simple. The professor knows all
and if the student doesn’t know
it the way the professor knows
it, he loses.

The classroom is the playing
field and the test is the method
of play. The grade is the in.
centive for learning, and the
goal of the game is supposed
to be learning. The goal is not
learning, for the grade has be-
come the alpha and omega of
the game.

Education must stop being a
game. It must again become

the medium through which peo-

ple can obtain the skills for
life-long learning. And educa-
tion must become personalized.

An evaluation system must be
designed in which the student
and the teacher are partners,
The evaluation must become
more subjective and take into
account what the student de-
Sires to learn, as well as what
the professor feels would be
beneficial to the student.

However, this evaluation sys-
tem requires more than just
the change in evaluation of an
individual’s __ intellectual pro-
gress. It necessitates that stu-
dents should have the oppor-
tunity to design their own ed-
ucational program.

Not all students know what
they want out of education. For
these students, some form of
Structured program is good.
Students who have some idea
of where they wish to go ed-

ucationally should not he pen-

alized by. being forced into a

structured program which does
not appeal to them.

There should be some process
in the educational system which
will allow a student to design
his educational program. At pre-
sent there are few such oppor-
tunities available. Too often
these opportunities have so
many obscure qualifying para-
phenalia that few students can
benefit from the programs.

Any evaluation of a student's
work, whether he has designed
the program or it is an already
structured program must be an
joint effort of the student and
the professor. There is no valuc
in a test, graded or ungraded.
that provides the student with
no feedback as to how well he
is learning.

The blame for the ‘‘grading
game” .does not lie wholly on
the teachers in the educational
system. In fact more of the
blame lies upon those partici-
pants in education, the students.

TODD HOBBIE

Students are so  grade-con-
scious that they no longer see
the real value of education. They
have no concept of the power
they hold to challenge the de-
educational system to provide
them with the kind of educa-
tion they want. Students pay
their money to let some institu-
tion tell them what they should
learn.

Educational institutions should
provide services to aid in the
educational growth of an_ in-
dividual. They should not pre-
scribe what is good for the stu-
dent. Students should demand
accountability in educational in-
Stitutions in satisfying the in-
dividual needs of every learner.

After all, students pay for
four years of education in a col-
lege so that they can obtain a
piece of paper which qualifies
them to become a membcr of
the human race. The college
should give the student the op-
pertunity to chose his path to
becoming a human being.

Detached Aetion
Works Wonders

Until about a week ago I was
beginning to really worry about
myself. My ego was rapidly de-
teriorating and along with that
any sparks of motivation were
few and far between.

The most I could get excited
about was drinking a Shurfine
Cola, smoking a King Edward
and watching Bela Lugosi on
the late show.

This week is no different from
last week except in one very
important respect. I’ve discov-
ered a whole new approach to
life and my ego has been re-
ported to be breathing again.

I suppose at this point I could
Say that I was ‘'saved” last
week and that's why life has
new meaning for me, but that's
not what I’m going to say .

That wouldn't be any of your
business anyway.

Last week I discovered de-
tached action and that’s why
life has new meaning. Detached
action is a philosophy of life
which, simply put, states that
all actions should be made with-
out concern for their results.

In other words, according to
this philosophy all goals are
wiped out and only the action
itself is important.

Now, ! hasten to add that I'm
Rulting a littie of my own slant
on this philosophy of action and
the Hindu people who adhere to
this philosophy probably weuld
not approve of its application
‘here.

Nevertheless, it’s donc won-
ders for me and I recommend
my type of detached action to
everyone.

Just think of the possibilitics.

imagine writing a paper or tak-
ing an exam without being con-
cerned with the grade. Imagine
applying to a grad school and
not caring whether you get in
or not,

Imagine taking a six day
weekend without worrying
about missing anything in class
or getting behind. It is really
unbelievable how many really
fine benefits this philosophy
could make possible.

However, there is one basic
problem that one must remem-
ber when adopting this philoso-
phy, that is, it doesn't work.

But anyone who is a senior at
Davidson knows that this is a
very minor problem. This phil-
osophy at Davidson, with a dif-
ferent name, hasn‘t worked for
years and still it‘s one of the
most popular philosophies on
campus today.

For many years it’s been
known as the Don't-Give-a-Damn
Method of Life, but that’s en-
lirely too negative a title for
Such a viable yet impractical
philosophy.

I will conclude without giv-
ing a hint as to how detached
action should be applied. I hap-
pen to think that is a very
personal matter. Besides, 1
don’t want to be responsible for
half the student body flunking
out,

Let it be sufficient for me to
Say that there is a golden mean
somewhere between “gung-ho”
and my “detached action.” Find
that golden mean and you've
got it made. .

By the way, I don’t care what
you think about this column.
