Vol. LXI No. Four

A TYPICAL VOTING DAY
Freshman Chip Jones instructs a voter on ballot procedure.

10 SGA Senators Elected;
Poll Supports Concert Fee

e Dauidsontan

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

member — of

for the Collene Union H
ed that
“roup,

Harrisburg 8

including — the

not the dormitories), co
granted beer permits i
enlist a person o
“manager

could

to act as

almost juny c

“Board end the eating clubs but

OCTOBER 1, 1971

Peace Coalition Secures $250
For Moratorium Activities

By TOM BRUCE charged with conspiracy to kid ing committee for due consid
Staff Writer nap Henry Kissinger, will speak eretior Bill Alexander then
ry . ison ° :
Ata Tuesday mecting of the on beth the Davidson and UN¢ moved that) Grey House re
Senate, 250 dollars was granted € came Ron Young. the ‘a preseptative be seated on. the
oe —_ tional Director of Youth Work ser " a n
to the Davidson Peace Coali f the Fell i. . ert thon vuting. advisory
Lich to secure two speakers for or the Fellowship of Recoacis capacity unul the draftinge com
“ \ 1 Oct Wa Mor ation, will speak at Davi tsor mittee can make the  offiene
we loce ic ar Mora °
torium In the course of debate over provisions
ori
: the droposal S 7 al
In pleading the funds. « proposa Senior Robert - 6
, . Morey. & member of the Youny
Peace Coalition members Ralph . id 7
5 Americans for Freedom, indi /
Peepies. Howard Ramagh and ‘ated that hI
Wilson Gunn disclosed that they eateg tae me is asvembling 9 °
\ 1 a pro Vietnam counter mora
hae already succeeded in. solic t o ict 1
orium oup which v )
iting mere than half of the ex gro Pp n . vue pre 7
. bably petition the Senate for
pense of the Moratorium from 4
funds to secure speakers whe
other sources, among them the .
7 will represent: their view
United Board and a cooperative ;
Venture with the University of In other action Senator Doug L I Ca e
(Staff Photo by Cambell) North Carolina Charlotte Rrown presented bis report on ~
Sister Elizabeth McAlister, a ¢fferts to request i beer perma!

e stat By DAVID HANIG
News Editor

new Eo HL Litthe Library

to be built on the site of the pre

uld be sent College will not be

{ thes a “Grecian temple with a dome

ver 21 according to D.-

ampus
Union The

Union

and columns,”

rector of the Library Chalmers
The Senate voted to instruct G. Davidson
Brown to act as an advisor to Final plans, which - ,
é é ans, are cur
By DON PARMAN in the dorm senator races was Perhaps the biggest surprise other groups who might apply rently being given” the last
Editor-in-Chief David Foerster’s first ballot vic in the elections was the margin for the perimit. since the Sen ouches, by the architect. call
tory the Cannon contest n the i i . ate nee , r = 1 ,
The Davidson student Senate he A ae ‘ un the social council poll. The ate eee ont pely tor the tt for the second Foor of the I
where took 74 per cent of question as to whether or not cense as a last: resort t rt ve t fr .
was brought to full strength th : > ; wary to extend out from the
e vole against tw ther » harge 3 a me 7 » ° _ " .
Wednesday with the election of nents ag o other of te on ee an idditional fee for The Senate Executive Com building so that there will be a
10 new senators. po . concert admission was approved mittee will shortly organize a covered arcade in the frent
5 hae 7 » > re
; sig soci Other first ballot victors in by a 425 to 90 vote. The result student referendum on the Accord.ng to Leland M. Park,
In a special issue a social ‘luded Steve LeResc * set is only t ve , . ;
cluded Steve LeResche, Wes S only to serve as an indica question of affiliating with the assistant director of the library,
council poll demonstrated con- Belk + res q le tien of student i , ar . -
vincingly student su rt for an elk: Gus Suceop. Senteile t of student opinion on the National Student Association the struccure will have about
added fe - : h oe . and David Craven. freshman issuc and does not serve to di- Davidsen has been associated one hundred thousand — square
adde e for concerts. . : Le
. ; cone cheerleader. rect social council policy. Elec- with the NSA for some time feet of floor space divided be-
In the biggest race of the In run-off elections Frank on workers indicated that a and the Senate felt that it was ween the ground floor, second
senate elections Steve Canter- Dana, the incumbent dorm sen heavy senior vote was cast. in time to catalog student” sent: floor, and basement: however,
bury led-the balloting for fresh- ator from Litile, lost to Danny favor of the issue ment on the affiliation only about 40 thousand square
man senators-at-large, amass: Berry by eight votes. Bo Phil Billy Colvin a precedent Declaring that there can be no feet will be available for use
ing 187 votes to win the presi- lips edged Larry Spears for the in the Sentelle election by be women's living unit) without a for books. the remainder being
dency on the first ballot. Also Richardson seat by the same coming the first upperclassman change in the Senate by laws used for maintenance and of-
elected to represent the fresh margin. to run for senate from a fresh Senator from the Grey House, fices.
man class were Bill Smith and John Douglas captured the man dorm. Colvin is one of a Danny Clodfelter sent Bill Park indicated that the entire
Robert Corlew. Center Belk seat and John Hor number of upperclassmen liv- Meier's motion to provide for Huilding will be carpeted, and
The most convincing margin nickel won the Watts spot ing in Sentelle basement such a Senate seat to a draft (See LIBRARY, p. 3)

Cornell ‘Ambivalent? On Coeducation

By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

Vice President for Finance and
Development C. David Cornell said
in a recent interview that he is
“ambivalent” on the coeducation
issue.

“I think I see both sides of the
coin on this issue,’ Cornell said.
“On the one hand I do believe there
is a place for the single sex school
in higher education, yet on the
other hand I see the advantages of
coeduation.”

Cornell stressed, however, that
there are a lot of questions in his
mind which have to be resolved
before he will take a definite stand.

“One of the basic questions
which particularly concerns me is
what are the financial implications
of coeducation?” he said. “Can we
afford to go coed, and after that
can we continue to support this in-
situation if it is coeducational?”

Cornell said that 500 women
cannot be superimposed on cam-
pus without raising the endow-
ment. The present per-student-en-

dowment amounts to $1.800. If the
college is to maintain this level but
increase its size it must add another
$9 million to the endowment.

“And this does not include costs
for additional dormitory facilities
and classroom space,” he said.

“What about the faculty-student
ratio?” he continued. “We .have
embraced this as a truism in the
quality of education we offer. If
we are to maintain our present
ratio we must add additional facul-
ty salaries to the budget.”

To finance the phasing of co-
education the college has four
alternatives, according to Cornell:
reduce the pre-student-endowment,
raise tuition, cut corners in the
academic structure or just hope
that enough money will find its
way into the college's coffers.

Cornell said that reducing the
per-student endowment and cut-
ting corners academically were un-
wise educationally, and tuition can
only be increased so far before the
college prices itself out of the mar-
ket.

“You never know about endow-
ment.” Cornell said. “Maybe we
should choose the last alternative
and just hope it works. I've seen
other colleges do this. Sometimes
they succeed and sometimes they
fail.

“Nevertheless, coeducation is go-
ing to be expensive,’ Cornell said

The vice president also is con-
cerned about the financing of the
college after the phasing is com-
pleted. Will the alumni continue
to support the school? What about
large donors; will they. be disen-
chanted with a coed Davidson?

“These are questions which we
are going to have to consider very
seriously before we make a_ final
decision on coeducation,’ Cornell

said. “We will have to study the
fund-raising patterns of similar
schools as Davidson which have

gone coed.”

Cornell also expressed concern
about the academic mix of the col-
lege. “I've talked to people at Yale
which says that it is a coed institu-
tion, but many up there say that

the school is still male with a few
women hanging around

“The Educational Policy Com-
mittee and the Budget. Building
and Ground Committee must look
at all these questions before a de-
cision on coeducation can be reach-
ed.” he said.

“Not only must we say that it
is academically and financially feas-
ible but we also have to come up
with a plan that works.” he said

Cornell cautioned students
against simplifying the coeduca-
tion issue to such an extent that
they ignore the difficult questions
that have to be answered. But he
also admitted that the issue must
soon be settled.

“The longer the issue looms in
front of us the more restless the

. Natives become,” Cornell said

“I don't want to be the bogeyman
on the issue of coeducation in say-
ing that it is not economically feas-
ible.” he said “But I do believe we
must approach coeducation in a
sensible manner both academically
and financially.”
