Page Eight April 16, 1971 he Davtheontan

I had hoped to speak at Davidson, as a pro-Amer-
ican, free enterprise Christian conservative.
> I have been speaking before civic clubs, mainly
rebutting positions such as those taken by the Daily
World, by Hugh Hester, by the Chicago 7, by ‘Nor-
man Cousins (World Federalists, USA) and by others
including Dr. E. I’. Patterson.

‘Dr. Patterson is encouraging students to join the
movement to besiege Washington, D: C. Rennie Davis
is one of the spark plugs of this movement “‘to bring
the ‘U. S. Government to its knees” (Evans and No-
vak, “Charlotte Observer,” March 10, 1970). The rad-
ical coalition met in Washington the weekend of Feb.
96-28, and PRESENT WERE REPRESENTATIVES OF
THE COMMUNIST PARTY. Dr. Patterson’s group
aimed at Feb. 23 “or later.” |

Following a couple of years of my rebuttals. of
Hugh Hester and Dr. Patterson in the “Charlotte Ob-
server,” Dr. R. R. Kineaid wrote me in December,
1970, inviting me to the campus to “chat.” He includ-
ed an invitation, with no strings attached, to lecture

invitation with Dr. Patterson. We at length agreed
that 1 would lecture on March 4, at 10 a.m. in the
Morrison Room. are ;

] explained to Dr. Kincaid, concerning the ‘“‘chat-
ting” invitation, that a 400 mile round trip to Davidson,

cal. You are encouraged to look up the word “chat”
in Webster’s New International. I did respond ;, by
inviting Dr. Kincaid to make such a trip himself; to
visit and look me over in my own home--~and “chat.”
‘He did not acknowledge the invitation. .

As for my lecture which didn’t come off, I feel
I had something to: offer the college following its
exposure to Julian Bond, "Norman Cousins, and Ren-
nie Davis—who was a platform companion of Hugh
Hester on April 12, 1970, before a group of clenched-
fist followers at Chapel. Hill.

Unfortunately | became ill. | notified Dr. Kin-
caid. He had been insistent that I leave all publicity
in his hands, after I had written THE DAVIDSONIAN
a letter for publication—the reason being the long
lap-e during which I could not get needed replies
from Dr. Kincaid-—needed to settle details and mesh
the Davidson appearance with my other speaking en-
gagements. x ;

At the end of one of these long periods of
silence, right after I wrote THE DAVIDSONIAN, Dr.
Kincaid quickly phoned me. The upshot of his call
was to ask me to withdraw my letter to the editor,
and to “trust him” to give me adequate publicity. He
was emphatic on the point that the best form of pub-
licity would be his personally telling his colleagues
of my coming talk, so they in turn could notify their
classes.

I had learned, by degrees, of the three media the
college uses for publicizing speakers and other com-
ing events—namely “Up ’n Coming.” ‘‘Announce-
ments,” and “(Month) at Davidson.” It seemed odd to

placed by Dr. Kincaid in a position secondary to “word
of mouth” publicity. I reasoned with him that there
were risks in his viewpoint—he could have an acci-
dent, or get ill at the wrong time FOR ME. And if he
then delegated this task of personally contacting his
colleagues, would his delegate do a proper job? But
he made a big thing out of his view, and his insistence
that I “trust him.”

‘I believe there are about 130 teachers and ad-
ministrators in the published September roster. It
would be quite time-consuming to verbally announce
a coming event to each of these. I would think the
use of the three time-tested media would do the job.
1 doubt if anybody makes a regular practice of per-
sonal contact with the 130, preceeding the appear-
ance of each of the many speakers and artists who
visit you. At any rate, I do not know if Dr. Kincaid
actually took the time to give me this saturation
“word of mouth” publicity. I do know that he pub-
lished my speaking date in “Announcements,” did
not. get it published in “Up 'n Coming,” and I believe
there was no issue of “April at Davidson.” Any pro-
fessor or administrator who was NOT personally con-
tacted by Dr. Kincaid will understand why I felt that
use of the accustomed media to the extent possible,
was appropriate ir my case, just as it was for Cousins,
Packwood and others I checked on.

After I phoned Dr. Kincaid about my illness, he

Editor’s Note:

if I preferred a larger audience. He had cleared this .

and an overnight stay, for that purpose was not practi- .

me that these three time-tested methods would be -

This is an advertisement paid for by
E. P. Thornton, Murrells Inlet, S. C.

said that he would be back in touch with me for
another engagement. date. Before long ‘he wrote me
a short letier, from which I quote: “Because of other
demands on my-time this term, I shall be unable to
reschedule your visit here.”

I was beginning to think that I might have to use
the columns of THE DAVIDSONIAN to make some
conservative points. I wrote a brief letter asking for
ra‘es on display advertising space. I was quoted.

Shorey afterward my phone rang again. It was
Dr. Kincaid. He said he had very little influence, not
even a close acquaintance, with THE DAVIDSONIAN
staff. But in some way he had found out that I made
a simple inquiry about advertising rates. He asked
me point blank if I intended to write about him.

This blunt approach was something new to me.
I remarked in ‘he course of our conversation, that
it was not his right to censor, or even to become in-
quis‘tive,. ayout how I might be planning to spend
my own money. Ie had already withdrawn his spon-
sorship. That book appeared to be closed. I was forced
to tell him frankly that MY business with THE DA-
VIDSONIAN was none of HIS business—although. he
was seeking to make it his.

This was the second time he had sought to keep
me from using THE DAVIDSONIAN. I took an un-
appreciative view of his attempt to infringe upon my
right of freedom of speech.

At any rate, he than seemed to be able to find
time to reschedule me. We left it that he would write
and offer me several alternate dates, so I could avoid
conflict with my other speaking engagements, and
that 1 would, after receipt of his letter, make a de-
cision.

He wrote on March 26, and I quote the entire
letter: “Because of my other commitments and because
our relationship has developed into that of adver-
saries, I believe we should not proceed any further.”

eI do not know how much time is required to
arrange for the use of Morrison or some other public
room, and to phone or visit, on a small campus, ‘the

“three media and arrange for the time-tested publicity

notices. It is obvious that Dr. Kincaid has vascillated
somewhat in the matter of being ‘“‘too busy.” I believe
the matter does indeed boil down to the “nitty-gritty”
of the “adversary relationship.” i
After Dr. Kincaid first approached me on December
15, 1970, Dr. E. F. Patterson joined with 15 other

‘sponsors of an advertisement in the “Charlotte Obser-

ver” of February 12. It's purpose was to raise money
and attract supporters for making mass visits to Wash-
ington “on February 23 and subsequent dates.”

It is by now well known that Rennie Davis was
one of the mainstays of this “March on Washington”
movement, and that he met in planning sessions with
many other persons and factions, INCLUDING THE
COMMUNIST PARTY, to arrange the campaign to
pressure our government into ending the war on a
basis favorable to the communist aggressors. His plans
are being raucously backed up in the colunins of the
communist “Daily World.”

I have newspaper and other accounts of Rennie’s
fanatical efforts, and his advocacy of disruption and
anarchy to achieve his goals.

As I now review these exhibits and the Kincaid
correspondence, in perspective, I can only conclude
there was never a time when Dr. Kincaid and I were
not, to some extent, ‘‘adversaries’. He wrote to me
on February 15: ‘‘We have very few people on campus
who hold what I think are your views —.” From this
you will see that there was an “adverse” underlying
attitude toward me, quite early. How would one man
who had never met me know what my views are on
ONE WORLD GOVERNMENT, on the CONNALLY
AMENDMENT, on the GENOCIDE TREATY, and other
vital matters, when I had never expressed them within
that person’s sphere of awareness? a

True, he did_know that I am against Communisn
and what dangles from it. In such a chain as Rennie

. Davis meeting with communists to plan the disruption

of our government; Hester speaking from the same
platform as Rennie; Patterson editorially championing
Hester. And Patterson advertising for money and men
to abet Rennie in his pressure tactics. Does Dr. Kin-
caid speak with authority when he charges that nearly
everybody in the college is a link in this chain, and
that “few” share my opposition to such things? If he
is right, then at Davidson there is the danger of another
Berkeley take over by communists and anarchists.

The remainder of Mr. Thorton’s advertisement
will appear on the last page of next week's issue of
THE DAVIDSONIAN. We regret that technical pro-
blems and limitations of space precluded running the
entire advertisement on this page.

ties

—e

