G the Bavidsoniate April 9, 1971 Page Nine

Pikas Squeeze Past Spiking SPEs

By HOWARD BOYD ing of Buzz Tarver and Lar- were forced to play a_sec- ed back with a 15-6 romp in It was a good comeback, but
Sports Writer ry Spears, had won the first ond match before copping the second game. our defense needs some
7D0 Tiben once ody B 10:14 match 15-12, 15-13, handing top honors. The third game was_nip- work.”

victory over the SPEs in the the Pikas their first loss in ‘The SPEs made it three in and-:uck, and the score was
third game of the champion the double el'mination tour- a tow in the first game of tied I4-all with the SPEs Questioned SHOU nese
ship match Tuesday night to ney. the final match, 15-12, but serving, when Graham made © ons peaoeut regedit tote
capture the IMAC volleyball Thus the Pikas, who had behind the play of Gary Sci a saving scoop shot to give shel replied that “‘we lost all
title. i addled { SPEs with. their bal, John Pecorak, and Gor the Pikas the serve. ‘They baa sybase by Ss brute last
The SPEs, behind the spik- only ae in a previous match, don Graham the Pikas roar- scored immediately to wrap year, but if our defense jells,

we could give everyone a

up the. champ onship. ry
good run.

The ATOs captured third

place int the tournament, Hudson said he looks for
while the Sigs garnered the SPEs and Pikas to be
fourth, the top teams in League B,

Meanwhile, IMAC. softball While the Delts rate the nod
sot. underway” with three in League A.

games on Monday.
Centerfieldar Jim Hudson ®
lashed a two-run. single in

In o her games Monday,
the-Sits—blasted the KAs 9-9
and the Gamms won. over
the NUs on a forfeit.

the bottom of the seventh,
Capping a seven-run- rally
and propelling the Machis to

i 11-10) tri } ver East
1 0 triumph over Eas foece? Club

Hudson's hit plated Kelly

McKee with the running run, Sponsors Film

Junkballer Phil Dotts. went

the distance for the Machis, The Davidson soccer club
while Mitch Purvis was will sponsor a film of he
tagged the loss. British championship soccer
The hard-hitting Hudson, a match fiom 1966,
prime candidate for league The film was made, by
all star honors, also smashed the British 3: oadcasting
a solo homer and another Company, and shows the
singte, while John Saunders, match between the Ene-
Herb Clegg and Reif Kessler lish and Scotch teams. the
each collected two hits for vear England won the World
the winners, Cup.
(Staff photo by Lyle) Asked about the game, The film will be shown at
SPIKED VOLLEYBALL oe Hudson commented ‘we 9 p.m. Sunday and again at
A SPE defender returns a Taus shot in the semi-finals of IMAC play. were pleased with the win, 8 p.m. Tuesday in Perkins

Auditorium,

Pierce Makes Collegiate Track Debut sii uhs

film. is intended to give stu-

- dents some idea of how soc
By ERIC VERNON disastrous with the Cats los man for Terry Holland's bas a matter of having nothing cer is played and an intro-
Sports Writer ing 90-50, il marked the de- ketball squad for three years else to do.” duction to the strategy of
Though the recent David. but of Davidson's newest thin but this is his first effort at Pierce said he had. never the game,
; x ‘ ae bs om ah ih Pe PY Ppt irtin tes met
son-Pembrake track meet clad Billy Pierce. collegiate track, worked out before last Thurs The film is being financed
ay ave Yay j pets} + i Jerce as ave c i } , \
may have been little short of Pierce has played as point Against Pembroke, he pac day's meet, \ by priv ate e contrihutions,
ed fifth in a field of six in ,=& ; " ee a

ay , . the 880 yard run with a time
Sp orts Spotlig ht Te atau a | Sherrill’s Jewelry

avids as added Appa- : ‘ Pe third for Davidson with «a
ree e a etal ae Pavigeon gridaers Ne 2:02 in the same event,
play their annual spring
ONT game this year against an
all-star alumni team.
The game will be played

Watch & Jewelry Repair
Pierce had run little track Davidson, N. C.
before coming to Davidson,

According to Tom Scotts
director of athletics at Da-

|
|
|
only participating in two |
meets in high school and jun- |

|

|

vidson, the Wildcats will May 22 at Davidson. ‘ae Kien
1e achi: t-.9 iS i on.
meet Applachian Oct. 2. This is the first year a var- In high school Pierce and
THey will play in Memorial sity-alumni game. has been :
Vievrvieedhec 5 : his brother Don were liter
Stadium in Charlotte. scheduled, the spring gafne peer anne
; ; aly UA i} i ;
Appalachian is. being con- usually being an intra-squad Bi re
: ; 2 1V was Pe JONSIDIC or
sidered for admittance to the contest. ” ad ee
Southern Conference next the 880 yard run, the mile
ear ; run, and the broad jump.
: : The sscecer club will host Don ran ihe 100 yard dash
EAR es one of the Charlotte . ama the 220 yard dash, and the
teur clubs for a game Apiil 440 ydrd dash. they were- |
Freshman football coach 17. Hot on ie Wille relay veatns
Gene McEver was_ honored 1
P : . # : In their one - meet career, |
as an alltime all-American Hag ue ant At sects
by -the Phi Gamma Delta Last week Rick Pipan, a won a He 7 ¢ ay
fraternity last week.: pitcher for the Davidson Reis aie ey meant ne
The award was presented baseball squad, was named they had ct the re rack.
by Varsity coach Dave Fagg Sportsman of the Week by oe 3 ee the school lack-
in a ceremony at Davidson. ‘the “Greensboro News.” ca a track.

Track coach Sterling Mar-

eens

tin first became interested

1971 GRID SCHEDULE for ee a i he A four-letter word your parents

tice is Tr ing for pre-bas-
SITE TIME ced h running
DATE OPPONENT te ketball contitioning. After should approve of.

Pierce won the 660 yard run

4 ; ney J lang Sale 7: 3( :
Sept. ‘ Hh tas U. ae, i 30) ca he (reece tees mle
1M ‘ Jexington, a. 6 : 1 tuaale AAA
; ; d in IMAC traek Martin
2 William and Mary Williamsburg, Va. 1:30 ae | re io iol te ak
Oct. | 2 Appalachian S. U. _ Charlotte err Rian say whattiah I can a e y evro e 0.
9 Bucknell U. Lewisburg, Pa. 1:3 Sef Sumner” | ‘i
’ > 1 ana Data erg! 9 got my time, down or not,
ce 16 Furman er . eat lang Shy (ey ; Dierce stited. ‘That's really, Your Authorized |
3 . ae College Bye : one of the reasons I'm run | Davidson - Cornelius Chevrolet Dealer
5 3 pen ning. to see he ‘ell I can |}
Nov. 6'E. Carolina U. — Greenville ~ 2 Pease ans MOORESVILLE, N. C.
13 Richmond U. Davidson 1:30 c ie See io Dealer License No. 1407
P sey pS 1:30 #2 ° I'll beable to work more ;
20 The Citadel Davidson ; gn punning? fies said now 136 N. Broad St. Phone 892- 106

that basketball is over. It’s

