Che Dauidsnntan

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT [S HAP-
PENNING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR OCTOBER 1, 1971

Beer Is For The Living

The question of a beer permit for the student union
raises questions more fundamental and far reaching than
those involved in this particular issue.

First, we believe that the beer permit is a valid option
the college may exercise. The college has recognizd that
any number of the students on this campus drink beer,
be it out of cans that they are served from at Hungry
d’s or up the road at Hattie’s. The college permits drink-
ing in the fraternity houses. the dormitories, and in select-
ed areas in the college union.

The trustees and the administration no longer seem
to ‘consider consumption to be one of the Presbyterian
deadly sins.

The chief reason for the application for a permit is
the convenience angle. If the social council does make
application for a permit, it is not on the grounds that
they hope to make a lot of money. It is to make it more
convenient for those who bring their own beer to the
check in at the bar now.

The questions which the administration has raised
over the issue are just that, questions. There has been
no direct opposition to the idea of a beer permit.

The reluctance of the administration rests primarily
on the reaction campus sale of beer would have on the
college’s image in Charlotte and Davidson as well as with
the alumni. We are happy that the administration is
‘concerned with these long range implications, but they
also have an obligation to the one thousand students here
now to carefully consider the immediate benefits.

The environment at Davidson is the environment
that the students must live in, not the environment that
Charlotteans and alumni must bear. If the students wish
to have beer sold on campus, and the senate has reflect-
ed that opinion, the administration should be primarily
disposed in that direction unless they have objections to
the sale of beer as apart from off campus reaction.

Where the living environment is concerned, the first
concern must be for the living.

The Sword Of Damocies

Although the issue has not vet broken through the
surface of the Davidson political consciousness, the whole
question of representation and student government is
hanging above our collective heads like Damocles’ sword.

In the most recent case concerning representation in
the student Senate, officials (SGA President Danny Clod-
felter and Senior Class President Bill Lear) skillfully
handled a request for representation from coed residents
of the newest “dorm,” Grey House. In essence, Clodfelter
and Lear decided for constitutional reasons that the coeds
could not be given a senate seat. However, the elections
officials promised the women that, if some viable alter-
native could be found, it would be activated immediately.

Such requests for representation in the legislative
process of the SGA cannot always be so easily denied,
for such refusals will not always be so graciously accept-
ed. Already there are grumblings from the off-campus
students and married students, who because of the student
constitution are afforded no senate seats. Both groups are
making valuable contributions to Davidson in other areas
of student activity, and feel they deserve recognition and
a voice in student governing matters.

On the Union Board, for example, a married couple is
handling the artist series. Former columnists for THE
DAVIDSONIAN have lived off-campus but have offered
an interesting written perspjective for other students. Pre-
sently one off-campus columnist also heads up an import-
ant function for the Union Board at the time. Do any of
these people seem unworthy of representation?

Furthermore, with the new emphasis on’ cooperation
and interrelation between the various elements of the
college community, it would make sense to have faculty,
administrative, and maintainence representation as well.

We suggest that a reevaluation of the present policy
of representation in student government is_ drastically
necessary. This will involve time. effort, and energy from
all involved in student government and student life, but
the results should be well worth it. It I$ good to hear that
Clodfelter has already started the necessary procedures

for such a change.

‘Do-Goodism In The Streets’:
Are Classrooms Any Better?

What is worth learning? What:
- environment is the most con-

ducive to learning? How is
learning accomplished in the
ideal learning environment?

Such questions as these are
important when evaluating ex-
periential learning. Just how
does ene determine the validity
of service activities as an alter-
native to classroom learning?
Certainly not by passing off
such activities as ‘‘do-goodism
in the streets” as Dr. Abram
has done.

While his intent may have
been good, his slurring of the
issue aroused the fear that he
too considered studeats second
class citizens. The feeling ¢hat
students do not know what is
best for them is still inherent
in our educational system.

Later on in his speech Dr.
Abram said that education must
be able to “match” the man.
Should not the process by which
a man is educated also be made
to ‘‘match.”’ Surely learning by
experience is as valuable to
some as spendnig five days a
week in classrooms.

Students today are tired of
the education built for in-breed-
ing into an already sick society.
It is an education of the past,
geared for the picture. Educa-
tion is not aware of the present.

‘If a man must be certified of
knowledge, why cannot he be
certified in knowledge of what
is around him; the knowledge
of oppression, and suppression
of ghettoes, of hunger, of hate
and love.

The cry for relevance from
Students is not just because the
present educational system is
strangling them. The reason for
the boredom is that students are
required to be academicians,
not human beings.

Students are to void them-
selves from feeling and apply
themselves objectively to the
task at hand. This dehumaniza-
tion of education is the fault of
the professor who cannot make
his subject come alive for the
student. And the professor is
really not to blame, for he was
trained in the methodology of
the classroom, not the method-
ology of learning.

Experimental learning is a
way to return the feeling to ed-
ucation. It is a way for the
Student to be human by being
involved with his fellow man.
It gives him an opportunity to
feel what it is like to live in a
ghetto.

Dr. Abram has placed learn-
ing by’ experience second on the
list.. It should be first. Class-
room learning is a deadend for
most. The key to the success in
in a classroom is the professor,

and there are few professors’

left who really love their sub-
ject and can convey this ex-
citement of experience to stu-
-dents.

Students must leave the class-
room, especially in the social
sciences. They must look for
their learning experiences in
the world around them. They
should however, supplement
their experience with the read-
ing of pertinent material.

The purpose of the supple-
mental reading is to help the
student to understand better his

experience. This is where the
teacher comes in. Of course it
would be nice if the professor
had some actual experience in
the field, such as living in the
ghetto. Unfortunately few have
such experiences.

The purpose of experiential
learning is to help the student
find out who he is. It gives him
an opportunity to act on an
interpersonal level, not on a
servant to. master level.

LETTER

College is not the place where
the student only gains more
knowledge. It must be the place
where he can sort through what
he has learned and determine
what is valid for him.

College must not be a refuge
from the world, which it is now.
Rather it must be a stepping
stone toward giving the student
the abliity to live effectively
and in harmony with his fellow
man in the world community.

Abram’s Speech
Lacks Solutions

To The Editor:

My reaction to Morris
Abram's speech at the convo-
cation last Wednesday is dis-
tinctly ambivalent. On the one
hand, I cannot help but ap-
plaud the direct and pertinent
manner in which his remarks
faced up to the problems of
higher education.

He said many things that
badly needed saying. How re-
freshing it is to know hear a
man in Abram's position say
that the primary purposes of
academic institutions must be
academic: that schools are
creating a new class conscious.
ness; that many, if not most,
college graduates have an ed-
ucation of discouraging super-
ficiality: that we must evaluate
formal education by the ability
and desire to learn which it
produces after it is terminated:
that many students are being
*‘shoehorned by social pressure
into an education which does
not fit:” and that discipline and
diligence are a prerequisite to
many kinds of learning.

Yet upon reflection I wonder
if Dr. Abram went far enough
with his criticisms. Far more
questions were raised than an-
swered.

He recognizes that we are ad-
dicted to schools. (Not only have
attendance figures mushroom-
ed; I recently read that at the
present rate, life expectancy and
school-leaving age will intersect
within a decade!)

And he discusses the mean-
ing of the ‘‘mania for higher
education.’ But what does this
imply about our society? Aren't
we making school an all en-
compassing initiation rite?

Haven't the pressures of so-
ciety created in the modern
university an institution which
is altogether different
ture and role from any previous
institution of learning?

In the developed countries, ed-
ucalion has come to be con-
ceived of as a product which
is packaged and delivered sole-
ly by schools. This has been so
only a very short. time in the
history of western education.

We live “in a society in which
class is determined not so firm-
ly by family or service as by
college degree and carnings.
Morever, earnings, at least in
initial employment, are related
to college degree rather than
the ability of the applicant.”

This is obviously true, but why
has it come to be true? What
does it imply abuot the school-

in na-

oriented mentality of our so-
ciety?

Pr. Abram recognizes the
problems of the university, but
neglects the rest of the school-
ing process of which it is a
part. Students spend 12-14 of
the most formative years in
school before they ever enter
college, though college admin-
istrations and faculties seem
unaware of this fact.

All the evidence I have seen
seems to indicate that the most
important period is not the col-
lege years.

Dr. Abram spoke with ap-
proval of ‘‘compelling’  stu-
dents to learn. Now discipline
and hard work are vital for
learning; indeed, drill and mem-
orization can be invaluable for
some kinds of learning.

But these methods can only
be successful when combined
with an honest, disinterested de-
Sire to learn. The theory that
learning can be compelled is
itself responsible for the flood
of basically unmotivated stu-
dents which has led to so many
problems.

Formal education at all lev-
els is presently under great cri-
tical fire, but most of the criti-
cism is far, too shortsighted in
considering the implications
and causes of the current crisis.

The “expectation gap,” the
highly mampulative corporation
or agency which creates an ever
increasing demand for its own
goods and services, conspicuous
and. ever increasing consump-
tion, the myth of progress: —
there are many indications that
these diseases of our civiliza-
tion are inherent in the struc-
ture of our schools, the repro-
ductive organs of society.

As I have tried to show, Mor-
ris Abram did not go far be-
yond an examination of symp-
toms in his speech last Wed-
nesday morning. Nevertheless,
the principle criticisms which
he offeréd form a strong and
cogent ‘challenge for genuine—
aS opposed to cosmetic—reform.

This reform. must radically
change the present role of
schools in society if they are
ever to be effective education-
ally. They must serve not so-
ciety, but the individual.

Then perhaps schools at all
levels may once again be insti-
tutions which serve those who
wish to come together for the
sake of learning.

Jon Jewett ‘72
Davidson College
