— | . ; o 2

Che Bauidsonian
“THERE 1S ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT !S HAP-

PENING.” —Marshelt McLuhan.
RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager
PAGE FOUR APRIL 7, 1972
e
Coeducation

“Coeducation At Davidson College” 1s a document
which will radically alter the future character of David-
son for the better. It is indeed fitting that such a his
torical document was authored by Associate Professor of
History W. Brown Patterson. the chairman of the Subcom-
mittee on Coeducation of the Educational Policy Commit-
tee. Patterson and the other members of the Coeducation
Subcommittee (Assistant Professor of English Charles L.
Cornwell. Assistant Professor of Biology David C. Grant.
Professor of Economics Charles E. Ratliff, and Senior Jody
Turner) deserve the praise and gratitude of the entire Da-
vidson Community. The Coeducation Subcommittee acted
with dispatch and care. It has presented solid arguments
on the need for immediate coeducation.

“Coeducation At Davidson College” still must be adopt-
ed by the faculty. It is hoped that the report will meet its
approval this Tuesday. ;

We are giad to learn that there will be an open meeting
for faculty and students to discuss coeducation Monday
afternoon. There are undoubtedly many questions on the
part of students and faculty. and this open meeting should
serve as the proper means for the exchange of views and
information.

There is no way to ascertain how the trustees will vote
on coeducation. if it is approved by the faculty. Our op-
timism is tempered bv the realization that the trustees
could disapprove the plan. The more likely danger. how-
ever. appears to be the possibility of the trustees radically
altering the present coeducation plan. Coeducation is so
close. yet so far.

All the constituents of the College Community have
been consulted. and the majority of faculty. students, alum-
ni and staff favor coeducation at Davidson. The next few
weeks will demonstrate whether these constituents are
willing to act on their beliefs.

A Call For Sanity

With this issue we conclude our series on “Campus
Governance: Crisis of Authority.” The purpose of the ar-
ticles is to introduce the problem of campus governance
and sketch some of the main issues involved in this ques-
tion.

Governance is probably the most complex issue David-
son faces at this time—even more complex than coeduca-
tion. The difficulty centers around the completely differ-
ent outlooks of the constituencies involved.

While students feel the administration is impersonal
and sometimes incompetent. thev look upon the faculty as
the major obstacle to progress. Students feel they might
improve this situation if thev are given an increased role
in decision making.

The faculty at times are annoyed with student whining
for more power. but their main concern is with a tyran-
nical administration. They have not been consulted on
many issues, and they have been ignored bv the adminis-
tration in many academic decisions. The faculty have very
strong feelings that they should have a dominant role in
campus governance, and thev resent new vice presidents
trying to come in and run things.

The administration stereotypes the faculty as a bunch
of old senile men who want to maintain total control of
the institution. Thev hope to resolve the current difficul-
ties in governance by striking a balance between faculty
and students. and by clarifying just what decisions the
administration has a right to make.

While this is an over-simplification of the positions of
the constituencies, it does indicate the degree of mistrust
and factionalism that pervades the campus.

At present the administration, students and trustees
seem interested in experimenting with a new governance
system, but the faculty seems unwilling to negotiate.

We find this to be somewhat paradoxical. As long as the
faculty continues to retain the faculty constitution, they
will continue to lose power to the administration. The fac-
ulty constitution does not provide for any check on the
administration. An appeal to the board of trustees is un-
likelv since faculty-trustee relations have been somewhat
strained in recent vears.

Thus the faculty has more to gain by switching to a
new form of governance such as the College Assembly. In
such a situation the faculty can very effectively check ad-
ministrative power and halt its growth.

It is clear that the stalling tactics which the faculty
indicate they p!an to use will be of no benefit in the jong
Tun, and could very well damage their position. We hope
that al] coustifuencies including the administration and
the students will enter the governance deliberations with
renewed scse of compromise and a willingness to nego-
iate.

ALAN BARAGONA

Moray The Eel Picks Nits
As Bombast Withers Olive

Most wondrous of wondrous
sights on the postnight campus
Whilst out for my postnightly
constitutional \4 a.m.. of course:.
being engrossed in J. Edga:
Booger’s newes! book. Masters
of Bombast.” I unknowingly
wandered into the mysterious
confines of Pattersonhenge. an
anciennt cromleck of long-aban
doned ruins. immediately I was
put on my guard. for the Fathers
of the Old Davs had warned us
of the evill that takes place after
midnight among these barrow.
like remnants of forgotten pag-
anism.

But the Dark Powers of an-
cient times ofter. still lurk in

BARAGONA

our very backyards. under our
very noses, beneath our very
beds. At first I noticed nothing.
A mist seemed to surround all
Pattersonhenge. Soon. however.
eerie lights began to penetrate
the fog. and I knew that within
the protective covering lay A
POWER MIGHTIER THAN ALL
DAVIODSON!

Wary as the teachings of
Numb Elroy had made me. I
aproached the lights. drawn by

LETTERS

sheir mysile power, ur wie pes -
er that lay behind them. As 1
e‘tered the fog. all became a°
once clear and fantastical. S\*
grea’ bonfires blazed io a tnag-
‘¢ circle with a seventh. the
larges:. measuring two hundred
hands. aflame in the middle.
Looming out of this seventh
bonfize was a giant cross fron
which hung the withered heads
of Frazxklin Delano Roosevelt.
John Lwdsay. Paul MeClosky.
and the now silent Senator Row-
land.

No: only this, but sights more
wondorus to mec: the eye: Tne
whole of Davoidson scemed 40
have come to Hiiel Filteot: oan
lrees. staunch. cleensnayven, at:
full of The Rot. daneed wildly
‘oa circle. chanting ‘!Yes, ves.
yes.” Interweaving with the chu
trees’ circle. same twenty thonn
bushes led by a heavy-browed
olive tee daneed gleeiully.
chanting “No. no. no.”

“What could have brevghi
those things to hter thocaht |
‘in such confusion?" Then, my
answer.’1 saw Pimselt. stand
ing Druid-like. arms ra‘sed to
the gods of Things Public. Res
Publicae emblazored actoss his
chest, 1 saw him. Behold A
POWER MIGHTIER THAN ALI.
DAVOIDSON! Bohol VORAS
THE EEL!

“Mark me. Olive Trev!” shoit
ed Moray the Eel. flourishing
ms sable robes. catehing the sa:
tanic flames in the depths of his
eyes. “Thou and thy henchbush.
es cease thy pricking! Noughi
but twelve of thee can danec in
the unholy circle! Iam A Paw.
ER MIGHTIER THAN Al1.1. DA
VOIDSON!”

“How so. thou squirming pe)-
liwog?”’ retored the olive trec
Then Moray the Kel'drew trom
his ample robes dis previously

~orais. in which he held
(ee: © Reberts: Ghouls or
Lou treergecal Stop

so, QO werk rested onet

” Joan? sre. Robert the
Hed. Terrer of the Grange. has
-.erked well the hours of your
i tgemen’s masucal awaken
ing-. and. only twelve have
Ganuced tor the filteen eycles of
ti: noon which our foredemons
ave Sot down. All others came
fife Usree and a half seconds

eden te qeenkify'”

‘ARs. O piexer of rits! Yet I
“ > Dieaw Chat this. coven has
> ane ce. Uni it is Supernat.
sal. Op: Paet with Beelzebub
wee sen chere
isntoan | Sliver in the
sa.td. ath woe — kenow well
1. itt the seerecy of the Gay.

t bevan the Sacred bonfires
vb ta Stoves!” Moray the
Dae | ~ «. ned a moment but
malin @ouje tt bis foliowers 10
owe Fearn.

“Nir W. hlord.” nterrupted
uw ) tirtdurly rotcn elm, ‘I
too oa 4 tom to inove. to
4 the metion to question
“he print of order stated in the
u.aird chapter of par. 9.~
“ery wellj' said Moray the
VL &That of course means
Wt ave: mas’ question the re
v-sion uo. the ninth chapter +
prof a7~ Ard with this ancien
‘Neanta inn, Moray the Fel. A
PORER RIGISTTER THAN ALL
JACOBS. osteo Mel oo
contu ioo, cheap rhetorie, and
“J.ndness. wor his foltowens.
is the }. mbast filled the air.
he f ren:trit their powers, and,
| leu’ .4 a sort of amused
‘son... J conld see the ob
‘rece ind his thorns going
ado) ovtbtyates ther own gat-
dei

Davidson Lauds Rabil
For Calendar Changes

To the Editor:

I wish to commend the Fac.
ulty Executive Committee and
the erstwhile Senator Rabil for
the change in starting date of
next year’s win:er term. There
is a surprising measure of sound
reasoning behind it.

T do wish to remind Dr. Bevan
that he had better start prepar-.
ing his revised school calendar
very shortly. By past reports
on such matters I believe that
should he submit it and have it
approved by mid-term. say Oc-
tober, of this coming fall term.
this year's freshmen might see
it enacted by their senior year.

After all there are al! those
football and basketball games
which must be worked around.
The schedules for the next two
years have already been fairly
well worked out. ,

John Davidson ‘72
Davidson College
To the Editor:
On opening my Davidsonian

of March 31 to the cditorial
page, I was pleased to find two
humor columns instead of one.
Along with Alan Baragona‘’s de
lightful Mott the Woppte. | saw

the funniest article vet to ap-

pear in the Davidscnian.

I refer to the satire of the
“Americat Love it o: Leave
iu!” letter. What an excellent
job. Without doubt, this journal
ist has spent years of his lite
eompiling the most absurd of
the arguments for violenee. 1
congratulate him.and onty wish
that his real name had been
printed so_I could personally
salute him.

To give an example. not only
does this genius recount argus
ments taken from myths in the
Bible. he also has found at a)
Bumert using the Eneyciopedt:
Brrtanica in a novel way.

My favorite paragraph occurs
near the end of the faree. He
uses the oid. well known adiee-
tive addition to prove his point.

‘Y\') ptraccaph he begins by

~ itt the false proposition
tliat fohe an atheist is to be a
haw catte te Then by adjective
additic | he equates communisin
and athotsm. What a cunning
fingu’stl

| hope thts fetter will bring a
het en anderstanding to those
persons who, taking last week's
Ieiter sertonsly. were disturbed
by it.

After all. everyone has the
fight to express himself and it's
uhwvays /geod fo hive a cata
logue of the irrational argu-
ments hat might be advanced.

Aian F. Blakely ‘74
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Yu the Kacuiry and Staff of
Dayidson College. we gracious.
). thank'y w tor the kindness
Hud Thongattainess shown to us
4 it bereavement.

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Deese
Davidson, N. C.
