Page Two 1971 The Bavidsaniat

January 7.

Spencer Responds To Petition
By Freshmen Hall Counselors

By THOM NICOLL Spencer said that unless the he said
Staff Writer plan is disapproved by one of “This dissatisfaction manifests
these groups. it should go be- itself in a lot of ways. One ways
Responding : 7 sane fore the trustees in the spring is to drop out of campus life
fans | selur's petition of De Freshman counselor Ralph al:ogether. which may be what
! wares ‘ Peeples protested the adminis- is happening with the social
, 8 rt ; ration’s response to the mat- system.” Another way is that

S € R Spe stat er

ter. stating, “I don’t think that
umbers approach is ade-

freshmen will not encourage

their high school fmends to ap

Portans for ome "G ge. LNe - acs: quate. If you want to play a ply to Davidson, which hurts

PG San sss Cosas mbers game. vou can go and admissions and causes an econ-

“* ask any hall counselor and he mic problem. Also. if ma)

UD iasis t S gure Co; can rattle off a list of names lead to freshmen initiating

Ined abuut these feeungs us { freshmen who would like to transfer proceedings the end
SSaUls r Because of that cave of the year.”

€ Reels s office However. whether any fresh- Peeples said that the number

ese . men leave or not, the problem of freshmen who have left is

b . still exists. There is dissatisfac- not the point. “The problem

According * te Tregistrat, : on. and the hall counselors are can't be solved by simply deny-

wR. We the most qualified to say so.” ng that exists.”

ces O sp © per By BILL GIDUZ Carolina governor Terry San-
7 dese other four Staff Writer ford. who 1s now president 0!
a ceo! vd k - scademic der: .. Depcident - Duke.

oo Suden: Body President Dan- Only two students from each
ee } Clodfelter has been aw arded State go on to district, and final.
Spencer punted out that dur- one of this vear’s 32 nationwide competition, and this year both

. . G last x Rhodes Scholarships were from Davidson.
. . soesews The lolarship entitles the Clodfelter and Lawrence W1l
. ~ reciplel -o two years study kinson went to Atlanta later
° Oxford University in Eng that same week along with 10
Pt land including tuition, fees. other semi-finalists from the
° . . - Bs nd about $1800 “maintenance” other five states in the south-

7 rf 9P “ae oney for room. board and liv- eastern district. :
7 , eet ing expenses. Only four of these twelve are
soe a annually given the award and
; ; san ans ‘Jimmy Trussell pushed me Clodfelter was one of those

noc prese mo many cam- to it last winter; he’s at Oxford chosen to receive it.

puses. not only ours.” now on a Marshall scholarship, In talking about the state and

Ques © coeducation. but | didn’t really start think- district. interviews, Clodfelter
ail. 1S$Sue petition ing about it seriously until last likened them to the North Caro
> ‘ proced spring,’ said Clodfelter. Clod- lina Fellows interviews, but
ed s bei felter went on to explain that with more experienced inter
dered. The | me De the actual application process viewers. The interviews mixed
B studied b tee didn't begin until he filled in abstract questions with specific
EPC. 1 ltation a brief preliminary application questions requiring pure intel-

Bud; and this October. lectual know ledge.

Gound rmittee and the fin- From there, he and the other “They weren't trying to pur-
Stall e college. e.gh: applicants from North posely trip me up, but a guy
nd » be f.nancially Carolina went through state in- would sav. ‘I see you've studied

anc ademically feasible. the terviews in mid-December. The Sanskrit and you're interested

plan wit have to be approved sate committee consisted of in philosophy. Would you relate

! cE E.P.C.. the fa- fsimer Rhodes scholars and Buddhist philosophy to  such-

ith. and then the president. ‘was Chaired by former North

and-such a philosopher?’ and I
would say. ‘I can’t do that, I'm
sorry. Most of the interview
was Saying ‘I don’t know.’’
When asked if the % hour
interviews were high-pressured.
he replied, “It was the sort of

Aauidsonian Staff

A iate Edit : isi M : bi] ; ee
BBY 4 res betel, Mastalen = pressure iust to justify vourself:
fern RUENEY they weren't trying to see where
cr a Bt ae Assistant Copy Editor: ¥ your. psychological breaking
FODD HOBBIE BILI. ELLETT % int was or anything. I was
HOWARD RAMAGLI ox V , ’ po yng.
vs ees LEX VEAZEY surprised, you get all these
Managing Editors: Ass‘t Sports Editor: . scary notions about what it’s
GRAY WILSON A. W. TURNER supposed to be like, but it was

RICHARD WILSON
News Editor:
DAVID HANIG
Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE
Photography Editor:
BILL BARNES
Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON
ALEC HOON
Copy Editors:
JAMES HANN:

CHARLIE TERRELL
HOWARD BOYD

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
STEVE BALCUM

Circulation Managers:
STEVE SHEPHERD
GREG MITCHELL

Photographers:
TOM CAMPBELL
FRANK ERWIN
JOE RODRIGUEZ

not like that at all.”

The candidates were notified
at the conclusion of the last
of the interviews of their selec-
tion or rejection, a process
which, according to Clodfelter,
caused for more than a little
anxiety.

Clodfelter was one of the four
who survived the screening pro-
cess, however, and he expressed
these thoughts on his selection.
“This gives me a chance to sit
back and do some serious aca-
demic work which I haven't
. done in a long time, some seri-

Published weekly at Davidson. N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson ous concentrated work, and
College during the school vear. Second class postage paid at David- there won't be any involvements

Contributors this week: Tom Bruce. Jace Gaffney, Bill Giduz.
Bob Howell, Thom Nicoll. Mike Tanner, M. Finley Taylor.

son, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, on off campus activities to dis-
Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00. tract me. It’s a good break in
besitin ie i ee the flow of things.”

Cec.) Rhodes. the
scholarship
that it be given

originator
designated
to scholars with
truthfulness. cour-
kindlhi-
ness. sympathy for and pro-
exhibition
of moral force of character and
sports.

By his selection, Clodfelter be
came the ith Davidson Sstu-
honor
since it was originated around

qualities of

age. devotion to. duty,
rection of the weak.

success in

dent to receive the high

(Staff Photo by Bill Barnes)
BOUND FOR OXFORD
Clodfelter becomes Davidson's seventeenth Rhodes Scholar.

~. Clodfe lter Wins A Rhodes

the beginning of the century.
This ranks Davidson in the top
15 American colleges and uni-
\ersities in this respect.
Davidson's President Samuel
R. Spencer, Jr. noted Clodfelt-
er’s accomplishment by saying,
“Danny's achievement is a great
honor to him and Davidson. I
am keenly pleased about this
and I know that all of us share
a genuine pride and satisfac-
tion in his) selection.

. . Candidates

(Continued From Page 1)

He suggested creative writing,
a humor column. and improved

coverage of Community news
and the national perspective.

Gray's second aim is to im-
prove the quality of news ga-
thering of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Rich Wilson has been Assist-
an: Managing Editor, and is
now Managing Editor of THE
DAVIDSONIAN. He edited last
summer's edition of the pa
per. He writes professionally for
The Charlotte News and re-
ceived the D. Grier Martin
Award for best freshman re-
porter.

As to his platform, Rich said,
“It's basically a campaign
against mis-information and it
is this misinformation that
breeds the mistrust which mani
fests itself in the lack of under
standing between the various
constituencies of the college.”

To aid in the accurate re-
porting of the mews, Rich hopes
to organize a series of investi-
gative teams composed of stu-
dents interested in particu-
lar topics. Other improvements
he would like to make include
increased size and quality of
ihe sports pages, information on
how other colleges are handling
major campus issues, and the
addition of a guest column as
well as columns on the draft,
cultural activities at nearby col-
leges, and satirical columns.

Rich added, “I feel that we
can now report enough material
so that, with additional adver-
tising, we could expand to 10
or 12 pages weekly.”

Contending in the upcoming
elections for the office of Pres
ident of the Social Council are
junior Jim Campbell and sopho

more Miles Ward.

Campbell. who ts currently in
his second year as Fraternity
Social Chairman at the Pika
House, has served on the social
council since his freshman year.
He has also worked closely in
the past with the National En-
tertainment Conference (NEC),
an organization set up to aid
student union staffs in planning
and coordinating their activi-
ties.

Campbell feels that the Social
Council will be forced to work
much more closely with all as-
pects of the Union Social Func-
tion (the coffee house commit-
tee, the film committee, the
Hungary committee, the speak-
er committee) as well as with
the eating clubs in attempt to
work around the problem of
union dislocation and reach the
student body.

“What we want, is a united
program to present to the stu-
dent body, on a regular basis,
a series of activities and most
important, to make sure that
students not only know what's
happening, but also when and
where,’ he said.

Miles Ward, who'has served
for one year on the senate, also
feels that the destruction of
the present union facilities could
seriously handicaf the Social
Council next year if steps are
not taken.

“We've got to plan our ac-
tivities so that they fall evenly
throughout the year and also to
try to concentrate them more
on the weekends, for if we can
do this, I feel that more and
more people will begin to stay
on campus and support what
we're doing,” Ward said
