Che Bauvidsonian

E IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAP-
—Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

“TH
THE
PENING.”

PAGE FOUR APRIL 28, 1972

Convocation Support

This morning at 11 a.m. in Love Auditorium the aca-
demic community of Davidson will assemble to honor stu-
dents and faculty who have distinguished themselves in
service to the college as well as to honor three men who
have given much of their time, money and energy in service
to Davidson and our society.

To most students convocat'ons appear to be a rather
stodgy affair where faculty flock in flowing robes, and
where some “great man” delivers a dry and boring speech

' about the challenge which institutions of higher learning
must face in the years ahead.

The result of this closed-minded stereotype of con-
vocations is usually a noticable lack cf students in atten-
dance. We feel this to be a tragic situation.

It was students who first encouraged the idea of a
Spring Convocation because they desired an opportunity
for the academic community to unite and truly act like
a community. The administration has no great love for
convocations as such extravaganzas usually cost quite a bit
of money.

If students say they want to be a part of the academic
community, then they have a responsibility and a moral
obligation to support the functions of the community.

Today the community honors three men who have
distinguished themselves in a number of ways. Walter
Lingle has devoted years of service to the college as chair-
man of the Board of Trustees. president of the Alumni
Association and current chairman of the ‘Trustee Govern.
ance Committee. Though Lingle never lived in Davidson
himself, except as a student, every major project of both
town and college continues to have his financial and moral
support.

Senator Sam Ervin, a former Davidson trustee, has
proven himself a stalwart protector of individual consti-
tutional rights on the Senate judiciary committee. And
Joseph McConnell, an alumnus of Davidson, has served
as president of three major U. S. corporations and is pre-
sently the chairman of the Communication Satellite Corp-
oration.

We feel that these men are wise choices for Davidson
honorary doctor of laws degrees, and their presence on the
Davidson campus this weekend is an honor for the college.

We hope that students will not look upon today as a
holiday from classes so that they can begin the weekend
early, but instead we hope they will fulfill their obligation
as a member of the Davidson community to attend con-
vocation.

A Meaningful Class Gift

We would like to urge all seniors to contribute to their
class project, the student loan fund, as their final legacy
to Davidson College.

The student loan fund, conceived by a committee of
20 seniors appointed by class president Bill Lear, represents
a worthwhile effort on the part of the seniors to leave a
useful gift to the college.

In the past, graduating classes have bequeathed such
appreciated, but virtually useless gifts as benches, flag-
pole plaques and signs.

This year’s gift is a timely and welcome break from
such traditions.

An ambitious goal of $10,000 has been set for the fund,
to be collected in units of $10 per year for five years by
200 members of the Senior Class.

Eventually, when the $10,000 has been raised, $500
loans will be available at an interest rate of only three per-
cent a year.

The obvious problem facing all involved is the actual
collection of the money over the five year period. The
temptation will be present to give for one or two years
and then to consciously forget, hoping that someone else
will pick up the slack. But since pledges of money are
legally binding, we hope all Seniors will see this project
through.

There is always a need for financial help for stu-
dents without the resources to pay for college or other
expenses in one lump sum. Such a loan system at such a
cheap interest rate can play a small but important part.
Future classes may wish to adopt this as a senior gift as
well, in order that the amount of funds may be increased.
_ If the senior gift was something as useless as a bench,
it might be understandable why some seniors would choose
not to donate.

However, this year’s gift represents something far
more meaningful, and hence every senior should feel
some obligation to contribute considering the need.

GRAY WILSON

Women Will Bring ©

Traumatic Changes

Now that coeducation will soon
be more than a token reality at
Davidson, it is time to take stock
of the effects of reality on the
male student body for mext year.

First, 24-hour open dorms are
still taboo on the faculty books,
so no coeds may reside in the
upper floors of Little Dorm af-
ter 2 p.m. every evening. They
will have to find more legiti-
mate lodging for the night, say,
Duke Dorm.

Secondly, the facilities in Lit.
tle are too adequate for the pros-
pective coeds. Several install-
ments will lie fallow in the rest
rooms due to the hasty housing
arrangements. This is wasteful.
This is why the room fees are
going up next year.

Thirdly, the additional num-
ber of coeds coming to the cam-
pus next year has forced the
Housing Office to raise its quota
of off-campus permits above the
standard ceiling of four people.
Consequently, people like myself

LETTER

are being driven out of the dor-
mitories into the hinterland of
Davidson with no chance for a
nice comfortable room in the
demi-paradise of first floor Belk.

Speaking of dorms, Duke is no
longer the prima donna it once
was. It seems that third floor
Little has suddenly taken on a
new priority in the room draw-
ings. Maybe this upswing is duc
to the air-conditioning or the
early curfew hours on the hall.
but it is rumored that room ser-
vice is a major factor in the
rise in popularity.

The classroom situation will
be slightly altered too. The add-
ed perspective of a woman in a
Humes discussion will be just as
titillating as those good ole days
in high school. Remember how
it was about four years ago
back in biology class with fe-
male :epresentation in the same
room?

Finally, with coeducation a
thing of the past, SGA candi.

Building Policy Hit

To The Editor:

In my brief acquaintance with
American architecture I have
come to the decision that the
architectural policy of David-
son College is wrong.

In the history of the United
States, architects have constant-
ly been thwarted in their am-
bitions by a lack of public inter-
est. In the early 1900's, archi-
tect Louis Sullivan was reduced
to designing banks, and in the
1910’s Frank Lloyd Wright could
find employment only as a de-
signer for suburban housing,
while lesser architects were de-
signing larger works in older
eclectic styles.

It is a shame that such tal-
ents weren’t fully utilized, be-
ing limited only by their pa-
trons’ interests.

Today, it seems that this -col-
lege is committing the same er-
rors continually committed in
the history of building in the

United States. If the college
claims to be a progressive cul-
tural element, it must offer the
designing of a building in open
competition so that innovative
architects can have a chance to
further their art in America.

Although an excellent oppor-
tunity for change was missed in
the designing of the E. H. Little
Library, I would like to urge the
college to become progressive
in its future building projects
and to abandon its encourage-
ment of antiquated forms.

I recognize the argument for
continuity of forms on campus,
but it seems that this should be
overriden by the college's role
playing as cultural stimulus in
the community.

I argue that a variety of
forms, too, can be beautiful and
moreover as functional as Frank
L. Wright himself advised.

Andy Neisler ‘74
Davidson College

il ALUMNIS
| WEEKEND |

dates will no longer have an is-
sue that everyone can agree up-
on. That first paragraph of bull
you find on every platform state-
ment that goes under your door
will have to be replaced by
some other subject that every.
one favors such as Renall drug
dispensers in the lobbies, or per-
fect attendance awards for
classes.

What did Davidson do to de-
serve all this? It got weird. It
all began when the light bulb of
the future began to flicker A.C.-
D.C. and students were having
dark visions of those English
prep schools where boys got
lonely.

The situation became desper-
ate when the cheers im Johnston
Gym went from “Go Wildcats”
to ‘Give me a M-E-O-N, What-
uvyougot? ME-ON, Whatdoyou-
want? ME-ON,” etc.

The EPC (Enticing Proposi-
tions Committee) finally made
an offer that the coed faculty
could not resist, and é looks
like the hormonal imbalance
will soon be 1.estored at David-
son.

One other group. deserves
praise for its share in bringing
coeducation on the campus. The
Grey House crew has done more
than its share in all respects.

They have provided much of
the necessary lip service for ev-
ery worthwhile cause, such as
the need for extna lighting and
security on campus (Russ Mer-
ritt and the Booger Man saw it
all that rape-infested night be-
hind the Cunningham Fine Arts
Building).

In closing, just in case any-
body is wondering about all the
juicy dating possibilities that
will be available, the only dif-
ference will be that it will take
a short walk instead of a short
phone call to Queens or Salem
to get shot down.

So all you lady killers and
sex-starved academic egg plants
get ready because starting mext
year, what’s left of the male
student body will return drool-
ing with healthy ideas, unre-
touched, savage, and UNCHAIN-
ED, in technicolor.

