The Bavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS

THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT 1S HAP-
PENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR FEBRUARY 4, 1972

Is YMCA Needed?

Do we need a YMCA on this campus? Before we start
discussing the role of the chaplain or where the YMCA
should be located, the basic issue of the YMCA’s existence

must be examined.

Since the YMCA is organized, financed and admini-
stered by students, we first must be certain there is enough
student interest on campus to maintain the organization.
Not only must there be interested people in the cabinet,
but there must be enough students in the entire student
body interested in participating in YMCA programs.

Estimated figures of the number of people presently
participating in the YMCA is disappointing, and the finan-
cial figures of student support are even more discouraging,
f not disgraceful. When we look at the expensive stereos
in the dorms and the plush cars in the parking lot, it is
a sobering thought that these same people refuse to donate
$5 to finance the tutoring of underpriviledged children,
nor are they willing to give their time in helping local scout
troops. ,

Therefore, we come to the difficult point where we
must evaluate student interest along side the objectives of
the YMCA. Should this organization continue to direct pro-
grams toward the surrounding community if students are
not willing to participate? If the YMCA is directed more
toward student services, would there still be enough stu-
dent interest to continue its functioning?

To answer these questions will ultimately be to decide
the future of the YMCA. We therefore call upon the YMCA
-abinet to conduct an in depth study of its organization to
determine what, if anything, can be done to rejuvinate in-
terest in the YMCA. We still believe there is a place
for the YMCA on campus as well as in community activities.

Comprehensive Fee '

We have nothing but praise for the administration’s
handling of the comprehensive fee this week. The presi-
dent and vice presidents clearly showed that they do care
and are ready to respond to student questions.

That the administration placed student rights above
financial considerations is also encouraging for the future.
In the next few weeks the business office will begin to put
together next year’s budget. We only hope they will con-
tinue to place student needs above financial considerations
on their list of priorities.

Exchange Program

The Eight College Exchange Program offers Davidson
students just the chance that many students claim they so
vehemently want, to escape the agonies of life here. Yet
the fact remains that as of now only two students have
applied for this program for next year.

Extensive efforts have been made by Ostwalt and others
to make the Exchange program as innovative and easy to
qualify as possible.

Almost all applicants for the program are accepted with
10 minimum grade-point average required.

Grades are readily transferable from participating col-
eges. Passfail options are accepted. Suitable arrangements
transferrable from participating colleges. Pass-fail options
can be worked out for those enrolled in ROTC or the Hu-
nanities program to participate.

Beyond all this, the exchange has been enthusiastically
endorsed by returning students as a worthwhile and excit-
ing program.

Yet, few Davidson students have shown any interest.
We cannot understand this incongruency in the attitudes
of students here. Many men here solemnly vowed that they
are dying to go to school with girls. But when the oppor-
tunity is presented, there seems to be few takers.

There is now a chance that some of the women’s

schools will drop the program unless more men enroll at

—— colleges for the number of girls who can come to Dav-
idson.

The opportunity is available. All it takes i
to take advantage of it. akes is for students

HOWARD RAMAGLI

“The Ballad of Sam The Cat’

Sitting in a large comfortable
chair, Sam greeted me in typi-
cal cat fashion — a meow, a
quick glance — and then scam-
pered out the window onto the
roof. I find it extremely hard
to convince myself that Sam is
unique among cats at Davidson.

Sam, a cat for only a short
time, finds life at Davidson
providing adequately for the
primary activities of a cat, eat-
ing and sleeping. Beyond that,
Sam displays a great indiffer-
ence to the goings-on in the
house. No activity or idea has
been spared in attempting to
coerce Sam into activity. Com-
placently, Sam gazes up at our
attempts with half opened eyes,
yawns, and returns to the slum-
ber which we have disturbed.

Even in this relatively pas-
sive state, Sam rules our apart-
ment: The basic device Sam
uses to insure our cooperation
is getting under foot as we at-
tempt to navigate from one
room to the next. If this does
not work, Sam procedes to at-
tack our feet from hiding places
so as to keep us off-balance and
remind us in whose realm we
are,

Sam is mot an idle cat. With
much inventiveness and a firm
belief in what the life of a cat
in Davidson should be, Sam
goes to great lengths to provide
diversions from the dull life in
our apartment.

One of Sam’s favorite acti-
vities is journeys on the out-
side. Most of the time these
travels are of short duration
and do not cover much ground.
The most typical of these jour-
neys is an almost daily jour-
ney to Chambers. I was not
aware Sam made such journeys
until a friend informed me that
he had discovered Sam explor-
ing this land of Chambers.

He also said that he did not
understand what a cat would
be doing in such an_ exotic
land. I must confess that I
have no idea why Sam makes
this journey to Chambers or
even what is the purpose of
the journey. However, all out-
ward signs say that Sam has
a good time on the journey,
which is all one can expect
from a young cat.

Lately Sam has taken to play-
ing with animals. Two of Sam’s
favorites are two flying squir-
rels, who live in the general
vicinity. The reason Sam likes
playing with them is that even
though Sam is bigger than they
are, these two squirrels have
the -capacity for playing right
back.

Squirrels as you know are
agile and very quick and with
this prowess they keep Sam off-
balance. Sam enjoys this chal-
lenge, but at times becomes
over-zealous in playing. Squir-
rels sometimes lose patience
with this playing and resort to
the tactics of biting. It has
becomes necessary to keep
these creatures from becoming
too excited with Sam's impul-
Siveness.

Perhaps the most tragic of
Sam’s endeavors concerns a
helpless bird which Sam lured
into the apartment. Having all
the good intentions of a play-
ful cat, Sam had a great time
with the unsuspecting bird.

Sam, chased this poor bird
all over the apartment, scaring

her half-to-death. Sam_ toyed
with her and_ half-killed this
poor creature. Then Sam left
her alone, perhaps to give her
a chance to recover before be-
ginning the fun and games all
over again.

I somehow feel part of the
guilt for the playful mauling
of this bird. Perhaps if I could
have conveyed to Sam the ca-
pacity to see the good in the
existence of creatures other
than cats in Davidson. This
might not have occurred. But
I somehow think that Sam will
never understand, and will
play with another bird and per-
haps kill her.

ing new developments in acti-
vities, Sam has done nothing.
It is as if Sam built us up only
to let us down easy again after
two weeks away from David-
son,

I really do not understand
Sam. I had hopes of an exciting
new life at! Davidson with Sam.
I had hoped Sam would be
a compassionate, understanding
cat. Sam is when Sam feels like
it (which is not very often).

The best I can say for Sam
is that Sam is a typical cat
with all the indifference and in-
dependence cats show toward
people.

In fact I am sure Sam will be
unmoved by this perhaps last

attempt to coerce some acti-
vity, which is as it should be,
ior Sam is the perfect example
for cats in Davidson.

Lately Sam has become very
inactive (for a cat.) After all
the excitement before Christ-
mas and the promise of excit-

RRR. SENS IIS RF © IE Se Se Vig LL RE aly

outside

perspective

8 eRe a aha ARN A KEANE EY SRR SRE ere FRE Re 1 Lie alti

Law Sought to End Sex Bias in Admissions

A task force in the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare has urged the department to seek legislation
to prohibit sex discrimination in college admissions and to
insure that more women enter graduate school. _

The report asking for an end to sex discrimination was
submitted by Xandra Kayden, former director of HEW's
women’s action program. It was endorsed by HEW Sec-
retary Elliot L. Richardson.

Emory Approves Shorter College Career

The faculty of Emory University has recently approv-
ed a new program which will permit Emory students to
complete their bachelor’s degree in less than four aca-
demic years.

The program combines the advantages of advanced
placement, petitioned examinations, and course over-loads
to allow for a student to save a full year.

Authorities Arrest Seventeen Students

The new year came in with a bust for seventeen Uni-
versity of the South students in Sewanee, Tennessee. State,
county and University officials, armed with a warrent to
search two dormitory rooms, arrested three students for
possession of marijuana and for possible other drug viola-
ions.

Fourteen other students were arrested soon afterwards
during a raid on a nearby farmhouse. They also were jail-
ed for marijuana possession. Nine of the students were
bailed out by Dean of Men John Webb on behalf of the
University.

Student Fees to be Freed from Controls

According to “The Chronicle of Higher Education,”
federal authorities have decided to exempt student charges
from price controls at all public and nonprofit private col-
leges and universities. These charges include tuition, fees,
and room and board rates. Such a policy had been an-
nounced earlier only in the case of public institutions.
SGA Creates Abortion Loan Fund

The SGA of the University of North Carolina at Char-
lotte recently established a committee to work out the de-
tails of a Student Abortion Loan Fund. Allocating $2100
for the committee, the SGA stated that “any” student duly
enrolled at UNCC is eligible to apply for and receive a loan
provided he or she is 18 years of age or older.”

Clemson President Criticizes School Paper

The Clemson University administration has asked “The
Tiger” to print a retraction of a statement in an earlier
edition of the paper concerning Governor West and the
establishment of a second medical school for South Caro-
lina. The retraction would be one line on page one with a
letter from Clemson’s President on the regular letters page
citing the “errors” in the West article. The retraction
would help protect the University, the legal publisher of
“The Tiger,” in possible court action for libel.

_ However, “The Tiger” has declined to print the retrac-
tion. Behind the scenes. Clemson’s President has author-
ized the printer of “The Tiger” to censor “anything you (the
printer) would consider unfit for publication.” Yet, private-
ly and even publically, the President has stated that “we
won't censor ‘The Tiger,’ but we will stop publication.”
Court cases specifically deny the University the right to
pre-publication censorship of college newspapers.

