The Davidsontan

“THERE 1S ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAP-
PENING.” —Marshalt McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR JANUARY 7. 1972

An Endorsement

(\-: -f tte mest vespectea ‘radinoas 21 THE 2AVi-
SONTAN wrn.t “le 7eucs tas deen As aon-darvisan.
apoluie. aitlima Ranees lumng student e1ecTons ©
x: ssa. avery fast eqiforsmip jas idimic-
ably remenet cot if we muck ane siime 0f ‘campus Do1-
tical Campaigns 2c¢ La: Temamtec Beer Mo ote Dersicna.-
ty questions invo.7ed 18 Nucec: e.ee Tens.

At this time and with wfus Hiflcma.. towever We cet.
It necessary to break with ecitomig. Tedcier ine « spets
out concerning the upcoming ¢€.¢cnons oy sfdevsine
Ralph Peeples for president of the Scuden: 12:%
Association. _

To begin with. we emphasize two poinis fis. -
not our intention to set journalistic preceden: ‘or
newspaper. Each editorship must make its own response
to the unique situation and news events It encounvers
without tradition dictating that response Second. the
opinions we voice are solely those of the editorship. and
should not be assumed to reflect the views of the rest
of the staff or of future newspaper editors.

Student government at Davidson has come a iong
wav in a few years. Beginning with Tom Earnhardt in
1967 - 38 and moving on through Joe Murphy. Peter Hob-
bie. Ran Coble and now Danny Clodfelter. this campus’s
student presidents have guided. prodded. dragged. and
ed student government into a position of relative power.
respect and effectiveness.

Therefore. it would be nothing less than tragic for
sur student government to slide backwards or to stand
ctu} un the moving stream of college life due to the elec-
tion of the wrong man as president. For the SGA Presi-
dent does after all. dominate and almost dictate the di-
rertions that student government takes and the effective-
ness ‘sith which it moves. and the wrong man in the
whee. could cause the whole SGA boat to capsize

Because of al] these factors. we feel it imperative
‘net we endorse Peeples as the best candidate for SGA
President

Of tne two candidates. only Peeples faces the future.
Ir, mas work as @ class senator. in his tireless efforts with
tne Peace Coalition. in his responsible service with the
YMCA. end in his dedication as a freshman hall counselor
Peopies has proven his administrative abilities. his sen-
sjuivite. his concern for tne problems of the Davidson stu-
dent and ris ability es a ieader. and nowhere can he be
found vacking

We strongiv fee: that Davidson's student government
nas the potential to grow into a powerful and effective
voice for student concerns and rights. and only with the
eection of Ralph Peeples can the SGA move in this di-

The Union Jack

Before we recommence beating what the administra-
tion and trustees seem to regard as a very dead horse, we
would like to express sincere appreciation to the union
officials who have developed an excellent report on the
future of the union.

Their work has been painstakingly thorough and re-
presented one of the finest reports submitted to Davidson.

Davidson is going to miss its union building next fall.
perhaps more than any building except the library or
Chambers Building.

The plans call for the use of the Guest House as the
interim, and we certainly hope that it is just an interim
period, union facility.

That this raises problems is immediately apparent. Of-
fices for the college’s publications will be located in two
houses in Jackson Court (we may have to evict someone
there), as will those for student government and the radio
station

Despite several large rooms, the Guest House will
have very limited facilities for any gathering of over 60
or 70 people. The upstairs is dedicated to office space for
the continuing union community.

This is not to mention the disappointed guests who
may find themselves in a lottery for the one guest bed-
room in the Carolina Inn.

The dispersal of the union’s activities across the cam-
pus will pose difficulties in organizing a social life on cam-
pus. The convocations and commencement. aside from
basketball games, will be the only occasions in an in-
coming freshman’s year here that he may see more than
60 fellow students congregated in the name of the Cham-
bers Maids.

It’s hard to be one hig family without a house.

eee

CECIL BURNEY

SGA Candidates Receive
Comparison Of Differences

Next: weex a new president
‘ne Davidson student body
ail be chosen The President
wf tne studern. bods serves as
tine Charrmarn of ‘the Senate.
iS. me Student Life Com-
mittee und s frequently called
gee ve 2s Sam Spencer
voeneter ce a urcs co show ev-
rv hed “ra te .s a frend of
(ets

pdec’ (ur student beds
rom: .2ars at Das-
a

Drs GRITS

Do ge.f sis 4 candidate
Aa’ BSI Tim cast) years
ect.um Zan presiden: and
.:ne.caie was assumed a df-
erent wl. anc poucy for ine
T3A re nas Meer ititie:zeé cr
sriised fir tagt sand
Tris weer students have
faued i.r +  ° 1. Eacn is per-
$uas..¢ and art.iuiate Each nas
been ite ised in Suden: govern-

Men. ilisies « great deal
Hain net ar impressive lis: of
credentiais. Eacn ‘aill choose a
po.cw and a direction for ‘he
SGA for the coming vear.

Bil Aiexarder and = Ralpf.
Peeples represen? very differ-
ent points of view. I hope that
sith my special vantage point.
knowing both within the realm
of studen: governmental activi-
nes for some time. I can pro-
vide al! Students with a deeper
unders:anding of :hese differen-

és.

Bil: Alexander comes from a
traditional family background
and a very iradit.onal area. He
acd hs famil, nave great pride
in their past. and Bill. in many
settung: has consisvently chosen
.ery tradi:.ona! approaches to
answering current problems.

By doing this. he has followed

status quo line of thinking
shich is somewhat opposed to
change. Practically every time
students have suggested changes
ahich would move Davidson
into the future. Bill has opposed
such changes.

The Alexander year as vice-
president was characterized
mainly by inaction. Much of
the positive work begun in the
Residence Hall Association be-
fore Bil! came to office was cast
aside and ignored. largely be-
cause the bulk of Bill’s time
‘vas not spent in improving the
quality of life for all students
living cn campus, but was rath-
er Spent in fighting for an off-
campus house for the remain-
ing. selective SPE national fra-
ternity members.

Also. probably because he
knew an election was coming
up, Bill chose to abstain on
many decisions in the student
senate, because he knew that
his traditional views do not sit
well with many students.

The work of Ralph Peeples
has also been strongly  influ-
enced by his personal character.
But it is, I think, a very dif-
ferent character than that of
Bill Alexander.

Ralph grew up in a very trad-
itional area in Charleston, S. C.,
but somehow he has developed

to-day Davidson, he shows not
only an empathy for others but
also an encouraging positive
orientaticn for what is to come,

an unusual depth of perception
about the world around him. He
sees positive and joyful aspects
of life, but he sees the sorrows
and pains of the world around

When Davidson students dc-
him, too.

cide to cast their vote in this
election, they will have a choice
between two styles of policy and
direction. On the one hand, Bill
Alexander can be elected, and
ihe official spokesman for stu
dents will be a spokesman for
many of the traditions upon
which Davidson was founded.

In the development of his
character, he somehow began
-o look at the human situations
in which he was involved with
a determination to do what he
could to make life a little bet-
ter and to change those things
which are necessary to change
to bring about such improve-

ment. On the other. Ralph Peeples

can be elected. and Davidson
students will have an even-keel.-
ed and directed voice for the
future which w.ll speak for dif-
fercmt wavs of doing things and
a chanee for Davidson to move
out of its past. which has fre-
quently been stagnant.

In work with the Student Gov-.
ernment. Ralph has been an
initiator of new programs and
activities. He has a- great deal
of energy.

He has been deeply concern-
ed about always taking a stand
on issues before him and has
frequently asked incisive ques-
tims that have needed ty be
asked in important matters.

This election is an important
one in the fife of the Student
Gavernment Association and the
histury of the College, and it
is a ‘ime in which each person
can take a Jook at himself and
decide where he wants his
seht. | vu go.

Ralph's life is marked by his
orientation toward the future,
ard :n the present life of day-

TODD HOBBIE

Affluence Di vides
Undergraduates

Being still possessed by a
feelng of Christmas and New
Year's cheer. I begin this ar-

desire and ability to learn. This
type of student should be placed
in a school such as Davidson at
ticle with a pat on Davidson's a cost no higher than any pub-
back. I think that Davidson lic institution. Such a student
College is one of the better pri- has demonstrated his desire and
vate schools around. aptitude and should not be in-
Having said this. it is time hibited for monetary reasons.
to come to the point of this Davidson boasts that this is its
column. I have begun to ques- present policy but at best this
tion seriously if there should be would be dubious.
such a thing as a private insti- The ideal situation would be
tution of learning. tor all schools to be the prop-
| am very much opposed to erty of the public. Any person
private secondary schools in desiring education would be
the United States. | am opposed placed in a school suited for
to them ‘for several reasons. his intellectual growth. The best
One reason. is that private Students would be assigned to
schools tend to separate people the best schools strictly on this
according to economic class. basis. and all levels of public
Another reason would be that educaticn should cost the same
higher quality education is giv- “regardless of the level of qual-
en to the affluent strictly on ity,
the basis of ability to pay. Evidently this is incredibly
In trying to be honest I find idealistic. The day that David-
little more justification for pri- son will become a public in-
vate schools on the undergrad Stitution is a long way off. And
uate level than I do on the until such a day comes it would
secondary school level. The af- seem foolish for anyone to go
fluent continue to send their to any but the best schools that
kind to the higher quality pri- they can afford.
vate schools while the less af- The evolution of our society
fluent either don't go to school away from private schools is an
or go to less expensive state improvement we should strive
institutions. . for.
Naturally, there are some pri--
vate schools that are inferior |
to many public schools on the :
undergraduate level. But there THE DAVIDSONIAN so-
are many schools like Davidson — licits letters to the editor
where students obtain prefer- on any subject. Letters
ential treatment and higher received -before Tuesday
quality instruction basically be- night will ordinarily be
cause of the ability to pay for Printed that week.
it. Anonymous letters can-
There is a place for schools not be accepted for publl-
of the Davidson type for those cation. —
students who show an unusual

eer
axe A

LETTERS

Rayo)

Be I
