orm «< 4A o =
Ghe Mavidsonian
“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG as

THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAP-
PENING.” —Marshell McLuhen

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

tlh

PAGE FOUR MARCH 31, 1972

Student Counseling

The administration is finally making genuine pro-
gress toward providing adequate counseling services for
students. The plan to finance two half time clinical psy-
chologists for next year is certainly an improvement over
the present situation.

We hope, however, that this is the first step in a con-
tinuing process. to upgrade available counseling at David-
son. The atmosphere at this college seems to suppress
genuine expression of emotion and this is unhealthy.

The training for freshman Hall Counselors be-
come more rigorous in the last year under Dean of Stu-
dents Will Terry’s direction and we hope the administra-
tion will continue this trend. Hall Counselors can play an
invaluable role in aiding the adjustment of freshmen to
Davidson.

While improvements have been made in these areas,
other phases of counseling are ignored or allowed to func-
tion without adequate direction. The administration con-
tinues to allow faculty members to advise freshmen with-
out any program of training or orientation to p
faculty for this vital role. Freshmen advisors sh be
carefully selected for personal enthusiasm and genuine
desire to help. They should be schooled in counseling tech-
niques and prepared to deal with psychological concerns.
No faculty member should be a freshman advisor unless
he is both willing and capable to handle personal problems.

The dilemma of the sophomore presents another neg-
lected counseling problem. The sophomore has probably
adjusted to his college environment, but he still faces
three long years at Davidson, uncertain about his major
and his college future. The sophomore is in a sort of coun-
seling limbo, neglected by his freshman advisor but not
ready to choose a major advisor. A positive effort to help
the sophomore find a direction in his college career would
be a vital asset to the college counseling program.

But the most important support to any college coun-
seling program is the students themselves. If each student
could discard his self-centered intellectual attitude and
take an interest in the feelings of others, emotional prob-
lems here would be reduced. The most important part of
counseling is listening and the most effective listen¢r is
often the student who shows concern for the problems ¢f his
peers. Every student has a role in making Davidson a less
lonely place.

While we have made progress in some areas of coun-
seling, more needs to be accomplished. And all members
of tne college have a responsibility to make Davidson more
livable.

Grievance Committee

The Peeples SGA administration gathered momen-
tum this week with the establishment of the Grievance
Committee.

As the bureaucracy on the first floor Chambers ex-
pands with ever increasing vigor, it is not uncommon for
students with a problem to be shifted from one adminis-
trative office to another.

Recognizing these problems, the senate has set up a
committee of six students to cut through administrative
red tape and strengthen communications between the
administration and the rest of the college.

A significant attribute of the Grievance Committee
is that it gives personalized service to each person with
a problem. Each case will be handled on an individual
basis and the case will be kept confidential upon request.
The administration has failed to give students the personal
attention they require; consequently, the Senate has moved
to fill the gap.

Another significant attribute is that the Grievance
Committee will serve the entire campus community. Not
only will students benefit from the service, but faculty.
staff. townspeople and even other administrators may re-
quest nelp from the committee.

Many such attempts to provide services for students
have failed in the past because of student apathy. We
hope that this committee will not fade away because of lack
of interest.

But in order for it to survive, the Grievance com-
mittee must also have the cooperation of the administration.
Since the students are doing what the administration
should be doing, we hope they will at least take time out
to answer the queries of these students.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has expressed
his full support for this program, and we hope his Vice
Presidents and their subordinates will do the same.

This is just the first phase of Peeple’s overall plan to im-
prove student services on campus. He has made a good
start- with the Grievance Committee, and we hope he will
continue his efforts in this direction.

GUEST COLUMN

Counselors Protest Filth,
Call For Custodial Reforms

By DICK CLAY and
JOEL BRADLEY

The following is meant to con-
vey a sense of dissatisfaction
with the present setup of the
janitorial s y stem. Hopefully,
trom what we say, the Director
of Personnel and Administrative
Services, Mr. Robert J. Stephen-
son, will be able to draw some
conclusions and take some ac-
tions which will be conducive to
improved living @onditions in
the dormitories. These com-
ments are, of course, limited to
Cannon I since this is our area
of “expertise.” Any action re-
sulting from these comments
will increase our awareness of
the power of the student press.

Throughout the first term and
half of the second, the bath-
room on Cannon I was cleaned
on the average of once a week.
As can be well imagined, the
bathroom became rather un-
pleasant towards the end of the
week. Outside of this ritual
cleaning, the only effort the jan-
itor made was to empty the
trash barrel daily.

We first complained at a Hall
Counselor’s meeting early in the
first term to Mrs. Nicholls, Di-
rector of Student Housing, who
directed us to Mr. Meetze, Di-
rector of the Physical Plant,
(bathrooms being outside of her
sphere of influence), who in
turn directed us to Mr. Gant,
Superintendent of Custodians.

Mr. Gant promised to speak
to Sgt. Penley, Assistant Direc-
tor of Custodians, who in turn
spoke to us at 7 a.m. the fol-
lowing morning.

Observation No. 1: Having to
ge through four people, all of
whom are salaried, and all of
whom are directly or indirectly
concerned with dormitory main-
enance, makes for three too
many overseers.

Sgt. Penley has a flair for dra-
matic entrances. Both of us were
asleep when he flipped on the
light, lit a cigarette, sat down
on our chair without invitation
and read our Charlotte Observer
as he talked.

He asked us what our partic-
ular jaintor had not been doing
and consequently promised to
have the bathroom cleaned on a
regular basis. Before leaving he
said, and I quote, ‘‘Let’s keep
this in the family”; i.e. tell him
of custodial problenis, rather
than Mr. Gant. We assume this
was to protect himself and his
job. Consequently, we informed
him the matter would stay ‘in
the family” as lomg as our jani-
tor performed his job adequate-
ly—which means disinfecting the
bathroom daily along with emp-
tying trash cans and sweeping
rooms. Services improved for
one or two weeks (the bathroom
disinfected once a week and
Swept every day with a broom).

Observation No. 2: Sgt. Pen-
ley believes in the virtues of
familial living.

Upon commencement of the
second term, conditions return-
ed to their characteristic low,
and we again contacted Mr.
Gant, who again contacted Sgt.
Penley, who again visited as
promptly at 7:30 in our room

and asked that the matter be
“kept in the family.” Perform-
ance rose and then again fell in
the same manner as it did after
his first visit.

When the service declined this
time, we realized the utter use-
lessness of working through the
Physical Plant office, and there-
fore called the Charlotte Health
Department and asked for a
sanitation rating on the Cannon
I bathroom. They promptly
obliged; however, before the in-
spection they went to Mr.
Meetze’s office for apparently
they must be accompanied by
a college official before they in-
spect. We do not know how
much time lapsed between the
time they entered the Physical
Plant Office and the time of in
spection, but miraculously, the
Cannon I bathroom was mag-
nificiently disinfected minutes
before the inspection.

Observation No. 3: The threat
of a poor Public Health Office
Sanitation rating on a dormi-
tory bathroom must have sig-
nificant repercussions in the
Physical Plant Office.

From this account it is easy to
see that Davidson is operating
something approaching a pater-
nalistic welfare system in re-
gard to its custodians. The only
times each day we have seen
our janitor are in the early
morning when he noisily bangs
our trash cans around = and
throws our newspaper on top of
Mr. Clay while he’s still in bed,
and the early afternoon when
he is watching soap operas in
the Cannon Lounge. We do not
think of ourselves as bigots, and
we have been overly patient with
the bureaucratic ins and outs of
the Physical Plant Office, but
we do not pay over $3,100 a
year to acquire athletes foot in
the shower stall.

In our opinion, there are two
solutions to this custodial lax-
ity.

1) Fire all dormitory janitors
after this year and provide a
substantial number of work-
study jobs for Davidson stu-
dents as dormitory janitors. In
addition, we urge that Sgt. Pen-
ley’s career be terminated, and
that his job be turned over to

the students on each hall. We
feel that peer group pressure en
the new student janiters weuld

exert a yet to be experienced
bathroom sanitation.

We see three advantages to
this solution: 1) It would help
the budget people with their ru-
mored deficit problem, for the
work-study jobs could be gen-
erated at a substantial ‘savings
over the present setup: 2) It
would enable the Admissions
and Financial Aid people to of-
set any possible budget cutbacks
in their financial aid programs,
and, 3) It would greatly’ add to
the liberal education of many
Davidson students to become
familiar with the logistics of
disirfecting toilet bowls. (We
say this in all seriousness; the
Protestant work ethic is not to
be sneezed at).

The single disadvantage is
that this would directly repudi-
ate the college's self-proclaimed
commitment to the “continuing
college community:"' specifical-
ly, that community existing on
the other side of .the railroad
tracks. Not wishing to appear
overly callous and entirely de-
void of social consciousness, our
second proposal does not in-
volve firing any janitors. It cen-
ters itself on the quality of the
supervistory staff, and is based
on the assumption that the
quality of custodial room and
bathroom care is directly corre-
lated with the quality and quan-
tity of supervision exercisesd
by the Physical Plant Office.

In light of our epinien thet
this supervision, at present, is
painfully inadequate we recom:
mend rolling a few unnecessary
heads. This proposal, by the
way, would enable those respon-
sible for initiating the head-rell-
ing to put their hard earned
M.B.A.'s to wisible use. In addi-
tion, it would aid in making our
employees work for what we
pay them, since these ineffi-
cient supervisors would neces-
sarily be replaced by one per-
son, who before he was hired
would have to demonstrate te
his hirers and to his workers
that he was not a clown and
could definitely command re-
spect.

A ay ct ete SS 4

| Entertainment

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

The Old Time Fiddler’s Con-
vention will be held Easter
weekend at the VanHoy farm
in Union Grove. More than 150
bands will compete in the old-
time band and blue grass en-
semble divisions. After two days
of elimination, the best 48 bands
will begin the final competition
at 6:30 p.m. Saturday. Contests
will also be held for best fiddle,
banjo, bass, mandolin, guitar
and dobro players.

A craft fair of handmade
mountain products and demon
Strations of quilting, weaving.
dulcimer and fiddle making will
be held in the old barn. Tickets
for this 48th edition (three years

older than the Grand Ole Opry)

cost $4 for Friday, $5 for Satur-
day or $7 for both.

“Child's Play” by Robert Mar-
asco opens April 6 at the Little
Theatre of Charlotte with the
curtain rising at 8:30 p.m. The
thriller will run for seven per-
formances with evening shows
April 6, 7, 8, 13, 14 and 15 and
a Sunday matinee ‘April 9 at
2:30. Student tickéts:are $1.50.

The J. T. Neal Gospel Sing
will be held at the Park Center
at 2 p.m. April 2. Admission. is
$2.50.

The Billy Graham Crusede
vill present evangelist Billy
Graham April 5 through 9 at
7:30 p.m. in the Charlotte Coli-
seum-Ovens Auditorium com.
plex.
