Page Six September 29, 1972

The Davidsonian

Contractors Pour Foundation,
Construct Retaining Walls

By RICHARD ROMEYN
Staff Writer

Foreman on the construction job of the new

library is Justin Rohney. who feels that work on
the library is progressing smoothly

‘‘We have experienced no special problems.
and I can foresee none in the immediate future.”
he said

The excavation for the basement and foun-
dation was made in midsummer. and the first
segment of the foundation were poured in early
September

Work on the foundation and the retaining wall
of the basement are in progress at the present
time. In addition various subcontractors are at
work installing electrical and plumbing com-
ponents

An overall crew of around 25 men is emploved.
many of them are laborers from the Davidson-
Mooresville areas

The construction of the basement retaining
wall will be the next advancement most
noticeable to those on campus

Whereas the foundations were poured directly
trom the trucks. both crane and cement pumps
will be utilized to ratse the concrete in the wall
torms ;

The torms are built in sections of thirty feet
each. and will be alternately filled) After a
curing period of three days the remaining sec-
tions wall be tilled

The cement used will become 75 per cent dry in

seven days and will obtain its designed strength

atter a period of 28 days

Rohnex said he hopes to see cool. shghtly
hunnd weather because it is best tor curing. Dry
neat during curing tends to reduce the strength
of the concrete

Construction is planned to continue throughout
the winter months No slew down in work is an-
uicipated. but Rohney indicated that bad weather
could present many problems

“We hope to have a root over our heads by the
time bad weather comes.” he said

The library has undergone several structural
modifications to accomodate irregularities in the
building site

No bedrock could be tound so the foundations
will rest on soil composed of a mixture of sand,
clay. and silt

The soil is not expected to settle or shift
radically. however, the engineers took the
precaution of specifying heavy foundations « both
wider than normal and 30 inches thick }

The various separate components of the foun-
dation will be tied together with one inch steel
rods to provide structural unity and strength.

A new system of laying the foundations called
post tension will be used. In post tension cables
are lain in liquid concrete, affixed to both sides of

the form and then tightened, thus providing for
greater-strength.

Rohney indicated that without these
precautions there might be a possibility of the
foundations rupturing

The superstructure of the library will be sup-
ported by pillars based on hexagonal blocks.
These pillars will be the sole support of the
above-ground stories and the roof

Structurally the wall will support nothing. A
mesh of cables in each tloor will tie into these
pillars

The mounds of earth scattered about the
building site will be used tor fill

The rerouting ot several pipe lines caused
complications and delayed the start of the ex-
cavation Among those rerouted were sewer and
water lines

A blocked steam pipe has left the chemistry
department without distilled water

By Christmas the form of the brary should
have risen fromthe mudflats. and before students
leave tor the summer. the superstructure will
have been completed and work on the masonry

begun.

The Fall and
the Rise

These series of photos depict the demolition
of the David Ovens College Union, which
took place this summer, and the beginning
construction for the new E. H. Little
Library. The demolition began with cranes
and bulldozers battering the walls of the
Union. Once the debris had been removed,
earth movers arrived to level the ground in
preparation for laying the foundation. At
present the construction crew is using iron
formes to build the retaining wall for the
basement. Pipelines were rerouted along
with electrical power lines. Although the
current construction may not appear to be
similar to the artist's conception of what the
library will finally look like, construction of-
ficials still claim the new building will be
finished by 1974.

Staff Photos
by
Bill Barnes
and
Earl Lawrimore
