—— aa

Che Bauidsonian

“THERE (S ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
THERE (S A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT [tS HAP-

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR oe |

Soccer Needs More Support;

PENING.” Marshall McLuhan ; e . ’
Mc WLS, ae nh P. M t Explained

To the Editor: Athletic Department give all I refused, ‘hiding behind” their

PAGE TWO APRIL 21, 1972 In the past several years col- sports due consideration in a concern for me as their brother,

Beautification Shows Pride

Spring has not only brought the dogwoods out in full
bloom, but it has also ushered in some horticultural addi-
tions to the grounds of the college. One cannot help but
notice the trees, flowers and shrubbery which have ap-
peared suddenly on campus.

These new additions are duc in part to the plans
of the landscape architectural firm of Umberto Innocenti--
Richard K. Webel of Long Island, New York, which is do-
ing the landscaping plan for the new library. This firm
made the decision on the location of the newly planted
vaks and maples in the front campus. According to director
of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr., Dutch Elm di-
sease has taken its toll on campus in the past few years,
making it necessary to plant new trees. Also a snow storm
in the recent past caused $5,000 worth of damage to the
grounds, and the grounds crew attempted to save the
trees damaged by the snow storm. However a number of
them were lost. The 20 trees which have been planted so
far to replace the elms which were diseased or destroyed
will be augmented by the planting of other trees when
the comprehenseive landscape design of Innocenti-Webel
is completed.

Another unusual feature of this year’s spring at Dav-
idson which deserves commendation is the sudden appear-
ance of transplanted flowers at strategic locations through-
out the campus. Unfortunately the unseasonably cold wea-
ther killed some of them, but others survived to add to the
pleasing appearance of the campus.

It is refreshing that someone in the administration such

' as Meetze has had the vision to plan for the future. The
improvements being made are a praiseworthy attempt to
preserve a natural environment for the future. The up-
keep of the grounds may appear to some to be of minor
importance, but we would like to think that well-kept
grounds are an indication of an institution’s pride in itself.
Spring has come with its new life and hope for the future.

A Housing Disgrace

The married student housing situation at Davidson is
deplorable. At the present time there are only between
four and eight coliege-owned units available for rent by
married students.

Not only are some of these units a considerable dis-
tance from the college proper, but the condition of the
houses themselves could at best be termed ramshackle.

Several student initiated studies have strongly re-
vealed the need for more and better housing. In 1968, Phil
Hazel presented a study which stated that the location of
married student housing could determine whether or not
‘a couple could achieve any meaningful relationship with
the college or with friends.

In a report to the Senate in 1970, Tom Robertson ad-
vocated that the college provide land and build an apart-
ment complex to house married couples.

And finally last fall, Michael Johnson compiled a re-
port concluding that there “exists a demand for 15 or 20
new units” in close proximity to the campus if possible.

Despite these studies, the college has not even issued
a policy statement as to its responsibility to the married stu-
dent.

The administration seems to be very leery of com-
mitting itself to building any housing because the finan-
cial prospects seem rather bleak now. But certainly, there
are other avenues open to improve the situation.

Every effort could be made on the part of the admin-
istration to encourage private investors to build an apart-
inent complex.

Even if the rent is higher than that presently being
paid by married students, there seems to be a willingness
on the part of many to pay a higher rent in return for
better facilities.

Both Will Terry and Director of Housing. Scotty Ni-
cholls have expressed approval of the construction of hhous-
es by private investors, with the stipulation that such hous-
ing be accorded only to Davidson students.

This problem arises because some investors might
like to rent such units to others beside Davidson students

__ We feel that the college could work out an agreement
with these people to guarantee that Davidson couples would
occupy a given number of houses every year, so that the
investor would not lose money from unrented apartments.

However, Vice President for Finance and Development
C. David Cornell has indicated that the college will take
no action in the next two years as far as building is con-
cerned.

This would be a tragic mistake. The college should
assume responsibility to make some decision to improve
the P t of the married student. The’ administration has
long enough.

lege athletic programs have
come under close scrutiny by
students, faculty and the NC-
AA. Davidson is beginning to
follow this same trend as wit-
nessed by the recent discus-
sions on subsidized football. In
light of this searching for new
uthletic priorities, the Soccer
Team wishes to make its posi-
tion clear.

Since the mid-30’s Davidson
Soccer has been a second rate
spoit enjoyed by those who hap-
pened upon the game. In the
last several years however, in-
terest nationwide has been snow-
balling and local fan and stu-
dent participation has netted
consecutive Southern Conference
Championships.

More and more players from
all sections of the country and
the world are enjoying the Soc-
cer Club and Varsity Team. We
feel that some definite attempts
should be made to strengthen
and encourage soccer as a part
of our complete athletic pro-
gram.

In the past, members of the
varsity could not even check
out soccer balls or even have
decent goals to shoot at. It was
not until P.E. Soccer was offer-
ed this spring that our portable
goals were again set up. Only
small, rubber kickballs can be
checked out from Junior B.
Even though the Varsity slaugh-
tered numerous teams this year,
our mew. schedule has been
weakened. Instead of pushing
for some good games with North
Carolina, we added High Point.
The Athletic Department has al-
lowed disgraceful referees to
continually officiate home
games. In fact, a strong push is
needed now by a leading school
to keep the soccer portion of
the Southern Conference from
collapsing.

A lot of turmoil has been
stirred up in the past several
months over our coaching situa-
tion. For a while Coach Fogle-
[man was undecided about re-
turning as coach next year, now
he feels capuble of assuming
those responsibilities. With some
hard work we all feel we will be
u force to contend with next
year. However, it is obvious
that Coach Fogleman will prob-
ly step down in a year or s.

The Soccer Team feels that
the Athletic Department should
begin now to seek out a quali-
fied soccer coach instead of giv-
ing someone already in the de-
partment that added task. A
combination soccer-track coach
seems a very likely possibility
as Coach Whittle retires. We
want soccer to keep on building
into a fine, successful sport in-
stead of stagnating in its pres-
ent condition. We are on the
verge of real national competi-
tion and recognition, let's get it.

Naturally the Soccer Team en-
courages further discussion of
the future of sports. It seems
much more realistic for a small
school to participate and em-
phasize the sports of which it
is capable of carrying. We ask
that the Faculty Committee on
Athletics make some positive
goals for Davidson athletics to
obtain. And we ask that our

total athletic program.

The Davidson College
The Soccer Team

To the Editor:

This is in reply to Mr. E. P.
Thornton’s letter in the 31
March DAVIDSONIAN. He asks
us to envision Davidson as the
world divided between the ag-
gressive ‘‘Communists” and the
‘“*bare-breasted passive peace-
niks.” Given this division he
then describes the passive down-
fall of the latter group.

Unfortunately I find several
fallacies in his proposal to cor-
rect the direction of the so-
ciety.

He states that ‘the ‘master
and slave’ faction would be
heavily armed .. .” and use
this armament to subdue their
opponents and control their
thoughts. Five paragraphs later
however, he reminds us that
David, or the ‘‘good Christian
faction . . . .must likewise be
armed since their peace symbol
will afford them no protection.”

Mr. Thornton questions that
their peace symbol would suc-
ceed in shaming their aggres-
sors into permitting their life.
Maybe it won't shame them but
it sure will confuse them.

I cite the personal example
of being once accosted by a
motorcycle gang. When they
told me to give them my money

OMEN ES

Ce ae nea a

outside

and offering them what help I
could, outside of being their
victim. They scratched their
heads and went off disgusted.

Maybe “‘bare hands will not
pievail against knives and
guns,” but who said anything
about using bare hands as a
weapon? I want no weapon oth-
er than love. With that alone I
will walk at night through
neighborhoods that others de-
tour while driving.

You also state that “an ath-
eist cannot follow a Christian
example.” This may be true if
the example were solely Chris-
tian. However, many tenets of
Christianity are humanistic ex-
amples that existed before and
jn other cultures than Chris-
tianity; even some you would
call ‘‘atheistic.”

I have even publically advo-
cated total and unconditional
American military withdrawal
from Southeast Asia. I have
done this because all people
deserve freedom. Yes, even
though some analysts say that
our withdrawal may delay
their obtaining the freedom to
choose their political, economic,
or social system, I advocate it.

I do so because to choose
their life they must first have
the freedom to live. We are
denying them this freedom
every day.

Bill Barnes ‘74
Davidson College

Se I a a gaa RE NT ha Lr ettarged,

perspective

By LEX VEAZEY

J se SRM RRC

a SS, QA saree ery ere team

Erich Segal Denied Tenure

Erich Segal, the author of the best-selling novel “Love
Story”has been denied tenure as a professor of classical
literature at Yale University because of his many outside
interests. Instead, Segal has been offered a senior lecture-
ship which university officials said would be “less restric-

tive” on his time.

Segal has been the sub

his novel ‘Love Story”

ject of dispute at Yale since
became one of the most extra-

ordinary publishing and motion-picture successes in his-
tory. His life-style changed from that of a popular teach-

er to an international figure.
said that “the interest in Se
to me; I just wish they’d leav

One Yale faculty member
gal seems rather ghoulish -

e the poor guy alone.”

N. C. Students Seek Legal Aid

A proposal for a legal defense corporation for stu-

dents comprised of the 16 N.

and universities recently

C. state-supported colleges

was presented to the student

body presidents of these colleges at a conference at N. C.
State University. Since state laws prohibit the hiring of
lawyers by student governments, it is necessary to estab-

lish the corporation.

If formed, the legal defense corporation will be a
large scale model of the corporation now at N. C. State.
This corporation was founded under the principle that
student government should do any and everything _
sible to protect the rights and well-being of the student

body.”

Students Organize Food Services Program

_A student-operated food service program at the Uni-
versity of Connecticut appears to be a great success. The
non-profit $2.5 million-a-year operation is called the As-
sociated Student Commissaries (ASC). It provides two mil-
lion meals annually for more than 4,000 students. It em-
ploys 140 fulltime and 700 part-time workers.

Undergraduates in 58 dormitories delegate the man-
agement of their kitchens to the ASC which hires a chef,
buys the food, provides dietary supervision, insures quali-
ty control, maintains records, and trains food handiers.
