Che Bauidsnanian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT (S HAP-
PENING.”’ —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR MARCH 24, 1972

Coeducation Delay

A report on the feasibility of Davidson’s becoming co-
educational is still not released, and the probability of Dav-
idson’s becoming coeducational grows dimmer as each day
passes by.

The blame for this delay in Davidson’s coeducation
plans lies squarely on the shoulders of the Subcommittee
on Coeducation of the Budget, Buildings and Grouads Com-
mittee. A report on the educational feasibility of coeduca-
tion coming to this campus was completed over a month ago,

but no one knows if Davidson can afford to become coeduca-.

tional.

At the Monday afternoon meeting of the Educational
Policy Committee (EPC), College Comptroller Robert W.
Davidson was scheduled to explain the financial aspects of
the transition to coeducation. Monday was to be a great
day in the history of Davidson, and even College President
Samuel R. Spencer was present.

In a technical sense Davidson did make a report, but his
“report was worthless and an insult to the fine report
of the EPC Subcommittee on Coeducation. Davidson ex-
plained that he had no concrete recommendation to make,
and he did not know when any would be made. Those pre-
sent sat in stunned silence as Davidson explained that he
had only reviewed the recommendations of the EPC Sub-
committee on Coeducation. Not only had Davidson done
little research, he was going to rely on a three year old
report on the costs of going coeducational.

The financial study has been handled poorly from the
beginning. Vice President for Finance and Development
C. David Cornell did not impress on his subordinates the
importance of the study of the costs of going coeducation-
al. Consequently. the Budget, Buildings. and Gounds Com-
mittee, which he chairs, refused to take up the matter un-
til the EPC studv had been completed. It was stated that
they needed a definite plan to do a cost analysis of, and
assurances were given that it would take no time at all
to do a cost analysis once the EPC report was released.
The history of the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Sub-
committee on Coeducation has been filled with procrastin-
ation, inefficiency, and unresponsiveness to the college
community.

We are aware that the preparation of the budget is
time consuming, but this is no excuse for the uncon-
scionable disregard of the true priorities of Davidson.

Budget Secrecy

At Tuesday morning's Any Questions session, Vice
President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell
flatly stated his refusal to release the line by line pro-
posed budget for next year. Yet he affirmed that the fin-
ance offices will be “completely open” about any query
on any particular subject. This appears to be a contra-
diction.

Cornell justified his position by saying that students
and faculty had “ample time” to look over the line by
line budget at Monday’s Budget, Buildings, and Grounds
meeting, and that they had the opportunity to raise any
questions: concerning financial priorities. But it seems
to us that three hours is not nearly enough time for any-
one to analyze a 40 page budget. What has happened is
that the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee is mere-
ly a rubber stamp for the budget. Administrators contend
that by meeting one time with the faculty committee,
that they have fulfilled the requirements of consultation.

Secondly, Cornell argued that details of the budget,
if released would cause the constituencies of the. college
“to be at each other’s throat” over certain items such as
expense accounts. ‘‘We would have to have a footnote a
page long for each item if we released the budget,” Cor-
nell said. “But there are valid justifications for all expen-
ses,” he said.

These arguments are not very persuasive. At a time
when financial priorities are of critical importance the
college should make every effort to justify its expenses.
Although a summary budget is available, it does not give
a detailed picture of where the money goes; a breakdown
is imperative for any authoritative analysis.

Such weak arguments make the question of the line
by line budget even more relevant. While we do not ques-
tion the integrity: of the business staff, we do believe they
should be more open in their procedures. These men are
primarily paid to juggle figures, not to understand the
needs of the college. Complete openness in budget pro-
ceedings will eradicate the suspicions of mismanagement
that faculty or students might harbor.

‘Miscellany’ Awarded Alpo

By BOBBY ALLEN
Statf Writer

As a rule, I'm not ‘a real big
fan of college literary maga-
zines. I get tired of reading
poem after poem about sex, in-
sanity and death—usually sui-
cide. (War death used to be a
biggy, but its stock dropped
with the draft calls.) Someday
T’ll write the great literary
magazine poem about an over-
sexed schizophrenic with Par-
kinson's disease atid become in-
stantly famous.

So when I was asked to re-
view the winter issue of ‘The
Miscellany.” I gleefully ac-
cepted—expecting the opportun-
ity to vent the frustrations of a
would-be writer of other than
journalismese and bored reader
of litmagazineese. What did it
matter if I hadn't read ‘‘The
Miscellany’?

Poison pen in hand, I scanned
it—reading the shorter poems,
pausing to admire Herb Jack-
son’s marvelous ‘‘Revelation”
etchings, noting the style and
subject matter of the fiction.
Hmmm. Not much meat here
for my caustic criticism—only
two or three madness poems
and they’re not that bad. Bet-
ter read it again.

Second time through I read
Peter Graham’s poems and de-
cided to dogear the few pieces
I liked. That meant I had to
fold down the next page: Her-
man Myrick's short-short story,
“The Dry Spell;” and Robert
Grey's three poems (First Place
“The Miscellany” Poetry Con-
test); and Ann Deagon’s second
place poems—especially ‘‘Aug-
ury,” my _ personal favorite:

Ss /
of bs

—
aa

<2

ae,

and ‘‘Lavabo,” the first place
ficticn winner by Alan Bara-
gona: and Frank Soos’ story:
and Sam Gwynn’s poem, and
certainly E. F. Patterson’s sen-
sitive observations on India and
Nepal and Dr. Clark’s accom-
panying sketches. What had I
done? My “Miscellany” had
more dogears than the Charlotte
Pound.

The third reading brought
down more corners: I had over-
looked ‘‘Sixteen,” by Juanita
Dawson: ‘Straight Down The
Middle” by Charles Stetler, and
William McLaughlin’s two po-
ems,

VICIOUS CRITIC DOMESTI-
CATED BY DOGEARS. I real-
ly enjoyed reading “The Mis-

Sy RM

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

“The Miser” by French play-
wright Moliere is being present-
ed in English by the Queens
College Drama department to-
night and tomorrow at 8:15 p.m.
in Dana Auditorium. Student
tickets are $.50.

“Hedda Gabbler,’ a pliy by
Henrick Ibsen, is being present-
ed in the Rowe Creative Arts
Building at UNCC through Sat-
urday. Student tickets to this
student production are $l.

An Acting Studio tl Perform-
ance featuring parts of Anouilh's
‘‘Antigone,” Ibsen’s *‘Peer Gynt”
and Shakespeare’s ‘‘Measure
For Measure” will be presented
by the UNC-C Drama depart-
ment in the Rowe Creative

A DRG thy Sek Ops SLE a SEF FO aly ve

Entertainment

\
NZ Pky, AE
NG DAVID CORNEL

Saeces oe ~ =
Wy MACHINE ———
ee OE) Sein”

i
es 482532 23S 22

lf | Keep Feedin’ This Thing, Somethin’s Bound To Come Out!

For New Dogeared Issue

cellany.” The overall quality of
the material is very high—better
than any other issue of “The

Miscellany” I have read, and
definitely higher than your aver-
age college literary magazine. It
merits rereading two or three
times. Some pieces need a dog-
ear so you won't forget te go
back and read them more close-
ly.

Some of the credit for the
high quality goes to the pres-
ence of pieces by foreigners
(New York/Chicago non-David-
sco types) but the Davidson
writers made a good showing.

So from this formerly caustic
critic to Mark Meza and his
staff goes a congratulatory Bow-
Wow and a can of Alpo.

ul

Arts Building on March 28 at
2:30 p.m. There is no admis-
sion charge.

Sonny and Cher will appear
in concert March 27 at 8:00 p.m.
in the Charlotte Coliseum. Tick-
ets are $4, $5 and $6.

The Harlem Globetrotters will
play ball in the Charlotte Coli-
seum March 26 at 3 p.m. Tick-
ets to view their antics cost
$3.50 and $4.

Deep Purple and Bloody Mary
headline a concert at the Park
Center March 26 at 8 p.m. Tick-
ets are $5.

Paintings and prints by Rob-
ert Williams will be on display
in the Garden Gallery of the
Mint Museum until April 5. The
former Davidson instructor is
now a professor at Queens.

