Ghe Bavidsonian
“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAP-

PENING.” —Marsha!ll McLuhan
RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager
PAGE FOUR MARCH 10, 1972

Top Secret?

At this week's “Any Questions?’ session with the ad-
ministration, the discussion turned to coeducation when one
student asked the status of the long-awaited coeducation
report. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan
responded, saying that the Educational Policy Committee
(EPC) had written the actual plan of implementation, and
that the committee was now waiting for the Business Office
to complete a cost-analysis of the plan. The student then
asked what the plan entailed; Dr. Bevan evaded the ques-
tion. The student persisted, and Dr. Bevan finally replied,
‘I’m sorry. but the report is confidential.”

This is not an unusual response to a student query. In
fact it seems as if there is hardly an issue on this campus
that is not confidential. Rarely does a weck pass withoul
a faculty member or an administrator avoiding student ques-
tions with such lame excuses as: ‘We have not made a
final decision on that issue vet.” or “I cannot give you this
information until I distribute it to the faculty.”

A typical example occurred this fall when THE DAVID-
SONIAN published a front page story reporting that the
EPC had approved the three-year graduation plan (program
for accelerated progress). Since the newspaper regularly
covers E??C meetings, this was not a departure from exist-
ing procedures. Dr. Bevan, under pressure from some fa-
culty members, dashed off a memo to the reporter and
castigated him for writing the story without the vice pre-
sident’s approval and before the EPC decision had been
distributed to the faculty.

The fact remains that after the EPC had passed the
measure, there was no real reason why it could not have
been reported. Surely no member of this faculty is so ego-
tistical or so childish to believe he should be the first to
hear the news. And surely no faculty member who is con-
cerned about the financial solvency of the college would
encourage the wasted time and paper involved in constantly
mimeographing proposals. Yet faculty members of faculty
committees seem to enjoy this game of secrecy or what
might be called the “I know something that you don’t
know” syndrome.

We feel that if faculty committees are really concerned
about making decisions in the best interests of the college,
thev will debate the issues in the public forum rather than
in the ivory tower. Such secrecy makes us ask: What do
faculty committees have to hide?

The fact remains that many things are kept secret sim-
ply because they have traditionally remained secret. The
administration has been just as guilty of secrecy as the fa-
culty. In the past several months, first floor Chambers has
begun to think and act like the Pentagon, with public in-
formation kept private under the cloak of administrative
privilege. In other words the college wants to control the
informational sources of students and faculty. We under-
stand that such areas which include personalities are nat-
urally sensitive and therefore should not be publicised. But
issues are issues, with arguments pro and con. Publication
will injure no one.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has made sev-
eral laudable attempts this year to break down the web of
secrecy which shrouds the decision-making process. He
made every effort to be completely open in the delibera-
tions over the placement of the temporary Union. But un-
fortunately some of his subordinates in the administration
decided not to follow his lead.

When something is kept secret, it indicates that some.
one may be trying to hide something. In a sense secrecy is a
device to protect the guilty. Such argumentation leads to
the ultimate question: What does this administration have
to hide? The question is especially relevant this month as
the Business Office finishes next year’s budget. We under-
stand why individual faculty salaries should not be pub-
licised; individuals have a right to their privacy. But there
is no justification for the Business Office to hide the line by
line budget of college services and operating funds.

The Governance Committee under Walter Lingle’s di-
rection seems to have taken the only sane approach to con-
fidentiality. The actions of the committee are publicised
meeting by meeting without any record of who said what.
Since the focus is on the issues not personalities, the com-
mittee works in an atmosphere of openness with the rest of
the community.

Davidson College is not a very happy place at the mom-
ent, and one contributing factor is routine secrecy. Just as
the credibility of the federal government has been under-
mined by revelations of secret happenings, so the credibility
of me administration and many faculty committees is being
erode

Again we ask: What do you have to hide?

GRAY WILSON

Social System Edict Causes
Polarization Among Students

It is that time of year, one
term later than in previous
years, when Patterson Court
holds rush, which you may call
open house, or open _ house,
which you may call fraternity
rush. But be careful what you
call it.

This time, ten weeks later
than usual (which you may call
administrative lag), Davidson is
supposed to experience a new
dawning in its social life, with
nifty self-selective opportunities
to allow freshmen freedom of
choice as long as personal pref-
erence and taste are not so ex-
clusive as to threaten human-
ity.

The password is “variety.”
You may call it a marked in-
discriminate propensity for di-
versification, which means that
the roll call this time includes
national and local fraternities,
eating clubs, front organizations
for crafty off-campus fraterni-
ties( Son of Snu), vacant houses
start your own commune), and
a German theatre to pick from
when freshmen make up their
minds.

Of course the freshmen have
had twenty weeks of other
chances to visit the court, ran-
domly. Chances to eat a meal,
to get to know what all the food
in every house is really like, to
commune with chipped beef on
toast. And they better do a good
job of sampling because the
Union will be gone next year
and the A&R Ralphing Rodeo
will descend upon the court en
masse.

There was one problem, how-
ever, which will result from
this week’s activities. There
were not enough options, which
you may call a lack of variety.
The fraternity men _ couldn't
keep the undesirables who liked
them out. The desirables conse-
quently couldn’t all get in be-
cause the undesirables wanted
in too. The locals will get stuck
with some who wanted to be
naticnal because there was no
more room in the other houses.

Thus half the freshmen who
wanted something more mean-
ingful than a place at the table
on Patterson Court could not get
it while the other half that didn‘t
want much got something they
did not want at all. This is how
random assignment and self-se-
lection do not work. But watch
what you say about them.

Turning back the academic
calendar a year or sO, one may
examine the source of the pres-
ent social amoeba at Davidson.
It all began with the presiden-
tial premise that students at
this school were a little better
than human, that everyone
would have something socially
and intellectually valuable to
offer to everyone else.

The conclusion: a random
grouping of students on Patter-
son Court, tempered by self-se-
lection to divide the number
evenly among the houses, would
create a hive buzzzing with mel-
lifluous actiity and humanitari-
an productivity. The result: an
antheap.

The president was wrong,
wrong in principle. Some houses
folded, others compromised,

some hung on to their house
and its former identity, a few
daring ones fled off campus and
to geographic immunity. Those
which were nothing before the
crisis died or just remained
nothing.

The interesting groups were
those which survived, not out of
spite, but through the very cun-
oing and creativity that are
part of the human nature which
the president despised and con-
sequently ignored in his basic
plan.

So what, in a year or so, have
been the results of such admin-
istrative blundering? The most
obvious effect is the polariza
tion which exists among differ-
ent groups of students diamet-
rically opposed in opinion and
temperament though compara-
ble in intelligence.

A second result is the general
student distrust and disdain for
the administration, most recent-
ly manifested by the successful
movement to abolish a compte-
hensive board fee, another little
financial pressure to ‘‘encour-
age” the new social system.

Perhaps the most tragic re-
sult of the changes on Patter-
son Court can be seen among
the freshmen. Unable to perfect
themselves in time to adjust to
an egalitarian social life after
so many years of living in the
“real world,” they have become
disillusioned with the emptiness
and artificiality of campus so-
ciety.

There is hope, or rather a
choice, however, whichever you
may wish to call it. Davidson
must move in either of two dis-
tinctive directions in the coming
years. One would be to abandon

a SO RRNR aR MIR

Entertainment |

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

Ringling Bros. and Barnum &
Bailey Circus will present ‘‘a
cornucopia of fantastic human
and animal acts and daring-do
performances unfolding without
letup in a dazzling, heady suc-
cession of breath-taking, death-
defying moments” at the Char-
lotte Coliseum March 15-19.
Tickets range from $3 to $5 for
the ten performances: Wednes-
day at 8:15 p.m.; Thursday at
4:15 and 8:15 p.m.; Friday at
4:15 and 8:15 p.m.; Saturday at
11 a.m., 3 and 8 p.m., and Sun.
day at 2:30 and 6:30 p.m.
David Baqv-lilan, an Israeli
pianist, returns to the Charlotte
Community Concerts Saturday
night at 8:15 p.m. in Ovens Au
ditorium. Admission is normal-
ly by season ticket, but a few
singles may be sold at the door
for $5 each.

“Consumerism 1972: Laisez
faire Re-examined” is the sub-
ject of this year’s Focus '72 at
Randolf-Macon Woman’s_ Col-
lege March 29 and 30. Keynote
speaker Ralph Nader will ad-
dress the symposium at 8 p.m.
Wednesday. Following a day of
informal seminars, Betty Fur-
ness will speak at 7:30 p.m.
Thursday. Tickets are $4 and
are available at Davidson from

the principles which have char.
acterized the past and the tra-
ditional image of this school for
a college attended by students
who approve of the new system
and its presidential and admin-
istrative advocates, or tryants,

whichever you may wish to call
them. 4

The other direction would be
to preserve those principles
which are still desirable and
viable at Davidson while leav-
ing social life entirely up to the
student body, meaning of course
that the students conceivably
entertain opinions and insights
contrary to the present admin-
istrative stance. ‘

The important conclusion
about this second direction, how-
ever, is that it does not point to
a return to the old social sys-
tem but to the uninhibited de-
velopment (non in loco parentis)
of a setup all its own, tailored
to suit all student tastes. 7

Not everyone liked the old
system. Few like the new sys-
tem. The desirable direction
then is one which allows the
students to choose their own
type of social life. be it one ho
mogeneous structure or a maze
of 1,000 individual organiza-
tions.

Again I stress that the deci-
sion to accept the new social
system as it presently flounders
or to choose another one must
be left up to the student body.
There can be no compromise on
random assignment and self- se
lection because they are con-
trary in principle to human na-
ture, not to mention life. No
administrative edict can sup-
plant this fact.

pi gte owes:

pepe:

ba i

Ralph Peeples.

“A Cry of Players” by Wil-
liam Gibson will be presented
by the Drama department of
Central Piedmont Community
College March 16, 17 and 18.
Tickets to this earthy semi-
biography of William Shake-
speare are $1.50 at the door but
can be reserved for $1 by call-
ing CPCC.

“Hamlet” by William Shake-
speare will be shown at 8 p.m.
Wednesday in the Denny Build-
ing at UNC-C. The soundtrack
of the movie is in German, but

English sub-titles have been
added. There is no admission
charge.

“How to Succeed at Business
Without Really Trying” is the
current production at the Pine-
ville Dinner Theatre. Shepard
Meades comedy stars Phil
Freeman and Martin Mac-
Donald. The buffet opens at 7
p.m. with the curtain rising at
8:45, Prices range from $7 to
$10, depending on the night.

“Games and Pictures”, a set
of three short plays written by
UNC-C students, will be pre-
sented at 8:15 p.m. March 9,
10 and 11 in the Experimental
Theatre of the Rowe Creative
Arts Building on the UNC-C
campus. Student admission is

$1,
