Staff Photos
by

Bill Barnes.

MELLON

PE ES

Seg

faaetspas

wR

ECU Takes °Gil Thorpe’ Win

By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

In spite of all the pre-tournament hoopla,
the Southern Conference Tournament belonged
to neither Davidson nor Furman, but rather to
Fast Carolina.

The Tournament is the proving ground for
SC teams, and the Pirates burst out of their
fourth place regular season rating to undisputed
Conference champ by upsetting both the Wild
cats in the semifinals,and the Paladins in the
finals.

The Tournament victory wins the Pirates
the privilege of representing the Southern Conf-
erence in the NCAA regional tourney, and the
somewhat less palatable honor of tackling Vil-
lanova in that game.

Pricr to the semi-finals of the tournament,
most people involved felt that the finals would
be a rematch of the Furman-Davidson clash
held several weeks before in Greenville’s Mem
orial Auditorium.

But East Carolina obviously had come to the
tournament with the intention of winning. and
played much better, both as a team and _ indi
vidually, than they had in the regular season.

The Pirates offered little promise of being
« world-shaker in their opening round game with
The Citadel.

The Bulldogs held a slim margin at the half.
but ECU came back to win in the last 10 minutes
of the game.

The only sign of things to come in the open
ing round was the unconvincing play of the Wild
cats against Appalachian State, the Conference's
hewest team.

The ‘Cats were never able to get a command
ing lead in the game, but finally outran the Apps
87 77,

The ECU team seemed to have been pre
pared for the tournament both physically and
mentally. All of the players, notably Jim Fair-
ley and Al Faber, performed better than they
had during the season, indeed better than any-
one had thought possible prior to the tourney.

In the Davidson game, the Pirates took in
20 more rebounds than the regular season champs,
and improved their shooting percentage from
30 per cent in the first half to near 70 per cent
for the game.

ECU's win over Furman in the finals was
even more dramatic. It seemed like something
out of Gil Thorpe.

The Paladins led by two points with 10 se-
conds remaining in the game when Fairley hit
#-15-foot jumper to put the match into overtime.

Fairley had been the player that had almost sin-
gle-handedly kept ECU in the game with the Wild-
cats, and was awarded the tourney MVP trophy
for his performance.

In overtime it boiled down again to a last-
second shot. Russ Hunt was at the line for Fur
man with a chance to ice the game. The teams
were tied and Hunt had a one-and-one shot with
eight seconds remaining.

Hunt hit the first, giving the Paladins a one
point lead, but missed the second. Faber took
the rebound and drove upcourt. He fired from
centercourt and rimmed the basket.

Teammate Nicky White was standing be.
neath the goal, and the rebound fell into his
hands. He laid it in as the buzzer sounded, win-
ning the game for the Pirates.

East Carolina played the unexpected role of
giant-killer in the tournament, playing beter than
any of the other teams, and better than they had
during the season. It was like something out of
Gil Thorpe.

The Davidsonian

March 10, 1972

Page Seven

