Six

October 19, 1973

The Davidsonian

Mild Miller Flavor Dominates
Heavy Guitar In ‘The Joker’

By WILL ROBERTSON
Staff Writer

Last night I ran into an old
friend. He had always been
pretty sharp, but I hadn't seen
him for a few years and I had
heard a few bad things about
him.

I was very pleased to find that
my old friend is neater than
ever and hanging out with a
fine bunch of fellows.

In other words, Steve Miller's
new album, ‘‘The Joker,”’ is one
of the nicest surprises of the
year. Miller has a new band,
and they play some extremely
slippery rock and roll with the
traditional Miller flavor.

Miller's appeal always came
from a completely unique airy
quality. On this album he
displays the mellow Miller
voice and instrumentals that
are so fine.

“Sugar Babe” is a fine song
that begins the album. It’s a
good party song with very com-
petent guitar.

Miller is now playing some
exceedingly aggressive leads
that are somewhat in the Mick
Taylor style.

Miller is also flash on the

guitar on the title cut. This is
perhaps the best song on the
album - very authoritative in-
strumentally, with exemplary
use of the wah-wah.

The album has two live cuts,
the first, an old Woody Payne
blues number, ‘Come On In My
Kitchen.’ This song does not
appeal to me a great deal, but a
Steve Miller album would not be
complete without a few weak
cuts.

The second live song, “Evil.”
is much better, with very good
vocals, and interests me in
seeing Miller's concert in
Charlotte next Saturday.

The guitar is a bit overdone at
times, but with a few good licks.
also.

It was always great to turn
the stereo up to wall-shaking
volume and sing along with
Miller. ‘‘Something to Believe
In”’ is the sing-along tune on this
album. and it is a fine one.

The chorus is pretty, and
astral stratocaster notes float
about along with the steel
guitar. All together now.

Steve Miller Band. ‘‘The
Joker."’ An old friend is back in
style.

Big Brother To Watch
32 Vicious Cycle Races

Got a bicycle? Want to race?
Maybe even win a $450 Raleigh
Professional racing bike and
help a lot of fatherless boys at
the same time?

It’s all happening Saturday,
Oct. 27, when bicycle en-
thusiasts from throughout the
Carolinas converge on the
Charlotte Motor Speedway for
the first annual Big Brothers
Pedal Power Classic.

a = m >» ~

Ente

Gr >< > OS ><> >

rtainment

The bike races, 32 of them in
all, will be run from 8 a.m. to5

p.m. at the Speedway.

A $1 admission, proceeds of
which go to assist the work of
the Big Brothers, covers ad-
mission to the races and entry
fee for all BBPPC open events.
(Five of the races are closed to
members of the Amateur
Bicycle League of America. )

Leon Russell's new album,
“Hank,” has his name only on
the shrink-wrap, and he calls
himself Hank Wilson on this
wonderful record.

It is pure unadulterated coun-
try mucis with some of Nash-
ville’s best session men helping
Russell get back to the roots.

Eric Clapton's ‘Rainbow
Concert’’ was eagerly awaited
because of the personnel in-
volved: Steve Winwood. Pete
Townshend. Ron Wood, and

others. It is poorly mixed,
lifeless. and a big disap-
pointment.

Stevie Wonder has been get-
ting very serious on his last few
albums. .

Innervisions,” the latest, is
a beautiful album. with ex-
cellent musicians participating.
The jazz and blues influences
are apparent and Stevie is as
funky as ever.

Chalmers Davidson sports the new fall
Homecoming Scottish Festival.

A LITTLE LEG
line in kilts at

By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Asst. Features Editor
See DS ee ee en

A collection of prints, drawings and paintings by Stephen White is
now on display at the Mint Museum of Art. Best known for his
series of woodcuts portraying the Amish peoples of the midwestern
United States, White concentrates on the depiction of the individual
character and personality. The exhibition will continue until Nov. 1.

Loggins and Messina will be presented in concert Saturday at 8
p.m. at the Charlotte Coliseum. Tickets are available from the
Coliseum box office.

“The Boys in the Band”’ will be staged by the Central Piedmont
Community College Drama Club this Friday and Saturday, and
next Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 8:15 p.m. Mart Crowley's
powerful and moving script examines the confrontation of a group
of homosexuals with a character whom, they believe, refuses to ad-
mit that he once was and still is a homosexual. The New York
Times called the play ‘‘uncomprimising in its honesty .’’ Tickets are
available from the CPCC Drama Office at $2.50 a seat. No advance
reservations will be taken.

Phillippe Cousteau, world renowned oceanographer, will appear
in person at the first of the Charlotte Nature Museum’s Annual
Ecology Program series on Ovens Auditorium on Saturday.
Cousteau will discuss his Antarctic Exploration and will narrate a
preview film of his Television Specia! be aired on ABC, November
29. The film footage recounts the voyage to the Atlantic made by
Fltippe Cousteau his father Jacques Cousteau and the divers of
the Calypso during the Antarctic summer of Dec. 1972 to March
1973. Featured will be underwater shots of unexplored caves and
icebergs.

Tickets are available from Ovens auditorium. The performances
are at3 p.m. and7 p.m.

Barbara Loudine’s one-woman show will continue to be on
display at the Garden Gallery of the Mint Museum until Oct. 28.
Wort:ing primarily in pastels, the artist uses a dreamlike technique
which evokes childhood images, revealing a kinship of feeling with
Redon and Ensor.

“A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum,” the hit
Broadway musical, will be showing at the Pineville Dinner Theatre
until Oct.28. The play with its adaptations of Plautine comedy,
promises to provide an evening of ribald, slapstick enjoyment.
Book is by Burt Shevelove and Larry Gelburt, and music and lyrics
by Stephen Sondheim.

=| i> <> <r | Ss

‘Heavy Traffic’

“Are vou going to Scarborough Fair?
Parsley. sage, rosem ary and thyme.
Remember me to the one who was there:
She once was a true love of mine.”

This wistful tune sets the mood for the new
release at the Visulite Theatre (Elizabeth St. in
Charlotte), ‘‘Heavy Traffic’.

Produced by Steve Krantz, written and
directed by Ralph (‘‘Fritz the Cat’) Bakshi.
‘Heavy Traffic’ is a puzzling movie. Consider
the theme, ‘‘Scarborough Fair’.

A sweet, wistful tune, it is used in conjuction
with the ‘‘hero’ Michael Corleone as he fan-
tisizes about life while being taken to the
cleaners by a pinball machine.

Michael is a naive, virgin cartoonist
struggling to sell his work and escape from his
sordid surroundings. His father, Angie, is a
smalltime hood whose ambition is to break a
dock strike for his ‘‘Godfather."’

Michael's mother, Ida, is a Jewish harpy who
constantly fights Angie for control of Michael.
Completing the cast are Michael’s black
girlfriend, a bunch of greasers whose main
pastime is spilling each others blood, and
assorted freaks, weirdos and crazies.

The film follows Michael's path of lost in-
nocence and eventual death. Fantasy and
reality are confused as animated figures are
superimposed on shots of New York’s low-life.

In his fantasy Michael becomes more and
more a part of this nether-region. Un-
fortunately, (or perhaps fortunately for the
real Michael), he cannot be a true part of this
world.

Angie puts out a “‘contract’’ on him, and he i
em he is

Technically, ‘‘Heavy Traffic’ is-an im-
pressive vehicle for the talents of Bakshi’s
studio. The entire film is subordinated to
technique.

Ted Bemiller's surrealistic cinematography
lends a proper hellish quality to the shots of
New York's lower east side. The NDA offbeat
artwork of Ira Turek, Mark Kausler and Sue
Carey is superb, as is don Ernst’s editing.

Where ‘Heavy Traffic” is in its moral
pretentiousness, Bakshi tries to make a
morality play out of Michael's fantasy, rather
than letting the viewer simply marvel at his
technical achievements. The problem with
Bakshi is that he isn't satisfied with being a
great cartoonist; he wants to be a philosopher
too. He is triumphant in the former, but

reel to reel reviews

By PETER CELANTANO And JOE MCMILLAN

laughable in the latter.

If you liked “Fritz the Cat”, you'll love
‘Heavy Traffic.”

As an exercise in the absurd it is enjoyable
and mildly thought-provoking; as a technical
achievement it is nothing short of remarkable.
There is one warning - this film thoroughly
deserves its “‘X"’ rating. If you're not offended
by some part of ‘‘Heavy Traffic’’, it’s possible
you can't be offended.

By PETER CELANTANO

‘hid Blue’

In “Kid Blue,’ we have the case of a gifted
cinematographer languishing in the clutches of
a brutal director

When Billy Williams photographed Ken
Russell's “Women in Love,’ he was working
under a visually exciting director, and the
results are memorable if uneven.

The director of ‘Kid Blue” is a villain by the
name of James Frawley.

In this film, much of William's
cinematography is the worst I’ve ever seen
(he also did “Sunday, Bloody Sunday”),
especially the outdoor scenes.

These are generally sunstruck and feature
some of the ugliest skies I have ever seen out-
side of cigarette advertisements.

The interiors fare somewhat better, and
some moments are wistful reminders of
‘Women in Love’.

William's best work in ‘‘Kid Blue,” which is
largely a repeat of some earlier work in

“Women in Love,” is in the factory interiors,
where he gets to play with dark tones.

_ The only other good thing about ‘‘Kid Blue”’
1S some of the costume designing by Theodora
Von Runkle, who did better work for ‘Bonnie
and Clyde.”’

_ Cinematography and costumes, as elements
in a Movie, are too passive to wake a sleepy
screen.

It’s direction, acting and comic stylization
that are really needed.

But James Frawley directed, which leaves
us nowhere. Peter Boyle, Ben Johnson and
Warren Oates are wasted (1 would like to see
Oates under John Huston’s direction
someday), and the other members of the cast
are generally unspeakable.

As for the comic stylization, I'll admit I
laughed at a couple of scenes, but most are as
bad as everything else in the film.

By JOE MCMILLAN

