AEGREY LIBRARY

Chalmers Books
Cat-Burglars

NOR CODE~GENTLEMEN ONLYp!/

Frugal ‘Snails’ Swarm Europe,

IN

Insensitive To Surroundings

By DAVID HANIG
Contributing Editor

We have all seen that great
stereotype of the American
tourist - the red-faced, pot-
bellied man in a loud Hawaiian
shirt and Bermuda shorts who
has four cameras around his
neck and a loud-mouthed wife
who whines nasally about the
plumbing.

As much as these people
make me cringe, there is un-
fortunately another group of
North Americans whom I con-
sider a greater blight--the
snails. Snails, for the
uninitiated, are back-packers,
so named because all they own
is on their backs.

By ‘‘snails’’ I mean only those
back-packers who are in
Europe for the sole purposes of
drinking some wine, eating
some cheese, and catching
some rays. These activities by
themselves are relatively har-
mless,; but when life centers on
the triad above, the snails

become objectionable.

The most noticeable charac-
teristic of the snail is the speed
and the totality of the develop-
ment of an insensitivity to his
surroundings. .

In Amsterdam, the chief port
of entry into Europe for snails, I
once met a guy from Los
Angeles.

The first thing I heard from
him was ‘“‘Wow, man! I’m in
Europe! I can’t believe it! Oo,
let me get my shit together,
man!”’ Clearly overcome by the
thought of being in Europe and
unaware of the double entendre.

The next day I saw the same
fellow, and I asked how things
were going.

“Well, I meet this dude from
right near where | live in front of
American Express, so I kinda
spent the day talking.”’

“What are you going to do
tonight?’’

“Thought I'd go see ‘Super-
Fly.”

By the time that I left Am-

sterdam, the guy had managed
to tour the Heineken Brewery
twice. He said he wanted to go
to some big art museum (he
meant the Rijksmuseum), but
you had to pay money and he
wasn’t going to do that.

He ignored the _ Con-
certgebouw where students can
attend some of the best sym-
phony concerts in Europe for 40
cents. He had only been around
North Americans.

Lacking the willingness to
spend money on the beaux artes
and the ability to speak the local
language, the snails congregate
together, usually in front of
American Express.

In short the snails do nothing
which would not be done as well
or better on the North American
continent.

The snail seems to be a per-
son who is going nowhere and
does not seem to know it. That is
what I find most disturbing
about him.

Zhe Davidsonian October 5, 1973 Five

"FACULTY GUEST COLUMN
New Spirit Hinders
Ancient Animosities

By CHARLES E. LLOYD
Professor of English

Bitter constraint and sad occasion have wrung this cry from my
heart. It is a stern warning of woes to come, and the faint-hearted
should seek immediately, perhaps on the editorial page, matter
meet for less morose delectation.

In 17 years (I came here that long ago, as haruspex junior grade
and assistant crumudgeon) I have seen many and multifarious
changes and innovations, most of them, if not quite all, very much
for the worse.

I used rather to enjoy the spectacle of Davidson's stately
progress to perdition, but this year’s shocking acceleration of the
tempo has turned spectacle into nightmare, and I must now warn
all who will i:sten of the ineluctable shipwreck ahead. The dam will
burst, the lid will blow, the earth crack wide; and I offer in eviden-
ce the following signs.

A new spirt among us threatens our ancient loyalties, align-
ments, fragmentations, and animosities. Our fine old mutual
distrust that gave life such zest is crumbling; I have caught
colleagues on the faculty helping students, and yesterday I actually
behold one (wild horses will not drag his name from me) smiling
at an officer of the administration.

As for that body. I suspect every man jack of them is seriously
trying to make Davidson a better place for living and learning.
They seem to have lost their trencher fury for red tape and
chinoiserie, and I sometimes think they're about to declare an ar-
misticeinthe paper war. It is even worse with the young, who betray
symptoms of serious disorientation. Some of my own pupils are
not only studying, but enjoying it; they are not bucking for grades,
but taking a perverted pleasure in work itself. Their extra-
curicular activities include many such disgustingly altruistic and
downright wholesome pursuits as STEP, PIRG, meditation, and
non-subsidized athletics.

And the very worst are the blacks and the women. When we in-
tegrated, I had cheerful hopes of some rare old melodrama, but the
blacks have dashed them every one. Instead of coming on like
militants or Toms --- surely sufficiently divirgent alternatives for
the discriminating - they insist on behaving like themselves, and at
an untold costin the amusement afforded by discord and strife.

The young women are unspeakable. Their charms of person and
manner are such that I can no longer savor the surly gnawing of an
atrabilious stomach, and I reach home daily less eager to kick the
cat and beat my wife. Not only are they prettier, nicer, and
sweeter-smelling than we males; some of them are smarter. Sim-
pliciter non fit, as Prof. Screwtape put it in his Enchiridion Militis
Damnati.

If it gets any worse, I'll have to face the sad fact that somebody is
probably praying.

Ichabod! Eheu! fugace ... but my warning: Davidson bids fair
soon to be inundated by floods of good will, industry, courage, hor-
se-sense, courtesy, and fun. Life will never be the same, and this
curmudgeon is looking for a sabbatical at the United Nations. I
think I can get my old job back: international spy and soda-skeet.

Meanwhile, the devil and I are mighty worried.

Stephenson Improves Work Benefits

It is extremely easy to criticise the
faculty and administration of this
college. A colleague of mine and
sometimes-columnist showed this in
last month’s DAVIDSONIAN.

Time and effort are involved in fin-
ding out the facts on issues and making
a fair appraisal of administrative ef-
forts. One such effort which has been
moderately successful is that of Direc-
tor of Personnel Robert J. Stephenson.

Stephenson and his colleagues in the
administration have been concerned
with making working conditions better
for secretaries and buildings and
grounds people.

Several limiting factors must be
recognised. The staff is admittedly
receiving salaries that could easily be
surpassed by a job with Reeves
Brothers just down the road.

There is only one way to increase
these salaries - increase the budget.
Students could pay more money or
alumni could pay more money. But as it
stands now the salaries simply cannot
be increased without cutting some

college programs.
So, what has Stephenson done?
Benefits have been’ enhanced

remarkably since he’s been here.
There are minor benefits and major
ones. The minor benefits support the
family atmosphere of the college,
which in recent years has not fared
well. Every staff member is entitled to
free tickets to Davidson home athletic
events.

Davidson, being a family school,
gives any hourly employee with one

year of service three days with pay at
time of marriage. A total of three days
with pay may be taken at the time of
death of any member of the hourly em-
ployee’s immediate family. An em-
ployee’s family is provided with an
amount from three times annual ear-
nings at age 35 to one-half annual ear-
nings at age 65 and over, in the case of
the employee's death. The college pays
the entire premium.

The responsibility for other insurance
is divided between the college and the
individual employee. The college pays
approximately 55 percent of the
premium on health insurance. The
secretaries and building and grounds
people are covered under Blue Cross
and Blue Shield.

An employee entering the hospital
will have his semi-private room paid
for in full. Intensive care, drugs,
EKG’s, EEG's and other tests and nec-
cessities (such as food) are paid for
completely.

The hourly employee has sick leave
amounting to one day for each month of
service. Doctor's charges, in addition,
are paid for while the person is
hospitalised.

The administrative staff is also
covered under a major medical ex-
pense plan under the Teachers In-
surance and Annuity Association
(TIAA). This provides up to $50,000
depending upon how much has been
used in the past.

Secretaries have a total disability
benefits plan under the TIAA. The total
disability provides for total payment of
60 percent of the monthly salary when
combined with social security benefits.

TIAA total disability pays the
premium to the retirement plan that
was begun by Davidson. The
retirement annuity is handled by either
TIAA or College Retirement Equities
Fund (CREF) or a combination depen-
ding upon the choice of the individual
employee. The college pays the total
premium amounting to 10 percent of the
annual salary. These plans begin after
not more than five years of service to
Davidson and attainment of the age of
30. Faculty and administrative staff
(including secretaries) are covered un-
der one of these plans which sup-
plements social security benefits.

All employees are given 10 days of
paid holidays during the year and, after
one year of service, two weeks of paid
vacation. The vacation policy is quite
liberal since most factories give three
days of vacation for every year of ser-

vice up to a maximum of two or three ©

weeks.

The other major benefit in working
for most colleges and universities in-
cluding Davidson is the tuition break.
Any dependent of any employee that is
accepted at Davidson can attend with
free tuition. This policy could be better,
however.

The free tuition is not used ex-
tensively because many of the em-
ployees children have not had the op-

portunity to receive an adequate secon-
dary education for admission to David-
son. While faculty and administration
children can receive as much as $1400
per year to pay for tuition to other in-
stitutions, this policy does not exist for
other employees.

But again, where is the money to
come from?

Employees themselves are given the
opportunity to attend Davidson classes,
one per term, free of tuition. Ms. Susie
Summers in the College Union is taking
a course this term under this program.
She is enjoying the opportunity of fur-
thering her education, which otherwise
would be impossible.

The college, additionally, subsidizes
the mortgage loans of some employees.
Buildings and grounds people have en-
joyed this program. The interest rate is
lowered considerably. One employee is
paying 41% percent interest on his loan.

There are problems with the per-
sonnel benefit and salary policy. The
buildings and grounds people are not
covered under TIAA or CREF so they
cue aadies san ility or retirement

. Salaries are lower than
should be. wed

But we sincerely believe that
Stephenson and his staff have
alleviated many of the problems of the
employees since his appointment. If he
continues to make the progress that he
has made in the past, Davidson College
will be a good employer no matter what
job is Considered.
