Spotty Shooting Plagues Cats

AN ANALYSIS |

By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

When Christmas vacation began many David-
son students were pleased with the basketball
team's progress. The Cat's record of 3-0 and
their easy victory over East Carolina made fans
optimistic.

Then the roof fell in on the team as they took
the road.

At Princeton, poor defense and_ shooting
enabled the Tigers to build a 46-32 halftime lead.
Davidson sputtered early in the second half and
fell behind by as much as 22 points.

From that point, the Cats started a great
comeback surge led by Larry Horowitz and T. J.
Pecorak that brought the team within four with
eight minutes remaining.

The game was played even from then on and
the first loss of the season occurred, 82-78.

John Falconi and T. J. Pecorak led the Cats
with 22 and 17 points respectively. As a team, the
field goal percentage was the lowest of the year
at 37 percent.

Despite beating Richmond, the team played
one of its poorest floor games of the season there.
The defense was sluggish and the ball handling
inadequate. Eighteen turnovers were committed.

If it were not for the team's shooting (67.9 per-
cent) from the floor and the quality of the op-
ponents, Davidson would have dropped its
second in a row. The game ended up 88-80.

Balanced scoring was led by Falconi and Paul
Wagner, who came off the bench, for 16 points.

The next trip for the Cats was to Cincinnati to
play the talented Bearcats. The first half was
played in spurts and Cincinnati led by one at
halftime, 45-44. Cincinnati started off quickly in
the s¢cond half and pulled ahead 59-50.

As close as the Cats could come after that was
three points on several occasions. The game en-
ded up 95-84.

Davidson's second half performance was
marred by poor shooting (37.2 percent) and 12

turnovers. Dunn led the Wildcats in his home
stage by hitting seven of nine field goal attempts
and coming up with 20 points. T. J. Pecorak and
Falconi hit 19 and 16 respectively.

The next challenge for the Wildcats was one of
the toughest teams in the country, North
Carolina State. Davidson played well and had
cut a Wolfpack lead to one point with nine
minutes remaining.

State came back and scored the next six points
and did not pull away to their winning margin
of 13 (103-90), until late in the game when the
Cats were forced to foul to try and catch up.

Davidson placed six men in double figures led
by Falconi who made nine of 12 field goal at-
tempts and had 23 points. State's high-scoring
David Thompson was held to his season low of 13
points.

Coming back after a short Christmas break,
the team played in the Charlotte Invitational
Tournament.

In the first game Davidson outplayed St.
Bonaventure to win 83-76 to earn a rematch with
Cincinnati. In the Cincinnati game, Davidson led
34-31 at the half and held on to thafilead to win 66-
63 for probably their biggest win to date.

The Wildcats were led in scoring by T.J.
Pecorak, Falconi and Dunn who all scored in
double figures both nights. Horowitz contributed
13 big points in the championship game.

The Most Valuable Player award went to Cin-
cinnati's Derek Dickey.

William and Mary was Davidson's next op-
ponent and the young Indians gave them quite a
battle in the first half ending with the score 33
all. The Cats broke away in the second half
where they exploded for 69 points and won 102-88.

There were three players who scored over 20
points in the game. Falconi had 26, Dunn had 22
and T. J. Pecorak, who did not miss a shot all
night, had 21 points.

Then St. Johns came to Charlotte after winning
the Holiday Festival in New York. St. John's
star Bill Schaefer proved too much for the Wild-
cats as he scored 33 points including a jumper
with three seconds left to beat the Cats 78-77. The
team had balanced scoring led by Horowitz's 14
points.

Pittsburg was Davidson's next opponent and
after a fast start the Cats faltered and had to
hang on at the end to pull out a 76-73 victory. John
Pecorak broke out of his slump to lead the Wild-
cats in both scoring and rebounding. Pecorak
and Falconi both had 17 points.

The last disastrous trip came last Saturday as
the team played one of its poorest games of the
season at South Carolina. Despite shooting
poorly they were only two points down at half-
time, 40-38.

South Carolina pulled away in the second half
as their full court passes destroyed the Davidson
press. South Carolina eventually won 90-79.

Mike Sorrentino and Paul Wagner provided
the only bright spots in the game, as both con-
tributed a team leading 16 points.

It seems from these games that Davidson has
to shoot well to win. Poor shooting was one of the
— causes in all three of their losses on the
road.

In the home losses, they played well but lost to
two.of the nation’s finest teams.

Overall, the shooting of the team has been fan-
tastic. Before the South Carolina game the Cats
were fourth in the nation in field goal per-
centage.

The upcoming part of the schedule looks less
rugged than the first part, but there still remain
some big challenges including home and home
games with Furman.

She Davidsonian January 19, 1973

Staff photos
by

Pete Goodman and Bill Barnes

CAT CAGE RECORD

Davidson 78, Princeton 82
Davidson 88, Richmond 80

. Davidson 84, Cincinnati 95
Davidson 90, N.C. State 103

CIT:
Davidson 83, Bonaventure 76
Davidson 66, Cincinnati 63

Davidson 102, William & Mary 88

Davidson 77, St. Johns 78
Davidson 76, Pittsburg 73
Davidson 79, South Carolina 90
Davidson 75, Duke 78

Page Nine

