Che BDavidsonian
‘THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE -
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”’

-Marshall McLuhan

_ MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
_, PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager |

Midnight Oil Blockade

While Davidson busied itself with
transplanting the library this sum-
mer, a few items were lost in the shuf-
fle. These need mentioning:

First, what happened to all those
little nooks: and crannies that one
could once seek out for late-night
study? Last spring, college officials
complained that students abused the
all-night study rooms in Chambers
and as a result, they are locked up
tight this fall.

_ The purpose of this action was not
to deny students a refuge for all-night
study. To their credit, officials plan-
ned an all-night oasis that is found in
a corner of the library basement.

But is this provision enough? At the
present time, this room is _ un-
furnished and unuseable. Rooms in
Chambers remain locked. Until the
library is operating at planned
capacity (with a furnished study
room and carrels for students) there
is a pressing need for study space to
be provided in Chambers.

Furthermore, is one large room in
the library going to be enough space
for the multitudes of night owls that
frequent thé campus? Anyone who
tried to find an empty room in Cham-
bers last year knows their heavy use.
If the college reconsiders its decision
on the all-night study rooms in Cham-

ers, there is a definite need for
students to amend the abuses of last
year. The pressing need for such
facilities seems to make this a
reasonable solution.

Another oversight of the move to
the new library is the absence of of-
fice space for the ‘‘Miscellany’’

during the time before the new union

is ready. The Quips and Cranks has
found a temporary place in the old
union. Yet, these accommodations
are cramped at best.

With the alleviation of these few
problems, we may all rest peacefully,
or, if rest is not our privilege, then we
may at least have a place to burn
away the post-midnight oil.

For Your In firmation

No single facility on the Davidson
‘ campus is likely to catch the kind of
flack that students continuously
heave in the direction of our rustic in-
firmary. Most would say, ‘‘Well-
deserved criticism.” But let’s look at
the broader picture.

At least in Davidson the student can
demand admittance and receive it.
Try that in any large, well staffed,
superbly equipped, metropolitan
hospital. Try walking into one of those
without your Blue Cross card, your
Social Security card, etc. You’d be
in for a wait. Or try taking your
severe chest pains to the Mooresville
hospital, where, unless you’re white
with a pocket full of money, you
might as well stay in bed and groan.

Chuck Harmon

2 : ie woe cor oe oe gel

Compromise Excoriates Individual’s I; ntegrity

“Your sil is often a battlefield upon which your reason and your
judgment wage war against your passion and your appetite.”

Don’t misunderstand us. This is not
to be taken as a gloss-over of the
problems of the Davidson Infirmary,
but only to serve as a reminder that
when people are sick, they want ac-
tion fast and that what may seem to
be terrible imperfections in the
system are not so terrible.

The infirmary lacks spate. It’s
equipment is dated. It is noisy, but to
ne knowledge, no one has died there
yet.

By January, 1975, Davidson will
have its new library and a home for
the College Union for the next decade.
Perhaps then money can be allocated
for the infirmary, but be that as it
may, the infirmary still serves the
best breakfast on campus.

Or can we concentrate for
the time being only on our-
selves?

I’m. not very good at
locating ‘“‘The Golden Mean.”’
There is something about the
middle of the road stance, the
word “compromising,” that
offends whatever personal in-
tegrity Iretain.

Nothing seems more point-
less to me than a com-
mitment to ‘‘practicing
moderation in. all Be
Consequently, when the time
comes to order my priorities I
seem to. encounter great dif-
ficulty.

This always becomes. an
issue forme. when each sum-
mer I contemplate the return

to Davidson. At one point 1°

found composing an
absurd piece of verse entitled

“me Te Sy Ody else” in

; --Kahlil Gibran
which the point was to con-
trast experiences of a purely
personal nature with those
events of world-wide im-
portance and to i
their importance relative to
each other.

After a particularly
ridiculous couplet rhyming
‘mutual masturbation’ with
“Presidential resignation” I
discarded the poem but con-
tinued to ponder the contrast.

My question is. whether or
not it is possible for all of us
within the limited en-
vironment of this sleepy little
college town to be concerned
with getting into graduate,
medical, law school etc. an
the rest of humanity at the
same time. ;

Last week Ralph Nader
asked that we arrange our
priorities in concentric cir-
cles. It remains qur decision
as to what occupies the in-
nermost circle. ;

He suggested our outlook to
contain a ‘‘broad perspective
without neglecting the
proximate details.” What the
hell does that mean?

Is our first concern to be the
shortage of housing on cam-
pus, or the failure of every
President in our lifetimes to
meet his own. announced goal
oh dict adequate

ousing for the country’s
and elderly... ates

Can-you afford to ignore the:

national and international
economic néws just as long as

tuition stays within what you

F aculty Guest Column |
Temple Revives

Jefferson Heritage
Professor of History, Directet of Liséucy

The Great Trek from the long-useful Grey “Chamber of
Calter ee ee ie ae
make the summer of 1974 an ever one in the of
Davidson’s history. Two hundred thousand volumes:
mous amounts of

were accomplished with almost clocklike precision. Fuliback
Bae Aber gece th ey i Ewen ts

the time College opened in September every was ini
se the stacks were cleaned of silt, and the were.
vacuumed. All this was accomplished while the ing was
still under on.

cgnstructi:

It was our hope from the beginning that the E.H. Little Li-
brary would be uniquely Davidsonian. We felt that it should be
planned expressly to meet the needs of Davidson College stu-
dents, undergraduates in a liberal arts college based upon qual-
ity education and oriented toward individualized study.

The library should be and inviting, both outside and in.
As a learning center it have ample space-for- private 4
study, a comfortable environment, and t to permit use
of the most advanced audio-visual and electronic devices. The
building, in its design and its location, should have the potential
for future expansion. We feel that these objectives have been ac-

complished, chiefly through the di abilities of the ar-
chikectiaral firm of Clark, Nexsen and Owen of Lynchburg

Virginia, and thé local expertise of Dr. Park and Mr. Grover
The E.H. Little Library, planned for the future, has many
links with the past. The literary societies, which had ok ae
the first libraries at Davidson as early as the 1 are
memorialized with handsome insignia at either end of the
loggia. The Peter Stuart Ney , in handsome brass, or-
naments the entrance lobby. ;

Restrained elegance (which is definitely a part of the David-
son tradition since the administration of Dr. John R. Cum-
mingham) can be found in the Smith Rare Book Room and in the
Davidsoniana Room containing all publications by and about
Davidson alumni. The panelling and shelving were especially
designed for Davidson. ° ‘

Our growing collection of rare items, including two incunabu-
la and a first edition of the monumental “‘Encyclopedie; ou Dic-
tionnaire Raisonne des Sciences, des arts, et des Metiers”’ is
largely the result of the generosity of alumni and other friends of
the Davidson College Library. The alumni collection is, of cour-
Se, unique, consisting of some 1,500 volumes authored by former
students of the College and including all duate
publications, journalistic, literary, social, athletic, and
religious. Nr ‘

Architecturally, the E.H. Little Library is the first building on
the campus to feature both a glass front and a flat roof, in-
dicating its definite 20th century But the design does, at
the same time, preserye the Jeffersonian architectural heritage
of the . The red brick, the limestone trim, the neo-classic
columns, familiar sinée the days of Eu and Phi halls, link the
building with our aesthetic traditions.

Nothing, however, in the interior has been sacrificed for ex-
terior style. It is completely adaptable to the latest
technological and electronic advances. When the time comes for
the tio-up with the Library of Congress by the cathode ray tube
t , the E.H. Little Libraryis ready. -

(or Daddy) consider to be
“reasonable’’ limits?
‘It has been observed and
reported almost ‘tad
nauseum” that while the cam-
pus mood of the 60’s was one of
social reform, in the 70’s a
search for individual
fulfillment dominates.
_ The days of campus_ac-
tivism and all that the decade
promised in terms of change is
gone (well, not everything—we
kept pot and the ‘new
morality” just for the sake of
continuity). —

Just when the rest of society
recognized college‘students as
responsible adults and gave us
the vote nationwide, we
Haig gilar) ig: edn to
use it (except way our #0:
parents vote, ofcourse). “© ~ ejected from the womb |

Perhaps college is, as some Mother Davi where
have insisted, simply a place garden ends and-
to enjoy oneself while else’s begins. —

preparing to “make a living,”
merely a time for suds, sex
and studies (in that order pre-
ferably) before org dering
any real responsi eet Ee)

After all, ‘‘Watergate does
not bother me. — :

It is at this poii that I wish I
were at Berkely in’68.

But after all this is a highly
individual matter. ‘“veryone

still ‘keep their

Voltaire (and others)
suggested perhaps
best life is a result of
one’s own garden... ;
Perhaps someone can :
me hake oe all

t
