Che Davidsontan

‘THERE 1S ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY 4S LONG 4S THERE
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING. —

-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER. Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Basimess Manager

ee

FOUR

Sell
APRIL 19.1974

After The Polls

What's to become of the Senate
referendum” After all the work spent
in ing and compiling the poll
and the planned resolutions for
changes in the laundry, PE
program, and exam procedures.
who's to say if anyone will listen”

It wasn't too long ago that another
Senate ad hoc committee resolution
was gunned down after a full year of
sweat and diplomacy. So whos to say
that we won't soon have a repeat”

If one looks at the figures tabulated
by the Senate after the referendum. it
is obvious that students will again
soon be pushing for fundamental
changes in the areas focused upon in
that poll. The changes are indicative
in the figures, so let’s not blow it this
time.

We salute the Senate for the work
they did in conducting their poll. We
do wish. however. that the Senate
could manage to provide ballots
without ambiguous questions

For example. the simple addition of
the phrase ‘If you voted for discon-
tinuation of the laundry. do not an-
swer the following questions. would
help make the results of the poll
decipherable and helpful to the
college community

The immunent danger at this point
is a lethal loss of momentum. We urge
the Senate ad hoc committees on the
laundry. PE. and night exams to
conduct further studies thoroughly
and to frame their resolutions quickly

before the sleepy summer months set
in

The Personal Pitch

If the broad picture of career coun-
seling and graduate school placement
seems somewhat dim these days, it
has recently come to our attention
that one Davidson student has
received the sort of assistance in this
regard that the entire college would
do well to take notice of.

Last month, one Davidson pre-
medical senior awoke to the fact that
he would not attend med school this
fall. His case, like that of so may
others, was one of a conscientious
student who, inspite of his sincere in-
tentions and satisfactory academic
record, would not be admitted into
med school in the face of the now-
crushing competition.

He was one of the border-line
students who is so badly in need of
help in career counseling and
graduate school admittance. And if
events had been allowed to run their
course, this student would most likely
yet be out in the cold. This, though,
did not happen.

To make a long story very short, he
will attend med school this fall
because Pre-Medical Advisor James
Fredricksen took the time to travel
to that senior’s state university
medical school to present his case.
Sound unusual? It is, very, but how
unusual should it sound?

While this sort of treatment could
not possibly be expected for every
student at Davidson, one should con-
sider this episode in these respects:

First, it is an extreme example 01
the sort of individual care and at-
tention of which Davidson is capable
if it is willing to put forth theeffort. —

Davidson, as a small school, is
capable of this , and if one will check
the catalogue, the implication is sub-
tle, but nevertheless there, that it
banks heavily on its ability to provide
the personal touches—and these
should certainly include counseling
and placement ‘aid. How else can it

hope to capture prospective students
away from larger. less expensive
schools”?

And second, what Frederickson has
done points out the glaring in-
consistencies in the present ‘‘system
of career and graduate school coun-
seling. If each department and pre-
professional program and the career
office would step just slightly in this
direction, there would be hope for
guidance at Davidson.

Again, no one can expect Davidson
College to make a personal pitch for
every one of its students, but the in-
cident described above sets a stan-
dard for the kind of dedication to
counseling on the students’ behalf
that we should very soon wake up to.

Our praise goes out to Dr.
Frederickson for his concern in this
instance.

Don't Knock Knox

Attention members of the Senior
Class! We would like to take this
space to encourage every one of you
to contribute generously to the Senior
Class Gift fund for this year. Each of
you more than likely knows of the
decision of the gift committee to use
the donated money toward con-
struction of housing facilities for
visiting student teachers at Knox
College in central Jamaica. A lengthy
eden of that is unnecessary

We concur with the Gift Committee
that to build housing for Knox College
which will in turn afford future Da-
vidson students the opportunity of liv-
ing and performing a needed service
in a needy part of the world, would be
the best possible expression at this
point of the ideals that Davidson
College embraces. The gift will be a
blessing for others and a tribute to
Davidson and to yourselves. Dig

‘down into your pockets.

F

Original Sin Taints

American Politicians

By EARNEST F. PATTERSON
Professor of Economics

“B Trade it may help, Society extend. .
P But lures the Pirate, and corruy the Friend.
B It raises Armies in a Nation's aid.
P But bribes a Senate, and the Land s betrayed.
In vain may Heroes fight, and Patriots rave;
If secret Gold sap on from knave to knave.
Once. we confess, beneath the Patriot's clock,
From the cracked bag dropping Guinea spoke,
And jingling down the back-stairs, told the crew,
‘Olid Cato is as great a Rogue as you. .
Biest paper-credit! (banknotes, cash) last and best supply!
That lend Corruption lighter wings to fly!

Alexander Pope

The chances of the current efforts in the United States to
eliminate: or even to reduce, bribery of politicians and corrup-
tion of governmental officials achieving any success are about
equa! to the chances of a snowball in Hell!

Corruption in politics has always been as ‘American as apple
pie The 1892 Platform of the Populist Party stated that

‘corruption dominates the ballot box, the legislature, the
Congress. and touches even the ermine of the bench.

In the 20 vears or So following this statement several persons.
whom Theodore Roosevelt called, ‘‘muckrakers’’ (a name that
Roosevelt got from Bunyan's ‘‘Pilgrim's Progress’). produced
considerable evidence to support the truth of the statement: One
of the ablest and most astute of the ‘‘muckrakers’’ was Lincoln
Steffens and he soon came to see that ‘‘behind every corrupt
politician is a God-fearing business man,”’ (The general veracity
of this statement is reflected in Adlai Stevenson's quip that

Standard Oil has done everything to the Illinois legislature ex-
cept to refine it~

Steffens tried for a number of years to tell the people of the
United States how to eliminate corruption in government. He
went about the country meeting with many groups of liberal
reformers hoping that they would ask him the right question so
that he could reveal the immediate source and cause of the
corruption in government that he was exposing.

Once in Los Angeles he got a chance to do this when, at such a
meeting. an Episcopal bishop asked him: ‘‘What we want to
know is who founded this system, who started it, not only in
San Francisco and Los Angeles, in this or the last generation,
but back. ‘way back. in the beginning.’

Steffens replied: ‘‘Oh...you want to fix the fault at the verystart
of things. Maybe we can. Most people say it was Adam. But
Adam. you remember, he said it was Eve, the woman; she did
it. And Eve said no, not it wasn’t she; it was the serpent. And
that’s where you clergy have stuck ever since. You blame that
serpent. Satan. Now I come and I am trying to show that it was,
it is. the apple.”

Steffens had earlier in the speech, and on many other oc-
casions, identified the ‘‘apple’’ as special privileges, vested in-
terests. Thorstein Veblen defined vested interests as
‘marketable rights to get something for nothing at the cost of
the underlying population’, such things as public utility fran-
chises, corporation charters, tax “loopholes,”’ change in zoning
regulations. etc.. ad infinitum--the only things that a politician
has to sell. As Sir Robert Walpole observed of politicians: **All
those men have their price.’’ Steffens knew that only by
abolishing these special privileges would it be possible to
eliminate corruption in government.

He soon learned that there was little, if any, chance of the
special privileges ever being eliminated because so many per-
sons benefit, directly or indirectly, to some extent from one or
more of the thousands of special privileges.

For those who do not benefit, there is always the possibility,
even if remote, that one can finally get his fair share; therefore
the ‘Guardians of the Vested Interests and Defenders of the
Established Order,’ who earn their keep by creating and main-
taining the special privileges for the few who derive most of the
usufruct therefrom, can easily convince even those persons to
oppose abolishing special privileges.

Obviously, all the special privileges and vested interests have
as their basis a fundamental and ultimate institution, i.e.:
private property. Steffens never made a deep enough social
analysis to discover this fact. Only Karl Marx and Thorstein
Veblen made this kind of analysis.

At the same time that Steffens was looking just beneath the
surface, Veblen was using a ‘‘scalpel so keen, so comical, so
exact that the professors and students nine-tenths of the time
didn't know it was there, and the magnates and the respected
windbags and the applauded loudspeakers never knew it was
there,” to expose the root cause of the malady. That story
merits at least another column.

Entertainment

Yes Virginia, despite the anachronism, there will be an alum-

ni weekend at Davidson i will be
Zack Long endthis “te a weekend. Featured

Davidson Art Professor Herb Jackson will open an exhibit of

new prints and small paintings Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Gallery
501 of the Mint Museum of Art, ate his t
thefourelentents °° =" ~— che Mt ——*
