Ser 3. Siete

New Athletic Policy — Guidelines

Part 1: General

in October the Beard of Trustees made a policy
Statememt on athietics and phvsical edecation.
What is the basic thrust of this policy?

The basic thrust is that Davidson xs strongly com-
mutted to the importance of intercollegiate and m-
tramural sports and to physica] education as essen-
ual elements in the life of the college In < nutshell
the Trustee action provides for

2 Natoma! level basketball with < devermmed
20a! of Top-20 performance

b A realsstic successful. and jess costly foot-
ball progam

c An upgrading of the other sports and

Cc A strong program of physica’ educaton
intramural and club sports
The major change seems to be im the football
program. What are the basic reasems for the
change°

In football. Davidson teams have always had an
up-hill struggie As @ small liberal arts college with
an excellent reputation. the competitive situaten in
the Southern Conference has always been
inequitable

It 1s @ great credit to the coaches and players that
despite the severe inequitees. they have represented
the college with spirit and with determination Un-
fortunately. it is

Number 1s the critical. decisive word. The num-
ber of men it takes to play the game. the number of

grants required. and the number of dollars to keep

the level at which we have been trying to operate. is
costing between $150,000 and $200,000 per year in
grants alone If we were to move to a fully com-
petitive situation with 100 plavers on scholarship.
the annual cost would be $400,000

The question before us. then. was not the dif-
ference im cost of grants under the old program
‘aaproximately $170,000) and the cost of the new
program based on need (possibly $100.000 to
$120,000) but rather. the difference between the cost

of the old program and a fuily competitive one
which would probably have required twice our
present expenditure To have committed ourselves
to this kind of outlay would have been fiscally
irresponsible

Part 2: Basketball

Does the Trustee action imply that additional
funds will be made available to basketball for
recruiting, ; year when five seniors
must be replaced?

especially this
“HE eu RE a 2 erect
eos ¢ g Wil judoss

— CRO serves
6de2& FE
‘aa ie G dsh To

— Gat fans.

ry

Ss omen sont in

Under current NCAA squad limitations, a
maximum of 18 full grants is the limit, and no more
than 6 mew grants may be awarded in any given
year Even so. recruiting of the type necessary for a
national level basketball team is an expensive
process There is still 2 question mark as to what
comstitutes an adequate recruiting budget

Consequentiy. under the direction of the Athletic
Director and Athienc Director-elect, we wil] work
ths vear on 2 “rule of reason” basis to see what the
job really takes This year’s experience wil) provide
2 base for future budget allocations.

Will we employs another persen in the basketball
program. as we did in the case of Duncan Postma
and Jerry Kroll, to help with recruiting and
coaching”

Most nationally competitive teams have a four-
were very valuable in assisting with the coaching,
recruiting and promotional! efforts of the basketball
team. We are therefore authoizing the employment
of an additiona] staff member for the basketball
program. with the understanding that his duties, as
with the duties of other persons in the Athletic
Department. will be assigned by the Athletic Direc-
tor-elect for the maximum benefit of the entire
program

What can be done to improve the physical
facilities for basketball?

Johnston Gymnasium obviously has its
limitations. Certain improvements such as a new
floor and new backboards can and should be made
in the near future. Last year’s senior class pledged

$10 to y for major acoustical im-
Srewemnents the Cyn ane a aoustical im:
has already begun.

A Field House which would provide multiple
facilities for may sports would be more logical, and
should be put into the priority schedule for desired
college facilities. A campus committee is making
a thorough-going study now of future facilities
needs

An entirely new indoor athletic facility would be

Part 3: Football

How large a coaching staff will we have for the
new feothall program”

As one of his first responsibilities, the Athletic
Director-elect will be asked to make a complete
Study of total staff needs for all sports. On the basis
of this study he will make recommendations as to
the number of personnel in all areas, including the
football program.

What will be the maximum number of players in
the football program beginning in September, 1974?

The number of players is a primary variable in-
fluencing almost every budgetary item. Con-
sequently, a reasonable limit on the total number
“suited up’’ from year to year will provide a contro!
on expenditures. In ining a reasonable num-
ber, the loss of players due to injuries and other fac-
tors must be taken into account. For ie, as
some of the players dropped out of the program and
others were injured this fall, the squad size dropped
to approximately 50 by the end of the season.

A starting number which would produce a mid-
season average of approximately 60 players would
seem to be a reasonable guideline. To a large ex-
tent, this will have to be determined on the basis of
experience under the new program. Wildcat Club

available meeting the obligation to foot-
will also be a deter-

for 1974.

When should the season start and how many
games should be scheduled each season?

It is recommended that the first game be
scheduled for the third week in September. and that
ordinarily a maximum of 9 games be played.

Whoua will we play?
Building a schedule under the new program will
obviously be difficult, especially at first. As a

general rule, we will try in the future to schedule in-
stitutions which meet some if not most of the
following criteria, apace this will not
necessarily be ible in 1974 a
a Comparable academic standing and ob-
ves
aris Ranging in size between 750 ‘all men) and
3,000 (co-ed)
c. Same denominational affiliation
d. Similar financia] support programs
e. Southern Conference members with which
we have a good chance of competing success-
fully

Will we stay in the Southern Conference”

We do not intend to leave the Southern Conference
at the present time

Will there be any improvement of physical
facilities for football?

Facilities generally are adequate. Certain new
items, such as a weight room under the East Stands
for football, physical education, and all other sports
would be desirable. A watering system for the prac-
tice field and the playing field would enable those
facilities to be better maintained

Given our laboratory schedules and the necessity
of night practice, as well as the possibility of more
revenue from night games, a new lighting system
for the playing field would be a substantial help.
However, consideration of new lights will have to be
postponed until after the energy crisis subsides.

Under the old system, need was not a factor in
determining the amount of scholarship aid to be
awarded to the individual. Now that the ameunt
awarded is limited to the individual's need, exactly
how will the system work?

A student who is interested in playing football at
Davidson must complete the regular application for
admission and send all required information to the
Office of Admissions. In addition he should inform
the Head Coach that he wants to play football at
Davidson.

If the student and his parents feel that he may
need financial aid, the parents should complete a
copy of the financial statement of the College
Scholarship Service, mail it to the appropriate of-
fice (Princeton in most cases) and ask that a copy
be sent to the Office of Admissions and Financial
Aid at Davidson.

If the student is accepted bv the Admissions Com-
mittee, and if the financial statement is received in
the Admissions Office, the student will be con-
sidered for all forms of financial aid. If our
evaluation of the financial statement indicates
financial need, an award will be made. At Davidson
most awards are “packages which include
scholarship, loan and job. in varying percentages.

If a student is awarded a financial aid package
and has indicated to the Head Coach that he intends
to play football, the student will be considered by
the coach for a suplementary grant. If he is recom-
mended by the coach, the amount of the sup-
plementary grant will be determined by the coach
up to the total of the loan and/or job previously of-
fered to the student. The grant will replace the j
previously offered to him, and depending on ire
amount of the grant. part or all of the loan
previously offered to him.

For example: John Doe is accepted and our
evaluation of the financial statement indicates
financial need of $2,000. He is offered a ‘* "o
an alumni scholarship of $800, a loan of $700, and a
job of $500. lf the coach decides to recommend a
Supplementary $500 grant, his package would then
become $800 alumni scholarship, $500 sup-
plementary grant, and a $700 loan. If John is an ex-
ceptional football player, his package could become

$800 alumni scho ip and $1,200 ;
grant. Pp supplementary

In addition to grants based on need, Davidson
College also will award a limited number of
honorary $100 grants to student-athletes who make
an outstanding contribution to the team but who
have no financial need at that time.

These awards not only honor the athlete for
contribution he is making to the athletic soaipion.
but also indicate to the student and his parents that
if in the future he needs financial assistance he will
receive special consideration for a supplementary
oe ees full financial need.

in this sense these honorary grants
paid-up insurance policy to patiee the sncmainehn
