Eight January 18, 1974

‘Ghe Bavidsonian

What can just one private citizen do?

Ralph
urges

you to

Nader
ecome

a Public Citizen

Dear Fellow Citizen:

Imagine that 25 or 30 years ago citizens
concerned about the future quality of life
in America had gotten together to do
something about it.

Suppose they had begun an effective
citizen's campaign to make government

agencies and industry management sensi-

tive and responsive to the needs of the
people. The real needs, of all the people.

Think how much that was already
wrong would have been corrected by now.

Think how much that has gone wron
since then would never have been allowe
to happen.

If the public had acted years ago, we
would long ago have eliminated or mini-
mized the inexcusable pockets of poverty
in our land of plenty; the vile and violent
contaminants that pollute our air and
water; the ravaging of our land by insen-
sitive corporate and government forces;
the sickening, often lethal, chemicals,

ses and dust in many of our factories,
oundries and mines; the unrestrained
power and expenditures of our military
establishment; the inequities in taxation
that takes 20% of workers’ wages while
many with enormous incomes pay little or
nothing.

Our people would not be disenchanted
and disillusioned. And the prevailin
mood in America would not have turne
from confidence and pride and hope to
growing feelings of frustration and out-
rage and hopelessness.

What if we don’t act now?

In another 30 years our population will
have doubled. What if our rampant eco-
nomic “growth” is allowed to continue in-
discriminately— mindless of the public's
hopes and indifferent to their problems?

hat if we continue to do nothing be-
cause we assume that others are taking
care of these problems?

Who is taking care of them?

It is clear that our institutions, public
and private, are not really performing
their regulatory functions. The tend not
to control power democraticall , but to
concentrate it and to serve special interest
groups at the expense of voiceless citizens.

Almost all the organized legal represen-
tation in our country is working to protect
private interests and private wealth.

Who represents the citizen? Only our-
selves. And that is why I urge you, as a
public citizen—a citizen concerned about
your community and your country—to
support Public Citizen.

we do not speak up in the public in-
terest now, if we allow the problems to
multiply, life in America could be intol-
erable. Perhaps impossible.

Citizen Advocates-Citizen Supporters
A Cause for Optimism

We have seen how a few determined
citizens can overcome overwhelming odds
to better their communities. What has
been accomplished so far is not the work
of one person but of more than 30 young
men and women—lawyers, other profes-
sionals and students. If more valiant and
dedicated people were able to work on a
broader scale, think how much more could
be accomplished.

Thousands of graduates of law, medical,
science and engineering schools and other
disciplines want to work long hours, at
minimal wages in the public interest. They
know that our society cannot solve its
problems if all our most highly trained
professionals work for private industry or
government agencies.

If these selfless young people are will-
ing to sacrifice conventional rewards to
pioneer the future, other public spirited
citizens will surely want to make it possi-
ble for them to do so.

Through Public Citizen, we ask con-
cerned students to contribute $5.00 (non-
students are sending $15.00 or more) to
support a lean, hard-working group of
these citizen-advocates.

Through published studies and docu-
mentation, they will help to sharpen pub-
lic awareness of our problems. Public
awareness leads to pub ic action.

Historically, the idealism and energy of
students has been a potent force for
change. We hope to provide a dynamic
vehicle and clear goals for those hopeful
qualities by organizing student supported
public interest groups throughout the
country to work for lasting change
through an orderly, democratic system.

They will represent disadvantaged mi-
nority groups, before the various legal
agencies of state and federal governments.

ey will seek to temper the actions of
large corporations that have acquired
power far out of proportion to their con-
tributions to society. —

In some important way, every major
company touches on the lives of thou-
sands of people— employees, consumers,
retailers, taxpayers and whole communi-
ties. Shouldn't these people have_a voice
about policies that di y and adversely
affect them? Must not a just legal system
accord victims the ability to deter forces
that tend to victimize them?

A way must be found to make a real .
impact on corporate boardrooms— and on
government agencies that often serve as
protectors, even service arms, of the in-
dustries they are supposed to regulate.

Bureaucrats cannot easily resist the
overwhelming pressures of special inter-
est lobbies in Washington and state
capitals. But there can be a greater coun-
tervailing pressure — the determination of
citizens lobbying for the public interest.

Once a year, as a Public Citizen support-
er, you will receive a report on significant
new citizen involvements that have been
effective in achieving reform or relief at
the local, state, or national level. Hope-

’ fully, you will apply them in the areas of

your own commitment to action. Citizen-
ship skills must be continually sharpened
and used if we are to succeed in prevent-
ing or diminishing injustice.

otentially, there are 200 million of us
unable to work full-time for the public in-
terest but with a full-time anxiety about
it. Think how much can be accomplished
if enough private citizens become public
citizens.

Please mail the coupon and your check
for $5 or more to help Public Citizen con-
tinue and expand the work that is already
under way.

Let it not be said by a future, forlorn
generation that we wasted and lost our
great potential because our despair was
so deep we didn't even try, or because
each of us thought someone else was
worrying about our problems.

Sincerely,

(agp ba

Public Citizen, Inc.
P.O. Box 19404, Washington, D.C. 20036

I am a Public Citizen. Enclosed is my
Student contribution of $5.00.
Non-student contribution of $15.00.
Additional contribution of $ .

Please don't waste any of it sending me a

thank-you letter, a membership card or

literature. I know what’s wrong. What I

want is to see something done about it.

Name
Address
City
State Zip
Please make check payable to:

Public Citizen, Inc.

