The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE’
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”

e . ¢ :

-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
_ PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

DECEMBER 13, 1974

Once again it is time tor the student
body to go to the polls to elect its.
student leaders. This year the
prospect for a solid slate of respon-

ible leaders seems unusually bright.

Those students running for offices of .

the Senate and the _ various
publications all possess the ex-
perience and interest to serve their
duties well. In: this light, we en-
courage the student body to consideer
earefully the fine points of each can-
didate’s platform and hence exercise
responsible control over the com-
plexion of student government and
leadership over the next year.

At this point the student body needs
desperately new and vigorous leader-

ship. Consideration of the stated ob-—

jectives of the candidates for SGA
President reflect some of the sad
truths of the circumstances of the.
student body.

Both candidates point to the disin-
tegration of student unity and the
need to rectify this: They are so rigr*
In fact, the real problem is not stric-
tly disunity, but rather apathy. This is
the numbing problem that new
student leaders must deal with first if.
anything constructive is to be ac-
complished. The sad fact is that
students don’t seem to be concerned
with issues like they once were.

_ Consider the Spring Term. course
Fregistration situation. Students this
year are expected to register for:
spring classes before the end of win-
ter drop period. The academic merit
of this procedure is _ highly
questionable and the senate should
take.it upon itself to see that this is not
repeated in the future. But how can.
the senate make a case for change if
the student body could care less as its

Lali To The Ealior

Who Cares About Apathy?

junction - with

- within the context of this body to

silence regarding this seems to in-
dicate. Certainly, it can’t.

_ Consider also the recent edict that
students will be denied the choicest
seats at. basketball games in favor of
alumni. Admitedly this is somewhat
inconsequential, but the fact that
students have quietly accepted it
points once again to apathy.

Both candidates have also ,em-

~ phasized that the senate should take

steps to exercise student perrogatives
and influences. How right they are.
and the opportunities for this are
many. An excellent channel for this is
cooperation with the student
publications, especially in con-
the Student
Publications Board. This group has of
late acquired new teeth to insure the

quality and integrity of each student}-

publication and the senate can work

locate effective vehicles ‘for its
programs. One other focus of
student influence that has largely |
been ignored this year is the group of |
student departmental advisory coun-
cils that were established last year to
facilitate student reaction and com-|
ment regarding each academic
department. These groups should be
resurrected.

In short, student government has
its work cut out for it in the next year..
But the opportunities and needs for
effective leadership exist. ‘One can-
didate has said that a strong
precedent of student involvement
must be set. Let us hope that such
precedents, unlike those of the.
past, will be constructive, significant
andheeded. — 5

Walker Expresses Concerns

Over Miscellany Leadership

To the Editor:

Dabbling in politics seems  Gulledge.

to be my duty these days. This Ernest and Wayne work The Miscellany needs to
letter is a speccific political with me on The Miscellany at continue to tap national
gesture on behalf of The present. They are well literary activity of merit and

Miscellany staff. It is a plea
for serious examination of the
candidates for editor of The
Miscellany in 1975. It is an en-
dorsement.

There are two groups of can-
didates for this post: Ernest
Glenn and Wayne Gulledge;
Tom Foster and George
Wilson. As a member of the
Publications Board, I have

met with both these slates of —

candidates (except George
Wilson who didn’t show).
From these discussions and

o e'b coe 1 8 OE CMEC SELES Ft 0-0 Ree

qualified in terms of ex-
perience. Their interest and
potential I recommend highly.

Tom and George have not
worked with The Miscellany
before. This is not a damning
lack, but it doesn’t help. ‘The
interest expressed by Tom in
our meeting was appealing.
The potential of his team
troubles me.

What is at stake in the elec- .

tion is the continuation of a
vital literary publication ac-
tively exercising reasonably
demanding literary stan-
dards. I feel that Ernest and

to draw on the best student

Quad Necessitates
Choice Of Evils —

By RANDALLR. KINCAID |
Professor of Economics

ional elections produced precious little
substance on what all politicians seem to to be the prin-
cipal problem facing the U.S.: inflation. A few of the more
enlightened candidates suggested cutting the rate of monetary;

i

The recent

growth; most simply offered the glib solution of cutting govern-
ment spending.
Lower Inflation-Defeat At Polls

“I voted against X million dollars of federal spending;
therefore, I am a fiscal conservative and against inflation;
therefore, elect me.” Such statements by Congressional can-
didates are basically harmless. — : :

This prattle allows the candidate to say something that is
enormously popular with the people; and all can say it, since
even the most spendthrifty liberal in Congress votes against
some spending bill. But these statements have little to do with
the problem of inflation. Balancing the Federal budget would
probably lower the rate of predie by something on the order of
magnitude of one percentage point. :

Why, then, wan tare no sense talked on inflation during the
campaign? I two answers. The first is that the can-
didates do not know what to do about inflation. Now, ignorance
is no crime. It is a crime, however, to claim information when
the candidate has none.

The more likely reason why no candidate offered a serious
proposal for ending inflation is that if he did so, he almost surely
would have been defeated at the polls. Let’s see why. o

eg gee ce tapes Br 02, current in-
flation is in terms of what economist Martin Bronfenbrenner
calls the “uneasy quadrilateral.” Bronfenbrenner maintains
that no society can have all four of the following simultaneously :
1) full employment; 2) stable prices; 3) large economic power
groups; and 4) freedom from controls. 2

One of the four must be sacrificed at any time; it is impossible
to achieve all four. The economy must choose either to have hi
unemployment, a high rate of inflation, the absence of pow
organizations, or wage-price controls.

Examination Of Tradeoff

If a society cannot choose one of the four, it can choose to give
Up some amount of two, three, or four of the fronts rather than a’
great deal of any one of them.

Let us suppose that the U.S. people decide that we cannot
tolerate any more inflation-that we. must have a stable price
level in this country. Therefore, we must give up one, two or
three of the other items in the list.

We can give up full employment by simply running surpluses
in the FeMeral Lidget or by slow monetary growth. But this
means that tens of thousands--even millions—of workers will be’
thrown out on the streets. Obviously, this kind of unemployment
is intolerable.

A second possibility is to break up the powerful groups in the!
country. We would apply the anti-trust laws to all corporations
that control over, say, 20 percent of the sales of their industry ;
we would outlaw industry-wide trade unions; and we would
outlaw professional associations such as the fnedical and bar
associations.

This solution is obviously quite unlikely to be adopted. Large |
economic groups-corporate, labor and professional-shape and |
direct the government through their contributions and
the manpower. they provide to staff the government. These
people are unlikely to destroy the monopoly positions that create
their affluence.

The final alternative on the list of four that we can sacrifice is
freedom from controls. Now, wage-price controls do not work in
competitive industries such as agriculture, textiles and certain
other industries characterized by small firms.

However, they can work reasonably well in industries charac-

. Hence, we as a society are saying that it is easier to live with
one of the four sides of the uneasy quadrilateral, We are unwill-:
ing to have high unemployment, and political reality rules out

writing. I am deeply wary of a economic units.

cavalier approach to literary
judgement.

The Miscellany is a dear
friend of mine. My knowledge
of the faculty staff that an
editor must work with leads
me to my endorsement. I
make the endorsement on
their behalf.

I hope that this is a question
of relatives; and that The
Miscellany will grow under

whatever leadership is chosen

by the student body.
Eric C. Walker 75
Editor, The Miscellany.

oe Inflationary Consequences )
iving with inflation is fraught with dan I certai
groups within our society to me proareasivelt toon the!
aged and the Pherseg sat bapa come immediately to mind. It
n groups in our society to gain enormously at
the expense of others, raising the possibiligy of destructive con
Mr. Ford’s solution to the inflati lem a tly is
to give up a little bit on all four si tadrilat
He opts for a little more maployanant tare

through tight and’

4 surtax. He opts for a little less bby latino ecokeanie
groups by asking f penalties fn beanhinan
And he opts for a tiny bit of controls ry eotiblebiaa s oiat-o
