Che Davidsontan

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”

-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STYKES, Business Manager

FOUR

MARCH 22, 1974

Pressure Valve

A fact of Davidson is academic
nressure. The kind of pressure here
is the sort of centrifugal force that
sends students spinning off from
campus every weekend in search of
relief. The reasons for it are of cour-
se, the graduate study intentions of
most of the student body, the caliber
of the faculty, but more important
the academic calendar.

Each fall. the Davidson student
returns with this to look forward to:
three identical terms of intensive
study, each differing from the others
only in the content of the courses and
not at all in the approach taken
toward the actual instruction. In
short, this makes education at
Davidson a little more painful than it
need be.

The Faculty and Administration
are presently considering alter-
native calendars to the 3-3-3, pos-
sibly to institute one of these in
coming years. Of these, the 4-1-4
system is by far the most attractive.
This could prove to be just the tonic
Davidson needs to breathe some life
into the education it offers.

Under the 3-3-3 system, the
student commonly meets three
classes five times weekly for a
period of ten weeks. What this ac-
complishes is to lighten the work
load of the professors and intensify
the student’s. Each professor com-
monly meets with two classes per
term under the 3-3-3 and most
professors have taught their courses
for years and need only cursory
preparation to teach them.

c

Under the 4-1-4 system, however,
the Davidson student would arrive in
the fall , registered for four courses
that he/she would complete in 14
weeks. After this first term, the
student would be free for one month
to pursue one project for course
credit before beginning the second
14 weeks late in winter.

It goes without saying that this
would do wonders for independent
study and would open up other credit
possibilities, including foreign
travel and study, internships and
research projects that require ac-
cess to facilities not found on this
campus. Whereas now, if a student
wishes to tackle: one of these, he
finds that he/she must make
arrangements to somehow receive 3
course credits to be away from
Davidson for any length of time.

The value of the minimester
should be fully considered. It affords
the student those advantages men-
tioned above, but more important, it
represents a break from the strict
grind. After such a period, the
student would be freshened and
ready to begin the final 14 weeks of
class time. In addition 14 week ter-
ms would allow for a more gradual
absorption of course material, this
is particularly necessary where lab
courses are involved. It’s a fact that
too many Davidson students return
for the Spring term with worn
patience seeking only to somehow
get by the final 10 weeks and collect

' the summer rest.

Unphysical PE

As of the beginning of this term, 36
seniors and over 70 juniors had not
completed the PE requirements for
graduation, Naughty, naughty, so to
help out, Chip Stone has come out of
anonymity to modify the system. In
all seriousness, he might well have
stayed under cover.

In the past, these juniors and
seniors would be able to fulfill their
PE requirements by completing a
series of proficiency tests in the four
individual sports of their choice.
Not any longer.

Beginning next year, students in
this situation will be, forced to take
one of two planned physical
education seminars or enroll in
various activity instruction classes.
This is the solution that’s likely to
create more problems than it solves.
‘' Next year then juniors and seniors

already pushed to complete
academic requirements for
graduation will be saddled with ad-
ditional mandatory classes. Presen-
tly, the most common excuse of the
phys ed delinquents is lack of time.
So does it make sense to further
reduce the time flexibility with

scheduled classes in ‘‘the
psychology of sport and the value of
sport’’?

Also, a _ physical education

nena Re paso be fulfilled
ysical activity, not in the
classroom. A PE seminar is con-
trary to Brass rationale behind the
student dened through sport.
Flexibility is the key. Allow those
students who are willing to attend
the seminars to do so, but retain the
individual sport proficiency tests
and every student will be given the
maximum
his or her PE requirements.

Faculty Guest Column

opportunity to complete

1970’s Emulate Past
Religious Nostalgia

By MAX E. POLLEY
Professor of Religion
Nostalgia is camp. “The Waltons” on TV, ‘The Sting”’ at the

local cinema, The Great Gatsby build-up, and modern art
reflect America’s romance with the past. Overpopulation, en-
vironmental pollution, and thermonuclear war confront us with
such seemingly insoluble problems that we look longingly to the
golden age of the past with its small towns. clean streams, and
friendly gangsters. Baby, it’s cold outside, so it’s back to the
womb. Even Nixon pictures himself as a second Lincoln.

If this is an accurate portrait of modern America, it should not
surprise us that religion also reflects this retreat to the past. In
the 1960's the emphasis in religion was upon social reform.
Students were activists. They wanted to kick the suburban habit
and remake the world. Hand in hand with Eugene McCarthy
they would bring in the messianic age of social equality, justice
and peace.

In the previous decade, when a handful of campus prophets
spoke out for reform. society yawned. But student ranks swelled
in the 60's: they could not be ignored. Society reacted with
violence and riot control. hallowed by the sacred words “law
and order a

In those ancient days, students were criticized for defining
religion on!y in terms of social action. There seemed to be little
emphasis upon the transcendent. The way to be religious was
not to walk into church but to march into Washington. The
deepest religious experiences were to be had in the silent vigils
protesting the Vietnam War

But the mood of the 1970's is different. We now know that our
problems are frightfully complex. They will not be solved sim
ply by Rocky River Projects. civil rights demonstrations. or
peace conferences. Indeed, will they ever be solved? Our society
is experiencing a ‘failure of nerve”’ and the appeal of nostalgia
is our attempt to escape into the comfortable world of the
familiar and the manageable.

Religiously, the 1970's have become the 1950's revisited. The
emphasis is upon individual, personal, emotional religion rather
than social reform. The 1950's were the heyday of the Bills
Graham Crusades. Church membership climbed to 64 percent of
the population, the highest in our nation’s history. The
“American Way of Life’’ was identified with Christianity: to be
an atheist was to be not only anti-religious but also anti-
American.

It was an age when God-Capitalism-Country were regarded as
the Holy Trinity, inseparably united. The high priests of the
nation were Billy Graham and Norman Vincent Peale, and for
good cause. Neither criticized the social ills of the nation; both
offered an individual gospel of salvation defined either as a
future life in heaven or as a present peace of mind on earth.
Eisenhower put ‘under God’’ in our pledge of allegiance, and all
was right with the world.

It is alarming that religiously the 1970's so resemble the
1950's. Billy Graham is still with us, although less prominent sin-
ce Watergate. Everybody seems to be avoiding Nixon. Norman
Vincent Peale is once again a favorite of the White House. Nixon
instituted ‘‘Prayer Breakfasts,’’ an outward show of piety while
we bombed the hell out of Vietnam.

The religious climate among the natives moved from social
reform back to individual religion, this time cast in the form of
the Jesus and the charismatic movements. Both emphasize per-
sonal, private, religion and de-emphasize social reform. Sunday
night Vespers, a hallowed tradition in the 1950's, died in the
1960's, only to be raised again in the 1970's in a new time-slot.

Well, what do I want? The 50’s (and the 70’s are not different)
overemphasized individualism in religion with no real social
message; the 60's made social reform the essence of religion.
Both approaches have their glaring weaknesses.

1 am not trained in the Old Testament for nothing. What we
need is a healthy dose of the prophets who saw religion as em-
bracing the totality of life. They were neither cultic priests sup-
porting the status quo nor social reformers riding white horses.
but men of vision who challenged the society to be obedient to
the rule of God. But their religious vision of what should be both
condemned the present world order and called for a new age.

On careful reflection, it is difficult to find a better formula for
a life style than the words of Micah: ‘‘He has showed you , (
man, what is good; and what does the Lord require of you, but to
do justice, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your

Gus Succop

Bitch Blind

SIGHT
you may wonder SMELL
why
i wink a
lot, if i were half empty
and if you where no one liked me,
do, | I would change and become
don’t look at half full,
me and
because I'll wink giggle when they'd smell
at bull.
you
too
