Che

Vol. LXIII, No. Twenty-Two

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 2803€

HNavinsonrtian

April 12, 1974

By ANDY LAMAS
Senior News Editor

“I do an adequate job in what I do
with career placement, but you
students deserve a lot more,’’ com-
mented Suzie Summers, placement
coordinator at Davidson.

“I've been doing placement and job
interviews for five years and I feel
qualified to say that not enough is
being done,”’ added Summers.

With her many other duties in the
College Union, Summers can only
devote part of her time to her
placement activities.

“We need a full-time professional
with experience and the proper
educational background in counseling
to do this placement job,’’ remarked
Summers.

So far this year 30 companies have
visited the Davidson campus to con-
duct job interviews. Most of the com-
panies represent banks and insurance
firms. Several years ago twice as
| many companies visited the campus.

‘I do not have enough time to even
i solicit visits from companies. All the
| companies that come have just called
the campus, and I arrange the in-
i} terviews,’’ explained Summers.

} Students participate in the
placement service by completing in-
formation which is held in a_ per-
manent resumé file. Thirty-eight
} students are on file at present.

} ‘‘Many more students come by
H quite often to ask for information and
guidance,”’ said Summers.

H ‘‘Quite a few students who come by
j to see me say they are made to feel
‘sub-standard’, and sometimes ‘wor-
thless’, just because they aren't going
on to graduate schools.

‘The entire community should
recognize that these students are just
as important as those who continue
their education, and proper guidance
should be offered to them,”’ remarked
Summers.

College administration officials say
that the placement operation has
declined because more and more
Davidson students are attending
graduate schools.

“As it stands, we do not need
anyone beyond a part-time employee
handling job interviews § and
placement,’’ stated College President
Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

“We are quite confident, however,
that we will receive a federal grant to
hire a professional to aid us in the
placement program,’ added Spencer.

Davidson also offers counseling to
students interested in attending
professional schools for study in
medicine, law, or the ministry.

Despite the talk about a pre-
managerial program, there is not yet
one on campus. —

“There is no pre-managerial
program at Davidson. If resources
are allocated to guide students into
other professional areas, there should
also be a pre-managerial program,”
stated Professor of Economics
Charles Ratliff.

Job Counseling Pipes Sour Notes

He said that many students are not
even aware of jobs in public ad- mittee is not as aggressive in ob-
minstration and foreign affairs. taining admittance for their students

“‘A lot of decisions are made by the 4S the pre-med committee is.
public sector and Davidson students “The pre-law committee never
should be aware of this,’ remarked ™eets with pre-law students, much
Ratliff. less provide practice interviews as
aaa Na a

ih amiallaiaieeiadill

Quite a few students .. . say thev are made to feel ‘sub-

standard’ . . . just because they arent going on to graduate
schools.”

-Suzie Summers

“As it stands, we do not need anyone beyond a part-time em-

ployee handling job interviews and placements. We are quite con-
fident, however, that we will receive a federal grant to hire a
professional to aid us in the placement program.”

-Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

‘cS a a eR AE LIAS

With admittance into law school does the pre-med group.”
becoming more difficult to gain each We are a small school with high
year, the pre-law program has begun academic standards. Pre-med and
to attract criticism. pre-ministerial seem to spread David-

’s reputation throughout th -
“The pre-law program needs to be ying ¥ ragga:

; fe d do th aa
beefed up,” said Will Terry, Dean of -v: don _ shoul e same
Students. erry

Terry stated that the  pre-
Terry commented on the lack of

ministerial committee should be
faith many pre-law students have in lauded for inviting so many ministers
their faculty committee.

and seminary officials to campus.

He stated that the pre-law com-

‘“‘Pre-law should follow this exam-
ple. It is very rare that lawyers are in-
vited on campus. How can students
ever really be sure about law as a
career until they meet with lawyers
who are engaged in all phases of the
law?”

The current chairmen of the three
pre-professional programs are: Win-
fred Minter (pre-law), James
Frederickson (pre-med), and Samuel
Maloney (pre-min).

Director of Student Counseling of-
fice William Hight is a member of
each of the pre-professional staffs.

“My main activities involve ad-
ministering aptitude and vocational
interest tests to sophomores and
seniors,’’ stated Hight.

Hight also teaches four courses
each year.

‘So, I am not even employed full-
time to work only at counseling, and I
am the only professional in the
student Counseling Office,”’ he said.

Hight offered some observations
about student testing.

‘I agree that it would be better to
offer sohpomore testing in the fall
rather than the spring, but with my
course load as a professor and with
the time taken for senior testing,
there’s no way one man can do it all,”’
remarked Hight.

The reason fall sophomore testing
would be more beneficial to students
than spring testing, according to
Hight is that students can use the test
results to help them determine a
major.

‘Lam very hopeful that the federal
grant for counseling wil! come in. It
would aid all of us who work with
counseling,”’ said Hight

Randall R. Kincaid, professor of
Economics and director of extended
studies and career service, and John
D. Kelton, professor of Psychology
and director of the N. C. Fellows also
have the personal contacts and ex-
perience to be of great help to the
Placement Program.

“Smith, Hight, Kincaid and Kelton
have always been willing to help in
every way, but they are just too busy
in other areas to be able to devote a lot
of time to Placement,’’ Summers ex-
plained.

‘What we need is one person whose
sole responsibility is to coordinate the
Program.”

‘‘We’re hopeful that the college soon
will initiate a Placement Program
combining (1) permanent job place-'
ment, (2) graduate school placement,
(3) career service, (4) Co-op educa-
tion, and (5) extended studies pro-
jects serving dual purposes,’’ Sum-
mers said.

While the people now in charge of
these programs are doing excellent
jobs, the fragmentation of the dif-
ferent directors and different offices
work to the detriment of the total
program.

‘‘We are all working hard to make
even our limited program work, but
we can’t be satisfied with what we’re
doing now because we can and should
do so much more,” concluded Sum-
mers.
