“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”

-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager ;

FOUR

OCTOBER 18, 1974

‘Railio Davidson

The Board of Directors of WDAV
has informed us that according to
FCC regulations, it is legal for David-
son College to operate two FM
stations, one with sufficient power to
broadcast into the Charlotte area and
the other intended for campus use.

This is welcome news and focuses on
the most important point of the radio
station controversy.

It is now clear that if the Trustees
approve the 50,000-watt station,
WDAV may continue to operate as

student-run activity. In light of this,
we ert investigation of all
possibilities regarding the high-
powered station. If the engineering
consulting firm finds the new station
to be financially feasible, we urge the
Trustees to seriously consider this op-
tion.

We agree with the WDAV directors
that there is a need for a classical and
educational radio station in Charlot-
te. Through the 50,000-watt station,
Davidson could render a real and ac-
tive service.

Playing Square In Roundball

Basketbaall mania fast «ap-
-proaches. Anticipation of nights of
steaming hysteria in Johnston Gym
grows long as the days: grow short.
The elements of excitement abound:
new faces to check out (though a few
old faces will. be missed), a new court
surface, a new coach (this is a ran-
dom listing no priorities are implied),
and a demanding schedule.
Basketball and Davidson have a
long love affair. A man named Lef
croppet by on his way to the UCLA of
the t his

bemipitig font eelll hangs in the a
S' Oot S air on
wie

The affair has largely been

honorable. Players do hit classes, and

we’ve managed to sustain a level of
competition that we’ve just recently
admitted wouldn’t work on the foot-
ball field.

Yet in the present world of big-time
college sport, temptations abound. N.
C. State had its wrists slapped, and
the Clemson coach has recently been
campused for flying somebody’s
father around in an airplane. We’ve
been clean and honorable as far as
anyone can tell, but we must continue
to be careful and not let what is, after
all just. a sport become a cutthroat

air. —

This reminder is prompted by a
question of ethics placed before this
staff. It seems that the NCAA has
very strong views on when organized
practice may being (1 month before
the season opening). Practice is now
in legal high gear for the Davidson
basketball team.

However, informal practices and
training have been conducted bed
the fall. By the strict letter of the rule,
these sessions can probably be defen-
ded as instigated by the players in-
stead of the coaches. Yet a question
remains whether the spirit of the rule
has been ignored in low gear practice.
With facilities as limited and intimate
as ours, is it possible that any prac-
tice can be informal where two or
more are gathered in the name of the
hoop? -

We’d like to keep our basketball
honorable. While these questions may
appear trifling, they should serve to
sober us in uit of stated values in
intercollegiate athletics, Where
rules are y sidestepped, others
may later be trampled. Such a time
would be sad for Davidson
basketball.

Let’s continue to keep a sport a
sport.

Birth Control Policy

There has been much confusion this
year concerning the infirmary’s
procedure in dealing with the needs
of female students. In particular, this
has centered around the conductance
of pelvic exams and the dis tion
‘of birth control materials. When

- asked to clarify the college’s position,
Will Terry issued the following
statement:

“Davidson College does not wish to
interfere in the physician-patient
relationship. Davidson College
physicians are to prescribe for their
student-patients in the manner they
think appropriate for the health and
well-being of all students. The college
does not believe it should or can in-
terfere in the medical treatment of in-
dividuals. “a

‘‘Procedures for all medical care
will be worked out for the mutual con-
venience of the medical staff and the
students. These procedures should
have as their primary goal the best

medical care which our facilities and
staff are capable of providing.”’

We applaud the college’s quick ac-
tion to resolve this confusion. It will
be between the doctor and the
patient as to if, when, and where such
examinations should be_ given.
Hopefully, any hesitation or un-
certainty of the infirmary personel in
this regard will be eased. Students

can now begin to fully utilize the in-.

firmary’s facilities in what should
always be a carefully considered
aspect of health care. ‘.

7 Gus Succop and Kevin Brode

Law Boards Spark

Remedial Ganglia

SCENE: E.T.S. office Princeton, New Jersey. Lance, 5’9”’,
greasy hair, greets Mel, 4’1”, Marine Corp haircut, wearing
two-day old wingtips. ,
Mel: Well, here we are again. Another fine day to be out
bowling, and we have to be here making up these goddam law
boards. (they both break open their lunch pails) What did the old
lady give you today?

Lance: Meatball sandwiches with sauerkraut, again! Any
suggestions for the opening screw, Mel?

Mel: You bet! I was at Coney Island last night, and I picked up
some bullshit literature on human taste buds. Some article
about the four tastes: salty, sour, bitter, and sweet. Check it out,
see if we can use it.

Lance: Sure, sounds meaningless to me. We-can probably twist
it into a passage or something. Dig this! (Lance pulls a late
volume of the “World Book Encyclopedia” from under his belt)
I was just gettin’ ready to make a BM last night, and we didn’t
have any paper. So, I reached up behind the toilet and grabbed
the ol’ R-S volume off the tank. I figured this would do real fine
and started to rip out a few of the softer pages, when some of this
stuff caught my eye. Read it, it’s good shit. Can’t read a single
goddam sentence and understand it!

Mel: Far out! Just what we been looking for. Maybe better than
last year’s question about homosexual promiscuity in goats.

Lance: Listen to this. ‘Electrical stimulation, septospinually
caudal to sensorimotor cortices, both in pyramidal and
remedial ganglia refraction, juxtaposes residual neural af-
ferences plepto-seismogorphically arranged in alphabetical
oblivion.”

Mel: Man, you look tired after all that. Take a little hit on this
here unit. ;
Lance: Fsssssssssssshhh ...... ahhhhhhhh! Say Mel, you still
holdin’ them hot mags? ;
Mel: Yeah man, but right now we gotta finish this shit so we ca
go bowling. Like my shirt?

Lance: Ugh. Hey, you remember them cases we got from them

South American briefs, think we can spring ’em on the bastards
again this year?

Mel: Yeah, law schools are too crowded now anyway. (Mel
pauses, scratching his head) Wait a minute! I’m not so sure

about those briefs, but I’m willing to make a deal withya. If you
let me put this in, I’ll go for the South American briefs.

Lance: Whatizit?

Mel: I found this written on the wall in the Forty-Second Street
subway station. Listen. “If Y is greater than X, and X is less
than A, A is half a tone greater than W, W is less than B, Q is
almost W, L equals and destroys A and B, what is the relation-
ship of Y to R?’’
Lance: Great, it’s in!
Mel: Aw shux Lance, thanks. Really, I figure it this way: you
and me got these smart-asses under our thumbs, and you know
what we got dontcha?

Mel and Lance: POWER! ~
(Lance and Mel cackle viciously. )

,

I,
4

PRIA Cues AO Wiradrn

IMMeRTALIZED
