Six March 15. 1974

Thr Bavidsonian

MODEL III

policies mm regard to the awardimg of financia aid
and the implementanon of those polices

2 Basic Responsibility The Presiden 1: directly
rsponsible to the Trustees for the formulation and
implementation of admussions polimes. subject to
the provisions herem for Faculty determmation of
the academic qualifications to be applied in the ad-
mussion of students In discharge of this respon-
sibility he 1s empowered to delegate to other ad-
mumstrative officers and Faculty members specific
powers and dunes

3 Advisers Council for Admissions and Fiman-
cial Aid 2 Composition The Advisory Council for
Admissions and Fimancial Aid consists of six
teaching members of the Faculty. three appointed
by the President and three chosed by the Faculty.
pursuat to its By-Laws. and two students designated
in such manner as their By-Laws provide
D Function The Council is advisory to the
President and his delegated administrative officers
in thas aree of responsibility At least three times
each academic vear im the Fall. Winter and
each acadermc vear. im the Fall. Winter and
Spring at times set by the President. the Council
reports and to advise with respect to ongong
operations programs problems. and plans under
consideration in this area Pnror to submussion Dy
the President to the Trustees of any major proposal
in respect of admissions matters the President shall
inform the Council of its substance in time to permit
Its consideration by the Council By majority vote
of the Council a report opposing any s z
aspect of the proposal. with a succinct statement of
supporting reasons. shal] accompany the proposal
when submitted to the Trustees. Any such report
shall reflect the vote by which it was adopted The
President may decline to submit to the Council any
such proposal which in his judgment would violate é
personal or institutiona! confidence. or constitute an
unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, or
jeopardize im a substantial way a fundamental in-
Stitutiona] interest. Upon submission of any such
proposal tothe Trustees. the President shall indicate
whether or not it has ben earlier sbmitted to the

Article VI —

Library

The President is directly responsible to the
Trustees for the formulation of policies for the
operation and development of the library and for
their implementation. including the allotment of
budgeted funds to particular departments and other
units. subject to the provisions herein for the
general responsibility of the Faculty for the plan-
ning and guidance of the selection and use of library
materials. In the discharge of this responsibility the
President is empowered to delegate to other ad-
ministrative officers specific powers and duties.

Article VII
Intercollegiate Athletics

1) Basic Responsibility. The President is directly
responsible to the Trustees for the orderly conduct
of the intercollegiate athletic programs of the
College. He has the powers necessary to discharge
this responsibility, including the powers: 1) to repre-
sent the College in its relations with national and
regional intercollegiate athletic conferences and
associations; 2) to employ, subject to Trustee
approval, a Director of Athletics, coaches and
other personnel necessary to the conduct of the
established program; 3) to supervise the
organization and conduct of the intercollegiate
athletic programs; 4) to provide means of liaison
and consultation between officers and staff mem-
bers of the Athletic Department and the Faculty and
Administraton as they relate to the intercollegiate
athletic programs; 5) to supervise administration
of the fiscal affairs of the intercollegiate athletic
programs within the general fiscal policies of the
College; and 6) to propose policies and programs
for Trustee approval and to implement them. In the
discharge of this responsibility the President is em-

powered to delegate to other administrative officers
specific powers and duties.

(2) Advisery Council on Intercollegiate Athletics.
a) Compesition. The Advisory Council on In-
tercollegiate Athletics consists of the Vice-
President for Academic Affairs, the Vice-President
for Finance ad Development, the Dean of Students,
the Director of Athletics, and three teaching mem-
bers of the Faculty and three students designated in
such manner as their respective By-Laws provide.
b) Funetion. The Council is advisory to the
President in this area of responsibility. At least
three times each academic year, in the Fall, Winter
and Spring at times set by the President, the Coun-
cil meets with the President or his delegated ad-
ministrative officer to receive reports, and to ad-
vise with respect to ongoing operations, programs,
problems and plans under consideraton in this area.
Prior to the submission of any major proposal in-
volving intercollegiate athletic policy to the
Trustees, the President shall inform the Council of
its substance in time to permit its consideration by
the Council. By majority vote of the Council, a
report opposing any substantial aspect of the
proposal. with a succinct statement of supporting
reasons. shal] accompany the proposal when sub-
mitted to the Trustees. Any such report shall
refleet the vote by which it was adopted. The
President may decline to submit to the Council any
such proposal when in his judgement to do so would
violate a personal or institutional confidence, or
constitute an unwaranted invasion of personal
privacy, or jeopardize in a substantial way a fun-
damental institutional interest. Upon submission
of any such proposal! to the Trustees. the President
shall indicate whether or not it has been earlier sub-
mitted to the Council.

Article VIII
Student Conduct

(1) Definition. ‘Student Conduct’ is defined herein
to include both: a) conduct in the use of physical
facilities of the College, and b) conduct in the larger
dimensions of personal behavior.

(2) Responsibility. Responsibility for the main-

conduct in both areas is

(3) Standards of Conduct. a) Physical facility use,
a ee may promulgate
such regulations use of College physical
toatties eutapeents, antter deoaaain eee
and parking on campus as he considers

b) In the larger dimensions of personal behavior
The standards of conduct in the larger dimensions
of personal behavior are those expressed as general
expectations in the Code of Responsibility of 1968, as
amended. (Preamble, Articles I, II, IV and V.)

(4) Procedures and Sanctions to Promote Com-
pliance. a) Regulations on facilities use. It is the
responsibility of the several Residence Hall
Managers to encourage compliance with College
Regulations pertaining to physical facilities use. In
case of known violations the Manager first attempts
to rectify and prevent recurrence by counseling. If
this is ineffective, the Manager has the resonsibility
to file formal complaint under the Code of
Disciplinary Procedure of 1971 for the possible im-
position of sanctions provided therein.

b) Traffic and parking regulations. The President
may promulgate a summary procedure for the
disposition of violations of traffic and parking
regulations. If he does not. violations are deter-
mined and sanctions imposed under the Code of
Disciplinary Procedure of 1971.

c) Code of Responsibility. Violations of the Code of
Responsibility are determined and sanctions im-
posed only in accordance with the provisions of the
Code of Disciplinary Procedure of 1971.

5. Student Conduct Council. a) Composition. The
Student Conduct Council consists of the Dean of
Students; the Coordinator of Student Activities:
eight faculty divisional and at-large members; the
President and Vice President of the Student Gover-
nment Association; the Presidents of the four
Student classes; and two upperclass students who
are not members of the Student Senate, elected at-
large by the Student Body. The Dean of Students is
Chairman of the Council.

b) Function. The Council is advisory to the
President in matters of policy relating to student
conduct and disciplinary procedures. By majority
vote of the Council it may amend substantive
provisions of the Code of Responsibility; provided.
however, that if the President considers any such
amendment to be in contravention of Trustee
policy, he may suspend the operation of the amend-
ment pending review by the Trustees. If the
President does not act to suspend its operation
within ten days following notice to him of the adop-
tion of an amendment by the Council, it shall

€ operative immediatel iration of
the period. sthodemoattocmpaphatpanenetion.t
shall present the Proposed amendment to the
Trustees for action within thirty days after receipt
by the Secretary of the Trustees of notice of the
President's action. If the Trustees do not act within
thirty days following receipt of such notice, the
amendment shall become operative upon expiration
of such period. If the Trustees approve the amend-
ment, it becomes operative immediately.
