Eight October 25, 1974 The Davtdsonian
Vince Rabil 3 3 :
° 6
Artists Supersede E ver- Re ceding vant-Gard
-What is going on in the limited only by the level of his| _ tion of art. with is this condition of in- of the physical and visual power of Custorn and con-
visual arts today? Everything own consciousness and Artists around the worldare creasing freedom in the arts _ realities of his medium and vention. They arelfree to paint
is a close estimate. The artist motivation and by the present} dealing with the many new and the consequences of the techniques which liberate or work with any technique
working today is given the @chievements of science] facets of creativity now freeto unlimited freedom on art and the possibilities of the they devise, [and may
freedom to realize’ all which cy hea technology| be explored in the Twentieth _ its audience. ° medium. — : represent anything in any Way
possibilities of the human prteduces the which} Century. The artist, no matter what Modernists feel that they choose.
creative potential; he is can be utilized in the produc- The recent show of art from he does, is a reflection of the _illusionism was only onesmall Just as frepdom and
Pakistan in Stowe Galleries world and society in which he _ possibility of what could be _ fragmentation bharacterize
revealed artists who were lives. done with color, texture, wet, the trends in sopiety today,
very much a part of theirown : The modernist, by at- hard, fluid, dry, oilandwater- likewise it characterizes what’
culture but who were coming tempting to eliminate and based paints, etc. The moder- is happening in ar}

to grips with the problems
facing artists in America and
in Europe.

Some were working within

examples of realism, moder-
nism, impressionism, and ex-
pressionism in addition to
works executed within more
traditional Pakistani con-
ventions. ;
Likewise, in America and
elsewhere, today’s artist is not

reduce the involvement of his
own person in his work, by
striving to eliminate the
deceptions of illusionism, the

Paul Welch

nist sculptor is free to use any

three dimensional material in

any aesthetically valid way.
The modernist artist thus

Will the arts) eventually
reach such a |degree of
freedom that there will cease
to be activities that can be

conventional outlines and inadequacies of ex- reflects a society that allows _— distinguished as those of
others were attempting toex- pressionism, and the freedom not only in the con- “society,” and of “art”?
plore the material and visual limitations of abstractionism, — tent of art, but in the creative _ .Upon examininy the direc-
possibilities of their respec- is a negative statement about process itself by freeing tions art is taki today: and
tive mediums. existence in a world milieu technique and form _ the implications | of. what is
There was not really one that is becoming increasingly simultaneously. thus said, we are eventually
dominant style in the free from authority. Those artists who continue _led to see that human life by
Show. Each work The modernist is free from to work within the realm of _ its very nature istreative and
‘. showed characteristics of all except his own sincere representation, . whatever aesthetic. While pature is in-
South Asian Culture, butinthe desire to search for aesthetic their style or technique, are deed beautifull modern-
overall exhibition were truth through his exploration not forced to do so out of the —_egocentric-man seems to be

Splitting Hares Avoid

subject to the aythority of one BUM eh panreply. Englishman all the reviewers
dominant style or trend. Con- M anna gh pete Recollection of an* early are comparing to Tolkien.
sequently more things are sectoral ltd fondness for ‘Peter Cotton- They say...”

going’on in art today than I
can attempt to list or describe
here.

This degree of freedom in
the arts is a very recent

I have always been too lazy
to be the first person I know to
look at a new book. When
“Watership Down’’ appeared
on a coffee table this summer,
I knew Mother would answer

tail’’ and his furry friends in-
duced paranoia. I was in'no
mood for jokes. Nevertheless,
the next question was much
less vague. -

Pearls of critical wisdom
followed, unheeded. The mere
mention of my old buddy
J.R.R. had me immersed in
the blurb on the dust jacket of

WHINING AND WAILING phenomenon, and the amount ; “It’s not by Thornton Bur- Richard Adams’ fascinating
The expressive guitar of Larry Coryell is featured at the of freedom is increasing as ™Y. usual voeur, question: —gess, is it? I thought he was — new novel, “Watership
Saturday night Eleventh House Concert at 8 p.m. in Johnston time goes on. In this article What is it about? dead. Down.”

Gymnasium.

the main topic I wish to deal

“‘Rabbits,’”’ came the dead-

“No, silly, it’s by some

Despite a rather nautical-

Se = Ot

i

ee =a reel to reel reviews cal

‘The Music Lovers’

“The: Music Lovers” is a violent film. It wrecks itself
upon the music, acting and direction of Peter~ Ilyich
Tchaikovsky, Glenda Jackson and Ken Russell. It throws
itself upon the rocks and bleeds.

Russell directs every scene as though it were his last.
Climax follows climax, constantly. Nothing fits together;
each climax, each shot, each scene remains separate.
Russell’s frenzied direction, which doesn’t have the
patience to incorporate even itself, cannot begin to in-
corporate such powerful elements as Tchaikovsky’s
music and Jackson’s performance.

The film/careefis-from side to side as first one element
and then another predominates. Occasionally they collide,
and the film comes to jolting stops, until a new element
takes over.

There are times when many things suddenly work
together and, in some of these miraculous moments, the
film has dramatic impacts as powerful as any I have ever
experienced—perhaps they are the most powerful. In
unexpected places, the film explodes with dazzling bursts
and surging energy. The effect is dizzying. It exhausts it-
self :

The film was obviously conceived as being about
Tchaikovsky and ‘“‘the music lovers.” The opening titles
announce as much. The weakness of Richard Cham-
berlain’s Tchaikovsky and the strength of Jackson’s Nina
throw everything out of balance. Any scene without
Jackson tends to become a trial to the patience, and there
are many without her.

Russell seems to have realized the problem while
filming afd to have attempted to remedy it by expanding
her role beyond all logical limits. The film énds with a shot
of her, and she wasn’t even a ‘“‘music lover.” She only
wanted to go to bed with Tchaikovsky.

Most of the other characters go to bed with his music. A
main theme of ‘‘The Music Lovers’’ is the relationship bet-
ween art and sex. In a tone of white hot hysteria, the film
attacks the problem head on, without flinching or
thinking. (I love the way Russell handles content. )

The answers it finds are muddled at best, simplistic at
worst. Perhaps Madame von Meck, Tchaikovsky’s
patroness, speaks for the film when she says, ‘“‘His music
talks of things very few people ever talk of,’’ and when she
writes, ‘“Your music is mysterious, marvelous, curious,
inexplicable. One feels one would like to die experiencing
ata

A few attempts are made to connect Tchaikovsky’s
music with things other than sex—a peaceful family life at

A responder to art makes uses of the same emotions in
responding to art as he does in.experiencing life. A life in
the movie theaters is lived parallel to a life outside the
theaters. In both, one laughs and cries, is elated and
depressed. Among the strongest emotions is the érotic in-
stinct.

The director who harnesses this into the service of his

films Will have something very powerful working for
them. Like many romantic and Gothic artists before him,
Russell fills his art with his sex life. ee

However, in “The Music Lovers,” instead of molding:
his sex life to the needs of his film, Russell throws it in
helter-skelter. Still, he is one of the few directors who
knows how to try, and we must learn to be grateful for —
only moderately gigantic favors. ae

In a way, Nina Tchaikovsky is the consummation of
Jackson’s life work. She spent her childhood in reverent
worship of Bette Davis and Joan Crawford. (Who hasn't?)
She studied ballet until she grew too tall.

She researched the role in the insane asylums of
England, and in the days of her immaturity, rehearsed it
under the brilliant Peter Brooks in ‘‘Marat/Sade.” The
final version was polished under the guidance of Russell,
the best director of formal actresses in the history of
cinema.

The music and acting style of Tchaikovsky and Sarah

Taken as a whole, the film is impotent. But in its parts,
it is one of the most valuable ever made. In other words,
it is a film by Ken Russell. The two statements are in-
terchangeable.

The music, acting and direction are all exhorbitantly his sister’s home and a successful tour as a director, for Bernhar ansa inspiration. Nina is
yomantic, but the similarity is not enough to make them instance~but by and large, the film suggests his music is lace beet i ig ts seakaine more sections of
work together. bier about one thing, a nightmarish sex life. sustained greatness than any of her others.

‘The music fights against the movie with amazing While I don’t find Russell’s philosophizing on the subject In the fantasy , when she wears a bejeweled

ferocity. It seems to know that it must kill or be killed. of sex and art particularly interesting, except insofar as it -

white evening gown (costume designs by the excellent

Eventually, it is vanquished, becoming reduced to the is rather cute and very melodramatic, I would like to ex- : Russell ; actress. Glenda
status of background noise, a mere aid to the moodneeds _pandonmy own feelings concerning thematter,forTthink  Stit/eY re degtrsisl pn diva tyfall That 1s trans.
ofthefilm. —

‘they have a decided application to Russell’s film. To
anyone interested in a refutation of Russell’s views, I
recommend Pauline Kael’s peevish article in the Feb. 8,
1971 issue of ‘‘The New Yorker.’’

cendent acting, direction, photography, make-up and

costume design. oes ‘
“The Music Lovers” is a crude work, but sometimes, it

is not crude at all. By JOE MCMILLAN

Jackson’s performance, on the other hand, is nearly vic
torious. While it doesn’t murder the film, it does manag.
to tear it into further shreds.
