Che Dauidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
Is A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”

-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STYKES, Business Manager

EIGHT

MARCH 15, 1974

Streaking--Something For Everyone

To those of you who smugly an-
ticipated an editorial on streaking,
well, here it is. We bow to the ghosts
of gulleted goldfish and packed phone
booths, and acknowledge the presen-
ce of naked bodies jaunting through
our midst. You get five points for the
prediction; we still have to write the
editorial, and hope you stick with us
past the title.

What to say? Some of us still have
problems (largely conjectural) with
what to say « a naked lady, and now
we have to fight what to Say abvur one.

How's this: Just as the recent
political crisis reveals a dangerous
germ in the moral structure of our
leaders, the recent events uncovered
on our campuses point to a dangerous
infection in the moral fabric of our
future leaders. All pretense to serious
pursuit of virtuous lives has been
shed like the clothing from our backs.

We are shocked to witness the bare
facts of the moral vacuum that occurs
when decency is thrown out the win-
dow. Rome burns, and the devil Bac-
chus reigns.

No.

Perhaps this: A New Age Dawns.
Unhibited sexual freedom has come
to final flower on our blossoming
campuses this spring. We have cast
off the Victorian fetters of our fathers,

celebrate before all our new-found
sexuality. Dick and Jane no longer
shyly snicker behind the shed, but are
freed to prance gloriously through the
tall grasses. Even the President has

to take off his clothes once in a while.
oO.

Or maybe just this: It’s spring, and
we've found a novel way to laugh at
ourselves. And what’s more, we've
unwittingly provided a source of
amusement and diversion to many.
Our parents have something new to
worry about (what would the neigh-
bors think if you had streaked across
the screen behind Walter Cronkite? ).

Professors have a welcome new
source of jokes to try to get classes off
the ground. Even dear Mr. Nixon has
glibly acknowledged the streaks of
gray in his hair.

Think of the benefits: the laundry
may begin to save a little money, and
the campus cops no longer have to
burn up the Fuzz Buggy’s gas. Now
they can gather together, get to know
each other better, and wait for some
real action. Those who were a little
hot in their rooms can cool off, and
books can be avoided at bit longer.

Streaking has something for
everyone. Those with gall can prove
it, and those with curiosity can pur-
sue it. Those who were convinced that
all their fellow students were insane
can glory in their convictions, and
Stay in the library. Newsmagazines
can fill a few more pages, and editors
can fill a few more lines.

Archie Bunker can curse a new
‘‘flagrancy,’”’ and Meathead has a
new cause to defend. Everyone’s left
happy and laughing, and perhaps
we’ll forget before long.

We hope no one falls down.

Behind The Common Man

Perhaps the flamboyance of Ralph
Nader turns people off. Personalities
often Clash. ,

But the important thing Nader
emphasizes is the protection of the con-
-umer. which could very well be a
sacred right of the American people on
the road to extinction...were it not for
people like him.

Nader's ideology is carried on by NC-
PIRG, an organization of students on
several North Carolina’ campuses
designed to do research into activities
which affect the general public of the
state. These are everyday citizens, like
us, who many times feel the crunch of
the big business rip-off or the polluted
environment.

We salute the PIRG organization for
what they have done and what they are
continuing to do for the common man.
Their intensive work on the costs of
drugs in this area has finally resulted
in the public being made aware of a
tremendous disparity in costs for
prescription drugs.

We especially endorse the group in
their efforts to have a new law enacted
which would reverse the present rule
prohibiting the advertisement of drug
prices in North Carolina. We agree that
only through such a measure could the
equality of drug costs be attained.

But it may be time to move a step
further. This group of concerned and
interested students deserve more sup-
port. both financially and personally.
With additional manpower. they could
expand the already existing organiza-
tion into more areas and become more
comprehensive in their efforts to serve
the public.

We feel that it is time to get behind a
group that is designed to work for
change through the establishment. By
continuing with their basic policy,
which is to obtain the facts first and
then make decisions regarding them,
PIRG can work to make many facets of
society more livable for the average
American.

This also will afford the student an
opportunity to move from the world of
campus isolation into the world of reali-
ty, which is sometimes distorted by
idealistic and biased textbooks. By
making full use of both ends of possible
experience during his education, the
student will be preparing himself for
the “real” world that lies ahead.

But the most important thing is the
opportunity to help society, which is
something that is too beneficial to
neglect.

Faculty Guest Column

Faculty Considers
Passage Of Time

By W. BROWN PATTERSON
Professor of History

On February 15th and 16th, while most Davidson students
were presumably preparing for their forthcoming exams, the
faculty and administration of the college were conferring with
representatives from other colleges on the subject of the
academic calendar. .

The subject may seem dull and a trifle esoteric, but the
scheduling of terms, holidays, and exams has been an issue on
this campus for each of the past three years, and students have
played an important role in revising the calendar on a number of
occasions during this period.

The calendar is likely to continue to be an issue for students
and faculty, moreover, because fundamental educational values
are involved in such questions as how many courses a student
takes in a term, how long the term is, and what is required of
him before he graduates. Students obviously have a large stake
in what eventually becomes policy in this area.

At the conference on February 15-16, the chief alternatives
presented were a 4-1-4 calendar, as used at Goucher College, a 3-
3-3 calendar as used at Earlham College, a closely-structured
year-round calendar as used at Kalamazoo College, and a
loosely-structured year-round calendar as used at Dartmouth
College.

The 4-1-4 calendar allows for a short mid-winter term between
the two semesters. This term may be used for a variety of cour-
ses and programs, including what is done at Davidson in many
Extended Study projects. It is also convenient for short study-
abroad programs.

The chief difficulties of 4-1-4, at least as followed at Goucher,
seem to stem from the fact that many faculty members are un-
able or unwilling to devise courses sufficiently different from
their ordinary offerings to justify the special term, that many
students and faculty members are uncertain about what
academic standards should apply to work during this term, and
that the business office is unable to plan effectively for a term in
which many students are either not enrolled or not in residence.

The 3-3-3 plan followed at Earlham seems very similar to that
now in use at Davidson, except that it allows for greater
flexibility and also avoids a split winter term. The flexibility is
possible because courses can be scheduled to be completed
within a concentrated period during a term, leaving the remain-
der for other courses. An unbroken winter term is achieved, but
only by beginning the second term after Christmas and con-
tinuing the academic year into early June.

The year-round calendar in use at Kalamazoo calls for most
students to study abroad at a given point during their un-
dergraduate years, and specifies which terms are to be used for
career-service and for individual study projects. Only freshmen
enjoy the conventional summer vacation.

This was the first year-round calendar in successful use at a
liberal arts college, but it is now being re-evaluated because of
the apparent reluctance of many prospective students to com-
mit themselves to the college's distinctive requirements.

Dartmouth College, on the other hand, operates a year-round
calendar under the terms of which students have almost com-
plete choice over what terms they are to be in residence. The
only requirement is that they must choose to enroll in one sum-
mer term, which is organized as much as possible along the
lines of the other three terms.

A student normally carries three courses in any one term, in-

cluding the summer. Thirty-three courses are required for
graduation.

(See FACULTY, page 9)

Governance Headlines

The Great MoveL TH

MUDDLE “T H R OuGy

_—_—_ —

St

COVERWANEE 75
“"FE. Cay, yOV
ACKeEe 2

IgusT icve
Seay teg on |
comm trees, .

a. Students ont ‘e i
waat angen ne eta SIGN VP for COMMIT-

b. Voters aT tHe P 7
kRENDUM, OLLS IWacOLLESE REF-

St, Govenwauce Committee +EAPs Sac SrevewTS
Sy | PueveWTS ON GOVERNANCE, 2Ve OF ae
e °

. eg BEFORE @ AFTER Move. Tret GOVERMANCE,
“ 7 . -4. Vastacnalty”

SS

—
