Che

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHATIS HAPPENING.”

GS
er ae oe

-Marshall McLuhan

_ MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief — ape ;

___ PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

FOUR

Ss 27, 1974 '

Trustees’ Power Play

It is possible that in February the
Board of. Trustees of Davidson
College will decide whether to ap-
prove the construction of a 50,000
watt FM station to be run by David-

son College. As a_ professional .

operation, the roles of ‘participation
and direction. by students will. be
greatly changed. Although promises
have been made to assure a_large

student involvement, the question of

educational services for both the
students and the Charlotte area seem
on the periphery. The college is
making its decision on a monetary
rather than educational basis. _

Such a new station will indeed offer
professional training to a select group
of students. There is also a strong
need for educational programming
and a classical station in the Char-
lotte area. Unfortunately, the con-
struction of a new station will possib-
ly necessitate an FCC ruling that the
college may not run two FM stations
in the same community.

’. The alternative to reducing WDAV
to AM carrier current is undesirable.

There will be a resultant loss in
quality of signal and possibly

programming without FCC stan-.
dards. Successful participation by the
students in another carrier current

‘station is by no means assured.

We fear such a new station would
decrease student participation on ei-
ther station: The purely classical,
promotional format of the new station
would:be an alienating one for many
students. piesa ea

Obviously a new station provides
Davidson College with a means ‘to
grapple with UNCC and CPCC for the
attention and money of the Charlotte
community. We support a Davidson
effort to fulfill the educational needs
of this area. Weighing the needs of the
Charlotte community for a classical

‘station against the present forum for

student views is a very difficult task.

Yet the decision -to construct a new
station is not being based on these
questions. Unless the cost is
prohibitive, Davidson College will
decide to create a new FM station.
We feel this is a sadly superficial ap-
proach toward our area’s growth and
fulfillment. We are deeply concerned
that WDAV may die as a vital part of
student life if it is relegated to. a
return to carrier current.

Tenants Of Inhumanity

Legally the college position is solid.
Director of Legal Services of
Mecklenburg County Terry Roche
pointed out that in order to take legal
action, a willing tenant plaintiff had
to be found. However, all of the ten-
ants claimed, ‘The college treats us
real good.’’ Chances of finding a ten-
ant plaintiff range from slim to none.

Furthermore, many of the
problems with these dwellings were
not severe enough to file suit over:
Since the tenants often didn’t report
violations, the college legally is not
bound to repair.

The question is one of a higher
level. Can a Christian institution,
such as Davidson purports to be,
allow such a situation to exist? While
the legal advantage is to the college,
the moral issue remains.

Whether the college chooses to be -

or not, Davidson operates as a lan-
dlord. Not only is there a respon-
sibility to those who pay nominal
rent, but as the Christian owner of the
property lived upon, there has to be
some responsibility to those living on
Ridge Read, Withers Farm and in
Brady’s Alley.

- Bob Currie explained that just this
. week a maintenance man was at one
of the rented homes to
bing. Somehow he didn’t repair or

report the broken gutter downspout.

and armrails on the steps. Is it only
our responsibility to see that toilets
flush?

At one college-owned house, not
, Only, do the toilets not, flush, but the

repair plum-

college has not even seen a respon-
sibility to provide water.

' While Spencer issues policy
statements condemning ‘‘sub-
standard housing,” the situation in
black Davidson is one of exactly that.

" Opens Windows

ByHANSFORDM.EPES
: Professer Of German i ie
Okay, Deaton: in the middle of orientation, you have the nerve
to ask me to write a Faculty Guest Column by midnight of that
evening. Since, like any. other type, I was still wri

‘syllabi (syllabusses?) and trying in the absence of a Wildcat

‘

Handbook to memorize, at least, the names of my freshman ad-
pelle ik rr boas elboe™ advisees, I said,
with my usual politeness, buzz.off. (I probably said something a
bit different from that, but this is afamily newspaper:) . >

I saw Deaton again last Saturday, over at the Ada Jenkins
School. As usual, he appeared to have just told himself a joke
which he was unwilling to share. As usual, he seemed to be
engaged in a project in which he knew what to.do, but was best
at getting others to do it. : :

“Here, sir, knead this putty,” said Deaton. __

“I don’t really need the putty,”\said I, always willing to
off a pun which would embarrass the intelligence of a ten-year-
old. Deaton laughed, and I kneaded the putty, forming it into-
string-like shapes.

Being naturally gifted in discovering what needs to be done, I
took my carefully formed strings to a young black man who was
putting a new window pane into a window. The new pane fit, it
seemed, and I suggested that my putty strings might seal it on
the outside.

In a voice rather akin to that which I use to remind second-
term German students that “ich ist” really isn’t a very apt
phrase, or to remind second year humanities students that
Adam Smith (the REAL Adam Smith) may not be the greatest
thinker of the twentieth century, I was informed that a good seal
required putty inside and out. I left my putty available
for those who knew how to use them. ; :

Meanwhile, Deaton had absented himself to open a second-
floor window. As far as I know, he’s still trying to do it.

I’m glad he’s trying to operi a window, even if he never quite
makes it. I’m glad, because the scene was the repairing of Ada
Jenkins School as a community center—and because a lot of win-
dows needed to be replaced, so that a lot of windows could be
opened. . :

Ada Jenkins School, or community center, or New
Schoolhouse of the Arts, represents the efforts of a lot of people
even me and Deaton-to make a Community where there is none.
It'll take a while. Somewhere else in this issue, I gather, Steve
Canterbury will call the college to task for its callous treatment
of its black employees.

But within the college there are efforts—and they may be the
wrong ones--to try to bring together two communities into one.

In the process, I learned how to fix a broken window. That is
known, to those fond of pentasyllabic words, as ential
learning. To those of us more fond of simple words, it is known
as learning from one another.

I wish I could report that the effort of last Saturday to sign up
every kid in the community for exposure to one of the arts was
successful. It wasn’t. Not every window was fixed either.

\ But I hope a lot more of you will find out where Ada Jenkins
yey is, and will learn how to knead putty—-whether you need to
or not. sd |

The day before he was confronted Because Deaton is still learning how to open a window.
So should we all.

with the facts presented on page 1,
Spencer assured DAVIDSONIAN
reporters, ‘“‘We are by no means a
slum-landlord.”’

It is disturbing to hear statements.
like Currie’s: ‘The college is not
responsibile for people who don’t pay
rent.’ As an institution purporting to
echo the Christian ideals, the college
is poorly served by this attitude. It is
one of neglect and inhumanity to
fellow men, rather than one of charity

and caring.
_Even more disturbing was Spen-
cer’s refusal to set the college policy

as one of favoring the individuals’ |

problems over the nuisance to the
college that these problems cause.

Perhaps. most disturbing of all was
the attitude of the. tenants them-
selves. Looking out through broken
doors and windows, they cautioned,
“‘You’re not going to stir up any trou-
ble now, are you?”

Have these people been so stripped
of basic human dignity that they can
no longer differentiate between good .
and bad trea’ oi

-. The college is responsibile morally.

The issue is clear and simple. The
existing situation is abhorent and
must be corrected immediately...

