Che Bavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE |
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”

-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

FOUR

May 10, 1974

Another Day, Another Dollar

Another year is nearly tucked
away, filed under scrapbook headings
of grade slips, yearbook snapshots,
and stories for the late night crashes
yet to come.

What did we learn? That is the
question one should ask, isn’t it? Af-
ter all, we tell the politely curious
back home and the job interviewers
that we’re students. Continuing our
formal education is, after all, our
basic occupation. Higher education
(some have discovered a pleasant
pun in the term) is more or less our
concern at all times in these four
years that often seem out of time.

This timelessness is more weighty
than the familiar five-minute chronic
lag in Davidson Standard Time.
We've taken a break to sniff out direc-
tions. We assume that we need to
gather together in an academic com-
munity where a year is nine months
and an hour is fifty minutes to ex-
change experience in smelling. To
get a good nose, we try to learn.

And the greatest thing we learn is
how learning comes in so many forms
from so many directions. Plunging in
and out of books, we learn going and
coming. Some learn that there’s a lot
of vital wisdom called to teach that
can be tapped. Some learn how great

a ride it is to take off with minds on
the magic printed carpet page.

Some learn how it takes something
different for learning. People, work,
activity, travel; all beckon. Bide your
time and something different may be
interesting for a change.

In order to collect as many odors as
possible, all our decisions as a com-
munity demand an unswerving at-
tention to learning. We built a library
to learn better. We welcomed women
to improve learning. We debate
whether grades are the measures of
learning. We ask for more chances to
learn doing things with people around
the world. We study ourselves lear-
ning, and try to make it better.

We learn from other people as we
share our ups and downs. Learning to
share is the best learning tool we
grasp. Sharing opinions, experiences,
pains, doubts, and a few quiet hopes,
we break out of shells. The things we
decide to do as we move together
must foster sharing and learning. We
must preserve scents that lead in
many directions, directions of lear-
ning, directions of success, directions
of service, and directions of wonder.
And sadly, two from among us are
now rotting in a Spanish jail.

May we lock onto trails like
bloodhounds.

Faculty Guest Column

Energy Policies Create
Comic Credibility Gap

By HALLAM WALKER
Professor of French
Back in the olden days, my youth, a popular syndicated
feature was Ripley's “Believe It or Not! The premise was that
truth is stranger than fiction but also implied was the idea that

hard fact is not to be argued with. Take it or Neaive
The general view the phenomenal world on which Mr.

Ripley was that of ‘“‘Gee whiz, ain't science won.
derful!”’ He would surely have included in his feature, if he were
still doing it, the shock. that the next 17,000 generations would
be living with our atomic wastes.

ighly dubious iterrs in modern life which various authorities
aig we us are indeed true. We often find ourselves doubting
these ents in the face of contrary evidence. The
result is the credibility gap. A major area in which credibility is
greatly strained is that of energy, its productions, use, and

The phrase ‘‘credibility gap” inevitably brings to mind our
president, sad to say. When the nation’s executive finally got
around to issuing a statement on our energy policy he came out
for self-sufficiency in energy by 1980. —

Acrash program of nuclear energy production is envisaged as
the means of delivering us from dependency upon foreign fuel
supplies, those invidious Arabs and their oil. The scheme entails.
accelerated building of fission plants in large numbers so that
fossil fuc} use can be lessened or at least ted. The
image of an energy-rich, self-sufficient U.S.A. with a bustling
economy is calculated to evoke a good political response, but
when this image is based upon nuclear fission the big credibility
gap appears.

The Atomic Energy Commission recently received a gloomy
report from some of its scientists on the outlook for nuclear fuel
supplies. Fission plants must be fueled with uranium, and the
breeder reactor which makes fuel is not yet a commercial suc-
cess. The to the AEC said that world supplies of uranium
will be in short supply in eight years.

The nation is not rich in atomic fuel ores, so we shall be going
abroad for vital materials. So much for the notion of self-
sufficiency . If the government's plan called for a crash program
to promote other energy sources, we could give more credence
to the plan.

The whole matter of the wisdom of proliferating fission plants
is very much in doubt. The AEC has the avowed purpose of
creating atomic power facilities, while being empowered to pass
on the safety and lecensing of the plants. No plant has ever been
denied a license to date, despite a record of 850 accidents to 40
reactors in 18 months.

This is a record not widely publicized but uncovered by Ralpk
Nader. The chairman of the AEC makes public statements that
any numcear accident would be no worse than an airliner crash

(See ENERGY, page 5)

Criminal Confesses Against Faculty

Despite the small student
population at Davidson, the low

Hearing Committee, should they
learn of my treachery, would

have to do this week, you'd run out of
here faster than Dante ran out of

down for the 13th of the month.”’

student to faculty ratio, and the
unlimited office hours professors keep
in the hopes that students will come
by for a little chat, most Davidson
students find that they relate to their
professors in only one way-that is,
with a desk, a lectern, a term paper
topic, or a graded review between
those who would gladly teach and
those who would gladly learn.

In these instances, the student is
always at the disadvantage. The
student owes the professor a term
paper or an explanation for learning
only 42 percent of the material on the
last review.

At the risk of tearing down one of
the foundations of liberal arts
education at Davidson, I have decided
na ecm Bic ace

2 ve gra ac-
cepted the invitation to write a faculty
guest column for THE DAVID-
SONIAN during the year.

Admittedly, in getting professors to
write faculty guest columns, I am
guilty of gross acts of immortality in
performing the duties of my office.

Don’t get me wrong. I have seldom

vf he cecamer
spouse or dog, =
co, or to reveal the story
behind the “D” he got in un-
dergraduate school. I’m saving all
that for next year.

However, I have no doubts that the

unanimously vote to expel me from
school in an angry act of righteous in-
dignation.

But now I must confess, and I hope
that no faculty member reads this or
remembers it next year when I begin

At the ten o’clock hour, I begin my
treacherous deeds, stealthily stalking
through Chambers, trying to find a
professor in his office. After 30
minutes or searching, I invariably
find one. I timidly knock on the door,
put my best foot forward, wear my
winning smile of confidence, keep my
eye on the ball, and my nose to the
grindstone, and pay particular at-
tention not to pick my nose.

In my awe and humility, I introduce
myself, trying to relate to the
professor as a person rather than as a
grade object. I make the first move to
break the ice, meeting the professor
on his level of intellect and

tion.

“Gee whiz! You've got a lot of books
in here,” I say, trying to sound like
Norman Mailer.

After further developing that kind
of personal rapport with the professor
I manage to sputter, ‘‘Say, you don’t
suppose, I mean, well, you know,
could you write a faculty guest

column for THE DAVIDSONIAN this...

week?”
‘Son, if you knew how much work I

hell.”’

I take my handkerchief out of my
suit pocket and wipe the moisture
from my eyes. It’s not every day that I
go through the emotional upheaval of
having a professor call me ‘son.’

“I'd like to do one, but I’ve got a full
course load this quarter, and you
know what that means. I'll have to
spend about eight hours a day
working on my two 50 minute lec-
tures.’’

“ “Golly, you mean to tell me you
rewrite your lectures every year?” I
say, unable to hide my respect.

“No, but it usually takes me that
long to figure out where I've filed the
thing I've been reading for the past 20
years.

“Then I've got to prepare a new
humanities lecture in this six weeks,
and on top of that, I’ve got to walk all
the way down to the end of the hall to
catch the elevator to the first floor to
talk to Dr. Bevan about my next sab-
batical.”’

“Gosh, I don’t see how you manage
to do it all,” Istammer.

“Yes, as you see, I don't have a free
— until two months from Mon-

y.”

“Fine,” I say, quickly taking out
my little red Davidson College alenda
writing in the professor’s name for a
date two months away. “I'll put you

“‘Why, you've tricked me, you lit-
tle,”’ the professor angrily accuses,
wondering whether to go ahead and
utter the profanity or be guilty of
using an incomplete sentence,‘‘you
Republican!"’ he shouts, obviously
having resorted to his first alter-
native.

Having grabbed my little calendar
from my hands, he exclaims, ‘‘You’ve
already got someone to write this
week, and for the next eight weeks
too. I see I’ve fallen right into your
clever trap.”

“Aw, shucks, it wasn’t that clever,”
I say, obviously flattered.

“Look, you won't tell anyone else
about this, that I couldn’t think up any
more excuses not to write one, will
you now,” he says with a big smile, of-

immgmoapinecteenty:
“‘Nope. Nope. nope. nope,”’ I say,
chewing on the caramel.

Two months later I return to Cham-

bers to get the column. I ask one of
those sharply dressed financial wizar-
ds in the big offices right inside the
doors how to get to the second floor.

“Why, it’s right up those steps
there, sonny,” he says with a heavy
midwestern accent. ‘‘Anything else?”

“Nope, ’’ I say, giving him a quar-
ter, not waiting to watch him bite into
it with beaver-like teeth.

Equipped with my pillow and a hook

(See CRIMINAL, page 5)
