Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
iS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”

-Marshall McLuhan
MIKE TANNER, Editer-in-Chief
PHIL STIKES, Business Manager
FOUR Y 18, 1974

Looking over our shoulder in 1964.
the Visiting Committee showed us
several things we hadn't seen. It
called attention to the problems of
mitment which remains a dilemma
tony. The touchy problem of
athletic ips was poi to,
and we have aime siant spent auumtion,
hours wrestling with a solution. The
major recommendation of the Com-
mittee reinforced the college's
Study, and called for a major 10-
year program of library develop-

Committee made its sharpest
college to look not only at what we
had. but to examine “the basic

estates that
were aes for communicative
purposes his vacations at the ex-
pense of millions of tax dollars.

The man’s lifestyle rivals that of
an oriental potentate and as such
sets a poor example for the
American people in a time of
exhausting resources. Look
elsewhere from Watergate before so
completely whitewashing him.

FACULTY GUEST COLUMN
Infallibus Divides
Efficacious Word

yer semen——v-enearenad
Professor of Philesephy ;

While perusing some of my favorite works on semantic-
syntactical rules for the production of metaphors in Paraguayan
rain forest cultures, 1 came upon the following story depicting
events that took place over two thousand years ago. Aware that
my discovery might rival the recovery of Aristotle's works by
Averroes and Avicenna, | spent night and day translating and
have rushed into print in the belief that since so many of my
earlier publications have been so cruelly neglected, this one
might at last save my reputation from complete extinction .

Now some notes of explanation for the eversuffering i reader .
first I do not know what this means, yet it is mot utterly
meaningless for like the works of the great Wittgenstein, youcan
pretty well read in any meaning you want just so long as you
Justify it with the usual high standards of philosophical analysis
that we always demand. The two characters in the dialogue are
Infallibus, a vigorous youth strong of body and dedicated to
from endless hours of is (navel-gazing )_

Infallibus: Oh, how happy I am, what a joy to be alive and to
know that I possess the truth; just think that I, born of a lowly
grower of yams, have become chief of the tribe, the most respec-
ted man in my community. Aspiring upwards, at a very young
age I trained myself daily in running and in spear throwing ; the
running just in case my spear missed the enemy, and the spear
throwing just in case I had my back to the wall, couldn't run, and
couldn’t afford to miss.

And then one day it happened. In the attack upon a fortified
village, facing the enemy's gate, I threw my spear at the leader
of the opposition who was bearing down on me like a thundering
herd of yaks and in my own infallible way, I missed him, but my
wre. 8 mest amnasing thing happaned: Sly sear bit een
Me. a most amazing thi . My spear hi ga t
and split the sign e into two parts parsing the name of the
village. Not only did the parts of the sign fall and kill the man in-
tent upon killing me, but the village was also destroyed since
among efficacious words, things fall apart when the center no
longer holds.

Philosephicus: But my boy, we political philosophers have
assumed for years that one spear was worth a thousand words
and now you have demonstrated just the opposite, that one word
split in half is worth a thousand spears. The next thing I know
you will want to take your spear and split my omphalo into two
parts and what part of speech will I be then?

Infaliibus: Not only did I learn that to divide is to conquer, but
I learned that to change the meanings of common words is to
control. So I hired the best medicine men that spears could
threaten and forced them to alter chaxts to fit my own political
platform. The word backed by a spear am! hawked by a shaman
produced infallibility, hence my name InfahZhus. Meteoric was
my rise to chiefdom. Glory, riches, and votes caaxe my way with
little or no effort. No longer did I have to eat the ‘owly yam:
rather, yak milk and barracuda became my everyday ‘tare. But
even at this pinnacle I feel uneasy for there are ‘about
the village over that sign that I split in half at the enemy vihage.

Philesophicus: Macerated though I am through long year. of
pursuing my profession , | must confess that your story revives a
certain determination in me to discern the nature of you

noticed that some of the tribe were making obscene gestures
Pehind my back after having just prostrated themselves to my
ace.

Several of my shamans killed them instantly for we can brook
nodissent especially since onegesture might be worth a
words and a ‘thousand spears. Walking on further, by way I
can no longer run since that diet of yak milk and barracuda have
added so much weight, I pondered the reason for those gestures.
Then I came to my senses and realized that the were
probably jealous of my rich diet and so to increase the richness
of theirs I raised the price of yams steeply.

Philesophicus: What has been the result of such an intelligent i
move?

proved. By the way, Philosophicus,
Phaloskepis, do you gaze atthe center or the periphery

} @ spear, Infallibus thrust it into the center of
navel and screamed:

Infallibus: Take that you old idiot! Was not m rise to power
the result of dividing a center? How can you concentrate upon
the rim when dividing the center remains the fundamental an-
Swer to all questions? 1 will not grant tenure to any om-

in my village who cannot see the val of dividi
the center even though it leads to . a —

Dying , Philosophicus managed to gasp a final question .

Philosophicus : Infallibus, what did you say the words were
that your spear split in the name of that village?

Infallibus: Those sacred and beautiful words upon which my
power depends were ‘water’ and ‘gate’. ;
