The Davidsonian

“THERE 1S ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”

-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STYKES, Business Manager

FOUR
The Price For Style
Why Paul Rudolph? Of the many

¢
&

has known for well over a year and a
half that it would soon face a housing
shortage select an architect whose
work would surely be out of its price

another architect and another set of
plans, Davidson did practically

What Davidson has done is to waste
a great deal of valuable time toying
with the idea of someday leading a
Rudolph building while its student
numbers have crept upward.

And because we are now no closer
to a Rudolph building than at any
time before. the college talks
primarily of an _ off-campus
townhouse development to ac-
comodate its student surplus. These
living quarters would be built and
operated for profit by a private firm
and would be independent of the
college.

At the moment this seems the best

realistically consider any dormitory
of its own.

Apparently then, Davidson has
three choices in its effort to secure

it can pursue the townhouse
possibility. Second, it can look for a
new architect and think seriously
about a new dormitory of its own. And
third. it can imitiate a fund-raising
drive to finance the Rudolph dorm.

(Implicite in this argument is that a
college owned and operated facility is
preferrable to one managed by a
private building firm. )

But of course these latter two
possibilities involve an intensive
fund-raising campaign, particularly
in the case of the Rudolph plans. Thus
far, the Development office has been
hard at work proposing solutions to
usi , but its actual
———e toward any of these has

negligible. |
The Development Office has said
that its sources are close to dry.
having been tapped in the Little
effort. That’s foolish. It is
doubtful that Davidson has solicited
funds from everyone that it could

Davidson for a new dormitory and in
the case of the Rudolph plans. the
man’s very name should be a real
boom is seeking money from those
who would enjoy their names on one
of his buildings.

It is the job of the Development Of-
fice to find these people. In short, the
quality of the facilities we finally get
will be directly proportional] to the ef-
fort we expend to get them.

Delayed Reformation

of one week.
However, there is no reason for the

committee not having voted on the
a failing grade

implementation must

eee eee eee eee weree

Faculty Guest Column

Rudolph Edifies
Design Complexity

By LARRY L. LIGO
Professor of Art History

ing 1 want to take this opportunity to note two recent
important ts in this regard. The first is a proposal
introduced by President Spencer in a faculty meeting in
January. He suggested that due to the increasing impact of the
arts in the life of Davidson, serious consideration must be given
to expanding our present physical facilities. 1 am very pleased
to hear such a need publicly affirmed.

The second is the decision of the Future Student Housing Com-
mittee to commission Paul Rudolph to design our new dormitory
facilities. Mr. Rudolph is internationally recognized as one of
the leading architects practicing in the United States today. He
was born in Elkton, Kentucky, in 1918. The son of a Methodist
minister. He studied architecture at Alabama Polytechnic In-

Following a hitch in the Navy during WWII, he returned to Har-
vard for his Masters of Architecture Degree, which he received
in 1947.

His architectural gifts were quickly recognized, and in 1954 he
received the ‘‘Outstanding Young Architect's Award” at the Sao
Paulo Bienal ; four years later he was appointed chairman of the
Department of Architecture at Yale University. Later in 1958 he
received the Brunner Prize from the American Academy of Arts
and Letters. a prize which is awarded to the person ‘twho shows
promise of widening the horizons of architecture as an art.”

It is this ability to widen the horizons of architecture as an art
plus his continuing interest in domestic architecture which
makes Rudolph particularly suited to design the future student
housing at Davidson.

When asked by the committee to outline his basic attitudes
toward the problem of student housing, Rudolph said that he
was very impressed by the quality of life which is possible in the
Italian hill-town. The individual family units provide privacy
when that is physiologically and psychologically necessary but
since the contour of the hil] causes the units to be built in such
close proximity, the roof of one unit frequently becomes a
terrace or balcony for its neighbor. Thus personal interaction is
also readily available when psychologically appropriate and a
general feeling of community emerges quite naturally. He
proposed therefore to incorporate the primitive archetype of the
Italian hill-town into his design for student housing at Davidson.

And this is precisely what Rudolph has done. He has designed
a cluster of five or six three-s' units, each capable of housing
approximately 40 students. Balconies in these units provide
common spaces where the inhabitants of adjoining rooms may
congregate, and intimate piazzas make it possible for those
living in one unit to mingle with those of an adjoining one.

Rudolph's attitudes toward architecture as verbalized on
other occasions shed further light upon what he attempts to ac-
complish at Davidson. He has said. ‘‘The complexities of our
time suggest that buildings should not be thought of as complete
within themselves—they should have an open end. and should
change. However, we tend to build boxes and call them buildings

.. you must be able to join one building to another, to make
transitions from one scale to another. and to define the space in
between in various ways and by various heights.”

The buildings Rudolph has designed for Davidson are far from
being ‘‘boxes’’. and since the various units in the cluster will
conform to the contour of the site. the transitional spaces can be
made impressive by exploiting contrasts of height, scale and
changes of level.

‘‘I have always been interested in the specific, and drawing
from it whatever generalizations one might find. The universal

(See RUDOLPH, page 5)

Ss. ; © a Gr

A Mil
Er?

aed v
MAN. VAM/JOD © ~o vee © preg
ses,

&. > ¢ o/ 4 cs
L ~asga7ze> Bay ‘a9u22/) J >» aumrao! a Loup
yea easap ney Mm YY seaty busy (h on

Smpaaos S'Y BUiumoarye S$! erat ‘uollup

Pui us SAT yume ~22Q Au PATO vey oD

DPY Fehr uray me ibys Aimay Lumen (¢

MPem sub

J32q Ayo MP 4MseOp volun » Aum “DBPro”
PUD ,SBIdMH 4° V22Q_ pjod Suajyurad (E
sesvcceost'cl HOD AS. SSPE hey INS OF.

SBSMsny
