Faculty Guest Column

Growing Old

By DOUGLAS HOUCHENS
Professor of Art

Demonism and other aspects of the occult are
. Tom Williams, who taught French here
and now heads that department at East Carolina, is
a mystic. I read from his books on magic when my
family visited his in Montpellier the Christmas of
’70. Tom was resident advisor for the JY A students
and I was halfway through my sabbatical spent in
the Mallorcan village of Deya. Tom mentioned an
unusual technique which is fun to try. Concentrate
on placing your astral body at a given spot. Identify
with it, let it go and you are on your way - back in
‘time or forward, anywhere, with anybody, doing
anything. A way to get going is to keep nudging until
your corporeal contour blurs and the ghost double
slips out and away, and you with it. If you think this
self-hypnosis, so be it. Anyway, letting something
out is better than letting something in which can
make your head swivel 360 degrees.

Deya in the winter, and flanking months, is a
great place to explore the supernatural. Rocky
mountains circle the village and hide the sun except
for an hour a day. I need light for sustained pain-
ting. Hans Hofmann said I couldn’t draw but could
paint. Not this time in Deya. What’s left? Step
walks and interior trips. Down to the cala where the
wind whips water against the cliffs and dirty
seaweed collects on the pebbled beach. Or climbing
the road to Soller we watch the Med dissolve the
horizon. Especially through rain or drizzle sea and
sky become a gray wet wall and the tortured olive
trees are shrouded. Mordor land.

Social life was for our children. Native and
foreign children mingle and play. The adult colony
believes strongly in self-sufficiency and un-
derstatement and each member is proud to be part
of an elite group which chose to settle in this
primitive area. Maggie and I became friends with
some but with others there was mutual disregard.
Twenty years earlier I would have made a place for
us but my selfish reticence is no longer mitigated by
more youthful looks and demeanor. What I am
shows.

Sometimes there was no electricity and at night
candlelight and a small hearth fire would substitute
for the bare bulb hung from the ceiling. By either
light I would go to my films and file cards. There
was no projector and so I used a magnifying glass to
make out the tiny images. If I scanned they would
awkwardly come alike like homunculi. Twenty-
three rolls were brought from the U.S. and had been

juxtapos .

similarities of form, color, light, and movement
than on any logical sequence.’’ But I also wanted the
film to be about me and my interior through
moods that range from disgust and fear to joy, using
images that are by turn grotesque, ambiguous,
lyrical, and stark.

There is a key card for every fifty-foot roll, num-
bered according to when the film was exposed. Each
card also lists the shots in order of occurrence. In
Deya the rolls of film and key cards kept building.
There were many supplementary cards, each
describing a single shot and identified by roll and its

in it. A roll need be scrutinized only once.
I'd check the quality and time of each shot - one
second equals four inches. The shots were fixed in
my brain and shuffling cards could turn up some
images in any combination, and associative states
of being. Sometimes at night thunder would rever-
berate among the close surrounding mountains with
the impact of an artillery barrage. Warm in bed, I'd
ask my double, ‘‘Which way this time?"’

Ross Abrams, an old erst friend who once won a
Guggenheim for work with the color woodcut,
moved to Deya with his family years ago. Ross
reserved for us our century-old house. His bird dog,
Jake, is the same breed as our Spots who was struck
by a snake just before we left for Europe. Distem-
per had almost killed Jake and he had a fine trem-
ble like a lean old dowager. He could open the
Abrams’ glass doors by putting his feet on the latch
handle and I shot him as he pushed them open and
bounded toward the camera. Jake's quality is
somewhat like that of a hound Francis Bacon might
paint - a good introduction to my film.

The film will start with a black screen and silen-
ce. Our art department has equipment to put sound
on film after Kodak has attached a minute magnetic
stripe - you can record and erase as with a regular
tape deck. My recorded voice will come on. It will
be a lecture for an interdepartmental seminar
program I taped in the spring of '56, shaken from
my third year as Davidson's one-man art depart-
ment. The tape and illustrative slides and reproduc-
tions were used at Montrect, at Warren Wilson
College, and others. I called it, get this, ‘Form and
Content in the Recovery of Meaning.’’ It’s bad, not
black bad, bad! Earl MacCormac had _ the
philosopher Virgil Aldrich on campus in January
‘72. They saw my sabbatical show of Deya slide
paintings and we were talking about form in art. Dr.
Aldrich who had been a painter, said that it is as dif-
ficult for an aesthetician to explain form as it is for
a theologian to explain soul. You don’t need an ar-
med vision to have Prufrock’s mermaids raise your
hackles.

So silence is broken but the screen stays black.
You hear my old/young strained voice begin. Then
images fade in and out: an extoplasmic swirl that is
a dimly lit girly dancer at the Mecklenburg Fair,
shots filmed from ‘‘Love American Style’’ (Herb
Jackson said he never saw such TV but I picked and
chose and used the zoom.); the humping bloody
back of a bull jabbed by the picador’s lance; post-
cards of school children and birds in corridors; my
painting of a dead gull; photos of Spots and then
Jake opening doors. During this my taped voice
comes in a second time a second behind the first so
that the drivel sounds like: ‘was to raise to raise a
vague a vague sentiment sentiment al gushing al
gushing approach to approach to religion religion
then the b then the b est thing est thing to do wa to
wa s to go tos go home and home and feed the feed
the cat. Let’s catlets ....” .

One night a month before leaving Deya I covered
the floor with shot cards and by breakfasttime I had
picked them up in order for the rough cut back in
Davidson. Imagining the sound and
silence helped in the sequential arrangement. This
is from my notebook.

Haydn begins at normal level with 414
(Tele shot of circular olive tree with a slow

Silence from 52-11 (cats in Collosseum
w/reverse zoom thru 51-20 (face, rt. arm
and horse’s head of the Marcus Aurelius).

Maggie and I spent late February and early Mar-
ch in Italy. We had only raincoats and it snowed in
Venice and I coughed all the time. My hands were so
cold that I could barely move them as I filmed gulls
and garbage and quatrefoil facades from the deck
of a —- . Venice I quit wr —
years of Camels. I thought my night were
a iiieg ter alactine. Lacteneath, thoes puace eter,
my wife told me that she had prayed to the severed
doll-size head of St. Catherine of Siena that I stop

before cigarettes killed me. The next week I stop-

Structuring the film by picking up cards utilizes
reason, intuition and chance. Another time I would
not have ordered them exactly the same. Picking up
uncovers layers of meaning that cannot be framed
in writing. Sometimes’ the image tends to lie be-
tween shots, sometimes in short sequencesof related
shots, sometimes sharp contrasts are needed,
sometimes sound ‘‘explains’’ and sometimes it
contradicts.

Years ago Page used to sing a little plantive tune
about a lonely song, flowers, and a lover far away. I
remembered it when filming Clay and Page and
other children playing in the Parque Guell among
Gaudi’s fairy-tale architecture in Barcelona and
Clay wandering among unearthy lit olive trees in
Deya. Page put it on tape for these scenes, softly, af-
ter our return to Davidson. Emily Martin had a
record of the song (‘‘Goodbye’’ by John Lennon and
Paul McCartney) and for a stronger drive she and
Page were taped singing ‘‘in front’’ of the vocalist.
This will be used for the Harlem playground se-
quence.

Forgetting sound, there is a series of tele shots of
beautiful clocks on Italian Renaissance buildings.
Pigeons fly in front of the round images which fill
ihe frame. Next is a large bronze, circular marker.
Florentine pigeons walk across the Latin in-
scription, which translates that here Savonarola
died by fire. Nearby, I took a series of jump zooms
of Bologna's ‘‘Rape of the Sabine Woman,” closing
in on the male hand and the buttocks of the
histrionic female. Following comes a close-up of a
3-d postcard, bought in Ravenna, of a nubile, nude
blonde. At my age you have to scrounge for some-
thing sexy.

Back in Deya I showed our postcards to the
Abramses. After the Galla Placidia mosaics came
the plump Italian gir] and I could tell that Ross wan-
ted her. Later, in the Deya way, I stuck her in his
bedroom mirror while he was out. He never
acknowledged the token. Ross had just turned fifty
and was dreaming strange dreams. His Deya
gallery contained some woodcuts, not on the walls,
of attractive young people then called Hippies, and
orgies in the cala. He so regrets his shy, reserved,
Richmond youth.

Words can never convey the scope of the imagery
contained in the sixty-five rolls now accumulated. A
single roll can modulate in infinite ways a stan-
dardized beam of light when plaved through that
mechanical virtuoso, the projector. In Sartre’s ‘‘No
Exit,’’ Garcin says that ‘each of us has plenty of
material for self-communings.’’ the movie will
dramatize part of mine. But it is only a sampling, a
symbol of my interior world. Could I, like Garcin
states he could, ‘‘spend ten thousand years with
only my thoughts for company”’?

Are real? Do emotions last? Can em-
pathy through grief bring the spirit home? After
World War II I lived on the top floor of an old East-
side tenement. At odd times something there would
close in and depress and frighten me. I would will it
gone and in a few minutes it would go away,
gratefully it seemed. Years earlier, while a student
at R. P. I., my died of leukemia. Often,
coming home from a late date in his Chevrolet, I

talk to him happily. This has happened in Davidson
with my grandmother who lived to.be almost a hun-
dred and with Spots, here in the room where I write.

TREE!
He
HA
HIT
i

"
&
b
/
F

alecky Kurt V: Jr., included this
“Calypso” in “Cat's Cradle"
“‘Where's my good old gang done gone?”
I heard a sad man say.
1 whispered in that sad man’s ear,
““Your gang’s done gone away.”
Notforme.
