The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
IS 4 WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”

-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STYKES, Business Manager

FOUR

FEBRUARY 15, 1974

Exam W orrving Insanity

The ¥ inter

Alumni correspondence at Harvard
and Princeton recently revealed that
many graduates of these universities
are plagued by recurring nightmares

ber a thing called prayer

if that doesn’t seem to be

took notes on all that reading?
Whispered consultations full the
hours: ‘‘I hear he loves to sneak in
one or two...”

The nervous toll of exams rivals
pre-battle agony. Will I fight, or will I
run? Committed to the fight, we think
up sneaky new ways to run. Take all

Term Panic

hustlers. Since their schedules do not
allow them time to read the DAVID-
SONIAN, we can speak disparagingly
of them.

Why is there not a separate
evaluation method for us humans who
see 4:00 a.m. pinball games as a
preventative hygiene against middle
age ulcers?

And then, is it such a weakness
early in the afternoon tobe laid by the
rack monster’

fina] evaluation satisfactory to all has
been discovered, so our task is to
learn to live with exams. Learn to live
with pressure, simply. Bow to
pressure, and you might go looking
for a tree and a rope at the end of the
day. Look at exams for what they are,
a little bit bigger test for someone
else to judge and you'll keep your
head, when everyone else, etc.
Evaluate yourself over a whole term,
and exams will be put in their place.
The sun does come up the day after.

The idea that we prove or damn

To Florida Beaches And Back Again
The Winter Term Panacea

If you can’t bring yourself to face
the exam just yet, then spring break
talk may be just what you need. For
probably everyone at Davidson has
recently said to someone that it’s
hard to believe that the winter bitch
has ended so soon.

And if there are over 1000 students
at Davidson, there will be over 1000
variations to spring break 1974, a
time when unlike Thanksgiving and

Bourbon Street (in a likkerd daze)
and others to assorted obscure places
to redo their nerves. But whatever

other blessings that we can’t think
at this moment.

Faculty Guest Column

Ark Enemies Stifle
College Self-Study

By DONALD L. KIMMEL, JR.
Professor of Biology
Rumor has it that someone is building an ark. Screened ty
j nights of winter rains, by a barrage of words

saan be seven new committees to distract the faculty, by
several giant steps added to the students’ Route to the Future,
and by the Brick Curtain (You thought that was a library going
up behind Chambers, didn't you? Remember the sign? “The
future site of the Little Library.’ No dishonesty here.) Some-
body is rumored to be building an ark.

The schedule says that the water table will mise
above the Piedmont on Feb. 22, (4 days after Washington's bir-
thday), at which time will embark two administrators, two
secretaries. two trustees, two offices for each, two basketballs,
two dollars, two grant proposals, two reviews, two innovations
each for two new programs, two students two meal tickets, two
tenured faculty, and two books. Enough, in short, to float
somewhere sunny and start two Institutions of Higher Learning.

Creating such a plan is no trivial matter. The first overt sign
of the sceme was the ‘‘Blue Skies’’ curriculum, designed to ob-
scure true intent within a high pressure atmosphere. But

the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools: ‘‘each num-
ber college and school will perform a deceunial search for and
examination of its umbilicus’’ (or words to that effect; the term
‘navel’ was considered too direct a clue).

Under the rubric of ‘‘Institutional Self-Study Program of the
Commission of Colleges,"’ then Davidson proclaimed a cloudless
curriculum and banished lows to lesser institutions.

As Richard Goodwin wrote in a recent ‘‘New Yorker
Magazine, we hoped that, ‘through the just and rational
organization of the productive forces, the human energy that had
been devoted to sustaining life might be reduced, liberating
people to fulfill the more expansive possibilities of their
humanity.”’ All academe can rally about such a philosophy.
Students found more options and flexibility. Faculty found the
necessity to re- and re-evaluate the justice and rationality of the
fair-weather organization, which is what faculties like to do, Ad-
ministrations replicated best in the sum

And in the winter of ’74 the diabolical cleverness of the grand
plan began to appear. With the storms gathering on the horizon,
the next self-study crept onto the Davidson campus. Realization
that the faculty is too busy, that the students are too busy and too
unorganized to participate effectively in an institutional in-
trospection came with the rains. The self-study settled on us as
an imposition because we have neither the time nor the in-
clination to penetrate much haze.

The queries that guide our look at ourselves are broader than
we need, and do not adequately direct us to collectively examine
the pertinent questions: How should the college evolve with re-
spect toits Christian tradition? How can we ise withina
Blue-Skies curriculum, a departmental andcourse-by-course for-
mat, and the perpetual tug between learning “facts” and lear-
ning to learn, to liberate ourselves to fulfill our more expansive
human potential?

How can we free time and energy to create the ‘‘community”’.
we so sorely need, to test the faculty's inclination to be
scholarly, to give students more flexibility of learning and more
options related to their living here? How should we be gover-
ned?

We are organized to study these questions, and we don’t need
the tramme! of more questions and more committees that fur-
ther divide our time and energy, that further hide the ark.

The next step in the plan was discov ery of the plan itself, and
now you know that-the ark - that intense, literary symbol - may

be there. What we are not doing is what i
floating away. doing we should to keep it from

bros pfcrocs” Life ar

