Shoe | Repairman Shas TimeMarching

“People just don’t wear the same |
kind of clothes. now. In college
they just wear tennis shoes..but
things change.”

‘It’s easy to miss the Main Street Shoe Shop if
you’re not looking for it. Sandwiched between the M ,
& M and the Mecklenburg Gazette, it sits back in-’
Seine
‘inside-smells |

The. cir-
shoe repair
businéss began in 1946 during the World War II

* breakthrough in Europe.

An engineer in the artillery, Mr. McKissock was
stationed at a drop-off point for broken trucks. The
mechanics were without: hot food or drink, en-
trencheds in mud, and he contracted double-
pneumonia.. After his recovery, he was advised to
find a job which would be easier on his legs than
mechanics.

While in the service, Mr. McKissock had decided
that if he “‘ever got out,” he would go back to school.
Returning home, he took accelerated courses

through i2th grade, going on to Carver College. .
business, of-_
help him start hig own shop. He opened a'

ee , who was in the shoe repair
ee ee | bet eed aces en here ever

of loptter, coment and _ Davidson
in the air, the: low. hom of _
ro

‘man, -

have much business. Going against the odds, Mr
McKissock has observed in changing shoe styles the
ie ae life styles of ate ny people in the past 23

“lt used to be everybody wore shoes--most boys
here at Davidson College had four or five pairs of

dress shoes. Before parties or dances, there’d be so
~ ‘many shees -you could hardly turn around,’’ he

reminisced. “People just don’t wear the same kind
of clothes now. a Cone, FREY frm ‘weer. berinis

shoes.”

Mr, McKissock contrasted the “Big Weekends” of
, past and “The

come
‘pretty now, though! But Friday, Saturda

=] ed
Lary snp thn ade would be so so dressed wp.

vARboegs Bae McKissock feels “‘shoe repair is the’

samé anywhere,” he also adds, “‘there’s never a
dull day in a‘ shoe shop-always something
fascinating. He handles basic repair work on shoes,
belts and luggage, and he also converts regular
shoes to golf shoes or corrective.

Things change in the shoe business, both shoe
styles and repair methods, so that ‘‘people twenty
years ago wouldn’t know what to:do now,” Mr.
McKissock explained. Steps that used to be very
time-consuming can now be done quickly with
machinery. Mr. McKissock considers the machine
which puts heels on shoes “‘the greatest invention I
know of since I’ve been in the shoe business.”
Changing | styles have also changed the shoe
business. ‘‘More people in town wear boots than far-

‘mers now,” Mr, McKissock confided. is tom
ee eet ene «o Peeters shoes, he’s

- them all.

present. girs
pen pl hag tar ar _Guek bow bo cpiniped. He
ce A pepe hell army ry be ot |

pleasant background as, Mr. McKissock demon-
strated the process of rebtilding a shoe. “Most of it:
you just learn by yourself, by doing. You have to be
quick in the shoe business. Really a lot of work goes
into it—people think you just slap something in
there, but you work hard for every penny you
make.”

It’s amazing to watch the many steps involved in
shoe repair which Mr. MeKissock accomplishes so
swiftly and skillfully. It would be a quick and simple

to ne finger or two reayeanrng: és a
or knife.

is his “knowledge of machines and what they’ll do to
you that makes a difference.’
Perhaps it is this knowledge of machinery that,

‘allows Mr. McKissock to cut deftly, sand, trim,’

glue and stich every moment surely and swiftly. Or
perhaps it is his philosophy about work, which he
explained as ‘“‘You have to have a little bit of pride,
that’s the way not to get tired--to love what you’re —
doing.’’

For 23 years now, Warren McKissock has
shown this quiet pride in his work, as well as a frien-
dly, genuine interest in Davidson—the town, the
college, and above all, the people.

photos by venable:

