Steve Canterbury

The Davidsonian = February 1, 1974

Seven

Madam ’s Cosmetics Conceal Wrink|

Grover went to the door.
Standing upon the porch of the
House of Madam Davidson
was a group of gentlemen.
They were too old to be stu-
dents so Grover was hesitant.
“And what do you wish?’’ the
tall butler asked.

“Suh, we the visita’s board
with the sef-studa committa,”’
an old white-haired gentleman
said. “I’m fum the Univesita

Grover remembered 10
years ago. He knew what to
do. ‘‘Oh yes, gentlemen.

Grover, relieved that his in-
troduction of the House was
over, hurried to tell the
Madam that her visitors had
arrived. Old Jack, pushing his
broom and cursing Lade
Chemistry, was on his way to
say a few things to the Self-
Study Board. But Grover
caught the bow-tied Welsh-
man and sent him away. One
must make a good impression,
Grover thought.

The Madam entered. She
was wearing more make-up
than usual. Her rolls of fat rip-
pled as she walked. She smiled
courteously to her visitors and
half-sat, half-lay down in an
easy chair.

“Hi ya, boys. How’s it
hangin’ wit’ ya?”’

‘Madam, ten yeahs is a long
time. But we ahr heah on biz-
ness as uswell. We have cum
to inspect.”’

‘An’ watcha wanna see,
boys?” the Madam winked.

“Yo finances, if yew please
ma’am.”’

“Why cet’ly. Coin Dog, com
show da boys da buks.”’

Bespectacled Coin Dog
carried a huge volume of ob-
scure figures. The round man

room, the Madam will be with
you in a moment.”’

turn of course is our operating
budget through this year. If
you really want to see past
figures I can show each of
them to you but mainly
keeping in mind that we are a
NON PROFIT ORGANIZA+
TION.
switch-blade; in his right was
the arm of an unfortunate
young man. Softly, con-
vincingly, Eddie explained, ‘‘I
caught him trying to sneak in.

The visitor's board, who
were all educators, did not
want to appear foolish and so
asked no questions. Coin Dog
excused himself and went
back to his hideaway.

“Ah don believe that we

Eddie, the Bounce, ap-
peared from around the cor-
ner. In his left hand was a
tch-blade; in his right was
arm of an unfortunate

Fe

“I’ve already questioned
him and he has no strong
Davidson connections. He's
not an athlete, he’s not black,
and he’s not from too far

guing ‘tor tin, = we'll

reel to reel reviews

‘Don’t Look Now’

Nicolas Roeg, the maker of ‘‘Don’t Look
Now”’, has had an up-and-down career, and
his new film is one of the downs.

Before becoming a director, Roeg was a
very fine cinematographer (‘‘Petula”’, ‘‘Far
From the Madding Crowd’’). Although his
first directorial effort, ‘‘Performance’’ is
one of the most aggressively bad films I
have seen. It is distinguished by several ex-
cellent performances and by Roeg’s
cinematography, his best ever.

Coming as it does between two chilling
bores, Roeg’s second film, ‘‘Walkabout”’, is
surprisingly good.

A beautiful love-poem to life in the state of
nature, its setting is the vast, sunlit stret-
ches of the Australian desert, where Roeg
had few opportunities to suffocate us with
the dark, fetid camera movements he seems
to love.

Unfortunately, ‘Don’t Look Now”’ returns
us to the world of the present, where Roeg
has a prophetic vision of mankind as a herd
of distintegrating oxen.

Roeg’s content is more often absent than

bad. If his films are to succeed, it is
because of how things are done rather than
what is done.

In one way, ‘Don’t Look Now”’ is a step
forward. ‘‘Performance’’ was brutally
edited in a choppy, arbitrary fashion.
“‘Walkabout’’ was more smooth and less
daring (or foolish).

‘(Don’t Look Now’’ combines the
smoothness of the second film with the

daring of the first.
ovcliceatens together in a way that

neck is cut,

A better example is the
climax of the film. Donald Sutherland’s

and then we shift into a
of images which have

prolonged sequence
kept recurring throughout the film

have to show him the exit. By
the way son, what’s your
name?’’

‘Johnny Rockefeller,”’ the
boy timidly told the bouncer.

“Ahem, well why don’t we
step back into my room to see
if you would maybe want the
early decision plan, son.
Davidson’s just the...” Ed-
die, with his arm around the
boy, left the parlor.

“Gents, anythin’ else on yer
mind?”’ The Madam knew
that there was, but the men
were there on business and

“‘No, ma’am, we got to be a-

>

% The Joy of Eating

Cheap Food,

g Frills, And

a,

{Cheap Thrills

e Woody Connette

+t

goin’ now. It’s be-yan a

ushwell.’’
piehsuhre as They

The Madam chuckled to her-
self and turned off the light.
Jack was released from the
broom closet where he had
been detained. Young
Rockefeller was enrolled with
his 1977 (Rockefellers have
their ways) Lincoln. Things
were going typically well.

“Grover,” the Madam in-
structed, ‘“‘Don’t forget to pay
that Avon lady who came by
this morning.”

““Yes, Madam Davidson.”

g

~

ae
ee Oe ee |

In at least one restaurant in the great state, 50 cents can buy a
hot meal that will leave you wondering whether you can hold the
dessert that comes for an extra dime. The last time I went to St.
Andrew's College to see my friend, the living embodiment of
meaning and truth, we buoyed each other into the let's go slum-
ming euphoria necessary to take on the second best restaurant
in Laurinburg—Norma’s.

Leaving the street, one enters a room cluttered with rarely
filled tables and is immediately attracted by the kitchen which
stands open in the rear. There are no rules, no waiters, nothing
but intuition to carry the diner to the kitchen to order a meat
(chicken or ham) and three vegetables from a choice of five.

Without ceremony or delay, Norma then spoons out the por-
tions and dismisses her customers to the tables. ;

_ Eating in that large room, thoughts of all the boxed-on-the-
ground airline meals I have ever had are abruptly shdttered by
Norma’s scream, ‘‘Don’t rare back in the chair; it lqosens the

? :

The other customers stop eating to glare on disapprovingly.
and casting my eyes to the shower tile floor, I remember eighth
grade gym and the echo of the coach’s voice upon catching me
taking two towels instead of one to dry off with.

Norma’s food ain’t dainty—her distinction comes from her
prices and the unique character of the place she runs. With three
meals every day to take chances on, anyone in Laurinburg can
well afford to squander one on Norma’s. Besides that, it’s the
second best place in town.

For those of you who think of Midwinters as something
special, I put a lot of time and thought into trying to find a good
and heretofore unknown restaurant in the area to fit the oc-
casion. Steak joints, fish camps, and other single-specialty eat-
me’s are commonplace and can be treated in subsequent colum-

ns.

I had hoped to find within 20 miles of Chambers a versatile
restaurant all the demands of any Saturday night
gourmet. The slag of this dream is Valentino’s.Offering an im-
pressive variety of entrees, their specialty, as the name implies,
is Italian food.

Three of us ate there Monday night to give it a try and found it
to be worth a B-plus in anyone’s gradebook. Pete Celentano, who
would know, ordered ziti and was given rigatoni. Otherwise, the
lasagne and spaghetti is as good as any that I have found in
Charlotte

Prices on these delights are slightly higher than at the Open
Kitchen, excepting Valentino’s wine list, which is very

According to our New Jersey friends, Valentino’s probably
ranks as just another Southern rendition of an Italian
restaurant, but fairness and mercy force me to consider also its
location in Charlotte and raise its rating accordingly.

One block from the coliseum and across the street from
Golf, Valentino’s should be added to the Davidson diner’s dining
list and will be a suitable place to take the basketball team after

they beat Notre Dame.

End Notes: Food, once the treat of the nocturnal
elite, has been closed by the Revenue Service. The
owners failed to pay their taxes.

And finally, memories of Lynn Dean laughing in the night for-
ce me to offer up this Midwinters cheap thrill somewhat akin to
the euphoria derived from you-know-what. Combine a half cup
of dry oatmeal with a half cup of brown sugar, and eat this at
your own risk along with a large glass of water.

Then sit back and try to think of all the stupid things you have
done in your life while awaiting the sensation of the ingredients

_ swelling in your stomach.
