\ the davidsonian

I
Editorial —
Student resignations
destroy continuity

The arguments we hear most often against allowing students to
accept responsibility in joining faculty, trustees and administration
in the decision-making processes of the college community have been
ones focusing on the frequent transitions in student-elected offices.
The need for continuity of student representation is obvious,
especially in such projects as adopting the new governance system
where discussions have already lasted five years.

The one year terms of office for students elected to positions of
responsibility scarcely allow the continuity needed, but students
have recently made this, the weakest point in student bargaining ever
weaker, through cutting the one year tenure to one-half year.
Resignations from the WDAV station manager, unofficial removal of
the ’74-75 yearbook editor, and the resignation of a College Union
vice-president mar the front pages of The Davidsonian weekly while
the editorial pages still prod students to play active roles in shaping
the direction of Davidson College.

As students, we have every reason to express disappointment in
these students who have balked on the commitments they accepted in
running for elected offices. Although we certainly sympathize with
the frustrations of students in office, we find the wave of
irresponsibility and quitting repulsive. We look toward the student
body to choose representatives and officers who have demonstrated
responsible leadership in the past and willingness to commit
themselves further.

The recent SGA elections give us little reason for optimism. Few
students voted; fewer ran for office; fewer still campaigned seriously.
We feel it’s high time students come out of the fall quarter slump

and take more active leadership roles in determining the course of
student affairs in Davidson.. We should not tolerate the
irresponsibility we’ve witnessed recently in choosing representatives
or in the performance, or lack thereof, of students entrusted with

the davidsonian

“The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in

the image.”--Kenneth Boulding

WIGIKGIDEETON cc os icy ec cue Pe ON bony poocu: Editor
RIG shi ark Pedic call Sedesteuets eae Business Manager
Larry Mimms, Gordon Widenhouse ........ Managing Editors
WATE WMOOVMENON: 65 cs pis sr bss be eae Executive Editor
EE WEARS! js sc oe) ik ee Senior News Editor
ff Yo) 9) Ys a1) Rn tar re rare Pur erry ra : Photography Editor
CIMINO IIGNSON yy css ke es oe Pern ee Sports Editor
DEVIC MINARIEN Gy) hk i) nec eae Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of
Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C., 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian.

Box 218. Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

AY

Police state asks

By ANNE FICKLEN
Staff Writer

Now you might have thought that
you filled out all the forms any police
state could desire.

Well you’re wrong because some
guy in black leather leggings rode up
to my dorm door and stuck a mace
can in my face with this form
attached. How can I argue with such
a strong desire for knowledge?

Please read all instructions with
care. Mistakes will be cotinted as
errors and ignorance of the law is no
excuse.

If a minority, subtract 12 points,
freshmen answer ALL questions acc-
urately and upperclassmen will re-
frain from crudity.

'1)Upon graduation I will become a

eee !

a) success

b) big wheel

c) head honcho

d) change my name before doing any-
thing to dishonor the’ school.

2) I have firmly decided my major

a) pre-law

b) pre-med

c) pre-ministerial if they drop Hebrew
and start paying decent salaries.

d) a Renaissance man who will wow
‘em in board meetings.

3) In re Davidson's financial status:
a) I am proud to go to a school that
has money.

b) I am glad they spend’ their money
vacuuming the grass for the alumni
and don’t waste it on scholarships. I
also like the trees.

d) Thank God I'm an affluent WASP.

4) Co-education at Davidson

PIRG begins projects
despite participation |

By BIFF KIRBY
StaffWriter

Last Monday night saw the second
meeting of NC PIRG at Davidson.
PIRG is an organization which seeks
to add in some way to the life of the
college community by channelling
students into causes contributing to
the public interest. This was evident
at the meeting last Monday night,
Sept. 22.

PIRG at Davidson has begun this
year by distributing information ab-
out brown lung disease (byssinosis) to
cotton textile workers in Kannapolis,
North Carolina.

Chairperson Andrew Lamas indi-

cated that the disease, which is an>

occupational disease covered by
Workmen’s Compensation, has sym-
ptoms ‘similar to emphysema and
other respiratory disorders, and that
PIRG’s efforts would be directed
toward identifying persons in whom
the disease has not been diagnosed.

State Executive Director Wib Gul-
ley said that brown lung disease could
be the most frequently occurring
occupational disease in North Caro-
lina,

Other projects were discussed. One
involved research on the use by
citizens of small claims courts and
developing testimony on this research
before a North Carolina Legislative
Study Commission.

Another project possibility ment-
ioned was a study of “red-lining’’.
Red-lining is the refusal by lending
institutions to make mortgage or
home-improvement loans in neighbor-
hoods considered to be ‘‘bad risk
areas’’.

A voter registration project was
discussed briefly. Only 40 percent of
those citizens eligible to register to
vote do so for national elections. The
youth vote is no exception.

For those interested in consumer
affairs, a project to moniter the
availability of advertised specials in
the area would aid consumers measur-
ably.

Three project possibilities were
mentioned in the area of sex discrim-
ination. These include investigating
this campus for evidence of sex
discrimination, sex discrimination by

a The Davidsonian solicits

employment agencies, and sex discri-
mination in consumer credit.

In addition to presenting the above
project possibilities, Gulley sugg-
ested the formation of a faculty
advisory committee. Two members of
the Davidson faculty, Dr. C. Earl
Edmondson and Dr David Grant,
were present at the meeting and
expressed interest and optimism
-about such a committee.

All the projects mentioned above
can be related to the college role in a
Christian community. Sex discrimin-
ation should be of changing nature of
our own student body. Participation
in such projects by the faculty would
give us a PIRG of the entire academic
community.

What was missin; “fonday night
was the large act membership
needed to pursue ore than one
projectatatime.It ikely that none
of the project possibilities mentioned
here will interest a significant portion
of the readers of this article. Those are
the people PIRG needs most, because
those are the people who have better
ideas.

Better ideas are always welcome at
PIRG. New members are also always
welcome at PIRG. Anyone interested
in participating in any project men-
tioned here, or who has any public
interest cause to push, is welcome to
the NC PIRG meeting next Monday
night at 9 P.M. in the Morrison
Room.

‘Davidson College believes in stu-
dents.’’ Take the D.C. catalog at its
word. Now.

Letters

letters to the editor on any
Subject. All letters for pub-
lication must be typed and
Signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 300
words in length.

Letters received in The
Davidsonian offices by
Sunday night will ordinarily
be printed that week.

more questions

a) has improved my social life and cut
down on my gas bills.

b) was been grossly over-emphasized.
I mean if they don’t accept more
lookers, what's the use?

c) has taken all the good housing.

d) has stopped all the really good
lectures. Remember the one they used
to give about Catherine the Great?

5) I think the function of an
excellent, small liberal arts college is

a) to get me into an excellent, large
graduate school.

b) to get me out of the house for four
years. Maybe five.

¢) to take a struggling, lost freshman
and make a unique and _ moral
individual with a sense’ of personal
duty. allied with the strength of
knowledge, which can make the world
anew Eden. Also to make money via

the old sheep skin.
d) Uh, could you please repeat the
question?

6) Student unrest at Davidson can
Oe Seen — 1
a) when I pull an all-nighter.

7) As an alumnus/alumna, I want

a) to build the biggest, ritziest dorm

ever - with pods, bowling alleys,
elevators, doormen, saunas, whirlpool
baths and a Coke machine that works.
b) to have all my hair at my 40th class

reunion. Well, most of it.

c) Lo write something so I can go see it
in the Davidsoniana Room. With the
ol’ call numbers right under my name.
d) bet someone to finally teach me the
tune of the Davidson fight song.

If vou have answered this question-
naire with a pencil that was not #2.
then you are disqualified and lose .002
from your GPA,
