December 19, 1975

the davidsonian

Organization for SGA hodge-p

Campus elections are over and those who were elected are ready to
implement their platforms and fulfill their offices. Each organization is
blessed with a new blood of leadership and the optimism that this year
will be better, more efficient, more fun, more important.

The. college union wants to bring the community into union
programing. The Miscellany wants to become e a nationally recognized
literary publication. All of the organizations on this campus have ideas.

The new officers of the YM/YWCA promise a more enthusiastic
program. Quips and Cranks editors seek to end the apathy they have felt
in past years. The SGA Senate hopes to find the new Academic Vice
President. The students elected all want to do the jobs prescribed by
their offices and they all believe that they can.

For each person involved in the leadership of his organization there is a
clear conception of what should be done to improve it. Each individual
person that heads a studetnt organization has plans. These plans may be
accurately outlined by individuals to other members of their organization
but there is now no way for the SGA Senate to have a firm idea of what
student organizational boards which fall under its jurisdiction concieve
themselves to be. : es,

This 1s not the way it should be. ‘:

The SGA Senate is the legislative board for the entire student body.
All organizations composed of students should be responsible to their
governing body. The only way that they can be is to submit concise
statements of board by-laws to the Senate.

These by-laws should describe what the board is, where it recieves its
funds and how, and what obligations of duty or service it plans to
provide.

This presentation of by-laws to the Senate need not restrict the
autonomy of any campus board. The chancellor of the SGA may recieve
and collect by-laws from all organizational boards and then file the
by-laws away. With a file of this type, the Senate could actively begin to

define the voles of student organizations and to integrate these
organizations for maximum efficiency.

The by-laws of all boards would be returned to the boards each new
year for renewal or change by the boards themselves. These would then
be reapproved and refiled by the Senate. In this way all organizations
will be able to effectively communicate to each other the specifics of their
organization through their legislative body, the SGA Senate.

The responsibility of each student board is to approve, rewrite or draft
its by-laws, submit it to the Senate for approval and filing, and then set
about to fulfill the obligations they have officially committed themselves

to.

odge

“The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in
the image.”’--Kenneth Boulding

WEI POGRON soca 6 0 3 Sb Be ow pace bd bre 8 oe ces fae Editor
USI DION Vries fies RE ciahrnste shale ace Business Manager
Larry Mimms, Gordon Widenhouse ........ Managing Editors
MEUEIOW GOVINQUONT oo 'i%e ok en eR ek ese aS Executive Editor

Andrew Lamas
Leon Venable

Published weekly during the school year by ,students of
Davidson College. Second classS postage paid at Davidson,
N.C., 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian.
Box 218. Davidson, N.C: 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

eer ene Horney a eeeeess++Photography Editor
VSVPIULON DIN 5 6s 66sec a dies oselbececud butee Shamecueetn aa Sports Editor
PLL Ie: | ema ere rr rarer rar EPI a Advertising Manager

Munce welds politics, phil

By JOHN MUNCE

“Knowing exactly how much of the
future can be introduced into the
present is the secret of a great
government.”’ --Victor Hugo

Politics and philosophy have been
my fare for the past year. Both lend
themselves to frustration and abst-
racts; in both are failures too ‘teadily
seen while successes much harder to
discern. Rather than catalogue either
success or failure here, I want to
clarify how I judge them retrospect-
ively.

First we need to understand that
students elect senators and presidents

_ hopes of the masses,

to do all those grubby things with
which the students don’t want to
spend time. This is not pure apathy;
it is\also good sense:
Representatives, however, expect
to right great wrongs and fulfill the
who stand
behind them cheering. This just
doesn’t happen.
' They learn that students want
them to do whatever needs doing
because it takes inordinate amounts
of time and energy to accomplish it. A
lobbyist must do his homework and
we have enough of that as it is. Thus
the starry-eyed representative takes
to sitting around complaining of
student apathy while students com-

plain of the inaction of representa-
tives.

The question is what have I done to
change the classic paradigm of stu-
dent politics?

Mostly I have done very unexciting
things. Scintillating activities like
writing letters, attending meetings,
reading reports and talking, talking,
talking. People tend to forget that

’ talk is the tool used to work in a

political system, at least one in which
money doesn’t change hands.

Most of my time has been spent
either talking to someone or preparing
to do so. It takes as much time to
convince an administrator to support
a program as it does to convince a

—

De »
Su b ( nougn *
4s oot pal’ ENE
Games \
Sania Tae

The Southern Conference—

A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.

osophy

student to help work on it. ~

No, great works have not been
wrought. Yes, students are now
involved in budget formulation, the
continuance of psychological counsel-
ing, etc. What has been my role?

I have tried to be a president who
energizes people, who can direct
students to the appropriate pressure
points, who knows the innumerable
little facts that allow one to be in the
right place at the right time. The
right place is at the. beginning of the
process, often long before a decision—
any decision—is made.

This involves continual viligance
and the belief that students should be
concerned with every decision made
at Davidson. There is no decision
which does not affect the education
and experience a student receives.
The way that I have done this
involves work that the average stu-
dent does not see nor does he care to
see it—and rightfully so. That is the
reason he elected me.

Most of all I have tried to create
two attitudes in the’ community.
First, that students are able to deal
aggressively and knowledgeably with
any. issue. I did this by trying to fulfill
it myself and by trying to organize
others to launch the assaults.

Second, that students not only can
make great contributions to any
decision, but they have that right as
community members and they will
exercise it through the appropriate
means.

We need not always be adversaries,
but we certainly cannot be afraid of
confrontation. Our efforts have im-
proved relations with trustees and
have allowed us to institute programs
which have been shot down before.

But enough of theorizing and
justifying. When you’ve married poli-
tics and philosophy it leaves you with
much more than can be said here.
There are variations and adden-
dums, not to mention thank yous (to
Earl MacCormac my advisor, to Jack
Bevan, to Sally Stow, ad infinitum).
All of it is much more palatable over a
good beer, anyway.
