May 15, 1975

ye B Dea

Pere TT in, tte) il bed ee a ee eel “Seven .

Eric Walker

“We think by feeling.
there to know?

I hear my being dance from ear to
ear,”’

~Theodore Roethke, “The Waking”

Four years of Davidson are fast
fading. Time now to speculate on exac-
tly what happened before switching for-
ward momentum back on. Oh Highways
21 and 77, here I come one last time.

What did I bring to Davidson? What
do I take away? I came with questions,
only I’m just now realizing what they
were. After a 36-course feast, I’ve
sneaked a few private conclusions in a
doggie bag if you don’t mind.

What is there to know? That was the
basic question four years back. We (or
maybe just I--so it must be this last time
down the page (descended on Davidson
to check out what it had to offer. Here
maybe things would fall into place, an-
swers appear, a way of life come clear.

That Great Conclusion never came.
Or at least it never hit me over the head,
never came striding in with 76 trom-
bones, never kept marching day after
day in my head. Perhaps the biggest
unanswered question around Davidson
is how do you know when you do stumble
on the Answer? Will someone please
define conviction?

Davidson is a thinking place. What is
there to know? How do we know? We
ponder these things at 8 in the morning
and way on past midnight. If we’re
committed to anything, we’re com-
mitted to making this search with our
minds. What bothers me is that I’m un-
certain my mind would recognize the
Great Conclusion if it stared me right in
the eye.

I may have looked it over already. I
don’t know. But since four-year
veterans of supervised thinking are sup-
posed to have some conclusions, o.k.,
here’s one: thinking isn’t enough. Man

What is

took a tumble so I’m told,we’re a mix-’

ture of mind and matter, there’s a little
beast in the best of us. Simply, we feel
as much as think.

So much of our thinking is determined
by gut rumblings. Conviction, I ten-
tatively propose, is feeling your
thinking. I’m pretty much convinced
that if I ever have the pleasure to shake
hands with the Great Conclusion the
meeting will be orchestrated in my head
- with a kazoo band Hallelujah Chorus.

Faculty Guest Colnnin

Water under the bridge

4. year veteran chases Great Conclusion

Chip Barksdale. Eric Walker and Jeff Chandler alter perceptions. .

Thinking can be dull, alas. Feeling
your thinking makes all the difference.
I submit as evidence a certain preoc-
cupation with drugs here and among us.
Conviction seems a little closer in
smokey rooms where some retreat to
feel themselves think. (Careful, im-
personal pronouns only.) It’s good exer-
cise, ladies and gentlemen, but have you
ever tried to fathom some of those three
word statements of life’s Purpose the
next morning?

Altered perception has fascinated
many I’ve known. Altered perception is
feeling your thinking, no more, no less.
Kick it off with a little help from friends,
it comes, and it goes too for sure.
Cultivate it on your own, it comes and it
still goes. But it just might stick around.
The Great Conclusion, right?

Cultivate it on your own, did he say?
That’s right, that’s what I plan to be
doing rolling on down the asphalt exits

‘from Davidson. What’s my battle plan?

Simple. All this line of thought came
together in a line from a friend’s letter:
‘“‘and we know that poetry is the finest
form of altered perception.’’ Exactly.

Poetry? Well it works for me better
than anything else I’ve found. A high
school English teacher once asked our
class to define poetry. We hemmed and
hawed, but I sure as hell didn’t know til
lately. - Poetry is the finest form of
altered perception.

Poetry is a way of seeing, a field for
cultivating visions that defy plodding
mind alone. It’s a synthesizing process.
It’s a way of asking question after
question for the sake of asking without
ever demanding a final answer. Enough
answers come along the way to keep me
going.

Poetry is where I feel my thinking
most. In four years at Davidson I’ve
basically managed to work my way

backwards through one line of poetry:
“We think by feeling. What is there to
know?’’ That’s the sum of four years of
thinking at Davidson and four years of
feeling at Davidson.

There have been moments, bright
moments, when I’ve felt my thinking.
They all seem to fade, though. Will they
ever string together? Maybe I’m a
hopeless victim of the pain and pleasure
principle.

One other poem helps keep me going.
Someone here at Davidson steered me to
it and that if nothing else has made it
worthwhile. (For the sake of
bibliography, it’s Sylvia Plath’s ‘‘Black
Rook in Rainy Weather’’). I’1] murmur
the last lines leaving Davidson, and I
suspect they would do for others: ‘The
wait’s begun again,/ The long wait for
the angel,/ Fog that rare, random
descent.’’

uiz tests world economic productivity

By CHARLES E. RATLIFF
Professor of Economics

The faculty guest column this week is in the form of a quiz on some facts. This is
in keeping with the season (see academic calendar in case you are a senior who
has arranged a no-exam spring term) and is in good company (commence reading
columnist Sydney Harris in case you are not acquainted with the company).

If you are not satisfied with your performance on this test, you might check
various publications of the Overseas Development Council, the United Nations, or
the World Council of Churches.

1. The gross planetary product (GPP) per capita, or the total value of final goods
and services produced in the world per person, in 1973 was: (a) $700: (b) $1,000:

€) $1,300.

2. The GPP is globally distributed so that the 30 percent of us living in the high-
income regions receives the following percent of the world’s income: (a)_30 per-

t: (b) 50 percent; (c) 85 percent, |
ve The 5.4 percent of the world’s population living in the USA receives the
following percent of the world’s income: (a) 14 percent; (b) 26 percent; (c) 41 per-
cent.
4. The 20 percent of the world’s population living in South Asia receives the
following percent of the world’s income: (a) 3 percent; (b) 6 percent; (c) 9 per-
t.
e The largest single source (80 percent of the total) of foreign exchange for the
low-income countries is : (a) trade; (b) official development assistance; (c)
private transfers. : :

6. Among the sixteen Development Assistance Committee (DAC) countries, the
USA ranks ? in terms of the relative amount of official development assistance to
low-income countries (official development assistance as a percent of GNP): (a)
first, or highest; (b) fifth; (c) fourteenth. ‘

7. Expenditures on tobacco products in the USA in relation to the country’s net
official development assistance, are: (a) half as much; (b) four times as much;

(c) six times as much.

g. Grants by private voluntary agencies amount to ? nercent of the net flow of of-
ficial and private financial resources from DAC countries to low-income contries
and multilateral agnecies: (a) 1 percent; (b) 5 percent; (c) 15 percent.

9. Annual grain consumption (direct and indirect) per person in South Asia is
about: (a) 350 pounds; (b) 1,200 pounds; (c) 2,000 pounds.

‘10. Annual grain consumption (direct and indirect) per person in the USA and
Canada is about: (a) 350 pounds; (b) 1,200 pounds; (c) 2,000 pounds.

11. The approximate amounts of land required to produce a meat and milk cen-
tered diet for one person and diet based on plant protein for one person are ? and?
acres, respectively: (a) 31%, 1/5; (b) 1,14; (c) 5,1.

12. Twenty-five years ago the annual increase in global demand for cereals was
about 12 million tons; now it is about ? million tons per year: (a) 15; (b) 25; (c) 35.

13. In Japan the application of fertilizer per acre of land in agricultureis about ?

times that in India: (a) 10; (b) 25; (c) 50.

14. The 1972-1974 price rises for petroleum, fertilizer, and grain caused the cost of
these essential imports for low-income countries to increase by an amount equal to
? of their exports: (a):1/10; (b) 1/5; (c)1/3.

15. Energy consumption per capita is more than ? times greater in the USA than
in India: (a) 10; (b) 35; (c) 60.

16. Total military spending in billions of USA dollars in the world is ap-
proximately: (a) 100; (b) 250; c) 500.

17. The nation-state is now as militarily obsolete as the city-state because of: (a>
the nuclear warhead and the ICBM: (b) the manganese nodules; (c) the telecom-
munications satellite.

18. A UN Declaration on the Establishment of a New International Economic Or-
der: (a) was adopted in 1947; (b) was adopted in 1974; (c) has been considered but
not adopted. |

v

“(Q) BE 2(8) “LT (Q) “OT 22) “ST 2 (2) “PE ECG) “ST 29) “OT 2 (8) TE 2(8)
‘OL (2) “B 2(Q) “B2(Q) “L(9) 9 2B) “GS 3(B) “b (GQ) “ES + (9) B29) TL “SUAMSNV

‘
