Twelve

The Davidsonian

\
April 17, 1975

Writing is on the wall

By JOHN WOOD
Staff Writer

In the bathrooms of France, England and Germany
written upon the stall doors and walls people are
reading: ‘‘Lex Veazey has Hawaiian Disease’. This
piece of graffiti is seen as well in the bathrooms of
several American campuses, namely, Davidson
College.

According to Lex Veazey, a Davidson senior, a
friend of his wrote the first “Lex Veazey has
Hawaiian Disease”’ on third floor Belk dormitory in
the 1972-73 school year; it has since spread like wild-
fire. Veazey, who has lived in Hawaii did not know of
any such disease and added that it was not V.D.

Davidson College is littered with subtle puns,
philosophical platitudes and perverse scrawls and pic-
tures of graffiti.

It is an age old medium used at one time for peoples’
art forms and messages, but now only for the
amusement of truck drivers, traveling salesmen (it is
often found in roadside restrooms) and apparently,
college students.

“Graffiti and slang are generally expressions of the

ee sak pines (?

Local scrawls infiltrate ku

¢

MAN NG

common man,” said Douglas S. Looney in a recent
article on the subject in the National Observer. In
light of Davidson graffiti, maybe he has a point.

“Lex Veazey has Hawaiian Disease,” “Beware of
Limbo Dancers,” and ‘‘What’s an Eppa Rixey”’ are
repeatedly scattered over the walls of Davidson
bathrooms.

How should one react to “Death” scrawled all over
the once clean biege of a Chambers bathroom stall,
“A Clean slate--rejoice!” “Where have the words

atthe athe he OOOO OOOO OOOO OOOO OOOOOO OOOO OOOO CCCOOC OEE rr ri

Va. company insures students

By BRUCE CORSER
Contributing Editor

About eighty percent of the
students at Davidson are in-
‘sured by the North American
Assurance Sociey of Va. under
the college insurance program.
But of these 959 students
relatively few know many of
the specific provisions of the
policy.

First, the policy is effective
for a twelve month period bet-
ween September 1, 1974 and
September 1, 1975 and provides
protection 24 hours per day
during the term of the policy
for each student insured.

Students are covered on ‘and
off campus, at home, or while
traveling between home and
school and during interim
vacation periods. This in-
surance supplements services
of the Infirmary and pays in
addition to other insurance the
student may carry except in
the case of motor vehicle ac-
cidents covered by other in-
surance.

According to Robert A.
Currie, business manager, the
program provides’ good
coverage and since it is a-group
plan the premiums are less ex-.
pensive that they are for com-
parable coverage.

_ When a student contracts a
sickness during the term of the
policy and is confined to a
hospital room he may be reim-
bursed up to $40 per day for
hospital roam and board up to
30 days confinement. The

student is also allawed a
maximum of $20 for
miscellaneous hospital ex-
penses.'

When confined to the In-
firmary there is a $4 per day
service charge for meals up to
a maximum of 30 days...

A student may receive $10 for
medecine prescribed by the
college physician and $10 for
medecine prescribed by the
college physician and ad-
ministered by the Infirmary for
the first three days im-

mediately following discharge

from the Infirmary.
The premium rate for each

student for one year is $30. For
the 1973-74 North American
collected $23,900 from 959
students. They paid out a total
of $17,421, though this figure
dees not account for a variety
of - taxes, commissions, and
claim administration.

A total of $13,644 was paid for
accident and sickness claims,
$2,177 was paid for Infirmary
Stays, and a $1,600 reserve is
being held.

Robert A. Currie.

|
se PSSOSSSSSGeSoaeasseseeeseodn SPSCCeoseeeoeoe Beeeed
eh ahd abe Dah SATS TT SAA AAS TA SATS S ALTA TERRES TSE

toe + eeeee

FeuUeeeSSSTSOSSCSSSSEFeseeoeseeesesasesesSese2eoesese SSCHCHSSSSSSSHSHSSHSSSHSSSSSSSHSSHSSSSSCSSHSSSOHSSSCOSOSLSSSZETSOLSSESESEEEEES

¢

gone?’’ ‘‘dobt nihilism’’ and ‘‘No bout a doubt it!’’?:,
is this Davidson’s elite core?

Come On.

What have any of these graffiti told us and how is it
that at a college where academians and scholars
exude, none of their knowledge has rubbed off on the
walls?

One would assume that a college student could come
up with something far more imaginative than--

* “Frodo was here.”’

And then there are the obscenities.

Unfortunately the only drawings in the mens’ rooms
are those of a dirty and lewd nature.

Obscene graffiti that do appear are juvenile, simple
and could easily be mistaken for those of a truckstop
or skid row bar.

But then one’s interest perks to an occasional
“‘Why?”’ or reaches out to the nervous freshman who
told the world he was “scared to death’.

The humor

And there is always the humor, “Dave Wiley is
teaching a new math course for Religion majors and
graffiti freaks; Sadistics 69’’ and assertions, ‘““AH
HA!” and the pseudo sophistication of ‘‘Eat it solip-
sistic sycophants” that take at least a little
imagination and thought.

There is\also the theraputic wall that some find need
for; “‘Death to Administration pigs censoring free ex-
change of student ideas.’’

But what the Davidson graffiti lacks in cleverness it
refuses to make up for in accuracy. Aside from being
scribled and scrawled sloppily around the stall, many
of the words are misspelled, sentences grammatically
wrong and, when more:than five words are involved,
verbose. Maybe a style booklet is in order for all the
stalls?

Juxtaposed to the hasty doodles of the American.
campus walls V. Pritchard, author of ‘English
Medieval Graffiti,” found that a graffito then was
worked with craftsmanship and a knowledge of
draughting.

Written in privacy

Graffiti are written in privacy as well, for this
reporter found very little of them, if any at all in stalls
with no doors.

It is also found most often in stalls with the largest
writeable surface in the area of the commode.

With"the exception of only a few, most graffiti is
written within reach of the commode. Outside of a few
acts of vandalism no graffiti is found on the porcelain
hopper.

Kinds of graffiti vary from commentary phrases
and cliches to dialogues between unknown parties.
The erasures of which, by the janitors, are what some
students reacted to most vehemently.

Some of the graffiti are monologues directed didac-
tically at the other graffiti: ‘Through the lineage of
your most astute observation we can claim nothing
less than you are shitting in the commode in the stall,
not in the stall per se. To forsake the components in
totality of your statement would be an injustice to
logical perfection.”

Castizater of the Stall

Often the castigater of the stall graffiti uses quotes :
from such authors as George Orwell. ‘‘Pretentious
diction and superflous quotes serve merely to mask
one’s own ignorance’”’ and Mark Twain; “It is better
to remain quiet and be thought a fool than to open
your mouth and remove all doubt.”’

Sex and sarcasm are the only motivation for the few
attacks on administration or faculty. There were far
more instances where students were named but many
of those were only used to perpetrate a signature or in
critique of someone’s graffito.

Graffiti, that included true or false questions, honor
rolls and cliches were written with pen and ink
mostly, with the occasional use of pencil and Flair
pens to write in normally a cursive Style.

One graffitiest summed Davidson graffiti on one
wall of Belk dormitory by Saying: ‘‘A recent study on
the graffiti of stall 42 shows that 83% of all comments
are either stupid, old or very cliche, Come on-- either
write something clever or give up!”

9.0.9.9 96.9.9,0.0,6.9.6.0,9.0.0,5. 9.0. 6.5,0.6.4,9,09.99.9:9.9.0.9.6.0966.60.0.9.0.0.0.606.6.0906.008
