January 9, 1975

The Davidsonian

Three

Tree Trimming Ceremony

(Photo by Venable)

By Andrea Murphy
Staff Writer

Sophomores Brandon Rankin,
Sikes. McCord and Kevin
Shelley encountered a head-on
collision while returning to
school along Highway 21 the
Wednesday before Christmas
break. Rankin was driving his
Volkswagen north on Highway
21 when his car and that of
Evelyn Raymey collided just
north of the North Mecklenburg
fairgrounds.

State Highway Patrolman
J.M. White reported Ms.
Raymer was apparently trying
to overtake southbound traffic
and was in the left lane when
the accident occurred.

Rankin spent one night in the
hospital while he received 25
stitches under -his chin and
while his chipped ankle bone,
broken nose and a hairline frac-
ture in his jaw were attended to,
according to Dean of Students
Will H. Terry.

Shelley was forced to spend
Christmas in the hospital, but
was released the day after and
is home now. He expects to
return to school in = ap-
proximately a week.

Right now Shelley is having
some difficulties walking as he
recuperated from a broken ver-
tebral process in his lower
back, a hairline fracture in his
hip and the 20 stitches he has in

.

\ Ghost Of Mishap Past Haunts
fe Trio Injured In Car Accident

The injuries suffered by Mc-
Cord and .Raymey were of a.
more serious nature.

McCord has remained at
Memorial Hospital since the ac-
cident and is waiting to undergo
surgery on his leg. His leg was
broken twice in the thigh bone.
His operation will be scheduled
as soon as his crushed sternum
has healed sufficiently for his
doctor’ to operate without
risking complications.

He hopes to return to school
for the spring term but expects
to be out of school for the
remainder of the winter.

Raymey has been in serious
condition and is expected to
have an extended hospital stay
as a result of her injuries.

his leg.

Art Arena Sought In Banquet Hall

(Continued from page 1)

Bodini added that the Davidson permanent collection
and the Davidson National, the largest print and
drawing contest in the United States, would serve as at-
tractions for federal funding.

‘College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. plans nu
immediate action for the remodelling of the banquet
hall.

“I think it’s a possibility, but I’m not committed to
it,’’ Spencer said.

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan
expressed support for a gallery at Davidson, feeling it
would be beneficial to the college ‘‘not only from an
educational, but also a public relations point of view.’

“Chambers Banquet Hall could be made into a better
display area than anything else we have now,”’ said
Bevan. “I would put $20,000 into it and have as nice a
gallery as most any college anywhere,” he said.

Several Davidson alumni feel that there would be
much support from the alumni for the college to un-
dertake the remodelling of the banquet hall as a
museum.

“T would think that the alumni would be very respon-
sive to such a move, both toward giving funds or works
of art to Davidson for a museum program,” said
Wyrick.

“Many Davidson alumni, if not collectors them-
selves, are associated with businesses or organizations
which. have interests in fine arts; and they would
probably be willing to contribute to Davidson, ” Wyrick
maintained.

“I have a small collection myself, and I would cer-
tainly be disposed to make a contribution if I knew that

Davidson had a proper place for its display,” Wyrick .

added.

Another Davidson alumnus, Dr. Robert Henry Moore
of the Class of ’62, has also expressed interest in con-
tributing art to Davidson. Moore wrote Jackson in
April of 1972, about making a contribution to Davidson,
but did not pursue making the donation to Davidson af-
ter Jackson replied that there was no display space
available for such a contribution.

“T’m still very much interested in making a donation
of a part of my collection to Davidson,’’ Moore said
Sunday. ‘I'd like to say that my interest in fine arts at
Davidson is very strong. However, I’m reluctant to
make a contribution to Davidson if there is not a
reasonable chance for it being displayed properly. Not
only I, but other collectors, would naturally be reluc-
tant to donate work if it were just going rH be storea
where no one could see it except an occasional art class
or if it were only going to be displayed infrequently.”’

Members of the Davidson Art department expressed
feelings that a gallery/museum would tremendously
enhance the fine arts educational program at David-
son.

“A museum would give us an ‘opportunity to take
students to the works of art themselves without leaving
the Davidson campus for New York or Europe. We

would be exposing the students to the actual work of art
rather than to slides or inferior book illustrations,”
said Ligo.

“The potential for excitement for art is innately
enhanced by a museum. I see much more excitement
emerge form students when they havea chance to look
aat the original works, such as our Hogarth
engravings. Examining at firsthand the technical skill
and the-communication of the original work simply
can’t be matched by a slide or book illustration,” Ligo
asserted.

Wyrick expressed his conviction that he would have
benefited considerably as a student at Davidson from
the kind of fine arts program that could be developed
with a campus museum.

“I feel that my own professional development would
have been enhanced by at least a couple of years if I
had been exposed to this kind of program as a David-
son student. And we can all use a couple of years.”’

“‘We could also bring in travelling collections of first-

rate artists, both the modern and the masters with
such a museum.” Ligo said.

Such shows cannot be presently brought to Davidson
due to the nature of the security system in Cunningham
Fine Arts Building, lack of storage space, and lack of
display space, according to Jackson.

“Stowe galleries are effectively closed for three
months out of the year,’’ Jackson added. Cartons for
the more than 3,000 entries to the Davidson National fill
one of the rooms if Stowe from floor to ceiling, wall to
wall. while the entries themselves fill the entirity of the
other room in Stowe.

Jackson mantains that only a small exhibition of
prints and drawings can be brought to Davidson for the
monthly travelling shows as Cunningham offers no
storage for crates in which paintings or, sculptures
would be shipped. Bringing in monthly shows also
eliminates all available exhibition space for the David-
son permanent collection.

“Our commitment sap been to changing shows

rather than to display a portion of the Davidson collec-
tion,’’ said Jackson.

Ligo added that only one quarter of less of the David-
son permanent collection was displayed in the David-
son Collects exhibition held in Stowe in late October
and early November of last year. ‘‘One quarter of our
collection fills all of our available wall space,” Ligo
said.

Jackson remains skeptical of the validity of running
the present exhibition program out of the mainstream
of Davidson traffic, in Stowe galleries. ‘‘There’s a real
question as to whether the effort and the money that
we're putting into an exhibition program that no one
comes to see is worth it. It’s like running fine films for
two people,’’ said Jackson.

He also indicated the the limitations of the present
gallery in Cunningham Fine Arts Center cast doubt as
to the possibility of continuing the largest print and
Pediat contest in the United States, the Davidson

ationa

. . Jackson Seeks Art Gallery.

(Continued from page 1)
community goes almost every day,
is that it’s between the lecture cen-
ter and the research center. It’s
complimentary in that context of
bringing the picture to the word.”’

Increased security is an im-
portant consideration for
establishing a gallery in Chambers
Banquet Hall, Jackson indicated.

“We're living on borrowed time.
We need a facility that makes
security a reality,” Jackson said.

“One person could hold down the
whole gallery,” Jackson main-
tained. ‘‘That person could watch
over the collection, sell our
catalogue, and answer questions
visitors might have about the show.

“T think it could work just like the
library with work-study students
putting in scheduled hours. And I
think students would enjoy the job;
it would be a great work-study
position.” -

One of the primary advan-
tages of Chambers Banquet Hall
is the availability of storage space.

“The real beauty of it is that
storage space was there before
anyone knew it existed.;There are
rooms back behind the banquet hall
which could be used for storing par-
ts of the permanent.collection as
well as crates for paintings of a
changing show, and one for a
Davidson National office,’ said
Jackson.

There is no storage space at
present in Stowe Galleries.
Although the prints and drawings in

the Davidson permanent collection _

are stored in drawers of a cabinet,
there is no available space for
storage of paintings and sculptures.

‘‘We would be absolutely up the
creek if someone gave us paintings
right now. You can’t put those in
drawers,” said Jackson.

“Everybody can’t own or won’t
own fine art, but in a readily
available collection, it’s owned by
everyone.”’

“A community such as this does
not know what it is to have a visual
life. Through a museum in Cham-
bers Banquet Hall, art would come
into people’s lives through the back
door, which is usually the Only way
art comes into people’s iives.

‘‘And I think it would be perfectly

grand to continue to have Thursday

morning coffee and cokes right
there. Just imagine how much bet-
ter it would be to talk in a gallery
rather than in a room of blank
walls.

“In a wider sense, we would in a
way be a regional museum so that
people in the area would be able to

use it. They would know that at any.

given time, there would be an
exhibition worth seeing on display.
At a time when college President
Samuel R. Spencer Jr. is concerned
about Davidson not. being

prominent in the thoughts of people
in Charlotte and surrounding areas,
Jackson is concerned about David-
son thwarting people’s interest in

aewe have seas turned off
all interest in art in people from
Charlotte. We have often had
visitors who couldn’t get in to see
the shows we have,”’ Jackson said

“There are plenty of people in-
terested in art, but they simply
have no sort of entree to Davidson.
A gallery would be invaluable to
Davidson in the way of P.R. for
people visiting the campus.”

“‘There is money out there that
will only be attracted to Davidson
by the arts. People who have art
collections are generally affluent.
That’s just a fact.

“Obviously individuals are going
to give their art to someone. Anyone
who is a friend of Davidson could
then consider giving their art to us.
All we want to do is to provide them
the opportunity. Right now we
aren’t. We obviously don’t have a
place where any art gifts could be
properly displayed.

“‘We are getting to be known now
as an art power to some extent, so
the emperor has got to put on some
clothes,”’ Jackson said.

