February 6, 1975

The Bavidsonian -

Five

Wruck Denies ‘Das Kapital’ Panacea

(Ed. note: This is a response
from Dr. Erich Wruck to last
week’s faculty guest column by
E. F. Patterson.)

To the Editor:

During World War II I knew a
fellow soldier who, no matter
what the subject was, would
inevitably end up talking about
the importance of coal. He was
a chemist, in uniform and out.

One day the battery com-
mander told him to give a talk
on the cultural life of Danzig,
the town in which he was raised
and educated, and which the
Russian army had just cut off
from the Reich. As usual he per-
formed well.

He began to talk about the
Marienkirche, Artushof, and
Krantor, and with a slight trace
of pride of such men as

that meant coal.

It only took a few minutes and
the major portion of his presen-
tation was on his favorite and
only subject. Strangely enough
nobody minded it. After all, he
spoke with wit and authority,
quoting publications-- even
some in foreign languages-- and
mentioning an adequate
amount of names.

But above all he believed in it.

Well, those were the days
when a man in Germany had to
be a scientist and preferably

Chodowiecki, | Schopenhauer
and Schichau, who had come
from Elbing and _ started
another shipyard, and of course

free of any religious commit-
ment if he wanted to be regard-
ed as an intellectual and a man
of the future.

...Chimps Speak

(Continued from page 4)

Teaching language to chimpanzees? That is an example that was
receitly selected by Sen. William Proxmire(D.-Wis.) as typifying
the flagrant misuse of government funds on totally useless pro-
jects,

What is the use of such a project? Could you imagine trying to ex-
plain and justify such a project to your grandmother? : (The Prox-
mire Test of Scientific Excellenee) ? eae

“So what are you doing in graduate school now, son?”

‘‘Well, Grandma, I’m trying to teach chimpanzees to talk...’

(Pause. Fingering of volume control on Beltone). ;

“Let me turn this darned thing up. There now. What’s tha
again?’ ’

ewe, Grandma, I’m trying to teach chimpanzees to talk.. You

see, for years scientists have thougtit that language was the ex- -

clusive property...” aN th ,
“Is there much demand for that, son? I mean, whe buys your
talking chimpanzees? The circus? How much dothey pay?”
“No, no, Grandma. You see, I’m just interested in language, and
no one-‘had shown until recently...”

“What good is a talking chimpanzee?”’ bei  € Pic Fe Ran 9
That question cannot be ep simply. Faced with the an- LOTLeSS
ticipated ‘‘So what?” response, the pure scientist will commonly. - J
fall ck on the pot unreasonable etpuknation nation that some projected’ . oO. Piet
eo ion” Will ps ee froni- any~ increment in Oe been very Jmpreteed by
kno ‘as mR a ee” thik “similiarity'Bf Views ex-
He may then proceed to offer gomp Jikely ipmpinplabat pressed by three people who
techniques for teaching chimps te Wee language can be a — have gained my respect, I must
in teaehing autistic or retarded children, or stroke victims, etc.; if, their notion was not com-
we discover wit Kinda of ui cues migratory. birds use to get fortable for. me ‘te-accept at
from Ato B wi | Such rerharkable p ra perhaps we could im-...:-first. ree li
ve long-range weapons’ guidance systems. -- - 9 2. :
Phis your grandmother and Sen, Proxmire ‘can understand, Harry ‘Truman’s comment

though they might suggest you try a more frontal assault on the
“relevant”. problems. I would not minimize the potential im-

portance of such applications; they de spring from the seedbed of ts
pure s¢ience with sufficient regularity that pure scienee does con-

tinue to be rewarded with grant support, albeit less now than
previously, . ip cont si id aig

I would argue that the likelihood of such immediate applications,
or even the im nce of the’ al problem that such ap-

plications could help to resolve, should not be the main criterion by :

which all research is judged (and funded). And f would further
point out that in the effort to make basic research projects appear
attractively “relevant” there is a real} danger of implicitly
promising too much. too soon, which ultimately works to the:
detriment of all scientists. sagas sh

Science runs slowly, more slowly than most laymen expect.

Progress, basic or applied, is measured often in terms of years, not
months, and may be meager when it comes. :

Basic research is oriented. more toward the understanding of
phenomena than toward the power to immediately control them. It
should be judged by somewhat different criteria than applied.
research; namely, is it likely to explain the phenomenon, to in-
tegrate a range ot previous observations to provide the basis for ac-
curately predicting néw observations as yet unmade, to ultimately
add te our knowledge of what causes what in the world.

These are difficult judgements. They should be entrusted to
researchers interested in similar things, and not to laymen looking
for the quick answer to the pressing practical problems.

As much as anything else, science may be seen as an orderly and
organized (more or less) expression of the basic curiosity of man,
an expression of his need to know, which has survived in its present

it works. : : Put
oente the incredible practical problems currently facing our.
world, fo which much applied research is appropriately aimed,
pure science is not a mere luxury we can do without. _ ie

Certainly not everyone who comes along with an “un-relevant
research proposal will be a Darwin or a Pavlov. But I for one am
thankful that the latter never had to try to justify their work to Sen.

Proxmire.

As we know, that was a
generation ago and is past.
Today, unless natural scientists
are “politically engaged,” they
are ‘‘reactionaries,’’ and
‘“‘progressive’’ people, even
some ministers, carry a card of
the DKP or KPD.

Different as these
generations might be at first
glance, they nevertheless have
one major thing in common:
they believe they have the an-
swers to all problems, and if
given the chance, the ability to
solve them.

Thus it does not surprise me
that doctor noster E. Patterson
even has a solution for the
Davidson students’ anxiety and
fear problem on a “highly
scientific level”: a new social
system!

Kohl! Nobody, not even Ger-
mans (not to mention people on
the other side of the globe)
would have heard of Marx had
it not been for fear and anxiety,
which among other things drove
him to write (as they do Dr.
Patterson and in this ex-
ceptional case even me.) -

No, Dr. Patterson, if you want
to show young people the way to
paradise, mention the Good
Book, and that is not ‘Das
Kapital.”

Non ridere, non lugere neque
detestari, sed intelligere.

tied § Erich Wruck

Professor of German
» Davidson College

Meredith Hall

that the “‘paint and powder and
television appearances...I don’t

like. ..one ought to get out and

meet the people” was to me an
older man’s inacceptance of
new modes and changes.

It has always been hard for

GIFE AT

“mé to disa é

@

To the Editor:

Have there been years
previous when a secure ad-
ministration has rashly blun-
dered or forced its way into a
series of foolish or amoral in-
cidents, injurious to the con-
cerns. of the student, faculty,
and community of Davidson?

Sub-standard housing, WDAV
takeover, Southern Bell
collusion, yearbook censorship,
etc. have added a poignant bit-
terness to the rank of
traditional criticisms hoisted
ad cast off with seasonal
r gul: ‘ity by the Davidson
studer t.

For a full moment the student
body reacted with outrage; for
a brief instance the student
government sat up on its
diminutive, quaking legs and
barked with enthusiasm against
a, continuum of. injustice- all
with more fervor than the last
hollow years of empty passion.

Once more, however— not

enough.

Swift reprisal by an aged
council of trustees, a silent and
unassailable administration, sf-
fected declarations of in-
nonence and aeademic
altruism, and seeping panic
caused by the advent of exams
combined to still the voices of
protest and alarm.

Now, as reflected by Mark
Deaton in his article of January
16, the time has come for a re-
evaluation, a new role
examination.

I cannot lash out against the
indomitable bureaucracy of an
absolute administration alene.
It would be senseless. Lint

The student, the professor,

_ the community-- these, are

Gandhi. His
unerringly accurate..."
Those close to him. felt.

uncanny in their accuracy,
if they resisted them initial

doned many of his ideas, not

towns and industries. _. -
Now, another fellow;.-Gart
Rogers, has indicated his in-

| the -
least of which was his notion of *
making India a society of small...

_. to student, professer, and at
last, community, >

Heys

bodies which require a swift
prod to draw reaction.

With hope these reactions will
embody fresh thought, sense of
obligation, concern, and touch
of pride, culminating in two dif-
ficult but not inconceivable ac-
tions: introspection and
cooperation.

The general tone of the chord
suspended between the David-
son student and his human en-
viornment is lackluster, vapid,
and delibera slack.

Conversely; that between the
student and his academic role is
rigid, confining, and stretched
to the point of irremediable
strain.

The world of Davidson can be
made a real and purposeful one,
incorporating student, faculty,
and townsman,.only after the
initial steps of re-evaluation.

Once the gears within a
student’s voice shift, and when
the wheels within a belabored
and affronted government’s
mechanism turn, only then can
an administration once in-
domitable, once unassailable,
be corffronted with the student
constitution, its tenets, its
rights, and its theory.

Finally, aware of a unified
coneern within the community,
the bureaucrats of Davidson
College (such as they are) will
reconsider _ administrative
amorality and incorporate this
concern into the dictates of

_ thought and action.

Perhaps then will the osten-
sible ‘‘creed ef Davidsonia” be
realized as a sanction beneficial

4. Bavid 8, Richardson °76-
“12, AIBA England

with, Mahatina gare indixidival
Sager
his ideas and approaches were

‘ , \ 4 Py a n 1

Be: rg

terest in Human-Sized* jn- ~

stitutions. In the face of these —_-

ee he Davidion Scholar welcomes

the Serene beauty of the

aul met

Show as an aesthetic break from

the

bleak \/inter , Rain ye

