January 23, 1975 The Davidsonian Five

Faculty Guest Column
Missionaries Discuss
Living With Natives

By LAUREN W. YODER
Professor of French

(During my recent trip to Zaire, I overheard the following con-
versation betwen Kondo and Sefu, two Katangese. Kondo had just
returned to his home village after a two year stint serving his coun-
try as an ATZ (Assistance Technique Zairoise) volunteer in the
United States.

The success of the American Peace Corps effort had stimulated-
the establishment of a similar organization in Kinshasa, and Kondo
had been one of thirty-five young Zairois in the first contingent of
volunteers eagerly accepted by the States.)

-Tell me Kondo, what kind of work do ATZ volunteers do in
America?

--Well, Sefu, of course our real work was for the ACI (Agence

4 | Wa A
a ne

iyhT GANG, SHOW Me 5,

Meredith Hall

Defending Partisan Politics .

All my life I have witnessed a general
dislike for partisan politics among my
acquaintances and most friends.

Only my family and their friends in
politics ever spoke for partisanship in
politics.

Most people I know say ‘I vote for the
man not the party.’’ This is said with
vigor and is meant to indicate they are
thinkers and not followers of the herd.

Now I feel most of these people are in-
telligent but do not invoke a great deal of
intellectual effort when they consider
politics. They are casually concerned
about government and the political
process.

Those who are concerned are usually
more respectful of the roles the two par-
ties play. While I may be in a minority, I
feel our two party system is a workable
and admirable process.

To agree with me you would first have

to grant that the maintenance of struc- _

ture in any human society is vastly dif-
ficult, especially if you allow for in-
divudual freedoms.

Next, you must try to visualize
another group such as psychologists or
sociologists running the system. I have,
and I find the prospect ghastly.

In 1952 and 1956, more people voted
“for the man” than in any time in the
last generation. A review of this coun-
try’s development during the 1950’s
should cause anyone to question voting
for the individual as an intelligent com-
ment. !

Eisenhower could not and did not
function well without organized (party)
support. The opposition party
dominated the congress, and although it
was not openly antagonistic, the
President had not the relationship with
them to develop progressive programs.

The man without the party is seriously
handicapped.

This country has two compatible par-
ties. A shift of power does not create
chaos. One is not extremely liberal and
the other extremely conservative.

Both parties have within them the full
range politicalccommitments. Thus each
party is tempered from destructive
radicalism.

There are those who wish a more
clearly defined set of parties. Such a
situation usually generates everal par-
ties (as France and Italy). This does not
usually serve the population in a steady
fashion.

I want adaptability in my govern-
ment. I want one which will operate with
some smoothméss although it will often
be slow and less dramatic.

It is difficult to listen to men like
David Brinkley sneer continuously at
processes that serve us well if fallibly.
This is one column that seeks to defend
something that will receive hundreds of
published criticisms.

Many of the criticisms are required
and improvements are definitely
needed. Sneers are never needed.

Clandestine de |’Intelligence). Our front was teaching Swahili
lingala. We spent a great deal of our time inventing modern Bantu
names for Tutsi-like native athletes.

--Speaking of the natives, what are they really like? —
~It’s hard to describe them, Sefu, but the are friendly and wel-
come anything we can teach them.

--Are they really as ignorant and uncivilized as people say?

—I’m afraid so. Your average American can’t build a fire,
communicate by drum, or weave a rafia mat.

--Unbelievable.

~Yes, but we hope that our two-year stay has helped at least the
younger ones.

—And their religion, Kondo. Is it really as weird as missionaries
say?

—Well, Sefu, as near as I can figure, they worship a being called
GNP, who exacts a terrible tribute.

--How benighted!

--Yes, and to placate him, they pour tons of poisons into their air
and water. Oe

--I guess you have to boil and strain the water before you drink it.

--No. It’s not worth boiling. The DDT and radioactive materials
would still remain. But Americans* never drink plain water
anyway. They always add sugars and dyes to disguise its real taste
and ai ance.

“Yu ! How horrible to drink such filthy stuff.

~-What’s worse, many Americans spend their weekends playing
in it and dipping their kids init .

—Where do the poisons come from? .

Well of course they don’ t consider them dangerous. But think for
a minute. Each member of every clan must keep three light bulbs
burning continuously.

-Light bulbs?

--Yes, the glowing presence of GNP enclosd in a glass. But GNP
refuses to show his presence unless power stations dump coal
smoke and radioactivity intothe air.

--And how about their autos? \

--Right, there’s another example, at the heart of their'religion,
another manifestation of GNP. The vehicles roll around, pausing

‘frequently to guzzle offerings awaiting them at pumps along their

service trails. Americans pray daily to the East to keep them
rolling.

--Poor savages. F ‘

--Don’t be too hard on them, Sefu. One learns to appreciate their
lack of sophistication. And they have made great contributions to
the progress of mankind. .

--Like what?

--Like the 60 hour work week.

--Boy, can we thank our lucky stars. But for a geographical ac-
cident we could have been born in an overdeveloped country.

Inspired by Donald Kaul of the Des Miones Register

Eric Walker

Prolific Rousch Brandishes Acrid Pen

I always questioned the
honesty of prefatory assertions
in ambitious novels that all
characters are purely fictional,
and any resemblance to persons
living or dead is not intended.

Only a guilty conscience has
excuses ready before the

charge. :

If I could find a ghost writer,
or if the ghost of a writer me
could someday take shape, I
have a character drawn from
the living who is too good to
tamper with. What I have glim-
psed of his life is too intriguing
for any trait to be lost in
recreation.

Chronic scanners of ‘‘Letters
to the Editor” columns in area
n ‘*s may be familiar
Siar ey, character: He signs
himself Lawrence C. —

ximately once a month,
a fo from Mr. Rousch ap-
pears in the Charlotte paper,
another in Durham, another in
Raleigh, and, occasionally he

splashes big in the Washington
Post.

Mr. Rousch is a crusader. His
favorite targets are God, Billy
Graham, and the National Rifle
Association. His latest letter in
the Observer aplauded the
decision of a Charlotte church

to redirect building funds to -

feed the hungry: The bulk of the
letter attacked belief in a God
who could allow suffering in the
world.

I met Mr. Rousch several
years ago while working af-
ternoons in a small office sup-
ply company. He bears a vague
likeness with Henry Kissinger,
(a comparison that would ap-
pall him) though shorter and
with dancing bright eyes. A
faded muffler always draped
about his heavy overcoat that
smelled of rich pipe tobacco.

Mr. Rousch would appear on-
ce a month in the store to make

photocopies of his‘latest letters.

He mounted them very
carefully on cardboard sheets,
complete with the newspaper
title and date. The bulk of his
collection was impressive.

His work (of which he never
spoke and ‘I néver asked)
brought him to towm once a
month, and his one excursion
away from the motel. and
restaurant was to our copy
machine and our conversations.

Business would lag in the late
afternoon, but on the days of his
visits I would cease to count the
minutes on the clock. Mr.
Rousch would apear with a

. bright-greeting and proceed to

show me his latest efforts.

Letter writing was his hobby
and passion. I. have met. few
men with such a blend of good
humor, intelligence, and un-
compromising rationalism. His
favorite topics were education
and social reform. Mr. Rousch

was undaunted in his faith that

man could improve this world
with his mind.

His foes were anything that
he felt clouded this mind. Super-

naturalism in any _ form,
prejudice, ignorance, all
received his lash.

But bleak as his letters often

* read, the lash was dealt gently.

One of the ladies in the store
was of the persuasion, among
other things, that the astronauts
on the moon were messing up
the weather.

Mr. Rousch was a reassuring
experience. Finding a
Mr. Rousch had great fun with
her, especially as they debated
the authenticity of the Gospels.
Yet he always had a twinkle in
his eye.

After his visits, she would ask
me with a concerned frown
what I thought of a man like
that. I would glance at the copy

‘of ‘the letter he had left me,

something like a silver bullet,
and smile, |

\

Meeting Mr. Rousch was a
reassuring experience. Finding
a travelling salesman (as I
always imagined him) in the
wastes of eastern North
Carolina who locked horns with
all the gods of that region was
amazing at that age and this.

His battles are conducted on a
field of eccentrics, the Letters
column. Yet his voice is sane
pleading at monthly intervals.
Prejudiced in his own whim-
sical way, Mr. Rousch plugs
away for the power of the mind,
but sinks his playful bite into
the power of positive thinking.

Mr. Rousch in kin to a body of
surprising characters who think
for themselves. He surprised

_ Stamps. .
