April 10, 1975

The Davidsonian

Ku, Phi Society meetings spice
early college intellectual life

By STEVE JOHNSON
Asst. Features Editor

The first organizations
established by the students of
the college were the Eumanean
and Philanthropic Literary
societies back in 1837.

For over a decade the mem-
bers of each society labored to
raisé the funds for construction
of halls commensurate to their
influence on the campus. In
1849, the Eumanean Hall was
dedicated, and the Philan-
thropic Hall in the following
year.

During the early years of the
college, all student government
was centered in the Societies.

Until 1881, commencement
exercises were sponsored by
the Societies.

Later in the 1800’s, the con-
solidation of the libraries of the
two societies formed the Union
library. The Societies’ officers
controlled campus deportment
of their memberships until 1870.

In 1853,- the Phi Society
received a chandelier of great

value, a replica of the chandel-
ier under which Napoleon was
married.

The meetings of the societies
were continuous twice weekly
until they were interrupted
during the war between the
States, and continued thus af-
terwards until the last couple of
decades.

Then during that time,
Woodrow Wilson belonged to
the Eu Society and was often

noted for his irregular deport-

ment. The object of both
Societies was to stimulate ex-
cellence and competition in the
areas of oration, debating, and
literary criticism.

According to the Philan-
thropic society’s preamble in its
constitution, they were “‘con-
fronted with the importance of
oral communication in dealing
with ourselves and our fellows,
thus desiring resource in our
literary heritage and requiring
constant appraisal of our
current situation.,.”’ :

Here the emphasis is placed
both on the past and the
present, using it in preparation

for the future.

Each year awards were
given by each Society to its best
essayist, debator, and
declaimer, and a medal was
given jointly by both Societies
to the best orator.

A publication resulting in the
combined work of the two
Societies was the Davidson
Monthly, which was intended to
initiate interest in campus
events and literature.

However,
declined early in the 1960’s in
both Societies and reached a
low with the near extinction of
the Eumenean Society in 1972.

The Phi Society was having
its problems also and tried to
revive its membership in 1973
with a series of activities in-
cluding the presentation of Sen.
Sam Ervin as a campus
speaker.

Since then it has returnéd to
its schedule of regular meetings
and speakers. In 1971, both of the
campus literary Societies
received recognition by ad-
mission of their halls to the
National Register of Historic
Places.

participation:

+Leon Venable
Historical hallmarks

Philanthropic Hall (foreground) and Eumenean Hall
(background) were admitted to the National Register of
Historical Places in 1971.

‘Non-existant’ rivalry flares in 1970's

\ By MARK DEATON
LARRY MIMMS

Rivalry between the Eumenean and Philanthropic
Societies is almost non-existant now, according to Eu
Society President Sally Stow and Phi Society President
Gus Succop. But they say so with smirks on their faces.

‘There used to be strong rivalry in that members in
each society took pride in their group. No one is proud
to be in the Eu Society,’’ Succop maintained.

“Eu Society has not shown any ability; they’re not
worthy of a debate with us. We are alive, and we’ll
debate Eu when they show some signs of being an
organization,’’ he said.

Stow mentioned the changing objectives of the Eu
Society as agents which quell the traditional com-
petition.

“Eu has changed from a literary society to a group of
people with active social concerns. I don’t think that
the same kind of traditional rivalry is possible.

“I don’t see why a Phi Society member could not also
be a member of Eu. I just wish the opposite were true. I

+Pete Goodman

“There used to be strong rivalry in that members in each society
took pride in their group. No one is proud to be in the Eu Soéiety.”

would especially like to see women able to become
members of the Phi Society, although I don’t know why
they’d want to be,”’ said Stow.

Succop indicated that the Philanthropic Society Con-

. stitution would have to be amended to accomodate

'

women. :

“Phi Society doesn’t feel the need to go coed at this
time. We represent one of the last traditions at David-
son. This makes us more unique, and it serves as one of
our major drawing cards,”’ said Succop.

The goals of the Phi Society are consistent with those
for which the organization was founded.

‘‘We are a literary society. We meet and discuss
many topics. We meet in a distinguished manner and
have intellectual discussions,’’ Succop claimed.

“‘We turn off a lot of people by meeting in coats and
ties: There’s some formality there, but being a mem-
ber of the Phi Society is something one should have
pride in,’”’ he said.

According to Succop, associating with society mem-
bers dressed in coat and tie makes him feel more in-
telligent and sophisticated than he normally feels.

The formality observed by Phi members extends to
the giving of diplomas printed in Old English.

. Each member of the Philanthropic Society is
required as a senior to give a 15 to 20 minute paper ‘‘on
anything of research value.’’ Succop mentioned two

papers given recently, ‘‘The History of the Davidson

Basketball Team” and ‘“‘The Negro in the South: He’s
Losing His Flavor.”

The Philanthropic Society attempts to bring
speakers to each of its meetings. United States In-
formation Agency Executive Simon Bourgin, former
Senator Frank Harris, and Dave Sentelle have spoken
recently.

Stow stressed the difference in the Eu Society.

‘‘We’re not just the same, staid, established society.
We use the same name, the same building, but our pur-
pose has changed, and we’ve broadened our interests,”’
she said.

‘‘We no longer are just harboring academic in-
tellectualism, but community concerns,’’ she added.

“T weild especially like to see women able to become mem bers
of the Phi Society. although [don't know why they ‘d want to be.”

—Sally Stow

‘Eumenean Society president
cs STREETS Et SSE OD SE i  S TSE E  CLOEELD

—Gus Succop
Philanthropic Society president

+Pete Goodman

Stow referred to the Eumenean Society ‘“‘as a
clearinghouse’’--people bring things they want to
promote at Davidson to meetings for the society sup-
port.

The Eu Society, for example, sponsored the recent
Good Friday fast and the collection for CROP and
world hunger.

‘“‘We don’t require coats and ties, our meetings and
our membership is open, and we do allow women mem-
bers,”’ Stow said.

“‘We have a new constitution, so we no longer have
fines for things such as spitting on the side of the
building. That was in our old constitution.”

Both societies meet once every other week on the
average. Philanthropic Society. boasts of a mem-
bership of approximately 25 whereas the Eumeneans
claim. approximately 10 active members at present.
