May 9, 1975

Seven

The Davidsonian

White knight becomes midnight rider

By JOHN WHITE

My high school friends scoffed at me for coming
south to college. Their arguments were all rather
predictable. ‘“‘Why those damn crackers are back-
wards, bull headed and bigoted!” It was this last ac-
cusation that packed the most weight with my Cin-
cinnati friends. :

In 1971, we Yankee liberals really did picture
southern boys as cross burning/fire bombing racists.
The irony of my whole suburban background, though,
was that our lilly white high school was far more
segregated than any public school in the south. There’
was one black student among 700 whites in my high
school.

Many of those whites were bused several miles from
an adjoining community to attend this school. A black
neighborhood a stone’s throw from the school had their
kids bused 10 miles in the opposite direction to a poor
inner city school. :

Declaring bankruptey

In choosing a southern college. I was declaring
bankruptcy on any chance of racial progress in the
white suburbs I was leaving. z

Before the liberal fervor of us middle class WASP’s
could do any good, we would first have to establish sim-
ple contact with black people. But even the most com-
monplace contact, integrated schools, is vears distant
from my little suburb.

The Davidson racial scene appeared considerably
more positive than what I had just left. The white kids
and black kids of Davidson all attended the same
school,

The College had a handful of black students. A hand-
ful was nothing to brag about, but remember. I was
coming from a place with a black enrollment of one.
Through various programs, the: college students ac-
tively participated in the black community. All this
truly thrilled me.

I saw for the first time a way for me to promote
racial progress. This would come to be my overriding
goal for my career at Davidson.

And now, four years later, I can identify some very
tangible advances in the Davidson racial scene. A
black man now sits on the Town Council. Last year that
Council appropriated a significant sum to renovate the
old black elementary school into the Ada Jenkins Com-
munity Center.

In terms of programs and participation, that in-
vestment has been a huge success. This spring, the
school system established a Street Academy in David-
son for the large number of black drop-outs in the area.
Davidson College students are volunteering for STEP
Tutoring in greater numbers than ever before.

In a more activist role, a small band of students
fought for housing improvements for black families of
Davidson. As a result ,Town Council has opened access
to land and money that formerly was closed to black
families.

Double edged sword

To stop here is describing the current racial scene
would be deceitful. I didn’t agree to write this article in
order to pat everyone of the butt for a job well done. Af-
ter setting the scene of tangible improvements in
Davidson, I now want to tell you what is more
wrong than ever.

There operates the meanest kind of double edged
sword in Davidson. You read about one of the blades
two weeks ago in The Davidsonian. It’s that old time
prejudice that still slices black college employees. with
poverty wages and minimal advancement.

The wounds from such a weapon are obvious to
everyone. The black worker labors harder than any
professor, but earns a salary that barely sustains his or
her family. It is an insult to personal dignity for the
black worker, no matter how talented, to be idled
forever inthe same job and salary.

Without fail, it is black workers who occupy theworst
positions at the College, and must hail to a supervisor
that is invariably white.

Perhaps the most galling point of all. is that the black -

employees know that their children are not permitted
to walk unescorted on the campus: As a matter of pol-
icy, all kids have been banned from college property.

But the policemen no more than wink at the
professors’ children who come here to play basketball.
attend concerts. or to visit the dormitories.

The black kids. on the othr hand, are roughly
questioned by the police and escorted off campus.

A

White —Leon Venable
.. reformed white knight

Paradoxically, it is the white kids with more money
and resources to amuse themselves who are permitted
free run of the campus. Black emplovees who labor for
the College cannot even share that simple fringe
benefit with their families.

The other blade of the double edged sword is more
subtle, but no less deadly. It is wielded by those white
folks who most resent the cruelty of the Davidson
College employes.

Tragically, the majority of these latter swordsmen
don’t even realize the damage they do. These are the
white knights. They are the liberals of Davidson who
fought for the tangible racial improvements listed
earlier in this article. For too long, I have ridden with
the white knights.

Major flaw.

The major flaw with these good-hearted people is
that they want to nurse the black community of David-
son to racial equality. They feel that the only way that
progress shall come about is to do the job themselves.
Their intentions are sterling: the consequences . re
debilitating. :

This blade of the double edged sword cuts off the
balls of every adult black person in Davidson. In all the
tangible advances for the Davidson black people listed
above, the black people themselves were only remotely
involved. Ther were treated as children who needed to
have these things done for them. Self-initiative was
nipped before it could ever bud.

So the black people of Davidson are robbed of their

right to be active; willful adults. The white knights. —
create eunuchs of the very people they seek to make

potent.

Emasculation

Consider how easily this emasculation can _ take
place. A small group of Davidson College students
decided that the housing of black people in Davidson
was shoddy and overcrowded. With tactical genius,
those students used The Davidsonian, the Observer,
and open town meetings to assault the Davidson elite
who could improve the housing conditions.

The~ outcome was a smashing success. Black
families living in college substandard hoursing were
relocated. Federal funds were opened for black people
who wanted to build better housing. But in this
beautiful ‘‘tour de force” of the white knights. there
were no black townspeople substantiaHy involved at
any level.

All along the line, it was white students. white college
officials, and white Council members who handled af-
fairs. This type of chauvinism promoste passivity
among the black citizenry of Davidson.

Black kids learn early that it is the white peopl
shall provide the extras for them. The Ada Jenkins
Community Center serves predominantly the black

“So the black people of Davidson are robbed of their
right to be active, willful adults. The white knights create
eunuchs of the very people they seek to make potent.”

ee ae

~.

kids of Davidson. The majority of the staff. though. is
white.

Black kids learned long ago that is their STEP tutor
who can legally take them on that forbidden ground.
the camps. STEP provides swimming. Easter egg
hunts, picnics. etc. for black kids who can’t get this at
home. Scouting and organized sports follow the same
pattern. It is usually white adults who provide the ex-
tras, the icing on the cake. for the lives of the black
kids.

Honeymoon is over

Once the voung black person reaches adulthood, tbe
honeymoon is over. Without the means to attend
college, he or she stays in Davidson and takes a job at
the local mills or the College. Usually they are saddled
with a mate and family by age 21. and they are locked
in the system. This is where the first blade of the
double edged sword does its damage.

And then the second blade. wielded by the white
knights, finished the neat one-two sweep on the young
family. The parents labor at a degrading job to sustain
their children. There is little time or money for the ex-
tras. The white knight appears on the scene to provide
favors, entertainment, and privileges. Bam! Bam!
The balls of the black parent hit the floor.

The black townspeople have not experienced the
satisfaction of isolating a problem, mapping out their
course of action, and pulling off the solution. The white
knights invariably take over in either stage 1, 2, or 3.

Consequently, the black citizens of Davidson don’t
feel a strong selfhood or potency. Their conditions shall
never improve substantially until these qualities live
in every black man and woman. College students shall
always graduate and leave behind their noble crusades
for racial justice.

Citizens run hot

White citizens run hot and cold on the issues con-
cerning the black community. Only black leadership
shall steer a problem through its proper conclusion.

So where do I stand now as a confessed and reformed
white knight? From here on, I shall throw all of my
support and my skills to the black person who asks for
my help. The leaership and direction of the movement,
however, shall remain their own.

If I observe a bad deal being given a black person, I
will restrain myself from stepping in and correcting
the situation myself. I will wait. Even if it takes years
for the black community to mobilize against an issue, I
recognized long ago, then I did well to hold off.

There is value in letting an anxiety producing
situation exist long enough for the individual to finally

rise up and fight. That is the only way to achieve poten-

cy. For me to do anything else would be like an over-
protective parent. Seon

So with sorrow, I did not apply this summer for the
position of Director of Summer Recreation in David-
sonn that I held last vear. I did a good job, I got a lot of
satisfaction, and I loved the kids. But my time for an
ego trip like that is over. I have deferred to a dynamic
black woman from Davidson who has applied for the
job. She shall dispense the goodies to the black kids this
summer. This white knight rides no more.

BARGER
CONSTRUCTION
CO.. INC.

GENERAL CONTRACTORS

®

_ P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
-MOORESVILLE, N. C.

M. A. WICKER
President and Treasurer:

‘BENL.MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-Presiden t and Secretary

oes

=

it iii ee aibinn

