November 7, 1975

A the davidsonian

Article XIl controversy

Censorship insistence
denies student media

As soon as the Governance Committee Subcommittee on the
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities released the
ninth draft of the proposed Article XII of the College Constitution
for public scrutiny, we again heard controversy concerning
student media.

The primary problem with which this community has to grapple
concerns the amount of editorial freedom given to student editors
when the college, as publisher, is legally liable for the content of
student publications. Individual writers and editors are also held
legally accountable for publication content.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. expressed concern that
the statement did not protect the college rights as publisher. He
maintains that the college cannot guarantee freedom from
censorship, a major point in the Article XII draft.

Yet as Governance Committee Chairman Walter L. Lingle said,
“I’m certainly not in favor of advanced approval of copy; that is
not workable or acceptable option to anyone.”

Removal of editors

To remove final authority in editorial decisions from student
editors is to make the publications something other than the
student press. We feel that if the college cannot condone the
content of a publication, as publisher, it must remove the editor.
Provisions for the removal of editors are contained in the draft.

As Charlotte Observer Managing Editor David Lawrence said
this week, ‘I feel the college‘is better served by vesting the
greatest possible amount of editorial freedom in students, and this
is freedom from prior censorship. I have no qualms when the
college, through due process, decides upon the removal of editors.
That’s how we wotk here at-The Observer.”’ .

Charlotte Observer Editor Pete McKnight indicated that if h
were the publisher of the college student newspaper, he would
insist upon a policy of no prior restraint, allowing maximum
freedom for student editors and staffs.

Such a policy calls attention to the relationship of student
editors to the Board of Trustees. Andithe model of the
relationship in professional newspapers between publisher and
editor breaks down at this point: At Davidson, editors are not
hired by the publisher; they are volunteers elected by the student
body. If the college, as publisher, does not hire students to edit its
publications, removal of editors must be accomplished by the
constituency electing them, the Student Government
Association.

Publisher protection

The proposed Article XII calls for the establishment of a
student communications advisory board. Such a board would
logically recommend to the SGA Senate that student editors be
impeached for due cause. Such a procedure provides the.necessary
checks on editorial freedom, protecting the college as publisher.

If the college insists upon censorship powers, there is no reason
to include a section on student media in the proposed Article XII.
Without the freedom from prior restraint, there is lo relationship
between college and students necessary. Publications without
final authority entrusted to student editors fail to be student
publications.

the image.”’--Kenneth Boulding

“The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in

MAIKO SON: oc00 ce thus wen © ios ieecein! < dbidabiataralae: Editor
SAME ee ye Seek sick 8.8 Chk Business Manager
Larry Mimms, Gordon Widenhouse ........ Managing Editors
BARIENOW OGVINGEON «ios bo vaiee cic needs Executive Editor
PCO REIN og a bs 8 She ekg Cotes Senior News Editor
UROACRTNEENS 6S 65 oay 6,5 estas 3 ld bee & 04 a 9 Photography Editor
RRM MN oo 55s bo kw acai 4 dis 8G ounce tela aa Sports Editor
aM Xe, so0e 5s 5 os pugs's « WSs a aa Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of
Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C., 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian.
Box 218. Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

Letter to the Editor
Alabamian counters

Westmoreland’s slurs

To. the Editor:

My sister recently sent me a
clipping from the school newspaper at
Mississippi State University; it was
an excerpt from the verbal feces of one
Bob Westmoreland, written for your
paper.

This Mr. Westmoreland, presum-
ably a Davidson student (certainly
not a ‘Davidson Gentleman’’), appar-
ently has some serious hang-up or two
regarding my two favorite Southern
states— Alabama and Mississippi.

My sister felt that, in her words, ‘‘it
was so meaningless and pointless, I
Saw no reason to waste a stamp.’’
Regarding her summation of the
value of the article, I cannot agree
more firmly.

However, she is not a Davidson
graduate; I am. Thus, I feel more
“‘compelled,”’ one might say, to offer a
reply.

I was born in Alabama, and on the
maternal side, I am a fifth-generation
Alabamian. I have lived for all of my
life (with the exception of schooling in
Montemey, Mexico, Davidson, N.C.,
and Tuscaloosa, Ala.) in Butler, a
small town only 35 miles southeast of
Meridian, Mississippi. Thus, I have a
good degree of familiarity with both
states.

I am married to a young lady who
was born in Alabama, a sixth-gener-
ation Alabamian on the maternal side
and a fifth-generation Alabamian on
the paternal line.

She is well-educated (having re-
ceived her B.S. degree in Chemistry
in your own dear state of North
Carolina, Mr. Westmoreland) and a
highly refined woman. We are the
parents of a small daughter who is
quite special, naturally.

I was reared in an atmosphere of

respectability, honesty, and Southern
“good manners’ and the like. Both
my parents are college graduates. All
of my grandparents had college
experience.

I am the son and grandson of
former (deceased) bank presidents
and the brother of a bank president.
One grandfather was also an attor-

- ney; the other was an « ‘ountant.

In North Carolina, 1) ‘et many
schoolmates from various sv. tes who
did not even know who their grand-
parents were.

If you are saying, Mr. W., that the
people from Alabama and Mississippi
are lacking in refinement, then I say,
in short: Bunk!

We do not ‘‘worship’’ our ances-
tors, as the accusations-go; however,
neither do we “‘worship’’ the popular
misconceptions perpetrated by the
Eastern establishment media and the
spineless and gullible college stu-
dents, like Mr. W., who so readily
succumb to the propaganda they
regularly ‘“‘churn” out. é

In concluding, I might make men-
tion of the fact that many times I
have crossed the Alabama-Mississ-
ippi line three or four times daily, and
never have I seen any such signs or
places as described by Mr. W.
Perhaps your North Carolina glasses
aren't made properly; or, do you need
to enroll in the government's “Right
to Read”’ program so that you can
discern whatever the words are that
trouble you!

And, so, as I relax in my: ‘Bama
abode, and you slave away in the old
D.C. library, I can only say, ‘‘Eat
your heart out, Baby!”’

Jim Evans
Burton, Alabama
