Che Davidisonian Earthy Ammons expresses
Lively forest encounter

“The meaning of a message is the change which it produces
in the image.”
--Kenneth Boulding
Mark Deaton, Editor
Andrew Lamas
Executive Editor

Larry Mimms

Managing Editor

FOUR. _. MAY, 1975

Adding zip to the union

A campus contract postal station located in the new Grey
College Union would be a substantial asset to intercampus com-
munication and a tremendous boost to the extracurricular and co-
curricular college programs.

However, we share the concerns expressed by many members
of the Davidson community: regarding possible decreases in con-
tact between students and other town members. Whether or not
the decision is made to house a post office in the new union, we
would like to see a more gdcerted effort made by both groups in
establishing greater and more meaningful interaction.

We feel that the College Union Board, with its new facility,
should play an active part. We hope that the Union will continue to
make its concerts, artist series, and other activities open to the
general public.

Further, we would like to see residents of the community invited
to open ends and other forums pertinent to the entire community

for a mingling of ideas. A discussion of the post office relocation
might be an excellent starting point this year for the kind of act-
ivities we anticipate next year.

We understand the concern of the downtown merchants in
thinking that a relocated post office would create new traffice pat-
terns which might hurt their businesses. However, we doubt that a
campus union would have the substantial impact they fear.

From our conversations, it is obvious that as many students
stop by the post office as an afterthought from mingling with the
downtown merchants as do students chancing to stop to visit the
merchants because they walked downtown to check empty post of-
fice boxes.

For example, The Hub is not just the only place in the world a
student can get a Triple-R; it’s the only store which sells it as a
side order to a conversation with Ralph.

As long as the merchants on Main Street are interested in
relating to their student customers, we feel students will generate
traffic to Main Street.

We also anticipate fill college support for the downtown
development project. We hope to see the Davidson College Student
Store move to a new location downtown at the earliest possible
date.

If the college does decide to operate its own postal facility
separate from the Town of Davidson post office, we challenge
students, faculty, administrators and non-college associated
citizens of Davidson to strengthen the commitments many in-
dividuals obviously feel concerning the closeness of town and
gown groups in this community.

Health service check-up

‘We applaud the trustees’ decision to evaluate the college health
services at Davidson. This is a long-overdue decision. Even more
alarming to us than the out-of-date facilities of the college in-
firmary are the hours kept by the physicians who work there.

The advertised doctor’s hours are seldom kept, to the best of our
knowledge. Students constantly complain of going to see the doc-
tor during posted hours only to find that the physician has left long
before. We feel that it is imperative for the advertised doctor
hours and the actual hours spent by the physicians tacoincide.

_According to representatives of the trustee Student Life Com-
mittee, Dean of Students Will H. Terry has been designated as the
organizer of the health service study.

The evaluation process, including interviews with students, in-
firmary personnel and the physicians is to begin this week.

We are most pleased to see that Dr. James McFarland, for-
merly a member of the Duke University Student Health Service,
was asked to play a major role in the study.

We encourage students to participate actively in the evaluation
process. :

Gus Succop

On Monday, May 12, at 8:00 pm, the
Davidsonian College Honors Center will
have in its midst a National Book Award
winner, a Bollingen Award recipient,
and the twentieth century heir to the line
of poets (Emerson, Whitman, Stevens,
Williams) who constitute American
Romantic Poetry. I refer to the unpre-
cedented consent of A.R. Ammons to
come to Davidson and read his poetry.

_ Before I begin to foam at the mouth,
I want to call to everyone’s attention an
article by Harriet Doar on Ammons. The
article may be found on page 4b of the
Sunday, January 26, 1975 issue of the
Charlotte Observer.

And so you’ll want to rush on over to
the library to read it, allow me to whet
your appetite. Ms. Doar stated that:
‘“‘Now an endowed professor at Cornell
(Goldwin Smith professor of poetry), he
is spending a sabbatical year teaching a ,
poetry workshop at Wake Forest
University, his alma mater.

So he was ‘‘back home’’ when he
learned this month that he had won the

Letters to the Editor

most distinguished award in American
poetry, the Bollingen, for his new book,
“Sphere: The Form of a Motion,”

published in December...He’s as open to
people, one-by-one, as he is to words and
perceptions. But not people in rows in
auditoriums; they scare him. |

‘“‘Henolonger gives publicreadings--he
never got inured to it--though he likes to
read with friends.”

Mr. Ammons is not an academic poet.
He is a fun poet who writes about ex-
pressive relationships he has ex-
perienced in nature. For instance, the
last time he was at Davidson, Herb

Jackson, a student at that time, took
Ammons out to see the standing egg
rock. He loved it. And when I told him
egg rock had faHen over, he loved iteven

more. Mr, Ammons’ spirit to write
comes from the natural processes he
sees in nature. But, Mr. Ammons would
frown upon what happened to Hatties.

Well, I’m beginning to foam at the
mouth, so I’ll let you go read Ms. Doar’s
article in the Library. What a way to
remember your spring term at
Davidson.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits let-
ters to the editor on’any sub-
ject. All letters for publication
must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters
over 300 words in length.

Letters received in The
Davidsonian offices by Sunday
night will ordinarily be printed
that week.

Koloditch blasts Aid

Office for negligence

To the Editor:

Being on JYA (Madrid), I have had to
register and get myself back into David-
son for senior year through the mails.

The Office of International Education
has done a fine job of mailing me David-
sonians.

The Registrar has given me ample.

time and information to register for
courses: however, I seem to have been
totally forgotten by the Office of Student
Housing, and, more importantly, by the
Office of Financial Aid.

In regards to housing, that is’a lesser
problem that can be solved later. and
with the way the administration has
screwed up housing by not consulting
Scotty Nicolls about changes in
enrollment, I can understand the slight.

The neglect of the Financial Aid Office
is a much more serious and frustrating
problem.

My parents paid the tuition deposit.
submitted the Parents’ Confidential
Statement and requested that a Finan-
cial Aid application be sent to either
them or myself.

This was in. early March. In early
April. I mailed another request to the
Financial Aid Office for an application.

As I remember from last vear the
deadline for submitting applications is
April 30, though it mav be different now
which shows how much I’ve been in-
formed.

Today's date is April 29, and I have vet
to receive an application. meaning |
can’t possibly make the deadline. ~—

For me. this is a personal disaster. for
there is no way I can-return to Davidson

next year without financial aid.

_The Financial Aid Office has had am-
ple time to®supply me with an ap-
plication-- the blame is theirs, not mine.

Perhaps a public complaint such as
this will help. I don’t know what can be
done now that the deadline is a foregone
possibility. but mavbe someone can help
me correct the damage caused by the
neglect of the Financial Aid Office. -

James Koloditch ’76
Madrid, Spain

To the Editor:

At the end of a letter from Tony Boon
who is at Marburg this year, he wrote.
his feelings about his year abroad. I felt

that your newspaper might like to...
publish it.

Francis Ghigo. -

Professor of French

Davidson College

To the Editor: eee
Since I’m writing, I’ll include my un-
solicited opnion of JYA: It’s the op-
portunity of a lifetime, and if all the
freshmen and sophomores knew. how it
was, there would never be any Junior
students on campus. They'd all be over

here,

_ Nevertheless, I’m excited about get-:
ting back to Davidson, and I hope
evervthing’s going well there. I'll be-

looking forward to seeing vou in the fall.

Tony Boon ‘76
Marburg, Germany

rHERS
