October 10, 1975

4: the davidsonian

Removing freedom
of expression:

Treason to
good journalism

Following the Board of Trustees Governance Committee
meeting Wednesday, most of the members felt confident that the
conflicts between the College Constitution and Trustee By-Laws
had been resolved. Therefore, the new governance system for
Davidson Colleges substantially ready for implementation, save
the adoption of the Statement of Student Rights.

Questions concerning the student media continue to cause
committee members to hesitate in adopting this statement of
student freedoms and responsibilities.

Members of the Governance Committee, especially trustee
members, have expressed concern over standards of good taste
reflected in student publications. Such is a concern of
all members of the college community. The conflict appears
when certain members insist upon censorship powers, the right
to approve copy in advance of publication. With the college
asserting itself as publisher of student media, it is logically
argued that college administrators should be able to determine
the content of the student publications. However, to allow
an individual or group such powers removes responsibility, legal
and editorial from the elected student editors. Censorship on
the part of administrators or any other group negates the media
as student publications.

Faculty members of Davidson College are already guaranteed
the rights of freedom of expression in their classrooms and in
their media. Are students likewise to be considered and held
accountable for responsible expression of ideas in the college
community? It is difficult to conceive of an educational institution
where freedom of expression is denied its students. However,
the concern with the public image of Davidson College has
somehow subjugated the concern with education; in an effort
to insure the survival of the college by maintaining a good
image, some are willing to destroy the college as an educational
institution.

We feel sure that there is no further value in hesitating over the
issue of freedom of expression by students in the media.
The existing structures for checking blatant irresponsibility
on the parts of student editors are as stringent as can be allowed.
With the publications board offering editorial guidance and the
Student Government Association, maintaining the power of
impeachment of student editors, freedom of expression can be
responsibly maintained at Davidson.

And as far as the editorial staff of The Davidsonian is
concerned, any attempt to remove freedom of expression from
student publications constitutes treason to principles of good
journalism, a disservice to the educational community, and an
insult to the integrity of every student on campus. We reiterate
that efforts to abolish this newspaper as a student publication

will result in no further publications of The Davidsonian
by the present staff.

the davidsonian

“The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in

the image.”’--Kenneth Boulding

MAEIDO RON. 6's 5 5.5 kate CaN ha 10d hole mom tee a Editor
PEP) 10031 1). aa a aa eer PP ne Business Manager
Larry Mimms, Gordon Widenhouse ........ Managing Editors
MattneWsCOViInOton..... sess cle ce ewe Executive Editor
PROTOW UEIMGO coi. ea hiaied shee tes Senior News Editor
MSO DenRA ION 0156555 4.5"s o + as 88 gues go Mies Photography Editor
JIM:SIRGISON.. 6. eee Sones Ora ee Sports Editor

AVI OROOT 6 che ek ube Ceara sieihacen Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of
Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C., 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian.
Box 218. Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

athletes’

Letter to the Editor

Stature

Athletics policy reeks
of zealous desperation

To the Editor:

There is a distasteful smell around
Davidson athletics this year.

For a liberal arts college devoted to
the development of the individual, I
sense a desperation seeping into our
football and basketball programs.

Both Farrell and Brickels need to
produce winners in order to stay here.
Due to their zeal and efforts, it
appears time to reconsider the role of
the student-athlete at Davidson.

I have heard an unusually high
amount of criticism for both pro-
grams. The charges revolve around
mishandling people, not bending to
help the individual. It is difficult to
sort these from the normal sour
grapes found around any team.

Yet, there are other indicators that
make me question Davidson’s concep-
tion of the athlete.

It seems harder for our athletes
under these programs to be an
integral part of student life. Farrell
has established a training table for his
football players. While this may be
desirable for their diets, it should be
weighed against the loss of a normal
and vital channel of communication
with new influences.

Several hall counselors have noted
the appearance of football coaches on
their halls checking on curfews and
study habits. It can not be denied this
singles out the athlete.

A question remains whether these
protective measures are (1) necessary
in extracting an acceptable perfor-

mance from the athlete, and (2)
desirable in light of its effect on the
individual’s education as opposed to
his athletic perofrmance.

Brickels has established a manda-
tory study hall for some of his
players. This also offends me. I can
not help but ask if we are as honest in
our admissions policy as we claim.

If these students need an enforced
study hall in order to stay eligible, do
they belong at Davidson? Are they so
undisciplined that they can not be
offered the choices and dilemnas
necessary to the growth of the
individual in a liberal. arts college?

A student does not develop the
ability to question his values or
strengthen his self-discipline under
unnecessary segregation from the
student body. Because a liberal arts
education depends upon the interac-
tion of its community members, the
isolation of any individual affects not
only the student but the atmosphere
of the college as well.

I would rather see Davidson with-
draw from intercollegiate sports than
manipulate individuals in the way
that our basketball and football
programs appear to be doing.

If Brickels and Farrell will not
reconsider their methods, it would at
the least seem prudent for them to

reconsider the images of their pro-
grams.

Don Benson ’76
Davidson College
