Che Aavidsonian

“The meaning of a message is the change
which it produces in the image.” —
--Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton, Editor

Andrew Lamas Mark Wilensky
Executive Editor Managing Editor

FOUR JANUARY 30, 1975

The Admission Of Sense

As a result of admissions policy, the typical David-
son student, statistically speaking, is a white male,
from one of five southeastern states, and one who has
parents who earn over $20,000 annually. Further, he is
a member of one of three Protestant sects and plans
to become either a doctor or lawyer.

Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Ed-
munds White admits that Davidson caters to a group
of financially elite and that the student body is highly
homogenous.

While we are appreciative of Mr. White’s individual
efforts in determining admissions and financial aid
policy, we call for a change in the policy-making
process.

We question not so much the policies that have been
a in the past, but the method of policy making it-
self.

Faculty and students should be playing a primary
role in establishing admissions and financial aid
guidelines. The business of executing policy decisions
should be more equally distributed among all mem-
bers of the admissions and financial aid staff.

Desiring a more diverse and interesting student
body, we do question the basic issue of southeastern
regional dominance. We feel that the educational ex-
perience at Davidson would be enhanced by enrolling
a student body with a larger national base.

We urge the administration, faculty and SGA to
jointly devise a policy making system through which
admissions and financial aid issues can be fairly and
adequately treated: * ms

Disconcerted Audiences

The alleged harrassment of students and guests at
the Midwinters Saturday night dance by Davidson
policemen left a sour note in the ears of students
coming from the Dave Brubeck concert.

Many students were naturally apprehensive when
police attempted to ferret out non-Davidson students
from the private dance in Chambers Banquet Hall.

Such a crowd-thinning operation was obviously un-
necessary and particularly undesirable in respect to
the ill will incurred. The situation could have clearly
been avoided had the College Union Board been more
thorough in the planning and implementation of its
social program.

Granted, the newly-elected and organized Union
Board was faced with several last-minute crises
during their first big weekend program. The delay of
the Brubeck concert and the subsequent late starting
time for the dance upset a well-planned schedule.

Nonetheless, the situation could have been ef-
fectively handled had board members been prepared
to check identifications at the door of the dance im-
mediately following the concert. Their absence, and
the subsequent lack of tact displayed by the police for-
ce resulted in a tense, unsociable experience.

We hope this incident, in itseli minor, but
significant in the divisiveness it produced in the
college community, prompts the board to practice
more caution in implementing future programming.

If the College Union is to continue to open campus
activities to the general public, more definite policies.
must be set to ensure the privacy of restricted
gatherings. Even more important is the privacy of the
individuals participating.

- In particular, we urge the College Union Board to
reconsider its policy of hiring policemen to
‘“‘chaperone’”’ at dances and concerts. We suggest that
more effective audience conduct control could be ex-
ercised through student action. Such a move, we feel,
would not only save money, but save the potential in-
timidation and harrassment of non-student and staff
supervision of their own programs. .

Under no circumstances can we tolerate a repeat
performance of the Saturday night confusion in the
Banquet Hall. We feel confident that the new board
will make a concerted effort to avoid similar discord
during future activities.

Eric Walker

Catalytic Scribbler Awakens

Dormant, Unenergetic Writers

Writing at Davidson as a sub-
ject for discussion strikes my
ear like a parody of Women at
Yale-something __ ridiculously

mysterious, curious, and ex-

perimental.

And without the glamor of
females scrambling up Ivy
League covered walls.
Struggling writers wandering in
Piedmont fog and rain won’t
stir Topeka. Yet I have been
curious awhile.

Writing at Davidson means
discussing the curriculym, but
not how. it hopes to polish board
meeting prose. If you’re at
Davidson and want to write,
creatively, what can you do?

You surely can sweat it out on
your own, and if it ever gets
clicking that’s probably where
it will happen. But for com-
panionship, instruction, and
possible inspiration, where to
turn?

The English Department has
been careful to preserve op-
portunities for formal in-
struction in creative writing. In
only three of the past twenty-
five years has there been no
course offered in creative
writing.

In addition, students may
elect English 296, Independent
Study in Creative Writing, and
spend a term with one of a num-
ber of professors. In the current
term, 12 students are enrolled in
English 171, Advanced Writing,
while 11 students will be
working in English 296 in the
spring.

And others will bide their
time and scribble alone. The
only concrete obstacles in
creative writing, Davidson or
anywhere, are material tem-
poral. Where’s a pen, where’s
paper, and when is there time to
wrestle with oneself?

The Davidson curriculum
provides time for writing. And
as a bonus it supplies a chance
to discuss your work with prac-
ticed eyes and to hear what
other people are producing.

Opportunity exists; response
has been gained. Could more be
done?

I believe the writing program
at Davidson can: be prodded,
constructively rather than ac-
cusingly, because while op-
portunity exists, attraction does
not.

Writing at Davidson is
passive. Energy bursts out oc-
casionally, .in the: freshman
writing magazine: in courses,
in The Miscellany, and in a

sporadic gathering of writers,

both students and teachers, that
has been resurrected this year.

Too much energy burns
alone, untapped. Unwired. |

Tha tantalizing question is
whether or not a personality at
the core of a writing program
could be a fuse. Could a writer-
in-residence spark greater ac-
tivity?

The question immediately in-

volves claims of money and
work loads that trampel the
ideal attractiveness ot a
creative writer in our midst.
_ The Money Crunch slaps the
wrist of any writer who would
demand a padded recognition of
his talents from Davidson. Dr.
James S. Purcell, Chairman of
the English Department, com-
mented that a writer, compared
with other faculty in the depart-
ment, would ‘‘doubtless be the
most expensive and touch fewer
students.”

‘As the student body has in-
creased, pressure has been
placed on the English Depart-

‘ment to expand basic offerings
such as Freshman English. As
Dr. Purcell noted, ‘“‘we have
more yeomanry needs before
we take on a showpiece.”

Davidson’s formal writing
program is thus left tothe direc-
tion of the present staff. Stud-
ents: are able to work with
publishing writers on the
faculty. The current writing
course has been directed for
two years by Dr. P.B. Newman,
a publishing poet on the faculty
at Queens. Dr. Newman 1s on
campus once a week to work
with students who have been
moved to request the assis-
tance.

Is a writer on campus for a
term or a year merely aluxury?
Would he be a name chosen for
name alone?

I can’t say that this wouldn’t
be the case if a writer were
engaged. The campus and the
temperaments of writers are
volatile elements in a com-
pound (check John Updike’s
““Bech”’).

Yet a pool of energy exists
that could result in a few color-
ful explosions if a reasonable
catalyst could be found.

A reasonable catalyst would
be a writer with a modest price
tag who could fill curriculum
gaps in other areas such as con-
temporary literature. Whether
the creature exists I do not
know.

I am convinced that a writer
as a part of the community
could convey inspiration inways

Faculty Guest Column

beyond classroom critiques.
The power of personality works
strongly in a group of creative
temperaments.

The English Department has
a standing proposal before the
Academic Vice-President for
funds for a writer. However,
Dr. Purcell observed that to call
this request low priority might
be a bit of an exaggeration. The
Department is not actively
pushing the proposal.

Might I merely request that
eyes be kept open for writers
who could be attracted within
the demands of funds. As long
as feelers are extended and
possibilities investigated, then
the writing program can
proceed at its chosen pace. a

Writing at Davidson can be
drawn out from isolated en-
deavor into community ac-
tivity. Such a movement would
respond to real needs of a body
of students, grounds enough for
serious consideration.

A writer at Davidson could
bomb. Yet another could
perhaps provide the shoves that
are needed. It hasn’t been tried
and should be as money per-

~ mits.

The writer’s formidable
enemies will remain for solitary
combat, and a_ sluggish
curriculum is only an excuse. If
one wants to create time to
write, the opportunity does
exist, and perhaps that will
have to do for these rough and
tumble days of bullet biting.

Anxiety, Fear Cause
Scholastic Pressures

By E.F. PATTERSON
Professor of Economics

The discussion of the ‘‘pressure”’ on Davidson College students

has been on a highly superficial level. The discussion cannot move
to a more fundamental level and reach to the real causes until the
“‘pressure’’ is correctly identified as anxiety and fear.

On one level the anxiety and fear reflect the inability of higher
education to fulfill the role it performed successfully before World
War II. The best discussion of this role, the reasons for and con-

. sequences of its demise is Ch. 7 of David Hopgood’s, ‘“The, Screw-!

ing of the Average Man’? entitled, ‘Education: Catch-85. and the:
Arithmetic of the Diploma,’’ which every Davidson College stud-
ent, professor, and administrator shouldread.

Hapgood notes that ‘‘(before World War II) the college diploma
was a guarantee of entry into the favored class (i. e., the minority
who ‘‘end up in the black on net screwing’’)...(But) when the
average man appeared in droves on campus, after World War. II,
Bsvety presence in itselfdestroyed the promise held out to-himn by
college.

“The promise was that, since college graduates all get good jobs,
more college graduates would mean more people getting good jobs.
the fallacy in the promise is one of arithmetic. similar to the prin-
ciple of Catch-85, which dictates that all but 15 percent of us must
lose out on tax loopholes.

“Tf, in an unequal society like ours, there are 15 percent who end
up in the black on net screwing, there can never be room at the top
for more than 15 percent of the population--no matter how many go
to college. If only 15 percent go to college, thenthe system works,
ane nee with a diploma finds himself on the sunny side of the

eet.

“But if 30 percent get the diploma, only half of them can cash in
on its promise. The rest will be headed off at the pass.”’

This changed situation not only explains, in part, the anxiety and
fear of students, but also goes a long way toward explaining the
current reluctance of many professors to ‘‘give’’ C’s and D’s
(students are usually “‘given” grades; seldom. are grades ‘‘ear-
ned’’), a tendency which has been deplored by The Wall Street Jour-
nal as a ‘“‘lowering of standards.” “

There was a time when it seemed only ‘natural’ that grades
always fitted the normal probability curve--even if one had to make
them fit. It did not matter much, because such a small percentage
of the population went to college that even though the ‘‘C’”’ students
did not get in to the “best” graduate schols, everyone readily got in-
to a graduate school. Medical schools did not have hundreds of ap-
plications and controlling the supply of doctors was as easy as
falling off a log.

On a deeper and more fundamental level the anxiety and fear are
more important, even though the source cannot be recognized as

(See RE UL page 30 ae
