December 12, 1975

the davidsonian

Peeples, Perkins vie for Co-Curricular Chairman

T

Two run unoppsed for Union posts

By BRAD SWALWELL
Senior News Editor

Two candidates for College Union positions will
run unopposed in the December 16 elections,
according to Elections Council Chairwoman Ann
Garrou.

The race for Union President and Social Com-
mittee Chairman drew only one candidate each,
Junior Karl Goodhouse and Robert M. Mayer,
respectively. The only contested election will be
between Stephen M. Peeples and Marian L.
Perkins for Co-curricular Council Chairman.

Goodhouse said he sees a four-fold function for the
Union President.

“First, the president must coordinate all Union
programming. As president, I must be sure that
everybody on the Union Board knows how to
program and knows how to get resources to
program.

“Second, I see the president as a liason between
the Union and the college community. The president
must let the community know what is happening in
the Union.

“Also, the president must seek new ideas and
advise of the members of the community.

“Third, the president must work closely with
Shaw Smith (Director of the Union) to tap some of
his knowledge and put it to some use.

‘Last, and this is my personal goal, as president,
I must be an innovator. I will come up with a wild
idea and try it,” said Goodhouse.

Goodhouse

Goodhouse said he has been a member of the
Union Board for the last year and a half. He noted
that he has worked on the Union’s Speakers
Committee and the Union’s By-Laws Committee.

“Also, I did the symposium on human sexuality
on my own. That taught me a lot about
programming and got me interested in different
programming methods,” said Goodhouse.

Goodhouse indicated that he saw himself as
bringing a unique point of view to the Union.

“T have been active in a wide variety of campus
activities. I think this gives me a different view--a

more total view--of the Union than those people who

have worked only in the Union.”

Goodhouse outlined some of the problems he sees .

in the Union.

“The main problem is a lack of structure. This

lack of structure limits the Union’s effectiveness in
all that it does. A good structure will free the Union
Board from worrying about who has responsibility
for what. That way, we can get on with our job-
programming,” he said.

Goodhouse added that he did not think enough
planning had been done for the transition to the new
Union building.

PEEPLES

“It’s nobody’s fault in particular. But more plans
should have been made and a better structure set for
the new Union before we left the old one.

‘Along these same lines, I think we need to plan a
lot further ahead. The program for this year should
have been set last year. This year’s Board should be
programming next year’s activities.

“That way we can come out at the beginning of
the year with a schedule of the highlights for the
whole year. We can still add to that, but the main
events should already be planned,’’ said Goodhouse.

Goodhouse said he had plans for changes in the
operation of the Union. The first change he said he

will make is to give the Union more structure.

‘‘The Union lacks any formal statement of
structure. The relationship between individual union
staff members is unclear. The Union’s relationship
with the rest of the community is unclear.

‘The By-Laws Committee is about ready to
report-out. We will have some structure once the
by-laws are implemented,” said Goodhouse.

“I want to get faculty, staff, and administration
members on the Union Board. After all, we do have
a College Union, not a Student Union. We need to
involve all members of the community on the

. Board.

“Another thing I want to do is emphasize the
Union as a non-academic educational outlet. I want
to set things up so people have fun and learn what
they want the way they want.

‘‘T want more emphasis on the cultural side of
programming--things like Artist-in-Residence,
symphony,and ballet.

PERKINS

‘‘I want to have some symposia on topics of
current interest, like euthanaisa, abortion, the
E.R.A. and so forth. I want to get a good panel of
speakers here and let everybody pick the topic
apart,”’ said Goodhouse.

“All in all, I want the Union to offer a variety of
educational and social programs as a compliment to’
the academics here. The Union is not just a place for
dances, concerts, and movies.”

Union social chairman

“The only person who filed for the position of
Union Social Committee Chairman was Junior
Robert M. Mayer,’’ said Garreu.

Mayer currently holds the position of Social

Committee Chairman. The SGA Senate appointed —

Mayer chairman when former chairman Marc
Menchel resigned this past fall.

Mayer said tha he sees the main function of the
Social Committee Chairman as ‘providing
relaxation and entertainment for students.”
tion and entertainment for students.”

“The chairman must find the entertainment and
co-ordinate that entertainment on campus.

“Also, the chairman must help others provide
entertainment. We can help groups like Patterson

” Court and dorm halls. bring entertainment to

campus,’’ said Mayer. ‘‘This function has been
neglected in the past.”’

Mayer said he thought he was qualified for the
position because he has done the work of the
Chairman for the past three months.

“I started out in the Union several years ago
working with the Coffeehouse Circuit.

‘Then, when Menchel disappeared, I was the only
qualified person who would do the job,” he said.

Mayer said he saw the main problem in the Union
as ‘‘problems with the interaction of students with
Union staff members. __

‘The problem exists because the relationship
between students and union staff members has
never been defined. The relationship has never been
defined because of resistance by certain people to
defining it,’’ said Mayer.

Mayer also said that the union suffered from lack
of publicity. ‘Students don’t know what’s going on
in the union and how things are done,” he said.

Mayer indicated that he thought changes were
necessary in the way the union operated.

‘The By-Laws Committee has met several times
and should soon have a set of by-laws to govern
union operations.

‘Also, the committee structure of the union has”
been tightened up. This should result in better
co-ordination of entertainment on campus,’’ said
Mayer.

Co-curricular chairman

The race for Co-Curricular Chairman drew two
candidates. Stephen M. Peeples and Marian L.
Perkins, both juniors, filed for the position.

Peeples said he saw the main function of the
Co-curricular Chairman as programming.

“The chairman must be able to initiate action on
anything not covered by the Social Committee.

“This includes speakers, poetry, the art gallery,
and cultural events.

“T would like to see a thematic co-ordination of
this programming,’’ said Peeples.

Peeples said that he was qualified for the job of
co-ordinating co-curricular programming.

“I think I’m pretty good at co-ordination and
getting along with other people. I’ve had some
exprience co-ordinating committees.

“I’m running because I have some new ideas. I
think Pat Hudson (present Co-curricular Committee
Chairman) has done a good job. I want to take some
of his ideas and carry them further,” said Peeples.

Peeples said that he thought the major problem

" with the operation of the Union was the overlapping

committee structure.

““We really need to streamline our committees. We
can get more work done with more people on fewer
committees,” he said.

Peeples indicated that he wanted to draw more on
student talent than has been the case in the past.

“There are a lot of talented people right here and I
want to use them in Union programming,” said
Peeples.

Perkins said she saw the main function of the
Co-curricular Chairman as coordinating the nine
co-curricular committees.

“The chairman must see that events are
sponsored to provide cultural outlets for students.
In a sense, these programs compliment regular
courses,’’ said Perkins.

“Naturally, the chairman will have various duties ©
to perform, like the ones which will be listed in the
new By-Laws.

: “But the main thing is that the chairman must be
sensitive to student wants. As chairman, I don’t
program what I personally want, but what the
students want,’’ she said.

Perkins said she was running because she thinks
she “‘can do a lot of things in one week that it takes
the Board three weeks to do.”

“I’m not a member of the Union Board, but I
attend the meetings. I’ve become very frustrated
with the Union Board and the way they program, or
don’t program, as the case may be,”’ she said.

Stop the fighting

Perkins thought there were two main problems
with the way the Union has been run.

“There is too much disorganization. Things need
to be planned better.

“Also, there is too much fighting with Shaw
Smith. You can’t fight with Shaw and run an effect-
tive union. You have to work with the professionals
hired to run the Union,” said Perkins.

Perkins said she thought the structure ‘of the
Union needed to be tightened up and stated
explicitly.

“Karl Goodhouse, who will be the new Union
President, has some ideas for change in this area. I
agree with Karl on these changes.

“Also, the Board meetings drag on too long. It is
not necessary for each committee to report each
week. Some committees do not meet each week.

“I think these changes will help to remove the
apathy of some people on the Union Board
Executive Council, the Union Board itself, and the
committees.

“If we can change the attitudes of these people,
we can do a better job,” said Perkins.
