a
Faculty secrecy:
Promoting student

the davidsonian

November 14, 1975

ignorance

The faculty vote this week disallowing extended studies
courses to be used to fulfill area requirements calls attention
to unprofessional and irresponsible means of conducting

faculty business.

* Faculty members maintained that their vote upheld policy
set in a faculty meeting in March, 1970. Because the faculty
has insisted upon keeping its meetings as well as official
minutes closed to other members of the college community,
academic policies can be set without the knowledge of
students who must abide by them. Such procedures for
conducting business are not only unjust, but entirely

unnecessary. °

aya <

. (el yy

We call for an immediate examination of the minutes of the :
meetings to insure that all policy statements are recorded inthe To the Editor:

college registry. Secondly, we call upon the faculty to open the
minutes of their meetings to the public. Because academic
policy is set by the faculty, the policy statement and records of
the proceedings must be available to the entire college

community.

Present means of operation seem not only to invite students
to examine the minutes, but require them to do so if they are to
know what policies they are to abide by. The secrecy which
now surrounds faculty meetings simply promotes ignorance
on the part of students in regard to academic regulations. We
would think that the “promotion of ignorance” runs contrary to

the purpose of the faculty.

We urge the faculty to clear the records immediately.

The Puritans banned all fictional
literature becayse to them it was
composed only 6f lies.

What they failed to appreciate is
that there is more than one kind of
truth. Good literature conveys a level
of truth about men, what they are and
what they believe, which often cannot
be said in any other way. And so it is
with good drama.

There were historical inaccuracies
in the ‘‘Wilson’’ production. The
playwright was aware of them all. The
director and cast were aware of them.

The inaccuracies did not bother us

‘ because we were more concerned with

the davidsonian

“The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in

the image.’’--Kenneth Boulding

WietnADGRIOMN 5 ies os oes Ohi ns ee har eee
FUGA PS ol 1 ROR OAC ie arms er oe I rrr Business sibnacer
Managing Editors
Executive Editor

Larry Mimms, Gordon Widenhouse ........

MEMMOWAGOVMNOLON 6. of ol ced Fda eee
PMI WHEAINAS © 606) ihre bea jue head Senior News Editor
EGON VONEDIC Fins osc ee Vie de ae Photography Editor
CUMING ys. bce ooh hc is ee
DEVIC NURS ci ut iva en ce bao Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of
Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C., 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian.
Box 218. Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

Sports Editor

communicating a larger message: a
sense of what the man Wilson was
and believed. |

This I think we tried to do with an
uncompromising fidelity, while at the
same time accepting the limits of time
and medium.

But when performing in an aca-
demic community, criticism regard-
ing the historical inaccuracies is to be
expected. ;

Bill Link’s review of the play which
appeared last week was perceptive
and helpful in spots, but was unclear
as to exactly where he stood.

It did make me suspect, however,
that there is a Puritan or two back
there in the Link lineage somewhere.

Rick Roylance '76

Davidson College

Questioning responsibilities

(Continued from page 1)

TY

More significant, however, is the fact that the
majority of Davidson women do not really know
what femininity is..One woman’s response to the
question was, ‘‘Oh Lordy gracious me alive!’’ She
sums up the confusion many feel inside. Others
responded with similar attitudes. ‘“‘I don’t know.
It’s a fight in my own mind.” ‘‘I don’t know, but I
know what it is not feminine.’’ ‘‘Femininity is the
opposite of masculinity. I don’t know though.”
“Nothing comes to mind.”

The Davidson woman no longer fits into
society's mold which has told her that, as Dr.
Horner says, ‘‘It isn’t lady-like to be too
intelligent.” On the other hand she wants to fit into
that role and feels slightly guilty, slightly
abnormal if she does not.

Horner says that the intelligent woman feels
that “if she fails, she is not living up to her own
standards of performance; if she succeeds she is not
living /up to societal expectations about the female
role.” |

*\We have been robbed of our femininity,’’ said
one Davidson woman. ‘We no longer know what
femininity is.’’ ‘‘True femininity,” as one woman
put it, ‘isn’t outward. It is being in touch with
what you are. It is an essential part of human

personal development. It is what makes one
unique.’

It can be the acceptance of oneself as an
individual who happens to be female; womanhood
is just as essential a characteristic as eye color.
This acceptance naturally reflects itself in a
person’s outward appearance. One woman stated
simply that, ‘‘Femininity is first being a person
and second having a certain air about you that
there’s no question in anyone's mind that you are a
woman...and that’s special.’’

One manifestation of the ‘‘femininity crisis’’ is
women’s feelings about competition. Most of the
women interviewed admitted that they compete
more easily with women than with men. They feel
freer to be aggressive in a group of women than
they do in a group of men.

“We've all been socialized to be less aggressive.
Sometimes I just give in.’’ ‘'] sometimes play
dumber than I am...but I don’t like it.” Some feel
that while they are very competitive, they don’t
like to be.

(See' WOMEN page 12)

Letters to the Editor

Roylance questions
puritanical criticisms

To the Editor:

Little did I know how accomoda-
ting people are at Davidson.

My note of ‘‘thanks’’ for the right
to be nauseated was answered, as if
religiously, by the seemingly miracu-
lous appearance of yet a second
dumpster between Richards and Bai-
ley, placed so that the shortest
distance to get to the Patterson Court
path is to walk between the two.

Doesn't that just tickle your in-
sides? It sure tickles mine, almost
enough to cause it to eject the meal I
have just eaten.

I can think of only two reasons for
this addition of insult to injury.
Either whoever is in charge of the
dumpsters doesn’t read The David-
sonian or he just doesn’t give a damn.
Either reason is pretty sad.

Is it too much to ask, to not have to
be made nauseous four times a day
with no reason? Even Ron Scott, who
benefits the most by their position,
wants to see them moved.

The placing of the dumpsters as

they are not is not only unnecessary

and unsanitary, but downright asin-

ine. James Koloditch ’76

Davidson College
To the Editor:

It shouldn’t really surprise any-
body that the Davidson coeds won
that debate tournament recently.

After all, it would be harder to find
a bunch of people who can talk so
much without really saying any-
thing—which is what debating is all
about. I know of several that get in
enough practice just in the library to
prepare for the national champion-
ship.

I think that in recognition of this
achievement the rest of the college
ought to take up a collection to send
as many of them as possible to the
International Forensics Conference in
Nairobi.

Not only would it bring the college
a lot of recognition, but it would sure
make things a lot nicer for everybody

that’s left.
Hilton Oliver ’77 |
Davidson College

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits
letters to the editor on any
subject. All letters for pub-
lication must be typed and
signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 300
words in length. Bea |

‘Letters received in The
Davidsonian offices by
Sunday night will ordinarily
be printed that week.

