October 3, 1975

the davidsonian

Dean's discretion usurps
student responsibilities

Disciplinary procedures taken against criminals |
prompts examination of Student Hearing Committee

By BILL BOND
Associate Editor

An incident occurred at Davidson
College last spring that pointed to
obvious flaws in the Code of Re-
sponsibility and the Code of Discipli-
nary Procedure, and perhaps set
dangerous precedent in the handling
of certain types of violations.

For those of you who were not
around, five Davidson students were
busted for pot by Mecklenburg Coun-
ty Police right before exams. Judg-
ment was rendered by the courts on
the Thursday before graduation, lea-
ving all with police records, fines, and
court costs to cover besides.

Media coverage

The incident was eagerly grabbed
by the local media since two of the
people involved were basketball pla-
yers. Needless to say, First Chambers
reacted like the proverbial parents
whose daughter has announced a
pregnancy caused by one of several
football teams. ‘‘My God! What will
everyone think?”

To a point, such a reaction is not
only natural but necessary since
Davidson as a private institution of

higher learning depends heavily upon

its reputation for both the type of
student who will apply and also for\
the contributions that will be made to

the college.

In this case, however, more care
should have been showed for the
students involved by simply handling
the matter differently.

On the Monday following gradu-
ation, Dean of Students Will Terry

Letter to the Editor

handed down suspensions to all
involved for one term. He had the
legal right to handle the matter
himself since the matter was a
criminal case. The questions at this
point are why he elected to do so and
whether he could hand down an
unbiased decision.

Take a look at the copy of the Code
of Regulations you keep handy next
to your bed along with the latest copy
of The Davidsonian (otherwise, go by
the Dean’s office for one).

On page eleven, there is the listing
of what options are available to all
concerned in criminal cases. Section
III C, 4, c states “If the criminal
proceedings results in conviction plea
of guilty or nolo contendere, the Dean
may in his discretion defer the matter
for imposition of a disciplinary sanc-
tion to the Student Hearing Comm-

* ittee or may himself impose a sanction

after administrative hearing.”
Answering adverse publicity

Why did Terry, decide to hold the
case in his office instead of referring it
to the Hearing Committee? Apparen-
tly, it all boils down to an attempt to
answer the adverse publicity associ-
ated with the case.

According to Terry, he felt that
“the college needed to make a
statement.’’ He did not feel that he
could trust the Hearing Committee to
make that statement and says that
several people told him that it would
be in the best interests of Davidson if
he handled the case himself.

The fact that Terry heard and
perhaps asked for input concerning

the case seems praiseworthy at first.

But consider how impossible. this
would make it for the Dean to make

an unbiased decision, a type of
decision the Code cf Disciplinary
Procedure attempts to promote and
insure.

Leniency

Terry cites two reasons for not
using the Hearing Committee: (1) the
decision had to be made then, and
school was out; (2) the committee
might have been too lenient.

As to the first reason, if the
committee had been alerted to the
possibility of hearing the matter,
those involved, in all probability,
could have been present and ready in
case a quick decision was made by the
courts, as was the case. Concerning
the second point, so what?

Davidson claims to function under
an honor system, with a Code of
Responsibility. If these are to be a
significant part of life here at the
ivory tower, that honor and responsi-
bility must be imposed upon students
by the students themselves, not by
First Chambers or even the Board of
Trustees.

Davidson students should be disci-
plining Davidson students in cases
that the accused (or in this case, the
guilty) ask for such action. This
opti hich exists in honor cases is
missing in matters of criminal cases.
It should be put in by the Student
Conduct Council. The Hearing Com-
mittee might have been easy on the
offenders or more severe. Unfortun-
ately, we’ll never get to know.

Baskins adds postscript
to Boyce hyperbole

As you intended and pointed out,
Richard, your criticism of Davidson is
colored with a paint of exageration, a
brush of generalities. Beach music does.
not stifle altruism; fraternities and

- beer drinking do not, ipso facto, breed
selfishness; nor do eco majors (of which
I am one) and pre-med majors (of which
you are one) necessarily metamorphose
into self-serving rats in a rat race. I
know that, and you know that.

‘However, your use of hyperbole
helps make your point, which, I'm
afraid, is legit. Davidson has formed a
rut, and either by active choice or by
following the path. of least resistance,
tnany of its students have fallen into
that rut. Capable, perhaps evédn bril-
liant, these students fight primarily
personal, academic battles they hope
will eventually lift them out of the
darkened rut and into the bright light
of personal success. Conscientious and

responsible, they are too often con-
scious of and responsible to only
themselves.

Richard, like you, I have enjoyed
many rewarding experiences and rela-
tionships since I entered Davidson two
years ago. However, also like you, I
was somewhat disillusioned by David-
son during my freshman year. Remem-
bering the altruism our college prede-
cessors supposedly had five to ten
years ago, I expected a collective social
concern within my own college.

Like yours, however, my own naive-
te was soon punctured, and I tumbled
into the rut of near total academic
involvement and selfishness at perhaps
its deepest part.

But roomie, I'd like to add a short
postscript to your observations. You
say that you do not expect any change.
Indeed, you may be entirely realistic.
You and I and the rest of the Class of

1977 may very well graduate two years
hence from a Davidson College hardly |
discernible from the Davidson College
that disillusioned us two years ago.

My point, however, is this: although |

ol’ DC may remain constant forever
after, it doesn’t have to. This place can
be changed, and so can the rut it has
formed. For those who are willing,
many constructive, selfless opportuni-
ties are available. Participating in
STEP “tutoring”, assisting the North
Carolina PIRG program, or just being
kind to one’s fellow students are-only a
few of the possibilities.

Altruism at Davidson is not dead,
but itd health will be weak so long as so
many of us remain satisfied with the
rut of selfishness. We can deny it if we
want, but the choice is ours. No one
threw us into the rut. We stepped into

it ourselves, and it is up to us to crawl
out.

Bo Baskin ’77

Davidson College

When Dean Terry’s sanction was
appealed to the Review Board (made
up of three faculty members and two
students) it nearly convened without
the students on the board. It appears
that neither member was contacted
and the one who was present was
there simply because he was passing
through town. This, too, is legal as
the code states that only a quorum
(three) is necessary for the board to
make a decision.

This is not an attempt to open an
alfeady closed case, but it is an
attempt to make sure that student
rights are protected not only accor-
ding to the Code of Disciplinary
Procedure, but according to that code
and the following changes that are
necessary in cases involving criminal
proceedings, and which should be
immediately placed in the Code by the
Student Conduct Council.

_Needed changes

1. The student involved should
have the option of sanction being
handed down by peers or the Dean in
criminal cases, in which the student
has admitted guilt, has been found
guilty in criminal court or pleads nolo
contendere.

2. In cases in which it appears that
the criminal proceedings will not be
initiated, or, though initiated, are
being unduly delayed by the person
charged, according to the judgment of
the Dean of Students, the case will be
turned over to the Hearing Com-
mittee.

3. The Review Board shall not be
able to review a sanction without one
student on the board being present, in |
person or by student proxy. .

4. Provisions should be made for a
specific order of procedure for the
Hearing Committee in cases in which
the student admits guilt, is found
guilty, or pleads nolo contendere. *

Precedent set -

These changes should be put into
writing now inasmuch as precedent
has beerkset. The Dean’s office will be
open to attack for being too lenient in
such cases in the future if he decides
to give the case to the Hearing
Committee, particularly if the sanc-
tion imposed is less severe than a
term’s suspension.

Hopefully, such cases will not
occur, but decisions should be made
now so that if they do happen,
students take the responsibility which
they are forced to pledge to take when
they enter the college. The decision of
sanctions is too important a|/matter to .
be subject to public pressure,. either
upon the Hearing Committee or the
Dean of Students.

I feel that the Dean’s office has
shown that it cannot, perhaps by
definition, remain ‘‘above it all’. It is
now time for the students to perma-
nently take that responsibility.
