the davidsonian

April 2, 1976

6

Externs meet ‘real world’ problems

By PATRICIA McMURRAY
Staff Writer

How relative is a college education
to your career? Isn’t the classroom
experience somewhat of a sheltered
exposure to the profession to which
you may be dedicating your life?
These questions are not unusual ones
for the college student, especially at
Davidson today.

More than ever before, there seems
to be a need to experience the ‘‘world
of work.” The increased involvement
in service projects, internships and
off-campus experiences set up
through the Office for Experiential
Programs is a strong indication that
many Davidson students are inter-
ested in the ‘‘real world.’’ The Office
for Experiential Programs is offering
still another opportunity: the Spring
Extern Program.

The purpose of the Extern Program
is to give students a chance to
experience a particular professional
environment during Spring break.
Ken Wood has said that the program
is designed ‘‘to get Davidson students
out into the world and experience
different careers so that they might
see what it’s like. On a campus such
as Davidson’s that has a strong

Chris tian pioneers

Ci

emphasis on the liberal arts it is
especially importarit that a student
learn the world’s vocabulary.”

The Extern Program was first
organized last spring; there were 21
students and alumni indicated, that
there were 33 students involved this
year. The only change that o¢cured
between the two years was that,
whereas originally the programs were
organized exclusively with alumni
contacts, new associations were made
this past spring with professionals
other than alumni.

To organize an Extern for the
Spring break. A student must have a
specific career and location in mind.
He or she should sign up in the Office
for Experiential Programs no later
than December so that there is ample
time to correspond and get aquainted
with the sponsor. An alunmnus or
friend of the college becomes a
sponsor when he or she agrees to
accept a student for the week of
March 1-5. The student ordinarily
arranges his own room, board and
travel expenses.

The «plans for the week’s involve-
ment are varied and different in each
program. Gil Cuthbertson, for in-
stance, is a premedicine major who
stayed with a pediatrician in Winston

C

oa

| Rees | ®)

By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

Volume has always been a problem
with the guitar. Though it is a
tremendously sensitive instrument, it
isn’t very loud. Thus, its place in jazz
was largely restricted to the rhythm
section during the years prior to the
late 1930’s. Even in a small ensemble,
an acoustic guitar could simply not
compete in a unison passage with,
say, a trumpet or a saxophone. And
in the “‘big band” context that was
popular during the Thirties, a guitar
solo was next to impossible.

Finally, the electric amplified gui-
tar as we more or less know it today
was developed, and a man came along
who perceived the significance of this
technological advance; his name was
Charlie Christian, and he knew what
could and should be done with it.

Yet the name Charlie Christian
doesn’t mean much to most people
today. Aside from jazz buffs, few
people can tell you who he was, much
less what he did. But though he died
in 1942 at the age of 24, he made a
tremendous impact on the art of
guitar-playing and the field of jazz as
a whole.

Christian was raised in Oklahoma,
a hotbed for Negro jazz talent during
the Twenties and Thirties. Yet as
Ralph Ellison pointed out in the
Saturday Review in 1958, many of
jazz’s most talented creators re-
mained local figures known only to
small-town dance halls, and their
reputations were limited to the radius
of a few hundred miles.

Christian might have wound up the
same way had it not been for John
Hammond, a wealthy young jazz
patron and ‘‘discoverer’’ of many
talented black musicians, including
Count Basie and Billie Holiday.

Hammond heard Christian in 1939
and passed the word along to Benny
Goodman. Upon hearing Christian

himself, Goodman realized his latent
talent and brought him to New York

to record with the Benny Goodman

Orchestra and Sextet.

Here his prior regional fame ex-
panded quickly into a natignal fame
as his exciting melodic and harmonic
conceptions confronted jazz fans with
a sound they had never heard before.
Yet it is ironic that, despite ‘the
critical acclaim, no one ever gave
Charlie his own recording date.

According to the album notes, the
twenty-five selections in this two-
record set come close to equaling his
total recorded output; almost all of
them come from recordings made with
the Goodman orchestra or sextet.

Conceptually, Christian was way
ahead of his time. His long, clean
eighth note passages punctuated by
harmonic extensions and alterations,
his rhythmic drive, his instinctive
sense of balance, and his unpredict-
able treatment of the blues make him
one of the major influencers and
precursors of the bebop movement.

His Seven Come Eleven on Side
One is an excellent example of the
way Charlie constructs a solo. He
develops tension by a series of riffs
through the first, sixteen bars, then

Salem for his Extern program. For
two days Gil made rounds with the
doctor in the morning and watched
him examine patients in the afternoon
on other days. He was also able to
attend a few lectures and classes at
the Bowman-Grey Medical School as
well as visit a laboratory that
analyzed pathological diseases.

Gil immersed himself in many
different aspects of the medical
profession. He feels that ‘‘this experi-
ence was beneficial in that it gave me
insight into the nitty-gritty of pedia-
trics. I learned what it means to relate
to children and their problems.”’

There were others who worked with
lawyers, businessmen, the city
government, radio stations, the Sal-

vation Army, banks, aerobics re-
search, etc. The arrangements bet-
ween the students and sponsors
ranged from observing the different
operations of a profession to working
on a project that would enable the
student to experience different as-
pects of the career.

There are several important things
to remember when participating in an
Extern according to Ken Wood. Most
important of these is that you should
know what your expectations from
the experience are and do as much as
you can to fulfill these. The program '
is a learning experience and the more
involved one gets the more there is to
learn. Therefore, when organizing an
Extern plan give as much as you can.

BROWN TROUT by Neil Welliver, Purchase

-Leon Venable

Award winner in the 1976 Davidson National.

jazz guitar solos

provides contrast by playing relax-
ing, melodic eighth notes, then re-
turns to the series of riffs, thus giving
his solo contour and movement.

The first three songs on Side Two, J
Got Rhythm, Stardust, and Tea for
Two, are labeled as by the ‘‘Charlie
Christian Quintet’’. Issued here for
the first time on records, they were
privately cut in a Minneapolis night
club by a disc jockey. Although the
technical quality is decidely inferior to
the commercial recordings, the takes
are by far the best performance by
Christian on the entire album. Here
Christian is given time to stretch out
and fully develop his solos.

In I Got Rhythm, he uses riffs and

pauses to intersperse an otherwise.

fluid eighth-note solo. Charlie’s solo
on this ‘take is the longest of the
album, and his playing is extraor-
dinary.-in the second of these tunes,
Stardust, Charlie punctuates his solo
with many strong chords of a minor

flavor, providing excellent contrast.’ ’

He makes use of one of his favorite
techniques, syncopation, which helps
emphasize even more his fluid eighth
note passages. The tenor sax solo by
Jerry Jerome is also first-rate.

In Tea for Two, Christian displays
very quick fingers while fluidly run-
ning up and down the scale.-Many of
the intervals he uses (he considered no
interval ‘‘wrong’’) sound strange, but
are nonetheless exciting.

Side Three contains a real treat, for
in addition to Christian’s fine playing,
the incomparable Count Basie is
featured with the sextet; his unas-
suming yet unmistakeable style per-
vades throughout the side. Cootie
Williams gives a superb performance
on trumpet, and provides effective
contrast to the solos of Basie,
Goodman, and Christian.

On Side Four, the tune Breakfast
Feud gives Christian a chance to
reveal his rhythmic resourcefulness.
In the first of three solos in the song,
Christian shifts the metric accent
from the normally strong first beat to

the secondary third beat, thereby
creating the illusion that he is start-
ing his phrase on a pick-up from the
previous chorus, when in actuality he
is starting on the first beat of the
chorus. In addition, he molds the
contour of his phrasing so that the
melodic peaks also occur on accented
third beats.

Blues in B and Waitin’ for Benny
are taken from a warm-up session
made when members of the Benny
Goodman Sextet awaited a late
arrival of its leader. The musicians
were jamming for their own pleasure,
and these refreshingly spontaneous
tunes were the result. Blyes in B (an
unusual, difficult key for blues to be
played in) is the best example on the
entire album of Charlie’s ability to
play basic, down-home blues.

In Waiting for Benny, Charlie
builds simple riffs, one leading into
another, until he comes to the riff
statement in A Smo-o-oth One. He
then riffs behind Cootie Williams’
trumpet while Cootie gives an excel-
lent free-wheeling, jamming solo.

Finally, Solo Flight demonstrates
most emphatically how the voice of
the jazz electric guitar can fit into a
showpiece provided by a big band
with no strain at all. Christian does
not attempt to compete against the
volume and power of Goodman’s
orchestra, but rather rides the crests
of the waves.

Charlie Christian’s style has since
been so imitated by guitar players
that his music may not seem very
innovative today. But the melodic
and harmonic conceptions that he
experimented with back in the Forties
had never been tried before, and this
must be kept in mind when listening
to the album.

As Ralph Ellison puts it: ‘‘With
Christian the guitar found its jazz
voice. With his entry into the jazz
circles his musical intelligence was
able to exert its influence upon his
peers and to affect the course of the
future development of jazz.”
