the davidsonian _

December 3, 1976

6-

By ANDREW LAMAS
Staff Writer

The following items are all eminent-
ly worth of student consideration and
support. They are presently in this
form so that football players, mem-
bers of Phi Delta Theta, and all other
speices of nonintelligent beings on the
Davidson campus may read and
understand them.

First, swine flu shots. No, this is
not a Communist plot. There is no
concrete information which leads us
to the conclusion that the swine flue
vaccine will react with fluoride in the
water supply and cause a slow and
painful death. We realize that the
John Birch society has been warning
us for years about the dangers of
‘‘creeping Communism’’, but they
warned us about the dangers of
integration, also. Since there has been
no epidemic of rabies following the

admittance of blacks to Davidson, we
can conclude that the John Birchers
are probably wrong about this one,
too.
Second, the SGA, Everyone needs
to support them. It’s true that they
can’t even run an election, that
nobody on campus even cares who is
in the Senate, and that their rank in
the powers structure of Davidson is
only one notch above Bo Brickels’,
but they do try hard. Bo Baskin is a
nice guy, and it’s easy enough to
ignore that Pepsodent-white smile
when you know it is an uncontrollable
nervous reaction to a sexual inade-
quacy he feels. Just humor him, and
he won’t bother you long.

Third, the KA’s. Some of them are
really decent fellows. Sure, they are
all bigots, and they get their kicks
screaming racial slurs at blacks on
opposing basketball teams, but deep
in their hearts they mean well. One ot
them was even heard saying the other

Run for office...
Run for glory!!!

Air vrai buddy shut run floor a fish. The a fish of onion bored
press-l-dent isn’t-can’t-tested. Issue are shed be can’t tested.
SGA press-I-dent reek choirs a space ulper son. Their’s hood
been lots off yolks running fort he’s a fishes. Stewed dents
deeper hive them shelves off a grate ax pair-I-inch wind day
donut run: Owl’s hole, id sheens the hat the a fishes wooled
bee batter field buy purse ons hoof one can’t tested elections.
Dim rock | see inaction shoe dud bee odd served. Toga et
Thebes est peep hole, dim rock | see mush bee odd served.

Everybody should run for office. The office of Union Board
President is uncontested. It sure should be contested. SGA
President requires a special person. There should be lots of
folks running for these offices. Students deprive themselves of
a great experience when they do not run. Also, it seems that
the offices would be better filled by persons who have won
contested elections. Democracy in action should be observed.
To get the best people, democracy must be observed.

PatriGlatiGarsticcs cased oc
Larry, Moe &Curly........; at
RomGaliela .3.- 3k es lees

Cecil B. DeMille

' Clark Kent
Tank McNamara & Gil Thorpe

PEUITY IGIIO ss sicsc usa eee oc
Hee MIRO VS) id gee cc hee wt
SHIKOAGNOWE. 265.0 ates

Hunter S. Thompson .........

PE WORN ir ae Phere Mar eV rE Editor
Piast ae Business Managers
pace ec enecarees Photography Editor
icaceitaea ie Production Manager
RAPA Editorial Page Editor
rey We News Editor
Newel ganas Mee Sports Editors
ny ects eae Features Editor
enc Circulation Manager
Ee Ane Advertising Manager

Contributors: Alfred E. Newman, Jack Doff, Ben Dover, Hugh
Suct, Chuck Colson, Haldemanerlichmanmitchelldean’n-
liddy, Maxine Polly, The Green Hornet & Cato, Alley Oop, Kar!
Marx, Bozo, Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars, Jerry
Garcia & Charlie’s Angels, Pat M. Baskin, and Jerry Mathers as
the Beaver.

Published when we damn well please by the solipistic,
self-appointed few of Davidson College. No postage paid,
ever. Blow all correspondence out your shorts. Yearly
subscription rate: $27 million.

a ae,

day, ‘‘There’s nothing wrong with
blacks.’’ Of course, he followed it up
with, ‘“Everybody ought to own one
or two.’’ If you just leave them alone,
they’ll continue on with their merry
task of trying to catch up to the
SAE’s. :

Fourth, Will Terry. Everybody
knows he’s bald, getting fat, and uses
students to tend bar at his parties

leserve student support —

under the threat of ‘‘You’ll never be a
hall counselor if you don’t,’’ but
basically Ke’s a good guy. It’s not his
fault that he’s Sam Spencer’’s lackey.

So, support all of these causes and
everything will be fine. Just console
yourself with Alexander Pope’s philo-
sophy that ‘‘there must be some
temporary evil in the world to make
the good look better.”

Letters to the Editor

Bobbitt bops commies

To the Editor:

I would just like to say a few things
about the recent controversy in your
newspaper involving your editor and
that religion professor. It seems like
nobody has decided nothing despite
the fact that there was two long
articles written recently.

First, McKelway is probably a
Communist, pinko fag. Anybody that
puts more faith in the power of
religion than the power of a working
man’s shotgun has got to be a
Communist. And if he wants to find
out who really has more power, then
wait until the Commies invade us.
While he’s down on his knees prayin’,
I’ll be killin’ me some Gooks.

Second, Mr. Martin has done a lot
of good things since he got elected.

He voted to increase the defense
budget so that we’ll always have more
planes, bombs, and missiles than the
Communists. He wants to decrease
welfare payments so that all those
folks driving welfare Cadillacs will
have to get out and get a job instead
of living off us hard-working folks.
Third, Davidson is getting too
liberal “anyway. I hear that they let
girls in the boys’ dormitories any-
time, day or night. And one of those
fraternities is always wearing fancy
clothes and having beer-drinking
parties.
I sure hope everything gets
straightened out soon.
Jesse Roy Bobbitt ’35
Lizard Lick, N.C.

Martin and McKelway

exchange compliments

Dear Editor:
Know how many Davidson profes-
sors it takes to make popcorn?
26.
One to hold the pan and 25 to shake
the’ stove.
Jim Martin

Congressman (still, nyahhh!],

Dear Editor:

Know how many Jim Martins it
takes to vote ‘‘No’’?

51.
One to hold the pen and 50 to move
the paper. Alexander McKelway

Professor of Religion
