January 16, 1 976

the davidsonian

vé

ouvavinsositaeee © AIGHT SONG AND ALMA MATER

Words by E.H Hamilton ’17
Music by B. Earnest Shields ’20

Oh Davidson, you are the best
old college in the east or west.

You play a fair game,
you play a square game,
and you'll win in everyting.

And when that red and black machine
is out to fight and looking mean,
then I am happy as for you I sing:

[Chorus]

Oh Davidson, we will down them;

down them every one!

Oh Davidson, we will conquer
ere the day is done. RAH! RAH! RAH!

Down every foe, then as through their lines we run-
Win for the honor of old Davidson!

Walters ca

By BARBARA PAYNE
Staff Writer

“I feel that most of my pictures are
people oriented. Included are other
elements which are of visual beauty,
but primarily I enjoy the results of
being involved with people, whether
they are of contrivance or ‘slice of
life’.” --Tom Walters

Thomas Walters demonstrates a
warm and deep understanding of
human concern. His photographs, on
exhibit in the Cunningham Fine Arts
Center through January 28, firmly
grasp and immortalize the reality of
human experience.

All of Walters’ subjects implicate
the familiar, communicating tangible
emotion. Memory becomes the media
and camera becomes the vehicle of
capture of an instant of manipulation.

Walters frequently focuses on im-
perfection in man and in his natural
surroundings, shown particularly well
in his tree studies. The trees are old,
gnarled and scarred. One tree sup-
ports its own dead limb, seemingly

favoring it above all other limbs while -

growing acutely aware of its burden.

At the foot of the tree lie new -

growths—possibly offspring—which
flourish under its protective branches.
Idiosyncracies of nature become con-
tiguous to human failings.

Walters’ portraits are both natural
and flattering. An exceptionally fine
portrait is of an older man of scholarly
characteristics, reflected in his wis-
ened and perhaps saddened eyes.

Creases of worry, toil and smiles
are permanently etched onto his face.
His expression is ambiguous (a
predominant quality in all of Walters’
portraits), vacillating between a mou-
rnful, angry and judicious stare and

~an affectionate and unassuming gaze.

Many of Walters’ photographs are
pedagogical in nature, drawing mun-
dane analogies and drawing attention’
to small but important facets of day
to day living. His approach seems
similar to that of Horation satire, and
we chuckle at the recognition of our
own foibles.

A woman bedecked in formal dress .
finds her reflection in a window and
pats down a few loose hairs— unaware
that she is being observed through
that very window. A Siamese kitten

perched atop a pedestal apears to be
eyeing a dead rat caught in a Victor '
mouse trap in a neighboring picture.

The kitten’s work is obviously cut out
for him.

One very striking photograph is
that of a Duke Power Employee
caught in torrential rain, seemingly

TOM WALTER'S STU

enjoying his predicament. Depicted is
a man who has ensnared the power of
water, but a man who also thoroughly
understands and. stands in awe of its
natural force. \

An elderly man, ensconced com-
fortably in a rocking chair on a
Victorian porch, emits a sense of pride
and contentment. An American flag
dominates the photograph. Adjacent

to this happy scene is a young man

wrapped in the flag, which forms a
cocoon about him. He struggles in
suppressive environment.

vain to set himself free from his

DY in contrast, a Siamese cat

ALL HAIL, OH DAVIDSON [Alma Mater]
G.M.Maxwell, M.C.

. arranged by James C. Pfohl

Leon Venable
Inanimate subjects also portray
human qualities, being objects made
by man. A traffic light, caught in’
mid-yellow, is losing a small strip of
metal. A man holds tiny wires,
probably complex in structure and
analogous to the complexity of the
human hand in which they are held.
Some of Walters’ photographs
seem posed and others seem acciden-
tal or coincidental. Both approaches
are equally as effective. He captures
the unrehearsed delight of a child
discovering a turtle and the vanity of
a young woman who is oblivious to

COCO OeOAADEL SHOE OOOO EO TOO OE HH HHH OOSOOHLO HPP OE HHO COOLO8

? SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS: Camp :

motorboating

LOOKING FOR MORE THAN

> exemplary character and offer good salaries, room ;

meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick ;

pon pt of a letter of application:
which should include a brief resume’ of training :
area(s) of camp program in:
ich you are best qualified to instruct. Apply to:
Taylor, Director. Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer, :

25
-

: and experience in

Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer—North Carolina’s :
nationally recognized coastal boys’ and girls’
camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and
New Bern. 29th season. Camps feature sailing, :
and seamanship plus all usual ;
camping activities (including skin-diving and golf ;
course at Sea Gull and horseback riding at:
Seafarer). Opportunities for students (college men
and women), coaches and teachers who are

3: summer job”. Openings for NURSES (RN). June :
: 8—August 20. We seek highly qualified (ability to ;
* instruct in one phase of camp’s program), :

O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605. :

All hail, oh Davidson!

Our dear old Alma Mater.

Our fathers loved thee

gave their best to thee.

And still today

their loyal sons and daughters
follow them on

and pledge their loyalty!

COO O OOOOH S CHOSE HESE HEHEHE EEE HO EH EH EOTEDEUE DETTE OSH OO OH OOO SESE E TEER SO OOOO OOOO OL EL ODO OEE OOOO OOOO EEO EOO OO OLOO OES OHOEOE OO OOSEOEOCEOO OSE OOE OOOOH EL OOOEES

ptures tangible emotion

her being observed.

A rather perturbed fellow gives the.
finger, perhaps.to disapprove of
individual taste as he flaunts his
astonishing garb. He is an actor—ob-
viously very aware that he is being
photographed—but his statement is
thoroughly poignant.

Several photographs are superim-
posed with the vague figure of a

‘woman. Each depicts a place of

possible familiarity to the photo-
grapher: a piano, bedroom, bathroom
and a group of trees. The woman is
active in each picture, seeming to

_ physically mingle with her surround-

ings. She is perhaps a memory,
immortalized by objects with which
she once came in contact—this being
a manifestation of Walters’ main
artistic statement.

Walters’ contrast of tone and
contour are excellent. Lines in his
photographs are clear and concise,
emphasizing shadow and shading
effects. This is particularly apparent
in one of two still-life photographs.
Pictured are eggs, a creamer and a

‘sugar bowl. All the objects are white

and can only be defined by reflection
d the contrasting greys of shadow.
alters is a graduate of Mars Hill
and Wake Forest Colleges and is a
native North Carolinian. He. retired
from his position on The Charlotte
Observer in 1961 in order to explore

“more adventurous pursuits in adver-

tising and editorial photography.

Walters’ work has been extensively
published in various magazines and
has been exhibited throughout Vir-
ginia, North Carolina and South
Carolina. He has been named South-
ern Photographer of the Year three
times,

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

