February 13, 1976

_ SRE CoRR TREES
Use President Spencer

Assistant to the President Rick Love has remarked on the failure of
Davidson students to attend Dr. Spencer’s Open Ends on Tuesdays.
“Every Tuesday he comes back at about 10:05 am n and I know that
nobody came to his Open End...again.””

It is laughable to think of Spencer returning to his office sibling his
head and moaning that it’s lonely at the top, but the gravity of the -
situation soon becomes evident. When students miss chances to talk to
Spencer they forfeit an opportunity for input to the college, an
opportunity that is too small now and can only grow with

exercise. A chance is also missed for conversation with a’ rare man,

namely a college president who has deep abiding | concern for the height of

tree limbs on campus, the heat in dorms, and any of a aumber of trivial
‘annoyances in a day. And the concern is real.

Spencer must defend the college and the members of its ‘staff to
students just as he must defend them against complaints from the
outside. But Spencer acts on the complaints ste suggestions through the
avenues tues open to hi to him. |

Complaints are’ are continually leveled at Spencer for speiadigia so much of
_his time and thought on daily trivialities. Instances in the past have
pointed out that he goes to great extremes to supervise the things that go
on on the campus. When the holes were dug for the lamps in Richardson
Plaza, there were to be three lamps in each of the planters. Spencer
demanded that there be four. This annoyed some who felt it was not
Spencer's job to interfere with the planned Richardson Plaza lighting.
But the whole thing points to an element of Spencer's character which we
do not want to call good or bad. We encourage students and faculty /staff
to use it! Be in the Morrison Room on announced Tuesdays to confront
Spencer. The initial response might be that of a college president
attempting to cover for his administration but it is when he goes back to
his office that work gets done. /

the davidsonian —

MatIneWrOOVINGION ss. oss Gia. Clea ern Chenu Editor
GUC RAINGION ss iors oc bo see se ei cman Managing Editor
eR t Heese 99 Fale 6 caus ol Weenie suns Business Manager
LEON Veneble-. 468i ge. se. a lee Photography Editor
SUG GOON cece Gece Gee pase Pe Production Manager
PRIOR EOVOO 664 seh. soli gee es chtaes Editorial Page Manager
MEIER ete cts vas bes pak cn ieee News Editor
BUCO TOMIORY . 63. ts ee sas eat ea eee ee Sports Editor
WEVOMMGOI or errs Fi kerk bo Cuda Features Editor
IEA VACAMIIECRI © e350 ei5 sos bigot ek 6 hase Ge sale eye es Advertising Manager
Lake] Sly LL =) ee Sara rae PNG rer ere Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of
‘Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly SHR eerie rate:
$6.00.

By TONY SNOW
Associate Editor
My worst fears have been realized:
it’s 1955 all over again. Now, it’s not
that I am always one to break with
tradition, but the parallels are abso-

lutely frightening. Take the eee
for instance.

In 1955, Dwight David Eisenhower
was‘ setting new records for charis-
matic deficiency. He was a brilliant
war general, a country. boy and a nice
guy, but he wasn’t what you’d call an
inspirational leader. Gerry Ford is
nothing to write abroad about either.
He is also a pleasant, innocuous and
boring executive.

Besides their somnambulent
parity, both presidents were also
mediocre sportsmen. Ford is the man
who made history when he almost
became the first president to meet his

death on a set of ‘stairs, not to

mention his amusing stumbles and .

bumbles around the slopes. It’s
pretty sad when the biggest news of

NO

ARE YOU ae
SORE you
. 1] | (taven'e Gor
EEE | AM ED?
_Y \\\\ | REFERENCES? |
LCREDIT. CARDS 22)

rege

Uys, —

SRR

Snow realizes worst of fears

‘the day ig the latest spill by the
Commander-in-Chief.

Ike, on the,other hand, spent his
afternoons putting golf into a modest
little glass, and sending advisors into
the Far East. It was a pleasant
enough arrangement. Everyone was
happy and prosperous and dumb. It
wouldn’t be 15 years until they would
find out what was going on, but at
least old Ike got elected...

The maxim that ‘‘The more all
things stay the same”’ also finds
glorious realization on campuses all
over the nation. Fraternities, corny
stunts, and apathy are big again.
Real world politics are very little. A
couple of years ago that might ‘have
been called “iconoclastic irreverence,”
But now the thrill is gone. Nobody
cares (except Walter Joyce and me).

Once again kids are kids and not.
threats to society. Adults are adults
and.everyone is respected even if they
are turkeys. In short, Gerry Ford is
not the only boring person around. I
guess that’s. why we: relate to him: |

"Happy Days” are es again...

Butner examines students’ ‘rights

Editor’s note: Blain Butner served as SGA
President of Davidson College in 1974. During this
time Butner was involved in the early stages of
drafting a Statement of Student Rights and Respon-

sibilities for the college, a document which has yet to
be finalized.

An Open Letter to Students:
Having recently become a graduate of Davidson

and joined that aspect of society known as the real
world, I find myself able to view many aspects of life
with a perspective I did not have while at Davidson.
I find myself crystalizing viewpoints which were
only partially formed, concretizing goals which were
imprecise, and—most importantly —strengthening
convictions which I was beginning to adopt as a
college student.

Personal ethics are, I feel, all-important as one
begins to attempt to order his life and to work
towards the realization of his life’s goals.
~ Personal rights— —collectively and | individually —
are a principle in which I strongly believe. In the
broad sense, in our republic, citizens are granted
some very important rights by the U.S. Constitu-
tion. Among them, I value most highly the so-called

-“Pirst Amendment Freedoms’’—freedom of reli-

gion, speech, press, assembly, and petition. The
omission of that single sentence from the Consti-
tution would drastically alter the lifestyle of every
one of us.

I also find myself relating. the real world to the
world I knew at Davidson, and vice versa.
Consequently, to tie the aforerunning rhetoric to life
at Davidson, I must address the concept of student

rights.

With the student activin of the 1960’ s largely
behind us, one sometimes hears a premise forwarded
which would cause our recent predecessors to seethe:

' the premise that (especially in private higher

education) the Trustees (or the Administration, or
the Regents) own the college and therefore have the

- inherent right to lay down the entire law, which the

students (mere consumers of the educational
product) have no right to challenge. Resistance to
such dogma enveloped the sixties, resulting in such
significant legal decisions as Tinker v. Des Moines
Independent Community School District. (students
do not ‘‘shed their constitutional rights to freedom
of speech or expression at the schoolhouse gate’’),
Frujillo v. Love (further freedom of bea gait and
countless others.

Rather than accepting the abpctute: supremacy of
the ‘‘governing body”’ (in our case, the Board of
Trustees), I assert that the students have a primary
position in. determining college policy, by virtue of
the simple fact that the college exists for them and
that without their presence and their money the
college would immediately lose its raison d’etre. In

‘short, by the very virtue of your studenthood, you

have the right to call the shots. The right is there if
you will only claim it.

The various constituent groups of Davidson
College have been considering the concept of a
student Bill of Rights or a Statement of Rights and

Responsibilities for the past eighteen months.’

Recent events would tend to indicate that most are
concerned with a speedy resolution of the. matter.

Such a statement — genuinely accepted. by the
college community —is in my mind no less than
crucial. A clear, fair,) and responsible statement

which easures the. proper student. rights and
concomitant responsibilities and is recognized by all
will by design prevent many future controversies.
How many of you are aware of the contents of the
document which is currently being bandied about?
For the most part, the proposed statement is -

sound—somewhat vague here, a little . rhetorical

there, but generally sound. And by and large, it is
agreed to by students, faculty, and administration
members.

_ But that part of the statement which deals with :
expression via student media is all but. settled and
all but sound, as proposed by some non-student
members of the community.

Dr. William M. Beaney, Professor of Politics at
Princeton University (to which we fondly like to
compare ourselves), has said:

The unpopularity or irrationality of student . -
expression provides no justification for
suppression or penalty...It would be ex-
tremely unfortunate if institutions of higher
learning, having successfully fought so
many battles with legislatures and trustees
in the name of academic freedom for the
faculty, should fail to recognize that
freedom for students to express ideas
without fear of penalty is also essential to a
free academic community.

Such a free academic community is also called for
by Davidson College in its Statement: of Purpose,
which states that Davidson ‘‘emphasizes those
studies, disciplines, and. activities which liberate.
mankind physically, mentally, and spiritually.”

[See MEDIA, page 12]
