February 6, 1976

By RICHARD BOYCE
Editorial Page Edito

“Some studied merely to acquire
knowledge, which is curiosity; others
to acquire fame, which is vanity;
others still for the sake of gain. .
Very few studied for their own
edificaton, or that of others.”’

-Fourteenth-century French cleric

“College,”’ his father had said, “‘is
essentially four years in which to
grow up.”

High school had been relatively
easy. But, not as easy as it could have
been. “Yes, you'll need that fourth
year of French and you'd better crowd
in a little calculus.’” SAT’s. Admis-
sion forms. Interviews. But, thank
goodness, all for good cause. He could
picture energetic, omniscient profes-
sors; eager, altruistic, highly intelli-
gent students; loudly bizarre weekend
parties. :

Freshman year. At first, he had
drowned himself in frantic activity.

=

He was, in a word, in “

But, later, as things slowed, over-
looked items rose to the surface.

Indifference, slack instruction, un-
fulfilled needs, and irrelevant courses.
All that work for this? Romantic
illusions were fading. Yet, perhaps,
success.

“Hello?”

“Hello, Mom and Dad, guess what?
I did it!”

“My God. did what?”

“A 4.0. I pulled a 4.0 this term!”

“Oh congratulations. That’s good.
But, how’s the hall going? What’ve
you been doing on the weekends?
Getting along with the roommate?
Any excursions? Have you gotten
down to see the grandparents? How’s
the food? Any parties?

“You don’t understand. I made a
4.0!”

“Have you met any girls?”

His parents had been successful
students, even exceptional students.
They were living out missed oppor-
tunities in him. But, he said, things

Minority or minorities?

Davidson Black Week, which is scheduled for April 5-10
should be agood one. At the very least it seems as if it is going
to be well-funded. This is largely thanks to the establishment
by the Union Board on Wednesday of a Minority Activities

Committee.

Accofding to the minutes of the Union Board Executive
Committee meeting of January 22, the first programming
- activity for the Minority Activities group will be Black Week. It
was decided at the same meeting that Darlene Cunningham
would receive the Union Board chair nomination to head the
Minority Activities Committee. Cunningham is an officer of the
Black Student Coalition. She was elected with no oppostion at

Wednesday’s Union Board Meeting.

The Minority Activities Committee is designed to coordinate
programming dealing specifically with minority groups,
(religious, racial and ethnic). The committee will be funded
with $2000 from the Cultural Events Committee and $1000 from |

the Union’s large contingency fund.

As chairman, Cunningham will select members for her
committee. It will be this select group that administrates the
direction of the Minority Activities monies.

We call for Cunningham to be careful in the selection of her
committee members, to choose a range of people with a range
of interests. In particular, blacks, women, foreign students,
and religious minorities should be selected to balance the
committee. We also call for students whose interests are to be
served by this committee to make themselves known to
Cunningham as she is selecting. Once selection is complete
all minorities should be made aware of whoisonthe
committee by newsletter or fact sheet from the Union Board.

Minorities then must continue to be conscious of the
possibilities that the Minority Activities Committee monies

afford.

$3000 is a reasonable amount of money for the Minority
Activities Committee to work with. It is nota large sum
however, and might go quickly if the committee is used
heavily, or if a large-amount is channeled to one source. To
insure a more balanced direction of the Minority Activities
monies, the committee chairman and the members of the
minorities it will serve should begin immediately to act

responsibly.

the davidsonian

Matthew Covington...........-..:++-
CHUGKAKENNON. ceieiesicectse cess csests
SOE SIGN Cai cti svi seeterrastsne nieces:
LOOM VENADIO. 5.25 iceseccsccscces ecco :
SiisaniGOlat esis cci cette asap cenccsaven es
Richard BoyCe....0.....s-..ceeeeeeeeee
Bill Barnes.........:...eeseeeeees aga his
David Kellers:.:;..0ccce: ieee decsstecedees
Anne FICKIEN 2... loess ec occceeeessecees
David Trader... 3.05305 .0265.. Sete

Rick Miller.......::ceerseceeeeerereeees

seweeeenee
eee eeeres

rrerreee eee ee
eee c wesc ereoeeaeeee

eee eee en eeesewese

sccarrien Advertising Manager
bean sie: Circulation Manager

Editorial Page Editor
News Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson
College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all
eérrespondence to The. Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036.

Yearly subscription rate:$6.00.

are different now, I want to go to
med-school. I’ve got to have those
grades! These are ‘troubled times.”

‘Very few studied for their own
edification, or that ot others.”’

The grey cold of winter had settled
in. Quiet halls. Whispers of transfer
turned to loud boasts. He went to the
900 Room. Half full. ““Everyone must
be at PAX house.’’ He goes there. A
fair crowd. But, someone said there
were 1200 students at this school!
Closed doors, hunched figures over
dimly lit desks. The early hours of
Sunday morning.

“College,’’ he had said, “‘is essent-
tially four years in which to grow up.”

The SDS. Burning flags. A stu-
dent, long hair, mustached, dark
glasses, feet propped on president’s
desk, fist clenched. Kent State. The
war. The 60’s.

‘‘There’s no sense in taking the
paper any longer. Face it. Neither one
of us reads the thing. No time. We
get Newsweek. That’s enough. Any-
way, even Doonesbury is getting

Academic disillusion brews doubts

boring. Chinese diplomacy?”’

He had learned the game pretty
well. He knew the ground rules. Even
Humanities readings dimminished as
he learned what corners could be cut.
He could win the necessary grades,
perhaps even the necessary scholar-
ships. But, an era was coming to a
close. Graduation loomed ahead. He
felt horribly inadequate. What the
hell would he do? He was scared. He
went to the library.

High school. Rednecks and football
heroes. Formalized dating. Gossip.
Extra credit. 7th period government
class dragged on. He watched the
clock. He dreamed of college. Long,
heated discussions on decidedly philo-
sophical topics.

A new class arrives. A new fresh-
man class. Pot, not only out of style,
but dangerous. Weekday visitation
and weekend visitors on the down-
swing. Hints of conservatism. Hints
even of racial prejudice. Weekend

[see DISILLUSION, page 5]

Davipson COLLEGE, A SMALL INTIMATE COLLEGE.

{N

Are conditions of religious belief for
tenure compatible with academic
freedom?

Although the 1940 Statement on

. Tenure of the American Association
of University Professors specifies that
universities and colleges affiliated
with religious groups may require
their tenured faculty members to
adhere to certain doctines, such
requirements seem to infringe upon
the rights of professors to pursue the
truth unfettered.

By requiring that its permanent
faculty possess certain religious be-
liefs, the church-related college pre-
vents the proclamation of opposing
positions on religious questions.

One may reply that occasional
speakers hostile to religion may be
invited to the campus to propose
dissenting views or that a few
non-tenured faculty without religious
beliefs may be permitted to occupy
positions on the faculty for a few
years.

But such allowances underline the
unwillingness of the institution to
permit a full and fair debate on both
sides of the question since the
occasional speaker and the temporary
faculty cannot have as sustained an

WITH EMPHASIS ON THE WORTH AND IM-
PORTACE oF THE INDIVIDVAL | UNVEILS
ITS’ EXPANDED HOUSING FOR SOPHOMORES
1976-7.

SAIL |

t
pay)

iews tenure,
religious belief, & freedom

By EARL R.MACCORMAC
Professor of Philosophy

influence as the permanent facuivy.

The presence of professors who
challenge religious beliefs would lead
to a much more lively debate among
students and faculty on theological
issues. Not surprisingly, religion
professors on many church-related
campuses welcome such challenges
since they fear indifference more than
they do honest dissent.

Certainly a professor can present
students with many sides of an issue
including positions opposed to his
own, but he can never do so as
forcefully or effectively as a live,
vigorous opponent can.

Trustees of church-related colleges
genuinely fear the secularization of
their institutions since much of the
history of higher education in Amer-
ica echoes that theme over and over
again as the Harvards and Yales,
founded primarily to educate youth
for the ministry and government,
have lost their early Puritan ties.

But the process by which these
institutions became completely secu-
lar in their orientation may not have
followed overt decisions to admit
faculty members with positions hos-
tile to religion on their faculties.
Instead, very gradually the professed
believers on their faculties became

[see TENURE, page 5]
