the davidsonian

September 17, 1976

4

Davidson farms out
Honor System and
Freshmen Hall

Davidson College swallows hard this week. A bitter dose of
compromise is not sweetened by cokes and coffee on
Thursday mornings. The biggest, whitest, most pampered
sacred cow of the college has been put out to pasture at least
for a while. This cow is the Honor System and with it goes its
mother, its protector, and its home, the freshman hall. Both

_the Honor System and the freshman hall concept were
compromised this week. While the P.E. department issued a
price list for athletic equipment.it believes students have
stolen in the past, freshmen are being housed off campus and

in pockets on upperclass floors.

An honor system cannot be in effect in some places and
suspended in others. If students have stolen P.E. equipment
then these violators of the Honor System should be caught the
next time they steal something. This would require a more
accurate and complete system of security in the gym. This
solution seems to be one the college cannot afford to enact
but it is obviously more in line with the Honor System than is a
solution where responsibility for items “bound to be stolen”
falls to the students. The idea of shrugging Davidson's
institutionai shoulders at theft and passing the loss on to
students is not only a compromise of values it is an act
counter productive to solving the problem. If the college
admits that theft will occur because it cannot be stopped then
potential theves will accept the boon and have a field day. If
the Honor System is not in effect in the gym it will have no

effect in the gym.

Meanwhile, twelve freshmen are living 6Ht-cémpus in the
Julia Johnson House and four freshmen are living on Second
Little. These sixteen students are not having the same kind of
experience that their 366 classmates get. It is a moot point
whether the freshmen isolated off-campus or the freshmen
without a true hall counselor are the worst off. The loser is
Davidson College, whose backsliding is pointed up here in
hopes that it will be noticed and changed.

Carter ticket seeks to
de-throne King Henry

To the Editor:

Keeping in mind that we, each of
us,-are-our only-tax-base, we can
slowly adjust our tax. structure to
respect the personal sovereignty of
each of us, provide for our common
defense and general welfare, and,
encourage those of us with the most
integrity and ability to lead spaceship
earth to more light.

Though we stood mute while his
policy of tax, tax, spend, spend, elect,
and elect was implemented by our
Congress, even Harry Hopkins never

dreamed that we would allow our
national debt to be used to support
those who consider themselves above
our Constitution and the laws of our
Republic.

Fortunately, “WE THE PEOPLE”
always grunt before it is too late.
After we use our secret ballot to elect
Jimmy Carter/Fritz Mondale, and, to
elect candidates with equal integrity
and ability to our Congress, the
imaginary throne King Henry occu-
pies will be just another whisper on
the wind.

Hugh D. Dudley
Fayetteville, N.C.

Irv Wilson.
SusanColan .................
Richard Boyce

Bruce Holliday ik Arian’ Hall. .
Coe eee airy Landis .....

David Trader ..
Rob Mitchell PEELS eat apeeB EN

eeesneeeeeeee ee ee

ere eo re ae Editor
ha hare Managing Editor

ate oe Business Manager
Wiewie ewe Photography Editor

ooh tte de Production Manager

suieee Editorial Page Editor

ite ‘Sports Editors
oh cen ee Features Editors

Gaeta Advertising Manager

Meroe ee Circulation Manager

; Publiehed weekly during the school! year by students of

| College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,

NA >. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian,
218, Davidson, N.C, Yearly mpsctiellon.G rate: $6.00.

|

Anti-self- -selection vote
belies SGA’s stupidity

By PEYTON MARSHALL
Staff Writer

Before the excitement and adven-
ture of national conventions com-
pletely mesmerized my already sum-
mer-worn intellect, there passed a
fleeting moment of thought. A.start-
ling empirical statement rushed into

my. head with the subtlety of a ~

Penthouse centerfold, shattering be-
yond repair my expectations for the
Great Society.

The abrasive new postulate: Politi-
cians Are Dumb. My only comfort:

Davidson’s isolation from the grim

world of political reality.

But, when I returned to the ivory
tower, the pungent aroma of suppres-
sed memories began to destroy even
my meager comfort. Politicians are
not just dumb on the national level,
but on the local and campus level as
well,

Indeed, the ‘‘leaders of tomorrow”
today are showing a remarkable
aptitude for stupidity. One well-hid--
den event of last spring lends signifi-
cant support to my empirical general-
ization.

The SGA Senate failed to reaffirm
the pririciple of self-selection on
Patterson Court.

What does the principle mean’ Self-
selection implies that any member of
the student body should be able to
choose the eating house of his or her
choice within the constraint of facili-
ties. Social prejudices should not
serve as criteria for the acceptance or
rejection of students at eating houses.

How did the Senate come to reject
this norm? The rationale was a
mystery, the motives unclear, but
the events went something like this.

Phil Caine, after many hours of
interviews, study and thought, sub-
mitted a report on the current over-
crowding on Patterson Court, inclu-
ding possible/short- term relief meas-
ures and long-term solutions. This
thorough report was to be submitted
to the Trustee Committee on Student

Life as a recommendation by the
SGA.
The basic assertion of the report: If

' the-principle of selections to remain a

viable guide to the Patterson Court
System then action must be taken
very soon to relieve crowded condi-

| tions. This contention, as any pedes-

trian logician could discern, is simply
a. conditional statement: If A then B.
When Phil completed his report,

i ~~

a.

g

He

TFA

Carol ‘Watkins made the logical
motion: ‘‘that the SGA reaffirms the
principle of self-selection and agrees
with the report, recommending that if
self-selection is to be preserved then
action must be taken.’’ In essence the
motion said: A, If A then B. The hope
was that the Trustees might see that
B was the answer.

Logical discourse is usually short-
lived at a Senate meeting. Instantly,
a motion passed calling for the Senate
to vote separately on the two proposi-
tions: ‘‘A’’ and “If A then B.”’ The
second passed overwhelmingly. The
first failed by one vote. Thus the
Senate refused to reaffirm the princi-
ple of self-selection. The Senate’s
decision was not, of course, automa-
tically translated into college policy,
but most apparently a spiritual blow
was dealt to the self-selection system.

In the context of the discussion the
decision made no sense. The Senate
recommended a conditional statement
instead of a complete argument.
Instead of calling for action to be
taken, the Senate called for an
“if-then” statement to be accepted.
But if you don’t, like the ‘‘if’’ the
“then” doesn’t follow.

The defensive Senator might reply,
‘We were only finding facts, not
making value judgments. We leave
the determination of the college’s
norms to the Trustees.”

Perhaps the decision does rest
strictly with the Trustees, although I
am sure that some faculty members
would cringe at such a contention.
But, it seems that if the SGA is
intended to represent and communi-
cate student views it should pass on
the values of students to other
elements of the college community.
What purpose, other than grad school
applications, does the Senate serve?

Thus, the only possible conchusio ;
is that the SGA does not, or at toad’
did not, believe in self-selection.

It is difficult to assess whether
students feel this way. My intuition
tells me that the majority do not.
Even if they did, however, a reassess-
ment is called for.

Why reject self-selection? The most
common arguments are as follows.
First, the system is imperfect. The

abuses of the. ‘selection procedure,

sh as’handing dry Pens to undesir-
© make the principle unattainable,
