the davidsonian

October 29, 1976

Bes “eal hater 3

YMC

Many things at Davidson operate
under a ‘‘low profile’. A strong
student political undercurrent. A
widespread fervor for social concerns.
An overriding involvement in the
affairs of the “outside world”,

Such “things”, however, operate
under a low profile for quite a simple
reason. Namely, they don’t exist.

There are, however, other quite
tangible activities at Davidson which
also operate under ‘‘low profiles’’.
These organizations plod on, but,
through no choice of their own,
remain unrecognized excepting foul-
ups. Such, perhaps, is the situation of
the SGA. Such, indeed, is the
dilemma of the YMCA. It continues
to operate. It remains unknown.

There are two fates open to such an
organization. First, it can simply
disappear. Second, in the absence of
up-to-date information, it becomes
labelled with the inherited rumors and

cliches of the past. The second, once :

again, seems the plight of the ‘‘Y’’.

Whether labelled as ‘‘do-gooders‘‘,
“Jesus freaks”, or ‘‘stagnant ideal-
ists’’, those involved with YMCA
activities seem continually classed as
a group over and away from the rest
of the campus, constantly busying
themselves about vague and unprod-
uctive tasks. While surfacing occas-
ionally to plague one with pleas for
contributions or raucous STEP. “‘tu-
tees”, the “YMCA’ers’’, in general,
are envisioned, if at all, as leading
lives of ‘‘fruitless agitation’.

Such, of course, may serve as

SGA Senate begins
implementation of

good habit

Very rarely can a column on these editorial pages deal with
every issue that involves Davidson students. In order to do so,
each student would have to be allowed an opportunity to voice
his or her opinion or problem. The problems that many
students share as well as the trivial ideas of a few would have
to be included and accorded equal space. In fact, there is no
way for this newspaper to do these things. The only way that
we can cover everything that students are concerned with is to
write about a group that has undertaken to check with students
individually about the issues that involve students.

The SGA Senate is such an organization.

This is the first week of implementation for the Senate’s
visitation policy. According to this policy, each student will be
visited three times a term by a senator who will listen to the
recommendations and ideas of the student, submit these
ideas to the entire Senate for discussion, and then get back to
the person with some report involving the implementation of

that student’s ideas.

We see the Senate policy as a positive thing and as a system
that has been needed at Davidson for some time. In order for it
to be fully successful, however, the students and senators
involved will have to maintain their interests during this
difficult time of organization. As the policy is allowed to
continue, it will become more smooth and with luck, should S
become one of Davidson’s best habits.

tne Gaudsonian

Matthew Covington..........

Jeff Sich

Bill Barnett

Bruce Holladay & Amanda Hall
DBVR GOON ire SR
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins
DOVE TIBGO@L | So ete et hee

Rob Mitchell

OF ,05:9 OF O50 05:0. 0) 41.0 80-16 Or ane cece

SIVAVVIIBOMN Fhe. or oes Gs oct
SusaniGOlen: 6. ea aa
EU IIEIR, go 5.6 es ds we piso

i ee er Editor
o baibie eee Business Manager
CE one aD Photography Editor
Seciig t ere Production Manager

ib Seki 6 geen News Editor

PHA are i. Editorial Page Editor
sph sh sia «ere aa Sports Editors
cls. vss « Se Features Editor

PP ees Asst. News Editors

Sie oe eaaae Advertising Manager
ean eT Circulation Manager

U %

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N:C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly:subscription rate: $6.00.

‘adequate representation for some of
those concerned. However, for the
majority, though it is by no means a
vast majority, such generalizations
just ain’t so.

At the beginning of this year, in its
annual fund drive, the YMCA netted
a fairly sizable sum for such a venture
($1,373.18 to be exact). This money
came from both students and faculty
by means of a harrassed core of
“collectors”. Contrary to widespread
belief, this money did not mysterious-
ly disappear. It was not even, as is
also often postulated, ‘‘squandered
haphazardly; Instead, through the
direction of the YMCA officers and
advisors, this money has and is being
used to fund a number of productive,
and tangible, goals and programs.

According to its own definitions,
the Y’s goals are a three-fold enrich-
ment: of town/student community
life, of educational life, and of social
life. The implementation of these
broad categories is carried out
through funding and organization of

‘specifics.

The STEP program, due to its
visibility, is the most widely recog-
nized and, subsequently, most consis-
tently supported of the Y’s commun-
ity efforts. the relative success
fo this big-brother, big-sister pro-
gram is definitely positive, its equa-
tion with the Y is not. The Y, while
many things, is not a ‘‘one-shot”’
deal. That this is’ so is demonstrated
graphically by the simple fact that the
STEP receives substantially less than
half of the Y's funds. Again the
question returns, ‘‘Where does it go?’”’

To begin, the Y’s community theme
of inter-involvement is continued and
expanded through such programs as
those of the gym in the new North
Meck YMCA, the Depot Coffee
House for high-schoolers, the Hous-
ing Project for the less affluent, the
annual celebration of Town Day and
the weekly anti-hunger “Share A
Meal’’, Furthermore, the Y’s educa-
tional goals of enrichment are focused
on the dual programs of symposiums

Letter to the Editor

merits greater recognition

and discussion groups; the first a
nominally formal approach to interes-
ting topics (for example, ‘Death and
Dying”) through outside speakers,
the second a decidedly anti-formal
approach to ‘‘stimulating’’ topics
through the development of weekly
“small groups’. Lastly, the Y’s social
goals.of good times and/or escape are
met through the weekly gatherings of
the Thursday Lunch Group, the
annual shenanigans of the Spring
Celebration, the mysterious activities
of a professedly childish ‘‘Weirdo
Group” and the self-organized outlet
of weekend retreats.

Such a list, as with most lists,
again leaves one feeling cold and
distant. Knowing the Y funds pro-
grams is not enough. What one must
realize is that the Y is run and

_ supported by students and, further-

more, by students whose interests,
outside of concern, vary little from
anyone else’s.

That the Y is unrecognized as
continuous with the rest of the college
as a whole lies not in any inherent
peculiarity of its members or its
programs. To some degree, as pre-
viously stated, it s isolation
might be explained by lack of
publicity or predominance of cliches.
But, ultimately, the Y stands apart
because that is what the uninvolved
desire. That which remains unfamiliar
makes no demands on one’s time. If
one can make oneself believe an
otherwise useful program is ineffec-
tual, one feels no compulsion to join.

The Y, as evidenced, is doing
something. Through funds and pro-
grams it is, at least, ‘‘confronting”’ its
goals. But the Y stands finally as only
a ‘‘facilitator.’’ A facilitator needs
someone “‘to facilitate’’.

Yes, Y is, at present, ‘‘low profile’’.
It may remain so. The real choice lies
neither with the college newspapers’
publicity or the Y’s officers’ dedica-
tion. The Y will remain “removed” as
long as the majority believe it to be.
It will remain ‘ineffectual’ only so
long as that is also your response.

Davidson needs Jesus

To the Editor:

Davidson College no longer knows
its Lord. How could it possibly know
itself?

The editorial last week made some
accurate observations about the
present lack of community at
Davidson, but failed to understand
the root of the problem. It dealt only
with the symptoms and while symp-
toms are important in leading to the
cause of a particular disease, full
health is rarely restored by tréatment
of symptoms alone. Time and again
the original pathogen will regain
control over a weakened body, This
cycle of partial health and overwhelm-
ing sickness continues until either the
patient dies or the pathogen is
destroyed.

The editor correctly observed that
in many groups.on campus, “‘any
feeling of membership. bet
members.. has been supplanted by
feelings of individualism and ‘selfish-
ness.’’ My question is this: will an

exchange of ideas (the solution
proposed by the editor) be sufficient
to change our hearts? For it is there,
in the core of our personalities, that
individualism and selfishness arise.

Can any of us truthfully claim the
power to change another's heart, or
the ability to totally restructure
another’s priorities and goals in life?
Yet this is the change needed among
us at Davidson before true communi-
ty can exist. I say to you plainly that
only Jesus of Nazareth has claimed
the power to do this and then
demonstrated it in the lives of men
and women.

There will be no genuine and inward
change in the Davidson ‘“‘community”
unless individuals desire to turn away
from selfishness and submit (a hard
word for. proud, 20th | century man) to
being servants of Jesus the Messiah,

. the Lord of the Universe.

Hervey Froehlich '77
Davideon College
