March 19, 1976

the davidsonian

Davidson National

Print and Drawing Competition

Gerch Tecker

hmeres: 10.000 tetris ee denser 25

THE DAVIDSON
National opens here
March 21, possibly
for the last time.

-Leon Venable

Wilensky

chides Munce,
Baskin, Spencer

for media compromise ~ -

{Continued from page 6]

Three people could not give up, however. John
Munce had nothing to show for his SGA presidency.
Bo Baskin has seen half of his slip by with the same
result. The Trustees’specifically charged Sam
Spencer with the task of resolving the censorship

problem after 1974’s fiasco with Quips and Cranks.

Munce, Baskin, Spencer and Will Terry sat down
together to write a new draft. Write they did. No
subcommittee, no nothing. It is now circulated by
Munce and implied to be the result of the
subcommittee’s deliberations.

In fact, Munce, Baskin and Spencer are making a“

last ditch attempt to reach the elusive agreement all
three need. Munce and Baskin completely sur-
rendered the free press issue. No doubt this version
will be passed. Spencer’s enthusiastic recommenda-
tion will insure it.

The rumor is that John Munce will run for Trustee
after he graduates. Certainly an agreement ramrod-
ded by Munce will enhance his chances.

to accept this statement of rights and respon-
sibilities. The statement’ doesn’t break any new
ground; for the most part, it reaffirms-rights clearly
protected.

The media section is an outrage. There is no
binding legal opinion tying the College in as
publisher of student publications. These publica-
tions must be a reflection of the students and their
elected editors. The College serves as a collection
agent and nothing more.

If the College feels student publications are part of
its public relations program, let them fund their own
annual as they do the Update. Zach Long and Buck
Lawrimore are expert at presenting the Davidson

line.
~ Student publications should be just that— student
publications. Other colleges have given their
students the right of a free press. Can you imagine
the Davidson of the North (Princeton) censoring a
publication?

We need to move some of the dinosaurs on -the
Board of Trustees and in the administration to the
point where they can accept the Davidson student as
he really is—different than he was in the past.

There simply is no reason for Davidson’s students

If only Williams College would allow free speech...

Union displays Jackson's exhibit

Davidson College is fortunate to
have among its small (but excellent)
fine arts faculty Herb Jackson,
painter and printmaker. From March
llth to the 24th the Davidson
community is given one valuable
opportunity to view Herb as artist as
well as professor and head of the
Davidson National Print and Draw-
ing Competition.

Jackson’s exhibit of current color
lithographs and intaglios, on display
in the Davidson Student Union
Gallery, represents his work in extra-
polating the genre of abstract expres-
sionism.

This modern movement separates
art \from superficial psychological or.
philosophical meanings and its it take
its most natural form, that of
expessing its media only.

Jackson’s work, like all art, is
about color, space, texture, intervals,
movement, shape, light, and temper-
ature. The test of his art is whether he
can hold our attention by using only
these quate: Er ipout concrete or
experience. This show succeeds for
the most part.

Those prints which I term the most
‘‘successful’’ are the*ones which
communicate to the viewer the most
about these values. One of the layer
prints, a muted lilac, grey, and smoke
blue composition, conveys space by
use of two planes, one which recedes
behind and under the other. Its
misty, dreamlike treatment of color
and soft, cottony surface lit by an
interior light make it very tangible as
well.

This same use of ~

vy verlappin g
planes and smces lit from behind is in

Woe ina large, dark, navy blue print
hanging to the right of the entrance.

One ot the i:ueqium-sized prints is
particularly pleasing in this aspect
because of the overlap of two open
planes with a solid one, in addition to
an energetic variety of surfaces.

The most expressive of these pieces
are three of the four small ones
against the back wall of the lery.
These evidence the most constious
modeling of space, temperature
change, color harmony, lighting var-
iety, and different intervals.

The positive planes and shapes
produced in these prints add to their
power. Their slashed, crayony surface
seems to have been inspired by Herb’s
wife Laura’s gemlike cross-hatched
paintings.

Of the less successful prints, one
large, pale- colored example lacks
definitive shape, space, or tempera-
ture. M@ intervals are too balanced
and its color and light undistin-

. guished. The vertical bright blue and
green print in the center of the
right-hand wall also suffers from a
lack of interesting shapes, space
differentiatioh, light change, or inter-
val articulation.

But the show is overall a vital one,
and should not be missed as a chance
to understand and appreciate Jack-
son’s talents. Prices are available by
request. Please contact J ayne Reich.

Revive a great tradition

By JACK GOLDEN Hei

[Ed. note—Mr. Golden's trivia ‘col-
umn will not be published this week
as he chose to devote his time to the
research for the following article. The
colr mn will return next week. 3) pies

.radition is an important factor in
the life of any institution, especially
for those of an academic nature. _The
feeling of cultural and social contin-
uity and permanence they provide
would sorely be missed of they: were
allowed to pass from the scene: ‘

Here at Davidson College we have
precious few links with the past,
consequently, we must guard’ them
jealously. Through an accident which
I shall soon relate, I have discovered a
case in which the College has actively
undertaken the extermination of on=
of Davidson’s finest tr-*" a
literar eentetes ..aditions, a

y soc

7) BAD /O ES

cvidiaice of this action on the part
of the College fathers fell into my
unsuspecting hands earlier this fall.
While browsing through the antique
volumes which are shelved in the

temporary storage area in the library
basement I came upon a volume with
a bookplate bearing the word “‘Inter-
mezzo’’. Beneath this word was a
partially obliterated engraving of an
ante-bellum structure. Thinking no-

thing of it T let it slide from my mind.

My interest was rekindled when I
discovered in a file of Eumenean
Society documents in that same area
of the library several documents from
and pertaining to a third Davidson
literary society, Intermezzo!

Not quite believing what my eyes
fell upon I dug deeper into the file.
There I found topics of debates
between the Eumenean and 1-

i anter-
etie-~
deal societiog a list of Intermezzo

Society officers, and many more
documents pertaining to this myster-
ious society.

Thinking myself the subject of an
elaborate hoax I discussed my dis-
covery with Dr. Chalmers Davidson
who assured me the bogus nature of
the documents.

Third society documents found

I accepted his explanation and felt
myself a fool for being so gullible until
that day in February when the book
with the telltale nameplate dnd the

file containing the information disap-

+h al af Shier:
neared from the shelves of the Hbrary.

My inquiries elicited the informatior
that they had been moved to the
Archivist’s office on Dr. Davidson’s
orders.

Through means which I am loathe
to disclose I have managed to obtain
many documents pertaining to the
Intermezzo Society as weil as a
number of the society’s own docu-
ments. These items were ahtained + oie

dav th, eras article was being Ne tien.
consequently I am unable to give any
details at this time.

When my sources have been auth-
enticated I will make them public.
The purpose of this article is to alert
as many readers to the mysterious
disappearance of Intemezzo and to
obtain help in the crusade to revive a
great tradition. Please watch the
Davidsonian for future developments.

