the davidsonian

January 23, 1976

4

Tenure benefits academic freedom |

By EARL R. MACCORMAC
Professor of Philosophy

Tenure exists primarily to protect
academic freedom and in this capacity
serves the cause of a democratic
society. An informed population al-
lows citizens to make decisions about
public issues, and one of the greatest
threats to our society arises when we
cannot have free access to the truth.
Various pressure groups seek to gain
our allegiance hoping that we will
vote for their candidates, buy their
products, or support their legislation.
Without dissenting opinions, propa-
gandists are free to ply their false-
hoods unopposed.

’ Colleges and universities provide
almost the only free forum of debate
where the propagandists can be
confronted by professors with op-
posing opinions. And tenure prevents
those fearful of the truth from using
economic reprisals to silence indepen-

dent researchers. Living in a world |

described by Yeats in which ‘‘the
best lack all conviction, while the
worst are full of passionate inten-
sity,” the still small voices of acade-
mics must be safeguarded from the
ruthless power seekers who wish to
eliminate all dissent.

Many academics forget the in-

famous McCarthy era when the .

Senator from Wisconsin saw in al-
most every university professor a left
wing socialist seemingly undermining
the youth of the nation and worthy
only of purging from his position as a
professor. Some were hounded out of

The ‘funny’ senator

Congratulations are extended to the final winners in

their posts by witch-hunting admini-

strators, trustees, and regents but
many protected by tenure were able to
voice their opposition to this persecu-

tion.

Even now professors come under
attack when they publish their con-
troversial findings, and without te-
nure they could be dismissed. Ima-
gine how difficult it was for the
professor who first published his
findings that cigarette smoking and
lung cancer are linked. The power and
influence of the tobacco industry are
enormous, and when the findings
were made public, his work was
ridiculed, his correlations described
as accidental and his university
probably received intimidations and
threats.

Each day as an undergraduate
student on the way to a publication
office I passed the office of E. Cuyler
Hammond and the name meant
nothing to me. Several years later
when his studies on smoking and lung
cancer were published, he received
instant notoriety. Only when I be-
came a professor did I realize just how
much he must have come under
attack and how much pressure his
university must have felt to fire him,
but he spoke as an expert in his field,
protected by tenure.

Some object to‘tenure on the
grounds that it does not guarantee
the academic freedom of younger
professors who have served less than
a full seven years; and that, in fact,
its existence prevents these younger
colleagues from speaking their mind
fearful that they will be dismissed.

The younger faculty worry that if
they proclaim controversial research
findings they will be opposed by
senior faculty who may reject their

’ nure. Tragically, however, wheat they

reach the Elysian fields of tenure,
often they have lost their ctitical
faculties through seven years of
nonuse.

bids for tenure primarily upon ideolo- : t
gical grounds. A younger faculty Waiting for the magical day of
member may find his ideological tenure, when it came, they found that i
position unacceptable to his senior the process of saying what was
colleagues and be denied tenure desired by senior colleaguresforseven |
because of his heresy. I know of we vee ag robbed them of joa |
hilosophy departments that will not pabesrs ear AN opponents claim t
P. phy ; tenure should be abolished since it
tolerate tenured phenomenologists fails to ‘ |
: ; f protect the academic freedom
that will not allow analytic philoso- of the nontenured and i
RRs illus ‘ nd may in fact
phers who utilize linguistic analysis to often setveed Eo ind 1 f |
j in their camp very long. ahd apsitean ae —"°
FO}OUTR the opportunity to speak freely.
This criticism uncovers the paradox But to throw out tenure because it
that the fear of not receiving tenure does not protect the academic free-
that younger men have becomes the dom of the nontenured wouldibe to
very device that prevents them from throw out the baby with the:bath
speaking their scholarly opinion. water. I f some without tenure are
Ironically, tenure invoked to protect afraid to speak out in their fields, why
academic freedom becomes, through should we abolish tenure and expose
abuse, the means by which dissent even greater numbers to threats and
becomes silenced, a very real denial of intimidatiqns when they give voice to
academic freedom. And I have heard scholarly dissent? Better to leave the \
many young colleagues say that they tenured protected with their academic
will not even hint of anything freedom intact and work to assure the
controversial until they receive te- academic freedom of the nontenured |
Goon monminG, AMD WELCOME
ve No THE FIRST LECTURE
OF “COMPARATIVE KELIGION S PARDON &
lou", Tonay, WE SHALL OF coy a2.
REAR ABUT THE JEWISH CHRISTIAN
AND MYSLEM FAITHS. | SS “THAT
ARE ala

They also benefit who mak

Tuesday's Senate elections. That is, last Tuesday’s
elections. Special congratulations belong to Tony
Snow who overcame tremendous odds and in less than
a week went from being a sort of political clown to the
senior class presidency. It was Snow who put
pictures of himself committing suicide, eating gruel
from a bowl, and praying for sympathy, near the voting
areas in an attempt to receive write-in votes in the first
elections held January'13. The next elestions on
January 20 included Snow on the ballot perhaps to
avoid another pictorial display of self-infatuation. The
whole situation was degrading to the SGA and the SGA
Senate who presumably would like to be more thana
source of humor to the students it serves.

the davidsonian
“The meaning of the message 1s tne cnange that it
produces in the image”- -Kenneth Boulding

Matthew Covington............... cece ccccceecescececeues Editor
GHuUCK KONNON.........0eeesecoecveceveseces Managing Editor
MONON Getirievcesesestenstetnuecssedcoot ees Business Manager

- Leoh Venable.................ccccccceeees Photography Editor
SUBANCOIBIN, ., co .ccsesccsecessccvecesess Production Manager
Richard Boyce....................08. ... Editorial Page Editor
PORTA, seks cicaciersereseccacveveeceecsh eae. News Editor
PMI oo ccc scevsdasyersiSeotieaceccenecves Sports Editor
Anne Ficklen................s:sss-ssseeeeeee Features Editor
David TrAdOr.. 0. Fe. oieds desc eceneecessts Advertising Manager
Rick Miller.........:.2ese+ ceeeeeeeeseeeeees Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by Students of

Davidson college. Second class postage paid at

Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to

The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.
Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

i} t

By ANTHONY ABBOTT
Professor of English

When I was in college I did not
write. I know that Princeton, like
most colleges and universities, had a

‘*serious’’ literary magazine and a
humor magazine. There were a small
number of students who wrote for
each magazine, and, during my years
at Princeton, both magazines were on
the verge of extinction because of
large scale student apathy toward
them. I suspect the same is true at
Davidson today: I see relatively little
student interest in writing. In this

_ article, I would like to explore some of

the reasons for that situation.

To begin with, most Davidson.

students are rational-analytical
types, rather than intuitive-feeling
types. They tend to handle the hard
sciences, mathematics, and econom-
ics very well. Many are preparing for
the study of medicine or law, both of
which reward those who have sharp,
analytical minds. Students of this
type excel at Davidson, and most of
them do not find writing particularly
congenial to their natures.

At the same time other students,
who may be more temperamentally
inclined to writing, do not find time
for it; or to put in different language,
they do not give writing a very high
priority in their schedules. There is a
tendency among Davidson students
to view writing as a luxury, some-
thing that one does as an “‘extra’’, if

~ one has leisure time. It might be fun

to write an occasional short story or
poem, but it is not something one
does as.a part of one’s normal,
everyday life. Thus the number of
students who write is severely limited
both by the temperament of the
average Davidson student and by the
demands of a Davidson schedule.

Some students feel that there would
be more and better writing done at
Davidson if it were more widely
encouraged by the faculty. I think
that is true, but before I develop that
point, I should mention what is being
done.

First of all, there are outlets for
student writing: The Miscellany, a
respected national literary magazine;
“Inside Art,”’ a recent addition to The

~ Davidsonian; and Inklings, an annual

publication of freshman writing spon-
sored by the English Department.
The Vereen Bell Prize and the

_ Windley Hall Prize give student.
writers both public recognition and

financial awards.

The English department, under the
leadership of Professors Purcell and
Holland, hosts an informal writing
group which meets.at faculty homes
to hear student and faculty work in
progress. Professor Paul Newman, a
poet from Queens College in Char-
lotte, teaches.an annual course in
creative writing, and students who

wish may take creative writing for

credit as independent study with
most members of the English. de-
partment. Given the demands on
their time, I think that most members

of the English department here do a
good job of supporting and encour-

creative writing on the part of
students.

But much more could be done, and
should be done if Davidson is to take
its role as a liberal arts college
seriously. Writing is one of the truly
humane and liberating acts that a
person may perform, and until a
larger number of students begin to
understand what writing is and why it
is important, we will continue to
neglect one of man’s highest monu-
ments: William Carlos Williams was a
doctor, Wallace Stevens an insurance
salesman, T. S. Eliot a bank clerk.

For them writing was a necessary

@act, not a frivolous pastime for their

leisure hours. It was the means by
which they could give written expres-
sions to the hopes and fears, the
longings and anxieties of their souls.
It was a means of self definition
through the imagination, a way of
reaching down through their outward
roles to the deeper recesses of the soul
for images to express their under-
standing of reality.

Whether one writes for publication
or not, the writing of poetry, fiction,
and personal journals and diaries can
become a means of personal growth,
an outlet for feelings, and a way of

‘ improving one’s way with words.

Writing can become a means of
sharpening one’s vision.

‘What you see is what you get,”
said Annie Dillard in Pilgrim at
Tinker Creek. If writers are more
