the davidsonian

January 23, 1976

8

Neighboring communities ignore
College, evolve apart from campus,
anticipate little need for change

By DAVE KELLER and
ROGER BROWN

What do the people of the nearby
towns of Mt. Mourne, Hick’s Cross-
‘roads, and Derita know about David-
son College? About as much as you
know about Mt. Mourne, Hick’s
Crossroads, and Derita.

In an attempt to discover just what
the people of the rural areas surround-
ing Davidson do know and think
about the college, we, two intrepid
reporters, held a series of random (in

every sense of the word) interviews

with area residents. We assumed that
these people had some knowledge of
the school and that it affected their
lives in some way; in both cases we
were wrong.

Of all people interviewed, only
those who had personal ties with the
college seemed to have any appreci-
able knowledge of it. In fact, most of
those questioned had never even set
foot on the campus.

Sports events did not even prove to
be a drawing card to area residents.
Although a number of the inter-
viewees said that their sons went to
Davidson games, most admitted that
they had never seen a football or

basketball game on camipus, and did ©

not keep up with Wildcat scores and

records.
A Mooresville alumnus did say,

however, that “if the basketball team
wins, people go see them; if not, they
stay at home.’’ Responses to the
question about Davidson’s cultural
influence led to the conclusion that, as
far as the college’s view is concerned,
these rural areas were a cultural
vacuum, a comment on Davidson’s

Friday, January 23, 1976

concept of ‘‘culture’’.

To those who live and study in Davidson, it may be
difficult to realize that the town has residents. Davidson
offers next to nothing to those outside the college
community; rather, rural residents are oriented toward
Mooresville, Kannapolis, and Concord. This fact leads to
the conclusion that the town’s insignificance contributes
to the college’s lack of impact upon the lives of area
residents. ;

Those interviewed were questioned about their
impression of Davidson students; their responses
indicated that they had favorable impressions of but little
contact with the students(which might explain the
matter). Most felt that Davidson students were a good
influence on the community. To quote one lady, “College
kids make the community a better place. They are more
sensible than high school kids. I guess all kids use dope
and liquor nowadays but when they get older they can

handle it better.”’

A Mooresville merchant felt that
Davidson students were still a good
bunch but that ‘‘they don’t stand out
from other young people as much as
they used to. They don’t dress up as
much.” :

A lakeside storekeeper was a little
less positive. When asked his impres-
sion of Davidson College, he res-
ponded immediately with ‘‘sorry foot-
ball team.’’ When we questioned him
further on the college’s influence he
said, ‘‘Good influence, but it don’t
help me none. I’d be a lot better off if
they’d move it over here in front of
my store.”

The most negative and lengthy
reply was from a lady who almost
wouldn’t respond at all; a little
perseverence, though, elicited from

her this reply to our question about
her impressions of Davidson College:

Bandwagon

All Day MIDWINTERS WEEKEND
All Day Photographs— Thomas Walters Stowe Galleries
2pm Swimming: William & Mary Davidson
8&11 pm Pop Film: ‘For Pete’s Sake”’ Perkins
TBA Semi-Formal Dance Banquet Hall
TBA Coffeehouse: Robin & Linda Williams 900 Room
Saturday, January 24, 1976
All Day MIDWINTERS WEEKEND
All Day Photographs— Thomas Walters Stowe Galleries
1pm Swimming: Richmond Davidson
2pm Basketball: South Carolina Charlotte Coliseum
Reception after Game 900 Room
8pm Concert: “‘Wet Willie”’ Love Auditorium
After concert Coffeehouse: Robin & Linda Williams 900 Room
Sunday, January 25, 1976
All Day Photographs— Thomas Walters Stowe Galleries
6:30 pm © Speaker: Dr. John Akers— Banquet Hall
“Bible in Today’s World” |

Monday, January 26, 1976

._ All Day Photographs— Thomas Walters Stowe Galleries
All Day ' Annual Pictures Morrison Room

“er

I heard Davidson was a Christian™
college, but it’s not any more.
Standards and principles are no
longer important over there.’’ She

cited several reasons for her opinion:
drinking, dancing (‘‘...just like at
Wake Forest!’’), girls in boys’ dorms.

Her strongest argument was her case
against evolution. ‘‘I didn’t come
from no monkey, but these colleges
are teaching evolution in the classes.”’

She sees a strong correlation be-
tween these decaying standards and
Communism. All of these moral
breakdowns and other changes such
as admitting girls are, in her opinion,

q

7pm Women’s Basketball: Mars Hill Mars Hill, N.C. 3
8:15 pm Fifth Annual Alumni Organ Recital “= DEPC >
Series: Paul R. Jenkins, Steson University

‘ §

Tuesday, January 27, 1976 $
All Day Photographs— Thomas Walters Stowe Galleries ¢
- All Day Annual Pictures Morrison Room >}
All Day Rehearsal & Production of Hodson Hall g
Drama Workshop 9

9am Interviews: Branch Banking & Trust Chambers 07 $
10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer Lounge g
12pm Share-It-With-Your-Brother Meal Banquet Hall 4
4pm Military History Small Conference Room §
Documentary Film Series 4

7 pm Worship Service DCPC $
7:30 pm Basketball: Duke Durham, N.C. ¢
8pm Speaker: Sheikh Rustum Ali of Morrison Room >
the Embassy of Bangladesh $

q

Wednesday, January 28, 1976 2
All Day Photographs— Thomas Walters Stowe Galleries %
All Day Annual Pictures Morrison Room ;
All Day Drama Workshop— Plays II Hodson Hall, 4
TBA Author: Merle Miller—‘‘Plain Speaking”’ 9
An‘éral biography of Harry S. Truman g

10am Speaker: Sheikh Rustum Ali of Banquet Hall ?
the Embassy of Bangladesh $

4pm Film: “‘Shakespeare: Soul of an Age’”’ Honors Center §
7pm Women’s Basketball: Anderson Davidson $
Junior College ;

»

Thureday, January 29, 1976 | 4
9am Interviews: First Tennessee Chambers 07 4
National Corp. $

9am Interviews: Lehigh Small Conference Room 4
Portland Cement >

10 am Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall 3
8pm Basketball: University of Charlotte Coliseum ?
California at Santa Barbara g

aberrations from the purpose of the
founding fathers of the college.

The interview which best illumin-
ated the ‘‘typical’’ attitudé towards
Davidson was from a venerable
octegenarian who was casually mean-
dering to some dubious destination.
When confronted with a request for
his opinions about the college, he
articulately responded, ‘‘Louder,
please!” In order to tap more deeply
into his piercing insight, we followed,
with a question about his impressions
of students. After a pensive moment
of silence he declared, “‘you want to
go to Davidson, just go through
Cornelius and take a left.”’

