A the davidsonian

April 30, 1976

The circulating fear

“While certain rights are granted to students under law,
the law is not always clear in respect to these rights,
especially in the case of private institutions.” ...“Legalism!,
Legalism!,” cries the insulted professor reading the
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities.
“Legalism undermines the basic person to person trust that
Davidson has valued for so long. The students don’t trust us
anymore and if this document passes we'll all wind up in the
courts arguing about unfair and capricious grading!"

A student passing by this professor's door stops and
listens. He hears the professor and begins to wonder where
things got so out of control. He reflects on his relationship
to the faculty. Frankly, it would never enter his head to take
a professor to court. The student curses the Governance
Subcommittee that wrote/is re-writing the statement of
rights. Apparently, what seemed like a fairly harmless
document stating some rights he already thought he had
was turning out to be a violation of the ideals Davidson
hoids most dear. Apparently, it was sending students and
faculty to their respective fox-holes to do battle, each side
frantically dragging with it any artillery it could lay its hands

on. What was happening? Up until this point the student did
not know that there were sides to be taken. He had always

AH SAY,
A LITTLE
CLEAN
FUN NEVER
HURT
NOBODY!
AIN’T THAT.
RIGHT,

tne Gawiasonian

Mat. COVITIIOND «goo oc oe 568 Ss Hey ce dws od oem Editor
KOT UIENIEI 5 oe ik vo dis Scns hos eons oe Managing Editor
TRA MION oo 55 0550 .b ba 0 So's 5 Siete sits aes Business Manager
IM i oe dias ess es Photography Editor
II ks es. Production Manager
GUURIMILEOINO ss 65 a cutie nk ss ec cee Editorial Page Editor
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall ............... Sports Editors
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis ................ Features Editors
De TTL So on 5s ee ae + ads s oe ea ree Advertising Manager
Rob Mitchell ....... ae « Witenes a! die 088 « Os Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of
Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

thought of professors as over-grown students who got paid
for being academians. Apparently this was not the case.
Professors were different from students, and now that
difference caused them to hole-up in their Offices and worry
about what students were gcing to do to them.

The situation which now exists in some minds, that which
has students writing new drafts of Article 12, throwing them
at the faculty and then running for cover, is greatly
exaggerated. But the fact that any situation exists that can
be inflated into this exaggeration is tragic. In areal sense,
someone has got to start trusting soon or the inflated

problem will blow up in our faces.

~We believe that the current draft of Article 12 was
presented by students to the faculty in good faith. it was not
designed to be something that students continually tested
to see if it was true. Rather, it was a statement of something
students believed to be true already. Probably, it was an
imperfect affirmation of these truths. The new draft will be
better. We hope that students and faculty will benefit from
the interaction involved with creating the new draft. It is the
realization that the Statement of Student Rights and
Responsibilities cannot create person to person trust and
that no one intends for it to undermine the already existent
trust that must carry us through. Come out. The war is

over.

Reed sobers up KA’s
‘blackened’ brothers

By ANN REED
Staff Writer

The following passage is taken from
a book published by the National
Administrative Office of the Kappa
Alpha Order, entitled Pledge Edu-
cation for Initiation into Kappa Alpha
Order (pp. 62-63):

“Kappa Alpha Order is southern in
origin, but it is not sectional... The
Order is southern in a significant
sense wherein its essential teachings
are for its members to cherish the
ideal of character and attributes of the
true gentlemen... We would remind
each (pledge) brother that his actions
on the campus and elsewhere reflect
on the entire Order and the active
chapter which has chosen him.”’

The Kappa Alpha chapter at Dav-
idson is indeed distinguished from the
other fraternities by this emphasis on
the South and the southern gentle-
man, the epitome is Robert E. Lee.

I understand that in past years the

| chapter at Davidson has been reputed

to have carried certain southern
emphases to an extreme; it has been
accused of ‘‘southern extremism’’ (I
use this term for lack of a more
appropriate one) and, to some extent,
racial prejudice. I also understand
that in the past few years the chapter
has become,aware of these opinions
and accusations and has sought to
refute them verbally and by its
actions.

There may have been such at-
tempts made and some of them may
have been successful. But, any suc-
cesses that may have been made have
now, in my opinion, been effaced by
Old South 1976. I am referring to the
square dance held on the night of the
twenty-third where the pledges were
required to blacken their faces.

The decision in favor of the
blackening of the pledges’ faces was
reached by a vote taken by the
brothers in the house. There was a
diversity of opinion on the issue, but
those having doubts were reassured
that there were no racial connotations
—in reenacting the ‘‘drama’’ of the
Old South the pledges would merely
be playing a role, so to speak.

I have talked to a few pledges and
some of them did have definitely
mixed emotions concerning this deci-
sion; a few pledges mentioned their
reservations to the brothers, but some

didn’t because I gather they felt a
certain pressure to conform.

This pressure was probably caused
by the pledges’ realization that some-
how, as pledges, they had to be
separated or set apart from the other
brothers—the blackening of their
faces was supposedly used as this
separating factor.

I do not understand this pressure
for I am not involved in a sorority or
any other organization of this sort.
But, I think I may understand the
feelings of those pledges and brothers
who did have doubts on the matter.

Undoubtedly, one wants to become
initiated with as little harassment as
possible. Therefore, I am not writing
to promote my moral views. I cannot
in complete fairness publicly pass
moral judgment on the pledges who
blackened their faces or on those who
made the ruling for them to do so.

But, I can and do accuse the KA’s
of a grave miséake in judgment. In
their enthusiasm, they probably did
not consider the APMC. of their
decision.

If, indeed, there are efforts ‘to
remove the label of prejudice formerly
applied to them, and if there was no
prejudice involved in the making of
the decision, the decision itself seems
to deny these allegations.

Upon learning of the decision, my
initial reaction was one of dismay. I
was assured that there was no
prejudice on the part of the brothers
so I can only assume that this is true.

But, judging from the strength of
my own reactions I think it safe to
assume that others share my feelings.

It must be admitted that Friday
night’s events could be interpreted as
being racially prejudiced and undigni-
fying. Indeed, similar actions (not
necessarily those of KA) have rightly
been so judged in the past. Who is to
know that this event is different?

Again, I am not passing moral
judgment. My only comment is that if
the KA's are concerned about their
reputation, they should be reminded
that their actions ‘‘on the campus and
elsewhere reflect on the entire Order
and the active chapter."’

In other words, I would seriously
urge the KA's to consider the
implications of their decisions and to
endeavor to employ better, more
thoughtful judgment in the future.
