the davidsonian October 1, 1976

Article Xil of College Constitution

[Continued from page 3]

2. The Academic Process.

a, Freedom of Expression in the Classroom.
Students are responsible for learning thoroughly the
content of any course of study, but are free.to take
reasoned exception to data or views offered. Only by
protection of this freedom may productive discussion,
inquiry, and expression serve as means toward
learning.

b. Evaluation. Students are responsible for
maintaining fair and reasonable standards of academic
performance established by their professors as
appropriate to the work of a particular course. Where
disagreements about the reasonableness of evaluation
arise, students have the right to appeal through
appropriate channels.

c. Disclosure. Information about student views,
beliefs, and political association which instructors and
counselors acquire in confidence is considered
privileged. Protection of the student from improper
disclosure of such information is a serious

professional obligation.
_ d. Academic Eligibility. Students are responsible for
adhering to the Academic Regulations, which establish
standards of performance. Only if a student fails to
meet these standards may he be required to withdraw
for academic deficiency. In such acase, the student is
accorded the right of due process.

3. Student Records.

a. Confidentiality. Student academic, disciplinary,
medical, and counseling records held by the College
shall be maintained separately. Records kept for their
own use by individual professionals associated with
the College are considered their property. All those
who hold or supervise the holding of student records
shall respect their confidential nature in accordance
with applicable law and ethical standards. Guidelines
regarding the maintenance and retease of information
from student records held either by the College or by
associated professionals shall be set forth in the
College Registry.

b. Right to Inspect. Students have the right, subject
to waiver, to inspect and review their own records,
expect as specifically excluded by law or by College
regulations under applicable law. They may challenge
any information which they consider inaccurate.
Procedures for correcting errors on a student's
transcript shall be established in the College Registry.
Students have the right to have inserted statements of
rebuttal or explanation into other files which they
consider inaccurate or misleading, so long as copies of
such statements are made available to those directly
involved in making statements which are challenged.

c. Access. Only those employees of the College with
reasonable grounds for access to student files, or other
persons who have the expressed permission of the
student, may have access to student records, unless
such access |s otherwise permitted by law.
Confidential information so obtained shall continue to
be treated as confidential.

4. Association.
Students are free to organize and join associations

of their own choice. To receive SGA funds, an o

organization must be chartered. The authority to
charter on-campus student organizations is delegated
to the SGA, subject to the relevant provisions of Article
XI of this Constitution. Chartered student
organizations are open to all students without regard to

face, creed, sex, or national origin.

5. Expression and Assembly.

a. Expression. The College may not infringe upon
the rights of students, particularly those of freedom of
speech, of peaceable assembly, and the right of
petition. The student Is both a citizen and a member of
the College. The student who speaks or writes in his
capacity as citizen should make it clear that he is
spokesman for neither the College nor the students
within it, but must remember that others may judge the

* College ahd its students by his utterances and actions.

The student has the obligation to exhibit accuracy,
appropriate restraint, and respect for the opinions of
others.

b. Assembly. Students and their organizations are
free to examine and discuss all questions of interest
and to_express opinions publicly and privately. They
are also free to support issues by orderly means which
do not disrupt operations essential to the function of
the College, which shall establish reasonable
regulations, equitably applied, as to time, manner, and
place of assembly.

c. Speakers. Students and their organizations may
invite and hear speakers, performers, and entertainers
of their choice, utilizing procedures established as
necessary to assure orderly scheduling of and
preparation for campus events. Institutional control of
campus facilities may not be used to prevent the
appearance of a person or group which has been
properly scheduled. Students have the responsibility of
realizing that events on the campus affect the public
image of the College and of its students, and should
invite only those who may be seriously considered to
have potential contributions to the exchange of ideas
or to the quality of campus life. Sponsorship by
student organizations should be clearly publicized.

d. Student Responsibility. Students have the
responsibility not to infringe upon the rights of others,
particularly as concerning free speech and peaceable
assembly.

6. Student Media.

a. The College affirms its commitment to the
principles of free expression and free exchange of
ideas. Exercised with responsibility and
accountability, these freedoms are essential to
maintain the campus as an open forum for the
expression and examination of ideas, however
unpopular. The College encourages publications
written and edited by students as vehicles for the
transmission of information, community evaluation,
and creative expression.

b. Publications written and edited by students, but
which may not be considered to have the College as
publisher, are subject orily to public law and to
reasonable regulations concerning manner of
on-campus distribution. Student editors of
publications for which the College legally may be
considered publisher are authorized to determine and
are responsible for content and editorial policy, in
accordance with the provisions of this Constitution
and subject to Article V of the By-Laws of the
Trustees of Davidson College. They may be removed
only for proper and stated cause and are accorded due
process in any removal proceedings, including notice
of charges and the right to be heard by the body ruling
upon them. Student, faculty, administrative, or public
disapproval of content or editorial policy may not be
the sole grounds for removal.

c. Student managers of electronic media staffed by
Students are accorded the same rights and
responsibilities as editors of student publications.

7. Student Participation in Institutional Government.

Students shall have clearly defined means of
participation in the formulation of and, where
appropriate, the application of College policy. Student
affairs shall be free from intervention which does not
accord with the provisions of this Constitution. No
student may be denied the right to vote by secret ballot
in SGA elections.

8. Standards of Disciplinary Procedure.

To protect its educational purposes, the College sets
Standards of conduct and estab!ished regulations for
the use of its facilities in accord with this Constitution.
To develop through discipline’a climate of responsible
Student conduct, the College emphasizes counseling,
guidance, admonition, and example. Disciplinary
proceedings may be instituted only for violation of the .
Code of Responsibility, the Code of Disciplinary
Procedure, or the College Regulations.
