4 the davidsonian

January 16, 1976

LLPELLLLPELSLELE LE LDLL ILIA SLY Ed
)

CMELLLLEELELLEOLELEEL ED DELLE A

RASA

~~

SGA senate reverses
decisions, fouls

credibility

The perase 55h President, Bo Besicin uses is ~ extorcing the Girectives
A tea BGA By taws.”’ ...

Bown wee endorcang hes interpretation of these Garectives when te
slowed Howard Payne und Dean Uidund to run for the office of cass
wenatin wat Gott that. Bro Paleeer Tony Seow and Steve Sperge
ontld mt.

Nien A these five were im weniaes wt on al comdadanee meeting
whith wee held January 9. Prior to Christanes bresk i was made clear tx
ime Comtistatsr nad Snibere te attend the meting would result

Baskin sien wee exdorcing his mterpretation of the SGA By-laws
Tuesiay night when. ster the election wes held, ne recommended to
Gaurge Bawty that the results of the recent election be thrown out and 2
new ont be scheduled. “This new election will inchude all the candidates.
regains A thes aendunce 2 an al) candidates mecting.

Keoty, a2 BGA Election Council Chairman, is authorized to meke
proviesons tox ¢ new eection. He secepted Baskin's suggestion.

In the now disqualified elections for senator from the Class of 1977 Joe
Lagan recieved 8 vote, Lynn Keener recieved 8%, Sabra Faires 61.
Howard Payne 44, Bob Mitchell 21, and Tony Snow 57 invalid write-in
VN

When Palmer and Snow are allowed on the ballot next week these
political fortunes or mistorvanes will change.

eve Sparger’s introduction into the Class of 1978 race will affect
David Tinkler, who recieved 113 votes, Steve Smith who got 82, D.C.
Augustine with 70, and Jim Ervin with 62.

Perhaps Ube best thing would be if all the original winners won again.
Then the situation would be like two children in a playground dispute
whved by a ’'take over.”

The sevund time yields the same result. and both children figure
everything is all right.

Because A guilt feelings , the threatened resignation of the Senate
Parliamentatian, or the buycott of the senate meeting Tuesday, the SGA
has indead called for a ‘take over.” The playground has simply shifted to
the Union conference room.

By deciding originally to exclude Palmer, Snow and Sparger from the
dection, holding the election, and attempting to convene a senate
maxing to swear in the winners of the election, the SGA and its officers
who strive to enforce 8G.A directives made a solid stand. pe

The decision was based on the fact that Payne and Eklund were only
minutes late to the all candidates meeting, while Palmer, Snow and
Sparger forgot to come at all until an hour later,

Whétther Baskin made the best choice is debateable, but as an official
f the BGA he made the choice in good faith for the students who elected
him.

By reversing the original decision and calling for a new election, the
SGA officials appear to be somewhat less than equal to their tasks as
student representatives, »

The authority they have is comprised now and for this instance. If
Payne and Eklund belong on the first ballot and Palmer, Snow and
Sparger do not, then it cannot also be true that Palmer, Snow and
Sparger are eligible for the same election held a week later.

By reversing decisions and changing minds, the SGA officials have
effectively removed themselves from the authority and responsibility of
deciding who belongs in the class senator elections. The responsibility is
now turned to the voter.

If Payne and Eklund belong in the election because they did meet the
only election official present at the all candidates meeting while that
Official was still in the meeting room, then they deserve to be considered
as candidates in good ;

Payne and Eklund are equally guilty with Palmer, Snow and Sparger
for missing the meeting, then the appearance of any of the five on the
ballot should be counted as immaterial and votes for these people should
not be cast,

The absence of the elections council chairman at the all candidates
meeting, although it is not a violation of the By-laws pertaining to the
meeting, may mean to some that all the candidates who originally filed .
should be eligible.

Voters will still vote for those people they feel are most qualified but
another question, as silly as the whole situation itself must be asked.
That is; who belongs on the ballot?’

—_

Empty union requires
new student attitudes

Edin) Pape Ein

Wander throug te nev onli
union Selure tne Depimming vt this
schoo] year 1 wis commu) soruck
by the discovery af LET ae
clean, bright. comiurtaitiz pas One
could not help but heve « feeling of
emptiness

But. at that time. suck feelings
were tempered by the rezlization that
over 1000 students were on the way
Imagined gatheri filled the empty
spaces.

Leaving the Snack Bar after supper
last Friday night, I pesses the TV.

room and noticed the lights off. -

Inanely curious, I cut them on. The
room was empty.

Yet, this was a different breed of
emptiness. The presence of the prev-
iously absent student body, trans-
formed its vacancy from the empti-
ness of potential to the emptiness of
waste. :

Activity at the College union
centers on two areas: the Snack Bar
and the 900 Room. While: such
centralization appears harmless, it
points out not only space wastage,
but the psychology of the student
body toward the facility.

Considered as a whole, Davidson
students enter the Union only for
quite specific purposes, such as eating
or a show. As such, the Union
functions as only a combination
cafeteria-auditorium. No one, or cer-
tainly very few, go to the Union just
to be going , just to sit around, just to
gather, just to take a break. The

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits
letters to the editor on any
subject. All letters for pub-
lication must be typed and
signed. We reserve the
right to.edit letters over 300
words in length.

Letters received in The
Davidsonian offices ‘by
Sunday night will Ordinarily
be printed that week.

Union exists neither as a hub or a
gethering spot. It remains empty
between performances.

This phenomenon is certainly un-

" gerstandable. The library remains

the social center on the Davidson
campus. While this behavior is cer-
tainly a reflection on the basic
priorities of the Davidson student, it
can also be explained in a slighty
more desirable fashion.

Those of us here before the new
Union, faced with the gloomy,
“crampedness”’ of the old, had almost
no other choice. Of course, there were
exceptions. Certain freshman halls
created a real atmosphere of open
visitation. A few hardy extroverts
were able to enter Watts ina truly
casual fashion.

‘But, for the large majority, the
library remained the only place where
one was guaranteed a gathering of
students. This building was the only
place one could just ‘‘bump into”
someone, where visiting could be a
random rather than a planned under-
taking. The openess and visibility of
the new library proved even more

conducive to this behavior than the
old.

What is needed is a change in the
psychology of the student in relation
to the Union’s function. The Union
does not need.to create more extra-
vagant performances. Lack of oppor-
tunity is not the real problem behind
Davidson's bland social life. Despite
professed maturity, Davidson stu-
dents of both sexes face dating and
social life in general in a formal,
almost high-schoolish manner. The
Union, as a focus casual ‘*gather-
ing,”’ offers the key to building some
type of community feeling past the
freshman hall.

When students, coming back to a
break in their routines, begin to say,
‘‘Let’s drop by the Union and see
what’s going on,” we will be on the
way toward truly utilizing one of the
most impressive facilities on campus.
Until the chatting crowds move from
the library, until ‘‘seeing who's If
becomes a viable excuse for entering
the building, the union will remain a
place of wastefully empty space.
