=== 6

the davidsonian

April 30, 1976

By LYMAN COLLINS
Asst. News Editor

‘Tuesday, the Activities Tax
Council received SGA appro-
val for next year’s allocation of
funds to SGA chartered
organizations.

Each year students pay an
$80 activity fee as part of their
comprehensive fee. From that,
$40 goes to the Union and $40
goes to the Activities Tax
Council. :

“All SGA chartered organi-
zations can apply for funding
from us,”’ explained Activities
Tax Council Chairman Steve

Barnes. ‘‘We go over their.

submitted budgets line by line
and decide what can be cut.”’

Next year, the total budget
will be $51,470 compared with
$50,010 for this year. All of
the organizations requested
amounts totaling $58,694 but
the Council made the neces-
sary cuts.

‘We usually cut out any-
thing labeled contingency
fund,’’ continued Barnes;
“anything that nebulous can
usually be cut.”

Almost all organizations
will receive increases over the

amounts they received this
year.

The Black Student Coalition
will receive the same amount
they got this year, $1300 and
the Artist Series will receive
$70 less for a total of $6,930.

The BSC had originally
requested for next year a
total of $2500, representing
the largest percentage jump.

Barnes said he thought the
jump represented ‘‘ambition
on their part for both black
and white students to become

’ more attuned to the black

experience on campus.”

Barnes explained that the
reason the BSC did not receive
an increase was due to the
creation of the new Minorities
Activities Committee under
the Union Board.

‘‘We don’t like to cut any
money, but we have to cut
somewhere. We hope we were
right in thinking that some
black needs would be met by
the Minorities Activities Com-
mittee,’”” said Barnes.

The Artist Series budget
was cut over this year’s be-
cause next year the Union is
going to probide $5000 in
addition to the money pro-
vided by teh Council.

“The main organizations we
fund are the media: The
Davidsonian and Quips and
Cranks alone account for over
half the budget,” he said.
The Miscellany, Wildcat

' Handbook and WDAV are

also funded through the Coun-
cil: The SGA and Residence
Hall Council round out the list
of organizations.

The.Council was restruct-
ured this year. Previously it
had been known as The Cam-
pus Tax Council, but it was
changed to allow greater stu-

dent and Senate participation.

‘‘The Senate felt that on
something as important as
funding the Senate, as the

student’s representative,
should have a stronger voice,”
said Barnes.

The committee is composed
of three faculty members,
three students, three senators,
and a chairman. Also this year

Activities Tax
Council requests

total $58,694

for the first time the Senate
has the right to approve or
disapprove of items budgeted
on an individual basis instead
of the whole thing.

Barnes also pointed out tha
the activity fee is not sched-
uled to increase. ‘‘The stu-
dents on the Council felt we
had to help try to keep
Davidson from getting too
expensive,’’ Barnes con-
cluded.

_.. Departments seek new blood

[Continued from page 1]

selected by the department. These eleven were
interviewed for 30-40 minutes each at the meeting of
the American Philosophical Association in New
York over the Christmas holidays. The group of
eleven candidates was then narrowed down to three
who were brought to Davidson for ‘“‘more extended
interviews,’ according to Abernathy.

Each of these three stayed for two days, gave one
class lecture, read a prepared paper to an ‘informal
gathering” of majors and members of the depart-
ment, met with a group of faculty members, and ate
breakfast with philosophy students. Each was then
interviewed separately by members of the depart-

ment, and the vice president and president of the
College.
New Man to replace Dr. Davidson

The department gave its recommendation to the
Vice President of Academic Affairs who in turn gave
his recommendation to the President. The result of
this process was the hiring of Dr. Lance Stell.

Malcolm Lester, chairman of Davidson’s history
department, spoke briefly on the hiring process and
final selection for the vacancy in the history
department resulting from Dr. Chalmers Davidson’s
retirement.

Of the ‘‘vast number of applications’ —approxi-
mately 100 in all—sent to the history department by
applicants interested in obtaining the teaching post,
four were interviewed, said Lester.

The new professor, already chosen, will ‘‘help with |

the Western Civilization survey courses” and also

‘teach American Diplomacy and Social History

courses. ‘Eventually, in one or two years, the new

man will take over Dr. Johnston’s work,’’ when

Johnston retires, said Lester. Dr. Johnston pre-

sently teaches courses in recent American history.
Classics picks proven quantity

Dirk French, acting chairman of the Classics
department worked in conjunction with Dr. George
Labban, chairman of the department, in the hiring
of the new Classics professor.

Following the customary procedure, the depart-
ment had advertised in a publication of the National
Professional Association, the American Philological
Association. The dossiers subsequently received
were narrowed down before the national meetings in
Washington, held during the last week in December.
At these conferences, Laban and French each
interviewed 25 candidates.

The candidates which appeared most capable as a

result of their dossier and Washington interview
were then brought to Davidson. While here, they ate
with department members and met with faculty
outside of the department, principal administrators,
and majors and other students in the department.

“There is a desire to sell on both sides,’’ French
commented. Furthermore, there are ‘‘many groups
to be pleased”’ before a final decision can be made in
the filling of a department’s opening. ;

Said French, ‘‘The Trustees, administration,
students and faculty peers are all looking for
something different (in the candidates).”

French considers the ‘‘community question’’ to be
an additional problem. For example, how well will an
urbanite from New York City fit into the life style of
the rural south? Or, if married to a woman with her
own professional interests, what opportunities does
the community offer his wife? ‘‘There are many,
many considerations,’’ said French.

Mark Davies, the man chosen to fill the teaching
position, has taught previously at Davidson for two
years. He left three years ago to work on a research
post funded by Housing, Education, and Welfare.
Davies, who had enjoyed a popular reputation at the
College, both among faculty and among students,
according to French, will be teaching courses in Art
and Archaeology. Noted French, ‘‘He is a proven
quantity.”

Walker seeks bilingual

Hallam Walker, chairman of the French depart-
ment, cited ‘‘professional competence and exper-
ience’’ as the two qualifications he considered to be
the most important when he reviewed the candidates
for the new position in his department.

After inquiring of chairmen in graduate schools,
“chiefly of those we knew and had faith in,’’ said
Walker, and after advertising in the National
Language Association job information list, the
French department received approximately 500
letters. Members of the department read through
these and narrowed the list down to twelve
candidates.

“After collaborating with the Vice President of
Academic Affairs, who is in charge of the recruiting
budget,’”’ continued Walker, three candidates were
invited to Davidson.

“Ultimately, the department made recommen-
dations to the Vice President and President,” and a
final choice was made.

We looked for people with good experience wfid
promise,”’ said Walker. The one chosen ‘‘must be
professionally oriented, and must keep up with
what’s going on‘in the field. He must be active

professionally — by publishing and going to and
keeping up with the meetings, and he must be
effective and dynamic.”

Furthermore, he must be ‘‘virtually bilingual’
and will usually have lived abroad for a while. In
conclusion, Walker said, ‘‘The first stress must
always be in language teaching and knowledge of
contemporary culture.’

The incumbent French professor is arriving from a
teaching position in Montpelier.

Spanish position open

The Spanish department, under the chairmanship
of Lois Kemp, is still in the process of finding a
professor to fill the new position in the department
created as a result of faculty expansion. The
candidate finally chosen will be the third professor in
the department.

After putting notices in professional journals,
contacting individuals, and collecting dossiers,
Kemp, with the aid of a faculty committee composed
of the chairmen of the other language departments,
one member of the English department, and Dr.
mips “to get input from other people.”’

“You don’t know how much you can rely on them
(the dossiers),’’ said Kemp. ‘‘You have to read
between the lines as the chairman (of the candidate’s
university job placement service) wants to be
successful in placing students.’

Commenting on her own criteria for judging
candidates, Kemp said, ‘‘A dossier that is less
brilliant is less important to me than his functioning
in the classroom. My primary concern is classroom
teaching because I think that’s what Davidson is
about.’

Kemp is hoping to find a teacher who will be able
and willing to create a study abroad program in
Latin America, expand the departments offering in
Latin American studies, and work at the require-
ment courses level as well. Because Kemp was not
aware that a third professor was to be hired for the
upcoming school year until March of this year, she
was not able to attend the professional meeting held
during the last week in December for the purpose of
interviewing candidates.

Additionally, she did not originally ‘‘go down to
lists of eminent scholars, such as Wilson and
Fulbright scholars, and solicit nominations.”

Until a candidate is found who can satisfy Dr.
Kemp’s and the College’s criteria, the space in the
department will be temporarily filled by a professor
who will be given a one-year contract for the 1976-77
academic year.
