the davidsonian

December 10, 1976

mes

Clark exudes passionate concern

By KEVIN SHELLY
Senior News Editor

Dr. Kenneth B. Clark seems at first
the calm, quiet, academician. His
tone is quiet; soothingly professional.
Years of facing a classroom have
polished his slow, complete coverage
of whatever topic is being discussed.
His formal talks are so carefully
developed that they are almost ted-
ious.

Then how is it that he has been so
exceptionally influential in redirecting
government and industry’s attitudes
toward racial discriminiation? Precis-
ely because of his deceptively schol-
arly tones.

His aims are those of passion but he
arms himself with cold hand empiri-
cism and presents them without
shrillness. He fits what the bureau-
crats and captains of industry have
decided a professor should be.

They probably know nothing of his

fatherless upbringing in the heart of
Harlem, attending Howard because
he was black, earning a doctorate at
the height of the Depression.

These influences are all there
behind the mask of the academician
and only occasionally does Clark
allow that inner passion to bubble
through, the pose, complete with a
disarming Scotch and even present
cigarettes at hand.

Despite his classroom years Clark
is uncomfortable in formal lecture
settings. Civil rights and racial
attitudes were the topics he chose for
those settings but his complete
concerns as a human being, not just a
detached social scientist were hidden
in these settings.

During the course of the day he
talked of education, capital punish-
ment, and political involvement but
seldom directly of his professional.
concerns. Instead they became a part

Wood pushes Externs

“During Spring break, February
28-March 4, fifty students will be
testing out career interests with
top-level alumni practitioners from
New York City to New Orleans,” says
Ken Wood, Director of Experiential
Programs and Life/Work Planning.

Wood reports that 30 people have
already registered. For example, Bill
Muldoon will be investigating a career
in oral surgery at the Chapel Hill
School of Dentistry, Melody Wilder
will be checking out urban politics
with the Atlanta City Council, Caro-
line Cromartie will be working with
architects and city planners in Wash-
ington, D.C., Dave Beard will be
spending the week with a mountain

doctor.

Michael Quay has been placed with
the head of a legal department for a
large corporation in Atlanta. Ernest
Barry anticipates a week of bar
tending at Pat O’Brien’s in New
Orleans. Bob Whitaker will be in-
volved with top executives with the
Southern Railway in Washington,
D.C.

According to Wood, the deadline
for registering in the Extern Program
is December 16.

Students who want to sign up are
invited to fill out a form in the
Experiential Programs Office giving
first and second priority for career
and location before 5 pm on December
16.

... Barnes unoppsed.

[Continued from page 4]
Miscellany

Junior Bill Barnes is unopposed as
a candidate for Miscellany editor. He
worked with The Davidsonian for his
first two years in college and this year
switched over to the Miscellany.
Although he is unsure of some of the
technical details involved with put-
ting out the magazine, he feels
confident that he can work with the
present co-editors to master the job.

He believes that most students
think the Miscellany is “kinda bor-
ing”’, so his major concern will be to
‘add variation and life’ to the
magazine. He hopes to accomplish
this by the use of photographs and
graphic art. He wants to broaden the
magazine’s base from just stories and
poems to include things such as
articles.

Barnes

9OO0ROoom alters times

By CATHY LANDIS
Executive Editor

The 900 Room happy hour crowd
will be forced to move their Thursday
through Saturday celebrations from 5
pm to 8 pm. The 900 Room has
changed its hours from Monday
through Wednesday 8 pm to 1 am to a
new time of Monday through Satur-
day from 8 pm til] 1 am.

William Brown, Assistant Director
of the College Union, names limited
use as the primary reason for the

move. Only a few people were using
the early, hours. The 900 Room
consequently was wasted space be-
tween 5 and 8 pm on Thursdays.

“The new hours free us to use the
room for groups needing it for special
functions,’’ Brown said.

Another motive behind the change
is cost. The extended weekend hours
cause Ron Scott and ARA Slater to
lose a minimum of $40 a week.

The Executive Committee of the
Union in conjunction with Scott voted
to put the change in motion.

of his total concerns as an intensely
aware member of society.

Education was his recurrent con-
cern. Clark has an almost Enlight-
enment era belief in the power of
education to change society for the
better. His feeling is strong that some
of the quality has been co-opted by
schools which seek to enfranchise
longer and more diverse elements of
the total population but the result is a
distinctively second rate student.

Challenge was implicit in his milieu
and he obviously feels that some of
that was distinctively positive.

Politically his aim is equal justice
but he sees no quick and easy way to
this. Primarily he focused on the need
to adhere a moral standard and
motivate others to dedicate them-

IIS

DANCE:

selves to actively do the same.

Clark strongly condemned those
who do what is expedient and pretend
that it is anything but he does find a
place in his feelings for those who do
so honestly and openly, as did Dean
Rusk when he told him that the
Foreign Service had to include more
minorities, not because it was good or
right, but because that was what the
reality of the world situation deman-
ded.

Kenneth Clark is that rare combin-
ation of passionate concern and reas-
oned reaction that ultimately does
more to influence and change atti-
tudes than a hundred voices raised in
anger because those with the power to
change things accept him and his
thoughts.

oa”

SB -
Ate y, « '
oe
sae & a?
Te ae «

IM THE

REAL WoRLO

Through December 12: The Southern Ballet of Atlanta will present its
Fifth Annual performance of ‘‘Christmas with Hans Christian
Anderson” at the Alliance Theatre, Atlanta Memorial Arts Center.
Featured will be the music of Benjamin Britten. Details: (404) 262-3730

or (404) 233-5831.

December 15 and 16: ‘“‘The Nutcracker Suite’, a Christmas classic.
Presented by the North Carolina School of the Arts and the Charlotte
Symphony. Ovens Auditorium. Wednesday 9:30 am and 8:15 pm.
Thursday 9;30 am. Details: Spirit Square, 110 East Seventh Street,

Charlotte, 28202.

THEATRE:

Now playing: Imogene Coca and King Donovan in Neil Simon’s ‘‘Plaza
Suite’’ at the Midnight Sun Dinner Theatre, Atlanta.

Through December 11: ‘‘Hedda Gabler” by Hendrick Ibsen. Presented
by the University of South Carolina Theatre Department, Columbia,
S.C. at 8:15 pm in Drayton Hall. $1 for students.

December. 11 and 12: ‘The Young Vic’, England’s Acclaimed Repertory
Company will present ‘‘The Taming of the Shrew?” on December 11 at 3
and 8 pm, and ‘‘Oedipus’’ on December 12 at 3 and 8 pm, in North
Carolina State University’s Stewart Theatre. For details and the last few

seats: (919) 737-3105.

Through December 12: ‘“‘Night Must Fall’ presented by the Durham
Theatre Guild at 8 pm at the Durham Arts Council, 810 West Proctor

Street, Durham, N.C.

MUSIC:

December 31; Lou Reed at the Atlanta Civic Center, 8 pm. Tickets are

$6.50 and $7.50.

January 17: Dave Brubeck at NCSU Stewart Theatre at 7:30 pm. Details
(because I might have the date wrong): P.O. Box 5217, Raleigh, or (919)

737-3105.

FILM:

December 10 and 11: “‘Cover Girl’’ with Rita Hayworth and Gene Kelly
at the Main Branch of the Charlotte Public Library.

ART:

December 15 through January 15: Photographs by Andre Naggar at the

Whites Factory, Charlotte.

December 19: Wearable Arts Presentation. Mint Museum, Charlotte, 2

pm.

SPECIAL:

December 10, 11, and 12: The Singing Christmas Tree in Ovens

Auditorium.

