st MD

the davidsonian

March 19, 1976

ef ee
een A tee Sone
ate

|

- te “EXTENDED

poate STU OIES=-

uk ——— STEPS

ae a
3 3
pemretbe eae PC paR am S> ev ty eh
ee Pe ees ee CES ne oat

EXTENDED STUDIES Se eee
ALLOWS STUDENTS TO e

TAILOR AN ACADEMIC, (3c
UNDERTAKING TO Vigs
THEIR OWN NEEDS
AND INTERESTS

== LOOKS LIKE A  ————<—
ai «| BREEAR OME.

Incompetence riddles
Davidson campus

A Riddle: What was designed to be useful to students but
turned out to be a major grievance? Why, it’s the Academic
Calendar... and the Student Statement of Rights and
Responsibilities... and the Woodrow Wilson Fellow fellow.

The Academic Calendar dictates that students will have no
study day or exam break in the fall term. Students will have ta
return to the college on the second of January to resume
winter term and there is no study day for exams before the
exam period starts in the spring. Students should have a
chance to have some input into the Academic Calendar but the
document that gives them this input does not go into effect
until July and by that time it will be too late to do anything.
The only way to vent one’s spleen will be to grab a gripe sheet.

The Student Statement of Rights and Responsibilities is a
document of'rights but no one really believes it has a chance to
pass the Trustees. After all, the other nine drafts are currently
pushing up daisies in some land fill.

D. H. Clewell was an all right fellow but he made the mistake
of trying to speak on freedom of speech here where we have
three annuals pending and questions about who publishes the
newspaper. Literally the man was blown off of the podium in
Perkins Auditorium and by the time he got back to extolling
the virtues of oil companies and multinationals, no one was
listening.

The problems with the Academic Calendar are purposely
designed to give the students a longer Thanksgiving holiday,
do away with a need for poorly attended Saturday classes the
week after winter term resumes, and to finish spring exams in
time for the seniors’ grades to be available at Commencement.

The Woodrow Wilson Fellowship people correctly identified
Clewell as an articulate, intelligent man of many talents.

The Statement of Rights will probably pass the Trustees in
May unless it is changed between now and then. But who
would have guessed that such a thing could happen and so
who has read it?

Well... give them an inch and they'll either ignore it or try to
take apart Chambers building brick by brick.

Students want the calendar changed. “Go ahead and shorten
Thanksgiving vacation, we’ll be glad to go to Saturday classes
that first week in January, at least then we’ll be able to skip the
class by choice and not because we couldn’t get back so soon
after New Year’s. And what’s the sin of having commencement
on Monday?”

Students don’t trust the drafters of the Statement of Rights.
“Students in power are trying to ram it through so they can be
trustees.” :

The Faculty Executive Committee meets soon to discuss the
Academic Calendar. Change it! Students have been very
specific about what they don't like. Remedies are simple.
Students should read their Statement of Rights because it is
going into effect and once it does... well you can always grab a

gripe sheet.

New araft surrenders
entire free press issue

By MARK WILENSKY
Staff Writer

The recent letter. sent to students
by former SGA President John
Munce is misleading age borders on
misinterpretation. A reading of Mun-
ce’s letter leads to the conclusion that
the current draft is a product of the
governance subcommittee. This is not
entirely true.

The subcommittee nominally dis-
solved itself in the fall. It seemingly
tired after Draft 9 and did little else.
The committee had a “‘liberal’’ major-
ity (three students and Hansford
Epes outvoted Will Terry, Sandy
McKelway and Frontis Johnston) and
pressed for unequivocable freedom of
the press among other things.

The subcommittee got over some
large problems, but could not bridge
the media issue. With the surprising
help of Sam Spencer, freedom of

assembly and speech (meaning any
speaker can come to Davidson), those
bastions of subversity, were pre-
served. A clause allowing for all
students regardless of race, color or
creed (the sticky one) to be eligible for
any and all campus organizations
survived.

These are no small victories. There
was ardent opposition among the
Trustees especially for these constitu-
tionally guaranteed rights to be
expressed for Davidson College stu-
dents.

Nonetheless, media remained. The
College was not about to give up its
opinion that they could censor a
publication. The students and Epes
gave in for the most part, but not
enough for the Trustees on the
governance committee. Mercifully,
the subcommittee gave up.

[see WILENSKY, page 7}

the davidsonian

Matthew Covington.........
GHUCKRENKNON . 052.655 ce ees
UG BICIN tis cece cers.
Leon Venaple ...:......<.55.
SUBEN GOIEGN ......000 ces
Richard BOyCe ........6..5
BienMOSi bio cia nas ss
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis ..
Mavic: WaGOl icici chia ie

an a, Editorial Page Editor
Crier cris ey ie News Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

28036. Address all corespondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Letters to the Editor

‘Chambermaids ’ reply

To the Editor:

The Chambermaids Board
Members met Monday morning at
10:00.

We felt that your recent article and
editorial concerning our handbook
was done in a distasteful and negative
manner. Although the handbook is
taking much longer than expected, it
is making progress. Mr. Stephenson

_ has always been willing to see us at

To the Editor:

This is ‘in response to the article and
your editorial regarding a handbook
for the hourly-paid staff.

I certainly enjoy working with Mr.
Stephenson in the office of Personnel
and Administrative Services. It never
occurred to me that the handbook
would reveal any information regard-
ing policy or procedure that is not
already available to anyone who cares
to come in and ask.

It is interesting to note the number
of employees we now have who have
been ‘‘re-hired’’. Does this not say
something of the benefits and work-
ing conditions?

Elizabeth Shinn
Staff Secretary-Personnel

any time to discuss and show us any
benefits to which we are entitled.
There has never been any question in
our minds that the handbook would
be forthcoming, or that the Personnel
Office was trying to withhold
information.

Mr. Stephenson and the admini-
stration has worked with us for over
the past year, sending members to
Secretarial Conferences, obtaining a
suitable luncheon area and helping us
in trying to set up a bond deduction
savings plan.

We organized the Chambermaids
for the purpose of ‘‘Support to
student, faculty, and administration
of Davidson College, to encourage in a
considerate and professional manner
the full potential development of its
members: to foster fellowship and to
establish understanding and
communication between its members
and the college.”’

We do not wish to abandon our
Purpose or to represent ourselves as a
unionized group. Your implication of
striking for a day, or having
organized to demand certain benefits
is not in our way of thinking.

The Chambermaid Board Members
