December 10, 1976

Editor’s difficulty swells

at election time when
endorsemnts are due

The difficulty of sitting in the desk of The Davidsonian editor —
is great at the time of campus elections. One feels a need,
perhaps rationalizing it as a responsibility, to endorse
candidates for office. An editor observes the school,
conceiving of changes that need to be made in all levels of
student, faculty and administrative life. It seems very natural
to endorse someone under this condition. As | look around
this election time, however, | realize that | must deny myself
the indulgence of recommending someone to fill any of the
positions being vacated.

Thom Young and Roger Brown are both running for the
office of SGA President. Both have a good chance to win, a
chance that might be altered by a Davidsonian endorsement.
Brown’s experience immediately makes him an appealing
candidate except when one considers the negative feeling that
surrounds what some faculty and administrators feel is an
unbroken line connecting Blain Butner with John Munce, John
Munce with Bo Baskin, and Bo Baskin with Roger Brown. To
interfere with this succession of SGA Presidents, that is to
vote for outsider Thom Young might be considered by some as
a step toward strengthening faculty-administration relations
with the SGA. Before one goes too far with this idea, though, it
must be recognized that Thom Young has no plans for the
office except to send out a newsletter to the Trustees. His
attractiveness is his curse, he is an unknown quantity.

David Keller and Catherine Landis are both running to
succeed me as editor of The Davidsonian. Throughout the
week people have come to me asking if | had a favorite. | do
not. Both have performed well in whatever capacity | have
asked them to and in the process have learned a great deal
about running The Davidsonian. | will be proud of the winner
on Tuesday, and sorry for the loser.

Bob Hill and Billy Hutchings are running for the extremely
important position of Union Board President. The Union Board
budget of nearly $40,000 is the largest of any organization on
campus. Neither Hill or Hutchings, however, has extended
himself in any way to describe any particular changes that
might be made in the programming of the Union. Both seem
satisfied with the way things are.

The point is that the elections mean change in that new
officers will be filling the same offices. With these new people
come new possibilities. Hill and Hutchings, Landis and Keller,
Young and Brown be warned.

OL OT OE

tne dawidsonan

MimMIMN OVITOION 4:55.) «ros. 000ies's 6 050.06 Oak ee al EN Editor
SUGINMMMEERIS oy 88 50a 5-0 4.5/6 ei gre eo 6 0 0: 059 Davie oth Business Manager
WIVIMMIOIN css sa vy eds oe yi peuie owe &...Photography Editor
SUB AIANY: olsen ieee ce er var Production Manager
PVE 0 SESS re Editorial Page Editor
Cathy Landis & Dave Keller................ Executive Editors
Bruce Holladay & Amanda Hall............... Sports Editors
Lyman Collins & Philip Duncan .......... Asst. News Editors
fe) era ea Advertising Manager
PON cpl iss bert ee ce Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly:subscription rate: $6.00.

WANT BES
For

CHIEF COOK tf |
BOTTLE “WHER |

Letter to the Editor

Freshmen deprived

To the Editor:

~Somehow tonight I started think-
ing about the notion of kids not living
on a freshman hall in a dorm on
campus. Being a long way from home
here in Montpellier it isn’t rare that
we recall the old days in Wildcat
Heaven. Though I wasn’t really a big
rah-rah freshman-hall type, in retro-
spect the whole thing seems to be a
real decent set-up. Not only was the
hall situation great for plopping a

‘bunch of tin horns all in there

together where all they had was each
other, but it was real often, too, that I
would take a study break and go
upstairs to visit my buddies up there.

Those idle times and late-night
discussions turned out to be meaning-
ful relationships for me and many

other people, whether or not we
realized it at the time. If I was a
freshman living in a house off-cam-
pus, I would feel removed from the.
common flow of activity and fun that
goes on in those dorms. There is
plenty for that later on.

It occurs to me now that a few of
those guys won’t be there next year
when I return, and I will miss them
even more then than now. There is
something mysterious about the fel-
lowship of a freshman hall and in
freshman dorms that is hard to
describe, especially in a foreign
language. Hello, Boys! Davidson
shouldn’t let such a good aspect fade.

Steve Johnson '78
Davidson in Montpellier, France

Elections require thought

One of Davidson students’ chief
complaints—that they have no power
to change anything on campus—will
be partially alleviated next week. On
Tuesday, December 14, elections will
be held to determine many offices in
student government as well as editor-
ships of the various student publica-
tions.

Student elections are the one way in
which the student body can exert
some influence on the campus power
structure. These elections can do
more positive good than an indeter-
minable amount of griping and say-
ing, ‘‘Aw, the administration doesn’t
give the students a chance to do
anything.”

There are good people running for
every available position. Campaign-
ing has only just begun, yet every day
there are more and more posters being
put up. These candidates have taken
an interest in their school and in the
student body. Now, it is the respon-
sibility of the students to take an
interest in the candidates.

It is not enough merely to vote for
one candidate or the other next

Tuesday. In fact, voting without
some knowledge of what the candi-
dates stand for is, in one sense, worse
than not voting at all. Voting for a
candidate at random is like leaving
the election to the toss of a coin. No
student who cares about Davidson
and the quality of life here could do
that in good conscience.

Instead, students need to take an
interest in the-elections. Find-out
whether Thom Young or Roger Brown
really care about the job of president,
or if one of them merely wants the
title to put down on his graduate
school application. Be an active part
of the election and not just a passive
bug who will vote at the Post Office
when he checks to see if his box is
empty, as usual.

The elections do matter. They are
not merely a plot by the paper
companies to make more money. The
winners of these elections will be the
leaders of the campus, for better or for
worse. If the students do not itake an
active part in the elections, then they
have only themselves to blame if a
poor candidate is selected.
