February 13, 1976

the davidsonian

in

ed ;

Goudy views tenure as protective

To the Editor:
No one has: greater respect. or
admiration for Doctor Earl MacCor-

mac than the undersigned, and no one

has less desire to cross verbal swords
with him. However, his latest article

on Tenure (Davidsonian, Feb. 6) has’:

elicited certain responses from. that
random collection of molecules pur-
portedly circling between my ears,—
not in challenge so much as simply in
observation. a
Doctor MacCormac mentioned that
religious views had. better be discus-
sed.in open meeting in a pro-and-
. Con manner, so that the several views
on a question are clearly placed in

juxtaposition! How very much I)
-agree!’And how very much I have

wished for that sort of give and take!.

‘A great Oxford don,—an iritellectual

atheist -turned-Christian-apologist —

did exactly that in his Socratic Club -
for the very purpose of creating an |

‘arena where poirit by point, Christ -
ian and non-Christian views could be
presented i in the same meeting. His
name:.C, S. Lewis. es
. In almost any liberal arts course,
either formal or personally pursued, it
is very easy to let Christian writing
and Christian thought get ‘‘buried’’
by a great variety of non-Christian
thought and writing. Then, too,
visiting lecturers tend to come steep-
ed in the academic worldviews, and
tend to present a humanistic, mater-
ialistic point of view. And there is no
one on the podium with anything like
equal status to say, ‘‘That is one
point of view, but there is another
equally valid or defensible.’’ Only last

week we were charmed. by. the exciting

_and very. logical presentation of one
view of the origin and meaning of life.

But there was no one there. to’ point
out things that were not explained, .
nor to say,.as Doctor Olin Puckett
would have said, ‘‘Anyone who has
seen what I have seen thru a micro-
scope knows there is a God,’’ or.to say
‘as Doctor Brooks of Chapel Hill said,
‘‘T have designed computers and I can

- really appreciate the One who de-
. signed the greatest computer of them

all, the human brain.”

. There are many: Ph.D.’s today who
with their learning ‘‘have gotten
wisdom’’, who see life thru all of

_. science from .@ perspective. which
’ admits ‘a designer with a Capital D.”’
Many. -are teaching; .
writing: from ‘Christian | pre-supposi- i
“tions rather than ‘mechanistic.ones. q

many ° are

‘recall one very highly respected pro-

fessor in: an institution which ranks —
- with Davidson academically, who

‘shocked: her physics class with the
statement, ‘‘No, these are not New-
‘ton’s: laws, He just discovered them.
They are God’s laws.”’ And from the
standpoint of real truth that seems
rather close.to the point.

Perhaps I should stop here, and I

Intellectual impact met

To the Editor:

I was glad to see at least two people
last issue got the full intellectual
impact of the front-page farce about

Williams College and the hall coun- ©

selors. That statement, you may
remember, beautifully complemented
the piece about the art program to
show atypical week’s work for the
Davidson administration.

You could take the first part of that
“sentence about the president’s being
‘‘not willing to involve the college in a
long term commitment to support the
National’’ and fill.it in with any
constructive program proposed here
in eight years.

I have always heard that when
someone proves himself incapable of
doing a job right he should be
removed. It is a complete mystery
to me that a college with so many
outstanding faculty members cannot
find two sincere, competent men to be
President and Dean of Students--and
I really wonder how those people got
there in the first place.

I am constantly amazéd how many
of the complaints heard in The
Davidsonian and about the campus in
general are directly traceable to their
ineptitude. I hope, for instance, that
the fellow who criticized Bo Brickles
last issue realizes that Terry Holland
was so harrassed by the administra-
tion’s meddling that.a good coaching
offer found him quite eager to leave.

That's certainly no surprise. Dav:
idson once was fortunate enough to

have Larry Brown working here, who _

was intelligent enough to become
ABA Coach of the Year--but natur-
‘ally could not even earpet his. office

without clearing the color with His

‘sincere administrators who. will

Majesty. Homer Smith (whom Tom
Harmon called the best offensive
football coach in America) similarly
departed expressing pure disgust
with the administrative meddling.

The football team brought a parti-
cularly formidable challenge for the
new administration a few years back,
since Davidson had a Southern Con-
ference championship team.

The program could not have been
demolished with more amazing effi-
ciency--which of course was the plan
all along. This is admittedly getting
away from recent events, but I don’t

think everybody realizes just how

these people have worked to tear
down anything the Davidson stu-
dents could possibly become involved
with or take any pride in.
_ Few things would be more benefi-
cial to the campus than some good
art, but the administration just took
us another step backwards. Anybody
willing to hide the stories about the
college’s substandard housing and
poverty wages for employees, further-
more, would certainly think nothing
of denying money to hall counselors
which had been promised to them.
We naturally get all the official
doubletalk--like ‘‘I’m open to any
suggestions’’ with the art situation,

but if anybody here believes that I’d

like to know about it. We've heard a -
lot about the apathy at Davidson for
several years.
I have to think things will inpecre
considerably when we can get.
a4
for the school and whom the students
can trust. ~
Hilton Otiver.
Davidson College 77

wouldn’t blame you, Mr. Editor, if
you cut me off, but-if I may I should
like to say one word about Tenure—
which of course is none of my busi-

ness, except that I have come to love .

Davidson College very much. Aca-
demic freedom is to be protected

certainly, but after ‘‘x’’ years of.

_ pre-tenure service cannot a man’s

Christianity be judged adequately. by

' his peers without regard to creed or

doctrinal statement. It would seem
that at least as much care should be
given to protecting Christianity as to.
protecting academic freedom in an

- institution’ which: “‘guarantees that

the Christian faith will be given a
forthright hearing’’ as becomés a

college which “‘retains strong'ties |
ce with the Ag babi Church.’ es

Of course Christianity does not
need to be “‘protected”—only to: be
given a reasonably equal opportunity
and a sound presentation. Incident-
ally, what other organization in’ all
history, has consciously admitted. to
its representation and its councils
those people who do not show some
evidence of accepting the’ basic pre-
suppositions and objectives of that
organization .

People may cry “intolerance” ‘on

. the one hand and “‘necessity to obtain

qualified personnel”’ on the other; but

on examination don’t both “Sept

rather specious. —
My apologies for “sounding off” in in

" George Goudy ‘2 |
University of Virginia

this fashion.

ie uture. follows present -

To the Editor:
Must one presume that Davidson i is

. unique—her students are not parti-
cularly different from that of other ©

colleges. Granted that they are a cut |
above most — this is a fine institution.
But certainly Davidson students: are
as prone to worry —to the pressures of
the world in general.

We all live in the same world. and
for all our isolation we are affected by
the turbulence, the change, the
insecurity of our world. Unfortun-
ately many students act as if grades
were indeed vital— because they are.

It is difficult to separate a noble
pursuit of education from grade
grubbing. Indeed many here have.
outlined an area of study and feel that

they must indeed work hard and a »

grade becomes a written record of
what they can do. Life is not carefree
and often enough the student at
Davidson feels that he or she must
work hard or someone else will be,
doing better. |

Most Davidson students come from
schools were they were involved both
in academics and in extracurficular

activities. and they did well. They
come to Davidson to “compete” with
students here. The students at the top
are admired and it is natural for the

.others to assert themselves*as well.

The biggest scramble is seen in the
pre-med program. What can a
student: do but succumb to the
pressure, retreat to the library. .
Hopefully some student will do
more than this—rise above worship of
the almighty grade because the grade
does live and will continue to live: The
best will learn that there is more and
indeed most students know that there
is more—we are young but we are
more aware of otherethings than we
are often given credit for--the things
that couné in the end. The search. of:
knowledge through thinking—that is
genuine but in between we are coming
to know. Perhaps all we can hope for
is that college will teach us this

~ because it’s. best to make mistakes

early in life rather than later —be-

cause a hope, a promise for the future
is truly what we are.

Patricia Soriano ’79

Davidson College

Davis wins praise

To the Editor:

Realizing that the popular trend
these days’ is harshly criticizing the
Athletic Department or members
therein, I nevertheless would like to
assume for a moment the role of the

radical, and direct a few words of..

praise toward a member of our
Wildcat staff.

Bill Davis, the senior member of

the student trainer squad, has for four
years practically given his entire
existence to Davidson athletics. In so
doing he has sacrificed social life,
academics, and participation in cer-
tain other areas of college life.

Though somewhat small in stature,
Bill is a tough character, and well
qualified to handle the duties and
responsibilitiés he has chosen to take
on. Because of his dedication to
Wildcat athletics, and his tremendous
knowledge of athletic training, (much
of. it self-taught), sports. event here

and on the road have gone smoothly
a and competently during his four year

stint. as a trainer.
Besides taping ankles, and other

~. parts of the athlete’s anatomy, better
than anyone else in the department, -
. Bill has accepted other positions’ of —

equal, if not more importance. These
positions include team physician,
administrator, treasurer, coach, mini-
ster, manager, morale ‘booster...the
list goes on and on. He is also one of
the Wildcat’s staunchest fans.

Though Bill Davis is his real name,
he has seldom heard it as a student
trainer. In his younger days as a
Wildcat trainer, the team members
referred to him as ‘‘Wild Bill.’’ But as
he earned their respect, admiration,
and complete trust, his title has
appropriately been changed to-“Dr.
B. ”

Dr. B. graduates this spring and
his absence will create a considerable
void in the college’s athletic program.

‘For four years he has done it all. He

has set a standard of excellence which
we who follow. must try to- maintain.

For the privilege of being associated

with Bill roidaas on and off the job, I

am.

My: hope t now is that: the Soaahel:
players, and other members of the |
next few athletic: contingent. will, in

the next few months, likewise express.

to Dr. B. the: gratitude | be 80
en deserves. ;
Wayne M. Cross '77
