2

November 4, 1977

.. . faculty morale sinks

[Continued from page 1]
demanding in the application of our
standards.”

Zimmermann outlined these stan-
dards in three basic areas.

The first area deals with profes-
sional competence. This area includes
the professor’s knowledge of the
discipline he teaches. It deals with
academic competence and such out-
ward signs as attending professional
meetings and publishing, although
Zimmermann added that ‘“‘we don’t
expect, with the emphasis we place on
teaching, our faculty members to
publish as much.”’

The second area concerns teaching

effectiveness. This can be determined .

by faculty evaluation with input from
both faculty and students.

Zimmermann

The third area is community ser-
vice. Zimmermann defined communi-
ty service in its broadest sense:
“Service to the College Comminity as
well as the broad impact on the moral
and intellectual life at the institu-
tion,”

He indicated that these standards
will be weighted equally.

“We're going to be very demand-
ing,’’ he explained. ‘“‘We’re going to
ask, ‘Does this person have the
promise of making an outstanding
contribution to the College and it
life?’

“T daresay that mistakes have been
made in the past, but-that is no
reason to relax standards in the
future. We can not afford to have just
a good faculty, but an excellent one.”

These faculty members are also
dissatisfied with the Trustees’ deci-
sion on Christian Tenure.

As one professor said, ‘‘I have been
surprised and dismayed by the social
and religious parochialism I have
found here and I resent the invasion
of personal privacy implied by the

Trustee Enacting Statement.”’

There seems to be a general feeling
among this segment of the faculty
that nothing really has changed
concerning Christian Tenure due to
the Enacting Statement.

“The new By-Law insures that
although a few faculty members may
be selected for tenure without discri-
mination on religious grounds (and
even this is not clear in the case of
atheists) at a future date the situation
of Spring 1977 will be repeated.

“We are very dissatisfied with the
way it was resolved.”

Another professor explained it this

way,‘The greatest lossinthe Trustee
action of October is to deny students
and faculty the kind of open commu-
nity that would facilitate the real
enterprise that they seem to intend to
carry out: Christian dialogue.

“Tt’s hard to carry on a dialogue in
a padded cell.”

Some faculty members view the
Trustee action at least a step in the
right direction and want to retain the
College’s Christian Committment.

“T innocently believe in Davidson’s
uniqueness and part of what is unique
about it is its Christian Committ-
ment. It helps to create an image, and
it is a good selling point. I can respect
the College’s Committment.

“But I can also respect the critical
view of Christian Tenure. We need to
open the College up more; it’s
healthy.”

But still there is that persitant
uneasiness over the policy.

“T don’t think the Christian Tenure
policy changed much. It looks differ-
ent on paper; they’ve covered on
paper so they can’t get a dirty face.”

Spencer addressed these com-
plaints, ‘I’m aware of the comments.
Future appointments will be more
impressive than any more words
on the subject.”

Interfaculty communication is a

third area of concern for these faculty
members. While they. emphasize that
these trends do not necessarily apply
to all departments, all faculty mem-
bers are aware of problems in certain
areas.
One professor posed the question,
‘‘How open are the senior faculty
members to new ideas and points of
view?

“The structure of this place is so
hierachical. The impression given to
young people is, ‘wait, you'll get your
chance, but wait.’

‘There is, of course, a tension
between new insights and insights
based on long experience, but the
tendency around here is to stiffle new
insights rather than encouraging and
channeling them in the right direc-
tion.”

Another professor said, “‘Although
the senior faculty don’t like to admit
it there is a problem. We cannot feel
safe. We must tread lightly, one may
be cutting one’s own throat.”

This problem of inter-faculty rela-
tionships broadens to affect the entire
mood of the faculty.

At least one professor has received
‘hate mail’’ from collegues because of
unpopular or controversial stands.

“There’s a low tolerance for diver-
sity here.”

One of the newer faculty members
summed things up this way, ‘“‘Some of
the rosy glow has worn off. I’m seeing
that everyone here is human. It’s a
human institution that doesn’t al-
ways live up to its ideals, but the
ideals are there.’’

PEREGRINE HOUSE

Happy Hours: Thursday & Friday
8:30 - 1uU PM

Fg 00.00.06. 0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0. 0.0 0,0, 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,9,0,0,0,0 5090 9rg0gror10000 8.000, 0,0,05 050505050, 0 0s ea ea tee,
oetetetetetetetetetetetatatatetetetetetetetatetererenererererestetesess#10,0,0000019,9,0,0,0,0 0 tte tetetereraree.e.8.0.0.0.0.0.9.8,

oreteterenecerelererele.e.e.0.0.0.8.8.8
weteteteetosesecenesesesests ta tetetetoteteteteteteses wren 0a 0.0. 0.0.0.0.020.0,0.0.050n hanna taearararararnrnrnrararnrararmararanrnrarararatatatataln®,
I I a aaa aad

DCF plans conference

Davidson Christian Fellowship is sponsoring @ conference
sie Leder a5ee college and seminary students prs cape .
at Davidson. The conference’s theme is The Lord’s Church:
Our Part in Her Renewal.” Rev. Bob Henderson of the General
Assembly Mission Board Staff, a graduate of Davidson, will be
the main speaker and will address the foundation, nature and
urch.
Te ae Hunneycutt, a former missionary to Korea and
now English professior at Pfeiffer College will lead Bible study
on God’s instruments of reform in ancient Israel.
Ministers and teachers from across the South will lead a
variety of workshops concerning serving the church and world.
Many seminaries including Union, Columbia, and Gordon-
Conwell are sending representatives to the conference. For more
information, contact Bob Cathey B201 (892-5314) or Sylvia

Gordon B302 (892-5136).

Phone system settled

Efforts by the Campus Security Committee have brought
improvement to the College’s security phone system.

The phones, which are located in the dormitories and at other
locations on campus, connect directly to the police station in
downtown Davidson.

Until recently the police had no way to trace from which
phone an emergency call was made. Now, however, the location
of each phone is specified on the dispatcher’s board at the police
station. The change enables the police to quickly pinpoint the
origin of an emergency call.

Junior Hans Watford, member of the Security Committee,
emphasizes that the security phones are not only for use in
emergencies. He encourages students to use the phones to
report anything or anyone unusual.

Committee member Bruce Brown says that one of the group’s
aims is to make people aware of the problem of outsiders on
campus.

Organized gangs have been known to steal a truck load of
bicycles at a time, and juveniles sometimes gain entrance to
dorm rooms, without attracting notice.

Watford hopes that students will report suspicious outsiders
so the police can detain and question them.

Co-op opens soon

On December 1 a number of students, faculty, and
community members will open the Davidson Bicycle Co-Op, a
venture providing low-cost bicycle repairs and promoting
cycling in this area.

Memberships to the Co-Op will be $2 for one year, $6 for four
years, or $15 for life. Members are entitled to buy bicycle parts
and have repairs made at costs lower than those charged by
Charlotte bicycle shops. Three student mechanics will work in
the Co-Op. :

Initially the Co-Op will be operating out of the College Union;
its founders hope that a Main Street storefront will soon become
available. Tentative hours for the Co-op are all day Saturday
and from 2-5 pm weekdays.

All profits will be channeled into buying and replacing tools,
paying rent, supplementing bicycle projects in and around
Davidson and covering other miscellaneous expenses. The
Co-Op hopes to establish for members a lending library of
cycling books and magazines.

For more information see Brian Jacobs (Duke 11) or Jeff

Morrow (Little 209) or come to the Bike Fair on Saturday,
November 12.

GENERAL INSURANCE

OF irst

cz
IQ PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC:

DAVIDSON’ “

Union National.

TR renee me 6 mee

|

rs
