The Davidsonian

December 16, 1977

Thechanging | 3 ~—
student body

Opinion

Students exhibit
complacency, lack oy

Tt. By ANTHONY S: ABBOTT
Faculty Guest Columnist

Everything changes, the problem is how to interpret it. I’ve
spent many hours this fall talking to my friends in the class of
1977 about the current student body at Davidson. They all ask,
“‘What’s it like now? is it different?’’ The answer is clearly,
‘‘Yes’’. But who’s different? What’s different? Is it the
students? Is it me? Is it the times?

The seniors who graduated last My seemed to represent the
end of an era, the last of a group that had personal ties to the
‘60's. May of them had that crazy combination of idealism,
. creativity, and energy which characterized the student radicals
_ of the late 60’s, and though most of the members of the Class of
1977 did not participate themselves in the protests and marches,
they seemed to imbibe from teachers and older brothers and
_ sisters something of the spirit of that period.

Something of their spirit rubbed off on the current senior and
junior classes; but that is where the tradition ends. The classes
of 1980 and 1981 seem of a different personality altogether: they |
are quieter, more polite, better groomed, better disciplined in
many respects, conscientious--- but in some vital respects less
exciting students. Why?

‘Impressions, of course, are subjective, and my own
impressions are based on my being a teacher of Humanities and
English; the current freshmen and sophomore classes may be
excellent students in mathematics, the sciences and social

sciences; but in the areas with which I am concerned there is a

noticeable change. I: would spell this change out as follows:

1. Students are less willing to risk the expression of personal
opinion in class. When asked what they think about a particular
philosopher, theologian, or literary figure they tend to wait. and
try to find out what the party line is. They are afraid of being ~
wrong, afraid that they will be penalized for expressing a point
of view different from that of the professor or the official critical
view of the author in question.

2./Students are writing less exciting papers. While ‘most
papers continue to be competent, the paper which tackels an
idea in an interesting, creative, or original fashion tends to be
rarer and rarer. Thg kind of language used in most writing tends

-* Wavid Litaker]

Wavid Litaker]

to be safe and pedestrian.

3. Students are less literate. Mét of them seem to have read
less and have encountered fewer ideas in high school. There are
more basic errors in spelling, syntax, and usage. There is a
definite rise in the use of sentence fragments and run-on
sentences. Commas and semi-colons-are used almost inter-
changeably-- an indication that the student has learned
punctuation by rote rather than internalizing the logic behind it.

4, Students are more concerned with grades and less with
education. The see their college career primarily as, a ticket to a
future job, not as an experience to be undertaken for. its own
sake.

5. Students tend to equate learning with the accumulation of
data. Some tend to equate the analysis of a text with plot
summary or biography.

The fault is not really theirs. They are-the victims ‘ot: years: of
television watching, incompetent high school teaching, and a
change in the social and economic climate in America which has
made- job security and conventional social behavior tantamount
concerns. Unfortunately the atmosphere . at Davidson often
reinforces this behavior, and the student who acts’ ‘differently i is
branded as an eccentric or a brown- -noser.

And so we are being forced more and: ‘more to do the jobs
which should have been done in high school and students are
failing both from lack of courage and lack of preparation, They
ere afraid to think, and when they do think they often do not
have the competence to express their thoughts, tlenrly.

aking them work harder is not the solution. dry students do
poorly because they have no internal image of sucéess-- they hev.
never written a really good paper or examination that they can
use asa model for future efforts; they associate college with a
grinding effort that results only in humiliation or mediocrity ..

‘ Our students must be shaken out of their complacency, . and
they must master the basic tools of thinking on paper. To
achieve these ends we, as teachers, -may have to be more
concerned with quality and less quantity. It may be more
instructive for a student to write one good paper than to write
three or four poor ones. It may be more educational for a student
to read one book thoughtfully and intelligently than to read
three books sketchily. Mit of my advisees talk about how much
work they have to do; I seldom hear one mention something he’s
read recently that has excited him.

If-we have a different student body, perhaps we need to adjust
both our demands and the way in which we use class time to help
these students grow. to help them think of education as an
adventure instead of a grind, as a process of exploration rather
than a tired march over monotonous territory. We owe it to

_ them and to ourselves.

But, most important, both in our admissions policy and in our
personal attitudes as teachers, we need to encourage the
development of excellence in a greater variety of shapes. As an
institution we have frequently discouraged those whose mode of
expression is different from the norm; perhaps we are now
getting the sort of students we eally want. That would be the
worst-thing of all. es

White comments on
_ Davidson’ s character

By JEFF METZEL
Staff Writer

The observation that stu-
dents of the '70’s can be
characterized as diploma or-
iented, grade grubbing apple
polishers is not supported by
Director of Admissions. H
Edmunds White.

White states, ‘‘It’s amazing
how many different things
Davidson students are in-
volved in, incontrast to the
mid-60’s.

As examples, he cites the
weekly meal for CROP, the

STEP program, Davidson Tu
tors in area schools, student
visitors to Huntersville pri

son, the increasing variety of
Union activities, and finally,
student experiences through
the Office for Experiential
Programs.

In light of these and other
activities, accusations con-
demning student obsession
with grades seem unrealistic
and ill informed.

Meover, though over 70 per
cent of graduating Davidson
students continue on to grad-
uate or professional school,
White asserts that this does
not indicate a lack of broader
interests among Davidson
students. Rather, White be-
lieves that Davidson continues
their education after gradua-
tion because they are generally
highly motivated and highly
intelligent and hence have
high aspirations.

In this regard Davidson
might be labled a “‘pre-profes-
sional’’ schools. Yet White
notes that this is no recent
trend of the 70’s but has been
a common characterization of
Davidson at least as long as he
has been here. In his opinion,

. “pre-professional” need not

nave negative connotation as
long as it is not the only

. characteristic of the school.

White suggests that more
distinctive characteristics of
Davidson are its church orien-
tation, its small size, its
country location, and its chal-
lenging ‘ecademiic program.

Furthermore, from his ex-
perience in admissions, White
observes that over the past 20
years students whom David-
son attracts have seemed ra-
ther homogeneous in their in-
terests, background, intellect
and motivations.

According to White, ‘“‘The
quality of Davidson students
is not declining as some ru-
mors may suggest. True, SAT
scores have dropped a little,
but this has been a nationwide
phenomenon, and compara-
tively, Davidson’s decline has
been slight.”

A final note--White is
pleased that this years appli-
cation rate is substantially
ahead of last year’s, which
turned out to be the largest in
Davidson history. Hence,
White expresses optimism a-
bout the present quality and
future _praspe.-. .° Davidson.
