September 10, 1977

The Davidsonian

Think Freshmen stand out now?

By WARREN SOULE ©

[This is the first in a series of articles
about Davidson history, traditions,
and trivia which will appear in this
issue and in coming weeks. }

A Davidson tradition came to an
end when the Class of 1972 gradua-
ted. Yes, coeducatiogjwas but months
away, but it marked the end of a
different story: this was the last class
which passed their first year at
Davidson under the old and venerable
Freshman regulations.

The most noticeable manifestation
of these Regulations was the beanie,

r ‘‘Fresh cap’’. Freshmen had to
wear (originally at all times, but later
only when on campus) the, caps
prescribed for them by the Court of
Control. An unmistakable sign of
being a Freshman, the beanies were
red (inscribed when the class number
in black) with a black visor (an
example is on display from the Class
of.1960 in the Library foyer). Al-
though a sign of class rank and a
notice of that low station of life

Let’s move to semesters

It's the thd day of c asses, and the pressure is on. That’s

aon. Mest

&tydents: work better when challenged.

-*.Buf the pfessure.at Davidson is too great, because we
berate Linterthe auarter system rather than the semester:

system.

Every day 5rings new material students must absorb before
the next day when .they receive new material. Then there’s the.

next day and the-next.

Students often. ‘Tose perspective in the daily fight to keep up
THey havé little timé for reflection, assimilation of ideas,
‘coordination of knowledae., There’s only time for the grade

vigil.

Somé can handle the daily onslaught with little trouble.
‘Others choke 2 spendingdess and less time with friends, getting
léss and less involved ‘with extracurricular activities. Still
others become so frustrated:they punch out windows,

bathroorn doors, etc....

Nancv MeNair

Under‘a seméter systen, students would have two days to
absorb the material, maybe even synthesize it with what they

have learned previously.

Ten weeks is not long engugn.for a novel course, a survey
Course, a sciénce course; for. any course. Ten weeks is not
‘tong enough*to establish: the proner rapport between professor

‘and student.

Courses, teachers, and students deserve more than'ten
weeks to cover a subject even adequately. A semester system

‘would offer that time.

There are drawbacks. With the quarter system students can
take nine courses. Under the semester system they would
probably only take eight. But is the ninth’Gourse worth the
quality we.could get out of eight tonger'ones? That we need to

determine.

The Davidsonian

GatherineizandiS =..2...5...-..

Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins

Charles Erwin
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett .....
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell

Amanda Hall
Susan Colan

Hunter Jennings........ re
Ware SOUIE— ice re eee
BrlanmeninonOt. 5...
PatSY DANIGIS ..-. cesses bers e ees

te oe Editorial Page Editors

pees Gain Sports Editors

Se eA Managing Editor
seer Production Manager
Sinaia Photography Editor
ae Business Manager
Soe Grae Advertising Manager
RO er eet) Cartoonist

occupied by the Davidson Freshmen
in the celestial hierarchy, the beanies
did have their advantages. In the
days when the college forbade stu-
dents to own cars, Davidson students
travelled to Charlotte chiefly, by
‘‘bumming’’. There were regular
’’bumming corners’, pretty well
known to commuters—one was in
front of Grey House, ona corner of
Route 115, and there were a few
others in Davidson and in downtown
Charlotte.

Freshmen wore their ‘‘Fresh caps’’
which most people in the piedmont of
North Carolina recognized (upper-
classmen borrowed them on occasion

‘for bumming), and often travelers

would detour past the college in order
to give students rides into Charlotte.
Out-of-town travellers wrote back to
college officials of the good impres-
sion their ‘‘guest riders’’ made on
them.

In the fall of 1968, in what was the
first wave of the habit (which is still
all too much with us at Davidson) of
college students and faculty taking
themselves much too seriously, the
rule requiring freshmen to wear the

traditional red cap during the opening -

weeks of school was repealed.

Other regulations prohibited walk-
ing on the grass of the Davidson
‘campus, required freshmen to wear
their nametags until the middle of
October and memorize the college
yells and songs (how many students
of any class know the ‘Alma Mater”’
today?) by the second week of classes,
and required the freshmen to speak to
all men they met on campus and tip
their hats to the members of the
faculty,

To enforce these regulations was
the job of the Court of Control. The
Court was established by an amend-
ment to the Student Body Constitu-
tion in the spring of 1923 for the
purpose of investigating and dealing
with charges made by upperclassmen
against freshmen who had exhibited
improper conduct, violated the Fresh-
man Regulations, or broken any of
the hallowed traditions of the school.

Hazing of freshmen by upperclass-

men ended rather abruptly in the
early 1920’s, when 27 Davidson
sophomores were suspended: for haz-
ing freshmen by President Martin.
(In days antebellum, the principal
means of hazing freshmen recorded
was that of hanging out of a window
and yelling ‘‘Fresh’’ at a passing
unfortunate.) The Court enforced the
regulations and established the tradi-
tion and ideal that the status of
upperclassman is an honor earned and
not conferred.

Non-written tradition assigned to
freshmen the job of carrying the
laundry. A familiar scene was a
ibeanied freshman, already laden with

two or three bundles, walking along

the path to the laundry when the cry
‘‘Hey, Freshman’’ came from an
upper floor as a bag of soiled clothing
tumbled from the window above the
walk.

Among other traditions was that
which prohibited freshmen from going
to the Post Office before noon, or at
least until after all upperclassmen had
visited their boxes. Freshmen were
also required to attend all major
athletic events at least fifteen minutes
early, sit together, use the mega-
phones prescribed for them by the
Court of Control,.and remain through
the entire contest.

When the freshmen were deemed
worthy by the upperclassmen of
entering the college as real students
(usually at the time of the Freshman-
Sophomore Day contest, pitting the
two classes in a life and death
struggle over whether the regulations
were to end), the joyous students,
exulting in their new found status at
Davidson Gentlemen, held a beanie
bonfire, burning the hated symbols of
oppression, to celebrate the event.
(Some, however, kept their beanies as
momentoes.)

These activities of the first year at
Davidson moulded classes, and, by
the honor of upholding the ‘‘Davidson
spirit’’, led the class capped by those
beanies in the years to come into new
experiences and new friendships; for
the first requirement for the Davidson
Gentleman was always the Davidson
Spirit.

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

LOVE

6

Peregrine House

BEST FOOD

EAST OF TULSA

HAPPY HOURS

THURSDAY

8:30-10.00 PM

FRIDAY

D.C.POP FILMS PRESENTS:
ALL THE PRESIDENT’S MEN

ROBERT REDFORD AND DUSTIN HOFFMAN
$1.00

-8&10:30°
