-_ May.§..4977
Well, this is the last : issue of the year.
it Sure has been.....:... ,

' hast AR NE ONG 4) =
, ER ih ts , oOo

oar
a
awd Ne

Unless the SGA can clearly define
its course evaluation goals within the
next few weeks, the single best
opportunity for achieving a student-
approved evaluation system in this
decade will have been allowed to slip
through their fingers.

When new Academic Vice-Presi-
dent Price Zimmermann arrives on
campus this summer, he has already
been directed by President Spencer to
begin work on a ‘‘Code of Faculty
Evaluation Procedures” in conjunc-
tion with the faculty’s Professional
Affairs Committee.

The administration must draft such
a document soon to comply with the
explicit directives of the 1976 College
Constition. PAC is also anxious to
have such a document because at
present professors really don’t know
just how they’re being evaluated for
tenure, promotions, and wages.

SGA President Thom Young has
said, and with good reason, that
student representatives should play a

part in the evaluation negotiations. .

But even if they gain seating, such
students would have no political
leverage to affect significant changes
in the document so long as there is an
internal SGA dispute on exactly what
evaluation should be about.

Young has the common sense to see
that the real issue here is whether or
not.students will be allowed meaning-
ful input into faculty evaluation for

tenure; .»..c. othPee is the students ~

- seasq@ninform tampered.with ..

who must suffer from incompetent
professors, not faculty colleagues or
administration figures. He sees the
perpetuation of SGA course statistics
as a side issue.

The SGA Course Evaluation Com-
mittee, on the other hand, is interes-
ted mainly in evaluating courses for
student use and sees faculty evalua-
tion as a long-range goal. Unfortun-
ately, the time for paring now and a
long- is no ;

‘The dos san for viable student

‘influence on the Zimmermann docu-

ment derives from the course statis-
tics controversy. As PAC chairman,
Dr. David Kaylor, has said, being
graded in public is frankly an embar-
rassment to professors. PAC doesn’t
want any official statistical results
made public.

Young, however, has been working
to have the SGA course statistics
‘“‘institutionalized’’ so that a valid

response may be obtained and pub-

lished. Both the fall and winter term
results have been statistical failures
and if continued in their present
condition will go far to undermine
SGA credibility.
A_big opportunity for compromise:

exists. The SGA‘ could meet with

PAC to decided on a two-part form
which would require student. comple-
tion. The first part of the form could
contain questions potentially embar-
rassing to faculty and the second part
could contain more objective ques-
tions helpful to students in| selecting
courses.

The first part would remain confi-
dential and the second would be
published.

Young has stated that he would
‘‘love’’ such a plan and President
Spencer has termed it ‘‘possible’’, But
getting such a form put into effect
would require the cooperation of the
SGA Course Evaluation Committee—
a task that may prove quite impos-
sible. For the CEC doesn’t .want its

PR

Remember the issues

to keep them alive

_ People do not like to hear bad news. The Davidsonian gives
it to you weekly. “The student rag” you call us.

We do not create bad news to stir up controversy. The issues
are there and we are in a position to see Davidson's faults,
report them, and make the effort to change them. That effort is
futile without student, faculty and administrative support.

The time has come to evaluate Davidson's needs and plan
for action to fill those needs. Before all concern gives way to
the summer’s sun we cannot forget the issues or they will die.

We need to watch the WDAV station. The projected 18,000
watt station is an expense which conflicts with what may view
to be a fair and sensible budget priority system. If the WDAV
goal is realized students need to be sure they have a voice in
the decision making over-programming.

We need to curb the vandalism on campus by stressing pride
in private property and the honor system.

We need to make the EPC’s policy on Extended Studies work
to the benefit of those students who wish to pursue their own
academic course. Faculty members should encourse and
students should undertake competent Extended Studies
projects to support what should be an academic freedom
which challenges the student to get an analytical education.

We need to encourage faculty to conduct research and
publish. A good professor can and should devote time both to
students and independent study research. He/she owes it to

_ the students to stay on top of his field to create an atmosphere

of innovative classroom instruction.

We need to push Dr. Zimmermanrand Dr. Spencer to arrive
at a standard hiring procedure so cases such as the Linden
affair could be avoided.

We need to press Dr. Zimmermann, the Senate, and the
Professional Affairs Committee to arrive at a fair and
standardized means of course and faculty evaluation. Tenure
decisions for the “new generation” of professors will be
coming in the next few years; Davidson would be
unprofessional and inefficient if a system is not created.

We need to eliminate the Christian tenure policy in the
Davidson By-Laws not only to make Davidson realize its
responsibility to the liberal arts ideal but also to regain status
in the academic worid.

This action against Christian tenure proves students and
faculty have the ability to instigate change. The spirit cannot
die.

Davidson needs to open itself to free and open criticism to
remain a true center of intellectual growth. Wéneed a creative,
innovative attitude to revive our present slippage into
stagnation. We have an important job ahead of us.

The Davidsonian is not in the business to “rag”. We are in
the business of improving Davidson College. We need your

_ help.
COATITO LONGO 00... ccc cvecccceccovsescesvedsne . Editor
Dave Keller .......... i PROP TER Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
COUN edocs cc¥cccccccccccccoensee . Features Editor
Bill Barnett & Jim Entwistle ........... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
GUOIGTIY: 6c cc ces cc eterncvectce sive Production Manager
AM@NOG FAN 0... ccc eee cece ceccvececes Managing Editor
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson........... Photography Editors
Kevin Shelly & Peg Travis ...... icin Advertising Editors
SOUTIIE aio Ki cree ccccecccccccccces Circulation Manager
Warren Soule .......... 0. ccc cece ec ee nes Business Manager
MO GMOO 050 ccc tcc c nee tbcecseces innit as Cartoonist
Ann'Garner....... ile EOE ITY Pe ce Asst. Projects Editor
Charles Erwin ...........-0eeeeeeee ., Asst. Features Editor
Published weekly during the school year by st of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box:

_ 348, Davidson, N.C. Yeeriy subsedotion rate: $8.00.
