October 7, 1977

 Soemammnaessiiaey To

White Horse Limited

White Horse Limited advertises “sophisticated
soups, salad, sandwiches, and pizza.’’ Prices are
sophisticated, also; you pay for what you get, and you

get what you pay for. This establishment offers dining

in a multi-tiered complex, with all ABC permits. There
are four Charlotte locations: 215 W. Second St., 4800

Monroe Rd., 413 Eastway Dr., and 1601 East Blvd. No.

reservations are required here, which caters primarily
to the younger set. 332-6507. (B.P.)

Boar’s Head

For as elegant an evening as one can have in
Charlotte, try the Boar’s Head. The atmosphere is
typically overdone bourgeois (trying to be typically
English by failing in plasticity). And the waiters dress
in costumes. But if you settle back with someone you
like you’re in for a romantic evening. The menu offers
variety, but for diehards, the steak is good. Their
sauteed mushrooms are an added specialty well worth
the extra price. And they serve fresh bread with the
meal. It’s not cheap; keep it in mind for special
occasions. (C.L.)

yle

Black Cat Cafe

If you’ve given up meat for one reason or another,
here’s where you can eat out in reasonable style.
Situated on the first floor of the Spirit Square complex,
this establishment offers regular entrees like quiche,
Chinese eggs (eggs scrambled in a Wok with Chinese
vegetables and served over rice), as well as huge salads
(“Organic Panic”) and daily specials such as vegetarian
pizza. Bran muffins, carrot cake, and fresh breads are
available, and if you’re going natural but not
necessarily low-calorie, then try the thick beverages:
one, the ‘‘Nutty Protein’, includes nuts, protein
powder, bananas, whole milk, etc. Atmosphere is very
casual but Seer Spirit Square, 110 East 7th Street,
372-9664. (D.K.)

Tuesday’s
There must be a better way to serve food than to
have the diner competing with half of Charlotte just to
see half of Charlotte—in line beforehand, in line at the
salad -bar, and even across the aisle. Eclectic

decorations such as theatre seats and an operating
traffic light over the bar add to the distractions.

Entrees served on hot skillets— —tasty but not tasteful.

The salad bar’s claim to fame is variety—everything
from pickled okra to garbanzo beans, and delicious herb
bread. If you don’t mind the clatter, and plan to go
shopping anyway, Tuesday’s is the place. Eastland
Mall, 568-5392. (N.M.)

Pedro’s

Located way out Independence Blvd., Pedro’s has
pretty good Mexican food and a nice atmosphere. The

_ Name is a bit unoriginal, but the food and. service are

good. They offer an all-you-can-eat meal for four
people, and they also have a superb assortment of
imported beers. 7400 E. Independence Blvd., 537-3152.

(D.K.)

‘Monale Bill Peeples, Kevin Shelley, Olivia Ware, Carolyn Watt

Nakato

Japanese steakhouses have become almost as
ubiquitous as Kudzu; an innovation gone beserk. If you
haven’t been to one yet, it is fun, once, and the food is
interestingly prepared. Diners are seated communally
at tables that include the grill where your chef does his
act — be prepared to be social with six strangers or
bring some friends. The preparation is high drama with
knives flashing and seasonings being flourished by a
competent but incommunicative chef. Steak, chicken,
and shrimp are the only offerings. The Happy Birthday
song and dessert are worth the money if you want to
really embarrass someone.

(K.S.)

9
~ ‘A Natural Wonder

This is a very personal place with tiny dining rooms
decorated by the finds of innumerable attic sales; the
kind of stuff that seemed stuffy at Aunt Matilda's
seems somehow to work here. As relentlessly tasteful
music washes over you an over-eager waitress explains
the totally vegetarian menu in minute detail, cheerfully
yielding details of the makings of each offering. “After
taking your order the waitress disappears— that’s when
you discover she doubles as cook. Prepare to sit back
and wait a while because everything is freshly made to
order—best dig up someone who still remembers how to
make conversation to accompany you. Service is slow,
but if you order a complete meal it comes in a steady
stream, not the hurried cascade so common in Charlotte
restaurants. Trust the waitress to guide you through
the vegetarian jungle—the food is unique and a real
bargain. After dinner you can catch an old flick at the
Visualite, which is just up the street. (K.S.)

Josh’s

If Charlotte were a city of culture instead of a
trucking center, this is where the urban chic would
escape to, but since it isn’t the consciously hip people
that populate Josh’s look out of place. Warm brown
tones and small rooms make this a comfortable place
but the sound system occasionally overwhelms the
small spaces. A small arty menu features vegetables,
beef, and Josh’s specialty—the spud. You can order it
in a variety of flashy combinations, all of them good,
proving you can dress ’em up and take ‘em out. Service
is efficient but easily lapses into pretentiousness and
smug superiority. (K.S.)

The Oriental

This is Charlotte’s most frequented Chinese rest-
aurant, surely due to its location on Independence
Boulevard. The menu is immense, but the food isn’t as
well-prepared nor the service half as good as, for
example, the House of Jung or the Great Wall. The
Oriental is great for large groups, mainly because of the
compartmentalized dining area and. the combination
meals. Because of its proximity to the Coliseum, it isn’t
a bad place to take a date before a basketball game.
2100 E. Independence Blvd. , 332-2238. (D.K.)

Stonehenge

Stonehenge Restaurant offers wining and dining in
an old English atmosphere. Chef's salad is popular on
the menu, fit for a hungry football player. Wine list is
extensive, with a large variety of beer and soft drinks.
Other courses include many types of sandwiches and
spaghetti. Moderately priced, located at 602 E.
Morehead Street in Charlotte, 374-0191. (B.P.)

Reflections

Reflections is certainly the newest restaurant in
Charlotte, probably the most luxurious dining room
there, and without a doubt one of the most expensive
eating establishments in town. It is the ‘‘top of the
line’’ of three restaurants affiliated with the ritzy
Radisson-NCNB Plaza.

Upon entering Reflections, the mirrors and maitre de
give a preview of what is to come. The decor is modern,
sleek and glistening in the candlelight. Comfortable

_ Stainless steel and black chairs contrast sharply with

white linen tablecloths and form a circle around the

. focal point of the round room—a fountain. The service
is superb; an attentive waiter, a friendly water tender
and various servers.

Dinner for two, without wine, will easily run $25. The
menu is limited, but the portions are generous and the
atmosphere unequaled. Patrons dress tastefully to suit
the surroundings.

The big bargain at Reflections is lunch. For about $3
you get an abundance of atmosphere, super service,
and three custom-made crepes. A special chef, aptly
named ‘‘Pierre’’, stands at a well-laden buffet to cook
the crepes and generously fold in the fillings. The
choices include meat, chicken, seafood, hot apple and

Strawberry fillings with a variety of garnishes. After
adorning your thre¢ choices, an ever-present waiter
carries it back to the table for you. There, the crackers
are already unwrapped and arranged on a linen in silver
a basket and the butter is on ice, in a silver dish, of
coursé-2 NCS: Fuze, 377 -0400. (M.D.
