April 1, 1977 The Davidsonian

Return to Harlem S s heydey

By DAVE KELLER the néw music from Harlem *
Executive Editor was sweeping America, ‘“Har- _
Voices, Inc., a black mus- lem Heyday” includes songs
ical theatre group from New both traditional (“Sweet Geor-
York, will perform ‘‘Harlem gia Brown’’, ‘‘Darktown
Heyday”’ Friday at 2 pm in Strutters’ Ball’’) and original,
front of Chambers (Love Aud- plus dancing and humor.
itorium in case of rain). Voices, Inc. is currently
Their vaudeville acts are touring colleges and universi-
§ popularized versions of the ties across the nation and has
F music and dance of the thir- presented this show and ano-
ties. ther, The Believers, off-

Celebrating the era when

Broadway in New York. VOICES, INC.
Stomp your feet

Bluegrass Blend, a six-
member group from States-

ville, featuring 1976 Union
Grove Banjo Champion Kent
Dowell, will take part in the |
outdoor concert on Richar&™
Field Saturday afternoon. |

They will also be appearing in |
the 900 Room Saturday night
at 9:30 pm.

The group, whose members }
play Dobro, fiddle, guitar,
banjo, mandolin, and_ string
bass, cut an album last year
called ‘“‘Blended Grass"’. In:
cluded in their repertoire are
traditional standards and ori-
ginal bluegrass compositions.

JAMS O’DONNELL
Friday, April 1, 1977

2pm Voices Inc., ‘‘Harlem Hey day”’ Front of Chambers
3 pm Frisbee Contest Front of Chambers
4pm Sculpture Class Union Offices
8&10:30 pm Pop Film: “Psycho” Love Auditorium
10-1:30am Dance with ‘‘Showcase”’ 900 Room
9-1 am Party - Sigma Phi Epsilon Rusk House

KA Masquerade Party KA House

FIJI Party FIJI House
2am Coffee and doughnuts College Union

Saturday, April 2, 1977

1:30 pm Outdoor Musical Festival: Football Stadium
John Stanfield, Edmonds & Curley, Bluegrass Blend
8&9 pm Edmonds & Curley 900 Room
9:30 pm Bluegrass Blend 900 Room
9-1 am PIKA, PAX, and Emanon Party PIKA House
12 midnite Sidewalk Cafe with “Jams O’Donnell”’ Union Patio
lam Breakfast Served Snack Bar
3am Coffee and doughnuts College Union

Laugh with the duo _ |

They played on The Tonight have played such night spots
Show, The Merv Griffin Show as the Copacabana and At-

and over 400 college campuses lanta’s Great Southeast Music
in the U.S. and Canada. Hall. Their show is based on
Edmonds and Curley are rec original skits combined with
ognized by many reviewers as their own sound effects.
the nation’s top comedy team Kdmonds and Curley will
in college appearances. give two 20-minute perfor-
The two have appeared in mances during the afternoon
concert with such performers festivities on the football field
as B.B. King, Papa John and will appear in the 900
EDMONDS AND CURLEY Creech, and Herbie Mann, and Room at 8 pm Saturday night
By PATRICK COVINGTON »yeho has been a center ot The plot centers around a fairly
Staff Writer controversy ever since it first came innocuous-looking motel, where a
The annual Davidson rite of Spring out, with evaluations Fane IDE from young office-worker named Marion :
Frolics is upon us again with con- “third-rate Hitchcock , to one of the Crane (Janet Leigh) arrives on the
certs, kegs, and parties; and, the Pop most profoundly frightening films lam after stealing some money. She is
Films committee is presenting Alfred ever to reach the screen’. In either murdered at the motel, and her siste

case it is a wrenching film, pure
Hitchcock.

(Vera Miles) and boyfriend (
[Continued page 12}

Hitchcock’s 1960 hor ic, Psy-

