Nee a : TI BD ick lari ‘ohare September 16, 1977 S32

Aren't we overreacting?

A Senior walks into the 900. Room. Another student cards him. The
senior does not have his ID Card with him, is turned away at the door.

The student body throws a fit. “Why should | be carded?” he exclaims.
“The attendant knows me, knows I’m 21. This is absurd.” -

Are we spoiled? Is it so difficult to carry an ID Card?

No, it is not hard, but we are not children. The current crackdown on
identification checks has reached the absurd extreme when Tony Boone

pelea everytime he takes a group of international students into the We fi ke Nn d fa il S SO C , a lly

Davidson is not a police state. But neither is it paradise. So we have a What happened last weekend? Either this campus went into early
problem. As one student told Dean Terry years ago, “I’m a student here academic panic or-into hibernation.

like everyone else. | don’t want to be stopped and asked to show my ID lik ‘as ileairt
The first. weekend of the school year looked like a social desert.
papi ne sehen pina vprcones comes But at the same time | have a We are surprised more freshmen nave not left.

How do we solve the problem: maintaining an atmosphere of mature s =

and responsible freedom while insuring effective security? Davidson d ESE rves
We solve it with common sense. =
Our present overreaction toward security is not the solution. ARA can

s
lose its beer license in the 900 Room if they are caught serving beer to | If “—S T systel F }
someone under age. There are several students here still under age. Se e€ eC lon

Why could we not call a meeting of these students so the attendants Thank you, Dr. Spencer, for your stand on self-selection.
can become familiar with them? Davidson is too small for even one person to be ostracized for four

Or why not give the attendants a computer print-out of all students years because of one rejection.
and their ages? If an attendant were unsure about a Student’ S age he Davidson is too competitive to break into small groups adding social
could check the print-out. pressure to academic pressure.

Or we could just relax the rules. If an attendant is in doubt about a Davidson is small enough to come in contact with a variety of Pein:
student’s age he could ask to see some identification. Other students _ not those in a small group. Davidson students do not need the security
could come and go freely. of a close-knit group as a larger university might.

All campus facilities cannot relax the ID check as easily as the 900 Let’s keep self-selection. Keeping it will not demolish the fraternities.
Room. The gym is overrun with non-students; theft occurs frequently. ID They fill aneed of a great many of our students.
checks are not so unreasonable in the gym. But a bidding system would hurt a great deal more.

All we need is a little common sense. Use ID checks when in doubt but _ If we cannot stop the subtle harrassment of selection, let’s at least
don’t overreact. The next step will be to make everyone wear anID Card make open rejection illegal.
on their shirts.

The old maxim, “Spare the rod and spoil the child” does not always ~
work on adults. We are tired of being treated like children, or worse,
convicts. As Tony Boone remarked, “We're being imprisoned by the very
rules that are supposed to help us.”

xis pr. scam’ 4

AND WHAT DO YOu

MEAN "AM I OLD

ENOUGH TO

DRINK /?*

Catharine Gandie:s icc. su... ..., 00th tas .... Editor p :
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ..............- News Editors r ’
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair........... .. .Features Editors cut out this ad ] send $6,
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ........... Editorial Page Editors O r | d

Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors ;

Pe AMIE or cine ee st cals vis ae -,..Managing Editor y Uu name an address to
RR kg 6b 0c candle Rasee's cos boos Production Manager :

HUMenuenniNOS ....c0c san tee Photography Editor TH D ° d 2
WURDE 55, 5 i's's fose oka vv sso ce cee Business Manager & a V/ S onilan
ION odo dic'es bic Gh. 6 90,0 0 ace Advertising Manager

Patsy Daniels ............. er Cartoonist P:-O Box 218
POs bo ho hk sane + 6+. FOCUS Editor . D

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-.

son College. Second class postage paidwetCsviccon, N.C. ite avidson, : N- C:

28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box = Z8036

_ 218, Davidson, N:C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

