A The Davidsonian

February 11, 1977

Grades confine

Students work for grades, not for knowledge. When they get
the grade, they quit working. Knowledge is a
by-product...sometimes. Sometimes it is forgotten.

It is forgotten because grades symbolize performance, not
knowledge, because grades are a tangible unit of measure. An
A means excellent work, a C means average work. An F means
stupidity.

So grades only discourage students from broadening theif”
learning experience. Experimentation is too risky if you have to
worry about grades. Students have few interests because they
have never been encouraged to develop them.

Instead, the “smart ones” learn how to study. They learn to
outguess the teacher, study what will be on the test and make
A’s.

What does that A mean? It means the student was well that
day, that he had gotten enough sleep, that he had no
emotional problems, and knew enough material to pass that
particular test. It.does not necessarily mean he knows
anything about the subject.

The resulting atmosphere cannot be healthy. Priorities soon
are rearranged; relationships get mislaid. Teachers stay ata
distance because they have a weapon that has the ability to
make or break a student’s future.

The pressure is the greatest disease. Most everything a
student does outside of studying is done to relieve pressure
whether it be getting.so drunk he passes Out or breaking ae
windows or playing basketball...all forthe difference between
an 89 or a 90.

What do we propose? The abolition of grades? Yes. At
least abolish them for the freshmen and sophomores. Few
American students are ready at 18 to choose their major
interest. Instilled with the “true spirit of liberal arts” they
should be encouraged to pursue all areas of learning.

Evaluation could be personalized where faculty would give a
written-report describing the student’s work. The student
might receive positive criticism rather than a negative label.

‘If a person is ready to go to college the college should not
have to motivate him to learn. Only those motivated to learn

should go to college anyway. If the student chooses not to
learn, the responsibility is his own, not the school’s.

By encouraging every6ne to go to college the American
educational system has turned its colleges from institutions of
higher learning to institutions of higher kindergarten where
everyone gets four more years to try and grow up.

The system as it stands is exactly why Davidson would not -
be able to abolish grades. The students would not know how
to handle it. Conditioned from the age of six to strive fora
grade instead of knowledge, they would not know what to do
with the freedom.

Education without grades sounds idealistic: It is. But so are
liberal arts. They will become a myth if we do not keep some of
that idealism.

Grades may be the opiate of the student and the professor.

But a college should_stimulate its students, not put them to
sleep.

The Davidsonian

CAINShne:LANGiS ;.. cies os sss cee a Editor
DRVTRM NON iG ci sits) Fock ses snes dis go yee Executive Edjtor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors.
Pe RIKS, oo, t wo oy hice we os HV Features Editor
reap Ta UAC AT SAG Se Sh Ae eames SEES OR SS Sports Editor
Bill Barnett ..... aha pe Gareals 4.¢ 0 ee Editorial Page Editor
KOVITNSINGIIY «ck cece as Coane Special Projects Editor
Susan Colan 2). ca a, oe eee UCton Manager
Amanda Hall & Chuck Kennon ............ Managing Editors
Warren Soule ......... Esp evel vt cere Business Manager
Hunter Jennings & IrvWilson........... Photography Editors
a ALG ks ~ 1s) 1) PORN BRS ACTER, RCRE Ora Re eres. Advertising Manager
VON PRUE rc RN 5a. hs ee Circulation Manager
DONNISmneeWNOMN se: . oc. s ck ccs came. ee Asst. News Editor
CHANGE BIWIN fia ce civ cee cgca be shoes Asst. Features Editor
WHNSIIMINEVVOCIGEHE, olan ¢jiscelcce os 6 bbe ca ae Asst. Sports Editor
LUE VUPEA Ct YPCT 2 ape: PEO A SR are Se Pe oo Cartoonist
AR AMEROr oleae Asst. Projects Editor |

Published weekly during the school year by students of David- .

son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

_ Grab spring early

By CHUCK KENNON
Managing Editor

The phenomenon of Midwinters
1977 is now part of the student
folklore, and it will make a good
standard by which to measure future
rites.

I, and everyone else who stirred out
of their heated cocoons, had a great
time. The weather cooperated fully,
and that brings up the grounds for
another piercing observation about
this school. Davidson, more so than
‘at other places, is dependent on
outside factors to make its various
activities successful.

Last Friday (if anyone can remem-
ber it) was reminiscent of a typically
glorious spring afternoon. The affair
between Cannon and Sentelle augered
well for next term, and showed that
the partying spirit lives on in the
minds and hearts of the faithful few
hard-core.

But none of this would havé
happened had the weather been its
usual ‘‘Davidson drag’. No, I have
not completely lost my marbles and
I’m not going to rag about the fact

Kennon

that we can’t control the six months
long monsoon season here.

My point is pretty simple. At the
risk of flogging a dead horse to a pulp,
I maintain that the lizards here are so
damned complacent and into’ them-
selves that the chances for a good
time have to be handed to them on a
silver platter with a money-back
guarantee. ‘

Depression comes easy during the
winter here;-and the academic grind
doesn’t help any. When the weather
does cooperate spontaneous madness
can save the day, the spirits willing.
Even so, great events like Mother’s
Finest draw disappointing but not
disappointed crowds.

I appreciate the fact that not
everyone is as cool as I am, but the
Davidson tendency to concentrate on
nerding out in the winter is carried to
excess by too many. And their
determination to be oppressed by
murderous amounts of work adds to

- the pain the rest of us have to endure.

Raising hell in the winter isn’t
always easy, but with determination a
staggering change could be wrought.
If only a few of the library rats would
rearrange their rigid little schedules
and allot some time for more?natural
pursuits the atmosphere would be a
lot better. ;

The blossoming of Davidson in the
spring is a wonder to behold, mostly
because everyone is so tired of being
bummed out by the winter. But the
prevailing mood of a campus is a
group effort. .- e

If people refuse to take everything
so seriously, brave the weather occa-
sionally, and strike a blow for rock
and roll then the winter won’t be such
a drag for us all and cruising into the
spring will be ‘as natural as a ten
o’clock buzz.

Letter to the Editor

Offer break

To the Editor:

A couple of times this year I have
Suggested that you might wish to
share your holiday break with an
international student. Time is
drawing near when they should
evaluate their year. How will you
come out in that evaluation? Have
you helped to make their year a better
one? How many have you learned to
know? When you're off on a skiing
jaunt, or just a trip out of'town, have

options

you stopped to think they have no
way to get there? True, they have
Host Families, and good ones! But
the Host Families should not have to
do it all.

Spring vacation is coming up. Food
service will be closed: You still have
time to learn to know a great bunch.
Yes, I admit to prejudice in yneir
behalf. anh

Louise Thompson
Office of International Education

