a
Christian tenure
inconsistent with
College’s ideals

April 22, 1977

© DAVIDSON O

Davidson's Christian Commitment originally sought to
preserve priceless truths born in ages past. The reasoning was
that to inculcate good old Judeo-Christian virtues was to
invest in our nation’s moral and spiritual future. Given the
events of the past week, however, the time for reconsideration
has come. We must now examine carefully the implications of
the Christian Tenure requirement both from the standpoint of
academic excellence and moral propriety, for on both counts it
remains.an anachronistic relic—an abysmal failure.

First, consider the argument that our institution has been
charged with the grave and delicate responsibility for teaching
individuals the value of the “moral” life. Obviously, the desire
to promote Truth and Beauty is unimpeachable—no one in
their right mind would consider thumbing his (or her) nose at
Goodness. On the other hand, it is reasonable to ask whether
or not the exclusion of alternative religious opinions, if only
embedded deeply within the psyche of the pedagogue, can
possibly achieve that commitment. The assertion that others
who hold divergent religious beliefs cannot teach virtue is
absurd. Their minds are not polluted with phillistinism; their
bodies have not been Satanized by an alternative ethical
theory. Instead, we must admit to the possibility that human
virtue may have seemed beyond the borders of Christian
faith—perhaps some of it has managed to trickle down to
lesser dogmas. _

Secondly, at Davidson, it is questionable whether any
concerted religious indoctrination takes place outside the
religion department. The fact that other faiths are also taught
within that department serves cogent notice to the fact of their
tenability. If we must teach only Christian dogma then we have
a clear duty to dispense with the religion department.

Finally, the question of consistency arises. In the past,
non-Christian teachers have been hired presumably because
they are superlative professors. Yet suddenly, the presence of

another faith (Judaism) becomes grounds for exclusion. From
a moral point of view, this is contemptible. From a legal point
of view, controversial. In essence, a Jewish teacher was
offered a contract on the condition that he deny his faith and
integrity..AH this at a school with a Christian commitment.

So now we have grounds for action; a time for commitment.
For any individual who takes seriously our Statement of
Purpose is out of the question. Instead, we must be bold
enough to affirm the role of virtue. And that, in the truest
Agapistic sense, means to discard the Christian Tenure
requirement. It is not the time for witch hunts; not the time to
carry out personal vendettas against persons.in the
administration; not a time for indulging in Inquisition. Instead,
it is the time for the members of the college community to
band together in a concerted display of Christian conscience.
For only by so doing can we hope to preserve our priceless
past without facing a worthless future.

Opinion

NO JEWS
NEED APPLY z

ee g

Wm

Council ignored

By MARK RABIL
Guest Columnist

On April 1, Dr. Spencer sent a
memorandum to the Council on
Campus Life stating that their protest
of a possible golf course is beyond
“the scope of responsibility of the
Council.” ‘‘I believe,’’ says Dr. Spen-
cer, “that the original design of the
Council envisioned its responsibility
to be more in the area with which the
Dean of Students would normally
deal. It is the Dean of the Faculty

who has the responsibility to evaluate
the needs and requests of all depart-
ments on a continuing basis and to
make recommendations as to which
of them should be approved.”

would have no objections to plans for
a golf course if plans for our other
needs were in the making. Should we
accept, for example, $200,000 for the
construction and maintenance of a
three hole golf course? Of course.
Should we accept $200,000 for the
improvement of the infirmary? Of
course—but first we have to make it
known that the infirmary needs to be
improved just as we are beginning to
make it known that it would be nice to
have a golf course.

Dr. Spencer states in his memo
that the proper channels for be-
ginning the plans fora golf course
were followed in-that the Dean of the
Faculty evaluated and approved “the
modest outlay required for the prac-
tice area as justified in comparison
with expenditures of a similar level
which he has approved for other
departments.” What happens when
students and faculty disagree with an
administrative decision which has
been made which they feel affects the
“quality of campus life’? According
to the Constitution, they come to the
Council on Campus Life which then
advises the President if they feel it
necessary.

This is exactly what happened. A

a Article IX. Section.3.b. of the group of students disagreed with the
: = 4 College Constitution states, “The beginning of the plans for a golf
The Davidson ian Council is advisory to the President in course when no plans had been made
all matters affecting the quality of for the improvement of the infirmary
a ae . or psychological guidance. The
e group of students who came to Council agreed with these students
Catherine Landis ............... 5 het ee . Editor chav CoReilon Campus lifeiprotested - and-eo aqeeea qh eamenncey. Dr.
(OO See Executive Editor a golf course because they felt there Spencer replied that it is not within
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors are other aspects of campus life the “scope of responsibility of the
Erica Gjersvik..... 2. ec cece ccc e eee ee enee Features Editor which need to be improved first, such Council” to advise him in this area.
Bill Barnett & Jim Entwistle ........... Editorial Page Editors a bi meget and Psychological Davidson’s governance system, i.e.
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ..... . .Sports Editors uidance. Dr. Spencer’s point that the organization of the SGA, the
BURMTI ivcc sic vc tetas eseepenes Production Manager the solicitation of money for a golf _faculty, the advisory councils, the
BOI vs cccsvesciivesscbesceceun Managing Editor course would not take away money _ president, and the trustees, can only
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson........... Photography Editors from the Infirmary, forexample,is _function if it is used properly. It does
well taken in that the same person not appear that the advisory council
Kevin Shelly & Peg Travis ............... Advertising Editors would bebakleaatad at the ac ;
John Kravet .......... Okc eee Circulation Manager probably not donate to both — on Campus Life is being used to its
Warren Soule Business Manager oU'°°: But who has begun plans for _fullest advantage.
wrrer ee cakes hbk) he 30a Rae the improvement of the Infirmary? Before the govemance system it-
Marlin Geiger ..........--. eee eee cece ees .++.+.Cartoonist Why is a golf course thought about _self is evaluated next year there needs
Ann o AES We hire wer oa are cae : eee ee Seite while the infirmary is not considered? to be an evaluation of how the new
Charles Erwin: ........ cect eee e eens .

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College.. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, *!.° Yearly subscrintion ret=: £4.9Q..¢5,

The Coucil protested the beginning
of the plans for a golf course or
practice area because these plans
were begun and approved before
plans for the Infirmary or psychologi-
cal guidance were even nmngsed. We

governance system is being used
now. If the system is not being used
according to the guidelines set torth
by the College Constitution how can
it honestly be evaluated when the
time comae? ~ simsue-,

‘
