thedavidsonian

January 14, 1977

Issue demands

discussion, not rumour

The Davidsonian’s focus this week features the Extended
Studies Program to change rumors to intelligent discussion.

Most students know the EPC is investigating the Extended
Studies Program. The committee has not yet presented their
report to the faculty, nor will they in the January faculty
meeting.

So the fate of Extended Studies has not been decided;
Extended Studies have not been abolished.

We hope Focus provokes discussion by students and faculty
so that when the EPC presents their report, they can form
responsible opinions about an issue which affects the quality
of Davidson’s educational policy.

Save your sacrifice

Rolfe Neill does not know much about sacrifice when he
says “I'll keep the $400, but the state shouldn't aid Davidson.”
In his January 9 editorial he says he’d rather see private
schools abolished than see an increase in state aid for them
before increasing funding to state schools.

His sacrifice is far from noble, nor is it logical. It costs less
to send a student to a public school only to the student, not to
the state.

The state pays approximately $2000 for each public schoo!
student, $400 for each private school student. If private
schools fold, the state institutions will have to absorb the
private school students and- increase that $400 to $2000.

The sacrifice is not just monetary. Neill sends his daughter
to a private school but does not acknowledge the need for
them. Private institutions differ from public ones only in
sponsorship, not in function. In function, private schools and
public institutions serve the public need for a choice in higher
education. Q

Small classes, for example, are a choice for which some
people opt. Neill calls them “luxuries”. They are not luxuries.
To sacrifice them would uphold the procedure of equalizing on
a bad scale.

The sacrifice does not make sense economically; it does not
make sense educationally. We’re not willing to accept that
sacrifice.

tne dawdsonian

CMU RU ESM 6G oc6 cs vce ep aa ehh esc he cna une Editor
Bo 4 Sere earner rari ara ai Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
Tip 0 11 ATT COSI emcee Ay ar re Perenner era Features Editor
MMPI MDREMAIEDIOO, v6 oc ts cece bey 6.0 cwleee « ol aee Sports Editor
PDC CUMEMNERE 50095 V4 ais s Fpthehoures 5 ace acueaa Editorial Page Editor
PRGMAEIMEITIEIIN 2 5 06 yo e's o's 06 8 0's coceea che Special Projects Editor
Sad MME MRCAMNE 66s; 05; GThahie chee s'b Saco ab Cae Production Manager
Amanda Hall & Chuck Kennon ............ Managing Editors
VVMTt RR hoe isda sik a os 0's 9 4:84 eee cam Business Manager
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson........... Photography Editors
WOMAN 050 yc bs va ties vo hese eee Advertising Manager
John Kravet .......... See car ye Circulation Manager
COGN RAL MEUNEM xs), o.-0.035. mere. vactiecenesecacenenabenl Asst. News Editor
GROMRIN oes cc cae Cabos cea Asst. Features Editor
iit ly def EM 2 (Dc (1 | FAS a ee er Ee Asst. Sports Editor
Mariiraeer os. res yee te oie ee eee Cartoonist
PEIN ooo as a es So eee Asst. Projects Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate:$6.00.

styl)
Cae, ¥ hs

Social scene stinks

By CHUCK KENNON
Editorial Columnist

It’s difficult to write about some-
thing when you know that what you
say will offend about 70 percent of the
reading public here, even when you
mean to offend them on purpose. This
difficulty is compounded because I
know that most of you out there in
Voidland will pass my words off as
the innane product of a demented
mind whose grip on reality is quest-
ionable at best.

The opinions expressed in editorials
written by Editorial Columnists are
not necessarily the opinion of the
Editorial staff of The Davidsonian.
Instead, they are the opinions of the
Columnist only.

But I shall proceed, undaunted by
the sneers of the unenlightened
masses, aware of all the flaws
my arguments that you will jump
upon, finding much solace in the fact
that I shall be gone from here in 16
short weeks. (‘‘Hallelujia’s” ring out
from all corners.)

To get to the point of all this: The
Davidson social scene; four words
that succinctly come to the crux of
this place’s problems.

Any social matrix is defined by the
people contained therein, and when I
view the social game and its players
here I have to laugh to keep from
crying. It is a pitiable farce, a joke
that could only be perpetrated by a
cabal of dirty little old ladies who get
their kicks from others’ frustrations,
and the agony will continue as long as
each new class looks as if it collecti-
vely stepped from the pages of
Seventeen with their ‘‘I Found It’”’
signs. Well they can have it. ;

The main aspect of this mess is that
coeducation, so far as this school is
concerned, is a fraud. The sickening
game of ‘‘touch-me-not”’ as played by
the perpetual-motion boppers that:
roam the library, the Union, and
other focal points will last until
something approaching a 50-50 ratio
is reached, Meanwhile, things are
impossible for those who want normal
associations without the pressures
that stem from the simple lack of
females.

As it now stands the social scene
here has recently crystallized into
something so unnatural that it really
is evil. The plastic fairy goddesses
cruise around amongst their numer-
ous ardent khaki beaus, existing in a
cheery world of hearts, flowers, and
group weekends at Sugar.

Since those chicks aren’t for real
anyway the competiton for the few
normal ones is fierce. This is comp-
ounded by the fact that you can’t help
but see repeatedly the same old faces
and everyone knows everyone else all
too well.

Thus several interlocking problems
arise. Most of the students here think
alike when they bother to think at all.
The gosip is relentless and reputa-
tions are easily made and impossible
to live down. Once two people see
each other with any frequency at all
the small minds here will assume they
have a “‘relationship’”’.

The thought being father to the
deed and peer pressure being what it
is, if things don’t work out for them
others automatically assume some-
thing is “‘wrong” with one of the two.
Statements by very interested by-
standers are made, the rumor mill
grinds away, and reputations are
enhanced or bruised accordingly.
From little incidents are tall tales
made, and just plain normal boy-girl
encounters become impossible be-
cause people’s names precede them so
much on campus. Objectivity is an

extinct species.

Knowing all of this is true, one
becomes really stifled. The cards are
so stacked against a person that the
barriers of ‘‘What’s the use?’”’ are
erected and people remain in their
comfortable if confining small circles.

Familiarity breeds contempt, and
contempt then spawns rejection.
Those raised in the Davidson of
several years ago got the brunt in the
campaigns of coping with the even
smaller number of coeds and with-
drew from the struggle with a
vengeance because it’s been thrown in
their faces day in and day out for too
long a time. So now the scene is out of
their hands and it has become

[see SOCIAL SCENE, page 15]
