ee . wee ee
toe in Sa

cow

September 23, 1977

: = = re _
For men only ? ‘
In light Of Dr. Spencer's statements on coeaucation at his
September 13 meeting, the ad run by the Athletic Department
in the September 20 Announcement sheet is outrageous. The
ad reads: yo
- “ATTENTION FRESHMAN MEN: Davidson College Athletic
Department is looking for a young man in the fresnman Class
who is experienced in 16 mm movie photography and who
would be willing to become involved in 16 mm film production
(including editing and splicing) of football and basketball
games. If interested, contact Philip Blue at -4831 after 6 pm.”
Are freshmen women not able to run 16 mm cameras? Are
they incapable of being interested in football and basketball?.
If Davidson is to stop being a “college for young men who
graciously let women join them" mistakes like these should
not be allowed. = —— oe

Rethink freshman hall

Let's take time to consider the freshman hall.

It’s a good institution for many students. Fresh out of high
school the freshman adjusts to college life with his peers. ——
Members make friends, establish unity. Often the bonds made
between members of a hall persist through all four years of
their education.

Just as often, however, unity turns inward. The security that

IE THE TRUSTEES DOWT Fivd You -- Fwd THEM /

The Trustees will be on campus October 6 and 7. Decisions
they will make at this meeting and subsequent meetings will
affect the educational experience of every Davidson student.
We urge everyone to make an effort to meet with them,
exchange ideas, let them know we are interested in their e

~ decisions.

~e

Alma mater hurries back

- the hall-provides for the freshman in-his-initialdays bec ———4nwrarnlo— St d nr rthe Gd Yiy7—
security blanket, in which students turn to avoid challenge. or ° t OWar ds RY Uf : ent O O OXY

stimulation.

Let’s ask some fundamental questions:

Do some freshmen tend to stick together rather than
bridging halls and classes to find friends?

Do some freshmen depend on their hall counselors too

~ much? ————_—_ SO OOOO OO

Are there freshmen who “do not fit” on the hall and feel
ostracized?

Do some freshmen need upperclassmen advice, yet do not
get it because of a personality conflict with their hall
counselors?

If the answerscare yes, we need to explore alternatives.
Mixed halls would expose freshmen to a variety of
upperclassmen who could help them adjust, not to the
freshman hall, but to the entire college community. Freshmen
would be challenged more than now simply because of the
contact with maturer viewpoints. ,

But it’s been said challenge lends to growth.

So we're left with two alternatives: freshman halls and mixed
halls. One is good for some; one is good for others. A third
alternative would be to offer a choice. Provide both freshman
halls and mixed halls and let the freshmen decide which he
would like to join.

The freshman hall has gone too long without open
challenge. Guse, the freshman hall is a good institution but it
produces too many negative results and has too great an
impact of a student's educational career to be accepted
without question. t8f's at least conduct a thorough evaluation

— to make sure we establish a system of greatest value to the
entire college community.

By KEVIN SHELLY

Ralphy and me are teelin’ kinda low
and unpatriotic these days. See. we
weren't aroun las’ weekend, so we
didn't get ta learn the words to the
fight song like everybody else did
during the football game with Gil’s
old school. You only sing the damn
thing when you get a touchdown. so
even though we been here too long
already we still don't know it. Mebbe
we'll have a chance to be repentant at
the game against Goucher.

After all the low things we said

‘bout conventions ‘n such last week.

we hate ta admit it. but we went ta

one last weekend. It was kinda a
mistake, but a fortuitous one. You
see, Ralphy got this thing in the mail
and he made the mistake of readin’ it
Friday night in the 900 Room between
beer ‘n cruisin’. Well, he thought it
read, ‘Singing and Cymbal with
Chowder" so naturally he pulled out
the check book and reserved us a
spot. .-
Turns out we got signed up for a
colloquium called ‘‘Sign and Symbol
in Chaucer”, but we'd already mailed
the forty bucks and that included a
cocktail hour, so what the hell, off we
went. «

It was sponsored by the MLA. Now

——— = — s everyone thinks that means -Misan- ~-a damn disco. Can ya ‘magine one of ,
; SONMIAN = trropic reague of America, but asall them new guys in leotards?”

literateurs know, it means the Myso-

Gatherine Landis .............. 0s. see vee sete ere es Editor " ginistic Linguist Association. Either

Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair ............. Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ........... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
Amanda Hall ........ 0.0.0... e eee eens Managing Editor
Hunter Jennings................5. oes Photography Editor
Susan Colan ,.:....... Leen eee eens . Production Manager
Warren Soule ......... 0... eee eee Business Manager
Brian Benninghoff .......... eee eae Advertising Manager
Patsy Daniels ................0 cee eee “eee eee Cartoonist
Gregg Strader ..........  ......00. bee eeae Photographer
Ann Garner... 6.66 en ce eee Focus Editor

Published weekly during the schoo) year by students of David:
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
“99N2k Address all corresnancdanca ta The. Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

way we'd a-fit in. The MLA is kinda
pinched for money right now; Joyce
hasn't written anything new lately so
lotsa folk are writin’ poetry or out of
work, or both, or even teaching, s

they. hadda have it at Lees McCrae

College out in the N.C. mountains so_

they could get off peak rates. They
don’t even have a Hardee’s in town.
—— Well, there were some pretty
interestin’ folk there, and we enjoyed
what we heard while we were awake a
whole lot. Good ol’ Les Fiedler, the
fellow that wrote that book Novel
Forms of Love and Death in America
gave the introductory spiel. It was
called “The Hidden Heterosexuality
of Natty Bumpo"’, whicn o1 course

|

grabbed out attention. But the big
gunhead honcho critic came the last
day. as they always do. Yep. Norton
Fry. head mythapoeic man addressed
the group on “Symbol and Myth in
Magazine Journalism’. Naturally the
response was overwhelming....

This whole affair got us ta thinkin’
as we were windin’ our way back
‘bout the mythical figures of ol’ DC.
We could remember a bunch of ‘em,
but not a one was still at school.
They'd all disappeared: absorbed is
probably more correct. Just like a
story without loads of mythical
overlay and a large dose of artistic
ambiguity. The campus wasn't all it
could be; why have one layer when
you can easily squeeze in three or
four, Ralphy asked rhetorically.

Well, I couldn't agree more. It
reminded me of gettin’ a plain ol’
cheese pizza when a So’s Your Mother
could be had instead.

‘Member OI Hawk Hoon, pre-med
cum editor of The Davidsonian, bon-
vivant, motor cyclist and generally
cool-type?’’ queried Ralphy. ,

I shot back, ‘‘And what of the other
Gozinyas of old, specially crazy
Steve? I think he’s even married.”’

‘You're kiddin’. CA and YB are
gone, too. Those guys were cool
before they even let hoop players run

‘No more creative craziness, that’s —

‘

for sure. Wags, Big E, Hooter...gone.
And the dog populations’s boomin’
since Crosswhite slipped off.”

“No more thighs to prove their
prowess in the gym or the sheets
either. What have we come to?”

“Sure is a tamer place. Fireman’s
pullin’ beers, Quinby’s quaffing soda,
and Kennon is in law school and n
one’s heard a Lex. Veazey.” —

‘Faded or co-opted. Sure does
make ya think. No more myth. No
more heroes. Orthodoxy is closin’ in
on the place.”’ |

“Us, too." |

“Let's get jobs drivin’ a Peterbilt. I
hear life on the road is kinda laid

back."’

“Swell by me.”
