VuULuUT 1, LUNs

\

5

Travel induces academic interests

By DR. LOUIS ORTMAYER
Professor of Political Science
Facuky Guest Columnist

Students periodically ask me how I
became involved in the areas of my
political research and writing. My
initial inclination is to stress the great
seriousness of the political scientist in
the task of ferreting out and attemp-
ting to explain important political
phenomena and the careful and
rational process by which we in the
profession go about selecting the
most relevant ‘subjects of study. But
then I have to admit that, in my case,
such topics evolved more haphazardly
from chance occurrences, which ac-
quired that crucial aura of “relevan-
cy’’ only gradually, in perspective
long after these events had taken to
intrinsic interest for me personally.

Many cliches and truisms have
been written about the benefits and
joys of travel. Without wishing to
expand this list unduly, let me just
say that travel is not only broadening
but is oftentimes baffling. Baffling is
used here in the sense that I often
wonder how I have become so

involved with political issues and
events, which a short time before had
no real importance in my life nor any
especial priority in my political world-
view. Happily, I have concluded that
travel is also politicizing (as many
who have endured JYA can attest) in
terms of many levels of political
awareness, if only one stumbles in the
proper direction and probes explan-
ation and not mere observation about
things encountered. Along with new
sights and sounds, travel brings the
unanticipated, the unplanned, and
the joyously perplexing.

Bonn demonstrations

I remember happening one day
while living in West Germany onto a
massive political demonstration in the
heart of Bonn. The rally was spon-
sored by a colorful conglomeration of
conservative political. groupings ar-
oused into protest against the impen-
ding West German treaties with
Moscow and Warsaw, the corner-
stones of Willy Brandt’s Ostpolitik.
(This rally is to be distinguished from

Seeker asseverates

self-selection for
Homecoming Court

By Rev. HYDEN SEEKER

Homecoming is the delightful time
of year when the alumni return to
campus, reflect on their wonderful
years here, and hopefully give money.
It is also the time of year when
everyone who has nothing more
important to do chastises the Alumni
Office for the sexist. practice of
selecting Homecoming Queen.

There is an easy solution to this
problem, one that is in perfect
keeping with the Davidson philoso-
phy--choose the Homecoming repre-
sentative for the school by a process
of self-selection.

Theprocess would be a relatively
simple one, very similar to the current
self-selection method now in use for
Patterson Court.

At the first of the year, any girl
(let’s make it fair--any girl or guy)
who was interested in being Home-
coming King/Queen/Fairy or what-
ever would have the opportunity- to
acquaint themselves with the position
of Homecoming Queen and his/her
court. Zach Long could make himself
available to answer any and all
questions.

The next step for the desirous
candidate would involve obtaining a
sponsoring organization. Careful
oversight must be ensured so that
no eating house or fraternity would.
attempt to discourage any candidate
from seeking that house as a sponsor,
and especially to prevent any house
from seeking out or “rushing” its own
representative.

The Homecoming Queen hopefuls
would sign up for a house as a first,
second, or.third choice, just like the
freshman class currently does in
choosing places on Patterson Court.
The candidates would be.ranked at

random and then assigned a house.

Naturally, since each house can
have only one candidate, spaces
available for this process would be
somewhat limited. this is unfortu=
nate, but in order to maintain the true
spirit of self-selection, certain sacri-
fices would have to be made.

Finally, the big day would arrive.
After dressing in whatever tacky
attire Zach decided to have for that
year, the remaining candidates would
assemble in separate rows of Love
Auditorium during halftime. Some
ludicrous announcer would get up
front and begin to draw the aisle
numbers from a hat.

But instead of going downstairs to
Chambers Basement/Gallery as their
aisles were called, the candidates
would walk to Richardson Stadium.
On the field would be sign up tables
for the position of Davidson Home-
coming Queen as well as tables for
each member of his/her court. Thus,
whoever signs at the Queen’s table
first gets the flowers, the kisses from
ex-Governor Holshouser, and the
pictures in Update.

It seems like a much fairer process
than the one presently in use. This
method eliminates any evaluation, of
an individual by a group. Dr. Spencer
and the Advisory Subcommittee have
expressed their abhorence at such a
practice.

Moreover, choosing the .Home
coming Queen via self-selection allows
everyone on campus an equal oppor-
tunity to serve as Queen, so that the
less pretty, less academically gifted,
or the less cool would not suffer from
“social illiteracy’.

I figure it this way--if a peanut
farmer from Georgia can be Presi-
dent, why can’t the editor of the
Davidsonian be Homecoming Queen? _

the one the week before staged by

_ dairy farmers outraged by low milk:

support prices, during which the
observer had avoiding the
kicks of hundreds of cows herded
before city hall for the occasion, and
tread ever so lightly between the
remains of this manifestation.) It was
more difficult for the spectator in the
latter occurrence not to be politicized,
or at least inquisitive, when shattered
by trumpets and drum rolls, and
vague intimations of having seen this
all before in a 1934 Leni Riefenstahl
production. Moreover, one exper-
ienced a certain heart palpitation
when challenged for not displaying
any of a range of available political
paraphenalia from Verrater ‘raus to
kein Geschaft mit Diktaturen.

Surviving several ensuing melees
between the demonstrators and radi-
cal groups of another persuasion, I
decided to sort out for myself the
elements of a political process which
could bring such masses into the
streets, tubas onto heads, and evoke
such strong emotions in a town more
known for a placid, rather boring
political routine. Never did I quite
imagine that involvement with pow-
erful German expellee organizations,
entanglements with the Bonn political
parties in a knock-down drag-out
struggle over the ratification of the
Eastern Treaties, and a persistent
interest in the convoluted intricacies
of Bonn’s coalition politics would
develop from that day of the bruised
ribs. Nor did I anticipate the long
months and days of remorse that
woud convert this politicized moment
into a doctoral thesis. After all, I had
actually intended that afternoon to
attend a football match...

Rome and the East

I also recall several days in Rome
spent pouring through the vast
treasures of the Vatican and musing
to myself quizically how odd it was
that such an historical bastion of
religious influence and worldly power
could have declined into the seeming
state today of an archaic museum
showpiece and besieged enclave en-
trenched behind long obsolete ram-
parts covered with secular (mostly
Communist) graffiti. I promised my-
self to file away these questions for
future reference and deliberation al-
ong with myriads of others to be
“resolved” one day. Life, neverthe-
less, took me to teach at a Catholic
college where I was once reminded in
class that the Vatican continued to
exist as an important international
actor.

In order that I not be caught again
singularly ill-prepared in the analysis
of a ‘‘relevant’’ issue, I decided that
indeed appearances were deceiving,
and that Vatican politics were worthy
of the attention of political scientists
as well as archivists and theologians.
Remembering the by-now blurred
image of the walled heavenly city
surrounded more-or-less by slogan-
chanting heretics, I set, out to explore
just what the Holy See was doing to
meet the challenge of Communism
both within the volatile Italian state
and in Eastern Europe. To my

surprise, instead of the expected siege

mentality, I discovered a well-advan-
ced Christian-Marxist dialogue, a
Vatican detente diplomacy of unpre-
cedented scale, and a colorful, Kissin-
geresque Vatican envoy (Archbishop
Casaroli) whose negotiations in War-
saw, Budapest, and Moscow rivaled

in energy and possible political
change, if certainly not media cover-
age, the arm-linking, champagne-
drinking detente of the superpowers.
And just to think, friends had advised
me to avoid Rome because of the

Church and State

Travel also sharpens, or indeed
awakens, one’s feel for the proverbial
political pulse of a nation. In Poland
the Church-Communist relationship
is perhaps the most sensitive barome-
ter of the current national situation.
The power of the Catholic Church in
Polish politics and society was
brought home to me graphically one
cold Christmas Eve. In the northern
district capital of Olsztyn public
transportation closed down at 11 pm
instead of the normal wee morning
hours. Along with zero degree tem-
peratures such official acts were
intended to blunt attendance at the
Church’s traditional midnight cele-
brations. Walking with relatives and
friends some two miles into town from
the university where we were staying,
I fully expected that our small group
might double the church-going popu-
lation in such bitter conditions. At
the oversized parish church, however,
we were barely able to shoulder our
way into the crowds standing within,
even though all the pews had been
removed to accomodate the awaited
overflow. Most likely assuming that I
was witnessing mere pageantry and
quaint custom, I found otherwise.

Church attendance in Poland, along
with its religious and social dimen-
sions, is a political act; Polish
Catholicism’s socio-political role to-
gether with nationalism stand at the
core of Polish national culture. More-
over, the Church’s attraction is not
merely that of bulwark or protest
against the communist state, but it is
that of guardian of Polish customs,
norms, and social institutions. For
instance, the Church did not hesitate
to support party and state in the
latter’s urgent appeal for order and
caution during the 1976°summer food
riots, given both the Church and
party’s common interest in main-
taining Poland’s hard-won, relative
internal autonomy in the face of
possible Soviet intervention. The
signs of Church influence are appa-
rent to the casual observer in Poland;
the interested researcher as I became
subsequently finds the party openly
admitting this influence—a pheno-
menon not common in Eastern Eur-
ope. My fascination with the dyna-
mics of this Church-state interaction
has prompted several long-term re-
search endeavors, including the habi-
tual ‘‘manuscript-in-preparation’’ of
the present. Fortunately for me, and
the characteristically laborious pro-
cess of putting research to words
while engaged in full-time teaching,
and for the continuing health state of
Polish Catholic politics, ‘‘Jeszcze
Polska nie zginela....’’

In closing, let me say that I admire
the scholar who has the a, priori
insight to determine the important
political research issues of our times.
Maybe I have to be jostled in the
crowd, or hit over the head, or struck
by the irony and paradox of events in
order to focus and pursue my own
interests. But that doesn’t really
bother me, because that keeps travel
and the discovery of what-is-evér-
next-round-the-bend high on my ag-
enda.
