January 21, 1977

The Davidsonian

Personalities

By MERIDETH DURDEN
Staff Writer

Have you ever heard of cloisonne?
This art form is as alien to an average
Davidson student as Davidson is to
an average Northerner.

“Cloisonne,” explained John High-
smith, ‘is French for ‘partitioned.’ ”
Cloisonne is an intricate type of
enameling characterized by wire par-
titions that separate colors. The wire
is bent into shape and placed on a
piece of copper. Various colors of
powdered glass are then fused onto
the design by baking the form in a
kiln.

John, a freshman pre-med major,
began enameling in an exploratory art
class in high school and for the past
four years he has specialized in
cloisonne. By reading books, talking
to professional enamelists, and con-
stantly working, John has become an
expert. His only summer job is selling
the necklaces, trays and candy dishes
which he enamels.

When asked where he gets his
designs John answered, ‘‘I seek my
inspiration from fellow artists.” (In
other words, he steals them.) They
are mostly geometrical, though there
are some scenic views and a rendition
of the Rose Window in Westminster
Abbey.

Each design must first be formed
out of wire. ‘‘This is the most
time-consuming part,” says High-
smith. ‘It takes ten to fifteen hours
to finish an average piece. It relaxes
me.”

For any interested enamelists,
John is working out a probable
cloisonne course. ‘‘When I came for
my Davidson interviéw, I brought
some of my work and Admissions said
they'd find a way for me to continue
it.” Now, under the sponsorship of
Dr. Ostwalt, John is planning a
spring term class. The course, offici-
ally under Extended Studies, will be
offered to five students.

The Union may provide the neces-
sary space, specifically the Arts and
Crafts Room. The Union will also foot
the bill for the two hundred-dollar
kiln. Nothing about the course is
certain yet, but hopefully by spring
term the arrangements will be com-
plete and Davidson will have one
frustrated artist.

HIGHSMITH shows off example of his art.

9g

Highsmith reveals cloisonne craft

. (Hunter Jennings)

...Eva falls short of Superstar fame

with the second song on Side Three,
starts with Che questioning Eva as to
her rise to power. Eva evades his
questions, and instead begins prepar-
ations for her tour of Europe, which is
forthcoming.

“Rainbow High’’, which begins this
part of the story, is perhaps the best
song on the album. The music, while
not very good, is probably the best on
the album. But what makes the song
really stand out is the combination of
Rice’s lyrics and the vocals of Julie
Covington, who portrays Eva on the
album. Covington expresses the
haughtiness of the new Argentinian
first lady, and Rice’s lyrics give vent
to Eva’s acquisition of power. An
example is, ‘‘I came from the people,
they need to adore me, so Christian
Dior me...”

turns out not to be the success she
thought it would be. In fact, it turned
out to be a failure.

The last song on Side Three and the
whole of Side Four portrays the
founding of the Eva Peron Founda-
tion. While very few people in Argen-
tina benefitted from it, those who did
spread her praise, and soon she was
treated as a saint in the country. This
feeling of power and public acceptance
went to her head, and she tried to talk
her husband into letting her run for
the office of Vice-president.

At the same time, opposition to her
grows to an all-time high in the
military. She also finds out that she
has cancer, and gradually begins to
lose her strength. As her life draws to
a close, she laments whether or not

Where Webber and Rice succeeded
with ‘Jesus Christ, Superstar’’, they
have failed with Evita. The concept of
a rock opera based on the life of Eva
Peron had some potential. But one
gets the feeling from listening to the
album that they decided half-way
through the album that the concept
wouldn’t work, yet decided to finish it
anyways. The album is marked by
repetitious music, and a copying of
the style of music which made ‘‘Jesus
Christ, Superstar’’ so successful. The
music on this album lacks the driving
force of their previous work. The only
saving graces are the lyrics of Rice,
and the vocals of Covington.

Next thing you know, they’ll be
writing a rock opera based on the life
of Sam Spencer. I don’t know what
they would entitle it, but “Give My

The remainder of the third side __ her life would have been longer and Regards to Williams’’ would be
CLOISONNE BOWL depicts her tour of Europe which __ happier if she had led a simpler life. appropriate.
/ Up and COMING “=
2pm Bob Cullen Workshop (Journalist) 900 Room
5 pm SwimmingOld Dominion Norfolk, Va.
Tuesday, January 25, 1977 7pm Mountaineering Morrison Room
; Sculpting Class Arts & Crafts Room
10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room 8:15 pm Pierre Feit, Oboe and the Hodson Hall
12:30pm CROP Meal 900 Room Milliere String Trio
4:30 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship Morrison Room 8&10:30 pm Pop Film: ‘‘Mahogany”’ Love Auditorium
6:30 pm Women’s Basketball: Newberry J rei
7pm Worship Service Saturday, January 22, 1977
7:30 pm Basketball: Appalachian Boone, N .C.
Classroom Film: 1 ang my ® Layee 1pm Women’s Basketball: Western Cullowhee, N.C.
Journey into Night Carolina
2pm Swimming: William & Mary Williamsburg, Va.
Wednesday, January 26, 1977 Wrestling Tournament: The Citadel ‘ Charleston, S.C.
Morrison Room 4pm Basketball: South Carolina Columbia, S.C.
and ae Perkina AuidRertét (Televised)
4pm Rural Health Care isaac 9:30&11 pm John McEuen 900 Room
Physician Discussion ;
7pm Jam oernn _ aan on, Sunday, January 23, 1977
7:30 pm Poetry Reading
Symposium: ‘Changing Structure parece nian 6:30 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship Morrison Room
of Capital Markets aba
8 pm Philanthropic Literary Society Phi Ha Monday, January 24, 1977
Thursday, January 27, 1977 2:45 pm Yoga Class Morrison Room
Hall 8pm Rediscovering American Movies: Love Auditorium
10am Coffee and Cokes ; ‘ pce “Golddiggers of 1933”
2pm Transcendental Meditation peel oie ot Psychology Club Morrison Room
7pm Women’s Beskethal: eee tke seolewns bag 8:30pm Organ Recital: Wilmer Hayden Welsh rere
i : “Richa S ¢ Conference Room
8pm . Fine Film Morrison Room 9pm College Democrats

Career Seminar

