April 14, 1978

‘ay 5

MRS. MALCOLM Lester and friends compare crafts, hobbies at the Depot.

Fine films offer change

By SID BARRETT
Guest Writer

Are you looking for a constructive
escape from the routine? Is watching
“Three’s Company” not broadening your
horizons? Maybe you should take a good
look at Davidson's Fine Film program,
the four remaining shows are well worth
taking an hour or two out of your

Wednesday night schedule.

April 19: Producer David O’Selznick
combines the original sets and the star of
his earlier ‘‘King Kong’’ in ‘‘The Most
Dangerous Game,” with Fay Ray and Joel

McCrae.

April 26: Burton and Taylor battle it

Student wins photo award

By ANN SHEAFFER
Special Projects Editor

Junior Bill Billings has won first

By SALLIE SUMMEY
Staff Writer

Operating out of the depot, the
recently formed Davidson Senior Ser-
vices Club (DSS) has been providing
services and recreation for the elderly
in and around the Davidson commun-
ity.

A committee formed by the David-
son College Presbyterian Church initia-
ted the program, but the DSS, inde-
pendent of the church, now functions
under the leadership of Executive
Director Brigid O’Conner.

Ninety-five senior citizens from the
Davidson Community compose the
club which meets bi-monthly.

“On a rollicking good day, we’ll have
fifty members or more at a meeting,”
O’Conner stated.

‘*‘We have had various programs,
such as a jazz pianist from the college,
slide shows, and a ‘Show and_ Tell’
where members displayed foreign and

PO oc By MARGARET JACKSON
Staff Writer

(David Litaker) The nine-year-old Charles Lloyd was
wandering in the woods with a friend
when the darkness fell, and the two
could not find their way home. Finally
out in Franco Zefferelli’s production of Lloyd spotted a campfire and the boys

Shakespeare’s ‘‘Taming of the Shrew.” made their way towards it, to find

May 3: The most bizarre Bond of all: Richard Chase. : :
David Niven as 007 in ‘‘Casino Royale,”’ The first time I ever saw him was in

costarring Ursula Andress, Peter Sellers the dark. I Suess he was seventeen or
and Wood Allen. A must for anyone who eighteen at the time,’ recalls Lloyd.
has ever wanted to take apart the Bond Chase eventually returned the boys
image; who says Hitler doesn’t run the to their homes, but first, Lloyd said,
phone company? “We had to be calmed down.”’

Next year’s Fine Film Program will be The skilled storyteller worked his
chosen in the next two weeks. If you're ™@gic on the frightened boys. Explain-
interested in joining, you still have time to ed Lloyd, “He told us the story of the
help. Duties include taking tickets at the liad.

door occasionally, and the benefits are free This long-time devotee to prety:
admission and the usual grad record telling and folklore visited Davidson

blurb. Watch for the announcement for ‘his week as a guest of the Speakers
our next meeting. Committee. He was invited on the

honorable mentions in last year’s N.C.
Press Photographers Spot News Con-

-place as best student photographer of
the year for news photos in the
Southern Short Course Competition.

Billings was named Student Photo-
grapher of the Year in that competi-
tion.The contest is sanctioned by the
North Carolina Press Photographers’
Association, and considers entries from
a 15-state region in the Southeast.

Billings received the award for a
portfolio of news photographs taken
during the past year, while he has been
working for the Charlotte Observer.

Billings won first place and two

test and in his freshman year received a
second place award in the N.C. Press
Association competition, again for spot
news photography.

Billings began taking photographs
when he was 15, and by age 17 he was
working for the Salisbury Post. He
kept that job until last summer, when
he began his current job with the
Observer.

After graduation, Billings hopes to
work for a newspaper for a few years,
then establish his own photography
shop.

Billings is a Davidson junior.

Long-lived enjoy depot

antique treasures that they had collect-
ed down through the years.”’

According to O’Conner, the purpose
of the DSS is to “help the elderly
remain in their homes as long as
possible, as opposed to institutions
such as rest homes.”

The club hopes to achieve this by
providing services such as sitters,
transportation to nearby towns, house
cleaning, and yard work.

“In the future we hope to deepen and
strengthen our service, and use the
building for more activities and more
social events,’’ commented O’Conner.

“The college has been most helpful in
letting us use the depot and also in
their support, and we appreciate this.”’

Mrs. C.F. Forbes, DSS member,
remarked, ‘‘It gives me a chance to see
and be with my friends. My husband
used to work with the railroad company
and he worked in that depot, but it sure
doesn’t look like a depot now. You just
can’t beat Davidson.”

Folklorist rescues Lloyd

suggestion of Professor of English
Charles Lloya.

According to Chase, himself, he has
been ‘‘telling tales, singing, and shoot-
ing ‘‘the bull” during his stay. He
attended an open dinner and a dance on
the Union patio.

Chase, who says folklore. ‘‘is based
on grassroots stuff,’’ enjoys English
dancing and he plays the harmonica
and woodpipe. He is also a nature
worshipper and does a sword dance on
the winter solstice to bring a better
corn crop.

He points out that folklore is based
on ‘‘tradition.” He believes different
types of folk culture should be main-
tained because ‘‘we are not a melting
pot.” :

Chase has been on tour since
February 15. He plans to settle in
Western North Garolina or Kentucky
and continue telling tales.

ff

THIS PICTURE is one of many award-winning, on-the-spot photos by ,#ill Billings.
