January 27, 1978

& a

Fund pro vides student outlet

at a glance

ROTC scholarships

The Davidson ROTC department has recently been given ‘‘a
great deal of latitude”’ in the execution of its program, to now
offer three year scholarships to non-ROTC freshmen as well as

Because of Davidson’s fine reputation in ROTC —it is
consistently ranked in the Eastern Seaboard (107 schools) top
ten for number of nationally scholarshipped cadets —any
number of students may apply for a three year scholarship, with
no obligation.

The scholarship pays all expenses except room and board,
plus gives $1,000 a year for spending allowance.

By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

Students who have inno-’

vative ideas may be able to
put them into practice by
using money in.a fund spe-

cifically designed for put pur-

pose.
An Activities Gréic Fund
was set up approximately six

_ years ago when ‘a Davidson

graduate, Tom Dovington,
donated $1000 to be used
solely for the purpose of
funding student activities that
are academically related but
not sponsored by an academic
department.

dent but the campus benefited
as well, said Smith.

The fund was also used for a
trip to San Francisco by two
Davidson coeds who attended
a Women’s Conference there.
Given a sum of about $100,
they participated in the con-

- ference and presented a report
-when they returned to
Davidson.

Not all requests are gran-
ted. Hutchings cited one
example in which a group of
people wanted some money to
put. on a play in the 900 Room.
They were denied the money
because the play was for

who at this time are: Samuel
D. Maloney, Professor of Reli-
gion, and Professor of Drama
Rupert T: Barber.

Although the Activities
Grant Fund can provide
money directly to students, it
is not being used to its
capacity, according to junior
SGA Senator Ann Burke. She
blamed this on the fact that
students do not know about
the fund. She added that
many people go to the Senate
looking for money that the
Activities Grant Fund could
provide.

Burke conceded that, ‘‘it is
a vicious circle’’--the students

; Projects funded in the past academic credit.
The scholarship is based on-academic and extracurricular have depleted the originalsum However, application is donot know about the fund so
record, and recommendation by a professor in the student’s to about $300, but none of the easy and is encouraged, said they don’t use it and the
major. money has been replaced. jyytchings, a student who Union Board finds it hard to
Davidson has an impressive percentage of students accepted President of the Union wants to apply for funds allot funds that aren’t being
for scholarship every year—in Spring, 1977, five of seven Board, Billy Hutchings, should present a proposal to used.
cadets who applied were selected, raising the school total to 44 expressed hope that both the the Board. The Board, orga- Smith summed up the
ROTC scholarship students. Union Board and the SGA nized approximately 10 years Activities Grant Fund, ‘‘So
For more information contact Captain Jerry Flannigan in could reallocate their funds ago, consists of the Union far, not much has been done
basement Belk or extension 167. : and designate a set amount to Board President, two Union Withit. It’s here, it’s practical,
go solely to the Activities Board Vice-Presidents, the it’s a great idea, and it has

Grant Board. Vice-President of the SGA, some real service possibili-
ean Rusk Scholars a eae we Soe
eae Donations will be accepted

: and these can be made directly
This spring term six students from the St. Pauls Schools of to the Activities Grant Fund,

England will study at.Davidson under the Dean Rusk Scholars _ according to C. Shaw Smith,

Program. This will be the second year of the program. Director of the Union. He also a er pro ES OO
The students will have completed the equivalent of high pointed out that once the

school and they hope to attend Oxford or Cambridge University Union Board gives money to

next fall. the Activity Grant Fund, it

They receive from pevidion scholarships of room and tyition.

This program honors Dean Rusk, a 1930 alumnus who was a
Rhodes Sekolar at Oxford and U.S. Secretary of State.

It is common for British students to seek new educational
experiences between secondary and higher education, such as
foreign travel or study.

The benefits of the program for Davidson include increasing
the number of international students here and establishing
contacts with Englishmen.

The St. Pauls Schocls began at St. Paul’s Cathedral in
London. They were founded by a medieval guild which became
the Mercer Company. They now have their own facilities in the
suburbs, one for each sex, which are well know in England.

Spring Externships

cannot take the money away
to use for other purposes.

The Activities Grant Fund
is primarily for student use.
“Originally it was set up to
encourage students to do
something that hadn’t been
done before,’’said Smith.

The fund is designed to
provide funds for a student to
organization to carry out an
innovative idea that will bene-
fit the campus generally.

For example, a Davidson
student had a friend who
wrote poetry. The Activities
Grant Board gave the student
$75 and -helped him with

By CLAY MACAULAY
Staff Writer

Director of Slater Food Ser-
vices Ron Scott and members
of the Student Government
Association (SGA) Subcom-
mittee on Food Quality met
this week to discuss the criti-
cisms that surfaced in the
subcommittee’s survey of Sla-
ter before Christmas.

The survey indicated that
the students’ major com-
plaints are over-crowded con-
ditions and too much starchy
food as well as the lack of fresh
fruit and green vegetables.

Scott pointed out that
changes have been made in the

will be taken if necessary.

Scott also offered some sug-
gestions to students that
would enable them to improve
the food system.

He said that students
should take only one serving
of each vegetable and dessert
while going through the line,
and come back to the line for
seconds in order to prevent
running out of dishes so
quickly and wasting uneaten
food.

When fresh fruit is served
he asked that students do not
carry it out of the dining hall.
A prevention of this practice
will enable Slater to serve

The Office for Experiential Programs has arranged for 45 advertising. This type of pro-
Davidson students to participate in one week Extern Programs ject heln-d not only the stu-
over spring break. :
~ The students will be involved in externships such as public

relations, banking, law, community development, environmen- r Attention

tal science and medicine. The various locations of the programs

; priaetys ‘ tion on Sunday evening, oneof term over $340 has bee
include Atlanta, Charlotte, Chapel Hill, Richmond, Washington ffesias : : ‘ :
D.C. and rufal ARBaTaehia. Whachive ‘nuinaaie giintalye the busiest nights of the week, donated to CROP, but the

Director of the Office of Experiential Programs Ken Wood students must have their | panne htc aa Pe Weebly bipsriecn' van of aa
says the purpose of the Extern Program i is ‘to help students get | I.D. card to use'the gym. | |. Het cite hess oT ane cups is beginning to increase
some career exposure.’ In order for anyone off |. wallelovarieuain © again,” he explained.

“Sometimes the students will take on a task,’’ he added, but | campus to use the gym 6 ha tila hae ai 6 Bes iics
he said more often they are just caneng with the professionals | (non-students, resident | sot inclu HAE bo ae nes Scott added that students
they are warking with. children, etc.), they I ee a Ss tas iE 8 fia: a pein take ee of the

Alumni irtd friends of the College sponsor the students | beclearedby Captain Jack- | |. Gerteal’ Whis HES camed earlier opening o Richards
involved in- tK6 program, now in its fourth year. ie Hughes of the Davidson the “Auber - Sa vate House on Sunday evenings,

Wood said that it still may be possible to arrange some more | College Police Department. | 11,5 and etn ays bese and Gata Batley Moug pee
placements ifit@yg,program, “‘but it’s getting late.” when it is open. The food is

of starchy foods proportional- prepared in the same kitchen,
] ee a
Middié East series

ly i a ie or Back and Bailey can actually serve
: : arge quantity of tres more people faster than Ric-
Cup conservation at | fruit has been served at most hards. .
International student Youssef Abagui is conducting a series
of discussions on the Middle East, beginning this Friday,
January 27, from 10:15 to 11 am in the Morrison Room. has netted $347 for

- meals and an even larger Criticisms will tantl
Slater Food Services | amount of special canned and arise from those aie ee

Abagui says he will try, through the use of filmstrips, j pas
discussions and question-answer periods, to offer the ‘‘other side CROP in the t

past several weeks to remedy more fresh fruit, he said.
these problems. He also encouraged stu-
1. The opening of Richards dents to continue to bring
at 4:30 instead of 5 has down cups at mealtime.
increased the hours of opera- ‘Since this project began last

fresh fruits are planned soon up” with Slater, said Scott,
for every meal. ee but improvements have been
Slater has also been criti- made. Improvements since

me for serving unbalanced Christmas by Slater such as

so tke cas chic lated meals. the ‘‘soup kettle’ and th
Aopsatlasle then tha Autor ince atid aie ‘eople | OW WEEKS Last tee ere runt stack of newspapers for stu
when offered “both sid f the sto "b tio a it is presen y being dents to read during b k-
hea sis 4 sieved - i onligpebiaagl shat Noed week alone $107 conducted by a regional Slater fast, have proven spacey

anerteen press gross reeen sits ug © employee. He added that after --Uther improvements are
Bisphion’ Cats Martin McCoy, Dennis McLaw- | _ was raised... the report is completed appro- planned for. the nears *-3,’

— 2, Care ol Gleg. | rt ; ie priate Me@éwsu:cs oh icra Scott conciuued. > “=

