clowns cut up < on campus

They call themselves Bounce the Clown, Flip, and Cyrus P. Koski III.

| Together they comprise the Loco-Motion Circus=a knockout blend of —

acrobatics and comedy. ;

They would rather be known as Bounce, Flip and Cyrus than ‘whatever their
real names are, but in any case they have been touring the country in two vans,
bringing their act to colleges, to the Mardi Gras, and to the summer Olympics in
Montreal two years ago, where they appeared on ABC’s “Wide World of
Sports.”

Armed with a few standard circus props: unicycles, juggling pins, hats, fake
moustaches, cigar boxes, and oversized hammer, the three entertainers never
fail to captivate audiences with their mime sketches, magic, acrobatics, and the
“Accordion Accompaniment to the Juggling of Flaming Torches, Balls, and_
Boxes.”

Bounce and Cyrus have been together for three years, ever since they met at
the University of Massachusetts, where they studied acrobatics and
gymnastics. Bounce says, ‘‘We just started juggling and the whole thing sort of
evolved.” (Come on, all you Davidson jugglers, we're waiting!)

Flip, the newest member of the group, is a stuntman and former Ringling
Bros. and Barnum and Bailey’s Circus Clown. His style is reminiscent of
Chaplin’s visual slapstick combined with acrobatic stunts.

Together the three present a varied demonstration of strength, agility, and
visual and verbal humor. They also can present educational programs and
workshops in the circus arts and acrobatics.

The Loco-Motion Circus will be on campus Friday, October 13, in front of
Chambers i in the afternoon and in.the 900. Room at 10:30 pm. (50 cents).

Liords will bring his “stringed creatures” to campus next Thursday.

llord of the strings featured

A one-man show with a cast of*nine hundred will be featured in Love
Auditorium next Thursday. Yes, that’s right, a cast of nine hundred. Daniel
Llords, solo marionettiste will bring LLORDS’ “INTERNATIONAL” (Music
and Marionettes for Adults) to campus as part of his fifth world-wide concert

ie nda is ¢ native-born American musician and actor who, according to

a press release, “discarding a juvenile cre BE
art, full of ingenious sound and scenic fury for adults. " °
Llords made his professional debutr at age seven playing a Mozart piano
concerto as guest soloist with a symphony. After careers in acting, singing ou
radio, and working as a theatrical designer, he concentrated on his first love, the
nine hundred marionettes that he has single-handedly made and which
constitute the “full strength of the company” of LLORDS’ “INTERNATION-

‘Now, as solo marionettist, he frequently appears as guest artist with leading
symphony orchestras, having ‘traded the piano keyboard for thé equally
demanding but highly unusual contzols of the marionette to interpret visually
great masterworks such as Stravinsky's ‘‘Firebird”’ and the “‘Capruccio
Espagnol” of Rimsky-Korsakov. In the hands of a virtuoso, the marionette
takes ite place on the concert stege as a new stringed instrument in company
with the more traditional cello, violin, or harp.

Daniel Llords will appear in Love Auditorium on November 19 at 8:15 pm.
Ticketa will go on sale Monday at the Union Desk; $1 for students, $3 for
non-students.

THESE MARIONETTES of Danie} Liords perform an elegant minuet. Mr.

|

OXF 'OOOr mx

VCOXD=© rO=-=

BOUNCE, FLIP and Cyrus will demonstrate their antics and lead a circus arts
workship on Friday the 13th.

campus activities

Thursday, October 12, 1978
' 9 pm. Davidson College Jazz Ensemble. 900 Room.
Friday, October 13, 1978
All Day. The Loco-Motion Circus. See story.
-8 & 10:30 pm. Pop Film. “‘Four Musketeers.” Love Aud. $1.25.

. Saturday, October 14, 1978

All Day. The Mean Green/Wildcat Scene. Carowinds.
10 pm. Jazz Ensemble. 900 Room.
Monday, October 16, 1978
Bakke Symposium. See Features story.
Tuesday, October 17, 1978
7 pm. Worship Service. Led by Dr. Rhodes and students. DCPC.
Wednesday, October 18, 1978
8 pm. Fine Film. “Black Orpheus.” Love Aud. $1.50
Thursday, October 19, 1978
All Day. Red Cross Blood Drive.
10:15 am. Sergei Chetverikov. “Soviet-American Relations.” Gallery.
1 pm. Sign-up Luncheon with Chetverikov.
8:15 pm. Liords’”‘ International. "Love Aud. $1 students, $3 non-students.

eThe Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity will be holding a 7-hour Disco Dance

Marathon to raise funds for the American Cancer Society. It will take place on

Saturday, October 14, from 6 pm to 1 am et ETC. Those interested in entering

the marathon should contact Joe Ferraro at (-1223) or at ETC for information

and sponsor sheets. Anyone may dance at the disco. Those, however, who are

not “contestants” will be requested to pay $1 to benefit the American Cancer

Society. Of course, there will be beer and good music.

¢Don’t forget Carowinds Day on Saturday. The mean Green/Wildcat Scene will
be the greatest Davidson triumph ever!

eFor those who entered the Y fund-raising popcorn guess contest: Exchange
student Tom Shelley won the keg party with Basement Cannon -

elf you have an anouncement of campus-wide interest, let The Back Page know.

Call Linda Hoopes at (-6763) or leave a note in The Back Page Editor’s box in,
The Davidsonian office.

October 14. Lehigh. Away.
Soccer
October 14. Catawba. Home. 2 pm.
October 19, The Citadel. Home. 3 pm.
Cross-Country Men

. October 14. Wake Forest, Ga. State, UNCC. Away.

October 18. Duke. Away.
October 14. ECU. Away.
October 16. Winthrop. Away.
October 18. Furman. Home. 4 pm.
Cross-Country Women
ween 14. Georgia State, Wake Forest. Away.
October 16. Wake Forest. Home.
Club Football ,
October 15. Robbins. ay:

