rr
jaltt
eveegh

Rees 1978

Two pe are within. the grasp of the
Professional Affairs Committee, which is

currently considering procedures for hi-
ring and evaluation of faculty. “When the

‘PAC presents final proposals, it can: 1)

insure an ongoing professional effort
towards building a diverse and highly-qua-
lified faculty at Davidson, and it can: 2)
reaffirm that-Davidson uphoids the princi-
ple of democratic. participation in the
‘of an academic institution.

The PAC should present a clear and
concise statement of Davidson's philoso-
phy.on faculty hiring and evaluation. Such
a statement will give order and purpose to
the process of faculty development. Then
the PAC should establish an administra-
tion/faculty/student Evaluation and Te-
nure Committee so that each segment of
the College community will have a role in
. putting that philosophy of faculty develop-
ment into action.

To make this statement of philosophy

and set up such a Committee, the PAC ©

need only: combine the best of all the
proposals it is presently considering.
Since Academic Vice President Zimmer-
mann last spring presented to the PAC his
first draft of the proposed Code for Faculty
Evaluation, the administration has worked
‘in good faith with the PAC to establish
evaluation guidelines acceptable to all.
Worrisome still in. the recently-released
third draft.of the Code is the stipulation
that both the President and Vice Presi-
dent, whilednterviewing a prospective
teacher, should “explore further the .rela-
tionship between the candidate’s religious
position and personal and career aspira-
tions and the College’s objectives as set

forth in the Statement of Purpose and me :

Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures.”
This vaguely-defined cexpiaration®
Should be replaced with the clear and
simple statements (from the Trustee
by-laws) that a Davidson professor must:
a) work “with respect for the Christian
tradition even if he cannot cortscientiously
join it,” and b) live “in harmony with the

in a ms

purpose of the College as set forth in the
Davidson constitution.”

Even with this improvement, however,
Zimmermann’s Code is inadequate insu-
rance of professional hiring practices and
thorough evaluation of faculty, for the
Code consolidates primary responsibility

‘for all these matters in the hands of the .

administration. :
Enter the Evaluation and Tenure Com-.

~ mittee. In evaluation and hiring of faculty,

three heads are decidedly better than one.

The administration guides the school and ©

must necessarily influence personnel de-

_Cisions, but teaching, our main business

at Davidson, is done by professors for
students, and both of these groups should
bear responsibility in personnel decisions.

A Tenure Committee as proposed this .

week by the SGA brings the administra-
tion, faculty, and students together to
make those decisions. Faculty hiring and
evaluation is a difficult matter, and
conflict between the parties involved is
inevitable. But when all parties resolve
conflicts together, involvement and com-
mitment result. Involvement and commit-
ment of all members of the College
community is essential of Davidson
aspires to excellence.

Recommendations to the PAC: .

1) Delete from Zimmermann’s Code all
sections that consolidate evaluation in the
hands of the administration, leaving
behind what is, in essence, Davidson’s

philosophy of faculty hiring and develop- ©

ment. Touch up that philosophy, removing
all hints that Davidson practices reli-
gious-based exclusionism in hiring.

2) Recommend an Evaluation and
Tenure Committee to uphold this philoso-
phy and make hiring and evaluation
decisions. Consider carefully the SGA’s
proposed Committee, for it takes particu-

’ lar care to insure that each segment of the

community—administration, faculty, and
students—plays an active role in this

important area of College governance.
—Philip Duncan

Responsible Interpretation

The Trustees and. administration of
Davidson College have ignored. and a-
bused the Davidson Col Constitution,

week when students at WDAV and. the
administration reached a total impasse in

and today that document stands in low _ polic

esteem, little more than a worthless piece
of paper.
interpretation of the

Any responsible
Constitution affirms that. radio station

. The President and Vice President, while interviewing a
ive teacher, should ‘explore further, the relationship
between the candidate's religious position and personal and
career aspirations and the College's objectives as set forth in the
Statement of Purpose and this Code of Faculty Evaluation

| Letter tothe Editor

Sound the alarm!

To the Editor:
I am appalled. I have just
picked up this week’s Davidso-

nian and read the latest about

the ‘raging battle’ for control
of WDAV. The shocking head-
line’ reads “College closes
WDAV’s box.”’

Where have our rights gone?
Before you know it, the college
will close all our boxes and read
our mail before we get it. Next
they will censor outgoing let-
ters, and then the inevitable will
happen .-- hidden: microphones
and cameras in our rooms!.

This is one more example of
what the Davidsonian terms
“creeping professionalism.” It
is creeping into our student
activities and insidiously des-
troying our freedom and rights!

It is obvious to anyone that

the “‘bungling’’ management of
WDAV will improve only if
control is returned to students
and the creeping professionals

are eliminated. The students in
charge should also be careful
not to get “chummy” with the
administration.

It is equally obvious that no
one enjoys classical music, and
if one did, there are hundreds of
area stations that play classical
music. Popular music, however,
is a different matter. You just
can’t find rock on area stations,
except perhaps on Sunday mor-
nings.

Of course WDAV will be of
greatest benefit to students if
run as a student activity,
regardless of the revenue a
public service oriented college
station could generate. °

‘There is hope. The SGA is
considering a resolution to res-
tore WDAV’s box. Thank good-
ness they are finally getting
down to important busi-
ness,

R. Russell Martin '79
Davidson College

Executive Editors
PAMELA CAMERRA LYMAN A. COLLINS, II

CHARLES ERWIN MERIDETH
DENNIS DURDEN BARRY SACHTJEN
Copy Editer ;
pan siping, of
Circedation Manage:

Cabinet, Spots the Beit “Salen

El ert
8 Memon

