February 3, 1978 —

i tines a, Sg

Opinion

By BOB MORRISON
Guest Columnist
Senior Bob Morrison has lived in
Panama for nine years. This is the
first ina series about the negotiations
concerning the Panama Canal Treaty.

On September 7, 1977, President
Carter and Panamanian Chief of
Government Omar Torrijos signed
two new Panama Canal treaties which
would go into effect after ratification
by both countries. The agreement on
the Canal would provide a new basis
for cooperation between the United
States and Panama in the operation
and defense of the Panama Canal.
This agreement would replace the
U.S.-Panama Treaty of 1903, which
has governed Canal operations since
the waterway's construction, and
subsequent amendments. Under the
canal treaty, the United States would
have operating control and the right
to defend the Canal until December
31, 1999, after which Panama would
assume control. If the treaty goes into
effect, Panama would assume general
territorial jurisdiction over the pre-
sent Canal Zone, use portions of the
area not needed for operation and
defense of the Canal, and receive an
estimated $50 to $70 million per year
from Canal toll revenues. In addition,
the United States has pledges $325
million in economic and military
grants to Panama. Under a seperate

neutrality treaty, the United States _

would have the right to assure the
neutrality of the Canal from any
threat for an indefinite period. That is
a very brief summary of the new
treaties.

Allow me to provide the historical
background surrounding the Canal.
The United States sought, at the turn
of the century, to obtain the exclusive
right to construct a canal across the
isthmus of Panama. By affording a
short-cut route between the Atlantic
and Pacific Oceans, such a canal was
viewed as a strategic and commercial
asset of great importance, particular-
ly after the U.S. extended from shore
to shore, and was .beginning to
emerge as a rising world power.

While the isthmus was still a part
of Columbia, the United States
concluded the Hay-Herran Treaty
with Columbia in January 1903. The
treaty granted the United States a
100-year lease, renewable at the sole
option of the United States, on a zone
of land 10 kilometers wide, for an
initial payment of $10 million and an
annuity of $250,000, wherein the
United States was given the exclusive
right to construct, maintain, operate,
and protect a canal across the
isthmus. After debate, the Columbian
Senate unamimously rejected the
treaty, arguing that it posed a threat
to Columbian sovereignty while offer-
ing inadequate compensation.

Shortly thereafter the Panamani-
ans, many: of whom had sought
senaration from, Columbia‘ pro-
claimed their independence on No-

vember 3, 1903, with American

one ison examin

support. United States naval forces
were on hand to prevent the landing
of Columbian troops to put down the
rebellion, and within three days the
United States recognized the new
Republic of Panama.

Less than two weeks later, Ameri-
can and Panamanian representatives,
Secretary of State Hay for the United
States; Bunau-Varilla, the French
chief engineer of the French Canal
Company, for Panama, signed the
Hay-Bunau-Varilla Treaty of Novem-
ber 18, 1903, based substantially ‘on

the treaty previously refected by.

Columbia. The 1903 treaty with
Panama granted to the United States:
‘‘in perpetuity’ the ‘‘use, occupation
and control” of a ten mile wide zone of
land across the isthmus for the
construction, operation, and defense
of a ship canal (Art. II). And, ‘‘all the
rights, power and authority within
the zone...which the United States
would possess and exercise if it were
the sovereign of the territory...to the
entire exclusion of the exercise by the
Republic of Panama of any such
sovereign rights power of authority”
(Art. III). In return, Panama was
provided an initial compensation of
$10 million and a yearly annuity of
$250,000 (which has subsequently
increased to $2.3 million) after the
completion of the canal.

Despite some revisions in 1936 and
1955, the 1903 treaty has been and
remains a source of friction and
conflict between the United States
and Panama. The seriousness of the
situation led the United States and
Panama. in 1964 to agree to begin
negotiations on a new treaty, follow-
ing the anti-American riots which
took place in Panama leaving four
Americans and 19 Panamanians dead.
These negotiations resulted in draft
treaties that were not acted upon
by either country. In August 1970,
the government of General Omar
Torrijos, in power as a result of a
military coup in October 1968, for-
mally rejected the draft treaties, while
indicating a willingness to pursue
negotiations increasingly came to be
presented abroad as a test case of
U.S. policy toward Latin America
and the Third World, especially after
Panama took its case to the U.N.
Security Council in 1973. The present
series began in 1973 with the appoint-
ment of Ambassador Bunker as Chief
Negotiator, preparing the way for
former Secretary of State Kissinger’s
visit to Panama in February 1974 to
sigh a statement of agreed principles.
President Carter continued the nego-
tiations, appointing Ambassador Sol
Linowitz to serve as co-negotiator
with Ambassador Bunker. Agree-
ment in principle on two new treaties
was announced on August 10 and the
treaties were signed on September 7
in Washington.

Since the signing of these new
treaties there has been a flurry of
activity across our nation as propo-
nents and opponents gather forces for
the impending battle over ratification
in the Senate this month. The White
House, in conjunction with the State
Department, has intensified its effort

. to brief the American public, particu-

larly local politicians and key busi-
ness executives. Proponents for the
treaty were given their opportunity to
testify before the Committee on
Foreign Relations, once in October
anu again this past January. Unived
States negotiations have made con:
tinual efforts to clarify the language

ee ee ee

Oar SOARES mare
~ "5 opt oars oa

7

and implications of the treaties.

Two key Senate leaders, Byrd and
Baker, traveled to Panama the first of
this year to assess the situation nrst
hand. Senate majority leader Byrd
has already expressed his support of
the treaties, while minority leader
Baker consented to support them if
two amendments were made to the
present treaties. These are neutrality
clause to the Panama Canal Treaty
itself;and the attachment of a ‘“‘front
of the line’’ clause for priority of
passage for American warships in an
emergency situation.

On the other side of the issue,
opponents have continued to assault
the treaties since their signing by
President Carter by running ads in
papers, mailing out letters, and last
month, sending a “Truth Squad,”’
headed by Senators Helms and Thur-
mond, to traverse the country pre-
senting another perspective on these
treaties. In addition, Senator Allen is
prepared to flood the Senate with
amendment, particularly involving

the legality of the present treaty and

negotiations.

Now the treaties are only weeks
away from possible ratification, and
new events are surtacing constantly.
Last Friday the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee recommended adop-
tion of_a new article for the treaty
(this article being essentially Baker's
second proposal amendment). How-
ever, Monday the committee

Opinion

— ae treatics-

scrapped their previous recommenda-
tion because it would require another
plebiscite vote in Panama. The cur-
rent recommendation from the com-
mittee is to insert this material into
two existing articles pertaining to the
neutrality of the canal.

Another surprise came from Pana-
ma this past week. Panamanian Chief
of Government Omar Torrijos
pledged to step down from power and
turn his country over to civilian
authority. This transition could be
made as early as August, when the
present Panamanian constitution ex-
pires. This statement from Torrijos
and the Foreign Relation Committe’s
recommendation will stir up addition-
al debate in the Senate. Senator Byrd
believes the treaty will be up for
debate next week.

I would like to present a brief, and
obviously not exhaustive, history of
the negotiations which have led to the
present treaties. In future issues of
The Davidsonian I will be comment-
ing more specifically on the negotia-
tions and the treaties themselves.

“Colleges have their indispensable
office—to teach elements. But they
can only highly serve us when they
aim not to drill, but to create; when
they gather from far every ray of
various genius to their hospitable
halls, and by the concentrated fires,
set the hearts of their youth on flame.

—Emerson in The American Scholar

Searching for identity

By SAM WEIR
Guest Columnist
[First in a series] _

Before Christmas I raised the
question of Davidson's identity. In
the next few weeks I hope that we can
all attempt to answer that question.
This week we will look at the question
of a “‘Christian”’ college in general. In
the following weeks ‘‘Liberal Arts,”’
“Christian Liberal Arts Colleges,’
and ‘‘Davidson” will be dealt with. I
sincerely hope to provoke a healthy
dialogue among different gaembers of
our community and encourage re-
sponse, particularly in the form of
letters to the Editor and other
columns in The Davidsonian.

Let us begin our investigation of a
“Christian’”’ institution by trying to
come to grips with the question
‘‘What is a Christian?’’ Webster’s
defines Christian as an ‘‘adherent to
the religion derived from Jesus
Christ, based on the Bible as sacred
scripture, and professed by Eastern,
Roman Catholic, and Protestant bo-
dies.’’ C.S. Lewis (Mere Christianity,
p. 11) adds, ‘“‘The name Christians
was first given at Antioch (Acts
11:26) to ‘the disciples,’ te-those who

acceptéa inc soaching of the ap-

ostles.’’ Both of these statements

rightfully emphasize the doctrinal
aspects of being Christian. I would
add that a Christian consistently
attempts to apply ‘‘the teaching of
the apostles'’ to his life. Christians
are people who, because of what they

believe, seek to live Godly lives
through the grace of Jesus and in the

power of the Holy Spirit.

How then can a college be ‘‘Christ-
ian?’’ It is people who are Christians,
not colleges. At the same time, any
college reflects the beliefs of its
administrators, professors, and _ stu-
dents in its corporate personality. The
fundamental sense in which any
institution may be Christian lies in
this fact. A Christian college consists,
therefore, of any institution withing
which Christians are living as salt and
light (Matthew 5:13-16) in and
through the community they are a
part of. To act as salt and light in a
college includes loving your
colleagues with the quality of love
Jesus had for his disciples (John
13:34-35). That quality of love in-
fluences all aspects of one’s character
and revolutionizes one’s _ re-
lationships. Working through a col-
lege involves forming and using the
structure and policies of the college to
obey Jesus.

A Christian college, then, is a
studying-learning community whose
members struggle to live Godly lives
and to reflect the apostles’ teaching
not only in their own personalities but
also in every aspect of the college's
personality, including the content and
structure of the academic experience, —
the admissions and financial aid,
policies #th@wsecis! otmaanbere, and —
sho in-clvernent of the college-in the.
life of the community around it.
