The Davidsonian

October 27, 1978

WRT.

[gousece

—S.._
© LS Ait om

-”
a

aa

Three student groups push towards elections

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

For a small group of David-
son students, politics means
more than Student Government
Association elections. In fact,
campus politics are of little or
no concern to these people.

As November 7 draws near,
the Young Democrats, Young
Republicans, and Young Liber-

_tarian Alliance are concentra-
ting their political efforts on

Though many of these stu-
dents are not North Carolina
citiZens and therefore will not
cast North Carolina ballots,

they enjoy partisan politics, —
have party loyalities and sup-

port their respective party's
candidates within this state

— Support for North Carolina °
candidates by out of state
citizens is dramatized in the

race for United States Senator.
Incumbent Senator Jesse
Helms, a conservative Republi-

is under heavy fire from the
Young Democrats, while recei-
ving moderate support from the
Young Republicans.

Young Democrats president
Maria Patterson reports that
this time a year ago, her
organization was divided in its
support for the three major
party candidates; some mem-
bers supported McNeil Smith,
white others favored Luther
Hodges and John Ingram.

conservative to the more libe-
ral.’’ .

Aside from putting, up pos-
; ters, telephoning registered vo-

For this reason, the organiza- ters, and attending rallies, the
tion’s support for Helms is two groups are also actively
varied. They feel certain that involved in voter registration
Helm’s statewide support, in and making available absentee
addition to his five million ballots.
dollar campaign, will defeat
John Ingram, who has only two
hundred thousand dollars in
contributions.

A third political organization
of campus that is not widely
known nationally is the Young
Libertarian Alliance. The

The seat of U.S. Representa. Young Libertarians are more
tive Jim Martin, a Republican concerned with public forums
who once served on fhe David- and debate than the upcoming

1978 elections. can with a conservative record, When Ingram won in the gon faculty, is also in question. election.
— primary, the group shifted its One Young Democrat charges

attention to thé party’s candi- that “the ingenuity of Jim President Eugene Heath cha-

date. Some members like Chuck .° Martin te utilize his Davidson  @tetizes his organization as

Gaddy, who terms himself “a education for conservative po. | 9" alternative to the politics as

hard-core Democrat,” left the pulism’ is athreat to challenger “98! policies of the Democrats

organization. Patterson said Charles Maxwell, a Democrat. 94 Republicans. The Alliance

that they “support Ingram to views its primary role as that of

the extent that he is « Demo- ~~ While some of the Young pdvcating students towards “li--
crat, and we're just against Republicans at Davidson are

orders

892-8686,

Mon.-Wed. 11-3, 5-8
‘Thurs.-Sat. 11-3, 5-12
Sun. 12-3; 5-10

Happy Hours:

8:30-10 PM
“Best food east of Tulsa”

Thurs & Fri nights

Helms.”

gram brought some members
into the Ingrem camp. Patter-
gon, a one time Smith suppor-
ter, claime that the current
Ingram organization receives
its greatest strength from for-

mer Smith supporters.

To eombat the Young Demo-
crat’s support of Ingram, the
Young Repbulicans pose only a
moderate threat. Young Repu-
blicans president Sybil Jones,
says that the 25 members of her
organization have political ideo-

logies “ranging from the ultra said.

too liberal to support the con- —
eervative Martin, the majority Heath quotes Karl Hess in

of the members have jumpedon saying, “Libertarianism is the
the Martin bandwagon. The view that each man is the

fact that Maxwell has two absdiyte owner of his life, to use
convictions for driving under, and of it as he sees fit;
the influence of alcohol Goes not —_and that respect for every other
deter the Young Democrats. man’s similar and equal owner-

ship of life is the ethical basis of

Patterson was quick to ad-
mit, however, that trips to
' to telephone potential

supporters have yiel-
ded little “name recognition.”

a human and ethical society.”

Although opposed to any

form of human suffering, howe-

"You wouldn't believe how ‘~~ slight. ore soonaors

many people we called have fick Pasotto for the U.S.
never heard of him,” Patterson  yrous, of Representatives of the
