as 6 Eee tay ee

The Davidsonian

April 14, 1978

Colorful croquet team frolics across green

By JOHN DAVIS
and ~.
BRUCE HOLLIDAY
, Staff Writers

Years f¥om now, when the fond
memories ,of the parties, dances and
parting events of Spring Frolics week-
end have jong since faded, the vivid
recollection of the excitement, color,
and pageantry of the First Annual
Davidson College Croquet Tournament
will linger on. The culmination of
several minutes planning by Union
Games Committee chairman Minor
Sinclair, the match was one of those
rare magical moments in sports un-
questinably destined for immortality.

At 2:00 pm the five finalists gathered
on the faultlessly manicured green in
front of Chambers. Each had won his
qualifying round the day before. Sev-
eral of the more fashionable contes-
tants, well-versed in the etiquette of
croquet appeared in traditional attire.

‘Bruce Holliday, an experienced golf-
er and the pre-match favorite, arrived
dressed in a vintage 1920's golf cap,
dress white shirt, tie, tennis shorts,
brilliant knee-length yellow stockings,
and white suede shoes. Dark horse
Greg Zeph, appearing in tweed coat,
knickers, and red suspenders, drew
numerous whispers from the gallery.

Ollie Keen, a Rusk scholar and

widely feared opponent because of his
rumored experience on the London
Circuit, was unrecognizable in blue
jeans and mirror shades. Although
barefoot, Keen, carried a conspicuous
pair of black high-top sneakers, which,
as he explained in an ominous tone
were reserved for ‘‘knocking away”’
opponents.

Rounding out the field were upstart
freshmen Peter Jordan and John
Davis, who were evidently little con-
cerned with decorum as they una-
bashedly attended in T-shirts and cut-

_ Offs.

Tournament official Sinclair led a
brief conference on the regulations
governing play. Sinclair is, not coinci-
dentally, the author of the definitive
handbook of croquet rules used in the
qualifying rounds. Containing four or
five obscure directives, the spirit of the
document is summed up in the final
line, ‘‘Bluff all other rules.”’

The match commenced and Holliday
immediately took command by blazing
through the first three wickets on his
initial turn. Keen, using his curious
between the legs stroke, was solidly in
second, as the less experienced players
floundered in the rear.

Then Davis bumped Keen with an
extraordinary and uncharacteristically
accurate shot, and proceeded to knock

They said
tuberculosis
was hopeless.

They said polio

the Britisher off the green and on to the
pavement; thée*ball-eventually ‘coming
to rest underneath a small wrought-
iron adjacent to the Snack Bar.

From this point, Keen never again
threatened the leaders, as he contin-
ually found himself hitting great
recovery shots from off the green only
to be knocked away again in the
ensuing round.

By 2:30, a small but vocal gallery
had assembled and lent support to
Holliday as he methodically worked his
way through the course. Although one
foursome rapidly became bored and
formed an irreverent bridge game in the
rough near the middle stake, a loyal
band consisting of students, towns-
people, neighborhood children and a
dog provided polite pitter-patter golf
applause, appropriate ‘‘oohs’’ and
‘‘aahs,’’ and television commentary
in whispered English accents as Holli-
day advanced.

The crowd also acted in an advisory
capacity helping with mallet and shot
selection and continually correcting
players when.they inadvertantly used
the word ‘‘wickets’’ in place of the
correct term ‘‘hoops.”’

Greg Zeph, finding himself 8 wickets
behind, made a decision which was to
have aprofoundeffect on the outcome of
the tournament: he knocked his ball to
the far end of the course and waited for
Holliday. Realizing that he had no
chance to overtake the leader, Zeph
was instead hoping to knock Holliday’s
ball when he came around on the last
leg, thereby preventing an uncontested
win.

The game suddenly grew tense as
Holliday cautiously approached the
final stake, not wanting to come within

‘knocking range of Zeph. Davis, several
wickets behind Holliday, soon came up
and added to the milieu around the last
two hoops.

Then Ollie made the shot of the
match. Thirty yards away at the other
end of the course (having just returned
to the green from another knocking
away,) the Englishman meticulously

lined up a long shot and whacked.
The ball sped two-thirds the length

sof the green, narrowly rolled between

Zeph and Davis, and barely nicked
Holliday’s as it came to rest:'l'he crowd
exploded into incredulous applause as
Ollie strode up, carefully laced on his
‘‘knocking”’ shoes, set up the shot, and
sent Holliday’s ball halfway to the
infirmary.

Davis now had an opportunity to win
it all, but blew the second hoop and
was knocked into the corner by a
vengeful Keen on the next round.

Meanwhile, Peter Jordan had been
patiently plugging along, and suddenly '
was in good position to get to the
stake. He maneuvered through both
hoops but then missed a short putt to
the stake. Zeph managed to knock him
further away, and both Holliday and
Davis returned to the vicinity of the
stake.

Jordan, faced with a crucial light
foot shot, took careful aim as the crowd
hushed for what may have been the
first time of the afternoon. The ball hit
the stake with an emphatic ‘‘thock’’!

Eventually the applause died down,
and Sinclair presented the awards in
the post-match ceremony. Champion
Jordan was given a dinner for two at a
Mooresville restaurant, and runner-up
Holliday was bequeathed an attractive
toiletry kit complete with perfume,
bath silk, fluffy towel and convenient
carrying handle.

Sinclair was jubilant after all was
over. Calling the affair an ‘astounding
success’’, his only major disappoint-
ment was that “they left us off the
Spring Frolics T-shirts. I won’t stand
for that sort of thing next year.”’

Passionately interested in croquet,
Sinclair fully intends to make the
tournament an annual event, although
next year ‘‘proper attire will be
mandatory.”’

Perhaps now, Davidson College's
small niche in history has been firml
secured by those hardy souls who took
mallet in hand and pursued their fate
upon the playing fields of Chambers.

was hopeless.

They said
smallpox
was hopeless.

Cajan music
hits campus

By MARGARET JACKSON
Staff Writer

What exactly classifies Southern folk
music? Is it the sound of Nashville? Of
Cajan Louisiana? Of the Black fife of
North Mississippi or the delta blues of
Tennessee?

This year, the 13th annual Southern
Folk Festival and the 12th Annual
Oldtime Mountain Music Show are
joining together on a tour which
combines all of these sounds and many -
more.

Cancer is only
a disease.

Even when most people considered the struggle against The combined group, called the
polio hopeless, the people who worked in medical research Southern Grassroots Music Tour, will
believed they would someday find the answer. be featured in the 900 Room at 9:30 pm

Che same was true for tuberculesis. Ard for smallpox. on Saturday, April 15. Admission will
Phe same is true for cancer now.™ pe ot cents, Ube eneemble:consiste )

ie : the Rising Star Fife and

We-know because we hear from people doing medical ot eum Band,
Re aig Sy a i i +I 5 ik Hazel Dickens, Robert Garrett, Beau-

SC% ADOravtories allover the country. *y talk h i j i
ie P the country ney Talk to us soleil Cajun Band, and Anne Romaine.
yecause they all need support. They are all excited because

The Rising Star Fife and Drum
Band, consisting of a fife and three
drums, represents the best in music
from north Mississippi.

Dickens specializes in mountain mu-
sic and composes many songs concern-
ing women. Robert Garrett is a veteran

American Cancer Society , Black blues singer and talented musi-

We want to cure cancer in your lifetime. cian.
A Cajun fiddle, accordion, and guitar

they all think they're on the right track. And that the work
they’re doing will unlock a secret and lead to a solution for
cancer. And you know what?

At least one of them is right. But which one? We must
support them all.

are the instruments featured by the
Beausoleil Cajun Band, a group from
Louisiana. A North Carolina country
singer, Anne Romaine, will serve as
emcee.

This collection of “down-home” mu-
sicians. will perform separately and
occasionally together, to create a
lively, informal jam session.

