October 27, 1978

The. Davidsonian

ab

If it's good enough for William

Editor's note: When it comes to
student journalism, Williams College
in Massachusetts and Davidson are a
good deal alike.

In this column, Wiliams Record
[Williams’ student newspaper] staffer
Peter Rintels considers: The indepen-
dence of the college newspaper, a
sensational vs. responsible newspaper,
holding,, student and college officials
accountable for their action, non-pro-
fessional standards, etc.

A ways into, the column Rintels
discusses a ‘‘library incident’’ that
“became the focus of a storm of campus
debate.’’ He says this incident pointed
out the college’s ‘‘secrecy rules.’’
You’re at Davidson, so substitute “‘the
WDAV controversy.” for “‘library inci-
dent*’ and read on. You'll catch Rintels’
point.

_ THE WILLIAMS RECORD
By PETER RINTELS
All newspapers aiming at some
measure of respectability have some-
thing of a dual relationship to the
organizations that they cover.

On the one hand, they must be close
enough to their subject to report. on
them accurately and in depth; on the
other hand they must be “distant”
enough to insure that their objectivity
is not marred.

The ideal newspaper is, as the
Hindus like to say, ‘‘in the world, but
notofthe world.” —_.

For a college newspaper such as the
Record, distance presents a very per-
plexing problem. The question basical-
ly is whether the emphasis in the
phrase ‘‘college newspaper” should be
on college or on newspaper.

Special Relationship

The paper has a special relationship
to the campus because it is funded by
students and staffed by students. It is
not independent by any stretch of the
imagination, but if it is to be a truly
legitimate news organization it must
act independent.

There is a difficult paradox here that
causes Record editors and writers to
have more than the usual journalistic
quota of soul-searching sessions in
which they try to determine the paper’s
various responsibilities and liabilities
on sensitive stories. Cases which would
be crystal clear for the New York Times
and the Washington Post are not
always crystal clear for the Record.

As self-appointed enfant terrible of
student journalism here, I have inter-
preted, with modest concessions, press
questions as I expected the New York
Times would, anyway. This means that
the paper will not always be covering
what the Administration or the stu-
dents will necessarily find convenient,
but it will establish its legitimacy. as a
news organization to the greatest
extent possible given the conditions
under which it operates.

College ‘‘newspaper”’

I feel strongly that the.emphasis in.

college newspaper should be on news-
paper, not on college. In saying this, I
Ral kg aioe oy arg

press. Experience has taught me

nts yma can be insufferable.
when they start waving around the
amendment.

first me

At Williams, for newspapermen sim-
ply to. tout freedom of the press as a
licence to print anything they want. is

too facile a way of looking at.the whole

issue.’ If a budding Rupert. Murdoch
takes control of the Record and begins
news about the sex lives of

the College Council members across the

front page, the CC, acting as agents for.

the students, should demand a change
in editorship.

The CC has the power to do this, too.
Since“it funds the paper, it has the
option of withholding funding until the
offending editor is removed and a more
agreeable one put in his place. It goes
without saying, I hope, that the. CC
should never use this power except
under the most extraordinary of cir-
cumstances, but I think it is important
to note that the power exists. The
paper staff is, and should be, account-
able to the college.

A paper based on a New York Times
model, however, should never run into
such problems because the New York
Times does not sensationalize. It is a
responsible newspaper which is very
self-conscious about maintaining its
reputation of accuracy and ethical
journalistic conduct. What it prints in
its news columns, it prints because it

From the Editor

Davidsonian criticisms

By PHILIP DUNCAN
Editor

We're seven weeks through fall term, .

and term papers and final exams are

the main course of. conversation. But

some people are still talking about The
Davidsonian. This week I tuned my ear
to catch some criticiams; they follow

below, along with my responses.

Duncan

 Q. Most students at Davidson seem to
be relatively happy with the place, but
you people. at The Davidsonian are
always griping, complaining, and bel-
lyaching about something. Why don’t
you admit that the Trustees, Spencer,
and the administration know. what
they're doing and stop trying to drum
up controversies?

A. Since its very. beginnings, The
Davidsonian has wrestled with this

question. I quote from the lead
ecient] Bon iepeidoosion'e inaugu-

ral edition—April 1,.1914: .- .

“But, the. newspaper should not
merely report events, . . the paper must
foley. blindly. It should lead, not

t_ should mold, not: be, molded
mh Sway, of campus opinion, It

la

obstruction and clears the way for more

d stand for. cA. best. ome in.
- gi goally.& firm bat kind crltisiern,
is however, often removes an -

believes that the long term best
interest of its readers -- or in broader
terms, society -- - lies in ite doing 80.

' The. Times, like any responsible
newspaper, does not see its. first
amendment protection as a license to
smear, sensationalize, or use under-
handed tricks to get information.
Rather, it uses those protections to
uphold the highest standards of jour-
nalism, which often means exposing to
public view the seamier aspects of

events, aspects that those involved |

would rather see concealed.
First amendment banter

And here, if you will forgive me, is
where I start waving the first amend-
ment around for real. The’framers of
the constitution considered the New
York Times style journalism so impor-
tant to the health of the country that,
in drawing up the Bill of Rights, they

concerted and faithful effort.”
A half-century later, the newspaper

editorialized: ‘‘The Davidsonian.is .

often critical, and that is its job. For as
long as there is a Davidson College,
there will be things wrong with it. And
as long as there are things wrong with
it, The Davidsonian will be the
80. To do anything less would consti-
tute treason to the principles of good
journalism and do a disservice to
Davidson College.”

The Trustees, Spencer, and admini-
stration generally do know what they
are doing. But they are human and are
not immune from occasional mistakes
and errors in judgment. There are
“things wrong”’ at Davidson and The
Davidsonian will continue to criticize.
Not malicious criticism which seeks to
destroy, rather ‘‘a firm but kind
criticism which. . . removes an obstruc-
tion and clears the way for faithful
effort.”

Q. Isn’t it true that the student staff of
The Davidsonian is a small, closed
group of people who have similar ideas
about a lot of things? Why don’t you
recruit more people in order to broaden
your perspective?

A. 30 students work each week in the

various phases of the newspaper’s
operation (from assignment and editing
articles to layout to distribution of the
final product). 25 more write regularly,
and over a ten-week term 25-35. others
work occasionally in some capacity for

We count in our number. indepen-
dents and members of almost every
eating house and fraternity at. David.
son. One-third of the staff is female,
nearly one-fourth are freshmen. In such
a large group, there is seldom e staff
concensus that you imply,

At: the beginning of this year. we
conducted. an intensive and. very suc-
cessful recruiting campaign; many

. freshmen. and , several,

joined our ranks. Since. that. time,
we've concentrated on. working. with
and trainig those newcomers, but we

_are always looking for more help; now, .

if fact, the production, advertising, and
special.

assignments departments. are.
understaffed. Anyone interested in
working with us should come a by the

- office.in the Union...

seus sas tase la pocbesaahes tc tae

, right up there. in the first amendment.

It is my firm belief that, Williams has
os Sau det fe eucomtien t
kind of journalism as does
whole... In. many ways, E :
microcosm. of that. society. We. oat
public officials, (CC officers, house
officers and in a loose way the faculty
and administration) who spend public
funds (the student activities tax, house
dues and, again in a loose way, tuition)
and there can, I think, be no. question
about. the necessity of holding these ,
officials accountable for their handling
of these funds,:and. more generally, for
all of their public acts. ;

Insuring such jaccountability is. the
function. of newspaper inthe. “real” —
world, and I think it is a function that,
the Record should be encouraged to
perform here as well. ;

In epienlentieae osbiunns-saiektion
people, I have commonly met with two
replies. to which I would. ube to
respond... __

Not the ‘New York Times”

First is that “The Record is not the
New York Times.” This’ is certainly
true. I see’ three major: dubeeancee!""}
scope, 2) experience of writers and
editors and 3)‘ the financial and staff
relationship of the paper to the College,
ie. the “distance” Erna —
toearlier, ©

None of these, I think, anne the
Times an impréper model for the
Record.

The scope difference is a: souey
obvious one—The Record is’ dealing
with a much smaller community , but as
I maintained earlier, this community is
a microcosm of the larger one covered
by the Times'in many key respects,
The basic relationship of the two
papers to their respective arenas:
should, I think, be the same.

The experience question addresses .a
more serious difficulty, whichis that
the Record is not composed of a staff of
professional journalists. Most of the
paper staff worked on high school
newspapers and possibly a couple have
worked on local papers at various
times, but this is nothing compared to
the kind of training and experiencé that
most professional journalists have,
especially of New York Times caliber.

But is to say that we are not profes-
sionals to say that we should not aim
for- professional standards? If not, for
what other.standards should we aim?
And if so, should we not aim for the
highest standards in the newspaper
business, those of a paper like the

_ Times? | think so.

Ths distance problem is one that is
inherent in the way the paper is set.up,
but if the paper is to be a truly .
legitimate news organization, it should
act as if distance were not.a problem. —
In one key respect, The Record, along =
with WCFM’s news organization, al-

