iG LAAVALOU II

Faculty Guest Column

‘We’ve met the enemy and they is us’

By ERNEST F. PATTERSON
Professor of Economics

In recent years any ordinary speaker
can gain the plaudits of any audience
by blaming “the government”. for any
and all ills of the body politic, and
anyone can, and does, get elected to
public office solely on his promise to
“‘reform’’ the government.

These results are possible apart from
the people, or as a collection of
politicians and bureaucrats, who, on
their own initiative, conceive and
institute schemes and laws that inter-
fere with the beneficent ends of ‘‘free
private enterprise,’ or thrust monopo-
ly, or some other special privilege, on
unwilling and resisting citizens.

This view is almost universal, but is
nowhere more clearly and openly
stated, or more completely accepted
and consistently followed, than among
the persons who wrote the truly
incredible, The Incredible Bread Ma-
chine. In this book everything ‘‘good”’
in United States history is accom-
plished by “free private enterprise,”
unaided by government; everything
‘‘bad’’ occurs because of gratuitous
government action and.interference.

They even blame slavery in the
United States on the government,
writing that “ . When 20 Africans
were first brought to the United States
to ‘help relieve Jamestown’s labor
shortage,’ they were eventually freed.
Yet, years later the House of Burgesses
enacted legislation that made all future
slaves, slaves forever.”

One person who understood clearer
than most the real, true situation in
this matter was Lincoln Steffens. He
built a great reputation for exposing
political corruption in the period in
United States history called ‘‘the
Gilded Age’’ by Mark Twain and ‘“‘The
Great Barbecue”’ by Vernon Louis
Parrington.

The real cause of political corruption
is revealed by Steffens in his Autobio-
graphy where he records telling an
audience of business men in Los
Angeles that ‘‘you cannot build or
operate a railroad or a street railway,
gas, water, or power company, develop
and operate a mine, or get forests and
cut timber on a large scale, or run any

. privileged business without corrupting,
or joining in the corruption, of govern-
ment. You tell me privately that you
must, and here.I am telling you
semi-publically that you must. And
that is all over the country.”’

Although in that same speech Stef-
fens advocated abolishing ‘‘privileges,’”’
the only commidily that politicians and
bureaucrats had, or have, to sell, he did
not identify the special, and single,

institution that underlaid, and under-

”

lies, the ‘‘privileges,’’ i.e., private
property. In fact, there is no entry for
“property ,’’ private or otherwise, in the
index of Steffens’ Autobiography.

Patterson
(In over 20 years at Davidson, I have
yet to encounter a student who has
read The Autobiography of Lincoln

Steffens. For some reason, which I
cannot remember, I had read it before I
entered Southwest Texas Teachers
College, which may explain, in part,
why, in my first Political Science class
when the professor asked, ‘‘Who owns
Texas?.’’ expecting the answer to be,
“the people,” I answered, ‘“Texas Gulf

SSulphur Company, Humble Oil and

Refining Company, and Texas Power
and Light.’’)

Since the era of ‘‘The Great Barbe-
cue,” most of the property, tangible
and intangible, has been concentrated
in the hands of a tiny percentage of the
population, puerile propaganda about
‘“‘neople’s capitalism” to the contrary
notwithstanding. The major function
of the government today is, therefore,
not to sell the usufruct of “natural
resources’’ and other privileges, but is
to protect property, to prevent any
vertical redistribution, and to ensure
that a ‘‘fair share’’ of the annual
product continues to accrue to the
present property owners, especially the
owners of intangible property. (For the
best account of:the nature and impor-
tance of intangible property, see,
David Bazelon, The Paper Economy.)

The means for accomplishing the
above responsibilities of the govern-
ment have been institutionalized long
enough to be almost universally ac-
cepted as God’s plan for the world, and

they function automatically. As Veblen *

noted many years ago: ‘‘all those

|
L

Letter to the Editor

3)

Christian ideals still solid

To the Editor:

In his discussion of the proposed
Faculty Code of Evaluation, SGA
President Bruce Brown seemed to be
fulfilling his function as the mouthpiece
of the student body by restating,
without carefully evaluating, a popular
position on Davidson's Christian com-
mitment: i.e., Davidson’s commitment
to its Christian heritage is an outdated,
“frank confession of weaknes’3.’’ Such a
superficial analysis of the issue is mdt
acceptable coming from any Davidson
student.

In the first place, every college
decides to promote certain ideals and
produce certain types of graduates. It
is impossible for a college not to do this
sifice a lack of decision has its own
ramifications.

Just as it strives for academic excel-
lence, Davidson remains dedicated to

intricate arrangements for doing those
things that we ought not to have done
and leaving undone those things we
ought to have done are by no means
maliciously intended. They are only the
ways and means of diverting a suffi-
cient share of the annual product to the
benefit of the legitimate beneficiaries,
the kept classes.” =

In contrast to the
Great Barbecue,”
leges”’

period of ‘‘The
when “‘special privi-
were up for grabs, all this would
appear to be accomplished today with
relatively little bribery. Governmental
officials at all levels,
branches, seem to know
what is expected of them.

In matters that are really important,
that is creating and protecting private
property, one is hard put to find a
single government official who has
failed to live up to what is expected of
him. Any bribery that is paid would
seem to be a waste of good money that
could be more profitably be given to

‘charity and used as an income tax
deduction.

Kingsley Martin’s apt observation
about .British journalists appears to
describe the behavior of our govern-
ment officials in the matter of protec-
ting private property:

‘‘You cannot hope to bribe or twist,

Thank God, a British journalist.

But seeing what a fellow will do

Unbribed, there’s really no occasion

Wo}!

and in all
“naturally”’

Next week: Abolition of private proper-
ty as a prerequisite for government
reform.

(CM) A survey at the U. of New
Mexico shows that almost half of the
210 students polled are daily readers of
the student newspaper, the LOBO.
Administered by the University’s Of-
fice of Research and Consumer Af_ irs,
the survey also reported tha. 92
percent of the students read the I ‘BO
at least once a week.

Editorials and opinion headed the
list of most interesting topics to
students, followed by world 1 news.

UNM student readers
put paper to acid test

its Christian heritage. Certainly ‘‘insti-
tutional insecurity contributes nothing
to Christian commitment,” and the one
thing that Davidson does ‘nat have is
“institutional insecurity.’’ An insecure
institution is one that cannot decide
what it is trying to-do. Our college has
been unusually effective in maintaining
a campus that encourages ‘‘Christian
commitment.’’ Just as Davidson re-
quirés academic qualifications from its
fatulty, it demands a willingness to
help maintain its environment.

Granted, ‘‘Christianity best defends
itself in an open and accessible forum—
not in isolation,’? but progress comes in
a situation that promotes Christianity.
‘Christians should be careful that they
are not harboring martyr complexes in
the desire. to be open-minded.

The College should not be interested
in exclusivity but should be moving
toward its goal of better Christian
understanding. The refusal to hire a
professor with ideals contrary to that
goal is as legitimate as trying to set
any kind of academic standards for
faculty. ‘‘The rich diversity which
debate (alone) can foster’”’ is minimal;
there must be direction to that debate
and that is what Davidson must offer.

“Davidson is dedicated to the quest
for truth and would set no limits to the
adventure of the mind.”’ This line from
the Statement of Purpose demon-
strates the responsibility of Davidson
to always encourage free and fruitful
use of the intellect in the quest for a
better understanding of Christianity.
Christian tenure is not the close-min-
ded Bob Jonesian policy which it has
been depicted as being.

On the contrary, it calls for students
to incorporate all ideas, Christian,
anti-Christian, and non-Christian into
church doctrine. This is a much more
difficult task for the student to perform
than the easy dismissal of ideas thrown
out by professors who do not share a
Christian commitment. We have a lot
going for us here at Davidson; let’s
don’t blow it.

Steve Austin ’81
Davidson College

The Davidsonian weicomes
letters to the editor on any

reserve the-sright to edit letters
over 200 words.
Mail letters to The Davidso-
lan, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036, or bring them by the
newspaper's office in the Col-
lege Union. Letters received by
Monday night will hal oe be

Local news, arts, and cartoons were
next in order; sports news ranked near
the bottom.

Most respondents said the purpose
of the student newspaper was ‘‘to keep
persons informed of current events.”
Reporting of campus-related news was
the next given purpose. One student
took a more utilitarian approach when
he said that the purpose of the LOBO
was to ‘‘provide a liner for cat ter
boxes, oy

