3 The Davidsonian
6

Davidson YM/YWCA characterized
by flexibility in its forty-year history §

é

By KIM KEPCHAR
Staff Writer

Throughout its history the YM/
YWCA has been an organization which
has tried to meet flexibly the needs of
the Davidson student body and the
Davidson community. In the history
there are three major periods of
development.

The Y was started at the beginning
of the 1930’s as a branch of the national
YMCA. The national organization
provided a secretary who was respon-
sible for programming.

transition as Davidson became co-ed,
the YMCA became the YM/YWCA
and women were absorbed into leader-
ship roles. Now the Y is paying more
attention to campus needs, but is
mutually supportive of community
needs.

Professor Rhodes, active in the Y as
a student at Davidson and later as a
faculty advisor, notes that student
interest in the Y varies. He sees this as
a function of periods of student
leadership at any given time, and the
general student religious and social

this is only a partial answer.

Rush Otey sees as one of the strong
points in the history of the Y its
position as a'‘‘flexible organization.”’
This has allowed it to grow and change
with student needs and wants and
sponsor such diverse programs as
counseling on alternatives to the draft
during the Viet Nam war, forums and
symposia on such topics as death and
dying, the STEP tutor program, the
fast for world hunger, CROP meals and
the ice cream socials among other
projects.

attitudes. He is quick to point out that

In the 1950’s the college was able to j - Soames caer

hire a full-time chaplain. Part of his job
was advisor to the Y. During this
period there was a shift as the Y moved
from a national orientation to an '
organization centering on community
and campus service.

In the 1970’s the Y again changed
with the elimination of the position of
college chaplain. Now, a faculty advi-
sor and Rush Otey, minister to
students, help to organize the Y’s
programs.

In the five years that Rush Otey has
been in his position he has noticed a
change in the Y's: attitudes. The first

couple of years ‘‘the Y was made up of
people concerned about social problems
who were very compassionate.’’ He
attributes this attitude partly as a
holdover of the ‘‘’60’s mood.”’ The next
few years witnessed a period of

Faculty Guest Opinion

Enviconnmenta

KELLY MOO
GRICE create astronomical gastronomical delights «
afternoon together. Grice finds that tutoring hi
meaningful to her as well as academically helpfgl tc
“I’m helping her find the motiviation within hers
listening to her read, I can give her positive reinfo!
without being a teacher figure,” explained Grice;

RE and her step-tutor, sophompre

‘Y’ offer.

By SHERI GRAVETT
Asst. FOCUS Editor
“An important part of pen

sonal growth is to become
involved in service,’’ says Pres}

Shi outlines aspects & misconceptions of service

By DAVID E. SHI
Professor of History
When The Davidsonian asked me to write a column about college
students and social service, my first inclination was to join the
growing chorus of Jeremiahs bemoaning the decline in student
activism since the glory days of the 1960s. The plaint is now
familiar. College students of the Vietnam era supposedly possessed
social empathy; today students exude social apathy. Instead of
p."tical or social involvement, students now prefer writing about

YM/YWCA advisor DAVID E. SHI [David Litiker]

the stock market, joining fraternities and sororities, sweating at
grades and discos, and honking for Christ. Concern for self has
replaced concern for society. And Adam Smith, Jeremy Bentham,
and Milton Friedman to the contrary, the two concerns are not
necessarily synonymous.
But after much contemplation I decided against such a scenario.
I did so because I am unconvinced that students today are
inherently any less compassionate or concerned than before.
Students have abandoned the barricades and returned to the
cloister not because they are callous and indifferent, but because
the times and the issues have changed. The Vietnam war is over,
, sthe.draft is onded, and civil rightahaye. heen granted, at least on
‘papers With such satic... .oues*@Moved, students tmve uaxviittly
turned to more immediate concerns such as the increasingly high
‘cost ‘of! college, the ever-tightening job ‘market, and the

competitive quest for admission to graduate and professional
schools.

That students have changed their priorities is not in itself
disturbing. In fact, I am sure that many professors and
administrators appreciate the renewed interest in academics. What
is disturbing is that some students run the danger of becoming so
immersed in the quest for grades and jobs that they lose contact
with their peers and society. With the absence of public issues that
directly affect our daily existence, natural human inertia takes
over. It is much easier to focus on immediate needs --- getting good
grades, getting a good date, and finding a good party.

Such activities are healthy and understandable, when pursued in
moderation and when placed in perspective. But when pursued in
excess, privatism and introspection can lead to intellectual and
emotional malaise, an indefinite feeling of uneasiness, discomfort,
or even illness. Last year, for instance, psychiatric attention
required by students at Harvard increased 22 per cent. A
university report observed that students there are distressed over
the “pervasive uncertainty of future employment. They sense an
urgency to work, to do well, to compete, and they are afflicted by
the failure to find meaning in it.”” When the single-minded pursuit
of self comes to dominate existence, then one forgets that one is

part of a larger universe. And we all know what John Donne said
about men and islands.

At Davidson, unfortunately, the physical environment of the
college reinforces.such myopia. We live and study in a sheltered
isolated, self-sustaining environment. Thus it is easy to get caught
up in the daily routine of academics, sleep, and social life and
ignore or incessantly put off involving oneself in serving other
students or the community. That many students are not involved
in community service does not necessarily indicate apathy or
callousness on their part. Calmness does not mean neutrality. I
prefer to believe that the lack of participation results from a hack of
awareness of the rich and varied possibilities for social service
available to students.

' I therefore welcomed the prospect of ‘The-Davidssiian focusing
on the acdi¢icico: vith YM/YWCA in the hope that informing
students of the myriad of possible service activities might in itself

stir interest and involvement. This is not to assume that the Y is

the only avenue for social a
only to recognize that it offrs
organizational scheme.

I have discovered that §tuc
about the Davidson YM/YWCA
from their experiences with hor
that the name of the organiati
such confusion). Some studgnts
that the YMCA is a place p s
crafts. One student at a receht '
back home was essentially @ ¢ou
suburban cocktail circuit. Other
and prayer meetings.

The Davidson College YM/"
tions. It is instead a service ge
no overt religious emphasis} \
the Y out of a sense of Chrigtia
out of a philosophy of se lay
society and to enrich pe!po
sponsored by the Y reflect he
motivation. The STEP Tuto} pr
lunches, the North Mecklenbu:
Visitation Program, the Comm)
the Senior Citizens Center t!
recycling efforts, and sever} ot
of opportunities to break outof
the joy of serving others, and
people outside the campus,
deserve attention.

I hope my assumption th
become involved in volunte¢r
auspices of the Y or not, i$ ¢
already includes a solid cor ¢
help is needed to accomplish th
leadership. If that help does Po!

~ they ‘‘just don’t have time
‘Davidson students are indee
‘‘grade-grubbing,” 25 professo
The Davidsonian. And maybe
i

at D
