February 17,1978

The Davidsonian,

‘fhrdon me, whe Tae the hiring and Firing anid here? } |

a, hi,»

B. Coward

Letters to the Editor

Polley asks Stuarts
to drop restrictions

To the Editor:

Dr. Leland Park’s letter to The
Davidsonian (Feb. 10, 1978) concern-
ing Stuart Scholarships being limited
to Christians seems reasonable. All
colleges have restrictive scholarships.
In principle his position is defensible.
But I believe that the social setting
alters the situation. Suppose the Stuart
Scholarship had included a restrictive
clause ‘“‘Whites Only’? Would David-
son College have accepted it? The
answer is obvious. We could not afford
to accept it. Why? Becuase Black
people are a minority group in this
country with a long history of being
persecuted. Any policy that discrimi-
nates against them wil] be quite
properly labeled racist. —

The same situation applies to the
Jews. They are a minority group with a
long history of being persecuted pri-
marily by so-called Christians. People
.who have lived in other parts of the

United States than the South imme-
diately react negatively to the phrases
“Christians Only” and ‘‘Gentiles
Only.”’ A scholarship designated
“Christians Only”’ runs the grave
danger of being labeled anti-Semitic.
Restrictions, in this case, are unwise
and improperly discriminatory.

I would apply the same argument to
scholarship programs at, let us say,
Hebrew University in Israel. Their
scholarships ought not to be designa-
ted “Jews Only,’’ but be open to Arab
Christians and Arab Muslims who are
residents of Israel. Again restrictions,
in this case, would be unwise and
improperly discriminatory.

I hope the Stuart family sees fit to
remove all religious restrictions from
their scholarship program.

Max E. Polley
Professor of Religion

Davidson College

Taylor differs on Devon

To the Editor:
This letter is in reference to the

Professor Devon case. First of all I
want to say that if the procedure of her
dismissal.was mishandled injany way,
she deserves all the support that the
Davidson students can muster. How-
ever, I feel that some students have
been confusing the separate issues of
her dismissal with her teaching ability.
These students are giving the David-
son community a biased look at the
situation.

Also I feel that some students will
jump on anyone’s bandwagon if it gives
them a chance to blast the administra-
tion.

. hie, etndent,,had. Professer “Devs

fall term for South Asian Studies, and
after experiencing her teaching meth-
ods I thoroughly agree with the

decision not to renew her contract.
Granted she is an expert in her field
and an immensely interesting person,
but there are other factors present.
Among other things, we fell two
weeks behind in our syllabus, and I was
not alone in thinking that she was a
very disorganized lecturer. If this was a
pilot course I would be a little
sympathetic, but due to the number of
times she has taught the course, and

-the chaotic state of it, I don’t think she

compares favorably to any other Dav-
idson professor I have experienced.
Again this is one student’s opinion,
and I ought to stress that this letter
has nothing to do with personal likes or

__-Aislivas. but is simply an opinion I fgpl
 f must express: ™ oat

Davidson College

David Taylor ’80

Opinion

By BOB MORRISON
Guest Columnist
[Third in a series]

Is it true, as William Buckley stated
in his recently televised debate with
Ronald Reagan, that we resent people
in other countries fighting for their
freedom? And if the country they are
fighting against is the United States,
does might make us right in ignoring or
crushing the Panamanian’s request for
sovereignty over the Canal Zone? It is

my hope, through this week’s column, :

that you become aware of the diversity
of viewpoints among the Panamanian
people.

The diversity of viewpoints became
most apparent last October as the
Panamanian people went to the polls to
vote (“‘according to your conscience’’)
on the newly proposed treaties. The
diversity became apparent because the
Panamanian government, under pres-
sure to ensure the free expression of
speech, lifted its censorship over
the news media prior to the vote.

Sizeable opposition

Opponents immediately began to
campaign against the treaties. When
the vote had been collected and
counted, one-third of Panama’s popu-
lation had voted against the treaties.
The reason for this sizable opposition
varied among segments of the popula-
tion.

One province (San Blas) barely
obtained a hundred votes in favor of
the treaties, due to their fear that
tourism, a primary source of income for
these people, would decline drastically.
(The total population of this province
numbers between five to ten thousand.)

Owners of small shops and tourist
agencies in Panama City opposed the
treaties for similar reasons. They felt
their livelihood would be threatened by
the removal of Americans upon whom
they had established an economic
dependence.

A group of Panamanian lawyers
opposed the treaties as unconstitution-
al, stating that the treaties were drawn
up under a military, rather than
civilian government. The current con-
stitution expires in August.

Marxist students within the Univer-
sity of Panama accused the govern-
ment of weakening its demands to the
United States by allowing the U.S.
military bases to remain until 1999.
They have been advocating the comp-
lete eradication of U.S. presence in
Panama.

Civil protest

Who then is supporting the treaties?
Support is drawn from the poor who
have heard promises of improved living
conditions, the students who seek
economic opportunities, and business-
men who foresee economic profits
through the dissolution of Canal Zone
services. The majority of Panamanians
4o support the treaties, and I think the
number of supporters would have been.
larger with a different form of govern-

‘ment in Panama.

D

Pro-government factions ridiculed
the opponents, particularly in the San
Blas province, as ‘‘traitors of the
Fatherland.’’ The reasoning for the
accusation is simple. The backing of
this cause is equated with the popular
backing of a system of government. To
vote against the treaties is projected as
a vote against the government. Yet,
the confusion over the relationship of
these treaties to the system of govern-
ment within Panama was one factor
that divided the votes.

In the ten years I have lived within
the Canal Zone, I have always been
aware of discontent within the seg-
ments of the Panamanian population
toward their form of government. The
business community has often spoken
out. against the government for its
various policies, particularly economic
policies. In January of 1977, a number
of businessmen were deprived of their
rights as citizens and exiled from the
country, as part of a power.move on the
part of the government. Some have
been allowed to return, others have
not.

Panama’s sovereignty?

Human rights

Human rights have been violated
within Panama time and time again
since the military government has been
in power. Many of the Hispanic
countries are governed in practice by a
Napoleonic code of law. Enforcement of
negative claim rights by the state is
often arbitrary. It has been this way in
Panama,

Many businessmen are interested in
returning to a democratic form of
government; some support the treaties,
some do not. ‘One prominent doctor
sums up his thoughts on Panama:
‘‘Panamanians undisputably back any
effort to achieve total sovereignty in
the Canal Zone. At the same time one
may be sure that Panamanians do not
back any totalitarian system of govern-
ment.’’ Continuing, he emphasized, °
“‘we will only achieve our total sover-
eignty when we have recovered our
internal sovereignty.’

This, of course, hardly sounds like
the dominant Panamanian attitude
conveyed to most Americans. It is not
surprising, however, in a country in
which the average Panamanian fears
expressing himself to the news corres-
pondents from the United States. We
often take our own human rights for
granted. There is no fear in Panama for
supporting the government, but few
comfortably oppose the government.

If Panama’s chief of state, Omar
Torrijos, will step down from office and
turn his country over to civilian rule,
Panama will have the opportunity to
achieve total sovereignty. If opponents
crush Panama’s concessions for a new
treaty, they will also crush another
nation’s attempt to peaceably rule,
although a civilian government, a
territory that is no longer bifurcated.

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters to the editor on any
subject. All letters for publica-
tion must be signed. We reserve
the right to edit letters over 300
words.

Mail letters to The Davidso-
nian , Box 218, Davidson,’ N.C.
28036, or bring them by the
newspaper's office in the Col-
lege Union. Letters received by

printed in that week's issue.

y very twill: ordinarily ‘bof
