News|

at a glance

April 3 set as Bell deadline.

Potential authors, poets and dramatists may submit original
works to compete for the 1978 Vereen Bell Memorial Award for
Creative Writing. The award carries a first prize of $50 and a
second prize of $25. Any regularly enrolled student is eligible to
participate. A student may submit as many original works in as
many different categories (fiction, drama, poetry, essay) as he
wishes. All entries must be typed, double spaced and submitted to
a member of the English Department by Monday April 3rd. The
name of the writer must be attatched to the entry and enclosed in
an envelope bearing the title of the work. No name should appear
on the manuscript itself.

The judge is Mr. Robert Creeley, who will make the awards and
give a reading of his poetry on Thursday April 20 in the 900 Room.

Debate team places fourth

Maria Patterson and Lindsey Robertson finished in fourth place
with a 5-2 record in the Delta Sigma Rho-Tau Kappa Alpha
National Debate Championship held at the University of Illinois
last week.

Patterson, the Davidson Debate Team captain, received the first
place Speaker Award in the tournament.

Davidson debated negative against the resolution: The federal
government should pass a law to prohibit and/or regulate
pornography. Among the teams Davidson defeated were Butler
University, Ball State University, Wabash College, DePauw
University and the University of Illinois. Teams from 67 colleges
and universities throughout the U.S. participated.

This spring, the Davidson College Debate Team plans to hold a
public debate on campus and an exhibition debate at North Iredell
High School.

The team also plans to participate in the First International
Women’s Debate Championship April 14-15 at Barnard College,
Columbia University.

Applicants set new record

Applications to Davidson this year represent a slight increase
over previous years, according to Dean of Admissions H. Edmunds
White. Last year 1013 men and 511 women applied, making a total
of 1524. As of March 20, 1020 men and 523 women have applied,
making a total of 1543, the largest in the school’s history.

According to the College Board, while the number of applicants
to colleges and universities varies from year to year, in general the
figure is remaining stable. White attributes the slight increase in
applications to Davidson to better recruiting methods.

“The single most important factor is the good recruiting job by
our current students. Many applicants indicate that the reason
they are applying is the positive feelings Davidson students have
expressed for the school.’’ stated White.

White also feels the admissions staff has for the past few years
been doing a better job acquainting visitors with the school and
encouraging potential students to apply.

The admissions office hopes to keep the total enrollment at 1300.
With that goal in mind, the number of freshmen accepted this year
will be roughly equivalent to last year. White believes that the
competition among men for spaces is similar to previous years, but
that women may find it increasingly difficult to gain acceptance.

Contributors: Emily Partin, Carol Loptson, and Pam um Camerra.

Planned Parenthood.

We give help. Not sermons.

One thing you'll never hear at Planned Parenthood is a
sermon on sexual behavior.

What you will hear are some straight answers to any
questions you may have about sex. And some ready
solutions to your problems, including abortion service in our
own clinic for women under 12 weeks pregnant.

We also provide free pregnancy testing and counseling.

We can help you with birth control methods.

And we can tell you where to go for pre-natal care and
adoption services, infertility problems,
female sterilization and V.D. treatment.

But we don't preach.

At Planned Parenthood, we can
help you in a lot of different ways.
And the way we pdhld it, sparing you
a sermon is one oO}

CALLUS AT 377-0841.

Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte,

951 S. Independence Blvd. at McDowell, Charlotte, N.C. 28202.

DAUNTLESS OPPONENTS match deadly steel in a battle between good - evil. to kook 1 up es

an otherwise uneventful evening in the library.

| (Ron Gini Re ors

Senate seeks council jhopetuls

By ANN GRAY HARVEY
' Staff Writer
The Senate will be making its
appointments to the adminis-
tration and faculty councils and
committees this spring.

The Senate has broken these
appointments up into three
groups. The first group will
consist of these four commit-
tees:

1. Admissions and financial
aid advisory council

2. Extended studies commit-
tee

3. Academic lectures and
culture committee

4. Advisory council on inter-
collegiate athletics

1, Admissions: The council is
advisory to the President in this
area of responsibility. The
council meets with the Presi-
dent or his delegates to receive

reports and to eavine en

respect to on-going programs
and problems in this area. Two
positions are available.:

2. Extended studies: This
committee aids the Vice-Presi-

dent for Academic Affairs in

supervising the Freshman-.
Sophomore Extended Studies -.
Program and the Career/Ser- .

vice Program. Its members
evaluate and report the: pro-

gram options available and
further serve as an inter-area |
committee for Extended Stu-
dies work that is not confined to...

only one of the four areas of the
curriculum. Two places are
open.

3. Academic lecture and cul-
ture: This committee advises
the Vice-President of Academic
Affairs in the planning and
scheduling of public lecture
programs of an academic na-

. Harvey,

. tute, ‘and cultsirgl programs. te i
_ the Artists. Series: This com, a

mittee has’ two. open positions.”

"Intercollegiate , athletics: :
che council. meets withthe. :
President, or: his ‘officer ‘to
" receive ‘reports,: and: ‘to. advise
-with respect to on-going’ prob- -
lems; programs; and. plans.:
_Three’ ponliioes) need: to. ya
; filled.

The filing: “deadline ‘is * “April
15. .1f there is any interest or: .
question, ‘call either:. Ann’ Gray
892-4341; - Randy ©
‘Haynes, 892-0178, or Bruce P. ©
Brown, : 892-5410° or 892- 2000,.
' Ext. 147.

Other committees to he ‘filled
at.a later date: E.P.C., Finance,

-Personnel and Development,

International Education, Libra- ©
ry, Campus and Religious Life,
Alumni, Physical Education,
and the Bookstore.

.Lovell comments on WDAV

(Continued from page 1)

have after May 1, he admits
that development in each of the
programming areas—classical,
rock, jazz, religous, educational
sports, and news—is unequal.

“The classical programming
is coming along fine,’’ said
Lovell. The station has acquired
exclusive arrangements with
five major symphonies and
three of the four major opera
companies.

WDAV will offer ‘‘alterna-
tive’ rock music, shunning the
top 40. Both the rock and jazz
records are adequate for now,
Lovell believes, but in all areas
some of the record library is old
and unusable. ‘‘We will add to
the record library as we can.”

Plans for the religious area
include an expansion beyond
programming the Sunday ser-
vices at DCPC by adding
syndicated material and draw-

ing innovative ideas from the
community.

Lovell says that the station’s
commitment to educational pro-
gramming will be ‘‘modest’’
until funding expands. ‘‘We
hope to develop the resources in
the community, the faculty and
students, and pool the educa-
tional resources. of area
schools.”’

The immediate goal for sports
is to broadcast all of the
Davidson football and basket-
ball games. Later on, a sports
interview show may be aired.

Though the current pro-
graming schedule calls for the
broadcast of a 1 hour news
program each day, Lovell hints
that this is an unattainable goal
until studio facilities are im-
proved to accomodate roundta-
ble discussions and interviews.

Long-range plans for the
station include purchase of an
automation system. According

to Lovell the system, which will
play programs pre-taped by
student disc jockeys, will serve
as a back up during between
term vacations and in the
summer. Until the automation
system is purchased, students
will be hired by the College to
man the station during vacation
periods and in the summer.

Lovell hopes that word-of-
mouth. publicity will promote
the station; in addition, the
station will mail out a monthly
program guide which for the
first two or three issues ‘‘will be
a publicity tool.as well.”

Lovell recognizes that the
future of the station is uncer-
tain. But, he said, ‘I can only
be optimistic. I think the public -
support is there—all we have to
do is reach them. So. much
depends on money and public:
support. The essential thing is
to get on the air so we will have -
@ product to market.”’
