February 10, 1978

The Davidsonian :

Opinion

Sears

By BOB MORRISON
Guest Columnist
[Second in a series]

In recent years probably no bipar-
tisan treaties have ever had as much
exposure to the American public as
the two new Panama Canal Treaties.
White House and State Department
officials have expended a large a-
mount of time and energy to ‘“‘sell’’
the treaties to the public. Perhaps
some day a book »will be written,
entitled The Selling of a Treaty,
parodying the famous book about the
Nixon campaign, The Selling of a
President. Yet, I think the American
public has received, and reacted with,
a. limited and generally uninformed
perspective. Frankly, I. have not been
satisfied with the State Department’s
diplomatic procedures for a number or
reasons...

Letter to the Editor

First, the atmosphere surrounding
the negotiations has not been posi-
tive. I can only speculate why the
State Department has negotiated
under a cloud of guilt and fear. Three
reasons come to my mind: (a) the
State Department presently feels that
there has been an injustice on their
part to Panama in 1903; (b) the State
Department fears another Vietnam-
style war will erupt in Panama if the
treaties are not signed (I do not
believe Panama, unaided by another
power, could sustain a war militarily
or economically); and (c) the State
Department fears not being liked in
Hispanamerica, and therefore, not
being sought for aid. This fear is not
unfounded for Torrijos is an opportu-
nistic dictator who has already been
visited by Soviet economic and com-
mercial delegates.

Executive Balks

Second, the American public is not
guilty of procrastinating adoption of
these treaties for 13 years; the execu-
tive branch is. Former President John-
son made the first commitment to
Panama in 1964 when he said that the
United States was willing to negotiate
“an entirely new treaty on the existing
Panama Canal.”’ This ‘‘new” treaty ‘was

ready in 1967, but was rejected by
Torrijos, as I mentioned in my first
article. The present treaties have only
been under negotiation for the past
seven years. Also, the decision to
abrogate the 1903 treaty was made,
without any consent of the Senate, by
then Secretary of State Henry Kissin-
ger in 1974. Thus, there has been
confusion as to which branch of the
government is responsible for initiating
negotiations on a new treaty. It is my

understanding that the Subcommittee

on Separation of Powers leaned toward

believing the responsibility for negoti-
ating a Canal treaty rested with the
Senate, while the Committee on Fo-
reign Relations believed it rested
within, initially, the powers of the
executive branch. This problem is
related to the next.

Third, a debate continues as to
whether the United States presently
exercises sovereignty by treaty or by
territorial right. The State Department
argues for the former, citing Supreme
Court cases that pertained to Indian
land claims. On the other hand, some
senators believe that the United States
has the legal right to claim territorial
sovereignty due to former Supreme
Court cases which have referred to the
Canal Zone as U.S. territory. I would

* support these senators because I be-

Reply needs some qualifications

To the Editor:

I was profoundly interested in read-
ing in The Davidsonian the opinions
expressed on the Middle East by
Youssef Abagui. I was also interested
in Schleifer’s answer to that article
although this answer, I think, needs
some qualifications.

Spoils of war

First: ‘Throughout history a victor
in a war has been allowed to keep the
lands it won,” writes Schleiffer. I think
that, on the one hand, if the Israelis
have the same idea, then peace is
unattainable.

On the other hand, to nurse such a
platitude would justify the actions of
Hitler while he was the winner. It
supposes the arbitrary right of the
dictators over their “‘subjects.”’ In this
way South African apartheid, for
example, would be the practice of this
ius utendi et abutendi (The right of use
and abuse), of winner over loser.

Rampant racism

Second: Schleifer feels offended by
Abagui’s parallels between Zionism
and Nazism. In my opinion, if the U.N.
decisions condemning Zionism as ra-
cism are justified, then the comparison
is obvious.

Furthermore, the Jewish notion of
being God’s chosen people is another
form of.the concept of racial superior-
ity, especially when applied against the
notion of gentiles.

It makes no difference that the
Christian religions are heirs to this
concept; they too are racist. For
example, what is the meaning of the
Catholic notion (prior to the second
Vatican Council) of ‘‘being;im.+h-
mystic body of Christ?” Because in

addition to the separated churches such
as the Greek Orthodox or Lefevre,
there are sinners, the excommunicated
like all Protestants and pagans--all of
whom are outside of God’s truth.

Another holocast

Third and last: I think it is
deplorable to talk about the Middle
East without talking about the Pale-
stinian problem. This problem is patent
and easily forgotten. It is very easy to
forget the Palestinians while we spec-
ulate on the holocaust suffered by the
Jews through history. It is true that
Jews have suffered. For example, the
Jews were expelled from Spain in 1492;
burned alive from the 16th century to
the 19th by the Holy Inquisition;
denied the right to practice their
religion in Spain until 1953; despised
and villified in Europe and, finally,
reviled and immolated through the
designs of satanic madmen...

But now Zionist Jews themselves are
pursuing and executing people. The
massacres in the villages of Der Yasim
(1967) and Kufr Qasim (1968) have
passed into history as evidence of
persecution by Jews.

Samih al Qasim, an important
Palestinian who took his name from
that razed village, says that now the
hangmen are the sons of those Jews
burned in Auschwitz. This, too, is true.
Palestinians are being pursued, perse-
cuted, and killed in Lebanon, Syria,
and. Jordan by the constant razzias of
the sons of Judah.

This is the other holocaust.

Pandora’s box

Schleifer adds in his answer that
“The Israelis. have already taken one
desert and made it a aecent place to

live.”” Like many of Schleifer’s state-
ments, this one is dangerous because it

carries within it ‘the yeast of the

extermination of the Palestinians.

No. The Israelis did not make the
desert into a decent place to live. It was
the Jewish bankers and financiers in
New York and elsewhere who made it
possible. Furthermore this desert turn-
ed into a paradise may become a
Pandora’s Box for Palestinians. If the
western world is hypnotized by the
siren’s sounds of the kibbutzim which
smell of US Jewish dollars and Pales-
tinian blood.

Last Resort

Yes, blood of terrorists but terrorists
who have no other means of defending
themselves than urban and interna-
tional guerilla action. (I think the
problem of guerilla bands needs more
attention than stupid lamentations
over their destructiveness. For exam-

ple, for the Basques in northern Spain ~

terrorism was the only way to respond
to the terrorism of Franco’s police.)

No monopoly

Terrorism is definitely not a mono-
poly of the Palestinians. Does Schleifer
remember who killed Count Bernadotte
on September 17, 1948 in Jerusalem? It
was not Palestinians or Arabs but
Jews.

Whoever is free of sin can pitch the

» first rock.

In conclusion, I commend Schleifer
for his intention to voice ‘‘open-minded
opinions”’ as he describes them. But I
think qualifications! are necessary for
this sort of assertion.

Ignacio J. Lopez

International Siucou+{Spadn) |» |

Public receives limiied view of Caniai’

lieve we have legally acquired most, if
not all, of the land the Canal Zone
occupies. Many are not aware that the
majority of this land has been pur- .
chased by Congress at a cost of $165
million through a Joint Land Commis-
sion of both governments. The pur-
chasing procedures of this Commission
are spelled out under Article VI of the
1903 treaty. The sole record of these
purchases rests not within the Congres-
sional archives, but within the small
District Courthouse in the Canal Zone.

If the land is territory of the United
States, then the House must be
involved in the process of ratification,
as well as the Senate, since they are
responsible for the transferal of U.S.
territory.

Showy signing

Fourth, many who witnessed the
signing of the treaties without being
fully informed on the content may have
thought the United States was signing
an agreement with the entire hemis-
phere. Extending an invitation to 26
heads of state was not necessary for the
signing of this treaty between Panama

‘and the United States. I see it as a

propagandizing move by Carter in his
personal attempt to sell the treaties. I
wish the treaties could speak for
themselves. Rejection of these treaties
would be extremely embarrassing to
the President and the State Depart-
ment, and would ‘‘severely undercut
President Carter’s authority and influ-
ence in foreign affairs’’ (Dr. Abraham
Lowenthal, in Sunday’s Observer.)
(You may not be aware that most of
these heads of state had not seen a copy
of the entire text of the treaties prior to
their arrival in Washington.)

Future treaties

Some Panamanians think the United
States is acting like a pendejo, or a
‘‘damn fool,’’ by making as many
concessions as they have with a
military dictator who does not repre-
sent the needs of the people. My
dissatisfaction with the diplomatic
procedures goes beyond these few
points. I am also concerned with the
procedures of future treaties. You will
not obtain the impression I have of the
negotiations of the treaties merely by
listening to any of the already slanted
major news agencies. My impressions
come primarily from the hearings held
before Senate committees within the
past year, and secondarily from my
conversations with individuals within
the Canal Zone and Panama who have
spoken with both senators and State
Dapartment officials.

Next week I would like to point to
some problems in the first treaty, and
explain why I believe Panama needs a
new treaty.

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters to the editor on any
subject. All letters for publica-
tion must be signed. We reserve
the right to edit letters over 300
words.

Mail letters to The Davidso-
nian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036, or bring them by the
newspaper's office in the Col-
lege Union. Letters received by
Monday night will ordinarily be

- printed in that week's isgue..

