The Davidsonian

vanuary 27° 1978

Late-blooming sculptor likes hot rock

By ESTHER BRUCE
Asst. Features Editor

“I get an idea of what I want and
then I just dig in and see what’s in
there.”’

This explanation may satisfy the
question that pops into one’s mind
upon seeing the.current sculpture
display in the Union: ‘“‘Where did he
come up with that?’’ He finds it
already hiding in the stone.

Lee Hansel, creator of these num-
erous sculptures is a late bloomer. ‘‘I
started taking a sculpture course

when I retired.’

He started working in clay, prog-

ressed to metal, and finally began to
work in stone. Since then he has been
working mostly in stone.

“I like stone pretty good, and I
have plenty of stone available.”

Before he retired he worked in a
body shop. He feels that his work still
helps him. ‘‘Shaping fenders and
bodies helps me in working.”

Although he does not work on cars
anymore, he does his sculpting in the
back of a front end shop.

Although he does have some idea

SEXY WOMAN catches the eye of photographer Harry Calin whose work is
now on display in Chambers Gallery. Passing over the majestic skyline of a city,
he burrows into its depths, searching for what may seem insignificant at first, but
what really are small representatives of the city itself.

when he starts, he is never quite sure
exactly what he will end up with.
“You change as you go along. If

you make a mistake, you have to
work around it.”

But he says that sometimes a

mistake can lead to a better sculpture
in the long run.

He tries to be original, but he is

also. alert for new things. ‘I try to
keep from doing anything exactly like
anybody else, but still I’m always
looking for ideas.”

The reactions to the display have

been varied because some of the

Yeee-haaah

[David Litaker]

pieces seem to be suggestive.

Granted not all, indeed many of
the sculptures could be deemed erotic.
In response to that thought, Mr.
Hansel simply states, ‘‘that’s what I
try to make ’em like. If everybody
agrees with everything, then it’s not
much of a piece.”

He wants to do some more work in
metal sculpture, but somehow he
cannot seem to get away from stone.

“I’m planning to make some more
metal sculpture, but everytime I
finish a stone sculpture I just go get
another piece of stone.”

Stomp your feet

By MARTIN MCCOY
Staff Writer
It’s the weekend and you're hungry
for action? Head for the city? No!
Head for the country! It’s only as far

as a crossroads called Terrell N.C..

and it’s the Lake Norman Music Hall.

Approaching on Highway 150 it
looks like a used car lot with banners
and lights and cars and trucks all
around.

The place itself is plain yet charm-
ing in its simplicity. It’s like a
warehouse or maybe a Cessna aircraft
hanger filled with folding chairs.
There’s a wooden recessed stage at
one end, At the other end is cotton
candy, hot dogs, records, and various
souvenirs peddled by the performers.

The music is first rate.

There’s hell raisin’, foot stompin’,
bluegrass on Saturdays and Gospel
sings on Sunday afternoons. I’ve seen
three shows there recently and each
has been different and entertaining.

The New South was young and

ii.

i
| ie |
} 1

a er ere err ce 3118435. And other

BETWEEN 107

progressive with good harmony, Les-
ter Flatt and the Nashville Grass
were—goodness  gracious—they’re
old time-but still the best.

Most recently was the Lewis Fami-
ly who were a wild mixture of. gospel,
bluegrass, and comedy. ~

This Saturday is the biggest show
yet--Bill Monroe’s ‘“‘Big Mid-Winter
Show.’’ For the uninitiated, Bill
Monroe is known as the ‘Father of
Bluegrass,’’ and he rightly deserves
the title.

The show is from 2 to 11 pm and it
costs five dollars instead of the usual
$3.50.

During Midwinter’s Weekend on
Saturday, February 4, there will be a.
fiddler’s convention sponsored by the
Catawba Rescue Squad. A convention
is a competition by amateur bluegrass
bands for prizes. It’s also a time for
swapping songs and forming new
groups. It all starts at 7.

Perhaps the most enjoyable thing
about the place is the people. They
are good hard-working people out to
have a good time without pretensions.
Or at least their pretensions are
limited to wearing double-knit suits.

Always there are verbal duels
between the audience and the musi-
cians. Occasionally some character
will get up and start dancing around
and cutting up. People hand their re-
quests directly to the players and talk

) ra Ram- Jet heal ly “Jet ive15 Gallons Of Air to each other.
Galion Of al ig Gives You As Much If you think you might make a go of

it—and I urge you to—just go up
Interstate 77 to 150, then follow 150
west for about six miles. It’s only
about 15 or 20 minutes away.

I recommend a stop on the way at
the Anchor Tavern on 115 just north
of here to put you in the mood.

15% More Clean Power! Jet Like Acceleration! -

We believe Ram-Jet is the most exciting piece of high-performance
automotive equipment since the V-8. Yet it weighs only a few ounces.
instatis in a couple of minutes (No special tools or training needed. You
won't even get your hands greasy). Costs less than a tankful of gas

And aaves you so much gas, it's like getting up to one gaiion in

every ten FREE!

The brainchild of Ed Aimaquist. internationally famous automotive
engineer and the “Thomas Edison of high-performance accessories”
The Ram-Jet took over 20 years to develop and perfect
H How does it work?

Just as a jet engine requires a certain supply of air to operate
M so does the gasoline combustion engine in your car. And it's the
carburetor that mixes this air with fuel to fire the cylinders and
meke your car go. The problem is that carburetors were invented
over 50 years ago when gas was plentiful and cheap and air
Pollution wasn't even talked about. The carburetor hasn't
chenged much since then: It’s still a big compromise! it only
works perfectly on those rare when all driving
4 conditions are perfect. (Which averages only a couple of
minutes at the most out of every driving hour.) Your

SIMPLE INSTRUCTIONS
Easy instructions show

you how to install in just a
few minutes. No special
tools. No training needed.
Fits all cars and trucks.

Now, at last, the Ram-Jet to the rescue!

ft solves both problems at once.

It brings your 50-year-old-carburetor

design into the Jet Age.

1) It works like a “mini-computer” to automati-
cally adjust the air/gas mixture to your every
driving need. It thus steps up gas moreculariza-
tion. . . reducing the over-rich mixture before it
becomes wasteful. Just as a jet engine sucks air
into it... the Ram-Jet automatically and safely
jets air into the gas mixture the very split second

Looking
for an

‘ carburetor just can not efficiently adjust itselt to your your driving conditions require it. SD y
, Mop-end-go driving, sudden bursts of speed; or to 2) fh captures the polluted air that would ordi- eae
H in technical terms . . . those many occasions narily be fed back into your engine . . . and re-en-

ergizes it into.a Jet & * that is once again

engine is operating under 0-10"
conditions. ignited into weefel clean power instead of clog-

. When this crucial mixture

MBA Program?

Merona ata ot mrecreuns . ging Up your engine and.moking it hesitate ang
tot more gas being burned than is really is ners nies Segoe row The MEA Sele 7
Necessary Ou Sai similar devices sold ii ur

there thas $20'9 pees. Ted Rem-Jet Super! 9 eun versity oO

charger is now available to you for just $14.95.
Because of 2 special arrangement, it comes to

North Carolina at Chapet Hill has an

you direct (no mickdlerhen) from the i excellent national ranking. Why? A
fi if, Mr. Ed Alma

distinguished faculty, an outstanding

Surencnanaen SY our menmuer} | student body, an innovative curricu-

“Suddenly my little six pt yiclenat pga

é my 80 meny

cylinder engine seems rishioners. We found

to have the power.ofan out that we average
from 2 to 6 more miles

lum, and a reputation for quality
among employers.

MBA Program
The University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill
_ Carroll Hall, 012-A, Drawer 687 .
Chapel Hill, N@,27514

Consumer Cooper Dept.
918 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois GO605

Please rush me the following on your 90-day money back guarantee
0 1 RAM-JET $14.95 CO) 2 RAM-JETS $25.95
Enclose 75¢ for handling & postage in cash, check or money order.

Truck or Car (year & model) 1

Name___ a a Sa
Address. i e TeRi ND SSSR Pe: engine, it’s no telling how many extra power-
packed miles you'll be able to jog on your
engine before it's ready for the junk heap)

be een em

