. September 8, 1978

2 x ~
“ Unusual preacher will speak

Some clergymen take upon themselves the comforting of the Establishcnent,
thers the oppressed. . See
Fi : Will D. Campbell ministers to everyone, but notably to society’s critics. Lord
linda save him, he says, from ‘‘the wf of cd ae ry ee
pes He is now outside any church, but every weekend p grims ranging
es outlaw Waylon Jennings to satirists like Jules Feiffer and Garry (Doonesbury)
Trudeau stream into Campbell’s Mount Juliet, Tenn. home. ‘‘We sit under the

editor - white oaks, drink whiskey, and talk about God,” smiles Will,
: He was the civil rights standard-bearer for the National Council of Churches
6 F: : the self-described “redneck” who stood with Martin Luther King Jr., H. Rap
j Brown and Andrew Young through the tumult of the southern integration

: As chaplain at Ole Miss in the mid 1950s, he was one of the first white
r LN ministers in the South to encourage blacks to battle racism.

7 alee Le Adie Mea His several books include The Failure and the Hope, Callings, And the
pny F. (6 Criminals with Him, and, most recently, Brother to a Dragonfly.

Today Campbell is the director of a loosely structured Committee of Southern
Churchmen, whose message is a cryptic ‘Be reconciled.”

“Some people say to watch out for me, that I offer cheap grace,” he
acknowledges. But he insists ‘‘the truth is that the Christian faith just can’t be
as complicated as we’ve made it.’ : 7

In his inimitable way, Will Campbell has reduces the basics almost to a
one-liner. ‘“‘We’re all bastards,” he says, “‘but God loves us anyway.”

Campbell will be speaking at the first weekly campus/community worship.
service of the year at 7 p.m. Wednesday, September 13 in the DCPC. He will
also speak informally and perhaps sing on Thursday, September 14 in the 4
Room.

campus activities

September 8: Pop Film, Five Easy Pieces, Love. 7:00 and 10:30. (Please note
time change. :
Davidson Community Players present Neil Simon’s Plaza Suite, Hodson
Hall. 8:15.
Pep Rally and Bonfire, Patterson Court. 8:30.
Buffo: an entertainer (see story(. 900 Room. 10:00.

September 9: Plaza Suite. See Friday.
Buckacre Concert. Love. 8:30.

September 10; Freshman Regatta, Lake Campus. 2:00.

September 11: Tryouts for Fall Major Drama Production, Hodson Hall.
7:00-10:00 p.m.

September 12: Opening of Frank di Gioia Exhibition, Gallery.

; September 15: Pop Film, Goodbye Girl, Love. 8:00 and 10:30. *

BUFFO, a multi-talented performer, will enchant Davidson students with
tonight's performance. (Drawing by Mark Tyndall) ;

Buffo entertains tonight

Howard Buten, ne Buffo; was born and grew up in Detroit, Mi. By the time he
graduated from high school, he had worked as a professional artist, having his
work on display in local galleries; published some poems and articles in local
magazines; and played music professionally as songwriter-guitarist, drummer,
with a “working knowledge’ of the trumpet and violin.

He attended the University of Michigan for two years before he ran away to
join the circus. He was accepted to a graduated from the Ringling Bros. and
i Barnum and Bailey Clown College of Venice, Florida, and toured for two years
las the featured clown of the Circus Bartok, a European-style one-ring tent
ile on the read, he added. concertina and banjo to his Musical Clown
repertoire. In 1972 he returned to Detroit to write and co-star in WXYZ (ABC)
television’s “‘Super Circus” show. :

Disillusioned with the inhibiting atmosphere of local television, though, he
left_ the network to do something totally unique. He became Buffo. As Buffo,
Buten combines all of his cultivated talents into one character: Clown, Singer,
Musician, Mime, Artist.

Buten has composéd: dozens of songs, many especially for Buffo; plays —
trumpet, violin, cello drums, guitar, concertina, banjo and harmonica; has ,
published thirty articles on a variety of subjects, has written four novels (as yet
unpublished) ‘speaks Chinese {Péking Mandarin), Polish and Spanish; has
taught for a’ year and a:half in the Wayne State University Theartre
Department; twice toured Japan as Buffo; and is currently on the staff of The

THE UNION Concert Committee presents MCA recording artist Buckacre in

concert Satyrday night.

Children’s Orthogenic Center of Detroit as psycho-therapist, specializing in : : r ‘ yee a ; :
work with autistie children “wf. BUCKaecre to give concert .
Buffo will be appearing in the 900 Room tonight at 10:00 p.m. Admission is 50 1 aE .

cents. The name “Buckacre,”’ according to the band’s lead guitatist Dick Verucchi,
is southern slang for ':beginner’s fear.’’ The name was choseh, he’says, because
“the music business. is so big, so awesome, that we had the buckacres’”’

“Those initial fears have been conquered by now, though, since the hand has

Septeber 9 Fordham. Richardson Field. _. From their beginnings in Illinois, the group moved to Tampa, Florida, where
mae ys as oi ek ene ||. they acditired a subjstatitial following in that area and throughout the Southeast.
ow. ee aa ; They then moved to Atlarita ‘and soon'went to London where they recorded their
September r 14 Fla. Tech. Here: sie Fi ert [debut album in 1976, We tomy ns elimi 8
, adi oe ai They bring dnp? Reet Le rock to Love Auditorium:on Saturday,
: Prieta a ; : | September 9 at 8:30. Tickets are $1. An added bonus: Your money: back if
La = ansoealeseeceer Sapa S dou't WEithe show eee EIEN was | a co
vs 53 ms

