7.

nbers enumerate broad responsibiliti¢s

10 see us
ctive role
ae past,
ng down
nation to

ies
in of the
collegiate

—

derations are thought of when spring

football practice is scheduled.

Much of the discussion in the ACIA.
has led to the Athletic Department's
revision of its Policy Book which,
according to Stroud, defines “‘standard
operating procedures."” ACIA member
and Professor of Economics Richard
Avinger describes this revision as
“filling in the gaps."

As S.P.C.A. Presi Dtnt |S
Commitee. memaces UP low / ”

fessor of
ne of the
‘to make
lines, we
tment to
bly

emic year
times and
mal joint
Commit-
:s. Stroud
ClA a‘‘a
ind means

tions the
ident in
Tr annual
ege retain
on Confer-
mpete on
: than in
developed
lances the
it against
: College,
that the
ates with-
; 4. the
Advisory
Financial

written
cruitment
iaff of the

thing the
has been

r by the
ifying the
ctices; 2.

students
‘WO major
mic consi-

The ACIA is composed of ten
members including three elected facul-
ty, three appointed students, and the
Vice-President for Academic Affairs,
the Vice-President of Development, the

. Dean of Students, and the Director of

Athletics.

One of the students on the ACIA,
Ann Clark, has enjoyed her experience
on the council but she feels like it
should ‘‘meet more often’’ because
“issues tend to be dropped or con-
fused.”

She also stated that there is ‘‘no
clearly defined function for the stu-
dents on the committee”’ and ‘‘there is
no sense of me reporting back (to any
students.)’’ She considers it necessary
to receive more feedback from stu-
dents. This desire was reiterated by
Stroud, ‘‘We would love to hear the
concerns of students.”

Admissions and Financial Aid

“Our committee does provide input
but not earthshaking input. I think it
has good potential as a channel...It is a
question of growing into the Constitu-
tion.”’

This assessment of Professor of
Biology and newly-elected chairman of
the Admissions and Financial Aid
Advisory Committee, David Grant,
takes into account a central element in
reviewing the work of the body, that of
time. The committee has existed for
less than two years under the recent
Constitution and, as Grant points, out,
is only beginning to develop a feeling
for its role and capabilities.

At the council's only meeting in
winter quarter of this year, there was
a one hour discussion of the Stuart

Scholarships, transfer students, ad-
missions figures, and the number of
women accepted. Council member Pro-
fessor of English J. Gill Holland
described it as ‘‘a good discussion with
no sharp disagreements.”’

But in spite of such feelings, there is
a wide divergence of opinion on the
issues the committee faces as well as on
the composition of the committee itself.

Sophomore member Martin Hunter
observed, ‘‘Our existence was a move
by the Administration to give an
appearance of student input when, in
fact, little or no input exists.”’

He stressed the necessity for either
an increase in the number of students
on the Advisory committee or ‘the
appointment of several students to the
Admissions Committee itself, which
does the actual selection. I also
question whether those on the Admis-
sions Committee and the Admissions
Staff should have membership on the
Advisory committee. It prevents any
really new input into the process.”’

Grant disagreed, stating that while
students have played a necessary and
responsible role on many such councils,
the addition of more students would
not necessarily strengthen input. ‘I
feel that two good student representa-
tives are adequate.”

On the question of overlapping
membership raised by Hunter, Grant,
who is a member of both, noted, ‘‘I
don’t see that this representation is a
drawback because the Admissions
Committee knows the problems of
processing and can better deal with
them.”

Hunter was also concerned with the
Christianity stipulation for Stuart
Scholars. “I question the extent to
which Davidson College publicly or
materially supports the work of the
Stuart Scholarships. I strongly feel
that they should not be restricted to
Christians.”’

A particular topic of concern was the
ratio of men and women within the
student body. Hunter called for ‘‘the
elimination of quotas’’ in female ac-
ceptances. Here, Grant asserted.
“There is nothing magical about ratios

Opinion

and numbers. I don’t see, given the
present rate of change, a major increase
in the number of women accepted here
soon, although eventually it will
change.” He elaborated that ‘although
the rate of change seems interminably
slow, there has been a great deal of
change within the past few years.” And
what about future change? ‘‘It is all a
matter of timing.”

Campus and Religious Life

The Constitution of Davidson Col-
lege states that the Advisory Council
on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL)
is advisory to the president in all
affecting the quality of campus life.’’

And as council member and Profes-
sor of Chemistry, Felix Carroll adds,
“There is very little that takes place on
campus, outside of purely academic
concerns or: intercollegiate athletics,
that does not effect campus or religious
life.”

The CCRL consists of the Dean of
Students, the President of the Student
Body, the President of the Y.M.C.A..,
seven faculty members, and eight
students with the Coordinator of
Student Activities and the Minister to
Students serving as advisory members.

The Council normally meets twice a
month but subcommittees often meet
more frequently. The-nine subcommit-
tees of the CCRL are: Christian
Commitment, College Union, Black
and International Experience, Beha-
vior in Dorms, Health Service, Patter-
son Court, Security, Freshman Hall,
and Women at Davidson.

When asked if the scope of the
Council was too wide, many seemed to
feel that the division of the CCRL into
subcommittees was sufficient to handle
the wide range of concerns. Council
member Glen Darbyshire '79 added
that when there is a ‘‘narrow focus you
lose a lot of the importance of your
decisions.”’

During the two years of its existence,
the bulk of the CCRL’s activities have
been concerned with Patterson Court.
Last year, the Council worked on
deciding which group would receive
the vacant house on Patterson Court,

eventually deciding on those who
wished to establish Rusk House.

This year, the CCRL’s activities
have been almost completely domina-
ted by the issue of self-selection.
Council member Phil Gladden ’78
recalls it as a time of ‘‘much tension.”’
Carroll, who served as the head of the
subcommittee on Patterson Court,
described it as ‘‘trying to create a
system that would be fair to everyone.”
The self-selection system recommended
by the CCRL went into operation this
year.

As a follow-up to this, the CCRL has
recommended the formation of a “Su-
pervisory Committee for Self-Selec-
tion” which will hear complaints from
freshmen or houses on violations of the
rules for self-selection. The committee
will be composed of five members--4
house presidents, 2 of which shall be
fraternity members, and one of the
Freshman Advisors. ‘

The real ‘‘test of it (CCRL) is coming
up”’ according to Darbyshire. After
having spent so much time on Patter-
son Court issues, the Council will now
move on to other areas.

Issues that will be coming up in the
near future include a ‘‘concrete investi-
gation on the quality of campus life and
Christian commitment’’ and campus
security, stated Chairman of the CCRL
and Dean of Students, Will H. Terry.

Despite being termed by Darbyshire
“the most active of the councils on
campus,” many, like council.member
Cathy Howard ’79 feel that the CCRL
has ‘‘a lot more potential than it is
showing now.’’ Darbyshire believes
that part of the problem is that the
Council is ‘‘not as efficient as it could
be.”

Darbyshire notes that the CCRL is
the ‘‘most important council as far as
issues are concerned.’’ Howard sees the
CCRL as a ‘‘sounding board for the
students.’’ Terry adds that the ‘‘coun-
cil provides the best forum for pulling
all elements of the campus together to
deal with problems and issues and,
hopefully, goals for improving the
quality of campus life.’’

Committees bogged by structure

By PAM CAMERRA

each Council member a more ettective voice.

Acting Editor

The Davidson College Advisory Councils have failed to meet
the goals set out for them in the 1976 College Constitution.
Whereas the Councils were designed to guarantee the
broad-based input into the administrative policy-making, the
Councils have proven to be only sporadically effective in
affording students and faculty the oppertunity to influence
decisions-which affect College policy.

The first problem is a basic one: some of the Councils have
simply failed to attend to their duties. The Council on
Admissions and Financial Aid has met only once this year.

Second, the structure of the Councils hinders meaningful
input from their members. The chairman of each Council holds a
near-monopoly on the information available to the Council. It is
deceptive to say that all members of any Council are co-equal in
the decision-making process when the Council meets so
irregularly and only the chairman has access to all the
information. :

Third, the scope of responsibilty of at least one of the
Councils is too broad. Matters of Finance, Personnel, and
Development should not be gathered under one Council. It is
foolish to think that a single Council which meets infrequently
can possibly keep track of so vast and complex an urea. The
1976 Constitution implemented a separation of financial/deve-

lopment and personnel concerns within the realm of the
aamunistration and those concerns should be divided and placed

under the auspices of separate Advisory. Councils.

Revision of the Councils’ structure and clarification of their
responsibilities is essential. The Councils must meet more
frequently, ideally two or three times a term. More frequent
meétings in which the chairman shares his information will give

Although Council members might argue that meeting more
often would drain their time, the governance of the College
community is a serious responsibility and an important aspect
of a college education. Decisions concerning the makeup of the
student. body and faculty and the allocation of the budget, for
example, affect all students and faculty. Part of the educational
process is learning to deal with people and becoming aware of
and taking an active role in the decision-making process of the
community.

Because its concerns are more pressing, the Advisory Council
on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) has done a commendable
job this year. they have met more frequently than the other
Councils and have taken the responsibility to act in matters
concerning Patterson court and self-selection. The CCRL is
moving well in the direction of assuming the active role that is
necessary for all the Advisory Councils.

The Administration has always stressed that it values
student and faculty participation and seeks to train leaders for
the larger community. Students are paying for their education
and have a right to make recommenations on decisions which
affect them; the faculty should want to influence the
environment in which they teach. Both students and faculty
deserve an effective channel through which to air their
suggestions.

Through the Advisory Councils the students and faculty can
have input into decsion on admissions, the budget, intercolle-
giate athletics, and other important matters. These Councils
could serve as key links between the college community and the
Board of Trustees. It is time tha we exert pressure on
the Councils and push them into a position of prominence in
Davidson's policy-making process. ~
