February 2.1978 . ,

ete

By BILL PEEPLES
Staff Writer

Former Senator Sam Ervin entered
the 900 Room last Friday afternoon,
shook& hands with C. Shaw Smith,
poured himself a cup of coffee, and sat
down in front of the stage to confront
an assemblage of over a hundred
students.

In appearance, he was much the
same man that graced national tele-
vision and the cover of Time magazine
a few years ago, perhaps a little older,
yet younger than his seventy-eight
years might indicate.

But beneath the skin, he was much
more at ease. Gone were the days of
senatorial debate. Gone were the days
of Watergate and a torn nation. The
man was just what he should be, a
retired, venerable statesman free to
discuss his life of dedicated public
service. And the audience was eager
to hear what were indeed words of
wisdom.

Ervin began the discussion with
warm words of praise for his former
colleague, Hubert Humphrey. The
remainder cannot be described; it
would be an injustice to do so.
Instead, the material that follows
includes quotes and paraphrased
statements made by Senator Sam.

On Bert Lance: ‘‘If I had any
money, I wouldn’t want to put it in
the bank like Bert Lance’s.'’ The
senator said he admired President
Carter’s sticking by the former bud-
get director.

On Jimmy Carter’s first year as
President: ‘‘His intentions have been
the best in the world, and I admire his
openness.’’ As for the President's

[a

Send $1.00 with

TO YOUR VALENTINE
FROM VALENTINE

addressed Valentine for carefully timed
ee, mailing with beautiful personalized
message from America’s “Heartland.”
Valentines, Trade Winds Lodge-NP321 4,
Valentine, Nebraska 69201

mistakes, ‘‘experience in office makes
a president."’

He should not have become ‘‘imme,
diately active in such matters as the )

Panama Canal and ERA, which I
believe to be second in importance."
Carter did the right thing in relieving
Mr. Morrison as a D.A.

Proper U.S. role in South Africa:
We should deal more with domestic
affairs, rather than intervening in the
affairs of other nations. ‘‘I remember
a story my grandfather once told me.
He was returning home one evening,
when he heard a woman’s screams
coming from a familiar farm house.
Curious, he entered the house only to
find a friend beating his wife. He said,
‘Henry, you ought to be ashamed.’
The man’s wife picked up an iron
skillet beside the hearth and replied,
‘If you don't get out of here, I'm
going to hit you with this thing. If
Henry wants to beat me, that’s his
business and none of your’n.’ I guess
that's what we ought to do with these
foreign nations: leave them alone.”’

On the Democratic Party: One

ought to make decisions using one’s |

“God-given faculties,’ not necessar-
ily according to party policy, for
“truth will eventually emerge out of
difference of opinion.’’ As for the
current North Carolina senate race, ‘'I
don't endorse particular candidates. |
endorse the whole Democratic tic-
ket.’

On Jesse Helms and the two-party
system’: ‘‘I hope the Republican
Party will continue to be a major
political party. I’m a firm believer in
the two-party system. We need it for
our government to work. Personally,

each — stamped,'r

I'm very fond of Senator Helms, for I
can disagree with him without being
disagreeable. I'm a friend of most all
Republicans except on election day.”

Why Andy Young has kept quiet
recently: ‘‘He probably heard the old
adage that a man hardly ever regrets
saying too little."’

Executive terms: ‘‘Governors
should not be able to run for
re-election. They'll. spend too much
time running for a second term, and
so will their appointees; and not
enough time being statesmen. I also
think we should have a one shot
presidency. I think we’d be much
better off. Power corrupts.”

On labor unions: ‘‘Every man
ought to have the freedom of joining
or not joining a union. I don't believe
in compulsive unionism. I told George
Meany that if the unions, just like

photographs by david litaker

senator Sam’s talk ripples through

audience

churches, can’t get their members by
persuasion, they ought to leave
people alone. THey ought to worry
about themselves and stay out of
politics.”

he current volunteer army and
national defense: ““The volunteer ar-
my is a cop-out for politicians that
want support from young men who
are opposed to the draft. Every
able-bodied individual ought to have
to serve, regardless of most circum-
stances, for a specific time, in
addition to maintaining a volunteer
service.

Retirement age for the armed
services ought to be a lot more than
twenty years,’’ for military retirement *
and ‘‘Social Security are going to
become our biggest financial burden.”’
Hyman Rickover ‘‘Has a lot of power

[See SAM, page 12]

... The U.S. Government Awards the Ram-Jet Supercharger Patent No. 3118435. And dual
patents pending

NOW! BETWEEN 1107 /
MORE MILES PER
GALLON FOR YOUR CAR

New Ram-Jet Actually “Jet Assists” Your Car

lEngine. .. Makes t Burn Up To 15 Gallons Of Air
For Every Gallon Of Gas... And Gives You As Much
As 15% More Clean Power! Jet Like Acceleration!

We believe Ram-Jet is the most exciting piece of high-performance
automotive equipment since the V8 Yet it weighs only a few ounces.
Installs in a couple of minutes (No special tools or training needed ¥
won't even get your hands greasy). Costs less than a tankful of gas. “Si
And saves you so much gas, it's like getting up to one gation in

every ten FREE!

The brainchild of Ed Aimquist, internationally famous automotive
engineer and the “Thomas Edison of high-performance accessories”
The Ram-Jet took over 20 years to develop and perfect
How does it work?

Just as a jet engine requires a certain supply of air to operate
so does the gasoline combustion engine in your car. And it’s the
carburetor that mixes this air with fuel to fire the cylinders and
make your car go. The problem is that carburetors were invented
over 50 years ago when gas was plentiful and cheap and air
pollution wasn't even talked about. The carburetor hasn't
changed much since then: It's still a big compromise! It only
works perfectly on those rare occasions when all driving
conditions are perfect. (Which averages only a couple of
minutes at the most out of every driving hour.) Your
carburetor just can not efficiently adjust itself to your
stop-and-go driving, sudden bursts of speed; or to
put it in technical terms those many occasions
when your engine is opetating under 0-10" -
high-load conditions. When this crucial mixture
of air and gas is not right on the money,
the result is a loss of power with a
lot more gas being burned than is really

necessary!

SIMPLE INSTRUCTIONS
Easy instructions show

you how to install in just a
few minutes. No special
tools. No training needed.
Fits all cars and trucks.

Now, at last, the Ram-Jet to the rescue!
ft solves both problems at once.

It brings your 50-year-old-carburetor
design into the Jet Age

1) It works like a “‘mini-computer’’ to automati-
cally adjust the air/gas mixture to your every
driving need. It thus steps up gas moieculariza-
tion reducing the over-rich mixture before it
becomes wasteful. Just as a jet engine sucks air
into it the Ram-Jet automatically and safely
jets air into the gas mixture the very split second
your driving conditions require it.

2) It captures the polluted air that would ordi-
narily be fed back into your engine and re-en-
ergizes it into a “Jet Stream” that is once again)
ignited into useful clean power instead of clog
ging up your engine and making it hesitate and
Stall and waste gasoline and power.

Thousands of similar devices sold in Europe for
more than $20 a piece. The Ram-Jet Super
charger is now available to you for just $14.95
Because of a special arrangement, it comes ta
you direct (no middlemen) from the inventor
manufacturer himself, Mr. Ed Almquist

FREE
DOUBLE YOUR
GAS MILEAGE
REPORT and

MILES PER GALLONS <¢

WHAT DO PEOPLE SAY ABOUT THE RAM-JET
SUPERCHARGER?
An airline pilot writes

“t have a Ram-Jet. And
"Suddenty my little six

80 do many of my pa-

cylinder engine seems rishioners. We found
CALCULATOR j ; on to have the power ofan out that we average
eight it it saves f t
poe enecenanwnee= MAIL THIS NO-RISK COUPON TODAY! ----------~----— ihe Wieseacwitaurc Thee oon 2 t0'6 more mites

per gallon with much
little

amazing!” —
Phitip Shade,
Plymouth, Conn

Ram-Jet is more engine pep and
cceeren ie -

he Rev. P. Mick

Consumer Cooperative Service Dept.

918 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois 60605

Harvey, illinois
Please rush me the following on your 90-day money back guarantee

' 1

q '

f '

" '

Hl '

H '

1 (1 RAM-JET $14.95 [j 2 RAM-JETS $25.95 1 | GREATEST GUARANTEE IN AUTOMOTIVE
{ Enclose 75¢-for handling & postage in cash, check or money order. | | HISTORY: THE 100,000 MILE fo MONEY
H 4 é Anytime within the next
4 Truck or Car (year & model) 1. —— ——_.._____ 1 | 100,000 miles you put on your car, if you don’t
H 1] think the Ram-Jet Supercharger is the best
H ae~ Ag eta a r] J investment you've ever made,
' 2 f etinwly yy i oe pie ee Siti EET
> ps = ‘ L.refung, No questions asked. (And don't
retain ed > —_— -- 5 = 77 rorget™ With the Ram-Jet turning poitutic.7 itt
. - Address i | free power instead of turning it back into your
H _ - -— ee a | engine, it’s no tell how many extra power-
5: City. State z ' packed miles you'll be able to log on your

-£1p - § | engine before it's ready for the Rink heanh

Lie mene nennnmanaccsonnsancan Olek 4

