Private

By HARRY GREYARD
Senior Editor

The battle to increase tuition credit for North
Carolina students enrolled in Private schools and
universities is expected to start when the state
legislature convenes in January. The private schools,
including Davidson, want the aid increased from an
average of $600 per student to $800 by 1980-81.

Last week, The Davidsonian examined the history of
the tuition credit program. In this week's concluding
installation of the article, private school leaders express
their opinions.

Any request by the private schools must be screened
by the Board of Governors of the University of North
Carolina—the group that oversees the operation of the

News analysis: Part I

At a meeting in November, the UNC Board
unanimously declined to endorse the private school’s
proposal. However, any action by the UNC Board is
not final.

Next, the request goes before the Advisory Budget
Commission (ABC) of North Carolina. That body
suggests the fiscal budget for the state. Both the
private and state schools have already sent letters,
submitting their respective positions, to Governor Jim

*Hunt, who is the director of the commission.

The ABC’s recommendation then goes to the
legislature which makes the final decision. However,
the legislature is under no obligation to accept a
recommendation from any group.

An opening salvo in the battle was fired 4 in November

scnools fight forincreased tuition credit

vice-president of the.state system accused the private
schools of trying to take a “free lunch.” In discussing
the reasons for UNC board's actions, vice-president
John Sanders was quoted as saying, “Unlike our
friends in the private sector, we believe there is no such
thing as a free lun

During an interview, Davidson College President
Samuel Spencer said private schools are not seeking a
free lunch. ‘‘The private schools are asking for aid to
students rather than aid to the

“TI think (the UNC action) regfresents a sort of

rigidity that does not recognize the importance of aid to
private college students in North Carolina.”

Spencer’s comments illustrate the importance that
private school leaders attach to the grants. Speaking

entire public university system.

Volume LXVIII, Number ELEVEN

when the UNC board refused to endorse the proposal. A

Davidson College, Davidson,

N.C. 28036

(see Without, page 2)

December 15, 1978

THE CAMPUS. WIDE Christmas Party iusteniael night featured a visit by Santa

Clause, much to these kids’ delight.

(Parks Snead)

Erwin wins landslide victory

By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

Davidson students selected Charles Erwin as
editor of The Davidsonian in the Tuesday
elections.

Erwin, a junior, outpolled Joe Ferraro by a
510-120 margin.

Ferraro, who had not learned of the final tally
until reached by The Davidsonian, commented,
“The final results show that Davidson students are
secure with the, things they have; it shows their
conservative nature.” ss

Ferraro's campaign emphasized his innovations
and fresh approach to journalism over the
experience of Erwin, who is presently news editor.

_ Erwin,commented, “I was extrerfiely impressed
by the enthusiasm of my opponent, and would
encourage him to: do as much work for the paper as
he would like. Many of-his ideas’were good." ~

Erwin discussed : some of his own ideas which he

a

- plans to effect when he takes over the editorship of
the paper following the Christmas break.

“IT want to straighten out the whole production
of the paper so that working for the Davidsonian
can be more than an exercise in frustration. I want
to improve our credibility .

“Obviously, I cannot do these things alone,”
Erwin added. ‘‘I’m encouraged that so many of the
present staff members have expressed an interest
in continuing to work for the paper. Without them,
nothing could be improved.”’

Erwin also pointed out that many positions will
be available on the paper, and urged any student
who wishes to contribute his time or talent to
The Davidsonian to contact him: .-

. “The ‘welcome mat’ is out,” he remarked.

Erwin will use the first week following the break
to appoint a staff, get organized and make
changes.

The next issue of The Dévidisnion will appear
January 18.

Piedmont

increases

checking charges

By DONALD CALDWELL
Asst. News Editor
Students expressed dismay
last Friday as Piedmont Bank
and Trust Company, the only
bank in town, announced a
major rate increase for its
checking account customers.
The announcement came in
the form of a letter in this
month’s bank statement.
Although the maintenance
fee will remain at $1.00 per
month, check processing will go
up from $.11 to $.20 per check.

Also, the bank is switching
from a $100 minimum balance
for free checking to a $600
average balance, the latter re-
presenting the average of daily
balances in the account. This
average balance is usually 2 to
2% times greater than the
minimum balance.

Piedmont plans to give its
customers an 5 and one-half
annual credit for the average
balance to offset monthly
charges.

“As I see it, from now on
you’re going to have to pay a
very high average monthly
checking fee,’’ commented sop-
homore Vincent Long.

“Since I already have another
in-state account I don’t see any
pint in keeping one at Pied-
mont open any longer consider-
ing the new increase.” ’

Junior Charlie Bridges, an
Economics major, expressed
mixed emotion over the rate
hike.

“On one level I’m pretty
upset. Like anyone else, I want
to have all the services possible
at the least cost.,Also, there are
very few college students who
could keep a $200 balance for
any length of time.”

“But. on another level I can

sympathize with them. Most of

us write a large number of
checks, a lot of them in small
amounts.”

Bridges continued, .““This. is
probably a tough time for banks
considering the amount of go-
vernment regulation and tight

monetary policy. I knew First
Union and Wachovia, for exam-
ple, raised their minimum bal-
ance for free checking to $200
last year. One economics pro-
fessor told me that many banks
will be forced either to close or
to merge within the next decade

(see Bank, page 3)
‘Hobart’s’
By DENNIS McLAWHORN
News Editor

Barring unforeseen circum-
stances, Hobart’s Park should -
make its deput today, according
to Amanda Hal, one of the
editors of the new campus
magazine.

The publication was original-
ly scheduled for release on
Wednesday, but printing prob-
lems delayed the completion by
one day.

Hall expressed satisfaction
over the results of the staff’s
efforts.

She commented, “‘We feel
that we have met our goal that
we set in the spring, to offer a
magazine that has variety,
something of interest to every-
one on campus.”

Hall said the editors ‘‘heavily
stressed balancing each depart-
ment.”

As a result, the editors “held
somé things” to promote this
balance.

Hall said future i issues, how-

will be the third week of
January,” she added. wih

M¥UCILID Gea™ st) ee te ow
