—8

...College closes WDA V’s box

(continued from page 1)

through ‘the Activities Tax
— (ATC).
” he remarked

fa thot “our sccounting system
is with the College’s.”” He said
any issuance of money paid by
the College registers with the
WDAV eccount. .

“The Post Office box was
paid last year out of the $8000
by a College check along with
other post office expenses.

“If it was paid out of Activi-
ties Tax Council money €n the
name of the station, the Admi-
nistration doesn’t have the

Name
Address

City/State

: ? ‘ ; ‘
EOL . . .

BUILD YOUR OWN

|
BIG SCREEN.COLOR TV

Sporting Events Are An Experience As Exciting As Being There!

They Were Meant To Be Seen! '

Pong And Other Video Games Are More Exiting Than Ever! — eras
Can Be Used With Video Tope Playback Equipment! a)

right to close it down.” ~—

Thompeon said the College
closed the box “behind our
back,” and added “I think it’s
pretty low down.”

Roberts said the failure to
give the radio station prior
notice of the boz’s closing was
“a matter of timing.”

The problem came up on a
Friday afternoon, she said.

“It didn’t occur to me thet
there would be any problem.”

Lovell minimized the impor-
tance of the mailbox closing,
“This is such a petty matter; it
doesn’t amount to a hill of

It’s Like Having a “Movie Theater” in Your Home!
AMAZING $90.00 PROJECTOR KIT now only $29.95

Imagine inviting friends to see TV Specials, Movies, Sports, on your Theater Size TV! It’s like viewing on a movie
- almost makes you feel like you're in the action! Can also
be used outdoors, converting your back yard into an open-air Outdoor Theater! This new invention, gives sharp
brilliant TV reception comparable to commercial projector systems costing $2,500 or more. Absolutely SAFE to
‘use. No electrical or mechanical connections to TV. Removes in seconds for regular size viewing. No special aerial
required. Projects up to 5 x 6 foot pictures (7% Ft. diagonal) on wall or ecreen, even in the smallest roomsor
apartments. Best of ali, this amazing Projector is really simple and inexpensive to build yourself. Even a 12-year old
can do it quickly. Enclosed Kit comes complete with unbreakable lifetime guaranteed Precision Lens System,
11” x 17” illustrated Plans and Specifications.and EASY ASSEMBLY instructions. Ail you supply is only some
cardboard or wood for the simple cabinet. This Projector can be used with ANY Portable TV set 7” to 25”, and will
enlarge pictures in either Color or Black & White. If you wish, here's an easy way to make money in your sparetime.
Simply assemble and sell these TV Projectors to your friends, neighbors, relatives, etc. Everyone with a

Set will gladly pay you up to $90.00 for each Projector you build. Make up to $70.00 on each easy sale. Your erst,
one kit - $29.95, two kits - $49.95, - five kits - $99.95.

SALES MARKETING Dept. NP-7

P.O. Box 2646
Merced, California 95340

Enclosed is $

screen! Everything takes on a whole new dimension .

for

ine Vavidsonian

beans.’’

The SGA is considering a
resolution calling for the resto-
ration of the mailbox to the
station, according to SGA Pre-
sident Broce Brown.

“We would've passed a reso-

lution (at the Tuesday night —

meeting,)”” stated Brown, but

Movies Are Seen The Way

(offer expires 9/1/78

Postpaid complete TV PROJECTOR KITS *

September 15, 1978

Take out

orders
892-8686,
Mon.-Wed. 11-3, 5-8
Thurs.-Sat. 11-3, 5-12
Sun. 12-3, 5-10

Happy Hours:
Thurs & Fri nights
8:30-10 PM

, “Best food east of Tulsa”

Ld

a eee

Simulated TV Reception

