Checking up on the Coalition

Bill Peeples

In the September 28 issue of The
Davidsonian, Elliott Hipp stated, on be-
half of the Coalition for Better Educa-
tion, that ‘‘one is justified in questioning
whether the scale of Davidson’s involve-
ment in football can be defended in light
of other financial needs which are vital to
educational quality.”

As acknowledged by Coach Ed Farrell
and numerous members of the football
team, the goals of the Coalition are no
great misfortune to the football program
as a whole. However, the group’s inac-
curacies and false accusations, as evi-
denced by last week’s article, are distur-
bing.

These inaccuracies in reporting must
be corrected. Mr. Hipp’s claim that re-
cruiting expenses for the football pro-
gram mounted to $40,000 last year is not
true. Recruiting expenditures were
$25,000, or $15,000 less than claimed

(Update, April 1979).

The Coalition quotes Southwestern
University’s ex-athletic director as pla-
cing the school’s entire football. budget
at $24,500. How could such a small
budget be possible when Southwestern
spent over $6,000 on its trip for the
September 15 game against Davidson?
A partial explanation is that Southwes-
tern’s coaching ‘staff is paid not by the
athletic program, but by the admissions
office of the Memphis school.

fn answer to one of Mr. Hipp’s ques-
tions, the admissions department at
Davidson spends nothing on football re-
cruiting. Instead, the football staff often
interviews and recruits prospective stu-
dents who have no interest in playing
football at Davidson.

The Coalition claims that football
recruits are brought to Davidson for
non-academic reasons. No matter. what
the reasons for coming to Davidson,

each football prospect must meet the .

stringent criteria established by the ad-
missions office, same as a non-athlete.

A notable insinuation made here by
the Coalition is that football players’

i contribution to Davidson is on
Richardson Field. Evidence to refute
this assumption would fill volumes. For
example, one recent Wildcat captain is
currently in law school, another in
medical school. A key starter for the
Davidson offense has already been ac-
. cepted for next year’s med school class.
The list could go on and on. . .

How does a small liberal arts college
justify competing in football against
Division I-AA schools much larger than
Davidson, the group wants to know?
With a 3-1 opening record and top ten
status, the Wildcat grid-iron can not
only compete but

The Coalition opposes fielding a large
team that generates large travel expen-
ses for away games. Note that only two--
thirds of the team attends road games.
Also, team size has been reduced accor-
ding to Division I-AA regulations, so fe-
wer players than ever are allowed to tra-
vel.

Discrimination is practiced in the
awarding of financial aid to football
players, the group charges. However,
football scholarships, all based on finan-
cial need, come from the Wildcat Chib.
The Wildcat Club réceives these funds
from alumni and other contributors who

earmark their gifts for athletic assis -

tance, primarily football scholarships.
Therefore, these funds cannot be re-
routed to the-academic sector. Also, the
Wildcat Club scholarships remove a.
monetary burden from the regular
program for financial aid provided by the
admissions office, since those who quali-

for Wildcat Club: scholarships would
Guy forth odin anil bee

available to non-athletes.

The Coalition charges that football
players are accorded special privileges,
among them unlimited food from the col-
lege dining service. This statement im-
plies year-round service, while in reality

_these meals are for pre-season practice

only, long before —. houses begin
serving.

Another alleged privilege is ‘the subsi-
dization of the Pop Films program. Each
Friday night before a home game,’ the
football team’ gathers for a movie in
Perkins Auditorium. The purpose of
this group showing is twofold: steer
team members away from Friday night
revelries that would affect their play the
next day; assemble as a team to boost
morale. Understandably, mandatory at-
tendance is a sufferance for many team
members, not a special privilege. ‘

From the economic standpoint, there
is no subsidization of Pop Films. Until
recently, the football team viewed out-
dated ““B”’ movies with a maximum bud-
get of '$250 per film. By sharing the cost
of fall showings, the Pop Films program
and the football program are able to pre-
sent films of both higher quality and re-
duced price to both groups. This practice
is not a subsidy and is beneficial to both
the team and the student body at large.

The Coalition for Better Education
raises many worthwhile questions about
budget priorities, but why does it single
out football as its whipping boy while
there are other potential inconsistencies
in the college’s spending? The Coali-
tion’s ends may be noble and necessary,
but its means are questionable when un-
ethical half-truths serve as its momen-
tum. In short, this group should clean
up its act. .

Last week's lithograph was by senior
‘Art major Penny Keels.

Keep PIRG at Davidson

Susan Marynowski

PIRG was founded in 1969, based on
the ideals of Ralph Nader; it ispresent in
25 states today. The Davidson chapter .
was founded in 1973 and is one of the
oldest chapters in North Carolina.

To view problems and seek sclutions
on a broad level is one important
function if PIRG's state-wide structure.
A campus chapter cannot exist without
being a part of the state-wide organiza-
tion; six campuses working together
have a much greater impact than six
separate campuses.

Students active in PIRG address
problems that affect the whole state, and
to this end, employ four full-time staff
members to coordinate activities be-
tween campuses, to attend.meetings and
hearings that students are unable to
attend, and to coordinate NC PIRG with

Student Action _

. Rick Johnson

“If a student doesn’t go to wivenied

ROTC, the basic course I think may well |

be of advantage to him,” said Spencer,

‘first of all in giving him some first hand

knowledge about the military in a world
where military power is a reality.”

“As far as it (ROTC) being compul-
sory for the first two years,’’ he
continued, “‘if this is necessary to
preserve that option (to take advanced
ROTC), then I think it’s worth the
price.’

Just ten years ago these quotes
appeared on the front page of The
Davidsonian on April 4,°1969. The
headline read, ‘‘President Defends Com-
pulsory ROTC.” But about one month
later, because of continued student
protest, the faculty and trustees voted to
drop the two years of ROTC training as a
requirement for graduation.

Many alumni returning to Davidson
this weekend were students at that time,
and are proud that because of their hard
work to change the policy, students are
no longer required to take ROTC.

. In the late sixties, Davidson College
had mandatory chapel attendance, a
curfew on weekends, and area exams in
addition to area - Thanks to
students who felt these rules were
unjust, they are no longer a ‘burden tous
today. -

(Tica nee inidtik cabeetetumambiil ouch
as coeducation, self-scheduled. exams
and liberal dormitory regulations did not
just evolve. These improvements are
part of College because stu-
dents fought to have them incorporated
inte college policy.

I think our predecessors might be

disappointed in our peer of the past.
few years. We lost an outstanding
Political Science professor (Dr. William
Linden) because he was Jewish. He
_ obviously didn't have a ‘‘Christian
-commitment”’ that the administration
required of all professors. ;

Last year the campus radio station
was taken away from the students while
most of us sat back and watched. The
administration said they could make
more money if the station was out of
student control. Should. we permit the
administration to take away student-run
organizations without RU ee,

This year one of Davidson's finest
professors is denied tenure, and no

“reason is being given. We sit in Dr.
Koller’s classes every day and become
well acquainted with him and his
teaching ability, yet those who decidced

against his tenure hardly know him at .

all.
We have lost Dr. Linden and our radio

station, and we will lose Dr. Koller if -

nothing is done to help him. The
students of. Davidson College are its
most important asset. Since our tuition
money pays the salaries of the adminis-

most affected by. their decisions, we

deserve an active role in the: —— -
pape agg oe I ons and

Rich Johnson is.@ senior who was JYA

last year.

LOU MHOM, Sth):

other state and national a

The staff is hired by the State Board
of Directors which is composed of
student representatives from each of the
member campuses. The staff's experi-
ence and expertise aids students in
presenting press releases, preparing
testimony for hearings, drafting legisla-
tion, lobbying, and editing and finalizing
publications.

The staff provides a continuity in
PIRG over breaks, between school
years, and when active students gradu-
ate, insuring that projects do not suffer
or become abandoned when exams or
vacations come along.

To be a part of this state-wide
structure, each chapter. must contribute
to the unavoidable costs involved. To
accomplish this, students at member
schools choose to pay a nominal fee of

four dollars per year, with the under-

standing that those not wishing to pay

If-a majority of studente agree to this
system, the rights of the opposing
minority are protected. Students find
that this system is often more democra-

tic than funding for organizations

through mandatory student activity
fees.

‘The money from each of the campuses
is then pooled at the state level where it
is under control of the State Board of
Directors. The money goes toward
support of the local chapters, staff
salaries, office expenses, and costs of
publications, all controlled and voted
upon by the students on the Board of

The state-wide structure and staff are
the most valuable aspects of NC PIRG.
These strong points allow PIRG to be
successful where other student groups
fail. PIRG works toward education of
the public and constructive social
change, etsemnpting. te: Snes ie weer
lying conditions at the root of many of
society's ills.

In PIRG’s onueng. research and

‘advocacy work there is not time for

She Device mtaeeds. K'star Keon
De you wens to bea part of NCPIRG? A
eee

