Blue skies
Over ~

Davidson

Benjamin Garrett

I was standing in line with the other
entering graduate students awaiting a
turn to register for fall classes. I
clutched my computer course registra-
tion cards and prayed that this time
there would be no foul-ups and that I
would get the courses I wanted. Outside,
the weather was beautiful, and I wished
I could dispense with this unpleasant
chore and go play tennis instead. I knew
that by the time I got to the harried clerk
at the front of the line, she would be
snappish and altogether worn out by the
several days of registration activities.

I wished I could be back at dear old
Davidson College, where the line was

never more than several students deep -

and the secretaries cheerfully called the
students by name. At Davidson College,
I recalled as I waited to register for
graduate school in the fall of 1971,
registration was always easy.

During the past eight years, signifi-
cant changes have taken place at
Davidson, one horrible example being
the present problems with course regis-
tration. Upon returning this year, I can
see many differences between the David-
son College I knew as a member of the
class of 1970 and the Davidson College of
today.

My class spent half our undergraduate
careers under the semester system and
half under the new term system. For
those of you wrestling with the 1978-79
academic year, perhaps you should look
back to what changes were brought
about when the term system was
implemented and to what Davidson was
like academically prior to the inaugura-
tion of the recommendations of the Blue
Sky Committe.

The Blue Sky Committee was estab-
lished in part to help deal with what had
been labelled in 1966 by a group of
educators from the Southern Association
of Colleges and Schools as a dull and
unimaginative program at Davidson. In
the 1968-69 academic year, a revamped
curriculum was put into effect.

The major disappointment to me has
been to see what has happened to course
registration. It has degenerated to some
sort of computer roulette, comparable in
effectiveness to the tragic and idiotic
draft lottery of the early 1970’s. The
registration procedures I remember were .
quite simple. I did have trouble getting
some courses, particularly when I want-
ed a particular instructor.

But the situation was never compar-
able to what it is now. During the four
years I was enrolled, I dropped. one
course and added one. I also recall that
there was a fee of one dollar for each
change.

The magnitude of the current problem
with course registration can be gauged
by the November 30, 1978, memoran-
dum from the Vice President for Aca-
demic Affairs, outlining a subcommittee
of the Eductional Policy Committee on
enrollment problems. The memo in-
cludes a sentence that stretches to over
120 words as it enumerates wae nay
questions to be investigated.

I wish I knew the solutions to the

future of Davidson College. Outside of
this, I believe the changes I have seen at
Davidson represent vast improvements, .
especially in the areas of academics and
social life. x

Dr. Garrett is. Visiting Professor oO,
Chemistry. 4 Se

The Watchman’s Column

A place to bring your disbelief

The Davidsonian is presently engaged
in a battle to restore its credibility. We
need the help of every student, every
professor, and every administrator to do
this and we make no bones about asking
for your help.

The. history of this newspaper is
marked by distinction, as witnessed by
these paragraphs from the 1966 Estrin
and Sanderson textbook, Freedom and
Censorship of the College Press:

‘Probably the most distinguished
service the campus press has rendered
over the past ten years has been in the

field of civil rights.

“The Davidsonian at Davidson Col-
lege in North Carolina has often spoken
for reason and understanding in racial

matters. The newspaper’s handling of .

the issue is credited with having had
considerable influence on the decision of
the Board of Trustees to lift racial
barriers to enrollment.’’

\ We believe that The Davidsonian can
regain its excellence, and that if it once

spoke with reason, it can at least now act —

with reason.
* Well, what do we want our readers to
do?

First of all, we'd like you to watch for
factual error. We're realistic enough to
accept the fact that no matter how hard

we work errors are still going to crop up.

Instead of getting defensive. and
blaming the errors on somebody else, if
you'll tell us what you think is wrong,
we'll send a reporter to check it out.

And if it turns out you're right about
us being wrong, we'll print a note to that
effect in a ‘‘Corrections and -Clarifica-
tions’ column in the news section. .

If our readers know we care about
} getting the facts straight, we believe our
credibility will improve in short order.

But we also realize that many times

the facts in a story can be perfectly
accurate, and the story itself still be
lacking.

Writing a good story is more than
listing a few good facts; it’s a matter of
compiling a great many facts, many of
which will not be used in the final story,

_ then culling those which are not particu-

larly important and going back to find
even more which are.

And even once that’s done the story
can still be bad if the tone is bad and it
smacks of bias.

So in addition to telling us when you
think our facts are wrong, we'd also like
to hear from you when you think we

mishandled a story or perhaps didn’t

even cover a story that you felt was more
important than many we did run, and
that’s what this column is about.

For the next few weeks, we're going to
court our critics and try to find out what
they have to say about us. We'll be
asking several people to write a column,
which will appear in this space, criticiz-

_ ing the previous week's paper.

We hope to learn a good many things

' from this, and look forward to the

experience, but at the same time we
realize that there are many other

problems on campus more pressing than —
the quality of The Davidsonian and that,

as a good’ newspaper, we really can’t
afford to take up our Op Ed space with
ourselves every week.

So after a few weeks of running the
column, we would hope that anyone with
a serious gripe about one of our issues
would take the time to contact a staff
member about writing a Watchman’s
Column for the next week. :

We on The Davidsonian have a lot to
learn from you. Please help us.

— SERGEY AS, 10s;

Plains

Bil Peeples rl

Once I discovered the whereabouts of
Plains, Georgia, I swore I would never
go there. As is often the case, I had to
eat my words a few weeks ago. Fs

Returning home to Valdosta, Georgia,
from Columbus, I went through Plains
on a bum steer from a gas pump
attendant.

Had he noticed my license plate was
not from a state north of the Virginia
line, he may have thought twice. Ain’t
nobody but Yankees in Plains these

there very often. Reports say his
hemorrhoids hurt too much.
Coming into Plains on U.S. 280, I

' luckily noticed the gas gauge had

dropped below empty. Surely there will
be a Seven-Eleven with a self-service
pump, I thought.

Alas, the only place in town was Billy -
Carter’s famed station. That guy has
quite a monopoly going. At seventy-
three cents a gallon, I bought only a
dollar’s worth. Hopefully there would be
another place down the road.

I desperately needed change for the
pay phone, as I needed to notify:
someone that I would be late for an
appointment.

Billy wouldn’t give me any change. He
had his arms around an old couple from
Michigan. They were busy having their
picture made in front of a VW bug with
“Billy Beer” signs all over it.

The good ole boys drinking beer inside
offered no help, either. They were
engrossed in the Atlanta-Dallas NFL
playoff game.

The score was tied twenty-all with
were closed. I really couldn’t blame him.
They would take my gas money but
wouldn't give me change for'a call. The
Falcons just do not get hot every season.

I still needed change for Ma Bell, and
in Plains at 6:30:pm most places have
closed up shop. Hugh Carter’s antique
store across the street still had its.lights
on, so I figured I had better check it out.

The stress of a long day of trading to
northern tourists was written all over
Hugh’s face. Too many picture post-
cards, bags of peanuts, and second-hand
antiques from Sears had-taken their toll.

Hugh is all right, though. When I
asked him to change a five, he wanted to
know why. After all, it was a half hour
past closing time.

Once.I spat out an explanation, the
junque dealer sprang to the rescue.
“What area code ya callin’, boy?’’ I told
him 912.

“Same as ours. Come back here in the
back an’ ya can use the WATS line,”
said the President’s cousin. That was an
offer I couldn’t refuse.

My troubles were not over yet. The
house I was calling is on a party line.
Several other rural homes share the same
phone line, and it was busy. Finally I got
through

I wish I'd gone to Hugh's place first
and skipped the gas station.

I don’t think the person I was calling
believed my whereabouts the first time

» around, as I had to repeat my tale.

Bill Peeples, a native of Valdosta,
Ga., is Senior Features Editor for The
Davidsonian. He will be writing a weekly —
column for the opinion page. |
