2—The Davidsonian—January 26, 1979 |

News at a Glance

Davidison’s long-swaited Medical Center opened its doors to
patients for the first time lest Thureday, January 18.

The medical center will serve only townspeople and is part of the
College's plan to keep two full-time doctors in the community..

The opening followed the rough completion of the building in
early January, and the movement of equipment and supplice into
the building on Wednesday, January 17. Still lacking are some
finishing details such ap trim fixtures, outside walks, a lawn, and a

The staff, which has been working out of the Manse on Concord
Road since August, includes two nurses, a receptionist, a
secretary, and pediatrician-internist Bill Williams and internist
Ron Hunt, both Dévidson graduates.

The main advantages of the new building are more space end
more modern facilities. The Center, open from 8 to 6 weekdays, has
facilities for X-rays, EKG's, blood work, and minor surgery.

° ‘The Center was scheduled for completion last September but was
delayed. The major difficulty was the demand by a local building

inspector that the College comply with a fire zone ordinance |

requiring all buildings in the downtown area to have fire-resistant
walls, After spending several months in an unsuccessful attempt, to
reverse the inspector’s decision, the College did make the éxferior
walls fire resistent—at an added cost of $6,000.

—CAROLE LOPSTON’
Living Endowment drive exceeds goal —

, On November 1 College President Samuel Spencer rechived a
memo from Vice President for Development Duane Dittman
stating the $470,000 goal set for the 1978 Living Endowment was
unattainable. By January 1 the drive had exceeded this goal ‘by
$23,000. -

Dittman said an unexpected final surge in giving brought the

~ year-end total to $493,000. -

The Living Endowment, which goes into the general fund, is
used to hold down tuition costs and to improve the school. The
money comes largely from alumni, who donated over $323,000 in
1978. Other contributions come from parents, corporations, and

Director of Living Endowment Edward L. Willingham, TI
credits the success of the program to volunteer work by alumni and

students. Other factors, suchas -college—atheleties and. WDA
may have a positive, if immeasurable effect, he added.

“It’s so good to be a part of a winning thing,” Willingham
chortled.

The fund-raising project began last year with a telethon by
students who called alumni and with letters sent to alumni asking
for contributions. A volunteer chairman for each class aftér 1920
sent out letters or made phonecalis to members of his class.
Dittman attributed the success of the drive to exceptional effort by
the volunteer students and alumni.

Spencer commented, ‘‘There are a lot of people out there who

believe in Davidson.”

—ROBERT BOWIE

Clarifications

An article about swimming in
last week’s Davidsonian incor-

caption to a photograph of .

History Professor Jonathan
Boulton on page 11 created the
impression that Boulton was
angry because “his contract
was not removed.” Boulton is
instead angry because his con-
tract was not “renewed.”

A headline on the front page
of last week’s Davidsonian
which read ‘‘Zimmermann
bumps Eoulton “met with dis-
favor both among Zimmer-
mann’s supporters and Boul-
ton’s. Friends of the Academic
Vice President said that, al-
though Zimmermann is directly
responsible for the faculty per-

sonnel decisions, there were
enough other people involved in
the decision to render the
headline inaccurate.

An article on the Center for
Special Studies.on the front

page stated that the present .

dean, Dr. Robert Avinger, will
return to his teaching duties
next year. Instead, Avinger
plans to take a sabbatical.

The Davidsonian is pu-
blished weekly except during
the summer months, holi-
days, and the first and tenth
week of every term, by the
students of Davidson Col-

lege, on the Thursday pre-

- ceeding the issue date.
The newspaper's office is

on the third : floor: of the
College Union. Mailing ad-
dress», Box 218, Davidson,

N.C. 28086; telephone:
892-2000, Ext. 148. Sub-
scription price: $6.00 per
year. Second class postage
paid at Davidson, N.C.

C

It’s your little sister's birthday
and you've got a term paper
due on Monda

Going home can be as simple as a:

~ postage Slamp, an envelope,

and a card from the Village Store.

"A WORLD OF GIFTS”

THE VILLAGE STORE

Taylor and Irene Blackwell, Owners

