“THE DAVIDSONIAN

Me
Founded 1914

Freedom and Convenience

Beleaguered History Professor David Shi did more last week to
strengthen Davidson’s honor code than any other single individual
has done in years. Because of him, students who not too long ago

would have professed a strong reluctance to even turn in acheater ~

are now not only actively watching for signs of possible cheating,
but are even discussing ways to administratively crack down on
whatever cheating may actually be going on.

in any other circumstance, the person who brought about such a
drastic change in attitude might reasonably expect to hecome a
hero. But instead, Shi, who seems to be the unprociaimed leader
of a movement to alter Davidson's popular eight-year-old
figures on campus.

The root of Shi’s problem is apparently distrust. In discussing
self-scheduled exams with students early last week, Shi’ made
what, in light of his announced goals, can only be looked upon as

acostly mistake. The backlash against this mistake was so strong .

that it brought about the above-mentioned change in attitude and
. caused Shi’s motives to be openly questioned.

What Shi did (and he is certainly not the only professor to have
done this, only the most outspoken) was to defend his support of
the move to allow professors the option of scheduling their
exams, by speculating on the amount of cheating going on under
the present system. He said repeatedly that he believes students
are cheating more on their Self-scheduled exams than they would
on scheduled ones.

What Shi did not realize at the time, and has perhaps not yet
realized, is that if he is right about self-scheduling being too great
an opportunity for would-be cheaters, then much more should be
done than he himself proposes. Self-scheduled exams should be
done away ; with. No professor should be able to give them.

If he is wrong, then much less should be done. Self-scheduled
exams clearly offer too many opportunities far honest students “to
perform at their best in a highly competitive situation,” as College
President Samuel Spencer has said, to allow professors the option
‘of not giving them.

if the question is indeed this serioius, what then is the basis of
Shi’s assertion that more cheating is going on? Speculation. Shi
has repeatedly admitted that he has no way to be sure that more
cheating is going on, he is merely speculating on the basis of his
subjective personal experience and the experience of a few others.

Obviously, fundamental policy decisions cannot be based upon

speculation. The faculty cannot at its March 13 meeting allow all .-

professors the option of giving scheduled exams on the basis of
the speculation of a few. The faculty cannot afford to snk that
irrational, that irresponsible.

Guileful cheaters will continue to cheat whatever the faculty
decides. The so-called “borderline cases” Shi and his supporters
are so fond of discussing will be tempted to cheat regardless of the
exam system in use. And the great majority of Davidson students,
the honest students, won't cheat no matter what happens.

In making its decision, the faculty should largely discount the
Shi position. Instead, it should weigh heavily the issue of freedom
and convenience. That issue, simply stated, is this: which is more

_ important, a professor's freedom to give whatever kind of exam he

eases, or a student's freedom to take-his — oe
jrealie?:

Fe Gud isda bs eihcln Gee debs So nesick de teeta
methods used by its individual members? We believe it does. If it
was a matter of the administration trying to impose its will upon
the faculty, it might be different. Then it would be an issue of
academic freedom. As it is, however, clearty the faculty as a group
of peers has the right to impose its will upon a minority of its
membership. —

Obviously, the faculty. also has tHe right to Jimit. student

_ freedom, but in this perticular.case we implore it not to. Because -

the faculty exists not so. much to grade students as to teach them,
prides! arn alban earaieaibaaaatadtah
them every opportunity to leam:--

it ta indoiteine: iat the mclek positive thing thut-oin be said: *

_ about the self-scheduled system, that student grades often
improve dramatically on seif-scheduled exams, has been
. misinterpreted. and twisted into one of the most negative. The:

arena to

‘of widespread cheating. ‘it is not.

“The Campus Forum

Artistic Freedom

To the Editor:

The honor code being in the
sticky situation that it is and all
I’m kind of reluctant to bring
this out in the open, but there’s
been some vandalism I feel
obligated to bring to light.

Maybe I’m a little cocky, but
I spent an awful lot of time
working hard on a Humanities
project entitled ‘‘The Roman
Phallic Idiom: Contemporary
Manifestations and Response.”
Sure, the exhibit had its ups
and downs since it was erected;
yet on the whole I feel it was
well received by our mature and
broad-minded college communi-
ty.

I do, however, apologize to
those who found the objet d'art
in bad taste and hard to
swallow, although I’m inclined
to conclude that the irrespon-
sible disrespect which occurred
on the morning of February 9
has no place on this campus.
The vandals who caused this
senseless destruction know who

‘they are--we got the shaft and I

hope this letter rubs a tender
nerve or two.

There’s something decidedly
amiss when one’s freedom of
artistic expression is violated at
an institution of higher lear-
ning. I guess the project was
just conceived a little ahead of
its.time.

L. Simon Barnes '82

but also as a source of great
pride to both students and
alumni.

This tree made us.the best
and of this we were rightly
proud. Yet, now the cry goes
out that the tree should be
felled, for one of its limbs is
possibly diseased; one limb out
of its hundreds of healthy
branches.

The cry is out to destroy the
very thing which renders Da-
vidson formidable, and we must
calm ourselves and not act in
haste.

We are a community of
scholars and we must remember
that scholars who act in unjus-
tified haste hardly bear the
respect implicit in the title.

Does the sage fell a majestic
tree to eliminate its one dis-
eased limb? Clearly not. He
climbs the tree and seeks out

this limb in order to remove it

before it infects the rest of the
tree.

It has also. been suggested

_that one could try to effect a

cure by certain ‘‘relieving’’
methods, such as abolishing
self-scheduled exams. But to do

so would be to merely girdle the |

tree--a move which would only
mutilate our venerable tree,
perhaps even kill it, for such an
action would be an unwarranted
insult to a student body of high
integrity.

Thus, I say climb the tree and
hack off the diseased limb

' —don’t fell or mutilate the tree.

‘to fell a tree, but we must

remember that. the stakes are

if we destroy the Honor

Code, we shall have wrenched

Birthday Blooper
To the Editor
Last week’s swimming article
stated that Coach Pat Miller
had her 36th birthday on the
day of the Citadel meet. This
kind of an embarrassment
should not be tolerated! Pat’s
35th birthday will be celebrated
on the 11th of this month.
Stand corrected!
Davidson Swimming Team .
and Davidson Women’s Tennis:
eeeeeeece Team
The Davidsonian welcomes
letters to the editor on any
subject from students, admin-
strators, the faculty, alumni

and townspeople.
Mail letters to The Davidso-

nian, Box 218, Davidsen, N.C.
28036 or bring them by the
newspaper's office in the Col- -
lege Union. Letters received by
Sunday afternoon will ordina-
ny. te Perene et woe
issue.

Charles Erwin
, Editor

.
Pam Camerra. Execute Editor
Martin Hunter. Business Manager
Diane Quom, Managing Ecttor

.

Dennis McLawhorn, Senior News Editor
Ba Peeples. Serwor Features Editor
Garry Sachtjen. Senior Sports Editor

George hie caugh, Senior Opinion Editor

Rick Jenkins, News Editor
Carole Loptson, News Editor
Suzanne Newberry. Features Editor
Bert Mobley, Sports Editor

‘Sheri Gravett. Opinion Editor
garet lack News Editor
Margaret Hunter, Features Graphics Editor
Ralph Lastey. Sports Graphics Editor
Ann Sneatier, Opmwion Graphics Editor

.
Lucy Philips! Advertising Manage:
Agia
Amanda Ha8. Production Manage:
Ann Garner, Research Director
David Cadenneed. An Editor

Gregg Strader. Photograpiy Director
Dovid senhower. Prooiresding Drector
.*

* Mark teas. Aast. Executive Editor
Mash Barren, Asst. News Editor.
Jean Soracco. Asst. Features Editor

corensnsterctacsteenel

e- r
Howard Browne. iad elites tae
Lynn McCaint? Asst. Feahwes Grapincs Exitor
Tandy Géiend. Asst. Sports Graptecs Editor
Kaen Sancin. Asst, Opinson Graphucs Edtor

.

Packy Watson. Asst. Cecutation Manage’

, Ns eke aucr Proaeeven wheeger
bon Caawet. Aust Research Drv
” Pha b 0. Assi. Prolog
~ Ba Pureed, Asst. Dwector
«Gin Pastain, Asst. Act

ot Mien

wy. ait

Ned, Prox

