(Continued from page 3)
oriented toward a continuous
interaction between the guy and
His date, all forty-eight hours’
worth. Problems arose largely
from the fact that an incredibly
high percentage of the dates
were blind dates, and there was
little means of escape from any
bloops that your ‘‘friends’’ may
have arranged for you. It would
probably be difficult to produce
very many different excuses to
go to the bathroom, without
seeming abnormal.

The modern day student may
see some problems which might
have occurred under the chap-
eroning system. Town ladies
volunteered to man the shifts of
It was their job to summon the
girls from their rooms when the
guys, who were allowed no
farther than the stair landing,
would submit to them the name
and room number of their date.

Sundays would’ come,
though. The girls would begin

Search

(Continued from page 1)

search. They also called the
campus fraternities and reques-
ted help.

A search party quickly
formed. Members got their own
cars, asked friends to join them,
and finally headed for Hunters-
ville in a caravan of over forty
students.

The students walked a few
yards apart, turning slowly so
that they formed a semi-circle
and came out of the woods
about a third of a mile down the
road. No doubt they were a
strange sight, filtering out of
the woods at 3:30 on a cold, wet
night. A trailer with lights
stood nearby. Before the team
had decided what to do, a lady
stuck her head out of the trailer
door and said, ‘‘If you’re loo-
king for the little girl, she’s in
here.’’ 4

The Girl was safe, and was
soon returned to her parents.
The Davidson students counted
their numbers, just to make
sure they hadn't lost any, and
headed. back for campus for a
few hours of sleep before cla-
sses.

A common complaint against
Davidson students is that they
are too obsessed with lust for
the almighty grade and visions
of grad school. It appears,
though, that at least forty of
them have other priorities, too.

President

(Continued from page 1)

system is one which gives
students an opportunity to
perform at their best in a highly
competitive situation where the
academic record is especially
important to the many who are
applying for graduate work,’’ he
said.

“Second, atid most impor-
tant, I see the self-scheduled
exam system as a significant
element in the support of the
Honor Code,’’ he added.

Weekend

to check out of their rooms,
turning in their registration
cards and paying their $3 if
they hadn't yet. ‘The boys were
always glad when we would
leave after lunch on Sunday,”
Sue recalls. The guys were
ready to get back to their own
rooms, their own beds; the girls
were probably getting tired of
crawling over the wall-to-wall
beds. Maybe everybody was
ready to return to the academic
routine, even if it was only to
get some rest. ‘‘We’d recover
about Wednesday,” said Sue.
So here we are at the arrival
of yet another big weekend at
Davidson. Times have changed
some things. There is, accor-
ding to the Shaw Smith theo-
rem, a greater preoccupation
with the “KKK: Kegs, Kom-
bos, and Ko-eds.’’ The advent
of the co-ed has, of course,

shaken the social traditions at
Davidson to its very roots. The
transition was evidently a diffi-
cult one to make. During the
orientation of the first freshman
class including female, a fresh-
man mixer was planned with
Queens just like every year.
This did not settle too well with
the young co-eds. Today, in
many cases, it is the co-ed who
will import a date for the
weekend.

The big weekend may not be
as big as it was in the past and
it may not carry with it the
same student-wide energy in
the planning, preparation, and
participation phases. But even
at a Davidson where ‘‘social
opportunities’”’ are much more
available on a weekend-to-
weekend basis than they were in
the earlier days, still the big
weekend is special.

(Continued from page 1)

nies have $1.7 billion invested in South
Africa—about 17 percent of South Afri-
ca’s net foreign investment—and 6,000
U.S. companies have some sort of trading
relationship with South Africa. It is
estimated that U.S. banks hold 29 percent
of South Africa’s national debt.

Connette hopes that a reform-minded
corporate community could use its leve-
rage to bring about the dismantling of
Apartheid.

“T’d like to see the college set up some
sort of committee which could monitor
corporations in our portfolio on an
individual basis. There are a lot of public
interest groups and church-related groups
which do a lot of monitoring like that, so
the information would be available.

“Any recommendations that this com-
mittee would make would have to be
approved by the Trustees. If the commit-
tee could make rational decisions én what
stand the college should take on particular
corporations, they would draw enough
student and faculty support that the
Trustees would respect their opinion.”

Connette labels hirhself an advocate of
“constructive engagement.’’ In summary,
that means: Find out which of the
companies in the college’s portfolio are
multinationals operating in South Africa,
and encourage those companies to work
for reform there. If a company refuses to
oppose Apartheid, or if its good-faith
efforts to end racism do not sway the
South African government, divest the
college’s holdings in that corporation.

Connette is in the process of organizing
a group of poeple to look more closely at
the college’s investments.

At many other colleges the students are
better organized to address the issue of
university and corporate involvement in
South Africa. In fact, the issue is a hot
one on so many campuses that regional
organizations have sprung up to pool the
resources of activist students.

These regional organizations ‘‘probably
represent the first attempt to build a
national protest organization like the ones
that so effectively coordinated campus
anti-war protests during the late sixties
and early seventies,” believes Chip Berlet
of the College Press Service.

Some student activists at other schoo!
adopt a stance on the investment issue
rather different from Connette’s.

“Constructive engagement is a waste of
time,” stated a Yale University student
who asked not to be named. The student
has been active in meetings, petition
drives, pickets, protest marches and other
activities in an overall effort to urge Yale
officials to end all major investments in

February 2, 1979—The Davidsonian— 11

Connette

South Africa.

This student sees little hope that U.S.
corporations in South Africa can serve as
an agent to abolish Apartheid. ‘During
the last 15 years of rising foreign
investment in South Africa, living condi-
tions for blacks have become worse and
discriminatory laws have been streng-
thened. The distribution of wealth is more
skewed,’’ he reported.

Even an enlightened corporate commu-
nity would only touch the tip of the
iceberg—less than 1 percent of all South
African blacks are employed by U.S.
firms, he said.

“Most companies now have the best
employment policies legal for blacks under
South African law,’’ he maintains. ‘“‘“Some
companies— Polaroid, for example—rea-
lized they couldn’t do anything to really
effect change, and have pulled out of
South Africa.

“Yale’s Ad Hoc Committee on South
African Investments: studied the matter
extensively and decided that the net effect
of investments was to support the

The Ad Hoc Committee at Yale
recommended: 1) complete and immediate
divestment of Yale’s investments in banks
which loan directly to the South African
government and, 2) progressive divesti-
ture from at least half of the corporations
with major holdings in South Africa.

‘‘The reasoning behind ‘progressive
divestiture,’’’ the student explained,
“was that if a major university like Yale
made divestiture moves, corporations
with holdings in South Africa would fear a
snowball effect and would agree to
disengage themselves from involvement in
the country.”

The student acknowledged that Yale’s
complete divestiture of South African
investments and the subsequent large-
scale disengagement of American firms
from South Africa might undermine the
government and cause unrest and vio-
lence. But he believes that unrest and
instability may be the only thing which
will force white South Africans to compro-
mise with blacks.

‘*Besides, South Africa is already a
violent society and is growing more so as
repression by whites increases,’’ he said.

Yale’s Board of Trustees last summer
only partially accepted the Ad Hoc
Committees’ recommendations. They a-
greed to divest from banks making direct
loans to South Africa but resolved to
retain investments in U.S. corporations
operating in South Africa and work
through them to effect change—the
“constructive engagement” practice men-
tioned earlier by Connette.

The Yale student Offered this interpre-
tation of the Trustee decision: ‘‘The
Trustees are basically conservative. Some
of them are heads of corporations that
would be affected by a divestiture move.
Some don’t want to alienate alumni while
the college is in the midst.of a fund-raising
campaign.

“But one Trustee told us ‘keep up the
effort—you are having an effect.’ So we
are.”

Davidson's Trustees are also wrestling
the matter of investment policy, Ben
Craig, Chairman of the Board’s Finance
and Management Committee, believes
in Davidson’s portfolio of investments

“there are very few companies involved in
any significant way in South Africa.”

And even the investments in those
companies involved would be ‘‘miniscule”’
relative to the total South African GNP,
Craig added. :

Nonetheless, the Finance committee is
working on a statement of social responsi-
bility in investment. The committee
presented*a statement at a 1978 Board
meeting, but ‘the full Board felt that we
needed a stronger statement. . . (they felt
that) the statement should be more direct
as pertaining to South Africa,’’ Craig
explained.

Late this month the Finance Committee
will present a revised statement to the
Board. Craig said that his committee is a
“very diverse’ group and that ‘‘we have a
full range of options to be considered.’’

Scutter, Stevens, and Clark, the col-
lege’s investment council, is not under any
specific instructions to select for David-
son’s portfolio only those corporations
that are socially responsible, according to
Craig.

“We would need some mechanism if we
elect to monitor (investments) or take any
direct, overt action,”’ Craig said.

College Business Manager Robert Cur-
rie believes that ‘the college’s primary
investment responsibility is to maintain
the most satisfactory return on invest-
ment funds over the long term.” At the
same time, he said, ‘“‘the college recognizes
moral considerations in the investment of
endowment funds.”

Al Connette wants the college to go
beyond just recognition of moral conside-
rations. At the least, he hopes the
Trustees will establish an ambitious policy
of constructive engagement.

“If we are not going to use our shares
contructively to implement change within
South Africa, then we might as well divest
completely. We shouldn't be benefitting
from the profits made by institutionalized
racism at the expense of millions of
blacks."
