Se ea

PA wa hich the ue of much
work and careful planning on the part of the Theatre and Speech
Department, faculty members voted to accept the proposal
aoa oe ee

combination of speech, dramatic literature, and theatre cobrses.
For many years a hybrid drama major has been available to
students through the Center for Special Studies. Lately the number
of students involved in this program has been a constant, if not
increasing one. Because of this steady interest, the department
decided that a regular theatre major would be a legitimate request.

The Theatre and Speech Department originally submitted its
. written proposal to the Educational Policy Committee in the middle
of January. The committee suggested some revisions which the
department found helpful. These changes were made, and the
proposal again submitted. The EPC passed the revised proposal on
March 12. ESTHER BRUCE

Carta fa Spock Sues garspewfoculy
~ Genter for Special Studies Director Frank Bliss named
Wednesday the Center’s faculty for next year. ‘

Scheduled to serve for two year terms at the Center are
Psychology Professor John Brockway, Biology Rofessor Donald
Professor Robert Manning, Sociology Professor
Robert ‘Myers, Political Science Professor Louis Ortmayer,
‘Philosophy Professor Lance Stell, Psychology Professor Timothy
Webster, and French Professor Lauren Yoder.

Bliss made the announcement at an open meeting held
Wednesday to introduct the Center’s new faculty, discuss pro-
grams of study proposed for the Center, and told of the
discontinuation of two of the Center’s more formal programs.

Bliss said that the Center's two currently structured major

D - one in Public Policy and one in American Studies, will

One reason he gave for the change is the departure from the
Center of those members of the present faculty wha specialize in
these areas. Those students currently involved in these programs
will be allowed to continue in them however, and prospective
majors will be allowed to pursue these topics on an independent
Basis.

Bliss also tentatively proposed formal Center programs in the

areas of Bio-ethics and International Studies. He said he hopes
that these proposals will draw student criticism, suggestions, and
stimulate alternate proposals which was one of the purposes of the

meeting. LINDSEY ROBERTSON .«

Prospective Weekend

130 prospective students will be visiting Davidson this weekend.
The invasion was the brainchild of Dave Barnard, who sees it as an
opportunity to show the incoming freshmen what Davidson is
really like. A square dance with Will Terry and a campus-wide field
day Friday are some of the activities planned for this week-end.
Students will give tours to groups of ten prospectives ever
half-hour on Friday, and they will be having a meal at one of the
houses on Patterson Court. ‘They will also attend classes.

ments in U.S. companies which

- operate in South Africa as

“leverage” to encourage those
companies to “work to amelio-
rate the consequences of apar-
theid,” aecording to the Trustee
—

Board meeting.
The statement does not speci-
fically explain how the College
will i ag the activities of

U.S. companies in South Afri-
ca.

This pation by the Trostees

"adds Davidson to the growing:

‘list of colleges and universities
es ee Ne
“constructive

rating activity away from illegal
or immoral conduct, the Trus-
tees will direct the eh gee

"manager to dispose of. -

Saar Wi tack a Gee

ny,” the statement said.
PHIL DUNCAN

policy of

| N.C. 28036; telephone: :

_ ‘The Davidsonian is pu-
blished weekly except during
the summer months, holi-
days, and the first and tenth
week of every term, by the
students of Davidson Col-

‘Jege, on the Thursday pre-

- ceeding the issue date. —

The newspaper's office is
on the third floors of oy:

College Union. Mailing ad-
dress: Box 218, Davidson,

892-2000, Ext. 148. Sub-
scription price: $6.00 per

paid at Davidson, N.C.

a)

’ GENERAL CONTRACTORS |
Contractors for some of Davidson's finest buildings

MOORESVILLE
