Davidson College
and the Draft

Bill Coward

I cannot remain quiet in the face of the
return to barbarism for which Sam
Maloney is calling in The Davidsonian.

Sure, the logic which leads to the
prescription for draft is almost invinci-
ble, but I think that it should be the
prerogative of a liberal arts college to
establish dialogue on the basic “assump-
tions of this issue—the underlying
morality and world view— and not to be
content with the mechanical necessities.
That is properly the domain of technical
schools; our task is much higher.

C. Wright Mills, a prominent contem-
porary sociologist, states in The Causes
of World War III, ‘‘We are at a curious
juncture in the history of human
insanity; in the name of realism, men
are quite mad, and precisely what they
call utopian is now the condition of
human survival. Utopian action is
survival action; realistic, sound, com-
mon-sense, practical actions are now the
actions of madmen and idiots.”

With all due respect to Dr. Maloney, I
would tend to say he falls in the category
of Mill’s realist and stands in contradic-
tion of the character of this: college as
Christian and liberal arts.

As a Christian, Karl Barth would
probably say that the defense of a
“Christian nation’ does not preclude
killing. While the morality of this
position is largely subjective, we must
re-examine America in these terms if we
are to be sure of what we could be
fighting for.

Even if we then decide that America
is, after all, a nation full of justice and
Christian interaction we must assume
that there will be those who will not kill
even for Christian motivations. (We
would also have to assume that.a
minority would not reach the first
conclusion). Given this situation, liberal
philosophy now must play its part.

The basic principle supporting a
liberal arts education, the Constitution
of the United States, and indeed
Protestant theology is the primacy of the
individual in the affairs which concern
him.

Undeniably, individualism has had its
bad moments in monopolies, dictator-
ships, extreme racism (the individual
race) and sexism (the individual sex).

Nevertheless the benefits far outweigh
the disadvantages: advances as we know
them now have ususally been the
product of innovative thought, person-
al initiative (at least the profit motive)
and stubborn resistance to the dogmas
of the past.

Now more than ever we need creative,
individual thought and action to solve
problems which,«if left unsolved, could
throw us back into the Dark Ages. Even
the traditional institutions (e.g. the
army) cannot be trusted in themselves to
muster the needed creativity. We don’t

need more bureaucrats; we don’t need:

numbers where previously there were
persons. We do need an environment of
freedom in the face of the challenges we
confront today. Conscription would go a
long way towards destroying this en-
vironment of freedom.

There is the risk that the result of a
weak army will be the invasion and
subjugation of Americans by a foreign
power. We would then hope that our
democracy had been successful enough

to insure its eventual resurrection in a~

more durable form. This would depend
on the strength given to democracy and
“# “hfe sits ultimate , challenge.

SEE D
Here is where ‘Davidson’ Conege va - “De

make its contribution.

It is saddening to see a leader in a
liberal arts college supporting the draft
when people depend on him to see
beyond the practicalities of the present
to the truths of the past, present and
future.

For me, I will publically burn my draft
card if I ever receive one and Davidson
College will be my first witness at my
trial.

Hopefully, the mass insanity of the
times will not effect her witness to
individual rights, Christianity and the
will to survive of man.

It is high time we began serious
dialogue concerning this resurrected
monster. It is not enough to claim
exemption for educational reasons, for
that supports a system of discrimination
against those not so lucky as ourselves.

We should be considered fools to- let
Dr. Maloney send us youngsters into
war as if to satisfy some Malthusian
equation of population statistics.

Otherwise we will be counted as
conspirators and will not know it before
it is too late.

Bill Coward is a junior from Sylva,
North Carolina.

The Watchman

A Guide to Courses

Moral Ire

To the Editor:

Through the years I have become
accustomed to student attempts at
humor and to good natured ribbing of
faculty members. I have become hard-
ened to the confusion of the vulgar for
the humorous and the use of words that
good taste deletes from reputable daily
newspapers. The dangers of censorship
outweigh the risks inherent in adoles-
cent, unprofessional, student leadership
of college publications. Registering ob-
jections in the past has seldom seemed
worth the effort. The April 6 edition of
The Davidsonian, however, should a-
rouse the moral ire of the entire
Davidson community.

Whoever wrote portions of the des-
criptions of members of the Biology and
English Departments in particular— and
whoever permitted them to be pub-
lished—revealed a distressing lack of
compassionate sensitivity and fellow-
feeling. I. have not seen such vicious
defamation of character since the
McCarthy era. I am embarrassed for the
College. I am dismayed at how little the
writers and editors responsible have
absorbed of the sensitivity to values and
to people implicit and explicit in the
teaching efforts of so many of us on the
Davidson faculty.

What recourse do the victims of

public character and professional assas- °

sination have to unsigned articles? The
Code of Responsibility provides for the
expulsion of students who steal the
property of others and lie under oath.
What should be done to students who
steal the reputations and good names of

_ members of the community by publish-

ing untruths under the thin veil of
malicious humor?

The freedom of the press is such a
precious: freedom that it should be
entrusted only to those who know how to
use it responsibly. Freedom should never
be mistaken for license. Actions should

Davidsonian that the misuse of trust not

MHS eai eas se nS
‘vu loeuecrmetal ue — :

be repeated in this student generation.
' Samuel D. Maloney
Professor of Religion

April Fool’s Issue

To the Editor:

The ‘‘April Fool’s’’ issue of The
Davidsonian is sad. Sad because its
editor and writers showed such poor
taste, sad because they think that using
obscene words are humorous, sad be-
cause they do not know what good
satire and good humor is—or, at least,
they cannot write good satire and good
humor.

After reading about twenty such
attempts at humor in the last 20 years
by The Davidsonian staff, I can say that
only one showed real class. Perhaps one
or two others had articles that showed
class, but in the main most of them were
also sad. It is sad to think that almost
every new staff of the paper cannot rise
above the level of its predecessors.

A former editor of PUNCH (who
should be an authority on what is
humorous_and_ satiric) said that no one
under thirty should ever attempt to
write in a humorous vein. The last issue
of The Davidsonian is living proof that
the paper’s writers are proving most
emphatically what that distinguished
editor said.

I cannot help wondering how many
coeds were among those who wrote such
drivel. It had been my hope that
coeducation would have raised the
standards of the men at Davidson,
especially in raising the level of the
vocabulary that is now in vogue among
young people. I understand that many
girls are trying to keep up with the boys
in that regard. If this is true, then our
state of affairs is sad. wre

We can only hope that the writers will
do one of two things: 1) Apologize
publicly for their junior high schoo!
prose; or 2) Eventually feel conscience-
stricken as the years go by for making

at yoke

take one of, the above courses of action,

Society... aakages

| UF they-da nat -

ao

SR SEY
then they are sick, sick, sick.

In fairness, I would like to say that a
limited number of satiric. pieces showed
class.

Francis Ghigo
Professor Emeritus of French
Sufficient Punishment
To the Editor:

To lose an editorship long sought and
well treasured weighs heavily upon one’s
self-esteem. I hope this will be remem-
bered as the course guide is condemned.
Senselessly inhumane it was. Cruel
indeed. The unjustifiability and stupidi-
ty of it acknowledged, the editor has
taken the prescribed punishment and
has stepped down.

To voluntarily initiate this act surely
taxed the spirit and fiber of what had
been to that point the most: innovative
editor in the Davidsonian’s recent his-
tory: Charles Erwin has given more
devotion and time to the art of
journalism as a student than anyone in

.the community. His rivals—and I don’t -

exaggerate—are few.

Although I condemn Charles for the
guide I respect him as I respect Buck
Tawrimore for his aptitude in journa-
lism. This incident was a very unfor-
tunate misjudgment on Charles’ part.

I feel that Uharles’ resignation is
sufficient punishment for this. Scorn or
further ridicule will benefit ne one.

So much for the editor, but what has
parceancirtel pambagen cs bees ob,
community?

The so-called wimp major’s perspec-
tive from which I speak gives me reason
to hope that this incident will benefit our
community. Emile Durkheim, perhaps
the most prominent sociologist of the
nineteenth century, asserts in his work
The Normal and the. that.
crime is inherent, normal, and good for

By nseindiait: ies act siphon: and. by:
ee ee

Sg
TN tegen:

oe
t eto ee
> a eal
