6— The, Davidsonian— Feb’

Davidson College Bowl Team (left to right) Ed Trumbull, James Gibert, Captain Tom Ruby,

2, 1979

and Tim Newcomb will compete Saturday in the 900 Room with USC, Clemson and

UNC-Charlotte.

(John Highsmith)

Women’s sports program funded due to ECU student;
Title IX combats administrator’s lack of awareness

(CPS)—It took Eastern Caro-
lina University student Debbie
Newby months of petitioning
and pleading to get action on
violations of a law that had been
on the books for six years.

In the end, Newby, along
with four other ECU students,
persuaded ECU administrators
to begin treating the gross
inequities between women’s and
men’s sports—differences they
knew were prohibited by federal
Title IX of the Education
Amendments of 1972. The
biggest impediment, Newby re-
calls, was that both ECU
officials and the ECU lawyer
who assisted the students
“‘weren’t very informed at all
about Title IX—or rather they
didn’t realize the importance of
the law.”’

Lack of awareness and con-
cern about Title IX may have
blocked broad implementation
of Title IX, observers say, but
the most. potent factor may be
the lack of guidance and en-
forcement from the federal
government.

Since its passage in 1972,
Title IX has prohibited sex
discrimination in schools re-
ceiving federal support. Yet it
took three years for the U.S.
Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare (HEW) to
come up with how-to rules,
whereupon it gave schools three
years to comply with the regu-
lations.

.But at the July 1978 dead-
line, schools in complete com-
pliance with Title IX were the
exception rather than the rule.
Punishment for non-compliance
was withdrawal of federal funds
(which amount to $12.2 billion
for all colleges), but no school
has yet been penalized.

Faced with such a dismal
track record, HEW came out
last month with its toughest set
-of rules yet. By next Septem-
ber, HEW says, schools will
have to prove they are not
discriminating against women
in sports by showing ‘‘substan-
tially equal per-capita expendi-

tures’’ for male and female
athletes in such ‘‘financially
measurable areas’’ as _ scholar-
ships, recruitment, equipment,
travel and publicity.

Spending -equal amounts on
men and women is of necessity
an implicit goal of sexual
equality. But HEW had never
demanded dollar-for-dollar
equality. Spending more on
men’s sports was OK as long as
“the patterns of expenditure did
not result in a disparate effect
on opportunity.”

Thus, the new equal spending
rule is turning a lot of heads in
athletics departments and is:
intercollegiate athletic organi-
zations. Many men’s program
athlet. rectors fear it will
“force them to weaken men’s
programs substantially in order
to pump more money into
women’s programs,” as William
Davids, president of the Uni-
versity of New Mexico and a
member of the Office of Civil
Rights task force on Title IX,
warns.

If the big men’s sports pro-
grams like football and basket-
ball are equalized, the National
Collegiate Athletic Association
(NCAA) estimates it could cost
most large colleges between
$200,000 and $600,000. Or,
shuddérs Davis, it may even
eliminate football at some
schools.

However, the big game en-
thusiasts may have little to
worry about. The new Title IX
regs also allow’ unequal
spending if the differences are
“based on non-discriminatory
factors such as the costs of a
particular sport, or the scope of
competition (national as op-
posed to local or regional).’’
This ‘“‘loophole,’’ say many
women’s athletic directors, will
allow continued large-scale
funding to maintain the bigtime
male sports.

Gloria Ray, director of wo-
men’s athletics at the Univer-
sity of Tennessee, acknow-
ledges that sports such as
football require more money.

But once those expenses are
deducted, she told the Chronicle
of Higher Education, ‘‘you
should get a realistic figure for
what a fait, equal-per-capita
expenditure should be under
Title [IX proposals.”’

Still, various men’s athletic
organizations, like the NCAA,
are not willing to chance such
compromises. At their recent
convention, NCAA officials re-
solved to continue their opposi-
tion to ‘‘HEW attempts to
dictate uniform federal program
goals and standards.’’ The
NCAA has maintained that
Congress never intended Title
IX to be applied to intercol-
legiate athletics. It is currently
appealing a recent court ruling,
which dismissed its two year old
suit because the NCAA was not
an educational institution.

The NCAA has also joined
with a coalition.of colleges in a
lobbying effort to have the
proposals modified.

Despite the current contro-
versy, the most accurate fore-
cast may prove to be that
voiced by Ray of the University
of Tennessee. “I don’t think
that it’s really going to be any
different than it has been in the
past. It would be good if HEW
was going to look at all schools
but, realistically, HE W isn’t
going to come in and look at you
unless it gets a complaint.”’

Ray feels that the best results
will be gained by women
working through their own local
administrators.

Which sounds a lot like
Debby Newby’s theory. The
ECU women’s athletic, depart-
ment’s budget has doubled
since her complaint, as ‘has the
scholarship fund. It gets re-
cruitment money for the first
time. The basketball team now
has a full-time Coach, and
women in ECU’s eight sports
will be able to use three locker
rooms, instead of one. Ac-
cording to Newby, it’s possible
for five students and a lot of
time and patience to make an
impact where HEW can’t.

Notes on Students

College Bowl

By CAROLE LOPTSON
Davidson College hasn't had a college bowl team since 1969.
But this year, after a fall term of intramural competition, Davidson
again has an interscholastic varsity team.

The Davidson Varsity College Bowl Team includes Captain Tom
Ruby, a senior of Ru’ah Elohim fame, James Gibert, from the
intramural team Precious Bodily Fluids, Sophomore Ed Trumbull,
from A Walk Indoors, and Sophomore Tim Newcomb, from E
Pluribus Unum. Sophomore Bob Evans, from the Young Yooto-
pians team, is first alternate.

On Saturday, the team will take on USC, Clemson and
UNC-Charlotte in a round-robin invitational meet here at
Davidson. The teams will compete from 12:30 to 5:30 p.m. in the
900 Room. The meet is open to the public and free. an

USC won the Regional Championship last year in Region five in
which Davidson will compete (though it was later taken away from
them because they competed in two regions). The Davidson team
will use this chance to measure up USC.

The team is slated to compete in the Regional Championships at
the University of Tennessee, Chattanooga, on February 8, 9,10. If
they win, the team will go on to the National Champoinships held
in Las Vegas, Nevada at the MGM Hotel in March.

The team took second place in the Wake Forest Invitational
College Bowl Tournament on January 20. They lost first place to
Chapel Hill in the finals by one question. According to team
members, there was some doubt about the officiating, but Brown
stressed the tournament did not officially count.

The Davidson team also defeated a faculty team of French
Professor Lauren Yoder, German Professor Hansford Epes,
English Professor Randy Nelson, and Physics Professor Bob
Manning in an exhibition match January 19.

With their coach, English Professor Charlie Lloyd, and
Assistant Director of the Union William Brown, who acts as a
general manager, the team is practicing for about an hour daily
with questions solicited from the faculty, from Lloyd, from
students and from team members.

In recent practices, the 1979 team competed against the
renowned Robert Bryan of the 1969 Davidson Varsity College Bowl
Team and won.

Trumbull commented, ‘‘We’re not facing TV cameras, but I
think it’s important that we’re beating Bryan. We're beating
everybody.”

Team spirit and confidence runs high. Team members count as
fessential to their success fast reflexes and good teamwork as well as

® “near instantaneous recall of general knowledge and trivia.

“The team is very good now and every time we play and every
time we practice we get better. I don’t think we’ve peaked yet,”
summed up Gibert.

NAVY OFFICER.
YOU GET RESPONSIBILITY
THE MOMENT YOU
GET THE STRIPES.

ae of companies will offer you an important sounding
itle.

But how many offer you 2 really important job?

In the Navy, you get one as soon as you earn your
commission. A job with responsibility. A job that re-
quires skill and leadership. A job that’s more than just a
job, because it’s also an adventure.

If that’s the kind of job you’re looking for, speak to
your local recruiter.

_ Steve Burnette will be in the Union Conversation Pit
on Feb. 6, 7 and 8 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Stop by and talk
with him or call him collect in Charlotte, 1-371-6254.

NAVY OFFICER. IT’S NOT JUST A JOB, IT’S AN ADVENTURE.

——
