Prof’s Statement:

All | have to say is this: | inspired that snow sculpture in
front of Chambers, and I’m proud of it. My thanks to L. Simon
Barnes and the Student Extension of the Minority Expression
Network.

Oh yeah -- take Humes, get drunk, fight fight fight, rah rah
rah! Boogie! ;

Student Comments:
' No kidding, “Dirty Dirk” has a penis envy complex or
something. This guy's mind isn’t foul - its phallic! Good
_ Slides, though. ;

The only reason Professor Labban grooms himself to appear
twenty years younger than his actual age is to fool Sam

Spencer so that he won’t get decked when he turns sixty-five
next year.

Drama & Speech

Barber

The first floor of Eu hall abounds with unusual commodi-
ties: a water fountain that conveniently shoots water up your
nose, a desk whose usefulness is the department’s recent
topic of debate, and one Dr. Rupert T. Barber, Jr., Chairman of
the “Drama” Department of Davidson College.

Dr. Barber likes to think of himself as God’s gift to Hodson
Hall. “What would Hodson be without plays like ‘The Mountain
Chorus’ and ‘The College Widow’?” Barber asked. In order to
maintain such a high level of performances and play selections
it is reported that ticket costs will increase 25 percent by April.
“Travelling to New York is getting so expensive these days,”
Barber explained as he climbed into his new Monte Carlo.
“How can | select a good play if | haven’t seen it on
Broadway?”

Keeping up with the playwrights is not Barber’s sole
endeavor. Each term, Barber styles several new fashions from
internationally unknown hat shops. Whether Barber is trying to
relive his days of youth and acting or merely attempting to
cover up his balding eagle has yet to be determined.

Among the most recent changes in the drama department’s
structure, Barber is proudest of the Drama-maior now available
to students. “We worked hard to get it,” said the director with
a smile, “and we’re going to make the majors work extra hard
to keep it.”. When asked how he planned to do this, Rupert
replied, ‘We are thinking of issuing two reviews and a final
exam to Drama 21 students just to weed out the incompetent.
We might even add a 5-page paper or a special project for
upper level courses.”’ Two reviews and maybe a paper! Imagine
that!

Cornell

Jean Cornell really does have a PhD, but her extreme
modesty keeps her frometelling anyone about it.

Gardner —

Perhaps the one word that characterizes Dr. Joseph Gardner
is emotion. Few creatures, other than rocks and trees, are able
to demonstrate the emotional control of Dr. Gardner.

The most recent addition to the Drama department, Gardner
prides himself on the significance of his recently acquired
doctorate degree in scene design. “I really enjoy rearranging
furniture,” Gardner explained. fe

Dr. Joe has entered the’academic forum by enthusiastically
teaching a variety of coufses: one section of Drama 21,
affectionately known as the “pre-lunch siesta,” (or, 50 ways to
while away your winter afternoons), and the ultimate crusher
|. course in the department, the Art of the Film.
iL Gardner’s teaching Style is noted for its animation.
i. eee orees aj stares, profoundly downsloped eyebrows, and
Pere yaa

| eee systeess
u He Cat ee Si ha) ea ek ax. 8S ess’
A

autores --.— “Shure: 44 46s students. can't .

A.

4

cmerbinw tt, SQUID he erute. aby

“Amphibians do have more fun,” pants the sultry Verna Case.

follow me, they should be in Dr. Barber’s section.”

Criticism has been leveled at Gardner’s approach to scene
design study. Several have noted that the course is nothing
more than a glorified substitution for.a high school shop
course. Dr. Joe is quite outspoken on this topic: “C’mon now.
Shop is shop; there’s nothing glorified about it at all.” We
couldn’t agree with you more, Dr. Joe (good compromise,
right?).

Economics

Avinger

After Randall Kincaid came back from D.C. and told Bobby
about the blast he had in Washington, Professor Avinger is
now more eager than ever to’get on the wagon and the
government payroll. He faces a serious micro-economic
dilemma: he will have to trash his uncouth Triumph and buy a
more fashionable pick-up.

Kincaid

Back at Davidson from his stint with the EPA, Dr. Kincaid is
pushing the campus police to swap their gas-guzzling squad
cars for more economic VW Rabbits. He fails to realize that

Captain Jackie Hughes cannot fit himself in one of the
sub-compacts.

Lindsey

Professor Lindsey, a graduate of the Country Club of
Georgia, deals in statistics and accounting, with a little
business law thrown in for variety’s sake. His dry wit_is
Surpassed only by his clockwork, tin-soldier appearance at the
beginning of each class.

Professor Lindsey loves to nail students in class but he is
quick to add, “We're all pulling for you!” The student will find
ie preparing assignments on schedule is an essential pain in

e ass.

Reviews take approximately three days to complete but then
the exam takes five, so what the hell.

Professor Lindsey is generally available in his dark and
murky office for consultation. Most students agree that the
textbooks for his courses make lovely and impressive
additions to their personal collections, pass or fail.

Nelson

Bost CORA! CORA! Dr. Nelson is often referred to by
me o her liberal arts economics students as La belle dame
_Sans merci. The other yahoos at Davidson, who haven't taken

 advanta
| iia ge of the liberal arts curriculum, merely refer to'her as

ame sans merci. And the pre-meds just s
as . a & . in ¥
Ckpediatrical allusion, that Dr. Nelson was waanee ona lemdn”” :

“iQUS;-than., why, Ne. Nelson constantly...

re

