6—The Davidsonian— September 21, 1979

Sports Scripts

Women’s Cross Country

The women’s cross country team, boosted by a second place

finish in the Stone Mountain Road Race, will have a two week
layover before their Sept. 27 meet at Lynchburg. Coach Sally
Bondurant was pleased with her team's performance on the
five-mile course in which the Davidson women placed behind Berry
College and ahead of Georgia State.

Senior Susan Davidson was the bright spot of the race for the
women, setting a new school record for the course. Other top
finishers for the Davidson women were Carie Nunn, seed Willis
und Lisa Jenkins.

‘The team plans to use the next two weeks to heal some minor
injuries and improve their conditioning. ‘‘We're by no means going
to slack off over the period,” a player said. —ROB MOORE

Soccer

After Jimmy Hawk scored Davidson's second goal last
Wednesday against. Winthrop, a definite feeling of excitement filled
the stands and the bench. Davidson went on to lose 4-2 in a
20-minute overtime, ee ee
Winthrop game.

Coach Karl Kremser feels the game was important because the
team “moved up a step.”

The Cats showed a more mature nature than in their previous
two games. They played closely and competitively against an
excellent team. In a game filled with controversy, the team stayed

“cool.”

Evidence of this can be seen in Davidson's first goal. Literally at
the gun ending the first half, Pete Sluiter poked the ball over the
line in front of Winthrop’s goal to tie the game 1-1.

Davidson had another major.test Saturday as the Cats travelled
to Durham to play powerhouse Duke.In a game totally dominated
by the Blue Devils, Davidson lost 3-0. High points were the play
opf Mike lordanou in goal, alternating with Doug Schnessler. The
return of Captain Kevin Robbins and Dan Robinson to the defen se,
moving Pete Sluiter to wing fullback, and moving freshman Bill
Wahl up to halfback.

Despite a pair of losses this week, the soccer team feels these
were good experience— steps toward the play needed for a
successful season. Now 2-2 (the Marshall forfeit has now been
rescheduled), Davidson plays Presbyterian Thursday, St. Andrews
Saturday, East Carolina Monday, and N.C. State Wednesday—a

- real test to Davidson’s endurance and skill. —TED JONES

Pro Drafts

Two of Davidson’s most outstanding athletes were drafted by
professional teams during the summer. On June 5th, senior Bob
Lapple was selected by the Cincinnatti Reds baseball club in the
seventh round.

John Gerdy, a ‘79 graduate, was tapped in the third round of the
National Basketball League's June 24th draft by the New Jersey
Nets.

_Lapple, a native of Thornwood, N.Y., was chosen All-Southern

in each of his three years of play for Davidson’ s baseball
team. He was also All-NCAA District 3 for the past two years.

Gerdy is the all-time leading scorer in Davidson basketball
history, and ranked sixth in scoring average in the NCAA last
year. He, too, was a three-time All-Southern Conference selection
and was honored as the Southern Conference Player of the Year for

1979-80. —BILL WILSON
Field Hockey

The Lady Cats will open their season(tomorrow) Friday at Wake
Forest. The first home game will be Monday against Winthrop.
Game time will be at 4pm.

Saturday, September 15, the team competed in a five team round
robin scrimage. Davidson defeated High Point 4-0, Wake Forest
1-0, and an N.C. club team 2-0. They were defeated by scores of 1-0
by Catawba and Pfeiffer.

‘The team feels the 1-0 defeats will not darken the victorious
outlook for the rest of the year. In the next encounter, the team
promises to reverse the score, if not double it according to one
source. The team is plaving well. and, with the excellence of Cindy
Curtis at the goal, they look forward to a decisive win on Friday.

—ANNE HOCKETT

2 staff is petitioning students interested in
ats this | year to come by the basketball office,

BER tT MOBLEY

Cunningham
Fine Arts Building

Another outstanding job by . . .

4

BARGER

CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

“Good Builders Since 1925"

M. A. Wicker
President & Treasurer

Exec. Peroriaeee Goss

384 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 28115

New Wildcat Checking helps
Davidson students 3 ways.

Piedmont Bank & Trust Co. has
developed a new Wildcat Checking
plan just for Davidson students.
Here’s what it gives you:

1. Simplified checking. You can
write up to 10 checks a month for
only $2 a month. There’s no min-

imum balance, and additional your own Wildcat Checking
checks are only 20¢. When you account. See what we mean when
take a summer vacation, there’sno we say “We Care.” _
charge at all if you don’t use your
account.
2. Master Charge card. You get ~
your own-Master Charge credit
card, honored nationwide, good
for up to _— credit.

3. Convenient statements. Each
month you'll get detailed state-

- ments of your checking account
activities. Eee
Only Piedmont Bank offers you all
three of these benefits. Walk
across Nain Street today and open

Piedmont Bank & Trust Co.
MEMBER F.D.LC.

