Propaganda

Davidson
Mike Mason:

Somewhere deep in the bowels of
Chambers, hidden behind the dusty,
unused Student Evaluation Forms,
there lurks an insidious propaganda
organization, the likes of which has been
seen elsewhere only in Nazi Germany.
Drafting manuscripts of lingual. delu-
sion, its only mission ist to seek out and
ensnare new freshman-like forms with
forms like promises of utopia and good
food. Yes, the same organization that
monthly produces such verbal flatulence
as the Juvidson Update is once again
turning out those nafarious pamphlets
with which the homes of innocent high

school seniors across the nation are soon ~

Lo be inundated.

A few of these malevolent mind mixers
are worthy of particular note. Take, for
instance, the 1979-80 Davidson College
Catalogue (please, as I was sent 18
copies and could only give most of them
away as Christmas presents). The cover
itself is enough to get an idea of the
misleading content. Have yo ever
beheld such a vision of youthful purity
and moral stoicism? This is a football
game, yet there's not one 12-oz. bottle,
not one unentranced face, not one hair
out of place, especially if you count Will
Terry, sitting in the middle of it all (yes,
he does show up on film): Vhesc kids
have never heard of venereal disease;
they would flex their elbows if you asked
to see a joint, and would go to a pot
party in a‘ monogrammed “I love
Tupperware’} t-shirt. Yet audacity
means nothing to the Admissions Office,
and on and on they fabricate this evil
snare. ;

And the statistics those little missives
expound are amazing. For instance, did
you know that our own E.H. ‘Little
Library contains 250,000 volumes, and
thus has (gasp) a tremendous book-to-
student ratio? Isn't that fab? But
exactly what does it mean? Why, it
means that if everybody withdrew
134.91124 books at once, we could
completely empty the library, and
everybody would have a pretty good
sized pile to play with. But what does it
mean to us academic powerhouses if
most, of these books should be of the
same genre as Hildebrandt'’s 99 Best

i. Jokes? Not much. Other import-
ant figures are often omitted. -For
instance, apparently 80‘vof those
entering Davidson graduate: one fails to
understand, however, that the other
20‘% succumbed to terminal celibacy and
died panting at a soap chip, or else failed
to develop the necessary immunity to
the bacteria tov 1ich the Freshman class
is daily exposed at Richards House.

Another case in’ point: the same
pamphlet states that 70 percent of the
graduating class is, accepted by profes-
sional schools; itudoesn't mention,
however, that only~®.percent are ever
accepted by society as a whole, and

that of these, only" four have ever been’.

invited to dinner’ at somebody's house,
and even then they had to bring the
dessert. The tuition figure is also. good
for a-chuckle— $5,008. Tell me about it.

In the future, I would suggest
showing -prospective students the ‘real
Davidson, let it attract what it may.
Why not have them visit the Library
during Happy Hour (4pm-lam) and. let
them, te in a little Bacchanalian

revelry? They say the Reference section .

is great, it = don't we on. the

e

Vike Stimon isa sal writer. for The’

1 movidsonian.

PIRG Should Keep Trying

Chip Legerton

Last week, the Davidson’ Student
Body voted against a referendum to
continure the past method of funding for
the Davidson chapter of NC-PIRG.
This vote is evidence of both the
dissatisfaction with the method of
funding and with the organization of
PIRG itself.

Originally, the referendum questioned
the funding of PIRG; hovever, the
members of PIRG attempted to shift its
focus to the question of PIRG’s exis-
tence. Granted, PIRGis a statewide
organization and requires a solid funding
base. However, could not this money (or
part of it) be raised-through student
contributions, instead of the somewhat
deceptive automatic billing procedure?

If not, should a student organization
be kept alive through preferential fund-
ing ‘procedures if the students fail to
support it? The remainder of the funds
could seemingly be raised through
various local projects by the students
involved. The excuse of “not having

enough time” to raise money is a poor
one at best. If the members of PIRG
themselves do not possess the motiva-
tion to raise money for their organiza-
tion, what justification can they give for
the support of other students?

Many students hope the Davidson
chapter of PIRG will at least make an
attemptyto stay alive while also reinter-
preting its goals. Mainly, much more
student interest needs to be aroused.
Ironically the referendum itself showed
that PIRG can communicate with the
students when the need arises.

The local chapter must make more
efficient use of the state organiza-
tion. Local projects backed up by the
research facilities of NC-PIRG should be
central on student involvement. A much
greater percentage of funds must be
utilized here at Davidson, not simply
handed over to the full-time employees
in Durham and Greensboro. Student
research is not very expensive and- it
appears doubtful that the state organiz-

ation would abandon the Davidson |

Chapter while it regains its footing.
Special interest an political issues. need
to be kept as specific and separate topics
and not be allowed to become the focal
points of PIRG policy.

Davidson's primarily academic atmo-
sphere lends itself to an inward focus
which tends to obscure the much
heralded and feared ‘real world” which
exists beyond the railroad tracks. PIRG,
along with other active community
oriented organizations such as the “Y"
Student Service Corps, could easily ~
expand the Davidson education to
include the needs of the entire communi-
ty.

PIRG is in an excellent position to
serve the “public interest.’’ However,
Davidson students have shown that they
will not be swayed by false appeals to
social righteousness. Both college and
community would benefit from an active
and well organized-PIRG. So at leas give
it a try. What is there to lose?

Davidson Can Be Appreciated

Rick Johnston

Parents of Davidson students visiting
this weekend may hear their sons and
daughters criticize the college. The fact
is that students see weaknesses of
Davidson. that weren't noticed during
the first tour of the campus.

A small number of courses, a dull
social atmosphere, limited facilities, and
a low probability of receiving every
desired course are all too visible as we
submerge into Davidson life. In fact, the.
weaknesses of Davidson College may be
so apparent to that we might be
forgetting its strengths.

After attending Georgetown Univer-
sity, Vanderbilt University and the
University of Madrid last year, I have
come to appreciate Davidson College

more than ever before. In many ways .

Davidson is superior to most colleges

Davidson students who wish to regis-
ter for courses can do so with little

problems. Registration at most universi-
ties is a nightmare, where some students

. may wait for more than four hours ins
many as 15 different lines. After
apending three Borel « HOt yet et ©

August to register for courses, meals,
insurance, etc., I prefer Davidson's
system.

One might feel Davidson students
have a difficult time during exam period,
but compared with schools on a semester
system with scheduled exams, we have it
easy. At these schools, it is not
uncommon to have four exams during

University one might not bump into a
certain friend for months, while at many
other universities one can pass a day on
campus without seeing anyone he
knows.

We feel little need to lock our doors at
Davidson, while at Georgetown, people
always lock their doors yet many
burglaries still occur. A

the first three days of exam period, and —

then have a week to study for the fifth
exam. Studying for these exams is more
difficult, since one has to remember in
December material that began in Au-
gust. 7

At 10:30 a.m., almost every Davidson é

professor is in his office with the door
wide open. If professors are not in their
offices, they are easily reached at their

aren Raeneaiianels Hamas: At Vanderbilt ae

1D. card must be «
acampus security officer before entering
any dorm, and students still feel unsafe.
At Vanderbilt a girl was raped on the
front steps of her dorm.

Dees ee oe oe
Honor System a regular part of
life. The’ ‘idea of an’ “hong code ‘at

dents supported it. ‘They

honor system |

