8—The Davidsonian— April 20, 1979
lotes on Students

Phi Beta Kappa

“New members were elected to the Phi Beta Kappa Chapter of
Davidson College on April 3, 1979. Members include Dan Argin
. Timothy Alan Bonsack, Mark Alan Brooks, Stanton
Timothy Bryan, John Rood Cunningham, III, Glen Mason
, Jack Chris Davis, Frances Elizabeth Dubose, Clifton
Paige Flynn, III, John Andrew Gelly, Karen Sue Gilbert, Stephen
Gregory Hankins, David Madison Hardaway, John Gary Hart,
Elizabeth Ann Holmes, and Carlton Avery Jenkins.

Other new members are Kenneth Andrew Kirk, Mary Frances
Leopold, Christopher Wendel Loeb, Nancy MacConnachie,
Harrison Leroy Marshall, Jr., Catherine Elizabeth Neisler, Edward
Hughes Nicholson, Jr., Margaret ‘Anne Noel, Kenneth Wescott
Norwood, Jr., Richard Edwin Offutt, Jr., Maria Monica Patterson,
Wilkins Carter Poe, Steven Bryant Porter, David Jeffrey
Rawlings, Timothy John Robinson, Thomas Orland Ruby,
Stephen Edward Sellers, William Robert Smith, Jr., Ellen Renee
Stebbins, Torence John Trout, Jr., Frederick Harold Weber, Jr.,
Melody Wilder, Fai Wong, and Hunter Earl Woodall.

The initiation of the new members will be held on Thursday, May
10. Dr. Kenneth M. Greene, Executive Secretary of the United
Cease of Phi Beta Kappa, will conduct the initiation. —

Travels Abroad

The following students have been accepted to attend the St.
Anne's program this summer at St. Anne’s College in Oxford,
England: John H. Boggess, Robert T. Bowie, Brian A. Conley,
Meridith Durden, Kent Dyer, John Fetcho, Ann Garner, Mary
Gray Gilchrist, Sharon Gravett, Hiner Hamrick, Timothy harden,
Robert Hull, Stuart Jordan, Will Long, James A. Lytle, Scot
Macconomy, Jim Robertson, Virginia Robertson, Ann Sheaffer,
Jeff Stidham, Scott Wall. 2

Recently selected were those students who will have their Junior
Year Abrod: in 1979-80.

Students going to Germany are James H. Baskin, David W.
Lyons, Phil Howerton and Nick Nicolette.

France JYA students include Susan L. Beesley, Kathy E.
Boylston, Mary B. Booth, Donald H. Caldwell, Jr., Julia L.,
Eichelberger, James W. Garrett, Paige Hall, Sissy Hammond,
Charity A. Kimmel, Leisa G. Lifer, Dean Marshall, Merle Miller,
Agnes W. Norfleet, Follin Smith, Nelson Simon, Greg Zeph, and
Mark Thomas.

The JYA-England students will be located at three different
universities. Richard G. Jenkins will be enrolled at Reading, and
Deborah H. Carlton will be attending Buckingham.

Students who will be enrolled at East Anglia in Norwich include
Jamie T. King, Martin ‘McCoy, Andrew E. Starnes, James A.
Tholen, and David W. Webb.

Lili Kraus, renowned pianist, here shown with the late Dr: Albert Schweitzer,

at 8:15 pm.

will perform in Love

“You snould experience heaven and hell alike”

By MERIDETH DURDEN
Senior Features Editor

Lili Kraus, the reigning
queen of pianists, will perform
at Davidson this Friday night.
Ms. Kraus, reknowned for her
mastery of Mozart, is the final
performer in this year’s Artist
Series.

Born in Hungary, educated in
Australia, a resident of England
for most of her life and now a
North Carolinian, Ms. Kraus
has also lived in a forced labor
camp.

She was captured by the
Japanese in Java and sentenced
on trumped-up charges. There
Ms. Kraus, who started her
pianistic studies at age six and
became a full fledged professor
at the Vienna Academy of
music at age twenty, discov-
ered for the first time that
music was deep inside her.
Though she could not perform,
she went over and over the
masterpieces of her repertoire
mentally.

Ms. Kraus feels that she is a
more profound musician and a
more sensitive interpreter due
to the war experience. ‘If you

are to be an artist,’’ Kraus
points out, ‘‘you should experi-
ence heaven and hell alike. You
must be prepared to take hurt,
for you cannot really love
without it. The mountains are
exactly as high as the sea is
deep.”

Kraus’ respect for her field is
obvious when she begins to talk
about music. ‘‘In any era’s
output we've had perhaps 79
percent trash, 20 percent good-

genius. So we have no-right to
expect anything more now.”’

As her performances’ show,
Kraus really puts herself into
her music, ‘Objectivity in mu-
sic is rubbish,’’ she stated.
Understandably, she bemoans
the lack of feeling in today’s
performances.

Kraus feels constant expo-
sure to contemporary music is
largely responsible for cutting
off today’s young performers

Art auction
By HERB JACKSON
Special to the Davidsonian
For the first time, the Annual
Davidson College Art a

inane cso “Fee Sd
“ofterea.. a ‘sr ar ae NS CEADA Gi = st

Aesw anc ou DevoOm

<a SAB.

and Beanery —

pel A north of Davidson,

_. Phone; 892-6686. |

to-very-good and one percent

ACTIVE SPORTSWEAR
for the ACTIVE STUDENT

Lord Jeff
Woolrict

Store Hours: 9 am. til 5:30 pm.
Monday thru Saturday,
except for Tuesday aftemoons.

—

a tersey S568 Net:

ys ri dsl sie 4

MTR se

DOWNTOWN MOORESVILLE |
ie eayateal eocaee

aps

egy yin wollc, em} ali obo
