Literary Magazines

Gill Holland

This morning I read for the first time
“The Glory of His Nostrils,’’ which
along with ‘‘The Mother-in-Law,’’ also
from Beasts of the Southern Wild and
Other Stories, has my instant vote for
great short stories of North Carolina in
the seventies.

It is an outrageous love story about
widow Wanda Quincey and Dr. O.B.
Benjamin (‘‘Courtesy Title Only,’ his
card reads), erstwhile abortionist and
defrocked MD, two very yeasty types
you should skip if you want something in
the genteel tradition:

The author is Doris Betts, teacher and
administrator at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill and judge of the
1979 Vereen Bell Creative Writing
Contest for Davidson students.

She will make the awards and give a
reading of her work at four o’clock on
Tuesday, April 24th, in the 900 Room.
Mrs. Betts enjoys a national reputation
as a writer and we are fortunate to have
her on campus.

As former director of the fresh-
man-sophomore English program at

UNC-CH and present assistant dean of-

the honors program -of the University,
she symbolizes the all-important axiom
that the so-called ‘‘creative genres’’ like
fiction, poetry, and drama go hand-in-
hand with basic essay-writing and that
good writing is good writing whatever
form it takes.

My first memories of writing at
Davidson do not go back to the year
Robert Frost was the Vereen Bell judge,
but they do reach the final years of the
old Sigma Upsilon writing fraternity in
the early sixties.

By then a good manuscript voted on
by the members won you entrance into
the group; Professor Cornwell tells me
that in his student days one had to be
invited to join. Under both systems it
was a prestigious club.

Supported by students and faculty
alike, it met first in the various
fraternity houses and later had its home
in one of the Jackson Court houses now
inhabited by the math people.

If my memory serves me correctly we

also met in Erwin Lodge, now a ballet -

studio where dancers practice under a
ceiling that once echoed the poems and
fiction of the month as well as the latest
installment of the running novel that
was passed from member to member as a
challenge to individual devilment.

The monthly new chapter by a fresh
hand usually forced on the preceding
ones bizarre transmogrifications that
now can be found only in the gothic
humor behind topical guides to courses
at the college. By the late sixties the
writing fraternity had vanished and a
group met informally in faculty homes;
today it occasionally gathers i in the 900
Room. From the early years to the
present the climax of campus writing has
been the Vereen Bell Contest, a memor-
ial to a promising Davidson bh uadt who
died in World War II.

In former years, subsequent to ‘the
awards ceremony, the prize-winning
authors read their manuscripts in chapel
before the whole school. Today they
read at the informal get-together of local
poets and poetasters—all of whom are
urged to read something of their own to
the crowd—in the evening after the four

o'clock ceremony and the dinner for the
visiting judge and winners.

The quality of writing has remained
high; I can remember vividly a powerful
story about the advent and departure of
“an oil-drilling company to a small
Louisiana town read back in the days of
chapel, and I know of several of us who
still talk about another story read not so
« [png sgp.in the 900 Room on the evening
of awards day. ee

For the most part, student’ writing
has been encouraged through the years
by informal readings, independent pro-
jects under the rubric of English and
student work on The Miscellany; Profes-
sor Purcell during his chairmanship took
a special interest in promoting student
writing.

Now, with the new R. Windley Hall
Award for Freshman Writing and a
creative writing course taught by Profes-
sor Abbott, writing can gain even more
ground at Davidson.

It might be added that a bit of
glamour was added for this class when
senior Steve Turner won the Charlotte
Writer’s Contest for Poetry, a neighbor-
hood plum picked by Davidsonians
before, notably by President Sam
Spencer a.few years back.

The first issue of Hobart’s Park
(delightful title!) shows much promise as
a cross-section of writing from the
different faces of life at Davidson.
Politics, biology, stories, poems, essays,
and reviews-I leafed through it all with
enthusiasm and anticipation.

The level of writing comes across as
being quite high for this initial venture.
Editors-Lyman Collins, Amanda Hall
and Greg Hankins are to be congratu-
lated on getting the whole project off the
ground and, with their lieutenants,
laying before us good reading matter
from the campus.

The graphics give us a taste of what
might be in the future; the selection is
praiseworthy too. But as far as
appearance goes, in my opinion Hobart’s
Park is still a venture of promise rather
than final achievement.

Final editorial finish has to be better
before future readers are to pay much
respect to this publication. The graphics
suffered terribly in reproduction. It is
hard to appreciate good drawings and
photographs and writing if typos and
misspellings and the dimness of the
prints short circuit our attention as we
look for things to please and instruct us.

The impression around campus was
that the magazine did not get the praise
its contents warranted because not
enough care had been taken in proof-
reading and printing at the final stage.

One reason to keep high hopes for
Hobart's Park is that we need a record of

the intellectual and artistic activities of _

the college year to year. Here is the
space for that. We all want to read a
selection of the best from the Vereen Bell
and R. Windley Hall contests each
spring. We want to read what the new
interest in local oral history brings up.

Old timers are a rich vein here as else-
where, good material no farther away
than a tape recorder and a few hours of
pleasurable listening. I’d bet there is
plenty left on the cutting room floor from
Dr. Mary Beaty’s just completed book
on the town of Davidson.

Hobart's Park could help give us a
sense of place. It could also provide a
delightful visual record of the shows in
the Gallery.

It is a pity when a show goes down all
that is left is the poster, not. even an
interview with the artist or a gallery
talk. There are only a few memories left
of alumnus Ken Freed’s exhibition this
winter; soon Russ Warren’s show will be
off the walls.

Of course the problem reaches beyond
the scope of one publication to the larger
area‘of a record of life ‘at, Davidson.
Guest lecturers, for whom plenty of
well-spent. money goes out every year,
probably leave the campus wondering
why more use has not been made of the

text of talks read before a Davidson. .

audience.
nie films that should go.

(se nn, page. 12}.

ety, ith ick

MEHR ar. nme ne

I sgn

April 20, 1979—The Dat

(Gia Partain)

~ Miss Eva’s Cathouse _

Bill Peeples :

et

- Ruggell, who

Many folks have read or heard of little
old ladies with houses full of cats, but
few have ever known such women.

One such person, Miss Eva Russell,
not only managed a house piled high
with felines, but a confrontation with the
president of the United States as well.

Back when Lyndon Johnson was in
the White House, the Feds wanted to
tear her house down to build a parking
lot for a new Post Office. When
surveyors put up stakes in her backyard,
she was furious.

Miss Russell went out back and pulled
up the markers, which made good
firewood. Each time new stakes appear-
ed she removed them.

Her most impressive strategy in the
campaign to save her house was con-
ducted over the telephone. Every night
for weeks, she called Lyndon Johnson,
but the White House switchboard re-
fused to connect her.

“Time and again she called, “and one_

night the President finally picked up the
phone. He assured her that ene, house
would not beharmed.

For over ten years, she eae nn
secluded in her dark abode, semen
by nearly a huridred cats that weren

‘Dosiors refoned to msalcs ass calls.
because the place hadn’t beef 6leaned in
_years. The mellmen wee scared: 0.90 9

the front door.

No one could figure out why. Mise
deecent from.

claimed
«Sif Migs Mae enieenete o

William the Conqueror, chose to live as
she did. |. She certainly did not have to for
financial reasons.

Her father had been a wealthy man,
and he left her quite a fortune. She
inherited a great deal of property,
including the fresh water spring that was
at one time the local swimming hole,
‘*Russell’s Pool.”

She had no heirs, and everyone
wondered who she might leave her
property to. The Postal Service thought
it might just have.the last laugh.
Anyhow, as Eva grew older, the

When she finally passed away and her
will was disclosed, the city fathers

ee
to the

The bequest included several stipula-
tions. For one, the house could not be
destroyed. The cats had to be cared for.
and were free to occupy the premises. .

Most of all, Miss Russell intended her
house to be open to the entire com- .
munity. twenty-four hours a day be- |
cause, as the will stated, “everybody

‘needs a laughing place.” -

Tia 8 on ie Siemon
