Is The Senate Doing Anything?

John Jackson

Working with the SGA Senate has
been one of the most satisfying things
I've ever done; however, there have been
some frustrating aspects to my work.
One of the most frustrating things I’ve
dealt with is the question, “Is the SGA
doing anything?”

My first reaction to the question was
anger because I've been pleased with the
work we’ve done. Then I realized that
there was a good reason for the criticism:
the problem was a lack of publicity and
visibility. I accept complete blame for
this error,-and I'll initiate its correction
in this article.

1. TRUSTEES: The Senate is the
liaison between the students and the
Trustees. Last winter’s student-Trustee
dinner was very successful, and another
is being planned. Also, students from
around the campus are writing each
Trustee every several weeks. This should

keep all the Trustees informed about :

Davidson news and student opinion.

2. ATHLETICS; The athletic com-
mittee has two main projects underway.
First, it is solving the problem students
had last year with basketball tickets.
This project is all but completed; there
will be a ticket window at each game for
students only, and students can get
these tickets with their college IDs. The
second project is a complete examination
or our athletic program and budget. The
study is not aimed at the disadvantages
of our program; rather, it is trying to get
a total picture of both the advantages
and disadvantages. Several other
schools like Davidson are being contac-
ted for comparable data.

3. SECURITY: ‘tne security commit-
tee is in charge of running the traffic
court, which it does every other week. It
is investigating the problems with the
emergency phone system; this problem
involves both the town of Davidson and
the school, so the committee has set up a
meeting of the Davidson mayor, school
officials, and students in an attempt to
improve the system. An examination is
underway to determine if more lighting
is needed for our campus; Mr. Meetze
said he would add lighting as the
committee suggests. Finally, the Senate
is starting a security awareness program
in an attempt to reduce the current
outbreak of campus thefts.

4. COURSE EVALUATION: We are
completely revising the old course
evaluation booklet. The new booklet,
which will be sent to all incoming
freshmen, will include information on
how to balance your workload, what to
take if you haven’t chosen a major, how
to get started in the pre-med program,
what to expect from the humanities
program, how Davidson works advanced
placement, etc.

5. SCHOOL BUDGET: The trustees
give students and faculty a chance to
give input on the school budget each
year. This committee is studying our
budget and its priorities; fifteen other
schools have sent us information about
their budgets. The committee will use
the findings of its study to educate
students on our budget and budgets in
general. This work will insure that the
student input is well informed and well
organized.

6. RADIO: The Senate has investi-
gated the possibility of getting some
type of radio station that could be
completely run by students. Dr. Spencer
has said that he will support the project
if the Senate can show there is enough
student interest to run the’station. The
Senate will try to measure this interest

he next two weeks.
only outlined the basics of the
Senate's current activities; there are
more details’ and other projects that I'd
be happy to discuss with anyone.

The members of the Senate are
working -hard; however, itis very
possible that we aren't doing something

that we should be doing. If this is the
case, we can only rely on the student
body to tell us. Also, if you are
interested in working on any of the
projects I’ve mentioned, please let me,
know. In the meantime, I'll make sure,
that our work is more visible than it has,
heen.

John Jackson is the president of the

Butch
Croaks Off

Bulldog Peeples

Butch is dead. Long live Butch. Long
live son of Butch. Son of Butch? Which
one?

Alas, he who lives chasing cars will die
chasing cars. Parked cars and moving
cars. And trains, trucks, motorcycles,
the mailman, the mailman’s wife.

Butch, rest his soul, never knew where
his next car or new girlfriend would come.
from. Only a ‘stud like Butch could live
such an exemplary day to day existence.
What a life,‘bagging Zzzzz’s in front of
the laundry and keeping the rush hour
traffic from General Time on the move.

Butch was a truly American hero: a
lone wolf against society, a definite
individual, a fugitive, frequently arrest-
ed for failure to carry positive. proof of
identity, a dog-catcher’s nightmare.

“I knew something was wrong when
he didn’t show up for football practice
the other day,’’ lamented a Wildcat
starter. ‘‘Butch would come and watch
us work out every afternoon. One day he
didn’t make it.’’

Davidson's favorite canine finally met
his match when, crazed by exhaust
fumes, he tangled with Mack. Mack is a
tcuck that came barrelling through Dav-
idson pulling a double-wide mobile
home. Butch landed in the trailer’s
microwave oven, fulfilling his final
request. He always did say he wanted to
be cremated.

Over half the dogs in Mecklenburg
County showed up for the reading of
Butch’s will by executors Pat and Mike
Sheridan. They all claimed blood kinship
and the right to share in Butch’s estate.

With unparalleled foresight, Butch
realized that his vast fortune would be
rendered miniscule if divided amongst
the hundreds of claimants. So Butch
remembered his alma mater and be-
queathed -his lifetime supply of lawn
fertilizer to Davidson College. He also
left his. vast collection of stolen license
plates to,the Davidsoniana Room. Army
ROTC’s Scabbard and Blade Society
inherited his dog tags.

Last. spring, the Davidsonian ran a
column celebrating the community’s
canine population, with Butch as its
reigning monarch. Since the royal suc-
cession depends on brute strength,
record in combat, and-a high degree of
gratuitous stud service, rather than
heredity or popular election, several

‘prize matches and decathlons must take

place before a new ruler is chosen.

Memorial servicéa for Butch will be
held on Richardson Field at half-time of
the Furman game. Bonehead and the
Brick Brothers will preside at this
tearjerker of a ceremony, while the Pep
Band will play taps, and ROTC will fire
a ten gun salute.

Bill Peeples is the Executive Editor

The Cream ofthe Crop _

Frank Santore

So far, all the pleas for merit-based
admissions and the elimination of the
“Sex Ratio’’ as a determinant for
admissions at Davidson College have

fallen upon the very deaf ears of the -

administration and the Board of Trus-
tees! It seems as if every logical
argument for the termination of the
Ratio has been refuted by the Trustees,
Dr. Spencer, and the upper-echelon of
Davidson.

Just maybe, however, the argument
which shall be presented herein will
strike an often missed chord in the
collective heart of the Trustees and the
school administration. For purposes of
convenience, and because I don’t know
each and every one of the men and
women on the Board of Trustees or in the
administration, please permit me to
make some generalizations in the course
of my argument.

The Board of Trustees end the
administration can be components of a
“Who's Who” work. Numbered among
the Board of Trustees’ members are
several influential bankers and mini-
sters, and ex-Secretary of State, and the
only Republican governor North Caro-
lina has had in this century.

The members of the Davidson admini-
stration are distinguished ladies and
gentlemen in their own right, having
experienced many ‘an academic trial
and/or tribulation in their careers.

I can guess that the one characteristic
which most every member of the
administration has in common with each
other is a political ideology called
conservatism, which this writer, as most
of you know, also espouses.

As conservatives, these men and
women embrace individualism. They
believe with their hearts that individual
initiative, drive, and desire, whether it
be applied to building a business or
improving a business which they have
inherited, are the keys to financial
success:

As a result, these people resent heavy
governmental intervention in their af-
fairs, and rightfully so.

They battle taxation.

They lambaste bureaucrats.

They detest anyone telling them how
to run their own business, .e.g. through
imposed hiring QUOTAS.

What you find at Davidson, however,
is a different story, a sort of “‘Mr. Hyde”’
efféct ‘which has become characteristic
of these men and women as regards their
dealings with Davidson College.

“You see, these men and women hae
prostituted the various. conservative
principles for which they fight in the
“secular” world; they have sold their
c@nservatism for a Ratio which tears
the very foundation of the institution—
Davidson—which they love, both aca-
demically and socially.

These people will fight the Federal
government tooth and nail over the
Feds’ distorted vision of equality
through numerical quotas; however,
they apply these same quotas to the
admissions standards of Davidson Col-
lege. Why?

None of the arguments which the
Trustees and/or administration have
presented in favor of retention of the
Ratio (for example, the assumption that
women would not enter into fields
conducive to large financial contribu-
tions to Davidson College in later years)
are valid. In fact, this writer, a
conservative who detests the Equal
Rights Amendment and many of the
things (e.g. liberalized abortion) which
the National Organization for Women
advocate, feels that the promulgation of
the Ratio represents an elitist, sexist
attitude on the part of the people in
power at Davidson.

Just as any nation ‘‘cannot endure
half slave and half free,”’ thus Davidson
College will be seriously affected by a
Ratio which presents its coeds as second
class citizens. In order to prevent
possible future acts which might em-
barrass DC in the eyes of the people of
the state of North Carolina, I suggest
that the powers that be of Davidson
College either: 1) establish an admis-
sions system which eliminates sex
quotas so that the BEST freshman class,
be it male- or female-dominated, matric-
ulates at Davidson each year, or 2)
eliminate the coed system altogether.

I close with a quote from one of
Davidson’s most. esteemed graduates,
himself a member of the Board of
Trustees, The Honorable Dean Rusk: ~

If ever there were a time in human

history when an older generation

should be trying to help a younger
generation prepare for the tasks
ahead, the time is now.. '

. How true, Mr. Rusk, how true; one

must realize that Davidson ‘College cai _

play a role in the future of our ‘world only ©
if the best people, the cream of the crop, :

are admitted to-our Peveiescl ?

SeAteuditves ose
The lithograph | is by Ralph Lasley.

4
a]
