John Gerdy antes ; his first dunk in recent memory, against the

Good or bad,

By BERT MOBLEY ating victory over highly ranks games, a win like that
Sports Editor ed North Carolina last weekend ay
N.C. State, Notre Dame, as anexample. tion tremendously. -
Duke, Wake Forest, Furman, With the difficulty of the S.C. Cartmill said that Davidoon
Indiana. These basketball teams then, why do the Cats will continue to get the prestig-
teams would be formidable op- need to add to their problems ious games. There is a bit
position for anyone in the with national powerhouses? optimism ‘that the Biedenbach
country. They are consistently  Cartmill stated that the athletic Era will return Davidson to the
among the finest basketball department wants to renew the basketball heights of ten years
teams in the nation. Why are Duke contract and the Notre ago.under Lefty Dreisell. There
these teams on Davidson’s Dame contract, also, when it is no doubt.that the Cate’ new
schedule? runs out in a few years.-The coach is well-respected around
According to Athletic Direc- schedule for the 1980-81 season _ the nation and promises to be a
tor Thomas Cartmill, basketball will be made this June and great influence in years to come.

schedules are

Southern Conference schools

usually com- have to ‘‘get the big ones Biedenbach “has to have ‘tune
posed from four Sports early,’’ according to Cartmill. to get the ¢lass of players that
to six years in at Cartmill explained that get- he needs.” He needs time to
advance. The Davidson ting the prestigious schools on ~ ‘recruit and ‘build. the program.
teams that Da- the schedule is important even A schedule of nationally prom-

the

vidson faces
this season were set up years
ago when Head Coach Eddie
Biedenbach was coach at a
school (N.C. State) that kept
beating the ’Cats. There is
nothing that this year’s staff
can do but play the games and
hope for the best. Next year is
the same way. Davidson will
still play some of the elite teams
of the country. Is this good or
bad?

This question is difficult to
analyse and answer. Does the

- factor of prestige override the

fact that Davidson loses (and
loses, etc.)? What is more
important -- playing big-name
schools and getting the publici-
ty, as bad as it is, or playing
teams of lesser talent and
winning?

Cartmill is quick to point out
that part of the reason for
Davidson’s difficult schedule
depends directly on the quality
of basketball in the Southern
Conference. The team used to
play ten S.C. games each
season, but NCAA rules now
require that the conference
teams play round-robin tourna-
ments. In Cartmill’s words,
“The Southern Conference is no
longer a weak sister: it’s tough
basketball.”

This season has held that

point up very well. Davidson
has lost all but one of its
conference games. The South-
ern Conference teams have
fared well against other teams

though they are usually the
victors against the Cats. The
receipts at the gate are a major
reason. The big games draw
well and are important econom-
ically. Cartmill explained the
Davidson dilemma by saying,
“the ‘bigs’ bring in money, but
we cannot depend on this at the
expense of the stability of the
basketball program.”

The Atlantic Coast Confer-
ence has been one of the premier
conferences in basketball for
years, and any game against an
A.C.C. team presents a tremen-
dous challenge. In fact, the
victory of weeks ago over Wake
was the first over an A.C.C.
team in five years. The fact that
they are local schools, however,
is the reason that they are on
the schedule now and. will con-
tinue to be. Economics enters in
to this situation immensely.
The nearness of these schools
brings in a lot of their fans and
their money.

Television games are also
profitable ways to spend a
Saturday afternoon. Whenever
Davidson plays a national
power, there is a chance that the
game will be televised. While
the College receives a big check
for these appearances, the team
usually takes a drubbing that,
to say the least, looks bad on
the tube. Nevertheless, it can
easily be argued that the risk is
well worth a big win like
Davidson had over South Caro-
lina last year. Even though

inent teanis is a plus. in

try. Of course, on the negative
side of the issue, losing is not a
strong selling point.

For the optimist, however, a
strong schedule may well be a
blessing. All Davidson support-
ers look forward to the day
when the Cats will be a power-
house themselves and get
THEIR picture on the cover of
Sports Illustrated. _

Cat ski team
takes third

By DEAN MARSHALL
Davidsonian Correspondent
The Davidson ski team

placed third in stiff competition
at Beech Mountain last Friday.
While lagging behind Lees
McCrae and Applachian State,
they finished in front of Clem-
son and the University of
Tennessee.

Johan Kinck placed third,
Baxter Pharr finished eleventh,
and Tom Weitz was seven-
teenth in the competition. Mark
Stooper rounded out the field
for Davidson.

Another team member, Dean
Marshall, asked that anyone
interested in skiing for David-
son at the next meet on Febru-
ary 16 should contact either him
or Kinck — getting on the

Furman Palladins. (Gregg Strader)

as well. Take Furman’s domin- Davidson loses most of its TV team.

“‘Catcall

John Haskell
i

By JOHN HASKELL

Evel Knievel hops on his motor-
cycle and flies over thirteen cars, and
you wonder if he’s not a little crazy.
Some maniac tightrope-walks across
Yankee Stadium, perhaps just mo-
ments away from splattering himself
on the infield, and you wonder if he’s
not a little crazy.

Then, in our safe little corner of the
world, we see those poor souls on the
Davidson cross country team plod on,
mile after mile, and you wonder if they
too aren’t a little bit off the deep end.

Day after day these apparently
masochistic runners travel insane dis-

= ;

tances, driving themselves incessantly,
for what seems very little reason. These
people on the competitive level obvi-
ously take their sport seriously. It
seems almost too. seriously. Running
must certainly be a great deal more
than a fad or a craze to them, as it is to
countless thousands across the coun-
try. ;

Among sports, cross country cer-
tainly has a great many unique
characteristics. The training is especi-
ally tough, and this training appears
sort of removed from the competitive
side of the sport. It doesn’t seem like
the race is worth the workout. Every-
thing seems so pointless. To be fair, I
guess that one might say that running
is an abstract sport. The motivation
behind it just isn’t obvious.

But we can’t leave it at that. I

confronted a few of our eminent. cross

country men and asked them to justify
themselves. The questions—what
drives you to practice day after day,
what special satisfaction (if any) is

there in running, how important is the
competition, and is there anything spe-
cial about it—were asked of’ sopho-
mores John Davis, Jeff Hamilton, and
Bart Landess. Being self-righteous, as
is the nature of long distance runners,
they defended themselves vigorously.
Pe ice cs was not a philosophi-
metaphysical treatise on the mysti-
je ‘expecence.of running. Rather they

_ all had pretty down to earth reasons for

their ongoing participation in their
: > . Ms
They like participating in sports, and

they value staying active and being in

shape. Running is really just like any
sport, in that is is a means to have ‘‘fun
and health,” says John Davis. To excel
and improve in racing is reason enough
to keep at it. Apparently participating
in competitive running is just as
valuable and interesting as other sports
are to other people.

There are unique aspects of ‘running
that they especially appreciate. Jeff
Hamilton likes the idea that the

competition isn’t ‘‘masked by team
play.”” He values the individual effort
and the intensity he can generate.

Bart Landess feels that running is
important to him because it allows him
to really extend ‘the limits of (his) per-
formance.” He appreciates the influ-
ence his mind can exercise over his.

The competition ‘‘provides tangible
goals,”’ according to Davis. The fellow-
ship and the joy of doing well makes
up, at least partially, for the drudgery.
The competition is important. The
races give them confidence, and even a
noncompetitive marathon can really be
a lot of fun for them.

What it comes down to is that

- they’ve convinced themselves that

running competitively is like any other
serious sport. One does it to improve,
do well, and have fun. They get excited
about fresh air and autumn leaves,
good competition, and fellowship. All ©
of it makes the drudgery, granted that

.it may be a bit excessive, worthwhile.

