@"Phe Davidsonian—October 12, 1979

Sports Scripts

Qoss Country

Davidson College, in conjunction with the Charlotte Track Club
and the Phidippides Running Centers, will host.a European style
cross country meet Saturday morning.

The meet will include three races over the rolling Davidson cross
country course, which has been modified with barriers and
obstacles to create the challenging and often treacherous type of
course which most European and an increasing number of U.S.
cross country meets @re run.

The women’s tean/ will meet Georgia State and Berry College in
a 5,000-meter race at 9 a.m. An open 10,000-meter race will follow
at 1 p.m. with an expected field of over 100 runners from
throughout the Southeast.

. The men’s team will then host Georgia State, UNCC and
Campbell College in a 10,000-meter quadrangular meet at 11 a.m.

The Davidson women will host the NCAIAW State Invitational
meet on October 20, and will travel to Furman on the 27th for a 25
mile team road race relay. They will also battle Furman in a dual
meet sometime in early November. — BILE WILSON

Field Hockey

After the excitement of last weekend's games against
Appalachian and Pfeiffer, the Wildcats faced High Point October
4th. The score left the ladies losing 2-1, with Carol Heppner being
the sole scorer. The team played well and dominated the entire first
half. The offense had little trouble carrying the ball down field yet
they’ had-difficulty monopolizing on the scoring opportunities.

Last Tuesday took the Cats to Chapel Hill where they lost 3-0.
Again, the attack carried the ball but failed to capitalize on goals.
The field play was good and we contained them to only one goal in
the second half,’’ Coach Susan Roberts said. Carolina’s goalie was
excellent and left very little uncovered area through which to score
according to the Davidson coach.

The Wildcats are a good team and Coach Roberts feels confident
that they will still.win the state title. The only problem now is
putting the ball in. The defense is strong, the goalie excellent, and
the offense is extremely aggressive. The Cats faced Catawba
yesterday, Furnam today and Duke here Friday at 4:00 p.m.

Club Football ~°

Neither three consecutive losses nor insecurity at quarterback
have decreased the positive attitude of Davidson’s Club Football
participants.

Such an attitude toward upcoming games is based upon the
teams’ improvement thus. far. A lack of offensive punch plagued
the Club in its first two encounters, losses to Robbins and the
Charlotte-based Fraternal Order of Police, but a timely switch of
Brett Storm to quarterback this past weekend against Clemson
resulted in more offensive movement even though the Club was
defeated 13-10. The team’s strength is a tough defensive unit led by
George Brown, Richard Strader, and Tony Boone,

Western Carolina's Club Football Organization invades next
Sunday with gametime set for 2p.m. on the Varsity practice field.

—VAN BECK

| f
Men's Tennis

Jay Gepfert came away with the men’s singles crown and then
joined Davidson College teammate Harry Griffith to take the
doubles competition as the Wildcat men’s tennis team saw action
this past weekend in an open tournament in Statesville.

Gepfert, seeded fifth in a singles draw of 51 participants, won by
forfeit over Ken Wittaker, a member of the University of North
Carolina tennis team. Gepfert and Griffith were seeded number one

in doubles competition and took the championship by beating Billy

Pike and Bob Helton 6-2, 6-4.

“I thought the tournament came out very well,” stated a pleased

Jeff Frank, Davidson men’s tennis coach. ‘‘Every team member

| either won their matches or lost to a seeded player or a teammate.”
He also cited the play of Jim Haynes, who upset the eighth seed in
the first round, then ousted the number one seed in the quarter-
finals.

The team returns to action when they host the Jim Causey Invi-
tational ‘Tournament this weekend with players from Furman, the
Citadel, and Anderson College among the competitors. They

- CC en oct..19, followed by Hampden-Sydney on
—ROM PAFFORD

- Oct. 20 prior to the football game.

Warner Bros. triumphantly returns the most
celebrated motion picture in its history.

WINNER OF 8 ACADEMY AWARDS
INCLUDING BEST PICTURE

AUDREY HEPBURN: REX HARRISON Sfaiey HOLLOWAY

‘WMLERID HYDE: WHITE. avo ore ss HEQOORE BL BIKEL ex: BERNARD SHAW ‘cence: CCI BEAN ete a”

ncaa” [AJA ERNER FREDERICK LOEWE | =——s: ALAN JAY LERNER =e ACK L WARNER
=e GEORGE CUKOR TecnWcoLOR? —PANAVISION' «Skene [Gay Sg

Friday, Oct.12 Love Auditorium 8:00 & 11:00 $1.50 or Season Pass

BARGER

CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

“Good Builders Since 1925"
384 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 26115 Gave. Ven roadent 6 eometay
