ne rt erty ot
y

An Army of Incompetents

Samuel Maloney

Many members of the Senate and
House Armed Services Committees ad-
vocate reinstituting the draft.

Accordirig to Representative Robin
Beard, a Tennessee Republican member

of the House committee, our defense -

system is facing a crisis. If we wish an
army capable of waging conventional (as
opposed to nuclear) warfare in crises, of
meeting our NATO commitment, or
simply of deterring aggression, then
drastic reforms are necessary. The most
viable action for improving this situation
is a return to some form of conscription.

The case for the draft is quite strong.
1) The U. S. Army’s conventional war
capability is dangerously inadequate.
This leaves the nation in the unconscion-
able position of having to rely upon
nuclear weapons for defense.

2) Despite extraordinary recruiting
efforts, the all-volunteer Army has failed
to maintain a quantitatively effective
fighting force. Not only has the military
had to reduce by 20 percent its goal of
2.5 million personnel, but also 40 percent
of new recruits do not complete their
first tour of duty.

3) The quality of the all-volunteer
Army, furthermore, is also distressing.
Intellectual qualifications of recruits
reflect the lower half of the U. S.
population; almost one-third read no
higher than the fifth grade level.

4) Social welfare problems and classic —

labor-management conflicts further
plague the volunteer Army. Few recruits
are patriotically motivated; for most,
military service is an escape from
unemployment.

5)Escalating recruiting costs, on the
one hand, and the declining quality of
military life and military benefits, on the
other, discourage any hope that the
condition of the volunteer Army will
improve.

6) Finally, the Army Selected Reserve
and National Guard are only marginally
effective, and their condition is deterior-
ating.

The problems of recruiting were
graphically presented in February at a
North Carolina Air National Guard staff
meeting I attended. Even though the Air
Force and the Air National Guard are
exempt from many problems which
confront the Army and the Army Guard,
for every non-prier-service person re-
cruited into the Air National Guard, one
hundred contacts are necessary.

Of the one hundred persons inter-
viewed, forty cannot pass the physical
examination; another forty fail the
mental tests. Of the remaining twenty,
only four or five are really interested,
and only one actually enlists.Nationally ,
the military must recruit 400,000 men
and women each year simply to avoid
becoming smaller. The imposssibility
and cost of the task are apparent.

Disagreement in Washington over the
appropriate form for the draft could
delay legislation many months. North
Carolina Senator Robert Morgan insists
that the mechanism for registering the
nation’s youth shotld be organized
immediately. To wait until a wartime
emergency to structure a system for
identifying and locating draft-age pros-
pects could be disastrous.

Representative G. V. Montgomery,
Democrat of Mississippi, is backing a
bill to register all 18-year-old men and to
draft up to 200,000 of them over the next
five years. In his plan, each draftee
would serve six months on active duty
and remain subject to call for six years.

‘Another Congressman, Democrat:
Charles Bennett of Florida, would subs-
titute for actual draft registration a
governmentally prepared list of 18-year
olds, probably called from Soaainitine
banks of the Internal. Revenue Service
and the Social Lares Saminiraie.

SERIE 1B BE _—

eo Hig Poe, wee he

While Congressman Bennett's system
would be less expensive than creating
draft boards, it would require a dispen-
sation from the Privacy Act; it could
further dehumanize American society.
Secretary of Defense Harold Brown has
recommended and the President has
reportedly concurred that any draft
legislation enacted should include wo-
men as well as men.

The most far-reaching of the conscrip-
tion proposals is the concept of a
national public service, which propo-
nents suggest could be a positive
experience both for the country and for
the young people involved.

Representative John Cavanaugh,
Democrat. of Nebraska, has requested
presidential support for a bill ‘‘to provide
for a universal obligation of public
service for all Americans between the
ages of 18 and 26. Each member of the
society shares an equal obligation to
make an individual contribution to
meeting the needs of the whole society.’’
Prior to his or her 18th birthday, each
young person would make certain ¢hoi-
ces: he or she could register either for

military or nonmilitary service; he or she —

could select a particular six-month
period during the following eight years
in which to be vulnerable to the draft. If
drafted, two years of service would be
required.

Because many people today oppose
military spending and military service,
they consequently oppose the draft.
Unless they can be convinced that
keeping the nation strong militarily is in
the best interests of the United States
and of mankind, they may resist
conscription.

If Congress has to decide on the issue
before the elections of 1980, many
legislators may be faced with the
sensitive choice between national secu-
rity and their own political security. The
answer of citizens and congréssmen to
this critical question. will determine the
United States’ role in future world

The late Swiss theologian Karl Barth
makes an interesting observation about
the draft: ‘‘The pacifist demand for the
abolition of conscription..is short-

_ sighted...War is an affair of the state
and therefore of the totality of its sub-
jects, not of a minority or majority of
volunteers or militarists.

“All citizens share responsibility for it
both in peace and war. They thus share
the burden of this responiibility, and
must themselves face the question of
whether it is right or wrong. This fact is
given due expression and brought right
home by conscription, whereas it is
glossed over in every other type of
military ‘constitution....Pacifists, there-
fore, should be the very last to call for
the abolition of conscription.” (Church
Dogmatics, I11/4, 466/. i

Dr. Maloney, a member of the
Religion department, serves as chairman

of the second vear Humanities program ‘

Pirg Drugs

N.C. PIRG, that organization no one

ever seems to know anything about, has _.

quietly carried out another project, a
survey whose results will be used to
‘support a bill allowing substitution of
generic drugs for name brands.

Questions have recently been raised
about funding for The Davidson chapter.
Funding was . indicating the
college’ s'support. As an educational
institution, part of Davidson's task is
the development of social consciousness.
This is what PIRG and other similar
organizations help to develop, and, as
such; deserve a place with other college-
funded acca

rot ttt

recall John Locke’s description of

4y “* + , > ’ °
ROLLA SRT EE MESO Be

Disruptive, Sleepless Nig
Patterson

’ The article by Brad Kerr in the
February 16th issue of the Davidsonian
focuses attention on one of the most
persistent problems at Davidson Col-
lege. The problem is that there is no
agreed-upon standard of student con-
duct in the dormitories or in college-
owned houses. in Davidson. A related
problem is that even if there were such a
standard there is no agency, organiza-
tion, or group to enforce it.

The result is that the dormitories are
often so noisy that students cannot
study there nor can they get to sleep at a
reasonable hour. Many students at Dav-
idson find it difficult to attend. nine
o'clock classes--let alone eight o'clock
classes--with any regularity. .

Another result is that the dormitories
are frequently vandalized, with accom-
panying inconvenience to the ‘students
who live in them and expense to the
college.

Another is that residents of the town
who live near dormitories or college-
owned houses inhabited by students are
sometimes kept awake half the night by
the noise of high-fidelity sound systems.

A residential college like Davidson is
supposed to provide an ideal educational
enviornment. What do students learn by
living in dormitories and college-owned
houses here? Has the college made any
serious attempt to assist Davidson
students to develop a civilized mode of
behavior in a community of learning?

It can be argued that the Code of
Responsibility provides an adequate

staridard of student conduct and that .

every student has the responsibility of
seeing that: the standard is made
effective. The Code speaks, however, in
general rather than if specific terms.
Experience has shown, moreover, that a
group of determined “‘hell-ri "can

defeat the efforts of even a large number

state of nature. The residents are free,

EE LITT Ts SOT Er stv

equal, and possessed of the gift, of
reason. Yet, when one person or one
group of people infringes upon the rights
of others there. is no independent judge
for the aggrieved to appeal to, no agency
to legislate rules, and no executive to
enforce them. .

Occasionally life in the dormitories.
seems to recall Fhomas Hobbes’ descrip-
tion of the state of nature where every
man’s hand is raised against every other
man’s and life seems ‘‘poor, nasty,
brutish, and short .

.I cannot help comparing the situation
in Davidson's dormitories with that in
the dormitories at the college I attended.
At Sewanee there is a “‘matron’’ (house-
mother) and a college-appointed student

‘tproctor’’ in every dormitory. The
matron sets an example of civilized life
and counsels students‘as the need arises.
The proctor sees that standards of
behavior are upheld and, specifically,
that conditions are suitable for study in
the evenings.

Offenders who will not listen to reason "
are reported to the Dean of Men or the
Dean of Women. That there are never-
theless occasions when. disorder erupts
and vandalism occurs -perhaps-—goes.
without saying. But there is at least an
organizational structure for coping with
thesé occasions.

‘Davidson needs to find its own .
solution. We have capable administra-
tive officers and student leaders. We
have freshmen hall couriselors with a_
proven record in building a sense of
community i in the freshmen dormitories.
With a pooling ‘of such talents more

sine eee ee if

Davidson students are to perfor

“ demically to the best of t) abilities.
and. prepare themselves for lives of
tesp anit bervi r, cond

Basie SSE SN 75 Tbs ae eh ra i

Dr. Brown Patterson is — oF
