het: TRE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

* recently, staged. ‘Why haven't fund drives for Davidson

itself elicited similar enthusiasm and support?
Davidson students and alumni don’t often give money

to Davidson. This is reflected in recent senior class gift

- @fforts and in various alumni donation records. Currently: the

participation. rate. is 30 percent; this is far below what many
comparable schools experience. Swarthmore, for ex-

ample; has a 50 percent participation rate, while.

Princeton and Williams get donations from 66 and 56
percent of their alumni, respectively. és
Davidson is far above the national average of 17.5

“ percent but Davidson is different from most other schools
, in the country. Government money accounts for a
“miniscule amount of the College’s expenses. Yet our
~ endowment is not nearly as big as that of other small
is liberal arts colleges. ©

Davidson is dependent on alumni giving and all of us

~ who are students will eventually become alumni. If we
don’t support this college, who will? More importantly,
“how can we expect other people to look at Davidson as a

worthy institution if we, as students and as alumni, don’t
treat it as one? One’s belief as to whether Davidson is,
indeed, a place worthy of our hard-earned money is one
that separates the donors from the cheapskates. Many
students, when asked if they will give money to Davidson,
flatly say no. When pressed, they point out the problems
the College has, like recent tenure decisions,: the
“student” radio station affair, the problems with faculty
salaries and morale, the athletic priorities; the list is
regrettably long.

‘Don’t students realize that some of the most serious

-. problems could be relieved if alumni took on additional

“words,

financial responsibility? Davidson students, you and me
and people in the past, are subsidized. Currently our
tuition, high as it may seem, pays for 47 percent of the
total ‘cost of our education. The rest comes from
endowment income, trust income, and gifts. In other:
it comes from alumni. it comes from us. All
Davidson alumni have been substantially subsidized
Davidson students.

A little money from every alumnus would add up toa
significant amount. And a significant amount of money
could solve some of our problems. Many of the very
shortcomings that non-donors point to could be

-- alleviated. The athletic priorities and the “student” radio
' Station are just two examples.

Athletic priorities have bothered a lot of naite
recently. One of the main reasoris that some people claim

-_we must promote high powered teams is that these sports

bring in the bucks. The argument is that some alumni get
attached to our big-time teams and give money: to
Davidson. If only all alumni would give to Davidson we
wouldn’t have to try and. entice potential donors with

overinflated athletic programs. “More. money could be ©
' diverted: to the minor ‘and intramural” ‘Sports that’ directly ~
. involve more Davidson students. -

»

The college radio station is another facet of Davidson
that seems in danger of becoming a promotional effort
instead of serving the needs of the students. If only
alumni gave a little more, then maybe we wouldn't have to

worry about impressing potential donors with a powerful

Station and we could have a student run station.’

The alumni giving problem is circular. The less we give,
the more time, energy, and money the college has to
divert to money-making ventures. This means less time,
energy, ‘and money to aspects of Davidson that: are
important to us as students.

‘The fact that students have really dug deep into their

pockets for Cambodia is cheering. “alumni

they can at least reach into their pockets for Oay |
| —Merideth Durden

Merry Christmas from The Davidsonian Staff.

(Lee McCormick)

The Campus Forum

* Remarkable Job
This letter was signed by fifteen

members of the soccer team.

To the Editor:

Today we, the members of
the Davidson Varsity Soccer
team, learned of the decision
not to re-hire our coach, Karl
Kremser. Needless to say, this
news was very distressing to
the majority of the members of
this team, and it causes us great
consternation. We wonder how
such a decision could have been
reached in light of all that he
has done for the soccer program
at Davidson College.

Considering what he started
with three years ago, he has
done a truly remarkable job.
This season was the best year
Davidson soccer has had since
1974. This is due in large
measure to the incredible -
amount of work he puts into the
program both on the field and
off. For example, the last two
years spent recruiting players
were very successful, and this
year promises to be better still.
Members of ‘the team have
actively participated in this
year’s recruiting effort, and are
very enthusiastic about its
chances for success. However,
no incoming freshman is likely
to attend a school where the
man that recruited him is no
longer holding a job.

Karl Kremser's achievements
in the sport -of soccer are
tremendous. He is a member of
the board that ranks the soccer
teams in the southern United
States. He coaches the North
Carolina State “‘Under 16” soc

cer team. He holds a United _
_ States Soccer Federation “A”

license in coaching, one of four
in the entire state of North
Carolina. He was selected, one
of sixteen, to attend a seminar
in coaching held by the coaches
of the German National Team.
This is not an honor that he
applied for, they contac€ him.

What -about his relationship
with the team? True, team
members have been heard to
gripe from time to time, but
what members of any team
don’t gripe? Karl arenes has

his faults, but if the team can
“accept these faults as part of the
‘be acceptable to everyone. We

have had our disagreements

with him. The important thing

‘here is that they were overcome.

It has been said thaf he has
trouble relating to his players.
This may have been true three
years ago and may be so to
some extent today, but the
improvement in coach-team re-
lationships over those same
three years has been marked.

~ In three years Karl Kremser
has taken a group of players
and made them into a team. He
made them into a self-respec-
ting team that could play
competitively with teams that
were nationally ranked. Consi-
dering the short period of time
that Karl Kremser has been our
coach, the amount of good he
has done for the soccer program
is amazing. Now that. the
foundation ofor a strong, com-
petitive program is being built,
we, the undersigned, feel that
the absence of our coach, Karl
Kremser, next fall will be a
severe blow to the continued
success of soccer at Davidson.

Severe Setback

To the Editor:

You cannot build a soccer
program in a day but you can
just about destroy one.

The refusal by the Depart-

ment of Athietics to renew |
Coach Kremser’s contract.

threatens to. set back severely
Davidson's newly revived soc-

: The administration presently
‘hice to foveal their rationale
but they certainly do not have a
better coach in mind. A person
more qualified to build a team

which can compete respectably
in the Southern Conference will

indeed be hard to find. Soccer
has. grown tremendously at
Davidson in the three years
since Coach Kremser’s arrival.
The quality and depth of this
year’s team, the potential re-
cruits whom Coach Kremeer is
bringing to Davidson, and the

soccer matches bear witness to
this fact. Even if another quali-
fied coach is: found; how does
Davidson expect to offer ‘him

any fair chance at a secure posi-

-tion? After all, we just fired the

Southern Conference Coach of
the Year!
Peter Hairston ’81

Academic Regulations |

To The Editor:

I have tecently become aware
of a serious flaw in the academic
regulations at Davidson.

After the first week of winter
term, I decided to leave David-
son. This was not a decision
that I reached lightly. I came
back for winter term only to be
sure that my reasons for leaving
were valid. But my reasons for
leaving are not the issue. While
withdrawing, I was told that in
my winter term classes I would
receive F’s. These F’s: are in
classes that I have attended for
less than ten days. They will
scar my transcript making it
difficult for me to be admitted
to other schools.

I am not leaving Davidson for
academic reasons, and I am
appalled that these F’s will

follow me throughout my edu-
cation. Incompletes rather than
F’s would seem to be a much
fairer solution. The F’s make
the consequences for leaving
Davidson too severe. Possibly a
review of the academic regula-
tions is in order.
Martha Barton’82

