. At its ‘weekly mankind Gainsedey evening, the
‘Patterson Court. Council voted unanimously to have

-Davidson’s first popular election for the inert

Queen and her court. \

This decision was. long oeatihins In: previous years, a
$mall committee consisting of faculty, staff, and a couple
of students chose the Homecoming finalist. She was

selected from the numerous candidates sponsored by ©

student organizations. |
Twenty years ago, this system of judges was the most
“fair and viable. There were no girls on campus, so
relatively unknown imports were the only candidates. In.
‘the old days, a panel of judges was best qualified to make
-aresponsible decisions.
_ After Davidson became Sobdbeationel, the judging
‘process underwent a few major changes with the addition
of new criteria for the judges to consider. The manner in
which a candidate responded in an interview was
- stressed. Community service and academic standing
became deciding factors.
. An extreme yet understandable: attitude developed
within the student body. The selection process had
become reminiscent of those used to determine.-awards
for spring convocation. Not only was the privilege of
popular selection unrealized; but the importance of
physical attractiveness and personality was oversha-
dowed by the new criteria.

Nowadays, the Davidson student body is well aware of

the female beauty within its ranks. Girls who are
attractive are known not only for their looks but for their
‘personality, attitudes, and standing within the college
‘community.

The small size of Davidson’s student body enables
students to know their peers well, especially the female
‘standouts. Davidson students are observant and perfectly
capable of making a responsible decision in a popular
election.

Fortunately, the
and:chose to give:
iseveral reasons)
drawbacks which must be considered.

First, a popular vote enhances the possibility of block

tterson Court Council faced. reality.

voting. Since the members of each eating house, .

fraternity, and campus organization will vote for their
respective candidates, the group with the largest
‘membership could easily sweep the election. For
instance, all the freshmen in Belk could agree on one
candidate and vote for her.

Second, the girls in Richardson or Cannon could agree
on a male candidate, such that we could well wind up
witha Homecoming King instead of a Queen.

Third, what ‘will be the extent of campaigning and
publicity? Will Chambers and the dorms be littered with
.glossy, retouched photos of the candidates and stenciled
campaign posters? Will these girls go from door to door
soliciting votes?

_ Fourth, how will the election be conducted? The PCC
would like the SGA to hold the election next Tuesday.
Regardless of who conducts the election, it will be very
difficult to keep the results. ‘under wraps until the
‘coronation at ‘half-time of the Homecoming football

game. If the election is held early in the week, the votes

should not be counted until Friday night before the
football

: Two things. are certain. The voter turnout will exceed
the numbers voting for student government president, for
student interest will be more widespread. Also,
regardiess of the election results, the final selection will
Be ere romsenienis: ane. Dor ae areas seme

many years.
—Bill Peeples
Editor's Note: All participants, male and female, must be

The ‘Campus Forum

‘Sota hb

den

dents a full say in the matter. For)
Owever, the PCC: decision has ,

_To the Editor;

Davidson College aspires to’

-be ‘a college with a Christian

commitment” and ‘insists on a’
fearless, penetrating search for
truth in all realms of know-
ledge.”

I think that Davidson stu-

dents are capable and willing to

carry on a more fearless and
penetrating search for religious
truth than the one now in

‘progress.

The central questions of re-

eligion are not discussed at
Davidson in proportion to their

importance, which is overwhel-
ming. Religion as a topic of

‘conversation seems almost ta-
_boo here: in class, students

rarely participate in discussion
of religious fundamentals, be-
‘cause such discussions rarely
arise; outside of class, students

_either have something better to
‘do or are too afraid of having
‘their convictions challenged to
‘discuss them.

Likewise, professors are hesi-

tant to express themselves ear-
-nestly on religion; instead, they
‘give their professional opinions
‘in class, while on weekends they

assume very different postures.
This rather awkward situa-.

‘tion is doubly unfortunate:, pote
‘only are religious si, ad

"very important and deserving of
‘More serious pursuit, but Da-

vidson students could learn a
lot from each other and from
their professors if there were
any sort of forum for religious’
dialogue at Davidson.

Of course, there is the DCF,.
which is valuable because it fills
an urgent need among Christi-
ans. But there is also a need for

,.. \Christians and non-Christians.

to come together and talk
frankly about what divides

‘them; there is a need for a con-—

timuous dialogue that can help
students sort out these vital
issues and perhaps come to

‘have its own Socratic Club?

Every two or three weeks, stu-
dents and faculty could meet
and discuss what bothers them
about religion.

Professors could talk frankly
about how they square their
professional views with their
faith or their rejection of it.
Students could get some

straight answers from their

teachers and their fellow stu-
dents, and could test their
views against the views of
others.

We would all stand to learn a
great deal in the Socratic Club,
and the college communit
would be a closer-knit, perhaps

‘more honest place in which to
live and work. |

~The Socratic Club will meet
on Tuesday, October 2, at 8:00

pm in the Peregrine House.

Everyone is invited.
Rob Campany ’81 .

Josh McDowell

To ‘the Editor:

At the risk of appearing to
have missed the comic intent of
Mr. Mason’s article on ‘‘Maxi-
mum Sex,’ we would like to

7:

‘express concern regarding The

Davidsonian’s coverage of this
issue.

The article dealt at great
length with the expression of
Mr. Mason’s sexual inclinations
(from which, we are sure, all
profited greatly) but in the

_ course of this scintillating ex-

pose a false impression of Josh
McDowell’s message was con-
veyed.

To begin with, Josh McDo-
well’s speech was anything but,
‘“‘a maze of theological and

verbal condescension.” He pre- ‘|

sented simple principles in an
orderly fashion, which would
have put many a Humes profes-
sor to shame.

While the lecture was foun-.
ded upon ‘religiously based

love/sex material,” this seems a -

feeble excuse with which to pass

> off the validity of the message. —

Finally, we do not believe the
speech was as blatantly chau-
_Vinistic as Mr. Mason implied.

On the contrary, any proponent
of cheap sex is, in our minds; a
chauvinist. Ask any girl.

_sent the truth. And, we are
sorry that The Davidsonian

chose not to treat Mr. McDo-
well’s message with the same

respect with which it has gre-
ieted other speakers on campus.

While we might have hoped
that the newspaper of a college
dedicated to Christian ideals
would make some attempt to.
approach such a subject as a
Christian's view of sex with
honesty and an open mind—we
are again sorry to say that after
two years of reading The David-
sonian we are not greatly sur-
prised at the slant you have

taken.

Of course, we do not wish to

deny the freedom of The David-
“sonian to print critical articles.
_But as Thomas Jefferson once

sighed, ’
“It is a melancholy truth that a
supression of the press could

not more completely deprive the

nation of its benefits, than is

done by its abandoned prostitu-
tion to falsehood.’’

John Niblock ’81

Rand Malone’81

»-We. are sorry. when any |
Vspape chooses to misrepre--_

