rofessors and members of
orn Davidson's moral fabric I will
borrow a point raised at the Media Board

hearing. It was there noted that the
k matter is equal among faculty and

“Students have been given the oppor-
tunity to identify with the faculty as it
amicability between the faculty and
: student body. This is the year’s second

> over ‘the Honor Code and

if-scheduled exams.
that the guide was the product of an

given focus. As professor Lloyd has

is

encouraged, we must put this behind us. _

Marshall Waddell '80

———Guide-

‘that parents, teachers,

 glumni, and administrators who read

“Phe South's Foremost College Weekly”
students’ views, which you aré supposed
to represent, about the faculty. It is
certainly not reflective of ours.

In a time when professors are concern-
ed with providing the best education

- possible while living with inflation and a
- geven-percent wage hike, we should let

them know that their efforts are really
worth it. ‘Mott McDonald '82
Wilson Sofley '82
Porter Rhoton '82

nt ga 82
Marc Webster ’82
Keith W. Hearle ’82
Warren M. Overby '82
James I: Northrup ’82
Bruce A. Wallace ’82
Geoff Spencer ’82
Brent C. Hilleary '82
Bryan Collins '82
Barry Mack ’82

Ari D. Crenshaw '82
James McLain ’82

supplement as reflective of |

Christian Love

To the Editor:

_1 want to repeat and reemphasize what
I said to the faculty members at the open
Media Board meeting on April 9. Many
of the comments printed in the April 6
edition of The Davidsonian were cruel,
inconsiderate, and unjustifiable. These
comments certainly caused a-great deal
of hurt and embarrassment to many
professors; their families, and friends.

These things have already been done
and, unfortunately, I can only say that
I’m truly sorry they happened.

Please believe me when I say that the
views expressed in that issue are not
those of our student body. I would

i estimate that 98 percent.

of the students I talked to last Thursday
would be a tragedy if any of the faculty
thought that the things that appeared on
April 6 were, in any way, indicative of

I am confident that I speak for the

To the Editor: _

It is Easter week and let us restrain
ourselves from. crucifying once again.
Yes, last week’s Davidsonian was a
tragedy, but pain inflicted atop pain
only creates more hurt. I ask students,

faculty, and administration to forgive.

and forget.

Has Davidson College forgotten what
it represents? We are a Christian estab-
lishment, founded with the purpose of
upholding Christian principles, ground-

‘ed in Christ’s teachings and His greatest

-- teaching was that we are to love one

another. Where is this love now?

If members of the student body, facul-
ty, and the administration vindicate
themselves or their friends by striking
back at the individuals involved in last
week’s ‘April Fool Release,” then I am
afraid that the wounded are no better
than the tormentors.

I hope that apologies will be accepted,
that past events will be forgotten.
Remember the example that we are to
commemorate this Sunday. What would

He have done? $
Patsy Daniels '79

Character Assassination

To the Editor:

Just a few brief comments regarding
‘“A Guide to Courses at Davidson,”’
April 6, 1979. There is a clear distinction
between humor and character assassin-
ation.

While my coverage in the “Guide”
was humorous, the coverage of many
was deeply and tragically over-the-line
into character assassination.

There are many ways for a media
instrument to be responsible, humorous,
and controversial. The April 6 ‘Guide’
was not one of them.

Knowing your ability and the poten-
tial of The Davidsonian, I was saddened
and disappointed.

Edward L. Palmer
Professor of Psychology

Blank Pages

To the Editor:

Last week’s professor evaluation was
appalling. I was shocked that my fellow
students would print such tasteless
comments about our professors.

Poking fun at the faculty can be
‘entertaining and ridicule has often been
expressed in a tactful, clever fashion,
but when the newspaper has to resort to

~~. {continued from page 4)

intended it as a joke. It’s one of those jokes that
backfires... | think most of us are too touchy.
Anybody who wants to poke fun at me is welcome

anytime.”

'- (Making mistakes and learning from them is part of
life. Young writers often don’t realize what a powerful

bitter and blatantly cruel descriptions of
the faculty, the value of sarcastic humor

- is lost.

I hope The Davidsonian will never
again stoop this low in its attempt to fill
blank pages.

Laura Michael ’80

Trash

To the Editor:

The type of cheap, disgusting, and
disgraceful ‘‘satire’’ that appeared in
“The South’s Foremost Weekly” is not
worthy of a trash can.

Serious questions as to the credibility
of a staff and editor that engage in
‘‘potshots” that tread on other people's
feelings are raised.

An apology hardly seems adequate
and will probably not be forthcoming...

. It is somewhat inconsistent to talk of

apartheid and hypocrisy in an editorial
and then devote pages and resources to
slander and trash.

Brian Conley '80

Immature Sarcasm

To the Editor: —

Much of last week’s ‘‘Guide to Courses
at Davidson’’ is a model of cruelty
without humor and crudeness without
point. The “Guide” is not satire; it is
sarcasm, and immature sarcasm at that.
As another student noted, there is a
difference between a lampoon and a

bludgeon.

Liz Holmes ’79
P 2 iti ?
To the Editor:
Why have I heard so little discussion
about the safety of the McGuire Nuclear
Power Plant this week, and so much

about Charles Erwin?
Margaret Hunter '79

Observer

instrument the printed word is and how badly words
can wound; nor do they always seem to understand
that freedom of the press does not include immunity

from suit for libel. If the Davidson student journalists

learn the first lesson without suffering the second,
the episode won't be a total loss.

entire student body when I say that we
sincerely respect our faculty. We do not

personal lives. The honest fact is that
we really like you all; almost every
student has several faculty members

If you doubt what I say, please talk to
me about it; better yet, ask the students

‘comments will be confirmed to the|.

highest of your expectations. :

I hope that this incident will, ironi-
students support them. We realize that
an “‘us vs. them” attitude is inappropri-
ate and unproductive. We are all here

SGA Announcement

The Senate makes its appointments to the administration and faculty councils and
committees during Spring Term. This year the selections will occur in three groups.
The deadline for the first group is Tuesday, April 17 5:00 P.M. This group consists of

these committees:

._ Their descriptions are written below. If you are interested in servi
contact Percy Badham (-6716), John Jackson (-6322), or Richard Torey ue ven
will be interviewed by a screening committee: nominees will be chosen and presented
to the Senate. Appointments to other councils follow this process
CULTURAL ANDACADEMIG PROGRAMS
This committee advises the Vice-President for academic Aft
public lecture programs (like the

The Student Media Board consists of three
By-Laws, two Faculty members chosen eeSraine
member of the administration appointed by the’
members chosen at large by these six.

_ Student publications. It may author

publications. .

Cultural and Academic Programs

Council on Campus and Religious Life

Media Board

MEDIA BOARD |

airs in planning major
Reynolds lecturers) and cultural piceranie.

ts chosen according to SGA
© the Faculty By-Laws, One
President, and three additional
The ‘Board represents the Trustees regarding
ize new publications and monitors existing

. COUNCILON CAMPUS ANDRELIGIOUSLIFE _- :

_* This committee concerns itself with the quality of student life on campus,

particularly social and religous life, the operation of student organizations and

- seed SS SE QUEY Le NRE TRIPS OU EEN Det RA te POU Riess Ly ap) 7 Seaetely.
SR ORE Weegee i ARNO |) gamnmaee ed
a

ath. ope — <5 SUSE Senet a
A vy SNES ee fee FC . a

o Baee re ‘ ees + ,
3 pike. 4 Pe sbi He SHS Pi we J byct ; =

