Sports

Wildcats first loss, to Bucknell, isa big one

By DAVID DONALDSON
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats suf-
fered their first defeat of the
season last Saturday at the
hands of the Bucknell Bisons.
The 33-0 loss was particularly
humiliating as the Cats had
played much the same Bucknell
team down to the wire the
previous season before losing,
21-20.

This Saturday, the Ran-
dolph-Macon Yellow Jackets
visit Richardson Field for Da-
vidson’s Homecoming. The Yel-
low Jackets have always played
a tough game against the
Wildcats in the past and have
vowed to ‘give the Davidson
alumni something to remem-
ber’ in this, their last game
with Davidson. Kickoff time is
slated for 2 p.m.

Davidson’s offense hobbled
to only 204 total yards Satur-
day, and the defense allowed
over 500 yards to Bucknell.

Coach Ed Farrell felt the
Bisons were better than David-
son but hardly 33 points better.
“Things got out of hand toward
the end,’’ he said.

Being with a hostile crowd
made a difference, too. If every-
thing had gone just right, we
could have played a really close
game that could have gone
either way..They just weren’t
that much better than we,’’ he
added.

Bucknell took the opening
kickoff and promptly marched
68 yards to a touchdown. Both
offense and defense played rag-
gedly the remainder of the first
half and the teams retired for
halftime with Bucknell on top,
19-0.

and was forced to punt.
Bucknell put the game’ out of
reach in the third quarter with a
play that typified the ball game.
The Bisons completed a pass to
their tight end who fumbled at
the Davidson 42. But the ball
bounced ‘up into the hands of

Paul D'Aloia who ran the
remaining distance for the
score.

The only bright spots in
Davidson’s dismal day were a
Greg Hammon interception and
a 45-yard average for Wayne
Paymer on his eight punts.

S.C. schools vie for trophy

By BERT MOBLEY

Sports Editor
Davidson and all other

Southern Conference schools
are going to be on display all
year due to the Colonel D.S.
McAlister Sportsmanship
Award. According.to the in-
scription on the award, it. is
presented ‘‘to the institution
judged to have ‘exhibited the
highest degree of sportsman-
ship, ethics, and courtesy a-
mong its. players, coaches, and
spectators in the conduct of its
athletic programs.”

Davidson Athletic Director
Thomas Carmill sees the award
as ‘‘an attempt to bring inter-
collegiate competition back to
the participants and students.”

“Collegiate competition has
gotten so caught up in winning
that we’ve lost sight of the real
values of competition,’’ Cart-
mill said. “‘The Southern Con-
ference as well as other confer-
ences around the country wants
to bring things back in focus
and make competition a healthy
activity on campus.”

Many factors come into con-
sideration for the McAlister
Award. The actions of coaches,
players, and spectators at a
contest are important as well as

the courtesies and considera- ~

onan§.C. scale,’”’ Cartmill said,
‘‘in crowd deportment and
sportsmanship even though we
tend to get out of control every
now and then at basketball
games.’’ He explained some of
the regulations call for the
clearance of the endzones at
basketball games, which will
cause a change in seating
arrangements. Amplifiers will
be cut out if they’re not directed
toward the stands ‘but at the
players, he explained.

“The cheerleaders must ex-
cite the crowd—not incite the
crowd,’ Cartmill added.

All the sports sanctioned by
the conference will be account-
able for the award, which will be
awarded for the first time next
spring. The head coach of each
sport will receive a check-list of
all the conference opposition
and will rate the other schools
on their actions and courtesies
with a 5-4-3-2-1 scale. The
athletic director on each campus
will do a complete evaluation of
other institutions before the
award is announced.

Previously, Dr. Spencer met
with athletic officials from the
Davidson campus stressing the
importance of the new regula-
tions influencing competition
procedures. Various literature

‘The soccer team “plays Maréhall on Friday and ‘Furman on-
‘Tuesday, both at home. Above Scott Wall and Chuck Price set up

strategy during a recent game.

Soccer team ‘hangs on’ for victory

By TED JONES
Staff Writer
Boom! Mark Elmore rifles in
a shot from 25 yards. Boom!
Jimmy Hawk rockets in an
equally long shot. Boom! Pete
Sluiter blasts a penalty kick
into the upper corner. With but
fifteen minutes elapsed, David-

’ son had a 3-0 lead over Western

Carolina Saturday. The Wild-
cats hung on to win 3-1.

Unfortunately, ‘‘hung on”’ is
a good way to describe David-
son’s victory. Granted, Wes-
tern Carolina has a fine team
according to most sources. But
Davidson looked sluggish after
their opening barrage of goals.
Passes were not being strung
together, and the defense often
looked disoriented and found
themselves pressed against
their own goal. Western,
though, capitalized with only a
single breakaway goal.

Coack Karl Kremser walked

with a little chip shot that
caught goalie Mike Tordanou

‘too far out.

But late in the first half, the
Wildcats came alive. Jimmy
Hawk headed in an incredibly
long throw-in by Pete Sluiter to -
tie the score. Davidson’ s good
play carried over into the se-
cond half, and substitute Tom
Schember scored a marvelous
shot from the right side that
ticked in off the crossbar. Dav-
idson “hung on” again ‘to. win
2-1, though this time “hanging
on”’ involved dominating the
field. This time Coach Kremser
had better things to say.

The soccer team felt a loss
with the resignation of senior
co-captain Doug Schuessler ladt
Friday following a season-long
disagreement with Coach Krem-
ser.

“It was a matter in which I
was faced with no alternative
but to offer my seseertien.

Davidson showed signs of tions extended by the host and posters have been used to Kees ids first as team co-captain, then
getting on track as the offense school. One of the stipulations explain the ‘Code of Spectator ‘he Sidelines muttering,“Thisis team member,” Schacecler
took the second half kickoff and in a brochure issued by the Conduct” as set forth by all the the ag we've played this aia.
drove 57 yards before fumbling Southern Conference Sports Of- Southern Conference _presi- esc jee rae ‘victory: a This week Disvideenaiiemmpts
on the Bucknell 27 yard line.On _fice-says, ‘Crowd control must dents. So vidson @ record in to improve their 1-0 conference
their subsequent possession, be good—no interference with An excerpt from this code uthern Conference. record with two Southern Con-
the Wildcats again pushed the contest, absence of derogatory states “The scoreboard will re- Wednesday against Wash- ference home matches. Friday,
ball into Bison territory with an banners and cheers, no debris flect the.quality of the teams in ington and Lee, the Wildcats Davidson plays Marshall, re-
apparent first down on the 19 thrown on playing area, and the competition; the kind of sup- played with the same sluggish- scheduled from earlier in the
yard line. However, a holding sidelines and-endlines cleared of port giveri by the spectators will ness in the opening minutes; year, and next Tuesday David-
penalty brought the ball back to spectators.” reveal the character of Southern and appeared to be out-hustled son faces Furman. Both games
the 48 where the offense faltered “We've been relatively good Conference fans.” to the ball. W&L scored first begin at 3: pial
ia Kevin Robbins, and C:K. Nichols largely reflect the team’s success this help out in the helenae backcourt.

‘Catcall

John Haskell

i A

A quick scan of the Davidson
sports scene for 1979-80 shows what
should be the most successful year
we've had for a long time. Many teams

winning records,.and the good ones
haven’t lost much. Here is a short
directory of our athletics for 1979-80.

stéllar by Davidson standards. Karl
Kremser’s SOCCER team has. com-
pletely turned things around since the

are ready for vast improvement and

“So far; the fall teams have been -

seems headed for a winning season,
with more in store for the future.

The FOOTBALL team has also
broken into the win column more often
than not this fall. They’re playing a
realistic schedule and have a good shot
at seven wins this year.

Before Saturday’s game against
Bucknell, the club had racked up more
than 450 yards a game with big
yardage from both the passing and
running game. Hardrunning backs
Alvin Atkinson, Craig. Pyles, Aaron
Rollins, and Ray Sinclair have picked
up yardage behind an offensive line
many considered to be the weakness of

’ the team.

The starting wall consisting of Matt
Auker and Danny Klinar at the tackles,
Dave: Nichols and Patrick Pope at the
guards and Dave Donaldson at center
is small by college standards but has
done well taking advantage of its
superior quickness and agility. The
team has several big tests remaining in
the season, and the ability of the front
line to meet those challenges will

0-17 team of two years ago. A young
{ en eity oe bes

-

year.

Norm Koller’s CROSS COUNTRY
team suffered a few casualties last
Saturday in a disappointing loss. But
led by Bart Landess, John Hoots,
Danny Armistead, and George Strobel;
the harriers are highly competitive

‘again this year.

The perennially successful TENNIS
team with Jeff Frank at the helm
returns most of its stars. Among them
are “Tlie” Gepfert, Harry Griffith, and

Nevins Todd. With the addition of .

some strong freshmen the netters hope
to challenge for the Southern Confer-
ence title come Spring. The tennis team
has several matches scheduled for. this
fall.as well.

The less sh successful
BASKETBALL squad coached by
Eddie Biedenbach is going to have to

to the New Jersey Nets. The de-Gerdy-
ized Cats will rely more on their inside

game which will be greatly aided by the ~ «
return of forward Rick DiBenedetto. |

Siodenrach soit cee onc toeapnnety

. fully, a-more successful one.

One can count on seeing a more
patterned and patient team and, hope-

The powerful SWIM TEAM will be
back in full force in 1979-80 and is once
again one of the conference’s top
teams. The wrestlers are also optimis-
tic this year with the addition of a new
coach and the leadership of seniors Rob
King and med-school boung Mike
Garfinkel.

The BASEBALL team under the
direction of Palmer Muench has a fall
schedule for the first time. It is a young
team with no seniors and: is’ looking
forward to its first winning season -}-
since 1975. ‘Phe major loss is at catcher:

