sputtering larynx. ’

When he does crank up, though, his lectures produce
intellectual effects comparable to those of saltpeter on Tony
Abbott’s sex drive.

Hal is considered by many a Hilde jock as the best dressed
set of Cliff's notes on campus, his soporific, baritone voice

forming a unique tweed blend with his genteel smile and
aimless mental wanderings.

Yoder

Professor's Statement:

li! y aun bref temps depuis je suis professeur; parce que je
suis si jeune; donc j’‘appore de la braicheur et de la vitalité sla
classe de frangais. Je m'amuse par faire beaucoup de gestes et
plaisanteries dans l'idiome de francais. et je souris toujours
sous ma moustache bien soignée.

Je suis tres enthousiastique quand je discute des films et
des livres francais avec-la classe, et le plupart des Studiants
gagnent une assez bonne note s’ils essayent faire attention en
classe et faire les devoirs. Je suis, bien sur, un chic type, et il
n'est pas un secret. que beaucoup de jeunes filles tombent en
chiot-amour avec moi.

Student Comments:

-Since he is young and hasn’t been teaching for a real long
time, Dr: Yoder brings a freshness and vitality to his French
class. He enjoys making lots of French jokes and gestures,
and he is usually smiling beneath his well-groomed mustache.

He is very enthusiastic when he discusses French films and
books with the class, and most Students get good grades. if
they try.to pay attention in Class and do their homework. He is,

above all, a nice guy, and it’s no secret that’a Bay ‘QirlS have a.’

crush on him.

Pinkerton
A most imposing figure when he blow-dries his hair. When
he neglects to, the class faces a shiny pate. He is living proof

that natives’of Tennessee actually can learn a second
language.

Epes

Knew Judas Iscariot was a fascist all along.

Winkler

Wednesday forever

Wruck

Erich O. J. S. Wruck has the longest name on the faculty,
and_.he also has the biggest head. He will proudly show anyone
his expertly forged. international pilot's license, which he
earned at age fifteen, such that he holds the world's record as
the youngest licensee. roy

This war-mongering professor got his start killing people
when he dropped napalm on French civilians from his Stuka in
1943. He is world renowned for inadvertently sinking the
pga came over to the Us just so he ‘could enlist in our
Air Force and perhaps be the lucky person to drop an A-bomb
on North Korea. The Air Force rejected him, so he joined the
Army instead.

_ . Anyone who takes a Wruck wreck will soon learn that ie
Germany is the best country in the world. Wruck fails to reveal ©
that his section of Germany is now a Polish heritage. Alas,

WW II has reduced this proud Prussian to a dumb Pollock.

SRR ee ee nem aan aR ET a aR ema

'pawnable. After all, Malcolm ‘Lester is. a member of the

especially loves to shoot the bull 3 abou ut the basketb

—_=

The college would be much better off if a few_ ot

professors followed Boulton’s example and NOOR | an extended
vacation.

Profaskor Edmondson makes more money moonlighting as

anesthesiologist at Presbyterian Hospital than he does asa
Davidson professor.

“Divahn raght of kings and historeh chairmun” is Malcolm
Lester Redivivus, PhD, FRHS’s motto. Sometimes it seems as.
though faculty members wish they were the historical
characters they teach about, for example, Dan Rhodes and the
prophet Ezra, Malcolm Partin and any one of Madame
Pompadour’s lovers, Rupert Barber and Tennessee Williams,
et al. Malcolm sees himself as an aristocrat. If vou questioned _
him about this, and if he condescended to answer, he would  -
point to his long golden Phi Beta Kappa key which really is

|

eee |

Lester oe | foe
|

|

Jeffersonian Aristocracy of the Mind. He got his PhD at UVA.

Lester became Chairman of the Historeh Depahtmunt back
when it was the Historeh Depahtmunt (Frontis and Chalmers,
R.1.P.). His reign has seen the end of the Depahtmunt as
anything but the haven for pre-law types, who agree with him
that the world ended at Appomattox, or when the Liberal Party
in England went down the tubes after World War |. Lester
decided that since history ended, historical scholarship also
ended, and with the exception of his Dr. Seuss-like book on
Anthony Merry (the early nineteenth century British Minister to
the US--the North Meck Newspaper really called it a book ona

preacher), Lester has done nothing, absolutely nothing for the
last twenty years.

But what most don’t know about Lester is that he keeps the
Depahtmunt a man short so that he can finance a mulatto
mistress named Livonia, who lives in a walk-up above a Gospel
Star Mission on Trade Street in Charlotte. Livonia knew when
she met Malcolm that he might not be much, but she was sure
‘that his huge Phi Beta Kappa key portended something
underneath. Although somewhat disappointed, and feeling a
bit liberated since Roots, she's still loyal to him, perhaps
because he buys her old Supremes costumes and biack
Cadillacs (and you thought your money was going to Oxford
University Press). Ah, well, that’s the price of noblesse oblige.

“Without my visor,” the Geach once noted, “I feel naked as
my wife without her dentures. 6

Partin

Maicoim Partin is the “good ol’ boy” of the history department.
He will be the first to tell you that he is an excellent lecturer.
Despite his admittance that co-education has toned down —
some of his presentations.a bit; Partin still manages" to inject
lots of sexual commentary into his lectures. His Catherine the

Great lecture continues to elicit ‘hysterical ‘ejaculations from i
hisstudents. _ Z|

"Partin seems to sincerely cherish contact with, stunts. He

, : % ‘
NNN eeeeEeE————

program, sex, drugs (especially alcohol), ‘and the amenitie
offered by life in Cornelius. — :

“

