Roberts

Jerry Roberts closely approximates the partial derivative of a
Hitler Youth, his staccato diction and mechanistic torsal
movements bringing to mind the automation in The Day the
Earth Stood Still.

_ Among the most popular probability games in Math 23 has
been wagering on. whether Dr. R. would wear his brown
trousers or his blue trousers.* One wager that approaches
certainty (probability of 1.0) though, is that he will be wearing

the same hush puppies any given week dav. or that he will bid
you bon chance on'your weekly review with the familiar “Rotsa
Ruck!”

*He only has two pairs.

Stroud

The only reason Junius Brutus Stroud teaches at Davidson
is So he can get his dumb kids into college.

Smith

When Ms. Smith finds out that a calcutus test can exceed

three pages, Bruce Jackson won’t have anything left to smile
about.

Miltary Science

Kotula

In these introductory courses freshmen and sophomores are
led by Capt. Mitch Kotula into the challenging yet
self-fulfilling world of Military Life. Captain Kotula is a true
romantic-and he is known as the rogue of the ROTC cadre. As
an instructor, Capt. Kotula is respected by students and
faculty alike.

His teaching style is very coherent and is aimed at provoking
thought and discussion in class. He demands that his
students thoroughly consider all ideas brought up in class and
he allows no student to merely accept any established
standard in Military thought and practice.

In Military Science | (or M.S. 1), students examine military
history from its prehistoric beginnings to modern times with
special emphasis on its role in art and literature.

In Military Science II the “Kotula-bird” (as Capt. Kotula
affectionately calls himself) leads sophomore students in the
study of psychological and philosophical problems relating to
Military Science. Special topics such as “‘the stress of

command,” ‘‘blood lust,’’ and ‘‘battlefield ethics’ are
discussed.

Music
Lawing

Professor's statement:

| think ‘that music is of fundamental significance in our
everyday lives of aesthetic contemplation. Music is where and
who we are today, and our courses here strive to develop
within the students a certain facility in the use and
understanding of musicology. It does indeed have charms to
soothe the savage breast.
Student Comments:

It’s better to already know something about music and
composers before taking any of these courses Of else you re up
that proverbial creek. Expect to spend a lot of time listening to
tapes. Extra credit given to those who volunteer to play in pep
band.
William Lawing is the only member of the music department
with a PhD. Some of the students think that this is a Big Deal.
Doc, as he is affectionately known, is one of the few decent
trumpet players in existence who chain smokes. This is like a
nianist_who.maniqures his. fingernails: wih, a chainsaw.

NERD Ae ,
cere “

Thom Cartmill forks over all for American Express Travelers
Checks.

Plott

Donald Plott is the head of the music department. This is
because he is the only one happy-go-lucky enough to deal with
the potentially dangerous maniacs who declare a music major.
The silver fox has long cut an imposing figure conducting

choruses. Since he got his hair cut, he may have to go to
driving trucks.

J. .olanni ing associate editor for Hustler.
J. . alaaning 9p, bagoming. associate editor for Hustle

Swisher

James Swisher’s greatest assets are his corduroy jackets
and his volleyball serve. Big Jim teaches music depreciation
and tries to impress the class by playing Beethoven

Symphonies on the piano. Usually he fails. He achieved

notoriety by being the only participant to cheat on the CROP
walk.

Welsh

Wilmer Hayden Welsh is the only professor at Davidson who
had a famous composer named after him. He presides at the
Cathedral of St. Wilmer the Divine, where he plays with his
organ. Friend to all music majors and to none else, it’s best to
stay out of his way in any case.

,

Russell

Although he is not a professor, no view of the Music
Department would be complete without considering Herb
Russell. Herb is best known for his kindly, patronizing attitude
towards the timid freshmen males, especially the blondes.
Since turning 65, Herb will leave us and go on to greener
pastures. The music department will never be the same. He's

aS

