Notes on Students

Patterson Court Officers

Eight Patterson Court Eating houses elected their new officers
recently.

Junior John Turnburke is the new president of ATO; Louis
Williams is treasurer; Elizabeth Alexander, assistant treasurer;
Jeff Coleman and Nancy Wright, social chairmen; and Vonnie
Hendrickson, house manager. .

At Emanon, Jeff Harris is the new president; Gregg. Londry,
vice-president; Bill Wilson, treasurer; Audrey Little, Robbie
Kirkendol, and Martha Ann Whitmore, social chairmen.

At ETC, Donya Boylston captured the presidency; Dick Jones is

the new vice-president; Leslie Bowman, treasurer; Mark Newman,
house manager, and Charlie Bridges, social chairman.

At KA, George Brown is number one; Andy Smith, number two;
and Charlie Pearson. number three.

At Pika, Trip Ruth is the incoming president; Andy Rosen,
vice-president; Dave Smith, treasurer; Mark Carpenter, assistant
treasurer; Stuart Baskin, social chairman.

At Rusk, Ann Clark is the new president; Shera Alford,
vice-president; Beth Goode, treasurer; Giza Taylor, social
chairman; Liza Brown, house manager; and Beth Whittle, food
manager.

At SAE, Adrian Wilson grabbed the presidency; Sam Curt is
vice-president; Randy Dulin, treasurer; Burton: Vance and John
Thomson, social chairmen. — JEAN SORACCO

J

Hall Counselors

Hall counselors and their alternates for next year were
announced Tuesday. Ten women and 22 men, as well as four
women and four men alternates, were chosen out of 70 candidates.

The selections were made by Dean of Students Will Terry,
Assistant: Dean of Students Sue Ross, 1979-80 Freshmen Advisors
Anne Eglin and John Willingham, Housing Director Scotty
Nichols, and former hall counselors Cindy Curtis, Dick Deibert,
Chip Legerton, Jim Haynes, and Lee Raney. The committee spent
about 40 hours interviewing and selecting the finalists.

Next year’s hall counselors are: Kathy Adkins, Katherine Allen,
Barb Ashley, Katherine Christie, Susan Eglin, Lisa Hasty, Grace
Morgan, Kirby Owen, Amy Robinson, Anne Stanback; and. David
Barkley, John Davis, Phil Daves, Bob Evans, Rob Fields, Mike
Fitzgerald, Jack Hall, David Haskins, Turley Howard, Dick
Jones, Bryan Kelleher, Bart Landess, Clay MacCaulay, Chris
Moore, Pete Neefus, Jeff Ray, Blaine Sanders, Doug Shanks,
Mark Shogry, L.D. Simmons, Richard Terry, David Waddill.

Alternates are: Gray Bullard, Fess Crockett, Alex Evans, Tricia
Haynes, Renee Hedgepeth, Karen Hester, David Rhodes, and
Nancy Wright. —CAROLE LOPTSON

Microfilm Copier

There aren’t many students who’ve managed to find the new
$4,000 microfilm copier in the Library basement, -according to
Director Leland Park. Park said that for ‘‘the time being” all copies
are free.

John Garda and Deborah Wayman | will appear with the Ballet
Repertory Company in Love Auditorium on Wednesday February
2. : Vhoto by Susan ‘Cook

Cultural Events ehige you the Troika Balalaikas enter, and Roy Torley in the 900 Room on

—left to right—Gregori Carogeorge, Lynn Car-

Wednesday, March 14.

Californians bring a taste of Russia to North Carolina

By MARY WILLIS
Staff Correspondent
The Troika Balalaikas are
coming to Davidson.

Who are the Troika Balalai-
kas? Wednesday, March 14 (the
first Wednesday after Break)
the Cultural Events Committee

is bringing to the 900 Room:

three young musicians from
California who re-create Rus-
sian folk music, dressing in
authentic costumes, singing in
Russian, and playing tradi-
tional instruments.

A balalaika

stringed triangular instrument,

is a_ three-

traditional of Russian folk
music whose origins can be

traced back to the ninth cen-
tury. In medieval times the

balalaika was popularized by

the court jesters who then
passed it on to the peasants.

The group is in its fourth
year of ‘association and is on
tour in the western, midwestern

and southern states: .®

The group ‘‘never fails to
bring its audiences-to their
feet—singing, dancing, and
clapping to the. captivating

rhythms,"’ according to sige
Works Magazine.

Ken Wood and Suzie Summers offer
several life-work planning program=

By GLEN LIESEGANG
Staff Correspondent
It may just be too late to grab

a good Spring externship but .

it’s just the right time to look
for a challenging summer job.
Ken Wood and Suzie Sum-
mers, directors of the five-year-
old Office of Experiential Pro-
grams, are always there to
inform students of the many
options available to students.

There are two major pro-

Ballet Repertory Company is coming
to Love Auditorium February 21

By ROGER FARABEE
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, February 21,
the Ballet Repertory Company
will perform in Love Audito-
rium as part of the Davidson
College Artists’ Series. The
company, the touring offspring
of the prestigious American
Ballet Theatre, was formed by
Richard England in 1972 and
produces both the “‘classical”’
ballet repertory and interesting
modern works with equal
aplomb:

England, artistic director of
the troupe, is’ a graduate of
Harvard and the Juilliard
school and is also a past
performer with the Metropoli-
tan Opera Ballet, the Hunting-
ton Dance Ensemble and Ame-
rican Ballet Theatre.

He has played a pioneering
role in the regional ballet. move-

_ment, having founded the Ala-

bama State Ballet, Dance Rep-
ertory Company, and the Dance
Department. at the: Governor’ s
School of North Carolina.

The dancers in the company
range in age from 16 to 20

years, many of whom are scho-

larship students at Ballet
Theatre School; many later join

the larger American Ballet

Theatre.

Praises ring out from critics
wherever this vivacious and
competent company travels.
The ballet craze has grown
rapidly in this country and the
attendance accorded to the suc-
cessful Ballet Repertory Com-
pany proves this.

At Oven's Auditorium in

Charlotte the troupe will per-
form the full-length ‘Romeo

‘and Juliet” on Tuesday, Feb-

ruary 20, at 8:15-pm. Some
tickets are still available and
may be obtained by calling
Lynda Sawyer at 374-1619,
weekdays from 9am to 5 pm.

A master class will be held, in

ruary 21 at 12:00 for persons

having interest in and prior.

experience in ballet. Those inte-
rested should contact Linda
Malloncé at the handball courts
in the gymnasium on’ Monday,
Feb. 19. at 10:00 am. Don't. miss
it!

grams offered: Centering-Ven-
turing and Life-Work Planning.
The C-V program includes In-
tern-Externships, the Philadel-
phia Semester, and the N.I:H.
Program in Washington D.C. It
also involves seminars, work-
shops, and Outward. Bound
programs, such as backpacking
and white-water canoeing.
About 70 people took ‘advan-
tage of Experiential Programs
during the 1977-78 academic
year, says Wood. This fall, 37
students participated in part-
time internships in Charlotte. .

The Intern program provides
the opportunity for the student
to either work part-time or
full-time during a term away
from Davidson with a pro-
fessional in the student’s field of
interest. Quite often the Expe-
riential Programs Office can
locate a Davidson graduate
outside the Charlotte area who
is willing to sponsor a student
for such a program.

The Extern program involves
a week over one of the breaks,
usually at Spring Break, during
which the student works with a
professional to get firsthand
information about the area of
interest. Last year 60 students
took Externships during
breaks.

The Philadelphia Urban
Semester is a joint program
between Davidson and a Phila-
delphia-based organization.

The semester involves. intern-;

uddition, on Wednesday, Fabs: #2, Riogrems 10, mae, Saee

areas, with) seminars and. lec-
tures, to allow. for the exc’

of ideas. Several days are set

aside for non-academic activi-”
ties in ia at ere

the program. In the past

Vee Seoneeccin. oae

during ‘Winter ca Moria
