2—The Davidsonian mniani—May 11, 1979

News at a Glance

Violations
. According to Dean of Students Will Terry, nine students were
dismissed this academic year for Honor Code violations; there were

five Code of Responsibility , one resulting in suspension
and four in lesser penalties.
_Loan Defaults

College President, Sam Spencer received a letter from an Atlanta
HEW office commending Davidson for its low default rate in the
National Direct Student Loan Program. The letter said Davidson's
default rate on such loans is about 9 percent, well below the
national average. ;

Art Awards
The Student Art Exhibit which is currently being shown in the
Art Gallery has three winners.
First prize went to senior John Evans for his welded Rhinoceros.
Gary Hazlett took second prize for a painting filled with bizarre
action. Third prize was awarded to Paul Schulz for his painting of

autumn leaves.

July Experience Counselors

Recently selected are the counselors for Davidson’s July
Experience Program held July 8 to August 3 for high school

students.
The

selors were chosen for three criteria: their capability as

Hall Counselors in relating to high school students, their academic
background since they will be helping with labs and other classes,
and their extracurricular activities.

The counselors named are Debbie Dillon ’78, Cissy Fulenwider
"19, Mike Heinig ’80, Bunny Horine ’80, Nancy Macconnachie '79,
Andy Miller ’80, Julia Pidgeon ’81, andsSteve Woodard ’80.

SAE Officers

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon House recently elected officers for the

79-80 school year.

Al Rhyne and Randy Dulin. were voted president and vice-
president. Jeff Ray is the new treasurer.

Social chairmen are John Thompson and Bart Landess. Alex
Evans was elected house manager, and Blaine Sanders was chosen
as secretary. Gus Robinson was voted the new librarian, and Bill

Pe&ples is the correspondent.

College Bow! team tromps 11 of
12 opponents in Atlanta invitational

By EMMA CRICHTON
MILLER
Staff Writer
Eleven of twelve college bowl
teams fell to the Davidson team
last weekend in an invitational
tournament at Atlanta. The

team’s chances: ‘‘We did lose to
Emory, but we have beaten all
of the other teams. It could be
quite tough, but we shall hope-

fully get through to the second
or third round. And there’s
always a chance we could win
the Whole thing, who knows?”

Lloyd said the team has been

‘ working hard and should do

well, but their present regime is
one of “‘light practice, studying
for final exams and writing term
papers.”

Construction of local shopping center to begin soon

By JOHN SIMAN
Staff Writer

Construction of a small shop-
ping center in Davidson will
begin within two or three
weeks, according to Louis Fein,
Director of Development for
Shamrock Realty, a Charlotte
firm.
The shopping center will be
located off Griffith Street be-
tween Railroad Street and Wat-
son Street, where there is now a

baseball field. A November

completion date is projected,
said Fein.

‘Lowe’s Supermarket and
Cornwell’s Drugstore, whose
president is Davidson alumnus
Jerry Norvell '58, already have
leases in the shopping center.
Fein said that other occupants
will include several specialty
stores—possibly with a hard-
ware store and a clothing store
among them. Fein mentioned a
“sit-down restaurant, nothing
like a fast food place” and a
small savings and loan as other
possible occupants.

According to William Potts,
Building Inspector for the town,

of Davidson, the Davidson:

community is willing to accept

the shopping center. ‘‘Most .~

people here haye wanted one,”

~ he said, adding that the issue of

allowing construction was not
controversial. Potts described
the construction as ‘‘part of the
growth predicted ever since the
lake (area around Lake Nor-
man) was developed,’’ begin-
ning about ten years ago. He
called the construction of the
shopping center ‘‘a natural
hand-in-hand development with
the development of the lake
shore.”

Potts also cited the construc-
tion of a Harris-Teeter Super-
market and the expansion of
Cashion’s Food Store, both in
Cornelius, as other examples of
area growth in the past decade.

When asked about area
growth in the future, he men-
tioned the possibility that a
shopping center might be built
near the intersection of I-77 and
Highway 73 outside Cornelius
and that there might be devel-
opment of land zoned for indus-

trial use just north of the Meck-
lenburg-Iredell county lines,
just outside of Davidson.

The Lowe’s to be built in

be one (Rexall Drugs) here,”
Fein pointed out that “We

(Shamrock Realty) don’t nor.

mally get involved in the con. _

struction of shopping centers.” _
He explained that Shamrock |
Realty —of which the builder of _
the shopping center, Four Sea: |

Davidson will compete with
both of the Cornelius supermar-
kets. Similarly, the new Corn-
well’s Drugstore will compete

begun their exams.

steps, bathrooms, etc.

any way.

Rules for exams

The following rules have been “approved for the self-
scheduled exam procédure by the Student Senate, the
Registrar, the Dean of Students, the Vice Ptesident for
Acadmic Affairs, and the Student Conduct Council:

1. Students are not to bring books into Chambers unless
using them in rooms 309 and 310. During exam hours, books
will not be left lying around in Chambers anywhere.

2. Open book exams will be taken in Chambers Room 309
(smoking) and room 310 (non-smoking).
~ 8. Calculators may be used only in room 307 and room 308.
Each student must use his own calculator.

4. Students will not leave the building once they have

5. Students will be required to indicate on the card
' attached to the exam envelope the room and the exam period
6. All exams will be taken in classrooms — Not in halls, on

7. Students are reminded that they are honor bound to
report any suspected violations.
8. Students are reminded they are not to discuss exams in

~9. Students whose exams are late (after 12:15 pm and 5:15
pm) will have their exams so marked.
Violations of any of these rules are considered Honor Code

with Park’s Rexall Drugs on
Main Street. Fein suggested
that the new drugstore could be
a major threat to Park’s busi-
ness, but owner W.A. Parks
maintained. ‘There will always

*&
ae

During heated headball action, the Fijis signal time out to take a

team dive.

sons Development Company, is _
a subsidiary —is primarily con-
cerned with real estate and can
build in Davidson because of —
the small scale of the planned
shopping center.

BS

(Brad Kerr)

Footwear, Anyone?

Tassels, Saddles, wid
Hiking Boots and Casuals
by DUNHAM

Jack Purcell Sneakers
by CONVERSE

Store Hours: 9am to 5:30pm
Mon. thru Sat. closed Tues. afternoons:

icine

