THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Never a dull
moment

There is never a dull moment around here, and this
school year has been an eventful one. Davidson has
enjoyed its share of controversies ranging from the
transition within WDAV to the question of self-scheduled
exams to the famed Sports //iustrated story on basketball
recruiting. The situations surrounding each event have
been extremely varied. Yet each have come down to the
same bottom line: the question of honor and its role in
the everyday dealings of the college community.

The result has been an increased awareness and
growing emphasis withing the college community of the
importance of the Honor Code and Code of Responsi-
bility. The Honor Code first came into the limelight with
the faculty proposal. to do away with self-scheduled
exams. It was then we all realized there was a
problem—in practice or just in expressed concern. But
since that time,’a campaign within each facet of the
college has been waged to make us all conscious of the
vital nature of the Honor Code at Davidson.

It has been successful. We have all pulled in the slack.
And there have been several consequences. One
outgrowth centers on the reaffirmation of mutual concern
between faculty and students. Another deals with trying
to clarify grey areas in such procedures as taking reviews
and exams (see page 2). Altogether, it reflects a lessening
of the ominous “student apathy” to campus affairs that
has been noted so often in the past.

__ We are not perfect. But in comparing ourselves to
colleges and universities across the nation, the strength
of Davidson’s Honor Code looks good. A recent report by
the Carnegie Council on Policy Studies in) Higher
Education (The Chronicle of Higher Education, 23 April)
found signs of “ethical decay” in a nation-wide study: of
colleges and universities. The Council cited several
examples: “Cheating by students on academic assign-

ments, misuse by students of public/financial aid, theft’
and destruction of valuable university property (most.

specifically, library books and journals), inflation of
grades by faculty members, and competitive awarding of

- academic credits and degrees...by some institutions. for
insufficient and inadequate academic work.”

Basically, the council’s concern stems from the
growing scarcity of students in the 1980’s and 1990's.
They fear this might “lead some students to take even
greater advantage of the situation and to. make some
colleges even more reluctant to insist on ethical conduct

by students and even more likely to engage in improper

conduct themselves.”

If we accept this report as the national trend, it should
be clear that Davidson is stubbornly holding its ground.
And evidently, the sense of honor instilled by Davidson’s
academic atmosphere is responsible.

Cheating does go on. But a strong honor court deals
with the offenses. (Note News at a Glance for this year’s
Statistics.) As also reported this week, Davidson students
receiving financial aid-have a very low default record on
loans. And although problems concerning book loss
continue to plague the library staff and college
community, Dr. Park reports a relatively low rate of book
loss in the advertisement he included on page eight.

Of course our records are not totally unblemished. Yet
in evaluating our overall actions and reactions to the
offenses and threats to the Honor Code and Code of
Responsibility throughout the year, the awareness we
‘have developed has only sharpened our sense of
responsibility and honor. :

Sa : —Ann Garner

(See ya
NEXT YEAR)

The Campus Forum

Perspective

To the Editor:

This letter is in anticipation
of the yearly plethora of post-
Old South letters. The majority
of these declarations are against
Old South and all its trappings,
and this one is in agreement
with such pronouncements.
However, it is my hope that I
can temper these arguments

. somewhat by benefit of my

perspective. I am a brother of
Sigma chapter, Kappa Alpha
Order, Davidson College.

I work, eat, and recreate with
the guys in the KA House and
in preface to any of my views I
must state emphatically that
when Old South uniforms are
donned the wearer's soul does
not go through any kind of
metamorphosis. Old South is a
big party with a gimmick. No
more, no:less.

The complaint from many

brothers is that they don’t mean.

any harm by the Old South
function and nothing could be
more true. But the fact remains
that there are disquieting reac-
tions to the presence of Confed-
erate uniforms and rebel yells.
These feelings must be re-
spected by the KA’s here: When
we promenade around Patter-

son Court, the campus, or at ©

some plantation off-campus, we
represent Davidson College. Al-
though intentions may be good
there are certain aspects which
can’t help but be drawn from
this presentation of the Old
South.

What are these aspects?
Namely, one—slavery. Bro-
thers argue, ‘‘We don’t give a
darn about slavery; that’s not
part of the weekend or of our
beliefs.”” But until you’ve been
black for 20 years, how can you
understand?! Ask a Jew to
forget the Holocaust —it’s no
exaggeration. Memories of the
black struggle in the Civil War
bring to mind the same struggle
blacks experi in the 1960's
as well as the struggle they still
face today. That fight. for
rights, respect, and dignity
must be acknowledged.

Maybe we can’t understand
the exact feelings a black stu-
dent may have upon seeing
another student in a plantation
owner's outfit, but we can
appreciate the fact that it does
create a disquieting within him.

Tradition is an overworked

excuse for the perpetuation of
many devices in our school and
in our society. Tradition is not
reason enough to perpetuate an
event that drags out the painful
memories of one hundred years
ago and of yesterday; it is not
reason enough to perpetuate

Old South.
Richard Terry ‘81

book or professor's lecture,
How will one ever know that
there is more unless he or she
asks? What we are calling for is
not rebellion or radicalism,
rather intellectual, social, and
moral curiosity which seeks to -

discern the truth.
Linda Brooks Talbott '79
Carolyn L. Watt 80

Curiosity Gratitude
To the Editor: To The Editor:
to 1 Ann Garner and Dennis
Ae Me Breese (0. ee McLawhorn took over The Dav-

Davidson for the summer, for a
job or graduate school, we
would like to reflect for a
moment on the ‘‘nature’’ of
Davidson students. In talking
with many of our peers we have
discovered a lack of intellectual
curiosity as well as a lack of

moral and social questioning.
Many of us accept much too

readily the values and beliefs of '

our parents, our peers, and our
professors. When was the last
time you questioned your par-
ent’s beliefs? When did you last
question your friend's values or
your professor’s

Asking is part of learning! |

There are s0 many intelligent.

and affluent students here,
why, when there is the ability
and the means, don’t we chal-
lenge questionable, ‘‘tradition-
al’ beliefs and try to change
those things which are unjust?
Few students, for example,
turned out to protest Dr.
Spencer’s decision to take
WDAYV away from the students
(although we sympathized with
those that did protest the
decision). The president might
have been more reluctant had
we the students shown more
interest

And why do many students
continually refuse to show any

sort of interest in events outside.

their academic and social lives?
Our library is filled with news-
Papers from all parts of the
world, yet few students are
willing to discuss national and
international affairs. What hap-
pens in the “‘real world’’ affects

‘us all, even in Davidson. It is

our responsibility as intelligent
citizens to be actively aware of
the world around us, otherwise
it will pass us by.
Life does not begin and end
with reviews, pa
and dates. There is more to
what one learns than is in a

idsonian when the paper was in
a jam. Few know the diffi-
culties they had to face.

Now, five weeks later, their
editorship is spent. And I
would just like to say that I
believe they have done a good
job. Charles Erwin
letters on any subject. All
letters -must be signed. Letters
may be edited for space (over
200 words) and clarity.

lecture?

Ann Gamer
Denns McLawhormn
Co-edtors
°

Gu Peeples. Executive Editor
Martn Hunter. Business Manager
Ralph Lasley. Managing Editor

George Murdaugh. Senior Opinon Editor
Mendeth Durden. Senor Features Edtor
Barry Sachyjen. Senor Sports Editor

°
Rick Jenkins. News Ecitor
Jim Garrett, News Editor
Shen Gravett, Opwwon Editor

Jean Soracco, Features Editor
Bert Mobley. Sports Editor

.

Margaret Jackson. Opinion Graphics Editor
Mike Brit. News Graphics Ector
Diane Odom. Sports Graphics Eartor
°

Donya Boytston. Production Manager
Larry Morton. Advertising Manager
Katen Long. Circulatiqn Manager

Marshall F Cc
Pachard Ne@. Production Assocate
.

Gregg Swader. Photography Drrector
Gar Partin. An Ector

Mark Hess. Asst. Executwe Ector
Mark Barrett. Asst. News Ector
Tane Asst. Features Ector
Rob- ” asst. Sports Edtor

Howard Browne. Assi News Graphics Ector
karen Sandin. Asst. Opewon Graphics Editor
Manone Robertson. Asst. Features Grapiucs Ector

i$ .

Anta Doss. Asst. Production Monayer
Bevery Smah. Asst. Producton Manager
Bruce Lipsdt. Asst. Cxculaton Manages

"Phd Howerton Asst. Photography Orector
Ba Purcet. Asst. Photography Director

