THE DAVIDSONIAN

F 1914

The Office that isn’t

Academic Vice-President Price Zimmermann had a
point last week when he said Davidson can't afford to hire
a full-time director for its rather nebulous, and presently
. Somewhat nonexistant, Office of International Education.

Hiring anyone with a title and credentials would mean
spending money that the schoo! might put to better use
elsewhere— funding for a small private college is a

ticklish thing and involves a jot more than applying for fat:

corporate grants.

Unquestionably, it is wise for the administration to
be cautious in dealing with budgetary matters.

Yet, paradoxically, we wonder whether Davidson can
afford not to hire a full-time director for its successful
Junior Year Abroad and foreign study programs, a
director who could also help the foreign students who
study here adjust to the complex problems of life at
Davidson.

At last count, there were more than 11 people running

the international education program (Admissions Coun-.

setor Tony Boon, Asst. Dean of Students Sue Ross,
Director of Experiential Programs Ken Wood, Housing
Director Scotty Nicholis, German Professor Julius
Winkler, History Professor Maicoim Lester, Classics

. Peofessor George Labban, Art Professor Larry Ligo,
Spanish Professor Lois Kemp, Religion Professor David
Kaylor and several others) and the communication
between them seemed none too enviable.

Many administrators and professors now have to spend
an unreasonable amount of time doing paperwork for the
international education program. And they aren't the only
- ones complaining.

* Students who have traveled abroad under the auspices
of the college generally say they were pleased by their
experiences but at least somewhat dissapointed in the
way Davidson treated them. They complain of being
discouraged while at Davidson and ignored while abroad.

Foreign students who come to Davidson also are
having their problems under the present system.

A suggestion: Why not hire Boon to be full-time
director of the program? He can make up in enthusiasm
what he tacks in credentials.

And from another perspective, his very lack of creden-
tials could be looked upon as an asset (if budgetary
concerns really are what's keeping the college from hiring
a full-time director), because he would-not be in the
position to demand the extravagant salary an expert
might want.

Boon is himself a Davidson graduate and a one-time
participant. in the Junior Year Abroad in Germany
program. He is ahard worker and would do a good job.

As for Boon’s responsibilities in the Admissions
Office, why not hire a Davidson Senior.to spend his year
after graduation working for Dean of Admissions H.
Edmunds White?

There are presently many more seniors who apply for
such one-year post-graduation stints than there are
positions available. Not everybody can be Assistant to
the President or would even want to be, and presently
_there is only one opening in the Admissions Office each
year for seniors to get their hands on. -

Hiring a senior would have two advantages. The college
wouldn’t have to pay a recent graduate as much as it has
to pay Boon for doing his present job, and that would be
an additional budgetary justification for giving Boon the
directorship.

Secondly, recent graduates are still young enough t to
have a strong rapport with high school seniors who are
thinking of coming to Davidson.

Hiring Boon and a senior would get around Zimmer-
mann’s objection, would help students who are desperate
to do something different (whether that means spending
a year in Germany or in the Admissions Office), would be
less confusing to foreign students hére, and would
also save some professors from having to spend their
time doing paperwork when they could be preparing for
their classes.

* No Thanks: I Don't Do Tzeds, .

To the Editor:

This letter is to announce the
formation of a new award to be
given annually at Spring Con-
vocation by Davidson's Omi-
cron Delta Kappa chapter. It is

student's academic and cultural
experience by members of Da-
vidson’s faculty.

In establishing this award,
we seek to complement the
traditional Jeffersonian Award
which, in addition to honoring a
professor as an embodiment of
Jefferson's ideals, acknowled-
ges scholarly achievements and
contributions to the administra-
tive functioning of the college.
The ODK award will focus more
directly upon a.professor’s per-

‘sonal and professional relations
with students.

A further of this
award rests on its selection
process in which a
composed almost entirely of
students will choose the

The selection committee will
consist of seven members of
“ODK (all seniors), the sopho-
more and junior class presi-
dents, and two members
(in the future, the two moet

Nominating a ‘professor will
require a reasonable amount of
time and serious thought on the
part of a student. Nomination
forms will be available begin-
ning February 12, at the Union
desk, the library, and the Dean
of Students’ office. Any student
can submit a recommendation.
These forms must be completed
by March 16. All - material
receivéd will be held in complete
confidence.

‘In addition toa description of

his or her academic and extra-

The Campus Forum:

o

curricular involvement with the are mutilated constantly!

nominee, a student must in-
clude a personal evaluation of
the professor’ 8 and
weaknesses in the following
areas:

1) respect for and interest in
students as individuals;
$ 2) ability to successfully chal-
lenge students in both academic
and non-academic endeavors;

3) apparent confidence and
competence in subject matter,
and enthusiasm and effective-
ness in communicating know-

ledge— accompanied by a con-

tinuing commitment to improve
such competency and effective-
ness;

4) significant contributions
to extracurricular student acti-
vities and community affairs;

5) fairness and thoroughness
in evaluation of students;

6) availability to students.

We hope that students will
utilize this opportunity to honor
those professors who ‘have
greatly influenced them. We
also hope that the recognition of
excellence within the faculty
will encourage others to excel
and thereby strengthen our
institution

WDAV
To the Editor:

I especially enjoyed WDAV's
classical music during the clos-
ing minutes of the Davidson-
Wake Forest baskethall

‘To the Editor:

WDAV’'s new format is a
welcome change and a much
needed addition to our commu-
nity. For that I am grateful,

However, as a continual lis:
tener to the tion, I am
appalled by the &Sparent musi-
cal ignoran the announcers.
The’ names composers and
artists as well as compositions

game.
David Piper '79 ~ -

oO

Can thesé announcers not
check their pronunciations with
dictionary before they
broadcast? Such amateurish
performances are not worthy of
Davidson or of the station.
‘Rosemary Klein
Davidson

COGeoseeee
The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. All
letters must be signed. Letters
may be edited for space (over

200 words) and clarity.

Mark Barrett, Asst. News Editor
den froraceo,Ass?. Features Editor

Howerd Browne, nest, News Graphics Editor 7
Lynn MeCliniock, Asst. Features Graph Graphics Eno”
Tandy Gilliland, Asst. Sports Graphics
'
e

Alcky Watson, Asst. Circulation Manager

. > e ,
Oonya Boytston, Asst. Produgtion Manager
Oon Caldwell, Asst. Director
PhitHowerton, Asst. Photography Director
BIN) Purcell, Asst. Photography Director

