--@—The Davidsonian— October 19, 1979

Sports Scripts

Tennis

John Clarey of Furman took the singles competition and Jeff
Frank, Davidson College tennis coach, teamed with Anderson Col-
lege coach Jim Boykin to win the doubles crown in the Jim Causey
Invitational Tournament hosted by Davidson last weekend.

Clarey beat Nevins Todd, a Davidson sophomore, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4.
Clarey advanced by beating Davidson’s Jay Gepfert in a third set
tiebreaker to move to the finals.

Of Todd, Coach Frank said, “‘I was glad to see him do so well.
This past summer ‘he played in some tournaments and this has
given him some experience.’

To gain the doubles title, Frank and Boykin beat Furman's
number two doubles team of Andy Atkinson and Frank Taylor,
7-6, 684. In the semi-finals they had to beat Furman’s number one
team of Clarey and Barton.

Coach Frank was especially pleased with his team’s doubles
play. Six of the eight Davidson doubles teams won in the first
round. He noted excellent performance from the younger doubles
teams of Lazenby and Paul Griffith and the team of Bill Bennett
and Todd.

The tennis team’s Saturday match with Hampden-Sydney has

been cancelled; however, Davidson's Friday match is still on with a
UNCC team that Coach Frank says is ‘‘vastly improved over last
year since they now give tennis scholarships.”

— TOM PAFFORD

It’s been a tough week for the Davidson soccer team. The
Wildcats saw their record slip to 6-8 with losses to two superior
teams, Georgia State and UNC-Charlotte.

Saturday Davidson took on Georgia State at home, a game that
was excessively rough and saw one player from each team given a
red.card and ejected from the game. The Wildcats were able to

hag tough with the excellent Georgia State squad in the first half, ©

though giving up two goals.

But Davidson was overwhelmed in the second half, allowing five
geal: Davidson’s lone tally in the 7-1 loss was by substitute
forward Peter Hairston in the late going.

~ On arch-rival UNCC’s rock-hard field the Wildcats met a itaeak

improved 49er squad. Once again the Wildcats played an
aggressive first half, but eventually found themselves einaacaiaed
pushed back playing defense.

GliCie feak bait beni Caine in the final micnites ona nearspest

header off a corner kick. The 49ers dominated the second half,
scoring on two breakaways past the diving Mike Iorodanou. The
game, plagued by poor officiating, ended with UNCC winning 3-0.

The Wildcats weren't able to get their passing attack generating,
and once again, as they seem to do every game, played well one half
and poorly the other. Standing out was the consistently good play
‘of Pete Sluiter at fullback and the aggressive action of sweeper Dan
Robinson.

This week Davidson plays Friday at home against VMI and

away Wednesday on Appalachian State’s astroturf against
the nationally ranked Mountaineers. Both are im Southern
Conference matchups. —TED. JONES

Footbal!

Davidson buckled it up and played nose-to-nose against Lehigh
last Saturday, but came away with a hard-fought 10-0 loss.

The Wildcats’ defense played well all afternoon, holding the
vaunted Engineer passing attack to 66 yards and quarterback Rick
Andres to only four completions in 17 attempts.. Meanwhile, the
offense never got untracked in gaining only 181 total yards. It went
into the game'as the nation’s third-ranked offense in Division
1-AA, averaging 405 yards a.game.

Coach Ed Farrell commented after the game, ‘We have nothing ~

to be ashamed of. I’m not saying I’m happy, but we played a tough
game against a good 1-AA opponent.”

This Saturday, the Hampden-Sydney Tigers invade Richardson
Field for Parent's Weekend. They have played close, emotional
games against. Davidson in the past .and this year proves no
exception as they feature a quick defense, led by All-American
tackle Tim Smith.
_> Five Davidson turnovers-proved very ‘costly against Lalich as

the Cats gave up two fumbles and three ‘interceptions: Although
the defense consistently gave the offense good field position, the
Wildcats failed to take advantage against a tough Lehigh defense.

The game's only touchdown came in the first. quarter. Lehigh
recovered a Mickey Dillon fumble on the Davidson 20. The defense
held and. the: Engineers lined up for a 32-yard field goal attempt.

The kick was.wide, but Davidson was charged with an’ offside; %,

penalty. That gave Lehigh the ball and the first down on the 10
yard line. Three plays later Joe Rabuck punched it over from the 1.

—DAVE DONALDSON: <>

Tell Your
Mother
You’re Going

When the spirit moves you—and
mother can cough up a couple of

‘bucks — move on up to the mountains

and the Waynesville Country Club &
Inn. During the fall and winter, our 53-
year-old resort is a great place to get
together for fraternities, sororities,
clubs, or just a group of friends.
We're specialists at arranging week-
day or weekend packages — but you
set the schedule, and the price.

We can wine you and dine you, set up
our big meeting room for a fantastic
dance, or just make sure you have a
nice place to sleep —or study, if it
comes to that. Our daily rates start
as low as $22 per person, double
occupancy. Call or write our ‘‘Dean of
Recreational Activities" and let us
set up a special package for you.

§ Bring this “letter” (coupon) with you and get a free drink.

SUGGESTED CLASS SCHEDULE

2 days. 2 nights: $99 per person. dbl. occ.

Time Activity Place
8:45 AM | Wake up Room
9:04 AM |Country Breakfast Woodcrest
9:55 AM | Loafing 401 Grounds
10:55 AM | Backgammon. poker. yoga |Game Room
12:00 Nap 301 Optional
1:05 PM | Cloud Gazing Back 9
4:00 PM | Putting Around 101 Putting Green
5:00 PM | Encounter Session 101 Birdie Lounge
6:00 PM {Sit-down gourmet dinner |Main Dining Room
7:30 PM | Advanced Encounter 404 {Birdie Lounge
9:00 PM } Evening Activity Tap Room. Lounge.
(To be announced) Game Room. etc.
1:00 AM | Submarine races. bird Parking Lot
watching (unsupervised)
2:55 AM | Exam Room

‘Electives:Golf. Tennis, Skiing. Hiking. Horseback Riding

Extra: Groups of 15 or more receive FREE ‘Study
Week "' t-shirt. Call or write our dean" today.

rile Country Chub Inn

p 0. Box 390 Waynesville, NC 28786 Phone Be os 2258

