pO--neldoebivs€. odT--GTCL 1 1dmsosd

eee
ey

Bee THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 191 4

Vh esa priibiincs good?
A eae ’
he ta the midst of all the faculty evaluation furor it is
a important to. consider just what students think makes a
_ good teacher. Most students, when asked, will think for a
minute and then laugh when they realize that they just

-. can't articulate what they think re a professor

ne excellent.

"|, too, have. trouble articulating vite makes a good
Professor. My idea of a good teacher has little to do with
the daily mechanics of teaching and lots to do with how
the professor approaches life. Teachers who search for
the. mysteries in their subject and so are not afraid,

- (indeed they are even: eager) to grapple with them.
_ Teachers that seem to have all the answers are the ones
that inspire. me the least. It is an oft stated fact that the
moré one learns, the more one realized how ignorant he |
5s. Professors are important to students because they
v but instead of feeling defeated, they are
spurred on by challenge. They have chosen to live lives
__bent on making a dent in their ignorance.

Pr f$ need to make it clear that they know more
than the students and that they are in charge of the
course and its direction. Student ideas should be used as

springboards for other avenues or exploration. Student
_ comments should never become the driving force behind
any course.
Nothing is more eiretrating t nan netanty getting
entertained rather than stimul Entertainment is
momentarity enjoyable while stimufation: is forever
frustrating. A professor who constantly entertains is
cheating everyone in the class. ;

Other students conceptions of what makes a ge

ere teacher often conflict with my ideas.

“t personally like profs that make learning effortless end
enjoyable,” said Michael Busch, senior class president. “|
don’t believe in the ‘no pain no gain’ theory that is
prevalent among Davidson professors.”

And some concur: “Teachers should push students to
the limits of their ability,” stated John Jackson, SGA
President, “but should be very sensitive to what that limit
is.”

Almést anyone’s list of attributes of a good professor
would include enthusiastic, organized, inspiring, respon-
sible and concerned. Just exactly how these are
expressed through teaching varies with the field, the
course and the professor.

Some students demand more. Senior Rick Johnston
includes factors like “accessible to students” and “plays
an active role in non-academic affairs of the college,” and
“grades fairly” in his list of charactgeristics of a good
professor. He also feels a good professor “turns back
tests and papers on time—why should | feel the need to
keep up with my work in a course if the professor is not
able to keep up with his responsibilities?

Student ideas about what makes a professor good are
probably as varied as faculty ideas about what constitutes
good teaching. But few in either group would argue with
Jim Haynes’ definition of a good professor. The senior
class senator believes that “A good teacher is one who
can instill in students an almost insatiable desire to learn,
and then point them along the way to satisfying that
desire.”

The problem is, ‘how can we measure something that
nebulous? We must. measure iit that is that

important.

The Campus Forum.

Social Life At son
To the Editor:

The social life here at David-
son is an important part of our
learning experience. Unfortu-
nately, the social scene at our
fair college is not always what it
could be. This problem is no
one’s fault but our own. I am
amazed at how many people
approach a Davidson party on a
weekend here with a negative,
condescending attitude. I have
noticed that. many Davidson-
ians feel that parties at D.C. are
a ‘‘waste of time.’’ I am further
perturbed by the closed social
groups to which we all belong.

In a small college there is no
reason that we should not be
more open. Granted that we are
an unusual group. We all have
diverse interests, ideas, and
personalities, but as educated
people we should learn to over-
come our differences. Getting
along with people is a valuable
lesson that we should learn
here. To enjoy the differences
that people offer is a step

' further.

Socializing offers an opportu-
nity for us to get acquainted. I
understand the problems some
of us face. Too much work, the
male-female ratio, and not
enough enthusiasm are stand-
ard criticisms of Davidson’s
social scene. Each one of us

o makes up a part of the social life

here and it is the responsibility
of all 1300 of us to make it work.

I believe that the Wildcat
who does not enjoy the social
opportunities that we have is
cheating himself. After all,
what will you remember in ten

‘or twenty years—your organic

chemistry, your macroeconomic

gentlewoman) a perfect ass. Get
to know different people! The
freshman hall party, the frater-
nity keg party, the 900 Room
disco, and even the five phi fly
high parties are all opportuni-
ties to unwind and meet new
people. I think that you will be
surprised to find many other
nice people live here once you
break the ice.

The winter term.at Davidson
has traditionally been my least
favorite term. The blue sky
turns to gray and students seem
to hibernate until spring break.
The ‘‘winter bitch” descends on
Davidson, draining the morale
and initiative of the students. I
have seen it happen in the past.
We can avoid it by keeping
active. Break away from your
routine, try something new,
enjoy a new group of friends,
but most importantly, don’t
become too serious about your-
self. :

George Cornelson, '80

Cambodia

To the Editor: .

We are only remotely affected
by the starvation of millions in
Cambodia. Sure many of us
contribute money to the Relief
efforts, but is money enough? It
is a time for Christmas cheer
and Christmas parties—and a
need for serious self-analysis.

This week before Christmas,
eating houses, clubs and orga-
nizations will be throwing
Christmas parties. This is
great; there's nothing wrong
with sharing, talking and being
with friends. But when this
sharing, talking and being with

friends revolves around the |

excessive eating and drinking,

we question the necessity of
celebrating in this fashion. Does
an abundance of resources justi-

. fe sie: _ them? Is our

majority of human kind, which

has no choice about lifestyle.
David Litaker '80
Ann Tutwiler '80

Solar Greenhouses

To the Editor:

We thank Mr. Ken Wood and
the Davidson ‘College students
who helped to collect funds and
materials for the Solar Green-
house constructed in Hunters-
ville at the home of Earnest and
Gertrude Williams. We also
want to thank Mr. Ken Wood
and the students for their
participation in the construc-
tion of the Solar Greenhouse.

We hope that this project will
be a learning experience for all
of us.

Anyone in the area is wel-
come to come over to the
Williams's home for a tour of
the Greenhouse and information
concerning Solar Greenhouses.

Levera Wynn

Merideth Durden
Editor
Bil Peeples, Executive Editor
e

Mark Barrett, News Editor
Etiott Hipp, Opinions Edi
Bert Mobley, Sports Editor
Jean Soracco, Features Editor

Margaret Jackson, Opwwons Graptucs Editor
Lex Alexander, Sports Graphics Editor
Janie Larus, Features Graplucs Echtor

.Bill Appleton, Art Editor

Karen Long, Crculaton Manager
John McDowell, Advertsing Manager

