Art

3 setts Seer’ Ragcerss Herb Jackson, better known as “that asshole who wears the
, _ There are two things about Davidson sunglasses inside Chambers,“ has sa Notine taste
: : Pe a ek elusive goal of “fooling all-of the people all of the time.” He
oe ee Sete) te be-proud oF. now heads the Davidson Art Department, refuting once and for
| The first is the campus. The second is all that Silly notion that pre-meds who pol Hoge it into med
} school wind up pumping gas for the rest of their lives.

cass Smal A | When the job market started getting tight a few years ago,
To misconstrue this supplement to the Herb saw that biology and ROTC weren't going to shake any

a ni 3 bucks loose from the money tree. What he did see, however,
: a ee ceonsen as was a burgeoning market for 60’s relics among guilt-ridden

|
| an attack on Davidson's faculty would be college administrations trying to Stange intr corporate
. unfa: j ‘ ; image. So, with the analytic mind he inherited from his father
| bo at co dean ha) Soe ws Teepect the doctor, Herb invested: he got a permanent, learned a few
| and admire the professors who teach at this Zen clichés, wore a purple cape, named his kid Air Leif Fire
and Water Jackson, and took up marijuana. :
ee oe wou? Baye east lly co thee Herb’s finances testify to the fact that he managed to find
} any harm. ae : the one field no one knows anything about--including
Sty RE 4 is ' hi sistent refusal to answer
If this supplement is an attack upon himself--modern art. Only his per

r : 06 “F | questions or to teach. has hidden this fact from President
} anything, it is an attack upon Charles Spencer (who, in Frank Zappa’s words, wouldn't know art if it
| Erwin. This twit’ thinks that he knows bit him in the ass anyway). However, to the experienced eye,
" Herb’s tremendous performance has failed to obscure three

everything about Davidson, and about basic facts: that he can’t paint, he can’t teach, that he has all

editing @ newspaper, when in fact he knows the sex appeal of a tree stump.

nothing about either. :

A newspaper at a college such as Ligo

Davidson should be fun to work on. This Larry Ligo may not know any more about Basic Studio than

one is not. An editor should be sympathetic Herb Jackson, but boy can he run a slide projector.

to his workers. This one is not.

If anything, he has already driven off Warren

some of the most talented people from the

staff, including an Executive Editor, a Professor Warren is the best of all possible reasons to bring
Managing Editor (the academic problems of Prof Emeritous Doug Houchens out of the ozone layer and
; retirement.

whom he spread all over campus, when it was
none of his business), a Features Editor -
(who was literally driven to tears by god Biology
almighty editor), and now people from the

Graphics Department.

His editorials have not represented Case
the feelings of any of the Davidsonian Sister Verna, the Biology Department’s answer to Debra Jo
staff. If he feels that his is a position Fondren, is interested in a single subject: sex. Sex in

: ring-necked doves. Sex in zebra finches. Sex in frogs. Sex in

of public trust; and if he thinks he has gorillas. Sex in Dana. Sex in Chambers.

2 Like all good professors, her teaching i h

mandate from the student bod ’ g 's very muc

sce sort of - . Oey» influenced by her interests. Her lectures are sensuous; her
then he is wrong. The only reason he was tests obscene. When it comes to grading...

elected is because he was running against
a SPE who knew nothing at all about journal-

ism. ; Prony
You have managed to alienate a large Tom Daggy, the only man on the faculty who’s gotten so old,
oust’ of the student body, Charles Ervin, that he . lll to vegetate, has been senile for more that eight
2 r=) ; . * : 5
ek 0. cou cava do for us 012 a Ae irst showed up in rather harmless ways. One day he
g € scientific name for common ragwort. Then he forgot
is to resign immediately, and go back to the correct answers to his test questions (the now-famous
sa “ .

Ge ee pga thie. iidgeait22 “ ue. Dr. Daggy never changes the questions on his tests,
: Just the answers” is much more than just another joke). Then

have you back. If the professors you have he forgot where he lives and where he works. ~
“allowed bpeadbeistaen't get you first One day Sam Spencer and Grover Meetze found him dritting

absent-mindedly through a host of golden daffodils, singing
the following in a nasal high-pitched voice: “How various are
thy insects, O God; and how various the flowers they feed

nae eS

| © 3 . | _ upon.” Behind him trailed a fove-sick cow.

. ae es / o a ?. | H eee. f Sam and Grover took him home and put him to bed.

: wets : ea Ev Soon he was up and about again but terribly confused. They
: taught him to sleep in the botany lab with his right eye peering

Bee: ps 3 - _into a microscope so that everyone would think he still knows

a eee Harry R. Greyard Tajlsblants once stae Puig They taught him to sleepily

4 3 ss Chairman » Media Board the blackboard so he wont pa > geese ty a

to live a useful Christian life again. Davi |
aes ae : institution. wes rae i ss anes

srg nee! ; EEE, . ek - valet tteiadies < o-oo ~ ORCC aie eS a 3
: : Ae se Mi EP ILELIS ~¥ - ‘ DA GUNS Bid

aces F 1 ~
sacar sa taattta ett CTL ELL, TLC Lt CNEL CU LT CC CLL EL LL LC LT NLL AL CN TAA ASS SSS

