October 10, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

Being seen together means more than it should

By JOHN P. BROCKWAY
Faculty Guest Columnist (

I would like to suggest that at.
Davidson College there appears to be a
situation that has been described by two
social psychologists, Richard Nisbett
and Lee Ross, in their recent book
‘entitled Human Inferences: Strategies
and Shortcomings of Social Judgment.
That situation relates to dating, or the
dating scene, and may be described
loosely as follows: When two persons are
seen together in one another’s company
or présence in more than one place on
more than one occasion they are assum-
ed by ‘most’ to be an item, a couple, and
by extension, unavailable to others who
might like to date either of them. It is
the intention of this article to suggest
that such thinking may be faulty, if not
completely wrong, and the incorrectness
of these ‘‘intuitions’’ may have at its
base certain psychological underpin-
nings shared by us all.

Jerome Bruner (1957) has suggested
that ‘‘the most characteristic thing
about mental life, over and beyond the
fact that one apprehends the events of
the world around one, is that one
constantly goes beyond the information
given.” That is, the individual is not a
dutiful register of information, but an
active interpreter, one who resolves
ambiguities, makes educated guesses
about the events that cannot be ob-
served directly, and forms inferences
about associations and causal relations
(Nisbett and Ross, 1980, p. 17). More-
over, these authors suggest that persons
use various strategies which permit and
encourage one to venture beyond the
information given, beyond the immed-
iate implications of the circumstances,
and in the normal course of events, this
going-beyond-the-data provides the bas-

is for ‘‘quick, coherent, but occasionally

erroneous interpretations of new exper-
ience.”’

Two strategies which they discuss are
especially appropriate here, and may be
directly or indirectly responsible for the
‘immediate pairing-off (IPO) syndrome’
which I suggest exists at Davidson.
these two strategies are labeled the
availability heruistic and the representa-
tiveness heuristic and were first written
about by Daniel Kahneman and Amos

- ~ infrequent item. The higher the fre-

quency of occurrence, the easieran event
is able to be recalled or remembered, and
) for Nisbett and Ross, the more likely the
frequently occurring item is to produce
inferential errors. An example of this
might run this way. Two- persons at
Davidson walk in each other’s company
from the Union to roughly the vicinity of
Patterson Court. They are seen by, let us
say ten persons, who know them, and
more importantly know each other.
There is one occurrence of walking across

Dating or just feeding the dog?

Tversky (1972, 1973, 1980). These
heuristics are simple judgmental strat-
egies which produce inferences, and in
this case are probably responsible for our
IPO syndrome. Both these strategies
seemed to be used in an automatic and
nonreflective fashion, and seem free of
any conscious consideration of approp-
riateness.

The availablility heuristic deals with
an aspect of memory which is well
known: that a frequently occurring event
is more available for recall than an

Delivery Service —_ peregrine House

oS bl RB ly Thursday night Happy Hour
a 9 pm until...

get your
| ice cold beer

8:30 until
7 Days a Week

Oe Pitchers $1.75

4:30 - 6:30

892-8686

campus, but there are ten persons who
experience this same event. In conver-
sation among each other, as a matter of
course, the event will be mentioned,
and the frequency (in memory, of course)
of the event has now risen by as many
times as the event is mentioned by and
among this group. This ‘‘pairing’’ of two
individuals now is more available im
memory. When it becomes more avail-
able it is more likely to allow inferences,
or going beyond the information given.
Thus, a likely inference which might be
drawn by one of the perceivers of this
single event, which has been raised in
availability among the ten could go
along these lines, ‘‘So, Mary and John
are spending a lot of time together,’’ or
‘‘Everyone is seeing Mary and John
together lately.’’ Other inferences which
might be drawn are, “They must like
each other they are spending so much
time together.’’ Or, ‘‘Since John is
spending so much time with Mary, I
guess he must have had a fight with
Ann.”’

Now the representativeness heuristic
involves the application of the ‘‘good-
ness of fit’’ criterion to problems of
categorization. In making a judgment,
according to Kahneman and Tversky,
people assess the degree to which the
salient features of the object are repre-
sentative of, or similar to, the features
presumed to be characteristic of the
category (Nisbett and Ross, 1980, p. 24).
That is, for our problem of fitting people
into the category of ‘‘couple”’ or ‘‘dating
pair’ or ‘‘steady”’ or ‘‘her man or his
woman” people are making this judg-
ment upon the most salient features,
presumably. In using the represent-
ativeness heuristic, what the person is
likely to overlook is the base rate of
information. The base rate of informa-
tion cannot be extracted from any single
occurrence, but must be compiled
through sampling procedures—really
the basis for statistics. When a person
does not have ANY idea of the base rate,
salient features of the event come to
play, and often mislead the perceiver in
classification and categorezation.

In our case, we would have to have a
base rate for the number of ‘‘couples”’ at
Davidson who were together and who
did not want to date any other person.
That is, we would have to discover in
some manner exactly how many of the
persons who were ‘‘couples” did and did
not want to date others. Since we do not
have this data base, Tversky and
Kahneman suggest that we infer the
data base from inappropriate samples
(that which we have seen and heard—
remember the availability. heuristic?).
This inferencing procedure, quite a part
of our normal repertoire of :mental
activities, is in a large. part

» 4

“don’t want to date. any other persons.”
Or, “Most whom I would like to
don’t to me.” Notice, neither
of these two inferencee is based on an.
but more probably on- ~@ persona
inference, or judgment which has toe
labeled the representativesness heur-
istic.

Neither of these two heuristics is rare,
presumably, but are common in our
thinking patterns, usually serving for.
interpretations of new experience, They
may be responsible for other well-recog-
nized phenomena as well.
