Davidson’s Intercollegiate Sailing Team. initiated their spring
season last weekend with a second place overall finish in a regatta
hosted by the University of Virginia on Lake Monticello. Old
Dominion University captured first place in the team standings,
Davidson was second, and UVA finished third.

Cat sailors included skippers Ned Greer and Don Rose and fresh-
man crew members Mort Ames and Bill Bankhead. -Greer

skippered Davidson’s entry in the A Division to a 2nd place finish _

which was also Rose’s place finish in the B Division.

The UVA Regatta was a points regatta; the top four teams after
the regular season races advance to the championship regatta.
(Davidson conipetes in a sfk-team division.)

Next weekend the team travels to Kerr Lake for races hosted by
Duke University and in two weeks Davidson will be the home
school for a Lake Norman Regatta. -—+VAN BECK

Women’s Tennis

The Women’s Tennis Team, now sporting a 7-2 record, added
’ two more wins to its list this past week. On Monday in a clase
match against Presbyterian College, the Cats played excellent
doubles which tilted the score in their favor. The match against
UNC-Charlotte Tuesday was an easy win with the girls si it
in the singles.

Coach Pat Miller warns however that this week holds some tough
matches: ‘‘Guilford, whom the girls play tomorrow; is an

aggressive team with some good players.” Scheduled for early next

week are two other strong teams: High Point and Furman.

While Miller is pleased with the Cat’s performance, she is
anxious about the coming matches and frustrated by lack of
practice time. She.complains that they've only had ‘‘two outdoor
practices due to the bad weather!” Despite this, she is optimistic
and ‘says that the girls are working hard to reach the Regionals on
May 9 and 10. —NINA BROOME

‘Davidson Relays

Whittle Track will be the site of the 21st Annual Davidson

‘Relays, scheduled for Saturday, April 5th. The Relays, sponsored

by the Wildcat Club and directed by Sterling Martin, will feature
top men’s and women’s track teams from colleges throughout the
South, Mid-Atlantic and East Coast regions.

Thirty men’s teams, including last year’s overall winner Virginia
Tech, are tentatively entered for Saturday’s competition. Other
perenially strong track schools to watch include: Duke University ,
Johnson C. Smith University, Towson State University, Wake

Forest University, North Carolina A&T and Appalachian State ;
University. Fourteen teams are scheduled for the women’s .

competition. Duke, Johnson C. Smith, N.C. A&T, Appalachian
State and Virginia Tech can be expected to field strong

The 10,000 meter event, set for 8:45 a.m., will be the first
competition fo the day with the mile relay finishing things up at

4:50 p.m. Admission is free for all students. ° —VAN BECK
een

BARBER STYLING 892-1933

20% off on all styles for men
and women for the entire month
of Apel with this coupon.

‘featuring:
3 Precision Hair Cuts Razor Cuts z
Main St., Cornaliets across’ from Western Auto)

The Tonsure

“Beard Design

SMITH‘S FLOWERS

302 SMITH CIRCLE 892-8856
CORNELIUS

COLLEGE NIGHT

PIZZA SPECIAL

this thursday

5:00 - 7:30

all the pizza you can eat $3.25
_ pitchers $1.75

— DELIVERIES —

8:30 - 11:00
everyday of the week
$5.00 MINIMUM
50 DELIVERY CHARGE

892-8686

MAIN ST., DAVIDSON
SPECIALTIES OF THE HOUSE

THE GEORGE inn. icc cues $2.80
Tender Corned Beef piled high with creamy
cole slaw, russian dressing, topped with
cheese on our special onion roll.

Corned Beef, russian dressing, kraut, swiss
cheese, spicy mustard on rye served hot.

HOTWHLUE .................. $2.80
- A mound of Roast Beef, bell peppers and

onions, topped with provolone cheese on
fresh whole wheat bread.

Chopped barbecue seasoned with barbecue
ee eee
hoagie roll.

FALCONS FEAST .............. $3.45
Ham, Beef, Corned Beef, Pastrami and Turkey
with cheese, lettuce, tomato, and onions ona
hoagie roll.

EOE bc gsice sseiedeas coats 04 $2.60

Mushrooms and hell peppers covered with
provolone cheese served hot with lettuce or
_ ABROUYS nek torn.

~ Sweet Italian: sausage cnvarad with tangy
tomato sauce and topped with pure Mozarella

Cheese melted on a hoagie roll pias!
SINATRA ...... 2... cece eee +. $2.78

with tomato sauce and topped with pure

— Mozzarella Cheese on @ hoagie roll.
