THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

We commend President Spencer for his proposal that
faculty and-staff compensation: ‘be increased by an
ene of 12.5%.

Dr. Spencer's recommendation is a bold and apparently
_ unprecedented move designed to begin to deal with the
College’s most serious problem. Both the compensation —
increase and the accompanying $575 hike in student fees
‘will be. the highest in recent memory if enacted. Dr.
‘ Spencer's move is also unusual since it is the first time he .
~ has made any budget recommendations posse acai =
Trustees" ‘budget meeting.

‘But drastic measures -are certainly called for, and
cannot be confined merely to student fees. As Dr.

Objectors

To the Editor: .

Presidents Carter’s proposal
to resume draft registration
combined with events in the
Middle East, verbal commit-
ments to India. and Pakistan,
and the discussion of the use of
tactical nuclear weapons bring
war much closer to the.front of
American minds. Young people
in this country have not been
well prepared for this sudden
shift in the national mood.
Many Davidson students are
unsure about what registration
and the draft means for them as

. -Gitizens; as humant :beings,..as

members .6f:religious groups
‘and as free individuals.

Some say: they could not be
involved with actual-killing;
some feel the government has

no claim to their lives; some.are

effectiveness as a leader of
development. This is not a
serious problem for a teacher at
an established school whose job
is chiefly to teach. The diffi-
culty arises whenever a volun-
teer is also a headmaster. One
finds oneself struggling to make
some sort of progress—and
making it little by little—only
to realize that all gains will
collapse in failure as soon as one
leaves. A single year is simply
not long enough to leave a
lasting impression,

I know that whatever little
progress I make will be wasted
if no one replaces’ me as Head-

master. The only way my work
here, or work by any Davidson
volunteer, can be valid.is if
there is continuity of service.

This continuity can only be

provided by Davidson itself.
“Tn easence, I am advertising

Jon Lawry’s Mom
Replies To B&2BB

To the Editor:

The other day as I was
delivering my son Jon’s chicken
soup and clean long underwear,
I happened to notice that his
pet bird appeared to be terribly
loose, if you know what I mean.
It so happens that Jon. had
placed. a few recent. editions of
your newspaper in the bottom
of the bird’s cage. Well, I
thought, this bird has some
potential as a critic. As I
removed the paper and replaced
it with the Mooresville Tribune,
I noticed your. January 24 and
31. Bonehead and Brick
Brothers’ articles with refer-
ences about my son, Jon.

Shame on you for writing
such things about this poor boy

instruction as well as participating in the everyday atteirs
of the College. .

As a small college, Davidson necessarily asks.a lot of
its professors. Faculty member participate in many
committees: governing such disparate areas as Watson
Fellows ‘nominees and Honor Code’ appeals. Davidson
professors must teach much more than publish, meaning
that they must sacrifice most. hopes - of employment
elsewhere. To reward them with such small:amounts of
money is-a damaging Injustice which» Dr.: Spencer's
‘recommendations would help rectify. if enacted.

mation, offer counselling and
support, and aid each student in
making an informed decision we

would like to announce the for-.

mation of the Davidson Com-
mittee on Conscientious Objec-
tion, Our first campus-wide
_ meeting will be an informal
open forum on Registration, the
Draft and Conscientious Objec-
_ tion, This will happen Tu

graduate willing to assume the
responsibility of developing a
young school is desired. The
successful Volunteer should be
prepared to live in a “remote”

_area and should stay for at least.

a year, if possible two. The
volunteer should arrive in Ken-
ya no later than August 24,
1980. Any person interested
, in more information about the

1 hile 50 Americans are
Spencer has recognized, the present low level of faculty  philosophically.opposed to any and exciting job opening and Ww being
compensation cannot be ignored any longer, or tatload involvement with warfare or the appealing for a Davidson volun- ee eae ee he bee
away by sometimes dubious comparisons with other ilitary. Most have ae aa es lbs aie? ws acme
‘ * it * eeded or ’ ’
schools. Our ‘orp alle ch And this. hurts a ught — . wid Miata Harambee Secondary School with preserving his bones and
If the Trustees are at all ouncaaed with maintaining the ro aad ti dt Me y kdiee oan) Ace sal ak pls Tos
important to our lives as young graduate presen - Ane pep
quality of education at Davidson and treating our Adietoa rw, ‘ 3 _, position stupid—Feh! Such a version of
‘employees fairly, they have no immediate recourse but to = a ;
approve all of Dr. Spencer’s recommendations. An ru
average of $20,731 is not a fair salary for, men and women Th Ca (Pp Fo, Ah]
who for the. most part, after long years earning their © m, US
doctorates, are asked to put in long hours in personalized = ih uided bo help Sinden A resourceful, self-reliant “Hava Nagila” 1 have

heard.

So, go ahead, make fun of my
poor weak-eyed son. I am sure
Mile acpi? ci

Beverly Lawry

Mooresville,N.C.

P,S. I am sure your reward will

not be good grades. in English.

It. is **‘weren’t here,’’ not
wasn’t here.”’

Editor's note: We checked, and

“Not only would enactment of Dr: Spencer's recom- night, February 19 at 7:00 p.m. school and the job of headmas- this letter really was written by
in the 900 Room. There will ter should write: J aes

mendations help right a financial wrong done the faculty, 4, 5 endaiite.: Mhepkbare Phil Caine no :

wt it: would prevent 4 serious drop in the quality of a and information. phovis and Headmaster Mddvongrtacecesese
: The welcomes let-
Davidson, education. The consistent dectine of faculty many opportunities to air your ‘Sharausinjiri Secondary School Baer
nsatic 1 against inflation for the past ten years has, questions and feelings, The P.O. Box 16. <j rong ee. We! ee.

along .with. administrative inaction, resulted. in a meeting will not be long, but it Kakamega, Kenya fi ck i Aap ye a.

_dangerously. Jow, levelof. faculty. morale. Although . ‘could matter very much.to you : ssiasts bi planed Sicilian net

Davidgon professors have.a great deal.of integrity, it only in the coming year. Everyone is | | Women’s Bball vecilnsaalte Stas Masada: wate.

stands to: reason. aint underpaid. and.disillusioned | welcome.. . a

it ag. wales they would if they The Davidson Committee on To the Editor: OF Se Tene a Pen:
Pe pecaip. ene _. Brie Christensen. basketball games, but never | 5°ian, Box: 218, Davidson
in the: pearett er Guahliee Have and make. it dase pock N.C. 28036 of bring them by the
Susan Marynowski have I been so irivolved that I. N-C. 28036 or bring y:
“more ditficutt to retain-older tacutty members ” Andy Miller felt as if I were playing the  ¢wspaper’s office.on the third
No one is pretending that:in ‘ JeannieNewman game. At least not until the floor of the College Union.

final answer‘to the faculty: compensation picbiom. Rush Otey Women’s Basketball game_

As Religion Professor Max Polley pointed out last week, Emily Partin Thursday night, January 24.

increasing student fees is only a “hand to mouth” Every time the Wildcattes took

solution. Students and their parents cannot fairly be Kenya Program the ball down the court, I want-

expected to bear the full brunt. of the effort to make ed to make that basket as much Mark Barrett

faculty compensation adequate. The effects would be ,, 4. as the team did. Editor

disastrous if they were. Access to. Davidson would be *° ‘he Pditor There is something different |

about Women’s Basketball. The
radiation of energy and excite-
‘ment by the Women’s team
snatches the spectators into
the game. The team has such
determination that the fans
can’t help getting involved. It
was one of the most
games that I have seen and I
can’t believe I have missd

limited to the rich, along with a very few poor, reinforcing
the already unacceptable homogeneity of the student
body. And even tHe rich might turn elsewhere should
Davidson's fees phyreceot while other schools’ increase
gradually |
asting solutions to the faculty compensation problem _

would probably involve fundamental changes in the areas
of the athletic budget, the building program, and fund
raising. Our, football. and basketball expenditures are

by Davidson graduates’ willing-
ness to volunteer as teachers in
Kenya. It is a phenomenon
which I hope will become a
proud tradition of Davidson

There is, however, an in-
herent flaw in Davidson’s ser-
vice to Kenya. Davidson grad-

year-1o-yearcoste which can ether be drastically reduced off bok ati ee “Te lrg, Cen Mame
tra €xperiencé'a past two seasons. John McDowell, Advertising Manager
) different culture (as I am) — What disappoints me is the | Kevin Wheelock, Advertsing Manager
‘ echibol: with graduate following of the Women’s team. Pepe aes, eeanen Sermon
he st eis. A deserving school in Not only do they deserve a Fak Tie Phomprapty Ear
xs MuC CThepenedp ah po coger snap abd egsrae ond much larger crowd but the ee oi
an be der gets students also owe it to them- Craig White, Asst. Editor
ec rt pon ie od an mcntnie ot experience—both benefit. selves to go see this dynamic ihe ced a) -sc.nerpll
faculty pay. Changing athletic Seton —— The problem with this is that a display.
ithe op. voutie ea:tncredibly shor: time. The next chance to see the Ficherd Neil, Production Associate
It normally takes a volunteer Women’s team play at home is | Mash! Weddell, Production Associote
about six months to really Monday, February 18, at 5:00 oo?
_ become oriented and then after in Johnston Gym. Let's all get
only six more months he is on together and support the team
his way home. The result is that “We'll be giad we did.
the volunteer has only a limited 4

Renee Hedgepeth '81 _

