THE DAVIDSONIAN

Magna Vis Veritatis

Volume LXIX, Number 14

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

February 1, 1980

Burts foresees no registration problems

‘By JIM REESE
Staff Writer

Six professors will be on leave
this spring, but Registrar Ri-
chard Burts foresees no major
problems with registration for
next term.

Last spring approximately
500 students did not receive
three classes in the registration
process. Burts said the major
reasons for the course squeeze
were the closing of Martin
Science Building, which elimi-
nated many science classes, and
the excessive number of profes-
sors on leave.

‘‘Normally,’’ Burts said,
“there are 100-150 students
without three courses after re-
gistration each term. So, of
course, we were concerned that
500 students did not secure

The Jazz Ensemble performed in the 900 Room last weekend.

three classes.”’

With the additional science
classes and the lower number of
professors on leave this spring,
the chance for a registration
problems similar to last year’s
is slim. Burts said schedules
will be issued next week, and
“many variables are involved,
so we won’t know if there’s a
problem until the process is
done. In add/drop I am confi-
dent everyone will be accommo-
dated.’’

According to Burts, the de-
parture of Political Science Pro-
fessor Jody Encarnation, who
was to teach two courses next
term, will not be much of a
problem. Burts said the number
of students who will be on
various trips or in seminar
courses next term should ba-

(Trey Thies)

lance the number of places that
would have been filled in Encar-
nation’s classes.

An ad hoc committee, which
reported to the Educational
Policy Committee (EPC) was
formed during winter term last
year to investigate registration

problems at Davidson. Mathe-

matics Professor Benjamin
Klein, the committee chairman,
said that although the course
squeeze last spring term arose
while the committee was con-
ducting its investigation, it was
not specifically the object of the
study.

However, Klein added, two of
the committee’s major recom-
mendations are especially im-
portant in analyzing the regis-
tration problems of each term.

(See Registration, page 11)

CCRL releases results:

approves coed house

By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor
At least one of the two new eating houses on Patterson Court will
be coed, the Council on Campus and Religious Life decided

Monday.
The two eating houses, which

.will utilize the present Richards

and Bailey houses, will open in
1981-82 when the Dining Com-
mons is completed.

Dean of Students. Will Terry

said the Council’s decision was -

prompted by the results of the
straw vote conducted last week.

Fifty percent of freshmen and
sixty-eight percent of upper-
classmen chose a coed house as
their personal preference over a
sorority, fraternity, all women’s
or all men’s eating house. A
similar majority —50% of fresh-
men and 57% of upperclass-
men— indicated they felt a coed
eating house would be best for
the atmosphere of Patterson
Court (see results below).

Last week the Council had
refused to release the results of
the straw vote because, Terry
had said, they did not want to
be ‘‘bound’”’ by them. Once
Council members had reviewed
the results on Monday, how-
ever, the consensus of student
opinion led to the decision on
the first house.

The status of the second
house is still undecided. ‘“May-
be we will conduct another poll
solely among the freshmen,”’
Terry said.

At this time Terry is unsure
whether the Council will decide

about the second house before >

March.

Housing ©
lottery |
rearranged

By SCOTT EBLIN

Staff Writer <
Sophomores who are living
off-campus or in dormitory
lounges will draw first for
housing assignments. in the
April lottery, according to
Housing Director Bill Bolding.
Juniors will draw second,
followed by freshmen and then
sophomores living in regular
dorm rooms. Any upperclass-
man can keep his present room

without entering the lottery.

According to Bolding, the
Council on Campus and Religi-
ous Life (CCRL) suggested
freshmen draw ahead of sopho-
mores to assure their getting

_on-campus housing. The CCRL

maintained that off-campus liv-
ing can be a shock after the
protective environment of fresh-
man year. Many of this
year’s sophomores were ‘“‘liter-
ally thrown off campus’’ after
freshman year, Bolding said.
Bolding does not anticipate a
housing crunch like last year’s
(See Lottery, page 11)

Faculty members seem unlikely to call for semester system

By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Last spring term the faculty voted to table a motion
proposing that Davidson switch to a semester system.
The motion is still on the table.

That faculty vote followed several open discussions
characterized by poor attendance and ‘‘massive
indifference,’’ according to Philosophy Professor Lance
Stell. ‘‘There are few people who feel very strongly one
way or the other,’ said Religion Professor David
Kaylor, who chaired a committee that studied the
semester calendar last year. The committee itself was
split on what to recommend.

Theoretically, the motion ‘‘could pass at any faculty
meeting,’’ Stell said. But right now ‘‘there isn’t
sufficient passion to get a change through.”

One who does feel strongly about a switch to
semesters is Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross.
Ross argues that the term system does not allow
enough time for thorough assimilation of material.
“The system we're on is like an extended summer
session,” she said. ‘‘...Summer courses always cover
much less material.”

Stell, however, pointed out that a ten week term

“never stretches out and drags on.”’ Also, History

Professor Malcolm Partin wondered about students’
willingness to take four courses at once instead of three.
Intensity is the most important reason to keep the

term system, according to Chemistry Professor
Nicholas Burnett. “It’s much better to concentrate on a
few courses from both the standpoint of students and
professors.’’ The report completed by Kaylor’s commit-
tee noted that intensity is valuable in areas such
language study.

Proponents of the semester system say its best
feature is the time it provides. Time for ‘‘percolation’’—
“time to let things sink in’’—‘‘time to relax,” Ross
said. Nineteen week long semesters allow students to
“get some relief’’ from the pressure of daily class
meetings and penalize sickness less. Stell regards the
lessened pressure of the semester system as a more
humane way to work with people.

Ross also fears that the term system “forces students
into hasty work.’’ Conversely, a longer session allows
students to do more'in-depth research for papers, read
more literature in English courses, have more time to
conceptualize new material in math courses, she said.

Burnett, however, said a switch would ‘‘cause
complications in any of the lab sciences.’’ If there were
one fewer term per year, the number of students using

lab facilities simultaneously would increase, forcing a

“major restructuring” of science curricula.. Burnett
guesséd that morning labs, evening labs, and Saturday
labs might be necessary to accomodate an influx of
students.

Kaylor feels a switch to semesters might make the
Humanities program ‘“‘so superficial” that it would be

eliminated. He added, however, that the material now
covered in six terms could be covered in four semesters
if a credit-hours system replaced the course units now
in use. A course like Humanities might meet five hours
weekly rather than the three hour standard for most
semester courses.

Ross feels the most attractive calendar is the 4-1-4
system, which includes a flexible one-month term in
January. Student options during the January term
might include experential programs, internships. and
independent studies, while professors would have time
to do research, write, and attend professional meetings.
Ross acknowledged, however, that a switch to
semesters would not necessarily entail adoption of a
4-1-4 system.

When asked about the likelihood of a switch, Ross
said, ‘‘I don’t have a clue.”

“IT could live with either,’’ Kaylor said. “As we
debate the pros and cons, they seem to even themselves
out.”

Stell doubts that the calendar will be changed except
as a part of a reform of the curriculum in general. “You
can’t separate the issues,’’ Stell said. Before many
professors vote on a calendar change they irisist on
knowing accompanying changes, such as sabbatical
procedures, course loads, and vacations.

“It’s not aclear cut issue,” Kaylor said. “Individuals
are as ambivalent in their own feelings as the faculty as
a whole is.”’ ;
