|
|

The Nee Ningy Band'!!
In The 900 Room

The Nee Ningy Band!! arrives in Davidson this weekend to
present their unique show which incorporates the traditional styles
of English, Irish, Scottish, Cajun, medieval, country blues and
‘‘a capella’ into an energetic synthesis of world folk music
presented amidst a very colorful stage setting.

The Nee Ningy.Band!! evolved after three musician friends, Ted Porter
Chris Turner and Rachael Maloney, went to celebrate Mardi Gras
in 1978 as street performers—strictly for fun. Their high-energy
presentation, eye-catching garb and obvious enjoyment made them
immediate attractions. The exclamation points after the name
denote its high energy.

Known for its audience involvement and its appeal to all ages,
the Nee Ningy Band!! has made appearances along the east
coast in a variety of colleges, clubs, restaurants and special
events. The Ningers are capable of shows with or without
amplification. To date, they have made three records on their
own label.

The three original members have each: traveled extensively through
Eastern and Western Europe; two of them have visited Africa. This
traveling has had a great influence in their music. Turner
expresses this influence as ‘trying to bridge ethnic barriers with
music, collecting musical instruments and ideas from different.
cultures."

Chris Turner taught himself to play the harmonica and was
successful. His improvisations and original compositions led to
the recording of a solo album, Harmonicas. Ted Porter favors
the mandolin for composing and performing, favoring its por-
tabitity and versatility. His music is published regularly in
Rundy’s Journal, a North Carolina arts/sports quarterly.

Rachel Maloney has been involved in a. variety of creative
arts: glassblowing, interriational cuisine, music, costumery, writing
and illustrating children’s books. Travel was her way to seek
out the grass roots of ethni¢ and culture arts. The folk fiddle
sparked her interest in music—Maloney is a native of the
Southern Appalachians, and the fiddle continues to be a prime

The Back Page

Andre Watts &
The Charlotte Symphony

Andre Watts, a piano virtuoso, joins Leo Driehuys and the Chaglotte
Symphony Orchestra on Wednesday, October 29 at 8:15 in Ovens
Auditorium.

The program will open with Night Music by George Rochberg, a
contemporary American composer, followed by the first and only
symphonic work of Georges Bizet, Symphon y ta C Major. Watts will
perform Brahms’ Concertu for Pianu No. 2 in B flat Major, a piece that
has no rival among concertos in technical difficulty.

Considered one of the most outstanding pianists today, Andre Watts
international fame began at age 16 with his appearance with
Leonard Bernstein and the New York Philharmonic Orchestra.’ Watts
has appeared 11 straight years in Lincoln Center's ‘‘Great Performances”’
series, made command performances for royalty, made television
broadcasts and solo appearances with orchestras all over the world.

For information and ticket reservations for Wednesday's per-
formance call the Charlotte Symphony Office at 332-6136.

Tickets are available at $9-$5.50 and $4. 50 for students.

At The Mint Museum

The show presently at the Mint Museum is ‘“Romare Bearden:
1970-1980" which opened October 12 and will run until January 4.
Bearden's creations are collages, very creative and original. Bearden
creates spontaneously; he borrows from both the cubist and the
surrealist styles of painting, using abrupt changes of scale and dreamlike
images. ‘‘Bearden uses simple shapes only hinting at forms therefore
allowing one’s imagination to fill in details.’ Located at 501 Hemp-
stead Place, the Mint Museum's gallery is open 10-5 from Tuesdays
through Fridays and 2-5 on Saturdays and Sundays.

