}~-nnimoabrradd s4'(---OeN) TL tsdoten)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Humes Is Hurting

It’s hard to ) quantify _ learning in monetary terms, but if

there is a program at Davidson worth spending a ifitie

extra money On to maintain its excellence, it is Humes.

Students and faculty have consistently praised Humes
since its Inception. But staffing problems threaten to
make that praise a little fainter.

The Humanities Program, in conjunction with Vice
President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmerman, is
looking for ways to accomadate all the freshmen who are
taking the. course ‘this fall. The department is-teaching
eight sections of .first-year Humes but only has six
professors lined up to continue teaching the course
winter term. Ms oe tt

This short-term problem points to some tong range
trends which may be endangering the quality of the
Humanities program:

—Many of the professors who began the program 18
years ago have retired or left. The College is using
untenured faculty members to replace the retirees. But
young professors are not in a good position to take on
such a time-consuming course. In addition to their
Humanities responsibilities, the professors must worry
about publishing articles in their field in order to succeed
in their tenure bids and to keep themselves marketable
should they choose to leave Davidson. Young professors
must also plan their new courses for the first time, also a
very time-consuming chore. Most institutions seeking
new faculty members give more weight to teaching and
publication in a professor’s specialty than to experience
in interdisciplinary courses such as Humes. Many
professors worry that the administration gives too much
weight to publication when evaluating faculty members
for tenure and contract renewal‘and simultaneously pays
little attention to a professor’s teaching performance in
Humanities.

First year Humes chairperson Daniel Rhodes told The
Davidsonian that the administration has not systemati-
cally solicited his opinion on the performance of his
Humes instructors; second-year chairman Sam Maloney
said the administration has regularly contacted him when
evaluating his charges. Because the administration
emphasis on Humes teaching performance in contract
decisians has been inconsistent professors tend to shy
away from teaching Humes.

—Course registration continues to be a problem for
many students, and with good reason. Several depart-
ments are short a professor or two, and enrollment seems
to be slowly rising. Increasing student demand for
Humanities doesn’t help the situation either, since
moving a professor from teaching a regular course with a
ceiling of 30 to a Humanities section of 18 people leaves
12 students out in'the cold. Several members rightly feel
that even a Humanities ceiling of 18 per section is too
high.

There seem to be only two possible solutions to the
short term Humes staffing problem: hire interim

- professors or attempt to. persuade present faculty
- members to drop a course in their department to teach a
section of Humes. The first option is by far the more
inviting, particularly since Dr. Zimmerman seems to think
the money would be available. Using present faculty
. members would simply aggravate registration. problems
and likely result ina disproportionately large workload for
_ @ professor.

The administration should probably: emp icy a. sl nae | 7
mai ee ditiner discussions,

; ‘strategy in‘ order to* avoid’
- fong term:' If the administra
" faculty to teach Humes, Humes professors could take
. Sabbaticals a little more often. thar those. who do not

teach Humes, allowing the Humes professors to publish .

“keeping up to date in their field. Course registration
“would. also. inprove since the newly hired prasensors
would teach other subjects as well.

The Humes faculty-might even be able to concentrate
on teaching instead of the. College’ 8 course registration

problems. ' —Mark Barrett

The Campus Forum

Hit And Run

To The Editor: rg
Davidson College is a place of
trust. The students act accord-
ing to a system of honor. This
system works because the stu-
dents pledge they will not
violate it, and if they observe
another student violating it
they will be obligated to report
him to the appropriate author-
ity. .
I write this to remind the

. student involved in an auto-

mobile accident that occurred
on campus this past weekend of
his/her obligation. The details
of the accident are hardly
needed, but I will state that
while backing out of a parking
space the aforementioned stu-
dent’s car hit the side of a black
Volkswagen Scirocco. To my
surprise the student who caused
the accident drove away with-
out writing a message to the
owner of the Scirocco.

For the Honor System to
work at Davidson this student
should turn himself in to Dean
of Students Will Terry, or else I
will be obligated to take further
action myself.

Name Withheld

_ Talk To Trustees

To the Editor:

As a result of the recent
Trustee visit on October 3rd,
misconceptions concerning the
student-Trustee relationship
were again unearthed. Many
students feel that while the
Trustees are intimately involv-
ed in decisions concerning the
College, they are aloof from or
insensitive to the real needs of
the campus. 7

This opinion is. erroneous.
The Trustees do believe student
input is of utmost importance
and they actively seek it: One-
on-one meetings with thé stud-
ents during Trustee weekends
are not only encouraged but

emphasized: as imperative in

srtiving at policy-making dect

sidhs.:' WY . Fuses

" Coriedrning pase \dtindent-
Dean Rusk, Trustee and former

‘U.S. Secretary of State, com

ments: _.

“Tam particularly pleased
that the after-dinner discus-
sions between students and”
Trustees seem to be productive.
In general, my experience has
been that when people get
together to try to find a

common basis of fact, many of
the first-look policy questions
become easily resolved.”

Student input is not only
stressed of Trustee weekends
but on a continuing basis
throughout the year. Dr. Fred
Stair, newly-elected Trustee
chairperson encourages stud-
ent-Trustee communications:

“You (the students) are
greatly to commended for...the
communication with the Trus-
tees...”

And Graeme Keith, Trustee
and Chairperson of the Develop-
ment Committee for the 1987

' Program, comments in a letter

to a student contact:

‘Your letter provided an
excellent overview of what is
happening at Davidson and I
sincerely appreciate your taking
the time to bring me up to date
on both a student and faculty
viewpoints on various matters. .
I am particularly interested in
your comments concerning
fundraising. . .and the future of
athletics at Davidson.”

The Trustees wish to know
our views, they care that our
voices are heard, and are willing
to act upon this input whenever
possible.

Many channels do exist to the
Trustees. The Trustee Contact
Committee, a campus-wide or-
ganization, was formed to pro-
vide direct, personal links with
the Trustees. Through this
committee our viewpoints are
heard and are seriously consid-
ered. If anyone is interested in
writing to a Trustee on a regular
basis, please feel free to get in
touch with me.

Sherburne Laughlin ‘83
Chairperson, SGA Trustee
Contact Committee

No Offense
To the Editor:
In an American court of law
one is assumed innocent until
proven guilty. Unfortunately,

- in the court of public opinion
- one is charged, tried, convicted,
/ and puniahed without the bene- a4
., fit of @ hearing. ei
‘ ; John: Siman’s letter (The fe
‘Davidsonian, Oct. 10) concern. | * ..
ing ATO’s treatment of. its... [
. Trustee guests presents ami:in-.-
complete account of what hap--

pened. Yes, the stereo was

playing DEVO when the Trus- -

tees entered; however, it was

’ not mentioned that the music

was turnéd down to a whisper

_ two minutes later.

Yes, napkins were thrown at

one of the Trustees and his wife.
Considering that they were
sitting at a corner table, facing
the corner, John’s ability to see
that “they were obviously of-
fended’’ by watching the backs
of their heads is rather com-
mendable. I was sitting at the
same table with a Trustee,
and didn’t see ‘‘offensive’’ in
either his or his wife’s face.
Furthermore, it was explained
to them that the napkins were
our traditional welcome, and
that we treated all guests
similarly.

Finally, as regards students
input with the Trustees, I agree
with Mr. Siman: students
should take advantage of their

(See Forum, page 10)

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. We
reserve the right to edit letters
for length and clarity. All
letters must be signed. Deadline
will ordinarily be the Monday
night of the week of publication.

Mail letters to The Davidson-
ian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036 or bring them by the
newspaper’s office on the third
floor of the College Union.

The Davidsonian is published
weekly in the academic year
(except during holidays and
examination periods) by the
students of Davidson College.
Mailing address: P.O. Box 218,
Davidson N.C. 28036. Tele-
phone: 892-2000, extension 148.
Subscription rate: $8.00 per
year. Advertising rates availa-
ble on request. Second class
postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Mark Barrett, Editor

Peter Hairston, Business Manager

