~ 8—The Davidsonian—January 25, 1980

orts Scripts

Swim Team

' The Davidson Swim Téim whipped VMI and Washington & Lee
73-40 and 68-38 respectively this-past weekend to run its record to
7-1. Both meets were, basieatty~ preparation for upcoming
competitions as the team didn’t break training and rest for VMI or
W & L. This Friday, im a big meet to be held at the UNCC pool,
Davidson faces the Citadel and Appalachian State. Then Saturday
they face Georgia Tech and Wake Forest at 11:00 a.m. These meets
are expected to be challenging and promise excitement.

— DANNY ARMISTEAD

Wrestling

The Wrestling Wildcats visited Charleston, S.C. this past Satur-
day for a tournament which included Duke, Georgia Tech, The
Citadel, and VMI, among others. Heavyweight Rob King led the
Cats with a second place finish in his division. Van Wagner and
Mike Garfinkel also added one victory apiece in their respective
weight classes. Coach Bob Estock commented, “‘It was a great
learning experience for us. The competition was the best we’ve
faced so far.” *

The next competition for Davidson will be a tournament this
Saturday, Jenpaty 26, at Washington and Lee in Lexington, Va.

— DAVE DONALDSON

~ Women’s Basketball

Last Thursday night, January 15, when the Wildcattes left to go
to Asheville to play Warren Wilson, Athletic Director Tom
Cartmill, jokingly promised that if the Davidson women’s team
won their next five games he would give everybody on the team a

“new basketball; ‘Unfortunately, he won’t have to keep his...

promise.

Davidson fast is the Belles of Bennett College by a score of 59-50
in Greensboro’ last Tuesday. They were not able to play a
consistent enough gpmes “which they monte: to play, to beat
Bennett. 30° ;

The Cattes. doniinated the’ first ten minutes of the game as their
full-court man-to-man defense completely disoriented the Belles.
However, as the. game progressed, the Cattes got tired and the
Belles gradually reduced the deficit to take the lead at halftime,
25-24.

In the second half, the two teams took turns taking the lead until
the last couple of minutes of the game when the Belles got when the
Belles got some easy baskets on fast breaks. Mike Frankhouser led
Davidson with 16 points. Anna Hutchinson and Kirby Owen had
10 points each; Mitzi Short and Laura Terry chipped in 4 apiece;
and Sarah Womack had 6 points.

The Wildcattes next game is tonight (Thursday) at 7:30 in
Johnston om with St. Andrews, another conference foe.

“emtiRy OWEN

is siting
worth the terror of

EE

ROBERT SHAW - J
THE DEEP” LOt

Friday, January 25 Love auditorium

$1.50 or season pass
8:00 & 10:30 pm

Wet “T’'Shirts admitted FREE

"Deliveries

Np “Barsing Soon at Peregrine House

my, Wide Screen TV Happy Hour

Weekly : Thur. & Fri. nites
Win-A- Keg Contest

8 pm until

$1.40 pitcher

