October 17, 1980—The Davidsonian—3

Kincaid bases campaign on economics background

By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Editor's Note: This article is the first of
two about ex-Davidson professors Ran-
dy Kincaid and Jim Martin, the two
candidates for North Carolina's. ninth
district Congressional seat, which en-
compasses Mecklenburg, Iredell, and
Lincoln counties. The Davidsonian in-
terviewed Kincaid Monday at his home.

An interview with Martin will appear in
next week's issue.

Democrat Randy Kincaid considers
economics to be the number one issue in
North Carolina’s ninth district Congres-
sional race.

Kincaid, a Davidson economics pro-
fessor on leave, also considers economics
to be his strong suit.

For instance, Kincaid breaks inflation
into four components:

—-Oil price inflation, largely caused by
OPEC price hikes. — -

~— Wage inflation, caused by workers’

wages increasing faster than their

productivity.

_—Monetary inflation, caused by the

Federal Reserve's expanding the money
supply.

—And excess demand, which occurs
when individuals, businesses, or govern-
ment spend excessively on a particular
product.

“Now one of the things economists
know is that for every separate problem
you have in the microeconomic arena
you've got to have a separate atta
Kincaid said. ‘‘We’ve just got some
gaping holes in our ability to attack
problems, and that’s why we have
inflation and unemployment simultane-
ously. We just don’t have enough tools
to do the job.”

Kincaid thinks government’s long run
attack on inflation and unemployment
has to involve ‘‘finding new tools.’’

For example, Kincaid advocates put-
ting the government on a four year
budget. He‘feels the one year budget
‘leads to government by whim. It leads
to the Congress saying ‘We don’t have to
be particularly responsible because we
can always take another crack at a

. program next year.”

According to Kincaid, the four year
budget would allow the government to
balance the budget over the business
cycle. Also, it would force Congress to
make clear priority choices since any
program they set in motion would
continue for four years. ‘‘It would give
us a much better management ap-
proach,”’ he said.

At the end of each fiscal year, various
government agencies rush to spend all
that’s left of their budgets. Kincaid said
a four year budget would prevent the

rush to spend three years out of four. cates conservation and development of |

The four year budget has some’

support in Congress, but ‘‘It needs a
champion,” Kincaid said. He added that

budgetary reform is the sort of issue he -

would be willing to dedicate himself to
for years as a Congressman.

Kincaid thinks the. government must
adopt innovative policies—like four year
budgeting—to make real changes in its
approach to economic problems. Any
debate about most federal spending,
Kincaid said, is “Quibbling around. the
fringes: of the budget.’’

appropriated to ‘areas— defense, ,, social

security, health, and interest on the -

federal debt —from which few. people
want to cut spending substantially . -
Kincaid denounces what he calls

‘‘panaceas”’ for economic problems,-such - ,

as the Kemp-Roth bill; Across the board -
tax cuts -are-inequitable,: according. to
Kincaid, because they benefit the rich far, -

More than the poor. An executive,whois _~
~ in the 40 percent tax bracket “would

several times the tax savings as a, worker

_.in the 15 percent bracket, Kincaid said. .

A tax cut would also be highly
inflationary, Kincaid said, ‘‘because it
dumps a whole lot of money into people’s
pockets.”’

Kincaid accuses Republican incum-
bent Jim Martin of accepting simplistic,
“doctrinaire’’ solutions to complex eco-
nomic problems. The Kemp-Roth Bill,
for example.

Kincaid’s explanation of how he would
have approached voting on loan guaran-
tees for Chrysler is one example of his
approach to policymaking.

Kincaid said he would weigh the
following questions in deciding whether
or ot to grant a government loan to a
failing corporation.

—How much unemployment the fai-
lure of the corporation would cause.

—How much of an impact this
unemployment would have on the go-
vernment, especially in terms of in-
creased unemployment compensation
outlays and lost tax revenues.

— How creditors of the failing corpor-
ation would be affected if it declared
bankruptcy.

Kincaid emphasized he would vote for
_ loan guarantees ‘‘case by case by case.

Precedents don’t matter.”’

Though Kincaid explained how he
would have made his decision, he said he
didn’t know how he would have voted on
the Chrysler loan guarantees.

On Energy

Kincaid feels an effective energy |
policy is crucial in halting oil- “price
inflation. To do so the United ‘States
must strive to create a glut of oil among ‘
OPEC nations, Kincaid said. He advo-

Absentee Ballot Registration

Election Day (Nov. 4) is fast ap-
proaching, and so is the deadline for
absentee ballots. Since it is difficult for a
college student to register in this
country, the easiest way to vote is with
an absentee ballot from your home
county. In order to obtain an absentee
ballot, you must be aware of the
following:

1) Usually you are eligible for an

absentee ballot only if you have regis-
tered to vote.

2) For most states, you must first
send a request form for an absentee
ballot to your home county board of
elections. (For some states, however,. a
phone call to the board of elections is all
that is needed.) A request form for an
absentee ballot can be obtained through
Bobby Ervin (-6065) or Barry Mack
(-6389) of the Young Democrats.

3) The absentee ballot applications
should be returned to your county board
of elections (which is usually located in

the county seat). The deadlines, for
receiving absentee ballot applications
are as follows for these several states:
Georgia: 5 days before election, day .-
Florida: 5:00 p.m. of the day. before.
election day.
Tennessee: 7 days before election day.

day.
North Carolina: 21 business days
before election day.

If your home is in another state,of you
have any questions, the Federal Election
Commission has set up a toll-free
number, 1-800- 424-9530, for informa-
tion.

4) Upon receiving the absentee ballot
you should fill it out and have it
notarized. °

5) Your absentee ballot is due at your
home county board of elections by Nov.
3.

—Courtesy PIRG and Young Democrats

Kincajd, POR s+
plained that 70 percent of the budget i is... 3

d. get 24

South Carolina: 3 days before election

avenerys Cer tea)

Virginia: 5 days before election, dayi. © ‘,

Kincaid
alternative energy. sources.

For the short term Kincaid believes
the nation is ‘‘stuck with nuclear power
and stuck with shales” as the altern-
atives to oil. In the long run, Kincaid is
enthusiastic about renewable resources,
especially methane gas.

Methane, according to Kincaid, can be
produced organically — from seaweed, for
example—and converted into pipeline
quality natural gas. The process can be
done at sewage treatment plants, for the
technology involved is relatively simple.

Kincaid also pointed out two solar
ponds on the roofs of his house to
demonstrate another source of renewable
energy.

On Defense

‘We learned in the ’60’s we can’t solve
social problems by throwing money at
them. The same thing applies to
defense.’’ Kincaid said Martin is ‘‘throw-
ing money at defense.’’

Kincaid believes the proposed B-1
bomber and MX missile system are 8

“colossal waste of money.’

Cruise missiles, he said, are a cheaper,
more ‘effective alternative to the B-1: »
Also, éxpansion of marine launched ©
missiles systems makes more sense than
development of the MX. .

Several American defense policy goals
are overriding, Kincaid said. He thinks
European nations should bear more of
the burden of defending Europe. He also
favors rearming Japan.

On Martin
Kincaid thinks Martin is ducking

debate: .

“It’s good strategy on his:part not. to

give me any more-publicity than he has

to,’’ Kincaid said...

‘And he doesn’t want to have t to.

defend -his: position on the economy ,”
Kincaid added. ‘‘He’s not an economist;
he’s,. not, very: :good .at:;economics.’’

Kineaid says since economics: is-'the :
most important ‘issue in the campaign, it:
is the logical topic of a debate. ‘‘He '
knows in his gut that he just isn’t going
to come out too well in that kind of a
debate,’’ Kincaid said.

Kincaid and Martin do have three
joint appearances scheduled: one at a
Charlotte Chamber of Commerce lun-
cheon, one at the Charlotte Latin School,
a small prep school, and one at WTVI, a

- Charlotte public televison station. Kin-

caid, however, feels these events are not

(David McCurry)

really debates, for they lack large
audiences and don’t give the candidates
a chance for rebuttal.

Martin has turned down invitations to
debates from The Charlotte Observer
and The Davidsonian. He and campaign:
aides maintain that his schedule is full.

Kincaid describes Martin as a ‘‘predic-
table voice for big business,’’ especially
the chemical, oil, and medical industries.

However, he admitted the charge was
‘difficult to document.”’

Kincaid said a ‘‘classic example”’ of
Martin’s support of big business is his
voting on Superfund.

To finance disposal of hazardous
chemical wastes, the government pro-
posed Superfund, which would jointly be
funded by the chemical industry and the
public. Originally, the chemical industry
and public were to have paid in equally
to the fund. However, when the House
committee changed the ratio to 25
percent public funding and 75 percent
industry funding, it did so against
Martin’s staunch opposition, according
to Kincaid:

But after Superfund was ‘approved in
committee and went before the whole
House, Martin voted for it. ‘‘He had it
both ways,”’ Kincaid Said.

Similarly, Kincaid said that Martin
voted for the Windfall Profits Tax on
the floor but ‘‘busted his gut to gut the

‘thing in committee.’

____Piedmont___

‘(Continued from page 1)

, second. ‘time, the bank will revoke the

card. «

Loan Officer Mike Mittelman empha-
sized that the bank has discussed the
new guidelines with its student advisory
board and that‘the change was ‘‘not an
arbttrary ‘decision by thé bunk.”

Both Howie and Mittelman think
Piedmont’s Master-Charge program
with Davidson students is unique. They
know of no other bank that makes credit
so readily available to college students.

Howie sees the MasterCharge pro-
gram as a special service to students, ‘If
they handle it (their credit) correctly,
they can refer to their MasterCharge
account through Piedmont Bank when
attempting to obtain future credit.
