Davidson Lacks Commitments To Its:

May 9, 1980—The

Pam Camerra

Editor's Note: Pam Camerra is a
member of the Class of '80 and former
editor of The Davidsonian.

I feel cheated.

The College’s Statement of Purpose
says ‘“Davidson’s ‘primary purpose is to
develop persons of humane instincts, of
disciplined and creative minds und of
Christian character for full lives of
leadership, of service and of self-fulfill-
ment.”

The disillusioning events of the past
four years prove to me the College is not
committed to its stated purpose.

Linden and Christian Tenure

Not many students remember Ron
Linden. I was reminded of him during
Spring Convocation. Four years ago
approximately 300 students and 20
faculty members boycotted Spring Con-
vocation to protest Davidson’s Christian
Tenure policy and the implications of
that policy for Ron Linden. Linden was a
Jewish political Science professor. His
job offer at Davidson was rescinded
because he told President Samuel Spen-

cer he found Davidson’s Christian tenure _

‘Pillicy to be “morally repugnant, social-
ly*anachronistic and scholastically
unwise.”

Before 1974, all non-Christians were
excluded from tenure at Davidson. In
1974, the Trustees voted to grant tenure
in special circumstances to a person who
respected the Christian tradition even if
he or she was not committed to all its
tenets. But the Administration con-
tinued to exclude candidates for teaching
posts because of their religious affilia-
tion.

In 1977 Ron Linden applied for a
political science position at Davidson.
He had been interviewed personally by
President Spencer. In the letter offering
Linden a teaching position, Spencer
wrote that Linden should not accept the
job unless ‘‘you genuinely want to join
such a (Christian) community and, as
the by-laws state, care to consciously
uphold and seek to increase the College’s
effectiveness as a church-related col-
lege.”

Linden did not wish to relinquish the
' freedom to oppose policies he thought
were improper and discriminatory. He
wrote Spencer that he would accept the
job but he made it clear that he opposed
the College’s hiring and tenure policies
and would work to change them. Spencer
answered that this response did not
constitute an acceptance according to
the conditions of the offer. Spencer then
withdrew the job offer. A week later the
story appeared in dozens of national
newspapers.

Although the Trustees subsequently
amended the by-laws, they still require a
commitment to work in harmony with
the Christian spirit of the College and a
willingness to support Davidson’s mis-
sion as a church-related college. A
religious examination is still a part of the
faculty evaluation and hiring process.
And the College still has no tenured
non-Christian faculty members.

I am not opposed to the Christian
spirit of the College but I think such
policies are themselves threatening to
Christian spirit and to academic free-
dom. If the College is unwilling to accept
a challenge to its faith, its faith cannot
‘be very strong. By excluding those of
other faiths, the College practices in-
tolerance and undercuts the basic tenets
of Christian love and understanding.

-From an academic standpoint, the
policy is an embarassment to the entire
community. It diminishes the pool of
distinguished scholars from which the

college can draw. The policy may
prevent the College from securing the
best qualified non-Christian scholar and
also the best qualified Christian scholar.
For a true Christian may not be willing
to conform to the arbitrary and discrim-
inatory practices of the College.

Only through debate and differing
perspective can we come to an under-
standing of the truth. Davidson College
ought to be a place where varying
opinions are expressed, where views are

questioned and challenged. But we
cannot have open discussion if we put
restriction upon faculty and student
beliefs and convictions. The College is
institutionally close-minded,

Sex Discrimination

Not only does the College exclude
people of differing religions, but it also
arbitrarily excludes people of different
sexes. The College’s admissions policies
explicitly discriminate against women.
The Trustees and President Spencer
have defended the two-to-one ratio of
men to women on the grounds that
female graduates traditionally contri-
bute less to their alma mater than male
graduates and on the grounds of
tradition.

This policy raises several serious
questions. First, should the criteria for
admission be based on a candidate’s
future giving? College contributions may
well be so low now (only 27% of
Davidson’s alumni donate money to the
school) because of this anachronistic and
discriminatory policy. Davidson women
continue to achieve success in graduate
schools and in the job market and may
soon be in a position to give to the

* College.) Women alumnae have stated

they will not contribute to a college that
discriminates against them.

Second, Davidson’s traditional policy |

contributes to the inequality women face
in our society..By denying women equal
access, we promote discriminatory prac-
tices in the job. market. If women cannot
gain admittance to competitive institu-
tions like Davidson, they will have lower

paying jobs. No wonder, then that their

contributions to Colleges are lower.

Most important, by denying well-quali-

fied women equal access to Davidson, we —

are threatening the academic excellence

CAPSULE, SON. WE PUT
LETTERS IN HERE S° THAT
GENERATIONS FROM NOW,
WHEN THEY’RE DELIVERED,

of the school and of the broader

community. We are preventing women.

from being leaders in their community
and from finding self-fulfillment—two
important tenets of the proposed goals of

Student Input Ignored

How can students become leaders

_ when the Trustees and

wrests from them the management

IT’S CALLED A TiME

PEOPLE CAN SEE WHAT
WE WERE LIKE.

College Press Service

a

responsibilities for a student radio
station as it did in the fall of 1978? How
can students be allowed to develop
creative minds and independent thinking
when they are not allowed to participate
in the decision-making process; when
they are told about plans after decisions
are already made?

Learning involves participation. It
means making some mistakes like
mispronounced words or playing more
Frank Zappa than is advisable. It also
requires participation in the decision-
making process. Davidson College has
not upheld this ideal in educating its
students.

It is a cruel joke to give students the
impression that they are responsible for
running an activity and then taking
away all control from them. WDAV
began as a carrier current station in
1969. In 1970 it became a student
operated FM station providing the
College community with a wide variety
of alternative music, All along, Presi-
dent Spencer maintained that WDAV
was a legitimate student activity. Yet
when the Trustees convened in Spring
1978 to authorize the station’s move to a
high power 18,500 watt station, the

student manager was told his presence
at the meeting would be ‘‘inappro-

.priate.”” After the meeting the Admini-

stration said no radical changes would be
made in programming after the switch to

In July 1978, the station manager was
told that President Spencer had asked

classical station. The students had never
been consulted. 4 > ‘ 5
gave control of the station to Pre

Spencer and the entire staff of WDAV |

quit, feeling disgusted and betrayed. For
two years they had tried to discuss the

tion. For two years they had be

cording to Program Director Chris
Wright, 100,000 watt WFAE-FM, oper-
ated by UNC-Charlotte, will be broad-

station really needed in the Charlotte
area? Fs

The College has skewed priorities. It
spends money for a classical radio
station the community does not need. It
has a large athletic budget and building
program but cannot pay professors
enough to live on. What good are new
buildings and a great athletic program if
you can’t keep the professors to teach in
them? r)

Infamous Personnel Decisions

Personnel decisions have been carried
out with the same lack of compassion .
and community participation that char-
acterized the WDAV incident. The
Administration did not inform Drs.
Tonia Devon, N an Koller or Joe
Retzer that it waé dissatisfied with their
performance. Both Devon and Koller
said they had'received substantial raises
the year before their dismissal. The
Retzers had just been given a College
loan to build:a new house. Two months
after the house was completed, Retzer
was denied tenure. No effort was made
on the part of the Administration to hel
the professors improve their teaching.
Nothing was said until the final judg-
ment was passed. — as

These professors had made an extra-
ordinary, energetic commitment to the
College and to their students. They had
sacrificed their marketability because of
their belief in the College’s Statement of
Purpose which said ‘‘Davidson has.
chosen to be a college, to maintain itself
as a small communtiy of learners, to
emphasize the teaching relationships
between students and teachers.’’ They
were to be sadly disillusioned.

Before the fall of 1978 Davidson had
no careful and complete procedure by
which to evaluate the competence of its
faculty. Professors were given no perio-
dic evaluations of their performance.
Decisions concerning tenure and renewal
were made by the Administration and
the criteria could change from decision to
decision. Secrecy and irregularity sur-
rounded the evaluation process creating
an ait of suspicion between faculty and
administration during the past three

The Administration had promised

von was dismissed in D~cember, 1977.

_The Administration claimed to have
the trustees to authorize a primarily ~ recommenda:

placed weight on the

under

