THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

There Is No Excuse

No, it isn’t true that the campus bonfire during the
blackout devoured an automobile and two cute baby
turtiés.

But it is true that some students’ conduct in front of
Sentelle dormitory Tuesday night was inexcusable.
Period.

Davidson students verbally and physically harassed
Davidson volunteer firemen who were merely trying to do
their duty. Admittedly the firemen could have been calmer
also. But when you consider that students were chanting
obscenities at the firemen the first time they came, as
well as dousing the firemen with beer and water, it is not
hard to understand why the firemen overreacted the
second time they were called. The firemen were scared,
unfortunately with good reason.

The firemen should have had no reason to expect a
confrontation in the first place. Had students been less.
hostile during the firemen’s first visit, the second might
not have been so eventful. _

‘Both the students and the firemen have something to
be ashamed of. Yet the College community seems
determined to play down the incident, concentrating on:
the media’s coverage of the event rather than the event
itself. No matter how misguided.media coverage was, the
indisputable fact is that students acted irresponsibly.

SGA Président John Jackson’s forthcoming letter of
apology to the Davidson fire department is a step in the
right direction. We hope students, administrators, and

tiremen will realize and admit there really was a serious |

problem Tuesday night, instead of directing attention
elsewhere.

We are sorry it all happened. —Mark Barrett

Never Wrong

Davidson College was hauled into court Monday simply
Gecause It refused: to admit it was wrong.

The College basically granted the year-old demands of
three physical plant employees Bill Rolland, Ruben
Mcintosh, and David Alexander, in a court-ordered

‘settlement. The three had merely circulated a petition
questioning certain college employment policies. The
College considered the petition such a threat to its
authority that it reprimanded the employees and moved
them to less desirable jobs.

Yet we understand the College has been trying to settle
the case out of court:on the same terms as were
eventually reached in court since the suit was filed last
summer. The major demand the College was unwilling to
grant was to admit It was in the wrong, although the
evidence weighs heavily in the employees’ favor. And the
College still refuses to admit it.

The employees, feeling their reputations impugned,
pressed for this admission, and in a certain sense got it.
The. College gave up aimost everything in the court
settlement that it would have if the case had come to trial,
except admitting it was wrong. Had the College been
willing to acknowledge its mistake earlier, all the expense
and embarassment of the court settlement could have
been avoided.

And to top it all off, a College attorney cited
“Davidson's tradition” of treating its employees fairly, in
Davidson's defense.

This tradition includes the hotly cantested yet
unexptained dismissal of South Asian Studies Professor

Tonia Devon in 1978. in spring 1979, widely admired

professors Norman Kolier and Joseph Retzer were
‘unfortunately denied tenure and refused a re-evaluation of
the decision.

And although some relief appears to be in sight, faculty
morale has been dropping steadily because of tow
salaries and a disbelief that the administration was
concemed about the probjem.

We can only assume that these Incidents, in which the
College acted with secrecy and thoughtiessness, are part
of the tradition.

Some tradition. —Mark Barrett

ADVISERS, WHAT GIES?’ BE NICE
a a Pa
wo)
ONS PROGRAMS, YOU SAI

—
—————— SaaS

D-30

The Campus Forum

Computers

To the Editor:
I-read with some interest Mr.

 Phillip’s commentary “Compu-

ters need Reevaluating” (The
Davidsonian, February 1,
1980). It is difficult to deny that:
familiarity with computers, as
well as with other forms of
technology, aid in under-
standing of modern society. My
experiences with computers,
however, have caused me to
question the role of the liberal
arts college in breeding compu:
ter familiarity.

At ancther liberal arts college
during its summer term, I was
able to take a computer pro-

.gramming course as part of a

normal -course load. The pro-
gramming course exposed me to
some of the best educational
computing facilities in the coun-
try. I enjoyed this course but it
was a course in political philoso-
phy iso taken that term that I
valhe most.

It seems‘to me that a liberal
arts college should emphasize
the liberal arts more than tools.
Computers used as sophisti-
cated card catalogs, fancy type-
writers, and electronic black-
boards are neat but trivial.
Davidson is a liberal arts college
and not a vocational school. A

reevaluation of computers at .

Davideon needs to keep priori-

‘Andrew Umhas’81
Broken Glass

To the Editeur:

I am taking this opportunity
to bring to the attention of the
Davidson College community
on act of dangerous neglect for
human safety that was done on
Wednesday of thie week. Soon
after an entire fraternity had sat
down to lunch, two snowballs
crashed through two of the very
large plate glaze windows in the
dining room. By the grace of
God, only a few minor cuts, one
close to an eye, were the result.
The potential was dofinitely
there for more than one person
to have been seriously injured if
not blinded by flying glass, all
in the name of “‘harmless fun.”
This intentional act was done

by a person with no obvious |

in question will not be prose-
cuted under an ineffective Code
of Responsibility if no one
volunteers their names. Even if
names were disclosed, how
could one properly assess repar-
ation for endangering the health
and safety of over 70 persons?
As a worried student, I am
frightened as to the precedent
an act of this callous nature
could set. Severe discipline is in
order for the guilty persons if
caught. If they are not pu-
nished, our Code of Responsi-
bility is just a worthless piece of
paper.
James W. Altizer '81

Sloppy Work

to the Editor:

Tim Dwight, Opinions Editor
of the Davidsonian, wrote a
meandering article on the Viet-
nam War Feb. 1...1 think. He

the individual, and Carter's.

Political speeches.

Dwight’s journalism is slop-
py. His writing contains co-
pious quantities of superfiuity..
In other words, he overworks
his typewriter.

Run on sentences, half fin-
ished thoughts and unexpected
shifts in tepic create unneces-

An article won't be read if it is

difficalt to decipher.

I could live with “Dwight’s
writing if he had not over
stepped his bounds within the
article itself. I don’t believe the
Davideonian Opinions Editor is
qualified to catagorically state
that, and I quote, “If we fight a

war in South West Asia, we will.
: again show that ‘the intereate of ;

our country’ means preserving
American control over events in
countries on the other side of
the globe, however misguided
and unwanted that. control may
be. Preserving control is not
only an. impossible delusion of a

’ carefully. I could find no quotes

from authorities versed in A)
the economic needs of the
United States. B) the political
and military means by which
the United States retains ‘‘con-
trol’”’ of South West Asia. C) the
historical documentation of the
United States past attempts to
control other countries.

esearch in these areas would
have yielded a very interesting
article, uncluttered with ex-
traneous information.

Dwight overreaches himself
repeatedly in the article. No
where is this more evident in his
call for restraint and remem-
brance of the lessons of Viet-
nam. He fails to warn the reader
that there can be too much of a

thing.
In his behalf, I submit the
following argument for a limit

Continued on page 6

OSSCSOOOHEOCEOE

‘The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. All
letters must ‘be signed

Mail letters to The Davidson-
ian, Box 218, Davidson,- N.C.
28036 or bring them by the
newspaper's office.
