2—The Davidsonian— December 12,1980

(Continued from page 1)
perience in order w be an effective
Editor. You -have to know where to go
for information--the channels—and you
have to. understand what the major
issues have been, and to have grappled
with them earlier. These (skills) are
acquired through weeks and weeks of
working with the issues, the people.

Siman In high school I was editor of
the yearbook. I started with The
Davidsonian during the spring of my
freshman year. I was assistant news
editor my sophomore year and became
News Editor with Elizabeth in January.
I think Davidsonian experience is crucial
to the Editorship, and the
you get as New Editor is about the best.
There are really three things the Editor
has to do: write the editorial every week,
edit everything, and manage the forty of
fifty people that work on The Davidson-
jan at any given time. That’s exactly
what we do as News Editors: we write,
we edit, and we manage our own staff of
about twenty people. This is the sort of
experience the Editor needs.

What should be the role of a campus
newpaper? How would you describe our
current Editor’s

Kiss John and I agree that The
Davidsonian is one of the most essential
parts of the campus, and it has basically
a two-fold role: it has to be a record of
events which must be as objective, as
accurate, as possible; this is important
to build the community. Its second role
is to identify issues, to interpret both
events and the basic state of the College
from a student perspective

Siman In adition to being an accurate
record of events, the paper is something
which should be used to present a picture
of the College so that students can see
what’s good and bad for it, and in the
long run we can make the College better.
For instance, last week we talked about’
the Academe report which showed that
Davidson assistant professors are paid
extremely low; we run stories like that to
show this is a possible weakness of the
College. We want people to think about
this and possibly solve the problem...

We both think it -the job Mark
Barrett has done is excellent.

Kiss I think Mark had a real uphill
battle, there were a lot of areas that
needed to be strengthened in the paper,
and he’s done a very. good job. I’m sure
there’s a lot of things left to do.

Siman I was talking to [Religion
Professor}-Dr:' Polley ‘today and asked
him about what he thought of Mark and: .
he said Mark’s been the best. Editor’
we've had in the past several years. I
think that’s true; Mark’s been the best
Editor we've had in the past several
years. I think.that’s true; Mark’s been
controversial, but he’s brought the paper
along. And I think the Editor should be |
controversial.

.. ‘Purcell [The Davidsonian] should be a
positive force. Once of the best ways The
Davidsonian can effect. change is
through positive means. A lot of times
it’s easy to: point out. what’s been.weak
with thinga.and not always present a
solution or alternative.’

Soracco A positive role, but that’s not
to say that-you don't take a critical

eee ran eaten hots etd

ts
Uy
is

evry ong

Purcell. You may have to go out and
seek those things. You may have to sit
on Sam Spencer’s doorstep and tell
him that we're attacking his position on
faculty salaries and we'd like him to have
a chance to say something about it. We
need to solicit the opinion fromthe other
side. This is one of the positive
approaches to take.

Siman Bill has a good point there: we
have to make an effort to recruit various
sides of the issues. Bill said one thing
that really bothered me though, and that
is that we need to be more positive. He

Davidsonian

areas of content, we’d like to have more

photographs, ones that relate directly to

the stories. As far as mechanics go, we'd
like to tighten the ship, to look out
Siman As far as The Wavidsonian
goes, we can be downright meticulous,
and we're both extremely organized. I
think that would show in the paper.
Kiss We also have some other ideas,
such as having specific staff writers in
charge 6f certain areas of campus life so
we can develop knowledgeable writers in
specialized areas. Also,. people should

The team of Jean Soracco and Bill Purcell (top) are vying with John Siman and

Elizabeth Kiss for the Davidsonian Editorship.

seems to be very concerned about the
paper’s image. I think we should be

positive when we're talking about good .

stuff, and negative when we're talking
about things we think are bad. The
overall tone should reflect what we feel
about what’s going on, and it shouldn’t
necessarily be positive unless everything
is good. If you want to read positive
things about Davidson, read the Up-

‘date. Certainly we will be positive when
things are good, just as we'll be negative

when we think things are bad. The only

image I want to project is that we're fair .

and accurate.

What changes, if any, do you propose

for the paper, including internal organi-
zation as well as its more general
direction?

Kiss Our changes would fall under
two categories. The first is content; the

second .is mechanical. Under content, we .

would like to have more coverage. of
student activities, such as: ROTC,

_ debate team, college bowl, etc. We feel

the paper has,not given them the
- Coverage they. deserve. Tn. other sioeda,
;. expanded. £

_ theres room , for. isapedvenniink in: the:
sporte section; women’s. Sports.and .
~ minor, sports haven't gotten as much |
- Coverage as they. should. ‘Women’s ;
- IMAC doesn't get. any coverage.at .
* all—we'd. certainly. either. start, a new
. women’s IMAC column or inc¢ ‘it

into the present IMAC column. In other

(David McCurry)

feel free to come to us if they have any
legitimate area which they think merits

coverage. :
Soracco We s definitely agree with that.

I think the production of the paper can
be a little more organized. Typing can be

more organized, and more things sped |
up. In actual layout, we think some

columns can have a regular place i in the
paper that readers can go to every week.
We'd like to have a review column,

‘maybe on the Opinions page, always.

there. Same way with the IMAC

column—it would be on the same page

every week.

- Parcell I think there have been some
basic layout mistakes. Sometimes the
front page is too vertical; one of the big
trends is that The Wall Street Journal is

horizontal]. We share the same concerns”

about photography; there’s some place

foy more pictures. in there and. more |
cent captions
e really want people to feel like the

paper is their's, and encourage a lot more
active participation. There’s some re-

_ sources sitting in Chambers that need to
‘be..tapped. You want to make people
-want to read that. newspaper, and. that
means more emphasis on features. One.
e bit. There may be .

‘a need for the IMAC column one ‘let's :

thing. for, sure, the «
‘to be shaken upa

have fun,” column and then another
which ies property reports IMAC. —
a change in Editorship, each

paper usually experiences quite a large
turnover. How do you plan to recruit a
new staff, and what amounts of training

do you plan to undertake with them?

Purcell We're going to get out and
hustle. We’ve got a list of names of
people who are presently on the staff,
people who have done things in the past,
and people who have done stuff in high
school. We’re going to do some things to
train people. A journalism teacher at
home has come up with a seminar-type
format that we’re going to hopefully be
able to run in the first few months for
people who don’t have the experience.

Siman Training has been one of the
biggest parts of our job. We go out and
get writers for the first time and we work
with them; if anyone trains Davidsonian
writers, it’s the two of us.

Kiss At the beginning of this year,
John and I put together an eight page
guideline for writing news which covered
all basic journalistic techniques and
ethics, the way you handle a story from
the time it is assigned to its completion
including interviewing tips, our policy
on abbreviation, titles, etc. which we
distributed to all news staff writers.

Siman Of the twenty writers we have
on the news staff, ten of them wrote for
the first time this fall, so we’re
constantly training people...

As far as recruiting goes, we’re in
really good shape; the only position that
will be vacated will be the news
editorship. The majority of the staff has
expressed their support for us.

Kiss We have people in training
positions now who we feel can move up.
We have lists of people who expressed
interest earlier this year in working for
the newspaper, and we will continue to
contact them.

What campus issues will be especially
important to you and toward what
stance on them will you orient your
paper?

Kiss Some of the major issues we're
interested in are the ones we've been
covering as News Editors: athletics,
college finances, college development,
changes in educational and philosophical
directions.

Siman It has been under our editor-
ship that issues such as faculty salaries

’ were first raised.

Kiss We feel like the morale of the
faculty, which is directly dependent on
their financial situation, will seriously
affect the quality of education here.

Siman We're really concerned with

-- development and fund-raising. Only
- 30% of Davidson alumni give, compared

to 60-70% at some of the Little Ivies.
We want to make Davidson students
aware of this problem, we want to talk
about and advocate alumni giving to the
College as well as an expanded and
well-run development program.

Kiss One of the most important issues
at this point is possible changes in
curriculum and educational philosophy
which could change the face of David-
son. We feel people’ who are students
here now should have input" in such
changes for the future. I think we're
both very supportive of efforts to widen -
the curriculum, to bring in non-Western
studies, to encourage foreign study, but
also we feel that rigid requirements are
not what's needed here, or at least they
should not be just shuttled in.

Siman Another concern of ours is
athletics. We strongly support our
committment to minor sports. I think
the.athletic future of the College lies in
minor sports and. ‘women’s. sports, and
we want. to see. Davidson adhere more

closely to Title IX. -

We definitely want to look hard at our.

- committment to football and basketball.

Davidson is really taking a. big mouth-

full, with a 1300-member student body,

when we play Division I in all sports
(See Davidsonian, page 11).
