Davidson Lacks Academic Reputation Up N «

Rick Johnston”

. Why isn’t the academic excellence of. ‘

Davidson familiar to those outside the

_ South? There are many people inthe ~
-Morthern ‘and western part of the U.S. -

“who have heard of Davidson, but moat: “

‘associate the college with basketball

‘and other sports.

‘Where I live {Conniecticut) a chieriahéa: es
“few know-of ‘Davidson's academic repu- ~ -
- tation. These people have either known a -
Davidson student, have heard of . the:
‘ College Bowl, or have previously lived in M

the South.

In North Carolina and surrounding ~~

states, the reverse is true. Academics far
outshines athletics. Athletic programs
at the University of North Carolina,
Duke, Wake Forest and N.C. State cast
a large shadow over Davidson athletics.
Even in the Charlotte area, UNCC and
J.C. Smith seem-to push Davidson off
the front page in the sport’s section of
the Observer.

Why does athletic reputation super-

cede academic reputation outside the
South while the reverse is true inside the
South? One answer can be seen in the
composition of our student body.. I
surveyed athletes and: scholars to find
out where they came from, and found
some interesting results.

I looked at five of the most established’
sports programs at Davidson: football,
basketball, baseball, tennis, and swim-
ming. With that I compared two of the
best known scholarship programs: the
Edward Crosland Stuart and the Charles
A. Dana programs. Each group is
divided into area students (those who
come from North Carolina and surroun-
ding states: South Carolina, Virginia,

Georgia, and Tennessee) and non-area _

students. Area Non-area
Group Students Students
Entire College 62‘ 38%
Basketball 14 86%
Baseball* 43'« 57%
Swimming* 58'« 42%
Tennis 42". 58%
Football 44°. 56%
Stuart scholars 15. 25 %
1979 Stuart finalists 88°. 12%
Dana scholars*_ - 70°. 30%

*Freshmen not included.

These statistics show that the scholars
are generally from within our area while
the athletes are not. This may help to
answer my previous question. I think
students are a major factor in making
Davidson's reputation. If a star athlete
comes to Davidson, our athletic reputa-
tion is enhanced in that athlete’s home
town. On the other hand, if an outstan-
ding student comes here, Davidson's
ugademic reputation benefits in his

region, especially if the student chooses °
reat csied anager amen eaatae wa

law, medicine, ete... ~ <<).

areas to apply: here? “The application

. deadline for the Stuart Scholarships
‘comes too early in a student's senior year
.-of high s¢hool (October) for most

- prospectives outside of the North Caro-

lina area to have even heard of Davidson

’ College, much less of ‘the scholarships.
Coe ee

pina be
BRING Your |
OWN cuP!

“Zt's 4 CAT!”

“1's a DOG!”

ding students trom the North and West _ Charlotta and Atlanta,”

"I +'s the Easter ae .

War Sacrifices Morality.

Emily Partin

v

Among those. who. may find them-
selves participating in a war, I don’t
think a majority of them consider human
life expendable. For many of us, this
question already has an obvious answer.
The crucial question is this: how can we

as individuals relate our beliefs to .

life in our society? We are citizens of a
state, we are individuals living in a world
in which not everyone acts in accordance
with their beliefs, and in which people
and. nations are often cruel, inhumane,
and violent.

Therefore, as one who is attempting to
come to grips with the idea of conscien-
tious objection and the decisions that
this involves, I phrase the question in
this way: to what extent ought I to
compromise or subordinate my beliefs to
the political situation of the modern
world, specifically when it comes to the
question of participation in war.’ It’s a

So we have two ipeukioinics: ay «een P
disproportionate-number of athletes ‘exam
from outside this ‘areé.and 2) a dispro- 1

-portionate number of scholars: from. : .

within our erce:..Can,this, vicestion be: inlaid

very. difficult to’ get.’ ‘local athletes: - ion.
accepted at Davidson. Recruiters mist.

resort to area prep schoole (which are poop

relatively few in. number).or to high on”:
schools outside this ares to find potential

_ athletes.
The second problem hurts us far inore.
Davidson has little academic reputation

in the North and West, and it is difficult
to get outstanding students from these —

strategic advantage. What: does it do to

our world when our society as a whole.

orders its values in this way? To the
person who says that if there were not
people in our society willing to abandon
their beliefs when necessary we. would
have problems, I reply that.if and when
those people in our society who do hald
certain convictions must totally abandon
them for questions of political expedi-
ency and military, strategic advantage
are not the implications even more
severe and the problems. even greater?

2. Ifa conventional war starts, it is
difficult to see“how it can avoid
escalating into a ‘nuclear war. Unless it’s
one of those wars that drag on forever,
sooner or later one side is going to find

itself losing. With its back against the -

wall, and with the advantage that lies in
“going first” in a nuclear exchange, the

’ Josing side,could quite possibly yield to
the temptation to use its. nuclear.

weapons. It. doesn’t have to begin with
~ :as big a: step: as -eniploying. jarge,
' Jong-range strategic weapons: :lik

exchanges of. very heavy weapons. oy
: 3. When trying to determine to. what’. -
extent one ought to go along with an. oe
immoral action that other people may. ps

consider unfortunate but necessary,
there is another question which must be

war. To'see defense as the amount of our
"firepower and the number of our missiles
Pears oncoaliretinss cpm ; ee ae

considered. Not only is there the issue of
abandoning one’s personal conscience—
there is also the question ‘What is the
best way that I can serve my country?” I
don’t think conscientious objection ne-
cessarily implies a “holier than thou” -
attitude i in which the person is thinking
“T have to keep my hands clean while
other people get theirs dirty,”” self-
righteously , setting himself above the .
rest of society. Conscientious objection
has a positive meaning: The refusal to

‘participate in war is not necessarily just

an effort to keep one’s slate clean, it can
also be a positive statement which says
tha war, killing, and emphasis on
mili m is bad for our society and the
best way that I can help better society is
by refusing to participate in ‘war.

. We must redefine what ‘‘national
defense” means. Our conventional un- .
derstanding of what constitutes defense,
and national security must be modified
now that we are threatened by nuclear

