 10—The Davidsonian—March 21, 1980

- Sports Scripts

Women’s Tennis

The Wildcatte tennis team ran their record to 2-0 on the season
last week with easy wins over Queens College and. Converse
College. Neither match tested Coach Pat Miller’ s team as 9-0 scores
were posted by Davidson.

The schedule for this week’s play looks more difficult. however.

Peace College, Furman and East Carolina University are on ‘the -

agenda and a Catte victory in any one of the three would be a
confidence-builder. Coach Miller commented that ‘‘quite honestly I
don’t expect a Davidson win this week.”

A match with UNC-C scheduled for Monday, March 17, will be
played later in the week with a close outcome expected. Also, an
in-depth article concerning women’s tennis is forthcoming in The
Davidsonian. —VAN BECK

| Women’s Soccer

Davidson's Women’s Soccer Club opened their first season with
a scrimmage against the UNC-Chapel Hill Club team last
Satuday. Though Davidson lost 1-0, the team felt quite satisfied
with the game. The play was mostly defensive for the Wildcattes,
with several spectacular saves registered by goalie Marsha Coates.
The Davidson women look forward to challenging this team again
later in the season in a home game.

Davidson's first women’s soccer organization is coached by Doug
Schussler. Their next game is against Fayetteville March 23 at
Davidson. —PAM HAWKINS

_ Baseball

Palmer Muench has a lot to be happy about. His players have
come back from Florida with a 2-0 lead in the Southern Conference
Coach Muench attributes this to many things, but a few factors
stand out. Hitting the ball consistently is an important factor
} h can’t be overlooked. Among those hitting well are Cam
: , John Porter, and freshman standout John Marshall. It
ns inevitable that, each tiine these guys are up to bat, they end

- upon base.

Another important factor is pitching. Jonathan Young (3-1) and
- Diggs Bishop (2-0) are throwing hard and with control. Freshman
catcher Philip Gordon says “‘they’re basically control pitchers.” It
would seem that their records show them in control of not only the
’ ball, but the batter and game as well.

Coach Muench feels that another such factor is that the Cats are
getting ahead early in the game. This allows the pitchers to relax
and concentrate on the batters.

Last weekend the Cats went 2-1, losing to Virginia Common-
wealth but winning two on Saturday from University of
Tennessee— Chattanooga. The Cats collected 22 hits. ‘We played
an eeneee Spe Sree Om weekend,” ‘said Coach Muench.

= JOE FORD.

| THE
AFRICAN QUEEN

| Friday, March 21 at 8:00 & 10:30 PM
in Love

$1.50

| Semon Pesses avelbl $6.00
Last week for Season Passes

ATTENTION Sign-ups for the

_ following elections are goingon
now in Will Terry’s office:

-Class Senators (3 from each class)
-Student Conduct Council
‘(2 positions)
-Council on Campus and Religious Life
| (3 positions) -
-Student Solicitor

_-Defense Advisor

-Review Board (2 positions)
-Honor Council (3 positions)

Deadline is next Tuesday at 4 p.m.

If there are questions call John
Jackson at -6948

Delivery Service

7 Days a Week

6:30 - 11:30

“KEGS FOR SALE”

_ Catering Available for All Campus
Parties and Activities
892 - 8686
