2—The Davideonian— October 31,,:1980

(Continued from page 1)
courses, you think the student, working

with an advisor, doesn’t have the

maturity to make intelligent choices,”
English Professor Gil Holland said:

Both students and faculty questioned

the committee's reasoning in establish-

ing requirements as specific.as taking
economics, western civilization, and a
religion course within the Christian
tradition. Political Science Department
Chairman Harris Proctor said his de-
partment had agreed ‘‘unanimously”’
that the proposed social sciences require-
ment was too specific. ““You could make’
as strong a case for political science as
for economics,” Proctor said, “students
should be able to choose for them-
selves.” EPC member and Psychology
Department Chairman John Kelton re-
sponded to similar objections from
students by saying that economics
consists of a ‘‘fairly unique set of
information’ and should be treated
separately.

Mathematics Department Chairman

Revamped French course to concentrate on oral skill

Bruce Jackson said he is ‘fairly strongly.
opposes to a competency type of

_ mathematics requirement.’’ Jackson.

said he will speak with the EPC about

Students were particularly vocal in
their objections over the addition of a
fourth term to the foreign language

requirement. Junior Rusty King pointed —

out the case of the student who has no
interest in learning a foreign language.
*‘Why can’t we tailor each person's
education to his own needs?”’ King
asked. others called for improvements in
the present three-term course sequence,
which sophomore Ridgely Medlin termed
“not

Members of the foreign language
departments argued that the fourth term
is necessary even if the first three are
changed. More time is needed for
“assimilation and repetition,’’ according
to French Professsor Singerman. Span-
ish Department Chairperson Lois Kemp
said, “‘Language cannot be absorbed too
fast—it’s got to be used as it is

_EPC

absorbed."’ Kemp recommended that the
College invite an outside team to

- examine and make recommendations |
about Davidson's entire language pro-

suggested that more “ mage "
ways to teach language be considered,

- Such as intensive summer institutes or

courses giving two credits in one term.
The EPC proposal specified that all

courses which satisfy distribution re-.

quirements be ‘‘basic courses’’— courses
which provide a broad overview of the
methods and topics of the discipline.
Some professors supported this provi-
sion because of its practical effects.
Narrowing the of courses that
satisfy the area requirement may make
course registration easier, according to
History Professor David Shi. Registrar
Richard jBurts agreed that the provision
would make planning for registration
easier. If there are only a few courses in a
department which can be used to satisfy
the distribution requirement, Burts ex-

a very good course. It would be
superficial and boring.” Since the disci-
pline of political science has no “neat set
of laws and concepts” a student must
master, as they must in economics or the
sciences, Proctor explained, it would be
more stimulating for a student to
examine an area in depth.

“We're trying to help students learn
to think for themselves,”’ Holland said,
‘and your best thinking happens in the
upper- -level courses, not in survey cour-
ses.”

“Freedom is the whole idea behind
education,’’ he added, ‘‘A core can be a
dangerous concept, like relying on
anthologies — you're at the mercy of the
editor.”’

By JENNY O’BRIANT
Staff Correspondent

This term, the Davidson
French Department is offering a
revised French 20 course, which
emphasizes oral rather than
grammar skills.

French Professor Alan Sin-:
german developed the new pro-
gram. Singerman is at David-
son on a one-year visiting
professorship from the Univer-
sity of Maine.

French Professor Charles

Dockery also teaches a section

of the revised French 20 course.
Singerman said he feels stu-
dents did not do enough oral

__Laundry

(Continued from page 1)
was well worthe the money in
terms of the time and effort it
saved them.

If the laundry offered a choice
of full, partial, or no service, 51
percent of the students said
they would use the full service
offered now, while 47 percent
would choose a partial service.
Only two percent. said they
would choose to use no service
at all.

Of the men, 71 percent indi-
cated they would choose the full
service and 29 percent partial
service, while 25 percent of the
women chose the full serveice,
70 percent the partial service,
and 4 percent no service.

Daniel said the committee at
its second meeting discussed
the possibility of offering stu-
dents a ‘“‘mini-plan” of partial
service.

If such a service were offered,
Daniel said, the fee for other
students might be increased to
make up for the reduction. in
income caused by the switch.

For example, every student’s
laundry fee might increase by
. five dollars.

The ad hoc committee wants
to survey the student body to
determine exactly which ser-
vices students. want and to
know. their reactions to a pos-
sible fee increase.

The solution to the laundry
problem remains ‘‘very much in
the formative stages,"’ Daniel .

work in traditional intermed-
iate-level courses. Classwork
used to emphasize readings in
French literature, work in the
language lab, and grammar
exercises.

Under the new approach,
French 20 classes concentrate
on practical conversation work.
For example, students discuss
filmstrips and cassettes in
class. Quizzes are given fre-

quently so that students will
have feedback about how well
they are doing in the course.
Also several compositions are
required. Half the class meets
every other day so that stu-
dents have more time to concen-
trate on their outside study and
can meet in smaller in-class
groups.

Initially, students were
frightened at the prospect of

Student Directory out soon

By JEFF HOLLAND
Staff Correspondent

The student directory will be out some time next week, according
to Communications Director John Slater.

The directory is published annually by the Communications
Department and provided free of charge to all students. It lists
the names, room numbers, phone numbers, home adddresses, and
Parent’s names of all Davidson students, plus addresses
and phone numbers of the faculty and staff.

At the beginning of the term the FIJIs printed directory
listing the names and room numbers plus most of the
phone numbers of on-campus students. The FIJI directory, which
cost $1, did not include information on off-campus students,
faculty, and staff or students participating in the Junior Year
Abroad program. The school directory, on the other hand,
includes this information and is more complete and accurate,
Slater said. As a result, it takes longer to publish.

Because this is his first year at Davidson, Slater said
that he was not aware of the intricacies involved in gathering
and updating the necessary information. He said that next
year he hopes to have the directory out, sooner.

The FIJIs are planning to publish their directory again
next year. FIJI member Jim Troutman said that it provides a good
service for the students until the school directory comes out
later in the term.

No Development interviews

There is ‘‘nothing to report” concerning the selection of a new
Vice President for Development, according to College President
Samuel Spencer.

The Vice President for Development directs all college fund-
raising activities. The position has been vacant since July 1, when
former Vice President Duane Dittman resigned.

WDSR to go on air Friday

‘WDSR, Davidson's student-run carrier current radio station,
will go on the air this Friday.

Station spokesman John Odell said the posters put up around
campus this week announcing that the station was on the air were a
week early.

WDSR, at 580 on the AM dial, will broadcast from 7 a.m. to 12

midnight Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on —

Saturdays, and 10 a.m. to 12 midnight on Sundays, Odell said.
The station’s programming will be ‘mixed, ” featuring all types

of music except classical, according to Odell. Disc jockeys will do

ai Ligeia inn §

Hie hisoae the thauber ofl iuereees to 20 or Sh ther ence “We're

always looking for new disc jockeys,” he added.

Film & Processing?

so much independent oral .
study, according to Singerman, | 'Odak & Polaroid
but they have learned to accept
their responsibility. Pacing is | Contact Lenses?
not a problem for each student
decides on his own how much
time he nees to spend outside of . Hard and Soft
_ Class.

The French department is
planning to modify its French
course next term, also reducing
the emphasis on grammar and SADLER SQUARE
stressing oral work instead, DAVIDSON, N.C. 892-7211

Singerman said.

“MEL BROOKS’ Bose MASTERPIECE’

Hollis Alpert SATURDAY REVIEW

YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN’ GE

MARTY FELDMAN: CLORIS LEACHMAN
“KENNETH MARS... MADELINE KAHN

MICHAEL GRUSKOFF MEL BROOKS GENE WILDER «MEL BROOKS

K WILDER: PETER BOYLE
TERT GARR

MARY W. SHELI EY JOHN URBIS '

PG «»

Tove: |
Friday night 8 & 10:30
$1.50 or Season Pass
Parents Free

