. 2—The Davidsonian— May 2, 1980

focus Boggess, Tutwiler, Taylor & Eg

By MARVIN OVERBY
Staff Writer
In interviews with The Davidsonian
this week, four seniors shared some of
their thoughts about their college ca-
reers, their feelings|about Davidson, and
their plans for the future.

John Boggess, a member of the-

1979-80 College Bowl team, is not sure
what he will be doing next year. He has
taken the Foreign Service Examination,
but has not yet received the results from
the State Department. Boggess said
that he might remain at Davidson next
year and work for either the Admissions
“Office or the Union or look for a job on

“the close peer ag! at

that made it appealing, Bog

said. In particular he centidiued

“gmall classes, the small eating
and the small town” as contribu-

to Davidson’s ambiance.

warned that, in his opinion,

overcrowding is Davidson's most serious

as overcrowded eating houses and
classrooms and waiting lists for housing
can be avoided if the College would
commit itselfto maintaining enrollment
at 1300.

Boggess recommended that students
“not get into a rut,”’ but rather explore a

-variety of disciplines and take courses

that broaden horizons.

He also said that given the opportun-
ity to do it all again he would not have
majored in Political Science, but rather
in English Literature or Theater, broad-
er and less concrete fields.

Ann Tutwiler, chairperson of the
Union Speakers Committee, _ Political
Science major and recent initiate of Phi
Beta Kappa, will be going to Kenya next
year to teach. Unlike Boggess, she said
that given the opportunity again she
would not come to Davidson. She would
choose a more politically active campus,
preferably located in a larger Northern
city.

Tutwiler said that.the things she likes
best about Davidson are its Honor

System, the friendliness of the people
connected with the school, the “sense of
community” and the academic program.

The provinciality of the school and the
male-female social system (which she
blamed on the attitudes of students, not
the infamous ratio) displease her.

Tutwiler urged all students to take
advantage of the programs the Union
has to offer, especially cultural events
and speakers. She also recommended
that everyone consult the Experiential
Programs Office and Spend their sum-
mers doing more than an ‘grilling ham-
burgers.” Tutwiler observed that most
students study too, much and that they
should spend more time getting to know
people better.

She advised students to select courses
not for their content but for the professor
who is teaching the course. That, she
says, is the important thing.

Billy Taylor, a chemistry major and
former Sigma Phi Epsilon president,
hopes to attend medical school next year
at the Medical College of Georgia.

lin weigh likes & dislikes

Taylor said that knowing what he does
about the College he would opt to come
here again. He cited the abundance of
good people in the community as a
reason. However, one thing he feels is an
imperfection in the school is that more
students don’t take advantage of the
many oppotunities offered outside of
academics.

Taylor stated that all students should
be careful to ‘‘explore other opportunit-
ies offered outside of the classroom” and
to ‘‘take full advantage of the Center for
Special Studies.’’

Ann Eglin feels about Davidson much
as Billy Taylor does. Eglin said that she
feels so good about her Davidson
experience that she has talked her
brother into coming here next year and
is trying to convince her sister, a high
school junior, to come here also. Another
younger sister is a junior here now.

Like Taylor, Eglin views the people as
being the ‘‘most important part of
Davidson.” She stated that there are a

(See Focus on Seniors, page 11)

‘New dorms
due in fall ‘81

News At A Glance.

By DEBBIE BLAND
Staff Writer

Physical Plant Director Gro-
ver Meetze said the contract for
the two new dorms should be
ed, construction will begin im-
mediately for completion in
September 1981.

The dorms will be double
occupancy with two floors each.
They will be air-conditioned and
will have a kitchenette and
washer-dryer on each floor.
Meetze said there are no plans
at this time for turning them

1600 students in terms of dining
and housing, despite David-
son’s committment to just 1300
students.

When asked about Davidson's
committment to 1300 students,
Meetze said all immediate plans
the Commons as well as the two
new dorms, are aimed at 1600
students.

Dean of Students, Will Terry,
said, “the two dorms will end
this frantic search for off-
campus housing and will enable
those students wanting to re-
main on campus to do so.
Perhaps now room drawing will
be less hectic, although I’m
pretty sure the students will
continue to make it hectic in
onder to have something to

there are no plans for putting a
lake in the middle of Patterson
Court.

Smith Fiowers

Carrier current radio ready in fall

The campus carrier current radio station should be on the air
next fall, according to Janet Coleman, one of the station’s
organizers.

Students are now painting the room in basement Belk which will
serve as broadcasting center, Coleman said. ‘‘We’ll be moving the
equipment into the room early next week,” she added.

About 30 students, most of them freshmen, have expressed an
interest in working with the carrier current station, according to
Coleman. No officers will be chosen this year, although Coleman
said ultimately there may be campus-wide elections for the station

Siman wins Alumni Freshman Award

The Alumni Medal for highest academic record during the
freshman year was presented to John Siman during Alumni
Weekend.

Evin gets Truman Scholarship

Bob Ervin has received a Harry S. Truman Scholarship,
presented to rising juniors interested in public service.

The scholarship, which carries a stipend of $5,000 for four years,
was established by Congress to support students working toward
government careers.

ODK, faculty, departmental awards

Faculty and student awards were presented at Spring
Convocation last Friday.

Psychology Professor John Kelton received the Thomas
Jefferson Award. The ODK Teaching Award went to Religion
Professor Max Polley.

Students recognized were:

. John Porter, Sandy Black Memorial Award (Pre-med); Will
Flanagan, David Howard Chemistry Award; Robin Dinda, Richard
Ross Music Award; David Reich and David Walls, A.K. Phifer
Award (Economics); Tom Spangler, W.G. McGavock Award
(Mathematics); David Walls, Jefferson Davis Award (Constitu-
tional Law); David Litaker, Bremer German Language Award;
Rob King, Thomas D. Sparrow Award (Athletics); Cindy Curtis,
Susan Roberts Award (Women’s Athletics); David Green, James
Baker Woods III Memorial Award (ROTC); Phil Koonce, George
C. Marshall ROTC Award; Andy Umhau, Daniel Blain Woods
Award (Pre-med); Mark Tommerdahl, Tommy Peters Award
 (ntipcolidgiate Athletics); Sarah Womack, Rebecca Stinson
pease bg agpe Minor Sinclair, George L. Gladstone
Award. (Service); } hy Adkins, Charlies Malone Richards Award;

Katherine Allen, 4 6 Sentelle Brown Award (Service).
Ne oer tig DK society are:
Class of ‘80: Dick Dis rade aap Mike Garfinkel,

activities, and athletics. “They are elected by current’ members.

ship, cultural and community |

WDAV fund drive nets $8,000

The WDAV fund drive Spring Frolics weekend netted over
$8,000 in pledges, according to Station Director Ed McIntyre.
McIntyre said there were 358 contributors, with about 250 new
subscribers and 100 renewals.
The station needs to raise an additional $4-5,000 before June to
meet its goal for the semiannual fund drive, McIntyre said.
Subscription renewals should cover this amount, he added.

Ginger Taylor to aid President Spencer

Senior Ginger Taylor will be Assistant to the President next
year. :

Taylor will succeed John Cunningham, who presently holds the
position. Her duties will include coordination of special events such
as Trustee meetings and Spring Convocation, as well as research
for Dr. Spencer and processing of educational surveys.

Eddie Harrison new Hobart's editor

Sophomore Eddie. Harrison will be Editor of Hobart's Park
magazine next year.

Hobart's Park, founded in 1978, publishes student creative and
expository writing and artwork. ~

Computer Services Director sought

An advertisement for the new position of Director of Computer
Services will appear in this week’s Chronicle of Higher Education,
according to Director of Personnel and Administrative Services
Robert Stephenson.

Stephenson said the new director will begin work by the fall.
The director will help select Davidson’s new computer system,
scheduled for installation for the 1981-82 school year.

SGA names student advisory members

The SGA has appointed the student members of advisory
councils for next year. They are:

Educational Policy Committee: Bill Purcell, Elizabeth Medlin
(reappointed)

Media Board: Sheri Gravett, Tom Schember, Kevin Wheelock

Alumni Relations: David Fleming, Steve Shelby

Admissions and Financial Aid: Todd Thompson, Gray Hampton

Council on Campus and Religious Life: Gray Bullard, John Eley ’
Dennard Lindsey, Richard Terry, Mary Windham

Physical Education: Bobby Barnes

Library: Stewart Wicker

Finance, Personnel and Development: Phil Dayne, Steve Shelby,
Richard Terry
Pr sig tnaed Athletics: Alvin Atkinson; ‘Kirby Owen, Mark

ogry

Academic Lectures: Roy Fuller

Counseling and Guidance: Cindy Clark, Jeff Jordan

Interviews for the Advisory Council on International Education
will be next Fall. |

Three SGA selection committees headed by senators Chip
Hurley, Mark Murrey and Jeff Stidham made the appointments
after interviewing interested students.
