October 3, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

Carter's Record Is His Own Worst Enemy

Randall Stroud

Preestom hath a thousand charms to
show,
Which slaves howe'er contented never
hnow.
Cowper
Beware of little expenses; a small leak
tll sink a great ship.
Franklin

When White House Press Secretary
Jody Powell was asked what four more
years of Jimmy Carter would be like, he
said they would be very much like the
first four. Can the United States truly
survive four more years of record
breaking inflation and unemployment,
foreign policy blunders that have seri-
ously damaged our respect abroad, a
weakened defense, and large increases in
government spending? Many people feel
that another four years of Jimmy Carter
will be all that’s needed to officially sign
America’s death certificate. They are
right.

American voters have been given the
choice between two major candidates
this year. While two other names will be
on the ballot, press and public opinion
surveys give both little chance for
victory. Thus, the arguments here will
be confined to Mr. Reagan and Mr.
Carter.

If voters were to take the time to
analyze Carter’s record, they would
almost surely vote for Reagan. Carter
knows this and’ is running scared. He has
recently inaugurated a new campaign
tack of mudslinging. While speaking
before a group of black leaders, Carter
said that Reagan’s campaign was one of
“hatred"’ and ‘‘racism.’’ Later, in a press
conference that was nothing more than a
free televised campaign appearance,
Carter was forced to deny these remarks.
In California, Carter called the choice for
President a decision between ‘‘peace and
war.'’ White House aides were then later
forced into admitting that he had
“overstated”’ his idea of Reagan as a
warmonger. As the Wull Street Journal
so eloquently put it, ‘‘The issue this
raises is not about Mr. Reagan’s
mentality but about Mr. Carter’s.”’

In order to best examine these two
candidates, we should look at their
stances on the three critical issues of this
year’s election.

The Economy

Carter has given us the worst economy
since the Great. Depression. Both unem-
ployment and inflation have reached
tremendous heights, a feat thought
economically impossible until Carter got
the chance. Ironically, these were the
very things he promised to reduce back
in 1976, and it is again no coincidence
that he is making these same promises
today with even greater fervor.

Reagan has some ideas for solving
these problems. Tax cuts to stimulate
business, combined with a reduction in
the rise of government spending, have
been proven empirically to help alleviate
unemployment and inflation. Many then
ask why Carter hasn't taken these steps
if they are so obvious. Perhaps it is
because inflation works to the govern-

ment’s advantage because it provides:

unlegislated tax increases against the
American public. Deficit spending

Opinions Anyone?

The opinions expressed on this page
are those of the columnist(s) and do not
necessarily reflect the official position of
The Davidsonian.

- We invite anyone interested in writing
a column to contact our Opinions Editor,
Rick Jenkins, at 892-6806 or -6355

allows the federal government a hidden

tax to help meet the demands of special .
interest groups, and thus garner votes. ©

It should be remembered that if. the
federal government finances its deficit
through borrowing, this money is taken
out of the private sector where it could
have been used to create jobs or bolster
production. It is also a tax on future
dollars because of the increased debt
that must eventually be payed back. If
the federal government simply prints the
extra money needed, inflation increases.
As we are all aware, inflation taxes a
family’s savings by reducing the buying
power of those savings. In any case, the
American people are the losers under the
present regime.

Moreover, experts on Wall Street

attribute the stock market's recent boom
to the feeling that Reagan will win in
November. This clearly indicates that

~~ o TLL Wer
= ray ol 9 3
CPS

the American investor has faith in
Reagan's economic programs, and faith
is something America has sadly lacked
under the Carter administration.
Energy

A Justice Department study showed
Carter's Department of Energy culpable
for the long gas lines we experienced

during ‘the summer of '79. The study

found that DOE’s pricing and allocation
regulations were responsible for the
market's failure to alleviate the shor-
tages by restricting the allocation of
gasoline to, areas where it was most
needed. :

Energy is certainly not one of Carter’s

strengths. Not only has his administra-
tion produced such. boondoggles as the |

one cited above, but Carter himself has
been guilty of sheer hypocrisy. At the
summit meeting last spring, he signed
an international agreement calling for
government encouragement of nuclear
power to help ease dependence on OPEC
oil. After returning home, however, he
continued to hamper the development of
nuclear power plants. Carter has never
explained this contradiction. When he
took office, Carter also halted construc-
tion of a nuclear. waste reprocessing
plant that was already °7.)‘% completed!
This plant, if finished would have been
able to reduce nuclear waste by 96‘: ! An

‘outside observer would think that Carter
was trying to make us totally dependent
on OPEC for our energy. Yet he
continues to claim that his administra-
tion is dedicated to finding alternative
sources of energy. He points to his
massive Department of Energy (which
has a budget greater that the combined
profits of all oil companies!) as evidence.

Reagan has the better idea: let the free
enterprise system that our country was
founded on handle the situation as it
always has. In other words, let Ameri-
can ingenuity work unhampered by that
Mass of Mismanagement known as the
federal government. Nobel Prize winning
economist Milton Friedman illustrates
how it can work by noting that America
has gone through five major energy
conversions with no help from the federal
government.

By allowing the market system to

work as it should, as a /rev enterprise,

- consumer conservation would be encour-

aged and such alternative energy sources
as wind and solar power would become
economically feasible.
Defense.and Foreign Policy
Carter's main foreign policy problem
seems to be a lack of contact and
communication with his advisers and
diplomats. For example, during the
SALT II negotiations, U.S. representa-
‘tives were using the Bl bomber as a
prime bargaining chip against the
Soviets. U.S. negotiators were stunned
to read in the paper one day that Carter
had cancelled the B1. They had been
given no warning or instruction on how
to handle the situation, and were forced
to play\it by ear. The result was a treaty
that lef¢ America a second-rate power.

—Of_coyse, thé SALT II treaty never

became official because Carter couldn't
depend on his own party in Congress to
pass it. Later, he said the U.S. would
follow the SALT II guidelines regardless
of its approval in the Senate. Moscow
then put out a statement saying they
would not adhere to the treaty’s guide-
lines until the Senate had ratified it.
This lack of communication has
become a thorn in the side of the Carter
administration. Secretary of State Cyrus
Vance resigned because of disagree-

ments with the President. (It was later
discovered that Vance had been forced to
assume the blame for what were really
Carter's blunders). Now Muskie is
complaining that his opinion is not being
heeded in matters of foreign policy. = -

The Reagan-Bush ticket is especially
strong in foreign policy, because of
Carter, Mondale, Reagan, and Bush, no
one has more foreign policy experience
and expertise that Bush.

Reagan is often accused (though with
little foundation) of being a jingoist. The
Soviet Union, however, has indicated
that they would rather deal with
Reagan's steady foreign policy than
Carter's wild unpredictability. They
even went so far as to say that war is a
greater possibility with Curter as Com-
mander-in-Chief. Carter’s original state-
ment that this election is one between

war and peace may prove correct, then.

"SO, IS IT A DEAL, SENATOR?... SPEAK DIRECTLY INTO YOUR CHICKEN.”

The only difference is that the vote for
Reagan is the vote for peace!

Less Government, More Freedom
We should carefully scrutinize the
arguments and ‘charges made in this
campaign; it is interesting to note the
many contradictions.

An excellent example is the attack
Carter has made on Keagan’s 35 billion

dollar tax cut proposal. Carter claims

this tax cut would cause ‘‘fierce infla-
tion,’ then he in turn advocates a 28
billion dollar tax cut he calls ‘‘anti-
inflationary .'’ Does Carter seriously
believe that 7 billion dollars can mean
the difference between ‘‘fierce’’ and
“anti-" inflation?

The founding fathers of this land had
enough faith in the individual to provide
him with a great deal-of political and
economic freedom. The federal govern-
ment has slowly eroded these freedoms
by taxing our lives and resources to the
point where we are becoming. nothing
but sheep. We are now presented with an
opportunity to start reversing this trend
through our choice on November 4th.
How about it, America? Let’s show a
little faith in each other and get Big
Brother off of our backs.

Randall Stroud is a freshman from
Houston, Texas.
