THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Kincaid’s The One.

Davidson faculty, staff, and local students may be as
disgusted with the prospects in this year’s presidential
election as the rest of us, but at least they have a good
choice for U.S. House of Representatives—Randy
Kincaid.

Both Kincaid, a Davidson Economics Professor on
leave, and his opponent Jim Martin, an ex-chemistry
professor here, agree that the economy is the most
important issue in their race for the Ninth District House
seat.

Economy —

Kincaid’s plan of attack on inflation and unemployment
arises from a strong knowledge of the problems of the
American economy as well as of economic theory in
general. Kincaid, a Democrat, has pointed out that
inflation is caused by many factors, most significantly
OPEC oil price increases. Kincaid maintains that the
United States needs to develop several new tools in order
to cope with our economic problems, and realistically
recognizes that some of our economic problems are

‘ond governmental control.

ne of Kincaid’s new tools would be moving to a
four-year federal budget which would require Congress to
do more long-range economic planning and cut down on
excess government spending. Kincaid explains that a four
year budget would reduce year-end wasteful spending by
government agencies who do not wish to return unspent
unds back to the general fund.

Martin, a Republican, simplistically blames inflation on
the federal government. He explains that rising oil prices,
for example, are not a cause of inflation because “You
can buy oil today cheaper than you could have 20 years
ago if you buy with constant coinage” (The Davidsonian,
October 24).

Constant coinage means the value of the metal in metal
currency, Martin says, yet all this tells us is that the
prices of metal and gold have risen concurrently. Unless
you've been stowing away trashcans full of coins every

ear, rising oil prices both constitute inflation and cause
nflation since the price of oil is a component of the price
of practically every other good or service in our economy.
Martin’s view of inflation is economic gibberish.

Martin supports the Kemp-Roth tax cut plan, but he has
been unable to really explain how he could reconcile the
cut with a balanced budget, particularly since he wants to
increase the defense bu get. Martin said “cutting the fat”
in federal spending would help balance the books, but
both Republican and Democrats have cited this same goal
time and again without ever making any real progress
towards meeting it. Both in his past record and his
campaign rhetoric, Martin has given us no reason to make
us think he could do any better.

Defense

Both Martin and Kincaid have advocated a strong
defense, but Kincaid seems to have a much better
knowledge of how we can get a strong military, opposing
some ms and endorsing others. Martin seems
ready to give the Defense Department a blank check for
any. now weapons system they desire, ignoring Kincaid’s
suggestion that we strengthen our conventional forces
through: better pay and encourage Japan and our
European allies to shoulder their share of our collective
defense. burden. %

_ Kincaid -supports passage of the Equal Rights
Amendment. Martin has opposed the ERA, saying in
Thursday's Charlotte Observer, “My principle reservation
‘is: that. the present amendment isn't going anyplace. It’s
not. being ratified, it doesn’t look like it's going to be
ratified.” Martin went on to say he would like to re-word
the amendment to. make it more palatable to the public,
but we question the value of having a representative in
Washington who will not support a measure almost solely
because itis unpopular. —

. Randy Kincaid isa good and capable man who has a

. Solid’. understanding of ‘the major issues. as. well. as
specific proposals to help solve our. problems in defense
and the economy. Jim Martin seems to have jumped onto
the conservative bandwagon “before gaining a strong
understanding of the issues. Instead 6f having a
representative who votes on the basis of a knee-jerk
conservative reaction, we would like a Congressman who
has thought about the issues and will speak his mind.

We think Randy Kincaid should be that Congressman.

— Mark Barrett

“ST LEAST SON
PUT

=

vB

 APPRECIATES US! ‘TWe WHITe HOUS@ WANTS To
IN CHARGE OF COMPILING THe INFLATION FIGURES”

The Campus Forum

Eco No Good

To the Editor:

It grieves me to read “‘in-
formed’’ commentary which on-
ly succeeds in illustrating the
ignorance, and even worse the
narrow-mindedness of the
authors.

I was thus grieved when
reading the article in the Oct. 17
issue of The Davidsonian entit-
led '‘‘Forty Dollar Patterson
Court Fee No Solution.’’ Ignor-
ance, unfortunately, cannot be
pleaded by the authors; the
article was obviously well-
researched. Equally obvious,
however, are the faetors con-
veniently left out.

Specifically, the authors fail-
ed to mention that the existence
of large waiting lists has little if
anything to do with the estab-
lishment of this policy. Fund-
améntally, the use of the policy
would allow Patterson Court
houses to retain some kind of
balance between academic
classes; it must be realized that
the maintenance of this class
balance is essential for the
future well-being of the houses.

I read on, thinking the auth-
ors will have to present this
rationale eventually. I was, of
course, wrong. What I did find,
however, was a proposal that
the houses ‘‘could promote...
stability by incorporating a
supply and demand situation
into their operations.”

SUPPLY AND DEMAND?
Did the authors desire to sud-
denly achieve rank as ‘‘eco-
studs” by magically inserting
the words “‘supply” and “de-
mand”’ in their article?

I would hope that one day the
authors might learn that the

_ houses of Patterson Court base

their prices on cost. To want it
any other way is an absurdity.
What rationale would one use
for the distribution of places on
Patterson Court via price? Do
the authors wish to penalize
those students whose finances
are marginal in order to imple-
ment some absurd policy that
has absolutely no relevance to

this situation?
I guess it must be the magic
of those wonderful words...
Jim Tholen ‘81

Phonathon
To the Editor:
In the oext few weeks you

will probably be bombarded
with a. wave of publicity regard-

ing the upcoming SGA Phona-
thon. In determining the extent
of your participation, you will
naturally be evaluating what
your present obligation is to
Davidson. That is, what role
does the current student have in
development at Davidson Col-
lege? We would like to stress
that the student body can and
should assist in raising funds to
support a College budget of
which tuition constitutes only
45%.

There are basically two rea-
sons why the reluctant student
should consider participating in
development activities. The
first concerns our use of faci-
lities that were endowed to
Davidson by previous genera-
tions of alumni and friends of
the College. As Associate Dean
of Students Sue Ross once
pointed out, we have fallen heir
to buildings we didn’t raise and
programs we didn’t begin. We
have enjoyed so far the fruits of
others’ labors, and perhaps it is
our responsibility to begin. our

‘own endowment of the College.

Contribution to the College does
not necessarily begin only after
graduation; rather, such contri-
bution can commence while the
student is still at Davidson, and
it does not have to take the form
of monetary gifts. Time and
effort spent assisting develop-
ment at Davidson is certainly as
valuable as the money you
could presently give. -

The second of these reasons
concerns the fact that tuition
and student fees do no consti-
tute the entire operating budget
of the College. In fact, tuition
covers only about 45% of the
budget, while student fees add
only an additional 18%. Thus
the income from students pays
only 58% of the approximately
$11,300,000 per year it costs to
run the College.

Where does the other 42%
come from? (No, it’s not from
pop films revenue). A lot of it

_ comes from individuals andcor- .
porations outside the College

community inthe form of
‘grants, gifts, and endowments
as solicited by the Development

Office. The success of this office .
in meeting their year-to-year |

goals can. be’ measured by the
ability of the College to ‘keep
tuition and fees down. What we
want to stress is that there are
‘any ways students can aid the
Development Office in meeting
these goals. : ‘
The most immediate of these

| Bernadette Walter, Production Associate

ways is the SGA Phonathon
which will run the first two
weeks of winter term. Its goal is
to assist the College in meeting
the Dana Challenge Grant
which matches (in varying pro-
portions) funds given by the
College’s alumni this year. Dur-
ing the Phonathon students will
be calling many classes of
alumni to solicit gifts to David-
son. This project will be one of
the few times the student body
as a whole has the chance to
serve the College.

The SGA will need a great
deal of student participation,
and we would like to encourage
all interested students to con-
tact their senators for more
information. The experience
should be interesting, reward-
ing, and (we think) fun.

Stuart Dorsett ‘82
Kevin Wheelock ‘81

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. We
reserve the right to edit letters
for length and clarity. All
letters must be signed. Deadline
will ordinarily be the Monday
night of the week of publication.

The Davidsonian is publisheu
weekly in the academic year
(except during holidays and
examination periods) by the
students of Davidson College.
Mailing address: P.O. Box 218,
Davidson N.C. 28036. Tele-
phone: 892-2000, extension 148.
Subscription rate: $8.00 per
year. Advertising rates availa-
ble on request. Seeond class
postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Mark Barrett, Editor

Peter Hairston, Business Manager

Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Rick Jenkins, Opinions Editor

Jeft Dempsey, Production Associate
David Prettyman, Production Associate
“Lisa Buckley, Production Associate

