|

vy — a

(Continued from page 4)

Let us not speak ‘proudly of
our restraint while the Russians
deny us access to Middle East
oil. Neville Chamberlain gave
away Czechoslovakia in the
name of restraint. Learn the
lessons of WW II Isolation is
not feasible in this shrinking
world of.ours.

“There is nothing for nothing
anymore,’’ President Carter

said recently. He was right. T 9.

paraphrase Dwight...The weak-
ness lies within the American
people. Individuals must use
their common sense. They must
realize that a war in the Middle
East does not, of necessity,
mean a return to the imperial-
ism of the Vietnam era.

Dwight is not the only writer
guilty of deficient journalism.
The Davidsonian needs to be
tightened up. The excess must.
be cut away so that the under-
lying substance can reveal it-
self.

Better research, greater
thought and less sensationalism
is needed. A story worth report-
ing will stand on its own merits.

Christopher Norwood 82

Krentz Supports
Semester

To the Editor:

I was disappointed to read
Mark Barrett’s (uninformed?)
judgement that ‘‘few people
seem to care whether Davidson
operates on the term or semes-
ter system.” I care, and my
vague impression is that Sue
Ross and I do not stand alone,
particularly among those facul-
ty members who are experienc-
ing Davidson’s odd system for
the first time.

Some responses to objections
I’ve heard: 1) changing to
semesters would require reor-
ganizations of some courses,
particularly science labs—but
since over the year the same
number of students would be
taking the same number of
courses over the same number
of class days, my non-mathe-
matical mind concludes that no
extra lab sessions would be
necessary; 2) the Humanities
program (and other intensive
courses) could operate precisely
as they do now, by giving 1%
credits for a semester course
which meets five days a week;
3) regarding foreign travel pro-

The Campus Forum

nate the hideous problem of a
3-week Christmas break in the
middle of winter term; 2) a
semester system would enable
students and faculty to stu-
dy /teach at another institution
occasionally (most U.S. colleges
and universities are on a semes-
ter system); 3) we would only
have to live through registra-
tion, drop-add, and exam per-
iods twice each year, which
would mean an enormous sa-
vings in time for all involved
(especially advisors).

It is admirable that Davidson
was willing to try the three-
term system. It would be mor
admirable still if we now ad-
mitted that the experiment has
failed. There is just not much to
be said for our current calendar,
except that it would require
some work to change.

Peter Krentz
Professor of History

Draft fs
Reasonable

?

To the Editor:

While there was, I concede, a
smattering of justification for
the last anti-draft movement,
there is no foundation for a
renewal of that same cause,
save for the one composed of the
sand of illogical rhetoric, the
mud of mindless altruism, and
the ooze of eruditionary hog-
wash.

Anti-draft sentiment is an-

achronistic, for certain events of
the decade past have shown us
that registration, if not the
draft itself, is needed, for
example:
. 1. While the Soviet economy
is programmed to devote a
considerable amount of money
to military research and devel-
opment, our military spending
has: decreased since fiscal 1967,
in terms of real dollares, by
16.5% as compared with fiscal
1979 ($68.9 billion in 1966
dollars for fiscal 1967 v. $117.7
billion in inflated 1978 dollars
for fiscal 1979);additionally, the
percentage of the total U.S.
budget allotted for defense
spending has decreased from a
standard of 45-50% to 23% for
fiscal 1981.

2. After all attempts to
placate those who have striven
for some unrealistic concept of

grams, I think we need to international peace, and despite

consider whether we can afford,
in these days of rising stu-
dent:faculty ratio, to send sore-
ly needed professors abroad
with a dozen students during
the school year—these pro-
grams should perhaps be moved
to the summer, or to the short
term of a 4-1-4 system; 4) I
assume (perhaps too hastily)
that professors would, under a
semester system, continue to
teach 6 courses per year and
would have a full semester for
sabbatical leave. I recommend
that the faculty adopt 'a semes-
ter system only under such
conditions. _

On the positive side: 1) a
semester system would elimi-

what many academicians postu-
lated during the Vietnam era,
we find that Soviet policy
vigorously advocates a policy of
expansionism by force as dic-
tated by the Marxist theory as
corrupted by Lenin and Stalin.

3. The War Powers Act has
specific checks which limit the
amount of time that any Amer-
ican troops can be committed to
war on foreign soil. Thus,
American opinion will serve as a
check against an immoral war,
as the Vietnam conflict was
perceived by many.

Ron Kirksey, editorial editor
of the Kingsport (Tenn.) Times-
News and a product of the
Vietnam era, writes, ‘‘There

sophomores who did not have a
where in Asia but neither was ‘room until just a few days
protecting or promoting the before they returned last fall
American Dream or freedom might very well have to ho
and justice...But there is a clear
threat to our strength and again. -
influence that cannot be dis- On what evidence does the
missed...That while our rela- © CCRL base their statement that
tionship with communism has ‘‘off-campus living can be a
often been a silly witch hunt, shock after the protective en-
there are indeed real witches in vironment of the freshman
the world, and they do fry year’’? There is nothing to
children.” Amen. guarantee that some sopho-

Most of us such as myself mores won’t be “shocked”’ when
have not enlisted in service to they have to move off-campus.
our country because it was not I believe most freshmen con-
required. But our leaders are sider themselves responsible
now awakening to the fact that enough to leave their ‘‘protect-
not all countries have the same _ive environment’”’ and move a
idea of compassion and good- few minutes away from campus.
ness as do we. And, it’s about Is moving off-campus any more
time that they have. of a shock than the one they

Yes, it is time that we come _ received during their first few
out of our Camelot bask into the
world of reality. It is evident Admittedly, I am writing this
that we arem ourselves not to _ letter mainly for selfish reasons.
act as the aggressor, but to The article explicitly states that
fulfill the oblications of our the juniors pick second.¢Does
social contract, which empow- this mean off-campus sopho-
ers us to actively defend the mores get first choice on
freedoms which our unique sys- _college-owned houses such as
tem grants us: the freedom to Thompson House or Julia John-
worship as we please—or not ston House? I have this under-
worship at all. The freedom to standing from reading the
develop our abilities to their article. If so, I object for two
fullest...and even to protest reasons: 1) My chances, as welll
against a mditary draft. as the chances of other juniors,

So, put away your * ood- of getting into one of these
stock records and your bus __ perimeter housing units will be
tickets to Toronto. Don't buy lessened, and 2) It sets a
gasoline in order to burn your. dangerous precedent. If I were
draft cards. And, -most of all, the sophomore who waited until
don’t attempt to defer yourself a few days before school started
from sevice to Columbia; for she
grants all of us specific rights,
and she requires that all. of us,
not just those of us who aren’t
rich enough or smart enough,

were two parties fighting some-

assignment and got a room
assigned at the last minute, I
would also demand a top pick in
the lottery. Who's place is it to
stand up for those rights. judge the degree of inconven-
That's what we fought for at jience students go through in
Valley Forge, Yorktown, New getting a room?
Orleans, Gettysburg, Iwo Jima, I see the best solution as

the 38th parallel...and even _ letting the juniors pick first, the
Saigon. That’s what my immi- the off-campus sophomores, the
grant Italian grandfather the sophomores, and finally the

fought for on foreign soil during freshmen. There is no need. to

World War I. penalize juniors or to create the

And THAT’s what we're possibility of the sophomores

“fightin’ for” now. getting a poor room two years
Frank Santore,"81 in a row. ‘Mark Carpenter ’81

Lottery Changes Student Behavior
Won't Help Was Appalling

To the Editor: To the Editor: -

The article, “Housing lottery This letter is being written at
rearranged,” in the February midnight February 5, 1980 in
Ist issue of The Davidsonian reference to student actions
raises some serious questions earlier this evening. We are

‘concerning housing selection — appalled that a bon-fire, begun

next year. Why, for any reason, _in a spirit of fun, could turn into
should the off-campus sopho- a scene of mob violence. At-
mores draw before the juniors? tacks upon and disregard for
The simple fact of seniority the Davidson Volunteers Fire
should be enough to“ensure department are a shameful re-
juniors first pick. Why not let flection on “educated” David-
off-campus sophomores pick af- _ son students.
ter the juniors? Surely there will One can nof ignore parallels
still be plenty of good rooms between this scene and the New
available at that time for the York City blackout. In each
sophomores to “‘make up” for case, ‘“‘humans” allowed their
any inconveniences suffered baser natures to lead to de-
this year. struction. The incident included
I believe that the only people not only vandalism to proper-
who should be guaranteed on- ties, but also physical attacks
campus room placement arethe upon volunteer public servants.

incoming freshmen. Why pena- We visited the firehouse at
lize this year’s sophomores two 11:30pm tonight to express our
years in a row by making them shame about the actions of our

pick after the freshmen? Those _ fellow students. The firemen

through the same “‘shock’’ .

weeks at Davidson? I think not. -

to find out a definite room °

understood the student's revel-
ry and they were not overly
upset about the mindless at.
tacks on theit persons and
‘vehicle. Their main concern is
for the future, safety of the
student body—they hope they
wil not be shunned in the case
of a true emergency.
Cindy Lou Faulkenberry '82
Susan B. Marynowski '82

BSC Invites

To the Editor:

This letter is being presented
in honor of Black History
Month. The Black Student
Coalition invites you to join
them is celebrating this month
of Black History.

I want to introduce to you the
significance of the BSC, (Black
Student Coalition) by quoting
another member of the BSC,
Kevin Hanna.

Kevin states: ‘‘The Black
Student Coalition is not a racist
organization, we are not a
budding Black Panther Party.
In fact we invite those of the
‘majority’ to participate in our
activities and functions. How-
ever, I must emphasize that the
BSC is to be taken seriously.
We, as members of the Coali-
tion, object to the misconcep-
tion (held by those who are only
vaguely aware of our existence)
that ours is a social club of
blacks. We are not. Although
fellowship is an intregal part of
our existence, it is not the
primary function of the BSC.
For although the BSC has been
in existence for a number of
years, we are, just now, ac- ,
complishing inroads towards
important goals. We intend to
communicate— campus-wide—
our activities, along with perti-
nent information which-will help
people understand our organi-
zation as a whole, and the needs
of black students in particular.
The participation of all in-
terested parties is warmly wel-
comed.”’

The BSC’s main purpose is to
provide the black students of
‘Davidson College with some
identity as a group, without the
exclusion of the non-black ma-
jority.

In closing this letter I give
to. you the Preamble to the

BSC’s Constitution:

“We the black students of
Davidson College do establish
this kindred to preserve the
pride and dignity of the stu-
dents who have gone on before
us, as well as those who will
follow after us. With the foun-
dation of a strong liberal arts
education, we seek to. insure
that our cultural heritage is
remembered, preserved, and
maintained as long as this kin-
dred exists. We seek to esta-
~blish our places of endeavor not

only at this college, but wher-

ever our callings may lead us.

With our work in mind we

establish this kindred, the

Black Student Coalition of Da-

vidson College, to prepare us to

enter a world where we will
better serve those whose lives
depend most upon our survi-
val.”

Terrazzo Wallace '80
