Norman Koller

After seven years I am leaving’

Davidson, but I would like to leave some
parting thoughts. I'am going to miss
many of my colleagues very much. I will
always feel fortunate to have known
many people here, including faculty,
staff and students, as well as many in
Davidson not associated with the col-
lege. Although I had other options at the
time, I was attracted to Davidson by its
claim to “emphasize the teaching res-
ponsibility of all professors, and to
ensure the opportunity for personal
relationships between students and tea-
chers.”” Davidson seemed to offer a real
alternative, for both professors and
students, to the large, impersonal
schools which seem to emphasize every-
thing but. excellence in the classroom.

I don’t believe I could have made a
greater commitment in time and energy
than I have here. I regularly put:in 60 or
70 hour weeks teaching one of the
highest loads at the college, developing
new courses, teaching above the normal
course load, sponsoring internships and
independent studies, and, during the
past three years, coaching the cross
country team.

As the time for a tenure decision drew
near, I felt I had every reason to expect a
positive decision. President Spencer had
said, on a number of occasions, that.
there would be no “tenure quota” here.
In addition, he indicated that every
effort would be made not to keep faculty
for six years if there were indications
that they might not be given tenure, as
this would unnecessarily injure their
careers. Such statements seemed to
reflect a genuine concern for the youn-
ger, untenured faculty. Even though I
never received an evaluation, either
formally or informally, from the admin-
istration prior to tenure, I felt confident
in light of feedback from colleagues,
student course evaluations and above-
average salary increases. I also felt, in
spite of the fact that there were three
different academic deans and a lack of
continuity in expectations during this
time, that an administration with the
least amount of concern would surely
have indicated in some way if I needed to
strengthen a weakness or put more
emphasis in some area.

Coaching men’s cross country and
organizing the first women’s cross
country team proved exhausting, and I
returned to my office nearly every night
in order that teaching and other activi-
ties not suffer. When I was asked by the
athletic department, with President
Spencer’s permission, to become in-
volved in coaching, I considered this the
kind of extraordinary commitment only
possible at a school like Davidson.
Although .I enjoyed this work, it was
certainly not the kind of activity I would
have gotten involved in if I thought
there were any chance of being released
by the college.

Because no effort was made to bring in
a permanent coach, I sought a meeting
with President Spencer prior to my
second year of coaching (and well over a
year before the tenure decisions). I was
certainly not interested, in*}éopardizing
my teaching career in the face of an ever
tightening job market based on “publish
or perish.” President Spencer seemed to
understand my position and the time
involved in running the program. I left
his office assured that I had his
endorsement and blessing to continue
offering a “highly valued service.”

During the year or so prior to the
tenure decision there were indications
that tenure would be more difficult to
obtain and that the college would be
shifting its policies to retain the flexibili-

ty of a larger number of untenured
faculty position. This, of course, re-

flects a national trend and is seen by

many as a necessary response to hard .

economic times and an oversupply of
Ph.D.’s. Large, prestigious universities

expect that many, perhaps most, will -

not be tenured. Scholarship takes a
heavy précedence over teaching in the
light of demanding criteria and intense
competition. Periodic evaluation and
review is crucial for the young faculty

can point to nothing in the tenure
decisions which reflects an understand-
ing of or concern for the faculty member.
If evaluations. are desirable, why were
they not given? They have since been

“tenure would be limited.” Faced with
the necessity of breaking with past

instituted under Dean Zimmerman, but a.

this is of little help for those who served

under the past unclear administrative

procedures. I personally feel grossly

deceived, bled dry, and humiliated.
College policies are not unrelated to

the high turnover in faculty. ‘‘Not too

FIFTEEN BUCKS

DO NOT HAVE,
I HATE To BE AMISER.
BUT YOU Dow’T HAVE

TO

TOW MY CAR:

THE KEYS ARE ON THE
— VISOR.

member to manage his time and to
compete effectively.

In the six years absence of any
indication that I should have allotted
my time differently, and with, in fact,
considerable encouragement in my ef-
forts, I saw no reason for concern. I had
sacrificed looking attractive on the job
market by being overly committed to
teaching and college and community
activities. This, I believed, was what
made Davidson special. I found it
impossible to even imagine that the rules
would be changed at the end of the game
and that I would be sacrificed for
essentially economic reasons. I was
wrong.

Nothing in my life prepared me for the
shock of the tenure decision. My
experiences here have been totally
colored by the nightmare of this past
year and the adminstration’s evasive
efforts to defend their position. Spen-
cer’s explanation that ‘‘though periodic
evaluations are desirable in examining
untenured faculty, they have not been
considered essential,”’ is a defense, not
an explanation, and of little comfort for
those who were given no evaluations. I

large’’ is President Spencer's response to
the number of professors leaving David-
son at the end of this year. “A
significant turnover can be an advan-
tage,”’ he adds. Indeed, in what way?
Some of Davidson’s finest teachers are
leaving and others, who are going on
leave, have indicated privately that they
will probably not return. They can,
however, be replaced by less expensive
one and two-year ‘‘replacements” whose
primary orientation is to moving on. The
college budget will be the primary
beneficiary at the expense of the
educational program. The college pro-
fesses one thing but delivers another.

I have come to expect. that official
college statements are sometimes “‘co-
lored”’ to assure good public relations. I
recoil, however, from anything that
does not reflect the truth and I think it
is a shame that administrative decisions
necessitate a coverup. Spencer told the
student senate that all those considered
could have been given tenure if they had.
met the lofty ideals of the code of
evaluation. A trustee, on the other hana,
indicated in a' private conversation that

it was the trustees’ expectation that

was not consulted in any way. Nor was I
given an opportunity to discuss the

here with any member of the administra-

. tion prior to the decision. President —

Spencer's depiction of an ‘‘agonizing
weighing of all evidence” seems empty
rhetoric as I was left holding much
“evidence”. which was never submitted

- because no one told me it was necessary.

In a conference last fall which Dean

“not be discussions of or justifications
the tenure decision itself,’’ I was

of.
astounded that I was encouraged to do

so. Zimmermann hinted at, but did not

elaborate on, other ‘{weaknesses”’ which
I.think only refleet the extent the
administration is out of touch with my
activities and. what is going on in my
own department. In sum, I feel the
tenure decision in my case was one of
convenience for an administration faced
with maintaining more untenured ‘teach-
ing positions. i

The faculty is understandably cau-
tious about their standing in the
institution which affords them a liveli-
hood. Among the several regrets I have
had about Davidson is the reluctance,
which I have shared, of the faculty to
have the moral courage to act. We make
lofty claims about honoring the heroes of
the past but show little heroism our-
selves. As Ralph Nader, in his recent
talk here, characterized much institu-
tional behaviour, ‘‘we get along by going
along.’’ The authority structure provides
a powerful opponent and we have much
to lose.

A second major regret is what I have
seen Davidson unnecessarily do to many
students. Some of the most lasting
lessons learned here are not taught in the
classroom. The student is often in a
unique position to contrast what he
experiences on a day to day basis with
the image which attracted him here in
the first place. Hypocrisy and double
standards are not easily hidden. The
tenure decisions were merely another
event which bewildered and angered
many students.

New, straightforward leadership,
combined with an unwavering sense of
fairness and real caring, is needed to
replace the fatalistic cynicism which is
all too common. I came to love Davidson
for what it might be: I’m deeply
disturbed by what it too often is. I hope
the future brings better days. ie gek

Seven years ago a professor leaving
Davidson wrote; “‘There is a general
atmosphere in recent times that makes
me think the soul of this place could be
had for 30 pieces: of silver” (The
Davidsonian, May 18, 1973). The price

who, r and Zeigler,

was denied tenure in May, 1979...

