By” AIDA DOSS

April 4,:1960—The Davidsonian—7

I have put aside with the faundr yor.

Pulitzer prize winner Maxine Kumin to judge Vereen Bell awards.

Features Editor

For five days. next week, April 7-11, Davidson
College is in for a rare treat. Maxine Kumin, poet;
novelist, and winner of the-1973 Pulitzer Prize for
poetry will be the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Writer.
(Last year’s Woodrow Wilson Fellow was Joan Manley
of Time-Life books.)

During her week at Davidson, Kumin will work with
student’s poetry and prose in informal workshops. Due
to the length of her stay, it will be possible for Kumin to
critique a piece of writing, see the revision, and then
offer additional suggestions. Students wishing to
submit their work for Kumin’s comments should see
English Professor Tony Abbott to schedule an
appropriate time. While here, she will also present the
Vereen Bell and R. Windley Hall awards for creative
writing Monday, April 7, at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

A student once said of Kumin’s poetry criticism:

‘‘When you bring your poem to class it’s like laying
your~baby on an altar for a priest’s approval. Some
professors kill it—and you. But she doesn’t. No matter
how bad it eventually turns out to be, she never says
it’s bad. She always says things like, ‘I like that phrase
in the third line,’ and ‘How well you describe the
kitchen door.’ When she’s done, you get your baby
back and you can take her suggestions and make it
better.”

Kumin has written six books of poetry, the most
recent being The Retrieval System, published in 1978.
The title poem explores the strange ability some
animals have of bringing back memories of ‘‘lost”’
people:

the wethered goat who runs free in pasture and stable
uith his flecked, agate eyes and his minus-sign pupils
blats in the tiny voice of my former piano teacher. .

My elderly aunts, wearing the heads of willful
mielligent ponies, stand at the fence begging apples.
ihe sister who died at three has. my cat's faint chin,
my cat's inserutable squint, and cried catlike in pain.

Later in the poem, she states the process clearly: “. . .
Fact: it is people who fade,/it is animals that retrieve
them.” In essence, Kumin is saying that animals,
because they are animals and yet come so close to being
human, uniquely recall to mind the human memories
we've misplaced.

In another poem, ‘‘The Knot,’’ Kumin muses:
Lately Lam changing houses like sneakers and socks.
Time zones wrinkle off me casually.

Shi receives NEH grant to research ‘the simple life’

Monday, April 7.
10:00am Anne Sexton's poems Morrison Rm.
7:30pm Reading & presentation of
; Vereen Bell Awards 900 Room
Tuesday, April 8
10:00am Conversation with
T.J. Reddy Morrison Room
6:00pm Sign-up Dinner with
Students Morrison Room
7:30pm Discussion Morrison Room
Wednesday, April 9
10:00am Children’s Literature -Morrison Room
7:30pm Reading of prose 900 Room
Thursday, April 10
10:00am Coffee Gallery
10:30am Discussion Morrison Room
Friday, April 11
10:00 Discussion Conversation Pit

By MELISSA McKEITHEN
Staff Writer

History Professor David Shi
has received a $2500 summer
research grant from the Nation-
al Endowment for the Human-
ities.

Shi will be travelling to
Swarthmore, Harvard, and
Yale this summer in order to
carry out research for a book
entitled The Simple Life:
Voluntary Simplicity in Ameri-
can Thought, to be published
by the Oxford University Press
in 1982. He will research manu-
script collections to examine a
select group of American intel-

lectuals from colonial to present
times who have espoused a life
of ‘‘voluntary simplicity.”

These individuals placed a
high value on personal freedom
and control of their own time im
order to ‘reduce the time spent in
satisfying these needs.

This intellectual history will
be related to contemporary
concerns such as the ecological
and economic crises of the
1980’s. Shi said he will demon-
strate that ‘throughout history
we have had spokesmen of the
austere life’ —including Jeffer-
son, Thoreau, Emerson, Wil-
liam James,,and Scott Nearing

—and that their ideas may be
helpful as we are forced to adopt
this ‘‘austere life’ in the near
future.

Shi’s initial interest in this
project came with the an-
nouncement of President Car-
ter’s first energy program in
1977. He said Carter’s frequent-
ly quoted phrase ‘'the moral
equivalent of war,” is actually
derived from an essay by Wil-
liam James, a 19th century
American philosopher.

Shi’s special interest in the
field of history is American
intellectual history, and he has
written two papers on interests
related to the austere life which
will soon be published in the
South Atlantic Quarterly and
the Journal of American Cul-
ture.

The chances of Shi receiving
the NEH grant were one in
seven. All colleges and univer-
sities were eligible to nominate
two applicants for a grant from
the NEH summer stipend fund.

Shi received his B.A. ‘fom

Furman University and his
Ph.D. from the University of
Virginia. He has a book planned
for publication in January 1981
by the Yale University Press
entitled From Dadaist to Muck-
raker; Matthew Josephson and

. the Literary Left.

u row of borrowed kitchens, look-alikes ‘
im achich 1 crack: thee burn t ig
but even in Danville, Ke nee hr: ghosts” a worn
come along, they-relocate as easily as vicky casa
setling in another field,
(House. Brides Eemicate, Gate)

Kumin's poems draw on, personal. experience and
visions of the natural world. In them one senses the.
soft, deft touch of a sensitive mind, yet it is frequently
tempered by an unexpected image or phrase of
realistic humor. She was once introduced as someone
who “writes with a special humaneness—she latches on
to ordinary things, iereape the: warMhgerEmne (Reg
Gibbons)

Sometimes, -one subject. is tented ina "verety of
ways in different poems. Thus, there is the Hermit

cycle (“The Hermit*Wakes to Bird Sounds,” “The.

Hermit Prays,” etc.), the series of poems dealing with
her horse, Amanda (“Amanda Dreams She Has Died
and Gone to the Elysian Fields,”’ ‘‘Amanda Is Shod,”
etc.), and the group of poems dealing with Henry
arpa a fictitious elderly bachelor (‘“Hello, Hello
‘The Henry. Manley Blues,” etc.).
yg attended Radcliffe, where she received

New England life. ‘In the magazine Country Journal she
writes:

“Every day the sap gets hauled up-hill from twenty
taps to metal trash barrels set.in the snow at a point
where the land thinks better of it and levels off for a

boughten variety. Qurs is even paler, purer, and has a
buttery taste to it. We are full of grimy complacence..
But what a lot of work! By rights maple syrup ought to
cost $500 a gallon. Anything less is a swindle."’

Besides poetry, Kumin has also written four novels
as well as a number of children’s books. She has been a
frequent visiting lecturer on English and creative
writing at several colleges and has served as a staff
member of the Bread Loaf Writer’ Conference six
times. In STR Sie ehcaieed the Pulinar, HS Se Ber
eee POY Up Country. _

