The Back Page

Short Course Sign-up

The sign-up for short courses begins Monday, December 15 and will
continue until Friday, December 19. Some courses have a limited number

of spaces so sign-up early. The courses offered are basic banjo—taught
by Greg Kucera; table tennis—Dave Hoskins; bridge—John Butler;
Indian. cooking—Mrs. Amelia Thomas; jazz improvisation—
Paul Ward; recorder—Ed Trumbull; Southern cooking—Will Terry;
Dungeons and Dragons—Tom Bessellieu and Stan Reed; beginning to
intermediate guitar—John Hartman; ‘Interesting People in David-

son’’—Mrs. Grier Martin; French cooking—Mary Booth; beginning
rappelling _-Ben McCall; organic vegetable gardening— Irwin Brawley;
folk dancing —David Lyons; photography — Frank Bliss; juggling — Bill
Giduz; American sign language— Dale Withrow; bread making— Ruth
Pittard; recorder ensemble— Ralph Gable.

Christmas Vespers at DCPC

Religion Professor and Reverend Alexander J. McKelway will preside
over the Christmas Vespers service at 7:15 p.m. on Sunday, Dec. 14 at
the Davidson College Presbyterian church.

Performing will be the three College choruses, the Male Chorus and
the Chamber Choir directed by Donald Plott and the Women’s Chorus
directed by Linda Warren. William Lawing will direct the Brass choir, a
contingent of brass musicians.

The program also includes original works by two Davidson professors,
Wilmer Hayden Welsh and Dirk French. Welsh, the College organist, will
perform his Three Preludes for Christmas on Shape-Note Hymns as part
of the program prelude. French will present his adaptation of a familiar
German advent hymn, O Saviour, Rend the Heavens Wide, to be
performed as a chorale fantasy for organ and chorus.

The program will be broadcast live over WDAV-FM, 89.9 on the dial.

IFC Happy Hour

The Interfraternity Council has designed a happy hour which will be
held every Saturday afternoon by a different fraternity. The happy hour
is to encourage everyone on campus to stop by and visit with
friends. Drinks are 35 cents.

The first IFC happy hour was held last Saturday at the PiKA house.
Phi De!ta Theta will host this Saturday’s happy hour from 4-6 p.m.

Events On Campus

Thureday, December 11]

7:00-12:00 p.m. Campus/Community Christmas Party Union
Friday, December 12
2:30-4:30 STEP Tutor Puppet Show with refreshments 900 Room
8:00 & 10:30 Pop Film: Annie Hall Love
Saturday, December 13
8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Graduate Record Exam Gallery
9:30-1:30 Band Party: ‘‘Sandcastle”’
12:00 midnight movie: The Kids are Alright, $1.50 Love
Two albums of the movie soundtrack will be given away as door prizes.

Sunday, December 14 . |

- 1:15-8:45 Christmas Vespers DCPC

Wednesday, December 17 ? :
12:30 Open Luncheon _ 900 Room

Sports —
Thureday, December’ 11 |

} 7:00\p.m. Women’s Basketball: UNC-Greensboro Away
Friday, December 12

7:00-9:00 p.m. Basketball: First Union Tournament Charlotte

_- Davidson vs. Wieconaia & UNCO ve. Texas A&M
Seturday, December 13

1;00.p.m. Wrestling: Pfeiffer, dual match . | | wi Away °!

7200-9:00 p.m, ] Peskepbell: First Union Tournament ‘Charlotte

California Artist In Gallery

Bruce Erman, a California artist, has an exhibition of his new work
currently hanging in the Gallery. To produce his new art works, Erman
has used industrial chemicals to effect black paper in order
to bring out the white images instead of painting the white images on the
surface. In other words, he produces the images in a negative manner.
Erman’s new art form results from his interest in the deteri-
oration and change process.

Erman received his Bachelor of Architecture Degree at the University
of California at Berkeley (1969) and his M.F.A. in painting from the
California College of Arts & Crafts. He has had a variety of exhibitions
since the early ‘60s throughout the country. —

Sandcastle

The east coast band Sandcastle comes to the PiKA house on Saturday,

December 13. Sandcastle began as a five piece part-time band in 1971.

The group turned professional in 1974. In 1975 they performed for Susan
Ford’s senior prom at the White House.

Sandcastle currently consists of six members: Roy Patterson, lead
vocals and percussion; Alan Brown, lead vocals and trumpet; Bruce
Wall, drums, Gentry Flye, bass guitar and vocals; Alfred
Walker, keyboards, saxaphone and vocals; Sonny Thompson, lead guitar
and lead vocals. They play a wide variety of music, all with a danceable
beat. The band party begins at 9:30.

Union Christmas Party

The annual campus/community Christmas party will be held at 7:00
p.m. in the College Union on December 11. The various rooms of the
Union will hold different activities. Upon entering the Union, one will
encounter Santa in his sleigh. The T.V. Lounge will be transformed into
Santa's workshop in which will be a tree and various figures — Raggedy

_ Ann.and Andy, a soldier, a ballerina, a Jack-in-the-box, Pinnochio, and

Mrs. Claus.
The ‘Women's Chorus will perform in the 900 Room along with Religion

Professor Daniel Rhodes who will read the Christmas story. Hot cider

and eggnog will be served as refreshments.

The Conference Room will have an exhibit entitled “Alternative
Gifts.’ Its purpose is to suggest creative ideas for Christmas presents. :
Finally, the Morrison Room will have international foods to taste and
people teaching oragamt and cookie acoeiaing.

“Edited by Jean Soracco

