March 14, 1980—The Davidsonian—3
SAAR RESORT REETTE IE

Afghanistan Has Had Problems Befor e

Job Thomas

Editor's note: The break in studies has
given us time to rest and Possibly to
think deeper about U.S. foreign policy.
Dr. Job Thomas, Davidson's Director of
South Asian studies, has been reading
about the history of Afghanistan and
here presents.a survey of crucial events
in Afghanistan’s diplomatic history.
This brief overview outlines problems
Afghanistan has had with its neighbors
in the past one hundred years. We hope
that the survey will help illuminate the
present situation.

During the middle of the 19th century,
the British gained control over the
Indian subcontinent. British rule in the
subcontinent itself was direct and ef-

‘
if
|

ING
|

fective, but control over Afghanistan, on \

its western edge, worked through a
tribal leader and under some complex
treaties. The British were ignorant of
Afghanistan’s geography and tribal
customs, and the fierce Afghans mis-
treated foreigners. Some of the Afghan
tribes, the Pushtus in particular, lived in
large numbers in the North Western
Frontier Province of the Indian subcon-
tinent. Although directly under British
control, they never acknowledged Bri-
tish authority over them. Their loyalty
was always to their tribe and their faith.

British expansion westward in the
Indian subcontinent coincided with Rus-
sian expansion eastwards in Central
Asia. During the 19th century. Czarist
Russia annexed several independent
kingdoms and reached the northern
borders of Afghanistan. Britain viewed
this with concern because it raised the
possibility of the Russians invading
British India through the Khyber Pass.

The Afghan rulers became very sus-
picious about the intentions of these
powers. They felt that both Russia and
Britain, in their appetite for territories,
would not hesitate to make Afghanistan
the next area for their fight. Goaded by
this fear, they wanted to keep both
powers out of Afghanistan.

The growing desire of Afghanistan to
assert her independence resulted in
frequent conflicts with British India.
After two wars, the murder of several
British diplomats, and the loss of
thousands of soldiers, Britain decided in
1893 to withdraw from Afghanistan. The
British, before withdrawing, wanted to
set definite boundaries between Afghan-
istan and British India. The Amir of
Afghanistan, Abdur Rahman, in his
eagerness to get rid of the British,
agreed to this step.

The British Withdraw

The Indo-Afghan boundary line drawn
by Sir Mortimar Durand, and known as
the Durand Line, was ratified by both
parties in 1893. The Durand Line cut
across the traditional habitats and
grazing areas of several tribes. It also
cut across river basins, lakes, and
mountains. In short, the line ignored
the political and geographical charac-
teristics of the region. The British
Foreign Secretary from London and the
tribal leader from Kabul, in their
‘negotiations,’ were on entirely different
wave lengths, Abdur Rahman thought
the line would delineate spheres of
influence over frontier tribes rather than
be a final scientific boundary. He signed
the treaty, but did<not initial the
maps—he later confessed that he did not
at all understand the maps. It must be
pointed out however, that though the
British withdrew, leaving the internal
administration to the Amir of Afghani-
stan, they retained control of Afghani-
stan’s foreign affairs.

Towards the closing years of the 19th

“SAVE ME FROM MY FRIENDS!”

A prophetic interpretation of Afghanistan's situation first printed on November 30,
1878. The bear represents Russia; the lion represents Britain.

(Reprinted with thanks to Punch Magazine.)

a>

Iii deliveries of ;

century Britain considered dividing Af-
ghanistan with Russia, but kept it as a
buffer instead. This attitude was agree-
able to the Russians also, and by the
Anglo-Russian Convention of 1907 both
the powers. agreed to keep out of
Afghanistan.

At the turn of this century, Britain
was compelled to divert her attention
towards the growing demand for self-
rule within India. Afghanistan wanted
to see India’s struggle for freedom
succeed, because the struggle was aimed
at driving the British out. Taking
advantage of Britain’s difficult situa-
tion, Afghanistan.began to challenge the
validity of the Durand Line and claimed
some areas within British India where
the Pushtu speaking Afghans lived. The
Congress Party in India, which was
leading the struggle for Independence,
supported the Afghan claims. These
claims eventually led to war. The British
in India realized that they then faced a
greater threat from Germany than from
Russia and decided to. disengage com-
pletely from Afghanistan. In 1917
Afghanistan gained complete indepen-
dence. Ph

Afghanistan After Independence

To preserve its independence, Afghan-
istan immediately appealed to other
countries for recognition. There were,
meanwhile, changes in Russia. The
Bolshevik Revolution had brought new
leaders who were avowedly anti-imperia-
lists. Amanullah, the Amir of Afghani-
stan, wrote to Lenin, recognizing the
newly established Soviet state, and
requesting reciprocal gestures and mili-
tary aid. Lenin replied by recognizing
Afghanistan as an independent state and
proposing ‘‘mutual assistance against
any attempt of the foreign vultures” to
deprive either Afghanistan or the Soviet
Union of their newly established govern-
ments. :

Soon after the conclusion of the First
World War, Stalin, to cement.an alliance
with'the Muslims, convened at Moscow
a congress of Muslim Communists. ‘‘No
one.can erect a bridge between the east
anda vet as easily and quickly as you
“can” he‘told them, “This is because the
door is #pem for:you in Persia, Af-
ghanistiin, India and China.” The
Congress later passed several resolutions

against the British and other “imperial-
ists,’ and a ‘‘Permanent Council for
Propaganda and Action of the Peoples of
the East”’ was set up in three cities in the
Soviet Union to serve the Near East, Far
East and Middle Asia. The Soviet
Middle East center was established at
Tashkent, a city near the Caspian Sea,
to serve Afghanistan and India,

Afghanistan turns to the US

During the 1920’s Afghanistan began
to look for aid from other countries and
received assistance from Germany, Italy
and Japan. The fact that all these
countries were hostile to Britain made
Afghanistan search for an alliance with a
‘third power’. In the Afghans’ eyes, the
United States was such a power because
it was not a colonial power, it was
sufficiently far away not to become
entangled in Afghanistan’s internal af-
fairs, and it possessed industrial and
economic strength. The U.S., however,
was not inclined to assume such a role.
One source said, ‘The history of early
U.S.-Afghan relations is the story of a
continuous Afghan effort to convince a
reluctant American government that it
was in its national interest to. be
represented in Kabul.’’ When an Af-
ghan delegation visited Washington in
1921 as a step toward establishing
diplomatic relations, it received a cold
reception. President Harding felt that
Afghanistan was too much in the
Anglo-Soviet sphere of influence for the
U.S. to get involved.

In 1930 Wallace Smith Murray, chief
of the Division of Near Eastern Affairs
gave the State Department's rationale
for a policy of non-involvement in
Afghanistan to a Congressional commit-
tee. The reasons included that Afghani-
stan was a fanatic Muslim country,
extremely hostile towards whites and
Christians, and lacked banking and
other communications facilities.

W.H: Hornibrook, the head of the
American legation in Tehran, visited
Kabul'‘in May 1936 to artange for the
accreditation of American diplomats in
India to serve as representatives for
Afghanistan. The Afghans again re-
quested Hornibrook-to establish a

permanent, legation in Kabul, and even

gave the American Inland Oil Explora-
tion Compariy(rights to explore for oil

with hopes that a large contingent of
technicians and their families would
settle in Kabul. The Company started |
prospecting in 1937, but within a year
cancelled the explorations because of the
worsening international situation. A
permanent American jon was final-
ly established in 1942 four
later the U.S. financed an irrigation
project in the Helmand river valley. _
During the Second World War, the
Germans were active in Afghanistan

i) _ carrying on several clandestine activities
- both against British India and Iran.

They even promised the Afghan rulers
support. The Afghan king, however,

- shunned the prospects of making Af-

ghanistan a theater of war and
down the German offer. ieee

Relations With Pakistan

In August 1947, Britain partitioned .
the Indian subcontinent into predomi-
nantly Muslim Pakistan and “Hindu”
India. Afghanistan requested that the
areas occupied by the Pushtu speaking
tribes not be given to Pakistan but
annexed to Afghanistan or at least given
to the Pushtus. Afghanistan’s expecta-
tion was that an independent Pushtu
speaking area would be a friendly power.
Independent India vigorously supported
the idea of ‘Pushtunistan,’ and is even

' alleged to have offered assistance to the

Afghan rebels. At this point Afghani-
stan’s hostility towards Pakistan was so
intense that it cast the only negative
vote to Pakistan’s admission to the
United Nations. — wed

Also in the late 40’s, the Soviet Union
and Afghanistan settled their boundary.
In 1950, the two countries signed a four
year trade agreement. The 50's also
pation in the economic development of
Afghanistan.

1955 was packed with events in the
history of Afghanistan. Due to anti-
pakistani riots in Afghanistan over the
Pushtunistan issue, Pakistan closed the
Khyber pass, which nearly cut off
Afghanistan from the rest of the world.
The Afghans immediately appealed to
the US for assistance in ing a new
transit route through Iran to port of
Chahbahar in the Persian gulf, but both
the US and Iran were lukewarm to the
idea because they thought it would be
too expensive.

The Afghans then turned to the Soviet
Union and requested a further extension
of the 1950 trade agreement. An
Afghan-Russian barter agreement was
signed which guaranteed thejimport of
petroleum products and mater-
ials in exchange for Afghan wool,
raw-cotton, and hides. The same year
Khruschev made a much publicized visit

to Kabul and declared Soviet sy for
Meanwhile Pakistan ‘with the

US in joining SEATO and CENTO.
This cemented the lines in the relation-
ship between Afghanistan, the: Soviet
Union, Pakistan, and the US. In 1961,
after another series of riots over the
Pushtunistan issue, the Khyber pass |
Afghanistan’s perishable goods were air-
lifted in massive quantities to the Soviet
Union, j f u : m ‘ r . *
The 1961 border closure placed the U:
in a delicate position. rotitiag Prat
dent Eisenhower's Visit to Kabul in
both in the economic and
spheres, The border closure stn

Oop Nhe ea

