Administration Cannot Rationalize Discrimination

Katherine Allen and Karen Hester

Have your ever had a sister or close
female friend who was an excellent
candidate for admission to Davidson but
was rejected? At the same time you
probably knew of less-qualified men who
were accepted. This type of. injustice
occurs every year under Davidson’s sex
based quota which restricts admissions
to a male/female ratio of 2:1.

As members of Davidson’s National.

Organization for Women chapter, we
support an equal access admissions
policy which does not impose a set ratio
of male to female students. Such a policy
would admit the most qualified stu-
dents, regardless of sex.

In the past, well-qualified women have
been rejected in greater numbers than
well-qualified men. This fall we made a
study of how this year’s freshmen class
would look if the College had an equal
access policy. Based on folder ratings,
the results showed that 33 women who
were rejected last year would have been
accepted for the class of ’84. Such
blatant sex discrimination is inconsist-
ent with the College’s Title [X statement
found in the catalogue: ‘‘Davidson
admits qualified students and administ-
ers all educational and employment
activities without discrimination be-
cause of race, color, religion, national
origin, age, handicap, or sex, except
where exemption is appropriate and
allowed by law.’’ We do not feel that an
arbitrary sex quota is appropriate in the
year 1980.

For the past two years early decision
acceptances resulted in approximately a
one-to-one ratio (41 men, 40 women for
the next year) since early decisions do
not have to follow the sex based quota.
Ultimately, however, the higher ratio of
women accepted under early decision
probably means more rejections of
women under regular admission because
of the arbitrary quota.

Although many Trustees and alumni
cite other reasons for maintaining this
rigid quota, most admit their primary
defense rests on tradition. A typical
response is, ‘‘Davidson has always been
a male-dominated school and I don’t
want to see it become predominantly
female—period!’’ No one can argue with
people who refuse to accept change when
change is needed.

However, we can rebut some basic
objections most often raised concerning
equal access admissions. What kind of
physical and academic changes would
the College have to make if female enroll-
ment increases? Two years ago, NOW
polled all department chairmen for their
reactions on adopting an equal access
admissions policy. All but two depart-
ments foresaw no problems based on the
minor changes they experienced when
co-education first began.

As to physical adjustments, anyone
familiar with the way Davidson alters
housing arrangements every few years
knows that when a male dorm becomes a
female dorm the only change made is
adding a couple of shower curtains.

How will an equal access policy affect
the athletic program? Critics point out
that certainly a decline in male students
will shrink the pool of possible partici-
pants in male intercollegiate sports. Yet
just as surely the number of female
athletes will increase. Why should
womens’ sports be less important than
men’s sports?

Wouldn’t Davidson become predom-
inahtly female with the adoption of an
equal access policy? For insight into this
question we wrote to the eight colleges
that Davidson contacted when it went
coed: Williams, Franklin and Marshall,

University of the South, Dartmouth,
Colgate, Princeton, Kenyon, and Hamil-
ton. We found it particularly frustrating
to realize how backward Davidson’s
policy is compared with more progres-
sive attitudes elsewhere. All eight
schools we contacted have an equal
access policy. In none of them has the
percentage of women quite reached 50%,
as male applicants still outnumber
female applicants. With equal access
there would be an increase in the number
of women at Davidson but the school
would not become predominantly fe-
male. Based on our study, this year’s
class under equal access would have been
59% male and 41% female.

Wouldn’t alumni donations go down if
more women were admitted to David-
son? At the schools we contacted,
alumni giving has not been affected by
equal access. But what about 20 or 50
years from now? Aren’t women less
likely to contribute to their alma mater?
It is a fact that in the past women have
given less than men to their alma mater,

2 taagg, P x
tae 4, OH ayy “
. me Wh 6's Witt. rust “eral ‘athe aD
» OK a Sk 4, 9b: 0.4, tO

but there are several explanations.
First, in the traditional family scena-

rio of female homemaker and male

breadwinner, the man has most often

‘been in charge of financial contributions.

Any contribution would most likely go
to his alma mater. In recent years more
and more women are working outside the
home and this trend seems likely to
continue. Of course, women still make
less money than men in the job market
and, therefore, have less money to
contribute to their college. However,
denying well-qualified women admit-
tance to academically prestigious
schools such as Davidson will only
perpetuate this vicious cycle of economic
dependence. If women are rejected by
schools such as Davidson, how can they
be expected to get the higher paying jobs
which will enable them to make contri-
butions? To reject equal access on the
basis that women have traditionally
given less to their alma mater raises
grave ethical implicatons as well. Is a
major consideration for admission to

some. OE 6

igs wo a r q yy, oO
“Aa mr (82))

Davidson based on the candidate’s
potential to give money?

We may continue to use rational
arguments to fight stubborn tradition
without producing a change in policy.
Yet nothing we or the Trustees do will
alter the fact that Davidson must
eventually face the reality of the
shrinking applicant pool across the
country. Given the demographic trends
of declining male and increasing female
applicants, our admissions office realizes
that our wisest move is to enlarge our
own pool of prospective women.

However, to change the sex based
quota only when Davidson faces a
declining number of applicants is a
valueless decision. As a church-related
institution, we profess to grant equal
opportunities for a quality education to
minorities. Why not also to women? As
long as the Trustees continue to uphold
an irrational and discriminatory policy,
we are failing in our commitment to a
Christian ethic of equal justice for all
students.

~ (S -
J =)
c vu

OLAS

Will Davidson Be The Same?

Leland Park

What kind of Davidson do you expect
to find or want to find when you come
back for your twentieth reunion in the
year 2,000 A.D.? We talk about that
quite often. That is, what kind of
Davidson College do you want to find.

We who live under that ubiquitous
title of the ‘continuing community” also
ask ‘‘what kind of town do we want to
find in the year 2,000 A.D.?”

SYNCO is a corporation about which
the citizens of our town have talked a lot
recently, and well they should. This
corporation from Charlotte has become
the second biggest landowner—second
only to Davidson College—in our area.
Specifically, their holdings begin about
where the Elox plant is located on
Griffith Street and run to I-77 (both
sides) and across to and including the
beautiful Lake Norman peninsula. SYN-
CO has been going through the legal
maze of getting permission to begin the
development of this area for residential
purposes. They plan, as soon as the
market will allow, to transform the area
into what could be another town. There
will eventually be 900 living units,
consisting of duplexes, apartments,
patio homes (small homes, sharing a

common wall with another home, with a
very small deeded lot), and condomin-
iums. The pace is slow because the town
can only supply the requisite water and
sewer services but for 20 units.

My purpose now is not to debate
SYNCO. I’ve already done that in The
Mecklenburg Gazette. Instead, I want
to comment on why the citizens of this
little village are concerned with the
SYNCO development or any other
development, around here.

I firmly believe there is something
worth supporting and sustaining in the
Davidson of today for tomorrow. De-
fending the preservation of the town of
Davidson ‘“‘as we know it now”’ can be
done in analytical terms. But the true
reasons lie much deeper and are harder
to capsulize in a few words. It is, rather,
an ambiance which pervades us all.

In television ads a common setting for
depicting the particular product is back-
on-the-farm: takes us through an his-
torical area, shows us a sunrise or
sunset, and peers down into a canyon or
up at the moon. There is a “get yourself
together” and ‘‘free yourself of tinsel”
feeling conveyed. It is a very real mood
in this country today. The flight from

the cities, which has been studied and
reported so much, is a direct reflection of
this mood. And there are other examples
which are just as telling.

In the town of Davidson, as we in the
“continuing community’ know, there is
an emphasis on the personal, much as
there is on our campus. Town and
Gown are really very similar. People
speak on the street. The members of the
Town Council live or work in the area
and are confronted by their electorate
face-to-face on Main Street daily or while
leaning on a grocery buggy at Cashion’s.
Democracy and representative govern-
ment really exist here.

The social columnist for the local
paper reports on the goings and comings
of our fellow townsmen; one rarely finds
and unknown name listed there. Anony-
mity comes only to those who purchase a
newcar—and that lasts only until the
word gets out. Loving concern blossoms
at times of tragedy. We all remember
when Mr. McKissick, a local black man
who was a wizard at repairing shoes and
leather goods, was put out of business

Leland Park is Director of the Library.
