“‘Seeeeeerconeen

|

Back Page

Arthur Lawrence, Grcjaniet

Organist Arthur Lawrence will perform Monday, November 10

~ at 9:00 p.m. at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Lawrence, a native of North Carolina, received his

degree in 1969 from Davidson College, where he studied organ with

Philip Gehring ‘and Jan Schinham. He also earned the M.M.
degree in music theory from Florida State University, the A.M.L.S.
degree in music librarianship from the University of Michigan, and’ the

‘Doctor of Musical Arts degree from Stanford University.’ ‘His

hacpeichord work wae with the late Putnam Aldrich and Margaret
Lawrence ‘Sr’ pied thighct the Thatet Seatss, as well as
Europe, and has published many articles dealing with the organ and the
harpsichord. He has servéd as a member of the faculty at the Centre
College of Kentucky, at the University of Notre Dame, and at Saint
Mary's College of Notre Dame. Currently Lawrence is Editor and
Publisher of The Diapason, an international organ and harpsichord
journal, and also the organist-choirmaster of St. Paul’s Episcopal
Church in La Porte, Indiana.

The program of Monday night’s recital includes Paul Hindemith’s
“Sonata I”, ‘‘Noel Suisse” by Louis-Claude Daquin, ‘‘Prelude and

Fugue in A Minor’ by Johannes Brahms, Cesar Franck’s

“Fantasie in C Major, Opus 16” and “Passacaglia and Fugue in C

‘minor, BWV582” by Johann Sebastian Bach.

Oliver: Appears. In 900 Room

‘Vine anaaystoohiciiauiadie ‘tha:naaha conte fccuctrthcgea: il, lonore bin
songs~Good Morning Starshine and Jean, Oliver is the stage name for

William Oliver Swofford, a native North Carolinian. i
_ A member of various music groups, from an early: ego, Oliver,realized

i thet: music.-was. to be his, .constant. passion ,and_ livelihood...
after entering the University of North Carolina.on a Morehead Scholar- “A

ship. He joined:two.other hopefuls to form The Virginians, a folk-rock

group that had several recordings on Epic records: UJ os preduesibn

the. group changed. its name to. .The Good.
York Loman recording contract, with Bob Crewe. When the group.

to record alone using Oliver as his. rofessional name..

“Good Morning, Starshine” from. ne msusical Har wae, Oliver's firet
recording éffort and sold over a million copies. ‘‘Jean”’ . from the movie

The... Prime .of . Miss. .Jean . Brodie... was his ~second
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie was his second success. The two songs
earned him a. Grammy nomination, Although a composer in. his

own right, Oliver is also an interpreter -of diverse artists such A

as John Prine, Dave Brubeck, and Stephen Sondheim. ’
‘Oliver will perform two sian. ui 9:30 and 11:00 on both Friday.and

Saturday. Admission will be $1.00. Friday night's shows will be’

Se eee

i

to stay with the company and

- . as

Events-On Campus .

Thureday, November 6. _
7:30 Look Homeward, Angel

“Hodson Hall

-Friday,. November 7 waht ae ge

8:00 Look Homeward, Angel... Hodson Hall
8 & 10;30 Pop Film: One Fle » Over the Cuckoo's Nest ot Leve’
9:30 & 11:00 Oliver—Folk Singer 2 tae 900 Room
8:15.Organ Recital by Judith. 0 ; DCPC

Saturday, November 8 .. . :
12-6 p.m. Chertotte Ares’ Béuéational Caneorthim preseats the Student
Talent Shower come, §xiow Ube, Hiyot -staciens: aloes Jose eros:

Thursday, November 13

A

full service—I.D, required, 900.Room
7-9:30 Square Dance Front of Chambers
8:00 Look Homeward, Angel. Hodson Hall
9:30 & 11 :00 Oliver— Folk Singer. Admission $1. 900 Room
9:30 Polynesian Paradise Party Sig Ep House _
‘Monday, November 10 :
9:00 Vesper Concert with Arthur Lawrence, organist —pDCPC |.
Wednesday, November 12. :
"12:80 Open Luncheon with guest speaker Mary Thomberry,
Political Science professor. ae 900. Room
8:00 Fine Film: Basic Training kc Love

6:15 Sign-up dinner with guest speaker Victor Herman Morrison Room .

7:80 Victor Herman speaking on ‘My 45 Years in Russia” ‘900 Room

Friday, ‘November 14

10 a.m. Reception with Victor Herman: 7m
Informal question and answer session 200 Room

8 & 10:30 Pop Film: A Clockwork Orange ' _ Love

Victor Herman Plans Visit

Victor Herman, an American citizen imprisoned in a Soviet labor camp
fot more than ten years, will speak here on “My 45 years in the
U.S.S.R,”” November 13 and 14.

Herman will speak at 7:30 p.m. November 13-in the 900 Room and
answer questions there the following morning at 10 a.m:

First acclaimed “‘the Lindbergh of Russia’ -for “ ability as.

an aviator and parachutist, Herman was later imp soned,,i ina
labor. camp, where he stayed alive eating rats and slugs.

j-After his release, bé was exiled to Siberia for a year, met his wife or

and fathered two. daughters. After petitioning the government
repeatedly, Herthan and’ his family were allowed to emigrate to
the United States,and now. ‘live in: suburban. Detroit, Michigan.

Herman wrote a book, Coming Out of the Ice, about his experiences.
William F. Buckley,’ Jr,, said of it, ‘Herman's tale is awful, and
heartening —awful that anyone should Se poco ae
heartening that hé. did and endured.”

Look Homeward, Angel: A Review
The young actors in Davidson ‘College's production of the’ play

Look Homeward, Angel add a definite strength to the overall .
interpretation. They effectively portray the unfortunate circumstances...

‘surrounding the Gant family in Ketti'Frings’ play based on the novel by
Thomas. Wolfe. This family stems from. an- overprotective, money-”
hungry, insecure mother, Eliza, and an often drunk, discontented father;

Ww.O. The children suffer because of their upbringing, ‘The daughter is
quiet and submissive, ‘trapped | “into the mold of ,her, mother.

A son, Ben, realizes the qualities of his parents. Finally, the
youngest, child, Eugene, realizes, ‘through Ben’s death, that his family is

keeping him from being true to himself and pushing him toward being a
-obody like his brother. >

Pat. Donley, playing Eugene Gant, is approximately the same age as
the. protagonist, and Laurie Campbell is only a few years younger than

her. character, Laura..As for W.O:'and Eliza, the fact that they are

played by college students (James Baskin ‘and Sheri Gravett) allows

‘ them to interpret their characters from the childten’s point of view. This

type of interpretation is, perhaps, better:than were the characters to be

, played by. someone older.

The play, for the most part, takes place at Dixieland, Eliza’s

‘boarding house. Dr: Joseph Gardner, technical: director, creates ‘avery

striking set for Dixieland, A. loose frameé'of the house. stands

On; stage. The presence ofthe walls, though physically non-

existent, is distinctly felt.

The; play starts somewhat. slowly: but the pace steadily | builds.
And by the third act; the actors and the audience are ‘Charged
with intense emotion. The play is complete with sound effects

of the nearby train, which brings in boarders. Also on. Stage is
_ & majestic, authentic-looking: angel which seems to ‘represent
: the self, the goal, cohol ial guia rio leas
ee od mete cles he
