Charlotte Symphony

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, directed by Leo Driehuys, will
end its 1979-80 season this Wednesday, April 9, with a concert that
includes violinist Eugene Fodor.

Fodor, who will join the Orchestra for two pieces, is one of the world’s
outstanding violinists. Winner of the 1972 International Paganini Violin
Competition and Moscow's Tschaikovsky International Competition,
Fodor has won acclaim in the music capital of the world.

The Concert*will begin at 8:15, tickets are available at $9-$5.50, $4.50
for students (call 332-6136 for more information.)

The Back Page

Spring Frolics

Spring is definitely in the air, and plans for the annual spring frolics
are being made. The weekend of April 18-19 promises to be a full
weekend, with a steady barrage of visiting musicians. That Friday
evening (April 18) female vocalist Carolyn Mas will perform on the
baseball field, along with the group Budge. Then on Saturday evening
(April 19), a dance will be held in the Gym with Bill Deal and the
Rondales, followed up by the well-known Tavares.

In addition to these four,.the Triangles will be performing in the 900
Room on both Friday and Saturday nights.

In the 900 Room

This weekend the 900 Room will be graced by some of Davidson’s more
talented students. Several students, including John Hartman, Betsy
Holton, David Lyons, and Rireten McDonald will be performing Friday

and Saturday nights.
T.J. Reddy

Local poet T. J. Reddy will be on campus Tuesday, April 8th for
a discussion of poetry with Maxine Kumin. A member of the Performing
Art Guild Ensemble, the Charlotte Three, and former director of the
Afro-American Culture Center, Reddy will also be autographing his
latest book, ‘‘Poems in One Part Harmony.’’ According to the author,
this work is a collection of ‘‘poems dealing with social issues, political
issues, and educational issues from a creative perspective.”

The discussion with Ms. Kumin will be at 10:00 a.m., in the Morrison
Room. Reddy is here as part of Prison Awareness Week.

Events on Campus

briday, April 4
8:00 & 10:30 Pop Film /v (R)

Sunday, April 6
11:00 a.m. Easter Mass _ | 900 Room
7:30 p.m. “Celebrate Life’’— Easter Musical

Monday, April 7
7:30 Maxine Kumin: Presentation of Vereen Bell Prize ceremony
900 Room

8:15 Senior Organ Recital: Roger Farabee DCPC

Emmy Knobloch is the number one women's tennis player.

(Trey Thies)
Wednesday, April 9 :
8:00 Fine Film: Zivg/ricd Love Sports
; i iruday, April 4
thursday, April 10 : :
: . z : : ; 2:00 Women’s Tennis: Guilford Home
7:30 Panel Discussion on prison existence 900 Room 3:00 Baseball: Juniste Home

Captain Robert Elliot, Prison Superintendant, will speak

saturday, April 5 :
All Day — Men’s and Women’s Track: wiborns Relays Home
3:00 Baseball: Junista ' Home
Sailing: Clemson

In Charlotte
With the vast amounts of nothing taking place on campus this’
time to check out the Charlotte

that city is not exactly Hotlanta, but are &
few bars where things do happen. A few of the hetter ones are:

Slug’s Oval Office—This is supposedly a classy place. It has been
described as having a quiet atmosphere . ‘with mellow music.

“vataclaty pak 6 ’ en
_ Sailing: Clemson Invitational Regatta, or Duke Points Regatta Away

|
te

jonny, April 7 bs :
' 2:00 Women's Tennis: High Point Away
3:00 Baseball: N.C. State Away

due nalay ; April 8: -
2:00 Men's Tennis: J.C: Smith ese Home
2:00 Worien’s Tenuie: Furman

~ Lanny s—This is the place for those who like to.go as they are: blue

Whixpers—Possibly the wildest singles bar in Charlotte. Go with an

5 pais cea » and anything can happen. (4321 Park.

Mortimer's Lounge—They. say this ove has the best music and the

3 - Weetwenaday’, Agel 9 : ait ; eae
SO Rane Tees UNCC tee - . Home.

thuenday, April 10

: , | 2:00 Women's Tennis: Peace te Pan
talent is always topnotch. (Registry Inn, 321 Woodlawn Rd.) ae eee Oe lee
Steak & Ale—For those who want to avoid the disco-type environment ga en ie cege aes Away -

entirely. A facsimile of an Old English Pub, this bar has a friendlier
‘than most. (4750 Albemarle Rd.)
Diamond Jim's—One of Charlotte’s more e ab bars, Dimond
Jim's caters to the wilder type. A game room provides diversion for the
inte beer drinking is the norm. (East Fourth St. and

A SS ETA ED |
