ts
=)

am

May 1, 198i—The Davidsonian—3_

Discriminatory admissions policy is neither moral nor practical

Davidson College has an admissions
policy which discriminates against wo-

men. It states that no more than roughly .

one third of the student body at any one
time shall be women. While the Admis-
sions Committee tries to evaluate men
and women according to the same
standards, this policy forces them to
rank-order men and women separately.
Approximately two thirds of all those
admitted to the College are selected from
the men’s list, and the remaining third
from the women’s. It sometimes hap-
pens as a result of this policy that
superior women aré excluded to allow for
the inclusion of inferior men. These
women are excluded for the simple
reason that they happen to have been
born female, much in the same way that
some men used to be excluded from
Davidson because they had been born
black.

I believe that the present admissions
policy is immoral and unconscionable. It
should be replaced at once with a simple
policy based essentially on merit which
does not discriminate in any way on the
basis of sex. The new policy should be
sex-wise quota free and essentially sex
blind. Howsoever desirable or worth-
while, relative to certain community
interests, it might be to have a student
mix of approximately 50% male and:
50% female, it would be unwise and
unfair to engineer such a ratio by having
an admissions policy with sex as a
relevant criterion. Women and men
should be rank-ordered together, with
admission to the College offered to those
who are most meritorious. To exclude
even one woman qua female in order to
admit just o1.e man qua male, or vice
versa, would be to commit an egregious
wrong. But not only is it wrong to have
an admissions policy which discri-
minates on the basis of sex, it is also
incompatible with the spirit of the
College’s Statement of Purpose. ‘‘David-
son is a college (which). . .emphasizes
those. . .activities which liberate man-
kind physically, mentally and spiri-
tually. . .(Its) primary purpose is to
develop persons of humane instincts

...and of Christian character...’’ How
can we in good conscience deliberately
discriminate against women and si-
multaneously stress our desire to li-
berate mankind, develop humane in-
stincts, and build a Christian character?

I do not wish to impugn the motives of

‘anyone who believes that Davidson

should have an admissions policy which
takes the sex of the applicant into
account. Indeed, good and well meaning
people are to be found on both sides of
this delicate and difficult moral issue.
Those who disagree with me should
never be accused of being irrational,
selfish or insensitive. They offer careful

and well thought out arguments
designed to justify their deep felt
conviction that it is not at all improper
to have a sex based admissions policy,
and that such a policy serves the
greatest possible good of the College.

“Lest we be accused therefore of unfairly

dismissing the position of those who
consider sex a relevant admissions
criterion, we need to carefully examine
their supportive arguments.

Perhaps the best and most frequently
heard argument in support of sex based
admissions criteria is the one of the
“institutional egoist.’’ The institutional
egoist measures the morality of a policy
in terms of its consequences for the
institution in whose behalf he is
speaking. If the consequences for the
institution are in the balance good, then
the policy should be adopted. If the
consequences for the institution are in
the balance bad, then the policy should
be rejected. The institutional egoist
refuses in principle to take into account
the consequences that a policy might
have for anyone outside his institution.

An institutional man can thereby

justify to himself a policy which harms

people if he understands that policy as
beneficial to his institution. ,

It is not my purpose here and nowto
philosophically assess institutiohal
egoism as a moral theory which guides
conduct. I happen to think it is false, but
shall assume for the sake of argument
that it is true. What reasons might an
institutional egoist at Davidson have for
rejecting an admissions policy based on
merit which does not discriminate on the
basis of sex? He might offer any or all of
the following reasons. Such a policy will:

1) seriously disrupt many of the
institutional structures presently in
place at Davidson, such as the athletic
program and dormitory space;

2) seriously affect the type of educa-
tion Davidson provides;

3) change the image of the College
away from a predominantly male school;

4) cause a decrease in alumni giving;

5) lead to a decrease in faculty
salaries;

6) eventually lead to financial ruin;

7) cause Davidson to become a
predominantly women’s college.

What are we to say about these
reasons? Well, 1) and 3) may be true, but
would they necessarily be bad for
Davidson? Perhaps a de-emphasis of
male dominated athletics would be good
for Davidson. The issue of dorm space is
irrelevant. As for Davidson’s male
image, most people agree that Davidson
has become a better school with a better
image since the admission of women
students. I think its image would be all
the higher were it known that the College
had a nondiscriminatory admissions
policy.

- Number 2) is probably false. Davidson
will remain a small, quality liberal arts
college whether or not it has.a sex blind
admissions policy. After all, it remained
a quality liberal arts college after blacks
and women were tirst admitted.

Now (4), (5) and (6) involve
judgments which, to the best
knowledge, are based on very scanty
evidence or none at all. Many people
believe (4), (5) and (6) seem to base their
belief on a mere gut feeling. Such

causal
of my

feelings are notoriously inadequate as
grounds for establishing causal judg-

~ ments. There is even some reason to

think that (4, (5) and (6) are as causal
judgments quite dubious. How would
one show, say, that a nondiscriminatory
admissions policy will cause the financial
ruin of Davidson?

(Space will not permit me to argue the
point here.)

The matter should at the least be
subjected to careful logical and empirical
scrutiny.

Number (7) also appears to lack
appropriate empirical support. What
scientific studies can be adduced to
confirm (7)? If anything, soft evidence
prima facie disconfirms (7). Simply look
at other small, quality, liberal arts
colleges that have gone coed in a
nondiscriminatory way. Have they be-
come predominantly women’s colleges?
It appears not. Traditionally, colleges
have been predominantly male or pre-
dominatly female only by design. Those
that haven’t been designed one way or
the other usually dovetail genetics and
turn out about 50% male and 50%
female.

The institutional egoist does not seem
able to justify his attempt to reject a
nondiscriminatory admissions policy for
Davidson. He might then consider the
possibility that Davidson College will
actually benefit by having a policy based
on merit which does not discriminate in
any way on the basis of sex.

Permit me to close with two questions.
What would happen to a faculty member
whose stated grading policy makes it
more difficult for a woman to get a good
grade than a man? Could he ever justify
his policy by claiming that it is for the
good of the College?

Dr. Robert Maydole is the author of a
proposal for equal access admissions
which the faculty will consider next
Tuesday (see pagel). In spite of numer-
ous requests to both students and
faculty members, the Davidsonian was
unable to obtain an article contradicting
Dr. Maydole’s position.

In American ‘“‘liberal’’ democracy it is
ironic that individual liberty is so easily
usurped for ‘‘social’’ or ‘‘moral’’ princi-
ples. Unfortunately, laws based on any
principle can be blunt instruments which
fail in-cases.requiring fine distinctions in
degree and intent. I submit that laws
forbidding euthanasia are dangerously
flawed due to an unjust application of
otherwise just principles.

The harm principle is a widely
accepted and applied basis of law, which
restricts individual liberty in order to
safeguard the health and interests of
others. I define harm as any action
which by commission or ommission
directly or indirectly causes damage to
another’s person, property, reputation
or social environment. Though my
conception of harm is broad its proper
application to law demands precision.

Murder is the most odious infringe-
ment on another’s liberty and person.
Secular laws against homicide are just-
ifiably based on the harm principle.
Should such laws encompass cases of
euthanasia? I think not. ;

By definition, euthanasia is ‘‘the act of
putting to death painlessly a person
suffering from an incurable and painful
disease or condition.”’ It is therefore an
act of mercy, a benefit to the afflicted. If
one refers to the definition of harm cited
above, a lack of action to deter pain is a
harm. Any law which prevents an active
alleviation of physi i
harm and runs counter to the very
principle which it is designed to uphold.
Seen in this light, euthanasia logically
suports the goals espoused by society

and the harm principle.

To illustrate my argument, let us
consider the case of a teenage girl who is
involved in a motorcycle accident. She
sustains massive head injuries and goes
into a coma. Her bodily functions are
artificially sustained by hospital ma-

fore the harm principle could be applied
two ways. A victim should not be forced
to suffer and the family should be
entitiled to the same reprieve. Ending
the life would bring the greatest benefit
to all parties.

There are many who would voice loud

Cogito ergo sum

Euthanasia

Michael Kehs

chinery. The question arises as to the
implications of taking her off the
life-support systems. The doctors con-
sider the high probability of brain
damage, if not paralysis, and contend
that the action would be passive
euthanasia. The state, however, calls it
manslaughter.

In this case there are two valid
arguments in favor of the doctor’s
position. First, the life-support systems
do not give the girl any more liberty;
they merely increase her power. To
“unplug” her would not deprive her of
the liberty to live, it would only deprive
her of some ‘“‘power’’ to live (no pun
intended). If the girl does not have the
ability to live without the inventions the
question of liberty is nonsense, because
liberty presupposes ability. Second, in
consider the tremendous economic costs
of hospitalization which can destroy a
family’s welfare, to say nothing of the
great emotional stress involved. There-

objections to my views. I will consider
their cases and then look to the
misconceptions on which they are based.
The first’ group comprises those who
consider the ‘‘right to life’’ to be
inalienable. They contend that no will,
contract, or request can waive that
right. Therefore, euthanasia becomes
premeditated murder. This objection
appeals not to the harm principle, but to
the principle of morality. If the separ-

ation of church and state is to be .

maintained, moral principles should not
be intermingled with secular legal
codes —unless the principles are uni-
versally agreed upon. Murder is a crime

because it causes harm. This of course

coincides with moral teachings. Euthan-
asia, as proven above, does not qualify

as a harm and should not be outlawed. .

Any moral considerations reside in the
domain of personal liberty.

A second objection tries to establish
that the taking of life, no matter what
the reason, cheapens the value of life. To

the proponents of this view I ask, ‘‘is
there any intrinsic value in a life that no
one considers worth living?’’ Would not
such an existence be torture? Does not
torture strike at the roots of civilized
behavior as much as the intentional
taking of life? This view is self contradic-
tory in as much as it advocates harm as a
means to prevent harm.

The last objection is the most logical.
It questions the individual’s ability to
accurately perceive his condition. Per-
haps he will make a wrong judgment or
decision. Could not an.afflicted person be
coerced by pain to wish his own death?
Similarly, could the physician be wrong
in his assessment of the patient’s
condition?

To this objection I have two re-

_ sponses. First, the individual may feel

that his choices are limited but that
death is the best option. No one can
doubt the sincerity of a decision of that
magnitude. Second, physicians are not
infallible, but their advice is considered
expert in a court of law. There is no
reason to believe that a legislature could
_make a better decision. Instead of laws
against euthanasia the law-makers
should be concerned with ways to
prevent abuses of it.

If the ‘‘right to life’ is a topic for legal
debate, I submit that the “right to die”’
deserves Jegal reflection.

Michael Kehs is a junior political
science major from Atlanta, Georgia.
This article is adapted from an article
Mr. Kehs wrote for Philosophy Professor
Lance Stell’s Social and Political Phi-

losophy class.

