Coach Hus-

' sey’s vine-

- yards. vee
Page 15.

. Artists’s Series

Night's Dream. —

presentsA fy
Midsummer.

Page 11.

Volume LXXI, Number 9 -

ne The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College _...__, Friday 4 December 1981

Student opinion

Analysis of D' Kazee’s class’s poll |

“Would you like to see sororities instituted at Da-
vidson? What influence did: Davidson’ s. emphasis on
athletics have on your decision to enroll here? Do you

believe most people report suspected ‘Honor Code vio-

lations?”

These were three of the questions posed to David-
son students by D" Thomas Kazee’s Public Opinion

elass this fall. The class focused on the technical, skills.

involved in polling and presented a twenty- question
‘Survey to.a representative segment of the student popu-
lation in order to put the skills into experience.

Fifty-six percent of the men surveyed would like to’
see a sorority and fraternity bid system instituted at the.
college, while 62 percent of the women polled said —

they would not like such a system. This, might suggest
College women. feel threatened by bid systems, and

that they are hesitant about the exclusiveness inherent .

in such systems:

Thirty-one. percent of the women were undecided
about questions concerning athletics: This could show
that Davidson. women are generally insufficiently
aware of the College’s athletic program to answer
questions concerning it confidently. - Seventy per-
cent of the students agreed that the Honor Code works

,well and needs no major revisions. However, 22 per-

cent of the men and and 33 percent of the women polled
said that they-were not confident that-all honor viola-

tions are reported. Further, 35 percent ’felt the Honor.

Code is enforced inconsistently. A.minority of stu-

By Elizabeth Smiley ’ 84.

dents seems to think the system needs to be checked
and scrutinized. It seems that many Davidson students
both suport and question the Honor System.

Although Dean Terry expressed an. interest in re-
ceiving the results, he has not yet seen them. The re-
sults of the survey will be available to all interested stu-
dents administration, staff, and faculty.

D' Kazee stressed that the survey was a class exer-
cise in the: mechanics of data-collection, and that the
class did not-intend to make any social commentary.
He said that any interpretaion by the class would be in-
herently subjective. . :

[jump to page 3]

