Freshman Advisors

Three teams of hall counselors run

Lo
Three teams have signed up fo run for freshman ad-
visors in Tuesday’s election. All six candidates are hall
counselors, and said they are interested ‘in maintaining
contacts with the-hall counselor program and increas-
ing the’ visibility of the freshman advisors among the
freshman class next year.

The three teams are Juniors David Carr and John.

Mann; Reaves Robinson and Gordon Turnbull; and
Amy Crittenberger and Mike Mason. Jeff summed up
the candidates’ views when tie said, “I think anybody
on the list could do a good job.”

The College Hall Counselor’s handbook sets forth
the responsibilities of Freshman advisers. They in-
clude serving on the hall counselor selection commit-
tee, assisting hall counselors and advising them in
strengthening their programs and activities. They also
work with the Dean of Students’ office to plan and con-
duct the hall counselor training program and Freshman
orientation. According to the handbook they should try
to initiate “as much interaction between the freshman
class and the upperclassmen [as possible] in order to
promote a closer sense of community,” and integrate
“the freshmen into Davidson.” The advisers are also
responsible for assisting the Dean of Students’ office in

evaluating the hall counselor program.

Dean of Students Will Terry said Freshman advis-
ers are i
lor selection and training a student process instead of
an administrative one. Dean Terry said Freshman advi-
sors need experience, energy, enthusiam, ideas, and
“an ability to encourage people when they get de-
pressed. ”

- Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross said that
while there is no rule concerning the sex of the Fresh-
man Advisors, usually a man and woman run together
because the hall counsellors they advise are both males
and females.

John Mann and David Carr said they will be able to
do the job as well as a male-female team could. “I don’t
think that will affect us at all. There’s nothing in this
job which requires any type of sex role, and we’re not
going to be living inthe Freshmen dorms or anything,”
John said.

He also said the freshman advisors should be more
visible than they have in the past. Both John and Dave
are premedicine majors.

Amy Crittenberger said Freshman advisors play an
important role in selecting hall counselors, and,“being
hall counselors this year, we are pretty well qualified to

rtant because they help make hall counse-

make those judgments.”

Agreeing with John, Mike Mason added, “In the
past the position hasn’t been utilized to the extent that it
would have been. Direct contact between the Fresh-
man Advisors and the freshmen hasn’t been so close as
we would like to make it.” Amy suggested that Fresh-
man Advisors should attend more hall meetings than
they do.

Amy majors in political science, and Mike is an
English major.

“I enjoyed my experience as Hall Counselor this
year and have learned a lot from it, and would enjoy
working with hall counselors next year,” Reaves Ro-
binson said. She also said “I think people with hall
counselor experience are one of the most valuable re-
‘sources they can have, and I enjoyed working with the
Dean of Studernt’s office.”

Gordon Turnbull, added that the hall counselor has
one of the most important jobs at the College because,
the better the hall counselor is, the better prepared the
freshmen are for college life. “It’s the difference be-
tween making Freshmen feel a part of the College com-
munity and letting them slip through the cracks.”

By Tony Dick 85.

Synco starts development
$100,000 homes to be built north of Griffith Street

The Synco Company. plans to begin construction of
housing units at its Davidson Landing Development
early in January, 1982, according to Synco project
officer John Yelberton. He said the company hopes to
have the first twenty units completed by late spring.

Synco, which’ builds extensively in. downtown

Charlotte, plans to develop the lakeside land north of —

Griffith Street, the road that leads to I-77. Davidson.
“Langin’s former name was the Turtle Rock Cove
Development.

The ‘first phase of: the development will include .

construction of 39 “patio houses” on 36-acres,M' Yel-

berton said. Each. unit will sell for approximately

$100,000. Synco originally planned to build 150 hous-
ing units on that same tract of land. or

Patio houses are free-standing single-family homes
separated by courtyards. Because they do not qualify
as normal single-family homes, developers must
aquire a special use permit before building them in Da-

vidson or within one mile of Davidson’s city limits, ac-

cording to M™ Annamarie Burts, Chairwoman of the
Davidson Planning Board. The town granted Synco a
special use permit for the first twenty houses. The rest

of the 39 houses in the first phase of the development

will not be eppnnved: until the sewer line’ is complete,
she said.

According t to M Yelberton, the seca use permit

also provides for narrower roads than would have been
built under existing zoning ordinances. He said that
Synco planned the roads “top keep in character with
existing Davidson roads.” Present zoning-ordinances
require roads wider than most of Davidson’s because
the old ones were changed to. reflect a state guideline
which was adapted after Davidson’s roads were built.
Synco special use: permits make several esceptions to
the present requirements.

Synco will contruct 24 boat slips on the 400 acre
lake near the development, said M‘ Yelberton. Synco
will include in the Davidson Landing’s Homeowner’s
document a requirement that boat motors cannot ex-

_ ceed ten horsepower. se originally planned to put

in 72 slips.

Before construction can begin, Synco. must either
complete roads, sewers, and utility hookups, or put up
a bond to guarantee sufficient funds to complete them,
M* Burts said. “If the project is abandoned, this will
make sure that Davidson will not have a lot of mud and
half-paved roads,” she explained.

M” Burts noted “considerable concern or maybe
even fear on the part of Davidson residents” regarding

the new development. She said Synco is “concerned
about the quality of life at Davidson.” She predicted

that the development will not have much effect upon

~ the proces of existing Davidson houses.

The Lake Norman Company, founded by Synco, is
also interested in developing the corridor of land adja-
cent to Griffith Street. The Lake Norman 1 Company
bought land on Griffith street with the intention of sell-
ing it to clients in light industry. According to Mr.
Cuirrie, Dr. Spencer and the trustees of the College’s
money invested $25,000 in the company “as a way to
promote the orderly growth of the Davidson Commu-
nity” as well as to make a good investment.

The Lake Norman Company and Synco are closely
related, although according to M‘ Yelberton, the Lake
Norman Company is not a subsidiary of Synco. M™
Burts said that the original special use permit for Da-
vidson Landing was issued in the name of the Lake
Norman Company. Several Davidson alumni work for
the company, and Synco’s President if alumnus P.
Reitzel Snider.

The College is also trying to promote development
on Griffith Street, according to M‘ Currie. The College
has been trying to sell its five acres of land on the north-
east corner of I-77 and Griffith’ Street to a firm which
would build a motel “the quality of a Holiday Inn.”
This would provide visitors with nearby lodging when
the Guest House if full, Currie said.

By Pete Gulyn “83.

pee! | oe DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981
