_RAVIDSONIAN

Friday 18’ September 1981

J ball team loses three i in term paper sham

by Steve Soud’84

The troubled Davidson basketball office was still
reeling from. its coaching changeovers last spring.
Matters worsened as three players dropped out over the
summer. Junior reserve forward John Corso and junior
power forward Rich DiBenedetto left because of per-
sonal reasons. Freshman. guard John Gullickson,
staunchly denying an earlier honor conviction by the
Honor .Council and fighting it in. the Mecklenburg
County District Court, admitted buying a term paper
and turning it in as his own work. Corso and DiBene-
detto were allegedly involved in the term paper scandal
as well.

Gullickson, presently attending night classes at
Queens, will return to Davidson in the spring. “I just
followed the wrong people, which is easy for a fresh-
man to’do,” the Southern Conference All-Freshman
selection said. “I really think Davidson has a lot to of-
fer, so I’m going to return. I’m really anxious to play
for Coach Hussey,” he added.

Gullickson was one of the prime reasons the up-
start Wildcats finished last season in a three way tie for
first place in the Southern Conference. The hot-shoot-
ing Illinois freshman, who hit over ninety percent from
the free throw line and led the nation in that category
going into the last two weeks of the season, came just-
three shots short of the number needed to qualify him
as the leading foul shooter in the NCAA. He brought.
his version of river boat gambling to the basketball
court as he cheated the break quite successfully, hitting
key layups and clutch 18-foot jump shots: Although
first-year Coach Bobby Husséy plans on running a dif-
ferent style offense, Gullickson’s accurate shot will be
sorely missed.

The Davidsonian reached Corso, who is attend-
ing St. Johns University in New York. Corso, who had
earlier denied any connection with the scandal, refused
to discuss the matter, saying, “It’s history. . .That was
a long time ago.” Corso’s chief role on the team was
coming off the bench, primarily in ball control situa-
tions.

Davidson’s only nationally-ranked _

team

by Jim Northrup ‘82
Field hockey, or any reputable sport, can only be
enjoyed by knowing something of how the game is

played. The following is a spectator’s introduction: to_

this game..

Field hockey originated as a men’s sport and is
still commonly played by men in parts of the United
States and in a variety of. other countries. The team is
composed of eleven players, including the goalkeeper,
and a.game lasts for two 35 minute periods.

The game is in many respects similar to soccer,
especially i in the stamina necessary to play .a winning
game. The, traditional .women’s -uniform. include: a

skirt, butthat by no means makes it less difficult forthe:

women to keep up the grueling soccer-like’pace: The
5.5 ounce ball is moved with a one-sided stick. The
right-handside of ahockey stick is rounded and cannot
be used:to hit the ball, so field hockey. dribbling is.no-
_ thing: like:the back-and-forth dribbling motion of ice
hockey~'] , it is pulled and hit along the players
right-hand: side, ‘with the player bent slightly over it. In

order'to’ move to the right, the stick. is rotated 180 de-

gees inthe player’ $s hand. This is called'reverse sticks.
iy who has watched the game is aware that

field hockey: i is a. game of. frequent violations. Former-

ly, .a.:player, could not: raise the stick. above her
shoulders: This, year,, however, the AIAW has.done
away with.that rule inorder to reduce the number of vi-

ol ns.and add to the flow of the game, thus making it

, attractive to.spectators.. Another. frequent viola- .
tion sadvancing: Advancing occurswhen a player lets

+h tis or her body, especially the feet. Ob-

Shoulders are directly in the path of an oppo-

with the ball. ‘As in soccer, field oekey also has |

Ant eld hockey, all shots ciathetaate within the
shooting circle to be counted as a goal; Playing defense | go
-in the: back field are the sweepers. Directly in frontof =}

these players are the halfs, the links, and finally the for-

wards. Each team. uses its own formation. evening

japon. Abe-. strengths, and. weaknesses, of the
‘members. .

ee ethan di feat iy Aas oe

‘youlike, to take it'as a P.E. course:in the spring: .

DiBenedetto will finish his schooling at the Uni:
versity of Wisconsin at Eau Claire. The Davidsonian
was unable to reach DiBenedetto himself, and his par-
ents claimed that he refused.any comment. DiBenedet+
to, who would have been a senior this ‘year, led the
team in almost all offensive categories across the last
two seasons.’ In 1979-80, he averaged 20 points, per
game, and his 63% shooting accuracy was ranked sixth
in the nation. Many people considered last season an
“off” year for the talented New Jersey native, but when;
he was on he was: unstoppable and dominated several
games. '

Although all three players fit into the. Biedenbach:
basketball scheme well, there were questions. as to}
where’they would fit into Hussey’s transition game.:
DiBenedetto and Gullickson were notoriously average
on defense, Gullickson primarily because he was busy
cheating the break and DiBenedetto apparently be-
cause of conflicts with ex-Coach Eddie Biedenbach.
Corso does not intend to play for St. John’s, but Di-’
Benedetto is slated to play for Eau Claire.

field hockey—gears up 1 for fall

a another frequent violation, is, sled when. a.

ol ~T SIDELINE
oo | —

GOAL LINE 60Yds.
LINE

CENTRE.

100 Yds.

oa

!

g!

pabo nnn 99 agate ~ oe

by Jim Northrup ‘82
Davidson’s field hockey team scrimmaged
.. twice in Boone this past Sunday, pling the dou-
, bleheader.
_: » ‘The women downed Wake Forest. aDivision
. I-team, 2-1..In the. first of the two 20-minute
halves, Wake. Forest went up. 1-0, then Sopho-
ey. Hall (a returning left wing with
i three, goals. last season). tied the game up. David- .
. on Freshman Lou Hamilton scored the winning

a “We playcdsectty. well for the first tine out,” .
~ Said hockey coach Dee Mayes. “We played on as-
~ troturf. ‘That makes for faster passes, - but also
makes the ball hard to control.”
a8 Appalachian, aDiyision Iteam, defeated Da-
” yidson 3-1 in the second scrimmage of the day,
~ with Sophomore Mavin) Martin scoring Da

vid-

Watching the Cats ©

son's’ only: sil’ “We're disappointed t to: oiiiee any |
game, but they are, Division I, and they’ ’ve been in
school practicing f forthree: weeks already,” "Coach
Maye? explained. *

‘Division I teams offer their players full schiol-
arships: Most Division If teams,” though not ‘Da-
vidson, offer partial scholarships...

- Generally,..Davidson’s defense looks solid,
buit the loss of forward Carol Heppner to a knee in-
_juty has forced Coach Mayes to move defensive -
players into offensive: ‘positions. These’ changes,
combined with a young team, mean that Davidson
will have to rely more on skill than.experiences ~~ |
Davidson will scrimmage at home ‘on Satur-:
day morning at 9:00 against archrival Pfeiffer.
The regular season begins. on Tuesday at High
Point and will continue on Thursday afternoon at

4:00 when Davidson hosts UNC — Greensboro.

