Friday 25 September 1981

‘DAVIDSONIAN

page 13

The Doughboys introduce the Slimshaf ts

(Reprinted from Highlights for Children)
Here we are.again with the only. article that an-
yone reads.. We weren’t included in last week’s
Druggadsonian ‘because we had not gotten back to
_ campus yet from our parking spaces in the new Da-
. vidson satellite lot in: Myers Park. It seems the han-
dicapped faculty lot in front of PiKA was full with
quadraplegic economics professors. We spent this
_ Sutnmer looking. for replacements for the departed
_ Brick Brothers. After interviewing thousands of ap-
. plicants we. did find two ex-Libyan jet pilots finish-

- ing up a.ct idence course in: Sidewinder mis-
“sil evasion maneuvers. Those turned down .in-
~ cluded. Rodney Dangerfield ; Cyrus Varice, Barry

~ Mack, and The Chairme of the Board.

‘Davidson was the object of many chaiges this
summer. We waritéd to get to the bottom of things so
we interviewed deranged pedophile Grover Meates.
DB.& Ss: What do you think of the changes in.the
campus that. you directed? -
cM: I didn’t do a geod -job. I should have done

something with a little more- imagination. We went .

with our trump card brick sidewalk once too often. I
apologized to the students but I’Il make it up to them
later on when we build the new. Gymnasium. — -

DB & SS: Why are there spaces for handicapped fac-
ulty members? And why would you make make a
handicapped professor park on Patterson Court? Are
there special places for black Jewish. faculty
members? Can the laundry workers park on the 10

Doughboys and the Slimshafts |

new speed bumps since they’re painted yellow?
GM: Yes.

The new format of the Davidsonian was un-
veiled last week and it looked like a cross between
War and Peace and True Grit. There’s better stuff to
read in the Rare Book Room. Editor John Semen
plans on doing an in-depth report on police brutality
in the South Azores, and the football teams’ entire
playbook will be revealed in next week’s issue. Also
included will be a pin-up of the Coppertone: Aill-
Stars headed by David Carr, Cliff Tribus, Arabella
Malone, Joe Albino and Casper the Ghost, other-
wise known as Ken Krieg.

For a bit of dessert, our weekly multiple choice
auiz:

1) What kind of man reads The Davidsonian?
a) Male Jews in Argentina.
b) Ernest and Julio Gallo.
c) Stanby Seigel.
d) Siman’s mother.

2) What is the dreaded disease that recently bit Da-
vidson?
a).Herpes.

b) Contact Dermatitis.

c) Anorexia.
. d) The Rei Scare.

3) Who will win the game ball this week?
a) Fannie and Mable.
¢) Mercedes T. Oglukian.
d) The Geach.
e) Chairmen of the Board.

4) Who will eat in Richards and Bailey now?
a) Wendell Washington and Sandy Camie-
gie.

b) Handicapped Faculty.
¢) Phi-Delt:groupies.
d) Chairmen of the Board.

5) What do you bring to a SPE party?
a) Your own fat girl or rent one at the door.
b) Your-own parachute.
c) Your own porta-john.
d) Your American Express Card.
e) All of the above.

_ Later. We're off to catch a flickerball game be-
tween the Chairmen of the Board and the handi-
capped faculty. Next week we’ll have those results
as well as other flickerball news and some abuse of
Davidson coeds (other than freshwomen).

cup. THE COUPON A AND SAVE!

892-741 5

Buy Two Tekan
-Cheeseburgers -
Get One FREE!

a aeons |

Hy evens raceive, ‘one FREE .
| Texas. hi hn cosagall for”.
ns ca st

VALID thaOCT: a Hee

1! Buy 7 Two: Bacon i
_Cheeseburgers
‘Get One ENGET .

coo in this.

't and. tecelve one free }
owing hapten gal icf Hi

vat the Village Bias raffle! =.
To be held at noon Oct. 24 ‘Homecoming

__ Register each time you visit.
No purchase. necessary

ue. WEYL AGE STORE

No ‘SOUTH MAIN sT. — DAV osS0n - €1z- “44d

