> - guiler, willing to swindle shamelesly. to get ahead. Here i isan excerpt from
something he once wrote about pipes S Honor Code: —

The Honor Syste works because the uel this college’ make it work... .
[But], we must temper our idealism and face certain facts.: Although the -

- members of the College might co-exist in an atmosphere’ of mutual respect
for the Honor System, ‘there are others who do not share these values con-
stantly coming onto the campus. Herein lies my warning: Davidson’ s Honor
System must not. be. permitted to blind'us to the harsh. realifies of the real
world. We must hot allow our idealism, and the apparent effectiveness of the
Code in certain areas of campus life, to lull us into. a falseisense of'security.. :

_ .. The Honor System. is understandably a source of pride | heré.at Davidson’

. andi it should continueto be so. The atmosphere of honesty and trust that pre-
vails among members of the College is wonderful. But we must keep in mind
the fact that trust at Davidson i well spell foolishness i in the real world.

ie

These are rédlly his donds.

After I confronted him, he would dernately. plead with ‘me not to spoil

his path to riches and glory (I believe he.intends to bea United States Sena-

tor one day) and threaten me (“I can’t follow you atqund witha gun for the

rest of my life... .”).

_ [have not described the student’ 's character out of. “spite; I have done so
to make it clear that I was plain frightened dealing with him. Given a good
opportunity, he would not hesitate, I think, to take revenge against me.
When he came to Davidson at the end ot the summer to negotiate a settle-
ment, I was too wary of him to press him to accept any punishment. M' Cur-
‘rie and I met with him and decided he should repay exactly what he stole

without interest or punitive payments.- He paid the bulk of what he owed

immediately; he agreed to repay the remainder. soon afterwards. (I billed

him for the final $150 he owed a week ago.) I informed the Dean of Stu-

dents when the student would come to Davidson, but the Dean did not at-
tend the meeting.

Soon after the meeting I told the Bein that I wanted to nical to one of |

the College’s lawyers about the case to make sure that I was on,safe legal
ground. He scoffed at my request. and only afer repeated demands and
weeks of waiting did he allow me to telephone one of the College’s lawy-

- ers. The lawyer said he guessed I prob .. ably could be sued if I spoke about |

‘the case too often, but that he wasn’t much on libel and slander. At least one
can rest assured that, since my conversation with the lawyer lasted less than

_ five minutes, I did not run up the College’s legal expenses.
I also asked the Dean if the Honor Council could take some action
_against the student —a censure or something like that..He replied that there

was no precedent for convicting a student of an Honor Code violation after

a student’ $s graduation. No 0 Pregenent

Looking back, I cannot botieia the eagemess. swith wwliich the Dean pro-

nounced this case to.be outside the Honor Code’s jurisdiction. Does the Ho-

., nor-Code fail, to have. any force against guilty students the moment they .

- graduate? To say yes is to cynically devalue the Honor Code: it is to say that
the Honor Code has meaning my for those students pnerny enrolled i in

. the Honpe: System is.

Davidson but is some anomaly ‘of college life idee hae:
. Tam not advocating punishments for students whose transgressions are

. not discovered until after they graduate, and I am not interested in seeing

the student I caught punished. What I am concerned about is our resolve to
make the Honor Code work — all the time. How can we take pride in an

» Honor System that is completely impotent when a guilty student — a. possi-

$ mis-
ity of

ble felon — is awarded a dipoloma without ever so much as having his
deeds condemned? Retribution is $ not important. Upholding the inte

Looking back, F-also can’t believe the lack of support I received from
anyone who had anything officially to do with the Honor Code. The only

College officers who worked with me were M“** Currie!and Davidson.

Both are men of i integrity, but their jobs concern managing finances, not en-
forcing the Honor. Code. ;

The Honor Code requires not only that one refrain from lying, cheating,
and stealing but also that one turn in those who do. I was obliged to turn in

‘the student I caught, and I was willing to put myself on the line in the pro-

cess. I think any student would have done so in such asituation. But the stu-

dents’ duty to turn-in violators i is meaningless without. support from the

Dean’ s Office.

It comes down to a “question of stamina and courage. Are we willing to
commit the resources to ensure that the Honor System works as it should?
— even when the case is takes a long time to adjudicate? — even when the
issues are complex? — even when legal complications might arise? The
Honor System does not work by magic or faith but by our resolve to.see it
work even in the most difficult circumstances.
—John Siman, editor

phe

avi VIDSONIAN / Friday ‘ becainber ‘ie : oo! ae
