Friday 25 September 1981

~

. 10: 00 AM _ Conversation Pit (Also 2:00 — 4:00
and 12:00 —2:00 in the Commons), Virgil Flood’ 80will -
be talking about marketing and'salés:work. vine now
working in marketing with Xerox.

1:00 pm wpDAv Classical Requests.

4: 30 pm Clemson; South Carolina. Field hock-

ey versus Clemson. -

6:00 8:00 PM WDAV. Paganini:
Quartet Num’ 7 in E Major for Violin, Viola, Guitar,
and Cello. Franck: Prelude, Chorale and Fugue. Vival-

di: Concerto in C for: Oboe, Glazounov: Concerto.in A.

minor, Op* 82.

7:00. PM] Worship ‘service in the Morrison
Room.

8:00

ic. Zubin

M1 ‘WDAV. The New York Philharmon-
hta leads the Philharmonic in this week’s

all-orchestra program. Dvof4k’s Carnival Overture op-
ens the program, which continués with the Symphony in
Three Movements of Igor Stravinky

1:00 pm woav Ciassical Requests.

4:00 pm _ Morrison Room. Job Targeting Semi-

nar — another part of the Cercers Programs symposium |

for seniors soon to enter “the real world.”

DAVIDSONIAN

6:00 — 8:00 pm woav. Hummel: Septet

in D minor, Op* 74. Leeillet: Sonata in G Major for Rec-

order and Continuo, Op* 1, Num 3. Chabrier: the ten
“Piéces Pittoresques.” Hindemith: Symphonic Met-
amorphosis of Themes by Carl Maria von Weber.

8: 00 PM: WDAV. The Milwaukee Symphony
Orchestra. Lukas Foss leads this all-Beethovesxe@neert,
which marks the opening night of the MSO’s 1981 — 82
season from UileinsHall. The program: “Wellington’s
Victory,” Op® 91, andthe Symphony Num‘ 9 in D mi-
nor, Op* 125, the “Choral” Symphony.

8:15 pm Hodson Hall. Chamber Music Series.
Sylvan Wood Quintet. The program includes Quintet,
Op* by Carl Nielson; Five Pieces for Oboe, Clarinet,

r

- Bassoon by Jacques Ibert; and works by Sweelinck and

Anton Reicha. Free admission.

Hear the Sylvan
Wood Quintet
Wednesday night in
Hodson. Hall. 8:15 pm.
Free admission.

10:00 am chambers Gallery. Coffee and
Cokes. Meet the Davidson College faculty one-to-one.

10:30 am president Spencer’s office. Open
meeting with College President Samuel Spencer.

4:00 pm Field hockey with Appalachian State’
University at home. See the _ rest-ranked Davidson
team romp again.

. 8:00 PM WDAV. Cleveland Orchestra Con-

cert. Guest Conductor and pianist Christoph Eschen-
bach.

ARMY ROTC.

vas College military science
LEARN WHAT
IT TAKES TO LEAD courses are courses in leader-

For More Information Contact:

ship development. You learn
techniques involved in the
management of resources.
Techniques that are applica- .
ble to any management job.

Another important leadership
characteristic is interpersonal
relationships. Things are

~ accomplished by.people and
the kind of relationship.estab-

lished goes a long way in
determining your success as
a leader..Whether you intend
to become a manager ina
military or civilian. career,
Army. ROTC can give you a
competitive edge.

Don’t wait until after col-
lege to get practical manage-
ment experience. Add leader-
ship to yourclass schedule
now.
