After the Stockman squall

_ver the next two months, before it publishes its
O next budget, the Reagan administration is
going to have to make a series of painful choi-

ces. The imbroglio over David Stockman has not creat-
ed those choices, but it certainly sharpens them. In that

famous magazine article, M‘ Stockman, who runs the
office of Management and Budget, is quoted as saying

that the Reagan economic program hasn’t worked. The |

fundamental cause of the administration’s discomfort
is not that he said it, but that it’s obviously true.

It is disingenuous to argue, as do some of the dwin-
dling band of supply-siders, that their program only
went into effect at the beginning of the fiscal year on
Oct. 1. The whole idea was that the announcement of a.
coming tax cut last winter would set off a gigantic burst
of buisness expansion in an anticipation of it. Not so in-
cidentally, most of the buisness tax cuts are in fact ret-
roactive to last January. But, as you have probably no-
ticed, the present economic situation cannot be de-

from the Washington Post

scribed as a boom.

A president can carry Congress with him, as M'
Reagan did earlier this year, only when he is following
a plan that promises to work. If M' Reagan stubbornly
sticks with the original supply-side theory, and seals it
into the 1983 budget next January, Congress will take
as something other than a reasonable regard. for con-
sistency. Congress will take it as a refusal to accept
realities that all to visible from the Capitol.

With that, M' Reagan would lose all initiative in the
budget and economic policy. Perhaps it’s happening
already. Last week S“" Slade Gorton of Washington, a
Republican member of the Budget Committee, said,
“The flag of leadership is passing from the White
House to this committee.”

Why there’s life
after David Stockman

of Management and Budget, clearly has

ended his usefulness to the Reagan adminis-
tration. If the President weren’t such a nice guy he
would have accepted M' Stockman’s resignation last
week and gotten on with the buisness of the govern-
ment.

That is not to say there was anything evil or even
wrong in what M' Stockman did. The long series of in-
terviews with the Atlantic Monthly showed, if any-
thing, that M'Stockman is a much better economist
than anyone realized. But he is also a much less adept
politician than most of us thought.

Supply-side economics means many things to
many people, and the so-called supply-side economists
often bicker among themselves. It starts with a fact, not
a controversy. The U.S: has been lagging behind sev-
eral other industrial nations in the growth of productiv-
ity. No one can argue about that; the figures are there
for everyone to see.

D avid Stockman, the brilliant head of the Office

Large numbers of economists and buisnessmen go -

on from that fact to argue that the reason for low prod-
uctivity gains is that Americans are overtaxed. The
money that goes to Uncle Sam in taxes can’t be invest-
ed in new plants and equipment that would make
American buisness more efficient.

Well, there is controversy about that point. Some
analysts point out that more than 20% of the nation’s
industrial plant stands idle and contend that this shows
there is a limited need for new investment. But there is
something like majority agreement that a step-up in
new investment would be good for what ails us. Some
of the idle plant, it’s recognized, is simply inefficient.
New technology creates a need for new spending on fa-
cilities if the U.S. is to keep up with its copetition
abroad.

But how do we encourage that new investment? R®
Jack Kemp of New York in an early supply-side bill
several years ago proposed to encourage investment di-

from the Wall Street Journal

rectly with special tax concessions to buisness. But
special tax breaks for buisness are awfully hard to sell
unless they’re accompanied by substantial tax breaks
for individuals, especially low- and middle-income in-
dividuals.

What gradually evolved from such thinking was
the so-called Kemp-Roth approach: cutting individual
tax rates by 10% a year for three years, with the top rate
reduced from 50% to 70%. It was to provide something
for everybody, so it was easy to couple with it special
tax benefits for buisness investment.

But there were a lot of old fuddy-duddies in Con-
gress and elsewhere who thought that such sweeping
tax cuts would mean huge budget deficits for three or
four years, or until the increases in investment had a
chance to generate new taxable income.

What to do? Well it was a job that required a little
sales engineering.

There were supply-siders around who thought that

the Kemp-Roth tax cuts would stimulate so much addi- ’
. tional work and investment so fast that budget deficits —

would not be a major worry. A few even argued that
deep cuts in federal spending would not be necessary to
make satisfactory progress toward getting the budget
under control.

The real extremists, however, never had a handle
on policy. Suuply-siders within the administration,
such as Treasury Under Secretary Norman Ture and M'
Stockman, from the start were certain that deep budget
cuts were absolutely esssential.

But what everyone was playing with here were
people’s expectations. The reason for planning annual
tax cuts for three straight years was to encourage the
public to do some long-term planning. The hope was
that citizens, confronted by a government bound. and

_To recapture the intiative, M' Reagan will have to
drop the more mystical, and incredible, aspects of the
original program. He will have to base his budget on
economic forecasts that people in Congress, and
around the country, can accept as reasonable. He will
have to lower the revenue forecasts, and raise the defic-
it forecasts, to levels consistent with present expe-
rience. He will have to resolve the basic and damaging
inconsistency between his goals for higher growth and
for lower inflation next year. He will have to present a
coherent strategy for dealing with a recession of unex-
pected severity.

If M‘ Reagan can’t bring himself to construct a
budget that the rest of the country cosiders realistic, ac-
tual authority over the budget will rapidly migrate in
the general direction that S* Gorton suggests. In that
case, it would make much difference who's director of
the Office of Management and Budget.

»

determined to beat inflation and assured that they could
keep more of their income, would indeed work harder
and invest more.

The numbers that went with this were never any
more solid than the planners’ hopes. With hindsight
it’s easy to wish that the administration had been more
candid, less optimistic. Many economists who fully
supported the Reagan program from the start were
deeply skeptical of the forecasts that accompanied it.

It’s easy to suspect that the optimistic forecasts
were formulated in part to sell the program to Con-
gress. It would be hard for a lawmaker to vote aginst a
tax cut if he believed that the cut would not mean big-
ger budget deficits and more inflation just ahead.

Whether or not salesmanship was the aim, the ad-
ministration’s chickens have come home to roost. It is
not enough to argue, as M’ Stockman apparently did in
the Atlantic reviews, that Congress Christmas-treed
the administration tax bill. Of course it did. But the ad-
ministration tax cuts were somewhat reduced and
somewhat delayed, too. It may be that the size of the
eventual tax cut wasn’t much different from what the
administration asked. :

Excessively optimistic forecasts are hardly new in
government, but he Reagan administration had seemed |
to promise us something better. The administration in
the past week has made-a good start toward clearing the
air, toward providing the sort of candor that would
have been better from the first.

What the country needs now is more of the same.
An essential spokesman for sucha policy is the head of
the Office of Management and Budget; David Stock-
man, who evidently realized that the official forecasts
were wrong months ago but kept quiet in public, has
disqualified himself for the job.

There is nothing fundamentally wrong with the
Reagan policy. If the administration will level witht the
country, there will indeed be life after David Stock-
man.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981 9
