Soccer daddy
Paternalistic Davidson gives
VMI & Presbyterian a lesson

I’m pushed for time so I’m letting my little broth-
er write the opening this week.

‘Fathers,are good. They help children grow with
guidance. When children are bad, fathers turn mean
and punish them to let them know they are not doing
right. Other times fathers are nice and teach children
fun things.

Sorry about that. Luckily I got back. before he
ruined the entire article. He does have a point though.
Why not apply it to the soccer team. this week? I’ve
done just about everything else.

In-the.match against VMI Saturday, the Keydets.

were naughty and were spanked fatherly by David-
son, which booted. in three goals, Maybe they were
just excited. to be away from school and could not
quell their enthusiasm,-but four were removed from
the match for flagrancy. By this time Hall Barnett,
Chris Roberts,‘and freshman Steve Bernhardt had al-
ready scored, so Davidson just relaxed and played 11
on 7. Todd Lambert also had two. assists. |

Wednesday’s Match

After punishing the boys from VMI, Davidson

felt guilty and gave Presbyterian a soccer lesson, 3 —

1. In the.first half Lambert and Price scored two text-

book goals. so the team slowed and began instruction.
The. second half featured the second stringers,

Chris Roberts unleashes a shot-on goal in Saturday’ s
_ Southern Conference shootout against VMI.

Brian Hamilton wasn’ t the only one juking VMI defenders Saturday, but the Cats will need
to muster their best moves if they plan to beat Furman Monday for Conference runner-up. -

who worked with Presbyterian by-showing them how

to score and. then watching them score. on Greek with

a beautiful play. Their goalkeeper admitted after the

game that he hada good time and hoped todo it again
_ sometime.

The game was especially important because it of-
fered playing time to many players who have waited
patiently all year and also gave Slagle and the fans.a
preview of next season’s talent.

Saturday the Cats (11 -— 7) face Pembroke, but
more importantly they meet Furman at home on Mon-
day. This match will decide the second place tearn in
the Southern Conference. The match against Furman

is always a struggle, ‘$0 plese come and witness the

soccer team’ s best season get better.

By Mark Elmore "82.

Athlete of the Week

_ Todd Lambert

3 Lambert; ajar team Pioadaainn, New Jeni Be

played a key réle in each of the ‘games which have

_ become the soccer team’s three game win streak.

the 3 — 1 win over UNCC he had two goals,

"against VMI he dished out two assists, and in the
: ss aii cal

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981

Mike Wnbiciew gets-slide-tackled here,
but the Keydets did most of the falling

as they fell to the Davidson booters 3 1.

