Leaving Senatobia behind
History professor Michael Howell has
journeyed far from his small-town roots

C F YOU KNOW SENATOBIA, MISSISSIPPI,”

I says M' Michael Howell, visiting professor

of history, “you know why everyone wants

~ toleave. It’s a little country town full of ‘cowboy hats
and rodeos.’ Davidson is a pleasant change.”

M’. Howell spent the past year in Senatobia, Mis-
sissippi teaching at Northwest Mississippi Junior
College. For the next two years he will be at David-
son teaching Western Civilization 101 and 102.

M' Howell is from Nashville, Tennessee, home
of the Grand Ole Opry. He attended Vanderbile Uni-
versity where he majored in history and minored in
Economics.

After Vanderbilt, M' Howell served in the Navy
as a “specialist in naval gunnery” to ships deployed to

Vietnam (1967 — 1969) and to the Caribbean and’Me-.

diterranean Seas (1969 — 1971). Upon completion of
his military duty M‘ Howell began work on his M.A.
in history which he attained in 1973. Now he is close
to finishing his Ph.D. with a dissertation entitled
“Danton and the First Republic,” a detailed, analyt-
ical study of the controversial role of George-Jaques
Danton in the French Revolution during the first two
years of the republic. In preparation for his disserta-

‘photo by Neil Cooksey ‘83

tion M‘ Howell spent one year (1976 — 1977) in Paris
researching Danton.
One of his most memorable experiences in Eu-

/rope was the Oktoberfest in Munich. “That was the

biggest beer party I’ve ever been to.” There were
“twenty to thirty thousand Germans drinking beer
and eating pretzels.” He then dolefully added that the
festival is during“the academic year so he doesn’t
know when he’ll be able to go again.

M' Howell never got to the French Riviera, be-
cause “the guy I was studying never got to the south
of France.” (Dommage!) But while in Paris he met
his bride-to-be who was working on her M.A. in Art
History. They are newlyweds of two months. “It pays
to choose carefully,” he says, “and I did.”

M' Howell is a music buff. He spends a lot of time
in Charlotte at the different musical events with the
opera being his favorite. Any other spare time, he
says, is spent unpacking.

“I enjoy the town of Davidson,” says M Howell.
“The campus is beautiful. Thé people are friendly,
and the students are far better than those in Senatobia,
Mississippi. They are not only more capable but more
interested. That’s more challenging for me and more
fun.”

When M*° Howell started Vanderbilt University,
he was set on becoming. a Chemical Engineer. He
changed his mind while taking and excellent course
in Western Civilization. “It was so good for me,”
says M‘ Howell, “that I try to make it good for my stu-
dents.”

By Newton Allen ’82

American literature peneie

John Engell finds his first real job at Davidson

OHN ENGELL IS A NEW PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH AT
J Davidson. and it’s not a bad position to be in.

. After studying at Chapel Hill from 1975 to 1981
in English graduate school and teaching courses
along the way, the time came to begin “looking for a
job in earnest.”

The field for prospective English professors is not
exactly good, so Engell applied to every college or
university he could find that had a need for a specialist
in-American literature.

“There were about ten good jobs in the country
last year and I got one of them,” he said. “I’ nr perfect-
ly happy here so far, but I haven’t been here long

enough to say much about Davidson yet. But I like -

it.”

Davidson is an appropriate spot for Engell, too.
The Pennsylvania native did his undergraduate work
at Hamilton College (class of 1970) in upstate New
York, and Hamilton, he says, is very much like Da-
vidson. The College now has about 1600 students i ina
town about the size of Davidson.

Following his graduation from Hamilton, he
taught in a Massachusetts preparatory school for a
year before moving to the Portsmouth Abbey School
in Rhode Island for four years. -

“Davidson is like Hamilton and the Abbey,” he
said. “They’re all small with a strong liberal arts pro-
gram and a close relationship between students and
faculty.” After six years at Chapel Hill, moreover,
Engell had come to like this area of the country, thus
Davidson, so far, seems to be his perfect spot.

“We had unproctored exams at Hamilton,” he
says, “but I’m not familiar with the self-scheduled
exam system yet. The Honor Code is almost like the

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981

one at Hamilton, and it’s pervasive there like it seems
to be here.”

Engell is close to completing his doctoral disser-
tation, “The Roots of the American Novel,” a study
of the form from its English and European ‘tradition
adapted to a distinctly American art form. His
courses this year include 19" century American
fiction, freshman comp, introduction to literature,

and the second half of the American literature survey.
In the future, he will rotate 20" Century American
fiction and the first half of the survey with D’. Randy
Nelson. Furthermore, he wants to offer courses in
American poetry, a film course, a comparison course
of English and American novels, and a drama course.

By Bert Mobley '82.

Aig PUMA TEE
and mn aK pipe ig

mi Tey
Aphis

ae

photo bv Eric Lona ‘83
