8—The Davidsonian—March 13, 1981

Nick’s Flicks

Beginning their spring term schedule next Tuesday, the Fine
Films Committee shows the Marx Brothers classic A Night at
the Opera. To anybody already familiar with this any further
comment on my part is really superfluous: the most consistently

inventive and hilarious of all
their films, it was made in their
best period after they had
shuffled off the restrictions of

_ Nick
before they were cast in a
musicals which entirely subor-
dinated their comic talents to
third-rate song-and-dance rou-
tines. The actual details of the
plot aré. similarly irrelevant—I've seen the film several times
and still can't remember what is supposed to be happening — the
important things to watch for are routines like Groucho and
Chico diécussing a theatrical contract and finally coming to the
conclusion that only children believe in a Sanity Clause. Love
Auditorium ought to be packed to bursting next Tuesday at 8.
Earlier, Pop Films open their season on Friday night with last
term’s delayed feature Coming Home starring Jane Fonda and
John Voight. The first film to recognize the commercial appeal
of the Vietnam war, it picked up Oscars left and right when
first released: quite justifiably so, too: Voight is marvelous as
_ the crippled veteran, although Fonda’s alleged commitment to
the concerned flirts dangerously with the twin pitfalls of
triteness and exploitation. Is anybody out there preparing a
Hostages Coming Home movie?
The discerning Davidson cinephile, however, should arrange
tosee the second showing of Coming Home, for preceding it at 8
‘p.m. in Chambers gallery is a showing of a film by Art Protessor
Emeritus Douglas Houchens. Early reports from the Art
Depertment and the Engfish Faculty suggest that this should
not be missed.
| Basenttially the film, called The Movie, is a highly personal
record ‘of memories and images accreted during a lifetime of
artistic production.-Dealing with Houchens, his family and close
friends, it comprises a series of discrete sections of images of
importance and-worth to the film-maker. For an outside
audience these images are validated by their associations and

juxtaposition in the film itself, although the subjects with which -
they ultimately deal are of universal importance: the process of -
growing old, memory, the spurs to creativity. Taking its cue at
least partially from.Dylan’s dictum that « man has only to open

‘his. eyes 6 be! influenced, the film should. be ‘a ‘unique and
fascinating testament of the inner life and vision behind the
’ paintings currently on show in the gallery: The Movie should

not be missed by anyone professing an interest in the pictorial or.

cinematic arte.

their Broadway experience and ,

BECOME A LAWYER'S ASSISTANT.

© Program approved by American Bar Association.
-@ Day or Evening classes available.
‘@ Employment assistance.

A Representative from The National Center for Paralegal |
Training's Lawyer's Assistant will be on campus.
.on Tuesday, Mar. 17, from 2:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m, at the
“Placement Office to meet interested students. For more
information contact ne ors B Office. or The National
Center for Paralegal T Peachtree Roed, NE, .
. Suite 430, Atlanta, Georgia 320 a (404) 404) 206.1000.

Please send me information about a career as a lawyer's

| we State Zip
= *
“¥e. Grad. =
1081
( SPRING DAY .C SUMMER DAY 0 FALL OAY i,
Feb. 9-May8 June 11-Sept.8 Sept. 17 - Dec. 15
@ Cl SPRING. EVE Co FALL EVE a
Mar. 17 - Sept. 19 Oct. 20 - May 8
| THE NATIONAL ‘CENTER FOR
PARALEGAL TRAINING
@ 3376 Peachtree Rd., NE la
. Atlanta, Ga. 30326
* 404/266-1060 r]
(ae (al ae) eae ) | ae es

University of Michigan professor teaches comparative world views

Cohen enlivens philosophy for 600 students

By JOHN KROTCHKO
Features Editor

Reading Philosophy Professor Carl Cohen’s
work and meeting him face-to-face are two
entirely different experiences. His cool, rational
prose betrays little of his dynamic, almost
explosive personality. But his curiously dishevel-
led hair, wide, groping eyes, and wildly
expressive hands suggest—even before his first
words affirm it—that he is no ordinary professor.
Davidson. is lucky to. have him for a term of
teaching, debate, and dialogue.

It’s easy (but incorrect) to mistake Cohen's
charismatic enthusiasm for a mild touch of chaos.
He talks fast. He smiles a lot. He jumps up. He
asks questions of people who are questioning him.
When the Philosophy Department, with the help
of Vice President for Academic Affairs Price
Zimmermann, offered Cohen an opportunity to
teach a class of about two hundred at Davidson
through funding by the Mellon Foundation, he
accepted the offer and agreed to teach two other
courses as well. Philosophy Professor Earl
MacCormac noted that he was ‘‘very enthu-
siastic’” about having more contact with under-

graduates.

Cohen’s’ class of two hundred now numbers »

closer to six hundred. Entitled ‘‘Communism,
Fascism and Democracy”’ (and using his book of
the same title as its text), its large size is
unprecedented. Cohen, who teaches at the
University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, has been to
Davidson before, both as a Reynolds lecturer, and

_ in a debate over the Bakke reverse discrimination

case. The interest he generated then remained
strong enough to influence so many students to
carol! in hie clase this Spring.

m interested in what the good students”
eile: ** MacCormac explained, and the good

students were as enthusiastic about Cohen ‘as he

_ was about them. The Philosophy Department,

the. administration and Cohen all felt the class

“should have no ceiling. Scheduled at 10 a.m. on
. Tuesdays and Thursdays in Love Auditorium, it
, is open.to anyone. interested in attending.

Colien’s aim in the course is “‘. . .to develop a
penetrating grasp of what communism, fascism
and .demiocracy are. . .”" -He will concentrate on

political philosophies and their intellectual ‘pro-
ponerits, because these ‘‘set the tone for how we

think‘about actual governments.”

Cohen spent the first class last Tuesday |

The view from the back in Professor Cohen's class.

organizing and warning his students of his
idiosyncrasies. Reflecting the first impressions of
every student interviewed, sophomore Tom Roth
commented, ‘‘He is constantly in motion.”

An extra class period per week has been
scheduled on Wednesday for further reflection on
the material. ‘‘I want to give students an
opportunity to get back at me,’’ Cohen explained.
In a class of that size, it will be no small
challenge.

“TI cannot refrain from passing judgments,”’
Cohen said. His essays and books reveal his
outspokenness on contemporary issues.

Of particular note is an essay concerning the
famous Skokie case. In April 1977 a Nazi group
fought for the right to stage a rally in Skokie, a
predominantly Jewish suburb of Chicago. Cohen,

a Jew and also, at the time, an active member of
the American Civil Liberties Union (which
supported the Nazis) published an essay on “The
Right to be Offensive” (The Nation, April 15,
1978), an elegant, dialectical defense of the Nazis’
claim to freedom ‘of speech. “If the history of
struggles to defend the freedom of thought and
expréssion teaches anything,’ he wrote, ‘‘it
teaches this: that persons or parties must not be
silenced because of the moral qualities their views
are ase ‘to have.”

Other topics Cohen has treated include racism,

_and limits on recombinant DNA research.

- Cohen’s views on democracy will be aired
Monday in the first of a series of lectures and
discussions coming up in.the Center for Special
Studies’ First Annual Ethics Institute (see. Back
Page for details.) =.

“Communism, Fascism and Democracy” is a

_ main, course in. the fascinating smorgasbord of

Special learning opportunities offered at Davidson

_thiggpring. Any opportunity to pick the brain of
. the-¢xplosive, eloquent and genuinely friendly

Dr. Carl Coben should be taken eagerly.

Grand Opening Special!

Buy one taco, get one free
Offer good through March 21.

SESS

mre DY

wall a's

Limit 10: tacos

SESWEEG

Must have. coupon to receive free taco.

bys

VO AS

Open | Mon-Sat,

‘ONE FREE TACO.

CACA Ce CAC

11. am to 8 pm

892-7415
Hwy. 115 Cornelius, across from the 7-11

