1942 when Britten was returning to Eng-
land after a brief residence in this country.
The Chancel Choir is directed by Jane Cain.

2 PM Computer Center (the old doctors’
offices behind the P.O.). The Prime Users
Group (PUG) is sponsoring an open house.
They'll discuss how to “Log-in” to the sys-
tem and how to use the computer to write
papers, letters, etc. Also to be discussed is
how to write and run programs in Basic
and other languages. The computer is a
great tool; learn to use it.

6 PM WDAV: Seixas: Four Toccatas for
Harpsichord; Mozart: Adagio in F major, K.
410; Brahms: Ballades, Op. 10. .

6:45 pm Post Office. All students are
invited to go caroling with Chaplain Char-
lie Summers which will culminate in a
community-wide caroling at the Village
Green. |

7 PM Union. College Bow! Intramurals
for the championship, Stud vs. | Phelta Thi.

8 PM Lingle Chapel. Moravian Lovefeast

_ —come help us celebrate Christmas in this
ancient Moravian Service. All are welcome
to come and enjoy some hot coffee, a bun
and the warmth of the Christmas spirit.

6 PM WDAV. Boccherini: Sinfonia in D
minor, “La Casa del Diavolo”; Bach: Cello
Suite No. 6 in D major, BWV 1012.

7 PM Mozart: Piano Trio in B-flat Major,
KV 502; Rachmaninoff: Vocalise.

8-10 PM Union Christmas Party. Come
to the campus-community wide celebra-
tion. Complete with eggnog, caroling, tree-
decorating, and all sorts of Christmas
cheer. In the Big Screen Room there'll be
all your favorite Christmas shows. Tom
Clark will be making gnomes. And if that
isn’t enough, Santa Claus himself will even
make an appearance.

8 PM The New York Philharmonic. Rafee!
Kebelik conducts Beethoven’s Symphony
N° 9. The Westminster Choir directed by
Joseph Flummerfelt, sings with the New
York Philharmonic in this performance of
the great Choral Symphony.

10 pm woav. Flipsides.
10 PM Morrison Room. Student Wor-

ship Service. Come for a little inspiration
on those pre-holiday reviews.

in D Major for 2 Horns, 2 Oboes, Bassoon,
and Strings. ;

7:30 pM Charlote Coliseum. Men's
basketball. DC vs. Appalachian. Tickets:
Boxseats $7, Circle $5, Mezannine $4,
Gen. Admission $3.

10 pm wopaAv. Flipsides.
10 pmM 900 Room. Disco. It’s your last

chance for romance before the Christmas

break. Should be real fun!

10 am Gallery. Coffee & Cokes. Bid
your favorite profs and administrators a
final “Merry Christmas” before the holi-
days.

Noon-1:30 pm Depot. Depot
Lunch. For $1.25 you can munch away on
sandwiches, chips, cookies, ice cream,
etc. See your friends, profs, and town-
speople. Sponsored by the Y-Service
Corps.

3:30 Union Café. Pancake Eating Con-
test. Ever thought you were a big kid be-
cause you could eat a stack of pancakes
bigger than what your sis could? Well,
here’s another chance to prove your big
kiddedness. Remember, wimp, don’t be a
carnivore, capture the essence of doughi-
vore!

6 DM WDAV. Mozart: Quintet for Horn
& trings in E-flat, K. 407; Mendelssohn:
Sonata in D Major for ‘Cello and Piano.

7 PM WDAV. Dancels... Kathryn Horne,
Artistic Director of Dance Charlotte, hosts
this program of dance music called “Get
Your Prop — What It’s Like to Be an Opera
Ballerina.”

7 PM Johnston Gym. Wrestling. DC vs.
Livingstone. Admission is free.

8 PM WDAV. The Cleveland Orchestra.
Conductor Lorin Maazel leads another
Severance Hall concert with the Women
of the Cleveland Orchestra Chorus. Violi-
nist Kyung-Wha Chung is the soloist in

12 NOON 900 Room. Open Luncheon. D'
MacCormac is the guest speaker. For only
$1, you can hear him and lunch on yoghurt,
salad, and tea.

Stravinsky's Violin Concerto. Barber's
Adagio for Strings and “The Planets” by
Holst complete the program.

10 pm woav. Flipsides.

10:15 am Lingle Chapel. DCPC Wor-
ship Service. This is your last chance-to
hear our own Charlie Chaplain before
Christmas break. It’s really short and real-
ly good.

9:30 pm 900 Room. Monday Night
Football, ID’s required. Come watch your
favorite team play towards the Superbowl.

12-1:30 pm 900 Room. CROP Lunch.

- $1 donation for World Hunger. Please
come! Sponsored by the Y-Student Corps.

6. pm WDAV. Bruckner: String Quartet
in C. minor; Beethoven: Leonore Over-
ture. .

7 PM Rodrigo: Concierto de Aranjuez
for Guitar & Orchestra; Handel: Concerto
