Union board races

. [continued from page 11

vor of social functions.

~He'would also like to'see'the Union and SGA Weick

together i in more ‘ways, especially with alumni ;ela-
tions and big events like John Belk day. The Y-Student
Service Corps is another organization which Sherman
wants the Union to work more closely with. Shefman
would like.to sponsor co-curricular. them weekends
with these organizations.

The other candidate: for Union’ co-curricular vice
president, Elizabeth McMillan, is entering the race
never having held a Union Board position. She feels

‘that this is one of her strengths, because she would be ‘
bringing ‘a fresh perspective to the office.

She has been involved with the Union as a member
of the Games Committee, worked with the Union

Lindsay Biddle

x

Mike Goode

Board and last year as SGA Chancellor.

As co-curricular vice-president, she would seek
optimum exposure for the Union and try to attract new
Pacipents for Union activities. Elizabeth would like

o “get students together where they don’t normally see
each other — i.e. dorms, eating houses, athletics —
whether it be for social or co-curricular activities,” but
she especially stresses the co-curricular side, believing

that it can enhancé college life and supplement aca-
demics in a “fun” way.

Juniors Steve Stine and Danny Waddill are running
for vice-president for social activities. The Games,
Pop Films, Concert, Dance and Intimate Performances
Committees all are under the auspices of the Union so-
cial vice-president.

Neither Steve nor Danny have chaired a Union
Board Committee, but both have been extensively in-
volved in Union activities. Ster was a member of the
Dance Committee and was the organizer of this year’s
wine-tasting sessions, which are indirectly Union
functions. Danny has been a member of the Games
Committee and was involved with a number of Union
parties and other events.

Steve decided to become a candidate for two major
reasons. First he feels participation in Union social ac-
tivities is unnecssarily low. He would like to see more
campus-wide participation and a greater variety of in-
terests represented. Secondly, and he said more impor-
tantly, he wants to see greater communication between
Patterson Court and the Union concerning social func-
tions, which he feels too often conflict with each other.
“In a school of this limited size,” he said, “we have to
be more responsible to other’s needs.” Although Steve
has no specific plans, he would like to concentrate on
these two areas to “just jump in and see what needs to

be done.”

Danny also stressed the need for the PCC and the
Union to devetop better relations, and for the two to
codrdinate social activities. In addition to concentrat-
ing on this relationship, Danny would also like to in-
volve more students in the Union. He is especially in-
terested in a Video Committee, which would be in
charge of finding more ways to utilize the Union’s re-
cently purchased video equipment.

By Lindsey Rader'84.

Wildcat Handbook —

Lind and Rader oppose Frankhouser and Champlain

Sophomores Sherri Lind and Lindsey Rader will
compete against. juniors Mike Frankhouser and Laura
Champlain in Tuesday’s election of the co-editors of
the Wildcat Handbook.

Sherri and Lindsey will strive to make the hand-
book “a little more lively” they said. According to
Sherri, they plan to include more kinds of information
than the Handbook has in the past. -

Lindsey explained that the Handbook should in-
clude information which a tiall counselor might not

-know off-hand, such as maps of Charlotte, surround-
ings, interstates, and perimeter housing.
They also plan to-include are restaurants and night
spots, as well as the names of surrounding churches.
- Sherri said they plan to include the traditional list of

. people to know and the list of “college lingo.” She

added that they plan to creatively alter the traditional
row-column layout.

Lindsey said the Wildcat Handbook is important as
a supplement to the hall counselor program.

Both she and Sherri have several years of high

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981 | 3

school newspaper and yearbook experience.
According to Mike, the Wildcat Handbook “is a
fun way to be creative.” She and Laura feel they could
benefit the freshmen and help to get them interested in
College activities.
Laura said, “The basic format now is good” but that

_ they would like to expand it. She said they are still

“tossing around ideas.”

Mike, presently a third-floor Richardson hall coun-
selor, feels that her experience with freshmen will be
helpful. Laura said they both have “good leadership
skills and are organized.”

Laura addéd that they are both interested in com-
munications and journalism and that editing the hand-
book would be “good experience.”

“I think we can both handle it very well,” Laura
added.

By Frances Palmer :
