2—The Davideonian—May 8, 1981

Path of integration is long and slow, continues amid problems

By MINOR SINCLAIR and VINCE PARKER
Special to The Davidsonian

Mississippi, September 1962. Governor Ross Barnett
appointed himself registrar of the University of
Mississippi to enforce his order to reject the application
of James Meredith, a negro. He refused to obey a
federal court ordder to’ enroll’ Meredith. Meredith was
finally enrolled with the protection of federal troups and
the Mississippi‘ National Guard. °
Davidson, North Carolina, 1959. President Grier
Martin of Davidson Collége addressed the College body
during chapel meeting one morning. “It is not in the
best interests of the college to admit Negro students at
this time,” he said. —
Memphis; Tetinessee, april 4, 1968. Martin Luther
King, Jr., ‘was shot and killed, sparking rioting and
looting across the country.
Davidson, North Carolina, April 1, 1968. Students and
faculty picketed and boycotted a black-owned
shop in town for its refusal to serve local blacks. ~

Twenty years have passed since the College began

integration. In. hindsight, integration appears as a
process, a continuum of slow change and protracted
growing pains. In spite of a few volatile moments, the
process ahs largely been one of gradual compromise
within the system in ‘‘the Davidson way.”

Change has resulted. The College, once an all white
institution, now claims one black professor and 45
black students. Yet, is Davidson integrated now? or is
thé process continuing? or has it been aborted?

In 1961, the Trustees approved the acceptance of

three black African students. They never came, but an
African enrolled the following year and another the year
after. In 1964 two American blacks attended Davidson
and six year later the number of blacks had risen to
eight.

Religion Professor Dan Rhodes headed a committee
appointed by Martin to prepare the College and town
community for the African students. He said, ‘‘It is
very difficult to prepare people to make the blacks feel
comfortable. It’s one thing to accept blacks into the
’ school and another thing entirely to make them feel
comfortable.”

Through the 1960’s changes in College and com-
munity practices were highly visible. The signs
“colored” and ‘‘white only’, which seem more appro-
priate as instructions on a box of washing machine
detergent than as rules to segregate society, were
removed from store windows and College policy. Yet, in
a sense, subtler signs were erected in their stead.
Wayne Crumwell, one of the two black members of the
class of 1968, said, ‘“You can’t integrate fully here or
anywhere else. What god is in integrating if the feeling
’ behind it is not real?” ;

The impetus to admit blacks came not from students,
faculty or the administration; but from the challenge
and request of th Board of World Missions of the
Presbyterian Church. The Board wanted to train young
Congolese in church-supported colleges in the South.
They recommended specific students to Davidson and
guarantéed financial support until their graduation.

On February 15, 1961, the Board of Trustees voted to
approve the Board of Mission’s request, but stipulated
that candidates must be selected by the Board of World

. Missions, well qualified, and Congolese. “For instance,
we couldn’t take a-Nigerian no matter how well
qualified without the Board's approval,’’ Martin said.

In 1959 The Davidsonian addressed the integration
problem and asked, ‘“‘Why not consider the possibility
{of black students at Davidson]?. . .As we consider the
problem, our first emotional reaction is to recoil from
the thought . . .and we would be the first to admit that
our natural inclination is to disagree [with integration].

. (but) now is the time to begin ‘ to think about the
_ issues involved.” In the next issue, the letter to the
éditor’s page was flooded with: emotional statements
defending ‘‘hell week,”’ which, it appeared, was the
current topic of concern. Integration was not an issue.

The nationwide civil rights movement was on,

everyone’s mind in the early 1960's, but few considered
discrimination a local issue. Though the Mecklenbrug
school system had been de-segregated in the 1940’s, the
traditions which ae the races were still very
much alive. °
A’ student poll tahien in 1954: reported that the
student. body was split evenly on the issue of
. Eight years later, only months before
Benoit (ben) Nzengu, the first African student, was due
to arrive, only 53% of the students favored integration.
Five local businesses stated publicly that they would
not serve the black African students, saying instead,
“T’ll ask them to leave” or ‘‘I’ll close that door and go
fiome” or “anybody that fools with themis a damn
fool.”’

Rhodes said, ‘‘It was “hard to sort out the
motivations for opposing integration. Some felt that
the timing wasn’t right, that the action was hasty.
Others were not fully convinced that the races were
equal in any profound sense. It, was a time of deep soul
searching all across the country and in the com-
munity.”

“It took us some time for real non-segregation to

- penetrate all fibers of the College and community. It’s

the little things—like being able to get a cup of coffee,
or to use a public restroom, or get a haircut—that
makes a difference and that are so hard to grow into,”
Rhodes added.

On the surface, the College accepted the Congolese
students fairly readily; perhaps only Nzengu and
Georges Nzongola can say for sure. On one occasion
Nzengu announced his intention of attending a basket-
ball game in Johnston Gym in the company of a female
white student. Though eyebrows were raised, he was

“not stop

Ap pece of blacks by the College community
brought College pressure on segregation practices in
the area. Martin persuaded the owner of several movie
theaters in Charlotte to allow Ben Nzengu to sit with
his white friends, but only if they called before they

came and brought two white students to sit on both

sides of each black.

Despite initial resistance, the first black students
were served in eating establishments, drug stores, and
barber shops. Though the Africans left their turbans in
Africa, their foreign accents muted their blackness and
made acceptance easier in a white community. The
Congolese were served in places where local blacks were
prohibited.

Transition from acceptance of foreign blacks to
American blacks came next. Leslie Brown and
Crumwell were the first blacks entering in the class of
1968. Brown had been valedictorian of his high school
class, president of the Student Council, president of
National Honor Society, editor of the yearbook and a
member of the debate team. Crumwell, too, was highly
qualified,.and graduated in the top 5% of his high
school class.

A prospective basketball player drew attention to the
surviving vestiges of discrimination in the downtown
shops. While Charlie Scott and his parents were on a
recruiting trip to Davidson Lefty Driesell and other
coaches took them to the Coffee Cup, a local restaurant.
The proprietors asked Scott and his parents to eat in
segregated quarters. Many feel the incident influenced
Scott’s decision to attend University of North Carolina
and cost the Wildcats a national championship.
According to Will terry, ‘‘There was an awful lot of
desegregation taking place that next afternoon.”

The 1968 boycott and picketing of Johnson's
barbershop represented to many .the height of
Davidson’s contribution to the student radicalism of
the 60s. To others, the incident. showed rashness and
immaturity and caused personal hurt. Either way, as a
result the last stronghold of segregation was opened to
all blacks. For years, the barbershops would cut black
students hair, but flatly refused to cut the hair of local
blacks. The owners felt. their business would decline if
they served local blacks. Ralph Johnson, owner of
Johnson’s Barbershop, said in the Davidsonian, ‘I
have to operate my business according to’ what my
customers want.”

The barbers were resolute in their stance despite
college threats that another integrated shop would open
up against them, and despite offers of financial
compensation for’ the revenue lost because of integra-
tion. Johnson relented about a month after the boycott
began and started to serve local blacks. Subsequently,
he went out of business and attributes it to the boycott.

- Ken Norton, owner of Norton Barbershop, still feels
that the boycott was “unjust and unfair. These men
had been running their shops in a certain way for 50
years. You can’t teach an old dog new tricks and you
can’t expect these men ‘to change ‘overnight. ” He feels
that the change was inevitable, but the boycott ‘did
not have to happen and it was .a mistake.”

By the 1970s, the marches, sit-ins, and other forms
of protest had ended. With the admission of a few black
American students, the College felt that it could put
black issues on the. back burner. Among blacks, both at
Davidson and throughout the country, goals and
objectives became somewhat nebulous. The main
problem was no longer getting into Davidson, but
surviving once there, a process which a few blacks
realized would be harder than marching in a protest.

Blacks seeking to survive at Davidson must deal
with a lack of social life, a lack of role models, problems
of identity, and the general problem of adapting to an
environment where many feel unwelcome. -

The social life at Davidson has been called ‘‘null and
void’’ for blacks. Enrolling more black students is the
solution to this problem, but at the same time, the
small number here now is one factor which keeps the
College from attracting more. The Black Student
Coalition (BSC) has tried to fill the void by sponsoring
activities to bring blacks together. The lack of numbers
and widely varying backgrounds among blacks can
cause problems in personal relationships and in forming
close friendships. The binding factor which makes
survival easier is their blackness.

The lack of role models continues,to be a real problem
for blacks. Black. students only see campus blac
non-students cooking, sweeping, and digging. Black
students see the fact that there is only one black faculty
member as evidence of the College’s lack of concern.
Blacks have always felt the need for other blacks in
positions of authority to share experiences and
problems.

Associated with this. problem of role models, is
black’s perceptions of their identities as both blacks
and students. Some blacks, especially\the first. blacks
to come to Davidson, have felt that the College was
using them to fill some ‘‘quota,”’ though|the College has
no formal quota system. A common complaint of black
students is a feeling that they are not accepted as
people but only as. blacks. Some feel they are in a
fishbowl, a part of the ‘‘education’’ the College seeks to
offer its white student body.

Black students have chosen various routes of
adaptation at Davidson. Some decide to become totally
involved in student activities and social life on campus,
de-emphasizing their blackness and stressing their
individuality. Some decide to withdraw from most
activities on campus, preferring to stay within a small
group of black friends. Others decide to go out into the
community and try to get away from Davidson’s

_ college atmosphere. .
Relations with the town

The first few blacks at Davidson were ‘‘adopted”’ by
blacks in town. They would go home with some of the
cooks and janitors to have dinner and relax. Brown
explained in 1967 that ‘‘sometimes we like to get away
from white students and be with our brothers.”

This type of interaction is not as common today
because of the greater number of black students and .
because of the local blacks’ view of Davidson as a
school for rich white people. Some see the students as
having ‘‘turned white.’’ Nevertheless, local blacks are
sensitive to some of the problems blacks have at
Davidson and try to help.

The recurring expression of these basic problems
throughout the past 15 years points to several
important questions. If both the College and town of

. Davidson have been integrated, why do blacks still feel
uncomfortable? Why haven’t blacks gone into eating
houses and fraternities? Of the 31 black males, 23. play
intercollegiate football, but Union committees, the
SGA, the Y Student Service Corps, and DCF still are
nearly all white. Why is there still only one black
professor, no black administrator, and only two blacks
‘on the administrative staff? Black students still do not
seem to feel they belong here.

Yet, maybe within the light of Davidson’s tradition-
ally cautious and consensus-building approach to
problems, integration is occurring at a reasonable pace.
Whites are just beginning to understand how blacks
feel on certain issues. Blacks are more willing to
express their true feelings about Davidson, reflecting a
belief that someone will indeed listen.

Former English Professor Charles Lloyd, who, by his
own admission ‘“‘was wrong at the top of my lungs in
opposing integration,” said ‘‘our society will definitely
be integrated. Blacks and whites will have to learn to
live with each other. What remains to be seen is

whether they. can learn to love each other.”
t

Bob Building says
You can live
off campus!

The Housing office has a current listing of available
joff-campus housing for next year. There are many
opportunities for men and women including singles,
doubles, apartments, houses, and mobile homes. There
some units available for students who want to work
-time (yardwork, babysitting) in lieu of or as
ial payment. Pick up your list in the Housing
Office.

