Better

‘war through technology

The neutro omb potentially reduces the ee of modern war

T IS A MEASURE OF,THE PASSION PEOPLE FEEL
about nuclear weapons that President Reagan

has touched off yet another neutron bomb flap by -

announcing, on August 8", that the parts now being
built for these devices will be screwed together when
finished instead of being stored separately. The
finished products will remain in the United States, as
the parts would have done, unless they are needed
elsewhere. Several NATO countries have already
seen a new round of demonstrations against this wea-
pon of low power and ki
ion can be the father of political invention.

All nuclear weapons are horrific things. They
cannot be disinvented, but there are three things that
modern technology ought to be doing to reduce the
horror.

1. It should be improving the accuracy of the
bombs and rockets that carry nuclear warheads, so
that smaller warheads, which cause less destruction,
can be replace larger ones.

2. It should alter the design of nuclear devices so
that they have only the destructive effects that are ab-
solutely necessary. All nuclear weapons produce
blast, heat, direct (neutron) radiation, and radioacti-
ave fallout. Not all these effects are needed for all
targets. Those*that are not needed can be reduced,
and some can be almost eliminated.

3. The technologists should be trying to invent
non-nuclear weapons to replace nuclear ones.

The neutron warhead is a good example of the se-
cond possibility, and can eventually be replaced by

ited utility. Luckily, pass- —

N

an example of the third. Neutron warheads, fired by
guns or short-range rockets, are designed to stop
tanks attacking in mass formation if non-nuclear anti-
tank weapons fail to do the job (as they quite possibly
would fail against the very large Russian tank force in
Europe). “Ordinary” nuclear weapons — forgive the
phrase — can do this too, but the amount of blast and
heat they produce would destroy whole areas of coun-
tryside and human habitation in the process.

Better, surely, to kill the tank crews by direct ra-
diation without these appalling side-effects. The neu-
tron warhead would produce the direct radiation of a
10-kiloton “ordinary” nuclear weapon, but the blast
and heat of only a 1-kiloton one. If detonated more
that 1,500 feet above the earth, its blast and fire
would affect only a small area directly below the ex-
plosion, and almost no poisonous fallout would be
deposited downwind. On the horror scale, it is less
horrible than its existing alternative...

Better sooner than later
Still, it is being opposed not only by those who

oppose all nuclear weapons but also by another, po-

tentially more influential, group of objectors. These
are the people who originally suported the idea of
building the neutron wathead but now argue that its,
political price may be too high, because M' Reagan’s

Stockpiling the neutron

Where will deployment of the neutron bomb lead us?

HE UNIQUE NATURE OF THE NEUTRON BOMB
is that, for all intents and purposes, it is a
weapon useful only in Europe: Sure, the
Afghans could use it with singular effect. But primar-
ily it is the natural weapon for Europe. Natural be-

cause it is. utterly inoffensive, non-provocative be-

cause it is defensive i in nature. The enhanced radia-

tion warhead, ‘positioned - in artillery instruments, -

launches less than.100 miles and kills only personnel,

preferably those driving huge. Russian tanks lumber-

ing over European soil.
Now, President Reagan’s shrewd step lay precise-
ly in not talking about any | deadline for positioning

these warheads: ‘On the matter of theater nuclear for-

ces, the agenda i is already. crowded. By the end of
1983 We are suppos d ‘to have" Pershing and cruise
missilés’in Western Europe of far greatet conse-

_ quence than the neutron bomb in terms of strategic |
equilibrium. The former are designed as counterforce _

weapons to cope with: the’ devastating SS20s de-
ployed by the Soviet Union... Besa

If Jimmy Carter had, in 1978, followed thet recom-
mendation of Gen' Alexander Haig (and the surrepti-
tious recommendations of: many European leaders) to

deploy the neutron bomibs, we'd have got at the mat-
ter of re-arming Europe in a more.orderly way, with

priority given to defensive weapons, backed only

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981

William Buckley

then by offensive weapons. Ideally the chronology
would have been:.

1] Europe deploys neutron bombs.

2) Russia removes or does not remove its $S20s. If
not,

3] Europe deploys the ruse and: Pershing mis-
siles.
Reagan has said to his European brothers:
Gentlemen, ' we shall see to it that we have the arms.

‘Although NATO has formal authority to deploy wea-
‘pons, and indeed has alreay deployed tactical nuclear
weapons, we recognize: that you haye a veto power

over what weapons squat down on your own soil. But
the question before the house i is, whether, the Soviet

Union, through y you, has a veto over which | weapons
the United States can manufacture, ne weapons

that are useful only to you. na bee
Within the memory of all Americans er 50, Win-

ston Churchill asked America to give Great Britain

the tools, and it would do the job. We are taking the
precaution of moving so that our arsenal will be ready
when you call onit. Ifin 1935 we had had, immediate-

neutron decision could further weaken western Eu-
rope’s willingness to deploy the medium-range cruise
and Pershing — 2 missiles that NATO needs as a coun-
terbalance to Russia’s SS — 20s.

The answer is that, if neutron warheads are
needed at all, it is better for M‘ Reagan to announce
their go-ahead now rather than after negotiations with
Russia about the other bigger missiles have begun lat-
er this year. The disruptive effect would be even big-
ger then. And neutron warheads are needed. It is true
that new non-nuclear anti-tank .weapons are being
developed which should eventually make them un-

“necessary. But this easy solution to the problem will

not be ready for several more years. Those will be
dangerous years, because they are the ones during
which Russia, with all those tanks, will have at least a
theoretical first-strike capability against land- based
missiles in America itself.

There is a way to diminish opposition to the neu-
tron decision. First, the United States should an-
nounce that it plans to scrap an equal number of “ordi-
nary” nuclear warheads in its present tactical arsenal
as soon as the neutron ones are ready. This would
show that neutron weapons are not additions to the
stockpile but less-destructive replacements for old
weapons. Second, the Americans can press ahead
with the development of the new non-nuclear anti-
tank defenses, and declare that the neutron warheads
themselves will be scrapped as soon as their conven-
tional substitutes are available. That will not satisfy
all the objectors, but it should satisfy the ones open to
persuasion.

ly available to France. and Great Britain, 5UU
Bombers and 1,000 fighters, you:could have stopped
Hitler by raising one index finger pointed warningly

_ at Berlin. When the time comes to deploy the neutron

weapons you will not need to wait for them over what
could prove a critical period. ;

Europe’s final response? There are grounds, great
grounds, for pessimism. In 1959, writing from Eu-
rope,. Whittaker Chambers. (the -most eloquent

prophet of our time) wrote, “Give them the means,

and these dear friends, that noble Third Force, will
cut our bloody throats. As people, they are stronger
than we are, and they know it — I mean as individual
people amounting to a. mass, they are stronger. In the

-mass they loathe us. At another level their disdain for
us is withering, At their most understanding. or com-

passionate, they. neither hate nor loathe; it’s just that
they cannot help being conscious of a difference that
superior breeds feel in the presence of others. Often
they show it most by. their effort not to show it. Give

. these superior breeds the economic power to see.us at

eye level, and'they will see ight o over us. They have
been seeing through: us for years.”

~Yes, but the latent strength of America,’ which |
bailed Europe out twice in this century, is ready to do.
it again. But this time, Deo volente, by dacs war,
rather than sperely winning it.

23
