ve ceeeomn oes ’ 4
oo |e Sy
+ i alee

True confes-
sions: all

about Stock-
man, page 8

Gearing up for
Charlotte
FUNB tourney.
See basketball
on page 16.

DAVIDSONIAN

a

Volume LXXI, Number 10

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday 11 December 1981

Union Board Elections

Students compete for each Union Board office

Elections for Union Board president, Union Board
vice president for co-curricular activities, and Union
Board vice president for social activities will be held on
Tuesday. There are two candidates vying for each post.

Juniors Lindsay Biddle and Mick Goode are com-
peting for the presidency. The Union Board president’s
duties entail overseeing all Union committees, repre-
senting the Union on campus issues, serving in several
school committees and attending national seminars and
conferences as Davidson’s Union Board’s spokesper-
son.
Lindsay is the incumbent vice president for co-cur-
ricular activities, and has been actively involved with
the Union since her freshman year, when she acted as
unofficial publicity agent. .

Mike is chairman of the Games committee, and has

been a member of the Pop Films committee, in addition

to being a Union work-study student.

Both Lindsay and Mike feel that their past expe-
rience qualifies them for the job, and they expressed
similar goals. Lindsay is especially concerned with the
Union’s identity. “[It] shouldn’t be defined just as the
Grey Union building, but should be seenas a tool for
students to utilize and a place where various issues can
be publicized.” She stressed that students are not aware
that $40 of their tuition is for Union use, nor that almost
all extra-curricular activities, except those sponsored

by the Patterson Court Council, are under Union auspi-

ces.
In addition to attracting more student participation,
Lindsay would like to see a better working relationship

between the Union and the Patterson Court Council, .

especially involving schedule conflicts. She would al-
so like the Union to work with houses on the Court to
promote greater observance of noise regulations and
healthier drinking attitudes on campus.

. » Lindsay would like the Union to reéstablish a Liter-
ary committee, to develop an awareness group for pub-
licity, and ato foster closer relationships with such or-
ganizations as the Women’s Center.

Mike is concerned with the latk of student aware-
ness of the Union. He said it needs to become more vis-
ible and personal.

Besides seeking more student participation, he
would like to draw faculty members and people of the
community into its activities.

Mike said, “it’s also important to keep the old -

members enthusiastic about their jobs. Too often they
become_unnecessarily frustrated, when in fact, they
can do just about anything; for we have the resources
and the ability to do what we want. There are a lot of
good ideas circulating now that really should be fol-
lowed through.”

Running for the position of vice president for co-
curricular activities are juniors Sherman Allen and Eli-
zabeth McMillan. Co-curricular vice-president in ad-
dition to being a member of the Union Board Executive
Council and being responsible for the Artist’s Series,
oversees the Speakers, Cultural Events, Campus Fo-
rum, Gallery, International, and Fine Films Commit-
tees.

Sherman has been active on the Speakers Commit-
tee for three years, chairing it for the past two. Because
of his work with the Speakers Committee, and because
he is an active participant in a number of Union activi-
ties, he feels he has the experience necessary for the
job.

Although he stressed that the Union operates as an
undivided organization, he would like to see the co-
curricular activities’ side emphasized a little more, for
he feels that too often it is overlooked or ignored in fa-

[jump to page 3}

