The one that
gotaway =

by Mark Elmore 82

In a week with only one game, the Davidson soc-
cer team lost to Belmont Abbey 1 — 0 in the last 7: se~
conds. ‘

On their: final offensive surge, Belmont: Abbey
shot and hit a Davidson defender and the ball rolled
over the endline causing a cornerkick.

The kick sailed over Davidson's fullback on the

neat post and hooked into the goal untouched for a last- —

second score: “We were just unlucky,” admitted. Se-

nior Co-Captain Alex M‘Callie, “for we played them:

equal in the second half and their goal wasn’t really the
result of superior play.” In fact, Davidson was only

outshot 19 to 17, and actually had better opportunities —

when they did fire on goal.:

Coach Slagle stated that “we have continually -

come out slow in the beginning of games. This game,

we failed to open up later on like we have in the past.” -.

As a result, play was sloppy and: concentrated on one
side of the field.

Davidson played much better the second half; 7

they built offense slowly and worked the’ball'up the
field with fallbacks. When they stopped trying give-

and-go passes, they put together consecutive play,

built momentum ‘and dominated.

M‘Callie eased the loss by saying, “It deflated our
ego and showed us we really have to work to win.’
Well, the Cats will certainly have to work Saturday as
they face Washington & Lee at home.

The game should be interesting. Last year at Lex-
ington they- virtually refused. Davidson use of their
training room before the game, and the match turned
into an angry: battle in the cold rain. Davidson lost 2-0
and has not forgotten.

~

at ~

Marian Hill ‘Randy MeManus'~

page 8 DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

kde
~y
sf ot

One on one — Chris Roberts puts the move on an opponent.

\

- Athletes of
the eek

MARIAN HILL and RANDY M°MANUS
| Cross Country
- Matian, ajunior from Des Moines; Towa, and Randy, a

the. women’s arid men’s ‘Cross — Country races last,

. weekend at Lynchburg. Marian, who took first place

Photo by Eric Long ’83_

| B ‘senior from Beaufort, South Carolina, broke the tape in °

Jaurels with a time of 21:42, is rebounding from aslow —

start. Randy, also battling back from an atypical start,

pressed on despite painful leg cramps to complete the
hilly five. mile: course in: 27: 22. ‘Bach harrier led his

team to a ‘win.
