The coaching

Meet the new coaches in.town:

Bobby —

‘Bobby’ Hussey ‘comies' to ‘us from Belmont-Ab-
bey, where ‘he ‘compiled a tén year-oyerall record of
178-115: Across the last four years he went 96-31,
andin the 1979-80 season he was 29-5 and tanked as
high as sixth nationally in the NAIA ‘poll. ee

‘Coach Hussey is 41 years old, and after starting:

out’ a8 an assistant uhder Al McGuire, he took over

the‘reigns ‘and eamed the reputation of a.“‘player’s _

coach.” He dedicates a lot of time; care, and enthusi-.
asm to his players’ and: program. Sophomore guard
Frank Johnson must think’a lot of him, since he fol-.
year of eligibility in the process. ;

Coach Hussey graduated ian State
in 1962, and for the next eight years he took to coach;
ing at Kings Mountain High School. He was 67-7 :
Kings Mountain, won three conference champion-

lowed Coach Hussey from Belmont Abbey and lost bi

ships, and reached the state finals once: In 1971 heres"

ceived his master's degree. from -Appalachian, and:
then went to Belmont Abbey. a6 ,

Be fs:

d from Appalachian State: e

DAVIDSONIAN) Friday § Noyamber.

corner

Jim Baker

Coach Baker is a 1978 graduate of Catawba Col-
lege, and he stays with Coach Hussey in the transfer
from Belmont Abbey. Coach Baker was an assistant
at the Abbey last season, when the Crusaders went
24-7 and were a basket shy from reaching the NAIA
national tournament.

‘After graduation at Catawba he Stayed on as an
assistant there for a year, moved on to Wingate Col-
lege as an assistant for the 79-80 season, and then

- moved on to Belmont Abbey.;Coach Baker, 24, is

working on his:master’s degreé at UNC-Charlotte.

| Robbie Hicklin - je

- Coach ‘Hicklin comes to Davidson with'a varied

. coaching background. He’ graduated in 1972 from |
Elon College,:and in 1975 he Served:as'an assistant.

for, Coach Hussey-at' Belmont Abbey. In 1976 he
moved on to Coastal’ Carolina University, where he

.. WaS.an assistant as well.

During the three'years prior to his joining the Da-

-vidsoni Staff, he was-hgad ¢oach:at Clewiston High
‘School in Clewiston, Florida. There he coached his

teams to.an overall record of 55-35, and in 1980 he

weet

led his team to a 28-5 season. For that feat he was

chosen Southwest Florida Coach of the Year. a
“* " ‘Hitklin ‘will help with recruiting, floor coaching, | -

and scouting.

he

Rts
ean

oa ‘.
peat

by Steve Soud’84. .

" 4-Coach Vaillancourt, the humorist of the four , will

primarily be in charge of the recruiting “empire” (as
he has referred to it), He came to the Wildcat program

qe;

from the head coach position at Laurel Park High |

> School.in Martinsville, Virginia. _ .
 ««,,Coaeh, Vaillancourt, a 30year old'native of New
vo¥ork, ‘graduated if 1973 from: Gardner-Webb Col-

lege :He went on td Bishop MeGuinness High School
in 'Winston-Salem;* North: Carolina; where he took

_. over duties as head basketball coach and athletic di-

‘2.18 réborditfiete, and in 1977

i¢ James, Madison Universi-

ty in Harrisonburg, Virginia. It was from Madison
that he went to Laurel Parkes 2°75

me
os
cas De

