IDSONI

‘ i “!
' N |
q
. poco y

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The next Trustees’ meeting

| When will there be serious questioning of sexist admissions?

~ This past weekend, in case you missed it, the Trustees paid a visit to
Davidson. They were here for what was primarily a social meeting, but

they did hear D' John: Griffith, the director of admissions, give a progress:

‘report on a study the Trustees. permitted him to undetake last spring.

~ No one knows yet what D’ Griffith is going to conclude from his
study, but some people are excited about it because D’ Griffith is
expected to have something to say about Davidson’s sexually
discriminatory admissions policy. In fact, he was supposed to have had
something to say about our admissions policy two weeks ago at an open
meeting of the faculty, but he cancelled the appearance. |
D’ Griffith’s sudden cancellation and his decison to keep the details of his
study secret indicate that he feels he is dealing. with some touchy
material. -And this should make us feel cautiously glad, for D‘ Griff th’s
keeping a low ‘profile might be a sign of his having something
controversial to say — namely, that the time has come to seriously
challenge the 2:1 male / female ratio.

"Ever since Davidson went coed, the Trustes have tinkered with the ©
1atio, but they have never changed it dramatically. The ratio has
gradually become fairer — that is, it has allowed the admission of

- increasing percentages of women — but never have the Trustees even.

hinted at establishing a timetable for adopting a non-discriminatory

admisions policy.

~ When the Trustees next come.to visit, during the winter, D' Griffith
will have completed his study. We should hope that he will recommend

dramatic changes in the male / female ratio, dramatic enough to make the

Trustees sit up é and take notice.

Last spring a majority of the faculty signed a petition calling for
equal access admissions. We should hope that they will regain their

fervor by the next Trustee visit so that they might convince the Trustees

that there i is some urgency in reforming sexist policy.
What an exciting time it would be to live at Davidson when the

College finally considers ridding itself of its most obvious blemish.

_On the —

with Dave! Banks $82

ae

these:

A friend, ‘who’ fanciés herself : a
something of a besa ‘sends Us.

My. hero?, Well that wel have

Most of ‘he boys: in Miss Mar-

garet | Parker’ 8 second grade class did
“not want fo be stevedores. Nota sin-
-'. glé-oné, in fact, except for little Bil-
ly. But, little Billy said he wanted to
beasteve ore: inst to, get: attention.

Fe Mhoaght hoisting the sail.

Fi ia’

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October gp

iW Bek sess

a My. iunkiate, during my “Fiie:
ab ae year’ ‘of prép school was M' $'\Hel-

“sens, Mostly: I-remember ‘her ‘as’ a.
. good-eater and’ a bit of a ‘prankster.
pole ae wat once. BI heard she.

RL ae

“: . went a little crazy.

gazed hier tannéd dahon: hers
liquid eyes, her functioning rudder...
‘ee could! nail her: to a 'two-by-

es

~ Offal? Never! That’ s  whiat Mom
cried the first time 'I offered | to make
dinner...

a was about seven, as, 1 recall

“The Vomit Raiers.t with Buffie.
_ First, you start kissing real/hard |
— you kiiow, like’ you've seen your —

- mom ‘and. thie: TV dinner man do
when; you: come home: from school —

and peek in her room: anid slip on her
hairpiece for just that extra get-off.
Next: you: farce. your: fongue: down. .
your date’s throat, like a magazine in

wiht Pett Sh o4 ad

aang. This causes seerspend to ft “

gag: Swallowing the ‘tubsoguent
Bi you are provoked to reply in
kind. This sort of give-and-take te-
' gurgitation is best carried on by ac-
complished vomit enthusiasts. a

ea was eal Live this: tim and & ;
* the world was. all: spi ining. ‘Suzette ae
brought home “the wine and the J:

cheesemelts. Although she had, nev-).; oe ;

- ermet him before, she-had‘ heard. on P
“a the: ey mineh sbout. Pic She.

1 a3 yd

