ba

Se HAD
ME FOOLED.

Short Course instructors sought
The College Union is looking for people to teach short c courses
for after Christmas break.
Past courses-have included cooking elasées, crafts, photogra-

‘phy, juggling. Instructors can be professors, staff members, stu-

dents; or any member of the College community.
_ Sign up‘at the Union oesk or the faculty mailroon by Friday, 11
‘December.

| Powers sca veslogasct' Staff ae

_ Vice-President for Development J ack Powers has announced

- four promotions within the Development Department staff.

DF Julius Melton will serve as executive director for resource.”

. development i in addition to continuing as director for planning. giv-

ing. Lee Willingham has become executibve director for constituent

programs, and former Director of Alumni Activities Zach Long will —
- serve as special assistant to the vice presient for development effec-

tive 31 December. Mary Mack Benson has become director of, gift ;

recording and records.
Lot Re development staff is: cuelly searching for a disdctos for
select gifts and anew director of alumni activities. :

Msces

‘Tim Whalen News Editor

John Siman Editor
_ Jeff Mann Asst. News Editor.

Dave Banks Executive Editor

_, Steve Sou Sports Editor

Roy Fuller lenin:
hia Geacione fantoresEahor

inks

Easter Seals money serves the disabled i in the area. Ninety —

m3 James Barvat Opinioris Editor
Frances Palmer Asst. News Editor ey

ss coaioounea Asst, uepiade cae ng ay :

SGA Phonathon

The SGA phonathon raised $27; 040 Aig its.first two nights; te

3 running $7, 040 ahead of pace for its goal of $100, 00 ver 10 nights.

One: hundred ‘seventy. eight donors contributed $14,623-on _ :

‘. Tuesday. and'on Wednesday 182 donors contributed $12,417.

_-» Forty student volunteers made calls each-night. Seniors Chip a
Christian and Jonthan West chaired the phonathon on Tuesday,and
‘senior Stokes Peebles were in charge on Wednesday. .

ae WDAV gallops severe ‘scat

As of Wednesday night, Le WDAV télethon had received

‘ : pledges of $ 17, 640. Their goal i is $50, 000, one third of theradio sta-.
fT. tion’s budget. =~

According to Director of Community Relating Henry Doss,

‘ they are “way ahead of last year” and also ahead of what they ex-
‘ pected, ana

The telethon will continue through Sunday.

a

“

APO Easter. Seals cages:

The Davidson chapter of Alpha Phi Oniéga began a door — to -
door campaign this week to collect donations for Easter Seals. The
carnpaign includes both the college and Davidson community. ARG:
members will be.collecting through 12:December.

“This is one of several service projects we are working on right

now,” said APO Vice President Leslie Mills. “Many APO groups ..
have helped with Eastern Seals before, but this is the first time the -

Davidson chapter has been asked to assist.” Leslie explains that
five
percent of the money collected at Davidson will go to aid

handicapped children and adults in North Carolina. Anyone

interested in collecting. or donating should contact Leslie or APO
President Jim Hooter... |
‘Saturday; members of APO al work at Camp. Dogwood, a

~ local camp for the blind. APO member Joan Redding explains, “We

will be doing: Certain necessary winter time chores at the camp. We ©

will, paint chairs and ney. take care OF the poner upkeep of. the
camp. ae

APO. finished its second booksale of the: year today. The

oieeess from the sale will be sent to ec supnott the Davidson program
a in Kenya. ae

EricLong Head Photographer
Mark Sheffield Photo Production
'. (NeilCooksey Photographer
Elizabeth Elkin Photographer _

Bill Appleton Art Editor
Scot Myers. Staff Artist
PaulSchulz Staff Artist

Todd Swofford Staff Artist

‘DanTurk WorldViewEditor =
i ‘Lucy Everett Calendar Editor"

D iasaiess Advertising Manager 5
"Scot Myers Subscription Manager ti
James Moore Production Manager Mae

sOf Road

Banal Grey rf Becsniber 1981
