Ken Wood . and you what he wants the Careers Office to do for students

There are a lot of erroneous notions around this
college about who Ken Wood is and he’s all about.
To some students, thinking it’s someone else’s re-
sponsibility to get them the perfectjob, he is no help
at all: To them, he is an experiential idealist who has
little sense of the practical side of careers (i.e. high
paying jobs) and who has a little office tucked away in
the basement of the Union where students go to ex-
amine their “inner values and interests.” Ken Wood
and the Careers Office are pretty much misunder-
stood and ignored by most of the students here. Those

students, in the view of the Careers Office, are miss- °

ing out.

Eight years ago, Davidson College received a
federal grant to establish, a co-operative education
program with certain businesses. The college recruit-
ed Ken Wood to develop this into a broadly-based
“career and experiential program.” He pioneered the
“centering-venturing” program, a kind of life-work
planning which has been widely acclaimed across the
country. In it, self-examination (centering) is com-
bined with experiential learning (venturing) in an ef-
fort to help students make career choices.

The office for Experiential Programs and Life-
Work Planning was creative and innovative, but had
to deal with the constant problem of what students
perceived it'to be about. The old title of the office
created an illusion for students that was not aligned
with job placement.

During the past three years, more ‘and more stu-

dents have explored the option of going to work after

Davidson instead of going to graduate school. This,

_Of course, has increased the difficulty of helping them

find jobs. The new title, the Careers Office, is indica-
tive of the new emphasis. The subtitles, though, still
express the old ideas: Experiential Learning, Career
Exploration, and Placement.

Lingering image problems
A new name has not solved everything, however.
“We do have an image problem,” Ken Wood said.
Students still think the whole program is idealistic,
and that “they’ll find everything here but what they
really want — a job.” Many feel that an emphasis on

interests and values is not as important today as it —
_ was, say, in the ’60’s. But Ken Wood thinks those

people are wrong. He doesn’t want the college to
think he couldn’t care less about job placement, but
he sees his job as above all getting students to their
strengths, their interests, and their values.

Within the three main divisions of the Careers
Office, students are given a variety of opportunities to
explore their career interests. The office (including
Ken Wood and his assistant Susie Summers) provides
written resoyrcés, counseling, life-work planning,
internships, externships,and. experiential learning
programs like the Philadelphia Urban Semester Pro-
gram. The Careers Office also provides “how-to”
programs in interviews, writing resumés, job target-
ing, and job hunting strategies. In addition, they or-
ganize the visits of graduate schools and buisnesses.

They do not, however, place students in jobs; they try
to help students help themselves, to “tool themselves
for a.career.”

Focusing on the present
The Careers Office is not so much interested in
success and happiness in the future as they are in
helping students realize what they have to work with

- in the present. “The focus of our office is the here and

now, and not ‘What am I going to do when I grow
up?’ ” Ken Wood said. Getting jobs or getting in a
good graduate school is important, but one has to
know what its for and if he’s doing what he really
wants to be doing. The purpose of all the experiential
programs, internships, and career exploration is so
that each : student can “take a look at what he or she is
and to test that out.” M' Wood said a student can
make straight .A’s at Davidson and still not know
what he can, and wants, to do next.

The Careers Office provides services, training,
and opportunities for students to explore careers, ex-
perience alternatives, and secure jobs doing what
they want to do in life. This is not an “idealistic goal,”
they think, but is as practical a purpose as any.

So many students have come to Ken Wood in the
last eight years asking “What have you got for me?”
that he has a ready answer — “The whole world is
available.”

By David Fleming ’83.

Equal access at Davidson? Admissions policies under evaluation

Last week Director of Admissions John Gniffith
met with the Trustee Executive Committee to present
a progress report of a study he is preparing on David-
son’s admissions policies.

D’ Griffith said that at the meeting last week he
recommended a: procedure for establishing admis-
sions policy in the light of the study. He said the
Committee discussed his recommendation, but
reached no decision.

D‘ Griffith asked the Trustees last spring to reé-
valuate the admissions policy, and they approved his
proposal to conduct a study weighing the pros and

cons of the current 2:1 male to female ratio. The study

consists of compiling comprehensive statistics on

athletes, minority students, women, alumni children _

and international students at Davidson and using this
data to formulate admissions policy. Griffith added
that there is still some-work to be done on the study.

and that it should be made public when it is completed

sometime next term...
The Trustees, who make admissions policy deci-
sions, will consider making policy changes at their

winter meeting. If they wait until later to make any ~

changes, the changes will not affect this year’s ad-
missions.

D' Griffith said admissions policy should be con-
tinually evaluated. Issues such as special considera- ©
tion for alumni children and athletic admissions poli-

cy are-long standing. Other issues such as male // fe-

male ratio, and special considerations for. minority
and international students are relatively recent devel-
opments which need t0 be coopera D Griffith 4

said.

dressed on admissions policies is important and needs
to be addressed.” Griffith said. “I think we are mov-

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981

“T think that every singe area: that I have ad- z

ing to amore comprehensive understanding of admis-
sions policy.”

One reason for the reévaluation of admission pol-
icies by the Trustees is an indication by the faculty
that they are not pleased with these policies. Last
spring, the faculty approved a propsal by Philosophy
Professor Robert Maydole requesting the Board of
Trustees establish a-sex — ~ blind admissiqns policy.

Dp Griffith emphasized that.a large pait of the dis-
cussion on admissions is concerned with clarifying
the two areas of admissions — policy and standards.

While the Trustees control policy decisions such as
the ones mentioned above, the faculty control aca-
demic standards for admissions through the Faculty
Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid. One
person from the Admissions Office and two faculty
members review each candidate for admission.

He added that faculty input is an important part of
the admissions process. “I feel that the integrity of the
faculty control of admissions is important to main-
tain.

_ By Jeff Holland ’ 84.

photo by Tim Boyer 84
