Haute couture _ -
_ The BSC sponsors Fall Fashion Show |

“Autumn glow is reflected in deep purple, rose
and gold sunset: .
in the warmth of a new friendship and very specially
in the color, textures and styles of autumn costumes.”

Thus did M™ Pamela Stephenson introduce the
Black Student Coalition’s first annual Fall Fashion
Show held on Sunday in the 900 Room. The BSC’s
Special Events Committee organized the show in
conjunction with the Student Union. Juniors P.J.
Whitlock and Suzanne Hutchings were in charge. M™

.Pamela Stephenson, a part-time receptionist at Da-
vidson who has previous experience at other fashion
shows, was the commentator for the show. Clothes
were provided by Casual Corner, Chess King, and
Richman.

Twelve Davidson students made their first at-

 -fempt at modelling. Warm lighting, soft music and

candlelit tables, reminiscent of beautiful cold autumn
days spent with a loved one, contributed to the pro-

fessional presentation of the show. ’

The twelve students, who themselves chose the

clothes they modelled, brought to Davidson's often.

New in 1 Sociology —

Janet Grigsby and Kathleen Reichs settle into Davidson

Janet Grigsby and Kathleen. Reichs, new profes-
sors in the Sociology Department, are finding David-
son College to be a satisfying place to teach.

“I like the contact with the students,” said D'
.Grigsby. “I attended a small, liberal arts college
[Oberlin]...and I have a great appreciation for the
type of education they offer. D* Reichs expressed
similar sentiment saying “The, students are wonder-
ful... _ the best group from the colleges I’ve taught at.

‘After graduating from Oberlin College in Ohio,
peop ha. nay rocky ~deckeply on

search. Tee ie kan g

she said, “but I have had to adjust to the ten week

term.”
“Inher leisure time — if such a thing exits for any-

one.at Davidson — SO Pe ae

Remon ei

Professor Janet Grigsby _

. in the rosy cheeks of a tiny goblin;

drab faded blue jeans “(and khakis) environment a
touch of class. and interesting variety. Styles.ranges
from sports, casual and evening wear to what the or-
ganizers called the “vogue” presenting high fashions.
Sophomore Leon Mason seemed to score a touch-
down far from the football field as he drew approval
from the audience for his stage antics and his choice

in-clothes. There was wide applause for all the mod-

els, especially some of the girls who looked like pin-
ups-come-alive from a fashion magazine. One would
never have believed that hidden among Davidson’s
alligators existed such chic.

-P.J. Whitlock said the BSC got the idea from oth-
er schools who have held fashion shows. She said the
show “would enlighten Davidson students and make
them aware of the current different styles,” She
hoped the show ‘wotild help bring variety to: the
school.

The Fashion Show v was the Special Events Gsiet:
mittee’s fitst vent for the year: Future plans include
holding : a Fund Raising Pizza Sale. pe

By Mahmond Sandal "84

to WDAV.

Kathleen Reichs is from Chicago. She attended
American University and Northwestern, where she
rceived her Ph.D. She has found that Davidson stu-
dents “are highly motivated and. . . interested in do-
ing well. Comparing Davidson to the other colleges
where she has taught, she said, “It’s more conserva-
tive.” This term she is teaching Introductory Cultural

. Anthropology and Introduction’ to Human Origins.
_ She mentioned that she would augment classroom in-
struction with laboratory excersises but Davidson has

yet to obtain: the lab facilities that would make this

. possible: In addition'to teaching, D Reichs serves as a

consultant’ for: the. Charlotte-Mecklenburg police
Crime ia and Medical Examiner’ $ Oeics.

Both. Dt Grigsby ‘aia Dp Reichs: ‘expiéaied con-

fidence ittthe Davidson Honor Code. They say they

have enjoyed teaching at Davidson thus far and are

2 pleased that their expectations of the college have

been confirthed: D* Grigsby, however, added that it is
“apt as Biobad F expected itp te here.” s

By Rod Holman "85.

Be Gg ae DAVIDSONIAN' “Friday 6 November 1981
