by Elizabeth Laughlin ‘85

Lind a Fro St . ‘Linda Frost; one of the additions to the full-time

faculty at Davidson this year, is a welcome

N to th G erman Department : “newcomer” to the German department. She and her

ewcomer to the ep husband, Dr. Christopher Frost, moved to Davidson

last year so that he could assume a teaching position

in the Classics department. Mrs. Frost taught German
part-time last year.

Ms. Frost received her B.A. from Calvin
College, a small, private, liberal arts college in
Michigan. She then spent a year in a German high
school before coming back to the University of
Cincinnati to earn her M.A. in German. She is
presently working on her dissertation for her Ph.D.
from the University of Cincinnati.

Ms. Frost has been to Germany several times,
including the winter term of her sophomore year at
Calvin College, the first semester of her junior year
on the National Work-Study Program run by the
University of Cincinnati, and in 1976 for.a seminar
on “U.S. and European Commerce.” She hopes to
return to Germany next summer.

Describing the evolution of her interest in
German, Mrs. Frost explained that she had a bad
Latin teacher in high school and was consequently
“too timid” for college Latin. Her second choice of a
foreign language was Spanish, but because_the
Spanish classes had been filled, she landed in
German by chance. After spending part of her
sophomore year submerged in the culture, putting her’
knowledge of the language to work, she decided to
become a German major.

Mrs. Frost is currently teaching two beginning
German classes, and will teach the continuation of
these classes plus an “Introduction to German

Literature of the Twentieth Century” class during the
winter term.

Tonight in
Love Aulditorkum UNION POP FILMS PRESENTS

892- 75

-TWO FOR ONE SALE-

CLIP THE COUPON AND SAVE!

| Shows at
8 & 10:30 pm

Buy One Teco

Gat ‘Ove REEL

Tare ie this eine’
and receive one taco
Bree for every. one
ordered. :

Bay One Mexi-burger
“eet One =

eae

’ ae i
or season’s pass a Wildwood Enterprises Production "Ordinary People”

Donald Sutherland + Mary Tyler Moore « Judd Hirsch + Timothy Hutton
Music Adapted'by Marvin Hamiisch *
- ‘Screenploy by'Alvin Sargent - Produced by Ronald L, Schwary
Directed by RobertRedford AParamount Picture ee

imeven ae] Conyers. MCMAXXX by Paramount Petes Corpornton

Rieu arte : Aa Pegs Rasareas

pg bia ie canyon
elve one

3 th ‘Mexi-burger

with every one ordered.

Valid EONOR 2 aoe

saeilbincibie Singin ahinein spain ste Sean in wins!

Valid through 24 Oct.

ede Cases Seb Waweewedwewaet

y

oo
fesSSSSSSccSSSSOEZSCISSTSESSoOOE

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16-October 1981 | 7
