Friday 25 September 1981

Editor -
The Davidsonian
Box 218

Davidson, NC 28036

Sexist subscription ad

To the Editor:
~ About that advertisethent depicting the male read-
er of the Davidsonian on page seven of this year’s first
issue. Was it designed to expand or limit circulation?
If the ad conveys the appeal which the newspaper
staff wishes to make to Davidson students and gradu-
ates, it is designed for a minuscule group of men and
for an even more restricted group of women — those
who peer appreciatively Over men’s shoulders at what

is Originally interesting only to men. It seems strangely ©

self-defeating for a newspaper deliberately to exclude
large segments of the public from its readership even as
a bad joke.

Perhaps the women on campus who do read for
themselves need to take the ad’s message seriously.
What’s in the Davidsonian for us?

Prof. Patricia Edmondson

Fall Prospects

To the Editor:

In response to J-boy’s survey of Fall prospects,
i.e. freshmen coeds:

Anyone can watch sports, several think they can
coach; but only a few play the game well.

What’s the matter, Davidson gentlemen . . . need
an introduction?

Lindsay L. Biddle ’83

Stop the equinox

To the Editor:
Each year at this time, while most people are ig-

norantly going about their business, a horrible event:

takes place. I refer of course to the autumnal equinox.
‘For years, people have allowed this dreadful occur-
rence, which marks the relative movement of the sun
into the southern celestial hemisphere, to go unnoticed.

We of the Coalition Against the Autumnal Equinox be- —

lieve that it is time something was done.

Because of this equinox, we are plunged into the
dreaded winter doldrums, while those in the southern
hemisphere are able to enjoy the long days and warm
weather which should be ours. It seems likely that our
jolly leader and sometime president M™ Reagan is a

supporter of this underhanded plot which, by decreas-

ing both the chance to use solar power and the tempera-
ture, places the consumer at the mercy of his allies, the
large oil companies.

This year. we officially protested ‘the autumnal
equinox, but it occured nonetheless. However, our or-
ganization is gaining strength, and, with your help, we
can stop.the equinox. Next spring, the vernal equinox
will mark our regaining of the sun, and after that, we
will never let the southern hemispherians have it back
again. What can you do to help this worthy cause? Boy-
cott products from the southern hemisphere, write your
Congressman, and join your local CAAE chapter, .To-
gether, Wwe can put an end to this outrage. Let’s stop the
equinox NOW?

Charlie Lovett ’84
Chairman

po Coalition Against the _

Aline Equinox

DAVIDSONIAN. ssi sé age 3

What kind of woman
reads the Davidsonian?

(A revised version of the offending ad)

What kind of man

reads the Davidsonian?

Sa ad that piqued Professor Edmondson)

savas ieiiibictiiiaietmiajaia
