New building sche tule to open by April 1983

neian tiie daene:

ing to the Post Of will be changing. ThePost Office
ocated by April 1983.

Po el John Fisher, saith be expects

the new Post Office to be built in the vacant lost behind

' ouse Da esc pe eal

quate ae aril ge growing town. All the
4 : ed and more room is need
for those people wainting to rent a box. ‘The new Post
Office’ will be twice the size of the present one. ale

‘According to Business Manager Robert Currie, the
College and the town decided two years ago that the
Post Office should be relocated. He said that U. S. Pos-
tal Service leases the Post Office. building from the
College. The Postal Service held a twenty year lease
that expired in 1980. Since that time the College has
given the Post Office a series of three one-year leases.’
The current lease expires in Spring 1983, and Currie
said the College has decided not to renew it.

Moving the Post Office fits in well with the town’s
downtown development program, according to Town
Planning Commission Chairperson Rosemarie. Burts.
M® Burts said, the town prefers the “expanding of
downtown behind theratiron ree ie instead, of up and
down Main Street.”

_. Currie‘said the Collies plans to move the ‘student
store in to the present post office. ‘He also said that relo-
cating the post office in the middle of downtown would
lead to more interaction sites the students of the

College and the merchants and townupeogle of David-
-son.

kbs Burts agreed that the new post office would
serve as an “anchor” for the future growth of David-
-son’s downtown. ”

A new post office is scheduled to open in Davidson in
the spring of 1983. The College will decide what to

do with the old post at eee k in the:near future.
; __ photo by Neil Cooksey "63

Currie neice that perhaps the space the student
store currently occupies in the Union could be used to
expand WDAV,

By Deepak Sawhney '84.

Studer tC onduct Council
Council decides to release convictions,
sanctions, and appeals each term

The Student Conic Council (SCC), acting on a
proposal from: Davidsonian Editor John Siman, de-
cided in a closed méeting on 16 November to regularly
release more information about the final dese of

College: has in the ‘past.
_ The SCC decided to melon Naisematon at ihe be-
ginning of each term “as to the number of Honor Code
or Code of Responsibility. cases that are heard by the
Honor Council or by:the Dean’ s:Office, the number of
convictions, types of sanctions for violations, and the
number of appeals heard,” accoming to the minutes of
the meeting.: .
Dean..of deals Will Terry ‘said, that offenses

would ; not be linked to sanctions in order to preserve

the arionymity of the students involved. Sanctions will

be broken-down into. Honor Code and Code.of Respon-

sibility categories, however. Information on. last

term’s cases should be available.“by next week Ph Dean

_ Terry said. He said he could not provide the informa-
tion sooner because some cases were still pending.

* John ‘was not invited to the meeting. Dean Terry

said the John was not invited because, “We felt we had

all we needed in his letter:”

Ina 2 October open letter, John asked the SCC to

release the new. information for two reasons. The. first
was to make the Honor System more visible. “Once
[students] read that their-peers are tried and punished
for violations, they will be more conscious that the
same standards apply to them,” he wrote. The second
was to make the Systém more accountable to the: Col-
lege community. The letter said, “The Dean of Stu-

- dents: and Honor Council will be less likely to hand |
down punishments that are unfair or inconsistent with”

other ‘punishments. Once their decision are Open to

public scrutiny, they will be forced to justify to the

community any decisions that seem less than just.”
_, 1 several conyersations, SCC members seemed to

~

agree that the Honor System should be more visible.
However, they either did not agree that acccountability
is necessary for a just system, or thought it impossible
to allow public scrutiny of the Honor System while still
protecting the anonymity of the students involved.

John said of the decision, “It bothers me that the
SCC didn’t consider putting checks on the System. We
can’t take it on faith that the Honor System works well.
You have to check up on things in order to make sure
that they do. I think Dean Terry can be capricious, and
it’s possible that his personal feelings might affect the
outcome: of many of the cases he handles.. For reasons
like this I think there should be mechanisms for check-
ing up on how the System is handled.”

In other business the SCC accepted a motion to
make two changes in the Code of Disciplinary Proce-

“dure. The minutes of the meeting said the first proposal

is to “change the length of time for a person to appeal to
the Review Board or the President from ten to five
days. ” The second proposal said that “*When a student

- is suspended, he / she shall ordinarily leave the campus

within 48 hours after the conclusion of his / her judicial
process: A. suspended student shall not come on.cam-"
pus without the permission. of the Dean of Students.”

- Dean Terry said the SCC will reconsider these two

proposals for final adoption. at another ou tea ‘ina
few weeks.” ,

By Jeffrey Mann.’ 83
