Race for
Davidsor ian
—.

Jeb Benedict opposes Stewart Cauley

Sophomore Stewart Cauley will be running against
sophomore Jeb Benedict in Tuesday's election for the
next Davidsonian editor, Junior John Robbins signed
up to run with Jeb, but he decided to drop-out of the
campaign. Thursday night, after this interview was
conducted. John’s comments have. been left in the arti-
cle to provide the correct context for the other two:can-
didate’s remarks. The following is an abridged tran-

scription of a taped interview with the candidates.

‘Some of the answers are presented here in a different
order than that in which they eaemiig in the interview.

Davidsonian: Why did’ you decide to.run for éditor?

' Stewart: I see three reasons. One, I like reading a good:

newspaper, and if that means ‘editing it myself, I’m
‘ willing to do that. Two. .

- ified enough to do it. I think I'can handle running the

“paper, and think I eve Smee er oe to put out a

good paper;

‘John: We ‘decided to fun: for editors because it gives us»:
a chance to have some input into the newspaper, tosee-
our views and our way of. handling ‘things, to experss Sh

that we would like it to be [balanced.].

Jeb: What we wanted to do was sort of teorient the pa-

pet to a. balanced point of view.
_Davidsonian: When did you decide to. run?.

Stewart: About the middle of lastterm..

Jeb; We talked about it as early as October. The com-
~ mitment to it came just recently, from seeing. who else
. Was running.

Davidsonian: What qualifies you ‘above anyone else to
run. the Davidsonian? We would like a concise state-
ment of where you stand and why you are ‘the best man
or team for the job.

Stewart: I know ‘ia this. paper runs ina I think I'can
handle almost all the technical things and can handle

writing and research. I think I have enough people who

work forme and with me to put out a good paper. Thave
the time and dedication. I would not have any sana

a ae aaa ".“ DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981

. Llike working with'the pa-
per, words, and the like; and lastly, I think I’m qual-

\

ity conflicts in the office. Ta am n willing to listen to any
sort of views.

Jeb: John and 1 think that with our experience and our
* dedication to Davidson, as opposed to our own ideas

about what is right or righteous — we think it is our at-

» titude.
‘Stewart: You said. you were.not worried about what is ©

right, -but what is right for Davidson?
Jeb: Yes, I’m not saying that we’re not worried about

. what was {right] — but we are both committted to this
‘school and the spirit of it. Ftalked to Dean Terry about

this — being actively concerned about the community

- health of Davidson College and doing:our best to inain-
tain it without polarizing students'from students, stu- | ~
dents: from administration, or students.from faculty on
certain questions like tenure which is pretty: touchy

business. The students have only limited say.

nure for professors, the Honor Code. I think it should
report news accurately, analyze this. news. without do-

ding it subjectively, and that the editorial should be sé-

parate from the-news. I think the newspaper should
provide entertainment, and it should also educate peo-

ple, This is.something I really think it ‘should do. For

naar eiail what are: goods movies to see, good books to
read.

Jeb: Stewart and I are. quite. a bit different i in that we

{John and Jeb] feel the paper ought to reflect opinions
rather than stamp it. I don’t think the paper should take
a specific stance. It shouldn’t be a mouthpiece of any-
one in particular. It should be a balance. On any issue,

“you should have atwo- sided approach toit. Lalsothink
_ that we should be very, very cautious about going into. :
some areas where there should be some judgement @x- |

“two people. It makes things more efficient t
Jeb: We think that a team is a better approact
“uals. of two different backgroun
sources of common sense keep each other i in line. Two
people can handle the job more responsibly than can

> sone cItwill be easier ‘for the editor to be more accessible
~ Davidsonian: What role do you think the * Davidsonian “<

_ should play in the College community?
Stewart: I think the editorial staff or editor should take
‘a starid on issues, and smake-statements like, ‘These
things are-important forus.” Thing |
academics, getting a new President for the College _
{President Spencer i is due to retire in a few years}, t te-

s like athletics-vsi

Stewart Cauley

cretion:

Devidschieds Stewart, why are you running by your-

self? [and, to John and Jeb ‘} why are you running asa

team?

Stewart: In the past, there have been problems with

_ two people: having equal repsonsibility. 1 think: that if
-you have one person who will handle large amounts of

the organization without personality conflicts, it is

probably better torun it this way. Itis important to have
“a unified direction, and that is a lot easier having: one

person with a lot of support of the staff than i itis having

appre Individ-
‘and two different

* when he'is in two persons.
John: tis a shared workload, and not as. s time-consum:
ing ‘for either oft us, although there ‘may? be some dupli-
cation. . a,

Have’ you worked ripeiher before?.-

Jeb: With the Phi Society, but as journalism goes, no.
So much the better, so that my views are different from
“his views, and we can-be sure that the pater will not

reek with particular attitudes.
Davidsonian: How much time do you expect to put into

“the editorship?
- Stewart: I can’t: see spending less. than 40 hours a

week, and I have an equal commitment from [sopho-
more] Brian Butler. In the past it has been much more
than that:

: Jeb: It goes back to how you organize your fran. The
“way we look at it, it may take ten hours a week for both
- of.us.. You never know, since there are two of us, it

makes it that much better. We have figured how much
time we can put into this without failing out. ‘We be-
lieve that with two of us, we can Swing it much better-

_ even if it gets to one week that we have to spend ten or

twelve hours a week each on it, or more.
