‘Old South’ represents many years of degradation for Blacks

Alvin Atkinson ‘81

As members of the KA fraternity
prepare to celebrate their “Old South
Weekend,”’ we, the Black Student
Coalition, feel that it is imperative to
inform the entire college community of
our sentiments concerning this event
and the KA fraternity.

The BSC is not myopic. We under-
stand that such practices as ‘‘Old
South”’ are not indicative of a pervasive
racist attitude underlying the KA frat-
ernity, nor of racist sentiments among
its members. We hold no qualms with
the members of KA; we do object,
however, to their annual celebration of a
period which, for blacks, signifies the
greatest degradation and oppression
that our people have ever suffered. It is
impossible to divorce the splendor of
that period enjoyed by a few from the
gross iniquities suffered by many.

The resuscitation of this period of
history, even as ‘‘mere tradition” with-
out any traces of racism or advocacy of
black oppression on the part of KA
members, evokes feelings, not of nos-
talgia, but rather of disgust, hate, and
pain on behalf of blacks. The KA
fraternity has perceived the prevailing
discontent among black students con-
. cerning ‘‘Old South” and has agreed to
make concessions. But these concessions
serve only as a pacifier while the Old
South celebration goes on relatively
unaltered. The concessions may ease the
collective conscience of KA, but they
function only as a smoke screen behind
which the practice continues.

We are aware of the discussion among
the KA members regarding the issue of
whether or not to continue this annual
celebration. This discussion is admirable
and shows a growing sensitivity toward
the black situation. In spite of all that is
being said and done, however, it is our
opinion that the celebration of ‘‘Old
South”’ perpetuates the racist image
associated with the KA fraternity. This
‘stigma can only be dispelled if the KA
members resolve to discontinue this

tradition. We feel that if the decision is

made without coercion, without counter-

marches, without blatent protest, with-
out any. external influences, there can
develop a more stable relationship
conducive to open and honest inter-
change between black students and KA
members.

Major steps are being taken to

increase the communication and co-
operation between BSC and KA, and it
is obvious that these are steps in the
right direction. We believe that other
organizations should follow KA’s lead in
trying to create better relations with
black students and the BSC, as it is only
through such cooperative efforts that we
can achieve better relations on campus.

In the meantime, the BSC will continue
to voice its oppostion towards ‘‘Old
South Weekend’’, and will endeavor
wherever necessary to promote aware-
ness, sensitivity, and change.

Alvin Atkinson is a senior economics
major from Brunswick, Georgia, and a
member of the BSC.

Davidson evokes kind words froma former cynic...

I had forgotten how beautiful this
place could be in spring. Since my job
had me getting up at a quarter of six, the
alarm clock in my head decided to stick
with the program, rather than letting me
sleep late. In retrospect, it is a decision I
do not regret, although at the time I was
not too pleased. I puttered around my
room until it was light enough to see: the
dawn was grey, sort of washed-out, but
despite that, the air had a clarity to it I

had never seen before.
On a whim, I walked over to the

campus, sat in front of Chambers, and
just looked for the longest time. There
were no people around, not even the
groundskeepers. On this chilly gray
morning, I shared the campus with only
the birds and the wind.

In the early quiet, I found it hard to
remember why I had been so unhappy
here for so long. The time I have spent
away from here has made me realize just
how unfettered and carefree my days
here were. The small, petty bitcheries
that had plagued me were powerless
against the spring morning.

Since the end of my freshman year, I
have promised myself a final, spectacu-
lar letter in the paper, venting my spleen
against this place, and all the anger and
frustration it has caused me. This is
what that long-planned diatribe has
become. Is this then the magic of
Davidson: the self-censoring of every-
thing that clouds the image of this place?
I hope that it is something more.

On Graduation Day, I will leave this
campus wearing the ring that will bind
me with the memories and traditions of
Davidson.

The memory will not fade, for I have
faith: not in the students, the professors,
or even in God, but faith in faith, belief
in the dream that somewhere in the
ideals of Davidson there is something
worthy of belief.

I believe that I have found such a
thing. I cannot tell you what it is, for
each person finds some different touch-
stone here. But finding it has made a
great difference. I look back now, not in
anger, but with affection, and even love.
Mark Newman is a Pre-Med Major from
Columbia, S.C. Newman is on leave this
term working at a hospital, and will
graduate this spring.

..and a gentle visitor

When I read Cathy Hemenway’s
article ‘‘Foreign students intrigued by
religion, homesick for hugs and walks”
(Davidsonian, April 24), I felt frustra-
ted by the thoughts expressed by my
fellow international students. I think
they spoke frankly, and I understand
how they feel, because I also find this
culture 3000 miles from home strange at
times. But I think they forgot something
important.

In my year here, I’ve tried to do
everything in the American way. This is
how it should be, as the old proverb
says.

When I stayed in New York with a
Japanese family last Christmas break,
the kids, who are elementary students,
asked me, laughing, why Americans kiss
so much. I answered, “‘Because they are
American, they just want to do so.”” We
Japanese don’t feel comfortable kissing

as Americans do. What is wrong with
that?

I have had a nice experience here.
Cultures differ, but I have found that
people are people.

Also, I can now see my own country
objectively. And I can see what Ameri-
cans think of my country. I have been
disappointed by how ignorant they are.
Some people asked me if Japan is part of
China, or if Japanese is Mongolian.

I was not homesick because I know
when I return to Japan I will once more
do everything the Japanese way. I want
to see the good points of America, as
much as possible, and take them back as
souvenirs. As the article said, I will go
back as a different person—but I believe

I have gained much more than I have
lost.

Masayasu Muraki is an International
student from Japan.

Two-tier bid system would not serve the interests of freshmen

~ Mike Mason ‘83

As freshmen, we are set upon the familiar doorsteps
of secure freshmen halls, given blunt kicks in the
general direction of Patterson Court, and told to
become socially accepted. On certain nights, whole
herds of freshmen migrate house to house, like so many
pieces looking for the rest of their particular puzzle.

And under the moonlight, the tentative voices of:

religious doubt whisper uncertainties: Is there social
life after freshman year? Is oral encouragement actually
a form of sexual desire? Why did the girl in the last
house wear a scuba suit and sing ‘‘Blue Bubble
Bayou?”

Sooner or later, some young prophet descends to the
hall with the ordained answers. Eagerly we cluster
around as he proclaims the inexorable doctrine of
self-selection. I remember the night such an emissary
visited my freshman hall. It was late and we were
getting ready for bed, when suddenly we became aware
of a presence in luminous blue. Folds of flowing oxford
cloth, standing silently in the dark hallway. Was he
there to give us the undefined but much awaited ‘‘oral
encouragement?’’ Eagerly we clustered around, some
young upstart impetuously reaching for the healing
hem of his button-down. ‘It is not yet time,”’ the vision
intoned, anticipating our question and staring with

- dismal condemnation at the perturbed upstart.

Suddenly our rush prophet underwent a miraculous
transformation. He had appeared at first intangible,
somehow unreachable; yet with a tremendous mental
effort, during which expressions of repugnance and
distaste scuttled like clouds across his initiated face,
he managed to appear as if he were one of us. Doing his
best to maintain the illusion, he grinned idiotically and
moved through the clutching crowd; suddenly he was
full of free advice and the answers to all our questions
about that great mystery, self-selection.

Moving room to room, he eventually came back to

mine—I had stupidly neglected to sprinkle my lintel
with Slater dressing so that he might pass us over. My
none-too-zealous roommate looked up briefly from his
French book and continued reading, leaving me the
object of this apparition’s verbosity. Slowly the
prophet outlined the better life that was to be ours after
freshman year, if only we would apply ourselves to a
very few important tasks in this existence.

But insidious doubt lingered in our infidel minds.
The prophet described the virtues of his particular
heaven in great detail; asked the purpose of the
clandestine ‘‘oral encouragement” ritual, he agreed to
reveal an obscure doctrinal truth. He winked, and
replied, ‘‘well, there has to be some way to exclude
people you don’t want to associate with...”

And now another prophet rises up, one who would
deliver us from thebondage of self-selection. His
doctrine is the ‘‘two-tier’’ system, a form of
institutionalized snobbery to do exactly as it sounds—
divide Davidson society into two tiers, upper and lower.

Everybody’s a ‘‘snob’’ of sorts; however, the
difference between an individual's refusal to associate
with someone and a group's refusal to do so, is that. the
individual’s judgement is made generally on realistic
criteria—that is, criteria which accurately describe the
personalities of those judged. A group cannot possibly
employ realistic criteria in its assessment of an
individual; those criteria require time that each
individual person in the group can’t attend to put in to
meeting an endless series of strange freshmen. Instead,
the group must rely on more superficial, less
time-consuming criteria—appearance, social ability,
and so forth. 7

A “two-tier” system would encourage ‘‘upper-tier’”’
reliance on the latter criteria, as is the case with all bid
systems.

Still, while some may insist that freshmen have the

‘right to be fairly evaluated, fraternities may insist that

they have the right to use whatever criteria they desire,
“fair’’ or not. After all, ‘‘fair’’ is a pretty relative term.
In such a case, the rights of freshmen may be balanced
by the rights of the fraternity.

There are other rights involved, however. In every
freshman class, there are those students who don’t
have their doors beaten down by rushing fraternities.
Instead, they make their way around the court as best
they can, falling mostly into eating houses and into
accepting fraternities. These people have not been
exposed to the games and psuedo-sophisticated
nuances of social climbing. ;

If the fraternities go to a bidding system, the
responsibility for taking in those freshmen will fall
upon the eating houses. When fraternities bid, they ~
open themselves to a select minority and close
themselves to those who could probably gain the most
from their company. The eating houses are open to
both; inevitably, the needier, less active segment will
gravitate towards the eating houses in numbers much
greater than before, since the fraternities. will no longer
absorb the portion they now do. Thusthe eating
houses become the lower tier, their integrity as social
organizations mitigated by their having become
“dumping grounds,” of sorts.

If the fraternities go to bidding, the wiser eating
houses may be forced to devise some rough equivalent
as well. In such a socially apocalyptic situation, are the
interests of the freshmen really served? Not at all;
many might even prefer the Commons to the circus
hoops they must jump through to get into a house.
Perhaps the answer lies in the other extreme—enforced
self-selection. But no. I mean, it couldn’t work. Not
really.

Mike Mason is a sophomore and almost a philosophy
major. °
