April 24, 1981—The Davidsonian—9 _

New Journalism pioneer Tom Wolfe

By DONALD CALDWELL
Staff Writer

Tom Wolfe—‘‘the man in the white linen suit’’—is
coming to Davidson.

Wolfe will be the featured speaker at Spring
Convocation this Friday. He will also present this
year’s Vereen Bell Creative Writing Award.

“I’m going to'speak Friday about the rediscovery of
America,” Wolfe said in a telephone interview this
week. .

“The general theme is that after 81 years of the 20th
century we’re finally beginning to look at the country in
a reasonable way. We've had a major change in the
intellectual climate in the past five years.”’

Known widely as the leading ‘“‘New Journalist,”
Wolfe gained notariety during the mid-1960’s with
books on subcultures within American society. His first
work, The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine Flake Streamline
Baby, documents the exploits of stock car racer and
North Carolina bootlegger Junior Johnson. Subjects of
Wolfe’s later books include surfers, acid trippers, New
York literati, and Air Force fighter pilots. His most
recent book, The Right Stuff, concerns the early
astronauts of the 1960’s.

Yet Wolfe’s success has not been entirely dependent
on his knack for finding unusual subjects. His electric
style, a mixture of journalistic accuracy and novelistic
imagination, infuses his subjects with a liveliness
seldom found in contemporary fiction of the traditional
mold. His success, if it can be judged by the number of
his imitaters, had been overwhelming and has provoked
new discussion on the nature of the novel itself.

Wolfe is now working on a short book about
architecture to be published in August.

“It’s going to be a sequel to the book I wrote on
painting, The Painted Word. I had planned to call it
Under the I-Beams, but now I’ve decided to change it
to From Bauhaus to Outhouse.”’

“The book will be a social history to explain how this
country came to adopt European and, more specifical-
ly, German worker housing as its main architectural
form.”

Wolfe has not yet exhausted the range of American
subcultures. Three groups interest him as potential
material for future writing, he said.

“The most interesting groups today are the various
religious movements, of which there are a great many.
If they’re really disliked they’re known as cults. If
they’re mildly disliked they’re called sects. When they
gain more adherents they graduate into religions.”

“T’d also like to look into American high schools and

4 , eartwe. 38 tet
oo Pefl hS he,

Pe ti tiereag% wtRE
aerbe i mee Sacad sf

pe pe om the fe a at *

Lee 68

tee g | pewcn ete Bee ~ 8

* eo oe F %

pre la friday lat
Dah ou bOW te

3
Ad dorwnl

(David McCurry)

the way they’re broken down by social class, interests,
etc.”’

“A third group that I find interesting is the cable
vision linesmen, the people that lay these wires into
people’s houses all over the country. The cables are
pretty treacherous. They can snap back and hurt pretty

badly. In essence, there’s an element of danger there,:

which is all it takes to start a status group
going...anything that challenges the sense of mascu-
linity.”’

~ Wolfe felt that the country’s mood today is more
optimistic than has been the case in the recent past.

has the ‘Right Stuff’

“T honestly think there’s less cynicism now than at
any time during the last fifteen years. I think this is
apparent in the shuttle flight. There seemed to be a
geniune interest, not the jaded feeling present when the
last Apollo flights were going up in the early 1970's.

As an expert on astronauts following his research for
The Right Stuff, Wolfe was particularly impressed with
last week’s successful shuttle mission.

“It all went so smoothly that we tend to forget how
dangerous it really was. The first rest flight of any new
vehicle is dangerous, no matter how many computers
you’ve got. You’ve got to have those men who are
willing to face the risk, the card player with the mask
on his face...that’s death.”

“The commander of the flight, John Young, has
vintage right stuff. He’s from the second group of
astronauts that were chosen in the early ‘60’s, the
cocky fighter jock type. He’s cut from the old cloth.”

“Crippen, though, came out of the last group chosen.
He’s been waiting for this flight for years and there are
so many others in line for flights now that he probably
wonders if he’ll get another one. That’s rough, as if
your were telling a writer he could only write one
book.” ;

When asked if there was a first break in his career,
Wolfe laughed and said, ‘‘My first break was thrust
upon me by fate...I went to Esquire with an idea for an
article on customized cars, never having writtena single
long piece in my life. Like a lot of people, I had been
getting by on low voltage thrills...seeing my name in
print and things like that.”

“IT researched the story and when I sat down to put it
on paper I just couldn’t do it. I called my editor who
told me to type up my notes and send them over. He
said he’s find someone else to write it up.

‘‘With a heavy heart I typed out 48 pages of
information in the form of a memorandum and sent it to
the office about 9:00. Since the photo plates were
already set, they couldn’t hold the story.

“My editor called later in the day to say he was
dropping the first line I wrote and was publishing the
rest as it stood. The article went over well, and I was
relieved.”’

The next two newspapers Wolfe worked for went out
of business. ‘‘I took this as a hint,’ he said, ‘‘A writer
has to learn to work for himself.’’ Since then he has
been a free-lance writer.

One more question. Does the linen-clad mannekin
with the fiberglass smile in Chambers bother him?

Wolfe laughed. ‘‘No. As long as people buy my books
it’s all right...”

Foreign students intrigued by religion, homesick for hugs and walks

By CATHY HEMENWAY

cans have to be patriotic because it’s the

shock people. It would seem artificial

ed, ‘Something abstract that I can’t

Staff Correspondent

Do Davidson international students
find their year in a new culture 3000
miles from home worthwhile? Four of
them—Didier Valery from Montpellier,
France, Suzi Klaus from Marburg, West
Germany, Harriet Hoshuijsen from Hol-
land, and Monique Daam from Belgium
— seemed pleased overall with their year
at Davidson. But they agreed that one
year was enough.

The four said their preconceived
notion that Americans were assertive
and friendly was confirmed when they
arrived at Davidson last fall. But later,
they found it difficult to establish close
relationships, especially with the ‘‘typi-
cal” Davidson student. ‘“‘The type of
people we attract are quite often those
who have been to Europe. They seem to
understand us better. It’s easier to talk
to them,’’ Holshuijsen said.

“We're different sometimes,” Holsh-
uijsen admitted. Valery said his “‘for-
eignness’”’ made him an object of
curiosity at times. “‘At first I felt like
some kind of strange animal from
France,” he said, “Now it’s not that
bad.”’ Klaus added, “I don’t want to be
looked at as a person from Germany; I
want to be accepted as myself.”

How does Davidson social life appeal
to them? ‘Man, exciting!’’ Holshuijsen
commented jokingly. Daam added,
‘Thanksgiving and Christmas were
good!”

Americans , they found, are more
patriotic than Europeans are.. ““Ameri-

4

only thing they have in common,’’
Klaus said. She finds the American love
of country difficult to’ comprehend. ‘‘I
didn’t choose my country, I can’t love it,
she said.

Another distinctive Davidson char-
acteristic is religion, Daam said. On one
of their first mornings on campus, she
and Holshuijsen sat eating cereal in the
hall, watching people promenade past
them in fine clothes. ‘‘What are you
dressed up for? Where’s the party?”
Daam asked innocently. How was she to
know people actually attended church on
Sunday mornings?

What do the students miss from
home? Valery said he found it difficult to
spend time alone here. “Americans are
very social; they don’t like to be alone.”’

Klaus said she misses the German
walks that served both as exercise and
social event. ‘‘No one just walks for
enjoyment here. They buy special shoes
and clothes so they can run for exercise,
and then they drive everywhere else. We
walk a lot more.”

Didier missed a crucial social aspect of
France: the hugging. ‘‘People don’t
touch here,” he complained. “And their
hugs! I’ve never seen such weird hugs!
Just like robots.’’

‘‘But they do give backrubs here,
Didier, you must admit,” Holshuijsen
chimed in. Didier replied, ‘‘I’m French.
We kiss.”” Holshijsen asked him why he
did not just kiss people. ‘‘Do you care
what people think?”

“No, of course not, but I don’t want to

here,” Didier retorted, laughing.

The absence of the influence of
country, family, and friends has let their
true identities come out, the students
said. It has also made them think about
what their nationality really means:
“The Dutch have a different angle of
looking at thing:

bi

,

Ts

International students Didier Valery, Harriet Hoshuijsen (top), Monique Daam —

8,” Holshuijsen explain-

describe.”’

Will they reminisce with nostalgia
about Davidson and America when they
return—despite the conformity, mono-
tony, and weird hugs here? Probably.
Even Valery, that strange French ani-
mal, admitted he will probably be more
American when he returns to France.

and. Suzi Klaus (bottom) strike an affectionate pose in front of the Union.
