page 16

DAVIDSONIAN

Friday 18 September .1981°

Timmerman and American foreign policy

Danny Armistead ’82 _

bin Jacobo Timerman. is the author of

Prisoner Without aName; Cell Without
a Number and is the subject of the arti-
cles on this page. He describes his expe-
"riences as a Jew, a journalist, and a pri-
soner in Argentina. Here we have an in-
sight into the tumultuous. politics of
Argentina and a grim picture of the

_ be. conducted under legislative control

and sanctions, within the due process of
law. Thus, all terrorist groups would
lose all claim to legitimacy. However,
this solution was rejected by a senator as
an. invitation for a military takeover,
and. by an army officer as slow, and

wing extremist violence. ‘Thus;-the ran-
dom unbridled violence of the official
institutions continues.

Timerman’s
government soon landed him in one of
the . clandestine prisons. His book
relates. startling accounts of ‘anti-

semitism and torture. Timerman wishes |

criticism of the

tocall our attention to.this. We must

_ ealize the extent of the prejudice and

brutality and not wait, as we once did in
Germany, to protest its -existence.
Timerman has revealed to us the

" gross. violation of human rights in.
~ Argentina—what will be our nation’s

government the U.S. moves to em-

ineffective in fighting left and right

Timeérman and: family. moved to
_Argentina when he was very young.
Growing up in ‘Argentina, he turned his
" enetgy--and~ journalistic ability into
founding the successful Buenos Airés ©
newspaper La Opinion, As editor of this
paper, Timerman was besieged by fam-
ilies hoping he would find their “lost”
relatives. They were “lost” among the
' thousands of political dissidents and
“subversives” who disappear without a
trace; gone ‘to either clandestine govern-
ment prisons. or an ignominious
death—a fate he would soon experience
first hand but survive to tell.

Jacobo Timerman introduces us to
acountry torn by what lie calls “Fascism
of the Right and Left,” a fascism that
longs for absolute rule and implementa-
tion of policy by force 'with each side
carrying out terrorist activities to elimi-
nate the other. His paper pushed for
military. Meppociiarioniont which would |

SWAG

WN

\

os

SS

SSS ~

\

CK

response? .

NH
e

ee

>

Ah, Sefior Sam, it won't be long before my 4
people support me almost as much as you do.,

go Arg gentinians

William Buckley es my National Review)

—Reading: Anthony Lewis's column on the subject of

.General Haig and Argentina left one wondering wheth-

er, at home stretch, Mr. Lewis would succeed in fin-
ishing. without collapsing from cardiac: arrest. His
‘cholic was aroused by the State Department’s request,
made to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, to re-
sume selling arms to Argentina. General Haig, while

ng thai Argentina i is nota free society, evident-
i at Argentina and America shared certain
a ae One hie towns asked. Anti-

gait

norant of antisemitism in Argentina? Unfortunately ,
no.

Amnesty International, which in its 1980 report
devotes more than eight pages to deploring the absence
of civil liberties in Argentina, makes not a.single men-
tion of antisemitism in Argentina.

The following passage is from the annual report
on Human Rights prepared by Assistant Secretary of
State for Human Rights Patricial Derian and her staff,

. appointees of former President Carter, published pur-

sured the Comanitiee that the Argentine Gira ticns

was not involved in antisemitic acts.”
Wrote: Mr. Lewis: “There is a question here for
the American Jewish community. Is. it going to sit

suant to the law in January of this year, which docu-
ment General Haig and James Buckley reasonably re-
lied on.

American Human Rights Commission to visit Argenti-
na. That visit took place from September 6:to Sep-

tember 20, 1979.” (The report goes‘on to describe the »

_ many persons interviewed by the Commission, includ-

quietly by while as a high official of its government :

says we share values—‘a belief in God’—with a re-
gime under Aen roem antisemitism has been prac-
ticed?”” 7

And again, Mg the ‘sitions Pebvish community

going | to accept such statements (as made by Mr. Buck- |

ing former prisoners, members of bereaved families,

detention center inmates, etc.) The Commission also’:

“noted that the Argentine government cooperated fully

with the Comission-and that with the exception of Je-
‘ would be to refuse to do something Israel is willing to:
do; having preaymabty decided that pus sanction is in-:

hovah’s Witnesses,’ freedom of religion prevails. It re-

ported. that there, isin official policy of antisemitism; ’

ley}—suich “insults to ‘common’ ‘intelligence, in si- in'some instance, Jews have been the subject of
lence?” diserimmnation.” And Brother James was wrong in his
Let us pause, and collect one’s wit. emphasis.”

_ 1) The United States wishes to peut the sale of
arms to |
2) The State of Israel sells arms to Argentina—so,
just to begin with, we are not cone ie Israel
isn’t doing.
3)Is it an “insult to dcxiinich intditigehide™ to b bei es

‘Anthony Lewis had recently read, and reviewed

for the New York Times, an extraordinarily. moving
‘book by an ‘Argentine Jew, Jacobo _Timerman, in

which the former. newspaper publisher from Buenos

.; (Aires recounts-experiences at the hands of Argentine
“~seturtity forces whith might have been told by a'survi-

“In late 1978 [reads the U.S. Human Rights Re- 32
port}, the Argentine government invited: the ‘Inter- :

vor of a Nazi prison. Torture is torture; and there is no

torture that is distinctively. ‘Nazi—in the: sense, say,

that. the bastinado is Oriental,. or the birch British.
What i is distinctive to the Nazi is the association of tor-

_ ture with race: and this was Timerman’s experience in

Argentina, so vividly described in his book.

‘T called Robert Cox at Harvard, to ask whether -
Timerman’s éxperience was in any sense. unique. Mr.
Cox is the distinguished former editor of the English- .
language Buenos Aires newspaper. He left Argentina
last. year, after the political thugs threatened his

- children, Cox'said a) antisemitism is culturally endem-

ic. in Argentina, “and, as a matter of fact, everywhere.”
b):When Cox last was had up in an. Argentine Prison for

24 hours. for some technical infraction; he was aston-
» ished: to. find ‘NAZI NACIONALISMO’ painted on

the wall of the police office. c) Most members of the
Jewish: community in Buenos Aires (including Mr.

'Fimerman before he was put in jail) reason that it is
‘ebettér-to:ride out the storm than § pi it. But:d) Cox
‘thinks’ ‘that’ pressure would help. ’ .

"What kind of pressure? 6». :
It’s difficult to say. To refuse to sell them arms

?

effective.
“ What, then? Well, said Cox, such pressure as the

pa} al nuncio in Buenos Aires, recently transfered to

Vashington, was able to put.on the regime. He:-appar-
ently did much to mitigate Argentine military inclina-

_ tion,

" How so?
Because eurgencinians, sinners like the rest of us,’
believe in God.

ee a eS
