‘Guide to New Courses |
at Davidson |

At long last, the College registrar has responded to Davidson -
students’ moans and groans concerning the periodic dilemma of
finding room in three acceptable courses. Registrar and
‘Computer Lord Richard Burts has recently announced the
‘addition of, 20 new courses to the curriculum for the 1981-82
school year. “The addition of these new courses, along with a
‘new Davidson-Broughton student exchange program, should
greatly increase the chances for a satisfying registration,’ Burts
said. A list of the new courses includes the following:

Lai

Art

Art 207 Introductory Survey

Easy multiple-choice survey questions concerning your basic
attitudes towards art. For example, ‘‘Do you like to draw?
Yes No(). Do you like the color ‘yellow’? YesL) No). Do you
like to eat charcoal? YesX) Nol.”
Art 403 Non-basic Studio

For the unique and restless artists. who are weary of drawing
in the drab confines of the basic studios.

Biology
Bio 24 Semi-edible wild things
Learning to eat at Slater; includes learning to identify the four

basic food groups.

_ Bio 601 Genetics and Davidson campus dogs
' Learning the inner works that allow Davidson canine
chromosomes to produce dogs of unusual colors as well as dogs
with words in their hair.

Economics

Eco 003 Getting a JOB with a Liberal Arts Education.
This course does NOT exist.
| English
_ Eng 10 Literature of the Stalls
’ A comprehensive study of all the poems, jokes, and contests
| written on the walls of Davidson bathrooms.
Eng 301 English Lit. to Milton
Read the private letters, notes, and messages sent. to this
‘ great author.
English Lit. Milton to Chaucer
Milton’s replies to his long-dead writing comrade.
Eng 251 Tudor and Stuart England
A study of the popular England brothers and their rise to
circus fame.

History

His 140 Basketball coaches from Driesell to Biedenbach
His 141 Basketball coaches from Biedenbach to Hussey

Mathematics

Arithmetic 021 Union Math ;
Learning a variation of the ‘“‘new math’’ as practiced by
, persons working in the Union Snack Bar.

Physical Education

Ped 007 P.E. of the Laundry or Hammer swinging
Class meets daily at 10:00 am to smash buttons on all shirts in
the laundry.

Ped 008 Wind walking or P.E. of the Laundry II
Isearning how to successfully confront the Davidson version
of the Ford wind tunnel, the front door of the laundry.

Physics
Phy 037 Basic Intensive Astercids _

Designed to teach students to earn their first extra-ship, this
course introduces thé basic rudiments of thrusting and correct
use of hyperspace for safe re-entry. Practice in the Asteroids
Lab (Belk Lobby) is an integral part of the course. Satisfies area
requirement in science, and, when played in Spanish, German or
French, satisfies Janguage requirement for graduation.

Phy 039 Advanced Asteroids

Asteroids in Three Dimensions. Actual Helium-Neon Lasers
from the Physics lab will be used, in conjunction with chunks of
solid nuclear waste as asteroids. Not open to students planning
to live beyond the exam. Pre-requisite: Philosophy 112, Physics
023 and permission of your mother.

Religion

Rel 141 Old Testament Buddies J.
‘A comprehensive look at such Old Testament pals as David
" and Jonathan, Adam and Eve, and so forth.
Rel 142 Old Testament Survey
Study the original petition used by Moses in trying to free his
‘ people from slave very Analyze such questions as “Do you think
; the Pharaoh should let my people go? Yes(] NoC). Would it!
: bother you to have a million frogs or locusts living in your
. house? Yes) NoD. Do you like sores all over your body? YesO

NoQ).”

Coach de Jour

Coach de Jour with all the trimmings.

You'll be the center of attention when you serve
this delightful dish, perfect for those late
basketball season dinner parties. Cook Jean
Bingspam and assistant cook Tom Chair told us,
“It’s just finger ’n toe lickin’ good. So good you'll
want to make it again real soon.’

Ingredients:

One pot (with tight-fitting lid)
$392,056 (in large bills)

Three gallons brine

One basketball team

Sauerkraut (2-4 pounds)

One coach (preferably the basketball vari-

ety—but you can use whatever is in season)
One can corn

Seasonings to taste

Instructions:

Place $392,056 and brine in pot, heat until
melted. Add the team and bring to loud boil,
lifting lid at irregular intervals. When volume of
boil becomes audible to adminstrators 50 feet
away, add sauerkraut. Heat over a medium flame
for 15 minutes. (at this stage the broth is ready to
be sampled by members of the media)

Pluck a fresh, raw coach. Quickly pop coach in
the pot and immediately add the corn. Keep the
lid off, giving the corn and coach exposure to air.

Watch coach very carefully. prodding with a fork
if it rises above the surface.

When coach begins to roll in an agitated
manner, remove quickly and discard. Cover pot
very tightly. Let stand 2 hours.

Season to taste (molasses is particularly
effective), and feed it first to next season's team.
Make fresh every day; coach de jour does not

_ Events

keep well. Serves 1300.
Thi

,

Day 7. God invents people, including women,. fol ks

non-Westerners, and Blacks

20001 ” First DCF reunion.

6000 B.C. Roy Bumgardner invents the wheel How people would look if they
450 A.D. The medieval Moral Majority invents were thin: ‘Ors-
the Bible. ;
on
- 1060 A.D. William the Conqueror conquers Con- ; Wel-
necticut and establishes Williams Col- les
lege the following fall. Max
; Pol-
1789 French Revolution ley
Jul-
1837 Colonists from Williams College esta- ius
blish Davidson. Win
1882 William Randolph Hearst discovers ; kler
yellow journalism in Panama. Eug-
ene
1902 Roy Bumgardner, Jr. invents the hub- Bin-
1923 Hubert Girkschtaller invents the fig T
newton. :
1969 Davidson admits the existence of Blacks Bes-
1971 Davidson admits the existence of wo- ‘ .
men. @ ' . Dep-
1981 TCPZ discovers woman. uty
~ Daw-
1984 Banned in Iredell County. - . g
"1987: This year does not ‘happen. El-—
- mer
2000 End of the world Be-
ar
