page 10

DAVIDSONIAN _

Friday 25 September 1981

The taming
of the Cats.

By the Lafayette aap .

by Steve Soud °84 - deallegs with missed blocking asrigir
. Football returned to Davidson on a ments.
sour note Saturday as Lafayette soundly “In the last iwo ‘drives we ically
defeated the Wildcats 14 - 7. True to handled their defensive front rather well
form, the many, stadium. seat. student- and had a fair amount of success both
quarterbacks (myself included) turned running and passing.”
out in force after the game to criticize - The point is well taken, Coach Far-

and speculate over the Wildcat game
plan. Let’s get down to the nitty gritty of
why Davidson lost, and perhaps how
Davidson could have won.

The first Leopard touchdown came
just before the first quarter buzzer, and
Mee eer on interception. Bob
‘Shar off a Keith Martin pass at
oe are) with

1 33 on oe

rell. In the second half the Leopards ap-

peared to be wearing down offensively
and defensively as the Cats halted La-
fayette scoring and did a little scoring of
its own.

The opening of the second half left

little doubt that the close of: the game -

was.to.be-little different from the first
“half, Davidson couldn’t move the ball,

- and when it had to punt, the kick was

ion to ALCognini, the Leopards ate up blocked.
gg pelea g -.. The Leopards worked their way to
a ‘wasn’t a whole lot Davidson the Davidson 25, but then went for the

could. do. about that. Interceptions are

going to be thrown, and a good pass.

patter is’ designed to beat even good
coverage. The Wildcat secondary is no
slouch, either. In fact, on Lafayette’ $
ossession Keith Ellis picked off'a
Leopard pass. Turnover count: 1 —1,

“As Davidson took over the ball, the:

teamdisplayed what i is becoming part of
ent: offense.” On second-and-

¢, Keith Martin fumbled and te-
peo ball. One play down the

drain. ‘The Wildcats have fumbled
twelve times, losing only four, equal to
what * nts have lost. But what

about those’ eight lost plays? The ‘de-

fense has got to lose a little something

when, as in this play, they pick off a.
pass and then turn around only to watch. '
the: offense go nowhere, partially be- ;

cause of the fumble.
And what happened when: David-

son had to punt? A 38-yard. return of a

39-yard. punt. The offense may as well

have. fumbled the ball away-—it: would

have saved the special team’s energy!

‘Thanks in part to three 4” ~and-
inches conversions to first downs, ‘the

marched downfield and ‘into
the endzone for a 14 - Olead, ...,.
Clearly the story. of the. first half
had been Lafayette’s domination of the
trenches. Their offensive line was beat-
ing our defensive. line. The, Leopards
ran and passed with relative ease.
Head Coach.Ed Farrell was not so
quick to agree with that analysis. “They
didn’t control the offensive line as much
_as it appeared. We didn’t control the of-
fensive line as much as it appeared. We
didn’t run to the right places. Still we’re

first down on fourth and six. They blew
the play; and people were left wonder-
ing if Lafayette had a a placekicker on the
roster.

A couple of possessions later the

_ Wildcats finally flexed their muscles.

Key completions’ and clutch running

“moved the Cats to first and goal at the 6,
and a few plays later Mickey Dillon -
', bolted the'remaining five yards for the —
“TD. Wayne Paymer nailed the PAT,

and Davidson was in the game 14 — 7.
When the Cats I Sed the ball back
midway through the 4 quarter, they ca-

. -pitaliozed on a tired Lafayette front line.
Ray Sinclair rushed for two first downs,

and Bob Miller a third as the Cats
moved into scoring range. On the next
play Sinclair managed only two yards,

but finally a break ‘catne Davidson’s
“way as the ref called unsportsmanlike

conduct on a Leopard late hit.

That moved the ball to the: 14 yard
line, whichis a good position to be in. If
you can’t get the ball in the endzone you
can get the ball inside the four and have
4 more downs to work with. At that
point, a touchdown.and a two point con-
version win the game.

But Coach Farrell, in: a conserva-
tive move, opted. to min the ball four
times. True, more passes are intercept-
ed inside the twenty than on any other

place on the field, but four carries seems .
to be going overboard. On fourth and
three, the ball went to Sinclair, but this

time the defensive surge got him. The
Leopards took over the helm with 4:47
on the clock.
Here’s what Farrell said about the
series. “We had gone the whole way on

the run. Oe Fie BAIA we mide four
yards running the ball, -and on second:

down we ran for two. My only decision

I think was on the 4 down play. is

Coach Farrell enumerated his choi-

ces as follows:

-“1) A counter (fake to Ray, give
-. @lsewhere),:

2) Play action pass (fake to Ray,

put the ball up), or

3) Give it to Ray, the “bread and

butter player.”
“I made the decision. We came up a foot
short,” Farrell said.

With possession of the ball, La-
fayette looked to grind out the clock on
the ground. The Wildcats did their best
to help their guests, with two penalties
assessed for 20 yards against them. But
Mike Jonés came up with a key 3”
down sack, and Davidson called time
out to stop the clock at 0:58. That gave
the Cats time enough to stage another

miracle comeback, but a roughing the

kicker foul. ended those hopes.

“In reviewing what I did,” Coach »

Farrell concluded, “jt’s obvious without
question ! make the wreeg ‘call-“we

didn’t make the first down. In.looking at
the films, had we executed properly, the
counter play would have gotten the first
down. However, so would the play we
called. if we had executed properly. I
don’t second-guess myself much.” .
Fine, but the team'is 1 - 2,. and
why? Davidson is winning the: first
down war 67 — 45, losing only in penal-
ty first downs (4 to 8).
The Cats are outrushing opponents by
over 150 yards. Outpassing by 45. So
why are the points for 36 and the points
against 67?

First; apecial-ie teams aren ‘thelping.

‘Davidson has not returned the ball one

full yard. Opponents have rolled up 104
yards on return., Opponents have picked
off four Wildcat passes ‘and gained 45

_yards in the process. And in the penalty

category, the Cats are on their way.to

'. doubling: what they give as opposed to
what they get. All this has got to.s mp:

“The coaching: staff: and pla
have to take advantage of their two
week furlough and work on these point

if rey wish to — Bucknell:

LaFayette defensive backs try to strip Davidson’s
Yermetz of the ball, but had to settle for a tackle
