Football loses to Bucknell -

Coach Farrell contemplates third loss — J
by Steve Soud ‘84

Across the centuries, many of mankind’s great-

est minds have pondered the nature of the “soul.” Pla-. .

to, Shakespeare, Milton, and Calvin all did their fair
share of soul-searching. Add to that list the 1981 Da-
vidson College football team. .

“We’ve been doing a lot of soul-searching late-
ly,” said Coach Ed Farrell. That’s no small wonder in
light of a 23-3. Wildcat loss at Bucknell Saturday
which dropped their record to 1-3.

Farrell’s soul-searching has led him.to.two basic
conclusions about the problems, and they stem from
what have to be considered the most important phases
of the game — offense and defense. On offense the
problem has been inconsistency, whereas the defense

has an adjustment problem. The defense has been ab-

solutely devastating against what would be consi-
dered opponents’ offensive. strengths, but has been
slow adjusting, to tactical shifts away from these
fortes. Both problems: were in evidence Saturday.

Bucknell took the wind in the first quarter, but
the defense had a field day, as they shut down com:
pletely the Bison offense. No first downs, no any-
thing. So Davidson kept good field position, and

when the second-quarter came around-and the wind -

was at the Cats’ back, the offense rolled.
Just about the entire second quarter was played

on the Bucknell side of the fifty-yard line, and even-.

tually Davidson worked its way to first and goal atthe
Bucknell 9%, The first play was a fullback trap (see
diagram) to Ray Sinclair. which went for three
yards, The second down play called for a play-ac-

tion pass (fake to running back, then pass), and that °

was where ‘the offensive’ inconsistency “began.

Quarterback: Keith Martitt chose to Keep the‘ ball»:
and run, butshe was nailed and suffered a shoulder

strain. No practice for Keith for a week.

As Farrell looked at the bench, he again had a
problem. Although Brian Whitmire had played ex-
ceptionally well at practice in the week : following

. Davidson 24). With, fin
for.a dramatic 41-yard"

the Lafayette game, he had come down with a bad
case of strep throat, lost eighteen pounds. All that
without practicing. Frosh QB Jeff Haney was by no
means ready to run the offense, so it was Whitmire,
weakened, or no quarterback at all.

It was third and goal from the five, and Whit-
mire came in to execute beautifully on a pass play.
The other end of the deal didn’t work out so well,
though, as the receiver dropped the ball in the end
zone. Gary Sims came in and kicked the 22-yd.
field goal.

Problems on offense

That series, however, illustrated. beautifully
what has plagued the Wildcats all year — inconsist-
ency on offense. It can’t be narrowed down to any
one group because they’ ve all done it. Overthrown
passes, dropped passes, missed blocking assign-
ments, foul-ups in the backfield, the list goes on.
After all it is almost without exception a young of-
fense, but something’s. going wrong-and Farrell is
quick to admit, “We’re still floundering on execu-
tion.”

The offense still couldn’t get things- going
properly as it missed several first downs around

.Mid-field. Opportunity: knoeked put had the. door )

slammed in its face.
All this time the defense was putting ona ste
lar performance. With 2'4 minutes left on the’first

‘half clock, Bucknell had been deniéd a first down,

and when ‘it finally came, the Bison.fans cheered in
mock ‘applause. But here the defensive problem

cropped up. Bucknell shifted offenses and on aser- -

ies of screen passes and the like, they moved to the ”
Seconds that set the stage

1d-goal into a strong wind
by a freshman placekicker. The teams went.into the

locker room tied’at three apiece, and: although Da- *

vidson had dominated the game, romeneny had ©
turned.to the hosts... ;
"That's pretty much where momentum stayed.

Thé new vinbiy 1 team has yer to win a
gamé, but they are exelted about just a:

playing.

DAVICSORIAN Fidel GOMinbaiegY:

» four: quarters temoroW, a wi niet

“Midnigs madnes es

by, Hussey and: his ¢

“Thursday,” 15’ October, with a Midnight
celebration.

o 2 create enthusiasm,”
looking for a oneness of the whole camp

Bucknell turned one of its early possessions into a ’
touchdown. With second and long and William By-
num, blitzing, ‘literally breathing down his
shoulder pads, the Bison quarterback threw a Hail
Mary pass to his halfback, who beat the Wildcat se se-

~ condary’6n a 70-yard TD sprint.

Somehow that score took the wind out of Das
vidson’s sails, and Bucknell engineered a sustairied>

drive for a second TD on their next possession’ '

That 60-yd. drive put the score at 17-3. Bucknell’s
last six points came on two field goals which ‘in-
cluded a 52-yarder that left everyone wondering if
this kid was pro material. Final score: Bucknell 23,
Davidson 3.

Versus Boston tomorrow

Play by the Wildcats wasn’t as gloomy as it.
might seem. Everyone played aggressively, and
the team hasn’t lost morale. But before they’ ll see
the winner’s circle again, the wrinkles wilk have to
be ironed out. “I really believe’ that-we have ‘the
ability to work these problems‘out and to play:to our
potential,” says Farrell, but Wildcat fans are hop-
ing to'see all this done by tomorrow when the Cats.
host Boston University.

“BU took it Davidson 35-14 last year at Boston

. in the first ever meeting ‘of these two teams; The
- ‘Terriets boast a big offensive front and.a great tail-
as back running, out of the T formation. If the aie

faras offense is concerned, ‘et ri F. aR ‘
* doubtfil, ‘but Whitmire should be covert

Caan

"The NCAA has declared 15 October? 1981. Be

. THE day. ‘That’s right, hoops will return ‘to college

basketball courts all over the soi and Coae

minute. fate. ‘They'll kick off the’ season at

- The festivities will start around 11: 3b 14 Oc-

ae tober with an inter-fraternity dunk ‘contest (ot some
| sort of contest) on an 8+foot goal. The DC Cheerlead.

ers are. co-sponsoring the event with the new j-ball

staff, and someone may sponsor a keg ae. group .
‘ which shows the most enthusiast

At 12:01 the 1981-82 Wildc { basketballers will

take the court in the first ‘clash of the season, an p ira-

“ _y Squad game:.

“We're doing it mainly ‘hecsiise we. want to
said Coach. Hussey. “We're
s; We want
to get rid of the divisions among rote students,
and athletes, to create a ‘mutual:

“The basic idea is that the

|... .Tesentative for what riby i aera
‘What do they stand for? A breath of fresh 2 air in Da-

vidson athletics.

Latte Sacra ecomes 4 ae
