Hockey gets first win

Opens second half or season right

by Jim Northrup 82 oe

Davidson’s. field: hockey ‘team followed. up”

Friday’s 6 — 0 loss to Pfeiffer with a 3- I win over
Converse on Tuesday.

' Pfeiffer scored its first goal two minutes into the.

gaine. Though Davidson controlled the ‘ball during
the. middle -of the first half, Pfeiffer scored again
eighteen minutes later. “We had'some trouble with
the offense in that Paige Marsh, Sarah Hart, Caroline

Scragg, and Courtney Hall were all originally.

‘defensive players. It’s hard to change positions,
‘especially when the team hasn’t played together for
very long,” said Coach Mayes.

The half ended with Pfeiffer up by two. From

the outset of the second half, Davidson was forced.to

play Pféiffer’s game..‘They were a fast and strong
team,” Mayes éxplained..“They “have almost the
same team this year as they did last year. Their girls
have played together for a long time.” Pfeiffer used
its. strength and speed to send long, hard passes into
Davidson’s end of the field, and then to take control
of the ball before the Cat’s defense could recover.
Davidson's shortér,’ slower. passes were continually
intercepted, . Pfeiffer. scored three times -in the last
fifteen minutes of the second half.

“Cathy. Morell played one of her best games on |

Friday, especially since she’s been out until now.

DAYIDSONIAN / raeey 16 October r 1981.

goo i aula < ¥

There were numerous shots: taken at ‘her,”

-Dagenhart, © Mebane

added
Mayes. Morell had been out with a pulled leg muscle.

Up to the Pfeiffer game, Mitzi Short had been playing
goalie. “Mitzi did a good job. She’d never played

- before, but she improved tremendously. I’m really

pleased with her playing; I’m glad to have her.”
Notable performances were also given by Katie
“Atwood, and. Amy
Crittenberger. “Amy is consistently good,” Mayes
said. “When you lose a game, outstanding players

‘tend to get overlooked. Amy was really outstanding.”

Against Converse, Davidson demonstrated

_ strong passing and speed. The Cats controlled the ball

for most of the game; freshman Sarah Hart scored the
first goal twelve minutes into the half. Davidson’s
coordinated effort kept Converse away from the ball
for ten more minutes, when Hart scored again. “She’s
getting more confident in her new position,” Mayes
noted. “We utilized everybody and made our passes
good.” The half ended with Davidson leading by two.
Davidson kept up the pressure during the second
half. The most spectacular goal of the game was.
scored when Hart, to the left of Converse’s goal, lost
her footing and slid. Converse was unable to control
the loose ball; and under Davidson’s defensive

. opressure sent the ball to Hart. Stillon:the ground, she

passed to sophomore Courtney Hall in front of the
goal. The score was 3 — 0. Three minutes before the
end of the half, Converse scored its only goal.

“Converse was a big win for us,” said Mayes.
“We’ve been playing better, and that game proved it
for us. I’m impressed with all of the girls, really.
Laura Hills never played hockey: before Davidson;
Caroline Scragg had to be switched from a defensive
to an offensive / defensive position. Kara Gilmore is
consistent and plays aggressively. She fits nicely into
our defense.”

Davidson has four more games. before the
NCAIAW meet in High Point on the 29th. The Cats
play Duke on Monday at 4:00 here at Davidson. “It
should be a good game. Duke has an exceptional
wing and a great goalie,”-Mayes pointed out. “The
fans have been great this year, and that’s important to
us. We really appreciate the support.”

13
Oy
