Friday 18 September 1981.

DANIDEONIAN

page 17

Anti-Semitism in Argentina

Mario del Carril (reprinted fronr the Washington Post).

The motives behind the Spanish Inquisition are a
better reference point for understanding contemporary
Argentine attitudes toward the “Jewish Question” than
is the criminal racism of the’ Nazi Holocaust — though
that, too, is present in the country.

- The Spanish Inquisition of 1480 was directed
against the religiously subversive influence of Jews
who had recently converted to Christianity. But it was
also motivated by envy. Hannah Arendt, in “The Orig-
ins of Totalitarianism,” repeated the truism that envy is
at the heart of anti-Semitism. The high clergy and old

nobles of Aragon coveted the positions and the promi- -

nence acquired by the new Christians.

Responding to the court, and not to Rome, the In-
quisition was used to eliminate assimilated Jews from
Spain’s body politic. Infiuential converts were tried for
religious subversion, then smeared, and their goods
were confiscated. Those who repented under torture
were forced to wear a special dress of shame called
sambenito. Ultimately, in 1492, all Jews were ex-
pelled from Spain.

The reason? According to King Ferdinand and
Queen Isabella’s edict of expulsion, it was to stop Jews
from conversing with Christians, because these con-
versations were seen as the cause of religious subver-
sion in their kingdoms.

It is a modern political variant of this medieval
anti-semitism, intolerance and envy — always envy —
that explains many Argentine attitudes of both Chris-
tian and Jew toward that quintessential assimilated
Jew: Jacobo Timerman.

Timerman is-not the only Jewish victim of these -

attitudes. Threats, a bombing, and smear campaigns
have also been directed against Julio Broner, a millio-
naire businessman, David Graiver, a financier and phi-
lanthropist, Manuel Sadosky, an academician, Oscar
Varsavsky, a researcher, and Adolfo Gass, a Radical
Party politician to name a few.

Apologists for these persecutions will say that
these Argentines have exercised in a variety of ways a
politically subversive influence in the country and that
explains the actions taken against them. True, some of
these persons have been connected directly or indirect-
ly with either to Peronist activities or left-wing activi-
ties; others have not. Some had family members in-

volved in guerrilla activities; others did not.

Before he died in exile — stripped of his citizen-
ship — former Peronist economy minister José Ber
Gelbard reported that his decision to take his whole ex-
tended family — 36 persons — out of Argentina in
1976 was prompted by the fact that a distant relative, a
nephew that he might encounter once a year, had been
tortured for no reason at all — unless the family con-
nection to Gelbard can be considered a reason. This
young man was found alive and nude in the street of a
provincial city with. a sign tied from his neck that read:
“Iam a Jewish pig.”

Such things do not happen to every prominent
family with questionable connections or politics. For
example, retired general Julio Alsogaray had a son
who was killed by the military in an action aganist
guerrillas. His family, which is not Jewish, has not
been smeared or uprooted. Alvaro Alsogaray, his
brother, could be the next Argentine minister of eco-
nomy. “’

One reason that being Jewish is a category of guilt
in Argentina is that the Jew is not given the benefit of
the doubt. That is why so many Jews are careful not to
associate with those “bad” Jews who have run afoul of
the military and police.

Those who try to discredit Timerman from the
right in the United States should listen to what is-said
by those who try to discredit him from the left in Latin
America. They would find that they are attacking, in

- some respects, one of their own kind.

- The left criticizes Timerman because, until the
day of his abduction in April 1977, he was an influen-
tial member of the civilian entourage of the military.
He was so much a member of that establishment that he
offered to testify before an American congressional
committee in favor of the “authoritarian” military go-
vernment. The left believes that this is a black mark
against his name. I am not so sure.

It can be said the Timerman was kidnapped be-
cause he _opposed in situ — sometimes timidly and
compromising a lot, but more than most — the crimi-
nal features of the régime he supported. -

Surely Timerman’s Jewishness does not fully ex-
plain why he was abducted. But it does explain why he
has been publicly vilified, why he has been denational-

ized and why his property has been confiscated. It also

explains the peculiar attitude of some Argentines to-

ward his fate.

Had he failed, or died, he would be remembered
as a sharp, aggressive, rather courageous, no-holds-
barred editor. Unscrupulous? Perhaps. Surely contro-
versial. But he was a success before his ordeal, and,
worse, he is a huge success after; he will make money,
the thinking goes, because he is a Jew. All this i is not
easily forgiven.

Soon after his abduction, Carta Politica, a journal
widely respected by the military but now defunct, pub-
lished a widely noticed cover story titled “The Jews.”
In any other Western country, this article would have
been considered preposterous. But in Argentina it ex-
pressed a bien-pensant attitude toward the racist anti-
Semitism in the military that everyone in the country
knew was behind much ofthe actions being taken
against Jews at that time — for example, the imprison-
ment of David Graiver’s elderly parents because their
son was a suspect and they had possible access to the
“Jewish, Montonero, Zionist” money; the systematic
abuse of other wealthy Jewish families for the same
reason; and Timerman’s abduction.

In this climate, and in a misguided effort to help,
Carta Politica told its readers that the Jewish commu-
nity in Argentina, even after three generations, is still
something alien to the nation. In order to achi¢ve the
desired integration, the author of the piece made two
suggestions to Argentine Jews:

First, they should not be Zionists, because “Ar-
gentina will not be able to integrate its Jews if they are
Zionists.”

Second, Jews should not be “contestants,” be-
cause Argentina is too young a nation to assimilate the
contestants of a community that has produced “Marx,
Freud, Marcuse.”

Where does this leave Timerman, facing his cap-
tors with his commitment to Zionism and 30 years of
Argentine political journalism? Is he supposed to give
up his commitment and stop thinking to become a good
Argentine? Absurd.

When all is said and done-though a lot more could
be said — and when one reflects on Timerman’s tes-
timony about a how Nazis in the Argentine military
torture and kill people, then one may ask: why did he
not take time to explain his partnership with the alleged
subversive David Graiver? An answer comes: this con-
testant, this Zionist Jew, refuses to wear a sambenito,
whether it be offered by his anti-Semitic tormentors in
Argentina or by Irving Kristol and William Buckley in
the United States.

Economic collapse and authoritarianism

Penny Lenroux (reprinted from the Nation)

_ Taken to the bitter end in Argentina, Friedman’s
free-market policies have nullified decades of industri-
al development, leaving the country dangling over an
economic abyss. Argentina’s military régime, like
Chile’s, slashed tariffs, wiping out both local and mul-
tinational industries. Conglomerates snapped up ailing
companies and state enterprises, but in Argentina’s
high-interest (120'percent) money game; several over-
extended themselves and collapsed last year, dragging
with-them no fewer than twenty-nine banks, including
the country’s largest private bank.“ Since then, thou-
sands of panic-stricken Argentines have besieged ex-
change’ houses, driving down the currency to an in-
credible 7,500 pesos to the dollar. High foreign re-
serves, which the government once considered proof

- of economic health, are tumbling’ sharply as specula-
tors convert their moricy. . Meanwhile, inflation is roar-

ing along at a rate of {16 percent a year, ‘and unemploy-
ment and u joyment are y mounting.

Public complaints are still relatively muted, however,

since most of the population has been thoroughly
cowed by five years of ferocious repression, during
which some 20, 000 people have disappeared 0 or been
killed. ©

_. Speculation has been rife about a coup within a
coup. Much of the blame for the economic mess has
been heaped on ‘Gen. Roberto Viola, who assumed the

presidency ‘last March as banks were collapsing all

around him. In fact, Viola inherited the debacle from
the previous military government, which gave moneta-
rist Economy Minister José Martinez de Hoz a free
hand to force the country back in time to.a period when
it had little industry and depended on beef and grain ex-

ports. The.monetarists believed that Argentina should

fit into what they call “the new international division of
labor” by importing almost everything; but as in Chile,
the only groups to benefit from this kind of thinking
have been quick-witted speculators and foreign banks.
The only bright spot in the government’s other-
wise unreliéved gloom is the Reagan Administration’s
desire to'kiss and make up with the neo-Nazi régime,
notwithstanding its appalling record on human rights.
One of the few Latin American governments that open-
ly support U.S. policy in El’Savador, the Argentines
have been assured of an’ end to the military embargo
imposed by former President Carter: The generals also

have been repeatedly told of Reagan’s high regard for

them by a stream of visitors from Washington, includ-
ing General Walters. While Reagan’s love affair with
the Argentine military will do nothing to solve the
country’s economic crisis, it’ is proving useful ‘asa
“hunting license against human-rights critics,” accord-

‘ing toa dissenting Argentine diplomat, particularly
' against those who refuse to forget that their sons and

daughters disappeared into the Hees 's infamous
concentration camps.
