Perimeter Housing

Student homes to be gradually given to faculty

The College plans to convert at least six of the
nine perimeter houses occupied by students into fac-
ulty homes, according to Business Manager Bob Cur-

rie. (M' Currie coordinates faculty housing assist-

ance, among his other duties.) He said that Park
Place, Harding House, and Derby House will proba-
bly be converted to faculty housing at the end of the
1981 — 82 school year. There are. no plans to make the
largest houses, Julia Johnson House, Martin Manor,
and Grey House, available to faculty.

Thompson House, M‘Connell Apartments, and
Derby Apartments were returned to faculty and staff
last year, three perimeter houses will be returned in
1982, and three more will be returned next year. M"
Currie stressed that they were all formerly occupied
by faculty. ~

Dean of Students Will Terry, who officially rep-
resents the students’ viewpoint in making housing de-
cisions, agreed to turn three houses over to the faculty
next year, but added, “We may have to renegotiate
after that.” If Dean Terry and M‘Currie are not able to

reach a compromise between faculty and student:

housing needs, College President Samuel Spencer
will make the decision.

Dean Terry said that unless major problems are
found, the College plans no renovations other than
painting the houses before they are made available to
faculty.

Lafferty House is the only exception. It is in such .

disrepair that, according to M’ Currie, “We feel it
would not be economical to spend money on it.” Stu-
dent Housing Director Bill Bolding says that he has
been trying to get Lafferty House condemned ever
since he has worked here, and M' Currie agreed that
“the Administration has wanted to raze Lafferty
House.” He explained the only reason that the house
has not been demolished is that there has always been
a group of students who wanted to live in it. “We
would not want anyone to live there against their
wishes,” he said.

The faculty needs some of the perimeter houses
because there has been “a hiatus in building buting on
the part of younger faculty members” in recent years,
according to M" Currie. He said that in the past, at
least three or four faculty members moved out of col-
lege-owned housing into their own homes each year,
making room for new faculty to move into the col-
lege-owned housing. Because of today’s high interest
rates and construction costs, professors have not
moved into their own homes fast enough to mmake
room for the arrival of.new faculty, so the College is
having a hard time finding housing for them.

He sees having professors live close to the Col-
lege as an integral part of the Davidson system, al-
though some professors do commute from out of
town. In order to make it possible for professors to

live in Davidson, M‘ Currie says that the College has
hopes to construct houses for faculty members, but
presently has no long-range plans. The College might
build on the M°Connell property, which is about a
mile out of town on Concord Road and owned by the
College.

Dean Terry said, “as the need for faculty housing
increases, atudent housing becomes tighter.” “In the
foreseeable future, Davidson will-not be in.a position
to house all of its students,” M‘ Currie predicted.

Dean Terry said that the present system, in which
rising sophomores have the least priority in the hous-
ing lottery, will have to be reévaluated. An SGA
committee chaired by SGA President Chip Hurley is
studying the housing lottery and expects. to recom-
mend improvments for this spring. M‘ Bolding said
that there was on campus housing for everyone who
wanted it this year. If M‘ Currie’s predictions come
true, the prospect of a student housing shortage is
likely to become a problem again.

Last week’s article on perimeter housing reported
an ant infestation in the kitchen of Martin Manor
South. The exterminator sprayed the kitchen on
Wednesday.

By Peter Gulyn ’83
a

| Friday and Saturday nights
HALLO WEEN
SPECIAL

6:00 0 6:30 pm —-25¢ beverage!

6:30 to 7:00 pm $20¢ beverage!
7:00 to 7:30 pm «15 ¢ beverage!
7:30to.8:00 pm  10¢ beverage!
8:00 to 8: 30 pm S¢ beverage!

8: :30 to 9:00 pm

New York
Sicilian. pizza
available

DAMIDSONIAN/ Friday:

IS SANTA A GNOME?

| Dr. Tom Clark at work with his creations.

See Santa — Gnome size — along with
dozens Of. other elfen creations dy Davidson’ s
College Professor Dr. Thomas F. Clark.

A Gnome by Dr. Clark is a delightful idea in
planning your holiday, giving. We have a

- darge selection of Dr. Clark's Gnomes now on -

display at

, VILLAGE. STORE

