10—The Davidsonian— May 8, 1981

In Veritate Magna Vis

This week's column comes to. you directly from North Myrtlye
Beach, South Carolina, where the Brick Brothers and the
‘ Doughboys spend the weekend singing themes from the Wizard
of Oz, watching David Evans ingest his vomit, and hearing Gus
yell “Bonzai!”’ three times from the next room.' While there,
with our hands on what we perceived to be an invaginated ouija
board, we saw into the futures of numerous Davidson

personalities and feel compelled to pass our:vision on to you.

Here are some of your favorite, 20 years from now:
David Waddill —ex-presiaent of
. Chrysler Corporation, Mr.
The Brick Bros. Waddill has recently been in-
vited to Davidson for the SGA
andthe sponsored ‘‘David Waddill
Day” on which he told us things
we already knew.
Doughboys Debby Carlton— has just been
— promoted to sales manager for
Eureka Vacuum Cleaners, hose
division, and has set up a branch office in Belk Lobby,
dhn Davis—currently Vice-President in charge of academic
Affairs and head of the faculty, he moonlights as a mud wrestler
at the Beanery.
Debbie Marshall—just married to President Strom Thurmond,
her legal name is now Deborah Marshall Sanders Elmore
Faulkner Cornelson Murrah Thurmond. :
Doug Shanks—killed 10 years ago by a black militant who was
protesting Mr. Shanks’ sponsorship of Old Dred Scott Day.
Lisa Hastyhouse mother for Rusk House, she builds their social
program around Old Indochina Weekend.
Eddie Haskell— founder and president of ‘“Who’s Nothing in
America,” he never got a job, never hada nose job, never quit
dating his mom, and now works as a concessioneer at Cleveland
Indians’ games.
Pete Collins—now 45, he owns Pete’s Retirement Home for
Unwed Mothers.
Brett Storm—aging quickly, Brett is now 70 and produces ‘‘I’m

stickers.
Pat Sheridan — leader of the New Jersey secessionist movement,
Pat has pledged to leave no stone unturned and no window
unbroken in his campaign to lead New Jersey out of the Union.
Don’t worry, he still has a scab.
dnet Ward Black —recently won the ‘‘Miss I-85 Bookstop’”’ title
with her rendition of ‘Mama, don’t let your babies grow up to
run trailer parks.”
Rob Campany—chairman of the Davidson Philosophy Depart-
ment and author of a textbook called ‘‘The Philosophical
Statement on The Philosophy of the Philosophical System of
Short Philosophers.”’
Peter Hux—just presented the convocation speech entitled, ‘‘I
heckle. therefore I was.’’

Well, we’re too far over this column to write anymore, and the
ouija board has sand on it so we took the last train to
Mooresville and watched The Eggman with some people. Never.

Clueless.

not a dirty old man. I’m just a sexy senior citizen’’ bumper:

THE TONSURE

(Continued from page 1)
he ration has sometimes
caused: the College to accept a

‘man ranked. lower in his class

than a woman from the same
school who was not accepted,

- Griffith said.

’ He noted that nationwide the

percentage of high school wo-
ment interested in going to
College is rising, while the
percentage of high school men
pursuing higher education has
peaked and is now declining. In
addition, the nation’s 17 and 18
year old population is declining.

Griffith said he is proposing
this study as a part of his
“effort to assure that the Col-
lege continue to bring the very
best students to campus.”’

If the Trustees direct Griffith
to make the study, he will
present, them with his recom-
mendations and the study’s
results at the fall Trustee
meeting.

Griffith said he currently
plans to focus the study in three
areas: the relative performances
of men and women at Davidson,
donations of women alumni
relative to donations of men
alumni, and the relative levels
of maturity of men and women
entering college.

The Admissions Advisory
Council has endorsed Griffith’s
proposed study and will work
with Griffith on the study,
according to Council Chairman
Religion Professor Samuel
Maloney.

Griffith stressed that he
could not predict what the
outcome of his study would be
or what recommendations he
might make to the Trustees in
the fall. He said the study
would be analagous to a market
analysis, assessing the advan-
tages and disadvantages of the
ratio.

The faculty resolved on Tues-
day that the College should

(Continued from page 1)

initiate a merit-based, sex-blind

admissions policy. Their resolu-
tion would be included in the
study.

Bingham will propose that
the College offer the equivalent
of one full women’s basketball
scholarship for the 1981-82
school year, and that the Col-
lege add one women’s basket-
ball scholarship each year until
the College is in compliance
with Title IX. Federal regula-
tion Title IX requires that
college women be given propor-
tionately as many athletic scho-
larships as men. x

Bingham estimated the Col-
lege would: need the equivalent
of four. full women’s scholar-
ships in order to comply with
Title IX. Coaches may divide
the money into partial scholar-
ships if they wish.

The. Athletic Advisory Coun- °

cil endorsed Bingham’s recom-
mendation. Basketball scholar-
ships for women were one of the
recommendations a group of
women athletes brought before:
the Advisory Committee on
April 13.

Trustee meeting

Athletics Advisory Council
Chairman History Professor
David Shi said the council will
not make recommendations
concerning the women athletes’
other proposals until next fall, if
at all. The council will meet
Friday to discuss one of the
proposals, the establishment of
a new position in the Athletic
Department, Coordinator for
Women’s Athletics.

Trustee Athletic Committee
Chairman Perrin Anderson told

-The Davidsonian in the middle
. of April that his committee

would be formally discussing
the Athletic Complex approved
in the 1987 Program at the

‘Spring Trustee meeting. The

Trustee Athletics and Grounds

‘committees are meeting toge-
“ther, possibly to discuss the

new complex.

The Trustees will decide in
their meeting if they will grant
tenure to Political Science Pro-
fessor Robert Ortmayer and
Psychology Professor John

‘ Brockway. Ortmayer and
’ Brockway are widely expected

to receive tenure.

Army
week cam
well paid for it.

Army ROTC

Two-Year Program. You'll have to attend as
the summer before your junior year. But you'll be

If you missed taking Army ROTC in your first two years
of college: eu may not have missed out. Because of the

ial six-

And altogether, you'll earn a totai of about $2,900 to help you
through your last two years of college. Then you'll earn a commis-
sion as an officer at the same time you earn a college degree.

Belk Dorm, Davidson College

(@) The Arniy ROTC Two Year Program

BSC protest —_——-

é

Denise McGrad
Barber stylist |
Gary W. Bailey
Owner
892-1933

JOHN V.

WASHAM

King’s visit. King, founder of the Urban Crisis Center,
conducted a series of racism sensitivity seminars on campus two
weeks ago.

Crum said the protest itself did not affect Old South
drastically. He said, ‘‘Not the protest, but our desire to be
sensitive this year,’’ motivated the fraternity to move the
festivites off campus this year. The decision to hold the party off
campus was made before the protest. The changes after the
protest began were minimal, he said.

Crum did admit, however, that there were several KA’s who
did not attend Old South as a result of the protest.

Sophomore KA Tim Ritchie did not participate in the Old
South activities on Saturday night, although he did attend the
barn dance on Friday night.

Ritchie feels the ‘Southern Gentleman” heritage cannot be
denied, but thinks ‘‘it would be possible to redefine what it

(continued from page 1)

Gerald Ford

means to be a Southern Gentleman” without symbols like the
name, “Old South,’’ and the confederate uniforms.

Ritchie said that the KA’s are far from being racists, 80 that
“to change two symbols of racism should be a small matter.’’

Junior KA Jeff Wall did not participate in the activities
either. He said, :howeVer,'that it was King’s seminar, not the
BSC protest, which influenced his decision not to attend. “I
agreed with what Dr. King had to say,” he said.

Sherman Allen, ‘the sole black KA member, did attend Old
South. He wore a Union officer’s uniform rather than the
Confederate uniform. ‘‘I could not wear a Confederate uniform,”
he said.

Allen, who is also a BSC member, said although he went to
the celebration, he “never stopped identifying with the feelings
the blacks were feeling about Old South.” He feels that the
Davidson KA chapter is unique because it celebrates Old South
“for the right reason.”’ ,

of unanimity within the Warsaw Pact |

itself.
Ford went on to call for new American
initiatives in the Middle East..
“For several years the Soviet Union
has wanted a Geneva-type conference,
with co-chairmanship by the two super-
. powers. This hasn’t succeeded, manily
because of the procedural issues that
would have to be resolved. There are too
_ Many parties involved and the problems

are too complex. The U.S., on the other,

hand, has adopted a step-by-step ap-

proach, which I used and President.

Carter later continued with the Camp
David Accords. It is my judgment. that
we hould build on this step-by-step

Turning next to China, Ford stressed
the need to maintain stron relations with
the Peking government.

“Since the Deng-Xiaoping group has

cast its lot with the U.S. we should do
nothing that would precipitate it to back
off,” he said.

Ford hinted that any attempt to
strengthen U.S.-Taiwanese’relations at

the expense of telations with the
communist government would be a

‘grave mistake.

“As we look down the road, the U.S.

has good relations with both govern-

ments. Future policy shculd be tailored
to maintain. this...We should take no
action to support 15 million people over
one billion others.”’ ;

Ford also stated that ‘‘at soemtime it
may become necessary to establish
military relations with the People’s

Republic.”’
