Ma CR ASEM AL EL <4

leet

Typography for the people

There is a new typesetting ma-

chine on campus, working under the

gis of the Davidsonian, and all the

_ world is abuzz about it. At least ever-
‘yone here at the Davidsonian has-
been caught up, in the fuss, and if

that’s.a representative, sampling then
this machine’s fame’ has become le-
gend. Your parents, through a-hon-
deductible contribution to the Activ-

ities Tax.(regressive, I’ m told), have |

bought a $22,000 typesetter for
your enjoyment. Permit us to show it
off a bit.

. The first thing to catch your eye

‘as you peruse the news is the size of

the type, Headlines are big, photo cred-

your very eyes — from normal size (eleven

points tall) to pre-1970°s Davidsonian standard

(eight points tall): It was a trifle small]

More typographic fun:.to fit a
tad more copy into a given space

- we slim each letter by four per-
gent. Why four? Visual. ap-
- peal. The machine could just

as well make it two or five-or
fifty, or even expand by. the
same amount. [The text. you

are reading has gradually »
expanded — before your

very eyes — to 130 percent
of it’s original (96 .percent)
size. ]

' jNot impressed? Here’s the
coup de grace — accents and special

= =

characters. Suppose Soren Kierke-

gaard were to pay us a call: we could
- say so. {If Nick Graham wants to put

CEdipus in this week’s film review,

then by all means let him! Ang- ;

stroms. Sefioritas. Zaire. Make up
your own if you like and send us a
letter about hgw had. «Himés» has
become. We can take it. (There is a
drawback. I was called upon to de-
scribe the day’s reading assignment

in D'Kaylor’s Jesus. “ *Pratorium’

was spelled ‘Praetorium,’ un-di-
graphed,” I observed. I was firmly

-rebuked. Typography does that.)

Beyond digraphs (AE, 2, CE, and ee).
lie the ligatures ‘fi’ and ‘fl.’ Beyond
ligatures: sup". infior and
SMALL CAPS. |

_Zip-plus-four

_ The campus got its new zip
code schema this week. and what a
blessing! If you haven't cracked the,
code yet; here's a tip. Append your -
box number to 28036. Compare. .
Neat trick with numbers. right? Sad-.
ly though, postage is hopping to «

twenty cents next month in order to

fund, one supposes, the Postal Think
Tank that dreamed it all up. What's —
next. ‘the campus asks. The day may

_ be forthcoming when the sleek zip-

plus-more code is inaugurated,
promising a new age in speedy mail
service. Here's how it might go,
should you wish to drop us a line
years’ hence:

its small. What the new typesetter can do
that other small machines can’t is change
typesize by the finest of fine degrees, al-

lowing us the esthetic freedom to self-select

Pes

fi
"the size most suitable to our format; [The text
you are reading has gradually shrunk — before

Dres sing. down A reply to Eric p Lang atid his Pakistani garb

For someone who displays a modicum of
intelligence in his aversion to prep and beach, Mr.
Long evidently chose not to utilize that degree of
intelligence while writing a major portion’ of his
article in the Davidsonian.

In “Dressing Up,” Mr. Long urges us to “look
beyond the Davidson image,” whatever he conceives
that to be. In an article attacking prejudices, Mr.
Long seems to have a few of his own.

“Mr. Long labels the “styles and’ standards” of the
South as “boring.” Well, therée’s no accounting for
taste, but as a Southerner, [can tell you just what my

Qld-man_-has-to tell those-who share your opinion a

love it or leave it.

You have identified the South with the prep look
and beach music. I am an authority on neither. but 1
refute your belief that their popularity can be
-explained in psychological and sociological terms.

I assert that the prep-look is not a fad but the

norm for the upper class.: Having lived among the _

ae class (though I do not considér myself to be
lu

ded in this group), I can assure you that whether.
You are in Ohio, Los Angeles, or Miami, the old men .

willbe wearing the same thing on. the golf « course.

> The reason for the prep-look popularity. among

others can be accounted for by several theories,
First, I theorize that people are aware-of the

degree of the freedom of expression they. have at

_ college. At’ home, where one is known by his past -

actions and appearances, one need not declare his
individuality and social class; the people included in
_ your. “practical .environment. are-aware of your
standing. However, when someone. arrives at
college, he can present whatever, image he chooses
to. The same-is true of several other situations, such
as atrip abroad ora simple vacation. , Many opt for the

"sophisticated, leader-of-the-pack image. However,

ead merely become et itng followers within that ‘ nes Mr. ae ee sere from pain that day.

Beare te Soh

“members. of. the’ upper’ ‘Class, they can,

fl fl f

anyway.

Lad

Andy Rock ’84

pack and are led by whatever social trend is embraced
by Madison Avenue or Hollywood. You can see that
this has nothing in common with tradition,

People also tend to mask their insecurities. The
only people who aren’t insecure are either.crazy or
dead. Some people cope with their insecurity by
endorsing guns. Some people cope with it by seeking

to restrict guns. Others seek to mask their insecurity
by fading into the group. ‘By wearing those “alligators _

and topsiders,” preppies are identifying themselves

. as being independently. insecure. For my purposes,

the term “preppies” does not include the true upper
class, who, with exceptions, generally display this
taste in fashion.
Preppies are also sensitive to the image of the
upper class as being satisfying. leisurely, and at once
very desirable, Though ‘they cannot become true
‘from
appearances, emulate the upper class. Thus, in the
relative freedom of the college environment. you
have what appeats to be a hell of a lot of wealthy,
socially élite students. Preppies aren't alone in this
general trend; one might be surprised to see the other
“worldly” possesions of many a Cadillac-owner.
This all comes back to.Mr. Long, and. his
controversial - Pakistani garb. Despite _ the

“worldliness” Mr. Long displays i in his example of ©
the leather-jacketed git! with “ornate tattoos over her |

legs and breasts,": Mr... Long still: doesn’t seem to
understand why his debut of Pakistani fashion was

_met with “laughs, and. snickers. behind [his]. back.”

: ‘eins ee 1981.

If none of this is your -
cup of tea, well and good.
You're probably one of
those who read for content
But the fruits are —
yours to enjoy, regardless.

The Davidsonian |

PO Box 218

Davidson, NC .
28036-02 18-NC-Davidson-
Davidsonian, The-28036

or were people just polite enough not to laugh in his
face?

Mr. Long must realize that people’s clothing is
an expression of themselves. Even the individual
insincerity of the prep-look is overshadowed by what
Mr. Long calls “a million other preps.” By wearing
preppy clothes, these people are identifying
themselves as being members of what amounts to a
“preppy consciousness.” What was Mr. Long
identifying himself. as? A Pakistani exchange
student? A subversive? A trail-blazing individual
doing battle withthe““Davidson norm?” Whatever he
was doing, it came off as what it was: trite. | am glad
that Davidson's students trusted their initial common
sense and socially: instilled instincts, subsequently
expressing their surprise and humor at Mr. Long’s
spectacle. Perhaps if we were true to our instincts, we
wouldn’t have those idiots: parachuting onto the
World Trade Center.

I didn’t have the opportunity to witness Mr.
Long’s fashion promenade or the reactions of the
observers, but I believe the only one at fault,
suffering from a lack of practical “r ‘nlightenment,”
was Mr. Long.

It is not that Mr. Long violated the norm that
illicited these reactions; it is his inherent insincerity
(possibly unknown to him) that shocked people and .
subsequently angered (embarrassed?) him. Mr. Long
is not a Pakistani. He is not an exchange student. This

‘is not Pakistan. Mr. Long got what he deserved.

The “weirdos” and “hippies” Mr. Long referred
to are sincere in their garb, just as | am when I pull on
my boots. | was wearing my clothes and listening to «
my music when Urban Cowboy was Saturday Night
Fever. If Mr. Long wants to avoid the social criticism

- and alienation he met with, | suggest he pack up his
Pakistani clothes and wear the clothes people are used
_ to seeing him in, be they oxfords, Nikes, or topsiders..

15.
