Davidson noise ordinance

Senior Joe Ford will be the student representative
~ to the Davidson Town Council subcommittee study-
ing a possible noise ordinance.

"Mayor. Nancy, MacCormac. asked Dean of Stu-
dents Will Terry.to. have a student. appointed to the

subcommittee. Dean Terry then asked SGA President

Chip Legerton to. appoint.a student.. Chip. said al-
though the SGA didn’t solicit applications,’ “about
ten people expressed interest” in the position. Chip
appointed Joe from from this group.

Chip said.the SGA chose Joe because they felt he
could “diplomatically represent the students and the
school.” They. purposely did not choose someone too
close to the problem, such as a member of SPE or FI-
JI, the two off-campus fraternities. The initiative for
a noise, ordinance began after an outdoor party at the
SPE house on North Main Street. “We don’t want to
cause conflict with the town,” Chip said.

Dean Terry said an ad hoc committee of students
‘ will meet today to see if the College can find other
ways to help the situation. The committee will have

no official status with’ the: College or the town. The

members of the committee are SPE President Ralph.”

Taylor, FIJI President Jim Troutman, Patterson

‘Court Council Ercalgent Joni Seehorn, Dean Terry,

and Joe Ford.
The other ndbibbees of the town subcommittee are

Mayor MacCormac, Davidson town Police Chief He-

bron Mills, Town Councilmen Russell Knox and Ru-
tledge Withers, North Main Street residents Margaret
Potts and Mary Fetter Stough, and two College repre-
sentatives, Dean Terry, and Joe.

Mayor MacCormac said the subcommittee will
start meeting the second week in November.

Officials from the State Division of Environmen-
tal Management will be in Davidson to conduct a
noise survey at that time. This is necessary to set stan-
dards for the possible ordinance.

The state officials will also teach town officers

how to operate equiptment to measure noise levels.
This equiptment would be used if an ordinance were
enacted. This equip ment costs $500 to $1500, May-

or MacCormac said.

At this point, the only work done toward enacting
an ordinance is to form the subcommittee and arrange
for the noise survey. The town has also collected
sample noise ordinances from other college towns

‘ such as Raleigh and Chapel Hill, as v Il as other

towns.

The subcommittee will study these sample ordi-
nances and hear comments from residents and other
interested people. Mayor MacCormac estimates the
subcommittee will “make a proposal within a couple
of months perhaps.”

Mayor MacCormac stressed that all the meetings
will be open to the public. Discussion is in “no way li-
mited to this group. . . . It is not intended to be a rep-
resentative committee, but a group of folks to study
the. issue.” If the subcommittee proposes an ordi-
nance, the town will hold public hearings before the
ordinance is enacted.

By Jeffrey Mann ’84.

yu . a ie beter

you he vesiine:

Natural Foods ¢ Cheeses « Wines © imported Beers
Coffées e Teas © Gourmet Kitchen’ Items

"128 §. Main St ® P.O. Box 607 © Davidson, NC 26096 » 704/802-7521

HALLOWEEN TREATS

: ‘awarded to students accepted into medi-
a spook as freshmen ¢ or at the ia f

day 30 October 1981
