—__— eovscummmneniel

Griffith presents admissions study
Today Director of Admissions John Griffith will present a
study to the Trustees concerning the College’ s admissions policy.
pe, 5 Griffith asked the Trustees last spring to have him conduct
the study in order to determine. if the current policies of the
' Admissions Department are appropriate for Davidson, and to
decide if any changes in the admissions system might benefit the
College. -
The Trustees are expected to discuss the report and suggest
changes D‘ Griffith might make before he finalizes the report. The
report will pro sbably be made public next week...

Homecoming nominees

representatives last week, and students have voted to decide which
representatives will be Homecoming Queen. The Queen will be
announced and introduced along with her court during the halftime
of tomorrow’s game.

The Representatives and their escorts are:

Emanon: Barbara Kelley, Tucker Burks
F&M: Lucy Philips, Rob Gillison
PAX: Sidney Foreman, Mike Healy
Fiji: Julie Vanderpool, Sam Fullerton
Phi Delt: Margaret Erwin, Bob Kear
Rusk: Knox Douglas, Nick Viest oo
KA: Sandy Fossett, Eric Crum
SAE: Anne Keith, Rick Gaines
PiKA: Rebecca Cross, Tom Clark
ATO: Pheobe Forio, Doug Vass

_ SPE: Penny Godshall, Ralph Taylor’
3rd West Belk: Leesa McPhail, Nevins Todd
ETC: Shannon Hamilton, Mark Hammond
BSC: Kay Boyd, Brian Rowan |

Term paper company changes policy
The Pacific Research Company of Seattle, which sells research
papers, will begin releasing the names of students who bought
papers from them. The company will also include more explicit

no longer offer “custom research.” See page | article for details.

Student returns stolen funds |

organization completed his settlement with the College this.week. .
The College received a check for $350 on Wednesday. This

amount added to the amount the student returned previously: covers
~ the total funds stolen. The student did not t pay interest on'the poney

am * : a a Ro et 2g >

-Student organizations selected __ their Homecoming

warnings about penalties for fraudulent use of the papers, and will

_ Watson nominees named.

The College notified this year’ s Watson Fellowship nominees
of their nominations on Wednesday: Seniors Bill Bargman, James
Gelly, Alice Musick, and Betsy Thomas now move to the next level
of competition for the awards.

Homecoming!

Homecoming Weekend is here again. Activities include
Highland Games this afternoon on the Chambers Lawn, the Delbert
McClinton concert at 8 p.m. in the gym, and John Stanfield at 10
p.m. and 11:30 p.m.

Davidson will confront Hampden-Sydney at 2 p.m. tomorrow.
Night activities include the Homecoming dance with “Chaser” at
the Commons at 9 pm and John Stanfield at 10 pm and 11:30 pm.
The Union will sponsor a breakfast at the Commons. *

See the Campus Calendar for more details.

Contruction behind Watts

So you’ve been wondering what’s going ¢ on behind Watt s?

Physical Plant. Director Grover Meetze, the construction is a
“continuation of the walk from the Commons.”
. Mr. Meetze said the brick circular bench under construction
will “help direct the flow of traffic.” The purpose of the structure is
to cover up the mechanical system that includes drains and vents.
The area will also have some landscaping. .

Mr. Meetze said that long range plans include building similar
areas behind each of the dorms.

Financial trouble across the continent

Last month Washington State Governor John Spellman
unexpectedly ordered a ten percent budget cut for all state school
and agencies. The cut has forced the University of Washington to
prohibit students to declare or switch majors because the college
will have to omit several majors from the curriculum. .

Of the state schools involved, the UWash is being affected the
most. The college has returned all new applications, and they may
have to drop around 3600 current students.

How much can the computer handle?

Two. weeks ago, the Davidsonian reported that the new
computer system can handle up to 32 terminals. That was right for
as far as it goes, but it was not the full story, according to Computer

Services Director Robert DiSieno.
The student who embezzeled $2500 from a campus

He said right now each of the two computers can handle up to.

32 “ports,” or direct connections to. the computers. Terminals .

connect to.the computer through a switchboard-like device called

_ Gandalf, however, so that in practice each of the computers can now
) service > Up to 45 terminals z at once.

John Siman: Editor oy Tim Whalen, News Editor
Dave Banks ExecutiveEditor oe SN ciple goo News Editor

Dey

The Devideonien is published Fridays during the echo!

year by the students of Davidson College. Address cor- Roy Fuller | Features Editor,
respondence to: Davideonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC — KY AnneGoodwin FeaturesEditor
20096. Phone 704/882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices o- ~—= = NewtonAlllen Asst. Features Editor

cated on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscrip-
tions cost $10 per yeer. Advertising rates available on

James Barrat Opinions Editor 4 ~ James Moore Production Manager
Dan Turk WorldViewEditor . ~ Lisa Buckley Head Compositor

Lucy Eweratt Calendar Editor Kathy Gingrich Compositor
vigthy John Lusk Compositor .
aybe: A veitising Naniager
t Myers E Subscription Manager. Bill Appleton ArtEditor
ey JimRumiley Staff Artist.

eit yhucaaee pe x the: HeadPhotographer Paul Schulz Staff Artist.
"request. Second clase postage no. USPS 149,300 1. SteveSoud SportsEditor sad Sacan Photo Production ' Todd Swofford Staff Artist
— en

ae ee ee

lL _ DAMIDSOMIAN ¢ Friday 29,Onnehen 1984

