February 6, 1981—The Davidsonian—5

Pornography versus literature, church versus state — What price libertine?

2.

Rob Campany 81

Several months ago Sheriff Robert Clendenen of
Washington County, Virginia—my home county —re-
ceived an anonymous letter informing him that
pornographic literature was being sold in some local
bookstores. Investigation led to the indictment of three
county businessmen for selling Hustler, Dude, and
other such publications. The initial trial, which ended
in a hung jury, illustrated the confusion generated by
the Supreme Court’s use of ‘‘community standards’’ for
deciding which kinds of material fall outside the scope
of the First Amendment. During the trial the defense
attorney went to the public library of the county,
checked out Harold Robbins’ The Lonely Lady and
Sidney sheldon’s Bloodline, and introduced them into
the trial as evidence to prove that Abingdon’s
“community standards’’ emcompass the kind of
literature the three businessmen were selling.

This move aroused the pastor of the local Emmanuel
Baptist Church, the Reverend Tom Williams—a man
with Moral Majority connections (Jerry Falwell’s
Lynchburg is only a couple of hours up the
interstate) — from his dogmatic slumber. He went to the
public library and determined that there is ‘‘no way to
guess, or even to estimate” the pornographic profusion
prevalent there— which probably means he couldn’t be
bothered to count. On November 10 Williams even
demanded the names of people who had checked out
some books objectionable to him. Meanwhile, Williams’
associate Bobby Sproles, who happened to be
Chairman of the County Board of supervisors,
threatened to cut off funds for the library if it did not
remove the offending books, all of which , as librarian
Kathy Russell pointed out, had been requested by
several regular patrons of the library who, of course,
also pay taxes.

Williams and Sproles interpret Virginia’s popular

support. for Reagan as a mandate for censorship.
Pornography, Sproles told the Washington County
News, goes against ‘‘the morals of the majority of
people in the county;” Reagan’s Virginia success,
coupled with the popularity of Jerry Falwell’s Moral
Majority, ‘‘is a firm indication of the way people think
throughout the state,” he said. Williams threatened
that ‘‘in spite of the libertines, the absolute will
prevail.’’ The so-called libertines ’’must realize they
can’t impede the change. All they can do is to be run
over.

Fortunately, however, the majority of Washington
County citizens do not seem to favor such demagogue-
ry. The local Kiwanis Club has published a stinging
rebuke of Sproles and Williams and an endorsement of
the library; fifteen other civic clubs and the local
ministerial association have concurred. The vast
majority of letters to the Washington County News and
to other local newspapers have sharply criticized
Sproles and Williams. Most promisingly, a League of
County Voters has been formed to counter the politics
of Sproles and Williams and to investigate charges of
maladministration of county funds by the Board of
Supervisors. This League may prove necessary to
protect citizens’ liberty, since Williams has threatened
to put up an ‘‘anti-pornographic’’ slate of candidates
for county executive offices if the offending books are
not out of the library by fall.

At any rate, this controversy, like so many similar
cases frequently reported (cf. Anthony Abbott, ‘‘The
Moral Majority Protests Brave New World —Iredell
County Showdown,”’ The Davidsonian, 16 jan. 1980),
illustrates a few important moral and political
problems. The principle implicitly recognized by both
the Moral Majoritarians and the League of County
Voters is that the function and nature of public goods

like schools and libraries should be determined by a
voting procedure which sums people's preferences and
recommends a policy based on those preference sums.
Ideally, this principle assumes that people’s prefer-
ences are purely ‘“‘personal,”’ that is, that they reflect
only people’s preferences for their own benefit. and
enjoyment. But people also notoriously have ‘‘exter-
nal” preferences for the assignments of goods to other
people. The problem for the principle at hand— prefer-
ence utilitarianism — is to find a way to count personal
but not external preferences. Washington County

. needs a way of electorally tallying only people's

preferences for reading material for themselves and
their children; what it has is an electoral system that
allows people to express by their vote their preference
for what other people read.

This problem is probably insoluble on a practical
level. It raises the more fundamental question of why
such goods as libraries and schools should be provided
through compulsory taxation in the first place,
insteadof through private means or at least through
tuition tax credits. As long as such institutions remian
monistic and in the public domain, they will be subject
to majority control; and majority control involves
external preferences, people casting votes to determine
what other people may read and learn. Surely this is an
argument, though not necessarily a decisive one, for
removing governmental control from these areas of our
lives. Wherever we let democratic government in, we
must also let in people like Reverend Williams and
Bobby Sproles — people who are of the opinion that ‘‘in
spite of the libertines, the absolute will prevail,’’ and
who usually assume ‘‘the absolute’ to be identical with
their own (doubltess widely held) opinion.

Rob Campany is a senior philosophy major from

U.S. fueling Latin American violence

Danny Armistead ‘82

Editor's Note: Danny Armistead wrote a
column last week in which he argued
that American foreign policy in Latin
America runs opposite to American
ideals.

If my article last week was in anyway
indicative of the situation in Latin
America it certainly represents what is
now occuring in El Salvador. In 1930 a
military coup set up a succesion of
military regimes that remained un-
broken until October of 1979. This
dictatorship first showed its fangs in
1932 when 30,000 demonstrators were
massacred while protesting ‘dismissal
from work and expulsion from planta-
tions (William Wiplfer, ‘‘El Salvador:
Reform as Cover for Repression”’ in
Christianity and Crisis, May 12, 1980).
Injustice continued under an institution-
alized inequitable land tenure system
upheld by law that allowed the upper
two percent of the population to own 60
percent of the land and left 91 percent
with 22 percent of the land. El Salvador
is a country of five million people and is
about the size of Massachusetts. This
results in ‘a condition of virtual serfdom
for large numbers of landless peasants
and for those whose tiny plots cannot
support their families.’’ Furthermore,
the large land owners have consistantly
raised export crops on their land rather
than those crops necessary for domestic
consumption creating ‘‘a situation of

_endemic malnutrition affecting all of the
‘nation’s poor.’’
What has been the United States’

The Davidsonian welcomes col-
‘umns on any subject. We reserve the
right to edit for clarity, length, and
accuracy. Call Opinions Editor James —
Barat {-6257}.if interested.

Columns do not necessarily repre-
sent the.view s of Davidsonian editors
or staff.

response to such a deplorable situation?
An analysis done be the Institute for
Policy Studies showed that U.S. secur-
ity assistance to El] Salvador between
1950 and 1979 was $16.72 million in the
form of military hardware, education,a
and training. Also 1,971 Salvadoran
officers were trained by the U.S. in riot
control, military intelligence, and com-
bat techniques. Throughout the 1970's
internal unrest escalated in farse elec-
tions and then in a military coup in
October of 1979. The new leaders talked
of reform and were quickly labled as
“moderates” by the U.S. press. In the
same months government troops killed
seven workers and detained 90 in a
strike. That same day mass meetings in
several rural towns were attacked leav-
ing 50 dead and 60 wounded. Thus
repression continued. What was the
U.S. response? In November $200,000
worth of antiriot equipment was given to
the Salvadoran government. This trend
of military support inspite of repressive
actions continues today.

Does this situation sound familiar? It
should because it is an old story which
Latin American people are tired of
living. Is it any wonder that they are
revolting? Would they not take advan-

tage of any source of arms to protect |

themselves and fight for a better chance
in life? Neither side is holy but how we

_ justify supporting the repressive dictat-

orship in El Salvador and say that we are

a nonaggressive, freedomloving people is
_not evident to me. So where does this
leave Latin Americans but .in rural areas:

and in over-populated cities fighting for
their lives against poverty and malnu-

- trition. Meanwhile, U.S: supported .
troops are busy killing angered peasants -

and a few communists under the.

pretence of stopping the Communist
takeover of Latin America.

Ddliny Armistead is a junior religion
major in a pre-medicine program.

Abingdon, Virginia.

¢)

; ~

JOW THE ARMY

EATEN cel R RUITMENT] | vscte sun)
MEET INTERESTING | |. a " WANTS you!
PEOPLE... C

Nuke debates on TV now in real life.

James Barrat ‘83

Last wek I participated in a WSOC
TV interview with Jess Riley, an anti-
nuclear activist, and Doug Hord, a rep-
resentative of Westinghouse Campus
America. A roaming lobbyist for West-
inghouse Corporation, Mr. Hord extolls
the safety and efficiency of nuclear en-
ergy and attempts to quell the waves of
opposition that periodically rise against
iton the nation’s campuses.

Primarily, Mr. Hord rationalized the

- establishment of nuclear pants from the

perspective of political necessity. He
believes it is imperative for the U.S. to
develop alternative energy sources —pri-
ncipally nuclear fission—in order to

avoid political blackmail from oil-export- .

nations. But at-what cost?. Drawn back
to the issue of safety, Mr. Hord and Mr.

the effects of. radiation. emitted at the
Three Mile Island accident on unborn
children and on jivestock in the area. Mr.

. Hord: admitted that-research.on the
effects of radiation on genetic structures.

“subsequent, generations of a population

exposed to radioactivity is, he said,

dence’ gathered from survivors of the
atom-bombings in Japan.
The unanswered questions about the

:wraught

safety of nuclear energy plants should
generate profound concern in Davidson
and Mecklenburg County, as the
McGuire plant now nears opening, just
five miles from campus. But due to the
efforts of the Carolina Environmental
Study Group (CESG), the liscensing
hearings for the McGuire Plant have
been reopened. At the hearing, schedu-
led for February 24, Duke Power Com.
pany has agreed to discuss the safety of

Nuclear energy’s safety record is rel-
atively clear compared to the damages
by tors fueled with coal.
The U.S. does suffer as a result of
dependency on foreign nations for fuel,
but the potential for a tragedy. of epic

‘proportions from using light water

nuclear reactors—still a very young and _
unproven energy source—demands pain-

staking scrutiny of atomic power, both
. by the companies running them and the

later this month offer a unique opportun-
ity for us, the most closely affected, to
participate in the examination of the
McGuire plant and its practical safety.
After an accident, it will be too late.

James Barrat is the Opinions Editor

_for The Davidsonian.
