Williamson takes Bio Dept. helm

by Sheri Lind ‘84

Behind the walls of the Dana
science building or perhaps at a recent
coffee and cokes students may have
caught a glimpse of one of Davidson’s
new faculty members. Dr. J. H. Will-
iamson is a genetics expert and the new
chairman of the biology department.

Dr. Williamson is a native of North
Carolina and a graduate of the Universi-
ty of North Carolina. He did graduate
work at Cornell and the University of
Georgia. After finishing school he
worked for the Oak Ridge National La-
boratories and later spent two years at
the University of California at River-
side. His most recent years were spent
involved in a 12 year professorship at
the University of Calgary in Alberta,
Canada.

Along with these academic and in-
dustrial accomplishments, Dr. William-
son is member of the Genetic Studies.
Section of the National -Institute of
Health, an organization which screens
proposals for federally funded: scientific
experiments. This position is-both an
honor and a learning experience; it in-

volves reading: 87 experiment propos- -

als, thus keeping him informed of the
newest developments i in genetics.

Interest in research
As head of the biology department,
Dr. Williamson will be responsible for
developing a student-oriented research

Biology Professor J.H. Williamson

photo by Elizabeth Elkin 8s.

program. With the help of federal
funds, he hopes both to modernize the
biology department and involve two to
ten students in active research. He
points out that this type of program will
be beneficial to both biology and pre-
med students. The program will enable
them to be prepared for more advanced
graduate and professional school re-

‘search because it will help students

learn to ask their own questions, formu-
late their own experiments, collect data
and follow up with conclusions and new
questions.

In his first months at Davidson, Dr.
Williamson enjoys. the friendliness of
faculty, students and staff as well as the
open communication among faculty.
The new professor is also looking for-
ward to seeing the Honor Code in effect
in contrast to the strict observation of
students necessary at large universities.

Dr. Williamson views his future at
Davidson as a type of experiment. After
12 years at a large university, he hopes
to stay here-for the next twelve and then
decide where he should. have spent the
entire 24 years.

by Stewart Cauley
The Squeeze:.“East Side Story” (onA
& M Records).

The Squeeze have come of age
in America. Although there’s no Top
40 singles on the Squeeze’s new “East
Side Story” LP, a quick glance at

- Rolling Stone's top 100 LP’s reveals

Or is it all that surprising?

the Squeeze’s surprising entry at 13".

Not since the Beatles’ “Rubber
Soul” and “Revolver” albums has
England produced such an intelligent,
charismatic pop sound. Like the Bea-
tles in their ‘lovable pop’ period, the
Squeeze are also looking for an
American audience.

The Squeeze have never been
anywhere but “top of the pop” for the
last few years in Britain. All of their

ie

ie)

Record review: Eastside Story’

The Squeeze cross the Aflaptic—at last

. place to’start and even without anoth-

albums have sat on the top slot of the

pop charts and have produced more
big-selling, memorable singles than
any group since punk rock sent good
music to the underground trade in the
mid-seventies. Their title track off
“Cool for Cats” was the number one
single two summers ago for weeks,

‘becoming A & M Records’ best sell-

ing single ever.

Immigration

“Eastside Story” falls hot on the
tail of the Squeeze’s highly successful.
North American tour and. none too. .
late. With the trendy English market
falling. mostly for synthesised Euro-
disco and Blitz, the Squeeze were li-
terally squeezed “right ‘out. ‘of: their ;
-home market. Like all immigrants,
‘the Squeeze have left, their: fame ‘at .
‘ home and have to prove thmselves all’

over again. “Eastside Story” is a good

er record it should easily  estasblish

‘ them as the most intelli ent and taste-
, ful pop group in some time...

i

én

Although the lyrics are distinctly

‘British middle class (usually hovering i

‘between beds and bars), the social
} commentary within them seems to. .
‘have more application to the Amer- -.
ican ‘80s than England’s ridiculous .
‘steel punk anarchy. The Eleanor Rig-

“ She sees heryeflection ina butcher shop

“good “Eastside Story” is long. Origi-

* was vetoed by A & M'whio made Cos-

-SENCE.”) Still, the album provides

-and roll. “Eastside’ Story” gets aplace
on my. shelf rightbetween’ ‘Armed

by-ish “Vanity Fair” is a quiet ballad
that a lot of my high-school-dropout-
now-textile-worker friends should
have playing in their red °66 Novas:

She left her school for the factory

From pocket-money to a salary

From a pack-a-mack to a‘compact case
And every morning she inspects the face _
She discovers pulling pints in pubs

That the good looks will never cover up
For her dumbness in taking stock ]

She finds it, all quite rare
That hep meas’ sall Vanity F Fair.
af BS, vet —Glenn Tilbrook

For, an album this tight and this

nally it was meant to be released as
two LPs with Paul MacCartney, Nick
Lowe, Dave Edmunds, and Elvis
Costello each producing a side, (This

tello-head producer and let Edmunds
sit at the knobs for “INQUINTES-

almost fifty minutes of all tight rock

Forces” and “Rubber Soul.” “Amer-
ican Pop” should be glad this quintes-
sential quintet crossed ie Atlantic —
at last. —

oa

"page 19/DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1961

