Won en hit Regionals 2nd in State

The ‘Fat One’ leads men to fifth place showing in Charleston

The DC women’s cross.country team took top ho-
nors in last week’s Citadel Invitational meet in Cha-
rleston, SC. Junior Marian. Hill dominated for the
Lady Thinclads, finishing first overall in 19:52 and
setting the course record for the one-circuit five-ki-
" lometer trail. It was Marian’s type of course, very flat
and sandy, with only a few sharp turns. Although the
speed on this week’s top five was.a little over one
minute, the team looked very impressive overall,
downing UNC — Wilmington 19~—4} in the dual meet
score. Coach Sterling Martin called the race “perhaps
the best team race of the season” and called the 19 —
41 margin a “decisive win.’

Sophomore Tamara. Foreman finished second ‘

overall in 20:00, running her typicat slow start, fast
finish style. Tamara noted that the sandy final mile of
_the course was a disadvantage because the poor trac-
tion makes it very difficult to finish strong. Freshman
Sarah Patterson ran a strong race, crossing the finish
in 20:22, fourth overall], Sarah has been a major fac-
‘tor in the team’s success, placing consistently in the
top three or four for the Cats. Jean Webb (20:32) con-
tinued her string of good races, as she and Elisabeth
Hargrove (21:19) rounded out the top five finishes for
Davidson.
Martin cited the sixth, seventh and eighth place
finishers, Chris Sec] (21:21), Gina M‘°Gee (22:09)
and Sarah Todd (22:16), as responsible for the team’s
overwhelming strength, giving the girls “unmatched

depth” in intercollegiate competition. Most Division
II cross country squads are hard pressed to field more
than three or four talented athletes, even with scholar-
ships available. Davidson has no female runners on
scholarship. This team could, in. fact, be the best
women’s team at Davidson this year, and hopes are

high (as well as mileage; confidence, and condition-

ing) going into the AIAW Region II meet on 2 No-
vember at George Mason University in Fairfax, Vir-
ginia. They aré second only to: Wake Forest among
Division II teams in the state and with a strong team
race in the AIAW meet they will certainly place well
in the regional.

The Citadel has traditionally pounded. the DC har-
riers in the regular season only to be embarrassed in
the Southern Conference meet, the season finale, the
race that counts. Indeed the guys got “trampled” 23 —
33 at the hands of the Citadel in the Citadel Invitation-
al in Charleston, SC, last Saturday. In the overall re-
sults, the abuse was worse, as Campbell University
(which Davidson has beaten three times this season)

- finished first, and Davidson, fifth in the eight-way

meet. The only bright spot last Saturday was the one-

- point squeaker over. UNC- + Wilmington 29 — 28 in the

dual meet tally.

Indeed it seemed as if no one. but sophomore
Frank “Fat One” Ivey was in form on Saturday. He
paced the Cat effort with a 33:35 for the sandy ten-ki-
lometer course, fifteenth-overall. Franklin was fol-

lowed by ailing team captain Randy McManus (se-
venteenth; 33:46), who was hampered by a large boil
on his left hip which had to be opened twice on Thurs-
day and Friday. The “Old Man” could hardly walk on
Friday, and was obviously in a great deal of pain dur-
ing the race. The injury has strangely healed in as
many days as it took to develop, and Randy will be
back 100% to pace the Cats in the upcoming Southern
Conference meet. Jack Smith ran a tough race as
well, fighting off cramps and opponents to finish
34:05, twenty-fourth overall. Danny Armistead and
Garry Sullivan rounded out the top five, finishing
twenty-seventh and thirty-fourth overall in 34:26 and
34:41. It could be that some of those BLP rituals ar-
en’t helping their racing form much.

The conference meet on 7 November will essen-
tially be the roughest meet of the season for the Cats,
now 0 — 5 on the season against conference oppo-
nents. Running czar Sterling Martin seems to think
that the team’s best bet will be a close victory over the
Citadel, with a few runners placing well overall.
Conditions should be good — cool — and the course
flat, hopefully an advantage to our guys, who normal-
ly run well on hilly terrain. The race will be in Hun-
tington, WV*, at Marshall University.

By John Hoots ’82

New Sailing Prints
Perfect for Framing

DAVIDSONIAN:/ Friday 30-Octobier 1981

- THE COPELAND
-HOUSE GALLERY
305 N. Main St.
892-3005

: DRUGS

“Serving Davidson For Sixteen Years”
131 N. Main Street ¢ Davidson, N.C.

892-0208.

Mon. - Sat. 9 - 6; Tatnciedh Chased oni Sun.
Senior Citizen Discou ount> 10%

27.
