On the campus ——

It is no small feat to demand equal
rights with a smile, but the ladies of the
Women’s Center have done just that. If
you threw away your copy of Airborne
(their entry into the Davidson media
business), go rustle one up and read it
through. You’ll like it. “Our flyer

flies. Fold on dotted lines.” I did and it
does. “The coffee is hot every morning
at ten...Come read your mail and

ours.” It is and you should. They sub- .

scribe to the Wall Street Journal and
the New Yorker, good reading during
your ten o’clock break.

2 omer the-wal =
housing porch furniture ballyhoo they
~ spofisored a somewhat tongue-in-

These gals, understand are cle

-cheek outdoor exhibit. “Porches,” they
christened it, “in the tradition of
‘Rooms’” (last year’s. Gallery. exhibit

_of rooms qua art). We paid them a call

last Saturday, taking care to stay off
President Spencer’s lawn..next door,
arriving before the judging began and
closely inspected the entries. (1).A bat-
tered chair. (2) A swing. (3) A love
seat. (4) A place setting on a ratty card
table. (5) A porch/attic, complete with
rug, furniture, bicycles (upturned),
mop, firewood, and Pete the dog. Of-

The new drug store paraphenaliz law

Paraphernalia 3. .Law formerly,
property or possessions given over to
the control and possession of a wife.

Or so says Webster’s New World
about paraphernalia and the law. As of

1 October 1981, that description be- -

came even more dated. Over the sum-
mer, the NC legislators enacted into
law a bill outlawing all drug-related
paraphernalia:.(General Statute 90 -
113.15 to 113.19, just in case your GS
book :is handy), making possession a
misdemeanor punishable by up to $500
and a year;in jail. If it strikes you that
you're likely to get a.stiffer sentence
for the clips and rolling papers than
what’s clipped and. rolled, you’re
right. Beginning to get-the idea?

We. gave the Assistant Attorneys
General a call in Raleigh to find out just
what is going down in the world of ju-
risprudence. It was tougher than you
might at first think, Mike Carpenter,
NC Assistant Attorney General / Spec-
ial Prosecution Division, was out of
town. Joan Byers and Dan Higgins, al-
so in the NCAAGSPD, were simply
out. We were referred to Tom Moffit in
Environmental Protection — it seems he
prepared a brief j just last week invoking
the new law. He, of course, was out.

“Explain, if you’re pre-law, why Envir-

onmental Protection was prosecuting
paraphernaliacs. A good question fs
expect on the next round of LSATs,

Having good sense we re-rang Joan
B., who was still out for the second day
(in court, to boot), and settled for her
secretary, who was helpful enough.
She read from the statute: no

blenders, bowls, mixers, spoons;

envelopes, rolling papers, clips, or
balloons (meter added).

Bongs and needles are out too, and
straws if you’re prone to sniff, but all
that is pretty obvious stuff.

So, what to do? Before discarding
all your tweezers and baggies, take
comfort in this: you’re safe as long as
no one can prove you have any intent to
ever use them drug-wise, cross your
heart and hope to die.

A drug user advises us that one finds
alternate uses for innocuous-looking

‘items, such as guns, rope, thumbtacks,

pencils, and cal¢ulators — just use your
imagination.
~ Sound simple enough?

See you in court.

On the right: the new Ronco pipe /
potato peeler | oboe / bong | pocket-

knife / breathalyzer | snifter. Strict-— .
ly illegal in North Carolina. Except ©

for the oboe.

The hound and the squirrels. A fable.

“An old: hound was particularly in-
clined tor chase local Squirrels, As: he-
lived near.a wood, he found plentiful
victims for his sport, taking much plea-

_ when he- ran them up the oaks. The
hound cared nothing for the ‘catch —
the mere chase was’ entertainment
enough. .

The resident strict calleda Grand
Council ‘Meeting to: discuss-the nui-
sance. “What shall be done about the
hound menace?” they asked them-
selves, “He will not accept our acoms
and nuts as a peace offering, and we.
can. hardly mount a retaliatory ctaie
ourselves.”

26

“Stay right here in the oaks," said

the Grand: Council Poohbah; “Stock- .

pile all the nuts you can —~ enough for

. the: next. few. winters — and-wait for.
‘sure in nipping their’furry little tails’

that old’ hound to’ come back round”
again.”

ficial Judge Herb “Earth Wind and

pronounced number (1) the winner of
the competition. We supposed it was
because Pete the dog had abandoned
the easy chair in (6).

If you missed the contest, don’t
feel left out completely. The gals are.
busy making the Women’s Center the
campus’ focal point for viviparous top-
ics and have started up their year’s ca-
lendar of speakers. Check the Campus
Calendar for this Sunday’s and
Wednesday’s dialogues, and make

some free time after dinner to hear
them.

The hound -eagerly eyed’ the tree-’ | Acorns began raining on:his furrowed

bound community in the following
days, waiting for some hapless squirrel - ;

to wander groundward. A. week pass- | .

ed. He: grew restless, growling and.

pawing: the oak trunks. Still no: equir-:: ets

rels below’ -
Suddenly, ‘thump! Thump tip:

ise? iadors0: ES yeas \WAIMOEOIVAT
DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1981

"Old head.-The squirrel battalion was.

' hurling its surplus victuals — with
“deadly: accuracy: — ‘on. the, disgraced
hound below. as

“The hound ran for cover, but squir-

~ felg were everywhere and the battery

‘- was constant: Head throbbing he ‘hol-
‘Jered up: Kind ‘sirs, your point is well
made! Stop: this pelting ‘and I swear
néver to chase ‘another squirrel. We

can share the ground peaceably.

The squirrels laughed back: You
foolish old’ hound! We have no need to

‘leave these trees. We are content just
: where we are.

Dave Banks is Executive Editor of the |
Davidsonian.
