Box 248

Davidson, NC 28036-02;8

Evaluating professors

To the Editor: ~
The Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures, as
drawn up by the Faculty Committee on Professional
Affairs and the administration and adopted by the fac-
ulty in 1979, calls for student participation in the eva-

luation procedures. The relevant paragraph is con-

tained in Section III, Paragraph 2, Students:

Students are in an especially favorable position to
assess the instructor's enthusiasm for the subject,
concern for them, and clarity in presentation.
They can testify to the instructor’s. availability,
fairness, and care in evaluating their work. The
satisfaction of students with the instruction they
are receiving is an important ingredient in the
morale of an institution. It is therefore apptop-
riate that their views be ascertained by means of

__ interviews, letter, evaluation forms, or other me-
thods. |

In an effort to provide the most comprehensive in-
formation concerning teaching, the faculty and ad-
ministration have jointly adopted the ICES evalua-
tion of teaching system. The data obtained from the

evaluation of all members of the facylty.each term by .
students in all regularly scheduled classes provide a

very important element in the total evaluation picture

and furnishes. a background for interviews, letters, «
and:other comments. It is extremely important that.

students approach the task of filling out the evalua-
tion forms responsibly and conscientiously. ‘They are
being asked, in filling out the forms, to participate in
an evaluation process concerning the effectiveness of
daticid poe ices mes tad Boe

Pelpepriereceeop ey

Ths fix poco uc oeine aectiet eter keteacton
Additional questions have been chosen by the. in-

structor, or sometimes the department as a whole, in

ire — for aa

nding to hi aention tings tha ou thik they
ought to know,

, "fhe profesor will sppoint a stodent 00 gather up :
the forms Ce

Wo ee 5

a ae
Ms A

them ‘directly to the Office of the Vice President for
Academic Affairs. The instructor does not review the

_completed forms until they have been tabulated —

about three weeks after the conclusion of the term.
The process is thus completely confidential. /

For those instructors who feel that students
should be on record for their responses in so impor-
tant a matter, a signature sheet is provided. In this
case the student response sheet is numbered, with
each number corresponding to a black on a signature
sheet. Thé signature sheet is returned directly to the

Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs .

where it is kept on file. It is not seen by the instructor,
and anonymity of student responses is preserved.
Hansford M. Epes

Chairman, Professional Affairs Committee

T.C. Price Zimmermann,
Vice President for Academic Affairs

In response to
“BSC on the wrong track”

To the Editor:

When I read the letter to the editor “BSC on the

wrong track” m my first inclination was to totally ignore

it. After careful reflection, I decided that it needed a
response. I am terribly disappointed with the incom-
peterice and irresponsibility of i iny fellow Davidson-
ians. When one writes an opinion, a protest, or any-

thing for that matter, one should, first, have the com-

petence to convey a clear and understandable mes-

_ Sage. Some parts of the letter question the signifi-
cance of the very existenc¢ of the BSC, while the title.

and other parts suggest that its. “motives”, are, ques-
tionable. What is the argument? . Secondly, one

should have the courage to state adamantly his opin-
ion. (Especially when sensitive accusations of dis-
crimination and segregation are involved.) When one
protests against something, apologies do not consti-
tute the majority of the protest. These half apologies

ularas~ throughout the letter suggest that the writers know _
ret 3 “nothing about which they write, which leads me to”
. | these reponse wl goth teinsctorand ~ the third and most |
ity ly open Spey sah pamrcoptenc tea ;

- have the.int so Heconiadcaor ge

ga obey ie eae uae ic |

summed up in their final statementon the matter. “We

merely feel that if group chooses to distinguish itsel-
Cid bbe on the bale of someting etter taae-an .

“that-which he protests. The writers of “BSC:on the
; pe metal leornt ofte inc ndet “

issue that has taken (and will take) years to resolve.”

What issue is that?!! We are the Black Student Coali-
tion. How havé we and how does one propose to re-
solve blackness. If one chooses to believe that all
people have somehow evolved to be colorless, he is
terribly disillusioned. Why would one want to be-
lieve this? When someone tells me “I see you as a per-
son, I don’t see color,” he has immediately insulted
me, not to mention thew fact tha he is lying. He has
taken away my color and assumed that I don’t wish to
acknowledge it. The failure of the writers of “BSC on
the wrong track” to present any other reasons for ac-
cusing the BSC of discrimination and segregation

‘suggests that the only reason for their accusations is

our common acknowledgement of being black. That
is ludicrous, absurd, and unjust. We are organized
with a common interest and a common cause. Ob-
viously the writers of the letter do not know and-have
never tried to inform themselves of thje BSC’s func-
tion on campus. The have just conveniently assumed
that it is a form of segregation. Thus, they have gen-

_eralized the Davidson College Black Student Coali-

tion, thereby commiting one of the cruelest forms of
descrimination: stereotyping.

This discrepancy could and should have been re-
solved simply by questioning the BSC leadership, the
Davidson College administration or any of the BSC
members.

One should never assume anything blindly, for it
is a gross embarasment to the accusor and a terrible
injustice to the accused to publicly protest ignorantly..

Anne R. Elliott ’84,
Vice President,
Black Student Coalition

BSC reply

To the Editor: -

In response to the “BSC on the Wrong Track?,” —
by J.P. Murdock, J. Moore, and J.C. Carson IV in
last week’s paper, let me stress that in refutation, I do
not apologize-for stepping on anyone’s toes.

What do you mean when you state that the BSC
self-segregates and “descriminates?” And especially,
how. can James.Moore, a black student,.even think

_ such a thing? No BSC member has ever said that our
_. social functions. were for blacks only, but I've been

here since September and have not seen either of the
three gentlemenwho wrote the letter in attendance.

- The-BSC does not close its. doors to anyone, but

neither do we inténd to break down doors to get others
at our social events.

And who gives anyone the right to say that being
black i is “inconsequential” to this campus? For that

. matter, what gives consequence to any other campus
: social group?

You and a lot of other people here are e hung up on as-
similation; The BSC is not. Yes we strive to be a part

-of the Davidson community, but not at the expense of

our own culture. Black culture is a vastly rich.and

- beautiful one, and none of us intefid to deny it. ‘Why
has society always got to be.a melting pot? Is itneces- ._.
. sarily. wrong to.degire one’s own identity? The BSC

believes in:co-existence in an.air;of: equality, but we: |

s+ sr gee egammaarens aman maeante :

one) wong and sige ha te oak
ae cecal aoctaceer :
a _danet Stovall’,

