Davidson’s newest philosopher

Joe. Beatty’ s been around

by J. David Fleming "83

Zoé rolled-an apple on the desk-
top as her father gave her instructions
on feeding the family cat. They
looked’ wonderful together, this
twelve-year-old ted-headed . girl,
named after the Greek word for life,
and her father, the new philosophy
professor at Davidson. In front of his

daughter, ‘Joe Beatty is patient, en-

gaging, and happy. He talks at his
desk, calmly and. honestly, about her,
and about a life dedicated to the ideals
of the liberal education.

Schooled at LaSalle, Johns Hop-
kins, Haverford, and Northwestern,
Mr, Beatty went on to teach at Will-
iams, Duke, and now Davidson. Lib-
eral arts schools have played a major

part in his life. To him, itis a perfectly

respectable thing to do, to become,

“emancipated from: prejudices.” Af-
ter oné masters degree in literature
and writing, Mr. Beatty began to

develop a serious interest in siloso- .
phy, especially Greek, on which he .

began on a second masters. The Viet-
nam War, however, interrupted his
education: as.a conscientious. objec-
tor, he fought against the war rather

ble” and saw “no difficulties in ‘being
ardently against it.”

He returned to finish i in philoso-
phy at Northwestern. Receiving a
Kent Fellowship: to Williams, . he
taught ethical, social, and Greek phil-

_osophy for eight years. Ini 1978, Mr.
Beatty was chosen to be a Fellow at

~ than in it: Mr. Beatty feltthe war was
“politically. and morally unjustifia-"°

“photo by Elizabeth Elkin ‘85

the National Humanities.Center. He
spent: one. year ‘there, . working on
book about the justification-of éthical
principles. After two years teaching
at Duke University, Mr.
joined the expanding Davidson phil-

_osophy: department and arrived this
~ summer, finding the community to be

“unbelievably hospitable. "

Bachelor father .
.. Divorced:and with joint custody
of his two children. Zoé and nine-year
old’ Adam, Mr. Beatty has expe-
rienced both the hectic and rewarding
life of the single parent. Sometimes

after delving into a great philosophi- —

cal problem with students at school,
he must go home to tackle the crucial
problem of “Who threw the towel on

- the bathroom floor and didn’t pick it :
up?” But, Mr. Beatty says, “I’m wis-

er for having kids. There is something
humanizing about it, something a par-
ent can learn if he’d only respect his
child.” a

Joe Beatty, with his beard, curly
light-brown hair, and ‘wire-rimmed
glasses, is still a yoting-looking man,

despite a surprisingly wide range of

learning and teaching experience.
Around his office are various memen-
toes and many books, a collection of
African tribal art, a computer print-
out of the faces of his two children,
and a photograph of Albert Einstein
riding a bicycle. Mr. Beatty still pos-
sesses that youthful passion for un-
answerable questions and the open
eye for ideas and new theories. But
the nervous excitement of many
young professors has softened into a
kind of contented and deep love for
his rdle as father and teacher. Indeed,
being a teacher of philosophy seems

Beatty

as natural for Mr. Beatty as being a fa-
ther.

Society needs philosophers
In a Time magazine article on the
National. Humanities Center about

two years ago, Joe Beatty made the
statement that “Society needed phil-
osophers.” He defended that. state-
ment last week in his office: “Philoso-
phy gives people a chance to under-
stand better some of the notions and
convictions that propel their lives and
to understand also the driving convic-
tions of prejudice that they should
abandon. Philosophy is an attempt to
scrutinize the notions of a society that
make its people who they are.” Ina -
letter to a man who questioned Mr.
Beatty’s claim in the Time article, he
replied, using Plato’s Apology, that
the philosopher is like the horsefly
who consistently .awakens and
arouses a sluggish horse. “The exami-
nation and critique of claims to truth

and rightness is the business of phil-

osophy,” he wrote.
In an increasingly technical era,

Mr. Beatty warns of the harm of

transferring the right to make soci-

' ety’s. decisions. to. technicians and

technocrats. The importance, he
says, is not just on doing something
efficiently and well, but also on being
able “to defend the good of doing it.” -
A man’s philosophy, likewise,
can’t be summed up in the ground-
level beliefs. that many people share
with him. Philosophers are, instead,
interested in the arguments that de-
fend those beliefs. To grasp from
those arguments a knowledge of soci-

‘ ety’s convictions and a freedom from

its prejudices is the ever-presenit con-
cern of Joe Beatty.

Delivery service 7

days/week

_,. Tonight-
Wh ‘Bob Johnson’s

homemade spaghetti

-allu-can-eat $3.99

Beverage 25°

‘\

MOORESVILLE-ON-AVON.
(The Meeting. Place In Mooresville)

Open for Sunday’ lunch -

with choice of five entrées, two
vegetables, salad, and bread. for $5. 25.

- Serving four days the week— i
Thu. ‘through Sat. from 5.30 to 10.00
Sunday from 11. -30.a.m. hte 00 pa m.

page 20/ DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

I -" ie Meeting Place
2595. Broad St. Mooresville, NC .
: ea 1-663-0413

