What’s in his hand?

Bo ob aby y Hussey has 15 players, and 15 wild cards

He s *s the 1981-82 Deion College basketball
team, Let’s take a look at the roll and meet some to
cheat Which one of you is Wilson? Oh. There

are t yof you. Ogi ned vo score
ich, you Kay. Picky-picky. Carroll, pera e

ake pee re word git it. me see alge

players left, ‘these are the ones who emerged. They

tesa in-

pas is cards well and keeps a

: 4 RR
es E
* a) +99
b tens a
z

}, for example) which should
become more thetule than the exception because he’s

~ playing with’ more confidence. Coach Hussey de-:

orem im #8 “heady” and “a hard worker.”

Hold it, I thought that guy « :
: potty say you re Gary McDonald?

es nae a ree :
a with

omething of a holocaust in the Basketball
ecg in which two. coaches and three.

a ‘ve gotsomething ©
Confidence ee ae 3

fenttne Se

: ever. spent he gre
percentage, and showed flashes

Tom Franz
Asa freshmari last year, Tom had one major ques-
tion on his mind; “What's my:

playing like the Tom F
his high school stats (21 ppg, ¢ ;
He’s got a lot’ more confidence, is scoring “more

Jamie Hall
When it comes to basketball, Jamie Hall i is fired

of one particular noun used often in reference to him.’
‘Potential. Well, Jamie’s got no potential. He’s there;.
- “Jamie worked hard during the summer. He worked
out, with weights and he’s been running,” Coach Hus- |
"sey said. In fact, when it comes to running, Jamie had
_never before run three miles without stopping. In pre-
season training he ran as many as six. “Mentally he's is

ahead. But he needs to be a 35-minute man,” con- -

: age) Coach Hussey. ee oe eee nt

ae a : e ‘ one oft ‘the bor eaave oat in ae Con-
otain. ference and offense u i

» Brian Rowan
Brian falls under the “pleasant surprise” category

™~

way . He ll play jard, 3
should ped a key: role onthe team tis Season,
points, and could be as unpleasant a surprise forop-. - ty

- ponents as he was ais for Coach ‘Hussey. ne

as well. He was yied-akined fast year, so he'll bea se-

> nior with a year of eligibility. “Brian plays hard... He
eam?” wants. to play. He’ 8 acomplete, versatile, and intelli-
Now he knows, and he’s been a“pleasant surprise” to. gent ls €

_ Coach Hussey. Tom will play,on the wit

ach hosel Acaee was the

“sic tinker e amecemetna obs

 ketball than he-has been, He’s taking it to the hoop

more.. For us to be good, ‘Cliff is going to have to be a
complete. player.” * Coach. Hussey put it in a nutshell.

‘This year Cliff is going to have to flex his muscles and
‘be more of an inside player, and he’s having a little
trouble coping with the 1 new position. - s outside

_ Shot is just as accurate as. ever, so he'll manage to
- score: polite. ee

ren Wilson

"Kenny, a 1 $0 oe jomore, may have the t best raw tal-
‘the returnees, and last year he was unable to

p it because of his unsure status on thé team.

ye ever, “He’s playing witha lot of confi-
He gives a real ond ae * _ comments

le e bases

sedi:

Shee Rich Wilson 35
Coach Hussey calls j ‘Junior Rich Wilson “ “over-
joked: ” “He is versatile and can doa lot of things.”
He’s ambidextrous and can play a big guard or on the
wing: He works well on the break, which was when
he was at his best last year, so he should be much im-
.proved this year.
