Oriental Art

Copeland House exhibits Marson: Collection.

Copeland House Gallery will hold. an exhibition
and sale of Original Oriental Art, this Saturday from
10am to 5pm. Marson Ltd. is presenting the collection.

Of the approximately 600 pieces, 200 are newly ac-
quired by the company, which arranges exhibitions in
museums, colleges, and eoivereilies throughout the
United States.

The works have’been collected from Japan, China,
India, Tibet, and Thailand. The oldest works date from

the 18" and i9* centuries and include Japapnese wood--

cuts, Indian miniature ‘paintings, and manuscripts by
master artisits such as Hiroshige, Kunivoshi, and Ku-
nisada. The majority of the Chinenses works are paint-
ings, and most of the Japanese are prints.

The modern pieces consisit largely of woodcuts,

etchings, lithographs, serigraphs, ‘and mezzotints by
world — renowned Japanese printmakers including:

Saito (b. 1907), who is considered the father of
modern Japanese printmaking because he was the first
to frosake traditional images for more modern subject
matter: He is very popular in America and Europe.
Since he has not pees anything in years, however,

his work is becoming scarce.

-Azechi (b. 1902), who has been. one. of the more

_ popular artisits of the past years’ shows and is known

for his woodblock prints of bucolic mountain scenes
aiid for his books on the Japanese mountain peoples’
way of life. -

Mori (b. 1898), who is known for primitive, styl-
ized stencil prints of Kabuki actors, ortere celebra-
tions, and peasants at work. - :

Katsada (b. 1914), who began work with the .

1960’s and is known fora unique process of silkscreen-
ing that lends an impressionistic, dreamy texture to his
prints of birds, owls, ‘and. ancient Japanese architec-
ture.

The pieces will be displayed with open portfolios in
an informal atmosphere. Some pieces are quite expen-

.- Sive; others are affordable even on an exiguous collegi-

an budget.

By Brian Butler ’84

Umetaro Azechi’s “Man Holding A Bird.”

aid Record reviews with Jon Glance

Controversy

Produced, arranged, composed
and performed by Prince

One of the brightest stars in the
new music. scene is a young andro-
gyne named Prince. His music’ dis-
plays a thorough knowledge of both

rock and soul, sounding at times like |

some sex-crazed Id from George
Clinton’s darker recesses. In his new-
est album, “Controversy,” Prince
fuses funk and New Wave in a rather
tasty concoction which is sure to stim-
ulate both your mind and ‘your feet.
' “Controversy” is a fitting title for
Prince’s music in general, and for this
‘ album in particular: It often seems
that he is trying to see how much sex-

ual innuendo he can sneak past thé ra- -

dio censors, and with such past hits as
“Soft and Wet,” “I Wanna Be Your

Lover” (which is the’ only Top’40™

pe hil nat meal
Beco we iho th vedi Thee
_ -eome: for”); and’ “Head

| Bre what ‘you m ess ae

branches out from the topic of sex to
include politics and religion.

This emphasis on current events
in modern American society is an im-
portant advance for Prince, and can

be seen inthe New Wave-dipped song _

entitled “Ronnie Talk to Russia,”
which urgently pleads for the Presi-
dent not. to blow up: the world, In
“Sexuality,” he. declares . ‘Mothers

don’t let your children watch televi-:

sion before they know how to read/ Or

“else all they’ll know how to do is cuss

and fight and breed.” When. these
more overt messages are presented in
the tight funk of the dance tunes, they

receive émphasis through'their incon- -

gruity.

‘The music on the album is superb:
funk-rock, similar to that on Prince’s -
lat LP. Aseoas oh are written and

control endows the selections itd a.

cohesiveness. and a steady groove
‘Matched by few. grooves. Prince’s
guitar work: on. this album is very

_ progressive (especially for a “soul” .

‘ act), particularly: the Hendrix-like

S09, Peers Wis "gut xpos ad fis leo
‘ Sand sings all the . Mneniscent of ‘Fred. Frith: or Robert
| be 7 : spakey ey pow ae xp A ne end 6
ee few te tik In this coe sive’ falta. : This complete: arti

advitios for one of the most intriguing
dance bands. around. Prince, unlike

_ Nick Lowe; writes Pop which is any-

thing but-pure,. but his risque funk is :
most ‘assuredly for Now People. Do

your geet a favor, and be sure to check

this album out, whether. you. are an ce
‘aficionado of, soul, rock, or New’ }
yee a rea ee aes ce i

