Friday 18 September 1981

The \¢ Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

‘There is a new school year to enjoy atid a new. ‘Davidsonian. to
enjoy as well. But-to truly savor your Davidsonian experience may
require developing a tasté for it-—a taste for sterner stuff than campus
posters or letters from Mum; far gentler, Movets; ‘than yous eretey
devoirs..

offput by. these twenty-four pages. Rather, simply follow this
‘travelogue to master the tabloid you’re holding.
Self-selection
Any advice about which section to read first is apt to be ignored.
. So no advice here. When you pick up your paper, take a quick look at

the front page index to-locate your very own favorite and open to it.

Film “reviews. World views. News. Features. Sports. Opinions.
Whatnot. It’s all there, so-self-select your preference.
Running track | .

The crucial point is that you not miss:a thing. It sie a week to
create the paper—just for you—so give it more than a cursory : stare.
Be prepared. With pen in hand, check off the index. as you: finish a
section. You’ll be glad you did. Should you be called away mid-page,

you’ll not want to leave any parts ungeed. So keep a running track of

the ground you’ve covered.

The last shall be first
Se the pen and you’ ve missed the pint. The editorials

So if you irdted this first issue with “Fie! a ‘Bookls don’ t. be.

: . ow tc 1 to read the Davidsonian

will tell you important things that news stories can’t. If there’s insight
to. be revealed ora conclusion to be drawn, look for it on the
penultimate page. You noticed that the news summary (in-side of the
front page) and the editorial (in-side of the back page) are in a different
type size and column width than the rest of the paper. There is a
reason.

If you could only read two things f from start to end each week,

they should be these. And make the editorial page your first priority
_ when you read the paper; make it a habit.

Davidsonian Calendar pin-up

Each week, you’ll find something special on the middle two
pages. This week it’s a map of Charlotte; next week a calendar of
events. Whatever it is, you’re welcome to pull it out and pin it On your
bulletin board for convenient reference.

‘Dessert

All the stories read, you re ready for a bit of dessert. Help
yourself, then, to the comics page. You remember Bill “Signals”
Appleton from last year—well, Bill’s back and better than ever with
“Millenium.” Scot Myers (who. apprenticed at Marvel Comics this

summer) makes his entry with “The Satan Quest. ” And more is yet to

come. |
We hope you’ll spend many a happy Friday afternoon with, your
Davidsonian. Let us know how it goes.

“Cetacean fare

John Siman "82.

na visit to Davidson in 1 July a
friend .and I were lucky
enough to be invited out to din-
ner by Mr. Carleton Pritchard, the
- new food services director. Mr. Prit-
chard entertained .us in Richards

house, for the Commons had not yet ©

been completed.
Entering Richards, -we recatied:

the last time we had eaten there — al-
most two. and a half. years’ before,

when we were fréshmen. Richards
was then hardly better than ‘a high’
school cafeteria: the service, the
_ food, and. the décor all indicated the...
' cheapness ‘of. the outside Operation
that ran Davidson Galler’ 8 food: ser-

‘ vice,
‘Richards on that summer eve-
. ning was a different place than We fe- =

- membered. The workers were ‘sharp ~
and responsive. Of course’ we were
eating with their boss, but we still had -
- a feeling that.they maintained a cer-

. tian level of professionalism and po-

liteness. The food was good. Until ~
|. that evening we had ‘suppposed that

ley kitchen could
opy ne and.

and more organized. Without saying
. a word, Mr. Pritchrd had impressed

us.

But Mr. Pritchard did have some :

things to tell us. He spoke about his
previous job, as food services direc-
tor.at the University of Virginia. He

mentioned: Oktoberfests’ and food.

olympics he had organized and con-

vinced us that he. knew what was ap- -
pealing to students. He was capable:

of, we gathered, not only providing
satisfying foad but: also throwing
large-scale parties:

_». After dinner, Mr, Pritchard took |
“Us. through the. ‘Commons, his soon-—

 to-be new home. We had. never

guessed what ‘the ‘interior might be.
and. expected to find something not

“tniike. a cavern or: empty: barn. In-

stead, we saw the work of an architect
who had shown off skills — an inter-

. jor that was multi-levelled yet essen-

tially simple, strikingly large yet

- graceful. Mr. Pritchard showed us

fine. wooden panelling in the formal
dining room, walk-in refrigerators in

_ the storage rooms, and four-foot di-

ameter mixing bowls in the kitchen.,

_ After we thanked Mr. Pritchard
and bade him good-night, we dis-
cussed the shiny panoply he.was pre-

« paring for Davidson College —. new

food, new staff, a new dining hall,
and anew social program. What more

could the-incoming freshmen — and

returning upperclassmen — ask for?
But then we thought: Who will be
able to keep the pae Mr. Pritchard
Sets?

- Pirruines. OF A fumreace, er

“teh roe Ya shen te. is shot and broad. pectorals, and. to the paras sites $C fait td Mail», tht
ae : ih re te rine inane Es tage am. Caudal fir.

Rhee he

Perhaps the Commons will in-
cite the Patterson Court Houses to of- -
fer better meals and social programs,
we thodght. We felt it more likely,
however, that some upperclassmen
trickle into. the Commons. over: the
next few years — enough of a trickle
to shut down a few of the weaker
houses.

Which may not be.a Bad’ thing. If
the Commons can provide a better-
product, we agreed, it ought to take
on the bulk of the dining business.
But Patterson Court has for a long
time been a central part of Davidson
College life and therefore deserves a
second look before it is allowed to de-
cline. Patterson Court can’t match
Mr. Pritchard’s professionalism, but

its houses offer an intimate, almost

family-like atmosphere that is, as far

_as we knew, unique to Davidson.

Where students would choose to.eat

_,,over the long run was not what wor-
ried us. We just hoped our classmates

would maké an active choice, rather
than wake up one morning to find:
their eating houses had met om an’

: Ahabian fate.

John Hic is a senior shabby

_ major and editor id the Davidsonian.

rie

