cone Weekly Newspaper 5 of Davidson College.

"aside, however,

The Voting Rights Act

Pased ‘gvewhilouhisiy by Con-
gress in 1965, the Voting Rights Act
marked what most political analysts
feel was the end of a fifity-five year
struggle for civil rights and.the begin-
ning of a.new and promising era of

black politics in America. This new -

era of black politics has not delivered
on the dreams that were so fervently
felt in 1965. Ecotiomically, blacks
still find themselves on the fringes of

- American society, with a median in-

come only 60 percent the median in-

come of whites and making up a dis-

proportionate one-third of all people
in America classified below the pov-

"erty level. Socially, blacks find them-

selves in a state of floating, voluntary
segregation. Politically, blacks still

-face a lily-white U-S. Senate, ‘a corps
‘of all-white _ lieutenant-governors,

and a collection of governors: devoid
of any black faces:

These political facts noewith-

standiong,progress has been made.
Before 1965, less:than 100 blacks

sheld public: office. ‘Today, neatly ~
* 5000 hold:office: The National Con-  .

ference of Black Mayors has been or-
* ganized, and as pointed out: by: this:

weekend’s scheduled. events on Ca-
pitol Hill, the Congressional Black
_.-Caucus is strong both in numbers and
> in quality of public service. The em-:
_ pirical eviderice leaves no doubt i in
_ anyone’s mind — the single most sig:

nificant factor in bringing about these" ~~
- ‘changes has been ~ Voting Rights
‘Act of 1965. f

Placing. em ir cal evidence

s has’ pointed out

| . (1975); the black experience in U.S. =
history. has led. blacks to feel the-. -
“ melves to be cablests of” rather than

John Eley 3

er, one must note that
the Voting Rights. ‘Act is much more
~ important to blacks than any of these
_ staggering: statisitcs might suggest.
As ‘Milton Mor

political experience, most blatantly
ironic in their associatioin. with the
U.S. politcal system and with the
American Creed. Ironies such as
these have conspired to give blacks

' this notion of being “subject to” rather
than “participants: in” ihe ‘govern-

ment.
The Voting Rights Act i is crucial

_to blacks in that it represents an oasis
_” inthe vast désert of ironies and blatant
injustice that:has marked the history

of blacks in this country. It is the sin-

gle most significant factor in altering
black attitudes concerning their rela-

tionship to the U.S. government.

The Voting Rights Act is crucial

to America in that it was the culmina-
tion of fifty-five yearss of protracted

struggle for civil rights. The: Voting

Rights Act brought success to the civ-
il rights: movement in its third-stage:

nonviolent protest, rather than its yet

to come fourth stage: political vio-

lence. Scholars have noted an amaz-.
ing similarity in the civil rights move-

ments in South Aftica and in’ the
United States. Milton D. Morris inhis

: 1975 work The Politics. pity Black

Le :

America notes that. both movements

began with efforts at codperating with —

the existing government structures. In
the U.S., this was marked by two
stages: lobbying and litigation. Both
these stages were carried out primari-
ly by the NAACP. Stage three devel-
oped in South Africa and in the U.S.

in 1949 and 1957, respectively. This
was the stage of direct nonviolent pro-
test. For South Africa, this ended in

1961 and was replaced by political vi-

olence. Nelson. Mandela, a. civil
rigtits leader of South Africa, sum-

“marized the situation thus: “When
some of us discussed [our previous

tactics] in: “May and June. of 1961, it

could ot be denied that our policy to.
achieve. a noh-racial state had:

achieved nothing.” . "

U.S, has avoided a widespread policy

of politicat Violence. as'a'means of at-:
taining a “recognition — of. inherent
_ fights. The similarities with the South

African movement and the sporadic
outbursts during the late 1960's leave

no doubt that this would have been the’
next stage in the struggle for human’

dignity. There is, however, a differ-

-- ence betwen the U.S.and South Afri--

ca to which we can attribute the fail-
ure of the black movement in Ameri-

ca to follow the pattern of South Afri-
ca and resort to violence. America re-
sponded positively to the civil rights
nonviolent movement; South Africa
did not.

Thus, as the most important ‘and
influential response to this non-vio-
lent movement, the Voting Rights
Act is of great importance ‘both to
blacks and to America in general...
Renewal of a strong Voting Rights’
Act is for blacks a teminder that
Aimerica does respond: to nonviolent

. protest. At.a pivotal time:in the hiso-.

try of black / white relations in this
country, the U.S. Congress ‘withthe
leadership - of President Johnson, :

affirmed that senseless violence is not .

the. ‘way to attain social progress. in

.-» America. To fail to affirm that impor-
_. The -black: ‘niavewinat ‘in the ©

tant lesson, especially when blacks ©
are ominous about ‘the future. pros-

pects-of the New Right movement, is

to open up the threat of having a black
movement conclude that, as in South
Africa, non-violence has brought no
significant progress. Only the most
radical KKK or Neo-Nazi groups
would ‘support policies that- would
lead to an era.of violent confronta-
tion:

A strong Voting Rights Act is,
finally, critical to America as she con-
tinues to champion the principles of
democracy. No group has been more
victimized by.the U.S. practice of de-
mocracy and federalism than has the

_ black race. American racism has long |

stood out as an “American dilemma”

to quote, Myrdal. The Voting Rights

Act. is clearly the most. important

. move that America has made to re- |

verse this pattern of oppression and to .

- extend. democratic. principles. to..all.

her citizens. To fail to reaffirm that
commitment is to reopen the wound .

_ of this American dilemma to the criti-

cal oe of world opinion.

ys Eley is a AS politicl .

science major form Ahoskie, North

Carolina. He. is studying as an ex-

a change student at Howard Palveral,
es year. Pes

page 23 / DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

