Ron Zie wasn’t a big man, but he talked loud
enough and he smiled bright enough that he could
convince you he was a big man if you weren "t paying

attention. In July, when the work was done, usually
‘ late evening, the ctew would mill around the can- :

hery, some straggling back to their camps on foot,

and others driving off into the night. Ron was a fore-.

man and so stayed’ later, and liked to spend the few
minutes standing on the dock, looking over the

moored boats, the littered beach, and the black Kenai

River, which flowed westward.

The lights of’ Sea Catch were. alwive-or on at at tight; |
"great white. spheres that pitched the ‘buildings and -
sheds against the dark sky and drew large, slow in-—

sects from the. Kenai. ‘The river had lights of its’ own
that danced and glittered on the current’s waves. It

was lonely out on the dock then’and it ws here that .

Ron would tell his stories about Dutch Harbor. And
then he'd glare at the black Kenia with something

akin to jealousy or longing.
_“Me-and my. old lady, man,” he’d-begin, ‘anichis

black face smiled wide, and his back arched and his -

arms extended and lie looked as if he meant to em-

brace the whole night above him. “When we had it.

right, we had it right. ” And that might be as far as the
stories got that night, or Ron might go on to tell of his

three-year-old mulatto son that still lived. there, in:

Dutch Harbour, farther west than he could go again.

We got outearly one night and I walked across the

plant in the dusk, still in my yellow rain suit, still wet
and splattered with the blood of the salmon’ we had

cut: I wantéd to'ask' Ron about the tension on the

slime line, ‘the processing floor, about what was go- 2
ing-wrong that he and ‘Lee, his boss, were yelling

above the din of the belt, and the whining
mer. Ron was by the dock, head down and jaw tight,

- ture the night
“Right here,” " crooned Ron; smiling big now, vic- ’s

7 hter ‘in a 1 salmon-laden flatbed

for, over. a: month, had. withheld: a

James ‘Barrat -

drive’ two-hundred. cs down to eas work’all

‘night pitching fish: from a tender, and drive all the. -
-way back here before day crew comes in tomorrow

morning.” He glared at me and I looked stunned and
both of us stood there dumb like we didn’ t believe
what he’d just said. Both of us knew it would mean
overtime, lots of it, that every miserable: hour all

night would be worth nine dollars — time-and-a-hialf. oR

Sea-Catch had been cutting back on overtime; keep-
ing the processing crew’s ranks at a minimum and
working us just long enough to’get the fish processed,
Repaits..and paint could wait. Even maintainance

_ Could wait. Everything except the fish, could wait,
and it was crucial to have salmon to process ‘every-
_ day, even if it meant sending a truck down the coast to.
get it. If you didn’t have fish, you mighty lose your. .

crew to a plant that did. And if you didn’t Have’ a
crew, fish would rot, and the skippers would guide
their salmon-laden boats further up the murky Kenai

until they found ‘mother’ dock and anothér crew. “
There were plenty.

“And where will you be?” I asked, ‘vanquished,
easy, going for the money again and beginning to pic-

torious, gesturing to the dock that reached out into the

" river and early night.

_ The hold of the Gruchenka fel sik feet below her
deck, and empty, most men could walk upr

_ there, all along her forty odd feet from bow to ster
pe lates pest ec ore on was

standing beside one of the plant's two-and-a-half ton ee eae B

GMC flatbead trucks.
“Tact am "he adie oa pa,

anaiiiaes Friday 6 ABVEm eee ates

oe mission ai ‘even: s Atlepiance. “Held ike: @ goo
- pimp,” was the consensus among the few women <

the slime lime. I, who had worked at ve on hand
ment. Until now. sae
The drive down had been a breeze, the —

_ offering me a dim view of the marshes and moun-

tains, and rolling for rests of the southern Kenai Pe-
ninsula. Homer’s Spit, my destination, was a long
spear of rock that jutted almost across‘the Cook Inlet
and then sank down, far under the Seldovia mountain
range. Usding a map of the natural harbour formed by
the Spit, I’d found the Gruchenka and her anxious
crew, and with Mark, one of her members, had set to
work emptying the hold of its 30,000 - ‘pounds by
hand. The rest of the hands busied themsélves with
operating the winch that hoisted the fish from the
tender to my truck by means of a chain mesh net, the
grail, into'which we tossed salmon and ice. :
Sleep was all around, in there with the ice;-and by

— frozen bones. pulled my down and down, wanting to
- be’ still and quiet, mixed in with the-fish, until they

tossed me into the grail and onto the trick and then
back to the slime line to be cut up and boxed and sent
to Japan...

“Coffee?” ‘Lou the: first mate intext i ‘acca-
sionally through the dark mist, poking his head into
the hold and smiling benignly at us, at the fish, at the

~ rain that drizzled.on.our heads, but it didn’t matter be-

cause it was too late and too wet, and so. cold...

_ ,..and then I’m turning the squelch up full on, the
C. B. to stay awake but I can’t and the truck bounces
off the road and back on, and I open the door for cold
air, shaking, grinding in second gear...and suddenly

"the road is full of life-as I careen down.a mountainside
‘and a man is sprinting beside the truck, sprinting at 59

miles per hour, outside my. open door, and there’s
another behind. the. yield sign up. ahead, ghostly
white, pale as the billboard that is the pale een
that pales, lumbering, into the forest. ..

The dock crew. unloaded my truck'in a flurry of
fork-lifts as I stood by, uncomprehending: ‘Several
stood in the morning ‘chill, gazing at the sunrise that
began over-the moored boats, over the beach; over
the glistening, Kenai. The chorus of gulls begani in ar-
chaic unison;

left the: truck and began to walk slowly to the end
of the dock. where Ron Zie was slumped, head ‘in

“hands, taking all Of iti in. He shivered as i got nearer,
looking drawn and thin.

ane eh?” he said, a statement of humorless
fact.

“Yep,” 1 replied, trying to imagine how. dead I
looked:

“All night; man, ” Ron said, ‘incredulobs; ‘asad
shake, smiling now, “I don’ t believe it” He} ‘began

laughing hard, silently, his body shaking and eyes'be-
ginning to fill. He een ee
oput to the river.” Ke

“Dutch Harbor, again?” I asked. fas tal

“Yep, ever since you left.” We strolled’ snare

the plant, its lights dimming as the morning bright-

ened.
“Somrtimes I get it bad”, Ron laughed, “But not
like I used to. ee ey ae

aie

i The whites ‘around Sea’ Catch were dull
now, just fi snd the big winged insects lost in-
terest, and droned slowly back to the river. ae %

James Barrat is. éhinion philosophy mabe and opin
"dons editor of the Davidsonian.’

827
