Friday 18 September 1981

Dé avidson gets VP for De

by Bill Swift ’8

After miore than a year of waiting,
Davidson has a new vice-president of
Development: Dr. Jack W. Powers

-comes to Davidson from Renselzr Pol- .

ytechnic Institute, where he served as
vice-president of external affairs, direc-
tor of development, and a chemistry
professor.

The college has been searching for
someone to fill this position since Po-
wers’s predecessor, Duane Dittman, re-
signed after the 1979-80 school year.

Dr. Powers first contact with Da-

vidson was during his visits to the Col-
lege between 1969:and 1979 while he
was working as a. visiting scientist for
the National Center for Atomic Re-
search Corporation.

-_., In 1979, he went to work for Ren-
seler because he was interested in re-
turning to an academic environment.

\ Last summer he contracted with
Davidson to take the. vice-pfesidency
for development. Until last week he was
still under contract and working for
Renseler.

Dr. Powers does not believe his in-

his. job. He ‘is not an alumnus, but he
said, “T. plan to become acquainted with
as many of the alumni as possible.
Powers thinks he will be most effective
working with corporations, the largest
contributers to the endowment, because
he is an expert on corporate fund-rais-
ing.

This year Powers will.make long
term plans concerning the College’s
1987 Program’s upcoming five-year
fund raising drive. Projects still to be
completed under the 1987 Program-in-

velopment

itial adfbinitigatty with Davidson. will,
hinder his effectiveness in performing .

--clude a new athletics facility and a

mathematics wing for Martin: Science
Building. He said, “According to a pre-
liminary analysis, the Program. will
greatly. exceed its. proposed goals.” He
also is designing a program that will in-
volve students in the development of-
fice so that the transition from students
to alumnus is smoother. .

The College expects Dr. Powers to
codrdinate the areas of corporate and
alumni gifts, special resources, and the
1987 Program, as well as to develop
new sources of revenue.

James “Jimmy” Williams has been appointed as-
sistant director of admissions and assistant dean of stu-
dents. Mr:. Williams will also act as advisor to the
Black Student Coalition (BSC).

_ He replaces George Williams, who served in the
admissions office and was the BSC advisor.

Mr. Williams is looking forward to combining his

by Jeff Holland ’84

admissions work with his couseling duties as the BSC -

advisor:and the assistant dean of students. Having
worked in admissions before, he admitted that it was
“very frustrating to work so hard with the students be-
fore admission and then not hear from them again.”
Both Director of Admissions John Griffith and Dean of
Students Will Terry thought the new assistant dean of
students position would add a needed link between the
admissions department and the dean of students office.
This way, Griffith said, the admissions officer can fol-
low the progress of a student after he or she has been

1y Williams joir

accepted.

Dr,/ Griffith says that he expects Mr. Williams
wills about 80 percent of his time with the Admis-
sion Office and 20 percent with the Dean’s Office, but
his schedule will be flexible.

Both Dr. Griffith and Dean Terry see this appoint-
ment as_filling a gap in student relations. Terry said
that in his role as couselor and advisor to the BSC, Mr
Williams will develop a rapport with minority students
on campus and help them deal. with the “Davidson ex-

‘ perience” from their point of view. Similarly, he says,

Mr. Williams will be able to help the community as a
whole to better understand the situation: of blacks on
campus.

Mr. Williams said he also hopés to play a role in
recruiting. qualified minorities for:admissions. Mr.
Williams served with a program in New York City
called “A Better Chance” which recruited qualified mi-
nority students for a local preparatory school. He sees
these contacts with secondary schools as an advantage

Dean’s office

in finding black-students qualified for admission to Da-
vidson. He pointed out that this is not his “main or fo-
cal duty” as an admissions officer however. Mr. Grif-
fith said, “seeking out qualified minorities is the role of
the admissions office as a whole. He [Williams] was
hiréd because he is qualified for the job and we feel he
can add to the quality of the admissions staff.”

As to whether his appointment is a commitment
by the College.to hire more minorities, Mr. Williams
said; “Iam encouraged by it: I haven’t been at David-
son long enough to see how the community will react
but.I feel that Davidson College has a serious commit-
ment to the hiring of minorities.”

* Williams is a graduate of Middlebury College in
Vermont with a B.A. in American -History. He has
worked several other jobs in the. areas of admissions
and student counseling, including three years serving
as an Assistant Director of Admissions at Brown Uni-
versity in Rhode Island.

SGA beginning intra-campus mail system

the room number.

[2] Toséndlarge ular postal services.

ions of the student body, however, and

by John H. Marks ‘85.

In an effort to provide a more effi-.

cient means of delivering letters on
campus, the SGA is sponsoring an
intra-campus mail service to begin op-
eration this fall.

The service will be open to. all
school personnel, including staff, facul-
ty, administration, and students.

The rules in using the system are
simple.’ {1}. Place all-mail in an en-
velope with’an address which includes
the name of the student, the dori, and

bundles, separate the letters and group
them into piles which will go to individ-
ual dorms. [3] Deposit mail on’ the

first floor. of the Chambers building, ad-.

jacent to the admissions office.
Students will sort the mail and dis-
tribute it to the resident advisors in each
hall. These advisors ‘will make the final
delivery.
SGA vice-president Chip Hurley,
who: heads up the’ operation, “expects
off-campus students ‘will more than

Hike ty receive sayy me through shy reg-

After knocking the idea around for
quite a while, the SGA will finally app-
ly. the mail service this fall. Primarily

due to the efforts.of vice-president Hur- .

ley and senator. Tracy Thompson, the

- plan began to take form. last Spring:
Union director C. Shaw Smith: and -

housing director Bill Bolding codperat-
ed as well. According to SGA president
Chip Legerton; the system will allow

“cheaper, quicker and more efficient.

communication.” Vice-president Hur-
ley expressed a desire to. know the opin-

welcomes any suggestions which would
improve the system.

The students. who will sort and de-
liver the mail have not yet been select-
éd. However, admissions director Dr.
John Griffith and Bill Bolding will dis-
cuss utilizing the services of the work-
study students in implementing the pro-
gram. Dr. Griffith maintained that cer-
tain guidelines for the job must beset
before consideration; but was sure the
administration ‘would codperate with
the proposal.

Welcome freshmen, upperclassmen )

/e are moving

sh dantese Gants 6 Vinen:s mum nete
; ; ome Tee B COUNI ON ee ‘3

£ ornelius Hairstyling
_. will open September.30
at Lake Norman Village,
19400: Statesville Rd.

: left, just mit Hardees
Cometiug Hairstyling
“PO'box 606 *

~~Cornelius, NC 28031

BGP LE NO Vo RMT IR OE ATE, AB A I I HS RR AE lw HE

a ae et Dt ws
