January 23, 1981—The Davidsonian—7

Cat swimmers capture three victories in S.C. meets

By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

Davidson swimmers
swamped all opponents as they
won, three dual meets in
Charleston over the weekend.

Friday, the Wildcats defeated
College of Charleston 66-45 and
S.C. State 67-32. The next day
the team travelled to Southern
Conference rival The Citadel
where it pulled off a surprising
73-39 victory.

In the first meet, Davidson
overpowered Charleston, taking

nine firsts in thirteen events.
Craig Fingers stood out indivi-
dually with firsts in the 200
meter free and the 100 fly, and a
first on the medley team. Mike
Schremmer, Craig Allen, War-
ren Beck, John Edwards, and
Tony Smith each captured first-
place finishes. In one meter
diving, Frank Bright outclassed
all opponents to capture first
with 238.10 points.

In the same meet Davidson
competed against S.C. State
and came out with ten firsts in

twelve events, winning every-
thing but the 50 free and 400
free relay. Davidson winners
were the same as those against
Charleston with the addition of
Rick Williams, who took first in
the 400 free.

Sunday, the team swam an
extremely good meet to over-
whelm the strong Citadel squad
73-39. Coach Pat Miller com-
mented that ‘‘The Citadel meet
was probably one of the best
meets we've ever had so early in
the season. Our times were all

good. Everybody gave 100 per-
cent in effort, even though a lot
of people had been down with
the flu.

* Davidson swimmers took
nine of thirteen firsts, including
both team relays. Schremmer
had individual firsts in the 200
yard free and the 500 yard free,
and a first on the 400 free relay
team. Finger also had two
individual firsts and a medley
relay first. Freshman Bill Crone
took first in the 1000 free and
the 400 free relay. Sophomore

John Edwards took firsts in the
200 back and the medley relay.

Craig Allen, who has been out
with pneumonia this week,
swam on both winning relay
teams. Frank Bright took first

in optional one-meter diving
and @ second in required one-

meter diving.

Coach Miller said, ‘‘We swam
well all weekend. We’re getting
ready for the season and I’m
really pleased with our progress

_ so far.”’

Looking back at it, our friend appears rather shortsighted. In 1864, The Travelers had just started
doing business. He was concerned about the uncertain world situation and decided to stick with a job
with a future. So he turned down our offer and went on selling blacksmith supplies. The rest is history.

Our point is, in the hundred-plus years we’ve been doing business, The Travelers never lost
faith in the future. Through good times and bad, we've achieved our growth by daring to innovate. In
1864, we were the first company to insure against accidents. In 1919, we were the first to offer aircraft
liability insurance. In 1979, we were the first company to install the Distributed Claims Processing
Computer — the fastest way there is to pay claims. We could go on, but you get the point.

Today, The Travelers is a Fortune 500 company with wide- -ranging career opportunities in
accounting, sales, engineering, underwriting, data processing: finance. We're taking the lead to make sure
no man or woman at The Travelers is shortchanged when it comes to having an equal opportunity to succeed.

*Our Representative will be visiting your campus on January a. Your
Placement Director has additional information. ;

At The Travelers, we’re ready to meet the future, starting yesterday.
The Travelers Insurance Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, Ct. 06115
An equal opportunity ¢ mplover M/F

THE TRAVELERS

