t

page 15

-DAVIDSONIAN —

The e Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

_ Presuming honor -

When new freshmen arrive at Davidson: they are smothered with
information: about the Honor Code, Usually, they feel proud to be at a
school where. they can leave their doors’ unlocked and their books
unguarded. They follow the Honor ‘Code and believe everyone else does
too. Davidson becomes for them a utopia where no lying, cheating, or
stealing takes place.

As they grow older, they become a little nonchalant. Ask an
upperclassman about. what sort of crime goes on in Davidson and he’ll
probably mention that a few bicycles are stolen now and again. And then
he’ll quickly add that townies — not students — are the likely thieves.

When one adheres to the Honor Code and never witnesses any
violations, as is true for almost all students, he draws this inference: no
student ever violates the Honor Code.

This, unfortunately, is not true. Two students, acting separately, both
in responsible positions, stole over $3000 from a campus organization over
the past year and a half.

Their cases may be flukes — or wr they may’be tips of the iceburg. In
either case, the point is that honor code violations — gross honor code
violations — do occur. Trusted students do not always resist temptation.

The proper response to this discovery is to minimize the temptation
students face.

Students who control large amounts of money — the eating house

treasurers, the fraternity comptrollers, the SGA chancellor, aiid ‘the
business managers of other organizations — should be audited on a regular
basis. Right now only a minimal amount of — if any — scrutiny is eed
to these students. ee:

We suggest that the office of student auditor be created. The aiiditor

could be either a student who serves on a volunteer basis, like the student

solicitors and defense. advisors, or he could be a first — year alumnus. who,

like the assistant to the president, holds a full — time, salaried position with

the College for one year.

Of course the student auditor would have nothing like the expertise of
a CPA, but he would be performing a duty that is now completely
neglected. An.amateur auditor is better than no auditor at all. And one
expects that a student auditor could rely on the College comptroller, ‘and
business manager for assistance.

However. we complete the details of the auditor’s job, we. ‘must
recognize that the job must be performed if we are to ensure the 'p o
functioning of the honor system. We‘can'assume that most $
honorable, but» we can never assume that all students are perfectly
honorable.

Simple obedience to the honor sehen is not always sufficient to
uphold it. We must actively insert checks into the system whiten, the
system appears weak.

Public scrutiny

Breaking through the Honor Code’s veil of secrecy

I spent spring term away from
Davidson, but still tried to keep up
with campus news.

I was concerned when I heard
about two controversial Code of Re-
sponsibility cases, one in which a stu-
dent seemed to have been punished
too severely, the other in which a stu-
dent seemed to have gotten off light-
ly.

I wished that somehow I could
get a forst-hand look at the honor sys-
tem in action, to see how fairly the
system actually worked.

I wished too hard..

.__ A week after returning to David-
son, I discovered that a student had
been routinely taking money from a
campus organization. Upon my con-
fronting him, he returned the money
— upwards of $800 — but main-
tained that he had not violated the Ho-
nor Code. Instead, he told the Dean of
Students that he had merely “misused
the money,” did not want an Honor
Council hearing, and was willing to

John Siman

tance of the sanction and repayment
of the money certainly indicated his
implicit confession. I heard the words
“no precedent” several times during
the settlement of this case.

A month after my return, I: disco-
vered that a second student had stolen
money from a campus organization.:
This student was a more ingenious
thief than his counterpart, for his take
— nearly $2500 — had gone unde-

‘tected for many months. This case

was complicated by the student’s hav-
ing graduated a few weeks before the
evidence was gathered against him.

_ Ultimately the student agreed to:
repay the full amount stolen, but he
was not punished. The Dean did not

take part in arseniniiee this settle-

ment.

The case was not brought before
the Honor Council, for there i is.no ea-
sy way to make the Honor Code apply

proaching the legal meticulousness .

one would demand from, for exam-

_ ple, a magistrate.

_Let.me be quick to say, howev-

er, that the fuzziness of procedure

was not clearly the Dean’s fault. I had
the impression that the honor system
itself seemed so vague in spots as to
provide no guidance for the Dean.

Which brings me back to the two

Code of Responsiblilty cases of last
spring: in both cases there. was no
clear procedure for determing punish-
ments for the students. And, not sur-
prisingly, people in the community

questioned the fairness of both pun- .
- ‘ishments.

Now one approach to eliminat-
ing questionable punishments is toin-
scribe mandatory sentences for all
Honor Code and Code of Responsib- :
lity violations onto stone tablets. Al-
low the Dean and the Honor Council

~ no discretion: in: determing puinish-

ments. Treat. all students exactly

alike. Disregard all exceptional

theirs.

A second approach is to allow
the’system to operate more or less as it
does now-but to make the decisions of
the Dean and Honor Council part of
the public record. Without comprom-
ising the privacy of accused students.
The Dean and Council can announce
the number of cases heard each term,
the nature of the cases, the number of
convictions, and the severity of the
punishments.

This information will allow the
community to scrutinize the perfor-
mance’ of the Dean and the Council, |
and thereby give them a chance to
question seemingly unfair convic-
tions and sentences. Furthermore, the
Dean and Council, aware that their

decisions were no longer shrouded in
secrecy, would be more sensitive to

how the community would regard any
inconsistencies in their verdicts,

~ The idea here is simple: when _
one has. to justify his decisions public-
ly, he often is more judicious than he

accept whatever punishment the Dean to_an_ alumnus. Again I heard the cases. ce would have been otherwise.
deemed fair. Quite.a statement... __ words “no precedent” while the case _ “The problem with this appo-- Tam submitting this proposal to
The Dean decided upon a two-. was beingsettled, ~ » foach is that sooner or later students the Student Conduct Council. I. hope.
* term suspension; the normal sanction Reflecting on. these two cases, x "guilty of felatively. minor infractions _ that the Davidsonian can begin print-
for Honor Code violations. The stu- —. concluded. ‘that the Dean had acted will be caughtin'the middle. punished —_ing the results’ of Honor Code and
_ dent, however, never explicitly con- _ with goc J intentions, but that he did too ‘harshly by a system that was not ~ Code of Responsibility cases " -
fessed his guilt, ae his acorn, not handle the: cases with paving ap- Saba ery to. ‘accomodate cases like end of this term. \

PRE een od ; ‘ ee el j ‘

