fit kind of Homecoming

Alumnus J ason, Thompson returns

by Mark Murrey ‘83 .

It has taken a few. years and many miles, but Ja-
son Thompson is back in the Davidson classroom.
This time, however, he is on the other side of the
desk.

As the latest addition to the Davidson Econom-
ics Department, Professor Thompson recalls, “I had a
dream when I was at Davidson ‘that TI would come
back to take Bobby Avinger’s or Randy Kincaid’s
place when one of them fetired.”. With Kincaid on
leave of absense and Avinger persuing other career

interests, these positions became available long be-

fore the young Thompsoh expected.

18.

Treating them to dineer out is always | nice... but if it's
uguelly “dinner in a poper bog” moybe ‘you should be.
_ treating them a little better. if dinner out is no longer o |
treat at your house... it's timeforatreatatourhouse.
At The Meeting Place we've cooked up o whole new
menu full of delicious dishes, ond at the same time we've ff.
| returned to the old-fashioned abd har will mane: eating:
out a welcome change again. ey = @
> Your fanolty can enjoy ‘everything from boked chicken | @
, _ to.0n gkAmerican steak: dinner... complete with o-tree
soled, assortment of vegetobles.. - ond kid-sized portions ot ‘as

By chance, while passing through early lust
year, he found that the Economics Department was
interviewing to fill the vacted positions. After send-
ing a resumé and having a few interviews, he is teach-
ing introductory ecomonics and a seminar in urban
economics.

From an alumnus’s perspective he has found
that, “on the first day of class, I saw that things had
not changed much; students attitudes toward their

work are very much the same.” He notes, however, a .

broader range of reaction in the classroom as a result
of co-education.

Recalling some of his favorite Davidson expe-
riences, Thompsn spoke fondly of his junior year in

_ - SUMPTUOUS
_GOURMET FOOD

. PLEASANTLY

’ SERVED IN EASY
SURROUNDINGS _

~ Visit The Meeting Ptese soon. You'll ike-our relaxed a
. we. Jus? ait back and let us serve you.
© Wales laa halle cautieg easltre. Piece dea bee page

ee en Come see us toon. ct

DAVIDSONIAN./ Friday 23.October 1981

lot of work,” he confides, “but I’m enjoying it.”

Marburg, Germany and winter term senior year in
Spain. Those experiences increased his knowledge
and interest in foreign languages and international
economic studies.

At the University of Texas Thompson persued a
masters degree in Latin American Studies concentrat-
ing on international business and economic develop-
ment. He then participated in a thee month marketing
study in Brazil. Afterwards, Thompson received a
Masters degree in Economic Development and Eco-
nomic HIstory at the University of Massachusetts at
Amherst where he is presently writing his doctoral
dissertation.

After being in school for so long, the young
economist wanted some non-academic experience. “I
needed to get out and test the classroom theories,” he
said. Remaining in the East, Thompson received a
position in the Boston Redevelopment Authority
where he has worked for the past three and a half
years. “The office was in City Hall, at the heart of
Boston and the work was exciting and dynamic.”
Such projects as Urban Revitalization, hotel and of-
fice tower developments, and residential develop-
ments were the orders of the day.

Now back in academic life, Professor Thomp-
son is glad to see the students’ new interest in eco-
nomics. ‘When I was in school they talked of fine
tuning the economy and not. many were interested in
economic analysis,” but now he explains that eco-
nomic instability makes it difficult to find a consen-
sus on policy. “That’s what makes it interesting.”

But.he seems to take it all pretty coolly. As he
sits reading on the. Union patio his necktie is all that
reveals whether he is to lecture or be lectured. “It’s a

