(Re ee —

Film reviews with Nick Graham

HeavenCan Wait;
Blaise Pascal

HIS WEEK-END IS HOMECOM-
' ing ’81 and for the connois
seur of socially-committed

cinema that classic feature The Dis-
creet Charm of the Bourgeoisie will

be playing at various locations cam-

pus-wide between Friday evening
and Sunday afternoon.

Pop Films’ contribution to the
proceedings is the highly successful
Julie Christie / Warren Beatty fea-
ture of a few years ago Heaven Can
Wait, in the 900 Room at the ungod-
ly hour of 1.30 Am on Saturday
morning.

Apart from adding weight to
one of the basic tenets of my own
theology — that it is mercifully dif-
ficult for a football-player to enter
the kingdom of heaven — the film

provides considerable comic enter- _

tainment in the persons of Christie
and Beatty, attempting, with a fair
degree of success, to recreate their
collaborations in “Shampoo” and
“MacCabe and M™ Miller” during
the early "Seventies. In this film
Beatty plays Joe Pendleton, a foot-
baller who is plucked away from the
game he loves too early and forcibly
reincarnated as a captain of industry.
In. the real world of course such
changes only come about after many
years of selling vacuum cleaners
door-to-door, but here the transfor-
mation is achieved by divine fiat, as
reprsented by Pendleton’s guardian
angel, James Mason, who turns in a
delightfully dithery performance.
Christie appears on the scene as an
English environmentalist (of all
things) and the plot for the remainder
of the movie lurches between Beat-
ty’s problems with his newly ac-
quired unfaithful wife (Dyan Car-
ron) and his adulterous-homicidal

secretary, and the rather more unsat-
isfactory matter of his attempts to re-
live his past life as a footballer. The
whole thing amounts to. a pleasant
comedy. making up in performance
for what it lacks in situational belly-
laughs and is probably the most sat-
isfactory of Hollywood’s recent at-
tempts to recreate the romantic-
comedy classics of the ’40’s. (The
film is in fact a wholesale remake of
a feature from that period. Football-
hearties will doubtless find the stam-
ina required to see it in the early
hours of the morning.

n Wednesday, Bob Tro-
O bich’s Fine Films Commit-

tee continue their season
-with Roberto Rossellini’s 1972 fea-
ture, “Blaise Pascal,” evidently an
extremely rare opportunity to see
this recondite film, as nobody out-
side the ivory towers of the Humani-
ties programme seems to know any-
thing about it. However, research
conducted under great difficulties by
the Davidsonian’s semi-resident ci-
néfile has produced these tentative
facts. The film is apparently a histor-
ically accurate biopic which man-
ages to reconcile the drama (such as
it was) of the French thinker’s life
with the more abstract matter of his
relentless search for The Truth. The
danger here of course is that Rossel-
lini may succumb to the temptation
of tediously mundane documentary,
but the film is apparently compul-
sively watchable not least for the fine
colour photography throughout.
Rossellini first made his name in the
Italian cinema immediately after the
Second War with the excellent

ee

a

“Rome, Open City,” a film dealing
with the last days of the Fascist re-
gime, which was most notable for its
use of actual partizans in the action
sequences. Although “Blaise Pas-
cal” may not aspire to such heights of
political involvement or military
realism, it should be recommended

viewing for all of you who still can-
not distinguish the programming-
language from the man who proved
that Christianity was a safe bet even
for gambling men. Whether 4 will
justify the Humanities programme's
encroachment upon Fine Films how-
ever is anybody’s guess.

‘been insinuating that I have been

writing this column without
bothering to see some of the films
first. Not only is this to misunder-
stand the nature of film-criticism it is
also completely untrue. The truth of
the matter is, of course, that I never
see any of the films before writing
about them. To see a film before re-
viewing it merely prejudices me and
I am sure that the readers of the Da-
vidsonian would rather tolerate my
scintillating speculations as to the
nature of a feature than be regaled
with the odious inconsequentialities
of transatlantic bigotry. For the few

| t seems that some people have

remaining sceptics still unconvinced
by this argument I wish to point out
once and for all that if | write these
reviews it is for three reasons only:

1.) To get myself talked about
behind my back.

2.) To infuriate the editorial
staff of the Davidsonian.

3.) To make a name for my-
self, a thing which is absolute-
ly indispensable if one is to
succeed in the world of pollit-
ics, or with women.

Walker College of Business

Appalachian State University

_A representative of the Walker College of Business will be on campus Monday 2 November to .
discuss graduate study opportunities, Programs include an MBA and specialized: masters
programs in accounting, economics, and business education. All programs are fully accreditied by
the AACSB. Financial aid is available for qualified students.

For more information contact the Careers Office in the basement of the Union.

DAVIDSONIAN/ Friday 23'Octobet 1984

9
