6—The Davidsonian—January 16, 1981

Features

Film Review

Nick Graham

After beginning their 1981 program with Peter Brooke’s
1966 version of Marat/Sade, the Fine Films Committee
continues its excellent mixture of new and old celluloid
classics with Tristana, a film by. Spanish director Luis
Buneul, whose works should already be familiar to
Davidson filmgoers. Buneul’s Obscure Object of Desire
was shown here last term. Tristana, however, is more in
the vein of Daughter of Viridiana than anything else.

Fernando Rey stars as another: version of the classic
Bunuel character, a man who rejects all moral values.
Rey’s amorality leads him to seduce Tristana, his
supposed daughter by an earlier mistress. This tender,
innocent creature is rapidly transformed into a pitiless
monster whe watches over the eventual destruction of Rey
without a twitch of emotion. Catherine Deneuve plays the
eminently corruptible young flesh and ably continues her
association with Bunuel, which began so auspiciously with
her portrayal of the housewife/prostitue in Belle de Jour,
the director’s 1966 comeback feature.

Anarchy, anti-clericalism and the usual Bunuel obses-
sions raise their ugly heas in a devastatingly charming
fashion, but the foot-fetishists among you will probably be
pining—and quite rightly too—for Virdiana. Tristana is a
good feature, which deserves to be seen by more than just
convince fans or those won over by Obscure Object;
however, the real question is whether Tristana should be
in this term’s schedule at all. Junior Joni Seehorn and her
Fine Films Committee are evidently sensitive to the
suggestions of their audience, but with Obscure Object
already shown and the superlative Discreet Charm of the
Bourgeosie coming later this term there is strong cause for
showing the works of modern European directors besides
Bunuel. There are, arguably, those who deserve to be seen
more often: Godard, Truffuat and Bertolucci, who have
not been so much as mentioned this year.

If Spanish film is to be a continual fetish, then one could
profitably show Spirit of the Beehive or even The Poachers
without alienating too great a portion of the audi-
ence.

The list of suggestion for the Fine Films could be (and
probably has been) endless, but if the press in this
community has any power whatsoever then I should like
to register a lone vote in favor of the German cinema.

The Committee could reasonably pay some attention to
the work of Wim Wenders, the finest director currently
working in that country. His obsession with rock music
and the American colonization of the European sub-con-
scious ought to make him a popular man in the United
States. His 1976 feature Kings of the Road (Im Lauf der
Zeit) is quite simply one of the most profound and moving
films I’ve seen.

“It may be the best movie
of its kind ever made.

For undiluted pleasure and excitement, it is, 1 think,

the American movie of the year...a new classic.”

From deep space...

A Robert.H. Solo Production of A Philip Kaufman Film

“Invasion of. the Body Snatchers”
Donald Sutherland - Brooke Adams - Leonard Nimoy -

Jeff Goldblum « Veronica Cartwright - Screenplay by W.D. Richter, -

Based on the novel “The Body Snatchers” by Jack Finney
Produced by Robert H. Solo + Directed by Philip Kaufman
DIGESTED)” SRS) Sore «HU re NRMtOd Artists,

Love Auditorium

- Friday night at 8 pm. and 10:30 p.m.

$7.50 or Season’s Pass

Pornography exposed

By JEFF MANN
Staff Correspondent .
Pornography will come out of

the plain brown wrapper and
in the 900 Room next Tues-
day at 7 when California poet

. Susan Lurie: presents a talk

entitled ‘‘Pornography and the
Myth of Women.”

Lurie is director of the Berk-
eley Women Writers workshop
at the University of California
at Berkeley and is editor-pub-
lisher of Woman See’d, a maga-
zine featuring women’s writing.
She has contributed to several
books and poetry collections,
including the controversial
Take Back the Night:Women
on Pornography. The New York
Times Book Review described
this book as ‘‘a collection of
analyses, ‘critiques,’ manifest-
os, and speeches, all by prom-
inent feminists, all decrying the
increase of violence in porn-
ography during the last ten
years.”’ Publisher’s Weekly cal-

led it a ‘‘cry of rage and pain, a
call to action, a search for
solutions.”

Lurie’s visit, sponsored by
the Davidson Women’s Center,
will continue with three days of
poetry readings and workshops.
On Wednesday at 12:30 she will
speak on ‘“‘Women and Litera-
ture” at an open luncheon in the
900 Room. She will also conduct
a workshop later that day from
2 to 4 with Professor Tony
Abbott’s creative writing class
in Chambers 301.

Linda Orr from Duke Uni-
versity will join Lurie on Thurs-
day at 4:30 in the 900 Room for
a poetry reading followed by a
sign-up dinner.

Women’s Center spokeman
Aurie Hall emphasized that all
events are open to the entire
student body. She hopes that
nationally known speakers like
Lurie whose subject is of inter-
est to all students will con-
tribute to a ‘growing awareness
of women’s issues’”’ on campus.

‘Rooms’ in the Gallery

Rooms—the word evokes images ranging from an elegantly
austere dining area to your own dorm “habitat.’”’ These are two

of the rooms in the new art show in Chambers Gallery. Artists
Clara Couch, Paul Harcharik, Mary Mintich, and Richard

stenhouse were asked to create a room of specified dimensions.
You can view—and enter—their works 10-5 daily. ‘

PAT PLANNED PARENTHOOD
BEING SEXUAL MEANS
BEING RESPONSIBLE

“1 see most of the women who
come to Planned Parenthood. | like
to take the time to talk with

about your medical and emo

needs. Being responsible takes time
Take some time with us at Planned
Parenthood.”

Megan McKewan,
Nurse Practitioner
Low Cost and Confidential
Birth Control
Pregnancy Testing
Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Abortion Services

Information on birth control, V.D., pre-
natal care and adoption at no cost.

FOR INFORMATION
OR APPOINTMENT
CALL 377-0841
MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 P.M.

Planned Parenthood
951 S. Independence at McDowell
Charlotte, N.C. 28202

“COME TO
PLANNED PARENTHOOD
BEFORE”

(Pat Donley)
