The visitors.

Seven international students have one-year
scholarships to Davidson College, USA

Each year Pavidson gives.a nlihther of one year
scholarships fo International students. to study here.
The seven international students on campus this year

_ talked about their reactions to Davide so far.

__ Ajay Sukhdai -
~ Ajay Sukhdial, 21, who studied at S' Stephen’s
College, an English. college in Delhi, already has a
degree in general science. He sees his year here as a
. time to help him decide about the future and might
stay on in the U.S. to do some graduate work.

“The people here are the best thing — I think that .
As. the major stabalizing factor for foreigners when

they come.” Ajay has probably experienced the big-
gest culture difference of any of the internationals but

he was well prepared for it. “You can read about it -
and see it on the television; you know, but I just want-

ed to come and experience it for myself. It’s really
very much as I’d expected.”

John Hackett
John Hackett, 18, recently left High School: in
Dublin. “It would have been easy to go to University

in Dublin, get a degree and a job, and before you ©

know it you’re married and stay in Dublin all your
life. I’m taking different subjects here to see what I
like — I don’t know whether I want to be a neurosur-
geon or the next Pope.”

John says he feels “very Irish” here. ‘ When I see
something ori the TV about Ireland I get this partiotic
surge. We don’t have the sort of salad bow! culture
Americans have, we’re more of a family. I feel patri-
otic and proud of it too. I have a really rich and old
culture behind me, and Americans can identify with
that as many have Irish ancestors.”

John preceded. to unwrap a gift from his best
friend in Ireland which turned out to be a carved celtic

harp.

Helen Thorpe
Helen Thorpe, 20, is an English Major at Reading
University. She came here because of the JYA stu-
dents she had met at Reading.

' “Tt was much easier to adjust to Davidson than it
was to Reading,” she said. “It’s a lot smaller -and
more intimate, almost cozy by comparison. There’s
certainly a more relaxed relationship between profes-
sor and student. In England the work is self-motivat:
ed, you set your own work and go to lectures if you
want to: here there’s more classroom atmosphere and
that gives a much greater security.”

“T don’t like getting up at nine though, I don’ t
have classes before eleven back home!”

Sofia Moreno _
“Sofia Moreno, 19, from the University of Mad-
rid, is a political science major. She has already tra-
velled extensively throughout Europe and in Africa.

She stated her feelings on the U.S.: “Well, people are.

very tolerant here, they-accept you can behave very
differently. It gives you freedom to be yourself but
the result is that people are so accustomed to accept
anything they lose curiosity and aren’t ‘surprised by

anything; they don’t try to go deeper and understand _.

why you are like that.”

“The system of ‘study has good and bad points.
The pressure means you learn a lot, but on the other
hand ‘you ‘never go’very deep or get to’know or even

: ‘Ajay Sukhdai

like Scmushliig 9 very well. You get an overview. I
think everything is too well organized for freshmen
and almost paternalistic. It prevents them from stand-
ing on their own two feet and becoming mature.

“J also find everyone so busy. You can’t take time
to do things slowly and appreciate them — little
things like reading a book or talking with a friend.”

Suzi Kord
Suzi Kord, 21, has been studying English and
German at the University of Marburg and hopes to
work as a translator of English, French and Swedish.
She finds it mugh friendlier at ,Davidson than at
such a big university as Marburg. “We had seventy

people in a:class and just read French, /so it’s a big

chnge studying French here!

“The first thing that occured to me was the differ-
ence in building houses; they have so much room here
that the houses all have space in between. The eating
habits are pretty strange — there’s no bread and the
one cold meal a day is lunch. In Germany it’s the op-
posite; we eat a big meal in the middle of the day and
very little dinner. If I eat a lot at night it makes me feel
ill so I’m not going to adjust to that! There’s no indi-

viduality in the food, that’s what I miss most. I mean,
we éat hamburgers but not ail the time.” .

Véronique Raynal & Didier Chenneveau

Véronique Raynal, 22, and Didier Chenneveau,
21, are both from the University of Montpellier.

Véronique majored i in English and is doing a mas-

ters in teaching French in.the U.S. She said she was

very surprised by the Honor Code when she got here

— “It’s a very, strange idea fora French person, I
can’t imagine it. Most French people try to do exactly
the opposite — try to do everything that is forbidden,
and everybody understands that. —

__ “People study so much here; but ina way the
study is like we do in high school; I mean it’s all struc-
tured. In France we have to work for ourselves ang be
independent and more self-motivated,

“We tend to’have a. group of friends to do things

with and we. are alway} ays | together but here it doesn’ t.

seem to be: that wa ay... er thing that’s different i 18,
that we have funevery night of the week and work on

‘the weekends. But here it’s the opposite, way around.
like going to parties, ibaa I find them a bit:puri, bis

tanical.”

Didier is iebeaneey: major: and is- interested i in >

working with juvenille delinquents. He spent a year
in-a high school in California two years ago and is

_ very used to the culture.

“I’m hooked,” he said. “I really enjoy the Amer-
ican way of life. I wish I could live and work here. I
like the smallness of Davidson because it’s the first
time I’ve lived in a place like this, it’s really friendly.
People are ’so open-minded; their attitude to life is so
positive instead of being pessimistic like we often are
in Europe. They know what they want to do and enjoy
it.”

“I’m keen on doing anything different from what
I’ve experienced. I love, American football, fraterni-
ties; things we don’t have in. France, they’re really
American. Time is going too fast though. Sometimes
I feel I don’t take ‘a chance on all the Opportunities

~ given me — I really want to meet new people.”

Most of the Internationals aré taking at least one

course that is specifically American — either history,

“politics or literature. As Sofia says, “I definitely feel

.. “at a disadvantage because they refer to what hap-
_ pened x years ago and everybody just knows. about it.

But I really feel it’s good for me.’

Helen said she was enjoying her literature course
because she hadn’t had much American literature be-
fore. “It’s a minority interest back home, but here it

‘ has so much context.”

What do they think about the isolation of David-
son? “Well,” said John, “if you’re left to sit around
and think about it too long this place could drive you
crazy. That’s why I play tennis. You need something
really moronic like bashing a ball for three hours a
day to keep your sane. There are lots of things to do
here you just have to get involved. If you go not of
your mind it’s your own fault!”

Suzi agreed, “I’m just trying to get out of David-
son as often as possible.” They all want to travel in
the vacations as much as possible “but mostly to Cali-
fornia — every European’s dream.”

They all. agreed that it is the people. who’ ve made

. them feel at home.. “It’s very easy to ; say hello and
‘smile at somebody,” said Helen ‘and it becomes in-

stinctive it’s conductive to an open’ atmosphere. I
don’t know if it’s cause or effect.”

Ajay concluded “T really feel I’ ve made not simp-
ly acquaintances but friends.”

By Ant Goode.

Suzi Kord

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 6 November 1981 — | 9
