January 16, 1981—The Davidsonian—7

Looking for an unusual summer?
Consider the Cambridge program

By JEAN SORACCO
Back Page Editor -

The appealing combination of travel
and study is offered in a variety of forms
at Davidson. One is the six-week
summer program in England, which has
been newly revised for 1981. Its move
from Oxford to Cambridge University
will make it possible for 30 students to
participate, whereas last year’s limit was
20.

The program, entitled ‘‘The Age of
Revolation and Romanticism in English
History and Literature, 1760-1832,”’
carries one English and one history
credit, both given on a pass-fail basis.

ite the change in location, the
acade: format will remain the same.
Students will attend twenty-four lec-
tures on the history, literature and
architecture of the Romantic period, plus
two weekly tutorial sessions. The lec-
turers will be British dons, Fellows of
the various colleges that form Cam-
bridge University.

“The tutorials provided a good altern-
ative learning process which I enjoyed,”
1980 Oxford program participant Hope
McCarn said. ‘“‘The only drawback is noi
being in class with English students.

Students will be accomodated in

private rooms in Wolfson College, a
modern faciltiy on the west side of
Cambridge, close to the main lecture
rooms and libraries. Meals will be served
in hall at Wolfson, including the
traditional British repast, afternoon tea.

History Professor Malcolm Lester, a
specialist in Anglo-American relations
between 1760 and 1815, will serve as
resident director. Lestor, who was
among the first American Fulbright
Scholars to study in England, is a Fellow
of the Royal Historical Society.

.The on-site program coordinator is
Wolfson President John Morrison. Mor-
rison has been serving as the Mellon
Visiting Professor of Humanities at
Davidson since last year.

Free weekends at Cambridge will
provide plenty of opportunity for travel
throughout the English countryside.
London is only an hour away by fast
train.

‘‘Because there were no classes on
Friday, everyone took 3-day trips,”’
junior Julie Cheney, another 1980 parti-
cipant, recalled. ‘‘Day trips were pos-
sible during the week because classes

usually ended around lunch time.”’
“IT would definitely recommend going

into London at night to the theatre

because student tickets are cheap,”’
Cheney continued.

Many of last year’s participants
traveled throughout Europe before the
program began. One remained for a week
afterwards to hitchhike through Scot-
land and Ireland.

Senior Mark Shogry, who spent four
weeks in southern Europe, strongly
recommended traveling before the pro-
gram started. ‘‘The six weeks are an
intense period of good times and at the
and I was ready to come home. It would
have been a letdown just to travel.”

All of the 1980 students agreed that
their ‘home base’’ at Oxford was as

(College Communications Dept.)

enjoyable as their weekend excursions.
The expanded 1981 Cambridge pro-
gram promises just as much fun and
academic challenge to this summer’s
band of Davidson adventurers.
(Editor’s note: The 1981 program costs
$1825, which includes tuition, room and

board, but not transportation or inci-
dental expenses.

Interested students may obtain appli-
cations at the International Education
Office in Chamers 250 or from Dr.
Lester. Applications should be returned
with a $100 deposit by February 2. The
deposit will be refunded if the applicant

is not accepted.)

Davidson ROTC cadets are not green monsters

By JENNY O’BRIANT
Staff Writer

Cadet Sergeant Major Jeff Wright looked down the
barrel of his M-16 rifle. Carefully, he drew a bead on the
leader of the heavily armed enemy patrol. On the éom-
mander’s signal, Wright and four other camouflaged
Ranger Oriented Cadets (ROCS) opened fire on the ag-
gressors. Wright stopped the first man in his tracks.
The ambush was perfectly executed: ROCS 14, enemy
0.

This is not a description of next week’s events in
Tehran, but a typical field assignment for ROTC par-
ticipants across the country.

Because of widespread animosity toward the military
during the Vietnam War, such an exercise would not
have occured on a college campus, according to
Soldier’s Magazine (Jan. 1980).

Today, ROTC, or the Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps, is becoming more popular nationwide. At

ROTC cadets organize for more field maneuvers.

Davidson, ROTC enrollment, which includes students
from Barber Scotia College, Belmont Abbey College,
Johnson C. Smith University, and UNC-Charlotte,
jumped from 108 to 142 students during the past year.
Non-scholarship freshman enrollment of Davidson stu-
dents increased from 7 students to 30 students.

ROTC did not really begin until 1916, when the
National Defence Act was passed, establishing both
high school and college officer training programs under
the Department of War. In 1919 Davidson was one of
the first colleges to request a ROTC program. Today
College President Samuel Spencer, who was Davidson’s
ROTC Cadet Major in 1940, is happy with the ROTC
program, according to Colonel Roger Powell.

ROTC was required for Davidson freshmen until
1970. Then, the requirement was lifted, and ROTC
participation dropped considerably. Since 1970, how-
ever, enrollment has continued to grow. Currently,
there are 75 Davidson cadets in ROTC, approximately

(David McCurry)

6 percent of the college population. Last year there were
55 cadets.

“We are not green monsters,’’ emphasized Colonel
Roger Powell. ‘‘We are humans involved in a special
program with strong emphasis on open options during
the first year.”’

This year thirty-six Davidson students are ROTC
scholarship recipients. These scholarships pay for all
expenses, including room and board, for up to four
years.

“I wanted to come to Davidson because Davidson
has an excellent pre-med program,” Wilson Sofley, a
scholarship recipient, said. ‘‘Without the scholarship, I
would be at another school.”’

Battalion Commander David Green, a senior scholar-
ship recipient, said, ‘‘I want to serve my country. I also
want to be a physician. With ROTC, I can be both a
doctor and an Army officer.’’ For Green, employment
security is also a factor, ‘‘I know I’ll have a job when I
get out of school — a job that will be both mentally and
physically exciting.”’

Green said that in a few cases, students do partic-
ipate in ROTC solely for the financial benefits. Usually,
however, students gradually become interested in
ROTC for its own sake, rather than just as a means to
inexpensive education.

For example, junior Todd Cowdery said, ‘‘I was in
ROTC originally because of the financial benefits of the
scholarship program. Then I became interested in the
leadership training and organizational skills taught [in
ROTC].

ROTC-sponsored campus activities include the
recent Blood Drive. Cadets collected 306 pints of blood
during the one-day drive, more than some larger
schools collected over three days. ROTC also sponsored
last fall’s Turkey Shoot.

The Basic Course gives freshmen and sophomores
the opportunity to observe and participate in the ROTC
program while deciding whether or not the program is
right for them. The staff also evaluates each student to
determine his or her potential to be a good officer. ‘‘The
‘freshmen are looking at you and you’re looking back,”

“ Military Science Professor Colonel Roger Powell

said.

Participants in the Basic Course are not obligated to
remain in the program; they may withdraw at any time.
The Basic Course takes up little time, and does not
count toward graduation requirements.

The Advanced Course is more selective, and students

in the program agree to become commissioned officers
upon graduation from Davidson or graduate school.
The ROTC department pays $100 monthly to students
in return for their commitment. Graduates will go on to
serve three years of active duty and three in Reserve.
Or, they may volunteer or be chosen to serve on
Reserve Forces Duty.
