NC-PIRG versus ’

Students circulate Sierra Club petition:

8 Ps ay Jef Holland 84.

ge “The” Dabidson aed of. NC- PIRG (North
Carolina — Public Interest Research Group) is

circulating . a, SierraClub. petition requesting ithe:
ation of al ty. of the Interior’ James Watt :

OE ie of Secret
“President, ” “senior Geof Little’ said, “We

received. the. petition: in the mail and: decidedto..:

ete the. ete es the platform th

2h: Aitiough he nctmits that ee oes not expect, the

‘petition to be successful in ousting Watt, Geof feels

that its nee to a will be most important.

‘
es

‘economic interest:

He said, “We iwarit Congress to khow that. we care

“about the President” s appointments and’ that we want

to keep ahy eye on his actions.”
The petition charges that. Watt “is seeking to

defy decades of. legislation designed to protect our
epresenting. private

natural resource and: ’ oral | Je

a The’petition urges Congress to
make the removal of ‘Watt from office “highest
priority” and requests tejection of legislation which
" PIRG, has posted copies of the

reflects. his polic :
“petit n “along | ‘with an. explanation of the Sierra

Club’s platform in Chambers, the Union Cafe and
other locations around campus. People are also

~. circulating them around Patterson Court.

tea noha wes i VEU
.

tear me ee

The’ petition project reflects a new direction for

“ PIRG this year. Suffering: from ‘continually

decreasing funds, Geoff said that this year PIRG at
Davidson will de-emphasize the research aspect of

the organization and ‘work on “raising ‘student

consciousness” on public issues.
The decline’ in. funding is due toa change in the

‘contribution policy on the part of the College. In the
spring of 1980, the College changed PIRG’s funding

system from a “negative check-off system” to a
“positive check-off system.” Under the old negative

- Check-off system, the College tacked a PIRG fee on
- to each tuition bill. The College refunded the fee
‘upon request. The organization now uses a positive

funding system, in which.a student adds the fee
voluntarily to his bill and the College forwards it to
PIRG.

Geof said that all PIRG chapters raise . funds i in

‘similar ways and that he is not sure what the original

reason was for this policy.
The PIRG chapter at Rutgers is facing a lawsuit

over its funding system which is still based én
' negative check-off.

Geof'said that PIRG has had no trouble with -
funding policy of Davidson since the change.
Because of its lack of financial support, the

., Status of PIRG at Davidson is in limbo this year. The
state office determined last year that because of its

inadequate funding, they would not’send an official
to the campus this year. However, the Davidson’
chapter still receives PIRG Jiterature and receives an

~ occasional unofficial visit from-the state office.

“We didn’t utilize our staff member very much |
when we had one, so we are very comfortable with
the situation as it stands,” Geof said. .

Un order to encourage greater interest on the
part of Davidson students this year, PIRG plans to
emphasize political consciousness and try to
eliminate programs that’ ‘require long-term
commitments, Geof said. PIRG will finish off their
enetgy-efficiency study of off-campus housing,
started last year, and present it before the Trustees at
their meeting next week. PIRG also plans to get
involved in hazardous waste disposal . research,

‘environmental research, and consumer issues.

Currently, there are eight to ten people actively-
involved in NC-PIRG at Davidson, plus a number of
people who indicated an interest at the Activities Fair
last month: ‘Geof said that ‘this is: an appropriate
number considering the size of the College and the

‘small amount of time the average Davidson student is

able to give to extracurricular activities. Geof said
they are planning for more student contact as the year

progresses, including contacting the signers of the

Watt A petitiea,
