10—The Davidsonian—April 24, 1981

Where does the bookstore get all those ladies at the beginning
of the term who have foreign accents? —
What’s Sam Spencer going to do with that old green car with
aird ccrap all over it that sits in his backyard?
Why do Davidson girls always order Tab, then get cake and
ice cream to go with it?
; Did they have girls’ bath-
The Brick Bros. rooms in ‘Chambers and the
Union before there were girls
& here?
Since the room above the
Morrisson room is now the Big
The Doughboys Screen room, was the Morrison
_— room the Big Screen— Morrison
room last year or was the room upstairs the Morrison room0
Maybe the TV lounge was the Morrison room—but hen it once
had: the big screen in it and it was called the Big Screen/
lounge room, the Morrison room was the Morrison/ugly paint-
ing room, and the rodm upstairs was the future Big Screen/
maybe Morrison room.

How ridiculous is it to have that ping-pong table sitting on a
pool table?

Did you know Davidson is the only school in the world where
it is impossible to get root beer? Bob Jones U., Hiroshima State,
and Kazakhinistan State at Belgrade all have it, but not D.C.

What flavor is Nekot? What does Nekot stand for? Is it an
acronym for New Enzymes Kill Old Tomatoes? Or is it just
Token backwards? Does Lance products make as much money
on Nekot as it does on Toast-chee, Nip-chee, and salted pea-
nuts? How can Davidson carry Nekot, but not root beer?

PhD’s for? Did Leland Park need his PhD to break his leg?

Who pays at Coffee and Cokes?

Why are the bathrooms in Cunningham so clean?

Who goes to the YMCA ATO Yogurt Salad lunch?

Who cares about E.H. Little’s birthday? Why don’t we
celebrate Ebenezer Watts’, Millard Sentelle’s, or Obediah
Chambers’ birthday? Or are they all dead?

Did you know the guest house was the library before Grey
Student Union was the library? Of course Grey Student Union
wasn’t a Union when it was a library, and the guest house
certainly wasn’t a guest house when it was a library. And back
when the guest house was called the library the Grey Student
Union wasn’t the library or the Union. All of this could mean
that sometime in the future Ann Keith and Mary Carpenter will
live in the basement of the Union which won't be the Union
then. Back when the library was the guest house (of course the
library wasn’t the guest house then but was the library) they
didn’t have a laundry or a guest house and there was no
Cunningham in which to have clean bathrooms. Is that clear?

Who's the jerk that slides paper under people’s doors?

You know that after Chambers closes the Union answers the
phone, but who answers after the Union closes?

What does a nun with a javelin stuck in her eye have in
common with a zebra with its legs cut off? Both are black, white,
and red and can’t turn around in an elevator.

Why do all librarians look like librarians? What do they need -

The story of Hattie’s place has become on eof
the Great Davidson legends, along with Peter
Stuart Ney, Bill Edwards, and Woodrow Wilson.
Perhaps because of its-rather tragic end, Hattie’s
Tavern was catapulted into almost instant fame.
Its demise by fige in 1975 is one of the few annual
events commemorated by students.

As an institution, Hattie’s probably had as
profound an effect on Davidson student life as
required chapel. So, when I heard a rumor that
the original Hattie, owner of the tavern named
after her, was still around, I pursued it with great
interest. I set out, with my usual cohort,

photograper Sally Neal, conspicuously absent, 4
and met Hattie in her blue and white trailer home !

near the ‘site of her tavern.

Hattie Morgan is a handsome woman who
looks about half of her 70 years. Her “place” was
on Route 115 up the road apiece from the
Mecklenburg/Iredell county line, next to what is
now the Corner tavern. All that’s left of Hattie’s
is the concrete foundation where clumps of grass
grow up through faded floor tiles and metal
barrels and scrap wood lay stacked to one side.

Hattie’s opened in 1944 as a combination store
and tavern. On the store side, Hattie sold
groceries, tropical fish, mynah birds and ceramics
that she formed, fired and painted herself. We
already know what was sold on the tavern side.
Out forn were the gas pumps; a large rusted Gulf
sign still marks the spot.

When Hattie’s opened, students were not
allowed to drink on campus. Many a quaking

student hid behind the door to avoid recognition (ame

by a professor. A large willow tree, dubbed ‘‘The
Beer Tree’’ by students, stood out front, empty
bottles and cans hanging from its branches.

There was only one beer drinking contest ever
held at Hattie’s, Hattie said. Hog Anderson
drank a quart of beer out of an oil can in three
seconds to win the title. Unfortunately, the Dean
found out and Hog was restricted to campus,
ending a tradition before it began. Hattie said
that the only trouble she ever had with Davidson
boys was when they’d start throwing their beer
botiles at passing trais. ‘‘I’d just go out and tell
‘em to quit,” she said. And that waould be the
end of that.

It is obvious that the relationship between
Hattie and ‘‘her boys” was one of great affection.
She would cook huge Christmas dinners and load
the tables in the tavern with the food. ‘“‘They
thought Hattie’s place was their place,’’ she said.
They called her their mother away from home and
one fraternity sent her a silver platter for
Mother’s Day. Hattie’s was open every weekday

In Veritate Magna Vis _| Hattie’s burned, but Hattie lives on
A few things we still wonder about at-Davidson... By AURIE HALL and Saturday, and after a football game you
Why are the bathrooms in Duke so short? Staff Writer couldn’t walk through the yard.

Hattie sold her ‘‘place’”’ in 1974 and the next
year she watched from her home as it burned to
the ground. She had run Hattie’s for 28 years.

Originally, Hattie and her husband had a
sandwich shop in Davidson between Parks Rexall
Drugs and the present Conder Seetzer Hoover
Insurance building. That was about 45 years ago,
when medicine shows would come through,

Photograph by Sally Neal

Hattie poses before the sign that marks the spot
of her well-mourned tavern.

selling snake oil and elixir, and the Carolina Inn
and Copeland House still catered meals to
students.

Hattie still misses her boys, occasionally
flipping through old Davidson annuals. She
recognizes most of the faces although the names
aren’t as familiar.

She appreciates hearing from old students, she
said. When she heard about the shooting of
sophomore Joe leman at Hattie’s Night, she tried
to call him to see how he was and to tell him she
was thinking of him, but was unable to reach him.

I asked Hattie what was the greatest change
she had seen at Davidson. She said it was
probably when students stopped hiding behind
doors and began openly selling beer on campus. ‘ |

Survey

(continued from page 1)
been offered, but I don’t think I got it.”’

' Others disagreed. ‘‘I have been liberated from
ignorance in any number of areas and have been
liberated from dogma in all areas,’’ one senior asserted.

Overall, the seniors seemed confident about their
futures. “Finding as job was difficult. . . but in the long
run I think liberal arts supported by work experience
will put me ahead of those with a technical degree,” an
economics major wrote. ‘‘Whatever I decide to do I feel
well prepared to handle it,”’ another added. Understan-
dably those without set plans for next year were less

‘confident: 57% said they did not feel Davidson had
prepared them to choose a vocation, compared to 25%
of the whole group. But all but one of those uncertain
about next year siad they would choose Davidson
Those headed for graduate school wee more confident

studies said Davidson prepared them well. for a
‘vocational choice, and only 13% did not. know their
lifetime vocation. Of those who have chosen to work
next year, only 30% felt well-prepared’by Davidson for
-a career choice and 70% had not chosen their lifetime

The men in the surveyed group were more confident
than the women, Only 10% did not feel prepared for
their vocation, compared to 37% for the women. All of
those entering jobs in the $15-20,000 salary range were
men. And 78% of the men had certain plans for next
year, compared to 62% for the women.

Number of responses; 44 Yes Unsure No
Male: 46%, Female: 54%

Do you know exactly what you will be doing next year? 69 % 31%
If so, what?

Graduate study 50% Army 6%

Job 33% Fellowship 3%

Have you chosen what you regard as your lifetime vocationO 56 % 6% 36%
If you are going to graduate school, are you officially accepted? 86% 13%
Was it your first choice school? 86% 13%
If you are going into a job, is it in yor planned lifetime career

area? 30% * 40% 30%
Starting salary:

$10,000-$15,000: 50% $15,000-$20,000: 30% Unsure: 20%
Is your planned career similar or identical to that of one of your
Are you engaged, or do you expect to become engaged in the

next year? 25% 75 %
If so, is your future spouse a DC student or alumnus? 81% 18%
If you had it to do over again, would you attend Davidson?

Yes: 86% For 2 yrs.: 2%

No: - 6% Unsure: 4%

Ft hes it do over again, would you attend a liberal arts 90% 4% 4%:
If you had it to do over again, would you choose the same

major? [eee article]: oura 62 13% 22%
What was the single most valuable facet of your four years at

Davidson? {see article}.

What was your single favorite course? [see article).

Do you feel Davidson Prepared you well for your choice of a

vocation? [see article]. . 68% 6% | 25%
Would you characterize the liberal arts education offered here as 7

a “liberating experience?” (see article).

72% 2% 2h%
