March 20, 1981—The Davidsonian—5

The teaching of evolution shows Man’s spiritual growth

\

Scot Myers '84

‘Daddy, where did I come from?" This question has
been the bane of many parents’ lives. A quick ‘The
stork brought you,”’ and a pat on the rear end and the
child walks. off, content in the knowledge that he was
delivered by a great white bird that rarely loses its way.
Obviously, it is a story. It simplifies a subject that
would normally be quite complicated to a child and
dismisses a matter that most parents are reticent to
discuss. After all, not many children, or parents for
that matter, would fully understand how meiotic cells
join to complete chromosome chains, then go through a
blastula, gastula, and fetal stage and, after many,
many contractions, pop out as a seven pound child.

So when pre-Biblical man asked his heavenly Father,
‘where did we come from?” He told them a story. We
have come to know that story as “Genesis” and it
explained the creation of man and the universe to our
ancient forefathers.

The father, when he tells his son the story of ‘‘the
stork,”’ realized that, in time, the child will learn how
children are really conceived and brought into the

world. God, too, realized that man would grow, learn,

and eventually grasp the truth of the universe. Yet, in
California, a group of ‘‘Creationists’’ now contends that
the current theories of evolution are incorrect and that
Genesis is, in fact, correct. According to the
creationists, the planets, stars, and the rest of the
universe were created in six days and the Earth itself is
only 20,000 years old, not 4.6 billion as the
evolutionists estimate.

The face of the Earth, the creationists say, was
shaped by a great flood. That same flood is what set up
the river/lake systems and also exterminated the
organisms we know as dinosaurs, whose fossil remains
we still find today. Since that cataclysmic event, all
new lifeforms have been the result of direct creation.

There are a few problems with the creationist theory,
however. When relying on the Bible for evidence, one is
frequently standing on thin ground. For instance,
Genesis states that on the second day, God created the
plants of the Earth and then, on the third day, he
created the sun and the moon. Yet the source of our
light on Earth is our sun. We also know that plants
require sunlight in order to maintain photosynthesis
and, hence, survive. Also, there is only one great flood
in the Bible. And according to the Bible, Noah ‘‘shall
bring two of every sort into the ark, to keep them
alive.’ Never again will God ravage the face of the
Earth with floods. Yet the dinosaurs were here and now
they're gone.

When creationists realized that they could not fully
rely on the Bible to defend them, they turned to the new
‘Scientific Creationism.’’ Tough evolutionists (most
of whom are biologists) argue that without the Bible

there is no creationist model for how the Earth evolved,
scientific Creationists argue that evoltionary theory
simply has too many unanswered questions. Having
done virtually no research, scientific Creationists pick
through scientific data, searching for holes. They
contend that carbon dating. used to validate evolution-
ist theories, does not always produce accurate results,
and hence our entire dating system is incorrect.
According to them, it takes far more ‘‘faith’’ to believe
in evolution than it does to recognize the hand of divine
intervention.

Scientific creationists think terrestial and human
development is guided by an ‘‘external force’ (they
don’t even use God anymore) which intervenes at each
stage of the universe’s formation, while evolutionists
allow for things to unfold directly from the laws of
physics. But scientific creationists contend that
evolution cannot occur under the Second Law of
Thermodynamics, which put simply states that all
things move toward maximum disorder and Ines of
energy (what Chemists call ‘‘entropy’’).

Creationists fail to recognize, however, that Ilya
Prigogine won the 1977 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for
proving that the Second Law does not apply to ‘“‘open
systems” such as living things, which have cycles to
replace lost energy. In the example given by Time
plants soak up sunlight and convert it into energy, even
though the sun, its source. is slowly dying out.

For either side, creationist or evolutionist, there are

many discrepancies in data. And yet, after 100 years of
rigorous scientific inquiry, scientists still believe that:
evolution is the correct path.

The worst aspect of the dispute is the effect
creationist theory is having on education. In California,
creationists are fighting to have their theory taught in
the biology classroom. Yet 90% of the high school
teachers in California are 3trongly opposed. So, instead
of the ‘‘two-model approach” (that is, teaching beth
theories of man’s origin), teachers refuse to teach
anything dealing with Darwin or Genesis. Textbooks
once containing thousands of words explaining
Darwin’s theories on many have been cut down to
hundreds and sections about geologic eras have been
deleted entirely.

Is this how creationists expect our children to be
educated? Like ‘‘the stork”, the story of Genesis is one
of the first things taught to children. It is presented to
them in religion courses. Must it be a part of biology,
too? Unlike religion, evolution is taught, not: forced.
Students need not believe it, they simply should
understand it. This is what we call learning.

Perhaps, while our ‘Father’ watches His children,
they have not grown or learned as much as He would
expect. And like any father whose child is doing poorly
in school, He can’t help but be disappointed, since His
children really haven’t grown that much at all.

Scot Myers is from Trenton, NJ.

T
we ener cen ne en ae Ne ee
.- eps ent

Davidson should be a better audience

Tim Bethea ‘81

Write on,

I think it was Shelley who said that
poets are the unacknowledged legislators
of the world. If so, we let another of
these legislators get away from us a few
weeks ago. Marvin Bell visited Davidson
as a favor to Dr. Abbott and the English
Department, to read his own poetry and
to conduct workshops for student poet-
ry. The crowd at Mr.Bell’s reading was
small, but enthusiastic. It was never-
theless disappointing to find that at
least half of the dozen or ‘so people
present at the reading were from outside

the College community. Where were our

guys?

Of course, we do not have to pay
attention to these poets, just as we do
not have to pay attention to earthquakes
in Italy, acid rain in the Midwest, or
murders in El Salvador. But these
things are happening. And when poets
come to Davidson they are happening,
existing, making noise: RIGHT HERE.
Ignoring Mr. Bell and others who visit
the campus means we students ignore
the chance to learn something.

‘Part of the responsibility for being a
student is taking the time to learn.
When Mr. Bell plummets into the
American soil of Davidson College, we as
students and stout upholders of liberty
are supposed to be around listening to

what he says. That’s our job. There is
not enough money around to lure poets
to Davidson. These legislators are
passing through only to get the word
out—their words, to be sure. These
legislators are coming for us; they will
stop coming when they are convinced
that we have stopped listening, and that
is when we will be in trouble.

We think that liberty is worth
suffering for. We are supposedly study-
ing to ‘‘liberate” our minds, and we
suffer for it, brother. But sometimes we
suffer the wrong way, forgetting the goal
and remembering the strife. Marvin Bell
worth the loss of an otherwise valuable
hour of studying because what he has to
say has immediate importance. We learn
right away,onthe spat. = |

After four paragraphs I do not want to
batter anyone with Marvin Bell. Mr.
Bell is one of many who troop through
here (it’s just that he troops through
here so few times!). L.T.G. Griffith or
O.B. Hardison are just as good exam-
ples. My point is that it is worth our
time and energy to put away these other
earthly activities (i.e., studying) to
attend to events of moment and mean-
ing. Missing these events means missing
much.

For current examples of visiting

‘‘Legislators”’ of ideas, we had Professor
Frithjof. Bergmann speaking Monday
and Tuesday; Professor Carl Cohen on
Tuesday; lectures by Professor Stephen
Stich today and tomorrow, and Dr.
William Bennett on Monday; the list
goes on and on. The opportunities for
learning arise constantly; we need to rise
with them.

I started this by hinting that missing
Mr. Bell’s poetry reading might be akin
to a sort of treason: that’s because I am
an English major and happen to believe
that spoken words are usually important
(especially when the author is speaking
them). I think it is legitimate to expand
my private indignation to public pro-
portions because spoken words represent __
private notiofis needing an audience.
Here we are supposed to be such an
audience. Poets and other legislators
need to get their ideas out, and students
need to get those ideas in. When we fail
in our responsibilities as students, fail to
hear the words, fail to reckon with the
ideas, no matter from what mouth or
point of view, then we fail to be students
and become traitors to our own cause.
As Confucius said, ‘‘A ku that is not
truly a ku? A ku indeed! A ku indeed!”

Tim Bethea is a senior English major
from Hendersonville, North Carolina.

Draw one

for us

The Davidsonian is going to

print a four page supplement of
student writing and art work. We
need poems, stories, essays, line
drawings, black and white prints
and photographs.
' Go on, take the plunge and
submit that crinkled masterpiece
lying at the bottom of your desk
drawer. Profound as well as hum-
orous submissions are welcome.

Please bring your creations to
the Davidsonian office by Friday,
March 27. Or call Anne Goodwin
at 892-6657. :

The Davidsonian welcomes columns
on any subject. We reserve the right to
edit for clarity, length, and accuracy.
Call Opinions Editor James Barrat
[892-6257] if interested. .

|

