Assistant Director of Admissions Jimmy Will-

iams brought A Better Chance, Inc, (ABC) with him’
_ when he came to Davidson this year.

- ABC is a non-profit organization that places tal-
ented minority students into top-notch prep schools.
Mr’ Willams serves as one of ABC’s s regional direc-

_ tors.
_ Because ABC sends out a list of graduating ABC stu-

dents to interested colleges every year, M" Williams’s

connection with the organization might attract more
minority students to Davidson.

Last year, 37 minority students applied to David- _
_ son; 27 were accepted; and 17 enrolled. “We proba-
- bly need to make Davidson more visible to minori-

ties,” M‘ Williams said.
ABC students are of such high calibre that they usual-
ly are accepted by well-established, prestigious

_ schools. Because they have. not been made aware of
‘Davidson, ABC students opt to go Ivy League and

other very well-known schools, M‘ Williams said.
Since ABC was ‘organized in 1963, 80% of the

- 7000 students it has plced have.graduated from prep

school, and 90%. of the prep school graduates have
gone on to college.
Davidson is.M’ Williams’s third assignment with

~ ABC. He also worked for ABC in Eastern New Eng-

SGA Phonathon

Goal set at $100,000 for December drive.

The SGA’s annual Phonathon starts the first week.
after Thanksgiving break.
The co-chairmen, senior Stuart Dorsett and jun-

ior Ken Krieg, have set this year’s goal at $100,000.

Last year the SGA raised $60, 000 for the College’s
Living Endowment.

An anonymous alumnus has offered a challenge. .
grant, promising to matchievery. dollar -each- alumni’.
class contributes over its donations from last year’s
Phonathon. The alumnus said" he would. give up-to

$100,000.

This year the SGA hab appended the plitcathion 90

last ten-hights, with forty students making calls-each

night: Students ‘will solicit all alumni classes from.

1924: to. 1980. Ne Ultra’ Society members (alumni
oe ee nnually) wall ne

days with thirty s

Tah ha

_ Sate Penton oc hom back tothe class
-, 0f 1950. oe
"Stuart said the Phonathon should help the College Sy

‘

~

raise. alumni participation i in the Living Endowment
from 33 percent to its goal of 40 percent. Pledges
from the Phonathon will go towrds the Living En-
dowment’s overall goal of one million dollars i in do-
nations for 1981.

Stuart also said the Phonathon “lends cnedibilky tc to

the ‘school’s fund ‘raising fice and: “increases -

a: Brown. Freshmen Kelly Sundberg and John Laughlin

svn villa
nt Soha moat ane

| A Better Chance

an Dean Jimmy Williams hopes to attract
: minority prep school students to Davidson

land and New York City. “These kids often come
from an all—minority environment to a predominately
white area,” M‘ Williams said. They need help in ad-
justing to the new situation. M' Williams acts as “a fa-
ther figure to most of these kids.” He visits prep
schools twice a year to talk to students and faculty
about the students’ progress and problems.

M Williams works with students from five prep
schools, One ” hundred seventy-five secondary
schools are members of ABC. Most of these are in the
Northeast, and the’ ‘organization is expanding i into Ca-
lifornia, Texas and Minnesota.

If necessary, ABC provides some financial aid to
needy students though it 'is not primarily a scholart-
ship organization. Boarding school students get up to
$1500 per annum and day school students up to $750.
In some areas, ABC runs Public School Programs
which sponsor a:residence with “house parents and
tutors” for some of thie students, the brochure said.

Blacks make up the majority of the students ABC

_ is interested in: Other minorities included are Hispan-

ics, Asian—Americans and Indians. Some white stu-
dents are also assisited; these form 6% of the total.

By Mahmoud Sayani '84.

ter 9:30, as they were last year.

A different pair of students representing some
campus group will recruit each night’s callers. The
night chairmen for the first week of the Phonathon are
Jonathan West and Chip Christian representing the
doughboys on ‘Tuesday, 1 December. Stephanie
Moffet and Carol Jolly of Emanon will be in charge
on Tuesday. Barry Mack and Bob Whalen of Sigma
Phi Epsilon will recruit for Thursday. J.C. Faulkner
and Dan Newsome of SAE will be chairmen on Sun-
day, 6 December, and André Kinnebrew and Mike
lordanou of the BSC and Phi Delta Theta will be in
charge on Monday. Senior Rick Gaines will coérdi-
nate the first week of the drive.

The second week's coordinator is senior Andy

will chair the’ Phonathon on Tuesday, 8 December.

_ Stokes-Peeple. and Hill Stockton of KA run the show
-on Wednesday. FiJIs Jim Cheek and John Teague are

Thursday’s’ chairmen. Gray Hampton and Terry

-- Wade of PiKA will be in charge on Sunday, 13 De-
~ -cember, and Anne Hurt and Shannon Walters of Rusk
tat ne will chair the *honat

me at Gay ey ee
" Woluntedts stot contact vag ‘managers for

