the title and forecast of a. 1981

of a 1981 report by the Coun-
cil of State Planning Agencies, ‘an or-
ganization of the planning and. policy
staffs of the nation’s governors. The

Council finds major: deterioration in .

parts of the country’s infrastructure —
that is, vital services such as clean wa-
ter, reliable transportation, efficierit

ports, and competent waste disposal, .

which are indispensable underpinnings
for an industrial :ystem. The report
finds —as any travelet on: United States
railroads. knows — that “the mainte-

~ nance of public facilities essential tona- |

- tional eccnomic: oer has been de-
ferred.”

Simultaneously, the means. of

production: of . United States industry
have been deteriorating.

_ Production inccmpetence, now en-
demic, is spreading fast, not only in the
well-publicized. case of automobile

firms but also in the following itidus-

tries: steel, machine tools, radio and
television Manufacturing,
equipment, precision optics, fine came-
ras, men’s shoes, flatware, hi-fi elec-
tronics, etc., etc., ‘etc. ‘ «

As private and public managers be-

come better at making money. without
_ taking economically, useful goods, a

new issue: finally will, have. to. be con- ep
; fom Will AmeENatt sats deeoha a

ae

_ MERICA IN RUINS’ IS BOTH

railroad.

by Seymour Melman

the New York Times

condition of “no return,” making the

‘ achievement of industrial renewal pro-

blematic?
*The way that an economy Uses its

capital — its production resources — is —

a crucial determinant of its productivity
and economic well-being.

4 Y 1977, FOR’EVERY $i00 OF NEW .
(producer’s) fixed capital form-

ation, the United States applied

“$46 to the military economy. In Japan,

the ration was $3.70. for the military.
The concentration of Japan’s capital on
productive economic growth goes far to

_ explain the current success of that coun-

try’s industry, where productivity grew

_ 6.2 percent in 1980. By contrast, with

the United States’ .aging machinery

_ stock, the average output per person in

manufacturing industry decreased 0.5
percent in 1980.

~The United States has “achieved”

its present state of industrial deteriora-

tion by assigning to the military eco-
homy. large quantities. of machinery,

tools, engineers, energy: raw materials,

One last a

A Republican senator discusses cutting defense spending

“wy ODAY, MONTHS

_ AFTER

skilled labor, and managers — resour-
ces identified everywhere as the “fixed
and working capital” that is vital for
production.

~get is used to purchase such re-
sources, it is, effectively, a capi-

tal fund. A large ratio.of military to civ-
ilian capital formation drains the civili-
an economy. The viability of the United
States as an industrial society is threa-
tened by the concentration of capital ina

S INCE A. MODERN MILITARY BUD-

- fund that yields no produict useful for

consumption on behalf of the military
economy can only: be accelererated as a
consequence of: the: unprecedented size

THE

of the war budgets advocated by the
Reagan Administration.

The vital resources that constitute a
nation’s capital fund cannot be enlarged
by waving a budgetary wand. Neither
can manufacturing facilities be multi-
plied by ever richer subsidies to the
managers of. military industry. Basic
machinery, skilled labor, engineers and.
scientists — all are finite in number and
difficult to increase.

The concentration of capital on the
military portends sharply diminished
opportunity for a productive livelihood
for most Americans. Clearly, a choice
must be made as.to where these resour-
ces will be.used.

| revidliging our free’ enterprise ¢ economic system. ‘We
’ have moved three quarters of the way. Now, we must
-move the final quarter. That means difficult, even 1 pain-

ful:choices in: spending fot defense eee mast other go- ~

»»-Vetmment programs. °

‘During the eight rises fuel feign we bisa iat in-

place the final steps necessary to set our national fiscal
house in order. —
"We have been able to do so because both the presi-

of those who continue to seek economic. advice from

counselors whose ideas have long. singe proved to be.

bankrupt.

. "Consider ‘what we” have done thus far with Pres
Reagan’s leadership:
We have reversed the formerly entrenched philos-
_ ophy that only t the federal government:can solve every

problem of every citizen. In doing so, we have struck at.

-_ the heart of deficit-financing approach that has brought
the nation’s economy to the brink of ruin.

We have. insisted. that responisible. fiscal policy .

requires that taxes can be reduced only when counter-
productive federal spending i is-also reduced sharply.
We have moved rigorously to eliminate costly
regulations that have crippled the free enterprise eco-
nomy by making it seine — if not seer in

a B “inauguration « of. Ronald i we ‘have ey

Bob Packwood
_United States Senator

_ steps when Con fess returns fr

dent and Congress have refused to yield tothelobbying sy to see the dran

-that the president and Congres

“look: ahead to 1 84. If we had followed the path set for

| America by, former. president Jimmy Carter, the
government: would have collected $915 billion in takes

matly cases — fot risrohcits seh incistries to take full

advantage of their: creative Lriamaae

that. the fate of the president’ s economic
|. program rests, ultimately on taking additional

Bue ee AHEAD, IT. Is “CLEAR

matic “alteration of tarde

It ise ama
have made when we

in 1984, and spent $889 billion. .<
Under the leadership of Pres’ Reagan and ith the

. Support of the Congress, the federal.government. will
collect $770 billion and spend $760 billion.

Even the gloomiest: of the economic prophets
ought to realize that the American people will be better
off by approximately $145 billion i in 1984 taxes under

eee than they: would have been under Pres'
Carter, .; .
: I believe that the economic future of America and

the welfare of our people in the new term hinges on
en ee cee re

, »
page 11/DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

quarter of ther race.

willingness, with the help ot Congress, ‘to the last

“If the public believes if this progtam and if Wall
Street believes in it, then the world will believe it.
This can occur only if the president moves for-
ward with the boldness he has so far shown to the coun-
try and the world.
Of course, we must’ maintain, as the president i in-
sists, a level and quality of national ‘security that is a
full match for-its economie strength. But the military
establishment must accept the reality that it, too, must

share the budget reductions that are. inevitable if the

president’s program is to be accomplished.
~The real tragedy would be to falter now in the
drive for both the enhancement of our national security

and the stability of our economy. The foundation has

been well laid to li the tax. load of all Americans
and to provide the taxation incentives to revive busi-
ness and industry. These steps will spur increased em-
ployment and productivity, bh of which are essential
to our full recovery. .< ~

“We have also acted. desisivelyto- pick and chitiont
among the literally thousands of ederal ‘aid programs

of clear benefit tothe mérican people. |

it We duit Mamokaaue, we Sl) heist ruthie
America to a new course, one that will carry us proudly
and securely into the 21 century, ‘instead of downward
and backward. ms

