—Film reviews with Nick Graham

OR THOSE OF YOU WHO THINK
that Lon Chaney was nothing
more than a werewolf of Lon-

don Fine Films have a deliciously
shoc .ng experience in store next

- Wednesday night in Love Auditori-__

um at 8,00 pm. This takes the form of
the original (silent) version of The
Phantom of the Opera made in the
"Twenties and starring Chaney him-

self as Erik, the demented violinist
: of the Paris Opera.

cy. classic of ‘the horror genre this

3 film is sadly more ofteri referred to |
and usually in jest at that — than it

is seen by the kind of audience which
it deserves. The story concerns Erik,
a musician who met with an unplea-

sant but rather hazy accident years.
previously which ‘hideously  dis-
figured him. He now haunts the cel-

lars of the Opera and the sewers of
Paris leading a solitary, brutish, and
foreshortened ‘existence completely

cut off from contact both with his fel-

low artists:and the bourgeoisie who \
were his patrons. However, as is the”

way with these things, he lusts after

(or genuinely loves) a beautiful girl

‘at the Opera and arranges to kidnap. .
her, ravishing her away with com- ~~

mendable efficiency and manic
energy to his troglodytic domain.

. Retribution, when it comes, from the

inhabitants of the surface is murdeér-
ously swift and the climactic ‘chase

~~ scene in the bowels of the city is one
of the finest moments in classic ag
cinema.

Lon ieee: gives ‘the ag
mance which more ae ee

The Phantom of the Opera;
The Shining

his alienation from the dry-cleaned
world of the surface invites compari-

’ sons of a political nature and it’s easy

to see. the whole feature as a docu-
ment in proletarian-bourgeois rela-
tions rather than primarily an essay
in sex-and-deformity.

On the latter subject, Chaney i is
visually fascinating,-and it is said

that his facial. expression was

achieved with very little reliance on

make-up, the bulk of the illusion be-

ing created by clever lighting and ca-

-mera-angles. At least one of the

prints of this film, besides boasting
an eerie modern electronic sound-

track was.also specially reprocessed
' (or -hand-tinted back in

the
"Twenties, I. forget which) so that

“whole’ sequences of the film, rather

than being simply black-and-white
seem to have been shot through a
variety of filters, giving an unearthly
atmosphere to the proceedings
which change from blue to gréen'to

red in the course of the action. Atthe _

time of writing however, it’s not yet

~ Clear if we’ve got that. ees ver-
sion of the ees I'm afraid.

cradle ‘Ft the bane
rq genre need: not wait how-
ever until Wednesday for:
their pleasures... Pop | Films. are. cele 2

brating ‘Halloween tonight. by. show- eZ
ing The Shining, Stanley Kubrick's —

essay in the form. Doubtless, David-
son audiences. will Fequire little
prompting from me to see this-excel-

Tent be one of the finest

Kubrick was in some way lowering
himself by dallying with something
as contemptible as the horror genre.
In fact, with some measure of hind-
sight’ one can see precisely how
wrong-headed this view was. Jack
Nicholson is simply awesome doing
what he does best: charting the
charming descent of a creative mind

into terrifying insanity, and Shelley -

Duvall screams remarkably well.
(The ‘Shining’ of the title incidental-

ly, if you did not already know, ref-
_ ers to the paranormal powers of their
_ young:s on, powers which M* Duvall
‘comes to rely upon ‘increasingly, i in
_ the face of her husband” s mental col-

lapse.) -
As Sat ia. be the case with these

things, however, ‘the real achieve-

rick’s own: having tho-
rid himself of the visual and

"technical excesses which failed to
Save. Barry. Lyndon he has produced
ee film: of almost unbearable intensity
> which taises one’s whole’ image. of

to be caretaking providing a new sort
of haunted-house which evokes fear
and suspense by its very atmosphere
but which avoids too-hackneyed ex-

cesses associated | with such domi-

ciles. The pacing, performance, and
mystery of the story are all perfectly -
judged and really one could hardly
wish for better’ entertainment on this |
particular evening. Forget thie Hallo-

~ weens and Friday the Thirteenths of

this. world, Kubrick outclasses them

effortlessly in a feature which repla-

the horror. genre onto a new level; ‘ces manipylation’and crudeness with

giving it for once an entirely credible ‘highly’ sophisticated.’ terror. You

! Lager 8" base. would be well advised to go to see it: -

: The locations ; are flawless, the all work and no play tend to make
tel which the See are supposed Jack a dull boy.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 3 30 October 1981.

dl sey ay vie ee ed a

ep Mote tee dee eo es

