olume LXXI, Number 8
College releases
‘fiscal 1980-81
expenditures: »

The most striking thing about College ex-

penditures for 1980-81 is that Davidson spent |

$1,344,477.17 more than ‘it budgeted and
still operated in the black.»

The Collge received. just short of $2 mil-
lion more income than projected.”

In order to accomodate some of the cost -

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

oyerruns a small percentage-of unbudgeted | semen ——

money, usually. one or two. percent, is. set

aside and placed under College President Sa-~.

muel Spencer's ‘control. “If a “department
B2 eek Sen pepe is Walger, itean

sistently overspend,

, budget figures ban be de-

yn, though
ceptive. Departments: are not free to over-

submit an update of. their spending in -rela-
tionship to their budget. These updates are
réviewéd by the President who decides when

adepartment has spent as:much as the college

can afford:
M’ Davidson said one reason for the ap-
parent overspending is that the College rec-

ceives money throughoutthe year fromdona-—'“

tions by ptivate sources. These contributions
are not taken into consideration when. the
budget is proposed . However, they are added
to what is spent. Therefore, the amounts ac-

tually spent are often much higher than the __
‘proposed budget. This is true, for example, _

under thé héading “Laboratories and. Depart-

ments.” A $40,000: donation. allowed. the’

College to purchase science equipment that
was not included in the proposed budget. Do-

nations also’ made it possible for the Music ~ “} =
Department to purchase the piano that ithad.---} 4

_ been requesting for several years.

Another factor is unexpected costs. This

is particularly evident under the heading “‘in-
stitutional fund” where the.money spent is

re than 100 percent over the. $400,580
“proposed. Extra money-given to the Plant

Fund is included in the’ 840,312. 70 that was ie

«Spent in this area, The Plant Fund covers all

campus buildings, the adjacent houses, and} ”

all equipment in them. Money needed to pay
for extra expenses is usually raised especially

for the Plant’ Fund through donations. ‘But, |

. M' Davidson said; if necessary; ‘money: ‘ean
be spent for the Plant Fund, éven though it is
budgeted under ““General Expense.” “‘Gener-
al Expense” money was. used. for the Plant
Fund last year when,money.was.needed for

the riding stables at the. lake campus. ‘M'Da- Se
vidson said that much of the overspending in ve

the area of “General Expense” is due to extra

expenses that have ariseb during the year in’ |

other areas.

By Anne Miano ’85

“—E

hates ey oth Each ‘month they must |”

al

* . ‘

‘
it
i
'
|
i Ce ee ~

