The Paul Masson Wine Company

vows, “ We will sell no wine before its _

time.” Fortunately for M" Masson and
company, he has the choice of when to
sell his wine.

But for Bobby Hussey and Company — —

the Davidson basetball team — wine
sales began 30 November, whether the
product had reached its time or not. Like
good wine, though, the team has im-

proved with age and should continue to —

do so throughout the season.

Hussey looked over his carefully-
tended vineyard in an exhibition game
against the Australian National Team on
Thanksgiving eve. The Aussies entered
the game with wins over East Carolina
and Iona under their belts, not to men-
tion-a game in which they lost to Virgi-
nia Commonwealth by only four points.
The Cats weren’t quite ripe for the occa-
sion, however, as they droppd a 71-76
decision.

The team was coasting along with

a six point lead late in the game when ©

suddenly everything went sour. With a
three bucket lead and the ball and only
4:42 left to play, the Wildcat offense
turned the ball over to the visitors on
three consecutive occasions, and the

Aussies capitalized. Altogether, David- —

son dished out 29 turnovers in the con-
test, and naturally the coaching staff
was a tad disturbed with that statistic.
Vintage or not, the team began its
season Monday night in Charlotte
against NC State. The Wolfpack gladly
played the role of wine pressers quite
will as they walked all over the Cats 77-
56. The only difference: the Pack wore
Nikes instead of going barefoot.
Against State the team was down-
right tentative, especially in the first
half. “Coming into the NC State game,
having seen them play twice, we knew
that they played a great transition game.
That stylé of play is‘not to our advan-
tage, especially with our lack of depth,”

Hussey said. After 29 turnovers..a few:

days before, the game plan was to settle
the ball down and keep the. Wolfpack
from running. The concept was fine, but
it suffered through flaws’ of execution

— the team overreacted: They set the

pace too slow and forced some ‘passes
inside that led toearly turnovers,

* “We felt that if we could keep it to a
10 point game with five minutes left, we
could pull it out,” Hussey speculated.
Aside from the early turnovers; “They
scored 14 points on the offensive

~~

The Bordeaux
of Basketball

-Winemaker Hussey hopes his
team will improve with age

“boards, so it wasn’t totally a lack of of -

fense.” The team kept defense to a min-
imum, and a senior post man Jamie Hall
(20 pts., 7 rebounds) noted, blocking
out was “nonexistant.” State won the
first half rebound battle 20-8.

In the locker toom at halftime Hus-
séy corrected what he identified as his
mistake — the tentative play of the

squad. The Wolfpack already had a
game to its credit\(a narow win over
Campbell), .was more confident in its

game, and Hussey told his team just to -

go out and play. The team started the se-

cond half down by:20, and they finished
the game:down by 21, having played

State almost even in the second half.
Still the team suffered more than its

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 4 December 1961

photo by Neil Cooksey ‘83

Share of second-half breakdowns. “We
didn’t block out as well as we would
have liked,” Husey commented. “We
went back over the game films, and the
old axiom is true: ‘A picture is worth a
thousand words.’”

The team returned from the uninviting
Coliseum (or more appropriately Maus-
oleum) to the more raucous wine cellar
known as Johnston Gym to bottle up the
Baptist College Bucaneers. The Bucs
(an independent Division I team) did
their share of bottling as they corked up
the Davidson transition game with an
effecitve 2-2-1 zone press, the same
type the Cats employed to keep the Pack
from running roughshod all over the
Mausoleum court.

Although Husey was far from satis-
fied with the Wednesday night perfor-

‘mance, there were some bright spots.

Sophomore forward Kenny Wilson,
who has played all 120 minuted of the
three games, exploded for 24 points (10
of 14 from the field, four for four at the
line) and hauled in seven caroms.”
“How could yopu not love him?” quer-
ied Hussey. “You ask himn to go
through a brick wall, he goes through
two.”

Second high scorer was junior post
man Cliff Tribus with 16 points. He was
8 for 12 from the flooor. He’s been try-
ing really hard. He’s had an up and
down career and really wants to have a
big year. About a week before the Aus-
tralian game he injured his knee, and it
slowed him down,” said Hussey.
Against Australia he was 3 for 3 and
against state 3 for 10. All that turned
around Wednesday. Six of his points
came on slam dunks, one a beautiful of-
fensive ’bound stuff. He tied for game
high rebounder (with John Carroll, of
all people), snagging eight misses, and
cleanly blocked one shot. Not bad for a
white boy

Despite the welcome addition to the
win column, the team was as yet “un-
sure” in Hussey’s words. “They want to
do well so badly they get a little uptight
and play too quickly. It'll work itself
out. When? “Hopefully by January.
Mid-January at the latest.”

More wine, however, must be sold -
before January. Especially tomorrow
night at NAIA standout_Erskine. Ers-
kine boasts a well-disciplined team of
average<height which Hussey says is
more methodical than the Citadel.

15
