Richards and Bailey revisited

Sophomore girls want an all-girls eating house

Sophomores Jane Alexanian, Kathy Kooken, and
Anne Rollins want to open an “all-girls” eating club
in either Richards or Bailey house in the fall of 1982.
They presented their plans to the Council on Campus
and Religious Life (CCRL) on 1 October. The CCRL
plans to recommend uses for Richards and Bailey
houses to College President Samuel Spencer before
Christmas. .

Chairman of the:CCRL, Dean of Students Will
Terry, said the committee has. heard three proposals
from groups interested in using Richards or Bailey. In
addition to Jane, Kathy, and Anne’s request for an
eating club, a group has requested that a fraternity use
one of the houses. The fraternity, Beta Theta Pi,
would not servé meals. The Black Student Coalition
presented their proposal on Thursday to use one of the
houses to the CCRL.

Dean Terry said the CCRL may also consider rec-
ommending that the houses be “language houses”,
where people using.a house would only be allowed to
speak the house’s designated language.

Dean Terry said he did not want tocomment spec- _

ifically on the all-girls eating.club proposal because
he did not want to prejudice people’s opinions. He
added that he thought “‘We’ll have'to see how things
shake down with the Commons,” before adding any
new houses on'the court, although he did not rule out
the possibility of recommending a strong proposal
from a A group interested in starting | an — club.

Requirements for court satastbership
He said the CCRL will use three criteria to meas-
ure any eating club proposal. He said the committee
will ask, “Will sie

ment. requirements on the Court..and competition
from the Commons might combine to put some of the
houses into financial trouble. He said he expects the
Commons to benefit the Court in the long run.

He said, “The only way the system works now is
there’s a waiting list.” Most houses have waiting lists

they can draw on to allow members to eat half-board:

and come and go on a term by term basis. M’ Currie
pointed out that any new eating club would drastical-
ly reduce existing houses’ waiting lists.

The all-girls petition
Last week the presidents of.seven of the ten Pat-

terson Court-establishments, the presidents of. both

off-campus fraternities, and the president of the Inter-
Fraternity Council endorsed the new all-girls eating
house proposal ina letter to the editor in the David-
sonian, The presidents of ATO, PAX,and F&M, and
the Patterson Court Council did not endorse the prop-

osal, :

The letter said that 71 per cent of the freshman
women expressed interest in eating at an all-girls.
house, and that Rusk, which presently has a 43 per-
son ‘waiting list, would not be able to accomodate
them all. The letter said the Rusk membership i is in fa-
vor of a new all-girls house.

Jane said that she and Anne and Kathy made a
door-to-door poll of freshman women to arrive at the
71 per cent figure. She said they did not ask women to
qoeaenit cree yes | to the new house, but only if they:

.

were interested in an all-girls house. Kathy said they
will start soliciting commitments after President
Spencer makes his decision, if he grants their request.
She said several upperclass women have offered to

" join the new house and help orgnize it.

The girls polled Rusk with a questionnaire at a
Rusk house meeting.

The letter said the new house would. help the
Court socially because “another all-girls house would
provide all those women who want it the opportunity
for interaction with other women, It would also im-
prove the social opportunities for women on. campus,
since the house could hold mixers and would be a fo-
rum that would enable co-eds to discuss i issues rele-
vant to women today.”

Jane and Kathy explained that it is easier to plan
and hold social functions with an all-women group
and-an all-men group. Kathy said the new all-girls
house could invite fraternities from other colleges for
mixers: They said they do not expect the house to
hold any formal forums on or discussions of women’s

-. issues, but that: women feel freer to discuss their con-

cems in an all-woman setting. -

The presidents who did not endorse the proposal
said they were not necessarily opposed to establish-
ing a new all-girl house, but that they do not think it
would be wise to establish any new houses at least un-
til they can assess the Commons’s effet on Court
houses’ membership.

By Tim Whalen ’82. rr oP

"" Richards House on Patterson Court is being eyed by' sophomore girls.

photo by Eric Long ‘83
