Point blank range

Strong showing against Duke

The hockey team showed its home fans what it
could do when it played Duke, North Carolina’s
number-one Division I team. During their warm-up
before the game, Duke’s players looked frighteningly
well armed. Their stick-work was dazzling, they
were fast, and they never missed a pass.

On the starting whistle, they took the ball, but
they immediately lost it to Davidson. As proved to be
the case for the rest of the game, the Cats had no
trouble taking the ball to Duke’s circle. Once there,
however, they had trouble capitalizing on the oppor-
tunity. Duke played a loose game, using long, strong
passes to put the ball into Davidson’s half of the field.
It looked like the same kind of strategy thet Pfeiffer
used to beat Davidson earlier on. This time, though,
the Cats held their positions. Whenever the ball came
near Davidson’s goal, the Davidson defense frustrat-
ed Duke’s attempts to gain control. Nineteen minutes
into the game, Duke took a wild shot; it went in. The
pace of the game picked up even more as the Cats
pushed to even it up. Five minutes before the end of
the first half, the momentum of the game was broken
when Duke sustained an injury. Davidson came on

strong again in the second half, but was never able to
put one in.

“Our offense was very aggressive,” explained
Mayes. “It was an evenly played game. I think their
goal was probably a dangerous play but that’s not
what the refs called. The ball came very close to Ca-
thy’s face (Cathy Morell plays goalie).”

Win over Wake

Davidson’s win over Wake Forest gave the Cats
second seed in North Carolina. Courtney Hall scored
first for Davidson. Wake tied it up before the end of
the half and that left it open for Crittenberger to score
Davidson’s winning goal in the second half. “Amy
has had some pain in her hip, but even after three re-
cent games she played strong. She has a lot of skill
and leadership.” Mayes added, “Cathy was playing
like gang busters. Usually when you’ve been out
you’re a little timid when you start playing again.
Cathy hasn’t been timid.”

After some long trips and hard games, Davidson
has some time to rest before the NCAIAW meet in
High Point on the 20". “We'll be réady,” says
Mayes.

vs. Wake Forest

Davidson will play Wake Forest at 1:00 on
Thursday afternoon at High Point. On Friday at
1:00, Davidson will play High Point.

Said Coach Dee Mayes, “Wake will be an

emotional game. We have to beat High Point to

g: to Regionals. We could use some support at
High Point. After all, we’re the defending state
champs.” .

Want to go? There’s a sign-up sheet.on the .
Union’s ‘Rides’ board, or call Jim Northrup at 1-
664-4157. We need drivers.

photo by Neil Cooksey ‘83

Pal

i Friday 23 Qctober-1961,

=

SMITH’S
- FLOWERS

302 Smith Cirlce
Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

23
