Coliseum Coney

Erskine and Wake teach j-ballers some

valuabe lessons on the road

Kenny Wilson called ita learning experience. If
that’s the case then experience drives a hard bargain —
two losses per lesson, to be exact. But in the second
loss (63—82 to Wake Forest) the Wildcat team learned
two fundamental things: how good they can be and
how bad they can be.

‘For ten minutes in Winston-Salem Tuesday night,
the team wearing red was the best team on the court.
Better than Wake Forest, whichis among the top fifty
teams in the nation. And Davidson still wasn’t as good
as it could have been.

The Cats won the opening jump, and the first two
buckets of the evening were theirs. They were playing
with confidence, taking outside jump shots and having
Jamie Hall wheel and deal his way past Jim Johnstone
for the inside points. They were running the offense
fairly well, and despite five early turn — overs, as the
clock ticked down to 10:00, the scoreboard read Vis-
itor 14, Home 13. Lesson,1: how good they can be.

Then it fell apart. “On our first eight possessions
we scored seven times. From possessions nine through
eighteen we had ten turnovers,” said Coach Hussey.
After those eight possessions, one turnover after anoth-
er led to one Deacon basket after another. Lesson 2:
how bad they can be.

The first two came on Alvis Rogers steals that he
took in for consecutive dunks. The jams brought the le-
thargic crowd to life, and although Rogers went down
with a bruise, his team rose up to score sixteen unans-
wered points. “It’s a mental thing with them,” said
Hussey.

.- A prime example came at the end of the half. With
0:25 left Wake had the ball. “We told them, ‘no shot,
block out hard.’ They had a mental lapse and the center
went up the middle uncontested.”

At halftime the question in the Davison fan’ s mind
was “How can we be winning 14-13 after ten minutes

and then finish down by 14 (24-38) at the half?” The —

answer lay in the stat sheet. Four rebounds, fifteen tur-
‘novers, but hold it — 68.8% from the field? They only
ishot 56.7%. Ah, but the shat
shots, we took 16.

count. They took 30 —

The second half was much the same lesson and
Wake’s press kept Davidson off an inside game. Post

-man Jamie Hall said, “Our guards were getting pres-
sure and I had to come out as a pressure release. That :

took me away from the inside. If I could have stayed in-
side I could have been more effective.”

The turnovers neutralized extremely effective
shooting as well. Cliff Tribus (14 pts.) was six for eight
from the field and Kenny Wilson (game high 18 pts.)
was 9-for-14. But the shot count (51-67) neutralized
that.

Give the Deacons their due, however. Even with-
out Rogers, who was out the rest of the game but is
ready to play Marquette on Saturday, Coach Carl Tacy
was able to keep pumping in new talent, and they wore
the Davidson players down. The Wildcats had four
players in the thirty minute zone (Hall peaked at 39).
The Demon Deacs had four players in the 20 minute
zone (Johnston peaked at 27). Davidson was a tired
team.

As if Wake Forest wasn’t lecture enough, Erskine
College had a few points to make for class as well. Se-
venty—four, in fact. Davidson could only counter with
65. “We didn’t execute well. Erskine played a tre-
mendous game. They played over their head,” com-
mented Hussey. The Wildcats were outplayed. Erskine
shot a phenomenal 61% from the field and outre-
bounded the Cats 39-25. Erskine was dedicating anew
coliseum to boot. “I never would have scheduled Ers-
kine down there. [Coach Hussey didn’t draw up this
year’s schedule.] That’s their NIT. [National Invita-
tional Tournament.] That was their season.”

So Coach Hussey and his still-young team add two
to the loss column credited to experience. And expe-
rience is a hard teacher. What, pray tell, was the les-

_ son?

According to Coach Hussey, “We’re trying to
teach them how to win. They’re trying not to lose. I
don’t know if they know how to win, but I do know

they want to win.”

Much of that lesson will come to test tonight, as the
Citadel takes over the homeroom court, the Mausole-
um, in the opening game of the First Union Holiday
Classic. It’s the first conference game, and the Citadel
is already rolling thanks to their freshman class. Kenny

. Wison feels the team is about ready to explode, and this

weekend may be the time and place. ~

Not in criticism of his: team, Hussey asks, “Are
they [the team] willing to pay the price? I think so. I of-
fer this to them as a challenge.”

By Steve Soud ’84.

Copeland House Gallery.

. CUSTOM FRAMING—ART SUPPLIES

16

128 S, Main Street

Gift Certificates -
for Christmas giving
as well as various

gift baskets —

*

Merry Christmas from
Natural Resources!

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981

Pre-medical students
Current undergraduate pre-medical students
may now compete for several hundred Air
Force scholarships. These scholarships are to
be awarded to students accepted into medi-
cal schools as freshmen or at the beginning
of their sophomore year. The scholarship
provides for tuition, books, lab fees, and
equipment, plus a $530 monthly allowance.
Investigate this financial. alternative to the
high cost of medical CRIA:

Contact:.
"(USAF Health Professions Recruiting
Suite GL-1, 1100 Navaho Drive
; Raleigh, NC 27609
Phone collect Weleaer tre

