ee ae om & PE TE ye oe

Davidson, ONC 28036028

Box 248

Thanks for buying

To the Editor:

For all you very special people who received red
carnations last weekend:

‘Please be sure and thank graciously the friends
that sent you your carnations. Their generosity sent

$89.00 to Muscular Dystrophy.
Thanks to all,
~ os ‘sent tes
Questions from alumna
. To the Editor:

. Greetings from CA! I graduated last year and am
getting a master’s degree in women’s studies from
San José State University. I’ ve been meaning to write
this letter for some time, so I will sitdown and write it
before I go for that bow] of Raisin Bran.

I often think about my experience at Davidson
and especially how it relates to my present course of
study. I realize now how most of us spend four years
of our lives at Davidson and never open our mouths
wide enough to ask any questions that could be consi-

- dered controversial.

One of my favorite bumper stickers out here
reads: Question Authority. I challenge all of you (stu-
dents, faculty and staff) to: QUESTION AUTHORI-
TY, ESPECIALLY IF IT’S PATRIARCHAL.

The following are questions that I challenge you -

to ask.

._ Why aren’t there-more women on the. Board of
Trustees? Why are there only two (my latest count)
’ women in high administrative offices? Why are stu-

dents scared of being labeled feminists? Why does

the history: department coritinue to use a textbook

which doesn’t even mention the names of Susan B.

Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton? Why has there

never been, a. woman president of the SGA? Why is _.

the leadership of DCF predominantly male? Why ar-
en't the more women pre-meds? Do students know

what the Human Life Amendment is? Is the Dean of -
Students’ office and the President’s office truly com-_
mitted to equality of the sexes and how do they dem-_.

onstrate that belief? What are the special Rees of mi-
nority women on campus?

Are the college’s secretaries. getting silk: what
they’re worth (known as comparable’ worth)? Do stu-

dents take advantage of the Women’s Center and feel

comfortable there? Why ‘ aren’t more women encour-
aged to apply for graduate fellowships? Why-do some
women Phi Beta Kappas end up being adminstrative
assistants? As women, why do you contribute to the

‘Southern: belle stereotype by being passive and...
sweet? Should T even bring up women's athletics? Es-~

_ pecially for the men: Why do you feel unreasonable
pressure to have a successful career? Why is the lead-

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981

Protest old South

ership and membership of the Y Student Service

Corps predominately female? Why do you dominate’
class discussions and frequently interrupt women?
Why are you afraid of forming close relationships
with women, of being vulnerable, of crying? Why do
you use humor (something I often encountered) when
confronted with the'serious issues of feminism?

As women and men at Davidson, how are you op-
pressed and-how do you oppress others?

If you’re ever near the “feminist capital of the
world”. (so-called ‘because of the high number of
women in high-offices including presidency of San
José State and the mayor’s office) please look me up.
Now for that Raisin Bran.

| Karen Hester 81
Corporate Relations
Committee

To the Editor:

After reading your editorial of last week (“The
Great Job Hunt”), L initially resolved to ignore the un-.

‘informed attack upon. the Corporate Relations Com-

mittee, feeling that Davidson students would recog-

nize it for what it was: shoddy journalism. Upon fur-

’ ther reflection, I determined that the members of my
committee deserved a defense.

Had you looked into the-matter in any depth, you

would have found that there exists a consensus from

_ all sides — my committee, the Trustees, and the ad-

ministration — that not only is Ken Wood’s work in
Life-Work Planning and Experiential Programming
valuable, but.that M" Wood is probably the most cap-
able man in North Carolina i in that field.

The senate*had merely expressed concern that a
strong job placement program was needed in addition
to a career development. program. Once again, I be-
lieve all sides reached a consensus that additional per-

sonnel was needed in the Careers Office, not to te-

_place’M‘ Wood, but to complement him. It should be
-noted that this proposal was welcomed by M’ Wood.

To suggest that such concern is opposed to “the very
principle of liberal education” is, of course; absurd.

Stuart B. Dorsett ’82

- Chairman,

SGA Corporate Relations Comm.

To thé Editor: ; ‘
Ansspite of our. territorial tsslation: we. at the Be
‘hemian’ Love Pad rémain concerned about events on

- campus. One such event is the regretable conflict~

over the. celebration of, Old South Day by the KA’s.

The most unfortunate aspect of the conflict was
that the widespread protest against that celebration
arose after the KA members were financially commit-
- ted to the event. Thus, many members that were sym-
pathetic with the protestors were also indignant and
frustrated by the late date at which the protest began.
They were trapped by the financial committment on
one side and questions of morality on the other — not
an appealing place to be.

We realize that there is a great deal of pain
wrapped up in this issue and would like to ignore its
existence. However, we feel:more pain will be felt if
we wait, once again, until commitments are made.
Therefore, we hope the KA leadership and the Black
Student Coalition leadership, as well as the rest of the
student body, will take a few moments to reflect on
the past conflict and decide what course of action will
be proper this year.

John M. Hartman, Jr. ’82
' Jeff Hamilton ’82

BSC on the wrong track?

To the Editor:

Allow us to begin by pointing out that we do not
wish to offend anyone, and offer sincere apologies to
those whose toes we may tread upon. We are merely
presenting an opinion, one that is subject to be
changed as well as criticized. We write on the subject
of the Black Student Coalition. My colleagues and I
feel that the motive behind the organization is ques-
tionable in merit. We Took upon it as a form of segre-

‘gation and (lacki ig. 8 bupheintam) discrimination.

We are quick to accede, lof course that the BSC is ba-
sically the same as any other political or religious
group. After all, the basis of group psychology is a’
shared similarity. We feel, however, that a group

_ Should not exploit a, similarity that is (we think) in-

consequential to the campus_as a whole. We are
aware, of course, that birds of a feather flock together
and (we beg your agreement) there is undeniable wis-
dom in sex-segregated dorms. We merely feel that if
a group chooses to distinguish itself, it should be on
the basis of something other than an issue that has
taken (and will take) years to resolve. .

We do.not mean to say that the BSC does not con-
tribute to the college(indeed we can think of no one
who does not contribute bopnettiing).. We sppland

. your activities,

Perhaps our. conception of the BSC is wrong. In

such a case we again apologize. We would enjoy (for

once) being wrong.

- Jayson P.M ock *84
sts ate oy
_James C. Carson IV 84
