New buildings

Sports complex and art facility next

on agenda in 1987 Program

Building a new sports complex and a new art facili-
ty are two of the next priorities of the College’s 1987
program. According to Vice President for Develop-
ment Jack Powers, his Department and College Presi-
dent Samuel Spencer are actively seeking donors to
fund these buildings. The College will not have defi-
nite plans for the buildings until it finds donors.

D‘ Powers said, ““We have several prospects of in-
dividuals who might give to the sports complex.” The
1987 program done five years ago, estimated that it
would cost somewhere around four million dollars to
build a multi-sport complex. Although plans are not far
enough along to say for sure, D' Powers éstimates the
cost today would be around five million dollars. The
Physical Plant made a model of what the complex
could look like in order to attract donors, and presented
it to the Parents’ Council last term. D' Powers said the
design of the complex could include a series of separate
units, or it could be an open facility similar to the Com-
mons. He said that an open facility would afford a view
of the whole complex from the entrance of the build-
ing, just as the Commons gives a view of its different
areas at a glance. He said the complex might be built in
phases as the Development Department raises money
for each particular area. More areas would be added as
more donors offered funds.

The complex would.be used for intercollegiate and

intramural activities as well as for recreation in gener- |
al.
The existing Johnston Gym was constructed about
33 years ago. At that time the student body numbered
850 and was all male. The College now has grown to
over 1300 students, including close to 500 women.
Locker room space is cramped because of the size

of the student body, and because there now must be fa-
cilities for women in Johnston Gym.

Also the pool is inadequate for competitive swim-
ming and diving meets. The Swim team holds its home
meets at UNC-Charlotte.

The new complex would solve these problems. D’ —

Powers stressed that although donors have much con-
trol over-design, “whatever is planned must be consist-
ent with the College program.”

D‘ Powers said that some facilities that might be in-
cluded in the complex are a floor for basketball and
volleyball, a pool, paddle-ball courts, dressing rooms,
indoor tennis courts, an indoor track and an area for
gymnastics.

D‘ Powers said the College would probably buiid

any new sports structures on the football practice fields
beyond the football stadium and next to the soccer
field.

D' Powers stated that both the sports complex and
the arts building “are broading influences as far as stu-
dents are concerned.” The sports complex would af-
ford better facilities for intramurals and relieve over-
crowding in Johnston Gym, and the arts building
would rélieve overcrowding in the Cunningham Fine
Arts building, as well as allowing for a more diver-
sified fine arts curriculum. The art building would not
be a large facility because it would only need to accom-
odate four staff members and 50:100 students. The

College is now looking for-a possible location for the -

new building. D'. Powers ruled out adding on the the
existing Cunningham Fine Arts building because ‘he

_ Said it would be impractical.

ing.

By Lorelei Kief’85

‘Director of Development Jack Powers heads the 1987
Program and will soon be raising funds for a new
-. sports complex and art.center.

College Bowl

\

Team sets sights for national championship

Davidson has “the nation’s strongest College Bowl
program,” College Bowl advisor Hansford Epes quot-
ed an official of the recent CBS radio tournament in
Chicago as saying. —

The team, composed of juniors Brad Mullis, Mar-
vin Overby, Gordon Turnbull, and sophomore John
Eglin, won matches against Berry College and‘Purdue

University... During: the first match, Davidson’s team
“fell behind badly” at first; but they “pulled it right:
out,” D’ Epes said. The team, playing for the first time:
as the College team:“‘showed they could handle them- .

selves in a match,” D! Epes added.
| The team’s ultimate goal is, of course, to win the

national tournament. There are two ways in which a
team may qualify for the nationals. One is to be the
champion of one of the 15 regions run through the col-
lege unions. The other ‘is to win three consecutive
matches at radio tournaments. The national commit-

tee, however, scheduled Davidson for only the lasttwo »

matches of the tournament: The team cannot afford to
go to the next tournament, which: is in California.

Beyond lack of funds, D’ Epes said'“‘It’s the principle:
of the thing” since he had asked the national committee
to not schedule only two matches for Davidson at the”
Chicago tournamemt. Nevertheless, D' Epes:is almost:

certain that Davidson will be eligible for the nationals

even if the team is not the regional champion. He said.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 4 December 1981

that last year the national committee needed to include
teams which had won only two consecutive matches in
order to fill ‘empty. slots in the national tournament.
This year’s team was selected through the intramu-
ral tournament and try-outs. During the intramurals the
faculty advisors and last year’s team chose about 30 in-

. dividuals to try out for the team along with any other in-

terested students. D‘ Epes'said that this year’s tourna-
ment was proportionately “the biggest intramual tour-
nament in the country.” About 12 percent of Davidson

~ students. played. College Bowl this fall. The College

Bowl. program is’ aponbones by the College Union. |

7 By Anne Goodwin "84,
