_ by Mark Elmore ‘82.

. “Best thing at losing be’
ae feeling when losing be e

Saudia the. Cats dropped’ a very important
game against Marshall 3.— 2 and lost sole possession
of second ‘place in the Southern Conference. Coach
Slagle admitted, “The team came out overconfident
and was scored upon twice before they started play-

ing.” Marshall’s first two goals were the results of ;

Davidson’s reckless:defensive passing, which gave
them easy shots from unstoppable distances.

Then Davidson answered. On a cornerkick play
near the end of the first half Hall Barnett eased a head-
er into the opposite corner and brought the team alive.
From that moment on, Davidson dominated the
match except for a textbook play by Marshall on
which they scored their third goal on a chip from their
wing to. their center forward who placed it out of
Greek’s leaping reach.

But again Davidson responded. On a chip from
Chucky: Price, Todd Lambert headed in the second
goal to put the Cats within one.

It'seemed as though we would win — the entire
crowd sensed it and watched the last fifteen minutes
on tiptoe: There were dozens of shots on Marshall’s
goal; there were four cornerkicks, headers, bloopers,
reams “and chips but, disappointingly, nothing went
in.

Victory agains UNCC
Considering the loss against Marshall, think

e

by John Hoots ’82

Senior Randy “Old Man” McManus turned in
his best performance yet this season, leading the DC
thinclads to an eleventh place finish in the North Ca-
rolina State meet. The “Old Man” toured the rough
Duke 5'4 mile course in a blistering 27:24, placing
him 23” overall. Indeed, Randy was no stranger to
the coyrse, having run a 28:11 in September against
Duke, which was an incredible r race as well, The next
four Wildcat finishers. came in less than one minute
apart, accounting for the success of the team. The
BLP speedster, Garry Sullivan and: The Fat One,
Frank Ivey worked together, passing several runners
in their final kick. Said Frank of the finish, “we just
blew by UNC’s eighth man at the finish, and probably
had ‘too much’ left.” Their times of 28:46 and 28:48
were an improvement over the Duke meet earlier this
season, and placed them 65" and 66" overall. Junior
Jack Smith and Senior Danny Armistead (also of
BLP) rounded our the top five Cat finishes in 29:19
and 29:45, Sophomore Jim ‘JT’ Trotters could be the
dark horse harrier this year. He has been improving

20

i >

—Confucius

how good it felt to outscore UNCC in Charlotte on
Tuesday: UNCC is a-much better team than Marshall.
Describing the ’49’ers, Terry Greiner ‘said, “their

skill level was very high and they were fast.” In fact
they dominated the game for the last twenty-five min-
utes and outshot the Cats 17 to 7. But, the object in a
soccer match is to score goals, and they failed to score

_more than 1. Why? Because Davidson played excel-

lent team defense and rejected everything the ’49’ers
attempted to force by.

steadily all year and bettered his time on the Duke
course by almost a minute,-placing 6" for Davidson
in Saturday’s meet.

_Attention now focuses on tomorrow’s meet with

the Citadel and UNC - Wilmington on the fast Co-

burg Dairy Course in Charleston, South Carolina, as
everybody will be looking for PIL’s on the flat, vast

-10K course. The cinderheads ‘are alway tough at

home, in fact they’re probably like to beat us.almost
as much as we'd like to beat them.

The Lady Cats also competed in the NC State

- meet on Saturday, inthe AIAW Women’s Division at _
' Duke. And they mopped up. Junior Marian Hill

(20:47) and freshman Sarah Patterson (20:48) paced

-the: DC girls to a 4" place finish, finishing 23" and:

25™ overall. Only Chapel Hill, NC State, and Wake
Forest were better. Marian said of the race, “I went
out fast and pushed hard the whole race.._I wasn t
aware that Sarah was that close until ‘the finish.”

Yes indeed, Sarah Patterson was right on Mari-

Todd Lambert scored twice in the first half and

Freshman Dave Flowers. in the second to secure the
‘win.

UNCC’s other losses have been only to teams in
the top 10.in the North and South, including Alabama
A&M and Hartwick who made it to the final four last
year, so this win should boost Davidson emotionally
and ready them for their battle against more Cadets on
Saturday. This time against those rambunctious boys
from VMI.

ans’s heels, but so was the rest of the team as the
whole top 5 finished less than 30 seconds apart, Se-
nior Carie Nunn, finishing 3™ for the girls in 21:08,

was simply amazing, despite training less than ten

miles in the previous week’s practice. Freshman Jean
Webb ran an outstanding race, finishing fourth for
Davidson in 21:13, almost two minutes faster than
her previous time at Duke. She is running very well in
practice and ‘is a definite “shoe-in” for the regional

‘meet on. November 7:

Finishing our the top five was Tamara Foreman,
her relatively low finish due mostly to the fact that ev-

~ eryone else had a super race. Tamera’s inconsistency

this season stems primarily from a small distance
base over the summer. She is: capable of running
number one.at any time, and should be in contention
for top honors in the regional meet. In fact, any one of
the girls in the top five is capable of placing first,

. which is what inakes the Lady Cats so awesome this

fall.
The girls travel to the Citadel this weekend with

‘the men’s team and take on UNC - Wilmington’ s

women’ s team in a dual. meet.

DAVIDSONIAN/ Friday 22.Qetober 1981 :
