-May 1, 1981—The Davidsonian— 11'

(continued from page 1)
was at an away match. Athletic Director Gene
Bingham was out of town.
- . After Couch talked to tennis coach Jeff Frank, the
women’s team received permission to use the courts.
but, according to Stanback, ‘‘Coach Miller decided she
didn’t want the courts as a one-time favor.”

Junior Emmy Knobloch said team members. then
drew up a list of suggestions which, in Bingham’s
absence, they showed to College President Samuel
Spencer. ‘‘Pat Miller had no knowledge of our meeting

_ with Spencer until it was over,’”’ Knobloch added.

Spencer ‘‘notified Bingham that something should be
done but so far no policy has been set. . .We’ve played
matches on the upper courts but we haven’t heard
anything back from Bingham (about court policy) yet,”
Knobloch added.

Spencer said, ‘‘I asked Bingham to give the matter
priority and develop a plan to get to complete equality.
I suggested that everyone involved, Pat Miller, Jeff
Frank and Mr. Bingham, be in on the decision.”

Knobloch said she realizes some of the things the
team requested will take time. For example, they would
like to have dressing rooms comparable to those in the
men’s tennis house. She thinks, however, that ‘‘some of
the things, like moving the bleachers, improving the
courts and giving us trash cans could have been done
by now.”

Bingham said he is working on a plan for use of the
courts. He also said the department is trying to add a
tennis house for the women, although there are’no
definite plans.

The basketball and field hockey teams reported no
problems with their facilities.

‘Publicity

Women athletes also feel they do not receive enough
publicity.

Owen attributed this problem to understaffing in the
College Sports Information Office as well as to the fact
that women’s athletics do not attract as much interest
as men’s.

“Having a women’s athletic director would help,”
Owen added.

Sports Information Director Emil Parker said, ‘‘Give
me the help and the money and I can get publicity...”
The public is still less receptive to women’ sports, than
to men’s, he explained. ‘‘In order to get a women’s
story in the paper, I have to spend twice as much time
to get the story in as I would on a story about a male
athlete.’”’

Parker admitted that women’s sports and minor
sports don’t get the attention from the information
office that football and men’s basketball do. ‘‘I’d be
lying if I said I don’t divide my time that way,’’ Parker
said. ‘‘My allocation of money and time goes to football
and basketball first, because my returns are greater
there.’’ .

Last year’s athletic evaluation committee also
emphasized the importance of increasing the visibility
of women’s sports. .

Stanback reported a difference in the coverage of
men’s and women’s sports in The Davidsonian. ‘‘This
may seem picky, but you start looking for it after a
while. The men get more pictures and larger articles.
We have a 16-2 record. They are on the first sports page
and we’re usually on the second.”

Recruiting

Women athletes—as well as other minor sports
athletes—are concerned about their ability to recruit
good players.

Bingham and the Athletic Advisory Council are now
proposing that the College give scholarships in

women’s basketball beginning next fall. The award -

would be the equivalent of one full scholarship, divided
up at the coach’s discretion. The proposal must be
passed by the Board of Trustees.

Last year, each minor sports team received $92 for
recruiting, which is used for postage and telephone
bills. According to Coach Pat Miller, the teams
received approximately $650 four years ago. ‘‘It’s been
chopped down every year,” Miller said.

Bingham said he recognizes that the recruiting
budgets are inadequate and plans to increase all minor
sports’ recruiting budgets. The women’s basketball
recruiting budget will increase to $500.: -

The men’s basketbal recruiting budget, including
preseason and films, is $65,920.

Some of the athletes wondered where the increases in
the recruiting budget would come from.

Bingham said the Athletic Department is trying to
raise the money from gifts to the Wildcat Club.
Assistant Athletic Director Tom Couch said that unless
the money comes from the Wildcat Club, it will have to
come from within the existing women’s basketball
budget.

Women’s Athletics Focus

Budget

Women’s sports cost the College $77,331, or 9% of
the $894,683 net expense of the athletic budget last
year. The athletic department declined to release the
breakdown by individual sport.

Varsity vs. Club Teams

Another problem affecting women’s athletics is the
inconsistent levels of interest. The track team, for
example, excited a great deal of interest when it was
formed two years ago. Currently, there ‘is a signi-
ficantly larger number of women playing club soccer
than running track.

Both students and faculty recognize that the problem
exists. Advisory Council member and Political Science
Professor Louis Ortmayer said there must be more of a
commitment in order to encourage more consistent
interest. ‘‘Part of the burden lies on the student, part
lies on the program,” Ortmayer said. ‘‘It’s hard for the
students to. make a commitment for a three meet
schedule. We must have competition.”

Advisory Council Chairman History Professor David
Shi believes that the problem stems from the small
number of women students. Fluctuating interest is
“difficult to handle in, terms of staffing and budget,”
Shi added.

Owen agreed that the department must support
existing programs. ‘‘The ideal thing is to go out on a
limb and say when we start a sport, we will support it.
This would involve trying to use alumni and sources to
get athletes. This could be beneficial for both male and
female teams,’’ Owen said.

Women’s Athletic Director

Another area. of the women’s concern lies in the
absence of a designated coordinator of women’s
athletics. Miller held this position until she resigned
earlier this year.

The women feel the job of women’s co-ordinator of
athletics could be important since Davidson must

decide if it will stay in the Association of Intercollegiate
Athletics for Women (AIAW) or join the National
Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA).

Couch said the College has until 1985 to make the
decision.

Owen said the new assistant director’s position
would be comparable to the positions Couch and Martin
now hold. ‘‘Mr. Bingham said Couch and Martin work
16 to 17 hours a day,’”’ Owen said. ‘‘A women’s athletic
director could take over other athletic duties so that the
other two men wouldn’t be overworked.”’

Knobloch said there is a definite need for a women’s
full-time or assistant athletic director. ‘‘There’s a lot of
forms and paperwork that gets shoved around because
no one is in that capacity,’’ Knobloch said.

Conclusion

How fast is the College moving to improve athletics
for women students?

Knobloch, a junior, said she has seen very little
change since she has been here. ‘‘We’ve added a spring
training trip to Florida but it doesn’t cost the College
anything,” she said.

Stanback also cited very little change. But she said
team quality and publicity have improved.

The College should improve the women’s athletics
program because it is the right thing to do, Spencer
said, not simply to conform to federal regulations under
Title IX for proportional spending for men and women.

“We must move rapidly because we haven’t moved
fast enough,’’ Spencer said.

Shi, however, said he has seen significant improve-
ment in the program.

“The turbulence in the department has caused some
unexpected and necessary delays. Overall, the program
has improved, but right now, it isn’t where we want it
to be ideally. We want to improve the program without
sacrificing the men’s programs,’’ he concluded.

fi ee,

WOODY ALLEN
DIANE KEATON
MICHAEL MURPHY
MAMRIEL HEMINGWAY
MERYL STREEP

ANNE BYRNE

win

MANHATTAN’ GEORGE GERSHWIN
A JACK ROLLINS CHARLES H JOFFE case

1 oy

FS ure Arnis Con he gat senerves
_———————_

United Artete [R) ~~:

Pop Films presents

WOODY ALLEN >» MARSHALL BRICKMAN WOODY ALLEN
Saaced by 7 Feo ne PoOce ecto J rorogany,
CHATLES H JOFFE ROBERT GREENHUT GORDON WILLIS

“People are often nervous when
‘they come to Planned Parenthood.
They shouldn't be. We're just regular
people, and we try to make
.everyone feel comfortable. We want
you to come back and bring your
friends.’

Connie Brown,
Receptionist

Low Cost and Confidential
Birth Control
Pregnancy Testing

Saturday May 2

Return of the Pink Panther \G)

71:00 only
Admission: $1.50 or season pass

Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Abortion Services

“COME TO
PLANNED PARENTHOOD
BEFORE’

Tt Det

Vey"

BLACK RING ANG
‘AFNIR HAVE DESTROYED CATE AT weewT, ARCHIE rs
TA

aS!\ BILL APPLETON, SLENALS, PANEL @ 7, "80

