_ Study of foreign cultures promotes global, personal understanding

Tom Pafford ‘83

A heated discussion arose at a recent
faculty meeting—a controversy dealing
with the status of non-western studies at
Davidson. I don’t know exactly what
was said, or who fomented the discus-
sion. What really concerns me is not the
particulars of the issue raised at the

meeting, but the possibility of attitudes -

which are not amenable to the study of
human cultures which evolve by values
very different from those prevalent in
Western society. Do people fear that
students will question some inveterate
ideals?

I do not support any proposal to re-
quire a course in South Asian, Asian, or
any other non-western studies. Al-
though required courses are not neces-
sarily pernicious, our education is con-
strained enough already.

On the visceral level, the question
goes beyond obvious curriculum; it con-
cerns culture and the place of education.
As a culture flourishes, proficient minds
will ask questions which go beyond those
which are normally sanctioned; likewise,

the environment changes as more de-

mands are placed upon it. Minds and the.

environment tug at the notions and

. ideals which have stably moored the

society. Here the role of education
enters. If education is only the accum-
ulation of facts upon unexamined pre-
misses, the evolutionary transition may

be convulsive, and people may heed-

raving apocalypticists as these secure
beliefs are shaken. However, if education
includes the study of. intricate relation-
ships between a culture’s customs and
environment, conparing the way differ-
ent societies have handled the various
problems of their environment may give
insight to one’s own problems. By real-
izing the malleability of customs, people
can lead society into new compatability
with its environment.

There is a necessity for schools to have
educational goals; though I don’t like to
admit it. I would rather see people follow
their own circumspect academic inter-
ests, and they. can guide by their re-

seem like such a nebulous concept, un-
derstood by men with thick glasses and
dusty offices, given to metaphysical
speculation.

Yet values are not an uncommon fac-
tor in our life. The college trustees value
good basketball teams, ergo they have
imposed certain athletic goals on the
community. The Humanities program
values studying the development of
Western thought; professors and stu-
dents pursue this goal by using a specific
method to analyze the material present-
ed. (The same material presented in a

different course could be examined in a

very different way with different re-
sults.) _

What is Davidson College’s approach
to education? I sometimes wonder if the
school wants to prepare students to
climb a steadfast ladder to the afterlife.
We must realize that our environment is
changing. I have not yet met a black
professor, nor a Buddhist, nor an athiest
here; but these people have a major
effect within our society. What do we

consent to when we pledge our loyalty to
the honor code and to Christian ideals on
the application form? Examination of
this question does not mean wholesale
repudiation of those ideals, but the
steadfast ladder need not presuppose a
static culture.

I suggest that Davidson place more
value on receptivity. Eastern and third-
world countries are looking to the
West for cooperation. As well as
receiving from us, these cultures offer us
examples of different preconceptions
that will change our mental environment
as exchange increases. People are needed
who can create a pseudo-culture—a
middle ground of understanding through
which the stadgy antagonists on either
side can communicate. The Iran debacle
is an example of a situation where our
methods of negotiating were senseless to
the other side. Perhaps Davidson can

help sensitize students to the needs of

transition. But, I fear that an attempt to
preserve customs will thwart that sin-
gular task.

EPC’s work was not in vain

Elizabeth Medlin ‘81 & Bill Purcell ‘82 -

In their meeting last week,
the faculty indefinitely post-
poned consideration of the pro-
posal worked out by the Educa-
tional Policy Committee for
revising the core curriculum.
We, as the EPC’s student
members, would like to express
how we view the proposal in
retrospect. What exactly was
the proposal in its final form?
What were the reasons for
suspending its consideration?
What changes may—and
should—ensue now? .

We did favor the EPC’s
proposal after the removal of
the requirement for a fourth
term of a foreign language. The
idea of putting more substance
behind Davidson's claim that it
offers a good liberal arts educa-
tion, as well as the hope of
giving underclassmen a com-
mon core of knowledge to take
to advanced courses, appealed
to us. We foresaw little effect on
teaching loads because many
students already take ‘‘basic”
courses to satisfy area require-
ments and because there would
have been no change in the
overall number of requirements.
Nor did we see major changes in
registration besides some in-
creased continuity and ra-
tionale.

Then why was consideration
of the proposals postponed in-
definitely? The most obvious
reason is tt the innumerable
fauclty meetings devoted to

EPC, while they generated -

much-needed discussion, even-
tually brought forth an array of
amendments which altered tha
nature of the proposal. Becuase
of the amendments, the discus-
sions became tedious and began
to confuse issues and to ignore
the main points of the original
proposal.

The motion: ‘to postpone con-

comes columns:on any sub-
| ject. Call Opinions Editor

, The Davidsonian wel- |. .

James Barrat { -6257| f inter-

ested.

sideration did some unexpected- ~

ly early, but not antagonistical-
ly by any means. An important
part of the motion for suspen-
sion was a thank you for the
committee’s work and its suc-
cess in, generating serious con-
sideration of the present curri-
culum. Curriculum review, the
motion emphasized, does not
necessarily lead to change but
can confirm that what you have
works.

Most important to us is the
fact that the proposal has
inspired extensive examination
of the curriculum—the goals it
should be achieving as well as
its successes or failures in
achieving its goals. We hope
this examination, even it if did
not lead to core curricular
change, will lead to improve-
ments on an ad hoc basis within
departments. For example, the
foreign language departments
are considering some significant
changes now. We hope these
will ensure that students will
come out of the program with a
higher level of competency.
Also, other departments are
reconsidering the range and
content of courses which satisfy
area requirements. We hope
they will narrow the range of
courses which satisfy require-
ments and will ensure that these
courses give students a broad
exposure to the subject matter.
Every basic course can’t cover
its disciplines content, history,
and methodology, but depart-
ments should be conscious of
this as their goal. Such con-
siderations are a ‘positive ac-
complishment regardless of
whether the proposal passed.

Finally, we would like to
thank those students who did

express their opinions. We ap- .

preciated. all comments on the
proposal, whether. positive, ne-

. gative, or indifferent. ‘We both .
hope: that anyone who. is con-—

cerned .about a matter which

‘involves ‘the EPC. will ‘not .

hesitate to talk to'us.:‘We want

and need your questions, criti- ae

cisms, and suggestions.

quirements and values. Values, though,

BloLwoGy fol

MATING WABIIS OF

ANATOMICAL. STRUCTURAL ODDITIES
CE BUROPEAN PERUVIAN
PARASITIC HuMMG § BIRDS

And now, ,, 10 supplement Mr. Darwin's theory, let's tum to Genesis, first chapter. Bow your heads. .

Moral Majority stands for decency, privacy

Tnpp Robinson ‘83

For the past three months, hardly a day has
passed without the appearance of some type or
editorial or cartoon attacking or ridiculing the
Moral Majority. This article is written to remove
some of the gross misconceptions which many
people may have about it, explain its nature, and
defend its right to exist and participate in the
American political process. Without this, I fear
that ideas already circulating in the liberal media
may become permanently embedded in some
people’s minds.

In the first place, the Moral Majority was
founded in 1979, not to take over the country or
help defeat liberal Democratic Senators (no
matter its expertise in this latter task), but
because its organizers felt that a majority of
decent Americans were sick and tired of having
the values which they cherished rejected, and in
many cases, reversed by the actions of the federal
government. It was not the Moral Majority which
outlawed prayer in the public schools in 1963. It
was not the Moral Majority that in 1972 decided
that it was all right to murder defenseless, unborn
children. It was not the Moral Majority that in
the mid-1970’s gave credibility to homosexuality
as an alternative lifestyle, and worked for special
legislation and court rulings to provide civil
rights protection for those indulging in homo-
sexual behaviour. Elements that compose the
Moral Majority include fundamentalists, Pro-
testants, Roman Catholics, Jews, Mormons, and
people who have no particular réligious conviction
at all but believe in the moral principles espoused

by the Moral Majority.

Some people are repulsed because they feel that

the Moral Majority is attempting to force their"
values. on: them. ‘This :idea: must ‘be rejected. .
Powerful as the Moral Majority may have been in.
‘the last election; they were not working to

convince ‘people who did-not -already agree with

their principles, but were only mobilizing people
“who agreed with.their views but had previously
been indifferent to politics. Thus, Moral Majority .
became a raft to which they could cling to. and as:

it grew, a fulcrum to oust governmental officials
who were destroying programs that were valuable
to them. James Hitchcock in his article ‘‘Is Life A
Spectator Sport,’’ states that, ‘‘Moral conserva-
tism can probably be defined as a view of society
based on the sanctity of the family, and seeks to
preserve a state of stable social relations, clearly
defined moral duties, and privacy.”’ This stress
on privacy has been the major reason why these
moral majoritarians have been indifferent to
politics, because they regard life as being most
meaningful in its private aspects. Now they
regard their positions as threatened by the liberal
activists who have worked in the political realm,
and recognize that they too must become
involved in politics to protect their rights and
defend their values. .

- The standard criticism directed against the
Moral Majority is that the Constitution explicity
calls for a separation of church and state. There is
a lot of hypocrisy here. Preachers, churches, and
religious bodies have been actively engaged in
American politics throughout this nation’s his-
tory, especially during the 1960’s and 1970’s in
the civil rights and antiwar movements. The
American Rabbinate has lobbied overtly on
behalf of Israel for over three decades. The
Catholic hierarchy has been a political force of
immense influence. But when Jerry Falwell gets
involved, everyone screams that he is violating
the separation of church and state. The First
Amendment was written not to protect the
people and their laws from religious values but to
protect those values from governmental tyranny.

‘Indeed, the majority of the American colonists

fled persecuting governments in order .to gain

- religious ‘freedom. The American people must be
willing to fight to the-death for the right. of every
~ American to participate in the’ political process.
. The Virginia ACLU recently endorsed the right of
the Moral Majority. to do what they are ‘doing.
The First Amendment guarantees this right to all
Stetina and: ft tabaske to, the survival of Oi

American republic.
