wy

Lo & & Sia aes

Componle elie: Siler cheeles Carreers’ oroareas:

The college brought in a team to evaluate the Ca-
reer, Offices Job Placement Program on Wednesday
21 October. The team consisted of the Director of
Placement at UNC — Greensboro, Richard Harwood
and the Director of Personnel at First Union Bank,
David M‘Clintock (’70).

Careers. Office Director Ken Wood rins the Job
Placement program and also provides Career Explo-
ration and Experiential Learning programs.

In recognition of the fact that fewer Davidson stu-
dents are entering graduate school immediately but
are, instead, entering the job market, SGA Corporate
Relations Committee (CRC) chairman Stuart Dorsett
commented, “..:.in the past there hasn’t been much
emphasis on placement and as a result a lot of stu-
dents feel the Placement Program is deficient.” Ac-

cording toa Davidsonian survey last spring, 50 per--
cent of the senior class planned to go to graduate -

school this year, and 33 percent planned to go directly
on to a job.

College President Samuel Spencer, Dean of Stu-
dents Will Terry, and the Trustee Student Life Com-
mittee were also responsible for the evaluation.

M’ Wood sees the evaluation as “a response to

some members of the Trustees who feel that we .

should have a more full-blown traditional placement
program.”

Dean Terry declined to name any specific Trus-
tees who requested the evaluation and said that the
“SGA as much as any” made the request.

The committee’s evaluation
In evaluating the Placement Program, M‘ M°Clin-
tock and M‘ Harwood examined Placement Program
material from M' Wood’s office, talked with M"
Wood and his secretary, Susie Summers, met with a
group of students in the Job Placement Program, and

the met with SGA President Chip Legerton and’

Stuart; At the Trustee meeting Friday, 23 October,

Dean Terty offered a summary of the evaluation: He
reports a need to consider “increasing the number of ’
companies coming to campus and the variety of com- =

panies coming to campus.”

The evaluation team will submit their recommen-
dations to Dean Terry next week. He will pass them’ «
on to’President Spencer. The CRC has proposed that .
the college hire additional” personnel . specifically a
qualified in the job placement phase of the Careers
Office: As of 14 January 1981 the Careers Office had
contacted “about eighty newly selected corporations e
‘in an attempt to work with the SGA towards recruit:

"ing corporate recruiters.” M' Wood was able to attract

two of these companies to recruit at Davidson.

The recruitment problem

_ Companies that did hot agreé to send recruiters to ae
. the college told M" Wood that sending-recruiters to 4
Davidson is not, cost-effective in comparison to the
large universities, and that there have beén “hiring
jobs that have traditionally.“
. Priority,
is generally being given to schools which can provide A
graduates with technical backgrounds | for production’

cut- backs in'the kind of
been filled by people: from the liberal arts...

oles.” M". Wood ‘said the Companies also told him

that since, “unlike ‘many ‘other liberal arts colleges,

~ and limited computer courses” their recruiting efforts. .\
are. hampered, and many ‘eompanies are. in * "a hold- |
position in respect to new hires Loca ote ala

economy, ..

Bo eet

Dean Tonya also 0 aid that the evaluation team’ ams _—

response to the Experiential Program was “exceed-
ingly positive.”

Stuart Dorsett’s meeting with the Trustee Student
Life Committee, chaired by M‘ James Dorsett, fo-
cused on answering questions about the CRC’s sur-
vey of 64 of last year’s seniors who went through the
Placement Program. Stuart said more than 80 percent
responded, but that they showed “ a lack of positive
response.’

Dean Terry describes the Job Plcement Program
as a: “brokerage operation by which a ‘corporation’
with a need could be matched with a prospective stu-
dent employee that had the skills ‘and ability to do the
job.” Interviewed on the dayof the evaluation’ M‘
Wood said, “I think we need to be clear about whose
reponsibility it is to get a job.” He added, “It seems to
me that our major task is to work with students as they

equip themselves ‘for ‘managing the job hunt them--

selves.”

Stuart formed the CRC during the spring ’81 to

associate the Plcement Program with Corporate
Development, which attracts company financial sup-
port for the College.

Ken Wood explained his programs’ philosophy
saying, “It’s a difficult thing for students to see that
there’s a relationship between learning and living.
Education is not off here in a bag somewhere and my
life is over here. It seems to me that while we’re in
school some attention needs to be paid to ‘Who am I?’
“Where am I going with my life?’ and that our pro-
gram is uniquely designed to deal with those ques-
tions and to support students as they engage in that
kind of inquiry and activity.”

The present list of companies scheduled to recruit
on campus includes: Xerox Corporation, two military

Services, Wachovia Bank and Trust, and Bojangles.

By John Verdi ’83, Tricia Drake.’85, and Sue Bled-
soe 82. ,

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981 _
