THE DAVIDSONIAN
A Discriminating College

“When are they going to stop saying ‘We just went coed’?!"

Women students first enrolled at Davidson a decade ago. Now
they ate, as a rule, treated as equals in nearly all areas of college
life. Admissions and athletics are the glaring exceptions to this
rule.

The 2 to 1 male/female admissions ratio dictated by the Board of
Trustees demonstrates more than a commitment to protecting the
College from the necessity of making more dormitories coeduca-
tional or the football team from losing a few members. It certainly
means more than an unnecessary codification of the current ratio of
applicants, especially since more than one third of the applicants to
the Class of 1985 were women. It hopefully does not mean the
College is 1)basing its admissions criteria on expectations of who
will be more generous in alumni giving 20 years from now, and 2)
assuming women give less because women in the generation before
ours are paid less and hence give less to their alma maters.

The 2 to 1 ratio is simply an acknowledgement that the College
does not accept women on equal terms with men. The policy says
it is fine to have women on campus up to a point. Beyond that point
they threaten the foundations of the Davidson tradition.

‘In athletics, five women’s sports received 77,331 last year—9%
of the net athletic budget. Coach Dee Dee Mayes handled
overlapping field hockey and basketball seasons, both as head
coach. The women’s basketball team had a recruiting budget of
$92; the men’s hasketball team received $65,920. Davidson has

talented women athletes, as this year’s stellar field hockey and
tennis seasons demonstrate. They deserve more than second-best
facilities and minimal funding.

Obviously the Athletic Department is operating with a lean
budget. But many of the changes women athletes want—use of
facilities, publicity, scheduling — will take little or no extra funds.
And those changes that do require additional expenditures should
be given top priority in budget decisions; fledgling, malnourished
budgets need help first.

This week, Professor Robert Maydole’s petition to adopt a
merit-based admissions policy and the women athletes’ recom-
mendations for more rapid growth in the women’s athletic program
were encouraging indications that more people are refusing the
status quo justification for unjust policies.

Bravo to the 55 faculty members who signed the petition. We
hope the Board of Trustees will be able to consider both the
admissions and athletics proposals and that they will have the
foresight to support them.

Both Sides Now

Issues have a peculiar way of blossoming suddenly into public
view. A few weeks ago the Kappa Alpha fraternity’s Old South
weekend was a matter for mild discussion. Any resentment Black
students felt toward the fraternity’s Confederate uniform parade
was kept below the surface. Now there are red ribbons of protest
eveywhere.

What is remarkable about the Black Student Coalition’s protest
is its amicability. Despite the potential bitterness of the issue, both
sides have thus far maintained a firm but unhostile tone. In fact,
they are, for perhaps the first time, talking to each other.

This is important because it provides a new interpretation of
‘what is happening between the BSC and the KA’s. They are waking
up to each other’s sensitivities (of being Black, of being a Southern
White gentleman) and, simultaneously, also getting a closer grasp
of their.own identity. That is, BSC members must try to confront
the Southern tradition and evaluate it in a new context, divorced
from its economic substructure of slavery. They must also deal
with being more forcefully and politically Black than ever before.
KA members, on the other hand, must confront the realities of
racial oppression and its effects and then try to define more clearly
the true Southern values they celebrate.

We hope people will not view The Old South protest as a mere
confrontation. Ultimately the issue is not the propriety of a festive
weekend, nor even race or ethnic pride. It is the beginning of a
dialogue betweentwo previously estranged groups. Both sides can
learn a great deal from each other.

- Our Excuse

We hate being late. It is utterly demoralizing for Davidsonian
staff members to face their friends at dinner Thursday night and
field the inevitable question, ‘‘Well, why isn’t the paper out?

Well, our typesetter (a cantankerous brute with a nose for 1:30]
Thursday afternoons) broke down just long enough to prevent us

‘from getting the Davidsonian to you‘on time.
We apologizé for the delay. Many thanks to Communications
Director John Slater, who helped pull us through by offering us the
_ use of his machine; Julie Gibert, Bun Walter, and especially Karen
Sandlin, faithful typists during the crisis, and Dave Banks,
repairman extraordinaire.

—Elizabeth Kiss

j

The Campus Forum

Ah, hedonism!

To the Editor:

Very often in our work-filled
days at Davidson, we find little
time to just stop, take a break,
and spend some time with the
people around us. This past
Saturday we had that chance.
Sherburne Laughlin and her
SGA sidekicks put their crea-
tive minds tegether and came
up with ‘‘Saturnalia’’—a day
filled with sailing, volleyball,
sunning, drinking, and general
“taking it easy.”’

We want to thank those
individuals that put a lot of
effort into the day. It truly was
a great day and we only hope
that those who missed it will get
another chance in the future to
experience it.

David Carpenter ’83
’ David Shoemaker ’83
Chris Tiernan ’83

Generosity

To the Davidson Community:

By now you have probably
forgotten your spare change or
extra dollars that went to the
“Y”’ Christmas Fund, but here
in Africa the impact of your
generosity continues to be felt
by at least 2,000 people in the
Western Province of Kenya.

In Kimobo, on Mt. Elgon,
Davidson money is helping to
finance a water project which
will bring better health and
easier lives to people who each
night listen to the gunfire of the
Ugandan civil war and by day
share what little they have with
the refugees escaping the vio-
lence across the border.

At Bushiangala Secondary
School, where Davidson volun-
teers have taught since 1976,
the Christmas fund is helping to
build the school’s first library.
Such aid has allowed Bushian-
gala to reach its goal in 1981 of
becoming a government-main:

tained school: Two other much —
younger secondary schools in |

remote aréas are also ‘-bene-

fitting from Davidson gifts,

which purchased. much-needed
lab equipment at Shikokho and
Eshinutsa Schools. ,

The thanks of all the people .

connected with these places,
and especially of those students

who, without Davidson aid,
could not pay the fees to attend
school, are all meant to be
contained in this message I was
asked to write on behalf of
many boards of governors, par-
ents associations, community
development societies, students
and individuals. Needless to
say, dollars still go very far in
the developing world. As one
mother said when she saw all
the new books, ‘‘These people
must be very good. Tell them
we are happy.’’ Thank you all
for your generous gifts.
Andy Miller ’80
Kahamega, Kenya

Beard cuts —

To the Editor:

One does not know where to
begin when analyzing Mr.
Bowie’s opinion on Reagano-
mics (‘‘Davidson rich kids cele-
brate Reaganomics”’ in the
April 24 Davidsonian). While I
have some reservations about
President Reagan’s overall pro-

- gram for economic recovery, I

do think the underlying reason-
ing is sound and wish to take
Mr. Bowie to task on several
points, including the tax cuts,
use of the money supply, and
stiffer anti-trust/regulatory
policies.

First, the across-the-board
tax cuts may be inflationary
initially, but one can under-
stand the rationale behind the
cuts by considering several
things. Granted, the cuts will
benefit the wealthy, but they
will also lessen the burden on
the worker by increasing an
already declining real income.
Until now wages have risen
with prices in order to protect
some purchasing power. With a
rising wage, however, the nom-
inal incomes rises, putting the

proportion of his income in
taxes. The result is that the real
income of the worker falls. He
loses purchasing power due to
the tax system.

Second, Mr. Bowie claims
that President Reagan will re-
sort to using ‘‘the money supply
as his major economic tool.”
The Federal Reserve, an agency
independent of the Executive
Branch, controls the money
supply, not the President. Mon-
etary policy is outside the direct
control of the President. Fur-
thermore, to lower interest
rates, as Mr. Bowie recom-
mends, the Federal Reserve
must increase the money sup-
ply. If tax cuts are going to be
inflationary, imagine what will
happen when the money supply
increases. .

Finally, a proposition to
trust-bust or regulate those:
industries that can fix prices is
acontrary to both our general
political and economic philoso-
phies of freedom and free enter-
prise. If the government were to
regulate industries, it would
add more administrative and
bureaucratic nightmares to an
already large governmental
complex which many believe to
be a major cause of inflation.
Furthermore, intervention in
the form of regulating indus-
tries distorts the price mechan-
ism that is so essential to an
efficient distribution of re-
sources. By trust-busting oli-
gopolies, the price will be paid
by the consumer at the’ cash
register. Some industries are
well suited for oligopoly due to
the initial capital investment
and the high overhead costs.
While smaller business units are
desirable, the cost to the con-
sumer may be higher prices in
the market. He already has
enough problems. There is no
need to make him pay more by
implementing a plan to create a

taxpayer ina higher tax bracket more ‘competitive’ system.
and causinghimtopayahigher Peter Beard '82
ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN
Editors :
TIM WHALEN MARK BARRETT
News Executive editor
GLENN KELLUM, JOHN KROTCHKO JEFF MANN
$ editors Managing editor
JAMES BARRAT _ : DAVID MCCURRY
DANNY ARMISTEAD DAVID MGCURRY
Cogito ergo sum editor Business
JIM CROWE WARREN LACKEY
~ IVY GOODMAN SCOT MYERS ‘
_ Back page editor Circulatiort manager
MARGARET JACKSON, Production manager. @ . ANNE GOODWIN . Assistant

features editor
POWERS, LAURIE SOPER, CARTER VEST.

@ FRANCES PALMER, Assistant news editor © MARY
BARRINGER, FRED BROADWELL, BETHIFINDLAY, JAMES MOORE,

WOMBLE
SCOTT

Graphics assistants @ ELIZABETH BRAZELL,
LISA BUCKLEY, JEFF DEMPSEY, JULIE GIBERT, DAVID PRETTYMAN, KAREN SANDLIN,
BERNADETTE WALTER, Production associates @ BILL APPLETON, JIM RUMLEY, Staff
artists @ SALLY NEAL, MARK SHEFFIELD, Darkroom WOOF technicians @ DAVE BANKS, Nihil @

