‘The new computer Davidson’ S system compares favorably ( >

by Jeffrey Mann ‘84. /

Although the fledgling Davidson College com-
puter center is barely ‘settled into its new home, a
quick survey of other schools shows that the com-
puter services Davidson plans are comparable to, if
not better than, those of other schools of roughly Da-

vidson’s size.

The Prime 750 is a “marvelous, fantastic ma- .

chine,” said Betsy Little, director of computer servi-
ces at:,Swarthmore College near _, Philadelphia.
Swarthmore: installed a Prime 750, the. same com-
puter that Davidson recently bought, last year. Da-
vidson i$ now wroking closely with Swarthmore in
developing the:capabilities of the system.

~ Swarthmore operates their system a Itttle differ-
ently thas Davidson does in that they limit access to
the computer ‘by an accounting system. “We have a
complicated’ system for charging,” Ms. Little said.
Each student is assigned $100 worth of computer —

time. When a user reaches that limit besa must apply. for
a larger allocation. Students in computer ‘science
courses or other classes that require more computer
time get a larger allocation.

Davidson operates its system more like Wofford

College in Spartanburg, South Carolina. According
to Dan Olds, director of computer services, Wofford
operates on the “library philosophy” which means
that the computer is available at no extra charge to
students, like the college library. There is no charge-
back system and they allow any reasonable requests

’ for file space. Wofford has a DEC PDP 11/40 com-

puter.

Like Hampden- Sydney College, Davidson
makes word procesing available to students. With
word processing users can type papers onto the com-
puter, correct mistakes, change words, move para-
graphs, etc. The computer will then produce an error-
free hard copy. According to computer operator Kar-

en Singer Hampden-Sydney uses a chargeback sys.
‘tem to control access to its Perkin-Elmer 3240.

; 32 terminals

Davidson Computer Services Director Bob De-
Sieno says that Davidson has 32 terminals currently
on order. A terminal is an individual work station
with a typewriter-like keyboard and a television
screen. The Computer Center staff is currently in-
stalling nineteen terminals around campus now, and
ten more should arrive next week.

This is more than most of the colleges of David-
son's size that the Davidsonian. contacted. The Uni-
versity of the South has seventeen terminals available
to students 24 hours a day, according to coordinator
of computer services Peggy Greene. Oglethorpe Uni-
versity in Atlanta uses a DEC PDP 1134A and has 12
terminals available only during the day, said director
of academic computing Charlton Jones. Wofford has
11 terminals and Hampden-Sydney “about 35.”

The computer dir ector Robert DeSieno runs the show

by J. David Fleming "83

Professor Robert DeSieno lies at the. source.of —

the current surge in computer activity at Davidson

College. Due in a big part to his guidance, David-.

son’s Computer Services Centét has'grown more than
any other “départinient” at school.’ DeSiéno, howev-
er, is no old hand ‘at either Davidson or the field. of
computer services.

Dr: DeSieno, 48, grew up in Schnectady, New
York, and attendéd Union College there: He'received “~

his Ph.D. in physical chemistry at the University of
California at Davis; and, after serving in the Air
Force in Japan, he worked at General Electric and lat-
er Rhom-Haas. Dr. DeSieno’s teaching creer began

at Westminster’ ‘College im Pensylvania, where he .
taught chemistry for'twelve years. In 1980, he joined —
the faculty.of Davidson as chemistry professor and

new director of the Computer Services Center. By the
beginning of this school year, though, chemistry was
taking a back seat to DeSieno’s responsibilities. as
head of the computer programs: He misses teaching
chemistry;’ but has’ found his: work with computers

High technology

here to be challenging and exciting.

New in his field
In graduate school at California, DeSieno first
began to use.computers as help in his study of the be-

havior of light. But those computers of the early 60’s -

were very different from the ones today. Not until
about five years ago did he begin to get seriously into
the field. When micro-computers first began to flour-

ish, he bought a kit and built one. By the time he left.

Westminster, ‘he had corriputers playing a very active

role in the chemistry department there. Now, he feels

like a whole new purpose in life has opened up for
him. After fifteen years in chemistry, DeSieno felt
like he was “running on the same road.” It’s been a re-

warding change for him, and his new job keeps him .

incredibly busy.

Dr. DeSieno is direct, practical, and serious
enough about. computers: to push their expansion at —

Davidson in a big way. His office at ithe Computer

~ Services Center behind the post office is filled with

systems handbooks, computer pamphlets, and even a

terminal right beside his desk. He wants to make the —

Davidson unveils the new computer system

1808
‘rofl

computer at Davidson ‘ ‘a resource which will be es-
sential to the students and faculty as the library is.’
One of the roles of the liberal education, he explains,
is to extract patterns from an array of facts and thus to
understand those facts better. This is precisely. what
the computer can help one do.- Y,

Being constantly in touch with the “cutting
edge” of new technology is one of the rewards Dr.
DeSieno has acquired from his work with computers.
Because. they are so prevalent in, the outside. wourld,

_ he feels all students can benefit from using them, And

the students do want to use them, he adds. No push-
ing is necessary. “All we need to do is give them i in-
struction and guidance,” he says.

The challenge of his position at the Center has
left little time for Dr. DeSieno to teach or pursue oth-
er interests. But when he’s not working’ with. the
Computer Services, he enjoys spending time with his
wife and two sons, reading Russian novels, and at-
tending the cultural events Davidson has to offer. He
likes to see his children growing and. being happy.
“And challenged, ” he adds with emphasis and a
smile. . iw

[continued fecant iaige 1)

allowed by interactive computing is
expected to reduce the possibility of
human error found i in the old system.

An important resource will be the:

tie-in. to’ the: Triangle Universities
Commutation Center (TUCO; THCC

new computers,
The administration Should benefit

greatly from the new computer system, -
‘Its computer, the Prime 450, isa little
less powerful than.the academic com- -

puter. However, it came with @ large

software package, a battery of very

to. One benefit will be the opportunity ©
for even more effective planning than —
is otherwise possible, Dr. DeSieno ex-
‘pects that the College as a whole will

be able to operate more efficiently with
the help of the new computers.
‘Computer time is free to all stu-

day through Thurday. Once the Com-
puter Center’s workload decreaases
afte the break-in period, they will offer
workshops opn how. to use the com-
puter,

Right now sili six Aenbahols —
all in the Comnnter Centér— are avail-
