College military science
courses are courses in leader-
ship development. You learn
techniques involved in the
management of resources.
Techniques that are gppiice
ble to any management job
Another important leadership
characteristic is interpersonal
relationships. Things are
accomplished by people and
the kind of relationship estab-
lished goes a long way in.
determining your success as
a Dacoine eke you mend
to amanager ina
mititary or civilian career,
Army ROTC can give youa
competitive edge.

Don’t wait until after col-
lege to get practical manage-

ment experience: ‘Add ieader:

ship to your class schedule
now, -

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT
IT TAKES TO LEAD

. For More Information Contact:

CPT Al Brauer
ROTC Dept.

6:00 — 8:00

Bis

Objectivism -

‘Asan pbk ie Usd
égoism and capitalism,
seek: to reach the men of

the intellect- eo

svalstan? on request. .

‘Box 3046” 892-8171”

2 8:00 am— 1:30 pr

hema bit set ees

MM =WDAV. Boccherini:

String Quintet Num‘ 5 in E Major, Op* 13. Schumann:

Sonata Num" | in F-sharp minor, Op* 11. Sor: Sonata in

C, Op* 25, the Grand Sonata. Albinoni: Concerto Num‘
10 in F Major for Violin and Chamber Orchestra.

00 p IM WDAV. The Philadelphia Orchestra.
Dutoit conducts music by Manuel de Falla:
Three. Dances from the ballet, “The Three Cornered

- Hat;” Mendelssohn’s Concerto in E minor for Violin
- and Orchestra, Op*64 with violin soloist Kyung-Wha

Chung; and the Symphony num’ 4. in F minor, Op* 36 by
Tchaikovsky.

8:00 & 10:30 pm Love Aisin

Pop Film: Airplane. The 1980 hit movie. It’s not your
ordinary “airplane tragedy” film. See Nick’s Flicks.

10:00 & 11:30 pm 900 Room. Joe

Smothers and Jack Lawrence. Bluegrass guitarists. Joe
Smothers, slick fingerpicker and master of the human
voice, has long delighted audiences with his renditions
of soulful ballads, blues songs, and traditional tunes.
His writing ability and droll humor are key factors in the
creative force behind this duet’s excellent sound. As an
autoharpist, he adds yet another dimension to the musi-
cal prowess of the pair. Jack Lawrence has been he-
ralded as one of the finest flat pickers playing today.

_ From fiddle tunes and blues to early swing, Jack amazes

crowds wherever he plays.

‘Senntey wena ‘Casi reas Mexican

masks and belts exhibition. A small part of UNC anthro-
pologist Marion Edinger’s collection of Mexican masks
and belts, this exhibit reflects.a strange blend of ancient

Coa ee ~

canoes rites:

Dental Admission Test (DAI ain
sion Test (LSAT). J Hing exan ae
a0 oc IAC, Good luck.”

1:30 pm

Football at Bucknell. Head Coach Ed.
_ Farrell is “the two week layoff. will Help rabies ;

inconsistencies — the team’s main problem.” He ex-
pects it to be a difficult game. .

2:00 pM Soccer match with: Washington and
Lee. Home Game. Come out and. watch these guys.
‘They're looking good.

00 pm. Men’s.-cross country: Appalachian
a and Women’s cross country: Furman.

Both at home.

5:00 — 8:00 pm WDAV. Schumann: Fan-
‘tasiestucke, Op* 12.

trauss; Horn-Concerto num! 2 in
E-flat Major.’ Handel: Suite for-the Royal Fireworks.
Fauré: Sonata in A Major for Violin and Piano, Op* 13.
Regie: Wind es inD minor, Op* aM, laid 4.

8: 004 pm WDAV. ‘The Boston Pops, Assistant

conductor Harry Ellis Dicksen directs Tchaikovsky's
Coronation March; Bach's Fugua a la Gigue, arr* Holst;
Albinoni’s Adagio for Organ

and Strings with organist

; Wagner’s prelude to Die Meistersin-

1927 the Concer for Trumpet and Orchesiraby Joseph :
Haydn, sitet ‘soloist; and mote. 3k

10:00, MD. . WDAY. Jazz: with ‘Bill Bambach..
“Comméercialism and Innovation” (part“4).In tonight's:

program, music by some of the i innovators and popular-
