January 16, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

Brave New Worldbarely escapes ban in Iredell County

At an open meeting in Mooresville on January 5 the
Iredell County School Board voted unanimously to
retain Aldous Huxley's Brave New World as an
approved text for use in ite schools.

The decision came after. months of effort by parents
and clergymen associated with the Moral Majority to
have the book removed from classroom use.

. Davidson's English department sent a collective
letter urging the board not to. ban Brave New World.
English Professor Randy Nelson, an Iredell County
native, made a personal. plea on behalf of the book at
the December board meeting.

The conflict began early last autumn when Charles

Campbell, father of a North Iredell High School
student, lodged a request for the book’s withdrawal
from the school’s College Preparatory English course,
taught mostly to sixteen year-olds.

Although the novel has been a part of the course fro
17 years, this was the first time it was the subject of a
complaint.

As soon as Campbell submitted his request, the
school board, following county procedures, removed
Brave New World from use while it reviewed the case.

At the time, Campbell expressed the view that the
novel would ‘‘make a good donfire.’’ He later retracted
this statement. ;

Campbell presented his casse to two local clergymen

200 register for the draft

the event of a draft it would be

By JEFF HOLLAND

linked with the Moral Majority..North Iredell’s media
Committee heard their case and decided'to keep the

book in-use. Campbell then appealed to the county

school board.

At their December 11 meeting the board heard
arguments from both sides but made. no decision until
January 5.

—The clergymen claimed
~ that the book was
anti-family, pro-drugs
and anti-God

The clergymen’s arguments for barring the novel
rested largely upon its allegedly immoral and

' blasphemous content. They claimed that the book was

anti-family, pro-drugs and anti-God.

The text received its most powerful defense from the
high school students themselves, who said they found
Huxley’s satire not only accessible, but also a useful

Staff Writer

Davidson men born in 1962
registered for the draft in large
numbers last week as required
by law.

Davidson postal clerk Jack
Burris said approximately 200
people filled out the government
forms at the post office. There
were no problems, he said, and
most men included their Social
Security numbers on their regis-
tration cards

The numbers are not mand-
atory although they make it
easier for the government to
contact an individual.

The Davidson Registration
and Draft Information Service
(DRDIS), an informal organiza-
tion of students concerned
about the draft, counselled men
not to include the numbers. In

harder for the government to
trace a draft evader, they
argued.

The enactment of the regis-
tration by the Carter Adminis-
tration prompted a group of
about 15 students to organize
the DRDIS to provide counsel-
ing and information to students
concerned about the draft,
according to a spokesman. for
the organization.

The organization provides lit-
erature to local high schools as
well as college students. It
plans to invite speakers to the
College to counsel students on
how to obtain conscientious
objector status.

Males born in 1963 are requir-
ed to register during the year
as they turn 18, according to
Burris.

i¢ - ‘bean

and stimulating aid to discussion of problems of
modern society such as individual and collective
responsibility, education and censorship. The clergy

claimed they could find no satirical intent on the part of

Huxley.

The plaintiff argued that they were not ini favor of
“censorship” or ‘‘book-burning’’, but merely of
removing a single objectionsble book and of preserving
parents’ and children’s rights to choose what they read.
The anti-censorship lobby countered that this pre-
sented the child with no choice at all.

‘When the board announced its decision, the North
Iredell High School media committee submitted a
proposal to change the present county procedures for
reviewing protested materials.

Under the proposed guidelines individual students
could, at the discretion of teacher and principal, read
alternative texts if parents raised strong objections to a
particular book.

_The media committee proposal would also keep a
protested book in circulation until a final decision was
made. The committee called the old procedure of
banning a book as soon as a complaint was filed a
breach of the principle “Innocent until proven guilty.’’
The English department had also recommended this
change.

The school board will probably vote on these
proposals at next month’s meeting.

GET-A-WAY

Ski all day and come home to cuddle up
by the fireplace in secluded hideaways
in the Great Snokies.

Gee ) UT wonde,-

on aA Come ).

the oly

thing that
) will look

Dea th

get fov
Brown -uosiu

Good luck On your

Thirty dollars for two;

$35 for four nightly.
Mountain Brook Cottages
Rt. 2, Box 301, Sylva, NC
Phone 704/586-4329

Brown 05 2

but thats
