Friday 18 September 1981

by Steve Soud '84
When football Coach Ed Farrell'and his‘assistants
loaded the bus bound for Wofford, they packed on two
surprises—a keg of TNT and a sophomore quarterback
‘named Keith Martin. The results were surprising, and
surprise package led to the most exciting Davidson

football in recent history, as the underdog Cats turned |

the tables on the Terriers in a 22~21 come-from-behind
thriller.

“We went into the game planning to have a good
time,” said Martin, in his first starting assignment at
Davidson. The merriment was in evidence in the first
half as the Wildcat offense moved the ball well, but
fumbles, all of them luckily regained, stalled the party.
Some overzealous offensive linemen also committed a
few penalties, keeping the damper on.

The defense was celebrating on its own, clamping
down on the Wofford wishbone. The Terriers made
practically no progress until in the second quarter they
cashed in on three broken plays for big yardage. The
Terriers were on the move, and soon thereafter they
threw an endzone bash as they celebrated a 7-3 half-
time lead. .

_ The Davidson good time appeared to be breaking
up in the second half as Wofford recovered a Wil@eat
fumble on the Davidson 14. The Terriers again capital-
ized and went ahead 14~— 3.

The Wildcats, however, remained unshaken.
“‘We knew all the time we could come back. We didn’t
get nervous. That was the reason we did come back,”
commented Martin. Apparently without anxiety Mar-
tin kept the ball on a‘broken play and bolted 83 yards
until he was finally brought:down at the Wofford one
yard line. The offensive line wasn’t making progress

Newberry upsets gridders | /

Turnovers the culprit

DAVIDSONIAN

e .
2 S
S fe ‘ : or 2g ‘ e:
3 r
‘ ; r f be

— . “a . i — if by

eer : ry A : ret}
a4. i x0 Boe cs by

ats! tr & ‘é

against the Terrier goal line stand, so Farrell opted fora
fake to fullback Ray Sinclair:-Sinclair’s over-the-top
drive fooled the defense, and Martin connected with
Mickey Dillon in the end zone for the: TD. Placekicker
Wayne Paymer, who had already had one of his two
field goal tries blocked, came on for the extra point,
but was wide of the mark. Paymer had spent most of
the week sidelined with a muscle pull, and his timing
was off. ,

Just when the DC road party was warming up
again, 14-9; the Terriers ran the kickoff back to the
Wildcat 35. To worsen matters, they scored on fourth
down to go ahead 21-9,

Farrell took one look at the scoreboard and de-
cided that the good time needed livening up. He sent
someone (we know not who) back to the bus for the keg
of TNT, and Davidson had a blast thereafter.

The offensive explosion started with about 10'4
minutes left in the game. The offense executed a clinic-
like mix. of pass and run,.and sophomore Bob Miller
charged across the final four yards of the drive to
tighten things at 21-15. That was as tight as it got,
though, as Wofford arose in full force to block the
point-after attempt.

The Wildcats. took over the ball with 3:03 on the
clock, and unsuspecting Wofford was about to expe-
rience the second offensive explosion in the chain reac-
tion started by Farrell’s TNT. A predominantly pass-
oriented drive brought Martin and co. to the Wofford
15, and the party was jumping. Celebration appeared
premature as the Cats couldn’t keep anything going.

It was only the calm before the storm, however,
as Martin pinpointed sophomore split end Jeff

McSwain, who went out of bounds at the four. The call _

Pas ” 2

i , .
Ke :
f O fe

page 21

ord

could have gone either way, and the officials, appar-
ently caught up in the Davidson revelry, called it a,
completion.

Whew! Hold your breath, folks, we got a wild one
here! Nineteen seconds left. Wildcats on the Wofford
4. Davidson down by six. A touchdown ties, the PAT
wins.

As a coach you’ re looking to throw three or four
pass plays. Remember, an incompletion Stops the
clock. Well, that “Out” play had the split end wide op-
en every time on that last drive. Try it, but if it’s not op-
en, don’t hesitate to throw the ball away. We can’t af-
ford a sack or an interception!

You run the play. Todd Hermety is open in the
endzone. Martin sees him, hits him with the pass.
Boom! Touchdown! Tie game, 21-21!

People hear a lot about “experience” in sports, but
at no time was it ‘more evident than Saturday night.
Paymer came on, having had two kicks blocked and
another just plain missed. That’s a lot to ask anyone to:
go through, and putting a game-winning situation on
one’s feet can’t help matters. But put the magic word
“senior” in front of his name, and the experience factor
enters. Despite what had gone before, Paymer split the
uprights. Davidson 22, Wofford 21.

That’s when the real party began. Martin, of
course, was hailed as a hero, but what of Brian Whit-
mire, who was the helmsman all last year? He was per-
forming heroics of a different sort—unsung heroics.
“Brian was tremendously involved in the game. He
talked to Keith about things he saw from the sideline.
He showed great enthusiasm for the defense,” praised

Farrell. Whitmire’s cheering earned him the game
ball.

cB

by Steve Soud ‘84
What does a football: coach say
about a game in which he considers
himself a two touchdown favorite, yet
loses by four? Wildcat Coach Ed Farrell
says of his 32-7 shocker dealt by New-
berry College, “We were very disap-
pointed, very embarassed, but not the
least bit discouraged.” The disappoint-
ment came not from a porous defense,
but from a usually potent Wildcat of-
fense. Five Davidson turnovers led to
three Newberry touchdowns.
The first key turnover led to the
first half’s only score. The Wildcé
fumbled inside the 25-yard line, and t
opportune Indian offense put the ba
the end zone. The .Newberry;'s
kicker missed. the point after, ati
-- score stood.6-0 at the half;

sty

; .
| The:first half Davidson offense /
was not opportunistic .at all in compari- '

son. Although:senior quarterback Brian

Whitmire carried the team inside the 30- .

yard line four times in the: first half, the
offense conked out each ‘time. Tumov-
ers were again thé problem. . ©

‘The ‘game’s second’ touchdown’

- was‘a virtual repéat of the' first; Newber-

ry scoring off a fumble: Indian Coach _
Reed Charpia elected to.go for a two -
~ point conversion, butthat was missed as __

well.

| clicked into form ¢arly in. the fourth
quarter as the offense worked a 61-yard

touchdown drive on the strength of se-

nior fullback Ray Sinclair: ‘Sinclair
rushed for 40 yards in the series, includ-

a
he?
rane)

‘ cluded: | eee
“| The ‘Newberry: game was some- |.
what..an indicator of the team’s .
“strengths; however. The defensive se- .

HB Se Rage ; --condary is expérienced, and has some
The Davidson ‘ offense. finally.

ing a four yard TD sprint. Senior Wayne

Paymer nailed:the PAT, and the Wild-

cats stood well within reach of a win,
12-7. :

Offensively, the Cats did not show
much clout. Single season rushing re-
cord-holder Sinclair ran for 74 yards on
24 carries. Whitmire and sophomore

_QB Keith Martin completed a dismal | 1
of 32.passes to cover 113 yards.

In retrospect, Farrell considered
his choice of less contact in training the
root of the problem. - He credited
“missed offensive line assignments” to
the lack of training contact and and

_ short thirteen day workout schedule.

‘,}, Last season, key starters fullback Alvin
'“CAtkinson and split end Gifford Piercy

were séverely injured during preseason
‘waining, ‘temoving two key scoring
threats from the offense.

“| Agcording’ to Farrell, the team
- played a physical game, hitting hard —
and hustling. “We had no mental tough-__

ness, however,” he said, “Ninety per

cent of the time we missed assignments. |.
-.’ They weren't beating our blockers, we. |} .
wére ‘beating oufselves,” Farrell con- |.

depth. :‘The-big front five (averaging 246
Ibs.) consists.of mostly seasoned vete-
rans of trench warfare. On the other
hand, the offensive line is inéxpe-
-tienced, but will grow more capable as
the season wears on.

FS
ss - CB
B B
E NG T €
x OO
4
delay

the linebackerr blitzes, the tight end
goes out as the “hot receiver.” The key
to the play is the [5] split end pattern.
The split end runs toward the corner-
back, and as the defense drops back, he
cuts toward the sideline and back to the
line of scrimmage. The pass should be
low and away, necessitating a diving
‘catch to prevent an interception.

The “Out” Play

This is the pass play that scored the
winning touchdown against Wofford.
[1] The ball is snapped, and the quar-
terback drops into the pocket, which in-
cludes [2] the running backs pass
blocking. [3] The wingback runs a flag
pattern, while [4] the tight end blocks. If

; ‘The Meeting Place announces its reopening. cae

~ “World atmosphere

_. from 5.30:to 10.00

~ Sunday from_11.30 a.m. to 10.00 p.m. _

Mooresville-on-Avon

with new management. A new chef. And an Old

ete Serving four: days the week—
‘Thursday through ‘Saturday ar

on

Luncheon special on Sunday—
$6.95.the plate

