Phi Society

To the Editor:

Sherman Allen’s remark in the last Davidsonian
(“Gentlemen Only: The Philanthropic Society’s sexist
membership policy”) that to admit women members to
the Philanthropic Society would cause it “to become

more social instead of maintaining the intellectual at-

See ere | erie sasha

Whek do you mena; M’ Allen? That women aren’t
intelligent enough to relate to men on any level other
than a social one? Or that men are incapable of sons
so?

“Intellectual atmosphere” aphies a certain open-
mindedness that you do not display. Perhaps you are
threatened by the presence of intelligent, interesting

women. ae
Jenny O’Briant ’84

Phi’s tradition .

To the Editor:
In response: to Cathi Dumas’ s column [6 No-
vember]; in which Sherman Allen defends the Philan-

thropic Society’s exclusion of women on the basis of |
its/being “the tradition,” 1 am moved beg ask him what
‘blacks. At one time here in the South, hit was not, just :
the “tradition,” thas was.a moral and legal judgement

his feelings would be if mem!

Davidson ROTC unit, and

man who made his “cute” remark will reflect on the
‘truth — ag el On

S

friend on his arm, some ¢ etaareabic student yelled out to

the puffing, sweating troops: “Baby-eating practice on
the count of four — HO!”

Tam sure this comment was primarily made to im-

~ press his girlfriend with how “cool” he was, and I am

sure also his innuendo of scorn is not the general feel-

_ ing of the Davidson student population, however Ido |
- feel the issue of how some students and others feel
‘about the ROTC and the military merits some com-
ment.

There are probably as trany reasons for participat-

| ing in the ROTC program as there are students in the -
. program; some are there to help pay their way through

college by obligating themselves to pay back the op-
portunity by service to their country, some are there to.
prepare themselves for a career in the military, some
are there to gain the offered chance: of discipline and
leadership so necessary. to get ahead in the business -
world, and some, t prame, hecauap Wey think the une-
forms look sharp.

‘Whatever the reason for their being i in the program,
I thank God each day for the fact that they are there,
and that they are preparing themselves to be the leaders
in both the military and the world.

‘Peace through strength: works, learning through i

discipline works, the philosophy of “service being the -
rent you pay for the space you occupy” works, and the
Reserve Officer Training Corps works.

I am proud of each of those fine young people in the
hope sincerely the young

ae he ROTC

bound up in granite. Thankfully, ‘we. have moved "g pi,

beyond that primitive discrimiinatory attitude.
Or have we?
David Sisk *85

| Respect ROTC |

To the Editor:

Several weeks ago I had nse pleasure of feeding:
an afternoon on the campus there at Davidson and at-

tending the awards ceremony presented by the David-
son Army ROTC unit. A number of young men and
women were presented the awards that they had earned
during the past year, and you could tell By thes expres-

sions and demeanor they were very proud s f the work.
they had done and te coerce their peers baci

“After a brief reception there was a tease and a
physical training session. Strolling by, with his girl-

4

All-female house .

: : To the Editor:

Tread in the Havideodion (not the current one, I’m

teal it’s been a rough term and I’m somewhat behind) ;
“that three sophomore women have presented. plans to.
open a second all-female eating kotise. Great. Fine atid in
“the unfan

dandy. I’d like to sée one. However, as far as I'm con-

cerned, there is a:caveat.. ‘I-don’t want to pour battery ;
. :s, but I have to wonder if an-

acid on anyone "$ Cor

:. yone has bothered to, scrutinize seriously the motives

. for establishing ‘Such 2 a house, at least'as those motives
were presented in the 30 October article. :

"The article essentially cites two aeaitages tohav-
ing such a house: increased social benefits and eg me

the afticle’s quote of an earlier letter to the Davidsonian

_— confusing, huh?) “a forum’ ‘that ‘would enable co-
eds to discuss issues Televant to women today.”

Does that second one sound familiar? It sae:

_. That was one of the purposes for which Rusk House

was opened in 1977. Rusk succeeded so brilliantly 1 that

- the Women’s Center was established last year to do the

same thing. It’s going to. upset some women for me to
say this, but facts are facts: I, widely-reputed male

- chauvinist pig and the 1981 SPE-D Poster Child, sat in

on a seminar atthe Women’s Center and heard (and
participated in) more meaningful discussion of “issues
relevant to: women today” in thirty minutes than I’ve
heard at Rusk in three and a half years. Moreover, al-
most all the women that I’ve talked to who have spent.
time at bam places tell me that my observation is basi-
cally accurate.

Kathy Kooken’s assertion that “women feel freer to
discuss their concerns in an all-women setting” is fine
—'as far as it goes, which isn’t far. Pure and simple

guts — far more than the setting, be it all-male, all-fe-

male, or co-ed — does more than anything else to get
important things said. Also, Kathy and the others are
making a big mistake if they believe that all so-called
“women’s:issues” are best discussed in an all-female
forum. For many of these issues — sex discrimination
and marriage / family / career choices, for example —
aren’t “women’s issues” so much as issues concerning
the relationships between men and women. As such,

these issues would be most productively discussed in.a
group containing members of both sexes, not in an all-

female forum. .

I wish to emphasize that I'm not denying the need
of Davidson women for same-sex fellowship. If wom-
en want an all-female eating house for social purposes,

‘that’s fine with me. If they want to set up a sorority, for
' that matter, I couldn’t care less. What does bother me

is that. while people like Kathy Kooken imply that Da-
vidson lacks a forum for discussing women’s issues,
such a forum— the Women’s Center — already exists.

Meaningful discussions go on there every day. And yet
the Women’s ‘Center is slated to lose the Kimmel
House and has received no guarantee whatever from

the College that i it will have a permanent place to meet.

‘in the future. -

If Rusk House i is any indication, and I’m not alone
in believing that it is, expanding social opportunities
will supplant discussion of women’s issues as the new
house’s raison d'étre. If Davidson women (and men)
believe. that a forum for the discussion of women’s

— issues is important, they should lend their support to

the Women’s Center. Those women who, though cit-
ing the need for such a forum, just want a Patterson
Court house in which to play. sorority should not be —

' taken seriously. And for those women sho seriously

want a, oo good luck. You will need it.
SHoope Alexander, IV ’82

todeeu

It is with deep gratitude that I thank Davidson Col-
lege and its associates for the hospitality given to me
‘throughout my visit to the campus for an interview.

-On October 22, 1981; I walked on Davidson Col-

-Jége’s campus for the first time. As a prospective stu-

dent, I was curious and somewhat apprehensive toward
jiliar surroundings. Any fears or anxieties I
had were soon distilled through and by the helpfulness.
and friendliness of Davidson’s students, faculty, and
staff.

Once again, thanks to everyone ars made by visit
to Davidson educational and enjoyable. -

aoe ‘ Lisa Eileen Borden

me esas 1982 Prospective

