VAN SRSOSRRSESIYI Fe sre aaseeds.-- T

January 30, 1981— The Davidsonian—9

Freshman hall experience introduces
neophytes to rigors of college life

By GLENN KELLUM
Features Editor

A door opens. A hall counselor
appears. ‘‘Hall meeting tonight at six,”
he screams. Door closes. Freshman
awakes from nap. Stunned. Goes back to
sleep.

For nearly every Davidson student,
this scene was or is a way of life from
September to May. For nine months,
freshmen are wined, dined, beered,
jeered, rushed, crushed, indoctrinated,
matriculated, coerced, conversed, grad-
ed, and jaded. And their main source of
guidance during all this comes from
older students— hall counselors.

Davidson’s freshmen are grouped
together and given surrogate mothers.
But why? Freshmen are different from
others. They’ve just come from home
where someone has been aware of their
needs, disappointments, and victories.
When they come to school (often a very
difficult time) they need someone sup-
portive. They need a home-like environ-
ment, which is ‘‘created by the hall
counselors,’’ Assistant Dean of Students
Sue Ross said.

Wouldn’t some people see the hall
counselors as coddling the freshmen?
And by extension, wouldn’t some see the
College as coddling the freshment? The
work ‘‘coddling’’ is pejorative, Ross
said. ‘‘Caring”’ is a better word.

Davidson has not always had hall
counselors. In the early 50’s freshmen
lived in dorms with upperclassmen who
had no responsibility for the new
students. ‘If I had had an upperclass-
man (in charge), it would have made an
enormous difference,’’ said Dean of
Students Will Terry ‘54. Terry said that
having seen Davidson both with and
without hall counselors, he considers the
hall counselor system ‘‘very valuable.”
College President Samuel Spencer intro-
duced the hall counselor program in the
mid ‘50’s when he was Dean of
students.

The hall counselor, in addition to
being a caring and supportive person,
should also be a good source of
information. Freshmen ‘‘need a period of
indoctrination,’’ Ross said.

She explained that this “period of
indoctrination’’ is important in a school
with an honor system. Upperclassmen
tend to take the honor system for
granted, Ross said. The hall counselor is
there to explain: the system to the
freshmen.

An important part of the hall coun-
selor’s job is dealing with the individual
problems of the freshmen on his hall. A
hall counselor should not just wait for a
freshman to come to him with a problem.
The hall counselor should ‘‘sense”’
problems, Terry said. ‘ ‘Some are better
than others.”

In the first year at school, freshmen
are likely to become depressed. The hall
counselor must be careful, Terry said,
because ‘‘negativism is contagious.” “A
hall counselor with a positive, upbeat
attitude often shapes the way freshmen
feel about Davidson. and about them-
selves.”’

Hall counselors should be ‘‘caring and
school spirited,’’ Ross said. They should
also be able to work closely with the
Dean’s office.

The Selection Committee has been
criticized for selecting hall counselors
with the same personalities. ‘‘We’re not
into cloning,’’ Terry explained, but most
of the students who apply are similar.

The Selection Committee looks for
students who are ‘‘pro-Davidson, aware
of campus events, and sincerely interest-
ed in the job,’ Freshman Advisor Barb
Ashley, a former Committee member,
said.

The effectiveness of the system is
evident, Terry said. Hall Counselor is
now a “sought after position,’’ whereas
apathy was the byword in years past.
Effective hall counselors make effective
people apple. Prestige is also a possible

“I want you for hall counselor,” Dean Terry intones.

reason why some people apply, Terry
admitted. Prestige, however, should not
be a reason to want the job, Ashley
pointed out.

This year’s senior class said their hall
counselors were most effective and influ-
ential, Terry said. However, the hall
counselor system is not free of problems.
Complaints have been sounded in the
past. Some freshmen noted on a hall cou-
nselor evaluation that the freshman hall
situation was ‘‘stifling,’’ Ashley said.
Some complained that there was dif-
ficulty in meeting upperclassmen and
other freshmen. This problem was mit-
igated for the men when Belk was con-
verted into a freshmen dormitory, Terry
explained. In Belk the freshmen can live
near other men their age without ‘‘des-
troying the unity of the hall.’’ The
women were helped with the shift frera
Cannon to Richardson, he added, ‘ be-
cause all the world beats a path to their
door anyway.”

Another problem has been that fresh-
men claimed their hall counselors were
not ‘‘assertive enough,’’ Ross said.

(David McCurry)

Assertiveness is good for the first term,
Ashley noted, but the freshmen should
be urged to “‘initiate’’ their own act-
ivities in the second half of the year.
Freshmen have also wanted the hall
counselors to be more ‘‘assertive’’ in
terms of controlling what goes on up and
down the hall, Ross added. However, the
hall counselors should ‘‘strike a balance
between friend/confidante and disciplin-
arian,”’ she concluded.

These minor problems have not lessen-
ed any of the praise that the hall coun-
selor system receives. Other schools,
such as Duke University, have come
here to talk about the possibility of con-
verting to freshmen halls and dorms.
Some of these schools have an ‘‘in-
credibly high attrition rate as compared
with Davidson,” Terry zaid.

These other schools s2e our ‘‘system’”’
as a way to lessen the problems on their
own campuses, Terry concluded. The
low attrition rate at Davidson is perhaps
due to the esprit de corps inspired by the
hall counselors, Ross said.

Camp Thunderbird

Employment at its Best
Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are
interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their
physical, mental and spiritual development. Only those persons who will
dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop
his or her potential should apply. One must have ability to teach in one or
more of our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and
coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles south
of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in
water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming and canoeing), yet an
added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis.
golf, archery, riflery and back packing). Horseback riding, white-water
canoeing and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further
information write or call G. William Climer, Jr. Director, Camp
Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C. 29710 (803-831-2121).

Creativ e hair cutting —

THE HAIR COTTAGE

for men and women
owner/stylist: Jane Schenk
stylist : Linda Caldwell
1757 E. Rocky River Road
by appointment only 892-5707

Mail to:

Sea Pines

AT HILTON HEAD

Reservations Dept.
Hilton Head Island, °
SC 29928 -

‘(no. of people)
choice) ___. Feb 13-15; __. Feb 20-22, ____ Feb 27-March 1.

Or Call Toll Free 1-800-845-6131
1-800-922-7042 in S.C.

(Sea Pines at Hilton Head, Out of the Goodness of its Heart is
Making this Unprecedented Offer to Students of Davidson College.)

e A 3-Day, First Class Weekend
on Hilton Head Island. . . $1/hr

THIS IS NOT A JOKE. Sea Pines at Hilton Hegd Island, one of
the finest resorts in America, will treat you to 3 days and 2 nights
in a private, luxury villa near the beach for $65 per person.
And as additional inducements, we’ll include two continental
breakfasts, a Saturday night cookout or buffet, free tennis and a

day’s bike rental. Allon us.

Why are we really doing this? Because the people who make these kinds of
company decisions either went to Davidson or one of the other eight colleges
we've invited.

IT PAYS TO HAVE

5)

Name

ALUMNI IN HIGH PLACES

Address

City

State

Zip —

Telephane

Gentlemen: :

Here is my deposit for $25. Please arrange a 3-Day, First Class Weekend for

. (no. of bedrooms)

for the weekend of (give Ist and 2nd

Davidson

