Y Drive

Student service corps begins fall push .

by Anne Goodwin ’84

Many Davidson students who hear the name Y
Student Service Corps have a vague idea of a group of
nice folks who do good things for other people. Now
that the Y Corps Fall Fund Drive is starting, however,
these students’ curiosity about the group’s Purpose
has been piqued.

The Y Corps has ten divisions, known as blocks,
which handle different service functions. -°Y Corps
President John Spangler said the organization is “de-
centralized and we like it that way.” Each block has
its own head to be in charge of its particular function.
Students may serve on any block which interests
them.

The blocks are :

1) Senior Citizens — airs up students and Da-
vidson senior citizens in order that they may visit and
share experiences or talents.

2) Day Care Center — arranges for student vo-
lunteers to help.teachers at the local day care center.

3) STEP — will start in January to arrange for

. 5 net Davideon NC

students to help tutor children at the Davidson Ele-
mentary School. °

- 4) Current Events — meets each Wednesday ev-
ening in the 900 Room for a discussion which is open
to everyone. ‘

5) Prisons —-takes a group to the Huntersville
Minimum Security Prison each Friday afternoon at 2
to visit with prisoners, play basketball and other
games, and tutor.

6) Community Center — offers courses on sub-
jects ranging from crafts to dancing to furniture up-
holstery and. provides an after-school program for
Davidson youngsters.

7) Depot Lunch — serves sandwiches, ice
cream and cookies each Thursday from noon to 1:30
for students, faculty; and other community members.

8) CROP — serves beans and cornbread each
Tuesday from noon to 1:30 for a mere $1.00, which
goes to the CROP World Hunger Fund.

9) Environmental — collects paper and alumin-
mum for recycling, and winterizes houses in David-
son. Last year, they built a solay greenhouse onto the
Depot as well.

10) Awareness — distributes notices, makes
posters, and is generally in charge of communica-
tions.

Y Corps secretary Kim McAllister said-“people

: can get involved in these blocks any time during the

year.” There are “opportunities for regular and irreg-
ular service,” she added.

In addition to your manpower, the. y Corps
needs your money. The Fall Fund Drive, which starts
today, provides the operational budget for the entire
year. “We are thinking that $5.00 per person that we _
contact is not an unreasonable demand” John said.
The only money from the fund drive which goes out-
side the Davidson community is sent to Davidson
alumni working as teachers in Kenya. .

“We feel that t through the Y we offer an opportu-
nity, for service that will not be equalled. . . [and that]
will not be as available later in life” Community Lia-.
son Gordon Turnbull said. “We hope that [students]
will get into the habit of service,”, -,.

Meetings of the Y Student Service Corps are ev-
ery other Monday at-10 pm. The next one will be Oc-
tober 12.

» itty our new homemade
Sicilian Pizza!

# (Thick and Chewy)

FREE beverages after the football

| game this Saturday evening!

Delivery
service:

892-8686.

DAVIDSON VS. THE CITADEL 17 OCT.

Come see the Wildcats in beautiful Charleston,

harlest

Present this. ‘coupon at check-in at
te Ao ne oe met ye be tree, Rol
Parson oo woe oom, ae () pues room. ds. .
|, te rane ote ye 1-8039/744-8287 as : oh calls

Guest ‘signature_-

South C aroling, and save gwith our 4 aud. 1 savings!
5 Family ; Inflation Fighter

4forl 1 ee 1:

n wih her dicots o

pr-2e1

‘awa |
