On the air

HE NEWEST MEMBER OF THE WDAV PERMA-

nent staff is Theresa Woody, the new Pro

gram Director. Theresa is a Charlotte native
and a graduate of the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, where she majored ih music. After gra-
duation, she taught piano at UNC.

Theresa’s previous radio experience comes from
work as a permanent announcer at WDBS in Dur-
ham, a commercial classical and jazz station. She al-
so did some programming there.

Theresa said she first b ¢came interested in music
while in Europe the summer before her senior year in
high school. She had been considering pre-med as her

Thea Woody major in college, she heard an organ concert at Notre
Dame cathedral in Paris. She was surrounded and im-
Tom Kazez mersed by the huge sound, and she made a vow at that

_ time to become more serious about-music.

iy ton tae, a grad-
allace College and Ohio

‘State Gaver D' Kazee has just come to Davidson

for inter tiie

_ from Tulane cha where he has been eam

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981

Theresa Woody joins WDAV staff

Since Theresa has begun work at WDAV, she has
been pleased with the work and the adjustment to Da-
vidson life. While programming itself is “only five
percent inspiration and 95 percent. tedium,” she has

‘ particularly enjoyed working with people in the arts

and interviewing visiting artists. Theresa thinks this
aspect of her work is the most exciting thing about her
job. On the negative side, however, she is “not look-
ing forward to dealing with those [listeners] who
prefer light, easy-listening music,” as opposed to an
intelligent mix of sytles of serious music.

As for Davidson itself, Theresa said she likes
“college towns and pretty campuses with big oak
trees.” While she was at first apalled that she couldn’t
find Boston lettuce, she finally found some, so she
thinks she will adjust well to Davidson.

By Jonathon Glance ’83.

the good environment for doing his research. He also
felt that the community would be a good place in
which to raise his one-year-old son, Geoffry, and his
three-year-old daughter, Nicole, of whom he says:
“She makes going home fun sometimes.”

- D’ Kazee’s impressions of Davidson so far have
seen “very positive.” He has especially been im-

" pressed by the way people in both the college and the

community-go out of their way to help newcomers.

D' Kazee is currently teaching Political Parties
and Interest Groups and Public Opinion and Ideology
Formation. Next term he will lead a seminar in Amer-
ican Politics and a course on Congress and the Presid-
ae

By Elizabeth Laughlin ’85.
