Friday 18 September 1981

DAVIDSONIAN , 7 ‘page.19

J-Boy surveys fall prospects 2

by J-boy

Beyond the practice fields,
beyond the X’s' and O’s on black-
boards (or greenboards, as the case
may be), beyond helmets and pads,
there is only one true fall sport at-Da-
vidson—not football, not soccer, not
field hockey. It doesn’t show up on
the athletic budget, and the NCAA
doesn’t keep statistics for it. Just

Each fall about 150 rookie pros-
pects arrive on campus from the ex-
tensive high school farm system.
Upperclassmen and __ freshmen
scouts, aided by the Wildcat Hand-
book (the playbook of the sport),
begin the screening process. The

playbook, however, gives only a li- ©

mited amount of information—the
name, hometown, and a no-so-accu-

Rich.” He was quite selective for his
starters, adding, “They can’t be
overwight. You know, they gotta be
more body than brawn. I also look
for ones that don’t wear fluorescent
clothing.”

The. final football player inter-
viewed scopes his big-league pros-
pects “at dinner in the Commons.”

He continued, “She must have legs,

being the perfect prospect: ime
team, all-pro, if you will. Scouts leaf

rookies who caught their eye e sone
way of another.

The rookies having been pated,
the top-statistic girls are negotiated
with concerning’ a contract. Parties

what, pray tell, might this obscure rate mug shot. The playbook is sadly yes, I look for the brick are the frequent scene of contact ne- -
athletic event be? Girlwatching. Par- lacking in two particular area- house—36-24—36.” gotiations. Although scouts tend to
ticularly freshman girlwatching. s—height and weight. To overcome Soccer players, who. expect broadcast contract signings: far. and

Ask any fall athlete about this
venerable sport and he’ll let you
know that nothing supercedes scout-
ing women in priority. A football
player spends hours-a day running
plays, but how many nightime hours
are spent studying other “backfields
in. motion?” We: all watch the pass
rush Saturday afternoons, but few
eyes are select enough to catch the
impasse rush Saturday night.

Although most of this has been
well-hidden in the past, it is now

time that this Great American Sport _

be brought out-in the afternoon:day-
light, if you will.

this, scouts rely on the on-the-field

tryout.

At this point the freshmen are
left on the bench. Leave it to the up-
perclassmen to know the first-class
spots for scoping.

Football. players in particular
are well trained in the on-field
tryout. One cosmopolitan gridder
checks out his rookie prospects ever-
ywhere. “I look for a.girl who re-
spects her body and takes good care
of it. She shows the way she feels.”

Another gridder contends that a

_ prime tryout spot is “sunbathing in

the ROTC drill field in front of

training camp excellence as well, are
not to be outdone. One studious
booter does his girlwatching “in the
library, under the stairs. I look for
them wandering around girls seeking
attention.”

A less studious player conducts
his tryouts at parties. “I’m not real
choosy. I look for the blondes and
the ones having a good time,” he
added.

One basketball player, on the
other hand, was quite a bit more
choosy. Where does he hold training
camp? “Nowhere on this campus.”

With tryouts over, statistics
must be arranged in some coherent

near, many (and much less. public-
ized) are the rejections to contract of-
fers. Top prospects. who know. thier
worth want to play for contenders,
guys who have seen first place ‘be-
fore. Once the elusive contract is
signed, scouting stops, and the girl is
considered secure—for now. Aitrade
or free agency is always posite:

No one can deny that girlwatch-
ing is a prominent (though well-hid-
den) campus sport. For thoseen-
lightened ones among you who; wish
to catch all the action either as spec-
tator or participant, this weekend’s
parties should prove quite an arena!

Sophomore Leslie Bryan
practices her swing and
junior Cathy Morell tends
goal as the field hockey team
looks to repeat its 1980 suc- |
cess.

6u07 913 Aq 004d

will follow.

‘Players of the Week

The Davidseiiian Sides séction ‘is: ‘atiDuc
ing an _additionsto its-revered pages. Each week,
‘the sports editor. ‘will’ survey the performances .
turned.in by the various athletes involved in inter-
collegiate sports, ‘The sports editor will choose the
athlete(s) who.haye exhibited the best performace ;
: . of that week. - short: peboehy and:  tepoee

Keith Martin 84

Brian Whitmire "82

KEITH MARTIN and BRIAN, WHITMIRE,

ta am

Martin, a 19 year-old sophomore from Grey,
Georgia, and Whitmire, a 21’ year-old senior from
Jacksonville, Florida played integral roles i in Sa-

- turday’s...come-from-behind football win over
' Wofford. Martin, starting his first game, ran for
over 100: yards and threw two TD passesa in the
29-21 win. Whitmire, benched for Martin, tell the
_sidelines cheering for the team, and was oo
the aie ball for his enthusiasm. ee YS:

a Be - 2 fs r aly.

