8—The Davidsonian—March 20, 1981

‘Nick's Flicks

in the past I have sometimes hinted that the life of the keen
cinephile at Davidson can be more of a ship's biscuit than the
apogee of confectionery: this week however, this is far from the
case, and to those with cars and a penchant for the Visulite’s

popcorn, rich pastures are about to be opened up. Things start
cis Ford Coppola presentation.

"The Black Stallion, in Love at 8
raham and 10:30 p.m: Worth seeing for

Pop Films show a recent Fran-

ee alone, I'm still not sure what
. else it has to recommend it. My
suspicions were first aroused when I noticed that Coppola was
given top billing, above the title, director and lead actors of the
film. In. fact the first thirty minutes of the film are a visual
delight as our juvenile hero, washed up on a desert island with a
large black horse, attempts to tame the creature. With the
return to civilization (well, some unnamed American city) the
film subsides into the lamentable schmaltz of the old-style
‘Hollywood animal-film. Make no mistake: to do this and get
away with it in the 1980s is no small achievement; to have the
gall to give the film the ending which it has is an act of
courageous impudence bordering upon arrogance. However. it
has paid off handsomely at the box-office. My only complaint is
that Micky Rooney as the old jockey who befriends the boy and
teaches him how to race should be smartly led back to the
elephant’s graveyard from which he was exhumed for this film.
A different matter entirely are the two Ingmar Bergman films
in double-bill at the Visulite March 22nd-24th (Sunday-
Tuesday). These are Autumn Sonata and Cries and Whispers,
both containing astonishing performances by Liv Ullman. The
former is an unusually bleak (even by Bergman's standards)
view of the relationship between mother and daughter. Mother
is Ingrid Bergman, a successful concert-pianist whose pursuit of
her career has emotionally crippled her children. Ullman is the
strangely tom-boy daughter.

Set in the beautifully bleak landscape of Bergman’s beloved
northern Sweden, the film is shot in the washed-out, grainy
tones used to such effect in the big-screen-adaption-from-televi-
sion of Six Scenes From A Marriage. More poignantly, it is also
said to be Ingrid Bergman’s goodbye-film: in that case, she
could not wish for a more powerful performance with which to
depart from the screen. Cries and Whispers, made in 1972, is the
visual antithesis of the other film. Shot in rich colours—red and
white abounding — it tells of the long, slow death from cancer of
one of a trio of sisters inhabiting a large mansion in the Swedish
countryside. Cleverly sectionalised by repeated fading-to-red of
the entire screen (a breath-taking technique suggesting a kind of
engorgement by blood) the film explores the lack of human
contact between the sisters. The dying woman receives no
comfort from the others and turns to the maid-servant for relief
in a love which has been conspicuously missing from a wasted
life. Ingrid Thulin and Ullman—both Bergman veterans—are
also forced to confront the emptiness of their respective
existences: the former trapped in a marriage to a husband she
despises, the latter rotting in an otiose boredom relieved only by
the tediousness of a series of unsatisfactory lovers. Be warned:
the film’s impact is as overpowering as its colour scheme as it
relentlessly pursues the idea that it is necessary to love,
irrespective of circumstances and cost. One of Bergman’s most
successful films, it could usefully be seen by anyone looking
forward to his masterpiece, The Seventh Seal, which is coming:
to Davidson in a few weeks.

this week, Elia Kazan’s adaptation of East ‘of Eden, the film
which really turned James Dean into a cultural phenomenon.
More accurately it turned the crazy-mixed-up-kid stereotype
into a cultural phenomenon, based upon a mish-mash of
psychoanalysis and tinsel-town glorification, which is still with
us. Whether a film version of Steinbeck’s tale of sibling rivalry
actually has anything more universal to say is a different
matter, not helped by the difficulty in thinking of film and book
as two distinctly separate entities: Dean is so completely the
image we have of the inarticulate, romantically battered hero in
whom the original intentions can too easily be lost in the rush to
admire the sheer excellence and excitement of the movie.
Nobody, not even Brando, did so much so easily to dignify and
make sympathetic the novel concept of delinquency. It’s part of
your social history friends, so go and see it. . .in Love next
Wednesday 24th at 8 p.m.

Finally, some. recent researches in the audio- visual depart-
ment have revealed something which I had long suspected:
namely that there is a lot more high-quality cinema available at
Davidson than most:people realize. Not that everybody has the
‘time or the inclination to go trotting off to Perkins at all hours to
see films intended for the more obscure recesses of Ist-year
Humes, but there are frequently excellent features to be seen by
those who know of them. So, in the coming weeks I'll be
reporting upon the manifold delights and pleasures to be had
_from giving up sun-bathing in favour of sitting in a darkened
room watching things like Battleship Potemkin, King Lear,
Triumph of the Will, The War Game, Ulvsses, Henrv V, Long
Dav's Journey Into Night, and Last Year at Marienbad.

off slowly on Friday night when |

the stunning cinematography |

Fine Films continues its program with an_American classic . |

Houchen’s film emits flashes of life

By TOM PAFFORD
Staff Writer

You once stood on a high balcony somewhere in
Italv and looked down upon a thriving mall in the
city; your faculty which discerns the different
forms of life below became muddled by the
belittling greatness of the distance. Closing in,
the amorphous black bodies emerged as pigeons
and people. The liquid thoroughfares of Venice
buoved up gondoliers and trash.

The floppy breasted strip-tease artiste worked
a small joint in Charlotte, performing for crowds
of men in raincoats seated at a regular distance
from one another like suburban houses. There
were monolithic rocks at the ocean's edge and the
alluring woman with the enticing and entangled
long hair standing silhouetted bv the waning sun.
Where was that?

I don't know.

This was not my sentient experience, but that
of Art Professor Emeritus Doug Houchens.

Friday night I saw the premier of The Movie, a |

work composed of snippets from the collected
footage of a large part of Doug Houchens’s life.
The footage was arranged in neither a cryptic nor
an analyzable form. It was dubbed with recorded
art lectures and Houchens’ daughter, Page,
singing a Lennon and McCartney tune. Not
surprisingly, I like the movie, and—if I need to
reinforce my opinion—other people in the crowd
that packed Chambers gallery said they liked it,
too. I can’t speak for them, but my final
realization was that I could relate to the film very
personally. Still, I am not sure why I have this
opinion or feeling.

Generally we, or at least I, expect a director to
arrange all of those unfamiliar scenes into some
sort of coherent statement, about existence or
some other weighty topic. This time I got away
from expecting that. In a Zen type of way, |
realized that what I saw was my experience.
Despite its fragmentary structure, The Movie
didn't really seem to be showing staccato,
isolated incidents, but the varied construction of
life.

As we moved towards insobriety, Doug
Houchens and I talked about getting old, among
other things. We didn’t reach any conclusions. I

within yourself for those enlightening

look back now, sober and hyped-up on caffeine.
and I see myself standing there as one who is
trving to arrange, maybe conquer, a lot of
external demands that threaten my course for
getting old. But there is an internal ‘‘me™
working its way out.

I see Houchens, a person beyond me by 40
years’ worth of decisions. a person who has a
movie about some of his experience with life. but

still a person-that has to arrange and conquer. He
also has a ‘‘me”’ working its way out.

In an essay entitled ‘Growing Old,"’ Houchens
says he wanted a film ‘‘which will praise life and
the creative process through dissolves and
juxtapositions. depending more on contrasts and
similarities of form, color, light and movement
than on any logical sequence.

Doug Houchens and friend. (Doug Houchens)

The Movie may have rough edges and
shortcomings, and I hope that viewers will not

refrain from criticizing those aspects of the film

which seem inadequate, but that is not the point.
I want to suggest a different way of viewing art, a
way that does not search for lucid, coherent
“statements.”

Try asking yourself which parts of your inner
material were stirred by The Movie, and then look

‘“state-
ments.”

When Union Director Shaw Smith saw “Grace” at Salem College two years ago, he knew he
wanted to get her to Davidson. Corresponding with Sculptor Edwiri Shewmake '41 for nearly six

months, Smith finally arranged the deal which would allow Davidson to borrow her for one term.
“We thought it would be fun,”” Smith said.

Shewmake, who is the Head of the Art Department at Salem College, has been working on
“Grace”’ for about fifteen years. Although the sculpture has a rather hefty price tag, Smith said
“if anyone would buy ‘Grace’ for the college, we would take her with gratitude.”’ ‘‘I think she’s

great,” Smith said.

(David McCurry)
