8—The Davidsonian—April 3, 1981

Nick's Flicks -

Pop Films this week features a recent and dire warning
to all those contemplating spending a year at a certain institute
of learning in France. French Postcards (Love, Friday at 8 &
10:30 p.m.) concerns the Gallic dalliances of three American

7 college students unleashed upon
an ill-prepared Sorbonne and

Nick the resulting evenements. In
fact rather more sedate than

this suggests, the film reworks
Graham the old routine about the charm

of foreign places being the
perfect backdrop for the loss of
— innocence (the acquisition of
wisdom is apparently a different matter). Marie-France Pisier,
Jean Rochefort and Debra Yound reek convincingly of
camembert and garlic throughout, and if the drama of the three
stereotypes at large ever begins to drag you can always sit back
and admire the scenery.

Striving to eschew condescension for the remainder of this
review, and in spite of the fact that the Motion Picture Academy
inexcusably omitted to invite the Davidsonian’s film reviewer to

their recent ceremony,, I still have good news to report in the |.

form of three excellent films later in the week. Next Wednesday
Fine Films shows one of the best features to emerge recently
from the juvenescent Australian film industry. My Brilliant
Career (a substantial commercial success last year and also
shown at the Visulite this winter) is far more than just a feminist
tract on growing up in a masculine society. Set in the Australia
of 80 years ago, it concerns the aspirations of a young girl
approaching adulthood in a rugged environment more interested
in thrusting conformity and responsibility upon her than in
tolerating her vaguely bohemian hankerings. How she deals
with these conflicts and the compromises which they threaten
makes a compelling and powerful drama out of initially
unpromising material, to a great extent helped by uniformly
excellent acting, a thing not always found in antipodean
offerings.

Of equal interest this week are two films in courses, both
from the earlier days of cinema and both with a strong political
content. Sergei Eisenstein’s Battleship Potemkin will be shown
in Perkins at 4 p.m. on Monday, while Leni Riefenstahl’s
Triumph of the Will (in double bill with Night and Fog) appears
Wednesday at 4 and 7 p.m., also in Perkins. Eisenstein’s film
has for long been recognized as one of the very greatest ever

‘made. Its subject is the mutiny at Odessa of a group of sailors
on a tsarist warship some time before the events of 1917 made -
such action allegedly unnecessary. An init protest against
rotten meat in rations soon becomes a full-blown uprising, and
the director skillfully combines historical fact with powerful
agitprop in a series of sequences considered breathtaking in the
days of silent movies and fixed cameras and which even néw
command admiration. The massacre on the Odessa Steps tends
to be the part referred to approvingly by most people, but the
thing to watch for is the way in which Eisenstein creates
breathtaking effects of light and shade in a series of haunting
images which convey his revolutionary purpose far more
effectively that the mere acting to the cast which (whether due
to the dictates of socialist realism or the limitations of the time I
cannot say) appears to most modern eyes as apallingly hammed.
Either way, you could profitably make an effort to see one of the
classics of world cinema even if you aren’t a denizen of 2nd-year
Humes, ,

The same can be said for Triumph of the Will, Leni
Riefenstahl’s hymn to the achievements of Hitler’s meistervolk.
I seem to recall from the official film of the 1986 Olympics that
Ms. Riefenstah] had a curious penchant for filming strapping
aryan lads hurling athletic equipment around while dressed only
in minimal underwear. This feature however is of a more
obviously political bent and is both an eloquent exposition and a
damning expose of the psychology of fascism. In fact, this film
is more than a historical curiosity, for it has a message for all
ages. Not that Riefenstah! intended it:to have the kind of impact
I am sucggesting is now likely: this talented film-maker was last
heard of a féw years ago making documentaries on the tribal
rituals of African bushmen—presumably the furthest she could

As a final note, I am’ told that at 9:50 on Monday morning a
film called Reflections will be on show in Perkins. Made by an
English mathematician, it concerns the wonders of mathe- _
matical ‘pattern ‘in Nature, Advance reports suggest that it is
stunningly beautiful and of considerable fascination to the
intellect too. ‘More than that I have not been told so more than
that I will not say: if you.can drag yourself away from ‘the other

' cinematic delights offered this week, then go to see it.

Key positions available now!

The Davidsonian needs typists.
Good pay and very flexible hours.
Contact Margaret Jackson,-6786.

| “as simple as 1,2.3,4,5...”

The physics of Frisbee revealed

By JEFF HERRIN
Features Editor Emeritus

‘“‘A marvelous and wonderful thing—a stylized
dove, an airborne lily, a soaring saucer—in short,
poetry in motion.”’

This is the lyrical description used by the
well-known twentieth century metaphysicist Sir
Scott Punnsayer in discussing The Frisbee in his

A. Rotation

classic ‘‘Essay on Diskonese.’’ This. marvelous
invention does indeed deserve such praise and
more. As few of those close to it will argue: The
Frisbee, with its numerous clones, is one of the
greatest concepts known to man.

But what lies behind it, how does it work?
What is the secret of the flighty phenomenon of
saucersoidal motion, the essence of The Frisbee?
Most people are so intimidated as to believe the
physics behind The Frisbee’s function incompre-
hensible, yet it can be explained with only a
minimum of rhetoric and compleximetric terms.

The motion of The Frisbee is descriptively
simple, involving the interraction/combination of
only two frames of reference. I call these the

C. Cross-Sectional
Construction

long-term and short-term frames, the former
involving the initial trajectory and subsequent
flight pattern, the latter concerning ‘itself with the
rotational stabilizing effects and stationary

E. Interior. Vicor

transition forces. The reconciliation of the two
frames is easily attained with a single cycloidic
function, integrated along: the circumference of
the disk: however, I feel this to be an easy out, so
I leave the derivation of the equation to the
reader.

As is obvious from diagram B, the long-term
motion is merely a two-dimensional trajectory
modified by aerodynamic lift. The initial force
indicated can be simply resolved into horizontal,
vertical, and tangential components, so that one

makes it go up, one makes it go sideways, and
one makes it spin. After it is in the air, the disk
(or diskette if you will) has three forces acting on
it—frictional drag slowing it back, air pressure
pushing it up, and gravity, pulling it down. It’s as
simple as one, two, three, four, five. All this time,
the spinning of the mass is having diverse effects:

_ on the flight, making necessary an analysis of the

‘“‘short-term’’ motion.

Diagram C clearly indicates the precessional
position of The Frisbee. The torque, gamma,
equals the moment of inertia multiplied by the
angular acceleration, alpha. This tells us intuit-

B, TRasecto RY

v2 " f

ively that the omega vector is in the negative ‘x’
direction (taking the ground as zero) for a
right-handed person (if he utilizes the classical
Frisbee toss). Thus, a frictional drag (in the
negagive ‘y’ direction) induces precession in the
negative ‘z’ direction, assuming a right-handed

co-ordinate system.
D. Top View

And there we have it: the workings of The
Frisbee in Layman’s terms. The stability of the
thing accrues from the angular momentum which
in turn accrues from the aforementioned inertial
movement.

Pulling these facts together, it becomes
apparent that the solution of the motion boils
down to one simple equation, comparable in
clarity only to Schroedinger’s:

. + Z (awyz)).
m Pes HOO iy
+ Kacaual - 5

Fa coS @ + FosinSo - wi Oe -mg Q&D.

(for verification, see Dr. Robert Manning, D111)

Just stick in the necessary constants and crank
this baby up. You'll be the star of your Ultimate |
Frisbee team.

(Editor’s.note: Jeff Herrin is, in his own words,
“a physics major and an ordinary guy.” You can
see him and all the other Physics 633 students in
lab in front of Belk most afternoons.)

ul

salad, bread, ice tea,

‘Wow, another FIJI Italian Dinner!’

$3.50 all you can eat, |
Sat. April 4th at F&M 5:30-7:30 PM

Spaghetti & meatballs, Italian. sausage,

and foamy amber beverage.

Sponsored by FlJl

