Hunter Monroe appointed to Media Board

ae -The SGA° unanimously approved the appointment of
sophomore Hunter Monroe to fill a vacancy on the Media Board.

Hunter’ s a was approved at the 13 October SGA meeting.

Speak. Out’s constitution promises “to promote awareness OF es 5
respect for, and adherence to the Roman Catholic teaching .
prescribed by the Magisterium of the Church, and to foster~
understanding of the danger of Marxist or Communist ideas, which -

are intrinsicaly opposed to religion and political liberty.” .
One student goverriment officer feels her organization is being
unfair: “The. group doesn’t go against any of the university’ $-
standards, so they should have been allowed on campus. It just:
wasn’t fair at all. There are other controversial Organizations on

Colleges Go Semana ;
A growing number of colleges and universities are converting
. . from quarter to semester systems. They are switching for both
academic and financial considerations.

About 70% of the nation’s colleges are presently on the
semester system. Other schools are considering the conversion
because of advantages such as the reduced costs of having ‘one less

~-registration period and affording a greater opportunity for t in-depth
study.

The University of Florida offered programs throughout the
campus to prepare the students for the university's conversion. This
did not stop student complaints, however. One student complained
that, ““We have to spend a lot more time in school now, and a lot of

Commons’ Social
The SGA will host the second Studie faculty social I today. |
The social will be from 4:30 p.m. — 5:30 p.m. downstairs in the
Commons.
SGA President Chip Legerton: said the first social was a
“tremendous success.” The SGA expected 50 to 60 people, butt Chip
said there were over 120:people at one time.

| request. Second class postage no. USPS 149.300 1.

students don’t have the need for in-depth study of every subject.

Once you get into. your major, it makes sense, but for some courses

“it doesn’t because you're not going to retain a lot of that anyway.”

Communists Canned

The “Marquette University student government is refusing to
fund a new student group that wants to distribute anti-communist
propaganda at the college. According to the College Press Service,
this reflects a supposed nationwide shift to rightest opinion on

campus.

The student government refused to recognize the group, Speak

Out, because “it doesn’t elect its officers democratically.”

Speak Out feels that political views should not be a

determining factor in student funding. .

Chip said one purpose of the social is to improve faculty and
student relations. He urged students to bring a professor or a friend.

Refreshments at the social will include wine. non- alchoholic
punch, cheese and crackers, and other hors da’ ceuvres.

Petition to oust Watt

The Davidson chapter of North Carolina-Public Interest
Research Group (NC-PIRG) is circulating a Sierra Club petition
requesting the resignation of Secretary of the Interior James Watt. .

The petition charges that Watt “‘is seeking to defy decades of -
legislation to protect our natural’ resources’ ’ and “is representing
private economic interests... ;

Posted copies of the petition are in Chambers, the Union Café

and other locations around campus. People are also circulating
copies on Patterson Court. |

Tim Whalen News Editor
JeffMann Asst. News Editor
FrancesPalmer Asst. News Editor

John Siman Editor
Dave Banks ‘Executive Editor

The Ravtacdbden ia guntenes Widow duthgshe eabee!
year by the students of Davidson College. Address cor-
respondence to: Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC
20036. Phone 704/882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices lo-
cated on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subecrip-
tions cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on

Roy Fuller Features Editor
AnneGoodwin Features Editor
Newton Allen Asst. Features Editor

Steve Soud Sports Editor

ite

James Moore Production Manager
Lisa Buckley Head Compositor
Kathy Gingrich Compositor
John Lusk Compositor

James Barrat: Opinions Editor
Danny Armistead WorldView Editor
Lucy Everett Calendar Editor

David Graybeal Advertising Manager i :
-ScotMyers Subscription Manager — BillAppleton Art Editor

Jim Rumley. Staff Artist

Paul Schulz Staff Artist

Todd Swofford. Staff Artist

EricLong Head Photographer
‘Mark Sheffield Photo Production

he tee

Delivery
‘service:

- 892-8686

“| DAMIDSONIAN Friday. 1@.October 981

