Open office

Cillege Prvsidtot Sain Spe ih tave <i tepals Orcs Gach
Thursday at 10:30 am. All students are welcome to come to ask

questions and to meet Dr. Spencer.
New piano

The music nt has a new Steinway Concert Grand
Piano. The Class of 1981 and Mr W. K. Forbes "28 contributed the
piano in memory of Dr. Donald Plott.

Professor James Swisher gave a dedicatory recital on. Friday 11
September in Hodson Hall. The recital included a composition,
“Touch and Go: A Flourish,for Piano,” written particularly for the

- recital by Music Professor Wilmer Welsh. ‘

SGA elections

Elections for SGA setiators will be on Tuesday; September 9.

Freshmen will elect three class senators. Those running are:
Craig . Detweller, Carlton Clinkscales, Rod Hoeman, Kelly
Sundberg, Alva Moore, and Steve Byers. Also, Laura Taft,

- JWarren Gould, Jeffrey McEwen, Tim McGaughery, and Steve
MacMillan: ©

Those. running for the two. off campus positions are Melissa
McKeithen, Scott Eblen, and Deepak Sawhney.

Residents in Little dorm will elect Either Steve Laurence or
Shannon Anderson, and either Bryan Sloan, Joe Ford, Ken
Howarth, or George Ibrahim will represent Wattts.

Carole Jolly, Kay Boyd, Anne Hurt, and Florence Hart are
running for the Cannon position. Sentelle residents will elect either

Hunter Monroe,:Tom Cartee, Todd Beck, Chuck Lifford, or Mark: : on weekdays. The weekend schedule stays the same.

Oldenburg.

~ Connie Terry or Warner Hall will represent Duke dorm. Those
running for Richardson Dorm senator are Kerry Howbrook, Meg
Surrat, Elizabeth White and Suzy Hohman.

Irvin residents will elect either Hill Stockton, Anne Rollins, or.

Lanier, Brown, Marshall Dent, Roy Fuller, J. C. Faulkner, Hall
Barnett, Burt Taylor, Paul Baynard, and Joe Calvin are running for
the Knox position.

Belk freshman will elect two senators. Those running are
Charles Tiches, Jim Kemper, Scott Brady, Joe Langley; Jim Reaves,

Todd Sachtjer, and Will Whitaker. Upperclass Belk residents will
~~ elect either Lee Me€Conmiek;: Boe narer Rob Spaugh, or Rob .

Singleton.
Students can vote fron 9 am:to3 pm in Chambers or at the Post
Office.

Davidson gets.new computers. : |
The staff of the computer center and the Prime Computer
Corporation are installing two new computer systems. The systems

will provide new computing resoyices for students, faculty, and

administrative staff.

_ The computer center will t héein installspion of the Prime 750 on
September 21. The new computer center, located in the old doctors’
offices on Railroad Street, and a terminal room in Chambers’ south

‘basement will house the terminals and PRE: ‘System: Manager

ribs eco bir’ will jaa in ge

te 5 ta
f ane ies a @
4 oc! . &
4 u * x -

pening volleyball class cancelled

‘The Physical Educsation. ‘Department has caloglied: sth
beginning volleyball course. It will offer an advanced volleyball
course for experienced volleyball players in:its place.

According to Physical Education Secretary Laura Moore, the
new advanced course will.offer more practice time for the new
women’s and men’s volleyball clubs.

» Pat Miller and Lou Ortmayer will be working with the class.

Garden club sale on Saturday
The Davidson Garden Club will sponsor a sale on Sithedini 26
September featuring plants, baked goods, hand crafts, and “attic

_ treasures.”.-

_ The club is celebrating i its twenty-fifth anniversary and will give

the twenty-fifth customer a free hanging fern.
"The sale is from 9 am to 1 pny on the Village Green. The club
will use the proceeds for donations to various wildflower groups and

- for projects such as the beautification of the lawn at the fertilizer

plant on MainStreet:

New breakfast hours

The Commons has changed it breakfast hours. Mealcard
holders will be able to get breakfast anytime between 7 am and 10:30
am. Breakfast hours previously ended at 8:45 am.

Those students without mealcards wishing to purchase a
continental breakfast may do so from 8:45 — 10:30 am. The cost is
$1.

The new hours will be in effect starting Monday and only apply

Accident on Concord Road

A pick-up swerving to avoid another car ran into a student’s

: glced car beside the Union on Wednesday. Another student’s car

was also damaged in the incident.

According to Davidson city Police Chief R.H. Mills, the right
front wheel of the city-owned pick-up “grabbed” when driver Sam
Whitley. tried to avoid hitting Davidson senior Newton Allen who
was pulling out of a private drive.

Whitley hit John Lawrey’s 1977 Toyota c causing it to hit a 1980
Audi owned by Sophomore Joe Calvin.-No one was injured in the

—incident, ‘but-Chief Mills estimated about-$2300 in damages to the:

three vehicles.
Chief Mills filed no charges because there was “no obvious
violation.”

New name for Careers Office

The Office for Experiential Programs and Life/Work Piqnning

has changed its name to the Careers Office.

The Careers. Office has also made necessary program. .
modifications. The functions of the office are 1) to assist students
-with Career Exploration, 2) to assist students with Experiential

Learning, and 3) to assist students with Placement.
Interested students should contact Ken Wood i in the Guidance
Department located i in the basement of the Union. -

sa

‘TimWhalen News Editor

John imen Editor. Frances Palmer Asst. News Editor

cairns Executive Editor

‘ Roy Fuller Features Editor

_ AnneGoodwin Features Editor
_ NewtonAllen Asst. Features Editor
Earl Wooten Asst. Features Editor

+ $teveSoud SportsEditor

. DannyArmistead WorldView Editor ,

James Barrat Opinions _ JeffMann ManagingEditor
’ James Moore Asst. Managing Editor
LaurieSoper Production Assistant

Lisa Buckley Head Compositor

BillAppleton ArtEditor
JimRumley Staff Artist
PaulSchulz Staff Artist
Todd Swofford Staff Artist

Lucy Everett Calendar Editor

David Graybea! Advertising Manager
Scot Myers yupecpued atonal

EricLong Photography Editor
Mark Sheffield Photo Production

