_DAVIDSONIAN

Friday 18 September 1981 -

'N EWS.

grt Athletic Director Eugene B. Bingham reiiue his

health problems. Bingham, 59. and a Davidson alumnus, began
the job in September of last year.

Tom Couch, Assistant Athletic Director and Head Trainer
since July 1974, was relieved of his position as-assistant athletic
director but will retain his job as head trainer.

The College named Head Football Coach Ed Farrell ‘Acting
Athletic Director for the. 1981-82 school year or until a full-time
replacement. can be found. Effective 15 July, the move was
announced while Farrell was vacationing in-Canada. At present
the search committee, chaired by Dr. J. B. Stroud, is inactive.

Lake Campus drowning

Catneus swimming area near the floating dock on June 25.
Lifeguards Jeff Dillard and Joanne MacConnachie were on duty.

Adams was with a group from the Watkins Trucking Line
Company who had reserved the lot.

swimmer and had a history of heart problems...
~ Red’ Cross instructor John Martindale, EMT Bill Gupton,
and an unidentified woman performed CPR and mouth-to-mouth
resuscitation until the ambulance arrived. -
Dillard said the incident was a “freak accident.” “I don’t

| snyones else should,” he added.

during fall convocation.

“Henry -S. Goodwin ’30 and the Exxon Education
Foundation established the award which will be presented
annually to one sophomore, one junior and one senior.

According: to the college catalogue description, each
recipient of the award will be the person in his or her class who
best exemplifies “the highest standards of Davidson College in
character, good sportsmanship, and consideratioon for others.”

post at the end of the 1980-81 school year officially because of .

-. Yancie Adams, 54, of Charlotte drowned in the Lake

Sheriff’s deputies commented that Adams was a poor

have any questions about swimming out there, and I don’t tink ;

‘af ay Three stint will receive the new Goodwin-Exxon Award |

to:assault with a deadly weapon. This charge was ae from

assault with intent to kill. Shackleford was also ordered to. pay
Joe $1,500 and stay from Davidson for three years. ee

_ Joe says he is “85%. recovered” but still feéls pain ~
occassionally and probably will the rest of his life. “The doctor
said when I’m 65 that’ ll make me remember the bastard who shot
me,” Joe said:

Sopliainel hurtin mishap. . 2

A 1981 Ford hit sophomore John Eglin. Tuesday at the
intersection of East 5th and North Poplar Streets in Charlotte.
John. réceived.a fractured left leg. He was reported in satisfactory
condition at Charlotte Memorial Hospital. Charlotte’ resident
Kelly Greenway drove the car. No charges will be filed.

“New chaplain arrives
Davidson alumnus Charles A. Summers became the new

_ College Chaplain in July. Rev. Summers was previously the

pastor of the Sixth Presbyterian Church in Washington, D.C.
Rev. Summers’ job: will. include developing religious
programs, regular student worship services, and personal contact
with students, as will as assisting the Davidson Christian
Fellowship and the Y-Student Service Corps. He will be a guest

preacher at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.
occasionally. ; .

Prof MacCormac receives grant

Philosophy department chairman Earl MacCormac -has
received an Interdisciplinary Incentive Award from the National
Science Foundation. The award is for developing a measurement.
system that utilities commissions. could use in ste ing Tate”
increases to various customers.

Wig

Dr. MacCormac, who is taking a year’ Ss leave of absence, - hee

will be working with NC Utilities Commission’ chairman Bob’
_Koger.. Increasing construction of nuclear power plants such as”
Duke Power’s MCGuire plant make the study i important, a

Philosophy Professor Lance Stell wie . filling i in as head of :

penile : Fraceoe Baber. Asst. News Editor am

_ RoyFuller Features Editor
podwin FeaturesEditor —
ton | Pragoacnior sal

=. Ecco

Re es

_Danny Armistead WorldView Editor
: Lucy Everett CalendarEditor —

Devid Greybea Advertising Manager ..
neice Subscription Manager

“Erle Long Photography Editor anit
Sheftie! ‘Photo Production

~ “Laurie Soper Production Assistant
tenn Head Compositor 8

|Appleton ArtEditor
Paulson Staff Artist
by E StaffArtist

_ James Moore . ‘Asst. Managing Editor:

Me Students, faculty, staff, and townspeople will make the — the ceperomen :
~~ nominations, and a committee consisting of students, faculty, s:
sa “and the administrative staff will choose the recipients.
| Written nominations should include reasons: for the - Che
ee students’ fomination, and they should be submitted to Will Terry WDAV gets new. tower : : ee
by October 1. - Radio. Station WDAYV (89.9 FM) « was off he: air for nine 3
it | days in July while moving its bradcasting tower. The tower was ~~
“‘Hattie’s’ gunner gets stiaociiaa sentence . ce moved approximately four miles south of Davidson to Caldwell
_ Robert. Shackleford. pleaded guilty on August 28 to the _—_ Station, and WDAV returned to the air on July 21. Q
shooting of junior Joe Leman at the 12 March 1981 traditional © According to WDAYV station manager John ‘Clark, The >:
“Hattie’s Night” party. Shackleford received.a seven year move and the power increase Se nnceny Hip Ned. our ‘signal
anon sentence oe to Joe. “aencaeet plowed ey ‘slanity, particularky to the south,”
. = TimWhaten News Editor ‘iesieaharat Opinions bes sett insaiog ‘Managing Editor

