page 4

DAVIDSONIAN

Friday 25 September 1981

1e Honor Systen

How the campus sees it aig ae

by Anne Miano 85
“The only guide to a man is his conscience; “the as
shield to his memory is the rectitude and sincerity of his
actions. It is very imprudent to walk through life with-

out this shield, because we are so often mocked by the
failure of our hopes and the upsetting of our caleula- -
tions; but with this shield, however the fates may play, :

we march always in the ranks of honor.”

Sir Winston Churchill i the House of Commons, 1 1940 =
_Ay stent wh has ha any contact wth David

as far as to apiply

ing a reaction essay on the Pamphiet. .
Once ‘a dedent-anives at-Davideon to: beais his

freshman year, he bocomes caught up in a whirlwind of
activities known as “orientation.” However, all be- -
comes calm as the freshmen file into Love Auditorium

to hear the “Presentation on the Honor Code.” The hall
couselors have taken roll, and no one has dared to be
absent.

It’s a sacred thing at Davidson, this Honor Code.

People take special pains to make it perfectly clear that
the Honor Code is serious business and no one is to ig-

‘nore it. From the very first day until graduation, the

Honor Code is a way of life for a Davidson student.
Oris it? When the speeches end, when the pamph-

lets are thrown away. and the freshman year is over,
- doesn’t follow the rules. They’ ve heard all about “vio-

does the Honor Code end up on the shelf, stuffed be-
hind an old Humanities book?

Many. ‘upperclassmen say “no.” " [All students. .

quoted directly, or indirectly in this article asked to re-

main unidentified.) Although ee sia that they’ ee

- pill with one check. CN :
3 _ Sin he tated bet hs aces wer de |

written the’ seis “pledge” on. their papers so‘ many
times that it has become a part of their names, a special

“sense of pride” returns right around exam time when
everyone takes his tests at different times, but no one

~ discusses them, At other. schools students spend more

time trying to think of ways to cheat instead of ways to uP

study. So at the end of a semester, Davidson seems dif-

ferent from the rest; just because of an Honor Code.
Freshmen starting out at Davidson are bombarded

- by the Honor Code. They also feel scared, threatened,
_ and intimidated. A slip of a footnote and one’s college
la y heard : o —<— bey think: sient es ga
ee an ee As,
-chill blazing aeross the front. If a student decides ogo
y for admission, he finds himself writ-

peer ocpanebhab ig ee aa
and what’s wrong. I could make a mistake without ev-
Dri, cog homes nes extinct
- fear. The fear causes mistrust of the
-because I’m not really. sure what I’m dealing with.

‘Honor Code: itself
Many freshmen cannot find the line, and for them, the

‘Honor Code is frightening.

‘For many it is better than the Pamphlet said that it
would be. Over and over freshmen say that the Honor

Code was one:reason that they chose Davidson, and ©
they. haven’t been disappointed yet. They like leaving
books in the library arid keeping their doors unlocked.

They are confident that the system is working and feel a
strong obligation: to live by the rules.
Students also know what hapens when someone

lations,” “Honor Councils,” and Mg minimum.of two
semesters, ” They've heard all the'rumors and the sto-
ries about other students who violated the Honor Sys-

tem itd =“ sa pasty from, oo

by doh Marks ‘25.
Wee An separate. ‘¢ases, two’ Davidson. seiteati: stole .
sare ‘over $3,000 from a campus organization between Feb-
uney $500 nal May 1981. <
oo Te “eee pane

barra

}

Dealing with Honor violations is an important part
of the Honor System. People sometimes wonder if the
system is fair-to those found guilty of offenses. Many
students even feel that two semsters is “pretty strict be-
cause anybody can make:a mistake.” However, mnost
upperclassmen feel that people.who come to Davidson.

have agreed not to make mistakes. “You've agreed to.
abide by the System even before. you get here.” Most

students don’t feel, ‘any resentment toward the System
and trust that Honor violations are dealt with fairly and

. forthe student’s benefit. “No one likes tokick someone

out, but we all know the rules..The. Davidson campus
the doesn’t suffer because it Joses someone who broke

them.”
Teachers are happy. with the Honor System. They
feel it really works, especially during tests. They like to

be able to pass out a review anid then leave the room if

they need to. They have complete trust in honor-bound

‘students.

_.- There are people who do feel that although David-
son. deals with the problem of violations, it often

“forgets to.look at the cause. The.“‘paper chase” is alive

and well at Davidson, just as it is at other highly com-
petitive institutions. The emphasis on grades and ex-
cellence is so strong that students often feel pressures
that are difficult to deal with.:Sometimes even a “good
student” can find himself cutting corners off the Honor
Code just to keep up with Davidson’s high academic
expectations. That problem, unfortunately, is some-
thing that the System just doesn’t provide for. _
Nevertheless, the Honor Code ‘is something that
the Davidson community is proud of. It’s a “practical

affirmation of a value.” Dean Terry said, “It involves a

lot of ‘sacrifice; but in the end, it teaches the value of
living honorably.” No matter what goes on in the world
outside, Davidson will be different, and that makes the
entire System worth it. .

The. settlement entails the student's repaying. the
total amount stolen, plus. paying for a portion of the.

costs of i investigating his case. He has already repaid all

but $300. of the stolen money and har pelo to re-

Neen tert shortly.

See Becket ceas :
*:tleaticcord aks eater cist ncpes

The a checks between 18 March and 12 May 1981. In one in-
~ stance he wrote a check to a friend for $650. He also

ve overpaid his salary as an officer of the victimized or-
_ Gamlization’ by over half and made frequent long dis-

his case was. not referred to the Honor Council.

Toma ofthe case a otk at ne tle

be tance personal calls that he billed to the College.

He has returned justunder $850 — the full sont

line he owed — to the otganization

His ‘case was referred. to Dean Terry, who sus-

pended him for two terms. There was not an Honor

Council trial. The student has not admitted his guilt ex-
o plicitly but agreed eoactept tie punistiment determined
by the Dean.

The student i is eligible to return to Davidson for
spring term.
The re not taking legal a action against eith-

_ er aden
