With Archie Bunker-style paranoia,
many Americans perceive communism
threatening us on all sides with values
radically different from the ones we
espouse as citizens of a ‘‘Christian’”’
nation. The notion that St. Paul, the
second most influential figure in the New
Testament, may be “Marxist” comes,
then, as somewhat of a surprise. Yet
Paul and Marx express similar criticisms
of, and hopes for, human society.

Paul and Marx are revolutionary
ideologists. They are revolutionary in
that they see human society in need of
transformation that would come about
by a complete, revolutionary break with
the past; ideologists in that they both
have a vision of a new society in which
man will finally be fulfilled and will live
in a new relationship with his surroun-
dings. To be sure, the character of the
revolutions they support is quite differ-
ent. Marx seeks to destroy existing
social structures and thereby heal rela-
tionships between men; Paul sees it
working the other way around. And, of
course, Marx is an avowed atheist, while
Paul certainly is. not. However, Marx’s
and Paul’s societies, both before and
after the revolution, manifest many of
the same characteristics.

Marx describes pre-revolutionary man

as estranged from the products of his
own labor, from his own life-activity,
from nature and his essential being, and
from all other men. This alienation arises
because labor supresses man’s creativity
and denies his connection to nature.
“The worker therefore only feels himself
outside his work, and in his work feels
outside himself.”’

Paul also sees life before the revolution
{i.e., without Jesus Christ) as a life of
death and unfulfillment, devoid of
purpose and joy. Sin, death, and
alienation pervade all of nature, dooming
nature to futility and decay (Rom
8:19-21). Man, to both Marx and Paul,
spends his life in ultimately worthless
activity, pursues the wrong goals,
remains unfulfilled, and lives in separa-
tion from his fellow men.

We have all known people who take no
pride in their work, who are filled with
resentment for the boss, who, in truth,
hate their jobs. They work only for
Friday’s paycheck so that they can then
“really live.’’ They seem to be merely
existing, not living. We are all this way
to some extent: many studdents aim for
a good GPA which will lead to a good
grad school, a good job, material
success, and—viola—‘“‘happiness.”’

One of the major causes for man’s

April 24, 1981 —The Davidsonian—3

Paul, is private property. The urge to
save money in order to buy commodities
deprives man of all sense of ‘‘general
interest,” Marx wrote. Paul urged the
Corinthians to give freely of their money
and denounced the false security and
well-being man derives from material
things. Both felt that private property
enslaves man.

Marx proposed abolishing private
property in order to emanicipate man. A
propertyless communist society would
resolve the conflict between man and
nature and between man and man. Man
would live not for himself, but for
society. His participation in the world
around him would renew ‘“‘each of his
human relations to the world—seeing,
hearing, smelling, tasting, feeling, thin-
king, being aware, sensing, wanting,
acting, loving—in short, all the organs
of his individual being.”’

Paul also advocated ending man’s
bondage to ‘‘things.’’ This would free
men to care for one another, to achieve
true selfhood by living for others. Paul
used the analogy of the body of
Christ —each member works for the
common good and helps other members
develop into their full potential. Each is
free to ‘‘lead the life which the Lord has
assigned him.’’ (I Cor. 7:17)

Like the communist man, the Chris-
tian is renewedand re-sensitized. Both
Marxand Paul see this re-sensitizing
arising from man’s new community and

Cogito ergo sum

Paul and Marx
: | dayne Ransom |

. alienation according to both Marx and

his freed community attitude. ~

The need for a new world community
is more and more pressing today.
“‘North-south economics’’ appals us with
reports of the still-widening gap between
third-world countries and our own.
Three-fourths of the world’s population
receives an annual per capita income of
$700 or less, and subsists on only
one-fifth of the world’s gross planetary
product (GPP). In our own country,
20% of our population receives only 5%
of our country’s total income, while
another 20% receives 42% of this
income.

Do the solutions proposed by Paul and
Marx sound utopian? They are! But who
is to say that utopias are completely
unattainable? Doesn’t the plain fact that
men as different as St. Paul and Karl
Marx had similar visions of the ideal
society show that there is a longing deep
within man for freedome from loneliness
and selfishness, freedom to express
himself in his totality, and to truly love
others in their totality? Paul and Marx
are related in many ways. Aren’t we, as
humans, also related to our communist
brothers, in our basic needs and hopes?
The first step toward reconciliation is
mutual understanding. Is it really too
farfetched to think that perhaps some-
day Christians and communists may
work together for a better world?

Jayne Ransom ig a junior religion
major from Devon, Pennsylvania.

‘King’s seminars gave Whites a ‘Black Experience’ for an afternoon

By JOHN KROTCHKO

subject matter, for padding answers,

for being

Features Editor

Editor’s note: Dr. Charles King: founder and
President of the Urban Crisis Center in Atlanta, gave
two seminars on “‘racial sensitivity’’ Monday and
Tuesday. Features editor John Krotchko attended the
seminars, and describes his reactions below.

I was nervous, embarrassed, upset, confused and
sweating profusely. The neat academic mind set I had
been cultivating at Davidson for two years was being
shaken at the foundations by the raging attacks of a
huge, bull-like black man named Dr. Charles King.

I was trapped in a ring in the 900 Room with about 25
students, professors and others experiencing what I
had naively thought was going to be nothing more than
another fiery lecture and some follow-up chit-chat on
‘Racial Sensitivity,’ sponsored by the Black Student
Coalition and the Union. But two minutes after I sat
down I was tumbling in an unorthodox game of
emotions in which awful truth and artful force came
together for three terrible, terrific hours. I’ll never
forget it.

The seminar began innocently enough when King
askes us to focus our discussion on ‘“‘Blacks and Whites
in Urban America.’’ We agreed to be honest, relate no
personal experiences to illustrate our convictions, and
to speak of everything in a black/white context. It was
easier said than done.

Then King played a tape of a man reciting song lyrics
which began:

Are you listening to the musicf

I am.

Are you looking at the children?

Iam.

And I see some of them in the cities,

And some_in the towns, - -

Just doing things.

And they seem to be crying out) “Help me, help me,
help me!”

And you know...

We haven't really given them much to work with.

He asked us what we had heard. Our responses were
met with condemnation for evading the issue of the rac
of the man (black), for ‘‘intellectualizing’”’. the racial

insensitive to the social message. Those who objected
to the set interpretations he wanted were met with fits
of temper and rudeness, and once, the command to
“shut up and learn something.’’ He proceeded without
mercy to bully, dominate and manipulate us with the
seasoned skill of an angry demagogue. He showed us
the defenses we hid behind and our reluctance to face
the issue of racism, ‘‘He cut me up and squashed me
into the ground,” one freshman later remarked.

In the seminar, he attacked the subtler complacency
of ‘‘innocent’’ white society which tacitly, if not
actively, condones a social system with the blacks on

‘the bottom. The police, the courts, the schools—all

white— impose on blacks a white system of living that
robs them of dignity and identity.

This results in the ghetto and all its evils: despair,
apathy, alcoholism, poor education, ‘‘white fear’’ and
more. Twelve percent of the black population of
America is in jail, he railed furiously. ‘‘Progress? I will
admit to no such lies.’’

He shoved our noses into the admission: Whites were
all to blame. The man was black. We are prejudiced.
Unable to communicate rationally any honest feelings
or experiences that did not fit into this system, a
number of us in the group sat torpidly in our seats,
smouldering with frustration. I wanted to believe what
he said, but he had confused me to the point where I
could not tell if I was being honest anymore or
compromising to please him. Many were all too willing
to submit wholeheartedly to his brutal demagoguery.

Other reactions were more colorful. Tears, adamant
defensiveness, anger and brilliant displays of courage
punctuated the afterrioon as valiant souls took him on

one-on-one. But he was clever, and persisted-in- ~~~

on ~agae gore

uncovering defense mechanisms, misconceptions and
prejudices.

Toward the end of the seminar, King revealed his
trump card, saying ‘““Youv’e been had.”’ We had all felt
used and abused, but did not suspect that it was
intentional. I had simply branded him as a black racist.

But he described my feelings exactly: ‘You just look,
sulk, sit, get angry and after awhile...you just don’t
give a damn anyone.” He had forced us to feel ‘‘exactly

Dr. Charles King confronts a somber group of students
in his Racism Sensitivity seminar.

how black people feel,’” by creating an oppressive black
system of looking at the truth, a system intentionally
designed to stifle the free expression of the whites in the
room.

“We get outside of this room just what you got inside
of this room!’’ he explained, no longer the belligerent
demagogue.

Several black students were asked to elaborate.
“Everybody wants the same thing,” said one, ‘“‘but
we've got to do something special to get what we
want.” Another added, ‘I feel. I’ve cheated pan
because I compromise.”’ These were my classma'
friends, each ereue dre that sick feeling. I | hed that

) th and live with. Oh, yes, racial sensitivity.

Underscoring King’s program (which NBC is filming
for a 90-minute feature in September) is the vital hope
that change can occur in urban America if white
Americans are truly sensitized to the pathos and
tragedy of the black situation today. The black

audience was unanimous with King in that white

society alone can change things.
“It works, dear friends, it works.”’ he said. ‘“‘When i

leave them, they understand.”
