10—The Davidsonian— January 30, 1981

In veritate magna vis a ee OY Destructo 69

By THE BRICK BROTHERS and THE DOUGHBOYS

Bear. Now that’s out of the way. We’re not doing IMAC
anyore, so the big question is whatis the next most important
thing we could think of to write about? Well, how about them
hostages or Reagan or the Super Bowl or Vinson House? No.
Let’s write about self-selection.

First, when is self-selection? Well, we don’t exactly know
when, but then again, nobody else does either and furthermore,
they won’t know for a while and when they do, it’ll be later than
it would be for it to have mattered anyway. Self-selection. Think
about it—why would you select. yourself in the first place? Most
people would rather have someone élse,.After all, you can or How 00 wy Pe THAT,
always have yourself. Maybe it should be:self-conscription. On AB Mas GERRARD
second thought, let’s have Philosophy Department Chairman
Rob Campany .and his understudies get together and really
confuse things in an enlightened fashion. Enough of this schoat.
Let’s move on and fake a sentimental journey around Patterson
Court. and help those freshmen make a decision that will
determine Percy Badham’s future happiness:

PKA —Does PIKA still mean foozball? Only in America could
this group of overweight, unshaven, non-athletic, overly
academic, and Wildcat-basketball-crazed young men come.
together and form a ‘‘fraternity.’’ Founded by Horatio Alger in
1893, this cinderella story of a fraternity has reached its
midnight. Don’t forget your slippers. Also, this horse had. the -
discretion to elect a hall counselor as its Rush Chairman, a move
heartily enddorsed by national PIKA advisor Bert Lance. In Why settle for just an M BA?
conclusion, Mark Carpenter (lonely weekends) may be Patterson
Court’s answer to Herschel Walker, but he simply can’t do it all. ,
Our recommendation: don't join; you can throw a football

PHT DELT Join if you dare. This bunch hates all fraternities Rice University’s Jones Graduate school

at Davidson, including their own. The big question here is
finances; Graham crackers get old after a while. They've tried
everything to raise money—from recycling broken dorm
windows to selling ‘‘used’’ lamp posts. These gentlemen, led by offers much more
a strong defensive line, dominate Will terry’s Top Ten. The
social program has run the gamut from air guitar parties to air
Roman orgies to. air meals. As a silver-haired sage of the @ Our curncula are innovative, challenging and demanding
gridiron once proclaimed, ‘‘This fraternity is not a game. It’s a
war.’’ OUr recommendation: evade the draft.
SAE—Rich yet obnoxious. These guys have imported more
than Pier Seven: a high tariff could cast them into financial
insolvency. The SAE’s have an excellent collection of ‘‘trains,’’
particularly the Meredith models. This is a house of . .
paradoxes—most money, worst furniture; most volume, worst @ Our classes are intentionally kept small
music; Pat Sheridan, John Thompson. What’s really needed
here is a button remover. These guys wish they had Mark . _. .
Carpenter, but they really couldn’t use him unless they were in @ Our faculty IS distinguished
Rock Hill. The best thing about this house is that one fourth of
them graduate every year. More than that, one half of them
graduate every two years. If you haven’t heard of Stuart Y i ION “
Bondurant and Jack Sullivan by now, you better ask somebody. @ Our location, Houston, is the nation’s fastest
Our recommendation: take your duck shoes elsewhere.
KA—Golly gee. What a swell bunch of fellas. This is the best . .
place in the world to not do what you thought you might enjoy growing business center
doing. Girls once adored the Southern Gentleman, but feminine
discontent has transformed this house into a part of the

@ Our students are carefully selected

Dominican order. Milk is a natural but don’t tell any of the fellas Plan to visit our representative on campus to discuss our programs.
how you get it out of a cow. Trivia question— What do KA’s do ;
when they ‘‘circle8up’’, (without dates of course)? If Robert E. esda _
Lee had only known who idolized him, HE would have burned Tu Y, February 3, 1981 1 PM-3PM
Atlanta. These doggone hard-chargin’ sons of biscuiteaters are |’ 4 . . .
the toughest bunch this side of Reagan’s son. but still, they’re Office for Experiential Programs and Life/Work Planning
really neat and have one of the keenest flickerball teams on
campus. ae Master of Business and Public Management.
Our recommendation: join, everybody else does.
RUSK — Frustration in the shape of a spud. Who eats more than Master of Accounting

Renee? Social projects include a medieval mixer with Belmont

Abbey. Bring your own Xerox machine. Hi Carie. One of the . nofi, out
most feminine things about Rusk is that it serves foo ‘geared to Please send an app cation and a brochure ab

women” which almost, but not quite, compensates for them : Rice Univ rsit) lad nes Graduate School to:
having the women’s field hockey team. Check your chromo- e e sJo

somes.

The house is well-governed—meetings tend to resemble a
Saturday in San Salvador. If you cry, I won’t. You know, if | ° NAME
Rusk were a sorority, they’d be just like they are now.

Our recommendation: don’t sit next to Renee unless you want

to lose alimb. ; ; ADDRESS
EVERYBODY ELSE ON THE COURT —If you don’t fit in
with any of the above pathologies, try joining one of these CITY STATE ZIP

places. They are most appropriate for people who ate in their
rooms as freshmen. Each is distinctive in its own way, but ;

there’s not much to say;about them as.a group, 80 we won't . COLLEGE DEGREE DATE
Our’ recommendation: don’t sit -by Renee, emulate Mark
Carpenter, don’t play foozball, don’t: shag don’t cross a field

ure player unless you want your chromosomes checked, and Rice University Rice University is an equal
means, don’t shotgun. The barrel is pointed at you. Can’t Jones. Graduate School of Administration oo .

| wait for the Commons. : , : opportunity /affirmative
P.O. Box 1892 ppo ny

We apologize to Tim Bethea, whose article ““Orten’ What the . . ee ce
Butler Saw brings Comedy to studio workshop” was attributed Houston, TX 77001 (713) 527-4893 action institution.
to Tim Betuen in last week’s paper.
