February 6, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

Fiscal conservatism makes

for small investment returns —

By JOHN RICHARDS
Staff Writer ~

Davidson's conservative fiscal policies
have yielded‘the College a 66% increase
in its endowment over the past 12
years—but in constant dollars the
endowment has shrunk significantly.
Davidson's present, $22.9 millionendow-
ment is worht 30% less than the $13.8
million endowment of 1967-68 when one
make adjustments for inflation.

Endowment performance is crucial,
for the endowment provides a large
source of income for College operations.

Thus, mediocre performance of the
endowment over the past 12 years has
resulted in a smaller contribution of
investment income towards annual Col-
lege expenditures. This means the
College faces tighter finances overall.

The College uses income from the
investment of the endowment in three
ways:

—First, some of the return is rein-
vested to help offset constant dollar
value losses entailed by inflation.

—Second, some of the return is from
restricted trusts, which must be used for
specific purposes such as building funds
and scholarship programs.

—Third, the rest of the return is put
towards the College’s annual operating
budget as the College sees fit. The
greater the return, the more the College
has to spend on items from faculty com-
pensation to physical plant operations.
Furthermore, a large return lessens the
College’s reliance on other sources of
income—such as students’ tuition—to
finance operations.

From 1967 until 1979, the investment’

management firm of Scutter, Strens and
clark earned the College an annual yield
of between five and seven percent on its
endowment, almost the average for
colleges nationwide.

However, some entries note that if
Davidson had performed better than
average, it would have increased the
endowment earnings by from $10 to $20
- million.-

This estimate is based on the above
average yields of the top 25% (first
quartile) of the nation’s college endow-
ment management firms. Had the
College employed any of these firms it
might have kept abreast of inflation —
which rose about 150% total over the
past 12 years—instead of settling for an
average yield of about 6%. for compari-
son, an average savings account earned
over 5% per annum during this period.

Background

In 1967, Davidson made the move to
have its endowment managed ,profes-
sionally. Before this time, the endow-
ment funds, then totalling $12.7 million,
were managed by the College Finance
Committee.

The change was an important one. In

the previous decade, the endowment had
more, than doubled. Professional man-
agement was expected to ensure sound
investment.

The Davidson administration chose
Scutter, Stevens and Clark, a large
company with an industry reputation for
consistent conservative performance, to
manage the endowment. Their size make
exceptional accomplishment all but im-
possible.

The choice was well in keeping with
the College’s professed fiscal goals of
“fiscal soundness and independence.”

The College could not anticipate the
economic turmoil of the coming decade.
But neither did it adapt to the situation
until 12 years had passed.

The management firm is responsible
for assuring that the endowment fund is
invested according to various criteria
established by the parent institution.

One approach is to assure the greatest
possible yield on endowment. Another is
to assure consistency of yield on the
investment. Earnings usually have to be
sacrificed to assure consistency.

From 1967 until 1970, the endowment
grew from a book value of $12,667,653 to
a book value of $16,123,767, an increase
of 27%.

Other statistics are helpful in deter-
mining growth of endowments. The book
value of an endowment is the price that
the College has paid for the stocks and
bonds that compose the major portion of
the endowment poor. Market value is a
measure of how much the stocks and
bonds are worth if sold on the market.
The difference between book and market
value over a year plus appreciation
largely determines the time weighted
total return on investment (TWTR).

Another measue of growth is the yield
on market value, which is essentially
total endowment income divided by the
net worth of the endowment. The yield is
the actual money realized over the year
from the endowment’s investment, and
thus available for either reinvestment or
expenditures.

In fiscal year 1970-71, the College
established the investment goal of total
return. This method seeks to a sum
figure used to compute the success of the
endowment. This figure was only pub-
lished in 1979-80, after the College had
hired a new investment firm. Until then,
it was kept a secret.

In 1970, over the protest of some
faculty members, the College also de-
cided to institute changes based on a
Ford Foundation study on college in-
vestment strategies. The formula calls
for a normal yield of at least 5% on
eridowment per year, with any extra
yield being reinvested in the endowment.

This policy was also unsuited for
continuation throughout the decade of
the 1920’s. Yet, until 1979, the College

John Calvin sacriiiced for his convictions. His descendants, the founders of Davidson

College, also sacrificed to establish an institution where *‘liberty having arisen, learning
could be cherished’’ (Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas). Thus we were able to receive a
Davidson education for only 60% of its actual cost because previous generations, by

their endowments and annual gifts, provided the other 40%.

But what about the Davidson of tomorrow? If succeeding generations are to enjoy

Davidson we must sacrifice today.

Have you paid your 40% debt to Davidson? Surely, your Calvinistic sense of
‘esponsibility (along with other considerations) will compel you to send a gift to the

1980 Living Endowment today!

(Communications Department)

The point is that income from investments ot the endowment provides money for
Davidson’s annual operating budget. Unfortunately, constant dollar value of the
endowment—and hence annual endowment yield—has fallen in past years.

followed this policy.

Unfortunately, during this time, eco-
nomic forces had caused the inflation
rate to reach record heights. Combined
with recession, especially in 1974-75 and
1977, the market proved disastrous to
conservative fiscal policies.

The College remained with its fiscal

$15 million

The Endowment: yearly value in constant 1967 dollars

$14 million

$13 million

$12 million

$11 million

$10 million

$9 million

1967 1968 1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979

The Endowment: yearly sum contributed to
budget in constant 1967 dollars

650,000 ; ;

600,000 N_ NI

$460,000
4

$400,000

$360,000 1971 1973 1974 1 Sea ien

policies, and the conservative Scutter,
Stevens and Clark management firm for
12 years, until June 30, 1979, and when
it hired the firms of Fayez Sarofim and
Company and Lexington Management
Corporation after a year’s search.

During this twelve year period, the
College endowment grew from $16,105,-
802 to $22,002,926, and increase of
26.8%, but in constant dollars this
represents a loss of 30.5%. This loss
even takes into account the additions of
gifts to the endowment during this time.
The actual loss from investment erosion
is greater.

This past fiscal year, the endowment
had a time weighted total return of
17.6%, which is considerably above the
10% return of the previous year, but still
‘“‘average’’ for the fund management
industry, according to Rodger Reynolds,
an investment broker with E.F. Hutton
in Charlotte.

The E.F. Hutton Management Com-
pany, for example, had a total return of
over 20% in 1979-80.

Analysis

The combined effects of an unstable
economy and the fiscal policy pursued by
the college from 1970 to 1979 have hurt
Davidson. Not only has endorsement
growth been sluggish, but yield on

endowment has been consistently a-

round 6 and 6%.

College Business Manager Robert
Currie: pointed out that this yield is
about average for college endowments
for this period.

Reynolds noted that there is no reason

why ari endowment should not try to be .

managed by a firm with top quartile

earnings every year.

If Davidson had only achieved this
goal for half of the years during the 12
year period, it would have yielded
approximately 40% more money.

Currie has statistics not only on the
average college endowment yields, but
lists of managers who have consistently
(9 years or more) yielded within the top -
quartile upon their investménts. Yet the
college stayed on with Scutter, Stevens,
and Clark for 12 average years.

_ Other statistics reveal the extent of

_ this errosion of the endowment’s actual

contribution to the quality of the college.

Actual growth of the endowment is
important as a resource pool for invest-
ment. ,

Because of the diminishing amount of
endowment income in budgetary func-
tions, students have had to pay an
increasing portion of the total operating
budget. In 1964-65, endowment funds
provided 19% of the College’s annual
operating expenditures. In 1979-80, it
provided about 11%.

An administrator, who would not
allow his name to be used, admitted that
the College has done poorly in the past,
but cited several reasons for optimism.
First, the living endowment is beginning
to bear fruit. Second, since the College
has changed endowment managers, it
has showed a much greater total return.
Finally, there is hope that the 1987
Program will help financial matters
considerably. The latter two points are
contested.

The actual yield on market value
remains low, while the total return still
remains only average. In any case, the
actual percentage of budget that the
endowment covers continues to decline.

Of the $35 million that the College
hopes to raise, only $19 million is slated
for actual improvement of the endow-
ment of the endowment on budgetary
items, which will only help to make up
for ground lost in the past decade in
terms of endowment, faculty compensa-
tion, and student fees.

The rest is slated by the administra-

. tion for building projects.

If inflation and merely average invest-
ment continue, much of the expected
benefits of the 1987 Program will
themselves be lost.

Also, potential investors may be upset
that their money would not be used to its
fullest advantage.

Reynolds recommended that the Col-
lege interview two or three management
firms per year, and attempt to earn the
highest yield possible.
