8—The Davidsonian—February 6, 1981

Flick Talk

For those of you who thought that you could see the discreet
‘charm of the bourgeoisie any night of the week down at SAE
and Rusk, the Fine Films Committee has a pleasant surprise for
you at 8 p.m. next Wednesday in*Love Auditorium. The
Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie is the third feature by
Spanish director Luis
Bunuel to be shown by °
Fine Films this year, and
is easily the best. Perhaps
more aptly entitled Six
Characters in Search of a
Dinner this is a wry, -
humourous. berating of
the morals and manners of
Parisian sophisticates. which skillfully contains considerable
satirical venom. The plot, such as it is, of this dreaming,
surrealistic film, full of discontinuities, ellipses and non-sequi-
turs, concerns the pitiful and repeatedly thwarted attempts of
six members of the haute borgeoisie to dine together.

Led by Fernando Rey, Bunuel’s veteran accomplice as butt of
the.director’s social hatred, the sextet are foiled in their
intentions time and again by sex, drunkenness, military inter-
vention and the whole gamut of niggling, subversive faux pas
against which their perfectly structured artificial environment is
supposed to protect their empty, facile souls. As their social
world disintegrates, so too do their personalities, and Bunuel
portrays his characters repeatedly waking up in terror from
dreams of Tantalus-like torture, their food always left uneaten
as another social embarassment assaults their sense of
propriety. The characters, played to the hilt by Rey, Stephane
Audran, Bulle Ogier and Delphine Seyrig particularly,
increasingly become the victims of Bunuel’s hatred and disgust
at the agents of conspicuous consumption. Finally, it is implied;
they ae irredeemable, lost souls wandering down a country road
leading nowhere, never able to eat, never able to rest. A
powerful, provocative film, charmingly comic, bitingly subver-
sive, full of surrealistic fables and anti-establishment jokes, this
is the work of a master at his very best and should not be
missed.

To whet your appetites earlier in the week, on Friday night in
Love the Pop Films Committee show the erstwhile Oscar-
winning Coming Home, early example of the post-post-trauma
Vietnam film. Jane Fonda performs an increasingly unsteady
balancing act between the demands of the Concerned Cinema
and those of commercial success, and it’s really anybody’s guess
as to which one gets her soul in the end. Jon Voight is superb as
the crippled veteran.

This is followed late on Saturday night by Mike (Catch 22)
Nichol’s Carnal Knowledge, a pioneering attempt at a mature
and reasonable look at the sexual mores of two Americans from
sophomoric steaminess to disillusioned middle age. Jack
Nicholson and Art Garfunkel are the two versions of the
all-American male, Ann-Margret and Candice Bergen the
women unreasonably asked to tolerate them (or vice versa
depending on your viewpoint). Quite a milestone in its day, it
should be worth seeing a second (or even a first) time.

Nick
Graham

Feeling depressed winter term is the
only socially acceptable thing to do

By EFF HERRIN

Features Editor Emeritus

I have discovered yet another
critical area in which the David-
son student body is falling
short, an aspect of social .in-
volvement in which the famed
campus apathy is again the vil-
lain. I refer to those students
who are walking around campus
in a chipper mood. Once again
the season is upon us when
pursuit of the “Winter Blues”
is in vogue, and, while most
students are actively seeking
despondency, there remain die-
hards that thoughtlessly refuse
to participate. This article is
directed toward this uncaring,
uncooperative bunch of moon-
beams.

The greatest obstacle to un-
animity on this subject is an un-
awareness of how great a Dav-
idson Depression can be. Ask
any of the several hundred
“‘downers’”’ now wandering de-

terminedly around campus. If —

they feel like talking, they'll tell
you that feeling sorry for your-
self is the best part of it, but it
goes much further than that.
First, there is a sense of cam-
araderie that can be found only
in exchanging complacent com-
plaints with fellow ‘‘depressos’’
(Yes, I made up all these
words.) Being depressed gives
you the ability to sympathize
with almost everyone’s situa-
tion— it’s comparable only to
‘foxhole friendships.”
. Competition is also a part of
participating in the Davidson
Depression. The skill lies in feel-
ing sorrier for yourself than for
someone else. Witness this ty-
pical Davidson winter-term ex-
change:
‘‘oh, hi. How’s it going?’
‘‘W-e-ll, it’s been o.k..... ”
‘I know what you mean. It’s,

well, it’s just that i've got so
much to do, and don’ t feel like
doing any of it..

“Yeah, well, r ve a review at
eleven and two papers due
tomorrow that I haven't starte-
ed, and..."

“But i've had the flu for a

week, and...”
And so on. The intention is to
let as many folks as possible
know how much worse off you
are than they.

The list of benefits goes on.
Excuseable impoliteness, accep-

but knowledge of these advan-
tages might not be enough for

_ the recalcitrant Davidson stu-

dent. With this in mind, I of-
fer a few of the do’s and don't’s
-on the path to pathos. If care is
taken to follow a few simple
guidelines, we can, with a little
imagination and determination,
easily join the ranks of the win-
ter-afflicted.

A favorite first step is to
watch the evening news and
hear what Ronald Reagan has
to say. This should temper your

table listlessness, and general
thoughtlessness are all part of
the deal. Best of all, participat-
ing in this social sobriety ex-
empts you from being socialble.
Certainly, everyone needs two
or three weeks of this every
winter.

Obviously there are advan-
tages to being winter-manic,

Bell reads poems that your mother wouldn't like

By PETER GULYN

Staff Correspondent
‘‘The delicate bird who is
flying up your asses/is flying
up mine, also....’"’ Words like
these won literary prizes dur-

ing the turbulent period of the ©

late 60’s.
This is the first line of a. poem

by Marvin Bell, a well-known.

poet and teacher of poetry who
has published many such
strongly-worded controversial
poems. Bell will visit Davidson
- next Wednesday, February 11.

He has scheduled an informal

"talk at an open luncheon at
12:30-p.m. and a reading from

his. work and that of-the late |

James Wright at 8 p.m...in the
900 room. In the afternoon, he
‘will take part in English Pro-
fessor Tony Abbott's . creative

writing workshop in room 301.:

.Abbott calls Bell ‘‘one of the
best readers I have ever heard...

; We wold like to have people of |

Bell's caliber here ‘every’ year.”
A teacher for many years. at: th

distinguished’ University of |

Iowa Program in Creative Writ-
ing and one of the most popular
staff members of Middlebury
College’s. Bread Loaf Writer's

Conference, Bell has delighted
students and colleagues with
his sense of humor, vitality, and
ability as a reader to hold
audiences.

Bell considers teaching and
writing equally important. He
compares teaching to ‘‘giving
blood” wiht no one to turn off
the tap (son one has to do’ it
oneself).

When not bleeding, Bell finds
time for jogging and extensive
traveling. He ran in the Hono-.
lulu Marathon while teaching a

semester at the University of |

Hawaii. Bell returned from a
stint in Italy only last month.

After coming to Davidson, he
will continue his swing through

the South, stopping to lecture
“at Emory University in At-

lanta, and the University of

Tennessee at Chatanooga.
Several books of Bell’s poetry

have won recognition. A few

| fivelude A Probable volume of
' dreams, given the Lamont A-

ward by the Academy of Amer-
ican Poets in 1969 and: Stars
Which See, Stars Which Do Not
See, a National Book Award
finalist for 1977 -

He is working on a new volume

of poetry to be entitled These
Green-Going-to- Yellow. A com-

pilation of correspondence in

the form of poems between Bell
and poet Will Stafford is also
forthcoming.

Other books of verse include:
The Escape Into You (1971),

“Residue of Song (1974), Things

We Dreamt We Died For
(1966), and Poems for Nathan
and Saul (1971).

$36,000 -after. four years. -
er eatimmamiabent .

Sophomores /juniors/
seniors earn over $850 per
month during the last two

years of college _

Get a head start on an exciting, challenging position after

graduation. While you finish school, we will pay you over

‘$860 per month to study and maintain good grades. We
- have the best graduate level nuclear training program in
the world and-math, physics, chemistry, technical majors

and engineering students:can qualify. U.S. citizens less © | -

than £7 years aid. a 8.0 GPA or better, and good health.

are the requirements. We offer a projected salary of aa

For more | information: send oe

Lt. Russ dwers
Navy Nuclear Programs Manager
1001 Navaho Dr.

Raleigh, NC 26709.

OR call 1-800-662-7568.

Depressed Jeff Herrin proves he is not a moonbeam.

(David McCurry)

spirits and start yu in the right
direction. You can then move
extensive endeavors, such as
going to a SPE party.

If you are taking a lab course,
you are at a distinct advantage
this winter. There is nothing
more effective than spending
three days a week in a chem-
istry lab (Chem 41 is my fav-
orite).

Taking three intensive read-
ing courses is also a plus:
you will invariably have at least
two, and probably three, 10-
page papers due on the same
day. It becomes perfectly app-
ropriate to stop every person
you meet and relate this as-
tounding fact.

In the event that none of
these situations depress you,
more serious measures are cal-
led for. Attending a RUSK
party is sure to send you into a
nosedive. Ditto for studying in
the library on Friday night. Or,

’ better yet, in Chambers on Sat-

urday. Remember to check your
empty mail-box, especially on
Sunday afternoon. Talk to self-
acknowledged pathetic people.
The field of depressive actions is
expanding, so be creative.

Along with these things to do
are a few equally important

- don’t’s. Don’t listen to a Chip-
- munk Punk album. And don’t
‘talk to ivy Goodman.

I hope I have shed some light
on the Davidson winter. syn-
drome. I feel that all too any
students are unaware of the
opportunity open to them this
term. It’s time we all worked
together on this. -

' Let school go to blue this win-

* ter: after all, it’s tradition.
