The Little in the Little Kitchen

Claude Little retires after fourteen years i Moorsevilles premiere, kitchen

by Anne Goodwin *R4.

Filet mignon wrapped in bacon. A salad bar with
real bacon and bleu cheese dressing filled with hunks of
cheese. Tangy cheese spread on each table.

Many returning Davidson gourmets will recog-
nize these delicacies as features of Little Kitchen,
Mooresville’s famous steakhouse. Those students will
find, however, that during this summer of many inno-

vations, yet another institution has changed. M"Claude .

Little, the restauranit’s owner has -retired and will no
longer be greeting people at the door with his friendly
smile and i euemenend

_ The Beginnings of Little Kitchen
M’ Little first became. associated with restaurants
as the leader of a dance band. He bought his first piano
at the age of ten, shining shoes to earn the money for it.

When he-was fourteen, he formed.a dance band and be-

gan to play at various night clubs. He worked in one
place, the Hickory Moose Club, for sixteen years. He

- spent intermissions in the kitchen “seeing how things _

were done,” he said.
Mr’ Little found that he was: not making enough

. Little

‘tunes an

: times he would offer free meals as saniples:“ “We knew

we had the product,” MT" Little said. Business began to .
pick up “when people found out we had the real thing.”
Six years later the restaurant moved to its present
location and expanded to 186 seats. M' Little feels that
itchen has been so successful because “two

I addition ing the owner of the restaurant,
M' Littleplayed the vat Little Kitchen, playing old
\ ballads. Many students remember this

unique aspect of eating there. M' Little said the restau-

: ~ rant wants to hire a new organist from Davidson.

Little Kitchen and Davidson
When he first opened the restaurant, M* Little
said, a-well-wisher advised him “‘don’t mess with Da-

. vidson College students,’” but I have the best relation-

_ ship with Davidson College that anybody could possi-
- bly have...from top to bottom.
- with people” will determine whether or nota restaurant

0 6

‘The way you deal

will have problems with its customers, he said. When a °

money, howevér,and got a job with the pojst office in
Mooresvile. His wife, Dora Little, had a luncheonette
in the dime store. She decided to expand, and in 1967
she opened a steakhouse with sixty-two seats. M" Little
soon quit his job at the post office to help his wife.
“We didn’t advertise at first,” M* Little said. They
had borrowed $35,000, and “knew we were going to
lose it.” M' Little then went to other towns and talked to
people he felt could afford the price of a meal. Some-

8 student starts to become a nuisance, taking him.aside to
-£ speak to him quietly works better that confronting him,
g Mt Little explained. “It has been a very pleasant expe-
“> rience to have Davidson College...in my hip pocket-
3 .... They had me in theirs,”he said.

M' Little has sold the restaurant to his son-in-law,
Michael Atwell, but M' Little is sure the restaurant will
“never change” because “I feel he knows that we tried
hard to build an institution.

Claude Little, the former.
proprietor of Little Kitchen.

HIGHWAY 115

892- 7415
CORNELIUS

-Free Salad Coupon

CLIP. THE COUPON AND. SAVE!

: phe > i eat > drone ts ts oH ooo ang
oe

Win. this Putty Tat’
a at.the Village store raffle!
bi be held at noon Oct. 24- ‘Homecoming

_ Register each time you visit.
No purchase necessary

PUL WALLACE STORE

NO SOUTH MARIN ST. _ DAVIDSON S9Z-444D

digi, faeces

valid ti toro

Sak ais eis tr cdi gio oak tS eles te colon Ma on

page 18 / DAVIDSONIAN ‘Friday 2 October 1981
