Continued from page  .

ulty Committee. Poe was not re-hired
when his four-year contract expited this
year. Although the proposed committee.
would not have been. involved in his
case, he backed the proposal because it
would pool more information about
candidates and would therefore proba-
bly be more accurate. “It’s a more desir-
able system,,, Poe said, “in spite of all
the problems it might bring.”

PAC member Lance: Stell said the
committee ought tobe esential to the
faculty’s role in the College: “The fac-
ulty doesn’t: have any self-respect if it
doesn’t think that amportans function is
its own.”

Zimmermann also supported the pro-

posed committee as fulfilling a natural

function of the faculty .“ It is appropriate

for the fauclty to participate in the pro-_

cess of maintaining high standards for
faculty membership at Davidson.”

Except for “vague references to facul-
ty dissatisfaction in ‘past decisions,”
Stell said discussion of the need for
more faculty voice did not include criti-
cism of specific administration deci-
sions. “The question is not whether the
President and Dean are doing, a bad job.
THe question is whether it is approp-
riate for them to have this power,” Ab-
bott pointed out.

Many of the proposal’s opponents felt
that the proposed committee would en-
tail more costs than benefits for the fac-
ulty. They feared that the committee

would break down collegiality and —

trust, so important in a‘small faculty like
Davidson’s. The existence of a commit-
tee would create a gap between senior
and junior faculty members, making un-
tenured professors feel they needed to
“perform” before more judges.
Humanities Professor Pat Edmondson
said the committee would “compound
the ambiguity” of a young professor’s
position, who, in trying to determine his
chances for reappointment or tenure,
would have to analyze the judgement of
five professors in addition to that of the
administration.
. Zimmermann did not think a commit-
tee would change the amount of anxiety
among young professors. “Anxiety is
the natural accompaniment on any pro-
bationary situation,” he said.

Another danger opponents ‘of the

proposal pointed out is that the commit-
tee could politicize the faculty, creating
factions which would use the committee
for political ends. One Reaction was
that, while “everyone admits that the
Davidson~faculty is not now politic-
ized,” a committee could lead to politic-
ization. Some faculty members cited
personal experiences with politicized
faculty tenure committees, while others
reported that in their experience such
committees had been taken too serious-
ly to become politicized.

Confidentiality was a major concern
of the proposal’s opponents, who

charged that increasing the number of

persons with access to personnel files —
increases the danger of breaches. of co Sa "

fidentiality. Many professors’ a
that confidentiality is already a problem
at Davidson.

Concerns about confidentiality dem-
onstrate that faculty members do not
trust each other, according to Stell.
“The collegiality they worry so much
about protecting doesn’t exist-—There is
deep-seated suspicion of each others’
ability to be confidential, serious, and

_ professional on such a committee.”

“A lot of people point blank don’t
trust. their colleagues,” Abbott ‘said,
“and think they’re not capable of doing
a professional job.”

Another major bone of contention for

opponents of the proposed committee
was that faculty. members would be

judging colleagues in other fields. A.

member of the committee would have to
disqualify himself from reviewing can-
didates in his own department. Some
argued that only those in the same disci-
pline can truly judge a profeessor’s pro-
fessional qualifications.

Not all opponents of the proposal ac-
tually disagreed with the idea of such a
committee, however. Some did not ac-
cept specific provisions of the PAC
proposal. It could have been these facul-
ty members who contributed the most to
the proposal’s drastic change of fortune.
At the faculty’s first reading of the prop-
osal two months ago, when it required a
simple majority vote to remain under
consideration, it had passed by a wide
margin, 54-26.

. The proposed committee would have
held a purely advisory role. Some facul-
ty members objected that this was not
enough power to justisfy having a com-
mittee. Edmondson pointed out that,
since the committee was bound to confi-
dentiality, it could not make its decision
public even if it had been overridden, so
that “committee members could be im-
plicated in a decison they did not sup-
port.” Such limitations on the commit-
tee’s power would make it seem like a
“front organization,” she added.

Some faculty members also objected
to the proposed committee’s three op-
tions in its decisions: “recommend”
“recommend with reservations” and
“not recommend.” They considered the

middle option meaningless and hence a -

betrayal of the committee’s. purpose.
Does last week’s defeat indicate. that
such a proposal is hopeless? PAC
members do not seem to think so.
“I hope a future PAC will learn from
the points of contention. The accounta-
bility and authority of the committee are

definitely areas that need more work,”

Eppes said.
“It will definitely come up again,”
Stell said, “but not for a long time.”

Elizabeth Kiss ‘83 _

‘Students Eiay Guinea Pig

‘. Under the rie sc of Dr. failed. aad i dab be ‘publ ist ac

Parke of Charlotte Memorial Hospital” ”

125 subjects from the Davidson com-
munity received an injection of polyval-
ent (multi-component) pneumococcal
vaccine to determine which components
are most effective.

In four weeks, all the subjects will
return to the infirmary to have a second
blood sample taken, which will be‘com-
pared with one taken at the time of injec-
tion to test-the response of antibodies to
the vaccine. .

Dr. Parke, who has been in clinical
vaccine research for 12 years, is work-
ing through.the Bacterial Products Div-
ision of the Food and Drug Administra-
tion, but his funding has come through
other outside sources. Dr. Parke hopes

ewetent

termining which pneumooc Strains
would be best used in the vaccine. The
vaccine used now needs to be effective
against more pneumococcal types and
needs to be more stable, Parke said.

Dr. Parke said he would like to ex-
press his gratitude and delight at the tre-
méndous response to the. request for
subjects. “We had all the, people we
needed in a matter of a few days, ” Preke
said. Subjects received $35 as.a gratuity
and to cover any expenses incurred by
the subject. Dr. Parke urges everyone
who received the vaccine to, remember
to return for their second appointment at
the end of April:

Jeff Holland ‘84

aa

4 a

\ see

A perfect i
a) Tremennlder *

o\ wr

Id Ge ernay

Py jk ed

peck TOP SmE

Tus VALLOGS SHORE

“PAVIDSON'S FINEST /

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELORS
For Orange Presbytery Camps (Presbyterian Point

ie Camp

- $100 D per mask (May 21 - July 31)

For. application, write G. Wilson Gunn, Orange
Presbytery Camps, PO Box 2874, Durham, - NC
27705 or call 682-5558 during office hours.
Also see the placement office at your school.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982 _ (

y °
