record rm, proud.of...

D: How did. you manage. to make being-in: the:

army a cultural experience? . _.

CW:.The army was my college. Hiearied imore in ;

the four years I was in the army,-particularly the three
years I was in Italy, than in the entire 21 years before
that time.

Of course I was lucky—I was in the Army Intelli-
gence Corps. I didn’t have to wear a uniform and could
live in town. Thanks to ROTC I was:an officer so I had
a litte money in my pocket. ~

And I was‘in Italy—an incredible area, culturally. I
discovered painting and read my first poems seriously.
I started trying to write poems and realized that this was’
what I had been wanting to do—not fiction, poetry. My

mind goes in flashes and starts and fits and bursts and —

works associationally , the way poems do.

The world:really changed for me. Italy was a piece
of canvas and'I was paint and something just kept
spreading.me all over it. Everything was gorgeous and
lovely and new. .. -

D: Did you write about Italy while y you were there?

CW: I didn’t write about anything while I was

. there. I was mostly copying Ezra Pound’s poems.

Pound was the first poet I read so naturally Ihave a

great affection for! him. I was fortunate'that when I first

read his poems I didn’t know anything about them. I

. just let them wash over me — a lot of it I didn’t under-
stand but I knew I liked the way it sounded. :If you wor-
ry about what it says you'll never be able to write.

I still think Pound’s poetry is gorgeous. We write
today largely because of the things Pound made people
do.

His economics and politics were almost without
exception incorrect — and not only incorrect but ag-
gressively bad at times. But I think you can separate the
poetry from the man.

D: Some of your newer poems, like “Homage to
Paul Cezanne” and “The Southerh Cross,” are
highly innovative in form. Do you consistently

_experiment with form? _
CW: The longer I write the: less formally structured

my peoms seem to: be on the: surface; But I feel they:

have more structure underneath.

Form flows: ‘and structure stablizes. But the stabil-

izing element is flexible. -
“Homage to Paul Cezanne” was an experiment in

-non-linear form, It goes like an overlay —like plastice

_ maps. You get 2 all eight overlays and it’s a whole.

Of course, for.the reader this is unimportant. The
reader simply likes or doesn’t like the poem - — enters
or doesn’t enter,

D: Theres @ strong thread of spirituatify in you
. Bo ‘L sense an ambivalence between a hopeful-
ness expressed in images of cycles and a hopeless-

ness, a feeling of imcompletion. Do you. have this

ambivalence in your own spiritual outlook?

Cw: Very. much. - I grew up in the. Episcopal .

Church. Up until the age of 16 it was. very important to

me and then I stopped: — or it senpet But'there’s. ob- .

viously a great holdover...

Everyone! hes theeae What's it all about, ‘Alfie? feel- 4
singh Hiaeites you think about itor you-don’t:. I think

about it all the time. It gets into my poems. It’s what I

say in “Reunion”: / write poems to untie myself. to say

grace.

It’s my way of paying homage to whatever i is out
there. I try to come to terms with it. Of course you-can’ t
come to terms with it. Never can. Which is wonderful
‘for writing because if you could you’d stop writing.
Everything gets deeper, vaster, farther away. The clos-
er you get to the untimate understanding of it — which
is probably eternal extinction — the wider it gets.

D: How do you live your life so that you have the
inner ‘space to do these things?

-CW: Like Mike Martin, you have to make your. life

‘acciand: what’s important to you. Don’t say.“I’lkdo it

later” —— there:is never a later. You’ ve got to be strong
to give things up if you want other things,

D: How do the folks back home feel about your
poetry?

CW: I don’t think they know anything about it. The
woman who wrote Kinflicks was from.my town. That

_ caused a stir: Most people can read- novels. Poetry

takes too much effort.

Poetry tells. you about yourself, and the more you
know about yourself the harder it is to. get through the
day. Getting through thé day the easiést way. posible is
how most Americans lead their lives. -

D; But Europeans are different in this respect?

CW: Europeans have less monetarily but more
spiritually. They read poetry because they know that
life is serious. We don’t know life is serious. Life is in

dead earnest, and we still don’t know that. Everything

about this society tries to keep it fromus. _

And those who know life is in dead earnest can’t
read.

I think television is the ruination of civilization. It’s
one of the reasons there are no regional eccentricities
any more. T.V. is taking the roots away from people. It
puts more péople to sleep every year — and they’re as-
leep for the-rest of their lives.

‘Of course, the cause is avarice. T.V. and advertis-

"ing are only symptoms. It just drive me crazy that peo-

ple are getting bamboozted like this. and loving every

‘ minute of it...

D: How do you wake people up?

CW: You have 'to wake yourself. You tell People to
wake up, they fall deeper into sleep.
- ~ D: Do you like to teach?

CW: Not really. I’m not a natural-born teacher. I
don’t have that ‘messianic ‘desire to explain that great
teachers do: Which isn’t to say I don’t get involved. I

“don’t like poetry readings, ‘either, but once I start I ial
* in enjoying it.

'” One of the problems about teaching wweiting is you
can’t teach’ ‘people how to writé. You'ean teach them

~ how to avoid mistakes; ‘how’ to edit, how’ to endure
pain, to mutilate’ theitiselves: — but pi can’ t teach
them héw‘to write:

Tm a firm believer that ope are never creply

| taught anything; they tea it. thas you are i ina aceon of

eg at Met hae TREE AT ae TT TR Re
WARS on e Bit

_DAVIDSONIAN / Friday a 1982

being open.and_ready:and:the. teacher has something to

~ Bay and-your paths cross then one is.a great. facher and

the other is a great student.

You. said. you thought “Homage to Paul Ce-
zanne” from The Southern Cross was the best poem
you’d ever written — ,

CW: At one time I did. It was definitely ‘big poem
for me. .

D: Could you talk through the poem — — how it
came about?

CW: It was in a way an exercise in technique. It’s

Supposed to show the method used in the rest of the

book. It’s aggressively non-linear and accretive.

I wanted it to end up somehow a representional
ideogram of the abstract notion of how the dead affect
our lives. So I took the most concrete abstraction I
could think of, which is the dead—because everyone
knows very concretely what the dead are even though
they’re abstract. I tried to work Various ideas and im-
ages about the dead into this giant ideogram. To say
that the dead still rule our lives because they have never
left.

D: Why Cezanne?

CW: Because of the way he painted. It’s not a
poem about Cezanne, obviously. In his last years from:
1896 to 1906, he painted landscapes down in Pro-
vence—particularly the Mont Sainte Victoire ‘lands-
capes. If you look at them you’ll see there’s not a
straight line. It’s all little hooks and slashes. Then you
get farther back and houses appear and trees appear and
soon you have this very representional landscape.

I was hoping to get that effect—a representional
poem not presented representationally. -

“The Southern Cross,” on the other hand, has a
submerged narrative line which comes up and then
sinks down again, the way merhory does.

My new poems have this same submerged narra-
tive. I think the most interesting narrative line is that
which is least in evidence. Which isn’t to say I don’t
like Frost, who is a wonderful narrative poet, It is easi-
est for me to,follow the.submerged rope. But I’ve al-
ways got my-hand on the rope.

D:.Isthere a central theme to the poems you are
working on now?

CW: The two things I always seem to. go back to
are Italy and east, Tennessee-North Carolina. The first
section of what I?m working on now is of American

- poems—rambling poems. The second section is called
Italian Days. and I'm just unabashedly writing some

more-poems about Italy. But that's going to.be the end
of it, think. I.don’t know what I’m going fo do after
that. '.
D: You'll start writing about California?

CW: I’m going to have to, make.up something.

Elizabeth Kiss ’83 News Editor Emeritus (Elizabeth
~_ was former editor of ‘the Davidsonian) —

sl
