Jim McConkey

“Jim really has all the attributes we look for in the
Davidson student-athlete, being.an excellent student,.a
person who has a lot of strong personal characteristics,
and moral values,” marvels Hussey, McConkey, at
6’8” and 230Ibs. , plays for Collinsville High School in
Collinsville, Ilinois, and he’s heavily recruited. He’s a
power player with a good shot, and that versatility op-
ens up to Hussey a wide array of options, providing, of
course, McConkey should choose Davidson.

. _Recruiting ace Gerry Vaillancourt says McConkey
is “a strong, physical player that can also play the fi-
neesse game. He’ does all of the things necessary to
make a great contribution to the program.” The praise
doesn’t stop there either. Coach Hussey makes it ex-
plicit that each prospect have an undemanding, unself-
ish attitude that contributes toward team play. McCon-.,
key again gets the nod. “He truly understands the im-
portance of team concepts. Even though he has the
ability to be a dominating player, he understands shar-
ing his talents and abilities within the team in order for

the team to do well. To me, this is always a quality we

try to recruit,” Hussey comments.

Davidson sees: McConkey , asuperior student i inter-..

center. or low. post, but particularly as.a center prospect.
As Vaillancourt puts it, McConkey. is.a “class individu-
al who fits into the Davidson College program.” With a
little luck McConkey. will have that chance. to fit in.

Hussey adds, “He hasso much to offer us, and wg-have

so much to offer him i in terms of his career goals, we
feel it would be an ideal’situation.” The fate is in his
_hands.

Bill Pollock

Bill Pollock i is the type.o of player ith gets a double-
. take from scouts; You see, he’s very active, and.his
hustle: and: hard ‘work belie his 195Ib., 68” body.
Aside from that, he can shoot.

“Bill-will be a true, face-the-basket forward,” Says

Hussey. “He’s in the developmental: part of his game

right now. He’s getting better every time he plays, and
it’s amazing to look at his development over last year.”

Pollock ‘is ‘an unselfish player who passes well and
knows the game. A senior at Cinnaminson High
School in New Jersey, Pollock is interested in, David-

son's outstanding pre-medicine program, and he loves .

to play surgeon with opposing defenses. ‘He’s a finesse
player who can hurt you becaiise he’s such a good shot.

If the: defense. plays the jumper a little too tightly, he .

has the ability to leave his man behind, take the ball

low, and score points along the baseline or inside the .

paint. He runs well, and his remarkable ‘shooting. touch
allows him to play the high f post or shooting forward.

Pe ae

Pollock is.on ' Hussey’ $ most wanted list, and his

perimeter talents combined with the power of a Kenny.

Wilson would make Bill Pollock a teal plus for the
Wildest onan

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 8 January 1982

uM, Ae Fey
Ce ;

Chris Troutman i 2S OF x

t %

Chris Troutman, at 6’0” and 165ibs., is the type of
player every coach would want to find beneath the

Christmas tree: a pure point guard. He can handle the .

ball, he can pass the ball, and he can shoot the ball.
And he does it all exceptionally well.

_ “Chris has ‘all the personality. characteristics we =>»
look for. He has good morals, a good attitude, and is a

great team player. He’s highly motivated as a basket-

ball player. anda student.” Anything else, Coach Hus- :

sey? “He has worked very hard in his early career to
develop himself into a true point guard. He really
wants to play.” Okay, okay, we get the picture! The kid
can play ball!

Troutman’s home is Elizabethton, Tennessee,
where he is coached by Len Dugger, one of the bright
young coaches in the state. To match, Troutman is one
of the bright young point guard prospects in the South,
and the Davidson coaching staff isn’t the only one
which sees it that way. His ability is just one of the rea-
sons: Troutman is Davidson’s number one point guard
prospect.

According to Hussey, “He’s a true point guard. He
always has been and he always will be. He takes pride
in that.” That pride comes out on the court, to be cer-
tain. He loves the pressure situation. Excels at it, in
fact.

Hussey & Company are hoping Chris Troutman
will find Davidson the showcase for his talents.

Ted Wolfe

Ted Wolfe, a 6°8” 205-pounder, is the ideal David-

son prospect and the ideal Davidson basketball pros-
pect as a big forward or center. And the superlatives
don’ t stop there for the native of Arlington Heights, Il-

<.. Jindis,
ested in pre law and business as possible majors, ata “

“Ted Wolfe is a power forward who plays with a

gréat deal intensity. He’s going to be so much better as —

a sophomore 6'9” player. He plays with so much inten-
sity he'll make up for any physical disadvantages,”

says an admiring Hussey. Wolfe has a great attitude,
and one of Bobby’s Husseyisms is “Attitude deter-
mines, altitude.” If that’s the case,ithen Wolfe could

send the Wildcat program skyrocketing. He’s a classy .

person and.an excellent student who excels just as well
in the ABCs of shooting the ball, for a jumper with un-

canny accuracy. Vaillancourt calls him an “active, —
cerebral type of player,” a “definite must’’ for the pro- .

_ gram.
. Wolfe, a senior at Arlington High School, is a

strong inside player who has the team attitude crucialto..
a Bobby Hussey player. “In recruitung I-have specif- -

‘ically asked. our people. to recruit not only talent, but

guys who are going to.be team players.” Ted Wolfe isa .

Player with all'the necessary qualities to be successful
in'the: Davidson program and to help the program itself

be successful at the same time. Hopefully Davidson’s «::

is the right program for him:

Well, ‘tis the season to play roundball, and Coach: ©

Bobby Hussey is ‘hoping that his season’s greetings
will include several greetings that say, “I’m coming to

Davidson.” The Wildcats are looking for'a rather large - ©

entering class of six or seven members. Many. of these

have narrowed their choices down: to Davidson and one’
- other school. ‘From that point on in it’s 50-50, but the

hardworking ‘young coaching staff could well swing
the odds in ‘Davidson’ $ favor. Let's keep 0 our fingers
crossed.

ren Ed.

9] vs 4%
Pi as ir tice £* & i 5

Athlete of the Week
Cliff Tribus’.
Basketball

Cliff, a 61 0” junior from. Essex
Falls, New Jersey, had a phenomenal
week. as the basketball team went 2-1...
Against Furman he scored a career-high -
24 points and grabbed 13 rebounds, a
career high: as well. In the. win over
Wester Carolina his hot shooting kept
the Wildcats in the game. in the second.
half en route.to a.21. point performance.

_ His 20 points last night against Marshall
ae were game high for Davidson. Cliff was

_ chosen Southern Conference Player. of
the Week, but. we. don’t know. whether.
that honor or this is more Paratigions,,
Congianhaticnte Cliff.

