Ten days ago, the faculty rejected a proposal that
would have involved them, if only. minimally, in-te-

nure: ‘decisions. To realize the importance of the tenure .

issue, consider what: has happened both nationally and
at Davidson over the past several years.

Once’ a professor has been. awarded tenure, he’s
likely: to: Stay. around a good. thirty years or so..The
young Ph.D.’s aspiring to his sor has best look for a
different position.

Once a college has tenured the bast majority of its
faculty, young Ph: D.’s had Dest s sent their resumés to a
different institution:

- And once.a high percentage of colleges in.the na-
tion have become over-tenured, young Ph.D.’s had
best think about law school: ,

“This is the situation young. faculty find themselves

in today. During the economic boom of the 1960s col- :

leges hired. ‘professors and granted them tenure right
and left. But after more than a decade of stagflation and

declining ‘enrollments many colleges find themselves —

“tenured in”,

Young professors face not only a tight job ‘market,
but those who do get jobs are likely to find tenure elu-
sive: Compassionate pedpile wish a better lot for the di-
ligent scholars who‘ve plodded through 20-odd years
of assistant professorships to find themselves in the un-
employment lines.

-But even the most compassionate administrators -

have no choice but to be tough. For if their colleges be-
come tenured in, they will not have any positions left to

olicies For People

offer bright young Ph.D..’s. They will have to pass up
bringing new blood into their faculties for decade-
s—until the old generation reaches retirement age.

Now approximately 70 percent of Davidson’s fac-
ulty have tenure.

Accordingly, Davidson’s administration bas been

tough in granting tenure and renewing the contracts of
non-tenured professors during recent years.

But Davidson’s administration has ‘not been com-
passionate in doing so.

When three of the seven professors eligible during
spring term 1979 were denied tenure, shockwaves tra-
velled across campus. Part of the uproar was attributa-
ble to the collective discovery that Davidson professors
could actually be denied tenure. Hardly anyone before

had been turned down. But the uproar was also'attribu-

table to the less than professional way in which the ad-
ministration conveyed the bad news.

Two of the unlucky professors had been given no
hint of their pending dismissals; both, in fact, were
confident of positive decisions. Both had been granted
pay raises—an encouraging sight every time their con-
tracts had been renewed during the six years prior to the
decisions. Both left Davidson embittered.

Last year'a sociology professor was up for renewal
and informed that he was one of three finalists for his
own position. When the other two candidates disquali-
fied themselves, he was not, as one would expect, re-

newed. Finstead, the search for a new professor was —

reopened, and the sociology professor left Davidson

disappointed that a Christian college could treat one of
its professors so tactléssly.

This fall term a French professor entered the final
year of his four-year’contract. The administration did
not advise him to consider looking for anew job. When
he discovered wintér term that his contract was not:re-
newed, he was shocked and hurt and had only a few
months to find a new job in a tight market.

Toughness and compassion are not mutually exclu-
sive virtues. Davidson’s administration is, profession-
ally obligated to recruit the best faculty’ possible, and in
troubled times this may entail releasing a large’ number
of professors to make room for (one hopes), more tal-
ented replacements. But Davidson’s administration is
morally obligated to treat all of its employees—even
those it must fire— with compassion. Ata school that
claims to pride itself on its intimacy ‘and high moral
standards there is no éxcuse for callousness:

So given the plight of young professors—both na-
tionally and at Davidson—it is troubling that the facul-
ty appears unwilling ‘to participate in tenure decisions.
Faculty involvement would not result ina higher per-
centage of professors’ bewing awarded tenure; that is
not the point. Rather faculty involvement might soften
the blow of negative decisions by giving young profes-
sors adequate warning and courteous delivery of bad
news. The administration does not seem inclined to do
so left to its own devices. he,

When young professors apparently lack the moral
support of the majority of their peers, < one wonders to
whom they ‘can turn.” eh

John Siman ‘82 Gohn is a senior philosophy friajor
from Charlotte, NG and a former editor of the David-
sonian.) M

El Salvador-A

As we read Mr. Benedict’s-article “El Salvador:
Not Just Another Vietnam” which appeared in last
week’s Davidsonian, we were appalled by the many
misconceptions that Mr. Benedict is laboring under.
He has obviously accepted at face value the accounts of
the El Salvadoran conflict given by President Reagan
and Secretary of State Haig that have been ‘presented to
the public over the past several months. For instance,
he.uses the phrase “allegedly repressive regime” in de-
_scribing the Durante government. Monday night in the

900 room we viewed a movie filmed and produced by »

five. Dutch journalists stationed in El Salvador. The
movie depicted the soldiers of Duarte’s “alleged re-
pressive regime” murdering innocent civilians whose
only crime was voicing their desire for social freedom.
Yes;-Mr. Benedict, we are two Americans who do

question the prudence of increasing our involvement

and support for this repressive regime.

Last week’s article demeans those who support the
guerillas as peculiar and/or ignorant. We may seem pe-
culiar to some, but we are definately not ignorant. Be-

Repressive

sides, is being opposed to the whole sale slaughter of

innocent peasants by the military a “ghastly way to

spread the Word of Christ?” We think not.

In Mr. Benedict’s.article, he asserts that President
Duarte heads “a moderate government dedicated to a
massive program of land reform.” For one, Duarte
does not hold true power, The army does. He is merely
a figurehead for the generals who control the govern-
ment. Secondly, the “massive land reform” that Mr.
Benedict speaks of consists of maintaining the grip that
the. fourteen landowning families hold over the land
and shooting those who attempt to change this unfair
situation.

Mr. Benedict contends that should the “guerilla

forces” become successful in their struggle, then “the
result would be the formation. of a typical dictator- -

Ship.” Mr, Benedict, what exactly i is a “typical Marxist
type dictatorship?” Is it any different-from a right-wing
dictatorship which abuses human rights, as is the case

in Chile (which, Mr. Benedict, if you will recall your

history lesson, the US placed in power, deposing a de-

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982

mocratic left-wing government, ) Our involvedieliicer-

_ tainly did not improve the human rights situation in that

country, and we see.no reason to think that any i im-
provement will result from any US involvement i in El
Salvador; we challenge you to prove otherwise. _
Mr. Benedict alleges that:the leftist “terrorists” in
El Salvador “are receiving arms and support from Cuba
and Nicaragua” and “economic support from a variety
of Marxist countries.” Mr. Benedict then goes on to
claim that should thé leftists overcomé Duarte’s regime
then El Salvador would be ruled by “a'repressive re-
gime that is actively hostile to her neighbors and the
United States and would be decidedly undependable. ”
At this very moment, ‘the United States is doing the
same thing the Cubans and Nicaraguans are ‘doing; i i.e.,
we are permitting individuals opposed to the regimes in
Cuba and Nicaragua to train openly in Florida (see last
weeks Newsweek). One must not apply 'y a double stan-
dard in comparing the conduct of the United States and
Marxist countries. Today’s international ‘situation is

not a John Wayne. movie; we must not toe? a “my-
Continued on: 2A.

23
