Semester System
May Alter -
Studio Art

By MIKE TANTILLO ’85

The Davidson faculty’s recent vote
to change the academic calendar to a se-
mester system will affect the art depart-
ment in both positive and negative
ways. Art history, for example, will be-
nefit while studio art will suffer from the
change.

Associate professor of Art History
Dr. Larry Ligo sees art students as hav-
ing “time to let material percolate. Stu-
dents will, therefore, be able to deal
more comfortably with the material.”
Echoing Dr. Ligo’s thoughts, associate
professor of art Dr. Shaw Smith antici-
pates students “having time to think,
rather than regurgitate. A student is not
tested one day on material that was
covered in class the day before.” How-
ever, the introductory survey course
may have to meet more than three times
a week in order to cover all the neces-
sary material in fourteen weeks.

Because Davidson’s calendar will
coincide with many more schools, ex-
change programs will be more available
to students. According to Dr. Ligo,
“Davidson currently has no sculptor;
now sculpting will be available to stu-
dents on an exchange basis. Photogra-
phy and ceramics courses will also be
more readily available to students.”

Davidson currently takes ari 3tu-
dents to southern France to study art
each spring term. While in France, stu-
dents receive two art credits and ar. cur-
rently able to take their third coutve in-
dependently. The change to semcsters
will create problems for this program.
One problem will be getting credit for a
fourth course. Due to financial consid-
erations, the group will probably still
spend about two months. However, the
first part of the semester will be spent
writing two lengthy papers that are re-
quired of the students before they go.
Dr. Ligo sees the “art history seminar in
France’s problems as solvable.”

The semester system will pose ume
and space problems for studio art, how-
ever. Art professors currently teach four
courses per term, while under the se-
mester system they will offer. six
courses per term, with each professor

teaching three courses. Courses under |

both calendars must be two to three
hours long. It will be difficult to offer
six courses at a time and not be forced to

ews

use the same space at the same time. Ac-
cording to Dr. Ligo, “When the art de-
partment is able to move into Johnston
Gym, the space problem should be alle-
viated.” ;

The studio currently has two ade-
quate rooms, one for basic painting and
one for printmaking. Apparatus for each
of these courses must be left in the room
all the time. Students do not take their
easels with them after class.

Professors do not see the scheduling
of art history courses as a problem, but
some studio courses may have to be of-
fered at night. ,

Professor Ligo puts art in his ear

‘

Medic Alert
SavesLives

According to Dr. Malcolm Todd,
surgeon and past President of the Amer-
ican Medical Association, probably 20
percent of the college-age population in
the United States has a condition that
needs to be known in a medical emer-

“Fatal mistakes, unnecessary or im-
proper treatment can be administered
under emergency conditions if the spec-
ial medical condition of the victim is un-
known,” Todd says. He suggests that
anyone with a special medical condition
wear a Medic Alert bracelet or neck-
lace.

Recent estimates by the nonprofit
Medic Alert organization indicate that
the system has played an important role
in life-saving situations approximately
2,000 times during the past year.

By Anderson Scott '84

s

“Medic Alert is the most simple and
efficient emergency medical identifica-
tion and information system that can be
devised,” according to Todd.

Each member of Medic Alert re-.

ceives an annual update on their wallet
card, which serves as a reminder for the
individual to make changes in the infor-
mation, if necessary.

The Medic Alert bracelet or neck-
lace has engraved on it the member’s
identification number, their special
medical condition and a twenty-four
hour collect phone number to Medic
Alert’s emergency information center.
In case of an accident or sudden illness,
a phone call to a trained operator at the
center will provide authorized person-
nel with the member’s vital emergency
medical information within a few se-
conds. Other important data about the
patient, the name of the family physi-
cian, blood type and insurance informa-
tion can also be a part of the member’s
Medic Alert file, for example.

“The more we know about a victim
in an emergency, the quicker and more
efficiently we are able to treat the per-
son. Medic Alert is an important adjunct
to providing sound emergency medical
care,” Todd added.

For information write Medic Alert,
Turlock, California 95381 or call their
toll-free number (800) 344-3226.

Professors‘

Salaries

(CPS)—Engineering and business pro-
fessors are the best-paid public college
teachers, according to a new survey of
faculty salaries.

The survey, conducted jointly by Ap-
palachian State University, the College
and University Personnel Association
and the American State Association of
State Colleges and Universities, found
that full engineering and business pro-
fessors averaged $32,841 last year.
That puts them some seven percent
higher than the average public college
professor, who last year made $30,739.

Computer science profs were the next
best-paid, making $31,968. Economics
professors averaged $31,353, the
fourth-best rate. .

Art professors are the worst-paid,
making $29,519.

The new assistant professors public
colleges hired last year were ranked
similarly. Foreign language, English,
history, and other liberal arts assistant
professors were paid the least, while
business and engineering assistant profs
made the most. |

horts.

Newly-hired assistant profs on the
204 public campuses that responded to
the survey averaged $19,770 last year.

Faculty members on all U.S. campu-
ses—both public and private—enjoyed
salary hikes slightly higher than the in-
flation rate, though just how much
higher is open to question.

The National Center for Education
Statistics says faculty salaries increased
by 9.2 percent between 1981 and 1982,
compared to the 8.6 percent increase in
the Consumer Price Index.

But an American Association of Uni-
versity Professors survey released last
June put the increase at only nine per-
cent, giving college teachers an average
real income gain of .04 percent.

In either case, it was the first time
since 1972 that faculty salaries rose fas-
ter than the Consumer Price Index, the
National Center for Education Statistics
reports.

US. Intelligence’s
Long ’59 Returns

Dr. David E. Long 59, current di-
rector of the U. S. State Department’s
section on Middle East intelligence and
research, returned to Davidson Thurs-
day, 4 November, to share his expe-
rience in that volatile region of the
world.

Long participated in a forum on
“The Middle East After the Lebanon
Crisis” Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the 900
Room of the College Union. appearing
with himwas visiting distinguished pro-
fessor of political science Dr. Shepard
Jones, and Dr. Lou Ortmayer, political
science professor and director of the
Center for Special Studies. The Center
for Special Studies sponsored Long’s
visit.

Long studied under Jones for his
master’s degree in international rela-
tions at the University of North Carolina
after graduating from Davidson. He re-
ceived another master’s degree from the
Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy,
and earned a Ph.D. degree in Islamic
Studies from George Washington Uni-
versity.

His career in the State Department
includes several years with American
embassies in Saudi Arabia, Algeria, and
the Sudan. In 1972, he received the W.
Averell Harriman Award for distin-
guished service to the department.

Long is currently on leave to write a
book about the Middle East. He has al-
ready-authored several volumes on the
region, including his most recent work
title, “Modernization in Saudi Arabia.”

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982

4
