From the Locker Room

Grandstand Coach/Football Coach Convention and the Faculty Line

By STEVE SOUD ’84

Being from the vast Northern wilder-
ness some call Maryland, I never heard
the all-too-often true maxim, “Hind-
sight is 20/20,” until I came to North
Carolina. Those of us who look back
upon the football team’s 2-3 record have
some idea now of what we as coaches
would have done in certain situations
that Ed Farrell didn’t do. In some cases
our 20/20 vision (and his, for that mat-
ter) is clear. In other cases we don’t see
things as clearly as we might think.

On Monday convened what I think to
be the first-ever Davidson grandstand
coach/Davidson football coach confer-
ence on Hindsight coaching. (I by no
means present the opinions of the grand-
stand coach as mine, nor are any of the
football coach’s specifically Ed Far-
rell’s. The questions and comments of
the grandstand coach are what I feel the
fans are asking; the football coach’s rep-
lies what Coach Farrell has replied to
similar queries. Do not construe this as
an actual conversation. )

Grandstand Coach: Coach, we
think your team should be 3-2 right
now. Certainly no one expected Madi-
son to play as well as they have, and in
retrospect we think Wofford is a more
talented ball club (especially after they
pasted Elon Saturday), although we all
agree the score should never have been
54-zip. That, of course, leaves the New-
berry loss. Four times we had the ball
well within scoring range and when 4th
down came up you chose to go for the
first down instead of the field goal. Why
not try the field goal?

Football Coach: I weighed the alter-
natives and decided it was better that I
not let the freshman kick. He’s never
played football before and that was a
real pressure situation. It’s not like
we’ve got Wayne Paymer out there any
more. The following week against
James Madison he missed a field goal.
Who’s to say he would have hit or
missed it against Newberry? Maybe he
would have made it and we might have

°

Here’s what the professors predict:

won 10-8. Then again, we might have
executed well on one of the fourth down

plays.

GC: About that Madison game,

why’d you leave the defense in ona 4th .

and 9 punt? They wound up scoring off
that. Even if they thought they might try
a trick play, they probably wouldn’t
think to try it with nine yards to gain. It
wound up costing us a 7-6 lead.

FC: Looking back I probably should
have left the defense in a normal de-
fense. But our punting team probably
could not have stopped a trick play—v-
ery few of them play on defense. Our
defense practices as our second punting
team anyway. Normally in that situation
Keith Ellis, a junior, is back there to re-
ceive, but he was hurt. Derek Whitten
just made a freshman mistake. We have
a hard and fast rule to not play a ball past
the ten. Under the pressure he made a
freshman mistake which he’ll never
make again in his Davidson career. Lest
you criticize him too much, though, re-
member he broke two possible touch-
down passes later in the game.

Again, looking back, I probably
should have left a straight defensive for-
mation in.

GC:Saturday for the first time we

broke some long plays—Poag’s 74-yard °

run and Walker’s 66-yard run. What are
you doing differently now that you wer-
en’t against Madison or Newberry?

FC: Nothing. We’re just getting
better. We’re a relatively young team
yet. Mike Longmire is just leaming how
to play fullback, really. One of our
guards (a key position in the Wing-T of-
fense), Keith Rollins, is just a sopho-
more. They’re getting the hang of it.

The play Poag ran for the touch-
down is th same play that Keith Martin
had the pass batted down on in the New-
berry game. The difference is execu-
tion.

GC: Why haven’t we been able to

execute before? -

eon

Jo Archie (Secretary to Dean of Students)—St. Louis in 5
Frank Bliss (English)—St. Louis in 7

Robert DeSieno (Chemistry, CSC)—St. Louis in 7
John Engell (English)—Milwaukee in 6

George Greer (Baseball)—St. Louis in 6

Tom Kazee (Political Science)—St. Louis in 6
Ben Klein (Mathematics)—Milwaukee in 6

Peter Krentz (History)—St. Louis in 4

Cindy Lewis (English)—St. Louis in 6

Bob Manning (Physics)—Milwaukee in 6

Mike Moore (Wildcat Club)—St. Louis in 5

the We

_ FC: We just don’t have a lot of
confidence in what we’re doing. We

play afraid to make mistakes. That

causes you to be tentative. In a rebuild-
ing situation the most difficult thing is a
mental thing. We need to instill the con-
fidence of success.

GC: Coach, you’ve had some
years to do that. Another thing we ques-
tion is the Wing-T offense. Isn’t it out-
moded?

FC: Not really, a number of
schools in the Northeast run it. Dela-
ware, Lehigh, Bucknell, and Maine all
run it. Notre Dame ran it up until just a
few years ago.

We use it because it suits our per-
sonnel. We’re never gonna have enough
athletes up and down to run the I-forma-
tion. It’s an intricate offense, but we
have the mental capability to run it.

It’s a solid offense. We can run four
different plays, and yet the backfield
mechanics will all look the same to the
defense. We simply need to execute bet-
ter. We haven’t been executing well
enough consistently enough.

GC: We’re 2-3 when we should be
3-2 or better. What are you going to
have to do to beat teams like South Ca-
rolina State, which are national powers?
How can you get the team to execute the
way it did against Guilford?

FC: Again, it’s all a matter of con-
fidence. I’m not sure that even if we do
execute as well against South Carolina
State as we did against Guilford we
wouldn’t get beaten still. We have to
hope to play our best so far and to catch
them on an off day. We have to expect
to go 5-0 from here and finish 7-3. And
right now we’ve got that kind of atti-
tude.

So ends the first-evér meeting of the
twain. It seems to me that to apply that
to Davidson football, we in the stands
must see the rationale behind some of
Coach Farrell’s moves, and he must
look back and apply any lessons learned
to the future.

SERIES.

Series prospects

While Braves fans worldwide are la-
menting the loss of their ignominious
Indians, Major League Baseball goes
on. More specifically, we go to the
World Series. ,

Tuesday afternoon, before the start
of the Series, I endeavored to comb the
halls of Chambers in search of the facul-
ty scoop on which team was going to
win the October Classic and just how
many games the venerable professors
think it will take. As one would expect,
I came upon some interesting answers.

I stumbled up a few blind alleys. Dr.
Brockway asked, “Is there a World Ser-
ies? I’d have a 50 percent chance of be-
ing right.” Dr. Lewis-Standfield wasn’t
quite sure just which teams were in the
Series. When I told her St. Louis was
playing Milwaukee, she replied, “St.
Louis is a little closer to where my
brother lives, so I'll take St. Louis.”

“In how many games?” I asked.

‘What are my choices?” . . . Jimmy
the Greek never used a better system.

Dr. Kazee took a more logical tack.
After pondering the question for a few
moments, he said something that
sounded like, “Banjo hitters beat power
hitters when there’s good pitching,” and
proceeded to make his choice. Dr.
Krentz, starding nearby, made sure I
knew the only reason he chose St. Louis
in four was because he’s from St. Louis.

Down in the confines of the Athletic
Department I came upon two lost souls
whose teams are eliminated, some
sooner than others. Charlie Slagle
couldn’t say “The Braves in four” as he
would have liked, but he went so far as
to choose Ted Simmons as MVP.
Equipment Manger John Byrd said,
“Minnesota in nine.” I’m still not sure
whether he meant nine years, nine dec-
ades, or what...

Finally, College President Sam
Spencer took a “real shot in the dark,”
but if I’m right almost everyone else
was shooting at things that go bump in
the night. I say Milwaukee will win it at
the wire again, seven games.

Cora Nelson (Economics)—“favors” St. Louis
Lou Ortmayer (Political Science)}—Milwaukee in 7
Ernie Patterson (Economics)—St. Louis in 5
David Shi (History)—St. Louios in 6

Charlie Slagle (Soccer)— Milwaukee in 5

Sam Spencer (College President)—Milwaukee in 5
Will Terry (Dean of Students)—St. Louis in 7
Jason Thompson (Economics)—Milwaukee in 7

Soud is Sports Editor of The Davidsonian.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 OCTOBER 198

17
