From the Recruiter’s Car Part II

“This is an ‘important recruiting
class for us. This is where we bee our
tradition.” ,

Gerry Vaillancourt. is “right. It’s
been a big year, and the program started

some tradition. But a less conspicuous -

tradition than bringing in quality players
is how to bring in quality players. I
again chanced’ into’ Coach Vaillan-
court’s. world of chyckles and grins
(which has turned into big, big grins af-
ter national signing day), and talk
turned to how this young staff signed
these six young recruits.

“First of all we sat down as a staff
and we analyzed what our needs were at
the beginning of the year.” It took no
great deductive genius on the coaches’
part to realize they needed to beef up the
front line. The classes of 1982 and 1983
were going to leave voids there.

According to Coach Vaillancourt, if
Davidson starts out with twenty pros-
pects, only six will qualify academical-

ly. “So now out of these:six you find |
which one of those players can make us

a better team.” By the time they had that
done they were down to about 20% of
the basketball class of 1982. ;
Then. ‘Coaches: Hicklin and Vaillan-
court, having divided their regions into
the Midwest and East, hit the basketball
camps. There they kept track of their
prospects,-and when they got together
later on they traded their notes on play-.
ers. By that time there were very few
players left under consideration.
“Then,” says Coach Vaillancourt,
“you start your depth chart. In other

words, who’s top priority, who’s some- .

body you really have to spend a lot of
time with, etc.,; etc. Now you screen
them for interest level, and you do this
by finding out who your competition is-
—what other schools are involved with
this particular prospect. That’s very im-
portant because there: are times when
you can recruit against the wrong peo-
ple.” Davidson would rather go up
against an Ohio Valley Conference
school than an ACC or Big 10 school.

Then the coach set about evaluating the

other school’s needs. If both schools are ”

going after a point guard and the other
school already has two freshman point
guards, it’s a good guess they won't re-
cruit’as hard.

“Also you have to look at the style of
ball that you play,” Vaillancourt says.

“This confuses a lot of people. estie.

programs player'A is a good player. To
our program he may be a great player,
because that’s determined by your sys-
tem. That’ Diba bercade \neaaar

highly recruited to go a particular
school, pick the right system, and be-
come very, very good players.
“Finally,” says Vaillancourt, “there
comes a point when you have your staff
meeting and you say, ‘We would like to
have these players. These are the play-
ers we have to have to get our program

important, I think, in recruiting. If a

- player wants to commit early, you may

do things with that player that -you may
wait to do. with a player that wants to
wait until April.”

So the coaches sit down and map out
a plan of recruitment. They schedule
home visits and times to watch practices

Football:
Basketball:

i} All other sports:

(Place “X" in proper box above)

Name of student

Street Number

This is to certify my decisiontoenrollat =. __.

— :
1982 MEN’S NATIONAL LETTER OF INTENT

(Administered by the Collegiate Commissioners Association)

Do not sign prior to 8:00 a.m. February 10, 1982
and no later than May 1, 1982

Do not sign prior to 8:00 a.m. April 14, 1982
and no later than May 15, 1982

Do not sign prior to 8:00 a.m. April 14, 1982
and no later than August 1, 1982

(Type proper name including middle name or initial)

Address —_— i pee ine sare

1982

.
~ City, State, Zip Code

Name of Institution

"IMPORTANT - READ-CAREFULLY _

we
It is important to read carefully this entire document, including the reverse side, before signing this Let-
ter in triplicate. One copy is to be retained by you and two copies are to be returned to the inStitution, one
of which will bé sent to the appropriate conference commissioner.

of intercollegiate competition in any sport.

a oe However thesexestrictions. will not apply to-me:

(a) If | have not. by the opening day Of its classes in the fall of 1982, met the requirements for admission to the
institution named above, its academic requirements for financial aid to athletes, and the NCAA 2.000 GPA

requirement; or

ing my first year in junior-college; or

least eighteen (18) months; or

such financial aid.

1. By signing this Letter, | understand that if | enroll in another institution participating in the National Letter of
Intent Program, | may not represent that institution in intercollegiate athletic competition until | have.been in
residence at that institution for two calendar years ana in no case will | be eligible for more than two seasons

(b) If | attend the institution named above for at least one academic year; or
(c) If! graduate from junior college after having signed a National Letter of Intent while in high school or dur-

(d) If | have not attended any institution (or attended an institution, . including a junior college, which does not
participate in the National Letter of Intent Program) for the next academic year after signing this Letter,
provided my request for the originally specified financial aid for the following fall term is not approved by
the institution with which I signed. In order tO receive this waiver, | must file with the appropriate con-
ference commissioner a statement from the Director of Athletics at the institution with which | signed cer-
tifying that such financial aid will not be-available to me for the requested fall term; or

(e) If 1 serve on active duty with the armed/forces of the United States or on an official church mission for at
(f) If my sport is discontinued by ther institution with which | signed this Letter.
2. | understand that THIS Is NOT AN’ ‘AWARD OF FINANCIAL AID. If my enrollment decision is made with the

understanding that | will receive. financial aid, | should have in my possession before signing this Letter a writ-
ten statement from the institution which lists the terms and conditions, including the amount and duration, of

\-certify that | have read aif terms and conditions on pages 1 and 2. fully understand, accept and agree to be bound by
them. (All three copies:must be signed individually for this Letter to be valid. Do not use carbons.)

SIGNED _
Student Date Time
SIGNED _
Parent or Lega! Guardian Date Time
Submission of this Letter has been authorized by:
SIGNED _
Director of Athletics Date Issued to Student Sport

ed

going.” That’ 8 iat the work begins.
“Now you sit down and you plan and

you get a schedule as to the means and
the methods as to recruiting this particu-

lar player.
“All players cannot be recruited the

_ same way,” he continued. “Some play-

ers like to be recruited for a long period

_ of time, some know right away where
“they want go to school. You have to try —
to read that. a aes ee ery

and games. This year, however, they
did a few things differently.

“This year we came in late as a staff,
so we had to spend a lot of time with

_ [six] key recruits, For example, Robbie

went out to see a recruit in the Midwest

- eighteen times. Now, that-doesn’t al-
- Ways work with a. prospect, but we’re

fortunate that it worked with these kids
because we had a unique situation this
year. debi eet csiaeaccuaee

tant campus. visit. The campus
"brings it all together, the truth comes

Normally, coaches will go to watch
practices before they go into the home,
but because this staff wanted to jump on
these key prospects, they went into the
homes first. The home visits began last
fall, before players had begun practice
anyway.

Once in the home, a coach presents
his program. Says Vaillancourt, “That’s
a very important part of recruiting be-
cause it’s a first impression. We will go
into a home and we’ll explain the aca-
demics, get a feel for the family, and al-
low them to get to know us. Then, when
the timing’s right, according to the
schedule, Coach Hussey will go into the
home, because wherrhe goes in we will
have already covered the academics, the
idiosyncrasies, all the other things.
Then he can come in and the family
meets him because this is the man
you’re gonna be playin’ for.” These vis-
its can be anywhere from an hour to five
or six hours. Coach Vaillancourt spent 7
1/2 hours with one family. Vaillancourt
continued, “So it got to the point where
the families got to know us so well that
they knew everything we were all
about, and we were able to demonstrate
our sincerity very, very early.”

Then comes the playeér’s season,
and for coaches that means going to
practices and games, writing and calling
prospects often, and lots of the time on
the road. Part-of the big recruiting drive
comes from alumni.

“Our alumni help us in recruiting
tremendously. They will write the play-
er. They’Il call the player at home. If the
guy wants pre-law, we’ll have alums in
the law business explain the strengths of
the program at Davidson. Now, of
course, other programs do the same
thing. You have to do it in a way which

‘makes Davidson seem unique.”

- Which brings up an interesting
question. Just what do. other schools
have to say about Davidson? According
to Coach V., “Well, for example, they
were saying we don’t have a commit-

‘ment. to a program, which is false.

‘You'll never win at. Davidson. They

_ don’t play anybody.’ Now that’s a joke,

because any intelligent person can look
at our schedule and see who we play.

‘We overcame a lot of adversity, which

is acompliment to the kids we recruited.
They saw through all the adversity.”

Next on the agenda is the all-impor-
visit

out. And in each case, when the coaches
asked what was the decisive factor in

- Continued on.

