Defunkt

Thermonuclear Sweat

By JON GLANCE ’84

Here’s your Pop quiz for the week: what’s tight and
mean and goes Funk-Funk-Funk-Spit? If you hap-
pened to answer “Defunkt,” you’ve been doing your
homework. If you didn’t answer right, you’ve been
missing one of the hottest bands out on the funk / New
Wave / free jazz fringes, and you should rectify this si-
tuation at once. Defunkt is the brainchild of trombonist
Joseph Bowie (brother of Lester Bowie from the Art
Ensemble of Chicago) and resembles at times a mutant
strain from George Clinton’s more acid-dipped para-
noias. On Thermonuclear Sweat, their second album,
Bowie and Defunkt stretch out in a funky urban-groove
that epitomizes a state of fear and loathing in Megalo-
polis.

The basic Defunkt sound is a tight rhythm of driv-
ing drums and a bubbling and backfiring bass line,
overlaid with horns whinnying like Don Ayler and har-
melodic guitar scratchings (for point of reference see
James Blood Ulmer). Cutting through the mix is Jo-
seph Bowie’s breathless, fearless voice, invoking
more dread than anyone this side of Linton Kwesi
Johnson. Sorry for the obscure name-dropping, but
Defunkt doesn’t sound like many groups within one’s
standard region of acquaintance. Perhaps picturing a
cross between the Isley Brothers and James White and
the Blacks might give you an idea, if you’ ve ever heard
of them. This band, however, deserves better than to be
pigeonholed in strained comparisons — these guys are
about the best at what they do, which is making angry
dance music.

The most representative song on this extremely
versatile album is “Avoid the Funk,” which goes from
Joseph Bowie's percussive sputters to a killer groove
reminiscent of Funkadelic circa Hardcore Jollies, be-
fore succumbing to free-blowing pyrotechnics and a
chant that claims “Avoid the funk / Funk’s gonna get
you anyway.” They’re right—it does. Just when
you're adjusted to that, Defunkt breaks into a hard bop
cover of Charlie Parker’s “Big Bird (Au Private)” that
shows off some awfully flashy jazz chops. And when
the jazz is still fading out, two insinuative guitars
scratch out an intro into the O’Jays’ “For the Love of

Record Reviews with Jon

Money”! This is definitely the best cover of this song

I’ve heard—just the right tone between nihilistic

anarchy, righteous indignation at “the almighty dol-

lar’, and supercool apathy is attained. I tell you,

you’ ve got to hear this LP to believe it; and even after
repeated listenings I’m still surprised by the sheer
depths of feeling and technique exhibited. Defunkt has
certainly improved since the rather unfocused threaten-
ings of “Strangling Me with Your Love” on their last
album. If you develop a taste for this type of music, it
will reward you by making you dance and think—or,
in the words of George Clinton, “Free your mind, and
your ass will follow.” That sentiment pretty much gets
to the heart of Thermonuclear Sweat.

Glance=

by John Lyday ‘84

Sara Velez, Associate Director of Admissions, from New York University
School of Law will be at Davidson College on October 6, 1982 from 3:00 until
5:00 to speak with interested persons about admission to New York Univer-
sity School of Law, and to answer any questions about the Law School. For
further information contact the Office for Experiential Programs and Life /

Work planning.

| SAS A A hae tee aie ae Lai citeiibiainimmammaiiamiciuiiiiie RTT.

10

THE DAVIDSONIAN/1 October 1982
