aan ao he he a

RATINGS SYSTEM:
**** Classic; a must-see movie.
Very good; well worth it.
Good; no masterpiece but a fine show..
Mixed bag; some good, some bad.
Ugh! Pretty bad, but could have been

ee Vo)

* KK

** 1A

*
worse.

*'4 Total trash; don’t bother.

X Miss this film at all cost, or better yet catch

a revival showing of “Attack of the Killer Toma-
toes.”

Body Heat

(Body Heat, written and directed by Lawrence Kasdan;
starring William Hurt, Kathleen Turner and Richard
Crenna) Rating: ***'4. Viewer’s Guide: Adult Situa-
tions, Nudity, Violence.

Lawrence Kasdan’s excellent, lustful, romantic
tale Body Heat will be shown at Love Auditorium on
Friday. It is a film experience not to be missed. Set in
Miami, Body Heat completely wraps up the viewer
in its sweltering, sensual story: Ned Racine (William
Hurt), a bored Miami lawyer, meets Matty (Kat-
hleen Turner) at a jazz festival and immediately the
“body heat” can be felt. Of course they fall for each
other in spite of the fact that Matty is already mar-
ried. Ah, but hubby is a mere obstacle to be dealt
with, they reason, and here is where the film takes
off, slinking to an incredible twist ending. Body
Heatis superb, a film not to miss, and all those in-
volved (particularly Kasdan) should be congratulat-
ed for bringing back that antiquated movie genre
known as film noir’

Using Miami’s heat as a metaphor to Ned and
Matty’s relationship, the film explodes with passion.
The heat is everywhere. Air conditioners are seen in
almost every frame and sweat is visible by the gal-
lon, and amidst all this humidity is the hottest pair of
all, Ned and Matty. William Hurt and Kathleen
Turner take up most of the footage in Body Heat, and
they carry the film with a style that makes both of
them the first real “superstars” of the eighties.

Some late-night movie fans may notice the re-
semblance Body Heat has to such golden oldie flicks
like Double Indemnity and The Postman Always
Rings Twice (possible Fine Film candidates?) This is
not coincidental. These movies all fall under the ge-
nre in cinema known as film noir, i.e., movies char-
acterized by dark, moody sets, and even darker tones
and themes. Body Heat is an excellent example of
film noir. When it’s not hot, it’s very dark, with
plenty of shadowy rooms and characters. Here writ-
er-director Lawrence Kasdan must be given credit.
He has taken a basic genre and instead of imitating it,
has expanded on it, giving film noir applicability in
movies today. While not as illustrious as Steven
Spielberg or Alfred Hitchcock, Kasdan is equally as
good in his own way. Just look at his track record: he
scripted The Empire Strikes Back and Raiders of the
Lost Ark (both for LucasFilms) and then, showing
the ultimate in versatility, directed and scripted Body
Heat, acomplete change from his previous films. He
is good, and so is Body Heat. Watch out for Kasdan;
he, like Hurt and Turner, is sure to hit it big in the

Bot we om 86 wR eT ETERS ©

aie eS

East of Eden

Fans of Stanislavski’s school of acting will not
want to miss James Dean’s performance in East of Ed-
en, nor will those seeking just plain good entertain-
ment. East of Eden, which is playing Saturday at Love
at 7:00 is a brilliant, beautiful film, centering around
two brothers’ attempts to gain the affections of their fa-
ther. It’s easy to see, even today, how the characters
James Dean portrayed in his films became so popular
to the youth of the fiftiés. His Cal in East of Eden is a
completely independent, slightly anti-establishment,
very mixed-up kid. In spite of some good performan-
ces by such fine actors as Raymond Massey and Albert
Dekker, Dean towers over them all with his amazingly
realistic portrayal.

John Steinbeck’s novel about California in the ear-
ly twentieth century is only partially covered here, but
the film is just as good as the book. Director Elia Ka-
zan, a true modern-day genius, is known not only for
his fine films like On the Waterfront and Streetcar
Named Desire, but also for his excellent books like
America America. He is in full swing here and keeps
this huge epic moving at a quick pace. James Dean per-
fectly complements Kazan’s directorial talents, and in
fact, Dean is the main reason to catch East of Eden—a
ahaace to see a true pro in action.

ae os ©

East of Eden,directed by Elia Kazan; written by’
John Steinbeck, starring James Dean, Raymond
Massey and Julie Harris Rating: **** Viewer’s
Guide: Rated G.

Robin and Marian

Robin and Marian, this week’s Fine Film is decid-
edly not very fine. In fact, offhandedly, I can’t think
of a movie in recent years that so gratuitously strips
such beloved characters as Robin Hood and Maid
Marian of all their magic. The film is extremely vio-
lent, cold, and strangely, uninvolving. It is a shame
that Robin and Marian is so bad because it does have
two star performers, Audrey Hepburn (returning to
the screen after a long hiatus) and Sean Connery.
Their chemistry together is dynamite, but alas, even
they cannot save Robin and Marian.

What’s the problem? Well, I think it all must come
down to two people: the director, Richard Lester (A
Hard Day’s Night, Petulia) and his “revisionist”
screen writer James Goldman. “‘Revisionist” is not
the word for it; try “destroyer.” Goldman and Lester
have taken the romantic escapist tale.of Robin Hood
and twisted it around until it is as real’ as life, and as
depressing. Sherwood Forest has lost all of its regal
atmosphere and now seems more like the ghetto in

(AARARRAAR IS we

7?

“Film F EVIEWS wi with

a a

pads aa)

P rae

“se seree rae Keir

aed 1 Sine wai Se nee wh By Sy
i FASE sata Bp 2

oe.

Matt Morris

West Side Story. The Sheriff of Nottingharn does not
just injure his enemies, he -sadistically slaughters
them, with all the blood and guts in clear view (and
some really garish sound effects). The same applies
to Robin and his jolly band of middle-aged losers.
By breaking down this fantasy tale into a true reflec-
tion on life, Lester and Goldman fail to entertain.
This is not tu say that depressing films aren’t enter-
taining (for example, [The Midnight Cowboy,
Grapes of Wrath), yet in Robin‘and Marian no at-
tempt is made to show the magical elements of these
characters.

In spite of all this, the two leads do work together
perfectly and occasionally the rest of the film jibes
with their performances. One particularly beautiful
scene shows Robin and Marian meeting again for the
first time since the crusades. It is a loving, tender se-
quence, and for a moment the audience believes that
Robin will conquer the baddies and Sherwood will
be like it was before he left. But alas, this is just bait
on a hook. After Lester has dragged the audience
through his worldly romp, it is quite possible that
they will leave Love Auditorium feeling sick of life,
not to mention movies.

(Robin and Marian, directed by Richard’ Lester
revisionistscript by James Goldman; starring Sear
Connery, Audrey Hepburn and Robert Shaw) Rat:
ing: **'4.Viewer’s Guide: Graphic Violénce.

12

THE DAVIDSONIAN/1, October 1982
