Editorial
Nobel Prize Winner
Comes to Davidson

Although it has not made the announcement sheet yet, a Nobel
Peace Prize winner is on the way to Davidson. Probably the
youngest ever to receive a Nobel Prize, twenty-one-year-old
Amnesty International will make its first Davidson appearance this
Monday from 9:30 to 12:00 in front of the P.O. If two people,
behind a table, asking for signatures and support do not look
important, look again. Behind that table lie over a quarter of a
million people from 151 countries whose sole uniting concern is the
release of prisoners of conscience.

The short mandate found on every Amnesty International letter
head is worth quoting: “Amnesty International is a world-wide
human rights movement which works impartially for the release of
prisoners of conscience: men and women detained anywhere for
their beliefs, color, ethnic origin, sex, religion or language,
provided they have neither used nor advocated violence. Amnesty
International opposes torture and the death penalty in all cases
without reservation and advocates fair and prompt trials for all
political prisoners. Amnesty International is independent of all
governments, political factions, ideologies, economic interests;
and religious creeds.”

Born in 1961, Amnesty International is the brainchild of
Londoner Peter Benenson. After reading an article about two
Portuguese students arrested for toasting to freedom, “Benenson’s
first impulse . . . was to go to the Portuguese Embassy in London
and lodge a personal protest. But then he had second thoughts:
What, he wondered, would be the reaction of an oppressive regime
to such an individual protest . . . What was needed in such cases was
a powerful barrage of world-wide protests impressing on the
dictators that international public opinion would not let them get
away with acts of injustice.”(Larson, A Flame in Barbed Wire).

Amnesty International is perhaps the most directed and effective
human rights organization in the world. Besides sponsoring
grassroots letter-writing campaigns to those responsible for
prisoners of conscience, most college Amnesty International
organizations sponsor films, lectures, and discussions aimed at
educating the community in human rights. The Davidson chapter’s
first project will be a petition drive against the current, harsh Obote
rule in Uganda. .

Amnesty International projects may seem a bit distant and
farfetched for some Davidson students. Writing letters once a
month and attending lectures will not cure the world in one blow,
but it cannot hurt. Once in a while an Amnesty International group is
able to see their work bear fruit. Last year.at Carleton College, two
East Europe. itical prisoners were released after nearly a
decade of imprisgnment. Both prisoners credited the Carleton
Amnesty International chapter with their release.

An Amnesty International chapter is a fair deal. Although the
Davidson chapter may not be immediately responsible for the
release of prisoners of conscience, the group will be responsible for
education in human rights issues. It will not hurt at all for Davidson
to look beyond North Mecklenburg. If you are interested, drop by
the post office or tlie Union desk Monday thru Wednesday . Alat
Davidson. is a good thing.

Hoipolloi

Having remained slothfully secured in the undeniable comfort
of my bed until a dangerously late hour one morning last April, I
was forced to wolf down my breakfast and proceed baresoled to
class, just snaking in sluggishly before the final bell. I soon noticed
a rather clammy feeling between the toes of my feet and the marked
interest of my classmates in the somewhat fishy smell emanating
from the area of the desk on which I perched.

Which reminds me of a minor fly in my Davidson ointment, and
I might as well go ahead and let the cat out of the bag: I miss terribly
the early morning spectacle of those loveable mutts horsing around
hogwild beneath Chambers’s maids, romping and barking and
beating up on the small or strange ones, endlessly pursuing their
harebrained monkeyshines.

Life without dogs is hard to swallow. It really gets my goat.

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes let-
ters from our readers. We try to print
all letters that are of general interest,
but we adhere to these four guide-

To the Editor:

| lines:

1. We require that letters be in our
hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.

2. We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3. We require that letters be
signed and include the author’s phone
number and address. If you have a
compelling reason for us to withhold
your name, explain your situation to
the editor, Stewart Cauley.

4. We reserve the right not to print
letters that (a) function as advertise-
ments; (b) contain innuendo, off-co-
lor slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent
a viewpoint very similar to that ex-
pressed in many other letters printed
on the same topic. We also reserve the
right to.condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in ‘any
way endorse the opinions expressed

in the letters we print.

I am a white male, twenty-nine
years old, and currently serving a ten-
year prison sentence in the state of
Georgia.

I was in hope you could print my
name and address in your school paper,
as I am looking for someone to Corre-
spond with.

I am interested in art, and spend
much of my time drawing and working
with pastels. I would be happy to re-
ceive and answer a letter from anyone
wishing to share a smile.

Respectfully,

Johnny D. Brown EF 135601
7175 Manor Rd. JA
Columbus, GA 31907

THE DAVIDSONIAN/September 24, 1982
