_Record TEVIEWS __ with Jon Glance

There are a few performers who
don’t fit into any prescribed genres:
through their individuality (or idio-
syncrasies) they seem to float on top
of a number of musical styles without
getting bogged down in one. One per-
former who has bridged the tenuous
gulf between popular funk and New
Wave is a 22-year-old year old andro-
gyne named Prince. On /999, his
fifth album, Prince continues to ex-
plore the dark sociosexual surround-
ings of his last two LPs—Dirty Mind
and Controversy. Prince sets his
songs in a world where nothing any-
one does really matters except in the
most physical sense—therefore, sex-
ual ecstasy is the only viable answer
to eminent nuclear holocaust. 1999
never stops surprising the listener
with this unique point of view. Prin-
ce’s persona on the LP leaps from
dominating leather lover to vulnera-
ble sex object, trying to fulfill every-
one’s fantasy at once in this nonstop
celebration of abandonment.

The title song on this album illus-
trates Prince’s philosophy—as the
panic spreads over “judgement day”
on the verge of the year 2000, Prince
mildly explains that “life is just a par-
ty / And party’s weren’t meant to
last.” Instead of joining the running
throngs in the street under the purple
sky, he turns his back on 2000 and
parties like it’s 1999; the message is
“If I gotta die I’m gonna listen to / My
body tonight.” The rest of the double
album hymns this fundamentalist
hedonism. Prince is one instant a

would be Lothario on “Let’s Pretend
We’re Married” who pleads “Don’t
you wanna be my fantasy / My girl’s
gone, and she don’t care at all / And if
she did, so what come on baby let’s
ball.” Then he becomes a rejected,
confused victim of love in “Some-
thing in the Water” and “Lady Cab
Driver” (in this last song he once
again seeks escape in a taxi, as in
Controversy’s “Annie Christian,”
and he begs “Will you accept my tears
to pay the fare” before the cab ride be-
comes a sexual adventure). With such
a peculiarly hedonistic slant to all the
songs, one has to ask whether he’s se-
rious—don’t expect to get an answer
to this question, though. A gadfly like
Prince doesn’t intend to give you
something serious to hang onto in a
world which he feels is pretty absurd.
Listen to “D.M.S.R.” (or Dance

Music Sex Romance) and its direc- -

tions “Everybody, screw the masses /
We only want to have some fun / Do
whatever we want / Wear lingerie to a
restaurant / Police ain’t got no gun,”
which sums up the extent of Prince’s
alleged ideals for revolution. Is he se-
rious or what?

Although Prince may have some
bizarre ideas about sex and the world
in general, he is an exceptional musi-
cian. On /999 as on his last several al-
bums, Prince plays all the instru-
ments, sings all the parts (with a few
exceptions), writes and arranges all
the songs, and produces them as well.
While it might be expected that this
total artistic control would lead to

some degree of self-indulgence,
Prince exhibits signs of this only in
the rather excessive length of a few
songs and in the filthier sexual pass-
ages. But then, this is a party album,
so a few eight-minute songs aren’t
necessarily a bad thing. While com-
ing across at times like some mutant
synthesis of Rick James, Kraftwerk,
and an inflatable love doll, Prince is
his own man; on /999 he turns in
some really killer songs that stretch
out the variety of his repertoire with-

out neglecting his major themes of
sex, isolation, life in a degenerate so-
ciety, and more sex. It is nice to see
someone put out a well-planned dou-
ble album (all the sides are different
but thematically related) when most
bands are trying to get you to spend
your money on short EPs. If you have
never heard Prince, check him out;
wihtether you’re having a party or just
feel like losing some inhibitions, he’s
an intriguing example of the diversity
of music being produced today.

BB goes toa BB game

Now that basketball season is back to give us all
something to raise hell about, the B.B. decided to
bounce over to Charlotte Tuesday night to catch the
first in a series of games to be held in the Coliseum. As
you know, Davidson got wasted but so did we and so
we’ ve got to tell you that the real entertainment doesn’t
come from the game but from a few other things. See-
ing how tomorrow night Davidson plays University of
Massachusetts in Charlotte, we thought we’d recom-
mend a few things to do before the game and point out
what to look for once you’ re there.

The Tip Off

The ride to the Coliseum is an important part of
having a good time at the game. Because no booze or
beer is available in the Coliseum, we suggest you make
a quick beer stop before hitting I-77. If you’re tight on
bucks, Cashion’s quick stop sells six-packs of Busch
for $1.99. We recommend at least a six-pack per per-
son in order to get each fan ready for the fun.

The Fast Break
After getting your beer and hitting the road, start
drinking as you cruise down I-77. This is somewhat
risky, but all we can say is that you’re vulnerable on the
road so it pays to have good sense while you’ re driving.
Anyway, crank up the tunes, roll down the windows
and raise hell with all the other Davidson drivers rush-
ing to the game. We had a good time exchanging beers
with different cars. A note to the driver: when playing
this game, be careful not to accidentally bump the other
car off the road. It’s rude and perhaps illegal. Howev-
er, half the fun of this anarchist’s game of skill is that
there are no rules, so have fun and be careful.
The Slam Dunk
Once you arrive at the Coliseum, you can avoid
paying the $1 parking fee by finding a spot in the IHOP
parking lot. Once you’ ve turned off the car, leave the

14

‘ ‘ wary
~*e@e

tunes on as you quickly slam what’s left of the beer
down your parched throat. Ah yes, the throat. Be care-
ful with that part of your body because you’ll need it to
participate in what is most fun about Davidson basket-
ball games: shouting obscenities at the ref.
Pre-Game Show

What’s so great about the games in Charlotte is that
student seats are so close to the court. What’s so great
about sitting so close to the court is that you know the
refs can hear everything you’re screaming. When you
enter the Coliseum, go find your seat and get comforta-
ble. While waiting for the game to start, have a laugh
by checking out the crowd. What’s a real scream are
the people from Charlotte who pay five bucks and think
they’re seeing a real match or something. Get warmed
up by yelling salutations across the court to your
friends. Keep an eye out for any Davidson students in
blazer, tie, and shades. This type of attire is not recom-
mended. Instead, wear jeans and a loose-fitting shirt;
it’s much easier to flail your arms about. Besides,
screaming makes you sweat, so you’ll really not want
to wear a coat of any sort. Also, by wearing upper-class
clothing like coat and tie to a basketball game, your

~~ 2 we

spa “yea yan! ohn
» . ° é

rere 4¢@ 4 v

chances of getting rolled for being a wise-ass are a lot
higher.
How to Scream at the Ref

Once the game begins, note the little men in black
and white striped shirts and black slacks. These guys
are the refs and they are your enemies. Once the first
foul is called on Davidson, let the striped wimps have
it. If you’re still not sure what to do, find Jeff Andrews
in the crowd and watch closely. Always stand up when
you scream and use your hands to direct your sound to-
ward the court. Halfway into the first half you’ ll be into
it so much, you won’t have to worry about what to say,
it'll just come naturally.

Post-Game Blow Out

After the game, you’ll be in need of some more
beer in order to soothe your parched throat. Surprise!
It’s only 9:30 p.m. and the night is very open to sugges-
tions, so take advantage of the circumstances and find
the nearest beer stop.

So, all you Wildcat fans, enjoy yourselves Satur-
day night and let the refs know you’re thinking about
them.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/10 December 1982 ©

oe
We SOUS ae aS

ee
