__ The Educational Policies. Commit-
tee is currently considering a proposed
change in the grading scale which
would replace letter. grades with
numbers between 0.0 and 4.0.

“Why do we even bother with letter
grades?” asked Psychology Professor
John. Kelton, who first suggested the
simplified scale at an open EPC meeting
on April 12. “Some schools report
grades on a.100 point scale,” he said.

Professor Kelton cites several ad-
vantages. First, it eliminates the need to
translate final letter grades to numbers.
It also allows professors to distinguish
between different shades -of “good”
work by recording the student’s grade as
a precise number between 2.8 and 3.2
instead of a simple “B.” “It:gives you
leeway,” Professor Kelton explained:

This latest plan should answer.some
objections, to: earlier - proposals. The
original EPC proposal, modeled ‘after
scales used in graduate schools, would

lower the average GPA by 0.2. Like the .

SGA’s alternate:scale, the 4.0 point sys-
tem would leave GPAs relatively un-
changed... However, the SGA’s ‘scale
was non-linear; that is, it made the point
difference between a B- and a C plus
wider than between an A- and a B plus.

- Professor Kelton believes that, after us-

ing his scale for:a while, teachers and
students would stop trying to identify

grades. “J’m not unhappy with the pres-
ent scale,” he concedes, “but if we. need
a change. from the present system, ‘then
this: 4-point..scale is preferable to the

A News Focus

others we’ve looked at.”

But will a new grading scale in-
crease competition between students?
The SGA Senate debated the question in
.their Wednesday night meeting but
could not reach a consensus. Freshman
Senator . Ellen Papadeas said, “We
would still like to have no change at all,
but it looks as though there will be a
change.”

Religion professor Max Polley

commented, “I think this will put-more ~

pressure. on the ‘students at exam time
because every point counts,” but added,
“T think that’s all right. Students lose

some, but they gain some.” Calling the ©

finer: distinction between grades “neat,
very accurate,” he emphasized'that the
4-point scale would leave: professors
free to think in terms of letters if they
wish. “If a faculty member doesn’t like
this system, then he can still call a B
plus a 3.5. I'd announce to my class at
the outset of the course which way I
use.”

Many students view any change in
the grading scale with distrust. Fresh-
man Anne Morgan said, “This will in-
crease competition. It’s a really bad
idea.” Sophomore Jason Ratteree ex-
pressed a common view when he asked,
“Why don’t they leave it the way it is?”

The members of the EPC want to
hear more suggestions, criticisms, or
questions from the students before vot-
ing again Monday afternoon. Students
on the committee are Bill Purcell and
Todd Cowdery. Vice-president Zim-
mermann will also accept comments un-
til Monday.

If adopted by the EPC, Professor
Kelton’s proposal will be voted on by .
the entire faculty. “If we’re going to
make any proposal, we’d like to make it
at the May 3 faculty meeting so that it
can go into effect next year,” he said.

Diana Bohrer ’85

In 1850, Maxwell Chambers donated
$250,000 to Davidson—«w highly sub-
stantial gift by pre-Civil War standards.
Atthe time of Chambers’ gift, Davidson
was the wealthiest school south of Prin-
ceton. That--donation, which made
Chambers building a reality, piloted a
tradition of generous gift giving that has
extended over ‘a century of Davidson
history.

Throughout the years, other gifts to
Davidson have brought every dormito-
ry, the library, the gymnasium, and the
Commons into existence. Davidson
continues to receive extraordinary do-
nations—most recently ° $1 million

ORRIN hs TRF POE NE AERIS nate NN her ware rn

from E.H. Little-for the library which
bears his name. In fact, roughly 35% of
Davidson’s annual operating budget de-
pends on direct donations or revenue
from endowment which the school re-
ceives. The Davidson program, if it
“did not rely on gift giving, would be 2/

_3-of what it is at present,” Director of

Special’ Resources Julius Melton said.
Dr. Melton outlined three types of

gift giving which Davidson recognizes:

permanent endowment comprises cu-

mulative gifts which are always invest-
ed. The college spends only the income

generated by these investments; pres-
ently, Davidson has a “healthy” $50

million in permanent assets working for
it, Melton said. Annual gift-giving in-
cludes the Living Endowment ($1 mil-
lion for the first time, in 1981), the
Wildcat Athletic Fund, a strictly sports-
oriented fund, and WDAV support. An-
nual gifts or direct donations are ab-
sorbed almost immediately into the col-
lege expenses in their entirety. Deferred
gifts generally indicate that a donor has
included Davidson in his estate plans.
These. initial sums are invested, and
then rendered to the college upon the
donor's death. In the interim, interest

vidson budget. Continuedion page ©

