Never before have so many of the teams been so talented and so well coached

On all fronts, Davidson athletics are
preparing for good seasons. Never be-
fore have so many of the the teams been
so talented and well coached. The
coaches, many of them new, are recruit-
ing beyond all expectations, defying the

apparent limitations of their budgets.
Just fifteen months ago the Athletic
Department was mired in dark turmoil
with little light in sight. Fortunately, a
new athletic director and coaches have
turned their backs to all the unpleasant-

ness and have their eyes firmly locked
on future goals they full well plan to at-
tain.

The Davidson basketball empire fell
long ago. The Dark Ages of nonsuccess
are past. We now stand on the edge of a

renaissance—let’s not let it go by unno-
ticed and for future generations only.

Steve Soud ’84-

Cats Save Face,
Deteat Georgetown 33-21 ie

Glory halleluia! The Davidson Wildcats do have an
offense that can score and a defense that can stand its
ground, _. ;

Savor the victory, a 33-21 drubbing of the George-
town (KY) Tigers last Saturday before a sparse crowd
of 1500. Who cares that the opponent was young and
inexperienced? After all, a win is a win. But Coach Ed
Farrell did see an improved football team on the gridir-
on.

“Tt wasn’t exactly pretty ,” Farrell said, “‘but we defi-
nitely did play better football.”

In a sense, the game could have been dubbed the bat-
tle of the inepts considering Davidson was coming off a
54-0 loss and Georgetown a 70-13 embarrassment.
The Cats, however, erased the misnomer and played at
a level of respectability.

Of special notice was the performance of fullback
Mike Longmire. The sophomore rushed for 153 yards
on 27 carries and, more importantly, scored four
touchdowns, tying a Davidson single-game scoring re-
cord. Longmire was replacing starting fullback Bob
Miller, out with an ankle injury.

Longmire’s showing could make things tough on the
coaching staff when Miller returns, but as Farrell said,
“It’s the type of problem I like. Look at it this way: now
we have two starting fullbacks.”

Davidson went on top early as Stone Bynum reco-
vered a fumble at the Georgetown 21-yard line \That
turnover led to a three- yard touchdown plunge by
Longmire. The lead was short-lived as the Tigers came
right back to assume a brief 7-6 lead on a seven-play,
72-yard touchdown drive.

The Cats reestablished their lead at the 4:21 mark in
the second period on an 80-yard drive culminated by a
dazzling 21-yard sweep into the end zone by halfback
Leonard Walker. For the game Walker rushed for 96
yards on 16 carries and caught four passes for 37 yards.
Two minutes later, a muffed snap by the Tiger punter
put the Cats on the Georgetown 23, where they
punched it over in three plays.

Twice in the second half Georgetown pulled to with-
in a touchdown, but each time Davidson rallied to
score. The first Wildcat score came on a 15-yard jolt
off right tackle by Longmire, which ended a 76-yard
drive. The second came at the three-minute mark fol-
lowing a Tiger fumble on its own 30-yard line. In four
rushes Walker got the ball down to the two, whence
Longmire took it over for the score.

Statistically, Davidson had the clear: advantage,
leading in first downs 22 to 14, yards rushing 291 to
101, and total yards 378 to. 263. The Cats had just one
turnover to Georgetown’s five, three of which led di-
rectly to Wildcat scores.

Said Farrell, “There’s a difference between playing

winning football and letting the other team lose it: I

12 THE DAVIDSO

think the latter might be a little more true this time. We “Last week against Wofford we were always two
definitely had superior personnel, but we still were too steps behind the play. Now we’ve cut that down to
inconsistent, particularly on offense. The defense, too, one.” Maybe this week they will be there, as the Cats
was tentative, but only in the seconed half.” host always scrappy Newberry College (1-1), a 32-14

For the game, Georgetown passed for 162 yards to victor over Davidson last year. According to Farrell,
Davidson’s 87. “The secondary and undercoverage “It’s time to make amends.”
had a little letdown,” Farrell said, “but in practice our
pass defense has been great.”

Scott Huie ’85

Leer @ y FERED
wb yee,

oe wef rah

PEE

NIAN/September 24, 1982
