To.the Editor:

We the students of the Union Board
want to report several damages which
occured in the Union last Saturday
night. The damages include a four foot
hole in the wall of the 900 Room bal-
cony and a sink which was ripped off the
wall of the men’s restroom.

We are disappointed with the irres-
ponsibility displayed on Saturday night.
Several violations of the:Code of Re-
sponsibility occurred: not only did these
damages occur, but noone has come
forward to report them, either as a wit-
ness or as the guilty party: Also, several
students were found with alcoholic bev-
erages in undesignated places of the
Union. The 900 Room is the only desig-
nated area of the Union where alcoholic
beverages are allowed, :

We want to remind students that our
drinking beer and wine in the 900 Room
of the Union is a privilege. We have not
always had this privilege, and it is a
privilege ‘easily taken away from us if
we abuse it. Students abused this privi-
lege Saturday night when damages oc-
curred and when the drinking of alco-
holic beverages was not confined to the
900 Room of the Union. We face the
possibility of losing our privilege.

As students of Davidson College,
we are all bound by a Code of Responsi-
bility. As a student body, we need to

prove that we are responsible for our ac-,

tions and that we will not abuse the priv-
ileges given to us.

Sincerely,

The Davidson College Union Board ~

To the Editor,

In recent issues of the Davidsonian,
attacks have been unjustifiably levelled
at decisions involving Code of Respon-
sibility and Honor Code violations that
have been handled both administrative-
ly and by the Honor Council.

Specifically I am addressing two
statements which are a major part of this
attack. The first involves the feeling that
sanctions involving violations should be
made public so that members of the Ho-
nor Council can be held accountable for
their decisions. The second involves an
article that stated that the Honor System
is semipermeable. The implication of
this article is that sanctions are given in
regard to the offender and not necessari-
ly the offense.

In the four years I have been on the
Honor Council, there has not been one

‘case with which I have ben associated, -

whether handled by the Council or by
the administration, that would not stand
upto public accountability in.regard to
fairness. In making this statement I am
far from advocating that specific viola-
tions be made public because it would
be great infringement upon ‘privacy.
The student body entrusts a great deal of

responsibility to individuals elected to

the Honor Council. Counsil meribers
take this responsibility ‘very seriously
everytime a case is. heard: and believe
that their peers’ trust is accountability
enough in making a fair decision.

The allegation the the Honor Sys-
tem is semipermeable hurts. Council
members most and is simply not true. A
standard for minimum sanctions for Ho-
nor violations is enforced except in ex-
treme extenuating circumstances. This
has helped to assure the college commu-
nity that there is uniformity. in sanction
levied by the Honor Council and admin-
istration. In Code of Responsibility vio-
lations, Council memnibers determine
what is believed to be.a fair sanction re-
gardless of whom the offender might
be. No “deals” of any type are made.

Questioning the functioning of the
Honor Syustem can help strengthen it
however, unjustified attacks at people
doing their best to uphold'the system are
counterproductive and in the long run
hurt much more than help.

Stokes Peebles

Dear Editor:

Some advice please. Last month,
just after Thanksgiving break, my
roommate and I returned to our home‘on
second Cannon. We hadn’t been here
but a few days when lo and behold I

tried to pull down my windon shade and

it came down upon me. The shade was
broken and beyond repair. Rather than
give the guys in Sentelle a free show,
my roommate and I consulted and de-
cided to request a new shade for our
room from the Housing Office. I trotted
down to my RA and put in my request.
She then took it to our Housing Direc-
tor, Mr. Bill Bolding.

It is now the second week of Janu-
ary, 1982. Upon our return to campus, I
inquired of my RA the location of our
shade. She visited Mr. Bolding and
gave him our request again, marked “ur
gent.” We have yet to see our new

.~ shade.’

Our questions are: do we go to Ace
Hardwdre, buy a new shade and bill it to
the school or do we get a few shade
from the Housing Office? Do we con-
tinue to entertain the men of Sentelle
with our bathrobe antics or do we apply
to DCF’s needy fund?

Urgently,

Two-coeds from Cannon,
Suzanne Dickey and
Holly Spannuth

Dear Editor:

I believe that the creative contribu-
tions of countless individuals have been
an intrinsic aspect of America’ s growth

ae

"recent emergence as the leader of the

free world. Although these creative en-
ergiés have often been neglected and ev-
en stifled by the mainstreaming tenden-
cies of society, no small number of
brave individuals in the past have brok-
en free from these social fetters and hve
propelled America to the position it en-
joys today.

In light of these beliefs, 1 would like
to protest what I believe to be a grave
and short-sighted censorship of this
very creativity so important to the ad-
vancement of human interests: namely,
the painting over of graffiti in our dor-
mitory restroom facilities. The facilities
I use, for example, were painted some-
time over Christmas break, an action
apparently sanctioned by the campus
administration. Now, lifeless, gray
walls greet the patron instead of the
once bountiful treasury of insightful ax-
ioms.

Indeed, the benefits of restroom
graffiti are readily apparent. During a
time traditionally devoted to day-

reams, newspapers, even intellectual
stagnation, the John Doe of our society
can pursue a creative and spiritually en-
riching experience while in a suitable
equipped stall. In truth, a host of con-
temporary scholars point not only to the
positive aspects of these transient peri-
ods of intellectual activity, but, more
importantly, they emphasize the long-
term, benefits that restroom graffiti
holds for our society. Writes one emi-
nent psychologist in a recent scientific

Asai PRY es
journal, “the availability of Festroom
graffiti should be of no little concem to

‘the contemporary citizen. These typi-

cally anonymous yet prophetic treasures
adorning our nation’s facilities signal
the never ending cultural and intellectu-
al evolution of our society.”

The study of past cultures and peo-
ples in humanities has taught me to ap-
preciate the importance of the written
word. Oftentimes, our knowledge of
these past civilizations depends soley on
their written records. Yet, from these
records, we can distill the thoughts, the
beliefs, the feelings, and the emotions
of its people. By learning to prize what
has survived the passage sae hu-
manities has also served toi inmea
glimpse of the absolute finality of the
written records that have been lost fore-
ver. Obviously, the perpetrators of this
most recent crime did not share this re-
spect for the written word. We were not
even warmed of the impending tragedy.

Based upon the points have made
above, I would like to underscore my
assertion that john wall censorship is so-
cially unhealthy and short-sighted. I am
willing, upon the request of similarly
concerned parties, to take formal action
in attempting to get the erasure of john
wall graffiti declared an honor-code vi-
olation. This universal threat to creativi-
ty and this violation of our fundamental
and unalienable right of free expression
must be stopped.

Barry Elledge, Jr. ’85
