-Record reviews with Jon Glance

Black Uhuru
Red

Reggae has come a long way since
Millie Smali scored a hit with “My
Boy Lollipop” back in the ’60s, but it
has remained the most stunning ex-
ample of a self-contained pop music
form. Seemingly immune from short-
lived trends, the genre has kept its
best traits of heavy rhythm, soulful

-|singing, intricate percussion, and .

often: pohitical/religious. lyrics. The
debut album by Black Uhuru (or
Black Freedom if you speak Swahili)
presents an affirmation of these ge-
neric traits while at the same time ad-
ding the new creativity possible with
the “dub” studio effects.

_. The: group Black Uhuru basically
consists of the three singers Michael
‘Rose, Puma, and Duckie Simpson,
with the lead male voice backed up by
a_ harmonizing female and falsetto

male voice, The lead singer Michael.

Rose,: has a very expressive voice
evocative of Bob Marley’ s and an ac-

cent which lends an air of authenticity

to the songs. The Rastafarian slang
employed in the lyrics also is both au-
thentic and exotic for most Western
ears. An example of the lyrics from

one of the songs, entitled “Puff She

_ Puff,” speaks of introspection with.
’ “Many a time when I check ‘my life

style/A been a living in another/Foot
step of another man/I no man man a
failure.” The local patois is kept from
being obtrusive by the relaxed deliv-
ery, which floats the listener away on

the rhythms.

Although the lyrics are very good
on this LP, the music is truly out-
standing. The vocal trio 1s backed up
by the Island Records studio musi-
cians, who are appearing on about ev-

ery third Jamaican album today.

These musicians include Sly Dunbar
(drums), Robbie Shakespeare (bass),
Sticky Thompson (percussion), and
Mikey Chung (guitar). These musi-
cians have previously appeared on al-
bums by performers from. Peter Tosh
to Ian Dury, and their instrumental
excellence produces a groove which
can be compared favorably with the

best reggae recortled: Near the end of

most of the selections on this album,
the various parts are broken down
with a tasteful use of some dub effects

which often Produces a trance-like .

rhythm. The excellent production
work by Dunbar and Shakespeare
shows, and their genius may be easily
heard. In addition, while some reggae
vbecomes tiresome ‘after repeated lis-
tenings, Black Uhuru holds up well.
The high praise for this album is
sincere — the album has been on my
turntable for the last three months.

“Red” stands out as an excellent debut

album for this new group, and should
appeal to both neophytes to music }
from Jamaica as well as the hard-core
lovers of the dread beat. ‘The eight -
smooth but hard-hitting . musical
vignettes on this LP show some of the
best of the more mainstream Reggae:

style.

Prinve of the Ci ity

Ak eview

Pop Film
Prince:of the City —
Director: Sidney Lumet
Producer: Burt Harris
Rated R
- This Friday night Sidney's s Lumet’s critically ac-

claimed Prince of the City makes its Davidson debut in

Love auditorium. ‘The film’s protagonist is Danny
Ciéllo, a New York City narcotics detective (played by
Treat Williams) who works with federal investigators
in uncovering high-level legal corruption. ;

Danny Ciello is torn apart in a struggle for power _

and an attempt to vindicate himself for his own guilt,
but the movie’s emphasis is not upon a lone hero in a

world of crooks. There are no real heros, hint dhieah

vors of the situation, survivors of guilt, corruption, and

an unattainable need on Danny's part to redeem him- |

self through busting high-level payoffs. ”
- The plot is really the movie’s strong point, and.as

it weaves ei a mene of grey and black complexi-

ty the viewer anxiously grasps for something more
concrete, safe, or secure than is provided. The anxiety
one feels stems from an inability to judge total guilt or
innocence in any of the examples of corruption pres-
ented. This inability creates a questioning of the exist-
ence of a distinction between right and wrong. One

begins to ask if, without this distinction; justice can

really prevail.

Treat Williams does an outstanding job portray-

ing Ciello at his emotional breaking point; however,
the character role itself does not reach the depths that
could be explored in such a thoughtful and psychologi-
cally explosive film. The other charcters, however,

show little passion and seem deadpan until the film's

climax. The minor portrayals of prostitutes, ‘junkies,

? and pushers are perhaps the best examples of acting un-

der Lumet’s direction

Three hours is a long time for a film to attempt
tension, and this one doesn’t always succeed, but over-
all the components lead one to an overwhelming sense

of the relativity of guilt and innocence and the arbitrary
nature of justice.

The Three Faces of Eve

director: Nunnally Johnson

rating PG

Thursday, March 258:00pm_

Joane Woodward won an academy award for best
actress in the leading role of this drama based on the.
true story of a woman with a multiple personality.
Don’t miss it! .

by Debbie Eisenbise ’82

12

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982
