A

= ,
7 wae ri

; —=—

a t } \ .

Dr. Welsh’s composition

By JON LAWRY ’83

On Sunday, 17 October, a small. yet enthusiastic
audience witnessed the world premiere of Wilmer
Hayden Welsh’s most recent composition Mosaic Por.~
trait II: The Golden Calf as part of the Vesper Concert
series. The performance by the Southern Saxophone
Quartet featured professor James Swisher as narrator
and the composer, Mr. Welsh, at the organ.

Mosaic Portrait II: The Golden Calf was commis-
sioned earlier this year by the Southern Saxophone
Quartet, one of the only such ensembles in this country
dedicated to performing classical saxophone literature.
At a festival of Wilmer Welsh’s music held in Clinton,
South Carolina, the first seed for the Golden Calf was
sown. Christopher T. Kelton, tenor saxophonist with
the Southern Quartet and faculty member at Presbyter-
ian College attended the festival, and later asked Mr.
Welsh if he would consider composing a piece for the
ensemble. A few weeks later, the Southern Quartet for-
mally commissioned him to write a piece for them,
specifying that it be religiously based.

Liturgical music scored for saxophone quartet is
certainly not a common occurrence—to most, the
sound of this instrument connotes jazz, and often sexu-
al images. The performance by the Southern Quartet at
Davidson demonstrated many possibilities in writing
concert music for saxophones. The problems Mr.
Welsh encountered were not in overcoming the limita-
tions, but rather, in controlling the diversity of the me-
dium. The flexibility, and especially the sensuality /
sexuality evoked by the sound of saxophones fit the
golden calf story well.

' On the first page of the score, Mr. Welsh describes
the interestisng title of the work: “A mosaic portrait is a
visual likeness achieved by inlaying stones of various
sizes and colors on a flat surface. Here, alternating nar-
rative and musical sections tell the Biblical story of the
golden calf from Exodus 32.” The seven narrative sec-

490 ‘

—¥ ap"

A page of the score showing graphic notation. This gives performers some liberty for interpretation.

The Golden Calf Resounds at Vespers

tions, in iambic pentameter, were also written by Mr:
Welsh. The eight musical “stones” are related by vari-
ous uses of a twelve-tone row. Each section was con-
ceived to stand on its own. The colors, the contrasts,
and the placement of the stones isolated this painting in
time, making for a unified story.

The piece surprisingly appealed to a wider au-
dience than usual for a Welsh composition. typical lab-
els affixed to music by Mr. Welsh liken it to the sound
of someone sitting on the organ keybeard, and the
more scholarly “weird” and “dissonant.” When asked
if he attempted to make his music more accessible to
the “common man,” Mr. Welsh replied that if any-
thing, his technique has become less accessible (ac-
cording to popular standards). He feels that there is a
growing acceptance of modern art music for several
reasons. Movies and TV are using “dissonant” music,
and both orchestras and radio play increasingly more
contemporary music. Religious music in particular,
has exhibited a desire for new expression (a major rea-
son for increasing awareness of Mr. Welsh’s works).
These are good signs, he feels, for now more people
are demanding new music with more substance, rather
than only overplayed “classics.”

Mr. Welsh, throughout his life, has been occupied ~

with church music, first as a chorister, then as organist,
choirmaster, composer, and teacher. Mr. Welsh joined
the faculty of Davidson College in 1963. Currently, he
is a professor of music, college organist, and chairman
of the music department. Mr. Welsh received a Bache-
lor of Science degree from Johns Hopkins University
and the degrees of Bachelor and Master of Music from
the Peabody Conservatory of Music, Baltimore. In ad-
dition, he was awarded the coveted Artist’s Diploma in
organ from Peabody. His organ and composition
teachers here and in Europe were henry Cowell, Ni-
cholas Slonimsky, Matyas, and Nadia Boulanger.
Known both as an organist and as a composer, he has
performed as an organ recitalist in many parts of the
country, often playing programs entirely comprised of

for saxophone quartet premueres

his own works. His music has been performed virtually
everywhere in the U.S. He has won many grants and
commissions from collges, churches, and foundations.
His compositions include four oratorios, two operas,
two concerti, a symphony, chamber music, anthems,
and works for organ alone and with other instruments.
As a religious experience, the Golden Calf is excit-
ing. It represents what many feel should happen in
order for one to truly understand one’s religion: the tak-
ing of what is given (here, the short story in Exodus),
carefully thinking it through, deciding what it means,
then taking a necessary step which is often overlooked
— experiencing it and clarifying it through some crea-
tive means. The Golden Calf is an eclectic work which
reveals the amount of thought necessary to express a
story by unifying the arts of music and poetry. It is sto-
ry of a people’s need for a touchable, knowable God:

A god without a body cannot know

The fearful, thirsty need to sip eternal

Life from any cup, to worship culves

That any Aaron makes, to smear the drying

Blood of any lambs upon the doorposts

Of our lives in hope that somehow, some way,

Thirsty Death will sniff and pass us over.
(Narration VII)

No one should overlook the value of having a crea-
tive artist within the Davidson experience. At times
there seems to be a lack of understanding of the word
creativity here. Creativity involves not only the consol-
idation and understanding of ideas, but the ability to do
something inventive with them, whether you are pre-
med, physics, or footbal. And part of the creative expe-
rience is seeing someone else do it.

Anyone interested in hearing a recording of the per-
formance of Mosaic Portrait II: The Golden Calf by
Wilmer Hayden Welsh should contact the music de-
partment—the west side of the plain building west of
the Guest House.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/S November 1982 7
