Opinions

Up to Elizabethan ee, Ireland » was almost exclu-
sively Catholic, However, with English conquest-and
colonization, the immigration of English and Scottish
protestants was encouraged by the English government

operating along: plantation lines, it was. hoped that.

these Protestant farmers. would make Ireland more
governable.. At was: . mostly to the North-eastern pro-
vince call Ulster that these farmers went, and it is from
this strategy of the English crown from 400 years ago
that the present troubles:stem. - °
The rest of Ireland remained 98% Catholic. Because
Irish affairs were- pas | in Parliament in London,

there grew up ats ot nesiert where these inter-
ests and prob d. In particular, land
ownership was a’§f ver: time, dissent
grew, and by 1916¢i been numerous re-
bellions and uprisings: ds for an Irish Parli-

ament went unmet and fit ally culminated i in the 1916
Easter Rising. Militarily, ‘the rising: was a complete
failure, but the British reaction of executing the 15
leaders had the effect of galvanizing demands for Inde-
pendence. Sinn Fein, (We‘ourselves) a political party,

harnessed this demand; it withdrew from the English -

Parliament and set up a popular government in Dublin.
After two years of this Britain gave in and granted free-

dom to Southern Ireland, ‘The. British held on to.North- «:-

ern Ireland, however, because Ulster contained over a
million Protestants (descendants of the plantation own-
ers and farmers) who supported a continued union with
Britain.

That was 60 years ago. During this time, Catholics
in Northern Ireland had been systematically discrimi-
nated against by the Protestant “Unionists.” By 1969,
Catholics -could not get fair housing or jobs and were
not represented in local government. In this year, the
Catholics held civil rights marches to demand reform.
The marches were broken up by the police force which
was wholly Protestant. The Irish Republican Army or
I.R.A. was formed to defend the rights of Catholics out
of the belief that democratic methods were useless. Al-

though Unionists were defended by the police, the Uls-

ter Defense Association or U.D.A. was formed as an
armed Protestant equivalent to the I.R.A. Both are ille-
gal.

In 1969 the British government sent army troops to
Ulster to keep the peace between the two violent fac-
tions. Thirteen years later, the two communities could
not be more polarized. The British troops identified
with the Unionists and came to be seen as an occupat-
ing army rather than a peace—keeping force by the
Catholics. Now Catholics feel that they can only get
fair treatment as part of a united Ireland. This the
Unionists completely reject, jasinting apen Ulster as a
British province.

This stalemate is illustrated: by the recent hunger
strike which received so much international attention.
Convicted-members of the IRA.have always been held

in special jails. Recently, they listed five demands or

reforms in the treatment accorded to them, The British

claimed that these demands amounted to “Prisoner of

». War” status for the IRA, which it could not give. These

prisoners had a great deal of support among Catholics
in the North, and one of them, Bobby Sands, was elect-
ed to serve in the British Parliament, winning 31,000
votes. The British were unmoved, afraid that P.O.W.

status would give a legal front to the IRA and so en-
courage even greater support. Sands refused all food,

and every two weeks another prisoner began a hunger
strike, waiting for the demands to be met. Many people

_ believed thatthe British could have compromised and,

without giving in to all the demands, could have
reached a solution. But the British and the hunger strik-
ers stood firm; Sands and nine others died of starvation
before the protest was called off. There. was no give or
take on either side, each intent upon complete victory.
As of now there seems to be no solution: But, if the
British want to retain Northern Irelatid as part of the
United Kingdom, it is their duty to offer a political in-
itiative after thirteen years of bloodshed,
million Protestants object to a United Ireland, fearing

discrimination, then that alternative’ cannot be offered -

as a way Out. On ‘the other hand, as long as‘Catholics
have grievances against British government, there will

be no peace: The longer the situation goes on, the hard-.-
er will be the solution in. coming ;-Many feel: that the...
British troops should be withdrawn and a United Na- |

tions peace keeping force set up. This would remove
one of the main IRA targets. The hardest part, howev-

er, and the key to the problem, is a complete rebuilding -

of the community: starting from the grass roots in edu-
cation right up to the local government councils.
Again, this requires give and take by both factions. Af-
ter over a decade of bloodshed, the people are tired;
most of them long for reconciliation and peace. Its po-
litics that holds this up.

by John Hackett

sosiet aS. vee,

; bs *. af Ay pis
Kenshin BS if ae ma gas SHE.

_ AS long as

" Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84 :

I ) Ireland: The Troubles

Open House
at Rusk

LastThursdaynight, Rusk held an open house. The
evening started at eight o’clock with a ladies’ lock-in

- during which they served beer and showed porno-

graphic movies in the basement. After the movies
ended, at nine- -thirty, men were invited to join the par-

* ty-Rusk did not organize this event exclusively for the
members of their own house and their dates, but gener-

eusly and selflessly opened it to the rest of the campus.
Many people on campus obviously appreciated the par-

‘ty, as there was a good turn-out. .
I think Rusk should encourage the interest students

have shown and offer more varied entertainment of this
kind in the near future. I propose that at their next cele-
bration they should begin with a period of socializing
and drinking upstairs, and then the girls should take

~ their partners down to the basement and actually satisfy
- their own needs and the needs of their partners. The

party should again be opened to the campus to enable
all those who do not have much opportunity for sexual

_ expression to come and experiment.

I for one;-am very excited by Rusk’s inititiative to
promote women’s interests at Davidson. Rusk must
feel they are acting in response to a demand for greater
sexual. freedom on campus. All women have strong

_ sexual desires that need to be fulfilled, but all too often

we women have to stifle these desires, and this can lead
to frustration.

Rusk seems to be confronting these issues head-on
and providing us all with a mature, honest and open
way to approach sex.

Honesty is the key point. In our fears and preoccupa-
tions with sex, we all too often lose sight of honesty.
Can we not be honest in expressing our desirés.and the
true-nature of our personalities? Rusk would be offer-
ing us a chance to proclaim our acceptance and our en-
joyment of sex by freely and unashamedly sharing our
bodies together in a group celebration. Let us no longer
be furtive, let us no longer lock ourselves away in bed-
rooms, but let us openly advocate this sexual behavior
and encourage everyone to share its benefits.

What a fine thing that the women of Rusk are eager

~ to learn about the female body. Now let us encourage
- them to learn about men’s enjoyment of the female
» body.

When Rusk arranges such a party, I hope that you

will: spend your time wisely and will come along to
aussi the Stand that Rusk takes.

Ant Goode

«alge : si # ASS yeaiemmee mart Hey

" DAVIDSONIAN / i Friday 29 January 1982
