‘ one reaped the rewaide,

Life in the Bag

“Young man, don’t you put the buttermilk in
that bag! I’m not as stong as you may think!”
Turning to the cashier, she added, “You have to
tell these bagboys everything.”

The sad truth is that her remarks represent
public attitudes toward baggers. Without these
additional instructions, they assume, we are

"helpless. We don’t think or understand. We

simply bag.

Grocery bagging introduced me to life. The su-
permarket isa microcosm of society. After all, ev-
erybody’s got to buy food. While for herself Mrs.
Schubert purchased only bare essentials, she
gave her five dogs, four cats, and two horses the
royal Purina treatment. Amy, a cashier, married
at seventeen and divorced at nineteen. The Wil-
sons bought up Winn-Dixie’s cheap cookies and
soda cans, only to resell them from their house to
children in the poor South Miami neighborhood.
And David worked for the Jamaican government
before it changed hands. Now he’sa Ab-year-tle
“bagboy.” So many lives surrounded me,,

My first supermarket job also helped me set |

some goals. I now know where I don’t want to

work.

In the supermarket hierarchy, the bagboy’ S po-
sition is the lowest. I hardly enjoyed having a
cashier two years my junior talk down to me, ev-
en if she did know how to scan.. When she em-
barrassed me with her orders to “Clean up on ai-
sle five!” over the loudspeaker, I wanted to ask
her what her favorite Dickens novel was. .

Under the circumstances, however, I had to
learn my place. I had to keep quiet and bag.

After several weeks; I considered myself the

_ finest bagger Winn-Dixie had ever seen. Every

one knows bread and. eggs get terribly sdangled
in the bottom of a bag, but I knew the secret of
plastic-bagging frozen chicken so that it
wouldn't leak and. ear, the sack..I squared the
i fit as 1 as serps Teven tried

Bagging taught ‘me ie about survival,”
too. Even though tipping h had eg zone tr
pel of disco and government benefits to |

Sith

| eck Pe ee ace sracedtoget
_.in their aisle. “Hey, pea ou
- bagger, “didn’ t the mana

@ most uncomfortable times fox me were -

| : Wehen ny miother carhe tide’ the shy Her stops _

12

for groceries 5 ot ke to interfere with the Mee.

ame igths’
day an} vas ceed baggi
looked up, only to see my motherstanding i
lane. It was too late, I was stuck. Winn-
‘reality were the same.

_. Soon Rosann finished scanning, I finished -bag-

ging, then I promised my mother that I would be .

- home by six, and she left. I-watched Rosann as

her eyes followed my mother, dressed in her,

_green Lacoste shirt and her Vanderbilt jeans, out

of the supermarket, until the sliding glass doors
shut behind her. -

“What does your father do?” Rosann asked -
me.

She had once said that some e day she would
leave that place and go to college. Maybe even
next year. Then she asked what I was going to
do. “I’m gonna quit and go to college,” I said, “in -
three weeks.” Maybe I shouldn’t have said it. It

didn’t feel right.

But I was soon appeased. I no longer resented
Jean, Maureen, and Rosann, the cashiers. In-
stead, we were friends, and I accepted my status.
But I had to accept it for only three weeks.

Thurston Hatcher 85

(Thurston won first place in the R. Windley Hall
Freshman Competition.)

