DRE Da

“Unbelievable” Number One

That’s the Way One Fan Put It After Two
Conference Wins Gave Davidson First Place

It’ s just about 3:00 on a Thursday afternoon, and
Johnston Gym is full of the noise of basketball. Basket-
balls which never seem to stop bouncing, vibrating
iron, an occasional “swish”. The. would-be All-Amer-
icans to lead some team to the Final Four who usually
dominate the court are.gone. In their stead are fifteen

hard-working college ‘students who won't be All-

Americans and will see the Final Four, with the rest of
us, on TV,

Jamie Hall shoots. All net.. Kenny Wilson puts a
ball up — it hangs on the rim indecisively but falls.
Someoné else shoots a cryer that won’t go. No, these
guys aren't All-Americans, but they're. making head-
lines in their own right.

First year Coach Bobby Hussey walks to center
court and blows a shrill whistle. The reaction is imme-

diate. The players turn: ‘and run to congregate as one_

around the coach. Practice begins.
Now there are: several key words there. First year
‘this is Coach Hussey’ § rookie season at Davidson.
Run : the team déesn’ ‘t saunter upon their own time as

in days past, they run. AS one : this isn’t a bunch of |

one-on-one showmen Cast: in ‘the mold of last year’ 8
squad. This isateam.

And this is the new look of Davidson basketball.

From the visible new logo to the not-so-visible new
attitude of its players, Davidson’s is. a program reborn.
It includes players diving across the floor for a loose
ball. It includes a team that feels it an awful lot more
when it loses than it did last year. And it includes a
team that enjoys‘Wwinning ;-as an-upset Applachian State
team found out the hard way.

The Wildcats, took the Mausoleum floor only to be :

greeted by a partisan Mountaineer crowd, but they re-

mained unshaken. The opening jump came Wildcat ~
way, and they opened up an early 6-2 lead on six Jamie

Hall points and a John Carroll assist. The Apps cashed
in on a couple of Davidson turnovers to spark a 10-2
spurt which.gave them a 12-8 lead after six minutes.

Davidson would have little of that, as they scored nine

unanswered points for a 17-12 lead at the midway point
of the half. .

Davidson gradually doubled thatlead by halftime
_ with help from both sides. The happy Appies couldn’t

keep their hands to themselves as. they piled foul onto
foul to give Davidson the one-and-one bonus surpris-
ingly early, and Davidson capitalized. Three ASU tur-
novers just before the half aided the cause. The Cats
were crashing the boards fairly well (especially Kenny

Wilson), and. were shooting fairly well. All that

amounted to a 31-21 halftime lead.

The Wildcats came out of the 2nd:half starting

blocks to play a shaky game, as several’ giveaways on
walks and fouls enabled Appalachian to cut the lead in

half. Hall came up with an intimidating block that left .

the visitors blowing several opportunities. -.

The Wildcats regained their first half intensity after
ten minutes of second half action, and it all:came to-
gether. Then it all came together for junior guard John

. Carroll. He made three All-American caliber passes in

a row that reinstated the Davidson momentum.

After a Jamie Hall tap, Kenny Wilson pulled out a
three point play off the fast break, and Davidson was
again up by nine, 58-49, with 4:29 left.

The mountaineers refused to roll over and play
dead, as Davidson couldn’t hold onto the ball. Star
ASU guard John Fitch gave the veterans a deja vu per-

_ formance of last year’s game in Boone (where he hit

the winning basket at the buzzer) that included a three
point field goal to cut the lead to 63-60.

“With 0:36 left Rich Wilson hit point number 64 for
Davidson on a free throw, and :15 later the Apps got an

_ easy bucket to cut the lead to 64-62. They called time
- out, but Davidson was able to dribble it out for the win. ’

Hussey was.elated. According to him, the game

- was “the best we’ve been for a forty minute period of —
time.” They had peaked for that moment, but they were

hardly there.
“We still aren *t there. We are a long way from be-
ing where we want to be.” Points to improve upon:
- ) team play -
2) team attitude
3) they [the team] can play hard, will play hard.
“Now our major goal is execution,” he continued.

Of particular note was John Carroll’s play. The
junior point guard’s 7 assist performance prompted:
Hussey to say, “John Carroll played his best game
since I’ve been here at Davidson.” ~

The win left the Cats 3-4 overall, but 2-0 and on top

of the Southern Conference. And that was quite unbe- —

lievable.

But that first. Conference win came in the First .

Union Holiday Classic.
Davidson faced the Citadel in the first round, Sad

| they handed the pesky Bulldogs 63-55 in the openér.

Kenny Wilson had a game high 14 points, but as
usual it was’a team effort. “We played as good game.
We played exceptionally well defensively,” Hussey
commented.

The Cats broke down alittle in the waning minutes,

but Hussey was pleased with, the overall perfotingiave a.

of his. team...
The Davidson win; , coupled with a UNCC win over
Holy Cross set up a final round showdown between the

cross-county rivals with the stakes none other than'the

Mausoleum itself. Whichever team won got its decal at’

center court and two four foot square braggin’ boxes. *

- Te put it simply, Davidson got’ behind early and

was never quite the same. Tacky was the watchword of
“the evening for. the Forty-niners from their coath’s
dress right on down to the game plan.

Niner Coach Mike Pratt wore a tacky suit, of pin-
stripe with polka dots in between and a polka dot tie,
and he brought that on the court with a spread offense at
the 11:27. point and a 17-10:‘lead. The Niners went on to -
take a 38-25 lead into. the locker room at the half..
_ Davidson came out destined to lose, but the team’s
chemistry changed. Cliff Tribus was moved to a wing,
and he promptly hit a pair of buckets. That didn’t halt

‘the UNCC team’s momentum any, as they ran off to a

seventeen point lead..
The Wildcats engineered a quiet comeback to slice

.the lead to 53-43; mainly on Tribus’ shooting clinic.

The Niners continued to be tacky as they went into a
full press with a twelve. point lead and 8:55 left. Three
minutes later the lead was down to seven despite the
UNCC defensive effort, but the Wildcats got no closer
for a 78-71 loss.

But Tribus found himself. He scored 24 points and
hauled in 13 rebounds, and that is important to Wildcat
hopes.

So, after two SC games, Davidson was definitely
an unbelievable number one, with a big upset of Appal-
achian State. But the meat of the schedule lay yet
ahead. -

" Photo courtesy Neil Cooksey

