Opinions

A Reply

to J ohn
Siman

Van Beck on Buckley

Perhaps William F. Buckley had John Siman in mind
when he said; “The irresponsibility of the ritualistic
liberals is about as newsworthy as the sunrise.” This
issue here of course is Mr: Siman’’s irresponsible at-
tack of Buckley who spoke in Love Auditorium on
Wednesday, April 21. Mr. Siman’s remarks shouldn’t
be dignified by a reply, but I couldn’t resist.

Mr. Siman’s piece, entitled “On Buckley’s Speech:
Ayvarice with a human face and a Brooks Brothers
Suit,” lays siege to William Buckley’s motivation and
integrity. He claims that Buckley’s libertarianism and
rhetorical prowess only serve to conceal an inherent
belief in the natural privileges of wealth. To quote Mr.
Siman, “The trouble with Bill Buckley’s libertarianism
is that he doesn’t believe it. Not deep down. What Bill
Buckley believes in au foud are the natural privileges
of wealth.” Mr. Siman also hangs a plutocratic label on
Buckley.

The problem here is that William F. Buckley is not a
20th century version of Edmund Burke and doesn’t ad-
vocate government by the wealthy. Mr. Siman had
clumsily drawn these conclusions from Buckley’s
speech at Davidson. Buckley didn’t address the natural
privileges of wealth or who should govern, but rather
discrimination against “wealthy” citizens and the di-
rection democratic government should take regarding
intervention. Edmund Burke’s writing contained a
strong element of inegalitarianism with reference to the
socio-political rights of the aristocracy—a tenet Mr.

Siman attributes to Buckley. Buckley assumed rather

an egalitarian position in criticizing the heavily prog-
ressive income tax. He contended that progressive tax-

ation is (1) unfair and discriminatory, ‘and (2) ineffi-
cient. I'll defer to Mr. Simon on the first point, due to
its abstract, open-ended nature, but cite Buckley on the
second.

William F. Buckley views. taxation in a typically
realistic, pease fashion. In'Four Reforms he calls

Cd

for marked tax reform to increse upward mobility for
all classes and maintains that the lower middle class
shoulders the heaviest burden of U.S. tax policy.
Buckley notes that the very rich have speciial privi-
leges, loopholes, while the very poor are strangled by
bureaucracy, inflation. He calls for adoption of the
Friedman Plan which would (1) eliminate all personal
deductions, (2) set a uniform tax rate around 20 percent
on all income, and (3) double the exemption rate in re-
cognition of inflation. Such reform would result in re-
venue equal to that produced by current tax policy. The
gist of Buckley’s proposed reform centers on his desire
for increased upward mobility for all classes and the
elimination of governmental tax restraint on.such mo-
bility.

Quite obviously, it is difficult to distinguish whether
Buckley’s conservative fiscal views were completely
ingrained before he attempted an intelligent defense of
such views or stances and vice versa. Or, stated a
slightly different way, are Buckley’s economic views

simply self-serving or does he truly believe in such me-.

thods in an intellectual sense? It seems that one could
respond either way after studying Buckley’s work. His
obvious preferences for free-market capitalism and
“trickle down” economics suggests the rather narrow
former approach whereas his discussion of evidence

regarding the tax burden in Four Reforms implies a

more ‘respectable intellectual approach and accep-
tance. The point is, one simply cannot say that Buckley
doesn’t sincerely believe his espoused libertarian con-
servative views on the basis of one speech and possibly
a few columns or issues of the the National Review.

Mr. Siman makes this mistake. I would consider his
rather simpleminded motivational analysis did he base
such dogmatism on Buckley’s work, which includes

_ “On The Right,” God And Man At Yale, McCarthy And
His Enemies, The Committee and Its Critics, The Je- -

weller’s Eye, The Governor Listeth, Inveighing We

Will Go, A Hymnal: The Controversial Arts, Up From
Liberalism, Rumbles Left And Right, Did You Ever See
A Dream Walking: American Conservative Thought In

‘The Twentieth Century, Four Reforms, three bestsell-

ing novels, “Firing Line,” his. New York City mayoral
candidacy, and the National Review. But to say Will-
iam F. Buckley is avaricious and doesn’t sincerely be-
lieve in libertarian conservatism on the basis of one

speech is preposterous!

Mr. Siman cannot intelligently refute Buckley’ s pro-
positions of April 21 and instead critiques Buckley by
referring to intent. Mr. Siman claims that Buckley is
guilty of bad intent, despite the fact that his actions
may be right. But intent, purpose, motivation etc: are
not easily pinpointed. Mr. Siman pinpoints Buckley’s
intent altogether too easily. How can one really decide
whether Buckley’s conservative views are solely reac-
tionary and simply ingrained or whether such views are
well-founded intellectual conclusions? Although the
answer probably lies with a reasonable median, one
could never be certain about such a balance nor could
Buckley extricate himself from this “ingrained, pre-

conceived notion versus solid intellectual justification”
dilemma. But, maybe this somewhat rhetorical dilem-
ma/debate is not of crucial importance when consider-
ing Buckley. Perhaps with William F. Buckley, the so-
called “Lion of Conservatism,” it may not be overly
significant or possible to understand exactly why he
believes as he does, but rather, simply that he does be-
lieve as he does with few doubts—which is exactly the ©
impression one gets from reading Buckley’s work and
examining his career, The what, as opposed to the
why, of Buckley’s conservatism is primary. Mr. Si-
man attempted to deal with the why of Buckley’s con-
servatism and he failed. Miserably I might add.

Van Beck ‘82

DAVIDGOMIAN / Friday 30 April 1982
