Reco rd Revi CWS_with Jon Glance.

Gary N uman I, Assassin

Kemember Gary Numan? You know, the mild-
mannered stranger who was thrust upon the American
consciousness with a paranoid pop ditty about the
value of cars (and how you can lock yourself inside to
escape from them). That’s right, he’s back. And while
the rest of electronic pop has followed in his footsteps,
he’s given them all the slip. Instead of the expected
synthesizer-washed mutant disco, Numan’s new al-
bum /, Assassin features some genuine funk, though of
a rather subtle and abstract strain. While the New Ro-
mantics who fipped him off have vanished jn a haze of
lace, leather atid greasy mascara (e.g., Visage, Japan)
ad nauseum),3aty Numan has progressed tq a truly in-
teresting style..“Rather than using the cheap straight

thythm of an. electronic ;drummer-in-a-box, this LP
builds a heady groove on the polyrhythmical drum: —

ming and percussion of an eclectic Afro-Cuban style
interlaid among the basic rock-steady foundation.
Numan’s new album presents a wider range of
musical textures than his previous works. While the
musical point of reference still is placed in the future, it
is not so much the bleak post-apocalypse humanless
milieu of the man who used to “pray to the aliens.” The
sinuous fretless bass and the Latin percussions give an
almost Caribbean tone to othe otherwise very urban
music. This is still recognizable as Numan’s music,
though—a cloud of synthesizers often hang above the
groove, echoing the detachment of Numan’s wonder-
fully expressive voice, which is, as usual, the focus of
the LP. Evoking at times a chanting muezzin, he treads

ERBITS
HELD VNDER
SUS Picion. AND E

h ''™ wor come
TO Give uP mY

"THE DAVIDSONIAN/29 October 1982

r

hy John | vdav

the fine line of sharps and flats as he throws off his so-
liptical verse (for example, “A history of nothing / Like
a seé-through song in disguise,” or “My picture of your
‘face’ / Will disappear with time / Patience in eyes / That
say occupied / Quite peculiar.”)

At its best, /, Assassin is catchy without being
mindless, subtly seductive without being boring. The
best songs on the LP are probably “White Boys and He-
roes,” “War Songs,” and “This Is My House.” Don’t
ask me what the songs are about, though. The lyric
sheet is intriguing, but hardly much help. I’m not fault-
ing the album for this, but merely warning the posten-
tial listeners who have to know what a song is about,
instead of appreciating the voice as another instrument.
The few songs which do fall flat are only to be faulted
for failing to catch a good groove. Examples are the
too-fast “We Take Mystery to Bed,” and the aberrant R
& B song “The 1930’s Rust.” In general, though, the

LP is a very solid, tastefully produced offering to the
market. Gary Numan once said something to the effect
that the problem with having a gold record was that so
many more people hate you who wouldn’t have heard
of you otherwise. Let’s hope that this new record
doesn’t precipitate a new backlash—Gary Numan de-
serves some respect.

ee

= END

THAT'S Att
THERE (iS TO (T.
BEST FRIEND OR
or, YOU'RE por

TALKING ME ovT
OF (T.

by
a SCOT MYERS

You FINISHED?
1! Dow'T WANT
TO TALK You oT
OF GoinG. Cvs
MA GoImG WITh
You, Pura |

AW OLD FRIEND OF MY
FATHER'S, ALEYNS

