Returnees

o~
Skip Brown, 6-11, 220

As Coach Hussey puts it, “Hé’s a great

team person. He’s provided very good

leadership for our underclassmen. Right

now his greatest contribution is going to

be as a team leader.”

That’s not all. Skip is one of the
most improved players on the court.
He’s shooting the jumper with far great-
er confidence and consistency and occa-
sionally uses a hook which not too many
people in the country could stop. He’s
crashing the offensive boards with a
vengeance, and thus has become David-
son’s-version of the Enforcer.

John Carroll, 6-2, 117
Once again John Carroll will be the
Wildcat fleor marshall, and you can
count on his steady, aggressive, hus-

tling style of play. “John probably came

back in better condition than anyone
else,” Hussey says. “He seemed to be
more into everything. He’s more hung-
ry to be a good player.”

Carroll has always been a fine play-
er, SO you can expect him to have an out-
standing senior season. He has led the
team in assists the last three years, and
you can count on number four. Right
now a back injury is slowing him down,

“but he’ll be full strength by season’s
Start.

Brian Rowan, 6-6, 200

Just call Brian Rowan “Sleeper.” If
he keeps playing the’ way he is now, he
is the most underrated player in the
Southern Coonference, and everyone’s
ready for a big surprise. Says Hussey,
“He’s playing extremely well at both
ends of the court. From all preseason in-
dications, he’s a step ahead of anyone
else at this point.”

Last year Rowan averaged only 6.8
points per game, but as he came into his
own at midseason he exploded to aver-

age 11 ppg down the stretch. This year -
he should score around 12-16 ppg.

_ Right now he’s. slated to. start at the
number five position, but as the season
goes on and the freshmen are able to fill

in there, be"ll play some at the four posi- |

tion.

Cliff Tribus, 6-10, 220

- Tribus, with 15.7 ppg and .530 field.

goal percentage, was All-Conference

and third team Academic All-American.
ee As a senior, he’s.much bet-
ter. “He’s gotten stronger and able todo.

a: few more things than he could last

year,” is the word from Coach Hussey."
And, as always, he can shoot. For that.
reason, they will use him both inside at

the 4-position and: occasionally out on
the wing at the:number three spot.

“Tribus, in the running for a Rhodes _
Scholarship, has at times been below

par. “He went through a period early in
the season,” Hussey explains, ‘when he
wasn't playing as.well as he thought he
should have been. He’s snapped out of
it.” Expect Tribus to lock in the sonar
andbeoven moreexciting shenhe hasin

the past.

14

Richard Wilson, 6-6, 205

“Richard has been a really pleasant
surprise ,” exclaims Coach Hussey. “He
might have played a little more basket- .
ball in the offseason than the year be-
fore.”

Defensively Wilson is already doing
a good job, as one might expect. It was
his steal in the waning seconds that pre-
served the 52-51 win over South Caroli-
na. So far he has been playing a lot of
point guard, but he can play the two-
guard position as well.

Tom Franz, 6-5, 170
No doubt about it, Tom Franz is playing
far better than ever. “He’s playing ex-
ceptionally well,” lauds Hussey. “He’s
got great court savvy and really knows
the game.

“AS a general rule, whichever team
he’s playing for is playing well.” Franz
has taken charge when things for his
shell team were falling apart, and has
become quite a traffic cop on the court.

Hard work over the summer is pay-
ing off for Franz, whose physical abili-
ties are finally catching up to where his
mental skills have long been. Franz will
see a lot of action at the 2-guard spot.

Kenny Wilson, 6-5, 215

Hold on folks, and enjoy the ride-
—“Cadillac” Wilson is back in full
stride!

KW fans can expect the same sort of
thrill-a-minute, rollicking, intense ac-
tion from Kenny Willson, but with one
hitch—he’s better. Coach Hussey ex-
plains, “He’s a little more under con-
trol. He’s learned a few more of the fin-

‘er points of the game.”
Wilson, with 14.4 ppg and about 5

rpg, earned Honorable Mention All- .

Conference honors last year as & sopho-
more. He earned a Conference-wide

reputation as a strong, hustling. player:
- who never quits. This year he’s a little
lighter and a little quicker, ‘which. |
prompts Hussey to say, “He's a physical :

specimen if there’s ever been one.”
He'll play the number three spot. =

Frank Johnson, 6-3, 172

” APfer sitting out for 2 year as a
transfer from Belmont Abbey, Daddy J. ~

is ready to leap into Division I:action.

He. is undoubtedly. a fine leaper and ~.
shooter, but he ‘has had to work on some’.
aspects of his. game as well: According .-
. to Hussey, “Frank has made a lot of im- .
_provement from last year ‘up to the.be-
_ ginning of this year; He's added weight’;

‘and matured: mentally..and ‘physically.

He really wants to play. If hecouldcon-
sistently. play with a lot of intensity, ©

he’d be-set.”

‘Johnson, a sophomore eligibility-
wise but an acadentic junior, is versatile
_ (thie will probably play two quad but can‘.
play the three spot), and has the longest . :

time playing under Coach Hussey. Cap-

tain Sky’s exceptional leaping ability
wil definitely render him. a zone. break- ;

er.

DAVIDSONIAN/ 1982-83

