To the Editor:

. Ivy. “Malicious” Goodman, Tom
“Perverted” Roth, and David “Emotion-
al” Teer have expressed to me their res-
entment in: being pronounced Commu-
nists by GDI. No sorority sibling of
ATO is a “commie” — with maybe the
exception of John Shaw. All sheep up-
hold the traditional American freedoms
of: speech; religion, assembly, and, of
course, a laissez faire economy.

Allow me to expound. The words ©

“Commons” closely resembles the
words “‘communism.” ATO, on the oth-
- er hand, is where “Americanism Takes
Over.” Ole Glory shades our threshold.

We worship cheesecake, train wreck,

and manhood. We even rent all-Amer-
ican “Red, White, and Blue“ brand beer
(not that imported green sutff!) In ac-
cord with America’s solitary stance
against WHO’s infant formula code, we

use Nestle’ products regardless of the

fact that they kill babies.

We at ATO advocate all American
activities such as flesh piles, back rubs,
and mass murder. We watch James
Bakker every day at noon yet, in prac-
ticing freedom of religion, we allow the
secular humanists in our house to watch
M*A*S*H at 5:30.

Economically, if America can remain
No. 1 with a deficit budget, so can
ATO.

One final comment reserved for
Thurston Hatcher ’85 who has “never
had any great yearning to see the faces
of the people who wash my dishes,
much less do it myself.” I suggest you
go home to your kitchen and meet your

mother sometime. I hear she’s a really’

nice person.

Signed;
Paul Q. Lazarro/ATO

Honor Council Forum

The Davidson Honor Council is
sponsoring an. Open Forum at. 10:00
a.m. on February 3 in the Chambers
Gallery. Central to the Forum will be a

' dramatization that will show how action |
is taken for alleged Honor:Code viola-

tions. This simulation will illustrate the
role of the Dean of Students Office, and
Student Solicitors, the Defense Advi-.

- Sors.and the Honor Council. Each step

of the process will be described and ex-
plained, from initiation of a complaint,
through investigation of charges, to the
procedure at an Honor Council hearing.
Following the simulation, all those in-.
volved with the process will be in the
Gallery to answer questions concerning.
the Honor Code, the Code of Responsi-
bility, and the Code of Disciplinary

Procedure.

The purpose of this hearing is to in-
crease student and faculty awareness
concerning the Honor Code and its op-

eration. The Honor Council decided.’

that a simulation would be the best way
to explain actions which must remain
confidential during a real hearing. One
of the greatest problems on this campus
concerning the function of the Honor
Code is a general lack of understanding
on the part of students and professors as
to how the system works. It is the hope
of the Council that this Forum will begin
to clear the air of the large number of
rumors and innuendoes, and will help to
make things run more smoothly and ef-
ficiently. The Honor Council as a whole
urges all members of the Davidson Col-
lege Community to be in the Gallery at
10:00 Wednesday for this meeting.

James W. Cheek "82

Continued from page - |
though it has little resale value.
Rusk President, Shannon Walters
said that “Rusk would end up being a lot

_Stronger.” She mentioned two factions
or types of girls who eat at Rusk are so

different that social fuctions have to be a

' comprosmise between the two factions,

leaving no one happy Walters said.
“The only way to please everyone,” she
maintained,“ is to separate the girls into
two eating houses, instead of simply

placing the girls on the waiting list into _

the new ‘house. »

Rusk has tried to accomodate its wait-
ing list by exchanging its round tables
for square ones and accepting 80 girls,
“which is too many to have a close
house,” Walters said. Parties are too

big, and the members don’t get to know -

everyone. The fact that 45 women are
still on the waiting list and three-fourths
of them pay $50 per term to be social

~ members attests to the high demand for

another all-women’s eating house, she

said.

“I could see where it could hurt some
of the coed eating houses,” she added.

F&M President Joni Seehorn, is a
member of the CCRLand Patterson
Court Council President. She is one of
the most outspoken opponents of the

proposal. “A house has to have between
50 and 60 people to operate, and 70 to
80 to get any economy at all,” she ex-
plained. It needs a waiting list to offset
the attrition rate, and “You need 80
members to keep costs low. I don’t see
any way to run a house uncer 50'without

* having costs soar,” she said. “I’m afraid

the Commons will have a significant
impact on membership. Putting another
house there is undercutting the present
system.”

She adds, “If present admissions poli-
cies remain and. they open another eat-
ing house of any kind, with a couple of
houses already in trouble, in a few years
one will go under,” leaving the court
with ten houses again.

Seehorn also objects to the idea of
“spending the money to equip one house
with kitchen facilities and then disman-
tling another kitchen and then disman-
tling another kitchen two to three years
later,” when one of the houses fails.

“Nobody knows what the demand
will be, and it doesn’t make any sense at
all to open up another eating house,” she
concluded.

By Pete Gulyn "83

or alt:
$04

4A-212\

Out ACA Occrenited camp geciaiging
UL wocter ports with added empnsic

On lod sports , iS looki
We ae of Doys and give (etween.
Ane 09%.0f 7 Ound to. Counsdovs

mud have the ability

ONE O MOE OF MEGS Activiti®

| >for more information write. CompThunterdid

") for polartial

to tenth in

elle ~)

~“DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 Jariuaty ‘1982

Peers}
