of young tharxist.rockers from Leeds .
is this EP, significant for its allusion

to the day. to day capitalism. of the -

bourgeoisie viciously satirized in the
five songs in this package. With such
titles as “To Hell With pores
- “Capital (It Fails. Us . Now),”” and

“History’s Bunk!” a world-view of...
desperation and isolation, economic

depression and ‘seedy futurism : is
matched with a big beat and slashing
dissonance. .

Side one of the EP includes rte

aforementioned three songs, all. stu-

GOLD)--these ‘songs are “Cheese-

burger” and “What We All Want.”

“To Hell With Poverty” and “Capital”: .
‘were originally released. on a disco

single, and their rock-steady funk ©
‘adds a note of humor and breathless —
urgency to the lyrics. The humor of

the second song comes out in the sin-
ger’s hysterical shrieking of “The mo-
ment I was born’ I opened my eyes/
reached out for my credit card/Oh no!
Tleft it in- my: other suit!” The parallel

bankruptcy of western civilization

the time.” Less: subtle is. the indict-

Record reviews with Jon Glance
ing of Four
rr st Day, Another: Dollar

The newest release by this quartet

_ we'll invent more junk.”

_ mindless pop fare. The angst of doom ce
and gloom bands such as KillingJoke
is leavened by a subtle (and indeed at

fi of ‘one man’s bankruptcy with the .
works well, with a list of luxury —
goods followed by the chant “Capital.
‘it fails us dow, Comrades let us seize *

tent in “History's Bunk!” which at- a

and darkly uiiclieias hc “pistory"s
‘bunk, I’ve got no past/In the future;

» The live - side ‘kicks off with
“Cheeseburger,” a frantic portrayal of
daily desperation “in the . working:
classes. Finally, “What We, All
Want” hypnotically deals with niod-
ern indecisiveness, with such lines as
“You. can’t help being hard up/Can’t»

.. trust the gods we trusted/Don't think

_ that’s any insurance,” and a chorus of .
“Could. 1: be happy with something:
-else/l need something to fill ay a

Bea

time.”
dio recordings, while the second side.
features live recordings of two songs —
from their last LP entitled SOLID

 Asisreadily apparent, the sail t
in these songs is not. your standard:

times a thickly veiled) sense of hum-

ae ig of Four has a’gift of be- A

criticize our society, and §
t, without making us defen-.

. band is not merely a forum.
ted politicians--the music
\is very accomplished. The
alternately screams... and”
out clusters of notes; while .
g underpinned by one of the
bass and drum combinations

a Four. .

“worth the low EP price. For the best a
head and feet music since MCS, Rie ae

« .
‘Tho Duvideonion ts published Fridays during the stho
yess by the shedents of Davidson College. Actdrens corre:
cpondsren to: Devidconten, Ben 210, Devideen, MBZIIT3.
tha tap flee? & Seer Meateet ion Seinen a
610 per yeor. Advertising rates are avaliable on

it rose cmt ee pte mot UPS 8 ;

Editor; Stewart Cauley. :
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editors: Jeffrey Mann, Elizabeth Smiley

Sports Editor: Steve Soud

International Editors: James Gelley,Dan Turk

Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams.

Calendar Editor: Susan Graves

- Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin

Layout: James Moore, Jeff Herrin, Liga Boardman-
James Rozzelle

Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud, Neil
Cooksey, Eric Long, Kelly Sandberg

Staff: Mark Sheffield, John Hartman, Lucy Everett,
Jeff Holland, John. Verdi, Anne Goodwin, John
Krotchko, John Lusk, Lisa Buckley, Ivy Goodman
Graphics: Susan Myers

Advertising Manager: Karis Hernstein

Old Hand: Killer

