Russ Warren begins painting in his studio early,
just as dark leaves the coldest winter days and waking
thoughts return to.mind. He brings with him: the
deepest images from still memorable dreams and tries
to picture the nightmares he doesn’t understand. He
tells stories with his paintings, stories of the disturbing
world of the self and all within; hence the titles are titles

of books (Triumph of Death, When Tempers Flare;

Zeke Attacking Velasquez, NO! Mr. Hyde, The Con-
formisty

The crude, anxious, sometimes confusing figures
are involved in the most basic human activities. His
characters are trapped in some. claustrophobic, less-
than-comfortable world where unexplained existence
is a horror story rather than. a lark. Starving dogs with
etections sniff bright red skulls in dark hallways.
Naked, expressionless men with black knives assault
other men and dogs. Black silhouettes cast long shad-
ows out of tiny doorways. Animals similar to but not
exactly like anything on earth tip off the edge of barren

purple planets. All this in an attempt to pin down man’ s
vague fears, desires, and nauseas with precision and a
twist of ironic-humor. .

The men in Warren’s paintings are archetypes of
the men that compose himself, and the dog represented
is always Zeke, Warren’s dog who died not long ago.
“All the men I paint are me,” he says. Although he’s at-

tained quite a bit of it lately, recognition is not the réa- -

son for Warren’s daily work and his turning out nearly
a painting per week. His purpose, he says, is that “If I
don’t, I forget who 1 am.” Jesse Murray, in'Arts maga-
zine, May, 1981, calls Warren’s work an “attempt at
private myth making.”

Warren was one of the few new artists included in .
the recent Whitney Biennial. Carrie Richey of Artfo- |:

rum magazine, April,- 1981, called the Whitney
“America’s Art equivalent to a trade fair,” named War-

ren “Most Promising/Not ‘Well Known,” out of the: 7

show of 115 artists, 65 of whontlive and work in N.Y.

“This years winner,” she continues, “is Russ Warren,
whose impassioned, cartoony allegories of Death and
Existentialism-Quixote-like stick figures that seem to
be teetering on the edge: of the abyss--make his work
look like the dark side of Louisa Chase.” Warren has
also been included in an Albright-Knox exhibition with
7 or 8 other figurative artists, and has had reviews. of
his work:in several major art periodicals and the Vil-
__ lage’Voice. Russ says he’s “been called False Image,
Falsé. Niavite, New Image, New Wave, and Neo-Ex-

ressionist,”.
ae, ow does ‘being. wold fom the New York art
Fg akon sa
tid ca s Bai mney ge

is, it woul be very Bad Tt depend, really. T've
fae coir udu coaisheacg Tyre

ton, slic Mee ie con ieee

: oe _——_DAVIDSONIAN /Piidly 16 January 1002 —
