B-ball Season Summary

From the

Locker Room

My story ends on an early March af-
ternoon. in Team Room C of the Cha-
rleston Civic Center. The University of

Tennessee at Chattanooga had just’

climbed the next rung on its postseason
ladder by stepping on and over David-
son.

The season was quite suddenly and
abruptly terminated, and for some, per-
haps whole careers had ended with the
blare of a buzzer and the blink of a 60
Watt red light.

Coach Hussey walked in and out and
someone handed him an ordinary ditto
with a jumble of names and numbers.
To his. trained eyes read into the
numbers. the story of a struggle. As he
walked by he mumbled something

about not breaking the press well. His —

was complete dedication to a team anda
season. The next press he’d see was not
tomorrow but next year. But all that’s
indicative. of an attitude that turned
around ‘a Titanic-style basketball pro-
gram.

I had to chuckle because he really didn’t
know completely what he was up

against at Davidson. (I guess that just .

goes to show Davidson’s intellectual
snobbery—we tend to forget not every-
one. taps into the inside gossip line at
Davidson.) But my chuckle didn’t last
long for two reasons. One was the sign’
on his wall—“Attitude determines alti-
tude.” The other came when I realized
his tremendous positive attitude was go-
ing to determine a startlingly high alti-
tude for Davidson basketball.

Well,’ sooner of later Bobby Hussey
learned all about Davidson. And soonet
than later he' took his team not to the
peaks of Mt. Everest but to the nearby
Appalachians, which’ was a> few
agined at the Sant? ike Nah Pen

Consider; 'for ible othe? (Gigrd?
dients with which 1 Bobby Hussey began.
His apparent ee was a guy who

When I-met Bobby Hussey a year ago, ‘

had a reputation as an unmined vein of
talent. He, Jamie Hall, had been fourth
leading scorer (10.2 ppg) the previous
year and yet was the top-scoring retur-
nee. Sure, Jamie was good, but few out-
side Jamie, Coach Hussey, and the rest
of the team thought the senior could car-
ry the team on his shoulders. Elsewhere
on the inside, Hussey had the “major
league shooter” who. didn’t, the one
who knew no limits of being intimidated
inside. Kenny Wilson had talent, but he
was untested. And the top three return-

ing guards averaged a total of about.

three points per game last season. The
rest of the squad looked like the rem-
nants of Valley Forge.

So, these things considered, the
Southern Conference coaches got to-
gether and figured on Davidson finish-
ing seventh. On paper, that made a

. whole lot of sense. But there isn’t an

NCAA stat sheet in the country that says
a word about coaching, team unity, the
determination to achieve a common
goal, and attitude.

The season started off as most people
expected. Twenty-nine turnovers to
lose to the Australian National Team. A
twenty-one point loss to N.C. State.

‘And worse was quickly coming to worst.

when tiny Erskine just plain outplayed

the rather timid Wildcats. At that point

in the season, who would have im-
agined Davidson would make the SC
tourney finals, let alone beat VMI?
Well, lo and behold, all the pieces start-
ed falling into place. Two, consecutive
wins over conferene foes Appalachian
State and The Citadel got the team roll-

"ing despite a 78-71 setback against

UNCC. Things Soured a little as ithe

Citadel eaked out a‘two point win in
Charleston, but the. Cats got it together
hundred miles further than Most im- ei : “,
ee vant though, t their irst round win.
eee ae reap eet take
“the shay “as. ‘William Mary. won. .

bi time to sink Duke at the buzzer, 75-

that, 46-44. "At that point the Cats. were

2-2 in games decided by three points or

less.

After that, games just went topsy
turvy. One day the Cats were playing
outstanding defense and blowing Fur-
man off ‘the court, the next day they
were missing a last second blockout to
give Marshall a garbage bucket at the
buzzer. After the Marshall game the
seam skidded into a four game losing
skein as Coach Hussey desperately
experimented with new lineups, always
looking for the on-the-court chemistry
that clicked. _

Again, lo and behold, he found it.
And the team stepped up a level. And
five consecutive wins stumbled forth,
four of which were on the road, and four
of which were decided by three points or
less. What had been a 3-3: record (add
WCU -54-51 win and Marshall 52-54

loss to previous 2-2 tally) inclose games |

suddenly jumped to 7-3.

The Cats had found themselves and
vaulted into third place. Of course there
were. a couple of setbacks down the
stretch—blowout losses at Western Ca-

rolina and Furman and the double over-”

time throw won. by the refs for UNCC.
But the Cats came into the tournament
ready to play and walloped an excellent
Paladin team and snuck past the never-
say-die Citadel before to falling to UT-
C: te : sd - m

a humbers man at all, but the stats, sheets

don’t ‘include leadership, either. And.”
‘Jamie filled a gaping hole there. And

But between joss number. | and loss: _
number. 15.a lot changed, Jamie wasn’t.

“Junior Cliff Tribus

Jamie came on strong in the tourna-
ment, where every game could have
been his last, to make the-All-Tourna-
ment team. Bobby Hussey called Tribus
the most improved October to March
player he’d ever seen. Cliff was All-
Conference. Kenny Wilson put paper
into action and played very well. Well
enough to earn AH-Conference Honora-
ble Mention, in fact. Brian Rowan,
while most people were trying to figure
out who he was, pulled another Jekyll &
Hyde transformation. By the end of the
season he was a commanding inside
player. Each and every player im-
proved.

_ Ask Coach Hussey how he did it, and
he’ll readily reply something like, “I
think that usually a:coach gets too much
credit for what his team does, whether
good.or bad.”. Well, Coach; with all due
respect that modesty’s great. But you
took a team of rag-tag no-can-dos and
turned them into—or allowed them to
turn into—a rag-tag team of dids.

In March Coach Hussey walked into

“Team Room C and it was pretty well

over. I walked up to him and uttered a
feeble: consolation.“ You know, Coach,
you were never supposed to be here.”
“That’s one way of looking at it,” he
said. “But the other way is once you get
here, you’ve got to do what it takes.”

Whatever it takes, well, Davidson quite
did it all this year. But more than likely

the Wildcats will be back next year.

No, the nee never really ends.

Steve Soud 34 ,

- DA\IRSOMIAN + Foitay HANEORRY AC
