Sports

(

Cats Tied Up

It was about 7:15 last Wednesday
night, and basketball team manager Bil-
ly Perry was running frantically around
the visiting team locker room of Varsity
Gym in Boone, looking for a piece of
chalk. He eventually found the coveted
stuff, and it’s a good thing he did. Be-
cause about two hours later, with :06 on
the clock and the game tied at 54, Coach
Hussey was using that very piece of
chalk to map out what would be the
game-winning play.

App. State guard John Fitch, who
killed the Cats last. year with a last se-
cond shot, had just knotted the game in a
Danny Ainge-style driving jumper that
sent the crowd bonkers. Davidson
called time out with six seconds left,
and as the team huddled together Hus-
sey picked up the piece of chalk.

The play he drew was relatively
simple. John Carroll would come off a
pick to receive: the inbounds pass, and
he would take it as far as he could, them
pass off to either Cliff Tribus or Kenny
Wilson. Tribus would be on the left
side, Wilson on thie right.

As Davidson took the floor again,
each player went just. where his corre-
sponding white line on the chalkboard
went. JC exploded off the pick, dribbled
the ball up the left side to not quite half-
court, and passed off to Tribus. Tribus
dribbled towards the basket, and with

two Apps on him and another arriving, —

he took the shot from the top left corner
of the lane. A fraction of a second later
Davidson had won, 56-54.

Back in the jubilant locker room,
Jamie Hall congratulated Tribus on the
shot, “I knew it was money as soon as
you went up.” Kenny Wilson agreed,
“There. was no doubt about it.”

It wasn’t Tribus’ first.time for last
second, game-winning heroics, either.
In the. Wildcats’ 75-73 upset win over
Duke, Tribus’ shot at the buzzer won
the game. Tribus, however, does these
things, and is at his best, when he plays
in a kind of semi-mechanical daze, an
other-worldly state of consciousness in
which he is 4 basketball machine and lit-

tle else. Such was his state when he took
the shot. “I didn’t think about it [the shot
and the pressure],” said the 6’10” jun-
ior.

Unlike the previous Duke game,
however, Tribus and the Cats weren’t
fighting back from a deficit, they were
fighting to keep a lead. Despite typical-
ly horrendous Southern Conference of-
ficial and not-so-typical sub-50% shoot-
ing by Davidson, the Wildcats went into
the locker room at halftime with a 31-25
lead to their credit.

The Cats came out of the locker
room not nearly as intense, and the
Mountaineers quickly launched a rally.
They scored 6 of the first 8 points to pull

to 31-33, but then Tribus got hot from”
the right baseline to keep Davidson in .

the game.

Eventually the Cats got their game
together, and with about five minutes
left Brian Rowan opened the lead to 47-
42, but the 5 point margin was short-
lived. Hall and Carroll were studies in
poise on the free throw line as they
canned one-and-one after one-and-one
to keep the lead at three points.

The Apps cut the lead to 51-50 with
0:28 left, but Hall was fouled in the lane

‘on the first shot. He took the line on the

other end of the court-six bounces and a
deep breath, and Davidson led 52-50.
ASU Coack Kevin Cantwell called time
out to make Jamie think about it, but
Jamie, absorbed in his ritual, disre-
garded the crowd and netted the free
throw.

With 0:18 left Rich Wilson fouled
Fitch, who was shooting, and the senior
made his two pressure-laden free throws
to cut the lead back to 53-52. Preston
Gant fouled Kenny Wilson on the in-
bounds, so with no time elapsed Kenny
took the line shooting two on the inten-
tional foul. KW hit the first but missed
the second, a chance to put the game on
ice. That set up Fitch’s tying basket.

Western Carolina
Monday night the second place

Mw

ry

we

Western Carolina Catamounts demol-
ished Davidson in a 90-69 embarass-
ment. Mentally the Wildcats were never
really in the game, although upon four
occasions if they’d gotten their heads in
the game they could have pulled it out.

_Western Carolina couldn’: seem to
miss in the early going, and they built up
an early lead. The WCV bench depth al-
so left Coach Steve Cottrell at liberty to
substitute extensively, whereas Hussey
was fettered in that respect.

A four minute Wildcat scoring
drought gave the hosts a 28-15 lead with
five minutes left in the first half, but Da-
vidson bounced back with eight unans-
wered to cut the lead to 28-23. Cottrell

ing, and WCU built the lead to 34-25 by
the half. ©
The Catamounts started the second

half with a roar as they continued to fill
it up from afar. The hapless Wildcats
couldn’t muster much on offense or de-

‘fense, so with 14:25 left Coach Hussey

called a timely time out with 2:59 show- |

called time out. Western had nearly
doubled its halftime lead, at 42-27.

Western outplayed Davidson in
nearly every catergory but class, and
Davidson didn’t help its cause, either.
“Every single time we ran the offense,
we scored,” Hussey said. A 42% field
goal percentage showed how often Da-
vidson ran the offense. Western shot
57%.

Overall it was ‘a game the Wildcats
would like to forget as they gear for the
Gamecocks of South Carolina tomor-
row night in Charlotte.

by Steve Soud

: . - ips ;

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982

21
