“ums and a lot of action, a lot of people coming in and .

out and that’s great if you need that kind of energy, but
I feel I do know what’s going on.in terms of what1.can

use, what’s important. Because when you live in the si-

tuation where you’re removed from ‘mainstream of
the art center, the information you; already be
filtered a little bit. You meet people that have thought

about it an awful lot and can distill the information. But
if you live in that center you get a lot of real useless
negative energy and information. There’s.a lot of jeal-'
ousy, and art’ 's one of the most competitive fields in the e
world. That’s the kind. of information I always. find -

when I’m in the center too long. I really like
away from ita bit... It (Davidson) is quiet. en
sometimes people from Rew York. want

York because they don’t’

own. If they’re isola ley gu
don’t worry about that... I always
plenty to paint.”

Weapon! $s Beginnings ’ ?

_“T came to art from‘a music background, and was a
musician, I went through a jazz phase, a rock and roll
phase, a folk phase, a. country phase, all the phases, I
started playing trumpet at 6, then later piano, guitar,

bass, I was real serious about it until I was about 19.

Then I started drawing and painting more and more.

The idea of being able to make something and exibit it,

so in a sense part of you is ina certain place but you per-

sonally don’t have to be there. That's what attracted me tea
to art from music. With music, you always had to be
there; 3 vase pore A tonal ties. I didn’t

front of people all the time.

pesca

i . It wast t to be from Texas, ‘Texas was real
hinay then, “Everybody was pretending they weren’t

. from. Texas. when. they. were living there, You know
how a lot.of Americans talk about Americans as if

they’re not Americans? It was the same thing in Texas
and Thad spentia long time, all that and found

{ : that that was ridiculous, that [really had to have that to

know who I was, so I started doing large paintings of
Texas imagery. Cows, cattle, sixguns, cocktail wai-
tresses in honky-tonks, funny Texas businessmen. |
sold a few, not too many. They were very sarcastic,
very absurd.”
Sculpture ? |

“The Beaumont Art Museum outside of Houston
had a grant to further investigate regional imagery, and
so they | looked at people that were interested in that and
I was... They. gave us (Warren and Earl Stagley) a
grant. They said they’d pay all our expenses, buy all

_ our materials, and we could have the whole museum

and we could just do anything we wanted with it. So we
had about 6 to 8 months to.do this.

~ “The fastest medium available is papier-mache, es-
pecially if you’re going work very large, and with
modern plastics and acrylics it’s very easy to make a
large papier-mache structure and coat it with plastic or
acrylic and have pretty durable sculptural piece. And
so I became interested in papier-mache and did a lot of
large sculpture, about 20 really big pieces and they.
were really funky, really strange. Well they weren’t

pernmanent, unfortunately, because the studio that I

had was a old building thats been condemned and torn ©
down since, but we couldn’t keep the roaches out of the
papier mache; even though we coated it with. plastic
they’d burn right through and they disintigrated.

I think there’s one somewhere in Austin, Texas. I
did a large cocktail waitress that was about 7 feet tall
and she was real funny...The Beaumont Art Museum
has one, a sculptural portrait of who was then Mayor of
Dalton, Briscoe. A funny little portrait: I made it out of
papier machef or the face and then I got one of those kid
cowboy hats and ther hay from a ranch to make his
body and then bluebonnet growing out of his head.”

Brian Butler ’84

