New Aid Cut Proposals

Congressmen and senators have
proposed a variety of alternative federal
student aid budgets in the last few
weeks, all of which are more generous
than President Ronald Reagan’s aid
proposals unveiled in early February.
Some officials. now predict the Reagan
proposals will be defeated.

Several committees have already
taken ‘some action, and though few
seem teady té express ther will before
April, more alterative aid budgets are
expected.

“Lordy, lordy,” jokes Jan Lilja, ed-
ucation analyst with the Senate Budget
Committee, “there'll probably by a lot
more alternatives. (Proposing aid
budgets) seems to be the latest fad in
town.” -

“There are sevén newones every,

day,” deadpans a Democratic Senate
budget analyst.

‘In the Senate, the analyst expects
the flow of alternative proposals to slow
as soon as““the Republican leadership
comes. close toa consensus.” He ex-
pects that to happen by April, and has

“reason to think they'll reject the presi-

4

dent’s proposal.”
In the House, the Education-Labor
Cimmittee has already approved a stu-

dent aid budget that increases funding -

for all the major programs, including
the two President Reagan wants to abol-
ish altogether.

The committee, however, tradition-
aly is more liberal in its funding than the
Ways and Means Committee, which
will weigh the proposals before passing
them on to the full House for a vote.

The House recommendations are
just one of five 1983 fiscal year budgets
now before Congress.

Besides President Reagan’s budget,
which proposes to end various aid pro-
grams, dramatically limit eligibility for
others, and cut funding for the remain-

ing ones.by as much as 20 percent, Con-

gress will soon debate aid proposals
from the House education-Labor Com-
mitee, from Sen. Pete Domenici (R-
N.M.), Sen. Ernest Hollings (D-S.C.),
and one writen by senators Claiborne
Pell (D-R.I.) and Robert Stafford (R-
V.T.)..

The Domenici budget:would freeze

aid programs at 1982 levels.

Otherwise, it differs most from the
proposals in its vision of the Guaranteed
Student Loan (GSL) program;

Domenici would make families with
incomes over $40,000 a year ineligible
for GSLs, and require families with
gross incomes between $25,000 —
$40,000 to demonstrate need. President
Reagan would require all families with
incomes over $14,000 to show need.

Domenici would also keep the in-
school interest subsidy the president
wants to abolish, but would require stu-
dents to pay it back to the government
after leaving school.

All the alternative budgets, as op-
posed to the Reagan proposal, would in-
clude grad students in the GSL pro-
gram.

The Hollings budget, according to a
Hollings aide, would “continue current
funding levels. Period. No changes in
the program at all, except to allow for
inflation.” -

Hollings would allow a 7.4 percent

j increase in spending for Pell’ Grants,

Supplemental Education Opportunity
Grants (SEOGs), College Work-Study,
State Student Incentive Grants (SSIGs),
and National Direct Student Loans
(NDSLs).

The Pell-Stafford proposal asks for
$7.9 billion for student aid in 1983,
compared to the $4.28 billion President
Reagan wants to spend.

The government is authorized to
spend some $5.9 billion in the 1982 fis-
cal year which stretches from Oct. |,
1981 through September 30, 1982.

Sen. Stafford himself-figures Con-
gress will ultimately decide to fund the
programs for 1983 at about the same
level as 1982. “The majority view in the
Senate as I left D. C.,” Stafford said at
the. American Association: of School
Administrators in New Orleans in Early
March, “was that domestic programs
cut heavily: in fiscal 1982 ought to be
level-funded through fiscal 1983.”

The student aid budget in fiscal
1981 was $6.38 billion.

David Resnik and CPS

Careers Office Lacking Funds, Staff

“i

A recent survey ‘of college place-
ment progfams confirmed widespread
claims that the Davidson Careers Office
is underbudgeted and understaffed. “In
comparison to other institutions, we are
definitely underfunded and. under-

staffed,” said Career Office Director

Ken Woods,

According to the survey, David-
son’s Career Office receives less fund-
ing than placement programs at colleges
of similar size,. The operating budget of
Hamiton College’s placement program

is $18,000 dollars a year, Carleton’s is |

$13, 0003 ‘Golby’ sis. $20,000, Will-

iams’s is $20,000, and Davidion'6i isa

mere $4,800 a year. :
The’ survey also’ showset that Will-

iams’s placement program has five staff...

members, Carleton has three, Hamilton

has two-and-a-half, Colby has. one, hs

Mes raves Ste

re

worried about my prospects of finding a
jogb at Davidson. Anything the SGA
can do would be fantastic.’”
Both Johnston and Woods blame the
increasing demand for job placement on
the economic difficulties that students
face today. Students who can’t afford
graduate school are looking for work in-
stead, and even some of those who.can

afford it. are looking for immediate

financial security.
Johnston feels that career placement

will be “one of the SGA’s major issues .

next year in terms of priority.” He
‘would like to see an additional staff

member at the Careers’ Office. Who is: .

“geared toward Telations. with students
and corporate’ representatives. and who
can devote time to maintaining interest
in the job placement program.” ;
Mei on ‘Relation

Davidson has only one staff member.
Mr. Woods said he would recom-
mend an increase in the Career Office’ s
budget and staff as long.as it did not re-
sult in “an unrealistic heightening of ex-
pectations as far‘as job placement.”
According to Mr. Woods, the de-
mand for career placement is rising at

‘Davidson College. In 1974, 25:% of Da-

vidson’ students pursued employment

after graduation. Mr. Woods estimates
that 40 to 45% of this year’s seniors will

choose career placement ovet r graduate
school.

Newly elected SGA President Tim
Johnston also feels that the demand for
career placement is rising on campus. “I
brought the issue (career placement): up
when T was. campaigning,” said John-
ston, “and the reaction was always the

: Same. People would say, ‘I am’ roe

Chairman Stuart Dorsett also advocates
creating a new position at the Careers
Office. “I think we need one person
who’s sole concern is corporate recruit-
ment,” said Dorsett, “Ken [Wood] is
really swamped; I think he’s doing the
best job he can, but he doesn’t have the
corporate temperament.”
According toMr. Woods, Corporate
recruitment is important, but it is not the
only function of the Careers Office. He
tties to help students as much as possi-
ble but thinks it is “up tp you' to’ go out

‘there and find ‘your own “job.” Mr.

Woods Cites ‘career exploration '(i'é!,
extern programs, field surveys,’and life

_/ work plannning) and experimental

learning (intémships) as two other basic
supportive services of Davidson’s
placement program. —

David Resnik, ’85

"DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982
