When the Davidson College Wind and Jazz Ensem-
bles departed for their annual spring tour the Saturday
after final exams, 4 inches of snow and a nearly desert-
ed campus saw them off to sunny Florida for a busy 7-

day tour which included 9 performances and the pros-°

pect of some hurried basking in the super tropical pe-
ninsula. Arranged and directed by Dr. William Law-
ing, the tour was a favorable combination of perfor-
mance and pleasure.

Florida was at first not as sunny and warm as the
postcards sent home boasted, but the Jazz Ensemble’s
scorching renditions of Big Band favorites and the
Wind Ensemble’s cool and composed performances of
excellent wind pieces must have brightened the specta-
tor’s days at performance stops all over Florida, in-
cluding Disney World in Orlando. A considerable
number of Davidson students attended the performan-
ces (an estimated 5O or more groupies made it to the
Disney gig).

Despite the hectic schedule, the group managed to
find some free time each day along the 2,200 mile
way, touring the Kennedy Space Center and soaking
up rays from Jacksonville to Orlando. Spending a lot of
time aboard the bus, the performers entertained them-
selves with continuous bridge games, video toys,
Walkmen, trashy novels, and of course zzzzs. Most

noteworthy of the various forms of entertainment,
however, were the traditional saga-journals which dis-
closed the choicest bits of fictional gossip-dirt and the
47 personalized limericks about each performer (most
of which are unforturnately unpublishable). Of course
there were the perrenial romances and feigned flings
which life on the road seems to encourage. All in-
volved shall remain nameless; you know who you are!
The most fun, however, was had off the bus. Johnny
Leazer and Mike Cooper share icy remembrances of
the dunkings they both experienced. The “beach bun-
nies” and Dave Lawing T-shirts which they

will probably never wear again, but which will bring a .

chuckle or two out of the bottom drawer of fond remin-
iscences of the tour. Dan Metzel’s daring method of
feeding the gulls (lying flat with loads of bread spread
out on his stomach) impressed even those who had nev-
er seen the movie The Birds. Two nights were spent at

hotels instead of chez host families. At the St. Peters-

burg stop the “John Hoots Bachelor Party Band” took
advantage of the lounge by relieving the regular band
and actually playing a gig. John Lowry’s flying mon-
key and the juggling antics of the trumpet section be-
came regular performance stunts. A few not-so-regular
stunts, such as Kelly Moore’s show-stopping music-
dropping and the open-door breeze’s displacement of

the Flute Ensemble’s piece, served to break up the tax-

ing and repetitive job of performing so much. The
groups maintained a professional air and sound, proba-
bly because of all the fun ‘they had off-stage.

The final performance in Atlanta was considered by
many members to be the best, although Lawing says
the Sunday night performance at Ormond Beach was
very professional. Actually the tour was.
with the performance in Hodson Hall March 11. The
audience response was quite appreciative, and the
meinbers of the ensembles felt especially gratified that
the home crowd approved so heartily of all the hard
work they put into their music. The selections were al-
most identical to the tour program and.showed a great
diversity and virtuousity. Dr. Lawing considered this
year’s tour, the fifth so far, a success. The member's
stories certainly affirm that acclamation, ‘as does their
music. Lawing was especially complimentary of the
manner in which the bands represented the school.
Their friendliness and openness made lasting impres-
sions everywhere they visited, including their wrap-up

performance on campus.

Andy Wilson, °84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982

3
