Cluttered-my mind, my thoughts, my work, my life.
Thinking of things I must do, commitments I must make. I
tramp through the wet grass to the family of trees where I
will set up camp. Davidson still invades me as my mind
begins to organize my adventure into neat little segments of
time, each with a certain purpose. Dusk has come and gone,
and: ee vod have already tucked themselves in for the

ht yellow misty air envelopes me as I lay down my
2e) ine g bee and blankets. I. pull the tent: over me,

h blue gciem Finally I am still. Suddenly, I hear the
boos J laugh aloud disturbing the womb I have created,
pping the web around me.

‘ould « “and laugh to the extremes, and try to take
manity up and dash it to the ground with such force that
glass slashes into the flesh of the earth, bleeding from deep
rivers of red and heat. My fingers dig deeper into the dirt and
the shadows move more quickly. Sometimes my feelings are
ite ov tremendous energy surges “within 1 me and

ough | zal ves 6 alive, sparkling as they fall into my hair,
ussing My nization into lovely..-disorder and,
suddenly,{ feel free- from everything- clear, natural, and
vibrant. My being bursts and I cackle aloud, sending waves
of f giddiness from my fingertips. I run through the sprinkling
rain and let it pour into me and refresh and cleanse my
crowded palate. I relax and find peace within myself. I strip
of -my wet clothes and nestle myself into the old family
ping bag, comforting i in its familiar, safe smell.

‘Tfeel the excess of my life begin to fade. Has it-been so
Long” since I came: to. rest? Have I-kept my Imagination
secretly locked. into a stone cell? How easy to forget that it
also needs nurturing with walks through the soul and.over
the‘hills, rising to meet... I see myself on the other side
waving gaily to greet me. I realize my inner core has been
disrupted and scarred as I have given and:spread myself so.
far. Where have my music and my ‘painting flown to that I
hardly remember their names? Have:I not even received a.

letter from them? No,.-because I have not written nor.

- play on the shores of Bab lon and fish in a sea of gold while -

challenges, ' the excitement; the: eneacadon with others - -

returned their calls. I feel the urge to crush my engagements
and withdraw myself from the world around me. I will go

my self is fed and watered by the air! greedily stick i in to keep,
me alive.
But I will not abandon: siiese thing s. 1 ‘stillwant the

from'which I receive so much satisfaction. I want.to know-
what people think, why they think, how they think- so that I

- may enrich my own life with their senses. Their questions

_ people are human being

ia

spur me to ask my own, to develop my being as something
unique and beautiful in itself.

One must find a balance in life, an equilibrium from
which all aspects:can breathe. Do not become so weighed
down that you forget to swim and sink heavily to the
bottom. Instead of reaching for everyone, reach for a few. All.
ings. Just reach out and touch them.
Come alive and they will Be resurrected. But you must raise
yourself first. Develop your inner core and > yourself of
_ TY: distractions and empty feats. Then can you find ©

ce and security within yourselt 6 as bes world rushes

quickly around you.

. ete of intense emotion crosses over me. I am so fully

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 ‘April 1982

Slowly, luxuriously, I open one eye, and peek out from
my blankets. Mist lolls around between the grass and trees

providing an. earthy contrast between its grey-white mantle
and the green and brown colors encircling me. I inhale

deeply as I push the sleep from my. eyes and body, I am

struck by the freshness of the cool dew around me.

_ Everything

~~ nd me has awakened and moves with the
arrival of the Dawn. .

Irise and go walking, thinking of nothing. I takethis time
as my own. One moment, as long as it is mine. Let me give
and take willingly and you will have given me freedom and
spirit, and I will be happier and more alive. You would be
surprised to see the sparkle in my eyes>

Being alive. Trying to use e oment fully, so that I

t not waste the most precious thing I have. Working to
live in everything, even when people oppress you with their
help and good will, taking your life and\molding it with their
practised hands, leaving you no room to’bend. Knock them
down gently and tiptoe past them in the night, and run
swiftly to your own wheel where you may shape your own
clay. Glaze and fire it with care for you only have one block of
clay, and itis very costly to start anew. But allow yourself the
fun of experiment and slash your clay with your own colors.
Your result is unique, let it glow with its‘own fire. Don’t steal
someone else’s, for it will quickly die away from its. home.

_Trun through the woods finding sticks to burni in my own

_ fire. I hear my past beckon me back.I sweep up my nest and

adjust it under my arm. Slowly I wade through the grass
whispering a soft goodbye. I find the key to my daily life and
unlock the door. Tentatively the clutter feels its way out. It
looks at me hesitantly and tries to come near me. I allow it to
touch me but the music of the trees still sounds. I smile and
slip back into this life knowing that my painting and music
are now within reach.

Carole Jolly '84

Fragments

Shattered window

You could be

Anybody’s aching soul.
Radiating fragments

From a center-point

(A. sunny spiderweb)
Shards hanging on together
Asone whole»

Yet each.remains alone .
Catching sunlight
Gathering dust

Reflecting dreams

Of.some who glance your way.

Constance Mele

