Russian Comedy for Davidson _

The Suicide continues this weekend

By TOM PAFFORD ’83

Semyon Podsekalnikove, unemployed and misera-
ble because he cannot provide for his household,
could rise above his conrades and shake his fist at
the powers responsible for their miseries if only he
would commit suicide. He doesn’t do it. Semyon,
played by John Marks, is the main character in late
Russian playwright Nickolai Erdman’s play, The
Suicide, which opened last weekend in Hodson Hall.
The play was written in the early 1920s and is set in that
period, more than a decade after the October Revolu-
tion and the establishment of the Soviet Union. In the
’ begining of the polay Semyon feels like he has lost face
because his wife is supporting the family until he can
find work. Maria, his wife, fears that he will hurt him-
self and she enlists the help of Comrade Kalabushkin
(Matthew Merrell) to diffuse her husband’s irascibili-
ty. Kalabushkin stresses to Semyon that life is beauti-
ful, but by the end of their conversation, Kalabushkin
implants the idea of suicide in Semyon’s mind. Kala-
bushkin spreads rumors, and Semyon, not yet resolute
about taking his own life, is beseiged by people who
want him to commit suicide as a gesture for their cause.
A banquet is planned for the next morning to honor Se-
myon’s suicide at twelve noon, but although he intends
to kill himself, Semyon ends upo dead drunk instead of
dead. However, he feigns death, and in the last two
acts of the play the spokesmen for the intellectuals, the
lovers, the artsis, butchers and whatnot haggle like vul-
tures over who wil gt credit for Podsekalnikov’s sui-
cide. In the end, Semyon crawls out of his coffin and
addresses the crowd, pleading for his own life and be-
seeching his comrades to “allow us at least to whisper,
‘Life is hard.””

” The Suicide is billed as a comedy, but it is prim-
arily what we see on stage that carries the humor; I
found that the script by itself raises darker questions.

Why does Semyon consider killing himself? Is it true,

as Aristarch the intellectual says that “Nowadays . . .
only the dead may say what the living think”? Al-
though Semyon eventually opts for life, that doesn’t

disprove Aristarch. Semyon may just be faint hearted.
A general question pervades the play of who is truly a
strong person. Erdman wrote humorously about a his-
torical situation in which it was hard to “say” anything,
even harder just to live, but it was necessary to do both.

The case must convey both the humor and the se-
riousness of the play. Overall, they do a very good job
of maintaining the energy and the continuity of the sto-
ry line. However, some of the subtleties of humor are
lost by the timing especially in the confusion of the
banquet scene.It seems like the seriousness at the be-
ginning of the play is lost amidst the humor, but this is
largely the nature of the script. I think that the sobering
final scene of the play is enhanced by the comedy be-

cause the characters are still fresh at the end and the
play has not gotten maudlin. John Marks gives an ener-
getic performance, enhancing the humor and the pa-
thos of Podsekalnikov. Solid supporting roles are giv-
en by Aristarch Golashchapov, the intellectual played
by David Barber, and by Raissa Filipovna, the lover
portrayed by Roxanne Beckford.

I commend Eric Fichtner and Rupert Barber for design-
ing a set that is elegant and which functions well on the
small stage in Hodson Hall.

The Suicide is among the best major theatre produc-
tions I have seen at Davidson. The performance I saw
was not astounding, but the acting is encouraging and
the script very strong. I suggest you see it.

by Pat Donely "84

