Dr. Williamson to Study
the Aging Process

Receives Grant From the

Research Corporation of N.Y.C. | _

“It’s widely believed that aging isa genetically deter-
mined biological process, but it’s never been proven,”
says Dr. John H. Williamson. And the Research Cor-
poration of New York City has given him a $10,000
grant to try to prove it.

Williamson, chairman of Davidson’s biology de-
partment, says that there are two theories pertaining to
the aging process. The first: theory suggests that aging
is simply the result of “biological insults”—wear and
tear on the body in everyday life resulting from such
things as overexertion: or from getting too much sun
(“Sure it looks nice now,” he says, “but you pay the
price later”). The other more favored genetic theory is
that aging is a developmental process or inherited trait.

Williamson believes that the evidence that people are
born with the aging process built into our chromo-
somes is much stronger. The genetic concept has only
become.clearer over more recent generations: the aging
genes were not expressed for a long period of time be-
cause people had shorter life spans, but the last genera-
tions have had a chance to express them.

system in which we have a lot of genetic control.” The
obvious example of this, he says, is the Drosophila.
With the Drosophila, he will find long—living and

short—living strains, and then he will observe the -

development profile of NADP enzymes in each.

The main question Williamson asks, therefore, is
“Does aging express itself biochemically?”

With his grant from the Research Corporation’s Cot-
trell College Science Program fund, Williamson has
puchased equipment and hired a student to assist him.
The money will also go to breed thousands of the Doso-
phila.

Williamson is finishing his first year at Davidson. He
graduated from N.C. State in 1960 and received his
master’s degree from Cornell. He taught at the Univer-
sity of Calgary in Canada for twelve years before com-
ing to Davidson.

An important aspect of the grant is that it includes a
stipend for a stuudent research position. “I want to
have students,” says Williamson. “I think it’s impor-
tant. A goal of the department i is to invovle students in

Dr. Williamson

Williamson neither expects nor intends for his pro-
ject to have a profound effect on our knowledge of the
aging process and what we can do to alter it or to slow it
down. “We know so little about aging,” he says. “We
need to accumulate a bank of knowledge about what
the aging process really is.”

“What I want,” says Williamson, “is to use a model _ the research programs.’ Thurston Hatcher
Continued from page 9 A: I think you really have to do both. It is unfortu- “A ettar Werte Buy Books”
nate, but the weight of the statistical evidence from a The aig ag

however, that abortion has been available traditionally
to those who can afford it in the private market; that a
woman of means could shop around for a doctor with a
fully equipped clinic where this operation could be per-
formed in relative safety, while a woman of limited
means, in the past, had to resort to coat hangers and
chemicals and all sorts of things generally proven dan-
gerous. So, I’m supporting the notion that a woman has
a right to decide what her issue shall be.

Q:Would you go so far as to say that if a poor
woman desires an abortion, assuming she has a
right to it, that it is the corresponding duty of our go-
vernment to pay for it if shie can’t?

A: Yes, with this qualification—I believe we are in
an era of limits, and that limits must be placed on a
variety of things that, I think are socialy desirable;

abortion may be one of those things. But were we, hy-.

pothetically, in an era of no ’ limits—absolutely——J be-
lieve the government should guarantee that right.

Q: In Georgia, you have been instrumental in
having the legal drinking age re-elevated to twenty-
one, though you were initially instrumental in hav-
ing it lowered to eighteen.‘What do you think of al-
ternatives to this move, such as making the penal-
ties stiffer for driving under the influence?

variety of sources shows that younger people, aged fif-
teen to nineteen, just aren’t able to mix alcohol and
driving. The accident rate among them is greatly out of
proportion to their number in the driving population.
Their access to alcohol has got to be as restricted as so-
ciety can possibly make it. Part of the problem one
wants to solve with this type of legislation is not only
the denial of alcohol to those eighteen to twenty, but al-
so to those younger. Common experience is that the fif-
teen year old gets the eighteen year old to buy it for
him, the sixteen year old gets the nineteen year old to
buy it for him, and soon. And while it has traditionally
been illegal for those under sixteen to consume alco-
hol, it has been easier for them to get it when their im-
mediate older peers have access to it.

Q: Don’t you think, though, that it is a bit unfair |
that the people whom the legislature effects have the’

least amount of power to act against it?

A: They have just as much power as I do. I’m forty-
one,. they’re eighteen; I can vote, they can vote. The
fact is, they don’t exercise their right to vote as often.

Sherman Allen ‘82 and Janet Stovall ‘85

expanded. the ‘et
traditional book club into a
goneietely new and unique:

| SAVE 20-40%

ON. ANY BOOK IN PREG

Save up to 80%

on selected
@ NO GIMMICKS
e NO HIDDEN CHARGES
e AND NO HARD SELL
ust low, low prices every day
f the year; unlimited
choice of books;
ind fast, efficient, personar.
ervice on every |

ACADEMIC BOOK cus

‘Vincent, New York 13618-0300

ont ng Be cx

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1962
