withered old men provide company for enjoyable evening

Booze Brothers Get Culture

Again!!? Sure! We do anything for
kicks. And so with two tickets to ride, a
pack of smokes and brews for a boost,
we bolt. After cruising down I—77 at
criminal velocity, we arrive, wearing
matching double—breasted blue blaz-
ers with Davidson College pocket insig-
nias and sporting mirror shades (for that
blend—in effect), at Ovens Auditorium
to catch the Charlotte Symphony. __

Ovens is a nice joint, carpet on the
walls and all, so we used plastic cups to
spit dip into, and we strongly suggest
you do the same. The people really
seemed to appreciate it. Ah yes, the pea-
ple: A bopping throng of shriveling old
men and women dressed for winter fun-
erals. Also present were a mild variety
of “men together often” touting very-
—trimmed beards and narrow
shoulders. When the lights finally went
down, as shades of gray (suits) dimmed
to black, as subtle rasp remained of ag-
ing men having trouble breathing.

What a show! The music was pure; no
amplification, no distortion pedals. In-
deed, the Ovens Auditorium acoustics
enabled us to feel the music as it
grooved in and around us. This sensa-
tion was a novelty; however, even more
impressive was the actual performance

Semesters

continued from page 1

The Committee will look at ten oth-
er schools that have recently adopted the
credit-hours system along with a semes-
ter schedule. Once “they know enough
about it [credit hours],” says Johnston,
the SGA wil conduct informal polls and
hold open meetings.

If the Credit-Hours Study Commit-
tee “comes to a conclusion,” says John-
ston, “then we [the SGA] will write up a
proposal” and submit to the EPC.

Johnston also feels that the student
referendum had little effect upon the
faculty’s decision, adding that “most of
them [the faculty] had their minds made
up” already.

Johnston says that the SGA referen-
dum showed the faculty that 77 percent
of the students disapproved of the origi-
nal semester proposal, but that - it
claimed nothing about the amended ver-
sion. He feels that the faculty could

have made a fairer decision if they had

received more input from students.

Johnston believes that the best way
for students to influence important deci-
sions is “to talk to the professors, con-
tact the SGA, or write to the trustees.”

President Spencer appointed the
SPC last May to study the adoption of a
semester system after ‘a poll conducted
by Dr. Richard Bernard found that a ma-
jority of the faculty would like to exam-
ine the issue.

of the musicians——the art of sym-
phony. It is an act of about fifty folks
playing their part of a very big produc-
tion. Each musician puts on a separate
show...watch ’em wiggle, watch ’em
move. The double bass player sways in
a transcendental rhythm while his left
hand applies an exotic massage to the
fret board. To the back of the stage the
percussion unit mingles amongst all the
toys; blocks, clappers, cymbals, and the
ever so powerful tympani and gongs.
These guys have a lot of fun. In con-
trast, the string players are a serious lot:
women in solid black and men with
good posture. The guy up front is the
conductor, the make—it—happen man,
the interpreter. This dude has got the
tunes at his feet, and he responds to to
the musicians’ attentiveness with some

thythmical choreography, breezing
vibes, and lightning crashes. If you can
visualixe this, he is like a madman
dodging nonexistent bats. Got it? Good
deal! As a result of the whole produc-
tion, we were lifted away into fantasia-
—like fantasies.

When the show ended (with a bang,
believe it!) the crowd rose to their feet
and began to applaud, to show their ap-
preciation for what was truly a cleans-
ing, enjoyable, aurally stimulating ex-
perience. The guest soloist came back
for about two curtain calls——we
thought that was plenty. However,
some guy in front of us didn’t share our
opinion. He simply wouldn’t stop slap-
ping his flippers together. We were
waiting for his hands to start spewing
blood all about; instead, ther crowd be-

gan clapping again, and Miss Solo came
out again to receive her rosy reward.

So why not give it a shot.... The Sym-
phony! Be aware that the tickets are ex-
pensive ($12.50 for mezzanine seat-
ing). YOu can expect to hear two one-
—hour sets with a fifteen minute half-
—time. All Charlotte Symphony con-
certs are held in Ovens Auditorium (lo-
cated on Independence Blvd next to the
Charlotte Coliseum, with free parking
across the street at IHOP.)

An evening with the symphony: satis-
fying for those of you interested in
classical music, informative for those of
you who are musicians, and bloody hi-
larious for those of you who enjoy get-
ting drunk and laughing at people.

Semesters Yield Fewer Pressures For Athletes

By PEGGY PIEROTTI ’85

The Athletic Department forsees
many positive and negative changes in
its intercollegiate sports programs due
to the change to semesters. .

According to Ed Farrell, Director of
Athletics, the switch to semesters is a
“mixed bag,” and he plans on both good
and bad results from the change.

The most important advantages of the
schedule change will occur in the fall,
accordin? to Farrell. The school’s earli-
er starting date will give the athletes
more time to practice without incurring
the expenses of having them on campus
early.

Furthermore, under the present sys-
tem, fall term exams place a lot of pres-
sure on athletes who are trying to finish
their sports seasons. Football players,
for example, have their last game on the
Saturday before exams.

Farrell says that fall sports also have
the added problem of post-season tour-
naments now falling during both exam
week and Thanksgiving break. Switch-
ing to semesters will undoubtably re-
‘ieve the pressures on the athletes, ac-
cording to Farrell.

Farrell says that winter sports will
have a major problem with the semester
system, however. The extended vaca-
tion seriously limits the practice ses-
sions for all the winter sports, especially
men and women’s basketball and wres-
tling.

Farrell says it will obviously be “both
expensive and difficult” to maintain
practices, but they are necessary for the
success of the teams.

Many other schools, however, have
demonstrated their ability to overcome
extended vacations. Winter also offers
the fewest number of major intercolle-
giate sports, so it will offer less prob-

lems with adapting to changes than eith-
er fall or spring seasons.

The change to semesters will have a
varied effect on the spring sports. Under
the term system, members of the base-
ball and tennis teams, for example, have
to stay at Davidson over spring break.

This problem will be solved by the
schedule change. The earlier conclusion

of the school year, however, will make
post-season and tournament games
more difficult.

» According to Farrell, the change willl

not have any negative effects on the re-
cruiting outlook. Any difference made
by the change “would tend to be posi-
tive.”

Humanities, Languages

Continued from page 1

course changes.” Neither does he see
ilar outlook for the History department.
“There will be no major overhaul, no
any need to change the major or area re-
quirements.

Like Dr. Partin and many of his col-
leagues, John Kelton, chairman of the
psychology department, faces no “mas-
sive reorganization.” Nevertheless, he
does not eliminate the possiblility of
change. “Anything is open for consider-
ation. We make some changes every
year.” The only adjustrnent directly re-
lated to the semester plan would be in
the sequential Psychology 110, 111,
and 112 courses. Dr. Kelton is sure that
it can be made to fit the new calendar.

Problem With Languages

Unfortunately, not all departments
will adjust as smoothly as others. The
sequential nature of introductory lan-

guage courses poses a severe problem, .

according to Lois Kemp, head of the
Spanish department. She maintains that
keeping a three-term language requir-
ment under the new system would cau

a staffing problem. While: most intro-
ductory students were entering their
third required term, many freshmen
would be starting the sequence. Dr.
Kemp hopes that this overload “won’t
reduce our proficiency level.” She is

concerned that under the semester sys-
tem, Spanish professors will be teach-
ing 13 to 15 hours per week. This would
be necessary to mantain intensive daily
classwork.

Overall, Dr. Kemp anticipates many
readjustments in her department. The
other language departments, however,
have a problem with required sequential
courses. Hallam Walker, head of the
French department, is optimistic. While
he forsees numerous revisions, he main-
tains “we are looking forward to it.”

Dr. Walker, like Dr. Kemp, sees a
three-semester language requirement.
He would have classes meet on the
Monday/Wednesday/Friday plan, with
one additional class period. Drill ses-
sions would continue as usual. Upper
level courses will remain “essentially
the same,” according to Dr. Walker, if
not strengthened.

Like the languages, the art depart-
ment is faced with possible changes.
According to its chairman, Dr. Larry
Ligo, under the semester plan, ‘our
courses cannot be taught in the same
way.” His department plans to re-exam-
ine its curriculum and its requirements.
However, Dr. Ligo does not perceive
this as too detrimental. “I don’t forsee
that any courses will be eliminated.”

14 .,;
