The Council on Campus and Reli-
gious. Life {CCRL). recommended on
Monday 14 December that College

President Sam Spencer accept proposals
from the Black Student Coalition (BSC)
and from a group of students forming an

all-women eating house for the use of

the-two unoccupied éating houses on
Patterson Court, according to Dean of
Students Will Terry, —

If President Spencer approves the
‘BSC request, they. will use: their house
“as Saetput ahammar sn,

poetic

Pres. Sseces co-iemniy cut. of

town, His secretary said that he will not
make a decision until he returns to cam-
pus in about three weeks.

Dean Terry and Associate Dean of
Students Sue. Ross said that the CCRL
recommended the proposals because the
groups have an. “expresed need.” The
Council also wanted social organiza-
tions to use the houses in keeping with
the purpose of Patterson Court..

- According to a Business Office re--

port, a new eating house would have to
show “a student commitment that the
house can- operate in the. black which

could: require: (a) Minimum two year

commitment:from 75: full-time student
members asthe house: starts up.. (b)
‘Willingness to be assessed to cover any
deficit. .(c).. Ability. to acquire. ‘initial
-working capital.” The College: would
-spend about $30,000 to equip and fur-
nish a new eating house.

Ann said the they thought that get-
ting a commitment from 75: students

would be “no big problem.” She pointed .

out that there are 45 girls on, Rusk’s

waiting list.who presumably would

wantto eat inanother all-women house.
Ann said that if Pres. Spencer ac-

cepts their group’s proposal. the new
house would be in the self-selection pro-

cess this spring. They hope to start din-

‘ing services next year: They planto hold -

ett

Rich ards and Bailey

social-events this spring to “bring the

house. together,” she said. “Our social

activities will be a lot like Rusk’s,” she
added.

_ BSC President: André-Kenniebrew _
- said that if Pres. Spencer accepts their

proposal they will use’ the house. for
studying, social events, anid as a meet-

" ing place. They: sought a larger club-
house than their present house-on Jack- -
son Court because the BSC has grown to .

about 50. members, André said: They al-

so feel that since Patterson Couttis clos- ss
erto the main part of campus, students ~-.
will be’ mote likely to attend events 4

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College _

there. “We want to bring in the rest of =

the campus,” André said. He said’ they
also plan to have more. band parties and
activities that bring in non-BSC
members. Funds for the activities will
come from the Activities Tax Council
and BSC dues.

_ Five other groups made proposals

for the use of the houses. The proposals

were. for an operations center. for

WDAY, student housing, a fraternity. -

without eating facilities, an internation-

-al house, and the Women’s Center if the

College converts the current Women’s

Center, the Kimmel house, to faculty ¢ or

administration housing next year::

- "The CCRL recommended that the
present. BSC. house on Jackson Court

become an international house: French
Professor George Poe said that an inter-

national: house. would provide a special »

place for discussions and social func-
tions concerning international. issues.

“These programs are currently scattered

all over campus. A foreign student rec-

“fuited to. coordinate. such .a program

would live in the house with.an Amer-
ican student, Prof. Poe said that if the

__ program is successful the College might
vorieeae a esisacas as a a immer
-.house.:

by Jeffrey Mann ‘84 with ae

Holland ‘84

“discussed the matter

The  Subietacal Policies Commit-
tee (EPC) plans to vote Monday on a
motion requesting that the faculty, in
order to strengthen the major depart-
ménts, vote to discontinue the Center
for Special Studies, according to Vice-

President for Academic Affairs, Dr

Price Zimmerman.

Dr. Zimmerman did not feel jit was «
appropriate to discuss the pei of

the proposal until the Committee.

ain and: made’a —

Friday 15 January 1982

revummendation at which time a com-
plete report will be-issued.

If the Committee votes in favor of
the motion, the proposal will be present-
ed before the faculty at the next meeting
with a recommendation for approval,
Dr. Zimmerman said. If the Committee
rejects the motion, it will be dropped
and will not be presented to the faculty,
unless an individual faculty member

brings it up. .

