= Record reviews with Jon. Glance.

“Romeo Void ©

Never Say N Never

One of the most intriguing new

bands from San Francisco is the.

quintet know as Romeo Void, an al-
ternately ephemeral and hard rocking
band whose new EP, “Never Say
Never,” extends the territory covered
in “It’s a Condition,” their debut al-
bum. Most of the songs deal with love
(unrequited and otherwise) and isola-
tion, in a way which really pulls the
listener into the music. Rather than
detached coolness, the music exudes
a white heat of passion.

The most: outstanding element of
the music at first listen is the distinc-
tive singing of lead vocalist Debora
lyall, whose tonal modulations’ and

conversational style recalls Yoko ©

Ono and even New York No Waver
Lydia Lunch (formerly with Teenage
Jesus and the Jerks, now with Eight-
Eyed Spy), though only retaining a
fraction of the latter’s brittle atonali-
ties. Her voice can both soothe the lis-
tener in the more trance-like passages

as well as cut through the background |

with a sarcastic knife. Ms. Iyall’s
backing band is also excellent,
Jathroughout, providing a tense arena
or her verbal sparring. Saxophonist
Benjamin Bossi particularly excells,
is instrument escaping the usual
power pop guitar-bass-drums combi-

Ancient Theatre Revived

nation, the tenor sax artes and: :

ripping: byt turns.

The most impressive ‘song on ‘the: : o
EP, and possibly the darkest, isthe ti-

tle cut: “Never Say Never”. The gal-

loping bass and drums are first aug-

mented by a scratching, enveloping
guitar, before the haunted, haunting
lyrics exclaim “Time itself was histo-
ry/There’d be no sunlight/Or a glim-

mer of sunlight landing on the:street/ |

Some say girls must be discreet.” The

abstruse imagery ‘continues “Some _.

say girls must be discreet/Nursing

their fathers locked inside/They mas-

queradeé as his bride./I might like you

better if we slept together/But there’s. -
something in your eye that Says ae
maybe, let’s never/Never say never.”

This isolated plea from one of the

wounded in the sexual revolution /epi-

tomizes the power of this band as spo-
kesmen.for the darker side. But ‘the
fact that life must continue on: ‘is
echoed in the brisk hook which patric:
tuates the refrain. .

The other songs on the EP (perhaps

significantly produced by The Cars’
Ric Ocasek) . reaffirm the ‘pulsing
sense of life found in the First sonig:
Rather than join the mechanical: det-
achment of the New Romantics, Ro-
meo Void has taken the stance of en-

thusiasm in rock and roll. Although
such titles as “In the Dark” and “Not

~ Safe” May conjure up a film noir-like

image of hopelessness and danger,
the music denies and redefines:the im-
age; for example, on “In the Dark” the
guitarist plays a line which would
sound at-home in-the surf-rock of the
Ventures. This teasing wit enables
Romeo Void to deal with serious
issues without losing sight of the ba-

sic humor of life. “Never Say Never”
is a fine EP by a truly up and coming
group with a lot of potential for suc-
cess. If their bounce- and trance-rock
repertoire continues to progress, you

may hear much more of them i in the ©
future.

Jon Glance

“SMITHS:

Last Thursday and Friday, a fifth century Roman
comedy played before sell-out audiences. The play
was Miles Gloriosus or The Braggart Warrior, the
winter mini-major drama production. Visiting Assist-
ant Professor of Humanities Dr. Christopher Frost di-
rected the production.

Miles Gloriosus offered students a rare opportunity
to seé attAncient play as something more than a text to
be studied. “Ancient plays are not often performed :éx-
cept as museum pieces,” Dr. Frost commented. In this
production, however, Dr. Frost and the cast did “our
best (6 bring out the vigor of the play,” he said.

Dr. Frost acted as a visiting director for Miles Glo-
riosus. He had-done some directing before he came to
Davidson, and he

but on the play and felt that he was the

fet Fae a he gy jes br seats L- ;

¢had been wanting to direct a produc-
Threatre Department supported.

is Pe Erol director because of his Classics back-. ‘
ground and because it “would give students an oppor-
tunity to work with other people,” Theatre Professor
Rupedtil: Barbexsaid..

Miles. Gloriosus, ike other Roman comedies is
tatlér types. The actors, therefore, had to.

aby Poet ee Sasa. cota

add their own individual flavor to fill out the charac-
ters. Sophomore Suzann Smith, who played Milphi-
dippa, said “the script wouldn’t carry it” since “the
lines are antique.” Consequently, “the characters had
to be vivid.” She commented that most of the actors
represented two different personalitites to the other
characters during the course of the play. In addition to
their primary personality, most characters had mask
which he put on to deceive the Braggart Warrior. Su-

. Zann enjoyed “having the chance to perform .two rdles..

in front of an audience.” In addition, she “liked the  Op-
portunity...to be a total ham and have it accep
Dr. Frost commented that “I have always felt that
there i is an unnecessary stupid division between acade-
mia and the arts. It has been very good for me as a
- Classicist to come to the Theatre department and direct
plays.” He feels that the best way to preserve Classical
plays is to produce them. Aside from other benefits,
however, “nicest of all is just the working atmosphere”
of the Theatre Department, Dr. Frost said.

N

Anne Goodwin ‘84

Ht A Prey, a ies _

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 January 1982

FLOWERS |

302 Smith, Cirlce
Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

The Hair Cottage

Creative hair cutting
for men and women

owner/stylist: Jane Schenck ae

1757E. Rocky River] |

- AR ohiators

ODI GR NCIS TEES Be a ARE.

