Plate 61. De e Brahm) A Map of the Indian Nations.

1766 MS.

Facing page: Plate 55. Henry Popple. A Map of the British Empire in
America. 1733. Both from Cumming’s The Southeast in Early Maps.

tations rewarded; the Duke did indeed have a copy of
the Fry-Jefferson Map, and the folio in which it was
found contained more than fifty maps, most of them
drawn during the Revolutionary War by some of the
best draughtsmen and surveyors then in the colonies.
Many were drawn within hours of key battles and de-
tailed both terrain and troop movements. One of the
most amazing was a small colored map of the Boston
area dated “19th April 1775” which showed the troop
movements of that day when the embattled farmers
“fired the shot heard ’round the world.”

This anecdote captures the essence of Professor
Cumming’s fascination with maps. He believes that
old maps are one of the most important resources avail-
able to the historian, a resource too little exploited.
Early maps, although often beautiful and fascinating in

Dr. Cumming noticed ...amap
of “Carolina” which showed
a large western lake, a 125-mile

desert “Arenosa”’

and of themselves, can also shed a great light on the
problems of why people went where they went and did
what they did. As a simple example, many early maps
show that Englishmen believed the North American
continent was a narrow isthmus separating the Atlantic
and Pacific Oceans. One important reason for the
founding of the colony at Roanoke in 1584, the “Lost
Colony”, was the hope that a passage to the Pacific
would soon be discoverd, thus opening up a trade route
to the Far East.

Professor Cumming’s research requires a highly
specialized knowledge of cartographical conventions,
surveying and nayigational techniques, and a knack for
knowing where to look. It also requires an_ historical.
understanding that is both broad and deep, However,
another essential element is the impressible enthusiasm

..one New England dealer has
told Professor Cumming that
some of his clients will not buy
amap if it is not listed by

Cumming.

and energy which both Professor and Mrs. Cumming
show for their work. Professor Cumming’s retirement
has given him much more time to pursue his avocation,
and he has been indefatigable in his efforts.

Today Dr. Cumming’s preeminence as a cartograpi-
cal historian is widely recognized. This has brought
many rewards and some unexpected surprises. He has
been called as an expert witness in several court cases
because of his expertise, one of them a case before the
Supreme Court. “We never expected to get into fore-
nsic cartography!” exclaims Mrs. Cummings.

As it turns out, Dr. Cumming’s research will be quite
a boon to Davidson College. He is in the process of
presenting his extremely valuable “scholar’s carto-
grapical library, consisting of all my maps, catalogues,
letters, and manuscripts collected over the years” to the
E.H. Little Library. This collection will make David-
son an important center of primary material for carto-
graphical research, and both Dr. Spencer and Dr. Parks
see great benefits coming to the College as a result of
Dr. Cumming’s generosity. One of the most valuable
maps in his collection, the Collett Map of North Caroli-
na, is on display now in the library just to the left of the
reference desk. Also presented this year was a copy of
the Fry-Jefferson Map mentioned earlier in this article.

... Many early maps show that
Englishmen believed the
North American continent
was anarrow isthmus
separating the Atlantic
and Pacific Oceans.

Dr. Cumming is also a past president of the North Ca-
rolina Historical Society and the South Atlantic Mod-
erm Language Association. He was recently the recip-
ient of an honorary Doctor of Letters from the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. Besides The
Southeast in Early Maps (Princeton University Press,
1958), his other major works, all published since his
retirement, include The Discovey of North America,
with R.A. Shelton and D.B. Quinn, 1972, British
Maps of Colonial America (Nebenyah! Lecture) 1974,
Exploration of North America, 1630-1776, with
Hilber, Quinn, and Williams, 1974, and Fate of a Na-
tion, with H. Rankin, 1976. He is currently doing re-
search for the quadracentennial of the Lost Colony of
Roanoke.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/29 October 1982 | —&@
