Une of the key differences has been the defense. Jim
“Peanut” Wright has played far beyond expecttions at
sweeper. You know Peanut — he’s the guy who'd head
a boulder if you asked him to. His solid play on clears
and corner kicks (he’s gotta be the only sweeper in the
East with three shots on goal and as many goals) has
made a huge difference on offense and defense.

Right behind *Nut is Pat Wodward. Everyone ex-
pected the goalie position to be a real weakness, but
Woody has done an outstanding job in the goal. He’s
gone over 500 straight minutes without being scored
upon, and has been a veritable Rock of Gibraltar in
back. At this point he’s probably playing better than
Gréek was at this time last year. In short, Woodward
has been a surprise in the goal and a key to Davidson’s
success.

Goodman has been a pleasant surprise.on defense,
and Bill Wahl is as consistent as ever. Dan Blood is

playing All-Conference caliber as well.

On offense and midfield, Chris Roberts gets most of
the glory as last year’s leading scorer, but a lot goes un-
noticed. He controls the ball at midfield as well as any-
one in the Conference, and that keeps pressure off of

the detense. Brian Hamilton, a fullback last year, is do-

..one of the greatest wins

inDavidson history.

LL aT LETT aT)
ing a superlative job, as well as Peter Burr at center
half. Todd Lambert is playing extremely well (as ex-
pected) and continues to play a team game with a good
mixture of power and finesse. For those of you who
caught the ASU game, you may remember Lambert
was alone on a-fast break, but elected to pass the ball

Hockey Plays Well But

by Kara Gilmore ’8

It was a weekend of mixed emotions for Davidson
hockey — frustration,disappointment, and encourage-
ment. They came away from Boone battlescarred and
weary — disappointed ‘vith the one victory and two de-
feats they breught with them; frustrated because they
could just as easily have come away 3-0;encouraged
because their play improved with each game so that by
the end of the weekend they were playing some out-
standing hockey.

The action began on Friday afternoon against Hol-
lins. The Cats were in obvicus control right from the
start. Continually on the attack. the Davidson offense
exploded. Carol Heppner led the wy, going for a hat-
trick before the Hollins defense even knew what hit
them. Before the end of the first half the Cats increased
their lead to 4-0 ona goai by Carolire Scragg. In the se-

cond half j}Coach Mayes substituted freely so that ever-_

yone on the team ha< ‘1 oppcertunity to play.

Amy Crittenberger provided the scoring punch for
the half-pounding in two goals from her center-half-
back position. Hollins took advantage of some of the
Davidson inexperience to score three goals of their
own. But the outcome of the game was never in ques-
tion as the Cats rolled to a 6-3 victory.

Saturday was a different story, however, as the Cats
faced two tough opponents in Longwood College and

Appalachian State, both scholarship teams.

In the morning game against Longwood, the Cats
jumped to an early 1-0 lead, on a goal from scoring ma-
chine Crittenberger. Before the half was over, though,
Longwood capitalized on a couple of defensive mis-
takes to take a 3-1 lead.

But the Wildcats came clawing back in the second
half. A great goal by Carol Heppner off a scramble in
front of the goal, brought Davidson to within one.
Longwood, though, hadn’t died either and they came
right back with a goal of their own to go back up by
two, 4-2. That didn’t last long, either, as Amy took it to
them again and scored yet another goal. The score then
stood at 4-3.

Unfortunately that’s the way it stayed through the
end. In addition to the fine play of Amy and Carol,
goalies Cathy Morell and Binny Janetta performed ad-
mirably in the cage, combining for 22 saves. It was a
disappointing loss, but not as heartbreaking as the one
that was to follow — the loss to Appalachian.

We knew before we even started that we were defi-
nitely in for a good game against the Apps. Fired up for
a big win after the letdown earliet in the day, we came
out smoking. Constant pressure on the App-State goal-
ie finally resulted in a goal by Sarah Hart to put us in the
lead 1-0. The Apps came back a few minutes later to
get one of their own and tie it.

After that, the game settled into a tough back and

off instead. That’s an example of the team leadership
he gives. ,

Lambert, however, will tell you one of the keys is the
bench. For the first time ever, the benche has been
quality enough to enable Slagle to substitute liberally.
The starters can now go all out safe in the knowledge
that able replacements are readily available.

I could talk about players and plays all day long,
though, and I wouldn’t begin to mention perhaps the
most important aspect of the team’s success — atti-
tude. The last of the attitudinal problems are gone, and
at this point the team’s morale is the best in years.

I don’t think we can laud the rise of the young pro-
gram enough, but let’s give it our support tomorrow
against Tennessee.

Next week: I'll discuss the football team’s ailments.

Soud is sports editor of The Davidsonian.

Drops Two

forth battle — up and down the field, the flow revers-
ing constantly, with each team controlling for a while.
At the half it was still 1-1.

Defense controlled the second half as neither team
could manage a score. Again, as against Longwood,
Cathy and Binny were outstanding in the goal, stop-
ping 15 Appalachian shots between them. So, after two
long hard games, it was time for overtime. Both teams
were noticeably tired as they took the field again, but
that didn’t stop them from really going at it. Four min-
utes into the overtime period an Appalacian offensive
player slipped through the Davidson defense and put
one into the cage. Unable to score in the final three and
a half minutes we had to settle for our second loss of the
day as our record slipped to 5-3.

As Coach Mayes explained, “We are definitely play-
ing better than our record indicates. We’ ve come very
close to beating some very good teams — 2 of our 3
losses have been in overtime and they’ve all been by
one goal. We’ve been in every game right down to the
end. We really played super this weekend and could
have won all three games except for a couple of critical
mistakes.”

Action continues with 3 more road games — Wake
Forest on Wednesday, rival Pfeiffer on Thursday and
Converse on Monday — before we’re home again on
Wednesday October 13 at 4 p.m. vs. High Point. It will
be a game worth seeing.

HARVARD UNIVERSITY
JOHN F: KENNEDY SCHOOL OF

GOVERNMENT

is looking for future leaders in public affairs. Come learn about Harvard’s two-year master’s program in public

policy, leading to either the master | in public policy or city and regional planning degree.

_ -DATE:
“CONTACT:

Meet: Madeleine Thomas

Careers Of fice

Thursday, October 14th

for further information
and location of session.

Assistant to the
Program Director

All students, all majors, all years welcome. Joint degree programs offered

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN/8. October. 1982

ae “oe “°

13
