a aula
~
.

00 sec :
90 m4 p.h. fastball leaves
pitchers’s hand at 132 ft.
per sec

>

90 m.p.h
ate The bat takes about .20 sec. to get to the same place

which the ball passes in about 15 oné-thousandths of

Even though the weather has taken on multiple per-
sonalities, the ‘calendar pays no mind. It’s April 23,
and schizophrenic weather systems or not, baseball is
in session. Soif y’all’d be so kind as to open yourselves
to sundry thoughts on the national pastime, I'll let °em
fly. And I’ll try to avoid throwing curves.

To be sure, io two sports are exactly alike, but it
seems to me.baseball stands head and shoulders above
the rest for its singularity. I’m sure we could all think of
ways baseball is different from the rest, but, for me, the
following are the most striking differences.

Picture, if you will, a baseball diamond. It’s.not rec-
tangular as are football fields and basketball courts, but
in the shape of a diamond. Note the grounds crews as
well. A football field doesn’t require post-game treat-
ment. Immediately after a baseball game, however, the
grounds crew takes the field and nurses it oh so care-
fully back to health—resculpting the pitcher’s mound,
rebuilding the batters’ boxes, packing soil here, loos-

ing it there, watering the sparkling green velvet. Every
diamond is a work of art, its sculptors underpaid as,

alas!, always; and the director’s name not Da Vinci but.

Santarone, The field is a constantly reborn babe, de-

manding constant care.
It is true, diamonds are forever. Baseball is not

| bound by that which binds us all—time. Each and ev- »

ery inning has the potential to extend into eternity. In
basketball, for instance, the scoreboard clock marches
down inexorably. The clock is‘a disinterested despot,
an unfeeling machine crafted by our hands to pose a
predictable and finite limit on the human struggle be-
neath. No human power can end the’steady clicking
through zero and into some new dimension. In base-
ball; however, human effort can check time. Each and
every player is time's tyrant as he and his capabilities
see fit. Baseball’s time is not set by the callous score-
board clock, but anemia tae of hu-
man-effort.

18

0.25 sec. .
Batter must begin swin
when ball is about here
he is to meet it over plate.

rt Gata Pe a
a ee

. pitch takes .42 sec. to reach the center of hom
two must collide within a two-foot wide ‘window’ ‘through

0.42 sec:
Ball and bat must meet within
about 0.015 sec. to hit the ball fair

Courtesy the Baltimore Sun

Finally, baseball is singular-because the defense
holds the ball. This is at the heart of so many people’ s
baseball boredom. A baseball game is more often than
not a chess game of sorts on a grand scale. Bobby
Fischer and Earl Weaver are not so unlike. One plays
with bisohps and pawns, the other with basemen and

pitchers. But Bobby Fischer never has to worry about »

the little wooden pieces making mistakes on their own.
Earl Weaver has to worry.

Meritocracy

A friend of mine is a George Will fan. George Will
is, for those of you who don’t know the name, a colum-
nist for Newsweek. My friend has some Will quotes on
his door, and one of the clippings reads, “Sport is one
of America’s remaining meritocracies, a realm where
equality rises and excellence wins.”

The “American Dream” has run its course, and for
the average man on the bottom of the social ladder, the
odds are against his climbing higher. Sport, however,
is not cast in this decreasingly mobile mold. The
Braves are a prime example. .

In recent’ seasons the Braves have finished so far
down that they set up telescopes to watch the pennant
chase. Look where they are today. It is-a tribute to
equality in baseball that Atlanta and San Diego, the
cellar dwellers of a year ago, are in places one and two
now: Best of all; they’ve done it without the million
dollar maybes: Those two teams are at a considerable
disadvantage compared to their more powerful oppo-
nents, but they win nonetheless. Hard work <<

work are paying off. .

Atlanta will no doubt savor these sweet i Vicscries.
Closet Braves fans will pour out of the woodwork to

celebrate the triumph of the good’ol’ American under-
dog. One hundred: games from now the Braves: will:

probably be fighting .500 (sorry, Charlie), but every-
one will know that it can be done. Miracle Matesiohap-

pen.

“America, cling to the meritocracy of sport! Evenifit

He ee SES Ee

AS VNR

Then he must decide:

ss ea mnie Tp ASS Se NOR Be tre SE RT

is only baseball, at least the underdog can still come
through. Dynasties are not forever. And if the under-
dog can do it in baseball, perhaps there isyet hope for
the lesser aspirations of the common man fighting for

gears and talk about the physics of
illiams,“the Jast major-leaguer to bat
.400, contended that the single most difficult feat in all
of sport is to hit a well-pitched baseball. Consider the
discourse below and the diagram above, and I think
you’ ll agree.
A Nolan Ryan fastball comes at the batter at about
100 mph, and it takes about .38 seconds to travel from

-his hand to home plate. Teammate Joe Niekro, or any

other pitcher with a slow curve, puts the ball over the
plate at a “mere” 58 mph, crossing the plate .66 se-
conds after release. Considering the disparity betwéen
those two speeds, imagine the timing necessary to hit a
Ryan changeup or Niekro fastball.

As if that isn’t enough, if the batter plans to hit the
ball into fair territory, he has only a 15 degree arc
across the. plate with which to work. The ball passes
through this two foot “arc window” in .015 seconds.
Worse yet, the bat has to ‘4 way long before the
ball.is anywhere near home p

So a batter has a lot going on in his mind. He has to
decide. what kind of pitch it is and whether it’s going to
be a strike or ball before the pitch is halfway there.

on speed and trajectory and how

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982.
