Davidson Students
Attend ElSalvador

Protest

Thirty-three students and two profes-
sors from Davidson College joined
23,000 other members of the March 27
Coalition in Washington, D.C. last
weekend to protest U.S. intervention in
E] Salvador.

“The protest was definitely a success
for Davidson,” said Davidson Coalition
on El Salvador co-organizer Elizabeth
Kiss, “I was pleased with the large tur-
nout and high interest.”

The group left Davidson Friday after-

noon and spent the night at the Mount

Vernon United Methodist Church that
night. They assembled for a rally at
Malcolm X Park on Saturday morning
and marched to Lafayette Square in the
afternoon. . ;
After listening to speeches in front of
the White House, the Davidson party
dispersed for dinner and an evening on
the town. They spent Saturday night at

the church and returned to Davidson on.

Sunday afternoon.

Mark Barrett, Carol Loptson, Debbie
Eisenbise, and Kiss supervised the Da-
vidson protest expedition, but not with-
out aid from their friends. Mr. and Mrs.
Kiss arranged for the group to stay at the
local church and provided breakfast on

Saturday moming. Campus Chaplain

‘ Charlie Summers, the Women’s Center

and the College Union have also fur-
nished a lot of support.

- The protest itself was far from pleas-
ant; there were long lines: at-the bath-
rooms, 40 degree weather , and a chill-
ing breeze. But Eisenbise enjoyed the
feeling of community that developed in
the Davidson Coalition. “It (the protest)

. was a good effort; because it brought

students and staff together,” she said.
Eisenbise also felt compassion for the
crowd: “I liked seeing the older people
and especially the young babies.”

Elizabethe Kiss feels that the march
has helped create interest in the El Sal-
vador move at Davidson College. “Just
seeing our flyers sparks an interest,” she
said

‘Carol Loptson agrees, “You read

about these things, (protests) in the pa-

per, but when people you know become
involved, they seem a lot more impor-
tant to you.”

Like so many other events at David-
son, the El Salvador Coalition “sort of
happened,” according to Mark Barrett.
Last February Loptson, Barrett, and
someé friends, circulated a petition con-

demning U.S. involvement in El Salva-
dor. The list of names will be published
as an advertisement in the Charlotte Ob-
server in the next few weeks.

_ After-collecting 170. signatures. and a
. 177 dollars to pay for expénsés, Lopt- ~
son and Barrett decided that there was ©

enough interest at Davidson to form:a
Coalition on El Salvador. Dyring the
next few weeks they held meetings in
the Union, viewed films, and enter-

~ tained speakers. Over 80. people at-

tended the March 15 showing of “Revo-

efforts so far:

lution or Death”, a documentary on El
Salvador. The protest trip to Washing-
ton marked the high point of the. group's

ser stalk i eae aa

’ After two weeks of' hustling and plan-
ning the leaders of the Coalition are
ready to “regroup. ” They are consider-
ing leafletting, a letter writing cam-
paign, a teach-in at UNC-C, and acam-
pus debate as posible future activities.

David Resnik ’85

errr

“The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian ‘Butler -
News Editor :

John Richards

sports Editor: Steve Soud

| International Editors: James Gelly, Dan Turk

Calender Editor: Susan Graves
Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin

Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams

Layout: Jeff Herrin, Lisa ,Boardman, . _
James Rozzelle, Gary Sladcik

Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud,
Neill Cooksey, Eric Long, Kelly Sundberg

Editor EmeritustElizabeth Kiss

Staff: Mark Sheffeild, John Hartman,

Lucy Everett, Jeff Holland, John Verdi,
John Lusk, Lisa Buckley

Graphics: Susan Meyers

Advertising Manager: Karris Hernstein

Old Hand: Thriller ==,

ee

Catuaion @ ~uRaied Wide Gang Gace
yaar by Ge ctadenta of Bavtdscn Caftega Raima anc.
cpundenas to: Gavideenlan, Bom $00, Ontaven, MEMEO.
«Peano TOAD S800, eal. 148 and 149, Glises tuaied ch

i eae ees

oor yoo. Adverizing cams ara oveMeblg cp

PT Oe ee Pee,

DAVIDSONIAN /' Friday 2 April 1982

sh 7 i iy ‘Af AltA

ever a Hk ry
Big ef
