haps one of the better games this year.
Even the players that don’t usually see
much action got in and whipped up.
P.: Excuse me. When you say “whipped
up,” just what do you mean?

E.: Aw, come on, Plimpton, use your
imagination. You know, “whipped up-
” “creamed” ,“beat the s--t out of”.

P.: Okay, get on with the game.

E.: Quit stopping me and I will. Any-
way, Mike Mauzé scored the first goal
on a ball that bobbled around the goal
mouth; he knocked it in from about 10
yards and we knew we’re rolling . . .
P.: What do...

E.: I mean that the team had momentum
from that first goal on. Right after that,
Tony Cavralas crossed me the ball and I
chest-trapped it toward their goal. Their
defender got it and tried to clear it, but I
was bearing down on him so hard that he
panicked and kicked it in. I got credit
though, I think.

P.: I thought that you wouldn’t take gar-
bage goals.

E.: Come on, it’s getting late in the sea-
son . . . Mauzé scored again at the be-
ginning of the second half on a beautiful
volley that rocketed straight into the top
panel of the net.

P.: What about the other two goals?

E.: Tony Cavralas scored the fourth by
juking past about three defenders and
reaming one from about 25 yards. The
fifth goal was mine; a beautiful left-
footed shot after spinning and putting
one of my Pele moves on their defender.
You see...

P.: That’s probably enough about the
goals, especially yours. Did you play
another game last Saturday?

E.: Yes, but that isn’t important consid-
ering what happened Tuesday.

P.: Don’t you think people would like to
read about it?

E.: Why would they when they can read
more about my goals. . .

P.: You know, you’re incredibly self-
ish. Just tell us about Saturday’s game.

E.: I guess you’re right. Saturday’s
game was really a loss for the team even
though they tied 1-1. University of Ten-
nessee soccer is just beginning and I
think we came out a little over-confident

P.: That certainly sounds like a standard
response by teams that have bad games.
Can’t you assess the tie any better that
that?

E.: I was trying, George, until you
barged in with your badgering com-
ment. It’s hard for the team to get up for
every single game; when you’re unde-
feated, everyone is out to knock you off
and that puts a lot of pressure on win-
ning. After Roberts scored on a penalty
and they tied us up with a nice goal, we
got rattled and started arguing a little be-
tween us. There was a big crowd and a
lot of pressure. Tuesday’s 5-0 smash
over Pembroke was a good release for
the team after a frustrating loss.

P.: Well, do you have anything else to
say about the team?

E.: Not really anything important,

George . . . except that we are 7-0-4 and

still undefeated. Oh yes, we got ranked
ninth in the South, the first time in Da-
vidson’s history. Saturday, we play
another Southern Conference game at
home against U.T.-Chattanooga.

P.: What about yourself? Since you’ ve |

scored now, where is the excitement in
playing? Will you enjoy being out every
day and kicking when the thrill is gone?
E.: No way, George. I’m going after the
Southern Conference scoring title.
We’ ve still got eight games left and if I
can average about two goals every
game, I should be in good shape.

‘ P.: That seems kind of ridiculous con-

sidering the present seasonal facts,
doesn’t it?

E.: No, not really, George. I’ve got
more moves than a bucket of worms,
and a million-dollar left foot.

P.: Yeah, and I feel very proud to be on
television trying to sell video games.

by John Ruppenthal ‘a4

\ Freshman forward Sean Austin moves through open field

(top), and shoots past the Tennessee goalie (bottom) in

Saturday’s 1-1 draw.

Hockey Splits with Wake, Pfeiffer

Hamilton Scores Two Against Deacons

By KARA GILMORE’’85

Last Wednesday the lady Cats tra-
veled to Winston-Salem to take on the
Deacons of Wake Forest. What was
supposed to be a good morale-boosting
game almost ended a disaster.

To put it bluntly, we played a terri-
ble first half..We looked sluggish and
sloppy—not hustling back on defense or
cutting hand to passes on offense. Wake
Forest, however, couldn’t take advan-
tage of it and failed to score.

There was one bright spot for us in
the half—a beautiful goal by Mavin
Martin. Mavin collected a good
“through” ..pass from Sarah Hart,
dodged three Wake Forest defenders

and beat the goalie one-on-one with an —

excellent shot at the left corner of the
goal.

The second half was a whole differ-
ent story, as the Cats regrouped at half-
time, Came out ready to play, and took
control of the game. We kept the ball on
the offensive about 90 percent of the
time, applying almost constant pressure
on the Deacon goalie. The defense did a
superb job of supporting the offensive
line and sending the ball back up to
them.

Our second goal came when Suzie
Klineman took a shot from the right

-cormer, which the goalie stopped but al-

lowed to deflect off her pads. Lou Ha-
milton was there to pounce on the loose
ball and send it in. .

The third and final goal came a few

minutes later. Lou scored this one also,
this time with a blast from the top of the
circle off a penalty corner.

The game the next day against Pfeif-
fer could be described in two words:
physical and disappointing. It was a
fast-paced, action-packed game, with
both teams playing very aggressively
with a lot of back and forth action.
Neither team was in control of the
game, as both had numerous opportuni-
ties to score.

Pfeiffer managed to capitalize on
one of these chances about midway
through the first half, to take a 1-0 lead.

It stayed that way until about mid-
way through the second half when Pfeif-
fer managed to score again. All of this
was extremely frustrating for the Cats

Q

since it seemed that between the two
goals we had controlled the ball for a ,~
considerable amount of time, but were/
simply unable to score. 4

After Pfeiffer’s second goal we real-
ly put on an offensive surge. We kept
the ball inside their 25-yard line for.
about five minutes, during which time
we took about seven or eight penalty
corners. As was typical of the day, we
came away empty.

Pfeiffer added two more goals in the
last few minutes to make the final score
4-0: It was a frustrating loss for us, es-
pecially since we had played well and
had come so close to scoring so many
times.

The lady Cats will finally be in ac-
tion at home again Wednesday, 20 Oc-
tober against Converse.

16

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15.October, 1982...

vd
ame
