“Just Like Christmas or
the Fourth of July“

Homecoming and the Matterhorn

By Anne Lambert '86

Like flickerball season and the Jerry Lewis Telethon,
it returns to haunt us year after year. Annual, perpetu-
al, it endures as a hallowed and misunderstood aspect
of Davidson life. It is Homecoming, one of three “Big
Weekends” celebrated by students, administr. ators,
faculty, and alumni each year at Davidson College. As
in years past, this year Homecoming is celebrated with
concerts, dances, parties and reunions throughout the
entire weekend, but as always, the really big show is
the Homecoming football game. Tomorrow, October
9, the Cats go up against Guilford College at 2:00 p.m.
on Richardson Field. During halftime the tradition of
the homecoming court will continue, with representa-
tives from campus eating houses and fraternities vying
for the honoured title of Davidson College Homecom-
ing Queen. This year the court includes:

Rebecca Bates (Pi Kappa Alpha)
Carolyn Scott (PAX)
Suzanne Hutchings (BSC)
Vickie Neale (Warner Hall)
Anne Hockett (Rusk House)
Ivy Goodman (ATO)
Melissa McKeithen (F & M)
Lauren Smith (Phi Delta Theta)
Shannon Hamilton (SPE)
Leesa McPhail Court Council. Following the game, re-
ceptions will be held by various Patterson Court estab-
lishments. Saturday night, the Union is sponsoring a
campus-wide dance in the Vail Commons.

While the Homecoming weekend offers activities
and entertainment for the matriculating Davidson stu-
dent, most agree that it primarily provides Davidson
alumni with an opportunity to return to their fondly-re-
membered college days. As one Davidson student
wisely put it, “Homecoming is called Homecoming be-
cause alumni came back home to Davidson.” Jamie
May,Davidson’s Alumni Director, agrees with this
viewpoint. “The major event, as far as we (the Alumni
Office) are concerned, is the fifth year reunion of the
class of 1977.” .

The Alumni Office is organizing several class reunions

and receptions and is also hosting what it considers

another major activity, the Avant Garde Reunion,

reuniting Davidson College graduates who have been

out for at least 50 years. The “centerpiece function” of

the Homecoming Alumni activities will be a general
" luncheon held in Vail Commons at noon Saturday.

To many, Homecoming is indeed a chance to return
to see old friends and relive old times. They come
back, observes student Buck Bradberry, simply be-
. [People now aren’t appreciative enough of what they
have here.” i

The opinions of Davidson students concerning
Homecoming reflect this statement. “To be honest,”
scoms one, “it’s a joke.”

“The dance is a bore,” remarked another student. “I
plan to get drunk as hell.”

The criticism extends to the Homecoming queen:

competition as well. Remarked on blunt student, “It’s a
Many liberal arts colleges don’t believe that the
homecoming court should preside over a school ‘of
higher education. Emory University for example,
doesn’t have a homecoming qucen competition of any

kind. Why not? Fred Diamond, the Executive Editor of
the student newspaper, The Emory Wheel,says,
“Emory’s like, different, ya’ know?” Lacking a
school-supported football team, the college fraternity
All-Star team challenges Georgia Tech’s frat team to a
football game for charity. Students hold volunteer
fairs, parties, and various other activities, with the pro-
ceeds going to local charities.

Regardless of Davidson students’ personal convic-
tions, Homecoming remains an admitted opportunity
for socializing and entertainment. “Sure it’s fun,” says
one student. “You can go to the little parties and put on
your nice, new clothes, and listen to the funky bands —
but we don’t sprayu paint our hair or go crazy or any-
thing like other colleges — it’s just a fun weekend.”

President Spencer sees homecoming as “just a part of
the college years — it’s just like Christmas or the
Fourth of July.”

Students aren’t limited in their choices of entertain-
ment provided as part of Homecoming. This year the
College Union is sponsoring numerous activities de-

signed to “excite and stimulate the interested student,”
including the band Flight 108 in the 900 Room Friday
and Saturday nights at 10 and 11:30. Friday afternoon
the Union Games Committee will have a Baby Station
Race, and Marshall Crenshaw will appear in concert in
Love Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. this evening. The con-
cert is sponsored by the Union and advance tickets are
available at the Union Box Office for $3.00.

The Pop Films committee will sponsor an all-night
program of movies (Star Wars, 10, Time Bandits) from
1:00 a.m. until 5:00 a.m., or “until people get tired and
leave.” Last night the Spongetones appeared in the 900
Room as part of the Union-sponsored Homecoming ac-
tivities.

Absent are the hoopla and fanfare and old Davidson
grads who won’t fade away, Homecoming would be
just another weekend. As it is, students at least have
some choice of entertainment for the weekend. Re-
gardless of any students opinions or convictions,
Homecoming at Davidson remains, like the Matter-
horn, simply “there.”

How does it work?

But most important, while
For more information, send in

In fact, we'll even pay you more than $550 a month while you attend. That's
in addition to paying for your full tuition and required books and fees.
It's all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program.

___ lf you're selected for a Physician Scholarship—from the Army, Navy, or
Air Force—you're commissioned as an officer in the Reserve.

While you're in school, you'll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining
valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more
years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and
years of scholarship assistance received.

Asan Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer's Pay and benefits,
and enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. You'll also see a diversity
of patients and have opportunities to use 9 sophisticated medical technology
‘rein i
coupon. There's no obligation whatsoever.

Yes, | am interested in receiving more information about an Armed Forces Health
Professions Scholarship. | understand there is no obligation. (OS)

school we'll help pay the bills.

For more information mail this coupon to: :
Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box C 1776, Huntington Station, NY 11746 i
(| Check up to three: ArmyO Navy O Alr Force 0
Name_ Sex___M___F
(please print)
i-
City State. Zip. Phone(

if Enrolied at’

School

Degree DS

(Month, Year)

To graduate in‘. : :

“ne la)
—_______

