Davidson’s admissions policies and practices

This year Davidson is the second most
highly selective school in the South, ac-
cording the Cars & Birnbaum Compar-
ative Guide to American Colleges. Da-
vidson for the first-time rated Highly Se-
» lective in the Cass & Birnbaum selectiv-
ity index, equalling the rating of Duke,
and one point below UNC — Chapel

Hill, which received a “Most Selective”.

rating, the top of the scale.

The Cass & Birnbaum selectivity in-
dex is “a comparative measure of the
scholastic potential of the student body,
an indication of the hurdles a student
will face in applying for admission, and
the level of:intellectual competition he
will face after matriculation.”. David-
son’s rating placed it one step below
schools such as Amherst and Williams,
but above UVa, William and Mary, and
Vanderbilt:

Admissions Director John Griffith
said that Davidson’s climb up the selec-
tivity scale. indicates that the College
has a strong and growing reputation,
and that he expects the College’s reputa-
tion will continue to-improve.

The past two years the College has ac-
cepted about 680 of 1500 to 1600 appli-
cants. Dr. Griffith said applicants are

evaluated according to their academic

performance in high school, their aca-
demic potential, and their activities and
other special characteristics. Last year
the average combined SAT scores for
the’freshman class were 1225; this year

they could be 1230, Admissions coun-
selor Dick: Jones:’81- said: Dr. Griffith
said the admissions staff and the faculty
committee.on admissions seek to shape

a diverse class from among the academ-
ically qualified applicants.

“Minority students comprised three
percent of the 1980-81 freshman class,
and five percent of this year’s class. Dr.
Griffith said that although there are no
admissions quotas, “the recruitment of a

diverse student body is a priority, sol -

was encouraged” by the increase in mi-
nority representation. He said that by

next year the College’s association with
the A Better Chance program, regional-
ly headed-by Assistant Director of Ad-
missions. James (Jimmy) Williams,
should result in minority students show-
ing increased interest in-the College.
This past winter the Trustees passed a
resolution that the student body should
be composed of from 33 to 40% wom-

en, Dr. Griffith said. According to fel-

low Admissions Counselor Diane
Pierce 81, the 40% figure reflects the
current ratio of women to men applying
to the College: Until this year, the trus-

Volume LXXil, Number 22

tees had directed that no more-than 33%
of the student body. should be female.
They enlarged the quota based on rec-
ommendations drawn from a_ study
President Spencer asked Dr. Griffith to
conduct last summer.

Dr. Griffith said “establishing a male /
female ratio is appropriate policy be-
cause Davidson is a residential commu-
nity, and we care about maintaining a
demographic mix appropriate to the

Continued on page 5

No New

The faculty, in their last meeting of
the school year Tuesday afternoon, vot-
ed not to replace our present grading
system with a 4-point numerical scale.

Religion Professor Max Polley ex-

plained the rejection of the plan put for-

ward by the Educational Policies Com-
mittee: “Probably where it ran into diffi-
culty was in the amount of gradations.”

Originally the E.P.C. had proposed
the addition of minuses only to our prés-
ent scale. Because the minus plan was
bound to depress the college’s average
GPA, the SGA proposed their own

scale, which would leave GPAs nearly
the same but which was not linear.

The 4-point scale, invented by Psy-
chology Professor John Kelton, re-
placed letter grades with numbers from
0.0 to 4.0. A number of students object-
ed to the fine distingtions that-Professor
Kelton’s plan d. provide, fearing
that they would mean more grade com-
petition.

“Grades ought not to be central to
the educational process. When I went to
college it was considered very poor taste
to ask what someone got on a test unless

Grading System

they were a very close friend,” Profes-
sor Polley remembered, adding that the
faculty agreed that the number scale
would become “overly complicated for
the student.” “I think the majority of the
faculty would probably like to have mi-
nus grades, but I don’t know if even that
would have gone through.”

SGA President Tim Johnston felt re-
lieved at the proposal’s defeat. “I’m
very satisfied,” he said, “The whole Se-
nate’s ela

Diana Bohrer ‘85

