Heartland Spins Harsh, Beautiful Story

If you plan to cruise through this midwinter weekend
in a lifeboat like I am, or even if you intend to-go on
bored with the rest of the crew, I have a movie for you.
Heartland is an extraordinary movie about extraordi-
narily ordinary people. Heartland is as simple.as the
story it spins and as harsh and beautiful as the setting of
this story. Wyoming and Burnt Fork are unknowns to
Eleanor Randall, who in answer to a newspaper class-
ified ad heads west to “keep house” for Mr. Stewart
and the piece of sprawling land and sky which is his
ranch.

Heartland brings people together, and this proves no
less true for the audience as it does for the characters.
Eleanor Randall and Clyde Stewart were actually early
19th century homesteaders, and came together due to a
piece of paper. Later they joined in marriage, combin-
ing forces to tame the wild land they loved, but which
seemed to hate them. I came together with the other
two members of this particular Wednesday-night au-
dience (namely Mable Teague and Jim Franklin) due to
a piece of celluloid. Before the movie began, Mable,
Jim and I played that unavoidable game of chit-chat
and found out we had more in common than just com-

ing to see the same movie (if you really care to know,
Mable’s son attends Jim’s Alma Mater, which consist-

‘ently beats Davidson in soccer). Yet, afterwords we
needed only a smile and blow our noses and look each .

other in the eye as we slowly left the theatre.

Heartland made me feel good, even as T bush- ©

wacked through the concrete jungle on my way back to
Davidson, thinking about how I will fix the flat tire and

“ unfinished reading I left behind, and where to park the

car I borrowed. How can.I describe.a. movie which
made me cry with joy when a baby was born in the dead
of winter and smile with sadness when the same infant
was buried as the snow melted and the prarie came to
life that spring?

Heartland was produced and directed by Michael
Hausman, Richard Pearce and Beth Farris.. These
names were as little known to me as the fact that the

film was made possible by the National Endownment
for the Humanities. Obviously a product of a new

breed of quas:-independent filmakers, Heartland will
hopefully not be put out to pasture.

The casting is warm and appropriate; we are intro-
duced to a new field of exciting strangers to the screen

{especially Conchata Freel as Eleanor Randall and
Megan Folsom as Grandmother Landower). The: min-
‘imalistic and meticulous acting is perhaps rivaled.only
by. the cinematic beauty of the Wyoming country, side.
Heartland also is rumored to have cost under $100,000
to produce, which doesn’t make. me feel so bad about
being a third of the audience. Clearly Heartland is not
only a movie about pioneers, but a pioneer movie. It .

_sees into the life of things. It might make you think, but

mostly is will make you feel.

An uncommon movie about common people, Hear-
tland is also a friendly movie about strangers finding
each other, and finding themselves less cold because of
it.

Heartland plays at the Capri Theatre on independence
Blvd.

through Wednesday, February 3.

by Andrew Wilson

ROOD EEO:

Yes, your. Army has more than’ 8,600 fE=
aircraft in its active, resetve and national
guard fleet—more aircraft, in fact, than |
the Air Force!

. If you truly want to fly with the brave
—seek out the Army’s Air Cavalry. Out
front, leading the way—flying, among
the trees, seeing without being seen—at
the.controls of the world’s most sophisti-
cated attack helicopter.

You must possess stamina, agility, and
_Tesourcefulness to handle one of these
birds. Decisions must be quick when
dodging trees at 50 knots and orchestrat-
ing the movements and actions of the
other members of your team. Quickness,
decisiveness—this kind of experierice is
what employers are looking for.

~ Get your fatine Off thi giouad nou!
Find out how Army ROTC can prepare
you for this or many other challenging
positions Of responsibility. See the Pro-
fessor of Military Science on your cam-

CPT A. G. Brauer II
892-2000, ext. 170
Basement Belk

Aan. ORR AERAARRRRET ES

CPT A. G. Brauer II
892-2000, ext. 170

OWN ‘YOUR OWN |
VACATION ROME

Re echMoontain

WHAT IS TIMESHARING?

Timeshare ownership is.a real estate concept
that allows you to own a beautiful vacation home
at just a fraction of the normal cost.
Timesharing makes owning a vacation home in

North Carolina. .

For more information call (704) 523-5169 or
Visit our offices at 301 E. Woodland Road,

A TIMESHARE RESORT

“a

.@ reality.

seianinninenininininnininiadad

x

Basement Belk ae

Sane ne nee peRL LERNER ENENENEREED

Charlotte, North Carolina

Sate eaaerawea| is

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday:29 January:1982:. twin 4 a4 | sa id gt PN ao BB RL, “Be
