| sth ibd abana: «ecliptic
po henna eigen
to the effect: , |

Few Sorte have the biivitege of e en-
tering the locker room after a game, but
I was lucky enough to gain entrance to
the locker room/after the ETSU game.

’ Actually, I’m not sure if it’s lucky after.
two consecutive home losses...

Not a whole lot of seople got to see that article, but
they saw the headline senselessly placed over the soc-
cer article we had run the week before. I: won’t name

any names, but don’ t blame me for the mixup- I wasn’t

there for the layout.

Anyway, I was again in the locker room, Saturday.

night. Once again I learned much about Davidson bas-
ketball:

I walked i into the training room and there was recruit:
ing ace Gerry Vaillancourt with a crowd around him.
The company was on the lofty side- a couple doctors,

Wildcat Club Czar Sandy Carnegie, and College Presi-
dent Sam Spencer, They weren’t talking educational
policy or the latest med school gossip either, te sub-

ject was recruiting.

The recruiting deadline is drawing nigh, and at this

‘point recruiters are carrying letters of intent in one

hand, pens in the other, and as the pressure increases
the veins in their foreheads stand out to look more and
more like signatures of coveted players. It’s getting

down to the nitty gritty. He spoke of some of the other

schools” recruiting strategies. It seems a couple of the
recruits. are interested in Davidson because of its out-

- Standing pre-med program. That’s easily understanda-

ble, so other schools in the race for these guys are coun-

‘tering. They tell the kid that there*s no way he can carry

a pre-med course load and still play college ball. Have
they talked to Cliff Tribus lately? Obviously not so

_ they try to push business on the kid.

’ This is a high school senior, and they're playing with
his whole future! Recruiting is a dirty world. Coach V.
is conscientous enough to go with the guy’s present de-
sires, so he’s trying to get some alums in Hippocrates’

STUDENTS, FACULTY, SIORF-
POSITIONS. AVAILABLE. reer).
ExT 148 oR oie By ANY. TMG . |

RS,ART , ain

noble profession to write and present some extra facts.
Vaillancourt went on to say,“It’s scary- you can be
so close and yet so far.”
“And there’s no prize for second in recruiting,” one

_ of the doctors pointed out.

I went. on into the locker room, itself, and there was a
depressed bunch of players. Coach Hussey was mak-
ing the rounds, where he would talk for a minute or two
to each player individually. Jamie Hall didn’t have a
whole lot to say, so I went over to Kenny Wilson.

He, too, was taking it hard, but knew they had VMI
tothink about. “If we play the way we did tonight, we’!
crush VMI.” He looked at the stats. “They can shoot
the lights out. Especially Willie White. It doesn’t mat-
ter how close you guard him, because the closer you
play him, the farther out he goes.” And Willie White
doesn’t miss too often. It was his hand that got the
Mocs off on the road to their comeback win early in the
second half.

I went back into the training room, and on the other
side of the room were Coaches Hussey and Vaillan-
court. Coach Hussey just kept poring over the stat

