On December 12, 1981, Jamhuri
Day, the nation of Kenya celebrated

its 18th birthday. It is a* country
younger than ‘most’ Davidson’ ‘stu-
Goats: 5¢ tm S67 ie been life thie

must accept that the decisions and re
sponsibility for success or failuremust

be their ‘own, but both are usually not

quite ready to 0 it alone.
are og through the work Iam

per: par A ra .

ional aid pro
( » and believe that

‘ies meh signee
‘tas of food, ‘water, medicine, trans-

port and education without ‘outside
help. a. small comer of Kenya ~

enter . worms, bilharzia

piped water will come from the UN
Decade of Water program. The
wheat, corn and rice we eat here were
donated by Australia and the US last
may. When I was in the hospital, the
medicine I took was from UNICEF,
the blankets and bed from CARE, the
doctor from Germany _, the Hospital
from Catholic World Relief. and the
‘nurses were Sisters of Mercy. Our
school building was from the Dutch
agency NOVIB, the house Ilive in
‘from the Church of God Mission, the
nearest road improved by the Norwe-
gian government and the nearest elec-

tricity brought by Italy. The ae

‘ diseases, the

service that is coming is financed by
the IMF. Many of the teachers;. g0-

vernment officials and advisors I.

work with are ex-patriate volunteers

or funded by foreign groups. One:
of.
Education comes from the British Go-

fourth of the budget of the

vernment. Kenya is also-one of the -.
stablest and most developed of the, ~

countries of Black. Africa..
.. Ronald Reagan would be pleased

| proud of the level of private inter-~

national investment in Kenya.’ Nairo-

bi is a glittering international city with —
- every amenity and business opportu-

nity, and new building and expansion
constantly going on. Nearly every im-
portant international corportion with

African interests has offices there and ~
many have plants or distribution cen-

ters in the country. Kenya can attrib-

ute a great deal of her. development )

and Third World “success” to private

sources, but also a number of increas- .

ingly distributing problems.

~The gap between:
poorest Kenyans has trebled. in: the
last ten years. An ex-patriate manager
of acorporation here makés five times
.as much in salary and benefits as ite

-.__ ces, power and motivat

‘the richest and

Kenya counterpart. One glance at the |
book, Who Owns Industry in Kenya ,

published by’ the Nationdl Christian
Council of Kenya and now banned,

. takes away any, illusion of laa

ns of major

muiltinational corporations compared

‘to.those of the Kenya government are
 distrubingly out of proportion and
_. perhaps: out of control.’ One of the

most ‘blatant and frightening exam-

* ples I know occurred last May when _

Shell Oil decided to withold certain

~~ products and threatened to pull out of

the country: unless the government
made concessions in its price controls
of various petroleum products. A

Showdown was avoided, but it was

not Royal Dutch Shell who gave in.

Another ongoing scandal with which

Thave personal experience is the vast

quantities ‘of contaminated, expired
and experimental drugs dumped and

“tested” in Africa by major pharma-
ceutical firms.-I personally poisoned
13 panne paracetamol that had -
been. ‘knowingly ‘contaminated with
Aflotoxins in Italy and then shipped

~ and Laennent by ihe Benya Minis-

--try of Health. None of our: students

died, but over 70 other Kenyans were
not so lucky. In our local village shop
any mother can buy Nestle Lactogen,

‘mix it with river water: that she

doesn’t know to boil and give her ba-

‘by, terminal diarrhea.

-An American living in GNP no. |
can be surprised or casually interested
when reading about how many. and
how highly various Fortune 500 cor-

- porations rank above many nations of

the world in financial. power. A Ke-
nyan living in GNP no. 107 should be

- alarmed and dismayed to see how

many of thdse financial giants have

interests and i invéstments here. Given

the world wide competition for such
investment and the relative. govern-

. méntal capability of . enforcement,

you can imagine who. wins in ques-
tions of pollution worker housing,
plant safety, unionization, pricing,
export licenses, foreign exchange
control and profit distribution.
Private investment — certainly
brings. important benefits of employ-
meant, training, production, prestiege
and’stability to developing countries.
It is not, however, remotely in thei in-
terest of a private investor, nor can it }

' logically:be expected, for him to pro-

vide water, food, hospitals, schools,

_ Sanitation, roads or volunteers to help.

uneducated and malnourished rural
populations. Furthermore, where.
profits are concerned, one with power

usually presses his advantage, and the

type and amount of power a private
corporation has in the. Third World
can well be beyond the capabilities }

_ for: meaningful control without out-

side help. It will be interesting to see

what happens in Ronald Reagan’s Ja-

maica. Afterall, look at the effects of.

private investment in Louisville on
.. development in rural Appalachia. —

