Tim Ritchie (No. 82)and David Teer make their way

through the treacheries of European Cross Country.
Ruggers Romp over
Belmont Abbey

By MARK MORRISON ’83

The Davidson College Rugby Club
improved its record to 3-1 with a 22-10
trouncing of Belmont Abbey on Satur-
day. It was Davidson’s best outing of
the year.

Despite Belmont Abbey’s size ad-
vantage, the DCRC was able to win
most of the scrums and lineouts. Once
again, scrum half Jim Brueggeman
opened the scoring with 6 quick points.
Late in the first half the Davidson for-
wards moved the ball with good team
play culminating in a brilliant run and
successful try (T.D.) by pack leader
Theo Wright. Bruggeman added the
two-point conversion to end the half
with a 12-0 Davidson lead.

Davidson consistently moved the
ball in the first half getting fine runs
from Wright, back Hunter Gourley, and
forward Leif Johnston. Gang tackling
from backs Todd Thomson, Steve

Stine, and Tommy Cardwell kept Bel-
mont Abbey off the scoreboard during
the half.

The second stanza began with ag-
gressive hitting from Davidson’s
flanker Joe McMullen, and backs John
Ferguson and Pat Millen. Five minutes
into the second half, the Wildcat backs
swarmed into Abbey’s backfield, al-
lowing Thomson to block a Belmont
kick. Thomson immediately fielded the
loose ball and romped in for his second
try of the season. Brueggeman extended
the lead to 18-0 with the conversion.

With twenty minutes left in the
match, Belmont Abbey capitalized on
two Davidson micues to score two tries
good for a total of 10 points.

The match ended on one of the most
spectacular plays made by the Wildcats
this year. A scrum was formed on the
Crusader ten-yard line. Hooker Nick
Tsantes won possesion of the ball for the
advancing Davidson scrum, allowing

by Anderson Scott ‘84

Cross Country

Bound for NAIA
Nationals

By GARRY SULLIVAN ’83

This year Davidson’s harriers en-
tered the NAIA, a division that features
teams of roughly the same caliber as the
Wildcats. The wisdom of this league
change was evident last week at the re-
gional meet, in which six Davidson run-
ners were named All-District and quali-
fied for the national championships in
Kenosha, Wisconsin on 20 November.

The meet was run at Pembroke’s
Riverside Country Club in conjunction
with the monthly golf tournament.
Many a golfer cursed those “damn run-
ners” who usurped their sand traps and
broke their concentration, but neither
sporting event was greatly disrupted.
The men’s race was dominated by the
St. Augustine team, which filled four of
the first five slots. Davidson’s Frank
Ivey tried desperately to.catch the top
St. Augustine runner in the last few
yards of the five mile race but had to set-
tle for a second place time of 25:42,
which was still fast enough to earn him a
berth on the All-District team and a
competitor’s number in the national
meet. Equally impressive was the su-
perlative finish of Jim Trotter, who later
claimed that his key to success was rest
and frequent consumption of Geritol. A

the scrum’s number-eight man, Pat
McMaster, to grab the ball. He wheeled
around the moving scrum and charged
toward the end zone. McMaster met
three Abbey defenders at the five-yard
line and bulled forward for the final Da-
vidson try, ending the game with the 22-
10 score.

The win over Belmont Abbey im-
proved the Davidson College Rugby
Club record to 3-1. The only loss came a
week ago Saturday against the N. C.
State Rugby Club, the top collegiate’
team in the Carolinas. A combination of
DCRC’s sloppy play and State’s bigger,
quicker team resulted in a 23-3 loss to
the Wolfpack.

Tomorrow, Davidson will travel to
Belmont Abbey to complete the home-
and-home series. The match starts at
1:00; the DCRC appreciates the support
from the Davidson students and hopes
to see more fans at the upcoming games.

8, NODS UOS’apUuY Aq

fully recovered Jack Smith closely fol-
lowed Trotter in a time of 27:39. Team
metaphysician Bryan Zielinski and
“Fleet-of-Foot” Frank Hague finished
seventeenth and twenty-first, respec-
tively, in the meet and grabbed the last
two slots in the Wildcat fast five.

The female harriers surpassed ever-
yone’s expectations with their perfor-
mances at Riverside C.C. The Cats took
command early and never let up, putting
five runners not only in the top seven
places but also on the All-District
squad. Jean Webb reigned supreme
with a five-thousand meter time of
19:01 and was closely followed by Sar-
ah Patterson. The depth of the team was
again evident in the fourth, sixth, and
seventh place finishes of Tamara Fore-
man, Chris Seel, and Karis Herrnstein.
Seel and Herrnstein ran expecially re-
markable races and were both within
fifty seconds of Jean Webb. The defeat
of St. Augustine and Campbell quali-
fied the female runners for the national
meet and Davidson’s Sterling “Don’t-
call-me-‘ Yahweh’” Martin, named dis-
trict Coach of the Year, is pcurrently
working with Coach Farrell to find
funds for a much-deserved Lady Wild-
cat trek to Wisconsin.

The faces of Rugby

18

eat we
