THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXil, Number 4

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday, 15 October 1982

Religion at Davidson

An Interview with Spencer and Zimmermann

By PEGGY PIEROTTI 86

College President Samuel Spencer
and Vice-president of Academic Affairs
T. C. Price Zimmermann were inter-
viewed this week concerning the place
of religion at Davidson. Although the
interviews were conducted individual-
ly, Spencer and Zimmermann were
asked similar questions and their re-
sponses are recorded here together.

Davidsonian: How important is the
aspect of religion at Davidson?

Spencer: I think it’s very important
because, of course, the college was
founded by people who believed that it
was a legitimate connection between
reason and faith, and that the two really
went hand in hand with the kind of edu-
cation that they were interested in.
Therefore, it has remained as a basic
commitment of the College.

Zimmermann: | think it’s very im-
portant in the total make-up of the com-
munity and the context in which life and
teaching and learning go on. It’s an im-
portant part of the make-up and the out-
look of the faculty, administration, and
most of the students.

How do you feel that the religious
influence has changed throughout the
history of Davidson?

S: In several ways. I suppose the most
obvious way is that up until about 20
years ago—as with the case with most
church-related colleges—there were
some outward symbols which seemed to
indicated to the public that we were a
church-related college. I’m talking
about such things as required worship,
especially, and stricter rules. I never
thought that those were fundamental to
the church relationship or to the Chris-
tian commitment; that really isn’t what a
church-related college is about. Having
those symbols doesn’t make it church

related, and not having them doesn’t
make it not church related.

Another way in which it has

changed is in the concept that all
members of the faculty and staff are vir-
tually officers of the Presbyterian
Church. Over the years, of course, there
has been a much broader view that, in
the first place, they shouldn’t necessari-
ly be Presbyterian, and secondly, that
they shouldn’t necessarily be Protestant
or all committed to the Christian faith,
though the policy stated now is that the
preponderant majority of the faculty
should be committed to the Christian
faith and that all members of the faculty
should be in basic sympathy with the
College’s position.
Z: Since I only know well the last five
years of Davidson’s history, anything I
say about the past is speculative. I think
that the form in which the commitment
is expressed has changed a great deal,
but I think that the commitment remains
equally as strong. In the early days the
students used to have daily chapel and
two weekly services on Sunday and
weekly prayer meetings; today certainly
nothing is required in the way of atten-
dance, but it is still very strong despite
the lack of requirement.

What effect does Davidson’ s status
as a church-related college have on Da-
vidson’s image in public and academic
communities?

S: I think the fact that it is a church-
related college affects different people
different ways. Some feel that because
it is church-related it is sectarian; I don’t
think that is an accurate perception. I
think that Davidson has proved and is
proving that you can be good academi-
cally and still be committed to your
church relationship. For many paeople,
being church-related is a plus: factor.

Z: I think it is a strength to those
who believe and a weakness to those

who don’t believe in this sort of com-
mitment or purpose. Some people dis-

. miss all church-related colleges as com-

promised by dogma, despite the fact
that education at Davidson is not com-
promised by dogma.

Do you think that the relationship
with the church strengthens Davidson
as a liberal arts college?

S: I think it strengthens it as a type of
liberal arts college. The people who
founded this college felt that there is an
advantage in having a college that is
dedicated to the proposition that there is
an can be a valuable combination of rea-
son and faith. In that sense, yes, it
strengthens it. It doesn’t mean that non-
church-related colleges are poorer liber-
al arts collges, nor does it mean that be-
cause of that we are a good liberal arts
college. Continued on

Student Body Rejects

Semester Plan

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

The Davidson student body over-
whelmingly rejected the Semester Plan-
ning Committee’s proposal in last Tues-

day’s SGA referendum by a 743-120.

vote. The vote against the proposal
amounted to 77.2 percent of the votes
cast, while 22.8 percent voted in favor.
Student Government Association
Vice-president Boe Young says he is
“not surprised” by the outcome and that
it indicates the .students are “solidly
against” the semester system.
According to Young, the voter tur-
nout was higher than “all other elec-
tions.” The referendum drew 962 votes

as compared to barely 600 in last year’s _

SGA elections.
Young attributes the high turnout to
a strong negative vote. The students

e 13.

“who voted negatively,” says Young,
“‘were more eager to vote.”

Young is quick to point out that the
turnout is not misleading, however. Ev-
en if every student had voted, the 743
opposed to the change would still con-
stitute a solid majority.

SGA President Tim Johnston will
present the results of the referendum to
the faculty at their 19 October meeting.
The SGA will also report its results in a
letter to Semester Planning Committee
Chairman Sam Maloney.

Last year the Educational Policies
Committee brought forth,a proposal to
change the grading scale, but the faculty
rejected it in response to student objec-
tions. Johnston cannot predict if the ref-
erendum will affect the faculty, howev-
er, because he says that the faculty is
“very unpredictable.”
