Boho Ponde

Liberal Arts Education

As I near the end of my formal liberal arts training, I ,
have turned my thoughts to asking what it might have: _

all meant. This is no.doubt pretty standard procedure
for ripening aspirants to degrees in pre-profundity.

I began thinking in serious terms about the possible
value of higher education at about the same. time as I
had my first real-job. This also is probably not unusual.
At the time (I was sixteen), my conclusion was that the
purpose of any education beyond what the law required
could have only one purpose—to keep whoever was

lucky enough to have it from having to cut, brush, lift:

heavy crates, and push shovels all his life. That-is-to
say that the difference between a man who was educat-

ed and one that was not lay in where he did his swea-: °

ting—whether on the squash court or on the job. Need-
less to say, this was before Peter Berger and the con-
cept of anomy wereknownfome. =
Now that I’m onthe other end of a college experience.
(as university catalogs and SGA candidates like to call
what we are up to around here) these thoughts have

grown up a bit. I now see the difference between the .
educated and the rabble merely as one of understanding, . -

the situation he is in. The uneducated blue collar type
feels that it is ‘only his own unillustrious position in a
basically sound machine that leads to his feelings of al-.,
ienation, deprivation, and loneliness. So he spends his:
life believing that if had gotten some advanced educa-
tion he would. be a bigger wheel in the system and
therefore reap its wonderous benefits. That is, of
course, if he can squeeze into the picture at all which

may mean that he has tobe white, male, or Christian.

But that tirade is for another day.

The liberally educated, on the other hand, have the
distinct privilege of seeing the world as a circus of
blind leading the blinder. This does not necessitate the
cynicism that it might imply. I think most of the intel-
lectual community remains dedicated to the possibili-
ties of humanity. A small number of these even try to
advance those possibilities. And that’s great.’ But in
our Solitary. moments we are always able to remember
that nobody really understands all these numbers any-
way (to paraphrase a famous U.S. budget director).

But let us not undersell the value of having learned
that there’s really nobody ‘in charge. A few hundred

years ago Martin Luther came to realize that the people’.

who were running the show in most of Europe not only

didn’t kniow: what they were talking about,’ but were.
striking fear into the hearts of thousands just for the hell

of it. He is just one example of the stalwart few who
know enough to see. that the system is full of it. This
isn’t to say he made any improvements—that's not for
me to say and may well be impossible. But there’ is
virtue in'‘exposing authority and society, for what itis, if

only to keep it from going too far in any one of its many

possible self-destructive directions.

‘ 4 College Press Service

Huxley’s Brave New World comes to mind:(I- hope
the folks in Iredell county don’t get hold of this). \Wor-
shipping the Great. God Ford sounds ridiculous in book

form. But when we look around and see that we are ac- _

tually doing it, we experience the notion of the absurd
as only the liberally educated can. ae
And what are the mechanics of all this sublime en-

- lightenment? Even before we came tocollege, we were

told things like “Liberal arts will teach you to think.”

“You will learn to see all sides of.a situation.’““You .

will learn to value other points of views.” There are
more, but you'get the idea,. You all remember. But

what makes all this happen? What does education do to

give us these abilities, to whatever extent we ever have
them? Here are a few answers. More could be added.
The ability to stereotype responsibly: We are, in

the course of our schooling, wamed constantly of the. .
dangers of generalizations. At the same time; great ~
~ thought, through the history of humankind, has been

great because of its meaning for a general, even univer-
sal situation. So the ability to.link characteristics and

CLASS OF ‘62 || CLASS OF ‘72 |} CLASS OF ‘82
_ os DAVIE WORK'S -(cc433 of Vo) — .

their manifestations consistently is hecessary to the un-
derstanding of any situation, Stereotype does not have
to. be a bad word. |

The ability to think and speak in metaphor: this
little gem has paved the way for literary, social, and
political virtuosi since square one. The Old Testament
writers. knew its power, as did Hieronymus Borch and
James Joyce.

The ability to perceive paradox: This is the one that
most forms of authority (parental, governmental, edu-
cation) find dangerous ‘in their constituents. Need I say.

Most of what:has been said or written about educa-

_ tion over the years has been in'terms of why. These are
~ my thoughts on what and how. I hope you have en-

joyed them.

_ There isn’t going to be.a party at the Nasty Rathole

this Saturday. « “

John Hartman’82___

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April. 1982

15:
