Sig Eps and Fijis to Submit
Their Own Proposals |

The “Patterson - Court . Council. has
developed :a proposal to limit noise: lev-
els during all college social events. The
Sig » sr s will submit theirown
we ‘said, “Watts Dorm

als to go before the Town’ ane
nal approval within the. necren anon
“This is the College’s proposal for a
noise ordinance as. opposed to having:a ©
town-wide ordinance”, explained Joe.
The S.G.A.. discussed it on. Tuesday
night, and Dean of Students: Will Terry
must review it before it goes to the
Town Council, he added.
The proposal. was modelled after the
Chapel Hill noise ordinance, Joe said.

“It is probably—definitely—going to
pass,” he added.

Maximum legal limits on the sound
emanating from any évent, will be set,
as measured from. the nearest property
line.. Outdoor athletic events, construc-
tion operations, church bells, warning
devices, Spring. Frolics events, fire
works, and lawn mowers are exempt
from the limits. .

Dean 'Terry’s office will issue permits
for special events to exceed the normal
limits by approximately 15 decibels, as
measured from the nearest property

line. The actual noise limits, with and _

without'a permit, are still subject to de-
bate, Joe said. They will definitely be
lower than the limits in the Chapel Hill

ordiance, “because Davidson is a quite -
_ town,” Joe said. He hoped thatthe prop- -

osal is “restrained enough so the town
will be happy, and free enough so we
will be happy.”

Thete wilkbe a five dollat administra-

tion.fee for permits issued at least 48 :
- hours’ in advance. Otherwise,.the fee

will be ten dollars. Exceeding the legal - °
_- limits will carry a fine of 100-dollars.

What will. happen to the money has
not yet been decided, Joe said.. David-

> son College police will enfore the noise

levels, with a, state-owned sound Jevel

~ meter. "The money raised from fees anid

fines may go into a fund to buy sound-
measuring equipment.

Fiji President Jim Troutman is “will-
ing to go along with it,” [the proposal]

_ he said. In his view, the College and off-

campus proposals must be: similar in,,
‘three respects. They will have'to specify
the same noise levels, the ‘same fine,

and give the College the power to en-
force the levels.

Joe Ford explains that since the Pat-
terson Court Houses have a sort of “‘buf-

_ fer zoné”, a long distance separating

them from the nearest town resident,

their effective noise levels will -be™

-higher than those for the off-campus fra-
ternities.. Troutman disagrees, but he
does not foresee the noise limits having
any effect on the Fiji social calendar.

“The last party we had was a little
quieter, and a lot of people liked it better
that way,” he explained. He didn’t think

that the noise limits would cause more .

Fiji parties to be at F & M. -

The presidents of ETC and PAX also :
predicted no great effect upon their par-

ties. “Most of our parties are indoors an-

. yway”, said Mike Healey Cc 82), Presi-

dent of PAX.
Joe’said that SGA President Chip Le-

- gerton put him: in. charge of the noise .
proposal because “I have been very in-

terested 1 in it from the start. pe

by Pete Gulyn

os Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84

Friday 22 January 1982

Center Saved

The. Educational Policy Committee
voted down a proposal on Monday to
recommend tothe faculty that the Cen-
ter for Social Studies be closed.

The Committee was responding to a
proposal introduced by religion Profes-
sor Max Polley, that included the clos-
ing of the Center in order to strengthen
the Departmental Majors.

Several students circulated a petition
in support of the Center when the EPC
started to consider closing it. Sopho-
more Elizabeth Smiley said the petition
would be sent to Dr. Zimmermann to
present to the faculty.

According to the chairman of the
Committee Vice-President for Academ-
ic Affairs Dr. T. C. Price Zimmermann,
‘the committee wants. to strengthen the
‘senior year by encouraging ‘seniors to
pursue honors studies and write senior
theses. There was some question on the
part of the faculty as to whether faculty
members could work at the Center with-
out weakening their work with majors in
their own department.

According to Psychology Professor
John Kelton; a member of the EPC,
some faculty members felt:that having a

“faculty member at the Center makes it
difficult to encourage and areerae

theses.

As part of the plan to discontinue the
center, the proposal would have estab-
lished an Interdisciplinary Committee
in order to allow students to pursue. in-
terdisciplinary studies. Dr. Kelton said
this committee would have provided for
courses in interdisciplinary study only,
and not majors.

Since the Committee voted in favor of
recommending the continuation of the
Center, however, they deeméd the In-..
terdisciplinary Committee unnecessary.

Dr, Kelton said that as far as he knew
no one. on the Committee is planning to

_ bring up the issue of discontinuing, the
-, Center at the upcoming faculty meeting.

He said: the Committee discussed the

_ matter ane decided that the gains for the

departments by discontinuing the Cen-

~ ter were not worth the losses. .

The Committee:did approve recom-
mendations. to the faculty on three
points designed to strengthen work in
the departmental majors. They recom
mended that [1].a description of all ho-
nors theses appear in the Commence-
ment program; [2] that the Commence-

ment pragram mention Only cum laude

and Honors Program achievements; [3]
and, Professors should receive one
teaching credit for every six. honors or
senior r theses supervised.

