For five seniors, it was their last hur-
rah. . Wednesday’s~ baseball game
against archrival UNCC was their home
season finale, and the team put together
a solid effort to beat the 49ers 4-2.

Of.the five seniors (Rusty Colechia,
Allen. Griffin, Earl Ransom, Marc
Webster, and Brian Whitmire), Beaver
and Co-co stole the spotlight.

Griffin’s two doubles and a walk in
four:trips to the plate bolstered his aver-
age to. .419 and added to his school re-
cord total bases for the season (100).
“I’ve played here for four years and it
was really good to finish up so well,”
the senior shortstop said.

Colechia started and went the dis-
tance, yielding only five hits in the im-
pressive effort. He sent four down with
ks and neither 49er run was.earned.

-Of the other seniors, Webster had a
good/defensive day with several assists
including the game’s final out, Ransom
reached base on a sac bunt and wound
up scoring the fourth run. Hollywood, a
relief pitcher when Co-co needed none,

gave a “first rate performance as first
base coach.

Davidson scored its runs in the first,
fifth, and eighth innings. Beaver
walked and came around to score in
first, and in the fifth he and sophomore
Jeff McSwain hit consecutive doubles
with two out to score a second run. In
the-bottom of the eighth with‘none out
Swainer slapped an infield single to
deep short to get the inning going. Ran-
som bunted down the right side, but the
pitcher couldn’t get the handle and both
were safe. Phil Gordon laid down a nice
sac bunt to advance both runners into
scoring position. Lefty Doug Wiley
stepped to the plate and hit a sharp line/
grounder to the second basemen, who
played the hop off his chest for an error.
Wiley got the two game- winning rib-
bies.

In the top of the ninth Co-co led off
the inning with his fifth k, but walked
two to bring the go-ahead run to the
plate. “I was getting a little tired, and I
just wanted to throw strikes—I knew

they couldn’t hurt us with the long ball,”

Colechia said. He threw the strikes and
pitched himself out of the jam.

First year Coach George Greer was
pleased with his team’s effort, “We did
all the right things,” he said, “We bunt-
ed, we executed when we had to, we
moved the runners over. Doug Wiley
comes through, hits the ball hard, and -
makes them make a mistake. He blis-
tered it.” His Wildcats are improving,
and everyone was happy with the win.

Last week the team split a double-
header with Gardner-Webb. “We were
Just one pitch away from winning or los-
ing both games.” The Cats dropped the
first game 4-3, but took the second 8-5.
In the top of the seventh with the host
leading 2-1, Marc Webster lined a 1-2
pitch into the outfield to bring in the ty-
ing run. In the next inning Jeff McSwain
put the Cats on top with a home run, and
several timely hits after that brought the
Wildcat tally to 8 runs,They got three
runs back in the bottom of the eighth just
to make it interesting, but Bobby Barnes

held on for the win.

Against Winthrop a 15mph tail wind
scooted a couple of routine fly balls out
of the ballpark as they shelled Wildcat
pitchers for 15 runs.

Against East Tennessee, however,
the Cats were their own worst enemies.
“We had them, but we made some def-
ensive mistakes that didn’t show up as
errors. Overall, though, we played
well,” said Greer. “’We’re improved,”
he. continued. “We’re starting to do the

- little things baseball players need to do

to win, and I think the trend will con-
tinue into next year.”

Saturday the Cats wrap up the 1982
season as they travel to Western Caroli-
na, where the Catamounts must sweep a
twin-billing to tie for the Southern Con-
ference Championship. The Cats, with
a chance to play spoilers, will be fired
up. Says Greer, “We will play both
games like the seventh game of the
World Series. If they beat us, they’re
gonna have to earn it.”

Steve Soud ‘84

Aen’s Tennis

Shocks SC

The men’s tennis team finished the
1982 season this past weekend with a 17-
12 record and third place finish in the
Southern Conference Tournament.
Coach Jeff Frank was satisfied that his
team’s performance had been up to his
expectation.

“I’m really as pleased as I could be
about the tournament. Going in to the
tournament, I thought we would finish
‘between third and fifth. I would have
been happy to finish fourth so I was real-
ly pleased with where we finished. I
knew Furman (which finished first) and
UT-C (second) would be strong, so that
from our viewpoint finishing third
would be first for us.

The Wildcats placed two players in
the finals: Senior Nevins Todd, at No. 3
did what Frank called “his usual solid,
outstanding job.” Freshmari Sedge Grey
also finished second at No.3. “All of the
oonference coaches were quite im-

pressed with Sedge’s mental tough-
ness,” said Frank.

In addition to the singles finalists, the
No. 3 doubles team of Grey and Phillip
Crowder reached the finals.

The Wildcat netters came in to the
tournament playing what Frank called
their best tennis of the year. The Cats
had won six of their previous seven
matches and had upset Appalachian

State. This part of the season was grati-'

fying for Frank who said the season was

“everything I'd hoped for from this

team.”

Frank is optimistic for next season.
“We bring back a really good nucleus,
losing only one of the top six, so that
looks good right there. In addition, this
has probably been the best recruiting

year I’ve ever had. We'll be young, but |

next year looks promising.”

Scott Beaver

Continued from page. 21

their choice, the campus visit was the
answer. “Our players put on the final
touch and they were the big reason why

‘we got the kids that we got . . . They (the
recruits) always said they were im-
pressed with the caliber of kids we had
on the team. They were impressed by
the size of the campus, the atmosphere,
and the feeling they had for it. And that
goes back, I think, to we did a good job
on reading the prospect and seeing
would a Davidson environment appeal
to this kid.”

Vaillancourt described the campus
visit, “We brought him on campus and
you know he stays in the dorm with the
players—we don’t put him in hotels. He
will attend classes in.an area of his ma-
jor, he will meet the professor. Dr.
Spencer did a great job of explaining

~ Davidson to the player. Our Admissions

people did a great job of explaining to

'- him. the academic requirements and the
- options available to him on campus. Ths
* students, whether they realize it or not, —

‘gave off the i image that this is a comfor-
“table and enjoyable place to go to
school. And our players are ‘Sreat re-
cruiters.”
Finally, of course, ‘comes national
signing day. April 14 was the culmina-
“tion of months of hard work. Coach
“Vaillancourt signed Bill Pollock, but
I'll let him tell the story.

“I watched baseball practice—I was

perwork.

told other coaches would be coming to
look at him. I got to baseball. practice
and I see these cars pulling up. I’m look-
ing around, and I guess some of these
schools didn’t think it was over yet. So
Bill was taking batting practice and |
was holding up the National Letter of
Intent, pointing at it. And he would
wink and smile because we knew
there’d be no problem there.

“All the kids stuck to their word.
When they committed verbally they
stuck to their decision. We respected
that a whole lot.”

And so concluded an outstanding re-
cruiting year.

But more than anything it was a
team effort. Coaches Hicklin and Vail-
lancourt returned from a summer road.
trip to an office that had been a folder-
covered mess but was suddenly neat.
While they were gone Coach Baker and
secretary Debby Yound had worked He

-what they called the “pick system,”

single card with all the necessary infor.
mation on a player. Vaillancourt fig-
ures, “By that oné,card they had saved
us 30% of our ‘paperwork. :

But the teamwork went past the pa-
“Robbie’ helped pull me
through, and we would have our little
one-on-one almost therapy sessions.
When he saw. that fatigue setting in,
Robbie was a great help pulling me
through. And L thiged 40 got him cranked
up.

“It might be ‘out of anxiety—we

‘Continued on page’ 23

oy)

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982
