Good & Bad?

Something very peculiar has happened over the last few weeks.
‘I’m not sure exactly how this started, but the nature of the mail I
have been receiving in the Good & Bad mailbox has changed

significantly over the past few weeks. Initially, I thought I hada oO

couple of quacks on my hands; from what I understand, even the By ANN MEADOR ’85
best columnists get a few loopy letters each month. But I’m = () _—_—_—

convinced this is different, on toward serious. Read a few .
examples, and you’ll see what I mean. 7 Well, that iced it. New format? Help them with problems? |

“~ . J just love your column and I think you make such funny have at least a gillion letters like these, all signed with things like

_ jokes so I know you could help me with this problem I have about “Baffled in Buffalo.” I can’t believe this—all these people think this
this Halloween party I went to after the Furman game where I saw is some advice column. This isn’t what I had expected at all...
this boy dressed like a Smurf and I really wanted to meet him but he Those first letters had been so encouraging: people telling me
kept dancing with a girl with mime paint on so I couldn't. So I was about Bad food and Good TV record advertisements—all the
hoping you could ask your audience if they could help me find this Things. What fun. But now, I’m stumped. I don’t know what to do.
boy and also, do you think I should neck with people that I’m just I maybe ought to ask Ann Lan—wait. These people think this is the
friends with? Luv, A Devoted Readerette.” . Ann Landers column.

Here’s another example. “. . . And it was only a joke, but then _ Okay, here’s some advice: 1) Put out flyers in all the bathrooms
her parents called the police. And so now her parents aren’t ever and you’ll guarantee a response. Necking’s okay as long as you
going to let me back in the house, even after I offered to pay for a don’t kiss; 2) So it’s plumbing. If they can’t take a joke, ditch ’em;
new plumbing system. So what should I do? Sincerely, In the 3) I can’t figure out who’s a guy and who’s a girl, or whether they’re
Doghouse in Denver. P.S.—My parents don’t know about this if both guys or both girls, so all I can say is “Wing it,” hoping you have
that makes a difference.” . a better sense of gender than mine plus some moral/ethical values to

And one more: “. . . Finally, it all made sense to me. Pat and Lee figure out what’s Good and what’s Nice. At any rate, bona fide sin is
{not their real names] are more than just housemates. When I saw better than bush-league sin. Send ’em a Candygram and forget
the—well, feminine things around their apartment, I couldn’t play about it.
possum anymore. Ann, this is my dear precious child who is living Keep those letters coming. I think I’ve found a new format. It
in bona fide sin. What on earth should I do? Signed, Momma in would be nice, however, just to get one G & B letter.

Mobile. P.S.—Like your new format.” Next week: Spotlight on androgyny.
~ ae
College Press Service

Cnet

2 | ‘THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982
