Students Elect Johnston, Young
As SGA Leadership

In SGA elections March 23 Tim John-
ston defeated Chip Hurley 426-292 to
become the new president. In a runoff
the next day Boe Young beat Lentz Ivey
390-264 for vice-president. .

Both Johnston and Young said they
will spend the first few weeks getting
organized and appointing chairmen.
“There are alot of files to read,” Boe
said, OO

Johnston said the SGA will be re-
sponding to the EPC proposal to intro-
duce “minuses” to the grading system.
“We’re not going to be standing aside

and letting the proposal go through,” he
said. “It’s not a good thing.” The SGA
will also form committees to study the
careers office and self-selection.

In elections this week, for the first
time in memory there was an exact tie.
Ellen Papadeas and Elizabeth White
each polled 105 votes in the Tuesday ru-
noff for Sophomore senate. In yester-
day’s runoff, Ellen Papadeas. won. In
the same runoff the freshmen elected
Rod Holman president of the rising so-
phomore class, and Warren Gould to the
senate.

Ester Kim is the new junior class pres-
ident. Lanny Conley and Burt Taylor
were elected to the junior senate. The
new senior class senators are Sherburne
Laughlin, president, and Gray Hampton
and Chip Hurley.

The newly elected members of the
Honor Council are Reaves Robinson,
Laura Curry, Anne Hockett and Dave
Stosur from the senior class. Doug Am-
mar, Elizabeth Kelly, and Rob Spaugh
are the new junior honor council
members. The freshmen elected Joe
Bossong, Anne Miano, and Nancy Ros-

a

selot to next year’s Honor Council.

In campus-wide elections Kathleen
Huff and Hunter Monroe were elected
to the Student Conduct council, which
sets policy for honor code and code of

' responsibility proceedings. Denice Fer-
guson and Tom Schember are now on
the review board, which hears appeals
of honor code cases. Emily Davis and
Buncie Hay are the new members of the
council on campus and religious life.

Jeff Mann ‘84

SGA Discusses
EPC Grading

Proposals

“The game of Assassins that the

Union Games Committee was planning
to start on April Ist has been cancelled
because there have been many com-
plaints that such a game is not in-any
way constructive and is in many ways
destructive in Goa mote
things as violencednd*kifting:” > “.-
_ This announcement was posted on
campus last week, and is no doubt partly
the result of incidents at other campuses
across the country that have caused
great concern to administrators and stu-
dents alike.

While the 'Union Games Committee
tried! to organizethe simulated assassi-
nation gamie'as safely ‘as possible, many
people“ aré, conoeried' at the amount of
risk that would-be assassins and victims
face: 4 months ago, Michael Reagan (no
relation to the president we hope), a stu-
dent-at: California ‘State (allegedly tak-
ing part in an assassination game), was
_ shot twice'*bycampus security. officer
Stephen King, an 11-year veteran of the
force, when he mistook the toy gun that
Reagan was carrying for a real one.
Reagan, who was hospitalized in criti-
cal condition, is expected to recover
fuily.
_ “Officer King was patrolling the cam-

put on the night of the shooting,” recalls
Ca/ State Director of Public Affairs Bob

romotes such —

Breunig, “when he saw two people get-
ting out of a car, and cocking what ap-
peared to be shotguns.” When King told
the students to halt, Breunig says, Rea-
gan pointed his toy weapon at the offic-
er. King, unaware that the gun was a
toy, fired, hitting Reagan twice.
* Jeff Brick, head of Cal State campus,
police, contends King was blameless:
“It was dark and foggy, and they were
carrying replicas of M-16 semi-auto-
matic rifles, complete with scopes. The
officer had no way of knowing they
were toys.” . .
Another incident occurred at UCLA,
when. a band of painted savages mas-
querading as students playing Assass-
ings leapt out of some bushes at a police
officer who failed to return their fire. At
least 8 campuses have banned the game,
which is known as K.A.O.S. (for Kill-
ing As an Organized Sport), Killer,

Godfather, or just plain Assassin.

International Association of (Campus
Law Enforcement Administrators lead-
er James McGovern was “shocked” up-
on hearing of the Cal. State incident.

“You mean, they carry around: guns

and point them at each other? I would |

hope they knew better.”

Alessandro Vitelli (Alessandro is a
Rusk Scholar from London, England).

|

Assassins Game
Cancelled |

‘Wednesday night in the Union, the
1982-83 SGA Senators held their first
meeting. .

After swearing in ten new Senators in
his first action as SGA president, Tim
Johnston addréssed his attention to the
Educational Policies Committee’s pro-
posed addition of A-, B-, C-, and D- to
our grading system.

“There’s no, doubt GPAs will go
down,” junior Senator Mark Oldenburg
commented at the meeting. Most of the
representatives agreed that, although

. the néw. scale would conform to the

grading system in most law schools,
“not everyone is pre-law,” and the scale
would probably lower many peoph

‘averages. For instance, under our prv-
ent system, a B equals 3.0 points and a
B plus equals 3.5 points. The proposed
‘modification would give 2.7 points to a
B-, 3.0 points to a B, and 3.3 points toa
B plus. The relationship between nu-
merical and letter grades, as now,
would be: left to the individual profes-
sor’s judgement. According to Profes-
sor of Political Science Louis L. Ort-

mayer, professors need the flexibility in
rading that the new system would pro-
vide. They would particularly like to be

‘able to differentiate ‘hetween a low A
and a solid A. One compromise sug--

gested in Monday night’s meeting,
which was open to students, involved
the reinstating of the A plus, which has
not been used since the calendar was
changed from semesters ‘to trimesters.
Few colleges have 4.5 scales. -

Johnston, Vice-president Boe Young,
and the majority of the Senate agreed
that minus grades would lower most
people’s GPAs and so aggravate the al-
ready stiff coompetition in pre-profe-
sional departments. The SGA ended
their discussion by adopting a resolution
stating that they disapprove of any
change in the present scale. Senators
will visit their constituents this weekend
‘9 explain the issue and ask for support
and suggestions. Johnston welcomes
phone calls to his: office (ext. 147) or
room (6395). Many faculty members or
student EPC: members Todd Cowdery
and Bill Purcell will be happy to field
questions and hear opinions. After hear-
ing the SGA’s report, the EPC may vote
if they feel that they have heard all sug-
gestions. Otherwise, there could be
another open meeting in the next couple
of weeks. .

Diana Bohrer ’85

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982
