Features

A Separate Peace, Out at Sea

2 Student Directed Workshop Productions

The student-directed one-act’ plays
presented last week were A Separate
Peace -script by Tom Stoppard and di-
rected by John Verdi- and Out at Sea -
script by Slawomir Mrozek and directed
by David Barber.

The first drama performed was A Se-

parate Peace. The plot revolves around
Mr.Brown (played by Matthew Mer-
rell), who arrives in a town in provincial
England and, under the pretenses of it
being an emergency, calls the hospital
and obtains. a room for the night. When
he arrives the staff discovers that Mr.
Brown is not sick, but it is late at night
and the staff cannot find a way to justly
deny him the availble room. Mr. Brown
ends up staying for an extended time; he
doesn’t make excessive demands on the
staff and’he has enough money to pay,
but the other characters are continuous-
ly puzzled by Mr. Brown’s desire to
spend his time in a hospital. We find out
bout Mr. Brown through the efforts of
the doctor (Robert Moore),nurse (Sarah
Dysart), and matron (Laura Singleton)-
who use various methods to gain infor-
mation on him—and from what he di-
vulges to his usual nurse, Maggie Coats
(Ant Goode).
The acting was directed to be realis-

tic, and the set was also realistic with the
arena stage divided in two areas—the
hospital office and Mr. Brown’s room.
During the course of the play there are
quick changes between the areas as we
see the staff trying to investigate Mr.
Brown, and he trying to have a peaceful
hospital stay. There would seem to be a

pivotal tension that Stoppard wanted to
create—on one hand is Mr. Brown who ~
is looking for an ideal humanly separate —

peace, but on the other hand he must
spend his time somewhere, and the con-
ventions of the hospital must integrate
and make a manila file of him. Unfortu-
nately, the play as presented did not
seem to fully develop that tension. I
wondered how intently the hospital staff
was searching and to what extent they
were trying to oppose Mr. Brown’s
wish for separateness. The climax,
when the hospital staff identifies Mr.
Brown and notifies his relatives, seems

to lack real intensity. When he leaves _

the hospital it is not as striking a resolu-
tion of the conflict between his wishes
and the hospital office as it could be. —
One aspect which came over well was
the relationship—or fearful attempt at
understanding—between Mr. Brown
and Maggie Coates, the one trying to se-

parte himself and the other dependent
on knowing that she was part of some-
thing larger. *

‘Though there were difficulties, the
play was worthwhile and it was good to
bring Tom Stoppard’s drama to David-
son.

The second half of the evening was a
play of very different conventions. Out
at Sea flirts with the absurd and involves
three tuxedoed, affected, persnickety
men—Mr. Fat, Mr. Medium, and Mr.
Thin—floating at sea on a boat. The plot
is fairly simple. They run out of food
and decide that they must eat one of

‘ themselves. It follows that Mr. Thin is

the overwhelming—2 to 1—choice to
offer his carcass, but he doesn’t feel that
generous. To be fair, they conduct an
election, complete with campaign
speeches, arguments against killing or-

-phans (Misters Fat and Medium claim to

be, “and Mr. Thin receives a telegram
from the postman informing him that his
mother has died), and finally a plea to
Mr. Thin’s higher ideals of generosity.
Mr. Thin decides to nobly relent, and
the play ends when Mr. Fat tells Mr.
Medium to hide a can of beans he had
found because, can’t you see—he’s
happy the way he is and lights out.

The story is not common to our ever-
yday life, and the set was also abstract-
ed, but functional. There were basically
three places to-sit and one sea chest ar-
ranged diagonally on the floor. The lim-
itation of dramatic space were, not hard
and fast. The general non-realism of the
whole play meant that the audience did

‘not have to look for portentous turns of

normal events and did not expect certain
interactions.

Still, there was a challenge to set up a
coherent environment for the drama,
and Mr. Fat (Bill Kremer), Mr. Medium
(Philip Alter), and Mr. Thin (Doug
Vass), did a very fine job. They por-
trayed their characters very distinctly,
and I think that with the direction of
David Barber. they did a good job of
communicating the plight of Mr. Thin
and his gradual willingness to seize the
fate offered to him, and to ennoble it
with his personal belief in the fittingness
of allowing himself to be eaten.

For one evening of drama I and the
others in the audience were offered a
variety of ideas and presentations, and
also the occasion to éxercise our own
imaginations and vicarious feelings.

Tom Pafford

Mind Games.

On any given weekday, you can watch Davidson’s
most highly regarded team practice their sport. No, it’s
not football, not basketball, not field hockey. It’s our
College Bowl team,.and they conduct daily two hour
sessions simulating the game conditions of the Varsity
Sport of the Mind every afternoon over in the Union’s
Conference Room. And the team pressés on enthusias-
tically despite the absence of the crowds and attention
attracted by. Davidson’s more rough-and-tumble pur-
suits.

In this their ‘ ‘rebuilding” year, the College Bowl
team has thus far compiled a 20-4 record in inter-colle-
giate competition. (including practice matches): and
have- already qualified -for the.-National ‘Tournament
(and..a first-round bye) as.one:of 8 winners of Radio
Tournaments. The latter of these’ accomplishments:is
especially gratifying for the five team members (Brad
Mullis 83, Marvin Overby ’83, Gordon Turnbull ’83,
John Eglin ’84, and alternate Tim Woples ’85), for in
Beso for the a Mations! as det nanistiide and

BVI nl Bona’ / ‘Friday

Juniors.

. they have already accomplished something which last

year’s National runnerup team wasn’t able to do at a
similar point in their career. Indeed, Sponsor and Head
Coach Hansford Epes feels that this year’s team has an
excellent chance of making 1 the final eight teams-or ev-
en winning out right.

Dr. Epes, and associates Dr. Robert Maiainig aid
Mr. ‘Charles Lloyd, ‘chose the’ varsity team for quick-
ness and general aptitude for the game. father than be-
cause of a strength in any particular field of study.
Most of all Dr. Epes said, the team members must be
able to work together without conflict. Both John Eglin
and Marvin Overby have notéd thecloseness of feeling

among the team mémbers. “Our closéness sets us ‘apart -

from other teams,” Eglin said. “It’s a teal pavalitage
forus:”

‘This mutual support held the team’ in good stead’

this week-end as they experienced a disappointing loss
to Rice in Gainesville, Florida, 250-215. While not

___ Seeking to make excuses, Dr. Epes attributed th

Wimtidr oe ostes

“no point otherwise.” There a

5 February 1982

ow-par performance in part to “intangibles”-among
them a slower tempo in the reading of questions by the
game’s moderator. The team is looking beyond this
loss to ACUI Regionals on February 12-13 and then to
the Nationals, themselves, whose site and format are
yet to be determined.

Through all this, however, : our’ College Bowlers
keep the primary purpose of their sport firmly in mind:
having a good time’. Since they are all underclassmen,
they ‘feel less pressure to win it all this year and main-
tain a great enthusiasm forthe game. “If we’re no
longer having fun, we’ll quit,” Dr. Hes vor “There’s
s to be little danger
of that, and Davidson's g ways in the sport
which best displays our ‘iat stature re scholastically
seem assured for several ‘years yet.

Jeff Hamilton '82

BERBe Cok. to Se

