Freedom of the Airwaves ©

Response to 4/ 9/ 82 Editorial:

WDAV has made the Davidsonian again, not only
in-a news article but:as the subject of another Stewart
Cauley. editorial: The problem is: that Mr. Cauley
means well, but several erroneous assertions which he
makes just prove’ that he hasn’ t done his homework.

‘(My interest in WDAYV dates to my junior year: in
high school and was an important factor in my decision
to attend Davidson. I joined the student staff in the fall
of 1978, after the station had raised power from 10
watts to 18.5 kw, and walked out with the rest of the
student staff when the Trustees relieved the students of
programming and administrative duties. I rejoined the
~..taff as a paid classical announcer in March 1979,
served as anfiouncer-coordinator (chief. announcer)
from September 1979 to May 1980, and as Alternative
_ Music Director: from May 1980 to February 1981..

Along with several other students, I helped to plan and

implement the original alternative programming. in
April 1979. Further; though ‘now employed ‘by
WLVV-FM, I amstill a WDAV substitute announcer
and keep in close touch with key personnel. I offer all
this information about myself by way of saying that I
have more than a passing familiarity with WDAV’s re-
‘cent history and the way the station operates.)

Mr. Cauley’s opening paragraph seems to imply
that there is some connection between reduction of stu-
dent responsibility in 1978 and the recent program-
ming cutback. There isn’t. In 1978 the Trustees were
exercising their responsibility as holders of a federal
radio station license to alter the programming and ad-
ministrative organization to suit what they believed to
be,the public’s best interest. It is arguable that the Trus-
tees did not sufficiently consider students’ feelings in

making their decision; however, that is not.the issue

here. The latest programming change has nothing todo
with the Trustees; Station Manager John:Clark made
the decision after consulting many people, including
the student staff. Such a decision, by the way, is. well
within the purview of any station general manager or
program director, and Clark had offered a warning in a
Jseaaty mene Taek sonleaeanay Wee besomie aagee:
sary.

-Lihad foreseen the’ problem even before then, The

alternative Director (AMD) has a multi-faceted job: he/
a ee percredncs new alamne, piesssar api eh aud :

_ Shep in e Heh cine
: ANNE sae oti bettas:

Ee ete

lived up to my hopes—and, apparently, those of John
Clark. Therefore, if Flipsides and Jazzsides were to
continue, some sort of reorganization was inevitable.
Further, as Production Director. Jan Weller pointed
out, 11:00 is indeed a transition time in most people’s

- living patterns. A format switch at 11:00 does make a

bit more sense than one at 10:00. So the decision was
not based strictly or even mostly. on economics, con-
trary to what Mr. Cauley states.

Mr, Cauley also asserts that WDAV is “the e only re-
maining alternative. radio station in the state.” Not so;
there is at least one more. The University of North Ca-
rolina possesses. WXYC (89.1 FM), an entirely stu-
dent-staffed alternative-music station. It programs pre-
dominantly rock (including substantial amounts of new
wave) and also. features .jazz,. folk, :and bluegrass.

Though its effective radiated power is only 400 watts, I

have picked it up on at least one occasion here in Da-

-vidson.. Under normal circumstances it can generally

be received clearly within a 15-20-mile radius of the
UNC campus. OK, that doesn’t help us much, but it
makes a roadtrip to the Hill that much more attractive.
Mr. Cauley asserts further that “all other local sta-
tions are entirely commercial and‘automated.” Com-
mercial in what way? That they’ play commercials?
That their music is “commercial”? At least two high-
power local stations, Charlotte’s WFAE (91.5
and Rock Hill’s WNSC (88,9 FM) are noncommercial,

either way one wishes to define the term. And automat-_

ed? WLVV pays me to run machines, not to be.one,

When I am on the air, I’m very much alive. I'm sure —

other area disc jockeys feel the same way.
Mr. Cauley’ s most bizarre assertion, though, has to
do with radio in general, “The public does not choose

‘the music they want by buying it; rather, wealthy radio

executives cooperate with wealthy recording execu-
tives, and together they decide which songs will be
heard. These songs, the ones chosen by the executives,

. are the only ones heard and the’only ones bought. And

the executives always make safe, unobtrusive « choices-

—never g, never innovative, always a sure
pick for this artificial m 1SS-0 = I’m goi
‘with facts instead of sf 2s 39

Second, executives don’t decide which songs get
played on. individual stations.. Even at stations. pro-
grammed by consulting firms (and those are still a mi-
nority except for “beautiful music” stations, I believe),
prograrn directors and music directors are generally the
ones who still make most of the individual decisions.
Even schlock-rock wroQ, which runs the Burkhart-
Abrams. consulting group’s SuperStars (sic) format,

_ has seen fit to play Elvis Costello, Graham Parker, and
Jim Capaldi on occasion.

Third, if those allegedly pre-selected sqngi are “the
only ones bought,” why. do record stores often sell re-
spectable quantities of albums by “alternative” artists? .
In other words, where did the XTC and Gang of Four

albums on my shelf come from if I didn’t buy them?

And everyone has heard of one album or another that

‘sold a million copies with little or no airplay, little or no

company promotion, etc. Don’t knock the effective-

ness of word of mouth-—record companies certainly

don’t. ;

Fourth, as for those “safe, unobirusive choices” of
songs for.airplay: there is no such thing. Case in'point:
many people would conisider WLVV’s musical format
a perfect example of what Mr. Cauley is talking about.

.So, according to Mr. Cauley’s theory, since WLVV’s.

format is “guaranteed to be hits” by he record industry,
and since: WLVV is the only station in the Charlotte
market running that particular format, WLVV should
be leading the market and raking in money: I and ever-
yone else on the staff should be getting kingly wages.
In fact; WLVV has lost money since the day it went on
the air, and it was sold last week. (See the “Extra” sec-

“tion of the 9 April Charlotte Observer for details.)

Why? Because even today, there is still no accounting
for taste. And, contrary to what Mr. Cauley might

think, people do tend to express their tastes with their

wallets, just as businesses express the tastes of their
targetted potential customers by deciding with which
radio station they will spend their advertising dollars.

I personally am probably a good deal more upset.

than Mr. Cauley with John Clark’s decision, because

so much of my Davidson time has been invested in |

_WDAV’s alternative programming. I would have lik liked

Z had none at all than t hear sloppily assembled and

programs.
“Further, and’ in conclusion, WDAV's' progiam-

c- sing 1st « sabebe Wie aceon mabded aot tee

rd company in mae case 1s While I feel sonia

PAT i Mie Lay ae. a
bugs i aD ee .
pst f
€ “ A, 4
ee

