Film reviews with Debbie Ejisenbise.

Raging Bull

The French Lieutenant’s

Woman

The Rocky Horror
Picture Show

Pop Films has not left us without a_

recourse to studying during this exam
period, but is providing us with three
good cinamagraphic reasons to put the
books aside for a few hours.

On Friday (8:30 and 10:00 PM),
Robert DeNiro stars in the hard-hitting
drama, Raging Bull. Director Martin
Scorsese has created a film based on the
life of Jake LaMotta, a former middle-
weight boxing champ, that travels along
the emotion-packed “highlights” of his
life that plague him long after the thrill
of the fight is over. His once muscular
body turned to fat and his scar face tell a
story that harkens back to his former
“days of glory.” One might wonder if it
isn’t his “days of glory” as one has an in-

‘ring view of the blood. and pain of the
‘boxing match.

The film’s continuity is based on a
steady stream of violently tense and ex-
plosive situations. Outside of the box-
ing ring there is the arena of his relation-
ship with Vicki (Cathy Moriarty) and
with his brother / best friend Joey (Joe
Pesci). The psyche of LaMotta is bared
in his interactions with Vicki and Joey.
The overbearing jealousy that per-
meates many of these encounters is in-
teresting but never justified or ex-
plained. Many of the character’s out-
bursts never really make any sense on an
intellectual level but are gut-level feel-
ings / reactions that one sees coming
from deep within LaMotta’s person.

DeNiro’s Jake LaMotta is not an
outstanding hero-figure, but is por-
trayed by the actor as a man possessed

~ by his inner passions, his instincts of vi-
olent emotion.. DeNiro and the entire
cast portray characters who are lucid to
their inner selves in an honest, and even
somewhat heroic way.

A drama of a different genre comes

our way on Thursday the 13th at 8:30 /

and 10:00 in The French Lieutenant’ s

Woman.This is an excellent study of:

Victorian romance; the story of Sarah
Woodruff and Charles Smithson as por-
trayed by two present-day actors (Anna
— Meryl Streep and Mike — Jeremy
Irons). It is a movie within a movie that
captures the spirit of John Fowles’ work
that is. a nineteenth- century romance
writte from a later perspective. Howard
Pinter’s screenplay cleverly juxtaposes
Charles’ and Sarah’s restrained passion
with the casualness of Mike’s and An-
na’s affair offstage.

Meryl Streep and Jeremy Irons are

both to be congradulated for their wond-
erful portrayal of all four of the charac-
ters, and director Karel Reisz is to be
equaly praised for his ability to inter-
twine all of the action and yet keep one
engrossed in both romances.

The movie finally leaves one with

questions: about romantic love — if it is
not just somethings of a bygone era, or
if this fast-paced world of casual affairs
can have some passion of its own.

Pop Filmis believes in the adage —
“leave them laughing” — as on Satur-
day May 15 Rocky Horror Picture Show
comes to Davidson. For those of you
who have never had the “Rocky Horror”
experience, it is not to be missed. Any
movie that is advertised as “...the od-
dest, most off-the-wall cult film ever
made by anybody anywhere...a kinky
rock n’ roll science fiction horror satire
that is everybody’s favorite...” can’t be
all bad.

The Story begins when one dark and
dreary night two uptight youths Brad
and Janet, stumble unknowingly’ into
the castle of Frank N. Furter (Tim Cur-
ry), “a sweet transvestite from trangsex-
ual Transylvania.” Curry and the per-
verse cast lead Brad and Janet and the
audience away from reality into. a world
where anything goes, and it does. Se-
duction is the name of the game and it is
played by all. Riff Raff, Eddie, Rocky,
and the rest follow Frank N. Furter’s
lead in step and tune through an absurd
ballet of debauchery. No doubt you too
shall “give yourself over to total plea-
sure” since participation is a must for
enjoyment. Come to sing, laugh, and,
of course, to do “the time warp again.”

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982

13
