Unfair Rating of Davidson College.
in the Selective Buide to Colleges

It is commonly acknowledged that Davidson Col-
lege is the toughest and best institution for undergradu-
ate studies in the southern part of the United States: Da-
vidson:College is a combination of a strong teaching
faculty 90 percent of which are Ph.D. holders, an out-
standing student body 85 percent of which come from

the'top fifth of their high school classes and a rigorous

academic which can be compared to the Top
Ten Universities i in the United States... Admission to

Davidson i 1S not only an attraction:but also a cutthroat

competition to the applicants. who. must show high

scores of SAT and Achievement Test and fill our layers
of application: and recommendation forms which are
even more complicated than those of Harvard Univer-
sity, Academically strong as it is, Davidson College
fails to get the highest, rating in the Selective Guide to
Colleges complied by the i

whole the rating is unfair because the editor of the book
overrates public schools, those ‘universities whose
graduate schools are academically known but not un-
dergraduate ones, lacks consideration of the outcome
of education of colleges - the percentage of graduate
who go to graduate or professional: schools, and bears
prejudice against southern colleges. Being a private
and undergraduate institution situated in the deep
south, Davidson College is the victim of the unfair rat-

ing. ji just & qty ny
‘The jottuased reased reed out OF choiee of colleges poses

problems, How does a student sort out the hype from
the substance in the mountains of four-color brochures
with happy couples strolling hand in-hand by water-
falls? What is the difference between Harvard Univer-
sity and Princeton University, North Carolina Univer-
sity and Chapel Hill and Duke University. To solve
problems, New York Times singled out 265 of best and
most intyeresting four-year institutions throughout the
United States and wrote an essay on each of them on
the basis of the information from the questionaires in-
cluding telephone calls, essays by student newspaper
editors, articles and secondary research and campus
visits. The colleges are rated from one to five stars in
academics, social life and quality of life. It is fortunate
for Davidson to have received three stars for social life
and four stars for quality of life but unfortunate to have
received only four stars for academics. _.

The New York Times overrates public schools and
underrates private ones. Public schools like University
of Texas-Austin ‘and North Caroling University at
Chapel Hill are offered five stars for academics though
they are not as good as their private counterparts in the
South. Small wonder that only 23 private schools re-

lew, York Times. On the .

ceived five stars throughout the United States. The
book Selective Guide to Colleges says: “Although the
same basic criteria have been applied to all institutions
an effort has been made to sharpen the academic dis-
tinsctions between institutions within public and pri-
vate sectore. Thus a few of the outstanding public uni-
versities — those with ratings of four or five — might
“have received slightly lower ratings if they are com-
pared with their leadeing private counterparts.” For in-
stance, University of Texas-Austin which is perhaps
well-known for its low educational cost but not for its
academics for undergraduate studies -is rated even
higher than Duke University. Which is better? The rate
of enrollment provides the answer. Each year only
1,600 out of 8,100 applicants are enrolled by Duke
University, but 5,800 out of 12,900 applicants are en-
rolled by University of Texas-Austin. ‘The striking
contrast in the rate of enrollment between the two uni-
versities reveals that private schools like Duke are dis-
favored in the rating. The same is true of Davidson
College which has competitive enrollment but is un-
fairly rated. Many Texans would rather go to Duke and

Davidson than to Texas-Austin although Duke and Da- .

vidson are more expensive than Texas-Austin. The
New York Times gives.a favorable treatment to Univer-

sity of Texas-Austin only because it is a public school.

The rating is not based on the quality of undergrad-
uate studies but graduate studies. The purpose of Selec-
tive Guide to Colleges is to help high school graduates
select colleges and the emphasis should be put on the
undergraduate colleges but not graduate schools. It is

iT. CONCLUDE S-

f MY SEMINAR. - REACTORS: HAS A MELTDOWN WHEN Z SAID, ‘We
ITH
AM me AND ENDS ALL LIFE A$ WE KNOW Casts Lose Mini»
“TAIT. ON EARTH, WHO's GOING TO
fama _| BE AROWD 10 5U6. THE HELL Z
aa _ | QUT. OF You 2 ENeRoy ss 1 =
{ i ee " neponh NUCLEAR
—— ane  gueney
_ etaee eAiNAR
Semunnt

’. Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84

“AS SOON. P65 ONE OF YOUR

disheartening that Davidson College is rated under
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Certain research depart-
ment and research facilities at NC which are nationally

__ known do not represent that the undergraduate educa-

tion at NC is good. Owing to the overwhelming student
body there, the size of classes is relatively unlimited
and the contact between professors and students is rela-
tively limited. Besides, many professors are engaged
in research of some kind and are sometimes substituted
by graduate students in conducting classes and semi-

~ nars. The chancellor at NC reports:“In hiring new fac-

ulty the edge is fiven to envidence or research capabili-
ty.” The undergraduate students notice an emphasis on
research and graduate students at the expenses of them-
selves. That is why many southern applicants prefer
Davidson to NC. It is agreed that most of Davidson stu-

| _ dents could have been accepted by NC if they had app-
_ lied according to their qualifications. Actually some

Davidson students did apply and were offered admis-
sion and inviting scholarships by NC before they came
to Davidson. But they turnéd down the offer and came

. to what they thought the best institution for undergrad-

uate studies — Davidson College. However, the eva-
Juation of undergraduate colleges in Selective Guide to
Colleges is affected by the reputation of graduate
schools which Davidson does not have.

The comparison of outcome of education in col-
leges is an important factor to the academic program
which the New York Times fails to include. It is amaz-
ing that 75 percent of Davidson graduates go to profes-
sional schools. No wonder that Davidson ranks fifth
among liberal arts colleges in the number of Rhodes
Scholarships, first among colleges in the Southeast in
students receiving Woodrow Wilson Fellowships and
Marshall Scholarships, and high nationally in Dan-
forth, Thomas J. Watson, Rockefeller and other
awards. However, there are many more than five liber-
al arts colleges in the North which received five stars in
academics in the Selective Guide to Colleges. This not
only reflects The New York Times’ inconsideration of
the outcome of education of Davidson but also the
northerner’s prejudice. It is not surprising that no pri-

- vate school below the Mason-Dixon line rated above

four stars.

So if Davidson College wants to.be rated higher, it
should become a public school, establish a graduate
school and move to the North. Otherwise, it may re-
ceive the same and unfair treatment of rating next year.

Yu Chienwen ‘85 (Chienwen is an international stu-

dent from the People‘s Republic of China)

iS WAT TM ray

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982 ~
