West Virginia Bo-ho

I spent a few days last summer in Berkeley , California,
perhaps America’s most highly acclaimed den of iniq-
wity. It was at this point of an 8,000 mile, five week
‘round country. trip-that I decided to roll my Woodie
Guthrie, Hunter S. Thomson, and James Dean fanta-

_ Sies all into one. This is about that.
I set out one morning down one of those hills for

which the San Francisco area is so famous: Dressed in |

fatigues, carrying my guitar and copies of The Koran,
One Hundred Years of Solitude; and Tristram Shandy.

I felt I had as good a p.r. potential as I could hope for in
muy descent into the world of counter culture. .

Not being terribly excited about the idea of drag-
ging a sixteen pound guitar all the way down Telegraph
Street to my projected place of street-musicianship, I
started walking backwards down the hill, thumb raiséd
existentially.

‘Something told me that thumbiitg a ride in Berke-
ley would be easy, and I wasn’t far off. But my chauf-
fer was more than I was really prepared for. A Volvo
careened. madly onto the. sidewalk where I was, and

was narrowly missed by the maniac that had been bear-

ing down behind it. Naturally, there was so much stuff
in this lady’s car that there wasn’t even room for me,

much less a six-string extension of my personality. But —
we managed, and when I said that I was glad that the -

nut behind her hadn’t cleft her in twain she related that

she hadn’t dug him in her mirror, so it didn’t put her.
-five, in In- -

through any changes. She was about thirty
dian print skirt, black leotard, and those little soft black

shoes that folk dancers wear. Apparently she hadcome | :
out for the Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test and:to catch the

Jefferson Airplane at the Fillmore East, and somehow
lasted to see U.C. become a prep school for corporate
America:

My fuzzy friend let me out in front of Rasputin’s
record store, advising me to really get into my Berke-
ley experience.’ After assurring her that I would, I
looked for a place to set out my open guitar case and
sing da bles, The sidewalks there are about twelve
feet wide, to accommodate all the vendors, bagel sell-
ers, prophets of doom, and whoever else needs space. I
chose a spot between two.guys who were ‘doing a pretty
brisk trade in leather masks and two women selling the
ever popular hand-tooled belt buckles. These types of
psychedelic craftspersons manage quite. well.in Berke-
ley. I think the computer analysts and marketing/man-
agement trainees that attend the university these-days
are willing to. support those gentle unwashed who are
keeping Gonzo alive and well in Berkeley so that the
executive generation won’t have to. As I thought these
thoughts, I noticed that the nickels and dimes weren’t

exactly pouring in, People’ were:friendly enough and
- some stopped to listen, but if became apparent before ©
long that most felt that if they were: going to Support the. |

organic crowd, they were‘at least going to’ ‘get some-

thing material for their expense (Oh. man, you won’ sce

believe this outrageous thing: I found in Berkeley”). ”
Well, I was starting to feel pretty Jack Kerouacish
when this long, ¢

ally int potans came lat

platforin shoes, ‘iis nant neliy bias not *

_ to mention a. patently unfeminine distribution of —

bulges. My bohemian princess laughed and strolled

on, but she was good for 8¢. So Lured my attention to
_ the beard and dress. Well, this newly arrived vision of -

androgeny was about the most enthusiastic fan I'was to
have all-day. He danced, clapped, beat rhythm (more
of less) with a rock in a coke bottle, and sang in broken
syllables, some of which reminded me of the last expe-

rience I had with a bottle of Red Rocket. He was ac- °

companied by a small male child of about four, who

wore nothing except the rubber band that held his hair -

in what would have been a pony tail except that it point-
ed straight up. I never heard the kid'say anything, but
he seemed happy enough: He was probably getting
more parental, (or whatever) attention than the average
modern suburban moppet does anyway. The older of

these two also pushed a shopping cart which held, be- -

sides some miscellaneous junk, several plums. He put
oné of these in my guitar case, I thanked him and he
shot me a bird, laughed, and left. I was later told that he
is locally known as the hate (or haight) man.

As the day wore on, I actually collected enough
pennies, nickels, dimes, plums, tracts, and.calling

~ arts to Cover the price ofa ticket to see the Jerry Gar-
cia Band that night. T figured this sort of | hand-to-mou~

.thism was certainly commensurate with my lonesome

rambler-type. intention. So’ I. went down to. the Keys-
tone Theater on University Avenue where I met the real
gone woolly boogers I was. after. The first guy that

. caught my eye seemed like he might have come down
‘one time too ‘hard or too many. His hair hung greasily

in his weird eyes, and -he kept-running his fingers

: through | it like he was looking for unwelcome tenants.
' Since swaying burn outs are nothing new, my attention.

was drawn to a boy no older than fifteen, who was saw-
ing out exquisite arrangements of old Grateful Dead
songs on a cello, Between the niusic,. stickers,
tee shirts and general principles (primarily $8.50 a
piece), everyone there was doing his own homage to
the great Garcia, the Patron Saint of Long Haits, whom
we had gathiered to see. T don’ Tehink aaypn was disap-
pointed.

. -Tdidn’t finish The Koran; but it was a day to re-
meter, in a mauve and prem sort: of warm beery
way.

John Hartman .

> photo by Eric Long ‘83 - 5

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 8 January 1982
