& SS

Att iis Giger i. tags |

and Slimshafts have retumed to evaluate what may fi-
nally be Spring term. It is now officially time to take
once again, as we: look at the
nearest coed’s legs and study that relief map.

Well, it isitime once again for that sacred Davidson
tradition ng F « AS everyone must
know by ne reekend ‘begins with the oft-ma-
ligned ouidage oncert behind the baseball field. As an

added attraction this year harpoons will be given to the
first two hundre + to enter the concert in order to
ae ie Our illustrious leader

about the decision i og Spencer answered, “We
can’t have a crowd of half-naked people running
around in shorts and bathing suits, while Rusk House
will be involved in-more very long films about Johnny
Holmes.” In direct reaction to the administration, mo-
reover, C. K. Nichols, Jerome Hay, and Susan Roberts
have gone to Washington to picket Sam’s move. Hope-
fully a court-injunction can be gained to: prevent the
concert from being ruined. Before we turn our atten-
tion to another provocative subject, we must quickly
glance at Friday night’s activities. The SPEs will hold
their First Annual Peach Suck which is the fraternity’s
idea of bobbing for apples. As usual the KAs, Pikas,
and SAEs will keep various bus lines and airlines in

DB & S dance a jig and “get off” for this-weekend’s
Spring Frolics

business with the arrival of their dates. By the same
token Rusk House is sponsoring an interesting raffle
this spring in conjunction with Spring Frolics. The
winner of the raffle is not required to stay with his date
at the Radisson in Charlotte. All other entrees will be
forced to spend the night with their dates.

This weekend also brings back a number of memo-
ries to those Davidson students who had been at pre-
vious Spring Frolics. weekends. Campus. security has
required Davidson’s Dwayne Lett to wear handcuffs to
the concert to avoid assault charges in 1982. Also, Bar-
ry Prine is being flown into Davidson where he will
wallow just in front of the : stage and yell “Roll Tide” for

over three hours. Noticeably missing from this year’s _

concert will be Sam Outten and Jane Alexanian who
will spend the weekend at Sam’s beach house at Hilton
Head. Obviously, Sam would never spend a “big”
weekend with a Davidson girl.

Moving from the subject of Spring Frolics to a .

more mundane topic, we here at DB:& SS want to sa-

* -Jute the newly named. members of Phi Beta Kappa at

Davidson. This year’s list includes a who’s who list of
Davidson enigmas that deserve recognition. Eric Sor-

enson has disproved the Davidson stereotype that all

athletes here at school are morons. It should be noted
that Davidson football captain Jeff Kane is in the same

‘mold as Eric and is well on his way to Phi Beta Kappa
. -himself..Along the same lines Davidson golfer Moffat
‘McDonald was among those recognized by this year’s

list. Mott merely commented “People have always
considered me a stupid fool, but I guess I showed them
that I have some sense, too.”

With all the emphasis on Spring Frolics this :wee-
kend, the Union is sponsoring a midnight movie in
Love Auditorium entitled “The Many Faces of Mike
Goode.” The film is based on the turbulent life of
Union President Mike Goode who has gone from radi-
cal liberal in September to Shaw’s best friend. In keep-
ing with the motif of the College Union, Mike is spon-
soring a series of films about Davidson Phi Beta Kappa
member Albert Nester entitled, “The B-52’s and a 3.95
GPA.” The film was sponsored by Rolling Stone Mag-
azine and the King Biscuit Flower Hour.

Speaking of Faces in the Crowd . . . have you no-
ticed that ex-Davidson football captain Mickey Dillon
behind the Union Café counter? When asked about his

- new employment Mickey responded, “I don’t really

need the money. I just love to help people and if.a
cream cheese bagel can help people, I’H stick with it.”
By the way, DB & SS would like to thank the gracious
editors of the Davidsonian for allowing our column.to

- appear and hopefully will be back in the somewhat néar

future.

Editor: Stewart Cauley

Executive Editor: Brian. Butler

News Editor; John Richards
- Assistant News Editor: David Resnik
Associate News Editor Jeff Mann
Opinions Editor: Danny Armistead
Calendar Editor: Susan Graves

Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin

Photography. Staff;. Randy. Stroud, Kelly ri oa
Anderson Scott, Mark sebibiies

Ee re a eRe Ried

16.

DAVIDSONIAN

The eekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Production: Lisa Boardman, Jeff Herrin, Ann Meador
John Lusk , James Rozzelle

Staff: Andy Wilson, John Hartman, John Glance, John
Verdi, Jeff Holland, Dianna Bohrer, Peter:€
Alessandro Vitelli, Debbie Eisenbise,, orelei
Jeff Hamilton, Matt Merrill - ane

Foreign Correspondent: Andy Miller
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss
Advertising Manager: Karis Hernstein

New Blood: Sam the Nevaho

tions cost $10 per year. Advertising available on
request. Second class postege no. 148.300 1.

Te

Saturnalia, the second annual fresh-
‘man-sophmore romp, is scheduled for
2:00 pm until sunset at the lake campus.
on April 24. The party provides food
(for a meal-card mark-off or $3. 10) and
beer (35¢ a cup) as well as games (vol-
leyball, softball, etc.), music (Charlie-

_ Summers plans to play a variety of re-
cords on the Union stereo), and “all
sorts of things.” Promises to be an al-
most Bachanalian rush.

i ‘ bes

AON GAO AAS

AILIM[A MME ITIRIE MME [M|T|TIS.
WIEIEID MNT IHIEIN MF Jo|C|AIL,
BIATRIOJQJUIEMMAIRITITIC|LIE]
O[RICMMUIRINMNTIAIOMMOLIE|
(NYIERBLINIATHIUIE/FRLJE|T]
EISIS|EINMMMMEIRIEICITIO[RIS|

ISITIA|MIMIE|RIEIR)

WITISETIEIRI TA RMEN TYIMTP TH)
HIOFTMMESIE|NINJEITITMMIRIA|
O[DIAMM SINIDMM TIHIEMMSIAIL|
OlAITIMIELAILIMHIEIRIE!T|1IC)
{SI TIETE|NMMEIGLAINMMALEIRIY,
THIEL LI I/CMmmSTYINI CMM TIA
[slYINiEMmSIMELE!

