Booze Brothers

Homecoming atime for a time for inspired travels

Homecoming is the spirit the Booze Brothers live
for. No doubt there were party adventures on Patterson
Court and in Charlotte that we missed but every choice

negates an infinite number of alternatives, we all have .

to live with it. So Saturday eveing the B.B. took advan-

tage of a special mood by exploring our own campus- "

backyard. It was a mood turned perspective that happi-
ly presented the mundane as extrordinary. You see, as
it is with Homecoming, we unsuspectingly ran across a
friend we hadn’t seen in a while. This is an individual
who often startles the most liberal of thinkers with in-
terpretations beyond expectation. She shared with us
her freedom of thought, free of “givens” and “of
courses.” Attentively our minds were on something
else.

Walking back into town on Main St. we skipped
through the cemetary monuments that those who, hav-
ing had theirs, have left to encourage we, who are get-
ting ours.

In town, a block or so down Depot St., we took a mo-
ment, or was it an hour, to sit on the curb and agree that
rythm is a human quality worthy of personal develop-
ment by virtue of its universality.

But some poor liquid loser was already puking his
guts out in the curb by the Depot St. Public Parking lot.
Very distracting! We moved on with purposeless deter-
mination by DCPC’s front doors from behind which
we sensed a “happening”. Right thru the doors we
soared into a pipe-organ rendition of our souls. If there
is a Phantom in Notre Dame lurking for the opportunity
to seize emotion out of the throats of the unsuspecting
he hasn’t got anything on the cat that blew the pipe riffs
that night in DCPC. We hope to do this, in particular,
again. But there is only so much melody manipulation
our psyches can stand and so we go.

Twice as intent and half as decisive; out, along, up,
by, thru, and pass until, exausted by the meaning of it
all, we entered Hobart Park.

In the hollow, on a bench, you can “see” the terf un-
dercover by the sounds that shimmer on the light shafts
webbing amongst the leaves and: branches. The small
creek by which someone splashes, the shill murmers of
whiskered night play. All incandesced within the
cricket green chirps of consistant dark. Here the light
vibrates on the wind while the fauna is still.

Oh yeah, but we’re on the move, in a groove. Down
the blinding yellow-orange strob-light lined dance-
floor run-way we pause to appreciate that the entire
college is having a party for our fun. A practice field
bay is teasing for the ripples of our violating its tran-
quility. A moment to enjoy it as a whole serves to ex-.
cite us about the plunge. The praire-meadow peels off
our shoes and sucks our toes. Intricate bleacher sculp-
tures of dark horizontal and perpendicular line sweep
left as shoulder-level headlights of passing cars pulsate

across. A clump of trees between us and a street light
broadcasts pipes of light. Air avenues designed for
brass concertos. -

The 3-tier grass garden settles us down to the soccer
field where balls laced into nets hang about cloth-line
supports for play. The grace of the soccerball—planets
as they swoop, rise, dip, and fly on undetermined paths
of orbit.

And again, the garden tilts downward to the glada-
torial arena. Here at the Bottom, where irrigation set-
tles and little breeze brings less light we are obliged to
our gardner host to likewise settle out waters. Turning,
we face a broad, dark, arduous bank crowned in a nar-
row hallo by some distant light. The ridge is staged
with silouette images of scoreboard and flanking ta-
bles. The scene cannot be mistaken. It is the haven of
Terror Himself. We waited in anticipation of His quali-
ty. Cloaked as a void He would appear standing before
the backlight. He will notspeak nor move suddenly but
scream with audacity. We wait in the smear of light
that passes around his image for His will to extend arm
aside and, bringing it forward, wipe us away in the
shaddow that His cloaksleeve mows across our field
and selves. But, no show. No shaddow. And no
screams. So best we can do is march up to his summit
to see.

We are becoming, it would seem, closer to the heart
of Saturday night as we discovered a deficiency. We
wanted tunes, jams, Man, audio of the high decible
variety. There was but one direction the B.B. could
trust to turn toward. And so, not ending, but only sub-
merging, our Spirit of Homecoming took us by the
hand and landed us safely on the Duke Terrace of Billy
Mac where musical sound is found and no one is turned
away. As for our friend we never even got a chance to
thank her.

wt’ve Found HIS,
Um... HEAD, LT.

Lop! ‘Ve BEES
A cop FIPTEBN YEARS
Awd I'VE NEVER
SEE ANYTHING LIKE
THis, OM, U'VE stew
oer StAYAGS, BUT
PME 50... Gascy,

1 Keow. He's ...7

“4S AFRIBHD. HIS

500), ADAM, WALKED
uP wre IT,

QUEST’S END . «.:.-.

——~, HEY, LT. THE up's
“| BEST FRIEND WADTT

HOW'S THE KID
HOLD’ ve 2

snovLd HE
BE POLDING ve?

Good Point.

oo) Skate CS

14

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 October 1982
