Development

Continued from page |

rently houses the campus security office -

and the Director of the Physical Plant.
In addition to these major projects
The structure was recently determined
to have been built before 1850. Renova-
tions may end up costing several tens of
there is an ongoing effort to convert the
College campus to a pedestrian campus.
Roads would surround only the perime-
ter of the campus and new walks and im-
proved paths would criss-cross’ the
grounds. Also, the College hopes to re-
place old tar surface sidewalks with

more attractive and permanent brick —

walkways. ‘

These are just the first steps in a
larger program of expansion and reno-
vation. Included in the 1987 Program
are plans to expand Davidson’s athletic
facilities. Johnston Gymnasium, : built
over thirty years ago for a student body
61% of the current enrollment is insuffi-
cient for Davidson’s needs. The swim
team voted this year.to dissolve itself
partly because the pool beneath the gym
is inadequate for. their training...

Vice-President for Development
Jack Powers hopes to:be able to fund a
new sports center equipped with a gym-
nasium, swimming pool, improved rac-
quetball / squash_/ handball courts, and
more facilities for women’s athletics.
Since Johnston gym was built before co-
education, there is a dearth of accomo-
dations for women’s athletics..

Dr. Powers said Johnston Gym
would be devoted to academic use. A
number of proposals (from large lecture
halls, to art galleries, to an auditorium)
have been offered for the upper floors.
The lower floor would ease the demands
on the twenty-one year old Cunningham

Fine Arts Building for art studio space.

If a new sports center is not built, then
Dr. Powers hopes to at least renovate

the Gym and build a new visual arts fa-
cilities.

The College also hopes to construct
a new building for the maintenance de-
partment. The staff currently works out
of a dilapidated building originally de-
signed for temporary usage. The build-
ing lacks adequate space, lighting, and
decent flooring.

The Development Office has plans
for the college-owned Post Office build-
ing. The overcrowded Bookstore will
move to the Post Office building in
order get students into downtown Da-
vidson more often, and also to provide
more visibility for the Bookstore. The

Post Office will move to a site behind - .

Main Street.
The key ingredient behind these

plans is money. The original proposals
in the 1987 program allowed $6 million
for construction. Inflation has affected
these estimates considerably. For exam-
ple, the initial allocation for the renova-
tion of the Martin Science Building was
$700,000. The final cost was $1 mil-
lion. The Commons originally estimat-
ed at $600,000 in 1976 came in at $3.6
million. Two dorms cost a million dol-
lars each for a total of almost $6 million.

Dr. Powers and the Development
Office have already raised $24 million
out of a goal $35 million. He hopes to
raise as much as $50 million, however.

\

Jon Clark, WDAV

station manager

WDAV

Continued from page |
all about... They thought it was the same
as commercial radio.” But, he says,
“the students did an excellent job” of
showing alternative radio’s value and
substance. ;

The question Clark had to ask in mak-
ing his decision was not whether or not
the music was valuable, but “Can we, as
a small station, do two formats in one
broadcast day?” The classical music lis-
teners and the new wave/jazz listeners
essentially compose two different au-
diences. In order to program for them,
two different staffs are needed; the
classical programming is done by prof-
fessional full-time staff and the alterna-
tive by part-time students. Clark, as Sta-
tion Manager, is responsible for “over-
all quality.”

The classical nlisteners are by far the
more affluent of the two audiences, as
well as the most willing toi make dona-
tions. Of WDAV’s $151,000 budget for
this year, one third is paid by the college
and the rest is donated. Despite the col-
lege’s significant financial interest in

the-station;'Clark felt “no real pressure:

from the college to dump Flipsides.”
Glance and the. other disc jockeys
asked for support over the airwaves in

¢
yy i

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982

Photo by Eric Long *83

the form of donations and letters. To
date 58 letters and $180 have been re-
cieved. Obviously, financial feasability
was not one of the factors favoring the

_ retention of alternative radio.

“What swayed me,” says Clark, “was
the kind of support that was demonstrat-
ed.” Several of the 58 letters were em-
phatically apreciative of the service, but
unable to pay for it. “Public radio is
committed to doing things that some
people want toi hear but can’t hear else-
where. Here we have something both
unique and in demand.”

Clark decided to cut an hour per day
from alternative programming because
10 o’clock is a prime hour for classical
listeners (the major financial suppor-
ters) to tune in, and a quick switch at 10
pm from Stravinsky to the Sex Pistols
may be a bit shocking. Says Production
Director Jan Weller, “eleven o’clock is
more of a change in peoples’ lives.”

As far as changes in the programming
itself go, Clark wants to see “a more fo-
cussed format,” and “less random, or
singfle person programming deci-
sions.” Jonathan Glance has written an
outline for improvements, and plans to
“drop the guise of folk programming,”
and “tighten quality control,” which
means they will play only new and old
music no other station in the area plays.
There will also be weekly meetings of
the alternative disc jockeys to discuss
the past week’s records and to point out
which ones “aren’t good,” or are “too
commei‘cial.”

Clark feels that from the questioning
of alternative radio has arisen “a posi-
tive impetus to improve” and “a re-
newed interest on the part of all those in-
volved.”

Of the surrounding college-funded
stations, only Clemson’s WBSF broad-
castsnew wave. WBSF is student run
and plays alternative rock, reggae, etc.
all day except for a 5-7 pm slot of jazz.
WFDD of Wake Forest is-a profession-
ally-run college-funded station that also
employs student'disejockeys for an al-
ternative program, but they discon-
tinued all new-wave on January | of this
year. Says station manager Pat Craw-
ford, “Jazz is more in keeping withour
format and could be enjoyed by class-
ical listeners as well. We wanted to keep
a somewhat consistent audience.” They
also use Radio Drama from ten to elev-
en as a sort of “buffer zone” between
classical and jazz.

UNCC’s WFAE and Duke’s WDBS
also broadcast jazz and classical but no
rock.

| Brian Butler ‘84
