THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXil, Number 3

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday, 8 October 1982

SPC Considers
Semester Plan

Semester Planning Committee
receives mixedreactions _

The Semester Planning Commit-
tee’s proposal has received mixed reac-
tions from both faculty and students.

When the issue of changing our ca-
lendar to a semester schedule emerged
five years ago, Professor David Kay-
lor’s informal poll revealed a 50-50 split
among the faculty. A recent Davidson-
ian poll (see related article) showed that
55% of the students like the current sys-
tem, while 45% prefer another.

Even though there is considerable
interest in adopting a new system, Se-
mester Planning Committee Chairman
Sam Maloney believes this will not hap-
pen. “Given our faculty’s track record
of voting down major issues,” says Dr.
Maloney, “You [those in opposition to a
change] have nothing to fear.”

“I’m in favor of the semester sys-
tem,” says Maloney, adding, “The na-
tional movement is toward the semester
system.”

A change would align Davidson
with most schools. A survey of 2,472
universities compled by C. James
Quann and Associates shows that out of
six calendar categories, 48% of the in-
stitutions use the Early Semester Sys-
tem (the system the SPC has proposed).

Sociology professor Dr. Peter Ven-
turelli also favors the semester plan,
claiming that the current schedule of
five-day-a-week classes “is very high
schoolish” and that under the semester
system students become “more mature”
by relying on their “independent initia-
tive.”

Chemistry department Chairman
and Associate Dean of the Faculty J. N.
Burnett prefers the current schedule.
“I’m opposed to any version of the se-
mester system,” says Burnett, “until we
say what’s wrong with the current sys-
tem.”

Due to limited lab and studio space,
the Chemistry, Biology, Psychology,
Physics, and Art departments would
have unusual difficulty making: the
switch to semesters. “We’ve spent the
last ten years adapting to the*term sys-
tem,” says Burnett. “We'd have to rede-
sign all of our classes.”

Registrar Richard C. Burts says he
is also a “resister to the semester propos-
al,” even though it would reduce regis-
tration periods to two per year. The Re-
gistrar’s office has recently hooked up
with the computer system, which would
make transition by next year very diffi-
cult, according to Burts.

Burts admits that there is “nothing
inherently wrong with the semester sys-
tem.” He simply resists the change.
Burts says that it took six years to estab-
lish.a “consistent pattern” after a switch
from semesters to the current term sys-
tem, and he is “reluctant to see that kind
of transition take place again.”

Others, like Political Science pro-
fessor Mary Thornberry, feel that the
benefits outweigh the pains of transi-
tion. She believes a semester system

Continuedonpage 9

SPC Releases Report

The Semester Planning Committee
has released its report on the possible
adoption of a semester schedule approp-
riate for Davidson College. .

The Committee held an open meet-
ing for faculty on 5 October and an open
meeting for the students on 6 October.
The SPC will officially present its prop-
osal at the 19 October faculty meeting.

College President Sam Spencer ap-
pointed the SPC last May to study the
issue after a poll conducted by Dr. Ri-
chard Bernard found that a majority of
the faculty would like to examine the se-
mester system. The Committee has met
eight times since then.

Religion Professor Dr. Sam Malo-
ney is the chairman of the SPC, and its
members include professors Bernard,
Jean Cornell, Hansford Epes, Peter
Krentz, Mary Thornberry, and John
Williamson.

Davidson adopted its current term
system ‘n 1969 after more than one

l

hundred years of semesters. The SPC
belives that Davidson can switch back
to semesters by the 1983-84 school
year, even though the system would not
be fully operative until 1987.

The faculty, upon consulting stu-
dents, President Spencer, and the Board
of Trustees, must all approve the prop-
osal before it becomes effective.

The following is a summary of
SPC’s proposal and suggested calendar:

1. Each semester will be 15 weeks, 14
weeks of classes plus one of exams.

2. Classes will meet Monday-
Wednesday-Friday for 50 minutes, or
Tuesday-Thursday for 75 minutes, or
MTWITF.

3. The graduation requirement will be
32 courses.

4. The “normal” teaching load will
be 5 courses per year.

5. The “normal” student course load
will be 4 courses per semester.

Continuedon page Q
