Bow Wow Wow

The Last of the Mohicans

Let’s face it.. The first thing you
notice about. this record is the
cover—an attful. recreation of
Edouard Manet’s “Dejeuner sur
l’Herbe,” featuring the undraped An-
nabella and the. other members of the
band in poses from the painting. This
cover is indicative of the humor to be
found in the EP, the new four song re-
lease from this Blitz dance band.
While the record breaks little new
ground from their debut LP, it is a sol-
id release whieh suffers mainly from
its brevity.

The EP opens with the most im-.

mediately appealing of its songs,
which not coincidentaly is the single
release—this is the cover of the class-
ic pop song from the Strangeloves en-
titled “I Want Candy.” This song is
roughly a cross between Bo Diddley,
a jungle chant and a football cheer. As
performed by Bow Wow Wow, it fea-
tures a screaming guitar underpinned
by an awesome bass and drum break-
down. Annabella’s voice is perfect
for this light pop ditty; she is the

Record_reviews with Jon Glance

idealized nymphet proclaiming her

love for her boyfriend and demanding

““T want candy!” This release might

just give them the wide-spread expo-
sure they now lack.

The other songs from the record
are sexual sagas possessing a darker
innocence: One song, “Louis Qua-
torze,” opens with the wonderful line
“I love it when he says so seriously /
With his gun in my back ‘Honey, /
Close your eyes and think of Eng-
land.”” The other songs (“Cowboy”
and “Mile High:Club”) are fiercely
thythmic tales of sophisticated teen-
age lust. To separate their tone from
“I Want Candy,” these three tunes are
somewhat murkier, with Annabella’s

rapidly maturing voice floating over a

wave of guitar and drum. The re-

cord’s production is superior to their

debut album in the spaciousness of

~the sound and the self-assured playing
which was at times lacking from their

earlier release.
Overall, The Last of the Mohicans

' iS a respectable addition to the music

proviously released by this extremely
young band. The major fault is that
with only two songs on each side, you
have to get up and turn the record over
every: six or seven: minutes. That
shouldn’t be too much of a problem,
though, since you'll probably be
standing up dancing anyway.

Continued from page 10

headed, until recently, by a member of the ‘ 14 fa-
milies.’(p.13)

Zaid ‘further suggests that the conflict i is not between

the masses and the elites, but rather among elites who

can’t agree on how to treat the imiasses. Responsible for ~

the crisis are those leaders who can’t agree on how and
who should rule, but agree on using violence to force

consensus. ‘Zaid argues that violence however cannot —
create consensus, nor legitimacy, but only polarization.

and political vacuum in the long run. Violence from

two Sides Creates popular abstention—to side with any-

ofie in a civil war can cause you to lose your life when

the next bunch.comes through. Ina civil war, it is the

penend poets Stee Se FORT:

De i litical idealis S
bunking these myths s hardly po mi,

‘though Beck charges the “and other groups ~.

. idealism. Actually, the Coalition supports what I seeas

a more and more realistic political solution: that takes
into account the power structure, and power struggle,
of Salvadoran society, which those with ideological
blinders’ seem unable to’ perceive. Specifically, the

.. Coalition supports: ‘'1)aU.s. policy of no military. in-

tervention and cessation of unconditional military aid:
2) negotiations to reduce.arms flow from other sources;
3) negotiations between political factions in El Salva-.
~ dor; and 4) fundamental and lasting changes in the
structure of Salvadoran society: However, while the ~ mai

Coalition supports negoti Ons as an.ave
_ ing towards a pofitical s lution an

that oppose current U.S. policy with irresponsible

away from violence, and build consensus to work for
reform. However, without reform, the poverty of pea-
sants will be like a tank of gas to which an ambitious
leader need only hold a match.

If you-recall, the “realistic solution” offered by the
Reagan Administration and first proposed in State De-
partment spokesman Thomas Enders’ s speech of July
16, 1981 was the elections (U.S. Dept. of State, “El

ee es Senki Petce,” ” Current policy No. :

eanag pape ITs

