Sports

Soccer Breaks 40-Game ASU
Streak with 4-0 Thrashing

By Mark Elmore ’82
Everybody is talking about the soccer team and how
well they’re doing, but I’m not sure anyone under-
stands the magnitude of last Saturday’s tie with Florida
International University and Wednesday’s 4-0 romp
over Appalachian State.

What if the North Meck football pee wees arrived in
Richardson Stadium and tossed the Wildcats around
for a tie ball game? What would people say if Deacon
Jones (a retired but enormous, slothlike lineman for the
L.A. Rams) decided to change sports and pressed Seb
Coe or Steve Ovett in the final lap of a world record
mile? What would people do if Argentina had defeated
Great Britain and gone on to take over the world? What
do people yell when the Davidson soccer team ties the
number two Division II team in the country and breaks
Appalachian State’s 40-game undefeated streak to take
over first place in the Southern Conference?

Davidsonians, being ladies and gentlemen, exclaim
mildly, “Oh, golly, isn’t that just swell? ’Ray for the
soccer team. Hip, hip, hooray!” (Sure.) At Appalach-
ian State they just grunt and snort. At FIU they grunt
and snort in eleven different languages.

FIU
saturday’s 1-1 tie with FIU was the turning point of ovr

Brian Hamilton gets
fouled from behind. |

season because it proved Davidson can come from be-
hind and score against a more talented team. Player for
player, FIU had swifter players with better ballhan-

Chris Roberts jukes two App. State

defendersin Wednesday’s win.

dling skills in almost every position. They just didn’t
work as well together. Our style during the game may
not have been as fluid as theirs, but our gnat-like per-
sistence on defense completely frustrated their finesse
and won us the game. A tie against FIU is a win.
Peter Burr scored Davidson’s goal on a daintily-hit
shot that went over the head of three defenders who
frantically tried to block out the goal after their keeper
had come out to block the shot. FIU scored on a hard

Beehive at Boone: Harriers Get Stung

direct kick that was partially blocked by goalie Mike
Lufkin. I thought the most impressive fact of the game
was that Davidson scored during free-flowing play,
while FIU, with faster and better-skilled players, could
only score on a free kick.

Appalachian State

Wednesday’s destruction of Appalachian State was
even bigger than the tie with FIU. In fact, Coach Slagle
said, “It was the most important game that I have won
in my career as a coach. Davidson has lost to Appal-
achian every year since 1974, and then the game was
only a tie.” Charlie smiled, “The Braves are winning,
too— I couldn’t be happier.”

Well, I could. I played horribly Saturday and did not
score in either game. I’m twenty-two, the oldest guy on
the team, an example for all, a paragon of physical pro-
wess— and I can’t score. It’s becoming an obsession!

The four goals Davidson did score were beautiful.
Todd Lambert played with the flu and a 102 degree fev-
er and even scored first (I’m trying to get the flu for Sa-
turday’s game) on a cross from Chris Roberts. Next,
Hall Barnett poked one in at the end of the first half to
make it 2-0.

Then the Cats went crazy. At the opening of the se-
cond half, Sean “Metal Head” Austin beat a defender
and blew ina shot that left the goalie flat-footed. Later,
Jim Wright scored his third goal in as many shots on
goal (all coming on corner kicks) to make it 4-0.

Even though Appalachian did not look nearly as
good as they have in years past, beating them and gain-
ing first place in the Southern Conference is the best
thing to happen this season. The Cats are proven win-
ners and now stand 6-0-3, number one in the Confer-
ence (2-0), and possibly in the Top 15 or 20 teams in
the South.

Saturday is another home game against the Vols of
Tennessee, a first-year program. If I score, the drinks
are on me. (Find me under the table.

Elmore is a five year senior who has not scored.

~ You won’t want to

by Garry Sullivan ’83

The cross-country team didn’t have
any entemology majors as of last Fri-
day, but they nonetheless learned a
good lesson. Number two man Jack
Smith dropped out of the ten-thousand
meter race after a man-eating bumble
bee ravaged him. This insect air raid
was an ill omen, for the Davidson men
were badly stung by their opponents.

Once again Frank Ivey was Queen
Bee, defeating all but two of the non-
Wildcats with a brisk time of 32:20. A

swarm of Davidson runners (Bryan Zie-
lenski, Jackie Desai, freshman speeds-
ter Frank Hagne and Jim Trotter) flew
along the course several minutes behind
Ivey. Even the efforts of these hard
workers were not enough to overpower
the combined talents of ASU, Furman
and the Citadel. The harriers returned to
the hive pondering their performances
and praying for better luck next week.

Although there were no bee stings in

the girls race, the female team could not

compete with the formidable ASU
squad. Jean Webb again led the team
with a five-thousand meter time of
20;49. Tamara Foreman moved up to
grab the second team spot, twenty-six
seconds ahead of Sarah Patterson. Chris
Seel continued her gradual ascent
through team ranks, and was closely
followed by Karis Herrnstein. Times
were slow compared with those of pre-
vious weeks, but even with above-aver-

age performances the Lady Cats would

have been hard pressed to defeat the
Mountaineers.

miss Bobby Hussey’s
MIDNIGHT
MADNESS...

-. HE DAVIDSONIAN/8 October:1962

11

