Sere ASE LTT

To the Bditor:

I found Frazier Worth’s article of
February 5 entitled “Porn Reflects A
Political Blindness” both sensitive and
appropriate. As a member of Rusk, I
freely admit that the showing of porno-
graphic films is an insensitive and sen-
seless activity for any organization to
sponsor. I would like to stress, howev-
er, that Rusk did not show the films with
malicious intent or, as Ant Goode sug-
gested three weeks ago, as a means “to
explore our sexual desires.” Rather, the

tas

films were shown in-an attempt to bring

- together women on campus for a casual

_ evening. Although I did not choose to

attend the function, a good many wom-
én’ on did (around 100, I be-
lieve) and it is my impression that no
one paid much attention to the films at
all, but enjoyed the few hours of jokes

and chatting secluded. from the rest of
the campus. This was the good intent
with which the function was sponsored.

_.: Again, Mr. Worth’s article makes a
. felevant point:

regardless of the intent
‘behind the screening of the films, the
fact remains that it was a highly insensi-
tive and “politically unaware” thing to
do. By the same token, however, take

- note of the activities which Rusk spon-

sors that more clearly show the true na-
ture of the women in the house and point
to the presence of a “political aware-
ness” among us: last spring, a free carni-
val for the children of Davidson; in the

fall, our donation of hours to help deliv-

‘er “Meals on Wheels” and our participa-
tion in the CROP fast; just last Friday, a

. Dance-A-Thon which raised over $750

to send to Davidson students in Kenya. —

In my opinion, we made a mistake in

showing pomographic films three

weeks ago, but I believe it is unfair to

judge our organization by an isolated in-
cident.

"Betsy Thomas, 82

To the Editor:

I would like to commend Steve Soud
on his article “From the Locker Room”
(Davidsonian; Feb. 5), It is truly one of
the better articles I have read in the Da-
vidsonian this year. His ‘basketball
coverage has expressed a concern for

the team that appears to be lacking in the -
rest of the student body. I don’t think he

could have come up with a better de-

‘scription of Davidson’s fans (if that is

what they can be called). And the partic-
ipation at our biggest game of the year
(against UT-C) was the worst display. of
team support Ihave ever seen. —__

. What’s the matter with you people

,out there? Basketball is an audience par-

ticipation sport, but that would never be
evidenced in Johnston Gymnasium.

Basketball games may as well be in-
cluded'in the Artists’ Series. -

I believe it was Al McGuire that said
the home court is worth at. least two
points. He obviously hasn’t been here.
Are the people here too uptight or some-
thing? Those who are eager to speak out
in. a Humes discussion just clam up
when the Cats need them. And the Cats

I see few excuses in not being able to
walk 500 yards to the gym and raising
hell for two hours, It’s the best free en-
tertainment around. And believe me,
it’s not a violation of the Code of Re-
sponsibility to yell when an opposing
player is shooting a foul shot; and VMI

“js the worst team in the league, so
_ they’ve locked up the Sportsmanship

Award. Now let’s get out there and sup-
port the team. They deserve it.

by Steve Shield ’83

may

To-the Editor: .

Sometime between. last; Friday and .
Sunday evenings, ‘most of my street
- cloths were stolen from my gym locker.
Ihave enough trouble making and keep- ©

ing friends when I can change clothes

every few days. And with this redicu-

lous Bo-ho column I have to write, I

~ have to do all I can to fight certain ste-
__. Feotypes. The locker room door was

locked during Saturday’s game, so the

ugly possibility that a member of the lo-

cal community is guilty raises its head
higher.

Their already has been plenty said
about honor code problems. I’ll not add
to that. But if anyone knows anything or
feels guilty, I can be reached at -6562.

~ Or leave anything with 630 on it in the

Davidsonian office or ATO.
Love, .

John Hartman

To the Student Body:

We would like to apologize for the
damage done to the wall in the 900
Room on Saturday, January 9th. It is
unfortunate that we did not realize how
easily this matter could have been dealt
with earlier.

D. W. Donahower ’83
A. P. Smith ’83

. Dear Editor:

This is a letter to encourage some
good, old-fashioned carpooling. During
our many trips to the Charlotte Airport,
we never fail to pass several almost
empty cars, with Davidson stickers
proudly displayed, going our same di-
rection. What bothers us is not that we
— Piedmont locals who never get to fly

anywhere — have to make the trip, but

that so many people make unnecessary,
often inconvienient, trips when so many
others are going anyway.

The SGA Rides Committee urges an-
yone who is going to the airport, and
more important anyone who is returning
after Break, to sign the list in the lobby
of Chambers so that those needing a ride
may get in contact withthem.

Tracy Thompson ’83
Craig Detweiler ’85

—

Letter to the Editor:

I would like to add an explanation to
my opinion of last week concerning
Professor Hess’s talk. First and fore-

“most, my editorial was only a criticism

of the last part of Professor Hess’s talk.
In fact, the point of his talk was not to
condemn our President though he ad-

mits a dislike of current US Policy. Pro-

fessor Hess spoke in response to a pre-
vious discussion that favored a Malthu-
sian “response” to third-world prob-

lems. Professor Hess pointed out that
there are signs of hope in the Third
World and we should not abandon these
countries. .

He based his optimism on the decline
of both death and birth rates in the Third
World. He then went on to point out
ways these countries and developed
countries could alleviate the problems

of population control and hunger in the.

Third World. Professor Hess convinc-
ingly pointed out the need for stronger
market forces. in the poorer countries
and what the Third World governments
could do for themselves. Professor Hess
and I disagree, however, on ‘how the
developed world should respond; |
agree with Reagan’s approach, he does
not.

I am also in obvious disagreement
with Elizabeth Kiss’s article but should
not have phrased my criticism in such a
sarcastic way. I remain a capitalist,
Reaganite, supporter of Nestles and all
multinational corporations. I: also pray
to the God of the marketplace (the invis-

ible hand) every night.

William Bargmann ’82

To the Editor:

Journalistic sensationalism sounds
like a foreign disease; we though we had
escaped from it, but unfortunately, the
virus even pervaded the confines of the
Davidsonian office. It ‘reared its ugly
head in last week’s article, “Internation-
al Committee Confusion,” but we offer
a remedy--some ture, concise and con-
structive opinions about our’ role on

campus.

Davidson © emphasizes a need’ for
awareness and interest in world afairs.
This is one of the reasons why “the dang
furners” are invited to study and Ppartici-
pate in campus life; and to be:seen “in

"the flesh”. Much has been. achieved in

recent years as shown by an increasing
and diversity of international
degree candidates, an ever growing en-

" thusiasm for J.Y.A. schemes, and cul-
-tural trips abroad. The new international

committee is another manifestation of
that interest and enthusiasm for ‘all
things international on campus. We
support the committee as a beneficial
way of pooling substantial resources.

We also thoroughly support its goals.
To reiterate what might have been obs-
cured last week:
“Its tripartite functions are to
‘help returning J.Y.A. students to read-
just to campus life and share their expe-

_ DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982
