Julian Bond: style and content

Senator Julian Bond gave a lively and popular pol-
itical speech last Monday night. Unfortuanately, he
took so long to wind through the time-worn and vitup-
erative attacks on President Reagan that I had little
chance to appreciate the facts and figures he used at the
end. of his speech. Much like William Buckley’s
speech last week Bond’s did not provide a thought
provoking analysis of today’s political jungle. Instead,
he lambasted the President who seeks to “turn the clock
back on civil rights,” “help the rich to the detriment of
the poor” and increase the tensions in society. Whether
Bond is right or not is not my first dispute with’ the
Georgia state senator.

Senator Bond’s style appeals solely to emotional
responses and maké faulty generalizations about oppo-
sition to his beliefs. I find such a style insulting both
personally and intellectually. I also found much lack-
ing by the spokesman for the right, William F. Buck-
ley, Jr. Both he and Senator Bond are intelligent and
articulate men who showed little of these attributes in
their well-worn speeches presented here. The sateric
wit and bombastic syntax that Buckley uses to ridicule
the left comes across to those disagreeing with his out-
look just as poorly as Bond’s aspersive jabs and con-
frontational ‘thetoric caused my indigestion and out-
rage. Both men fed us a diet of political pablum. I think
as college students we deserve better. I find it intellec-
tually insulting to be told that our president is “anti-
black” and, “anti-family.” Does such rhetoric fly in
Washington as Democrats and Republicans seek to
reconcile differences on budget priorities? I would not
have objected to a reasoned and logical refutation of
Reagan’s civil right stance. Bond hinted at such an ar-
gument near the end of his speech. Cast against his im-
passioned,  ERCESses. that characterized most of his
speech, this refutation s seemed a mere afterthought. We

should not have to tolerate remarks which are readily
available fram local..or national elected officials
who offer Such jureeto the media and their-policital
fallies..As fokthe'clague that hissed when I phrased my
belfigos¢ statement/qulestion, I utge'you to-understand
that my‘caustic phrasing was no worse than Bond’s at-
tacks on the president’s policies. We both have license
to-use whatever style-seems appropriate.

To set the record straight, Reagan is not anti-black
nor are his policies ‘a redistribution of income from the

_poor to the erich.” ” What Bond refers to as the survival of

the'richest is, in Reagan’s view, paltiative rélief to the
taxpayers whahave’ faced inexorable taxation and been
pushed into higher tax brackets by the torrid rise: in in-
flation, Not once did Bond mention the beneficial ef-
fects of a lowered inflation rate. Inflation is perhaps the
most regressive form of taxation on the poor for they
rarely have their wages and benefits tied to an index
and must spend a great deal of this income on the nec-
essary staples for daily existence. Even after Reagan’s
tax cut a middle American is still paying higher taxes to
the finance the gammut of federal spending. Most of
the focus on federal spending has come on ineffective
welfare programs though few would applaud the out-
rageous waste present in dense spending. People ex-
press a frustration with welfare programs whose costs
ballooned in the seventies and did little to aid the poor.
Ten cents of every dollar spent on helping the poor ac-
tually gets to the poor. To the Forgotten man who must
foot this bill, this waste is a misusage of his hard-
earned money. What Bond referred to as a redistribu-
tion of income from the poor to the rich i is a fallacious
interpretation of where this income comes from. What
Bond means is that the poor are receiving less, still re-
ceiving nonetheless, and the “rich,” this’ nebulous
group « of middle and upper income Americans, are now
allowed. to eer a slightly higher percentage of what

they earned, yet still surrendering money to the go-
vernment.
Bond denounced the president for opposing the
Civil rights legislation up for renewal in Congress. He
also accused the justice department of not pursuing civ-
il rights cases with enough zeal. If the justice depart-
ment has indeed consiously slowed the prosecution of
~ “civilrights offenders as Bond charges, then this.is:to.be
deplored and corrected with all deliberate speed. There
are no doubt reasons in some of these cases which fit
the administration’ S philosophy that Bowid did not care

“sdrelppidatey E make no 'excuses forthe reprehengibife

‘flip-flop ef policy'toward Bob Jones College butdo be
lieve the main thought of the administration’s approach
to civil rights is sound and desirable. _

Bond and supporters of the current federal.:civil
rights bill favor the House version of this bill which the
administration opposes. The House amendment
stresses the effect of voting rights in areas around the
country. If an area is half black it should be represented
by half black legislators, if this is not the case, then'the
district is in violation of the spirit and intent of the
House version of the bill. Even if there is no discrimi-
natory intent in a district, election results suffice to
show discrimination and dilution of black votes."There
are a number of potential reasons why blacks could be
over or underrepresented in a district, such as the per-
centage of voter turnout, and the relative merit of the
individual candidates (not based on color). Because of
these vagaries inherent to our election process, no mi-
nority group has a federal constitutional right to elect
candidates in proportion to its number. As Mobile, Al-
abama v. Bolden clearly evinced, proportional repre-
sentation based on race is not a right granted to any
group. If the House version is put into law, there would
be little need for elections to determine the minority/
majority percentages in a legislative body. 19

Student Input Doesn’t Compute ©

In the last few weeks several important decisions af-

fecting students and the future shape of the college

were made by the administration. It is unlikely, how-
ever, that many ‘ students had any impact on these deci-
sions, or even ‘knew these decisions were.under consid-
eration. ‘

Though. exiimples abound, the most ubiquitous one
is in the chariges around the campus this year. Some-
one has decreed that meandering brick paths must con-
nect every two points on campus. More recently, harsh
flood lamps have begun to replace the soft, traditional
streetlights. So far as I know, few if any students were
aware of these changes before crews started digging.
Certainly no plans were aringunced, or even any Prior
warning given.

On a slightly higher plain, the Student Conduct
Council (scc) made several substantive changes in the
face of the Honor Code this year, all with no notice of
what it was considering until it made the decision, if
then; This fall a student from. the Davidsonian was
asked to leave an SCC ‘meeting when it discussed the

issue of accountability in the Honor System. A few
‘weeks ago the SCC made entering someone’s computer’

file tantamount to breaking into his room, under the

indications thatthe: sec was.considering this before the
Computer Center issued a‘ stern warning to “Watch
your Step.’ It came as an utter Susprige to most com-
puter users.

The list goes on, A look at next year’ 's schedule will

show that the traditional free 10:00 hour is eroding.

Again, a surprise. Several departments have changed
their major requiréments and split up and combined
some of their course offerings. This, comes as a sur-
prise to all but some well-connected majors in the de-
partments. A student next year must choose between
Formal Logic and Persuasive Reasoning since the Phil-
osophy Department split the Logic ‘and Language
course. A slight i inconvenience, true, but a difference
that matters.

The Development office is busy planning what.Da-
vidson will look like in the next couple decades, but is
reticent to reveal their planis to all but potential big do-
nors.

These examples are indicative of the way Davidson
generally makes decisions. There is an overweening

. attitude that the less said about things, the better. While

obviously this makes it harder to put out a newspaper,
our concern is not totally self-serving. Greater open-
ness cannot help but get more students involved in run-

_ ning the Davidson campus. Students at other campuses

are amazed at the low level of responsibility students

_+. have in running this campus. If we are as capable as the
Honor System. ‘Though not ‘unexpected; there weré no |

Admissions Office says we are, surely we can at least
be informed of the important.decisions.

There are, of course, exceptions to this élbséd’door:* |
policy. The Educational’ Policy Committee (EPC) has

+ : fe ag _ we

been very open in its deliberations on a new grading
scale. While many will probably be unhappy with wha-
tever it decides, the decision won't be a surprise <al-
ready set in‘granite when students first hear of it.
The inclusion of students on the committees which
make the decisions is a good sign, but it is often not
enough. Often the students are as reticent as the admin-
‘istration: While occasionaly there may be reasons for
treating individual circumstances with discretion, rare-
ly is there sufficient justification for the black robe of
secrecy which surrounds virtually everything having to
‘do with the Honor Code, Development, and curricu-
lum, among others. “oH
I do not in any way wish to question the propriety'or
widsom of those decisions or the people who make
them (though we, of course, reserve the right to do so
later). I do, however, strongly question the way deci-
sions 9~> made, Even though I agree with most of
them, it is harder to accept a decision which comes ¢a-
priciously out of the blue.
What I hope for is more notice of upcoming deci-

’ sions, with a chance for general student imput. Proba-

bly this suggestion will strike some as “letting the in-
mates run the asylum.” This attitude is perhaps the
most damning indictment of the status quo.

aes O°G "mee

Jeff Mann °84 wo, oe

Ba

_DAVIDSONIAN /-Friday, 7. May,1982
