e e This week the B. B. floated into the “Cinema ’n’ Draft-
Ze rot ers \ } 1 house,” at East Independence and Albemarle Road, to
. “Author! Author!” in this enjoyably uncommon theat-
: . er. We were initially greeted by a tuxedo-clad ticket lad
e who welcomed us into their suspiciously non-red theat- _
er for an entrance fee of $1.00. A mildly unfamiliar
t I } e P itch CI SI LOW lobby area includes a TV viewing ampitheater and a
. coupld of video two-bit eaters. The popcorn scent was
. all that kept us from scanning for a dance floor and D.

la I 9 J. as we joined the completely casual two-tier lounge
Cinema Nn Dr. alt t House environment. Individual Jetson-chairs grouped around
private tables offered controllable space for film view-
ing and food and drink consumption, and deliveries

The Booze Brothers hope to provide were made by Danskin darlings for reasonable fares.
useful reviews of entertainment alterna- Available bverages include Michelob and Michelob
tives to the Patterson Court, 900 Room, Light for $4.50 a pitcher, seven brands of wine ($1.25
and other Davdison stand-bys. We , a glass, $4.75 a carafe and up to $8.00 a bottle) and the
serve to broaden the student body’ s per- usual selection of soft drinks. Sampled edibles in-
spective af available non-academic ex- cluded Hero sandwich, Cinema Chicken, Roast Beef
periences:.. . sandwich and Super Sausage. Priced at $2.50 per, with

side orders of popcorn, we considered these no-frill
servings to be healthy snacks.

The main theme of this brilliant cinema cum bar
cum restaurant is freedom. You can smoke, drink, put
your feet up and basically kick back while the film runs
its course. The Cinema ’n’ Drafthouse seats a maxi-
mum of 225 at ohe time and is busiest during the Satur-
day night 9:45 showing.

The lounge atmosphere peaks between viewings as
WLUV-FM provides audio for two slide projection
screens which, though not functioning on our visit, dis-
play classic film pix.

Films are run for one week, beginning on Fridays.
Films may be viewed seven nights a week at 7:30 p.m.
and 9:45 p.m. with midnight showings on Friday and
Saturday. Scheduled to play are: Animal House, 24
September; Star Trek II, October 1; A Midsummer
Night’ s Sex Comedy, October 8; Things Are Tough All
Over, October 15; and Poltergeist, October 22.

We very much enjoyed our evening at Cinema 'n’
Drafthouse but would not recommend this particular
theater house for serious film patrons, as violations of
traditional theater etiquette are not actively discour-
aged.

Interests in hiring Cinema ’n’ Drafthouse for pri-
vate functions are directed to Tracy and/or Steve at
535-8333.

Joe Jaworski and John Verdi

Continued From Page 6

Alan J. Singerman You too can have your

Packed away somewhere in the jumble of boxes in . .
his office is a copy of Hesse’s Narcissus and Goldmun- own CO DY of a Davidsonian pho tog ra ph J
d—a book, says Dr. Alan Singerman, that “everybody “eg
ought to read.” Singerman, who served as visiting as-
sociate professor of French at Davidson in 1980-81, is .
still in the process of setting up shop, returning as a res- Ph oto P rices
ident associate professor in French.

A graduate of Ohio University, Singerman has 1 7 5
taught French at the University, of Maine at Orono __f} . ;
since 1968 and has studied at the Sorbonne and the 5 X 7 first copy. $
University of Strassbourg in France. He received his .
master’s and doctoral degrees from Indiana Universi- seco nd CO Dy 8 $.90
ty.

At the age of 14 he realized what he calls a “mysti-
cal attraction” for the French language—inspired by

the “Three Musketeers and Casanova complexes.” 8 x. 10—fi rst cOpy $2.50 _

Defying parents and school authorities who wanted
him to study Latin, he enrolled in a French class and s

began a love affair with the language that extends second Copy. $1 .25
beyond the classroom to his French wife Veronique.

An accomplished fencer, Singerman hopes to assist _
Sterling Martin with a fencing class in the winter. .

Anne Lambert ’86

THE DAVIDSONIAN/September 24, 1982 | 9

