Sports _

The Wide World of

Davidson hosted the twenty-third edi-
tion of the Davidson Relays and, despite
a smaller field than in recent years, the
occasion met success. Appalachian
State won both the men’s and women’s
division by sizeable margins. Davidson
teams finished in the middle of their re-
spective fields, the men tallying twelve
points to place 9th out of 19 teams and
the women scoring 51 points to finish
Sth in a field of 10 teams. As always ina
meet of this size, however, it is the indi-
vidual performances, whether triumphs
or tragedies, that one recalls.

Once again, the weather mirrored the
dual nature of those performances—the
tried-but-true thrill of victory and agony
of defeat (experienced vicariously but
no less emotionally by lookers-on). Sa-
turday’s weather was both the best and
the worst of Davidson’s climate and the
meet held moments of equal duality.
One recalls the machine-like ease of
Berry College’s Cindy Campbell and
App. State’s Carlton Law as each won
both the 10,000 and 5000 races. One al-
so remembers the deeply etched lines of
strain displayed on the faces of the inter-
mediate hurdlers; whether victor or van-
quished, as they complete this in many
ways most rigorous of events. One also
remembers the pain, shock,and anguish
of App.. State’s Mary Wright who
snagged the final hurdle in the 100m
highs and fell scant yards from the fin-
ish, changing a probable win into a hob-
ble across the.line to sécure at least thé
single point for sixth place.

Davidson’s runners and jumpers were
no less distinguished than these. Marian
Hill ran two splendid races to place se-
cond in the 10,000 and 5000 meter runs.
Lance Sisco braved a track made trea-
cherous by high winds and heavy rain to
waltz into the final of the 110 high hur-
dles. In that final, Lance finished se-
cond by the narrowest of margins to
James Orr of ASU. Clark Carter and

: Danny Armistead placed sixth in the steeplechase

The Davidson Relays

Danny Armistead had fine days as well
and placed sixth in the pole vault and
steeplechase respectively. Davidson’s
mens relay teams.also placed sixth in the
distance medley and two-mile relays.
The female counterparts to those two
races, however, provided the greatest
excitement and _ satisfaction for the
Wildcat fans in attendance. In the dis-
tance medley, Jean Webb took the baton
in fourth place but ran a startling and in-
spiring 1320 yard leg to put Davidson in
Ist place with the one-mile leg remain-
ing. Tamara Foreman took up where

: Jean left off, but the heat and a very fast

early pace combined to allow Towson
State’s Sharon Keller overtake her on
the last lap for the medley win. Jean
Webb also ran a powerful final leg in the
2-mile relay, but strong legs from Tam-

‘ara Foreman, Laura Hills, and Melissa

Page eased Davidson’s victory in that
relay. That win, however, was no less
impressive for its emotional and well-
balanced character than the narrow loss
in the distance medley.

Unfortunately, we must wait another
year for the colorful swirl and bursting-
at-the-seams excitement of the Relays.
The atmosphere, the simple physical
abundance that surrounds such an at-
hletic event is, however, well worth the
wait. Unfortunately too, however, we
must wait until next spring to see David-
son’s tracksters in action again. Both
men’s and women’s track teams have an
open date this weekend and the rest of
the meets are away. They will next see
action at the Furman Invitational in
Greenville, S.C. the following wee-
kend. This meet will serve for the men
as a tune-up for the Southern Confer-
ence Meet also to be held at Furman on
the weekend following that. For some
unknown reason, there is no conference
meet for women.

Jeff Hamilton ‘82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982
