developed a kind of alliance with South Africa to try to

get Rhodesia to accept some forum of black rule, but:

could anything significant accomplished. The neigh-
‘boring black states were of course very suspicious of
Kissinger; he didn’t have a lot of credibility with the
governments he had worked against in very recent
times. And so, Kissinger’s policy didn’t work, but ne-

-vertheless, even in the last years of the Ford adminis-
tration, the switch had taken place. The government
was beginning to try to identify with the lage govern-
ment.

_ It became increasingly clear even to the coldest cold
war view that we would be left out in the cold vis 4 vis
the Soviet Union if we seemed to be the only country in
the world that identified with the white-dominated re-
gimes. So, from a‘ strictly cold war point of view it
didn’t seem to any longer make much sense to identify
with South Africa.

In January 1977 when Carter took office, we saw a
whole new group of characters come to power in regard
to Africa affairs. You can often tell by the people who
are in charge: what an administration’s inclinations are
ina particular area. For the United States’ African poli-
cy, the most important Carter appointment was Andy
Young who became Ambassador to the United Nations
and was the chief policy ‘maker for the continent of
Africa. Strangely enough, I have always been sur-
prised at the general attitute in this country toward
Andy Young on this issue. — I’ve known Andy Young
for a very long time — When I was chairmamof the Af-
rican Affairs committee | would always ask him to
come over to testify first on African affairs. He‘has al-
ways been considered very, very conservative on Afri-
can affairs, which was quite to the contrary of his im-
age. —He’s even more conservative on African affairs
than E would have been: He has a very liberal image, I
think probably just because he was very free about
what he said about African affairs and because he was

frank about his own feelings.

‘In any case, there came.a group in with the Carter ad-
ministration who believed that we ought to adopt a new
African policy, or at.léast to further emphasize the poli-

cy the Kissinger had switched to in 1976. And we began .

to sdee immediately such a policy implemented. We

started to imake statements in condemnation of apar- -

theid in South Africa. In Austria Vice-President Mon-
dale told the Prime Minister of South Africa that we
would begin to. distance ourselves more and more
from the Republic of South Africa if they did not begin
to show some kind of progress toward sharing power.
There were a whole series of things that happened to-
ward the Republic of South Africa. We began to form
the so-called five power contact group, involving the
United States, Canada, France, Great Britian and Ger-
many, to begin negotiations with South Africa

and the black front-line states on the independence of
Namibia. With the British we began immediately to
put a lot of pressure on Ian Smith and the Rhodesians to
try to bring about change to majority rule. African poli-
cy became a rather central part of American foreign
policy. Most of the leaders of Africa came to this coun-
try and met with the president.

‘The South African situation itself began to unravel.
When the riots occurred in the black township of Sawe-
to, when Steve Biko was killed, and so forth. Each of
those incidents caused the American government to
take an even tougher position toward the Republic of
South Africa. :

Over the last year of the Carter administration, the
invasion of Afghanistan, in December 1979, began to
take more and more of Carter’s interest and focus..He
began to shift much more toward a cold war policy.
This had its effects in Africa as it did in the other coun-
tries of the world. There was a kind of shift back to a
greater emphasis on Soviet policy and less interest on

regional areas of the world and their problems. Never-

theless, in that period we just begin to get significant
amounts of development assistance in Southern Africa
as well as in other parts of Africa. Jt.was a period in
which we gave virtually no arms:to any Country south
of the Sahara. Virtually none — we gave very small
amounts to Zaire, and even smaller amounts to Kenya.

When the Reagan administration came to power,
there was a pretty sharp reversal back in the other direc-
tion. In the Reagan administration it is a little difficult
to identify the players.

The new Ambassador to the United Nations, Jeane
Kirkpatrick has said that Carter’s policy in Africa was a
misguided policy, with too much emphasis on human
rights. In the African bureau, the Assistant Secretary of
State for African affairs is Chester Crocker. Not a bad
appointment in my judgement; he is a professional
Africanist, conservative and sympathetic to the general
Reagan view, but a very competent person. Secretary
of State Haig has had relatively little experience in Af-
rican affairs. It is difficult to say in terms of the Nation-
al Security Council because Allen never expressed
himself on African and Mr. Clark has not yet either.
What has happened generally with regard to the Rea-
gan administration is a less distant policy toward the
Republic of South Africa.

It is important to understand that to Africans, the Re-
public of South Africa is the issue. It is not three other
things; it is not the Soviet Union; it is South Africa.
From the black African point of view, the Republic of
South Africa, ruled by a minority of white Afrikaners,
is the source of all evil. Blacks have absolutely no
rights in the Republic of South Africa. They are forced
into 13% of the land even though they make up 87% of
the population. No black person by definition, by the
color of his skin,-may vote:in,any:election or may run
for office in the Republic of South Africa.

‘In an interview with Walter Cronkite, Reagan said
that he did not accept the South African form of go-
vernment but that he felt that the Republic of South
Africa had been getting a rather bum rap. He said that
Americans ought to have a somewhat greater sympathy
for South Africa for no other reason than the fact that

‘South Africa fought with us in every war. In fact, they

did fight with us in World War I and World War II, but
it is a bit of misreading of history because it happens
that the government of South Africa that fought in the
World Wars was in opposition to the present govern-
ment. The Afrikaner government came to power only
in 1948. Prime Minister Vorster was intermed all
through World War II because he was pro-Nazi. There

_are many other illustrations that indicate that we are go-

ing to take a different position toward the Republic of
South Africa. We have now reassigned military. aid
there that we had taken out during the Carter adminis-

' tration. We have discontinued condeming apartheid

except when pressed very hard to do so.
In the case of Namibia, however, the Reagan admin-

" istration has pretty much followed Carter’s policy. The

five-power contract group has continued to meet with
South Africa and the black African states and continue
to try to find:a resolution of that problem.

The Reagan administration has:also continued the
Carter policy of supporting the new black government
of Zimbabue. Indeed, it has offered rather significant
development assistance to that n new Lsgepes

By Dick Clark, compiled and edited by Dan Turk

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982
