Charles Wright

Poet Returns To Davidson

Charles Wright will fly from Los Angeles Interna-
tional Airport to Douglas Municipal Airport sometime
around the 15th of April. I know from experience that it
is one hell of a shock to leave the pressurized cabin and
enter the. South in its throes of springtime. It almost
chokes you after the processed smut of L.A. The white
houses with creaky front porches, the cobwebs and
missing windows. The squirrels running along tele-
phone wires carrying the good news, the buzzing i in-
sects. And everything drenched in the memories that
refuse to evaporate, warm and moist, fecund and yet
deadly. -

This is the stuff of Charles Wright’s poems. The
vines of his creativity are firmly rooted in this rich
southern soil, and he will be returning to it next week
for his 25th class reunion. (Davidson College, B.A.,
1957) In Wright’s poems, the span of 25 years is a sig-

nificant. one, things seem to-fuin in cycles.ofa quarter ..

céntury. At that distance, it is possible to take a fresh
_ look at the past. Well, Charles Wright will be here at
Davidson for the first time since his graduation, and
while he’s here he will give a reading of some of his

poems and also present the Vereen Bell Prizes. Make |
sure‘to hear his‘reading; it’s not often‘we get visiting. «“~

poets here at Davidson.
Wright was born in Kingsport, Tennessee and at-
tended prep school at Christ Church near Arden, N.C.

After that, he came to Davidson where he was, at vari-_

ous times, a writer for the Davidsonian, co-editor of ~« FF

Scripts -n-Pranks, President of the 'SAE’s, and a histo-
ry major. He left Davidson for the army at 21, went to

language school and was then shipped to Italy for three

years which had an enormous effect on his poetic ca-
reer. He developed a great interest in Italian poetry, es-
pecially Montale, whose works he has translated ex-
tensively. Wright also followed Ezra Pound when he
could, listening to his readings, though he never actu-
ally introduced himself. “I never could figure out just
what to say to him,” laughed Wright in our telephone
interview,

;J was a little nervous about what I would say to Cha-

rles Wright when I called to talk to him, but he proved

to be very warm and very human. (He had to interrupt
our conversation to keep his son from accidentally
burning down the house with a sterno stove. Fortunate-
ly, his wife Holly came to the rescue.) Me lamented the
fact that he very rarely had the opportunity to visit the
South,. Wright currently teaches at the University of
California at Irvine, a position he took as a temporary
job, but he’s been there fifteen years now and yearns to
come back to the South. He. was greatly. cheered to
learn that mandatory chapel was no longer a Davidson

tradition, <7 acoder 0 emg tech autem

alcohol was allowed on campus. |
 T-also learned that Italy proved a fertile soil for
Wright's transplanted imagination. It seems that you

have to leave the South (at least once) in order to write _

Charles Wright’s senior picture from Quips and Cranks

. about it, and Wright felt a great kinship with the bush

landscape and the omnipresent weight of the past in
Northern Italy. This atmosphere evoked memories of
Wright’s own childhood in Tennessee and North Ca-
rolina. “How sweet the past is, no matter how wrong,
or how sad” goes the line from his recent poem, “The
Southern Cross.”

At his best, Wright takes moments from his past and
crystallizes them in precise poems with a keen intellec-
tual edge. The organizing principal behind his poetry is
spatial, not causal, and each glittering, highly polished
poem is arranged as part of a mosaic. Each piece is a
part of a larger picture or vision which is yet to be real-
ized. His poem, “The Killing” presents a striking met-
aphor for the re-emergence of his memories as poems:

(And like, in childhood, those bits of glass
Taken into the flesh—which disappear,
Which leave no mark—will these, too surface
In 25 years or so,

Uncolored, unedged, from our skin?)

However, the bits of glass, the poems, are not called

_ forth easily, and sometimes it seems like they have re-

quired surgical removal. I feel that Wright sometimes
over-intellectualizes. In the second stanza of “The
Killing’ Wright uses “Electroencephalogram” as a si-
mile for a Virginia creeper, and I don’t think anyone
could pull that off successfully.

Another side of Wright’s poetry is represented by

“Laguna Blues.” “Something’s off-key and unkind/
Whatever it is, it bothers me all the ‘time:” It is helpful
to remember that his poetry is “the spontancous over-
flow of powerful emotion recollected...” in California,
which may well be the antithesis of tranquility. Of Ca-
lifornia, Wright says he “feels isolated, which is good
for writing, but I’d rather be in Chapel Hill or Charlot-
tesville.”

Charles Wright is an alunmus of Davidson College
and shares many experiences and frustrations common
to most of the students here. He is also a very success-
ful and well-respected poet who is excited about this
chance to revisit Davidson. Wright is a regular contrib-
utor to the New Yorker (see his latest poem in the April
Sth issue) and the Paris Review. Wesleyan University
Press has published his five books, which are all avail-
able in the library. I strongly urge you to look at some
of his poems before going to hear him read, and give a
quick thought to what it means to live in the South.
While reading, watch out for some of his recurring im-
ages. He does interesting things with hands, gloves,
stars, scars, and poisons. Once again, don’t miss hear-
ing him read, and if you get the chance, introduce your-
self! Even if you can’t think of anything profound to
say.

Lee Torrence

14.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982 _
