Volume LXXI, Number 5

The e Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday, : 29 October 1 1982

a What Will Changer

Faculty Approves Semesters

By DAVID RESNIK °85

The Davidson faculty approved an
amended version of the semester prop-
osal by a 60-33 vote at their 19 October
meeting.

The revised proposal maintains the
graduation requirement of thirty-six

courses, the “normal”.teaching load of

Six Courses per year, and six credits for

requiring that the proposal not be imple-
mented before the 1984-85 school year.

The. faculty has referred the actual
calendar to the Executive Committee
and the daily schedule to the Education-
al Policies Committee for further adjust-
ments.

According to Collegé President Sa-
muel Spencer, “The proposal is passed,
though the date of implementation” is
still uncertain.

Semester Planning Committee
chairman Sam Maloney is “pleased”
with the faculty’s decision. After the
meeting, he says he “felt like a midwife,

helping in the birthing of something the

» Johnston. says

faculty was willing to deliver.”
Maloney regrets that “it will be un-
comfortable to have a lame duck year
(the year before transition]” and would
like to see the proposal implemented

- Sooner:

Student Government Association
President Tim Johnston is still “not sat-
isfied” with the proposal “as it is now.”
According to Johnston, the proposal
would overburdern science majors.
courses
would not be on a fair parallel” with oth-
er schools. He recommends that lab
courses above the 021 level count for
one-and-a-half credits. “As it [the prop-
osal] is fine tuned,” says Johnston, “I
will go to bat for science majors.”

Johnston believes that adding a
credit-hours: system to the Semester

Proposal might alleviate the Science

_ Department’s problems.

The SGA‘appointed a committee to
study the addition of a credit-hours sys-
tem to the Semester proposal at its Exec-
utive Council meeting this Wednesday. -

turn to page 14

Humanities Predict
Smooth Transition

BY ROXANNA GUILFORD ’85

For most of the disciplines in the hu-
manities, the transition to the semester
system will be a smooth one. Although
none of these departments have official-
ly re-evaluated their coygse offerings,
few professors anticipate any major cur-
s___riculum changes.

‘One of the areas least afrected! by the ~-

switch is the Humanities program. Ac-

cording to Religion Professor Sam Mal-
oney, “It’s business as usual, meeting
five days a week.” While admitting
there is some question about the credit
Humanities students will receive, Dr.
Maloney does not see this as a serious
drawback.

The only possible disadvantage, con-
cedes Dr. Maloney, is that “under the
semester calendar, there will be just 140
class meetings as opposed to 150.” He
does not view this as a major problem,
however, for “Humanities at Davidson

was born under the semester system.”

Sciences Bemoan Physical Inflexibilities.

BY TOM SCHILLING ’85

‘The Biology and Chemistry Depart- .

ments have expressed conflicting reac-
tions to the semester proposal.

Biology ‘department chairman John

Williamson believes that. the proposal
will require a “complete rethinking of
departmental offerings” as far as. “time
schedules, material, and major require-
ments.” Although he sees “real costs” in
changing, he also feels that making each
department rethink its program could be
good.

Williamson personally thinks that the
semester system is “probably a better

_ learning system” and that students, over
“a semester, can “have time to mature in
the subject.” He adds that the Biology-

department will not have too much
trouble adjusting to the new system with

“not too much constriction of lab
space.”

Associate Dean of the Faculty and
Chemistry department chairman J.N.
Burnett also sees a complete change in
his department. He does not share the
same optimism toward adjustment that

Professor Williamson has.

“Our physical plant is perfect for the
system we have now,” Burnett says.
Some courses may have to be cancelled

in order to make more lab space for oth-
er courses.
Chemistry 021, a course “taken by

4, half the students who graduate from Da-

vidson,” will have to be eliminated to
provide lab space for other courses; ac-
cording to Burnett.

He adds that this will prevent non-
science majors from experiencing a lab-
oratory science.

Burnett says that another problem
with adjustment is that “Chemistry ma-
jors needing certification by the Amer-
ican Chemical Society will not be able
to get the needed lab time” as well as
other requirements.

Dr. Maloney is confident that the return
will be easy.

Speaking for his department as a
whole, Dr. Maloney asserts, “We won't
have a problem as a department.” He

_ anticipates no changes in either course

offerings or major requirements.
Philosophy Professer Robert May-
dole shares this sentiment. “We won’t

-need-te-~make.much change.” He pre-

dicts that the department will continue
to offer the same courses and maintain
the same major requirements. He does,
however, see the new system:as a
“chance to offer more seminar-type

courses.”

English Department Chairman Dr.
Gil Holland, also sees the calendar
change as an opportunity for more in-
depth study. “I hope that this [the se-
mester system] will enable us to offer
more advanced courses and seminars.”
On the whole, Dr. Holland anticipates
no significant adjustments in the Eng-
lish department’s curriculum. He be-
lieves, however, that the extra time will
strengthen such existing areas as com-
position and research.

The semester system is a “real plus”
for the political science department, ac-

cording to Professor Thomas Kazee.

He, too, sees research projects benefit-
ting from the additional time. Dr. Kazee
sees an advantage for the student inter-
ested in internships, because many of
these programs, like the Washington
Center for Learning Alternatives, are
more feasable under a semester plan.
Otherwise, Dr. Kazee predicts “very
few changes in our department. It is un-
likely that any courses will be
changed.” Likewise, the department
has made no plans to change the major
requirements.

Professor Malcolm Partin has a sim-

turn to page 14
