Sir Waltcd Ralegh’s career as privateer, explorer,
and perhaps paramour to Queen Elizabeth remains
somewhat hazy to this day, but the spring drama RA-

LEGH! will bring the colorful story to stage next wee- .

kend. History has often told his story with such simple-
—but—true stereotypes as Ralegh laying down his
cloak in the mud for the Queen to pass over and his cur-
ious and shocking use of the aromatic weed called to-
bacco. Yet James Pendleton, author of the play RA-
LEGH! anda Davidson graduate of ’52, brings into
play both the dramatic and the historical Sir Walter.

Pendleton avoids at all costs letting his historical dra-

ma read like a textbook. As he says: “In writing this
play, I have held two objectives. The first was to be
dramatically effective, and the second was to be true to
the’ historical’ personalities and issues. I agree with
Aristotle, however, that poetry is a higher art than his-
tory, and whenever my two goals conflicted with each
other, I have subordinated literal historical accuracy to
the greater demands of dramatic form.” He admits to
putting the known words of one character in another
character’s mouth in- cases where the dramatic effect
will be heightened.

Directed by Rupert T. Barber, the play will feature
14 student actors, including Todd Cowdery as Ralegh,
Janet: Ward Black as Queen‘ Elizabeth, Stephanie
Moffet as Ralegh’s wife, and John Richards as Sir
Henry Yelverton: In-addition to the actors, about 70
students are working on design execution, costuming,
make—up, lighting, box—office, and promotion. The
set design is the work of J. Steven Cline, yet another
Davidson graduate, who conceived the set for the Da-
vidson production of GUYS AND DOLLS three years
ago. Davidson drama professor Joseph Gardner is the
Technical Director, and the lighting will be by Charles
Will, Jr., operations manager of the Union. -

Although James Pendleton asserts the. primacy. of
pure drama over pure fact, his own life devotes time to
both pursuits. An avid researcher, Pendleton has com-
bined a long: teaching career at Virginia Common-
wealth University with success as a playwright.

During 23 years at VCU, the.associate professor of
English has written more than a.dozen works for the
theatre which have been produced and published along
with works for television and radio.

RALEGH! won the Rochester,.Minn. , Civic Théater
Playwriting Award for 1978. His TV works,;“‘Echoes”
and “Rite of Passage,” won for him the Eugene O’ Neill
Memorial Theater Center Award for Television Drama
for. two consecutive years—’79 and ’80. His -play
titled, “A Last Supper,” was selected and published in
BEST SHORT PLAYS FOR 1980. His plays have been
produced throughout the United States _ in Canada
and Germany.

RALEGH! is an elaborate affair, no. lose’ in terms of

set and costume than plot. The costuming will all :-be:

done by Davidson students under the direction of

Cindy Faulkenberry, senior drama major. This arran-

gement will provide a better costume inventory forthe _

department and reduce the cost of the play. A grant of

$3000 from the Arts and Science'Council will help de-

fray the cost of the two echoed tiincks of RALEGH! ! at
Charlotte’s Spirit Square Performance Place. The stu-
dent production of GODSPELL also helped to alleviate

the high cost of RALEGH!. Led by Laura Singleton,

the production netted $600, all of which will go toward
costuming.

The Spirit Square performances will. provide a
unique opportunity for the actors to be received by a

. non—Davidson audierice. These two performances,

however, will not use the student crew but only the ac-
tors and stage manager.
Director Barber says the production is making good

progress. Dress rehearsal will take place on Monday,
April 29, the student Opening on Thursday, April 22,
the two regular performances on Friday and Saturday

_ evenings, and’ the Spirit Square performances on the

following weekend. Tickets for those performances
will be available through the Davidson box office: For —
ticket. information. call -892—2000, extension’ 340,
2—5 p.m. weekdays. The student opening tickets will
be sold ata reduced rate. |

,

Andy Wilson ’84

