Dr. Davies
Receives
NEH Grant

Assistant professor of classics Dr.
Mark Davies. is in cohoots with Aristo-
phanes. Davies just received a two
month grant from the National Endow-
ment for the Humanities (NEH) to study
“Wasps” at UNC-Chapel Hill.

The ancient Greek comedy plays with
law courts and those who must endure
them. Aristophanes created “Wasps”
towards the end of the 5th c. B.C. Da-
vies believes that much of the real
comedy in “Wasps” has been lost since
then, because the modern era has no sol-
id comprehension of the context in
which Aristophanes wrote.

Davies will use the NEH grant to con-

duct a thorough study of the props and
costumes used in the play. Out of his re-
search, Davies hopes to produce a con-
textual commentary which will accom-
pany the script, to be published in late
1983/early 1984.

“People have studied Aristophanes
before. But-I’m approaching his work
from more than a literary point of view.
I’m trying to wed his literature with art
and archeological records to develop a
better understanding of what his works
really meant to Greeks of that era,” Da-
vies said.

‘One way in which Davies will incor-
porate archeology and art with literary
criticism, is by studying a photographic

collection of Greek vases at Oxford.

"Uni England, during the Sum-
phe In addition, Davies hopes

to travel to Athens in the summer of

1983 to study specifically the excavated.

ruins of Grecian law courts and the ob-
ORE Davies, a Princeton

graduate, has taught at Davidson since _
1971. |

Elizabeth Smiley °84

Davidson
String Ensemble

The Davidson String Ensemble wil
present a spring concert on Tuesday,
May 4 at 8:30 p.m. in the 900 room and
will also perform on the Village green
during Town Day on May 1, at noon.

Ivan Zugelj,. assistant conductor and
principal bassist with the Charlotte
Symphony, directs the fifteen member
ensamble, which includes four David-
son students and other musicians rang-
ing in age from junior high students to
retired persons. .

The 900 room performance will in-
clude an arrangement for strings of Ru-
manian Folk Dances by Bela Bartok;
Spielerei by Carl Stix; Two Elegiac
Melodies, Op. 34, by Edvard Griegi;
Jazz Pizzicato by Leroy Anderson; Vir-
ginia Dare Dance by Lamar Stringfield;
Concerto in E minor for violin and or-
chestra, Op. 4, No. 2, by Antonio Vi-
valdi; and Serenade in G major, K. 525,
“Eine Kleine Nachtmusik,” by W.A.
Mozart. The Town Day perfomrance
will include the Bartok and Mozart pie-
ces listed above.

Admission to the concerts is free and
open to the public.

David Resnik ’85

Ground Zero Week

The Disarmament Study Group and
the Chaplain’s office sponsored Ground
Zero Week at Davidson last week.

“. Events included films, PBS broadcasts

on the Big Screen, a chapel service and
sermon with Charlie Summers.

The Gallery showed “The Last Epi-
demic” on Monday, and “The Race No-
body Wins” on Tuesday. “Grassroots
Disarmament” was shown in the Morri-

son ‘Room: on Thursday. “Pray. for
Peace,” a chapel service was held on —

Friday morning, and on Sunday Sum-
mers delivered a sermon, “Profits of
Peace,” in the College. Presbyterian
Church.

Summers stressed that Ground Zero
Week ‘was a national ‘project. “It has

been sponsored by a coalition of people,

' including the Union. for Concerned
Scientists and Physicians for Social Re-

sponsibility,” he said.

. The film “The Last Epidemic”
shown in Charlotte public schools, aad
a number of PBS reports were national-
ly televised during the week. These

" ‘productions included “Preventing a Nu-

clear War” on Wednesday and “The
Anti-Nuclear Arms Movement in North
Carolina,” on Friday. In addition, the
Davidson’ sponsors petitioned for the
nuclear freeze campaign. The petition
will continue to circulate for the next
couple of weeks, Summers said.

“The general intent of Ground Zero
Week was to educate people about the
horrors of nuclear war,” Summers said.
Supporters of Ground Zero Week
claimed to challenge the false impres-
‘sions that the present administration is
giving about. Civil Defense. “At this
point, there is no way to hide from nu-
clear war,” Summers added. “Preven-
tion of nuclear war is the only plausible
alternative.”

Elizabeth Smiley 84

Clark Ross
and Youth

‘Unemployment

Terming the current 20 percent youth
unemployment rate “probably the most
serious labor problem today,” a David-
son College pro fessor has made recom-
mendations to the N.C. 2000 Commis-
sion to help alleviate the situation.

_ Mr, Clark Ross, assistant professor
of economics, suggested a program of a
state jobs corps, youth-hiring tax credit
and high:school jobs counselors in a pa-
per he recently submitted to the com-
mission.

_ If fully implemented, his proposed
$13 million program would employ
4,000 people in the 16-19 year old age
group, fewer than 10 percent of the
50,000 unemployed youths in the state.
The real point, Ross said in conclusion,

is that North Carolina “must recognize -
. the tremendous social and private costs

of youth unemployment and be willing
to experiment with possible remedies.

~. “Discouragement among the young
should be of particular concern to policy
makers since these discouraged youths
could become permanent dropouts from

the labor force and more likely succumb

to drug abuse, alcoholism, and crime,”
he said.

Ross’ paper, along with those ad-
dressing 13 other economic issues (plus

more in the fields .of basic human needs,
community and natural resources), will

be considered by the N.C. 2000 Com-
mission agit ptepares policy recommen-
dations to present to Governor James
M: Hunt by the end of the year.

Ross earned a Ph.D. from Boston
College in 1976. He served as a research
scientist at the University of Michigan
Center for Research on Economic
Development and as an assistant profes-
sor at the College of William and Mary
before coming to Davidson in 1979.

Over $1000 Pledged
in CROP Walk

The annual CROP walk to fight world
hunger took place on Sunday, April 25.
Students, faculty, and members of local
churches received pledges for partici-
pating in the ten mile walkathon. This
year more than one thousand dollars
was pledged by members of the David-

- son community. The money will go to

feed hungry people around the world.
Gordon Turnbull, the head of the Da-
vidson College CROP organization, ex-
pressed his appreciation to all those who
contributed to the success of this year’s
walk, “I hope that everyone realizes that
what may seem like a small contribution
to us, makes a great deal of difference to
those who would othewise do without.”

Chris Blake ’85

Ralegh! Hits
The Road

Charlotte area theatregoers will enjoy
their second premiere of the year this

- weekend when the Davidson College

Theatre and Speech Department per-
forms James Pendleton’s Ralegh! at
NCNB Performance Place in Spirit
Square.

The opening night performance will
be Friday, April 30, at 8:15 p.m. There
will be an additional performance at the
same time the following evening, May
case .

Tickets for.the Spirit Square prod-
uction are $5.00 and will be on sale at
the box office. Reservations and further
information are available ‘by calling

“892-2000, ext. 340, weekday after-

noons. Ralegh! has been supported in
part by the Arts and Science Council
‘and the Grassroots Arts Program of the
North Carolina Arts Council. ©

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982
