In many ways, their ctiierlaninns are typical of the
political attitudes of the people—ranging from a kind
of fatalism about their situation and a vague hope that
Israel will “come to its senses,” to.a romantic faith in
“the irreversibility of progress and national liberation ,”
and a feeling that “the situation in the Arab world is
such that it encourages a political initiative inthe West

B HN
“ “Kis true,” the professional, “that the Palesti-
nians could baw. more sophisticated and more

. politically agile. It’s the same pattern of negativism
that existed in 1948 when we lost what we had then. I

don’ t believe the Arabs and the PLO are ready to move,

. and that is unfortunate.

- | “The Arabs will continue to say no, no, no—unfor-

- tunate as that-is. The Israelis certainly have the admi-

Nistrative capability of succeeding in their plans of de
facto annexation, but I doubt they can stand the cost in
human terms, . .

.. Israel is:now calling the tune, but the development
of the term, or attitude, of tsumud (“steadfastness”) is

very clever.and. very widespread; people are increas-
ingly resilient. Israel can succeed through all sorts of
clever administrative measures in taking the land, but

“never the people: So, in the long run, I am confident

that the system is doomed to failure.

“Israelis will either grow tired of the situation or
they will have to come to terms with a different and far
more unpleasant self-image.”

The. student, fresh. from. Bir Zeit-.Univeersity,
. Spends his.time doing social work in the villages in the
Ramallah district. A villager himself, he is-proud but
nevertheless. fettered by. the slogans of Third. World
ideology. ares .

A Letter From Israel

It is irrelevant, he argued, if a transitional period of
autononomy eventually leads to statehood because
“that is not a nationalist solution” and would eventem-
porarily by-pass the PLO.

The personal characteristics, and perh ps even the
failings, of the mayors and other “national leaders” are
also unimportant “because the masses. are behind

them,” and whoever is with the masses is “objectively _

right.”

He fears that the pro-Jordanian interests in the West
Bank are indeed ready. to replace the pro-PLO. mayors
whom the Israeli administration has removed.

There are many who agree with this, admitting that
the mayors and the pro-PLO councils, while enjoying

widespread: popular support particularly among, the .

young, still had powerful opponents.
They now expect the civil administration to make
do with the dismissal of Wahid Hamdala, mayor of

Anabata and a close associate of Bassam Shak’a. He is.
currently facing several charges before a miley

court.
“If they are clever, they will let things settle now

and not provoke reactions. After a few months all sorts _

of people will begin to show themselves and they will
not have to count only on the village leagues, which
have no real future.”

The businesman: “I don’t believe that it is so easy

to get rid of the PLO. They have money, power, peo-

ple—but itis impossible to say how long they will be
able to:hold on. Offering people money to oppose
them, however) i is hot enough.

“The situation in the Arab world is such that it en-

courages a political initiative on the West Bank. People

-to Jewish-controlled local councils —
_ ing People to think that something must be done quick-

‘of it—would not oppose this kind of initiative...

are saying that Israel exchanged Sinai for the West

Bank and the Bek’a Valley in Lebanon for the Golan
Heights. We are being sold out. The Arab states are
preoccupied with the Bab al,sharkia (the .“‘eastern

- gate” of the Arab world), he said, referring to the Iraq-

Tran war.

The accelerated pace of settlements, the planned
zoning laws that threaten to carve up the West Bank in-
“all this is forc-

ly.”
. There are those in the West Bank who are willing to

go ahead, but only on the basis of an understanding

from Israel that it is wiling to discuss three issues:
‘. The right of self determination;
East Jerusalem;
A freeze on settlements and land expropriation.
The issues should be discussed and agreed on in ad-

vance and in secret so that people can be free of unnec-
essary pressure. Israel should prepare things so that if
and' when it declares a willingness to. ‘include these
three issue on the agenda for duscussions, there will be
sufficient and organized opinion on the West Bank pre-
pared to-enter these discussions.

“7 believe that the PLO—or at least large sections
if the
PLO does not come round they will lose the people of
the West Bank,” said the businessman.

“But there is no point in creating an ‘alternate lead-
ership’ worth speaking of unless i itis offered something
substantial.”

Istael Still has’ some way to go before the leaders
whom Sharon and Milson insist are to be found can be
drawn into the open.

deaticies

- Jerusalem, Istael April 3, 1982

BRAIDING, COLORING, PERMING
AND
PRECISION CUTTING

Chu. FoR APRONTMENT 892-1533

AMAIN ST.CORNELIVS :

SMITH’S
FLOWERS

302 Smith Cirlce
Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

BARBER FOR MEN AND.
- WOMEN - -
: YOU NAME It —

WE'LL
‘Stier

-NORTON’S:
BARBER SHOP

MAIN STREET —

14°

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982
