Introducin

Wildcats

. This year‘s edition of the lady wildcat °
basketball. team. is a young squad, with »

no seniors. What follows is a short de-
scription of each player as given by
Coaches Mayes. and Boyer to hele fa-
‘miliarize you with the team.» >

Nancy Bondurant (So,g,No.11). Nan-
- cy is the most improved player on the

team from last year. Over the past few °

years she has gone from a role of not.

playing a great deal in High School, to *

an in-and-out player with Davidson last

year, to this year’s starting point guard. “
As she gains experience and confidence -

she will continue to improve. We would
like to see her start shooting more often
- because she has ‘a good outside shot.
Kathy Bray’(So,f-g,No. 15). Kathy is
the second fastést player on the team.
She is one of our most well-rounded
players. We can use her as either a small
forward or as a guard. She is a little in-
experienced and not used to playing in a
set offense. In addition to being fast, she
has a good shot, and is quick on de-
fense. She will see more playing time in

the future, as she becomes more famil-

iar with the offense.
Amy
»No.24). Amy is without a doubt the

=

Cats Grapple

The Wildcat wrestling team went up
against some “stiff competition”--in the
words of Coach Robert Estock--in the

Citadel Wrestling tournament this ‘past ’

Saturday. That competition included
South Carolina State and. the Citadel,
who took 39-6 and 51-0 respectively,
our Davidson, and Pembroke State,
which edged the Cats 25-22. Davidson,
in its turn, pasted East Tennessee State,

42-6.

“T think that South Carolina State and -
the Citadel were probably a little more
physical than we thought they would be.
I don’t mean to say we were intimidated
by them, but just surprised,” Estrick .
said.

Against South Carolina State, the on-
ly points Davidson picked up came as
192 pound Mike Herbert won by forfeit.

Davidson’s score against Pembroke
State was.a bit more heartening, as the

Wildcats lost 25-22. Davidson picked |

up three forfeits (at the 136 Ib. and 152
‘Ib. weight .classes).. Tom Oddo deci-
‘stoned Damin Tobin 4-2 in the 128 Ib.’
weight class, John Breéidinstine (160)
beat William Snipe-11-1 and Tom His- -
sam edged Jeff Lasey 6-5,

Crittenberger(Critter)(Jr,g- *

“ 2

in the Tourneys

iY

fastest player on the team. Amy never
played basketball.in: High School. In
fact, the first time was last year as a So-
phomore. She ‘has a very good idea of

how..a basketball gare ‘should be -
. played, but needs more time to refine -

her. skills in order to be able to Playat

that level. . )

Ann Elliott (So,f, No. 32), Ann is one
of the imost aggressive players on the
team, She has a very good concept of
the game, is very quick and has good
jumping ability. The biggest adjustment
for Ann, hs been learning to playin an
organized offense. As ‘she gains more
experience in this she will play ‘a Vital
role for the team.

Mike Frankhouser (Ir, f, No. 40).
Mike is one of the teams biggest scoring
punches. The Lady Cats look to her and
depend on her for points. In addition to
this, she is one of the teams top re-
bounders. Mike has an excellent know!-
edge of the game. She knows what to do
and how to do it. As one of the team’s
co-captains this season, Mike has done
a good job of keeping the team together,
and providing leadership on the court.
Debbie Hayes (So,g,No. 23) and
Cathy Morell (Jr,f,No. 25). Debbie

I was proud at the way we fought

. back against Pembroke after the South

_ Carolina State match; we came back >

and played it rough. I was proud of our
performance and would have been so
without the forfeits,” Estrock said.

The Wildcat gropplers got their ‘

chance to pick a win against East Ten-
nessee State. Davidson got there forfeits
and won every match except the heavy-
weight classification. Oddo. pinned
Dwayne McDermitt, Breidinstine
edged Joe Rodriques 112-8, Chris Tier-

nan (158) defeated Chris Prescott, Mike .

Kelly (169) pinned Calvin Smith and
Tom Hissam (179) pinned Mark Rud-
der.

“T was really pleased with this match.

__ It was a good performance by our guys. _
It was good to pick up that one. It was a

team win, and it was a win for each of
the guys.. If everybody takes care of his

own match, the team score will be there. .

That’s exactly what we got against East

Tennesse,” Estock said.

The Citadel only dropped one match,
by forfeit, in blasting Davidson.
The tournament was a good thing for

us. You, only get better by. going up

_ hament. This tournament is a good one

and Cathy play very similar roles for the

team. The people who play ahead of
them have more natural physical ability,
but Cathy and Debbie both do an out-
standing job coming off the bench.
They both have the ability to get right
into the flow of the game, without hav-
ing to “warm-up”. They are both very
dependable and can be counted on to do
just what we want them to, both offen-
sively and defensively, when we put
them ina game. Debbie and Cathy have
seen more‘playing time recently and
will see more in the future, as they gain
experience. _

Kerry Holbrook (Fr,g-f,No. 21). Ker-

- ry is considered to be more of a wing-

player than a point guard because her

~ strength lies in her shot more than in her

ball handling. She hasn’t seen much
playing time this year, but that is be-
cause as a freshman she laccks expe-
rience and at this time there are other
players on the team with more expe-
rience.

Sally Howell (Fr,C, No. 41). At 6’2”
Sally’s very presence is intimidating.
Her youth, inexperience in college bas-
ketball, have led to up and down scoring
games for Sally. She needs to learn how
to take advantage of her height and use it
more effectively. As a freshman starter,
though, Sally has handled the pressure

‘very well. She helps round out the scor-

ing and is one of the team’s top rebound-
ers.

| against good people, and Citadel, South

Carolina State and Pembroke State are
certainly qualified,” Estock comment-
ed

This weekend, the Wildcats travel to
Washington & Lee for a weekend tour-

- DAVIDSONIANY/ Friday 22 January 1982

g the 1981-82 Lady

Caroline Rumley (Fr,g,No. 12). As a
freshman, Caroline lacks experience. In
practice, however, we see in het the po-
tential to be an excellent point guard.
Her strength lies in her ability to pick
out the open person. As she gains expe-
rience, and thus composure, she will see
more playing time, if not this year, defi-

. Nitely next.

Mitzi Short (Jr,g,No. 14). Mitzi is
very quick, ‘and at times can stir up.
trouble on defense and cause the opposi-
tion to make alot of turnovers. Mitzi has
‘good knowledge of the game and great
ideas. She knows where the pass should
go; but she needs to learn to. be more
controlled with her ball handling and
passing. As she gains this control and
consistency she will improve her game
and be able to use what she knows more
effectively.

Jean Womack (Jr,f,No. --), As the oth-
er co-captain, Jean is-the team’s other
‘main source of leadership. Jean has out-

- standing quickness. She is the best and

most consistent defensive player on the
team, in both a zone and a man-to-man.
Jean has developed her shot this year
and is much more of a scoring, threat
than she was last season. (She and
Frankhousen are the teams leading scor-
ers). In addition, Jean is also a good re-
bounder.

by Kara Gilmore ’85

Photo by Neil Cooksey ‘83

for us and I’m looking forward to it, and
I hope the guys afe looking forward to
it,” said Estock.

619
