Dear Class of. 85,

you'll probably find at Davidson. The small group din-

A lot has been said in the last few weeks about the -ing system is unique to Davidson as far as I know, sO

relative merits of eating houses and the Commons,.
much of it: tongue-in-cheek, and most of it from ATO.
But this is a serious question and concerns more than —
one house. Jn talking to freshmen and teading what
they have to say, I get the overwhelming impression
that many freshmen have no idea what an eating house

is about. Most upperclasmen will wax poetic about’

how much they appreciate their House and the house
system in general. If that many people feel sostrongly .
about it, there must be something there.

This system is threatened now because there is a ri-
valing, -and at first glance, attractive alternative. The
ess of Slaterfood once drove people to the
Court. Now freshmen have to be codxed out of that
cavernous hall on the hill.

I don’t think. all ‘the houses realize this yet. The
Court is.in-real danger. Unfortunately, the biggest

change at Davidson in the next few years ‘will be the -
death of Patterson Court. ‘This change is not one of the:

ones Davidson needs to make.
Please don’t get me wrong. The Commons is a nice

place, probably. the most attractive and best run mass :

food production unit I've ever seen. But there are a lot.’

it’s hard to explain why people feel so strorigly about i it.
Ary: it. You'll probably like it.

I'd like to: point out some of the things you'll be
_ missing if you stay : at the Commons. Many have told

me they like the flexibility of having a two hour inter-
val to eat in. Is ‘it really such a hardship to meet with.

“your friends at the same time to eat every day? You’ ve
probably done it at home for years. You probably do it
“now also. _ All freshomma: year most of my tall ste: at
5:00.

- In many ways a house i is much more flexible. Try
calling Mr: Pritchard from Winston-Salem and asking
him to save you a plate of food because you can't get

to Davidson till 9:00, See what he says. And try
calling ext. 348 and asking them to send someone to

~ your room with food when you’ re sick like I did a few
weeks. ago. See how long you wait. Several houses’

have. open kitchen policies. I_ doubt: the. authorities
would look too kindly on a. midnight: ‘snack from the

Commons’ freezers. Is ‘it really flexibility you want?

Or are you afraid of change? Or ‘ignorant of what

you're missing?

What will happen to social life if the Court dies?

patties like the ones I’ve been to this year. Even if the
Commons does organize events it won’t be the same as
when a House throws one. A party organized by you
and 80 of your friends is bound to be better than one
done’ by a College committee of people you hardly
know.

But one of the best things about house is that you
always have a place where you belong. You can always
go down there. and find friends to talk, commiserate,

‘study, or just goof off with. You can play pool, or foos-

ball, or ping-pong or whatever the ‘pleasure of the
House is. It’s incredibly nice to curl up in front of the
fire with a Humes book. Or whatever you like to curl
up with. A dorm réom and a food barn catt get pretty
lonely:

Obviously everyone should: not join a house. , There
are some. who would welcome the anonymity and yes,

- inconveniences of eating at the Commons. Thurston
. Hatcher is probably one of those people. If he is so dis-

gusted. by. the” of knowing someone: who
washes dishes (or God forbid, doing them himself!), he
probably doesn’t belong in a House. At least not in

| Jeff Mann 84

of things it isn't. yA at the clonca {hing 'to a home:

Mr. ‘Pritchard 4s a nice man, but I doubt he:can throw

Lastpesd Dean Zimnmermann imade two students °
leave a.meeting dealing with college development. His.

lack of respect for Davidson students is sad considering
his position but is it understandable? Is it Dr. Zimmer-
mann’ *s view that we are so selfish and ignorant of the
world that none of us could possibly be interested in the
future of this college? Is he wrong?

Political awareness : a knowledge of and sincere
concern for the plight of human beings.

RUSK recently had an advertised party which be-
gan with the showing of pornographic films to a group
of women. This is an example of political unaware-
ness. Why? For a long time human beings have
struggled in the aneengt to treat each other more gently,

junly, and. with humane respect. By most accounts
women have suffered from exploitation more than men
and the battle to be considered as more that brainless,
baby producing workers goes on in America and
abroad (It really does. Ask someone who was in India
this fall or ask some women who have applied to a man
for a job inthis country). Pornography degrades hu-
mans. It seems that after what women have been
through they would be more sensitive to human sca
dation than to endorse pornography. .

Pornography whether at RUSK, PAX, or ATO em-

phasizes a totally physical view of people which many

- concerned women and men have worked to change.

Taking a light view of pornography is ignoring as, sac-

tifice of these people and it is ignoring the pain of those
who suffer because they aré not always considered as
thinking, feeling humans. Taking a light view of por-
nography is being insensitive to a friend who hurts for
being treated as less than.a whole person.

__, Part of political awareness is realizing what our ac-
tions say about us. Unless our actions command re-
spect, we will never get a foot into the office doors of
people like Dean Zimmermann. But more importantly,
does our level of political awareness command even
our own self-respect?

Frazier Worth ’82

 Pre-medical students.
Current undergraduate pre-medical students
may now. compete for several: hundred Air
- Force scholarships. These scholarships areto _
_ ‘be awarded to students accepted into medi- |
cal schools as freshmen or at the beginning —
of their sophomore year. The scholarship
provides for tuition, . books, Jab. fees, and.
equipment, plus a $530 monthly allowance. .
Investigate this financial alternative to the

_ high cost of medical education.
- Contact:

"USAF Health Professions Récriting
ee. So la

ARMY ROTC
LEARNWHAT
IT TAKES TO LEAD

For More Information Contact:

