riences; to organize activities in which
the. international stuents can interact
with ‘Davidson ‘Students, and increase
cultural exposure, and to use this com-
mittee as a medium forstudent aware-
ness of world issues,”
More than this, we would like to con-
tribute and to be active rather than pass-
ive participants in the realization of
those goals. We do not seek self-impor-
tance but to fulfill the potential for more
international dinners, presentations, op-

en luncheons, speeches and combined —

programs with other schools on_a more
regular basis. We feel that by taking re-
sponsibility ourselves that we can con-
siderably contribute to this.

There is really no “international com-
mittee confusion.” On the contrary, we
are grateful and enthusiastic about the
inspiration that initiated it. We thank
everyone who worked for this commit-
tee and we are optimistic about its po-
tential for the future.

Signed: The International Students

To the Editor:

The recent poem entitled “poem from
between my thighs”, created by Janet
Stovall in Hobart Park is the subject of
this letter. I am violently opposed to this
peom on three grounds. In the first
place, I don’t believe that Hobart Park
is the proper place for lucid description
of a-female orgasm. Her type of work is
evidently meant forthe writer, and not
for the reader; and thus it is not genuine
poetry.. It,is-obviously. something: very
personal to her and should be something
she should put up in her room so that she
can reflect upon it herself, not advertise
her sexual-forays:to the student body at
Davidson College. 261

In the second place, I have never
heard that it is necessary for a white fe-
male to experience orgasm as.a prereq-
uisite for creating works of art and liter-

ature, more specifically poetry. I per-
sonally take great pride in the achieve-
ments and contributions which my race
has made to civilization. I also believe
that the black race has the right to be
proud of the contributions which their
race has made to world culture. Howev-

er, thé author is making a racist attack

upon female members of the white race
by assuming that black women are more
sensitive or can feel more deeply about

- reality than white women. By this as-

sumption, ‘she ‘concludes that poetry
composed by black women combined
with the inspiration caused by an or-
gasm isla superior:art form.

Finally, Hobart Park is funded by the
Activities Tax Council, whose source of
money is my tuition: My tuition thus
awarded a $20 first prize to this poem. I
do not advocate censorship, but I be-
lieve that a majority of students feel that

a little more discretion could have been

used in regard to this poem: And to
award it first prize is a crowning blow of
disgrace to the entire situation, imply-

* ing that sexist, racist poems are valuable

works of art to be honored in Hobart
Park.

Tripp Robinson ’83

Hobart Park editor David Banks rep-
lies:

Take it easy. Janet’s poem is not
about orgasms or sexism or racial supre-
macy or contributions to civilization or
pornagraphy or prerequisites for beget-
ting literature. Instead she describes an
intense feeling, an overpowering emo-
tion in such a way as to invite the reader
to appreciate the sensation himself. Re-
call an emotion. Put it into words. Does
it defy verbal description? Is it 80 pow-
erful that you can, at best, only use a
vivid metaphor to summon the image?
If you didn’t find this in the poem, take
another look or else: you will have
missed some terrific writing.

Does she sterotype? Look: beyond it.
Does she use generic body-words? At a
college of 18 to 22-year-olds it’s a bit
odd that familiar topics like crotches,
blacks, whites; and musk have any
shock effect. Hobart Park is a collec-
tion of all kinds of original and even per-
sonal stuff that some students collect
from other students and show still other
students.. These people are classmates
who are your own age. They write
things and draw things and let you see
them. What distresses me is that some-
one who shares her profound and inti-
mate experiences with fellow ‘students
can be derided and castigated for shar-
ing them, and that someone who objects
to a contribution would prefer to have
been shielded from it altogether. There
is hardly a quicker way to stifle and stuff
emerging creativity.
David Banks ’82

~The Davidsonian an welcomes letters
our readers. We try to print all let-
that are of general interest, but we,
adhere to these four, guidelines:

s by Tuesday 7.pm.

__ (3) } We require that letters be signed]
J include the author’s phone number
address. If you have a compelling
for us to withhold your name, ex-

The Davidsoniat does not in an
way ‘endorse the opinions’ expressed i
letters that we print.

{1] We require that letters be in oury
[2] We require that letters be neatly}.

I Stewart Cauley, Editor

The Academic . nen
expanded: the 2
traditional book ‘club: into a
completely new and unique:
concept

SAVE 20

| ON ANY BOOK IN PReew: |

Save up. to. 50% °

selected tities.
eo NO. GIMMICKS ui
e NO.HIDDEN CHARGES
e AND -NO HARD SELL .

lof the year; unlimited

hoice of books;

land fast, efficient, personak.
iservice on every order.

ACADEMIC BOOK. CLUB -

$.A.: Cape. Vinosnt, New York 13618-0399
Caneda: 105 Wel St, :

K7L SC7
4891, 1005 AP Amsterdam,
Netherlands. ‘

be low, low prices every day

Africa: P.O, Box 49, laro, Ogun State,

Nigeria. ~
Dear ABC.

Please tell me, without any obligation on
my part, how | can order for myself and for
my friends. anywhere in the world any book
in print, from any publisher, from any country,
in almost any la 0.

Tell me in ‘addition w | can save 20-40%

on these books Joining the iereMiC BOOK
CLUB and ‘paying as low as

1 e daily. ($6.50 annually).

| understand that one of the features of the
club is that | am not now, nor will | ever be,
under any obligation whatsoever to to buy any
particular book or quantity of books. tror
Academic Book Club.
OETA OREL OT

Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy. Stroud, Neil
Cooksey, Eric Long, Kelly Sundberg

Staff; Mark Sheffield, John Hartman, Lucy Everett,
Jeff Holland, John: Verdi, Anne Goodwin, John
Krotchko, John Lusk, Lisa Buckley, Ivy Goodman .

Graphics: Susan Myers

Editor: Stewart Cauley

: Fine Arts Editor Debby Williams Advertising Manager: Karis Hernstein
Executive Editor: Brian Butler = | |
ee ie , . , ‘Calendar Editor; Susan Graves Old Hand: Killer
News Editors: Jeffrey Mann, Elizabeth Smiley
‘ Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin wes Unsung i the oo -
Sports Editor: teve Soud s iaesasbidecme oe ed '
nero tr: nes Gly, Dan Turk sn seg . oa or son ae ponerse

cequast, Geesad ease pesings autmdar USPS TER020 1.

a SY DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982 : - 3

oO one
¢

ce ee 4 St WBE
