) Record reviews with Jon Glance

The Blasters

“Aijlig the, gescek’of music’ that
have been grouped under the category.

“New Wave” is the rockabilly revival

movement. ‘Beginning in England .

(where rockabilly never ‘réally diéd

thanks to the teddy boys), the revival

has produced a ‘number of groups in-
cluding the Rockdis and Matchbox.
Perhaps the appeal this genre holds
for New Wave fans may lie ‘in the me-
moties it conjures of a time when rock
and roll was a way of. life and a real

feeling, rather than being merely the -

ponderous big business dinosaur rock
had become by the ’70s. Rockabilly,

the primal scream of American rock sources range from Professor Longh-
and roll, contains the spirit, if not the air second-line shuffle to Hank Will-- -
letter, of punk-youth: energy and re- iams yodel to Chuck Berry twang.
bellion, For this reason, it is not too The spirit of the album is captured

in L.A. last year. Obviously, this is
r ordinary rockabilly band.
stérs distinguish themselves

y their excellence in their play-
ing and y their faithfulness to: their
core of the band is two
brothers (Phil and Dave Alvin) who
grew up listening to Robert Johnson,
Carl - Perkins and» Blind Willie

McTell. Their music today is deriva- -

tive to be sure, but it is the music they
grew up with and not merely a slavish
imitation Sf, music from the past. The
Blasters play, by their own definition,
American Music. On this LP,. their

},,. Surprising that a band which draws in the opening song, which is called
_Aheavily on the roots of American rock by one critic “the best song Chuck (Ee es : ES
‘would. become popular in Los An- Berry never wrote.” This song is woman requesting a song on the sonally try to bring rock and roll back
geles, the new bastion for Punk (alias. | “Marie Marie/I gottwo weeksiin back ican border radio for her long gone tq a day when the songs meant every-
Hardcore. among the skins). pay/There’s gas in my car/And your husband, and hoping the dedication thing and nothing, and when the great
What is surprising is that this band folks say 1-must go.” The simple will bring him back to her. The direct- escape was a man and his car. It will
would be supported by such bands as __yearning of adolescent restlessness is ness of the lyrics captures feelings be interesting to see if the Blasters can
X, and would appear on Slash records so real in this song you can feet it. which might be lost by more intrusive channel their eclectic memories to
(an underground independent better,  , Most of thesongsonthisLPdeal with discussions of the subject. forge ahead to a new sound. If not,
known for hardcore. bands like. Fear). similar subjects—untequited love ’ . ‘they are‘ at least a refreshing switch
It is also surprising that these bands and traveling. One of the best of these The Blasters are more than just the _ from the heartless, faceless rock too
would vote the Blasters the best band is “Border Radio,” which has a lonely best bar band in the world. They per- _ prevalent today.

Booze Brothers

Yes, Spring Frolics has come and gone and if you
weren’t here, you missed it. We hope all:-you Davidson
men blew your money wisely, because the concert
committee sure didn’t.’ It's not that ‘we don’t® like
Southern Rock, but they wouldn’t even play Free Bird.
After seeing such a rousing performance Friday after-
noon we were inspired to see that the Davidsonian ad-
vertised White Animals at the Commons. We pur-
chased ‘our tickets, headed ‘on down, but we never
found them. All we saw was some funk band. We fig-

ured they had tobe the warm-up band, but they just

kept playing, ss'we pial Wop dakeing ‘Unfortunately,
the funk beat followed us out the door and. we were

forced ‘to hop in the. car and head: south: We finally
managed to shake the music somewhere. between Fuel

stopped for a drink at Limerick’s.

Limerick’s, formerly known as The Mineshaft Too

is located two miles down from UNCC on highway 49.
Believe it or not, this place isn’t all that bad. It’s a large
building with a restaurant upstairs and a separate bar

below. Liquor and beer prices are about average and

ais Tas <del fA os aka,
tee edie taty Sod Me eto

12

the interior is spacious, providing ample room for even
the average Davidson co-ed (freshman co-ed, that is).
The bar has been remodeled and provides a good set-
ting both to sip a beer and view the band from almost

anywhere within. Tables and chairs are placed in a —
low-lit area near the stage where one can conveniently.

leave his Davidson date and slip back for good times

with the UNCC women (try the far corner behind the

ice mngchinne we found some hot ones there)...

upon an excellent three-piece New Wave band out of
Charleston, The Killer Whales (not to be confused with
the Davidson field hockeyteam). The Whales. are; as

- <Charlie Lloyd puts it, “paced by.a very hot but stone-
* City and 1-85. ‘We tumed off on 1-85, hit 49 and

faced. drummer who sports a Charlie. Watts haircut.”

Mr, Lloyd went on to add, “I hope to see this band do .
an outdoor gig at the SPE house next fall.” We couldn’t _

‘agree more, Mr. Lloyd.. -as far as the choice of bands
‘goes, anyway.

Now, for you mud wreatling fans, we have received

inside word of a 2 out of 3 falls challenge match at

‘Luckily, the dit wiewieieed the ber we happened :

Johnny Dollar’s. The match pits Janet Ward “the
Crusher” Black, former Miss North Carolina, against
Teresa “the Python” Strawser, former Rhododendron

Queen. In‘ the girls’ own words, “This campus just

ain’t big enough for two beauty queens.” Sam Spencer
was asked to referee the match, but refused, insisting
he doesn’t know the girls, ‘has never heard of such
beauty awards before and is unsure exactly how to find
his way into Charlotte. A replacement is now being
sought. We'll have more details next week.

. Disco Update: Was there one this past week? If so,
we missed it. We were more concemed with Jimmy
Hawk’s (Booze Brother at ) and Rick Williams’s .

~ quest to drink a 100 beers in 4 100 hours. They did it,

but now we can’t find them. They a are believed to be

armed with a Budweiser and extremely drunk. If locat-
_ ed, please return them to:

The Committee on Alcohol Awareness

c/o Lafferty House
423.N. Main St.

__ or call: 892-2001. Operators are standing by. _

a

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982
