Center Moves Focus _

By JEFF MANN ’84

After narrowly surviving a bid to
close it last year, the Center for Special
Studies continues this year with a slight-
ly different focus.

Director of the Center, political
science professor Lou Ortmayer said the
Center is “trying to move towards its
emphasis on international studies” man-
dated last year by the Administration.

He said the Center will continue to
act as an “umbrella organization for all
students pursuing interdisciplinary stu-
dies,” which may include designing
one’s Own major, as well as initiating
programs having to do with the Center’s
international focus.

The Center has no permanent facul-
ty assigned to it this year. Instead of re-
ceiving several faculty positions to di-
vide among several teachers, professors
must now seek release time from their
departments to teach at the Center. Last
year, there were two and one-half facul-
ty positions assigned to the Center, or
enough for about five classes per term.

Aside from Ortmayer, only philoso-
phy professor Bob Maydole was re-
leased to teach one class this year. Ort-
mayer said he was “underwhelmed” by
the response from the departments in re-
leasing professors to teach at the Center,
and hopes “for a good bit more partici-
pation on the part of the faculty.”

Ortmayer said Fall term this year
was a “start-up” with only one class, on
international political economy, taught
by him. Four visiting speakers also con-
ducted two forums on Mideast and Pol-
ish affairs.

+
wes er

Dr. Turpin at the Center

This term, former UN Ambassador
Lafayette Diggs of Liberia is teaching
two classes on African politics. Philip
Palmedo of the Brookhaven/MIT Na-
tional Laboratory will come in February
to speak on energy and development in
Africa. Diggs and Palmedo are class-
mates of College Vice-President for
Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmer-
mann from Williams 56, who helped
arrange their visits.

Led by Maydole, six professors and
College Chaplain Charlie Summers are
team-teaching a seminar on the nuclear
arms race this term. Ortmayer said

208 Squirrels kille

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

The Davidson town and campus po-
lice recently conducted a “squirrel
shoot” to reduce the community’s over-
crowded and dangerous squirrel popula-
tion.

The Town Police have killed 208
squirrels since they began hunting in
early November. The Campus police
killed 62 squirrels over Thanksgiving
break. .

Mayor MacCormac said that “the
town is not interested in squirrel shoot-
ing as such” unless it is necessary for
eliminating, “a real health and safety
problem.”

Davidson Police Chief Jack Warlick
received numerous complaints about

the squirels from town residents during:

the last year. The squirrels have looted
gardens, frayed wires, invaded attics,
and stopped up gutters with nuts.

Last summer retired Biology pro-

fessor emeritus Tom Daggy “told the .

mayor something ought to be done”
about the squirrel problem. The town
called in North Carolina Wildlife Com-
mission Biologist Terry Sharpe to study
the situation. He recommended shoot-
ing as the most effective way of dimin-

ishing the population, because trapping
is inefficient and poison is too danger-
ous. ;

Daggy says that the overcrowding
posed an even bigger problem for the
squirrels. Daggy says there were “ob-
viously too many squirrels” because
they were “developing diseases” and
“were undersize.” Daggy says a bumper
crop of nuts last year combined with a
lack of natural predators caused a surge
in the squirrel population.

When squirrels, like most animals,
become “more crowded,” says Daggy,
“they become more aggressive.” Over-
populated squirrels are not as afraid of
people and often run in front of cars, ac-
cording to Daggy.

The Town Police shot the squirrels
with .410 gauge shot guns and .22 ca-
lilber rifles. They only killed squirrels
on public property and on private prop-
erty upon request. The police made sure
to shoot the squiurrels “at a high angle,”
according to Chief Warlick.

The Town Police gave two
members of the ROTC Department and
a few other people special permission to
help with the squirrel hunt. Captain
Hughes says the campus police took
similar measures; they never shot below

aps

MOR ae es

Profs. Gable, Maloney, Manning, Hess
and himself are contributing to the
course “in their spare time” on top of a
normal teaching load.

Dr. William Turpin is teaching a
seminar on the international monetary
system this term. Dr. Turpin is a former
Rhodes Scholar retired from the State
Department.

Ortmayer said plans for the future
were still being worked on, but he hopes
to “discover more untapped Davidson
resources” such as Dr. David Long °59
who spoke earlier this year on the Mid-
dle East. Ortmayer is also seeking out-

Photo by Angelique Foster ‘86

side funding for a forum on internation-
al business similar to last year’s Ethics
Insititute.

The College established the Center
in 1970 as the Honors College under
Prof. Frontis Johnson. The Honors Col-
lege became the Center for Honors Stu-
dies when Prof. Earl MacCormac took
over as Dean in 1973. Prof. Frank Bliss
became Dean in 1973 at the again-re-
named Center for Special Studies.
There was no name change this year,
but Ortmayer is Director of the Center,
not Dean.

‘What was killed was eaten’

a 45 degree angle and used short range
target ammunition.

Mayor MacCormac says the town
wanted *‘a limited number of people [in
the hunt] . . . whose marksmanship was
beyond question . . . and who would

proceed in an orderly manner.” The
town approved the hunt last summer but
decided to wait until the beginning of
squirrel season before proceeding.
Many residents ate the dead squir-
rels, and the town police froze the lef-
tovers for later consumption. The cam-

THE DAVIDSONIAN/10 December 1982:

pus police gave their dead squirrels to
many of the janitors and maintenance
men. “What was killed was eaten,” said
Captain Hughes.

The Town Police will finish their
squirrel hunt at the end of this week.
Mayor MacCormac says the town will
assess its effectiveness and “see if we
have a problem.”” MacCormac says the
town has not studied the issue long
enough but admits that it might be “an
ongoing problem.”

Photo by John Lyday ‘84
