From the Locker Room

Coach Hussey Gives Some Insights into Davidson Basketball -

Greiner, Iordanou

Walk into any athletic department
and ask the director (the grave man be-

hind the’ massive desk) what it takes to

field:a ‘winning team in college sports
todayaind he’ll have the answer quicker
than Greek’s knée'goes up on a'save. He
will undoubtedly reply “Money-”*Mo-
ney,, money, money; the sure way to
win.’ Buy ‘players, buy coaches. Hell,
buy ‘everything! The college sports
scene is truly capitalistic with one un-
recognized exception: the Davidson
soccer. team.

Ix1977 the team was: 0-16. This year

and Roberts

Charlie Slagle piloted the team to a 13-9
overall record with a 6-2 Southern Con-
ference record good enough for second
place. But here’s the amazing thing.
The team did all this with nary a scholar-
ship nora real increase in budget. Clear-
ly the team wins on heart and sheer love
for the game, not superior talent.

Much of the credit goes’ to second
year coach Charlie Slagle. Don’t think
we’re the only ones noticing all this,
either. Slagle was chosen Southern
Conference.Coach of the Year. His en-
thusiasm for the team greatly influenced

Gitls Look Forward to Division Il
Braggin’ Rights Against Meredith

The old coaches’ adage goes, “You
play the way you practice,” but the
women’s basketball team is having a
hard time living up to it. They’re not do-
ing in games the things they’re doing in

practice; and the UNC-G team proved .

themselves rather unwelcome guests as
they walked off with a decisive 67-40
won.

The Greénsboro defense was very syne:

gressive—a little too aggressive in fact
as they continuously harassed the Da-

vidson guards with a very. physical

game inthe backcourt. Although this

didn’t help the Cats. any, it certainly

didn’t. decide the game. Davidson did -

very little to support its own cause.
They simply couldn’t generate any of-
fense, and o suffered numerous def-
ensive.

Credit pe be given, though, toa
good Greensboro team: The visitors had
outstanding. scoring threats, both inside

and outside, who seemed | at times to be,

unable to miss...
Coach Mayes pa Oe, het feelings
about the § game, “The UNCG.

perhaps, ‘our most disappointing pind |

so far this year. The player eae didn’ t

do: what was expected of them on of-
fense. Instead of being disiplined: and
running the plays the way they do in
practice, they started to play a game of
free-lance. Without meaning to, they
started to play as individuals, each try-

ing to win the games themselves, in- -

stead of playing as a unit of five to def-
ensively, there was simply too little
communication. This allowed UNCG to

_ score a lot of points from the insi

Both Coach Mayes and Coach Boyer
said, “Despite the team’s record and the
disappointments of the last game, this
year’s team has definitely improved
over last year’s.. And even though it’s
difficult because of our record, the play-
ers have kept a.good. attitude, and the
outlook for the rest of the season is still a
positive one:’

The Lady Cats have one of their big-
gest games of the season.coming up at
home this Tuesday, January 26, at 7:00
P.M.; against Meredith, their only other
Division III competition in the State.

by Kara Gilmore

nail

down All-Confer_

its performance. .

Coaching alone does not ‘produce
winning teams, however. The 198} edi-
tion of Wildcat Soccer was laden with
talent ini several key- areas; especially:
defense. Senior goalkeeper Mike.

“Greek” Iordanou earned first team All- :
Conference honors for his steady play in.
the cage, and senior sweeper Terry
Greiner made the second team. Dan

Blood and Brian Hamilton played stel-.“:
lar defense as well, but the All-SC vo- -

ters neglectedthem. _..
On offense sophomore Chris Ro-

C-G Topples Women

- berts: was again the crucial cog in the

Davidson machine as he tallied 10 goals

‘and 7 assists for first team honors. Se-

nior Chuck Price and sophomore Peter
Burr were offensive keys as well.

The team has an even tougher sche- .
dule next season, with several top teams
coming to Davidson. The Wildcats will
have SC power Appalachian State in
their sights, and if they. gun down the
Apps, they’ ll be looking for first place.

by Steve Seud

or all.

005-BA- 201

Our ACA Occredited amp Seciauging
UL wacter ports (with added empnss

On land sports is looking
CUNEO of Doys ard oie petwean.
He 0H of 7 Salis Comdevs
muck Wave the ability to tendn in
ONE OC MOVE OF Ane coUNpe CLctivitie.

bp for n more information write: Campthundertad

4or portal

BE 7,Bor 0
Clave, S.C.240

18

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 22 January. 1982
