Opinions

Linki ad ta Sass laine tongrce with thi'og-
gacious words of Van Beck and go beyond into a not so
subtle ‘rejection of some ideas. emanating from the
mouths of professors. What prompts this article is not
the turbid logic of John Siman nor Elizabeth “call me
pollyannish” Kiss’s distorted and groundless view of
the diabolically imperialistic U.S: of A. No, what real-
ly hit me: was the acerbic attack on President Reagan

I thought I ‘would. go. to: the Ones Gelso: last
Wednesday. to hear realistic policies for dealing with -
caese Govenin coseol tad arveioe, Lak:

“ican oe eeu the, Dect at cote: dah
technology to the South. Students of Dr. Ortmayer’s. -
_ fall seminar-ar

seaniriye LE a irtt ke

Tam ta about

dream: of the third world called the New conomi
Order (NIEO). ‘Students of the senior economics ses-
sion also know. after listening to Dr. Behrman that the
NIEO is totally unrealistic. We still hear it from. the.

mouths of our. professors,’ though, ‘and some of you,

ensconced in your’ little: hermetically-sealed - world
away from the world, take itall in.”
icit to the NIEO is the distru tof free market for-
ces to solve many problems in ti ¢ third world. Judging
by P

to cut back defense spending while the Soviets arm in-.
exorably, I trust he also enjoys aligning President

Reagan eu, a eer "The -

n Cantey and: starvation. ‘Dhad

rofessor Hess’s emphasis on the transfer of resour- President
ces, brought about by our: “desire” to.reduce our stan-._
dard of liVing and our strategically dangerous volition -

problem is, capitalism works, universally. It is no

‘coincidence and certainly only marginally attributable

to race (I refuse to believe in Ubermenschen ) that the
highest growth rates have come in countries that have
taken the capitalistic road to development. In similar
geographic areas there are cogent examples: the Do-
minican Republic grew at an average seven percent in

~the 1970s while Jamaica’s growth rate fell -.7%. [hope -.

you can guess whichis socialist and which is capitalist.
Other examples abound; the Ivory Coast versus. Ghana
ete.in- all cases Where the economic freedom is.al-
‘lowed, everyone, rich and poor, has become absolute-
Jy Setter oft i Ssgpeioon to those being Grdgged ue-
‘der by the chains of socialism. :

Professor Hess’ s attack is much ‘more insidious,

‘however. President Reagan is not showing the leader-
ship to lielp these countries. The ; "s assertion

-does not stand the. test of truth: The U:8. ‘gives more
food assistance to developing countries than all other
Professor Bev 3 tiergeonel a _.,, nations. combine

ep hat 3a. ee Sranded simon two.
: om official dex ent assistance as any
“other nation, C Sontr to statements made, the Presi-
dent is es y free trade. The U.S. imported one-
Se iorweed nas Boor EBC dor

oping countries exported to the industrialized world

last year, even though our market is only one-third of
the size of the total industrialized world, These coun-
. tries in the Tast two years have earned ‘more from ex-

ports to the U.S. than the entire:developing world has

received from the World Bank in the last 36 years. , The

sreemr nt on Tariffs and'Trade that focus on réeiproc-
“ity. Some of the most awesome barriers to free trade
_ are present in the developing world, Brazilian tariffs on

a

seated make our look paliy, to name but one exam- =

Reagan’s “lack of leadership” as Professor Hess
phrases it, shows us his review of and failure to con-

. clude the Law of the Sea treaty. The President is in fa-

vor of the treaty but will not permit the forced expropri-
ation of technology. as envisaged in -the “Brazilian
clause” of the treaty dealing with deep sea—bed mining.
The: U.N. agency in charge has, under present treaty

~ wording, the right to demand the transfer of privately

owned technology to third world competitors as a con-
dition to gain access to minerals on the deep sea floor.

_ If logic. and Adam Smith serve me correctly, I cannot

envisage a U.S, company ‘investing in a long term and
expensive venture if it knows that that technology can
be forcibly transferred to its competitor. His‘interest in
the technology is not to sell it but rather to have a com-
petitive edge. If a lack of leadership is a sign of disap-
proval .of iskicentives to-tuvest, I amie for this
“Fack.”

J am dndieadblldeed that there ard peagle (profes-

_-soraand students alike) who distrust what has worked

for us, Japan, Taiwan and thriving third-world coun-
tries. People against: the marketplace what do you

_ want? We are not against aid but it must not be used to

help the governing elite get richer as has been many the
case,. rather, it-must serve as an ancillaty function to
trade. We can hardly spare one percent of GNP at a
time when’ our own problems are so great. Professor
Hess said he did not-want to sound too idealistic. I de-

tected Pabst gog 7c seer
- Smarks. Professors at Davidso
" <kable ‘answers! Students at

stand the teal world!

Bill Bargman

Creative hair aaa ae
- for men and women.

‘owner/stylist: Jane Schenck
: 1S7E. Rocky. River
Rd. petit
892-51 07 by appoint: |
ment only _

WOMEN :
YOU NAME IT — ‘WE'LL |
 STYLEIT

NORTON'S

MAIN STREET

vr2* DAVIDSONIA ( AN / Fridays Fabelavy 1982
