Opinions

Clark Dicusses U.S.-African Relations

If I had to summarize in one word what American
policy toward Africa has been. I would say “neglect.”
we just haven’t paid much attention to it. This neglect
is quite strange really when you think about it because
10-12% of the population of this country is made up of
people who came from Africa. American blacks have
been largely unable, economically to be a strong influ-
ence, because economic influences tend to be very
meaningful in a democrary.

It has only been very recently that we have paid
much attention to Africa. This has been true not just in
foreign policy, but equally true in American colleges
and universities, and in publishing. Our government
has been a fairly accurate reflection of American soci-
ety’s general lack of interest in Africa. In fact, it was

only in 1958 or 1959 that the State Department even ‘

had a bureau of African affairs. A lot of the reason for
lack of interest compared to that of a number of Euro-
pean countries is the fact that we did not have colonies.
We did not have a natural tie, a reason fo go to Africa in
the late 19th Century or even in the 20th Century.

It is very hard to begin to see any real interest in Afri-
ca at all until the very end of the Eisenhower adminis-
tration. At this time it was no longer possible to ignore
Africa entirely, because decolonization had begun.
Ghana, in 1956 to 1982 has been concerned with this
decolonization process.

It was really only with the beginning of the Kennedy
administration that we did begin to pay a greater inter-
est in Africa. We began to talk with someone of the lib-
eration groups, most all of whom ultimately became
the governments of these countries. Kennedy appoint-
~ eda very important person in his administration, Gov-
ernor Kennan Williams of Michigan, to be the Assist-
ant Secretary of State for African affairs. Not much got
done in terms of U.S. - African relations during the
Kennedy administration; but at least something was
started. Julius Nyereré, president of Tanzania, said
when he heafd-6f Kennedy’s death: “At least he tried.”

Johnson at first followed: ‘Kerinedy’s initiative in
developing U.S.-African relations but soon the Viet-
nam conflict drew most all of his attention and the fo-
cus of his foreign policy to South-East Asia. During the
last three years of his administration, Africa was again
neglected.

When Nixon came. to power he appointed Henry
Kissinger as his National Security Advisor, who im-
mediately emerged as the dominant figure in American

foreign policy from 1969-1977. To understand U.S.

forgein policy at this time is to look somewhat at Kiss-
inger’s own views, which were not unlike those of any
other Secretary of State, principally aimed at the East-
West conflict. Kissinger saw the great problem being
the Soviet Union;.all other problems were seen in rela-
tionship to‘ that.central.issue of conflict. If he became
interested in an African issue it would almost certainly
be.in a cold war context. Kissinger took relatively little

interest in Africa until there began to be some Soviet:

activity there.

In 1969, with the change in administration, Kissin-
ger, being a rather systematic person and a very capa-
ble mind, felt that he ought to have a massive study of
African affairs. He authorized what is rather famously
called, to African historians, NSSM 39 (National Se-
curity Council Study Memorandum 39). It just meant
that he had in the National Security Council several
people involved in taking a year-long study to see what
it ought to be in Africa. By January 1970 they had
come to certain conclusions. Kissinger was given sev-
eral options; he chose option 2. NSSM 39 was a secrete
document but has become well known in the period
since and published in book form. The NSSM 339 poli-
cy really governed the United States in African affairs
from January 1970 to January 1976, when it had to

change because of the Angola conflict.

What was the NSSM 39 policy? It was a policy
which said that white minority regimes of Southern
Africa were there to stay. It concluded that the regime
in the Republic of South Africa was very strong, that
the Republic was going to prevail, and that white su-
premacy would continue to operate in that govern-
ment. It concluded that the Republic of South Africa’s
retention of Namibia, or South West Africa, was a fair
accompli for the foreseeable future. The study con-
cluded that the embargoes had really not hurt the Smith
regime in Rhodesna very much and that throughout the
70’s and perhaps the 80’s the regime would stand. It
was a government that we would have to deal with.
Furthermore, the study claimed, the Portguese empire,
consisting « of Angola, Mozambique and Guinea-Bis-
sau, which had —- after all — existed for 500 years was
very solid -
and that the black liberation groups in ‘these countries

were very unlikely to be successful. The study also
concluded that we should continue to develop a rela-
tionship with the white minority regimes and that we
should not therefore give much encouragement or sup-
port to the black liberation groups as we had done in
terms of communication under the previous two ad-
ministrations.

“: We could not take such a position in public. The
Nixon administration decided that the government, if
required to take a position that was not favorable to
white supremacy in Southern Africa would certainly
not go out of its way to criticize the Southern African
regime. We were going to quietly take a position of co-
operation with Southern Africa. It was decided in the
case of Portugal, a NATO ally, that the NATO alliance
was very important to us. We supplied equipment to
Portugal which became a very big issue because some
of it ended up illegally going down to Mozambique
and Angola to be used against liberation groups.

It is always easier of course to see the Plaws of a pol-
icy with hindsight. We now knew that the NSSM 39
policy was very ill-founded, because. the white. re-
gimes, except South Africa, were not there to stay. In
April of 1974 there was suddently a coup in Lisbon and
the government of Lisbon was overthrown. The Lead-
ership of the military coup.established a democracy.
Because Angola and Mozambique were major territo-
ries for such a long time, most of the army officerrs in-

volved-with the coup had served in Angola or Mozam-

bique. A great number of them had become sympathet-
ic to the black Angolans and Moaambiquns; besides,
they hated going to Southern Africaq to fight. Quite
naturally, the first thing they did when they overthrew
the-government was to announce that Angola and Mo-
zambique would be given their independence. Bang!
Independence unravelled in Mozambique i in a rather

. easy fashion. There was only one major liberation

group and they emerged as the government of the coun-
try. It'was a group called FROLIMO, headed by Ma-

_ chel who becamie the president. In Angola a terrible

civil war occured in which there were three major fac-
tions roughly following tribal lines and in which we
and the Soviets got very much involved.
Meantime in Rhodesia. it became. increasingly clear
by 1974-1975 that the regime in Salisbury might in-
deed be overthrown. In fact, in 1975 Kissinger himself
came to believe that it should be overthrown.
At the end of the Angola war the administration de-
cided to give up the NSSM 39 policy, to change the
policy totally, and to now try to identify with the black
majorities in Southern Africa. This was characterized
first by aspeech Kissinger made in Lusaka, Zambia, in
August 1976, in which he called on Smith to give up
power of Rhodesia and‘on South Africa to begin nego-
tiations on Namibia. His method of operation ws to try
to work with the Republic of South Africa to try to get
them to bring pressure to bear on Rhodesia. Kissinger

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982 | 15
