Booze Brothers Change Gears and
Drop In on the Meeting Place

Too Many FIJI Parties Slow Kids Down

Booze Brothers, Number 3: The Meeting Place

After last weekend’s senseless massacre of billions

of brain cells at the Fiji party (we were there, brothers),
the BB decided it best to give our heads a rest and ex-
pand our format to include restaurant reviews. This
idea proved to be a good one as we hopped on the mag-
ic motorcycle and found ourselves at a gem of an alter-
native dining establishment. The Meeting Place (locat-
ed at 259 S. Broad Street in “downtown” Mooresville)
is perhaps the most unique restaurant in the Moores-
ville-Davidson-Cornelius-Huntersville-Concord pen-
tagram. Set in a house built in 1892 by a mysterious Dr.
Young, The Meeting Place provides a relaxed Victori-
an atmosphere with inside as well as outside porch din-
ing and offers a predictable yet comprehensive dinner
menu which includes seven beef entrees ($9-$14), five
poultry entrees ($8-$11) and five seafood entrees ($7-
$13). Each main course is served with a well-decorated
salad (house dressing is creamy sesame seed), a hot
' loaf of bread with whipped butter and cheddar cheese
spread and a choice of baked potato, home fries, or
french fries (not frozen). The lunch menu inlcudes sal-
as free coffee or tea and dessert with a luncheon pur-

ads, sandwiches, hamburgers and daily specials, such
chase of $3.25 or more (the usual lunch gées for four or
five dollars). Soups, appetizers and a full range of
homemade cakes and pies are available on both menus.

The Meeting Place impressed us with its authentici-
ty. Instead of relying on cheap fads to draw a crowd
(ringing bells, readable place settings, or loud and ob-
noxious waiters who won’t leave you alone), The
Meeting Place offers mellow entertainment and a fully
stocked bar. Melvin Shoemake picked and sang some
soothing and unamplified country blues and this made
the scene perfect. Customers weren’t expected to ap-
plaud after every song; instead, the music was just a
Pi of the easy, make-your-own-fun-and-conversa-
tion atmosphere.

‘The Meeting Place has a full wine list which includes
domestic and imported Reds, Whites, and Roses
($6.25-$13.25 per bottle), champagnes, and features
Inglenook as the house wine ($5.00 a carafé). Draft
beer (ud and Miller Light) goes for 85¢ia glass, $2.75
for a small pitcher and $3.75 for a large pitcher. The

bar also has a full range of bottled domestic and import-
ed beer ($1.00-$1.75). No liquor is sold at The Meet-

ing Place but brown bagging is fine with set-ups cost-
ing 75¢ a glass or $5.00 for a carafé.

The Meeting Place is open for lunch Tuesdays
through Fridays from 1 1:30-2:00 and for dinner Tues-
days through Saturdays from 5:30 to 10:00. Any in-
quiries are directed to Mike at 663-0413.

Granted, this place is a bit expensive for the average
college budget, but for a once in a while alternative to
the usual garbage food you probbly eat, The Meeting
Place awaits your business.

5 Seca if wey, avan!

QUEST'S

by SCOT MYERS

TO TELL MY DAD
Mou!

10

THE DAVIDSONIAN/8 October 1982
