Flying Trees and d Hardhats: “A Ta aste
of the Vereen Bell Winners _—_

What do flying trees,. squashed pennies, and a
hardhat filled with water have in common? They are a

few of the memorable images found in the three student

works receiving top honors in this year’s Vereen Bell
Writing Awards.

The winners are senior Victor Hawk, first place;
senior David Aldridge, second place; and junior
Kirsten McDonald, third place. Their work was select-
ed among 34 entries from 19 students by poet and Da-
vidson alumnus Charles Wright:

All three have the writer’s knack for the cut-of-the-

ordinary image, the one that hits the reader like a well- _

aimed punch, All three recreate a character’s “voice”
remarkably well, And all three touch on something im-
portant, some; elusive.and mysterious thing about hu-
manness, as only. an artist can.

..The. differences. among the winning entries are.

more striking than the similarities, however. Their
tones are whimsical or raucous, ironic or bittersweet.
Their styles range from traditional chronological narra-
tive to stream.of consciousness. Their sentences unfold
lananyoronils 2 quickie in series: af ee frag:
ments.”

A sureness of tone ma a aac wit Clavetoree
Hawk’s first-place. entry, which contains both a story,
“The Fugue and Barbra,” and a collection of poems.

“The Fugue and Barbra” is a puzzling tale of a young ;
couple’s encounter with “fuguing,” recurrent, unpre-
dictable periods of amnesia. Richard Jackson, the hus- -
band, icy sieenbee wee hard-cussin’ blue-collar ©
“in the third poem. It is “a straight and wide truth, la

nie

”. contrast ene

‘Meret Belly.cirea 1944-0 ps te

times the soul can slowly vanish | and some time later

_ reappear. on:the other side; hammancen grow in tun-

“1

nels.” BIH, 2 Me i at M

Inspiration, ‘that. * inoconiidisuotieen: roll, sudden

trillium | Sprouting out of the Jersey taxicab,” appears

Life You Save May Be Your Own.”

plantation in the woods, and
-of town, where there are no stree-
tlights or sidewalks and “they looked at you with hard
eyes. The heat, the thwack of the:ball into the glove,
and the warbling of the , beautiful and
inviolable state bird,; are al squisitely recréated:in a
story of great magic. .. /

“What Flannery. Forgot..to Say’ for Lucynelt;” ”
Kirsten McDonald’s third-place entry, is the imagina-
tive retelling of Flannery.’ Connor’sishortstory, “The
Life You. Save May Be: Your Own:? |») disc

“The Life You Save” tells of anencounter between
a one-armed homeless.man and an old woman and her
30-year-old retarded daughter. O’Connor’s ‘story is
really about the man, Mr, Shiftlet. McDonald retells
the story, from. the daughter’ $ perspective:

Lucynell’s world is a shifting kaleidoscope of
thought and sense fragments. She is. especially aware
of textures and tastes, like. Benjy, the retarded: man in
William Faulkner’s The Sound and the Fury. But there
is.a rhythm in Lucynell’s words, echoing the steady
routine of :her life, Diaicaisconseseun adie
poem.

Lucynell describes eating breakfast with her sninnhier: * ‘I
said nothing to her; 1 said nothing to her; 1 said no-
thing. It was the same, words or no words; no words
was easier. After filling, kitchen flowed to porch, am
and her wid; like always:'

' For Lucynell, the kitchen flowed; If is the wild
which moves around her. Sitting in the car, she. says,
“The blacktop drew town nearer and trees flew.” ~

Behind the story is a psychological portrait of Lu-
cynell. Her world divides into familiar and‘unfamiliar.
She craves the new, and is fasciniated-by Mr. Shiftlet
because he is new: “He was curious, like'a new week in

the front yard, or a strange cut on my familiar p

rubbing against my familiar face.” But she is afraid of
the unfamiliar and “shuffles with hesitancy” when Mr.
Shiftlet takes her to a restaurant. TSM Vib

_McDonald’s story “works” with or without “The

Licynell’s abandonment has a more powéiful note of

- finality in McDonald’s version. It is a: measure‘of the

author’s success in making Lucynell real that the read-
iarmuiembcnoancagrsihe sycrdepe on el

picasa wette “1sdt. vi Y
The tradition of writer )
