What Does It Take to Survive?

Lafayette Diggs, who survived a Liberian coup,

is teaching here this term

By JOHN KROTCHKO’83

The coup struck like a flash of lightning in the
night—sudden, unexpected and fierce. In the early
morning hours of April 12, 1980, soldiers filled the
streets of Monrovia, the capital city of Liberia. They
stormed the Executive Mansion and killed the Presi-
dent. In a matter of hours the ruling class, which had
dominated the country for over a hundred years, was
stripped of all power and influence, declared defunct
and banned. The master sergeant seized the reins of go-
vernment and called for the roundup of his newly disin-
herited enemies. The day of reckoning had come.

Lafayette Diggs, an ex-foreign service officer of
the William R. Tolbert government, was walking
down the street in Monrovia the next day when he was
approached by soldiers. They had been looking for
him. He was arrested, stripped naked and paraded
down the street at gunpoint for an “interview” with the
commanding general of a nearby military encamp-
ment. This was the typical treatment, and Diggs knew
that such “interviews” were little more than the formal
preliminaries to imprisonment or even execution. But
when he was brought before the general, he was sur-
prised to hear him ask the soldiers, “Where did you
find Mr. Diggs?” When they answered, the general or-
dered that Diggs be released, and provided a military
escort home!

In the terrible days that followed, the military cap-
tured almost every other-person who had any affiliation
whatsoever with the toppled Tolbert government, in-
cluding high-ranking military officers. In the horrified
presence of the international press, thirteen men were
marched to the beach, tied to telephone poles, and shot
to death. The rest were imprisoned. Some died in pri-
son, and some of those later released emerged perman-
ently disabled.

\

“When
Icame to the United States
in the fifties, I found out that
I was...not a member of the ‘in’
group. It gave me a completely
different understanding of what
it Means to suppress people.”

Lafayette Diggs, however, remained a free man,
and after a period of hardship established himself in
private business as the assistant manager of an electri-
cal applicances company. This winter, he is at David-
son College teaching in the Center for Special Studies.
In Liberia, he leads a relatively quiet life with his wife
and two daughters. Most of his former government col-.
leagues are gone.

How did this twenty-year veteran of a government
violently toppled by the military manage not only to
survive, but to emerge relatively unscathed from the
turmoil? One of Diggs’s favorite sayings is, “Only the
lucky survive.” He did not know the general who re-
leased him, and could not understand why he had been
so lucky. But luck, good or bad, had little to do with the
reasons for the Liberian coup d’ état, and less with the
circumstances of his release than he knew.

Liberia is a small country on the western coast of
Africa, with a population of about 1,860,000. It is rela-
tively young, as countries go. During the 1820s, two
American philanthropic societies organized groups of
freed black slaves to return to Africa and begin a new
life there. In 1822, the first ex-slaves arrived on the
coast of what is now Liberia, on the “Ivory Coast,” and
colonized the area with support and encouragement
from the United States government. They established a
healthy trade economy; rubber and cocoa developed as
major export products and before long the American
commonwealth petitioned for colonial status. Reluc-
tant to assume the responsibility for an African colony,
the U. S. instead encouraged the settlers to declare in-
dependent statehood for themselves, and in 1847 Libe-
ria, the “land of liberty,” was born.

From the onset of colonization, however, there ex-

isted a distinct cultural gap between the American .

blacks and the ifidigenous black population. With su-
perior weaponry, wealth, and education, the Amer-
icans attempted to Westernize and Christianize the in-
digenous people (a pattern, Diggs noted, which was re-
peated throughout Africa during that time). The social,
cultural gap between the “Congo people,” as they were
later called, and the indigenous groups remained wide,
despite intermarriage and population mixing. The
settlers were the wealthy, educated, socially elite; their
closely-knit families controlled government and prop-
erty. They ruled over the larger majority of poor, uned-
ucated, predominantly Moslem natives. Diggs inter-
prets the 1980 coup in this light:

The Liberian settler elite became so complacent,
they were so satisfied with . . . the so-called “stability”
of Liberia that they just forgot that what they had been
doing for 130 years was actually suppressive to the vast
majority of the Liberian population.”

In contrast with the elite setlers, the Liberian army
has always been comprised of the lower class. It
seemed obvious to Diggs that a toppling of the elites
was only a matter of time. The insight with which he,
unlike almost everyone else in the Tolbert government,

viewed the situation can be traced back to his experien-
ces as an American scholar and a foreign service offic-
er.

Diggs left Liberia in the 1950s to study at Williams
College in Massachusetts. He was a young man from a
prestigious Liberian family that was ensconced in a
closed, isolated society. He had little knowledge of the
outside world. What he experienced in American soci-
ety and at Williams changed his life.

“When I came to the United States in the fifties, I
found out that I was considered as a person who was
not a member of the ‘in’ group,” he said. “It gave me a
completely different understanding of what it means to

“No one can ever really stop
learning...This is one of the
things that the people in

Liberia forgot.”

suppress people . . . That was part of my education
here. . . . You think you are somebody at home and you
come to the United States and find out you are no-
body.”

Despite the racial prejudice he experienced in
America, his experience here was far from negative.
He credits Williams College with completing his edu-
cation and significantly expanding his world view. Up-
on his return to Liberia he joined the Foreign Ministry
and began a career as a foreign service officer. Be-
tween 1956 and 1979 he served in various diplomatic
Capacities to several African nations, including Mali,
Lagos, Ethiopia, Guinea, Kenya, Nigeria, and Ugan-
da. In addition, he served in various capacities as Lib-
erian representative to the United Nations.

As Diggs’s career progressed and his foreign expe-
riences broadened, he tried to warn the Liberian go-
vernment of the dangerous social injustices predomi-
nating in his country. But his efforts proved futile. “I
tried,” he said. “Sometimes I felt just like Jeremiah, a
voice crying in the wilderness. Nobody wanted to
listen to me. Nobody believed me.”

Diggs’s perception of the Liberian situation manif-
ested itself in the way he related to people both home
and abroad. He was careful to treat his subordiantes
with sensitivity and respect, among peers who did not
hesitate to have subordinates whipped to settle a dis-
agreement. He -was considered something of a naive
maverick, yet, he finally learned, it was this kind of
naivete that saved him on the day of the coup. Before
resigning over personal disagreements with the Tolbert
government in 1979, Diggs held the post of Executive
Director of the 1979 Summit Conference of the Organ-
ization of African Unity, held for the first time in Libe-
ria. One of the many government employees who
worked under Diggs during the preparation for the
summit was the army general before whom Diggs was
brought on the day of the coup. Diggs never knew him,
but the man knew Diggs and remembered him, and
consequently released him. Diggs has another favorite
saying: “It is nice to be important, bnut it is more im-

8

oe ae el

dos Mee wae ate! Vr re ar a ry

“tou
