Continued from page 22
hammer each other constantly. We call

it “The Hammer,’ you know—teasing |

each other, keeping the humor going be-
cause maybe it disguises being uptight
as a first year staff because we really
wanted to be successful. This was a big
—this was an awesome recruiting year
for us. We had to get things done. If we
didn’t we’d be a:year behind, and we
came in a year behind. We tried to really
help each other with the humor, and I
think that’s what really helped. I think
that really gave us the push to go over
the top and get-these kids.”

And get them they did.

After such a fantastic recruiting
year, do they vacation in Bermuda?
Well, maybe next year. But for now,
they’re working on the class of 1983.

Steve Soud ‘84

Sisco Wins

Last weekend’s Southern Conferance
Meet at Furman produced good results
for Davidson’s runners; While David-

son scored only 17 points, most.of her .

tracksters turned in their best. perfor-
mances of the year and the team left
Greenville in high spirits. = ~
Lance Sisco spent Friday afternoon
qualifying for the-finals of the. 110M
high hurdles. His 14.8 in winning his
heat was the fastest qualifying time, and
Lance looked relaxed and under control
t the race. The stage was set
for his final hurdles race the following
day as Lance was placed in lane 5 in the
draw for positions.

Other Friday running included the
10,000 m run in which Jack Smith ran
33:31, only 3 seconds off his best. He
did this after spending most of the win-
ter recovering from achilles tendonitis
incurred in January’s Charlotte Ob-
server Marathon. Also run on Friday
were the heats of the 800m run. None of
Davidson’s runners qualified for Satur-
day’s finals, but John Hoots, Dave Stos-
ur, and James Gelly all ran excellent ra-
ces, recording 1:58.4, 1:58.5, and

1:58.5 respectively (although one might

wonder whether Gelly’s lap times of 54
and 64 seconds represented the most ec-
onomical way of getting to the finish
line). Brian Brost ducked under 52 se-
conds in the 400m heats, thus producing
his best time of the season.

Davidson’s 17 points all came with-
in a 5-minute span on Saturday. Presag-
ing this outburst. was Frank Ivey’s
4:00.7 second place time in the first heat
of the 1500m, although his time did not
qualify him for a scoring position. Im-
mediately thereafter, Ray Sinclair un-
leashed a 15.01 meter throw in the shot
put to nail down sixth place. Then Jeff
Carter sprang into what was easily his
best jump of the day to scrape over 6’
10”, the bar quivering as he ran off the
mat. This jump was 2” over Jeff’s pre-
vious best and is a school record, replac-
ing John Stanfield’s 6’7 3/4”. It also
won third place for the freshman from
Charleston, W.Va.

Simultaneously, Lance Sisco found
himself in his blocks at the start of the fi-
nals of the 110m high hurdles. At the re-
port of the starter’s pistol, Lance ex-
ploded cleanly out of the blocks, his

start carrying him into the lead through

hign rmurdies

the first two or three hurdles. The rest of
the field made up ground on Lance in

"the middle flights, and partisan David-

son - standers-by wondered whether
Lance could hold his lead. A powerful
run-in from the final hurdle to the tape
eliminated all such worries, however,
and Lance crossed the line jubilant,
waving ihis arms in the air. He had
covered the distance in 14.4 seonds.

The conference meet was won by
Gelenaing Champions v mu, aitnough a
dispute over the 800m finals left that re-
sult in doubt as ASU was close enough
in the final tally to slip ahead should
their runner be reinstated in the results
of that race. The 800 was won by East
Tennessee State’s Kevin Johnson, who
also won the steeplechase and 1500m
runs, and placed second in the 10,000
and 5000 to take the honors as athlete of
the year in a most impressive weekend
of running. The next and final athletic
meeting for Davidson’s tracksters will
be the Geek Memorial Mile to be held
on Whittle Track (that’s here at David-
son) at 3:30 p.m. on May 2.

Jeff Hamilton ‘82

. Although pro football scouts weren't exactly bang-

44 ing the doors down to catch a glimpse of the ’81 Wild-

cats, seniors Ray Sinclair and Brian Whitmire were
elated when scouts called them Thursday.
Althoug there was some speculation that fullback
Ray Sinclair might go in the last rounds of the draft, he
had no such luck. Sinclair, a 3-year starter and holder
of Davidson’s career rushing yardage record among
several others, signed a free agent contract with the

Seattle Seahawks.

Quarterback Brian Whitmire, a starter as a junior,
"was platooned with Keith Martin this year. Nonethe-
less Whitmire drew the eyes of the Oakland Raiders,
‘Super Bowl champs of two years ago. Whitmire signec
-a free agent contract with the Raiders this morning.

_ DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982

23
