Volume LXXIil, Number 16

Student Aid Cut

_The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Around theCountry

The cuts in federal college programs
made last year really won’t hit home un-
til. next fall.. But. already, they’ve
changed campus life in scores of overt
and subtle ways: a student migration
from private. to public colleges has beg-

- un; Out-of-state students are going back
home to school; administrators are toy-
ing with exotic new tuition charges; mi-
nority students are dropping out in re-
cord numbers; there are fewer student
services available on campus; campus

health’ officials: are even wortied-that.
student stress levels are. dangerously...

high.

Now President Reagan is proposing
even deeper cuts for 1983, a prospect
that college officials around the country
find absolutely terrifying.

In what has been called a “historic”

gathering, representatives of the largest

and rgost important collegé groups in
the land last month to’ preview with
alarm — and to politically surprise —
President Ronald Reagan and the 1983
education budget he wants Congress to
pass.

Representatives of state schools,
private universities, community . and
junior colleges, students and faculty
members bitterly predicted that as many
as two million college-students will be
hurt by ‘the cuts. Thousands of them
may be driven from campus altogether.

“Deep. cuts have already been made
in appropriations for student: financial
aid,” summarized Ed Hanley, lobbyist
for the U.S. Student Association (US-

_ SA). “Further cuts are going to keep
thousands of students from returning to
college this fall, and others will never
get to.attend college at all.”

. :The spokespeople, solemnly facing
ani audience of reporters and association
staffers in a House committee hearing

room, said the Reagan education budget’

would affect all federal student aid pro-

grams:
PELL GRANTS

_ According to numbers lontvert to the z

press, the administration wants Con-
gress to cut funding for Pell Grants by
40 percent. Only students from families
earning less than $14,000 a year could
get the grants, compared to a limit of
$27,000 this year. The maximum grant,
moreover, would be $1400, down from
$1670 this year.
SUPPLEMENTAL EDUCATION-
AL OPPORTUNITY GRANTS
SEOGs, which currently serve some
615 000 college. stents, would be

Under the NDSL program, created
during the Eisenhower administration,
250,000. students -now get ‘low-cost
loans to pay for school. The administra-
tion will ask Congress to end alll funding

‘for NDSLs.

COLLEGE WORK-STUDY PRO-

_ GRAM

The Reagan budget calls for a 27
percent funding cut for this program,
under which the federal gevernment
helps colleges. pay students working
their way through school. Observers es-
timate some 250,000 students will lose
their jobs as a result of the cut.
STATE. STUDENT INCENTIVE
GRANTS

- The SSIG fund matches grants made
to students by the states. Fhe adminis-

tration wants to end the program entire-

ly, which this year serves 300,000 stu-
dents.
GUARANTEED
LOANS

About 3.5 million students took out

. STUDENT

GSLs this year, but the‘adininistration

wants to-cut drastically the number of
students eligible for them in the future.

Reagan proposes to eliminate all gradu-
ate and. professional schoo! students
from the program, double the toan origi-
nation fee to 10 percent of the toan

Continued on page 1g

Friday 19 March 1982 |

Back row: Alessandro Vitelli, Adam Duncan, David Osborne. F ront row: L to R,
_ Alexandra Ehrmann, Emma Howard, Hester Abrams, Tracy Corrigan.

, See Story page 6

Alter Davidson Life

President Reagan’s proposal to
eliminate 2.2 billion dollars in Federal
Student aid would force Davidson Fi-
nancial Aid Office to find additional re-
sources for over 500 students currently
receiving monetary assistance.

“Historically , Davidson College has
been committed to. meeting one-
hundred percent of demonstrated finan-

cial need, ” said Associate Director of

Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson, “If
proposed federal budget cuts become a
reality, additional institutional dollars
will be required to continue to meet one-
hundred percent of demonstrated need.”

'. If Congress approves the Fiscal

"1982-83 cuts, Davidson will lose almost

50% of its federal student aid alloca-

tions. The College. will-need an extra .

$240,000 in: institutional funds in FY
1982-83.and $600,000 in FY 1983-84 if

the budget cuts go through, according to

_ Grants (formerly Basic Education Op- —

Stevenson.

Under: the proposed financial aid
cuts -Davidson College will lose
$160,000 in funding from the Pell

work-study program, and $50,000 from
Supplemental Educational Opportunity
grants. The Reagan administration also
intends to terminate new federal outlays
for National Direct Student Loans and
to require students to demonstrate need
in order to quality for the Guaranteed,
Student Loan program.

164 students receive money from
the Pell Grants, 144 from the work-
study program, and ninety-seven from
the SEOG. Eighty-two students rely on
the NDSL and almost 350 students be-
nefit from the GSL program.

Other colleges, such as Wesleyan
and Cornell, will compensate for the re-
duced funding by stopping “financial
blind” admissions policies. But David-
soh does not intend to resort to such te-
gressive practices.

' “The College is committed to mak-

ing admissions decisions based on aca-
demic and personal qualifications,” said
Associate Director of Admissions
Gardner Roller, “It is our fervent hope

Continued on page

. pormaalay Gene), 9116.09) need oe

