Open Meeting Closed

When we came to Davidson four years ago) thie col-

lege community indoctrinated, us ‘with the notion that
the Davidson Experience includes open discussion of
common concerns. We find that the College’s litera- all.

ture supports this feeling of openness. For instance,
section 5(b) of the Constitution of Davidson College
says:

“Students and thei¢ organizations are free to

examine: and discuss all questions of interest and ry
to express opinions publicly and privately. They

are also free to support issues by orderly means
which do not disrupt operations essential to
the function of the College, which shall.establish
‘reasonable regulations; equitably applied, as'to..
time, manner, and place‘of assembly.”
Also, “The Case for Davidson College,” which pres-
ents.the famous 1987 Program, says, “They [the stu-
dents} live together im.a ‘community of fellowship,

shared with: ‘faculty. meh eeat: and with other residence

of the area.” |

One issue of concern for the Davidson community is
the College’s development program. The College’s fu-
ture, financial and otherwise, depends on it. Vice Pres-
ident for Development Jack Powers said in an inter-
view tast fall, “People really give because they have a
sentimental attachment to an institution,” and during
his time of office-he ha$-attempted to foster such senti-

ment among students by involving them in the Col-

lege’s development program.

Last Tuesday professor Robert Maydole invited us

to what. he thought was.an open meeting for discussing

development policy. We decided to attend. Before the
meeting; began Vice President for Academic Affairs

Price. Zimmermann told us to leave. “This is an open

meeting for the faculty, Mot an open, meeting. for the; ..

community,” he said, Noticing that other non-faculty
members were present, we asked Dr. Zimmermann
why he required us to leave while permitting others to
stay. He replied that he invited them to come. We
asked him by what authority he excluded students from
such a meeting, and why he was so concerned to see us
leave. He said that he did. not want to argue the point,
that he had decided to exclude students, and that the
College would publish the content of the meeting when

he denied fit. We begrudgingly acquiesced to his de-
mands. Drs. Stell and Maydole told us after the meet-
ing that they had not discussed evelopment policy at

We have these complains: mie
1) Dr: Zimmermann arbitrarily ‘decided: whom he
would allow to attend this meeting, which was of inter-

.. est to the whole Davidson community. ft
2)He gave no reason for excluding us from the meet-- J. ~

ing, and we can see no reason why he should have.
3) He justified excluding us solely on the basis of his
self-assumed authority.

We cannot help but wonder if he often conducts af- | -

fairs in this manner. The: vincident reminded us of sever-

-al of Dr. Zimmermann’s past actions, such as the firing

of Dr. Koller, and the controversy last spring ‘when the.
administration turned down the religion department’ s
recommendation that the College hire a female gradu-

ate of Florida State University to fill one of their vacan-
cies. In neither:case did Dr. Zimmermann give any ex-

. planation for his decision.

If Dr. Zimmermann makes a habit of behaving auto-
craticly, we fear Davidson must suffer. After all, are
we committed to the search of the truth: or Dr. Zimmer-
mann’s opinion. We find it: very difficult to develop

any sentimental attachment to.an ‘institution whose of- -

ficers behave in’such a manner.~ *°=~~
. If you want to find a “community of fellowship” and

an arena for open discussion of community concerns, :

then avoid the administration, ler a ae
4 geek aot bhatt

*

Pee cab ww a
Editor’s Note: .
. Fok Bias 2 > sai r
Dean Zimmermann’ explained that the’ non, mificuly at
the meeting were staff members and faculty wives sit-
ting in for their husbands. He also added that the stu-
dents who showed up were not invited. (Dr. Zimmer-
manin, ‘as presiding officer of the:-faculty, meeting, has’
the constitutional power to decide which guests are ap-
propriate for faculty meetings.)

“es

north o

TO THE FACULTY

Ly

TCPZ:na_

DAVIDSON COLLEGE —
Davidson, North Carolina 28036. x

January 19, 1982:

Members of the Faculty are invited to attend an open meeting on Tuesday,
January 26, at 4:00 p.m. in The Gallery. A presentation of. Some of the long-
; -Fange plans for future construction will be given by Mr. Meet ze and Dr. Powers.

T. C. Price Zimmermann

20

Hell.

Apostolics
and the

New Right

This past weekend I travelled to Youngstown, Ohio
(in the tradition of Bo-Ho) to see a young Apostolic
women to whom I had been writing for some time. I’m
a Presbyterian PK (preacher’s kid), and whatever be-
liefs I hold about God:and religion in general are very

liberal. Apostolics, on the other hand, are notoriously

conservative theologians. Consequently the subject of

religion never surfaced in our correspondence.

med night in a Harvest House coffee shop in a mall
Youngstown, the long avoided subject came
up. I wasn’t quite ready for what she said. What she

"said had a lot to do with Apostolicism and what the new

“right has potential to become.

met the young lady last summer when she sat at my
- tables (I was a waiter) at Massanetta

Spitiigs, a Presby-
terian conference center in Harrisofiburg,. Virginia.

She was there at “camp,” a conferen¢e.of Apostolics
= | from all over.the US and Canada. Despite: the fact that

"yey rr) a = there were, 900.conferences, and.Massanetta is really
sy King a stink Whalen 82 ‘}-.only suited for conferences of 500 or so, the “Apple
~~... | Streudels” as they were affectionately called were the

Haxorite conference of the summer staff: With one mi- .
> nor inconvenience. Couples on the staff weren’t’al-
, lowed to hold hands, and young ladies and men were to
" dréss a little more conservatively. You see, the rumor
among: staffers was Apostolics coulga’t even hold”
hands until they were engaged.

I had no factual basis for this rumor, so as I received

_ each letter I carefully perused it to see if I might cull
“any clues any clues as to the rumor’s validity. I never
‘really did. She went to see movies, often of R rating.
~ She listened to pop radio, and her favorite song was the’
blatantly sexual ‘After the Lovin’ .” ‘Perhaps the rum-
_ors were fallacious after all! ;

How wrong I was. I learned a lot in: that Harvest
House.

To begin with, Apostolic doctrine holds that she
shouldn’t be writing to a guy, much less getting into a
car with him. She’s pretty well on her way to a life of

sin and corruption already, and it doesn’t help that I’m

a non-Apostolic. Naturally they weren’t. allowed to

hold hands, kiss or even touch until engagement.

Apostolics ‘aren’t allowed to go to movies; ‘either.
Something about Satan. They use the same ar, pent
about pop music. The gates of Hell gape Gpeny

~ Vie-goers.

Young ladies aren’t to use makeup, and jewelry is is a
no-no. She explained the logic behind th
mandments, “You're supposed to like: -what,God gav
you to begin with.” Wearing makeup is a statement of

_ ingratitude to God.

This young lady, it turns out, is a heretic. After our
coffee shop. talk we saw “On Golden Pond”, and

~ throughout I teased her about being’'a sinner. She, like

most girls her age, enjoys pretty clothes and wears ma-
keup. That’s right, she was long ago condemned to

Ge .,.Continued on pag age 2 1

“DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 January 1982
