Growth is No Kind of Goal

Bill Bargmann’s rather opinionated article of last
week establishes him as the leading campus spokes-
man for the “new Right”, or what I call “neo-mercanti-
lism.” More than anything else, Bill’s article ws about
The Market: it works, he says, Universally. Free Trade
and Capitalism work, The NIEO (New International
Economic Order) distrusts Free Market Forces. Mr.
Hess enjoys maligning Reagan’s phrase “the magic of
the marketplace.” Mr, Bargmann i is sadly mistaken if
he takes someone’s interest in the NIEO as Proof that
someone distrusts “what has worked for us,” meaning
the Market. Anyone who knows any economics at all
will agree that the market is the most efficient way of
allocating resources. We got that in ECO 101 along
with Adam Smith and Matthus and Ricardo. And when
we had learned all that 18th century theory, we moved
on to such esoteria as market imperfections and mo-

nopoly capitalism. ‘We learned about many of the
things which disturb the smooth workings of the vener-

- able Mr: Smith’s metaphysics. For instance, Smith

was a man of his times and his class, and he assumed
that the work force naturally hovered around a subsist-
ence level: Too many workers will lead to lower
wages, some starvation or emigration et voila(!) the
body of laws to be ratified by some global government,
go back and read it again. It is rather an important set of
values that could do with a bit of attention. The NIEO
is a description given by rational men of our predica-
ment: the madness of devoting our best minds to neu-
tron bombs and electric toothbrushes whilst 4 majority
of the world knows only squalor, disease and despair.
If you disagree with the motives behind the NIEO, then
have the honesty to admit that all you care about are
your comfortable surroundings and priviledged life
style. The NIEO is an expression by good men that the
way this world allocates its resources, nevermind your
18th century faith, is immoral. Don’t sit there and tell
decent people that the NIEO is some pathetic set of res-
olutions passed by some air-head intellectuals, com-
plaining about “the way the world really works.” Your
world really would be hermetically sealed if your be-
lieved that. .

Mr. Bargmann writes that Mr. Hess exphasized the
transfer of resources brought about by our “desire” to
reduce our standard of living. Besides taking Mr.
Hess’s open lunchedn out of context, Bill has unwit-
tingly revealled two current American obsessions: the
standard of living and a paranoia of the Soviet Union.
As for the former, if Mr. Bargmann can’t look around
him and see the waste, the excesses, and the churlish-
ness of today’s living standards, especially when com-
pared to areas of mass starvation, then saints preserve

"Miss NORTH CAROLINA/USA PAGEANT”
ENTRIES OPEN!

The search is on to find Miss North Carolina/USA for
1982. The winner will represent her state at the 1982
MISS USA PAGEANT tobe televised nationally on
CBS. The 1982:Miss North Carolina/USA Pageant
will be held March 5, 6 & 7th in Winston-Salem
with the contestants the guests of the Downtown
Ramada Inn. To qualify, applicants must be
between 17 & 25, single, never married or been

c parent, No talent competition required: FREE
ENTRY INFORMATION CAN BE OBTAINED AT. -
FOOD WORLD STORES or send a recent snapshot,
name, address and telephone number to:

MISS NORTH CAROLINA/USA
C/O TEL-AIR INTERESTS, INC.
1755 NE, 149th STREET

MIAMI, Ft33181(305) 944-3268

Lisa Swift
Miss North Carolina
USA 198)

him. Mr. Bargmann’s is a voice crying out in suburbia
for “realism”. Well, what is less “real” than expousing
Market clears itself! So much for the invisible hand. I
have seen it and it is shaky.

My dear Mr. Bargmann, why is it that such men as™
yourself and Mr. Reagan overlook the confusing com-
plications of an otherwise pleasing theory? You, for
one, have no excuse. If you understood the NIEO as a
phrases and maxims from the 18th century? Laissez-
faire, of course, means “to leave to do”. In other
words, it is the policy of inactivity. The NIEO is vitally
important because it is the statement that today’s pre-
dicament will not be solved by our inactivity. Mr.
Bargmann, what is more real than identifying the evils
of today’s predicament and planning to remedy them?

The author would suggest to Mr. Bargmann that he
check his “facts” and figures before another such en-
deavor. However much we may like or try to deny it,
the fastest growth rates the world has ever seen were in
the USSR: more than a generation of 6-7% per annum
growth. These rates have slowed considerably, and the
Soviet economy is in real trouble. But the point is:
when are we going to realize that Growth is no kind of
goal. It may mean more and better for some, but it also
means more pollution and faster consumption of valua-
ble resources. Growth has become an ideal in itself,
and it allows us to forget about some of the more ur-
gent, if unpleasant, problems of today. Of course we
need growth, of course and the market works better
than no market at all, but surely we can admit the ne-
cessity of refining these raw concepts of tempering
them with a bit of wisdom. And surely there is little to
be gained from taking so extreme a position as to be

apable of no compromise.
capa pro James Gelly ’82

Continued from page 1

all-women’s house.”

The only other- major change from
last year is that PAX became the most
popular coed house, with nineteen
freshmen on the waiting list. PAX dis-
placed Emanon from their former pre-
eminence.

PiKA placed 20 freshmen with three
on their waiting list. ETC took 25 peo-
ple. F&M received 22 new members.
Phi Delt gained seventeen new pledges
and SAE got 29. ATO added 20 new
members. Emanon received eighteen
members. PAX ‘took 20 new members
with nineteen on their waiting list: KA
got 20 new pledges, with nine on their
waiting list.

by Jeffrey Mann ‘84 7

~ “DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982

17
