ports

From the Locker Room
An Athletic Department renaissance

I believe it was two years ago during
the NCAA basketball tournament that
Al McGuire said, “Lefty Driesell had a
dynasty at Davidson—not Maryland,”
as the champions-to-be Indiana Hoosi-
ers walloped Lefty’s Terps.

Lefty enjoyed the dynasty of which
Al spoke in the late sixties, but after
Driesell’s departure the empire gradual-
ly crumbled. When Terry Holland left,
it fell into oblivion.

..the names names of
former Davidson
coaches were a Who’s
Who of Charlotte
unemployment lines.

Se

During the years from Holland's de-
parture in 1974 to 1981, the Davidson
Athletic Department experienced a peri-
od of athletic impotence, a sort of Dark
Age. Johnston Gym was a feudal state
in which coaches and athletic directors
were deposed like so many puppets. For
a while, the names of former Davidson
coaches were a Who’s Who of Charlotte
unemployment lines. If they weren’t to
be found there, one might try the nearest
NCAA Championship or Coach of the
Year listing. Basketball was a consist-
ent 5-22. Soccer had a few 0-26 sea-
sons. Women’s sports were just getting
off the ground, and slowly at that. There
weren’t too many teams to really get be-
hind and cheer for.

Eighteen months ago Eddie Bie-
denbach’s basketball program seemed
to be pulling out of the tailspin, soccer
had had a winning season, field hockey
had gone to Nationals, and things in
general were looking up.

Then, on a quiet Sunday morning,
the axe fell. Biedenbach was fired, and
basketball went through three coaches
in ten days. In June, three basketball
players left the school before honor
charges could be brought against them.
It all reached a dizzying tumult when
Athletic Director Eugene B. Bingham
resigned amid controversy.

Ed Farrell took over as acting At-

hletic Director, put all the turmoil be-
hind him, and aired out the department.
It marked a new era in Davidson athlet-
ics. @
Certainly in those dark, stormy
years no dynasties loomed on the horiz-
on. Davidson had no overwhelming
success in any sport.

In September of 1982, however, Da-
vidson’s athletic department is standing
on the edge of a veritable renaisance.

Soccer

Last year Charlie Slagle was named
Southem Conference Coach of the Year
after he piloted his young squad to a 13-
9 record, 6-2 in the conference. Those
thirteen wins are the most a Davidson
soccer team has ever won, and the 6-2
conference record left the Cats in se-
cond place at season’s end.

As Davidson College soccer history
would have it, that would normally be a
tall, if not impossible, order to top. Not
so in 1982. The Cats, boasting their most
potent offense ever, are strong contend-
ers for a Southern Conference champi-
onship this year.

Davidson is off to a 3-0-1 start, in-
cluding a I-0 win over conference foe
Western Carolina. Appalachian State,
the perennial conference powerhouse
and brief visitor into the national lim-
elig ht, is off to a 1-4 start.

The soccer team’s strong contention
for an SC title is not a one-year fluke.
Slagle, through a network of coaching
friends and acquaintences up and down
the eastern seaboard, is bringing in bet-
ter recruits each year. For a change, the
Starters are able to go all-out, safe in the
knowledge that quality reinforcements
are waiting on the sideline. Next year’s
team will have a strong nucleus of re-
tuming upperclassmen with one or two
freshmen sprinkled in the starting unit.
it is an ideal situation for the long-term
maintenance of a consistently good soc-
cer program.

Hats off to Charlie Slagle and the
1982 Wildcats.

Field Hockey

Two years ago Dee Mayes coached
the field hockey team to the AIAW Na-
tional Tournament, the first time a Da-
vidson team outside College Bow! had
visited national competition in years.
Last year, amid high hopes for a repeat
performance of 1980, the Lady Cats
struggled through an 0-6 start due main-
ly to inexperience, injury, and gradua-
tion. The second half of the season was
a complete turnaround as the team
rolled to the state finals before losing to
twice-beaten High Point.

This year there’s good news and
there’s bad news. The good -news is
they’re off to a 2-0 start. Last Wednes-
day they crushed Wake Forest 3-0, and

Saturday they looked even better as they
ran away from the Charlotte Flickers, 5-
1.

More good news is that Carol
Heppner, who scored 20 goals in her
first two seasons, is back after last
year’s injury. Her return will ease pres-
sure on super-player Amy Crittenberger
and add scoring punch to the front line.
Better yet; the team is by no means
young—there are several sophomore
and junior starters.

The dissolution of the AIAW is the
only bad news. For Davidson, that
means competing on the Division I level
of the NCAA against full scholarship
schools. The realignment will make re-
gional success a difficulty, not an im-
possibility, however.

Football

Despite the opening-day embarass-
ment against Wofford, the football team
stands in good shape to go 6-4. Keep in
mind that only three Davidson teams
have won more than six games and Da-
vidson has never fielded an eight-or-
better game winner.

The offensive line fared much better
against Georgetown last weekend and
promises to flow better against Newber-
ry tomorrow. Once Bob Miller returns
to the lineup, the team will be ready to
go. The defense, a vulnerable spot in
preseason extimates, has played out-
standing ball. The kicking game re-
mains the only Achilles’ heel, but will
improve as the season continues.

Again, the recruits get better each
year, so continued success is on the ho-
rizon.

Basketball

Nowhere has improvement been so
drastic as in Bobby Hussey’s basketball
program.
~ Last year at this time Bobby Hussey
was'staring the possibility of a 5-22 sea-
son dead in the eye. He had two return-
ing starters and a bunch of supposedly
second-rate Southern Conference play-
ers to work with, and by season’s end he
had molded them into a first-rate team.
Brian Rowan, Cliff Tribus, and Kenny
Wilson, who had been lost souls in the
Eddie Biedenbach program, became
All-Conference caliber under Hussey.
This fall Hussey and his miracle-
wielding assistants have brought in sev-
en outstanding freshmen who will chal-
lenge the four returning starters for their
positions. The combination of nine
players with a year of Hussey under
their belts and added depth should put

The soccer team’s strong contention

for an SC title is not a one-year fluke.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/September 24, 1982

the Cats in the thick of the Congerence
title race and may well give them a birth
in the NCAA playoffs. The only prob-
lem is the incredibly rugged schedule,
which includes the season opener at De-
Paul.

And if you think these freshmen are
good, wait ’til you see what they want
for next year! From the new poster to a
great schedule to outstanding recruits,
Davidson basketball is on the move.

Last year at this time
Bobby Hussey was
staring the possibility
of a 5-22 season dead
in the eye.

Baseball

Baseball has not been bery, bery good to
Davidson, George Greir, however, is of
a mind to change that. He comes from
an excellent background in baseball,
and last year he set the Wildcat program
off on the right foot.

Greir, in the mold of Earl Weaver,
Stressed sound fundamentals, which,
once they take root in the program, will
eventually lead to more wins. Add to
that an extraordinary recruiting ability
(he get quality players on virtually no
money), and the baseball team is in the
same position the soccer team was a few
years ago. Given time, the Davidson
baseball program will become a South-
ern Conference title contender.

Tennis

The men’s and women’s tennis pro-
grams are almost undoubtedly David-
son’s most consistent programs. This
year they will probably improve.

Last year, the men’s tennis team
was young. For a good while freshman
Sedge Grey was the number-one player
and doing admirably. This year’s team,
well-stocked with juniors and seniors
(and don’t forget Sedge with a year’s
college experience behind him) prom-
ises to be extremely competitive with
the possibility of numerous upsets.

The women’s team lost Emmy
Knoblock, its first All-American, to
graduation, but there are able players to
fill her shoes. Under first-year coach
Caroline Brown, the women are strong
throughout the lineup and not inexpe-
rienced. Look for another outstanding
year. Continued

11
