Volume LXXI, Number2. Number 2

The "The Weekty Newspaper o Newspaper of Davidson College

"Friday, ° 1 | October 1982

Spotlight
On Spots

A look at Davidson’s

favorite study aid

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

“T took a test last year where almost
every question had appeared on the
spots,” says sophomore Greg Rhodes,
“IT can’t complain about my grade, but
afterwards I felt a little bit guilty.”

Studying past tests to aid in learining
is Davidson academic tradition almost
as old as self-scheduled exams. Dean of
Students Will Terry says Davidson stu-
dents used spots “When I was a stu-
dent,” and that was a long time ago.

But what exactly are spot tests? How
do students use them? Why do students
use them? Do professors condone or
condemn spots? And finally, do spots
actually improve learning or just
grades?

Spot tests are examples of past re-
views and quizzes that many students
use to predict the questions and format
of their current tests. Students obtain
spots from friends, fraternities, eating
houses, and even from professors. Stu-
dents examine anywhere from a few to
twenty or so spots in preparing for a test.

Junior Rene Herlong says he has stu-
died spots since “I first came here.”
“After I feel I’m prepared to take a test,”
says Herlong, “F'll work a spot to tell me
whether I’m as prepared as I thought I
was.”

Not all students use spots in the same
way as Herlong. For some, spots are the
only salvation before a test. As sopho-
more Chris Blake puts it: “I think that

‘professors,

some people depend totally on spots and
never really learn.” Junior Will David
agrees: “Many professors are quite spot-
able.”

For this reason and others, most psy-
chology professors, some economics
religion professor Dr.
McKelway, and history professor Dr.
Partin prohibit spots. As religion pro-
fessor Dr. David Kaylor asserts, “It
[spots] can help them [the students]
make better grades, but I don’t know
whether it helps their learning.”

Psychology professor Dr. Ruth Ault
prohibits spots in her classes. She be-
lieves that there are “only so many ways
to ask a good question, and when she
finds a good one, she sticks with it. Dr.
Ault feels that students who use spots
“tend to memorize the answers” and that
this actually does them a “disservice”.
She cites evidence showing that stu-
dents learn best when they “organize the
material for themselves”.

Ault also objects to spots, in part, be-
cause they “frequently lead to ‘fraterni-
ty members’ getting through school eas-
ier” than other students.

All of the fraternities have spot files,
though some are outdated. Kappa Alpha
member Jim Crowe says his fraternity is
“still in the process of getting a spot file
together.” The Sigma Alpha Epsilon
spot file according to John Cain is still a
“cardboard box.” Pi Kappa Alpha Will-
iam Morrison concedes his fraternity’s
spot file “is a mess” but also boasts that

Continued on page 6.

BSC Prepares

To Open New House

By MIKE TANTILLO ’85

The Black Student Coalition located
between Rusk House and PAX is a new
addition to Patterson Court this year.
Black Student Coalitions (BSC) are lo-
cated at predominantly white colleges
throughout the United States, but they
are independant of one another. The
BSC has been at Davidson since the ear-
ly seventies, just before the college
went coed.

The BSC was located on Jackson
Court until this year, when they request-

ed the move to Patterson Court because
they have outgrown the Jackson Court
House and wanted to be more in the
mainstream of campus social life. Al-
though they have not moved into their
house on Patterson Court yet, the BSC
hopes to move in within weeks. The of-
ficers of the BSC are: Anne Elliott,
President; Charles Hooks, Vice-presi-
dent; and Judy Harrell, Secretary. There
are 54 black students at Davidson, of
which 40 attended the last BSC meet-
ing; however, Anne Elliott expects fifty
black students to join the coalition.

Continued on page 6.
