Silverette Gem Clips

Good and bad: this week’s tally

A friend writes, “Since my arrival at Davidson, I too have
noticed many good and many bad things. Your call last week for
Good and Bad Things —a subject most dear to my hear — was most
stimulating, so I enclose my opinion concerning what I consider to
be the most Good Thing on campus.

“I am speaking, of course, about phallic symbols. I am amazed
that no one. has mentioned it in your column (!) before. Look
around: including the eating house porches, I count at least 156
longer-than-they-are-wide monuments. The variety of such
monuments practically stuns me. Why, from the Belk cupola to the
DCPC steeple, Davidson is dripping with tributes to male attributes.
Lucky was I that the Commons opened the year I was a freshman.
Twelve more columns, and more fun than I can shake a stick at.”

The author goes on fo name other interesting phallic symbols:
the Chambers dome (which, as those of you who took CLA 155 will
recall, Dr. Davies correctd as being a woman’s breast and not a
phallic symbol at all), the Phi Delt bench, the Cushman police carts,
all the little green posts with chains through them (interesting
implications), and the White Animals.

This letter is representative of the astounding response to last
week’s request for Good and Bad Things. Another letter explored

a)
£
E
3
2

This Week’s Tally .
Week ending 8/1/82

Conclusion:Good Week

Things

the culinary Good and Bad to be found here at Davidson. “. . .
Grand Ma’s Cookies in the Union stand as a definite good thing
[sic]. After extensive testing, the Soft Raisins take the cake as the
most good [sic]. All the other flavors rate almost as well, except for
the Double Chocolate Chips. Mostly because a person just finishing
a two-pack looks as if she / he has horrible gum disease. Just
something to consider when on a date in the Union Café and trying
to impress that special someone.

“And the grease that coagulates in the cracks. Here’s another
thing [sic] about onion rings. Have you ever let an order of them get
cpl and then try to eat them? Sure, you take one bite, and the whole

J ¢,

onion slides out and looks like a big, fat, blind, parasitic, albino
tapeworm. And I can taste them already.”

Anyone taking a peek at the cover of the 1982-83 Directory
cannot help but be smacked in the face by the Badness of it.
Mustard-y / harvest gold one associates with plastic recipe file
holders and old athletic uniforms. My guess is that somebody got an
exceptional deal on some Sears-kitchen-appliance-colored paper.
And I’ve never seen such a jaundiced bunch of hollow-eyed men
with greasy hair. Guess Davidson was pretty fun in ’73.

Hunh.

Next week: Spotlight on Lee Iacocca’s birthday. .

(
INTERESTED IN A MASTERS

DEGREE IN ACCOUNTING?
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION?
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION?

Discover Rice University’s

Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Administra-
tion. A representative will be on campus on

October 4, 1982 (Monday)
TIME: 9:00-10:30 a.m.

For further information contact:
The Careers Office

Please send an application and a brochure
about Rice University’s JONES GRADUATE SCHOOL to:

Name
Address
City State Zip
College Degree date .

‘Rice University
Jones Graduate School of Administration
_ P.O. Box 1892
Houston, Texas 77001
(713) 527-4893

Rice University is an equal opportunity / affirmative action institution.

2
