Herb Jackson:

If you turn to page 25 of this year’s Davidson Col- >

lege Directory you’ ll find that Herb Jackson is an Asso-
ciate Professor of Art.:What you. won't find mentioned
is that Professor Jackson, is qualified to teach art be-
cause he is a professional artist — an abstract painter to
be specific. Six of his recent paintings, part of a series
entitled “Veronica’s Veil,” are the subject of a one-per-
son exhibition which opened on November 18 at Phyl-
lis Weil Gallery at 1065 Park Avenue in New York
City. Herb, as he likes to be called, also has three pei-

ces currently showing in two other New York exhibi- -

tions; one painting in the 33rd Annual Hassam and
Speicher Fund Purchase Exhibition at the American
Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, and two
large prints in the 22nd Brooklyn Museum Print Bien-
nial. Before Christmas I visited Herb at his studio to
talk with him about his art and how it related to art be-
ing done in America today.

' On entering the work room of his studio I saw sev-
en large paintings varying in dimension from 5’ x 4’ to
5’ x 9’. I can best describe them as being deeply
layered acrylic paintings rich in their variety of colors
and . textures. The works are non-representational
structures of inter-related forms, lines and gestures
painted from a distinctive palette which shows a love
for the vibrant colors of earth, water and sky. Textures
are. created in the'paintings through the thick applica-
tion of paint mixed with pumice and some areas are
scraped.away to reveal many levels of the work’s surfa-
ces. Through the unification of countless formal, tex-
tual and chromatic elements, each painting becomes an
intriguing whole that gives its audience more each mo-
ment itis viewed.

In order to set up a context in which to place his
work I asked Herb about what was going on in Amer-
ican art and how his work related to it:

“What's happening right now is a return to the fi-

gurative image and a personal narrative and their at-
tacking it two different ways: One side of it is an ex-
tremely realistic approach to painting and then one side
of it is a kind of funky, fanicy, rough, tough, punk thing
that’s going on which is generally summed up as ‘New
Image’ painting.”

“As you'can see my work has nothing. to do with
_either of these things, so where I find myself is in a sort
_of underground position: When I-was starting to paint

growing up, at least in the South, Twas perceived as be-
ing in an avant-garde position, but in terms of what was

going on fiationwide it wasn’t true at all’: It was an es-'

_ tablishment Position to be an abstract expressionist. So
I always had: that funny situation where down here I

was considered tadical, and maybe still am, which is:

funny because I’m as classical as the Parthenon, Butin *
the greater sense I'was considered mainstream, maybe

establishment. Certainly by a lot of people coming ona.

generation behind that looks like ‘a safe position be-
cause that’s the acknowledged position. So I never
" thought that.I' would have the privilege of being in the
underground. And all of a.sudden, over the past five

years or so I find myself almost like working.inamon- _
astary because the wotk I’m doing is not the work be- -
ing shown in Néw York or being written about today.
What abstract art that is being written about is being

written’ about as bourgeois decoration and I. think
‘there’s:a lovef reason for that.-A lot of painting during

the sixties became very decorative and some of it be-
came yery vacuous, it lacked meaning, Whenever |

talk about meaning I’m not talking about literal mean-

aoe wel erect iter

— cael a
, Seige Ss

s

| ofthe rk wich oc th wie Sonat ty:
ina Pee Oe eee ee ag

A Davidson

“My feeling is that Abstract, when it comes back,
will come back with new kind of import and it will have
’ something to:do with personal symbol. Ihave afeeling
that the art of the-sixties when it lack meaning, when it
was bad, it. lacked personal symbol. So I feel like my
work in relation to-all that is very much work involved
in personal symbol.”

“ 1 asked Herb. what kinds of art, not only painting,
he felt-his work-closely related to. He answered that
any work closely related to. He-answered that any -
works which afe “essentially meditative” og “of small
incident or detail” related to his own so long as they re-
quired a “continual relationship” between piece and...
viewers. He contrasted his art with “quick | hut” ahs
didn’t require a long relationship to show itself.

_ Phere’ sno picture of mine that you can walk into
a roont-and see. I can’t see them so.I don’t think you
can either, It’s simply, that you, see parts of them and.”
you see just like interacting with another person. You

see facets of them at any given time, but once you've.

- ‘seen all-the fadets the interrelationship of the facets be-
comes a whole new permutation tha can goon fore~.
ver,”

“I’m not interested in telling any story that can _
possibly be literal. I even get nervous about a title like.
‘Veronica's Veil’ because. its associative value is very.
literal and there are problems with that. Take, for ex-

ample, the Veil whe Mint rs ue

, There at you see:
his. nose, i ah soe Ne mnt ey es OS
tink ‘O.K. here's an image which relat

Arpersiy

<a Se Re “ae a ree Sg a ease ae Xs

Artist’s Teachings

' “I think many painters are using narrative for'a
sub-structure for something much greater than the nar-
rative. You see I feel like all my pictures are narrative
only in a non-verbal way. You can’t make marks or
gestures with a personal calligraphic mark or gesture
without them having a sort of natrative.

I think that certain actions, forms, and non-defined
symbols are universal. I can find marks and actions like |
my own in early Italian painters and they go all the way
back to the caves. I’m not coming out of someplace
that nobody else has ever been.”
es In describing how he worked on a particular paint-
ing Herb spoke of being involved in a non-verbal pro-
‘cess of reacting to the colors and forms he put on can-
vas.
“In a sense’you become part of it, of the whole
Process. Most of the time while you're working there’s
no separation between artist process and piece. And
‘when there is it’ $ only when you have to become judge-
mental in terms of the work’s finality. Of course each
‘mark you make is a certain judgemental response and
the next mark is going to be a response to it, but it but it’s the .
final judgement of whether a piece ‘works that réquites
you to be ‘specifically analytical about it. Otherwise 1
think the whole constant ‘involving a picture is ititui:
tive. Ldon*t know when I start a picture what it’s going s
to look like:” 7
Hetb told of painting a’patticular finished work

Biss peppteh chet ee tetra Al-
‘though he thad painted the form’ he still was tinsure

‘where it Came from or what it meant. In work’of per-

‘ -‘ gonal symbol this decurence is part of the artist’s con-
atte sam discovery of what Het cls ‘personal Vocabu- ©
Tay.’ “With this discovery in mind I asked Herb if he

ight of hiis painting more as a seatch to learn more
Himself oF a5 a means to communicate sjmething

_DAVIDSONIAN sida’ 8ivanuacy: 1982,
