allery

A quiet garden grows in the Gallery. Davidsonians
scurry through the bowels and belfries of Chambers,
too busy to spare but a glance, if that. A baby blooms

into vivid life in the garden. In the same room, students .

sipping ‘their Thursday cokes, professors their coffees,

in brief respite from frantic schedules, loiter over their —
doughnuts and:conversation, too preoccupied (per-
haps) to shuffle across the Gallery away from the intel-

lectual din to witness: the peaceful event. A select
number of the Davidson community has blinked into
this vernal world’of Elizabeth Bradford Millsaps’ ex-
hibit, and it has ‘been more than worth the moments
we've ransomed for the purpose.

When I first eyed Elizbeth’s exhibit, her choice of
colored pencil as medium both startled and intrigued
me. Perhaps colored pencil is so obvious a medium that
many. artisits completely overlook it, yet Elizabeth

renders the seemingly simple a mature and intricate _

means.to beauty in art. ‘From a:moderate distance her
drawings appear like’ fragile watercolors; their colors
are intense though in.a delicate near-transparency.

_ If.one approaches her work rather closely, however,
one' may notice the labored patterns'of strokes which
comprise her images much as fine. silk embroidered
stitches might upon a pastel tapestry. These subtle patt-
erns.and variations of patterns imbue Elizabeth’s draw-
ings with a subconscious movement and life which are
midst often the literal ‘subject of her works as well.

_ At first penisal of thé exhibit, a few particular draw-
ings such’ as “Night House” and “Lily Pool” seduced
my attention, while others seemed almost decorative
pieces. However, after I spoke with Elizabeth about
her works’ the group of drawings donned a modest but
inescapable continuity in technique, theme, and inspi-
ration. Elizabeth’s original idea when approached for
the current display was to Create a series of small draw-
ings as-a sort of visual diary sparked by her everyday

DAVIDSONIAN j Friday 22 January 1982

Night House

Lily Pool

uiet Garden Grows in the’

surroundings-surroundings not many miles distant
from our own on campus.

Elizabeth sees the display as a distinct unit within her
work as most of the drawings from the present exhibit
evolved during an approximate eighteen-month peri-
od, a segment of time which just happened to coincide
with the conception, gestation, birth and first months
of life of her son. Pencil, color, and birth-theme blend
together in her drawings, celebrating life. The artist de-
scribes her work as centering about specific images
which grew from her son’s beginning in life. The many
water images in the drawings date from and symbolize
the time of her gestation period, the flower images the
time surrounding the actual birth, and the fruit and ve-
getable images the growth of her son in the first six
months of his life. Elizabeth began “The Birth Draw-
ing”, which she has dedicated to her son, the day after
he was born.

The artist often formulates her image from reality,
embellishing or highlighting with her imagination. In
creating art, she explains, visual stimulation, imagina-
tion, and the hand itself interact to develop the work.
Often, as in “Night House”, Elizabeth has witnessed a
reality and allowed her imagination to subtlely extract
the abstract from it. For the sake of practicality, she
generally performs her “critical. work” on the spot,

“making notes on the paper” and completing the many

hours’ worth of labor on her drawings in the studio.
The drawings may take from a few days to about three
weeks on the larger ones to finally develop.

Elizabeth Bradford Millsaps cannot remember a time
when she didn’t want to paint , and it appears that her
son had a great part in art even before his birth. Life
doesn’t grow from colored pencils; it grows from art-
ists like Elizabeth. See “Night House”, “David's Fire”,
“Lily Pool”, and “The Birth Drawing”. See life i in the

Gall
ah By Linda Holbert ‘83
