Anorexia

Continued from page 1

sult of the environment, like sibling/
parent relationshps and dependence, or
a major change in life.

“Anorexia is called an ‘Emancipa-
tion [ilness,’” said Dr. Ballard. “It
comes at crucial times like adolescence,
college, first jobs, first serious relation-
- ships.” Often, it occurs when a crisis
arises: when things go wrong, a young

woman might lose weight to prove to.

herself that she is still in control.

Anorexia is prognosed when a per-
son weighs below 15 percent of her nor-
mal body weight for no apparent or
medical reason. At the discussion
Steadman and Hill presented the follow-
ing list of Anorexia characteristics:
—Dieting. Anorexics usually start with
a harmless diet then gradually cut down
on fod, and may finally abstain from
eating altogether.

_ —Obsession with food. A great miscon-

ception is that anorexics do not like
food. On the contrary, they are obsessed
with it and spend a lot of time thinking
about it and how to avoid it or how to
burn off the calories derived from each
bite. They will have the tendency to en-
courage others to eat and may even cook
excessively, but they never taste the re-

’ sults.
. —Peculiar eating habits. These include

cutting the food into tiny bites, chewing
for a long time, pre-planning the
amount and calories of each serving,
and a common tendency—not touching
the food or fork with their lips.

—Physical activity. There is an increase
of eaertion. Anorexics stay active all the
time by exercising even at night or by
just standing instead of sitting.

—Moodiness. This includes depression
and withdrawal. According to Dr.
Skeen, any great weight loss causes de-
pression, and depression in turn makes
the anorexic more determined to lose
weight, thus creating a self-destructive

cycle.
—Vomiting. This is a very dangerous
method for losing weight. The imbal-
ance of potassium and electrolytes vom-
iting causes can lead to death.
According to Jolly, Anorexia Ner-
vosa cannot be cured solely by nutri-
tional therapy. Re-establishing weight
in such occasions must be done with
psychiatric help, because it is the indi-
vidual’s personal attitude that must be
change. The only way friends and fami-
lies can help a person with Anorexia is
by building her confidence and making
her feel secure.

Convocation

Continued from page |

Phailbus serves on Pakistan’s Hu-
man Rights Commission and the Pro-

vincial Education Council of the Pun-
jab, the highest provincial policy-mak-
ing body in Pakistan, as well as several
other government education councils.
Her authority in Pakistan has been in-
creased by her travel abroad and contin-
uous activity in international organiza-
tions which include visits to American
universities and representing Pakistan
in an educational assembly of Presby-
terian Church women.

In 1975, Phailbus helped found The
Asian Woman’s Institute and was the
first chairperson of the group. The
group seeks “to assist the women of
Asia in their search for self-fulfillment
and in their outreach for the fullness of
life for all.” In addition, a Pakistan
Woman’s Institute has been founded
due to Phailbus’s efforts.

Phailbus received her bachelor’s
and master’s degrees-from Punjab Uni-
versity in Pakistan and joined the Kin-
naird College staff in 1963 as a lecturer
in geography.

Reco rd Reviews __with Jonathon Glance.

“Kid Creole and the Coconuts are washed upon
the shore of B’Dilli Bay—Island of sinners ruled by
outcasts where crime is the only passport and RACE
MUSIC is the only way out!” Thus reads the intro-
duction ofthe new album by August Darnell and

company. alias Kid Creole and the Coconuts. The
fuct that the whole urbane diagonal saga of their ad
ventures is a put-on doesn) matter, of course tal
though tas tempting to toy an tivure out who all is
meta patonsy. The imoortant dine as that this band
SHoh ates im exotte groove or Caribbean extraction
uahout both sides o! OLD. feading the
ener owillingds throw a doneerous quagte of in
yoo anid to the poecun ido modosool the su
sera dt Rid Creoie This cool suited persona looms
theoormuste smaifing all tho whic aul vou or at

i dunno)
croup is prety mucin miads op of August
Warne! “Sugar-coated” And Hernundes. and “the
vabes” (the luscious Coconuts), accompanied ably
by a facelessly proficient studio band. Darnell be-

van his career with the uncommonly sophisticated
Dr. Buzzard’s Original Savannah Band, one of the
few disco bands acclaimed by the hipper critics.
This incarnation of that band still stresses slick
rhythms and intellectual bon mots, but there is a dis-
tancing from the inane song subjects which has en-
deared the band to New Wave fans, especially in-
England. Although the group has had some hits in
the U. S., they’re generally too enigmatic for most
listeners—the band’s slippery ambiguities leave the
earnest listener with nothing to hang on. The point,
of course, is to release your mind and float along
with the groove; this release of consciousness into
the music was disco’s only saving grace, and when
it’s done well it is truly invigorating.

While there are a couple of clinkers on this LP,
there are some really neat songs as well, which
pretty much get at the heart of Darnell’s seemingly
effortless music.:A good example is the opening
song, “Annie, I’m Not Your Daddy”—this appar-
ently inocuous Latin swing concerns a man cold
heartedly telling his daughter of her actual paren-
tage (in a great line, he tells her that if she had his
blood she wouldn’t be so ugly). The following
song, “I’m a Wonderful Thing, Baby” seems to be

V

putting on the too-cool soul singers who laugh about
their conquests, but the levels under that are many
and varied. The best song on the album is “Stool Pi-
geon,” which was a big hit in England this summer.
Over the rock-steady foundation of a guitar swing-
ing in a groove, an unexpectedly sarcastic story of
an ex-con turned squealer is revealed. Everyone
looks bad, from the “crooked friends” to the ex-con
who gets a credit card, a Thunderbird and plastic
surgery, to the. FBI agents who reward nim “cause
they like a guy who will stab a friend.” Bitter ironies
abound but are told over such a sweet horn groove
that you just don’t care (which may or may not be

the point of the song—to test your morality, and

show it lacking).

The entertainment value of such an ambiguous
band may not be obvious at once, but the fact is that
the songs can be perceived as either mindless or in-
tellectual offerings to the public eye. This ingenu-
cus / ingenious dividing line is thin enough that you
can pretty much get out of the songs whatever you
put into them. The gloss on this LP is so well done
that the listener mirrors himself without getting into
the mind of “Kid Creole.” If you want some dance
music that bears careful scrutiny, then consider try-
ing out Wise Guy. Then again, if you’ re just looking
for a good beat, a good groove and a good time, con-
sider trying out Wise Guy.

ii ei iN a as isn |
THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982 , - 49
