increasing controversy over the defense of Europe; a

decline in U.S. Soviet relations; and a European reali-
zation that political and military events outside the Al-
liance could threaten Europe. On the issue of defense,
Graebner defined the controversy over President Rea-
gan’s statement suggesting that a nuclear war might be
limited to Europe as a prime point of strain between the
U.S. and Europe.

Graebner believes this strain is exacerbated by the
cooling relations between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R.,
while Western Europe is more interested than ever in
Détente between East and West. Dr. Graebner noted
that Europe has much more to lose than the U.S. in
terms of security and economic gains if it does not deal
with the Soviet Union and is therefore more pragmatic
in its views of Soviet activities not affecting the Al-
liance. The West Europeans, Dr. Graebner said, are
afraid that a rash U.S. response to a Soviet intervention
in the third world could eventually lead to a war in Eu-
rope. This fear, which Graebner felt is not unjustified ,

further strains the Alliance. The answer to assuaging
these strains lies, according to Graebner, primarily in a
U.S. realization that “practically no country in the
world favors Soviet aggression” and that when there is
a legitimate Soviet threat, the formation of a strong in-

ternational coalition against such a threat will naturally -

result. Such a move away from U.S. unilateral action
against. the U.S.S.R. combined with an increased at-
tempt by the West Europeans to understand the U.S.
position would, in Graebner’s view, strengthen West-
ern unity.

Morehead
___.Medical
Center

Lan tp ucts eine nnamninentine cements. BC T N ~

Graebner Expounds
America’s Need

for Realism

By MARVIN OVERBY ’83

On the improvement of American diplomacy:

“The major problem is that of understanding the
forces of the world and facing them realistically. . . . It
seems to me that the United States is at odds with much
of world opinion and I think the reason why it is is that
it has notions about the Soviet Union, about the need of
power, about the nature of change in the Third World
that places it at odds not only with the Third World, but
with Europe as well. . . . I think the first task is to judge
why it is that so much of the world’s at odds with us and
our policies.

On world revolutions: f°

“T can’t think of any time when the Soviet Union has
actually stimulated a revolution. It has examined revo-

lutions already underway and if the revolutions are lef-_

tist or radically led itgnight support them, but a revolu-
tion has to rise and fall on its own, which means that no
outside force . . . will necesarily control it or benefit
from it when it succeeds. . . . The forces for change are
indigenous. . . . If you insist that all change is Russian

‘ Licensed

ie, Shaan earns tne may

Specialist

“J” Worried About
Being Pregnant?
We Care.

Free Pregnancy Testing Daily
(No appointment necessary)

For Answers And

Action On
e Abortion
e Birth Control /f i

% ¢
te TOM e gtger alge daw bya at

A
/
BY

| 1. JHE DAVIDSONIAN/29. October 1982.

inspired, you . . . keep telling yourself that these indi-
genous pressures are either non-existent or they aren't
very important. So, it’s almost impossible to have a
good, clear program that faces an indigenous problem
if you keep telling yourself ‘that’s really not the prob-
lem, the problem’s over there in Moscow.’””

On American relations with the Soviet Union:

“Russia is always the same, the challenge is always
the same, but your perceptions, the words you use, the
little things that you do can create tensions—of course,
if you do it on one side, they'll do.it on the other—so
you’ ve always got a response. You start to get in a syn-
drome of running conflict and . . . our relations with
Russia are very bad.”

On the success of the Western Alliance:

“Everything we've really had to do, which is to
keep the big, industrial centers of the world out of So-
viet hands, we've done perfectly. . . . How can you
chalk that up as failure?”

On detente:

“The whole purpose of detente was to offer the So-
viet Union good relations with the U.S. along with
trade and credit and access to American technology. In
exchange for that, the Russians could obey the so-
called ‘rules of detente,’ which means that you do not
push or shove or use any advantage in any portion of
the world to improve your position as opposed to that
of the U.S... . In other words, we were trying to con-
trol their policies in the Third World by dangling the
carrot in front of them of American trade and technol-
ogy; that’s the tradeoff . . . and,-of course, it never
worked, because we discovered that we cannot control
their activities in the Third World. They did get in-
volved in Angola; they do have advisors in Ethiopia.
See, from that point of view, Americans say detente
failed.”

vances emeantebeiemaren te Flee mt *

mere or

On the Soviet pipeline to West Europe:

“Reagan doesn’t want good relations between Rus-
sia and Western Europe. He doesn’t want it and the
pipeline represents that. I think one reason he’s against
the pipeline is that he doesn’t want any detente in Eu-
rope. He wants the Europeans to be tough and anti-So-
viet, just as we are. They're not and that’s the rub in the
Alliance.

On Secretary of State Shultz:

“I was somewhat disturbed by appointment of
Shultz, because Clark had no experience in foreign af-
fairs and then they have Shultz as Secretary of State
coming out of the background with a minimum of ex-
perience in putting two people with little experience in
top positions. I think Haig, because of his experiences
in Europe, at least knew Europe fairly well . . . . I think
the reason why I prefer Shultz, though, is because he
has a better style.. Shultz is an absolute pragmatist, low
key, apparently highly intelligent, very sincere . . . I
still would rather have a man like Kissinger . . . with
that level of knowledge.

On the Reagan Administration and Foreign Aid:

““T think that all he’s got to do is once he gets over the
hump of seeing the Soviet Union behind all the prob-
lems . . . that this Administration will do some good [in
foreign aid] also. We’re in the position to do a lot of
good in the world, but you can’t do any good for El Sal-
vador if you’re always under the assumption you have
to fight the Soviet Union, because the Soviet Union is

: not the problem in El Salvador. El Salvador is the prob-

lem ‘of El, Salvador—poverty, bad land distribution,

poof crops. These are the things we have to work on.”

Sn i!
