Religion , Seriously

It’s hard to escape religion at Davidson. In fact, it’s impossible.
Everybody has to take at least one religion course; it’s all part of the
Davidson experience. Our Statement of Purpose states the
following about Davidson’s relationship to religion: “Davidson
recognizes God as the source of all truth. As a college committed to
the historic Christian faith, it sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of
history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole life.
Davidson is dédicated to the quest for truth and would set no limits
to the adventures of the mind. Hence, it encourages teachers and
students to explore the facts of the universe through the full and
dedicated used of their intellectual powers. Faith and reason must
work together in mutual respect if Davidson is to reaize and
maintain her vision of excellence in the field of Christian higher
education.”

Six out of seven paragraphs in the Statement of Purpose mention
the importance of spiritual growth. Usually the Christian faith is
explicitly pointed to asthe means of “healthy growth.” Davidson
maintains that “. . . a college must be a worshipping as well as a
studying community, if it is to nurture the whole person and is to be
genuinely Christian. Hence, religious services and activities, as
well as courses in religion, form an integral part of its program.”

Obviously, religion is a major part of Davidson activity. The
religious activity calendar from Charlie Summers’s office is almost
as full as the Union calendar. Everything from Mass to world event
discussion groups are listed. Between religion courses, informal
group discussions, and general guidelines like the Statement of
Purpose, religion comes up more at Davidson that at many schools.

Good & Bad: AGraphic View

This Week's Tally: ™“

No Words Nope
at Just lines showing Good and Bad

4

PMMhk

eur ie

7

| We're having fun

e x

Conclusion: Braves down
DADA Day is 6 November maybe. Or wee It siresdy? (1) Surf’s up

Things could be Badder

|

¢

Although not unique insofar as there are other schools that take
religion as a major intellectual and spiritual guide, Davidson’s
relation to the Christian church is rather remarkable.

Unlike many schools which take religion as seriously as to see
“Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order,
and value to the whole life,” Davidson doesn’t legislate its morality
or spirituality to the community; compared to, say, Bob Jones
University, Davidson is a den of iniquity. All religious participation
on (and off) campus is strictly voluntary. Every individual is free to
choose as he or she believes in respéct to spiritual activity.

This has not always been the case at Davidson. It wasn’t all that
long ago that the College required chapel attendance of every
student and a Christian tenure policy for incoming professors. As
recent as 1977, the College was in an uproar over religious
commitment for professors. Faculty tenure evaluations were
changed in response to declining a job offer to a Jewish professor. A
lot has changed in fifteen years at Davidson.

In this week’s paper, religion is somewhat of a focal point.
Although not as controversial as in the past, religion is still
important to Davidson. Every so often it is worthwhile to look at our
policy and history in a serious way. Although it is: hard not to
chuckle at the PTL Club’s speed limit and plastic animals, there
does seem to be some morsel of truth nestled in Heritage Village, U.
S.A.

Davidson takes its relation to the church in a significant way. It
is. important to recognize the action behind the Statement of
Purpose. We offer these articles in a serious vein.

__LHE DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

"The Davideonian is published Fridays during the school
yeer by the students of Devideon College. Address cor-
feapendenee to: Davideonian, Box 218, Devideon, NC
20036. Phone 704/882-2000, ext. 148 and 148. Offices io-
gated on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subserip-
tone cost $10 per year. Advertising rates evellable on
reqwent. Fovond class postage no. USPS 140.300-1. Statf: Lindsay Biddle
Christi Baggett
@ Bill Barnett
Mark Elmore
@ Duncan V. Fraser
Kara Gilmore
Jonathan Glance
Jennifer Gotto
Thurston Hatcher

Editor: Stewart Cauley e @ Rob Holienbeck

Executive Editor: Brian Butler Scott Huie
News Editor: David Resnik Joe Jaworski
Features Editor: Tom Pafford Paulette Kurani
Sports Editor: Steve Soud Anne Lambert

Production Editor: Ann Meador
Photography Editor: Andy Scott

Ginna McGee
Laura McGee

Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams Elodie McMillan

Calendar Editor: lvy Goodman @ Matt Morris

Business Manager: Lentz Ivey Peggy Pierotti

Advertising Managers: Jeff Danese Garry Sullivan
Frank Hague Tom Schilling

Graphics: Scot Myers John Verdi

Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss Andrew Wilson

| @

2 -+ “THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 October 1982
