cS

Sunday Night at the PTL

Students encounter glossolalia and huge plastic animals

By JEFF DEMPSEY ’83

Last Sunday night two Davidson students put on
their coats and ties and headed down I-77 toward Char-
lotte. They continued until the first exit in South Carol-
ina where they exited and turned left. Two miles later,
they turned into an entrance marked with a large sign:
Heritage USA. Heritage USA is a large complex that
serves as national headquarters for the Praise the Lord
(PTL) Club.

The little road now twisted along
through camping grounds, past tennis
courts, a miniature golf course,
McMoose’s fast food,

and more plastic animals.

A man at the gate handed us the Heritage Herald

and gave us directions to the television studios, The
Bam. As we left the entrance a row of nations’ flags ran
along one side of the narrow road on the other side one
sign read: “Speed Limit-33” and the next: “Speed
checked by God.” We drove for several minutes
through thick woods, past Dogwood Hills Condomini-
ums, and across the railroad tracks where we Went
right. The speed limit changed to 22. As we came upon
the general store, we noted the first of a series of huge
plastic animals (a pig, a moose, and a few cows) that
dotted the roadsides. The little road now twisted along
through camping grounds, past tennis courts, a mina-
ture golf course, McMoose’s fast food, and more plas-
tic animals. We continued to follow signs for The Barn
and slowed as the signs changed from 22 to 17 to 12.
Finally The Barn loomed before us, and we hunted
down a parking place in the spacious lot.

Inside, we hurried through the lobby/bookstore to-
ward the sounds of clapping and singing coming from
the studios beyond. We entered an expansive blue-car-
peted auditorium containing about 300 people and
found seats near the back. On stage, before a brightly-
colored background of springtime meadows, a man
played a white grand piano to the singing of a young
woman. A sign with large yellow lettering sat on top of
the piano: Camp Meeting. Plastic flowers ringed the
foot of the stage. Four large television cameras roved
the area directly in front of the stage, while two others
were situated on raised areas in the audience. Our view
was partially obscured by camera number two in Par-
ticular.

When the. couple finished their hymn, they were
joined on stage by a genial middle-aged man in a light
suit, a certain Rev. Smith. Rev. Smith welcomed the
audience, directed our attention to the monitors over-

" head, and led us in clapping as the taped beginning to
the ol’ Camp Meeting came onto the screens.

The singing couple opened the show with another
hymn after which Rev. Smith reappeared to welcome
the audience at home. One more hymn later, they left
and the smiling reverend took this opportunity to invite
the audience at home to order two great new books
written by the leaders of the PTL club: Jim’s Survival:
Unite to Live and Tammy Faye’s book on fear, Run to
the Lord. Jim’s “Success” tapes were also available for
a love offering of £25, and for a gift of £15 per month a
person can become a PTL Partner and then receive a
Partner’s card, a Partner’s pen, a Partner’s lapel pin,
and a desk sign saying “You can make it.”

Charles Hunter had converted

a 10-year-old boy who had dialed

the wrong number.
En nc]
It was then time for the evening’s guest hosts, the
Happy Hunters, to come out. The Happy Hunters, an
evangelical couple from Texas, indeed lived up to their
name. With exuberant exclamations of “Praise God!”,

they let everyone know that they were “blessed, _

anointed, and speaking the Word of God” and imme-
diately began telling anecdotes of greeting people with
the message that Jesus wants to be their savidr. By an-
swering the phone with “God is fabulous. Do you
know Jesus?”, for example, Charles Hunter had con-
verted a 10 year-old boy who had dialed the wrong
number. In similarly brief encounters, they had led air-
port employees, grocery store bagboys, and people in
bus stations to the Lord.

Charles was eager to share a recent vision that had
greatly affected him. Awakened in the middle of the
night of September 20, he sat up in bed and began to
have a vision of a farmer standing before a tremendous
field of grain. The farmer was reveling in the plentiful
grain ready for harvest when a great storm suddenly
came up and destroyed the field. In this way, Mr. Hun-
ter warned, the Final Judgement is going to destroy the
unsaved -- and we, “the disciples of the End Genera-
tion,” must work to save as many souls as possible in
these. final days.

Francis Hunter then read from the Bible and dis-
cussed sin. She talked mostly about smoking and
drinking as sins that a Christian should overcome, but,
she added, gossiping is just as bad as these and can
keep one out of Heaven just as easily. At this point
Francis had everyone stand, lift up their hands, and re-
peat after her a “sinner’s prayer” that ended with all
loudly proclaiming “I am saved.” Afterwards everyone
turned to their neighbors, shook hands, and told each
that they were saved.

.. you need only to let the syllables
flow out without thinking about them
to be successful.

Francis’ prayer ended the hour-long television pro-
gram, though it did not end the service for the live au-
dience. The cameramen quietly abandoned their came-
ras (at last I could see the entire stage), while Charles
picked up on the subject of speaking in tongues. He
sent an invitation for all who wished to speak in
tongues to come stand in front of the stage. The next 20
minutes were then spent in explaining how speaking in
tongues became a part of the Hunters’ ministry, why
ordinary people who have been saved can speak in
tongues, and how to do it.

Every saved person, Mr. Hunter said, using pass-
ages of Scripture to back up his argument, has this abil-
ity to talk directly to God in a perfect language.” The
Devil hates this and tries to prevent it by placing doubt
in your mind. But, as Mr. Hunter demonstrated, you
need only to let the syllables flow out without thinking
about them to be successful. Having finally finished
with all the prefatory remarks, Mr. Hunter then count-
ed to three and on three the entire audience,those seat-
ed as well as those in front of the stage, lifted up their
hands and began speaking in gibberish.

‘My friend and I had to leave at this point and so we
slipped out. Through the dark parking lot, into the car,
by the plastic animals, past the sign at the exit:“ God
loves you and so do we--Jim and Tammy ,” back onto I-
77. Speed limit-55.

10

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 October 1982
