Saturday, February 6 was: party time at the Headmas-
ter’s Villa, Shitoli. Chris Moore, Atsiaya Opanyi, Om-
walo Halwenge and A. T.. Miller hosted 25 friends at
their swinging (no, not from vines) bachelors’ pad for
an all—night bash. Actually, because of problems of
transport and security (animals & human) nearly all
Kenyan parties must last all night.

Invitations were sent out two weeks prior to allow for

mail service-and the African custom of only accepting .

written invitations. If you just verbally tell an African

about a party, he is insulted:and will not come. Emily

Post would be proud! Also, most people will respond

with their regrets or-acceptances, which is nice for.

planning.

Kenyan parties come in three colors—black, white
and the much rarer mixed. Although there is very little
racial prejudice in the country (tribal differentiations
are stronger than racial) blacks and whites are still
often not completely comfortable socially. Part of the
problem is that nearly all whites are also foreigners,
and another part is colonial hangover. One surprising
thing is that Nairobi and many large cities show much
less mixing than other areas. Perhaps this is because
minorities in such areas have enough members to form
their own groups. »

Mazungu (white—including Vince who calls him-
self the Black Mazungu) parties are predominantly vo-
lunteers, who are predominantly teachers and are usu-
ally informal. People bring their own food, drinks,
sleeping bags, etc. and share the work. The time is

spent talking about school, home, Reagan, travel and
can—you—top—this stories of African adventares
and encounters.. Three sub—classes are Peace Corps
parties where everyone is rich (they make more than
twice my salary).and complaining, and Davidson par-
ties where everyone talks about mutual ‘friends and
bores the non—Davidsonians to death. British parties
are generally just like Mazungu parties with less fun,
less food and more talk.

African parties have invitations and are nearly al-
ways formal with a Guest of Honor and a set program.
Guests are greeted and seated and served sodas, nuts
and biscuits. When all have arrived, tea and bread are
served. Then follows more sitting in seats and talking
until. dinner is served. After dinner comes more sodas
and then the program, which usually involves each gu-
est, or in a large party ‘selected guests, making a
speech. The Guest of Honor is finally saluted and then
is expected to open the dancing. The music (battery op-
erated record players—a step up from a Close—and-
—Play) goes on all night, with a few spare rooms pro-
vided for those who can’t make it.

Because the party styles and customs are-so differ-

ent, mixed parties are often difficult to bring off suc-

cessfully, without having one group pre—dominate.
Our party. turned out to be a fairly successful blend,
perhaps because the guests were evenly balanced. As
such, it was something special. I have often been
somewhat uncomfortable as one of, if not the only, for-
eigner at a party. It becomes so difficult to make any

movement, dance, or talk to anyone without the whole

‘room noticing and paying attention. For Africans at
Mazungu parties there is the same discomfort of not
quite fitting in. In addition if people are using tribal
language or speaking English very fast, others are ex-
cluded.

We had invitations, but also bring—your—own. We
had tea, but outside, and informal. We had a program
but'no guest of honor and each person made a speech
and then also received a gag gift. In this way, everyone
had something familiar and something new. Those ex-
patriates who had never attended an African party and
those Africans who had never been to an expatriate par-
ty each learned about what the other was like. .

One of the African women said during her speech
that she had never been to a party with people from dif-
ferent continents and so this day in her life “was one of
the wonderful onés.” We had fun showing each other
how we dance, what music we like and relaxing.

It had always disturbed me that during my nearly two
years here I’ve had two distinct sets of friends—A fri-
can and foreign and they rarely, if ever, mixed. It is ea-
sy to make many individual friends of all kinds, but
mixing all of them socially as a group is difficult. Past
attempts had only succeeded in making one or the other
feel uncomfortable. I’m glad I did not give up, howev-
er, and I think both learned a lot meeting on even foot-
ing in a large group. Too bad the beer wasn’t cold.

by Andy Miller

DAVIDSONIAN-

The Weeidy Newspaper of Davidson College

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler

News Editor : John Richards

Sports Editor: Steve Soud

International Editors: James Gelly, Dan Turk

Calender Editor: Susan Graves

Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams

Layout: Jeff Herrin, Lisa Boardman,

- James Rozzelle, Gary Sladcik

Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud,
Neill Cooksey, Eric Long, Kelly Sundberg

Editor EmeritustElizabeth Kiss

Staff: Mark Sheffeild, John Hartman,
Lucy Everett, Jeff Holland, John Verdi,
John Lusk, Lisa Buckley

Graphics: Susan Meyers

Advertising Manager: Karris Hernstein

Old Hand: Thriller

Tito Gadtégeaien © gubished (day Gamg Gocin -
yas By the ematenta of Gavidean Caflage, Adder essi5-
Coadenas te:

| Fixeme FROAGE ORO, aad. 162 cud 160, GiResa lecuted cy
tho tag Geer of Grey Biusteni Uaten. Suszerigdesa oa}

aa aa

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982

13
