The discussion was led by speakers
from AA and Al-Anon, as well as the
Assistant Director of Admissions, Jim-
my Williams. Mr. Willliams is an expe-
rienced counsellor on alcoholism and
dru, abuse. While it is recognized that
the meeting was information rather than
therapeutic, it is hoped that it will “raise
campus consciousness coricerming alco-
hol abuse.”

Students Take
Stand on
El-Salvador

The Charlotte Committee on El Sal-
vador recently introduced a petition urg-
ing the US Congress “to cease providing
any military aid to El Salvador, and to
reject categorically military interven-
tion of any kind.” Set up about a year
ago, the Charlotte Committee is an or-
ganization run by a number of con-
cerned individuals who espouse such
causes, and has an active membership
of around 200. Mark Barrett, a member
of the Charlotte Committee, and head of
the newly-formed Davidson Coalition
on El Salvador, has been canvassing on
campus for signatures and support, and
is pleased with the response from both
faculty and students. “Before we start-
ed, we knew that 1t wouldn’t be easy,
since it is difficult to get a positive, ac-
tive response front people. But this
issue has certain Christian and moral as-
pects which are hard to ignore. Much of
it is salient to Davidson.”

Barrett feels that the Reagan admin-
istration is particularly sensitive to criti-
cism at the moment: “With such an ag-
gregate public opinion on this matter,
and with his Budget under fire from all
sides, there is reason to believe that the
President can be persuaded to modify
his stance.”
cently published a poll.in which 89% of
those questioned voiced disapproval of
US policy in El Salvador.

Yesterday, the Davidson Coalition
on El Salvador held a meeting to plan

events for this term. Currently being or- -

ganized is a contingent for the national
demonstration in Washington D. C. on
March 27th; as well as a number of films
and meetings. Anyone interested in
joining the Coalition or attending a
meeting should contact Mark Barrett on
4682.

by Alessandro Vitelli (Rusk Scholar) |

|

Davidson Gets Rated

Davidson College appears as one
of the 265 institutions reviewed in the
first New York Times Selective Guide to
Colleges: 1982-1983. The guide in-
cludes information about colleges, and
comparative ratings of the best schools
inthe country.

The Times developed the book to
serve as a subjective, yet journalistic de-
scription of outstanding colleges and
universities.
naires were sent to Dean of Students
Terry, President Spencer, and Director
of Admissions Griffith. Then editor of
the Davidsonian, John Siman (’82) also
provided input.:Colleges were rated in
three broad categories: academics, so-
cial, and quality of life. Out of a possi-
ble 5 stars, Davidson got four, three and

Twelve-page question- |

four in each category, respectively.

Acedemics was judged by several
criteria. Factors included course offer-
ings, teaching and research, acedemic
quality of students, and facilities (size
of library, etc.).

The amount of social life is indicat-
ed by the second rating. The guide states
“a college with a rating of four or five
stars is a party school.”

Quality of life, a term taken from
the social sciences, is a broad indication
of the overall desirability of “spending
four years in the place.”

Academically, public schools

were generally rated above their private —

counterparts, “to sharpen the distinction
between the two.” Five stars were given
to Amherst, Columbia, Harvard, MIT,

and Stanford, among others. Only 23
private schools received this highest rat-
ing. Duke, Emory, Notre Dame, Van-
derbilt, and William and Mary accom-
pany Davidson in the four-star cate-
gory. No private school below the Ma-
son-Dixon line rated above four stars.

Director of Admissions John Grif-
fith was upset with the treatment re-
ceived by Davidson. He claimed that
students are not “intolerant”, and that
the publication shows a strong northern
bias. The Quality of Lifc rating given to
Davidson was one of the highest
awarded a private college.

Among the ‘select private cofleges
featured, Davidson rated in the lowest
“expense” category.

by John Richards

Newsweek magazine re- |

Oldenburg recommended a
reevaluation of Patterson Court and its
problems. He especially emphasized the
noise ordinance which *‘could be a very
dangerous and sticky matter.’’ He said
he did not agree with the firs proposal.
‘This issue will be a key one for the
social life of the whole school.”

The SGA needs to ‘‘emphasize
more work on committees ,’’ Oldenburg
said. ‘Meetings tended to bog down.”
The SGA should also work harder to
espress student needs to the
administration. ‘‘That’s an area hat
needs to be sucked for all it’s worth,”’
Oldenburg said.

Steve Reardon

Steve Reardon, a sophomore
economics major from Durham, North
Carolina, has not been an elected
member of the SGA but worked this year
on the Parents’ Weekend and Career
Symposium Committees and is

Entertainment Committee. Chairperson

for SGA Weekend this spring. Reardon
is a member of PiKA fraternity, an NC
Fellow and will be a Hall Councelor next
year:

_ “I enjoy organizational work,”
Reardon said. He added that he is ‘‘not
very political’ but likes to get things
done.

Reardon said the future of Patterson

- Court is one of the most important issues

the SGA must address.

**T will support the elimination of self-
selection and a retum to a bid system for
Reardon said. —

Other issues Reardon cited were the
need for more support for women’s
athletics and minor sports.

Reardon stressed the need to
involve students including non-SGA
members in the work of the SGA. ‘‘I’ve
alays had a positive opinion of the SGA.
I'd like to see (committee work) being
carried out more efficiently.”’

Boe Young

A junior economics major from Kansas .

City, Boe Young worked this year as an
SGA Senator on the Security and
Grounds, Admissions, and _ Trustee
Contact Committees. He co-authored
this year’s student parking proposal.

.Young was also a member of the
Residence Hall Council, Social
Chairman of ETC eating house, and
Public Relations Chairman for the SigEP
fraternity. . Young holds a ROTC
scholarship and has lettered in wrestling
at Davidson.

Young said he decided to run for Vice-
President because he had recognized the
SGA’'s potential and wanted to *‘hold an
otfice of more substance.”’

‘*I’ve been involved in a multitude of
activitieds that affect the campus,’’ Boe
said, *‘which have allowed me to acquire
a firm and basic knowledge of student
issues as well as those intangible skills of
leadership, — organization, and
motivation.’

Three major issues facing the SGA,
according to Young, are security, the
proposed noise ordinance, and the debate
over self-selection. Better lighting for

the new dorms could improve security,
and careful consideration of the noise
ordinance would include examination of
the *‘vital effect it will have both on and
off campus."’

Young said the self-selection system as
it is currently run ‘‘is ineffective in
accomplishing what it was originally
designed for. Essentially the on-campus
fraternities operate under a bid system.””

Young said if the surrent arrangement
did not arouse the College
administration’s concern, self-selectién
‘should be abolished in favor of a true
bid system’* among the fraternities, with
eating house self-selection remaining
unchanged.

“I feel | can commit myself and stick
my neck out for any issues the SGA and
students think are important.”” Young
said.

Young proposed two improvements

_ forthe SGA. The SGA should expand its

advisory role toward the Adininistration:

“SGA is the most effective method
students have of relaying ‘their thoughts
to the Administration."’ Internally, SGA
committees need an ‘‘averseer’’ to help
them improve efficiency.

Interview and story by Elizabeth Kiss

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982
