Conservativism NOTJust a

Pathological Condition

Albeit sarcastically, William F. Buckley, Jr. states
in Up From Liberalism, “I am interested in the Liberal
approaches to the conservative dissent. I think they fall
into three general categories. They are 1) Conserva-
tism does not exist. 2) Conservatism does exist, but it is
not an intellectual problem; it is one of pathology. 3)

Conservatism does exist — as a lowering political .

force that threatens to ring in a new Dark Age.” Admit-
tedly, Buckley’s notion of conservative dissent and the
first category listed above do not apply presently con-
Sidering the election of Reagan and the rise of the so-
called “New Right;” his points do, however, broadly
apply with respect to liberal views regarding traditional
conservative policy stances. One such view concerns
the defense budget.

Those of a liberal persuasion discuss and subse-
quently reject the Reagan Administration’s defense
budget on the basis of raw defense allocations. Accord-
ing to Anthony Lewis and company, the minds com-
prising an Administration which proposes to earmark
29 percent of federal outlays in fiscal 1983 for defense
purposes must be diseased and backward in an age
when the poverty and psychological conditions of the
populus must be accorded top priority. To liberals,
such percentage allocations necessarily represent a
“deviation from a healthy or normal condition,” which
is how Random House defines pathology. A defense
budget in excess of $200 billion is entirely objectiona-
ble and inexcusable to Lewis etc. But, simply the raw
size of defense allocations is not an acceptable argu-
ment versus military spending increases.

The typical argument against defense expenditures
centers on raw spendng levels and percentages in com-
parison to similar levels for heatlh, education and wel-
fare. Such bickering is simply that. The average citi-
zen, and particularly one of a definitive liberal perspec-
tive if that term holds any significance, inevitably dis-
cusses federal outlays only in terms of raw allocation
figures and percentages with no further substantiation.
This approach involves priorities which in turn involve
ambiguous ideological viewpoints. For example, the
liberal attempts to philosophically defend health, edu-
cation, welfare increases, whereas the conservative re-

- sorts to the same tactic regarding decreased govern-
ment intervention in the private sector and defense in-
creases. This leads to the conclusion that “poverty is a
more significant problem that-the international Com:

munist/Soviet threat” and vice versa — a never ending

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982.

argument. No conservative has ever been convinced by
wholly philosopical arguments offered by liberals; nor
do liberals switch camps after a conservative exposi-
tion on the defense situation. , (e.g. - Years of relative-
ly low military spending vis a vis massive expenditures
by the Soviets have forced the recent U.S. increases
and/or the need for a solid national defense for deter-
rence certainly merits a defense budget in excess of
$200 billion for a nation of the size and wealth of the
U.S.) After examining spending levels and the Soviet
arms. buildup ovr the past 25 years in greater detail,
such a conservative stance seems realistic to me, but I
also recognize that liberals could hardly accept my rati-
onale.

One often hears liberal. Democratic ideologues cite
percentage comparisons when espousing health or wel-
fare increases when they could gain real support by ex-
amining specific defense allocations and highlighting
inefficiency, waste, needless systems, etc. (Social
welfare corruption and ineffieciency seem to have been
examined a bit more closely.) Why not scrutinize the
specifics -of proposed defense expenditures and critic-
ize budget proposals intelligently as opposed to an im-
precise, comparative approach? Simply stated, I am in
general agreement with the proposed overall budgetary
allocations for defense, but find the specifics of the Ad-
ministration’s (Weinberger) defense plans more objec-
tionable. Essentially, the following represents home-
work for armchair liberals, but such work probably
wouldn’t be accomplished otherwise.

For purposes of brevity, I would here point out three _

objections to Weitiberger’s proposals with regard to (1)
the B1 bomber, (2) the M1 battle tank, and (3) the Nav-
y’s P3 patrol plane. The Administration has proposed
that $4.8 billion be spent on the B1 bomber, but sizable
amounts have also been set aside for duplicative wea-
pons. Millions would be channeled into the F15 and
F16 fighters, both new bombers, $864 million would
purchase cruise missiles to replace the B1, and nearly

$500 million would be appropriated to upgrade the
‘B52. Why spend $1.5 billion (app.) on duplicative sys-

tems when $4.8 billion is poured into the new B1? Se-
condly, although $230 billion would purchase new
lightweight tanks for the Rapid Deployment Force, no
cutbacks have been forwarded in the proposed pur-
chase of 7,000 M1 battle tanks. The Adminstration’s
budget yields $2 billion to buy 776 M1s, which are
ponderous, heavy tanks and somewhat outdated. Last-

ly, $363 million is questionably set aside to fund the
Navy’s P3 patrol plane. $363 million despite the fact
that the Navy will not need new P3s for five years. The
Pentagon had decided to stop the P3 program, but has
since reinstated the funding plans.

Other examples could be offered, but the point is

\clear. With some examination, the shortcomings of the

Administration’s defense. plans can be identified and
publicized. It-seems that such an approach is logical
and acceptable and should be employed by anti-Ad-
ministration doves in opposing defense allocations for
fiscal 1983. (e.g. — Channel these funds away from
inefficiency in the Defense budget toward health, wel-
fare, etc.) The Right must be logically refuted and not
written off as a pathological condition. Perhaps conser-
vatives would lend an ear to liberal barking if armchair
liberals utiized such a realistic, penetrating approach.

On
e can only imagine! by Van Beck ‘82

Europa and
the Bull Market

Prometheus bound

-To a second mortgage.

The wisdom of the ages cannot help us
To balance our checkbook.

Our Cesar has left Gaul undivided,
Preferring instead to partition the classes.
But stay. There are still heroes.

Only there are no common folk,
Awestruck, to perpetuate them.

Chosen men still meet destiny,

But their epics are far too lengthy

And sound, for all the world, like annual reports.

Oh, the accountant sings songs sublime
To lull and appease Pythagoras.

And the typist beats time,

Rousing those on campaigns who lay siege
To market shares in other territories.
Whilst gods do battle over the futures.

by James Gelly ‘82

15
