PIRG: A Matter of

Survival

To The Editor:

Another academic year has flown by
and soon we will break for summer.
Then, next fall, life at Davidson will
pick up again. But it is not that simple.

Davidson’s chapter of the Public In-
terest Research Group, an organization
which for more than a decade has of-
fered. Davidson: students a .chance. to
take an active role in community, na-
tional, and global affairs, is presently in
danger of dying. Unless some interested
people speak up now, P.I.R.G. will not
be back next fall. .

Not many yéars ago, Davidson’s
chapter of the national P.I,R.G. net-
work was appealing to many students
who sought a chance to participate in
numerous consumer and environmental
projects and learn about contemporary
issues. In those days P.I.R.G. consisted
of ten or fifteen students committed to a
variety of projects. including generic
drug surveys, a feasibility study of a

bottle deposit law, a listing of available

off-campus student housing, and the
publishing of a booklet entitled “Guide-
lines for Tenants.” Members of
P.I.R.G. also participated in efforts to
lobby the state legislative assembli¢s on
these consumer issues.

As the school years passed, ‘and a
pool Sense of security swept across

stialeed tke sues battered Tre tack.

of interest. Davidson. P.IL.R.G.’s mem-

bership fell 50% and the degree of com- _for

_ mitment of those involved was reduced.

In the past few years, we, the current ©
_members of P.I.R.G., have responded —

to the lack of people power by reducing

the emphasis on research. Although our —

final project last spring produced an ex-
tensive formal report on the energy effi-
ciency of Davidson's perimeter hous-

ing, we chose this year to concentrate

less on this kind.of work, and more on °

relaying information and awareness
about political issues to the campus and
community.

This year, P.I.R.G. has sponsored
such programs as a petition against Se-
cretary of the Interior, James Watt; an
informal meeting with a plant manager
from McGuire Power Station; a slide
show and discussion on the Ku Klux
Klan; and an informative session on the

_ Family Protection Act. All these events

were well received and sparked impor-
tant discussion and action on the part of
those who attended. P.I.R.G. can be
and has been a vital contributor to the
Davidson College community.

But the problem is this: P.I.R.G.’s
core of four will be reduced to one next
year. Due to the graduation of two

‘members and the departure of one for

JYA, P.I.R.G.’s.core will be Jennie

- Barnhardt, and she cannot and will not

do it alone. She shouldn’t be expected
to, for an effective organization cannot
justifiably be built‘around one person.
PIRG offers a number of opportuni-
ties to interested students. It is part of a
statewide’ network that has chapters on
several campuses including Guilford
and Duke. We have an extensive ac-

. cumulation of information on many

issues at the “PIRG desk” and have fur-

ther access to resources including staff

members and lobbying groups. Carl
Whitman, an NC-PIRG staff worker
from Durham, was’enthusiastic during
his visit, nag ne ‘week about helping

kin ler aes
in ee ors m BIRG could aid in

sud ered independ.
| projects. In other words,

fe ra ann R ca Na
pus, but only with your help. We see
a ee rps a of an

ofucator whether in research, _ lec-

tures, presentations, or political lobby-
ing. PIRG helps to make people’ more
aware of the social, economic, ‘environ-
mental,: and political issues that affect
our lives. Davidson College PIRG is an

" otganization that we would like to have

back next year and for years'to come.
Your positive response needs to be ex-

pressed to Jennie Barnhardt (892-6119, °

Box 1821, or 892-6562:at mealtimes) by
Friday, May 7 if PIRG is to continue to
fill its unique role at Davidson College.

Jennie Barnhardt ’84
Chris Gunn ’84
Geoffrey Little ’82
Jeanie McIntyre ’82

To the Editor: Re

We are ashamed of the lack of desire
for political. awareness demonstrated by
the Davidson community in its sparse

‘attendance at the recent Julian Bond ap-

‘William F. Buckley’s packed au-
dience was impressive. ‘However, to
fully understand various issues, we
should make every effort to understand

‘their many perspectives.

Am hour and a half out of a.night may
mean_a few less points on a test, but Da-
vidson only lasts four years. After that
we must face the real world.

Kenneth Pooley ’85
Roxanna Guilford ’85
Thurston Hatcher °85

DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Editor: Stewart Cauley -

Executive Editor: Brian Butler

News Editor: David Resnik

Assistant News Editor: John Richards

Associate News Editor: Jeff Mann

Sports Editor: Stéven Soud

Opinions Editor: Danny Armistead

Calendar Editor: Susan Graves

Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams

Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin

-Photograghy Staff: Randy Stroud, Kelly Sundberg, 7
Anderson Scott, Mark Sheffield

Production: Lisa Boardman, Jeff Herrin, Ann Meador
James Rozzelle

John Lusk

’

_ Staff: Andy Wilson, John Hartman, John Glance, John
Verdi, Jeff Holland, Dianna Bohrer, Peter Gulyn,
Alessandro Vitelli, Debbie Eisenbise, Jeff Hamilton,
Matt Merrill, Elizabeth Smiley, Thurston Hatcher, Jim
Troutman, Linda Hulburt, Scott Huie, Scott Beaver '

/ Foreign Correspondent: Andy Miller, Chris Marsh-

‘ burn, John Stipp_

Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss

Advertising Manager: Karis Hermstein
New Blood: Mark :

-DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982
