Gelly Objects To Objectivism =

. rh
vests the most in its people which will pull the U.S. and
the human race through an economic slump afd into
the next century. Why, then, take a harsh necessity like
a tax cut and elevate it to the level of a virtue? Objecti-

vism won't take us very far down the road. a

Times have changed. It used to be that any mention
of Ayn Rand was met with snickers and uncharitable
comments in a Davidson Philosophy class. But she
has, it seems, come out of the wood work now that
Reagan and the “new Right” are in vogue. Why is she
not my cup of tea? It is because objectivism is an anti-
social,counter-productive, and pseudo-intellectual
ideology. But let me explain.

I would define objectivism as an extremist ideol-
ogy distiguished by. its ego-centricity and ‘simplistic
world view. It proclaims. selfishness as a virtue and
despises “Collectivism” in any form. Well, “collecti-
vism” is school lunches, roads, Medicare, education,
and things like unemployment compensation. Not only

are they prerequisites of a civilized society, they are’

necessary to a vastly complex economy such as ours.

Individuals cannot have complete control. over the
wide fluctuations of business cycles, for instance.

‘Children ought to have something in the way of educa-
tion to counteract the mindlessness of television. Col-
leges and Universities prepare men and women to enter
the work force. In economics, expenditures on things
like education.and school lunches are called invest-

ment in “human capital”. These things aren’t luxuries; *

but rather, the health of the U.S. economly and society
depends on them.

But objectivists. see such ‘ ‘collectivism” as hateful
and wrong. They believe Reagan’s tax cuts are morally
good. But Reagan’s plans to cut taxes are diferent from
ojbjectivist ideology. The unprecedented 25 year peri-
od of prosperity and economic growth called “Post-war
Boom” is over: we have enterd an era of scarcity. Tax
cuts are a response to slower growth; it is hoped they
will lead to higher investment and more growth. To
compensate for the decreased intake of revenue, the
Federal Government has cut many social expenditure
programs. Not because it hates them, but: because our
idealism has been tempered by harsh economic reali-

ad rd
setae AD, dae

: James Gelly °82”

ties. I’m no Reaganite:, IE just ‘want to distinguish ‘be-.

‘tween cutting taxes and outright hating them, We may

differ in our opinions of how much taxation and go-
vernment spending, but the position that there soul
be none ‘at all is untenable.

‘What concerns me most about objectivism is its ex-
tremism. It hates collectivism and taxes almost as
much as it hates Communism and the Soviet Union.
Unfortunately , the objectivist writers haven’t bothered

‘to exactly learn anything about them. Objectivism isn’t
academic, its emotive. I’m no ‘Communist, but it
seems to me that the world has absolutely nothing to

- gain from: blind, ideological hatred of things like So-

cialism-especially when no attempt is made to think
critically, ‘The world economy is entering a period of
scarcity. Both superpowers are concerned with resour-
ces and with the maneuvres of the other. What, then, is
the’ point of asking for trouble with slander and hostili-
ty? The real battle between the two superpowers is be-
ing fought in underdeveloped countries which desper-
ately want a bettef quality of life. These nations don’t
want weapons because they like to kill—they want bet-
ter lives. Neither superpower will “win” a nuclear war,
but raqther success will depend on which can better im-
prove the quality of life of the people.

Which brings me back to my starting point: in a
world where resources are increasingly scarce and
where national economies are all struggling, there is
little sense in adopting anti-social, judgemental, and
simnplistic philosophies which exalt selfishness. Ex-
tremism, likewise, is only asking for conflict. Looking.
towards the future, it is not an arms race that will deter-
mine which superpower prevails. Arms expenditures
only eat up resources. It is that superpower which in-

[o)
o LO
O

Western Retaliation

The American imposition of sanctions against the

Polish military regime and the Soviet Union was moral -

and prudent but wisely did not preclude tougher ac-

_ tions. Many questions the efficacy and suitability of

the actions taken. Bearing in mind domestic political
constraints, the U.S. actions were the minimum possi-
ble yet not completely innocuous. It is true that no level
of U.S. sanctions, unless instituted in concert with our
Western. allies, can inflict severe punishment on the
Soviets or Poles. Yet are we simply to ““excoriate” our
adversaries “castigate” “condemn” or whatever syn-
onym one wishes to use to express ineffectual rhetori-
cal action?

‘Two: Polish ambussadors vieived the egregious ac-
tions anid then defected. Should-we members of the al-
liance. “Scrutinize ‘the “events any, less carefully. than
these. ‘two formers. important. Communist party
. members? Ther, ‘fears shouldbe ours: the action taken

outrage for the i actions taken,

was not done so to later bring about reform but rather a
suppression of a national movement with unforeseea-
bly gloomy portentions. By all definitions basic human
rights were violated by the action. Lech Walesa re-
mains under house arrest, thousands of union members
were arrested and placed in concentration camps,

workers were manhandled and killed. Under the Hel-

sinhi Accord of 1975, whereby the West recognized the
de facto borders of post-World War IJ in return for a
modicum ef Soviet and other communist regime’ $ Te-

spect by basic human rights, all violations of human
rights bysignatories to the Accord are of concern to and
subject. to appropriate action bythe other signatories,

The U.S. acted in accordance and imposed the sane:

tions on food deliveries to Poland and certain other in=
conveniences to the Polish government. Ifthe U.S” ac-
tion is indeed only. symbolic, it at least expresses out,

‘Turn topage 15 aie,

ET PERS BN TAS MANNE RIEL NOI LO ORL SAS LIS BER

yi88?
