Dr. Ernest Go

Clatving a faith in his soul by the horrors of a prison.
er of war camp, Dr. Ernest Gordon repeated for David-

son: College audiences this week the age-old Christian
message, “love your enemy as your Lord and ye shall’

be free.”

As this year’s Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar,

Gordon made five public talks concerning “The Free-

dom’ to: Be.” He also attended several Religion Depart-'

ment classes and met privately with individuals during
his three-day stay.

The Staley Series was established by the late Tho-
mas F. Staley ’25.to extend the opportunities for Chris-
tian faith in the Davidson community.

The calm and commitment with which Gordon pres-
ented the power of God’s love, accented by his Scottish
brogue, made an impression on the 50 or so students,
faculty an staff who attended each talk.

“Tt fires you up,” said Jodie Kinnet’85. “Listening to
him showed me again how much more important hu-
man compassion is.than anything.else.”

Norman Gordon, another freshman, added, “He
makes you reauize that you can make good come of any
situation. As-he said, there are no walls.”

Speaking confidently of an inner peace unknown to |

most of his audience, Gordon had said’ about his pri-
soner-of-war experience, “In every way the impossible
seemed possible.”

He then spoke of horror.and miracle side by side in
the jungle along the “railroad of death” that Japan built
with captive labor through Burma and es during
World War...

Gordon was acommander in the 2nd Battalion of the
Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders. He recalled how,
despite: the. worst of conditions, the prisoners built a

_ university of dialogue, formed their own theatre and art
world, held a joyous Christmas dinner, drew medicine
for their pain from plants, and shared their blood to stay
alive. Still, it was said that a man died for every railway
Sl

Gordon and his comrades learned the meaning of

“love your enemy” as they-nursed wounded Japanese .

soldiers abandoned for dead by their own troops. After
the war, several former POWs testified on behalf of
some of their captors at military tribunals.

“St was impossible to do healing,.education and the
arts in that situation,” said Gordon, former Dean of the
Princeton University, “But when we are set’.

of. God. to allow loving relationships —

fred

with one; sates it is possible to do the impossible.
We realized there was.a power in our midst greater than
that\ of. imprisonmeit--and realized later it was the
grage of God. My physical life was saved, but I-was left
" wondering what to.do with the life given me,”
‘Gordon became a minister in the Church of Scotland
in 1950,. but, proclaims. that ’ ‘my church i is wherever I
ate
“Hei is currently president of. the Cheiatign Rescue
Effort for the Emancipation of Dissidents (CREED),
ington, D.C.
‘Founded i in 1980 by. an act of Congress, CREED is a

| of reconciliation, working g to’ communicate ;

rdon: »

Freedom To Be

letters for Gordon and CREED calling for the release of
religious prisoners. Gordon cited Mark ©. Hatfield,
senator from Oregon; Jack Kemp, representative from
New. York; and James A. Leach, representative from:
Towa, as being especially helpful.

. CREED also broadcasts Biblical lessons behind the
Iron Curtain and éducates people here at home to the
plight of Christians in many countries abroad.

“You,have to realize 67: million people have been
eliminated in Russia and there are: 2,000 prison camps
today,” Gordon said. Though his radio broadcasts and
bureaucratic.appeals have scant effect, he has lived un-
der.similar tyranny. He understands and rejoices in let-
ters like one he received from Father Gleb Yakunin, a

priest of the Russian Orthodox Church and chairman of
the Christian Committee for the Defense of Persecuted
Believers:

“I believe in the coming resurrection of Russia. May
she, like Lazarus, hear the miraculous call’of ‘Come
Forth!” At this moment while the reality of Russia is
Golgatha, multitudes of faithful stand in dire need of
your fraternal aid in defense of their rights. ..

Gordon said he had been speaking twelve hours a day
for the last three weeks before he visited Davidson. He
preached peace in the world, and claimed it could only
come. through Christian freedom, as Opposed to the
secular freedom of “doing what we damn well please.”
The. appeal was to strengthen people: who believe now

and to educate others who, he is confident, will join
him.

Bill Giduz (Mr. Giduz is Asst. Director of Communi-
cations and a member of the classof 1975)

9

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982
