Support the SAE, Davidson College -

BIKETHON

on SAturday, March 20

-10:00 AM

For more info call:

Warren Lackey -6615

GIVE TO THE |
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY.

aS
—

continued from page |
that we will never be forced by econom-
ic circumstances to tie our. admissions

policies with ability to. pay.”
According to Stevenson, Davidson

will try to “shelter the impact” of the .
federal cuts. The United States govern-

ment currently provides 80% of the allo-
cations for the Work-Study program.
The College will try to match its losses
with an additional 20% in institutional
funding. The financial aid office will al-
so rely heavily. on contributions from
Alumnae and friends of the College.
Davidson is also encouraging corpora-
tions to establish new scholarship pro-
grams.

Davidson College cannot replace all
of the financial aid cuts, however.
Those that do not have a demonstrated
need, mostly upper-middle. class stu-
dents, will lose money from the Guaran-
teed Student Loan Program.

If the Reagan administration suc:
ceeds in altering. the GSL, Sophomore
Bill Crone will not procure a loan next
year. “As it looks now, I will not receive
a student loan next year,” said Crone,
“Tl still be able to attend school, but it
will be a hardship on my family.”

Even students who have a demon-
strated need. are apprehensive about
Reagan’ $ proposed | financial aid cuts.
t (the cuts) is going to make the private

colleges the way they were 20 years
ago, for the affluent only,” said fresh-
man Warren Gould. “He (President
Reagan) is distributing his money in the
wrong places. He doesn’t have his
priorities in the right order,” comment-
ed freshman Greg Rhodes.

College President Sam Spencer also
feels that Reagan has his priorities in the
wrong order. “Some programs become
a luxury in times of stress, but student
aid budgets are not a luxury,” said Dr.
Spencer.

As a member-of the Association of

_American Colleges, Dr. Spencer is in-

volved in a struggle to stop the financial
aid reductions. The AAC is united in an
effort to persuade Congress to spare stu-
dent aid from a swarm of budget cuts.
“Congress is the point at which the bat-
tle will be won or lost,” said Dr.

_ Spencer. -
The Financial Aid Office is launch-

ing a letter-writing campaign to
members of Congress. “Both student
aid receipients and those not receiving
aid are encouraged to become involved
in this effort,” said Stevenson. She is re-
leasing a létter this week that urges fac-
ulty, students, and ‘staff to become in-

‘volved in the fight against student finan-

cial aid cuts.

"by David Resnik ‘85

Es

cont inued from page T
value, make borrowers pay market in-

terest rates (up from the current nine -

percent) starting two years after leaving
school, and limit GSLs to students with
“un-met needs.”

More than 300,000 independent
college students would . probably be
forced out of school, predicts John Phil-
lips of the National Association of Inde-
pendent Colleges and Universities.

“Assuming only half of those who
drop out of independent colleges” go on
‘to public’ colleges, Phillips~ estimated
“states would have to increase their sub-
sidies by more than $500 million.”

Allan Ostar of the American Associ-
ation of State Colleges and Universities

then pointed out that many states them--

selves have been badly hurt by the re-
cession, and were unable to make up the
difference.

He pointed out that.most states’ allo-
cations to their public colleges haven’t
increased as fast as inflation.

Dea Colleye-Work-Suy;:
' State Incentive

Grants 4

Still others worried about the ability
of the 839,000 public college students
who now get aid to hold on.

A Southern Illinois University sur-
vey found that 61 percent of its students
doubt | they’ ll be able to continue in
school full time next fall, when the first
round of Reagan education cuts takes
effect.

Those worries are echoed around °
the country:

‘\Dr.. William Pickens of the Califor-
nia Post-Seoondary:-Education Commis-
sion frets about a “step-ladder effect” in
which private college students will have
to transfer to’ public colleges, where
they will displace the. poorest students
on the public campuses. Those stu-
dents, in turn, would-be bumped down

- the ladder to:two-year institutions. The

less-well-endowed students in commu-
nity colleges will then be displaced, he

fears. College Press Service with
» David + Resnick:

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday.19 March 1982
