row Eth aon!

To the Editor: ;

To those of you struggling through the
rigors of Academics at Davidson, per-
haps you. would be interested in. being
brought up to date concerning the 12
students participating in Dr. Ligo’s Art
History seminar in France. Those:on the
trip with Dr. Ligo include: Mebane At-
wood, Eileen Benner, Margaret Evans,
David Fleming, Margaret Holt, Stan
Hynds, Mark Murrey, Sarah Nock,
Joyce Robinson, Lisa Robinson, Nor-
wood Smith, and myself.

Since our arrival on March 20, we
have been swamped with new sights and
knowledge which we have eagerly. ab-

rbed. For most, of us, confusion,was .
epee : OSt-O v as ti

the norm during our first few days at Pa-
ris. Gradually as we learned our way

around the maze of streets and became.

accustomed to French signs and direc-
tions, some order to it all became appar-
ent.

We spent our first week in Paris stud-
ying 19th century painting in the Lou-
vre. What a thrill it was to see the works
by the famous painters that we have stu-
died so much about in the past. Unfartu-
nately the “Mona Lisa” was shielded be-
- hind.a glaring sheet of glass due to that
last episode of vandalism done on her.

Also in Paris we studied in the
Cathedral of Notre Dame to begin our
we wete off to Chartres, France to see
the beautiful cathedral there—where
most of the brilliant stained glass of the
1200s still exists.

We were given a rare tour through
Chartres Cathedral by the primary au-
thority of the Cathedral, Malcolm
er. Mr. Miller took us way up over t
vaults of the nave and then around the
upper heights of the exterior—right un-

der the tremendous flying buttresses

In addition,
the

we land te ois

com-
tc buldng trom sclpure the Per

tals to the figures on the stained glass. In
essence, we read the 12th century per-
son’s Bible.

Also while in Chartres we stayed with
French families. What a great way it
was to compare life in a French home
with that in an American home. The fa-
ther of my French family is a world-re-
knowned stained glass maker. Surpris-
ingly, my Chartres home was very sim-
ilar to a home in the United States. The
conveniences that I am used to .at home
for the most part existed there too: TV,
modern kitchen, modern bathrooms,
ping pong table, and so forth.

Yet my. home,in Chartres had a.dis- _

tinclly European flavor. It was old,
classy, and had objets d’art throughout.
And it was cold. inside except for the
room with a fireplace. Close by was the
stained glass workshop with a yard full
of chickens and turkeys in between.

At the time of this writing, we are

back in Paris for another week of study--

ing in the Louvre, anticipating our two-
week trip by car through France to study
more medieval architecture. Having
been in France only three weeks, I hard-

ask someone a question in French, |
<ennetah ie Gaaek Sila tohctenen

— ‘
friendliness on their part, while at the
same time I feel insulted. Surely I’m not
that bad a speaker of French. .

To be an obvious American in France

_- is not all thatenjoyable. I get the distinct

feeling that the French have some anim-

~- sity towards Americans. The Briti-

sh—at least the young British—seem

’ quite the opposite. Several British teen-

agers I have met in Paris told me they
love America. One person even said his
greatest wish was to: move to America.

A group of young British school
children had similar thoughts about our
country. One kid even said she loves the
way I talk. I laughed at their stereotypes
of Americans—gained mostly from
TV. Did you know that all American
girls have braces, that all American men
have big shoulders, and that we all live
in “posh” houses like the Knots Landing
TV program? .

If I had to compare French ways with
American ways, I could certainly list
merits for each. I like the lack of waste
characteristic of life here. The tiny cars
somehow don’t seem so bad. We could
learn from the French in their use of
lights which automatically turn off after
a few minutes, and escalators which run
only when someone ison them. As far
as not taking a shower every day, maybe
that’s going a little too far. We’ ve had to

pay extra for the privilege of a daily-

shower.
Yes, I do miss many of the luxuries

we take for granted in the United States,

like having ice available, or a water
fountain, but things are quite sufficient
nontheless. France carries on by itself
pretty much ignoring the affairs of the
United States or the other countries
close by.

John Stipp ’83

Mud Club?

|

sponsibility for the create. I
aa leeemenende ole
tow in the future.

To the Editor:

As the ROTC cadet in charge of the
recent Spring Blood Drive I would like
to take this opportunity to thank all the
student, faculty, and staff menibers who
took time out: and. graciously donated
their blood last Monday. Ww collected
269 pints of blood, the highest total for a

_ Spring Blood Drive in several years. In

addition, I would also like to thank the
various local merchants who donated

‘ many-gifts and prizes‘ and werd jis bi f

mental in our success. They were: Ga-
briel Sporting Goods, King of Pizza,..
The Little Kitchen, The Méeting Place,
Anheuser-Busch, The Tonsure, Gus’s
Gourmet Kitchen, The Peregrine
House, The Flower Cart, and The
Chef’s Cap.

Sincerely,

James V. Young Jr.
CDT 2LT
OIC Blood Drive .

To the Editor:

This past week at Spring Convoca-
tion a number of awards and honors
were announced. Among these was the
selection of new members for Omicron
Delta’ Kappa, O.D.K. Many people
may not realize what this organization
represents and how students are chosen.

The Delta Circle of O.D,K. was es-
tablished at Davidson College in 1917.
It is an honorary society that recognizes
the leadership of students in various col-
legiate activities. These areas include

holarship, athletics, ial :
and religion, campus government and
the arts.

O.D.K. members are responsible
for setting up the practice interviews
that seniors take advantage of in the
winter. Betsy Thomas, Pres. of
O.D.K., deserves special recognition
for all the time and effort she put in to
make this project successful. These in-
terviews provide an excellent opportu-
nity for students to gain experience in
this aspect of job hunting. Many stu-
dents took part in it.

‘O.D.K. members are also responsi-
ble for collecting and evaluating appli-
cations for the Teaching Award it pres-
ents each spring at Convocation. Pro-
fessors are evaluated on their commit-
qauieataptaeReeeBanrsogticcas:

to the college and the com-
munity and their degree of involvement
