Record reviews with Jon Glance |

B-52’s

One of the saddest sights in rock
music is the band which has one. hit
and then spends the rest of their career
trying to recover the success from
their initial effort. I am happy to say,
however that the B-52‘s don‘t qualify

lease, Mesopotamia (or their forth if
you count the embarassing and easily
forgettable Party Mix EP) the B-52‘s
reach for a maturity of style that often
succeeds, and only rarely do they ev-
en resemble the mindless minimalist
party band of their first album.

A good deal of this commendable
inight the result of their ©

teur David Byrne of the Talking
‘Heads. The ran be concentrates
on and accentuates the basic duaity of
the B-52"s, a8 revealed on their first
two albums. The first side features the
band’s more sensual, subtle person-
, with the songs “Loveland,” the hyp-
notic “Deep. Sleep,” and the. throb-
bing “Mesopotomia.” The other side
is made up of the sillier, rowdier tunes
entitled “Cake,” the potential dance
hit “Throw That Beat in the Garbage
Can,” and “Nip It in the Bud.” The
overall. Arend ‘Seems to be wwe

as a one-shot band. On their third re- _

David Byrne’s p ao
while noticeable, is not so. ‘obvious ‘:

choice ‘of producer—New Wave au- . 5;
“that it turns the B-52’s into sophisti-’ ~

Mesopotamia

«iis , \
songs more similar to “Give Me Back

My Man” (from their last album Wild
Planet) as opposed to a rehash of
“Rock Lobster.”

The band’s use of more inchtruntients’ ;

is the mostnoticeable change. on the
EP. Although “found” sounds ‘have
always been part of their sound (é.g.
the toy piano and walkie-talkie on

their debut LP) Byrne has added more

extensive keyboards and even a tape-
altered horn and accordion section on

one song. Piano, clavinet, and even.

prepared piano is used tastefully and
to. good effect on. various passages.

claims the silliest lyrics, such as “The

neighbors are complaining/It’s get-
ting out of hand/Throw that beat/In
the garbage can,” as if they were the
most. obvious, important. things ‘he

knows. Ricky Wilson’s guitar still
- whips off catchy, clanging riffs, and

' Cindy Wilson and Kate Pierson still

achieve posite harmonies with i

uderdale

ni nights, 8 sah

Probably the best song on the EP is

the title tune. With its playful, bouncy
bass‘ line fading sup under a pusing

- > damn beat, it provides a perfect back-

drop for the vocal didlogue between a

breathy ingenue who wants to’ meet
the jerky leading man (who is “‘nostu- |

dent of ancient culture”) over by the
third pyramid.1The unlikely tryst is
culminated with the chorus “Six or
eight thousand years ago/They se

down the law/In Mesopotomia,” wi
the whole absdurd tune caching tl the

weight of a sobk-hop with Flasitaa: a

bi. This is the B-52's at their playful
and hip best:
The new EP by the B-52’s, while ©

having a few weak'spots, consistently: |
> projects a‘ reflection of’ a ‘maturing
band which is moving ahead into ‘new ©

territory while avoiding the pitfall of
alienating its audience by abandoning
the strongest of its original aspects.
The ‘goofy personalities in the band
are what we have come to‘anticipate
in this “tacky little dance band” from
Athens, Georgia, and Mesopotamia
doesn’t let us down.

