Yes, Yes
Nanette

Beardon Dancers
Shine

The Nanette Beardon Contemporary Dance Theater
graced Davidson’s campus this past Tuesday, and their
performance was warmly received despite sparse at-
tendance. This well-rounded all-black company from
New York is directed by Nanette Beardon, the wife of
well-known visual artist and recipient of a Davidson
Honorary degree, Romere Beardon.

The company presented a varied and stimulating pro-
gram which opened with a contemporary jazz number
entitled “For Stan,” which made for a highly energetic
and extra start. The program hit it’s only low with the
second piece, “Conquistador,” which was both danced

and choreographed by Rommel Reaux. Mr: Reaux is
an accomplished dancer with. wonderful stage pres-

ence, but his downfall was in his choreography which -

started out slowly, and much to the audience’s dismay
remained so. He repeatedly built tip to climaxes he
never seemed to hit. Boring choreography aside, it was
delightful to watch a dancer with such a precise and
beautiful technique as Mr. Reaux’s. ~

The first half of the show closed with “Threshhold,”
danced by the women of the company. It opened with
the reading of a poem which dealt with feeling of pride
unity. As the women danced individually and in unison
they portrayed a strong affirmation of Black solidarity.

. +
“Wali.

_ The sécond half.of the program opened with a pas de -
deuxentitled “I Love The Lord,” danced by Michelle
Saranne and Alfred Dove. The piece presented a new
version. of the story of Adam and Eve in which Adam
resists the apple.-Mr. Dove danced with radiating in-
tensity which tended to overshadow Ms. Saranne at
times, but together they were beautiful. The piece was
very touching, joyful, and full of sensitivity.

The show. closed with “A & S,” an exciting, high-
energy jazz number danced by the entire company with
music by Ashford and Simpson. The piece was per-

formed with a wonderful flare characterisitc of the

company. ,

On the whole the program was a pure delight. Bril-
liant direction and highly talented, energetic young
dancers added up to nothing less than wonderful. The
company will be returning to North Carolina in Octob-

er, providing a future cultural opportunity for an excit-

ing evening which should not be missed.

. Beth Geiger ’84

=
r

|

EAPC OOZIA

pe

(St hod

<4

Bills been:

ren \
Ting “Ss oy
for 80 yF wa thank God aes

! : éod
inally Iisreniag! And thanks
vind! shill Free ty reap ME
benifits of our birthrisny”

Alumny
eckend,

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982

