Volume Lox, Number 18

The Weekly Newspaper 0 of Davidson n College

seal April 1982

ea ae and the 1987 Pro gram

The First in a Three part Series

This story on the history of recent
development at Davidson is the first in a
series of three articles on local Devel:
opment. Next week,-part two will detail

_deyelopment in the Davidson communi-
ty. A final analysis of the benefits of
planned development will follow.

Davidson College will have a very
different campus in the near future if
present plans for Development are real-
ized.

Under the auspices of the 1987 Pro-:

gram, the Development-Office is work-
ing on modernization of existing build-
ings, and has many new buildings on the
drawing board. A new look for the cam-
pus is underway. Nearly six million dol-
lars, has already been spent, on three

andseveral major Fen0=) ~

vations. The final cost will be much
higher.
On February 15, 1974, the Budget,

Buildings, and Grounds Sub-Commit- —

tee on Campus Planning issued a report
which cited major areas of improvement
which needed immediate attention. The
group, chaired by Physical Plant Direc-
tor Grover Meetze, said the College’s
most urgent need was student housing.
The 150 student increase in enroll-
ment since that report was issued has
only exacerbated the housing crunch. In
order to meet the increasing demand on
housing, the College built Irwin. and
Knox dorms on the northeast end of Pat-
terson Court. These dorms. opened in
September of this year. Student housing

is tighter than ever, due to the withdra-

wal of perimeter housing for faculty
use.

- The Sub-Committee identified the
renovation and modernization of the
Martin Chemical Laboratory as another
urgent need. The building, constructed
in 1941, underwent a major renovation
in 1978-1979. After going for over 35
years without any real improvements, it
lagged far behind the needs of the
Chemistry department.

The Vail Commons, completed at
the beginning of this year, met concerns
of not only the Sub-Committee, but also
the Trustees. Prior to the opening of the
Commons, all freshmen and many of

the upperclassmen who did not eat on

Patterson Court ate in Richards and Bai-
ley houses. Although these houses were
designed to feed only 80 or so students
each, they served as many as 400. Fur-
thermore, the College needed a facility

‘where it could serve large groups at Col-

lege-sponsored meals. Although the
Chambers gallery formerly served this
function, the new facility will both
solve the over-crowding problem and
provide better food service through bet-
ter facilities. The Trustees’ wishes for a
Satisfactory mass dining facility have
been met.

Historical renovations have also
begun on the precinct house, that cur-

Continued on page 7

Alternative

WDAYV will continue to provide an al-
ternative music program-ming service.
Beginning May 3, 1982 Flipsides and
Jazzsides, currently being broadcast
from 10 PM to 1 AM, will begin at
11PM to allow for another hour of daily
classical music pro-gramming.

Alternative radio attempts to play the
best of today’s rock, new-wave, jazz
and reggae not for its commercial value
or popu-larity, but only for its quality.
Anything played on local stations is off

_ limits, as well as anything that was No.

1 on the charts after about 1960.
Station Manager John Clark’s deci-
sion follows a three month evaluation of

alternative programming by himself and
the WDAV Advisory Board. The Advi-
sory Board is composed of 25 citizens
from the eight county listening area.
Two students (Sherburne Laughlin,
‘83, and Lisa Thomas, ‘85) and three
professors (Bill Lawing, Ed Palmer,
and Tom Clark) currently serve on the
strictly advisory—not decision-ma-
king—group.

Clark isssued a memorandom to the
WDAYV staff on January 13, 1982 ex-
plaining his reasons fir questioning al-
ternative programming. The . current
programming, he said, was “not well
defined” and “lacked focus”. The disc

Radio—

jockey was allowed to choose the whole
program himself, the only criterion for
selection being “music not heard on oth-
er stations”. This criterion, said Clark,
was not enough. A well thought- out
format and a limited listener-request
time slot was needed.

Alternative music director Jonathon
Glance, along with disc jockeys Jon
Lawry and Todd Swofford, met with the
advisory board in March. The boards’ i-
nitial support for alternative radio was
not large. Says Clark: “They had a nar-

. row notion of what alternative radio was

Continued on page 7

