To The Editor:

As a participant in the El Salvador
Protest of March 27 in Washington,
D.C., I was pleased by The Davidson-
ian’s effort to cover the event in last

week’s issue, but somewhat disappoint- —

ed by the inaccuracy of much of that
coverage. I refer, in particular, to Jeff
Mann’s article (“El Salvador—Déja
Vu”), which portrayed the event as a
mishmash convocation of unorganized
splinter groups undermined by widely
divergent interests, corrupted by bour-
geois capitalistic values and all but ob-
livious to the central issue: “U.S. Out of
El Salvador.” Mann’s reaction was one
of disillusionment and cynicism. He is
entitled to his opinion, but, lest it seem
accurately representative of the day I
would like to point out a few things.

It is true that the array of different
speakers at the podium bombarded us
with the angry: rhetoric of every isstie

profits off. idealistic protesters. while
various groups papered the crowd with
causes. And after a thre¢-mile march to

the White House, it was more, of ‘the a

‘same. From this perspective a seauive
reaction was inevitable. 3

But this impression of the protest neg-
lects 1 a ‘crucial element of appraisal: the

23,000 people who came that day. to

protest U.S. military aid to El Salvador.
It was this overwhelming presence and
purpose that we shared with the public
on our march through the streets of Wa-

shington, not, fortunately, the menager-

i¢ of speeches.

It is true that there were not as many
ppies as in the sixties. Instead there
church groups, medical and divin-

ity students, community and campus
coalitions (like ourselves) and plain old
middle. Americans..from Mainé to the
Midwest.’ This ‘crowd, consisting’ of
greater socio-economic variety, seemed
to represent the feelings of a very broad
base of American society.

ofthe 100 pr

To experience the romance of soine
ideal sixties protest (hippies, tear gas,
etc.) was not the point of my going, nor
that of many others, although I too felt
the souring of “idealistic yearnings.”
Ultimately, my contribution to and
sharing of active, public concern with
23,000. Americans over U.S. military

‘policy made the experience both posi-

tive and powerful, not to be obscured by
frustrated expectations or illusions of
“how it used to be.”

John Krotchko *83

A Reply
To Jeff Holland

from. abortion to Zimbabwe in cold; °

windy Malcolm X Park for four-long _
hours. Button vendors did reap’ ‘rich

Tothe Editor;

As the chairmen of ‘the SGA Wee-
Kend,* we felt the’‘need to set you
straight, as well as any others who share
the same misconception with you, about
id postponement (made ir™mutual

ment with the President of F&M

ee the social chairman of Fiji) of Hat-
_tie’s Night. Our major reason for the _
‘postponement was the fact that about 90 _
tives who visited were -

‘under age.-Not knowing how familiar
you are with the state law, we would

_liketo remind you that it is illegal for an-

‘yone under the age of 18 to consume al-

cohol, beer included. Although we

knew these students were re sponsible
people, we felt it was irresponsible on

“the part of the college to schedule a par-

ty. in which they could not participate.
The purpose of the weekend was to ena-
ble the students to make a more in-

formed and educated college’ choice;
therefore, we had planned a balanced
program of academics and social activi-'
ties in which they could participate.

Need we remind you that college is held
_ aucicrs for it its A xis in si-

tuations such as this? We wished not to
stifle the fun of Hattie’s Night, but to re-
main within the law and create fun for
the prospectives and Davidson students
alike. The image that we have to de-
stroy, as you so eloquently put it, is the
one that you yourself have of Davidson.

Ester Kim

Warren Overbey

(Chairmen of the 1982 SGA Prospective
Students Weekend)

To The Editor: _

Welcome back to the best part of win-
ter term from sunny Kenya! All of-us
here want to thank those of you who
took the time to make cards for us at the
Union Christmas Party, and especially
the “Y” for thinking of us and sending
them. Holidays away from family are
always a bit hard, but y’all made ours so
much better. Thanks from,

Grace Morgan
Sally Summey
A.T. Miller
Vince Parker
Bill Wilson
Chris Moore
Shelly Ballantine
Chris Elwood

bring out what is interesting and diverse
in us. If the: eating houses are “ineffi-
cient” or “inconvenient” it is because
they are human-created and operated by
you and your friends. If this intangible
quality that eating houses have seems
like make-beliéve to you, consider that
it is all that makes college life tolerable
for a lot of people, The eating houses
foster involvement and help to. round
out what is often a one dimensional Da-
vidson lifestyle.

To believe that a student body that -
eats in a big open cafeteria is more inde-
pendent is not.to think clearly. through
the situation: In.an eating house, as one
person in 65, you can effect the, way
your house is run. And as 65 united peo-
ple,.yqu can have an effect on this cam-
pus. This is independence that can make
a difference. This is strength that can
only diffuse and wither away among the
well lit, vast expanse of Vail Commons.

You at the Commons who proclaim
loudly your independence should con-
sider the dependence you have'on the
college for nearly your every bodily
function and the loss of individuality
that may go along with that. You lead us
toward a more homogenous voiceless,
powerless, student body which is truly
hard to imagine.

—Frazier Worth ‘82

To the Editor:

T have observed among some who

-have. chosen to eat in the Commons a
‘feeling of independence arising from

their non-participation in Patterson
Court. I believe this pride is misplaced
because choosing the Commons over an
eating house increases your dependence
on the College and decreases the
strength of your voice on this campus.
Apparently those elite who make the
decisions about our College’s future be-
lieve that-a better Davidson is a David-
son where students eat, sleep, and do
their laundry, etc."in massive and very
expensive college facilities. I believe

that a student who has this kind of de-

pendency on the college will have less
confidence im his ability to do things for.

himself. This dependency also in- ..
creases the:.already: high pressure for
~ conformity on this small areas to in-
tolerable levels.

Off campus housing =e the eatring
houses offer:for some.of usa chance "
quit playing student for a few

“day” and try to be humans. They offer

chances for privacy and responsibility
that are rare for Davidson students. Off-
campus housing and the eating houses

from our readers. We try to'print all fet-
ters that are of general interest, but.we
adhere to these four guidelines:

 {l] We require that letters be in our
hands by Tuesday 7 pm. _
(2) ws require that letters be neatly

Bl We require that letters be signed
and include the'author’s phone umber:
nd address. If you have a compelling
ason for us to withhold your name, ex-
plain your situation to the editor, Ste-

[4] We reserve the right not to print
- te pe | (a) function as advertise-

) contain innuendo, off-color
lurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent a vie-
int very similar to. that expressed in
ny: letters printed on the same topic.

The Doughboys and the Slimshafts

- decided to take their Easter Break early

this week and not grace us with their wit

-DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982
