El Salvador-Deja

“March on Washington!” the signs said. “Protest
American Foreign Intervention !” Deja vu. Today mi-
nus fifteen years, but with a difference. This time the
signs say, “U.S. out of El Salvador.”

At last, a chance to feel-some of the romanticism of
the sixties: The images of the idealistic activism of the
sixties always held a romantic ‘fascination for me.
Though repulsed by the extremist.violence, I’ve long
admired those people who were genuinely committed
to their cause, the anti-war movement. I used to listen
reverently as high school teachers or other impossible
old people talked about how they. protested the war. I
thought it must be terribly exciting to have such pur-

~ But Iam of the generation after, the last whimpers

of the baby boom. All Lknow about the anti-war move-
ment is what I read, liberaly peppered with ten years of
hindsight. lived in the Washington suburbs during the
height of the protests, but have only vague memories of
them,; filtered through my elementary school view-
point, ‘But I have images of the peace movement. My
mind’sieye clearly:remembers pictures of a hippie put-
ting @-daisy in astern soldier's gun barrel, a chaotic
crush of protesters ringed by orderly blue helmets, and
"impassioned speeches ringing * out ‘over attentive

crowds. The increasing concensus that the protesters
were tight only increases my fascination.

Since entering college, I’ve felt somewhat guilty
for not'showing that kind, or really any kind of com-
mitment to this type of ideal. It’s not easy to be a lone
activist. John Lennon didn’t mean for “Give Peace a
Chance” to be a solo. I’ve felt especially cut off recent-
ly, since it’ 4 Deccnng aimed fashionable to be selfish.

Vu

In a time of twenties’ boosterism, I’ve been yearning
for sixties activism.

I read the posters and went to Washington to try and
feel the sense of urgency I identify with those times.

Unfortunately, the show, I saw didn’t satisfy my
idealistic yearnings. The whole affair was tinged with
the same sense of cynicism I had hoped to flee. I didn’t
find that overriding sense that what we were doing mat-
tered-that we really could make a difference. The
whole tone of the event was more like that of a hope-
lessly lopsided football game, or a country fair than an
impassioned protest. Insistent representatives of every
type of bizarre splinter group shoved their literature at
passersby. I ended up with a pocketful of pamphlets
from the Haitian Refugee Project, the Marxist-Leninist
Party, the Union of Anti-Imperialist Students, and an
anti-Khomeini group of Iranians in exile. It became

hard toremember just what this rally was about. Button -

and teeshirt sellers worked the crowd extensively. The

irony of an aging hippie selling “Smash Capitalism” -

buttons at a healthy markup was not lost on the crowd.

The sense of unanimity I hoped to find was also
missing. The group that organized the rally was a coali-
tion of 16 disparate groups which each had to have their
turn at the mike. The American Indian Movement, the
Mobilization for Survival, the National Committee
against Registration and the Draft, Women’s Pentagon
Action and several others all had a hand in it and had

their say: While I may think that native americans are .

abused, that was not what I had come for.
I also just plain disagreed with many of the speak-
ers and groups there. Though not lacking for extremists

and kooks, the crowd was generally a good bit more

moderate htan most of the speakers. While they sup-
ported the leftist revolutionaries, I wanted peace. Du-
ma Ndlovu, a South African student, tried to get the
crowd chanting “Revolution,” but quite a few of us re-
sponded “Peace!” He was not amused.

I almost wistfully hoped for a clash with the police
to make my experience as a weekend radical hi
But this too was also missing. Tear gas and trincheons:
are part of my legacy of leftover images from the early
seventies. But the only violence that day came from the
radical pro-Soviet Spartacist League. They. were ex-
cluded from the May 27 Coalition that organized the
event but came anyway. After a small fracas between
some of their members and other protesters, the league
was cordoned off by D.C. police. The police were
quite restrained, and acted admirably. No indignant
cries of “pig” here. Most protestors seemed apprecia-
tive that they were there to control the violent Sparta-
cists. Apparently the police have learned how to handle
protesters with practice. -

I’m still glad I went. The 23,000 other people and I
may not have accomplished much as far as ending US
military incursions in-Central America, but now I can
feel-as if I’ve done something: Much of the extreme
rhetoric didn’t appeal to me, but I didn’t change my
mind as a result of the protest. The problem is, I doubt
anybody else did either: .

Jeff Mann ‘84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982

Continued from page 23

country-right-or-wrong” attitude. Besides, who can
fault the leftists for being anti-American when we are
arming their enemy or when faced with our duplicity in
foreign policy in the Middle East. The use of our rela-
tionship with Israel as a precedent on which to base for-
eign policy in Latin America is far from convincing.
El Salvador is indeed an international tragedy.
However, any American involvement in El Salvador
will be anything but a stabilizing influence. In the mo-
vie to which we. referred earlier, one of the scenes
showed. a. man using the blood of a fallen comrade to
write “Revolucién o muerte” (Revolution or death) on
a wall. As long as we continue to support the Duarte re-
gime with shipments of arms, the status quo will be

~- continued, with nothing gained and nothing lost — ex-

cept | lives.

Bob Finch ’84 and Joe Jaworski ’84

