Volume LXXH, Number 17

Bs

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Defeat of the

Faculty Tenure

Committee A News Analysis

The faculty last week roundly defeat-
ed the proposal for a Faculty Advisory
Committee on Reappointment and Te-
nure. The vote of 37 for to 46 opposed
was far wide of the 2/3 ‘majority re-
quired to pass.

The proposed committee would have
made'a recommendation to the adminis-
tration each time a faculty member was
up for-contract renewal or tenure. Its
recommendation would have been in-
cluded in: the: Academic Vice Presi-
dent’s' report to. the. President, and, in
the case of tenure decisions, in the Pres:
ident’s report ot thé Trustees.

Resistancé at Davidson to such acom-
mittee is long-standing ..A similar prop-
osal: was defeated three years ago. But
this. resistance is unusual in - national
terms: Accotding to Academic Vice
President T.C. Price Zimmermann,
such committees exist at most colleges
like Davidson.

. Why is such a comimittee as proposed
unacceptable to the Davidson Faculty?
There is‘no One reason, according to En-

glish-Professor Tony: Abbott. The prop- .

osal “got squeezesd to death by a variety
of different: forces. ”- Hansford Epes,

Chairman<of.the Professional Affairs

Committee (PAC), which drew up the
proposal, said the reasons for its defeat
were. often “mutually contradictory.”
Some faculty members, for example,
felt that the committee was. unneces-
sary, while others felt it would not be

strong. enough.
The one point of universal agreement
was that making decisions about reap-

pointment and tenure is not pleasurable. °

A faculty committee would spread the

Ss

unpleasant responsibility around some-
waht. “The President and I would have
the comfort of sharers in the opprobium,
” Academic Vice President T.C. Price
Zimmermann said.

Older faculty members had “nothing

‘to gain” from the proposal, Epes point-

ed out, but “the burden of serving on the
committees.”

“If the younger faculty don’t want it
enough to vote for it, it is not our re-
sponsibsility to push this thing further.”

The disagreement seemed to boil
down to the benefits atid Costs of having |
such a committee.

Some felt the benefits of a stronger
mechanism for faculty voice in reap-
pointment and tenure decisions out-
weighed any possible costs,

Faculty voice in appointment and te-
nure decisions was important, Abbott
said, both because of the need for “par-
ticipatory. democracy” and because a
fairer judgement could be reached with
faculty involvement.

Curently. the Academic Vice Presid-
sent and the President make tenure/
reappointment decisions on the basis of
a candidate’s file, a recommendation
from the candidate’s department chair-
man, letters of recommendation from
other faculty members, and ICES stu-
dent evaluation forms.

The “give and take” of a committee
discussion could make interpretation of
documents like the letters of recommen-
dation and the ICES forms more “objec-
tive,” Abbott said.

French Professor George Poe agreed.
He said he would prefer to be evaluated
by the “broader base” afforded by a fac-

Continued on page 7

road trip to Atlanta,Ga.)

We apologize for the absence of last week's issue. Our
Mergenthaler CRTronic Linotype machine broke down and took a.

"ism.

Jerome "e Hay, C.K. Nichols and Susan Ribeits at the El
Salvador Protest. See story inside.

- sal

El Safvador ae

in D.C.

Although members of the March 27
Coalition agrees orrtheir dissatisfaction
with President’ Reagan’s El Salvador
policy, they represented a variety of
conflictig interest groups.

According to official Coalition han-
douts thé Committee In Solidarity with
the People of El Salvador (CISPES), the
National Black United Front, the Amer-
ican Indian Movement, Clergy and Lai-
ty Concerned, People’s Anit-war Mo-
bilization, Committee Against Regis-
tration and the Draft, Women’s Pentag-
on Action, Progressive Student Net-

work, Mobilization for Survival, and

Black Veterans for Social Justice spon-
sored the protest. But many more fac-
tions showed up.

The handouts not only asked ppeo-
ple to “stop the US war in El Salvador”

but also to “unite against the Reagan

policy of oppression at home .... Fund
Jobs and Human Needs” and to say “No
to the Draft! No to racism! No to Sex-

Davidson Coalition co-organizer
Elizabeth Kiss admitted that “the
numbers were impressive” but felt that
in the protest itself, “there was not sense
of unity.” She also said that the demon-
stration was “not well organized” and
there were “problems with the speak-

”

ers.

During the preliminary rally at Mal-
colm X Park Speakers representing dif-
ferent interest groups fought for a place
at the podium while the crowd’s enthu-
siasm dissipated in the color weather.

According to Davidson art professor
Herb Jackson, who attended thew pro-
test the March 27 Coalition scheduled
speakers like “Cecilie B, Demille man-
aging a rally.” He also added that “the
rally was like a big PTL Club meeting
with the wrong speakers” and that the
Button and tee-shirt vendors “we like h
awkers at a state fair. A blight.”

-One of the most’ frustrating mo-

‘Continued :on page 30

