Kentucky Fried Movie,

Bruce Lee,

Ever feel that the absurd is just around the corner?
That life is a ridiculous farce? Well, this weekend at the
movies you get a chance to laugh at yourself and the
real work (7) Of media sex, violence, and materialism
in Kentucky Fried Movie (Friday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at
10:30 p.m.) This silly satire is a perverted extension of
a Saturday Night Live-type production reminiscent of
The Groove Tube: no theme, no plot, no real character
development. It consists of one long stream of sketches
all written by Jim Abrahams and David and Jerry
Zucker that are.designed to make people laugh.

Abrahams and the Zucker brothers (whose best-
known production is Airplane) satarize American
Television, movies, and all of the fads of the day. The
program’s commercials, which are the funniest
sketches in the movie, utilize the talents of actor/come-
dians such as Henry Gibson and make darkly humored

plugs for the United Appeal for the.Dead. The rest of:

the “cast of clowns” also do an expert job at whittling
the audience down to rip-roaring knee slapping sub-
mission.

The film uses the shock of the unexpected to a great
extent, but portions often deviate from this mode and
become. merely “punny.” There are also sketches in
which the humor miserably fails anda the racism and
sexism the movie intends to satirize becomes slimy and
disgusting.

If one part of Kentucky F ried Movie can be said to
succeed it is the film’s lengthiest skit entitled “A Fistful

of Yen.” This is an excellent take-off on the Kung-Fu |

fad running rampant at the time of the film’s concep-

tion. In this sketch, Mr. Loo, a Samsonite-toting black _

belt, takes on the evil Mr. Klan and his hundreds of
martial arts guardsmen in an ‘attempt to stop his black
market drug traffic and destroy his plan to blow up the
world,

What makes’ this sketch all the more hilarious is the
fact that the Kung Fu movie Enter the Dragon, starring

the Kung Fu master himself, Bruce Lee, is scheduled’
to appear in Love:the same evening (Fri..at 10:30 pm; »
Sat. at 8 pm). One really must see them back to-back to...

get the full impact. Loo is a direct take-off on Flee as

he appears in this particular film: In Enter the Dragon,
he too is figting against an eaviledder (Han) who
supplying the rege cg with: rigs nd runni
market for white ‘

This film is, however 4 fetions uteint 0 aor ne a
rather weak plot afloat. Graceful'miartial arts moves are?" «
choreographed i in such a way that th wd become the ae io

_Vie's real story and keep Enter the’Dragon alive. -

In viewing both Kentucky Fried Movie and Enter the |

Dragon the best advice for viewing these two “fine”
films comes from Bruce Lee: licoutsiuls ‘t think,”

and Day of the Dolphin

Some might suggest the same for Fine Films’ Day of
the Dolphin(Wed., May ’5, 8 pm). Critic Pauline Kael
refers to the film as an aquatic version of Rin Tin Tin.
The story is quite basic and certainly along the lines of,
most trained animal tales. George C. Scott, a research.
scientist in the movie, teaches dolphins Alpha and Beta

to talk. Unfortunately, they are kidnapped by the bad -

guys and sent on a mission that will end with the death

' of the president of the United States.

The dolphins, affectionately known as Fa and Be,
actually outshine the other actors, and the movie’s di-
rection robs the humans of any impact they might have
had and they become mere objects. The adventure and
suspense of the movie depends on one’s ability to look
at the goings-on of the dolphins’ wet perspective.

If one needs further justification for seeing such.a

_ sentimental film, it can be.found in it’s Concern for’. ~

man’s proper..appropriation of scientific technology,
an interest the film pursues but never relly bringst to the
fore.

Day of the Dolphin doesn’t mean to make comment
on man’s irresponsibility as much as to visually caress
the goodness of nature and ‘pluck a few sentimental
heart strings.

Debbie Eisenbise ‘82

Bis ayees é ithe Casa Shh ( sal Sid we Q F -
AMOR aac) 0). ipa Paes agli yiveimeg echaticraer aa Eh Sl tata cy Beas oy my aN Eg Cae cd on!
Sieh inl oe Mik sutth aR Shek igh BRET LAN a eG tan te ‘4 BSS $A a5

18" -

Film Reviews with Debbie Eisenbise I

THIS MOVIE.
IS TOTALLY
OUT OF
CONTROL

Associate Producer LARRY KOSTROFF * Executive Producer|KIM JORGENSEN
Screenplay by JERRY ZUCKER. JAMES ABRAHAMS. DAVID ZUCKER
Produced by ROBERT K. WEISS + Directed by JOHN LANDIS
RELEASED BY UNITED FILM DISTRIBUTION COMPANY. INC

© 1977 KFM FILMS. INC [R} >
Films Incorporated .

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982
