—_

To. ie Editor:
Liberalism. at..the Davidsonian has
descended to a record low in the form of

previous editor John Siman7 letter to
_ theeditor of January :22. Jn responding

‘to letters of the ptevious week written
“by Stokes Peebles and myself, Mr. Si-

“man. displays the misguided mindset

“emphasized the value of balancing a.

by print
Right, the interest of the student body at .

“that: is. characteristic of your publica-
tion; ©
Initially: hotice that Mr. Siman inter-

prets and distorts my remarks, .not to
mention Stokes’ positive thought, in
order to arrive at a philosophical criti-
cism of what he, Mr. Siman, considers
to be arch-conservative educational pol-
icy. My remarks dealt solely with the
vent of the Davidsonian and not with the
function of a College or University... In

publicizing an opinion disagreement

one should cautiously proceed with the
written material to which he or she dis-
agrees at hand, guarding against over-

- generalization and distortion. Mr: . Si-

man obviously has never taken heed to
such advice, as is evident in comparing
my letter and his subsequent response.

I never stated or insinuated that “Col-
lege is not a place to challenge conven-
tional values but rather to absorb them,”
as Mr. Siman implies. My letter strictly

campus newspaper. in terms of the so-

cid-political spectrum to provide equal ‘

time: for those of different’ ideologial
persuasions: ‘Former editors and their

. baril-gicked | Successors do not have a

mandate-to direct the campus newspa-

-per or forum of campus opinion from a

personal ideological stance. You have a
responsibility to present material of per-
tinen¢e to;the entire student body. If a
cam
}ymaterial from the Left to

large ‘will be sustained; whereas a “fine

arts dpminated attack on the status quo” -

alienate a easels perenne of the

warded a socio-elucation-

$ newspaper balances its position’

tion of deviating difference of opinion
in addition to: “conventional. values.”
“Conventional values” should definite-
ly be challenged, butthey should also be
positively presented: :

I'sincerely hope that Mr..Siman’s in-
tellectual ego has been assuaged by
writing a satirical, stongue-in-check re-
sponse, because he. has notirefuted my
emphasis in the least. His letter does not

deal with my thought, but i would invite

any rational challenge:to. my: moderate,

- libertarian conservation position «which

should ‘hardly be ‘confused. with Eric
Christenson’s brand of libertarianism).

I respect Mr. Siman’s position of leftist

overtones and only: desire such respect
in.return. Mr. Siman, try concentrating
on my stated point of resorting to inter-
pretive, sensational satire.

Lastly, if the Davidsonian continues
in the intellectual tradition of Mr. Si-
man, the newspaper will not be worth

"the paper it’s printed on. Take heed,

Stewart, and please, no typos in my
copy.

Van Beck

To The Student Body:

‘What is the point of earning degrees,
having a series of letters following our
names and lafding a “good” job if in the

process our minds become dull, weary,
and stupid? Is it not important to ask

ourselves why we are educating or be-

_ing educated? The closing paragraph. of
_ the college’s Statement of Purpose as-
- serts that “In gratitude for what has been

accomplished, ‘but in humble recogni-
tion that it (Davidson College) has not

: fully measured up to its own ideals eith- -
erin learning or life, its trustees, its fac-

ulty, its students and its friends must

‘constantly rededicate themselves to
. their task.” Is, as this’ statement pur-
‘ports, the college in a constant state of

reexamination of and rededication t6 the
educational. process? The function of
education is not merely to aid-man in his

“conforming to the pattern of social

order. Intelligence is the capacity to

2 think freely. Constant inquiry and con-’

stant observation, that is the soul of

learnifig. But!do the majority of class-

room: situations foster or demand. free

thinking? Are constant inquiry and con-_

stant observation-hallmarks of ‘the Da-
vidson student? Is the knowledge ac-
quired in the classroom ¢artied beyond

~ that environment: If so, then. why are
- carefully: collected notebooks of class

notes found in the trash at the end of
each term? Is that all Davidson courses
are, notes compiled in a hundred page

wirebound notebook, trashed following .

the final exam? The value of a liberal
arts education should be the integration

_of discipline learned in the classroom

with experience outside the environ-
ment. Education is an unending process
of reevaluation. I would like to see
greater evidence of rededication to and
reevaluation of the education process on
the part of Davidson students, faculty,
and administratioin and I would like to
think that I am not alone in this desire.

by Sally Sharp
Senior Art History Major

To the Editor
~Thave eaten at the Commons proba-

bly a dozen times and have enjoyed it.
The food is fine-and there is a selection,
the building is beautiful, and the atmos-
phere is pleasant. I even sat near Thur-
ston Hatcher’s table (a really nice guy)

and endured the “jerk test”—he didn’t

move away!

. Yet every large university in this na-
tion boasts of fine food (with a selec-
tion) in a beautiful building with pleas-
ant atmosphere. Our college, re-
member, boasts of overcoming all char-
acteristics of mass education, especially
with its “small-group social system pro-
vided by the...houses on Patterson

Court.” (1981-82 catalogue, p. 23)

I cannot begin to describe “what my

house means to me.” It’s something im-
possible ‘to put into words, unlike the

Common’s “expanse, varied menus,
and plenty of empty tables” (something
every eating house tries to avoid).

To the Class of ’85: It is in your pow-
er to make or. break Patterson Court. I
could beg you not to put us out of busi-
ness. Instead, I beg you not to make a

‘mistake you will regret. Only by joining
Patterson Court will you experience the

Best it has to offer. .

Signed,

_ Lindsay L. Biddle 83.

_. |DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 January 1982

To the Editor: .
Last Friday I read'a very interesting
letter by John ‘Krotchko in‘ The David-
sonian concérnimg’ the tée “Situation on
sidewalks and ‘steps’ afoiind campus. I
agreed with him wholeheartedly. By
8:15 Saturday morning I was forced to
agree with him “‘wholebodiedly” as well
as I picked myself up from the bottom of
a set of icy steps, having sustained a
broken left elbow as a resultiof'physical
plant: neglect!\Just. as ‘Johii''Krotchko
loves danger'to keep. his mind alert and
occupied, my mind was occupied with ©
my upcoming rifle match and'hét neces-
Sarily alert to the danger: of }the ice-
covered steps—which didn’t ‘look ice-.
covered in any event. ’
Perhaps jt is not the first priority of
the College to de-ice every campus foot-
path immediately, but if the physical
plant can completely remove a fallen
tree within 24 hours, it would seem only

reasonable that the paths could be

cleared within a week. They weren’t.
Luckily for my parents, the College

has accident insurance on all its stu-

dents, but it would have cost a lot less to

- de-ice the steps. Further, it would cost

far less to de-ice the steps than to have to
deal with a lawsuit over Daddy’s
$7,000-a-year investment.

But then again, maybe this is just a
plot to undermine so-called “minor”
sports. . .

| Elizabeth Brazell ’83

: A

To the Davidson Community:
Dear me! It seems as though my letter
of last week was grossly misunderstood

“by quite a few people. Please let’ me

clarify my statements a little.

I, inno way, meant to cut down the
Classics department. Drs. French, Da-
vies and Labban have gone out of their
way to accommodate upper level stu-
dents as best they can. What I was ob-
jecting to was the demands on their time
by the administration to teach lowel lev-
el courses (plus Humanities) which does
limit the time they can spare. This hap-
pens in other areas too, though, as I
mentioned. And if I seemed arrogant
about my intelligence, well, please for-
give me: For, I have been on both sides
of the academic fence, i.e. having much
background in an area or having none at
all. In both cases the situation was not as
rewarding as it could have been, had the
professors had time to specialize and

~ work with the individual students.

Again, I apologize if I ruffled too ©
many feathers with my letter. I meant
Not to teat down anything or anyone but
to put to you the questions, “Is David-
son education all it really could be?”

F.. Forio "82 -

