On! What a Day

' One of the sine ironies of this cam-
pus resides in Irwin 103: There the pair
of ‘Allen “Beaver”. Griffin, the second:
heading hitter in Davidson history, ‘and
Rusty, Colechia, one of the premier
pitchers to ever take the mound for the
Wildcats, room together.

Although Rusty and Beaver never
faced each other under game. condi-
tions, they know each other intimately
as dueling partners in the focal point of
baseball — the pitcher-batter confronta-
tion: Rusty matches wits with hundreds.
of “hitters, Beaver with dozens’ of
pitchers. 1 had‘'a chance to talk with
Beaver on the subject of this confronta-
tion, and he shed'light‘onto some of the
intricacies of the game. :

Seeing as the pitcher starts it all off,
we'll consider his firstmove. According
to Beaver, “As:a pitcher you try:to start
the’hitter off with a strike, usually low
and away or in on the hands so he can’t
hurt you with the long ball.”

As it turns out, hitters who go after the
first pitch-hit about ‘160 for that pitch.
‘Coach Greer helped Beaver correct that
problem. “After about the first ten
games I stopped swinging at the first
pitch,” says Beaver. “Most pitchers are
trying to pitch outside and low — trying

From the Dugout

to get you to swing at their strike. As a
hitter, you want to swing at a strike, but

‘you want to swing at your strike. The
-only first pitch you should swing at is for

extra bases.

The “L” in pitching

“Pitchers,” Beaver reveals, “are gener- ~

ally taught to pitch in an ‘L’, inside high
and inside low’ and:low and outside. A
mistake'is when he gets out of that L. A
mistake is usually. out and over the

‘plate.

“As a hitter,” he continues ,“you look
for a mistake: I’m looking for a specific
area for the ball to be in. Each time up’
you get at least one mistake — in col-
lege. anyway. When you get that mis-
take you gotta take advantage of it and
hit the long ball.”

Such mistakes are usually the result of

“some slight deviation in the pitcher’s

delivery. An example is the infamous

“hanging curve.” Says Beaver, “When. .

the pitcher gets tired his elbow drops the
ball tends to stay-high. Also when the
pitcher gets tired his hand drags, which
makes the ball stay up.” Hanging curve

balls often wind up over the outfield -

fence.
net mistake of : sorts is the walk.

ports

When a pitcher is behind he’s gotta go
with his best pitch, but even that some-
times doesn’t make it. According to
Beaver, ab out three of every four
walks in college ball wind up scoring.
So a pitcher in a three ball situation
wants to come with his best stuff.

Situation specifics
“Phere are all kinds of different situa-
tions which warrant different pitches.

The positions of baserunners, the ball/ -

strike count, the number of outs, the

batter, the defense, how well the pitcher —

is pitching, etc. etc. We’ll look at afew
just to get some idea of what’s going be-
tween the pitcher and-batter.

... When the batter is ahead (0-0, 2-1, 3-

I, etc.), he looks forhis pitch. Buta full
count brings a completely different si-
tuation. “On 3-2 you’re trying to protect
the plate,” Beaver-says, “You look for
the fastball and adjust for the curve ball.
If you look for the curve, you can’t ad-
just for the fastball.”

Just what the hitter gets depends on all
sorts of variables. With a man on second
he might waste a junk pitch (curve ball)

on.the chance of.a strike out. The walk —
set up.a double play possibility.

Ina tight count, says Beaver, “Rusty
will pitch you away. He wants you to hit
to the opposite field. A batter can’t hurt
you by hitting the long ball to the oppo-
site field.”

If Rusty is ahead of the batter and
pitching well, he’ll go to the slider, his
best pitch. To a power hitter he’s likely
to mix in a few changeups. “A big hit-
ter’s gonna be a little more aggresive.

He’ll either top the ball or hit under it,”
Beaver figures, .

How does Beaver, as a hitter, want to
react to a changeup? “You want to keep
your hands back and hit to the opposite
field. You gotta keep your hands back,
though”

A curve? I’m looking to hit a curve
ball to right field [opposite]. The only
curve ball you want to pull is a hanging
curve ball. A curve ball is breaking
away from you, so you might as well hit
away from you. Usually you don’t hit it
well because you becomes overaggres-
sive and you jerk it.” “Junk” pitchers are
therefore the hardest pitchers to hit be-
cause they: keep the batter off balance.

How, then, is the batter to tell: what
pitch is coming?..If, he can see the
pitcher’s hand, Beaver: says he can
make. a pretty good guess..“If you can
see the. back of his hand its a curve ball.

. If you.can see half the ball; it’s a break-

ing pitch” (slider).

As you can see, it’s all a complicated
process to pitch and hit well. But what
separates the .400 hitter from .250?
“The .400 hitter consistently hits the
ball hard. Lots of balls that ‘have eyes’
are just because you hit ‘em hard.” _

And what separates a major leaguer
from a college player? “A college player
hits five or six out of ten pitches for line
drives. A pro hits nine of ten for line
drives.”

Beaver and Rusty may never see each
other again, but you can watch the same
fascinating duel with Joe e Garagiola and
the gang.
by Steve Soud -

Hussey to Travel

_ The Amateur Basketball Associa-

tion of the United States (ABAUS) re-
cently named Bobby Hussey among a
select group of coaches to travel abroad
in pre-Olympic competition. “
The ABAUS will . sponsor five
teams of the nation’s top amateurs, each
bound to different parts of the world.
The USA Naticnal Team, coached by
C. M. Newton (Vanderbilt) and Lee
Rise (South Florida) will travel to Eu-
rope.
’ Hussey will assist George Rauding

Mes GO Sy neeg ak ae

1

(Washington State) with the Southeast
Asia team. They will play games in Tai-
wan, Korea, and Hong Kong, and will
be gone from June 14-July 19,

“I think it’s an honor being select-

ed,” Hussey said. “It’s an opportunity to
represent your country in international

- competition.

-“I can see where it would have a

ture benefits for our program here,” he.

continued. It could get our present and
future players involved in international
competition, and I can see where it

With Olympic Squad

might help recruiting. Who knows, we
might come back with some seven Chi-
nese, There is also he possibility of get-
ting-involved in some. sort of foreign
tour.” .

Tryouts for the teams will be held in
Colorado Springs from May 20 to the
23rd. Coaches recommend. underclass
players, who are then screened by re-
gional committees before. they go on to
Colorado.

Steve Soud 84

eck Carey ew,

_ DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1962

NORT ON’S
BARBER SHOP

BAR3ER FOR MEN ANO
WOMEN

YOU NAME IT —
STVLE IT

WE'LL
