Editorial

It shall be the:duty of this committee to assist the
President and the Vice-President for Academic Affairs
in arriving at decisions regarding the renewal of con-
tracts of members of the Faculty and in making recom-
mendations to the Trustees regarding the granting of

- continuous tenure.
(from the proposed guidelines for The Committee on
Reappointment and Tenure)

Imagine having a teaching job where you are evalu-

ated not by students or colleagues but by an administra-

tor. Now imagine being an administrator responsible
for hiring and releasing faculty members-in twenty de-
partments whom you neither studied under or worked
with in the classroom. It’s not a very comfortable posi-
tion for anyone involved, adminisrator, professor, or
student. Sooner or later conflicts are bound to surface,
and they have.

Recent administrative evaluations of Mr. Dailey,
Mr. Koller, and Mr. Retzer were severely questioned
by both faculty and students. Most of the controversy
(and resulting bitterness) centered around the idea that
only one or two people, who had little contact with the
professors in question, were responsible for the evalua-

tion and release.of these professors. They were sup-

posedly evaluated according to criteria for the faculty
evaluations as stated in the Code of Faculaty Evalua-
tion Procedures (teaching, professional attainments,
and intellectual and moral values). However, since the
administration never specifically stated why a particu-
lar professor was hired or released, accusations flew.
Faculty and students placed sole blame on an adminis-
tration that, for confidentiality’s sake, could not re-
spond. Morale on all sides suffered from questionable
decisions made by only a few people who could not an-
swer for their actions or share in the blame.

The Professional Affairs Committee’s proposal to”

form a faculty committee called “The Advisory Com-
mitee on Reappointment and Tenure” is a step in the

‘DAVIDSONL

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Editor: Stewart Cauley

Executive Editor: Brian-Butler.

News Editors: Jeffrey Mann, Elizabeth Smiley
Sports Editor: Steve Soud

International Editors: James Gelley,Dan Turk

right direction to easing tensions and, one hopes, pro- -

viding a more accurate evaluation of a professor’s per-
formance and credentials. The committee will consist
of five tenured full professors whose duty will be “to
assist the President and the Vice President for Academ-
ic Affairs in arriving at decisions regarding the renewal
of contracts of members of the Faculty and in making
recommendations to the Trustees regarding the grant-
ing of continuous tenure.” These five professors will
discuss each case with the Vice President for Academic
Affairs and then “will vote either to recommend, to
recommend with reservations, or not to recommend
the-candidate for reappointment or tenure.” This rec-
ommendation will be included in the Vice President’ s
report to the President, who will make the final deci-

- Sion.

The proposal still contains some problems, namely
the Committee’s lacking actual power and having to
evaluate its own peers. But it should provide a more ac-
curate evaluation of professsors’ performances and al-

_ low a sharing of the responsibility of the hiring and re-

leasing of professors.

The proposal passed a first reading at this week’s
faculty meeting, but by only one vote over the two-
thirds majority required. There should, however, be no
question of the need for this committee. It is fairer and
mote accurate’ than our current evaluation policy:
There may be more Kollers, Daileys, and Retzets in
the future, so let’s hope that the Committee will be
formed to provide a fair evaluation of their perfor-
mance and ease faculty-administration conflicts.

Sait Cada

Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams

Calendar Editor: Susan Graves -

Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin

Layout: James Moore, Jeff Herrin: Lisa Boardman-
Jane Harper

one

Nees k Pap Says
a RH

OP Bigs Kate Sots BA SC OK Teete FAs tee
MARE. oy de, Om

DAVIDSONIAN / 1 Friday 5 February 1982

SRer vist

iyebin? ‘ \ VE GY iy PEE iVAG

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from our readers. We try to print all let-
‘| ters that are of general interest, but we

adhere to these four guidelines:

[1] We require that letters be in our
hands by Tuesday 7.pm.

[2] We require that letters be neatly
. [3] We require that letters be signed
and include the author’s phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, ex-
plain your situation to the editor, Ste-
wart Cauley.

[4] We reserve the right not to print
etters that (a) function as advertise-
ments; (b) contain innuendo, off-color,
slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent a vie-
int very similar to that expressed in
y letters printed on the same topic.
We also reserve the right to condense
very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in an)
way endorse the opinions expressed i
letters that we print.

Stewart Cauley, Editor

Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy. Stroud, Neil
Cooksey, Eric Long, Kelly Sundberg

Staff: Mark Sheffield, John Hartman, Lucy Everett,

Jeff, Holland, John Verdi, Anne Goodwin, John

Krotchko, John Lusk, Lisa Buckley, Ivy Goodman.
Graphics: Susan Myers

Advertising ene! Karis Herstein
' Old Hand: Killer

