Interview with Will Terry —

Dean of students discusses religion at Davidson

By PEGGY PIEROTTI ’86

Dean of Students Will Terry was in-
terviewed this week concerning the
place of religion at Davidson. This is a
transcript of that interview.

Davidsonian: How important do
you feel religion is at Davidson Col-
lege?

Dean Terry: I think it’s a part of the
whole fabric of the college. I think it’s
part history and part present reality.
How do you feel that the religious influ-
ence has changed throughout the histo-
ry of the College?

I think this is a really crucial sort of
juncture in which the College finds it-
self right now because there used to be
very tangible and obvious signs of the
church or Christian committment-
—chapel and vesper services and a
strong religious requirement for the fac-
ulty to teach here—all those things were
very obvious. Now I think the signs of
the Christian committment are much
more subtle. All these places [Presby-
terian-related colleges in both the
Southern and Northern churches] are
struggling to identify what makes them
a Christian college because the old sym-
bols have passed away. One of the prob-
lems too is that there are a group of col-
leges not like Davidson which have very
narrow and specific ways in which they
symbolize their Christian committment.
A lot of people look at us and say that we
don’t have very tangible symbols.
“Where is your Christian commit-
tment?”

How do you think Davidson’ s reli-
gious image is reflected?

One thing is that Davidson is very
much a caring place. I think it is partly
student-for-student, and I think part of it
is institutional caring as well. Dr. Albert
Outler, who is a Methodist theologian
from Southern Methodist, said that he
has taught at Duke, Yale, SMU, and
Emory, all of which have at least histor-
ically had pretty strong church connec-
tions. He said he had never seen a place
where the faculty was as concerned
about the welfare of students . . . So I
thnk that is one of the principal ways
that Davidson displays a religious im-
age.
I think also that a lot of college poli-
cy is informed—obviously the way we
elect our trustees; over half our trustees

are elected by the church. I think their
policies often, not always, but often are
reflections of that sense of church ties.
Those are two ways. Also the very fact
that we have a college chaplin is an ef-
fort to continue that kind of tie. To some
extent, though not as much as it used to,
the places where we draw our tudents
reflects this image.

Do you think Davidson is as reli-
giously strong now as it once was?

I think there has been some erosion.
I would say, for example, that while we
didn’t particularly always enjoy going
to vespers and chapel, but I think that
the student body ralized that it was a
very informative and inspirational type
of thing. The College was able to main-
tain that because students saw _ its
value—even though it wasn’t always
convenient. But when they no longer
saw the value then there was no longer
the support for it. Those kinds of tangi-
ble supports are no longer there, and I
think that’s one of the ways that the reli-
gious strength has eroded. I think it
would be nice [if it were still there], but
it’s not the kind of thing you can coerce.
Coercive religion is not a good type of
religion. One should read the Introduc-
tion to the Code of Responsibility and
the College’s Statement of Purpose.
That’s a good statement, and I think the
Collge doesn’t want to abandon that.

' I’m not sure that the religious ties
are as strong among the faculty at Da-
vidson.

Do you think that the relationship
with the Presbyterian Church, or the
church in general, strengthens David-
son Collge as a liberal arts college?

Dean of Students Will Terry

I don’t know that it strengthens it as
a liberal arts college, but I am not con-
scious that it weakens it. Yes, in fact, I
think it may strengthen it in that it adds
another dimension to it. I think that Hu-
manities, because of Davidson’s reli-
gious concerns, is structured in a way
that the humanities program would not
be structured at, say, Washington and
Lee or Amherst.

Do you feel that the ties with the
church limit Davidson in any way?

We are gradually getting a larged
pluralism among faculty and among stu-
dents. I think there was a time when it
might have limited us; I do not think it
limits us now.

Do you feel that these religious ties
are relevant or appropriate in light of
today’s society? -

Sure. Yes. Unless you concede that
pure secularism is the only valid way in
which a person can respond, I certainly
think so. I think, being who I am, that
human beings have a very spiritual need
and therefore I think that a college like
Davidson adds a dimension in the whole
educational scheme of the country
which is very important. I think it would
be pathetic if we were all Chapel Hills or
Washington and Lees. Christian higher
education has meant a great deal to the
whole moral and intellectual fabric of
the country.

How do the religious ties affect
things at the school such as the curricu-
lum and educational goals, and how do
you feel that they should affect these
things?

I don’t think they inhibit. There are
some very specific ways in which they

by Peggy Pierotti ‘86

affect us, like the two religion require-
ments. I do not think that the Board of
Trustees in any way inhibits the curricu-
lum of the College. I think the wa-
tershed of this was the Linden affair sev-
eral years ago, and I think now that we
are bringing in a more pluralistic faculty
that any hampering of our curriculum
oar teaching [would be unlikely] in the
last twenty years at Davidson the shril-
lest criticism by our constituents has not
been because we weren’t teaching reli-
gion, but because we weren’t teaching
the right kind of economics. We had a
quote communist on our faculty—its
politics and too much liberalism.

Do you think that the students here
reflect religious sentiment?

I think that there are a lot of students
here that do. I think the strength of DCF
is a perfect example of that.

Do you then think that these reli-
gious ties should be preserved?

Yes. I think they should be streng-
thened in very careful ways. I am not in-
terested in church control; I think that is
the antithesis of education, but I think
part of our religious ties are likely to
erode as many people who are here now
who have genuine concerns to see that
the religious ties are maintained retire
and eave. That’s why I think, while I am
not interested in hiring only Christian
faculty members, we jolly well better
continue to see that we get some people
who solidly believe in the purpose of
Davidson College. And my one criti-
cism is that we are not hiring enough
Davidson graduates who understand
what this place is-about. I really get a lit-
tle emotional about this, and I think we

jolly well better look for some faculty
members who have the kinds of dreams
for Davidson that maintains what Da-
vidson has historically been about.

Where do you feel the College is
headed in its ties with the Presbyterian
Church?

Because of the Union question, I
really do not know. I guess I would like
to see us continue to relate to smaller
church judicatories like the Presbyte-
ries—rather than like the Synod. I
would also like to see the church be

more serious about helping Davidson fi-
nancially than it is presently. I don’t
think the church has any right to say too
much to Davidson, and they don’t say a
lot. I think our financial support is pretty
weak.

‘

THE DAVIDSONIAWN/15 October'1982 2":

9
