Diane Odum? A

The United States Tax System Represents one of

the most unchallanged violations of individual rights: «| Y
and liberty in our country today. ‘Though, recently, PR

there’‘has been much concern over increased govern-
ment intervention and burdening tax laws, the battle to
eliminate this violation has yet to be fought in its most
fundamental and decisive area: the realm of. Philosey
phy.

The: tax system of the United States, as it has
evolved, rests upon the “welfare principle”, the idea
that the sacrifice of individual liberty is justified when
others benefit. Applied to the tax system, this principle
allows the government to force-an individual to sacri-

fice his personal wealth if it will result in the benefit of | -

other individuals. This principle is most clearly exem-
plified i in regard to taxation for “social goods” , i.e.,
goods and services which purport to benefit ‘society,
such as medicare, foreign aid, welfare, low-income
housing, unemployment compensation, public educa-
tion, and the like. In these cases, the government takes
money from the individual who can legally afford to
pay (regardless of whether he advocates these pro-
grams) and redistributes his income ‘as a “service to
mankind.”

The key factor in the redistribution of income is the
use of FORCE: the government's threat of fines, impri-
sonment, or the expropriation of property, if the indi-
vidual refuses to comply with the government's re-
quest of mandatory “gifts”. The government, acting in
this manner, differs not from the robber-thug who uses
force--the point of a gun--to steal from unwilling vic-.
tims in order that he may pursue his material values.
The government, likewise, uses force to steal from un-
willing citizens in order that it may institute its moral
values (welfare, medicare, etc.). In truth, the thug is
more open and honest in his robbery; the government
disguises its “guns” by saying that its actions are “for
the good of society” and then takes advantage of its le-
gal monopoly of force to indirectly steal from its citi-
zens, .

During a discussion of the legitimacy of the tax sys-
tem, the ethically-based question always arises: “With-
out: taxes, how will society support the poor and the

?” This question assumes the altruist-col-
lectivist premise that all men are “their brothers’ keep-
ers”’.In order to get beyond this premise, one must
raise a more fundamental question, specifically, not_
“how will society support the poor?” Is it the duty of
SOCIETY AS A WHOLE to care for the needy?

“Society”, i in this context, is seen as some concrete
entity-an entity with special rights and moral privileges
of its own. In reality, “society” is nothing more than:a

collection of individuals, each individual possessing
ividual rights. By speculating on what “society”

ule 'd0 for the poor, one is assuming that society is
an inseparable unit with certain rights and moral obli-
: that surpass those of the individual. Any group,

a society included, “can have no rights other than the -

rights of its individual members. A man can neither’ ac-
cquire new rights by joining a group nor lose the rights.
he alr ”” Because an individual has no
| Hage ese pete saciicots inva igh
for other
india 8 dlevides

“becaysh sachs eel andes

The necessity of rights is is not aheiey: “Rights” area
moral concept that are essential if man chooses to live
with others in an organized society. A Jone man on a
deserted island would have no need for rights; the issue
wouldn’t come up. Likewise, a group of barbarians
that chose to live as a savage mob instead of in an or-
ganized social system would have no necessity’ for
rights; in this situation, might would make right.

Just as’the necessity of rights is not arbitrary, neither
is the determination of individual rights arbitrary. Giv-
en that man has decided to live in an organized society ,

he must define his rights in conjunction with his nature- .

-with his inherent nature as man qua man. Because
man is a living, rational being, his first and fundamen-
tal right is the right to his own life. Logically succeed-
ing man’s right to life is man’s right to sustain and'pro-
mote his own life--an act which requires: first, free
thought and second, action upon these thoughts. Sus-
taining one’s life necessarily requires material goods;
no man-can live without food and shelter. Thus, man
must have property rights--the right to gain, keep, use,
and dispose of material values, in the act of sustaining
and promoting his own life.

The United States government; in legislating tax

laws, acts on the assumption that the use of force to col-

lect private wealth from individuals, is justified in the
pursuit of some “social goal”. This blatantly represents
the sacrifice of the individual for the “good of society”.

The question arises: “What if the individual does not ’

wish to donate his wealth to these.‘socially-enhancing’

programs?” The collective minds of the “welfare” sup- © ~ fue
porters eagerly chant the “vote with your feet” argu:

ment: “We, the majority, voted for i it if’ by don tlike
it, move to Canada.”
The absurdity inthis argument is remarkable, Thear-

guer is switching the concept of “rights” from the indi-: x ae

vidual to the collective; in essence, he replaces: the
“Rights of Man” with the “Rights of Mob”. Ina free so-

ciety, actions affecting the rights of individuals are out- :

side’ government jurisdiction, A majority may vote

where to’ place a courthouse or who should represent a i
a majority may not vote to violate indi-
vidual rights, i.e. to take another man’s property. “In-

dividual rights are not subject to public vote; a majority

community, but

BwAM Rhee
Tre rae ee)

T OUR TAXESSCUT.

has no right to vote away the rights of a minority; the

political function of rights is precisely to protect minor-
’ ities -from, Oppression by majorities (and the smallest
‘Minority:on.earth is.the individual).” (AynRand,-The
Virtue of Selfishness, New York, 1964, p. 102.)

“It cannot be denied that, out of context, these “social
goods” sound very desirable. Who wouldn’t consider it
desirable to see all the poor with food on their tables or
all the elderly with sufficient medical care? No one,
when these questions are considered out of context. Put
into their appropriate contexts, however, certain cru-
cial questions arise in terms of these “social” propos-
als: who will be labeled “needy”?--determined by
whom?--supported at whose expense? These are the

moral questions that the advocates of the “for-the-

good-of-society” programs fail to recognize. To them,
only the desire remains in sight; they fail to recognize
whose individual rights they are violating in instituting
these programs.

The question remains: “If it is not society’s duty to
support the poor and the handicapped, what will be
done for the needy? A free society does not outlaw
private charity. If an individual wishes to aid the poor,
let him do it directly, based on his own values and mor-
als, without the government as an intermediary.

The individual is the j primary source of society; with-
out individuals, there. would. be no society.’ Yet ironi-

cally, through mandatory taxation for “the benefit-of-
. Society” programs, the United States government ‘is .

squelching the individual and his rights in the name of
this very non-entity. This nation was founded precisely

_ for the purpose of protecting individual rights from go-

vernmental violation; today, however, this same repre- -
sentative government is crushing individual rights in
the name of morality. No amount of government tax
cuts will provide justice for the individual, and thus for
society, until individual rights are recognized philo-
sophically and politically. .

By Diane Odum ‘82

DAVIDSONIAN /'| : r

day 22 January 1982
