F and M‘s

Celebrated Cooks

0

Most Davidson -upperclasmen list
their Patterson Court Houses among the
most rewarding facets of college. life.
This year, F & M has determined to ex-
press their appreciation in a special
way--by establishing a retirement fund
for their celebrated cooks, Fannie Bran-

don and Mabel Torrence.: __.
Fannie and Mable are longtime Da-
‘vidson folks, and many students have

enjoyed getting to know these charming:

ladies as they. turn out some of the finest
meals on the Court. Fannie and Mable

have been providing meals for Davison

students for more than thirty yers, mark-
ing these two cooks among ‘the most

dedicated on campus, said F & M Secre-

‘tary Lisa Buckley.
In the years before the Patterson Court

Houses, Fannie and Mable cooked for-

the Kappa Sigma brothers at their house
on Thompson Street. They. followed

Kappa Sig to Patterson Court in, 1961. .

The fraternity folded in 1971 with the
advent of self-selection and the: house
became F & M.

Fannie and Mable have enjoyed David-
son and generously. share their impres-
sions on how the community and the

campus have changed over the. years.
“We just love the kids,” Fannie ex-

-plained., Mable will tell. you of the

growth of the town. Both smile quickly .

when reminiscing on changes in the stu-
dent body. “It’s the girls. That's the big

Freshmen

Febsties John Marks and: Todd ©

Wiebusch are organizing a new publica-
tion. Unlike the Davidsonian, Hobart

Park, and The Miscellany, they intend —

their magazine, named The Commu-
niqué, to employ only freshman writers
and to focus on freshman interests.

The Comminiqué will include. és-
says, reviews, poems, short stories, and
feature articles. Marks feels his maga-
zine could help to ‘unify the freshman

class, especially the’ slightly polarized -

-men-and women, and could serve as a
training ground for future writers. Ac-

cording to Marks, the magazine will
help freshman writers “who feel like

change,” Fannie says. “And it’s good to
see more blacks,” Mable adds. °

The fondness and respect students
have had for Fannie and Mable shows it-
self in many ways; each fall they have
visits from Kappa Sigma and F & M
alumni. Students working at F & M are
particularly close to Fannie and Mable,
and their affection for the cooks spreads
through the house.

The efforts for a retirement. fund for
Fannie Brandon and Mable Torrence

’ began two years‘ago. Lawrence Kim-

brough, Kappa Sigma Treasurer 1961-

- 62, and Tim Wilkins and Bryan Kelle-

her, Treasurers 1978-79 and:1980-81,
have worked with F & M’s present of-
ficers in contacting more than two

hundred alumni of the house asking for

donations. These efforts have raised

about $1 ,200 so far, which is being held

by the college until a specific invest-

. ment format has been determined.

. Davidson College. does not provide

any retirement: benefits for Court em- -

ployees. Consequently, some of the
campus’ most important workers may
have to count on Social Security benef-
its alone after they retire. The students
of F & M express their appreciation for
Fannie and Mable’s years of thoughtful-
ness and devotion by making their fu-

.. tures a little brighter,

Jeb Benedict ‘84

Last year there was a vast increase in
the amount of damage done to campus
property. Many major repairs were re-
quired to fix the dormitories.as well as
the other campus building, due to van-
dalism by Davidson students. In the
Dean’s Outbasket, published in Sep-
tember of this year, Dean of ‘Students

» Will Terry asserted his uncompromis-

ing position towards vandals at David-
son. Dean Terry warned “Any student
found quilty of maliciously damaging

college property or doing so under the ~
- influence. of alcohol or any other drug
| will be fined $50 plus damages the first

time it occurs.”

A student caught vandalizing a se-
cond time would definitely be sus-

-pended from school.

Unlike last year, vandalism this year
has not been much of a problem. There
have been no major acts of vandalism to
date-until last weekend. On Saturday,
January 9 the 900 Room featured Moon-

pie, a rowdy band and an apparent

crowd-pleaser. Sometime during or af-
ter the performance quite a bit of dam-

- age was done.to the Union. In the 900 —
Room two holes were gouged into. two.

separate walls. One of these holes was
rather large and required substantial re-
pair. In addition, the men’s bathroom
across from the 900 Room was ravaged,

most notably, the sink was ripped off of

the wall. Vandals also did some minor

damage to the stalls.

: Apparently the incidents in the 900

Room were related to alcohol abuse, an
issue about. which Dean Terry has ex-

pressed cOnCERR, ‘He reiterated that

DAMAGE.

drinking on campus is a privilege not a

right. So far no one has claimed respon-

sibility for the damages done in the 900

Room.

Director of Housing Bill Bolding, has
been satisfied with the conduct ‘of the
students in the residence halls this year.
“Tam extremely. pleased in the students
this year,” he-said, Mr. Bolding report-
ed that for the first time in a number of
years there has been no major damage
done to the residence halls. Recently,
however, some snow balls broke. a
number of windows. Bolding said that
most of the students responsible had
stepped forward to pay the $1.50 re-
placement of the windows.

Matt Merrell ’84

Organizing Commu niqué

tay haven't got pane talent or expe-
rience to write for other publications.”
Co-editor John Marks, who: wrote
for the Davidsonian earlier this Year,
‘feels their magazine will serve‘ special

purpose on Campus. “The Davidsonian
does not cater to freshman and is not.

supposed fo.” “We're. putting out a pa-

_ per that has greater appeal to. people
who don’ tknow what’ $ going on inthis .

sch

Over a dozen freshman have ‘shown,

interest in the magazine. Some current

‘staff members are Ross Holt, literary -
editor; Jack Cobb, humor editor; Lee —
Meceey: reviews - editor; and. Anne,

; pha: features editor. Anne is alse a

former member of | the. Davidsonian
staff...

“The . Davidian offered to let
Marks use Davidsonian equipment and
possibly put together his magazine as a
monthly. supplement to the newspaper,
but he declined. He is currently looking

for funds. The Activities Tax Fund of ..
the College Union: provides money for.

student publications, but Marks is not

sure if he'll ‘tely oni. He has considered
selling ads in The Comminiqué and sell-°
: ing the ‘Magazine. itself as a posible

_ Source. of'reyenue.. —

"Marks sated thinking about the : |

_ ferred the f

- Couneil: Since then, Marks has talked
informally. with. Danny Waddill, a
“member of the ATC. ‘Marks would like
* to have the first issue of The ‘Commu-
niqué 0 out by February.

In - De-

publication last November.

’ cember he saw Dean of Students Will

Terry, who referred him to the. SGA.
Marks & Wiebusch met with the SGA

last December and again on 12 January

1982. They. described ‘their magazine
and presented very tentative budget fig-

_ures, At the conclusion of the last meet-

ing, the SGA Executive Council re-
to the Activities Tax

a r is David Resnik °85

.. DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 22 January 1982
