to an audience.

Pra ni bile Hee tiga ton bb searate na es
ily as some-would like to think. There seems to:be a
kind of apology for the art and the artist that that ques-
tion comes.out of: Any person who is trying to be in
touch with living has got to have their own way of mak-
ing that same kind of search. Some people do it through
meditation, some people do it through music, every-
one ’s got their way. ress Eee haotat army
there’s a part‘of their lives which isn’t truly engag

*T really don’t like the concept that I make my
paintings to make other people think, that’s a little pre-

tentious.. I make my paintings to create something _

that’s never existed before and that wouldn’t exist un-
less I made it. If that gives you something, fine. I don’t
care What it gives you anymore than I care how you re-
late to another person. J see paintings just like people:
some you relate to the surface, some as decoration,

some as pleasant company; ‘and some as life-tong

mates. Paintings are the same way. ‘see paintings that
are quick hit paintings that I: thoroughly enjoy. I can
love them for the quick hit; that’s what they’re for, but
they’re not pictures 1 would choose for a soft of lasting
spiritual nourishment. I think in terms of time-release -
information they function differently. I'm particularily.
interested i time-release information. My pos se
sort of like e6ntac
Interested in fhis commént about art beitig: spiritu-.
ally nourishing I wondered, since most of us are taught
to associate: the spiritual with religion, if Herb’s au-

dience even considered his work in a spiritual context.

“I think the more religion became organized over

the centuries the less people relaized that there’ Saspir- -

itual ‘dimension in realms other than very organized.
ones. coy placlomeence ws ebal
on his existence was prol
] nunication with living and
word tea BERS ne ty soa
like. ideally fir somedihe. hen coming into a setting ©
where my work*is being presented to feel a kind of |
presence. A presence of what I don’t know, but at least
a presence that is not about teaching and is not about _
anything particularly didactic or defined. I suppose.a
- spiritual presence is what I’m_ really. talking about.
_ Rather than showing someone a greater vision I would
like my art to set up a context where one might get in
touch with his own particular greater vision.” -

Herb not only sets up this sort of context in his art;
he is also very much involved in creating a context for
students in his classes to get in touch with their own
creative visions. As. chairman. of the art department :
Herb has many responsibilities as a faculty member |
and administrator, I asked him if his career as an artist
interfered with his job as a professor. ;

“Painting is not any more important than teaching —
though I’d rather be seen as a painter who teaches than .
~ asa teacher who paints. I think my painting is as much -
of my, teaching as anything I say. The fact that 1 am
. painting effects me as a teacher. ‘Tf I got up in front of a

cl talked about painting without actually being |
involyed in it myself the ideas would be pretty academ-—
ic, like things I’d just sort of distilled as good theories
to throw out and see if they work. Tactually believeev- «
Bi ali gar chiles a ae
sole | 2s ne

“For. the:present, Herb ve tot dissed with his
position in. the-art-we WC :
painting comes back into critical focus in the next ten

eine iaiT ncaa <marrEene “3

na

while he feels his work is being shown more and more
in New York and other art centers.

“At my New York show people were relating to
my work in just the way I would want them to. Instead

of talking about how beautiful they were the viewers _

were talking about how meaningful the paintings were.
There’s sort of an ever-widening circle of people who
are interested and:I’m excited about an upcoming show
thatthe Mint Museum is doing on my drawings.”
This show being put together by the Mint Muse-
um in Charlotte will feature 36 drawings and will goon
tour as a travelling exhibition for three years after op-
ening in 1983. If you’d like to become familiar with
Herb’s work and don’t want to wait until the show op-
ens there are plenty of his pieces around the area to be
seen. Four prints based on the four elements hang in the
first floor lounge area of the Center for Special Studies,

_ David Lyons

&

just seconds away from your daily visit to the Post Of-
fice and more works are to be found around the David-
son community and in Charlotte. The Mint Museum
holds one of Herb’s Veil paintings in its permanent col-
lection and other works are always showing at the
Hodges/Taylor Gallery at 116 Latta Arcade in down-
town Charlotte. Any effort you make to see some of
Herb Jackson’s art -will be well rewarded. Each en-
counter I have had with his work yields some new

' value and perspective, not only on the work I’m see-
-ing, but on my relationship to art in general: If you’re

interested in art or simply curious to see real examples
of what you’ ve been reading about I would strongly en-
courage you to seek out Herb’s work.

- Todd Swofford ’82

‘Folk Corner

“fj everyday

ee bad

Anybody can play music. The first step is to take |

the instrument of your choice or your own voice and

learn to whack out a few notes. Then you're in the

game and the sky is the limit, From there you can

pursue whatever direction your mind and the sounds

cena nnt maine in its dwn

‘music. They are ant mom
“To

once ex: is Forever cherished.

| stadt aah we may. we have experienced _

rig i et ee ae :
during one of these profound ies dat is oie

We are, however, mortals. As musicians, what
tever our abilities and degree of involvment, we may
may not be producing art and may or may.not be enjoy:
able for others or even to ourselves. But even if we
not be sublime artists we can find great joy! Make mu
‘ic. Rejoice in simplicity and join the spiritual dance
_ Befriend -the transcendental.

Fol ese ancien rd ml !
_first step: art, get out your guitar, your fi
“dle, your clarinet, bassoon of and work |
this one — thé old staridard, Soldie? s Joy. Tei
ae |

