‘ Hockey Whips
Wake Forest 3-0

The Davidson Women’s Field Hockey team is
picking up right where it left off last season—on the
winning track.

The defense, as it was last year, is solid, cemented
down the middle by senior center halfback Amy Crit-
tenberger, sweeper Mebane Atwood, and goalie Cathy
Morell. The offense, aided by the return of Carol
Heppner, has much more spark than last year, as evi-
denced by the eight goals scored in the first two games.

The season opener 16 Septeniber was a 3-0 victory
over the Wake Forest Deacons. The Lady Cats domi-
nated the game from the start and held a 1-0 lead at
halftime on right-wing laura Hills’s goal. The David-
son offense kept the pressure on the Wake goal and
scored two more times in the second half. Amy Critten-
berger and freshman line player Suzie Klineman
scored the goals.

Coach Mayes said, “It was a good first game.

There were some first-game mistakes which we can
work on in practice. But overall, I was happy with the
way things went.”

Saturday morning, in a scrimmage game, the Cats
whipped the Charlotte Flickers, a club team, 5-1.
Again, as against the Deacs, Davidson controlled the
game. Goals were scored by Carol Heppner, Mavin
Martin, Amy Crittenberger, and Suzie Klineman. The
defense played well as a unit and the only goal came on
a breakaway by the Flickers speedy left wing.

Davidson hockey fans are in store for an exciting
season once again. The fun starts Saturday at 11:00
against Virginia Commonwealth. :

Kara Gilmore ’85

Davidson’s traditional first-of-the-year match with
Duke University has always served as a “character
builder” for the men’s cross-country team. Squads in
years past have never truly threatened the Blue Devils
and unfortunately this year’s outcome was never in
doubt, despite solid performances by the Davidson ath-
letes.

Led by junior Frank Ivey, the Davidson top seven all
bettered their pre-school time trial performances.
Speedster Ivey ran a strong 26:33 for the five-mile
course to place second in the race. Ivey, went out with
Duke’s front runners early and stayed with the top Blue

Cross Country

Splits With Duke

Devils throughout the race. The next Davidson harrier,
senior Jack Smith, headed up a cluster of Wildcat run-
ners, placing eleventh overall and staying thirty se-
conds ahead of junior Bryan Zielinski, whose perfor-
mance so far has been a pleasant and much-needed sur-
prise. Missouri’s favorite son Jim Trotter and newco-
mer Jackie Desai rounded out Davidson’s top five,
both dipping under thirty minutes. The general time
improvement on the home course is remarkable con-
sidering the oppressive heat on race morning.

The women’s team has in the past fared quite well
against Duke and this year was no different. Despite

Duke’s one-two finish, Davidson’s female runners
handily defeated their opponents as they took places
three through seven. Sarah Parson placed first for
Davidson with a 5000 meter (3.1 mile) time of 20:19.
Jean Webb, Marian Hill, Chris Seel, and Tamara Fore-
man were all within a minute of Patterson, and all im-
proved over their earlier time-trial efforts. This meet
provides a good indication of the strength of David-
son’s team and marks the beginning of a potentially
stellar season for the lady harriers.

by Garry Sullivan ’83

HAI!
=a
TYR

Shin

OF BUSINESS

THE FUQUA SCHOOL

BEGINNER OR ADVANCED - Cost is about the same as a semester ina
U.S. college: $3,189. Price includes jet round trip to Seville from New
York, room, board, and tuition complete. Government grants and loans
available for eligible students

Live with a Spanish family, attend classes four hours a day, four days a
week, four months. Earn 16 hrs. of credit (equivalent to 4 semesters-
taught in U.S. colleges over a two year time span). Your Spanish
studies will be enhanced by opportunities not available ir a U.S. clags-

room. Standardized tests show our students’ language skills superior
to students completing two year programs in U.S Advanced courses
also.

Hurry, it takes a lot of time to make all arrangements

SPRING SEMESTER — Feb. 1 - June 1/ FALL SEMESTER — Sept. 10-
Dec. 22 each year .

FULLY ACCREDITED - A program of Trinity Christian College

A representative of the Fuqua School of Busi-
ness of Duke University will be on campus
Monday, September 27, to discuss the MBA
program. Interested students may obtain fur-
ther information by contacting the Office for
Experiential Programs and Life/Work Planning.

SEMESTER IN SPAIN

For full information—write to:

2442 E. Collier S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506
(A Program of Trinity Christian College)

14 THE DAVIDSONIAN/September 24, 1982
