cateimmncieetcetitciter.|

On April 14, 1982, Davidson basketball took a big
step in turning its program around as the coaches got
commitments from their top:six recruits. Davidson is
“by no means around: the comer, ‘but this népruiting Class
: gives them a solid start. ang
» = Coach Hussey, in his youal reserved manner, cau-

youtig. players. * Sh BS San shi

“and they're going. iets ‘freshman mist

_ would be totally unfair to say this freshman class

- ing to get the Davidson progr: im going. Youcin’ feal-
ly: be absolutely:sure what's. gonna happen, with. these

. guys. Basically all. the factors we *ve come up. with

have been positive factors. \ _

.... The real key,” he continued, “ig that | the guys [re-

- turnees): will return. with the proper. attitude that, we’ re
gonna have to: work hard to play. well. It rests more on
their shoulders than the. fenges. rail

None of these recruits is atop. jooeandidate, but all

are very solid players. When they:come into the David-
son program, they will potentially become outstanding

. players. “We really do recruit for things beyond physi-
cal talent. Obviously we’ve got to recruit academics,
but we recruit attitude and court savvy, and whether the
guy will fit into.a team concept,”-Hussey says. “They
all have been recruited for intangible as well as tangible
reasons. They understand team concepts well. They
understand our program—that it’s the strength of the
team more than the strength of one or two players.”

‘The high school player, Hussey. points out, must.
make a huge‘transition in a very short time. Instead of

opening against Southside High, these players will op-
en against DePaul in-the Horizon. The difference, ac-
cording to Hussey, is “learning to play with other good
players and being a part of things.”

And now, the recruits..

Gerry Born
6-7, 210, Ringold. Ga., 18 ppg, 10 rpg.

Born chose Davidson over Georgia Tech, UT-C,
Mississippi, Mississippi State, and Creighton, and
Tennessee. He. shot 55% from the floor and made se-
cond team All-Georgia, first team All-North Georgia,
first team All-Chattanooga area, and he qualified for
Knoxville’s AAU team.

“Gerry can be a swing-forward or a power forward
either one, He’s a strong player, rebounds very well,
and knows how to use his is body inside ibtald well. For a

big man phe rt runs the court very well. He’ sa great team

player.”
Bor will probably take an Economics major.

Rafael Hernandez ;
6-6, 198, Hope Mill, NC, 22.3 ppg, 11.0 rpg.

As a sophomore Raf played: with Kenny Wilson,

and the two are very much the same style. “He plays all
out, like Kenny Wilson,” says Hussey. “If he plays as
hard.as Kenny, he’ll be a great college player.”

“With the physical ingredients that he can bring to

. our team, he can add to our team in terms of speed,

quickness, and leaping ability. He’s a quick leaper,”
Hussey comments. He’ll play wing.

Rafael made All-Conference, All-East (NC); and
honorable mention All-State teams. He will take an
Economics major as well.

Jim McConkey

Jim McConkey is the heir apparent to Jamie Hall’s
center position. But Hussey cautions, “I don’t anti-
cipate anyone coming in as a freshman to play quite
as well as Jamie piayed this year. Jamie didn’t have
to make those adjustments which any freshman is
going to have to make. Sometimes there’s no substi-
tute for experience.”

- McConkey is an excellent shooter with a soft
touch outside and muscle inside. Says Hussey,
“He’s a big strong guy, and he’s going to use his
body to get position and: make scoring easy. He’s
quicker than he appears.”

McConkey has outstanding credentials. He led
Collinsville to a 22-6 record, leading the Illinis Met-
ro Area in scoring and free throw shooting (82.6%)
in the process. He was first team All-Ilinois, two
time All-Southwestrn Conference, won MVP ho-
nors in two tournaments, and is a member of the Illi-
nois All-Star team. He played tight end on his high
school football team and was All-Conference and
two time outstanding lineman for the team.

Jim will probably take a pre-law major.

* Ken Niebuhr
6-7, 210, Wadworth, Ohio, 17 ppg, 17 rpg.
‘Niebuhr,’ who chose’ Davidson overt Akron. and
UNC-W, was first team All-Medina and second team
All-State. He shot 52% from the floor, 70% from the

* Be eee a 4 se ¥ a, * eS. 7 ‘fei P
GPRS RZ Cy es ae 5 EC Phe ee

June 16, New LSAT: Begin to. improve
your writing skills for the new essay.
section. a

June 23 GMAT: Register now for June -
. ,Seminars. Recéive our Math Refresher
text by return mail.

Call now: 800-243-4767

wm, War Soar eg gi dae ME if
Bcc 0 ep Aaa ah a RE BE eh aes

_DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982

‘line.

Niebuhr should shore up rebounding weaknes-
ses—he hauled in 28 caroms in one game. “He’s a
strong, inside player who blocks out well. He’s an ex-
tremely physical'type player even though he’s only 6-
7,” Hussey says. He’ll play forward and will probably
take pre-med: courses.

Ted Wolfe

6-8, 205, Arlington Heights, Il., 12 ppg, 7.5 rpg.

Wolfe is credential-laden as well. He was twice
named All-Mid Suburban, played for the Chicago sub-
urban team that defeated.a city all-star team, and made
the Illinois AAU team anda team slated to tour Europe.
He picked Davidson over Evansville, which qualified
for the NCAA tournament, mainly because of academ-
ics. ,
He really is a team player. He will provide. the
proper type chemistry to a team. He’s aggressive, re-
bounds, and can face the basket and shoot well,” Hus-
sey cites.

He led Arlington High to a 25-6 record, . .°

Hussey expects to announce the signing, of a sixth
player once the admissions process is complete, and
there is a good chance they'll recruit a guard. And keep
in mind Frank Johnson will be playing. .

The addition of these recruits will give Coach Hus-

-sey much greater depth and versatility, although he

will probably run the same triple post offense. “I be-
lieve in playing three or four big men at one time—al-
ways three, mostly four.” The triple post includes a
low post, high post, and baseline forward. According
to Hussey, “All these guys can play any one.of those
positions.”

Hussey adds, “I'd like to thank the students, facul
ty, and administration who were very helpful in selling
Davidson to our recruits. The basketball team did a
very, very good job. Tom Franz was 3-for-3.”

Although these six recruits represent a solid foun-
dation for Davidson basketball, Hussey still wants a
top 50 caliber player. “Next year we’ve gotta shoot for
one of those guys.

“We’ re beginning to have some tradition within
‘our team.”

Steve Soud *84

mA

19
