continued from page 13

So the U.S. decides to starve the Polish people to re-
taliate for the crackdown? No. As exiled solidarity
leaders have said, “Food is a political weapon to sub-
due the people. Giving more food to the government is
simply giving it more weapons.” If the U.S, is to act
(and not just talk) morally it cannot support the military
regime. We must also exert as much pressure as possi-

’ ble in order to bring about negotiations between Solid-

arity (or what remains of it) and the Polish regime. To
not act to pressure in some minor way is to allow Soviet
pressure to operate in a vacuum. Some say the U.S.
should channel food into Polnd via private sources. In
time of martial law it is dubious if private sources are
allowed the freedom of contact with the West and if in-
deed the Polish government would not use the food no
matter where it comes from, as-an important political
weapon. It is doubtful that the new authorities will let
their population starve. The regime and the Soviet
bachers. should have to paythe full economic conse-
quences of their actions. If the Poles begin to go hungry
can one honestly believe that the population will be-
lieve the new dictators when the dictators assert that the

U.S. is the cause of the shortage? Dubious. We will ne- .
gotiate a return to business as usual only after a lifting :

of martial law. To solely condemn Polish actions is to
talk loudly and carry no stick. =~

The U.S. and eventually its allies recognized the
complicity of the Soviet Union in this sorted affair.
From a communist viewpoint perhaps Solidarity did go
too far but only because they were increasingly frus-
trated by Soviet hostility and resistance to changé in
Poland. Our actions against the Soviets were milder
than the actions taken against the Polish regime but still
served as the only immediately redounding action that
the U.S. government, considering domestic economic
interests, could take. But we could not and should not
reply to the Soviet coercion with a mere scathing re-
buke. Because the actions were mild, we only sought
rhetorical and moral support from our allies. We final-

ly received this support in opite of initial German vacil-

lation.

The United States has taken the best action that could
be implemented quickly and be felt rapidly. The sanc-
tions will be little more than an inconvience and irrita-
tion to the Soviets. We must also consider further ac-
tions if our. perhaps chirmerical hopes for dialogue

within Poland nd gains to Solidarity disappear under .
the heads of tanks. If we can confirm that reform is tak- -
ing place, we should move to encourage further ameli-

oration of the situation: We must, however, continue
to protest with words and deeds if authoriatarianism re-
fuses to tolerate a freer Poland. As time goes on we
must possess other options to punish the repressors if
reforms.seems but a rosiate illuision. A concerted dec-
laration (or U.S. led with warning to our allies) of tech-
shical default of Polish loaris will affect not only Poland
~ but also its East European allies and Soviet protector
_.who need Western loans for both development and the

financing of their military machines. Other contingen- .
cy plans must look to formulate ‘an effective and con-

‘ certed grain and technology embargo. This: punish-
ment will have high political and economic costs that in
the past the West was unwilling to bear. Perhaps the
continuation of blatant repression in:Poland, a country
with deep.ties in the U:S: and Western Europe, will
provide thé: moral cement for concerted and justifiable
Western retaliation. | f

By Bill Barginann *82

-1-15- 82

On this day, 53 years ago, a man was born. Idare say
that nobody expected him to do much more than any
other black boy--he would grow up to suffer, and to
struggle; to love, arid to die another nameless, faceless,
black man. But fortunately for each black person in this
Chapel, Martin Luther King, Jr. stepped out of the
grotto of obscurity and shined brilliantly, though all
too briefly, in the glow of victory.

Before a crowd of over two hundred thousand people
at the Lincoln Memorial on August 28, 1963, Dr. King
told of-his dream. His was a mellow baritone voice
with an edge.of passion and conviction. With simple
but marvelously discipline eloquence, he described his
dream for America--and he invited all to share it. He
said;

“I have. a.dream that one day this nation will rise up

and live out the true meaning of its creed: We hold

these truths to be self evident; that ALL men are creat-

‘ed equal...I have a dream today. ”

Now the voice is stilled, the eloquence is but a me-
mory, and the limpid brown eyes of this dreamer and
man of deeds, are glazed in death. But his dreams live
on because dreams don’t stop until they come true. Just

. because everybody can vote now, just because nobody

has to sit in the back of a bus unless he wants to, just be-
cause Jim Crow has flown out of the books doesn’t
mean a new hen hasn’t come to roost. Don’t tell me,
and don’t deceive yourselves, that my standing here.is
evidence enough that the dream has been realized. Yes

_I'm here and there are fifty, more blacks herg, too, but

that fact is a long way off from any kind of proof.

It is so easy to believe that Dr. King’s dream of a na-
tion in which we will not be judged by the color of.our
skins, but by the contents of our characters, was just
that--a man’s dream, like so many other men’s dreams.
And it is so easy to believe that the fight for equality
died with Dr. King on April 4, 1968-that one assassin’s
bullet killed both the man and all he fought for. But the
cold hard reality is that some of us may have to die, ev-
er now, for the dream to stay alive; and it must stay
alive long enough to. be fulfilled. Just because blacks
can no longer be legally detested, the hatred felt in
many hearts is just as strong now as it has ever been.

We must keep the dream alive. We are the pride, the

expectations; we are the only hope this. nation has in.

these troubled. times. If we choose not to uphold the

. dream--you tell me, who else will? Yes, it’s a heavy |

burden; truth and freedom always are--but when the

last buzzer sounds at Davidson College for us, we. }
leave for the.real world. And in the real world; preju- ‘

dice still exists.

--Fodays’s: challenge has got to. be. tomorrow's suc-

cess. We cannot afford to let the appearances of equali-

ty delude us because appearances are not:truths. Don’t ©
be content to subsist on some'cheap placebo facsimile

of justice, the crumbs of which are tossed at us merely

‘to quiet our complaints. ‘Dr. King lost his life in the’

fight for true racial equality--we can settle for and ac-
cept no less. Believing that dignity can be comprom-

ised is akin. to’ being granted liberty while the sun.
shines, only to be shackled in hatred by night.

Martin Luther King, Jr., had a dream--and now, I’ve
got one, too. I havea dream that-one day all the wars
will be. over. Hatred and eeraation, ‘the weapons of

prejudice, will lie smoking on the battlefields. And
from the dust and ashes, the blood and tears, the world -
will be born anew.

I have a dream that the time will come for closeness,
for meeting of mind and soul. Though we will have
needed wars, we will need them then, no more. My eb-
ony beauty, yourivory-glow; the reds, the yellows, the
pecan browns--these will be the hues of brotherhood.
And this world, like all nature, will be at it’s most —
splendid when all colors are in bloom.

I can see a day when nobody has to apologize for
what he is; when equality does not have to negate iden-
tify; when we can be black, white, red, yellow and
brown--without having to strive toward any other per-
fection. I want to live in two worlds--my ebony. world
and the rainbow hued world that I pray can come to be--
and I want to share them both with all who wish to
know them. I’m looking forward toa world in which

_ black is not a word for evil, and people see my sable

skin, only to realize that midnights can be just as beau-
tiful as noontide.,

We are imprisoned i in the castles of our skins--let us
say “so be it: if amin jail, my prison shall become my
palace. Let my world be defined by my skin and the
skin of all people--for we, spirit to spirit, will embrace
this world.

This is my dream for someday--and I can feel the tri-
umph of some impending and glorious fulfillment,
some impossible possession, some incredible achieve-
ment. Don’t let the dreams die--not Dr. King’s, not
mine, not yours--don’t let them rest until, as Dr. King
said:

_..we let freedom ring. When we let it ring from every
village and every hamlet, from every village and every
city. When we will be able to speed up that day when
ALL of God’ s children, black men and white men, Jews
and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able
to join hands and sing in the words of the old negro
spiritual, “Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Al-
mighty, we are free at last!”
by Janet Stovall.’85

* Be “ i
he SW AAZAANN
HER YSN QOS (ai:

BVA Re ho al.

THE BS SAIN qi
SHEE. \
+ PS
1 AA We. mip wits

it x theta

| 7A) ive
iS 4 A)
(ll < WF |

+ i po

ESS

-DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 22 January 1982,

15
