Julian Bond Speaks in Love

Georgia state senator Julian Bond
spoke on the topic of “The Political Out-
look of the ’80’s” in Love Auditorium
on Monday, April 26. In his speech, he
blasted President Reagan’s policies and
called for the audience to help “purge
Congress of the Moral Majoritarians
and the rabid Right” in the upcoming
Congressional elections. .

Bond’s speech was preceded by a din-

ner in his honor at the Dupont Room of
the Commons. He answered questions
after his speech and attended a reception
in the Morrison Room. A private meet-
ing with members of the Black Student
Coalition planned for 3:00, was can-
celled because Bond’s flight was de-
layed.

’ The BSC, the Union Speakers Com-
mittee, and the Martin Luther King Lec-
ture Series each contributed $500 to-
ward Bond’s engagement fee, accord-
ing to former BSC Speaker Committee
Chairman Gabriella Robinson (84).
Bond was the first speaker of the Martin
Luther King Lecture Series, established
by College President Spencer to bring a
prominent black speaker to the campus
each year, according to Union Speaker
Committee Chairman Sherman Allen.
In his speech, Bond said that the
country is being run as an anti-black

“conservative confederacy” by men
with “small minds and even smaller
dreams” who have redistributed income
from the bottom up and “reintroduced
Big. Brother to the American scene,”
Bond said. “In civil rights generally, a
retreat has been sounded.” He cited the
weakening of the Civil Rights Voting
Act of 1965 several times, “the most ef-
fective civil rights law of this century.”

Bond said that “even Moby Dick

would slip through” President Reagan’s «. |

safety net of social programs. He cited a
large number of statistics and studies to
refute the President’s assertion that the
poor would not be hurt by his budget
cuts.

Bond said that one-third of all black
families needed food stamps last year,
and that “the disproportionate number
of blacks in poverty remains proof that
white supremacy is a part of mainstream
American culture.”

Bond spoke out strongly against cur-
rent U.S. foreign policy. He said that
military spending is wasteful and
creates few jobs, and that promoting ag-
gressive militarism is “political capital
earned at the expense of people living at
the American edge.” He said that the
U.S. lost in Ethiopia, Angola, and Mo-
zambique because it supported reaction-
ary colonialism, and that it will lose in

Development After

The Final Article in a Three Part Series

This is the final in a three part focus on
Development at Davidson. The col-
lege’ s developmental policy is analysed
in this segment.

Davidson has started planning for
Development beyond the scope of the
1987 program.

Earlier, in.the first part of this series,
details of the program of development
from 1974—1987 were presented.

Along with the College, the town of
Davidson has well—developed plans
for continual reasonable growth as a:
community.

The Trustees have. already begun to
deliberate upon developmental goals to
be pursued in five years when the 1987
program is completed, The Strategic

ing Committee is specifically

charged with the formulation of these —

long range goals, which will affect the
whole Davidson community.

The office of Deve expects to

reach the goal of 35 million’ dollars for
the 1987 program by 1984. Atthis time,
it will announce an extended goal of 50
million dollars..Most of the increase
will go to cover increased building Costs
and inflation.

and a result af an aoate specified by

the 1974 report on development from
the subcommittee on Campus Planning.
The College is currently engaged in a
massive capital expansion program.
Thus far, few of the goals of that capital
development have been realized.

~ One major goal was to build dorms to
alleviate the housing shortage. Current-
ly the situation is tighter than it has ever
been, seemingly due to two factors.

Firstly, Business Manager Robert
Currie has decided to remove perimeter
housing to use of faculty, because hous-
ing is so expensive and hard to find in
the Davidson area, and housing serves
as a non—monetary compensation to
augment the generally lower salaries at
Davidson, as compared with other

-North Carolina colleges and universi-
ties.

Secondly, the population of Davidson
has. increased 150 students. to 1400,
since 1974, a policy of expansion that
was apparently unanticipated - fifteen
years ago.

The removal of perimeter housing is
very .expensive. An eight—person
house, aside. from: the. initial several
thousand dollar renovation; made into a
faculty home costs the college about
000 a yeas, and a Em ic home

Picture by Andy Scott ’84

El Salvador and Nicaragua for the same
reason. He called U.S. involvement in
Vietnam “aggressive colonial war.”
Bond was elected to the Georgia
House of Representatives in 1965, but
was barred from taking his seat for three
years by legislators who objected to his

converted costs $8,000 in lost rent. At
this rate one wonders why Davidson
doesn’t buy the professors houses out-
right, or raise their salaries so that they
can find their own homes.

In 1971, national fraternities were
asked to stop using a selective bidding
system if they were to continue to use
college facilities. It was felt that the se-
lectivity of fraternities was an unhealthy
form of social discrimination. With the

completion of the attractive Vail Com-_

mons, and tough. new fiscal restrictions
soon to be imposed by Business Manag-
er Currie, it seems that those non—fra-
ternity eating houses that are-truly self-
—selective and do not require oral en-
couragements are in danger of closing.
The cost of the new athletic facility
has doubled since its initial estimation.
Building will be commencing soon. An
architectural model has been shown to a
parents organization, though details are
not currently made available by the Col-
lege. The College has a “conservative”
fiscal policy, which dictates that it will
not borrow money. The effects of this
policy on the increased costs of building

. are.unknown.
Davidson’s developniental goals t thus .

far seem to be centered around expan-

anti-Vietnam War stance. More recent-
ly, he has led a number of grass-roots
campaign to promote political participa-
tion by minorities, and was named to
Time Magazine’s “200 Leaders” list.

Pete Gulyn *83

the 1987 Program

sion of the physical plant without regard
of ultimate developmental goals. The
whole college community must soon
begin dialogue on such important yet

_ undecided questions as: the ultimate

size of the student body, just how much
growth is reasonable, and what David-
son’s real goals as an educational insti-
tuation are. The current process of ad-
ministrative, stopgap planning and in-
tuition have proved to be problematic in
the development of goals, yet alone in
their realization.

There will undoubtedly have to be a
much greater emphasis on student and
professorial endorsement, especially in
light of what is likely to be continued
lowering of governmental subsidy. Will
we need a new math building to replace
the current Jackson Court inadequate fa-
cilities? New Biology facilities? How
will the administration expand further in
Chambers without loss of classrooms?

Davidson has a five star image. As a.
result of the efforts of the 1987 pro-
gram, it.will have a five star physical

- plant. It must soon be decided what is

necessary to turn Davidson into a fiv-
e—star college.

John Richards *83

