To The Editor:.

| hope all the members of the David-

son family who did not read Van Beck's

and Stokes Peebles’s letters in- last

~ week’s Davidsonian, will dig up a copy
and do so’ now...

Van and Stokes understand perfectly

what you: Davidsonian people fail (and

always have failed) to understand: Col- .

lege is not a place to challenge conven-
tional values, but rather to absorb them.
How do you firebrands suppose a stu-
dent can become: a good citizen and a
- cheerful, loyal’ worker if he’s in the hab-

it of speaking out every time some injus- ©

tice pops up?

You will better serve the Davidson:

community if you publish, for example;
spots for upcoming eco and chemistry
reviews or interview recent alumni who
are doing well in dermatology school.

Just remember,.if you're not a sissy,
you shouldn’t have come to Davidson in
the first place.

John Siman "82

Dear Oddly Dressed Editor:
- We question the value of the analogy

you have provided i in your recent editor- .

ial concerning the plight of the Polish

people. Though your intention to re--

mind us of the events which have tran-
spired in Poland is encouraging and well
received, thé imposition of Martial Law
is the culmination of a complex histori-

cal struggle within Poland, the nature of

which is in no way comparable:at any
level to your recent experience in South
Carolina. We feel you have dealt with
this issue in a superficial manner unbe-

coming of an editor; your position does .
‘not give you philosophial breathing

space, but the responsibility of choosing
your words more carefully, ~~

‘In a spirit of constructive criticism

with the hopes that the Davidsonian will
" reverse its recent trend.’

Andy Miles and Randy Harwell

nm PAHOA! ier

To the Editor:

In response to the lead article on Jan-
uary 15, 1982 entitled “Girls,
Claim Richards and Bailey”, I have one
question: Would you ever title an article
“Boys, BSC Claim Richards and Bai-

. ley” unless in reference to a group of

males under 12?.

_ Betsy Thomas 82

4

To The Editor:

On Wednesday members of Alpha

Phi Omega, national service fraternity ,-
déliveréd to dormitory rooms énvelopes

_ for ‘spring term: régistration: I guess

many. students are not aware of this
long-term service which APO renders,

but I want them to know. On behalf of
the students and the Registrar’s Office I
want to thank APO for its continuing
contribution to us all. May its tribe in-
crease.

Richard. Burts, Jr.
Registrar ~

~

To the Editor: _. .
Thanks to the Housing Office for re-
sponding to our plea and providing us
with a new shade. (Sorry guys). Thanks
to you for publishing our letter of dis-
tress:and increasing the number of Sen-
tellites: with their eyes trained on 2nd

. Cannon,

Gratefully yours,

Two now-shaded and happy coeds
from Cannon,

Suzanne Dickey and Holly, Spannuth

To The Editor:

It’s not often that snow lasts long.

enough at Davidson for people to notice
the difference ; but when it does, as it did

_ this week,’ it is rather: obvious. that the.
* college does not care to deal with it ef- -
fectively, =

BSC ©

Personally, I like snow and didn’t
mind getting wet feet because none of
the sidewalks were shovelled’ on cam-

pus this week ior did I mind slip-sliding

to classes whén fluctuating tempera-

~~ tures melted snow to slush and froze it~
 _ back again. I like danger: it keeps my —

mind occupied and alert. But other

- folks, particularly the ones with smooth
plastic soles on their shoes, or crutches,
“did not thrill to the challenge of the un-

disturbed ice flocs which for days.

covered such well-traveled paths as Ri-
chardson Plaza and the bright, new side-

-walks around the Commons. I know no, __
Davidson student’ s father would sue the’. ~
college cause his $7 ,000-a-year invest-~

ment slipped and ctacked his skullon a
sidewalk that should have been cleared,

but since such things happen in the real
world, I couldn't help but wonder what

a shame it would be to. have to mortgage .

the Commons in order to pay off a law-
suit! And such nice brick sidewalks, too
(wherever they are)!

By-the.time this letter has been print-
ed, the only thing that will be left of the
snow will be the old familiar mudslides
we are used to ruining sneakers in, but I
hope the administration will take my ob-
servations with a grain of salt and invest
in some, and some sand as well, for next
time, before another real world tragedy
hits home.

John Krotchko

To The Editor: —

The frequent lack of communica-
tion and cooperation at Davidson be-

tween students and students, students.

and administration, and between vari-
ous administrative offices and depart-
ments has resulted in inefficiency and
conflict in normal college operations
and daily life. ‘I believe that active ef-
forts at increasing the quanlity of com-
munication between these groups can be
nothing but productive and can improve

the quality of services provided by the:

college. Several examples of how Da-
vidson falls short of the ideal of effec-
tivé: communication will serve to illus-
trate my point.

-- Roommate conflicts come to a head

. during Winter Term. In a majority of

cases, the first expressions of discontent

are not between roommates but to Bill-
Bolding or to one of the Resident. Advi-

sors. In some instances, communication

between pairs ceases completely, and ~
nothing can resolve the conflicts except. .

Separation or a change of room. Howev-
er, when roommates sit down and dis-

cuss differences face to face, ina spirit
of mutual understanding, compromises |
. can’ be made and conflicts resolved.,

This communication should be a first.

step, not one which occurs after formal

ag ade is demanded from the poues

‘ings about our using “their”

Office. ;

Similar problems exist in eating
houses. Discontent with an aspect of
fraternity or eating house services is not -
expressed openly until it bcomes chron-
ic and an affect the.popularity or attrac-
tiveness of. the houses. themselves.
Often the discontent remains unsatiat-
éd, feeds. upon itself, and is later ex-
pressed by one’s leaving the house en-
tirely. Communication in this instance
would allow the houses’ to provide -a
more viable alternative to the Commons
and might help keep memberships stong
and loyal. -

Last Spring, the club soccer team

chad a very unpleasant run in with some

of the football coaches and players. We
were playing on one fo the practice

. fields, and the coaches. objected, (in a

very salty. manner) thinking we would
muddy it further. Ifthe coaches had
known of our intent to play there, or if
we had known of the depth of their feel-
field, some
kind of compromise could have evolved
which would have avoided the.conflict

. Which occurred. Numerous examples of

this type of conflict occur both between
club and varsity sports and. between
men’s and women’s teams.

.The residents of Davidson’s pe-
rimeter houses were and still are con-
cerned about their living conditions.
Several problems were resolved after
meeting with Bill Bolding. Little was
accomplished prior to these meetings,
when most of the discussion concerning
perimeter ‘houses was held in-the David-

~~. sonian: Bill was able to ‘inform the off-

campus houses about his staff limita-
tions.and about some of the “unfixable”
characteristics of several. houses. He
was also able to prioritize and discover
their specific needs. This helped him to
get things fixed efficiently. Bill ex-
plained to me that the most was accomp-
lished when they communicated with
him face to-face with a constructive, as
opposed to a defensive, attitude.

In addition, the physical Plant Offi-
ce’s relationship with students has im-
proved markedly over the past few
years. Their main contact with students
has been through fixing damage which
we sometimes inflict ‘on the dorms and
elsewhere. They, naturally, feel antag-
onized by these occurances and distrust
students to some degree. When they
meet with students who are concerned
with maintaining the dormitories or
when they see constructive students ef-
forts, such as the lounge in basement
Belk, they modify their views of stu-

' dents in general: Communication with

them contributes to this trend.
~Davidson’s adminstrative offices

- are all on one floor in Chambers. One

would belive that this would facilitate
communication and cooperation among

them in dealing with college functions

and operations. This ideal is hampered

__DAVIDSONIANY Friday 22 January 1982
