Featyres

Master Potter
At Davidson

MacKinlay Zimmermann

demonstrates his cratt

»

By ANNE LAMBERT ’86

In the middle of the Union Conversation Pit, he
works in silence. Hunched over his kickwheel, deep in
concentration, he is apparently oblivious to the crowd
around him. Teachers, students, community members
watch in fascination as MacKinlay Zimmermann,
‘master potter,” labors to create another of the original
works that have made him a successful and respected
artist in the field of pottery. — a

Zimmermann, brother of Davidson Vice-president
of Academic Affairs T. C. Price Zimmermann, visited
the Campus Friday, 24 September through Monday,
27 September to exhibit his pottery, give demonstra-
tions, and instruct aspiring potters.

A professional potter since 1972, Zimmermann
makes Knoxville, Tennessee his home. In addition to
his private business, he currently serves on the comom-
ission for the World’s Fair, creating gifts for visiting
dignitaries.

Friday moming Zimmermann began his exhibition
with a casual coffee and doughnut “meet-the-artist”
break. Zimmermann demonstrated his craft for a cur-
ious audience. He did not lecture, but he responded to
questions and added an occasional dry-witted com-
ment like, “Ya know, pottery is the second oldest pro-
fession in the world.”

The exhibition will put him a little behind in his
work at home, but he was nonetheless “very excited”
about the show at Davidson. “It’s a very discerning
public here and an academic setting. That’s the motiva-
tion I'll need to go back and get to work again.” In
Knoxville, Zimmermann is privately commissioned to
create art for patrons. He also exhibits his work in craft
fairs and galleries.

Zimmermann is not a typical “struggling young art-
ist” story. At the age of 35 he quit an executive position
in a manufacturing firm because he “couldn’t handle”

by Ginna McGee ‘85

the responsibility. A friend taught him the basics of
pottery and he enrolled in the University of Tennessee
where he received his graduate degree in ceramics.

“When I finished the University, the idea came to
me — ‘gosh, now I have to do something.” Whatever
you may be doing [studying] is great within the con-
fines of an academic institution, but once you're out-
side . . . can you handle it?

“When I left [my old job} I heard comments like,
‘You know, Zimmermann used to be a real nice guy . .
. Now he’s gone off the deep end.’ But I proved a point
six years later. It kinda changed things around.”

Zimmermann has the credentials of an art degree,
but he asserts that the artistic process calls for more
than formal training. “You need to learn, but you also
need to assimilate, so that when you are creating a
piece of pottery you don’t remember [the techniques];
you just practice.”

He finds an inner motivation for his work. “In grad-
uate school they told us, ‘You gotta have a notebook.
You're just not gonna make tt without a notebook’ . . . |
can’t work that way. I find inspiration comes from do-
ing, by doing it over and over. You're thinking as
you're working, and the concepts start happening. And
that’s the real creative process.”

As an artist marketing his craft, he relies on the
skills his previous career taught him. “There are no set
rules for this game of selling art, but it does require a
little business sense. It requires pushing, and that’s not
fun but you gotta do it.

“What is the cost of a piece of art? How can you fig-
ure that?” Zimmermann does not feel threatened by the
technology and mass production of art, because he be-
lieves he has an advantage. “There’s one thing we
missed in the Industrial Revolution, and that was that
the machine has everything but a heart . . . and that’s
what we missed.

“Creativity’s a funny thing,” Zimmermann says of
his work. “Everybody has it in one degree or another. |
think creating something from nothing takes a little
more talent, but I don’t like to consider myself that dif-
ferent from people.”

Zimmermann and his craft have a self-described
mission: “The purpose of my pottery is to continue in
the tradition of classical timelessness.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/11 October 1982
