14 Friday, April 22, 1983 / The Davidsonian

r |
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 19]4

Bye Bye, BB

Humor can take subtle forms, quite often in the face of irony.
Humor at the expense of others is often the most entertaining, until
the joke’s on you.

The Booze Brothers column has generated a wide readership on
campus because it provides humor different from anything else in
The Davidsonian. Davidson can certainly use more self-examina-
tion in this apparent desert of satire, so we decided to run BB, hop-
ing to provide the tart refreshment Davidson sometimes seems to
cry for — if Davidson can’t laugh at itself, then it is a dry place in-
deed, we reasoned.

But the waterhole seems to have gone a bit sour in this oasis.
The focus of the column shifted from poking fun at Davidson in-
stitutions to poking fun at Davidson students. The column lost its
original iconoclastic edge as it centered on individuals who may or
may not have deserved the comments they drew. Some students
were not amused; others were genuinely offended.

While any column claiming to satirize a community will surely
offend someone (how could it be successful if it did not?), we can-
not justify continuing to run a column which primarily attacks indi-
viduals and carries out personal vendettas. In several cases we
didn’t realize contexts of certain comments in BB until they were
pointed out to us. Our oversight; our mistake. We should have done
our homework.

But ultimately, we had to confront a problem as important as
the offensiveness of BB: what is satire that has no point? When de-
ciding on the fate of BB, this question figured as much as our con-
cern about offended readers. We can figure no real good to come
from these often very inside jokes, so we have decided to leave BB
back at the camel stand of humor.

Even the most Juvenalian of satirists, Jonathan Swift, had
limits to the extent of his attacks: “He spared a hump, or crooked
nose, / Whose owners set not up for beaux,” he wrote of himself. In
looking for a column to replace the Booze Brothers, we plan to
keep this attitude in mind. At the same time, however, we will not
hesitate to engage a columnist who is willing to upset a few for the
good of all.

Finally, despite our misunderstanding, we wish to acknowl-
edge the dedicated work of the Booze Brothers as a part of The
Davidsonian.

== —

———
=

——

. / im ~ ‘

~ ee
Vt fl P OEE
-_ = an,

—~

———————

== wr ~all

x
>’ aN er) A

The TCPZ Memorial Paper Drive

LETTERS

—_ =

Booze Brothers Offends

To the Editor:

This letter to the editor concerns that
calumnous choir of fun-loving mudslin-
gers fondly known as the Booze Brothers
of Davidson College. I’m sure that many
of you have been subject at one time or
another to the acrimonious wit of those
entertaining young chaps, and I must
admit that I’ve enjoyed a chuckle or two
myself after skimming over their rather
sizeable column. But have you ever won-
dered just who these gifted young come-
dians are and why they consistently ref-
rain from placing their names at the end
of their little slanderous epistles?
Perhaps they fear the recriminations and
physically abusive retaliations their cut-
ting and often untrue, unkind remarks
deserve; but then again, Tito, if I looked
like a 200-pound Pillsbury doughboy
with slits for eyes, I suppose I might find
that time spent criticizing others’ phys-

ical and mental “deficiencies” took my
mind off my own deplorable appearance
too.

Take a moment and be honest with
yourselves, Davidson students. If you
know the particular Booze Brother I just
referred to, you might find the above re-
mark amusing, but didn’t just a little tiny
part of you cringe inside and say, “That
was really an ugly and unnecessary state-
ment’? If not, then don’t continue read-
ing this letter; you’ll miss the entire
point. The point I’m trying to make is
that humor is one thing, but the use of a
school journal read by students, faculty,
and parents alike to express rude per-
sonal opinions about other students’ per-
sonalities and physical appearance is not
only wrong, it’s immature, a waste of
good newspaper, and not the least bit
funny.

Rives Balcom ’84

‘Planet’ Posters

To the Editor:

I would like to thank the fine people
who made the posters for the film “If You
Love This Planet.” Being a United States
hater, I took great pride in the fact that
these posters noted that the Justice De-
partment (Boo!! Hiss!!) called this movie
“foreign propaganda.” I always knew
those guys were up to something. Fur-
thermore, the posters pointed out that

I’m not apathetic for thinking this way.
Gee! It’s great to be involved! In fact,
I’m so inspired by everything that I’m
now planning to produce a film myself
(donations accepted — they are tax de-
ductible) called The Satanic Rites of John
Glenn. It should be finished just by inau-
geration time.
I love you all,
Matt Morris
