The Davidsonian / Friday, April 29, 1983 7

Barrat Takes Vereen Bell Honors

By BRIAN BUTLER

Senior James Barrat won first prize in
two of Davidson’s annual creative writ-
ing competitions for his short story,
“Waiting for Starkweather.” Barrat re-
ceived first prize in both the Vereen Bell
Award for Creative Writing and the
Union Literary Arts Committee fiction
competitions. The Bell Award also rec-
ognized Barrat’s work on his stories
“Rooms” and “First Family.”

Freshman Frank Hague won first
place in the R. Windley Hall Writing
Award for Freshmen for his collection of
poems, “Crosswinds.”

Senior Ruth Wolf won first prize in
the Literary Arts Committee poetry com-
petition for her poem “Married
Bachelors.”

All awards were presented last
night at a ceremony last night in the 900
Room.

Professor Richard Dillard of Hollins
College selected the winner of the Ver-
een Bell Award. Union Committee
members Suzanne Dickey and Scot
Myers chose the winners of the Literary
Arts Committee award. Members of the

Davidson College English department
selected the winners of the R. Windley
Hall Award.

Other winners in the Vereen Bell
competition included:

Second Prize: senior Kirsten
McDonald for her collection of poems
“Love in Catholic Ireland” and two
stories “Good Luck with the Bad” and
“Arrival in Tucson”; and David Fleming
for his story “Sweeps.”

Third Prize: senior Jonathan Glance
for his stories “A Circle of Dreams” and
“Jonny Mambo, Private Eye” and a
poem “The Prologue and Tale of the Man
at Arms”; junior Earl Wooten for his
story “One out of Every Ten”; senior
David Taylor for his stories “Out of
Hand” and “Lunch at the Water Tower”;
and senior Linda Hulburt for her stories
“Denial” and “Not Satisfactory” and
poem “Lying on my Stomach: A Vi-
sion.”

Honorable Mention: junior Lisa
Boardmar for her play “Rouge”; junior
Scot Myers for his story “My Sins, My-
self”; senior Eric Fichtner for his play
“The First Death of a Poet”; and senior
Laura Singleton for her collection of

poems “Six Poems in Search of a Title”
and story “Darker After Midnight.”

Second prize winners in the R.
Windley Hall competition were Martha
Wilson for her collection of poems
“Backward Glances,” and Alison McGill
for her short story “Ian.”

An excerpt from

Honorable mentions in the Literary
Arts Committee competition were John
Marks for his poem “The Searcher”; Syl-
vie Adenis for her poem “Little Fat’’;
James Barrat for his story “Badminton
Tree”; and Roxanna Guilford for her
story “Skeletons in the Closet.”

Waiting for Starkweather

As he stirred in the shade of the
porch, Daddy peered through sleep
into the red sea of the Wyoming bad-
lands before him. Heat waves rose
thickly from the sand and scrub and
blurred the panorama as it stretched
back from the road beside the house
into a vast liquid mural. The morning
sky was red and depthless and sucked
into it tall whirlpools of dust, breathing
a desolate whisper as it dragged the
weird dancers to topple, and stir again.

Suddenly it was dusk and on a dis-
tant sloping bluff Daddy stood in his
Sunday clothes facing Starkweather,
who looked like his picture in the
Rawlings Tribune. Starkweather’s dry

Counseling Offers Variety of Services

By KELLY SUNDBERG

Davidson College offers its students
a wide variety of counseling services.
Clinical psychologists Barbara Ballard,
Amelia Dockery, and John Wheeler,
Deans of Students Will Terry and Sue
Ross, and Chaplain Charlie Summers all
are available to help students who feel a
need for counseling.

Ballard, Dockery and Wheeler each
see students by appointment one day a
week, in their office located in the Union
basement. The counseling center hopes
to add an additional psychologist next
year, which would make counseling
available four days a week. Terry and
Ross are available throughout the week,
as is Summers, whose office is also in the
basement of the Union.

Davidson's counselors deal with all
sorts of student problems. Family ten-
sions (divorce, financial problems), dif-
ficulties with relationships (romantic, or
among roomates or friends), death, ques-
tions about sexuality, academic difficul-
ties, career decisions — these and other
topics all bring students to counselors.
Depression, according to Ballard is a fre-
quent complaint. “Often a student’s
problems boil down the question,
“What’s wrong with me?’”

More often than not, a student seeks
counseling on his own initiative, “80 or
90 percent come on their own, or on the
recommendation of a friend who has pre-
viously had counseling.” said Ballard.
Terry agreed. “Sometimes a professor or
hall counselor might suggest, ‘Why
don’t you go see Will or Sue?’” Usually,
though, it’s the student’s choice.”

A counselor will also refer a student
to a colleague if he feels it is in the stu-
dent’s best interest. Ballard noted, “We

all ask ourselves, ‘Am-|;the best person.-_-

for this person to, bg. talking, wath?i.i,:"We::

have a good working relationship,”

Students usually turn to a counselor
because they want the opinion of some-
one not emotionally involved in the prob-
lem. “A counselor can be objective, have
some perspective on a situation.” re-
marked Ballard. “Often when I counsel
someone about a romantic relationship, I
don’t even know who the other person
is,” stated Summers.

Proportionally more females than
males seek counseling. Ballard has
noticed changes in this area, however.
“In the five years P've been here, P’'ve
noticed that more males are asking for
help, and asking sooner. Men are taught
never to need assistance. I’m glad that’s
changing.”

While Davidson’s counselors’ jobs
overlap to a degree, they also have cer-

tain areas which they deal with most fre-
quently. Ballard, Dockery, and Wheeler
are more likely to see a student on a
longer-term basis than Ross, Terry, or
Summers, who see their counseling work
more as “crisis intervention — dealing
with a certain, specific problem.”
Summers position as Chaplain makes
his counseling role unique. Summers
helps with theological problems and
questions as well as personal ones. He at-
taches special importance to his role as
pastor. Summers also counsels students
who seek conscientious objector status,
and has the appropriate C.O. forms.
Student counseling is kept confiden-
tial — “Even the fact that a student
sought counseling at all,” said Terry. In
the infrequent case that confidentiality is
broken, “99 percent of the time.” Ballard

old eyes were diiisplaced in the fresh
nineteen year old face. Behind thick,
frameless spectacles the eyes were tiny
and sharp and hardened by rural scenes
of horror Daddy dared not imagine.
Daddy felt his thin hair tossed by the
desert’s dry gust, but the hair of the
young man was frozen in place by oil
or grease in the manner of hoodlums
and gasoline attendants from the city.
He was alarmed to see the killer wear-
ing the windbreaker he’d given his old-
est, Jimmy, somehow lengthened to fit
Starkweather’s bulky frame. The
boy’s thin lips moved with an airy
voice that hissed like distance and
scrambling sand.

stated, “the student knows or has even re-
quested it.” In critical situations where
life or health is in danger (a student is
suicidal, for example), “the counselor al-
ways will act in the student’s best interest
— if that requires breaking confidential-
ity, it only makes sense to do so.”

One of the strong points of David-
son's counseling service is its diversity.
Ballard said of the counselors, “We're all
very different people, with different per-
sonalities. Chances are. anyone can find
someone here who they're comfortable
talking with.” Terry summarized the
counselor's philosophy: “We're all in
this together — and we're here to help
the students.”

Note: If you want counseling. call the
Counseling and guidance office at 892-
2000, extension 130.

Fish Market Brings Beach To Cornelius

By DALE CARTER

I shall eat or party at The Old Cor-
nelius Fish Market many more times be-
fore what I hope is my inevitable gradua-
tion. I sampled the raw and steam bar in
one gluttonous effort in the company of
David “Slug” Lincoln, Rene Herlong.
Hobart Hutchession (the custodian of the
Chemistry laboratory), and Thurston
‘T’m not eating those slimy things”
Hatcher.

I had a beer (Tuesday is 25-cent draft
night, and this night was Tuesday) a
bow! of clam chowder, and a dozen fresh
raw oysters. The New England style
clam chowder was above average, but
the $2.00 price was a little more than I’m
used to. But then, we are five hours from
the beagh.

der, hoping not to lose his appetite when
my oysters arrived. Hobart complained
that there was no fried food and only side
dishes were served. Luckily, the clam
chowder was loaded with potatoes,
meaty chunks of clam, and onions for
seasoning, which met to Hobart’s ap-
proval, and the 25-cent draught raised
the corners of his mouth. Rene ordered
gumbo and steamed rock shrimp and
opted for water over beer. Poor Rene was
left hungry and minus $7.00. He did
enjoy the gumbo, but those damn rock
shrimp were impossible to shell.

Slug finished his chowder. smiled at
me, and ordered a third round of beer for
the two of us.

Thurston urged me to try another
item on the menu so-lismiled at Dave, or-

st i Ehurston quickly atechisclam chowe--1:) :.devetdthe both bf as-Aanother beer, and de-

cided to try the steamed gulf shrimp in-
stead of those hard rock shrimp. The
shrimp were fresh, but I like them boiled
with old bay seasoning. Thurston and
Rene left with the hunger desire stil! in
their bellies while Dave and | ordered

more beer and a dozen raw oysters.

Herr und Frau Winkler kamen, un
Bier und Essen zu haben. With this nice
surprise Dave and | had another beer. |
tried the smoked catfish and my taste
buds thanked nie greatly. After conver-
sation and beer we felt that it was time to
move back to campus and share this party
with our friends (the female ones. we
hoped). Hobart and Dave's bill was
$4.00 and ours was $16.00 (it sounds ex-
pensive but I felt so good after having

_ great beer and excelfent oysters that I,was
up all night celebrating).

“a4

de sake
