A candle for King

On September 21, 1966, Dr. Martin Luther King spoke at
Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte. According to The
Davidsonian of that week, at least 100 Davidson students attended
the lecture. Dr. King told the audience “Each person lives two lives,
within and without. The within concerns man’s internal goals,
while the without deals with the instrumentalities by which man
lives. But the within has been absorbed by the without, morality by
mentality, theology by technology. We have guided missiles and
misguided men.”

Much has changed in the sixteen years that have followed, but
Dr. King is still relevant. Recent race riots in Miami and KKK
demonstrations blighted our holidays and reminded the nation of the
importance of continuing Dr. King’s work. Closer to home, Jule
Jone’s open luncheon lecture and Eric Long’s letter this month
remind us that the town of Davidson is racially divided. We do not
have to look far to see misguidance.

Saturday is Martin Luther King’s birthday. It is not a national or
school holiday, but it should be. What better day to pause and think,
both within ourselves and without, about how we treat each other.
“I'd rather die than hate you,” Dr. King told his audience in the
Smith gym.

This weekend the Black Student Coalition has sponsored a trip
to Washington, D.C. to support a national Martin Luther King

birthday celebration. Although there is no organized celebration at —

Davidson this weekend, we can all participate.

The Davidsonian would like to encourage every member of the
college community to burn a candle during lunch tomorrow, to
remember Dr. King and more importantly, his work. Even a short
moment of looking within could help us change what is without. Dr.
King’s birthday should be a holiday within each of us.

We realize that this is symbolic activity of burning a candle
during lunch is just that, a symbol. But let it be a symbol, not just of
our past but of Dr. King’s challenge of equality amongst ourselves.

The flame on Dr. King’s grave in Atlanta is something that
should live within each of us this Saturday. A candle on your dinner
table is wholly appropriate.

The Butler did it

Two weeks ago Brian Butler retired from The Davidsonian
staff. The long hours of attending to his executive editor duties were
cutting into his English, Music, and personal studies. Although he’s

t

2 .

not around the office much anymore, he’s not forgotten. A year of
Thursday all-nighters, wild last minute trips to Greensboro to
bypass a broken typesetter and countless hours of editing would
emplant spirits anywhere. In this case friendly spirits. Following aré
two quotes in honor of a friend of The Davidsonian.
The New Century Dictionary
butler (but’ler), n. [OF. “butiller” , «ML. buticularius, <buticula]
A man-servant having charge of wines and liquours in a
household; the head male servant of a household, who keeps the
plate, etc.; also an official of high rank nominally connected with
the supply of wine for the royal table.
Rodale’s The Word Finder
(Adjectives for use with the word Butler.)
impressive; preemptory; perfect; shrinking; hovering; worried;
excellent; solemn; diminutive; competent; grizzled.
Candidate Endorsement
We, the following staff and former staff members of The
Davidsonian, support David Resnik and Ann Meador in their bid to
become co-editors of The Davidsonian in the upcoming election.
We support David and Ann for the following reasons:
1) Together they are the most qualified candidates, in both the
production and editorial ends of a newspaper.
2) They have a good concept of responsible and fair journalism
and have the knowledge and will to discipline themselves and the
staff in carrying out that task.

Fred Broadwell

Brian Butler Jeff Mann

Jeff Danese Frank Hague Matt Morris
Lou Hamilton Scot Myers

Jeff Dempsey Rob Hollenbeck Tom Pafford

Clare M. Eckert —_Lentz Ivey SteveSoud

Jonathan Glance _ Elizabeth Kiss Debby Williams

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davideonian is published Fridays during the schoo!
yeer by the students of Devidson College. Address cor-
reepondence to: Devidsonien, Box 218, Devideon, NC
28036. Phone 704/882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices to-
cated on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subsecrip-
tions cost $10 per year. Advertising retes available on

y Second clases postage no. USPS 149.300 1

Stewart Cauley, Editor Tom Pafford, Executive Editor

David Resnik, News Editor

Jeff Mann, Assistant News Editor
Jeff Dempsey, Features Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor

Ann Meador, Production Editor
Anderson Scott, Photography Editor

Debby Williams, Fine Arts Editor

Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

Jeff Danese, Advertising Managers
Frank Hague

Tom Schilling, Circulation Manager

Scot Myers, Graphics

Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Clare Eckert, Jonathan
Glance, Joe Jaworski, Matt Morris, John Verdi, An-
drew Wilson, Features Staff

Boyd Blackburn, Duncan Fraser, Carl Hobson,
Paulette Kurani, Anne Lambert, Tim McGaughey, El-
odie McMillan, Peggy Pierotti, Mike Tantillo, News
Staff’

Kara Gilmore, Scott Huie, Garry Sullivan, Sports Staff

Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, John Lyday, Ginna
McGee, Laura McGee, John Ruppenthal, Photography
Staff

Rob Hollenbeck, Production Staff
