Friday, November 4, 1983/The Davidsonian 15

The Boomerang Effect

Dr. Leon Bendesky

The ongoing situation in Central America and the
United States’s military intervention in Grenada are
clear signs of the choices that the Reagan Administration
has taken in the region. The central concern is repre-
sented by the overall perception of West-East confronta-
tion in which Central America is taken as the ground for
testing the American policy of global containment.

These events show how American foreign policy has
been driven to a more direct involvement in the region.
These policies also reflect a misunderstanding of some
of the most pressing problems of Latin America and the
Caribbean and are bound to have a “boomerang” effect
in the medium run.

The government first attempted its containment pol-
icy based in El Salvador’s situation, trying to aid forces
closer to U.S. interests. As this approach failed to con-
trol political deterioration and as the situation became
more complex with developments in Nicaragua, the ef-
fort was placed in the regionalization of the coflicts. This
has meant, among other things, increasing pressure on a
country like Costa Rica that could cost it its traditional
stability. The invasion of Grenada is part of the third
trend in American involvement, the use of rapid deploy-
ment forces in the area. This reflects the extreme of the
polarized view of the socio-political problems in Central
America and the Caribbean, that is, one in terms of East-
West confrontation.

What the Administration is losing sight of is that the
character of the social problems in Latin America have
both a historical and structural origin. This is a region
constantly pressed by rigid and authoritarian political
structures that have been unable to tansfer the gains of
economic growth to the masses, thus maintaining a very

unequal society. A second element is the constant real as
well as psychological presence of the U.S. in the region.
The subcontinent has always been seen as a natural space
of America’s influence, but there is a cost to this form of
domination in the world economy.

Both the political and economic structures of inter-
national relations have been changing. One aspect of this
change is manifested in the new connotations of
nationalism in Latin America. This powerful element in
domestic politics in the region is advocated for different

yy! {)
WL :
¢/ Mapa girs: a “

Lg
oe?

yor
9 oO PR.Cloudt~ 4/93

Ties with South America
purposes and with different objectives by both the rignt
and the left. Probably the most striking example is
Argentina’s fight for the Malvinas.

These developments have given rise to increasing at-
tempts of independent foreign policy by the major coun-
tries in the region. Venezuela and Mexico have joined in
the San Jose Treaty, providing subsidized oil to Central
America and the Caribbean. They have later formed the
Contadora Group with Panama and Colombia to search
for a negotiated settlement in the area. Both Brazil and
Mexico have expressed their rejection of the current per-

spective in Washington. A leading analyst in Mexico has
stated that: “The tendency to simplify Third World af-
fairs into nothing but negotiating items for the super-
powers and the arrogant exercise of hegemonic power
over zones of influence are intolerable to countries such
as Mexico that aspire to determine their own internal as
well as their own foreign policy”. And Brazil’s foreign
minister declared that: “To reduce Brazil to the role of a
supporting actor does not suit us . . . We are not going
to turn the country into a package in a system of obedient
forces, as if we did not have any wills and needs, as if we
did not have deeply rooted traditions and options.”

The problems faced by the countries of Latin Ameri-
ca are the basis for these positions and reflect a funda-
mental difference in their perception of what their na-
tional interests are vis a vis those of the United States. In
the case of Mexico, the need for negotiation and stability
in the region is a question of fundamental importance.
Here, vital interests mean the need to avoid increasing
pressures on the political and economic structures. A
military buildup in the Caribbean Basin might lead to
argue on the need to increase its own military strength to
cope with challenges to its national security. This will
increasingly undermine the now decreased possibilities
of generating economic growth and will press on the
enormous burden of inequality. The well-known and
often-praised Mexican stability can thus be jeopardized
constituting a major problem for the United States,
which might just be pushing the domino theory into a
self-fulfilling prophesy.

The problems of Central America and the Caribbean
with their increased complexity are calling for a change
in the political approach of American foreign policy in
the region. As one analyst has argued, what is needed is
“more diplomacy and less crisis management.”

Bendesky is a Fulbright Scholar in Residence at the Cen-
ter for Special Studies.

On Observing Internal Standards

Thomas Allen
And

Christi Baggett

The Goodwin-Exxon Awards shall ordinarily be pre-
sented to one student from the sophomore class, one stu-
dent from the junior class, and one student from the
senior class, chosen by a committee made up of students,
faculty and administrative staff, on the basis of his or her
quality of life in the campus community during the pre-
ceding year. The Goodwin-Exxon Award is designed to
recognize qulaities other than unusual accomplishments
in scholarship, leadership, and sports. Its purpose is to
select students who typify the kind of cooperative sup-

port of campus activities and warm, caring relationships

with fellow students which many observers have re-
marked upon as being important elements of the campus
lifestyle at Davidson College. The award shall take the
form both of a plaque recognizing the recipient and of a
cash grant, part of which the individual will contribute
to a charitable cayse of his/her choice.

To receive ‘the Goodwin-Exxon Award, a student
should represent the highest standards of Davidson Col-
lege in character, good sportsmanship, friendliness,
consideration for others, high ethical standards, faith-
fulness to duty, enthusiasm, tolerance, and concern for
the less fortunate.

We object to the Goodwin-Exxon Award. For all its
good intentions, we question its merit because: a) the
cash grant could be used directly for more constructive
purposes; b) fHé:award implies an absolute Afigh Stan-

dard of Character for Davidson College, and c) it implies
that internal standards of character can be observed and
accurately interpreted.

Recognizing character with a gift of money seems
somehow inappropriate. Granted, half of the $500
award is given to the charity of the recipient’s choice,
but could not the whole $500 be channeled by the gran-
tors to a Good Cause? The apparent intention of the
founders is to somehow reward superior character in the
same way that scholarships reward achievements in
academics, leadership, and sports. But whereas scholar-
ships further the recipients’ pursuits, the $500 does not
further the character development of the recipients. Be-
cause of the nature of the qualities recognized (such as
“concern for the less fortunate”), a monetary gift seems
to be incongruous with the honor bestowed, or at least to
serve no purpose.

The selection committee chooses those nominees
who seem to “represent the highest standards of David-
son College.” We reject the implication that the stu-
dents, faculty and administration of Davidson uphold a
collective High Standard, or even a Standard approved
by the majority. Even at a school as small as Davidson,
there are over 1500 possible valid opinions on such qual-
ities as friendliness.and enthusiasm — opinions that are
too different to be boiled down to One. As Pascal said,
“Each man judges everything in terms of his own
being.”

Even if the committee could establish one highest
standard of character, motives (whether based upon the
“highest” standards of character or the “lowest’) are not
necessarily demonstrated by actions. Walking in the
CROP walk could be purely a social activity — the com-
mittee could reward the contribution of a “social walker”
to the CROP cause, but can it justifiably declare that the
contribution is evidence of the walker’s inward “concern

for the less fortunate”? Conversely, the committee will
probably never see, much less evaluate, the actions of
the person who misses the Walk to listen to a distraught
friend.

Even if such judgment is valid, the act of choosing
involves both positive judgment and negative. Because
the Standard is imposed upon Davidson College, each
person who is nor chosen is, by implication, “less” than
the recipient. Whether or not students accept the Stan-
dard of the committee, they are measured to it and
ranked accordingly. The award seems to thrust competi-
tion into the realm of character development; it also
seems to reinforce the tendency of the Davidson commu-
nity to make clear-cut destinctions — the fortunate and
the less fortunate, male and female, the real world and
the ‘subculture of football players”, the eating house
member and the independent, white and black, the ac-
tive and the idle.

Our intention is not to criticize or degrade the reci-
pients themselves, or the intentions of the founders. The
system of peer nominations at least works to eliminate
the most obvious elements of competition. And we do
not imagine that the negative possibilities we have
suggested are the rule, but that they are possibilities the
system fails to recognize.

Therefore, we feel it is presumptuous of the Award
to establish a form of character, a list of “the important
elements of Davidson College according to the remarks
of “many observers.” We feel it is presumptuous of the
Award to discern and quantify such a complex thing as

- character and reward it with a monetary prize. We won-

der whether such an award has any actual value.

Thomas Allen, a sophmore economics major, is from
Wheaton, IL and Christi Baggett is a sophmore English .
major from Thomasville, GA.
