The Honest Act of aSimple Man

When will we test Davidson’s ethics?

He was a grizzly ol’ codger whose endearing grin
made up for his distinct lack of pearly whites. When a
friend and I stopped at his fruit stand by the side of the
road sometime last fall, it struck me that we had en-
tered another world, his world, and that he had proba-
bly been behind that fruit stand selling apples for as far
back as the Blue Ridge could remember.

Although I am from the mountains myself, he had
little means of knowing that, and I could sense the class
difference: our clothes, our speech, a new Datsun vs.
him, the apples, the mountains. Nonetheless, he was
quite friendly and offered us free samples as well as a
good deal of advice on how to differentiate a “cookin’”
apple from one of the “eatin’” variety.

As I was leaving with my treasure (a bag of aromat-
ic Golden Delicious), he stopped me and handed me a
ten-dollar bill that I had accidently overpaid him.
When I expressed grateful surprise, he said something
I hope I'll never forget: “Son, if I was to knowingly
keep this ten dollars 0’ yours, I might just as well be
stealin’ a thousand.”

What that old man had was something I sometimes
think is hard to find anymore. What he had was some-
thing called personal integrity. He had a set of values
that he believed in strongly enough to prevent him from
rationalizing minor infractions, little “white lies” if
you will. “Stealin’ is stealin’,” he might say, and
there’s not a whole lot of difference between keeping
ten dollars of someone else’s money and stealing a for-
tune.

I don’t want to sound like I’m romanticizing moun-
tain folks, because like everywhere else, the mountains
has its share of lousy people. The point is that there are
a few admirable people still around. I will not, howev-
er, immediately number the students of Davidson as
being among that group of really admirable people,
partly because I think we extol our own virtues often

enough.

Moreover, at Davidson it’s easy to be honest; it re-
quires little effort or personal sacrifice. Honesty and
virtue are openly lauded values here, and a Davidson
student would have to be more than a trifle foolish not
to exercise those qualities. Indeed, honesty and per-
sonal expedience are pretty close matches at Davidson,
but as some might not fully appreciate yet, they are not
close matches everywhere.

For many of us, the true test of our personal integri-
ty (or lack thereof) will come after Davidson. For
some, it will be a first encounter with the proverbial
“real world,” and the claim of some — that Davidson is
merely an example of situational ethics — will either
be confirmed or proven false, depending on us.

Of course, some of us may have already gotten a
taste of the real world: high schools where the extolled
virtues are “bull-shitting” and an ability to get “maxim-
imum return for minimum investment,” or maybe min-
imum-wage jobs where the “I am not my brother’s
keeper” law (don’t squeal on co-workers and they
won’t squeal on you) is just as important as the “maxi-
mum return” law is.

Those with real world experience can appreciate
the inherent difficulties in carrying the Davidson ethic
back into mainstream society: it might not be personal-
ly expedient; people will not always respect you for it;
friends, fellow employees will unthinkingly violate
your concept of the Honor Code, for they will have

another. And these people will not necessarily be bad

people. I do not think / was a bad person before J came
to Davidson, and yet my concept of virtue was tem-
pered by a strong dose of pragmatism, and I demon-
strated a real finesse for “playing the game.”

And that is why the honest act of a simple man be-
hind a fruit stand meant so much to me one morning
last fall. He could have justified keeping my money in

several ways: it was my mistake, not his; it was only
ten dollars — I’d probably never notice; besides, I
probably didn’t need it as badly as he did anyway. And
yet he did not justify keeping it.

As a Davidson graduate, that is the way I would
like to be. I daresay that it is the goal of most Davidson
students, ranking right up there with academics. Or at
least I hope it is. It would be bad enough if it weren’t
even without taking into consideration how much we
boast about our Honor Code. But I do truly believe that

_our boasting is founded, and in refutation of my earlier
statement, I do consider Davidson students to be ad-
mirable people. After all, suffering alone does not,
should not, define a virtuous act, and honesty at David-
son is not empty just because it’s easy to be honest
here. But we must nonetheless remember that the true
test has not yet come.

Truly, I would like to think of Davidson as more
than just a priveleged setting for an elite group of peo-
ple; I’d like to think that we can and will carry David-
son ethics with us. And I'd also like to think that those
ethics will be worth something, that through our exam-
ple and our concern we can make a real contribution.
Ultimately, I imagine our goal to be to create a new
‘real world” where honesty and personal expedience
are truly synonymous — like I think they are at David-
son. It is for us to create a world where personal sacri-
fice is not a price paid for personal integrity, because it
shouldn’t have to be hard to be good. Yes, it is a bit
idealistic, but so is Davidson. And anyway, it’s not
like we’ll be out there without any help, for there are
others who hare these common goals. I can think of one
already; he’s an old codger selling apples by the road
somewhere up in the mountains.

Barry EWlledge ‘85 is a mathematics major from
Boone, North Carolina.

(-ointec f. 011 page

that military victory for either side is highly unlikely,
even impossible. In three years of fighting, neither side
has gained any real aadvantage. Yet military victory
appears to be the U.S. objective. Meanwhile, the in-
flux of American arms and military expertise helps es-
calate the war and polarizes the country even further.
Not surprisingly, polarization brings extreme elements
to the fore on both the right and the left. Within the
FDR (Democratic Revolutionary Front), the political
wing of the opposition, moderate democratic and
Christian groups have been losing influence as the war
wears on and anti-American sentiment rises. Rumors
of CIA-backed attempts to topple the Sandinista re-
gime in Nicaragua only add fuel to the anti-American
fire, and increase the likelihood of greater military co-
operation between Cuba, Nicaragua, and the Salvado-
ran opposition. (According to the Jan. 23 New York
Times, U.S. and Honduran forces were scheduled to
hold joint military maneuvers near the Nicaraguan
borders last week) All of Central America is becoming
ominously polarized. “If you don’t have any army,
you’re ignored,” a Honduran politician told the New
York Times, “And only the left and the right have ar-

mies.” President Reagan’s determination to treat Latin
America as an East-West showdown may help to create
a global problem, out of a regional one.

Several members of Congress have proposed scrap-
ping certification and making U.S. aid contingent on
negotiations to end the civil war. Last October, FDR
President Guillermo Ungo again announced the oppo-
sition’s willingness to negotiate. “The political will of
the U.S. is a vital factor in leading to any dialogue,”
Ungo noted. Right-wing Salvadoran President Roberto
D’ Aubuisson called the proposal “the most indescriba-
ble political absurdity.” Apparently, the Reagan Ad-
ministration agreed.

Former Ambassador White contends that U.S. Latin
American policy is crippled by two factors: “fear “of
revolution” and “craving for simplicity.” Revolution is
almost inevitable in a country like Salvador with a long
history of oppression and injustice, White says. Amer-
icans, whose ancestors became guerillas to protest
taxes, not torture, ought to have some understanding
for why Salvadorans would take arms agianst their go-
vernment.

Salvadoran citizens, weary of poltics and terrorized
by violence, flocked to the polls last March to vote for

whoever promised an end to war. To interpret their
vote as wholehearted support for the status quo, and
argue that a guerilla defeat would solve El Salvador’s
problems, is dangerous oversimplification. Forces for
change in El Salvador are not three years old. The more
we alienate even the most moderate of these forces, the
more probable that El Salvador will become another
Cuba—or Vietnam.

It is up to American citizens to demonstrate to Con-
gress that we want a mature, realistic Salvadoran poli-
cy. Otherwise we will continue to make a sham of hu-
man rights and busily proceed on our violent “prog-
ress” to nowhere. The victims will be the Salvadoran

people.
Elizabeth Kiss ’83

Assisted by James Barrat ’83, Jeff Herrin 83, Pete
Jones °83, John Krotchko ’83, James Rozzelle '84,
Debby Williams ’84

NOTE: Letters to Congress protesting U.S. human
rights certification policy in El Salvador will be availa-
ble for signature at Coffee and Cokes next week.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983 11
