14 Friday, October 7, 1983/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Will’s Committee

It may not be quite what former College President Samuel Spencer
had in mind when he called for strict enforcement of self-selection last
June, but Dean of Students Will Terry’s new committee on self-selection
will have the power to enforce self-selection.

The committee would ensure that the freshmen’s rights to self-selec-
tion are upheld. It would have authority to impose sanctions on houses
that abuse the system. The committee will help freshmen understand the
nature of self-selection and the requirements for house membership.

If the committee is as effective in practice as it seems in theory, then
the fraternities and Patterson Court houses will have no choice but to en-
dorse officially a stand on self-selection.

Fraternities that violate the procedure will face a minimum sanction
of written censure and/or a $200 fine. Flagrant violators could have their
houses taken away. Obviously, the on-campus fraternities that want to
maintain their selectivity will either have to move off campus or change
the system, if the committee exercises its full power.

Over the years a number of students have expressed a desire to
change or at least modify Patterson Court’s selection policy. Each year a
new dispute over self-selection has emerged. And each year a new com-
mittee has been formed to alleviate the situation. Though many of the re-
formers had good intentions, few achieved their goals.

Dean Terry’s committee is the first student committee to have the full
backing of the Dean of Students’s office as well as the power to impose
sanctions. Their effectiveness depends on how much influence they wish
to assert. The committee may become another relic, or it could bring
these perennial issues to the surface. Whatever happens, it will certainly
open up the self-selection system.

. \ ,

Sitting Still

__ Davidson is often compared to an ivory tower of academia, rising
above the mainstream of society and concerned only with the more
rarefied realms of the scholarly world. Four years here might be justifi-
able if only this claim were true. Certainly, Davidson suffers from few
cosmopolitan concerns, but we must ask if students use this isolation to
explore anything intellectual, or do they use it just to escape the worka-
day world?

It is easy to come to Davidson and wallow in its reputation as an in-
stitution of learning. But look closely enough, and a distinction emerges
between who pursues learning and who merely exists on the periphery.
True, Davidson is a bit of a netherworld, but detachment can be valu-
able. Professors use the distance to think. Students too often use it to
bridge the high school and corporate worlds in a painless way. In most
cases, it is the professors who pursue and the students who sit on the edge
and watch.

Davidson’s professors are a distinguished lot, perhaps more so than
many students realize. As a truly vibrant group, they rarely fall into the
complacency which many Davidson students cherish and even cultivate.

They are here to teach. But more than learning any theorem or fact,
we can gain the most from them when we absorb their attitudes toward
learning. Though not every Davidson student will become a college pro-
fessor, every graduate will benefit from adopting the notion of learning

for learning’s sake. Spending more than 1,800 hours in a classroom must
be worth more than 36 credits.

/
¢

a Oa Wa a

Hiemah RN

Fraser’s Emotion

To the Editor:

On April 22, 1983, an emotion
(tear?) choked essay written by Mr.
Fraser appeared in The Davidsonian. He
wrote it after an on-campus fraternity
failed to give him oral encouragement. In
it he referred to selectivity as “glorified
discrimination,” and he “invoke[{d] the
Golden Rule.” He “cannot express,” he
wrote, “the pain . . . [he] felt during
those months.” Last week, Mr. Fraser
advocated selectivity as the last hope of
the Court. Would Mr. Fraser subject fu-
ture freshmen to an experience as appar-
ently horrible as his?

Last April, Mr. Fraser claimed that
“selectivity is not in the best interests of
the college community as a whole.” In
“Survival of the Fittest”, he places the

blame for the decline of Patterson Court
on non-selectivity. The College denies
any intention of trying to force the Court
out of business. If the College felt that
Patterson Court was not in the “college
community’s” best interest, the Court
would be closed outright. Would Mr.
Fraser accuse the administration of
lying?

Finally, Mr. Fraser’s assertion last
week that “self-selection could well be
the demise of the Court” is baseless and
without support. Selectivity drove Mr.
Fraser to the Commons and led to last
April’s essay. What if every house was as
selective as, say, KA? How many more
freshmen would stay at the Commons as
upperclassmen?

D. Robert Hollenbeck

Keep Open Stacks

To the Editor:

“Libraries Urged to Close Stacks” is
the lead article in the September 28 issue
of The Chronicle of Higher Education.
The epidemic of book losses due to
thieves has troubled libraries of all sizes.

Davidson has been blessed with an
“open stack” library; you may wander in
the stacks and select any book you wish
without getting prior permission and at
any time the library is open. It’s the way
a library should be run! And it’s the way
_we want to continue to run Davidson’ li-
brary.

Remember; though, that the success

- of an “open stack” library and a library

’ which has no door checks or turnstiles to

go through as you leave depends on one
thing — YOU. THe success of the Honor
System is, perhaps, more visible in the
operation of the Library than nearly any
other place on campus. As those of you
know who have used other academic and
public libraries, few others have this
privilege.

Your support of the Honor System in
the library is crucial. Let’s not have to
“close the stacks” and put checkers at the
door.

Leland M. Park
Library Director
