The Davidsonian / Friday, May 6, 1983 5

Spectre Of Controversey Haunts Court

By ROSS HOLT

As the Committee of 18 went to work
in the fall of 1970, the College discon-
tinued official rush. In response, Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phi
Delta Theta, Kappa Alpha, Sigma Nu,
Kappa Sigma, and Alpha Tau Omega —
under the leadership of Sig-Ep member
Lyman Parrigin — planned and executed
an unofficial rush in the fall of 1970. Par-
rigin and representatives from each par-
ticipating fraternity talked up the unoffi-
cial rush among freshmen, but by De-
cember 11, 1970 when bids were went
out, only four houses still participated.
Although a hall counselor called the rush
“a big flop,” it netted approximately 40
percent of the freshmen.

By the time the fraternities had distri-
buted their unofficial bids, the Commit-
tee of 18 had designed thje guidelines for
self-selection. It planned for freshmen to
be randomly assigned to eat two meals at
a house each term of freshman year. At
the end of spring term, each freshman
would self-select the house of his choice.
In addition, the committee made ar-
rangements to take over the financial af-
fairs of those houses which wished it to
do so.

The committee also presented the
fraternities with four possible plans of
action for reconciling themselves to the
new system, and it laid down a De-
cember 15 deadline for the fraternities’
decisions. The options were: 1) to con-
form to the College plan, retaining na-
tional charter and house; 2) to “go local,”
keeping the house but losing the charter,
3) to keep the charter but give up the
house; 4) to fold.

When the deadline arrived, SAE and
PiKA had elected the first option; Beta
Theta Pi, Kappa Sigm fPi Kappa Phi,
and ATO had chosen to go local; KA, Phi
Gamma Delta, Phi Delt, Sig Ep took op-
tion three; and Sigma Chi opted to fold.
among the fraternities choosing the third
option, KA, Sig Ep, and Fiji planned to
move off campus, while the Phi Delts
chose to wait until the end of the year be-
fore making a final decision. PiKA, in
choosing the first option, announced an
open-door policy in total cooperation
with the College’s new system.

Self-selection Implemented

For better or for worse, self-selection
went into effect in January, 1971, and the
random assignees reported varying de-
grees of acceptance among the houses.
At any rate, by the end of January the
system ssemed to be floundering on the
“shoals of apathy.” The Davidsonian re-
ported that although the system worked
technically, both fraternity members and
freshmen noted a great deal of apathy
from one another. At this early stage,
some fraternity members proposed a
compromise involving a two-tier system,
but the administration quickly rejected
the idea. In an attempt to realign the sys-
tem, Dean of Students Will Terry began
reassigning freshmen on a weekly basis,
and finally he called for an earlier self-
selection operation to alleviate tension
among freshmen and to reduce the finan-
cial strain on thé houses. The process,
completed in early May, seemed to work

well.

Sig Eps Challenge System

As 197] drew to a close, however, a
new challenge to the College’s system
appeared. Sig Ep and Fiji had laid firm
plans to establish themselves off cam-
pus. The Trustees reaffirmed their stand
that no College-sanctioned organization
could operate living and dining facilities
off campus. The Davidson Town Coun-
cil also instituted zoning procedures to
disallow “boarding” facilities within the
town limits. Sig Ep, however, slipped in
before the zoning ordinance went into ef-
fect. With Sig Ep situated on Main Street
and Fiji breaking ground for a lake
house, as well as KA and Phi Delt
threatening to move off, College offi-
cials began to draw up contingencies to
prevent the off-campus fraternities from
competing with the new eating system on
campus.

KA and Phi Delt asked during the
summer of 1971 to be allowed to test the
waters on Patterson Court during the

coming academic year. The two organi-
zations struck a deal with the adminstra-
tion and were allowed to retain their
charters and their houses.

The College system, however, broke
down in November, 1972, with the fail-
ure again of the random assignments.
With the possibility of coeducation
looming ever bigger, though, there was a
consensus that the problems would work
themselves out as the campus changed.
This, coupled with another reasonably
successful self-selection in the spring,
quieted the sporadic criticisms which
cropped up.

During the ’72-73 school year, the
focus of controversy returned to the off-
campus fraternities. Sig Ep held its rush
early in the year. The Student Life Com-
mittee questioned that practice, suggest-
ing that it might deprive some freshmen
of the right to self-selection. Although
the Sig Eps held a position on the SLC,
they elected not to hold a voting position.
Hence, when the Council levied a $100

Given the current situation, do we as acommunity have the imagina-
tion, foresight, and initiative to do more than sit by and wait for total

disintegration?

—Sam Spencer, 1970

It was a very good year. The faculty was mad, the students were
mad, the administration was mad, and the trustees were mad.

—The Davidsonian, 1971

| think our local chapters of Phi Beta Kappa and ODK should be
forced to adopt self-selection. if they refuse, throw ‘em off campus!

—-Phil Davies ‘81

Nothing dealing with this system is eternal.

—Will Terry, 1978

An oral encouragement is really a thinly disguised bid.
—A national fraternity member, 1981

In 1970 College Samuel Spencer singlehandedly reorganized the
Court. Now the court, if it acts decisively, can shape its own future.

—Davidsonian editorial, 1981

His doctrine is the “two-tier” system, a form of snobbery designed to
do exactly as it sounds — divide Davidson into two tiers, upper and

lower.

—Mike Mason ‘83, 1981

“The whole matter has been about the biggest pain-in-the-neck in
my whole 12 years as Dean, because there are so many paradoxes

built into the system.”

—Will Terry, 1983

| am still convinced that self-selection can work with fraternities pre-
sent on the basis of honesty and good faith all-round, but only if the
fraternities want it to work. If this is judged to be impossible, then |
would give up fraternities altogether. This is a solution | would
choose with reluctance, for | know the strong feelings that Davidson
alumni and students have about their fraternity experience. But |
cannot in good faith find justification for college support of a system
under which students are unecessarily damaged.

—Sam Spencer 1983 Convocation speech

SECOND OF TWO PARTS

fine on the organization for every pledge
it initiated, the Sig Eps ignored the cen-
sure, claiming they were not under the
Council’s jurisdiction.

The Rise and Fall of Random House

Additionally, Sig Ep members had
self-selected themselves into an eating
house called Random House. To counter
the monopoly of a house on campus by
the off-campus fraternity, the adminis-
tration enacted a provision requiring that
each Court house must have at least 20
percent non-fraternity members in its
rolls. When the administration executed
that legislation in May, 1973, the Sig Eps
could not meet the requirement and with-
in six months, Random House went
under.

These incidents created a great deal
of bad blood between the Sig Eps and the
administration. With the graduation of
several staunch bid-system supporters,
however, the Sig Eps became more con-
ciliatory, and the controversy eventually
died away.

On campus, the system of self-selec-
tion had, by early 1974, begun to de-
teriorate. The remaining nationals had —
some as early as fall, 1971 — developed
a system in which oral encouragements
were used as bids. Discouragement,
when it occurred, was passive. the
freaternities had circumvented the sys-
tem in spirit, at least, if they had not di-
rectly violated the letter.

But the system worked much as it
does now, and the only complaints arose
in the occasional letter or editorial in The
Davidsonian, No major changes oc-
curred until spring, 1977 when over-
crowding in some houses moved the Pat-
terson Court Council to examine self-
selection. In April, the PCC studied four
proposals: a staggered bid/self-selection
system in which those students not re-
ceiving bids would be placed at the bot-
tom of the self-selection waiting list; a
lottery-by-house system; a proposal to
computerize the current system; and a
system in which a house would fill acer-
tain number of available spots through
self-selection and a certain number
through bids.

The PCC acted upon the first propo-
sal, approving it and sending it to the
CCRL.

The PCC action reopened the old
controversy, and in September, 1977,
the CCRL voted to uphold self-selection
without the PCC alterations.

Oral Encouragements Approved
In 1978 the administration gave its ap-
proval to oral encouragement without
discouragement. In October, 1979, the
CCRL established guidelines that shaped
the Court into the system we know today
by establishing the three-meal minimum
and acquaintance requirements.

Since then, Patterson Court has faded
into and out of the news until this year
when yet more questions have been

raised.
a

Resources consulted in compiling this
history include Student Life Committee
minutes, a Patterson Court history writ-
ten by James Spears in 1974, College Ar-
chivist Chalmers Davidson, and old

Davidsonian issues. “es
