* Union basemeft,) ‘ -

10 Friday, April 29, 1983 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Wildcats Drop Slugfest to UNC-C. 13-12

By BOB BARNES

Davidson dropped a 13-12 decision
to UNCC in baseball Wednesday after-
noon in the wildest game of the season.
The game featured seven different pitch-
ers (five from UNCC), three homeruns,
five. lead changes, one ejection, one
bench-clearing, and one post-game park-
ing lot confrontation.

Scott Redding, making his second
start of the season, gave himself early
support in the first inning with a three-
run, opposite field homer. Scott
Weaver’s sacrifice fly brought in the
fourth run of the inning.

UNCC got back two of the runs with
a homerun of their own and then added
three unearned runs in the fourth to go
ahead 5-4.

The Cats scored another four runs in

the fifth on the strength of RBIs from
Philip Gordon, Weaver, and Redding.
The lead was short lived, however, as
UNCC scored twice in the bottom half of
the inning and added three more runs in
the sixth on James Dickerson’s homer.
The eigth inning provided fireworks
on both sides. Davidson opened the in-
ning with walks to Chip Knox and Keith
Helfant. After two outs, Gordon walked
to load the bases. Weaver then lined a
two-strike single up on the middle to
drive in a pair of runs. All hell broke
loose at the plate as on-deck batter Red-
ding showed his disgust with the UNCC
catcher (who intentionally left his mask
in the baseline) by throwing the mask
over the fence. The umpire immediately
showed his disapproval by throwing
Redding out of the game. The entire

UNCC team charged a lonely Redding at
the plate. No punches were thrown, but
the UNCC catcher somehow managed to
shove Redding and remain in the game.

Jeff McSwain put the mele behind
him and drilled a RBI single to left to
knot the score. Doug Wiley walked on
three balls and Bob Barnes’ infield hit
scored Weaver to put the Cats ahead |2-
Il.

UNCC responded with a pair of runs
in the eigth off reliever Wiley (1-1), but
the Cats were unable to pull ahead in the
ninth.

John Mahoney, Weaver, McSwain,
Redding and Barnes all had two hits
apiece, and Weaver and Redding each
had four RBIs.

Earlier in the week, the Cats split a

home-and-home series ayainst Pfeiffer. -

Men ’s Tennis Opens Tournament

By TIM MCGAUGHEY

The men’s tennis team played tough,
exciting tennis yesterday, winning eight
out of nine matches in the opening round
of the Southern Conference tournament
here at Davidson.

The team won five of six singles
matches and all three doubles matches.
The Cats played tough, pressure tennis
winning five three set matches. Senior
Victor Taylor was ecstatic over the
team’s play. “In the four years I’ve been
here, this is the best that we’ve done on
the first day,” he said. Coach Jeff Frank
said, “This is the best start we’ve had
since we won the tournament in 1973.”
Frank explained that the key to the
team’s success was great play in crucial
three set matches.

Two such victories over Appalachian
State provided crucial points which put
the team in a tie for second place. Lead-
ing the tournament is Furman with 45
points followed by the favored Univer-
sity of Tennessee Cahttanooga and

Davidson tied with 41 points. The Cats

lead two conference opponents, Ap-
palachian State and the Citadel, that they
lost to in the regular season. Both teams
have only 29 points. Far behind are VMI
with | 1 points, East Tennessee and Mar-
shall with 8 points and Western Carolina
with 4 points.

The scoring system gives eight points
for the champ, seven for the runner-up
and so on until the eighth place team re-
ceives one point. Each person plays three
matches and receives points based on the

minimum position that that player can
end up even if that person loses all the
rest of his matches.

The Cats completed the regular sea-
son this week with a final 15-10 record.
During the week the team posted a I- 2
record. Saturday the Cats lost to ASU 5-4
on hard courts. Tuesday the team de-
molished Marshall 9-0 before falling to
regular season champ UTC by the score
of 7-2.

The SC Tournament
through Saturday.

continues

Outing Club Gets Into Wilderness

By EMMA CARNE

For anyone keen to venture out of the
confines of the Davidson campus and
into the great outdoors, the Outing Club
is the ideal means. Funded by the Union
and run by students, the Outing Club or-
ganizes biking trips, mountaineering and
backpacking excursions, as well as more
exotic trips such as white-water rafting.
It also provides a variety of equipment

for free loan, including canoes, back- .

packs, sleeping bags and camping
paraphenalia. (These are available on
Tuesdays and ie at 7-8 pm in the

Tora

people into the “wilderness,” release
them from everyday pressures, and also
provide a valuable educational experi-
ence. The new President, Bob Bruce, is
keen for Davidson students to realize the
potential of the club and make full use of
its many resources. Most outings and ex-
cursions are free or cost a nominal sum,
and they are open to all who are willing to
get out and enjoy themselves in the fresh
air.

This term’s outings have included
biking almost every Saturday and two
backpacking trips. A two-day bike ride is
i -sqheduled for this weekésid, and a whi

Further, the club sponsored the Spring
Frolics scavenger hunt and also or-
ganizes Ultimate Frisbee every Friday
and New Games at weekends.

Bruce plans to arrange for speakers to
come and talk at the meetings next
winter; he also intends to help promote
student environmental awareness and to
send donations to various relevant
charities such as the Greenpeace Founda-
tion.

He has brochures and information for
anybody who is interested in working at
summer camps or learning wilderness
skills from such organizations .as Ouj-._.

By Anderson Scott

In the first game, the visiting Falcons
exploded for eleven runs in the final two
innings to best the Wildcats 16-8. The
Wildcats wasted 14 hits in the loss, in-
cluding three hits by Barnes and two each
by Tim Waters, Mahoney, Redding
(both for extra bases), Knox and Helfant.
One of Waters’ hits was an inside-the-
park homerun in which the Pfeiffer right
fielder lost a catch by running into the
fence. Matt Walker (2-5) struck out five,
but fell victim to seven errors.

In the return trip, Davidson avenged
its loss by knocking off Pfeiffer 8-7.
Mick Smith’s three-run double in the
fifth keyed the win. Mahoney added a 3-
5 performance — good for 3 RBIs — as
did Barnes. Helfant and Redding each
collected doubles in the decisive four-run
eighth inning. Behind some good field-
ing, Barnes picked up his second win ina
row to up his season record to 3-5, des-
pite yielding 13 hits.

The Cats now have a record of 8-19.
The host conference foe Western
Carolina this Saturday.

Women’s
Tennis

Now I7-5

By STEVE SOUD

The women’s tennis team enjoyed a
banner week and enhanced their chances
for a bid to the NCAA Division III na-
tional championships by building their
record to 17-5 with wins over Division |
schools UNCC and Appalachian State.

On Monday they trounced UNCC 7-
2. ‘Nuff said.

Tuesday they stunned the Apps, who
had won the match the last four years,
with a late comeback. At the end of the
singles the match was tied 3-3, and the
first doubles team clouded hopes with a
loss. The other two doubles teams set
about hammering nails in their coffin as

_ they fell behind. They came back to life,

however, and pulled off a thrilling rally
for the 5-4 win.

“It was a very exciting win because
they’re a scholarship program,” Coach
Caroline Brown said. “We usually have
to win in singles, but we won in dou-
bles.”

It was a crucial win, because on
Tuesday Brown will be waiting by the
phone for the national selection commit-
tee to call. After the wins Brown figures,
“IT would have to think our odds are bet-
ter.” -

The squad is already psyched to play
_Furman next Thursday in the regular sea,

‘i ward Bw! or National Sianeli “son* me Ra de 8 the seniors’ last’ hom

i. a. the Outing Club's purpose is to get water rafting | “expedition next weeke

2 ee ORR HR Re OP ES OO We ee ee a at oP Be Be Oe OE ol he eee ae er er ee ee oe oe oe ee ee oe eo 2 ee oe
