Spencer Presided Over a Period of Tra

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

Davidsonian: What are the most important
changes that have happened to Davidson since
you’ve been here?

Spencer: They probably stretch-back well beyond
the fifteen years I’ve been here. Most things like that
have a beginning that goes back a long time, and it’s a
pretty cosmic question. I have to stop and think a min-
ute as to how to organize it. In terms of character of the
place and student body, I think the most obvious
change is co-education. And that is, without a doubt,
within my mind, one of the best things Davidson Col-
lege ever did, when it decided to admit women stu-
dents. Another highly significant change of the same
kind of general magnitude was already underway when
I got here, and that’s what I mean when I say these
things had an early history, and that is the integration of
the College and the acceptance of minority students.
The College had first taken African students and then it
had declared itself open to minority students, minority
American students, in the late sixties, or middle sixties
it was. Then, I think, most traditionally predominantly
white colleges, like Davidson, had a completely false
conception of what would happen when they genuinely
opened their doors to minority students. I think that a
lot of people thought—most of us thought—that mi-
nority students would then flock in, because the door
was now open. Obviously, that didn’t happen. And it
has taken us a long time to build the group of minority
students even up to four or five percent of the student
body. In fact, we’re not up to that point quite yet; we’ re
about four percent, and that is, as you know, far below
the total minority population by percentage of the pop-
ulation.

In terms of curriculum, again, something that went
back into the mid-sixties was the so-called “Blue Sky
Curriculum,” which was a radical change in many
ways from the old one we had had. Much more free-
dom, much more flexibility, than we had had before,
and things like the beginning of the Humanities pro-
gram, the beginning of the Junior Year Abroad pro-
grams, both of which came into being about that time,
during the early to middle sixties, and which have been
built upon during the last ten to fifteen years or so. I
think the success of the Humanities program is ob-
vious. There are a lot of college curriculum changes
that are brought in with great fanfare and then later

they’re gone. Well, that’s not true of the Humanities.

program. It certainly has survived and continued to
flourish, even though I think it also has to be rethought
from time to time, and we're sort f in that process
right now.

In later curriculum changes, the obvious introduc-
tion of the computer, not so much in curriculum yet,
but in terms of the use of the computer in the education-
al program, which we did not have, of course, until
very recently. And of course the kind of changes in the
program that the Sloan Grant is going to bring about,
things that we’re just on the threshold of right now.

The “Blue Sky” curriculum also included the crea-
tion of what is now the Center for Special Studies. It
has gone through quite a metamorphisis over the period
of years, because it began as what was called the Ho-
nors College, and then it was called the Honors Center,
and finally it has gotten to the Center For Special Stu-
dies. It has changed a little bit in character over those
years.

In terms of the non-academic, non-student areas,
like finance, for example. Our trustees, for a long, long
time, have insisted upon a conservative fiscal policy,
operating under a balanced budget. And fortunately
we’ ve been able to continue that, which means that we
have no debt of any kind. And that’s totally unusual in
American colleges today. I’d say the vast majority of
small colleges have at least some kind of bonded in-
debtedness for dormitories and that sort of thing. The
fact that we have no debt is a very healthy kind of situa-
tion because it means that you don’t have to pay out
money in debt service all the time, and with the steep
rise in interest rates of the recent past, a lot of institu-
tions were having to take out a tremendous amount of
the money they took in just to pay for the debt service,
financing those debts.

The other factor in the financial area would be the
continued growth of the endowment, of the permanent
endowment, which has now hit the 30 million mark in
book value or what is, called carrrying value. The
market value goes up and down, depending on the
health of the stock market, but the book value has in-
creased to $30 million. And that of course is important,
because together with the corpus from which we get the
income we get from the Duke Endowment, it means
our effective endowment is up over $50 million.

In terms of what might be considered “general rep-
utation” of the College, I think that the admissions ap-
plications indicate that that too has seen steady growth,
in that we once were a college primarily of the Caroli-

nas then we became almost entirely regional. Now we -

have about 70 percent from the Southeast and 30 per-
cent from outside, so it’s a more of a national institu-
tion than it was in terms of.its reputation with prospec-
tive students. And the same thing can be said with re-

_ gard to foundations. We’ ve had grants from a lot of na-

tional foundations in recent years, indicating that when
they look across the country, and say, “What are the

really good liberal arts tolleges?”, Davidson has

tended to be included in those lists. And I’m talking

about foundations with which we have no natural con-

nection through individuals or the church, or alumni.
What has changed the most since you’ve been

here?

Well, the most striking change would be co-education.

What do you think will change most in the fu-
ture?

I suspect the impact of technology will be the great-
est change from what we’re doing right now. I think a
liberally educafed person in today’s world has got to be
technologically literate.

In light of their approval of a “sliding scale” for
admissions last year, do you think the Trustees are
moving toward sex-blind or equal access admis-
sions?

Not at this point, no. I think that what they were
saying was that “we’re not rigid, we’re not inflexible,”
but at this point we don’t favor a sex-blind policy.

By ROXANNA GUILFORD ’85

In October, 1968, Samuel R. Spencer Jr. began his

presidency at Davidson by: exhorting students to “give
a damn.” During the following 15 years, Dr. Spencer
followed his own advice.

Since 1968, the endowment has grown from $13.8
million to $30.million. Enrollment has increased from
1000 stsudents to 1350. More: significantly, this now
includes women and blacks. During Spencer’s presid-
ency, four new buildings were added to the campus:
the E.H. Little Library,’ Vail-Comons, Mary Irwin

Belk dorm and Peter Knox dorm. In addition, the old ©

library became the Grey College Union and the Martin
Chemistry building got a $1 million facelift. og
Minority recruitment has increased since 1968; and
selt-selection has become a way of life for on-campus
fraternities and houses. Professors no longer
need to profess “Christian committment” to receive te-
nure. International (especially nonwestern) studies

were increasingly emphasized. Exams are now self
scheduled; and ROTC is no longer mandatory.

Such are the changes brought about ‘the College
during the administration of Sam Spencer. A mere list-

‘ing of his deeds, however, is insufficient. To under-_

stand fully the patterns of change and the ensuing ad-
vantages, disadvantages and impacts, one should view
the events in context, starting in 1968 and working up
to the present.
1968-69

Samuel R. Spencer Jr. was installed as president on
Oct. 11, 1968. In an interview in the Sept. 27 David-
sonian, he listed what he considered to be key issues
and concems of his administration: the admissions pol-
icy, the honors college and renovation of dorms. In

- November, he added another concern to his list: coedu-

cation. While he did not'immediately throw his full
support behind the change, he was “sympathetic to the
idea of coeducation.” He also gave priority to placing

_blacks in faculty and staff positions, according to the

- THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983

~ osal to make it voluntary.

Oct. 12, 1968 Charlotte Observer.

In the early part of 1969, the long-term controversy
of compulsory ROTC came:to prominence. In.an April
4 Davidsonian, Spencer came out in favor.of a ROTC |
requirement. Within two weeks, he supported a prop:

1969-70

The following academic year began with study of
various areas of college life. Dr.: Spencer commis-
sioned reports on five topics: social pattersn, church re-
lations, athletics, coeducation, and extra-campus re-
sponsibilities. Aside from the admission of women,
one of the most significant results of the study was the
implementation of self selection in 1970.

Almost as volatile as self selection was the issue of
open dorms. In March, 1970, the Residence Hall Com-
mittee advocated giving each dorm the right to set its
own curfew, with the option of remaining open 24
hours. Dr. Spencer opposed this move, “I just don’t ap-
prove of the idea of girls [sic] staying over night in

The Spenc
