Greenpeace: Livingin Our World
The director speaks of their xkals

By JEFF DEMPSEY ’83

“One thing that I try to do,” says Jon Hinck, head of
the international environmental organization Green-
peace, “is to let people know how exciting and reward-
ing it is to develop a knowledge and understanding of
environmental issues. These questions are often very
central to the major questions of our time and even of
history, and an understanding of the interrelation of
various creatures, the geography, the topography ,and
the chemistry of this world is really exciting. I’d have
to say that five years ago I was as unlikely a candidate
to be an environmental activist as anyone, and perhaps
the thing to be learned from that is that there’s a little bit
of this in everyone.”

Hinck wil) be speaking at Davidson about the prop-
osal now in Congress to start allowing the dumping of
radioactive waste off the North Carolina coast. Green-
peace has worked on this issue both in Europe and in
the U.S. An intensive campaign by Greenpeace last
fall, for example, resulted in the Netherlands announc-
ing that it would stop dumping nuclear waste at sea.

When asked about Greenpeace’s position on the
dumping of toxic waste at sea, Hinck had this to say:
“There might be situations in which dumping is a reas-
onable short-term approach to a waste problem, but
those situations are few and far between because in
general something that is inappropriate for one reason
or another to store on hand poses a substantial hazard to
the ocean.”

“Over and beyond that we face a very serious prob-
lem that once the ocean has become seen as a dumping
ground of choice, in a sort of out of sight out of mind
reaction very serious contaminates will be placed in the
ocean by people who wish to get rid of them and are not
concerned about the environmental hazards. So it is not
fair to take an extremely hard line on this issue because
we do recognize that waste problems have to be dealth
with one way or another; but we are painfully aware
that there is a tremendous risk in allowing the oceans to
be viewed as a waste space.”

The Greenpeace organization began with a small
group of people in Vancouver, British Columbia. The
initial campaign for the group concerned the atmos-
pheric testing of atomic bombs by América and France
in the Pacific. Through various means, including the
taking of vessels into the testing zones in the Pacific,
the Greenpeace people helped bring about an interna-
tional agreement to cease atmospheric testing.

Greenpeace, however, remained a small organiza-
tion until 1975 when the first anti-whaling campaign
was undertaken. In this campaign Greenpeace
members confronted the Russian whaling fleet in the
Pacific and went out in small rubber rafts to get be-
tween the harpooners and the whales. These bold tac-
tics brought an international spotlight on Greenpeace,
and the organization grew rapidly in the wake of this
publicity. The anti-whaling campaign, fueled by par-
tial successes, goes on today within Greenpeace in
hopes of bringing an end to commercial whaling for
good.

When asked what might be the single most inipor-
tant environmental issue today, Jon Hinck replies: “If I
had to choose, I might say two issues stand out —
atomic testing and the increasing overproduction of
toxic waste.”

On the issue of banning all nuclear testing, Hinck
emphasizes that Greenpeace has made it clear from the
beginning that it recognizes that any progress on test-
ing must involve all nations currently active in nuclear
testing. But Hinck feels that a test-ban treaty is politi-
cally feasible and is “distressed to see that it is often the
U.S. that drags its heels on this issue.”

“A test-ban treaty,” says Hinck, “‘is a fruit in arms
control that has been ripening steadily and may reach
the stage where it is overripe. A stumbling block to
arms control is verification [for each side that the other
is complying with the treaty]; a test-ban is absolutely
verifiable since only the smallest atomic test, perhaps
as low as one-tenth of a kiloton of TNT could ever oc-
cur anywhere on the planet without being detected by
modern sesmological instruments. While not ending
the arms race, a test-ban treaty would severely restrict
it.”

As for toxic waste, Hinck comments, “the future of
Greenpeace is to address this question in many differ-
ent ways. On the one hand, Greenpeace spends much
time collecting and compiling information on toxic
wastes in order to understand fully the problems. “It is

important to pursue information not only for today’s
waste but for the problems that have already been
created. If we don’t continue to work aggressively on
this issue, what has already been produced could
plague us tremendously. On the optimistic side, we al-
so know enough now that we can bring this problem
under control. So it’s a double-edged swo

At this stage Greenpeace is concentrating more and
more of its efforts on “research and calm persuasion” in
its work on toxic waste disposal. “But,” Hinck adds,
“we are fairly certain that [this work] will also involve
confrontation with those people who would take waste
and try to get rid of it without considering the conse-
quences.”

At what point then, we asked, does Greenpeace
choose to use tactics such as direct confrontation?
Hinck replies: “Basically, in one degree or another,
Greenpeace has worked on almost every widely recog-
nized environmental problem and in the vast majority
of the cases we have found that reason and common
‘sense can prevail. But there are a substantial number of
times when, unfortunately, there is some economic
pressure or a strong politcal block that makes it some-
what difficult for the appropriate action to be taken.
Then we end up in a situation where we must be willing
to take risks and use the direct approach because, in es-
sence, it is impossible to sit back and let a serious ha-
zard go on unchallenged.”

The Greenpeace boats place themselves bet-
ween modern whalers and their prey.

| .

THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Post OFFICE Box 218, DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036

Subscriptions cos

cost 12.

per year within the United States and its
16, per year elsewhere in North America; 22. in Europe (30. ain epeeded.

Rates for the Far East and Oceania upon request.

18 THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983
