The Davidsonian / Friday, May 6, 1983 9

Photo courtesy Bill Giduz

Transpersonal Association Conference
to Feature Jackson Paintings

By MIGUEL ABREU

Last year Dr. Cecil Burney, a member of the David-
son class of ’72, was elected president of the Interna-
tional Transpersonal Association. He is responsible for
Herb Jackson’s participation in the ITA’s Eight Confer-
ence on the theme of “Individual Transformation and
Universay Responsibility,” which will take place in
Davos, Switzerland from August 27 to September 2.
Burney is an admirer of Herb’s work — among other
things he commissioned a 5’ by 9’ painting by Jackson
called “Spirit Tree” — and sees in it an obvious connec-
tion with the transpersonal orientation. “It embodies the
transpersonal perspective,” he said.

The International Transpersonal Association is a
“scientific organization that unites individuals of differ-
ent nationalities, professions and philosophical or
spiritual preferences who share the orientation . . . that
theré is a fundamental unity underlying all of humanity
and the material world” states the December °82 bulletin
of the ITA.

Further, Burney summed up his image of Jackson
and his art by quoting Heidegger: “A person is neither a
theory nor a process but an opening or a clearing through
which the Absolute can manifest.”

“Jackson is an opening toward the Absolute,” added
Burney.

Above Jackson’s artistic qualities, Burney considers
the artist a “superb organizer.’ When in Davidson, he
witnessed the Print Competition that Jackson put to-
gether and was “impressed by his organizational abili-
ties.” With this in mind he asked Jackson to shape an

exhibition featuring artists whose works embrace the
perspective and concerns of the ITA.

The show will include four of Herb’s paintings from
the “Veronica’s Veil” cycle and a catalogue with a state-
ment by each artist and an introduction by Dr. Roger
Lipsey, a writer for Arts magazine in New York.

The conference, along with the exhibition, will offer
dance, theater, film, and music performances, as well as
special programs on the nuclear crisis and other major
problems of global concern, and, of course, a number of
speeches and presentations from a diverse group of
speakers. Among them are many major world figures
such as former Secretary General of the United Nations
Kurt Waldheim, musicians Herbert von Karajan,
Yehudi Menuhin, Paul Horn, ballet director Maurice
Bejart, author and close friend of C.G. Jung Laurens van
der Post, as well as Maharaja Karan-Singh and Zulu
Sanzoma author and artist Vusamazulu Credo Mutwa.
However, the highlight of the week at what Jackson calls
“a sort of university of the mind” will be the closing
speech by the Dalai Lama.

Jackson is excited about his participation in the con-
ference, for his work has always been closely related to
spiritual matters, and as anartist he is involved in medi-
tation on a regular basis. Finally, Jackson thinks that the
show can be “very impactive because the people who are
interested by the transpersonal don’t think of art.”
Jackson believes that “art offers a different context” and
sees the exhibition as an opportunity to “show that there
are visual paths as well as verbal paths” to express, reach
or communicate with the transpersonal realm.

‘Drawings’ at the Mint:
Nature from the mind

By STEWART CAULEY

Herb Jackson’s show “Drawings.” organized by
the Mint Museum in Charlotte, contains 36 oil crayon
and pencil drawings measuring 76 by 56 centimeters.
It will be open at the Mint until May 9 and will travel,
by 1985, to Springfield, Missouri; Asheville, N.C.;
Columbia, S.C.; Huntsville, Al; Reading, Pa.; Lis-
bon, Portugal; Fayetteville, N.C.; and Edmonton,
Canada.

The pieces in “Drawings” are entirely nonrep-
resentational works. If anything, they suggest nature
viewed at either extreme of size; they could be micro-
scopic or telescopic slices of the world. Their status
as art comes, like that of Jackson Pollock’s later
works, from a purely intuitive reflection of the artist's
mind. Jackson didn’t stop working on any piece until
it was finished. He considers the act of painting
meditiation, and the pieces in his show are the result
of a unified act of meditation. They are not medita-
tions on something but simply meditations; none of
the works judge or depend on anything material ex-
cept, maybe, oil crayon and paper.

Jackson’s interest in the unity of each work is also
present in the show. The show exhibits no progres-
sion or search for something. Each piece is an equal
part of the whole. Jackson says, “A show is like writ-
ing a book; each work is like a chapter.” Dr. Allard,
in her essay for the catalogue, points out that the unity
of the show “demands that the view jettison many
current assumptions about modernist art: for in-
stance, ‘the formal solutions’ to particular composi-
tonal problems presented by the artist’s earlier work
are not a major issue, as in the work of abstract pain-
ters with whom he might be compared. Rather, it is
the experience of the unity of the individual work by
the individual viewer that is crucial here, and what
these dense, breathing surfaces present is the shape of

creative activity made usable and palpable. The crea-
tive act does nat evolve or change; rather it manifests
itself in different ways.”

Like a partially erased and smudged chalkboard,
Jackson’s drawings make sense in a vague, although
not unimportant, way. Every shape fades into
another, every line seems to be undefined at the ends,
and no color is a solid field. Every part of the drawing
fits, in a natural way, into another; color works with
line, form with texture.

The color in each of the drawings is masterful and
by the far the most seductive aspect. Even if the vie-
wer of the drawing is oblivious to the form, the colors
are immediately enjoyable; each somehow works
with the others and produces a glow or mood in real
life that is only glimpsed in the show posters hanging
in Chambers.

On closer examination, the color schemes utilize
every part of the pieces. Often the edges of the paper
are mirrored by a central shape whose color differs
from the border (and even internal shapes are mir-
rored by lines and smaller patches) giving the piece
an uncanny energy that is difficult to explain.

Very quickly Jackson’s works transcend what can
be written about them. They are adventurous and
meaningful because they accent what is purely visual
and not narrative. “Everything that is relevant and ar-
tistically valid in a picture must be visual. . . Where
in practical life we employ other faculties than sight
to complete our fragmentary visual experiences .
in the virtual space of a picture there are no such sup-
porting data. Everything that is given at all is given to
vision. . .” says Suzanne Langer. Jackson’s work
challenges the viewer to abandon practical life and
meditate, to actually experience what is spiritual
about each drawing. His work comes at us like a
paradox: nature from the mind.

