Johnson
Sonia

Did she feel a Joss
of communion?

By MIKE MASON ’83

Even through the cackling interference of a long
distance call, an intense, earnest note sounds often in
Sonia Johnson’s discourse. Half missionary, half he-
retic, she has come to the forefront of a women’s
movement already noted for energy and charisma —
and now, perhaps, a more concise vision as well.

Ms. Johnson was excommunicated from the Mor-
mon Church in 1979, an incident which became some-
thing of a media event and sparked a national admira-
tion for uncompromising conviction.

I was reading a handout I have, the introductory
paragraph of which concludes with what is termed
your “feminist awakening?” Does this denote a gener-
al trend, or a certain moment in time?

Johnson: For me it denotes a moment. One night at
church when a man was speaking about the women’s
movement, I had what I believe was an epiphany. I un-
derstood. After talking about it for all those many
years, I knew exactly, in my bones, what it meant to be
a woman in these times.

It sounds very much like a religious experience of
sorts. Is it tied up for you in religion?

Johnson: Nope — certainly not in any organized
one. They’re all men — made by males, practiced for
males, God is male, and all that. It’s /ike a religious ex-
perience, but, well... .

Perhaps best expressed by a religious vocabulary?
Yes, but not in an orthodox way. Not any estab-
lished religion.

Sonia Johnson authored a book about her experien-
ces with the repression of the Mormon Church, called
From Housewife to Heretic, which was published in
1980. The book’s approach is an autobiographical one;
the narrative simply describes (in a personal way) the
events that shaped her convictions. Much of it con-
cerns her family and frineds, and their reactions to her
outspoken feminism. It is alternately both poignant and
infuriating, and well explains why Ms. Johnson often
has been labeled a radical leader.

Is there anything you miss about life before your
awakening or the excommunication?

Johnson: No. It was a happy, conventional life. I
would never go back to it.

Are your relationships with family and friends bet-
ter now than they were before your views were SO wide-
ly publicized?

Oh yes. They thought if you had these views, soon
you'd start taking drugs, driving fast cars, sleeping
with every man in sight — you know what I mean. But
they’ ve seen that I love my children, have some sense
about what I feel — they know this about me, now.

Last summer, Sonia Johnson embarked on a 37-

day fast in support of the ERA. The move marked her

as something of a maverick in the women’s movement.
While there were many objectives to the seeming sen-
sationalism of the fast, many believe that Ms. Johnson
demonstrated conclusively to the nation that the mo-
mentem of the feminist cause has not diminished ap-
preciably. The added notoriety gave her new rank
among leaders of organizations such as NOW, for
which she ran for President last fall.

What factors do you see as most likely to forestall
the momentum of the women’s movement?

Johnson: Well, its already happened — the defeat
of the ERA. For just a little while, it seemed that the
promise of the Constitution might be fulfilled . . .

The other thing is that the New Right took over.
They spent a lot of money and time to see that the ERA
didn’t pass for that reason (to break feminist momen-
tum) . . . I could almost say Reagan. Period.

You ran for President of NOW last fall, Do you
have any ideas as to why you might have lost? —

Johnson: Oh sure — I was running against the in-
cumbent — sort of. The President then couldn’t win
again because of the by-laws. The person she chose to
run in her stead had been a vice-president, was trained
under her, and was chosen by her. So in a sense, I was
running against an incumbent.

Also, many people perceived that I wanted to
change things, and that’s quite true. There are always
more people in an organization, any organization,
afraid of change, than otherwise. Most were surprised I
made as much headway as I did.

What would you change about NOW, if you could?

Johnson: I'd have them doing the work of the revo-
lution. You see, the goal of the women’s movement is
to change the whole societal structure. What we’ re say-
ing is, the way the whole thing is set up, it’s unethical,

it’s corrupt, it just doesn’t work well. It’s not a good
system. Why would we want it? We want justice for
everybody . . . we’re after a “cultural revolution” — I
hate to use those words — but that’s the idea.

. . . | was saying, let us begin to take the leader-
ship. Women have been reactive all through history —
far too long. It is time to become active. I was per-
ceived as radical — I’m not radical at all. Any man in
his right mind would say the same thing.

What do you think of the proposition that, as they
become emboiled in the compromising pressures of
business and political life, feminist visionaries may
soon become as short-sighted as the men they oppose?

Johnson: Sure, but it is most likely to happen where
there are fewer women. When you're a token you don’t

Women

ma ce IS -T

mR = CO — © Cr ™

Ruth Moose

The literary life brings vit

BY THURSTON HATCHER ’85

Ruth Moose has always had a love for words. Even
when she was a small child growing up in North Caroli-
na foothills, something about the sounds of words read
to her delighted and fascinated her. She now transfers
her love for words onto paper so that others can appre-

ciate what she has to offer. Ruth Moose is, she is proud _

to say, a writer.

Moose has been prominent in this region as a writer
for many- years, and more recently Hier works have
earned national recognition. She recently had a short
story “The Summer Kitchen,” published in Redbook,
and she has also published works in The Nation, Atlan-
tic Monthly, and Yankee magazines. In addition, she
has published three books, and she edits a literature
magazine, The Uwharrie Review.

A graduate of the University of North Carolina at
Charlotte, Moose grew up in the Piedmont area and has
continued to live here. She now lives in a mountain
house in Albemarle with her husband (an artist) and
two sons.

Writing, for Moose, has been a lifelong love, and

? . ‘

12 THE DA

VIDSONIAN/14 January 1983
