6 Friday, March 18, 1983

The Davidsonian

Rusk Scholars Arrive

Davidson Welcomes

wm - -- ve 2

British Invasion

By FRED BROADWELL

The British Invasion has hit Davidson. Every spring
the Rusk Scholars descend on the college, and this year
is certainly no difterent. Sam Roberts, Harriet Davison.
Caroline Loncg, James Rampton, Tom Henry, and
Emma Carne attended St. Paul’s in London, where they
learned of the Rusk Program; Ottoline Leyser, from
Cambridge, rounds out the group of seven.

All the Rusk Scholars will study at either Oxford or
Cambridge next year. They are now in the 9-month wait-
ing period between high school and university.

The desire to do something interesting and different
and the lure of America motivated most of the students to
come to Davidson. “I’ve been living in London all my
life and it was about time to do something different.”
says Roberts. Henry wanted to do something besides
work before he enters Oxford. Good reports from former
Rusk Scholars motivated Rampton, while Ottoline is in-
terested in the work being done in genetics in the U.S.

The Scholars expressed a variety of views on subjects
ranging from the American college system, the future of
England and dating to the lack of dancing at Davidson

Many of the Rusk Scholars’ first experiences at David-
son have been humorous. “Almost everyone has asked
me if | know Prince Charles and Lady Di,” laughs
Loncg. “You know, there are several million peoiple liv-
ing in England,” she continues. Davison adds: “Many
people have commented on my clothes—‘my, isn’t that
a cute outfit,” they say.”

Roberts finds the ‘Davidson three-minute conversa-
tion’ amusing. “People come up, say hello, say they like
my shoes, and then walk off,” he says.

The Scholars are also intrigued by the 35 channels on
televison, Nautilus workouts, the red mud, 6 o’clock
supper and the number of ants.

The students have enjoyed their first week here; they
commend the hospitality of the students and their host
families, the abundance of school facilities and the ef-
tectiveness of the Honor Code. ‘

Rampton comments: “The hospitality here is a reality,
not just a cliché.” Came adds, “I felt comfortable im-
ediately.” Concerning the facilities for students, Davi-
son says, “It’s incredible — ridiculous — so many facili-
ties for only 1400 students.” All the Scholars like the
Honor Code; in England, students undergo intense

1893 Rusk Scholars ( clockwise): Emma Carne,
James Rampton, Sam Roberts, Ottoline Levser,

Tom Henry, Carolina Loncq. Center: Harrict

Davidson

parties.

Stuart Scholars Selected

supervison during their exams.

Mark Steven Sandy

By Duncan Fraser

Last week a committee selected four
recipients and two alternates of Edward
Crosland Stuart Scholarships at David-
son College.

The winners are Michael McElwee
Holt of Burlington (brother of Tony Holt
*83):; Kathleen Mary Micham of Tryon;
Daniel Beasley Murrey of Pulaski. Tenn.
(brother of Mark Murrey °83); and Mark
Steven Sandy of Roanoke, Va. First al-
ternate is John David Fleenor of Knox-
ville, Tenn., and the second alternate is
Jane Elizabeth Dunlap of Charlotte.

The four-year scholarships, based on
Christian commitment, leadership,
academic achievement and a “vigourous
outlook on life” pay for full tuition, fees
room and board. Each scholarship is val-
ued in excess of $33,220.

“It was difficult to choose four schol-
arship recipients from our | 1 outstanding

ida eee >

een Marv Micham

Kathl

finalists,” said Seddon Goode Jr. of
Charlotte, chairman of the scholarship
programs board of directors.

Holt, a senior at Episcopal High
School in Alexandria, Virginia, is the
son of Mr. and Mrs. Ralph M. Holt Jr. of
Burlington, N.C. At Episcopal, Holt has
served as a member of the Honor Com-
mittee, head monitor and captain of the
varsity basketball and lacrosse teams. He
is a member of the Fellowship of Chris-
tian Athletes, the Program Committee
and the Admissions Committee. His
awards include Cum Laude, Rensselaer
Mathematics Award, and the Science
and Kilby Medal for Excellence in
Chemistry.

Murrey, a senior at Giles County
High School, is the son of Dr. and Mrs.
William H. Murrey of Pulaski, Tenn. At
Giles, Murrey is president of the Student

‘Council, president of the Tennessee As-

sociation of Student Councils, president
of the Beta Club, and has been captain of

Daniel Beasley Murrey

the Scholastic Bow! Team his junior and
senior years. He has the top position on
the tennis team, all conference for four
years. He has won awards in English,
Fren., American History, Top Ten Re-
gional Chemistry Contest, Exchange
Club Student of the month and placed
first in the Regional Advanced Math
Contest.
Semi-Finalist.

Micham, a senior at Spartanburg Day
School in Spartanburg, South Carolina,
is daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Philip L.
Micham of Tryon, North Carolina. At
Spartanburg Day School, Micham is
editor of the yearbook and newspaper,
homeroom representative to the Student
Council, secretary of the Junior Council-
World Affairs, and a member of the
French Club. She is manager of the bas-
ketball team and is a member of the field
hockey team. She is a flutist and member
of the French Club. She is a National
Merit Semi-Finalist and has won the

He is also a National Merit

Michael McElwee Holt

Rommill Foundation Award, Colonel
Ergle History Award and High Honor
Roll.

Sandy, a senior at North Cross
School, is th son of Mr. and Mrs. Wil-
liam G. Sandy of Roanoke, Va. At North
Cross, Sandy is president of the Student
Government, class representative to the
Honor Council and vice president of the
National Honor Society. Sandy has let-
tered in varsity lacross, varisty basket-
ball, and is a writer for the school news-
paper. His awards include first Honor
Roll, Virginia Governor’s School, out-
standing = student-VCU — Journalism
Workshop and National Essay Contest
Winner.

The scholarship program is named
for Edward Crosland Stuart, a 1954
Davidson College graduate who died ina
Navy plane crash in 1956. Fundss are
provided by the Edward Crosland Stuart
Foundation of Bartow, Fla., and Stuart’s
fellow Davidson alumni.
