O & C Flection Postponed

By TIM MCGAUGHEY ’83 next week. his student election will
, coincide with SGA elections for Presi-
The Student Government Associa- dent and Vice-president.
tion Senate voted unanimously to re- Yearbook Editor Jim Reese went
schedule elections for the Quips and _ before the Media Board and requested
Cranks Editor until the fourth Tuesday —_ the change. The postponement is neces-
of Spring Term. sary to better fit their year-long sche-
Mark Oldenburg, Chancellor of the | dule. This change postpones editor elec-
SGA, said that the SGA by-laws have _ tions until after certain yearbook dead-
been amended to provide for a spring _ lines have passed. Thus, students will
election for the yearbook editor. Filing have greater opportunity to judge the ef-
date for candidates is the third Tuesday _forts of those candidates for Quips and
of spring and the election will follow the | Cranks editor.

Wildcat
Handbook The Miscellany

ce eet Maat

WW ss? s.asmme™M en +... Smee a ee te -

Frances Palmer and Lindsey Rader, By PAULETTE KURANI 786
running unopposed for the office on a
joint ticket, will edit the Wildcat Hand- Debby Williams and Stewart Cau-

book. The Wildcat Handbook, a publi- _ ley, both juniors, are running together
cation for incoming freshmen, is sent for co-editors of The Miscellany.
out in the summer to give newcomers a ° “We hope to write to various poets
glimpse of the “Davidson Experience” —_and writers and ask for their contribu-
they will face in the fall. “A lot of peo- _tions,” said Debby.. “We will also en-
ple who come here [to Davidson] have _ courage student participation.”
never seen the school,” said Frances. Williams and Cauley are the only
“The Handbook is away forthemtosort candidates running for the position.
of learn their way around.” Cauley is the current editor of The Da-
Frances and Lindsey hope they can _—vidsonian. Williams is responsible for
make their project a successful one. the literary supplement and works on
“The format will be a lot like it was in = Hobart Park. She was editor of her high
years past but we think we’ve got some —_ school literary magazine and co-editor
different and creative ideas that we can _ of the yearbook.

work with . . . I hope it won’t just look The Miscellany, a national literary
like all the past issues but with different | magazine, contains the works of profes-
pictures,” said Frances. sional writers.

Now we can detect a breast
cancer smaller than this dot.

At such an early stage, your chances of living a
long, healthy lite are excellent. But we need
your help. The only proven way to detect a
cancer this small is with a mammogram. A
Mammogram is a low-radiation x-ray of the
breast capable of detecting a cancer long
before a lump can be felt. ff you're over 50, a
mammogram is recommended every year. If
you're between 40 and 50, or have a family
history of breast cancer, consult your doctor.
In addition, of course, continue your regular
self-examinations.

American Cancer Society

THE DAVIDSONIAN.

.

POsT OFFICE Box 218, DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036

Subscriptions cost 12. per year within the United States and its possessions;
16. per year elsewhere in North America; 22. in Europe (30 air-speeded).

Rates for the Far East and Oceania upon request.

Circa 1860 Davidson College commissioned J.W. Orr, a New York engraver, to make a
woodcut of the first Chambers building. Although Orr’s original has been lost, a few
pieces of stationery on which the woodcut adorned the letterhead have been preserved.
This facsimile of the Orr letterhead was made from a letter written by J.M. Potts on 1
August 1863. Louis Orr, a descendent of J.W. Orr, made the contemporary series of
etchings of North Carolina scenes that hang on the main floor of the E.H. Little Library.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

_— iii: pr
