*x* EXTRA «x
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Special Edition

Davidson College, Davidson, NC 28036

Friday, December 2, 1983

Faculty To Make Decision On Semester Move

Tuesday
Vote
Crucial

About 25 faculty members will chal-
lenge the previously approved change to
semesters at a decisive faculty meeting
this Tuesday. This group will introduce a
motion based on a petition now circulat-
ing among the professors condemning
the semester system.

“It’s a very crucial vote,” SGA Presi-
dent Hunter Monroe said. “It’s the last
chance to decide the issue before the Jan-
uary deadline.” The Tuesday meeting is
the last opportunity to decide the issue
before semester implementation would
be delayed until the 1985-86 school year.
Most want to determine the fate of
semesters and not let the controversy
continue another year.

The faculty will consider three op-
tions: to accept the motion to remain on
the present three-course system and re-
tain course credits for graduation re-
quirements; to delay the semester sys-
tem; or to defeat the motion and proceed
with the proposal.

Between 25 and 28 professors have
signed the petition on which the motion
is based. The petition, initiated by art
professor Herb Jackson with support of
others, has gained many supporters.
Jackson said he detected a great deal of
“softening” in the faculty’s resolve since
last year.

The decision lies with the sizable
group of professors who have not com-
mitted to either side. Jackson said the
chance of passing the motion was “hard
to call.”

Jackson felt that the faculty’s attitude
toward semesters has changed since they
have had a chance to examine the pro-
posed system more closely. “Things
change,” Jackson said. “The faculty has
had time to think about things, and as
time passes, they have had time to devel-
op the pros and cons of the system as it
affects the program.”

Many: are daunted by the actual
changeover process. “It’s a major
realignment of the educational system,”
Monroe said. “Even if it were a better
system, it would have to be much better
to merit a change of this magnitude.”

Another factor in changing opinions
was the defeat of credit hours to accom-
pany semesters. Some science profes-
sors, includiong biology professors John
Williamson and David Grant, once fa-
vored semesters but can now see little
benefit in the system. They feel the

By DAN VOORHIS

The SGA voted 17-3 Tuesday to
issue a petition collecting student sig-
natures in favor of the trimester sys-
tem. SGA President Hunter Monroe
will present this petition at this Tues-
day’s upcoming faculty meeting.

The SGA petition reads, “We the
undersigned students want Davidson
College to remain on the trimester sys-
tem.” It was worked out after the SGA
decided its position in favor of semes-
ters by a much narrower margin, 13-8.

The move, pushed by Monroe,
SGA Vice-president Lentz Ivey, and
Senator Beadsie Woo, is designed to
voice student opinion before the facul-
ty vote. “It’s just to get student opinion
on record,” Woo said.

Hoping to influence anyu waver-
ing faculty, Monroe will speak in favor
of trimesters at the meeting backed by

SGA Petitions For Trimesters

what he hopes will be a large majority
of the students’ signatures.

‘| hope the faculty will at least con-
sider our opinion,” Monroe said. “We
felt a petition would be the best way to
present it. Students here are mature
and have considered the relevant facts.
The faculty should recognize this.”

Monroe said the SGA was not ig-
noring students in favor of semesters
but felt that such a majority advocated
trimesters that the SGA must favor it.
He said he would also explain that
many students supported semesters at
the faculty meeting.

“The SGA President, since he is
the only student allowed in the faculty
meeting, should present the prevailing
student opinion,” Monroe said. He felt
the last SGA President, Tim Johnston,
failed to do this, and consequently this
might have affected the faculty’s deci-
sion last year to go to semesters.

“Students shouldn’t get the idea
that the faculty goes out of its way to
ignore student opinion when _ last
year’s president misinformed them on
what students thought,’ Monroe said.

Th SGA, which had been resigned
to the semesters, sought simply t ex-
pand the exam period under the pro-
posed system. When Woo, Monroe,
and Ivey saw opposition rising to the
credit-hour system, they felt they
could, in Woo’s words, “get their foot
in the door.”

Woo said they chose the form of a
petition over last year’s SGA referen-
dum of student opinion because it was
“unambiguous” and could not be mis-
interpreted.

The petition started last Wednes-
day and will be collected next Tues-
day. On that day, the SGA will also set
up a booth in chambers to answer any
questions about the issue.

semester system would only reduce class
time and crowd lab space. But Jackson
felt credit hours would bothy hurt and
help passage of the system.
Background:

Semester Planning Committee

College President Emeritus Samuel
Spencer appointed the Semester Plan-
ning Committee in May, 1982 after a poll
conducted by mathematics professor
Richard Bernard found that a majority of
the faculty would like to examine the
possibility of moving to a semester sys-
tem.

Religion professor Samuel Maloney
chaired the SPC, and its members in-
cluded Bernard, speech professor Jean
Cornell, German professor Hansford
Epes, history professor Peter Krentz,
political science professor Mary
Thornberry, and biology professor John
Williamson. The Committee met eight
times before releasing its report.

The following is a summary of the
SPC’s proposal and suggested calendar:

Each semester would be 15
weeks: 14 weeks of classes and one of
exams.

Classes would meet Monday-
Wednesday-Friday for 50 minutes, or
Tuesday-Thursday for 75 minutes, or
Monday through Friday.

The graduation
would be 32 courses.

The “normal” teaching load
would be five courses per year.

The “normal” student course load
would be four courses per semester.

requirement

The faculty approved an amended
version of the semester proposal by a 60-
33 vote at their October 19, 1982 meet-
ing.

The revised proposal maintained the
current graduation requirement of 36
courses, the “normal” teaching load of
six courses per year, and six credits for
the Humanities program.

The faculty also passed a provision
requiring that the proposal not be im-
plemented before the 1984-85 school
year.

Student Vote

Davidson students overwhelmingly
rejected the SPC’s proposal in an SGA
referendum on November 12, 1982. The
vote was 743-120.

The referendum drew 962 votes as
compared to barely 600 in most SGA
senate elections.

However, when he attended the fac-
ulty’s meeting, SGA President Tim
Johnston defended the semester system
and suggested that the student referen-
dum might hold little meaning since most
students were uninformed on the semes-
ter system.

Johnston was not satisfied with the
semester system as it stood. He wanted to

‘add the credit-hour system to the semes-

ter proposal to alleviate the science de-
partment’s problems.

After the faculty initially approved
the switch to semesters, the calendar and
daily schedule were referred, the, Educa-
tional Policy Committee and the Execu-
tive Committee for adjustment.

The faculty approved the credit-hour
system in principle last May and over-
whelmingly abandoned it on November
8.

The faculty also approved the current
version of the semester calendar last
May.

Adjustments
College Registrar Richard Burts sees the
change to semesters as “a swap with no
improvement.” Registration, he said,
would be conducted only two times per
year, although its complexity would in-
crease.

Transcript forms would have to be re-
designed to accomodate five courses.
Registration sheets would be changed
and simplified to avoid the more than 50
branches that five courses would require
under the current format.

All catalogue listings for next year’s
catalogue must be ready for publication
by January 16, 1984, Burts said. In order
to change to semesters, all courses must
be restructered. Both the EPC and the en-
tire faculty must approve each of these
changes. Course changes were due to the
EPC by December |. The EPC has only
recently begun work on approving
courses.

Blue Sky Background

The faculty adopted and the Trustees ap-
proved the trimester system in the fall of
1967 under the Blue Sky program. The-
Blue Sky committee was organized in the
fall of 1966. The. Blue Sky program was
Davidson's first curriculum overhaul in
40 years.
