Honor Code to Cover Computers

Dr. Hansford Epes’s proposal clarifies computer plagiarism

By JIM CROWE ’83

Every student shall be honor bound
to refrain from cheating (including pla-
giarism). Every student shall be honor
bound to refrain from stealing.

—Davidson Honor Code

Cheating and stealing are strong
words, and their presentation in the Da-
vidson Honor Code is terse and direct.
The strict application of the principles
behind these words in the day-to-day
life of the student at Davidson is a diffi-
cult, though manageable, affair.

The great upsurge of interest in
computer literacy and technology, stim-
ulated by the installation of a completly
new computer system on campus, has
brought new challenges to the elabora-
tion of the principles of the Honor Code.
The concentration of information gener-
ated by students and faculty into one re-
source, the computer, creates the poten-
tial for unauthorized examination or
manipulation of the work of others in a
way unforeseen in the days of mere pen
and paper storage systems.

Computer Services Director Robert
DeSieno said, “It’s acomplex, difficult,
and new issue at Davidson. There is no
clear understanding among the constitu-
ents about the use of the computer and
considerations about the Honor Code.”

DeSieno stated that a major diffi-
culty in discussing the issue is the exist-
ence of several standards by which to

judge honor and computer use. First, he.

pointed to the personal opinion and atti-
tude of each computer user, and of-
fered, “For me, the information that
people store in the computer is private
property, just like the possessions they
have in their dorm rooms are their pri-
vate property.”

Second, DeSieno pointed to com-
puter use standards of the non-academic
world. “Theft in an industry that uses
computers involves the unauthorized
examination, removal, or changing of
information in a computer..,,

Third, DeSieno noted that the un-
derlying standards of the Honor Code
must be taken into account.

Dean of Students Will Terry also al-
luded to the problem of varied personal
experience and opinion in the field of
computer use. “One of the unclear
things is that people come here having
used computers in high school or other
places where the expectations and the
procedures are different. And that’s be-
cause of the presence of the Honor Sys-
tem here.”

Terry said some type of special edu-
cation may be in order in this regard for
all Davidson students. “It may necessi-
tate the kind of attention we give to pla-
giarism in orienting to the Honor Sys-
tem, as far as the freshman class is con-
cerned.,,

Honor Council Chairman Greg
McFayden, commented ‘Students
should be aware that all work done on

The Computer Crush Poses New

Problems

(CPS) — As colleges rush into the com-
puter age, they’re meeting some per-
plexing new-age problems of student
security and crime.

Huge electronic erasures of student
and faculty records have plagued some
campuses, while others struggle with
ways of keeping teacher-student rela-
tionships confidential.

At UCLA, for instance, two 17-
year-olds broke into the university's
files and erased thousands of student
transcripts and instructors’ files stored
there.

Similarly, Lehigh University stu-
dents were “cheated and robbed” of
coursework stored in the Pennsylvania
campus’ main computer when someone
tampered with the machine last year.

One new problem is keeping publi-
cally-available files private.

Last term, for example, Harvard
students tried to convince administra-
tors to regulate access to their electroni-
cally-stored study materials. The uni-
versity allows student tutors to see aca-
demic files of their charges.

While the tutors may have legiti-

mate reasons for looking at certain files,
the students argue their privacy rights
become precarious if the tutors should
misuse them.

Such information is never totally
safe, observers warn.

Guarding the information “is a hu-
man problem, not something caused by
the computer itself,” notes Apple Com-
puters spokesman Stan DeVaugn.

“For every security system, there’s
going to be someone working on a way
to get around it. All students can do is
save everything they do on their own
discs, and be very careful who they give
their passwords to.”

But privacy “cannot be taken, light-
ly,” adds IBM spokesman Bruce
Schimming. “Universities are particu-
larly sensitive to privacy and the con-
cept of being passively observed and
watched by some Big Brother-type sys-
tem.”

“Sure it’s possible to get into some-
one else’s file,” says John Sutton, an Io-
wa State junior who regularly submits
his work electronically to his instruc-
tors. “But it’s just as possible for some-

the computer falls within the boundaries
of the Honor Code. If they don’t, it
should be made clear that it does apply.”

McFayden advocated a broad clari-
fication of the Honor Code. “I'd like to
see something added to the Code, yet I
don’t want any long, drawn-out, intri-
cate statements about computer use.
There’s a certain amount of responsibil-
ity left to the student to use common
sense about these matters.”

Clearly, the Honor Code needs to be
examined and clarified in this regard by
the Student Conduct Council. DeSieno
said, “I think the Honor Code really
works here, and it needs to be broa-
dened to embrace the computer. Once
this is done, the Honor Code will work
even more effectively for the use of the
computer.”

Along these lines, Coordinator for
Academic Computing Hansford Epes
has drafted a proposed text to be added
to the Honor Code. The proposal, a
five-paragraph examination of security
considerations and the computer, strict-
ly treats the User File Directory (UFD)
contents as private property.

The proposal reads, “Information
created by one person is that person’s
property: the information may be a text
for a paper, an algorithm for a computer
program, or data accumulated in any
way. A file directory in the computer is
as much a person’s property as are items
stored in that person’s room, papers
drafted in that person’s notebooks, or

DeSeino works out bugs with Felix Gerdes '83.

one to break into my dorm room and
steal everything.”

Despite the real concerns over se-
curity and the dramatic cases of large-
scale electronic erasures, most student
problems so far seem to concern getting
either too much or too little of the new
technology.

The editor of Toronto’s Erindale
College student paper got too much, al-
most losing his job for refusing to pro-
duce the paper on the school’s new com-
puter system.

confindential data stored in administra- .

tive, faculty or student offices..,,

The proposal contains advisory
warnings to students and faculty to pro-
tect the contents of their UFD’s through
initial naming procedures, passwords,
and other like precautions.

In regard to entering the school’s ad-
ministrative files, the proposal states,
“Any attempt by an unauthorized person
to get into materials on the administra-
tive computer will be viewed with the
same tolerance as attempts to break into
a safe or into the Comptroller’s or Re-
gistrar’s (or other) offices. In other
words, malice of intent will be as-
sumed.”

DeSieno spoke of the proposal, say-
ing “I endorse it. It speaks to the issue.”

Terry commented, “What we will
use this for is more or less like the expla-
nation of plagiarism in the Code, so that
students will know what is expected and
not expected.”

In a recent memo, Epes urged im-
mediate action. “It is very important
that we move soon to clarify the position
of the Honor Code on use of the facili-
ties of the computer. Let us let no more
time slip by.”

DeSieno noted, “We [Computer
Services] have been asking for some ac-
tivity in this area for over a year.”

Terry said that the proposal will be
considered for addition to the Honor
Code by the Student Conduct Council
within the next few weeks.

After arguing the system wasn’t
good or reliable enough to do the job,
the editor finally got to keep his job,
though not before being docked $60 to
make up the cost of producing the paper
the old way.

More typically, students are most
upset about getting too little of the tech-
nology. Lines at campus computers are

From the Davidsonian Archives

often long. At Idaho Stae, “it’s not un- .

usual to have kids lined up three-deep to
use a computer,” says computer Direc-
tor Robert Watts.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983

5
