THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXIll, Number 9

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

riday, November 11, 1983

Faculty Votes To Abandon Credit-Hours System

By DAN VOORHIS

Davidson faculty members voted
overwhelmingly Tuesday to abancon a
proposed credit-hour system in favor of
the present course-credit system when
the College changes to semesters next
fall.

The faculty had approved the credit-
hour proposal in principle May 3 by a
two-thirds majority.

The Educational Policy Committee
(EPC) wrote the credit-hour proposal,
but this motion never reached a vote dur-
ing the meeting. Instead, the faculty
passed a substitute motion for credit

based solely on courses, with the excep-
tion of Humanities which would be
worth one-and-a-half credits per semes-
ter.

Under the defeated credit-hour sys-
tem, courses would be worth three cred-
its because they would meet three hours a
week. Labs would be worth an extra
credit hour per three hours of scheduled
lab work. Most lab courses would be
worth four credit hours and a few five.

The EPC’s proposed system would
have set graduation requirements at 108
credit hours or 36 courses. Grade-point
averages would have been weighted ac-

cording to classes students took.
Opposition to credit hours stemmed
from two basic problems.

' The first centers on the disparity be-
tween time students spend in lab sciences
and in other courses. “The credit-hours
system was designed to recognize the
extra work of a lab course,” said chair-
man of the biology department John Wil-
liamson. Science majors would have to
take either fewer courses for the same
hours or the same number of courses but
more hours as the other majors.

Other objections came from profes-
sors dissatisfied with the way credits

By DAVID McGEE

“I had just got up. I usually lie on
the couch in the living room most of
the day,” said Newtie Johnston, 91, of
107 Main Street in Davidson. A few
seconds after she left her living room at
1:30 p.m. Wednesday, the front end of
a 1973 Buick driven by Donald
Brown, 46, crashed through a double-
brick wall into Johnston’s living room.

“T had gone back to the kitchen.
Then I heard this terrible noise — it
sounded like the roof had blown off or
a bomb,” Johnston said. No one was
seriously hurt in the incident.

Brown, a custodian at Davidson
College, was returning from his lunch
break. He had turned around to look
for a parking place on Concord Road
and was headed toward Main Street.

Brown said he had a seizure caused
by a hepatitis infection he has had for
several years. “It never gives you a
warning,” he said. His foot clamped
down on the accelerator, and after his
car ran the stop light, it jumped the
curb and went airborne for 20 feet be-
fore hitting the house. “The next thing
I remember was somebody pulling me

Carroll Overton

Car Crashes Into House

out of the car,” Brown said.

Brown was released from Hun-
tersville Hospital and Charlotte
Memorial Hospital after treatment for
cuts and bruises. Davidson Police have
charged Brown with a stop light viola-

tion.

Johnston said neither she nor
Brown has much insurance to repair
damages to her house. “It will be a
while before I can move back in,” she
said.

he Fti”

Captain Jackie Hughes examines wrecked Buick

Inside This Week

-Amazons: Flickerball gorgons
complete four-year women’s league
tyranny. Page 5

‘Barber: Theatre department chair-

man has long career at Davidson. Page
6

-Annie and Sue: ATO’s closing
will affect its cooks as well as its mem-
bers. Page 3

‘Sacre Bleu: The soccer tear
takes on Furman in SC championshi:
battle. Page 8

‘Bruce Jackson: Math depar
ment head receives Jefferson Awar
for teaching excellence. Page 3

were assigned to courses. French profes-
sor Everett Jacobus disputed “rewarding
lab hours in sciences but not considering
those other courses that need extra meet-
ings. Credit hours really did not account
for some of the difference,” he said.

Some professors call the credit as-
signed to courses somewhat arbitrary. “It
looked as if we were heading toward con-
flict by equating credit hours with a cer-
tain amount of work,” said Jacobus.

Classics Professor Dirk French
agreed. “It is very difficult to cover edu-
cational value under such a system be-
cause credit hours are such a neutral
equivalent,” he said.

Jacobus said, “Rather than try to be
accountants and try to measure, we
should rely on the professionalism of fac-
ulty members to put together a well-ba-
lanced course. It’s difficult to quantify
the amount of student commitment
needed to pass a course.”

Credit Hour Proponents

Proponents of the credit-hour system
disagree. For them, the hours would pro-
vide some compensation for the extra lab
hours. Williamson said the vote “put us
back to square one. It is important to dif-
ferentiate credit.”

Some speculate that the faculty de-
feated the measure because it wanted to
remove a major obstacle to implement-
ing a semester system. Rejecting credit
hours eliminates many potential prob-
lems, but at the same time, opposing
credit hours might harm the implementa-
tion of semesters. “Probably more
wanted a semester calendar than a semes-
ter calendar and credit hours,” French
said.

Others felt that defeating credit hours
stripped semester system of all its bene-
fits. “The advantages of semesters as
outlined by Maloney’s committe: [to
study the semester system] have disap-
peared and I wondered if the system re-
mains valid. There is wide spread dis-

(Continued on page 4)

SGA, PAC Distribute Evaluation Forms

By DAVID RESNIK

The SGA and the faculty Profes-
sional Affairs Committee (PAC) are both
distributing their own student faculty
evaluation forms this term, although the
College has endorsed no official student
faculty evaluation. — ;

The SGA Senate voted at its October
25 meeting to conduct its own faculty
evaluation after Interim President Frontis
Johnston rejected the SGA’s request to
present the issue to the Trustees.

SGA President Hunter Monroe sent a
letter to the faculty Monday asking them
if they plan to distribute the SGA forms,
some other form, or no form at all. As of
Thursday, 29 profesors had responded to
his letter. Thirteen said they would use
the SGA form; 16 said they would use
some other form.

The SGA Form

The SGA form consists of 20 multi-
ple choice questions and three essay
questions. The multiple choice questions
resemble the Illinois Course Evaluation
System (ICES) questions, and the prose
section is drawn from the PAC form.

The SGA will give the prose section
answers directly to the faculty. The SGA
will tabulate and return the multiple-
choice questions to the faculty in the
Winter term. All the information will be
kept strictly confidential, and all results,
except the professor’s copy, will be des-
troyed when tabulation is complete.

Monroe said the SGA could have
publicized its results, but he felt that such
a move would only destroy rapport be-
tween the students and faculty.

The SGA will also distribute its form

to students whose professors did not dis-
tribute a form. Students can pick up
forms at a table in front of the Chambers
Gallery this Monday from 9 a.m. to 3
p.m.

Monroe encouraged all students to
fill out some kind of evaluation form. “If
not very many students fill out a form,”
Monroe said, “then it will send a mes-
sage to the faculty that students don’t
care [about faculty evaluations].”

Monroe is sending a letter to the
Trustees informing them about student
opinion on the faculty evaluation issue,
though he will not demand any direct ac-
tion.

The PAC Form

PAC Chairman and Religion Profes-
sor Alexander McKelway sent a letter to
(Continued on page 5)

ay
