Masterpiece

(Citizen Kane, [1942], Produced and directed by Orson
Wellesi; screenplay by Herman Mankiewic and Orson
Welles; starring Orson Welles, Joseph Cotten, Everett
Sloane, Agnes Moorehead, Dorothy Comingore, and,
in a bit part at the end, Alan Ladd{!]) 119 minutes, Rat-
ing: ee4%

The greatest movie ever made will be shown Tues-
‘day at 7:30 in Perkins Auditorium courtesy of Dr. En-
gell and his film class. Now, culture lovers, whenever
you’ re sitting around at a party and someone asks you
what your favorite movie is, you can reply in a very
dignified manner, “Citizen Kane.” The film that
you’ ve always heard about but have never seen is simp-
ly brilliant.

Why so great? Well to start with, there’s a plot
that’s as clever as the Bible (and some might contend,
as sacred.) Kane opens with a very spooky shot of a
huge mansion with a big “K” on it. Slowly the camera
enters this building and inside (through the brilliant
cinematography of Gregg Toland) the audience wit-
nesses the death of multi-millionaire, Hearst-like Cha-
rles Foster Kane. Before he dies, however, Kane says
the word Rosebud. The remainder of the film involves
a newsreel reporter’s odyssey into Kane’s life to find
out who Rosebud was, and the ending will leave you
astounded.

Woven into this already fascinating tale is a witty
script by Herman Mankiewicz and Orson Welles. In
ithe past few years, there has been much controversy
over how much of the script Wells actually wrote, but
in the end, it’s his movie. The direction is innovative as
hell, and each frame amazes. Welles uses dissolves,
flashbacks, and depth of field like no director since.
Many of his techniques, such as the revolutionary use
of ceilings in movies seem cliche today, until one re-
members that Citizen Kane was the original cliche. The
acting complements the behind camera talent, and Do-
rothy Comingore is particulary effective as Welles’
naive wife, whose innocence is literally stripped before
our eyes.

After reading this review, you may think that Kane
is a very good “head” film, but it’s also immensely en-
tertaining. There’s romance, intrique, humor, and reat
pathos in the film. Don’t miss Citizen Kane. It’s what
Orson Welles’, indeed the entire film industry’ S career
has hinged on, and even Paul Masson can’t tarnish
that.

Citizen Kane and wife no_1 (Phoebe from. All my
Children).

— Movie Reviews with Morris the Matt

Blazing Celluloid

(Chariots of Fire, [1981], directed by Hugh Hudson;
Screenplay by Colin Welland and Leo Gorcey; Star-
ring Ben Cross, Ian Charleson, Nigel Havers, Alice
Krige, and Ian Holm.) Rating: ****

Chariots of Fire, playing this Friday at Love Audit-
orium is a study in style. Each character, indeed, each
frame of the movie, is a crafted work of art. The film
opens with a luscious shot of some Oxford students
running on an English beach, all set to Vangelis’ spa-
cey, dazzling soundtrack, and immediately the au-
dience is hooked. Indeed, it’s a beautiful film, and
Chariot’s content matches it’s elegance.

The plot comes from the story of two Oxford run-
ners, a devout Scottish missionary, Eric Lidell (bril-
liantly played by Ian Charleson) and a driven subjagat-
ed Jew (a complex role played equally well by Ben
Cross) and their competition in the 1924 Olympics.
Both these actors are newcomers, and their performan-
ces are extraoridinary. Indeed, the only main veteran
performer in the film is Ian Holm as the running coach,
a remarkable character actor who has quite a name in
England.

Colin Welland’s intelligent script subtly criss-
crosses several themes into this atmospheric tale.
Loaded with humanism, the film explores a changing
Europe of the early 1920’s. The viewer is constantly re-
minded of the lost generation—the World War I
era—and the uneasiness felt between the old world and
the new. Director Hudson is refreshingly optomistic
about the future, and by the end, Chariots of Fire
proves to be a moving experience. See it twice.

Wallace Shawn: Aw c’mon André, The Little Prince
and nazis?

Fast Food

(My Dinner With Andre, [1981], Directed by Louis

Malle; Starring Andre Gregory and Wallace Shawn;.

Screenplay by Andre Gregory and Wallace Shawn.) ll0
minutes. Rating:****

My Dinner With Andre, this week’s especially Fine
Film, is playing Wednesday at Love. This unique and
ultimately rewarding film centers entirely around a
dinner conversation between Wally, a befuddled right-
winger, and his friend Andre, a quizzical, neurotic
nonconformist. Andre and Wally examine everything
from electric blankets to the appeal The Little Prince
might have had on the Nazis. Each character is con-

{ _ stantly clashing (in a passive way) and re-establishing

his position. Like Wally, I predict You’ll find your
own opinions on life-and-the-whole-dumb-thing a lot
different after the movie. Notice also the allegory in
Andre. His trip to the restaurant has been regarded as a
journey to hell by some, and the actual cafe is a surreal-
ist’s field day. Cancel all other engagements and see
My Dinner With Andre. It’\1 make you happy.

My Favorite Year: /982’s best movie.

Morris’s Finicky Picks

At the end of each year it is standard film reviewing
procedure to pick the ten best movies of that year. In
keeping with that tradition, here are my picks for ’82:

1. My Favorite Year—Richard Benjamin’s bril-
liant debut film, a funny, sad comedy about growing
up. This movie truly has everything including Peter
O’TYoole at the height of his career as the hilariously
hedonistic movie idol Allan Swann.

2. E.T.-The Extra Terrestrial—An instant classic,
and Steven Spielberg’s best flim to date. Another mo-
vie with a message that manages to be incredibly enter-
taining and genuinely touching.

3. Tootsie—Dustin Hoffman’s first movie in three
years, and it’s well worth the wait. An outrageously
winning comedy in the screwball tradition of the ’30s
that will leave you high on life.

4. The Road Warrior—Perhaps the most exciting
movie ever made. Starring Mel Gibson as the tough-
—no, tougher than nails Max, Warrior makes Smokey
and the Bandit \ook like an Encyclopedia Brittanica
documentary on the mating of the slugs.

5. Diva—Answers the question, “Whatever hap-
pened to New Wave filmmaking? Well, it’s alive and
kicking and the hugely entertaining Diva proves this.

6. An Officer and a Gentleman—Take a love story
that’s as old as The Epic of Gilgamesh, add super direc-
tion, great chemistry between Richard Gere and Debra
Winger, and you get this film. You also get a terrific
movie, both moving and heartwarming.

7. The World According to Garp—tincredibly over-
rated by some, underrated by others, Garp is an ambi-
tious if not always sucessful attempt to transfer John
Irving’s modern classic to film. When it works it’s ter-
rific, and Robin Williams is perfect in the title role.

8. Poltergeist—Part two of Steven Spielberg’s
summer assault on moviegoers, Poltergeist isn’t really
scary but it’s a barrel of fun to watch and the humor is

outrageous.

9. Monty Python Live at the Hollywood Bowl—S-
peaking of outrageous humor, who could resist watch-
ing six men dressed as lumberjacks singing about
women’s clothing and the joys of pressing wild flow-
ers? Or how about Little Red Riding Hood who lives in
a nuclear reactor? The bad boys from England have
done it again.

10. Fitzcarraldo—Werner Herzog’s weakest film
yet good filmmaking, even on its own simplistic terms.
The confused history of Fitzcarraldo is more interest-
ing than the film itself but it’s still worth a look.

P.S.: At the time of this writing I haven’t been able
to see Gandhi, The Verdict, or Eating Raoul, which
I’m sure have some merit. Fans of these films, please
forgive me

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983

