Workshops Return With Vigor

and they leave us with questions.

BY STEPHANIE BRUCK ’84

Questions were answered and questions were
raised last week as the studio theatre season opened.
Karen Baldwin directed Suzann Smith and Roy Fuller
in answering Louis Catron’s question Where Have All
the Lightning Bugs Gone?. A boy who shuns reading
draws a bookwormish girl out of her books and into liv-
ing a series of role-playing games. In each successive
role, they hide a little less of themselves until they are
at ease talking and trusting. The couple is separated by
war, but the oasis reality they created lives on with the
girl as she carries off the boy’s balloon, leaving her
books.

Karen chose the play because, she said, it sketches

‘a sensistive, beautiful relationship in a menacing
world. She gave much of the credit for the play’s quick
pace to her actors, who worked hard on their lines.
Karen edited this 1972 play, taking out some of the
heavy-handed references to the Vietnam war, in order
to keep the script from seeming dated and “to give it a
new light.”

The relationship developed in the play shows the
audience the necessity of creating one’s own beauty in
a world where ugliness surrounds one. The actors bring
across well the possibility of nurturing one’s own beau-
tiful, though fragile, world. One feels at the end of the
play a strong sense of not only the possibility, but the
necessity of creating a private realm to combat despair
in the world.

The Loveliest Afternoon of the Year does not an-
swer any questions; rather, it raises them. With the aid
of good make-up artistry, Loy Thornton and Pat Don-
ley play two people in their sixties. Meeting in a) park
on Sundays, the couple develops a sympathetic rela-
tionship. The man tells outrageous tales about his cruel
wife and her blue perambulator. Then one Sunday the
man declares his feelings for his park-companion, and
just then, his hideous wife shows up and shoots the
couple with her blue perambulator.

In staging, director Doug Vass faced the problem
of overcoming cliché. An absurdist comedy, Loveliest
Afternoon was first produced in 1966 when absurdism
was still avant-garde. However, like other innova-
tions, absurdism has become an established style to-
day. Doug liked this John Guare play but chose to
change the age of the two main characters from around
twenty to over sixty in order to “make the plot less glib
while retaining its absurd nature.” Doug had much
praise for his actors and his production staff. “I felt the
audience enjoyed the play,”.Doug said, “yet it made
them think a litle at the same time.”

The great difficulty for actors and audience in inter-
preting absurdism is that it challenges the traditional
order of theatre: the order of question and resolution
portrayed by imitating life. It is in fact an emotional ex-
perience rather than a rational one, and the success of
this production resulted from the charged atmosphere
that the play created, which sparked an enthusiastic ap-
proval from the audience. _

Be sure to catch tonight’s workshop offerings, Next
and The Insanity of Mary Girard , and next week’s, Io-
nesco’s The Lesson and Sartre’s No Exit.

14

(Continued from p. 14)

Prof. Clough’s lecture quite clearly dealt with one
particular facet of art history — that which deals with
the history of particular works rather than with how
they exemplify the trends of a particular period. It is the
lhatte approach which is emphasiozed undestandably
by art history courses at Davidson. Th is lecture was
interesting to me as an history major concentrating
onEngland, and as someonw avidly interested in such
residues of the British aristocracy as the poeerage and
orders of chivalry.

However,Prof. Clough’s lecture ws technical and
specialized enough to elicit apologies from a faculty
member whoa had all but specifically required hjis
Class to attend. It is prtobable that Prof. Clough’s lec-
ture would have been appreciated more by a group of
professinal art historians than by students less than
with the more technical areas of the field.

The diptych, due to its small size was likely com-
missoned by a fellow della Rovere relative of Urbino to
ornament a private study. The much larger “W Ashing-
ton panel” of St. George is stated by some authorities to
have been a gift of Duke Guidobaldo to King Henry
VII of England. However, this work is known to have
been inthe possession fo the Earls of Shrewsbury and
subsequently of the Earls of Pembroke. Prof. Clough
Suggested that the WAshington Panel was a gift not to
King Henry, but tyo Sir Gilbert Talbot, the Garter
Knight went to invest Guidobaldo with the insignia of
the order. Sir Gilbert ws the secnd son of the second
Earl of Shrewsbury, asnd it is msot probable thea the
pabnel passed to the fourth EAr! after Gilbert’s son
dsied without issue. Whe the seventh Earl died withoi-
ut a male heir, the panel would naturally have passed
to his son-in-law, the third Earl of Pembroke.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983
