Oh No! (tragedy strikes!)

It’s Devo

BECOME A LAWYER'S ASSISTANT.

@ Program approved by American Bar Association.
@ Day or Evening classes available.
@ Employment assistance.

A Representative from The National Center for Paralegal
Training's La ‘s Assistant Program will be 1S
on Tuesday, Feb. 1, from 1:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. at the
Placement Office to meet interested students. For more

Suite 430, Atlanta, Georgia 30326, (404) 266-1060.

Please send me information about a career as a lawyer's
_ assistant. -

Name
ee

City

Phone

la
Yr. Grad.

C1 SPRING DAY C] SUMMER DAY © FALL DAY
Feb. 10-May 13 June 9 - Sept. 6 Sept. 15 - Dec. 20

O SPRING EVE © FALL EVE
Mar. 15 - Sept. 17 Oct. 18 - May 5
THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR [ff

PARALEGAL TRAINING
3376 Peachtree Rd., NE lal
Atlanta, Ga. 30326

404/266-1060 &
ope eee

State Zip

eee

Record Reviews___with Jon Glance

Well, the spudboys from Akron
are back, with their fifth album
(please tell me it isn’t so!). What can
you say about Devo? Just look at the
cover — five vaguely humanheaded
potatoes with polyethylene collars
floating down a road in middle Amer-
ica while a geek in funny glasses
stares primly at you around the
corner. The spuds, the collars, the
gimmicks (hats, clothes, buttons, pic-
tures, 3D glasses, and a Devo E-Z lis-
tening cassette in a never-ending
stream), everything for the express
purpose of spreading the word of De-
vo, and obscuring the diminishing
originality of the music. While their
debut album was really good (with
themes like “Jocko Homo” and
“Whip It” (which ironically brought
Devo fame and fortune and status as a
national joke), this album only brings
us one disco smash and few small
laughs.

The disco smash is “Peek-a-boo!”
and it is catchy and genuinely scary.
With lines like “Peek-a-boo/I can see
you/And I know what you do,” the
song walks the line between cliché
and nonsense before moving to the
point: “Laugh if you want to or say
you don’t care/If you cannot see it you
think its not there/It doesn’t work that
way.” From the constrictive opening
to the horrific laugh over the bounc-
ing groove, the song is a concise

rom

_ (3:01) nonpop statement of what's

bubbling under reality in Akron. The
other amusing cut on the LPs “Speed.
Racer,” from the cartoon of the same
name (remember the Japanese show
with Spridel, Chim-Chim, Trixie,
Speed, and Pops Racer?), in which
four cardboard characters stand
around exclaiming their limited per-
sonality trait(s). There’s Speed Rac-
er, who drives real fast; a Big Pirate
who likes to steal and kill; a Barbie
Doll who’s got brains and likes sex;
and a Doctor who delivers your bill.
This song is more interesting for its
inexorable beat and caricature of life
as a cartoon than for any musical mer-
it, though.

The rest of the LP is a mixed bag
of disco schtick and psuedoprofundi-
ties. The scary thing is that now that
the novelty has worn off, Devo has re-
vealed itself as actually being serious
about all of this. While it was kind of
cute to think about five costumed
spuds from Ohio playing rock star, it
is appalling to think of anyone actu-
ally living like this. It’s like finding
out the class clown is a psycho — ev-
en people on the edge don’t want to
associate with people who have fallen
over it. Devo Incorporated will con-
tinue to grow and sell gimmicks, and
the records will continue to be sold
and played, but the unanswered ques-
tion is: what are we encouraging?

ne Soe
. —— teen TIAN? a —2
=e ( —z
—— a IM a =

Stee ee enna

y ie S
fs fy

Camp Thunderbird

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men
and women who are interested in serving boys and girls
ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and spirit-
ual development. Only those persons who will dedicate
their wholehearted efforts to helping each individual child
develop his or her potential should apply. One must have
ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities.
College students, teachers, and coaches should apply.

CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast
of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member,
specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swim-
ming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the
land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery

and backpacking).

Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping
are extras in our excellent program.

For further information write or call G. William Cli-
mer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50,
Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

