From the Locker Room

OK, folks, the euphoria’s great, but let’s come
back down to earth.

Yes, the Notre Dame win was the greatest in ten
years or so, and yes the fans were great, and yes it was
on national TV, and so on, Even so, the fact of the mat-
ter is that Furman looms dead ahead — Saturday night,
to-be specific.

4,0
fas

As with all truly great athletic contests, there’s no -

humanly possible way to recapture all the emotions of
that game. Only those fans fortunate enough to be there
can ever at all relive it, if only in their imaginations.
The mob scene at the end is gone now, and weightier
matters are with us. Namely Furman, Appalachian,
and just one scant week from tomorrow is the long aw-
aited rematch with UT-C.

Lest we forget, although Davidson’s overall record

is an adequate 6-5, the team’s Southern Conference re-

-cord ts 2-0, tops in the loop. One of those two victories

is a 47-46 squeaker in which a last-ditch Tribus 3-poin-
ter stole the game from Furman’s clutching hands.

The Paladins played as one might expect a Bobby

Knight-style team to play. They played aggressive

man-to-man defense the whole game and gave the
Wildcats a run for their money. Furman may well have
the best front line in the conference, so they are never
to be taken lightly. Now we have to play them again,
and if we throw in a 51-50 near-win against powerful
albeit injury-riddled Clemson, matters become worse.

Top all that off with the Greenville Coliseum, other-
wise known as the Greenville madhouse, and David-
son’s in trouble. How can any decent, moral basketball
team expect to play in the glare of a purple-bedecked
coliseum made worse by at least | ,000 purple blazers?
Purple may well be a royal color, but taken to the
slightest excess it’s not the least bit tactful, and Furman
fans will never be accused of having tact.

So, if you can’t make the trip to Furman Saturday
night, keep in occasional touch with a radio (1110
WBT, game time 8:00) or maybe you’ll want to tune it
in on your Ski-fi.

Tuesday night’s game in Charlotte promises to be a
blast. Already, about 4,000 tickets have been issued,
and it’s high school night to boot, so the crowd could
easily exceed Tuesday night’s 5,031. Regardless of

Saturday’s outcome, the ASU game is of great impor-
tance. The very young Apps, working primarily with
their best recruiting class in some time, are struggling
at 2-4 and desperately seeking a win. If Davidson has
any aspirations to the Southern Conference crown, the
Appalachian game is a must win.

Then, of course, there is the big game is Chattanoo-
ga. Murray Arnold and company have built up quite a
powerhouse over there. After whipping N.C. State and
nearly upsetting no. 6-at-the-time Minnesota last year.
The Mocs are off to a roaring 7-2 start this year. Their
only two losses have been to no. 12 Tennessee by six
points and ho. 18 North Carolina (who?) by seven.
Willie White, last year’s MVP as a sophomore, has
picked up right where he left off, averaging 20 PPG
while shooting at a 60.5 percent clip. Dominique’s “lit-
tle” bro, Geard Wilkins, has been a factor as he is scor-

‘ing 13.7 PPG. Obviously the Cats do not plan a cake-

walk.

So while we savor Tuesday night’s win, let's keep
in mind that the party’s just beginning. As I reminded
you earlier, there are only five games all season that
matter: two wins over VMI to make the tournament,
and the three wins there to make THE tournament.
Let’s keep up the good work.

mi

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davideonian is published Fridays during the schoo!
yeer by the

dé of Davideon College. Address cor-
to: David Box 218, Davidson, NC

28036. Phone 704/882-2000, ext. 148 end 149. Offices lo-

cated on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subecrip-

tions cost $10 per yeer. Advertising retes evailable on
e

7

Stewart Cauley, Editor

David Resnik, News Editor

Steve Soud, Sports Editor

drew Wilson, Features Staff

Jeff Mann, Assistant News Editor
Jeff Dempsey, Features Editor

Ann Meador, Production Editor
Anderson Scott, Photography Editor

d class p ge no. USPS 149.300 1.

Tom Pafford, Executive Editor

Debby Williams, Fine Arts Editor

Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

Jeff Danese, Advertising Managers
Frank Hague

Tom Schilling, Circulation Manager

Scot Myers, Graphics

Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Clare Eckert, Jonathan
Glance, Joe Jaworski, Matt Morris, John Verdi, An-

Boyd Blackburn, Duncan Fraser, Carl Hobson,
Paulette Kurani, Anne Lambert, Tim McGaughey, EI-
odie McMillan, Peggy Pierotti, Mike Tantillo, News
Staff

Kara Gilmore, Scott Huie, Garry Sullivan, Sports Staff

Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, John Lyday, Ginna
McGee, Laura McGee, John Ruppenthal, Photography

Staff

Rob Hollenbeck, Production Staff

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983
