10 Friday, May 6, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Seniors Head For Real World

By TRACY THOMPSON
The Corporate World

Sarah Nock

Math major (with a strong computer
background) Sarah Nock will move to
Marietta to work for Lockheed-Georgia.
Among other things, she will be doing
computer ‘color graphics for top execu-
tives.
Lisa Herard

Fellow math major Lisa Herard will
be going North to work for the National
Security Agency in Washington, D.C.
Her first two years will be mostly school-
ing and training. After that, no secret
message will be safe in this country.

Moral of this story: Major in Math.

(Seniors have accepted jobs with Proctor
and Gamble; Traveler's Insurance;
NCNB; First Union; Guest Quarters; In-
terstate Securities)

Summer Experiences (Internships)

Lyn Bolen

Art history major Lyn Bolen will go
from Charlotte’s Mint Museum to New
York’s Guggenheim for the summer.
Bolen, who last term worked with such
Mint exhibitions as an iron show from
the Victoria and Albert Museum in Lon-
don, will travel to New York to work
with a program called “Learning to Read
Through the Arts,” a joint venture be-
tween the Guggenheim and Rutgers. In
January, Bolen plans to attend Art His-
tory grad school at UVa.

Jean Covell

Jean Covell will spend her summer as
Summer Associate at Armstrong Memo-
rial Presbyterian Church in Gastonia,
N.C. Her duties will include Bible
studies, senior citizens programs, youth
groups and hospital visits. During the
regular minister's month-long vacation,
Covell will preach four times and “may
even have to do funerals.” Next year she
will do social work and her tentative
plans for the future include seminary or a
degree in Christian education.

Missions
Lindsay Biddle
Next year philosophy major Lindsay
Biddle will serve as a Volunteer-in-Mis-

Anderson Scott

Lyn Bolen, Lisa Herard, Mitzi Short, Catherine McMillan, Todd Cowdery,
Lindsay Biddle, Jean Covell

sion to the New Hope Methodist-Pre-
sbyterian Church in North Pole, Alaska.
She will be choir director, youth group
leader, and church secretary. It is her
secret wish to “meet / fall-in-love / marry
/ shack-up with the bushy red-haired man
sawing wood on the Wrigley Spearmint
gum commercials which appear daily
during M*A*S*H.”

Dave Bruns and a host of others

Daye Bruns will spend the summer
working for Bread for the World. After
Christmas he plans to go to Kenya to
teach school. Those planning to join
Bruns in Kenya include James Barrat,
Buck Bradbury, Dave Fleming, Brian
Hamilton, Chuck Hasty, Mike Mason,
Gary McDonald, John Stanback, and
Steve Stine. Also considering this trip
are Cathy Cantwell and Elizabeth
McMillan.

Going West
Economics major Carol Roche is
heading back to Colorado. She'll spend

her summer with the Forest Service in
Summit County.

Jon Lawry and Mark Sheffield are
going cross-country on bicycles. From
June to October, they'll pedal across the
ol’ U.S.A.

Round ‘em up! Elizabeth McMillan,
Stan Hynds, Sandy Fossett, Mary Frye,
and Danny Waddill are going to be cow
hands on the A Bar A Ranch in Wyoming
for the summer. After that, Waddill
plans on using his newly-acquired
wrangler skills to travel with Colin the
Magician (our own C. Shaw Smith, Jr.)
on his tour.

Cute Couples

We have two Davidson couples who
are going to juggle married life with
working or studying together.

After a summer wedding, Gordon
Turnbull and Betsy Thomas ’82 will set-
tle in Nashville, Tennessee. In the fall
they will both start work at the Harpeth
Hall School where Mr. Turnbull will
teach English and Mrs. Turnbull, com-

puters.

August will be a big month for
Richard Davis and Lucy Marshall. After
an August 6 wedding, the Davises will
begin business school at Vanderbilt.

Graduate School

Our graduate school list is impres-
sive! Harvard, Berkeley, Johns Hopkins,
Chapel Hill, etc. We’re going to have
lots of doctors, lawyers and MBAs, as
usual, plus a few going into other fields.
Among them:

Elizabeth Wilson has received a
scholarship to the University of Chicago
to study comparative religions. The Mas-
ters program there is one year, then three
more for a PhD. Wilson plans to teach
after she completes her studies there.

Religion major Chris Marshburn
plans to “double major” at Vanderbilt.
Next fall he will begin a five-year pro-
gram in which he will graduate with a
Masters of Divinity and a Law degree.

Marshburn plans to work on social is-
sues such as poverty and civil rights.

July Experience Lures Teens to Davidson

Davidson College offers a popular program called
“The July Experience” every summer to rising high
school seniors. This year about 75 students will stay on
campus from July 3-29.

The main purpose behind the July Experience is, ac-
cording to Program Director Professor William Hight,
“a look at college an an entire year before they apply.
They can get experiences here they can’t get anywhere
else.”

The students who apply for the four-week course
must have a good academic record and be socially active
as well. These highly motivated, highly intelligent stu-
dents “resemble the Davidson student.” Many, in fact,
do come to Davidson. “It was a super experience, the
reason I came to Davidson,” said sophomore Thurston
Hatcher.

te the 7 hae

The schedule resembles a rigorous Davidson stu-
dent’s, but the July students are strictly supervised by the
staff. They attend the two classes they choose for the
month, for almost three hours. Their study and eating
time is supervised as well. Between 7:30 a.m. and 9
p.m. they have three free hours.

The academics try to challenge the students with reg-
ular classes. Classes range from Essay Writing with En-
glish professor Gill Holland to Star with Physics profes-
sor Robert Manning. Ten courses are offered in all.

Davidson seniors Ed Whitesides, Ed Harlan, Wil-
liam King, Elizabeth Williams, Joyce Robinson; junior
Ester Kim; and sophomores Todd Wiebusch and Alva

-Moore are the student hall counselors this year. The halls

strongly resemble the freshman halls and provide the

unique roommate/hallmate contacts of a college.

Recreation comes provided in large amounts at the
lake and on campus. Students use most campus athletic
facilities. The sports offered, according to the catalogue,
are “team games and tournaments are organized. Baisc
instruction in tennis, fencing, sailing, water skiing and
swimming.”

The academic facilities such as the labs and the li-
brary give the students a good feel for the academic side
of college. The constant mixing of students gives a taste
of the social life. The program schedules many parties,
discos, and movies. Students critique academics, athle-
tics, and the social side of this program at the end of the
term.

The whole experience, excluding books and per-
sonal expenses, comes to $775. The academics students
take here cannot be transferred.
