Cont’d. From ‘Favored Paladins Fall, 58-52’

win on the road, and in the long run may
be of far greater magnitude than it ap-
pears now.

Davidson Assistant Coach Jim Bak-
er explained, “In order to be in conten-
tion for the Southern Conference cham-
pionship, we feel we need to win at least
one game on the road against an upper
division team.” Upper-division _in-
cludes Furman, along with UT-C, East
Tennessee, and Marshall.

It was a game of delicate team
psyches. The Wildcats were coming off
the huge upset of Notre Dame, and after
spending a few days on Cloud Ten, they

would have to come back down and get
ready for Furman. It wouldn’t be easy.
The Paladins, on the other hand, were
coming off a heartbreaking 51-50 loss to
Clemson when coupled with their loss
to Davidson on Cliff Tribus three-poin-
ter in the waning seconds, had a perfect
opportunity to exact double-edged ven-
geance before 3,648 of the home folks.
Thus the betting line was Furman by
Six.

Give Bobby Hussey credit for get-
ting his players ready for the game, for
that was half the battle.

If the Cats were going to come out
flat, as expected, it would have shown
in the opening minutes. In spite of a

Grapplers Off to

George Singleton dunk (the result of a
breakdown in the press) that gave the
Paladins a 2-1! lead early, the Wildcats
had few problems. In five minutes of
play they built up a 10-4 lead, without
the help of Kenny Wilson who was
benched with two early fouls.

By late in the half, the Paladins
clawed back to pull within one, 23-22,
but after a Davidson time out Tribus
gave the Wildcats a little more breathing
room with an 18-footer from the left
baseline. Kenny Wilson had returned to
the lineup, and he opened up the lead
more, 27-22, with a steal and subse-
quent layup.

After Furman scored another
basket, to pull within three, freshman
forward Greg Spurling scored and was
fouled, moving the Paladin’s to within
one, 27-26 with 20 seconds left. He
missed the free throw, and when Tribus
got the ball on the other end of the court,
he scored as he was fouled with 5 se-
conds left. He converted his free throw,
and after Singleton missed a last second
shot, Davidson took the locker room
with a 30-26 lead.

The second half opened on a dunk,
but this time Kenny Wilson was scoring
for Davidson. After that the Wildcats
rattled off six more unanswered points,

Poaring Start

By SCOTT BEAVER ’84

Davidson’s grapplers got off to a
Start that “really pleased” first year
coach Vince Arduini. The Cat wrestlers
competed in the Catawba tournament on
Saturday and won two first places, one
second place, and one third place, One
of those first place finishers was 177
pound junior Tom Hissam, who was
named the tournament’s most outstand-
ing wrestler.

“This was a great way to begin the
season,” said Arduini. “These guys did
a great job in the off-season getting in
shape, and worked really hard in prac-
tice. Co-captains Chris Tiernan and
John Breidenstine did a great job, and
their leadership was probably the im-
portant thing in getting us ready.”

Hissam, who joined the team last
season, won both of his matches by fall.
“Tom was great in the tournament, and
he could have an outstanding year,” said
Arduini.

Tom Oddo, a sophomore in the 134
pound class scored Davidson’s other
first place finish. Arduini termed Od-
do’s adjustment to a higher weight class
“encouraging.”

Junior John Breidenstine, wrestling
at 142 pounds, picked up Davidson’s
second place finish. Arduini was “real
pleased with John, because he was

_ wrestling in a tough weight class.”

Sophomore Mike Keeley and fresh-
man Bill Oldham pounded the mats for
third place finishes in the 150 and 158
pound classes respectively. Freshman
Clay Carrol also grappled at 158, and he
lost in the consolation finals in double
overtime, finishing with a 1-2 mark, his
victory coming by pin. “Having two
freshmen in the same weight class is a
problem, but a nice one for a coach to
have,” said Arduini. “We can only
wrestle one at a time, and that will be
tough to work out, since somebody will
have to sit.”

The first Southern Conference ac-
tion for the mat men was a tri-meet
Wednesday night in which Davidson
lost to VMI but beat Furman. The Wild-
cat matmen face Elon and Livingston in
a tri-meet tomorrow at 1:00.

“The Southern Conference is a great
wrestling conference,” says Coach Ar-
duini, “and we’re looking forward to a
good season. I don’t know where we’ ll
finish, and I won’t speculate on whether
or not we'll have X amount of wins, but
if the guys just wrestle up to their poten-
tial and have a good time doing it, then
that will make the season a success,”
said Arduini. “We do have a few guys
who could challenge in the conference,
but it’s too early to tell.”

They'll be further tested tomorrow
when they face Elon and Livingstone in
a tri-meet tomorrow at 1:00.

to build a 38-26 lead. The double digit
lead didn’t last long, but the Wildcats
maintained a solid lead for the next five
minutes. Then at the 12:56 point, Brian
Rowan, who had been playing extreme-
ly well, came out with his fourth foul.
Freshman Jim McConkey replaced him.

About midway through the half a
Rich Wilson dunk moved the lead out to
47-38, but with 8:48 left and the margin
back down to four points (47-43) he was
sidelined with his fourth foul. Junior
Tom Franz replaced him.

Thirty seconds later Tribus gave
Davidson another six point lead, 49-43,
with a jumper. Thereafter, however, the
Paladins fought back to close the gap.
Freshman guard Dave Conrady hit a
three-pointer which closed the gap to
§2-50 with 5:57 left, and Davidson
called time out.

The Cats came back at a slower pace
as Tribus scored again off a Tom Franz
pass, to go up 54-50. Conrady walked
with 3:20 remaining, and the seniors
Rowan and Wilson returned to the li-
neup. Rowan, however, lasted only
thirty-five seconds, as he fouled George
Singleton for his fifth personal. Singlet-
on cann both his free throws to cut the
margin back down to two, 54-52, with
2:45 left.

Saturday—

Monday—

Two Days of
Great Athletics:

Wrestling vs. Elon and
Livingstone

Women’s Basketball
vs. Meredith

Men’s Basketball vs.
East Tennessee

The Wildcats worked the ball delib-
erately, but Tribus forced a turnaround
jumper that missed, but McConkey
came up with the rebound. He got the
ball out to the perimeter, where Richard
Wilson was fouled with it. He went to
the line for the one-and-one with a two-
point Davidson lead and 0:26 left. He
hit the front end, missed the second
shot, but in Notre Dame tradition the re-
bound went out off Furman.

Singleton fouled Carroll with 0:18
left, but he, too, could hit only the front
end of the one-and-one. That made it
56-52, and victory seemed certain. It
was certain when Conrady forced a
shot, Richard Wilson rebounded, made
a great outlet pass to Tribus, who got ev-
ery last bit of a two-handed dunk to end
the game, 58-52.

Notes: Tribus was game-high scor-
er with 18. Kenny Wilson scored 10 in
28 minutes, Richard Wilson 10 in 34,
and Bran Rowan 11 in 27. Rowan, who
also tied with Singleton for game-high
rebounds (7), played superbly and may
be returning to pre-season form. John
Carroll passed out 5 assists, and the
team forced 16 steals. McConkey
played well despite one glaring fresh-
man mistake. Gerry Born and Rafael
Hernandez also played well in the win.

le

1:00

4:00

7:30

BARRY DOWD

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983
