Admissions More Selective

‘admissions are not blind to any aspect of the applicant’

By MIKE TANTILLO ’85

Director of Admissions John Grif-
fith projects that Davidson’s admissions
will become more selective than ever
next year.

“Last year we accepted 38 percent
of our applicants,” said Griffith, “This
year I project that we will be able to ac-
cept 30 percent of our applicants.”

The Admissions Office has received
about 400 applications more than it had
at this time last year. As of Jan. 25, the
admissions office had received applica-
tions from 853 males and 689 females
for a total of 1542 applications. On Jan.
25, 1982, 650 males and 466 females
totalled 1125 applicants.

The deadline for applications is Feb-
ruary 15.

_ Dr. Griffith attributes the sharp in-
crease in the number of applicants to a

new brochure and the efforts of Alumni
Recruiting offices in 16 southern cities.
Furthermore, he said, Davidson’s repu-
tation has been bolstered by the Sloan
Grant, the MacArthur Grant, and events
such as the Zubin Mehta concert, which
draw national attention.

The Cass & Birnbaum Comparative
Guide to American Colleges, 1981
classifies Davidson as a Highly Selec-
tive college. Only the “Most Selective”
schools are more selective than David-
son, according to Cass & Birnbaum, an
independent evaluating agency. Duke
University is the only other school in the
South rated as “Highly Selective,” no
southern schools are rated as “Most Se-
lective.” Dr. Griffith says that after ac-
cepting next year’s freshmen, Davidson
“could possibly move into the “Most
Selective category.

Dr. Griffith says, “this year we have

the largest number of black applicants,
and therefore are hoping for a good
yield. Also, the number of other minori-
ty applicants, such as Orientals and His-
panics, is up this year.”

Turning to the issue of men and
women at Davidson, Dr. Griffith said
“the male to female ration in the student
body will range between 60-40 and
6614-334 as prescribed by the Trus-
tees last February. At this point in
time, from the view of the Trustees,
the proper male-female balance is in
this range. This policy will be reevalu-
ated in terms of national trends and
Davidson’s applicant pool as needed.”

“As a residential college, the
male-female ratio is important, espe-
cially in terms of social and dormitory
life. Sex blind admission would be
wrong; our admissions are not blind to
any aspect of the applicant.”

LUV

DAVIDSON SUNBATHERS!
SPRINGBREAK FLORIDA trip to FT.
LAUDERDALE OR KEY WEST: 8
beach days, 7 nights lodging in fine hot-
els “on the strip”, plus nightly parties
from $125.

Call 800-368-2006 TOLL-FREE! Ask
for Annette. Go with friends or organize
a small group and sunbathe for FREE!

LEISURE
UNLIMITED
VACATIONS

Morehead~
Medical
Center

Licensed.
OB-GYN

Specialist

T Worried About
Being Pregnant?
We Care. Care.

Free Pregnancy Testing Daily
(No appointment necessary)

For Answers And
Action On

e > Boartion

All Calls Strictly Configergig,
fa ° if

1351 Durwood Drive, Charlotte, NC 28204
Hours 8 - € Mon. - Fri., 7 -.3 Sat.

Ser aS

Camp Thunderbird

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men
and women who are interested in serving boys and girls
ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and spirit-
ual development. Only those persons who will dedicate
their wholehearted efforts to helping each individual child
develop his or her potential should apply. One must have
ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities.
College students, teachers, and coaches should apply.

CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast

of Charlotte, N.C.,

is an ACA accredited camp member,

specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swim-
ming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the
land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery

and backpacking).

Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping
are extras in our excellent program.

For further information write or call G. William Cli-
mer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50,
Clover, $.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

THE, PAVIDSONIAN/28 Jan PUALY.1983
