Money and
Culture

Last week, when the Davidsonian was scheduling
an interview with Zubin Metha, we were reminded of
the neighborly relationship of money and culture.
Looking at Mr. Metha’s minute by minute itinerary for
his stay at Davidson made us feel sorry for the man.
Between rehersals, lucheons, interviews, tours and
concerts he had little time to be a human being. Al-
though by all accounts Mr. and Mrs. Metha are warm,
friendly people who seldom tire of shaking hands, it
must be taxing to take a weekend off from a yearly
schedule of 150 concerts in two countries and do a be-
nefit with all the trappings. Although the Methas seem
altruistic in their desire to help young musicans and are
here, more or less as a favor to Joseph Robinson, the
bottom line to them and everyone involved is money.
No, not personal monetary gain but the hope that many
people will donate money to the Don Plott Scholarship
Endowment.

This scholarship fund is to provide for music train-
ing that can not be received at Davidson. Hopefully the
fund will differ from the Harper Scholarships which
only supplements a music student’s tuition during his
stay at Davidson. The Plott Scholarships should be
used to send students of any major to where he needs
training. Joseph Robinson and William Workmen
were both English majors at Davidson. David Edwards
’63 was Robinson’s roommate at Davidson and played
trumpet in the benefit concert. He is now an attorneyin
Chapel Hill. All of these men were liberal arts majors
not fine arts majors. Davidson provided them with
more of a background in the humanities than in music,
something few musicans have.

Two of Robinson’s students from the Manhatten
School of Music stayed at Davidson over the weekend.
Their education is very different from that of their
teacher. Instead of studying literature and the sciences
every night to supplement their musical studies, like
Davidson music majors do, they aim only to play the
oboe. They probably play better than anybody at Da-
vidson but what happens if they do not beconie per-
formers. They have very little to fall back on. While it
is hard to get into law school from the Conservatory it
is equally difficult to go from Davidson to a career such
as Robinson or Workman’s. Hopefully through the
Plott Scholarships Davidson can offer young musicans
the opportunity of a liberal arts education as well as the
valuable experience of studying performance away
from Davidson.

Bringing Mr. Mehta to campus has not given Da-
vidson culture. It has provided the money to send stu-
dents to receive music instruction they can not receive
here.

Town and Gown.

As students, our haunts at Davidson are remarka-
bly predictable. Dorms, eating houses, Chambers, the
Union and labs are our most regular habitats and meet-
ing places. Outside of ten o’clock walks to the Post Of-
fice and, once in a while the Village Store, we are gen-
erally synonymous with the geography of the campus.
As a whole, students know little about the town of Da-
vidson. We ought to know more.

When an eating house or campus club is preparing
to do a service project for the town, it is hard to find a
student who knows enough about the town of Davidson
to suggest an appropiate and effective service. That is,
it was hard to find someone until the Y-Student Service
Corps took on this problem. .

The Y-SSC has taken notice of the lack of knowl-
edge on the campus. Pete Skillern, the campus-com-

munity liason for the Y-SSC and Doug Ammar, presi-
dent of the Y-SSC are the people to see if you want to
schedule a service project in the town. They have both
meet with most of the leaders of the town and campus
and can accurately access the needs and resources of
both. The Y-SSC has made itself a center for coordi-
nating Campus service projects in the town. As a wide
reaching service organization, the Y is perfect to help
coordinate service.

It isn’t hard to find people in Davidson who want
and need organized help. From step tutoring and visit-
ing senior citizens to helping the community center
provide 85-100 free hot lunches everyday, Davidson
students can put their education to work immediately.
By getting the town and gown together and providing a
knowledgable community liason, the Y-SSC has done
both a service.

But Army ROTC can help—two
ways!

First, you can apply for an Army
ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition,
books, and supplies, and pays you /“%
up to $1,000 each school year it’s
in effect.

But even if you're mot a
scholarship recipient, ;
ROTC can still help iA“
with eanciat assis- Ai
tance—upto$1,000 A#fiAb
a year for your A
last two years in
the program.

For more
information,
contact your
Professor of

Capt. Albert
Brauer

Belk Dorm (ext. 170)

THE DAV IDSONTA

‘The Weebly Newspaper of Devideon College

Vio Gawtdssalan la gubiahed Pitdsys Gusting tho cates)
yaer by the @udanta of Osvidsen Codege. A@Srcz2 co7-
cwapendanso to. Desidsoalen, Oex 218, Davideca, (56
[BRBA, Fhana PO2(EE2-BS80. oat. 140 and 160. Offtaza [o-
cated en tho tap @ Seudena Ualsa. Sekeciip-
tises cast 610 ger year. Advertiaing piace cvallabla ca
Cog@uem. Bessad caso postago co. UEFA 140280 1

Stewart Cauley, Editor

David Resnik, News. Edisor
Jeff Mann, Assistans Mews Editor
Jeff Dempsey, Features Editor ,
Steve Seud, Sports Editor
‘Ann Meador, Production Editor
Anderson Scott, Photography Editor

20 __. -THE DAVIDSONIAN/28 January 1983

Tom Pafford, kxecutive Editor

EVEN STRAIGHT A'S CAN'T
HELP IF YOU FLUNK TUITION.

Today, the toughest thing about going
to college is finding the money to pay for it.

Three year scholarship deadline April 15th

Fred Broadwell, Brien Butter, Clare Eckert, Jonathan

‘Glance, Joe Jaworski, Matt Morris, John Verdi, An-

drew. Wilson, Features Steff

Debby Willtams., Fine Arts Editor
Lentz Ivey. Business Manager
Jeff Danese, Advertising Manacers
Frank Hague
Tom Schilling. Circulation Manager

Scot Myers, Graphics

‘Boyd Blackburn, Duncan Fraser, Carl Hobson,
Paulette Kurani, Anne Lambert, Tim McGaughey, El-
odie McMillan, Peggy Pierotti, Mike Tantillo, News
Staff

Kara Gilmore, Scott Huie, Garry Sultivan, Sports Staff

Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, John Lyday, Giana
Suaff

Rob Hollenbeck, Production Staff
