4 Friday, October 14, 1983/The Davidsonian

Requirements Strengthen Liberal Arts Education

By MARSHALL DODGE

Davidson's academic requirements
reach into almost every department on
campus. To receive a degree from
Davidson College a student must com-
plete three courses each in the four areas
of study: Language, Literature, and Fine
Arts; Philosophy and Religion; Natural
Science and Mathematics; and Social
Sciences.

Freshman English, foreign language
courses, and four physical education
courses are required: two water-related
sports, a team sport, and a lifetime sport.
Physical Education classes must be com-
pleted before the junior year. Beyond
these requirements all majors have a set
schedule of courses. The flexibility left
to a student includes what major he will
pursue and what foreign language he will
take.

Vice-president for Academic Affairs
and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zim-
mermann was unavailable for co:mment
about the College’s requirement poli-
cies. Interim President trontis Johnston
said that the various departments propose
all new courses and requirements for
majors; all are ratified by the entire facul-
ty’s approval.

“I think the faculty feels you need a
broad education in the liberal arts, or
they leave you a relatively ignorant per-
son. Most of us may prefer one field over
another . . . but we are not allowed to
concentrate exclusively on that [field],”
Johnston said.

Recalling his days as a student at
Davidson, Dean of Students Will Terry
said the only electives then amounted to
which term a student would take his re-
quirements.

The Blue Sky Program of 1967,
which will dominate Davidson's cur-
riculum until next year, left room for
more electives and academic freedom
but introduced the area requirements as a
liberal arts guide. These divisions in-

Sophomore Amy Blackstock sweats it out in the Chemistry Library

sured “that students have some breadth
of knowledge in tuus ai as.” Terry said.
“The Blue Sky Program gave more flexi-
bility to the Davidson —cur-
riculum. . . (and) insured that students
got a smattering of the liberal arts.”
Athletic Requirements

Athletic Department Chairman Sterl-
ing Martin quoted the History and Pur-
pose of Davidson College in the College
Catalogue when asked about the athletic
requirements. The philosophical justifi-
cation of these requirements at Davidson
has always been mens sana in corpore
sano: a sound mind in a sound body.
“Any liberal arts college is justified in re-
quiring courses in (physical education) ,”
Martin said.

The water sports “give a person a
feeling of his limitations in the water, if
they don’t teach him how to swim.” he
said. “A part of athletics is wrapped up in
the cogperative experience,” Martin said
about team sports. He also feels David-
son does a service to its students by offer-
ing instruction in lifetime sports. Rather
than pay huge fees to learn them, “‘it’s to

NEW 237 Catawba Ave.
HAIR DESIGNERS ‘ Comets
n rear m
STUDIO Eneruy itiraned
Stylist Rachael Elliott
No Appointment Necessary Call 882-3129 or 892-4962

KING OF PIZZA

Mooresville

} hh > Win :
Weecsged J!

FAMILY NIGHT

Every Monday Night
5 To 10

PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE

FREE

er re

your benefit to learn a [lifetime] sport
now,” he said.

Students can receive physical educa-
tion credit three ways, through taking
classes, passing a proficiency test, or re-
ceiving credit through an outside agency,
such as the Red Cross. ROTC has a
working agreement with the athletic de-
partment where certain ROTC classes
offer credit. Martin stated, “It’s a rela-
tively minor requirement when you think
about the past history of Davidson.” Mr.
Martin said Davidson formerly placed
students with a test. The last test given
placed 40 percent of freshmen in the so-
called “spastic class.” Beyond the strin-
gent gym classes ROTC was also man-
datory.

Blue Sky Program

The Blue Sky Program, instituted in
1967, radically altered the academic and
athletic structure of Davidson's cur-
riculum. A quote from the “Progress Re-
port of the Blue Sky Committee” (May
1>, 1967), states: “. . . a thorough re-
study of our academic program reflects
the long-standing conviction of many of

Peggy Pierotti

us [faculty] that it is time for a change.”
The change included various alterations
such as the area requirements with exams
(which were dropped), a trimester school
year, credit for classes rather than hours
in class, a foreign study program, a revi-
sion of Freshman English classes, a pro-
posed Learning Center (now the Center
for Special Studies), and an introduction
of non-Western stvdies involving South
Asia. “Itwas the cc nclusion of the com-
mittee that Military Science and Tactics

. IS not compativle with the liberal
arts . . .” Beyond these features the pro-
gram also offered a way to avoid require-
ments with acceptance into the Honors
College, where independent study pre-
dominates.

Past Curricula

The present curriculum is seemingly
liberal in comparison to the Davidson
College Curriculum before 1900. The
Davidson College Catalogue (1843-61)
listed the schedule of classes for stu-
dents: a focus on Greek and Latin, with
gradual introduction to basic math, sci-
ence, religion and philosophy, with no
options. “Divine Worship and Bible Re-
citations” were mandatory.

The various laws of the campus, like
many colleges of its day, made a saintly
life a necessity. The first law of admis-
sions stated that “No person shall be ad-
mitted as a Student of College, without
producing satisfactory testimonials of
good moral character.” Other laws of the
college showed its truly conservative na-
ture: “No student shall violate the Sab-
bath Day by engaging in worldly em-
ployments or recreations;” “The denial
of being of a God . . . by any student,
shall subject him to expulsion from Col-
lege.” Rules such as obtaining permis-
sion to visit home, rules forbidding
gambling, drinking, visiting “houses of
ill repute,” and so on, make the present
Davidson College seem truly a liberal
arts college.
