10 Friday, April 8, 1983/The Davidsonian

|

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 19]4

Drinking Age Law

Davidson may not be a party school, but it still parties. Drinking

saturates every aspect of this campus. A recent Davidsonian poll .

suggests that 80 percent of Davidson students drink at some time or
another. Though few Davidson students drink only to get drunk, many
drink for social reasons.

North Carolina’s proposed drinking age hike would hit Davidson stu-
dents in their bellies. The law would affect three major aspects of David-
son’s social life: the 900 Room, Patterson Court parties, and freshman
halls. Nearly every freshman would be under age if the state passed the
law. How is the school going to regulate this large group?

Freshman year is a crucial time for socializing and becoming ad-
justed to the school. The law, if enforced to its fullest extent, would

_make freshmen second-class citizens by alienating them from the

mainstream of Davidson’s social life. Many freshmen will feel the pres-
sure to drink. Some of them will do it off campus. Some of them will do it
in their rooms. Should the hall counselors make daily checks for alcohol?
Should they require freshmen to submit to a breathalyzer test?
Davidson must decide how it will enforce the state’s law independent
of any judgment about the morality of the law. Clearly the College must
take some stand on enforcement; it only remains to be seen what will be
done. Davidson may choose to strictly enforce the law and return to the
mentality of the 1950s when drinking was forbidden on campus. Or it
may be more lenient. Whatever happens, the law cannot be ignored.

‘ Davidson will have to make some decision.

When the Council on Campus and Religious Life decides Davidson’s
position on the law, it should keep Davidson’s social life in mind, mak-
ing sure not to destroy what little life it has left. The College must find
some way to enforce the law without blitzing Davidson’s vitality.

Don't Talk, Listen

Good points arose from professor Mary Thornberry’s talk on the
double standard Monday night: a double standard does in fact exist here
in Davidson’s ivory tower; women as well as men perpetuate it; indi-
vidual effort is essential to overcome this general attitude. But Monday’s
talk ensuing discussion revealed a more disturbing point about David-
son: genuine dialogue here is a rare commodity.

Perhaps the charged emotions concerning male/female relations at
Davidson prevented easy discussion Monday night. The issue’s com-
plexity may have precipitated the frustrated outbursts and apparently ir-
relevant comments. Monday’s discussion was not unique in its lack of
lucidity, however, for students face the same phenomenon every day in
class — talking at each rather than to each other. So often, the point van-
ishes as students revel in hearing themselves talk.

Most students here are ambitious to a cerain degree; at this highly
competitive school, the premium on proving competence and equality to
peers is great. Although many fail to participate in class discussion at all,
others view the classroom as a perfect forum for emphasizing their abil-
ity to match or surpass classmates. Discussion is supposed to spur
thought, and it is supposed to involve more than one party.

The solution is at once simple and challenging. Meaningful dialogue
has its place; when the time for talk arises, acknowledge the importance
of your companions. As a liberal arts college recognizing the value of the

‘individual, Davidson is a wonderful place to realize one’s self worth.

Without caution, -however ; that can-become-all that one-realizes.- -- -

" WHERE IS AMMESTY TuTeRNATIONAL
WHEN X NEED IT?!"

LETTERS

More on Posters

[Editor's note: This letter came to The
Davidsonian office addressed to the stu-
dents of Davidson College.]

To the students of Davidson College:

I know of no way to reach the student
population of Davidson College other
than through The Davidsonian. So | will
use this avenue to express to you my dis-
may and anger over what I observed on
your campus recently during your elec-

. tions for your governing officials. Every-

where I turned I saw campaign posters
that had been literally mutilated.

My friends, in the real world, there
are courts, jails, and mental institutions
for citizens who perform such acts. At
Davidson there is the Honor System. As
the wife, daughter, neice and aunt of
Davidson graduates, I call on you, if you
have not already done so, to immediately
report those responsible for these acts of
vandalism.

Your personal integrity and the long
tradition and undisputed reputation of
Davidson College are at stake.

Mrs. Lenora Parker

Thanks

To the Editor:

The Y-Student Service Corps would
like to thank the campus and the commu-
nity for their support and participation in
Y Week of March 14-18. The Inner-
Council Dinner owes its support to the
Dean’s Office for the financial and moral
support. The Crop Dance-a-thon was a
tremendous success due to the efforts of
Beth Maczka. We raised $240.00 at the
door and expect to collect about $400 in
pledges in the fight against world

giving their house for the occasion;
Peregrine and Giorgio’s donated beer —
many thanks to their establishments; the
D.J.s were exceptional — John Marks
and Warren Gould receive our utmost ap-
preciation for their talents; the band
FRED graciously lent us their equipment
for the affair. For this and much more we
thank all those who helped, all those hwo
were involved, and the entire Davidson
Campus.
Thanks,
Y-Student Service Corps

hunger. The PiKAs were generous in

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from our readers. We require that let-
ters be signed and include the author’s
address and phone number. All letters

_ |-must be it-our hands-by-7:p:m. Tues-

Letters Policy —

day. We reserve the right to edit letters
for length and clarity. The Davidso-
nian does not in any way endorse the
opinions expressed in the letters it
prints: ~ —

