THE DAVIDSONIAN |

Volume LXXII, Number 20

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, April 29, 1983

Effective July

Executive Board Names
Johnston Interim Pres.

By DAVID RESNIK

The Executive Board of the Board of
Trustees has recommended that retired
Kenan Professor Emeritus of History
Frontis Johnston be appointed Interim
College President effective July 1.

His new term would fast from three to
five months, depending on how long it
takes the Search Committee to select a
new president. The Trustees will consid-
er Johnston's appointment at their next
meeting on May 6-7.

Johnston served as Acting President
in the summer of 1968, after fotmer Pres-
ident David Greir Martin resigned.

“| don’t see it as a time for any inno-
vations or startling change.” said
Johnston about his term as Interim Presi-
dent. He intends to “preserve the status
quo until a new man comes.”

Johnston said he will represent

Spencer’s views on most issues and will
meet with Spencer to discuss college pol-
icy before he takes office.

Johnston claims he won't make deci-
sions in a “vacuum.” He plans to rely on
the advice of Vice-president for
Academic Affairs and Dean of the Facul-
ty T. C. Price Zimmermann, Dean of
Students Will Terry, Vice President for
Development Jack Powers, and other
College officials.

He expects to oversee the College's
normal summer activities such as build-
ing renovations, athletic camps, the July
Experience, and alumni meetings during
the summer. Johnston also plans to be on
call in case an emergency arises.

If he must make decisions after
school starts, Johnston said he will avoid
making “long-term policy that would
commit the College,” because he feels it
is “better to wait” until the new president

File Photo

‘Frontis Johnston

assumes office. However, if an urgent
problem arises, Johnston said he would
attend to it.

(Continued on page 4)

Town Day Promotes Community Awareness

By ELIZABETH WHITE

The Davidson Parks and Recreation
Department will sponsor Town Day from
11 a.m. to3 p.m. on Saturday, May 7 on
the town square across from the David-
son College Presbyterian Church. Town
Day is a celebration held annually for the
last decade.

Town Day ts also a time for Davidson
College to show its interest in the com-
munity, according to Y-Student Service
Corps President Doug Ammar. Y-Corps
will work “as a bridge between the com-
munity and the campus” to get students
involved in Town Day. So far, Ammar
reports an “exciting response” and cited

many student organizations that have
volunteered time and talent to the cele-
bration.

The festivities will begin with a
parade down Main Street for all who
wish to participate. Following the
parade, the action will move to the Town
Square where numerous booths will be
set up.

Among the booths will be a sponge
throw booth sponsored by the Davidson
Christian Fellowship, a cookie decorat-
ing booth by the Alpha Phi Omega Ser-
vice Fraternity, a dunking booth by the
Black Student Coalition, a button-mak-
ing booth by Warner Hall, and face

Housing Situation Improves

By DUNCAN V. FRASER

The annual Davidson housing lottery
finished last week and for the first time in
recent years there was no major shortage
of student housing.

Housing Director Bill Bolding called
the situation “excellent compared with
previous years.” Only about 20 pairs in
the lottery did not receive a room, al-
though these may be put in first east Belk
and Basement Cannon, halls currently
reserved for freshmen.

The perimeter housing was also as-
signed by lottery. An unusually large
number of women applied for these
houses, resulting in more getting them.
Four groups, two male and two female,
failed to receive houses.

Lottery numbers ran 0-400 for

seniors, 400-800 for juniors, and 800-
1200 for sophomores. Sophomores in tri-
ples were allowed to draw junior num-
bers.

Bolding said that there were “more
triples this year than usual,” which Bold-
ing attributes to reduced rates. Room
rates for next year will be $1200 for sing-
les, $1010 for doubles, and $725 for tri-
ples.

Bolding also attributed the improve-
ment in the housing situation to the
graduation of the largest class ever. The
class of 1983 began with more than 420
freshmen.

Bolding expects the off-campus
housing population to decrease next year
and his office is not granting permission
to those already assigned rooms to live
off-campus.

painting by ATO. Rusk House will dress
as clowns and give out flowers, ROTC
will participate in the parade. the Y-
Corps will decorate bikes and sell ice
cream, and the néw nuclear organization
will have an information booth.

The Davidson Town Band will pro-
vide music, led by Music professor Wil-
liam Lawing and College Chaplain Char-
lie Summers and his family. Ammar also
mentioned that several other groups, in-
cluding SGA, Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity,
and the soccer team, plan to work at
Town Day but have not yet determined
what they will do.

Town Day will feature a sidewalk
chalk-art contest sponsored by The
Artworks, a local organization dedicated
to the advancement of the arts. The local
garden club will also take orders for
bulbs. As a souvenir of the celebration,
the Parks and Recreation Department
will sell Town Day tee shirts for $5.00
each.

The Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment will also sell $1.00 raffle tickets for
a ride ina hot air balloon. Tickets will be
sold on the Green with a drawing held in
the afternoon. Winners will be able to
select a date for their flight.

The North Meck YMCA will sponsor
two races on May 7. Participants may re-
gister at 8:30 a.m. onthe Green for a one-
mile race beginning at 9 a.m. and a five-
mile race to begin at 9:30 a.m. Registra-
tion fees are $3.00 for the one-mile and
$5.00 for the five-mile races. Ail who re-
gister will be given a T-shirt. Winners
will be awarded ribbons and prizes fol-

(Continued on page 4)

Students

Petition
For Self
Selection

By JEFFREY MANN

A new entry into the haggling over an
SGA proposal for Patterson Court .self-
selection appeared last week as Pete Skil-
lern and Edward Hay forced a referen-
dum on the issue, instead of relying on a
phone survey which the Patterson Court
Study Committee (PCSC) had decided to
go with.

They forced the referendum by col-
lecting 191 signatures on a “petition call-
ing for a student referendum vote on the
various proposals concerning Patterson
Court.” SGA By-laws require a referen-
dum if a petition signed by ten per cent of
the student body, 140 students, calls for
one. The petition does not support any
particular proposal, but merely expresses
“the belief that this is a matter to be
brought before the students.”

“We were unhappy with the possibil-
ity that the SGA would be voting on this
issue without getting student opinion.”
Skillern said. “We felt a referendum
would be better than a survey,” he added
pointing to the added legitimacy of a re-
ferendum and that an election is more
commonly used to determine policy.
“How the Trustees receive this informa-
tion is crucial. We felt that everyone
should have an opportunity to voice their
opinion.”

The five options on the ballot call for
no change, strict enforcement of self-
selection, the PCSC proposal of allowing
oral encouragements but still affirming
the right to self-selection. a “two-tier”
system of bids for fraternities and self-

(Continued on page 4)

ide This Week

= .
rs eP

‘Spiderlings: Sophomore Chris
Humphries recently won a biology
research grant. Story on page 3

‘Court History: Seif-setection
has been an issu on Patterson Court
for years. Story on page 5

» *The Bard!: Shakespeare mects
., 4New interpretation through the Per-
- forming Shakespeare Comedy semi-
' nar. Story on page 6

‘Vereen Bell: Creative writing
awards were presented last night.
) Details on page 7

‘ ‘IMAC: An intramural council is

ing formed. See page | 1

SSNS STRAY

