OPINIONS

The Davidsonian / Friday, May 6, 1983 15

Freeze Statement Is Substantive Political Act

Dr. Brian Shaw

Last week in these pages there appeared a thoughtful
and welcome commentary on the Nuclear Freeze Move-
ment by Tim Schipke. Mr. Schipke questions the effec-
tiveness of the faculty statement on nuclear arms and the
student referendum supporting that condemnation of the
nuclear arms race. As one of the professors who lent his
signature to this statement, I must answer Mr. Schipke’s
challenge to the faculty to “accept ethical responsibility
for their action and do something substantive.”

I would argue that the very fact that so many of us on
the Davidson faculty felt moved to sign this statement is
itself a “substantive” action. To endorse a document
condemning the “production and deployment of first-
strike weapons” is not a trivial matter. It is no mere “vac-
uous” reaffirmation, as Mr. Schipke implies, of hollow
principles with which no one would disagree. On the
contrary, to take a public stand against first-strike nucle-
ar weapons is to oppose the miitary policies pursued with
varying degrees of candor by the last seven American
administrations. My deeply held beliefs on this matter
are not those of the present government, nor those of
substantial numbers of persons in the United States. Mr.
Schipke intimates that the faculty statement merely
echoes things which everyone knows to be trivially true.
He is mistaken; I wish he were right.

There are very powerful and pervasive interests in
this country who do not share my views on the morality
of nuclear weapons. A substantial segment of corporate

America, from Boeing and Grumann to General (“We

bring good things to life”) has powerful vested interest in
the perpetuation of the arms race. So do many unions in
America whose members’ paychecks are paid by these
corporations. Even those bastions of liberal opinion, the
New York Times and the Washington Post, are at best
ambivalent about the merits of the freeze proposal. The
freeze, the Post has sagely wamed, is a “simplistic,
sloganeering response to a complex issue.”

By signing the faculty statement I publicly parted
company with these powerful persons and, even more to
the point, with others who are not content to disagree
about the arms race but who actually impugn the motives
of those who oppose it. To question the prevailing wis-
dom about nuclear arms is to run a very real risk of char-
acter assassination and red-baiting. According to The
Reader’ s Digest, a not inconsiderable forum for the dis-
semination of ideas in this country, there is an excellent
likelihood that I am a communist, or worse yet, a Soviet
dupe. (See “The KGB’s Magical War for ‘Peace’” in the
October 1982 issue.) Indeed, in the view of the President
himself, I am part of a movement which is allegedly “‘in-
spired by not the sincere, honest people who want peace,
but by some who want the weakening of America.”

Mr. Schipke, I ask you. If publicly endorsing a mo-
tion to freeze the arms race is simply an impotent bit of
humanistic chest-beating, why are such influential
people so anxious to smear those who engage in these ac-
tions?

My own answer to this question is that these people
recognize the threat posed to their positions of power and
privilege by the emergence of a vigorous popular move-
ment against nuclear weapons. The “‘arms race” is not
something which mysteriously “happens.” It is, on the
contrary, a process which is kept in motion only by the

persistent collective efforts of millions of human beings.
The arms race is an institution which benefits some indi-
viduals and damages others. I believe myself to be one of
those who is damaged by it, for I am compelled to pay
for the privilege of grievously endangering my own and
other people’s welfare. Others who believe that they
benefit from the perpetuation of this race would like to
see it continue. Generals, bureaucrats, politicians, pol-
icy “experts,” defense contractors and defense workers
all have a vested interest in the weapons spiral. A repudi-
ation of the weapons race is a direct attack on these en-
trenched intrests. They, of course, have fought back.

The impetus behind the freeze movement is, then, at
once philosophic and political. Any attempt to persuade
other individuals of the immorality and stupidity of the
nuclear arms race, even if it is “merely” signing a faculty
petition, is a substantive political act. Talking with and
persuading one another is not the final object of political
life, but it is its essential prerequisite. To engage in
dialogue about matters of life and death is to engage in
politics. To include ever wider sectors of the American
public in this dialogue — the goal of every public state-
ment about the arms race — is to help build the sort of
popular political movement which might put an end tc
nuclear weapons.

The outcome of this process is, of course, uncertain.
That the faculty statement should have prompted such an
intelligent response as that of Mr. Schipke, however,
confirms my belief that efforts to initiate a popular
dialogue are an essential component of any movement to
lessen the likelihood of a nuclear holocaust in our time.

Shaw is Mellon Assistant Professor of Political Science
and Humanities

. Summer Course Credit

To the Editor:
I would like students to know of a

Talk and Honor

To the Editor:
Much of Davidson's highly regarded

new emphasis in dealing with academic
deficiencies which are to be made up dur-
ing the summer. The shoe will fit only
some students, but general knowledge of
it is desirable. The new emphasis is that

deficiencies must really be made up by
August 16 this year,

That has been our stated standard for
years, but in recent years Davidson has
yielded on the date in instances where
there was conflict between it and the nec-

Phi Society

To the Editor:

One of Davidson’s most unusual stu-
dent organizations held its election of of-
ficers this past week. The Philanthropic.
Literary Society’s new President is Rick
Graves, its Vice-president, John Be-
nedict, and its Secretary Stu King. Other
officers include Hunter Monroe as First
Supervisor and Mike Blake as First Cri-
tic.

The Philanthropic Society was
founded by students, who built their own
“Hall” in 1850. The Philanthropic Hall
stands opposite the Eumenean Society
Hall on the old campus quadrangle.

The aim of the founding students is
recorded in their Constitution: “To pur-
sue study of rhetoric, logic, and ethic, to
promote a spirit of subordination to law
and order by engendering a high regard
for justice and truth... .”

The organization was based on par-
liamentary rules and procedures, and for
many years played a dominant role —
along with its rival Eu Society — in the
social and academic lives of Davidson
students. Literary Societies were an in-
tegral part of colleges throughout the
South.

With the advent of a college library,
student government, and fraternities, the
old Davidson literary societies eventu-
ally lost their central role in college life.
The Philanthropic Society, however,
continues in its traditional role as a dis-
tinguished forum for student and faculty
speakers and as a unique experience in
parliamentary organization.

The Society’s semi-formal meetings
are held Sunday evenings at nine and are
open to all interested students.

John Benedict 84

essary delay in receiving the transcript
from another college. That relationship
has been abused to Davidson's detriment
so frequently that it has become a signifi-
cant problem. Included is the fact that
every year (nearly) there is someone who
remains in Davidson because we didn’t
have the records in time to act on ineligi-
bility before school opens, and that is not
fair to any who are ineligible based on
proper records.

We are calling on students who ex-
pect to make up a deficiency at another
college to check specifically and make
certain the needed transcript can be at
Davidson on or before August 16. If it
can’t, other plans should be made. Some
summer schools can takt special steps to
get records to Davidson if made aware of
the student’s needs.

Let me call your attention to the
availability of contract courses through
Davidson during the summer. The ar-
rangement there has a built-in guarantee
of meeting the August 16 deadline.

Where there are individual problems
I will be glad to consult.

Without a deficiency the deadline for
receiving transcripts of summer work is
November 15. .
Richard C. Burts, Jr.

Registrar

reputation rests firmly on the existence of
the Honor Code. As a staunch believer in
the merits of the honor system, I feel
somewhat confused and disappointed
when the Honor code seems to fall into
disregard. Davidson College upholds the
ideal that the Honor Code covers not only
academic concems, but that its spirit per-
meates all campus life as well. There-
fore, it particularly disturbs me when the
administration itself fails to allow the
Honor Code to work.

I refer to the breakdown of trust at
Vail Commons. Twice this year I have
been denied the right to sit with friends
and talk while they ate. Because I was
planning to eat at my own house on Pat-
terson Court, I did not desire to eat at the
Commons myself. | was informed that
the only way I would be allowed to sit in
the Commons was if I paid to eat. It
seems. not only a serious failure of the
spirit of the Honor Code but also a
genuine injustice that I have to pay
merely to enjoy sitting in one of the Col-
lege’s buildings.

I believe something is amiss in an
Honor Code that trusts students nor to
talk during exams but does not trust them
only to talk during mealtimes.

Dennis Sweurengin
