The Davidsonian/Friday, September 23, 1983 5

Milton Doubts Testing |

By LISA THOMAS

Professors squirmed in their seats at
the Open Luncheon Wednesday as visi-
ting scholar Ohmer Milton voiced his
doubts about the effectiveness of class-
room testing, in his talk entitled “The
Malignancy of Tests.”

In this country about 72 million un-
dergraduate classroom tests are adminis-
tered per year, a large proportion of
which are useless, Milton said. He feels
that classroom tests are the “single most
powerful determiners of learning,” yet
they are not commonly used to full ad-
vantage. Milton sees a need to “turn this
power to our favor.”

Milton is happy with the attention
that education is once again receiving in
this country, but he still feels that the
quality could be much better. He cited re-
search indicating that students study ac-
cording to the particular type of test they
are going to receive. For example, when
told they. were to have multiple choice
questions, students prepared much less
extensively than when told they would
have an essay test. However, Milton was

By Peggy Pierotti

Ohmer Milton

careful to note that any kind of test can be
effective if it is prepared properly.

The main target of Milton’s attack is
toward tests which require no deep
thought or reasoning. He illustrated with
sample questions that require no knowl-
edge except that of “test-taking.” Some

of the poor questions required simple
recognition or recall of obscure, insig-
nificant facts, such as “The Compromise
of 1877 was signed at. . . the Wormley
Hotel.”

In many cases, Milton believes, the
professor does not recognize how few of
his examinations require an understand-
ing of the material. In a study done at
Florida State University, seventeen in-
structors stated that 31 percent of their
test questions demanded complex think-
ing. When trained students judged the
tests, they discovered that actually only
nine percent required reasoning.

In a society that is “enamored with
numbers,” Milton believes that the
academic establishment places too much
emphasis on grades, with the assumption
that high scores indicate learning. Some
states have gone so far as to pass legisla-
tion to curb abuses of the SATs (which
produce nice concrete figures), while the
quality of testing in its classrooms is
quite poor. Milton believes that only
questions that require “reasoning and
deep thought” will make students’ learn-
ing rise.

Milton graduated from Berea College
in Kentucky and received his M.A. from

the, Universitu.of Kentucky He received

PS pe

his PhD in Psychology from the UniVér-
sity of Michigan, and joined the faculty
of the University of Tennessee in 1946.
He was Director of the Learning Re-
search Center there from 1965 until his
recent retirement. Since then he has been
“crusading.”

When his children fell victim to test-
ing incollege, he recognized the need for
reform. “That’s when it became per-
sonal,” he said.

He has published nine books and over
20 articles including such topics as “Im-
proving Achievement via Essay Exams”
and “Testing and Learning.”

He has just completed a survey of
faculty, students, parents and
businessmen’s attitudes about grades.
Davidson participated in the study which
is the first nationwide survey of its kind.
The results should be out in a month.

Political Science Professor Harris Proctor

Proctor Seeks Fulbright

By DAVID McGEE

taught in a Third World country, and
Professor Harris Proctor, chairman of the
political science department, felt like it
was time to go again. So he appled for a
Fulbright Lecturing Fellowship.

When asked on the application why
he wanted to teach in a Third World
country, he stated that “I have found it
extremely stimulating intellectually to
teach in Third World countries. I desire a

direct knowteuge of tidraii poiiticar at- ”

titudes and behavior, and to understand
more fully how India is coping with the
political changes of modernization.”

Proctor, who taught one year in
Egypt, one in Kenya, and one in Tan-
zania before coming to Davidson in
1970, has a love for living and teaching
in environments different from his own.
“It really changes your perspective,” he
said.

AIR FORCE

ROTC —

‘

HERE ARE THE FACTS

cS) e

y

When you're discussing something as important as your future, it’s urgent that you get the straight
facts. . .and that you understand them. Air Force ROTC can be an important part of your future. We would
like to outline some of the facts and invite you to look into gathering more.

It’s a fact: the Air Force needs highly-qualified, dedicated officers . .. men and women. It’s a fact: we need

le in all kinds of educational disciplines. It’s a fact: we're prepared to offer financial help to those who can

quali

for an Air Force ROTC scholarship.

“Few Third World countries have

k had been 11, years since he hag, bgen, able to maintain a democracy, but

India has. I had read about it, but I was
surprised at how lively the political dis-
cussion was there — so much more than
in other countries. The people were al-
lowed to criticize the government freely,
and there was a lively press. The students

sand faculty were more politically active
than students here.”

Proctor taught in the University of
Delhi at St. Stephens College, a liberal
GAS CEE HC RE Dev Sth. «0
Stephens went co-ed about the same time
Davdison did. The morale there was very
high, Proctor said. “The students were
proud to be there. They are almost
guaranteed a job when they graduate. It
is also competitive. The college received
9,000 applications for 280 vacancies
next year.”

While teaching courses in compara-
tive and African politics, as well as lec-
turing at other universities in India, Proc-
tor and his wife traveled throughout the
country. “We never got bored. There is
just so much to see in India: the Taj
Mahal, archeological sights, the moun-
tains, palaces... .

“The population is anything but
homogeneous; traveling from place to
place was like going through different
countries. We relied on the local
economy entirely..We didn’t have any
canned foods — all fresh. The faculty
and people we met were very hospitable,
much more so than in the other countries
I’ve taught.”

Proctor also carried out a research
project on the role played by members of
a committee of the Indian Parliament ap-

et together with an AFROTC

pointed by the president to represent art,
could be one of the most important t

science, literature, and social service,
and on how they interpret their responsi-

resentative and discuss the program. We'll give you all the facts. It
s you've ever had with anyone about your educational plans.

/s\JO02} JHOVEYG:E Contact Capt. Paul Chambers bility. OC
~ at UNCC, Calvard 3059 “As a political scientist, it was inter-
(704) 597-4537 esting to see how a Third World country

ROTC

is developing successfully through the
democratic route,” Proctor said, , . . .

er
