8 Friday, October 28, 1983/The Davidsonian

Scot Myers: A Hero In The Marvel Universe

By IDA PHILLIPS

Armed with only a black pen, accom-
pained by his white rat Diva, and dis-
guised as a senior at Davidson, our hero
hits the drawing board. Furiously
scratching out muscle-clad mutants and
fantastic figured females, he struggles to
restore order to the Marvel Comics and
establish himself as an artist. But we
have faith in our hero, for he is none
other than Davidson’s own Scot Myers.

To tell our hero’s story correctly, we
must begin with those early days before
he discovered his unusual powers. Be-
ginning at the age of four, Scot worked in
his mother’s foreign car parts shop, as-
sembling rear axle repair kits. No won-
der Scot turned to comic books.

“IT was paid one dollar for this job.
And one dollar was just enough to buy
four comic books. So on my lunch break,
I went to the 7-11 around the corner and
bought two Archies, one Richie Rich,
and one Hot Stuff. But then at some
point, I read a Marvel Comic Book and
was just amazed. I didn’t feel like a little
kid anymore.” Like Spiderman’s fateful
bite, that first Marvel sealed Scot's des-
tiny.

Scot did not realize his powers until
he was a sophomore in high school,
when he and a friend created a super hero
named Sentinel. “Later on I just sat down

Scot Myers’ Alana

skills improved immensely. “I looked
over everyone’s shoulders and learned
the ins and outs of the business. I defi-
nitely came away twice.as good an artist
because all I did that summer was draw
bodies.”

So what became of Scot the artist
when he assumed the guise of Scot the
student? Currently, Sentinel is still on the
shelf. Because every character in Marvel
Comics must fit into the scheme of the
Marvel universe, Sentinel’s appearance
has been postponed several times.

In hopes of speeding up Sentinel’s
debut, Scot is working on a “Silver
Surfer” mini-series. Silver Surfer is the
most powerful figure in the Marvel world
and accordingly a popular character.
Scot hopes that Marvel will publish the
mini-series by next summer and then
begin trying to fit Sentinel into the Mar-
vel population. “I know them and I know
my work and that makes me confident
that theyll use it.”

Even Superman splits time between a
red cape and Clark Kent’s horn rims —
Scot is not going to wield a pen forever.
Instead, he wants to direct movies and
“always work for Marvel in my spare
time.” After graduation, Scot is going to
Hollywood to work for TV producer
Glenn Larson, who has produced such

at my drawing board, drew what |
thought Sentinel should look like. and
went ‘Wow!’” Scot had been drawing
since his auto parts days and Marvel

Comics realized his talent. After Scot
submitted the character to the publica-
tion, the editor-in-chief gave him a sum-
mer job as an apprentice artist.

For a few months, Scot worked in
that metropolis of superheroes, New.
York City. Although he was only paid
$36 a week for train fare, Scot’s drawing

shows as Battlestar Galactica and Mani-
mal. If Larson is willing, Scot hopes he
will fund his first big movie, which will
be about the X-Men. Of course.

College Bowl Hotshots Eye Green Room Berth

By TIM WAPLES

For three weeks now, you've heard “the Green
Room” pontificate concerning the College Bown intra-
mural tournament. You've probably wondered, “Who
are these guys?” with no more than a vague notion that
whoever it is must be in charge of the tournament.

Well you guessed right. The Green Room of the
Union is the scene of the varsity College Bowl team’s
daily practices. The team members are not much differ-
ent from this year’s intramural hotshots: all played in
intramurals before trying out or being picked for the var-
sity team. The big change comes in the Green Room.
Daily exposure to the best coaching staff in the country
and just plain practice has given the team an opportunity
to develop a little more speed and a good bit more knowl-
edge than before joining the team. For those of you who
dream of good interrupts and 30-20-10 bonuses, here’s
your chance to meet the team:

Head Coach Hansford “Bear”, et al. Epes

The man of a thousand nicknames, Dr. Epes is Col-
lege Bowl at Dayidson. Twenty-three years of experi-
ence guide those crazy Cats from daily practice to tour-
nament travel. Dr. Epes spends countless hours compil-
ing questions for the team and for intramurals. Even
more time is spent altering transcripts, negotiating with
teachers, and outmaneuvering the NCAA to keep the
Cats academically eligible and behind the buzzer. Prob-
ably only Mrs. Archie is a more necessary component of
Davidson College than “the man with the questions,”
Dr. Epes.

Coach Robert “Uncle Hurricane,”
“Renaissance Robert” Manning

Known by Loyd Dillon as “the, other College Bow!
coach,” Dr. Manning assumes the role of jovial adver-
sary on the other, side of the Green Room battlefield. Dr.
Manning, Mr. Lloyd, and any unsuspecting visitors to .

the Green Room challenge the team daily to whatever
fare is offered. An aspiring biologist and leading campus
astrologer, Dr. Manning has yet to stumble on a baseball
question. As far as the team is concerned, the Hurricane
is the best third base coach since Preston Gomez.
Coach Charles “Mister” Lloyd

Received College Bowl along with the gift of Fire
from Prometheus. Authority on the writings of Thoreau
and a close personal friend of D.H. Lawrence, Mr.
Lloyd is nothing less than the Davidson College Bowl
Oracle. No flies on this guy.

Captain John “Eggman” Eglin
_ On loan from the British Museum, Cap’n Eggman is
the senior bulwark of the team. In his fourth year of col-
lege varsity competition, the elder Peach Brother is a
history major from Atlanta, Ga. John has assumed the
Herculean task of filling the shoes of retired Hall of
Famer Brad Mullis, but the “chinless China” leads the
kids with flair. As a player, the Eggman brings a com-
pletely unique style to the Green Room, as well as the
fastest buzzer on thé%team — on bonuses: From St.
Apollonia to Oscar Wilde, the Eggman never ceases to
amaze.
Chris Blake, Man Without a Nickname

Now a junior, he’s no longer a prodigy, but Blake
has blossomed onto the rightful possessor of the All-
American seat. Blake serves as DSG, (Designated Sci-
ence Guy) as well as the uncontested master of TV trivia.
More than just a-of€-dimensional player, Blake is ‘the
College Bowl Driver and most often keeper of the

Tunes, inspiring the "Cats with such greats as Chuck «
Begxy_or the Killer. Hailing from-St. Petersburg, Fl, -

Blake is a member of the A Teaiff(better known as politi-
cal science majors) and a DingBrother. His trademarks
are his fast break style and the high-decibel answer.
Dave “Dave-O”, “Walrus” Sisk... ,
_ The Spider brings D & D, overalls; -and-facial hair to.

the Green Room. The junior Peach Brother, Dave-O can
stay step-for-step with the Eggman on booze and food
questions, as well as mythology and miscellaneous
weird stuff. An English major from Atlanta, Ga., the
Spider is the unquestioned authority on sci-fi, Marlin
Perkins questions, and the hard-line stance on intramur-
als rules procedures. Moving over to Emanon next term
to set up the College Bowl Training Table, Dave-O com-
pletes the Class of ’85 triumvirate that will form the core
of the College Bowl ’Cats for two full years.
Tim “Wingspan,” Waples

Formerly the Player of the Future, he’s just finished
a | 1/2 year stint as Last Alternate and all-around cheer-
leader. Product of a strong College Bowl heritage, his
parents are the Greatest College Bowl Fans of All Time.
Although he’s entering his fifth year of related competi-
tion, nobody can convince Waples that he’s not still the
new kid on the block. Like Blake, he’s a Ding Brother
and an A Team member. Trademarks include the uncon-
ventional two-handed buzzer approach, the laconic “Get
off, bro” after a teammate’s stylish terrupt® and the
Sun Car, the number 2 College Bowl Vehicle. He’s good
on dates, too.

Spiritual Advisor Greg “Guru” Rhodes

Nurtured both of the Ding Brothers to third place
intramurals finishes in ’81 and ’82, preparing them for
the major leagues. Keeps everybody up on their Aristo-
tle while showing by example the dangers of Soft Skin
and LA sports teams.

The days when the stereotype of the eggheaded her-
mit playing College Bowl are long gone, You'll see each
of these guys on campus in activities far from the buzzer.
We’ ve tried to bring fun and just #ittle silliness to a
worthwhile, but little-known pastime. Successful or not,

_ the nqw-now-so-mysterious Green Room will be back
~ hext.week. with the lateston the intramural tournament .- -
