The Davidsonian

Friday, March 18, 1983 3

Semester Calendar
Tentatively Approved

By MARY BETH HARDING

The Faculty Executive Committee .

has tentatively approved a semester
calendar for the 1984-85 school year and
is currently circulating it for faculty re-
sponse. .

According to the proposed calendar,
the fall semester would begin Aug. 29
and end Dec. 20. It would include a one-
week fall break in mid-October and a
two-day Thanksgiving holiday. A five-
day exam period would precede the
Christmas holidays.

Spring semester would begin January
14 and end May 3 with a spring break in
mid-March. It also includes one reading
day and a five-day examination period.

Because students will be taking four
or five classes per semester for a total of
nine per year, some concern has been
voiced about the time allotted for exams.
Compared to other schools of David-
son’s caliber, the exam period is short.

Princeton allows an eight-day read-
ing period and 12 to 13 days for exams.

Amherst has two reading days and a 14-
to 15-day exam period. Duke has a three-
day reading period and seven days for
exams. Williams schedules five days for
reading period and five for exams. These
schools do not self-schedule their exams.

Several faculty members said that
since the proposed calendar is now so
tentative that they preferred to make no
comment for attribution at this time. Ac-
cording to one faculty member, “One of
the advantages of self-scheduled exams
is that more exams can be spread out
within a shorter period of time.”

Several faculty members wished to ©

stress that the calendar is very tentative.
Students will be asked to respond to it,
and the faculty will suggest revisions at a
meeting April 5. They will be responsi-
ble for giving final approval to the calen-
dar.

SGA President Tim Johnston and
Educational Policy Committee Student
Representative Burt Taylor decined to
comment on the proposed calendar until
they form a definite opinion.

Se ee

“=. GAY
Fad : P
— +e a> *

Ey
\ \

ry
Px

Educational Policies Committee Chairman John Kelton evaluates the switch

from a trimester to semester calendar

Davidson to Get New Post Office

By ANNE LAMBERT

The Davidson post office will have a
new building sometime after the begin-
ning of 1984. The U.S. Postal Service is

currently preparing plans for the new
building to be located behind the Pereg-
rine House.

Postal authorities speculated previ-

Committees to Review
Presidential Applicants

By PAULETTE KURANI

The Faculty, Student, and Trustee
Presidential Search Committees will
hold a joint meeting on campus to discuss
and screen applicants on March 28.

The Trustee Search Committee has al-
ready received over 200 nominations for
the presidential position.

“We would like to have that person
identified and named by May,” said
Trustee Committee chairman Ben T.
Craig, “but this is an ambitious goal, and
it may not happen.”

“Right now, each member of each
committee is making an independent ap-
praisal of the applicants,” explained
Craig. “None of the members consult
each other. The whole process at this mo-
ment involves individual judgements.”

The information that the various com-
mittee members gather is not readily
available to the public. All media person-
nel are immediately referred to Ben
Craig for statements.

Craig said that two of the most impor-
tant things that the committee ensures are
total confidentiality (regarding the
applicants and various proceedings), and
the chance for all students, faculty, and
trustees to voice their opinions.

“We had over 30 nominations this past

week,” claimed Craig, “and the quality
of the applicants remains very good. As
time progresses, selection will get har-
der.”

The Student Committee consists of
Mary Tabb, Tim Johnston, Elizabeth
Brooks, Mike Mauzé, and Ben Wil-
liams. According to SGA President
Johnston, the students are taking active
part in the study of the candidates.

“I think they will do a good job. They
were chosen among many very qualified
students who were highly committed to
the college’s ideals and future to repre-
sent the student body. The committee
members have definite ideas of where the
school should be |5.years from now.”

Mary Tabb said that the students are
constantly working on the project. “If
we're not actually meeting, we’re either
reviewing applications or going to gather
more information.”

The Trustee’s Presidential Search
Committee consists of Ben T. Craig,
Chairman; John Medlin, vice chairman;
E. Craig Wall, Jr.; and Fred Stair, ex of-
ficio. They have already met twice this
month.

The Faculty Advisory Committee is
made up of professors David Kaylor,
John Kelton, Charles Ratliff, James
Swisher, and Gill Holland.

ously that the new post office would open
by April 1983. However, planning de-
lays have forced a change in relocation
date. “It's a definite fact that we're
going, [but] the best educated guess |
could give you would be sometime after
the first of the year,” said Postmaster
John Fisher.

Fisher said that the Postal Service has
acquired property for the building and re-
tained the architectural firm Dellinger-
Lee Associates to prepare the plans.
“We're presently in the design stage,”
said Fisher.

Davidson College owns the current
post office building. In 1960 the College
granted the U.S. Postal Service a twenty-
year lease. When it expired in 1980, the
College granted four subsequent one-
year leases to the Postal Service. The
current lease expires April 30, 1984, but
the Postal Service will have moved the
Davidson Post Office to its new facilities
by that time.

Fisher said that the new building will
better fill the growing needs of the
Davidson community. The post office
currently houses 2400 post office boxes;
the new building will contain 600 more
to meet demand. The building will be de-
signed with space and energy conserva-
tion in mind.

No estimates on the cost of the new
facility are available, but the project will
be funded by the U.S. Postal Service.
Fisher anticipates no increase in box
rental or service costs.

The old post office building's future
is uncertain. According to Business
Manager Robert Currie, the College is
considering plans to move the Student
Store, currently located in the basement
of the College Union, to the vacated
building. Currie said the planned move

would build rapport between the commu-
nity and the College.

No official plans have been made
concerning the use of the old Student
Store space if the move does take place.
One suggestion considers allowing Col-
lege-operated WDAV to expand its facil-
ities, currently located in part of the
Union basement, into the vacated store
space. Station Manager John Clark feels
such a move would be a positive step for
the station and the College. “I think a
move to the Student Store would be a
vast improvement,” he said.

Currently, WDAV'’s operating facili-
ties comprise 928 square feet, including
Community Relations Director Marilyn
Gilmore’s office located in Chambers. A
move to the Student Store space would
provide WDAV with over 3000 square
feet of operating area.

The relocation of the post office will
be a big change for many in both the town
and the College communities. Postmas-
ter Fisher, a Davidson post office em-
ployee since 1958, will take “a lot of
memories” with him when he moves to
the new building next year. “But.” said
Fisher, “it’s just like life — everything
has to change.”

