“The Tale of Mike Sorrentino’ Cont’d.

son he passed for a school record 146 as-
sists (which was later broken by Chris
Dodds’ 207 mark in the 1977-78 sea-
son) despite his emotional troubles.
That mark included a still-standing re-
cord 17-assist performance against
Wofford. As a junior, however, he be-
came Davidson’s most erratic player.
“There was no inbetween for me,” he
told the Observer. “Either I played great
or couldn’t play at all.”

He started his senior season in the
Same manner, and the team followed
suit with a 4-4 start. During a time out in
a game against Miami of Ohio in the
Charlotte Invitational Tournament, Sor-
rentino realized, “I was trying so hard to
play good basketball, and the harder I
tried the worse it got. I’ve always had
the ability to shoot and pass. My prob-
lem was the right mental approach,” he
said. During the time out, something
came to him. “I said to myself, ‘What’s
going on here? Why am I letting it get
me down?’ | told myself to relax.”

From that point on, he started play-
ing better.

Sorrentino was at his best that year
against eleventh-ranked South Caroli-
na. Playing against his high school
teammate Brian Winters, Sorrentino
played the best game of his career. He
ran the offense nearly flawlessly, with
fourteen points and no turnovers. On
defense he ineffectualized Winters by
holding him to 3 of 17 field goals.

“They can say I played good de-
fense,” he told Stan Olson of the Char-
lotte News, “but if Brian had been hot,
there’s nothing I could have done to stop
him. This is a great one, though.” With
typical modesty, he later told the Ob-
server, “I don’t look at it as me beating
Brian and Tony Byers. It’s Davidson
beating South Carolina. What we do in-
dividually goes toward the team win-
ning, and that’s what counts the most.”

By the time “Bruno” Sorrentino
shed his number 13 uniform for the last
time in the spring of 1974, he had led the
Wildcats to an 18-9 season and had
passed for a career record 355 assists

(which John Carroll broke this year).
After graduation, Sorrentino went
to Europe. Perhaps it seemed to him that
he had several more lives to live, and he
could not spare any more time for-bas-
ketball. Perhaps he went there to ad-

vance in the direction of his dreams. °

Whatever the reason, he wandered aim-
lessly across the continent, hitch-hiking
and odd-jobbing his way.

The bad knees that had plagued Sor-
rentino for years forced him back to the
United States in the winter of 1979-80.
A year before he had torn three of four
knee ligaments while playing profes-
sional basketball in Switzerland. He
couldn’t walk for more than two hours
in a row without considerable pain, so it
was imperative that he return home for
an operation. He went to Davidson for
the winter prior to his operation to use
the Johnston Gym facilities to streng-
then his knee.

Sorrentino took a job at the Pere-
grine House, and for accomodations he
occupied an old treehouse in the woods.
“It wasn’t that I needed a place to stay,”
he told Stan Olson in a 1979 article.
“I’ve got friends here and a lot of people
invited me to stay with them, and I
could pay rent. But I just wanna stay
outside.” Perhaps his time in the tree-
house was one more life to live, and he
could not spare any more time for tra-
veling. “I’ve been in a house in New
York all my life,” Sorrentino explained,
“and it’s nicer outside. We all think
about that, but nobody does it.”

He went on, “That’s why shopping
malls are so popular. People feel closed
in and so safe from the rain and snow.
Someday the whole world will be a big

_ Shopping mall and we’ll all be safe.”

In the treehouse, Sorrentino was en-
deavoring to live the life he had im-
agined. He stored a crate of yogurt there
and slept in a sleeping bag. The tree-
house even had floor-to-ceiling carpet
on one of the walls. But most important-
ly, Sorrentino said, “I’ve got a window
facing east that I can see the sunrise
through and the moonrise at night.”

ry

‘Bruno’ in his heyday.

Today, “Bruno,” as he is still called,
is living in Chapel Hill and working at a
bakery in Durham. He works the 8
p.m.-4a.m. shift. Until just recently, he
was living in a secluded cabin in the
woods with no plumbing or electricity
and far from the dusty highways of the
world. It’s not the sort of life one would
expect of a Davidson graduate, but one
cannot apply the expectations of com-
mon hours to Mike Sorrentino.

Thoreau wrote, “I had not lived
there a week before my feet wore a path
from my door to the pond-side; and
though it is five or six years since I trod
it, it is still quite distinct.” There is no
such path leading to Mike Sorrentino’s

treehouse; he probably took care to
avoid falling into such a patterned track.

“You know, some people have
talked about tearing down that tree-
house,” Sorrentino said. “I hope they
don’t, it’s a super place. You can see the
sun rise.” At some point during Mike
Sorrentino’s thirty years of sunrises, he,
like Thoreau, concluded, “I do not say
that John or Jonathan will realize all
this; but such is the character of that
morrow which mere lapse of time can
never make to the dawn. The light
which puts out our eyes is darkness to
us. Only that day dawns to which we are,
awake. There is more day to dawn. The
sun is but a moming star.”

Wrestlers Blitz Hampden-Sydney

Breidenstine Registers Three Pins

By SCOTT BEAVER ’84

Davidson picked up two team wins
and some sparkling individual perfor-
mances as the Cats’ mat record went to
5-4 this week. Davidson participated in
a four-team meet with Washington and
Lee, Hampden Sydney and Loyala, and
also met Catawba here Tuesday.

The Wildcats dropped the match to
Washington and Lee 36-19. Forfits in
the 118 Ib., 190 Ib., and heavyweight
divisions cost Davidson 18 points. The
Generals picked up three pins as well.
Larry Anker (139) pinned freshman
Tom Cardwell, Tim:White (150) pinned

freshman Clay Carroll, and Tom Vol-
liere (169) pinned sophomore Bob
McCullen, who had previously compet-
ed at 190. The Wildcats got wins from
sophomore Tom Oddo (134) as he beat
Jim Foley 27-6, junior John Breiden-
stine (142), who pinned Win Sission at
5:40, senior Chris Tiernon (158), a 3-2
winner over Win Phillips, and from jun-
ior Tom Hissom, who won 19-3 over
Dave Johnston.

' Later that day, Davidson. blitzed
Hampden-Sydney 35-0. In addition to
two forfeits, Davidson won. five. indi-
vidual matches, and had two double for-
feits. Breidenstine pinned Jake Peck at

3:10, and Tienon did the same to Ri-

chard Rogers at 2:37.

Oddo crushed Tom Bourne 27-7,
Carroll beat Bob Houska, 9-4, and
McCallen decisioned Mike Adams, 9-
4.

The Wildcats got their second win
of the day by downing Loyola of Balti-
more, 28-12. Loyola won one match by
forfeit, and picked up a pin at 167. The

. Wildcat grapplers got pins from Bren-

denstine, who beat Homer Ambrose at
3:09, and from Carroll, who pinned
Mike Harrison at 1:07. Oddo beat Greg
Bell on points, 18-7, and Hissom, wres-
tling at 190, decisioned Joe Hamel 6-3.

Tuesday night, the Wildcats faced
perennial nemesis Catawba in the Cats’

last home match at the season. Again,
forfeits were costly as Davidson lost
twelve points by forfeit, winning one
weight class by forfeit. That forfeit to
Davidson at 167, denied senior co-cap-
tain Tiernon his last match in front of a
home crowd.

Oddo pinned Sean Hore at 4:13, and
Hissom pinned Carl Johnson at 3:42.
Two individual matches ended in ties,
as Breidenstine tied Pat Pirce at 6-6, and
McCullen tied Steve Leech at 10-10.

Catawba’s wins came at 118, where
Pete Kelley beat freshman Jim Labrec
12-0, at 134, where Greg Stewart deci-
sioned Cardwell 11-2, and at 150,
where Pete Simmons beat Carroll 8-4.

| _ THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983

19
