Dr. King’s Birthday

America, how dare you say no?

By ANNE ELLIOT °84

“Unlike any other American hero, King will not go
away!”

—Rep. John Conyers

D-Michigan

“He was a man who confronted injustice. He did not

telephone it, or write a letter to it. He confronted it!”
—Dr. Ron Walters
Howard University

aturday, January 15, thousands’ of

Americans celebrated the birth of the

Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Seventeen stu-
denis and Davidson residents joined those who ga-
thered in his honor in Washington, D.C.

On Saturday, the National Legislative Strategy
Session, including speakers, workshops, and a con-
cluding rally, started at 10 a.m. and continued through-
out the evening.

Each speaker emphasized, in one form or another,
how Dr. King’s dream continues to cry out for peace,
justice, freedom, and love. Mr. Damu Smith of the

American Friends Service Committee, said, “Presi-
dent Ronald Reagan cries over the injustices in Poland,
but when the slaughter and injustice prevalent in South
Africa are brought to his attention, he has nothing to
say. No sanctions, no boycotts, no feeling, no nothing.
. . With money going away from us and into Reagan’s
mechanical murderers, we should immediately realize
that the peace issue is a black issue. And if not for this
reason alone, then certainly for the very survival of the
planet. Nuclear war is an equal opportunity killer.”
Why? Why should Martin Luther King’s birthday
be a national holiday when John F. Kennedy, Robert
E. Lee, and scores of other public and prominent men
and women don’t have national holidays? Simple.
There is no support for them to have national holidays.
There is a tremendous thrust to pass the King holiday
bill. The people want it. The bill is not simply a mate-
rialistic need of a special day in honor of Dr. King.
Martin Luther King is a symbol of untampered, true
American ideals. Unlike any other man, he bluntly
questioned the integrity of the American national char-
acter and confronted it with its own founding princi-
ples.
To black people he gave the precious gift of self-

love and self-respect. He removed Christian hypocrisy
from the lips and actions of white people. He spent his
life telling white people that all men are created equal
and demanding that justice “roll down like water and
righteousness like a mighty stream.”

But America continues to say NO to him and to us,
as they did in his lifetime. Why? That the King holiday
request was rejected suggests that many in white
America still will not acknowledge and confront their
past and present acts of hypocrisy and injustice, espe-
cially when they are so vividly revealed to them by the
life and teachings of a black man.

So Stevie sang on. Stevie Wonder sang in glorious
tribute to “the man”: the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King
Jr. And the tear came. No crying, just that vehemently
calm tear, innocently peculiar to the Negro eye. And
we rejoiced and sang on, silently raging with aban-
doned hurt: America, how dare you say No?

But you are celebrated, Dr. King. You are celebrat-
ed by every heart, across the globe, that believes in and
lives for love, justice, and freedom! God bless you, we
love you, and Happy Birthday, Dr. King.

Anne Elliot is President of the Black Student Coalition

Plott
Memorial Concert

(Continued from page |)

School of the Arts in Winston-Salem,
and he was also first oboist with the
Piedmont Chamber Orchestra and the
Clarion Wind Quartet.

He graduated from Davidson Phi
Beta Kappa with a major in English.

Workman, also an English major,
went on to earn a diploma in voice per-
formance from the Curtis Institute of
Music in Philadelphia. He joined the
Hamburg State Opera in 1965 and as-
sumed his present position in 1975.
Workman has sung with opera compan-
ies around the world.

Donald B. Plott died in 1981 while
serving in his thirtieth year on the Da-
vidson College faculty. He directed the
nationally recognized Davidson Col-
lege Male Chorus for 29 years and the
Oratorio Singers of Charlotte for 20
years, leaving behind him a legacy of
musicians as widely dispersed as David-
son’s alumni.

Par

Activities Tax |

aad

(Continued from page /)

midget from the-yegr before; receiving’

3000 less than requested...
‘, They were also concerned: that a re-
Serve fund which the ATC'sets aside for
emergency allocations has been: erod-

ing. Last year the ATC granted a total of '

$66,000 to these organizations, $6600

RORY oy Re

more than the $59,400 raised from stu-
dents fee for the year. -

The ATC recommended raising the
fee last year. Business Manager Bob
Currie said last year, “I feel it should be
raised $10.” This year he feels the same
way saying, “If we can increase student
fees to cover it, and having had no in-
crease in a couple of years, I feel we
need one.” Currie said he saw few other
options besides cutting back on the
number or size of the publications. Ter-
ry, who serves on the ATC, echoed Cur-
rie’s sentiments. “I think it is reasonable

“to ask for an increase.”

Cauley feels that the increase is war-
ranted, especially considering that The
Davidsonianran into financial problems
this yéar and their allotted budget this
year was less than last year. Cauley says
other newspapers at schools of compar-
able size get significantly more money
than the The Davidsonian. He pointed
out that compared to The Davidsonian' s
$13,000 budget of last year, Middlebur-
y's paper received $18,000, Carleton
received $17,500, and Williams 14,000
combined with alumni contributions to
bring their total budget to $25,000.

Cauley cites rising printing costs and ine. .
flation as taking the major bite of the ..

Davidsonian budget.

Quips & Cranks Editor Jim Reese al-
so feels. the increase is desperately
needed. Last year the yearbook asked
the ATC for 28,000 but received-only

$32,000.. Reese says now that: they -
‘could have made it with $24,000, but -
they hadito. work hard:at fundraising to. .

make up the difference. He admitted
that the yearbook gets help from adver- -
tising, but that considering the state of
the economy, ad money is no longer a

«. Sure thing. He pointed out that not long

ago the yearbook did not have any ads.

Reese added that many schools sell their
books as a way of taking in extra in-
come.

Hobart Park, the student literary

magazine has also made a plea for more ~

money. Past Editor Dave Banks was
only able to put out two issues despite
enough good material for three, accord-
ing to an article in last year’s Davidson-

ian. Darryl Cooper, a representative for
Hobart Park said that last year’s book
cost about $1500. an issue but this was
only because they were able to get most
of the printing done at cost. That won't
be the case next year, he said, and the
cost of two issues will be closer to
$3600. Hobart Park received $3001 last
year from the ATC.

Coal

ve pO ge
aye
Camp Thunderbird

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men
and women who are interested in serving boys and girls
ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and spirit-
ual development. Only those persons who will dedicate
their wholehearted efforts to helping each individual child
develop his or her potential should apply. One must have
ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities.
College students, teachers, and coaches should apply,

CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles se

of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp
specializing i in water sports (sailing, water ‘akilig. i
ming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed nt

jnem

land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, n

and backpacking).

mer, Jr., Director,

Horseback riding, white-water, canoeing and tripping
he. are extras in our excellent program.

For further information write or call G. William Cli-
p Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50,

Clover, S.C. -29710 (8 5 831-2121),

7

“THE DAVIDSONIAN/21 January 1983
