The Davidsonian/Friday, April 15, 1983 9

‘
‘
%

ht ee Re ee We

a

ter:

arene

Colin the Magician

C. Shaw’s Wacky Wizardry

By STEPHANIE BRUCK

Professor C. Shaw Smith Jr., when questioned about
his remarkable upbringing, remarked that traveling with
his father’s magic troupe during the summer was a real
eye opener. In visiting hundreds of college campuses,
they got ‘‘a feel for what was going on,” from tiny lowa
colleges to Berkeley, where Lenny Bruce played the
same day.

The C. Shaw Smith Magic Show, a benefit for The
Artworks, will appear (and disappear) in Love Au-
ditorium at 3:00 tomorrow. Tickets are $2 for students
and children, $4 for adults at the Union box office.

Of course, these magical summers meant that Shaw
Jr. couldn’t play Little League — quite a sore point —
and while most teenagers are stuck with mowing the
lawn, Shaw remembers that “the rabbits and doves were
the bane of my existence.”

All the young Smiths still travel a lot, and their care-
er choices have been affected by their years of touring.
There’a a traveller, an actor, a choreographer, and an art
historian who chose his field in the Louvre when the

show went to Europe. And, as Shaw Jr. said, “Teaching
is really prestidigitation.”

One of C. Shaw Sr.’s favorite aspects of the new show
is that it spans three generations, including grandchil-
dren. The new generation of “and company” boasts son-
in-law professor Joseph Gardner (Shaw, Sr. claims to
have the only magic show with two PhDs). Gardner
said, “I’m going to do something students have asked me
to do for years — disappear into thin air.” His two chil-
dren, Tate and Beth, replace the now grown-up younger
Smiths.

Since the troupe first reformed last summer at Mon-
treat, Beth has been trying to make her dolls disappear.
Tate demonstrated his supreme confidence in C. Shaw
Sr. when he told those struggling to set up the stage, “My
granddaddy can just put woofle dust on it, and it will be
fixed perfectly.” Dr. G’s faith in the magic is a little
more mature: “I was promised when I married Nancy
that I would be told all the secrets behind the illusions on
my wedding night. I didn’t realize until a week later that
I had forgotten to ask.”

And the show itself? Says C. Shaw Smith himself,

“It’s a silly, corny, friendly show. It is not a family out-
ing with a lot of kids running around. I would want you
to judge it professionally, but because of my age, be
kind.” The combination of silliness and high quality pro-
fessional magic makes this show special. Rather than
just trying to amaze people, Shaw does magic that’s fun.
“I like silly magic that is pleasant and surprising and
cute.” Shaw’s most prized compliment comes from his
own hero, Noel Lester, a great magician of vaudeville,
who said “You see a lot of magicians around, but you're
a real entertainer.”

C. Shaw the showman is very excited about return-
ing to the Davidson stage, where, as a student, he was
known as Colin the Magician. College President Grier
Martin thought Colin’s profession was a bonus when he
became Union Director: “It'll take a magician to live on
what we're going to pay the man.” Shaw obviously
hasn't starved yet, and he’s logged quite a few thousand
miles, been president of the major organizations in his
field, known people such as Isaac Stern and Douglas
MacArthur, and played everywhere from Purdue to the
Sultan’s palace in Casablanca.
