The Bonn Peace Rall

Everyone carried a lunch bag, ?**-

By FRED BROADWELL ’83

Last June, about six of the JYA-Marburg students
took a day trip to Bonn, West Germany.. We. were
headed to join an anticipated 400,000 people at the

“Grosse Demonstration,” organized to protest the nu-
clear arins race coinciding with President Reagan's at-
tendance at a NATO summit meeting. __-

The day the demonstration was announced, we saw
the posters and spray-painted signs on the sidewalks;
on the bridge to the cafeteria the megaphones blared:
“Demo! Bonn! 10. Juni!” Feeling the need to protest
what I believed to be the misguided foreign policy of
the United States, I bought a ticket from one of the uni-
versity political parties sponsoring a chartered bus.

some. carried, § ,

At 8 a.m. on Juneil fA Was on of

day holidays in Germany), we boarded the double-

length bus chartered by the Young Socialists) the uni-
versity arnt of the Social Democrats). 1 had tried to
dress as European as possible to avoid being constantly
spotted as an American. Many of.the students had
brought along buttons and signs and banners; I had
brought along my lunch bag.

The drive took about 4 hours, including a stop at a
very crowded rest area, where dozens of other buses
were stopping. On the Autobahn, bus after bus passed
by, each one full of students and headed to Bonn. Our
driver parked on the outskirts of town, near the begin-
ning of one of the parade routes. We followed the
crowds that streamed to an open field full of “demon-
strators” and people selling everything imaginable:
Cokes, cookies, peace jewelry, and books on “revolu-
tion.”

At 12:30, when we set off in the parade, what im-
mediately surprised me was how cheerful and amusing
the marchers were. Teens on bicycles, babies in car-
riages, and children in wagons weaved in and out of the
procession of adults and banner-waving students. A
guy in front of us had a bottle of alcohol and breathed
fire every so often to amuse the crowd. After an hour of
walking through the countryside, we passed under the
Autobahn leading into town. The police had made it in-
to an enormous parking lot, and there were buses shim-
mering as far as the eye could see.

The day became very hot. To help out the
marchers, people who lived along the route put out
cups of water and, in the city, friendly onlookers

The Waitress Bleu

By JEFF HERRIN ’83
and JOHN KROTCHKO ’83

The waitress is never coming back. With mid-win-
ter blues and mud-winter weather come this third cer-
tainty. Screaming out of the flexible continuum and in-
to our fate. Such is the experience of a Monday night
java junkie, and such experience is ours. Taking such a
plane-Jane statement and burdening it with the label of
fact requires substantiation — substantiation which we
are not prepared to give: the waitress is never coming
back.

The wonder of technology, the sprouting silver cy-
linder takes us, flying yogins all. Legs hooked over the
leading edge, we hurtle away at breakneck speed. Legs
edged over the leading hooker, we brake back at turtle-
neck speed. Going and coming, defying Zeno and de-
lighting in volition, we revel in the absence virgule ab-
stinence of the waitress.

Meanwhile, back at the bench, we do a number on
Godel while Pascal blazes. As well he might, as he
would be quick to point out.

For example (e.g., ¢.g.), take the Par Three (3),
well-known local hotspot and den of vicissitude. Three
pool tables, twelve feet of bartop, one junkbox, and nc
waitress‘ She never returned.

And look at Davidson College Grey Union Café:
ice cream, pizzas, video games — a regular Chuck E.
Cheese’s. Half o’dozen people milling around in regu-
lation Eating Service attire, and no waitress. She never

These two situations, counter examples to the in-
verse of my original statement, by modus ponens indi-
cate, ceteris paribus, post hoc ergo propter hoc falla-
cies not-withstanding, an a postiori banishment of our
waitress.

‘

“Napkins, please, can we have some?” No re-
sponse, the inquiry echoes in the hollow vacuity that
was a waitress.

The orange library dots are inconsequential. Some,
in fact, are red. We climbed up there once, pushing up
half o’dozen fire-resistant panels. The orbs, if they
conceal our waitress, conceal her well.

“The resulting shift in verisimilitude led to a less
than satoric state. Perhaps escape into contiguously fit-
ted garb is realizable — you know, altered suits.” We
don’t buy this hypothesis for an instant. Reeks of gar-
lic.

“Waitress, get your dharma in gear and over here!”
springing full-grown from Zeus’ mouth. The sprouting
silver cylinder, by now a récurring theme, hearkens
back to the black-and-white news reels of early forties
movie houses, wherein all the world was a silver
scream. And no waitress to speak of, so-to speak. (To
turn a friendly phrase.)

Swampboat (Devil Dog, Orphan, Guest Editor,
Features Editor, Etc.) despairs for an answer. He lan-
guishes on the snow throughout most every crisis.
Dead or not, he has a point: if looking doesn’t help,
then why bother? We can accept this attitude, as we are
lazy.

Laziness not to be construed as unconcern, we
should (and do) hasten to add.

For wherein lies our social awareness, if it not be
posited in a concern for a lackadaisical waitress? Rhe-
toric in our face, we respond to the activist call with no
little peevishness.

The terms of the contract look dubious from both
ends of the polarities involved. Whether or not Krishna
is a Big Blue Meanie has little to do with the weighty
dregs of political caucusing that waft in and out of Her-

y..

poured buckets of water from their apartment win-

. dows, creating a cooling shower. We hear lots of hum-

orous cheers and slogans, such as “Freies Bier statt
Atomwaffen!” (“Free Beer Instead of Atomic Wea-
pons!”).This festive atmosphere was dampened when
the radio announced that a man had purposely set him-
self on fire and was severly burned. The students
around us commented how absurd this act was, and
then slowly the mood returned to normal.

By the time we arrived at the central point of the
demonstration it was 3 p.m.. and we were so hot and
tired that we just listened to the speeches and drank our
mineral water. The speeches condemned the arms race
in general, and specifically asked the NATO countries
not to deploy Pershing missiles in West Germany. The
300,000 people applauded when appropriate and
played with a huge earth ball which bounced among the
sprawling crowd.

After about an hour of this we had to head back to

- our bus. Along the way I saw a German policeman giv-

ing directions to a couple of rather radical-looking stu-
dents. Looking at that encounter I realized that the Ger-
mans truly wanted a peaceful answer to the thomy dif-
ference of opinions revolving around the nuclear arms
issue.

schel’s feeble, hash-saturated consciousness. It is
somewhat apparent in such cases of fizzling idologies
about to topple that the demagogic propagation of mul-
tiple fissionable shibboleths compares only meekly
with the limited psychosexual foresight of xenophobic
situation objectors. This brings us around once again to
the increasingly tiring realization that the absentia of
the working class is not a unibimocal phenomenon, oc-
curing only in vacuums such that tenuously exist in the
wishfully hypertrophic analyses of the bourgeoisie.
“Kalumptszce-tza,” as certain debatably Hungarian lo-
cals claiming that ethnocentric status proclaim (Zsi-
Zsi, 1978), tends to embrace that all-encompassingly
formidible axiom that aspires to hallmark the evolution
of our culture: genetic Marxism. Yea, even here in
America. Herschel’s feelings do not change, nor do
ours, even as the surrounding pathos of the vaporous
blue collar persona continues to engulf us as if we were
prehistoric beasts, engaged in mortal combat whilst the
tar pits drag us into an inexorable petrochemical fate
(LaBrea, Calif., 30,000 B.C.). A solemn note to pond-
er, this, not tempered in the least by the transitory grati-
fication of “no tips.” Above it all, the Blue One dances
away the ages. To paraphrase a recent socio-political
drama, “On Highway 57 . . . Pump Boys . . . and
Dinettes.” But where, after all, is that?

Rhetoric in our face again, we take our leave, leave
our bill, and head for home.

Jeff Herrin and John Krotchko are Features Editors
Emeriti, a condition that has driven them to live togeth-
er, alone, in a quiet corner of Duke.

eee cS OUT TE TST ESS SPT TT EE SE ee ae aS PTE REESE EL

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983

17
