2. Friday, November 11, 1983/The Davidsonian ;
. : the Regionals tournament in February. Invitational tournaments may be in the
Summer Internship In Washington Offered offing at Georgia Tech, Tennessee, UNCC, and N.C. State while the team
’ Applications are now available for a summer progam of work and study in hopes for a NIT bid at Emory in March. Until then, keep an eye on the intramural
Washington, D.C., sponsored by the Department of Political Science. The tournament from the Green Room.
eight-week program will begin shortly after the conclusion of the academic year
in May, and run through mid July. The 12 to 16 maximum students involved will Sacred Music Convocation Planned
- serve as interns in a Washington-area office (e.g., congressional office, govern- William Albright, renowned concert artist of organ and piano, will be the
ment agency, or interest group ‘office) and enroll in a seminar offered by a visiting artist at Davidson's 24th annual Sacred Music Convocation here at
Davidson faculty member mn residence. Students who successtully complete we Davidson. Albright is also known as an interpreter of classic ragtime and early
program will receive two COUTSE C its: one pass/tail creat tor the infernsnp jazz styles in addition to his origionally styled church music.
and one rope ean nr the vantage of a Davidson professor living in Also featured will be Arthur Lawrence, organist-choirmaster and associate
is program offers the adv ‘ “The Ameri ist.” Wil
Washington during the program. The faculty member will coordinate activites, we h oWitln D Lawing acd Joe! Haman Wel, ‘Ccwing. and Harrison are
including placing students in internships, preparing and leading the seminar, members of the Davi dson music faculty. ; , ,
monitoring student internship performance, and generally adivisng and assisting Workshops will be held Friday at 10:30 a.m. in Hodson Hall on “The Spirit
Stace will be tailored to Davidson students’ needs. and the College will of American Rhythm” and at 3:30 p.m. on “Current Trends in Church Music.” A
be ol heen itor and control the quality of the program, 8 celebration of the Holy Eucharist will begin at 3:30 p.m. in Davidson College
able to monitor and contro . . ; .
Presbyt Church, feat dt t rf d by Welsh
Interested students should contact Political Science professor Thomas Kazee an dLawing. At 8.15 p - "Albright will | rform an organ Pcital ywe’s
(Chambers 327) for further information and application forms. Co mpleted ap- Saturday's 9 a.m. workshop will address “New Music for the Church.” An
plications re submitted to the Department of Political Science by De- 11 a.m. concert in Hodson Hall will include music by Albright, the Davidson
cember 15, 1983. College Concert Choir and Instrumental Ensembles, Lawing and Harrison.
Persons interested in attending the workshop should call the Davidson Col-
lege department of music at 892-2000, ext. 357, for information. All concerts
Students, Faculty Receive Awards are open to the public without charge.
The following persons were presented awards at Fall Convocation in Love ° °
Auditorium last Sunday: Davidson EMTs Available To Help
Thomas Jefferson Award: R. Bruce Jackson. The Emergency Rescue Service of Davidson College is available 24 hours a
Goodwin-Exxon Award: Kenneth W. Niebuhr, Margaret E. Barron, Mary ‘ay to answer emergency calls.
P. Fant. Comprised of 21 trained and certified Emergency Medical Technicians, the
Department of the Army Superior Cadet Awards: Andrew H. Myers, Wil- ERS has the essential equipment ordinarily carried on an ambulance. Their
liam E. David, Lauren A. Hightower. emergency telephone number, 892-303 1, is manned by a registered nurse at the
Alumni Association Award: Stuart Leonard Cooper, James Stephen Doc- College infirmary. After receiving a call, the nurse dispatches the Rescue Ser-
kery II], Karl Arthur Lorenz. vice to the scene. Because most EMTs live on campus, they can be at campus lo-
Omnicron Delta Kappa Service Awards: Victoria A. Neale, George S. —Cattons within minutes.
Thompson, Debra J. Williams, Andrew H. Wells, Paul D. Henson, Lindsey “A course will be taught winter term for all interested in becoming EMTs.
Ann Rader, William E. Shreve, Sarah R. Hughes. The only fee will be textbook costs.

: Any group interested in a course in Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation can
contact the ERS for information; the squad contains a trained CPR teacher wil-
ling to teach CPR methods.

College Bowl Varsity Opens Season
The College Bowl ’Cats started their varsity season last weekend by travel- 1984-85 Semester Calendar Officially Adopted
ng to ome: saly tine wheted eo avpete from all over the Southeast ume gang nowins calendar has been officially adopted for the Academic Year
son finished second despite starting three new players. First Semester:
College Bowl Driver Chris Blake piloted the team in style via the Dodge Tuesday, August 28, 1984—Classes begin
Uberbiis to this round-robin tournament. Each team played on Friday night and October 12—Fall break begins
Saturday morning to complete eight matches against teams such as Emory, October 17—Classes resume
‘Mercer, Georgia Tech, Tennessee, and the host, Berry College. November 22-23—Thanksgiving Break
Playing their own distinctive brand of Kuenn Bowl, the "Cats compiled a 7-1 November 26—Classes resume
record, averaging over 240 points per game and losing only to Emory. After Friday, December 14—Last day of classes
eight matches, Emory was also 7-1, so a playoff match was necessary to decide Examinations—December 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21
the tournament champion. In a cliffhanger that included six lead changes,
Emory answered the final question to win the match, 255-215, and the tourna- Second Semester:
ment. Monday, January 14, 1985—Classes begin
Although the last match was a tough one to lose, the happy-go-lucky ’Cats March 8—Spring Break begins at 5 om.
surprised all the detractors who whispered “rebuilding year” when the Class of Monday, March 18—Classes resume
*83 graduated four College Bowlers. Peach Brothers Captain John “Eggman” April 5—Good Friday Holiday
Hot fee taumaehe AP Sisk made the all-tournament team, and the Eggman Mohday, May 6—Last day of class
. Final examinations—May 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14
Spring is the season for College Bowl, so the ’Cats may not play again until May 19—Commencement
NEW PERMANENT WAVE a
HAIR DESIGNERS = 1/2 OFF - |
STUDIO Order in advance—
237 Catawba Ave. BAM $5.00 off . Wine & Beer by the case:
rmetiu oO
(in rear of the Southem — (Male & Female) Cost plus 10%
‘Energy Buliding) . Keg beer:
MON-SAT 10 AM Until ; Trissy Lomax, owner _ Cost plus 10%
CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE 128 S. Main St-Davidson, N.C
$5.00 .
|[No Appointment Necessary "___ Call 882-3129 or 892-4982] 892-7521

