Friday, November 4, 1983/The Davidsonian 11

SPORTS

542 Yards Total Offense

Furman Spoils Davidson Homecoming 55-/

By SCOTT HUIE

David may have done it, but for
Davidson to have beaten the Goliath
known as the Furman Paladins last Satur-
day, it would have taken more that just a
slingshot.

In the 55-7 Homecoming loss,
Davidson finished its inaugural season in
the Southern Conference — well, at least
since 1973 — with an 0-5 record. Going
in the opposite direction, Furman ad-
vanced to 6-1-1 making the game an
ideal warmup for their post-season plans.

The Paladins played nearly perfect
football, rolling up 542 yards in total of-
fense, 398 of which came on the ground.
Of their eight touchdowns, five came on
long grind-it-out drives, while three re-
sulted from Davidson turnovers.

In light of the rout, could there possi-
bly be some consolation? “Well, [Fur-
man Coach] Dick Sheridan told me they
kept their first string in longer than they
had in their previous couple of wins,”
Coach Ed Farrell said.

First string, second string, club foot-
ball team, whatever — Furman came to
play. “Without a doubt,” Farrell said,

“they are. the glass of all the teams we
play.”

In the first half, Davidson looked re-
spectable despite falling behind 21-0.
But after the homecoming queen was

Faces ASU Tomorrow

By BOYD BLACKBURN

Quarterback Keith Martin

picked, the Paladins returned to the field
and scored three quick touchdowns to put
the game well out of reach.

Peggy Pierotti

“In the first half we played well,”
Farrell said. “But by the time the second
half rolled around, we were just drained
physically. Their superiority really came
through and they just outmanned us.”

Two bright spots have been the play
of wide receivers Jeff McSwain and
Todd Hermetz. “Those two have consis-
tently made big catches all year,” Farrell
said.

None bigger and none more spec-
tacular than the ones they made on
Davidson’s fourth quarter 83-yard
touchdown drive. Sandwiched like meat
loaf between two defenders, McSwain
timed his leap perfectly and come down
with a patented Lynn Swann 30-yard re-
ception. In a similar fashion five plays
later, Hermetz eluded a host of defenders
and hauled in a one-handed catch for a
13-yard TD, his fourth of the year.

Other impressive performances to
date: freshman halfback Mike Cate,
who, as the Cats’ top rusher, has 292
yards on 73 carries (four yards average)
and ranks among the Southern Confer-
ence leaders in all-purpose running with
925 yards; linebacker Will Bynum, who
has 68 tackles and five sacks; and defen-
sive end Jerry Grubba, who has 61 tack-
les and five sacks.

Summing up the team’s perfor-
mance, reserve wingback Alan Rosier
said, “Of course, we’re disappointed.

But we feel we still can go out with a
couple of wins. We still have that ‘eye of
the tiger’, so to speak.”

What stands between the Cats and a
victory may not be Clubber Lang, but
rather the Bucknell Bisons (2-4-1), who
take on Davidson tomorrow in Pennsyl-
vania. Bucknell holds a 9-3 lead in the
series, which includes a Bison win last
year at Davidson, 21-0. After winning
their first two games, Bucknell has lost
four and tied one.

When Farrell came to Davidson ten
years ago, he brought with him the in-
famous Wing-T offense, which has often
befuddled opponents (Furman Coach
Sheridan said Davidson’s Wing-T al-
ways causes them problems). Tomor-
row, however, the Cats face an opponent
with the very same offense. In terms of
strategy, both teams will probably be
very predictable.

“Bucknell seldom is explosive on of-
fense but do a good job of creating tur-
novers and capitalizing on them,” Farrell
said. Unfortunately, turnovers have been
the Cats’ downfall this year.

The Bisons are on a backward spin,
so the time may be ripe for an upset. But
I'll go with the odds.

Huie’s Prediction:
Bucknell 28

_ Davidson 27

Soccer Team Prepares For Championship Run

With only two games left in the regu-
lar season and possibly one in the cham-
pionship, the verdict is still out,on this
year’s soccer team. Whether all the pain,
the blood, and the sweat were worth it
will be determined tomorrow against Ap-
palachian State University as each player
strives to give his personal best. The par-
ents will be treated to the most crucial

and intensely competed game of the-

year.

In Boone, Davidson narrowly beat
ASU a month ago. The 3-1 score belies
the fact that the game was evenly played.
For the last 15 minutes, ASU’s attack
was unstoppable. Luck and a good goalie
kept the ball out of the net. Remember
also that the Wildcats’ third goal came
with just three seconds left.

ASU has been playing well since
then. They tied N.C. State — a team that
is ranked fifth in the South (Davidson is
ranked 8th). They are 3-2 in the confer-
ence. A win tomorrow would put them in
a three-way fie for first in the northern di-
vision. To determine who plays in the
championship, a coin toss would be held
with ASU, Marshall, and Davidson hav-
ing equal chances.

However, Davidson holds the upper

hand. They are 4-1 and need only a tie to

Peggy Pierotti

Tony Cabrales chases after the ball
win the division. In addition, it appears

they have pulled -oit- of a late’ season -

slump after the 6-0 cakewalk over VMI
on Wednesday.

The Wildcats were awesome as they
worked the ball over the field in the first
half, but all their shots ended up in the
woods behind the goal. The only goal
they got was a header by Mike Lufkin off
a pass from Mike Mauzé. It was incredi-
bly frustrating for Coach Charlie Slagle

to see his team dominate so completely
mad be only ‘one gdal ahead. A™tucky
break for VMI at any time could have
tied the game.

That break almost came for VMI
early in the second half, but their forward
hit the ball into the side of the netting.
The play woke Davidson up. A string of
three goals within a minute and a half
made Coach very happy. Tony Cabrales

got two of them, one on a beautiful heel

pass from Mauzé who was a dominating
force the entire game. Cabrales’s other
goal was a classic instep drive just inside
the far post. Bryan Shockley got the first
of his two goals during the span. Coming
from the right side he hit it straight over
the goalie who was expecting a cross.
Shockley’s second goal was amusing in
that Davidson keeper Jim Kelly got the
assist. Kelly cradled the ball after a VMI
attack had been squelched. One big punt
and two bounces later (with a little help
from Shockley’s foot), the ball was in the
goal. Sean Moser scored the final goal on
a penalty kick.

The game was a big relief after a
lackluster Homecoming game resulted in
a I-! tie with Furman. Steve Bernhardt
made the goal in this game. After that
goal Davidson relaxed and lost their in-
tensity. When Furman tied the game, the
Wildcats could not get back on track and
embarrassed themselves in front of the”
large crowd.

The soccer team is in a position to
win the first conference title for David-
son in any sport since women’s tennis
turned the trick in 1973. Soccer is | 2-3-2
overall. The remaining games are ASU
tomorrow, Wake Forest away on Thurs-
day, and maybe the conference cham-
pionship next Saturday.
