Billy Bob Meets Santa

Booze Brothers experience close shave with insanity

Over Christmas break the BB had a close shave with
insanity. What we saw will continue to haunt us fore-
ver. It happened like this:

Heading south on I-85 outside of Atlanta, we real-
ized it was time to eat. We ducked into a convenience
store to get the news on where we could enjoy a decent
semi-feast. The girl behind the counter with wire-rim
glasses and matching braces gave us our options:
McDonalds, a Pakistani kebab emporium Or a very ex-
pensive French restaurant featuring valet parking and
outlandish prices for red meat. We shook our heads si-
multaneously in disgust. Thek Ms. Metal suggested
what was to be our “bright and clever hell” for the ev-
ening. Pizza? Sure! And with that we jumped in the car
and proceeded unknowingly to our destination . . .
somewhere near the outer reaches of anit-reason.

The exterior of this restaurant revealed nothing about
what waited inside for us. However, we did notice a
run down, balding family man waiting near the en-
trance, holding a blue balloon in his hand. Why?!/! We
pressed on. Nearing the entrance, we noted that the
building was way too large to be just a pizza restaurant.
We noticed a sign next to the door: “Tonight: Billy Bob
meets Santa.” Our curiosity piqued, we entered. We
weren’t ready for what we saw.

Screaming children darted through a labyrinth of
sound and light. Disregarding the shrieks and howls of
the demonic little sprites, we beheld before us nearly
50 or more video games smiling at us as machines
sometimes will. As we stumbled onward from one
large room to the next we came upon the musical enter-
tainment for the evening: huge mechanical animals,
maybe four or five, and they were . . . singing. We
heard these horrible monsters sing Christmas pop
songs. The chanting of the crowd—all small children-
—was unbearable. We came upon machines that pro-

Video video video video video video vi-
deo video video video video video video
video video video videovideo video vi-
deo video video video video games.
See? Momma always said you'd see
double, or triple, or... .

Features

Photo by Anderson Scott’84

duce helium-filled balloons, a contraption lays eggs
with small prizes in them (while the mechanical chick-
en demonically cackles) and a device that dffers
young, impressionable minds the chance to spar with
the anti-Christ himself. This game was called “Whack-
a-Demon”. The idea here is for the child to use an over-
size mallet and smash the little pistons with the devil’s
face on them as they pop up . . . one after the other. Ab-
solutely horrifying. The next room down the corridor
featured football on a big screen: a quiet refuge for
burned-out parents who eventually grow tired of the
hellish squealing of their piglets. We noticed Santa
cowering near the phone booths, hiding from the child-
ren.

We ordered a deluxe pizza and with our order re-
cieved one token each enabling us, with help of these
smiling machines, to embark on a senseless killing
rampage. Between us we destroyed 28 robots, 5 figh-
ters, and leveled New York twice. However, the ma-
chines were teasing us, they dealt with us handily . . .
smiling all the while. That’s when a horrible paranoic
thought became etched on our collective mind: are

these “people” here actually human or are they, too,

products of a machine? Obviously there was no an-
swer, so we quickly finished our pizza and got the hell
out.

As we fumbled for the car keys, we stole one last
glance at Show Biz Pizza and all we could think about
were huge, yellow smiling face buttons impaling all of
humanity one by one with their sharp pins. As your can
tell, at this point we were absolutely livid and were
lucky to make it back to the interstate.

Show Biz Pizza Inc., a restaurant-entertainment
chain slowly strangling the southeastern United States
has a location in Charlotte: “Chuck E. Cheese’s Pizza
Time Theatre” on 4120 E. Independence Blvd.

‘

} Good typists needed
Make good money and learn
a useful skill at the same time.
_ Surround yourself with
intriguing people. Challenge
your manual dexterity. Not a misprint.

For more information,

call Ann 892-611:

An equal opportunity. employer.

10

Home 892-6573

THE DAVIDSONIAN/? January 1983

If you want to publicize an event,
| party, meeting, talk, or
just any general occurrence which
| your. club, group, or organization |
may be conducting, please contact:
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Advertising Department
Office 892-2000 ext. 149 Frank J. Hague IV
Jeffrey W. Danese
