Friday, December 7, 1983/The Davidsonian 5

Joe Park

The Union President is essentially re-
sponsible for coordinating the activities
of the Union Board. Along with the So-
cial and Co-curricular Vice-presidents,
he is responsible for selecting committee
chairmen, delegating certain responsibil-
ities, and organizing activities.

However, the president’s role is more
than strictly business. In a sense, the
president is also responsible for the
image of the Union. Although the Union
is a student-run organization which pro-

Mary Griffin
And
Hunter Roddey

We are two juniors, Mary Griffin and
Hunter Roddey, who are running for
freshmen advisors with more in mind
than being freshmen for a third year (a
scary thought!) or getting free food from
the Dean’s office. We feel we have ac-
quired the necessary administrative ex-
perience from serving as treasurer of an
eating house, on the Patterson Court
Council (Mary), J.V. club tennis presi-
dent, and rescue squad secretary
(Hunter). Much more importantly, we
are both current hall counselors and have
a curious affection for freshman.

We remember what it is like to be
freshmen, and would like to help make
next year’s “freshman experience” reach
its potential.

In the role of freshmen advisors we
would hope to continue the good work
done by Rob Spaugh and Katie
Dagenhart this year. One of our primary
goals would be to select the best hall
counselors, as fairly and nonpolitically
as possible. We see the importance of
scheduling the hall counselor selection
process early enough so that it will not
conflict with exams, as it sometimes has
in the past.

We ‘look forward to next year’s
freshmen class and hope to be a part of
planning their orientation. Our ultimate
goal for orientation would be a proper in-
troduction to Davidson without a fren-
zied pace.

As freshman advisors we would con-
tinue the precedent of regular hall coun-
selor gatherings. We would seek to
schedule enough meetings to help the
hall counselors develop a self-support
group, without overburdening their often
hectic days.

We cite two particular problems for
the freshman class. Facing the continu-
ing ambiguity of the self-selection pro-
cess, we would work closely with the
Self-Selection Committee, the Patterson
Court Council, and the hall counselors,
to ease the difficulty for freshmen.

Also, we would hope to clarify the re-
lationship of the new drinking law to the
freshman class. We want the class of ’88

_tpinow where they stand.

Union President

vides services and activities that benefit
the entire college community, most stu-
dents do not seem to be aware of the
Union’s actual and potential value. The
president should then work to promote a
greater awareness of the social and cul-
tural experiences that the Union has to
offer. If the president can make the
Union more appealing, more students are
likely to get involved in the Union.
Greater student involvement should be a
major goal of the president.

Union implies a sense of together-
ness. The Union President must insure
that the members of the Union Board

Freshmen

A current problem with the freshmen
advisor program is that few people know
what the job really entails. The first and
most obvious duty of the freshmen ad-
visors is the selection of hall counselors.
We place equal emphasis on the job of
acting as “hall counselor counselors.”
We want to be accessible to freshmen,
but our main function would be as a
source of support for the hall counselors.

Harding Erwin
_ And
Paige Marsh

As active hall counselors, we are able
to evaluate the hall counselor program.
As freshman advisors we would like to
improve upon the program by making
changes where we see they are needed.

We commend the present freshmen
advisors on their excellent job in keeping
us informed and organizing meetings,
and relevant speaker presentations, in
addition to serving as an essential source
for adviced and assistance.

We would like to continue the good
work that Katie and Rob have done.
Some changes that we would like to see
are:

1)An extension of the hall counselor
training program to at least that of the re-
sident advisors, which consists of a more
thorough examination of social problems
(such as eating disorders and drinking
problems), first aid, and leadership
roles.

2)To inform the hall counselors ear-
lier (than two weeks before we arrive)
and provide more information about the
freshmen who will be on their hall in
order to help them better prepare for the
coming year.

3)An increase in the relationships be-
tween the freshmen and their academic
advisors.

4)To involve the freshman football
players during the orientation week.

5)To change the name of freshman
advisors to hall counselor advisors — as
the role is to advise the hall counselors
more than it is to advise the freshmen.

Freshmen advisor’s responsibilities
include: 1) helping to select the hall
counselors, 2) working closely with the
dean of students office, 3) organizing
training programs for the hall coun-

work together successfully. In a larger
sense, the president must also insure that
the Union works successfully with the
rest of the college.
Park’s Union involvement includes:

Pop Films Committee

Games Committee

Chairman of Gallery Committee — on
current Union Board.

Thomas Evans

Look at the Union. It provides outlets
for leadership; through the chairing of
committees, creativity; via the Games

Advisors

selors, 4) aiding in the planning of
freshman orientation, 5)coordinating the
freshman orientation, 6) coordinating the
freshman council selection and ac-
tivities, 7) evaluating the hall counselor
program and implementing changes
when necessary, and 8) assisting the hall
counselors by providing advice based on

and Publicity committees, intellectual
discussion; through the Women’s Con-
cerns Committee, Speaker’s Committee,
and Artist’s Series. And there are still
countless other opportunities offered. I
don’t think enough people realize all the
opportunities in the Union. If elected I
plan to publicize and open up the Union
to fresh minds and fresh ideas. This
should be a major goal of the incoming
President.

With good organization and sound,
inventive choices for committee leader-
ship, I believe the Union can come to life
on campus.

their experiences as hall counselors.

We feel that the hall counselor pro-
gram is very important in assisting the
freshmen in making that transition from
home to college. We plan to work hard to
meet the full potential of the program.

Please vote for us on Tuesday, De-
cember 13

Union Vice-President

Mike Jester

1. I feel that one particular fact helps
qualify me for vice-president of the so-
cial council, and that is my position on
the union tech crew. I am not only a
member but happen to do all the schedul-
ing for the tech crew. As a result I have
become familiar with many of the union
board members and know many of the
activities and events for which the union
board is responsible. Another fact that I
feel qualifies me for this position is that I
spend a great deal of time in the union
and generally know what is going on at
all times. |

2. If elected one thing I hope to
accomplish is the increase of participa-
tion at union social events. As I have
worked on the tech crew this year, I have
seen how low attendance usually is at the
shows scheduled by the intimate perfor-
mances committee on Friday and Satur-
day nights. I think it is a very sad state of
affairs, because many of these perfor-
mers have been, and Iam sure will con-
tinue to be, quite good. I feel that as So-
cial Vice-president, it would be my re-
sponsibility to determine ways to bring in
more people to performances and to the
union as a whole, because’a large amount
of the fees paid by a student to attend
Davidson goes to the union, and it is a
shame for those students who rarely enter
the union not to be getting their money’s
worth.

3. I feel that the role of vice-president
is to be a student advisor to the commit-
tees of the social council, to help each
committee when and if it needs help, to
help coordinate the activities of the social
council committees, and finally to be the
main coordinator for the big weekends,

homecoming, midwinters, and spring
frolics.

Ross Hunter

The social half of the union provides
several services to the college communi-
ty. It is primarily a source of entertain-
ment and diversion which attempts to up-
hold the ideals of creativity, quality, and
a degree of wholesomeness. The union
strives to sponsor events which appeal to
a large portion of the students. This am-
bition is important because interaction
among various social groups increases
campus unity. Also all students should
have access to alternatives to spending
all day and all night in the library.

The union officers are responsible for
insuring that the committees of the union
remain productive. To achieve this end
the officers recruit and select willing and
responsible committee chairmen. Re-
cruiting may be the most important part
of the job since the chairmen carry much
of the load of initiating, coordinating,
and scheduling the activities of the
union. Once the board is selected the So-
cial Vice-president tries to keep the com-
mittees active, innovative, responsive to
students, and on budget. He also coordi-
nates many of the activities for big
weekends.

I feel that there are two main areas
which need to be more heavily stressed.
First, the activities, particularly on big
weekends, should be targetted and prom-
oted for a larger number of students. Sec-
ond, the Union officers should attempt to
build more interest in holding Union
Board positions.

I served on the Union Board (last
year) as Games Committee Chairman
and feel prepared for this job.
