2 _ Friday, October 21, 1983/The Davidsonian

Mountain Musician Will Perform

David Holt, host of the Nashville Network cable television series “Fire on
the Mountain” will present a concert of old-time mountain music and storytel-
ling October 21 at 8 and 10:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Holt brings the spirit of the Southern Appalachian Mountains with tales told
and tunes’sung and played on many unusual instruments including jew’s harp,
harmonica, dulcimer, banjo, guitar, and spoons.

Holt lives in the mountains of western North Carolina, a community rich in
traditional music. But he wasn’t born into it. Central Texas was his home, where
the only music in his family was five generations of bone players. It was while in
college. at: the University of California at Santa Barbara — from which he re-
céived his B.A., Magna Cum Laude, in Creative Studies — that he first became
aware of traditional music.

- Davidson to Celebrate Homecoming Oct. 29

Davidson College will welcome alumni and friends to the campus Oct. 29
for its annual homecoming celebration. A full schedule of events is planned, in-
cluding the dedication of a new three-hole golf facility, named for trustee How-
ard W. Covington of Greensboro. The new facility is located adjacent to David-
son’s baseball diamond, on the north side of the campus. The Covington Open
Tournament will follow, offering alumni the chance to compete for numerous
prizes.

Also at 9 a.m., the current women’s tennis team will host a continental
breakfast and a round-robin tournament for alumnz tennis players. The event
commemorates 10\years of women’s tennis at Davidson.

Reunion class |receptions will be held at 10:30 a.m:,
Homecoming Alumni Luncheon in Vail Commons at noon.

Homecoming athletic competitions include an 11:30 a.m. soccer game
against Furman at Sprunt Field and a 2 p.m. football game, also against Furman,
at Richardson Field. Fraternities and eating houses will host receptions after the
football game.

More than 50 graduates who were prominent in Davidson’s theatre program
will attend a champagne reception and dinner before watching a performance of
Davidson’s current production, You Can’t Take It With You. The play will begin
at 8:p.m. in Hodsori Hall. ‘Special exhibits of costumes and photos from former
productions will highlight: the department’s history.

At9 p.m. there will be a campus-wide dance at Vail Commons, with music
by the Spongetones.

Registration for alumni will begin at 8:30 a.m. at Vail Commons. Special at-
tention is being given this year to alumni who graduated during the past five
years. |

The Class of 1978 will jump the gun with a reunion cookout Friday night,
and for alumni who can’t wait until Saturday, there will be Friday night concerts
at 10 and 11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union by “Flight 108,” a
jazz band.

Ticket and other information about any homecoming events is available by
calling the alumni office at 892-2000, extension 110.

followed by the

Christmas Gift Fund Chosen

This year’s Christmas Gift Fund will go to the Gethsemane Tutorial Program
at the Davidson Community Center. The program offers after school help to
slow learners in grades three through six. The Davidson Y Corps provides vol-
unteer help, but the tutorial program desperately needs funds to operate in 1984.
$10,000 is needed to run a successful tutoring program, including the expenses
of two paid teachers, aides, and materials.

The Chapel Committee is planning a Campus Flea Market to raise funds for
the 1983 Campus Christmas Gift Fund. The money raised will be presented to an

~ organization or group which the campus feels assistance is most needed.

Members of the Chapel Committee will come by dorm rooms within the next
three weeks to collect any items students wish to donate. T-shirts, posters, and
any other items will be greatly appreciated. .

Nominations Taken for Goodwin-Exxon Award

The Goodwin-Exxon Award shall ordinarily be presented to one student
from the sophomore class, one student from the junior class, and one student
from the senior class, chosen by a committee made up of students, faculty.and
administrative staff on the basis of his her quality of life in the campus-commu-
nity during the preceding year.

The Goodwin-Exxon Award is designed to recognize qualities other than un-
usual accomplishments in scholarship, leadership and sports. Its purpose is to
select students who typify the kind of cooperative support of campus activities
and warm, caring relationships with fellow students which many observers have
remarked upon as being important elements of the campus lifestyle at Davidson
College.

The award shall take the form both of a plaque recognizing the recipient and

_ of acash grant, a part of which the individual is asked to contribute to a charity of

her/his choice.

To receive the Goodwin-Exxon Award a student should represent the high-
est standards of Davidson College in character, good sportmanship, friendli-
ness, consideration for others, high ethical standards, faithfulness to duty, en-
thusiasm, tolerance and a concern for the unfortunate.

Last year’s recipients were Brad Mullis, Pete Skillern and Debra Williams.

Nomination forms may be picked up in the Dean of Students Office, the
Union desk, and the Library. Deadline is October 27, 1983, 5:00 p.m. Forms
should be returned to the Dean of Students Office.

Yugoslav Dance Troupe to Perform Oct. 24

The Yugoslavian dance troupe Frula will perform at 8:15 p.m. Oct. 24 in
Love Auditorium as part of the Davidson College Artist Series.

Founded in 1964 by Dragoslav Dzadzevic, former artist-director of the
Branko Krsmanovic Ensemble, Frula hs become one of the most successful
ethnic ensembles in the world.

Its premiere in Belgrade led to a Central American tour that was hailed as a
triumph. Additional tours followed, and the company is now making its fifth na-
tional tour of the United States, winning widespread acclaim for the brilliant
theatricality of its song and dance performances.

Frula consists of some 40 dancers, acrobats, folk instrumentalists and sin-
gers whose average age is 21. Many of them were trained at the Frula School of
Dance in Belgrade, which Dzadzevic organized in 1969 to ensure a supply of
young dancers for his company.

The company’s dances encompass many moods from the seven republics
that comprise modern-day Yugoslavia. Critics have praised the group for its
brilliant costumes, its exuberance, and its energy.

Admission will be free to season ticket holders of the Artists Series, and re-
maining seats are available for $7 each at the box office in the Davidson College
Union. Box office hours are 2 to S p.m. Monday through Friday. Further infor-
mation is available by calling the College Union at 892-2000, extension 140.

Drama To Present “You Can’t Take It With You”

Martin Vanderhof’s living room is a place where meals are eaten, plays are
written, snakes collected, ballet steps practiced, xylophones played, and print-
ing presses operated. It’s also the set for the three-act comedy “You Can’t Take
It With You,” by Moss Hart and George S. Kaufman.

The. Davidson College theatre department will present the zany play at 8
p.m. October 28-29 and November 4-5, and at 7:30 p.m. November 3 in Hodson
Hall in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center.

Directed and designed by Joseph Gardner, assistant professor of theatre and
speech, the 1936 comedy features the whackiest collection of characters to be
seen on any stage.

Ultimately, Grandpa Vanderhof’s wisdom shines through. “The world’s not
so crazy,” he says. “It’s the people in it. Life is pretty simple if you just relax.”

_ Ticket prices for the Davidson production are $4 for general admission and
$2.50 for students and senior citizens. Reservations and additional information
will be available at the box office, telephone 892-1696, from 2-5 p.m. Monday
through Friday starting October 17.

b

NEW PERMANENT WAVE
HAIR DESIGNERS 1/2 OFF
“STUDIO _
237 Catawba Ave. HAIR CUT & STYLE
* Comeliue $5.00 off
(In rear of the Southem (Male & Female)
Energy —_—
MON-SAT 10AM Until
CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE

No tricks,
just special Halloween
treats at

Natural Resources

Trissy Lomax, owner ;
128. S. Main St.-Davidson, “N.C.
28036
892-7521

|No Appointment Necessary = $8:00 ai 0n.5129 or son-aneal|

