4 Friday , October 7, 1983/The Davidsonian

More New Faculty Members Interviewed

By JOHN GATHINGS

Editor’ s Note: This is the final part of a
two-part article on Davidson’ s new pro-
fessors for 1983-84.

Gail Gibson

Gail Gibson joins the faculty of
Davidson College this year as an assis-
tant professor in the English Department
and as a specialist in medieval English
literature. She did her undergraduate
work at Duke University, received her
master’s degree in medieval studies in a
joint program with Duke and the Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and
received a doctorate in English from the
University of Virginia. Since 1975 she
has served as an assistant professor of
English at Princeton University.

Gibson is the second MacArthur as-
sistant professor to come to Davidson.
When asked to clarify this title Gibson
responded: “It is a special endowment
[to] encourage people involved in a seri-
ous way with research to come to a small
college.” Research is a very important
element of Gibson’s life; she considers it
personally rewarding because “you
know yourself when you know people
from the past. You are suddenly making
contact with this person across the cen-
turies and celebrating that.”

Davidson Community Welcomes
Freshmen International Students

Gibson’s goals include finishing her
book, going on to new research projects,
and building up new courses at Davidson
in medieval history. “I come with a lot of
missionary zeal in increasing interest in
the medieval period.”

In addition to her other classes, Gib-
son will be working with the Humanities
program next year and is currently at
work helping to revise the program. She
likes the interdisciplinary approach of
Humanities because “I believe in giving
a .three-dimensional view of medieval
history rather than a ‘strip-mining pro-
cess’ which is what you get in high
schools.” Gibson also wants to spend the
summer in Europe to continue her re-
search work.

ROTC Department Additions

Army Captain Donald Kropp and
Major Peter C. Theodore have both
joined the military science department as
assistant professors. They both have pre-
viously done work in the army in the field
of communications and are going to re-
main here at Davidson for the next three
years.

Kropp graduated from Arizona State
University in 1973 with a major in adver-
tising. He is airborne and ranger qual-
ified and has done work in the Signal
Corps. He has had assignments in Japan,

Panama, Puerto Rico, and most recently
Korea.

Kropp was in an ROTC program in
school and has been in the army for a
total of ten years. When asked about his
decision to make the army a career he re-
plied, “I wanted to do something un-
usual. The army allows you to do things
[that] civilian life doesn’t.” In the future
he wants to do more tactical work and to
go overseas. “I enjoy being in Korea,” he
said.

Theodore graduated from Eastern
Nazarene College in Boston with a major
in English. He also has a master’s degree
from Florida State University in com-
munications theory and research. He has
been in the service for fourteen years and
last November received his promotion to
the rank of major.

Unlike Kropp, Theodore was drafted
into the army and then went to officer
candidate’s school. Once he got involved
Theodore “. . . liked it very much; the
discipline, the excitement, the chance to
travel and also the responsibility you
have for others.” He specialty is com-
munications, particularly interpersonal
communications. “I prefer the more
human side, dealing with people and
ideas rather than equipment.” In the fu-
ture, Theodore hopes to be reassigned to
a tactical unit in Europe. Also, later on he
hopes to “cycle back into education.”

Center for Special Studies

Leon Bendesky is the new Fullbright
lecturer at the Center for Special Studies.
He did his undergraduate work at the Na-
tional University of Mexico and received
master’s and doctoral degrees in
economics from Cornell University. Be-
fore coming to Davidson he worked as a
researcher and teacher at the Institute of
Latin American Studies in Mexico City.

Bendesky explained the Fullbright
title as part of a program of exchange
with other countries. He is currently a
seminar on the development of economi-
cal thought in Latin America from the
1950s to the 1980s. Next term he will be
conducting two more seminars.

While working at the Institute in
Mexico City, Bendesky did research on
the financial problems of Latin America.
The Latin American region offers inter-
esting challenges for social scientists, he
said. The results of the research done at
the Institute is compiled into reports.
Bendesky served on the editorial board
of the department doing the Latin Ameri-
can work.

He also spent part of his time at the
Institute teaching some the graduate-
level courses. He feels that the combina-
tion of research and teaching is a good
experience. “The classroom is an excel-

_ lent space to project your research and

get their feedback,” he said.

DUKE

By TED WILSON

Four freshmen have come overseas to join the
Davidson community. The students, who represent
China, Belgium, Venezuala, and Lebanon, are among
the fifteen International students on campus.

Of the four freshmen international students, Bilal El
Amine, from Lebanon, is the only one who has not pre-
viously attended a school in America. However, Bilal
explains. “I had been going to American schools all over
the world, including Saudi Arabia, England, and Bah-
rain, because there are no high schools in Saudi Arabia.”

He adds, “It was a big change to come to college
here, but because I have lived in so many places. I can
more easily adjust.” Bilal notes that “Davidson is bigger
than the American schools.overseas.”

Guillermo Giuini, from Venezuala, attended a New
Hampshire prep school for three years before coming to
Davidson. He attended school in Venezuala until sixth
grade and then went to an American school in Caracas
through the ninth grade.

Laure Van Dierdonck also spent three years in the
United States before coming to Davidson. Laure, origi-
nally from Belgium, lived in Wrightsville Beach, N.C.

Sampson Law of Hong Kong attended Woodberry
Forest, a prep school in Virginia, last year. He also at-
tended and spoke English at a Lutheran school in Hong
Kong from grades seven to eleven.

The language barrier-has affected the students todif=

ferent degrees. Sampson says that “writing and reading
English is’ my biggest problem; it takes-a lot of time to
complete my assignments. However, math and science
are not that bad.”

Guillermo notes that “when I first went to New
Hampshire, communicatign was a problem. But now
people don’t even suspect that I am foreign.” Guillermo
spoke English at age four but didn’t write it until he went

to school in New Hampshire. Bilal attributes his good
English background to having spent most of his life in
American communities.

The four international students see distinct differ-
ences between Davidson and the universities in their
homeland. Laure notes that the American schools ‘are
different but better” than the Belgian schools. “There are
more athletics here, it is harder academically, and the
people are nicer,” she said.

According to Guillermo, “Davidson has smaller
classes than the Venezualan schools have. Thefe is much
more diversity in courses here. People socialize more at
Davidson.” He adds, “at Davidson, everyone gets closer
in a shorter amount of time, but the relationships are not
as strong as they are in Venezuala.”

Sampson believes that “the students here don’t study
any more than the students in Hong Kong do. Its more
relaxed here and and the Davidson student body is more
active. The two systems are the same educational wise.”

Neither Bilal nor Sampson saw the campus before
arriving. Sampson agrees with Bilal, who says that “the
town is smaller than I had expected.” Bilal adds that he
pictured the buildings looking different.

Laure, who visited the campus before September,
feels that Davidson is “very nice and what I had expected
it to be.” Guillermo says he came down during SGA

Weekend and fell in love with it.

Bilal and Guillermo hope to return to their homeland
someétimé ‘after, graduation, though Lauré:has no desire
to go back.-Sampson does not know whether or not he

wants to return to Hong Kong. However, while he is

here, he is very interested in teaching Tae-Kwon-Do, in
which he has earned a black belt, to interested students
and staff. He and his brother, who is thie champion in

~ Hong Kong, have taught classes there. Marty students

saw Sampson demonstrate his skill at the Freshman Tal-
ent Show.

THE FUQUA
SCHOOL
OF BUSINESS

The Fuqua School of Business at Duke
University offers one of the finest available
opportunities for unsurpassed professional
management training. We are interested in
men and women who have proven aca-
demic, leadership, and social abilities.

Jane-D. Novick
Associate Director
of Admissitens & Financial Aid

of the Fuqua School
will be on campus

Monday, October 24.
Appointment information may be obtained
by contacting:

Office for Experiential
Programs & Life/Work Planning

