ae

-Valume LXXIl, Number 12

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Monday, 14 February, 1983

Humanities Under Fire

Faculty asks Dean to rescind letter

BY DAVID RESNIK ’85
AND MIKE TANTILLO ’85

The faculty endorsed a Humanities
program request that Vice President of
Academic Affairs and Dean of the Fac-
ulty T.C. Price Zimmermann rescind
his letter of 3 February 1983 by a vote of
79-8 in a called faculty meeting. ~

Zimmermann sent the letter to
members of the Humanities staff. It an-
nounced the appointment of Professor
of Philosophy and Acting Chairman
Earl MacCormac as the single director
of the Humanities program and called
for “a major revision of the Humanities
program.”

“A major revision of the academis
program should have been jointly
agreed upon by the two [Humanities]
staffs and the administration,” said Di-
rector of the Second Year Humanities
Staff and Professor of English Anthony
Abbott.

The twelve members of the Human-
ities staff who submitted the request
found “the manner of the decisions and
their method of presentation both a vio-

lation of the faculty’s constitutional pe-
rogitives and a discourtesy to those indi-
viduals involved in the Humani’‘es pro-

gram.”

They believe Zimmermann ignored
Article III, Sections 1 A and IF and Sec-
tion 3 of the Davidson College Constitu-
tion in his letter. According to the con-
stitution, “The Presdient and Vice Pres-
ident for Academic Affairs share with
the faculty responsibility for proposing
Educational Program and Policy,”
which includes “curricula, curriculum
requirements, and academic standards .
. . establishing regulations and chang-
ing of academic departments.”

“The letter of the law is not clear,
but the spirit of the law is,” reminded
History Professor Earl Edmondson.

Zimmermann has not yet decided
whether he will rescind his letter.

President Pro-tempor of the Faculty
and Religion Professor Dr. David Kay-
lor thinks that Zimmermann “will see
the wisdom” of the faculty’s request be-
cause it is “a reasonable request” and
Zimmermann is “a reasonable man.”

He offered no comment as to what

the Faculty will do if Zimmermann re-
grets their request, adding that “nothing
like this” has happened in recent years.

Zimmermann based his revision
proposal on an evaluation of the Hu-
manities program conducted by the con-
sulting team of Harold Martin, Marvin
Levich, and Jed Rabb (see related arti-
cle).

First Year Director of Humanities
and Religion Professor Max Polley ex-
pected tht Zimmermann “would work
with” the first- and second-year Human-
ities teams. He said that the Dean did
not consult either team and that the con-
sulting team “never met with the Hu-
manities staff as a whole.”

The Humanities staff had already
held a meeting to discuss ‘revisions on
31 January 1983. Zimmermann’s letter
took them by surprise. “We didn’t know
that they [the administration] had any
inclination for a new director or a revi-
sion,” said Polley. Kaylor think Zim-
mermann should have use the letter
“only as a last resort.”

See accompanying article on page 6

Students to Self-Select

By JEFF HOLLAND ’84

Freshmen received forms last
Thursday for this year’s self-selection.
The forms were due Sunday and will be
run. through the computer Monday
night. The results should be posted

'Fuesday outside Dean of Students Will

Terry’s office.

Freshmen selected an eating house
by one of two methods: listing three dif-
ferent houses, in which case they will be
put in the first house with an available
space; or “shotgunning” — raming only
one house. If they “shotguaned” and no
space is available in the house, they will
be put on that house’s waiting list.

If no space is available in any of

their three choices, the students will be

put on a general waiting list. After a
one-day waiting period, they can have
the Dean’s office move them from the
general list to the waiting list of their

The assignments will be made using

the computer this year, and this is ex-

pected to speed and simplify the pro-
ateoacuseenas © Pethens Me

An_ eight-member Supervisory
Committee on self-selection, a sub-
committee of the Patterson Court Coun-
cil (PCC), headed by Freshman Advi-
sors Crittenberger and Mike Mason,
will hear complaints on the part of both
students and houses if there is any prob-
lem. Crittenberger advises that anyone
with a problem conceming self-selec-
tion contact'a member of the commitec.

Other members of the i
(Rusk), Lisa Herard (Emanon), Cam-
bria Melton (EFC), Lee McCormick
(PAX), Rob Spaugh (SAE), and Ed
Whitesides (PiKA).

Responding to suggestions that the

fe fresh Cri
berger said that freshmen were given a
number of chances to find out about the
system. “They should know they have
to meet people if they’re going to get in
a house,” she said. “I don’t think it is
our job [the Freshman Advisors} to tell
them, “Well, by this point you should
know this many people,’ and so on.”

Dean of Susdents Will Terry agrees
that problems exist in communicating
the self-selection system to students. He

said they have held big meetings in
Love Auditorium for all freshmen, but
many did not come. Terry said this was
a little early in the year for students to
comprehend fully the system. This
year, he said, they tried to work through
the freshman halls and hall counselors,
but problems still seem to remain. He
said, “If someone could come up with a
good way of communicating these
things to freshmen, it would be great. A
large past of the problem, | think, is with
misinformation.”

Confusion may be due in part to a
decreased emphasis this year on specific

i a house sets for accepting
students. Both Terry and Crittenberger
felt these rules (such as meeting 10 per-
ceat of the house or knowing a certain
number of officers) were too hard to en-
force. Terry said that enforcing such a
houses found themselves trying to draw
specific lines. “Everyone loses that
way,” he said. “It backfired on every-
one.”

(continued on poge 6)
