2 Friday, December 2, 1983/The Davidsonian Special Edition

Semesters: Pedagogical Losses

Dr. David C. Grant

Having arrived at Davidson with the implementation
of the Blue Sky Curriculum and the three-term calendar
in the fall of 1968, my only teaching experience (outside
of instructing in summer courses at the Marine Biologi-
cal Laboratory in Woods Hole, Mass.) has been under
our present calendar. On the other hand, my own under-
graduate education at the College of Wooster was under
a traditional semester system, and I know that experi-
ence provided a very important part of my background.
While at the Duke University Marine Laboratory during
the fall terms of ’81 and ’83 I had a very good opportu-
nity to observe the manner in which Duke ran its own fall
semester (early version) and, at least this past fall, to try
to imagine how our own Off-Campus Biology Term
might work under such a calendar.

Although I was disappointed in the faculty decision
to return to a semester calendar, I know that I would be
able to teach under one. My concerns are for the number
of curricular and pedagogical losses or disadvantages
that I perceive in a change from our present calendar, not
all of which were as clear to me at the time of the faculty
vote as they are now. It is obvious that a number of dif-
ferent factors contributed to the individual decisions that
produced the final vote. Certainly the unique concerns of
individuals and departments were weighted differently
by different faculty members. We are all becoming more
aware of our colleagues’ different concerns. It is possi-
ble that some of these concerns may not have been
widely perceived in the faculty in the original delibera-
tions because of lapses in communication between the
“outlying” departments in the sciences and arts and our
colleagues in Chambers.

At least two other factors contributed to the vote that
need to be mentioned. One is that student opinion (in the
form of the very high percentage referendum vote which
was overwhelmingly in favor of remaining on the term
calendar) was largely removed from faculty considera-
tion by the manner in which that “student opinion” was

Virtually all | hear from
Current and past students and
their parents is regret that

we are planning to change

the term to an early semester

presented at the crucial faculty meeting in the fall of
1982. While I have no statistically significant data base
on current opinion, virtually all that‘ I hear from current
and past students and their parents is regret that we are
planning to change the term to an early semester. Many
of them mention the curriculum, calendar, and level of

faculty/student contact as major, desirable differences in
a Davidson education.

The second major factor in the decision, as I see it,
was a response to real or imagined administration pres-
sure for demonstrated scholarly activity on the part of the
faculty, which is most easily seen in the form of publica-
tions. Although this pressure is felt by many faculty
members, it is the new or younger, usually untenured
faculty, with relatively few years of experience with
Davidson’s version of a liberal arts education, who are
most susceptible to it. An obvious way to increase the
faculty’s professional published output is to reduce its
time-consuming contact with students. One of the stated
advantages of a return to the semester calendar was a re-
duction in faculty/student contact, allowing more facul-
ty time for scholarly pursuits. In terms of Davidson’s
Statement of Purpose and the criteria for promotion and
tenure, not to mention its reputation, the student contact
and the quality and dedication to teaching that go with it
in a liberal arts undergraduate education should remain
paramount and not be jeopardized. (In my opinion, this
means not even for scholarly output.) Perhaps the most
frequently stated advantage of a change to an early
semester calendar is that it would make our programs
coincide with those of an increasing number and perhaps
absolute majority of academic institutions.

Using as an example the Duke and Davidson marine
experiences, I would have to say that our program is bet-
ter from the undergraduate point of view and from the
point of view of undergraduate education. Our program
has always been oversubscribed with qualified Davidson
applicants while Duke’s has only been filled by transfer
students (about 20 percent this past fall) and by non-sci-
ence majors (about 10 percent this fall in what has not
been a very successful experiment). From the standpoint
of undergraduate education, the Davidson program re-
quires all students to pursue academic work in three dif-
ferent approaches to biological science and in all three,
the students have guidance from Davidson faculty who
are readily accessible. Several, if not most, of the Duke
faculty are primarily research appointments and are rela-
tively inaccessible to their students except during sched-
uled class meetings. If you have something that is better,
why trade it to be like everyone else?

One of the sides of the question that has received in-
creasing attention from faculty during the past year is the
difficulty of meshing calendar and curriculum. It seems
as though every “solution” creates more problems or is
itself unacceptable. A personal example (one of my own
oxen that is likely to be gored) is the above-mentioned
Off-Campus Biology Term, which may not be possible
or practical under a Davidson early semester calendar.
The program is already somewhat suspect from the ad-
ministration’s point of view, because it currently in-
volves “too much teaching” and does not lend itself well
to concurrent faculty research or scholarly pursuits. In
spite of this opinion, I believe (biased though I am) that it
is a very valuable curricular option.

I am also concerned that it will seem that the easiest
way to operate such a program on an early semester
would be to merge it with the Duke semester. I believe
we (mostly the Davidson students) would lose in the
merger. Other personal oxen involve curricular changes
within the Biology Department that are likely to be “dic-
tated” by a switch to the early semester. Such things as a

reduction from two terms to one in the introductory biol-
ogy sequence for majors and pressure to reduce the
number and variety of 100-level courses offered are pro-
posed as the way to make the transition. The only specif-
ic gain — four extra labs in courses which currently have
one lab per week — is offset to a significant degree by
our offering significantly fewer different courses, and by
the loss of labs in courses which now have two labs per
week. This, coupled with reduced lecture contact,

Many of these concerns have
their counterparts in the

arts and language departments,
at least, and perhaps to some

extent in every department.

erodes that previously mentioned, important aspect of a
Davidson education — a high level of contact and avail-
ability of faculty with and to undergraduates.

The problem of available lab space is a shared con-
cern of other science departments. Many of these con-
cerns have their counterparts in the arts and language de-
partments, at least, and perhaps to some extent in every
department.

The closer we get to actually implementing an early
semester calendar the more we seem to run into difficul-
ties in fitting our curriculum to it or in accepting the fact
that we need to return to a semester curriculum in order
to make a semester calendar work. Under the system I
experienced as a student, the faculty taught more courses
with more lab sections than we are currently able to see
ourselves handling. Even the addition of a full-time lab
preparator would not eliminate the congestion in lab sec-
tion scheduling or restore the small group contact and
off-hours availability of labs to students which we now
enjoy. Credit hours (recently rejected here by the facul-
ty) were, in my semester experience, a means of appor-
tioning both student and faculty loads. Some courses,
with fewer credit hours, met for fewer hours total so that
a single class hour schedule worked for all days of the
week. I firmly believe that the calendar within which we
choose to operate should allow us to do the best job with
the curriculum that we feel is best. Even if we were fully
to implement an early semester calendar that offered as
much faculty/student contact as we currently have, with
credit hours to distribute the load, credit, and appropri-
ate number of class meetings per week, we would still
not be able to offer a number of a curricular options that
we do now on the term calendar.

Again, while there is no doubt that we can certainly
function under an early semester calendar, it seems more
and more apparent that more and more faculty and stu-
dents are concerned that the benefits gained by such a
change are far outweighed by the educational losses in-
curred.

Grant is an Associate Professor of Biology.

the editorial board.

This special edition of The Davidsonian is designed to provide a forum for dis-
cussion of the semester/trimester issue. In order to ensure balanced coverage,
we solicited opinions articles representing specific viewpoints. We distributed a
flyer encouraging students to express their opinions, and we also received un-
solicited articles and letters. We have printed all the responses we received. If
one side appears to be emphasized, it is due to the nature of the responses. The
opinions expressed within this special edition do not necessarily reflect those of

Ann Meador, Editor

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Lisa Thomas, Compositor

Jeffrey Mann, Duncan Fraser, Contributors

A regular issue of The Davidsonian will be published Wednesday, December
7. The final issue before Christmas will follow on Wednesday, December 14;.

1

Mike Stephens, Special Edition Coordinater

David Resnik, Executive Editor

Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Kevin Horan, Production
Richard Cloudt, Graphics

