8 Friday, May 6, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Herb Jackson: |

The artist meditates through painting

By STEWART CAULEY

In 1967, Herb Jackson’s last year as a student at
Davidson, the senior class gift was a painting. Installed
in the old union building, it was a huge acrylic mural.
Not immediately accepted by everyone on campus, an
April Davidsonian interview with the artist revealed that
a Mrs. Bordeaux thought it was “the senior class hoax”
designed to do away with class gifts and Religion profes-
sor Alexander McKelway asked it it was finished the day
it was started.

Even though the mural was town down with the
building, its artist is still here. Jackson was perhaps
Davidson’s most colorful, quirky art student and now
he’s its best-known professor. Although Jackson isn’t a
household name, he is becoming a major figure in the art
world. His work is included in almost every major
museum in America. Spread nationwide, public collec-
tions with Jackson’s art include The Whitney in New
York, the Ringling Museum in Florida, the Boston
Museum of Fine Arts, and the Utah Museum in Salt
Lake City. In 1982 he had three one-man shows, includ-
ing Princeton Gallery of Fine Art and Oxford Gallery,
England. His eight solo exhibits this year include DBR
Gallery in Cleveland; Impressions Gallery, Boston; Na-
tional Academy of. Sciences, Washington, D.C.; and
Hodges/Taylor in Charlotte. The two-year exhibition
schedule for his drawing show organized by the Mint
Museum in Charlotte (open through May 8) has stops in
eight cities, including Lisbon, Portugal; Huntsville, Al.;
and Edmonton, Canada. The list of Jackson’s shows
goes on and on: World’s Fair, 1982; Southeastern Center
for Contemporary Art in Winston Salem, 1983, Interna-
tional Transpersonal Association Conference in Devos,
Switzerland, 1983.

This year of sabbatical away from the chairmanship
of the Davidson art department has been a big break for
Jackson. “I didn’t plan on it working out this way,” he
said. “It was very synchronistic that the sabbatical came
at this time.” Keeping up with Jackson’s many shows
probably will not get any easier in the future. “A few
years ago if I wanted to show abroad, for example, it
would have been impossible. Now if I want to show in,
say, Paris or Germany, it’s feasible; something might be
worked out,” he said. His most recent one-man show at
Phyllis Weill Gallery in New York, containing both
drawings and paintings, sold out in two days. Arts
magazine will have a feature article on Jackson in the
pages of its June issue.

Despite the notoriety accorded Jackson this past
year, he remains quite ambivalent to the possibility of
becoming famous. He prefers living quietly in Davidson
to the “Art Star” life of new artists like Julian Schnabel
and David Hockney who end up in People magazine ona
regular basis. “A lot of fame, since the second World
War, has had to do with living a famous lifestyle. I just
care to live here.” Like a reminder, a small piece Jackson
did for a “Boxes” theme show at Spirit Square in Char-
lotte is propped up against a table in his studio. It is
mostly grey matter with a boxing ring in the center. Two
boxers stand amid the crowd. Stated in black across the
bottom is “FAME IS CATCHING THE CLAPS.” When
pushed on whether he wants fame, Jackson pointed to
the little “Boxes” piece and said, “That’s my theory of
fame right there, that’s it.”

Whenever Jackson is asked to predict .yhat might
happen to him in the future, his favorite response is, “I
don’t have a crystal ball. Nothing is certain.” It is safe to
say, however, that he will remain in Davidson for a good
while longer. He seems quite comfortable here raising
his two children Leif and Ulysses with his with his wife
Laura Grosch (rhymes with brush). Laura is also a
painter, and although her painting time has been limited
by raising the children, she recently held a one-woman

show at Hodges/Taylor gallery in Charlotte. Her art dif-
fers radically from Herb’s abstractions. Oriental rugs
and feminist pattern painters seem closely associated
with her work. Despite any artistic differences, Jackson
ind Grosch share a barn-sized studio in the woods be-
hind their house. Jackson’s side, quite suitable to his
Stately art, resembles a temple. It has white walls and a
sloping roof with small windows at the peak. It is clean,
spacious, and minimal. Grosch’s, like her art, is lively
with broad windows facing the woods and is cluttered
with newspapers, magazines, and paints. They often
paint at the same time and share ideas but Jackson says
somewhat jokingly, “We always knock before we visit.”

Jackson has spent most of his life in North Carolina
with only a short residence in Philadelphia. He grew up
in Raleigh and received an M.F.A. from Chapel Hill
after graduating from Davidson. While in grammar
school in Raleigh, Jackson studied the art in the North
Carolina Museum of Art. The old masters in that collec-
tion were his first teachers; he kept notes on them and
studied their technique. In the early sixties, while still a
high school student, he won first-prize at the annual jury
show in that museum; it was his first “break.” His win-
ning created quite a stir when the artist of the first-prize
piece was discovered to still be in high school. He came
to Davidson as a pre-med major but quickly changed to
art after a studio course. By the time he graduated he had
seven one-man shows to his credit.

Jackson credits two things as foremost in recent
thought about painting and life. Although they are not
direct inspirations as such, they seem to provide and
stimulate him. This summer will mark his seventh trip to
Greece. Jackson believes “Every person has a place
where they belong. . . I have Greece.”

“The first time I went to Greece,” he said, “I had the
distinct feeling of having been there before. . . I have
had a deep connection with Greece from the start.”

Jackson did a series of drawings in Greece in 1980
which he says were a “Homage to Greece.” Writing in
the March 1977 edition of Art News, Pamela Allard des-
cribes a print of Jackson’s called “Zamathu.” “Jackson’s
marks are not self-indulgent nor are they used to provide
a virtuoso treatment for an uninspired choice of subject,
as is so often the case in contemporary prints and draw-
ings. Instead, they reveal the scrutiny of an inspiration
from natural forms. Zamathu is a beach on the island of
Samos, where, during family vacation, Jackson enjoys
the effects of light playing on water.” When in Greece,
Jackson keeps an open eye on everything: graffiti, cul-
ture, art, nature, and people. Although they may not af-
fect his painting in any usable way, these impressions
lurk in his spirit, the way you might remember a vacant
lot or a stream in your childhood. Says Jackson, “I’m al-
ways expecting to look on the back of some Greek
sculpture and discover I did it 2,000 years ago. It
wouldn’t surprise me at all.”

The other strong inspiration in Jackson’s thought
seems to be psychiatrist Carl Jung. In his 1983 show
catalog published by the Mint Pamela Allard says, “Re-
cently, Jackson’s interestin. . .C.G. Jung has been re-
kindled. Jung’s concept of a collective unconscious in
mankind from which springs the universal symbolism of
dreams, affirms Jackson’s belief in his own working
methods and his commitment to maintaining the
spiritual core of abstract art.” Jackson sees Jung as a
clarifier through whom we can see our thoughts clearly.
Jackson view his work in a very spiritual, meditative
manner. For him painting is meditation. What happens
on canvas is as intuitively close to his soul as possible.
He hopes that his paintings will inspire their viewers to a
deeper understanding of their own spirit. Like the
Buddhist rose symbol, their layers peel back to reveal
new meaning at each new viewing.

What happens on canvas

1s intuitively as close
to his soul as possible.

