THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIill, Number 6

Slagle Refuses
Offer To Use
Football Field
For Soccer

By DAVID RESNIK

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 Friday, October 21, 1983

RISE HISGILE

Soccer Coach Charlie Slagle de-
clined an offer from Interim College
President Frontis Johnston yesterday to
let the soccer team play in Richardson
Stadium for its November 5 match
against Appalachian State University.
The football team plays at Bucknell on
November 5.

Slagle said he would have used the

By Laura McGee

Coalition head Debby Williams said
they brought the missile to “raise
awareness about the December de-

The Davidson Peace Coalition
brought a full-size 18-foot mockup of a
cruise missile to Davidson this week.

ployment of Pershing missiles in
Europe. It coincdes with the interna-
tional week of protest.”

field had he gotten permission at the be-
ginning of the season. He said he was
going along with a decision which the
athletic department had made, and that
since he was part of the athletic depart-
ment, he would comply.

Farrell thought the soccer team
should not use the field, because “it’s the
football team’s field.” He said that since
all teams have their own facilities, they
should be able to control their facilities.

Farrell said he made a similar deci-
sion when students requested the use of
the hockey field for a Spring Frolics out-
door concert. According to Farrell, he
was only applying the same policy to the
football field.

A Tuesday SGA Senate resolution
submitted by Todd Wiebusch prompted
Johnston’s action. Also, senior Lach
Zemp circulated a petition asking that the
team be permitted to use the football

field.
Johnston overruled Athletic Director

and Head Football Coach Ed Farrell in
offerring the use of the field. Johnston re-
ceived the SGA resolution and had talked

(Continued on page 5)

Proposal Declared ‘Premature’

By LISA THOMAS
In a letter to SGA President Hunter
Monroe, College Interim President Fron-

' tis Johnston rejected the SGA resolution

to present the faculty evaluation issue to
the Trustees.

After consulting with Vice-president
for Academic Affairs and Dean of the
Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann, the
Executive Committee of the Faculty, and
Chairman of the Professional Affairs
Committee, Alexander - McKelway,
Johnston wrote in his letter, “I find
unanimous among all these groups the
opinion that the resolution you [Monroe]
handed me October 11 is premature.”

Johnston said the section of the Col-
lege Constitution providing for the SGA
to request Trustee action on a particular
issue is for “exceptional circumstances
or emergencies,” and he did not feel that
this issue has reached that point yet. “Be-

Publish Or Perish:

Junior Faculty Face Growing Dilemma

By ANN MEADOR
As professors at large universities
face increasing pressure to publish schol-
arly articles in order to receive tenure,
Davidson continues to emphasize teach-
ing over research. New attitudes toward
~~~ the value of research. are
NEWS developing, however, as
some: faculty members
ANALYSIS show increased interest in
publishing as well as
frustration over the Administration’s at-
titude toward the relationship between
publishing and tenure decisions.
Reasons for an Increase
Some Davidson professors agree that
increased competition for professor posi-

tions has sparked interest among younger
faculty in publishing. “In the past ten

years or so, the job market has been glut-
ted,” said history professor David Shi.
“Colleges expect more than a PhD de-
gree when considering candidates for
positions.”

Further, because professors out-
number the available positions, David-
son can hire graduates of the finest in-
stitutions. °“Junior faculty. are coming
from the best graduate schools,” English
professor Randy Nelson said. “One can
clearly see them imitating their graduate
school mentors” in their pursuit of re-
search.

Vice-president for Academic Affairs
and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zim-
mermann said the faculty Davidson at-
tracts today are more interested in pub-
lishing than in previous years. “The in-

Je ” he added, “I don’t know what the
Trustees would do about it; they would
ies hand it back to us and say, ‘Work it
out.’” He feels that their _unfamiliarity
with the issue would hinder a Trustee de-
cision on the matter. Johnston also rests
assured that “some agreement will be
reached,” but could not suggest when.

Zimmermann was unavailable for
comment.

The SGA passed the resolution to re-
quest Trustee action at their October 11!
meeting. Since Johnston rejected the re-
solution the SGA could now demand
Trustee action but Monroe feels that “this
would be pointless if Johnston does not
feel that it is necessary.”

“The main concern now is that we
have a form for the students, and that the
form allow the maximum amount of
input appropriate to the evaluation pro-
cess,” Monroe said. “To go three straight

creased interest is not the result of admin-
istrative pressure to publish, but that
scholars want to exchange information
with each other,” he said.

“A natural outcome of serious re-
search is publication: Why would one
not want to communicate new knowl-
edge one has discovered?” he said.

_» Teaching vs. Research

The-College'’s Statement of Purpose
states, “In implementing its purpose to
promote higher learning, Davidson has
chosen to be a college, . . . toemphasize
the teaching responsibility of all profes-
sors, and to ensure the opportunity for
personal relationships between students
and teachers.”

Faculty opinion varies as to the way

(Continued on page 5)

Johnston Rejects SGA Resolution

terms without any student evaluations is
ridiculous.” He cited the Code of Faculty
Evaluation Procedures which says, “It is
appropriate that their [students’] views
be ascertained by means of interviews,
letters, evaluation forms or other
methods.” Monroe said, “This is not now
being done. I don’t understand why they
have waited so long.”

The SGA will now consider doing
their own evaluation, but no particulars
have been decided. Monroe said that the
SGA Faculty Evaluation Committee will
decide the best way to go about this.

Monroe also does not understand
why the faculty did not have another
form ready for use before they discarded
the Illinois Course Evaluation System
forms on February 1, 1983. The faculty
approved a prose evaluation form to re-
place the ICES, but in an April Davidso-

(Continued on page 5)

Inside This Week

‘Evacuation Plans: Davidson
prepares for the unthinkable. Page 3

‘Death: John McDermott gives
rousing lecture. Page 4

-The Fixx: Junior Scott Huie
spends a summer bumming around
concert halls. Page 6

‘Blow Out: Davidson's soccer
team improves its record to 10-1-1 in
6-0 Marshall win. Page 8

-Guns: Philosophy professor Stell
puts forth a rational approach to gun
control. Page 1! 1

