The Davidsonian/Friday, September 16, 1983 7

Dave Hessler and Mandy Barber went to Charlotte along with 35 other students
to sign up for phone service. At the Southern Bell center, students talked to Bell
reps through telephones as shown here

Phone Foul-Ups

(Continued from page !)

Bolding said he thinks the old sign-up
system “worked beautifully for the past
few years,” and he could not understand
why Southern Bell changed it. In the
past, the representatives came for two
days, handled all students who needed
phones, and approximately 85 percent of
the phones were activated within a day or
two.

He added that in the past, the list of
all student numbers was complete by the
end of the sign-up and the student direc-
tory came out quickly. Due to the confu-
sion this year, the directory will not come
out until the end of this month.

Bolding says he hopes that this situa-
tion will put some impetus behind the
idea of a Davidson-owned phone system
the way many other schools operate.

Monroe agrees with Bolding and says
that students should expect to hear more
in the future about the possibility of get-

o

_ting college lines. It will not be possible

until Southern Bell has completed their
structural reorganization, but the idea
has been considered and will remain a
possibility for Davidson. Monroe added
that not only would this do away with the
high installation fee and relieve frustra-
tion, but would also give students easy
access to WATS lines.

Roberts describes this year’s sign-up
as a “learning experience” and has sev-
eral ideas to make it run smoother in
years to come. She is compiling a
checklist for future sign-ups and may
work out a way for students to fill out ap-
plications prior to the representatives’
visit to Campus.

She encourages students who are not
satisfied to come into the Charlotte Ser-
vice Center because she wants to “get ev-
erybody as happy as possible.”

{Contact Capt. Paul Chambers at UNCC, Calvard 3059

(704) 597-4537

By Peggy Pierotti

sions Scholarshi

Semesters

(Continued from page 1)

According to committee co-chairman

* Beadsie Woo, the SGA is dissatisfied

with the current proposal. The Semester
Committee will hold the year’s first
meeting next week and then plans to
meet with the Faculty in order to form a
compromise on the issue.

One of the Faculty’s objections to the
SGA plan is that the fall term would end
three days before Christmas. Woo coun-
tered that the term might start earlier in
August.

If unable to reach a compromise with
the faculty, the SGA may hold a referen-
dum to demonstrate student opinion on
the matter. “The transition year is defi-
nitely going to affect the class of 1987.
They should have an interest,” said Woo.

Although the faculty voted last May
to approve in theory the credit-hour sys-
tem, it has not been worked out in prac-
tice. Vice-president for Academic Af-

fairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price
Zimmermann suggested that most class-
es receive three credits and lab courses
four, but this is not settled. The sub-com-
mittee is now soliciting the department
chairmen on which classes will be taught
under the new system, added Zimmer-
mann. ,

If all the major issues have not been
ironed out by January |, the semester
system will have to wait until the 1985-
86 school year, said College Registrar
Richard Burts. That date marks the dead-
line for the College catalogue.

The semester issue first emerged five
years ago. Religion professor Sam
Maloney headed a committee to design a
possible semester plan. The students re-
jected the change by a three to one mar-
gin ina poll last November, but the Fac-
ulty convinced the Trustees to proceed
with the process.

Senior Brad McCall accepts top honors from General
Richardson, head of Army training. Davidson cadets
finished first in the east coast region at the ROTC Ad-
vanced Training Camp at Fort Bragg, N.C. this sum-
mer. Cadets were scored on their leadership ability,
physical fitness, marksmanship, and land navigation.

ATTENTION

PREMED MAJORS

NEED FINANCIAL

ASSISTANCE?

The Air Force needs doctors. So, we may help

larship:

nage our college education with an Air -Foreo 88 re cee

- We-have three and two-year AFROTC PreHealth Profes-
s for qualified applicants. These scholarships

pay full tuition, lab and incidental fees, books, plus $100 a month (tax
free) during the school year. Upon completion of Air Force ROTC and bac-

calauréate degree requirements, you'll be commissioned as an Air Force second
lieutenant. When accepted to medical school, additional assistance for medical

school expenses is guaranteed with an Armed Forces Health Pro-
fessions Scholarship.

Get together with an Air Force ROTC representative and

ALRSEOR GE
ROTC

Gateway to a great way of life.

discuss these two programs. It may be the most import-
ant talk you've ever had about your future.
