Questioning the Patriarchy

Sonia Johnson touches on Neanderthals, Epiphanies, and Anita Bryant

By LAURIE NOTO’83
and ANNE HOCKETT °83

Sonia Johnson, feminist activist, excommunicated
from the Mormon Church for her views on women's
rights, and a hunger striker in Illinois for the ERA,
spoke Tuesday night as a part of Women's Week. Two
members of the Women's Concerns Committee talked
with Johnson earlier this week.

Why did you fast? Did you feel it was the only
thing you could do?

I didn’t expect that we were going to pass the Equal
Rights Amendment. We'd known that for about a year,
but I felt there was a lot of consciousness-raising op-
portunity out there. By this I mean it was important not
to let legislators in Illinois vote against justice for
women with impunity—not to see the faces of women
suffering and not to be faced with their decision. We
sat under a banner that said “Women Hunger for Jus-
tice” in the rotunda of the state capitol. They had to
pass us every day. They had to know what they were
doing was condemning 210 million women to second-
class citizenship. We wanted women in this country to
know that there were at least eight women who be-
lieved in their rights and were willing to die for them.

You say that you had an “epiphany” and that it
woke you up to the feminist call. Can you elaborate
on this turning point?

I understood where women were in this society,
despite all the rhetoric. I really knew where we were
and where we have been. It was one of the most painful
realizations | ever had.

What is your attitude toward religion now?

I became conscious of my questions on religion,
which is made by men, for men, which means women
are really disenfranchised . . . and that doesn’t interest
me. I am interested in feminist theology because it is
really an integral part of women feeling good about
themselves. We’re having a religious revolution. What
is happening is critical to getting rid of the patriarchy.
Organized religion has been one of the real evils in the
world (because it furthers the patriarchy).

Do you feel that the ERA is dead?

No... We know, however, because of wonderful
senators like yours in North Carolina that chances are it
wouldn’t pass the Senate at this point. So what we have
to do—what you have to do—is to defeat Jesse Helms
and not just defeat him but get in his place somebody
who really cares about human rights.

What do you believe Reagan’s stance on wom-
en’s issues is?

his. rhetoric is wonderful: ‘““Women are just terrific
and we’ll do everything we can to help them.” Then
he'll flip and say something like, “The cause of unem-
ployment is women in the work force—taking men’s
jobs.” Can you believe it? The man is truly Neander-
thal! Everything he has done since he came into office
has hurt women. Like Hitler, he’s looking for a scape-
goat. The powerless are always the scapegoats. It’s al-
ways going to be us—and the blacks and the Jews;
those who can’t fight back. The situation is really dis-
mal.

Assuming that the ERA is passed, what are
some tangible, visible changes that would occur?

One wonders how much effect it could have, and of

course it is a little speculative. But certanly; every state -

law that did not conform to it would be changed in ev-

ESR SY OMA ERP OE 2b SEE REO RED oP RR EER MT

Ms. Johnson in Love Auditorium

ery state. Instantly, bad laws would disappear. This is

the first thing we would see. If it’s on the books and in
the Constitution, a woman could take her case to court
and win. Today she couldn’t even get a lawyer. All
over the country people will be afraid to discriminate.
Even more specifically, you'll see property rights
changing. Property rights for women in this country
are abysmal. Marniage laws will be changed. Rape
laws will be enforced. Wouldn't that be terrific?

’ Many intelligent women believe that the ERA
entails a female draft. How would you respond to
this?

What people don’t understand is that the rules of

Some (of these women) interpret

what I say as, “I hate men...”

Every time in a patriarchy something
positive is said about women, it is
interpreted to be anti-male.

war are not dictated by the Constitution. the ERA
would have nothing whatever to do with the decision to
draft or not to draft: Women can be included in the
draft without the ERA.

We’ve heard you say that women need to be-
come more united, that they can be their own worst
enemy. What do you think might be a solution?

When I say that I am against the patriarchy [rule of
men], women who are against the movement recognize
somewhere in their gut that there isn’t a more subver-
sive statement to say. Those women out there are
afraid, and I understand that. I think we have to re-
member that they are sisters, and I don’t have any bad
feelings against them. My whole family is “them”! |

By Jeff Mann ’84

» RAR, APR BE DSL RAR RR

IDSONIAN/21 January 1983

Just always remember that you don’t ever need all the
members of a group to affect change. I don’t think we
have to convert them. What I think happens is that life
converts them.

Some [of these women] interpret what I say as “I
hate men. Every single man is terrible. Every single
man is an enemy.” Every time in a patriarchy some-
thing positive is aid about women, it is interpreted to be
anti-male. Because patriarchy means that we (in vari-
Ous ways) despise women. when you start saying,
“Women are wonderful, I love women, I'm so glad to
beone, I think women are terrific . . . we've got to rise
and do something about this mess the men have made,”
it’s taken as anti-male because it’s pro-female.

Learning against all odds to respect
-and love ourselves and other women;
‘that’s the very basis , the very
foundation of the movement

Do you feel that many women who don’t inter-
nalize the women’s movement do so because they
have never felt personally discriminated against?

Women who feel this way are becoming fewer and
fewer every day. My own conversion was not spurred
by any single discriminatory act against me personally.
Often something happens in life, slaps them in the
face, and they say, “Oh my God! So this is what they
were saying!” J mean, Anita Bryant came to. If Anita
Bryant came to, anybody can.

What would you say is the most important issue fac-
ing the women’s movement today?

I would say the most important thing for women to-
day is learning to love themselves in a society that hates
them, demeans them, and despises them. Belittles
them. Learning against all odds to respect and love
ourselves and other women; that's the very basis, the
very foundation of the movement.

Is NOW accomplishing this? Where would you like
to see the women’s movement go from here?

Well, NOW’s main aim is to get women into the sys-
tem and to get a bigger share of what's out there in the
system. But the system itself is corrupt and women
[run the risk of] becoming it. Women must say it’s not
okay to live in a society that’s agist, sexist, racist, and
Classist. When you say all we need to do is to get wom-
en into the legislature, all you're saying is, “The sys-
tem’s OK; it just doesn’t have enough women in it.”
Also, we get in so slowly that we are co-opted by the
system. For example, Margaret Thatcher is more war-
like than most men. Oppressed internalize the values of ©
the oppressor more than the oppressor!

What | would like to see is a Martin Luther King
come on the scene. The women’s movement is ready
for the equivalent. We also have to get unified and
brainstorm Utopia. We don’t even know exactly what
it is we want. We need a long-term strategy and then
say what stands in the way and find out what we can do
to be effective.
