The Davidsonian

Friday, March 18, 1983 7

Joe Beatty Resigns

Heads to Randolph Macon

By ROXANNA GUILFORD
Professor of Philosophy Joseph Beatty
has resigned effective at the end of the
academic year to become Chairman of
the Philosophy Department at Randolph-
Macon College in Ashland, Virginia.

Beatty says he resigned because “in a
word [it was] the promise of a permanent
position in a challenging atmosphere.”
He will assume his new position this Sep-
tember.

Beatty leaves with a few regrets. He
anticipates missing his colleagues in the
Philosophy department, co-workers
whom he describes as “challenging and
supportive.” Neither does he relish leav-
ing his students, of whom he also speaks

highly. Nevertheless, he reserves less
than glowing remarks for other aspects of
Davidson.

Beatty alludes to “some disagree-
ments with the Vice President for
Academic Affairs,” T. C. Price Zimmer-
mann. Led to believe that a permanent
position was “unlikely,” he sought per-
manent positions elsewhere, finally ac-
cepting Randolph-Macon’s offer.

Beatty is keenly aware that any criti-
cisms from his position could easily be
construed as “sour grapes.” While he
wishes to avoid this, Beatty still speaks
his mind.

Not only did he feel the everpresent
uncertainty about his position’s security,

‘lege: eee ne

Joe Beatty, pictured here in his political philosophy class, will become Chair-
man of the Philosophy Department at Randolph-Macon College after leaving

Davidson this spring

he also felt that he was “not entirely at
home” at Davidson.

Additionally, Beatty shared a few
criticisms of the Humanities program.
He considers it a “superficial” treatment
of subjects that are only “serially re-
lated.” In spite of this, Beatty praises
current attempts to reevaluate and im-
prove the program.

With his engagement to English Pro-
fessor Ann McMillan and a promising
job ahead, Beatty leaves Davidson witha
few regrets but limitless possibilities.

Schooled at LaSalle, Johns Hopkins,
Haverford, and Northwestern, Beatty
has taught at Williams, Duke, and
Davidson.

‘DAVIDSON ‘DRY GOODS

TRADITIONAL AND CLASSIC CLOTHING

Casually Waiting for Spring

in Separates from Davidson Dry Goods. . .

101 North Main Street

pictured on the campus of Davidson College | to r:
:C. Melton in Gabrielle knit top $25 and denim mini $36
M. Nix in Shrader Sport knit top $36 and knit bottom $38
M. Edward in Esprit sweat shirt $27 and pleated twill pant $36
J. Poole in PBJ knit top $28 and cotton/poly skirt $32
10% stucent discount with Davidson ID
Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Telephone 704/892-8156
