4 Friday. March 18, 1983

The Davidsonian

By TIM MCGAUGHEY

The Y Student Service Crops held Y-
Week March 14-18. The week’s ac-
tivities were designed to enhance student
awareness about the campus service or-
ganization.

Y President Doug Ammar ’84 hopes
that this week of .activities will “com-
municate what the Y is and what its ac-
tivities are to the student body.”

On Tuesday the Y-SCC sponsored
the CROP lunch, proceeds from which
will go toward the elimination of world
hunger. Later in the evening the Furman
University Y-SSC, which draws 80 per-
cent student participation in activities,
shared ideas with the Davidson Y-SSC.

At a Y-sponsored Open Lunchon
Wednesday, Director of the Community
Center Kathy Dews and Recreational Di-
rector Isaac Applewhite discussed the
needs of Davidson youth.

Wednesday afternoon students, fac-
ulty, and the community all met on the
Chambers lawn for a New Games tourna-
ment.

Yesterday the Y-SSC co-sponsored a
Depot lunch at the Senior Citizens Center
where Kathy Dews spoke about the
Community Center.

Campus leaders met at a dinner
Thursday night in the DuPont Room for
an organizational meeting aimed at coor-
dinating the scheduling of campus events

es

spotlights Corps’ Activities

Y-SSC President Doug Ammar (right) heads up an active corps. New Games, a form of non-
competetive, non-violent fun, is one of Doug’ s specialties

and improving communication between
student groups. Ammar hopes the group
will meet “at least once a term and spon-

sor an activity a term.” ,
Finally, tonight at 9 p.m. at the Pi
Kappa Alpha house, the Y will co-spon-

sor a CROP Dance-a-thon. A $1.00 entry
fee will go to the CROP fund for the fight
against world hunger.

Tuition Increase

(Continued from p. 1)

cational costs of the College; endow-
ments provide another 24 percent.

While students and parents may dis-
like the extra cost, those students on fi-
nancial will not suffer. “We will con-
tinue to fund 100 percent of demonstrat-
ed financial need.” said Associate Dean
in charge of Financial Aid Kathleen
Stevenson. Need is determined by a
complex formula in the government-is-
sued Financial Aid Form.

The amount of aid which Davidson
grants varies according to the number of
eligible individuals. This sum has in-
creased to compensate for the diminished
federal Pell Grants and Guaranteed Stu-
dent Loans. “Surprisingly,” said Steven-
son, “the federal campus-based funds re-
mained about the same.” The campus-
based funds include the Supplemental
Educational Opportunity Grants, Na-
tional Student Loans, and most of the
money for the work-study program.

The tuition increases over the last few
years have seemed high, but this has had

i)

wenn

no effect on the number and quality of
students who apply. In fact, applications
rose 25 percent since last year. Davidson
now Tanks as the most selective school in
the South based on the number of apllic-
ants accepted (30 percent).

“It is our endowments, our dedicated
alumni, and our location that allows us to
keep costs down,” said Dean of Admis-
sions John V. Griffith. Duke raised its
prices 62 percent from ’79-80 to 83-84,
with tuition now at $10,338. Princeton,
the Davidson of the North, charges al-
most $13,000.

At the same time tuition rises, so does
faculty and staff compensation. Accord-
ing to Vice President for Academic Af-
fairs and Dean of Faculty T. C. Price
Zimmermann, the increase will not be
across the board but based on merit. Zim-
mermann and President Spencer will
evaluate faculty according to the Code of
Faculty Evaluating Procedures. They
should come to some decisions in the
next several weeks.

Humanities Evaluation

(Continued from p. 1)

On February 21 MacCormac res-
igned as director of the Humanities pro-
gram.
On February 22 College President
Samuel R. Spencer sent a letter to the
faculty explaining the Administration’s
position.

Spencer said that “while there had not
yet been meetings with the staff as a
whole, Dean Zimmermann had dis-
cussed various aspects of the consul-
tants’ report and possible future direc-
tions of the program with the two present
directors of the program, the two im-
mediate past directors, and the four
members of the staff liason committee to
the consultants.”

Spencer acknowledged that “the ap-
pointment of one person to head the pro-
gram rather than two” was not “discussed
with the Humanities staff as a group.”

He concluded that “any decision on
ultimate leadership” will be postponed
“until after the Humanities staff has had

an opportunity to work through a revi-|

sion.

Spencer admitted that “it would have
been desirable to have the entire
Humanities staff participate in the deci-
sion” but maintained that “there is noth-
ing in the Constitution which mandates
formal consultation.”

Polley feels that it is “unfortunate that
we [the Faculty and Administration] ever
had a confict,” though he still maintains
that “adequate consultation had not taken
place.”

MacCormac has “absolutely no bit-

terness over the affair. It’s over as far as
I’m concerned,” he said.

MacCormac only regrets that he
“didn’t make it in the Davidson book of
records” for the shortest term in office.
Former Head Basketball Coach John
Kreese holds the record, resigning one
week after accepting the position. Mac-
Cormac resigned after two weeks.

Self Selection

(Continued from p. 1)

preserve it. But we need the cooperation
of the students,” Currie agreed. He said
that the Court must have long-term finan-
cial stability to survive, and that requires
a commitment on the part of students.

For this reason the Dean’s Office en-
couraged the PCC to institute individual
contracts for each member this year. The
contracts stipulated that a member agree
to eat at the house for a full year or pay a
fine for leaving. There was some con-
troversy concerning this contract on the
Court, Terry said, but he felt that this sort
of thing is necessary to assure financial
stability. Currie said, “The luxury of just
assuming that you'll drop out [of a
house] spring term senior year is no
longer there—this can really hurt a
house.”

The individual contracts were not re-
quired this year because the PCC felt that
they did not have the power to enforce
them, but Terry said that the Dean’s of-
fice and the Business Office would stand
behind the PCC contracts.
