14 Friday, November 4, 1983/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

. Ann Meador, Editor * David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Mind-Expanding,
Study At Home

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

Davidson has finally made the commitment to international edu-
cation it has been talking about for the past fifteen years. The beauty
of the $10 million Rusk Endowment for International Education is
that it will benefit the 75 percent of Davidson students who never
study abroad. JYA presents invaluable experiences, but this Endow-
ment promises similar mind-expanding study much closer to home.

Of the five major areas where the endowment will concentrate
funds, four will affect students and faculty right here in tiny David-
son. Faculty seminars and summer grants will mean more of an inter-
national awareness throughout the curriculum; students will gain
from that. Next, visiting foreign professors will enrich both the stu-
dents and faculty interacting with them. More international students
will be coming to Davidson because of Endowment funding. The li-
brary will be able to afford more resources on international topics. In
all these cases, Davidson will gain perspective beyond the boundaries
of North Main Street and Concord Road.

Although the endowment centers on international education, stu-
dent will benefit simply from attending a college which takes interna-
tional concerns seriously in action as well as rhetoric. As funds roll in
and programs become real, the atmosphere of the College is bound to
become more world-conscious as students and faculty expose them-
selves to issues of world-wide importartce.

The only potential flaw in this plan rests in the question of stu-
dents participating in the endowment’s programs. The endowment’s
organizers have made a serious commitment to raise an ambitious
amount of money; students especially must respond to this opportu-
nity with an equally genuine commitment. Where resources for inter-
national education were limited in the past, they will be considerable
in the future. Now that the chance to expand perspective is real, stu-
dents should take advantage of these opportunities and follow the ex-
pansion of the programs. There is no question that actively embracing
the endowment will help Davidson. It would be a shame if students
fail to recognize how important their role is in bringing vitality to this
program.

.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 149 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available -
on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Copyright
held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee. Assistant News Editor. Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Roxanna Guilford.
Wayne Magruder. Bruce Plourde, Greg Smouse, Julie Sternal. Aaron Taylor, Lisa Thomas, David

Van Pelt, Elizabeth White. Ted Wilson
Features Staff: Brian Butler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Ida Phillips, Allison Wills
Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor, Boyd Blackburn, Kerry Brown, Dave Earnhardt.
Pam Harmann, Rand Hartsell, Frank Schwalbe
Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbeuer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin
Horan, Mike Jester, Laura McGee, Carrull Overton, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey, Alva Moore, Susan Norman
Circulation Staff: David McCurry, Manager; William White
Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Tadd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

_ Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Rob Hollenbeck Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Lou Hamilton.
Debby: Williams. Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

LETTERS

Big Loss

To the Editor:

I would like to know where you re-
ceived your information for the article
“Football Players: A Subculture Within
the Community?” which appeared in the
October 28 issue of The Davidsonian.
Being a football player myself, I know
that no one involved in the entire football
program ever prepares for “another big
loss,” whether we are playing Furman,
S.C. State, or Guilford. If we were ex-
pecting to lose, why would we practice
four hours per day? It would be much
easier just to dress out on Saturday, run
through some plays, hit the showers, and
go to all the parties after the game rather
than to practice all week long. If our in-
tention were to lose our games, then why
hire coaches who put in a great deal of
time and effort for a winning cause? Why
not let the editors of The Davidsonian
coach the team? Then maybe they would
be able to justify the garbage about “pre-
paring for a loss.” .

I don’t know if the philosophy behind
a newspaper is that of preparing articles
sO no one will read them, but I do know
that the football team goes out every
week and works very hard preparing it-
self for a win! I believe in the freedom of
the press, but I feel that what is printed
should be true.

Mike Cate

Competency

To the Editor:

Concerning some of the comments
about Football Coach and Athletic Direc-
tor Ed Farrell in David Resnik’s football
article last week, it seems to me that the
questions about Farrell’s quittter policies
should be secondary to the question of
his competency.

Boyd Blackburn

PITCHERS

To the Editor:

We, a group of concerned students
abroad, taking a moment from combat-
ting Marxism and sobriety, want to ex-
press our relief that we made the Right
Decision. Forseeing a virtually yeastless

year, we all gladly accepted the opportu- ©

nity to see the land of ever-flowing pitch-
ers — we’re not scrimping on experi-
ence. Certainly, we sympathize with the
plight of the poor, the hungry, and the
pitcherless. Certainly it hurts. But dog-
gone it, this kind of suffering has only
one remedy, i.e., big, ripe, fat, gargan-
tuan pitchers of golden brew.

Yeah, we drink out of pitchers here.
That’s the only way we know how to pro-
test. We think we’re doing more than our
share to support “the cause.” PITCH-
ERS, we know that you’ re fighting a los-
ing battle, but in the end it will comfort
you to know, that Davidson students
somewhere are enjoying big, ripe, fat,

gargantuan pitchers of golden brew. The
Davidson community really does care.

The Contingent of
PITCHERS (People
Imbibing Tall, Cool

Habit-forming, Excessively
Rich Succulence)
JY A Germany

Simple Facts

To the Editor:

Some questions are rarely debated ra-
tionally. Whether private citizens should
be prohibited from the ownership of han-
dguns is one of these questions. Under-
standing of complicated issues never re-
sults when people begin convinced (1)
that there are “simple facts” which make
careful investigation of casual hypoth-
eses unnecessary; (2) that anyone who
disagrees with them is wicked and insen-
sitive. Such animus clouds personal
judgment and poisons the atmosphere in
which policy questions are debated. As
an example of the former effect in Pro-
fessor Williamson’s case, consider the
remarkable inference from the fact that
.02 percent of the handguns are instru-
ments in homicide annually to the con-
clusion that 50,000 Americans are mur-
dered by handguns. This inference
would be valid if and only if it were true
(which it isn’t) that there are
250,000,000 privately owned handguns
in the United States. (Incidentally, the
population of the U. S. is approximately
230,000,000). An easy check with our li-
brary reveals a different story. Accord-
ing to the U. S. Government-published
Crime in the United States 1983, there
were 8,474 handgun murders in the U. S.
last year. Thus the probability that any
randomly selected American would have
been killed by a handgun last year was
.000037 percent. Given what we know
about handgun violence and social class,
the probability of any Davidson student’s
dying in this way are much, much lower.

How then should emotion-laden
questions be approached by people com-
mitted to rational inquiry and moral en-
lightenment? First, values and principles
must be clearly identified and analyzed.
What values of social life ought to be
protected? Which means to these ends
are morally permissible? Without a nor-
mative principle which says when it is
permissible to pass laws of a certain sort,
no inference about what should happen
“simply” follows. Second, what do the
data show? Is there evidence (as opposed
to “simple facts”) to support the claim
that, for example, legal restrictions on
handguns reduce violence? Without evi-
dence to the contrary my arguments
stand.

Lance K. Stell
Dealie
To the Editor:

What’s the funnest thing at David-
son? It’s running the conveyor belt-type
dealie that brings you your shirts in the
laundry. -

I'd almost forgotten. .
-Mark Barrett ’82

wid
