The Day After

To the Editors:

Mike Stephens’s article on “The Day
After” contained several statements
which concerned me a great deal. I do not
wish to challenge Stephens’s analysis of
the film, which I also felt was rather
hyped-up and ultimately disappointing,
but rather I call into question his general
Statements about attitudes toward nucle-
ar war.

Stephens is “firmly convinced that
for the average person there are many
more important things to worry about
than nuclear war.” I wonder what he has
in mind. NFL standings? Cabbage Patch
dolls? Reviews and papers? Stephens
fails -to distinguish between worry,
which is rather unproductive and de-
bilitating, and productive concern. In my
opinion, “The Day After” served to
heighten public awareness of an issue
about which every person should be con-
cerned.

Public awareness of this issue may
well be something that Stephens takes for
granted. At Davidson various organiza-
tions (Peace Coalition, PIRG) have un-
dertaken to educate the College commu-
nity on issues of nuclear war. However,
not every individual is as aware of the
issue as many Davidson students are. I
watched “The Day After” in a sorority
house at a distinguished state university
where it became quite clear that many
students knew little or nothing about the
issue at hand. As we watched the film,
initial. disinterest became genuine as-
tonishment and concem. “The Day

After” introduced these students and —

many other viewers to an issue to which
they will perhaps now give some
thought.

Stephens assesses correctly the lack
of easy answers. However, he fails to
grasp the meaning of “The Day After.”
Education about bomb shelters and radi-
ation sickness does not effectively treat
the issue. Public awareness of the issue
must work towards establishing attitudes
which insure that we never need to enter
bomb shelters or treat radiation sickness.
“The Day After” is one small step to-
wards the goal of never having a “day of”
nuclear war.

Nancy Rosselot

Ad Hominem

To the Editors:

I-would like to quetion gome points
raised in a recent essay, “Quantitative
Values and Qualitative Concepts (The
Davidsonian, Dec. 12) by Alberto Her-
nandez-Chiroldes. In this statement, he
discussed the recent exhibition of “Revo-
lutionary Posters from Nicaragua” which
was held at the College Union, and Brian
Shaw’s essay (The Davidsonian, Nov.
11) concerning this display.

The exhibition was hardly the work
of Nicaraguan propagandists as Hernan-
dez-Chiroldes charges. Joe Park, chair-
man of the Union Gallery Committee,
brought the exhibition to the campus
after consulting with the organizer of the
show, David Craven. An assistant pro-

fessor of art history at SUNY-Cortland,
Craven and his co-worker from this Cort-
land faculty, John Ryder, conducted ex-
tensive research in Nicaragua during the
summer of 1982. David Craven is a well-
respected scholar who has published
widely on questions of art and culture
‘ranging from the school of Rembrandt to
the contemporary scene. This exhibition
revealed the richness of the present
Nicaraguan society which neither the
American government nor Albert Her-
tiandez-Chiroldes cares to recognize. In
spite of the “us versus them” picture that
Ronald Reagan and others attempt to
create concerning the defense of Ameri-
can interests in the region, there are in
Nicaragua real and important improve-
ments in the fields of health, social wel-
fare, literacy, and the arts which this
exhibiton highlighted. It simply does not
do, then, for Hernandez-Chiroldes to
dismiss this as a manifestation of
“Leninist propaganda.”

The point is, of course, that such an
exhibition should provoke reasonable
debate about the situation in Nicaragua
— debate made all the more difficult to
understand by the Washingtonian and
Managuan smokescreens. Unfortunately
Hemandez-Chiroldes is not willing to
address the issues posed by Brian Shaw’s
essay. Instead he has tainted his argu-
ment with invective and insinuations. In
the future I can only hope that construc-
tive debate rather than ad hominem
polemics will find their way into these
pages.

Shaw Smith, Jr.
Assistant Professor of Art

Misdirection

To the Editors:

T call to your attention an article by
Frank del Olmo, “La Prensa: Litmus of
Freedom,” dateline Managua, in yester-
day’s Charlotte Observer (December
12, page 13A), reprinted from The Los
Angeles Times.

Del Olmo cites examples of La Pre-
sna’s occasional irresponsibility, imba-
lance, and poor news judgment as “other
factors [that] have contributed to [its]
shaky situation” within a “three-way
Chamorro newspaper war.” Reporting a
recent and dramatic easing of Sandinista
censorship, del Olmo, like others, con-
tributes much-needed up-to-date infor-
mation for a continuing discussion of
Central America which, unfortunately,
was misdirected last week by the ad

‘hominem focus of an opinions article you

published on Nicaragua.
Lois A. Kemp
Associate Professor
of Spanish

Deployment

To the Editors:

On Thursday, December 15, students
and faculty will wear black armbands tc
express their disapproval of United
States deployment of cruise and Pershing
II missiles in England and in continental
Europe. This day marks the official com-
pletion of the initial deployment, and

Wednesday, December 14, 1983/The Davidsonian 11

also a new stage of tension and uncer-
tainty in the nuclear arms race. I encour-
age all members of the Davidson com-
munity to consider the significance of
this deployment and join in this symbolic
action.

I believe that the Pershing HI and
cruise missiles are a strongly destabiliz-
ing and unneccessary‘step in the precari-
ous nuclear arms race. The Pershing II
are the first U.S. land-based missiles in
Europe capable of striking the USSR
since the settlement of the Cuban missile
crisis in 1963. These missiles can reach
the Soviet Union in six minutes from
West Germany, whereas the land-based
missiles in the US take thirty minutes.
This strategic change means that the
Soviets are forced to rely more on com-
puters in deciding on the legitimacy of a
U.S. attack. Beyond escalating the
chance of an accidental war, the cruise
and Pershing If missiles are potential
first-strike weapons.

The United States and the Soviet
Union should be working for strong arms
agreements and limitations instead of en-
hancing the arms race. The U.S. govern-
ment claims we are deploying these mis-
siles in response to the deployment of
Soviet SS-20’s. Yet the threat of the
Soviet SS-20’s has been the same for
twenty years, while the U.S. response
provokes a different stage in the nuclear
conflict.

The wearing of armbands on Thurs-
day is one way of generating discussion
and further action about the European
missile crisis. The seriousness of this
situation deserves our visible attention
on Thursday, and active consideration on
all days.

Armbands may be picked up at the
Union desk Wednesday night and all day
Thursday.

Debra Williams
Coordinator of the Davidson Peace Coal-
ition

Collective Sigh

To the Editors:

Before the college community finishes

heaving a collective sigh that the “last

chapter” has been written in Davidson’s
“semester saga” (editorial, The Davidso-

nian, December 7), let’s consider where

we stand.

Have we reconsidered our educa-
tional policies and concluded that the
trimester system is best for Davidson? |
doubt it. The faculee: uatac, ducing. the...
past year suggest that a majority —
perhaps even a substantial majority — of
the faculty favors a semester calendar.
What the faculty cannot agree on, or
rather has not yet agreed on, is the forma
semester system should take.

The discussion, then, is far from
over. It will inevitably begin again next
year, when the College undertakes its de-
cennial self study.

We know now what is not acceptable:
(1) special treatment for the Humanities
Program; if we adopt the rubric “a course
is a course,” the Humanities Program
cannot count | 1/2 courses per semester;
(2) a system of credit hours which per-

we veS3 Pa eee

mits science majors to graduate with sig-
nificantly fewer (i.e., more than two or
three) fewer courses than other majors;
(3) a semester with five-course loads
(from the students’ point of view, at
least).

What we ought to be discussing in the
future, therefore, is a graduation require-
ment of either 32 courses (the
Humanities Program counting four
courses), or of 36 courses (in a 4-1-4 ar-
rangement), or of (say) 108 hours, with
the added stipulation that no more than
(say) 40 hours be in any one department.

Clearly we need to reach more of a
consensus before we start voting on this
or that. Let’s hope that the 1984-85 self
study will provide the necessary opportu-
nity to talk.

Peter Krentz
Associate Professor
of History

Vocabulary

To the Editors:

I’m glad we're settled on the three-
term calendar. Now may I help with
some vocabulary, particularly the wide-
spread misuse of the good word, trimes-
ter. It has been wrongly used in describ-
ing Davidson’s academic calendar of the

past 15 years.
The proper definition of trimester
(Quann, Admissions, Academic Re-

cords, and Registrar Services, p. 275) is
a calendar which uses more than the nor-
mal nine months that define the school
year, usually three parts of about sixteen
weeks each, where students carry 15
semester hours each trimester and where
the unit of credit is the semester hour. By
all parts of the definition it doesn’t fit
Davidson. Many of us have fallen into
the trap of thinking the Latin word tri for
the number, three should apply to a
loosely used semester, hence trimester.
We are close to a quarter calendar which
also has three quarters (and frequently a
summer quarter) and gives credit by
quarter hour; the credit feature keeps it
from fitting Davidson. We are left then
with the proper position that Davidson's
calendar is rightly referred to as either a
three term or a 3-3-3 calendar.

Since we're going to continue to use
the three-term calendar for a long time,
most people think, please let’s call it by
the right name.

Richard C. Burts, Jr.
Registrar

ye Son HAW.

nee oe pee deve aa line

BUD Gee met
we: Aare beet

Thanks And
Good Luck

To the Editors:

* I would like to thank the many stu-
dents who supported my bid for Editor of
The Davidsonian yesterday. Although I
did not win, I enjoyed meeting so many
students throughout the campaign.

I wish Ross Holt and David McGee
much success as they take over as editors
cf The Davidsonian.

Duncan V. Fraser
