The Davidsonian/Friday, April 8, 1983 7

—— Music

Glance Pays Tribute to Singles

By JONATHAN GLANCE

In honor of Spring Frolics I
thought I’d pay tribute to that great
American institution — the Single. In
its purest form, this little 7-inch disc of
vinyl became the voice of all the little
bands who didn’t have enough songs
for an album. A single should be kind
of dumb (to appeal to DJs and the mas-
ses), fairly short (under four minutes
works best), and annoying enough to
be catchy (like those drug store jingles
you always hum). The three singles
under this week’s scrutiny are radir
cally different but describe the bound-
aries of the genre quite well. Warning:
in the course of writing this review I
' listened to each single at least five
times in a row; remember that I am a
trained professional, so don’t attempt
this in your own home.

Trio: “Da Da Da”

The greatest single of the year —
maybe of all time! This unlikely 45
from the Fatherland of Pop Kultur re-
defines minimalism while parodying
itself. One guitar, one drum, one
Casio, two languages on one record!
“Da Da Da” went to number one all
over Europe for the simple reason that
after you’ ve heard it once you’ ve got to
hear it again (the mark of a truly great
single). Of course, repeated listenings
can reduce you to a state of twitching
incapacitation, but that’s cool too. Ina
day and age when the novelty record is
something of a, well, novelty, Trio
looks to be a front runner for the
‘Headhunter & the Cannibals ‘Land of
a 1,000 Dances’ Award” for 1983. As
if to show that the B side of a single
never really mattered anyway, the flip-
side of the English/German version is
in German/English. A song that can be

sung along with, danced to, laughed
at, but never ignored — “Da Da Da”
never rises above joyous mindlessness
and a great beat. Well Mr. Clark, I'll
give this one a 99, I just, uh, liked the
beat and could dance to it, you know?
Uh huh, uh huh, uh huh.

Thomas Dolby: “She Blinded Me with

Science”

From the opening synth cords to
the fading drum computer beats this
single leads the listener through the ec-
lectic weirdness of one Thomas Dolby
(ex-keyboardist for Lene Lovich and

now free-lance eccentric), a man
whose wall of confusion is in direct
contrast to Trio’s desert of space. This
one raises some questions, like where
did that old man come from and what is
this Frankenstein fable on vinyl sup-
posed to mean? With lyrics like “When
I’m dancing close to her / I can smell
the chemicals / It’s poetry in r... ion /
And now she’s making love to me /
The spheres are in commotion / The
elements in harmony,” it is hard to fig-
ure out what planet Dolby’a from —
you feel like you’re eavesdropping on

some late show from Out There. How-
ever, a bit of mystery always made for
a good single, so I’m not complaining.
And is that a theramin solo I thought I
heard? Oh, just an artifical one, like
most of the sounds. Well, nobody
blends artifice and reality as ef-
fortlessly as Thomas Dolby. A
metaphysical party disc for the
Eighties, no less, anda great David
Byrne imitation to boot, with lots of
halts and glides and bumps. Slip this
One on to your next disco, and watch
things happen out there.

Duran Duran Flawed with Slickness

By JOHN EDWARDS

Duran Duran is the biggest of the wave

of euro-electro-disco-pop. This type of

music seems to be the up and coming
thing in America — it is new and Euro-
pean sounding (although not necessar-
ily European), making it “cool”, yet
slick and harmless enough to be ac-
cepted in a country which has heard so
many comparisons between the vol-
otile British music scene and the stale
American scene, and doesn’t know
what to do about it. Bands like Duran
Duran and Flock of Seagulls are filling
tht gap by providing a dance alterna-
tive to funk and a listening alternative
to hard-pop-rock which is not exces-
sively adventurous.

Rio was released almost a year
ago, quickly rising to the top of the En-
glish charts, due in good part to the
acclaim for their first album (untitled).
The same ingredients which made it

popular in Britain are responsible for
its success in America -_ sharp
melodies, slick production, tight har-
manies, and especially, dancability.
The drum and synthesizer/bass rhythm
in the background coupled with strong
melodies and enough guitar to make it
sound like rock in the foreground make
for excellent disco music.

The melodies and “produced” har-
monies are this band’s strong points.
Duran Duran writes quite good pop
songs, notably “Rio”,“Hold Back the
Rain”, and “Save A Prayer’, although
none of the songs are appreciably
worse than the rest, except for “Hun-
gry Like the Wolf’. (Why do bands re-
lease the worst song on an album as the
single?) The harmonies give the songs
an urgency which propels both the
tunes aad the dance. There is some
question as to where the knob fiddling
stops and the singing begins, however.

The lyrics on Rio evoke ambiguous
feelings. On the one hand, they are

meaningless, trivial, and sometimes
forced, but on the other hand, the
stream-of-consciousness effect is quite
interesting. Besides, who needs mean-
ingful lyrics in dance music anyway —
they just get in the way.

Slickness is Duran Duran’s down-
fall. The band is personalityless, not
too bad a fault in itself, but it is a trait
stemming from overproduction. There
are no stirring individual performances
on Rio, and, worst of all, no commit-
ment. This quality causes the songs to
wear with repeated listening. Actu-
ally, it is a credit to the songwriting on
the album that this sterility is not im-
mediately overwhelming. The emo-
tion is locked into the melody, never
touching the playing or production.

It is hard to get too excited about a
band which isn’t excited about itself. I
understand that they are terrible live,
also. Maybe these guys are session
musicians — for the same effect minus
the sterility, Roxy Music.

Transatlantic Music: An English Viewpoint

By JAMES RAMPTON

Since my arrival at Davidson, even more fre-
quently than I have been asked, “Do you know Prin-
cess Di?” I have been asked, “Do you know U2 /
Duran Duran / Adam Ant/ A.B.C. / The English Beat
/ Squeeze / Joe Jackson / The Clash?” So, it seemed to
me a good idea to make one universal reply to this
taxing question in this hallowed publication, laying
particular emphasis on the specifically “English” as-
pects of these groups.

U2’s empassioned and lively brand of rock is at
present cornering the hardcore of the British “floating
trendy” market, much in the same way the Clash did a
couple of years ago. At the same time, Duran Duran,
dominating the U.K. equivalent of the Grammy
Awards last month, has the current hold on the lucra-
tive “teenybopper” / screaming-young-girls sector.
What a pity they didn’t play at the Spring Frolics after
all.

Their exotic, escapist videos have proved the
basis of their hard-sell success. The essential fickle-
ness of the British music-listening public is under-
lined by the fact that Adam Ant was doing exactly the
same thing only a year ago and is now more or less

universally rejected. A similar fate will undoubtably
befall Duran Duran.

A.B.C. makes less pretense about the ephemeral
appeal of their music, manufacturing a striking type
of heavily produced, tongue-in-cheek love song.
Their faculty for unashamed showmanship bordering
on self-parody should keep them in favor with the
British for at least another six months.

The (English) Beat and Squeeze lasted longer
than-that, but their rise over here was mirrored in a de-
cline in the U.K. That is not to say that you can’t be
popular on both sides of the Atlantic (witness the
hero-worship “passion” of the Beatles, The Rolling
Stones, and other such supergroups), but it is a diffi-
cult balance to strike. Two artists who seem to have
achieved this recently are the Clash and Joe Jackson,
though neither without certain cynical minorities in
England casting aspersions about their street credibil-
ity. The answer appears to be that you can’t please ev-
eryone all the time, especially considering how great-
ly English and American music tastes can vary. This
is borne out by the general ignorance over here of
popular yet esoteric English bands such as Elvis Cos-
tello and the Attractions, The Jam (now defunct,
alas), Madness, and UB40 — whose very name, rep-
resenting the official of British unemployment bene-

fit cards, is incomprehensible to most people in the
US.

I can foresee many more British groups — some
of whom already command strong minority follow-
ing here — bridging that wide Atlantic culture gap.
Culture Club, fronted by the charismatic and soulful
Boy George, and Musical Youth, filled with infecti-
ous, youthful buoyancy, stand clearly as the main
contenders at present. But Soft Cell, Echo and the
Bunnymen, Spandau Ballet and The Thompson
Twins — notable respectively for their prediction for
seediness, their innovative hairdos, their bizarre
wardrobe and their excessive energy — should be fol-
lowing on their heels.

The traditions of British successes in the U.S. is
now deep-rooted, from The Beatles through The Rol-
ling Stones and The Who right up to Dire Straits and
The Clash. However, it is still refreshing to realize
that certain things will always be loved exclusively in
your own nation. The British may have given the
Americans Paul McCartney, and the Americans may
have given the British Michael Jackson (fair ex-
change, no robbery!); but esoteric bands like, say,
Chairman of the Board here or Grievous Bodily Harm
in London are never going to be very likely to make a
wildly successful trans-Atlantic crossing.

