The Fabric of Our Society

Is there a place for economic justice?

By JOHN STANBACK ’83

Dr. Keith Martin brought home the importance of
the interdisciplinary emphasis at Davidson last
Wednesday night. In his capacity as ordained Presby-
terian minister, Dr. Martin first spoke at College Cha-
plain Charlie Summer’s Wednesday night worship ser-
vice. The topics were religious principles supporting
government dide to the poor, and the “new” principles
of the Reagan administration. An hour later Martin led
a discussion on the more technical aspects of Reasa-
nomics for the Davidson Hunger Task Force, a group
notable that evening for its lack of student participa-
tion.

Dr. Martin’s remarks underscored just how much
two meetings such as these do, or should, have in com-
mon.

A Harvard graduate and director of the Presbyter-
ian Advocacy Project, Keith Martin answered a few
questions for the DAvidsonian.

Davidsonian: What is the state of economic justice in

the U.S. today?

Martin: It is declining. We have never had a society
where income distribution has been very equitable, and
in the last few years, the Reagan economic program
has moved us even more in the direction of inequality.
The poor have had cuts in programs that they depend
on, and at the same time the rich have had tax cuts.
Davidsonian: Dr. Martin, you are a member of the In-
ter-religious Task Force on Economic Justice. What
can a group like this, and the Church as a whole, do to
improve economic justice?

Martin: We have several tasks. I certainly think we
need to provide as many direct services as we can. The
church has always been deeply involved with that; in
times of economic hardship we are called upon to do
even more. But the Church cannot pick up the gap
that’s being left by the cut-back in government pro-
grams. The cuts are too big, the numbers are too large,
but even more significant, I don’t think the Church or
any private organization should be expected to provide
these fundamental human necessities. This is a kind of
thing that should be built into the very fabric of society,
and not be a matter of personal charity. The church also
has a theological task in society, that is, to lay out our
vision of what a good society should look like and what
role the government should play.

Davidsonian: You mention a vision. What, in your
opinion, is the vision of society expoused by the con-
servative economic policies called Reaganomics?
Martin: I think that vision is a very competitive, survi-
val-of-the-fittest, individualistic kind of vision where
private charity is looked upon.to pick up the pieces of
the victims.

Davidsonian: In your discussion you referred again
and again to [former] budget director David Stockman.
Do you feel that he epitomizes in any sense the prob-
lems inherent in this administration?

Martin: I don’t think it can be blamed on any one per-
son. He was in a very visible position the first year,
which he obviously relished. He’s carried a lot of the
ideological freight of the administration; his view of
society and the government’s role simply reflects the
administration’s view.

Davidsonian: You also mentioned earlier that the
theoretical underpinnings of Reaganomics were not
economic, but rather ideological. What do you mean
by that?

Martin: The major objective of the Reagan presidency
is to shrink the role of the federal government in the do-
mestic sector of society, and that any kind of economic
program that achieves that end is acceptable. The

ideology is dictating the economic program rather that
the economic program informing the ideology. In other
words, economic policy is internally contradictory.
We have a president who wanted to balance the budget
now coming up with the largest deficits in the history of
the United States. Suddenly, he is no longer so con-
cerned with deficits because his goal of increasing the
military and decreasing domestic spending is still more
or less on target. The means to his end is an attack on
the federal government as an instrument of economic
justice in our society.

Davidsonian: What does this country need?

Martin: We need to decide what we want to do with
our collective economic might and wealth. This re-
quires economic planning. It can be decentralized, but

planning is the key. We need an incomes policy with a
ceiling as well as whatever floor we have left. This
needn’t involve a large bureaucracy. We need a com-
munity full employment policy, a progressive tax sys-
tem that raises more revenue than we are raising now.
Our public sector is starved in this society. It’s much

‘smaller than in most industrialized countries, and if

you look around, you find that the things that we need
in this country are things in the public domain—roads,
bridges, sewers, educational systems, health care, etc.
These are not things that the private sector is going to
accomplish. We need a real safety net, a much more
generous floor to meet the peoples’ basic needs so they
have an opportunity to enter the mainstream of society
and become productive.

and Camp Seafarer (girls).

people, ages 7-16.

of major sports.

North Carolina 27605.

Dan SEMABULL
ILAMP SEAPARSR

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS FOR CAMP COUNSELORS at Camp Sea Gull (boys)
Serving as a camp counselor is a
challenging and rewarding opportunity to work with young

Sea Gull and Seafarer are health and
character development camps located on the coast of North
Carolina and feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship,
plus many usual camping activities including a wide variety
Qualifications include a genuine interest

in young people, ability to instruct in one phase of the

camps' programs, and excellent references.
information and application, please write a brief resume' of
training and experience in area(s) skilled to Don Cheek,
Director, Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, P. 0. Box 10976, Raleigh,

For further

_, THE DAVIDSONIAN/28 January 1983

13
