Interviews with candidates for editor
Meador, Resnik oppose Kirkpatrick

On Tuesday, January 11, Peggy
Pierotti '86 of The Davidsonian inter-
viewed the three candidates for the posi-
tion of Davidsonian Editor using identi-
cal questions. David Resnik and Ann
Meador are running as a team against
Kirk Kirkpatrick; elections will be held
on Tuesday, January 18. These inter-
views were conducted separately. The
following is an unedited, except for
grammar, transcript of the interviews.
Some questions were removed by per-
mission of all candidates.

Davidsonian: First please tell us
about yourselves — describe your ac-
tivities and qualifications.

Meador: My name is Ann Meador. I
am a sophomore and an English major-
to-be. I have worked with the paper
since last spring; I started primarily with
production, and this fall I have gotten a
lot more involved with it in terms of
production and also editing. I have seen
all different kinds of aspects of how the
paper works. I feel like I’ve spent a lot
of time in this office talking with the
people on the staff. I’m really interested
in editing and a career in publishing
books or a magazine. The experience I
had in high school was working with the
literary magazine, and I feel that it’s
helping me here. I also had an internship
in Nashville with a publisher for the past
three summers, and that’s given me a lot
of experience as well. The more I edit,
the more comfortable I feel with it.

Resnik: My name is David Resnik; I

am asophomore philosophy major.Iam_.

considering a career in journalism, or
possibly philosophy — somewhere in
writing. I have had experience in high
school; I was editor of my high school
paper. I have also had interships on the
Chapel Hill Newspaper, The Pittsboro
Herald, and The Durham Morning He-
rald. | started working for The David-
sonian last winter — towards the end of
the spring, I became News Editor, and
I’ve been that ever since. I’ve seen cer-
tainly a lot about the news that goes on
at this college, but I’ve also had a
chance to become informed in matters
such as organization, production, busi-
ness, and layout.

Kirkpatrick: My name is Kirk Kirk-
patrick. I am a sophomore and an eco-
nomics major. I am on a 4-year army
ROTC scholarship here at Davidson. As
for experience, I don’t have any expe-
rience writing for or working with The
Davidsonian; however, I do have prior
newspaper experience. I ran my high
school paper for the last two years as
Managing Editor and as Editor my se-
nior year. I know how to put out a news-

~ paper. I don’t know how The Davidson-

ian puts out a newspaper, but I am
aware of the process. I realize that this
looks like I am suffering from a lack of
experience, but I don’t think this is terri-
bly important because had I worked for
The Davidsonian, | think that I would
have had some writing experience as
well as a vague idea what goes on with
The Davidsonian staff. 1 don’t believe
that the editor should primarily be a
writer, but I think the editor should be a
manager. I don’t see that working with
The Davidsonian would have provided
that much further information to me.

What other activities do you have
besides The Davidsonian?

Meador: I work college bowl as an
extra-curricular. I don’t feel that there is
anything right now that would limit the
amount of time I could spend on the pa-
per.

Resnik: I’m a member of Phi Gam-
ma Delta fraternity. I do a little reading
and writing and harmonica playing in
my spare time, but I don’t see anything
that would come above the paper.

Kirkpatrick: My only extracurricu-
lar activity aside from possible editor-
ship of The Davidsonian is ROTC.
While ROTC does take up a certain
amount of time, that amount [does not
significantly take] away from the time I
would have to spend as editor.

What role do you feel The David-
sonian has or should have here at Da-
vidson?

R@snik: I think The Davidsonian’s
primary purpose is to maintain the jour-
nalistic integrity of the college publica-
tions, and by doing so to inform stu-
dents as best as it can on issues pertain-
ing to them and to entertain them. I
think The Davidsonian is performing
that purpose right now, but I think it can
be performed better. I would like to see
the students entertained a little more as
well as more news that pertains to them
in the paper.

Meador: The newspaper shouldn’t
be a sensational thing — we shouldn’t
seek to find controversy to write about
in the paper. If there is something con-
troversial going on, I think its important
that we cover it, but I think we should
seek out the issues on the campus, and
also not just be an information sheet.

Kirkpatrick: I think that The David-
sonian should have a voice. Since I’ve
been at Davidson, I don’t think it has
had a clear voice. It’s the only way stu-
dents have to voice their opinions, and
their voices should be heard. I think The
Davidsonian is a cacophany of different
voices. When I flip through The David-
sonian, | have a hard time deciding
where The Davidsonian stands on the
semester system, Spencer’s resignation

. . . | think The Davidsonian needs to
become a voice — the voice of David-

son, the voice of the students..

What changes do you have in
mind for The Davidsonian in terms of
such things as organization staff,
layout, or focus of stories?

Meador: David and I have talked
about this a lot in planning our cam-
paign. We would like to see a more in-
formed editorial policy — we'd like to
see the paper have weekly editorials.
We'd like to make the paper pleasing
visually. I think we’re constantly im-
proving, and I think we can continue to
move in that direction. I think we can
run articles that are perhaps not longer,
but that cover more information. In
terms of features, we'd like to see sto-
ries that appeal to a wide group of peo-
ple — not just esoteric, long, intellectu-
al articles.

Resnik: Overall we would like to
open up the paper and make it more
available to students for working on it
and for being able to identify and read it.
We’re going to try to build our staff up
as much as we can — we will encourage
all poeple to work for us. One of the best
things we could do would be to build up
the staff because without involved peo-
ple we can’t make any great strides for-
ward.

Kirkpatrick: I think that The David-
sonian is a very, very mediocre newspa-
per and I think that it’s a shame because
the student body which it is supposed to
reflect is anything but mediocre. I’m
running for Davidsonian Editor primar-
ily because I’m offended by bad jour-
nalism and I think The Davidsonian re-
flects bad journalism. The problem
stems from lack of involvement and
lack of The Davidsonian staff being rep-
resentative of the student body. Student
involvement — more people have to be
involved in The Davidsonian than the
handful that puts it together every
Thursday night. I have a lot of respect
for the people who stay up those late
hours, but I think the fact that there are
so few and that they have to work in

such haste — I think that this is reflected ~

in the paper. The paper looks like it’s
written at 4:00 in the morning. The
answers to a lot of The Davidsonian’s
problems are more staff and more im-
portantly, a better organized staff. The
Davidsonian has to be better organized,
and that’s the primary job of the editor
— to be a leader, not necessarily a writ-
er. Unless the editor can, by the force of
his personality and the sweat of his brow
get interested people to write good,

well-written, well-thought-out, deep ar-
ticles, there is no way we can have a
good paper.

Ann G. Meador

David Resnik

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

6
