6 Friday, April 1, 1983/The Davidsonian

Athletic Complex

(continued from page !)

Vice-President for Development Jack
Powers estimated that it will cost “$8
million to get the project done com-
pletely.”

Meetze said construction would take
eighteen months to complete if all phases
were built at once, though phases of con-
struction will probably be spread out
over a period of several years. If the
Trustees approve the final plans this May
and funding is available, then construc-
tion of the new complex could begin as
soon as 1984, according to Farrell.

Once the Trustees approve the final
plans for the complex, the College will
choose an architect and a construction
firm, said Farrell.

Meetze says that glass panels enclos-
ing the natatorium would warm the
building. Glass panels would also be
constructed to allow spectators to watch
at athletic events from a central hall.

Powers says that the Department of
Development has been soliciting poten-
tial donors for months but has gotten “‘no
commitment yet.” The College will
name the new complex after a patron
who finances more than half of it and will
also name various sections after donors,
according to Powers.

The Advisory Council on Athletics

The Advisory Council on Intercol-
legiate Athletics, an advisory committee
to the president, met Wednesday to dis-
cuss the new sports center and other is-
sues.

The cost of maintaining the new com-
plex was one of the “main issues of the

meeting,” according to Committee
Chairman and Psychology Professor
John Brockway.

Maintaining old buildings is one of
the College’s biggest expenses, and it
takes money away from other important
areas such as school supplies and faculty
salaries, according to Brockway.

Brockway pointed out that any deci-
sion by the Trustees on the new sports
complex will determine Davidson's ath-
letic policy for many years to come. For
instance, building a 5000-seat arena for

in Division 1, all Davidson sports must
compete in NCAA Division 1 except
football, which may remain in Division
1AA. All varsity teams would have to
compete for the Southern Conference
Championship in order to stay in the
Southern Conference.

Farrell said that “conflict for use of
the facility is Johnston Gym’s biggest
problem;” the varsity basketball teams,
IMAC, and the P.E. Department all try
to use the same space. Building a sepa-
rate facility for varsity basketball would

Any decision about the athletic complex is

linked to what the Trustees decide to do

with the Davidson athletic program’

basketball constitutes a commitment to
an extensive basketball program. Ac-
cording to Brockway, any decision about
the athletic complex is “linked to what
the Trustees decide to do with the David-

son athletic program.”

According to Farrell, the Trustees
want a “major college basketball team,”
which means that Davidson must stay in
both the Southern Conference and
NCAA Division 1.

Farrell says that in order to compete

alleviate the problem, according to Far-
rell.

To defend the need for a 5,000-seat
arena, Farrell compared the proposed
complex with other Southern Conference
schools’ gymnasiums. Marshall and UT
-Chattanooga each have more than
10,000 seats. VMI seats 5,800, and Fur-
man plays its games in the Greenville
Coliseum which seats over 12,000.

Attendance at Davidson men’s var-
sity basketball games averaged 2,200-

2,300 this year; 5,700 (the Cats’ win
over Notre Dame) was the largest crowd.
Farrell said that attendance will increase
as our basketball program becomes more
prominent.

Student Council representative Anne
Hurt, who declined comment on the new
complex itself, raised the question, “Do
we want to be known for a nationally
ranked basketball program, or do we
want to be known for our academic stan-
dards?”

She also wondered whether the Trus-
tees “are looking at the effects on minor
sports and women’s sports.”

Brockway said the Advisory Council
is a “vehicle for student comments” and a
“vehicle for faculty comments.” He says
that “few faculty members have ex-
pressed an opinion [about the new com-
plex]” but that the council “welcomes.
their opinion.”

“The only student input I’ve re-
ceived,” said Hurt, “is what I’ve sol-
icited myself.” She thinks that most
people “don’t even know what the advis-
ory council is.” She welcomes student
opinion and is “eager to talk to people.”

The Advisory Council on Intercol-
legiate Atheletics consists of Brockway,
Powers, Farrell, Vice President for
Academic Affairs and Dean of the Facul-
ty T. C. Price Zimmermann, Dean of
Students Will Terry, English professor
Gill Holland, Philosophy professor Al
Mele, Student Government Association
Vice-president Lentz Ivey, and student
representatives Hurt and Vic Taylor.

The wide ronge of subjects includes:

Application bionks trom:
Admissions

5. junior yeor or pest

YOUR CHANCE TO COME TO LONDON

Sunior-year programs, Postgraduate diplomas, One-year Master’
degrees and Research opportunities in the social sclences are offerec
at the London School of Economics and Political Science.

Accounting & Finance, Actuorial Science, Anthropology. Business Studies
, Economics, Econometrics, Economic History, European Studies, Geography.
Government, Industrial Relations, International History, Intemational
Relations, Law, Management Science, Operational Research, Philos ,
Planning Studies. Population Studies, Politics, Sea-Use Policy, Sociol
Administration, Social Work, Sociology, Social Psychology. Statistical and
, Mathematical Sciences, Systems Analysis.

 L.3.8., Houghton Street, London WC2, Engiend

LSE London School of Economics and

The Davidsonian offers a
typesetting service at.
reasonable rates. if you

need any fiyers,
chures, invitations, news-
letters, or any other form
of typesetting, call 892-
2000 ext. 148 or 149 for
more information.

bro-
