The Davidsonian/Friday, September 16, 1983 3

Con Artist Takes Associate Dean For $150

By DAVID MCGEE

“He was shaken and upset and
needed help. He was crying and saying,
“Why did God do this?’ He was very con-
vincing,” said Associate Dean of Stu-
dents Sue Ross about a man calling him-
self Ozzie McMillian, who this summer
impersonated a student in trouble. On
July 20, McMillian came to the Chap-
lin’s office here and asked for “Charlie.”
The chaplin, Charlie Summers, was not
in, so the man was referred to the Dean of
Students’ office. McMillian told Dean
Rss his story.

Wearing a Furman hat and jacket, he
said that he had just transferred here from
Furman University, and that he was a
basketball player living in Huntersville.
He had just heard from his ill grand-
mother that both of his parents had been
killed “in a automobile accident in
Montgomery, Alabama by a drunk
driver. He had just enough money for a
plane ticket, but he needed a little more
to cover other expenses for the trip to his
parents’ funeral.

Ross said she spent about an hour
with him, trying to comfort him “in a mo-
ment of pain.” But her assistance was all
in vain. The whole incident was a hoax.

Charles Edward Williams, 24, of
Charlotte, not Ozzie McMillian, Larry
Thompson or any of the other assumed
names Williams is said to have used, has
allegedly told similar stories to 40 col-
leges and institutions which authorities
believe has tried to trick out of an unde-
termined amount of money.

He had approached officials at the
University of South Carolina two days
before and at Furman on Tuesday before
coming to Davidson. Sometimes his par-
ents had died in an accident in Utah,

‘Union Director Chosen

By DAVID RESNIK
and SUSAN FORE

Davidson College has found a new
man to walk in former Union Director
Shaw Smith’s footsteps — former Assis-
tant Union Director William Brown ’70.

Brown served as Assistant Union Di-
rector from 1976-79 and therefore feels
“very familiar” with the job of Union Di-
rector.

The Union Director “should be a
good supervisor, a good advisor and a
good listener. He should respect students
abilities and advocate a strong student-
run organization,” said Brown.

Brown has spent the past year inter-
ning at other college unions. He said that
other unions are bigger with more em-
phasis on money but that the Davidson

Union has more of an emphasis on prog-

ramming.

Of all the Unions he has worked for,
Brown says that the Davidson Union has
the widest variety of service, with seven-
teen committees organizing separate ac-
tivities.

Brown intends to continue the pro-
grams that Smith established and pro-
poses no major changes in Union policy
(except those required by the new drink-
ing age law) until he becomes more
familiar with the demands of Davidson

sometimes California. When he came to
Davidson, Williams was on probation
from a previous conviction and was sup-
posed to be earning money to repay pre-
vious institutions he had obtained from
illegally, Ross said.

After giving Williams $150 cash,
which Ross took from a student aid ac-
count of the Dean of Students’ office, she
offered to take him to the airport and
went to get her car. When she had re-
turned with her car, Williams had disap-
peared and had told a secretary that Ross
had told him to meet her in front of the M
& M Soda Shop on Main Street.

“That’s when I began to get suspi-
cious. I had one of the secretaries call the
gym and the admissions office and they
said that he [Williams] was not an athlete
or a transfer student here. It seemed to be
a pattern, so I called other places,” Ross
said.

Williams called back after Ross had
talked with officials at Furman who said
that Williams had been there the day be-
fore with a similar story. He thanked her
for her kindness, told her that he had
found a friend who could take him to the
airport, and asked her to call him later
that evening at the phone number he had
given her earlier.

“I then told him that I was disap-
pointed that he had taken advantage of
me. He still tried to convince me that he
was telling the truth. His story was very
well documented. He knew basketball
players’ and school officials’ names and
names of people he said he knew here on
campus,” Ross said.

“He could be the number one sales-
man in Charlotte if he wanted to. In an
hour’s time I went from helping someone:
in need to feeling foolish and taken.

Communications

William Brown

students.

Said Brown of Smith: “C. Shaw
Smith is one of the great people in the
Union field. Shaw made _ this place
work.”

The College offered Brown the direc-
tor’s job in mid June and he began work
on August 9. His contract expires in two
years, but Brown would like to keep his
job for at least three to five years.

Brown was born September 24, 1948
in Richmond, Virginia. He graduated
from Davidson in 1970 and is now mar-
ried to Davidson graduate Mary Jo Clark
"719,

“Someone told me that now I have
learned my lesson. Well, I hope I haven't
learned my lesson. I hope that this ex-

perience will not make me callous and

suspicious of people in need,” she said.

Ross called area schools to warn
them about Williams, including Wake
Forest University, about 70 miles north
of Davidson, where he appeared the next
day. A woman in a campus store iden-
tified Williams from a notice describing
him and his practices. He found his way
to the chaplain’s office and started his
familiar routine. This time, his parents
had been “killed” in Utah.

When taken to the squad room, Wil-
liams attempted to assault an officer, said

Alton Hill, director of Public Safety at
Wake Forest. Williams was later con-
victed in Forsyth County Superior Court
for assaulting an officer and sentenced to
serve.

Williams is currently in the Mecklen-
burg County Jail awaiting trial for
charges of false pretense and failure to
comply with probation. In addition, he is
wanted in Union County on charges of
obtaining property under false pretenses
and in Greenville, S.C. on charges of
false pretense. He is being held in lieu of
$9,000 bond.

During his trial, school officials here
hope to recover the money Williams re-
ceived, Ross said.

Trustee Thelma Adair
Faces Dual Challenge

By AARON TAYLOR

To the Trustee of the Month, Thelma
Davidson Adair, Davidson provides a
dual challenge. She is one of only two
women and the sole black on the Board
of Trustees.

Adair received her doctorate from
Columbia Teacher’s College and now re-
sides in New York. She is currently Pro-
fessor of Education at Queens College in
Brooklyn, New York.

Her experience as a trustee goes
beyond Davidson. Twice before she has
held the position at the Union Theologi-
cal Seminary in New York and at
Johnson C. Smith University in Char-
lotte, North Carolina. She believes that a
“trustee has a responsibility to the board
and to the community” but requires an in-
timate knowledge of the college and the
students. “It takes time to become sea-
soned. I want an opportunity to visit
classes.”

Her interests transcend academics;
she is member of the Trustee committee
for Student, Religious, and Campus
Life. Religion has played an important
role in her life. In 1977 she was mod-
erator for the 188th General Assembly,
United Presbyterian Church — only the
second woman ever to hold that position.
She now is the national president of
Church Women United.

The two-to-one male-female student
ratio on the Davidson campus concerns
Adair. “Women represent more than 53
percent of the [world] population, and I
think we limit ourselves when we don’t
use the expertise of the widest possible
range of people,” she said.

Adair says she is comfortable at
Davidson, but she recognizes some in-
herent problems. “I think being a woman
moderator of the United Presbyterian
Church, and my black roots give me per-

.. sonal interest and committment.”

Adair’s parents. were born in
Mecklenburg County. She attended
Barber-Scotia and Bennett Colleges in
North Carolina and completed doctoral
studies at Columbia University Teachers
College. She has spent most of her life in
New York. However, she spurns the
label of “New Yorker,” and calls herself
instead “a Tar Heel with world experi-
ence.”

n
Cc
1°
2
oO
2
Cc
=]
E
E
fe)
oO

Thelma Adair

This experience includes extensive
service in the Presbyterian Church
(USA). During her early days “up
north,” Adair shared ministerial duties
with her late husband, founding in the
early 1940s a church in Harlem which
provided services for children, families.
and the elderly.

She recognizes a particular career in-
terest in today’s students because of the
uncertainty of economic conditions. To
women students, she emphasizes the
need to always ask the question, “Who
am I?” She commented, “In order to be-
come consistently productive, contribut-
ing persons in the society, women must
not be discouraged in their pursuit of his-
torically non-traditional professional and
career Opportunities.”

She sees no need nor room for con-
flict between the liberal arts and the com-
puter. Already in her own work, she has
seen the computer as a valuable tool in
educating handicapped children. Stu-
dents are deserting notebooks for casset-
tes, she says, and the challenge is how to
best maximize computer efficiency in
this “Atari Age.” ;

Adair has one son who is a doctor and
ariother who is a seminary student. Her
daughter works in the insurance indus-
try. She also has four grandchildren.

The Davidson College Communica-
tions Office names the Trustee of the
Month.
