THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXIll, Number 11

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, December 14, 1983

Advisory Council Distributes
Survey On Athletic Policy

By DAVID RESNIK

Davidson’s athletic policy is the
focus of asurvey now being circulated by
the Presidential Advisory Council on In-
tercollegiate Athletics.

The faculty committee on the Advis-
ory Council distributed the surveys to the
faculty on Tuesday. The student commit-
tee on the Advisory Council, in conjunc-
tion with the SGA Athletics Committee,
will distribute surveys to students after
Christmas break.

The survey asks whether Davidson
places too much or too little emphasis on
major intercollegiate sports (football and
basketball), minor intercollegiate sports,
and club sports. The survey also asks
which sports should be emphasized
more, and whether Davidson shouké
have a junior varsity or freshman level of
intercollegiate competition in areas
where there is a demonstrated interest.

The faculty and student surveys ask
the same questions, but the student sur-
vey also asks students to indicate what
sports (intramural and intermural) they
have participated in at Davidson.

‘Neutral Approach’

Advisory Council Secretary and phi-
losophy professor Al Mele said the
Council is taking a neutral approach in
conducting a survey on athletics. “We're
trying to gather student and faculty opin-
ion on athletics as a step toward for-
mulating a philosophy of athletics,” he
said.

Economics professor Peter Hess
agreed with Mele, adding that the Advis-
ory Council is trying to use the survey “to
gather information without revealing our
sentiments,” he said.

He views the survey as “an instru-
ment to generate discussion. The more
information we have, the better our pol-
icy will be,” he said.

Hess said that if the surveys reveal a
strong sentiment about a certain athletic
policy, then the Council will issue a
statement.

Several Drafts

The Advisory Council made several
drafts of the proposal and discussed it
with students, Athletic Director Ed Far-
rell, and Interim President Frontis
Johnston. The Council also asked politi-
cal science professor Thomas Kazee to
critique a preliminary draft of their sur-
vey.
In the fall of 1981 Kazee’s Public
Opinion class asked students a number of
questions about school policy, including
several questions about athletic policy.

Hess is collecting the faculty’s sur-
veys. So far he has received 60 of the ap-
proximately 120 surveys that were distri-
buted. Hess said it would be premature to
release any of the survey results until the
entire survey is compiled. The Advisory
Council may conduct another survey
after they compile the results of the first
survey. ;

Mele said the Advisory Council had
talked about conducting a survey at the
beginning of the school year. “We were
trying to decide what our function should
be,” Mele said. “We decided our func-

- tion was to be a representative body, so

we decided to conduct a survey.”
The Trustee Meeting

The Trustees invited the Advisory
Council to speak at their fall business
meeting. The faculty on the Council ex-
pressed concerned a concern about stu-
dent welfare, in particular the difficulties
freshmen football players face.

Students who attended the meeting
urged that minor and women’s sports
need more funding. The Trustees in-
formed the Advisory Council on the

(Continued on page 4)

D. G. Martin announced his candidacy from the Carolina Inn

Martin Announces Candidacy
For Congressional Seat

By JEFFREY MANN

Declaring himself a “different candi-
date,” D.G. Martin 62 announced his
candidacy last Wednesday for the con-
gressional seat currently held by Jim
Martin, a former Davidson College
chemistry professor.

Davidson was Martin’s fourth stop of
seven for the day.

About 150 people, including a class
from Davidson Elementary School, lis-
tened to the 30-minute speech Martin
made from the balcony of the Center for
Special Studies.

“Because of my independence from
interest groups, I can bring a fresh ap-
proach to solving the problems this coun-
try will face during the remainder of this
century,” Martin said.

Martin is a Charlotte
specializing in real estate law.

In his announcement speech, Martin
called for new priorities in national de-
fense. “Our ‘big stick” — a massive nu-

lawyer

Dean’s Committee Warns Fraternities

By DAVID VAN PELT
Davidson’s Committee on Self-
Selection has issued one warning and one
sanction to fraternities this year in order
to “protect the right of freshmen to self-
select,” according to Committee Chair-
man John Hackett.
The Committee’s sanction consisted
of a brief suspen-
sion of one frater-
nity’s activities.
The warning was
in the form of a
letter sent to
another house.
The Commit-
tee would not re-

John Hackett
lease the names of the fraternities in-
volved.

Chairman Hackett

believes that

penalizing fraternities is apart from the
primary function of the Committee. “I
feel the real role of the Committee is to
work out differences,” he said.

Hackett admitted that while many
fraternities were initially “really resent-
ful” of the Committee, he sees their at-
titudes changing. “A lot of people under-
starid more what we’re trying to do, and
are more supportive of it now,” he said.
The houses generally abided by the Com-
mittee regulation which prohibited their
issuing bids before Thanksgiving, Hac-
kett said.

Committee procedure is still largely
uncertain. As it now stands, any
freshman who desires counseling on the
self-selection process, or feels his rights
have been violated, may contact any
member of the Committee. If the Com-

mittee decides a violation has occurred,
representatives of the affected house are
invited to engage in a hearing to discuss

the matter. Committee members then de- _

cide on appropriate action.

Dean of Students Will Terry or-
ganized and selected the six-member
committee this year, but he is not directly
involved in its proceedings. He does not
attend Committee meetings and only acts
in Committee matters on appeal. “My
emphasis has always been that this
should be a student-run thing as much as
possible,” he said. “I’m very pleased
with their activities so far.”

Sigma Alpha Epsilon President Terry
Kurtts criticized the Committee’s ban on
early oral encouragements, a measure in-
stituted by the Committee to preserve the

(Continued on page 4)

clear deterrent — is a very big stick, but
it may have become too big tocarry. . . .
For this reason, I will support any
reasonable step to terminate, suspend, or
moderate the nuclear arms race,” he said.

He also advocated “pay as you go”
budgetary principles to achieve a ba-
lanced budget. “‘I will support radical and
perhaps unpopular steps to address this
problem unless better proposals are
made,” he said.

Martin has many connections to
Davidson. Martin is the son of former
College president D. Grier Martin and
twice served as class chairman of the
Living Endowment campaign. Henry
Doss took a leave of absence to serve as
Martin’s campaign manager.

Professors Lou Ortmayer, Mary
Thornberry, and Tom Kazee of the
Davidson political science department
have been briefing Martin about some of
the issues likely to come up in the cam-

(Continued on page 4)

Inside This Week

‘Home Brew: Student practices
frugality and good stewardship of re-
sources. Page 5

‘-In the Locker Room: The
heart and soul of women’s basketball.
Page 8

‘Beyond Faith to Reason:
Eric Hill responds to the kernel of
faith. Page 9

‘With Response: Letters. Pages
10-11

