Friday, September 30, 1983/The Davidsonian

~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Othello Fails To Entertain Local Audience

NC Shakespeare
Production A
Disappointment

By ROSS HOLT

The North Carolina Shakespeare Festival, this
state's foremost professional theatre group, generally
delivers entertaining and well-mounted Shakespeare.
The acting is usually quite professional, and towering
but controlled sets combined with exquisitely inventive
costumes generally serve to translate the Elizabethan
idiom successfully to a quite diverse audience.

The Festival’s production of Othello Wednesday
night, however, failed in its chief purpose — to entertain
its audience during an evening at the theatre. The pro-
duction began strongly and sustained its pace and inter-
est until the intermission. But after the break, it found-
ered quickly amid garbled lines, tiring actors, and most
noticeably, the weakness ofSydney Hibbard’s Othello.

Hibbard, a last-minute replacement for Milledge
Mosley, although a powerful presence on stage, muffled
almost all his lines with an accent which sounded as if it
originated samewhere between Jamaica and High Point,
NC. His unhumored, mostly one-level portrayal made
Othello look like a device for Iago’s manipulations
rather than a man given to jealousy and caught in a web
of deceit.

In a sense, this production might well have been the
story of Iago. One of Shakespeare’s richest characters,
«MES tk
one with a weak Othello. But when Eric Zwemer’s tago
stole this show, it must have been the crime of the cen-
tury. Zwemer managed the difficult task of making Iago
more than a cartoon of evil without overmotivating him.
With his jerky movement and brilliant command of the
lines, Zwemer communicated Iago’s bitterness and jeal-
ously without undermining the character’s biting humor.

Zwemer’s achievement and the omnipresence of
lago in the play so overwhelmed the already weak por-
trayal of Othello that the production slowed considera-
bly when Iago was not on stage. Since he appears only
sporadically during the last two acts of the play, the end
— and the play’s tragic actions to which everything

Conan The Barbarian Runs
Popcorn And Poetry

Bete ey Ce et pi PO ieee noes
dose brew ono WwfiT aury protuctotr, macinrtess” *

lago and Othello ina photograph from the High Point production of Othello

leads is up — Petered out and simply fi fizzled.
Gia riur; noweVer, conduct 4'one-niart Show’
Although he without a doubt controlled the production,
the Festival’s reliable and highly talented core members
filled out even the smallest supporting characters. Mary
Hopeman did with Desdemona what she could. A choice
role, Othello’s wife fell prey Wednesday night to Hib-
bard’s one-dimensional performance. Othello seemed
too distant to allow the kind of interaction that would
have given Hopeman’s performance the spark it needed.
The other characters, notably Henson Keyes’s Roderigo
and Randell Haynes’s Cassio, provided solid, human
catalysts for the machinations of Iago.

Director Malcolm Morrison made good use of the

. Dwer

sparse set: two platforms backed by two huge monoliths.

The design allowed Mark Pirolo’s staggering costumery
to achieve its full, regal effect while at the same time not
being overwhelmed by it. The standards used to denote
scene locations were a stroke of brilliance — ably indi-
cating a sense of place without intruding upon either
lines or movement. Still, the whole set design would be
better served by a theater than an auditorium. Its effect,
indeed, could only be enhanced on the Festival's tilted
stage in High Point where a larger battery of lights would
eliminate the whitewashing it got in Love.

Despite Zwener’s brilliance and the staunch support-
ing cast, despite an imaginative stage, Othello still
failed. Though it succeeded in communicating the idiom
and the language, it was scuttled by an Othello who was

., not only manipulated, but controlled by Iago.

ger as Conan is no help either — his act-

By MATT MORRIS

Conan the Barbarian(t982) Produced
and directed by John Milius. Screenplay
by John Milius. Based on the stories by
Robert E. Howard and the Marvel Comic
Book. Rating: ** Viewer’s Guide: Frank
Frazetta frankness and three stooges vio-
lence. :

Since the beginning of the Marvel
Comie book Conan the Barbarian back
in 1969, a large cult following has built

up atound the Robert E. Howard crea-
tion. Books, magazines and art shows
have centered around Conan and now we
have the inevitable movie. Much of
Conan’s mystique derives from his very
anti-hero nature. If there is money in it
for him, he’d just as soon chop up a good
guy with his saber than a bad guy. What
separated the Conan books and comics
from other sword and.sorcery fare how-
ever, was it’s beautiful, lyrical quality.
Each page of the comic book (especially
the early issues) reads like a Canto from
Dante’s Divine Comedy. Unfortunately,
overrated director John Milius can’t de-
cide whether he should strive for poetic
or popcorn pleasures and his Conan

wot

1 AP

movie ends up failing miserably in both
categories. The plot limps from episode

-to episode and the film appears to have

been edited with all the precision of a

Hyborian sword. Amold Schwarzeneg-

ing recalls John Agar in Wine, Women
and Horses(1937). . .back to the dum-
bells, dumbell. James Earl Jones is
creepy for a while as the half man-half
snake villain, but suddenly it seems he’s
decided that he’s acting in an episode of
Batman and goes to summer camp, Man-
tan Moreland style. The saving grace for
Conan the Barbarian is the exquisite per-
formance by hard-nosed (albeit slightly
big nosed) Sandahl Bergman. Her fiery
performance as Conan’s woman almost
makes up for the otherwise poor acting
and dreary direction. As one critic put
it— “Conan adequately depicts the
Stoned Age”. . . .you might enjoy it if
you are, —
