8 Friday , September 30, 1983/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

soccer Climaxes Week With Overtime Victory

By BOYD BLACKBURN

Yesterday afternoon Davidson beat
Winthrop 2-1 in overtime to climax a
week in which the Cats won three games
and tied one on their way to two tourna-
ment championships.

The Wintrhop game was the cham-
pionship of the Charlotte Area Soccer
Tournament, which Davidson won last
year in a shootout against Winthrop.
Tuesday, the Wildcats played rival
UNCC to a 1-1 tie after two overtimes
and advanced to the finals.

Although UNCC is ranked number
10 in the South and last spring they domi-
nated Davidson in several games, David-
son outplayed and outhustled them in the
first half. Ten minutes before half time
the Cats caught UNCC’s defense up and
Tony Cabrales fed Sean Austin who
quickly hit a left-footed volley past the
keeper. It was his third goal in three
games.

(Crass, Country Squeaks By Roanoke _

Ry RAND HARTSELL

“Battles are won and lost in the
trenches” goes the old cliché most often
applied to football games. Easily recog-
nizable, the trench is formed by the of-
fensive and defensive lines. But
“trenches” in cross-country? That's
another thing.

Davidson squeaked by Roanoke Col-
lege but narrowly lost to Emory Univer-
sity in Roanoke last Saturday, September
27. Frank Ivey again led the Cats with his
second place finish.

Tony Lewis pulled away from Ivey
on a 200 yard long hill during the fourth
mile of the 4.41 mile race. Lewis
lengthened his lead on the following
down-hill as‘he finished ten seconds
ahead of Ivey with a time of 25:03. Ivey
was eight seconds ahead of Roanoke run-
ner Andy Chocklett at the finish, and the
order of the finish of the top three indi-
viduals foretold the outcome of the team
competition.

Freshman Trey Jammes ran well,

Soccer team during practice last week

After finishing the half on an upbeat
note, Davidson came out sluggish and
lazy. UNCC took advantage of this and
slowed the tempo to its own preference.
Ten minutes into the second half their
wing hit a 30-yard cross which carried
into the net after deflecting off Dan
Blood’s foot. It was a one-in-a-million

finishing in tenth place overall with Jim
Rogers placing directly behind him in
eleventh. Jammes and Rogers battled in
their own “trench,” inspired by Coach
Sterling Martin’s pep talk. Bob Watkins
and Greg Foreman placed | Sth and 16th
respectively, also inspired by Martin's
strategy.

But it was evident that some of the
Cats had not performed up to their own,
if not other’s expectations. Foreman,
who finished second for the team the pre-
vious week at Duke, had a hard time with
the hills.

“At the top of the hills I'd get dry
heaves,” lamented Foreman.

Brian Zielinski finished out of scor-
ing position, dropping to the number
seven position on the team. (In cross-
country, the top five runner’s places are

totaled to determine a team’s score. The ©

lowest score wins.) Zielinski felt dis-
couraged very early in the race. “I was so
far back by a half mile. . .,” reflected the
senior harrier disdainfully.

Although Davidson was unable to de-

shot but it gave them the pick-up they
needed. The rest of the game, including
two ten-minute overtimes was played
evenly with neither team able to score.
To determine who advanced to the fi-
nals, there was a penalty kick shootout.
Five players from éach team were picked
to participate. Pete Burr kicked first for

feat Emory, the Cats defeated the Wake
Forest “B” team and Lynchburg College
(in addition to Roanoke), improving
their record to 3-2.

“Our performance definitely shows
an improvement at different levels of the
team,” said Martin before practice one
day this week. ‘Frank {Ivey] and I are
very encouraged by the development of
the runners.”

Davidson's top five spread improvec
49 seconds from the previous week’s
spread at Roanoke. The spread at
Roanoke was | minute 43 seconds com-
pared to a spread of 2:32 at Duke. Ironi-
cally, Davidson had a lower spread than
Emory (lower by 19 seconds), but the At-
lanta school was unable to bunch up
more runners than Davidson.

The Cats will need some good perfor-
mances “in the trenches” tomorrow when
they face Appalachian State, Furman,
Western Carolina, and the Citadel. Host
ASU will be the class of the field, boast-
ing victories this season over ACC pow-
ers Wake Forest and N.C. State.

Field Hockey Edges Catawba 3-2

By KARA GILMORE

The Lady Cats took the field against
the Catawba Lady Indians Tuesday after-
noon, fired up and ready to go after an
eight-day “break” since their last game.
The “break” was only a break in the sense
that they didn’t have any games. Coach
Daley used the time to work on contition-
ing and specific skills. Practices em-
phasized controlled play, passing, re-
ceiving and stickwork.

The game didn’t start off the way the
Lady Cats wanted it to, though. The first
two times Catawba got the ball down
near their goal the Davidson defense
lapsed on their marking and the Lady In-

dians scored. But being down 2-0 only
served to get the Lady Cats more fired
up. They came charging back and abused
the Catawba sweeper and goalie with a
deluge of shots on goal, tying the game at
2-2 in a matter of minutes. Both goals
were scored as a result of penalty cor-
ners. Freshman Heather McKee sent the
ball in towards goal both times. The first

- time it caused a scramble in front of the

goal cage with Mavin Martin managing
to pop one past the Catawba goalie. The
second time Laura Hills got a stick on the
ball as McKee sent it in and deflected it
into the cage. The score stayed at 2-2
through the second half despite the fact

that the Lady Cats dominated. Catawba
didn’t even manage a shot on goal the
whole half. For the game the Lady Cats
outshot Catawba 26-S.

But for the second time in a row the
game went into overtime. This time there
was to be no messing around with a dou-
ble overtime tie like last week’s as the
Lady Cats came charging out and scored
within the first three minutes of the over-
time with Mavin Martin getting her sec-
ong goal of the game. The Lady ’Cats
then held on for a 3-2 win.

The Lady ’Cats challenge archrival
Pfeiffer this afternoon.at 4:00.

Kevin Horan

Davidson and put it easily into the upper
right corner as the goalie dived left.
UNCC followed with a goal of their own.
Wallis Goodman then scored for the Cats
and their speedy wing who scored their
goal missed when he hit the crossbar.
Mike Mauzé and Tony Cabrales con-
verted their shots as did one UNCC
player. Then goalie Pat Woodward made
a kick save and clinched the shootout for
Davidson.

In yesterday’s game at Winthrop,

Davidson was just getting used to the
blustery winds and sloping field when
Winthrop scored at point blank range be-
cause of a miscommunication between
Davidson’s fullbacks.
— It took Davidson a while to wake up,
but once they did they dominated the
play and rarely let Winthrop start any
kind of attack. Minutes before half, Sean
Austin hit a loose ball (and the goal
keeper) into the net for a Davidson record
— four goals from straight games. Au-
stin has admirably filled the scoring gap
left by the departure of last year’s scoring
sensation Chris Roberts.

After .a.scoreless second_half, the
Wildcats put Winthrop away two mi-

nutes into overtime on Cabrales’s corner
kick which bounced untouched and was

snapped into the net by David Flowers’s
head. The goal capped off a week which
also included winning the Hampden-
Sydney Invitational over the weekend.
On Saturday, the University of
Richmond fell to Davidson 1-0. The
game was characterized by Davidson
ees ine, tm finich 2g. Searing oppor-
tunities time after time. Coach’ Slagle’s
frustration was evident as he stormed up
and down the sideline kicking towels and
coolers all over the place. Local sports
editor Steve Soud has called him the
“John Madden of college soccer.” With
five minutes left, Cabrales and Austin
teamed up again for the only score of the
game. Cabrales hit a long ball which Au-
stin ran down and kicked past the charg-
ing keeper. That put them in the finals
against Hampden-Sydney the next day.
This Hampden-Sydney team was
much improved over the team which lost
by one goal to Davidson last year. How-
ever, they were no match for the
Wildcats on that day as Davidson played
their strongest game of the season on the
way to a 3-0 win. Austin, Burr, and
sweeper Jim Wright scored. Wright's
goal was a beautiful example of ball con-
trol from a player more known for his ag-
gressive tackling than his ball skills.
After picking up a loose ball at midfield,
he dribbled some 30 yards through vari-
ous Hampden-Sydney defenders before
launching a left-footed blast from 20
yards out. The goalie never had a chance.
The tournament victories fulfilled
two of Coach Slagle’s. four goals this

~year. The others are a winning record and

the Southern Conference Championship.
Davidson opens its conference schedule
against Appalachian State on Wednes-
day at Boone. The Wildcats are 5-1-1.
