THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, September 30, 1983 -

Volume LXXIill, Number 3

Jack Cobb, Sheila Carr, and Mike Tantillo celebrate one of the last pitchers

Effective Midnight Tonight

NC Raises Drinking Age

By DAN VOORHIS, JEFF MANN,
and DAVID RESNIK

After midnight tonight, 18 year olds
can no longer drink legally in North
Carolina. As a result many standard
Davidson social practices will have to
change to satisfy enforcement of the law.

Right now, questions remain over the
extent to which alcohol-serving institu-
tions must go to prevent freshman from
drinking. Dean of Students Will Terry
said he anticipated “no major changes”

because of the new law. “Our basic phi-
losophy is that students ought to uphold
state law. That won’t change,” he added.
Rob Spaugh, Chairman of the Patterson
Court Council agreed, “It will be an ad-
justment on the part of the freshmen, not
the houses and freshmen halls. They
have to be mature enough not to drink un-
derage and get someone arrested.”
~ _z» Barefoot Speaks

Alcohol law’ enforcement officer ~

John Barefoot, speaking to Patterson

Peggy Pie

Court officers and Hall Counselors two
weeks ago, said that the law would be
strictly enforced. He explained that the
officers of a house were liable if a minor
was caught drinking there. Dining Ser-
vices Director Carlton Pritchard, who 1s
responsible for the school’s liquor
license, would be liable for underage
drinking in the 900 Room.

In a later meeting, Barefoot took a
milder tone, saying that sufficient effort
on the part of the institution would place
most of the responsiblity on the violator.
What exactly must be done to avoid lia-
bility remains hazy, but some concrete
measures have been determined.

College Policy

The College's policy is “to uphold
the law,” said Associate Dean of Stu-
dents Sue Ross. “Whether we agree with
the law or not, we will do anything to
create an atmosphere in which the law ts
upheld,” she added. “We're not in the
business of enforcement.” The school
will play no part in enforcement even
though breaking North Carolina state law
automatically violates the Code of Re-
sponsibility. Instead, ABC agents and
state bureau will enforce the the law.

Ross felt that “peer pressure is the
only thing that will make freshmen obey
the law. If upperclassmen tell the
freshmen to be patient, then they will.
But if the attitude is ‘let’s get around this
any way we can,’ it will fail.”

The new law will affect four areas:
Patterson Court (especially freshman
rush), freshman halls, the 900 Room,
and local restaurants.

Patterson Court

Patterson Court offers the most com-
plex problem. Its social life centers
around parties ware aruncr foo. oS

(Continued on page 4)

Phi Society
To Admit
Women

By ANN MEADOR

The Philanthropic Society, David-
son’s oldest literary society. voted Mon-
day night to admit women as full mem-
bers for the first time in its 140-year his-
tory.

The motion passed by a 6-3 vote. the
minimum two-thirds vote possible for
the change to pass.

An alteration in by-laws wording
made it possible for women to become
members. In three places the word gent
lemen was changed to persons.

Women present at the meeting to sup-
port the change were Elizabeth Kiss °83,
Women Concerns Committee members
senior Carole Jolly, senior Beth Findlay,
junior Martha Nelson, and junior Ellen
Papadeas.

Kiss spoke briefly on behalf of the
change, saying that the Society had the
right not to let women join; the question
rested in whether it was the best thing not
to let in women.

“It’s an important change because
there are women who want to join,” Jolly
said. “It is better to let women in because
a goal of the Phi Society is letting in new
ideas, debating different viewpoints.”
She said that Davidson women could
provide such different points of view.

Phi Society member Hunter Monroe

soe (Cantinued on page 4)

Students, Administrators Speculate On ATO Closing

By ANN MEADOR

Business Office’s View

“You can’t say we didn’t work,” said ATO Social
Chairman Kirk Kirkpatrick of the eating house’s efforts
at recruiting new members last spring. Nonetheless.
College officials cite unsuccessful recruiting efforts as a
major reason for the house's closing at
the end of fall term.

Dean of Students Will Terry names
two major reasons for ATO’s problems.
“They didn’t work on getting members,”
he said. “They just sat and did nothing.” Terry em-
phasized the importance of “going out and making the
effore. at recruiting freshmen, especially with the com-
petition from the two-year-old College Commons.

Another problem, Terry said, was ATO’s lack of a
strong and attractive social program. Though Terry
pointed out that a campus-wide social program was not
essential to drawing potential members, he did note the
importance of_a strong social life within the house.

“There was a lethargy in the house.” Terry said.

Kirkpatrick attributed the closing to a trend which
started three years ago: “This year marked the third year
of the trauma ‘Are we going to close the house?’” Much
of the problem, he said, came from “the ATO reputa-
tion, the aura that the people who eat there are different
from other on the [Patterson] Court, the reputation for
‘weirdness.’ It’s not a deserved reputation,” he said.

ATO President Richard Barber said that ATO suf-

NEWS
ANALYSIS

fered from “not necessarily what the house’s image was.
but how the house tried to change its image” in recent
years. In the past, students came to ATO without much
active recruiting from the house, Barber said. But during
his sophomore year, Barber and his housemates realized
that the house would no longer survive on passively at-
tracting new members.

“There was so much consciousness about the
[house’s] situation that [efforts at recruiting] may have
backfired,” he said. Potential new members were put
under a slow pressure to commit themselves to the
house, Barber said. ““We may have been trying too hard
to get members.”

ATO may have suffered from laziness in the past,
Barber said, but “it’s not the case in the past two years.”

Kirkpatrick said ATO made a real effort at attracting

~ new members to the house last spring. Despite the good

turnout for cookouts and cocktail parties, only seven
freshmen self-selected ATO. “No matter how good a
time they had, they wouldn’t eat there,” Kirkpatrick
said.

Kirkpatrick said that the house would not have been
able to reopen in the fall with so few new members, but
they picked up more than ten new members over the
summer. “When school opened, we just counted heads
one night and decided to stay open,” he said. They
realized they would have to close when they saw the
number of members leaving at the end of fall term.

Davidson College Business Manager Bob Currie
suggested that the addition of an eleventh court house,
Warner Hall, and the opening of the Commons di-
minished ATO’s membership security.

‘The Commons is bound to have an effect,” he said.
“but it’s unintentional.”

As for the effect of Warner Hall, Currie said that

(Continued on page 4)

Inside This Week

-Circus Drifter: Life in a circus isn’t always a
party. Page 7

-Soccer Boppers: The Cats climax with a 5-1-1
record. Page 8

-Wonder!: The unexamined life by Resnik. Page
11

‘Barbarian On Campus: See it this weekend.
Page 6

‘Humor: Back page

