Apology

To the Editor:

I am writing this letter to apologize
to the Davidson tudent and faculty
members for my actions in the 900
Room earlier this year. I am very sorry
that I behaved in such an offensive man-
ner. I meant to harm no one, and it will
never happen again.

Sincerely,
Ernest C. Andrews Jr.

Interpretation

To the Editor:

Regarding the quotation of the Da-
vidson College Trustee cited in Dean
Terry’s letter to The Davidsonian of 14
January 1983 that “The Davidson stu-
dent stinks and doesn’t deserve to be
consulted in a presidential search,” we
have several comments.

First, we suspect that the Trustee in
question was, in fact, misquoted.
Knowing that this institution’s Trustees
have an unimpeachable reputation for
loyalty to, support of, and belief in the
quality of Davidson students, there re-
mains no doubt in our minds that he ac-
tually said: “The Davidson student
thinks and doesn’t deserve to be consult-
ed in a presidential search.” The ob-

-

vious implication of this statement is
that the Trustees do not think and, ergo,
are qualified to conduct such a search.

Second, if, however, the Trustee’s
statement was not misquoted by Dean
Terry, we are in a quandary as whether
to interpret his remark in a literal or a fi-
gurative sense. If his articulation were
meant as an olfactory description, we
must admit it is not without merit. Let us
not be oblique; who among us has not
skipped a shower on occasion?

But, in the highly unlikely circum-
stance that the Trustee’s ejaculation was
intended in a figurative and derogatory
sense, we would have to express our
disappointment. The ineptitude and in-
capacity exhibited in this individual’s
facility with the English language is ap-
palling. The quality of the vituperation
was at best prepubescent. In our hum-
ble, albeit knowledgeable, opinion, the
Davidson student body deserves a more

ive insult.
creative insu Lance Stokes *83
Marvin Overby ’83

Reply to Trustee

To the Editor:

The trials of the Notre Dame basket-
ball game have inspired widespread
commentary, some of which has ques-
tioned the integrity of the Davidson stu-
dent body. We, too, find much of the
behavior by fans at basketball games
obnoxious, but we question whether or

_The Mail

not this behavior can be justifiably leg-
islated. This, however, is not the focus
of our letter, for we feel that the most
pressing issue has been heretofore over-
looked.

Will Terry’s letter to the Editor
(January 14, Davidsonian) quoted an
anonymous Davidson trustee, com-
menting on the behavior of students be-
hind the Notre Dame bench, as saying,
“The Davidson student stinks and
doesn’t deserve to be consulted in a pre-
sidential search.” Surely Will printed
the remark in hopes of showing students
how their actions might influence public
opinion concerning the College. Will
wrote, “That’s a sweeping generaliza-
tion (the trustee’s comment], but it de-
livers the message, I hope.”

To declare, on the basis of the ac-
tions of a few students at a basketball
game, that “the Davidson student
stinks,” is ridiculous enough, but to
claim further that the Davidson student
is incapable of constructively participat-
ing in the presidential search exhibits an
irresponsible ignorance of the rules of
logic and of the valuable resources pres-
ent in the Davidson student body. It is
extremely upsetting that this unfortu-
nate statement was made by a trustee of
the College — someone who holds a
highly respected position in the David-
son community, and someone who has
the power to take part in decisions vital
to the fate of Davidson College.

Maybe the trustee did not mean
what he or she said. Perhaps the state-
ment .was taken out of context. The
problem is that we cannot conceive of a
context in which the statement would
have any merit or be any less offensive.
If we have misrepresented or misinter-
preted the trustee’s statement in any
way, we respectfully invite him or her to
clarify the statement in question.

It is our collective opinion that any
person who can make a comment no
more constructive that “the Davidson
student stinks” should carefully consid-
er whether or not he or she should con-
tinue to serve on the Board of Trustees.

Laura Petrou ’83

Hal Martin ’83

(and 80 other concerned students — a
list of signatures may be seen at the Da-
vidsonian office.)

THE DAVIDSONIAN.
- Post Orrice Box 218, DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036

~

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes let-
tcrs from our readers. We try to print
all letters that are of general interest,
but we adhere to these four .guide-
lines: *

1. We require that letters be in our
hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.

_ 2. We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3. We require that letters be
signed and include the author's phone
number and address. If you have a
compelling reason for us to withhold
your name. explain your situation to
the editor, Stewart Cauley.

4. We reserve the right not to print
letters that (a) function as advertise-
ments, (b) contain innuendo, off-¢p-
lor slurs. or inside jokes; (c) represent
a viewpoint very Similar to that ex-
pressed in many other letters printed
on the same topic. We also reserve the
right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any
way endorse the opinions expressed
in the letters we print.

Poor Judgement

To the Editor:

I was really surprised to read the let-
ter in last week’s Davidsonian by Hal
Elliott, Carl Elliott, Gray Hampton, and
Ed Whitesides in which they mocked a
person who died of a hunger strike (does
it matter who?). Reading through the
string of carefully contrived puns, |
could only feel sick, sad, and angry that
such brutal insensitivity to human suf-
fering could be revealed here at David-
son—and published—for the sake of a
joke and some “controversial political
analysis.”

It is hard to believe that anyone
could have signed their name to that let-
ter. I guess they think they are very clev-
er. I think they should seriously ask
themselves if they have learned any-
thing at Davidson of any real value.

John Krotchko ’83

Subscriptions cost #2; per year within the United States and its. possessions;

16. per year elsewhere in North America; 22. in Europe (30 air-speeded).
Rates for the Far East and Oceania upon request.

. .v THE. DAVIDSONIAN/28 January 1983

