Gamecocks Better Wildcats, 65-62

Cats Host Western Carolina Monday, UT-Chattanooga Saturday

By STEVE SOUD ’84

After winning a grudge match over
much-improved Appalachian State last
Friday, the Wildcats journeyed wouth
to face th Gamecocks of South Caroli-
na.

The outcome was much closer than
the Cocks might have wished, as Dav-
didson threatened to pull out another
last-second win as they did in a 52-51
thriller last year. Instead, South Caroli-
na had the last-minute heroics as they
won a 65-62 decision over the visiting
Cats.

With 1:31 remaining in the game,
USC held a slim 63-6 2 lead and the
ball. The Gamecocks worked for an in-
surance basket, but Gerald Peacock was
called for the charge. Davidson sat on
the ball looking for the winning basket,
but with :36 remaining, the ball was bat-
ted out of bounds by a Gamecock. Ri-
chard Wilson inbounded for the Wild-
cats, but Kevin Darmody deflected the
Davidson pass bound for Kenny Wil-
son. He scooped up the loose ball and
passed it to Scott Sanderson. Brian Ro-
wan fouled Sanderson with :28 remain-
ing, sending him to the line for the one-
and-one. Sanderson  unflinchingly
canned both shots to insure the win.

The surprise for the Gamecocks was
that the pesky Wildcats were that close
at all. The Wildcats, on the other hand,
entered the game intent upon a low-
scoring affair. “If we can hold in the 50s
or 60s, we feel like we have a shot at
winning,” assistant coach Jim Baker
said before the game. Even when the
38-38 halftime tie indicated a faster

pace than the Wildcats wanted, they
were playing with enough confidence to
win.

The Wildcats, scoring inside and
outside, off the break and out of the
half-court offense, dazzled the more tal-
ented Gamecocks and held onto a steady
two-point lead. USC cut it to one for the
first time with 7:32 left in the first half as
Rowan was called for a technical foul.
Fifty seconds later, the Cocks took their

Olt Tribus stretches toward the goal

first lead, 24-23, as Harold Martin
scored on pull-up jumper from the right.

The game remained on its two-point
seesaw down to the halftime buzzer.
Then, with :03 left, Kenny Wilson
scored his fourteenth point of the half
with the typing (38-38) jumper from 17
feet.

The Wildcats regained the lead
briefly with 15:23 remaining, as a Ri-
chard Wilson layup off a steal gave Da-
vidson a 50-48 advantage. Carolina was
back ahead by the 14:37 mark, and by
the 6:01 mark had built the lead to 60-
56. Jim McConkey hit a pair of jumpers
from the right side to give Davidson a
62-61 lead with 3:54 remaining, but
those were Davidson’s last points.

Davidson played its best all-around
game since the Furman road win in early
January. The defense stifled the Game-
cock inside game and forced them to
shoot from the perimeter. The Cocks
shot from there with alarming accuracy
(59.1 percent for the game), which
eventually gave them the win. The
Wildcats finished with a 54.3 percent
scoring pace, but it wasn’t quite
enough.

Kenny Wilson, who pestered the
Gamecocks throughout the first half,
was ineffectual in the second. He was 5
of 9 from the field with 14 points in the
first half, but the USC defense limited

_ him to an 0-for-3 second half. His only

two second-half points were from the
free throw line. “We played well
enough to win, but didn’t,” Wilson
said.

Tomorrow night the Cats travel to
lexington, Virginia to face the hapless

"he vall's sure of KW

Keydets of VMI. Monday they return to
Johnston Gym to face revitalized West-
ern Carolina, and next Saturday is the
rematch with hated, league-leading UT-
Chattanooga featuring the White-Wil-
kins aerial circus. Then, the Monday
night of exams is the annual game
against archrival UNCC. Ex-Davidson
star John Gullickson is now leading the
Forty-niners, so come out and support
your Cats.

Lady Cats Win Third Straight

By KARA GILMORE ’85

For the women’s basketball team,
winning has been like an addicitve drug
— once they’ ve gotten a taste of it they
can’t get enough of it. The women were
2-0 for the past week, giving them a 3
game winning streak and victories in 4
out of their last 5 games.

Throughout this stretch different
players have provided the necessary
“spark” at appropriate ‘times. At the
same time, Mike Frankhouser has con-
tinued to play with unparalled consist-
ency, scoring 20 or more points in each
of the last 5 games, with an average of
25.4 ppg over that span. She has topped
the 30-point total twice. The first time

was two weeks ago when she put in 33
against Methodist, and the second came
Tuesday night versus Cohen when she
connected for 32.

The two victories this week, both at
home, were Saturday afternoon over
Greensboro College by the score of 62-
50 and Tuesday night over Cohen Col-
lege by a 63-40 margin.

Saturday in the Greensboro game
the Lady Cats benefited from their most
well-balanced attack of the year. Frank-
hauser, Mitzi Short, and Carol Heppner
all hit in double figures with 21, 15, and
10 points. As for rebounding, Heppner
pulled in 11, and Frankhauser 10. For-
ward Jeanne Womack dished out 6 as-
sists.

Coach Mayes said, “We played well

and were in control of the game most of
the time. We came out and played much
stronger in the second half than in th
first. This was good to see because I’ve
been stressing how important it is for us
to do this. We always seem to start out
slowly and if we don’t come on strong
any later than the start of the second half
we simply run out of time to catch up.”

The game Tuesday against the Co- .

hen Cobras was, as Coach Mayes put it,
“a revenge game.” Earlier in the season
the Lady Cats had lost a close one to Co-
hen in what Mayes had termed, “the
most physical game I’ve ever seen as a
coach.”

Tuesday’s game started physically
as well. It settled down somewhat, how-
ever, when Coker’s big inside player,

Joanne New, got into early foul trouble.
Mayes said, “Mike made some nice
moves inside and got New into early
trouble — this really limited her playing
time and gave us an advantage right
away.”

As far as execution went the Lady
Cats had the game under control. They
got Frankhouser a lot of rebounds
(Frankhouser 15, Womack 11) and took
advantage of them with a well-run fast
break. When the break wasn’t there,
however, they did an excellent job of
running their half court offense.

As Cohen switched from a zone de-
fense to a man-to-man, the Lady Cats
smoothly adjusted their offense and
kept right on rolling. Mayes said, “Last
time we played them, we lost the ball

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983
