The Davidsonian/Friday, October 14, 1983 11

~ OPINIONS

On The Road Again?

Fletcher Fairey

It is 11:59 Friday night, September 30, and as the
Davidson freshmen down their last legal alcohol this
year, there are some moans, some groans, a few curses,
and many tears. But no matter how much beer the
freshmen chug this last minute or how much they sigh,
tomorrow the legal drinking age in North Carolina will
be nineteen. No more drinks. No more parties. Many
wonder if life itself will continue. Life will go on,
though, and the law will go into effect Saturday , October
1. But the question remains if this law should be en-
forced at Davidson College. Yes, Davidson does have a
responsibility, to obey North Carolina law. Davidson

~ owes it, as a resident, to North Carolina and, as a teach-
ing institution, to its students. But to enforce the letter of
this drinking law at Davidson is to overlook and to vio-
late the spirit of the law. . ,

The raising of the drinking age is only one of many
strict laws passed in order to put an end to drunk-driving.
These laws are rational and well-founded. Drunk-driv-
ing massacres thousands of people a year. The victims of

such massacres are usually innocent, sober, but unfortu-
nate bystanders. There are many tragic stories about the
death of a straight-A student, a head cheerleader, the
mode] student who drove home from an evening at the li-
brary, play rehearsal, or student government meeting
only to be smashed head-on by a man who had spent the
entire night carousing at the local bar. Such disastrous
murders should be prevented, and if one life is saved, the
new laws are worthwhile.

It is for this reason — to prevent drunk-driving —
that North Carolina has passed the “nineteen-year-old”
law. And it is for this reason — to prevent drunk-driving
— that North Carolina should not enforce this law at
Davidson College. With all the freshmen students living
on campus, few get behind the wheel after a Patterson
Court party. With the advent of the new FIJI bus, few
will get in cars after an off-campus party. The security of
dormitory is always a few stumbles away.

But if the new drinking laws are enforced, students
will see South Carolina as the Promised Land, where the
legal drinking age is still eighteen and which is less than
an hour’s drive away. In great multitudes freshmen will
make their exodus to across-the-border bars, and after
many drinks these same freshmen will have to drive back
to Davidson. While the stumbles back to dormitory may

lead to wrecked bushes, broken flowers, and a few
twisted ankles, those long car rides back to campus often
lead to wrecked cars, broken bones, and a few twisted
bodies.

The law has other drawbacks which will be felt
around the state. For example, this law will be difficult
to enforce. Also, is an eighteen year old who is old
enough to vote at election time and die at wartime not old
enough to drink alcohol at party time and take responsi-
bility for his drinking? These statewide arguments are
reasonable, but because of our proximity to South
Carolina, the Davidson community must be concerned
with the hazards of a road trip on I-77.

Back at the party it is now 12:15, and it is the denial
of partying which most for which freshmen are still
groaning over, cursing about, and crying. But with this
law and the exodus of freshman to legal lands, who
knows what the freshmen will be groaning over, cursing
about, and crying for next week. Indeed, it may be for a
friend that died on a South Carolina road. This friend did
not want to drink in North Carolina. She only wanted to
obey the law.

Fairey is a freshman from Pawley’s Island, S.C.

You Better Watch Your Speed

Mike Stephens

A while back I had the pleasure of hearing a speaker
from the United States Department of Transportation.
He was giving a report based on a study of the effective-
ness of the 55 mile per hour speed limit. I don’t exactly
remember how long the 55 mile per hour speed limit has
been in existence, but I do remember my father comp-
laining about it. This particular government official was
quite pleased with the effect of the change and deemed it
a resounding success. His reasoning for this lay in the
fact that while the speed limit was set at 70 mph, the na-
tional average speed of those maniac weekend vacation-

. ers making their wild runs to the lakes and beaches was
somewhere in the neighborhood of 85 to 89 miles per
hour. The national average since the change has run
somewhere around 67 to 69 mph, based on police reports
and surveys. This drop was to him a big improvement.

I thought about that report long and hard and came to
the conclusion tht it was typical of the misguided legal
system that we, as citizens of this fine country, have
come to know and love. The reason I felt this way is sim-
ple. What is the basic reason for a law? As far as I can
tell, laws are instituted to give people a guideline by

which to live their lives. As the words “Speed Limit 55
mph” suggest, laws are just that — limits. They are not
to be exceeded.

The 55 mph speed limit should therefore be telling
the people of America that the safe and /egal speed for
operating an automobile is any speed up to 55 mph. |
don’t know about you, but the last time I drove for any
length of time at 55 miles an hour I was honked off the
road. It seems that 55 has become the new lower speed
limit and that the U.S. Department of Transportation
deems this move’ resounding success. Some success!
The law instituted to govern our highways is still being
broken and probably on a grander scale now than before.

I once spoke with a police officer in a small Georgia
town who said that it was the policy of his department to
ticket any driver who is going over ten miles per hour
faster than the posted speed limit. This seems to me the
same sort of legal interpretation that would call for shop-
lifters to be prosecuted only after they had taken over 10
dollars worth of merchandise or that would prosecute
only mass murderers because the single homicide is not
as bad.

Now don’t let me make you think that I am equating
driving 56 mph with mass murder, but, in a way, it is the
same. It is a law with a specific limit set up to govern the
activities of a group of people. Its violation should,
therefore, be enforced. Now I am not begging for a

speeding ticket, but I would like to see a few signs that
say, “Speed Limit 55, but it’s 0.k. to go 65. Trucks 55,
but we aren’t going to mess with you.”

I can just imagine what would have happened if the
Israelites had been given their laws as we are given
them. Thou shalt not lie much. Thou shalt not steal from
thy friends. Thou shalt not commit too much adultery for
thou might get caught. I suppose Moses would have
been pretty mad. I also think that even Moses would
have had a hard time driving 55.

I don’t really guess that there is anything that can be
done to get the American driver to consistently drive 55
mph, short of lowering what is now called “posted speed
limit” — indicating that it is posted and not observed —
to 35 miles per hour and enforcing it as we now enforce
the 55 law. I do think, however, that the people that
make the laws should have a long talk with the people
that enforce the laws. Maybe they could come to some
kind of happy medium and enforce a 65 mph limit. This
would achieve the same basic ends in that the national
speed would probably remain at what it is now. It would
also mean that I could stop my constant paranoid glances
into the rear view mirror to find flashing lights on my
maniac weekend runs to the lake.

Stephens is a Freshman from Roswell, Georgia
and is Opinions Editor for The Davidsonian.

Spanky’s Crime

To the Editors:

Funk or New Wave? This is what
we're stuck with. Today’s music pre-
sents us with little else besides — Boy —
Girl — Other (Check one) George sing-
ing “I’ll Tumble for Ya” or little Michael
Jackson clones belting out heart felt bal-
lads such as “Candy Girl.” It is for this
reason that we take particular offense to

chronicity by the Police. Just when the
world of music seemed to hit rock bottom
(Thriller’s 15th week at number one).
The Police bombarded us with ten of the
most innovative, thought-inspiring
songs to come out since 1981 (when
Ghosts in the Machine was released).
“The Police have finally de-
cided. . . (to) turn intellectual.” This ar-
gument is as weak as the “Near Beer”
sold in the 900 room. We realize that
since you are a freshman, five years ago
when The Police put out their first

album, you were still roller skating on

Friday nights to the fun sounds of Kiss.

This is no excuse for not doing your re-

search, Stephen. The Police’s unique

sound sets them apart from all their con-

temporaries. Outlandos D’Amour, Re-

gata de, Blanc, Zenyatta Mondatta,

Ghosts in the Machine, Synchronic-

ity. . . le meillure du monde — look it
up Spanky.

Pat Millen

Rob Vaughn

Chris Klett

David Stout

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from our readers. We require that let-
ters be signed and include the author's
address and phone number. All letters

must be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tues-
day. We reserve the right to edit letters

fot length and clarity. The Davidso-
nian does not in any way endorse the
opinions expressed in the letters it
prints.

