10 Friday, September 23, 1983/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

The Fall Of The
House Of ATO

The second Patterson Court house in six months has announced
that it will close at the end of the term. For ATO, a long battle of de-
clining membership and financial instability has finally ended.

In considering the meaning of this closing, some basic questions
confront the College community, particularly Patterson Court: What
will happen to the old ATO members? Could a similar fate befall
other Court houses? How can the remaining Patterson Court houses
prevent another closing? These are questions which appeared with the
closing of ETC last spring, and they recur with ATO’s folding.

The answer to all three involves one group, the students eating on
Patterson Court. Useful solutions to these problems will be arrived at

veh

Olly iF neues MonruTie Chany oes ee it the closing of ATQ,

may signal.

First, the 39 students eating at ATO will need to find new places to
eat, and other houses stand to profit if they recognize the importance
of keeping those students on the Court. It would be a shame to lose
former eating house members to the Commons or independent dining;
more students forego the Court all the time, a phenomenon which di-
minishes the Court each year. Houses should try at least to maintain
the same number of students on the Court, and encouraging ATO
members to join another house is a good‘way to accomplish this. °

Next, houses must realize that they can suffer the fate of ATO;
prosperous houses must avoid falling into complacency. It is easy to
forget that ATO thrived a few years ago, the same way ETC did. As it
turns out, it takes fairly little for a house to fold: a bad rush one or two
years, a few dull parties, a loss of faith in the house. In contrast, main-
taining a house requires enormous commitment. Because Patterson
Court houses retain remarkable autonomy, the success — or failure
— of a house depends solely on its members. Unlike many organiza-
tions at Davidson, an eating house cannot survive without considera-
ble student support.

Finally, the future of Patterson Court is not altogether bleak.
Houses which once faced rumors of folding are now stronger than
ever; PAX is one such example. As the houses’ popularity fluctuates,
so will their financial stability. But even in prosperity, all the houses
on Patterson Court must remain in close contact, working together to
protect the concept of small group dining. The Patterson Court Coun-
cil is a group which can help to do this. By monitoring the financial
stability of all the houses, the PCC can head off problems before they
become chronic.

The fall of the house of ATO is a sad tale. The “fighting sheep”
have lost their battle, but the house’s unique reputation as the hangout
for Davidson’s most creative individuals — its artists, poets, jour-
nalists, musicians, and actors — will remain long after its members
disperse. If the other houses can learn from ATO’s troubles, then
perhaps some good will come of this closing. It is too bad, though,
that a lesson in survival for the other houses comes at the expense of
one of its own number.

LETTERS

Freeze Viable

To the Editor:

Though I concur with Scott Otto in
his article “No Explanation Condones
Soviet Act” that the KAL shooting is in-
excusable, he made several errors in his
final statements.

First, the faculty petition and student
referendum of last spring was a moral
statement on nuclear arms and basis for
further thought and action. It was not a
direct call for a bilateral nuclear freeze.

Furthermore, he was incorrect in his
assessment that the Nuclear Freeze relies
on a trust of the Soviets. A nuclear
freeze, as I understand it, would be suffi-
ciently verifiable such that the US would
not be in a precarious position of having
to rely on Soviet assurances.

Any agreement on nuclear arms con-
trol] that would be made between the
USSR and the US should provide for
necessary verification of the commit-
ment as well as measures covering the
accountability, or subsequent lack
thereof, for both nations.

In response to current interest and is-
sues brought up in Mr. tto’s article, the
Davidson Peace Coalition will be spon-
soring an open discussion on the’ Korean
incident and its implications this Sunday,
with the help of Professors Wruck,
Ortmayer, and Frederick. We encourage
people to come with their questions and
opinions.

Debby Williams
Davidson Peace Coalition

Amen

To the Editor:
Dear Scott Otto,
Amen, amen, and amen.
Matt Morris

Powder Kegs

To the Editor:

In an article appearing in last week’s
Davidsonian Scott Otto justly expresses
his personal outrage and the outrage of
many concerning the actions of the
Soviet Union involving the destruction
of the Korean airliner. There are no
words which can fully express the hide-

ousness and barbarity of the Soviets’ ac- ~

tions.

However, in his last paragraph he
commits an error common to detractors
of the nuclear freeze movemeat. He im-
plies that freeze proponents maintain a
naive trust of the Soviet Union and that
they “hold an accommodating view of
the Soviet Union.” The nuclear freeze
movement proposes an immediate,
mutual and verifiable freeze upon the
production, testing and deployment of
nuclear weapons. This.does not involve
blind faith or naive trust, but rather on-
site inspections and satellite surveil-
lance.

It is my belief that this latest atrocity

on the part of the Soviet Union under-
scores the urgent need of a nuclear arms
limitation agreement. Angry and
threatening rhetoric only serves to
heighten the tension and antagonism al-
ready existing. We must act now to de-
fuse the “powder kegs” of our nuclear ar-
senals.

Jerry Cook

Red Or Dead

To the Editor:

Iread with interest Scott Otto’s edito-
rial concerning the shooting down of the
Korean airliner. He made some good
points, especially when he called into
question the appropriateness of a nuclear
freeze, whether unilateral or bilateral.
The Soviets have consistently used arms
agreements to improve their position vis-
a-vis the United States, and there is no
evidence that this would be different with
the freeze. Also, considering the vast in-
volvement of KGB front groups (the
World Peace Council and its U.S. af-
filiate, the U.S. Peace Council, to name
but two) in propagandizing the freeze in
this country, and given the strong evi-
dence that the KGB isn’t doing this due
to a heartfelt desire’ to bring about the
freeze, there are other reasons to believe
that a freeze is not in our interests.

I do, however, feel that Mr. Otto is a
bit quick in criticizing Soviet citizens for
not acting out the dictum “better dead
than red.” Many Americans use this

- phrase because they are aware of both the

evil embodied in Communism/Socialism
and the much preferable alternative,
Capitalism/freedor. Sawiet citizens 22,
unaware of the atrocities committed in
their country in the name of preserving
the state, and are also unaware of alterna-
tives to their condition. The KGB is
adept at using fear and disinformation to
keep these people in line. The proper
emotion to feel for Soviet citizens is sym-
pathy. Stanislav Levchenko, a Major in
the KGB until his defection to this coun-
try several years ago, summed it up well
when he said, “The Soviet people are the
enemy of no one. The KGB is the enemy
of everyone [from John Barron’s KGB
Today: The Hidden Hand].”

Eric Hill

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from its readers. We try to print all let-
ters of gev.c.al interest, but we adhere
to certain guidelines: neatly typed,
signed letters must be in our hands by 7
p.m. Tuesday. Please include author’s
phone number and address. If you
have a compelling reason for us to
withhold your name, explain your situ-
ation to the editors. We reserve the
right to edit letters for length or clarity.

