18 Friday, March 18, 1983

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1917

Ann Meador, Editor David Resnik, Executive Editor

Welcome

Welcome to the Davidsonian. This is our first issue as the new editors
and we would like to reflect on sore of our goals before the newspaper
overwhelms us.

Budgeting restraints will prevent us from publishing more than once
a week, printing four-color deluxe photos, or sending reporters to cover
national issues. But our human resources are virtually unlimited. It is
here, that we have the most hope for progress:

We would like to improve the depth and quality of our news coverage
by providing interesting and informed reporting on the most important is-
sues that affect our campus. To achieve this goal we must train writers in
the craft of journalism.

We would also like to improve the quality of our layout, striving for a
cleaner, tighter, more professional look. In order to achieve this goal we
must train new staff members in the art of layout.

In short, our success depends on you. Every person that joins our
staff brings us closer to our goal. Our predecessor inherited only a han-
dful of staff members, who had limited experience, and built the founda-
tion upon which our efforts rest. It is now our task to continue where he
left off.

Humes Affair is Serious

The ugliness is behind us. After several months of arguing and haggl-
ing about the future of the Humanities program, we have finally initiated
a ‘spirit of genuine charity toward one another” as College President Sam
Spencer says in his letter of explanation of the humes controversy.

The Humanities staff has formed a steering committee to study the
program. It is sending out surveys to faculty, staff, and Humanities stu-
dents that ask for an appraisal of the program in terms of its strengths,
weaknesses, and areas of possibile improvement.

More than thirty percent of the students and twenty percent of the fac-
ulty participate in the program in the program at some time or another
during their tenure at Davidson. Many people consider the Humanities
program as an aspect of education that is unique to our school. Con-
sequently, any revision of the program becomes a sensitive issue. Since
so many of us care about the welfare of the Humanities program, we must
all play an active role in its evaluation.

Humanities staff tas designed the steering committee to fulfill: this
mandate, and we are particularly qualified to help them. As students we
offer a valuable perspective they must consider in any revision. We are
the ones who listen to the lectures, we are the ones who read the books,
we are the ones that discuss the issues.

But our evaluation of the program must be serious and critical; our
commitment to the process must be sincere. We have let other issues,
such as the switch to semesters and the dropping of ICES student evalua-
tion forms, go by without thorough consideration. We should not neglect
the Humanities evaluation in the same way. The students who receive
evaluation forms must put serious thought into their appraisal. Other in-
terested students should talk to their professors. We also encourage stu-
dents to discuss the issue among themselves.

A meaningful evaluation depends on our full commitment. The more
we discuss this issue, the closer.we will come to the truth. This is our
chance to help the school and to help ourselves. Let’s not blow it.

The Davidsonian

AS You KnOM, ‘Teony ts m6: Smat or
S6A WEextan ‘vee VERT VER MIRED.
WE HAD AL THE WNDESIRABLES SENT

nay CLoseD ALL COuRT OBER MATES,

NERE'S OUR UST OF Ful Ane ED !
FESTIVITIES: ALTVAAATIVE PEVERACE
PARTY tor TM ported; Beaipuh- srr

: PvE Mim Poveis PEATE,
wrrd oauhs 3 THE emp OF music ;
Tor 0 DtSte> and pOTA Re mex. RACE

Pas Prorat me 2

LETTERS

Racial Violence in South Africa

To The Editor:

For many in Charlotte, the recent at-
tack on Lesotho by South African troops
was just another headline reflecting the
violence which fills the world.

For me, the news struck closer to
home. Among the 42 people murdered
was a man [ had worked with and known
well during the three years I lived in
Lesotho. Zola Nqini was a quiet, easy-
going man who never grew angry even in
the most tense situations. He had spent
five years in South Africa’s notorious
Robben Island prison for attempting to
unionize Black workers. Other prisoners
have told me that Zola was a
peacemaker, always calming the differ-
ences among factions in the prison popu-
lation.

As arefugee in Lesotho, Zola served as
marketing officer in a project which
trained Lesotho women in hand-spinning
mohair yarn. He recently left that project
to work with the UN-sponsored refugee
program in Lesotho.

To think of South African troops burst-
ing into his house at 1 a.m. on December
9 and machine-gunning him to death
tears me apart. The South Africans called
him a “terrorist,” the international papers
more accurately called him the “repre-
sentative of the African National Con-
gress in Lesotho,” but to me he was sim-
ply a man to respect, a man who stood up
for justice, a friend.

But violence and South Africa are

synonomous. South Africa terrorizes
over 80 percent of its population every
day. South Africa’s pass laws destroy
Black families, and its homelands policy
kills Black children through malnutri-
tion. The list goes on and on.

My wife and I were married in the
mountains of Lesotho by a New Zealand
Anglican priest who lost his hand to a
South African parcel bomb. Like Zola
Ngini, Father John Osmers also stands
up for the principles of truth and justice.
Scraping the puddle of John’s blood off
the floor and literaly picking his fingers
off the wall and from the back of the
toilet tank on that July day in 1979, I fi-
gured that South Africa’s madness could
not go on for much longer.

But it has, and until the United States
and other western countries stop looking
at their multinationals’ balance sheets
and stand up for what is right, more Zola
Nginis will die. That blood is on all our
hands. Even in Charlotte, the North
Carolina National Bank is a heavy lender
to South Africa. These loans and loans
from other US banks are the key support
for South Africa’s apartheid governmen-
tal structure.

The sad part is that even NCNB offi-
cials think they are helping the situation
by assisting “progressive” firms in South
Africa. They, like the U.S. government,
are fooling themselves.

Just ask Zola Ngini.

Monroe Gilmour Jr. 68
