Volume LXXII, Number 10

The | Weekly Newspaper of of Davidson Cc College _

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, 21 January 1983

Mehta to Conduct Benefit

Chamber orchestra will
perform all-Bach program

By DIANA BOHRER ’85
and DAVID RESNIK ’85

Renowned conductor Zubin Mehta,
along with musicians Joseph Robinson
*62 and William Workman ’62, will ar-
rive at Davidson College this Sunday
for a two-day series of events surround-
ing the establishment of the Donald
Bryce Plott Scholarship Endowment.

Mehta will conduct an all-Bach pro-
gram during the Donald Plott Memorial
concert at 7:30 p.m., Monday in Love
Auditorium.

WDAYV will broadcast the concert
live.

He will also conduct a dress rehear-
sal and concert run-through at 11:00
a.m. that morning which is open to all
_ Students.

Mehta will participate in the festival
“with alacrity. There is no more worthy
cause than nurturing young talent,” he
said. “The Donald Plott Scholarship
will ensure this. And of course, Nancy
and I are excited about our first visit to
North Carolina.”

Donations of $500, $250, or $100
are requested from all who attend the
concert in order to raise funds for the
Plott Scholarship: There are no free

seats; even the families of the per-
formers have made donations.

An anonymous donor will match
student contributions of $50, $125, and
$250. One person made a gift of $1000
so that ten students may attend the per-
formance.

Robinson, the principal oboist for
the New York Philharmonic, and Work-
man, the leading baritone for the Frank-
furt Opera Company, will make solo
performances at the concert. The Orato-
rio Singers of Charlotte and a chamber
orchestra of musicians hand-picked
from the Carolinas will join them.

The program will include Bach's
Cantatas Nos. 50, 56, and 82, and the
Sinfonia for Oboe, Strings, and Conti-
nuo from the ‘Easter Oratorio.”

The Scholarship will provide funds
for students who are interested in be-
coming professional musicians but who
also want a liberal arts education.

An unexpected number of patrons
have already contributed to the scholar-
ship fund, but according to Vice Presi-
dent for Development Jack Powers, an
endowment of $400,000 will eventually
be needed to provide eight full scholar-
ships. Most of the contributions have
been at the $500 level. ”

Donald Plott

Mehta replaced Leonard Bernstein
as music director of the New York Phil-
harmonic five years ago, after 16 years
as music director of the Los Angeles
Philharmonic. He also serves as music
director of the Israel Philharmonic, and
he occasionaly guest conducts such
world-class orchestras as the Berlin
Philharmonic, the Orchéstre de Paris
and the Philadelphia Orchestra.

Robinson joined the New York
Philharmonic as principal oboist in
1978 after six seasons as principal with
the Atlanta Symphony. He is a former
faculty member of the North Carolina

(Continued on page 12)

Activities Tax Proposed

Committee recommends $15 increase

By JEFF HOLLAND ’84

Representatives of all the organiza-
™ tions which receive money from the Ac-
~ tivities Tax Council (ATC) met Monday
and agreed to submit a proposal to Dean
of Students Will Terry and College

President Sam Spencer requesting that -

_ the Trustees approve a $15 increase in
the activities tax, effective next year, to
cover the rising cost of running these or-
ganizations.

The activities tax, which students pay

‘in their yearly fees now stands at $45. It
’ was last raised five years ago from $40.
The proposal being prepared by Da-
vidsonian Editor Stewart Cauley, Quips
& Cranks Editor Jim Reese, and possi=
bly others will be submitted to Dean
Terry on Monday. Terry will submit it

to Spencer, who will decide whether to
present it to the Trustees and have it in-
cluded on the agenda at their February
meeting. According to Terry, when the
Trustees meet February 24-25 and con-
sider fees and tuition for next year, they
will include the proposal in a general
“budget package.”

The organizations requesting the in-
crease, led by student publications, cite
rising printing costs and inflation as the
principle reasons for the request.

Another reason the increase is needed
is the proposal of the Y-Student Service
Corps to be included on the list of organ-
izations which receive money from the
ATC. Y President-elect Doug Ammar
explained at the meeting Monday that
the Y needs a more stable source of in-
come. 9

At present, he says, the organization
works on a_ ‘“spend-what-we-get”
budget, since all their income is from
contributions. Ammar said that not
knowing how much money is coming in
each year makes it very difficult to
maintain continuity in their programs.

The representatives of the other or-
ganizations feel that if a new member is
added to the list of ATC supported
groups, an increase will be necessary to
keep amounts allotted to the other orga-
nizatons from decreasing.

There was general concern among the
representatives over the growing dispar-
ity between requested and _ allotted
budgets. Last year, Quips & Cranks re-
quested $6000 more than they received
and The Davidsonian took a cut in their

(Continued on page 12)
