The Davidsonian/Friday, April 15, 1983 15

Baseball Trivia Quiz

By PETER BURR

1. Everyone knows that Frank Robin-
son is the only player to win the MVP
award in the AL and NL. Now for the
trivia. Who is the only player to hit for
the cycle (single, double, triple and
homerun in one game) in both leagues?

2. Everyone knows that Bucky Dent
hit the three-run homer to beat the Red
Sox in the 1978 playoff game to deter-
mine the AL East Division champion.
Now the trivia. Who threw the pitch that
Dent hit out? For bonus credit, who also
hit homers in that game?

3. Everyone knows that Roger Maris
broke the single season homerun record
while with the Yanks and Hank Aaron
broke the career homerun record while
with the Braves. Now the trivia. What
player was present in uniform to watch
both Maris’s 61st homerun in 1961 and
Aaron’s 715th homerun in 1974?

4. Speaking of Maris, everyone
knows that his 61 homeruns ina season is
the MLB record. Now the trivia. Who

holds the NL single season record for
homers in a season?

5. Everyone knows that Ty Cobb, the
Georgia Peach, holds the record for high-
est career batting average. Now the
trivia. Who holds the MLB record for the
highest season batting average?

6. Everyone knows that Babe Ruth
and Ted Williams both walked over 150
times in one season. Now the trivia.
There is only one other player in MLB
history to walk over 150 times in a sea-
son. Who is he?

7. Everyone knows that Don Larsen
is the only man to throw a perfect game in
World Series play. Now the trivia. Who
was the Yankee pitcher who pitched 8 2/
3 innings of no-hit ball in game four of
the 1947 World Series before giving up a
double in the ninth and losing the game
2-1?

8. Everyone knows that Cy Young
has the most career wins in MLB. Now
the trivia. Who has won the most MLB
games in the three seasons played in the
decade of the 1980s?

From the Locker Room: Croquet

Answers:
BulUMO IV “€

uosyoer 2133

-Oy {Hyswiase x [sey ‘ZIUO] Syl “Z
uos}e A Gog °|

‘09 ‘UOIIBD 9AIIg °g
suaaog (I1'@) PAOL */
SOX SIPPA “9

p7p’ ‘Aqswioy J930y *¢
"QS “UOSTIAA YUBH “p

Men’s Tennis Wins Four

By TIM MCGAUGHEY

The Davidson men’s tennis team
streaked to four victories this week to im-
prove its record to 12-6 overall and 2-1 in
the Southern Conference.

The Cats defeated VMI 8-1 Saturday.
The win strengthened Davidson’s posi-
tion in conference tournament seedings.
The weather forced several changes in
the conference schedule, and cancelled
matches will be made up.

Davidson also won the Mecklenburg
County championship this week. Con-
secutive road victories over Johnson C.
Smith University (7-2) and University of
North Carolina at Charlotte (UNCC) (5-
4) clinched the title. Before playing

UNCC Tennis. Coach Jeff Frank knew
that the team would have a tough time,
and sure enough, the team won only two
of six singles matches. The team pushed
hard for a comeback, winning all three
doubles matches to eke out a close vic-
tory.

The Cats played their third match in
as many days on Wednesday, downing
Pfieffer College 7-2.

These victories come at a crucial part
of the season. Frank has stressed the “im-
portance of momentum and confidence
for the young team going into the end of
the season.” Southern Conference play
intensifies in the next week and culmi-
nates in the tournament.

By STEVE SOUD

The game of games, the créme de la créme of sport is
storming across the nation with the sound and fury of
the New Jersey Generals. It’s not the USFL, not lac-
rosse, not even soccer.. Rather, it’s croquet.

Croquet, once reserved for 70-year-old retirees,
has recently undergone a revival rivalling the Great
Awakening. In 1976, for instance, when the U.S.
Croquet Association was founded, one could have
counted its member clubs on one hand. Just five years
later, it would have taken all the hands and toes of two
people. One must not assume, however, that croquet
history begins in 1976. In the roaring ’20s the city of
Boston banned the game because of its association
with drunkenness and gambling. Pinehurst, North
Carolina, home of the World Golf Hall of Fame,
claims to have been a croquet mecca before it built its
first golf course. “Our regulation size lawn is always
ready for play,” a Pinehurst advertisement boasts.
“We're also planning to open three new lawns which
will soon make Pinehurst the major croquet tourna-
ment facility in the country.”

All boasting — and joking — aside, croquet is
serious business among its followers. “The game is
like golf because you are stroking a ball on a lawn,”

explains Barry Fitzpatrick, a croquet player from
Rancho Santa Fe, California. “It’s like billiards be-
cause of the way you can line up your ball and hit it
off another ball, and like chess because you plan your
moves four or five wickets ahead.” Like a golfer, the
great croquet player arduously practices for a steady
stroke. Bad to the bone croquet folk master a variety
of trick shots: ricochet shots, skip shots, curve balls,
and other stupendous feats with just one stroke of the
mallet.

And who, pray tell, is crazy enough to work hard
enough at croquet to be able to curve a shot around
one ball to hit another behind it? Consider the United
States Croquet Hall of Fame. Few people know that
Harpo Marx was great at something other than com-
edy. Writer George S. Kaufman and Pulitzer Prize
winner Herbert Bayard “Ottie” Swope, Jr. are Hall of
Famers as well. Sam Goldwyn (of MGM fame) and
Darryl! “Terrible Tempered Mr. Bang” Zanuck even
built huge playing fields — complete with sand traps
and water hazards — in their buck yards. One of the
Hall of Fame’s greatest, George “Mr. A” Abbott,
quite unfortunately gave up croquet at the lure of all-
day Florida golf. a

One of the most recent inductees, Frenchman

Louis Jourdan, sparks new flare to the age-old pas-
time. The U.S. Croquet Gazette writes, “The most

‘impressive part of Jourdan’s game, in addition to his

smooth stroke, his patient attack, lies in psyching out
an opponent. This he does by lighting a cigarette be-
fore his opening shot, inhaling deeply, placing it on

- the ground next to the stake and then proceeding to

conquer all nine wickets, unhindered whether he has
one, two, or three balls off which to play. He be-
comes a rover in time to pick up the same cigarette,
take his second drag, and with a mere trace of a gra-
cious (or is it supercilious?) smile, says: ‘Your shot’
to the unhinged opposition.”

But croquet isn’t just for old fogies anymore. Not
many people witnessed the 1980 Harvard-Yale
croquet match, the first intercollegiate match ever.
They played it the day before the big football game
between the two schools. “That will be anticlimactic”
one Harvard student said. Yale won by three points in
double overtime. “This will go down in the annals,” a
USCA member quoth. After that fate‘ul match teams
sprouted up across the Northeast: Vassar, Mt.
Holyoke, Brandeis, Princeton, etc.

_ Anyone in the know realizes croquet is the com-
ing rage. I suggest Davidson get on the bandwagon.

ACTIVE WEAR

Knit tops by Izod, Holbrook,
Munsingwear, Loafers Glory,
and Levi. Including all-cotton.

Tennis Shorts, Active Shorts

by Munsingwear, Woolrich,
Jantzen, Levi, and Berle

Mooresville—Only 6 Miles North

For some GOOD OL’

DELICIOUS HOT CHOWDERS & ICE COLD BEER

“Old Cornelius
Fish Market

our Favorite Spot

FASHIONED
SEAFOOD & BREW

. Plus Fresh Steamed...

John Mack & Son

Store Hours: 9 a.m. til 5:30 p.m., Mon thru Sat

i] Tues. night: 25¢ draft night

Le ee ~~“. “a “ab.

-SHRIMP-CLAMS-OYSTERS:
Served with fresh French Bread

Ny Wed. night: Chowder & gumbo night—$1.00/bow! Fri. night: Oyster night—$2.75

ae ee ee

Thurs. night: Clam night

