8 Friday, October 14, 1983/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Davidson Thrashes Guilford In First Season Win

By SCOTT HUIE

It may not have been the World
Series or even the Super Bowl. It doesn’t
even rank up there with last year’s bas-
ketball victory over Notre Dame, or the
year before when the footballers upset
Boston University.

Let’s just call it the next best thing to
Momma’s homemade meatloaf.

Ah! The sweetness of victory, some-
thing which in four outings this year has
escaped the clutches of the Wildcat grid-
ders. Who cares the win was a 33-17
thrashing of some podunk NAIA school
called Guilford. Heck, a victory over
Queens College would have been a big
boost at this stage of the game.

Tell us about it, Wildcats.

Coach Farrell: “Psychologically, it
was important for us to break the ice and
get a win against Guilford. I have no
complaints. We played well. Now it’s
time to get down to business.”

Reserve defensive end Marcus Allen:
“We've finally accomplished what we
set out to do at the beginning of training
camp, and that’s to play winning foot-
ball.

Reserve defensive tackle Ben Pope:
“With that first win, things start to fall in
place and you all of a sudden get a whole
better outlook on life. The atmosphere at
practice is more jovial, you can concen-
trate on your studies better, and by golly,
the women even talk to you.”

Well, all right!

The first three times they touched the
football the Wildcats scored, twice
thanks to Guilford turnovers. The first
was a 12-yard touchdown pass from
quarterback Keith Martin to sure-handed
Todd Hermetz. That drive was set up by
a fumble recovery by Elmer Dyke at the
Guilford 24.

Linebacker Carl Bynum stopped
Guilford on its first possession with an
interception at the Davidson 35. Thirteen
plays later, fullback Horace Manor
scored on a 5-yard run.

Davidson’s final touchdown of the
half came on another scoring run by
Manor, this time from three yards out.

Early in the second half the Quakers
cut the deficit by half to 20-10. But the
Wildcats showed they were not quite
ready to hang up their cleats just yet.

Each time Guilford made a run at them,
Davidson responded. Thwarting a com-
eback, the Cats drove 51 yards on the
next series, capped by a 2-yard TD
plunge by fullback Carl Tolbert.

Guilford scored late in the third quar-
ter cutting the lead to 26-17. But once
again Davidson responded, scoring late
in the game on an 11-yard burst by run-
ningback Bob Miller.

Said Farrell, “It’s a tribute to the team
for maintaining that lead when Guilford
made a surge. We could have very easily
given up, especially since we’ ve taken a
lot of licks this year.”

Horace Manor led a revitalized rush-
ing attack which produced 227 yards of
55 carries. The star fullback ran for 79
yards on 17 carries, and his backup Tol-
bert gained 60 yards on eight carries.

“Our runningbacks played super,”
said Farrell, “but you have to credit the
offensive line for a great job. We even
gave the game ball to guard Larry
Spears, and that’s the first time I’ve seen
that happen.”

Defensively, Bynum and _ safety
Stockton Whitten dominated with 11

tackles each. Also, Jerry Grubba, no
longer sporting his devilish mohawk, got
in on nine tackles to up his season total to
a team high 44.

Tomorrow, the Cats run into a wall at
Richardson Field known as the South
Carolina State Bulldogs, 5-1. Up until
two weeks ago when they lost to Alcorn
State they were ranked number | in the
nation in IAA. Now they are number 7.
In last year’s game Davidson fell 24-7 in
perhaps their best performance of ’82.

The Dogs are explosive in every
phase of the game. Defensively, they
have yielded only 252 yards a game. Of-
fensively, their rushing attack alone pro-
duces 262 yards a game.

“Their names may change each
year,” said Farrell, “but they’re always
big and fast and downright tough. Heck,
they lost their starting tackle last week,
and his substitute is only 6’8” and weighs
305 pounds.”

With that kind of beef, the Cats better
look out.

Huie’s Prediction:
SC State 34
Davidson 14

Soccer Team Turns Hat Trick To Reach 9-1-1

Faces Powerhouse Marshall Tom

By BOYD BLACKBURN

Davidson soccer swept three games
this week in preparation for the “Big
Game” tomorrow against Marshall. Mar-
shall is 2-0 in conference play and proba-
bly the only team that stands in the way
of: the ‘Wildcats’ bid for a conference
championship.

On Saturday, a large crowd wel-
comed Davidson home after three weeks
of road games. The soccer team re-
sponded with a 6-0 blowout of Warren
Wilson. Last year the teams had played
to a 2-2 tie.

After ten minutes of play and two
Davidson goals, it was obvious the only
question this year would be whether
Warren Wilson could keep the score in
single digits.

The Wildcats attack was most
threatening whenever goalie Jim Kelly
booted one of his 70-yard monster punts.
Warren Wilson defenders stubbornly
pulled up to midfield before each kick.
This led to a footrace with Davidson for-
wards which resulted in several shots on
goal and clear kicks. Dave Flowers,
Peter Burr, Sean Austin, and Mike
Mauzé all scored ‘goals in the first half.

With the commanding 4-0 lead,
Coach Charlie Slagle played an entire
second string unit for most of the second
half, but Warren Wilson was still out-
_ manned. — .

Forwards Tony Cabrales and Sean
Goudie both scored goals. Goudie’s goal
was the first of his college career and the
crowd loved it.

Mmorow

Davidson player duels for the ball
UT-C Win

On Sunday Davidson travelled to
Knoxville and beat the University of
Tennessee 2-1.

After trailing 1-0 at halftime, the
Wildcats pulled together and took it to
the Volunteers. Slagle said, ‘““We’re not
the kind of team that can stand around
and mystify opponents with ball control.

Carroll Overton

Our game is hard and aggressive —
going after every loose ball.” That’s just
what they did.

The first goal came when Flowers
kicked a dangerous cross into the box.
The Tennessee sweeper tried to clear it
but hit it off the side of his foot and into
his own net. The game winner came from
Cabrales. As their keeper raced towards
a high-bouncing ball, Tony chipped it
softly over his head and into the net.
Slagle was pleased with the victory. “I'll
always take a win on the road,” he said.

Pfeiffer Loses

Yesterday Davidson finished the
sweep and extended their record to 9-1-1
with a 1-0 win over Pfeiffer.

The lone goal came on a set play mid-
way through the first half. Steve Stith
pushed off to Mike Lufkin to get around
the wall and Lufkin chipped it to right
post. Flowers came out of nowhere and

“in going for the ball took out the keeper.

The ball popped in front of the net and
Bryan Shockley slammed it home.

If violence is your bag, you shouldn’t
have missed this one. Yellow and red
cards were flying all over the place in the
second half. Two players were thrown
out and more could have been, but
Davidson managed to keep its cool and

_ preserved the one goal lead.

The Marshall game is at home tomor-
row at 11:30. It will be the big test to see
if Davidson is worthy of its 9-1-1 record
and number 9 ranking in the South. If
they succeed, the conference should be
theirs.
