a)

Friday, May 6, 1983 / The Davidsonian

NEWs SUMMARY——

FEC, PAC to Discuss Student Evaluation

The SGA Faculty Evaluations Committee will meet today to discuss plans for
reviving the evaluation process. Due to disagreements between the faculty and
the administration, there will probably be no student evaluation this term, ac-
cording to FEC chairman Jon Hain.

The FEC consists of Hain, Doug Ammar, Bob McCullen, Edward Hay, Sara
Beasley, Ester Kim, John Laughlin, and Pete Skillern.

The SGA considered sponsoring its own evaluation, but this option is now
doubtful, said Hain. Hain said that there will definitely be some kind of evalua-
tion next fall.

The Faculty Professional Affairs Committee will meet with Vice-president for
Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann this Mon-
day afternoon. PAC chairman and Religion professor Alexander McKelway
said he ‘is willing to compromise and would like to solve the student evaluation
problem as soon as possible.

“We'd like to know where he is at and what his suggestion would be,” said
McKelway.

Communiqué To Be Published Soon

The Communiqué, an entirely freshman-produced publication, is scheduled
to come out May 13.

Produced by a six-member staff, the four-page magazine will include poems
and several articles.

John Marks and Todd Wiebusch founded the Communiqué last year. Editor
Paul Kowert said he has had difficulty findifg people to write this year.

Though Kowert would like to keep the magazine running, he said that this is
probably the publication’s last year.

Hobart Park To Come Out Monday

The student literary publication, Hobart Park, will will be published this
Monday. Copies will be distributed door-to-door as long as they last and some
will be available in the library.

The publication will contain short poetry, two long poems, three short
stories but no artwork. The Fall issue of Hobart Park was 80 pages long, but fi-
nancial difficulties have limited the Spring issue to 64 pages.

Co-editor Scot Myers said that high-quality material overwhelmed the publi-
cation for this issue. He thought almost everything he received was printable,
but only 20 percent of the submissions will be printed, he said. He is “real
pleased” with the new issue but regrets that more money was not available.

Suzanne Dickey and Myers edited Hobart Park. Dennis Swearengin, Darryl
Cooper, and Jeff Danese served as readers. The Briarpatch Press will print and
bind the magazine.

Spencer Calls For Objective Study of Higher Education
College President Samuel Spencer called for an objective study of all higher
education in North Carolina to allow the state to plan for the future in his mes-
sage to the Board of Visitors last Friday.
Spencer said the state must resolve the question of how to fashion policy to
achieve the highest quality education at the lowest cost.

“Given the needs of the future, we may have too many institutions of higher
education in North Carolina, both public and private,” Spencer said, citing a 25-
percent decline in the number of high school graduates in the state from now
until 1994. In spite of that, Spencer said, the state’s projections call for a growth
of 1,000 new students in the university system each year. ,

“Until 1958, roughly 50 percent of all North Carolina’s college students at-
tended private institutions,” Spencer said. “That figure is now about 25 percent,
and some private colleges feel threatened.”

Once a private institution goes under, he noted, the state has to take over its
students at a higher cost to taxpayers. He said we must recognize that we have a
system which consists of both public and private institutions, and we must keep
the welfare of both in mind as we plan for the future.

Spencer told the visitors that the basic federal priority, and one which he
would support strongly, should be student aid.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the schoo! year by the students of Davidson College.

Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 882-

2000 ext. 148 end 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost

$": 2 per veer. Advertising rates availeble on request. Second class postage paid at Davideon, North
roline 28036.

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Thurston Hatcher, Features Editor
Barry Elledge, Opinions Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Anderson Scott, Photography Editor
Jeffrey Danese, Advertising Manager

Jeff Mann, Associate Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

. a -

Spencer said the student aid program should not assume that everyone
should attend college. Not everyone is destined for college, he said, “but those
who are qualified should not be denied because of a lack of funds.”

Larry Dagenhart, secretary of the Davidson College Board of Trustees, gave
an account of the current status of state support to private colleges.

“There’s a struggle going on right now in the North Carolina legislature be-
tween the university and the independent colleges regarding the tuition grant
program in North Carolina,” Dagenhart said.

“North Carolina has a strong university position. We have 16 campuses of
our public university, and 58 community colleges. We also have a stong and,
some people say, too abundant private college system with 30 senior and eight
two-year colleges.” .

Some 70 members of the Board of Visitors, a group of prominent business
and community leaders who advise the College, took part in the annual day-long
meeting, which included discussions of faculty recruitment and the role of mar-
keting in higher education.

Educators Fear More Cuts In Academic Services

(CPS)—The halting economic “recovery” isn’t cheering up too many col-
lege officials, who now worry that even a faster approach of prosperity may not
prevent a new, even deeper round of cuts in academic programs and student ser-
vices for the next school year.

“It’s like running full speed ahead just to stay in one place,” says Ken Kirk-
land, fiscal affairs director of the National Conference of State Legislatures.

“Thirty-nine out of 50 states have already cut their (higher education)
budgets for this year,” he reports, “and there’s certainly no relief in sight for
higher education.”

Over the last year, bad business and unemployment have cut the amount af
money states have collected in taxes. With less money to spread around, most of
those 39 states have forced public institutions — including their colleges — to
cut their own budgets and halt spending.

To cut, colleges have fired teachers, leaving students with fewer, more
crowded class sections from which to choose on many campuses. In some cases,
whole academic departments have been abolished.

All kinds of student services — from faculty evaluations to free phones in
dorms to campus escort services — have also been axed at many schools.

Such efforts won’t unfairly punish “real hardship cases,” Powell says, “as
long as they keép in touch with the relevant agency and work out some kind of
deferment plan.”

Panel Wants Aid Cut For Students With Bad Grades

(CPS)—The government will'soon force colleges to strip students with bad
grades of their federal financial aid, at least if a congressional advisory commit-
tee gets its way.

The National Commission on Student Financial Assistance, created three
years ago to draw up student aid bills for Congress, last week recommended a
series of new academic rules that colleges would have to impose on aid reci-
pients.

Colleges, the commission said, often don’t take aid away from students who
don’t make “satisfactory academic progress” toward their degrees because of
bad grades.

“Our records seem to point out that the standards are not monitored very
closely ,” says commission spokeswoman Susan Turner.

The proposed new rules are “an attempt to get [schools] to make it clear to
students what the standards are,” adds Tom Wolanin, an aide to commission
member Rep. William Ford (D-MI).

In January, 1982, the Government Accounting Office estimated that as
many as 45 percent of the nation’s college aid offices may not monitor aid reci-
pients’ grades at all.

Among the 5,800 transcripts the GAO surveyed in 1982, it found some stu-
dents with grade point averages as low as .11 still getting aid.

To assure that grade standards are observed, the commission wants Con-
gress to require schools to publish minimum course, attendence, and grade re-
quirements for federal financial aid. ~

News Staff: Kelly Sundberg, Assistant News Editor; Diana Bohrer, Roxanna Guilford,
Mary Beth Harding, Paulette Kurani, Jeff Holland, John Ruppenthal, Mike Tantilio
Features Staff: Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Jon Glance, Bob Finch,
John Krotchko, Eric Long, Kirsten McDonald, John Marks, Matt Morris, Tracy
Thompson

Sports Staff: Bobby Barnes, Scott Huie, Kara Gilmore, Garry Sullivan

Photography Staff: Peggy Pierotti, Assistant Photography Editor; Neil Cooksey,
Angelique Foster, Ann Hunter

Business Staff: David McCurry, Kurt Henjes, William White

Production Staff: Rob Hollenbeck, Jim Morgan

