Friday, October 28, 1983/The Davidsonian 13

~ OPINIO

The Soviet Union’s Global Plan

Thomas Vaccaro

Since the early 1960’s the Soviet Union has pursued
a course in foreign policy which has relied on the use of
overt threats and organized terrorism to achieve the ulti-
mate goal of communism: one socialist state covering
the entire globe.

In 1962 the Soviets attempted to place nuclear mis-
siles in Cuba. The missiles were intended to hit targets
deep within the borders of the United States. When
American reconnaissance planes sighted what were
clearly Soviet missile installations in the Cuban jungle,
the Soviet Union’s integrity was immediately put on the
line. Nikita Khruschev, then leader of the Soviet Union,
defended the act by saying that “Everything showed that
the United States was preparing to carry out an attack on
the Cuban republic using its own armed forces. We sta-
tioned rockets on Cuba precisely for the defense of the
Cuban revolution and not for an attack on the United
States.”

Khruschev’s statement, printed in U.S. News and
World Report, Dec., 1962, has been proven a lie. Any
mobilization of American forces for an invasion of Cuba
would have been large enough so as to be noticed by the
American public as well as the rest of the world. If sucha
threat had existed, the Soviets would have first attemp-
ted to solve the crisis through the United Nations: arming
Cuba would have been an expensive way to solve the
problem. Even more doubt is brought to Khruschev’s ar-
gument by an unlikely source, Ernesto Guevara, then the
top aide in Fidel Castro’s Cuban regime. He revealed
that “If the rockets had remained, we would have used
all of them and directed them against the very heart of the
United States, including New York” (this from the same
U.S. News & World Report story).

It is known that the present revolution in Central
America is not an internal struggle. The Soviet Union is

the main force behind the entire insurgency. American
reconnaissance photots have revealed two permanent,

‘Soviet-style bases in Nicaragua to which arms and

supplies are sent from Cuba. The bases are equipped
with Soviet fighter jets which will be used to aid rebels in
neighboring republics. Nicaraguans are being trained in
Bulgaria to fly the jets. From the Nicaragua bases Soviet
arms and supplies are flown to El Salvador where they
are air-dropped to Marxist insurgents. I believe that the
Soviets plan to strengthen Nicaragua to a point where it
can be used to export Marxism to the rest of the region.
Josef Stalin, on whose theories Russian foreign policy is
based, believed, during the infancy of communist Rus-

lutions can be started. In Moscow two institutes train ter-
rorists: The Lenin Institute and the Patrice Lumumba
People’s Friendship University.

The IRA receives arms from the Soviets through
Libya and Czechoslovakia. The PLO is trained at Soviet
supported camps in Algeria, South Yemen, and Syria.
The PLO was invited to open office in Moscow in 1974.
According to Brain Crozier, an analyst of foreign af-
fairs, “without Soviet arms, money, training and clan-
destine support, terrorism would instantly become a
manageable proposition.”

I believe that the reason for the Soviet’s terror-
oriented foreign policy is to fulfil? their goal of world-

I believe that the Soviets are forming a miniature Stalinist

Russia out of Nicaragua.

It will be used as a base to

spread communism to the rest of Central America.

sia, that Russia should be strengthened to a point where
it was a strong socialist state from there Marxism could
be exported to the rest of the world.

I believe that the Soviets are forming a.miniature
Stalinist Russia out of Nicaragua. It will be used as a
base to spread communism to the rest of Central Ameri-
ca.

The Soviets are behind much of the organized ter-
rorism in the world today. They educate and fund many
terrorist organizations, including the PLO and IRA. The
Soviets train terrorists in Eastern Europe and the Middle
East. The terrorists do not have to be communist-af-
filiated, they must only cause chaos — from which revo-

wide communism. Writes Karl Marx: “The communists
disdain to conceal their views and aims. They openly de-
clare that their ends can be attained only by the forcible
overthrow of all existing social conditions.”

It is simply not fair that the innocent people of the
world have to live in a world of terror which com-
munists, to a large extent, propel. Soviet menacing in
Central America, the arming of Syria, and the shooting
down of a Korean airliner are only the latest examples of
the Soviet Union’s drive of world-wide terror.

Vaccaro is a freshman from Falmouth, Massachusettes.

An American In London

Thurston Hatcher

Today I became a registered alien, something British
law required of me. Some thanks | get for visiting their
country: first I get classified as an alien, and then I have
to give them twenty-five pounds to make it official.

I can deal with being an alien. It’s being American
that will give me problems.

Last week I wandered into a grimy café in Coventry,
and before I had a chance to order a beefburger and tea
from the scowling fat man behind the counter, a drun-
Kard started’yelling across the room:at me:and my-travsl-
ling companion. ~ ;

“You’re Americans, aren’t you?” he asked. We con-
fessed that we were. “I thought so,” he said. “I can tell an
American by the way he walks, by the way he talks, by
the way he smells.” I never knew it was so easy. While
he rambled about our Satan cowboy in Washington and
the merits of communism, I nibbled on my nasty beef-
burger and yearned to be eating something else, some-
where else. :

It isn’t difficult to understand such negative feelings,
even if it is hard to comprehend such rudeness from any-

one. The. man was obviously quite bitter,"gnd he proba-
-bly hated America for lack of something else to hate. *

The problem is that anti-American sentiment clearly
exists for reasons ranging from nuclear arms policies to
New York tourists.

It is true that many Americans come here pretending
that England is merely an extension of the -United
States—another Disneyland, if you will. We Americans
assume that because the language is the same, so must be
the culture. For that reason we do not prepare to change
our own behavior whén we are-here.

This is a different place, and I am only starting now

to learn just how different. Of course, certain word
usage differs. Someone said that “Americans and the
British have everything in common/except the lan-
guage.” If you’ve spoken to a Rusk Scholar or any other
Briton, you learn quickly that the shagging they do over
here is rarely done out on a dance floor.

Aside from the language, values and needs vary sig-
nificantly. The family with whom | stayed for a week is a
comfortable middle-class family. Unlike an American
family of the same class, they have no clothes-dryer or
dishwasher, nor do they have any desire to own either. It
is not a question of expense; rather, it is one of priorities.

I was surprised that a family of four gets by with just
one upstairs bathroom. My English hosts were
thoroughly disgusted that my family considers three
‘bathrooms quite nice. It’s all what you're used to. |

* > If you are not familiar with a particular custom or
way of life, you cannot try to change it to suit your
needs. Instead you must adapt. I am in their country now
so I will play by their rules.

So says the American with the Big Mac on his
breath.

Hatcher is an English major from Miami, FL spending
his junior year at London University.
