«Wain jengh oat here, you! ve ving potent, success-

- fl wriess tke ws. Every little tawdry paper wants you
"for just another news quickie; every editor, »

‘stance), just wants more cheap, easy copy. One quick
bang on the typewriter and its all over.

Any subject will do, no matter now ugly, dull or”

trite. Consider the veritable safari of choices this tab-
loid offerred us. We were forced to decline what prom-
ised to be a captivating interview with Charlie Sum-
mers on his subversive political acts on campus partic-
ularly his latest pamphlet, “How to Avoid Nuclear
Frostbite in the Coming Freeze”) as well as a dazzling
opportunity to quiz the President of Greenpeace on the
plight of the unborn gay whales. Our third option
seemed the most breathtaking and gutwrenching—the
Davidsonian offerred to document our trek into the
wilds of Mooresville’s Whataburger.

It was a short journey. Our trustworthy native guide,
Laura, drove us. Unerringly through the dark North
Carolina tundra, following the tracks her ancesters had
made years ago. We arrived suddenly at this alluring,
tastefully orchestrated pool of mood lighting. What
mood, we can’t say, but it reminded us of Uncle Fester
sticking two 60-watt bulbs up his nose.

Since we wefe just cruising for some fast copy in this
joint, and were ambivalent about our position; we
whipped into the first available slot. Fortune was on
our side. So was the menu. It didn’t ook fortunate, but
can you really miss if you order a “Witch Doctor”?

foe Mh Se
oo

Spe 6 am.

a Sac ree zy ha

eR . 2 ote
CO Leet EE

roonth: air dri ison inviin

Yes, you can. We inquired over our primitive, bat-
tered “Servus-Fone” exactly what the Witch Doctor
was said to cure. The woman housed in our box an-
swered “Thirst, okay?” She then described the bever-
age, which, as it turns out, is a permanent cure. It is
medley of all the sour notes in the soft drink orchestra,
beginnig with a saccharine prelude of TAB; followed
by the swelling interplay of Sprite and Sundrop, united
by a leit-motif of Coke; all climaxing with a resounding
splash of lemons and pickles. (There is an optional on-
ion encore)

Feeling that perhaps thirst wasn’t such a bad conept
after all, we decided to inquire into the condition of
their less threatening delights. Wondering about the
conceptual duality teasingly suggested by the differ-
ence between a “Whataburger” and a “Whataham-
burger,” we innocently asked “What’s a Whata-
burger?” Truth, no matter how ugly, will out. Box
woman had no chance to answer before an apostate of
the kitchen fires replied: ““Whataburger’s got lettuceto-
matoonionmustard, and Whathamburger’s’ got mus-
tardslawchile-onions.”

“Oh,” we heartily replied, deciding that perhaps
neither was the combination for us. The Whatasalis-
bury proved less complex, if more enigmatic. “I don’t
know what kind of meat it is,” said another box lady.
“It’s breaded veal,” said the apostate. “It’s goat meat,”
said a suddenly enthused customer nearby. “Oh,” we
said, deciding that both hunger and thirst were rather

by Anderson Scott ‘84

intriguing concepts, not to be discarded so lightly.
Feeling a tad overwhelmed at all this epiphal revela-
tion, we decided to rest. Fortunately, there were on the
premises accomodating facilities, restrooms. Which
were perhaps more convenient than, say, rest homes,
but more aptly termed rest booths. Not restful. Rather
disturbing.

As if the food weren’t enough to satiate anypne’s ap-
petite, the men’s restroom (as opposed to rather austere
women’s restroom) offerred a veritable warehouse of
intriguing merchandise, most designed to “arouse her
animal pasions.” Whose, we don’t know. Perhaps it
should read “her animal’s passions”; from the diagram
this certainly looked to be a possibility. Or if indeed
“her animal passions” is correct, what animal? Who
wants a woman who thinks she’s a passionate lem-
ming? Perhaps one determines which animal passion is
unleashed by choosing from among “five exotic colors:
blue, red, yellow, black, and fuché with magenta rac-
ing stripes.” We don’t know, but Marlon Perkins has
probably put in many hard hours finding out.

Obviously, the restrooms were less than restful. In
fact, so disturbed were we that we rushed past the
clientele lounging comfortably in their various bucket
seats, and made our way unsteadily back to our faithful
yet smug guide, Laura. We will discuss no more the
Whataburger. No sense beating, or eating, a dead goat.
We’d been used, wrung out like two dishtowels and
cast aside our journalistic integrity violated. Again.

DAVIDSON GOES UPTOWN

VAIL COMMONS
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15

BE THERE!

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983 13
