To the editor:

Boy, are our faces red! When we
wrote that letter last week protesting the
Bobby Sands sign at the Notre Dame
basketball game, we had completely
forgotten that we were the ones who
made the sign. Oh, faux pas!

Of course, if we had only remem-
bered that it was our sign, we never
would have protested. However, since
we did, we figure that we owe ourselves
an apology. Hence, let it be known that
we most humbly apologize for our de-
filement of the greatest man who ever
lived (and died by hunger strike).

As asymbol of our profound respect
and deep admiration for this noble man,
we would like to nominate him pos-
thumously for the office of honorary
food service director at the Vail Com-
mons.

While the idea of mixing political
comment and athletic competition may
be unpalatable to some, it certainly pro-
vides food for thought. Callousness
such as was found in this sign may be
hard to stomach, but one must admit
that the Davidson student body is starv-
ing for controversial political analysis.

In conclusion, we admit that the
sign may have been in bad taste. But
then again, Bobby wouldn’t know much

about taste, would he?

Hal Elliott ’85
Carl Elliott ’83
Gray Hampton ’83
Ed Whitesides ’83

To the Editor:

Are you aware of the fact that every
time the SAEs have a party, drunk peo-
ple come over and urinate in our win-
dow. wells? Last night was no excep-
tion, but one of them had the ingenuity
to break a window first, so urine would
go onto our carpet. Most of us think it’s
an ego trip for them. What do you think?

[28 ATO members]

To the Editor:

A most interesting thing happened
to me.this past weekend. I was having a
good time with some friends at a school
near here when I met a quite beautiful
and interesting young lady. She was a
very voracious partier, though.

We talked awhile and J just kept on
enjoying being around such a super per-
son. She was quite an individual. Just
before I was about to leave, I went over
to her and was going to ask her out.
Then I felt a tapping on my shoulder and
a voice saying, “Sorry Dave, but she
isn’t up to Davidson’s standards. She is
a little too loud.”

I’m still trying to figure out how he
knew where I was.

David Carpenter ’84

To the Editors:

I am a Davidson College student
presently serving his Junior Year at
Montpellier, France. I feel it’s my duty

~to report an honor code violation which

has occurred even here, at Davidson’s
Mediterranean guardhouse of virtue,
Montpellier, and I believe the crime is
traceable to a member of the greater
metropolitan Davidson Community.

I was sitting in my bathroom think-
ing great thoughts, when my eye lighted
upon a curious article of graffitti evei-
dently left by an American student inf the
past. The quip read, “Eschew Obfusca-
tion,” and was signed “GCL.” Being a
Mark Twain expert, I immediately rec-
ognized the diminutive clause as a
warped copy of work by The Man Him-
self, Samuel Langhorne Clemmens.

In an essay titled “The Literary Of-
fences of James Fenimore Cooper,”
Twain lists rules for good writing, one
of which is “eschew surplurage.” I be-
lieve this axiom is the inspiration for
GCL’s pirated musing which appears on
my bathroom wall. GCL’s true identity
is a mystery to me, but I have managed
to trace down the name of one of his ac-
complices (if not the criminal himself):
Mr. John Stanback. Mr. Stanback inha-
bited this apartment himself last year
while he conducted his JYA Frolic, and
I surmise that he frequented this very
bathroom where plagerism stains the
wall. He cannot be ignorant of the
scrawl which undoubtedly presented it-
self to his eyes so many times. He may
not be the perpetrator himself, but he
harbors the fact in his guilty heart, and is
therefore in violation of the HONOR
CODE.

I trust you will apprehend and duly
punish the villain.

In the meantime, I have inscribed
Mr. Twain’s correct maxim on the wall
with appropriate notation.

Yours in Duty

Pledged,
Lindsey B. Durway
Alpha Number 21564500

To the Editor:

I would like to thank Sherburne
Laughlin, the Women’s Concerns Com-
mittee, and all the people who worked
hard to bring Celebrate Women Week to
the Davidson campus. Having never felt
very well-informed about women's
issues, I decided that I would take ad-
vantage of the educational opportunities
afforded me in order to learn something.

I was not disappointed. I was en-
lightened, surprised, troubled, enter-
tained, and informed, but most of all, I
was inspired. I was inspired to take
risks, to be honest in my feelings and ac-
tions, to step out on a limb when neces-
sary, and to feel good about who I am.
Thank you for a very meaningful week.

Pam Strader ‘85

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes let-
ters from our readers. We try to print
all letters that are of general interest,
but we adhere to these four guide-
lines:

1. We require that letters be in our
hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.

2. We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3. We require that letters be
signed and include the author’s phone
number and address. If you have a
compelling reason for us to withhold
your.name, explain your situation to
the editor, Stewart Cauley.

4. We reserve the right not to print
letters that (a) function as advertise-

| ments; (b) contain innuendo, off-co-

lor slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent
a viewpoint very similar to that ex-
pressed in many other letters printed
on the same topic. We also reserve the
right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any
way endorse the opinions expressed
in the letters we print.

THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Post OFFICE BOx 218, DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036

Subscriptions cost 12. per year within the United States and its possessions;
16. per year elsewhere in North America; 22'. in Europe (30 air-speeded).

Rates for the Far East and Oceania upon request.

lek emaiett inet Ade

SONIAN/21 January 1983
