8 Friday, March 18, 1983

Presidency

Juniors Ester Kim, Hunter Monroe,
and Burt Taylor are running for the office
of SGA president.

“The Davidsonian asked them these
questions and asked for written re-
sponses:

1. What is your experience?

2. What are your goals for the SGA?

3. What do you consider to be the role

of the SGA?

The slightly edited responses follow:

Ester Kim

1. This year alone | have served as
president of the junior class, chairman of
the SGA Admissions Weekend, member
of the Student Conduct Council, chair-
man of the Student Admissions Team
(SAT), member of the Trustee Contact
Committee, member of the Senate Exec-

The Davidsonian

Kim, Monroe, and Taylor Contend for SGA

utive Committee. and chairman of the
Senate Admissions Committee. This
gives me the leadership experience I
need to serve as an effective president.
However, the SGA president also needs
to understand and be familiar with every
aspect of Davidson. My work with the
SGA Admissions Weekend provides me
with this understanding and familiarity.
During a span of two days approximately
120 high school seniors willyisit David-
son. During their stay, I and my commit-
tee must expose them to as much of
Davidson as possible. This includes
housing them with students, arranging
meals for them at the Commons and on
Patterson Court, setting up professional
and departmental panel discussions, and
arranging classes for them to sit inon. As
a result of this work a good rapport and
working relationship has been extab-

lished with the administration, faculty,
the Union, Patterson Court, and the
Davidson students themselves. It is these
same qualities which are vital for a good
SGA president.

2. This year has seen progressive
change in several areas. One example
which will affect many students is the
Patterson Court question. The task for
the 1983-84 SGA will be to act based on
students’ response.

And yet another unresolved issue is
the change from a trimester to a semester
system. Now that it has been decided that
Davidson will change to semester the
SGA can play an important role in mak-
ing this transition as smooth as possible.
A future obstacle which must be ad-
dressed is the question of credit hours.
Once again the SGA will tum to the stu-

dent body for their opinion.

Finally there are the other commit-
tees who have worked well this year —
Tim Johnston's pet project, the Midwest-
em Admissions Committee, the inter-
campus mail system, SGA Weekend, the
Rides Committee, and athletics. Insuring
the continuance of this good work is im-
portant but more crucial is the building
on the foundations which have already
been laid.

3. SGA’s purpose is to represent the
student body and to provide a liason be-
tween the students, faculty, administra-
tion, and trustees. With a new college
president next year the SGA and its presi-
dent will play a more important role than
ever. My responsibility as president will
be to assume this role and to see it carried
out to its fullest potential.

Hunter Monroe

1. A good SGA president must be
aware and articulate, well motivated so
he can motivate others, and thoroughly
disciplined and responsible. The presi-
dent must associate well with students,
faculty, administrators, and trustees.
The president must be respected, but
must respect others. The president must
be willing to devote most of his time to
the job. I am each of these, or I would not
want to be SGA president. ,

My relevant experience includes:
SGA (freshman year), Student Conduct
Council, Residence Hall Council, Media
Board, numerous advisory boards, co-
director of Prime User’s Group, Hall
Counselor, fraternity (Comptroller) and
eating house, Smal! Group leader, work-
ing for the College last summer, and a
broad range of extra-curriculars.

2. The SGA has a two-fold purpose.
First, it is program-oriented, providing
serivces for the benefit of students. The
Phonathon and the Rides Board are good
examples of these worthwhile programs.
Much innovation is possible in finding
new projects and approaching old ones in
new ways. On the other hand, it must
evaluate existing projects and decide
whether to continue them.

Second, the SGA represents the stu-
dent body, acting as a channel for student
opinion and as a guardian of student in-
terests. The SGA organizes efforts to in-
flu€nce policy, through students on ad-
visory boards, direct contact with facul-
ty, administration, and trustees, and
through the SGA president. The presi-
dent's influence is crucial, since he is a
member of the CCRL, the Advisory
Board on Fiscal, Personnel, and De-

velopment Affairs, the Student Conduct
Council, and other important commit-
tees. Also, he takes part in faculty and
trustee meetings, and has the ear of the
administration.

The two roles of the SGA are not
mutually exclusive and any attempt to
view them as such limits the SGA’s ef-
fectiveness.

3. The SGA has the potential to have
a tremendous impact on Davidson next
year, and I want to see that it does. The
SGA will necessarily be a visible organi-
zation. It will need to extablish good
communication with the new College
president, and help him and the College
adjust to each other. If this is done right,
it will make the SGA's job much easier in
the coming years. It needs to keep ab-
reast of policy changes and to act when

necessary. The SGA needs to cooperate
with other organizations. The Y-SSC is
Sponsoring an attempt now to get campus
organization working together to seek
common goals. The SGA should foster
this. [have proposed that the SGA hold a
leadership workshop open to all students
before the start of school next year. The
SGA needs to work with Patterson Court
to assure the future viability of the houses
and to seek a social system acceptable to
students and Administration. The Facul-
ty will decide on the details of the semes-
ter system next year. I suggest that the
flexible credit-hour system be given seri-
ous consideration. Other areas I see as
important are curriculum, athletics, ad-
missions, trustee contact, and faculty
evaluation. Under my guidance, the
SGA will have a busy and productive
year.

Burt Taylor

My SGA experience includes four
years of high school affiliation including
president of the SGA my senior year.
While president, I soon began to under-
stand the importance of delegating au-
thority properly, motivating individuals,
and praising good works — three qual-
ities needed by a president.

While serving as your senator for the
past two years at Davidson, I have both
chaired and served on numerous commit-
tees. I feel, however, that in evaluating a
candidate and his qualifications, one
must not emphasize the number of com-
mittees the candidate has served, but,
more importantly, the quality and diver-
sity of these committees.

As a member of the Educational Pol-
icy Committee, I have worked with both
students and faculty in continuing to
develop Davidson as one of the finest lib-
eral arts colleges in the country.

As an interviewer on the Presidential
Advisory Committee, I was able to dis-
cuss many of the issues with Davidson

students. This interaction with students
not only helped to keep me abreast of the
issues important to Davidson College,
but more importantly, it gave me the op-
portunity to more fully appreciate the
views of students from all facets of the
College.

As a member of the Trustee Contact
Committee, I have been able to discuss
the issues with the trustees, and, in so
doing, I have come to understand the im-
portance of continued student and trustee
interaction.

As chairman of the interviewing
committee for the Patterson Court Study,
I am now more aware of the problems of
the social system at Davidson. After in-
terviewing the president of each house on
and off campus, hall counselors, ‘and
freshmen, I feel I am able to voice many
of the concerns of others.

After serving as a senator for the past
two years at Davidson, I now fully ap-
preciate the opportunity students can
have to voice their concerns to the ad-
ministration. I feel that the knowledge
gained through these years on the SGA

has helped me to be in touch with the stu-
dents’ concerns and that my experience
can help me to voice these concerns to-
wards the administration.

2. One goal that I feel is of most im-
portance deals with more student in-
volvement on the SGA. I believe that
many students feel that if they were not
elected to the senate, then they can not
serve on it. This assumption is false, for
these students can serve on SGA com-
mitte s and have a voice in determining
voting. The problem arises with the com-
munication gaps that often exist between
the students and the senate. I feel that
their goal of getting more students in-
volved can be accomplished by estab-
lishing a more open organization. The
SGA needs to work more closely with the
school paper in providing the student
with more information about the action
of the senate. I would also like to see a
letter sent to each student describing the
actions and goals of each committee and
urging them to get involved. I would
hope that this letter would encourage
more students involved helping the SGA

to become a more representative organi-
zation.

Another important goal is for the
president and members of the SGA to be-
come more available to the students. I
would urge all senators to periodically
visit their classmates and to discuss the
issues with them.

I] feel that with this availability of the
president and senators to the students
along with the development of a more
open organization the SGA could then
more fully develop its goals. Given a
commitment by the students and the
members of the SGA these goals would
be reached.

3. The Student Government Associa-
tion is an organization that is composed
of elected classmates and interested stu-
dents who work together to best repre-
sent the students’ opinions. I feel that the
Senate’s role is to fully understand its
purpose. The senators must direct their
ears towards their classmates and ac-
tively voice the students’ concerns to-
wards the Administration.
