“~The Davidsonian

Se Friday ; March 35; 1983- «419

The First Step to Compassion —

“Barry Pinos

Pier as

a
ae .

It's a typical story: some bar up in Massachusetts.
lots of people. Four men attack and rape 4a woman on the

floor of the bar. Nobody tries to stop them. Nobody calls —

the police. Nobody even gets up to leave.

It’s the kind of stuff that’Paul Harvey or somebody _

picks up on — soft news. We listen to it. Sometimes
we’re appalled. Then we forget.

After all, I may not even have the facts right on this
one; somebody else told me about it. But that’s not really

the point. There are plenty of similar examples, exam-.

ples of people showing a profound lack of concern and
compassion for the other people around them. We’ ve all
heard the horror stories: automobile accidents where no-
body stops, muggings and murders on crowded city
streets. And God save the German people! They let Hi-
tler happen. So cold.

But we all do it. We “don’t get involved.” We have
all cast our eyes away, either through fear or through
apathy or through selfishness. I used to get bullied as a
kid, but there have indeed been times when I have
walked away from another kid who was suffering the
same torment. Yes, it happens in small ways, but it hap-

‘pens.

. And it makes me nauseated. Granted, maybe it’s 4 |

little thing, but this tendency of ours to be impersonal,
unmoved, detatched — call it what you will — is
perhaps the gravest problem facing humankind (that
means us) today.

To be sure; it’s encouraging that there are those who
are fighting the nuclear arms race, crying out for
women’s rights, condemning torture, and preaching

Before all else,
we must let the typical
stories of this life
apall us

equality, but let’s be honest: what does it all mean if, at
bottom, humans have no genuine sense of loyalty to each
other? If we do not believe the above efforts to be in
vain, we must witness — we must embody — a sincere
commitment by humans and for humans.

This is not a novel idea. People and institutions have
been telling us this for centuries, and yet there does not

%

seem to have been any remarkable progress. Some do
not believe that such progress is possible. But it must be.

Progress is now a matter of survival. No longer is there
comfort in the well-worn consolation that “every age has
had its disasters and has forseen the End.” We do not
need to be reminded that the End is more real and immi-

‘nent than ever before. Our age is unparalleled, and so

must be our actions. Truly, the profound questions of

-human destiny can no longer be of interest only to the

idealists.

The first step must be small and yet infinitely large.
Before all else, we must let the typical stories of this life
appall us. They must appall us to the point where we will
stand up against the injustice that takes place daily right
in front of our noses, for only then can we expect to sur-
* ive. Only then will there be nuclear disarmament and
equality, and only then will nations act as groups of feel-
ing human beings.

But this first step of compassion is imperative. We
must take it right now, and it must be an aspect of our
day-to-day €xistence. For we most surely are not going
to sincerely help the sick, the starving, and the tortured
who are thousands of miles away until we are able to
stoop down and help the lady getting raped onthe bar
floor at our feet.

Elledge i is a sophomore Mathematics major ‘from Boone,
North Carolina.

Science and Faith

To the Editor:
After reading “The Case for
Creationism” in last week’s paper sev-

eral times, I felt it necessary to comment
on the author’s treatment of science. It is
not my intention here to join the bandwa-
gon of those restricting creationism from
the classroom but rather to clarify an ap-
parent misconception of science. To
claim that science is founded in faith and
that everything in science is invalid with-
out faith is to reveal an absolute ignor-
ance in the concept of science. Science is
founded in a specific method of empiri-
cally tested hypotheses. There is no sci-
ence without also an accumulation of
data and careful experimentation. Fur-
thermore, once a tentative conclusion is
reached, it is science again that chal-
lenges and scrutinizes it until proven
valid. Science constantly ‘seeks truth
through repeated empirical testing.

Faith, on the other hand, is, by defi-
nition, belief in something for which
there is no proof. Barring the philosophi-
cal interpretation of faith, there is no
faith in science and there is certainly no
science in faith. Where science can
prove, faith cannot. To call creationism
“creation science” is inaccurate because
creationism, like al! of Christianity, re-
lies entirely on faith.

Perhaps it in unfair to offer only
evolution in the classroom. Go on then,
teach creationism as -well. Give them
equal time. But where evolution has
every right to be ‘taught as science,
creationism has none.

Dave Donahower '83

Ed. note — It would seem many did not
understand the author's true intentions
with this article. Perhaps it was-a bit too
subtle. We suggest that you read it once
more, but this time pay special attention
to the last few paragraphs.

Campus Mirrors.

To The Editor:

As a person who stands 5’ 2” in her
bare feet, I have a complaint about the
Mirrors on campus. In my opinion they
were all hung with Cliff Tribus in mind.
The mirrors were certainly not placed for
the 5’4”-and-under crowd.

Don’t be too hasty to dismiss my ire
‘as the paranoia of a vain coed. I don’t
think that my mirror gazing exceeds that
of others on campus. After all, doesn’t
everyone use the mirror over their sinks
to put in their contacts? To brush their
hair? To make sure they’ve wiped all of
the toothpaste off their mouths? To check
for grey hairs?

As for the mirrors in the gym, these -
also reveal my presence in the room only
if I have a distinct cowlick. Otherwise, I
lumber up on the sink on my knees to
comb my chlorinated hair. Maybe if I
were as good a basketball player as Mike
Frankhouser, I, too, could have some
mirrors hung in my honor.

In regard to the eating houses, have
you ever gone to the bathroom to “pow-
der your nose” and done it while jumping

up and down for glimpses in the mirror?
Or, after standing around at a court party
for an hour with no one speaking to you,
have you never gone to the bathroom to
check for food in the teeth? As you can
see, this mirror problem is not one to be
easily dismissed. Rather, it is one of the
more widely reflected problems on cam-
pus.
Give the matter your serious cnsider-
ation. It has been an important one
throuZhout history. What would Sleep-
ing Beauty have done if she couldn’t see
in the mirror (Mirror, mirror on the wall .
. .)? What would Alice in Wonderland
have done? No less important, to whom
would the man in the Foamy shaving
cream commercials talk if he couldn’t
see in the mirror?

As you can see, there are many
facets to this issue. Could the high place-
ment of our mirrors on campus be a re-
flection of our times? Would a lowering
of the mirrors be a lowering of our stan-
dards?

Catherine Finegan ’84

Hattie’s

To the Editor:

Last Thursday Fannie & Mable’s
sponsored the 8th annual Hattie’s Night
Celebration in -honor of the bar that.
burned down in 1975. The campus
emptied.a phenomenal:20 kegs of Coors

“and a great time was had by all.
: . We would like to take this opportu-. .
nity to thank all those fraternities andeat- |...

-ing houses: who contributed kegs for the
party. Without the help of these houses

Hattie’s would be just another party. We
are sorry that there were conflicts on the
court with other events, but this seems

unavoidable. Thanks once again to all

those who helped out and a special
thanks to the police officers who helped
keep the party safe and under control.

We are looking forward to a a bigger and:

better Hattie’s next year. .

Muffin fAlford 85
F & M Social Chairmen

Jeff Holland "84 .

Thanks

To the Editor:

I would like to express my sincere ap-
preciation to the fine people who give us
those fine films every Wednesday night.
I find the cartoons classic, the comedy
shorts hilarious, and the feature films to
be of the highest quality.

Keep it up Fine Filmers! You provide
a great break in what would otherwise be
a desolate week; a waste land; a cultural
desert; and I thank you.

Richard Terry

Congratulations

To the Editor:

1 would like to congratulate you and
David on your first issue of The Davidso--
nian, which I was pleased to read from
front page to calendar. I am especially
pleased at the direction toward thorough-
ness, professionalism, and quality which
the paper appears to be taking under your
leadership.

A strong Davidsonian, respondent
and responsible first to its readers and
then to the sense of ethics of its editors, is
an ideal which each of us in our ownway
must be willing to fight for.

Wm. W. Kirkpatrick, Jr.

pe
The Davidsonian welcomes letters from

our readers. We try to print all letters that
are: of :general interest, Bring typed,

_| signed letters to The Davidsonian office

by 7 p.m, Tuesday. Include your phone
number and address. The Davidsonian

‘| doesnot in any way endorse the opinions

‘expressed in the letters wé print.
