12 Friday, October 7, 1983/The Davidsonian

By STEVE SOUD

Poet Marianne Moore writes,
“You cannot admire what you do not
understand.” [ think this tenet often
applies to baseball when people call it
boring. When someone utters such a
slur against the national pastime, fans
leap to defend it. But is there anyone to
defend Davidson’s new riding pro-
gram? So that you don’t go to a meet
and quickly denounce riding, I’Il pro-
vide you with a brief introduction to
the sport.

The first task is to explain that
there are two basic genres of riding
styles. What we all see John Wayne do
on Saturday mornings is called West-
ern style. Rope them doggies and the
like. The Davidson jockeys, however,
ride English style. The English saddle
i$ flat with no horn and was designed
for fox hunts. The stirrups are higher,
so that the knees are bent at about a 45-
degree angle, which allows for more
control over the horse. (In Western

From The Locker Room

Walk, Trot, Canter, and Gallop

style there is little or no bend in the
knee.) Also, the reins are held taut in
English style. The Davidson ridets all
use hunt seats, a specific type of En-
glish saddle.

A horse is a five-speed animal.
“First gear” is the walk, a four-beat
gait (beat referring to the sound of the
horse’s hooves). The speed moves up
to a trot (a two-beat gait) and then to a
canter (again, a four-beat gait), which
is the fastest speed you'll see in a horse
show. The other speeds are a gallop,
and the man-induced rack.

With those basic points behind us,
we can now concern ourselves with ac-
tual procedure of an event.

One minute before a-rider saddles
up, she meets her horse. Until that time
rider and horse are total strangers, and
neither is sure what the other can or
will do. But such is life.

The rider walks the horse once
around the ring and then “trots a circle”
somewhere in the middle. Eventually
the rider breaks the horse into a canter.
The jockey, guiding the horse toward

their fence, must approach the obstacle
at right angles, else the horse won’t
jump correctly.

At the same time, the rider must —
with all delicacy and subtlety — make
sure the horse is “‘on the correct lead.”
This is tricky business. The term lead
refers to the lead foot of the horse. It’s
unnatural for a horse to travel in a cir-
cle, especially a small one. At canter
speed, the horse’s inside foot — the

foot away from the rail — should go
out first. Otherwise the judge subtracts
points.

In getting the horse on the proper
lead the rider must tighten the outside
rein (the side toward the rail) and
simultaneously squeeze the outside
flank of the horse with her leg. When a
good rider does this, all is unnotice-
able. If all goes well, the horse will
skip from the counter canter (wrong
lead foot) into the proper canter.

As horse and rider near the fence,
the saddle occupant must smoothly
stand in the stirrups without a lot of
disorderly motion. This is called the

two point position. As the horse jumps
the rider must lean forward. The joc-
key’s hands travel up the horse’s neck
without putting pressure on the neck.
The slightest imbalance can cause the
horse to fall. Thus the rider must con-
centrate to keep her head up so as not to
throw herself off-balance and con-
seqhently send the horse headlong. If
you think you’re gonna fall, grab the
horse’s mane — or whatever’s closest.

If the rider succeeds in her jump
without injury to herself or her horse,
she must regain control and prepare for
the next jump. Depending upon where
the obstacle is, the rider might have to
change leads.

Each rider is judged on equitation,
or how well she rides. It helps to flash
the judge a smile. First place receives
seven ponts; second, five; third, four;
and fourth, three.

So next time you call something
boring out of ignorance, do yourself a
favor and learn about it. I trust you'll
never again have that problem with
horse riding.

Equestrian Team
Attends First Show

By MANDY DOTSON

The nine-woman team placed fourth
in the St. Andrews Horse Show in
Laurinburg, N.C., behind USC, St. An-
drews, and the College of Charleston.

Coach Nancy Hoffman was pleased
with the results of the team’s first show,
especially in light of the fact that David-
son's team was one of the smallest, hav-
ing fewer point riders in each class to
contribute to the team’s overall scofe.
Eight of nine Davidson riders won rib-
bons in their respective classes, a strong
showing which becomes covered up
when compared to the stats of teams who
had twice as many riders.

The team is also inexperienced; at
least three riders had never shown before
a judge before Saturday’s competition.
The team also did not have the home
court advantage, and they rode horses
they had never seen or ridden before.
Rules permitted only one minute before
the beginning of each class for the riders
to become acquainted with their mounts.

Individual winners for Davidson
were: in the Beginner Walk-Trot class,
Kelly Sundberg (3rd); Advanced Walk-
Trot, Patricia Lennon (2nd); Beginner
Walk-Trot-Canter, Laura Raney (4th);
Advanced Walk-Trot-Canter, Susan
Moore and Mandy Dotson (3rd and 4th
respectively); Novice Equitation on the
Flat, Shery! Aikman and Julie Waters
(2nd and 4th respectively); and Novice
Equitation Over Fences, Julie- Waters
(4th).

The team is now preparing for its next
show, which takes place Oct. 30 at USC
in Columbia, S.C. The competition will
be stiff; many North and South Carolina
teams will be represented, and possibly
some teams from Georgia and Florida as
well. ‘

The newly formed Davidson riding
team made an impressive debut into the
world of Intercollegiate Horse Show As-
sociation (IHSA) competition Oct. 1,
winning ribbons in every class it entered.

Athlete Of The Week

Heather McKee is this week’s
Athlete df the Week. McKee, a freshman
from Charlotte, has provided much
needed defensive help for the Wildcat
field hockey team in the early season.
Her much improved play this week was
crucial in preserving the team’s two
wins, a 2-0 victory over Pfeiffer last Fri-
day and a I-0 victory over Catawba yes-
terday. Coach Pat Daley _ stresses
McKee’s contributions this week: “She
plays a smart game and has struck the
ball well lately. As sweeper, she’s been a
vital part of our defense.”

WHAT TO DO
AFTER COLLEGE...

you use ft meaningfully?

can Nave unequaled opponunity tor leadership and management! ex
penence plus an excellent starting salary and penetits pochage
Consider An Force ROTC as a gateway '0 a grea! woy of life for you

pays $100 a month tuition book costs and lob and incidental fees

the answer fo what you ve been looking tor

Goteway to a great way of lite.

HAE TRACKS FOR THE
BEST EATIN’ALL AROUND !

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring
along this money-savin’ coupon.

"STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND

IS O Questian a lol of young people in nigh school and college
are asking Ther even if you ge! the fines! college degree where can

Perhaps the answer lies in becoming an Au Force otticer through Aur

Fagce,ROTC We nave mam different career areas it which specialists
ofall kinds are needed And as an Ait Force Commissioned Officer you

Find out about the benefits of a four three or two year scholarship that

Couple that with whal will be wailing alter giaduahon and you have

ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
| combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours. |

only at participating Hardee's Restaurants ,
through May 31, 1984. dees
c 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc .

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR
FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.78 |

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in t
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
participating Hardee’s Restaurants through
May 31, 1984. | ; 9

¢ 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc. - dees |

Ee Ce Ge Ge EG Go CS a ee ae ee

on Bh
