Friday, October 7, 1983/The Davidsonian

Faculty Holds First Meeting of 1983-84 School
ear

The faculty held its first meeting of the 1983-84 school year on Tuesday af-
temoon.

Faculty Secretary Malcolm Partin opened the meeting by reading the mi-
nutes of the last meeting. Interim President Frontis Johnston then gave a short
address.

The Executive Committee distributed copies of the calendar. Faculty Presi-
dent David Kaylor also reported on the Presidential Search Committee’s prog-
ress.

The faculty also approved three new course offerings: Anthropology 103,
Introduction to Anthropological Folklore; Political Science 230, a seminar in
American Politics; and Political Science 293, an internship. Both of the new
political science classes are part of Davidson’s Washington, D.C. program.

North Carolina Fellows Announced

The following members of the class of 1986 were chosen N.C. Fellows after
interviews running all day Saturday:
Christi Baggett, Sara Beasley, John Clark, Janice Evans, Mary Beth Harding,
Ed Hay, Fred Kalmbach, Paulette Kurani, Anne Lambert, Allen Mast, Peggy
Pierotti, Beadsie Woo.

Hobart Park Now Accepting Submissions

Hobart Park, Davidson’s student literary magazine, began accepting sub-
missions for its fall issue on Wednesday. The final deadline for submissions is
October 16.

Hobart Park accepts poetry, fiction, artwork, and photography. Co-Editors
Suzanne Dickey and Scott Myers are especially interested in receiving more vi-
sual art submissions, since they received none for the last issue (Spring 1983).

The fall issue will have 80-100 pages of text and will be distributed to stu-
dents free of charge. The editors plan to print 1000-1200 copies of Hobart Park
and would like to distribute it before Christmas vacation.

Hobart Park now has seventeen staff members, most of whom are freshmen.
Dickey welcomes new staff members as well.

“

Cocaine Use Causes Growing Violence

CPS—During the summer, 22-year-old University of Colorado journalism
student Sid Wells was found dead in his off-campus condominium, shot in the
head from close range with a shotgun. “

The brutal murder frightened a lot of students, and saddened Wells’s friends,
who almost universally reported him as a nice, unassuming, smart fellow.

Then came the results of the police investigation: Wells’s death was proba-
bly connected to campus cocaine traffic. Boulder police have since begun a
wider probe into student cocaine use at the bustling, mountainside campus.

Boulder is supposed to be hip. Lincoln, Nebraska isn’t. But earlier in Sep-
tember University of Lincoln (UNL) police arrested two students and seized an
estimated $200,000 worth of coke.

The incidents illustrate that cocaine dealing and its related violence are not
only plaguing some campuses, these days, but may slowly be filtering onto
many other cmapuses as the “drug of the rich” becomes more readily available,

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 149 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available
on request: Second class postage pald at Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Copyright
held by the Trustees of Davidson College. | ae

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor

Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
Lentz ivey, Business: Manager

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Kelly Sundberg, Features Editor

Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Steve Soud, Sports Editor -

NEWS SUMMARY

and the price gap between it and marijuana narrows.

While most campus law enforcement officers say that cocaine use still isn’t
as widespread or troublesome as drinking or marijuana use, more are noticing its
presence on campus, and its growing acceptance by students.

“There’s definitely a growing use of cocain on college campuses,” says
Gerardo Gonzalez, director of the Campus Drug Information Center at the Uni-
versity of Florida and president of Boost Alcoho! Consciousness Concerning the
Health of University Students, a national organization which helps students and
administrators confront drug and alcohol problems on campus.

“Coke has kind of become the ‘in’ thing to do,” he notes. “And as the sub-
stance becomes more socially acceptable, it gets more attention. as more people
see it around, you also see a greater availability, and the cycle continues.”

Boulder police are busting an average of 25 Colorado students a year for
coke possession and sales, says Lt. Jim Fadenrecht, compared to two or three
cocaine-related arrests a few years ago.

“The majority of coke arrests are related to rock concerts on campus,” he
says, and “a handful are made in dorms and student housing.”

“Cocain is becoming a more and more common problem on our campus,”
agrees Lt. Joe Wehner of UNL campus security. “It is no longer unusual to find
people selling coke on campus alonjg with other illegal narcotics.”

Even on campuses where cocaine isn’t labeled a problem, law enforcement offi-
cials report it is certainly getting more noticeable.

“Arrest-wise, we haven't seen any big increase with cocaine,” says Inves-

tigator Crystal Limerick of the University of Virginia police. “But I feel its
around, and I am constantly surprised that it’s not a bigger problem than it is,”
she adds.

The National Institute on Drug Abuse says nearly 29 percent of the 18-to-25-
year-old population has used coke, and use of cocaine in general has doubled
since 1975.

Honor Code Suspensions Announced

The Dean of Students office has released its final tally of last year’s Honor
Code and Code of Responsibility suspensions.

Nine student were suspended for Honor Code violations, five for stealing,
four for cheating. Two students were suspended on Code of Responsibility vio-
lations. Of the eleven suspensions, four were handled by Dean of Students Will
Terry and seven were handled by the Honor Council.

Terry said there have been no Honor Code or Code of Responsibility cases so
far this year.

Kappa Alpha Wins Second Hoover Award

Davidson’s Sigma chapter of the Kappa Alpha Order fraternity captured the
Hoover award for chapter excellence for the second year in a row. While the na-
tional organizationusually presents three of the trophies, this year only one was
awarded.

The prize, named after J. Edgar Hoover, was presented at the KA National
Leadership Institute held in August in Springfield, Missouri. The chapter was
judged on service, social program, and academic performance. KA members
Sam Hay, Mike Wilkinson, Tony Holt, and Scott Beaver attended the confer-
ence.

Y-Corps To Hold Barbecue

The Y-Student Service Corps will hold a barbecue chicken picnic and square
dance tomorrow afternoon on the Chambers lawn. The barbecue picnic will last
from 4-6 p.m, and the square dance will last from 6:15 until everyone leaves.
The outdoor event will also feature New Games. Tickets cost $3.50 and can be
obtained from any Y member.

News Staff: David McGee. Assistant News Editor, Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Jackie Daughtry,
Roxanna Gulford, Wayne Magruder, Bruce Plourde, Greg Smouse, Sarah Smith, Julie Sternal,
Aaron Taylor, Lisa;Thomas, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Ted Wilson

Features Staff: Miguel. Abreu, Brian Butler, Stewart Cauley, Jabn.Gathings, Stephen Mank, Matt
Morris

Sports Staff: Scott Huie; Assistant Sports Editor; Boyd Blackbur, Kara Gilmore, Pam Harmann,
Rand Hartsell

Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Caryl Dawson., Virginia. Harris, Kevin
Horan, Mike Jester, Laura McGee, Carroll Overton, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein Anderson Scott
Staff Artists: Ann Hunter, Wilson Lowrey, Alva Moore, Susan Norman

Circulation Staff: David McCurry, William White

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Rob Hollenbeck. Compositors: Lisa Thomas. Lou Hamilton,
Debby Williams. Copy Editing: Christine Jackson’ ;

