The Davidsonian/Friday , September 23, 1983 3

Casey Heads Computers

By DAN VOORHIS

New Computer Director John Casey
sees computers as playing a larger role in
the liberal arts curriculum in the future.

Since arriving at Davidson as former
Director Bob DeSieno’s replacement,
Casey has been impressed by Davidson’s
commitment to a computer network and
educating people to use it. The College’s
efforts show its desire “to maintain its
place among the best of the liberal arts
colleges,” Casey said. The system “is in-
tegral with the College” and will come to
play an increasing role in the everyday
life of the students, faculty, and adminis-
tration.

To make computers more responsive
to the needs of the users, Casey plans to
change the structure of the system. The
College currently uses a large main-
frame computer connected to about 25
terminal scattered around the campus.
These large central computers must han-
dle each command one at a time, causing
slight delays.

Also, a main computer must remain
general and cannot perform many func-
tions as easily as a computer designed
specifically for them. For instance, word
processing on the College’s computer is
unwieldy and not “user friendly.”

Casey proposes to mix the wide use
of private and College-owned personal
computers for smaller individualized
tasks and the traditional central computer

Cc

Oo

t

@®

>

fe)

e

8

>

fed

John Casey

for complex programs. This is not a
unique approach, explains Casey.

“Nationwide, there is a trend away from
just a single central computer toward a
more integrated system.”

Casey took over during the summer
amid stories that PRIME, the maker of
the College’s computer, was going bank-
rupt. He denies the rumors, saying he is
“not concerned” that the company will
go under. He blamed the reports on

overly optimistic growth predictions and
management shuffles.

However, AXXESS, the corporation
that produced the College’s administra-
tive software, did “go belly-up,” accord-
ing to Casey. He explained that enough
software had been put in place that
Davidson could continue to program on
its own. “We’ve become more self-re-
liant because we’re flying on our own.
I'd say we’re at least as well off,” he
said.

Completing the programming of the
PRIME computer and the phasing out of
the NCR unit in Chambers are Casey’s
two priorities this fall.

Long-range plans include setting up
programs to train all users for personal
computers, supporting their use, and
conducting research and development in
that area.

The College and its people impress
Casey. “It attracted me as a place I would
like to be. Everyone has been extremely
warm and friendly.” He came with
“rather high expectations. And nothing
since has disappointed me.”

Casey came to Davidson from Carth-
age College in Kenosha, Wisconsin
where he taught for five years and held
administrative posts as registrar, As-
sociate Dean, and Director of Data Pro-
cessing. He saw Davidson’s job adver-
tisement in Computer World magazine.

Casey received a Bachelor of Science
from Loyola College in Baltimore and an
M.S. and PhD, all in solid-state physics,
from Michigan State University. He is
married and has three children.

Inter-campus
Mail Revised

By JULIE STERNAL

College Union work-study students
are now overseeing the inter-campus
mail system which SGA volunteers oper-
ated last year.

David Hutchenson delivered the let-
ters last year on a volunteer basis. Ac-
cording to SGA President Hunter Mon-
roe, the system worked very well, but the
SGA foresaw problems in keeping on
enough people to run the system.

Hutchenson suggested that the Finan-
cial Aid office have a work-study student
operate the service.

Hutchenson said that it was difficult
to deliver the mail regularly. He felt that
a work-study student would have more
incentive than a volunteer might to spend
the seven-to-eight hours necessary to de-
liver the mail.

One work-study student currently de-
livers the mail, but a second student will
be added if needed. Anyone on campus
may use the service. Off-campus houses
and offices will not be included in the
service.

If you have any letters to mail on
campus, bring them to the Union desk
and give them to either Todd Cowdery or
Jim Perry. Mail will be delivered with
two days.

Eighteen Professors Join Davidson Faculty

Editor's nate: This. is the first of two articles on David-

son's new professors for the 1905-8# scnooryear.

By JOHN GATHINGS

Eighteen professors from across the country have ar-
rived at Davidson College this fall to join the faculty as
either visiting or continuing professors. Most of the new
faculty are here for a limited time, or visiting lecturers or
temporary substitutes for faculty members on leave.

Regardless of their varied fields, they seem to be un-
ified in their opinions of Davidson. “It’s overwhelm-
ingly friendly,” said new philosophy professor Irwin
Goldstein. Visiting anthropology professor Rosemary
Zumalt recalls that “people really wanted me to feel
comfortable.”

The new professors also seem pleased with the qual-
ity of students here. Linda Pellechia, a new professor in
the art department, was “really surprised with the stu-
dents’ willingness to say things in class. They ask intelli-
gent questions and come back with good answers.” She
was also “impressed with their enthusiasm and willing-
ness to learn.” New psychology professor Cole Barton
found the “students impressive” and “seriously hard
working.”

Linda Pellechia

Linda Pellechia has come to Davidson as a Mellon |
Assistant Professor in the Art Department. The Mellon.

Foundation supplies funding for especially promising
young professors to encourage contributions in their
fields and to the humanities.

Pellechia did her undergraduate work at Smith Col-
lege and received her master’s and doctoral degrees from
Harvard University. She has taught at Cornell and
worked as the head teaching fellow in the fine arts de-
partment at Harvard.

In addition to her academic achievements, Pellechia
also has spent a total of seven years in Florence, Italy.
While in Italy she did various odd jobs, working as an in-

terpreter, as an English teacher, and as a cattle shipper.
“Nicene 8 crocs) Sotanterestag ” coe esti oy

While in Italy she cultivated an interest in Renais-
sance art and returned to the U.S. to attend graduate
school. Her studies centered on art history, because she
feels it involves “the understanding of a culture that is
different from our own.”

Pellechia is on a tenure track here at Davidson, and is
teaching art history. She is considering long-range plans
of publishing a monograph on Giuliano da Sangallo. She
also hopes to return to Europe to pursue research in the
future.

New Philosophy Professors

Assistant professor Michael P. Smith and two-year
visiting assistant professor Irwin Goldstein have both
joined the Philosophy Department.

Smith graduated from the University of Mas-
sachusetts at Amherst and got his masters and doctoral
degrees from UNC-Chapel Hill. He has taught at Rice
University, Texas A & M University, and at Occidental
College. Besides his job teaching at Davidson, he is in-
terested in translating works of philosophy. He feels that
“everybody has something unique to add to the total pic-
ture.” He is especially interested in trying to find the
original meaning of these works and is presently en-
gaged in a project of this type.

Goldstein is an honor graduate of Carleton Univer-
sity in Ottawa, Canada, received his masters degree
from the University of Bristol in England and his Ph.D.
at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. He has
taught at Southern Methodist University, the University
of Texas at Dallas, Loyola University in Chicago, and
Southwest Missouri State University.

When questioned about the diversity of the places
where he worked and studied, he said that it is “fascinat-
ing to live at other places. I find that quite exciting.”

His curiosity for new things spills into his profes-
sional life as well, as he is finishing a book which explo-

. .fes the experiences of pleasure -and-pain. Goldstein has

put considerable work into the text. “I think every page

vas been rewreeton sharty seme soo UND Wneppis Gor |

tinual process of clarification,” he said. He hopes to con-
tinue this kind of work even after he finishes this first
bock because he feels that “trying to reach others is a
very important part of philosophy.”

Rosemary Zumalt

Rosemary Zumalt joins the faculty as a visiting assis-
tant professor in the Sociology and Anthropology De-
partment, a graduate from the University of California at
Santa Cruz. She received an M.A. in folklore and a
Ph.D. in anthropology from the University of California
at Berkeley. Her previous work includes teaching at the
University of South Carolina in Columbia, at Mills Col-
lege in Oakland, California, and at the University of
California at Santa Cruz.

Zumalt did not at first intend to pursue a career in this
field but instead dropped out of college as a sophomore
to get married. Her husband worked as a lawyer for a
Navajo reservation. They lived on the reservation and it
was there that she became interested in anthropology.
Zumalt later spent some time living in Point Hope,
Alaska, where she researched the tradition and cultures
of the Eskimos.

She will be teaching at Davidson for one year and
then hopes to spend the summer in Paris, France where
she wants to do research on the unpublished works of a
French folklorist.

Cole Barton

Cole Barton is the new Assistant Professor of Psy-
chology. He received his Ph.D. from the University of
Utah, where he also taught for one year. He has also
worked with clinical psychology at the Primary Chil-
dren’s Hospital in Salt Lake City.

He hopes to “establish an ongoing research program
to study interpersonal relationships” and to provide
training experiences for Davidson students interested in
becoming psychologists. He also anticipates doing re-

« lated work.inthe Davidson community.
