The Davidsonian/Friday , September 23, 1983 9

Script Unchanged In 35-12 Loss To Lafayette

By SCOTT HUIE

The game typified Davidson football
of last couple of years. From week to
week, the script is the same. The Cats are
pitted against a clearly superior team.
With youthful vigor and enthusiasm,
they play competitively for a quarter or
so, stirring a few cheers from the crowd.
But then they fall prey to a few costly er-
rors, which lead to a couple of
touchdowns by the opponent. Boom,
Davidson is jn a hole too deep to escape,
and all the frat guys, clad in button-down
shirts and plaid ties, depart to their
cocktail parties even before halftime.

Yes, Davidson lost again last Satur-
day, 35-12 to the Leopards of Lafayette
(Pa.).

Defensive captain Stone Bynum, ag-
reeing with this theory of Davidson foot-
ball, described the loss.
doubt, we were keyed up for this one,
and we may have drained ourselves too
soon. They hit us with the big play, and
then it was letdown city.”

After holding Lafayette to an impres-
sive 1-2-3-punt on its first possession,
quarterback Keith Martin led a Davidson
drive down to the Lafayette 17. But
sophomore kicker Bob Carr missed on
the field goal attempt. No score yet, but
as Bynum said, “We knew we could Play

By STEVE SOUD

Although a lot of people — most of
all the Charlotte Observer —didn’t
Tecognize it, Davidson soccer came of
age in last Wednesday’s 3-0 loss to
Duke, the top team in the nation.

Those of you who had the misfor-
tune of wandering past the opening
sentence of David Scott’s article in the
Observer may have gotten the impres-
sion that the Blue Devils came off the
field with icing on their feet. (That’s an
obscure reference to a cakewalk.) The
Wildcats played admirably.

Consider the Appalachian State
game of 1980 as an example of my
point. At that time the Mountaineers
were ranked 8th in the country,
primarily because of a young man
named Thompson Uysian. Uysian put
on a show, and ASU went on to win 9-
|. That was a cakewalk. Incidentally,
Uysian went on to win Rookie of the
Year honors in the NASL the next
year.

Duke came here as the No. |
ranked team in college soccer. Consid-
ering the fact that American soccer has
improved greatly over the last three
years, one can Safely say that No. |
now is better than No. | of 1980. The
improvement in Davidson’s score
from 1980 against number eight to
1983 against number one is somewhat
more than noticeable.

Now, consider the Clemson-North
Carolina game of last week. North
Carolina was ranked 4th in the coun-
try, and Clemson 8th. The Tigers
traveled to Chapel Hill and crushed the

“Without a’

— From The Locker Room

Soccer Game No Cakewalk

with them after that drive.”
Down by seven at the quarter, David-

son roared back with a textbook 80-yard
scoring drive, highlighted by four pass
completions by Martin and some nifty
running by backs Carl Tolbert and Mike
Cate.

But then, the big play, letdown city,
and finally cocktail hour. On the next
series, the Lafayette tailback found a
hole on the right side and raced 65.vards ._

Tar Heels 7-0. That sounds a little bit
more like a cakewalk.

So the moral of this little exercise
is that Davidson soccer has improved.
It has come of age.

Charlie Slagle has gotten an awful
lot of talent out of very little resources.
With a recruiting budget that’s pocket
change compared to Duke’s, he has
brought in a number of very talented
players. Duke has eleven fall scholar-
ships to offer; Davidson none. I under-
state the fact that the odds were stacked
against Davidson.

The game itself was not as lopsided
as the score. The first goal came on a
penalty kick that goalie Pat Woodward
nearly stopped. The second came on a
booming shot that no one really ex-
pected. The third came on a slight de-
fensive lapse in which a player wasn’t
double-teamed. It’s not so difficult to
imagine a 0-0 game, providing a few
things could have been done diffe-
rently.

Never did the Wildcats roll over
and play dead. They controlled the ball
for portions of the game, and although
Davidson never threatened to upset the
Blue Devils, it was a decent match. No
one got fed to the wolves.

It showed, of course, that David-
son soccer has matured. It wasn’t so
long ago that Davidson couldn’t even
think about playing a Top Ten team
and hope to win. It is a tribute to a bur-
geoning program that they gave Duke
a respectable showing. Keep tabs on
these guys; I think you’!l find them ex-
citing, fun to watch, and winners.

Semi-stellar performances made Davidson’ s loss to Lafayette a bit more bearable

Tre et 7
are 7%, ree

for the score. The Leopards racked up
three more touchdowns in their attack,
thanks mostly to the accurate passing of
Lafayette All-American quarterback
Frank Novak, who threw for 216 yards.

Davidson could score but once more,
on a dazzling 34-yard touchdown com-
pletion to workhorse Jeff “Chuck” McS-
wain. For the day, McSwain caught five
passes for 62 yards.

Said Cnack Goreoll Wa « dost mast Irnne/

Tre Fw oT.

By Jane Campbell

by a great team. They definitely do des-
erve their national ranking. For us to
have stayed in the game with their talent,
we would have had to have been almost
perfect.”

Perfect they weren’t, but some semi-
stellar performances did occur. Besides
McSwain’s achievements, Cate rushed
for 51 yards on I5 carries and one
touchdown. Martin appears to be regain-
ing that old trusty passing form as he con-
nected on 14 of 21 strikes for 165 yards
and a touchdown. Defensively, D.E.
“Wolf” Wright stole the honors with 16
tackles.

Tomorrow the Cats travel to New-
berry, South Carolina to tackle the NAIA
Newberry Indians, victorious over the
Cats in their last two meetings. Last year,
Davidson fell in a heartbreaker 8-7 in
spite of dominating the whole game.
Newberry features a run-oriented of-
fense, keyed by fullback Mike Mottey,
who has gained 313 yards in two games.
As a team, the Indians are averaging 260
yards per game rushing. Said Farrell,
“Newberry has always been tough and
aggressive, particularly on defense.” A
cake walk it won’t be, but look for the
Cats to bring home their first win.

Huie’s Prediction:

oe Aaa nn DO. Rls nsdn mee LA... s en

a ere ee Swe ne

The Best And The Worst.
IMAC Preview

It’s time to survey the fall’s IMAC
flickerball teams.

Freshman guys’ halls: As usual,
freshmen men’s hall teams merit no con-
sideration whatsoever. They seem
forever destined to flounder around at the
bottom of the standings, much too wor-
ried about their faces clearing up and
mixers to really care about serious flic-
kerball. They don’t really form good
teams until sophomore year when all the
freshman football players who quit from
the year before join up. Good luck next
year.

(Aggregate Predictions: 0-however

many they play)

Best of the Worst: The Athletic
Apathetics. Once again, Rastafarian
Steve Soud, deposed IMAC Czar, has
thrown together a band of GDIs and frat
members whose fraternities won’t let
them play to form this motley band of
weekend warriors. With the addition of
superstars Dick Lee and Dan Voorhis,
and speedster Charles Wiley, this team
has the potential to go all the way.
Where, I won’t say.

(Prediction: 3-4)

Worst of the Worst: The Vegeta-
bles. This team adds new meaning to the
word sorry. Formed and led by Pete “The
Stap” Astapchick, the only man in
Davidson history to fail his IMAC PE
credit, The Vegetables should keep sev-
eral freshman teams from going winless
this season. If the Vegetables are able to
field a full team, which they were unable
to do last year, they may prove to be the
league’s spoiler.

(Prediction: 1-5)

~ quite ironic considering that. .

Team Profile: Down through the
years, women's flickerball has been
about as exciting as watching the hands
of a clock go around. The high point of
most games seemed to be when the tail-
back finally held on to the center snap.
However, during the last three years, un-
beknownst to most, a female flickerball
dynasty has been emerging. Conceived
in a small back room on Fourth
Richardson three years ago, the Ama-
zons arrived on the scene with their
obscene warm-up chants and _ bruising
style of play. Their long dedicated hours
of practice and fierce competitive drive
let nothing stand in the way of victory.
They are undefeated in three years of
play. Almost as remarkable as this loss-
free stat is the fact that their self-proc-
laimed “Virgin Defense” has been scored
upon only once in three years. This is
. OOPS .

. wait a minute. I’m being censored.
Anyway, the “Zons” are looking ahead
to another outstanding season.

(Prediction: However many they

play-0)

Athlete Of The Week

This week’s Athlete of the Week is
senior captain of the men’s cross-country
team Frank Ivey. Ivey finished first in
Saturday’s season-opening meet at
Duke. With a time of 28:12 over the 5.25
mile course, he won by a |5-second mar-
gin over the top finisher from Duke
which annually boasts one of the
strongest programs in the region. Ivey al-
ready holds the school record in the 800-
meter run.

an eee ee ‘ . wlio a te
