6 Friday, April 22, 1983 / The Davidsonian

An Interview with Hunter Monroe

Davidsonian: What do you see as the main role of the
SGA in the Davidson College community?

Monroe: I hate to pick out one role because | see two
main roles, one being for writing programs for the things
that benefit students directly or indirectly and the other
seeing that student opinion is represented in policy mak-
ing. In terms of a good definition of the purpose of the
SGA, the preamble says it: “We the students of David-
son College . . . share with the the Trustees, faculty, and
administration the responsibility for developing and
maintaining Davidson as a superior academic communi-
ty.” The SGA provides a mechanism for a platform of
active voice for the students, and also presents a level of
character in the student's life — that’s both representing
the community programs and enumerating those rights,
privileges, and responsibilities inherent in all the stu-
dents at Davidson College.

What would you call those rights, responsibilities,
and privileges? How do you interpret that?

A lot of that is covered in the Honor Code and Code
of Disciplinary Procedure, which is not under us really
in any way. However, that is something that we an inde-
pendent body representing the students can keep our
eyes on: making sure that things are done well. | am on
the student conduct council as President of the SGA and
so are all the class presidents, and I see the Student Con-
duct Council as the legislative body for the Honor Code
and Code of Responsibility. That's the way those things
are upheld.

What's vour personal view on sex-blind admissions
at Davidson College?

That's something that I need to look into more. My
first reaction is that, well, this is an academic communi-
ty and it should only select academic basis for admis-
sions. However. | talked about this with a number of
people, and it’s something I am very aware of. People
argue that it’s not just an academic community, it's a
total community, and it’s a social community, and its a
cultural community, and the number of women at
Davidson as students affect the Davidson experience, so
that’s a relevant thing to consider. And so it’s argued
both ways whether having more women at Davidson will
have a positive or negative effect on the Davidson ex-
perience. \

However, one thing that has been shown with
schools that have sex-blind admissions is that they usu-
ally end up that there are more girls than boys — more
women than men — that eventually make up the student
body. At that point two things happen. Less people want
to come to the school for some reason, and the alumni
start giving less. I think our alumni would — you know
the reaction they would have — it’s a dumb thing: as
soon as you reach 51 percent, people react. Ah, David-
son has changed. | don’t like it. That’s something that
we're going to look very closely at, and I think that the
people who do want to push for sex-blind admissions
will have a better basis for doing so after the committee
has made its report. It may also be used to argue for the
quotas that we have now.

Progress is being made in that area. | don’t know if
people realize that. It used to be 2:1 limit, now it’s 3:2.
The admissions still have a limit that the Trustees set, but
that’s too complex an issue for me to say sex-blind ad-
missions or keep it the way it is. That's something im-
portant to me, and I'll appreciate anybody wanting to
talk to me about that.

How about the student president selection committee
and the student consultation committee? Can we really
have a major voice in the selection process of a presi-
dent?

Certainly. They are going to be involved as full
members. The students on the search committee itself
are going to be involved as full members in the process.
Every meeting thus far has been held with the students
participating, and that’s the way they planned it to occur
up to the very final stage, up until the Trustees and only
the Trustees — not even the faculty — make their rec-

ommendations. I think that’s about the best we can hope
for. We have Tim Johnston to thank for that. That’s one
thing that he pushed for, and it will only be as effective
as students make it. Of course, there are five students on
the search committee, and then there’s the consultation
committee, but they're only a small fraction of the stu-
dent body. Students need to go to these people and tell
them what they want in a president, or else it means that
ten people’s views are represented and not the student
body's. Of course they're doing all they can to solicit
those views, but some initiative on the part of the student
body in general will be helpful too.

It seems to students that the SGA is such a secretive
process, and they would like to open it up more.

Oh, | feel extremely strongly about that. I feel ex-
tremely strongly that Davidson College in general is too
secret. Decisions are made all the time, and the only stu-
dent that knows about it is the student body president.

Do you plan to share information from like the facul-
ty meetings and the Trustee meetings?

I'm not going to break the trust that 1s given to me.
I'm going to encourage them to change their rules that fit
for me.

§
_&
=
i

Hunter Monroe

What trust do you see is given to you?

For instance, in faculty meetings. It’s a privilege for
me to be in the faculty meetings, not aright. A lot of pro-
fessors would rather | was not at faculty meetings —
well, some professors, not a lot. So I can’t repeat what
such and such a professor said. And I’m not going to
broadcast the results of votes and who did what.

Do the faculty and administration, as you see it, al-
ways work for what's best for the students?

No, they don’t. I think in most cases they do; how-
ever, I can think of several situations that I don’t care to
go into where students’ interests have just been rolled
over.

How do you and the SGA plan to breach that gap?

One of the problems is just that the people making
the decisions — the faculty, the administration, trustees
— are exposed to the students’ views. That’s one of the
problems. Because the only person that’s in direct con-
tact with them — with the faculty and the trustees in
meetings and in lot of cases with the administration in
general — the only person is the SGA president. I’m just
one person. I have my opinions, and I listen to people.
and I talk to them, but that’s only one avenue.

There was one recent episode where confidentiality
wasn't really breached but there was a comment made
by a gentleman on the Trustee committee that the David-
son student stinks. What is your view of the comment,
first of all? And the backlash or outcry from the student
body about that?

bey | ‘ rn or

I sincerely hope that no trustee could say that and mean
it. I think that says it pretty fairly. I think that having re-
spect for Davidson and what it is and who its students are
is essential to being a public servant. | really don’t think
that John Belk or whoever it was feels that way, because
of all the effort he has put into the College. He may have
seen some Davidson students being real stinkers, but |
don’t think that he feels that Davidson College students
stink,

What is your personal view on the self-selection ver-
sus bid controversy?

Well, I'll tell you what I think of self-selection first. |
don’t like it. I don’t think it is an honest system, because
we have a system that is not followed and I think that the
administration is wrong in putting fraternities in the pos-
ition of — they know that the fraternities want it this
way. They let them act this way, and they have the sys-
tem. And also it hurts freshmen just because they aren't
as well informed as they could be. What can happen if
you go without oral encouragement?

I’m not going to say which is the best system. I think
the best system is the one that the most students are
happy with. And we are doing all we can to get student
opinion. We've had two open forums, surveys, and ex-
tensive interviews. It is going to be compromised; there
are problems with every proposal. But I think that we're
going to be able to work out a good compromise and get
the administration to accept it.

The Davidsonian has received some letters comp-
laining about the decline in the quality of the Davidson
student, especially as is reflected on campaign poster
distribution. How do you respond to this sort of allega-
tion, specifically the letter in last week's Davidsonian?
I don’t see that as representing a general decline in
Davidson students. That’s something that has been done
and just gotten worse. Not much attention has been paid
to it. I think that it will improve. Davidson students on
the whole are very responsible. At how many schools
could you have as loose a Code of Responsibiltiy as we
have and have it work? It’s really not that specific. But it
works. | think Davidson students are on the whole pretty
responsible. But I also think there are some pretty irres-
ponsible students here.

In that same line, what should be our fraternity
pledge practices?

I admit competitiveness between fraternities is good
because it builds up spirit and competition, and makes
you work hard, but you know, sometimes freshmen will
be asked to steal things as part of the pledge programs.
That’s not necessary. That’s not part of a fraternity.
That’s not what fraternities are for.

Does the SGA plan to do anything about curbing this
kind of activity?

Not the SGA. The Student Conduct Council. This is
aconcerm. The fraternities need to know that they cannot
ask their pledges to steal.

How do you like being SGA president?

I’ve gotten lots of positive feedback, which is good.
The job does have its frustrations. I can already see its re-
wards, too. Just in the short time I’ ve been in office, I’ve
been able to help some people do some things just with a
phone call. And I feel that it makes me a much more ef-
fective person in terms of getting things done, getting
what I want to happen, making what I want to happen
happen.

What is the SGA president's single greatest power,
tn your opinion? You have input to the trustees, you have
input on zillions of committees — some more important
than others — you are the voice for the campus. Which of
those various avenues would you say is the most impor-
tant?

It really depends on the situation. Like if we're deal-
ing with a disciplinary issue, or a student life issue, cam-
pus and religious life committee, or student conduct
council.
