Friday, December 7, 1983/The Davidsonian 7

1 Ane
res
a5

~”” Special Basketball Preview

1983-84: The Young Cats

By STEVE SOUD

In the 1983-84 Davidson Basketball
media guide, freshman point guard Cary]
Dawson lists as his favorite author Edgar
Allan Poe. If you press Dawson further,
he might confide that his favorite style of
story is the mystery. That being so, Caryl
should particularly enjoy this season be-
cause the Davidson basketball team is
very much a mystery.

With an average age of just over 19
years, Davidson’s may well be the
youngest college basketball team in the
nation. It divides up into two seniors, one
junior, seven sophomores, ‘and three
freshmen. Twelve of the thirteen players
are-basically unknown quantities — no
one is really sure just how much these
players can contribute. Kenny Wilson,
an All-Conference selection last year and
a strong candidate for Southern Confer-
ence Player of the Year this year, is the
only known quantity. This unknown-to
known ration makes for an enigmatic
team.

On one hand, this is probably David-
son’s deepest, most talented team ever.
Unfortunately, at least in the early sea-
son, youth and inexperience will offset
this talent. To try to utilize his depth as
much as possible, Coach Bobby Hussey
plans to run frequent substitutions and is
looking at statistics per position rather
than per person.

“Basically,” Hussey explains, “we
think we have pretty good depth and not a
whole lot of difference between person-
nel. We’re asking for maximum effort
from each player. We’re paying a lot of
attention on what that position does as
opposed to that player.”

Hussey continues, “It promotes com-
araderie because a guy on the bench is
pulling for his position. We’re evaluat-
ing players based on minutes played.
These evaluations include everything —
not just points. They include block-out
efforts and rebound efforts.”

So far, Hussey has lived up to his
word on using his bench. In three games
every single player has played, and all
but point guard Billy Naso have scored.
Hussey cites Gerry Born as one who is
rating well per minute played. In fact, the
only problem this system foreseeably
poses is lack of continuity on offense. So
far, however, the benefits have out-

weighed the costs.

So just where does Kenny Wilson fit
into this world of wholesale substitu-
tions? After three games he is averaging
37 minutes played, 21.7 points per
game, and 5.3 rebounds per game. At the
same time, Wilson doesn’t intend to
dominate. “Kenny must improve upon
what he’s done in the past,” says Hussey.
“But if I had a choice between having
Kenny give us what he’s given us in the
past two years and improve while having
four other players in double figures, or
having Kenny score 50 points a game,
you know what I’s chose. I think Kenny
would rather have a winning team than

#

be a dominating player.”
Ensnared in this catch-22 of team

unity vs. personal goals, Wilson must
find a balance. Against Wofford, Wilson
was 2 of 5 from the field in the first half
for a total of 4 points. When Wofford
closed the gap to a basket in the second
half, Wilson turned it on. He was 8 of 9
from the field, 5 of 7 from the line, and
grabbed 4 rebounds. He finished with 25
points. At least in December, Wilson can
expect to have to assume that kind of
leadership.

By position, the Wildcats break

down as a balanced unit. At center, 6-9
Jim McConkey, 6-9 Ted Wolfe, and 6-7
Ken Niebuhr are all capable players. At
the forward spots, 6-4 Wilson, 6-6
Rafael Hernandez, 6-7 Gerry Born, and
6-7 Anthony Tanner can all fill in. The
guard position, however, poses a serious
problem. In 6-5 Tom Franz and 6-3
leaper Frank Johnson, Hussey has up-
perclassmen but not a whole lot of game
experience.

Franz, Davidson’s resident floor
coach, offers a steadying influence and
good passing, but not a lot of scoring.
Hussey will look to freshmen Caryl

. Rocky Kmiecik

Dawson, Chris Heineman, and “Ace”
Tanner for that. Dawson is a quick,
flashy point guard with a flare for the
dazzling. But he makes ‘his share of
freshman mistakes. Heineman’s great
perimeter shooting ability renders him a
shooting guard. In Tanner one can see all
the tools of a great player in the making:
speed, quickness, incredible leaping
ability, and a keen passing eye. Once he
makes the transition to college-level in-
tensity, he will be a great one.

But the watchwords in the backcourt
are youth and inexperience. Con-
sequently, expect to watch Davidson bat-
tle a lot of pressing defenses. But if the
guards can break full-court pressure, as
they did against Duke, the team will have
a better chance of winning.

Some critical areas of the Wildcats’
overall game will be greatly improved in
1983-84. This year’s team will be more
hungry than teams in years past. “They
want to be a successful basketball team,”
Hussey says. This sort of intangible
could carry great importance. Last year
Davidson was 4-6 in games decided by 3
or fewer points. (They were 8-4 in such
contests two years ago.) This hunger
should turn around some of those close
losses. Also, team rebounding should
improve. Unfortunately, Davidson has a
wide rebounding gap to cover if it plans
to implant itself among league leaders in
that category.

Considering the team’s youth, Hus-
sey espouses a coming-of-age approach.
“Regardless of what happens in game
one,” Hussey declares, ‘we will work
hard to be better in game two. Our goal is
to be better in game 15 than in game 10. I
can’t predict any particular finish or
number of wins, but I do think we have a
chance to be an upper-division team.”

Hussey increased his chances of an
upper-division finish with a scheduling a
scheduling coup. Davidson will close its
regular season with five consecutive
Southern Conference games in Johnston

Hussey increased his chances of an
upper-division finish with a scheduling a
scheduling coup. Davidson will close its
regular season with five consecutive
Southern Conference games in Johnston
Gym: Appalachian, East Tennessee,
UT-Chattanooga, Marshall, and West-

ern Carolina.
In order for these games to have any

upward effect on the Cats’ standing,
however, Hussey will have to elicit
maximum performance from the offense
and themselves. As for the offense, Hus-
sey says, “The basic problem is a simple
one. We’re trying to figure out within the
context of the offense itself how to get
people to do the things we can do best.
Kenny Wilson knows how to get the
most out of himself through the offense.”
In short, it’s a process of getting to know
one another.

And as for the team eliciting the most
fram themselves? Well, whether or not
they do that constitutes the mystery. . . .
