14 Friday, March 25, 1983

The Davidsonian

Mens Tennis Romps

By TIM MCGAUGHEY

The men’s tennis team has streaked
to an impressive start, winning five of its
first eight matches. Wins have come over
Atlantic Christian, Westchester State
(Pa.), Pern State, Amherst, and, on
Tuesday, MIT. The only losses have
been to N.C. State, UNC, and The
Citadel.

The team whipped MIT, losing only
one set.

The ladder has shaped up well. Junior
Mark Nottingham is playing at the
number one spot, and sophomore Sedge
Gray will play number 2. The rest of the
ladder consists uf sophomore John Hac-
kett, third; freshman Craig Hall, fourth;
freshman Bob Nichols, fifth; and senior

Victor Taylor, sixth.

Coach Jeff Frank, in his eleventh yar,
heralds the depth of his team. In the
match against MIT, he was able to play
senior Paul Griffith, who scored a
straight-set victory. Others below the top
six, such as Shep Robinson and Allen
Lazenby, also contributed to victory.
Frank says, “If we played with the top
12, we would be one of the top teams in
the nation.”

Injuries have pressed the team’s
depth. Sedge Gray broke an ankle this
winter; John Hackett and Bobby Nichols
have sore shoulders; Tom Ratchford
chipped a bone in his ankle, Victor
Taylor had a knee operation, and Shep
Robinson had a shoulder operation over

the summer. Frank figures “Eleven
years’ worth of injuries are all rolled into
one year.” The depth of the team has ena-
bled it to play well and maintain a good
record.

The crucial test for the team should
come in April. Between April 16-27 the
team will play its four toughest oppo-
nents and four conference meets. The
conference play determines seedings for
the Southern Conference tournament,
held this year in Davidson April 28-30.
The team must do well in that week, and
Frank is optimistic. With three weeks of
good weather and steady play he hopes
that the team can finish third in the con-
ference. As time passes, the youthful
team should improve.

Brad Brechtelsbauer

John Hackett

-——From the Locker Room

Blue Collar Basketball And N.C. State

Coach Jim Valvano and the N.C. State Wolfpack
are carrying a banner. It’s not an ACC (heaven for-
bid) or even a North Carolina (that’s the state, not the
university) flag. Rather, they’re carrying a banner for
“working-class basketball.”

You see, in the Atlantic Coast Conference, the
tinsel-and-glamour capital of collegiate basketball,
N.C. State is the outcast, the po’ folk, the second
class citizen. Along with Maryland, the Wolfpack
forms the blue-collar contingent of the ACC, and
that’s the reputation they’re carrying into the NCAA
championships.

Three schools have dominated most of ACC bas-
ketball over the past decade: Duke, North Carolina,
and Virginia. Once in a great while, Maryland or
N.C. State stands on its tip toes and gets a peek of the
penthouse — Maryland’s 79-80 regular season cham-
pionship, State’s 73-74 championship. (Of the re
maining schools, Wake Forest is an elite citizen with-
out commitment, Clemson has no class, and Georgia
Tech is too young to tell.)

On my first trip to Davidson, in the fall of my
senior year in high school, I stopped for gas at an
Amoco in Greensboro. I mentioned to the attendant I
was from Maryland, and he immediately picked up
on basketball. “Those Maryland and State boys,
they’re the po’ boys in the ACC. They can’t never
make it,” he said.

Al McGuire said it another way, and about his
own blue collar program at Marquette. “For the
dynasties — North Carolina, Indiana, Notre Dame —
it’s not recruiting, it’s just a selection process from
among the best. When you’re at Marquette in the
middle of Milwaukee, with trucks rolling by and four
feet of snow on the ground, now that’s recruiting.”
Such are the rigors of recruiting at N.C. State, and
nearby rivals UNC, UVA, and Duke don’t help mat-
ters.

Basketball doesn’t begin to touch upon the stu-
dent composition of State. State, started primarily as
an agricultural school, is affectionately known as
Moo U among its ACC peers. “Honk if you’re from
Chapel Hill, Moo if y’all from State,” chides one
bumper sticker. NCSU is synonymous with blue col-
lar, redneck U.

The Wolfpack is the underdog of the ACC. Even
lifetime ACC-haters are pulling for the Pack because
they are uncharacteristically ACC — ACC in name

only. The Pack belongs in a hard-nosed, hard-helmet _

conference like the Big East, where the frills are few
and the basketball gritty. There, with Villanova, St.
John’s, and Georgetown, is the blue-collar basketball

Mecca.

But to understand the Wolfpack, one must at first
understand its coach, Jim Valvano. Compare Val-
vano to his mild-mannered, refined counterparts at
Virginia and North Carolina — Terry Holland and
Dean Smith. Valvano is not kin to that kind. Whereas
Smith embroils himself in the mechanics of the game
— the four corners, intricate team defense, etc.—

~Valvano’s basic offensive system is the KISS philos-

ophy: Keep It Simple, Stupid. “Sometimes it works,
sometimes it doesn’t,” the good-naturéd New Yorker
laughs through a thick accent.

A post-game interview with Valvano is anybody
else’s stand-up comedy routine. After the heart-stop-
ping first-round, double-overtime win over Pepper-
dine, Valvano announced that with his team down six
points with under a minute left in the first OT, “I was
ready to put my sneaks on and play myself.” At one
point in the game State, completely out of character,
slowed the tempo. “It worked for the other team; why
won’t it work for us?”

-Valvano keeps matters in perspective. After guid-
ing the Pack to its first ACC title since 1974 in an 81-
78 win over Virginia, he said, “I can’t say this is my
biggest win. When I was head coach at Johns Hop-
kins, we beat Swarthmore College 72-49, when I was
23 in my first year of coaching. I celebrated my brains
out for three weeks.” Can you imagine Terry Holland
saying that?

The team doesn’t end with Valvano. Its
mainstays are three seniors — Thurl Bailey, Sydney
Lowe, and Dereck Whittenburg. All three played to-
gether at De Matha, Washington, D.C.’s high school
basketball powerhouse. Lowe and Whittenburg, the
backcourt tandem, have played together for eight
years, since playground days before De Matha. Most
of the rest of the team — Cozell McQueen, Lorenzo
Charles, Dinky Proctor, etc. — are all from similar
poor backgrounds. Together they form a team that
has to scratch and claw for every ladder rung. They
don’t get all the close calls going their way in a game;
they aren’t likely to make the cover of Sports Illus-
trated once a season; they won’t get the best seeds in
the NCAA tournament. When they play on the road,
they won’t pack the house on their name. Those days
left with David Thompson, the star who led the
Wolfpack to its only national championship, in 1974.
When Valvano recruits an in-state player, he must put
his shoulder to the grindstone to sign him — Dean
Smith need only dial the phone. But, as the enthusias-

tic Wolfpack will tell you, adversity breeds team _ |

unity.

Team unity has led the Wolfpack through the
most remarkable 5-game winning streak this year.
All ree have been post-season games, and a loss is
the efid for the seniors. The five games have been
won by a total of 14 points, and State has expended 3
overtimes in the process. Ringling Brothers Circus
may have to take a back seat. The Streak:

1)NCSU 71, Wake Forest 70 With 4:20 remain-
ing and the score tied 70-70, the Deacons stalled for
one last shot. With :30 seconds left they call timeout
to set it up. Lowe deflects pass, comes up with steal,
:20 left. State takes time out, :10 “Lo” Charles has the
ball, moves to Slam! Alvis Rogers short-circuits at-
tempt with foul and :03 left. Charles misses first free
throw, makes second for game winner. “I was just
testin’ the wind on the first.”

2) NCSU 91, UNC 84 (OT). They enter overtime
tied at 70-70: With 2:00 left, Pack is down 82-76. By
1:35, Whit hits incredible, off-balance, pull-up three-
pointer to pull State to 82-81. Puts Pack ahead with a
great drive for an uncontested layup. Free throws pad
margin.

3)NCSU 81, UVA 78. For all the ACC marbles,
and Ralph wants them. Pack is down 59-51 with
11:30 left, battle back. The seniors are phenomenal,
Ralph is denied.

4JNCSU 69, Pepperdine 67 (2 OT). ACC vs.
WCAC. Game is slow, down-tempo for both. With
1:10 left in first OT, Waves lead by six. State cuts it to
two, Whit on line for 1-and-1. Misses! Cozell gets
bound! (Oh no, he can’t shoot.) Puts it up, rattles
around rim, falls with :03 left. Whit hits 8 of 10 free
throws in 2nd OT, Pack cruises. Didn’t the announ-
cers say this was Sydney’s last game?

4)NCSU 71, UNLV 70. The Runnin’ Rebels were

ranked number one, but the Pack is here to play.
Quick lead. Disintegrates. With 11:40 left and the
Pack down 52-40, the team begins to make its move.
Down the stretch the Rebs miss three one-and-ones.
With :08 left Whit tries 23-footer, T taps, bounds,
puts it in! Unbelicvable! UNLV can’t score, Pack ste-
als upset.

There’s a sort of irony to the name Wolfpack —
they’re the underdogs. Those five wins were all un-
derdog wins. What N.C. State has shown is that bas-
ketball programs that have to work for a living —
blue collar programs that éarn each win the hard way

—— Can survive and do well. Frankly, it’s a reminder I
relished.

