g7 Ry

William

Attwood and His Views

The former Look editor covered a world of topics

By MARVIN OVERBY ’83

William Attwood, the 1983 Woodrow Wilson Vis-
iting Fellow, has spent this past week on campus
speaking on subjects ranging from “U.S. Foreign Poli-
cy” to “Writing, Reporting, and Editing.” A journalist
by profession, and a former diplomat, Attwood en-
joyed a long and successful career that included such
distinguished positions as editor-in-chief of Look mag-.
azine, the United States Ambassador to two African
nations, and, more recently, the publisher and presi-
dent of Newsday, a Long Island newspaper.

_ Attwood began his journalism career in 1946 when
he became a correspondent in the Washington Bureau
of the New York-Herald Tribune. During the next three
years he also served the Tribune as a European corre-
spondant: and as its United Nations correspondant. In
1949, he returned to Europe while working for Colliers
magazine and began writing a nationally syndicated
column. Of his days in Paris, Mr. Attwood comment-
ed: “I was not bored.”

In 1951, Attwood left Colliers to become European
editor for Look magazine. Working for Look until
1961, he became national affairs editor and the foreign
editor.

Active in the 1960 presidential race, Attwood
served as a speechwriter for both Adlai Stevenson and
John F. Kennedy. In 1961, President Kennedy ap-
pointed him United States Ambassador to Guinea. At-
twood remained active in U.S./African diplomacy un-
til 1966, serving successively as Ambasador to Gui-

Auwood Delteves thar Ti +s no longer enough just to
say that ve have to bring down the inflation rate.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983 —

i]
nea, Kenya, and adviser on African Affairs with the
U.S.’s UN mission.

In May 1966, Attwood returned to journalism as
editor-in-chief of Look. In August 1967 he was named
vice-president and director of Cowles Communica-
tions, Inc., Look’s parent company. In 1970 he was
hired as president and publisher of Newsday, and he
became chairman of the board in 1978. Attwood re-
tired from Newsday in July 1979.

Speaking on Tuesday night with Wachovia Visit-
ing Distinguished Professor Lafayette Diggs of Libe-
ria, Attwood addressed “Misconceptions about Afri-
ca.” Attwood favors what he calls a “4F” policy in
Africa. The United States, hé said, must be firm in pro-
tecting its interests, frank in identifying what its inter-
ests are, friendly toward the nations of the continent,
and fair in our aid programs.

Attwood voiced his concern that the U.S. be very
careful how it handles the Republic of South Africa.
Since that country’s apartheid is the “singly most emo-
tional issue on the continent,” should the U.S. support
South Africa, we would alienate the countries of Afri-
ca. This, Attwood suggested, would only help the So-
viet Union.

Attwood said that the two conditions have to be met
to improve the US position in Africa. First, America
must seek to change the perception that it is tacitly sup-
porting the Pretorian rgime by makng investments in
South Africa seem unattractive to American busi-
nesses. Second, the U.S. must push the South Africans
to withdraw from Namibia. Attwood admitted a certain
pessimism about a South African withdrawal, admit-

Drs crire

Williai Atwood dis

Kenva

ting, “I won’t believe it until I see it happening.”

About conditions in the rest of Africa, Attwood is
more “hopeful.” He noted that many countries in A fri-
ca had made a good deal of progress with surprisingly
little disturbances. “There has been amazingly little
bloodshed in Africa,” he said, “especially when com-
pared with this nation’s Civil War.”

‘Africans are seeing that the Marxist-Leninist road
to development is not the best one,” he remarked. The
“Soviets have very little to offer. . . . The Soviets, by
and large, don’t speak French or English or Portuguese
and don’t have the financial strength to give the Afri-
cans the aid they need.”

Attwood spoke on Wednesday afternoon on “Dis-
turbing Trends in US Poitics.”” He enumerated indiffer-
ence, lack of confidence in political institutions, lack
of knowledge about political institutions and a feeling
of individual impotnce as the most disturbing develop-
ments in American politics.

Fielding questions on a variety of issues, Attwood
predictd that the 1984 presidential election would fea-
ture Hoawrd Baker versus “Fritz” Mondale (“Reagan
won't run again unless there is a big upturn in the econ-
omy’’). Quoting an unnamed political commenter, he
said that “Mondale’s biggest problem will be that his
name sounds like a suburb of Los Angeles.”

Attwood also said that the US must find some-
where a political leader who will get the country out of
the current “crushing arms race” and the resurgent cold
war. “It is no longer enough,” he maintained, “just to
say we have to bring down the inflation rate.”

Among Attwood’s achievements during his career
as journalist and diplomat are his visits to over 70coun-
tries, his trip to China in 1971, and his interviews with
Prince Sihanouk of Cambodia and Premier Chou En-
Lei of the People’s Republic of China. He has pub-
lished four books and has received the National Head-
liners Club Award, the George Pold Memorial Award,
and the Page One Award for excellence in journalism.

19
