4... Friday, October 21, 1983/The Davidsonian _

McDermont Delivers Apocalyptic Death Speech —

\

By DAVID RESNIK

“1 believe that we should experience
our own lives in the context of being per-

manently afflicted, that is, of being ter- .

minal.”
—John McDermont

Visiting scholar John..McDermont
delivered an apocalyptic speech on the

topic Of death to a stunned audience at:

4:00 in the 900 room Monday.

McDermont also spoke on Bioethics
at 11:00 in Philosophy Professor Lance
Stell’s Ethics class, and on Karl Marx
and John Dewey at 1:00 in Stell’s Politi-
cal Philosophy class. ,

Ranging from anger to sadness, from
joy to sheer revulsion, McDermont
closed his 900 room address by telling
everyone to “Celebrate!” '

The Immanence of Death

The immanence of death shadows

life, though many people try to suppress

it; said McDermont.

“Our great neurosis is history,” said
McDermont, “whereby we attempt to
transcend- the Gardens of time and pro-
ject ourselves as having meaning beyond
our own lives.”

For McDermont, “the fundamental
question is whether there is a medium
way between the self-deception of im-
mortality, on the one hand, and the radi-
cal commitment to the moment, on the
other hand.”

Rather than repressing death,
McDermont believes that “‘a life lived in
the shadow of our own death is one
which can prehend the scents of the most
subtle of message, namely those in-
tended only for creatures who risk living
within the rhythm of time.”

McDermont believes that the des-
criptive term for the human condition is
‘transiency,’ because we are persons on a
journey in a “cosmic abyss.” “It is the
quality of the journey that counts” con-

tends McDermont, “not the end in view
and certainly not the claim that we > have
journeyed.”

Trying to hold on to memories only
numbs the quality of the journey: Scraps
and memoribilia .. . act as personal
clots in the onrushing flow of our lives.”

Before concluding, McDermont re-

vealed his philosophy of time: “I believe
that time is sacred because human history
has so endowed it, with our suffering,
our commitments, and with our anticipa-
tions.”

During the course of his speech
McDermont cited passages from Wil-
liam James, John Dewey, Albert Camus,
Soren Kierkgaard, and Norman O.
Brown.

Background

McDermont was born and raised in
New York City. He graduated from Saint
Francis College in 1953 with a B.A. in
Philosophy. He earned an M.A. in Phi-
tosophy from Fordham University in

1954 and completed his Ph.D.’ at For-
dham in 1959.

He taught Latin and English at
Loghlin High School from 1953-1954
and Philosophy and English at Saint
Francis College from 1954-1957.
McDermont taught Philosophy at
Queens College, New York from 1956-
1957. McDermont joined the faculty at
Texas A & M University in 1977 as the
Head of the Department of Philosophy
and Humanities and held his position
until 1981.

McDermont is married to Virginia P.
McDermont. They have five children:
Marise (29), Michele (28), David (27),
Brian (26), Tara (22).

His major fields of study are Ameri-
can Philososophy, Philosophy of Cul-
ture, Environmental Aesthetics, Medical
Humanities, History of Philosophy . He
has written five books and is working on
three more.

Colin Stamp Presents Gift From Dr. Schweitzer

By ANDREW WILSON
“Through the control we now have to
control a nature which we always
thought uncontrollable, we have become
a race of supermen.” So said Albert
Schweitzer at an address in Frankfurt in
1951. Schweitzer’s life has served as a
paradigm for many aspiring humanists,

and Colin Stamp is no exception.
The Honorable Colin Stamp, writer,
broadcaster, film producer and lecturer
from London, appeared before a capacity

900 Room crowd Wednesday evening to -

present the first public showing of his re-
vised illustrated lecture on the life of Al-
bert Schweitzer entitled “A Gift from
Doctor Schweitzer.”

‘Stamp’s visit included a 21-minute
tape and slide production and included
reminiscences of his connection with the
German-born philanthropist whose med-
ical accomplishments in Africa earned
him both a Nobel Peace Prize and the
apellation “the greatest Christian since
Christ.”

Schweitzer’s critical
ranged from naive adulation to muckrak-
ing defamation during his 90-year life.
Stamp tried to temper his admiration for
Schweitzer with’ a retrosective objec-
tivism but admits that Schweitzer’s life
and works exhibit a great influence on his
own.

Schweitzer grew up in the German
village of Giinsbach in the Alsace region
as a privileged and gifted child. Stamp’s
slides of the town, family photographs
rendered an clear impresssion of
Schweitzer’s formative years.

Schweitzer’s family soon recognized
his brightness:and extraordinary musical
ability. As an adolescent Schweitzer
toured the region giving organ recitals
and went ‘on to university-to receive doc-
torates in philosophy, religion, and
music. Schweitzer decided to perfect his
mind until the age of 30; at which time he

- would transfer his skills to his hands and
* serve less fortunate mankind. His sense
of  sesipeaemee » the human race was
deep seated.

reputation —

Communications

Colin Stamp

Seeingthe statue of an enslaved black
man strengthened Schweitzer’s resolve
to devote his life to those less fortunate
than himself. At age 30 he attained his
fourth doctorate, this time in medicine.
Much to his family’s chagrin he em-
barked for Lambarené, Africa to estab-
lish a jungle hospital. The remainder of
his life is.paradoxically well known des-
pite his seclusion.

Schweitzer’s third world humanism
brought him much recognition, though
his European ties were severed during
World War II. Schweitzer’s philosophy
of helping people pioneered what is now
fashionably called. “intermediate tech-
nology.” Schwietzer’s love for building
and design became manifest in the hospi-

.tal’s simple and functional appearance.

Animals roamed freely about the spa-
cious compound where the patients’
families gathered and prepared meals.

During the sixties Schweitzer’s inter-
vention in the lives of the natives was
censured by the anti-colonialist groups
who. were angry with America’s involve-
ment in. Vietnam and other underde-
veloped areas. Few of these detractors,.
however, realized that Schweitzer was
one of the first. outspoken opponents of
nuclear proliferation.

~ Born in. 1917,'Colin Stamp is the.
youngest son of the first Baron Stamp of
Shortlands. After graduating in English
Literature and Economics from. Queens

College, Cambridge, Stamp joined the
Royal Naval Reserve and _ served
throughout World War II as a navigation
officer. After the war and until 1977
Stamp worked for American Express,
opening their South African office and
then returning to London to become
European Director of Marketing Ser-

vices.

Since his retirement, Stamp’s interest
in both Schweitzer and audio-visual ex-
perimentation has peaked. Wednesday
night’s presentation was Stamp’s second
visit to Davidson in two years. Stamp
first became aquainted with Davidson
when his son visited as a Rusk scholar.

The Bicycle Shop
3844 E. Independence Blvd.
535-0255.

Ne Be Re

Picking up bicycles
that need to be repaired

In front of Richardson Dorm
between 12:00 and | p.m.
on Oct. 26

They will be returned Nov. 2

Any questions, please call
Free pick-up and delivery

will repatt all brands

If you need ae parts or accessories, |
let_us know and we'll bring them when
a we return your bike

