4 Friday, November 11, 1983/The Davidsonian

JYA Programs Offer International Education

By FRANCES PALMER
and SHANNON ANDERSON

Editor's note: This is the second of two parts on student
opportunities to study abroad while attending Davidson.

Marburg

Established at the same time as the JYA Montpellier
program, the JYA Germany program is located at the
Philipps University in Marburg. Marburg is situated 50
miles north of Frankfurt in the upper Lahn Valley. The
area around Marburg lies on the southern fringe of the
largest contiguously forested area in West Germany.

Philipps Universitat was founded in 1525 as the
world’s first Protestant university and offers courses in
practically every academic discipline. A new university
library, opened in 1967, houses over half a million vol-
umes.

In basic structure, the Marburg program is quite
similar to that of Montpellier. The program is limited to
15 students of any major; a resident advisor accompanies
this group also. Marburg students also participate in an
intensive language course before joining regular Ger-
man students in class around October 15.

The winter semester takes place from October 15 to
February 15 with a Christmas break of three to four
weeks. Students again vacation or research individually
from February 15-April 15. The summer semester com-
mences on April 15 and concludes on July 15.

Unlike French students, the German students live in
university apartments in single-occupancy rooms.
Kitchen facilities available to students on each floor.
Dorms are fully coeducational with men and women as-
signed on a random basis but with Davidson students as-
signed to the same rooms from year to year in order to
mix effectively with German students.

German meals, including German beer, soft drinks,
and coffee, are available to students in the cafeteria for
about $1.50. The Marburg area also hosts numerous res-
taurants.

Extra-curriculars in Marburg include availability of
modern sports facilities, hiking trails, musical groups,
and volunteer work with service organizations.

The estimated cost of the program, like Montpellier,
is comparable to that of a year at Davison. Financial aid

students are eligible to continue receiving aid.
Art History in France

During the spring term of even-numbered years, a
qualified group of sophomores and seniors participates
in an art history seminar. The program does not stipulate
majors; it exposes students to various art treasures
throughout Western Europe.

Students spend the first four weeks of the term in
Paris studying 19th-century painting. The remainder of
the program focuses on religious architecture of
medieval France, with special attention to the cathedral
of Chartres.

In addition to Davidson tuition, students pay an extra
fee for housing and travel expenses.

Interested students should contact art professor
Larry Ligo for more details.

Classics Abroad

Each spring a maximum of twelve Davidson sopho-
mores and juniors participate in a Classics Abroad semi-
nar in cities including Athens, Delphi, Pompeii, Rome,
and Florence. The course, having no prerequisites, sur-
veys Greco-Roman civilization from the Stone Age
through the Italian Renaissance.

Costs include Davidson tuition and a fee to cover liv-
ing and travel expenses.

Classics professor George Labban can provide
further information.

Spain or Mexico

In alternate years trips are offered during spring term
to Spain and Mexico for qualified students who want to
study in a Spanish-speaking country.

During the first part of the term in Spain, students
study major sites from Spain’s Roman, medieval Chris-
tian, Moorish, and Jewish traditions. Students then
study Spanish language, literature, and civilization at
the University of Madrid while living in homes in the
area.

Students on the Mexico trip also travel while learn-
ing about the rich Spanish and Aztec heritage. The
Mexico students concentrate on the Spanish language
and modern civilization.

A Davidson advisor accompanies each group, and
both trips earn students three course credits. With spe-
cial arrangements one of the credits can be an indepen-
dent study for credit from a department other than

Spanish.

The cost for the program is Davidson’s comprehen-
sive fee plus any additional costs for program related ac-
tivities and round trip transportation to the country of
study. Spanish professor Lois Kemp can provide addi-
tional information. ;

India

Each fall Davidson and UNCC sponsor a 14-week
trip of study and travel in India. The students spend eight
weeks studying the language, politics, religion, and so-
ciety of Madras where they also prepare a research pro-
ject. The remaining weeks the advisor (from Davidson
or UNCC) and Archaeological Survey of India lead tra-
vel to sites of importance through the country.

Students are limited to those juniors and seniors
wishing to earn three course credits in another country.
Interested students should contact South Asian Studies
professor Job Thomas.

Cambridge

Each summer the Departments of English and His-
tory sponsor a six—week program at Wolfson College of
Cambridge University. These departments select 30
qualified rising juniors and seniors of any major to par-
ticipate in this unique study of a particular period of En-
glish history and literature.

Students live at Wolfson College and eat at the col-
lege commons while taking courses from dons of the
Cambridge, Oxford, and London. Participants earn one
credit in English and one in history. A Davidson profes-
sor acts as resident director each year.

History professor Malcolm Lester can provide inter-
‘ested students with further information.

Other Study Opportunities

Davidson students are not restricted to these pro-
grams, however. Through the international education
office, students can learn about numerous programs
through other colleges and universities.

Study abroad can indeed benefit a well-rounded edu-
cation as both a personal and global experience. As Sut-
ton said, “A student may not always love the culture and
habits of his host country, but he will generally come to
understand and tolerate the ‘natives’ and their ‘strange’
ways. This tolerance of and appreciation for things dif-
ferent from our own is the key to a more humane soci-
ety.”

continued from pare! Credit-Hours

agree. For them, the hours would pro-
vide some compensation for the extra lab
hours. Williamson said the vote “put us
back to square one. It is important to dif-
ferentiate credit.”

Some speculate that the faculty de-
feated the measure because it wanted to

remove a major obstacle to implement-
ing a semester system. Rejecting credit
hours eliminates many potential prob-
lems, but at the same time, opposing
credit hours might harm the implementa-
tion of semesters.
wanted a semester calendar than a semes-

said.

ter calendar and credit hours,” French

stripped the semester system of all its

Others felt that defeating credit hours

“Probably more

663-3030
225 S. Broad St.
Mooresville

KING OF PIZZA

FAMILY NIGHT

Every Monday Night
5 To 10

PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA *
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE Address

FREE

major university

systems

MBA
Vanderbilt

Consider a Masters in Business Administration
Vanderbilt University’s Graduate Schoo! of Management Offers:
® an opportunity to study at a prestigious

@a challenging two year, full time MBA
program for tomorrow's business leaders
® concentrated study and practical experi-
ence in accounting, finance, marketing,
organizational behavior, operations man-
agement, and management information

Bhigh starting salaries and outstanding
placemen: opportunities with major cor-
sporations throughout the U.S.

® scholarships for proven academic achiev-

Please send me information concerning Vanderbilt's Graduate School of Management.

benefits.

§ financial assistance for students demon-
* stratingneed
® an opportunity to live and study in a thriv-
ing business, entertainment, and cultural
center of the mid-South

For information and an application write or
phone:
Office of Admission, Room 600
Owen Graduate School of
Management
Vanderbilt University
Nashville, Tennessee 37203
® (615) 322-6469

a

City

re
State

Telephone ( )

Zip

Undergraduate College or University

Graduation Date
cd

