e

ale of

ike Sorrentino

He Went from Being a Basketball Star to a Modern-day Thoreau,
and Nowhere Along the Way Did He Keep Pace with His Companions

Ry STEVE SOUD ’84

“If a man does not keep pace with his

companions, perhaps it is because he
hears a different drummer.”

—Henry David Thoreau

from Walden, or Life in the Woods

In thirty years of life, Mike Sorrenti-
no has never really fallen into a particu-
lar route or beaten path. From his years
as number 13 on the Davidson basket-
ball teams of the early 1970s to his
months in a treehouse as a sort of mod-
ern-day Thoreau, Mike Sorrentino has
never followed evenly the pace of his
companions. He is one of few Davidson
graduates—or human beings, for that
matter—who has had the courage to live
out his convictions.

Peering into this man’s life is like
gently separating and softly prying apart
the petals of an enigmatic rosebud. He
came to Davidson from.a New York
City background that everyone knew
about but few understood. As a record-
setting basketball player, he rose to the
pinnacle of achievement and then ques-
tioned its foundation. After four years
of aimless, post-graduation meandering
across Europe, he returned to Davidson
and lived in a lonely, secluded tree-
house. For now, at least, he has come to
an unexpected resting place working in
a Durham bakery.

Perhaps, after his years of wander-
ing and homelessness, Sorrentino, like
Thoreau, has learned at the very least
that “if one advances confidently in the
direction of his dreams, and endeavors
to live the life which he has imagined,
he will meet with a success unexpected
in common hours.”

Basketball and its dreams of glory
saturated his childhood. Like thousands
of New York City schoolchildren, he
whiled away the lazy summer days of
his boyhood playing the city game.

But for years he sought to live out
his dreams. He played basketball at
New York powerhouse Archbishop
Molloy High School. He was never a
star; he didn’t even start until his senior
year. That year Molloy went 22-1 and
won the Catholic league championship.

“My coach in high school took no-
thing less from us but perfection,” Sor-
rentino once told a reporter for the Char-
lotte Observer. “If I played bad, I went
home and locked myself in my room,
threw temper tantrums, and kicked
chairs. I’d yell at my parents and things
like that. But that didn’t settle anything.
It didn’t make me play any better the
next time. But that’s the way I felt about
basketball. It meant everything to me.”

Much to Sorrentino’s frustration, he
was an afterthought to college recruit-
ers. Rather, classmate Brian Winters
drew their attention. Frank McGuire,
who had lured Molloy stars Kevin Joyce
and Bob Carver to South Carolina the

18

previous year, returned to New York in
the spring of 1970 and signed Winters.

In June, Sorrentino followed the
paths of Molloy alumni Brian Adrian
and Mike Maloy as he signed with Da-
vidson. “I thought maybe I could be a
Star at a small school,” he mused later.

NCAA regulations of the time re-
quired that freshmen sit out their first
year. Playing for Davidson’s freshman
team, Sorrentino averaged 15.4 ppg and
11 assists per game at his point guard
position.

After Sorrentino’s freshman perfor-
mance had established him as a future
Wildcat star, he returned home for the
summer and did some self-evaluation.
“When I went back home, I played at
the playgrounds and never got chance to
touch the ball. In Davidson, I was a big
man, in New York, I was nothing,” he
explained. “That’s when I realized that
I’d never be really great in basketball.
Then it struck me that maybe all the
work had been for nothing.”

Sorrentino’s soul-searching held
over into his sophomore year, and it
greatly affected his play in the early go-
ing. In a January, 1972 interview pub-
lished in the Observer, he admitted, “I
haven’t been trying in practice and I
know it. Coach Holland knows it, and I
guess the players know it. But the play-
ers are great, they’re letting me work
out this problem by myself. Right now,
I’m hurting the rest of the team, and that
isn’t fair to them.”

The problem ran deep. He was
questioning his own rationale for play-
ing the game which had dominated a
large portion of his life. ““There’s so
many things I could be doing with my
life right now,” he said. “I really think I
could contribute more to a society than
playing basketball.”

He went on, “Maybe I’m just tired

~ of all the things that go along with play-

ing basketball. You know, all the disci-
pline and things like that. I think basket-
ball should be fun, and right now it isn’t
to me. This is something I’ve thought
out all by myself. And it’s bothered me
a lot. It’s kept me awake at night, fol-
lowed me into the classroom, and hurt
me in practice.”

His own questions were not the only
matter at stake in his self-inquiry. Along
with his questions coincided team un-
rest that was symptomatic of the turbu-
lent times. There was a major team
squabble over hair length. “If a player
has a disagreement,” Sorrentino once
said, “I think he should be able to speak
his mind. And the length of someone’s
hair doesn’t dictate how he’ll play bas-
ketball. Take those VMI players, for in-
stance. They all have real short hair and
can’t play that well.

“T.don’t think that any of us want to
cause trouble. We’re just trying to be
ourselves and have fun.”

Unfortunately, at that time in Sor-
rentino’s life, fun came less often and in
smaller doses than he might have liked.
Fun was lacking from his court life in
such great quantities that he seriously
considered quitting basketball altogeth-
er. It meant quitting his dreams. “I’ve
thought about it several times,” he ad-
mitted. “But I don’t know if I could just
walk off the court and turn my back on
all I’ve worked for. But again, if I ever
really decide that it isn’t really worth the
effort anymore, then I'll give it up for
good. If I keep playing, it will have to be
100 per cent. That’s the way it has to
be.”

If basketball wasn’t going well for
Sorrentino at that time, the rest of his
college life was. As a freshman he had
received the nickname “Bruno” Sorren-
tino after a professional wrestler named
Bruno San Martino. Later he declared
himself an English major and became
very active in the desegregation and

Sorrentino’ s aerie:

THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983 —

coeducation movements at Davidson.
He was one of a “group of students
here at the time who were very interest-
ed in social questions and very interest-
ed in making an outreach,” English Pro-
fessor Tony Abbott remembers. Mike
Sorrentino was an individual. He loved
the outdoors and often slept out. “Mike
was more of an ‘Outward Bound’ type.
It was a very colorful crowd here then,”
Abbott says now.
But it was the very fact that Sorrenti-

no was so “inward bound” that enabled.

him to work out his troubles with bas-
ketball. When he did, he bettered his
own vow of either quitting or giving 100
per cent by giving 110 per cent. He
eared a reputation as an intense player
and fierce competitor. At the same time,
he was able to laugh off the nights he

played poorly.

In his first two years as a starter, the
team went 37-18. In his sophomore sea-

by Anderson Scott '84
