Friday, September 16, 1983/The Davidsonian

Dry Weather Summons Ghost Of Chambers -

a ‘ote suden crosses she outline af the Old Chambers building which burnéin wn 1921

By Peggy Pierotti

is ; -
, by TED SON eye

op oe ,
one-quarter of a million dollars. Part of the money was

“Cirious fieehpnen have zz zzled, looks at Cham- used to build Chambers Hall [completed in 1860].” He

bers’ Jawn as feed rushed | drouplit andun- adds, “The contribution made Davidson the richest col-
thas brought shetatide lege south of Princeton at the time.”

p ; a Chambers served quite a different purpose than it

2 the ghost of Mr. does now. The Davidson College Bulletin (December,

Chambers himself but, actually: ‘of: the Qld Chambers 1921) described the features of the-admired building: it

building which ‘burned over Sixty yeatsdgo. According housed over 130 students; contained the ROTC head-

to College Historian Chalmers Davidsn, “One can usu-
ally’see the’ markings in the: grass where. the four Jarge

columns of Old Chambers stood. But because of the long *.

drought we've had, you ta
buildings” as well as the p

‘ Davidsomexplains that’ r Maxwell was a wealthy
North Caroling: merchant: wi 0 ‘willed Davidson College

be the ‘outline. of whole

Ground Broken For
New Post Office

By STEPHEN-MANK

the restaurant. ‘““We’re moving because

quarters; contained five classrooms, two museums,:de-
partments of the Old Union Library,the physics lab, and
the large Commencement Auditorium Hall. The Bulletin
wrote that “the building was most imposing in its three-

story height, with a cupola still more commanding in

- elevation and'entrance adorned with four massive Do-

rian pillars.”

Davidson explains that some fun-loving students
were responsible for the destruction of Old Chambers.
“Students liked to see flames go up the spiral staircase.
There was a constant draft in the building. Students liked
to catch papers on fire and watch them come up the
stairs.” However, on. November 21, 1921, the game ab-

' tuptly ended as Chambers caught fire. .

According to The Charlotte News (July 27, 1981),
“Davidson had no organized fire department then and
the Mooresville departrnent couldn’t get through on the
roads that were under construction. When. Charlotte’s
mayor phoned to offer his help it was too late.” In the
same article, Mary Beaty is quoted to have written,
“Only the outer walls and four immense columns were
standing when College President W.J. Martin, ashes
still in his hair, had a bugler summon the students to
gather near the old well.” These structures are responsi- —
ble for the appearance of the phantom.

In an article by Davidson, Lucy Martin Currie (Mrs.
Frontis Johnston) relates her reaction to the fire: “The
fire cast a weird light over everything. Later we learned
that people over twenty miles away had seen the glow.
The old building had been the heart of the college and
when it went, it seemed as if the whole college would
crumble to pieces.”

But these fears were allayed. The Davidson. College
Bulletin (Sept. 1, 1922) relates that “the Executive Com-
mittee of the College met at Davidson a few days after
the fire and resolved to conduct a campaign at the earliest
possible date to raise funds.to build a greater and better
Chambers Hall.”

Davidson adds that “with the help of a major fund
through a Rockefeller Foundation, the new Chambers
building was built in 1929.”

Student and faculty opinion vary as to why the
“ghost” exists (one freshman admitted to “have never

noticed. it before”). One anonymous freshman thought

“that a-senior class. burned its. graduation’ year, on :the
lawn.” In the Charlotte News (July 27; 1981), Davidson

- Professor of Physics Larry Cain said “it may be that the

old columns packed the earth down so much that during
hot, dry spells the grass thins on the area forming an out-
line.”

JUNIORS AND SENIORS
EARN OVER $1000 PER MONTH

If you are a math, physics, chemistry or engineering major with a “B”
average or better, earn over $1000.00 per month through your junior

The foundation was laid for the new -and-senior years. .. summers included! The Navy's NUPOC (Nuclear.

Davidson post office September 7.

The joint venture between the post
office and the town of Davidson entered
the building stages this summer amid
some controversy.

The new building will many modern
conveniences the old one lacked, includ-
ing larger facilities and new key-lock
boxes instead of the present combination
type.

“We're sure looking forward to it,”
explained postmaster John Fisher. “Fi-
nally we’ll be able to handle everyone’s
needs.”

But some students are not quite so en-
thusiastic about the changes. Juniof Rob
‘McCormick condemned the change say-
_ing,. “I resent haying .to.walk.that extra
distance.”

Other students find fault with the new
key locks. “It’s easier to forget a key than
it is a combination,” said freshman Tim
Nieldon.

Bob Johnson, owner of Peregrine
House, denied rumors that the post office
move will necessitate the destruction of

we “need larger facilities,” Johnson
explained.

“Despite the © rumors, many”

townspeople are excited about the move.
Irene Blackwell; head of the Town Ap-
pearance Committee and owner of the
Village Store, said, “The new Post Of-
fice will provide the impetus for im-
provement in the Davidson Communi-
ty.”

The post office agreed to move if a
sidewalk were built behind the Main
Street shops and thdt area were im-
proved, according to Blackwell. “Every-
one is cooperative about the venture be-
cause it means improvement *for the
town,” she said.

The community is also excited be-
cause the post office will bring students
off campus. Betty Johnson, co-owner of
Peregrine House, pointed out, “The new
building will bring students into the cen-
ter of town.”

The post office will be replaced by
the student book store currently located
in the Grey Student Union basement.

Propulsion Officer) Collegiate Program is looking for qualified indi-
viduals. Other benefits include:

***$3000 cash bonus immediately upon acceptance into program
***$22,000 starting salary—$40,000-plus after just four years
***FREE Medical/Dental care and many other TAX FREE benefits
*#*#30 days PAID annual vacation

***1 year graduate level training

***immediate responsibility

***Valuable engineering experience

***Education benefits

***Job security with fast promotions

If you're interested in finding out more, see the Navy Officer Pro-
grams Team, they’Il be on campus 20-22 September at the Student
Union. \f you can’t make it, send your resume or transcripts to: =

v7

ROY SARVIS

‘U.S. NAVY OFFICER PROGRAMS |

1001 Navaho Dr.
Raleigh, NC 27609
Or call 1-800-662-7231
9 am -3 pm, MON-THURS

