ansitiion President Spencer's 15 years at Davidson

Do you think Davidson’s admission policies will
ever become sex-blind?

I think they would if the quality of the College or
the student body were threatened by a policy which is
not sex-blind.

What do you see in the future for self-selection?
Do you think the system has been successful? Ade-
quate?

I think it has been successful in one basic sense.
Students today of course don’t have much of a way of
judging about what it was like before. But before the
late sixties, when the Davidson fraternity system was
probably at its height, about 85 percent of the freshmen
class pledged fraternities, about 15 percent did not
plege, and they looked upon themselves in many in-
stances as what they called “social illiterates.” And we
had a very divided campus in that respect. It always
seemed to me, and I saw this as a student, and I saw this
when I as dean of students, it always seemed to me that
it didn’t make a great deal of sense to go through a very

Photo By Jeff Mann

cer Years |

rigid selection process in the admissions office, bring
in those who were considered by the students to be fine
students for our student body, and then say to 15 per-
cent of them “you’re not acceptable,” particularly to
Say it in a person’s freshman year, when students are
very conscious of making it through and trying to stay
on top of things. It’s a very serious refection when that
kind of system operates. Now you will get the argu-
ment from-a lot-of people ‘who enjoyed the fraternity
system, as I did; that, well, this is the way the world is
and people have got to get used to being rejected, in
competition with others, etc. It’s a valid argument in a
way, but it’s interesting that I never heard anybody
who didn’t get a bid advance that argument.

So a lot of people were hurt by the old system. Con-
sequently, when we went to the new system, and I
might say that that was partly because the fraternity
system just fell apart here, in the late sixties, partly be-
cause the fraternities were not flexible enought to ad-
mit minority students, and one of the rocks on which
the fraternity system here founded, was the unwilling-
ness of the nationals to take black students. But when it
did change, at least we got a system in which that kind
of formal exclusion was not practised. and in that sense
I think it was successful. It does bother me that we’ ve
tended to go back toward exclusivism, in such a way
that I think studetns can still be, still feel the kind of re-
jection that they did earlier, though not formally, and
that’s a gain. But I would like to think that the self-se-
lection system would work in principle. I’m not sure
that we’re at that point right now.

If self-selection does not work in practice, what
can we do to improve it? .

I’m not saying that it isn’t necessarily working, I’m
not sure it’s working to its maximum potential. I think
there are flaws in it; nothing is perfect, and it may be

that there is no way to have a completely perfect sys- —

tem. But in terms of doing something about it, I think
that it has to be looked at by students themselves, and
that students themselves have to be behind any changes
that are made. I don’t like to think of changes being im-
posed necessarily from above.

So, if the students decided to change the self-se-
lection system, you would be in favor of it?

I would be in favor of it if it did not go in the direc-
tion of a formal exclusion system. Let me say one more
thing about this. I was a fraternity man myself, I am not
anti-fraternity. At a big place it makes little difference
as to whether a person belongs to a fraternity or not.
But when you have a situation, as we did, where 85
percent do and 15 percent do not, it’s pretty tough for
the outs.

Do you think Davidson should increase its en-

roliment or leave it the same? .

Well, as you know, we have built our general facil-
ities, such as the library, commons, for an eventual to-
tal of 1600. I would think it would be unwise to in-
crease to that figure at a time when the demographic
trends are downward for 18 year olds, because I’m
more concerned about quality than quantity.

Do you think Davidson should increase its mi-
nority recruitment? —

Well we recruit very hard for minorities, and when
you say...

Maybe I could rephrase it. Would you like to see
more minorities at Davidson?

Yes, I would.

What about Northeastern and non-regional re-
cruitment?

I’m not as concerned about geographical represen-
tation, though I think we’ve gotten to a pretty good
point. In Davidson’s history there has often been an ar-
gument whether we should be a regional college or a
national college. It seems to me that those two aren’t
mutually exclusive. Our inner circle is the state of
North Carolina, our second circle is the region, and our
third circle is national.

Would you like to see Davidson continue its
committment to international studies?

Very definitely. I think we ought to increase that
committment. One of the disappointments to me is that
we haven’t moved as fast or as far in that area.

Do you think Davidson will benefit from the
switch back to a semester system?

Both systems have their advantages and disadvan-
tages. My personal preference is for the semester sys-
tem.

Do you think there is enough student and faculty
input into trustee decisions? Should there be more?

If you look at this in terms of the history of the Col-
lege I think you will find that students now have a lot
more to say. Decisions are not being made behind our
backs, and if there is a strong opinion about some
issue, the trustees are willing to listen.

I don’t mean to badger you, but the faculty and
students have come out strongly in favor of equal ac-
cess admissions, and the trustees haven’t done any-
thing.

I’m not sure the students are + for it. There hasn’t
been any definitive, accurate student poll yet.

Okay. But, if the faculty and students both came
out strongly in favor of equal access admissions, do
you think the trustees would and should take it into
consideration?

I think they would and should take it into consider-
ation.

men’s dorms.” The faculty shared his objections and
rejected the proposal in May.

By May,:1970, self scheduled exams were fairly
regular. Dr. ‘Spencer stood strongly in favor of them,
despite sonte:- faculty oppositon. 7

1970-71

A radical change, the on-campus sale of beer was a
matter of debate towards the end of 1971. In October,
President Spencer was quoted as saying, “I do not con-
sider it necessary or desirable for the college to sell al-
coholic beverages.” Despite his:objections; the.sale of
beer was approved:.In December, 1971, after the deci-
sion, Spencer had a change of heart. “I think the sale of
beer on campus is-a long-overdue reform.” This new
position had'the disapproval of C. Shaw Smith but the
Support of the students and Trustees. .

: 1971-73

“The controversy over beer was not the major issue
of the 1971-72 school year. On April 3, 1972, the Edu-
cational Policy Committee approved coeducation.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February.1983.—

Within the next month, it received faculty and trustee
approval. Dr. Spencer viewed the transformation as “a
step in the right direction.”

«1974.

The arrival of more than a negligible number of
women at Davidson in September, 1974 coincided
with the opening of the E.H. Little Library, the first
WDAV broadcast, and the institution of “coffee and
cokes.”

Unfortunately, along with these beginnings were

troubled:fimancial times. Vice. President for Financial

Affairs C. David Cornell, who had recently resigned,
held a less than « ic view:-*¥ou look at "76 and
beyond and it’s a great big.question mark.”

Dr. Spencer managed to incur the fury of many stu-
dents when, in November, 1974, he censored an issue
of Quips and Cranks. With trustee support, he banned
a picture of male genitalia and two instances of profani-
ty. After the proper “corrections” were made, the year-
book was distributed.

During this same school year, controversy was
brewing over the question of requiring “Christian com-
mittment” for tenure. No action was taken by Spencer

or the trustees, but the controversy did intlicate strong

sentiment.in both camps. WS
A $1.1 million grant for the improvement of Martin
Chemistry Building closed out a year marked by the in-

" teresting combination of financial and ethical problems

and structural improvements.

A relatively uneventful year followed, marked
mainly by the opening of the Taverne Crow, the 900
Room: Preyer Infirmary was renovated. that year and
Rusk House opened.

1975-77

Perhaps the 1975-76 academic year was the lull be-

fore the storm. In April 1977, one of the most contro-

versial events of Spencer’s 15 years occurred.
Dr. Ronald Lindon had been chosen unanimously

( Continued on page 15)

11

a ar 2) ‘Vb
