The Davidsonian

i eeeeeeeeeeeneeaee

Friday, March 25, 1983 17

AStatement of Faith

Keith Revell

Consider the atheist. He does not believe in God be-
cause he has no need or reason to do so. Don’t twist him
psychologically and claim that he substitutes reason or
science or politics for God because that is untrue. He
does not understand the universe perfectly, but then he
does not need to. An existentialist he is not. He loves
humankind but is not obsessed with humanity. There is
nothing that he holds so dearly that it would destroy him
to lose it: he is spiritually self-sufficient. Life is transient
and void of any meaning other than the temporal mean-
ing he gives to it: All that is solid melts into air. He does
aot delude or blind himself with misconceptions of his
self-worth or power, accepting his fallibility while con-
stantly striving to overcome his limitations. He is not
cold or without compassion, nor is he amoral. Think of
him as a realist: thoughtful, optimistic, and with abso-
lutely no need or desire for God in his life.

Faith confounds me. Nowadays, Christians are so
willy-nilly and subjective in their beliefs that the idea of
an objective transcendent reality has all but disappeared.
Mish-mash pantheism has replaced the concept of God;
and Truth is lost in the search for something everyone
can believe in. Faith, in the religious sense, seems too
nebulous a concept to be used as frequently as it is. To
call someone “faithful” is like calling him “good” or
“nice”: the terms are so general that they border on
meaninglessness. I contend that only the atheist can be
called faithful. That is not to say that he has faith; rather I
submit that he alone has the possibility of attaining true
faith because he alone is free. Freedom is the key to faith
as Jesus spoke of it, and no one can have faith except by
free choice. If I hold a gun.to your, head and command
you to have faith in Jesus on threat of death, few would
believe you if you suddenly proclaimed yourself a Chris-

tian. Quite to the contrary, the reason behind your proc-
lamation is all too clear: you are preserving your life, not
acting faithfully. Your conversion has nothing to do with
faith. It is a calculated, reasonable decision to protect
yourself.

I direct your attention to Dostoevski’s “The Grand
Inquisitor.” The Inquisitor’s address centers around the
idea of freedom. Christ, he says, refused to take human
freedom, wishing instead for humans to love Him freely.
“Thou didst not come down from the Cross when they
shouted to Thee, mocking and reviling Thee, ’Come
down from the Cross and we will believe Thou art He.’
Thou didst not come down, for again Thou wouldst not
enslave man by a miracle, and didst crave faith given
freely, not based on miracle. Thou didst crave free love
and not the base raptures of the slave before the night that
has overawed him forever” (p. 34 of the Humanities edi-

~ ‘Two-Tier System Defended

Hartley Hall
and
Mike Tantillo

We were somewhat discouraged after reading the
opinions article on self-selection in last week's Davidso-
nian. It contained the familiar rhetoric espoused by a
great number of Davidson students who are neither in-
formed nor involved in the system. Admittedly, the sys-
tem does not conform to the description in the College
catalogue, nor can it. At the very heart of any self-selec-
tion system is the underlying assumption that a house
will welcome with open arms any person that may off-
handedly decide to eat at that particular house. This
sounds like a utopian, indeed “unique and [seemingly]
painless social structure,” as described in Holt’s article.
However, this simply is not the case.

Due to their strong national tradition, members of
national fraternities are expected to make greater con-
tributions to their houses and to have a greater commit-
ment to fellow members than is expected of members of
eating houses. Also, by admitting that fraternities are
selective, Ross has glossed over an obvious pregnant
omission: that the national fraternities can be selective.
The implication is that more people want to join frater-
nities than the fraternities can handle; the demand is
greater than the supply; and the fraternities become a
victim of their own success.

The fraternities serve the campus as a social outlet to
all and serve the community by way of various service
projects. As the more financially stable houses on the
Court, the fraternities are better able to function as a so-

cial outlet for the entire campus. As a result, their value
to the community at large, not to mention the individual
members (approximately 300 on the Court itself), is un-
deniable.

Ross seems to imply that a two-tiered system will
forever damn the eating houses to some horrid abyss of
second-class citizenry. The eating houses are not ‘‘sec-
ond class” to the fraternity system; they represent a very
viable alternative to it. The eating house system was de-
signed for and still serves those people who prefer not to
be stigmatized by being a “Greek.”

Lastly, the self-selection system is painfully dis-
honest to the Freshmen. Cases surface every year of
Freshmen who believed that they could wait until the
eleventh hour, sign up to eat at a fraternity house, and
then be welcomed as a brother. There are also problems
of men who “put all their eggs in one basket,” and the of-
ficers of the fraternity are nor allowed to be open and
honest, explaining to them that they had best look
around elsewhere. Hence is derived the oft-touted “‘pas-
sive discouragement.” A bid system is simply more
open, honest, and less subject to misinterpretation.

Ross is right; the contradiction between self-selec-
tion as presented in the catalogue and self-selection de

facto is indeed unacceptable. However, the answer is not

to try to impose upon us asystem that has never in prac-
tice worked. Instead, the present system, one which is
strong and viable, should be made more honest. The
time for a return to the bid system is now.

Hall is a Sophomore economics major and member of
Kappa Alpha fraternity from Richmond, Virginia. Mike
Tantillo, who assisted with this article, is a Sophomore
economics major from Rocky River, Ohio. He is amem-
ber of PAX eating house.

tion). What value does love have, what value does faith
have, if they result from some coercion, or fear or awe . .
. or need?

Check the Biblical accounts of the trial and crucifix-
ion. Jesus will not say that he is the Christ, show that he
is with a miracle, or save himself from certain and slow
death. Some will reply, “But Jesus was a man and could
not save himself.” Perhaps this is true; but he had per-
formed miracles before, or God had through him. It is
not a matter of can or cannot, rather will or will not. If
Jesus had done something spectacular and saved him-
self, the love he would have received would have been
worthless. Faith then would be a matter of respect for
power. Jesus did not want love to be given out of fear or
awe; he wanted it to be given freely. Dostoevski’s view
of human nature is overly harsh and I think it inconsis-
tent with that which most of us experience. But it is not
unreasonable to assume that if Jesus had changed the
Roman guards into a flock of sheep, no one would have
crucified him. But that would have given people a reason
to love him. He wanted them to love him freely, without
a reason for It.

But Jesus is not here to perform a miracle or prove to
us that he is the Christ. One might think then that we are
free to love him. Again, I say that only the atheist is free.
If | ask the question, why should I have faith in God or
Jesus? There should not be an answer. It is a loaded
question.

Think for a moment why someone believes in God or
has faith in Jesus. If you feel an absence in your life, a
need; if you want fulfillment; if you are lonely or de-
pressed; if you need answers or stability; all of these are
reasons to love God. If you should be faithful, or are af-
raid of death, or want security for an afterlife, then you
cannot be faithful. Just like the man with the gun to his
head, your decision is calculated and reasonable. I need
this, therefore I will do the following: my life is in sham-
bles, I need guidance, therefore I will love God and have
faith in Jesus. By no means is this always so explicit a
decision; a need does not require such celebration. But
by virtue of the fact that you need or want or think you
should have faith, you negate your freedom. As long as
there is something compelling you to love God, your
freedom of choice is lost. Think of it in this way: if | am
lonely,.I am free to choose whether or not I seek out
company. But I am not as free as if I were not lonely. My
decision will necessarily be affected by my condition of
loneliness; i.e. my freedom is restricted.

The atheist alone can be truly faithful, because he
alone can give his love freely. He needs nothing, wants
nothing. What is more, he does not even believe in that
in which he puts his faith. To say that he gains anything
by his faith is absurd. There is absolutely no reason for
him to love God. And when he does, he alone will be
faithful, for he loves absolutely freely. I needn’t belabor
the point. Essentially, only the atheist is free; freedom is
requisite for true faith; only the atheist can have true
faith. I think Kierkegaard hints at this in Fear and
Trembling when he speaks of the Paradox of Faith. The
atheist is certainly paradoxical when he loves something
he knows doesn’t exist. This means that he is free to
make his decision whether or not to love God.

Faith still confounds me. Perhaps Kierkegaard was
right. Perhaps God, belief in God, is absurd. One might
say that the freedom I speak of comes after faith, mean-
ing the freedom to sin or not to sin once one commits
oneself to Christ. But this is not consistent with Jesus's
behavior as he stood before Pilate, refusing to save him-
self. The atheist does not eliminate the possibility of
faith in God by not believing in Him; rather, this makes
his faith possible. It is the absurdity and the paradox of
his faith that makes’it genuine. The need for faith elimi-
nates the possibility of faith. Only the atheist needs no
faith. Only he can be faithful.

Faith confounds me.

Revell is a Sophomore eronomics major from Miam
Lakes, FL.
