THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume 3¢4#; Number 15

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, March 25, 1983

Monroe, [vey Win

SGA Elections

By MIKE TANTILLO

Hunter Monroe defeated Ester Kim
in the SGA presidential runoff Wednes-
day, 360-304. Lentz Ivey defeated Leon
Mason in the vice-presidential election
Tuesday 411-326.

Tuesday’s SGA presidential election
between Monroe, Kim, and Burt Taylor
made Wednesday’s runoff necessary.
Tuesday’s results were: Monroe: 281,
Kim 265, and Taylor: 260. Voter turnout
was up from last year; 806 votes were
cast in the presidential election Tuesday
(58 percent of student body).as compared
with 718 votes last year. 737 votes were
cast (53 percent of student body) in the
vice-presidential election, compared
with 654 last year.

Monroe “‘sets no limits for the SGA.”

He will not “only represent student views
and issues to the faculty, administration,
and Trustees, but will also articulate the
values and high id®als for which David-

son College stands.”

Monroe is anxious to “develop a
good relationship with the college’s next
president because the effectiveness of the
SGA depends on its relationship with the
college’s president. I hope the president
will respect the SGA and its representa-
tion of student opinion.”

In describing Davidson’s self-selec-
tion system, Monroe stated, “There are
recognized problems with the system,
and if there is a mandate for change, the
SGA’s job will be to entertain student
opinion, evaluate the alternatives, and
work out a compromise between the stu-

SGA Vice-president Lentz lvey and President Hunter Monroe

dents, eating houses, and the administra-
tion. The SGA cannot act as a third, im-
partial party between the Court and ad-
ministration.”

Monroe would like to see more coop-
eration between organizations and cam-
pus. Monroe said, “The SGA has tended

(continued on page 6)

Dwindling Membership Forces ETC To Fold

By JEFFREY MANN

The officers of ETC eating house an-
nounced this Monday that the house will
not reopen next Fall. The house will con-
tinue operating for the rest of this term,
but will make no attempt to gain enough
members to remain in existence.

ETC President Laura McDonald said
the house has lost 25 members since the
beginning of the year and now has about
42 members. Seventeen freshman opted
for the house during self-selection, but
this number will be more than offset by
Sophomores going abroad and graduat-
ing Seniors. College Business Manager
Bob Currie has set a membership of 65 as
the suggested minimum for an eating
house to operate.

McDonald said that a proposed

Davidson Weighs Draft-Aid Law

Policy For Non-Registrants Undecided

merger with ATO house, which also suf-
fers from low membership, fell through
when ATO voted to remain open on their
own.

ETC tried to cut its expenses by elim-
inating paid waiters, cutting back on
food purchases, and generally “running
the house more conservatively,”
McDonald said. These efforts were not
enough to make up for the dwindling
membership, however.

ETC Treasurer Steve MacMillan said
the house’s assets, which include furni-
ture, stereo equipment, and decorations
will probably be sold to offset a projected
deficit of one to two thousand dollars. It
is still unclear who will be liable if there
is still a debt after the assets are sold.

“Theoretically, the current members

and the ones who started the year are re-
sponsible. but they were never informed
of this responsibility when they signed
up so, it’s unfair to saddle them with the
debt,” MacMillan said.

This threat of an assessment to pay a
deficit was largely responsible for ETC’s
demise, MacMillan said. Five Seniors
decided over spring break not to eat at the
house because they were afraid of an as-
sessment. This unanticipated loss of
about $2000 “put us over the brink,” ac-
cording to MacMillan.

“With the Commons and Warner
Hall [eating house] opening this year one
of the Patterson court houses had to go.
Perhaps our closing will make the other
houses stronger in terms of member-
ship,” McDonald said. “Warner Hall

hurt us a lot more than the Commons, but
the Commons hurt all of Patterson
Court,” MacMillan said. “We lost a lot
of our girls to Warner Hall. The women’s
houses will be stronger for a while, but
will hurt the coed houses.”

Dean of Students Will Terry said that
there are no plans for the house as of yet.
“Tell just sit empty for awhile. . . . [(Cur-
rie] and I are of the opinion that we want
to move very slowly in finding a use for
the house,” he said.

MacMillan predicted that most house
members would go to the Commons and
ruled out a mass movement to another
house.

He would like to have seen more sup-
port from the Administration. “I wish

(continued on page 6)

Inside This Week

-SGA Weekend Seventy potential Davidsonians
are visiting us here this weekend. Read their whole

By ROXANNA GUILFORD

Students refusing to register for the draft will no
longer be eligible for federal financial aid effective July
‘1, 1983, according to arecently passed federal bill. Male
applicants for aid must present documentation of their
registration to be eligible.

According to Director of Financial Aid Kathleen
Stevenson, “Davidson’s policy [concerning the link be-
tween registration and aid] has not been established.”
While she and Admissions Director Joha Griffith have
put together a proposal that has already gone before the
Advisory Council on Admissions and Financial Aid,
neither is at liberty to divulge its contents. ;

When asked to give some indication of the propo-
sal’s contents, Stevenson said, “That wouldn’t be fair
until [College President Samuel] Spencer has his say.”
According to Stevenson, Spencer will make the final de-

cision sometime in the indefinite future.

Many schools are attempting to circumvent this law
by guaranteeing student aid in the face of lost federal
dollars (e.g., Earlham College in Indiana, Haverford
College in Pennsylvainia). Others, such as Boston Uni-
versity, deny any financial assistance, be it federal or
private, to students who refuse to register.

The administration, according to Stevenson, will
consider students input in its decision. “I’m sure he’d
[Spencer] be agreeable to any ideas we’d [Stevenson and
Griffith) pass along.” She advises concerned students to
contact the two student members of the Admissions and
Financial Aid Committee, Vickie Neale and Karyn Hos-
kins, or to talk to either her or John Griffith.

While unable to discuss Davidson’s reaction to the
law, Stevenson did discuss the three basic choices most

(continued on page 6)

itenerary on p. 3

-Women’s Tennis is still undefeated after seven
matches. See the story on p. 13

“Atheism—Faith confounds Revell.
Opinions, | p. 17

Read it in

-‘Self-Selection Survey completed by the SGA
this week. See the p. 6 story.

Non-Profit Organization
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID
Permit No. 1
Davidson, N.C. 28036

-IMAC’s back! Softball
teams ranked on p. 15

