6 Friday, March 25, 1983

The Davidsonian

SGA Tallies Patterson Court Survey

By ROSS HOLT

The SGA Patterson Court Study
Committee (PCSC) has tallied the results
of its self-selection questionnaire, ac-
cording to committee chairperson War-
ren Gould. Although the committee re-
ceived only 343 of 1194 of the surveys,
Gould said enough had come in to dis-
cern general trends on several of the
questions.

Gould noted, however, that since
only aboud one fourth of the surveys
were returned, that “we cannot interpret
the results as a homogeneous campus
opinion.”

He feels, however, that “the results

do make several definite problems in the
self-selection clear.”

He pointed to questions four and five
as examples of this. In question four,
47.1% of the 343 respondents stated that,
before arriving here, they felt “the sys-
tem is totally self selected,” while 46.5%
said “the system is two-fold (’two-
tier’).” In question five, which asked
what “best describes Davidson’s social
system,” 87.8% said they felt the system
is “two-tier.” Gould said that these trends
were large enough to indicate a wide-
spread sentiment.

The Patterson Court Committee of
the SGA consists of Gould, Minor Hin-

son, Dave Hutchinson, Pete Skillern,
Burt Taylor, Pat Woodward, and Bead-
sie Woo.

Gould said that several students had
voiced concern that some committee
members might be biased in favor of a
bid-system. He made clear however, that
the committee “is doing everything pos-
sible” to provide an objective report.

A meeting of the PCSC scheduled for
yesterday eveniig was rescheduled for
next Wednesday because the committee
had not completed all of the interviews.

At their next meeting committee
members will discuss the questionnaire
results and hear reports on the inter-

views. Gould said he would not expect a
final recommendation to come out of the
meeting.

He wishes, however, to hold an open
forum for students sometime after the
meeting. After that, he hopes to bring the
committee together once again to review
all of the material from the forum, the in-
terviews, and the questionnaire. A final
proposal to the SGA should come from
that meeting. If the SGA accepts the pro-
posal, he said, it would be presented to
the student body by means of a referen-
dum. Gould said he hopes for a turnout of
at least 600.

Draft and Financial Aid

(continued from page 1)

col-
leges can consider. As is the case with
Boston University, schools can refuse all
aid to non-registrants. They could also
help make up the lost federal funds, or,
as a third option, they could continue to
give privately supported assistance but
not provide for the lost federal funds.
Many schools, according to Stevenson,
are using various combinations of all
three possibilities.

Stevenson further discussed the diffi-
culties in enforcing the federal mandate.
In addition to sheer paper work, there is
the question of lawsuits and injunctions.

In Minnesota, a suit was filed against
the law, citing, among other things, dis-
crimination on the basis of income. Ac-
cording to Stevenson, this resulted in an
injunction, allowing aid to be granted, if
only for a temporary period. She also
mentioned several pending court cases
dealing with “how it’s enforced and who
polices it.” Stevenson predicts long-term
enforcement will rest with individual in-
stitutions.

One area of confusion concerns the
difference between a conscientious ob-

jector and someone who refuses to regis-
ter for the draft. Stevenson feel that the
difference in relation to federal aid
should be clarified. A conscientious ob-
jector has registered for the draft. He
does not violate the law. However, a
young man who fails to register is break-

A non-registrant
imght as well forget
about pursuing

a higher education

ing the law. Only the one who fails to re-
gister risks forfeiting his federal financial
assistance. .

For non-registrants, Rep. Gerald Sol-
omon (R-NY) has proposed a bill that
would “punish” colleges and universities
for providing any private aid to non-reg-

SGA Elections

(continued from page |)

Ivey said, “Hunter and I have decided
that this year the V.P. will take a more
active role in consulting and leading
committee chairmen in their goal-setting
process. Ivey looks for “‘a more open
SGA using already sound foundations of
good relations between the SGA and
Davidsonian. The SGA will be more re-
sponsive to student concerns.”

As personal goals, Monroe would
like to make leadership an emphasis of
the SGA, carrying this out through
speakers, workshops, and a leadership
resource center. .

Monroe would also like to see the
“computers better integrated in the
Davidson mainstream.” Monroe encour-
ages anyone interested in working with
the SGA this year to attend next Tues-
day’s meeting where he and Ivey will
discuss the SGA’s goals and methods for
the coming year.

to operate in a vacuum, apart from other
organizations. I hope to improve this be-
cause I am involved in a number of cam-
pus organizations. Working toward joint
goals is beneficiaal to all concerned be-
cause 1) expenses can be divided; 2)
moremanpower is available; 3) more
campus interest is generated.”

Monroe sees student and SGA in-
volvement in the transition to the semes-
ter system as important because “‘it will
reorganize the whole of curriculum,
which will have aa huge effect on stu-
dents.”

Lentz Ivey is excited about working
with Monroe and supports him and his
goals for the SGA. Ivey and Monroe
were roommates last year, which will
“provide unique insight into each other’s
personalities, and make a working re-
lationship easily established,” according
to Ivey.

istrants. Such schools would lose current
and future government grants. In effect,
a student who failed to register for the
draft would be denied any and all finan-
cial assistance.

According to University of Min-
nesota’s Director of Financial Aid
Robert Misenko, a non-registrant under
the proposed law “might as well forget
about pursuing a higher education. Vir-
tually no one gets through school these
days without some form of aid.” He
views the issue as one of a “right to an
education.”

This same issue has been a key argu-
ment against the present denial of aid to
non-registrants. Many opponents per-
ceive this as a denial of a basic right on
the grounds of political beliefs and fam-
ily income. According to Kathy
Malulich, the issue is not one of registra-
tion, but of “whether or not they have the
money.”

Davidson Chaplain Charlie Summers
discussed yet another point of con-
troversy, maintaining that it is “improper
for the Federal government to require a
Christian college to be an enforcer of its
laws.” While he believes the Federal
government should be able to control its
own money, he also believes that the en-
forcement should be their responsibility.

He compares the Federal mandate to
a hypothetical situation in which finan-
cial aid is denied to students who can’t
prove that they’d filed the proper income
tax forms.

While he has no objection to registra-

ETC

(continued from page 1)

they had showed they were behind us in-
stead of ’we’re going to shut you down.’
They weren’t hostile, but I think they
could have helped us out. . . . They sup-
port the Commons so wholeheartedly,
and wouldn’t fine the people who eat
there if it ran a deficit.”

“It’s a shame for a house to have to
close, especially a coed house. . . .| hope

‘that the Court will become better though,

realizing that it [a house going under] can
really happen,” McDonald said.

John Ruppenthal

Director of Financial Aid
Kathleen Stevenson

tion per se, he opposes the inability of a
person to register as anon-combatant or a
conscientious objector. The only oppor-
tunity to declare one’s status is in the ten-
day period prior to induction.

Despite his objections to the law re-
quiring proof of registration before a
school can give federal financial assist-
ance, and his objection to the way regis-
tration is conducted, Summers has yet to
decide whether he will raise any formal
objections (if Davidson decides to en-
force the mandate). He will, however,
help students who wish to protest the ac-
tion by providing resources and contacts.

Summers discussed the irony of
Reagan’s promises to remove the gov-
ernment from the private sector and the
signing of this bill. “Reagan said he’d get
off the backs of people and now he’s in-
truding in the financial aid offices.” He
also mentioned Reagan’s campaign
promise: that he would abolish registra-
tion. Summers simply points out that
eighteen-year-old males still must regis-
ter for the draft.

Various civic and religious organiza-
tions have raised objections to the law,
focusing on the questions of freedom of
education and the law’s enforcement.
According to Jeff Dempsey, a member of
Amnesty International’s core grous, A.1.
cannot take a stand on the issue, because
it deals only with situations outside the
US.

Once the decision is announced by
Spencer, more reactions are expected
from various college organizations.
