‘Music from Abroad

Lasar Gosman directs Emigre Orchestra

By STEPHANIE J. BRUCK ’84

Under the leadership of Lazar Gosman, the Soviet
Emigre Orchestra gave Davidson its third installment
in the 1982-83 Artists Series. This unusual group, the
only chamber orchestra of its size and international ca-
liber in the United States, includes Soviet emigre musi-
cians from the Moscow and Leningrad Philharmonics
and Chamber Orchestras, the Bolshoi and Kirov Theat-
ers, joined with outstanding American musicians. In
their 1979 debut season, they performed at Carnegie
Hall, Lincoln Center, Philadelphia, Princton, and Wa-
shington, D.C. A year later they founded the Ticonder-
oga Music Festival, where the Orchestra returns each
summer. Having toured the Midwest, the Northeast,
and the South, the Orchestra leaves Davidson for a Lat-
in American tour, followed by Canada and California
before returning to New York.

Hey Balloon Baby —
let'aire
— Ligh-bulk

Happy Valentine’s Day
Allen!
I Love You!

Molly

Student: vert time joo

Junio’ or Sen or needed to do read-
ing, fi.c: Cathering, and writing for a
resea ach project in specie! educa-
tior. No experience necessary, only
solid ‘esearch skills and writing abil-
itv. Call Mrs. Smith 372-4188

On Wednesday night in Love Auditorium (the
name of which greatly amused Mr. Gosman), without
tuning on stage, the Orchestra brightly launched into
Mozart’s “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.” Their attack was
crisp, with the parts entering and closing effortlessly.
They play this perennial favorite at most of their con-
certs, and the polish shows. A twentieth-century piece,
Shostakovich’s “Sinfonietta,” followed. The compos-
er combined an autobiographical and a political state-
ment in this piece “in memory of victims of fascism
and war,” an emotion-laden memory of Stalin’s reign
of terror. At certain points in this complex musical od-
yssey, one felt that a conductor might have aided the
17-member string ensemble in heightening and shar-
pening the compositioin, but the orchestra nonetheless
wove a fascinating rendition of this dramatic piece.

After an intermission, we returned to Tchaikovsky.
The Orchestra sparkled through the “Russian Dance”
from “Swan Lake” arranged by Mr. Gosman. The final
piece was Tchaikovsky’s “Serenade for Strings in C.”
This is a big piece, and those seventeen strings sounded
big. they didn’t just produce volumne, however; a rich
subtlety permeated the performance, and when soft-
ness was called for, the strings whispered. In fact,
throughout the evening, a most striking aspect was the
Orchestra’s attention to dynamics. The volume
changes were as precise and well-observed as the at-
tacks and entrances. There were two brief encores:
Prokofiev’s “Morning Serenade” from Romeo and Ju-
liet , a light, tripping piece; and the fast “Spanish
Dance” of Shostakovich.

As concertmaster during performances, Mr. Gos-
man displays his virtuosity on the violin. The quality of
Wednesday’s performance and the growing eminence
of the Soviet Emigre Orchestra attest to Gosman’s skill
as Musical Director.

101 North Main Street

TRADITIONAL AND CLASSIC CLOTHING

Casually Waiting for Spring

in Separates from Davidson Dry Goods... .

pictured on the campus of Davidson College | to r:

C. Melton in Gabrielle knit top $25 and denim mini $36

M. Nix in Shrader Sport knit top $36 and knit bottom $38

M. Edward in Esprit sweat shirt $27 and pleated twill pant $36

J. Poole in PBJ knit top $28 and cotton/poly skirt $32

10% student discount with Davidson ID
Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Telephone 704/892-8156

22 THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983
