12 Friday, September 16, 1983/The Davidsonian

Eat me!

3rd Rich at the Talent Show

Some freshman halls were very re-
sourceful at the Regatta

Regatta!

By Peggy Pierotti
Anderson Scott
Ann Meador

Hall Counselors greeted freshmen on 4th Little

The parental load-in

Administrative Metaphysics

(Continued from page 9)

The President normally presides over faculty meet-
ings. The President of the student body is invited to at-
tend all Faculty meetings with the privileges of the floor
but without the privilege of voting.

Fifty percent of the Faculty in residence constitutes a
quorum for the transaction of business. Formal action of
the faculty requires majority approval.

Any educational program or policy adopted by the
Faculty may be submitted by the President to the Trus-
tees for review and approval prior to its implementation.

The Constitution defines the Educational program
and policy of the College as consisting of the College’s:

“a) curricula, curriculum requirements and
academic standards;

b) international study programs;

c) formal programs for faculty. study, research, and
Le prrcne!) OFS com - ee . woe.

d) seledgion*and use of library materials;

e) awarding of academic degrees and honorary de-
grees;

f) establishing,
academic departments;

g) academic and career counseling and guidance pro-
grams,

h)academic and scholarly lecture programs and cul-
tural programs initiated by academic departments.
i) determination of requirements and standards of the
physical education program including intramural sports;

regulating, and changing of

4 900 2 ene eee nee Be ri:

j) determination of the academic qualifications to be
applied in the admission of students.”

A number of Faculty committees formulate policy in
these different areas. Students serve on all hese commit-
tees except those concerned with items c,e, and j of the
educational program and policy. The Executive Com-
mittee is the major coordinating body of the Faculty and
its committees.

The Students

“The Student Body may organize itself into associa-
tional form; create representative legislative bodies, of-
ficers of student government and committees with legis-
lative and advisory powers.”

—Article XI, The Constitution

of Davidson College

_ _ The SGA i is the primary body, for consulting student

opin on on various issues. According té'the Preambilé of

its By-Laws, the SGA’s main purpose is “to provide a

mechanism for recognizing the collective voices of stu-
dents.”

The SGA has the power to charter student organiza-
tions and determines which students will serve on advis-
ory councils.

The SGA senate acts as the legislative body. The
SGA also establishes various subcommittees to study
school policy.

The most powerful member of the SGA, is, of
course, vits President. The President is the chief execu-

tive officer of the SGA and represents the SGA to the
Faculty, students, and Trustees. As previously stated,
the President is allowed to attend the Faculty and Trustee
meetings with privileges of the floor but without the
privilege of voting.

The SGA is the organization officially in charge of
representing student concerns, but several other organi-
zations act as fora for communication. The list includes
all the student publications: The Davidsonian, the stu-
dent newspaper; Hobart Park, the student literary
magazine; The Wildcat Handbook; and occasionally
Quips and Cranks.

The Y Student Service Corps offers opportunities for
those students who wish to express themselves through
service, and Davidson Christian Fellowship and the Fel-
lowship nf Christian Athletesig{fer opportunities for ex-
pressfon tnrough worship.

Organizations such as Amnesty International, the
Black Student Coalition, the Women’s Concerns Com-
mittee, the Young Democrats, the Young Republicans,
and NC-PIRG offer students the opportunity to express
social and political concerns (though this would not di-
rectly affect the Trustees).

In addition, the Patterson Court Council enables the
Patterson Court Houses to regulate food operations and
the social life on the court. The Intramural Athletic
Council allows students an opportunity to organize intra-
mural sports.

