THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXII, Number 17

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, April 8, 1983

Court Committee Completes Primary Study

By ROSS HOLT

The Patterson Court Study Commit-
tee of the SGA (PCSC) has ended the
first phase of its investigation into self-
selection with a rough draft proposal de-
signed to define self-selection “more
openly and accurately.”

At a student forum held Tuesday in
Chambers gallery, committee member
Burt Taylor reported on the student inter-
views his subcommittee conducted.
Chairman Warren Gould then read the
PCSC proposal and opened the floor for
discussion.

Taylor said he and committee mem-
bers Pete Skillern and Pat Woodward had
conducted interviews with a representa-
tive from each Court house, usually the
president or rush chairman. Although
Taylor said he had expected less of a con-
sensus from the interviews, he noted cer-
tain areas of agreement among almost all
houses. He said that all the interviews re-
flected concern that the system be made
more open and honest, and work more
clearly and efficiently.

Taylor also said that some houses had
voiced uncertainty over a two-tier sys-
tem, in which fraternities would be al-
lowed to extend bids and eating houses
would remain self-selected. He said the
consensus here was that the bid system
would present problems with the social

Inside This Week

‘Drinking Focus: read about
the student poll and details on the pro-
posed drinking age law. See page 3.

‘Human Sexuality: presenta-
tions spark heated discussion. Read
the summaries on page 5.

-Pie ASSaSSiNS: Delts throw for
dough. Read a personal account on
page 6.

-Booze Brothers: BB frolics on
Patterson Court. See page 7.

-Baseball: Wildcats nearly pull off
upset. Page 9.

-Opinions: Revell blasts ideologi-
cal imperialism. Page 11.

status of the eating houses. In addition,
there was, he said, general agreement
that freshmen should be introduced to the
court earlier, perhaps as early as the sec-
ond week of school.

After Taylor’s report, Gould read the
proposal, emphasizing that the commit-
tee was willing to alter it based on student
sentiment.

Gould’s reaction to the following dis-
cussion was “‘very positive”. Due to the
“wide spectrum of ideas,” according to”
Gould, the committee opted to postpone
offering the proposal to the SGA until
another open forum could be arranged.
Gould also said that the committee would
accept counter-proposals and alternative
resolution.

Gould said he would like to have all
proposals in to him by Friday, April 15.
The next open forum is scheduled for
Monday, April 18 at 4:30 in Chambers
gallery.

Despite the discord of the first forum,
Gould felt that “with certain changes in
(the PCSC) proposal, it would be accept-
able to the student body.” He specified
that those changes might include rewrit-
ing the opening sentences of the propose!
to make more clear “that the bottom line
is that a student has the natural right to
select the house at which he wishes to

(Continued on page 4)

The Proposal. . .

We believe self-selection is a via-
ble part of Davidson College’s social
system. We believe that fraternities are
important to both Patterson Court and
to the College and community in gen-
eral; that the alternative of total self-
selection clubs is essential. We fur-
thermore believe that it is a freshman’s
natural right to select responsibly the
house he wishes to join; and that it is a
fraternity’s natural right to be selec-
tive. We therefore propose that the
present social system, called Self-
Selection, be more openly and accu-
rately defined through re-wording the
catalogue, and through an open, hon-
est education of the freshmen during
orientation. In addition to fraternities
extending ‘“‘oral encouragements’”’, the
Court fraternities should be allowed to
openly confront or challenge an unen-
couraged shotgunner, but that no Pat-
terson Court house should actively dis-
courage a student. The freshmen must
be made aware of the extra effort and
added responsibility of joining a Pat-
terson Court fraternity. We believe
this proposal to be representative of the
majority of the Patterson Court and the
student body.

... and the
Catalogue alteration

A proposal for the 1984-85 David-
son College Catalogue’s description of
Patterson Court: keep the first para-
graph of ‘Patterson Court” (p. 25 of
the 1982-83 Catalogue) but re-word
the second paragraph as follows:

Affiliation with the Patterson
Court eating houses is based on indi-
vidual self-selection. Freshmen are in-
troduced to the Court by open houses
and invitations to meals, and they are
invited to big dances and informal par-
ties throughout the year. The four
Court fraternities extend “oral en-
couragements” to freshmen they wish
to pledge in the spring, and very few
freshmen pledge a Patterson Court
fraternity without such an encourage-
ment. During March the freshmen
select the house they wish to join. All
Patterson Court houses strongly en-
courage the freshmen to participate in
a house's activities and be familiar
with a house’s characteristics and
members before the house selection
process.

Focus: Drinking Age and Davidson

By MARY HARDING
and DAVID RESNIK

The effects of raising the North
Carolina drinking age to nineteen will
weight most heavily on three aspects of
Davidson’s social life — freshman hall
parties, Patterson Court parties, and the
900 Room.

Dean of Students Will Terry said the
College would like to decide its position
on the new law by the end of spring, even
though the law would not go into effect
until October 19.

The Council on Campus and Religi-
ous Life will discuss Davidson’s re-
sponse to the law. Terry said Davidson
must “uphold the law in some manner or
way,” but he is not sure how it will be en-
forced.

Terry said the College’s biggest re-
sponsibility will be educating the student
body about the law’s effects on campus.
The educational process will involve off-
campus fraternity and Patterson Court
house representatives, hall counselors,
and Union representatives.

Terry believes that “most of the par-
tying would go on off-campus” if the
state raises the drinking age to 21, and
this would naturally result in more drunk
driving, he noted.

Will parties disappear with the old drinking age?

Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross
feels that there will have to be a College
policy if the law is passed. “We would
get a lot of advice from students and fac-
ulty if the law is passed. We’ ll have to sit
down as acommunity and decide how we
can make mutual agreements about ex-

pectations.”

Ross feels it will be difficult to regu-
late and enforce a policy concerning al-
cohol consumption at Court parties.
‘We're not primarily enforcers. We're
supporters of a high standard,” she said.

‘Continued on page 3)

File Phata
