The Davidsonian/Friday, September 30, 1983 9

Davidson Sputters In 14-7 Loss To Newberry

By SCOTT HUIE

Last Saturday, in a battle of the de-
fenses, the Wildcat football team fell to
NAIA foe Newberry 14-7 as the team
could muster only 143 drowsy yards in
total offense.

Disappointment understates the sen-
timent expressed by the Cats after the
game, for it was one of those rare outings
where Davidson was perhaps favored to
win. Various team spokesmen issued
state-of-the-team addresses.

Coach Ed Farrell: “After making

—— From The Locker Room
Carolina Complex

By STEVE SOUD

Tuesday mornings at the breakfast
table are always an anxious time. |
frantically scan the expanse of the
Commons in a desperate search for the
morning’s most priceless commodity:
the newspaper. Tearing it from some-
one else’s eager grasp, I fling the pages
open to the SPORTS section. There, in
wondrous glow, I behold the AP Top
Twenty.

Recently, however, my stomach
nauseatedly regrets my eyes’ findings.
Disgustingly nestled in a tiny niche
near the top of the column is the uni-
versity of north carolina. I use lower
case letiers because schools with such
schedules merit no more. If valor has
anything to do with honor, then Dick
Crum, his team, and above all his
> Scheduling. henchmen. needn't fret

over being “Tabelled honorable on
Saturday afternoons.

Over the past few years the univer-
sity has fed itself a steady diet of
woebegottens pawned off as serious
competition. Occasionally someone
goofs and throws in a heavyweight,
but they don’t repeat those mistakes.
(What was that Oklahoma score?) In
fact, if it weren’t for the ACC games
they’re bound to play, I’m not sure
Davidson wouldn’t be on the heels’
menu. Someone used to schedule Bos-
ton College, but as soon as the War
Eagles became a contender they van-
ished from the unc schedule.

This year the tar heel schedule has
reached a new low in an already abys-
mal tradition. Last Saturday they toyed
with William and Mary, 51-20. You
remember I-AA William and Mary —
it wasn’t so long ago that they were

progress the first two weeks, we made a
gian step backwards in the Newberry
game. Talent-wise the two teams were
relatively equal, but their defense domi-
nated our offense. That was the differ-
ence.

“Overall, the problem is not attitude.
Even though sometimes we may not ex-
pect to win, the desire and commitment
are still there. What we need to do now is
put the Newberry game behind us and
concentrate on each person working on
better execution. The key thing we have

to do is to think positive, even against the.

members of the ol’ Southern Confer-
ence. Tomorrow those mighty heels
take on Georgia Tech. You remember
GIT — it wasn’t so long ago that Fur-
man was beating them at Grant Field in
Atlanta.

That name Furman should ring a
bell for Wildcat fans. The Cats take on
Furman for homecoming. It appears
that Furman would be better fare for
north carolina than Georgia Tech, yet
Davidson plays Furman.

To anyone knowledgeable about I-
AA football, Davidson’s schedule re-
sembles a holiday in Cambodia. The
loss last Saturday to Lafayette is in-
gested more easily when one considers
the Leopards are Top Twenty, as is
James Madison. Furman is ranked
fifth in the I-AA poll. (When was the
last time a fifth-ranked team came to
Kenan Stadium for homecoming?)
S.C. State, wnom- you wirseu fet *
days, is the top-ranked team in I-AA.
Finally, Wofford, to whom the Cats
succumbed 21-7, is ranked in the
NAIA Top Ten. The average I-AA
team offers 60 scholarships; Davidson
none.

Meanwhile, our friends cross-
state, whose schedule resembles a
menu, gain top five status. Yes, theyll
play Maryland and Clemson, but I sub-
mit that’s more out of obligfation than
choice.

But what of Davidson? They’re
left to suffer the slings and arrows of an
outrageous schedule while the Trus-
tees decide whether they ’re to be or not
to be. For the Wildcats to go 5-5 would
be a Herculean effort. So don’t get so
down on thems

But for the time being, my Tues-
day breakfasts are ruined.

Athlete Of The Week

Sean Austin,’ this week’s Athlete
of the Week, scored the winning goal
in each of the two victories for the
Wildcat soccer team this past
weekend. His goal against Richmond
gave the Cats a 1-0 win. He also led the
team to a 3-0 victory over Hampden-
Sydney, scoring what proved to be the
winning goal. Then against UNC-C,

Austin scored the tying goal which en-
abled the Wildcats to win the overtime
shootout and advance in the tourna-
ment play. Austin scored his fourth
goal in as many games last night
against Winthrop in the team’s drama-
tic 2-0 win over Winthrop in overtime.
Austin is a sophomore from Atlanta,

Georgia.

awesome opponents.”

Quarterback Keith Martin: ‘Too
many mistakes and mental breakdowns
— that’s what’s killing us. It’s like I’m
not worried about completing the pass,
but more like not throwing the intercep-
tion. And I feel the whole team is in this
same rut of playing tentative football.
We just got to get that confidence back.”

Fullback Horace Manor: “We’re the
best 0-3 team around.”

A dubious distinction, indeed, par-
ticularly after this loss. Note the statis-
tics: First downs, 6; yardage rushing, 79
(on 40 carries); yardage passing, 64.
Maybe the offense should treat the de-
fense to pizzas at the Peregrine House.
After all, the defense even scored the
touchdown.

Trailing by six in the third quarter,
Martin marched the Cats to the Newberry
2. On a fourth-and-one Martin botched
the hand off and Newberry gained pos-
session. But two plays later, Sophomore
cornerback Tony Smith recovered an In-
dian fumble in the endzone for the score.

Davidson’s lead was short-lived,
however, as Newberry scored a final
touchdown midway through the fourth
quarter to end the scoring.

Coming off a jaw injury, free safety
Doug Neil dominated play defensively

with 10 tackles before falling to a shoul-
der injury midway throught the fourth
quarter. So go Davidson’s fortunes this
year. Defensive end Jerry Grubba con-
tributed nine tackles.

Said Martin: “Now, more than ever,
we have to pull together as a unit to get
back to the winning track.”

The task will be doubly difficult as
tomorrow the Cats travel to Harrisonburg
Virginia to play James Madison (2-1),
who last year defeated Davidson 35-7.
The Dukes are ranked 20th in the nation,
and according to Farrell, “should be
much higher.” Two weeks ago, a last
second interception kept Madison from
upsetting undefeated Virginia. The
Wildcats’ troubled special teams will be
tested by one of the most electrifying re-
tum man in the game, Madison’s Gary
Clark. In the Virginia game alone he re-
turned two 90-yard punts for
touchdowns. Clark doubles as a wide re-
ceive and last week scored four
touchdowns, three on long passes.

Said Farrell, “James Madison is a
very talented football team, right up
there with Furman and South Carolina
State.”

Need I say more?

Huie’s Prediction:
James Madison 38; Davidson 14

Carroll Overton

Team huddles during cloudy flickerball practice

Flickerball Previews
Vociferously Continued

Best of the Rest:

Flickerball “pundits around the world
have been vociferously”' arguing over
which flickerball team will emerge as
number one for the 1983 fall season.
With the demise of the SAE flickerball
dynasty due to paternity suits and gradu-
ation, just about anybody could win it all
thie year (except, of course, for The Veg-
etables). The two frontrunners at this
point in the season appear to be KA Gold
and Rissie and Lillie Mae.

KA Gold. This band of Southern gents
may well take the title. With a potent de-
fense lead by superfast pass rusher David
Dendy, the Gold has a better than even
shot at shutting out Ed’s Wildcats. Scott
Huie leads the offensive attack at tail-
back, running the option about as well as

— J.C. Watts.

Rissie and Lillie Mae. This team of
SAEs is very good.

The Barracudas. An up and coming
female flickerball team are the Bar-
racudas. This team of sophomores has
taken the rare combination of beauty,
brains, and brawn to form a legitimate
successor to the Filthy Amazons.

Surpirse Upset: The Vegetables were
narrowly edged 46-0.

Top Five: !)KA Gold, 2)Rissie and Lil-
lie Mae, 3)Cheddarmen, 4)Moral Hex,
5)Russian Airspace. Women |)Filthy
Amazons, 2)Penthouse Babes, 3)Bar-
racudas, 4)Buster’s Lusters, 5)Warner
Hall.

'Mann, Jeff, and his thesaurus.

