THE DAVIDPHONIAN

Volume: 6.77 litres

The Newspaper of Davidson Junior High

Friday 13, Part 4

Trustees Appoint New College President

By ONKYO AKAI

The trustees announced Sunday the
replacement for soon-to-be-ex-president
Sam Spencer. After several weeks of de-
liberation, and five closed-door summit
session cocktail parties in the Wilson
Room, the trustees today displayed
Spencer’s replacement, a Sony answer-
ing machine model THX 1138.

“This is a great moment for Davidson
College.” said Trustee Ben Craig.
“Queens has been using a smaller model
for years now and doing fine. The Sony
is an excellent machine. You can pre-re-
cord up to seven different messages —
two more than the old president had —
and the Sony will automatically select
the right phrase at the. right moment.”
The trustees have formed a subcommit-
tee to draft messages. Under considera-
tion are, “tuition increase,” “Hi,”
“Budget shortfall,” “It's tradition,” and
“Ask Zimm.”

Craig says, “I feel that an answering
machine is the only logical replacement

for Dr. Spencer. Besides, the Sony will

fly economy and won't drink too much at
alumni parties.” An accessory, a latex
hand and mechanical arm which delivers

Inside This Weak

‘New Laundry Com-
plex: Frances Beaver is a happy
woman. See page 13.

‘From the Footlocker:
ROTC plans MX missile base on
flickerball fields. Story on page 13.

-Deity!: Davidsonian grad be-
comes tribal god in East Africa. See
page 666.

-Booze Brothers: «Ali-tacul-
ty Party Squad.” See page 13.

-Faux Pas!: Pledge class con-
fesses to midnight dog sacrifice. See
page 13.

-NCAA Championship:
The Cats do it! See page 13.

‘Hell Freezes: over. See page
13. .

“We Have A President!” : An estimated 300,000 people fill St. Samuel's Square

as white smoke from Chambers announces the selection of the new president

an amazingly life-like handshake, has
been ordered and should make the transi-
tion even smoother. Craig enthused.
“The hand’s great. Shakes for hours.

Won't get clammy.”

Reaction to the appointment was vocal
and varied. Vice-President for Academic
Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C.

Price Zimmmermannnn said he was
pleased with the selection. He noted that
the incoming president would make few
changes in college staff. “Still,” he said,
“indications are that he will replace En-
glish professor Richard C. Cole with a
Teac tape deck and Religion Professor

Alexander McKelway with a_ prose
evaluation form.” In addition,
Zimmmermannnn~ expects Chaplain

Charlie Summers to be replaced with a
videotape of Jim Bakker.

“Beep! This is a great moment for
Davidson College.” said Trustee Ben
Craig. “Queens has been using a smaller
model for years now and doing fine. The
Sony is an excellent machine. You can
pre-record up to seven different mes-
sages — two more than the old president
had — and the Sony will automatically
select the right phrase at the right mo-
ment. Beep!”

The runners-up
Before selecting the Sony as College
President, Craig said, the Trustee Search
Committee pared the list down to five.
The Search committee reportedly
considered Economics professor Louise

(continued on page 3)

Consultants Review Humanities

By DAVID HUMES

A distinguished team of outside con-
sultants has been called in to aid in the
reorganization of the Humanities pro-
gram, according to Steering Committee
Chairperson Anthony S. “Tony” Abbott.
He explained that the team consists of
people whose work has greatly influ-
enced the Humes program, although he
refused to elaborate. “We want to keep
the names of the consultants secret,” he
said, “so that they can blend freely with
the students and get an accurate assess-
ment of the course.”

Despite Abbott's tight-lippedness, the
Davidphonian has managed to discover
three of the consultants and to elicit their
reactions to the program.

“DIONE STB.” said Gil-
gamesh while relaxing in Dirk French’s
office. “Fengae C3 8y A —f!” He
went on to say, however, that he was of-
fended with the way some students per-
ceived his relationship with Enkidu. He
said many had derided them as “just a
couple of fags,” while in reality it was a
very beautiful thing.

Caught eating fried chicken on Cynthia
Lewis-Stanfield’s front porch, noted
dramatist Will Shakespeare called the
program “a goode thinge.” The only
problem he saw with Humes was the
much-touted breadth over depth issue.
He was upset that ‘after that I spent a
fortnight in setting down The Tragical
History of King Lear,” the syllabus only
called for a lecture and one discussion on
that play. “Alas, poor students,” he

added.

Contacted in his corner room in the
Guest House, astronomer Galileo Galilei
announced his disgust with the program.
“We gotta changa de programma,” he
observed. “We cannotta no longer look
at dese things fromma de Church’s

Bra Burns

Hog tied, gasoline doused

By STEVEN A. EDWARDS

A bra was found hog-tied and burn-
ing on the sidewalk of the Rusk house at
3 a.m. on May 10.

According to a town of Davidson
police report, Rusk member Susan
Eighteenhower heard a noise outside the
all-women’s house. She went to the win-
dow and observed two white males run-
ning and an object burning in front of the
house.

Betty Bali, another witness, said she
saw “what looked like a Maidenform, or
at least a Playtex, with all the straps tied
up burning on top of a casserole dish.”

“I thought it was horrible,” she said.
“Those things are expensive.”

According to the police report the of-
fenders poured gasoline on the lingerie
and ignited it. The police commented, “It
appears that the brassiere was unhooked
before it was ignited.”

The police will continue their investi-
gation tomorrow. “We'll try Davidson
Dry Goods, the laundry, and the Com-

pointa view.” After a seventeen hour
conference with Religion Department
chairperson Daniel Rhodes, however,
Galilei recanted, saying only, “Yes, |
lika de programma just fine.”

Abbott said that the consultants’ report
would be finished early this summer.

mons for more leads,” said Police Chief
Jack Warlick. “The Ruskies are pretty
uptight about all this.”
