Crafting a Performance

Mehta speaks about the conductor’s role

By MIGUEL ABREU

Zubin Mehta, the conductor who has been hailed
by conductor Josef Krips as “the next Toscanini,” lent
his eminent skill and reputation to establish the Donald
B. Plott musical scholarship, which will contribute to
the devlopment of outstanding musical talents at Da-
vidson College by conducting an all-Bach concert in
Love Auditorium 24 January.

Zubin Mehta is the Bombay-born and Vienna-edu-
cated genius; the youngest man ever to lead a major
symphony orchestra and to conduct both the Vienna
and Berlin Philharmonics; the music director for life of
the brilliant Israel Philharmonic and the successor at
the head of the New York Philharmonic of titans of the
baton such as Toscanini, Walter, Mitropoulos, and
Bernstein. In Los Angeles, where Mehta had his first
appointment at the age of 24, he brought the Los An-
geles Philharmonic to maturity during his 16-year te-
nure (1962-1978). In 1978 he conducted his first con-
cert as music director of the New York Philharmonic
before 140,000 people in Central Park.

But Mehta did not come alone; he came accompan-
ied by his friend Joe Robinson, the principal oboist of
the New York Philharmonic, and by William Work-
man, the leading baritone with the Frankfurt Opera
Company, both Davidson graduates. The presence of
Robinson and Workman enriched the already strong
historical flavor of this outstanding musical event. Mo-
reover, by appearing before the carefully picked
chamber orchestra and chorus, Maestro Mehta broke a
fine tradition of systematically refusing guest conduct-
ing offers throughout the world.

With this in mind, his answer to the question “What
made you accept this particular offer?” was loaded
with meaning: “It’s my love and respect for Joe Robin-
son,” the key person to the organization of this musical
festival.

In a short interview after the second rehearsal,
Mehta answered a few questions concerning the or-
chestra, the program chosen, and the language and role
of the conductor in general.

Mr. Mehta, how do you approach working with
a group of musicians who have never played togeth-
er and whom you have never conducted?

They are a fine group of musicians, and we are just
feeling our way through the first rehearsal. By the se-
cond rehearsal it’s already shaping up very well. The
quality of the musicians is so high that it’s no problem.
Moreover, the soloists are first rate, so there’s really no
problem.

How do you approach these works by Bach in
\

The Cantata No. 56 is a carrying of the cross. It’s
very heavy, ponderous, dolorous music, and one has to
take it almost operatically because it is very- descrip-
tive; it talks about the most inner sufferings of man.
Our job is to convince the soloist, or if he has it already
like this gentleman [William Workman], to bring all
these qualities out. The words are very important. He
pauses. You see, everything we’re doing this evening
except for the overture is very descriptive because ev-
ery note that the baritone sings means something.

Do you follow the same specific routine when
you work on a pece of music, or is your course of ac-

tion determined primarily by the piece in question?

Mehta puts a spell on Workman

You see, we learn it architecturally. Classical mus-
ic has to be learned architecturally. You have to know
how the composer built the piece. From bigger sections
you divide it into smaller sections; then you go into the
details. But basically it’s architecture, right up to
Wagner.

Could you elaborate on the choreography, the
language of the conductor?

It should be as clear as possible. We’ re there to help
the musicians, there to make their life easier. We
shouldn’t make it more difficult by inventing signals
that they wouldn’t understand.

Does every conductor have the same basic lan-
guage?

Yes, the same basic language, but it differs like
handwriting.

How is it more than just “louder” and “softer”?

First of all, the composer writes very detailed in-
structions. When you go to Bach’s period, there are not
many instructions; he just writes “loud” and “soft.” But
we have to know from the style of the music, we have
to guess what the composer really means.

In the study we do before we come before an or-
chestra, we have to realize and decide exactly what it is
that the composer wants to transmit, what is the mes-
sage. And that’s what we have to impart to the orches-
tra.

As he was getting ready to leave, Mehta made a fi-
nal observation.

You know, I believe in the end that the two and one
half hours that the public is at the concert, those two
and one half hours of that day, the people who are lis-
tening to the music are at peace. They may not have
been at peace when they enter the hall, or they might
have problems after the concert, but I bélieve during
the concert they are at peace with themselves. And
that’s important. If we can achieve that much, then
that’s important.

That’s important, that’s important, he repeated as
he left.

Plott Gala

Attendance: 1,137
Total amount of money raised:
$250,000 (approx. )
Ticket prices:
$500, 250, $100
Notable Guests:
Past NC Gov. James Holshouser ‘57
Rep. Wyche Fowler ’62 D-GA
Rep. Jim Martin ’57 R-NC

| |
8 ‘THE: DAVIDSONIAN/28 January; 1983
