Stronger Penalties for DUI

If you didn’t get a chance to see the Observer this week, you
should. They’ve been taking a long look at drinking laws and drunk
‘driving. They’ve done a very good job of outlining how the laws do
and don’t work, the courts, the proposed changes of the laws, and
the public’s attitude toward drinking. A lot of people have been
talking about Dean of Students Will Terry’s Outbasket. The Dean’s
paternalistic and patronizing tone made many people mad, as well it
should have. But the insulting language doesn’t negate all the points
epenade shout alcohol at Davidson. Eating popcorn and diagnising
cecktell parties in advertising may seem silly, but there are still
quite a few bad attitudes toward drinking at Davidson.

It. will take more than exhortations from the Dean to alter
attitudes. Until people stop thinking that it is prestigous to drink
. huge amounts, no changes will be made. Until people realize that it
isn’t macho to drive while drunk, people will die, maybe your
friends. Until people tell other people that what they’re doing is
dangerous and stupid, they won't change. So long as people think
drinking to excess is attractive, it will go on, and people will be hurt,
both physically and emotionally.

The North Carolina legislature is considering several bills to
combat the drunk driver. The one that affects students the most
would raise the drinking-age to 21. Of course, we are against this.
There is no need to go over again the arguments about “old enough
to fight and vote, old enough to drink.” It also unjustly penalizes the
majority of young adults who drink responsibly. Like it or not,
alcohol is a part of college life. It will remain so whether it is legal or
not.

We do, however, favor toughening the penalties for drunk
driving. There is no excuse for driving after drinking. We don’t care
if one drinks, even to excess occasionally, When a drunk gets
behind the wheel, though, he’s out to kill us and himself. Drunk
drivers should go to jail on ‘the first offense. Subsequent arrests
should mean loss of license, more jail, and big fines. It is not a
simple mistake; it is potential murder.

We do not mean to lecture; the Dean can handle that. There is
nothing wrong with drinking. There is little wrong with getting
drunk. At times, for the right people at the right time, it is exactly
the right thing to do. Davidson has far fewer problems with alcohol
than most other schools. Davidson could probably stand a few more
drinkers. However, the problems we do have cannot be ignored. We
do not want to lose any classmates to a drunk driver, or future
alumni to alcholism.

Unbelievable!

Mouthwash swabs!
_ Breathless 80's!

When I was in Cashion’s recently, a woman rushed up to me,
gasping, “Ann,Ann! Come look! You have to see this! Hurry,
hurry!” Her enthusiasm was boundless, and seeing as how Iwas
tired of scanning The Enquirer, I followed her. ¢

By the time we reached the Health & Beauty Aids section, my
guide was.breathless. “How much do you love the Health & Beauty
Aids section?” she asked. A Jot, I thought to myself, but I decided to
play it cool.

“Oh, you know, pretty much. .
guess.”

“Well, I love it and I think it has more Good Things per square
foot than any other place in the world.” A statistician, I thought. Not
bad. She swung her arms back and forth, hopping from foot to foot.
She picked up shampoo bottles of all varieties, enouraging me to
examine them myself. “Shampoo!” she screeched’ “Conditioner!”
Running to the far end of the aisle, she gathered toothpaste and
dental floss. “Three colors in one tube! Unbelievable!” She opened
a box and squeezed a healthy sample into her palm. She ate it.

“Aw look, no kidding. Mouthwash. Here—try some!” She took
a swig. “Good thing, you know?”

After thirty seconds the woman had collected more than an
armload of Health & Beauty aids (“Swabs! Cotton balls! Band Aids!
Stridex! Pursettes!”), and she began dropping things. Fortunately,
she had attracted.a sizeable coterie of young children who had snuck
away from their parents; these children picked up the products and
handed them each to the woman. “Hey lady, heré’s your lotioit.”

“Thanks, oh thanks! Gosh, there’s just so much! Everybody,
have some. They’re fun! Hair spray, even!”

At this point I realized the woman was serious. “Do you mean to -
say that you really enjoy these products?”

“Oh yes, of course. Look at this soap—it’s just like Jell-O.”

I excused myself and returned to the magazine rack. Mothers
hastily retrieved their children. It has been a long week.

. more than Paper Goods, I

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Devideonian ie published Fridays during the schoo!
yeer by the students of Davidson College. Address cor-
seapendence to: Devideonion, Box 218, Oavidaon, NC
28896. Phone 706/882-2008, ext. 148 end 149. Offices lo-
cated on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subsarip-
tions cost $10 per yeer. Advertising rates available on
request. Second class postege no. USPS 146.306 1

Stewart Cauley, Editor - Tom Pafford, Executive Editor

Debby Williams, Fine Arts Editor

David Resnik, News Editor ' litor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

Jeff Mann, Assistant News Editor
Jeff Dempsey, Features Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor

Ann Meador, Production Editor
Anderson Scott, Photography Editor

Frank Hague
Tom Schilling, Circulation Manager
Scot Myers, Graphics

a
= ers

Jeff Danese. Advertising Managers’

Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Clare Eckert, Jonathan
Glance, Joe Jaworski, Matt Morris, John Verdi, An-
drew Wilson, Features Staff

{

Boyd Blackbur, Duncan Fraser, Carl Hobson,
Paulette Kurani, Anne Lambert, Tim McGaughey, El-
odie McMillan, Peggy Pierotti, Mike. Tantillo, News
Staff .

Kara Gilmore, Scott Huie, Garry Sullivan, Sports Staff

Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, John Lyday, Ginna
McGee, Laura McGee, John Ruppenthal, Photography

Staff, j

Rob Hollenbeck, Production Staff —
