By WAYNE MACGRUDER

Professor Bruce Jackson was smiling
after receiving the Thomas Jefferson
Award at the Fall Convocation
November 4.

Given to one faculty member each
year, the Award honors the recipient’s
accomplishment as a professor and his
leadership in intellectual inspiration on
campus.

Although the award does not entail
any scholarship or grant for specific
study, it is nevertheless a significant
honor.

Jackson is currently the Richardson
Professor of Mathematics and Chairman
of the mathemics Department.

In presenting the award to Jackson,
Vice-president for Academic Affairs and
Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmer-
mann commended him as “a man of great
accomplishment, he has lived his life so
always to place the deed before the doer.
His students know of his talent and pa-
tience — they have literally beaten a path
to his door. His department has valued
his leadership as chairman in broadening
and strengthening an already impressive
curriculum. His colleagues have recog-

ATO Cooks

By MARGARITA LASSALETTA

Forty-seven years at Davidson may
seem a long time for most, but two
people on campus think it is far too short.
ATO’s cooks, Sue White and Ann
Beatty, will serve their last meal next
week after a combined stay of 47 years
when the house closes at Thanksgiving.

Sue has been a fixture at ATO since
she began working there thirty years ago.
Since then, she has witnessed many
changes at Davidson and ATO. She has
seen hundreds of Davidson men
graduate, the fraternity change to an eat-
ing house, and the arrival of women and
black students.

Annie, at ATO for 17 years, origi-
nally worked for Pi Kappa Alpha at a
time when dieticians designed the menu.
She finds ATO members “friendlier,
more understanding, and easier to get
along with.”

nized his ability by electing him to an
endless string of committees, and, at
last, to the office of Vice President Pro
Tem...

Jackson graduated from Davidson in
1950 with a Bachelor of Science degree.

”

Friday, November 11, 1983/The Davidsonian 3

Bruce Jackson Wins Thomas Jefferson Award

After one year of teaching at a prep
school, he served two years in the Army.
He earned his PhD at Duke University.
He was appointed to the Davidson facul-
ty in 1956. With the exception of leaves
and sabbaticals, he has been at Davidson

Peggy Pierotti

To Retire After 47 Years

Both cooks have their own special
memories of the time they have spent as
cooks at Davidson. Sue recalls an eve-
ning near her birthday when she saw a
group of students standing in her yard.
“My children told me they were Ku Klux
Klan people,” Sue said. When a girl
started singing “Happy Birthday” in the
front yard, she realized that it was a
group of Davidson students. Sue let them
in and discovered that they had baked a
cake for her and had come over to give
her a surprise birthday party.

Annie said, “The most exciting thing
that ever happened to me was on
Mother's Day.” Some of the students got
together and chipped in some money for
a surprise gift for Annie. They went to
her house and delivered flowers and a
check. “That was the most exciting thing
that ever happened to me.”

Now that the house is ctosing after so

ceric

ATO cooks Sue White and Ann Beatty

Kevin Horan

many years, Sue is sad. “I really feel
bad,” she said. “I’m gonna miss them,”
Annie agrees. “I have lived in Davidson
all my life. It’s going to be really hard
leaving the college. I can’t retire.”

Although Sue wishes the house
would open again next year, she realizes
the truth of the situation, “It’s very hard
getting a job at this time of year and at my
age. You just can’t find a job.”

ever since.

Last spring Jackson studied applied
mathematical models in preparation for a
July workshop which he and two as-
sociate professors conducted.

Using mathematical models, the
workshop studied “application of par-
ticular mathematical ideas in various
fields of social science,” Jackson said.
The workshop, which included ten
Davidson professors and six visiting pro-
fessors from Johnson C. Smith Univer
sity, applied the models to problems of
epidemics, transportation problems. in
the Sudan, and electrical energy de-
mand.

Such useful work and inspirational
teaching have earned him the Award.
One of his Calculus students said
Jackson was a professor students could
always count on for extra help and pa-
tience.

“Students have a lot more to learn
these days,” Jackson said, and he added
that this is a challenge for any mathema-
tics teacher.

His answer to such a challenge is a
method of educating that “involves the
student in an active process of learning.”

Of Service

They have both started considering
jobs for the future. Annie is anxious to
find something as soon as possible. “I
hope I can get something before next
year.’ Sue agrees, although she is a little
more selective. She wants a job “as long
as it’s not too hard on me. Of course I
may retire, but I’d much rather work if I
can.

WDAV Radiothon
Reaches $50,000 Mark

By MARY EDMONDS

Classical music filled the air in the
Morrison Room this week as volunteers
answered phones and musicians enter-
tained to support WDAV’s fifth annual
Radiothon. By Thursday pledges totaled
over $50,000.

WDAY sponsors this drive each year
to raise money to continue their program-
ming and make station improvements.
The station operates on a yearly budget
of $213,000, part of which comes from
the College. The other part must come
from listeners. This year WDAV, which
has the ninth largest audience in the
Charlotte area of a 22-station market,
must have at least $80,000 from its sup-
porters to continue functioning. They are
aiming, however, for $100,000.

By Wednesday 791 out of an esti-
mated 36,000 member audience had
pledged $39,417, according to Public
Relations Director Marilyn Gilmore,
Pledges ranged from $10 to $1,500. Last’
year the Radiothon raised $76,000.

Program Director Theresa Woody
said that they would use the money col-

lected this year “to buy more records, to
increase the power from 20,000 to
50,000 watts to better serve the Charlotte
area, and to buy a new transmitter.”

To encourage listener phone-in and
student involvement, WDAV_ invited
many area musicians to perform live in
the Morrison Room. These _ perfor-
mances, usually at 2 or 3 p.m. and 6
p.m., are open to the campus and com-
munity. Thus far the artists have in-
cluded The Chamber Chorus of the
Oratorio Singers of Charlotte, the North
Carolina Opera, and the Carolina Brass.

This weekend’s entertainment in-
cludes the Charlotte Symphony Or-
chestra, the Young Suzuki Violinists,
and clarinetist Robert Listoken and his
wife, pianist Ann.

The Radiothon will end Sunday with
the playing of the number one song of the
classical music lover’s top 20, which was
determined by the votes of the listening
audience. Although the Radiothon is
drawing to a close, WDAV still needs
students to answer phones.
