Wednesday, December 14, 1983/The Davidsonian 3

Julie Abrams Studies Eating Disorders And Taste

By ALLISON WILLS

Senior psychology major Julie Ab-
rams is studying the correlation between
eating disorders and taste as part of re-
search for her honors thesis.

Under the supervision of two David-
son psychology professors, Abrams has
been soliciting volunteers to participate
in a taste test. The response has been
poor, however. “People are scared of
this, but they shouldn’t be,” she
explained. “It’s not associated with the
Dean’s office or any sort of counseling,
and we are making every effort to ensure
the anonymity of the participants.”

Psychology professors James Walker
and Cole Barton have different realms of
expertise to bring to the experiment.
Walker specializes in taste and olfaction,
and Barton is interested primarily in fam-
ily therapy, which has proven the most
effective means of curing eating prob-
lems.

“I took a class in sensation and per-
ception last year and became very inter-
ested in taste perception,” Abrams said.

Julie Abrams
“Dr. Walker and I began talking about
the physiological aspects of taste, and
then we considered how this affected eat-
ing problems, which got Dr. Barton in-
terested in the project.”

“Our goal is to try to approach it with
an open mind,” Barton said. “We've
read the latest psychological and medical
literature about taste as related to eating
problems, and there is no clear picture.”
Barton stressed that subjectivity is a
major problem in psychological studies,

Peggy Pierotti

“especially in adolescent psychology be-
cause it is difficult io determine the ab-
normal from the normal.” Often these
determinations are based on “the judg-
ment of parents, medical opinion or what
looks good as determined by culture,” he
said.

In this project they hope to overcome
all prejudices to arrive at a clear, objec-
tive study of the relationship of taste to
problem eating. “We are interested in
any circumstance in which somebody
feels they do not have the control over
eating that they would like to have,” Bar-
ton said.

Though Barton declined to be
explicit about the taste tests in order to
avoid skewing the results, he did say that
a possible test might examine the degree
to which participants taste sweets and
salts or how sensitive they are to slight
differences in sweetness or saltiness.

Another important issue over which
there has been some discussion is
whether quality or quantity is more desir-
able to human taste buds.

Barton believes that Davidson will be
an interesting place to study the problem
because “in college, students are respon-
sible for making their own decisions
about eating, sometimes for the first time
in their lives” and “possibly the problem
is more common at Davidson due to the
kind of students here.”

Barton described the typical victim of
an eating disorder as a young woman
who makes too many demands on herself
and is never satisfied with her perfor-
mance.

The tests will not take more than an
hour and twenty minutes of the partici-
pant’s time, and more volunteers are des-
perately needed. Participants’ identity
will be known only to the people in the
study, and a research report will be avail-
able to those who complete the study.
Interested students should contact Julie
Abrams at 892-4451 or leave your name,
P.O. Box number and phone number ina
mail slut marked “Taste Project’ in
Room 105, Chambers.

India Group: Program Offers Long-Term Value

By ELIZABETH WHITE
and ANN MEADOR

When deciding to take a term away
from Davidson, some students think
about an internship in a large city such as
New York or Washington, others won-
der about taking a term at a different
school, and many consider going abroad
to study in Europe. All hope to spice up
their college years with a real, different
experience. One group of Davidson stu-
dents took the idea of “broadening your
horizons” to an extreme; they spent three
months living and studying in India.

Jenny Barnhardt, Elizabeth Elkin,
Beth Geiger, Kurt Henjes, Dan Plaut,
and James Rozelle represented Davidson
in a program sponsored by the South At-
lantic States Association of Asian and
African Studies (SASAAS). The pro-
gram was started four years ago with a
group going every two years, so this
group was the third one to participate.
The 13 also included students from
UNCC, Appalachian State, Guilford and
Skidmore. Their advisor was Dr. David
White, a history professor at Appalac-
hian.

The students lived in the Hotel Kan-
chi in Madras, India, and studied in a
special program at the University of
Madras. The last three weeks of their trip
they travelled as a group all over India,
briefly visiting major cities and tourist at-
tractions.

Why India? Students had various
reasons. Junior Elizabeth Elkin wanted
to study a less-developed country and to
experience something radically different
from Davidson. Senior Beth Geiger, a
religion major, says she became fasci--
nated with Buddhism and the “com-
pletely different mindset of. Easterners”
and felt the only way she could com-
pletely understand it was to experience
the Indian culture. James Rozelle was
eager to experience a totally different en-

-
Students on the India program met
with India’s Prime Minister Indira
Ghandi for over an hour. Pictured are
(clockwise from left): ASU student; se-
vironment, somewhere out of the west-
ern world.

The students all said adjustment to
such a different way of life was gradual;
one even described it as “horrifying at
first.” The heat (often above 100 de-
grees), the crowds (Madras has a popula-
tion of 4 to 5 million), and the Indian
food were among the first difficult obsta-
cles.

Requirements for the Program

Director of South Asian Studies I.
Job Thomas, who oversees the selection
of Davidson participants in the India pro-
gram, said the program was begun as a
non-Western alternative to the other
study-abroad programs Davidson offers.

“Adapting to a culture is a skill one

tad

curity; Elizabeth Elkin; Beth Geiger;
David White (ASU professor); ASU
student; Daniel Plaut; security; Skid-
more student; Karis Herrnstein; Kurt

acquires,” he said, and he views the pro-
gram as an excellent opportunity: for
Davidson students to develop this skill.

The academic program is rigorous,
according to Thomas, and students are
required to write a research paper based
on fieldwork done in Madras. ‘There is
no chance to get out of practice,”
Thomas said of the workload.

Offered every other year, the pro-
gram is designed for juniors and seniors,
but occasionally a sophomore will be ac-
cepted. Recommendations as well as
grade point averages and number of

-courses: taken on India are required for

the application.
Regular Davidson tuition and federal

ing expenses.

Henjes; Jenny Barnhardt; James Roz-
zelle; Steve Stine; Guilford student;
USEFI official; Indira Ghandi; UNCC
student.

Long-term Value

“When travel in India influences a
person, it influences him for life,”
Thomas said. “It’s not like a Christmas
cruise to the Caribbean.”

Senior Tom Pafford traveled to India
in 1981 as part of the India program, and
he echoes Thomas’s belief. “India made
me appreciate understanding, because |
couldn’t be an Indian,” he said. “All I
could do is understand what Indians are
like.”

Spending a term in India ultimately
led to confusion for Pafford, for ‘‘after |
got back, I considered the reasons for my
travel more than before I left,” he said.

“You find ways to relate your travel
to other things you do, even if it’s just
going to the Par-4.”
