The Davidsonian / Friday, April 22, 1983 5

FOCUS: Student Government Association

By DAN VOORHIS

The Student Government Associa-
tion is the official voice of the Davidson
student body.

The SGA’s function is, according to
its by-laws, “to share with the Board of
Trustees, the faculty, and the administra-
tion the responsibility of developing and
maintaining Davidson as a superior
academic community.”

It both administers student affairs and
represents them to other organizations at
Davidson. “The SGA has a two-fold pur-
pose. First, it is program oriented, pro-
viding services for the benefit of the stu-
dents. Second, the SGA represents the
student body, acting as a channel for stu-
dent opinion and as a guardian of student
interest,” said SGA president Hunter
Monroe.

The SGA ‘President leads the organi-
zation by presiding over both the Senate,
the main legislative body, and the Senate
Executive Committee (SEC), the main
executive body. The President also sits
on the Student Conduct Council; the Ad-
visory Board on Fiscal, Personnel, and
Development Affairs; and the Council on
Campus Life.

The President is also the only student
who has the right to attend and speak at
Faculty and Trustee meetins.

Directly below stands the Vice-presi-
dent who, as stated in the by-laws, ‘‘as-
sists the president in the execution of his
duties.” He serves as a member of the
Senate, SEC, and various councils and
boards. He also chairs the Residence
Hall Council. Lentz Ivey is the newly
elected Vice-President.

The Senate is the main forum of the
SGA. Its powers lie mostly in creating
study committees, formulating and over-
seeing policy and delegating authority
for the allocation of funds for student or-

ganizations.

The Senate consists of three members
from each class; one from each dorm
(three from Belk); one off-campus sena-
tor for each 100 students; President and
Vice-President of the SGA; and the
freshmen advisor, who serves until
freshmen are elected.

The Senate Executive Committee
oversees the Senate by discussing perti-
nent issues and proposing the agenda for
the Senate. The SEC also receives and
reviews reports from other SGA agencies
and submits them with recommendation.

The SGA may, by atwo-thirds senate
majority, petition the Board of Trustees
for direct action in a vital matter. Most
recently, former president Tim Johnson
offered the student referencum con-
demning the semester proposal. Last
year, SGA petitions helped defeat a
change in the grading system.

Undemeath the Senate are the vari-
ous committees, councils and boards.
Committees consider such matters as the
Senate may refer to them and make rec-
ommendations. They are subject to the
senate. They include: Charters and By-

Law Committee, Educational Affairs
Committee, Finance Committee, Secu-
rity and Parking Committee, and the
Union and Social Life Committee.

The councils are semi-autonomous,
having enough authority to operate, but
ultimately subject to the senate. They in-
clude: Residence Hall Council, Ac-
tivities Tax Council, Elections Council,
and Intramural Athletic Council.

The boards are fully independent but
their by-laws must be approved by the
Senate. The boards include: Union board
and Publications board.

SGA Plays Advisory Role

By JOHN RUPPENTHAL

The SGA can be actively involved in
policy decisions, not directly as many
students seem to feel that it should, but
indirectly in an advisory role, according
to several administrators.

The SGA has no vote in either faculty
or trustee decisions. This apparently
leads many students to conclude that the
SGA is merely a symbol of student
power, that the administration of the Col-
lege surpasses any student control other
than in matters not vital to the future
course of Davidson life.

But Vice-president for Academic Af-
fairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price
Zimmermann feels that one should not
underestimate the SGA’s indirect influ-
ence. “The administration listens very
carefully to the SGA,” he said. “The stu-
dent body President is allowed to attend
faculty meetings where he can speak
whenever the spirit moves him.” Zim-
mermann said that although th SGA isn’t
organized to determine academic policy,
he feels that since he has been at David-
son the SGA has “been a positive force”
in improving student life.

“Take a gnome home to mom”

A drawing will be held on

Thursday, May 5 for a gnome

called “Mom”

No purchase necessary to enter

Mother’s Day Special
|
|

THOMAS F. CLARK STUDIO

|

|
1920 GREY ROAD
892-5859

“The students who have been elected
are interested in representing the student
body constructively in determining and
regulating student activities,” Zimmer-
mann said.

Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross
expressed similar opinions on the impor-
tance of the SGA. However, she noted
that the SGA president determines the
SGA’s effectiveness by making sure that
student opinions are represented in ad-
ministration and trustee meetings. “The
president,” she said, “must make an ef-
fort to actively show interest in adminis-
trative proceedings. He is often the only
person from the SGA that trustees have
an opportunity to solicit advice from on a
personal basis.”

Board of Trustees President Fred
Stair also stressed that a personal rapport
between the President of the SGA and
trustee members can play an important
part in determining the extent of student
representation. Stair added, however,
that trustee decisions don’t depend en-
tirely on the SGA’s advice on student
opinions. “The trustees have tried, in re-
cent years, to use many opportunities to

come to Davidson and get to know the
students personally,” Stair said, adding
that “in a school as small as Davidson,
we have an opportunity to get to know
people.”

The lack of understanding between
the SGA and administration is the most
difficult problem in the relationship, ac-
cording to Ross. She said that Davidson
students are idealistic in the changes they
want at their college and “often don’t un-
derstand the compromises” that the ad-
ministration and faculty must make in in-
itiating these changes. Improving dis-
course between the two groups is the
most important step toward building stu-
dent-administration relations and_in-
creasing the SGA's effectiveness, ac-
cording to Ross.

“The more we talk to each other, the
more information that is available about
SGA activities, the more understanding
and trust can develop” between the two
groups,” she said. Ross fears that mis-
conceptions, mistrust, and apathy can re-
sult because students often are not aware
of what the SGA is or is not supposed to
be doing.

DO YOU WANT TO FLY?

Face it.

-you've always wanted to fly! Many of us have

had the feeling. . . and for some it has never gone away.

If you have that feeling, then you're in luck. Air Force ROTC
Flight Instruction Program (FIP) is avaltable to you. It's design-
ed fo feach you the basics of flight through flying lessons in
small aircraft at a civilian operated flying school.

day.

The program is an EXTRA for cadets who can qualify to
become Air Force pilotstprough Air Force ROTC. Taken during
the senior yeor in college, FIP is the first step for the codet who
is going on to Air Force jet pilot training after graduotion.

This ts ail reserved for cadets who want to get their tite off
the ground. . . with Air Force silver pilot wings. Check It out to-

Gateway to a grea! way of life.
