News Shorts

Presidential Search Consultants

Meet Students

By JEFFREY MANN

The faculty and SGA are currently se-
lecting the advisory committees that
will help the Board of Turstees in choos-
ing a new president to replace Sam
Spencer, who plans to retire 1 July
1983.

SGA signups for interested studebnts
end today at 2:00 at the Union desk.
SGA President Tim Johnston, Vice-
president Boe Young, Chancellor Mark
Oldenburg, Senator Burt Taylor, and
senior class President Sherburne Laugh-
lin will interview the candidates before
selecting the five-member committee
by next Friday 28 January, Johnston
said.

Johnston said the exact role of the
committee in relation to the Trustee
committee which will make the final de-
cision is not yet defined. “The Trustees
did say that the job will involve a lot of
work, a lot of time and a really definite
commitment as well as confidentiality ,”
he said.

Nominations for the faculty advisory

committee will close today with ballot-—

ing next week. In accordance with the
Faculty By-laws, the Professional Af-
fairs Committee nominated ten candi-
dates for the five positions. Additional
candidates can be placed on the ballot if
nominated by five faculty members.
“My anticipation is that the faculty
committee will be involved all the way

Students and faculty made suggestions to Dr. Frederick Ness and
Dr. Ronald Stead of the Presidential Search Consultants

through; reading dossiérs, interviewing
candidates, and making the final nomi-
nation. That’s the way it was done be-
fore [in 1968 when Pres. Spencer was
selected] and I hope it will again,” said
Vice-chairman of the Faculty David
Kaylor.

Chairman of the Board of Trustees
Fred Stair could not be reached for com-
ment about the Trustee Search Commit-
tee. Dr. Stair has not yet announced the
members of the committee.

Drs. Frederick Ness and Ronald Stead
of the Presidential Search Consultation
Service held an open meeting with stu-
dents on Wednesday. A letter from
Board of Trustees Chairman Fred Stair

described the PSCS as a “non-profit
consulting group . . . to assist us at the
beginning of our search for a new presi-
dent.” He added that the group is “not
here to identify or select the final candi-
dates for us, but rather to help assure
that the selection process is handled
with the greatest effectiveness.”

Comments at the open meeting
echoed concerns at the Trustees’ open
meeting on Friday 7 January. Students
and faculty raised, among others, the
issues of the role of the president as a
fundraiser as opposed to a campus lead-
er, women and minorities at Davidson,
and the requirement that the president
be a Presbyterian.

Pritchard Attains Culinary Fame

By CARL HOBSON ’86

Davidson’s culinary delights made
the big-time last month as the Associat-
ed Press spread the tale of Carl Prit-
chard’s “Garbage Burger,” which
topped the “most delicious” column of a
Washington and Lee University poll.

Washington and Lee’s news depart-
- ment took advantage of the Food Ser-

vice: Director’s Convention to poll in-. .

coming delegates about what students
were eating, and not eating.
Davidson's delegates promptly told

of Director Carleton Pritchard's
ground-beef brainstorm, the “garbage
burger.”

' Mr. Pritchard says he and: the staff
just made it up of. about everything:
- hamburger, bacon bits, pickles, onions,
mushrooms, olives, - tomatoes, ‘and
cheese.

Unfortunately the concoction, ‘basi- |

cally “mixture of McDonalds, Wendy's
and the backyard grill” said Pritchard,
didn’t hit it off. with the students.
“We've had to put it together right in
front of them‘ and it didn’ t look too ap-
petizing.”

». Washington and Lee Food Service
Director Jerry Darrell . attributed the

“garbage burger’s’’ instant-notoriety. to

ts‘name. “I just. can't see: students. get-
. ting excited about something called.a

‘garbage burger’. - it immediately

i grabbed the:attention of the delegates.”

It also prabbed the attention of the
Associated : Press. The Washington
Post, New York Times, and the Char-
lotte.Observer all carried stories: about

the -garbage burger. Pritchard even .

heard from a couple radio stations, one
of which, WUTQ Country AM of Uti-

-- eavasked:Mr. Pritchard if he-would send

them a’sample for alive taste test.

Jacob’s Ladder

“Jacob’s Ladder,” a seven-foot tall
welded steel work by the late Charles-
ton, South Carolina sculptor Willard
Hirsch, will be dedicated at 4:45 p.m.
this Monday in Vail Commons at Da-
vidson College. ’

The sculpture, which depicts the as-
cending and descending angels of Jac-
ob’s dream as told in Genesis 28:10-29,
is a gift of Mr. and Mrs. James D. Vail
III of Lake Forest, Ill. , for whose family
Vail Commons is named. It will occupy
a space on the north side of the building,
on a landing between the first and se-
cond floors.

Hirsch was born in Charleston in
1905 and attended the College of Cha-
rleston. He went to New York as a
young man and studied at the School of
the National Academy of Design and
the Beaux Arts Institute in the early
1930's.

Many of Hirsch’s works have found
their way into gallery and museum col-
leetions, private homes and gardens.
One of them was selected to represent
South Carolina in IBM’s collection,
Sculpture of the Western Hemisphere.

Vail is executive director of training
for American Hospital Supply Corp. in
Lake Forest, and serves on the David-
son College Board of Trustees. Two of
his sons have attended Davidson.

Ammar to lead
Y-Corps

By TIM MCGAUGHEY ’85

Newly elected Y-Student Service
Corps president Doug Ammar ‘84
hopes to increase the communication
among “Y members, town leaders, and
all Davidson students.”

Ammar wants the Y to be a conduit
“for exchange of college resources and
town needs.”

The Y has planned a retreat to Bon-
darken Camp in Flat Rock, North Carol-
ina this weekend. Ammar sees this trip
as a way to establish communication
with the first of his three groups: Y-
Corp members.

Treasurer Chris Blake believes that

this trip will “give members a goal. for
‘the organization.”

In order to communicate better with
its second target, the town of Davidson,
Y leaders met on Thursday 6 January
with town leaders. Community liason
Pete Skillern ’85 wants students to be

“aware of the needs of the community.”

(Continued on page 5)

THE DAVIDSONIAN/21 January 1983
