The Davidsonian/Friday, September 16, 1983 15

Davidson opened its season at home against Wake Forest yesterday

Hockey Sports New Look

By KARA GILMORE

Yes fall sports fans, it’s that wonder-
ful time of year again — Field Hockey
Season! This year’s team will have quite
a different look from the teams of the past
two years. Gone are some well-known
names, but replacing them are some
bright new faces. They include freshmen
Katrina “Kat” Lehman, Heather McKee.
Micheline “Mich” Sears and Shannon
Stowe; Junior Ann Hunter; and Senior
Andrea Miller. Returning from a year
abroad are Courtney Hall and Leslie
Bryan. Another new face on the field will
be that of the new coach Patty Daley.

Daley brings with her a great deal of
hockey playing and coaching experi-
ence. She completed her undergraduate
work at the University of Maryland and
her graduate work in Special Education
at Indiana University. Daley has played
for the University of Maryland, for the
Southeast team and at various USA
Olympic Development camps. She has
coached high school teams, Washington
Association Teams, and the Southeast IV

Daley looks forward to a promising
season but refuses to make predictions
because she has seen few of her oppo-
nents.

This past Sunday the team travelled
to Duke to take part in a preseason umpir-
ing clinic. Teams scrimmaged each other
for two 25-minute periods while new of-
ficials are “rated.” Daley commented,
“The games were good for seeing where
we were conditioning-wise, and how we
pertormed under pressure in all areas—
attacking, midfield, and defense. They
were also good for moving people
around and seeing how different combi-
nations worked.” Daley felt that the team
played two very good, strong halves (of
six) for this point in the season. During
these stretches the team dominated oppo-
nents and controlled the ball well. Unfor-
tunately, the squad had trouble getting
the ball in the net.

Thursday the team opened its season
at home against Wake Forest. In the fu-
ture, Daley will be looking for more
scoring and for consistency throughout

Regiodar Tear Dalkey winds to Davie ko too menF --gymediang indiestors will

son from Hollins College in Virginia
where last year she taught and coached
both basketball and field hockey.

pee

be home games, Saturday at 10 a.m.
against James Madison and Monday at 4
p.m. against High Point.

[Camus Clothes

See our half price clean-out |

er ef

of all summer wear

John Hock & Sor.

Downtown Mooresville

} for Men and Women

By Randy Stroud

“ty

Men’s Cross-Country
Begins New Season

By RAND HARTSELL
Senior Frank Ivey will captain this
year’s Davidson Wildcat men’s cross-

_crountry team. The Wildcat Harriers

open their seven meet 1983 schedule at
Duke tomorrow.

According to coach Sterling Martin,
now in his sixteenth season as coach, this
year’s men’s team is potentially stronger
than last year’s team. “We’ll certainly
have a lot of depth,” says Martin.

“Frank Ivey took some needed time
off during the summer,” continues Mar-
tin. During the ’82 spring track season,
Ivey — the team’s captain — set a school
record in the 800-meter run and estab-
lished a personal record in the 1500-
meter run. Even with these accomplish-
ments as credentials, Ivey feels he is a
better long-distance runner than middle-
distance runner.

“T hope Frank will be in the top ten of
the Southern Conference Champion-
ship,” says Martin. Ivey finished 14th
last fall. As for other competition, Mar-
tin expects Ivey to be a front runner in
nearly every meet. He finished second in
the NAIA Regional qualifying meet last
fall. Although some formidable teams
have been added to the region, most not-
ably Liberty Baptist College. Martin sees

By PAM HARMANN
The Women’s Cross Country team
opens its season tomorrow against the

Duke Women’s Club Cross Country
team. The meet at Duke will begin at
10:30 a.m.

A solid squad boosts Coach Sterling
Martin’s optimism for the upcoming sea-
son. He has several top runners returning
ay well Ow “wa lew-runners to work
with. Senior Tamara Foreman captains
this year’s team. Other returnees include
juniors Susie Dresser. Jean Webb, Sarah
Patterson, and sophmore Judy Dalton.

Senior Adelyn Lutz is new to the
team, as are freshmen Ginger Sullivan,
Laeta Kalogridis, and Alison McEntire.
Martin feels that all these women have
the potential to become top Davidson
runners.

Coach Martin has been head coach of
cross country for ten years, and assisted

little reason for Ivey to finish out of the
top five in the October 8 qualifying race.

With Ivey leading the team, many of
the other eleven posisitions on the team
will be filled by veterans. Senior Brian
Ziclinki, senior Tim Cassell, junior Jim
Trotter, junior Jim Rogers, sophomore
Bob Watkins, sophomore — Taylor
Simpson, and sophomore Frank Hague
all wore the Black and Red for Davidson
last fall.

Expect to see a strong freshman con-
tingent challenge these runners led by
Alabama state mile champ Greg Fore-
man (brother of women’s team captain
Tamara Foreman) and 9:36 two-miler
Trey James. Although Martin is excited
by the potential of these two freshmen,
he maintains a cautiously optimistic out-

‘look.

With regard to the team as a whole.
Martin holds an attitude of reserved ex-
pectation. “As of right now,” says Mar-
tin, “we're looking at a third or fourth at
the NAIA Regional meet, tenth or so at
the State championship race, and
seventh, possibly sixth at Southern Con-
ference.”

After Duke, the Cats face perenially
tough Lynchburg. Appalachian State,
and Pembroke State among many others.

six years prior to that. Comparing this
team to teams of previous years, he said,
“Given the fact that we were a young
team last year. I feel we can improve our
5-2 record. We hope to win the NAIA
district 26 meet again to qualify for na-
tionals.”

The women’s cross country team
placed first in the NATA district 26 meet

Women’s Cross Country
Season Opens At Duke

‘fast yearyatouten ot the Novi Carunud -

State meet. and fifteenth overall in the
NAIA championship at Kenosha, Wis-
consin.

The meet against Appalachian State
University is the high point of the season.
ASU is a strong team and will prove to be
a tough meet. Upcoming meets, include
Lynchburg: and Emory, September 24.
and Appalachian October 1.

Martin concluded, “For a team with a
young tradition here at Davidson. there's
been a good success and we definitely
hope to continue that.”

“Stone”

Athlete Of The Week

This week’s Athlete of the Week is senior Will
Bynum. Against
Bynum, a 5°10"
Terrier drives almost singlehandedly. Bynum had 10
solo tackles and assisted on eight others. To top that he
picked off a Terrier pass. Stone. a team captain and two-
year starter, hails from Rocky Mount, North Carolina.

Wofford last Saturday.
. 210 Ib. linebacker, stopped numerous

>
