The Davidsonian/Friday, September 30, 1983 3

By REW WILSON

The Humanities Program may un-
dergo major revisions if a proposal sub-
mitted by professor Robert Manning re-
ceives approval from the National En-
dowment for the Humanities (NEH).

The proposal arrives in Washington,
DC, tomorrow to be evaluated. If it is ac-
cepted, the Humanities Program will re-
ceive up to $300,000 in funds for the pro-
posed restructuring.

Manning worked with both first and
second year humanities faculty members
to engineer the proposed changes in the
syllabus and in the teaching methods.
The main thrust of the proposal is to de-
emphasize the broad historical swep of
Humes and focus more on particular
“chunks” of historical or thematic mate-
rial.

English Professor Anthony Abbott
stresses that the overiding change in the
program will be a shift toward pursuing
“different methodologies for different
units.”

The revised second year syllabus in-
cludes such major innovations as spen-
dingf three weeks studying Dostoevski’s
The Brothers Karamazov and reserving
the final month of classes for concen-
trated study of one modern issue. Profes-
sors will oversee topics such as Women’s
Iggues | ~

World c concerns 1s according to ‘their a areas

of interest and/or expertise. As an effort
to promote proper expression of ideas

through writing, a summertime faculty

Four More

By JOHN GATHINGS

Editor’ s note: This is the second part
of a two-part story on Davidson's new
professors for 1983-84.

Wolfgang Christian

Wolfgang Christian arrived at David-
son this year as a new assistant professor
in the physics department. Christian re-
ceived his bachelor’s and doctoral de-
grees from North Carolina State Univer-
sity. When asked why he became inter-
ested in physics he responded, “I find
physics fascinating. It gives one the
license ‘to dabble in and examine any
facet of nature.”

Christian is interested in carrying out
research on a limited scale while at
Davidson and plans to involve students
in the work. “At a small school like
Davidson you don’t want to bring in re-
search projects that tie up faculty and
make teaching secondary. You want to
have small, high quality research pro-
jects that you can involve students in.”

To aid in these projects, he is cur-
rently at work building the first lasers to
be used for research projects in the phys-
ics department here. In addition, he is
also at work modifying the computers in
the physics department to work in con-
junction with the lasers. “If the computer
doesn’t have the right code to communi-
cate with the equipment, it won’t work,”
he said. Once the computers are mod-
ified they will be able to automatically
control all of the functions of the laser, as
well as provide vital data.

. cover

-GhaBges «aS °

Robert J. Manning

writing institute will encourage profes-
sors to share their knowledge with one
another as well as learning how best to
teach writing. Dr. Bliss will conduct the
proposed writing institute.

Another proposed change is to focus
on a three-city area among Florence,
Nuremburg, and London in order to dis-
developments throughout the
Ages.

First-year Humanities director Max
Polley outlines the major first-year

chronological approach. The first semes-
ter of study will focus on community in
Ancient Israel, and the second semester
will trace the individual and society in

Christian is on tenure track here at
Davidson and is teaching upper-level
physics classes. He plans to continue
work at Davidson, both as a teacher and
as a coordinator of student research pro-
jects.

Susan Keefe

Susan Ann Keefe has joined the His-
tory Department as a new assistant pro-
fessor. She graduated from the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania and received mas-
ter’s and doctoral degrees from the Uni-
versity of Toronto, majoring in medieval
history. She has just completed a two-
year period in which she worked as a
Mellon instructor/researcher in history at
the California Institute of Technology.
She had only half the normal teaching
load so that she could spend the rest of
her time pursuing research.

While at C.I.T., she researched un-
published manuscripts from the Carolin-
gian Empire in order to understand the
rites of the early church. While there, she
also became very familiar with certain
aspects of the computer, something
which she did not expect would have
anything to do with her previous work.
“While at Toronto, I had no idea that I
would ever need a computer,” she said.
Once she began working on comparing
the 120 medieval manuscripts in her re-
search work she realized that it “allowed
me to see relationships which I couldn’t
have remembered on my own.”

In addition to research work at the
University, she has also spent three sum-

Laura McGee

more. thers ig less...

Ancient Greece. He hopes that by study-
ing the why of art and history-making
students may gain a greater appreciation
of the age and become better prepared for
the second year of study. He also cites
the four faculty members who specialize
in the Middle Ages, Professors Gibson,
Keefe, Smith and Barnes as valuable ve-
hicles in the process of establishing a
unity in the first year of study and a con-
tinuity between the two years of study.
He adds, however, that most of the pro-
posed changes are still in the formative
stage.

The proposal to the NEH comes after
a period of severe questioning of the pro-
gram’s fate.

In 1982, an independent consulting
team assessed the Humanities program
and concluded, among other things, that
the program placed too much emphasis
on the Judeo-Christian tradition and paid
too little attention to the role of science
and technology in the development of
Western thought.

Ina letter of Feb. 3, 1983, Vice-pres-
ident for Academic Affairs and Dean of
the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann
notified the faculty of his intentions to
make philosophy professor Earl Mac-
Cormac single director of the two-year
program. Then, in a called faculty meet-

ing,,there was a vote of 79-8 in favor of

asking Zimmermann to rescind his letter
on the basis that it violated a section of
the Davidson College Constitution
which reads, “The President and Vice

mers and one full year in Europe doing
research. She has spent approximately
eight years working on her current pro-
ject, dealing with ancient baptism rites,
and hopes to publish it in monograph
form sometime in the next two years.

After finishing this project she hopes
to be able to work on additional research
projects. She is enthusiastic about her
teaching work. “I would like to challenge
their [students’] imaginations because I
think that there is so much they can do.”
Keefe is on the tenure track at Davidson
and is teaching medieval history in regu-
lar classes and in the Humanities pro-
gram.

James C. Walker

James C. Walker is a visiting assis-
tant professor in the psychology depart-
ment. He graduated from Mercer Uni-
versity and got his Ph.D. from Florida
State University. He has served as a post-
doctorate fellow at Northwestern Uni-
versity for one year and has spent two
years at the Worcester Foundation for
Experimental Biology for two years.
Most of his research has been in the area
of psychobiology.

Walker is interested in doing research
work at Davidson and has applied for a
research grant to work here for the next
four years. The focus of his research con-
cerns the way “. . . peripheral receptors
work with the brain.” In order to under-
stand this he is doing experiments with
the vertabrate regenerative olfactory
nerve. Because of its unusual properties,

Humanities Program | Seeks NEH_ Funding

President for Academic Affairs share
with the faculty responsibility for prop-
osing Educational Program and Policy.”
Many Humanities faculty members felt
that Zimmermann acted independently
and did not consult faculty to a satisfac-
tory degree. Eventually, MacCormac
resigned.

In March of 1983 the Steering Com-
mittee of the Humanities Program com-
prised of Professors Abbott, Epes,
French, Krentz, Polley, and Shaw distri-
buted an evaluation pamphlet to Humes
graduates of classes ’79 through ’84 and
current Humes students. The results, in-
cluded in the NEH proposal, produced
no startling evidence either in favor or
opposition of the program but helped
sound out student and faculty opinions.
The evaluation results were one of many
considerations in developing the pro-
posed new Humes curriculum.

The evaluation, which used a quan-
titative format with additional room for
written input, included such questions as
“The Humes Program’s value lay chiefly
in its presenting of differing modes of
thought.” Ona scale of | to 5, indicating
respectively strong disagreement to
strong agreement, that question ranked
13 percent disagreement, 16% neutral

and 71% agreement.

The National Egde warrant Fog; shee:

Humanities will not ‘decide on the propo-
sal until April of 1984. If ratified, the
proposal will not go into effect until the
1985-86 Academic year.

New Faculty Members Interviewed

it will reveal new insights into“. . . how
the brain encodes information about
stimuli.”

Walker plans to use two students as
assistants in his research, to help with the
surgery involved and the study of the ex-
perimental results. His work will provide
valuable insights into a relatively un-
explored field. “There really hasn’t been
very much progress made in describing
the processes by which it [the olfactory
sense] works. Its role in physiology is
poorly understood.”

Since Walker is a visiting professor
his stay at the college will be limited. If
the grant comes through, he will be stay-
ing until 1987 and will “. . . teach one-
third of the time and spend the rest doing
research.”

James P. Wooten

James P. Wooten has joined the
sociology department and anthropology
as a visiting associate professor. His de-
grees cover a variety of fields, with an
undergraduate major in economics and
accounting from Brooklyn College, a
masters degree in sociology from Long
Island University and a Ph.D. in urban
planning from Columbia University.

Wooten said that he felt the need to
cover this range of studies because “I
have always been concerned with people
and I have certainly been concerned with
urban problems. I felt that I needed to
know the business world in order to un-
derstand the structures that underlie the
urban world.”
