10 Friday, March 25, 1983

‘The Davidsonian

‘Humanities: A Look Back

Rhodes Reflects On The Program’s History

By DANIEL RHODES

At a dinner in the home of Dean and Mrs. Frontis
Johnston in the winter of 1959-60, a prospective faculty
member asked whether Davidson might be willing to ex-
periment with a humamanities program. The Dean,
President Martin and Professor Abernethy thought that
the idea would be worth pursuing. Indeed it was not en-
tirely new. There had been some casual talk on campus
and Dr. Johnston and a faculty member had attended a
humanities conference during the preceding summer.

After I had gotten my Davidson bearings in the fall of
1960, the Dean suggested that it was time to begin pre-
liminary work on the humanities project. Of course the
first order of business was to recruit faculty, and Dr.
Johnston made the initial contacts with departments and
individuals. Professors Abernethy (Philosophy), Lab-
ban (Classics), McGeachy (History), Polley (Religion),
and Rhodes (Philosophy and Religion) dedicated ourse-
Ives to the task of working out a proposal that would be
submitted to the faculty.

In the spring.the faculty approved (by the barest
majority) and the administration promised funds for the
experiment. The basic concept was to develop a two-
year interdisciplinary program that would aid students in
understanding and appreciating their Western heritage.
An historical method was to be followed so that develop-
ments could be seen in context; oral and written com-
munication was to be stressed; lectures, discussions and
audiovisual aids were to be employed; and only ninety-
six freshmen were to be enrolled according to the post-
mark on cards of application.

In preparation for teaching the course, the first-year
team (those already mentioned, plus Professor Cole)
worked for eight weeks in the summer of 1961, spent a
fourth of their time during the following school year, and
eight weeks in the summer of 1962. The first humanities

Class met that fall.

In the meantime a second year’s team had been as-
sembled under the leadership of Professor Bradley
Thompson (History). Working with him were Profes-
sors Bliss (English), Lester (History), MacCormac (Phi-
losophy), Maloney (Religion) and Secor (Political Sci-
ence). Their schedule was the same as that of the first
year’s group — only a year later.

Classes met six days a week, and students got eight
course credits (twenty-four hours) for the successful
completion of the four semesters’ work. |

When Dr. Kaylor joined our faculty in 1964 and Dr.
French in 1967, the first-year team was strengthened,
and it remained stable until the retirement parade began:
First Dr. Abernethy (1976), then Dr.-McGeachy (1977).
The second year’s team has been more mobile and varied
from the early days. After the death of Professor

shrink the offering to compensate for the sixty lost con-
tact hours. And each department had to re-evaluate its
commitment of personnel and time to the program.
Heretofore any given faculty member had taught two de-
partmental courses while teaching humanities. In the
new setup, humanities and one other course would be a
full load. An additional personnel problem developed
when, as a result of the gradual growth of the student
body following the acceptance of women students, the
faculty voted that humanities should increasé the
number of students allowed to enroll in the program.
This meant fourteen discussion sections (and leaders),
instead of twelve per term.

There were a variety of consequences. A number of
departments that had not participated in the program per-
mitted interested persons to join the second-year team:
e.g., Messrs. Williams and Walker (French), Epes (Ger-

The basic concept was to develop a program that would aid

students in understanding and appreciating their heritage
ne

Thompson, Dr. Maloney became chairman; Professor
Patterson and then Professor Johnson came in from the
History Department. In 1967 Professor Abbott repre-
sented the English Department and Professor Fuller,
Political Science.

In 1968-69 the College moved from a semester sys-
tem to the current term arrangement. (For completion of
the revised humanities program, students would get two
credits in areas 1, 2 and 4). Instead of a possible 360 con-
tact hours in the two-year program, there would be 300.
Furthermore, faculty members would be teaching ten
hours a week instead of twelve. The result was that each
team had to engage in a revision process that would

Fred Deese Sweeps Memories
Twenty-three Years on the Job

By THURSTON HATCHER

Fred Deese has his own territory. Each day he gets
out of bed, puts on his overalls, dons his camouflage
cap, and heads for Davidson. By seven a.m. you will
know where to find him — in the Davidson_College
Union — cleaning up the mess made since he cleaned the
day before.

First he sweeps. Then he vacuums. Then he washes
the bathrooms. When you are responsible for keeping
clean two large floors (second and third) of the Union,
it’s all in a day’s work.

It seems that this clean-up routine would be ham-
pered by student’s constantly getting in the way. Not so,
says Deese. “Well, it don’t bother me,” he says. In fact,
he would often rather face the interruptions than deal
with the silence. “When we’re cleaning and we don’t
have nobody walking through, it gets kind of lone-
some.”

Deese likes Davidson students, but he regrets that he
doesn’t get to really meet many. But he does talk to
some: “The few I’ve met seem awful nice.”

Deese has worked at Davidson College for thirty
years, twenty-three of those years spent in the Union. He
appreciates the less strenuous work of a janitor as op-
posed to his first job on the grounds crew, but he misses
the sunshine and the exercise.

As a teenager, Deese worked on a farm near Moores-
ville. By keeping his job as a farmhand, he was able to

avoid serving in World War II. Apparently his boss had
political and financial clout in this area, and in order to
keep Deese exempted twelve times.

Eventually Deese’s peers and the parents of soldiers
began to get suspicious of him. “People grumble when
you've been getting preferred for four years,” he laughs.

Ultimately Deese was drafted, but after four years of
deferrals, Deese’s timing for entering the military
couldn’t have been more perfect. Just when he was sent
to start training to go overseas, World War II came to a
sudden halt.

That was forty years ago. America has changed and
Deese has changed and now he’s facing the prospect of
turning sixty in a little over a month. And he’s feeling

pretty good about it. “It’s something you just don’t:

help,” he says. “There’s no way to get back young. I feel
like I’m 16 years old at times but it don’t last long —
maybe 15 to 30 minutes.”

Twenty-three years on a job gives a man time to
think about a lot ef things while he dusts and sweeps.
Janitorial work is old hat for Fred Deese, and now he’s
got it all in perspective. “I don’t like for it to get messed
up, but I don’t worry about it. I’m cleaning up because
it’s my job — and that’s the way it is. If you get frus-
trated you won’t be happy‘with your job.”

Look for the man with the twig in his mouth and the
overalls and the camouflage cap. That’s Fred.Deese. He
cleans up the Union.

man), Manning (Physics), Ligo (Art), Kincaid
(Economics). On the other hand, the Philosophy Depart-
ment had to disassociate itself from the second year’s
work for a number of years. English (Abbott, Bliss),
History (Edmondson, Patterson) and Religion
(Maloney) continued their personnel support. and Dr. P.
Edmondson was employed as a part-time professor rep-
resenting Political Science in humanities.

The needs of the first year were met in a variety of
ways. On occasion the History Department increased its
personnel commitment; at other times the Religion De-
partment did the same. Twice the Administration em-
ployed a visiting professor. Twice Dr. Beaty, our refer-
ence librarian, came to our aid.

It is obvious, therefore, that teaching personnet is a
serious problem for the program. In response to this
problem a number of prospective young professors are
asked about’ their willingness to participate in
humanities. A significant number of those employed are
participating: e.g: Barnes and Krentz (History), Beatty
and Mele (Philodophy), Lewis-Stanfield (English),-
Shaw (Political Science), Plank (Religion). But they are
torn. Tenure is hoped for but not yet realized. In deter-
mining tenure, scholarly accomplishments are consid-
ered. If tenure eludes them, scholarly production be-
comes an important factor in securing another job. So
there is the feeling that considerable time and attention
must be given to one’s specialty. At the same time
humanities is a hard taskmaster. It demands considera-
ble work in areas other than one’s own discipline. And it
requires a willingness to teach other faculty members so
that they can teach students. Then there is the additional
problem: the youngest professors in humanities have had
opportunity to make only modest contributions to the

_ program. It is not yet theirs.

The Davidsonian offers a
typesetting service at
reasonable rates. If you
need any flyers,

bro-
chures, invitations, news-
letters, or any other form
of typesetting, call 892-
2000 ext. 148 or 149 for
more information.
