12 Friday, April 22, 1983 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Wake Defeats Ruggers
in Final Seconds

by TOM HENRY

Davidson was unlucky to lose to Wake
Forest 13-10,for they played committed
rugby and led for most of the second half.

The Cats took the field without the
guiding influence of Jim Brueggemann
— whose captain’s mantle passed to
Todd Thompson — ane the physical at-
tributes of Chuck Clifford, who arrived
late and could not play until the final
period. This disruption and the lack of
match practice created a scrappy first
half with the Cats conceding a field goal
(worth three points) and a try (worth four
points with an extra two for the kick at-
tempt — successful in this instance).
This nine-point halftime deficit did not
reflect the enthusiastic defensive play of
Nick Tsantes, Tommy Cardwell, and
Chris Klett, who made some vital tack-
les.

In the second half, the Cats came out

hungry for victory. The forwards rolled
the play upfield, and, when Wake in-
fringed in loose play, Todd Lambert
kicked the three points and a few minutes
later cut the deficit to three. With twenty
minutes to go, Davidson took the lead as
quick passing gave James Rampton a
chance to sprint in at the corner. The Cats
led by one point for the next twenty mi-
nutes, but they were finally robbed by a
cross-field football pass and’ touchdown.

Individually, Steve Stine coped ad-.

mirably with the pressures of a new posi-
tion; Hunter Gourley was always keen to
be in on the action; Wallis Goodman had
a solid debut; James Rampton showed
how he revels in his defensive duties; and
Doug Ammar worked with Joe McMul-
len on the narrow side. It was not the best
team performance the red and blacks
have turned out, but it was perhaps the
most spirited. Wake Forest was the first
to concede that Davidson won the party.

Golf Team Peaks

By Todd Wiebusch

Last week, the Davidson College
golf team participated in two tourna-
ments in preparation for the important,
season-ending Southern Conference
Tournament to be held at Raintree Coun-
try Club in Charlotte — April 25-27.

The Wildcats turned in their best per-
formance to date in a tournament hosted
by Belmont Abbey and held at Gallagher
Trails CC in Gastonia last Wednesday.
The four-man team shot a 320 total, plac-
ing 7th ina field of 16. Senior Tom Hal-
ler was Davidson's medalist with a 77,
Senior J.C. Faulkner and Sophomore
Todd -Wiebusch turned in 79°s, and
Junior Gary Schenk shot an 85.

In the week's second tournament,
held on Friday and Saturday, and hosted
by the Virginia Tech Gobblers, in
Blacksburg, Va. the Wildcats shot their
best team total of the year but placed 12th
in the competitve 16 team field. The op-
ponents included Va. Tech., UNCC,
Washington and Lee, and NAIA powers
Radford, and Greensboro College. Fo:
the two-day, six-man tournament in
which five scores counted, the Wildcat
golfers shot a respectable 797 (400-
397). Junior Gary Schenk bounced back
from his 85 on Wednesday to lead the
Wildcats with a 77—77. Other scores in-
cluded Haller’s 79-78, Freshman Bob
Carr’s 80-80. Faulkner's 83-30,
Wiebusch's 80-86, and. Senior Bob
Whalen’s 88—82.

Schenk automatically qualifies for
the next week's conference tournament,
since he was the low man from the previ-
ous tournament. The other four spots for

Tom Haller

the tournament will be determined form
qualifying rounds played this past week
at the Charlotte Country Club.

Coach Cartmill feels that the team is
peaking right now and could surprise
some teams and finish as high as 4th in
next week’s tournament. East Tennessee
State and Marshall all offer golf scholar-
ships. Cartmill feels that the Wildcat gol-
fers will improve from last year’s disap-
pointing last place finish.

Wildcats Split ‘T'winbills

By BOBBY BARNES

Wildcat freshman Scott Weaver
came within two outs of pitching a no-
hitter against conference foe Marshall.
Weaver's bid for the no-hitter was bro-
ken up in the final inning by a pair of
Marshall hits, which led to their only
run. Davidson, on the strength of John
Mahoney’s three run homer, bettered
Marshall 4-1 in the opening game of
Monday’s doubleheader.

Weaver came through with the finest
performance of his young college career
in raising his record to 2-3. The ‘““Weav”
kept the opposition off stride with a good
change up and threw his breaking pitches
for strikes.

In addition to Mahoney’s sixth-in-
ning shot, Doug Wiley was perfect at the
plate — driving in the first run of the
game — and Tim Waters added a pair of
hits.

The Cats wasted their second fine
pitching display of the day by dropping
the second game 3-1. Ed Whitesides
yielded only six hits and walked none.
Three of the hits, however, were solo
homeruns — two by shortstop Greg Hill.

Davidson threatened in four of the
seven innings, but could score only one
run; Weaver drove home Mahoney with
a fifth inning single up the middle.
Davidson stranded eleven runners, in-
cluding two in each of the last two in-

nings. Philip Gordon led the offensive at-
tack with three hits in four at -bat.
Whitesides record dropped to an 0-3.

Inclement weather forced Davidson
to play four games in only two days. Sun-
day, the Cats split another conference
twin bill — this one with V.M.I. In the
opener, the Wildcats exploded for five
first-inning runs to ride to a 7-4 victory.
Tim Waters, Mahoney, Gordon, Jeff
eswain, Al Baldwin, and Scott Red-

ing all added hits in the inning. Gordon
again led the Cats with three hits, while
Waters, McSwain, and Redding each
had two.

Pitcher Bob Barnes survived a pair of
homers to gain a four-hit, five-strikeout
victory — his second of the year.

V.M.1I. came up with strong pitching
of their own in the second game as
sophomore Brian Augsburger two-hit the
Cats to win 4-0. Waters and Mahoney
collected the only hits. Matt Walker (2-
4) took the loss, despite giving up only
one earned run. Wiley pitched one spot-
less inning of relief before the homestate
crowd.

The Cats hosted Pfeiffer Thursday in
an attempt to make up one of the 16
games that have been rained out. Satur-
day, they travel to Boone for another
conference set against Appalachian
State. Davidson is 7-17 overall and 2-6 in
the Southern Conference.

Track Breaks Records

By BOYD BLACKBURN

The Davidson track team broke four
school records at the Pembroke NAIA
District meet last weekend. The team
collected one first, two seconds in the re-
lays, and several other place finishes.

Laura Hills dashed to a 1:00.93 time
in the 400 meter to break the old record
by almost two seconds. Jean Webb also
cut a couple of seconds off the previous

/best in the women’s 800 meter. In addi-

tion to winning the race, Sara Patterson
set a new school record in the 3,000
meter with a time of 1 1:07.84. To top off
the women’s records, the mile relay team

af Hills, Sharon Bryant, Judy Dalton,
and Webb lowered the record time five
seconds in route to finishing second.

The men weren’t watching from
trackside either. The two more nvtewor-
thy performances were turned by Frank
Ivey with a third place in the 1500 meter
and a second place high jump by Jeff
Carter. His jump of 6°8” is only two in-
ches off qualifying for the nationals in
Charleston, W.V.

Other chances to qualify lie on the
road at the ASU Classic this weekend,
the Southern Conference Meet for the
men, and the. James Madison Open for
the women.
