The Davidsonian

Friday, March 25, 1983 15

Spring Brings Birds, Flowers, IMAC

As everyone well knows, it is spring
in the Piedmont. The birds chirp noisily,
the flowers bloom majestically, and the
beer flows freely. Things are looking up
if we can avoid the gibberish concerning
the death penalty, nuclear proliferation,
and the multitudes of heathens now
starving in Kenya. For those who would
rather kick back with a cold beer and go
angling for lunkers or perhaps catch
some rays or even check out the NCAAs,
this week’s column is for you. For those
offended by the third sentence and un-
able to interpret the fourth, please waste
no time praying for our wicked souls.

This is softball season, the all- Ameri-
Can sport requiring strength, skill, and a
beer belly. Now a look at this year’s

teams to beat:

Jerry’s Kids: This ragtag assortment
of ineptitude returns hoping to capture
the elusive George Greer Cup. Steve
“Imac Czar” Soud, whose undying loy-
alty to the Baltimore Orioles has made
him Jim Palmer’s heir apparent to do Joc-
key Shorts ads, serves as team manager,
mentor, and mascot (which gives some
indication as to how well the poster chil-
dren should fare). Peter “Go Red Sox”
Burr will attempt this year to slide into
the bases without breaking a toe. John
Norwood, who plays with the speed and
dexterity of Frontis Johnston, should
contribute nothing. Dave Earnhardt,
whose athletic quick wit won him last
year’s “Pat Ewing Think-Alike Award,”

also returns. The team’s only strong
points seem to be the off-season acquisi-
tions of Kenny Wilson, Bill Polack, and
Ron Schumer (who grew up playing the
game among the four-wheel drives, che-
win’ tobaccy and good ol’ boys of South-
ern Georgia).

Old Men: This band of senile and de-
crepit has-beens returns much to the
chagrin of any softball enthusiast. Char-
lie Slagle, who narrowly avoided injury
in the off-season (he was accidently mis-
taken for a leviathan by a retired whaling
captain from Nantucket), announced that
his team has everything: strength, speed,
and Cora Nelson as head cheerleader.
Peter Hess has taken time off from his
“Re-elect Ronald Reagan” campaign to

A SUDS, SAND & SUN SYMPOSIUM

April 1 & 2, 1983
North Myrtle Beach
South Carolina Campus

EASTER WEEKEND EXTENSION COURSES

Course # Description Prerequisite

BUD 101 Can Redemption - Valuable Free Gifts Ecology

BUD 102 _— Natural Light ‘Beauty - Body” Basic Anatomy

BUD 103 = °’6 - Pack in the Sky’’ Aerial Jump Show. None, unless jumping
BUD 104 Tug-of-War & Relay Races Phys. Ed.

LOOK FOR US MATRICULATING ON THE BEACH

help out, and Lou Ortmayer and Tom
Kazee (who are among the signers of the
New Right Manifesto published in this
week’s National Review) should beef up
the ranks. John Kelton, in a state of
euphoric bliss following John Verdi's
graduation, is expected to play stellar de-
fense if he can snap out of his catatonia.

The Embassy: The Embassy has
moved off campus for two reasons: (1)
To train intensely hoping to earn one last
athletic accolade, and (2) to plan and im-
plement the overthrow of Bob Building
and those humorless crybabys from
Duke dorm who failed to realize that
boys will be boys. Kenny Hovet, Stan
Klinger, Andy Leeper, Mark Hartman
and company can knock the cover off the
ball and play defense with the best of
them. However, with the loss of spiritual
leader Micky Dillon, one must ask if this
team has the heart to win it all.

Masterbatters: The reigning champs
must not be overlooked. The Hoddy
House can this year become the first team
in decades to capture IMAC’s elusive tri-
ple crown of flickerball, B-ball, and soft-
ball. Hoping to attain their goal, Ken
Murrah and Hall Barnett have followed a
rigorous training schedule. Ken climbs
the stairs of Knox Dorm loyally to keep
in shape, and Hall, through sheer perse-
verance, can now. beat Wendell
Washington by a whole second in the 40.
A question of controversy surrounding
Stork’s eligibility might hamper the
Hoddy’s chances. It seems he played
catch with Al Baldwin sometime during
his sophmore year. Cliff Tribus and John
Carroll will move from the confines of
Johnston Gym to take their respective
stations on the softball diamond. Round-
ing out the squad is Buck “I’m always
welcome at the Pika House” Bradberry
and Dave Carr.

Among other teams which warrant
serious consideration is the Blencher Re-
nchers. Here J.C. Faulkner will prove his
athletic ability transcends dancing on the
tables at Ham and Eggs and Doug Hen-
son will take time from his inquisition of
Steve Soud to play a little ball. Bone can
also now be taken seriously, since Kevin
“Rocket Wrist” Attar has peddled his ser-
vices to the Wildcat nine.

In this week’s softball action Jerry’s
Kids swept a doubleheader, with a 16-6
pounding over the aptly named Losers.
Pollock hurled a 14-0 shutout in the
nightcap over the Unknowns, who may
turn out to be the Le Team of softball.
The Masterbatters upended the old folks
in a forfeit, setting up their game with the
kids on Sunday. The fun guys at KA
managed to outplay their own pledges,
for what may be their only win all year.

Away from the fields of IMAC, the
inaugural swimming meet went off with
a bang. Swimmers Ex and the Wet Heads
battled it out to a tie; but the real news
was Ann Hunter and Laura Taft. His
Emperialness the Royal Soud says con-
grats to Felix Gerdes and John Storey for
organization. Meets are Fridays at 3:00,
and with a crew like the Titanics and the

. Killer Trout, how could anyone help but.

have fun?
