14 Friday, March 18, 1983

The Davidsonian

Hattie’s Remembered

‘A shack with torn vinyl booths

and a juke box’

By ERIC LONG
& KIRSTEN MCDONALD

It wasn’t hard to predict that this
morning half the campus would sleep
through classes or that some of the more
devoted individuals would still be snooz-
ing as yousread this. After all, last night
was Hattie’s Night, the biggest blowout
the Davidson campus throws all year.

Fannie & Mable’s has taken on the
responsibility of throwing the yearly beer
bash ever since Hattie’s burned down in
the spring of 1975. Last night twenty
kegs of Coors were ordered. Last year
the party consumed only fifteen kegs, so
this year’s F & M social chairpersons,
Jeff Holland and Muffin Alford, figured
twenty would be plenty. In fact, twenty
kegs of beer is more than enough when
you figure it converts to 310 gallons, or
approximately a quart for every student
enrolled. F & M_bears the largest finan-
cial burden of the party. This year F & M
paid for nine kegs, while the rest of the
eating houses and fraternities contributed
one or two kegs.

The collective willingness of Patter-
son Court to support Hattie’s Night stems
from an old Davidson tradition of which
very few students know. Hattie Morgan,
a resident of Mooresville, established a
bar and grill near the Korner Tavern,
back in 1946, and because the campus
was dry back in those days, students soon
flocked to Hattie’s for chow and cold
beer.

“We had about all the college stu-
dents out there — about all the students
that drank beer, that is,” said Hattie Mor-
gan. From the beginning she thought the
place would be popular. “We bought the
land there and wanted to build some kind
of business on it. That’s how it got
started.”

According to Dean of Students Will
Terry, Hattie’s was “a shack with torn
vinyl booths and a juke box. It had two

Ng Place to Be
omebody

resent

Block Student
Tonight and nt omorrow

7 p.m. ‘3801 Room ’

d by the

sections. One was kind of like a restau-
rant and the other served beer.” In spite
of this rather ascetic decor, Hattie’s was
an immense success. Thursday nights
were the most popular out there, espe-
cially the Thursday before Midwinters.
Various clubs chose Hattie’s as their
meeting spot. Most notable of these
clubs was the Who’s Nothing Club,
whatever that signifies.

Since Hattie’s was a hangout for all
types of students, the campus mourned
when Hattie’s burned to the ground on
April 27, 1975. The rest of the campus
willingly agreed to help when F & M
suggested honoring Hattie’s with a beer
bash. Thursday nights at Hattie’s were a
weekly ritual, which is why Hattie’s
Night has always been on a Thursday.

Hattie’s Night in 1981 ended with a
bang. Robbie Shackleford, a local
juvenile, shot Joe Leman, a Davidson
student. The argument that caused the
shooting was initiated by locals throwing
beer on each other and on bystanders,
said senior Kevin Attar, who witnessed
the event.

The shot was not fatal, however, and
Leman recovered quickly.

The shooting made the administra-
tion a bit nervous about the event. Dean
Terry, along with the F & M officers,
agreed that in the future Hattie’s would
not be held on the first week back. The
date of the party was also kept secret until
immediately beforehand in order to keep
the party relatively small.

Past social chairpersons of F & M
Pam Rew and Dunbar Ivy, commented
that “the crowd is usually calm and there
has never been any trouble, except for
the shooting.” F & M takes precautions
to assure that the house is not damaged;
they move all the furniture downstairs,
and they cover the upstairs with plastic.
Also, F & M always hires a policeman to
take care of any trouble.

The Booze BrothersLook at

Davidson Hot Spots

Hello and welcome once again to
the The Book of Truth and Wisdom,
aka the Booze Brothers! This week BB
welcomes everyone back for Spring
Term with a look at the hot party spots
both on and off campus. This should
be realty fun and informative, so let’s
get down to it!

As almost everyone knows, those
erstwhile partiers of Kappa Alpha had
the Drifters at the house last week.
However, when the final votes were
tallied, the party drew mixed reviews.
Good point: free beer. Bad point:
Shagging and the Drifters.

The scene over at the Hoddy House
was little better. Good thing: no KAs.
Bad point: BYOB and all the hair
which Throbber shed on the floor.

BB was mystified by the E’s band.
Climaxx had been billed as “The
South's Hottest Band,” so BB went to
the party engorged with excitement.
Noting that the band had all the tools
Necessary to put on a great perfor-
mance, our anticipation continued to
swell. However, after the beginning of
the show, our expectations seemed a
bit premature, leaving BB limp witha
general feeling of dissatisfaction.

The Fabulous Knobs at the Pika
house turned out to be the best band of
the week. However, the pseudo-
athletes blew it with the beer situation,

-which was one keg at a time, helpfully

monitored by the good guys of Phi
Delta Theta. The partying inexperi-
ence of the Pikes showed as they fum-
bled their first open party of the year.
These guys should stick to tossing
around a football.

Now BB considers the 900 Room,

or the 30 Squared Room as Keith
“Broadway Joe” Martin would put it.
This is the only place on campus with a
portrait of Bill Swift on the wall. See-
Saw’s party closet has been fun only 3
times this year: 1) REM; 2) the night
Killer Kazee, Beachball Slagle, and
Sterling Martin played quarters with
Andrea Geyer and Mary Legerton; and
3) when Earnie Andrews mooned the
SPEs. They should’ve pinned a medal
on the guy instead of making him
apologize.

Off-campus party spots have really
cooled down in recent months. For ex-
ample, one observer once noted that
“the Fiji’s have more drug dealers that
Bogota’, but this is no longer the case.
New President Tom Hissam has intro-
duced sweeping reforms, banning al-
cohol and drug use at the Fiji house.
Young Fijis are also encouraged to run
for SGA, apply for hall counselor, and
generally hang around Dean Terry’s
office.

The situation is similar with the
SPEs. Ever since the Chairman of the
Board party last year blew the Sig Ep
social budget for decades to come, the
SPEs have had to make do with Cham-
pagne Pajama Parties. Some SPEs
seem to approve of the change. Slug
Lincoln suggests that for fun, people
should call the SPE house and listen to
the way their pledges answer the
phone. “It’s a damn riot,” he claims.

Well, folks, that’s it for another
week with the Booze Brothers. Join us
again next week when we take a look at
BB’s mailbag. Should be interesting.
Till then, keep your hand on your beer
and your mind in the clouds!

The UNCC ICC Center for I for International Studies

Invites Students, Professionals and Community Members to

SUMMER EXPLORATIONS

oalttion

|] Mexico
‘Australia/N. Zealand
Canada
England
England
Germany
| Spain

(H.D.L.)

(H.D.L.)
(Architecture)

(Foreign Language)

(Foreign Language)
(F. Lang. & Geog.)
These programs may be taken for academic credit. Prioces are approximate and generally include
round-trip air tare from New York, lodging, breakfast, ground transportation and UNCC tuition.
Please inquire about extras.

The Center for International Studies offers the following overseas travel:studies this summer

(Religious Studies)

$794.50 May10-24
$2946 July18-Aug8
$362 May7-24
$1564 June11-July2
$838 July 4-Aug14
$1300 Jul15-Aug15
$1625 June 7-22

For more information, contact: The Center for international Studies, University of North Carolina at
Charlotte. UNCC Station. Charlotte NC, 28223, Telephone(7oe 597-2407

