Video Vassal Strikes Again ;

Video Critique, Part IT

By MATT MORRIS ’86

Welcomen ye to the Video Vassalage—that addict-
ing, welfare-inducing sector of our society where a
junkie lives always wondering where his next quarter
will come from. This edition of the Video Warrior
looks at more games on the Davidson Campus plus an
‘inside story’ on some great (and not so great) new
games in and around the area.

Galaga — Located in Sentelle Hall, Galaga has
been described by sorcerers as a “new, improved, and
phallic” game. Galaga lives up to it’s reputation. The
formula for creating a game like Galaga goes like this:
take a classic old video game (in this case Space Invad-
ers) imbibe it with a couple of new, treacherous twists
(periodical affensive — in more ways than one — at-
tacks) some-apocalyptic sounds (atomic bomb-like
“KaBooms!”) and wonderful graphics (atomic bomb

like explosions). What hath thee? A mindlecc dannel
ganger of a better ganie, but one with resurrected

strength. Yes, Bacchus follower, Galaga lives and
charges are with fear, verily.

Joust — On the second floor of Belk something
mysterious is happening: freshman Jay Braun and Jim-
my Yike are knights in shining armour perched atop
flying buzzards stabbing other nefarious fow] for their
very lives. Impossible you say? Digest your tongue,

that he's a video addict and tells all Beginners, “When
you are trying to kill the ‘unbeatable’ pteradactyl, aim
for his mouth with your sword.” Truly Yike is one of
those rare video scions who is worth a shining quarter
to watch.

Burger Time — Now the Video Warrior decrees a
pilgrimage to the Eastland Mall where a video arcade
awaits him. There he spies a new game entitled, inno-
cently enough “Burger Time.” Placing a quarter in the
slot, the Video Warrior soon finds that “Burger Time”
is a redoubtable game. The just warrior’s goal is to to
build hamburger on a series of steps (hence, “Burger
Time,” get it?) before several foreboding hot dogs
make ogre patties out of—uh, make trouble. Your
squire is Charlie the Baker, a clever little man with a li-
mited supply of pepper which may be used to stave off

the evil weiners. The supply can be rejuvenated but it
qciwkty VCCONMICS Gppuswsee ~~ 2

BUT ahs pancar
vation is the thing. Unfortunately, Burger Time is a
mere shade of Pac-Man and not nearly as elegant. Sor-

ry Charlie.

Even God plays an

important rolle in Joust.

for Bally/Midway has added to its already gallant
stable of video games, including Defender and Robo-
tron. Joust is a superb Prince Valiant-like game that is
inaclass all by its self. The graphics are suitably eerie,
complete with outerspace background und a really
wicked moat. Even God plays an important role in
Joust. 163,000 Pro Jay Braun says he started playing
Joust, “when they took the Galaga machine out,” and
its obvious — he’s a seasoned expert. Jimmy Yike, the
top-scorer of the game (208,000) isn't afraid to admit

Prithee, Popeye is a
hectic and chaste game...

Raise the Flag!

Popeye — Ok, even the Video Warmior adimits that
he cast a visoned eye upon the reputation of a game
named after that spinach-chomping champion. but for-
sooth! Popeye turns out to be an ingenious game, the
best of the new perils. The player becomes he-man Po-
peye (sorry Ms. Steinheim), and the graphics are as
wondrous as all the old Popeye movies from the ’30s
and the ’40s. Olive Oyl drops hearts to Popeye from a
high tower, and our hero must catch all of these valen-
tines while avoiding the omnipresent Bluto. Of course,
if that villain gets too close, Popeye merely pops some

Anderson Scott '84

By

spinach (one can per screen), and, for a limited time,
becomes stronger than Bluto. A wretched sea hag oc-
casionally materializes to hurl lethal bottles at Popeye,
and he must fend them off. Prithee, Popeye is a hectic
and chaste game, for the only character missing from
the cartoon is Swee’ Pea, Olive Oyl’s presumably il-
legitimate child. Raise the flag!

So there you have it: the old, the new, and most of
all, the fun video games beeping, booming, and ex-
ploding all over Davidson and Charlotte. The Video
Warrior now takes his place in Video Valhalla but
leaves all his followers with a word of advice, “Don’t
put a $5 bill in a change machine; you'll still get four
quarters.”

continued from p. 11

joyed myself very much while working on it.” But, as
McManus says, “Oxford was a fabulous, civilizing ex-
perience, quite apart from any specific things you
might learn. It has to do with a world outlook and an at-
titude toward people and learning . . .”

Below is a brief look at how Davidson’s other
Rhodes Scholars have gone on to distinguish them-
selves in many fields of service.

— W. Plumer Mills ’03, Davidson’s first recipient of a

Rhodes, studied theology at Oxford and then received |

his B.D. from Columbia Theological Seminary. He
then became a medical missionary in China for almost
four decades. During World War II he was twice deco-
rated by the Chinese government for his famine and
war relief work.

— Ben R. Lacy ’06 is the retired president of Union
Theological Sseminary.

— Shelby T. McCloy °18 was a professor of history at
the University of Kentucky before his death in 1973.

_—J. McDowell Richards ’22 is the President Emeritus

of Columbia Theological Seminary.

— Robert F. Davidson ’23, brother of Dr. Chalmers
Davidson, has been Dean Emeritus of St. Andrews
Presbyterian College since 1971.

— Dean Rusk °31 is currently a professor of interna-
tional law at the University of Georgia. His long and
very distinguished career in national government in-
cluded the position of the United States Secretary of
State from 1961 to 1969.

_— Charles T. Davis ’S0 is professor of history at Tu-

lane University in New Orleans.

— Joseph J. Murray Jr. °51 is Samuel Miller Professor
of Biology at the University of Virginia and co-director
ot the Mountain Lake Biological Station in southwest
Virginia.

— Hugh Cannon °53 is a lawyer and automobile dealer
in Charleston, S.C. His special fields include corporate
work, representation of banks in administrative and ju-

dicial matters, and parliamentary procedure.

— Fred G. Myers °54 is adjunct professor of English at
Baruch College, City University of New York, and
vice president of the International Conference Group, a
management/meeting/PR consulting firm.

— Henry Shue ’61 is a Senior Research Associate at
the Center for Philosophy and Public Policy, Universi-
ty of Maryland at College Park. His recent book is “Ba-
sic Rights: A Philosophical Perspective on Some For-
eign Policy Choices.”

— William M. Clark, M.D. °66 is a member of Mec-
klenburg X-Ray Associates at Presbyterian Hospital in
Charlotte.

— Randel E. Phillips “69, at last word, was attending
Harvard Law School and a member of the board of edt-
tors of the Harvard Law Review.

— Daniel G. Clodtelter °72 is in private practice with
Moore and Van Allen law firm in Charlotte, having re-
ceived his J.D. at Yale University in 1977.

— Patrick M. “Bo” Baskin °77 is currently enrolled in
the Yale School of Organization and Management.

16

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983
