n’s Week—

have any power. In order to get anywhere, you have to
play everyone else’s game. Now, once they . . . finally
reach a certain “critical mass,” the minorities begin to
wield power. They don’t have to play the others’ game.
They can start their own.

Sonia Johnson will be at Davidson through the ef-
forts primarily of the Women’s Concerns Committee,
but through the support of Rusk House, Warner Hall,
and the Speaker’s Committee. She will be speaking on
Tuesday, January 18, 12:30 at the BSC House, and at
8:00 in Love Auditorium. Limited seating is available
for both. Don’t miss an invaluable opportunity to see a
strong vision of our society in the ’80s.

le
itality and hardship

now a full-time commitment. “If you're going to
write,” says Moose, “you have to love to do it. It’s a
wonderful way to live and a hard way to make a living.
To supplement her writing and as an extension of her
writing, she works with the public schools in their vis-
iting artists programs, and she also travels to conduct
writing workshops. Her advice for those wishing to
pursue a career in writing: “The best training for writ-
ing is reading. It keeps your mind constantly stimulat-
ed.”

An artist needs to have s source of inspiration —
something to help them continue creating. “For me,”
says Moose, “I write because there’s something I want
down on paper. And when I have an idea, I want to
know what’s going to happen. I want to follow each
character and find out what happens to him as much as
the reader does.”

Moose will be visiting Davidson next Thursday,
January 20th as part of “Celebrate Women” week. Af-
ter conducting a workshop with Dr. Abbott’s creative
writing class, she will read and discuss some of her
works at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. A reception will
follow the reading.

Jennet
Robinson

She puts her risks
in perspective

By ELIZABETH KISS

Jennet Robinson is well qualified to talk about
“Risktaking,” the topic of her speech Monday night at
6:45 in the 900 Room.

It’s risky to be one of eleven women among | ,OOO
college students.

It’s risky to leave a job as a television news anchor-
person and move to California because male col-
leagues doing the same work are getting paid twice as
much as you are.

It’s risky for a young South Carolina woman to
spend two years at the Ministries of Public Health and
Education in Kabul, Afghanistan, especially during a
Soviet-backed coup.

Jennet Robinson has done all of these things, and
more.

Robinson’s speech will kick off the week-long fo-
cus on women’s issues sponsored by the Union Com-
mittee on Women’s Concerns, Celebrate Women: Ten
Years at Davidson College. Her visit is appropriate to
the wéek’s theme. Robinson, who since last June has
been Deputy Lieutenant Governor of South Carolina,
spent a year at Davidson in '71-72 as one of a group of
eleven women exchange students.

‘She took the place by storm,” according to Asso-
ciate Dean of Admissions Gardner Roller, who was al-
so a member of the exchange group.

“The two of them — Jennet and Gardner — did
more to pave the way for coeducation at Davidson than
anyone else,” English Professory Anthony Abbott
said. The Board of Trustees approved coeducation in
May 1972.

Abbott recalled that Robinson played an active role
in campus life during her year here. She was manager
of the soccer team and starred in the drama production
The Taming of the Shrew.

Being in such a minority was not easy. “The pres-
sure was on,” Robinson said. Roller recalled releasing
steam by riding bikes at night down the halls of
Chambers with Robinson, shouting epithets at the of-
fice doors of particularly chauvinistic faculty
members.

Robinson received a B.A. degree in drama and his-
tory from Mary Baldwin College in 1973, and went on
to be a television news reporter and anchorperson in
Columbia, South Carolina for three years.

Despite her childhood in “male-dominated South-
ern society” in Charleston, Robinson said she left col-
lege confident and strongly oriented toward achieve-
ment.

“It wasn’t until [ started working that I realized how
hard it was for women in the workplace.”

In spite of her seemingly glamorous, high-profile
television job, Robinson was “making peanuts.” Then

she discovered her male colleagues earned twice as
much for the same work. Finding there were no laws
protecting her from such discrimination in a private
firm, Robinson left the station and moved to Califor-
nia, where she worked with radio and taught in a broad-
cast school.

Then, in January 1977, Robinson took what she
calls, “the biggest risk of my life.” She joined the
Peace Corps as a communications consultant for the
Ministry of Public Health in Kabul, Afghanistan.

“| prepared health education materials for patients,
midwives, and village healthworkers in an effort to ex-
tend basic health care to more people in a country with
a critical health manpower shortage.”

Robinson also worked with Afghanistan’s sole
television station, under the Ministry of Education.

Living in a traditional Muslim society was “very
tough,” Robinson said. Outside the cities, few women
walked unveiled. Polygamy was common practice,
and husbands tried to have as many children as possi-
ble, which frequently caused health problems among
mothers and infants.

“I earned peoples’ respect because I learned the
language and because | was considered to be a teacher,
and | did meet wonderfully kind people,”. Robinson
explained, “but I found many aspects of the society dif-
ficult to understand.

With the Soviet-backed coup in 1978 and the out-
break of civil war, Robinson's position with the coun-
try’s only television station became a politically sensi-
tive one and her contract was terminated.

Robinson returned to her native South Carolina and
directed a medical education television network for the
state’s Medical University. When Lieutenant Gover-
nor Nancy Stevenson offered her the position of press
secretary, she accepted.

“For the first time in my life | was working for a
woman with lots of power, lots of energy and ambition
— and with a staff that’t half women and has consider-
able minority representation.”

Robinson became Deputy Lieutenant Governor in
June 1982, a position she held until the inauguration of
the new lieutenant governor last week.

Her plans for the future? “I want to continue to
work in state government. I feel very strongly about the
need for women to make an impact in state govern-
ment. After all, when most American people favor
equal rights for women, it was a few state legislatures
that stopped the ERA.”

“T also saw Lieutenant Governor Stevenson do sev-
eral things that have never been done before — and do
them on very little money. I think it’s possible to im-
prove the system by working within it.”

Women cannot assume the struggle for equal rights
is over. “With every step forward, there’s been a corre-
sponding step back.”

Robinson believes women need to risk more.
“Women have a tendency not to take risks in the work-
place. Elsewhere, yes — what’s a bigger risk than
bringing another life into the world? But, while boys
learn early through teamwork to cope with both victory
and defeat, girls don’t, and continue to consider securi-
ty their top priority on the job.”

Robinson looks forward to seeing Davidson for the
first time since 1973. She feels her message is timely
for today’s university women, who are often unaware
of the discrimination still experienced by women to-
day.

“I used to say I’m not a women’s libber, I’m a
Jennet libber. But it’s not that simple.”

Women must still take risks on behalf of them-
selves and of other women. Jennet Robinson can speak
to that.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

13
