10 Friday, October 14, 1983/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ann Meador, Editor David Resnik, Executive Editor

Ross Holt, Managing Editor

Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor

Kelly Sundberg, Arts and Entertainment Editor

‘ Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor _

It’s About Time...

It’s about time that someone started doing something about student
faculty evaluation. Some professors may consider the SGA Senate’s re-
quest for Trustee review an extraordinary move, but it appears to be the
only way to get anything done.

Last February the Faculty dropped the old ICES forms. It failed to
reach an agreement with the administration on the issue of student facul-
ty evaluation. As a result there was no official student faculty evaluation
that term; there has been no student faculty evaluation for two terms
now.

It’s now the sixth week of the 1983-84 school year and still, nothing
has been done. Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean.of the
Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann won’t be meeting with the Professional
Affairs Committee to discuss the issue until the seventh week of the
term. How can the faculty and administration possibly expect to work
out a reasonable solution in so little time? At the rate they’re moving
now, Davidson won’t have a new student faculty evaluation procedure
until the end of the winter term.

” The student body should not settle for this. One term without any fac-
ulty evaluation is bad, but two terms is ridiculous. One hopes the faculty
and administration will heed the SGA’s warning. The SGA could have
solicited the Trustees directly, instead of going through the President. If
nothing happens as a result of Tuesday’s vote, the SGA may petition the
Trustees.

In the past, students have been forced to take severe actions in order
to get response on the issue of student faculty evaluation. The SGA once
conducted its own evaluation after all other diplomatic attempts failed. If
the Trustees fail to act on student faculty evaluations, and if the school
fails to establish its policy by the end ofthis term, then we may see yet
another student-run faculty evaluation.

The administration and faculty have declared the basic commitment
to student faculty evaluations. They claim to recognize the importance of
student input into faculty tenure and salary decisions. But if their beliefs
are really sincere, why have they waited so long to do anything? Do they
really think they can minimize this issue?

As students we have a right to evaluate our professors; it is explicitly
stated in the Constitution of Davidson College. We have been denied this
right for two terms now, and it is time we got it back.

Clarification
Last week’s headline “Four Arrested For Drinking” did not mean to imply
any guilt on the part of the four students involved in the incidents. We regret any
confusion which resulted from this ambiguity.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 149 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
, the Grey Student Union. Subseriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available
on réquest. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Copyright
held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee. Assistant News Editor. Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Roxanna Guilford.

-Wayne Magruder, Bruce Plourde, Greg Smouse, Julie Sternal, Aaron Taylor. Lisa Thomas, David
Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Ted Wilson

Features Staff: John Gathings. Assistant Features Editor, Brian Butler. Craig Detweiler, Stephen
Mank, Matt Moris, Ida Phillips, Allison Wills

Sports Staff: Scott Huie. Assistant Sports Editor, Boyd Blackbur, Kerry Brown, Dave Earnhardt,
Pam Harmann, Rand Hartsell , Frank Schwalbe ;

Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Caryt Dawson. Virginia Harris, Kevin
Horan. Mike Jester. Laura McGee, Carroll Overton, Anderson Scott. Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey, Alva Moore, Susan Norman

Circulation Staff: David McCurry. William White

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch. David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Rob Hollenbeck Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Lou Hamilton,
Debby Williams. Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

en pw eee

LETTERS

Confusion
To the Editors:

Mr. Hollenbeck proposed some
questions concerning my recent article
which need answering to alleviate some
apparent confusion.

In “Survival of the Fittest” I did not
“advocate selectivity as the last hope of
the Court,” as Hollenbeck asserts; rather,
I wrote that “houses on the Court will
. . . be forced to take a more assertive ef-
fort in recruiting members and being
seen as desirable. . . ” Nowhere is the
concept of bids mentioned, as my state-
ment could be implemented without
them as is currently done in Warner Hall
and Rusk. My only purpose in even men-
tioning fraternities was that they have the
most assertive recruiting effort and are
most assured houses on the Court.

Hollenbeck further charges that I
“[place) the blame for the decline of Pat-
terson Court on non-selectivity.” Again,
I merely hypothesized that the Self-
Selection system is accelerating the fall
of Patterson Court because only part of
the Court follows the current form of the
Self-Selection. It is the lack of assertive-
ness on the part of some self-selecting
houses not non-selectivity which is to
blame.

Thirdly, I disagree with Hollenbeck
in his belief that P.C. could be “closed
outright” by the College. Any move in
that direction would be unfeasible due to
student and alumni (financial support)
opposition.

Yes I did hypothesize that the Col-
lege could be lying (using Hollenbeck’s
word). Unfortunately, Hollenbeck took
all of his quotes out of the context and
spirit of my article. I stand by my
hypothesis that currently “Self-Selection
could well be the demised of the Court.”

Finally, I made adecision to eat at the
Commons — I was not driven there. In
answer to Hollenbeck’s question: “What
if every house was as selective as, say,
KA? How many more freshman would
Stay at the Commons as upperclassmen?”
T answer: at least one more, because Hol-
lenbeck could not have had the opportu-
nity to self-select PAX.

Duncan V. Fraser

Sympathy Note

To the Editor:

If you haven’t heard yet, Davidson
beat Guilford on Saturday, in their first
football victory this season. Hopefully
this win will generate some support from
a student body that shows little interest in
a team unless it wins. .

‘Davidson’s soccer team is winning,
and that is great. There are pre- and post-
game parties, and the enthusiasm and
cheering on the hill are what they should
be. But, what if they played a full
schedule of teams comparable to Duke,
to whom Davidson lost 3-0? Would the
soccer players by subjected to ridicule
and negative comments from fellow stu-

dents? Would parents, girlfriends and
fans from the opposing team be the only
spectators?

Our football team is in such a sticky
wicket. That’s 85 student athletes, a
large percentage of the male student
body, the guys sitting next to you in
class, the ones bruised and bandaged,
who dedicate themselves to three-hour
daily practices, Saturday games, Sunday
meetings, weight-lifting and year-long
workouts.

Football is a grueling sport and even
more so for Davidson’s team who faces
superior teams with full scholarship pro-
grams (Davidson has none) and players
who are heads taller and many pounds
heavier. But they love the sport; they
want to win, and they don’t give up, re-
gardless of weekly underdog status. And
they are playing for us and for Davidson
College.

How many of you go to the home
football games or even stay until the half-
time? Who listens to the game on the
radio or greets the players when the bus
comes home from a game five hours
away? Why is the Parents’ Weekend
scheduled during an away football
game? Where is the spirit that is indigen-
ous to Davidson’s tradition of excel-
lence?

It is easy to cheer a winning team on
to victory. But teams need their fans
most when they are losing. They need to
know that somebody is behind them and
respects their efforts and sacrifices. This
is true for any sport. Davidson football
needs our support now. This Saturday
Davidson will meet South Carolina
State, the toughest team scheduled. This
is an excellent opportunity to be suppor-
tive instead of being a “twinkie.” David-
son, show some guts for once!

Jill Sypult

PITCHERS

To the Editors:

Enough is enough! Not enough is not
enough! A cup of beer is not enough. We
are People In The College Hating Every
Right Stolen (PITCHERS). We want
pitchers.

PITCHERS questions Pritchard’s re-
spect for students integrity. By taking
away our pitchers, Pritchard takes away
the chance for the student to be dishon-
est. Does he not also take away the
chance for the student to be honest? “The
honor system at Davidson is the
touchstone of the college life, creating an
atmosphere of trust in the college com-
munity (Davidson Catalogue)”. We want
to be trusted — give us the chance!

Therefore PITCHERS feels the law
can be upheld with pitchers in the 900
Room. Those of legal age can enjoy the
pub-like atmosphere that was the 900
Room. Those under age can enjoy the
right to exercise their honesty.

We are PITCHERS. We want pitch-
ers!

Taylor Bowen
George S. Thompson, Jr.
