8 Friday, October 7, 1983/The Davidsonian

Yellow Submarine Captures 196 g Optimism

By STEVE MANK
Something’s rotten in the state of
Pepperland. A town once known the
world over for its music and color has
been silenced and painted grey by the
evil Blue Meanies.

But all is not lost, for coming over the
horizon are four loveable moptops in a
yellow submersible craft. O joy!

In Yellow Submarine, the Beatles
first and only feature length animated
movie, John, Paul, George and Ringo
journey through a world of fantasy and
whimsy to join forces against such vil-
lains as the Snapping Turtle Turks, the
Apple Bonkers, the Butterfly Stompers
and — oh, should I say it? — the Blue

Music

By STEPHEN MANK

The Police have finally decided
that it’s high time they turn intellec-
tual. No more singing about prostitutes
and student-faculty affairs, no sir.
Now it’s shades of Carl Jung.

In many ways it is a change for the
better. As musicians they have made a
concerted effort to improve and ex-
pand. Their lyrics have also shown
some improvement. But at the same
time The Police have lost something
very vital.

No longer are The Police that spon-
taneous bunch of ragamuffins who
would go onstage and try to convince
the world that their peculiar brand of
British reggae was the best thing
going.

The new Police don’t have to 1m-
press anyone. Their job is simply to
improve. The problem is that they’ve
reached:a point at which improvement
is difficult. All that is left for them to

up the lyrics.

This is a noble venture but some-
how, something is lost.

Synchronicity is a sometimes too
|. slick concept album based on Carl
Jung’ s theories of synchronicity.

On the opening track of the album,
“Synchronicity I,” bassist Sting intro-
duces us to the wonderful world of Mr.
Jung’s concept — ‘“‘A connecting prin-
ciple, linked to the invisible, almost
imperceptible, something inexpressi- ,

2 -ble.”. This. is. actually a fancy Way of ~-*

Although it lacks an_ intelligent
script, the film is fun, and perhaps the
best animation aimed at the over-five
crowd.Director George Dunning _per-
fectly absorbs the mythos of the Fab
Four, blends it with psychedelia of the
“turned-on crowd” and infuses a little
1968 optimism just for fun.

The nicest thing about the film is you
can see that the Beatles, and everyone,
sincerely believed that with their love
they could change the world — if they
only knew.

Erich Segal (Love Story) wrote the
script, and although it tends to be a little
juvenile at times on the whole it is pleas-
ant and leaves you with a happy feeling.

The songs are, of course, by the Bea-

tles themselves, and are the single great-
est asset to the film. The “Lucy in the Sky
with Diamonds” sequence will make you
never want to watch MTV again.

Perhaps one of the most enchanting
qualities of the film is the approach that
all Beatles’ films have towards whimsi-
cal humor. Non-sequiters and bizarre
situations run rampant as the four travel
through the Sea of Green Phrenology to
meet with such creatures as Vacuum
Man and Jeremy Hillary Boob PhD. (the
Nowhere Man).

In addition, Yellow Submarine, like
all good sixties films, has social com-

mentary. Winning a love war against the
Blue Meanies is a far sharper blow
against the establishment than it may at
first seem.

Unfortunately the Liverpool lads
contributed little to the film except four
new songs and a live-action sequence at
the end — even their voices were done by
actors — but perhaps that is best. Their
preceding film, Magical Mystery Tour,
showed plainly that a Beatles’ place is
not in production.

On the whole, Yellow Submarine
despite its blithe idiocy, is fun. A splen-
did time is guaranteed for all.

Intramural College Bowl
Competition Now Underway

By TIM WAPLES
The 23rd Annual Davidson College

Bowl Intramural Tournament jumped off

to a great start on Monday night with nine
matches involving 18 of the 24 teams
signed up for the tourney. As always,
things went smoothly under the guidance
of College Bowl Coach and Faculty
Computer Whiz Dr. Hansford Epes.
Yes, the occasion appeared congenial on
the surface, but experts observed that
you could cut the tension with a knife as
young lions prepared to claw their way to
the top, and old rivals eyed each other
warily.

do is clean up the mistakes and spice .

describing a theory tnat 1s nothing
more than an extension of the “collec-
tive unconscious.”

The precept basically says that
seemingly unrelated events are related
symbolically and we must look for the
symbolism that brings the two to-
gether.

“Walking in Your Footsteps” joins
our state in the universe with that of the
dinosaurs. In “Synchronicity II,”

THE POLICE

SYNCHRONICITY

‘Mother chants her litany of boreauin

’

and frustration,” while “many miles
away something crawls from the slime
at the bottom of a dark Scottish lake.’’.
In “King of Pain,” Sting’s pitiable
state is compared to everything from a
“butterfly caught in a spider’s web” to
a fossil.

This is all well and good, but few
people want to pay to hear someone do
_ Oblique lip service to a philosopher
. “without .any. more. explanation that

Synchronicity: Philosophical Cop Out

Pan

“something inexpressible.”

But this is not something the whole
band is so gung-ho about. The friction
in the band is well publicized, and
guitarist Andy Summers even laughed
off Sting’s claims of being the philoso-
pher of rock and roll by telling Time
magazine, “He’s just going through
his Germanic-philosophers-of-unpro-
nouncable-names stage.”

Summers’s comments are more
pointed on his only contribution to the
album, “Mother.” This claustrophobic
journey through the dark corridors of
the Id, with its cacophonous refrains of
“Every girl I go out with becomes my
mother in the end,” rings not of Jung
but of Freud. Ironically, though this
song is the least listenable on the
album, it is the only one that retains the
experimentalism that once defined The
Police. .

Musically Synchronicity is The
Police’s best effort. They’ ve departed
from the reggae-rock motif into the
realms~ of mainstream pop without
straying too faraway.

Lyrically Sting has mastered trans-
ition and allegory while staying simple
in format. The only, problem on the .
whole is that Sting does not seem to
understand “that a concept album
should not need outside studying in a
psychology textbook. And in the end
Synchronicity does little more than,
dear Mister Jung and Messrs. Sting,
Copeland, and Summers, ‘‘a humilat-

ing kick in the crotch.”

“There'll be some money riding on
that game,” Ann Meador informed me
Monday afternoon. She was referring to
what may well be the most bitter rivalry
of the tournament: Better Luck Next
Year and The Fourth Estate. These two
teams constitute the bulk of Davidson
journalism’s finest, and they all carry a
pretty hot buzzer to boot. In fact, the
members of BLNY (Tim McGaughey,
John Munson, Stewart Cauley, and
Meador) all narrowly missed making the
varsity team last winter, thereby provid-
ing the inspiration for their team name.

However, they could have used some
of that luck Monday as they fell to the
Thundering Amoebi by an 80-70 count.
Forced to play without fiery sparkplug
Tim McGaughey, BLNY was shocked
by a surprisingly strong showing by the
Amoebi, a ragtag mob of juniors with a
hearty disdain for bonuses who seem to
have fallen together purely by chagce.
The Fourth Estate managed to avoid the
frontrunner’s jinx, smashing the Yo-
Yo's 250-20 (good defense). Unfortu-
nately, any dream game between BLNY
and the Fourth Estate will have to wait
until the playoffs, because these teams
play in different divisions.

In other action Monday, easy wins
were notched by Whiplash, Madd Mudd,
and the Buzz Aldrins, all of whom broke
the 200-point barrier. Two games went
right down to the wire. Les Miserables
proved that press clippings don’t count in
the big leagues by kipping Idiots Sav-
ants, led by former high school hotshots
Edwin Page and Rob Norman. The Col-
umbus, Ga. tandem brought their cheeky
freshman team within five points before
finally being denied, 125-120.

Finally, in an Emanon grudge match,
I Phelta Thi came from behind to beat the
Absolute Values 100-70. Absolute’
Value Coach Steve Hughes promises big
improvement in the future, starting with
memorizing the ACC schools. Re-
member, Steve, some of the very best
started at the bottom.

Monday, Oct. 10 brings a new slate :
of nine matches full of thrills, spills, and,
missed interrupts. Matches are at 7,
7:30, and 8 p.m. in the College Union.
Players and fans should check the Union
Desk for this week’s schedule, rankings,
and write-ups. Don’t miss the action-
packed excitement this week and watch

_ this column for all the box scores.
