The Davidsonian/Friday, April 8, 1983 3

Alcohol Integral Part of Campus Social Life

By DAN VOORHIS

Seventy-five Davidson students were
surveyed at random last week on their
drinking habits.

Results show that almost 90 percent
of students polled drink at least occasion-
ally. More significantly, most students
of those students drink for social reasons.
This raises the question of the function of
alcohol on campus.

“For the party atmosphere, some
people need alcohol. People expect it,”
said Pi Kappa Alpha social chairman
Steve Reardon. “Some have just as good
a time without, but for a lot of people I
guess it’s kind of a crutch.” The poll
suggests that most students consume a
moderate amount, two to four drinks,
and do not seek to get drunk.

“Drinking is part of a Patterson Court
party,” said PAX president Drew Wells,
“but one must recognize the non-drink-
ing group and provide alternative bever-
ages.”

Reardon and Wells said their houses
provide the types of social events the
members of their organizations want.
Those who like to drink join a house
where others drink, said Reardon.

Most people polled agreed that re-
sponsibility lies with the individual
rather than the institution and would not
change the present form of Court parties.
Those who do not want to drink do not
have to. Most of those asked downplayed
the effects of social pressure as the origin
of much drinking.

“Your attitudes toward drinking
started when you were little,” said junior
Dick Lee, “being in college is just the
culmination. Freedom is the only differ-
ence.”

When asked whether Davidson social
events placed too much stress on drink-
ing, about 25 percent replied yes. Dean

of Students Will Terry agreed. “Drinking

is not necessary but it is inevitable,” said
Terry. Terry suggested measures in his
,last “Dean’s Outbasket” newsletter to re-
duce the alcoholic aspects of social eve-
nts. He asked for alternative beverages
and food at parties and urged “more
creativity to cut down on the guzzling.
Anything to excess should be discour-

This poll was conducted the week of April 8. Seventy-four students were
asked the following questions, and the figures listed below represent the
rounded percentages:
Why do you drink? social relaxation with food drunk other
59% 23% 13% 3% 2%
How often do you drink?
less than
once amonth 1/month 1/week more
10% 19% 23% 48%
How much do you drink on the average?
1 drink 2 3 4 5o0r more
15% 26% 31% 12% 17%
How often do you get drunk?
Never lessthan1/mo. = 1/mo. 1/week more
31% 27% 24% 9% 9%

aged.”
The College’s official policy is that

“it will not officially encourage drink-

ing,” a hands-off policy which began
only in 1969. Previously neither students
nor faculty were permitted to drink on or
off campus. “These parties now are con-

siderably toned down; that’s because of
peer pressure,” said Terry. “Students
used to get killed returning to campus
drunk,” he said.

Terry believes that school policy is
much less hypocritical than it used to be.

“People drink more in society, so they

should be allowed to on campus,” he
said.

Vandalism and violence are products
of drunkenness, but only a few get that
way, according to Officer Wayne King.
Most people either drink moderately or
are inoffensively intoxicated.

Drinking-Age and Campus

(Continued from page !)

Freshman Halls

“We are working on a policy for the
freshman halls,” said Freshman Advisor
Katie Dagenhart. Although there are no
definite guidelines yet, Dagenhart said
the College could not sponsor hal! parties
serving alcohol if the age is raised.

Patterson Court Council President
and Freshman Advisor Rob Spaugh rec-
ognizes that there “definitely has to be
some kind of change,” but he hopes it
won’t affect social life on the Court.

Freshman halls will “work toward
non-alcohol related mixers,” said
Spaugh, even though stopping drinking
on freshman halls is impossible. He said
he can only speculate about what the
school’s actual policy for freshman halls
will be.

900 Room

Ross feels that the 900 Room will be
the aspect of social life most affected.

Because the College runs it, the law will
have to be strictly enforced. “It’s impor-
tant to have a place where the College
can sponsor and regulate the consump-
tion of alcohol,” said Ross. “A lot of stu-
dents are going to drink,” said Ross.
“The question is where, with whom, and
to what extent. A place like the 900
Room can regulate that. It will be distres-
sing if that is affected.” _

Union Director Shaw Smith said the
Union will set its policy after the CCRL
deliberates on the new law. ‘He said that
the Union’s guidelines will ultimately
depend on “what students come up
with.”

Smith “isn’t against anything that
saves lives,” but he wonders how the law
will effect the 900 Room. “How can you
keep a room open and exclude a large
portion of the student body?” he asked.

Smith said the Union has had no
problems with 17 year olds in the 900
Room, because there are few of them on

DUI Motivates Law Reform

campus. But trying to keep 19 year olds
out of the 900 Room will be more diffi-
cult. Because so many people will be
tempted to break the law, he hopes that
the law won’t breed a disregard for law
itself.

The Alcoholic Beverage Control
(ABC) licenses the college to serve beer
and wine in the 900 Room. The ABC
checks up on the college periodically.
Smith thinks the ABC would become
“more vigilant” once the law goes into
effect.

Smith said that the 900 Room would
close if North Carolina raises its drinking
age to 21.

The laws effect on Patterson Court
parties “would depend on what the ad-
ministration says,” said Rusk President
Sherri Lind. Emanon President Caroline
Boudreau agrees. “We would probably
have to be more careful when serving
beer, but we would follow the adminis-
tration’s guidelines.”

BY KELLY SUNDBERG

Keeping 18 year olds from drinking is not the direct-
ing force behind the pending North Carolina State Legis-
lature bill which would raise the legal age for consump-
tion of beer and wine to 19. The bill resulted from propo-
sals made by the Governor’s Task Force on Drunken
Driving. Accordingly, the bill focuses on changing
“driving under the influence” (DUI) laws.

The DUI bill includes four major points:

—Redefining the crime. The existing standard of
driving while “appreciably impaired‘ would be replaced
by “impaired driving”, applicable when the driver regis-
ters a .10 percent blood alcohol content (BAC) level ona
Breathalyzer machine or shows signs of impaired phys-
ical or mental facilities.

—Changing rules of evidence to facilitate DUI con-
victions technically. Breathalyzer test results would be

eed 8 age

presence being required.

—Eliminating plea bargaining. The lesser crime of
“driving recklessly after drinking”, which currently car-
ries no automatic driver’s license suspension, would be
eliminated.

—Enacting stiffer penalties. A driver’s license would
be immediately revoked for 10 days if he registers .10
percent BAC.

The pending legislation mirrors a national mood.
Since 1980, 38 states have formed DUI task forces simi-
lar to North Carolina’s. Drunken driving is also a pri-
mary concern for North Carolinians. A recent Charlotte
Observer poll found that a majority of state residents felt
that North Carolina legislators should make DUI legisla-
tion their top priority. ;

Public opinion also supports raising the legal drink-

sy wet y

Fr ae ar er ae ee ee ee

North Carolina adults would like to see the age for beer
and wine raised to 21. Twelve other states have already
raised their legal drinking ages. Statisucally, life expec-
tancy for Americans aged 16 to 24 has decreased in the
last 20 years as highway death tolls have increased. The
number of DUlI-related teenage deaths increased sig-
nificantly when many states lowered legal drinking ages
in the 1970's. The rationale behind raising the drinking
age for beer and wine to 21 is that one can get just as
drunk on beer and wine as on liquor—alcohol is alcohol.
If 18, 19, and 20 year olds have more trouble obtaining
alcohol, they will drink, drive drunk, and die less.

The legislature’s bill entails changing the drinking
age only to 19, however. Some observers have raised
questions about that portion of the DUI legislation. First,
enforcing a drinking age of 19 may prove impossible on

- a tae

not protect an 18-year-old from an older drunk driver.
