The Davidsonian/Friday, October 21,1983 3

Faculty To Review

Credit Hours Guidelines

By DAN VOORHIS

Davidson will take an important step
toward the credit hours system when the
Educational Policy Committee (EPC)
distributes its guidelines for conversion
to the faculty next week.

The report, to be presented before the
full EPC for approval on Monday, is the
effort of an EPC subcommittee formed to
design a workable conversion from the
old system of course credit to credit
hours. After circulating among the pro-
fessors, the report will be discussed at the
faculty meeting Nov. 8.

The EPC is the only committee de-
veloping the credit hours system. If the
faculty. approves the guidelines, the
sdubcommittee must then review all re-
quests for more or fewer credit hours for
a class. The College must work out a
feasible system by January if the College
is to convert to semesters for the 1984-85
school year.

The EPC based its suggestions on re-
sponses solicited from department heads
concerning the three major areas of the
credit hours problem. First, professors
were asked to assign credit hours to each
course in their departments. Second,
each was asked how many credit hours
would fulfill major requirements. The
third question involved what each
thought should be the number of hours
necessary for graduation.

Most courses will meet on either
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday for 50
minutes each or on Tuesday and Thurs-
day for 75 minutes each. Since credit
hours are based on the actual number of
hours of of instruction per week, called
“contact hours,” these courses would be
worth three credit hours.

Problems arise from classes such as
the lab sciences or Humanities. The gen-
eral rule for lab sciences, including the
physical sciences and psychology, is one
credit hour for each three hours of as-

signed lab per week. As a result, most lab
sciences will be worth four hours while a
few will be five.

The Humanities program will con-
tinue to meet five days a week for 50 mi-
nutes, making it worth five credit hours.
The program’s scheduling raises a
scheduling problem because it will take
up the space of two classes and require
students to schedule classes around it.

Language courses probably will not
receive extra credit for lab work.

When considering the number of
credit hours for major requirements,
most departments will probably maintain
the current 10-to-12 course load. Sub-
committee chairman professor Merlyn
Schuh said that a minor concentration
might be necesary “to force students to
take upper-level courses in areas besides
their majors.”

Another problem involves determin-
ing the number of credit hours required
for graduation. Because general faculty
sentiment is to remain at 36 classes, nine
per year, science majors would end up
taking a greater number of credit hours.

The minimum number of credit hours
to graduate is 108. A science major com-
pleting 12 four-hour courses in addition
to 24 regular courses would finish with
120 hours. This equals three or four extra
classes.

Schuh admits in this problem that
“the discrepancy is unavoidable. Science
will demand more semester hours for
graduation.” A compromise between
108 and 120 hours will probably be the
final faculty position, according to sub-
committee member professor J. B.
Stroud.

If approved by the entire faculty in
their Nov. 8 meeting, the final report
should end these conflicts. Sending the
suggestions out now is designedto draw
out all conflicts and questions from the
professors.

| Gran

tt

Bruce Von Stein

. Beth Maczka signs up participants for the CROP walk.

CROP Walk Hopes To Raise
$5000 For World Hunger

By KELLY SUNDBERG

The Davidson - North Mecklenburg
CROP Walk will take place Sunday Oc-
tober 23 at 2:30 p.m. A Fun Run, also
held to benefit CROP, will start at 2 pm,
with registration at 1:30. Organizers ex-
pect 200 participants to raise around
$5,000 to support CROP’s hunger fight-

ing efforts all over the world.

CROP Walk participants recruit
sponsors who pledge to contribute a cer-
tain amount for each kilometer the partic-

ipant walks.

This year’s ten kilometer walk is
routed through various Davidson neigh-
borhoods, passing six churches and local
industries; according to Walk .Coordi-
nator junior Beth Maczka. The walk’s
route has special benefits for Davidson
students, Maczka remarked: “It will give
us a chance to realize where we’re living
— so many students never see so many

parts of town.”

This year’s walk is marked by in-

creased cooperation among Davidson
area churches, other community organi-
zations and college groups. “This is an
experimental year for the churches work-
ing together,” Maczka noted. “There is a
lot of community interest — scout troops

and children from the community center
will be walking and helping with the rest
stops.” Maczka also reported positive re-
sponse from Patterson Court houses.

Twenty-five percent of the money
raised next Sunday will stay in David-
son, earmarked for the Hot Meals Pro-
gram, which provides a hot lunch daily
for older persons regardless of income.
Funds from the CROP walk will permit
this program to expand. The remainder
of money raised in Davidson will be ad-
ministered by CROP, the educational
and fundraising arm of Church World
Service, an organization of 31 Protestant
and Orthodox groups working in relief
and development since 1946. Funds
raised by CROP support hunger fighting
programs in over 70 countries on all con-
tinents.,

“We could raise money in other
ways,” Maczka said, “but walking is
special. It ought to remind us of the
people who have to walk miles — for
food or water, to the doctor or to school
— every day.”

Those interested in joining the CROP
walk should contact Beth Maczka at 892-
6710.

Evacuation Plans Set In Case Of McGuire Disaster

By DAVID McGEE

The town of Davidson has a plan for
the unthinkable. Because. Davidson les
within ten miles of a nuclear power plant,
the state requires Davidson to have an
emergency evacuation plan in case of an
accident at the McGuire nuclear power
station on Lake Norman.

The plan is a free-standing one, ac-
cording to Mayor Nancy MacCormac,
and could be used for any emergency.
Town, country, and state officials desig-
ned the plan to react to emergency re-
ports from McGuire. The plant has five
levels of emergencies: Level | (an un-
usual event), Level 2 (alert), Level 3 (site
emergency), and Level 4 (evacuation
necessary).

If an incident progresses to Level 3,
the fire department will notify the town
through a public address system and in-
struct people to turn on their televisions
and radios for additional -information.
The town’s schools, factories, and day
care center will also be contacted as well

Section of McGuire's emergency evacuation map

&

as the College, which has its own
emergency plan. Before this stage,
though, town officials will establish a
headquarters to carry out their pre-as-
signed duties. :

If evacuation is necessary, then stu-

oe

. -.e ~ 1 aes 288i
dents and residents will receive instruc-
tions to proceed to holding centers in
Troutman, 30 minutes north of .David-
son. Town residents -were informed this
eyear‘of the routes they are to take to the
“holding centers. For those who need

transportation or other help, three areas
have been designated as waiting centers:
the community center, Davidson
Elementary School, and the Fine Arts
Center on campus. Vans and College
Emergency Medical Technicians will be
available there.

“The plan assumes that emergencies
will proceed slowly,” MacCormac said.
For example, it may take several days for
an emergency to progress from Level 3 to
4. However, MacCormac said, town of-
ficials will have greater difficulty putting
the plan into operation if McGuire in-
forms them of an emergency already at
Level 3 or 4.

The plan was completed in Sep-
tember of 1980, and since then the public
has participated in one drill in 1981. A
drill is scheduled in November, but the
town has not received information on its
involvement in the drill.

Most cities and towns nationwide
have developed such plans as a result of
the Three Mile Island incident in 1979.
