Warren Wilson Falls Prey to Women

By KARA GILMORE ’85

The Lady Wildcats clawed their way
closer and closer to a victory this week
until they finally found suitable prey in
Warren Wilson at home Tuesday night.

The hunt began last Thursday night in
Hartsville, S.C. where the women took
on Coker College. The result of a hard-
fought, knock-down, dragout battle was
the short end of a 44-39 score.

Coach Dee Mayes was not quite satis-
fied with the officiating. “I’m not blam-
ing the loss on the officials; both teams
had to put up with them—but that was
definitely the most physical game I’ve
ever seen as a coach. It seemed to hurt
us more than them, because they were
fouling on a lot of our inside shots but
not getting called for it,” Mayes said.

The turning point came when David-
son was up by six points late in the
game. “They put on a full-court press,”
Mayes explained. “We turned the ball
over the first three times up the floor
against it, and they scored each time. It
was anew game then and they were on a
roll.”

The Lady Cats played even-up with
the hosts for much of the game’s re-
mainder, but down the stretch a few
Coker shots fell and a few Davidson
shots didn’t. “I feel confident, though,
that we'll beat them when we play them
here,” Mayes added.

Mike Frankhouser led the way with
15 points and 15 rebounds.

Saturday night the hunt continued in
Spartanburg, S.C. against Wofford
College. The Lady Cats came even clos-
er to snaring their prey as they lost by a
scant two points, 65-63.

The Lady Terriers are a predominant-
ly perimeter-shooting team. They aren’t
weak inside, however, with one big
player Mayes “didn’t feel was a threat.”

“We played all right in the first half,”
Mayes explained, “but we weren’t con-
centrating well and we weren’t as ag-
gressive as in the past few games. We
were playing hard but not as hard as we
could. We talked about it at half time
and came out ready for the second half.”

The talk didn’t appear to help, as the.
Cats soon fell 14 points behind, but the
defense solidified, and Davidson shots

started falling. The locker room talk
came to fruition as an altered play de-
signed to get the ball inside the Terrier
man-to-man defense to Frankhouser
‘took effect and she started scoring.
When Frankhouser wasn’t scoring in-
side, someone else was scoring outside.

Eventually the combined effective-
ness of Davidson’s offense and defense
brought the game to a tie, and at that
point the Terriers shifted into a tight
zone to keep the ball from Frankhouser
inside. The Lady Cat defense couldn’t
quite hold off the Wofford sharpshoot-
ers, so the game came down to the final
seconds.

“We had ample opportunities to win
in the last five minutes, but we just kept
missing easy lay up shots, then even
getting our own rebounds and missing
again,” Mayes said.

Frankhouser led the team with 22
points and 11 rebounds. Marie Cefalo
and Mitzi Short each added 11 points,
and Jeanne Womack pulled in 15 re-
bounds.

The hunt finally came to an end Tues-
day night in Johnston Gym, where the
prowling Cats found suitable prey in the

Owls of Warren Wilson. Davidson
started off quickly, jumping to a 6-0
lead and stretching the margin to 11 by
halftime, 31-20. Freshman guard Amy

Hartman sparked scoring in the first half

with 10 points. "

The Lady Cats went for the kill in the
second half. They never led by fewer
than 10 points, and coasted to a runaway
65-45 victory. .

Coach :Mayes said simply, “It was |

nice to win. Everybody got in and did a
really nice job.” Frankhouser led the at-
tack with 17 points and 18 rebounds,

and Amy Hartman finished with 12_

points. “

Frankhouser has been consistently su-
perb, and has been the key to David
son’s seventh place ranking among the
league’s 16 teams. Frankhouser is
among league leaders in both scoring
and rebounding. Frankhouser was nom-
inated for Player of the Week last week,
but did not win the honor.

Fortunately for Mayes, Frankhouser
has not been the only star for the team.
Mayes points out, “In recent games
more kids are seeing playing time and
are responding well. Whoever I put in is
doing a good job.” .

Wildcats Drop Two Costly Games

By STEVE SOUD ’84

Two valiant comebacks fell short as
the Wildcats dropped two important
games to the Tennessee contingent of
the Southern Conference.

Last Saturday Davidson battled
from a 16-point UT-Chattanooga lead to
go ahead by two, only to lose by eight,
71-63.

The first half was a near disaster as
the Wildcats, sticking with their 3-2
zone defense, were outscored 40-26.
Frankly, there wasn’t much good for
Davidson to say about the first half.

The second half, however, afforded
much to talk about. Bobby Hussey and
Co. abandoned the ineffective zone and
went with a stifling man-to-man de-
fense. The team itself claims it plays
better when it’s playing man-to-man,
and Moccasin Coach Murray Arnold,
whose team was miffed by the sudden
onslaught, might be inclined to agree. “I
never thought they could play us man-
to-man,” Arnold admitted, “and ob-
viously, neither did our players.”

In the next ten minutes Davidson
outscored the-dumbfounded Moccasins
26-12 to tie the game. Kenny Wilson
(23 pts., 6 rebounds) made it 28-12
when he tapped home his. own miss,
and, much to the astonishment of 8,000
spectators, the Wildcats led 54-52.

That’s when Willie White, the SC
MVP as a sophomore last year, took
matters into his own hands. White (22
pts.), who is NBA-bound luggage if the
SC ever sent any, hit an 18-footer to put
Chattanooga ahead for good, 58-56,
with six minutes to go. He widened the
lead to 61-56 with a three-pointer just
half a minute later.

Kenny Wilson matched White
down the stretch, to pull Davidson back
through, 63-60. Then, with 1:31 left
and KW again attempting to bull his
way through the lane, he walked—or
was he pushed?— and UT-C took over
the ball with a 65-60 lead.

The Wildcats had to resort to fouling
at that point, and from there on it was
academic, as the Mocs went on to win.

Monday night, 1800 Johnston Gym
fans saw the same sort of rally again fall
prey to poor first half play. The Bucca-
neers of East Tennessee State came
away 67-66 winners.

Cliff Tribus opened the game with
the first of his 12 field goals, and by the
14:02 mark Davidson had built on that
lead to go ahead 15-10, thanks in part to
a sensational Brian Rowan dunk and
subsequent free throw. With 10:11 left
the lead swelled to 21-12 after Rowar

hooped one over ETSU’s Winfred King
(14 pts., 13 rebounds).

Davidson’s surge came apart at the
seams, however, aided by the entry of
East Tennessee’s Troy Lee Mikell. Mi-
kell hadn’t played in either of the Buc-
caneers’ last two games, forced out by
injury. From the time of his entry to the
end of the half, East Tennessee out-
scored Davidson, 22-8. Mikell (6-0)
was unstoppable, hitting over 6-10 Tri-
bus, hitting while double teamed, and
hitting when open. In ten minutes of
play he scored 14 points.

Davidson’s chief problem in that
ten-minute span was not getting the op-
en shot but rather making it. Tribus and
Kenny Wilson put up an air ball each,
and by the time the final tally was taken
for the half, the Cats shot a sniveling 13-
39 from the floor.

East Tennessee led, 36-29.

The Bucs appeared to have a firm
grip on the lead as they built it 49-39
with 12:05 left. Then the much-he-
ralded freshmen, put in as park plugs for
the team, took over and did just as
planned. A lineup of John Carroll at
point, Pepper Bego at the two spot, Ger-
ry Born at KW’s three spot, Tribus at
the other forward, and Jim McConkey
at Brian Rowan’s center position did the

trick: They cut the Buccaneer lead,
which reached a 55-44 high water mark
with 9:22 remaining, back down to 5S-
48 with 7:48 remaining.

From that point, a flurry of Buc tur-
novers (East Tennessee had 17 turnov-

ers to Davidson’s 4) enabled Davidson |

to tie, 55-55, with 5:24 remaining. Car-
roll was clutch on the free throw line

ee oe

down the stretch, as he hit 5 of 6 one- °

and-one attempts to keep the Cats with-
in one, 64-65, with 1:08 remaining.
With :46 remaining, Carroll sent
Sonny Vinson to the line for the one-
and-one, and the Buc forward bricked

the front end. Tribus rebounded, and on |

the other end of the court he gave David-
son its first lead, 66-65, since the first
half with a 12-foot pull-up jumper.
The Bucs called time out with :17
remaining, and after the indbounds, Mi-

kell took the ball directly to the hoop to |
give East Tennessee a 67-66 lead with |

:10 remaining. Tribus called a Davidson
time out, and the Wildcats plotted to

pull the game out as they had done so |

many times before.

Richard Wilson successfully in-
bounded the ball to Carroll, but as he
crossed the time line Wildcat signals got

crossed and in the ensuing mix-up Da- |

vidson had by far the most costly of its
four turnovers.
slowly filed out the gym, 67-66 losers.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/21 January 1983.”

A heartbroken crowd |

