The Davidsonian/Friday, April 8, 1983 5

FEATURES

Human Sexuality Examined —

Dr. Thornberry Speaks
On Double Standard

By ROXANNA GUILFORD

Political science Professor Mary Thornberry ad-
dressed a full 900 Room audience on the double stan-
_ dards of sexual behavior Monday evening. She traced
the concept of a dual morality from the middle ages to
the present, emphasizing its implications for Davidson
men and women.

Her thesis centered on the debasement of human be-
ings. Women, being placed into a “virtuous mold,” be-
come somehow less than human. On the other hand, a
value system that allows men to stray seems to view
them as the “weaker sex”.

In either case, the personhood of a given individual
is compromised in order to fit a standard of morality.

In the middle ages, a woman’s sole virture was her
virginity (at least pre and extra marital virginity). This
was articulated by a 14th century writer quoted by
Thornberry, “Only once suspected for all to be lost.”
Any hint of scandal would ruin a woman. Tragically,
many still hold that same attitude today.

It is this double standard of morality (sexual and
otherwise) that leaves men free to innocently pursue the
same activities that would give a woman a reputation.
Thornberry mentioned drunkenness, dancing on tables,
flirting with and dating numerous partners as examples
of this. Men are congratulated; women are condemned,
she said. In the realm of sexual activity, it becomes the
slut/stud syndrome. But it is not always the woman who
suffers froin this perception of morality.

In addition to the terms slut and stud, there is the
problem of lady/wimp. Whereas a woman who is “good,
gentle, faithful, and self-controlled” is a lady, aman dis-
playing these virtues is often termed a wimp. Thornberry
used this example to show how Biblical standards have
been perverted and dualized. Yet while the Bible in-
tended the qualities for general application, Thornberry
asserts that in attuality they are only required for
women. Boys will be boys, as far as society is con-
cerned, and boys will misbehave.

Drawing on the non-duality of Christian virtue,
Thornberry emphasized the prohibition of gossip.
Among females, it allows one woman to justify herself
at the expense of another. The “virtuous” woman affirms
herself by spreading gossip, be it slanderous or truthful,
about another. By doing so, these women give implicit
approval of the system that renders them unequal and
even subjugated.

Often, even feminists support the double standard,
maintaining that if women had control they would not be
in better shape. Their justification is that women are
somehow inherently domicile. This is, in effect, the
same argument used to subjugate women for hundreds of
years. They are only restating the “higher priority” argu-
ment for their own preferences. In the long run, said
Thornberry, this could not only be self-defeating; it
could prove self-destructive.

Accepting a you-asked-for-it philosophy is also self-
destructive. Thornberry illustrated the “blame the vic-
tim” syndrome by citing the gang-rape of a woman in
New Bedford, Mass. Reactions included those who
blamed the woman for being alone in a bar, flirting, and
apparently for being a woman.

Thornberry called for a re-evaluation of ourselves
and of our relationships, with an attempt to incorporate
the full range of virtues for both sexes. It was this final
statement that started a field question and answer period.

One man suggested that the abolition of the double
standard was actually a major step to an asexual society.
Thornberry disagreed, maintaining that the elements
that make men and women unique are not bound up in
morality. Men and women can operate under an asexual
code of conduct yet remain fundamentally different in
other areas.

It was interesting to note that while Thornberry’s lec-
ture thoroughly developed her thesis, the ensuing dis-
cussion seemed to bear it out even more. Davidson stu-
dents, it appears, tend to view each other not as persons
but as reflections of their preconceived notions. Such
comments as “Davidson men never date Davidson
women,” “Men operate on desire but women do so on
feeling,” and “The man is the ‘giver’ in a sexual relation-
ship so it is the woman’s responsiblity to say ‘no’” are
evidence of this. There were, however, honest attempts
to probe the attitudes of the opposite sex and to under-
stand what it means to be male or female.

At one point a man asked outright, “What does it
mean to be female?” to which others countered, “What
does it mean to be male?” The general consensus was
that absolutes can no longer apply to sex roles. Such
roles are influx; they remain undefined.

Bolding, Wheeler,

Gay Activists Address
Homosexuality

Homosexuality was the topic Tuesday night in the
900 Room as the Committee on Women’s Concerns and
Y Student Service Corps presented the second evening
of a focus on sexuality at Davidson.

Panelists discussing misconceptions _ about
homosexuality included Director of Student Housing
Bill Bolding, staff psychologist John Wheeler, and three
representatives from the Charlotte gay community.

Bolding opened the evening by addressing some of
the myths about homosexuality, maintaining that
homosexuality does not have root in the individual’s
past. In response to an implication that gays choose

Mary Thornberry discusses the double standard

homosexuality, one of the gay activists, Simone, re-
torted, “What made you decide to be a heterosexual?”

Seldom was there any indication of defensiveness.
Presenting themselves as normal, happy people with sta-
ble lives, Billie, Simone, and Dan (they gave no last
names) demonstrated what they said: namely, homosex-
uals are human beings like everyone else. The only dif-
ference is the sex with whom they have sexual relations.

If anyone could be termed defensive, it would be the
audience. Some of the audience were disturbed by the
idea of homosexuals adopting children, so they dis-
cussed the effect of parents upon chidren. The panel re-
sponded by pointing outthat their parents were
heterosexual. Don cited a study in Science magazine
which presented children living with a homosexual set of
parents displaying no greater proclivity towards
homosexuality than any other children.

Role playing was another question area of discus-
sion. Many of the students wondered if in homosexual
relations one partner necessarily plays a more masculine
role while the other plays a more feminine role.

For the majority of the gay community, the answer
was no. This did not seem to satisfy some, who tried to
get Simone to admit that she wanted to play the man’s
role. (Concerning this issue, a young man made an inter-
esting comment in the Union cafe Afterward. “I don’t
know why they got so defensive about the butch/femme
stuff. Everyone knows that’s how homosexual relation-
ships are.”’)

Dan was asked how he reconciled his Christian be-
liefs to his lifestyle. His response traced Paul's supposed
condemnation of homosexuals to a misinterpretation.
Actually, he said, Paul was speaking against the “mor-
ally soft and the temple prostitutes.” He cited the oldest
extant copy of Romans as evidence.

One student spoke of a “sadness” she had noticed in
her homosexual friends and wondered if that was com-
mon. In response, the panel members brought out one of
the most important points of the evening; most of a gay
person’s problems come from heterosexuals. None of
the gay persons on the panel would care to become
heterosexual; none consider themselves depressed or
maladjusted.

If one common theme ran through the two-day focus
on human sexuality, it was the importance of under-
standing and acceptance. No one forced the audiences to
accept feminism or homosexuality as a different moral
code. Rather, various values, lifestyles, and ideas were
presented for observation and discussion.
