Friday, December 7, 1983/The Davidsonian

~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT |

Let’s Active: Easter’s Drive-In Rock’n’Roll

By STEPHEN MANK

People who go to the Milestone have
learned to expect just about anything —
after all, there’s no telling what surprises
a dilapidated house/nightclub with de-
lightfully erotic spray-painted messages
on the wall might hold. But when Mitch
Easter came onstage last Monday and

drawled an anti-climactic “hi,” he caught
just about everyone off guard.
But that’s just the point. Easter’s

band, Let’s Active, is as much an exer-
cise in normalcy as unconventionality.
While many groups today take too seri-
ous an approach to their music, Let’s Ac-
tive resembles more a garage band. In
fact, their E.P., Afoot was recorded in
Easter’s own Drive-In Studio, a con-
verted garage.

Their music is a peculiar blend of
spontaneity and slickness. The warm
jangly guitars, searing funk bass, and
rhythmic/anti-rhythmic drumming all

sound as if they are completely con-
trolled but at the same time on the brink
of some anarchic cacophony.

The band owes much of what it is to

Mitch Easter
Easter, who not only sings and plays
guitar but writes lyrics and music and
produces. His production alone has won

From The Green Room

Juggernauts Cruise

By TIM WAPLES

Sixteen of the College Bow! tourna-
ment’s 24 teams hung up the buzzer for
the 1983 season after Monday’s slate of
matches. Gone for a year are the high
hopes of the freshman hotshots. Gone are
the embarrassed silences, the bizarre an-
swers, and the hysterical laughter of the
not-so-competitive or the not-so-serious.
Let’s face it, folks: the teams that are left
are tough.

Eight teams have scratched and
clawed their way to the hollowed playoff
plateau. It hasn’t been pretty; they’ve
racked up a 34-6 record and mangled the
regular season opposition. However, it
won’t be so easy in January, when these
juggernauts meet each other head-to-
head in a double-elimination tourna-
ment.

Although most of the playoff berths
had been secured before Monday’s
matches, Rubber Babies had to rise to the
occasion to clip Gracefully Risque 210-
90, clinching an AL East bid. Cap’n Karl
“Mad Max” Pfefferkorn made a strong
bid for Airball of the Year by suggesting
that one of John Keats’s six great odes
was “Ode on a Rectal Examination.” The

Babies are sure to carry that same sort of
excitement into the tournament.
Although it had no bearing on estab-
lishing tournament spots, the game of the
week was definitely between number
two-ranked Better Luck Next Year and
undefeated Egomaniac and the Yes Men.
Interest was greatly heightened in this
match by the bitter literary feud taking
place between BLNY’s Ann “The
Meteor” Meador and Ego’s Joe
Jaworski. One could cut the tension in
the 900 Room with a knife, as observers
could clearly see that there was no love
lost between these powers. The Yes Men

tried to jump off to their trademark fast
start, but their shots wouldn’t fall and
BLNY’s fastbreak and unique scramble
defense proved the difference in a 275-
110 pasting. Even during the game tem-
pers flared, as normally mild-mannered
John Munson was provoked to public
outburst midway through the contest.
Playoff crowds can expect to see more of
this high+spirited action when the tourna-
ment gets under way on January 9.

Speaking of playoff crowds, if you
ever thought about watching College
Bowl but just never made it to the Union
on Monday night, you’ll want to get a
good seat to watch the festivities. Or
perhaps you were on a team that just
never got it all together. In the playoffs,
you can be sure that you’ll be seeing the
best. Remember to keep an eye out for
the “style” players like McGaughey or
Pfefferkorn. See firsthand the coaching
nuances of Steve Hughes and the cool
precision of top-ranked Whiplash. Look
for the matchups and perhaps a surprise
from the Green Room in the College
Bowl Corner sometime before Christ-
mas. In the meantime, here are the final
eight teams of College Bowl gladiators
and the divisions from which they
emerged.

AL West
I Phelta Thi 5-0
Fourth Estate 4-1

AL East
Whiplash 5-0
Rubber Babies 4-1

NL East
Pisces 4-1
Madd Mudd 4-1

NL West
Better Luck Next Year 4-1
Egomaniac and the Yes Men 4-1

him some fame, having recorded the
likes of the dB’s, R.E.M., and Pylon.
His production work started out as little
more than a hobby — “A friend and I

. used to like to make tapes on a Teac 4-

track machine,” he said.

Little by little Easter would find more
mixing consoles, microphones, recor-
ders, and effects he just “had to have”
until he finally achieved the several
thousand dollar studio he has today.

But even when he’s composing for
the group, he likes to record all the tracks
(guitars, vocals, bass, drums, and
keyboards) onto a demo for the others to
hear.

Let’s Active formed when Easter and
Bassist Faye Hunter decided they might

Sara Romweber

want to start a band. After looking at sev-
eral drummers they finally decided on
18-year-old Sara Romweber because,
Easter said, “She sounded most like me.”

The other members of Let’s Active
are by no means under Easter’s control.
Romweber’s amateurish-looking slugs at
the drums belie her distinctive heavy
rhythmic style which effortlessly
changes time signatures and accented
beats without pause. Hunter’s bass com-

Faye Hunter
bines the melodic style of Paul
McCartney with the clanking funk of
Stanley Clark.

Let’s Active, however is more than
just a band. It could almost be classified
as a way of life. “We have little rules for
just about everything,” Hunter
explained. Anyone who sees them per-
form could certainly understand what
they mean. Their style onstage is refresh-
ingly open and congenial — the drums
are not even ona platform. Their dress is,
to say the least, unusual. Easter wears
some kind of black African shirt, Rom-
wever wears a hole-filled sweater with
strings dangling off it, and Hunter wears
a scarf that looks like a (fishing net.
“We’re not anti-fashion,” Easter
claimed. “Fashion is fun. We just don’t
like the clichés, like those sleeveless
Japanese shirts.”

Ironically, the name Let’s Active
came from a magazine article which said
that American phrases are very popular
on Japanese products. One shirt showed
the inadequacy of Japanese translation
by flaunting the phrase “let’s active.”
“Plus the name had an apostrophe and a

v’ so we had to use it,” grinned Easter.

MBA

Vanderbilt

wan opportunity to study at a prestigious
major university

@a challenging two year, full time MBA
program for tomorrow's business leaders

® concentrated study and practical experi-
ence in accounting, finance, marketing,
organizational behavior, operations man-
agement, and management information
systems

@high starting salaries and outstanding
placement opportunities with major cor-

o-  porations throughout the U.S.

@ scholarships for proven academic achiev-

ers

* Name

Consider a Masters in Business Administration
Vanderbilt University’s Graduate School of Management Offers:

* @ an opportunity to live and study in a thriv-

Please send me information concerning Vanderbilt's Graduate School of Management.

ai

@ financial assistance for students demon-
strating need

ing business, entertainment, and cultural
center of the mid-South

For information and an application write or
phone:
Office of Admission, Room 600
Owen Graduate School of
Management
Vanderbilt University
Nashville, Tennessee 37203
® (615) 322-6469

_ Address

City

State Zip

Telephone ( )

Graduation Date

Undergraduate College or University

