14.

Football Preview

Injuries Plague Wildcats

By SCOTT HUIE

Davidson head football, coach Ed
Farrell, who loves talking football even
more than Fat Albert loves playing it,
pauses for a moment during an interview
in his office. From his desk drawer he
pulls out two items, the 1983 media
guide and the 1983 schedule card, one in
each hand.

“You know, when I thumb through
this,” he says as he flips through the
media guide, “I am very optimistic about
our prospects for the upcoming year.
Overall, our personnel is better, as we
simply have more good athletes that
we've had in a long time. But then I
glance over here at our schedule card,
and I become a bit pessimistic. Heck, we
play some awfully tough teams.”

Get used to it, coach. For the first
time in ten years, Davidson will compete
in the rugged Southern Conference and
consequently will be eligible for the
championship, if we dare to think that far
ahead. Although their conference
schedule this year includes only Furman
and the Citadel, three other games will be
counted in the Southern Conference
standings—games against Lafayette
(Sept. 17), James Madison (Oct. 1), and
South Carolina State (Oct. 15).

As evidence of what the Southern
Conference is all about, take Davidson’s
game against Furman, the only Southern
Conference opponent the Wildcats faced
last year. Furman won 63-14, but it could
have been much worse had the Paladins’
coaching staff not put in their club foot-
ball team in the second half. True, Fur-
man won the championship, but you get
the picture. The Southern Conference is
serious football.

Errors Cost Cats 21-7 Loss 160 Wofford =

By
Without any
Keith’Martin insists that Wofford’s left

TT HUIE

defensive end was on the line. Freshman

Mike Cate, who made the block, agrees.
“Hey, if that guy was downfield, then
I'm O.J. Simpson.”

Well, Mike, we'd better start calling
you the Juice, at least according to the re-
ferees. With Davidson down 21-7 early

inthe fourth quarter, Martin connected to nity was there. We Just’ hake’ R wv cached
-split end Jeff McSwain ona slant into put « costly breakdowns.”

the Cats on the Wofford one-yard line,
signaling what seemed to be the start of a
comeback reminiscent of the one two

years ago. The referees, however, had‘

other thoughts, ruling that Cate had made
an illegal block downfield. The ball was
brought back to the 25, and Davidson
never recovered.

Of course, hindsight is always
much time admiring the ball’s trajectory

Friday, September 16, 1983/The Davidsonian

sitation quarterback

On paper, the Wildcats should finish
either 2-8 or 3-7, being the clear favorite
against Guilford and Catawba, and a
toss-up against Newberry. It gets tough

after that: Wofford, Lafayette, James
“Madison, South Carolina State, Citadel,

Furman, and Bucknell: Such teams find
themselves in IAA top 20 rankings with
alarming regularity.

But as the old sports adage goes,
stranger things have happened, so
Wildcat fans should not immediately
scream “Wait until basketball season.”
Farrell speaks keenly of his defense and
points out his offense should not be writ-
ten off either: “We could very easily pull
off some upsets if teams aren’t careful.”

The Wildcat defense revolves around
the two rocks, senior linebacker Will
“Stone” Bynum and junior defensive end
D.E. Wright, who both have solid shots
at all-conference honors. The defensive
secondary, though young and inexperi-
enced except for junior comerback D.D.
Wright, is the quickest and deepest in re-
cent memory.

Conceming the offense, Farrell says,
“Our overall philosophy has always been
to come with a balanced attack, but
somehow, I think we just might pass a lit-
tle more this year. We don’t have that re-
ally physical offense that is going to
pound out 90-yard drives at four yards a
crack.”

Keying this attack will be senior
quarterback Keith Martin, who, accord-
ing to. Farrell, has “great commitment as
well as the attributes.” The running game
will definitely be bolstered with the re-
turn of injured halfback David Turner, a
bolting colt whose athletic prowess has
hardly made it past the practice fields due
to injury.

dangerous, and such judgment calls
might simply fall into the category of
“home field advantage.” Nevertheless, it
is interesting to think what could have

been.

What was, however, was simply a
21-7 loss to the NAIA 8th-ranked Wof-

ford Terriers. If it is any consolation,
Davidson lost to them last year 54-0.

Said Coach Eq Farrell, “The opportu-

cael d ve

Those breakdowns came early in the

second half. On the third play of David-
son’s possession, Martin’s pass was
picked off at the Wildcat 20-yard line.
Wofford marched’ it in from there.
Breakdown number two came a couple
of minutes later. Punter Jay Poag lofted a
long spiralling punt deep into Wofford
territory. Davidson’s punt coverage
team, however, must have spent’ too

ye}

In fact, injuries have plagued the
team all preseason. Nothing epitomizes
the situation more than at center, where
converted defensive tackle Mike Marbert
is expected to start after four other candi-
dates either fell to injury or did not return
to the team. Add to the injury report the
fact that the Cats only play four home
games and the outlook is rather bleak.

as the Wofford return man jukéd around
all 1! shirts. The last man to have a shot
at him, Poag, claimed he got
“Herscheled” around. After that 70-yard
TD run, Davidson could never regroup.

Offensively, the bright spots were
McSwain’s catching and Cate’s running,
which accounted for 70 percent of the
Cats’ 215 yards of total offense. Despite.
two costly fumbles — “freshman mis-
caxes™ “according 'to~Marrelt"= *Cate-
showed ‘flashes of brilliance that might
cause Wildcat fans to forget the name
Ray Sinclair. The freshman gained 72
yards on 13 carries and bounced off
would-be defenders with remarkable
ease. He also returned four punts for 38
yards, returned a kickoff ‘16 yards, and
completed a halfback pass for 10 yards.
Mr. Versatility will be a welcomed addi-
tion to the backfield.

Qn defense, the’ stopper,’ Will

Yen if
dr

“Yep,” concludes Farrell, “After weigh-
ing all the variables, I see we'll definitely
be the underdog this year.”

Being in such a position may well be
worth the thrill. After all, look at the
Wildcats’ company: King David, the
Miracle Mets of °69, the 1983 Wolfpack
of N.C. State. Stranger things have hap-
pened.

“Ty Wav yee

Bynum, provided his usual steady per-
' formance with 18 tackles and one inter-
ception.
In tomorrow’s home opener, the Cats
face the Lafayette Leopards, who are
. ranked 6th nationally in Division 1-AA
by Sports Illustrated. In last year’s meet-
ing between the two teams, Lafayette
was the destroyer, 49-14, and this year’s
squad appears even more formidable.
then backactl boasts two 1,000-yard”
Tunners and a potential all- America
quarterback who Farrell calls “the best in
the business.” Defensively, they
specialize in stopping the run (last week,
they gave up a minus 22 yards rushing!)
but appear vulnerable to the pass. Watch
out for Martin’s aerial attack. If he can
consistently hit the open receiver, things
could get interesting.
Huie’s Prediction:
Lafayette 34 Davidson 20
