THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIIl, Number 16

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, February 10, 1984

Davidson students enjoyed Monday’ s snow by viciously attacking Watts dormit-
ory with menacing snowballs and unforgiving stares

No Health Violation In
Possible PCB Storage

By DAN VOORHIS

Electric transformers found two
weeks ago on Davidson College property
have been tested tested and found not to
contain enough PCB to violate health
laws. No further legal action will be
taken, and the fate of the transformers
lies in College hands.

- Mecklenburg County Department of
Environmental Health officer John-Gib-
son stated that the lab complted testing of
all samples last week and that all were
below levels set by federal toxicity laws.
He said that “if they took all the PCB
from all the transformers and put it in
one, it still wouldn’t be enough to mat-
ter.” Instead, the unused transformers
continued the standard mineral oil as

coolant. The tests cost the College ap-
proximately $9,500.

The transformers were found in the
woods behind the golf course but no
leaking as had been reported. Instead,
said Gibson, two were sweating but
“even if they had spilled, it wouldn’t be
enough PCB to clean up.”

Director of the Physical Plant Grover
Meetze released a statement on the mat-
ter:

‘Davidson College stores a supply of
transformer for repairs and electrical
emergencies.

“January 26, 1984 the News Depart-
ment of WSOC and The Davidsonian
took photographs of these transformers.

(continued on page 4)

Lack Of Funding Hurts

News Analysis

By JOHN GATHINGS
Davidson College athletic depart-

ment members expressed concern over ~

the athletic budget’s current size when
questioned in a forum last Thursday.
They emphasized a need for additional
funding to improve facilities, strengthen
the recruiting program, and increase the
size of the staff.
Inadequate Facilites

Lack of funding is delaying the con-
struction of the new athletic complex,
forcing players to tolerate insufficient fa-
cilites. Referring to the gym, tennis
coach Jeff Frank said, “It wasn’t ade-
quate when the college was all men.. .
to add S00 women” compounds the prob-
lem. Right now, the women’s locker

room is in what used to be coaches’ of-
fices.

Athletic Director Ed Farrell said,
“For a college like Davidson we spend a
large amount on athletics and physical
education.” However, he said, “For what
we are attempting to accomplish, we
don’t spend enough.”

Farrell pointed out the fact that Wil-
liams, a college with approximately
2,000 students, “is spending $10.5 mil-
lion for renovations, and we are quibbl-
ing ovre $11 million for a major facility.”
He estimated the total worth of the Wil-
liams facilities at $50 million.

Currently, fund-raising efforts for the
complex are proceeding slowly. Farrell
said, “We are quite a way from complet-
ing it.” Frank said, “We need anew com-
plex even if we have to go out on Trade
Street and sell bodies.”

Peggy Pierotti

Self-Selection Leaves 59
On Rusk Waiting List

By DAVID RESNIK

Of 366 freshmen 267 self-selected
into Patterson Court eating houses Sun-
day.

Women’s Houses

Rusk House filled all its spots and
had 59 women on its waiting list. Rusk is
setting up a committee to consider sev-
eral options including expanding or
forming another women’s eating house.

Warner Hall also filled all its spots
and had 15 women on its waiting list.

Rusk president Sherri Lind said a de-
mand exists for a new women’s eating
house, but such a move would be unwise
since the number of women entering
Davidson varies from year to year. Lind
noted that this year’s freshman class is 43
percent women, a high percentange.
while next year’s class may be smaller.

Lind said the women on her house’s
waiting list can still belong to Rusk as so-
cial members. Although they could join
another eating house, Lind anticipates
that most of the women on the waiting
list will eat at the Commons, since they
would face a fine if they dropped out of a
Patterson Court House in order to fill an
available space at Rusk.

Co-ed Houses

Only 14 freshmen chose to eat at Fan-
nie and Mable eating house. Since
F & M will lose nearly 30 seniors after
this year, they will probably have fewer
than 50 members next year, according to
treasurer Mark Steiner.

F & M president Sherri Schwenke
said that declining membership will be a
problem for F & M next year. She hopes
women on Rusk’s waiting list will join
F & M.

Schwenke also noted that there
“seems to be less of an interest in eating
co-ed this year.”’ She speculated that this

Athletics

No Money

A small budget affects all athletic
teams, according to Farrell. “We need
more money in the total athletic pro-
gram,” he said. Right now we are “over-
spending an insufficient budget.” (See
table on page 4.)

This deficit in funding affects the
quality of the athletic program as a
whole. Farrell said, “It’s a dilemma for
the College when you consider the
amount of money being spent isn’t
enough. People who have good pro-
grams spend more than we spend. They
field more teams and have more ac-
tevities.”

Although the budgeting affects all
sports, there is a tendency to focus on
minor sports. In taking about the soccer
team, soccer coach Charlie Slagle said.

(continued on page 4)

may reflect a national trend toward re-
vived interest in fraternities and
sororities.

Eighteen freshmen selected Emanon
and 22 selected PAX. Both houses will
have more than 60 members next year,
however, and will have no problems with
declining membership.

Fraternities

Seventeen freshmen and two up-
perclassmen decided to eat at the Phi
Delta Theta house. Phi Delt president
Bob Letton expects to pick up some new
members before the year ends. Letton
said Phi Delt will have about 40 members
next year, but the fraternity should have
no trouble operating, since they survived
this year with 37 members.

Thirty-one freshmen decided to eat at
Sigma Alpha Epsilon house. According
the SAE president Ben Williams, two
freshmen self-selected SAE as their only
choice (shotgunned). One of the shot-
gunners was voted in and the other with-
drew. The SAEs will have approxi-
mately 80 members next year.

Pi Kappa Alpha gained 29 freshmen
through self-selection. The PiKAs wil!
have approximately 80 members next
year. Twenty-four freshmen decided at
the Kappa Alpha house. The KAs will
have 70-75 members next year.

PiKA president Todd Wiebusch felt
that self-selection went smoother this
year than in past years. He attributed the
improvement to Dean of Students Will
Terry’s Patterson Court Committee. KA
president Sam Hay = agreed with
Wiebusch, adding that the Committee
did a good job of educating freshmen and
“making them aware of their obliga-
tions.”

Terry was also pleased with the Com-

(continued on page 4)

Inside This Week

Beefcake

‘Calendar Boys:

comes to town. Page 6

‘History of. Blacks: The first
black student arrived’at Davidson 21
years ago. Read more on page 5

‘Workshop Three: Arias and
overtones. A review of each is on page
6

-Gotterdammerung?: = Soud
examines the national perspective of
college athletic funding. Page 10

‘Blacks at Davidson: Opinions
articles explore the questions which re-
main unresolved. Pages 11-13

