4 Friday, May 11, 1984/The Davidsonian

Caldicott Delivers Lecture On Nuclear Arms

By ROXANNE GUILFORD

“Using logical, emotional, and factual
appeals, Helen Caldicott addressed a
nearly full Love Auditorium Monday
evening on “Living in the Nuclear Age.”
The receptive audience gave Caldicott an
enthusiastic welcome at the beginning
and a standing ovation when she
finished.

Caldicott prefaced her remarks by
explaining why she was at Davidson. In
this election year, she said, North
Carolina is of great importance, for it is
represented by “one of the most danger-
ous men in the Senate,” Jesse Helms.
Counting back from Nov. 6, she argues
that “we have six months to save the
earth.” If we don’t “use our democracy,”
she said, we help make nuclear war an
absolute certainty.

Stating that “American has led the
arms race,” she maintained that the
Soviet Union is simply following suit.
As Caldicott sees it, the greatest rivalry is
not between the USA and the USSR, but
between the branches of the Armed Ser-
vices. Her book Missile Envy deals with
this area.

One example she gave of “missile
envy” pertains to size. Although some
Soviet weapons are less accurate due to
size, Caldicott points out that in asking
for more funds, Pentagon officials ap-

peal to the size contrast. Throughout the’

lecture, she pointed to the “‘psychosex-
ual” aspect of the arms race that makes it
more of a virility contest than national
defense.

Caldicott dismissed the idea of a
“limited nuclear exchange” by stating
that any war can lead to annihilation,
since there is no way to stop excalation.
“Anywhere, at any time, we can blow up
our world.”

Turning to the nerve center of our nu-

clear defense, Caldicott cites a study by

Senators Hart and Mondale that shows
how inert our key complex systems de-
fences are. She found the movie War
<Games frighteningly accurate. In addi-
tion to computer malfunctions (which
she says led a red alert in November

1979), the humans in control are often
impaired by drugs and/or alcohol. She
also points out that “old men” are in the
positions of power, and that they “tend
not to think clearly.”

For the following few minutes, Cal-
dicott proceeded ‘to describe a nuclear
war. If her initial statement “I am going
to drop a bomb on you” was not disturb-
ing enough, her words were punctuated
by a disconcerting distant siren. She con-
tinued, subtly aware of the interruption,
and, examined the absurdity of our cur-
rent civil defense procedures. Included
are such things as plans to evacuate 180
million people (with a 20 minute warn-
ing) and admonishions to always carry a
shovel.

Once she made clear the futility of

civil defense, she went on to discuss the —

effects of a 20 megaton bomb. An actual

.bomb would make a hole 3/4 mile wide

and 800 feet deep, she said, adding that
all buildings within six miles would be
flattened and all living creatures would
be vaporized. Within 20 miles, everyone
would either be killed or fatally
wounded. Winds reaching 500 mph
would turn people into missiles, and
“popcom” windows, sending glass fly-
ing everywhere. Eyes would melt and
many people would be turned into “‘char-
coal statues.”

At 26 miles, drapes, leaves, clothes
and the like would spontaneously com-
bust. Anyone looking at the flash from
40 miles away would suffer retinal blind-
ness.

In addition to these immediate ef-
fects, she cited scientists, including Carl
Sagan, who describe the long term ef-
fects of a nuclear war. They describe a
“nuclear winter” in which vegitation
would die and the temperature would re-
main around 55 degrees farenheit. Eve-
ntually, this would led to total extinction.

Caldicott pointed to a World Health
Organization (WHO) report that set the
“threshold for extinction” at 1000
bombs. Not only did the USA not vote to
accept this report, but currently, Reagan
is trying to increase our stockpile by
17,000 more bombs, she said. From

ive

Women’s Tennis Team

(continued from page !)
San Diego 1-6, 6-4, 6-4.

Johnson and Ives sealed the cham-
pionship with a win in the number 2 dou-
bles finals where they beat Amy Sturdiv-
ant and Pat Gilbert of Cal-San Diego 6-4,
7-6.

loch, who played the number I and 2
spots respectively for Davidson, did not
advance to the final round. Podolin won
6-0, 6-4 over Helen Kuwayama of Occi-
dental. Lutz defeated Jamie Rund of
Mary. Washington 6-1, 4-6, 6-3. And
Johnson outlasted Lisa Gilbert of Cal-

Trissy Lomax, owner

28036
892-7521

2 Uae a tM bast ok

Order in advance—
Wine & Beer by the case:
Cost plus 10%

Keg beer: |

y Le - Cost plus 10%
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C

these and other facts, Caldicott con-
cluded that the administration is out to
win a nuclear war. To worsen matters,
we are paying for this with our tax
money; we even finance the Pentagon
lobbists in Congress, according to Cal-
dicott.

After establishing the presence of the
threat, recounting its history and at-

tempting to assign some responsibility,

Caldicott turned to the question of how to
stop the threat of a nuclear war. Recruit-
ing poor and black voters was one of her
Suggestions, as was “electing the right
people.” When she asked the audience if
they really believed that they lived in a
democracy, no one raised a hand. Cal-.
dicott affirmed this, maintaining that the
corporations run the country. Still, she
insisted that the voter can change things,
especially in Congress, where military
funding takes place.

As though to give her audience an im-
petus to vote for change, Caldicott des-
cribed her visit with President Reagan.
His initial reaction to her anti-nuclear
stand was “You are an Australian who
read On the Beach and is afraid of nucle-
ar war.” Despite this, she termed him a
“nice, affable guy.”

However, she said “every statement

he made was factually inaccurate.”
Whenever she would try to explain her
side to him, “his eyes just sort of glazed
over.” While it was an “affable meet-
ing,” Reagan had “no background data at
all.” His major source was the Reader’ s
Digest, she said.

She didn’t restrict her criticisms to
Reagan. She described the Soviets as a
“paranoid people.” They are “terrified”
and sure a nuclear war is in the offing. To
antagonize them, she explains, is to in-
crease the possibility of a nuclear war.

‘lowards the end of her talk, she

turned to the issue of children. “It’s the
children we have tosave . . .Ababyisa
baby.”

From this basis she went on to main-
tain that nuclear war is a deeply religious
and emotional issue. It calls for men to
relinquish their “macho” image and for
women to become self-confident and
strong. The issue demands action, she
said.

She ended her talk, answered ques-
tions, and appeared at a reception after
the lecture. Soft-spoken, yet articulate in
person, she managed to belie the exhaus-
tive nature of her busy schedule. She will
go next to Oregon to spread her word of
peace through peace.

Helms Representative

(continued from page |)

students decided to ask the Helms re-
pesentative to leave Chambers.

“We felt where he was not the best
place for him to be,” Alves said. Accord-
ing to Alves, senior Chris Gunn received
permission for the representative to set
up a display in the Union. Alves said she
explained to Williams her reason for re-
questing that he leave. “To me, it was of-
fensive to black students on campus to
have him here,” she said. After some re-
sistance, she said, Williams agreed to
leave. He did not goto the Union, instead
he left campus.

According to Holt, the group of stu-
dents asked Williams to leave at 1:30
p.m. Because he had planned to leave at
2 p.m., he decided not to move his dis-
play to the Union.

“Why is there such a big stink about a
representative for a conservative cause

KING OF PIZZA

meoreew* FAMILY NIGHT

coming to campus when so often we have
representatives here for liberal concerns
and nothing like this happens?’ Holt
asked. “It’s not so much an issue of Jesse
Helms as it is an issue of differing opin-
ions.”

Trustees

continued from page!) .

Gardener, Jr. (Drama and Speech), John
E. Kello (Psychology), William D. Law-
ing (Music), James G. Swisher (Music),
Mary C. Thornberry (Political Science),
and Russ C. Warren (Art). The Trustees
awarded tenure to Assistant Professors
Laurence S. Cain (Physics), Stephen L.
Davis (Mathematics), Thomas A. Kazee
(Political Science), James G. Swisher
(Music), and Russ C. Warren (Art).

Every Monday Might
5 To 10
PIZZA
BUY ONE PIZZA
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SZ
FREE

oe
