Friday, February 17, 1984/The Davidsonian 9

-From The Locker Room

Division Il Schools Have Different Philosophy

By STEVE SOUD

The essential difference between highly selec-
tive, small colleges that opt for NCAA Division III
status (no scholarships) and the Division I schools in-
vestigated last week is a matter of philosophy. Essen-
tially, I think, highly selective schools competing at
the Divison III level regard athletics as only an ex-
tracurricular outlet for the students. They feel that
anything much larger jeopardizes academic quality,
misdirects a student’s efforts, and strains an already
tight budget. Perhaps Williams College demonstrates
this best.

Williams: Enrollment: 2,000. Conference: East-
ern Intercollegiate. App. Median SAT: 1290. Ac-
cording to Athletic Director Robert Peck, “One of the
questions you have to ask — and to me it’s the first
question — is, ‘Are they [the conference members]
trying to do the same thing you are?’ What kills a con-
ference is a couple of places with people who do it
right and a couple of schools who are taking thugs.”
Peck can speak from experience. He was athetic di-
rector at Boston University when it won a national
championship in ice hockey. He prefers Williams be-
cause “philosopically we’re doing the right things.”
That philosophy, stated fundamentally, is, “We are
providing a good athletic experience for kids so that
they can hopefully grow to their potential athleti-
cally.”

Williams takes this matter seriously: they offer 49
team sports, about 30 of which are varsity teams. Of
the varsity sports, football receives $38,750 (not in-
cluding salaries, secretarial services, and grounds
maintenance), basketball, $11,850; soccer, $8,570;
and baseball $6,400 (not including a spring trip).
They play against similar philosophies, such as Bow-
doin, Bates, Hamilton, and Middlebury. When com-
paring Williams's relation to its conference and
Davidson’s to the Southern, one must note that geo-
graphic locality enables Williams’s teams to spend
very few overnight trips: the basketball team has only
one per year.

Carleton: Enrollment: 1,800. Conference: Min-
nesota Intercollegiate. App. Median SAT: 1240.
Carleton’s decision to play at the Division III level
dates back to around World War II. They likened ath-
letics to any other student activity, such as the choir
or the student newspaper. Sports are participation
oriented: there are cuts only on the golf and skiing
teams, which some students might use to save greens
fees or lift tickets.

The Carleton football program is of special note.
According to Bill Huyck, the Sterling Martin of
Carleton, five years ago the football team fielded
only 35 players. They’ ve now got a new coach called

a ‘fine recruiter and a gifted coach,” and they field 74
players. The Carletonian, Carleton’s student news-
paper, recently did an exposé on the football program
there and found the football players to score compara-
bly with the rest of the student body on the SAT ver-
bal, and score better than average on the math.
Moreover, Huyck explains that the program brings in
“an element of the student body that would not be
here otherwise.” These people are more “gregarious,
confident, and people-oriented” than the bulk of
Carleton students. (At Davidson, athletics likewise
bring in a minority element: blacks. About 65-70 per-
cent of Davidson’s black student population are
athletes.)

Swarthmore: Enrollment: 1|,350. Conference:
Middle Atlantic Intercollegiate. App. Median SAT:
1280. In the 1920s Swarthmore was trying to com-
pete with all the local colleges, including Penn and
Princeton. But, as Athletic Chairman David Smoyer
explains, “There was a feeling that that was leading to
too much of a schism between those who were
athletes and those who weren’t. The president de-
cided that athletics were going to be an integral part
but not a controlling part.

The Swarthmore budget breaks down as follows:
football receives $15,000 for 43 participants, basket-
ball $7,100 for 25 participants (varsity and JV), soc-
cer $6,200 for 45 (varsity and JV), and baseball
$4,000 for 23. Of course, the football and basketball
budgets are tiny compared to Davidson's, but the
minor sports are smaller as well. This in large part
due to the fact that three hours is a long trip for Swar-
thmore team. There are 25 schools in the MAC alone.

“Swarthmore definitely feels that athletics are im-
portant,” says Smoyer summarily. “At the same
time, it doesn’t feel that athletics should be such a
policy that it has a negative impact on academics. We
believe the basic reason a student comes here is to
take the courses, and then come the extracurricular
activities. That isn’t to say [athletics are not] impor-
tant, but it is to say [they] aren’t controlling.”

Applying It to Davidson

The final question remains: how to apply all this
to Davidson? One point has been made clear to me
through this study: Davidson’s current situation is in
many ways unique. Davidson is the only school in the
country trying to run a need-based football program
and a full-scholarship basketball program. (One offi-
cial called it “suicide.”) Davidson would also be the
smallest member in William’s conference. It is a
noble experiment, and one that is surprisingly suc-
cessful overall.

Several points must be considered (more
thoroghly than space allows here) before the question

can be answered. Does Davidson have any business
in big-time athletics? Is the Southern Conference
philosophically compatible to Davidson? Do high
quality athletes jeopardize academic caliber? Is
Davidson geographically excluded from Division II
competition? Should tradition have any weight in the
decision? Do the programs help integrate the student
body?

In my final analysis, I think Davidson is more
analogous to Rice and Northwestern than the Ivies or
Williams, Swarthmore, Carleton, etc. We are geo-
graphically bound from serious Divison II competi-
tion. (Guilford recently sought a geographic waiver
from the NCAA in its move for Division III member-
ship but was refused.) High quality athletes don’t
jeopardize academic caliber — witness Rice, North-
western, and the Ivies. The Southern Conference,
with the exceptions of UT-C and Marshall (which is
admitting athletes with microscopic GPAs) is
philosophically compatible to Davidson in many re-
spects.

Tradition has a weighty role in the question.
Davidson has a tradition of playing schools far bigger
and better equipped than itself, although we will
probably never regain Top Twenty prominence, we
can consistently be a force with which to be re-
ckoned. Beating Notre Dame last year was exciting,
fun, and euphoric. I cannot imagine gaining similar
pride through beating Catawba. We must remind our-
selves that Davidson hasn’t one of the most culturally
diverse locations in the world, and Divison I athletics
help to make it more attractive. Although this was not
a deciding factor in my coming to Davidson, | look
back upon it as one of the most exciting and reward-
ing aspects of my stay here.

There can be little doubt that, as Smoyer said,
were Davidson located in the Northeast, it would un-
doubtedly compete, like Hopkins, at the Division I
level in basketball (at Hopkins it’s lacrosse) and at
Division III in everything else. You see, the NCAA
allows a school either to compete at Division I in ev-
erything but football, or to compete at Division III in
everything but one sport. The Southern Conference
excludes the former, geography the latter.

As Cortez of Northwestern reminds us, “We de-
cided we can compete. We do it without compromis-
ing. If you’re gonna do anything, do it the best you
can. Don’t be content with running the middle of the
road.” Davidson for too long now has been running
the middle of the road. Let’s get after it in both
academics and athletics, for the two aren't mutually
exclusive. We can do it and be an example to the rest
of the country without compromising. And that's the
key.

JHODGKG) 8

A great way of life

IF YOU WANT TO BE A PHYSICIAN,
WE’LL PAY FOR IT.

If you're willing to invest your skills and
knowledge as an Air Force medical officer,
we'll invest in you and pay your way through
medical school. It’s the Armed Forces Health
Professions Scholarship Program and it pays
for tuition, books, supplies, equipment and
lab fees plus a monthly income of more than
$550. See your Air Force recruiter for details.

TSGT BOB PAYNE
CALL COLLECT
919-755-4134

Order in advance—

Wine & Beer by the case:
Cost plus 10%

Keg beer:

Cost plus 10%

Trissy Lomax, owner
Main St.-Davidson, N.C
28036
892-7521

128 S.

