4 Friday, April 6, 1984/The Davidsonian

Drug Use At Davidson: Esca

(continued from page !)

pot is always available. One reason for
increased drug use comes from the Col-
lege’s lenience in punishing drug users,
they said. “The College actively covers
up for people. Davidson is a secure envi-
ronment for doing drugs. You are away
from legal authorities and the College
does not want a scandal. At the same
time they cover up, they do a good job of
finding out who does them.”
The Dean’s Actions

Terry denied that drug users are pro-
tected here, and several recent actions he
has taken point to stricter policies toward
drug use. He has asked campus security
to notify him of any students using or
selling drugs. He has also sent letters to
parents “in a few cases.” Said Terry, “I
do not know in the last four years of any-
one proposing to have a bust. If it would
be necessary [to bring in legal au-
thorities] to cut out the sale of drugs, |
certainly would not want to do that. But
we can not neglect the sanction of the
sale of drugs on campus.”

Terry said dorm evictions may be
used. In addition, the freshman hall
counselors for next year have decided not
to give first warnings to freshmen who
smoke pot or use other drugs illegally in
the freshmen dorms, instead those
caught will be turned into the Dean after
the first offense.

Hall counselor Thomas Evans said
that the hall counselors this year felt that
the freshmen class was using pot more
than past freshmen classes had. He said
there have been more warnings this year
because of greater awareness of
freshmen drug use and emphasized that
the problems with freshmen drug use this
year has been one with individual
freshmen.

Terry emphasized that his aims are
not necessarily punitive. “If a student has
a drug problem and they can’t solve it,
then we can give them time [to seek
help]. A way to help with the problem
might be to involve parents who are con-
cerned about their son’s or daughter's
problem,” he said. Terry plans to ask the
new president to devote funds for more
drug counseling and seminar programs.
He also plans to add a part-time drug
counselor who would counsel students
on drug problems specifically.

The Students Who Use Drugs

When asked why students here do
drugs, the two students who agreed to

‘talk with The Davidsonian said the main

reason is to escape pressures at David-
son. “It’s a defense mechanism to deal
with everyday problems. If you ask
someone why they get high, they'll say
‘Because it feels good.’ If you really
push them, they will say it’s because of

Dr. Charles King’s Seminar

(continued from page |)

broke down white rationalizations and
theories about racism. He asserted that,
while everyone is naturally predjudiced,
“only whites can be predjudiced because
they have the power. Blacks need
whites, but whites can ignore blacks.”
Thus, racism was defined as predjudice
carried into behavior.

The second part was King’s attempt
to make whites feel as blacks do. Sum-
mers commented that he “got a new
sense of how alone they feel.”

The illustrations and charts King
used showed that the culprit was not
white hatred, but the complacency and
inertia of white institutions. Housing,
employers, governments, and schools,
King said, are run by whites who give
preference to whites. People who enter
these institutions now have a greater al-
legience to them. “Racism is more an in-
stitutional practice than a personal at-
titude,” he said.

The institutions feed into one
another: family into schools, schools into
jobs, jobs into housing, and so on. All
demand standards which blacks have dif-

ficulty meeting. For instance, the very
high rate of black single parent house-
holds leads to instability in the home.
This lack of stability affects education,
which leads to inferior job opportunities
and housing.

Said King, “white people, just being
white, taking all the opportunities they
can, harm minorities. Because when you
advance, we automatically lose. Apply-
ing the same standards is_ in-
stitutionalized racism.”

The final hour attempted to get the
races communicating their feelings. Sev-
eral times the audience broke into small
discussion groups to promote real ex-
change of experiences. King showed
that, while black anger at whites was jus-
tified by practice, white fear of blacks
was based on ignorance and mispercep-
tion of what blacks want and age like. He
left the audience considerably educated
about the situation and gave them a final
directive: “the only way the system can
change is if the power_structure demands
it.” Whites have to change whites, he
said, for society to really change.

Election Rule Change

(continued from page !)

selot recommended that the council take
some action to avoid confusion this year,
but she was surprised by the decision.
“I’m worried about how the policy limits
freedom, but we’ve never discussed the
issue as a Council,” she ‘said. “In the
past, it has not been an issue, and no one
has complained about it.”

Dean of Students Will Terry felt that

Honor Council candidates should be al-

lowed to campaign. But he emphasized
the importance of the candidates’ integ-
rity over their popularity. “What makes a
good Honor Council member is deter-
mined by the quality of the person. The
way he or she is perceived by [his or her]
peers as an individual, rather than a stand
on any issue, is more important,” Terry
said.

roblems they have” They said many
Mifferent groups on campus do drugs,
and doing drugs is a way of gaining ac-
ceptance into a group. The groups, how-
ever, are not associated with any particu-
lar campus social group. “Every frater-
nity has its group of drug users,” they
said.

The persons in the group find support
among each other, and a member of a
group is very reluctant to point out that
another member has a drug problem.
Though each individual drug problem is
different and may be related to other
problems the person is having, the group
reinforces the problem. Each group on
campus, they said, may overlap with
others, but the persons in each one are in-
terested in a particular kind of high.

The groups that do cocaine have a lot
of money (cocaine costs about $100 per
gram) and enjoy fast and intense highs.
Those that use hallucinogens, like mus-
hrooms or LSD (one student said his
group of about 30 got in 150 hits for one
of their parties recently), enjoy the
spiritual or moody experience the drug
gives them.

“For most people,” the two students
said, “they come here already doing
drugs and Davidson makes them do
drugs a lot. There isn’t much physical ad-
diction here, but there are those who are
psychologically addicted to the mood
change the drug gives them. There are a
good number of people here who may
develop a serious problem.”

One Student’s Experience

“| loved to get high. Fwould go out of
my way to get high,” said one student
who left Davidson for drug treatment and
has since returned. “I would blow off re-
sponsibilities. My motivation was at
rock bottom. I started to worry about
physical abuse to my body. I wanted to
change my lifestyle, so I tried to regulate

12 exposure....

24 exposure.........
36 exposure.........
15 exposure disc...... 2.57

This coupon must accompany order.

ping Pressures

my use. That lasted as long as a snowball
in hell.”

He said he had a reluctance to admit
he had a problem. Once realizing his
problem, he decided to seek counseling
“for my own good.” His term at a drug
rehabilitation center was “‘the best thing
that has ever happened to me. I have a
new outlook on life and I’m really into
school now. I see a lot of people I care
about in the same situation I was in.”

Confronting A Drug Problem

Bob Giduz, a counselor at the Char-
lotte Drug Counseling Center, feels that
a significant number of students here feel
Davidson has a drug problem. Also, he
said many feel they don’t know how to
approach someone they know who has a
drug problem.

Giduz has conducted two drug semi-
nars here, which the Dean’s office has
sponsored. Asked to define a drug prob-
lem, Giduz said “I would tend to say
abuse 1s that somehow your life revolves
around using and obtaining the drug. Ar-
ranging the events of your day so that
there is time to get high is one example.

“To me that’s abuse; the drug 1s con-
trolling you. The reasons or excuses for
using drugs will break down at some
point resulting in a problem.”

On confronting someone about a
drug problem, Giduz said, “You need to
clarify what you want to do and what you
think you have a right to do.” Changing
the behavior of someone may be difficult
and may cause unfavorable conse-
quences in the short term, like the ending
of a personal relationship with a person. :

Giduz recommended several con-
frontation techniques that emphasized
assertive and effective methods in a
seminar on campus Wednesday night.
He suggested that before confronting a
person about a drug problem, one should
discuss the situation with a counselor or
someone else familiar with the situation.

DAVIDSON. NORTH CAROUNA 25636

