2

. (in rear of the Southem
Energy Buliding)

pa ann COuESES begin: Man, Noy, irate cc
““o—™CHristinds HOTGays begin: Fr

HAIR DESIGNERS

Friday, January 20, 1984/The Davidsonian

Mezzo Soprano To Perform

Mezzo-Soprano Diane Willis and pianist Joel Harrison will present a concert
of songs by Mozart, Brahms, Rossini, Fauré, and Rorem Jan. 22 at 8:15 p.m. in
Hodson Hall. .

Willis won the New York Concert Artist Guild Award and made her Avery
Fisher Conert Hall debut in 1981. She has performed with the Texas Opera
Theatre, the Santa Fe Opera Festival, the Chautauqua Opera, and the Boston
Symphony Orchestra at Tanglewood. She holds degrees from Florida Southern
College, Indiana University, and Yale University.

Harrison has served as a staff member of the Davidson College music depart-
ment since 1982. He is a frequent performer throughout the area, and holds de-
grees from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and from Indiana
University.

The concert is part of the Chamber Music Series sponsored by the College
Union Co-curricular Council and the Department of Music. There will be no
charge for admission.

New Post Office Opening Delayed ,

Because of the severe weather, the opening of Davidson's new post office
has been delayed indefinitely.

“We must have clear weather before progress can be made,” Postmaster,
John Fisher said. “The boxes are all laid out, but the roof, but the roof needs to be
put on. We don’t know when it will be ready.”

The new post office will be located behind the new Peregrine House, and the
College is planning to transform the old post office into a student store.

Fisher said that every effort would be made to give Davidson students and re-
sidents the same box number, but the new post office will not have has many
boxes, and some changes will be necessary.

Police Report Stolen Goods

Over $800 in cash and property has been reported stolen since Jan. 11, ac-
cording to campus police.

A car stereo worth $450 was taken from senior Burt Taylor’s car which was
parked across from Emanon. Entry was made into the car with a coat hanger,
police said.

A bicycle valued at $200 owned by freshman Caroline Vinson was stolen
from in front of Richardson Dorm. Police said the bicycle was not locked.

Police recovered a car Jan. 11 belonging to Kevin McDaris which was stolen
while parked on Patterson Court. Police believe the suspects in those thefts are
coming from Ridge Road (beside the golf course). The College plans to build a
gate at the Patterson Court entrance and close off the road at night.

In another incident $121 was stolen last | Friday from WDAV staff member
Anne Wright. According to reports, the money was taken from her purse in
WDAV’s studios in the basement of the Union.

Academic Calendar Approved

The Executive Committee has approved academic calendars for 1984-85
and 1985-86. The calendar for 1984-85 appears below:
Fall term: Courses end: Fri. Feb. 22
Orientation: Sat. Sept. 1 Reading Day: Sat. Feb. 23
Courses begin: Wed. Sept 5 Exams begin.: Mon. Feb. 25
Courses end: Mon. Nov. 12 Exams end: Thurs. Feb. 28
Reading Day: Tues. Nov. 13
Exams begin: Wed. Nov. 14
Exams end: Sat. Nov. 17

Spring term:

Courses begin: Mon. Mar. 11
Holiday (Good Friday): Fri. Apr. 5
Winter term: rp ourses end: Fri. May 17
Exams end: Wed | May 2 y
Commencement: Sun. May 26

Dec: ia"
Christmas Holidays end: Mon. Jan. 7

PERMANENT WAVE
1/2 OFF

NEW
STUDIO

237 Catawba Ave. HAIR CUT & STYLE

$5.00 off
(Male & Female)

Cornelius

Temporarily Closed
Will announce new location

rahe See he 3giny pat my / pee io: ee a JRE SG Spake Sie aconuce

EWS SUMMAR )

Kazee Predicts Reagan to Win in ’84

“I don’t see a very close election; I see Reagan winning rather handily,”
political science professor Tom Kazee said in a lecture Tuesday night in the
Morrison Room of the Union.

Kazee’s lecture, titled, “Gazing into the Crystal Ball,” was second in the fac-
ulty lecture series. Kazee examined three aspects of the 1984 elections: the race
for the Democratic nomination, the general election, and congressional elec-
tions.

Of the eight Democratic candidates that have announced their intention to
run, Kazee said that only two, Walter Mondale and John Glenn, are real conten-
ders; the rest are only hopefuls.

Kazee predicted two possible scenarios in the Democratic race: “the Mon-
dale Preempt” and “the Glenn Southern Exposure.” Since most primaries hap-
pen early this year, Mondale could knock out the other candidates before they
even get started. His campaign would pick up momentum and he would win eas-
ily. But if Glenn is able to make a reasonable showing in the early primaries,
then he may be able to catch Mondale on “Super Tuesday” (March 13). On this
day eleven states will hold primaries or caucuses. Included in these states are
Florida, Georgia, and Alabama, three states in which Glenn is stronger than
Mondale, according to Kazee.

Kazee predicted that Mondale will win the Democratic nomination, but he
noted that this victory would be ironic because public opinion polls have re-
vealed that Glenn would be a stronger candidate against Reagan.

Turning to the general election, Kazee evaluated President Reagan’s
strengths and weaknesses. Kazee said that he is strong on domestic issues, but
weak on foreign policy issues. But since voters usually care more about domes-
tic issues than foreign policy issues, Reagan should not be hurt by his weaknes-
ses. Kazee said that R eagan already has a solid bloc of 200-280 delegates; the
Democrats have much catching up to do.

As for congressional elections, Kazee predicted that the Republicans will
gain 5-10 seats in the House of Representatives, leaving them far short of a
majority. He predicted the Democrats will gain 2-3 seats in the Senate, including
North Carolina Senator Jesse Helms seat. He said that the Hunt-Helms race will
be close, but Helms’ liabilities, such as his outspokeness, make him vulnerable.

Visiting Scholar Phyllis Trible To Speak

As part of Davidson’s Visiting Scholar Series, Dr. Phyllis Trible, Baldwin
Professor of Sacred Literature at Union Theological Seminary, New York City,
will give two lectures Wednesday Jan. 25.

Trible, known as one of the nation’s leading Bible scholars will present her
first lecture, “Tamar: The Royal Rape of Wisdom” in Chambers 308 at 11 a.m.
The second, “Hagar: The Desolation of Rejection,” will be presented in the 900
Room at 3 p.m. Religion professor Max Polley said the lectures are a “feminist
interpretation of Biblical literature.”

Trible published a book titled God and the Rhetoric of Sexuality in 1978.
Polley described this book as having “earned her a reputation as a responsible
representative of the feminist movement.” Students of Humanities “may recog-
nize this book as a major source for Brian and O’ Major’s 10th Chapter, ‘Women
on the Three Cultures’ in their book In the Beginning.”

Her next book, Texts of Terror: Literary-Feminist Reading of Biblican Nar-
ratives, will be published in March. Her two lectures Wednesday originate from
material in this book.

Other publications include an article called ‘“Depatriarchalizing in Biblical
Interpretation.” This appeared in the March 1973 issue of Journal of the Ameri-
can Academy of Religion. Some of her works have been translated into German
and Japanese.

Her lecture tour has been extensive. Among others, she was part of the
Lyman Deecher Lectures at Yale Divinity School in 1982 and a Convocation
Lecturer at Eden Theological Seminary in 1978.

Trible attended Meredith Colle e in Raleigh, N.C. and graduated magna
i Teor giehe ovary: “or Neves font
1954-56. She wrote her PhD thesis at Union Seminary and Columbia University
in 1963.

Order in advance—
Wine & Beer by the case:
Cost plus 10%
Keg beer:

Cost plus 10%

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C
28036
892-7521

