10 Friday, April 6, 1984/The Davidsonian

The Locker Room

By STEVE BYERS

The national pastime is back. Billy
Packer, Hoya Paranoia, and shot
clocks are out. Joe Garagiola, the Phil-
lie Phanatic, and rain delays are in.
Spring training is over, and that young
phenom who looked so promising
three weeks ago somehow missed the
final cut and will open his season in
front of 5000 in Pawtucket, instead of
50,000 at Yankee Stadium.

In April the contenders and the pre-
tenders come out of the woodwork.
Every team boasts that it will still be
around when the weather turns cooler
and the leaves begin to fall. But, as
most of these teams will realize, “I€s a
long way to October.”

Major League Baseball has the
longest regular season — by far — of
any professional sport. This is a game
of endurance and consistency, not
momentum and luck. Sure, there are
hot streaks and there are slumps, but
over 162 games the cream is bound to
rise to the top.

You have your superstars, of
course, like Dale Murphy or Cal Rip-
ken, Jr., but baseball is designed so
that no one player can dominate as in

basketball. It must be a combination of
individual talents skillfully moulded
into a true team. Witness the Baltimore
Orioles of last year — two legitimate
all-stars surrounded by an assorted cast .
of no-names and never-will-be’s who
always seem to deliver when it
counted.

Another unique aspect of baseball
is its elite playoff structure, and I stress
elite. Only four teams receive the right
to play for the World Series. That’s
four out of 26. Compare that the the
NCAA basketball tournament or the
Stanley Cup Playoffs, both of which
severely limit the importance of the
regular season. In baseball the regular
season is everything. Even in the
playoffs and the World Series a team
must demonstrate its strength over five
or seven games, not the one-shot deal
of college basketball. As Jim Valvano
will attest, anybody can get lucky one
time, but to win time and again is the
real test.

Aside from all this, however,
baseball makes interesting reading.
The game today smacks of The Na-
tional Enquirer: Will Bowie Kuhn (ev-
erybody’s favorite lame duck commis-
sioner) agree to manage the Yankees

Baseball Replaces Basketball As National Pastime

when Yogi is fired in mid-August,
naming Bill Martin his third base
coach? Can anyone find some dirt on
Dale Murphy? Does Tommy Lasorda
know more people than Howard
Cosell? When will the Cubs be
mathematically eliminated — before
or after Pascual Perez starts complain-
ing to the warden about the post-game
meals?

And who is the least knowledge-
able (baseball wise) ownner, George
Steinbrenner or Ted Turner? And why
is the San Diego Chicken more popular
than Chief Noc-A-Homa?

There are two telltale signs which
foreshadow the dog days of summer.
You have memorized the statistics of
every player in the major leagues by
reading the box scores in the moming
paper like a religion. And you have
heard and read some outlandish quotes
about this season. Some of these:

“How can you enjoy a cocktail after
watching Steve Sax make 29 bad
throws?

—Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda

“If I go to the bench as a pinch-hitter,
this team must be a pennant conten-

Cubs first baseman Bill Buckner

“T don’t think there’s an outstanding
club in our division. That has to help
us.”

—Mets G. M. Frank Cashen

“The Phillies are good but not as good

as the Braves.”

— Braves pitcher Len Barker, who lost

a 5-0 decision on opening day to, you
guessed it, the Phillies

“The only thing that’s certain is that
they'll play the national anthem before
every game.”

—Dodger outfielder Rick Monday

But for the definitive statements on the
game, we turn to Yogi, Steve and Cal:

“In baseball, you don’t know noth-
ing.”

—Yankee manager Yogi Berra

— Phillies pitcher Steve Carlton

“It’s a very simple game — a ball, a bat

and a glove. Then humans get in-

volved and make it complicated.”
—Orioles coach Cal Ripken, Sr.

Ruggers Lose To Belmont; Survive Charlotte

By HUNTER GOURLEY

The Davidson College Rugby Foot-
ball Club opened its spring season two
weekends ago with its own brand of dou.
ble-header — Belmont Abbey on Satur-
day and Charlotte’s Old Originals on
Sunday.

Davidson was intent on avenging an
earlier pre-break tune-up match loss to
the ruggers of Belmont Abbey. While the
sun shone brightly, the wind blew favor-
ably, and °a fairly sustantial crowd
cheered the home. team-on, Abbey sti]!
managed a 21-0 advantage at the half.

The team realized during the brief in-
termission that it had two options: con-
cede the match and win the party; or re-
group then and there, and win the sec-
ond-half, possibly even the match.

Two key factors provided hope for a
Davidson second-half rally. First, there
were no half-time refreshments for either
side: water had been forgotten, or mis-
placed, and all available ice was cooling
down those distant kegs. Secondly, 40
minute halves were being played and
while this lengthy time was hurting
Davidson badly, it was positively killing
the heavier, unfit ragger-monks from the
Abbey. With any luck the one-two com-
bination of thirst (dehydration) and dura-
tion would effect the other team more
than it would Davidson.

The boys in black and red played an
inspired second half. Sophomore for-
ward Grifff Elder fielded a high kick fora
try and sophomore Wallace Goodman
booted the points after, the first of three
successful conversions for him that day.

Senior backfieldsman Jerry Grubba ran
well before passing to sophomore center-
back Chris Clett for four more points,
and freshman scrummer John Stanley,
was well-positioned for Davidson’s final
successful scoring drive.

Time ran out before a hand-in-scrum
penalty could be corrected and converted
into the game-winning try. But Abbey
was scoreless in that half for a final tally
of 21-18, and a near victory for David-
son.

A few fresh, unbruised players were

found for the match against Charlotte on
Sunday. The Doug Ammar-Ted Wright
connection filled in nicely for their less
able, more ailing teammates: they scored
three tries (four-pointers) between them.

Charlotte scored first early in the half
on a 45 hard burst up the middle before
Davidson had warmed up properly and
worked out all the kinks from Saturday’s
match. Scoring came more easily for
Davidson after Charlotte’s scare. Elder
scored a second time for the weekend off
a well-placed ball by Wright, and junior

Jim Brueggemann hit on two of four con-
version attempts leaving Davidson with a
20 point total for the match.

As a team Davidson played sound
rugby, looking better than they had all
fall. Good running by freshman Carroll
Overton and the effective hooking of
sophomore Tommy Cardwell enabled
Davidson to defeat Charlotte 20-9. Ex-
perienced play and superior knowledge
of the game from new arrivals Zack
Dovey and Tom Giles, proved valuable
additions to the club in both matches.

Lacrosse Loses Two Over Weekend

By CHRIS HOLDEN

After an impressive season-opening
victory against rival powerhouse N.C.
State, the Davidson lacrosse team
dropped a disappointing pair of home
contests last weekend.

Clemson, a well-seasoned team with
plenty of talent, left town Saturday witha
13—10 victory under their belts. The Cats
took the field Sunday with vengeance on
their minds, only to play a roller-coaster
game that Savannah won, also 13-10.
Savannah, a skilled team, won primarily
through experience; the Cats out-hustled
Savannah but fell prey to superior sticks.

Team Captain Jay Norman felt that
Davidson should have won both games.
‘We were a little down as a team on
Saturday; we never really got any
momentum going,” he said. “Face-offs
hurt us a great deal, and we plan to put
some work in this week along. those

lines. Even though we played poorly, we
still had an opportunity to win those
games. That’s encouraging in itself.”

In a Saturday night brain-trust, team
leaders met to devise a strategy that
might spark the team in a fresh direction
on Sunday. Davidson has traditionally
been a defense-oriented team, partially
out of neccessity — there is an absence of
any one great talent on the squad who can
force things to happen offensively. It was
decided on Saturday night that Norman,
who has played courageously in goal for
seven years, would trade his butterfly net
for a real stick and move to attack.

The idea was to spark the offense
with some fresh talent. attacker. Norman
did well, scoring three goals and several
assists. His replacement in_ goal,
freshman Michael Holt, had a marvelous

game and proved that his capability will -

be tapped in the next three years.

The strategy worked to a certain de-
gree. Junior Thomas Evans tallied sev-
eral goals on the weekend and remains a
standout. Saturday he actually shot a ball
with such force that it went right through

‘the goalie’s stick and carried into the

goal. Asked where he found such super-
human power, Evans replied “It’s my
Sampsonesque beard. I may never shave
it off.”

Particularly devasting this year is the
loss of junior defensive specialist Ted
Gamer, but the defensive unit has man-
aged to hold its own. Juniors Brooks
Babcock and John McColl are maturing
into fine players and proving to be a valu-
able asset.

This weekend the Cats make a two-
game swing south to take on Auburn and
Georgia. Determination is high, and the
stickmen hope to return with a winning
record (they are currently 1-2).
