8 Friday, March 16, 1984/The Davidsonian

Irish Poet Captures Childhood Memories Of Love

By BRIAN BUTLER

Who knows why, but a pretty famous poet named
Paul Muldoon, who belongs in Ireland (he’s from Bel-
fast) read from his poetry in the Morrison room Tuesday
night. The room was too hot for the nearly 100 people
who attended, and its garishly bright lighting, combined
with the heat, created a rigid atmosphere not unlike that
of a Baptist church in summer. And in this room many
nodded, some sat as if entranced, dozens thought about
dinner, and a few drifted off while the Irish syllables
baubled, bounced, and hung in midair.

“Why is this man here?” some might ask. He has
published four volumes of poetry (New Weather, Mules,
Why Brownlee Left, and Quoof), the first by Faber in
1973 when he was but 21 years old. He is considered the
center of anew, young group of poets, the first to emerge
from Ireland since the Age of Yeats, a group which
founded The Honest Ulsterman in 1968 and printed in it
the poems of the teenage Muldoon. By now (he is in his
thirties, though he looks like a Davidson bohemian),
Muldoon’s poems have appeared in Chicago Review,
DAM (Holland), Digraphe (France), Literary Review,
London Review of Books, New Irish Writing, New
Statesman, Pequod, The Times Literary Supplement,
and about everywhere else. England's Poetry Book So-
ciety named his most recent volume, Quoof, which was
published in American by Wake Forest University
Press, their Autumn Choice.

At first thought, Muldoon’s poetry seems cast in the
mold of the clear imagism of H.D. and W.C. Williams:
the poems’ surfaces appear to “rool” lightly through
childhood memories, natural phenomena, and love-
thought type pictures all realistically depicted through
the detail, the image standing but for itself. In “The
Right Arm,” for instance, one of the first poems Mul-
doon read, the poet remembers a shop his father kept in
the small town of Eglish, a shop which, as Muldoon
explained, carried a little bit of everything, including
several types of candy more often stolen by children than

sold to the store’s weekly customer. The poem lists the
store’s products, describing the three-year-old poet's
greedy arm “plunged . . . into the sweet-jar / for the last
bit of clove-rock” and seeming to be the mere pictorial
memorial it portends to be. But, typically of Muldoon,
the last line or phrase transforms all that has formerly
transpired from image to parallel symbol, and from past
remembered to some vaguely timeless state of knowing
all times at once: “The Eglish sky was its own stained-
glass vault / and my right arm was sleeved in glass / that
has yet to shatter.”

UOUAAQ j}O1NeD

Paul Muldoon reads his verse

This movement from apparent simplicity to
metaphysical prolixity is also common to Muldoon’s
poems. Very often one finds initial bearings easy to
reach, subsequent steps a bit harder to take, and final
leaps not clarifying but startling, yet still sounding too
meaningful to ignore.

Sometimes this indirect closing vagueness can be
used for a direct, though time-delayed effect. “Truce”
concerns an imaginary (obviously) make-up between the
great fueding powers of the world. “It begins with one or
two soldiers,” says the poet, and “All stop when one

stops.” Soldiers are pictured sharing cigarettes and sec-
rets. An old German Song is “passed round.” The
poem’s comment solidifies in a single line, which calls
the soldiers “Friday night lovers exchanging names and
addresses.” The several layers of import to be found here
emerge a step at a time. One can almost hear the audi-
ence’s response “dropping slow” through several stages
of recognition. War is cheap .

Living in Belfast must make one aware of violence:
Muldoon’s poems are filled with lurking violence ap-
pearing in connection with the most unexpected things.
For him, it seems, violence comes as naturally to men as
sex, Sleep, and the building of superhighways. It has
shown itself through the ages to be as inextricable from
the life force, from vitality, as to be almost beautiful it-
self. “The Sightseers,” a poem about the Muldoon fam-
ily’s Sunday afternoon drives, blends beauty and vio-
lence so that they are almost indistinguishable. The
poem tells that on this special Sunday, the family and
“Uncle Pat” were not to “visit some graveyard — one
died of shingles, / one of fever, another’s knees turned to
jelly — / but the brand-new roundabout . . . .” A
roundabout is what we would call a traffic circle. As the
family drives,

Uncle Pat was telling us how the B-Specials

Had stopped him one hight somewhere near Ballygaw-
ley

and smashed his bicycle

and made him sing the Sash and curse the Pope of
Rome.

They held a pistol so hard against his forehead
there was still the mark of an O when he got home.

After Muldoon read this line, no one in that ugly
Morrison Room made a noise.

If you look inside a theater after the credits have
passed, there will be two or three people left seated, star-
ing at the blank screen. These people are Paul Mul-
doon’s audience.

Hitchcock’s Vertigo: Great Director’s Greatest Film

By MATT MORRIS

By the strictest definition, a mystery is a piece of fic-
tion dealing with profound and inexplicable events or a
character's qualities. Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo, now
playing at Southpark in Charlotte, certainly fulfills all
these parameters, but one by one.

The first half of the film solidly captures all the in-
gredients that make for profound and inexplicabe eve-
nts. James Stewart, a San Francisco detective plagued
by the title’s height-fearing ailment, is hired to follow a
woman who seems to be haunted by a long-dead
nineteenth century aristocrat. Simple enough, and the
viewer is treated to dizzying shots of Stewart as he
shadows co-star Kim Novak through lush California
scenery.

This is just the beginning, however; a red herring, a

joke on the audience. By the time The End appears,

much more will have transpired, not only in the plot

Kim Novak . . .

(childishly ludicrous), but in the eccentric, obsessive
world called human nature. Vertigo is a complete mys-
tery, for while what goes on in the physical world is
often inexplicable, what really provokes (and frightens)
is the inner sentiment of all men which Hitchcock’s
probing camera reveals.

Mind you, the characters in Vertigo are not “real.”
Like the incredibly phony sets, Stewart, Novak and Bar-
bara Bel Geddes are all portraying caricatures. In fact the
movie opens with the literal construction of an entity —
the camera zooms in to kiss an enormous set of lips, cuts
to a closeup of a pair of eyes, then microscopically ex-
plores a single eye iteself. It enters the retina, and rum-
mages around in the window of the soul. Yet the viewer
never finds out who these body parts belong to — there is
never a complete picture to reveal a gender, identity, or
anything.

Similarly, the caricatures in Vertigo are never com-
pletely understood. Stewart’s emotions are as unpredict-
able as everything else in this film. It is impossible to get
a complete picture of any character. Instead, as the open-
ing montage symbolizes, the audience is treated to a
series of sideways glances which seem close, but in fact
are ambiguous.

Hitchcock was often criticized for being too mechan-
ical with his actors and afraid to show emotion in his
works. If Vertigo was directed by a machine-man, then I
recommend this approach. He has elicited complex,
rough, emotional performances from everyone in the
film. Namby-pamby Stewart gives the peformance of
his career showing a sane man going nuts. Through the
piercing contrasts of photographer Robert Burks,

Stewart’s eyes turn liquid red, filled with Satanic pas-
sions. Novak’s trance-like acting is so perfect, her lithe
beauty so goddess-like (she rises from the San Francisco
bay at one point, reminiscent of a wet Diana), that you’ll
forget any visions of Grace Kelly, who was originally
slated for the role.

The script is ridiculous, though. To reveal too much
would spoil a great movie. The projected backgrounds
are obviuous, and the cardboard sets look like
cardboard, but Vertigo’s tone demands this stilted style.
Vertigo is a fantasy in which nothing is real. Even time
itself, that most concrete convention in film is contorted
and twisted until it makes no sense. Vertigo, a great di-
rector’s greatest film, broke new ground in 1958 because
it asked the viewer to accept film as an abstract. Like any
other art (music, painting, sex), Vertigo is a masterpiece
because though its format is starkly representational, the
emotions are what count, and they ring true.

.Or Kim Novak? _
