Friday, October 26, 1984/The Davidsonian 13

OPINIONS

Open Hearing Reveals Council’s Shortcomings _

David McGee

Last week’s open honor hearing did not end with the
acquital of sophomore Jeff Kusch. Some fundamental
questions remain that concern Honor Council procedure
and how Dean of Students Will Terry and the student
soliciters justified signing charges against Kusch.

Why did the Council hear a case four months after
the alleged violation occured? Should the case have ever
come to a hearing in the first place? Why did the defense
advisors and student soliciters rely so much on hearsay
evidence to support their cases? And, probably the most
pertinent, what changes are needed in the procedure the
Council follows in preparing for and hearing a case? _

I have answers to these questions, but they are by no
means the only ones. Fortunately, I sense an openness
among Dean Terry and the Honor Council to suggestions
or complaints from those in the community. Suggestions
and complaints in this case only become valid when they
are organized, written, and presented to the authorities
who can take suitable action, namely the Student Con-
duct Council, which sets policy for the Honor Council.

Before addressing these questions though, I want to
explore how the Honor Council conducts its business,
which last week's hearing revealed, and what I think the
Council's relationship to the community ought to be.

Most would agree that open challenges to the Honor
Council's authority can improve how the Council oper-
ates among its constituency. I assert, and few would dis-
agree, that the reason why anyone has raised questions
about the Honor Council rests on the fact that the ac-
cused student in last week’s hearing chose to have an
open hearing.

Should the case have ever
come to a hearing in the first
place? . . . And, probably the
most pertinent, what changes
are needed in the procedure the
Council follows in preparing
for and hearing a case?

a A EE ET BE

Had the hearing been closed to the public, and as-
suming the Council would have reached the same verdict
(a speculative assumption, I might add), the only thing
we would have heard about the hearing would have been
a short announcement in The Davidsonian from the
Dean’s office stating something similar to: “The Honor
Council heard one plagiarism case last term. The student
was found innocent.”

No one would have asked any questions.

This observation supports an argument for having
open honor hearings. In theory, as the College's Code of
Disciplinary Procedure states, all hearings are open; the
accused has a right to a closed hearing. However, since
the last open hearing before last week was held in Feb-
ruary 1982, anyone who believes that honor hearings are
open in practice would also believe that the sun always
shines.

- There exists, I think, one important objection to hav-
ing open hearings. According to Dean Terry, a high per-
centage of those who leave Davidson as a result of an
honor violation complete their education here after their
sanction is over. How would open hearings affect the de-
cision of banished students to return to Davidson, if the
events of a student’s hearing would be public knowl-
edge?

This objection ultimately questions how the commu-
nity here would deal with information it would gain from
open honor hearings. Gossip, unfavorable publicity, or
other such injury to reputation might result from open
honor hearings. Since the Council expects everyone to
take the Honor Code seriously, I believe students would
view the outcomes of honor hearings in a mature way,

2 Ee On ee ee - ee eee GS

Pag A> hat) .\ a
ta A A, ea en cr,
a SP 000 eee. WS Ge VE
Wo) — wn GA © he
cee CUR *. EU WS Vn \ a eee;
SE. MD re Ue. © ee ee No
ee DE NS Sieg \ we |
PY; ©). w —7a ee we
CED “i. hee A A, ae. W's |
Ee Oo

\ ¢ OX
Wo.) Ree
\ LAY ww NNN We

Wa © teen eee WE, WE GE ee. ee
EC WE GG WE ©

WR “E ->\ eee GE WE 8 *

—_ VAY Ae ns
SEA oy \ DW Va
a... ©. Ge 0 es en

ap Wa. ? eh Ph a “A

without vengeance. Those who disagree with this asser-
tion may be challenging, in the same breath, whether
Davidson should have an honor code at all. Why should
Davidson have an honor code if no one would respect,
with a mature acceptance, the results of the honor code’s
enforcement?

Doubtless, the open hearing benefited the honor sys-
tem as a whole because it allowed the community to wit-
ness what it usually only hears about second hand. The
Honor Council increasedits creditibility by showing that
it, in general, pursues cases fairly within the limits of its
granted powers. If any need to change the way the Coun-
cil hears and decides cases exists, then that change must
take place within the Code of Disciplinary Procedure.

It would not be fair to generalize this hearing as rep-
resentative of all hearings, but I feel that problems exist
in how the solicitors and the Dean bring charges against
a student.

Dean Terry and the student solicitors, seniors Mike
Mauzé, Mark Batten, and Mike Tantillo, were responsi-
ble for charging Jeff Kusch with plagiarism. Their duty
calls for them to investigate complaints from professorss
of possible honor violations, and in this case the sol-
icitors and the Dean believed enough evidence existed to
hold a hearing.

I think the solicitors violated the spirit of Kush’s
rights as a student when they questioned him without his
defense advisors present before they had signed charges
against him.

summer months. The solicitors felt that not to file
charges against Kusch would have judged him innocent.
This decision of guilt or innocence, they believed, be-
longed to the Honor Council. Some may interpret this
decision as a fair one, but I believe it violated the notion
of presumed innocence. If the solicitors and the Dean de-
cide to sign charges against a student, then they ought to
have a valid basis for the charges, not just promising
speculation. The solicitors and the Dean signed the
charges without knowing whether or not Kusch could
produce a rough draft of his paper, which the defense ad-
visors later introduced as evidence to support Kusch's
innocence.

What do I mean by a valid basis? In this case, unless
the solicitors could cite a specific source that the accused
plagiarized (which they did not do), then there was no
reason to have a hearing. What evidence did the sol-
icitors have? They based their case almost solely on the
opinions of English Professor John Engell and
Economics Professor Clark Ross, who both doubted
whether Kusch could have written the paper he turned
in. No matter how reputable the professors” statements,
the Council could only accept Engell’s testimony and
Ross’s testimony (via a letter he wrote which Mauzé
paraphrased), as opinion.

Presenting professional opinion as evidence has a
weakness because the defense can usually find opposite
opinions. Ross's opinion that only a top economics stu-
dent could have written the paper conflicted) with
economics Professor Peter Hess's opinion, introduced
by defense advisor Chris Blake, that the paper was a
poor treatment of economic theory. Engell’s claim that
Kusch plagiarized the paper was not supported by Ven-
turelli, who testified that he doubted that) Kusch
plagiarized the paper.

Of course, finding a specific source that the accused
had plagiarized may have been an overwhelming burden
for the solicitors. But without evidence that had sub-
stance beyond speculative opinion, there existed little
reason to have a hearing. The Dean's and the solicitors’
job requires subjective evaluation of the evidence they
find, and often the decision tc have a hearing or not be-
comes a careful choice. It appears in this case that the
Dean and the solicitors justified signing charges think-
ing, “Maybe he’s guilty; let's have a hearing and find
out.”

I offer the following suggestions to improve our jus-
tice system on campus. Introducing more openness into
the Honor Council's procedure would enhance both the
accountability of the Council and the Dean and the op-
portunity for constructive criticism of the entire process
Not only should the community know what decisions the
Council makes, but also the reasons for those decisions.
The Dean and the solicitors should.-have a maximum 30-
day period, without exception, to sign charges resulting
from a complaint that a student has allegedly committed
an honor violation. The use of hearsay evidence (the pre-
sentation of what someone else has said as evidence)
should be curtailed or not even allowed in honor hear-
ings because of its speculative nature and the impossibi!

The Dean’s and the solicitors’ job requires subjective evaluation
of the evidence they find, and often the decision to have a hear-
ing or not becomes a careful choice. It appears in this case that
the Dean and the solicitors justified signing charges thinking,
‘Maybe he’s guilty; let’s have a hearing and find out.”

(Ca SE IGS GHA A RH AAI HaCaT can TOR TB ee SY

In addition, they made a serious error in waiting
three months to sign charges against Kusch. The hearing
was delayed another four weeks at the request of the de-
fense, thus putting a total of four months time between
sociology Professor Peter Venturelli’s report of a poten-
tial violation and the official charge. The Code of Dis-
ciplinary Procedure allows for a maximum of 10 days for
charges to be signed after a complaint, but the Dean may
include vacations or school breaks in the period allowed
to sign charges of an honor violation.

Though they had every right to do so, the delay was
unnecessary; no significant evidence emerged during the

ity of cross-examining such evidence.

Last week's open hearing has uncovered a shroud of
mystery about the Honor Council that has for a long ime
silenced its shortcomings and problems. | urge everyone
to pursue in a constructive manner what they think
should be changed about the Honor Council. We can
only achieve a more perfect system of justice if we aspire

to have one

McGee is a senior economics major and is Executive
editor of The Davidsonian
