Friday, April 6, 1984/The Davidsonian 15

Council Members Respond To Editorial

Bobby Silver, Bill
Satterwhite, Rob Spaugh,
and Rob Bradford

As members of the Davidson College Honor Coun-
cil, we were very concerned about last week’s Davidso-
nian editorial entitled “Honor” regarding deficiencies in
Davidson's Honor System. We would like to answer
some of the criticisms expressed in this editorial.

1. Campaigning Process. Last year, those in charge
of campus elections (the Honor Council is not in charge
of sponsoring its own elections by the way), decided that
flyers and door-to-door campaigning served no purpose
in Honor Council elections. No Council member can
have a platform since he or she cannot make changes in
Honor Council procedures. Such changes are made by
the Student Conduct Council, not the Honor Council.
Therefore, what would be the basis of acandidate’s cam-
paign? A candidate can solely claim, “Vote for me. ?!'m
responsible and have the integrity to judge the accused in
a mature manner.”

Instead of allowing two dozen flyers with this
nauseating phrase to be slipped under your door, now a
list of candidates is distributed to the student body to
publicize who is running. Since each candidate must be
certified as eligible for election by passing a screening
interview, students can assume that all candidates view
the position seriously and are familiar with the responsi-
bilities of the office. Students should vote for classmates
of strong character and sound judgement, qualities
which campaign slogans and flyers cannot adequately
convey.

Furthermore, The Davidsonian seemed to think that
if campaign slogans and flyers were allowed that “all
students would know all candidates equally well.” This
is a very naive assumption, for it is impossible for all
voters to know all candidates equally well in any elec-
tion. Admittedly, campaigning does hold merit in elec-
tions where issues and innovative ideas are the focus.
However, as explained before, this is not the focus of
Honor Council elections. Students should select Honor
Council members whom they feel are conscientious and
insightful. These qualities are far more essential to un-
derstanding and deciding the fate of fellow students,
than creativity and initiative. We feel that such qualities

are best expressed in day-to-day living and not in a one
week campaign. It is possible to foo! anybody through
an effective campaign, but nobody is fooled by the way
one lives his life day-by-day.

2. Accountability. The editors suggested that only
by making trial information public could one gauge
whether a Council member is fulfilling his or her obliga-
tions. We contend that only by sifting through every
piece of evidence and testimony could one hope to judge
the council's maturity in a decision. Never could one
hope to judge the effectiveness of any individual mem-
ber of the Council, just as it is impossible to judge the
maturity of individual jurors in the American legal sys-
tem.

It is important to note that, contrary to what most stu-
dents think, all Honor Council hearings are open to the

Too often, assumptions are
made about the Honor System
without getting the full story,
resulting in harmful

misconceptions

public until requested closed by the accused individual.
The decision to close a trial is made be the defendant, not
by the Council. Therefore, there is no attempt by Coun-
cil members to limit information and decrease their ac-
countability, only to protect the rights of the accused.
The belief that candidates should stand for re-elec-
tion would only add political motives to a process that
should be de-politicized. Decisions made by an Honor
Council member should be based solely upon the facts of
the case at hand and not on perceived repercussions of
the decision. Also, due to the complexity of Honor
Council procedures and-precedents that certain trials set,
carry-over of Honor Council members is necessary to
provide consistency of justice. Having a completely new
council elected every year would be highly inefficient
and unpredictable. Such a roller-coaster honor system

would be self-destructing.

3, Accessibility. The editorial claimed that Council
members are not accessible to students. We disagree.
Honor Council members are leaders in countless other
capacities on campus — in the Union, athletics, Y-
visible students on campus. The problem is not a matter
of accessibility, but of whether or not students are wil-
ling to take advantage of this availability to approach
Honor Council members and discuss issues which con-
cern them. Too often, assumptions are made about the
Honor System without getting the full story, resulting in
rumors and harmful misconceptions. For example, in
this editorial, the editors suggested that all Honor Coun-
cil proceedings be public. However with a little initiative
and research they would have discovered that all Honor
Council proceedings are public until requested closed by
the accused.

Secondly, the council members sponsor an annual
honor week which discusses the strengths and weaknes-
ses Of our current system. Throughout this week, mem-
bers man an honor council booth and answer questions
from interested students. Certainly this can raise no
questions of their accessibility. We believe that Honor
Council members are just as accessible as other campus
elected officers. We are open to discussion. We are more
than willing to clear up any misconceptions if students
will only seek us out before jumping to ill-founded con-
clusions.

4. Apathy. The scariest contention made in the edito-
rial was that students should not vote in Honor Council
elections, that they should be apathetic. The Honor Sys-
tem is a unique and positive element of Davidson Col-
legelife, but it can continue only if the student body sup-
ports it. This includes not only a willingness to turn in
suspected violators but to take the election of Honor
Council members seriously. By advocating apathy with
regard to the election process, The Davidsonian is sup-
porting the undermining of one of the most important as-
pects of the Davidson College experience. This is not a
responsible stand by the official publication of the Col-
lege.

Silver, a senior psychology major from Charlotte, NC,

is Chairman of the Honor Council. Satterwhite, a senior
History major from Winston-Salem, NC, is Student Sol-

icitor for the Honor Council. Spaugh, a senior history.
major from Winston-Salem, and Bradford, a sophomore
history major from Windmermere, FL, are members of
the Honor Council

ported on the spot.) »

So just what is the rést of the picture?
We'll give you two examples. On Sep-
tember 31, 1983, eleven Korean univer-
sity students were sentenced to prison
terms ranging from one to one and a half
years for their involvement in campus
demonstrations and the distribution of
anti-government fliers. Many of these
demonstrations are as mild as when a
group of students joins hands and sings a
hymn on the campus grounds. Violence,
if any, has always been incited by gov-
erment-paid student plants and the
police, who attack the students with tear
gas, clubs, and armored trucks.

Our second example: on the eve of
Ronald Reagan’s visit to Korea last
November, over 1000 Koreans (stu-
dents, professors, ministers, labor or-
ganizers) were put under house arrest for
the duration of his visit. Why? The gov-
ernment wanted, as much as possible, to
keep from Reagan and the Westem press
the stories of banned politicians, the hor-
rendous labor conditions, the govern-
ment surveillance, the student demon-

strations.

So what conclusions can we draw
from these disturbing incidents? First,
Korea is far from the democratic model
we hear about; its politicians systemati-
cally use oppression to maintain control.
Second, U.S. policy toward Korea des-
erves serious re-evaluation, if human
rights should play any part in our foreign
policy. (How is Korea different from the
Philippines?) Third, we urge you to join
or help Amnesty International or some
other human rights organization. The
Korean students are our brothers and sis-
ters; while they suffer we tend to put our
social concern into philosophical
abstractions. Fourth, we hope that you,
as Davidson students, will not take for
granted the tremendous freedom of ex-
pression which you are able to enjoy.

Fred Broadwell ’83
Jeff Jordan '83

Editor's note: Broadwell and Jordan are
currently serving as Volunteers in Mis-
sion for a two-year term as educational/
administrative missionaries at the Pre-

sbyterian Theological Seminary in

Seoul, Korea.

Literary Arts

To the Editors:

Since there is only one creative writ-
ing course here, but many inspired and
creative writers and readers, we are hav-
ing an organizational meeting this Mon-
day, April 9 at 10:00 at the center. We
welcome anyone interested in workshops
or discussions to attend.

The Literary Arts Committee

Candids

To the Editors:

Many seniors have expressed an in-
terest in having their candids for the year-
book returned to them after the book has
been printed. In order for us to do this,
we need their help. The pictures will not
be returned to Davidson from the printer
until next fall, at which time there will be

a different editor of Quips and Cranks.
The new editor may not be able to deal
with this situation unless we plan for it
now. .
If you would like your candid re-
turned to you next fall, please leave an
appropriate sized envelope, stamped and
self-addressed with the Quips and
Cranks office (upstairs from the Morri-
son Room in the Union or in the Quips
and Cranks box in the mailroom of
Chambers. Please do this by April 30,
1984.

The Quips and Cranks staff

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from our readers. We require that let-
ters be signed and include the author’s
address and phone number. All letters

must be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tues-
day. We reserve the right to edit letters

for length and clarity. The Davidso-
nian does not in any way endorse the
opinions expressed in the letters it
prints.
