Friday, April 6, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

Film Noir Atmosphere Key To The Big Sleep

By CRAIG DETWEILER

The Big Sleep (1946): Directed by How-
ard Hawks. Starring Humphrey Bogart,
Lauren Bacall, Dorothy Malone, Elisha
Cook, Jr. ****

Corruption, greed, scandal, dark-
ness, and cynicism dominate the post-
Watergate sensibilities of most Ameri-
cans. From a desire to be gritty, street-
wise, and generally tough, modern
American males identify with the grit-
tiest, wisest tough guy of ’em all, Hum-
phrey Bogart.

As Phillip Marlowe in The Big Sleep,
provides the insightful detection neces-
sary to penetrate a dark, dreary, world.
In the film noir movement, The Big Sleep
exists as a study in tone, atmosphere, and
psychology rather than as a study in story
line.

As aromanticized vision of film noir,
The Big Sleep dramatizes the pervasive
distrust and disorder which characterizes
the modern world. Film noir, literally
“black film,” arose as a response to
World War II. During the post-war
period of doubt and depression, it ex-
pressed the darkness that covered Ameri-
can emotions. A distressing acknowl-
edgement of the evil in human nature re-

Bogey and Bacall in a scene from The Big Sleep

sulted in films about vice, greed, and
corruption. Heroes in this black vision
could not be squeaky-clean patriots, but
tough, knowing investigators who per-
ceived the human condition.

Film noir found its heroes in the hard-
boiled detectives of °30s_ literature.

Taken from a Raymond Chandler novel,
The Big Sleep exhibits the bleak atmos-
phere of the paperback thrillers. Key in-
gredients like blackmail, murder, and a
promiscuous daughter are all present.

Director Howard Hawks understood
that The Big Sleep could not be a cold,
calculated murder-mystery. With help
from William Faulkner on __ the
screenplay, Hawks created the stark Los
Angeles night upon which Phillip Mar-
lowe thrives. The confused, indeciphera-
ble plot should concern the viewer, at-
mosphere, rather than story, is the thing.

Given a consistent vision and mood,
the right performers must be chosen to
inhabit this bristling creation. Bogart’s
screen persona seems perfect for the
Marlowe character. In portraying a sea-
soned, bleary-eyed private detective,

plays Bogart. Raymond Chandler under-
stood what makes Bogart the quintessen-
tial private eye. He observed, “Bogart is
so much better than any other tough-guy
actor. [He] can be tough without a gun.
Also he has a sense of humor that con-
tains that grating undertone of con-
tempt.”

Credit for Bogart’s intense perfor-
mance must also be given to his co-star
and wife, Lauren Becall. After debuting
together in To Have and Have Not,
Bogey and Baby approached The Big
Sleep as love-struck newlyweds. Their
fresh, off-camera romance leaps off the
screen during their acting scenes to-
gether. Their sizzling dialogue and sex-
ual presence charges the film with an un-
deniable energy. The strong supporting
cast of quirky, eccentric characters also
contributes to the weighty atmosphere.
In this crisp film environment, the per-
fect lean, lively roles are created.

While developed within the con-
straints of the ’40s studio system, The
Big Sleep displays personal artistic vi-
sion. By smoothing the rough, film noir
edges, the studio also makes a scintillat-
ing film into accessible entertainment.
Approach The Big Sleep as a Classic
movie that will confound and enthrall.
Don’t worry about plot confusion and in-
consistencies. Allow its cynical tone,
acting, and mood to jibe with the post-
Watergate suspicion that permeates us

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin” bring
- along this money-savin’ coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in

t combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours 1

only at participating Hardee's Restaurants ' \ 4 9

through May 31, 1984.

a,€ 1983, Hardee's Food Systems. Inc. :
Be SS Be EG] aa et ie ite Ee

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR
FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79 — |

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon no good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
participating Hardee's Restaurants through |

May 31, 1984. | ‘ : tf
c 1983, Hardee's Food Systems. inc eet r

Bogart does not appear to act. He simply © all.

DO IT NOW!

Davidson Students Do

Some do it forthe$...

Some for the prestiege...

Some for the fun...

Some for the best work-study
job oncampus... —

Some for increased insight

into Humes...

Become A WDAV
Announcer

Train now for 1984—85

For audition appointment, call:

JOHN CLARK
WDAV RADIO

College Union
892-2000, ext. 131

