10 Wednesday, December 12, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor

Kevin Horan, Business Manager
John Gathings, Production Manager

Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Circulation Manager

Drug Policy

For the second time since the administration began to perceive a drug
problem on campus, all the members of a dormitory have received letters
informing them — if not warning them — of complaints about drug
abuse. The first letter sent to fourth Sentelle last spring, came as a warn-
ing from the Dean’s office. The most recent letter, sent from the Housing
office to first Sentelle last week, attempted to forstall official action.

This plan of attack against a drug problem is easy. It allows the ad-
ministration to deal rather anonymously with violators. It eliminates the
need to charge individuals with Code of Responsibility violations. And,
it deals with the smaller problems — the relationships between drug
users and non-drug users in the dorms and the like. But it makes exam-
ples of the noisiest halls for the rest of the campus to read about, or hear
about through the rumor mill. .

Furthermore, this unwritten policy also tramples the rights of the in-
dividuals on the halls, and fails to address the real problems.

Warning a hall about drug use ignores the fact that some — perhaps
most — hall members may not use drugs. An important part of David-
son’s Code of Responsibility holds that no student is guilty until proven
so. Any enforced hall visit with Campbell Perry, the drug counselor, im-
plies that everyone on the hall needs to be there.

Drug problems are best dealt with privately, on an individual basis.
This week’s action by the Housing office clearly inconvenienced some
and gave a misleading impression of first Sentelle, which not all the resi-
dents on that hall deserve.

Discipline is one thing; therapy for possible drug problems is
another. The College ought to keep the two straight.

The Report

The report of the Task Force on Racial/Ethnic concerns is a land-
mark. Davidson has never completed a study quite like it, especially con-
cerning the livelihood of blacks and other minorities here. Though 77
pages may seem intimidating, the report is well worth everyone’s time.

It says things that have needed saying for a long time. For example,
the report states in one section: “Most students find the town of Davidson
to be friendly and open to their presence. Black students frequently have
a different experience.”

Doubtless, the committee had in mind the incidents of town police
officers asking black students for their I1.D.s and the controversy sur-

rounding the Griffith Street Project, which is run by a group of College
alumni who are buying property along Griffith Street to eliminate an “un-
sightly” approach to Davidson College.

The report’s last page reads “Appendex 18 Reactions of Community
(to be added).” Certainly this report, which will guide future policy re-
garding minorities, depends on alumni, faculty, and student response.

We urge everyone to study the report (including the information on

Ross Holt, Editor

file in the library) so that the forums the task force will hold Jan. 9 and 10

will be as meaningful as possible.

The Task Force has worked hard, and all the members deserve our
thanks. Their efforts show the commitment to improving minority stu-
dents’ experience at Davidson is high.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson,
NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions arti-
cles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian.
Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising
rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff; Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor, Ginger Broaddus, Richard Cloudt, Andrea Died-
rich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Tom Schilling, Chandon Sinlia, LeéWhite, Allison Wills,
Ted Wilson, Chris Hughes, Jill Boyette
Arts and Entertainment Staff: Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Stephen Mank, Ann Meador
Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams

« Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley
Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, assistant photography editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill
Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Kevin Horan, Wartiner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Brooke Knight, Pauline Rhodes. Compositors: Bobby Downie, Mitch Hall,
Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide,

-— Wha’d ya
| think I am—

Letters

Race Report

To the Editors:

After reading the “Report of the Task
Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns” | felt
like we really could allay racial tensions
at Davidson and begin to cultivate a pride
in our diversity. The report unveils an ex-
citing array of ways in which to deal with
existing problems. Many of the sugges-
tions are mere sketches, with details to be
worked out later. Others lack only or-
ganization and an Okay.

One such suggestion, the Task
Force’s proposal to bring the number of
black students and black faculty up to ac-
ceptable levels forms a logical and fun-
damental first step. However, the Col-

lege must not allow ambition in fulfilling.

these goals to overshadow its obligation
“to foster and maintain an academic, re-
sidential, social, and spiritual commun-
tiy supportive of and responsive to per-
sons of all racial/ethnic heritages.” If we
adopt the proposal of Project 87, which
demands “at least one hundred Black stu-
dents enrolled” and “at least ten Ameri-
can Black professors” by 1987, then we
have an attractive goal but a very danger-
ous timetable.

Naturally, Davidson will seek quan-
tity and quality when it begins to expand
its minority base, but tight time con-
straints tend to foster compromise. The
report explains the national shortage of
black Ph.D.’s and emphasizes the high
competition for top academic black stu-
dents. It suggests a number of long-term
solutions to the latter problem, but any
attempt to rapidly hire nine black profes-
sors could be disastrous. As the report
shows, the market is not glutted. While
we may as well try to reach the goal in
three to five years, we must not put this
schedule above common sense. We do
not want to grant tenure for the wrong
reasons.

I suggest we set qualitative goals be-
fore quantitative goals when we deal
with minority expansion. Certainly we

want to accomplish this in a reasonable
number of years, even within a definite
framework. To allow opportunity for
trial and error (especially with profes-
sors) ten years might be more realisitc.
And even that should not be an inflexible
limit if circumstances warrant an exten-
sion.

I have the greatest enthusiasm for the
program. The effort and money it re-
quires will benefit the integrity of David-
son by demonstrating that it is a responsi-
ble school of the 80s. But let us proceed
cautiously — and slowly if necessary —
to make the transition a smooth one.

Aaron Taylor

Postponement

To the Editors:

The SGA’s decision to postpone
Tuesday’s elections on Monday evening
was the result of a viable complaint. The
election sign-ups were not very well pub-
licized. However, in attempting to cor-
rect that mistake, the SGA made yet
another one. The SGA did not notify
either Y-presidential candidate of the
meeting to discuss a postponement of the
elections. This error clearly remains in-
excusable.

The Y began to publicize the upcom-
ing election five weeks ago through the Y
Newsletter — notifying students of the
elections before Christmas and the inter-
views for remaining offices after Christ-
mas. This is important because the Y
changes offices in early January — not at
the beginning of spring term. Further-
more, this is the first year we are intervie-
wing candidates for officer and program
coordinators positions. The postpone-
ment will both delay this process and
push back our annual winter leadership
retreat until the end of winter term, if not
later. In short, the SGA has greatly de-
layed our entire transition from old to
new officers through their original negli-
gence and later oversight.

The Y presidential election should
have occurred as scheduled onTuesday
