Friday, April 27, 1984/The Davidsonian 9

Cause/Solution Issues Irrelevant To U.S. Decline

Kerry Holbrook

I wish to respond to a concern expressed in Bill
Bugg’s recent article, “America’s Departure from Its
Christian Roots.” Mr. Bugg asserts that the problems we
face in the world today result from the lack of Christian-
ity within our institutions, especially within the schools.
I quote: “Countries do no die by allowing their children
to say state sponsored prayers: They are cut off when
they fail to look at God.”

The new Christian awakening which is based on
ideas found in the rhetoric of the Reagan administration
is ironically right. America has made a departure form
its Christian roots; we have placed the authority of our
government and our policies over God’s authority.
However, shcool prayers, blanket anti-abortion laws,
and other cause/solution issues to which these people
adhere are quite irrelevant to the dilemma that we all rec-

ognize.

Consider for example the following policies upheld
by this and past administrations.and supported by us in
our silence.

1. We continue to send military and economic aid to
countries such as Guatemala and El Salvador which sys-
tematically murder portions of their populations,
primarily by the use of an army of young men and death
squads.

Consider: You are faced with the disappearance of
your husband because he sold food to people considered
“subversive” to the government. The people he ‘sold

food to were friends sharing in religious activities with
you such as Bible study and worship. You witness the
gang rape and decapitation of your daughter by govern-
ment army men who have nothing better to do with their
time. Consider fleeing your country to seek refuge in the
land of the free, only to be turned back, deported be-
cause the INS considers you an “economic refugee.” All
this happens every day.

2. We continue to put almost 60 percent of each per-
son’s income tax into the “defense budget” for the con-
tinuation of the massive buildup of nuclear arms, capa-
ble of being and intended to be first strike weapons:
Pershing II's, Cruise missiles, the MX. The arms race is
built on fear and hatred of another nation. If this race
ever ends in a nuclear war, it will not be a war at all but
will be mass suicide and will take with it every creation
of the Creator God.

3. Furthermore, as we continue to go ahead with
such a race we prevent people now from life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness as we drain much needed
economic and human resources from those communities
which we claim to be protecting and securing.

I could go on but my point is clear; if we are to sup-
port this new Christian awakening we had better
reevaluate our present policies and our individual re-
sponsibilities for them.

What then does this mean for those of us who consid-
er ourselves to be Christians? Supporting school prayer,
I think, is absurd. Children can pray in schools and they
do. Furthermore, not all Americans are Christians and to
limit the activities of God to Christianity or to America is
wrong.

We are called not to cast the first stone, but to love
our enemies and to be faithful to God. We are called to
build security in God, not with nuclear weapons which
are our present day idols. We are called to be peacemak-
ers, to contribute to the ultimate ideal of shalom. We are
called to be like Martin Luther King, who continued his
struggle for what was right even while knowing he
would die; to oppose policies, through acts of civil dis-
obedience if necessary, which are contrary to the laws of
God. We are called to open our doors to refugees from
Central America, Haiti, Russia, and Cuba, those oppres-
sed from the right and from the left.

We are called to stand on the border of Nicaragua
and Honduras as a symbol that we have had enough, to
pray for peace. We are caled to be like the boy, an outpa-
tient of the hospital in New Orleans, who after saving all
his money to buy a stereo decided that instead he wanted
to buy Christmas gifts for all the children in the hospital.
We are called to give up our lives, like the churchwomen
in El Salvador, so that the kingdom of God, the restora-
tion of the community, can happen. God is within our
midst. God is in each one of us.

But are we ready for the kingdom to come? Are we
ready to give up that which is dear to us — our money,
our position at Davidson College, our policies, or even
our lives, so that a black person can have a small piece of
the opportunity which we have stolen from that person?
When we can say yes to these questions then we can pro-
claim America to be what it claims it is.

Holbrook is a junior history major from New Orleans,
LA.

Hill Neglects Race Problem’s Emotional Side

Andrew Yon

Upon reading the article in April 20 issue of The
Davidsonian entitled “Project *87: Emotional Outcry
Hard to Implement,” I was at first astounded by its pom-
posity, then angry at its all-encompassing “super-ration-
ality,” and finally determined to make known my objec-
tions to the author’s comments.

Eric Hill began his article by perceptively implying
that the ultimate solution to the problem of racism is for
everyone to become “color-blind.” I agree with this
idea, but at the same time think it is too idealistic —
somewhat of an unattainable “Racial Utopia.” We live in
an America still haunted by racial injustice where blacks
if not directly and purposefully discriminated against,
are still indirectly eliminated from certain educational
and vocational opportunities because of the automatic
disadvantage of two hundred years of oppression during
which black expression and motivation were stifled. In
the words of Dr. Charles H. King, “What we might have
become, we are not. What we are now is only half of
what we might have been.”

My point is that since America has been so deeply
scarred by racism, complete “‘color-blindness” is impos-
sible. We must, however, work within a tainted system
toward a goal of racial equality and mutual acceptance.

It is my firm belief that two equally important things
are necessary for the eventual elimination of racism.
First, economic and social equality must be achieved.
The BSC proposals (The Davidsonian, April 13) for
raising the quota of black students, hiring ten black pro-
fessors, and having a black Dean of Students — all of
which Hill objects to — are definitely nor “color-blind,”
Utopian ideas. They are, however, proposals which
would help in giving back to blacks some of the oppor-
tunities which have been withheld from them. They ob-
viously constitute an Affirmative Action policy of sorts
and many people would object on the grounds that sucha

policy exhibits reverse discrimination.

This phenomenon of reverse discrimination is an un-
fortunate penalty which whites must pay for the crime of
oppression of blacks. If true equality is to be realized,
someone must suffer and surely blacks have suffered
enough.

For those who still don’t see that reverse discrimina-
tion is justifiable, maybe a couple of analogies will help.
An apple cart being pushed along in the street is knocked
over and all the apples fall out. It is not sufficient merely
to stand the cart upright and continue pushing it along. In

order for the problem to be adequately rectified, all the

apples must be put back into the cart. Similarly, if I hit a
pedestrian with my car, it is not enough for me to say,
“Gee, sorry ‘bout that. You'll just have to try to make it
on two broken legs.” The wrong is not made right until I
pay for the damage I caused, so the pedestrian can walk
as he had before.

Hill's implication that the quality of Davidson's stu-
dent body and faculty would automatically decline if ra-
cial quotas were implemented is a very brash one, and
one which would be difficult to substantiate. Despite
two hundred years of oppression, there are undoubtedly
many, many black students and teachers who meet
Davidson's academic standards, and to imply otherwise
is to be guilty of making a racist generalization.

. It is precisely this type of unfounded generalization
which perpetuates the problem of racism. Perhaps those
who make such brash generalizations should stop for a
moment and take a hard look at their own racial attitudes.

The second thing which I think is necessary for the
eventual elimination of racism is a mutual acceptance of
one another by blacks and whites, which will come only
with a true understanding of who each is. It is with this
idea in mind that I address Hill’s comments on “Black
Studies” courses. He contends that it would be wrong to
have courses with content geared toward one particular
race. ,

I disagree on the grounds that a Black History
course, for example, would serve to help whites learn
more about who blacks are and where they come from.

After all, how does one understand another except by
learning about his history and what makes him act as he
does? If one is the product of one’s environment, then
whites can understand blacks only in light of the black
experience in America. For this reason, Black Studies
courses would serve very beneficially to promote under-
standing between the two races.

Hill seems to trivialize the black experience when he
asks if it is “worthy of being taught simply because it was
experienced by blacks.” Let me ask a question: Is the
“American experience” worthy of being taught simply
because it was experienced by Americans? Certainly it
is, as is the black experience. Regarding Hill's notion
that students should not be required to take a Black
Studies course, perhaps forcing others to listen is not al-
ways the best way to get one’s message across, but
sometimes the only way.

Hill closes his article by stating that “despite the
frustration that blacks may feel, they must not allow un-
bridled emotion to get the best of them. The proper ap-
proach to all problems is a rational, objective, intellec-
tual one.” I am overcome by the pretentiousness of these
statements. Is any white person in a position to tell a
black person not to be emotional about the problem of ra-
cism? No. Should any white person have told Martin
Luther Knig, Jr. not to be so emotional in his speeches
and writings? No. There are simply some problems
whose solutions go beyond rationality and objectivity.
into the realm of emotion.

Racism is one of these problems. Its solution has
both rational and emotional aspects: whites musts give
back what they have wrongly taken. I only wish that Eric
Hill had stood at Charles King’s seminar and told Dr.
King that he shouldn't be so emotional about the prob-
lem of racism. I think that Eric would not only have felt
the heat of Dr. King’s fire, he might have been scorched
by it.

ww

Yon is a sophomore math major from Chelsea, AL.
