Friday, January 20, 1984/The Davidsonian 13

PINIONS

Chapel Hour Encourages Spiritual Growth

Dick Lee

When I was a prospective student, the one character-
istic that made Davidson stand out was its commitment
to Christian ideals. Phrases from the Statement of Pur-
pose, like the following, influenced my decision to
choose Davidson: “Davidson recognizes God as the
source of all truth. As a college committed to the historic
Christian faith, it sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of
history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole
life.” Being a starry-eyed Christian and young in the
faith, I was overwhelmed by the college’s forthright
Christian approach to education.

Here I am today as a Davidson senior. I am a bit less
naive and much more cynical with four years of the
“Davidson experience.” I now realize that what I under-
stood as “committed to the historic Christian faith” actu-
ally meant “influenced by the historic Christian faith.” |

. am not gniping. In my opinion, Davidson is as Christian
as any college or university can be these days. I only
wish that there be more consistency between the State-
ment of Purpose and the practice of it. A step toward ac-
tualizing the written goals of the college is to bring back
the chapel hour.

Another quote from the Statement of Purpose is as
follows: “Davidson is a college of liberal arts. As such it
emphasizes those studies, disciplines and activities
which liberate mankind physically, mentally and spiritu-
ally.” Davidson’s contribution to its students’ physical
and mental development is evident in the physical edu-
cation and academic courses, but how does Davidson
develop its students spiritually?

A response would be that the college requires that its
students take at least two religion courses. To me, reli-
gion courses are spiritually challenging; but to many
others, religion courses are merely requirements for
graduation, and religion exams are mental spittoons con-

taining regurgitated class notes. Besides, 1 do not think
that the writers of the Statement of Purpose meant for
spiritual development to consist only of academic reli-
gion courses. The writers probably had a notion of
spiritual development more along the lines of Paul in
First Corinthians 2:12-13, “Now we have received, not
the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God,
that we might know the things freely given to us by God,
which things we also speak, not in words taught by
human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, com-
bining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words.”

How can the statement, “[Davidson] emphasizes
those studies, disciplines and activities which liberate
mankind . . . spiritually:” be further analyzed? Perhaps
“liberate” is interpreted as “allow freedom of choice to.”
I see this interpretation as the one followed by the colege
since I have been a Davidson student. Students have the
freedom to develop spiritually in any way they choose in
a variety of on-campus organizations. Unfortunately,
these organizations, such as Fellowship of .Christian
Athletes, Catholic Campus Ministries and Davidson
Christian Fellowship, serve only a small percentage of
the student body.

What is the problem? Implicit in the freedom to
develop spiritually is that a student has the responsibility
to actually choose a way of spiritual development. Most
students have ignored this responsibility. They hold the
notion that they have enough self-motivation to develop
spiritually apart from the campus organizations. No one
has that much self-motivation. Becaus : we students lack
self-motivation, we must follow guidelines set by the
college and its professors in order taht we may develop
academically. The same is true for spiritual develop-
ment. No one is born with a spiritual silver spoon in the
mouth. Spiritually growth can come only through fol-
lowing guidelines set by one’s chosen spiritual commu-
nity. Paul in his Letter to the Ephesians described the
spiritual community as the body of Christ in which indi-
viduals (the body parts) worked together for the building
up of the whole community.

I see the writers of the Statement of Purpose desiring
that Davidson College be analogous to the church at
Ephesus with all of us working towards the building of a
strong spiritual community. A regular chapel hour en-
courages this development. Currently, more activities
(fraternities, eating houses, etc.) divide the campus than
unite it. A time should be set aside for chapel hour in
order that all students (and faculty) may attend. The
chapel hour will promote such a unity among its atten-
ders that they will finally be able to grasp what it is to be
Davidson students instead of just athletes, fraternity and
club members that attend Davidson.

I do not think any one would disagree with me that as
a tool for community building, the chapel hour is an ex-
cellent idea. Many, who are against the chapel hour, are
concerned as to what will be the pervasive attitude taken
during the chapel hour. They fear the chapel hour will be
too sectarian; perhaps it will be too Christian. They feel
that if Christian sectarianism becomes too strong at
Davidson, then prospective students of other faiths will
avoid Davidson, thus making Davidson a weaker school
academically.

This argument is a valid one against the chapel hour.
Speaking for myself, I would not care if chapel hour was
used to teach underwater basket weaving. I would bene-
fit greatly simply from fellowship with other Davidson
students. But Davidson’s Statement of Purpose
explicitly states a dedication to the Jesus Christ known
through Protestant Christian doctrines. If Davidson Col-
lege wishes to remain true to its Statement of Purpose,
the chapel hour need be sectarian. If administrators wish
to avoid offending students of other faiths, then I need to
ask this question: is the goal +f Davidson College to be
the best school academically or is the goal to be the best
Christian school academically and spiritually?

Lee is a Christian and senior religion major from
Greensboro, NC.

sony Shakes Disney’s World

Mike Stephens

All my childhood visions of the nature of one of the
most famous persons ever to impress the minds of the
under-ten generation were shattered last week when the
Supreme Court upheld the private use of video tape re-
corders for the purpose of recording television pro-
grams.

io AD .Knawn. all alana. «hoe Winks. Main nt a th Oh Rah mt, tt nit a
I sppppeg.thad kaowe 2h

oe ae TES ae tate, Cetin intel ptt De ee oe i i a ae

was a big business corporation and not a friendly old .

oa) Ge er te too

man who wished only to bring happiness to the children
of the world. However, when I learned of the Supreme
Court verdict on the case of Walt Disney vs. Sony, I
knew I would never be able to look at Mickey Mouse in
the same way again — and all because of an invention
whereby we can watch the garbage we missed last week.

Walt Disney, or better, the Walt Disney Corpora-
tion, complained that persons owning video tape recor-
ders tend to record material that normally they would
have to pay to see in a theater or rent from authorized dis-
tributors of pre-recorded materials. They sought a Su-
preme Court verdict which would force the Sony corpo-
ration and other manufacturers of video recording
paraphernalia to pay a percentage-based royalty on the

sale of their material. This was supposed to compensate
for lost revenues from viewing recorded material instead

of going to theaters or renting tapes from those dis-
tributors already paying royalties to the film companies.

Their point seems valid enough in theory, but the
problem was that Disney could not show that they had
suffered any loss at all due to the use of the taping de-
vices. Consequently, and rightly, they lost.

But they weren't happy about it. A Disney spokes-
person characterized the verdict as a blow to the motion
picture industry from which it may never recover.
Another said he felt the verdict represented an attempt to
do away with theater as it exists in America today. They

ported “massive losses” they were going to suffer as a re-
sult. This case was a landmark, not on the issue of video
tape recording methods or the motion picture industry,
but a common sense verdict made by a United States
court.

Recently a man in New York City was awarded
$350,000 as a result of hurling himself in front of a mov-
ing subway train in an attempt to commit suicide. While
on the surface this verdict may seem absurd, one has to
delve into the matter to find out how absurd the case re-
ally was. This man, who had a history of mental instabil-
ity, attempted suicide by jumping in front of a New York
City transit train. The impact of the car severed two of
his limbs. His lawyer proposed that the brakeman should
have been able to stop the train successfully and cause no
injury 25 percent of the time if he was truly alert. He

was, therefore, 25 percent responsible for the accident.

Because the client was 75 percent responsible, he low-
ered his demand on the ttansit authority by 75 percent,
leaving a sum of $350,000. He then won his case. To
complete the absurdity, last year he once again managed

to leap from his wheelchair in front of another train.
It was good, for a change, to hear that the Disney

case was judged on the basis that no loss had occurred. It
just makes sense that if no loss is experienced, then no
royalties are required to compensate. The losses the Dis-
ney people based all their figures on were the royalties
which would be lost if the Supreme Court failed to grant

: academe 6. Vtlete ein Bi thengs alts ek QR Oe ha ee ee
rir tie. ye ees PIT PRPS - a) a ye igi sta genes mY CARAS Sree oe ot

Walt Disney may have been a nice old man, but the’
company bearing his name is downright greedy. I, for
one, was happy to see a good, solid, common sense ap-
proach to an issue for once. I hope this policy will con-
tinue. Something is wrong with a court that can award a
man $350,000 for attempting suicide, an act illegal in
most places. The problem is not with the system by
which justice is administered, but in the justice which
the system administers. It’s about time that a close look
was taken at the intricate system of plea bargaining and
mitigating circumstances that has evolved from the prin-
ciple of trial by a jury of ones peers. Our system will
work if we let it, and the Disney/Sony verdict is evidence
of this. Sorry Micky and Goofy, but you messed up this
time.

Stephens is a freshman from Roswell, Ga,
