THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 9

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, December 5, 1984

Kuykendall May Name New A.D. This Week

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

College President John Kuykendall
may name the new College athletic direc-
tor late this week. According to search
committee Chairman J. B. Stroud, the
College is negotiating with one of three
candidates his committee recommended
for the job.

Stroud said the search committee
completed its interviews and sent the
names of three candidates to Kuyken-
dall. Since then, he said, the College has
offered the position to one person on the
list and is currently trying to arrange
terms of employment.

The President’s office has not re-

leased the names of the candidates.

Stroud said the committee narrowed
a field of 175 applicants to 15 and then to
five, whom they invited for interviews.
The five applicants met with the search
committee and other college officials
during 24-hour visits to the campus in
October, he said.

Officials meeting with the candidates
included Kuykendall, football Coach Ed
Farrell, basketball Coach Bobby Hus-
sey, Vice-President for Academic Af-
fairs and Dean of Faculty T. C. Price
Zimmermann, admissions Director John
Griffith, Wildcat Club director Sandy
Carnegie, and members of the faculty ad-

By RICHARD CLOUDT

“Service is the essence of Dan
Rhodes’ life both by conviction and
commitment,” said Religion depart-
ment Chairman Sam Maloney at the
November faculty meeting. After
serving the College and community for
over 24 years, Rhodes has announced
his retirement. Maloney said the vet-
eran religion and philosophy professor
has “done a great deal, and we’ll miss
him.”

Rhodes contributed to the founda-

Rsligion Professor Daniel Rhodes

Daniel Rhodes Announces
Retirement After 24 Years

a

( ®

BRS,
per ee
rit
%

tion of Davidson’s Humanities Pro-
gram, and was head of the Community
Relations Committee through which
he helped establish the Lakeside Park
for lower income members of the
Davidson community. He led the
group that started the Humanities pro-
gram here in 1961, and served as chair-
man until 1981. He also served as
chairman of the Religion department
from 1961 to 1983.

Max Polley, chairman of first year

(continued on page 4)

Dean Terry Proposes Change In Class

By TED WILSON

The dreaded 8 a.m. class will vanish
from College schedules if a proposed
schedule change is approved, to be re-
placed by an 8:20 a.m. first class. The
change would create a_ late-morning
break to provide “an opportunity for the
school and community to get together,”
according to Dean of Students Will
Terry.

Terry proposed the change to the
SGA Senate at the request of the Faculty
Executive Committee. SGA President
John Laughlin said, “Terry brought it to

us to present it to the students,” who in-
formally have “expressed mixed feel-
ings” about it.

If adopted, the revised class schedule
will move the first class to 8:20 a.m.,; the
second to 9:20; the third to 10:20; a break
would fall between 11:10 to 12:00; and
afternoon classes would be held at 12, 1,
and 2 p.m.

College Registrar Richard Burts said
the free period would serve a variety of
functions: on Monday, independent
study conferences would be held; student
activities and committee meetings would

visory committee on athletics. Applic-
ants also met with players and SGA
members.

After the interview process, each in-
terviewer wrote out
their perceptions of
the strengths and
weaknesses of each
candidate, Stroud
said. The search
committee then re-
viewed each

Strou
applicant a final time. One of the five
applicants took another job, and another
“wasn't quite right,” Stroud said, so the
search committee ranked the three re-

maining candidates and submitted its re-
port to Kuykendall.

In looking for someone to fill the ath-
letic director’s position, Stroud said the
search committee placed emphasis on
finding someone with “a sense of integ-
rity, intelligence, and energy as well as
someone who had experience with a Di-
vision | program and an institution like
Davidson.” He said applicants generally
held degrees ranging from bachelor’s de-
grees to doctorates in educational admin-
istration.

The athletic director's duties include
organization of the intercollegiate athle-

(continued on page 4)

Racial / Ethnic Group
Releases 77-Page Report

By ALLISON WILLS
The Racial/Ethnic Concerns Task
Force was to release a 77-page report
today which recommends policy for im-

~ proving’ the ‘situation here for minorities.

All twenty members of the committee
appointed by President John Kuykendall
signed the report after reaching a consen-
sus on the recommendations.

The report concludes an intensive
four-month study of racial problems
which included. subcommittee meetings
and consultations with outside experts. A
series of forums and panels will now con-
sider the report, and the task force is anx-
ious to get feedback from the community
according to committee Co-chairmen
John Griffith and Bruce Jackson. Both
declined to comment on the specifics of
the report until it is released to the com-
munity. But they did say they are “ex-
pecting a lot of interest and spirited dis-
cussion about it.”

Jackson and Griffith urge that stu-
dents “not be intimidated by the bulk.”
“It’s double-spaced and structured so
that the introductions give you an idea”
of what each section says, Griffith said.
The report “includes a proposed policy
statement, nine areas of concern iden-
tified by the task force followed by strat-
egies for those areas and guidelines for
monitoring progress in the nine areas,”

be planned on Tuesdays, Wednesday
would be left open; on Thursday, the
school would host speakers and hold as-
semblies; and Friday would be “coffee
and cokes” day.

Terry said the main attractions of a
new schedule would be the convenience
of classes beginning at 8:20 instead of 8
a.m., and the opportunities to hear
speakers, attend services, and drawing
together the school and community.

Concerning the morning break from
class, Burts said, “We can afford to lose
the [11 o'clock] hour if we use the 8:20-

he said.

Formal community response will
begin Dec. 9 when fifteen members of
the black community — appointed by the

President — will meet on campus with
the task force chairmen. This meeting is
expected to culminate in a short written
assessment to the task force. Faculty
members will have a chance to discuss

the report with task force members at a
Jan. 9 forum, and students will respond
the following night.

Griffith said that more forum-time ts
available, but “we ask that specific rec
ommendations be put in writing to Dr
Jackson or me.” Until: the January
forums, itis “time to talk and discuss
amongst members of the community and
also with members of the task force.” he
said. “The members are all committed to
seeing progress made... as the com
munity reponds to the nine areas of con
cern, they may come up with better strat-
egies.”

Only 1,000 copies of the lengthy
document will be printed because of the
cost. One copy will be placed in all facul-
ty and staff mailboxes, and students can
pick up one in the library or the Union
Jackson and Griffith encouraged room
ates to share a single copy.

Committee members include Grit

(continued on page 4)

Schedule

9:10 and 1:00-1:50" hours to the same
extent that we use late morning classes
now. He said we now have 18 classes at 8
a.m., whereas there are between 35 and
38 offered at 9, 10, and Il am. “If
[more] courses were shifted to $ a.m. and
1 p.m., the plan would work, there's
nothing to talk about.”

Burts deemphasizes the effect of a
new schedule on laboratory commit-
ments. “Two thirds of the students don't
have lab obligations of any kind. They
would be able to take [more] afternoon

(continued on page 4)
