Wednesday, December 5, 1984/The Davidsonian

a
—

OPINIONS

David Resnik

An infant known as Baby Doe came into the

Indiana. He was born with Down’s Syndrome and
his esophagus was not connected to his stomach.
After consulting physicians his parents decided not
to permit an operation to correct his disconnected
esophagus. Baby Doe died in six days, despite legal
challenges from various right-to-life groups.

Baby Jane Doe was bor on Oct. 11, 1983 in
Long Island. She suffers from a severe form of
spina bifida, a congenital defect in which part of the
spinal cord portrudes through and opening in the
back. Her probable life span was less than two to
perhaps twenty years. Most physicians predicted
that she would have little brain function, be
paralyzed from the waist down, and be in constant
pain. She continues to live and suffer because
letting her die by denying her food or treatment
would be considered child abuse in her state.

Baby Andrew, who was born four months
prematurely (just a few years ago he would have
been considered a miscarriage), weighed only one
pound, twelve ounces at birth. He was forced to
survive against his parents orders and finally died
after six months in intensive care. His parents
regarded the ordeal as a cruel experiment in medical
technology.

There are many more Baby Does, Baby Janes,
and Baby Andrews across the country now living,
dying, and suffering: The medical technologies
available to physicians these days have made it
possible to keep alive infants who would have died
a decade ago and who die every day in countries
less advanced than our own. It is now in our power
to keep almost all severely handicapped infants
alive. But should we? Should we keep a child alive
who has an incurable disease like spina bifida which
dooms them to at most a few years of intense
suffering and death? Is no life worse than a horrible

world on April 9, 1982 at Bloomington Hospital in

death? This essay will try to answer or at least
provide a way to find an answer to the problems
mentioned above.

All that is certain about Baby Doe cases is their
uncertainty. Doctors just can’t accurately. predict
how severely handicapped infants will be as
children or young adults (if they live that long).
Many of them will spend their entire life lying in a
bed with a dead brain. But there will always be
exceptions; some Baby Does may even learn to
walk or speak. One physician commented in a letter
to the Village Voice: ‘Medicine is a science of
statistics, and an art of judgement. Studies of large
groups of children with any of these kinds of birth
defects . . . show statistically that statistically
speaking their prognosis is poor. There are
exceptions. There always are. That is what makes
decision-making by health professionals so diffi-
cult.”

Besides medical uncertainty, decisions
concerning the welfare of severely handicapped
children also face legal and moral uncertainty.
Some argue that any denial of food or medical
treatment to a severely handicapped infant should be
considered child abuse or even murder. Others
claim that it is the parents’ right to act as proxies for
their child; they may decide what is in the best
interests of their child. If they think that their child
would prefer death to intense suffering, then they
may request that their child be permitted to die.

Since so much uncertainty surrounds this issue,
we should try to obtain the best medical and ethical
information in each case and not to make grave
errors through our ignorance. It would be
irresponsible and inhumane to assume blindly that
any child’s life, however short and painful, would
be preferable to death. Likewise, it would be wrong
to let a child die who has a good chance of leading a
worthwhile life. These decisions must be made
through a careful case by case evaluation of the
facts, not by some overarching moral principle.

But the radical right-to-life groups would have
us decide these issues at the general level without
considering individual cases. They hold that all
human life is sacred and that permitting any

Who Should Make Life And Death Decisions ?

severely handicapped infant to die is immoral and
ought to be illegal. They have been fighting to keep
severely handicapped infants alive under any
conditions, even if the parents have requested that
the infants be allowed to die.

Some of the right-to-lifers argue that we are
“playing God” when we decide to let a baby die.
But aren’t we playing God when we decide to keep
a baby alive that would’ ve died without our modern
technology? Obviously, someone is going to have to
play God. But it should be the child’s parents and a
medical review board, not an extremist religion
trying to enforce its morality.

Decisions concerning the welfare of severely
handicapped infants will always be difficult,
painful, and plagued by uncertainty, but it is better
that we face them one at a time, rather than embrace
a general law that may not be precise enough to
cover specific cases. To make as informed a
decision as possible, the parents of severely
handicapped children should be assisted by a
medical review board composed of physicians,
lawyers, clergy, philosophers, and concerned citi-
zens.

The parents should have the right to make the
decision because it is their child, not the
physicians’, the churches’, or the state’s. They
brought the child into the world and they will have
to take care of it should they decide to keep it alive.
It is common practice in medical treatment that
when a patient is not emotionally or mentally
competent enough to give informed consent for
treatment, then the closest relative becomes proxy.
A severely handicapped infant cannot give informed

consent; therefore, its parents should be its proxy.
Of course, they may make as many errors as the
state or the church would in deciding the fate of
their child. But at least their errors will be motivated
by love and concern for their own child, rather than
religious dogmatism or scientific curiosity.

Resnik is a senior philosophy major from Chapel
Hill, N.C. and an Editor emeritus of The Davidso-
nian.

AI Combats Human Rights Violations

Kathy Bray

The world celebrates December |0th as Human
Rights Day. This Monday marks the 36th anniversary of
the signing of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights which consequently serves as the foundation of
Amnesty International's mandate and work: “No one
shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or de-
grading treatment or punishment” (Article 5).

36 years after the signing of the Declaration, torture
continues to be government policy in one-third of the na-
tions of the world. Amnesty International defines torture
as “any severe physical or mental pain intentionally ia-
flicted by or at the instigation of a public official to ob-
tain confessions or information or to punish or to intimi-
date.” AI’s recent thrust is to investigate reports of
women as torture victims and to expose the offending
governments.

As recorded in the Congressional Record of June 26,
1984, former Senator Charles Percy (R. III.) stated that,
“We are convinced that both international and domestic
pressure can be effective in persuading governments to
implement measures to reduce and eventually abolish
torture. If one victim can be helped by our efforts, those
efforts are worthwhile.” Torture victims include fellow
humans of various professions and backgrounds who, ir.
some real or imagined capacity, challenge their govern-
ments. For expressing their personal beliefs, or simply
for being associated with a “dangerous” person, torture
victims suffer unimaginable physical and verbal assaults

resulting in irreparable bodily, emotional and spiritual
scarring, and sometimes death.

An Amnesty International bulletin explains that,
‘No one’s personal experience of torture can serve as a
prototype of victims’ suffering. The common human de-
nominator is pain, inflicted in a deliberate attempt to

The Davidson College commu-
nity is urged to reflect on the
flagrant atrocities committed
against human dignity and life.
Though worldwide torture and
human rights violations are is-
sues of overwhelming mag-
nitude, all concerned individu-
als can help effect a change by
participating in the Amnesty
International chapter at David-

son College

destroy a person's dignity and integrity. But the singular
horror of torture lies in the unique pain felt by each vic-
tim.”

Amnesty International calls itself “an independent,
world-wide movement, working impartially for the re-

lease of all prisoners of conscience, fair and prompt
trials for political prisoners, and an end torture and exec-
utions.” The Davidson College community is urged to
reflect on the flagrant atrocities committed against
human dignity and life. Though worldwide torture and
human rights violations are issues of overwhelming
magnitude, all concerned individuals can help effect a
change by participating in the Amnesty International
chapter at Davidson College.

Participation essentially entails staying abreast of ac
tivities sponsored by the Al chapter at Davidson. This
serves two functions. First, as a concerned individual,
one can learn more about pressing issues through Al
speakers and films. For example, Al will show the film,
“The Making of a Torturer” this Thursday at 7pm in the
Big Screen Room. Secondly, one can help promote
change by participating in the Al letter-writing sessions
By spending 15 minutes writing a simple, structured let-
ter, one can both apply pressure on a government guilty
of human rights violations, as well as reach out to des-
pairing prisoners of conscience and victims of torture. A
former prisoner of Uruguay shared with an Amnesty
member the following thoughts: “The task that you have
been carrying out for years [letter-writing] is a hand
stretched out further than the iron bars of prison, which
in our worst moments makes us feel that we are never
alone, that there is always hope and a feeling of love that
has no frontiers and no languages.”

Allow your conscience the freedom to act. Help
abolish torture.

Bray is a senior Center major from San Antonio, Texas.

