THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, April 6, 1984

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Volume LXXIII, Number 21

By DAN VOORHIS

How can one man tyrannize an au-
dience of 300 people for four hours,
and yet leave them feeling freer than
when they came in? Dr. Charles King,
who held a seminar on racial aware-
ness last Wednesday afternoon in the
Gallery, berated his listeners into
anger and then twisted that hostility
into a positive force aimed at destroy-
‘ing racism.

King emphasized the importance
of his mission at the beginning of the
seminar, and promised that the audi-
ence would “never forget these four
hours . . . I speak as if it were my last
day on earth. I have no time for games,
no time even for questions. I must
speak because I have fire in my
bones.”

For the first three hours, King
forcefully presented his argument that
white institutions are the sole cause of

Dr. Charles King conducts his racism seminar

King Teaches Equality

(Carroll Overton

racism in America. He backed up his
argument with charts, statistics, and a
booming voice. He kept discussions
away from any intellectual considera-
tion of the issue, and instead tried to
graphically convey the black experi-
ence.

King ignored, or silenced, any
comment with which he did not agree.
College Chaplain Charlie Summers
felt the weight. “I was not intimi-
dated,” he said, “but I was more timid
than usual. [ didn’t want to arouse his
ire.” King got these comments through
a number of devices, such as audience
opinion of the identity of a recorded
voice, or by asking provocative ques-
tions about individual racial attitudes.

The seminar, a four hour excerpt of
a standard two-day course given by
King at churches, businesses and uni-
versities, was divided into three parts.

First he (continued on page 4)

SGA Elections Council
Alters Election Rules

By ALLISON WILLS

Despite opposition from several SGA
senators, the Elections Council of the
SGA decided to prohibit Honor Council
candidates from actively soliciting votes
for this week's election. The move was
caused by problems with last year’s elec-
tion.

“There was a problem last year be-
cause the policy wasn’t in writing,” said
Elections Council Chairman Edward
Hay. “To avoid problems this year, we
put the policy on paper.”

Under the Elections Council's pol-
icy, Honor Council candidates are not al-
lowed to approach students to solicit
votes. The candidates’ names are posted
the week before the election, and stu-
dents are urged to approach the candi-
dates with any questions or concerns.

However, the SGA Senate voted
against the policy 12 to 11 in a non-bind-
ing poll. SGA by-laws do not allow the
the Senate to negate the Election Coun-
cil’s decision.

“The decision is up to the Elections
Council, and the fact that the vote was I |
to 12 [in favor] points out that they were
evenly divided. We contacted individu-
als on the Honor Council and relied on
their input,” Hay said. The Honor Coun-
cil was in favor of prohibiting Honor
Council candidates from actively cam-
paigning, he added.

SGA Vice President Beadsie Woo
felt that the Senate split evenly enough
not to cast doubt on the Elections Council
decision. “It was not a flash-in-the-pan,
rapid decision. We didn’t decide hastily.
Everyone had input,” Woo said.

Sophomore Duncan Fraser argued
his opposition to the proposal to the SGA

Drugs At Davidson: A News Analysis

By DAVID MCGEE

Of all the aspects of student life at
Davidson, drug use is difficult to deter-
mine. Many students and administrators
feel drug use has increased in recent
years. And with this increase, problems
have developed, along with warnings of
harsher penalties for illegal use of drugs
on campus.

Why and to what extent do students
use drugs? Does Davidson have a drug
problem? And how should drug prob-
lems be answered?

Drug Use at Davidson

The presence of drugs on campus has
mixed interpretations. Alcohol — by far
the most widely used drug at Davidson
— is used openly by a large number of
students. Since North Carolina raised its
drinking age to 19 last October, most

freshmen have not been permitted to
drink on campus, particularly in the 900
Room and at Patterson Court parties.

According to many people on cam-
pus, drinking has increased in recent
years. “I perceive there to be an increase
in drunkeness and the frequency with
which individuals are getting drunk,”
Dean of Students Will Terry said in a re-
cent letter to students.

One senior remarked, “My freshman
year there was only one party where ev-
eryone drank to get drunk. Now it seems
some people go out several nights a week
to get drunk.”

In contrast to alcohol, other drugs
have a hidden but prevalent use here.
One. student said he knew of at least a
hundred students who smoke marijuana
on a regular basis, and added that a lot

more probably do. “It 1s quite possible
that I have been naive during the last sev-
eral years,” Terry said in his letter to stu-
dents, “but it is currently my impression
that the use of drugs on the Davidson
campus has escalated this year.”

Terry is especially concerned with
the use of other drugs in addition to
marijuana, particulary cocaine. The
availability of drugs has also increased in
the last few years, said two students, who
asked that their names not be used. “Our
freshman year there was one reliable
dope dealer. Now there are several who
deal on a large scale and many who just
deal to their friends.”

Cocaine, mushrooms (which contain
the chemical psilocybin), and LSD (acid)
all come in once a week, they said. and

(continued on page 4)

Senate saying very few students would
seek out the candidates to meet them. He
said this decision should be subject to
SGA approval.

“In the case of the Honor Council, a
person must be ‘honorable’ to be
selected, and I think the only way that
some students, especially freshmen, can
know peoples’ personalities is by meet-
ing them,” Fraser said.

“Under the ‘law’ as it is now each
voter must seek out the candidate if they
want to meet him or her, and I feel that’s
wrong.” Fraser felt that since few stu-
dents will approach the candidates, the
Honor Council will be “less representa-
tive and possibly less credible and re-
spected.”

Fraser also said that the proposal is an
“overreaction” to a problem last year
when he passed out campaign. flyers be-
cause he was misinformed about cam-
paign policy. He said the incident caused
a major problem, and the elections had to
be postponed so the other candidates
could campaign.

Honor Council President Bobby
Silver favors the policy. “The Council
felt like campaigning is not bad where
creativity, innovation, and issues are
concerned, but there is no creating or in-
novating to the Honor Council . . . it’s
not like the SGA,” he said.

Silver said that by campaigning,
“candidates can only say that they will do
their best as a judge. You can’t convey
character and integrity through cam-
paigning, but a better view of character
comes from how the candidate is seen
every day.”

Honor Council Secretary Nancy Ros-

(continued on page 4)

