8 Friday, April 27, 1984/The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Resurgence Of Absolutism Makes Matters Worse

David Resnik and
Ross Holt

Being the relativist, skeptical, materialist barbarians
that we are, we could not resist pouncing on Bill Bugg’s
fresh slab of rhetorical beef, “America’s Departure
From It’s Christian Roots” in last week’s Davidsonian.
Rather than waste time butchering each section of this
carcass, we will instead address several fishy general
points, and let those.savage jurors on the Court of Public
Opinion devour anything left.

Historical Inaccuracies

Any attempt to uncover an historical assumption will
be open to debate. One can always find an historian (or
first amendment scholar or U.S. president) to speak to
any side of any issue. However, an overwhelming
amount of evidence calls into question some of Mr.
Bugg’s historical claims.

Mr. Bugg argues our founding fathers were not nota-
bly influenced by “rationalism and deism stemming
from the Enlightenment.” This is far from the case. The
political and economic foundations of our government
come directly from the political philosophies of Thomas
Hobbes, John Locke, Adam Smith and Jean-Jacques
Rousseau. Hobbes and Locke were the precursors of En-
lightenment; Smith wrote in the middle of it. With the
exception of Rousseau, all advocated a system Of gov-
ernment based on individual self-interest — a far cry
from Christian altruism. Their systems were built upon
Hobbesian psychology, which held that man was moti-
vated only by appetites and aversions resulting from sen-
sory stimuli.

In the Federalist Papers (the justifications behind
the Constitution), James Madison makes it clear that the
U.S. government ought to regulate itself by alfowing
self-interested factions and individuals to check peace-
fully each others’ authority. This would, the founding
fathers planned, permit citizens to pursue fulfillment of
their self-interest while protecting them from _in-
stitutionalized oppression — both civil and ecclesiasti-
cal.

Mr. Bugg also states that Thomas Jefferson did not
intend “total alienation of religion from government,”
and asserts that Jefferson’s main concern was preventing
Anglicanism from becoming the state religion in Vir-
ginia. Mr. Bugg has obviously never read (or missed the
point of) Jefferson's “Bill for establishing Religious
freedom in Virginia,” written in 1777:

We the General Assembly of Virginia do enact that no man
shall be compelled to frequent or support any religious wor-
ship, place, or ministry whatsoever. nor shall be enforced, re-
strained, molested, or burthened in his body or goods, nor shall
otherwise suffer, on account of his religious opinions or belief;
but that all men shall be free to profess, and by argument to
maintain, their opinions in matters of religion, and that the
same shall in no wise diminish, enlarge, or affect their civil
capacities . . . [We] do declare, that the rights hereby asserted
are of the natural rights of: mankind, and that if any act shall be
hereafter passed to repeal the present or to narrow its opera-
tion, such act will be an infringement of natural right,

Jefferson was an Enlightenment Deist; he even spon-
sored a version of the New Testament in which all refer-
ences to the deity or supernatural nature of Jesus were re-
moved.

These inaccuracies reveal Mr. Bugg’s Christian bias
in viewing history, and call into question his other his-
torical claims.

.~ Informal Fallacies
Throughout his essay, Mr, Bugg appeals to numer-

SV Syebok 3 4

, thought. Mr.

ous authorities (Ronald Reagan, ‘First Amendment
scholar” James McClellan, Harvard historian Perry Mil-
ler, who is “an atheist,” and so on). Why should we be
swayed by these people? It seems that Mr. Bugg has
found a variety of pedants who support his views and is
unwilling to look at other arguments. Further, he offers
no evidence (theirs or his own) to support the assertions
of these people.

Toward the end of his essay, he commits the obvious
fallacy of argumentum ad hominem when he character-
izes all who choose not to follow the way he has chosen
as “barbarians.”

He also employs “relativism” as a buzz-word in rela-
tion to this barbarianism. He says, “we do not try to ex-
pose students to values. We say that there are no abso-
lutes, that everything is relative.” Relativism does not
connote absence of values. One can hold his or her own
values strongly and still recognize and respect the right
of others to hold their own.

A New World

Even if we grant Mr. Bugg all his historical assump-
tions, this still would not imply that the Constitution fa-
vored government endorsement of Christianity. It is one
thing for the writers of the Constitution to be themselves
practicing Christians; it is an entirely different thing for
them to have formed the Constitution in a Christian
framework. We would direct Mr. Bugg to the letters and
writing of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, and Madi-
son, among others, which stress tolerance of other re/i-

changes are detrimental, even evil. Trying to revert,
however, to some ideal past that may never even have
existed would be like trying to put out grease fire with
holy water.

The mindset of the country has changed over 200
years, as has the mindset of the world. Our country has
developed many different value systems; the Constitu-
tion as a secular document has prevented, for the most
part, violently destructive factional or sectarian conflict.

All over the world, political and religious systems
which do not conform to ours are becoming increasingly
more important to our interests. We can no longer push
these countries around and expect them to bow before
our red, white, and blue altar. To assert dogmatically
some ideal Christian heritage and trumpet those ideals as
absolute truth would be sheer folly.

And even if we “returned” to the supposed religion
of our forefathers, which religion would it be? Adams’
Calvinism, Jefferson’s Deism, Washington’s providen-
tial Christianity, or any other of the dozens of early
American Christian sects? The founding fathers were
quite sensitive to the sectarian strife that had town
Europe apart for generations, and saw a great-potential
for it here if religion was not solely the province of the
individual.

Today, Jesse Helms and Jesse Jackson both claim to
be Christians, but their brands of Christianity have al-
most mutually exclusive political connotations. The fun-
damental question, were we to call our government
“Christian,” would be, whose Christianity sh should we in-

- stitute?

Even if we could somehow manage to arrive at acon-
sensus there, what would become of non-Christian reli-
gions? Does Mr. Bugg seriously think we could program
Christian prayer into public schools and then claim to to-
lerate other value systems? Has he ever felt the aliena-
tion of a Jewish child — or an atheistic child — who
must face the scorn of his or her peers when he or she
must be escorted from the classroom as a prayer begins
because of his or her parents’ beliefs? It is exactly this —
type of tyranny of the majority against which the Con-
stitution — as the founding fathers designed it — de-
fends.
Conclusion

If our society is deteriorating (which is questionable
itself), a reactionary resurgence of absolutism will only
make matters worse. History has shown that those who
think they possess the absolute truth usually end up per-
secuting those with differing views. As Jacob
Bronowski put it in The Ascent of Man, “There are two
parts to the human delima. One is the belief that the end

Our country has developed many different value systems; the

Constitution as a secular document has prevented, for the most

part, violently destructive factional or sectarian conflict.

SSS SISSON

gions (not denominations), and which advocate a clear
distinction between civil and ecclesiastical authority.

- Still, even if we grant Mr. Bugg that the founding
fathers intended the Constitution to endorse Christian-
ity, why should we, in the late 20th Century, ignore 200
years of rapid change in favor of an outmoded religious
mindset?

The changes which have occurred are more than just
changes in values. Technology and scientific under-
standing, as well as an increased social awareness, have
entirely altered our social structures and modes of

Bugg would, apparently, say these

justifies the means . . . The other is the betrayal of the
human spirit: the assertion of dogma that closes the
mind, and turns a nation, a civilization, into a regiment
of ghosts — obedient ghosts or tortured ghosts.” Now
more than ever, tolerance is at a premium. The price of
intolerance is just too high.

Holt is a junior political science major from Asheboro,
NC and Editor of The Davidsonian. Resnik. is a junior
philosophy major from Chapel Hill, NC. and an Editor
Emeritus of The Davidsonian, ,
