Friday, September 14, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

College And Town n Install New Dispatch System

By DAVID VAN PELT

The town of Davidson and the Col-
lege established a joint dispatch system
over the summer, reacting to criticism
that the previous system did not provide
reliable response to emergency calls.

According to Davidson Police Chief
Jack Warlick, the new system will con-
sist of town police officers sharing duties
with four dispatchers.

Warlick said police officers will han-
dle all dispatch calls during office hours
from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays. Night
hours will be divided into two shifts, 5
p.m. to 12 a.m. and 12 a.m. to 7 a.m.
Two new dispatchers will share 12-hour
shifts on weekends.

Under the previous system a man liv-
ing behind the police station took dis-
patch calls from 5 p.m. to 8 a.m. every
weekday, as well as 24 hours a day on
weekends.

The SGA petitioned the Trustees last

Police Chief Jack Warlick
February to improve the system. In par-
ticular, an incident in which a student
called town police from Harding House
and the dispatcher failed to give proper
location and information to police offi-
cers prompted complaints that the dis-
patcher was overworked and unfamiliar
with campus locations.

The College received a $36,000 grant
from the Duke Endowment during the

Rising Juniors Caught
Without P.E. Credits

By DAVID VAN PELT

Fifty-seven rising juniors last spring
failed to complete the four-course Phys-
ical Education requirement needed to
enter the junior class this year. They had

_to complete the necessary P.E. courses
over the summer, prove they had fulfil-
led the requirement, or obtain permission
to return to school.

The Class of ’86 was the first re-
quired to complete all P. E. requirements
before its junior year. According to P. E.
Director Sterling Martin, no students
were denied readmittance this year,
though some had to appeal to the Execu-
tive Committee to return to school.

Martin said the confusion was due to
student negligence. “They’re used to
people looking out after them, and they
just procrastinated,” he said. Martin
pointed out that the College informed the
students about the new regulations. “It
was spelled out very specifically that
P. E. requirements for students must be
completed by their junior year or the
seventh term,” he said.

Martin said he and Registrar Richard
Burts sent letters in late May to students
lacking their required P. E. credits,
notifying them that they must fulfill their

credit requirement by August Ist. Of the
57 students the P. E. Department listed
as lacking the requirement, Martin said,
six were exempted because they had
failed to complete six semesters at
Davidson, “and had another term coming
to them.”

Forty-six of the remaining 51 stu-
dents completed a college P.E. course
over the summer, revealed an error in
P.E. Department records or “gave us in-
formation that somehow enabled us to
go ahead and clear them,” he said.

Five students did not respond to the
College’s notification. Three of these,
according to Martin, were students not
retuming to Davidson for other reasons.
One student was certified in life-saving,
but failed to report it to the P. E. Depart-
ment.

The other students appealed to the
Execurtive Committee at the end of Au-
gust on the grounds that they had not re-
ceived the College notification sent out
in May. Though this excuse had “very
little leg to stand on,” according to Mar-

n, “there was a move to decide in this
case on leniency.” Those students will be
required to take additional P. E. courses
this year.

Storm Damages Computer
Center Over Summer

By SHANE MEEKS

The Computer Center sustained dam-
age July 4 from two thunder storms in the
Davidson area. According to John
Casey, Director of Computer Services,
the center’s communications equipment
that connects terminals on campus to the
center received most of the damage,
which resulted from atmospheric condi-
tions, not direct lightning.

Casey said 33 Gandalf boxes, which
link terminals on campus to the center,
needed repair in addition to other equip-
ment at the center. Terminals on Jackson
Court were out of service until last Tues-
day, Casey said, and the center has fully
restored service.

The center will soon expand into the
old Post Office building and into the Col-
vin house, located on Depot Street be-
hind the old Post Office. The expansion
was suggested by _ interim-President
Frontis Johnston during the Board of
Trustees meeting last spring in response

to a need foreseen by Casey and his staff
for additional space. Casey speculated
that since a third of the student body plus
faculty use the Center’s two Prime 750
computers, space was needed for a Per-
sonal Zomputer Service Center, which
will be housed in the Colvin House, and
for the new terminals of the User Service
Center, which will be housed in the old
Post Office.

According to Casey, the improve-
ments will offer more terminals, a com-
prehensive personal computer program,
additional teaching facilities, and more
office space to centralize and handle the
administration of the center and the
academic computer traffic.

The move serves the Center’s com-
mitment to promoting computer literacy ,
Casey said. While Casey expects the
move into the Colvin House to be
finished in a “matter of days,” the renno-
vations necessary to modify the old Post
Office are still in the planning stages.

Peggy Pierotti

summer to help improve campus secu-
rity.

“I think students are going to see a big
difference in the dispatch system this
year, in talking to someone who is right
here, who is alert and awake and doesn’t
have such long hours that they feel like
turning around and going to sleep,” cam-
pus security chief Jackie Hughes said.
“It’s working good so far.”

According to Hughes, the Communi-
cations Department is making a detailed
map of campus locations for use by dis-
patchers, and the Administration and
police are setting up guidelines for con-
tacting proper campus officials in
emergencies.

The new dispatch system will soon be
housed in a newly renovated police sta-
tion. The room behind the police station
in which the previous dispatcher lived is
currently under renovation, and will con-
tain the dispatch system and a lobby.

.“We went from a 10 by 10 room to
using the whole section of the building
for the function of the college office,”
Chief Warlick said. He said the renova-
tion will be completed in less than a
month. Warlick also foresees the purch-
ase of new radio equipment to update the
system, but he does not anticipate receiv-
ing budget allotments for this for at least
a year. The cost of the new dispatch sys-
tem is to be shared by the College and
town, Warlick said.

Chief Hughes said he distributed stic-
kers listing town emergency numbers
during sign-ups for phone service last
week. “It doesn’t do any good to call
Charlotte (police). They just have to call
right back,” he said. He also stressed the
importance of students giving dispatch-
ers proper information. “If you just call
up the police and say, ‘I need a police of-
ficer,’ and then hang up, it’s not much
good,” he said.

wi gry

Davidson's newest dormitory

New Dorm To Relieve
Housing Shortage

By TED WILSON

“The enrollment is not increasing,
it’s just that we don’t have space for ev-
eryone who wants it,” Housing Director
Bill Bolding said about last spring’s
housing shortage. A new dorm was con-
structed this summer to alleviate shor-
tages, and enough on-campus housing
became available to those who wanted it.

This year Bolding said there is “a
fluctuation in the number of people [who
want on-campus housing] and we don't
know the number until the lottery in the
spring.” The number of juniors and
seniors wanting to live on-campus varies
each year.

Bolding said the new dorm adjacent
to Irwin and Knox “helps a little.” The
name of the new dorm has not been de-
cided yet. The College is “looking to
house 90 percent of the student body but
now provides rooms for 84 percent,”
Bolding said.

The new co-ed dorm, which houses
sophomores and transfer students, al-
lowed Davidson “to take care of every-
one on our waiting list,” Bolding said.
One half of the residents on one hall have
singles. There is extra spacc mainly be-
cause some students had already signed
leases for off-campus housing last spring
and removed themselves from the wait-
ing list.

Fred Higgins, a sophomore living
off-campus, faced the same problem. “'I
put down a deposit before leaving schoo!
last year. Some people who moved on-
campus this fall forfeited their deposits
[on their off-campus rooms]. Under the
circumstances, I made the right decision
last spring because | didn’t know there

was going to be a new dorm.

“I’m not bitter [that there are people
with singles on-campus. You just have to
deal with being off-campus now.”

The construction of the new dorm
over the summer left many students won-
dering where they would be living in the
fall as the completion date became more
uncertain. Sophomore Kim Powell said,
“T didn’t know until I arrived that I'd be
living in the new dorm.” Like many other
students on last spring's waiting list,
Powell called the housing office several
times about the dorm’s progress.

“They told us a week before arriving
that they had tentatively scheduled us a
room, but we didn’t know for sure until
coming to school,” she said.

Sophomore Emily Bond said “we
knew we were going to have a room three
weeks prior to school’s opening but we
didn’t know if we'd get in [the new
dorm] right away. We thought we may
have had temporary housing for a

while.”

There have been minor inconvent-
ences with the new dorm. Residents like
transfer student Pauline Rhodes, found it
hard to move in because ‘we got the fur-
niture in bits at a time.” Kim Powell
found it amusing when “we were all sit-
ting around having a conversation and a
man was standing there scraping the win-
dows.”

There are currently five freshmen tri-
ples. Bolding said many of them didn’t
want to be split up even when extra
rooms were available. There are more
triples on campus this year than last, but
Bolding said “many juniors and seniors
opt for triples because it's more econom-
ical.”
