THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIlIl, Number 15

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, February 3, 1984

By ROSS HOLT

A group of Davidson alumni, headed
by Howard Covington °37, has begun a
long-term plan to improve the Griffith
Street approach to the College from In-
terstate 77. The plan involves purchasing
lots along Griffith Street near Sadler
Square, demolishing the houses there,
and putting the space to some use benefi-
cial both to the College and the commu-
nity.

Griffith Street residents’ reaction to
the plan has not been entirely favorable.

According to College Business Man-
ager Bob Currie, interested alumni have
set up a non-profit corporation, Griffith
Street Properties Inc., to purchase the
property. Any assets which the corpora-
tion holds will eventually accrue to the
college, he said.

Lawrence M. Kimbrough °63, an
employee of First Union National Bank

Alumni Group Seeks To Buy Griffith St

see r PT
e.

A Griffith Street house

and the corporation’s Registered Agent,
termed the project a “long-term, low key
acquisition program based on availabil-
ity” of the land. He said the “effort had its
inspiration years ago related to a concern

Athletic Department Holds
Open Forum On Policy

By DAVID RESNIK

The Athletic Department held an
open forum on Davidson's athletic poli-
cies at 7 p.m. last night in the 900 Room.

A panel at the forum was composed
of Athletic Director and Head Football
Coach Ed Farrell, Basketball Coach
Bobby Hussey, Tennis Coach Jeff
Frank, and Women’s Sports Coach
Carolyn Brown. Physical Education Di-
rector Sterling Martin acted as moderator
for the discussion. Baseball Coach Geo-
rge Greer, Soccer Coach Charlie Slagle,
and Wrestling Coach Vince Arduini also
attended the event.

The Athletic Department held the
forum in order to establish closer rela-
tions with students and faculty.

At the beginning of the forum Farrell
answered questions about improving the

$50,000 to $60,000 in additional money
to help improve football equipment, he
said.

Farrell also said that “if | had my
druthers, | would reserve 75-80 to slots”
in each for football
players.

The next topic of discussion was the
College's status in the Southern Confer-

freshman. class

Next Week:
Focus on Athletic Funding

ence. Slagle. Arduini, Frank, and Brown
defended the College's decision to re-
main in the Southern Conference, be-
cause conference affiliation enables their
teams to qualify for the NCAA tourna-
ment and to compete against teams on an
equal level.

Responding to a question about the

for people living in a substandard hous-

Peggy Pierotti

ing primarily,” and because members of

the alumni had become concerned with
the entrance to the town.
The corporation's officers include

reet Land

Howard Covington °37, president; John
A. Tate, Jr. a Davidson resident, vice-
president: and Kimbrough, secretary-
treasure. Currie sits with the officers on
the Board of Directors, according to the
articles of corporation.

Covington, who donated the money
for the Davidson golf course two years
ago, initiated the project. He said that
after Interstate 77 was built, the main en-
trance to the College became Griffith
Street, which was “not very attractive to
look at.”

“At one time there was a pink house
and a green house with a °62 Chevy sit-
ting up on Coke crates in the yard,” he
said. He thought he should “do some-
thing to improve the approach to the
school, and help the homeowners as
well.” He contacted Tate, Currie, and
Kimbrough “to see what we can do.”
(continued on page 4)

Studio last week.

Will 1984 be a good vear? This banner appeared on the back wall of Chambers
Building but was mysteriously removed and relegated to the outside of Lingle

football team. The football team needs

Inside This Week

-Women’s Week Roundup: Niki Scott and
the approach to the modern woman. Page 3

‘Claude Frank: Virtuoso pianist ‘reviewed.
Page 5

-Ivey: Student artist Lentz Ivey resolves nature and
architecture. Page 5

-Women’s Basketball: Winning is setting
goals. Page 7

-Purpose: Statement of Purpose needs careful
scrutiny. Page 9

(continued on page 4)

Mayor Gantt Speaks On Black Politics

By PEGGY PIEROTTI
Charlotte Mayor Harvey Gantt discussed the history
of blacks within American politics in a 900 Room talk on
Sunday. He addressed about 100 enthusiastic Davidson
students and faculty members in a talk sponsored by the
Black Student Coalition and the North Carolina Fellows.
Gantt, a member of the Board of Visitors of David-
son College, was elected as Charlotte's first black mayor

-on Nov. 8, 1983.

Gantt began by observing that there is “nothing very
unique about what they [black Americans] expect the
political process to do for them.” Blacks want “the same
things that all other Americans expect — peace and tran-
quility, and to live our lives out with a reasonable degree
of certainty that our interests are protected,” Gantt said.

Before the 1954 desegregation decision, blacks had
access to the political process only through the courts or
through protest organizations. The courts, however,

acted with “deliberate speed” and required a black “wil-
ling to stick his neck out,” a lawyer, and money. Protest
organizations included thet NAACP and, in some cases.
the Communist Party. Gantt's father was a member of
the NAACP.

The work of Martin Luther King Jr. and the electior
of John Kennedy in 1960 were very important to blacks.
Gantt said. The relationship between King and Kennedy
awakened the “conscience of the entire nation.” Gantt
said, and led to increasing pressure on the government to
recognize blacks. This led to the 1965 Voting Rights
Act. Gantt pointed out that this act gave blacks “a more
direct role — a more convenient access to the ballot box
than we'd ever had.”

In his focus on local government, Gantt noted that
one of the features of Charlotte's politics was the desire
to “be like Atlanta.” The strong connection between

(continued on page 4)
