Friday, April 27, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

SPORTS

Women’s Tennis Claims Victories On The Road

By PATRICIA HAHN

Senior Co-captain Eleanor Knob-
loch’s description of the Davidson
women’s tennis team as a “good travel-
ling team” proved an understatement the
weekend of April 14th. Shunning all
Spring Frolics festivities, they travelled
to Atlanta and to Boone to defeat three
schools in three days.

The longer of these two days was
Sunday. Beginning at 9 a.m., the team
shut out Emory Univeristy with a 9-0

victory. Coach Caroline Brown regarded
this match as an excellent win, adding
that Emory is considered to be one of the
stronger teams in Davidson’s division.
Calling on all possible energy re-
serves, the team then proceeded to play
and defeat (6-3) Southern Birmingham
University the same afternoon. Again,
Brown credited the team with an out-
standing performance. She cited in par-
ticular the victory at number one double:
for partners Caroline Barclay, a sopho-
more, and Knobloch. In three sets, 6-3,

By HUNTER GOURLEY

There has been something big hap-
pening at Davidson College every
week now for over a month. I get
burned out just thinking about it all.
We've had the Twins and the
Stoneshow, even an Easter Holiday.
The Rusk formal fell in there some-
where, and finally for all you *baggers
and groupies there was Greek Week.
When to study amidst all of this
hoopla?

The Greek Week frat-frenzy began
this past Monday and peaked Wednes-
day evening behind Vail Commons
with the singing of songs. The brothers
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity felt
compelled to turn out for the singing
this year: they needed a fifth place
finish to win it all and become (very)
mythical Greek gods in their own right
for a year.

The SAEs played it safe, crooning
out such traditional old favorites as
“All Hail! O Davidson!” and then their
own fraternity song. Their strategy
proved successful and despite the fact
that the Alma Mater sounded more like
‘Aw Hell! Oh Davidson,” their efforts
were enough to please the judges,
especially Chalmers Davidson.

Senior guitar player and song writ-
er Bobby Silver led the KAs to a first
place finish in singing and a second
place over-all in the final tally for
Greek Week festivities. Their rendi-
tion of the Silver original, “I Came to
the Big D With High Hopes of Frat
Life” sung to the music of the Hee Haw
theme song was matched in originality
and spirit — if not in actual vocal
caliber — by a new Mick Smith tune.
With less beer in a few Phi Delta Theta

"bellies and a little more practice, it
might have really challenged Silver
and his merry band of “Milk Drin-
kers.” ;

The KAs were a hard act to follow
though, especially after singing lines
like, “At the end of the court I found
the KA House / Milk and cookies

Greek Week Guys And Gods

(were) there waiting for me. / True

etiquette, mint juleps, and fine south-
ern ladies / (All) In the tradition of
Robert E. Lee.” With this song they
got vengeance against those naughty
Phi Delts who had vowed earlier to let
no KA group ever win an air band con-
test.

The SAEs began the week by los-
ing to the KAs in basketball (once
again). Reports will attest to the fact
that they played fairly well,. consider-
ing the absences of their big name IM-
ACplayers and the unfortunate waiv-
ing of the rule that the fouling team
must chug beer. The SAEs did finish
second in basketball and they won the
bowling to end the day.

In Tuesday’s competitions _re-
nowned KA frisbee enthusiasts, Dave
Dendy and Scott Huie, helped their UI-
timate fribee team to victory over the.
Pi Kappa Alphas, leaving third place
for the SAEs. Later that afternoon,
big-throated Phi Delts were busy com-
peting against a miracle team consist-
ing of Jim Cox, Newton Quantz, Ed
Henderson, and Ben Williams, who
quickly drank the SAEs to glory and
into first place for the beer chugging
contest. Sigma Phi Epsilon finished
second in the event.

Again on Wednesday the SAEs
stole the thunder from last year’s
Greek Week gods by beating the Delts
in their second clash to clinch first
place for the tug-of-war event. Hen-
derson, Cox, Ralph Steding, Roger
Gore, and Peter Janneta comprised the
winning tugger’s team against a very
light but strong group of Delts featur-
ing Dan Blood, Bob Miller, and Ernie
Andrews.

Headball finished out the after-
noon’s activities and dragged on into
the early evening. Fortunately there
was sufficient beer and mud to last the
duration. The competition went to the
wire between PiKA and SAE before
Wallace Goodman saw fit to end the
match at 15-13 for a Pika victory.
Headball ended about the time the
singing began up at the Commons.

Congratulations to guys and gods.

6-7, 6-1, they upset South Birmin-
gham’s prized doubles team.

Following these two decisive wins,
the weary athletes packed the van and
headed for the hills. They awoke the next
day to yet another victory, the defeat of
Appalchian State University, 6-3.
Barclay felt this two-day sweep was not
enough and added, “Luckily we are in
superior physical condition because we
had to push the van up through the moun-
tains to reach Appalachian and then play
the match.”

Admittedly, this statement was made
after a long, arduous match last Wednes-
day, and its contents are not yet fully
documented.

Just two days after their return home,
the lady netters faced an away match
against longtime rival Furman Univer-
sity.

Last year Davidson took the match
with a close 5-4 victory. This year the
numbers reversed positions and David-
son lost 5-4. Tied 3-3 after singles,
Davidson’s number one and number
three doubles teams dropped their
matches in three sets. This photo-finish
emphasizes that the match could have
gone either way.

To close out the season, the women

met Appalachian again this past Tuesday
and UNC-G the following Wednesday.
A more decisive victory (8-1) was the
lady netters’ home match response to
A.S.U.

Entering the UNC-G match Brown
acknowledged the importance of this
match toward a bid for nationals. UNC-
G, Brown knew, was a school with
which Davidson would be closely com-
pared by the Nationals Selection Com-
mittee. To end the season as gracefully as
they had begun, Davidson won 9-0.

Though criticized by other teams for
playing home matches on clay, the
Davidson lady racketeers proved their
skill on all surfaces under various condi-
tions. Both Brown and junior Tricia Ives
point out this team’s “‘adaptibility, ver-
satility, and ability to overcome obsta-
cles.” .

Combine these qualities with the
team’s obvious talent and join them in
this week’s anticipation of an invitation
to the Division III National Tennis
Championships, May 7-12 in
Kalamazoo, Michigan.

The list of hopefuls reads, in order:
Barclay, Knobloch, senior Adelyn Lutz,
sophomore Holly Johnson, Ives, and
freshman Debby Podolin.

Wildcats Enter Tourney With
Impressive Season Resumé

By KERRY BROWN

The regular season has come to an
end for the Davidson men’s tennis team
but, as far as the Wildcats are concerned,
the best part of the season has just ar-
rived. Davidson travels to the Southern
Conference Tennis Tournament this
week at Johnston City, TN, and the
Wildcats bring with them an impressive
regular season resumé.

The Cats are 15—8, third in the
Southern Conference, after winning five
straight conference matches and seven of
their last eight of the season. Davidson
also has an attack arsenal that will easily
put the Wildcats in contention for a third
or fourth place finish in the tournament.
The tournament picture looks real good
for the Wildcats.

“The guys are confident,” said Coach
Jeff Frank describing his team as they
looked toward the tournament. “We
played on the courts up there a week ago.
So, we also have confidence on the
courts,” Frank added. The Wildcats
should have confidence after humiliating
East Tennessee at Johsnston City, 8-1.

The recent court experience will be a
very small advantage for Davidson.
After all, East Tennessee played on their
home courts much more than the
Wildcats but, in the end, better players

overcame court conditions.

Davidson’s top adversaries in the
tournament are Furman and the Univer-
sity of Tennessee-Chattanooga. Furman
destroyed the Wildcats earlier this year
8-1, but since then the Paladins have
played over 25 matches. Frank believes
the Paladins are never up to par in the
tournament. “They're all tennised-out
when tournament time comes around.
They play so many matches,” Frank
said.

The University of Tennesssee-Chat-
tanooga defeated Davidson 8-1 also, but
the difference between the Mocs and the
Paladins is that the Mocs were unde-
feated going into the last week of their
season. UT-C and Furman, who both
have blistering roadrunners on the court,

‘will probably be battling it out for the

Southern Conference Championship, but
Davidson is a dark horse which could run
away with a second place finish if Fur-
man or UT-C slip from their pedestals.
“Everyone is playing well, and we
anticipate a top three or four finish if we
play up to our potential,” Frank said. The
Cats are playing well, the Cats have con-
fidence and, with a lot of luck and good
tennis, the Davidson Wildcats might
have a chance to become the 1984 South-

‘.ern Conference Champions: :
