4 Friday, March 16, 1984/The Davidsonian

Terry Warns Fourth Sentelle About Drug Usage

By DAVID VAN PELT

In reaction to reported drug use and

noise, Dean of Students Will Terry sent a __

letter to residents on fourth Sentelle
warning them that the “situation will not
be tolerated any longer.”

"In the letter, Terry stated: “It has
come rather forcefully to my attention in
the last year that 4th Sentelle is the center
of heavy drug use, particularly, but not
exclusively, ‘pot’. . . . lam asking cam-
pus security to visit the hall regularly and
to report to me the names of any persons
disturbing their neighbors, drinking ex-

cessively, or using any kind of drugs..

Students found to be doing any of these
things will be charged with a code of re-
sponsibility violation which may include
the eviction from the dormitory, suspen-

sion from the college, or a charge of
breaking the law.”

“I hope none of these actions will be
necessary, but I am not bluffing,” he
added.

Terry’s warning to fourth Sentelle is
part of his more direct emphasis on pre-
venting drug use on campus.

Terry decided to act following a party
on the night of February 16, after the
Housing Office announced a ban on kegs
in residences. According to Terry, the
party generated numerous complaints of
noise and unruly activity on the hall. “I
heard a lot of complaints about fourth
Sentelle, off and on, for quite awhile,”
he said. “It was obviously a situation that
had begun to get out of hand, and we had
to bring it back in hand.”

After the party, Terry spoke with a

Trustess Discuss Campus
Needs In February Meeting

By FRANCES PALMER

The Board of Trustees met on cam-
pus the weekend before Spring break.
Topics on the agenda included approval
of the new president, security measures,
a tuition increase, and campus office
space problems.

In a closed session, the Trustees ap-
proved John W. Kuykendall from Au-
burn University as the new College Pres-
ident. The Board “enthusiastically re-
ceived” Kuykendall, according to Board
Secretary Larry Dagenhart °53. The
Board unanimously approved Kuyken-
dall.

SGA President Hunter Monroe pre-
sented a resolution to the Campus and
Religious Life Cqmmittee to upgrade the
emergency services of the College
through a better dispatch system. Mon-
‘roe said he reported that the SGA is “not
qualified” to make a recomendation
about what action the Board should take.

Dagenhart and Monroe both pointed
out that the College will obtain a $30,000
grant on July | from the Duke Endown-
ment for the purpose of improving the
dispatch system. Monroe said he was
pleased about the grant because “I think
everyone recognizes now that this is a

priority issue.” Monroe said improved
security should also be a priority in
budget planning. Dagenhart feels that
“certainly the Trustees are anxious for a
resolution of the problem.”

The Trustees also approved tuition
and fee increases for next year of 9.4 per-
cent. According to the President's office,
tuition will go from $5770 to $6390,
room rent was raised from $1010 to
$1095, meals will cost $1045 and laun-
dry cost will remain $200 for a com-
prehensive fee of $9090 compared with
$8305 last year.

Interim President Frontis Johnston
reported office space problems around
campus and cited examples such as hous-
ing, WDAV, faculty offices, and the
computer center. Although Dagenhart
cannot remember if the Board made a de-
tinite decision, he commented “we were
advised and recognize that we have some
serious space problems around campus.
We're just trying to figure out the best
thing to do.” He said they are exploring
uses for the old post office as well as
other spaces downtown.

Dagenhart also reported that the
Trustees passed a resolution honoring the
memory of biology professor Cynthia
Grant.

_KING OF PIZZA |

OE Se UE. TSS AA
663-3030
225 S. Broad St.

mooree" FAMILY NIGHT

oT OM agetge, ROY 2 Aixotee

Every Monday Night
5 To 10

PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE

FREE

hall resident who had a keg in his room.
According to the student, a warning to
the entire hall was chosen as an alterna-
tive to his eviction. “I felt they were sing-
ling me out as the only cause of events I
wasn’t the sole perpetrator of,” he said.
Nevertheless, he said, “I think I had a
productive conversation with Dean
Terry.”

While hall residents said the letter is
being taken seriously, some complained
that the hall has received an unfair repu-
tation. Several Fiji fraternity members
on the hall said freshmen pledges have
been discouraged from visiting the hall.
“At least from what they say, they have
been verbally discouraged from coming
up here,” said one.

Many residents said that they had not
heard the complaints about their hall. “I
think it’s really sad that none of the com-
plaints of the last two terms even came
back to us,” one hall resident said.

Fourth Sentelle residents said the Ad-

ministration has no direct evidence of
drug use. Many considered Terry’s
explicit warning of drug use on fourth
Sentelle as part of his renewed effort to
control drugs on campus. Fourth Sentelle
was the only hall on campus warned by
Terry.

“The Dean’s Outbasket”, released
this week, reflects Terry’s concern. A
section of the newsletter is devoted to a
discussion of Davidson’s drug problem,
which he claims has “escalated” this
year. Terry presents two actions to re-
medy the problem. “First, | am going to
ask security to be on the lookout for any
suspitions of people selling drugs in any
quant and to report those persons to
me. . t,. Second, I intend to involve
parents | more frequently as I suspect stu-
dents of using drugs,” Terry said in the
notice. Terry also described plans to hold
a workshop on drugs, and to hire a coun-
selor “whose primary emphasis will be
on drug counseling-”

Typesetting Positions Available at Good Pay.
Contact The Davidsonian at 892-2000
ext. 148 or 149

eee

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’™ bring
money-savin’ coupon.

STEAK & 4 £06 BISCUIT AND

Please present this coupon before ‘ordering. One coupon per customer, per -
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in

y

| combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours [

only at participating Hardee's Restaurants | ‘ i 9

through May 31, 1984
c 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc

I FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.78 |
Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
| visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in

- combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
' participating Hardee's Restaurants through /

May 31, 1984.

| c 1983. Hardees Food Systems. Inc

Hardees |

BL aes rarcee Foo St ee ee eel
