THE oe IAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 7

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, October 26, 1984

Committee Anticipates
Drinking Age Changes

By JOHN GATHINGS

A yet-unnamed advisory committee
met for the first time last week to discuss
the College’s position regarding pen-
ding drinking-age legislation in North
Carolina. “We want to be able to respond
to the anticipated change in the drinking
law, in positive ways, ahead of time,”
Union Director William Brown said.
“It’s a matter of thinking which ways to
change,” he said.

The committee consists of student
representatives from various campus or-
ganizations. North Carolina will likely
raise the drinking age to 21 due to a bill
passed by Congress and signed by Presi-
dent Reagan last summer. The law will
withhold federal highway funds from
states which do not raise their legal
drinking age to 21.

Terry Seeks Student]

By ROSS HOLT

Dean of Students Will Terry has
asked for student input on procedures
used in enforcing the Honor Code. In a
notice given to The Davidsonian yester-
day, Terry said his office is “soliciting
from students suggestions for the Code
of Disciplinary Procedure (Honor Coun-
cil Procedure).”

Terry said students may present sug-
gestions in writing to either his office or
SGA President John Laughlin. The Stu-
dent Conduct Council (SCC) and the

Dean of Students Will Terry or-
ganized the committee to gather student
input concerning potential changes in
College policy. “What I want them to do
is to discuss it, to understand the issues
and the problems,” Terry said. He added
that the committee will submit a recom-
mendation to the Student Conduct Coun-
cil, which will in turn make a recommen-
dation to President John Kuykendall.

However, the committee has a long
way to go before finalizing a recommen-
dation,” according to Brown, who is
working with the committee. “At this
Stage of the game it’s a matter of
brainstorming. We are a long way from
doing anything,” Brown said.

He does see a primary goal for the
group. “The first thing we can do is en-

(continued on page 6)

Honor ‘Council will review the sugges-
tions. Then, according to the notice,
“there will be further opportunity to dis-
cuss those proposals after the Councils’
review.”

The text of the notice is printed in the
letters column of today’s Davidsonian.

Terry said he hopes to have the SCC
and the Honor Council review the sug-
gestions together. If those groups need to
make a procedural change, he said, the
SCC would amend the Code of Discipli-
nary Procedure.

Students take a break during last st Sunday's CROP Walk. The Walk
raised money to fight hunger on a local and international level.

Su:
‘Christian Harberts

i

ares

nary Procedure, the SCC can amend the
Code by two majority votes 14 days
apart. If President John Kuykendall feels
that the amendment goes against Trustee
policy, he can suspend the amendment
until the Trustees can vote on it. Other-
wise, the president would submit the pro-
posal to the Trustees within 30 days. If
the Board does not act within a further 30
days or if they approve it, it becomes a
part of the code.

Terry serves on the SCC with

Alumni Begin
Careers At
Davidson

By RICHARD CLOUDT

Ever thought about calling a pro-
fessor by his or her first name? This ad-
justment involves only one of many
that College-employed alumni at
Davidson must make upon returning to
their Alma Mater to work. The satis-
faction these new administrators gain
from another side of the Davidson ex-
perience, they say, outweighs the ob-
stacles. Of the seven recent Davidson
graduates that work for the College,
four gave their general impressions of
the work and the differences between
the students’ view of Davidson and
theirs.

Steve Soud ’84, a counselor in the
Admissions department, said some as-
pects of Davidson life became more
noticeable from his new position. He
said students seem to stick to them-
. selves;the amount of studying that
- goes on here appears more evident

Marvin Overby ‘83 cavorts with fellow administration members dur-

ing an open luncheon.
from an outside viewpoint, he said.
Soud said without having to study, he
has noticed how few extra-collegiate
activities Davidson offers.

“At first it was very difficult be-
cause there was little to do after work. |
often found myself lonely and de-
pressed. Now, however, I'm taking
more advantage of my colleagues and
College activities, and I've learned to

create things to do with friends.” Al-
though Soud enjoys his position, for
the most part, he still can not get used
to calling psychology Professor Ruth
Ault, “Ruth.”

Marvin Overby ‘83, Assistant Di-
rector of Media and Public Relations
has a slightly different view of David-
son. After a year abroad on a Watson

(continued on page 3)

ut On Council Procedure

According to the Code of Discipli-

mathematics Professor Steven Davis,
philosophy Professor Robert Maydole,
sociology Professor Janet Grigsby, En-
glish Professors Cynthia Lewis and
Randy Nelson, sociology Professor Peter
Venturelli, and German Professor J. S.
Winkler; SGA President John Laughlin
and Vice-president Beadsie Woo, junior
class president Ed Hay, sophomore class
president Mark Sandy, and freshman
class president Jody Hart; and sopho-
more Laura Kline and junior Robert Mc-
(continued on page 6)

Court Adopts
Alcohol And

Drug Policies

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

Most Patterson Court Houses have
formulated drug and alcohol policies in
response to a request last month by Dean
of Students Will Terry, according to
President of the Patterson Court Council
Murray Simpson.

Terry's request,
form of letter to Court houses,
his appeal last year for houses to form a
general policy concerning alcohol use,
according to Simpson. Terry wishes to
join firm drug policies with those con
cerning alcohol

The alcohol policies of the houses
tend to be “very similar,” Simpson said
He said most of the Court's alcohol pol-
cies reflect Terry's suggestions of last
year. Those suggestions include check
ing student [.D.s at parties and placing
signs at the door reminding students
under 19 years of age that it ts legal to
drink. By taking these precautions. the
individual, rather than the house. ay-
sumes responsibility for breaking North

(continued Jf page 6)

expressed ins the
follows
