Special Supplement/December 5, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

Men’s Basketball: Success Deperids on Team Play

By HUNTER GOURLEY

Riddle: What wears red, black, and white, and isn’t
very quick or particularly big?

Here’s a hint: a Southern Conference poll of confer-
ence sports information directors and head coaches
picked it to finish last in the cnference this season.

Okay, it was a generous hint. The answer is, of
course, the 1984-85 Davidson basketball team. But re-
member: a poll is a poll is a poll . . . and who lives by
polls alone nowadays, anyhow?

The fact of the matter is, however, that Davidson
was picked to finish last and the players and coaches find
themselves labeled once again as underdogs. Nothing
new or particularly revelatory about that situation:
Davidson has been perceived more often as the Under-
dog-Wildcats, less often as the preferred, plainer and
simpler Wildcats.

The mission for this year’s team will be to make up
for the loss of two-time All-Southern Conference for-
ward Kenny Wilson and, in so doing, score enough
points to prove the pollsters wrong. The bulk of respon-
sibility for meeting this tall order quite naturally falls to
the team’s returning lettermen.

At the point and sometimes shooting guard position
is scrappy, Savvy sophomore, Chris Heineman. Heine-
man took over the play-making slot at mid-season last
year, and piloted the offense effectively throughout the
remainder of the season. He was named to the Southern
Conference All-Freshman team. Heineman has looked
very consistent during preseason play. Pumped by his
Hawaiian brawl with 69” 230 pound Virginia Cavalier
Tom Sheehey, Heineman, at 6’2” and weighing in at a
mere 155 pounds, more than lives up to Coach Bobby
Hussey’s assessment of him as a real competitor.

The other sophomore is Anthony “Ace” Tanner, a
6°7" 198-pound swoop-dunking machine. He will see
time at the forward and guard positions. Tanner comes
fully equiped with a soft, long-armed jumper and plenty
of leg power for four-wheeling up, over, and around any
traffic in the lanes. Tanner has demonstrated that he pos-
sesses all the skills necessary, and last. year’s exposure

The five remaining lettermen are all juniors. Their
combined efforts, along with the two sophomores and
the rest of the team, will tighten up the scoring slack
created by Wilson’s departure. These upperclassmen
also share the extra burden of providing leadership and
experience for a young, relatively inexperienced, and
seniorless team.

Rocky Kmiecik

No. 22 Pepper Bego looks for a pass

ship and experience for a young, relatively inexperi-
enced, and seniorless team.

Not many players score as well in the leadership,
hard work, and dedication department as do 6’8” Ted
Wolfe and 6’7” captain, Ken Niebuhr. Not prolific scor-
ers or big, dominating power forwards, they excel inthe
fundamentals of hustling, solid defense, blocking out,
and rebounding. They are both back from a productive

summer spent playing ball for Athletes in Action in for-
eign lands and they, too, are coming off a productive
preseason.

Rounding out the returning front-court picture are
6’9” center Jim McConkey and 6'7” forward Gerry
Born. These two players provide some much-needed
scoring and rebounding potency to the Wildcats’ inside
game. They averaged five rebounds per game each last
season and are the team’s top returning rebounders.
McConkey scored a career high 20 points in last season's
overtime loss at Notre Dame. He also hit the boards for a
career high 13 rebounds three days later against VMI.
Born averaged over eight points per game, and close to
Il points in the last 17 games of the season. He poured in
23 points against Appalachian State and pulled down 11
rebounds against Notre Dame.

The top returning scorer on the 1984-85 roster is
6'1” penetrating guard, Pepper Bego. He averaged over
10 points last season and has already scored 17 points
this season against Wofford. Bego also compiled 31 ste-
als, second only to Wilson. Perhaps Bego’s strongest at-
tribute lies in his intelligent offensive awareness of his
own abilities: he knows what he can and cannot do.
reacts to the defensive pressure, and then does the right
thing.

Among these returning players are no real stars or
obvious stand-outs. The astute follower of Davidson
basketball probably knows that’s how Coach Hussey
likes to play ball. The idea is to get five or six players
scoring in double figures and to play team ball. That way
everybody contributes to the success and development
of the team.

Nov. 29 Marathon Oil
(Exhibition)
Dec. l Wofford
3 Erskine
5 Wake Forest (Chit)
8 at UNCC
12 St. John’s (Chit)
17 at Duke
28-30 - at Far West Classic
Jan. 2 at Furman
5 Notre Dame (Chlt)
10 E. Tennessee
12 at Appalachian
19 Marshall

21 at VMI
24 at USC
26 Citadel
31 at Western Carolina
Feb. 2 UT-Chatanooga
4 Appalachian (Chit)
6 Furman
9 at UT-Chattanooga
1] at E. Tennessee
16 at Marshall
18 at Citadel
2! VMI
23 Western Carolina
Mar. 1-3 S. Conference Tournament

Conference Teams Find Parity At Top And Bottom

By STEVE BYERS

There are nine teams in the Southern Conference.
Only eight will go to the Southeren Conference tourna-
ment in Asheville in early March. But, this year, due to
the expansion of the NCAA tournament field, the con-
ference has a very good shot at sending two representa-
tives to the big party.

But which two teams will it be? This season there
promises to be a scramble at the top between Marshall,
Western Carolina, UT-C, and possibly Appalachian
State. Davidson probably will be stuck in the second di-
vision, along with The Citadel, East Tennessee, Furman
and VMI. In other words, parity has arrived in the South-
ern Conference. But in different groups.

Keep in mind: no shot clock this year, no three-poin-
ters, a new coaches box, and probably a lot more travel-

ing calls (a league order).
Marshall

Last year, the Thundering Herd won it all — the reg-
ular season race and the tournament. It could have sig-
nified the changing of the guard in the confcrence, from
UT-C domination to a new Marshall dynasty. Second-
year Coach Rick Huckabay, a man not afraid to speak his
mind, loves full-court presses and fast breaks. Running
is top priority at Marshall and Huckaby once again has
the players to wear down most opponents. Gone ts last
season's star, LaVerne Evans, but back are three starters
and an excellent recruiting class.

Western Carolina

Coach Steve Cottrell and his Catamounts have the
best chance at replacing the Herd should Marshall falter.
Cottrell also recruited well, and three starters are return
ing from last year. The best player is 6'2” guard Quinton
Lytle, who should finally receive some attention this
year now that Evans and Willie White are gone. Lytle

averaged 20.8 ppg last season as a junior, and he could
really explode this year. Western has some size up front
at last, which could mean that possible second bid to the
NCAA’s might be mailed to Cullowhee.
Appalachian State

Optimism reigns supreme in Boone, and why not?
Three starters are back from last year’s 13-16 squad, in-
cluding potential stars Wade Capehart and Glenn
Clyburn. Also back, and now eligible to play, is North
Carolina transfer Lynwood Robinson, a point guard who
could be the difference for Coach Kevin Cantwell this
season. Another transfer who could have immediate im-
pact is 66” James Carlton. Cantwell finally has the tal-
ent comparable to those Bobby Cremins’ teams of the
late 70's. Now, can he do something with it?

UT-Chattanooga

The good news is that UT-C is no longer the best
team in the conference. The bad news is that the Mocca-
sins are still good enough to beat evefy team in the
league. White is no longer around to terrify opposing de-
fenses, but starters Clifford Morgan and Gerald Wilkins
(Dominique’s little brother) are back. Coach Murray Ar-
nold knows how to win, and don’t think he enjoyed
finishing second last season. If some top recruits can
contribute, and if Wilkins can realize his potential, UT-
C could make a run

The Citadel
The Bulldogs surprised people last year by finishing

in the conference's first division. And Coach Les Robin-
son might surprise some this season. After all, 6°4°
swingman Regan Truesdale returns for his senior year,
and Truesdale 1s perhaps the best all-around player in the
league. Also back from last year are starting point guard
Jimmy Tharpe and starting forward Shawn Brown. The
Citadel will have a tougher road this season because of a

relatively small front line and because Truesdale will see
a lot of double teams.
East Tennessee State

The Buccaneers fell on hard times last season,
finishing 6-10 in the conference and 9-19 overall. Coach
Barry Dowd should improve on that this year — he lost
only one player to graduation from last season's team.
Four starters return, including high-scoring junior guard
James Tandy. There is depth, and ETSU does have a few
quality players but, realistically, the best it can hope for
is a spoiler role during the seaon. If the team jells by late
in the season, it could be a factor in the tournament.

VMI

Pity poor Marty Fletcher, who 1s entering his second
year as head coach of the Keydets. All five of his starters
from last season are back, so really VMI can't help but
get better. Yet Fletcher's program gets no respect — ev
eryone expects the Keydets to be bad, and they usually
don't disappoint. But this year, who knows? Cedric
Wins and Gay Elmore are solid, if not: spectacular
players, and Fletcher finally has some depth to work
with. Let's not kid ourselves, though: VMI wall not seri
ously challenge for the title, but neither will it finish in
the cellar

Furman

Providing Davidson can upset a few teams, | predict
that Coach Jene Davis’ squad will not be invited to
Asheville come March
though seniors Noel Gilliard and Kevin Bryant return as
starters. Davis may have one of the best backcourts in
the league in Shawn Reid and Dave Conrady. but that

This is a very youny team, al

won tbe nearly enough this year Remember back in the
70°s when the Paladins had one of the best teams in the
conference and turned out players like Jonathan “Stitch
Moore and Mel Daniel? The mighty have fallen

