A Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian

Focus On Athletic Funding

“We are tightly pressed for money, but
all of the sports here are. We’re trying to
provide more things for the players,
which is pretty true for all minor sports.”

Former swim team member Wilson
Lowrey also believes more money
should be appropriated for minor sports.
“More money should go to teams doing
well and drawing support, such as soccer
and tennis,” he said.

However, Farrell feels that football
and basketball need just as much em-
phasis as the non-revenue sports. “By

comparison to other Southern Confer- .

ence teams, our poorest program is foot-
ball,” Farrell said. “We share our budget
figures with everyone else in the confer-
ence. Our other sports rank somewhere
in the middle.”

Basketball needs large amounts of
money to pay for travel expenses and re-
cruiting costs. Farrell. said game ex-
penses are high in the Southern Confer-
ence because “we are having: to recruit
nationally in-order to find people.with hig
academics and the ability.to play the
Southern Conference teams,” Farrell
said. “We are having to recruit like the
Ivy Leagues:do,” he added.

Farrell said football needs more
money because “equipment is so tre-
mendously expensive.” However, he
said, “I think we have the basic neces-
sities. No one has a situation where an
absolute necessity isn’t being fur-
nished.”

Budgeting

The key to the amount of money the
athletic department gets each. year is the
budget which Farrell prepares and the
Trustees approve each year. “A large
part depends on the total budget voted by
the Trustees,” Farrell said.

Farrell compiles the budget along
with the coaches of the other individual
sports. Once the coaches: decide on the
amounts allotted for each department,
the comptroller reviews the budget. The

(continued from page |)

Trustees make a decision on the total
budget, and the comptroller then tells
Farrell what percentage of the athletic
budget needs. to be cut. It is then up to
Farrell to decide where to make the cuts.

Adding extra programs, such as the
new golf facility and the extensive work
done on the riding stables, causes prob-
lems in this budgeting process. “As we
increase and add, we can’t do it with the
same budget, which is what has hap-

gram. When women’s tennis was added
my budget was cut in half. My tennis
budget is lower now than when I started”
10 or 12 years ago.

“Unless there’s some great windfall,
it’s not reasonable to expect that we
would get a major increase from the gen-
eral fund,” Farrell said.

Post-season Play

Two years ago the women's tennis

team was invited to a regional champion-

Intercollegi ate Athletics
‘Budget expended To income To
‘Revenue Sports 1982-1983 6/30/83 6/30/83
Football $54,000.00 $61,978.55 $94,523.20
Basketball 79,616.26 118,083.71
Total Revenue sports $116,000.00 $141,594.81 $212,606.91
Non-R rts
Men's Track $2,000.00 $1,601.84 -0-
Women’s Track ° 1,490.00 1,115.49 -0-
. Wrestling 1,000.00 839.98 -0-

. Baseball 2,800.00 4,081.86 0-
Men's Tennis 2,500.00 4,464.56 -0-
Golf 1,300.00 1,514.35 -0-
‘Soccer 2,000.00 2,564.19 -0-
Rifle Team 500.00 60.00 -0-

. Sailing 550.00 697.27 -0-
Men‘sCrossCountry 600.00 2,301.69 0-
Women’s Cross Country 600.00 239.11 -0-
Women’s Basketball 1,800.00 1,011.99 -0-
Women’s Tennis 2,500.00 3,676.91 -0-
Women’s Field Hockey 1,800.00 1,903.87 -0-

Total Non-Revenue Sports. $28,950.00 $33,159.50 0-
Figures do ngt inctude coaches’ salaries or the $124,138.70 spent for basketball scholarships.
‘Non-revenue sports total inclides recruiting ex,,enses.
Money ‘from... private. donations 1s added to the » : amount spent, which makes these
figures higher tharthe ‘proposed budget. ’

pened over the last several years,” Farrell
said. “As. we make things better it re-
quires more money, .and not just cost of
living; which is necessary to take care of
keeping ¢ the current program the way it
is.”

Frank ° said, “The problem of the
school has always been that everything
there i is an interest in is added to the pro-

Weather Delays Post Office

By BOYD BLACKBURN

In with the new, out with the old — _

but only if Mother Nature says so, as the-
Postal Service has discovered. The new
post office which was originally sched-
uled to open Feb. | will not open until
March 15 at the earliest due to the bad
weather this winter.

Davidson Postmaster John Fisher is
doubtful even of this date. “I don't think
they’ll make it,” he said, and he dispelled
several rumors currently circulating on
campus.

First, the move is being made be-

casue the current building is too small
and has already been expanded to capac-
ity. Obviously, this implies that the new
building will be bigger. And it will, des-
pite rumors to the contrary. There will be
600 additional boxes and greater floor
space to provide both students and
townspeople with more efficient service.

Second, the new post office will use
key-lock boxes rather than the traiditonal
combination boxes. The Postal Inspec-
tion Service has outlawed combination

boxes because of theft problems. There
was no choice in the matter although
many people have’ ‘argued that combina-
tion boxes are more convenient. For the
absent minded, each key lost in the laun-
dry will cost an extra dollar, but the
check from home will be safe.

Third, the odds are good that students
will keep the same box numbers that they
have now. Fisher hopes for an easy trans-
ition. “It’s worth as much to us to make it
smooth as it is to you.” In the case that
new numbers are assigned, students will
be notified several weeks ahead of time.

There is also the question of what will
happen to the building after it is vacated.
Davidson College owns the property and
currently leases it to the post office. Col-
lege Business Manager Bob Currie has
expressed hopes to move the Student
Store ino the building. Outside consul-
tants are now examining the possibility.
By moving it to Main Street, it will be
more available to townspeople. Also, it
will help revive downtown's sagging
economy. The move would not be made
until this summer.

ship toumament in Tennessee, but it did
not have.enough money left in the budget
to pay plane fare.

The athletic department offered to.

pay for a van to drive to Tennessee, but
“this solution presented a problem for the
players, who were close to an exam
period and did not have time for the long
drive. In response to the problem, indi-

vidual members solicited money from
their parents to cover airplane expenses.

Farrell said, “We don’t ever budget
for post-season play. When that hap-
pens, you have to go to some other
source.”

The men’s cross-country team faced
a similar situation. The team planned to
attend a tournament scheduled close to
an exam period. “It would have put a lot
of pressure on our people to finish their
exams and then drive 17 hours. By the
time we got there, everyone would be too
tired to run,” men’s cross-country coach
Sterling Martin said. In this case as well,
parents paid for plane tickets.

To solve this problem, some teams
are now trying to conserve money within
their own budgets for post-season play.
Track team member Adelyn Lutz said the
team was conservative with its money
this year so it would be possible to go to
regional competition. “We needed all the
money we could get. We conserved
money in the budget by leaving at 6 a:m.
so we wouldn’t have to spend the night

for away games. ” she said.
elevision Revenues

Income from television revenues is a
substantially large sum which Farrell be-
lieves could be an important addition to
the athletic budget.

As budgeting stands now, all reve-
nues from television go into the athletic
program, with the exception of one par-
ticular year. Farrell said, “A couple of
years ago we got $85,000 in TV reve-
nues.” Then-President Samuel Spencer
let the athletic program have the money
that year.

Farrell said $38,000 of that money
went to purchase the Nautilus system,
another $18,000 went for golf equip-
ment, and the rest went to other pro-
jectsd, such as waterproofing the football
stadium.

This article is the first of two parts.

PCB Storage

(continued from page !)

Immediate broadcasts by WSOC fea-
tured these transformers as possible vio-
lators of Federal EPA regulations cover-
ing transformers with PCB. The David-
sonian also featured these pictures in the
current issue.

“To prove that Davidson College was
not violating PCB regulations analyses
of the oil in the transformers were made
by an approved Charlotte Laboratory.
The analyses confirmed that the oil in
these transformer was below the control
limit for PCB set by the Federal Govern-
ment. They do not violate regulations of
the County, State or Federal Govern-
ment.”

While Meetze had no further com-
ment on the matter, saying just that, “it’s
no longer a problem,” he was dismayed
by The Davidsonian’s coverage of the
story and WSOC-Channel 9 in Charlotte.
He was “surprised at their sen-
sationalism.”

Gibson speculated that the College
would clean and reuse or sell the salvaga-

ble transformers and dispose of the use-
less ones.

Self-Selection

(continued from page 1) —

mittee’s work. He said that it has made
the Patterson Court houses and freshmen
“more sensitive to the issues involved.”

Dining Services Director Carleton
Pritchard said the Commons will feed
about as many people next year as it did
last year. The Commons currently serves
589 students. Pritchard said approxi-
mately 150 more upperclassmen eat at
the Commons than did when it opened.

He does not think, however, that the
Commons is taking away people from
Patterson Court. He said most of the up-
perclassmen eating at the Commons are
those who would have eaten on their own
if no other eating facilities were avail-
able.
