Friday, May 11, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

SPORTS

Davidson Tennis Solid; Plays A Strong Season

By STEVE BYERS

The world of amateur. athletics suf-
fered two setbacks this past week. On a
state level, North Carolina demi-god
Michael Jordan decided to pass up his
senior season in favor of turning pro. Na-
tionally, the Soviets announced they
were not coming to the summer Olym-
pics. But locally, the Davidson men’s
tennis team remains oblivious to the
problems of the “real” world. Coach Jeff
Frank continues to produce consistent,
quality teams which embody the true
spirit of amateur athletics.

Tournamnet Play

Davidson recently completed its sea-
son with a 15-8 record and a third-place
finish in the Southern Conference Tour-
nament. Junior Sedge Gray advanced to
the finals in the number two singles flight
before bowing to UT-C’s Orlando
Lourenco. Gray was defending champi-
on at this position. The Cats also lost in
the finals at number two doubles, but
junior John Hackett and sophomore
Craig Hall are blossoming into a great
doubles tandem.

UT-C won its seventh consecutive
tournament, while Furman finished sec-
ond for the sixth time in the last seven
years. Keep in mind, though, that both of
these schools offer tennis scholarships
(Davidson does not) and have considera-
bly more money to pump into their pro-
grams than Davidson. The Cats compen-
sate for these disadvantages by playing

what senior Mark Nottingham calls an
“intelligent, hustling, scrappy” brand of
tennis.

Frank was far from disappointed,
though, at the team’s showing in the
tournament. “We played mentally tough
in the tournament, and I was quite
pleased with our overall performance.”

Season’s Performance

And mastering the mental aspects of
the game is no easy task, especially con-
sidering that three of Davidson’s key
players this season were freshmen —
Hayes Dallas, Trip Caldwell, and
Michael “Monk” Meyer. Frank is im-
pressed with all three players but singled
out Dallas: “He had an incredible year,
considering he was playing number one
singles as a freshman.”

Gray readily admits that he was out of
shape for most of the season and that his
concentration was not what it should
have been. But he was prepared for the
tournament, and the hard courts at ETSU
were ideal for his serve and volley game.
“Sedge can play with anybody in the
country when he wants to,” added Frank.
Gray is the best tournament player on the
squad, and it showed at ETSU.

Nottingham, after playing one and
two singles his first three years at David-
son, was shifted to number three this sea-
son, but he did not complain. In fact, he
enjoyed it — “I had more fun out there
this year, because there wasn’t the pres-
sure on me that I had playing higher.”
Nottingham, however, did not have a

great season. He blamed injuries, sick-
ness, and a horrible slump midway
through the schedule. Frank noted that
Nottingham’s problems were probably
more psychological than physical. He
said that all seniors have a difficult time
concentrating on tennis during the spring
term, and Nottingham was no exception.
But the coach quickly added, ‘““He came
through in the clutch, as I knew he
would.”

Positions four, five, and six — Hall,
Hackett, and sophomore Bobby Nichols,
respectively — produced the best records
on the team. Hackett boasted the best in-
dividual record on the squad, and Frank
described his performance as “solid all
season long.” Nichols overcame a confi-
dence problem (at the start of the season)
with Frank’s help and finished with the
second best record. Hall began slow, due
to injuries and falling behind in school
work, but he came on and finished
strong.

Notice how everyone seemed to im-
prove and play his best tennis at tourna-
ment time. This is the sign of a good
team, one with maturity, experience, and
confidence, apd Frank proudly points to
Davidson’s blazing finish — winning
seven out of their last eight matches.
Looking back over the past season's suc-
cesses makes Frank happy, especially
when you consider that matches against
UNC and South Carolina were scheduled
only to give Davidson experience against
top-quality competition. But about next

year...

Incoming Recruits

Frank has received commitments
from four outstanding players. The big
catch appears to be Bill Young from
Washington, who is ranked among the
top 40 juniors in the country. Richmond,
Va. native Jim Thompson is also on his
way to Davidson and is ranked number
17°in MATA (a very strong region in
juniors tennis which includes the highly
competitive D.C. area). As if they were
not sufficient, Frank also successfully re-
cruited Rick Hodge (‘‘a great athlete and
a potentially great doubles player”) and
Ecuadoran Carlos Ortega (“one of the top
players in his age group in Florida’).

If this sounds like an exceptional re-
cruiting year, itis. As Frank says. “You
just can’t turn down great players.” Yes,
the prospects for next season are tre-
mendous: the team loses only Nottin-
gham to graduation, four top freshmen
enter the program and an indoor tennis
facility will be constructed on campus
over the summer. This will eliminate
conflicts with the women’s team for
practice time and the inevitable problems
resulting from inclement weather.

Look for Dallas to get some strong
challenges at number one from new-
comer Young and a rejuvenated Gray.
Frank may be facing a tough decision on
who to play where. But these are the
kinds of dilemmas that Frank does not
mind, believe me.

Cats Take Gardner-Webb In Last Game Of Season

By ANDY BARRON

The Davidson baseball team con- °
cluded its season last Saturday by sweep- .

ing Gardner-Webb in a doubleheader.
The twin bill ended a season highlighted
by improvement and rain. ~

“We missed 13 games due to rain,”
said Coach George Greer. “We feel we
could have won many of those games and
accomplished one of our main goals this
season, to go over .500.”

Despite failing to win half their
games, by going 12-16, the team did
have the best record of any Davidson
baseball team since 1975. The team suc-
ceeded in accomplishing another goal,
winning more than three games against
Division I schools. Davidson won seven
such games this year.

“The rainouts really hurt us because
not only did we not get to play some more
bames we could have won, but not play-
ing during the week hurt our timing,”
said sophomore shortstop Keith Helfant.
Helfant had a fine year this year, leading
the team in batting with a .352 percen-
tagé. “That is a dramatic’ improvement
. over his performance last year of .214.
Look’ for Helfant to have another fine
spring niexi season’ “""""* ”

Cat ball players in action

In addition to Helfant, sophomores
Tim Waters and Scott Weaver showed
tremendous progress over last year. Both
raised their batting averages and commit-
ted fewer errors. Waters was also listed
in USA TODAY as tenth in the nation in

. the category of doubles per game. Wat--

ers led the team with I! doubles.

.,. ...Pitching. is an area where the Cats

need to improve. Freshmen Billy
Waitsman and Steve Condon were in-
consistent, though each displayed mo-
ments of great promise. Weaver led the
team in innings pitched, victories, and:
complete games. Success or continued

Taylor Simpson

mediocrity will “hinge on the pitching ©

staff's ability to improve even further.

".,... The fine seasons by.this year’s erop: -

of freshmen are a source of great op-
timism. Freshman third baseman Dave
Turgeon led the team in home runs and
runs batted in. Freshmen Dan Simonds
and Dave DePaul were regular starte®s at
catcher and center field respectively and
played very well, especially defensively.

“I think we all learned a lot this sea-
son,” said DePaul. “We'll only lose three
players to graduation and we are getting
some good recruits, so next season looks
promising. Only wish we could play
now.”

The team does lose three fine players
in seniors Scott Redding. Mick Smith,
and Jeff McSwain. All three made im-
portant contributions to the team in the
form of fine play and leadership.

“They are great kids.” said Coach
Greer. “They were tri-captains by.unani-
mous consent and did an outstanding job.
I wish they were coming back.”

On his final season, Redding said. “I
was disappointed that both the team and
myself didn’t do a little better. However.
it was as good:as any team I've béen’On
since | was here. The freshmen have a
way to go. but‘have already made a lot of

" progress. Watgh out. for them.in the fu-

‘tures: : vee coven

 reear
