4 Friday, January 27, 1984/The Davidsonian

Medical Technicians Prepared For Emergencies

By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson students can be sure that in
any medical emergency, campus
Emergency Medical! Technicians are wil-
ling and qualified to help.

EMTs are emergency medicine-
trained students state certified to assist in
medical crises. In squads of two to three
people, they respond to calls from the
Davidson infirmary. There are over 20
EMTs on campus.

According to EMT secretary junior
Hunter Roddey, the EMTs receive about
one call per week, usually for cuts,
bruises, and other minor injuries. Al-
cohol-related incidents are among the
most common, he said. The most serious
cases treated this year, according to Rod-
dey, were a respiratory distress victim
and an accidental stabbing.

Roddey characterized the rescue
squad as a “first responder unit.” The
EMTs are usually the first trained per-
sonnel to encounter the victim. They
apply treatment necessary on the scene
and transport the victim to the infirmary.

The emergency training procedure
consists of 120 hours of classroom study
and two five-hour sessions observing

PCB

emergency treatment at Charlotte
Memorial Hospital. Classes are taught at
Davidson by representatives of Central
Piedmont community College. Covered
in the training are anatomy study, patient
assessment, childbirth, and patient trans-
fer. Aside from posible physical educa-
tion credit for the training, the classes are
unaffiliated with Davidson.

Eleven squads constitute the rescue
force. Each squad contains one certified
EMT and one current trainee, each of
whom carries a pager during his or her
two-day shift approximately once a
month. One of the four EMT officers al-
ways carries a walkie-talkie, ensuring
that there are three members on call at
any time.

Many students became interested in
the rescue squad because of its valuable
on-the-job medical experience. Sopho-
more Olivier van Dierdonck was at-
tracted to “the exposure to hospitals and
injuries.”

But Roddey, while admitting the pro-
gram's lure for pre-med majors, said that
only two of the rescue squad’s four offi-
cers are pre-med majors. “ICs not a pre-
med thing at all,” he said.

Storage

continued from page |

proximately $9 500 ($250 per sample) to
determine if the transformers contain
PCB.

Gibson stressed that even if PCB is
discovered in some of the leaking trans-
formers, health risks would be minimal
because the transformers are located in
an unpopulated area and are not near any
running water.

PCB is classified as toxic waste by
the Federal Government and presents a
greater danger to humans and the envi-
ronment than do hazardous wastes.

Transformers that contain PCB must
be properly labelled and stored only with
permission from the EPA.

In the 1960s numerous studies from
Japan, the United States, Norway, and

into program
years

TAX FREE benefits

re aS

South Africa revealed PCB’s high toxic-
ity. PCB production was banned in the
U.S. in 1979.

PCB is a very stable compound, last-
ing up to 70 years, It has been found to
cause skin lesions, blindness, hearing
loss, jaundice, abdominal pains,
chlorachne, and swelling of the joints in
humans. RCB has been shown to cause
reproductive failure, birth defects, liver
damage, carcinogenesis, gastric disor-
ders, and tumors in laboratory animals.

PCB accumulates in animal fat tis-
sues and become more concentrated in
creatures at the top of the food chain.

Reported by Jeff Mann and David Re-
snik.

JUNIORS AND SENIORS

Roddey said he joined the EMTs be-
cause “I hate to feel helpless in a situation
where something needs to be done.” He
advised Davidson students to “feel free
to call in any minor emergency situation
because that’s what we're here for,” he
said.

If such a situation occurs, he said,
someone should immediately call the in-
firmary at 892-3031 and report the vic-
tim’s name, location, and type of injury.
The person should then stay with the in-
jured party until the rescue squad arrives.

Plott Scholarship

continued from page |

same goals.

According to Welsh, “The problems
in the Fall have been ironed out. They re-
sulted mainly from a lack of communica-
tion. Everyone now will have plenty of
time to express their ideas. I think it was
the hurry, the push that caused a lot of
unnecessary anxiety.”

Junior Laura McDonald was named
the first Plott scholar this past summer.
Welsh said the committee will probably
not name another scholarship recipient
until the 1985-86 festival. The commit-
tee might select another recipient “if a
student comes to Davidson [who is] the
caliber of a Plott scholar,” Welsh said.

Robinson said he favors the delay be-
cause the longer lead time will allow
more careful preparation. He sees the de-
cision as a recognition of the complexity

of the program. Robinson was one of the
primary designers of the scholarship in-
tended to combine the benefits of a lib-
eral arts education with misical training.
Robinson graduated from Davidson with
an English major, and currently is princi-
pal oboist with the New York Philhar-
monic.

“I regret that it got unpleasant,”
Robinson said. “What seemed self-evi-
dent to me was not shared by others at the
College. I think its success depends on
our compromises.” Fle also said that the
selection of a new president might affect
the program. “That decision might have
some bearing. That is why I'm glad
we're waiting,” he said.

This year’s Plott festival is scheduled
for April 6.

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS at Camp Sea Gull (boys) and Camp
Seafarer (girls). Serving as a camp counselor is a challenging and
rewarding opportunity to work with young people, ages 7-16.

Sea Gull and Seafarer are health and character development
camps located on the coast of North Carolina and feature sailing,
motorboating, and seamanship, plus many usual camping ac-
tivities including a wide variety of major sports. Qualifications
include a genuine interests in young people, ability to instruct in
one phase of the camps’ programs, and excellent references. For
further information and application, please write a brief resume
of training and experience in area(s) skilled to Don Cheek, Direc-
tor, Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North

Carolina 27605. .

EARN OVER $1000.00 PER MONTH

lf you are a math, physics, chemistry or engineering
major with a “B” average or better, earn over $1000.00
permonth through your junior and senior years. . . sum-
mers included! The Navy’s NUPOC (Nuclear Propulsion
Officer) Collegiate Program is looking for qualified indi-
viduals. Other benefits include:

*** $3000.00 cash bonus immediately upon acceptance

*** $22,000 starting salary — $40,000 after just four

*** FREE Medical/Dental care and many other other

*** 30 days PAID antiual vacation
*** 1 year graduate level training _.

7

*** Valuable engineering experience

*** Education benefits

*** Job security with fast promotions

If you're interested in finding out more, see the Navy
Officer Programs Team, they'll be on campus 31 January
—.2 February at the Placement Office. If you can’t make it,
send your resume or transcripts to:

ROY SARVIS
U.S. NAVY OFFICER PROGRAMS
1001 Navaho Dr.
; Raleigh, NC 27609
re Or call 1-800-662-7231
» 9a.m.-3 p.m. MON - THURS

pepe tne

