8 Friday, September 28, 1984/The Davidsonian —

SPORTS

By BOYD BLACKBURN

The Davidson soccer team had a
mediocre week as it lost to N.C. State 5—
0 in Raleigh and beat a weak Guilford
team 3-1 here on Tuesday.

Against N. C. State, Davidson was
down 3-0 at the half and never led in the
game. State is undefeated this year and is
what Davidson Coach Charlie Slagle
called, “the most talented team we play
this year.” They are undefeated and cur-

dg ha
as & iy: Pee

Scenes from this week’s soccer games

Soccer Team Wins, Loses During Lackluster Week

rently ranked 3rd in the South.

The Wildcats had a few chances to
score, including a 40-yard shot by junior
Bill Coxhead that grazed over the cross
bar. That shot would have tied the game
at 1-1, but such chances were few and far
between. On the other side of the field,
the State forwards were giving the
Davidson fullbacks more than they could
handle.

Davidson defeated Guilford Mon-
day, pulling the game out in the last few

minutes after it was tied 1-1 for almost
all of the second half.

With five minutes left, freshman
Craig Mattison threw the ball into the net
from the sideline. His throw-ins had been
creating trouble for Guilford in the sec-
ond half, but nobody expected one to go
in the goal by itself. Two minutes later
Mattison scored again.

Sophomore goalie Jim Kelly drop-
kicked a long ball which sophomore
Steve Stith nudged to junior forward

Rockv Kmeicik

Tony Cabrales. Cabrales took it to the
endline an rolled it past the goalie to Mat-
tison, who pushed the ball into the open
net.

It was a nice finish to an otherwise
poor game. Davidson had taken many
shots but had scored just once on a shot
by junior Wallis Goodman.

Davidson's record now stands at 2—
4-1. Next week conference games start,
with games at V. M. I. and Appalachian
State.

Cats Winless So Far Aiter Loss To Newberry

By SCOTT HUIE

The Wildcats may have the dubious
distinction of going winless this season,
und the prospects for such a finish are
disheartening. But in the aftermath of
last Saturday's 28-14 loss to Newberry,
one has to wonder.

With a schedule that almost weekly
pits Davidson against a slew of Goliaths,
the Wildcats can ill afford losing those
rare games where the odds are in their
favor, or at least close to it. Two of those
“very winnable” games are in the past,
needless to say as losses: this one and last
week's loss to Guilford. Two more lurk
ahead, Wofford and Catawba, but the
numbers are quickly diminishing.

About the game, Coach Ed Farrell
said, “I’m very disappointed because our
material is comparable to their’s, so if we
play well we win. Once again, the culprit
was breakdowns, mostly mental. Statis-
tically, it was an even game. So if you
take away their big plays, it was any-
body’s game.”

But this one belonged to Newberry,
especially after their first two posses-
sions. Both ended in touchdowns and on
both the dreaded halfback pass did the
Cats in..The first was a 45-yard strike
which came on the fifth play of the game.
That set up a nifty 20-yard touchdown
jaunt by Newberry’s tailback.

The Cats apparently did not learn
their lesson, so the Indians came back the
next time they got the ball. Same play,

- Davidson players try to breach the Newberry defense

different actors, same results, only better
— a 65-yard halfback pass for a
touchdown. Newberry led 14-0.

The lead was upped to 21 on New-
berry’s next possession in the long grind-
it-out fashion, a 13-play 73-yard drive.

_ The Cats responded with their own
long drive before halftime. Backup QB

Steve Bradley entered the game and
drove the team 70 yards, a drive capped
off by fullback Horace Manor’s one-yard
touchdown run.

Playing catch-up is not the brand of
football Farrell relishes, and his Cats
failed at it in the second half. Trying to
gain a swing of momentum, Bradley was

Rocky Kmeicik

driving the Cats in the third quarter. A
miscued pass, however, found an Indian
linebacker, who returned the intercep-
tion 53 yards for a score.

Davidson made a fourth-quarter run
which started in impressive fashion.
Tailback David Turner split two defen-
ders deep in Newberry territory and
caught a spectacular pass from Bradley.
That put the Cats on the five, from where
Bradley teamed with tight end Scotty
Brendle for the touchdown pass. But that
ended the scoring.

Defensively, linebacker = Micah
Downing stole the show with 12 tackles.
The offense provided a balanced attack,
keyed perhaps by Bradley’s 116 yards of
passing.

For those who thought Newberry was
tough, as the saying goes, you ain’t seen
nothing yet. Pennsylvania (1-0) is
Davidson’s opponent tomorrow. The
teams will clash in 60,000-seat Franklin
Field in Philadelphia on astroturf under
the night lights.

When Davidson scheduled this game
five years ago, Penn rested securely at
the bottom of the Ivy League. For the last
two years, however, they have shared the
league championship. Last week, they
clobbered highly respected Dartmouth
55-24, rolling up 538 yards of offense.

“Pennsylvania is a formidable Oppo-
nent,” Farrell said.

Commented Penn coach Jerry
Berndt, “Davidson is our home opener
and we cannot afford a letdown.”
