10 Friday, November 2, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Production Manager
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor Will Thomason, Advertising Manager

Lock Your Doors

Last fall campus security arrested a man carrying a concealed
weapon who claimed to be looking for a student who was having an affair
with his wife.

Last winter, Davidson seniors Malcolm Campbell and Chris Gunn
stopped a man from entering Harding House. The man made sexually
suggestive comments to Campbell and Gunn about the women living
there.

Last spring, a town resident drew a knife on a student who asked him
to leave a closed party. He also talked of killing all the members of a cer-
tain fraternity.

During Wednesday night and Thursday morning, intruders roamed
freely through one of our dormitories. Almost an hour passed before any-
one reported the suspicious characters, even though the intruders walked
into darkened rooms and attempted to gain entry into rooms where the re-
sidents were awake.

This incident must not engender a sense of paranoia about outsiders.
It must, however, as previous incidents should have done, bring out a
sense of savvy and prudent precaution among students. It is naive to ex-
pect a burglar intent on collecting a stereo component or some jewelry to
consider the implications of breaking the Honor Code. Precautions such
as locked doors and reporting suspicious characters to security are neces-
sary; easy access to others’ rooms for honor-bound students means easy
access for non-students as well.

This incident must also cause Davidson to review its security set-up
as well. The new dispatch system worked well, but only after a threat had
become apparent. Though locked dorms or extensive security measures

(such as intercoms to page students who have visitors) are unnecessary
and undesireable, a combination of institutional changes and increased
student awareness can go a long way toward solving the problems.

More than one security officer should be on duty at a time. This
would allow more efficient and helpful patroling of the campus, and
would make response time even better than it was yesterday morning.

Reactivation of the SGA Security Committee is also necessary. Stu-
dents concerned about campus security need a forum in which to place
their concerns before the administration.

The administration, too, needs to look into the increasing security
problems to determine what actions, consistent with the atmosphere of
the College, it can take.

For the time being, however, students can guard their own safety by
following rules of common sense.

Good Ideas

Among its other business, the SGA Senate on Tuesday discussed two
new ideas worthy of further consideration. The first concerned the re-
lationship of SGA advisory boards and committees to the Senate as a
whole. The second involved publishing senators’ votes. Both entail
small but needed changes in the way the Senate does business.

Senator Anne Miano suggested that the Senate monitor its sundry
committees and advisory boards more closely. As it stands now, SGA
committees are only bound to make one yearly report to the Senate Exec-
utive Committee.

The Senate, however, conducts the major portion of its business,
through its committees; it serves mainly to ensure the committees’ more
in-depth studies meet the needs of the students. Too often, the Senate.
forgets about its option — its duty — to review, and change, if neces-
sary, Committee actions.

Any step which makes Senate committees more accountable to the
students through the Senate deserves a hearing.

The recording of senators’ roll call votes is also a procedural correc-
tion long overdue, as Warren Gould noted. In recent memory, the Mi-
nutes has reported only the nature and the outcomes of Senate discus-
sions, not arguments presented or voting records. No reason exists why
students should not know how their elected representatives have repre-
sented them.

We encourage senators to study these matters closely and to act posi-
tively on them.

Ross Holt, Editor

Met iw
rps , { J ) i
Yeti Nh
(if LL ah hands K Oe pili
Le’s Halloween,
turkey —

Tritk or Treat /

ReseCloudt> 1/2 (#4

Letters

-—— Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian ‘“Opin-
ions” section is the only forum
on campus for extended com-
mentary on pertinent issues. We
will print opinions articles on
any subject of general interest
we receive from the campus
community.

We
guidelines:

1) We require that all arti-
cles be in our hands at 7 p.m.
Monday.

2) We accept typed articles
and those written legibly, dou-
ble-spaced.

3) We require that opinions
be signed. We will print un-

adhere to these

signed articles only if compel-
ling reason exists for withhold-
ing the author’s name, and the
author is known to either the
editor or executive editor.

4) We will not edit opinions
for style or content but we re-
serve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will in-
form the author of substantial
changes.

5) Since space for Opinions
articles is limited, we reserve
the right to select artilces from
those we receive for publica-
tion. We will attempt to print
any article we withhold from
publication for space reasons
the next week.

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters from its readers. We try
to print all letters of general in-
terest, but we adhere to these
four guidelines:

1) We require that letters be
in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2) We require that letters be
neatly typed.

3) We require that letters be
signed and include the author’s

‘phone number and address. If

Letters Policy

you have a compelling reason
for us to withhold your name,
explain your situation to the

r editors.

4) We reserve the right not
to print letters that a)function as
advertisements; b)contain in-
nuendo, off-color slurs, or in-
side jokes; c)represent a view-
point very similar to that ex-
pressed in other letters printed
on the same topic.

