Friday, September 21, 1984/The Davidsonian 15

OPINIONS

Stovall’s Appeals Broaden Race Dichotomy

- Barry Blledge

I would like to address what I perceive as harmful
and unfair attitudes taken in Janet Stovall’s opinions arti-
cle in last week’s paper. Early in her article, Janet tells
the white person, “. . . you must admit that it [inequal-
ity] still exists, that your ancestors brought it into being,
and that it is your responsibility to end it.” I would ask
the question: Are we, the whites, responsible for in-
equality primarily because our white ancestors were the
men who brought it into being, or rather because we are
humans and feel that inequality is bad? I would agree
with the latter, although I feel the former reason is im-
plied in Janet’s article.

Her command, “. . . you [the whites] should not
decry your slaveowning patriarchs, lest you also turn
deaf ears ... . to your responsibility to right their legacy
of wrong . . .” seems to imply a belief in inherited guilt.
Just as I feel that it is wrong to blame the German youth
for the sins of Hitler or the Japanese-Americans for Pear!
Harbor, so do I feel that it is wrong to blame young
whites for slavery. A more human and compassionate
approach would be a collective embrace of the responsi-
bility for the sins of all our forefathers, irrespective of
their race or nationality.

Specifically, we should all feel responsible for, or at
least implicated in, the horror of slavery (same goes for
the concentration camps) insofar as we are all human and
we recognize our individual capacity for evil. This :s sot
to dodge white responsibility; Janet’s observation that
“the burden of responsibility rests on those in leadership
and with those who control the resources” is good. But
her other approach, namely the blaming of groups or
races for their individual histories, does little to encour-
age a compassionate and egalitarian respect for our fel-
low man.

In a similar vein, Janet’s repeated use of the pro-
nouns “we” (the blacks) and “you” (the whites) does lit-
tle to bridge the dichotomy within us (the blacks and the
whites). Further, such statements as “by virtue of your
color . . .” and “We [the blacks] would not care how
you [the whites] feel if” (and I paraphrase) your feelings
did not directly affect us (the blacks) and especially the
unnecessary “. . . surprise! — some of us [the blacks]
just don’t like you [the whites]” betray the same kinds of
attitudes that Janet cries out against in whites. For the
sake of better race relations, I would sincerely discour-
age the use of such statements in the future.

Lastly, I would like to address Janet’s demands of
the whites at Davidson, namely that we the whites are re-
sponsible for making Davidson a better place for blacks.
Specifically, she asks that whites approach blacks and
ask them about their feelings and frustrations. This idea
appeals to me in an abstract sense (and, indeed, I hope I

unrealistic and egotistical, for example, to demand that
everyone commit him or herself to wiping out pornog-
raphy. Further, to approach black people by virtue of
their being black in order to ask them questions about
being black strikes me as an example of what we're try-
ing to get away from. In other words, it would seem to
me as if I were “recruiting” blacks, that the most impor-
tant thing bringing us together was our color difference.

In closing, I would like to address Janet specifically
in asserting that all whites who seem complacent or at
best oblivious to the racial problem are not necessarily
foes of the cause. Just because some white person
doesn’t approach you and ask you questions doesn’t
mean that person is unsympathetic, some may be shy —
others (and I repeat an earlier point) may have interests
elsewhere.

May I suggest that trying not to be prejudiced is in
and of itself a big step? I personally pledge to try to elim-

Just as I feel that it is wrong to blame the German youth for the
sins of Hitler or the Japanese-American for Pearl Harbor, so do I
feel that it is wrong to blame young whites for slavery.

will be interested enough to ask my friends that do hap-
pen to be blacks), but to demand this from all whites as
Janet seems to do is unrealistic and unfair. Unrealistic
because we are all (blacks and whites) finite creatures
with finite amounts of time and limited interests.

To demand the above is as if to say that the worthi-
ness of other causes to which we might dedicate our time
(peace, hunger, or education, for instance) are somehow
secondary. Her demands also strike me as unfair in the
sense that they neglect individual interests. It would be

inate all prejudice in my thoughts and actions, yet for the
reasons I outlined above, Janet, I may or may not choose
to follow your advice of coming up to you and asking
you about being black. But please don’t hold that against
me, or against anyone else.

Elledge is a senior mathematics major from Boone,
N.C.

Criticism Of Religion Misrepresents Christianity

Mike Stephens

In his essay on politics and religion, David Resnik
calls attention to the religious rhetoric that has been ban-
tered about by Walter Mondale and Reagan Reagan
since early on in the Presidential election campaign.
While he makes a very valid point concerning the appar-
ent connection between religion and politics, and ques-
tions the necessity of this alliance (specifically concern-
ing Ronald Reagan’s justification of the use of religious
arguments in his campaign), he fails to make the distinc-
tion between religion and Christianity. While I will not
defend or condemn Mr. Reagan’s use of religious
ideologies in his campaign, I would like to present my
view of the proper role of Christianity in political mat-
ters.

To begin, I will make a distinction between the terms
religion and Christianity. Religion is the outward, or-
ganized expression of a particular belief or principle. In
this country, these principles are generally said to be
based on a Christian heritage. Christianity is a personal
belief in the life and teachings of Jesus Christ. Often
Religion and Christianity have no connection what-
soever. The rhetoric being passed about in this election
campaign is decidedly religous, but as to its Christian
nature, only the candidates themselves know.

Politics has long been presented in terms of enforced
morality. The basic moral fiber of a society is reflected
in its political system. As stated by Mr. Resnik, the

‘ political morality of the United States reflects the basic
moral ideologies of the Christian faith; our political sys-
tem and the accepted outward expression of Christian-
ity, that is religion, are necessarily and inseperably
joined.

Hence religion and politics must remain associated
unless we revert to a Machiavellian system of political
morality based on tennants other than those of American
society. To connect Christianity and politics, however,

is much a different matter. Christianity is a personal be-
lief of an individual and is not dictated by the moral or re-
ligous nature of society. It is therefore connected with
political matters in an individual manner.

A statement of a church leader concerning the stance
of the church as well as a statement of a political figure,
such as Mr. Reagan, concerning the nation’s position on
a moral concer represents religion — or at least religi-
ous rhetoric. The statement of an individual concerning
his or her decision based on personal Christian faith in a
political matter is a statement of Christianity.

For the Christian, the connection between politics
and Christianity lies in the personal decision made by the
individual to connect the two. It is not impossible to as-
sociate Christianity and politics; it is, however, impossi-
ble for them to be connected in a realm larger than that of
a decision made by a single person. The factors contrib-
uting to this decision may or may not be influenced by
religous or political figures, but the decision is not im-
plicitly regulated by either.

When the media responds to a political action taken
by a religious group it often makes the same mistake that
Mr. Resnik makes. The fact that Jerry Fallwell is a
“Born-Again Christian” influences his political manuv-
ering only in a way personal to Jerry Fallwell. The fact
that he is the head of a religious organization is the
reason he is able to exist as a political entity. Any state-
ment he makes reflects only the ideals accepted by Mr.
Fallwell personally and his religious organization. It
does not in any way bind the consciences of the members
of his organization, who are free to agree or disagree
with Mr. Fallwell personally or with the group he repre-
sents.

When a group of “Born-Again Christians” is pur-
ported to carry out an act, the error of confusing a religi-
ous group which espouses Christian doctrines and a
group of individuals united by a common will occurs.
The Christian is responsible for his political stance only
to him- or herself and to his or her God. When he or she
decides to take part in a political event, it is a decision
made in this context.

The use of religious rhetoric in political campaigning
can reflect both religious and Christian aspects. For ex-
ample: if Mr. Reagan states that due to his own personal
Christian beliefs he is in favor of prayer in public schools
and against abortion, he is making a statement qualify-
ing an aspect of his Christianity. His assertion allows the
voter to see a facet of his personal being. When he states
that due to the nature of the foundation of the United
States as a Christian nation, the institution of prayer in
public schools and the abolition of abortion should be
carried out, he is making a statement of a religious na-
ture, and does not necessarily reflect in it his own per-
sonal beliefs.

By the same token, Jerry Fallwell can make the same
statements as the head of the Moral Majority to the same
effect. Confusing Christianity and religion is common
and should be avoided. A statement made by a “religous
leader” should be exactly that and does not indicate that
all ‘“Born-Again Christians” support any single policy.
Religious leaders and politicians are equally guilty of
abusing Christianity for political or religious motives.
Mr. Resnik, also, is guilty of associating the term
“Christian” with statements of religious rhetoric.

It would be grand if statements of religion necessar-
ily reflected the beliefs of Christianity, but it is a simple
fact that they do not. This misrepresentation is mainly
due to the decline of Christian values in religious institu-
tions. Individual Christians have the right as well as the
responsibilty to learn and decide for themselves how
they should respond to political situations. To do less is
to deprive themselves of an aspect of their Christianity
Religious rhetoriticians making statements which in no
way reflect aspects of their individual Christianity make
this process difficult, but at the same time they. mandate
it.

Just as a point of interest: The term “Born Again”
was coined by no less a religious figure than Jesus of
Nazareth.

Stephens is a sophomore from Roswell, Ga., and is
Opinions editor of The Davidsonian. ‘

(conunued on page 5)
