10 Friday, February 3, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ann Meador. Editor David Resnik. Executive Editor

Ross Holt. Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey. Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Griffith Street

When one first hears the rumors concerning Griffith Street Proper-
ties, it seems that a monolithic alliance between big business and a pow-
erful private college has engaged in a plot to ursurp property at the ex-
pense of small-town landowners. It seems paternalistic and downright
nefarious, as if the corporation and the College are trying to transplant
the residents — mostly black and lower income — to hide them away
from the white, affluent College visitors.

This may not be the case. The men behind Griffith Street Properties
seem to have a genuine concern for the College and for Griffith Street re-
sidents. In the cases where homeowners have been relocated, they have
been put in a better position than before. Many of the houses on Griffith
Street are substandard or very near it. Still, the first appearances are what
the residents have perceived. Indeed, it seems unlikely that is all they
have been given to perceive.

The situation would be divisive anywhere, but in Davidson it is espe-
cially so. A deep division has always existed between blacks and whites
in Davidson, and between upper and lower income. Despite the fact that
local blacks are gaining more representation in town government, ten-
sion still exists.

A housing shortage also exists in town; one community member
commented that at least eight people would be willing to purchase any
house that goes on the market. It doesn’t take an economics whiz to
realize that this drives prices up, undoubtedly out of the range of the
poorer residents’ incomes.

Thus any large-scale attempt to purchase land can easily be perceived
as an attempt to force the less affluent members of the community into a
smaller and smaller area. Because of housing shortages, such an attempt
might force people out of Davidson, wherétheir roots are, in to the outly-
ing areas of the county.

It is incumbent upon the Griffith Street corporation and the College,
then, to demonstrate to the community (not just to the Griffith Street resi-
dents) that their intent is not sinister. The project must be coordinated
with the town and town planners. Despite any good intentions on the part
of the corporation and the College, and any help they offer individual re-
sidents, rumors can sink the plan once and for all and further increase
tensions in the town.

The project’s merit cannot be decided by considering only the inter-
ests of the College. It is a decision that must include the full participation
of the town and the members of the community. Only when the lines of
communication are open among every intefested party can appearances
be dispelled and the potential benefit or danger to the community be re-
vealed.

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson,
NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 peryear for first class

Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee. Assistant News Editor: Boyd Blackburn. Roxanna Guilford. Rand
Hartsell, Bob Loper, Wayne Magruder, Frances Palmer; John Ruppenthal, Tom Schilling. Julie
Sternal. Lisa Thomas. David Van Pelt. Elizabeth White. Allison Wills. Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Ida Phillips. Avsistant Arts and Entertainment Editor: Miguel
Abreu. Craig Detweiler. Stephen Mank, Matt Morris. Tim Waples. Andrew Wilson

Sports Staff: Scott Huie. Assistant Sports Editor: Kerry Brown. Steve Byers, Hunter Gourley
Photography Staff: Carroll Overton. Assistant Photography Editor: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael

Dent. Cary! Dawson, Virginia Harris. Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmeicik, Laura McGee, Anderson
Scott. Mike Snell. Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt. Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross. Todd Wiebusch. David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan. Compositors: Lisa Thomas. Debby Williams. Copy Editing: Chris-
tine Jackson

Circulation: David MéCurry. Manager

postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees di~ 7"

OH William, I'd
Jus’ Love to goon
by A Pienc:

Ri Cleadt~ 2/3/74

ae VD
on U ’ fh x
* v2 . y:
oe om Ber. we :
OT, ae.
Naat

So What time you get off at
the Plant 2 Thought maybe we
coulel ge +0 +h’ Gym ) then
hit a tew Bavs.

Letters

Mistakes

To the Editors:

We, the members of the so-called
“Triumvirate,” would like to point out a
few of the mistakes made in Kerry
Brown's Jan. 27 article, titled “Hissam
Contends for Southern Conference
Crown.” This title may be true, but the
conference tournament is not until the
end of the season, and the article is not
about Tom’s preparation for it. The
photograph that accompanied the article
was not of Mike Keeley as labelled, but
of Mike Adams.

Rod Duffee, who was said to have
“corralled an opponent in 3:56” for
Davidson is not even a student at David-
son, but at Furman. Davidson wrestling
may not be nationally ranked, but we are
certainly not “victory starved.” We have
an overall individual match record of 40
wins, 23 lesses, and one tie. At the recent
Washington and Lee Tournament we
placed third out of a strong field of eight
teams. We had two first place winners,
Tom Hissam and John T. Lay; two sec-
ond place winners, John Breidenstine
and Mike Keeley; and two fourth place
winners, Mike Adams and Tom
Cardwell.

While these errors irritate us, that
which was left out of the article makes us
livid. Brown presents a three-man team,
but this is not the case. All the team’s
wrestlers have outstanding high school
records behind them. Freshmen Mike
Adams and John T. Lay are off to a tre-
mendous start. Sophomores Brian Rice
and Taylor Simpson, who were not even
mentioned, both have proven themselves
on the mat this year. Sophomore Tom
Cardwell is a valuable team leader due to
his hard work and experience.

The majority of the team’s leadership
comes not from the “Triumvirate,” but
from Coach Vince Arduini. Arduini has

done a fantastic job directing the team
and deserves much credit.

In the future we hope The Davidso-
nian will get its facts straight and not
mislead its readers and insult the school’s
wrestling team.

Mike Keeley
John D. Breidenstine
Tom Hissam

Excuse

To the Editors:

What was [Sports Editor Steve]
Soud’s excuse for not having a column
last week? It’s not that the readers par-
ticularly miss his inane and most often
obscure comments but we, speaking for
myself at least, would like to know how
he gets away with it. If he told you he was
too busy, he surely was not serious. We
all know that he spends his time lollygag-
ging around the library talking to any
available coed he can find. It’s irrespon-
sibility like this that gives sports jour-
nalism a bad name. You guys shouldn't
let this bum push you around. Stick to
your guns. Make Soud meet the same
deadlines that everyone else must. He's
the sports editor and should set a good
example for the others on the staff. Start-
ing to write the basketball highlights at
11 p.m. on Thursday night is a pitiful ef-
fort for one in suck ®&n important pos
tion, although I must give him credit for
turning those highlights in at all.

Rocky Kmiecik
Editors’ note: Kmiecik is Soud's house-
mate.

Pity The Fool

To the Editors:

This letter is in response to the Jan.
27 article entitled, “What an Experience:
What-a-Burger.” Yes, we agree, it is an
