BE re

“hs

RE RT ES
sorin an <i

Se!

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 1

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, September 14, 1984

Zoning Decision May Put SPE On Campus

Board of Adjustment Denies
SPE’s Use Of Main Street House

By ROSS HOLT

“It may have seemed a blessing in
disguise,” said Sigma Phi Epsilon Presi-
dent Steve MacMillan of a May decision
by the town Board of Adjustment to deny
his off-campus fraternity special use zon-
ing.

The decision means that SPE can no
longer use the residence it owns at 109
North Main Street as a fraternity house.
The Adjustors also voted to allow Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity to continue to
use its Beaty Street house.

The town Board of Commissioners
has granted the fraternity until June 1,
1985 to convert the house to a residential
use or to vacate the premises. SPE mem-

bers tentatively plan to return to Patter-
son Court after the town’s deadline (see
accompanying story).

According to board chairperson Bob
Currie, the adjustors listened to SPE
members, alumni, and Main Street resi-
dents at a well-attended hearing. Currie
said the adjustors passed two resolutions
after the hearing. The first stated that the
fraternity failed to meet the requirements
of section S-E of the zoning ordinances,
Currie said. The second requested the
town board allow the fraternity a
“reasonable time to end the use,” he said.

Section 5-E sets up guidelines the ad-
justors must use to allow extensions on

continued on page 6

These denizens of Belk practice the time honored freshman ritual om
pulling shirts up over faces and stuffing a hallmate into the trash can.
For more first-year rituals, see page 10.

Christian Harberts

_ Search Underway
For Athletic Director

By VIRGINIA BROADDUS

A search committee is looking for a
full-time athletic director for the college.
Since 1981, head football coach Ed Far-
rell has held the position of acting direc-
tor, while continuing to coach football.
In his letter of appointment from the col-
lege, Farrell said, it was made clear to
him that he could resign as athletic direc-
tor at any time that he felt the dual posi-
tion compromised either his coaching
position or the school’s athletic program.

According to Farrell, with the in-
creasing pressure from the Southern
Conference, the desire to have the bas-
ketball team return to prominence in the
N.C.A.A. play-offs, and the develop-

ment of the new athletic complex, it
seemed appropriate to divide the respon-
sibilities. He said this would give the
new director the opportunity to coordi-
nate all sports, without having additional
coaching responsibilities.

Mathematies professor J.B. Stroud,
chairman of the committee, outlined the
kind of director the committee is seek-
ing. Such a person, Stroud said, should
have “outstanding qualities, experience
as a full-time director of athletics, and
extensive experience with the Division I
Program of the NCAA.” Stroud said the
search would be a “formidable task.”

Rick Love, assistant to President

continued on page 6

Sig-Ep Members Express Desire
To Move Back To Patterson Court

By ROSS HOLT

Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity mem-
bers are considering returning to Patter-
son Court next year after remaining off-
campus 13 years. The contemplatec
move follows a May vote by the town
Board of Advisors that denied the SPE
house, located on North Main Street,
special use zoning.

Though the fraternity is looking at
other options, SPE President Steve Mac-
Millan said returning to the Court was the
most likely. ‘““We’ve got a real good op-
portunity to move back on campus,” he
sail. “The College is greeting us
\ ly,” and, he added, has offered

iable terms.”

Other options include relocating
fraternity quarters in a compatibly zoned
area, MacMillan said. Last summer, a
letter from the fraternity’s alumni board
to SPE Alumni explored the possibility
of raising funds for a new off-campus
house.

MacMillan noted, however, a desire
among fraternity members, especially
underclassmen, to “make a more positive
contribution to the campus.”

MacMillan said fraternity members
will continue to eat in the Commons after
moving to the court, using the former
ETC facility as a social house.

SPE can abide by the self-selection

continued on page 6

Kuykendall Appoints
Project ’87 Committee

By ROXANNA GUILFORD

President John Kuykendall has ap-
pointed an 18-member committee to
examine Project '87 and present a report
containing its conclusions and recom-
mendations.

The committee, headed by Dean of
Admissions John Griffith and mathema-
tics Professor Bruce Jackson, will have
representatives from various areas of the
college’s life. According to the presi-
dent’s office, members of the committee
will be selected by next week.

Griffith plans to hold the committee's

first meeting sometime next week. They
will continue to meet throughout the
term, submitting their report on or before
Nov. 30.

At this point, the committee has no
specific goals or plans. The biggest job
now, according to Griffith, is establish-
ing the committee's groundwork. Both
he and R.A.C.E. representative Andrew
Yon also expressed a need to look
beyond Davidson for ideas. “We need to
understand what has gone on outside of
Davidson . . . so we aren’t reinventing

continued on page 7

Dean Hires Counselor
Following Drug Survey

By LEE WHITE

The Dean of Students office has hired
a part-time drug counselor as a result of a
survey conducted by Political Science
Professor Thomas Kazee’s Public Opin-
ion class last spring. Terry suggested to
Kazee that his class conduct a survey on
student attitudes toward drug use. The
survey showed a need for a drug coun-
selor here on campus.

‘Campbell Peery, a drug rehabilita-
tion counselor from Charlotte will spend
one night a week on campus. With an ap-
proach based on group therapy, Peery
will begin visiting campus in the next
few weeks, according to Terry. A date
has not been set.

Terry sees Peery’s role as primarily
educational. Terry said Peery would
work with the Dean’s office only on
cases referred for counseling by the
Dean. Peery will keep cases in which stu-
dents voluntarily seek help confidential.

Terry outlined other actions the
Deans’ office plans to take in a letter he
sent to parents of students this summer.

Dr. Thomas Kazee

“It is my desire to see us attack this
problem without apology. We hope none
of you were naive enough to believe that
Davidson was so far removed from our
society that drugs did not exist here. | am
glad the problem is no worse.

“These are the steps we intend to

continued on page 7
