Friday, February 3, 1984/The Davidsonian 9

OPINIONS

_ Statement Should Be Preached, Not Practiced

David Resnik

Tam writing in response to an opinions article written
by Dick Lee which appeared in the Jan. 20 Davidsonian.
Lee defends a sectarian chapel hour on the grounds that it
will help the school live up to its Statement of Purpose as
defined in the Preamble of the College Constitution. Lee
would like to see “more consistency between the State-
ment of Purpose and the practice of it.” Toward the end
of his article he remarks that he views “the writers of the
Statement of Purpose desiring that Davidson College be
analogous to the Church of Ephesus.”

The opinions that Lee expressed, though written
with good intent, have dangerous implications. The
view he puts forth would eventually lead to the very in-
stitutionalized repression that Davidson must avoid. The
Statement of Purpose should not be followed word for
word; it was meant to be preached, not practised.

Just look at this glaring passage from the Statement
of Purpose:

Davidson recognizes God as the source

of all truth. As a college committed to the

historic Christian faith, it sees Jesus

Christ as the central fact of history, giv-

ing purpose, order and value to the whole

life.
How could any modern liberal arts college live up to
these words? If the school sincerely believes this dogma,
then what’s the point in teaching Buddhism, Hinduism,
or world religions? What's the point in teaching quan-
tum physics, metaethics, or linear algebra, for that mat-
ter? You might as well turn Davidson into a giant Sunday
school and order a new shipment of Bibles.

History will not forget the last time Davidson's
Statement of Purpose interfered with its academics. It
was April 1977. President Emeritus Samuel Spencer re-
scinded a job offer to a Jewish political science professor
because he indicated his objections to the College's pol-
icy of hiring based on non-academic standards like
Christian commitment. The professor, Ronald Linden,
had been unanimously approved by the political science
department out of a field of 190 applicants. Over 300
students and 20 professors boycotted Spring Convoca-
tion in protest of Spencer’s decision.

The American Association of University Professors
found out about the decision. Soon the story made na-
tional headlines. He, Charlotte Observer, The
Washington Post, The New York Times, The Philadel-
phia Enquirer, and NBC news covered the story. But
this was not the kind of publicity that one would as-
sociate with Zubin Mehta or the basketball team. This
was the kind of publicity that made Hitler famous — the
press perceived the decision as a clear-cut case of anti-
Semitism.

As a result of this controversy, the College moder-

ated its position on the Christian commitment of faculty
members. According to Davidson’s current Trustee By:
Laws, the President may recommend for appointment
Christian men and women as well as those who can
‘work with respect for the Christian tradition even if
hey cannot conscientiously join it, and who can live in
1armony with the purpose and policies of the College as
et forth in the Davidson Constitution.” The Christian
‘ommitment requirement used to be even more strin-
ent, the original By-Laws required that the College hire
mnly Christian scholars.

Obviously, the chapel hour will never make the na-
onal news. But Linden case shows how Davidson has
ad to set limits on the practice of its Christian ideals.
‘hristian commitment is important, but not to the exclu-

sion of academics.

I agree with Lee’s desire to unite the community, and
I feel that the chapel hour would be a fine “tool for com-
munity building.” ButIdo not agree his desire to make
the chapel hour sectarian. In the last paragraph of his ar-
ticle Lee makes the following conditional claim: “If
Davidson College wishes to remain true to its Statement
of Purpose, the chapel hour need be sectarian.” But a
strict reading of the Statement of Purpose would be inap-
propriate in this case. As history reminds us, the College
must sometimes sacrifice its Christian ideals.

A sectarian chapel hour would not unite the commu-
nity because it would exclude those that cannot worship
as Protestants. If the chapel hour is to unite us at all, it
must be open to all students. I would favor a chapel hour

that acts as a forum for the free discussion of religion
rather than one that caters to any particular sect. The
Davidson Christian Fellowship has failed to unite the
school, in part because of its spiritual closed-minded-
ness.

Davidson's founders may have intended the school
to resemble the church of Ephesus, but this is no excuse
to revert to the past. The world has changed a great deal
since 1837, and so has Davidson. As a practical guide
for administrative decisions, the Statement of Purpose is
an outmoded relic. But as an outline of Christian ideals,
it is still useful.

Resnik is a junior philosophy major from Chapel Hill,
N.C, and is Executive Editor of The Davidsonian.

A Deficiency In Fairness

David McGee

Whenever someone starts talking about capital
punishment, I always recall the stand columnist James
Kilpatrick took several years ago. In one of his columns
he admitted that he had seen the light and now favored
capital punishment. His conversation had resulted from
an experience in a car-park in a busy city. A hardened
criminal of some sort — raised in a depraved environ-
ment no doubt — approached Kilpatrick and asked him,
at gun-point, for his wallet and watch. Outraged, Kilpat-
rick wanted fair compensation. His assailant, though
never caught, should receive nothing less than the elec-
tric chair, Kilpatrick declared.

Kilpatrick’s almost humorous account of why he

Often appeals supporting capital
punishment result from pent-up

anger toward the crime itself

and the system of justice

created to deal with it

s

fer

supports capital punishment points toward the reasening
of many who favor it. Often appeals supporting capital
punishment result from pent-up anger toward the crime
itself and the system of justice created to deal with it.
Steve Shriver’s article “Simple Retribution” The David-
sonian, Jan. 20) is a good example. Shriver states: “If a
man murders, he should know that his fate will be execu-
tion, not two years and time off for good behavior. If a
man violently rapes a woman, then he ought to realize
that he will suffer death at the hands of the society he has
offended.” (Shriver also says that violent crimes should
be punished with the severity of the crime. Is he suggest-
ing that rapists — as a part of their punishment — should

in turn be raped? Probably not. But isn't that what the
rationale for “simple retribution” does with capital
punishment?)

If capital punishment serves as society's punching
bag for its frustration, then there is a real danger here.
The aftermath of the killings of 25 black children in At-
lanta four years ago show how easily we appease our
feelings of anger towards murder. The intense anxiety so
prevalent in the several months the investigation drag-
ged on disappeared immediately when Wayne Williams
was arrested and charged in connection with the killings.
Although he was convicted of only two of the murders,
his guilt seemed to suffice for all the others. Thus what
we think and feel may not meet some higher standard of
justice.

For those who believe that a murderer receives a
death sentence for what he or she did, consider this ob-
servation. What kind of jury decided the defendant's
guilt or innocence, the quality of their defense, and who
the victim was play a greater part in the defendant's entry
onto death row. During jury selection for a crime which
carries the death penalty, most courts exclude candidates
who oppose capital punishment. Recently, U.S, District
Court Judge James McMillan ruled that such a practice is
unconstitutional because it interferes ‘with with the de-
fendant’s right to a fair trial with an impartial jury. He
cited several studies which show that such a practice pro-
duces juries that are more likely to hand down a death
sentence.

Of the more than | 000 persons on death row. most
come from low income groups and have little education.
James Hutchins, who is scheduled to die in North
Carolina in March, never finished high school. Doubt-
less, low iricomes don’t attract the best lawyers. Race is
another factor. A study in Crime and Delinquency (Oct.
1980) stated that of blacks in Florida, “those who kill
whites are nearly 40 times more likely to be sentenced to
death than those who kill blacks.”

Yet, it is ironic that our courts strive to protect the
rights of a suspected murderer who showed no concern
(an understatement) for the rights of the victim. But for
those on death row, or formerly there. like Earl Charles,
who spent three years on death row before he was proven
innocent, the practice of capital punishment suffers from
a deficiency in fairness which the Bill of Rights guaran-
tees: “No person shall be deprived of life. liberty, or
property. without due process of law.”

McGee is a junior economics major from Winston-
Salem, N.C. and is Assistant News Editor of The David-
sonian.
