6 Friday, February 3, 1984/The Davidsonian

George Curry Brings

Charles Dickens To Davidson

By CHRISTINE JACKSON

Dramatist George Curry gave an
energetic one-man performance of
Charles Dickens’s Great Expectations to
a small but attentive audience Wednes-
day night in Hodson Hall.

With an almost bare stage and in Dic-
kensian costume, Curry created an un-
mistakably Victorian atmosphere in a
faithful representation of one of the
period’s best-known novels. His change-
able voice, facial expressions, and hand
gestures made the characters leap to life.

Curry presented a diverse array of
figures, from the innocent young Pip to
the gruff and startling convict Magwitch.
He portrayed each with perceptive accu-
racy, including the mysterious, feeble
old Miss Havisham.

Among his best scenes are the tender
dialogues between Pip and his brother-
in-law Joe, “always the best of friends.”
At a reception following the program,
Curry said, “Joe’s a difficult character
because he’s such an idiot.” Neverthe-
less, Curry played him expertly.

Curry has performed in Europe, the
United States, and Australia, most re-
cently in Charleston, S.C. Since retiring
two years ago, he has devoted himself
seriously to developing his Great Expec-
tations.

His favorite Dickens character to por-
tray is Marigold in the little-known story
“Dr. Marigold.” “I’m sure of my audi-

George Curry

ence with Marigold,”.Curry said.

His interest in Dickens began with a
visit to the house in which Dickens died
in Kent, England, where Curry grew up.
Curry told of how the novelist enacted
his own stories. He was “‘a tremendous
audience man. He loved being on the
Stage.” The table Curry read from
Wednesday was an exact replica of the
one Dickens used.

Although Dickens commonly per-
formed such favorites as A Christmas
Carol and David Copperfield, he never
presented publicly Great Expectations
because he was unable to keep the perfor-
mance length to two hours. Curry also
limits himself to two hours including an
intermission. He feels that “Great Ex-
pectations is the best book to adapt.”

y,

Looking for a part time job?
Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Applications to be accepted at
United Parcel Service — (Corner of 1-85
and North Graham) in Charlotte

Interviews at the United Parcel Service on:
Wednesday, February 8, 4-6 p.m.

Pay: $8.00 per hour 15 to 20 hours per week

Monday through Friday
Excellent benefits ow

Additional inquiries
or information available
through Careers Office

Equal Opportunity M/F

Sages ~

Peggy Pierotti

By JEFFREY MANN
War Games Directed by John
Badham. Starring Matthew

Broderick, Ally Sheedy, Dabney Col-
eman, and John Wood. Rated PG.
Rating: ***

War Games is the movie that al-
most everybody liked last summer.
Parts of it are good, just like most
people said. It’s a yippee, fun-time
movie about accidental nuclear oblit-
eration, if you can believe that.

Believability is actually one of the
movie’s problems. The story concerns
a lonely whiz kid who stumbles onto a
defense department computer while
mucking around corporate America’s
computer banks looking for some
games to play. Ted Koppel is con-
cemed that something like this might
really happen, and if Ted Koppel’s
worried, so am I.

Not to worry, though. The campus
computer I’m writing this article on is
harder to break into than the one
Matthew Broderick accesses with one
lucky guess. I also doubt that NORAD
allows tour groups of kids and old

ladies to wander through the most sen-

War Games Lacks Ethics

sitive room in the American defense
system, as Wargames would have us
believe.

Technology, however, is the real
star of this film, even though it’s sort
of watered down. The humans give
good performance as well. Dabney
Coleman (TV’s Buffalo Bill, Ameri-
ca’s favorite twit) is perfect as the red-
faced security officer. Newcomers
Broderick and Ally Sheedy as his
girlfriend (sort of) look like newcom-
ers but still pull it off.

What bothers me most about this
film is the attitude taken toward the
main character. He’s a misunderstood
hero who spends his spare time ripping
off AT & T and various computer
companies. There seems to be nothing
wrong with breaking into a computer
file and stealing a program, or using a
black box to steal long-distance calls.
He’s just a mischievous kid who only
goes wrong when he accidentally al-
most blows up the world.

This portrayal doesn’t detract from
enjoying the film, however, and War-
games certainly is worth seeing. It has
a_ thrilling chase scene, pretty
graphics, and you might learn how to
call home for free.

through May 31, 1984.
c 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

May 31, 1984.

¢ 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, inc
onary

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring
. = this MONEY: SaVITT coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
- ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay-any, sales tax dug. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours
i only at participating Hardee's Restaurants

ce aes, MORLS

FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at

participating Hardee’s Restaurants through

Hardeer |

