6 Friday, March 30, 1984/The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Marlette Practices To Harness Artistic Talent

By DAVID RESNIK

Doug Marlette, a nationally syndicated Charlotte
Observer political cartoonist and the creator of the comic
strip “Kudzu,” entertained a crowd over 100 people at
last Wednesday's Open Luncheon. Marlette used an
overhead projector to display his work and told stories
associated with each cartoon.

He began with his political cartoons. His first victim
was President Reagan. Reagan is hard for a cartoonist to
draw, according to Marlette, “because his image doesn’t
correspond to his moral content.”’ Reagan looks nice, but
his policies aren't, he said. Some Presidents are easier to
draw, he added, like Nixon, who “looked like his natural
moral substance.”

From Reagan he moved to former Interior Secretary
James Watt, religious leader Jim Baker, Democratic
presidential candidates Gary Hart, Jesse Jackson and
George McGovern, U.S. Senator Jesse Helms, and rock
musician Boy George. He also presented cartoons about
El Salvador, Lebanon, Grenada, the national debt, the
Equal Rights Amendment, Nuclear Arms, and the Pan
Am Games, and just about every other political issue in
this country.

After presenting some of his political cartoons, Mar-
lette gave some background on his “Kudzu” comic strip.
Marlette based “Kudzu” on his experiences growing up
ina small southern town. For Marlette, growing up was
painful and funny: “adolescence was like one long
banana peel.”

One of his constant problems was being years behind
his peers in development. The primary character of his
strip “Kudzu™ ts a boy who lives with his mother. His
father has deserted them, so Kudzu spends a great deal of
his time looking for a father figure.

Marlette choose the name “Kudzu” for his strip be-
cause it was “kind of catchy.” Kudzu 1s a leafy vine from
the Orient that grows in the south. It grows very fast —
almost a foot a night. Marlette said the character Kudzu
in the strip is like the plant because he grows. Marlette’s
new book of “Kudzu” cartoons is called The Wit and
Wisdom of Reverend Dunn. Dunn is the erstwhile
preacher to whom Kudzu turns for guidance and advice.

‘After his presentation Marlette answered questions.

He said that he does not rely just on inspiration in draw-
ing his cartoons. He has become good at cartooning by

Doug Marlette presents his cartoons

practicing and harnessing his talents. According to Mar-
lette, “Cartooning involves an ability to think symboli-
cally. IUs not logical or linear; it’s more intuitive. But
you can make it happen.”

Marlette said that he has been given a great deal of
freedom in his cartooning careeer, and the people up in
the “enlightened north” are often taken aback by the
amount of freedom he has working on a southern paper.

Marlette confessed that he loves the comic. strip
Doonsbury. He likes author Gary Trudeau's style and
use of dialogue. Doonsbury has had more of an influence
on his political cartoons than on “Kudzu,” he said. Mar-
lette said he was influenced by Al Capp’s “Lil Abner”
and Charles Schultz's Peanuts” while growing up.

People have written a number of letters to the editor
in the Charlotte Observer complaining about the content
of Marlette’s cartoons. Marlette said anyone who dis-
plays himself as does an editorial cartoonist must expect
that some people won't like what he is doing. He does
not “mind if they understand [the cartoon] and disagree”
but he does get upset if “they don’t even understand.”

Marlette doesn’t endorse any particular political

U.S. ATR, SPACE

A | eh
Wan] : |

vue

Orermwed by King Fesneres Syndicate

9-9

ideology; his ideas and values come from his personal
experience. He doesn’t view cartooning as a political in-
strument: “T just do what I do.”

Marlette began his cartooning career by doodling in
class. He drew pictures of Donald Duck and Mickey
Mouse tor his first grade class in exchange for food and
marbles. At the very beginning of his career he saw how
lucrative the business could be

He drew cartoons tor his high school and college
newspapers and worked for the Orlando Sentinal part
time in high school. He graduated trom Florida State
University in 1971 with a major in philosophy and a
minor in art. He wona Neman Fellowship for Journalists
and attended Harvard from 1980— 1981. While at Har-
vard he took a few courses and met many important
people.

Marlette was born in Greensboro, N.C. He spent
some of his childhood in Laurel, Missippi, and went to
high school in Sanford, Florida. He is 34 years old and is
married to Melinda Hartley, a film producer. He lives in
Charlotte and plays five-string banjo and volley ball in
his spare time.

ea
i i 3
| He
eo mie he
ey A 77 an eos
ho > in ~ » Le
I SENN
a 7 | WIRES
| Bae woos

we)

WILL SUFFICE!”

|
i LWT aseSa
1 OLS

“NO, PRINCE ANDREW—A SIMPLE KISS

wor

[OB (era VT

Pees by ng

Mark Wright
