Friday, May 4, 1984/The Davidsonian 15

‘Drawing Battle Lines Threatens Communication

Ian Scully

Russia and America. The battle linés have been
drawn. Rhetoric, arsénals, and misunderstanding grow.
Internationally, diplomatic endeavors are constantly
overshadowed by the stand-off between the opposing
ideologies and cultures. Leaders of both nations con-
tinually reiterate differences. Misunderstanding
andpolarization prevail. Fear is on the rise; will further

accusations and misunderstanding lead to war (hurt and.

loss for all)? Whites and Blacks at Davidson College.

Silence has been the dominant aspect of race rela-
tions at Davidson for years. Solving the issue has taken a
back seat to many other less urgent issues. All this has
changed. In the past months the closet has been opened
and the problem has been in the spotlight, and it can no
longer be disregarded. The BSC has put forth proposals
in an attempt to begin to solve the problem, while out-
spoken members of both races and cultures have voiced
. their opinions through use of a campus-wide podium,
The Davidsonian.

My worry (which I think is shared by many) was that
this issue with its explosive potential could polarize stu-
dents and faculty alike. When I read Anne Elliott’s arti-
cle in last week’s Davidsonian, “Does Davidson Really
Desire Minority Students,” my worry was realized; thus
the reason for this article.

Integration and change within the system has been a
common theme voiced by black leaders since the times
of Thurgood Marshall, Martin Luther King, Jr., and
now Jesse Jackson. These leaders have been respected
by both blacks and whites for channeling their emotions
away from radical rhetoric, which often can lead to vio-
lence and, worse, alienate potential allies, towards pre-
senting the public with a dream of eventual “color-blind-
ness.” Constructive criticism has been used by such
Icaders, yet they have set high ideals, followed them,
and left the doors open to anyone of any color willing to
help.

How then do the Christian words and ideals of King
and Jackson relate to the Davidson populous; one filled

with deafening silence, by Anne’s definition, “your dis-
gusting silence”?

That question will be answered later, but first it
would be appropriate to discuss once more the subject of
silence since it permeates black/ white relations at
Davidson. Where does the silence originate? Anne had a
point when she mentioned that many Davidson students
come from “rich, preppy white” backgrounds. In such
environments it is unlikely that many Davidson students
have ever had prolonged contact with blacks and their
culture; in fact they lived in a culture which often de-
graded itself to racist actions or words.

In short blacks and their culture equalled an un-
known. Once at Davidson whites are confronted with a

- small but ubiquitous number of black students. Blacks

soe ee cuir being an anathema to them. they more
So how does one really begin to
communicate? By accusing
one another? . . . No. The an-
swer is constructive criticism
based on togetherness, integra-
tion.

often than not opt to ignore blacks rather than sitting
down next to them in class, at breakfast, lunch, or dinner
and initiating a conversation. The distance grows and
soon many white students become used to ignoring black
students and recognizing them only with a token “hi.”

So how does one really begin to communicate? How
is progress promoted? By accusing one another? By say-
ing nothing is wrong? No. The answer is constructive
criticism of the system based on togetherness, integra-
tion. Challenge and real victory lie on this path. On such
a road few are hurt and many gain. Blacks need to know
that Davidson needs them. Rich preppies have some-
thing to learn from them and their culture. Blacks’ hum-
ble, caring ways and contributions around this campus
are admired by more than they may suspect.

Next, the question arises, how can the silence be-
come something of the past; in short how should integra-

tion take root? Although the BSC has submitted a propo-
sal it more or less concerns only the administration. Stu-
dents have yet to be challenged. It would seem to me log-
ical for white students to take it upon themselves to
familiarize themselves with blacks and their culture. If
this were to occur whites would certainly learn much,
most specifically about the American black experience
and in turn they would unconciously become “color-
blind.”

For the new DCF I’m proposing a big brother, big
sister program which would involve one Davidson com-
munity child per student and require spending 3—4 hours
weekly with the child, as in watching Davidson athletic
events or a concert on campus. The possibilities are end-
less. Is it too much to expect to be part of the town one
lives in? It probably goes without saying that a student in
New York City would know the city while many stu-
dents and residents of Davidson only know one section
of their town. Have you been across the tracks?

If Davidson is to prove true to its Christian founda-
tions it is time for the administration and students, black
and white, to stand up for righteousness. Forgive me
Anne for harking back on Martin Luther, Jr. , but there is
one question I want to ask you. Would this great man,
one of America’s greatest, ‘be proud of your (righteous?)
words, “White people have this insane idea that black
people want to be like you, with you. We do not. Every-
thing you have ever done to black people has been un-
just, inhumane and disgusting.” Do you really believe
that no whites respect you and your people’s cause? Is
integration too idealistic? If you think idealism will lead
to trouble I'll offer an example of where the loss of
idealism on this issue could lead us.

Verbal attacks and abuses will proliferate and misun-
derstanding will grow. Leaders of both sides will reiter-
ate differences. Polarization will set in. Invisible battle
lines will be drawn. Animosity will grow and fear of
mind wars will be omnipresent. The end result: hurt and
loss for all. Lack of idealism. Does it remind you of any
situation internationally? Is there any hope for tomor-
row’s world if the leaders of tomorrow (us) disregard the
challenge of idealism?

Scully is a freshman from Belmont, MA.

vidual, is guilty of racism. Whether the
result is improvement or detriment for
one race compared to another, it is ra-
cism just the same. My opposition to af-
firmative action has absolutely nothing
to do with how it would affect whites as a
race. I*6ppose it because it involves the
use of race as a criterion of evaluation,
. which is.irrational. -

One point raised in both articles, that
seems central to much of the discussion
of the issue of racism and affirmative ac-
tion concerns the debt allegedly owed by
whites to blacks because of past injustice
and oppression. I am sure no one will dis-
pute that slavery was evil and a disgrace
to this country’s heritage. It was evil, not
necessarily because it hurt blacks as a
race, but, more broadly, because it vio-
lated the inalienable natural right of some
individuals to their own life. If we could
have the luxury of reliving history with-
out slavery, I would be more than happy
to do so. However, that is not possible.

The question then becomes who can
be legimately held responsible for the
damage that this ‘has caused future gener-
ations of blacks. Certainly, if Mr. Yon
were to knock over, or better yet steal my
apple cart, I would expect the damages to
be paid by him. Where restitution is pos-
sible between the involved parties, it
should be carried out. But suppose |

learned that Mr. Yon’s next-door-neigh-
bor’s great-grandfather stole my great-
grandfather’s apple cart one hundred
years ago, and was never caught. It could
be that with the seed from those apples,
my great-grandfather could have planted
an orchard, started an apple juice com-
pany, and passed the lucrative business
down through generation to me. = -@*

How much do I deserve in damages
from Mr. Yon? After all, he lives in the
samé neighborhood as the great-grand-
children of the man who kept me from in-
heriting an apple juice conglomerate.
Sounds ludicrous, doesn’t it?

Yet, this is a direct parallel to what
some blacks demand of whites today.
They claim a right to my property be-

cause I am a member of the same race as

the men who enslaved their ancestors
four generations ago. I refuse to be held
morally or economically responsible for
moral decisions and actions over which I
have no control.

Eric Hill

Inept

To the Editors:
I would like to respond to Anne El-
liott’s narrow-minded, inept article in

last week’s Davidsonian. Anne writes
that ‘“‘white people have this insane idea
that black people want to be like you,
with you. We do not. Everything you
have ever done to black people has been
dirty, unjust, inhumane, and disgusting.
{I guess freeing blacks from their chains
after the Civil War was either unjust or
inhumane. I’m not sure which.] Why on
Earth would you suppose that we want to
be with you . . .” Anne appears to have
forgotten one important fact of American
history — blacks have not been the only

people repressed in our great country!

lialians, Irish, Poles, Jews, and Japanese
have all also experienced frightening
times of social repression within our bor-
ders. But these minorities were deter-
mined to become completely assimilated.
into blond, blue-eyed, Protestant Ameri-
ca and so took up a practice of social visi-
bility — they basically infiltrated Anglo-
Saxon American society to win accep-
tance. Anne appears to support a practice
of social isqlation here at Davidson —
“Black Power Syndrome?”’ — which
would and may result in social suicide.
White are not asking blacks to be like
them, only to be with them. One must be-
come an active component of a society if
one desires assimilation into it. Anne, do
you desire it?

Thomas Vaccaro

Idiocy
To the Editors:

In her article, Anne Elliott dismissed
my letter in the April 20 edition of The
Davidsonian as “idiocy.” To summarize
quickly, its points were:

1)The BSC had no plans to work for
their proposals in any way whatsoever,
and

2)the BSC presented no concrete
reasons for their proposals.

3)The BSC presented no viable
means for the implementation of their
proposals, and

4)in light of the other points, the
BSC’s proposals had been lowered to the
status of demands.

I certainly fail to see why this is idiocy.
Perhaps Anne Elliott could explain it to
me.

While Anne Elliott’s letter had a few
points that could start constructive dis-
cussion, its belligerent tone and hostile
generalizations about whites serve only
to anger the reader and draw attention
away from her points. Through con-
tinued discussion, possibly we can work
out our differences, but impassioned
tirades and véhement personal attacks
have no place in rational dialogue.

Paul Weiss
