2

Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian

Forum Addresses Honor Code Questions

Scare tactics, the need for openness about Honor Council proceedings, and
the importance of individual honor were topics at Tuesday's forum on the Honor
Code.

Sponsored by the Honor Council as part of Honor Awareness Week, the
panel presenting statements and addressing questions included biology profes-
sor David Grant, philosophy professor Lance Stell, library director Leland Park,
English professor Randy Nelson, senior Drew Wells, and freshman Michael
Holt.

Stell raised questions when he presented an argument for making public the
names of students convicted of Honor Code violations. He argued that because
the Honor Council is chosen by the College community to carry out the business
of the community, the council should be held accountable to the body it repre-
sents.

In response to a question of animosity toward those convicted who try to re-
turn to campus after a suspension, Stell pointed out that it is impossible to for-
give when no one knows who to forgive. Making the results of Honor Council
proceedings public would also reduce rumors, Stell said.

Holt compared Davidson's honor system to that of his high school, suggest-
ing that the introduction to the Honor Code during Orientation generates fear
rather than trust, which he believed is a more important quality to develop.

Approximately 60 students and faculty attended the forum, held in the 900
Room.

College Enrollments Creep Up Again

(CPS) Despite a shrinking number of 18 year olds, the college population
may have increased this year to 12.7 million students, an increase of |. 1 percent,
according to a new national survey.

The enrollment increase, though slight, comes at a time when observers ex-
pected a drop because there are fewer 18 year olds — who traditionally are the
new college freshmen who keep enrollments up — in the population at large.

NEWS SUMMARY.

Drug Session To Be Held
The latest research on the effects of drugs being used today will be the
topic of a talk by Bob Gudiz on Monday in the Chambers Gallery at 7 p.m.
Gudiz is from the Charlotte Drug Education Center.
A question-and-answer session will follow his remarks.
The talk is being sponsored by the SGA, Y Student Service Corps, PCC,
and the Council on Campus and Religious Life.

Union Board Committee Chairmen Selected

Union Board officials completed interviews this week and have chosen the
following students to head the Union’s 16 committees:

Laura McDonald, Chamber Music; Tim Waples, College Bowl; Scott Huie,
Concert; Elise Alves, Cultural Events; Alva Moore, Dance; Joe Park, Fine
Films; Elizabeth Elkin, Forum; Pam Strader, Gallery; Clay Napper, Games;
Paulette Kurani, International; Katie Oates, Intimate Performances; Lauren
Sith, Literary Arts; Ed Daugherty, Outing Club; John Munson, Por Films; Bob
Loper, Speakers; Elizabeth Laughlin, Women’s Concerns.

Master Potter Returns To Davidson

Master potter MacKinlay Zimmermann will present his work for sale and
will be on hand to talk with pottery fanciers at The Village Store on Main Street,
Feb. 18 trom 10. a.m until 4 p.m.

Zimmermann, who served on the Knoxville, Tenn. World's Fair commis-
sion and created pottery gifts for visitng dignitaries trom around the world, will
discuss original commissioned work for those intevested.

This will be Zimmermann’s third show in Davidson.

Looking for a part time job?
Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Applications to be accepted at

United Parcel Service — (Corner of 1-85
and North Graham) in Charlotte

Interviews at the United Parcel Service on:

Wednesday, February 15, 4:00—
6:00 p.m.

Pay: $8.00 per hour 15 to 20 hours per week

Monday through Friday
Excellent benefits

Additional inquiries
or information available

through Careers Office

UPS

Equal Opportunity M/F

v
TIES

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring
in this — coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
ORANGE JUICE $1.29

i Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per

visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours

only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants ,
through May 31, 1984.
¢ 1983, Hardee's Food Systems. Inc. °
ee Ee hh re Ge) Gen Gee Eee | tek] RSE

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR
FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.78

vb present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per

, please. Customer must pay any Yales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at

pérticipating Hardee's Restaurants through
c 1983. Hardee s Food Systems. Inc Warcdeer

‘May 31, 1984. °
BS cee oS es San ee none mee ero

