10 Friday, March 16, 1984/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Wildcats Bow To Thundering Herd In S.C. Tourney

By STEVE SOUD

Davidson's 78-68 first-round tourna-
ment loss to Marshall confirmed what
had been many Wildcat onlookers’ early
season fears: the young Cats had neither
the experience nor the firepower to com-
pete among upper-division Southern
Conference teams. It was a heartening
season in many senses, however. Des-
pite the loss of Rafael Hernandez and
Caryl Dawson, two of the team’s most
talented players, the team refused to col-
lapse. Gerry Born and Pepper Bego
emerged as forces to be reckoned with
and as stars of the future.

Against the league-leading Thunder-
ing Herd. Davidson’s resilient youth —
and its relentless tenacity — showed
through, and kept the Cats in the game.

Marshall’s forty-minute full-court
press flustered the young Wildcat back-
court early, and the Herd raced to an
early 8-2 lead. However, balanced scor-
ing from senior All-Conference, Honor-
able Mention All-American Kenny Wil-
son, Born, and Bego brough Davidson to
within three points, 26-23, with 2:50 re-
maining. Freshman point guard Chris
Heineman, who had been doing a steady
job bringing the ball upcourt against the
press, lost the ball out of bounds and ar-
gued with the referee’s call. The official
charged Heineman with a technical foul,
giving Marshall the chance to cushion its
lead. The Herd squandered the oppor-

ee

Wildcats and Coach Bobby Hussey end their season

tuinity by missing the free throw and
turning the ball over toWilson, who cut
the lead to one with a baseline 15-footer.

A Robert Eppes free throw and David
Wade jumper gave Marshall a four point
lead, but with 1:20 remaining Davidson
had plenty of time to work for a high per-
centage shot. Herd guard Jeff Battle stole
the ball, however, giving Marshall a 31-

25 lead with :38 remaining. Sophomore
Jim McConkey countered that with a tip-
in with :13 left, keeping Davidson close.
A Sam Henry three-pointer at the buzzer
gave Marshall its biggest lead of the half,
though, 34-27: °

Marshall continued to apply full-
court pressure in the second half, and

an injury to Heineman. Heineman had

early in the half it forced a crucial play:
played well, committing only five of the
team’s 25 turnovers while handling the
ball a majority of the game. His injury
brought in reserve walkon Bill Naso,
who played well in Heineman’s place.

By the midway point of the half, the
Marshall lead was 13 points, and they ap-
peared to be cruising to an easy win.
With 7:50 remaining Bego cut it back to
ten points, 60-50. Then with 7:05 re-
maining, Wilson hit the last dunk of his
Davidson career, and it was a beauty: he
flew through a host of Marshall big men
and jammed a follow-up with a resound-
ing crash of the breakaway rim. Battle
fouled Bego on a steal, and the sopho-
more sank both ends of a one-and-one to
cut the margin to six, 60?-54, with 6:50
remaining.

Marshall quelled the rally as reserve
Don Turney (who was 8 for 8 from the
line) sank 4 free throws and a layup to
reestablish a 12-point Marshall lead.

‘Turney/s fast break dunk with 4:15 left

broke the comeback.

Wilson’s 21 and Born’s 18 led all
scores. Turney, coming off the bench,
scored 16 for Marshall. Bego had 13.

It was a tribute to this team’s youthful
resiliency, however, which showed
through on the bus trip home.

Born and Heineman were already en-
grossed in talking about next year’s
bright, bright hopes.

Young Baseball Team Needs Consistent Pitching

By ANDY BARRON

The hallmarks of great baseball
teams are pitching and consistency. To
make the 1984 season successful, the
Wildcats need more of both.

“Our team will do as well as our
pitchers,” said Coach George Greer.
Providing the bulk of the pitching will be
senior Scott Redding, sophomores Scott
Weaver and Chip Knox, and freshmen
Billy Waitsmen and Steve Condon. So
far, the pitching has been unstable. Bet-
ter pitching is crucial to the Cats’ for-
tunes this season.

The team has had its ups and downs.
“Our team is 4-3. With some luck, we
could be 6-1.” said Greer. Among the
ups are a 4-3 comeback win over Con-
necticut and a win over Wake Forest.
The lows include a 14-1 loss to Catawba.
“College baseball is very competitive in
the South. We need a good team effort to
be competitive,” said Greer.

All twenty players need to contribute
to that team effort, Greer explained.
“Consistency from the sophomores and
freshmen is critical. Due to labs, papers,
and the rest of the class load of our
players, people won't always be able to
play. The sophomores and freshmen
must be ready to fill those gaps when
they develop.”

Though it is a cliché, the Cats are a

|

young team. There are thirteen freshmen
on the roster. Several freshmen will have
to develop quickly. So far Dave Turgeon
has hit very well. Catcher Dan Simonds
and centerfielder Dave Depaul are regu-
lars in the lineup and performing solidly.
Add pitchers Waitsmen and Condon and
at this point the freshmen look promis-
ing.

There are four sophomores on the
team. Shortstop Keith Helfant is hitting
.357 and fielding flawlessly through

’Cat ball player in action
seven games. Weaver is leading the
pitching staff in wins and innings
pitched. Added contributions from
pitcher/outfielder Knox and _ infielder
Tim Waters will be necessary for David-
son to challenge for the play-offs later
this season.

-With no juniors on the roster, seniors
Mick Smith, Jeff McSwain and Redding
will have to provide extra leadership for
the underclassmen. So far, Redding has
been setting a fine example by leading

the team in hitting as well as pitching.
The main goal of the season, obvi-
ously, is to make the Southern Confer-
ence playoffs. To do this, Davidson must
finish first or secgnd in the division,

which includes Furman, Western
Carolina, and The Citadel. Because
WCU and The Citadel both have very'
solid teams, this will be a difficult goal.
Yet there is plenty of optimism on the
team. As senior Mick Smith said, “This
is the best team since I’ve been here.”
