Friday, October 26, 1984/The Davidsonian 11

SPORTS

Soccer Team Defeats Marshall, Loses To USC

By ANDY BARRON
The soccer team was plagued by two
persistent enemies this week: defensive

breakdowns and a lack of scoring. s

/

Nevertheless, the Cats escaped major
damage by winning an important confer-
ence game against Marshall last Satur-
day, 3-1. On Wednesday Davidson lost
to another southern power, South
Carolina, 3-1.

The Marshall game was a case of a
superior Davidson squad being unable to
put the Thundering Herd away. David-
son outshot Marshall 25-8 and domi-
nated most of the game. The Cats scored
the only goal of the first half when junior
Tony Cabrales hit a sharp, low cross
from the right wing that freshman Steve
Ott was able to get his head on and stick
in the net. Other than this rather spec-
tacular effort, all of the Wildcats’ scoring
efforts broke down in front of the Mar-
shall net.

Davidson continued to control the
game until midway through the second
half. At this time the defense had three
breakdowns. The first resulted in a point
blank save by sophomore goalie Jim
Kelly. The second resulted in a kick save
by sophomore defender Sean Moser. The
other breakdown resulted in a goal by
Marshall.

“When everyone is pushing up to-
ward the front, the defense gets slack,”
coach Charlie Slagle said. “The game
should have been put away well before
that goal was scored. Fortunately, we
were able to pull out a win.”

Senior Steve Bernhardt provided the
save for Davidson. Bernhardt played a
fantastic game, hustled for every ball
near him, and even gave a clinic in box-
ing skills. Yet his big play was merely

Davidson's soccer team played well against most of Iceland.

being held in the penalty box by an oppo-
nent during a Davidson free kick. This
gave the Cats a penalty kick. Junior Wal-
lis Goodman easily converted and
Davidson led 2-1. Cabrales scored the
final goal of the afternoon on a late
breakaway.

Davidson played very well against a
tough South Carolina team. USC was so
good, in fact, that they had both warm-up
uniforms and game uniforms. The
Gamecocks also had most of Iceland on
their team.

Yet the Cats had many opportunities
to score. Early, juniors Sean Goudie and
Sean Austin both missed close shots.
However, a punch save by Kelly and a
timely offsides call halted two South
Carolina threats.

The Gamecocks drew first blood on a
corner kick. It was a solid play, but no-

body for the Cats moved!

“The first goal exemplified the lack
of intensity we've had all season,” said
senior co-captain Jim Wright. “Everyone
thinks someone else will get the ball. No
one commits themselves.”

South Carolina’s second goal came
on yet another breakdown of the defense.
While two defenders were chasing down
the ball on the right wing, the middle was
left wide open. The Gamecocks took ad-
vantage with a sharp pass to the middle
for an easy goal.

“The first half was representative of
our season,” said senior co-captain Dave
Flowers. “We lacked intensity and got
behind. However, I thought the second
half showed what we were capable of
doing.”

The Wildcats came out and played
hard early in the second half and were re-

Cats Fall To Bucknell, Still Winless For

By SCOTT HUIE

When winning a football game be-
comes about as difficult as acing a Quan-
tam Mechanics test, you typically look
beyond the traditional means of devising
Strategy. And apparently, that’s what
Coach Farrell did prior to last Saturday's
30-3 loss to Bucknell, the Cats’ seventh
straight defeat this year.

My sources claim that Farrell had his
coaching staff spy on the Thursday after-
noon aerobics class in the 900 Room to

Pe reo.
tewart, struggles to make the first down against a

"Number 30, Gary S
tough Bucknell defense.

add a new repetoire to the offensive
playbook. What they came away with
was a brand-new strategy called “1 ,2,3—
kick;1,2,3—kick.” Obviously, that did
not work, so now it’s back to the drawing
board.

Yes, Davidson lost again, and yes,
the offense sputtered again, unable to
generate anything to excite the hardly
noticeable crowd of 800.

“The problem is,” Farrell said, “that
we haven't been able to generate enough

offense to get us into adequate field posi-
tion. It seems like we're just grab-bag-
ging it at times. It’s not a lack of effort.
We just haven't put together what we
need. We counter, run up the middle, run
wide, throw deep, throw the screen pass,
but nothing works consistently.”

What has been consistent is David-
son’s inability to score, and one crucial
series late in the third quarter somewhat
typified Wildcat football this year.

Trailing 13-3, Davidson gained
momentum as junior free safety Doug
Neil blocked a Bison punt and sopho-
more strong safety Gary Stewart
pounced on the ball on the Bucknell 7.
Four attempts to score fell short, Buck-
nell regained momentum, and went on to
a big 17-point fourth quarter onslaught.

The only bright spot offensively was
the resurgence of the kicking game,
which produced the Cats’ only score of
the day, a 28-yard second quarter field
goal by sophomore Jack McCollum. Be-
fore you brush that aside as a gross over-
statement, Davidson has not kicked a
field goal since the last game of 1981.

Offensively, the Cats found adequate
production from the running back tan-
dem of seniors David Turner and Mike
Longmire who combined for 96 yards.
Starting quarterback sophomore Steve
Bradley connected on only five of 26
passes for 77 yards.

Bucknell, however. thrived through
the air as the Bison QB finished the game

warded with a goal. Sophomore Steve
Stith created the goal with a slick pass be-
tween two defenders to junior Mike Luf-
kin. Lufkin took a solid shot, but it was
deflected by the USC goalie. Austin was
right there, however, and stuck the re-
bound in the net.

Davidson attacked well throughout
the second half, but to no avail. Late in
the game South Carolina sent a hard shot
that Kelly parried. Davidson was unable
to clear the ball and the Gamecocks
capitalized.

“We didn’t play well in either penalty
area,” Slagle said. “We need to be more
aggressive. If we can do that, we'll stop
some of those goals we're allowing and
score a few more goals than we have.”

Davidson hosts VMI Saturday at 10
a.m. in the football stadium and then tra-
vels to Marshall on Monday.

Fall Season

with 22 completions in 32 attempts for
277 yards and two touchdowns.

“We contained their running game
well,” Farrell said, “but we just couldn't
stop their quarterback. He had a great
knack for finding the open receiver.”

Defensively, Stewart again led the
way with [1 tackles, an interception, and
a quarterback sack.

Tomorrow, the Cats tackle the Ter-
riers of Wofford College (1-5), who have
lost five straight, including last week's
31-0 loss to Western Carolina. An NAIA
independent, Wofford beat Davidson in
last year’s opener 21-7.

The matchup, the last one at
Richardson Field this year, will feature
two teams facing many of the same prob-
lems. Like Davidson, the Terriers have
not been able to generate any offensive
consistency this year, being shutout
twice.

Farrell said, “No one on this team ts
putting their tail between their legs. Next
Saturday, the 1984 football team will be
coming out of the tunnel for the last time
It's a very important game. There's no
question we'll be out to get Wofford.”

Put away those Humes books —- lis-
ten up — the Cats will win tomorrow ina
cliffhanger. After all, who could disap
point Mom and Dad on Parents’
weekend”? Nothing has worked yet. but
this wall.

Huie’s Prediction: Davidson 20 Wot
ford 14
