10

Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian

t—From The Locker Room

A National Perspective On Davidson Athletics

By STEVE SOUD

Amid all the fanfare, flurry, and forumizing over
the role of athletics at Davidson, little effort has been
put forth to understand Davidson's predicament in a
national perspective. Any such undertaking must
seek to understand Davidson through a variety of
milieux: Davidson as Southern Conference member,
the Southern Conference as NCAA member, and
Davidson as an extraordinarily selective institution.

As a member of the Southern Conference, David-
son enjoys many privileges it considers indispensable
to its aspirations in athletics: automatic berths in the
NCAA basketball tournament and College World
Series for the confrence champions, the potential for
all-conference honors for Davidson’s athletes, and
television revenue-sharing with the other conference
members. Moreover, none of the conference schools
is more than a six-hour drive away. On the other
hand, however, the Southern Conference requires
that Davidson, a non-scholarship football program,
compete against IAA national powers (such as Fur-
man) which give 75 full scholarships.

The Southern Conference, despite its Division |
standing, plays a minor role in the overall scheme of
the NCAA. (If there were any doubts concerning that
point, the NCAA dispelled them last year by uncon-
ditionally relegating the SC to IAA football.) It seems
to me that the conferences of the NCAA can be sub-
divided into three categories: small (sub- 10,000 stu-
dents per institution), medium (10-20,000 spi), and
large (more than 20,000 spi). The Southern Confer-
ence, with 5,772 spi, falls under the “small” cate-
gory. The ACC and the Mid-American are examples
of medium-sized conferences, and the PAC-10
(24,900 spi) and the Big 10 (31 050) are examples of
the large size. Many other conferences compare to
the Southern in size, including the Ivy League (6,262
spi), the ECAC-North (8,333 spi), the ECAC-South
(8,250 spi), and the Trans-America Conference
(4,744 spi).

But how does Davidson, a small, outstanding
academic institution, compare with analogs insimilar
Straits in other conferences? Consider these:schools:
Colgate University (Hamilton, NY), Columbia Uni-
versity (NYC), Dartmouth College (Hanover, NH),
Rice University (Houston, TX), and Northwestern
University (Evanston, IL).

Colgate: Enrollment: 2700. Conference: ECAC-
North: App. Median SAT: 1250. Colgate has the
good fortune not to have to play the rest of its Divi-
sion I conference in football. But it does play IAA
fotball (Davidson’s level), and it plays the game well;
‘in 1983 Colgate was 8-3 in the regular season. Like
Davidson football, Colgate offers only need-based
scholarships; however, it has 60 “equivalencies” of
full scholarships to dole out. Most IAA schools offer
75 full scholarships, given regardless of need. Col-
gate’s football program receives $684 ,000 to give out
to players, but only on the basis of need. This gives a

~~ full'schotarship.s¢hool a distinct advantage over Col-

gate when a player has little or no need. (Whereas the
football team can distribute that money to as many
players as it likes, the basketball team can give only
15 full or partial scholarships. At present, Colgate
has eight basketball players on need-based scholar-
ships, totaling about $71,000.)

Another reason Colgate does so well is.its unique

_ method of “slots” in the admissions process. Accord-

ing to Associate Athletic Director Brad Houston, the
football program establishes how many players it will
need in an entering class, and the program requests

that the admissions people reserve that number of

slots. Admissions defines what is reasonable: usually
20-25 slots are requested and granted. The students
filling the slots are capable of handling the work load,

but they are ones wito might have been wait-listed
under the regular admissions process.

Interestingly, Colgate plays only three of its 11
football games at home, where it fills less than half of
its 12,000-seat stadium. They get more money
through gate receipts on the road. Generally, they
schedule three games they can win, three games that
are competitive, three challenges, and two “kickers.”
They play the Ivies and two or three IA schools — an
attraction to. recruits. In 1983 they played at IA
Wyoming and profited monetarily, and then beat
Army, also a IA school.

Not including scholarships and salaries, Colgate
puts $203,000 in football, $49,000 in basketball, and
about $150,000 into its 12 other intercollegiate
sports. There is, however, little friction between Col-
gate’s faculty and athletic department. Said Houston,
“They know academics are first priority and athletics
are second.”

Columbia: Enrollment: 3000. Conference: Ivy
League. App. Median SAT: 1250. Members of the
Ivy League offer only need-based scholarships, but
Columbia’s soccer team went all the way to the
NCAA finals this year. According to Athletic Direc-
tor Al Paul, Columbia achieved that through “hard
work” and an outstanding coach, Dieter Ficken. The
team gave students a real rallying point. They had the
school’s first pep rallies in Paul’s ten years, and stu-
dents took several buses down to Fort Lauderdale,
site of the national championship game. This sort of
program offers hope for Davidson’s nonrevenue

sports.

Dartmouth: Enrollment: 4000. Conference: Ivy
League. App. Median SAT: 1250. Dartmouth
budgets about $3.3 million for athletics, but makes
about $1.1! million back in revenues. They offer a
phenomenal 32 varsity sports, the best-budgeted of
which are football ($280,000), basketball ($51,000),
and ice hockey ($48,000). The college makes money
on hockey, where they reap $112,000 in revenues.
Much of this is due to the fact that it costs students
$5.00 to go to a game, or $30.00 for a complete-sea-
son basketball/hockey pass. But their 3,500-seat ice
arena is often filled, despite Hanover’s rural location.

All scholarships are need based. Consquently,
the football program demands less from its players
than a scholarship program: there's no spring foot-
ball, for instance. But, as Associate Athletic Director
Ray Whiteman contends, although non-scholarship
programs can fare well in national competition, suc-
cess is erratic. “When you’re a non-scholarship
school, things run more in cycles,” he said. “Scholar-
ship schools can maintain continuity.” Harvard’s
hockey team, for instance, was runner-up for last
year’s national championship, but this year is not far-
ing nearly as well.

Many of Dartmouth’s programs are endowed,

and have been for 30 to 40 years. Although this has
not presented a problem. for Dartmouth, Whiteman
warns, “I’ve seen schools where people [alumni] who
give tponey want to have input in the program.’
Rice: Enrollment: 3,000. Conference: Southwest.
App. Median SAT: 1300. Rice has a very tough as-
signment. Its student-to-SWC spi ratio is about one to
seven times Rice’s enrollment. Still, Rice perse-
veres. Rice was a charter member of the SWC, it
reaps about $1 million in television and bow! game
revenues, and the SWC offers Rice teams — both
revenue and nonrevenue — easy scheduling. The ex-
pense is great, however. Of a $3 million budget, $1
million goes to football (including 95 scholarships),
$230,000 to basketball (15 schools), and $100,000 to
baseball (scholarships). Owl baseball is ranked 12th
preseason.

\

But according to Athletic Director Augie Erfurth,
Rice has, in the last six months, haggled over the
academic-athletic debate. It was finally decide that
Rice could polace more emphasis on atletics without
compromising academics. Erfurth contends, “Any
strong program — whether chemistry or athletics —
will attract good chemistry majors and also affect cer-
tain students that want to go to a school with a win-
ning tradition in athletics, even if they don’t partici-
pate in athletics.” Or for that matter, chemistry.

Rice’s football signees for this year averaged
around 1060 SATs, not jeopardizing academic excel-
lence. They’ve started improving facilities, and ex-
pect to upgrade a 34-year-old basketball arena seating
5,200 to a new, 7,000-8,000 seat arena. Two years
ago the booster club began endowing some scholar-
ships, but Rice has had no problem with policy inter-
ference from them.

Rice’s decision to augment athletics without
compromising academics is an answer to a question
Davidson currently asks. Davidson would not have
nearly the expense Rice has, but Rice’s example
suggests academics don’t have to be compromised.

Northwestern: Enrollment: 7,000. Conference:
Big 10. App. Median SAT: 1250. Northwestern has
begun an extensive revitalization program from
which Davidson can learn. Three years ago North-
western was last in everything (90 strokes in golf).
This year its soccer team qualified for the Big 10 tour-
nament, tennis finished second, baseball third, and
golf is expected to be in the top four. The track team
recently won its first dual meet in many years.

At first a Davidson-Northwestern comparison
doesn’t seem reasonable. But Davidson’s student-to-
conference spi (1:4.3) resembles Northwestern’s
(1:4.4). Davidson is to the Southern Conference as
Northwestern is to the Big 10.

Northwestern began with a $21 million invest-
ment to rebuild its facilities. Rich Cortey, a Stanford
Law graduate who first heard of Davidson circa 1970
through our basketball program, now works with
Northwestern’s budgeting and planning. He says that
good facilities “are part of a foundation you're lay-
ing. Youcan have the greatest coach in the world, but
you can’t recruit into facilities that are second rate.”
The Wildcats used to play basketball in an arena with
a dirt floor, upon which they placed a portable court
much like the one Davidson uses in Charlotte. Ac-
cording to Cortey, by the end of the game one could
hardly see across the arena for the dust. They’ ve since
improved upon.

Northwestern re-established its goals. ‘“‘We de-
cided we can compete,” explains Cortey. “We do it
without compromising, and that’s the key. We don’t
cheat; we’re proud of that.” Northwestern is the only
Big 10 member which tests its coaches and adminis-
tration on NCAA and Big 10 policies.

Although expenses have increased, revenues
have increased as well. “We cost less now than when
we got here,” Cortey claims. Rewards are not im-
mediate, but gradual. Cortey thinks that in three years
Northwestern can recoup its $9 million per year athle-
tic budget (by far the lowest in the Big 10). “But
that’s with a caveat,” he explained. “Every service
we provide [leisure activities, etc.] is a service to the
students, and that includes a fair market value rate for
the facilities.”

Finally, Cortey advised, “If you’re gonna do any-
thing, do it the best you can. Don’t be content with
running the middle of the road. Do it the best you can
or get out.”

Next week: The other option — highly selective
Division III schools such as Amherst, Carleton, and
Williams.
