6 Friday, May 4, 1984/The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Donley’s Pictures Paint A Not-So-Pretty World

By MATT MORRIS

The best kind of mystery, or at least the most entic-
ing, illustrates a truth which can be understood by an in-
stant revelation, regardless of the clues involved, leav-
ing reason behind. Pat Donley’s exhibition of paintings
and etching exudes just such a “mystery.” As an inquisi-
tive viewer explores Donley’s world of visuals, he will
find that the “clues” in each figurative painting and etch-
ing provide revelation, but only after the viewer has as-
similated the facts on his own, deriving a deep personal
meaning.

The paintings in particular have the same effect as
starting a book in the middle and then reading only one
page — what direction the characters involved take,
what emotions are elicited depends entirely on the vie-
wer’s imagination.

Still Life, the single black and white piece on dis-
play, perfectly captures Donley’s interest in the ambigu-
ous. A dark figure, wearing boots which suggest the mil-
itary, either crawls or lies dead on several geometric
shapes that form a staircase. The background space
drifts from the solid shapes into a limbo of suggestive-
ness, and immediately the viewer will find himself con-
cocting a “storyline” to the painting. Donley remains
elusive. “I don’t try to incorporate a ‘big message’ into
my painting,” he says. “I simply present.”

Using primarily heavy layers of acrylic paints, the
thick application creates delightful textures, not depic-
tions of reality but suggestions of another kind of world.
Agriculture combines bright oranges and reds, dazzling
the eye with a rich mid-western color harmony. Donley
is a fine colorist, creating shades that are neither overly
warm nor cool, instead bringing a pleasing unification of
tone to his canvases.

And perhaps this is why the etchings in the exhibi-
tion are, for the most part, less successful. Donley’s use
of color remains more confident, at least for now, than

Pat Donley with his work New Bedford

his use of figural drawings. With his etchings, and in
particular, the melancholy Miss Leanne, there is, how-
ever, every indication, that with time this ability will
come.

As Donley’s paintings move into the city, his tex-
tures and color application do not change but his sense of
perspective does. Like a Thomas Hart Benton night-
mare, Dance to the Waxing Gibbons bends and weaves
through a “fish-eye” perspective, creating a nervous
urban anxiety. The distortion goes just beyond reality
suggesting dark charicature, and the mood beneath the
paint is strikingly somber.

In an even more powerful method, this spiralling

point of view occupies the world of New Bedford, a hor-
rifying rape scene captured in a brilliantly dizzy ellipti-
cal perspective. Here, through the concave “twisting”
composition, the eye surrenders to the large vertical can-
vas and the viewer can actually fall into the seedy Mas-
sachusetts pool hall. But Donley does not depict a pretty
world here — his harsh colors create a terrifying vision,
one which is hard to look at, but hard to leave. The bra-
zen coloration and contorted configuration evident in all
of Donley’s paintings and etchings suggest a droll wit,
but like any good joke, the implications are dark.

Donley’s works are on exhibition in the Cunningham
lobby now through May 27.

50 Student Artists Display Works In Art Show

By SCOT MYERS

The Chambers Gallery is currently home to 65 stu-
dent produced art works. Representing some 50 artists,
the display includes a variety of pencil and oil crayon
drawings as well as oil and watercolor paintings.

Jane Aurell’s contribution to the show is, in many
ways, indicative of the majority of the student works:
oversimplification. What makes it stand out is the calm-
ing feeling generated by the colors. Brush strokes create
smooth swirls in the texture of the paint heightening the
overall effect.

In harsh contrast to the softness of Aurell’s painting
is Stewart Cauley’s work. An amazing piece of textured
painting, it looks like moulded concrete covered with
grafitte.

With two of his four works, Pat Donley manages to
steal the show. Donley creates an amazing illusion with
one painting in which the wall of a gallery is actually part
of the picture. Donley even takes the liberty of adding
the viewers shadows when they look at the piece. While
that work teases the viewer, his other painting haunts
with a terribly unnerving view of Donley’s own Moulin
Rouge. A mixture of collage overpainted with acrylics,
it warrants far more than the cursory glance attributed to
many other works.

One of the most outstanding pencil drawings was a
simple Raggedy Ann doll by Laeta Kalogridis. While
the choice of subject may be less than inspiring, the
meticulous rendering of the doll’s cloth dress is incredi-
ble. Maximizing the effect one can only achieve with

pencil, you can almost reach out and touch this oversized

doll and her puffy, grey dress. Kalogridis attempts to re-
create the same feel of fabric in her watercolor piece with
far less success. Despite a nice choice of colors, she fails
to manipulate the medium as convincingly as her pencil.

Dave Klett contributes five prints. While his stylized
figures are unimpressive, there is something pleasing in
his primitive style. One print is particularly impressive
as Klett manipulates two ink colors for a myriad of ef-
fects. Like Lentz Ivey’s color litho, Klett’s print suffers
slightly from off-key registration, but is, nonetheless,
and impressive achievement.

Daring use of color and angle distinguish the first of
Trina Lammers’ four paintings. Taking the first award in
the show, it is a stylistic piece with no definite image.
Her second peice disappoints, however. Other than the
size, it is too similar to her prize-winning painting. Her
third and fourth pieces just became two more triangle or-
gies in neon.

Kat Lehman is still experimenting with her work.
Her three pieces include a watercolor, an acrylic, and a
pencil drawing. Lehman’s locker room painting is sim-
ple but nice and her sketch puts some new life in an old
skull the Art Department keeps around for target prac-
tice. Like Kalogridis, the pencil is her best tool.

Charlie Lovett seems to work with a machine gun
loaded with paint. His two paintings are a myriad of ac-
rylic dots representing no definite image but creating, in-
stead, color impressions.

_ Perhaps jowing Donley, Klett, anddvey in David-
son’s Lithography-Hall of Fame is Meg McArn with her
unobtrusive etchings of plants. Two small works indicat

no small talent.

The opposite of McArn’s petite prints, Ken Pooley’s
two huge paintings overwhelm the viewer. The one with
the red man is a bit too bright and too much like Russ
Warren’s dogs. His other painting, however, is much
smoother and more refined. Though appearing a bit
rushed, its grey man is easier on the eyes and commands
the viewers attention better than the former work.

Andy Rock’s two paintings come off with extreme
gentleness. His watercolor contains a wonderful,
forested horizon while his oil is overwhelmed by some
smooth noir-style set piece.

Also displaying two paintings in the show is Jim
Rumley. A huge canvas comes alive as a red and flesh
whirlwind decorates its surface. What makes the paint-
ing even more fascinating is that a whole rainbow is hid-
den in the piece, each different color speckled and
blended in with each stroke of the brush. The piece has a
nice feel, literally and figuratively, as the paint is care-
fully textured and the color blendings smoothly handled.
His other work, while dominated by blues, is similarly
effective. Both works are as successful as they are beau-
tiful.

Chris Suhr’s and Forrest William’s paintings convey
both their respective images and impressions well, while
Mark Williams’ skillfully etched autumn leaves suffer
from an unclear image hidden in them.

Other notable works in the show include etchings by
Elise Alves, Stewart Edmunds, Laura McGge, and Scott
Purdy, drawings by Greg Kash, and paintings by Miguel
Abreu, Sarah Hart, and Jeff Knudson.

Randy Stroud
