Friday, February 17, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

-Miusic

The Act You’ve Known For All These Years

By STEPHEN MANK

John Lennon and Paul McCartney
are most likely the two biggest influ-
ences on rock and roll ever. Their
ever-changing, always powerful ap-
proach to their music made them the
voices of an entire generation. But
when the Beatles split up, they fell
away from the cutting edge of pop
trends and have since been trying to
come back.

Lennon’s new LP, Milk and
Honey, recorded just before his death
is a sequel to his last album Double
Fantasy. Likewise, McCartney’s disc,
Pipes of Peace is a followup to his Tug
of War.

The McCartney LP is a whimsical
set of fluffy songs that are pretty to lis-
ten to but basically inconsequential.
Tracks like “Pipes of Peace” and ‘‘So
Bad” feature unexciting chord prog-
ressions as background to hideous
lyrics. In “So Bad,” there is no rhym-
ing pattern whatever except for “Well
it feels so good, sometimes it feels so
bad/This is worse than anything I ever
had.” True, pop music is no place for
lyrical virtuosity, but McCartney was
writing better words than that twenty

In spite of the faults of the music it
is well executed. McCartney’s side-
men are among the tops in their fields.
With Ringo Starr’s deliberate, spartan
drumming, Eric Stewart’s flexible
guitar playing, wife Linda’s thankfully
contained keyboarding, and
McCartney’s own expert talents on
bass and throat, the album has all it
needs to be perfect. But even these and
quite a few other good backup musi-

Pe The

PIPES OF PEACE < SPAUL MECARTNEY

cians cannot rescue this floundering,
last gasp effort.

Surprisingly, the only at all dy-
namic songs are “Say, say, say,” and

Michael Jackson. Jackson’s voice may
not be as good or controlled as
McCartney's, but it has a certain gutsi-
ness that the latter has lost as in moving
towards the middle of the road.

The Lennon album does much bet-
ter in the energy category. His songs,
though not earth-shattering, are very
good pop tunes.

The single, “Nobody Told Me”
rings of “Instant Karma,” and not only
that, it says something substantial. “I
Don’t Wanna Face It” is a similarly
strong tune that explains where Len-
non stands in his views of life, like
‘Watching the Wheels,” but in a much
more subtle third person.

The big surprise on Milk and
Honey is Yoko, who is_ actually
dangerously close to being listenable.
Her best cut, “Sleepless Night” is a
bizarre Avant-Garde/Reggae excur-
sion through the mental torture of im-
agined inadequacy in love. Like ‘his
old compadre, Lennon has enlisted the
talents of top studio musicians, but un-
like McCartney, Lennon’s voice is
more controlled and stronger than it
has ever been.

The big problem with both albums

ved all their mysteries — they have no
more demons to exorcise. Both have

relaxed into domesticity. While
McCartney once sang of believing in
yesterday he is now singing ditties like
“Average Person,” a song which more
closely resembles “The People in your
Neighborhood,” from Sesame Street.
Lennon too, has grown too complacent
for anything like another “Day in the
Life.”

But the saddest thing about these
two albums is that McCartney’s vac-
uosity is garnering him gold, and Len-
non’s seemingly returning talent was

years ago.

“The Man,” collaboration tracks with

is that the artists have pretty much sol-

aborted.

Looking for a part time job?
Openings for hard workers at

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

Applications to be accepted at

United Parcel Service — (Corner of I-85
and North Graham) in Charlotte

Interviews at the United Parcel Service on:

Wednesday, February 22
4-6 p.m.

Pay: $8.00 per hour 15 to 20 hours per week

Monday through Friday
Excellent benefits

Additional inquiries

or information available

through Careers Office

/

Equal Opportunity M/F

eee ve oles

BEST EATIN’ALL AROUND !

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring
ein this  MONeY-Savir coupon.

"STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours

only at participating Hardee's Restaurants g
re yo88 Hardt Hardees
c 1983. Hardee's Food Systems. Inc. .

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR
FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79 — |

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in ft
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
participating Hardee's Restaurants through |

May 31, 1984. | , leer

¢ 1983. Hardees Food Systems. ing

coma; ELA WORE No BERG MSEC, COR GW? SR Ee BEE Pe

