10 Friday, September 28, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Production Manager
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor _Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor Will Thomason, Advertising Manager

Ross Holt, Editor

Bed-And -Breakfast Inn

Once again, town zoning ordinances are hindering the growth of the
Davidson community. Religion Professor Tom Clark wants to build a
bed-and-breakfast inn on Main Street.

The problem: the Town has condemned and zoned part of the prop-
erty Clark intends to build his inn on for a parking lot in the Town’s urban
mall project.

Does the Town of Davidson seriously believe Davidson will receive

the same benefits from Clark’s inn as it will from a parking lot? The only
place for travelers to stay in Davidson is the Guest House, otherwise they
have to drive to the nearest motel in Concord (15 miles away).
‘An inn would offer employment opportunities and a gathering place
for the community. Town businesses would benefit. This is no accident.
Clark has every intention of ensuring that Davidson prospers from his
inn.

Ironically, the Town may be choking the very economic develop-
ment it is trying to initiate.

Furthermore, an informal poll Clark conducted shows that the com-
munity supports his project overwhelmingly.

Now it looks as if the dilemma will be decided in court.

Of course, Clark doesn’t have to invest in Davidson, he has chosen
to; apparently the Town does not want his business. It is tragic that a re-
spected member of the community must face such opposition. Clark has
even offered to rent the Town the parking space it needs for free.

The Town should grant Clark a special-use permit — for the good of
all Davidson. Why the Town doesn’t defies all reason.

Dr. George Labban

You could get very angry in Latin class when George Labban picked
you out, and ended up railing at you for not doing your homework. But
you could not say you did not learn Latin.

The College, the Classics department, and, especially, students will
miss Dr. Labban, who retired at the end of last spring’s Classics Abroad

Seminar. ;

During his tenure, he helped design and implement the Humanities
program. He served as the first, and until now only, Classics department
chairman. But most importantly, he provided 32 years worth of David-

son students with his unique knowledge of his field. Dr. Labban did not
stay in the classroom; he escorted many of his students to the locales they
were studying, through the Classics Abroad seminar.

He is what a teacher ought to be; one who loves his field of study and
who can make it come alive for those learning from him.

We wish Dr. Labban well in his retirement; he will be missed.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson,
NC 28036, Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and'149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class
postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of
Davidson College.

News Staff: Boyd Blackburn and Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editors, Ginger Broaddus, Richard
Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Shane Meeks,
Tom Schilling, Chandon Sinlia, Lee White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson, Chris Hughes, Jill Boyette
“Arts and Entertainment Staff: Corliss Carter, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, An
drew Wilson, Thurston Hatcher
Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley
Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Christian Harberts; Kevin
Horan, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmeicik, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
' Advertising Staff: Laurin de Beck, Joanneke Brentjens, John Redding, Todd Wiebusch, David Van
Pelt
Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Brooke Knight, Pauline Rhodes. Compositors: Anne Lambert,
Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide
Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

ry
f

tb [B0[b +P) SAL *

Drug problem’? $3 'down , have a drink —
We'll talk about it.

t

LETTERS

Yearbook

To the Editors:

There are about 1400 students at
Davidson. Of those, slightly over 600
had their pictures taken for this year’s
Quips and Cranks. We realize that the
second week of classes is not the ideal
time to take portraits, but is there any
time when everyone is free? Believe us,
we are well aware of how much there is
to do and how overwhelming it can be.
However, it would have taken little over
five minutes to sit down and have your
picture taken, under no obligation to buy
a single shot.

Five minutes of your time can make
our jobs so much easier. We have con-
tracts to honor, deadlines to meet, and
pages to fill.

Should we chalk the response, or lack
thereof, up to student apathy? We don’t
want to believe Davidson students don’t
care about their yearbook. We realize
that there was some confusion concern-
ing Friday afternoon, but a telephone call
or a glance at the appointment book
would have cleared that up. There were
posters displayed, reminders slipped
under on-campus doors, announcements
in eating houses, and everything else we
could.do to make Davidson aware.

We would like to thank those who did

come out and have their picture taken. |

For those of you who didn’t, we plead
with you to sign up for the next time Sud-
low Photography comes. It will be diffi-
cult to convince them to come again, but
we must have more students represented
in the 1985 yearbook.

Indeed, the photographers were not
supposed to come again. Our contract
said that we would have at least 1000 stu-
dents photographed. If we don’t reach
this quota, we will have to pay all their
expenses. Also, if we don’t get enough
pictures, we may have to resort to print-
ing features on Davidson dogs or campus
garbage. Personally, we would much
rather include your pictures.

All the Quips and Cranks staff

Cats

To the Editors:

Congratulations are due to Clare Ec-
kert for noticing that the “wildcat prints”
around Davidson are incorrectly adorned
with clawmarks. However:

— Feline claws are perhaps more ac-

curately if not very commonly described
as being protractile or protractible, since
the action of protruding them, e. g., for
climbing or for catching prey, is effected
by muscular contractions; when the ani-
mal is walking, with claws sheathed,
these muscles are at rest. The rear toes
are less flexible than those of the
forefeet, and the hind claws are always
partially exposed and comparatively
dull. In fact, it is certainly within the
realm of possibility that these hind toes
might leave clawmarks if their owner
were jumping or pushing off strongly
with the hind legs, rotating the claws
downward to grip the ground.

This becomes even more likely if we
imagine a bipedal wildcat. Admittedly
such a creature is rare in the world; how-
ever, I personally witnessed the college
mascot travelling in this manner at a re-
cent football game, although he (it) was
wearing tennis shoes at the time and |
was unable to determine either the posi-
tion or the condition of his (its) claws. It
may also be of interest that the African
cheetah differs from other felines in this
respect, all of its claws remain un-
sheathed and are more similar to a dog’s.

— While I will not attempt to charac-
terize the intelligence of cats, | would
like to note that their paw design has been
evolutionarily determined, and the fact
that most of them do not walk around
with their claws extended is probably un-
related to any mental gymanstics on their
part. For that matter, the fact that dogs
“allow their claws to scuff and scrape the
hard-surfaced roads of Davidson” should
not be interpreted as evidence of a canine
intellectual deficiency.

— It seems very strange to me to use
the exaggerated size of the “pawprints”
as a basis for concluding that they do not
belong to a wildcat, and then in the same
sentence, to propose that they were made
by canids. | am unaware of of ‘any species
of dog or wolf, extinct or extant, that
could have left tracks of such dimensions
— even the formidible members of the
NC State Wolfpack.

— Lastly, while the second para-
graph of Eckert’s letter may be of interest
to trivia buffs, I do not see that it contrib-
utes much to the thrust of her argument.
After all, it requires very little knowlege
of feline geographical ranges and even
less logic to perceive that the Davidson
“wildcat” is intended to represent the
North American bobcat.

Nevertheless, I am grateful that this
