6 Friday, September 21, 1984/The Davidsonian

Selections From The Presidential Advisory Paper

Editor’ s note: The following are excerpts from the Presi-
dential Advisory Paper. The selections were edited for
brevity and clarity.

The Presidential Advisory Committee was formed in
the fall of 1983 by Student Government President
Hunter Monroe. The purpose of the committee was to
examine as many issues as possible in which students ac-
tively participate or feel they should participate.

We chose to approach the study by asking different
interest groups on campus to describe briefly the history
of their ogranizations, the purpose they serve the stu-
dents and the community, and the future role they would
like to play in the life of Davidson. Most groups ap-
proached were very co-operative and interested in the
oportunity to present themselves to the new administra-
tion’s attention. The paper does not, however, include
all campus organizations, nor does it represent every stu-
dent’s opinion.

The two most notable deletions in the paper are the
subjects of athletics and the opinions of each individual
eating house and fraternity. The reason that the commit-
tee chose to omit the subject of athletics is not because
we feel students should not play an important role in
making decisions in these areas.

The reason is that opinions about the athletic pro-
gram are too many and too diverse to examine in this
brief paper. We realize the many effects that it will have
on individual students and teams when changes are made
in the structure of the athletic programs. Therefore, we
ask that the students’ voices be heard when the Davidson
athletic program is next examined.

This is similarly the sentiment of the Committee re-
garding Patterson Court. There are far too many argu-
ments for and against changing the fraternity system.
While this paper presents a good profile of the issue of
fraternities on Patterson Court, it offers no proposals by
or opinions of specific fraternities.

The content of each report submitted to the Commit-
tee is essentially unchanged. We hope that the informa-
tion which we present in this brief is helpful to you in
better understanding some of the various interests of stu-
dents at Davidson today.

Patterson Court
The report of the Patterson Court Study Committee of
the SGA, chaired by Warren Gould:

The Patterson Court Study Committee was formed in
the spring of 1982 in response to growing concerns
among Davidson students that the College’s social sys-
tem was ng longer functioning fairly or effectively. It
was determined to examine in depth the system of Self-
Selection and suggest ways in which the system might be

better.
The Committee recognized several faults in the sys-

tem. First, it [the system] was not working as then Presi-
dent Samuel Spencer had intended when the self-selec-
tion system was implemented in the fall of 1972(?) [sic].

Theoretically, each house on the Patterson Court,
whether or not nationally affiliated, was to accept with-
out question any student — male or female — into its
membership. However, at least three of the four frater-
nities which remained on the Court after this implemen-
tation continued in varying degrees to encourage certain
male students to join their membership.

With such encouragement came some implied dis-
couragement, as those students who did not receive en-
couragement also did not receive the invitations to
closed parties and such [sic] which were extended to the
students being sought by the fraternities.

In essence, the self-selection system had failed to re-
move selectivity from the self-selection system. In a
1983 PCSC student survey, 81 percent of the respon-
dants felt the system was not working as designed in
theory.

Second, the three most selective Patterson Court
fraternities — KA, PiKA, and SAE (the fourth, Phi
Delta Theta, remains essentially self-selective, as do the
other houses on the court) — developed means of com-
municating selectivity to the freshman class without
overtly breaking the system’s rules.

These included extending written invitations to the
sought freshmen for open and closed parties, ignoring
unwanted freshman at open functions, and extending
“oral encouragements” to those freshmen the fraternities
wished to have join their brotherhood. At least 96 per-
cent of the students who returned a 1983 PCSC survey
on self-selection equated the three selective Court frater-
nities’ oral encouragements with written bids. (The col-
lege adopted oral encouragements as an acceptable court
policy in 1974(?) [sic].

Other less passive means of communicating discour-
agement to freshmen have in the past been used, varying
from spilling beer on the undesired student, to inviting
him to a meal and completely ignoring him, to telling
him outright he is not wanted at that particular house.

Third, the Committee saw problems with the in-
coming classes’ orientation to the Court. The problem
begin with the College Catalogue, which for the
academic year 1982-83, read“ . . . freshmen may select
the house they wish to join, and every effort is made to
place them in the houses of their first choice” (p. 25).
The misleading impression is one of virtually utopian
computerized self-selection.

The Committee felt that freshmen were also being
misled in freshmen orientation. Some few students con-
tinued to think the Court to be totally self-selective up
until the end of winter term, when the freshmen are
asked to make their house selections. By that point the
three fraternities usually feel quite confident who will
and will not join their houses. The Committee therefore

Advisory Paper
Contents

— Davidsonian Article: “Visions and Revi-
sions: A Patterson Court History” by senior
Ross Holt
— Report on the first Self-Selection Commit-
tee, 1983-84
— Report, Study, and Conclusions from the
Patterson Court Study Committee (SGA)
— The Actual Survey and Research Materials
Used in the PCSC Study (SGA)
History of Self-Selection Report by the Presi-
dents of Patterson Court, 1983-84 and 1984-
85
Il. Honor Council
— Report from the Honor Council by Bobby
Silver 84
— Various Materials concerning the Honor |
Council
Ill. Security and Parking Committee Report
(SGA) by Frances Palmer, ‘84, and Jim
Mashburn, ‘84
IV. Women’s Concerns Committee
— Report from the WCC by Debra Williams
"B84
— Women’s Impact Study Committee (SGA)
by senior Chris Blake
V. Black Student Coalition
— Write-up by William “Stone” Bynum '84,
President 1983-84
— Articles on the Subjects of Blacks and Ra-
cial Discrimination from The Davidsonian
Vi. Y-Student Service Corps Report by seniors
Beth Maczka and Chris Blake.
Vil. The Union by President Thomas Evans
VII. Intramural Athletics
IX: Davidson Christian Fellowship: History
and Purpose by Charles Wiley, ‘84
X. The History of the SGA Faculty Evaluation
Committee by senior John Laughlin
XI. Semester System Study
— Statement of Purpose and History of the
SGA Semester System Implementation
Committee
— Faculty Proposal for a Semester System
Forward

ITY
felt the College was being unjustly deceptive in its pre-
sentation of the social system.

The Committee also recognized some positive as-
pects of the social system. The first and perhaps most
important was the extended time period the freshmen en-
joyed before deciding which house they wished to join.
In allowing the freshmen (and the houses) almost two
full terms before the selection process, all people in-
volved had sufficient time to become acquainted with
the system, the houses, and their members. The mem-
bers likewise had sufficient time to become acquainted
with the various freshmen.

The Committee also noted that inter-fraternity com-.,

petition and pressure did seem to be on the rise, and the
relationship between the fraternities was still relatively
casual and healthy.

The PCSC began its study only with the basic as-
sumption that problems did in fact exist within the work-

ings of the current social system and that, therefore,
something should be done to correct it.

There have been, over the past 11 (7?) [sic] years,
three basic proposals defended and attacked and reiter-
ated among the student body in various different word-
ings and fashion of reasonings: (1) to remain under the
present system of self-selection but to watch the frater-
nities’ rush tacktics more closely; (2) to return to a strict
enforcement of self-selection, requiring national frater-
nities to leave campus if necessary; (3) to take the final
step in the direction the system has been evolving, al-
lowing fraternities to extend written bids but keeping the
local eating houses under the rules of self-selection (the
“two-tier” proposal).

The Committee decided initially to abandon these
proposals, possibly returning to one of them when the
study was completed.

The PCSC included the results of various surveys and re-
ferenda in its report.

PCSC Conclusions and Recommendations

As evidenced by the many editorials in The David-
sonianduring the spring of 1983 concerning self-selec-
tion and by the heated debate in the PCSC’s open
forums, there is no easy solution to Davidson’s social
system problem. Of ultimate concer is the individual
students. Has he been treated fairly? Has he been hurt?
Have his rights been maintained?

Attention must also be given to the Patterson Court
houses: how best will they operate effectively and effi-
ciently and have their rights been maintained? The ques-
tion of rights seems central to this whole issue. A line
must be drawn, apparently, between the two parties on at
least one point — the issue of selectivity.

Greek social service fraternities are by nature exclu-
sive; membership is available only to those whom the
fraternity selects to join its brotherhood. Davidson’s pre-
sent social system is by nature inclusive. The right of
selection rests with the individual student, who may
choose freely to become a member at any house. The
PCSC concludes that these two ideals cannot exist and
have not existed under one all-encompassing system.

Students should have a clearer understanding of Pat-
terson Court even before they apply to the College for
admission. This means a change in the College
Catalogue. Once they arrive in the fall as freshmen they
should be presented with a candid, realistic picture of
Davidson social life.

Black Student Coalition
This section was drafted by Stone Bynum ’ 84

The BSC was originally formed as a social group in
order to promote unity amongst Davidson’s few Black
students. Since its founding, the Coalition has underta-
ken a dual objective of not only promoting unity amonst
Black students, but also of educating the rest of the cam-
pus on Black affairs and the Black experience at David-
son.

To accomplish this dual objective the Coalition has
been given a house on Patterson Court and has de-
veloped four committees (Publicity, Recruitment and
Orientation, Social, and Special Events).

The BSC has had moderate success in its programs
thus far in the past few years. However, we feel we lack
(genuine) interests from the College campus. Our goal is
to become part of the College, not a group set apart from
it. We feel our contribution to the campus is good, but
what we need and urge is continued support from the stu-
dents and administration of Davidson College. What we
wish to convey is that the Black experience at Davidson
is a different one, one which we feel is beneficial for the
whole campus to learn about.

The BSC is made up of a diverse group of students,
all of whom are willing to share their experiences as
Black Davidson students. We feel that one has not had a
truly liberal arts education until that education has en-
compassed the Black experience.

The main goals of the BSC right now are (more
Black students and faculty members and the incorpora-
tion of Black studies into existing curriculum: i.e. more
Black writers on the English writing list, a Black history
course, etc.) We realize that our goals cannot be accom-

plished without the help and support of the rest of the
campus.

Articles appearing in last spring term issues of The
Davidsonian were atso included in this section of the re-
port.
