Friday, September. 28, 1984/The Davidsonian 5

Anorexia, Bulimia Becoming
Serious Davidson Problems

continued from page |

and a relapse during times of stress —
like around exams — is common,” she
said.

She believes that the high incidence
of eating disorders on her hall is not un-
usual. All three women came to David-
son with anorexia. One overcame

symptoms of anorexia but became
bulimic.
Though bulimia is not as life-

threatening, many experts believe it is
such a serious problem because so many
women are doing it, and if the bulimic is
discreet, she can go for six to eight years
without being noticed. Both all-female
eating houses have had incidents of
members throwing up in the bathrooms
after meals.

Ann Davis, a psychologist in the
counseling center, is new to Davidson,
but she has dealt extensively with eating
disorders in her Charlotte practice. She
said victims of the disorders are anxious
to please other people, and they look to
others for a standard. They even feel
superior to others because they are so
successful — too successful — in con-
trolling their weight.

“While the anorectic restricts food
because she’s afraid if she eats she'll get
out of control, the bulimic binges, usu-
ally in times of stress, and believes that
by purging, she has found a solution to
her problem. She can eat without getting
fat,” Davis explained. ‘But the solution
becomes the problem. Purging is a re-
lease, and it’s addictive.”

There exists a dangerous tendency
for friends to ignore these problems unin-
tentionally, Davis said. But Ross and
Davis cite bulimics who said after treat-
ment that they could not believe no one
caught on to their behavior earlier. Often
the bulimic is careless about cleaning up
to alert others to her problem, but she still
cannot verbally ask for help.

Therefore it is essential that friends
pay attention to any strange eating
habits, bizarre ideas about food, skip-
ping meals or disappearing after meals,
Davis said. Though it is difficult, con-
fronting the victim is the first step toward
getting her professional help, according
to Ross and Davis.

Ross recalls one student who came to
Davidson with anorexia, but her family
and doctor refused to acknowledge it.
“Finally after three years she admitted to
herself that she needed help, and she
went away to receive treatment. She ex-
perienced a great recovery, and returned
her senior year, but greatly regretted
‘missing’ three years of college,” Ross
said. “She urged me and others to con-
tinue to intervene until these women
admit the problem and can begin to get
help.”

An organization in Charlotte called
Anorexia Nervosa And Other Disorders
(ANAD) aims to help those suffering
from eating disorders and maintains a
Hotline to answer questions concerning
anorexia and related diseases.

CAREERS
and

PROFESSIONAL GRADUATE PROGRAMS

Peggy Pierotti

hg

Dr. George Labban

Labban Retires After 32 Years

continued from page |

He was named chairman of the new
Classics department which began offer-
ing a major in Classics approximately
four years later.

Another change in Labban’s career
came with the advent of the Humanities
program. As a member of the committee
which designed the program and an in-
structor for its first 20 years, Labban
realized that the creation of the program
“reflected a desire to be progressive. |
don’t regret participating in any degree
— it was challenging and rewarding, but
the work load was unreal.”

“I know I was considered a hard pro-
fessor,” Labban added, “but | would
have felt like | was shortchanging any
student in my class if | wasn’t.”

In 1969 Labban acted as resident pro-
fessor in Montpellier, France. This ven-
ture gave him a chance to solidify his
ideas for a Classics seminar abroad in
Greece and Italy. “It was performed in
the spring of the year I submitted the pro-
posal,” Labban said. “That first year |

took seven boys. I've always gotten good
response from the students — later I set
the minimum number of students at 10,
and the largest group I ever took was 14."

When asked about his retirement,
Labban said, “I don't like it worth a
damn at this point.” Aside from the class-
es and discussions, he added that “I miss
just the excitment of working with col-
lege-age students — they kept my mind
young and involved. It's electrifying to
have so many things to think about.”

Senior Classics major Marshall
Johnston said fondly of his former pro-
fessor, “The Lebanese Wildman was in-
credibly proficient. His retirement has
broken up one of the most coherent clas-
sics departments around.”

“At this point my physical condition
has priority over everything.”” Labban
said about his future plans. “When the
time does come, however, then I will
give thought to speaking with several
persons who have come to me about get-
ting involved.”

GOVERNMENT & INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS

CAREERS IN
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT

Challenging opportunities are offered in the
following areas of business management:

An informal discussion with
representatives of both the

e Finance
Contract Administration

John F. Kennedy School of Government Retail Merchandising

Public Policy Program

. Food Service
HARVARD UNIVERSITY Inventory Analysis and Purchasing
& e Transportation and Distribution

e Fuel Planning and Analysis
¢ Computer Systems
e Operations Analysis

Woodrow WilSon SCHOO!
Of Public and Intemational Affairs

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY
Visit with representatives of the U.S. Navy
Supply Corps to learn how your degree in
accounting, economics, business administra-
tion, computer science, or engineering can
prepare you for an exciting business Career.

Mon., Nov. 12

Date:

9:30-10:30 & 10:30-11:30 groups

Time:
October 2

Morrison Room
4:00 p.m.

Presentation:

Place: ___ Your Career Placement Center

October 3
College Union

Interviews:
All years, all majors welcome.
For additional information, please Contact

your school's Career Development/Placement Office. An Equal Ooporlunity emolovar

