Friday, April 20, 1984/The Davidsonian

“Guarneri Quartet Makes Music Appealing —

By JESSICA HUNT

The Davidson College Artist Series winds up its
1983-84 season with a concert by the prestigious Guar-
neri String Quartet this Monday.

The quartet includes violinists Arnold Steinhardt and
John Dalley, cellist David Soyer, and violist Michael
Tree. The quartet’s members have performed together
since 1964, when the quartet debuted at Vermont's
Marlboro Music Festival.

Three of the four musicians attended, and currently
serve as faculty members at Philadelphia’s Curtis Insti-
tute of Music, and all four are music professors at the

University of Maryland. Each member of the quartet _

performs as a soloist as well as in collaboration with
other artists.

Steinhardt made his solo debut at age fourteen with
the Los Angeles Philharmonic, and was a winner of the
Leventritt International Award. Steinhardt’s phrasing
and tone provide a major contribution to the quartet's
over-all character and sound.

Quartets are said to be only as strong as their second
violin — in this case, the violin of Dalley. Dalley de-
buted at age fourteen and toured widely in Europe and
Russia before teaching at the Oberlin Conservatory. He
continues his craftsmanship by making violin bows in
his spare time.

Violist Tree began his career studying the violin and
debuted at Carnegie Hall at age twenty. Having learned
to play the viola at the Curtis Institute, Tree has won rec-
ognition with both instruments.

Cellist Soyer began playing at age eleven — rather
late for a virtuoso performer — but made his debut at age
seventeen with the Philadelphia Orchestra. It is Soyer

Cocoanuts !

By MATT MORRIS

Members of the Guarneri String Quartet

who owns the Andrea Guarneri instrument constructed
in 1669 from which the quartet takes its name.

The Guarneri is credited with having made quartet
music accessible and appealing to the general public yet
without sacrificing musical concerns. Their perfor-
mances are renowned for seamless unity of tone and
range of expression. Their recording of the Catavina
Movement from Beethoven’s Opus 130 was encapsu-
lated in the Voyager II and launched with other artifacts

representing the best of American culture.

Monday night’s program will feature Beethoven's
Quartet in E-flat major, Opus 74, “The Harp”; Kodaly’s
Quartet in D major, No. 2, Opus 10; and Schubert's
Quartet in D minor, No. 14, Opus Posthumous D. 810
‘Death and the Maiden.” A reception following the con-
cert will be held in the Morrison Room.

Tickets are on sale between 2 and 5 p.m. at the Union
Box Office and at the door.

M
R.E.M. Shows Control in Reckoning

The mad Marx Brothers return to
Davidson Friday in The Coconuts, and
what a blessed event. This delightful
1929 comedy provides reason enough to
forget Easter, reserving holy time to the
gds of mirth — Groucho, Harpo, Chico,
and of course, Zeppo. The brothers’
rapid-fire wit, spiked with irony and sar-
casm, remains as funny and effective
today as it was 50 years ago.

Representing early Marxism (in fact,
The Coconuts was the first Marx film),
each sequence either creaks in laughable
stereotypes or explosions beyond the
outer realm of non sequitur. The primi-
live one-point “stage” perspective (to
accomodate the latest fad in film, sound)
gives the brothers a _ wonderfully
aaturalistic playground, and encapsu-
lates classic comedy. Groucho and
Chico’s exchange concerning the defini-
tion of “viaduct” is paritculary amusing,
and Harpo’s silent antics — chasing
women, eating pieces of clothes, etc. are
as endearing as ever.

Beware however! If you’ve never
seen a Marx brothers film, be sure to
drop all conventions before watching —
reality, love, hate, even death itself ulti-
mately become old one-liners in this
mad, mad world. Perhaps the “anti-san-
ity” format accounts for the recent re-
surgence of interest in Marx Brothers
films.

In a world filled with paranoia, nu-
clear weapons,
Marx rx_plithely hitting a. mustachioed

smoothy ,over the head with a hammer
rag ome SONS Cr sinvandnien seuss viete hee

and aerobics, .Harpo .

By DAVID McGEE

It has all been fun. That is, watch-
ing a University of Georgia party band
put out a single, have it get a Village
Voice award for best single of the year,
and finally see the band get Rolling
Stone Critics’ awards for “best new
group” and “Album of the Year.”

R. E. M. has done a lot since its
members all dropped out of school and
formed a band because vocalist
Michael Stipe “got tired of cooking
steaks.”

R. E. M.’s latest effort, Reckon-
ing, is an excellent follow up to last
year’s critically acclaimed Murmur.

Unlike Murmur, jokingly called
‘“Mumble,” Reckoning does not have
an obvious hit like “Radio Free
Europe.” But the songs on Reckoning
could stand on their own; all are well
composed and performed.

Each song consists of vocal har-’
mony, bass, and drums layered over’

driving guitar melodies. Surprisingly
though, the R. E. M. “formula” does
not detract from the immense diversity
of Reckoning

Many fans asked even before Re-
ckoning came out, “will we be able to
understand the lyrics?” Well, yes and
no. Like Murmur, some of the lyrics
on Reckoning remind one of listening
to a radio station out of range. But does
that really matter? R. E. M.’s music
has a real impressionistic quality that
gives it a subtle, but firm effect.
A line from the first cut, “Harbor

Coat,” sums up the focus of all the
songs: “There’s a splinter in your eye
and it reads react: R-E-A-C-T.” That
splinter is love and the conflicts that
arise in human relationships. For ex-
ample, “Time After Time” asks: “If a
friend takes a fall, are you obligated to
follow?”

Instead of trapping their feelings

inside, the band lets them all out in
_their music. From “South Central Rain

(Sorry)” we hear:

Did you never call

I waited for your call -

The rivers of suggestion
Are driving me away . . .
Sorry .. . Sorry . . . Sorry

Yet R. E. M. has more control in ex-
pressing themselves than in their past
efforts.

“Camera” breaks from the two rac-
ing numbers before it (“Second Guess
me and “Letter Never Sent’), and

quietly explores the meaning of a past
experience, where “It was simple
then.” The music and lyrics keep echo-
ing the haunting thought: “will you be
remembered?” “If I could be a cam-

ra,” the songs says, then every per-
son, feeling, and experience would
have everlasting meaning.

Though remembering éverything
is impossible, writing songs about
one’s life sure helps.

Reckoning has its funny moments,
too. After “Camera,” the band starts
out with a riff reminiscent of Deep Pur-
ple’s “Smoke on the Water.” They cut
it short, and with an “all right” from
producer Mitch Easter, R. E. M.
breaks into a country-style number
called “Rockville.” The song high-
lights everything country music is all
about: depression, lost love, and inde-

. pendence.

“At night I drink myself asleep/
And I don’t even care that you’re not
here,” the song laments, and later de-
clares that it’s time to leave behind all
the factory jobs of “full time filth” and
everything otherwise unpleasant in life
— “don't go back to Rockville . . ./
And waste another year.” “Rockville”
is filled with country guitar licks which
have all the spring of a Willy Nelson
number coming over a radio-alarm
clock at 6 a.m. on a cold, rainy morn-
ing. -

Reckoning has much to say as well
as a lot to enjoy; which is what the best
music is all about, anyway.

Saei tae Nhon a ee BEY

a yee Me

aT Oa

