Friday, November 2, 1984/The Davidsonian __ 7

SPORTS

Soccer Wins 2; Looks Toward Conference Tourney

By ANDY BARRON

Davidson took two big steps toward
advancing to the Southern Conference
championship game this week. Satur-
day, the Cats bombed VMI 8-1 here.
Then Davidson eeked out a 1-0 overtime
win at Marshall Monday night.

The two wins left Davidson 8-8-1
for the season with only two games left.
A win by two or more goals over Ap-
palachian State here on Wednesday
would propel Davidson into a rematch of
last year’s Southern Conference
Champsionship game with Furman.

“We played well and we played hard
aginst VMI,” said Coach Charlie Slagle.
‘Marshall is a tough place to win and we
were under a lot of pressure. But the team
relaxed and did the job.”

VMI was the perfect opponent for the
parent’s weekend game. Everybody got
to play and the folks got to see plenty of
scoring.

Junior Sean Austin started the rout by
putting in a rebound from the goalie.
This started a trend of rebound goals that
caught on quickly. Freshman Craig Mat-
tison and senior Mike Mauzé were the
first to jump on the bandwagon. Then
freshmen Chip Whittman hit with a
corner kick goal to make the score 40.

Davidson then had its obligatory col-
lapse of the defense. Sophomore goalie
Jim Kelly made two fine saves before
VMI finally scored. However, sopho-
more Carter Grine responded with
another rebound goal.

The second half was all Davidson as
Austin, senior David Flowers, and
freshman Andy Clarke added goals to
make the final score 8—1. No matter who
was on the field, Davidson controlled the
action. The brilliance of Davidson’s play
was so great that one of the VMI players
donned sunglasses. This was to no avail,

Rocky Kmeicik

Senior Stephen Bernhardt attempts to get around a defender

though, as Davidson walked away with
an easy win.

“I think we showed what we are capa-
ble of doing,” commented Slagle. “It
was a good game for parent’s weekend.”

The Marshall game was different. In-
stead of a cake walk, a barnburner en-
sued. Davidson controlled the flow of
play for most of the game, yet the Cats
could not score.

To add to the pressure, Davdison was
forced to play one man short from 15 mi-
nutes left in regulation and through both
overtimes. Austin got his second yellow
card and was ejected. Regulation time
ended with a series of corner kicks for
Marshall.

The first overtime period ended with-
out any scoring. As the second overtime
ticked away, Davidson drew closer and
closer to having its championship hopes
ended. With the team pushed as far for-
ward as possible, Davdison got the
needed break. Senior Mike Lufkin led
junior Tony Cabrales, but Cabrales col-
lided with the charging goalie. Cabrales’
header was deflected upward. Lufkin,
following the play, pounced on the loose
ball and lobbed it into the net for the
game-winning goal.

“We couldn't have made it much
closer,” said Lufkin. “It was a pressure-
packed game, but everyone handled it
well. No one panicked, even in the last

few minutes. We showed we can win the
big ones. Hopefully we'll win two
more.”

Davidson plays at Furman tomorrow
Saturday in a grudge match. Then
Wednesday's clash with Appalachian
State will determine who will get a
chance to play for the conference cham-
pionship. If Appalachian State either
wins or ties, it advances to the champion-
ship. If Davdison wins by two or more,
the Cats advance. A one-goal margin of
victory for Davdison results in a coin toss
to determine who advances.

‘Appalachian State is our big game,”
said Coach Slagle. “Iexpect a good game
between two good teams.”

Cats Slip By Wofford 7-0 In First Season Win

By SCOTT HUIE

Break open the champagne. Get
Main Street ready for a_ticker-tape
parade. Any O-for—10 clubs adjourn
until another year.

Brace yourself — Davidson won a
football game. It was not pretty, but it
was a win, a 7-0 defeat of Wofford in last

Saturday's game, the last at home of

1984. The Cats now stand at 1-7.

The scene in the locker room after the
game teemed with histronics — tears and
cheers which usually come only with the
likes of a national championship. A sigh
of relief swept the locker room as the
monkey that had settled on the Wildcats’
backs could now be hung in effigy. Let
the victors speak.

— Coach Ed Farrell: “It’s great to
have a win under our belts. I’m just
happy for our guys; no one deserved it
more. We’ ve played hard all year, never
really playing a poor game, just not quite
good enough to win. It was especially
nice since it was the senior’s last home
game.”

— Quarterback Jeff Haney: “I just
couldn’t be happier. We’ ve been off and
on all year, and we finally put together
what we needed to win.”

— Tailback David Turner: “We
knew Wofford was a team we could han-
dle so we just went out and did what we

had to do. It sure has been a long time
coming.”

— Guard Larry Spears: “Long time
hell, it’s been ages. And the defense rose
to the occasion once again. I'm simply
on a natural high.”

It took only one play to transform
these victory-starved footballers into ac-
tual victors. Early in the second quarter
with the game scoreless, senior fullback
Mike Longmire took a handoff at the
Wofford 41, found daylight, and scam-
pered all the way to the end zone.
Longmire, who had 84 yards on 12 car-

Sophomore quarterback Steve Bradley looks for a receiver

ries, said the play “was supposed to go up
the middle, but I saw [junior tackle]
Keith Rawlins put the linebacker on his
butt, so I cut outside where I saw nothing
but goal line and was off to the races.”

It was a good thing the Cats scored
when they could because most of the
time they could not. “After seven straight
losses,” said Turner, who led all rushers
with 88 yards on 23 carries, “we tend to
expect something bad to happen and we
almost lost it, but we just hung in there
for the victory.”

Davidson got within the Wofford 20-

Cris Simpson/The Technique

yard line eight times without scoring
One attempt ended in a missed field goal,
another on a fumble, three stalled on
downs, and three ended in interceptions

Defensively, the team put together a
masterpiece, led by junior linebacker
Scott Morrison's 14 tackles. The Cats
held the Terriers to only 54 yards rushing
and kept them pinned deep in their tern
tory unable to mount a sertous threat

If Spears and company are on a natu
ral high, then it’s time for them to come
down. Furman (5-3) awaits them tomor
row. The Paladins have defeated David
son seven times in a row, including last
year’s 55—7 drubbing. This year, Furman
has won an impressive 34-30 victory
over N.C. State, but has lost: three
heartbreakers to Southern Conference r-
vals.

Offensively, the Paladins may have
lost Stanford Jennings to the pros, but re-
placement tailback Robbie Gardner may
be just as good. He has rushed for 752
yards on 144 carries this year.

“We have great respect for Furman,”
Farrell said, “but we don't fear them
They are virtually the same team they've
had for the last several years and are still
the best team on our schedule.”

Huie’s Prediction:

Furman 41

Davidson 13
