10 Friday, May 4, 1984/The Davidsonian

Davidson Signs Six Basketball Recruits Over Year

By STEVE SOUD

The Davidson basketball program
continued on its path to resurgence as it
signed five outstanding high school
seniors and one junior college transfer
for next season. The first two signings
occured in November as part of the
NCAA's second-year early signing pro-
gram. The remaining four were signed in
April; the players are listed in chronolgi-
cal order of signing.

Dean Keener
Keener was one of Ohio’s leading

players this past year, as he led
Tallmadge High to an excellent season.
As a junior he averaged 14.9 ppg, six
rpg, and four assists per game. He can
play either point guard or second guard.

“His strongest asset is outside shoot-
ing,” assistant coach Robbie Hicklin
explained, “and he is an exceptional
playmaker.” Keener’s high school coach
Jim Maddox lauded, “Dean is outstand-
ing in every respect. He is fundamentally
sound on the court and a good person in
general. I am confident he will be a suc-
cess in whatever he does.”

Wolfe, Neibhur Participate
In International Hoops Tour

By HUNTER GOURLEY

Ah, remember those great high
school days when a summer job meant a
little pocket money to foot those beach
trips and basketball camps?

Then BOOM. You graduated, went
to college, and found out those summer
jobs don’t allot the time for sunning at the
beach, much less the money. And bas-
ketball? Well, no longer eligible for the
summer camps, Michael Jordon took
your spot on Knight’s Olympic squad.

But it is not that big of a deal for hac-
kers, since we didn’t have too much to
lose in the first place. This isn’t the case
for most Division I athletes, whose
coaches expect them to spend a great deal
of time on American courts during the
summer.

Davidson’s Ken Niebuhr and Ted
Wolfe, Steve Hale of UNC-CH, Reid
Gettys of Houston, and Ray Grom-
lowicz, to name a few players, have de-
cided differently. Enough is enough.
They’ve made up their minds not to step
onto any of their respective coaches’ fa-
vorite American courts — that is, indoor
or out.

No, they are not involved in any
player-coach conflicts. In fact, coaches
Hussey, Smith, Lewis, and Wissel like
what their players are not doing — or
rather, what they are going to do.

These guys are still going to play ball;
they simply are not playing in the States.
They have chosen to play for one of three
Athletes in Action teams, as part of the
AIA International Tours basketball pro-

gram.
AIA is a non-profit Christian organi-
zation that fields teams of college and
past college Christian athletes in a vari-
ety of different sports. Niebuhr and

‘Wolfe are participating in the summer

basketball program, just one facet of the
International Tours ministry. Interna-.
tional Tous sends athletes to different
countries around the world.

The AIA brochure explains the pur-
pose and logic behind the combination of
sports and religion. “Sports is one of the
world’s great international languages.
No matter what the game or where it is
played, crowds will gather to experience
the drama of competition. AIA teams
make use of this opportunity to tell other
people something about Christianity.
Thousands will evaluate what they say
by how they play.”

Niebuhr will be leaving with his team
to play in Europe (and Eastern Europe)
on July 25. Wolfe leaves June |, for Asia
(the Phillipines and China), with his
team. They will be abroad for over a
month honing their basketball skills and
spreading the gospel.

Not a bad way to spend the summer.
But they have a fairly difficult obstacle to
overcome first — more of a problem than
the lack of a few beach trips, camps, or
the broken rim out back. Niebuhr and
Wolfe must come up with about $4,000
each to cover their expenses. While some
financial assistance will come through
churches and other benevolent organiza-
tions, some help would also be greatly
appreciated from their friends.

Classifieds

LOST — Two twenty dollar bills on
Wednesday — left somewhere on cam-
pus. If found, please call 892-6162 or
leave at Union desk.

FOR RENT — Spacious modern apart-
ment-type facility in private home;
accommodates 3 persons; 2 bed- -
rooms, bath, kitchen (with stove, rae.
frigerator, table), lounge/pool room,
private entrance; located 1 1/4 miles

from campus.. interested persons may

i

call 892-7696 after 6 p.m. for further in-

formation and appointment.

PETS — How would you like a beauti- .
ful, grey kitten with blue eyes? Well,

we've got two of them, one solid, one
striped, and we're searching for pro-
spective homes. They’re three weeks
old now, but will be ready to go in
about three. more. They make great
graduation presents. Come by Marton
Manner or call -3454. Also, we have a
very, gentie mother cat, soon to

spayed, to give away. Pos

Keener, MVP of the Metro Confer-
ence as a junior, and nominee to All-Dis-
trict and All-Northwest Ohio teams as
well, “fell in love” with Davidson and its
campus. “After visiting several schools it
became apparent Davidson was the best
for me, both academically and athleti-
cally. I was looking for a school that
would prepare me for what comes after
four years of basketball.”

Terry Rupp

Rupp, a 6’6”, 225-pound senior at
Tampa’s Jesuit High School, was a USA
Today and Street and Smith Honorable
Mention All-America. He led Jesuit to
the Florida state Catholic league cham-
pionship. As a junior, Rupp garnered
All-State honors as he averaged 25 ppg
and 14.7 rpg. In an early 1983-84 game
he scored 42 points and grabbed 18 re-
bounds. Moreover, Rupp is an outstand-
ing baseball player and likely to be cho-
sen in the draft this year.

Coach Bobby Hussey, who expects
to fill the hole Kenny Wilson is leaving,
said Rupp “has the strength to play inside
and is also an outstanding shooter from
the wing.” Rupp explained, “I felt
Davidson was the best place for me.
Davidson has a very good nucleus com-
ing back. I think I can fit in well with
Davidson’s returning players. And
Davidson can prepare me for whatever is
beyond basketball.”

“The only thing that surpasses his
basketball talent,” stated Jesuit coach
John Szponar, “ is his great desire for the
game.”

Jeff Himes

Himes, a 6°4”, 190-pound forward,
was selected to the All-South Carolina
team for a second consecutive year. He
averaged 19.2 ppg and 7 rpg, and is des-
cribed by Hussey as a “Kenny Wilson-
type_of player. We look for Jeff to play
small forward. He has very good athletic
ability, particularly quickness and jump-
ing ability.”

Himes set career scoring (1,496) and
rebounding (398) records at Irmo High
School. An outstanding student, he is
president of his class and secretary of
Irmo’s Fellowship of Christian Athletes.
Irmo ‘coach Tim Whipple said, “I think

Davidson has gotten a very good player
and student.”
Derek Rucker

Rucker, the 6’0”, 160-pound son of
former Cleveland Brown’ Reggie
Rucker, is described by Hussey as a
“very fine point guard.’ He led the Uni-
versity School of Chagrin Falls, Ohio to
a 26-2 record and was named to the Ohio
AA All-State team.

Rucker averaged 18.6 ppg, seven as-
sists per game, three steals per game,
five rpg, and shot 56 percent from the
field. He was named to the Cleveland
Plain Dealer's Dream Team and All-
Scholastic Team, as well as being
selected Cleveland’s Private School
Player of the Year.

“Derek Rucker is a great college
prospect,” said University School coach
Jeff Morton. “He sees the whole floor. In
fact, he often sees open players before
they know they’re open. His quickness
made it impossible for teams to press
us.” .

Dave Fitzgerald

Fitzgerald, a 6’7”, 190-pound for-
ward, averaged 19.8 ppg and 13.5 rpg
this year. He is a three-sport standout for
Maple Shades (NJ) High School, starring
at quarterback and is a_ professional
baseball prospect as well. He has twice
been an All-Burlington County pick in
basketball.

“Because of Dave’s involvement
with these sports he has not attended the
most _highly-publicized _ recruiting
camps,” Hussey stated. “He is a good
shooter and handles the ball well.”

Despite missing part of his senior
season due to injury, he finished as the
county’s third leading career scorer.

Patrick Riazza

Davidson announced Riazza’s sign-
ing Wednesday. He is a transfer from
Henry Ford Junior College in Michigan.
At 5°11”, 175 pounds, Riazza averaged
18.5 ppg and six assists per game as a
point guard. He was All-State and All-
Region 12 for a 21-9 team.

“He’s one of the hardest working
players I've had,” said Coach Jim Armit-
age. ‘He is a good shooter to 20 feet and
should be a good college scorer.”

/
}

2900 I-85 South

AMERICARE

COMPUTERS
Printers and Disk Drives Repaired
Service Contracts

This ad is worth $15 towards Repair or Service Contract.
(Offer ends May 31,1984)

Xerox Service Center

charlotte, NC 28208

,704) 398-1523

saturday may 5

| PLAY

1229 tyvola

