By STEVE SOUD

The venerable Al McGuire often
referred to John Pinone, formerly of
Villanova fame, as a “blue collar
player.” The idea was that Pinone, not
the world’s best-endowed basketball
player, had to work for every point, re-
bound, steal, or block he got. Watch-
ing Gerry Born play against UNCC
and Furman last week, one might be
led to believe that Mr. Pinone’s spirit
has been reincarnated here at David-
son.

In those two games, Born matched
up defensively against Melvin Johnson
and George Singleton, who combined
for a total output of about 39 ppg. Bor
guarded Johnson for the second half of
the UNCC game, and he devastated
him. Johnson had scored 15 first half
points, but Born, largely through ball
denial defense, held the 49ers star to
two second half points. On top of that,
Born out-positioned Johnson on re-
bounds nearly every time, as he out re-
bounded Johnson 6-1 in that half.
Moreover, Born drove the much more
agile Johnson to the hoop twice. The
second half was an embarrassment for
Johnson, his pride intact only because
of his outstanding first half.

The only reason Singleton’s pride

From The Locker Room

Gerry Born A “Blue Collar Player”

ity 2 intact was that Furman
exited a winner. Once more, Borp was
the leading instigator of the” main
man’s woes. He held Singleton to a
dismal seven points, ten below his sea-
son average. Born also hauled in seven
rebounds. Offensively Born.was most
impressive: 17 points from all over the
court. He made Singleton look silly on
a couple of follow-ups and one around-
the-world layup.

To polish that off, Born grabbed 10
rebounds, a game high, against East
Tennessee.

Born has to work for all this. Box-
ing out 6-10 guys who can out-leap and
out-quick you is no easy task. But
Born plays effective, heady, bruising
defense.

There are three teams on the court
during a basketball game: two oppos-
ing teams and one mediating team, the
referees. When the referees do their
job well, their presence is hardly
noticeable. When done poorly, their
decisions incite an uproar. Such was
the case in Johnston Gym Saturday
night.

Although I cannot rightly claim
objectivity on this point, I have rarely
seen the momentum of a game hinge so
drastically on one call as the other

night. Put the case: Kenny Wilson has
four and is benched. The offense stag-
nates without him. Coach Bobby Hus-
sey returns Wilson to the lineup. The
Wildcats shave a seven-point Paladin
lead to three, at which point Chris
Heineman tips a Furman pass off
course. Wilson, reacting to the ball
prior to his opponent, races forward to
get the ball. He comes up with it, creat-
ing a two-on-one break and a chance to
cut the lead to one. Instead, the referee
whistles a foul — Wilson’s fifth —
that sends the Paladins to the line.
They convert the one-and-one for a
five-point lead with 5:30 remaining.

From my angle, Wilson never
touched the opponent. But even if he
did, was it a justifiable foul? The gen-
eral rule-of-thumb in basketball is that
on a free ball, personal contact is al-
lowable, as long as neither side gains
an advantage. If there was contact, did
Wilson gain an advantage? I don’t
think so. In fact, because Wilson had
reacted to the deflected pass prior to
the opponent, it would seem that the
opponent gained advantage by con-
tact. It was an unfortunate call.

The officiating team was apparen-
tly the same one Marshall Coach Rick
Hackaboy blasted in the press a few

days earlier. It is rumored that this
team was under investigation at the
time of the Davidson-Furman contest,

It would be unfair to say that these
officials were biased. There were sev-
eral bad calls that went against Fur-
man. But one mistake, which at the
time of its commission could have
worked against either team, showed a
measure of ignorance on the part of the
officials. After noticing that one of the
two scoreboards was wrong, the offi-
cials stopped play to repair the dispar-
ity. While the timekeeper adjusted the
score, they resumed play. Meanwhile
there was no one available to start the
clock, so several seconds elapsed
while the game was underway. This is
an example of gross negligence on the
part of the referees, and for that alone
they should be reprimanded. A han-
dful of questionable or even bad calls
are tolerable, expected, and even un-
derstandable during the course of a
game. But such consistent, blatant in-
competency should not be tolerated. It
is a pity that two teams should have to
endure officials already cited as in-
competent. Worse than that, after cor-
roborating their own incompetency
with a second poor performance, they
should not be sanctioned.

IMAC Losers Get Bad Press, No Respect

By HUNTER GOURLEY

The only losers on this campus not
getting any press or respect belong to the
teams defeated in IMAC contests. All
other Davidson teams get written up in
The Davidsonian regardless of victory or
defeat — from football in the fall to
baseball and track in the spring. It isn’t
fair. IMAC losers deserve to see their
teams’ players’ names — in print, too.
First, the forfeitures in IMAC games
played since the break.

Score sheets show four forfeitures for
the new year. Credit must go to Buster’s
Lusters and Sisters, Inc. of the women’s
league for their combined efforts in a no-
show that resulted in the first (1 think)
double forfeit of the season.” Dana
Lemon could not be reached concerning
the Sisters’ absence, while the Lusters of
Third Rich were snyposedly all safely, , ..
tucked into their beds well before their
9:30 p.m. court date.

In B-league b-ball, the Killer Spees
lost to the Fijis NAATPBF by thirty-
eight points, 67-29. The Spees opted to
save face by forfeiting when they failed
to provide referees for another IMAC
game (for exact ruling see Forfeitures:
b], under Policies and Procedures, in the
Davidson College IMAC _ Basketball
1983-84 Blue Book). Charlie Bradley
was low scorer for both teams with one
point and he was also the game’s leading
fouler.

Speaking of SPEs, in A-league play
Champagne Jam earned a victory by for-
feiture when SAE’s team, Freddie and
the "heads, failed to make the game. A

Jam player — and a real winner himself
(names won’t be mentioned, Howarth)
— misspelled forfeit on the scoring sheet
and also credited his players with thirty
points apiece for an IMAC total point re-
cord of 240-0.

And finally, a forfeiture was disco-
vered outside the confines of Johnston
Gym. Referee Curtis Northrup recorded
a pre-break no-show for the Nutty Bud-
dies of IMAC street hockey fame. The
other team, Eddie Shore, scored no
goals, winning the match by default. So
much for those fosers. Now for the losers
who were crazy enough to show up and
be defeated by twenty points or more.
Ladies first, once again.

Mother’s Finest took it on the chin
when they showed up on court without
their offense. The Mothers combined for
a four-point total (possibly another

IMAC record. -lagina. tn. Sictacc’ dean dra: nx.

wer ee

22 points. Buster's Lusters’ ‘performance
against Rusk must have been their incen-
tive to accept a later, aforementioned for-
feit with grace. The Lusters lost to Rusk
40-12 in a real thriller. In another mis-
match, the Little Foxes were outscored
several times by Warmer Hall, 48-10.
Shelly Lineberger and Becca Bates
scored 14 points each in this rout. Tricia
Ives hit two buckets for the Foxes.
Three games deserve attention in the
men’s league. The Headhunters II never
stopped trying in their 39-point loss to
the impressive Partour’s. Dogs in a
courageously fought B-league game that
ended 60-21 at the buzzer. Mike
Stephens and Rich Pollard scored no
points in their team’s loss, but Pollard

did foul once and Stephens yelled a lot.
John Harper scored once and also com-
mitted a foul for the ‘Hunters II.

Two A-league games reulted in
blowouts. In an interhouse rivalry, the
KA’s Right Stuff lost to the Supreme
Court, 62-36. The Stuffs Greg Murphy
was the game's lowest scorer with no
points, while the Court’s Scott Huie took
the game's hacking honors with five
called fouls. Pie Delta Tetta had some
difficulty getting their game together
against Pony Express. PDT hit for a 21-

point total and the Express delivered the
mail for 44 points. Morgan Ward was
PDT’s low scorer and fouler with one
basket and no called fouls. Andy Leper
couldn't put one in the hole that night,
but he played solid defense.

Rodney, who says IMAC losers
don’t get enough press and at least a min-
imal amount of respect? Oh yeah — a
special favor — W’spoon hit for a game
high 20 points in an Anteater pre-break
loss and he tossed in eight buckets Mon-
day night. Nice going "Spoon.

Equestrian Team Takes
Individual Honors

gM HP Std “at Ay"

With three riders and only the begin-
ning Division I represented, the equest-
rian team still managed to finish the Dec.
18 intercollegiate horse show at the Col-
lege of Charleston with major individual
honors.

In Class 2, Advanced Walk-Trot,
Janice Evans placed second and Jan
Withers placed fifth. Kelly Sundberg,
entered in Class I, Beginning Walk-Trot,
came away with the first blue ribbon of
the Davidson team’s first season with the
Intercollegiate Horse Show Association.

The team now looks ahead to two
shows in the regular season, including its
own show, to be co-sponsored by
Queens College and beld at Davidson's

nl 4s te Oo 3 shyt, pats, oe txee a od oe

Par al
a ate ey

riding facility at the Lake Campus in
mid-March.

A number of riders have a strong
chance at qualifying for the regional
horse show in early April. Twenty-one
points are required to qualify; points ac-
cumulate depending on the rider’s place
finish: seven points for first, five for sec-
ond, four for third, etc. Sundberg; who
has Davidson's highest point total, and
Evans have good shots at regionals in
their respective classes.

Susan Moore in advanced Walk-
Trot-Canter and Sheryl Aikman in
Novice Horsemanship on the Flat. as
well as the other riders, also have oppor-
tunities to earn more of the necessary in-
dividual points in the upcoming shows.
