Friday, October 26, 1984/The Davidsonian

SGA Discusses Student Legislature Charter

The presence of Bob Mazzoni, Bill Miller, and Deidre Adams, members of
the North Carolina Student Legislature, highlighted the this week’s Student
Government Association meeting. They encouraged students to participate in
the program, which conducts monthly debates on resolutions proposed by mem-
bers of the Legislature.

According to Adams, a student at Catawba College, “it’s a lot like Boys’ or
Girls’ State, except it’s on the college level.” Annually, the NCSL meets at the
State Capital in Raleigh to debate and vote on bills. Forty to 60 percent of the
passed bills become North Carolina law. The SGA was receptive to the idea of
resuming the College’s charter in the program, and all interested students should
contact Jay Gaither at 892-6167 for further information.

The “Statue of Liberty” fund drive was also discussed. The week-long cam-
paign, which raised money to refurbish the Statue of Liberty ended today. Sev-
eral senators mentioned that some controversy arose concerning the project.
They said some students felt the project was an attempt to gain publicity for the
College. Sophomore class president Mark Sandy, however, said the project’s
purpose was solely to contribute to the refurbishing of the Statue. ;

SGA members discussed a proposition to donate a portion of the amount
raised to another cause connected with liberty and freedom. The general feeling
of the SGA, according to Sandy, was that this would’be unfair to students who
believed their money was going to the Statue of Liberty drive.

In other business, a vote was taken on the proposal submitted by Freshman
‘Advisors Mary Griffin and Hunter Roddey who moved to change the by-law re-
quiring Freshman Advisors to have had hall counselor experience. The proposal
failed to receive the necessary two-thirds vote of the SGA. Several objections to
the by-law change were made; some felt it would unfairly restrict students desir-

ing to run for the position.

Senior Class president Warren Gould reported the College Young Republi-
cans and Young Democrats will sponsor a “straw vote” for the upcoming 1984
elections. :

The meeting adjourned at 10:10 p.m. with an agreement by SGA President
John Laughlin and Anne Miano to discuss the Advisory Board Reports at next
week’s meeting.

Contributed By Ginger Broaddus

IBM Donates $147,395 To ‘New Liberal Arts’

International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) has awarded Davidson
a $147,395 grant to support “The New Liberal Arts” program here. ;

IBM’s grant, which includes $27,395 in computer software, will help fund
faculty efforts to modify existing courses and develop new courses to o integrate
technology into the liberal arts education. '

Initiated in 1982, the program is designed to assure that Davidson College
students achieve competence in the use of computers and applied mathematics,
and a better understanding of how modern technology affects society. Some 79
percent of Davidson's full-time faculty members in the humanities and social
sciences will participate in the program.

In addition, a series of six symposia, involving fundamental aspects of tech-
nology, is being presented by “The New Liberal Atts” program. The third in this
series, titled “Bioengineering and Health Technologies,” will be held from 3:15
p.m. to 9 p.m. Nov. 8 in Chambers Gallery. The symposium, which will ad-

NEWS SUMMARY

dress the physics, economics and applications of magnetic resounance imaging,

a relatively new procedure that takes “X-ray-like” pictures of human body tis-

sues, will feature speakers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Mount Holyoke College, Charlotte Memorial Hospital, and Davidson.

“The New Liberal Arts” program was started with a $250,000 grant from the
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Davidson was one of 33 colleges selected by the
foundation to receive funding for curricular developments incorporating con-
temporary technology and applied mathematics into the liberal arts.

Current Affairs Awarness Program To Meet

The Current Affairs Awareness Program, supported by the Y Student Ser-
vice Corps and the Union Board International Committee, will hold its first
meeting at 10 p.m. next Tuesday, in the 900 Room. Headed by Dawn Bhasin,
Lucinda Kellam, Paulette Kurani, Christine McGuire, and Gordon Watkins, the
informal group is designed to inform students about current events and issues.

Bhasin said, “The program will be geared towards those students who would
like to become informed about national and international affairs but just don’t
know where to begin.” She said the group plans to have faculty members and
students speak on various issues.

Anyone interested in supporting the group should attend the meeting and call
Bhasin at 892-6208 or any of the other core group members.

Students To Vote For Christmas Gift Fund Project

Students will vote for a project to receive the Chapel Committee’s Christmas
Gift Fund offering next Thursday. Each year, the College community collects
the offering to give to a worthy cause. The four projects suggested by the Chapel
Committee are:

* 1) The Damien Leprosy Hospital in India. The hospital is sponsored by the
Catholic Church.

2) A refugee camp in Honduras. The money would be channeled through the
International Red Cross.

3) Famine relief in West Africa through the Hunger Program of the Presbyte-
rian Church. ;

4) The Crisis Assistance Ministry in Charlotte. This agency gives
emergency aid to low income families. It is sponsored by several congregations

arlotte. .

Donitions to'the selected project will bé collected during the first three’
weeks of winter term. Last year’s Christmas Gift Fund recipient was the
Gethsemane Tutorial Program at the Davidson Community Center. That pro-
gram recevied about $2,500.

Chaplain Charlie Summers said the Christmas fund drive is an opportunity to
remember those in desperate need during the holiday season.

Voting for the Christmas-gift fund will be held in Chambers lobby next
Thursday from 9 a.m. to 12 noon.

Contributed By Lee White

IS IT TRUE you can buy jeeps for
under $200 through the U.S. Gov-
ernment? Get the facts today! Call

312-742-1142, ext. 5239-A.

SUCRET PAN TASTES

aa
This unique
college campus
is limited to only
500 students...

..maybe
you'll be one!

Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea, Taiwan,
Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt, Turkey, Greece and
Spain.

Choose from 60 voyage-related courses to earn 12-15
transferable hours of credit from the University of Pittsburgh.

Develop an awareness of our relationship with other
countries and a first-hand understanding of world issues.

Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color,

race or creed.

For details, write or call:
Miva" (800) 854-0195
SEMESTER AT SEA toll-free
NUTZZ4 histitute for Shipboard Education

University of Pittsburgh

L 2E Forbes Quadrangle ¢ Pittsburgh, PA 15260

