Friday, October 19, 1984/The Davidsonian 11

OPINIONS

_ Why Obey The Honor Code ?

David Resnik

“The only guide to a man is his conscience; the only
shield to his memory is the rectitude and sincerity of his
actions.”

—Sir Winston Churchill

Every year Davidson College indoctrinates a new
class of students in the ways of honorable living. The
honor code appears as a sacred oath that must never be
broken. Indeed, it would be a sin to even think about
breaking it. From the time that we are freshmen; an enor-
mous fear shrouds the code like a black veil, and some of
us are afraid of lifting that veil because of what we might
find in our hearts.

For the most part, the honor code works at Davidson,
and it provides us with many benefits: self-scheduled
exams, open dorm doors, unlocked bikes, unattended
books, etc. . . Few people question the honor code; its
justification seems to be self-evident.

But is it? Does the fear of breaking the honor code
justify obeying the code? Should we obey the code sim-
ply because it benefits our community? In this essay I
will raise the question “Why should I obey the honor
code?” Though most of us have answers to this question,
they may not be the right ones. To really know why we
should obey the honor code we must justify our beliefs
by engaging in a reflective process that goes beyond our
common-sense intuitions.

There are several typical arguments for obeying the
honor code which do not provide justification for our be-
liefs. Consider the following argument:

1. We should obey all laws.

2. The honor code is the law.

3. Therefore, we should obey the honor code.

This argument is valid but not sound. The honor code is
the law at Davidson College, but should we obey all
laws? Is there such a thing as an unjust law? Suppose you
live in a community which has enacted a law that re-
quires you to take apart your car and hide it behind a bush
whenever you encounter a horse while driving. Clearly
you have no obligation to obey this law. So it does not
follow that we should obey the honor code simply be-
cause it is acommunity law. Our real reason for obeying
the code must come from some higher law.

Here’s another argument for obeying the code.

1. If you disobey the honor code, you will be caught.

2. If you are caught, you will suffer (ostracism,
guilt, etc. . .).

3. Suffering is not in your self-interest.

4. You should do what is in your self-interest.

5. Therefore, you should obey the honor code.

This argument appeals to the ethical egoists in the
crowd. It makes the unwarranted assumption that you
will be caught if you disobey the honor code. It implies

that we can disobey the honor code as long as we do not
get caught. The only thing that is wrong about breaking
the honor code is getting caught breaking it. This argu-
ment, as formulated, is not sound; the egoistic claim that
we should act in our self-interest is false.

There are cases where acting strictly in your self-in-
terest would be the wrong thing to do. Suppose that you
are rushing to an appointment for a job interview and you
spot someone raping an old woman in an alley. No one
else is around to call the police or get help. If you help
the old lady, then you will be late for the interview. |
think we would all agree that you should report the
crime, even though it is not in your self-interest. There-
fore, there must be some more compelling reason for
obeying the code besides self-interest.

The following is a third possible argument for obey-
ing the honor code:

1. The honor code allows us to have self-scheduled
exams, unlocked bikes, etc. . .

2. The things mentioned in premise | benefit the
community.

3. We should do something if it benefits the commu-
nity.

4. Therefore, we should obey the honor code.

This argument is also unsound. The honor code does
benefit the community, but should we do something just
because it benefits the community? Suppose a terrorist
has planted a bomb in a house, but no one knows where
the house is except the terrorist. The terrorist will not re-
veal the location of the bomb. If the bomb goes off it will
kill at least five people. The only way we can get the ter-
rorist to divulge the location of the bomb is by torturing
him. Should we torture the terrorist to save the people? I
think not. Torture is wrong under any circumstances;
people have a right not to be tortured even if the commu-
nity might benefit from their being tortured.

There must be a better reason for obeying the honor
code besides the good it will produce for society. The
consequences of obeying the honor code are irrelevent;
obeying the honor code must have intrinsic moral value.
We should still obey the honor code even if it did not
give us self-scheduled exams or allow us to leave our
doors unlocked.

Each of the arguments I have examined for obeying
the honor code fails to give us a proper justification.
They may all motivate us to obey the honor code, that is,
they may cause us to act in such a way that we obey the
honor code, but they do not give us a good reason for
obeying the honor code. So why should I (we) obey the
honor code? The following is what I consider to be the
best argument for obeying the code.

1. Obeying the honor code will make me a more re-
sponsible, sincere, and morally autonomous person; it
will improve my character.

2. I should strive to be sincere, responsible, and mor-
ally autonomous.

3. Therefore, I should obey the honor code.

Even if obeying the code does not provide me with

any material gains or does not make my community a
perfect society, I should still obey it. Take away all of
my worldly possessions and all I have left is my honor
and personal integrity. No matter how rich or successful
I am, I cannot live with myself if I know that I am not act-
ing rightly. Winston Churchill compared honor to a
shield which protects us from despair even when all of
our other enterprises fail. His reasoning resembles mine
on this issue: the only thing which is at least sacred is the
integrity of your own mind and actions.

These moral virtues of sincerity, honor, and respon-
sibility are more important than any particular code
which enforces them. We should obey the honor code
because it inculcates these virtues in us. When we live by
the code we internalize the code, and it becomes part of
our conscience. We move beyond the unreflective, law-
abiding attitude toward codes and become autonomous
moral agents.

To show that the virtues that the code instills are
more important than the code itself, consider the follow-
ing examples. Suppose a person you know very well is
cheating. He is suicidal and will kill himself if he is
caught cheating. If you turn him in, he will kill himself.
If you don’t turn him in, you have violated the honor
code. What should you do? Clearly, you should go get
help and see to it that your friend gets treatment for his
mental problems. In this case your concern.for your
friend’s life and health overrides strict adherence to the
honor code.

Suppose you are on the witness stand and are asked
to reveal the addresses of five people who are hiding
from the authorities. Suppose you also know that there is
a mafia hit-man in the audience who will kill the five
people as soon as he knows where they are. Should you
lie under oath and save the five people or should you
obey the honor code and let them die? Once again, it is

more important to save the people than to obey the honor
code.

Suppose you know someone who is highly allergic to
bee stings and has just been stung by a bee. There is no
medicine around to treat his sting, except in another
friend’s room. The other friend is not around, so you
can’t ask him for permission to use his medicine. Your
friend who was stung will die if he does not receive im-
mediate treatment. Should you steal the medicine or let
your friend die? In this case, as in the other two, the
honor code must yield to a higher code.

These examples may sound ridiculous and hypothet-
ical, but they demonstrate that there is a code higher than
the honor code. Obeying the honor code is usually the
right thing to do. But if the honor code conflicts with the
higher code, then you should obey the higher code. We
should obey the honor code, therefore, because it leads
us to a way of life and a way of thinking which will ena-
ble us to grasp this higher code.

Resnik is‘a senior philosophy major from Chapel Hill,
N.C. and an editor emeritus of The Davidsonian.

Radio Debates Would Emphasize Issues

Tim Brown

In Britain, Canada, and elsewhere, debates between
prime ministers are regularly held over the radio. Unfor-
tunately, our presidential candidates can avoid each
other, a question from any source, and the press. When
the candidates do this, the public is the real loser. The
grave responsibility of picking a president demands that
we hear more than 30-second media clips, 45-second
commercials, and carefully rehearsed speeches.

It should be written into the platforms and bylaws of
both parties that at least six presidential debates are to be
held over the radio.

A half-dozen or more debates over the radio would
give the public a better view of the candidates and would
lessen the possibility that a chance remark or slip of
tongue would take on inappropriate importance. In
1976, Gerald Ford was hurt by his slip about Poland not

being behind the Iron Curtain. In 1980, Carter was hurt
by his remark about asking Amy for advice.

Debates over the radio place most emphasis on what
is said; debates on the television place most emphasis on
appearance and gesture. The object of television debates
is to avoid mistakes and to look good. Many relevant
skills and virtues of a candidate are thus overshadowed
by irrelevant ones.

The first time television had an impact on an election
was in 1960, with the Kennedy-Nixon debate. Kennedy
prepared for the debate by adding to his suntan. Weak
from a serious illness, Nixon appeared pale and feeble.
He had to wear makeup which was not considered
“macho” at that time. Rumor even had it that Nixon had
been sabotaged and made-up by a Democrat. Many be-
lieve that it was Nixon's heavy beard, suggesting a vil-
lian, that caused him to lose the debate.

Ford has stated that he had a dry throat throughout
his debate with Carter because his staff wanted no glass
of water on the podium for him to tip over. The people
who saw the Kennedy-Nixon debate on television

thought Kennedy won. Those who heard this debate
over the radio thought it was a draw. The people who
saw the Carter-Regan debate on television thought
Reagan won. Those who heard this debate over the radio
thought it was a draw. The reporters who covered these
debates considered the candidates to be in a deadlock,
however, in both cases, the candidate chosen as the win-
ner by the viewing audience was elected president.

I watched the debate between Mondale and Reagan
on T.V. Possibly, because | support Reagan, | found
myself watching him chuckle, smile. and gesture. If |
had heard the debate over the radio, | would have been
forced to give my full attention to the issues. Reagan's
performance suggests the possible advantage of having a
half-dozen or more debates over the radio. Nervous and
stumbling for words, Reagan appeared to be uncomfort-
able, when put on the spot. Through additional debates.
Reagan should be able to show his humor, charisma, and
communication skills.

Brown is a freshman from Charlotte. NC
