Friday, March 30, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

Deja Vu Epic: Gandhi Was Great, Gandhi Is Not

By MATT MORRIS

Gandhi opens promisingly. In a
stark, almost doumentary fashion the
viewer witnesses the Indian leader’s as-
sasination — there is a scuffle, crowds
run by, and the great man is dead. This
sequence is effective because, like many
political killings, the murder occurs with
startling speed. However, by the end of
this monstrous three-hour-plus epic, one
comes to the realization that, while Gan-

dhi may have been great, Gandhi isn’t.
The formula behind Gandhi seems
foolproof. Commandeered by Ben
Kingsely, in a completely corivincing
portrayal of the title character, the fas-
cinating story of India’s struggle for in-
dependence seems excellent cinema fod-
der. Yet, the epic “formula” is exactly
what destroys the film’s power. Through
the overrated lens of director Richard At-
the movie plods on the
convention, and sub-

tenborough,

treadmill of
sequently recalls older, far more “epic”
epic films. The works of David Lean im-
mediately come to mind — Lawrence of
Arabia and Dr. Zhivago — and itis obvi-
ous that Attenborough has studied these
films closely. Perhaps the enormously
staged massacre in Gandhi might have
been more affecting if Dr. Zhivago, with
all of its wildly brutal civil war scenes,

had never been filmed. As it 1s Gandhi

reeks of déja vu that just can’t be ig-
nored. ;

This “rip-off? method may have
worked, but Attenborough is no “movie”
director. His aesthetic would perhaps op-
erate well on the stage. In a film, how-
ever, where the action should move, a
nailed-down camera simply does not
work. Attenborough’s Indian back drop
suffers the most from this approach, for
where the film should entice the viewer’s
eye and probe the amalgamation of pov-
erty and mysticism in this Eastern world,
Gandhi settles for a Life Magazine style.
Aside from a few crowd scenes, a major-
ity of the film retains a “backlot feeling,”
and the sets seem suprisingly cheap for a
movie that was suppposed to have taken
twenty years to make.

The story itself is ultimately told ina
surprisingly conventional fashion with
no insight whatsoever into the characters
and their motivations. Perhaps Atten-
borough was so satisfied with the story
that he saw no reason to overwhelm the
viewer's eye.

And try as they may, the actors can-
not defeat the movie's stage-bound feel.
As the film develops its by-the-book epic
formula minus an analytic viewpoint,
one may well scream monotony when
Gandhi time and again starves himself.
Performances such as Yrand Weman an

through May 31, 1984.
¢ 1983, Hardees Food Systems, Inc

1

May 31, 1984.

c 1983. Hardees Food Systems, Inc

Cy

BEST EATIN'ALL AROUND !

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’,” bring
along this money-savin’ coupon.

"STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours
only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants

(dees

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR
FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79 = fi

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
participating Hardee’s Restaurants through

rlardees |

Nehru seem solid, but crumble in the
film’s two-dimensionality. | Candice
Bergen, in her “go-40’s” look is a com-
plete joke as a LIFE magazine reporter
(how appropriate).

That leaves Kingsely to carry the
show, and his performance gives the film
weight. His dark, searching eyes suggest
a rare perception. More than a political or
religious symbol, Gandhi was a man,
and Kingsely touches on this, particu-
larly in his outbreaks of pure emotion.

The sad fact, however, is that while At-
tenborough may have some very fine
“cattle” (to quote Hitchcock) he has not
effectively — or originally — told a story
through film. But since the movie ts
about the East, and us Westerners have a
natural guilt feeling towards that unap-
preciated corner of the world, Gandhi
broke box office records, was claimed a
masterpiece, and won eight academy
awards, including best picture and best
director. That’s Hollywood.

— Music

By STEPHEN MANK

Missing Persons is not the kind of
band to which one can readily adapt his
or her listening taste. It’s a rapid-fire
outgrowth of new wave with a very
fast, very big sound highlighted by the
no-holds-barred vocals of Dale Boz-
710.

The combo’s first album was met
with many critical arguments. The
band was very synthesized, and Boz-
zi0°s vocals had a bizzare tendancy to
crack, or hiccup — or something. By
their third LP Rhyme and Reason cri-
tics have realized that synthesizers, for
better or worse, are too far entrenched
into pop music to be the sole condemn-
ing factor of an album. Not only that,
but folks are actually getting used to
Bozzio’s voice.

Rhyme and Reason is basically a
very good album. The tunes are
snappy and the musicians are some of
the best the music industry has to offer
Consisting mostly of expatriates from
Frank Zappa's Mothers of Invention,
the band shows an attention to detail
and musicianship that rivals Zappa’s
own.

The songs on the album are quick
with lyrics that read more like a self-
improvement book than rock and roll:
“Give/ When you have anything at all
to give/ You have everything to live
for;/ Give all you've got to give./ after
you ve given all you can,/ Give again-
give again.” Lyrics like these are all
well and good, but George Harrison
has taught us time and again that
preaching does not make popular
music very popular.

Lyrical inadequacies, however,

Self-Improvement Rock

are a small drawback. The band is the
brainchild of Dale Bozzio’s husban
Terry. Terry Bozzio has played with
the Mothers and U.K., and over the
years has proven himself to be quite
possibly the best drummer in rock. He
tends to use synthesized drums a bit
excessively for such a master of ac-
-oustic drums but talent is talent. The
guitar work ts also exceptional, and on

songs like “The Closer that you Get”

switches adeptly from power chords to
delicate fretboard gymnastics and back

MISSING
PERSONS

again.

Dale Bozzio’s vocals have im-
proved with this latest disc. They are
very controlled but occacionally they
still do that thing (crack, hiccup, etc. ).

In spite of the sometimes inacces-
sible vocals and sometimes trite lyrics
the songs on Rhyme and Reason are
catchy and overpowering. The flaws
of the album are only apparent with
close listenings. As long as one 1s wil-
ling to sit in the back seat and let the
album take control, it is a fine listening
experience.

KING OF PIZZA

663-3030
225 S. Broad St.

Mooresville FAMILY NIGHT

Every Monday Night
5 To 10
PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE

FREE

as

