2

Friday, September 21, 1984/The Davidsonian

Brueggeman To Deliver Staley Lectures

Noted Christian scholar and writer Dr. Walter Brueggemann will visit
Davidson College next week under the auspices of the Staley Distinguished
Christian Scholar Lecture Series.

An ordained minister in the United Church of Christ, Brueggemann will
make three public appearances at Davidson. On Sunday he wilt preach during
the 11 a.m. service at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church on “Unnoticed
Sacraments.” At 8 p.m., he will speak at a vespers service on “The Painful Truth
of the Man.”

Brueggemann, who is Evangelical Professor of Biblical Interpretation at
Eden Theological Seminary in Webster Grove, Missouri, earned his A. B. de-
gree from Elmhurst College and holds graduate degrees in theology from Eden
Seminary and Union Theological Seminary. Brueggemann received a Ph. D. in
education from St. Louis University.

A former chairman of the Society of Biblical Literature’s Old Testament
Theology section, Brueggemann has been active in the Association of Theologi-
cal Schools and holds an editorial position with Interpretations magazine and
the Overtures Book Series.

Brueggeemann has written ‘numerous scholarly articles and has had articles
published in “Israelite Wisdom,” “The Journal of Biblical Literature,” and
“Horizons in Biblical Theology and Interpretations.”

Brueggemann, whose son Jim is a senior at Davidson, has written several
books including “The Bible Makes Sense,” “The Prophetic Imagination,”
“Praying the Psalms,” “Genesis” and “The Creative Word.”

The Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar Lecture Series was established
by the Thomas F. Staley Foundation and the late Thomas F. Staley, ’25.

Organized Crime Expert to Speak

Dan E. Moldea, a noted free-lance writer and nationally recognized expert
on the criminal underworld, will speak on “Organized Crime in America” at
7:30 p.m. Tuesday in the 900 Room of the College Union.

Moldea’s lecture will feature a discussion of organized crime’s links to the
Nixon and Reagan administrations, professional sports and America’s intelli-
gence-gathering agencies.

An investigative journalist, Moldea has devoted his life to the study of or-
ganized crime. His 1978 book, The Hoffa Wars, was chosen by the Book-of-the-
Month Club as an alternate selection and was syndicated by The New York
Times.

A controversial and outspoken critic of criminal elements within organized
labor, Moldea has served as an Associate Fellow at the Institute for Policy
Studies. He has also worked with NBC News, “The Detroit Free Press” and col-
umnist Jack Anderson.

Moldea has written for The London Observer, The Washington Post and
Playboy, and serves as a guest lecturer for Georgetown University. He is a
Washington, D. C. resident.

Joel Harrison To Give Faculty Recital

Music Professor Joel Harrison will present a recital at 8:15 p.m. next
Wednesday in Hodson Hall.

The program will include selections by Mozart, Brahms, Prokofiev, and
Chopin.

Harrison has earned a reputation as an exciting recitalist and accompanist.
He debuted in Carnegie Recital Hall in New York in 1982, and performs regu-
larly in the Carolinas and throughout the Northeast. His concert style and musi-
cal expertise have won him numerous scholarships and competitions.

Harrison is vice president of the North Carolna Music Teachers Association,
and a member of the Music Teachers National Association and the Association
of Anglican Musicians.

The performance, one in a series of free faculty recitals, is sponsored by the
Davidson College music department and is open to the public.

NEws SUMMARY

1984 Artists Series Tickets Now On Sale

Davidson College’s 1984 Artists Series features four performances of
drama, dance and music.

This year’s series begins October 17 with a performance entitled “Pieces of
8” by The Acting Company. The rest of the schedule includes a Christmas con-
cert by the Boston Camerata on December 2, a modern dance performance by
the Alvin Ailey Repertory Ensemble February 13 and a one-man performance of
P.G. Wodehouse’s Jeeves Takes Charge March 20.

“Pieces of 8” is comprised of one-act plays by eight contemporary playw-
rights, including Ring Lardner, Samuel Beckett, Edward Albee, Tom Stoppard
and Harold Pinter. The plays contain the common themes of disunity, disloca-
tion, and the absurdity of life. Tony and Obie award winner Alan Schneider will
direct the performance.

Founded by actor John Houseman, The Acting Company is the dramatic
touring group of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. This pro-
duction is made possible in part through a grant from the National Endowment
for the Arts.

Celebrating its 30th anniversary this year, the Boston Camerata comes to
Davidson to present an evening of medieval Christmas music. Featuring instru-
mental and vocal numbers under the direction of Joel Cohen, who has led the
group since 1968, the Camerata is recognized as one of the premier performers
of early music in the world.

The Alvin Ailey Repertory Ensemble brings it popular and critically
acclaimed dancers to the Campus in February. under the direction of Sylvia
Waters, a former Ailey dancer, the ensemble will present a repertoire of ballets.

Edward Duke’s one-man show of P.G.Wodehouse’s Jeeves Takes Charge
has played in Europe and the United States. Duke, a 30 year-old Englishman,
conceived the idea for the play and acts the part of all 12 characters. Critics have
praised the show for its wit, characterizations and amusing sets.

Single performance tickets will cost $8 and may be purchased two weeks
prior to each performance.

Series tickets are $24 for individuals, $44 for couples, and $15 dollars for
senior citizens.

Further information regarding tickets is available through the Davidson Col-
lege Union, telephone 892-2000, extension 174.

SGA Election Candidates

Dormitory and freshman SGA representatives will be chosen next week.
Candidates are as follows:

Little Dormitory: Jeanne Golding, David E. White

_. Sentelle: Steven White; Jim LaBrec, Jay Gaither, Kirk Kirkpatrick

. Cannon; Laura Raney, Melissa Ferguson

Duke: Timothy Nonville

Knox: Rachel Henning

Irwin: Christi Hayes, Horace Jennings, Brian Schockley, Betsy Downs

Richardson: Sally Schilling, Brooks Wilkerson, Linda Higbie, Cameron
Chalmers, Carol Gentry, Tracie Hill Mayes

Belk: Buddy Martin, Richard Busby, Dave Handy, Allen Compton, Rod
Cate, Jay Hurt, Doug Odom, Parker McCrary, Bob Boyd, Anil Jood, Jim Earle,
Tim Brown
“New” Dorm: Kim Powell, Mickey McDonald, Alex Maultsby
Off-Campus: Mary Griffin, Sheryl Aikman, Jim Kensen, Anne Miano
Freshman Senators: Allen Smith, James Whytsell, Michael Poulos, David
Cors, Dan Richard, Judy Hart, Gary “Chico” Simonian, Ken Mobley, Jay Kim,
Doug Saintsing, Derek Stirewalt, Andy Vaughn, Shelby Eich, Hugh Grant,
Richard Bright, Betsy Rothschild, Ginger Broaddus

Voting will take place from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Tuesday in the Post Office and
in Chambers. Run-off elections for most positions will be held Wednesday.

Cast Selected for Fall Production

The Theatre Department has selected the cast for its fall production. Misal-
liance, by Bernard Shaw, will be produced in October and November.

The cast includes Noel Brewster, Valerie Hinton, Dan Lindsey, Lance
Locky, John Marks, Dan Michaeles, Howie Moyes, Jennifer Poole and John
Syme.

STUDY ABROAD AT THE
ITHACA COLLEGE

ONDON CENTER

f™@ SEMESTER OR YEAR PROGRAM
@ ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT
@ BRITISH FACULTY

OURSES — British and European studies are

offered in literature, history. art history, drama,

usic, sociology, education, psychology,
ommunications, and politics. Special program
offered in Orama. internships available to
qualified students in International Business,

cial Services, Communications and Political

Stanley H. Kaplan

The Smart
VE!

P Visits to the theatre, museums, gaileri PREPARATION FOR:
’ ums, galleries, j6§ gia@™ ‘dn ee. Cee cc

chools, social and political institutions are 1 Providen .
lan integral part of the curriculum. Ho7- ca 0 ide ce GMAT - BOAT GRE
‘or further information write: :

nternational Programs - SP Suite B

thaca College Winston Salem, NC

thaca, New York 14850 27106 Pate KAPLAN

(919)723-7388 CENTER

