Friday, March 16, 1984/The Davidsonian 9

Kubrick’s Epic Traces Man’s Evolution In Space

By Craig Detweiler
2001: A Space Odyssey — (1968). Di-
rected by Stanley Kubrick. Starring Keir
Dullea and Gary Lockwood. ****

Can brutal, primeval man, a buzzing
black monolith, a dangerously “perfect”
computer, and vicitmized astronauts be
united to form a coherent, meaningful
work? In 2001: A Space Odyssey, Stan-
ley Kubrick attempts to fold these time-
less, mystical elements into a consistent,
monumental vision. With a_ brilliant
amalgamation of time, soundtrack,
story, special effects, and pacing, Kub-
rick achieves the lofty goals he sets for
his film.

Kubrick aspires to cover evolution
from the dawn of man to space travel in
the 21st century (which explains the title
2001 rather than 2000). An undefined,
pseudo-religious symbol, the black
monolith coexists with man from his pre-
rational stages to the depersonalized

computer age. Previously defenseless
and hungry, primeval ape-man displays
intelligence only after the monolith mys-
teriously appears. In two pivotal scenes,
the animalistic humans discover bones
which can be used as weapons to rule
lower animals and rival gangs. Once
primeval man begins to manipulate his
environment to his own advatage, Kub-
rick inserts one of the most famous trans-
itions in film history. As a hoisted bone
cuts to a floating spacecraft, one realizes
how little distance seperates modern man
from his primitive ancestors. When sci-
entists uncover a monolith buried on the
moon, they respond with the same awe,
interest, and wonder that the gorilla-men
demonstrated. After suggesting the mar-
ginal “real” progress of human civiliza-
tion, Kubrick provides an alarming vi-
sion of the dangers of computer technol-
ogy. Under the guidance of the faultless
computer H.A.L. (note what the letters
following H, A, and L are), the Discov-
ery I space mission heads for Jupiter, the

Sordi
rdid Affair
By STEVE MANK

Rockabilly was the mother. In

’ 1957 or so, in the able hands of south-

ern white trash, rhythm and blues and

country music were wed to form rave-

up music that lacked everything but
energy.

Punk was the father. In 1977 or so,

the dregs of British ghetto-dwellers in-

and drugs of the sixties in which one’s
talent was determined by his ability to
loft spit in the direction of his anxious
audience.

Together the two, in some sordid,
too passionate affair, produced a bas-
tard child found in the music of The
Cramps. Their new album Bad Music
for Bad People is a compilation of past
material. The title may seem humor-
ous but it is no joke — this music is.
bad.

The drumming is, to put it nicely,
spartan. The rhythm guitar is nothing
but power chords distorted to virtual
imperceptibility, while the lead guitar
is so poorly played it’s almost funny, if
not pitiful. There is no bass. The songs
mock their two parent music forms,
but in no subtle or amusing way.

So why listen to The Cramps? In
spite of its glut of shortcomings, Bad
Music for Bad People is very listena-
ble. The rhythms are gripping, the
guitar work tasty, and the vocals of
Lux Interior are genuinely fun.

Philosophical excursions like “life
is short/and full of stuff’ are the

~ trademarks of The Cramps. Their
lyrics are witty, and see southern and
British culture through the eyes of
Yankees. Songs like “Drug Train”
mock rock and roll classics like James
Brown’s “Night Train” as readily as
they mock the stimulant hopped-up
punks — “lift one foot up/lift another
foot up/lift another foot up/and you’re

Begat Cramps
< SERAMPS

stigated a reaction to the peace, love,

- is Horatian or Juvenalian, or even

iN

on board the Drug Train.”
But the best part of The Cramps is
that you cannot tell whether this satire

worse, serious. Most everyone who
listens to The Cramps likes them, but
with guilty feelings; after all, here you
are listening to distorted Halloween
rock and tapping your feet at the same
time. Yet that is just where The
Cramps’ beauty — if it can be called
that — lies. The music is so un-
abashedly bad that you are embarras-
sed to like it, but you do in spite of
yourself. Like rockabilly, like punk,
the Cramps lack everything but
energy, but in the wonderful world of
rock, energy is all you need to have ap-
peal — and the Cramps have plenty of
both.

Quick Pan

A deejay in Miami described Huey
Lewis a “Mr. Debonair himself.”
Lewis and the News have everything
but energy. The new album, Sports,
uses every trick in the book to sell, its
ace in the hole being the hit single “I
Want New Drug,” which found inevit-
able public approval. But the music is
still bland. Lewis is going to be famous
in his time for his hit-making ability
but in the long run, he will never be ad-
mired or remembered.

site of the monolith’s only recorded
transmission. As a computer with a
nearly human personality, H.A.L. dis-
plays a deadly will to survive. The fertile
human mind creates a machine which
cannot be controlled. Man degenerates
from the ruler of nature to the victim of
his own creation.

Beyond Kubrick’s moralizing about
the dangers of technology, 200/ involves
ineffable, eternal truths. In the conclud-
ing section titled “Jupiter and Beyond the
Infinite,” Kubrick’s masterwork be-
comes problematical, confusing, and
downright weird. The Discovery as-
tronaut David, eerily portrayed by Keir
Dullea, experiences a psychedelic, mind
blowing journey. Bold, flashy colors and
semi-terrestrial visions leave David and
the viewer stunned. When the trip
“beyond the infinite” ceases, the as-
tronaut finds himself in a sterile bed-
room.

As David appears to age rapidly, one
gathers a sense that he is an inhabitant of
an alien zoo. On the verge of dying, the
aged astronaut reaches to the ominous
monolith looming before him. Mysti-
cally transformed to a beautific fetus,
David, and mankind have come full cir-
cle. The external source of man’s intelli-
gence and humanness elevates man to an
eternal, existence. Whether representa-
tive of God, aliens, or Davidson College

professors, the sleek monolith brings
human beings into a glorified enviable
communion with nature and the univer-
se.

2001 succeeds because of the deliber-
ate, enthralling atmosphere that domi-
nates its two and one half hours. Kubrick
does not rely upon the spoken word, but
clever, evocative images and a stirring
soundtrack. Alternating from Richard
Strauss’ majestic “Thus Spoke
Zarathustra” to Johann Strauss’ melodi-
ous “Blue Danube,” 200/]’s soundtrack
conveys appropriate tones for the scenes
it enhances. The cold, sterile confines of
the Jupiter spaceship are emphasized by
H.A.L.’s calm, unemotional voice and
the piercing alarms that indicate trouble.
Even the authentic lack of sound in space
evoke the distant depersonalization that
characterizes the latter portion of 200/.
Kubrick’s wise uses of sights and sounds
result in the greatest science-fiction film
ever. The lofty thoughts and issues that
Kubrick aspires to make 200/ a conten-
der for claims to the greatest movie ever.

Reserve Saturday night for this mes-
merizing motion picture. It will con-
found, scare, dazzle, and absorb all who
view it. While one may not entirely com-
prehend its meaning and purpose, 200/
A Space Odyssey, \ike most great works
of art, cannot ultimately be summarized
or contained. It simply is.

Quiet Classic Looks For
Lite’s Tender Mercies

By MATT MORRIS

Can it be that America, where Brian
De Palma directs orgiastic gangster films
and Steven Spielberg reverts back to
childhood annually, has forgotten
movies that operate by the power of un-
derstatement?

No, and it has taken Australian direc-
tor Bruce Beresford to prove it, with this
year’s best picture Tender Mercies. Of
course, having brilliant actor Robert
Duvall along for the ride can’t hurt. His
remarkably understated performance
compliments this film, which, as you’re
watching it, shyly reminds you of some-
thing bigger above the humble surround-
ings. Breseford paints his film on a grand
Texas canvas, yet Tender Mercies is
never “arty” — instead the feeling is that
everyone involved merely sat down and
let the cameras roll, never allowing
stodgy intellectualism (which could have
artistically choked this movie) enter into
the set.

What remains is a truly remarkable
work, well worth anyone’s time, that op-
erates primarily on what people say and
do, which seems to be relatively little,
but is imminently fulfilling.

Robert Duvall, with grizzled chin
and baseball cap, walks into the role of
Mac Sledge, a troubled country and
western singer who, through the course
of the movie, puts together his life. And
basically, that’s-it. None of the affected-

ness that has ruined other such “‘slice-of-
life” films trickles in, and the movie re-
mains quietly morale-less. “I never
trusted happiness,” says Mac, “I never
did, I never will.” Paradoxes about hap-
piness are as inexplicable as the people
who discuss them, but in some way,
when Robert Duvall says that line, living
makes sense, if only for a moment.
Rosalie (Tess Harper), Mac’s wife, is a
simple enough woman with simple de-
mands: she loves her child and her God.
Beresford makes no “statement” here —
he shows the principle characters in
times of joy and, just minutes away,
grief. Sure life isn’t fair, but stick with it.
When Mac momentarily falls back to his
drinking days, the audience roots for him
to hang in, keep breathing, keep living,
but for no apparent reason other than to
receive the tender mercies the ones who
love him will always offer.

Betty Buckley of “Cats” fame turns
in a memorable performance as Mac’s
former wife Dixie Scott, now a popular
country singer. She represents the world
Sledge has left behind, but it would not
be fair to say that Mac has actually
gained anything by leaving Opry land.
His surroundings have merely changed.
He still doesn’t trust happiness. What
makes Tender Merciesa quiet classic is
its ability to encourage the viewer to be-
lieve in the next moment, the next sec-
ond. and cherish it.
