2

Friday, May 4, 1984/The Davidsonian

Former South Korean Prisoner To Speak |

Lee Shin-Bom, a former prisoner of conscience in South Korea, will be
speaking about his experiences Wednesday at Open Luncheon, and in the 900
Room at 7 p.m. He is the first Amnesty International Prisoner of Conscience to
speak at Davidson. He suffered imprisonment and torture, and was released
Christmas 1982 after having been adopted by A. I. two years earlier. He now
lives in the United States. His visit is being sponsored by the Speakers Commit-
tee and Davidson Amnesty International.

College Bowl Wins Southeast Regionals

The Davidson College Bowl team closed its season on a glorious note by
beating | 1 teams to win the Southeast Regional Invitational tournament held at
Georgia Feehnical Institute in Atlanta over the weekend of April 20-21.

This was the team’s first year at the tournament. It defeated regional pow-
erhouses Emory University , Georgia Tech and North Carolina State. Exclaimed

team member David Sisk, “we kicked [them] so hard that Emory coach and Col-

lege bowl power Lloyd Busch remarked, ‘I’m scared of you guys.’”

The team consists of senior John Eglin, juniors Chris Blake, Tim Waples,
and David Sisk, sophomore alternate Sarah Beasley and Coach Hansford Epes.
Despite the victory in the Southeast, the team will not go to the national cham-
pionship.

Alumni Fundraising Effort Opens In Houston

Davidson College alumni and friends will host a May 9 reception and dinner
for college president-elect Dr. John W. Kuykendall ’59 in conjunction with a
major fundraising effort in the Houston area.

The reception will be held at the Houston Country Club, followed by an 8
p.m. private dinner. More than 150 guests from Houston, Austin, San Antonio,
and Corpus Christi are expected to attend.

During the reception Dr. Kuykendall will meet alumni, parents, and friends
and discuss his plans for Davidson and his perceptions of its future.

At the dinner, Kuykendall and Davidson College Vice-president for De-
velopment Jack W. Powers will discuss Davidson’s fundraising successes to
date and the college’s future fundraising challenges.

The Houston campaign will deal in part with a recently announced decision ©
by the Board of Trustees to establish the Dean Rusk Endowment for Interna-
tional Studies with a total funding goal of $10 million. A recent campaign in
Dallas, Texas, where Henry Kissinger served As keynote speaker, has currently.
generated more than $250,000. In Atlanta, where the national campaign was
launched in October, more than $600,000 has been raised. In March The Duke
Endowment of North Carolina awarded Davidson $1 million.

Ethics Discussion Highlights Convocation

The liberal arts have never been more critical as preparation for the profes-
sions. That message was delivered at Davidson College’s Spring Convocation
Friday by one of America’s most eminent figures i in the field of medical ethics,
Dr. Edmund Pellegrino.

Pellegrino is director of the Joseph and Rose Kennedy Institute of Ethics and
John Carroll professor of medicine and medical humanities at Georgefown Uni-
versity.

Davidson seniors and faculty members donned full academic regalia to hear
him speak and to witness the presentation of numerous awards, including honor-
ary doctor of science degrees to Pelligrino and Dr. John B. Graham, °38 alumni
distinguished professor of pathology at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill.

Pellegrino said that the study of liberal arts provides students with the intel-
lectual skills and attitudes to enhance medical ethics.

Medicine's technological capacity to prolong or deny life and to manipulate
genetics makes medical “a cauldron of all the questions that have faced
humanists for centuries,” he said.

Pellegrino is a fellow or member of more than 20 scientific, professional,
and honorary societies.

Graham, a native of Goldsboro, has served on ‘dozens of UNC committees
since joining the pathology faculty there in 1946. He has been program director
or principal investigator for numerous grants in genetics and population studies
under the sponsorship of the National Institutes for Health and the Rockefeller
Foundation,

More than two dozen students also received honors for accomplishments i in
academic fields, campus service, and personal character. Following i is a listing
of those awards:

~-Bremer German Language Award: ‘Senior Cart Rist.

: Jefferson Davis Award for the study. of cancel law: junior Mark Bat-

NEwsS SUMMARY

ten and senior William Hall.

David Halbert Howard Jr. Chemistry Award: junior Andrew Harrison.

McGavock Mathematics Award: senior Hunter Monroe and senior Eric
Fink.

A.K. Phifer Award for economics: junior Murray Simpson

The Presser Award for music: junior Laura McDonald.

Richard Ross Music Award: senior Jane Redd.

Susan Roberts Award for women’s intercollegiate athletics: senior Laura
Hills. ~.

Thomas D. Sparrow Award. for intercollegiate athletics: senior Peter Burr.

_ George C. Marshall ROTC Award: senior Bradley McCall.

* James Baker Woods II Memorial Award for ROTC: junior William Rast.

C. Shaw Smith Award for service to the student union: junior John Munson.

Daniel Blain Woods Award for premedical students: junior Judy Redd.

Sandy Black Memorial Award for premedical students: junior Greg Mur-
phy.

The James A. Chapman Jr. Annual Honor Award for promise in business:
junior Frederick H. Garner IV.

Rebecca E. Stimson Award for womens athletics and leadership: senior
Susan Hilton.

Tommy Peters Award for athletic and leadership: senior Kenny Wilson.

Eumenean Literary Society Award: senior Pat Donley Jr.

Philanthropic Literary ‘Society Awards: juniors Mark Batten and Joseph
Bossong Jr.

Charles Malone Richards Award for preministerial students: junior Sarah
Speed.

Agnes Sentelle Brown Award for outstanding character and scholarship:
junior Hunter Roddey.

George L. Gladstone Award for service and leadership: junior Beth Maczka.

The Omicron Delta Kappa national leadership society presented its annual
teaching award to English Professor Cynthia Lewis.

Additionally, the following students were selected for membership in Omic-
ron Delta Kappa (ODK), a national leadership society: juniors Charles Blake II,
Joseph Bossong, Craig Detweiler, Frederick Garner IV, John Laughlin, Laura
McDonald, Nancy Rosselot, Murray Simpson and Timothy Waples; seniors
Caroline Boudreau, Richard Graves, Sherry Lind and Elizabeth Findlay.

Town Day To Be Held Saturday

Davidson Town Day will begin tommorow morning with the YMCA Fun
Run, which will begin on the Village Green at 9 a.m., followed by the five mile
run at 9:30 a.m. The Town Day Parade will begin on Railroad Street at 11 a.m.
and will feature the Davidson Town Band, several community groups, and a
procession of the young and young at heart. Anyone interested is invited to par-
ticipate.

There will be booths located around the green to provide a variety of food,
games, and exhibits. Different groups will be selling plants, bulbs, toys, cook-
books, Town Day T-shirts, and more. The Carolina Raptor Center will exhibit
live birds of prey.

Live entertainment on the green will be provided from 12 noon to 3 p.m. and
will feature the YMCA street dancers, a Karate demonstration, several singing
groups and Bill Giduz and the Davidson College Juggling Club.

During the afternoon a check from the fall CROP walk will be presented to
representatives from the Davidson Hot Lunch Program.

Tuition Rising Faster Than Inflation Rate

Tuitions at many schools next year promise to go up faster than-the inflation
rate, according to recent announcements by administrators around the country.

Schools as diverse as Loyola of Maryland, Metropolitan Community Col-
leges of Kansas City, and the universities of Missouri and Rochester have al-
ready announced price hikes for next year that are more than double the current
annual inflation rate of 4.6 percent.

New Hampshire, the State University of New York system, Syracuse,
Lehigh, the Georgia State system, Miami, Kentucky, DePaul, Oklahoma, New
Mexico, Bismarck Junior College, Stanford, and the California community col-
lege system, among many others, have recently unveiled plans to raise tuition
for the 1984-85 academic year by more than 7.5 percent.

The hikes, moreover, follow a year of double-digit increases for students.

For example, it costs 12 percent more to attend a four-year public college
this year than it did last year, according to the College Board’s annual college
cost survey.

‘Four-year private college tuition went up | 1 percent, while two-year campus
tuitions increased by nine percent, the survey found. .

Though national averages for 1984-85 school year tuition hikes won’t be

-compiled until next fall, recent announcements by individual colleges suggest °
“the upward tuition spiral will continue. _—_

 * a

cd

