6 Friday, April 13, 1984/The Davidsonian

Holocaust Poetry Represents Inner Conflict

By IDA PHILLIPS

Dr. Isaac Levy, a professor of languages, presented
a slide show and lecture on “The Poetic Interpretation of
the Holocaust” Sunday night at the Philanthropic Liter-
ary Society for the general public.

Levy’s lecture focused on the poetry of the Sephar-
dic Jewish people, which was created in response to their
ordeals in World War II concentration camps. The
Sephardim people originated in Spain, but their ances-
tors left that country in 1492 and moved into Turkey,
Italy, Greece, and North Africa. During the war, be-
tween 100 and 150 thousand Separdic people were im-
prisoned in German concentration camps.

A Sephardic Jew himself, Levy began studying their
culture in 1982, after noticing a severe lack of literature
about the Sephardic peoples’ role in the holocaust. Levy
had researched the holocaust since 1959, but noted that
most historical studies of the Jewish nightmare “hardly
evoked emotional response.”

Levy found this missing human emotion in the artis-
tic outpouring of the Sephardim. By interviewing sur-
vivors of the concentration camps and reading Sephardic
newspapers, Levy discovered a wealth of unpublished
poetry. He believes the poetry represents the Sephardim

survivors’ inner conflicts between wanting “to
forget . . . and to remind people of the holocaust so the
world would never forget.”

Interspersing his readings of the poems with slides of
Sephardic paintings and burial monuments, Levy
created an image of a people struggling to cope with a
questionable existence. A survivor whom Levy intervie-
wed recalled his belief that “the only way to survive was
by writing or painting.”

Levy’s poetry selections offered a wide range of the
Sephardic people’s responses to their ordeal. An over-
riding conflict appeared to exist between the people’s
desire to forget the nightmare, and the temptation to
create mental images of the ordeal. Levy began his read-
ings with a verse by Ruth Beker that combined the two
sides of this conflict:

Don’t.
Don’t show me any more pictures.

I don’t want to know

about children in horse carts

about men in cattle carts

about women being taken away

about mass goodbyes, unearthly cries . . .

The Blues Brothers:
Contagious Fun Flows Right To Audience

The poetry also revealed people torn by feelings of
remorse. Levy interpreted the words of Esther. Morguey
Algranti as indicating her “personal guilt” about surviv-
ing the concentration camps. Algranti asked the ques-
tion, “Why are you still alive,/ When six million others
lost their lives?”

Reflecting on the other side of the issue, Hanna
Seneach emulated the memories of those who died.
Levy expressed her belief that there was “no greater sac-
rifice than to face willingly the firing squad or the stink
of gas.”

One of the greatest indications of the futility of the
Sephardic people was expressed in those poems which
deal with the meaning of the holocaust. Levy interpreted
the work of Perahia and Kadia Molodowsky as question-
ing the motives of God. A poem by an anonymous writer
reflects what Levy termed the “excruciating question of
‘why?’”:

When will it end — O Holy Father! —
The tragedy of Your People . . .

Levy is the coordinator of the Division of Spanish
and Portuguese at the University of South Carolina. He
is married to Davidson anthropology Professor Rosem-
ary Zumwalt.

By MATT MORRIS

John Landis was the progenitor. He
was the first director to make a cameo ap-
pearance as an ape in a movie called
Schlock. He was the first director to
make a film called Schlock. In a sense.
Landis has been the hero of a new genre
of film-making, the inevitable “TV gen-
eration” school, where good cinema is
equivalent to gross proportions and men
imitating acne. Comic books, B-west-
erns, and science fiction (these days es-
sentially the same thing) are remembered
fondly in the mind of a schlock film- ‘\
maker.

While Steven Spielberg had a close
encounter with a great white shark and
George Miller was editing a punk-power
masterpiece called Mad Max on his
kitchen table (literally), Landis, the king
of this pop-cinema culture, directed a
$30 million film about two men who
wear sunglasses that is — dare I say it —

moments than Matt “Guitar” Murphy.

The jokes run wild and free, but the
movie retains a concrete coolness
throughout which places The Blues
Brothers a level above sheer silliness.
When Dan Ackroyd says simply and
Jack Webbishly, “We're musicians,”
one may view the brothers’ mystique as
parody, but at the same time Ackroyd ac-
tually seems to mean it. These guys are
cool, and Landis’ urban realism (always
in a Daffy Duck manner) leaves no doubt
of that. ;

In the mad, mad world of 1984, who
could possibly be better mythological
heroes than the Blues Brothers —
shielded by sunglasses from a world they
never made. Their music is outdated
soul; Jake and Elwood are cast out of any
musical scene (they get kicked out of aC
& W bar anda soul coliseum), and when
they try to do a little honest charity busi-
ness, society collapses in a grand C. B.

great. The Blues Brothers is the movie
schlocker fans everywhere have been

Dan Ackroyd and John Belushi: the Blues Brothers.

de Mille tradition. No, The Blues
Brothers isn’t enlightening, but amidst
the film’s buxomness, there is a wit that

waiting for.

Jake and Elwood Blues (John Belushi
and Dan Ackroyd, respectively) are a
Laurel and Hardy team with soul — basi-
cally good guys. Their cause (and the
movie's) turns out to be (are you ready
for this) that old reliable Shirley Temple
motif — the master musicians are inter-
ested in helping out an orphanage(').
That is the movie’s first joke.

The film’s second joke is its elephan-
tine budget. Like all schlock art, The
Blues Brothers emphasizes a hole-in-the
pocket financial ethic. The film cost a fat
30 million. As the movie progresses (or
digresses, it depends on your point of
view), trucks, tanks, bridges, buildings,
and hundreds of cars are wiped off the
map. A shopping center is pulverized,
and a telephone booth is even sent into
orbit. Holy cow, there’s even a chase
scene involving several thousand SWAT
men, half a zillion police officers, a

Picasso statue, and that guru of gross
comedy, John Candy.

However, this chaos amounts to only
part of the budget. Landis has wisely al-
lotted a large sum of bread to the casting
department, and the virtuoso musical
personnel (particularly Aretha Franklin
and Ray Charles). Landis’ suprisingly
joyful destruction aesthetic make The
Blues Brothers unexpectedly tun.

The action is constantly rolling, and
Landis glides over any possible flabbi-
ness as a comic-book would. Just when
the film touches on excess, a quick
“meanwhile” cut is inserted. The entire
cast seems to be having a great time, and
the contagious fun flows right out into
the audience.

The musical numbers are particularly
rousing, capturing some of the finest soul
on screen, When Cab Calloway sings
“Minnie the Moocher,” audience fervor

rises to ecstasy. A Ham ‘N’ Eggs-type’

restaurant is musical clay in Aretha
Franklin’s hands, as she grooves through
a musical duet with the band. Nobody —
nobody — plays “The Peter Gunn
Theme” better or at more appropriate

can’t be denied. Perhaps the most -deca-
dent exercise in deficit spending since
the New Deal, The Blues Brothers is
great fun.

KING OF PIZZA

663-3030
225 S. Broad St.
Mooresville

FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night
— §7010

PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE

