Wednesday, December 12, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

SPE Move To Court

Faces PCC

By ROSS HOLT

The Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity’s
proposal for moving on campus has run
into opposition from the Patterson Court
Council (PCC). Ata Nov. 28 meeting of
the Council on Campus and Religious
Life (CCRL), PCC President Murray
Simpson read a statement that set up
criteria under which the PCC would ap-
prove a SPE return to Patterson Court.

SPE had asked the CCRL to be al-
lowed to return to campus, Operating a
court house as a social facility only.
Fraternity members would continue to
eat at the Commons. Though SPE has
agreed to accept self-selection and to op-
erate under the Patterson Court system,
the proposed eating arrangement drew
fire from the PCC.

Simpson said in his statement that
permitting SPE to exist on the court with-
out operating as an eating house “skews
the nature of the court.” He said prob-
lems include whether houses will be
made available to other groups for social
uses only, the threat of Patterson Court
becoming a “fraternity row” which sim-
ply offers social activities, whether or
not financially unstable eating houses
could resort to social affiliation to stay
afloat, and potential oral encouragement
difficulties given that fraternity members
would eat with freshmen.

Opposition

SPE president Steve MacMillan
charged that the PCC and student mem-
bers of the CCRL had serious conflicts of
interest in the matter. “Opposition is
coming from people who have vested in-
terests,” he said. “Everybody’s worrying
about us draining from the rest of the
court,” he added.

MacMillan said SPE was simply of-
fering students another alternative. “Two
houses are sitting empty on Patterson
Court. We are offering to put one to use,”
he said. “We are offering another option
to the students and the court,” he added.

Simpson said the PCC wants to main-
tain the “unity and equitable balance of
houses on the court.” He said the only
way to continue that balance with SPE on
the court would be if the fraternity oper-
ated an eating house.

Dean of Students Will Terry, who
chairs the CCRL, said the Nov. 28 meet-
ing served to open discussion on the
issue. Terry said the proposed move has
implications for the future of Patterson
Court whether or not those implications
are good or bad. “I think that’s what
we’re really trying to find out, if that’s a
step we want to take,” he added. SPE
proposed returning to Patterson Court
after the town Board of Adjusters denied
the fraternity special use zoning of its
house at 409 N. Main Street last May.

Vespers Service.

Choir members process into DCPC for Sunday night’s Christmas

Sentelle Dorm Hall Warned On Drug Use

By TED WILSON

At the beginning of December,
Housing Director Bill Bolding sent a let-
ter to all residents of first floor Sentelle,
stating “I have been receiving complaints
about the use of pot [marijuana] on this
floor from other students.”

He also wrote, “The presence of pot
on this hall has become so widely rec-
oginzed that, in line with College policy,
I feel some intervention is necessary.”

Bolding required the members of the
hall to attend a meeting on Dec. 4 with
Drug Counselor Campbell Peery. No
other adminstrators or students were per-
mitted to attend, and students absent
were required to see Peery privately and
pay for the visit, according to sophomore
Greg Smouse. Bolding said the meeting
“was not aimed at discipline. [It] was try-
ing to get some good info. out to people.”

Bolding said he sent the letter be-
cause “people have been coming up to
me complaining about pot. I have no spe-
cific names [of users] nor do I want
names.”

He said the new drug policy man-
dates that the school’s first intervention

in a case like this is for the student(s) to
meet with the drug counselor. “Then if
we have problems, we take it to the Dean
of Student’s office.” He stressed that the
meeting with Peery ‘“‘was a means to in-
tervene giving everyone the benefit of
the doubt.”

Bolding added, “the intervention is
not to say that everyone on the hall does
drugs.” He said “they [students] know
that any time we respond (to an indi-
vidual or a hall) to situations that are il-
legal, you have been warned that we are
aware of the situation and if it comes up
again, we’re going to take further ac-
tion.”

Bolding emphasized the school is try-
ing to build “helping relationships to put
out some good, reliable information.
They [students] need to be aware of the
situation.”

Peery said, neither denying nor con-
firming he met with the hall, his service
to the school is “not to search out drugs
and alcohol but to provide a service to
those who are addicted, are having a
problem, or are living an abusive lifes-
tyle.” He would not comment specific-

ally on anything pertaining to Bolding’s
letter to first Sentelle.

Smouse said Peery ‘“‘seemed sincere;
he came across as straightforward. He
said, ‘whether there is a problem or not,
you guys are going to have to live with
t.’”

Smouse said “Peery was a go-be-
tween (for) the adminstration and stu-
dents. He said he was there in our inter-

est.” One student who chose not to attend -

the meeting said ‘‘a meeting should not
be made mandatory for those who do not
use drugs.”

Smouse said, of the letter, “Most
guys think there is not a problem, but if
there is one, it’s not a hall problem, but
one regarding a few select individuals.”

Smouse said, “It's a loud, boisterous
hall; if they want to give us a hard time
because we’re loud, that’s O.K., be-
cause we are; but to blame hall behavior
on drugs other than alcohol is silly and
makes for a very convenient excuse on
the administrator’s part.”

He said, “many members of the hall
said the college is using first Sentelle as
an example to prove that it isn’t going to

tolerate excessive drug use at Davidson
— which is bogus because if there is a
drug problem on this hall there is a drug
problem on almost every hall at David-
son.”

While one student said “there are
probably a few more people on this hali
who use drugs,” another resident said he
“did not know” about how much drug use
there was “but it certainly is not in the
amounts to warrant whatever happened."

Bolding said “there are some quan-
titative differences” between first Sen-
telle and other halls. There have been
more damages, more complaints pertain-
ing to that hall and more requests for
people to move that come to our atten-
tion. It’s not a situation we have on all
halls.”

Peery said of the College's role, “It
the administration wanted to be punitive
they wouldn’t provide me but would use
student vice officers. The administration
by the act of having me here is aware that
it [the drug problem] is a national real-
ity.”” He said Davidson is providing a
way for those who can’t deal with their
drug problem.

P.E. Failures May Appear On Transcripts

By LISA THOMAS

“We're trying to put some credibility
back into what we want to do in meeting
the P. E. requirement,” Director of
Physical Education Sterling Martin said
about the practice of recording failed
P. E. courses on students’ permanent re-
cords.

Last spring term, a policy was im-
plemented whereby P. E. instructors
turn in grade sheets, with grades given on
a pass-fail basis. All P. E. grades are re-
corded on the student’s permanent record
and on the grade reports received by par-
ents and students, but only those courses
which the student passed appear on trans-

cripts sent from the Registrar’s office.

Registrar Richard Burts said the
change was prompted by a suggestion
from Vice-President of Academic Af-
fairs and Dean of Faculty T.C. Price
Zimmermann that the College's in-
creased computer capacity could be used
more extensively in P. E. registration
and grading.

Currently, the Registrar's office re-
gisters students for P.E. courses and then
gives class rosters to the department. Un-
less P. E. courses are dropped through
the Registrar’s office, students who do
not attend the required number of classes
receive failing grades on their records
and grade reports.

Martin said many students sign up for
several P. E. classes in order to secure a
place in at least one of them. This “over-
subscription” excludes interested stu-
dents while some who are enrolled have
no intention of attending, he said.

Last spring’s changes made a lot of
people nervous, Martin said. “I think the
message has now gotten about.” Burts
said he received a lot of calls over the
summer from students questioning the
failing grades. According to Martin, ‘the
only way to communicate to the students
is through their grade reports.”

Martin said since physical education
classes are non-credit courses they elicit
a casual attitude on the part of students.

He also attributeu . me of the confusion
to a lack of communication between the
administration, the students, and the
Physical Education department. Martin
added that ‘‘a casual attitude does not ex-
cuse negligence.”

An additional change currently under
consideration is the inclusion of failed
P. E. courses on student transcripts as
well as on permanent records. Burts said
“in order to be even-handed with the
P. E. department, a// physical education

* requirements should appear on the trans-

cript. You cannot fail a French class and
choose not to have it appear on your
transcript.”
