4 Friday, April 20, 1984/The Davidsonian

Peace Coalition Works For Nuclear Awareness

By ROXANNA GUILFORD

This past week, through films,
speakers, a play and a workshop, the
Davidson Peace Coalition (DPC) has at-
tempted to increase campus awareness of
and involvement in “Peacemaking in a
nuclear age.”

According to College Chaplain Char-
lie Summers, the emphasis of this past

week has been on “personal issues and
first step responses.” Terming the ap-
proach “introductory,” he pointed out
that, regarding the nuclear arms race,
“the vast majority pretend it is not a prob-
lem or that it does not affect them.”
Although much of the week had been
planned since last term, a lot of the things
“just fell together,” according to DPC

‘DCF Is Dead’

(continued from page |)

The move to kill DCF floated among
the leaders for much of the year, said
Ivey. But the question was not seriously
considered until sevéral weeks ago. DCF
had no fixed membership, according to
Ivey, so the 10 Fellowship leaders made
the decision. Then the leaders explained
their decision individually to those who
attended DCF.

Ivey said the decision was kept secret
because plans were not final until the last
minute, and to further heighten the
drama of the break between old and new.

The announcement pleased many.
Junior Roxanna Guilford said, “it’s re-
ally a good idea if the changes do make it
more inclusive. | do have doubts as to

whether they can really change. But I do

. think they are really sincere in their con-

cerns. I am hopeful.”

Dean of Students Will Terry agreed
killing the organization was a good
move. “It’s very positive, very refresh-
ing to have a group admit they messed up
and mend their ways,” he said.

But some were not so sure. College
Chaplain Charlie Summers felt that the
break-up was “not particularly needed. It
was possible to correct the problems
without disbanding.” He also doubted
that any new organization would produce
a radical difference. “I think they will ba-
sically be the same structure and ideas
but with a new name.” he said.

member Kerry Holbrook. Much of the
credit, according to fellow member
Elizabeth Wintermute, goes to the new
members who brought with them many
new ideas, and are mostly responsible for
the theme “What Can I Do?”

‘Members are neither extremely op-
timistic nor pessimistic about the DPC’s
effect this week or overall. Some mem-
bers expressed disappointment about the
turnout. Summers attributed much of this
to a lack of awareness and concern about
the possibility of nuclear war. But he
does see an increased interest displayed
by the campus. The Nuclear Arms
Course and the Nuclear Awareness
branch of the “Y” are but two examples.

Summers also points to the
Peacemaking Small Group that he has
helped bring into being this year. Inde-
pendent from DCF, this group ap-
proaches the issues of peace, violence,
and nuclear awareness from a Christian
perspective. ;

Summers noted an increased aware-
ness on the part of the faculty, but as
Wintermute and Holbrook point out, fac-
ulty attendance at this week's events has
been disappointing. Nevertheless, the
events of the week were intended as an
introduction, and the DPC remains cauti-
ously optimistic that it has brought some

significant issues to the attention of the
campus.

The DPC is a relatively new force on
campus. As the Peace Coalition, it came
into being during the 1982-83 school
year. The impetus, according to Sum-
mers, came from a short course in the
1981-82 school year: “You can stop the
arms race.” Prior to that, there had “been
a lull in peacemaking activities on cam-
pus.”

The short course stirred enough inter-
est that philosophy professor Bob
Maydole helped start the Nuclear Arms
Race course through the Center for Spe-
cial Studies. At about that time, Sum-
mers, Debbie Williams, Ruth Pittard and
others, helped organize a Ground Zero
Week on campus. With the interest of
various students aroused by these events,
the DPC was formed.

A network of concerned campus

members, the DPC has been working
since its inception to increase campus
awareness and discuss alternatives to the
Status quo. Its theme, according to Hol-
brook, can be found in the words of one
of her favorite songs:
“One hand can’t tear the prison down, two
hands can’t tear the prison down/ But if two
and two and fifty make a million, We'll see
that day come round — We'll see that day
come round”

Briscoe Tells Of Torture In Zimbabwe

(continued from page |)

prison conditions. “Food consisted of
stiff corn porridge and scraps of inedible
meat,” he said. He was allowed no books
or writing material, and was allowed out
of his cell for only 30 minutes a day.
“From a very early stage | discovered |
would not be allowed to see my lawyer,”
he said. His bed consisted of three nine-
inch planks nailed to supports, and his
blanket was “crawling with bedbugs and
lice.“

Though beatings continued, Briscoe
refused to confess. “There was no way |
was going to confess to something I
hadn't done. It becomes pride, it be-
comes everything else.”

When Briscoe was taken from prison
by Zimbabwe’s Fifth Brigade. he knew
the worst was ahead of him. “They [the
Fifth Brigade] are Mugabe’s private
army of North Korean-trained thugs. If
anybody sees a list of atrocities in Zim-
babwe, it is these soldiers that are re-
sponsible.” He called the Fifth Brigade
“totally political, totally barbarous.”

Fifth Brigade soldiers hooded and
handcuffed Briscoe, took him to the
town of Mreua, and forced him to lie
down outside the police station. “I was
prepared to die. As far as I was con-
cerned, death at that stage would have
been fine.” Instead, soldiers placed elec-
trodes on his neck and the base of his
spine, and administered shocks.

“I felt what can best be described as
thousands of red-hot hypodermic needles
going the length of my spine,” he said.
“The shocks were so strong I could taste
the electricity in my mouth.” Briscoe still

refused to give a confession, until he was _

a

told that his wife and two children would
be killed in front of him.

Briscoe confessed, and was finally
allowed to see a lawyer. He and other de-
tained Air Force officers arranged a press
conference, and international publicity
aided Briscoe’s situation. He credited the
U.S. government for its help. “Vice-
President Bush made sure that we'd be
tried in open court,” he said.

“The state case was so farcical as to
be non-existent,” Briscoe said. Zim-
babwe's first black judge acquitted Bris-
coe and other officers last August 21. As
they left the courtroom police re-arrested
the defendants on the same charges. In-
ternational opinion condemned the
Mugabe government for the action, and
the police soon released Briscoe. The last
officers were released in December.

“Torture is on the increase,” Briscoe
said. “It’s not just in Zimbabwe. It’s ev-
erywhere. Wherever you look there's
torture.” Briscoe cited international gov-
ernment pressure as the key to halting
this escalation. “I believe that incidents
of torture should be condemned at the
highest level of government,” he said.
“Those who aren't against torture are for
it.”

Vereen Bell And Windley Hall Awards

and sym-
bolism, and frequently draw upon his
past experiences. His subjects range
from the mystery of suicide, to frozen
black widows, and from snake-bitten
toddlers, to a marriage above an X-rated
movie house.

Dave Smith said his poetry writing
“makes the period come alive; it dredges
the memory.” He added, concerning his
readers, “I want to stir their memory.”

The Vereen Bell Award is given an-
nually to upperclassmen in memory of
Vereen Bell °32, an accomplished writer
who was killed in World War II. Each
year an eminent writer is chosen to pick
the most outstanding three works submit-
ted from the categories of poetry and fic-
tion.

The english department judges the

_freshman award, which is given in the

memory of R. Windley Hall, °63, who
died while attending graduate school.

(continued fram page 1)

We know things drunk or dreaming

We Know Things Drunk Or Dreaming

that sober we want to bind and catechize into a corner and forget,
or disguise as our Aunt Margaret with sideburns
and buttocks that spread out and up — even sideways,
ignoring the laws of beauty and balance and gravity.
Sober we are embarrassed for the baboon’s buttocks,
and our Aunt Margaret who has been fuckless these many years
and cannot help the way she looks at young boys,
or the blazing buttocks of the baboon.
Only drunk and dreaming do we know
the smooth jog and ripple of buttocks dancing,
the jut of buttocks standing, the baboonish spread of buttocks sitting,
__ that sober we powder and perfume and girdle,
and disguise as our Aunt Margaret
smelling and spreading baboon and human before us.

’ “Lauren Smith

