10 Friday, February 17, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ann Meador, Editor David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

Close Call

The incident at Harding House last Friday night shows the Col-
lege’s security system has faults which need a remedy. That it took
such “a close call” to show this inadequacy should tell those in
charge of campus security that immediate action is needed. If the
College can tolerate a near-assault, how would it deal with the lia-
bility of an actual rape?

Resources are available for improving campus security. The
Duke endowment has given the College $30,000 for a new dis-
patcher system for campus police. It should go toward up-grading
the present dispatching system which failed last Friday. The town
of Davidson has initiated efforts to improve the dispatching system
before, but the College has not implemented or acted upon any of
them. The SGA passed a resolution last spring calling for improved
security. Again, the College ignored a justified appeal for greater
safety. Clearly, students aren’t the only ones who procrastinate
here.

We encourage the Trustees to recognize the urgent needs of the
campus outlined in the SGA’s resolution which will be presented at
the Trustees’ February meeting.

The most effective solution would be an arrangement with the
College and town to share a more efficient dispatching system.
Davidson chief of Police Jack Warlick and Campus Police Chief
Jackie Hughes have submitted a plan to Grover Meetze, director of
campus security, which calls for such an arrangement.

Still, Friday’s incident should make students more aware of the
potential for assault or other such dangers — even at Davidson.

The Best Qf Luck

Our deepest sympathies go to those poor fellow Davidsonians
who were not chosen to be hall counselors for next year. Yes, we
know that it is one of the school’s most important and prestigious
student positions, but there’s more to life than being a hall coun-
selor.

True, you will miss out on another year of freshman living, but
look at all the opportunities that await you. The SGA, Phi Society,
The Miscellany, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, DCF, Young
Republicans, Young Democrats for that matter — oh, these and
many other student organizations are more than willing to accept
your service.

As for the new hall counselors, we wish you the best of luck.
We know you are prepared for the challenging task before you.

Ross Holt and David McGee will take office as editors of The
Davidsonian at the beginning of next term. We wish them the best
of luck, too. ;

News Staff: David McGee, Assistant News Editor: Boyd ‘Blackbum, Roxanna Guilford, Rand
Hartsell, Bob Loper, Wayne Magruder, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal, Tom Schilling, Julie
Sternal, Lisa Thomas, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

‘Arts and Entertainment Staff: Ida Phillips, Assistant Arts and Entertainment Editor, Miguel
Abreu, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Mortis, Tim Waples, Andrew Wilson
Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor, Kerry Brown, Steve Byers, Hunter Gourley
Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael
Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmeicik, Laura McGee, Anderson _
Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan. Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Debby Williams. Copy Editing: Chris-
tine Jackson

Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

Letters

Estimated Profit

To the Editors:

Good news! Both basketball and
football are making a profit at Davidson
College! At least, so it would seem from
the erroneous figures printed in last
week’s Davidsonian. Unfortunately the
figures reported represent only a small
fraction of the money expended. Given
the highly emotional atmosphere which
surrounds any discussion of athletics at
Davidson, it is especially important that
reporting be done as accurately and fairly
as possible. John Gathing’s article failed
on the first count.

Financial information regarding ath-
letics at Davidson is not easy to obtain. In
spite of the fact that Trustee policy states
that “information concerning the cost of
the program of athletics ... and its
major component parts be disseminated
on an annual basis,” the most recent in-
formation compiled by the comptroller’s
office was for 1980-81.

In that year, the cost of basketball
was $410,163, while football was
$442,398; these costs were partially
offset by Wildcat Club contributions of
$115,650 and game income of
$140,139. Projecting the rate of increase
of the two previous years, basketball
costs would have been approximately
$500,000. (Please note that these figures
are my estimates, based on past years,
and are subject to correction; but I be-
lieve they are substantially correct.)

Clearly basketball and football are
expensive enterprises at Davidson,
amounting to expenditures of some $700
per student.

Are they worth it? About that ques-
tion there is considerable debate. My
own opinion is that they are not, and for
reasons educational, communal and
moral as well as financial. A recent sur-
vey of faculty opinion shows that faculty
generally are unsympathetic with the
present football! program, and to a some-
what lesser degree with the basketball
program. In the past faculty opinion has
counted very little in the determination of
athletic policy and program. The Trus-
tees have regarded the matter as solely
within their province.

Athletics occupies a significant prop-
ortion of the College budget and of stu-
dents’ time. It is vitally important to the
life of the College that our policy and
program be consistent with our character
and objectives as an institution. It is
widely recognized that at the present.
time there is inconsistency, and that a
new look is required. The Trustees could
serve the College well by facilitating that
new look. A good way to do so would be
to set up a special commission on athle-
tics with the task of designing an athletic:
policy consonant with our objectives.
Such a commission should be composed
of Trustees, students, faculty and admin-
istrative officers, and it should consult
fully with all College constituencies.
Thén we might reasonably expect to
develop a program which can elicit sup-
port from the entire community.

David Kaylor
Professor of Religion

Editor's Note — The graph’s purpose
was not to show the entire athletic budget
but to compare amounts spent for indi-
vidual teams. The fact that coaches
salaries were not included was noted at
the bottom of the graph.

My Challenge

To the Editors:

I was extremely pleased to see just
under 20 percent of the campus turn out
for the panel discussion sponsored by
R.A.C.E. (Racial Attitudes Concerning
Everyone) on Tuesday night. Many
views were aired and some misun-
derstandings were cleared up. This was a
great first step. But it was just that, a first
step. Several suggestions were made at
the end of the session which can bring
about further steps and subsequently bet-
ter relations between blacks and whites
on campus.

My challenge, as I stated at the meet-
ing, is for Davidson’s white students to
involve themselves in functions at the
BSC house which are open to the whole
campus. Going to the panel was an im-
portant way to express one’s concern,
but one must admit that it was a relatively
“safe” move. However, placing oneself
in the position of being a minority makes
one very vulnerable. By joining the
blacks at the BSC, I learned a little about
what it is like for black students to come
into a white world every day. Until white
students can experience a similar situa-
tion, they cannot begin to feel and under-
stand the black position at Davidson.

Black students here have no choice
about whether or not to integrate with the
white community. However, concerning
the black community, whites do have a
choice. The question is, how deep is our
commitment and willingness to taking a
second step toward bettering black and
white relations on Davidson's campus?

Ellen Field

Pentagon Budget

To the Editor:

The proposed Pentagon budget for
the upcoming fiscal year-:is three-
hundred billion dollars from this year.
This is the biggest single increase since
World War II, and the Pentagon is the
number one single purchaser of goods
and services in the U.S, There are twice
as many defense employees as farmers,
and defense production accounts for ten
percent of all U.S. manufacturing. Also,
the Pentagon employs more than twenty-
five percent of all U.S. scientists and en-
gineers.

Arms makers and contractors are
helped by defense expenditures, but the
large defense budget of the U.S. only
provokes Soviet response and harms

~ more Americans than it helps. The arms

race‘is a race with no finish line. As vot-
ers let us do what we can to remedy the
situation of outrageous military expendi-
tures by giving careful scrutiny in this
election year to the nuclear policy aspect
of all political platforms. Politicians’
willingness to fight sincerely, for the first
step in arms reduction, a multilateral nu-
clear freeze, is of the utmost importance
today.

Cameron Marshall
