14 Friday, May 4, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Managing Editor
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Ross Holt, Editor”

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor

Allocations

The Activities Tax Council set out this year to make up for a $3,000
deficit it incurred last year. The ATC did so mostly through cutting stu-
dent publications’ budget requests. Clearly, Hobart Park, The Davidso-
nian, and Quips and Cranks received most of the burden of balancing the
ATC budget and of increases granted to other student organizations.

At its meeting Tuesday, SGA Senate approved the ATC’s budget,
despite complaints voiced by representatives from Hobart Park, The
Davidsonian, and Quips and Cranks. Seven of the 21 senators did not
even attend the meeting.

These absences were unexecusable. Of the senators who'did attend,
only three actually participated in the discussion of the pros and cons of
ATC allotment to publications. ©

Rather than postpone its approval of the ATC budget and investigate
the complaints, the SGA Senate instead took the easy way out and ap-
proved the budget. One senator said, “‘this is the longest meeting we have
had all year.”

Another senator observed afterward that more students had attended
this meeting to voice concerns than had attended any Senate meeting dur-
ing his three years in the organization.

Clearly, the ATC’s budget needed reconsideration. The ATC cut
Hobart Park’ s budget in half. This will allow the only forum for student
literary effort on campus to publish but one issue next year.

Although it received a $300 increase, Quips and Cranksdid not even
get an inflationary increase to cover next year’s publishing costs. After
paying its publisher, the year book will haye only $85 to meet expenses
for the rest of the year. The ATC did, however, manage to dig up surplus
funds somewhere which it offered to shift to the yearbook, but only after
it became aware of the Publication Board’ S opposition to the proposed
budget. ;

The Davidsonian was cut $1,300 from the budget it received last
year. Though we can “live” with the dectease, ‘we’ quéstion the ATC’s
action on several points. The Davidsonian raised 33 percent of its total
budget last year — more than any other student organization — and the
ATC rewarded us with a budget cut. Yet the ATC told Quips and Cranks
to raise money,on their own. Does this mean that if the yearbook does
raise funds successfully, that next year’s ATC will punish them for doing
so by cutting their budget? The Davidsonian did not even request an in-
crease this year.

The ATC has played “editor” throughout the proceedings. In essence
the ATC has told the student body: “Davidson, you only need a limited
outlet for creative writing, because we don’t think there’s enough inter-
est in Hobart Park. You don’t need a quality yearbook, and you can do
without an improved weekly newspaper.”

The ATC has reasons for its decisions; no organization received what
it requested. Since publications make up a majority of the ATC’s budget,
publications are the easiest place to make cuts. Is it fair, however, to cut
from publications $2650 (their totalled budgets last year) and boost all
other organizations a total of $2650? Obviously the money taken from
publications went to increases for other organizations. If the ATC budget
must be cut overall, then all organizations must share the burden equally.

And if the SGA Senate desires to possess the credibility it must have
to even begin to represent student opinion, then it ought to listen to its
constituents. Denying approval to the ATC proposal would not have
been the end of the world. It would have allowed — or forced — the ATC
to deal with questions both it and the SGA are apparently afraid to face.

LETTERS

Fu Society

To the Editors:

In a letter to The Davidsonian several
weeks ago, Mike Wilkinson indicated
the need at Davidson College for a stu-
dent forum which would promote discus-
sion of important current issues. In re-
sponse to this call, the Eumenean Liter-
ary Society wishes to make known its
existence as such an organization.

Though the Eumenean Society no
longer abides by the formal rules of de-
bate, it still remains a group of individu-
als devoted to discussion of current is-
sues; recent topics have included libera-
tion theology, drugs, and school prayer.
Membership is open to all Davidson stu-
dents; discussions are informal and are
held on Sunday nights at 10. All faculty
and students are welcome to attend these
meetings.

Next Sunday, May 6, we will be dis-
cussing possible solutions to the arms
race. We hope that students and faculty
alike will take advantage of this forum as
an opportunity to discuss important is-
sues.

The Eu Society

Oversight

To the Editors:

We are concerned that The Davidso-
nian mishandled its reporting last week
of president-elect Dr. Kuykendall’s
speech. The Davidsonian’s article failed
to report the reason for Dr. Kuykendall’s
visit. that evening. It simply stated that
Dr. Kuykendall was on campus for the
weekend. In fact, he spoke at the request
of the Philanthropic Literary Society as
an alumnus of the Society. Earlier in the

evening Dr. Kuykendall had been the
guest of honor at the Society’s Spring
Banquet. The Society had opened the
banquet to student leaders in an effort to
facilitate an easy transition next year for
the president and those students.
Throughout the year the Society
sponsored student, faculty, and guest
speakers. The climax of the year came a
week ago Thursday with Dr. Kuyken-
dall’s speech.
We hope the Davidsonian will report
2vents more completely in the future.
The Philanthropic Literary Society
John Laughlin
Nancy Rosselot
Beth Maczka
Paulette Kurani

Hill's Response

To the Editors:

Due to space constraints, I will only
be able to address points raised by An-
drew Yorand Anne Elliott in two areas
— affirmative action and white debt to
blacks.

In arguing that affirmative action is
not racism, Miss Elliott defines racism as
“inequity, blatant discrimination ‘that
hurts a group of people as a race and hin-
ders them from progress in employment,
housing, education” (emphasis hers).
She has based her definition on the effect
of a certain type of racism, and in doing
so has lost what is the sine qua non of ra-
cism: the doctrine that an individual’s
race is a valid criterion to be used in
evaluating and deciding how to deal with
the person.

Any individual or any government
bureaucrat who uses reace as a criterion
of evaluation, or allows race to influence

how he chooses to deal with an indi-
