10 Friday, April 20, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, David Resnik, Associate Editors
Dan Voorhis, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Ross Holt, Editor

Fellowship

If 1 told you what it takes to reach the highest high,/ You'd laugh and say

“nothing is that simple” / But you've been told many times before/ Mes-

siahs pointed to the door! No one had the guts to leave the temple . . .
—Pete Townshend, “I’m Free”

We commend the leaders of Davidson Christian Fellowship for hav-
ing the courage to “kill” their organization. DCF had alienated many
Christians on campus, and had acquired the reputation of being a “God-
squad.”

The appelation did not necessarily apply to individual DCF mem-
bers, or even to the small groups. The perception of each member as an
intolérant, proselytizing super-Christian is certainly wrong.

The group as a whole, however, became a quasi-exclusive body
which attracted a severely limited range of Christians. It became, as it
were, just another denomination.

DCF’s mistake was seeing itself as the representative of Christianity
on campus. Some members reinforced this view, and a process of decay
began — not only from within but from the outside, as the group’s public
credibility faded.

We encourage organization of a new campus Christian group. How-
ever, those behind it should take steps to ensure that it does not deterior-
ate into the ““God-squad” that DCF became. It should not cater to one
type or style of Christianity; it should not assume that it has all the an-
swers. It must open its arms to any brand of Christianity — even to non-
Christians who might desire Christian fellowship. It must not, whatever
it does, attempt to enforce conformity.

We understand the need for a new Christian fellowship; however, we
see a great potential for a reversion to the same old DCF brand of Christ-
ianity. We do not recommend hasty reorganization. The quick resurrec-
tion of a fellowship (extending the questionable metaphor of the pre-Eas-
ter demise of DCF) would only strain any credibility DCF still has.

Rather, a cooling-off period, preferably an extended one, would be
best. The small groups should, for a while , steer their own course instead
of attempting to band together again. Any new fellowship should be the
result of a calm, thoughtful building process, not a knee-jerk reaction to
the rather melodramatic finale of DCF. If there exists a true need, a
healthy organization will come about — over time.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson,
NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class
postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of
Davidson College.

. News Staff: David Van Pelt, Boyd Blackburn, Assistant News Editors, Roxanna Guilford, Rand
Hartsell, Bob Loper. Frances Palmer, Tom Schilling, Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson
Arts and Entertainment Staff: Miguel Abreu, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt
Morris
Sports Staff: Andy Barron. Assistant Sports Editor, Kerry. Brown, Hunter Gourley, Patricia Hahn,
Jean Webb
Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael
Dent, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmeicik, Laura McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell,
Bruce.von Stein ;

» Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd. Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Kevin Horan. Compositors: Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano,.Rob Pool, Jorgia Rice,
Frank Roberts, Debby Williams. Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

~ Circulation: David MeGurry. Manager 5

Se martyrdom ? Grosh fellas... Don} know if thatone Counts!

LETTERS

BSC

To the Editors:

Regarding the article by the Black
Student Coalition in last week’s David-
sonian:

In the first sentence of their article the
BSC states that “we have decided to
cease our disgruntled murmurings and

ct.” Yet, in the next paragraph they as-

sert: “It is not up to us to figure out for
you how to do what we ask; we can only
say that we are tired of waiting.” And
shortly thereafter: “Now, Davidson it’s
up to you. And we will not wait any
longer for the things that should have
been long ago.”

We feel that the BSC is not ready to
act; on the contrary, they are merely
ready to demand. The college has al-
ready given the BSC not only a house and
renovations, but also $5,300 this year
from the college’s Activities Tax Coun-
cil (that’s more than the SGA gets!).

The tone of the BSC’s letter is re-
miniscent of a spoiled child who has al-
ready received much and _ yet cries for
more: BSC, we ask you: Will you pre-
sent us with concrete reasons for your de-
mands and viable means for their im-
plementation, and show Davidson that
you have the commitment to work for
them, or will you continue in this fash-
ion?

.

Paul Weiss
David Gaston

To the Editors:
Without much effort, I have found

yet another Davidson phenomenon that
rarely receives the praise it deserves:

Outdoor Adventures. These occasional
rafting, hiking, and camping treks which
are sponsored by the Outing Club and
Housing Office offer a chance to leave
the classroom behind and to learn some
valuable, non-academic lessons. Besides
that, you can have a hell of a lot of fun.
During spring break, I cruised down
to Cumberland Island with a proup of 15
people on a trip organized through the
Housing Office. Not only did we get to
explore a wildly gorgeous island, chase
simple-minded armadillos, play frisbee
on the beach, climb the spooky live-
oaks, consume large quantities of
GORP, and stalk a six-and-a-half-foot
alligator; we also got a chance to learn
about ourselves, about a_ different
ecosystem, about other people, about
thos: infamous catholes, and about the
func..oning of a group. Last week’s Out-
ing Club raft trip had similar success for
nearly 20 students. In talking to some
post-rafters, I was told the trip was ‘“‘cos-
mic,” as well as “a great way to get back
in touch with Nature.” Again, partici-
pants stressed the value of getting away

from Davidson and getting to enjoy a

non-academic setting.

I applaude both the skilled leaders of
these memorable outings and the adven-
turous students who participate. A col-
lege education, I believe, is hardly com-
plete without such experiences.

Chris Gunn

Lett Poli

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from our readers. We require that let-
ters be signed and include the author’ s!
address and phone number. All letters
must be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tues-
_day. We réserve the right to edit letters
for length and clarity. The Davidso-
nian does. not in any way endorse the
opinions. expressed in the letters it’

