14 Friday, March 16, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Managing Editor

Ross Holt, Editor

Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, David Resnik, Associate Editors

Dan Voorthis, News Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor

Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Beginnings I

John Kuykendall’s unanimous selection as Davidson’s next presi-
dent marks the beginning of a period of consolidation. President
emeritus Sam Spencer initiated sweeping changes during his 14 years as
president — coeducation, considerable expansion of the College’s En-
dowment, Self-selection in place of the fraternity bid system, and com-
puter and international studies programs, to name several. We trust-that
Kuykendall will strengthen these areas of expansion and act on the Col-
lege’s unfinished and unbegun business. The problems with Davidson’s
admissions, athletics, and social system will demand his immediate at-
tention.

Apparently, Kuykendall’s character and style of leadership indicate
that he will lend an open ear and be accessible to all groups on campus
and reach thoughtful decisions after soliciting a variety of opinions:

. That he lacks experience in fundraising has concerned some. Fun-
draising often seemed to be the principle job for President Spencer. The
Search Committee felt, and rightly so, that a president dedicated to and
enthusiastic about the ideals of Davidson would appeal to potential fi-
nancial supporters of the College.

Kuykendall will need support from students, faculty, and the Trus-
tees so that he may be, as he has said, “the key to the enabling of other
people to do what they ought to be doing in an institution like Davidson.”

Beginnings II

Like Davidson’s new president, we too have a new job — editors of
The Davidsonian. We will try to maintain our commitment to bring
coverage of issues each week that affect our readers, and offer incisive
perspectives on the changes and events in the community.

Ann Meador and David Resnik, our predecessors, developed a
strong newspaper during their year in office by building the paper’s cre-
dibility, expanding its coverage, and ensuring its appeal to the College
community. We recognize our responsibility to continue and enhance
this tradition.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonien, Box 218, Davidson,
NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class
postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright heid by the Trustees of .
Davidson College.

t

News Staff: David van Pelt, Boyd BlackburnAssistant News Editors, Roxanna Guilford, Rand
Hansell, Bob Loper, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal, Tom Schilling, Elizabeth White, Allison
Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Migue! Abreu, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt
Morris a
Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Kerry Brown, Hunter GourleyScott Huie

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael
Dent, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmeicik,_ Laura McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell,
Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan. Compositors: Lou Hamilton,’ Anne Lambert, Rob Pool, Debby
Williams. Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

Letters

Hoddy

To the Editors:

I have just finished reading “The Dean’s
Outbasket,” a publication which I found
interesting and informative. However, it
contains a factual error which, in the
spirit of the Honor Code, I wish to cor-
rect. I refer to Dean Terry's definition of
the word “hoddy.”

According to Terry, “hoddy” indi-
cates someone who “care[s] about [his]
house and wish{es] to be a gung-ho mem-
ber.” This usage of the word “hoddy,” as
an adjective, is improper. ‘““Hoddy” is a
noun, referring to members of a single
on-campus fraternity. It is a contraction
of the phrase “hoddy toddy God Aw-
mighty.” This, I believe, is supposedly
indicative of the attitude of the brothers
of said fraternity. It proceeds from an
older, archaic word, ‘“hoity-toity,”
which means either “pompous”
(“marked by an air of importance”) or “to
play the fool” (“thoughtless giddy be-
havior”).

Thank you for this opportunity to set
the record straight.

Name withheld

Update

To the Editors:

In the last two 1978 Class Notes col-
umns [in The Davidson Update], 1 was
struck by the absences of Ted (the Eel)
Ellett’s usual creativity and linguistic
clevemess. He’s working too hard, I
thought. I was saddened by the thought
that, for whatever reason, the Update
was losing this valued asset.

In Davidson on business recently, I
met Ted for dinner and tried to broach the
subject delicately. Barely was the
thought transformed into words when he
let loose with the heretofore inside scoop
as to how a major (seemingly editor-in-
duced) format change was in the mill.

As I understand it, each issue will
contain some but not all the available in-
formation on a class and what’s printed
will be presented in nondescript “for-

mula” language. This is an unfortunate ©

decision, which should be rescinded at
once. As a writer and editor myself, with
more than a mere tad of experience with
newsletters, I have found readers re-
spond more favorably to creative expres-
sion than bare-bone data presentation
when it comes to reading about them-
selves and their peers.

It is un-Davidsonian to stifle the crea-
tive instincts of anyone, let alone volun-
teer class secretaries. This is especially
true. where, as here, the creativity of a
Ted Ellet tends to evoke fond memories
of the fellowship and camaraderie of a
class. In these parts I’ve heard that “if a
hound hunts, pet it good.” The previous

format was a good-huntin’ hound. In-
stead of pettin’ it good; you seem to be
trying to change it to a fake pedigree.
You'd best keep your fingers away from
the teeth of the new critter ’cause it’s
likely to bite your finger.

I'd not blame a single class secretary
if they all resigned rather than comply.
Paid staff employees might as well be
writing the material from bits and pieces
of information from which the volunteers
otherwise work.

Victor A. Fleming ’78

Participate!

To the Editors:

Laura, Tim, Scott, Elise, Alva, Joe,
Elizabeth, Pam, Clay, Paulette, Katie,
Lauren, Ed, John, Bob, Elizabeth,
Rand, Wilson, Ross, Ted, Thomas. Who
are these people? A very good question.
These are the new members of the Union
Board. Each one of them is on the look-
out and they’re looking for you.

We’ ve just finished a spring work- -
shop and have decided, or rather disco-
vered, a very important bit of informa-
tion. In the past the Union has only spent
‘time recruiting freshmen during orienta-
tion. Everyone gets swamped with Join
Thisitis ( a rare communicable disease
that keeps one from signing any piece of
paper for fear of becoming an indentured
committee servant!). No, it isn’t time for
a campus orientation. Rather I wonder if
everyone knows what is going on in the
Union? What the Union is going on?
Who is going on in the Union? And why
what is going on in the Union is going
on? — .

We're starting a new term and we're
an inexperienced board. The one remedy
for our concern over campus participa-
tion is your involvement. The Union
emits fun and good times because people
always busily buzz in the Union. We in-
vite your participation. Speak to some-
one on the Board. The board chairperson
can direct you to the one committee that
fits your interests. Look at the Union and
enjoy it from the inside as well as the out-
side. There are no bored board members,
yet.

Thomas Evans,
Union President

Itty-Bitty | |
Bathroom

To the Editors:
I’ve been thinking about the itty-bitty
. bathroom by the President’s office. It’s
behind that little opaque window by the
southeast entrance to Chambers.

Like, wouldn’t it be smelly, being so
small and all? I guess I’m just an alum-
nus.

Mark Barrett ’82
