Friday, October 19, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

The Great Escape Presents Appealing Heroes

By CRAIG DETWEILER

Can a film be both fine and fun? The
Great Escape answers that cinematic
question. With a mucho macho cast, pic-
turesque scenery, and rousing plot, The
Great Escape offers an extremely satis-
fying Saturday night at the movies.

Set in World War II Germany, John
Sturges’ film portrays the planning and
execution of — that’s right — you
guessed it, a great escape. A divergent
assortment of Allied prisoners combine
intellect and agility to pull off a massive
breakout. Subtleties of character and plot
are not the issue in an action-adventure
war movie. Kinetic energy and audience
response serve as the prime objectives of
The Great Escape.

The film meets its modest goals, as
one comes to cheer the allies and boo the
inhuman Nazis. Given the anti-heroes of
modern cinema, like Dirty Harry Calla-
han, it’s uplifting to be able to identify
and fully support the good guys.

Made in 1963, the film represents a
successful genre in post-war cinematic
history — the beefcake boys breakout.
Similar yarns like Stalag 17, The Guns of
Navarone, and The Dirty Dozen feature
loads of handsome, muscular allies battl-
ing bad little Germans.

The Great Escape owes its im-
mediate influence to the virile vigilantes
of The Magnificent Seven, aJohn Sturges
directed western starring Steve
McQueen, Charles Bronson, and James
Coburn. Adapted from the Japanese clas-
sic The Seven Samurai, The Magnificent
Seven satisfied an audience demand for
pure, tough teams of heroes pooling re-
sources to overcome a greater foe.

Perhaps, the patriotic fervor sur-
rounding the Seven films tapped into a la-
tent fear of Communism. Moviegoers

wanted to see just, reformed heroes
working together to vanquish evil foes.
Obviously, if tough guys joining forces
succeeds at the box-office once, it can do
it again (and again).

The Great Escape transcends the
standard action-adventure conventions
because of its wealth of leading men. It
works because the audience has so many
studly, appealng heroes to choose from,
at least one must win the viewers’ al-
legiance. McQueen reigns as the coolest
of the Americans, especially in the

baseball throwing incident. Charles
Bronson's claustrophobic P.O.W.
shows character dimensions rarely re-
vealed in subsequent performances.
James Garner is just plain bad, and
Richard Attenborough (director of Gan-
dhi) adds some suave British charm.
Even Donald Pleasance turns in an
admirable, quirky performance as the
meticulous documents forger. Ultra laid-
back James Cobum creates such a
smooth role, he almost melts off the
screen. As individuals, each actor went

Never Cry Wolf Harmonizes

By MATT MORRIS

-Carrol Ballard’s film Never Cry Wolf
concerms Tyler, a government environ-
mentalist sent to the Artic, and his efforts
to discover exactly who, or what, is kil-
ling all the caribou that inhabit those icy
regions. The government suspects the
canis lopis (Artic Beige Wolf), but the
humble Tyler, as played by yoo-yoo
eyed Charles Martin Smith, thinks diffe-
rently and sides with the wolves.

Like Ballard’s finest film, The Black
Stallion, Wolf focuses on the human-ani-
mal relationship and with a stunningly
pictaresque camera eye and taps into
deeper, metaphysical quests. Tyler is a
dot against the humongous artic sur-
roundings; this overpowering insignifi-
cance, told entirely through visual lan-
guage, make him — and the viewer —
feel like more than just neighbors to the
wolves, caribou and other animal life on
this planet.

In a wonderful montage, Ballard
shows Tyler eating mice to stay alive
while outside his tent the wolves do the

same. Later Tyler meets an ancient na-
tive named Utek who tells him the
wolves have a special form of communi-
cation which only a few humans can un-
derstand. Oddly enough, Tyler can com-
municate to Utek only through a trans-
lator. Yet none of Ballard's notes on the
man-animal relationship are meant to de-
press; instead Never Cry Wolf celebrates
life, primitive and otherwise.

With such a heavy dependence on vi-
sual imagery to carry its weighty themes,
Never Cry Wolf demands performers
who do not chew scenery. Throughout
triumph and tribulation, Charles Martin
Smith, “Toad” of American Graffiti
fame, plays his human fly character, but
never to the point of annoyance. His nar-
ration, hqwever, is often needless, and
ultimately saps the film of much mys-
tery. In the face of Ballard’s imagery,
who needs verbalization?

Operating more as a poem than a nar-
rative, Wolf offers Ballard plenty of op-
portunity to evoke those transcendently
wide-open views of nature that made The

TONIGHT
M.D. Disco
K.A.
9:00-Monday
$2.00 Donation

to Muscular Dystrophy Association
FAST SCOTTY
Beverage Provided
A Lot

on to prove he could carry even the sor-
riest of movies. As an ensemble, the act-
ing allies could probably win the war on
their own. The fine cast makes The Great
Escape a fine film.

Fences, motoreycles, tunnels —— The
Great Escape includes all the ingredients
required for rippling action-adventure.
Bring the wife, bring the kids, bring the
fraternity to cheer on our boys against the
nasty Nazis. The Great Escape manipvu-
lates our emotions, our patriotism, and
our machismo to full, fun effect.

Men, Animals

Black Stallion spellbinding. Here, how-
ever, the terrain is rougher and the film
more intense.

One moment the viewer catapults
into a rusty, loud (the soud effects
throughout are Whiz-Bang wonderful)
airplane barely floating above the moun-
taintops; the next moment we plunge to
the depths of Artie sub-zero waters. The
dangerous forces of terra firma are blown
to ultra-close ups, as are the beauties this
rock has to offer,

Ballard takes an even more ambitious
step, by including “evil entrepreneurs”
who seem to have a habit of strolling into
other animal films and destroying the
ecology with miles of Hardees. Yet even
here, Ballard explores — and stimulates
— by suggesting that man, like the
wolves, lives off the land in anyway he
can, whether it be eating mice or eating a
quarter-pounder with cheese.

This attitude will probably infuriate
some environmentalists, but is the key

that completes Ballard’s man versus ani-
mal drama.
