Friday, September 28, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

Silkwood Traces Nuclear Worker’s Last Days

By MATT MORRIS
Silkwood (1983) Starring Meryl Streep,
Kurt Russell, and Cher. Directed by
Mike Nichols. 8 p.m. tonight in Love Au-
ditorium. $1.50.

In 1974, Karen Silkwood, an em-
ployee of a Kerr-McGhee nuclear plant,
was killed in a car crash. Many believe
that Silkwood was carrying an exposé
against her employer to a meeting with a
Washington Post reporter and was inten-
tionally sideswiped by a frightened nu-
clear-union member. The fact that she
was up to her neck in a woman-who-
knew-too-much intrigue becomes a moot
point in the film Silkwood, showing to-
night in Love Auditorium.

Refusing to play detective (any at-
tempt at political statement remains
obscure) the movie instead retains a stark
approach to the narrative. It’s a film
about the working class — ordinary folk
suddenly lost in extraordinary surround-
ings.

Centering on Karen Silkwood (Mery!
Streep), her boyfriend Drew (Kurt Rus-
sell), and her lesbian roommate Dolly
(Cher), all Kerr-McGhee employees, the
movie follows each of these characters
during the days leading to Silkwood’s
untimely death. As the title character,
Meryl Streep generally convinces,
though she is not entirely successful.
Streep’s “y’alls” are carefully placed and
each cigarette southernly lit, yet in the
early segments she is “thinking” too
much and her Silkwood becomes a cari-
cature instead of a character.

Spontaneity finally bleeds in, and
Streep plays more on instinct; she play-
fully romps through life, snatching fel-

ACCOUNTING
ART

BUSINESS ADMINSTRATION
ECONOMICS

FRENCH PHILOSOPHY

FOREIGN SERVICE

IS THERE A BOTTLENECK IN YOUR LIFE?

THE STIMULATING
ATMOSPHERE OF

Saint Louis University’s
Academic Year in Madrid

Designed for the concerned student who may not be financially affluent, the one who de-
mands seriousness in education.

Enjoy the Theaters, Museums & Cultural Life of the Spanish Capitol
QUALITY INSTRUCTION AT ECONOMY PRICES IN:

THEOLOGY

TEACHING ENGLISH AS A SECOND LANGUAGE

Our Center is located in the Ciudid Universitaria. Staff is recruited from three local universities. Trans-

Atlantic Flights: $225. Accredible courses taught in Spanish, personal direction, educational travel.

Year’s Tuition: $3700. Three hundred students currently enrotled. Maintenance in family or dormitory
runs from $200 to $300 per month according to degree of comfort.

Half of our student body are Spaniards ~ Make friends with your hosts from

the first minute.
Information: Raymond L. Sullivant, S.J.
Calle de Vina, 3
Madrid 3, Spain

Contact Campus Representative, Bill Heard
™ Telephone: 892-6198

a A SE ISOS SSA =

low employees’ lunches like a feisty
Puck. New Yorker Streep even manages
to capture a bit of southern pride — in the
face of shifty bureaucrats, Silkwood as-
serts her position in an honest, forceful
way.

Cher and Kurt Russell, both capable
performers, give strong efforts here, but
their time on screen is much too brief.
Dolly’s feelings toward Karen are fas-
cinating but soon forgotten; similarly,
it’s hard to tell how Drew will react to
Karen simply because we don’t get to
know him very well. Still, both make an
imprint, and Russell in particular has a
knack for making something out of noth-
ing (think of his TV-movie performance
as Elvis Presley).

His love scenes with Silkwood light
up the dreary Texan setting with heart-
felt giggles, tears, and embraces. We get
the idea that Drew and Karen, like all
good lovers, know what the other thinks
and can anticipate the other’s emotions.
If only we could understand Drew and
Dolly as well as Silkwood does, the sup-
porting performances might seem more
complete.

Director Mike Nichols has con-
structed Silkwood as a series of long
standstill camera shots that allow the
characters and settings to lock firmly in
the mind. For the most part Silkwood is a
quiet film; Nichols realizes working-
class emptiness by filming his perfor-
mers saying and doing nothing. This
technique creates a highly atmospheric
effect, yet Nichols is careful not to over-
use his static iconography and includes
evocative symbolism in the frame —
watch how flags are placed.in this film.

TRY

HISTORY
LANGUAGE
LITERATURE
POLITICAL SCIENCE
PSYCHOLOGY

SOCIOLOGY

Ultimately, Silkwood evokes the feel
of a midwestern nuclear town hanging on
the edge of contamination while retain-
ing certain moral principles. We see
town meetings, proud old men, children
scurrying about at MacDonald's, people
loving and having a good time with each
other.

Then, during the controversy and

Karen's subsequent investigation, we
see a sudden inversion of morality —
suspicion, fear, guilt, and finally death.
The movie opens and closes with the
song “Amazing Grace,” and the lyrics,
as sung by Streep, perfectly capture what
the movie is all about — humankind
waiting for sweeter sounds and finer
paradises.

Chaos, Culture Highlight
Rollicking Yom Jones

By CRAIG DETWEILER
Tom Jones (1963) Starring Albert
Finney, Susannah York, Hugh Griffith,
Edith Evans, Joyce Redman, and David
Warner. Directed by Tony Richardson.
Saturday, 8 p.m. Love Auditorium. ***
2.

Having to compress 800 pages of re-
fined English literature in to an entertain-
ing two hours can be a weighty problem.
In a miraculous feat of filmmaking, pro-
ducer-director Tony Richardson, writer
John Osborne, and a spirited ensemble
manage to convey the chaos, culture, and
biting satire that dominate Henry Field-
ing’s Tom Jones. Twentieth century
cinematic invention creates a rollicking
seventeenth century England.

Tom Jones traces the maturation of
the amorous, amiable title character.
Born a foundling, Tom overcomes his la-
mentable situation to win the hearts of
numerous ladies and the scorn of many
well-bred “gentlemen.” Dramatic ten-
sion arises from Tom's secret love for the
cultivated Sophie Western. As_ the
adopted son of Squire Allworthy, he
must compete with the Squire's stuffy
nephew, Master Blifil for inheritance,
respect, and Sophie.

While all social institutions and
mores work against Tom, his genuine-
ness and benevolence compensate for his
weaker background. In a journey from
Hampshire to London, Tom encounters
the ways and wiles of the world, striving
to remain true to his beloved Sophie.
Physical comedy, light satire, word
games, and barbs aimed directly at the
audience make the potentially serious
episodes into rich, funny escapades.

Technical precision and imaginative
performances combine to produce the
desired effect — satire and salute to the

bawdy, affected affairs of the English
aristocracy. Filmed throughout Great
Britain, Tom Jones feels like it is set in
Fielding’s world. Rolling pastures,
country estates, chaotic barnyards, and
depraved cities comprise the believable
backdrop. Jumpy, close-up camera an-
gles communicate the revelry present at
period hunts and banquets.

Brilliant casting provides character
actors who appear almost grotesque. The

stern Square and Thwackum look leaden
and unapproachable. Hugh Griffith
makes an effective Squire Western be-
cause his big nose, unkempt hair, and
bugged-out eyes jibe with the crazed,
lovable character.

As Tom Jones, a surprisingly young
Albert Finney actually appears to be gul-
lible, good-hearted and omery. With
their visual cues defined, the cast of Tom
Jones is left to embody the affectations
and spirit of the 18th century. In numer-
ous eating, drinking, and frolicking
scenes, the ensemble captures the pure,
opulent self-indulgence that Fielding re-
veals in the novel.

With cast, set, and atmosphere
realized effectively, the viewer can con-
centrate upon the complicated story. The
resulting entertainment carries both a
celebratory tone and a serious comment
on predatory life-styles and relation-
ships. Fielding’s absurd, totally incredi-
ble plot twists create great pleasure. Just
when one believes Fielding wouldn't
dare to include another uncanny coinci-
dence, another occurs.

The funniest scenes revolve around
the Inn at Upton. Foreshadowing the
conclusion of the tale, the Inn at Upton
serves as the converging point of most
major characters. The classic eating
scene between Tom and Mrs. Waters
combines tension of hilarious hedonism
and revolting indulgence. Their affected
sexuality makes one laugh and wince at
the same time. While the convoluted plot
may frustrate the viewer, Tom Jones de-
livers in the surprise, efficient ending.
Appearing to belittle and simplify the tre-
mendous series of events which preceded
it, the conclusion actually serves to rees-
tablish order within the confused society.

Approach Tom Jones for true
cinematic delight, with the extravagant
life-styles supplying laughter and joy.
The concise ending hints that the almost
grotesque, abusive scenes beforehand
are not supposed to carry devastating
weight. Just as Fielding wanted to teach
and entertain, the cast and crew of Tom
Jones aim for laughter with a Jight mes-
sage. As one laughs at the horrendous
hypocrisy of the characters, the
similarities between their vice and our
own emerge.

DELIVERY

7 DAYS A WEEK
8:30 — 11:45
892-8686

