10 Friday, March 30, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, David Resnik, Associate Editors
Dan Voorhis, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Randy Stroud, Photography Editor Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Ross Holt, Edisor

Honor

Next Tuesday, Davidson students will elect new members to the
Honor Council — a group which, because it is elected, should represent
the student body. However, it does not.

Honor Council members are not publically accountable for their ac-
tions, nor are they accessible to students.

How, then, can students judge whether or not Honor Council mem-
bers are fulfilling the duties the students have elected them to fulfill? Be-
cause the Honor Council does not make its proceedings public, students
cannot make this judgment.

But even if students knew whether or not Honor Council members
were serving them properly, any opinion of an Honor Council member’s
integrity would have no meaning. Honor Council members do not face
re-election or any other public check.

Clearly the element of student access to Honor Council members is
blatantly missing. The principle of election, however, mandates this ac-
cess and accountability.

Even student access to Honor Council candidates is restricted. Elec-
tion procedures do not allow candidates to campaign actively; they sup-
posedly run solely on their own integrity. But this perception faslely as-
sumes that all students know all candidates equally well.

These elections are supposed to choosevthe candidates with the most .

integrity. Since no one can campaign, how do students know anything
about a candidate’s integrity? Do those elected really have the most in-
tegrity, or are they merely more popular? Are the three candidates cho-
sen from each class any more honorable than those who lose?

Students have access to other candidates and elected officers on cam-
pus. Officers such as SGA president are accountable. In addition stu-
dents may criticize, comment, and participate directly or indirectly in the
organizations for which they elect officers to represent them.

If Honor Council members are to be elected, then they should be held
more accountable to those who elect them. Since they are not presently

publically accountable, then the elections are meaningless, In that case,
why vote?

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson,
NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class
postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of
Davidson College.

News Staff: David van Pelt, Boyd Blackbum, Assistant News Editors; Roxanna Guilford, Rand
Hartsell, Bob Loper, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal, Tom Schilling, Elizabeth White, Allison
Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Miguel Abreu, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt
Morris

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Kerry Brown, Hunter GourleyScott Huie

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor, Brad Brechtelsbauver, Michael
Dent, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmeicik. Laura McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell,
Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt. Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross. Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt ‘

Production Staff: Kevin Horan. Compositors: Lou Hamilton, Anne Lambert, Rob Pool, Debby
Williams. Copy Editing: Christine Jackson

Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

Letters

Display
of
Cowardice ©

To the Editors:

It is clear to us that the recent surrep-
titious distribution of the “Preventing
Nuclear War” pamphlets was nothing
more than a superb display of cowardice
on the part of their conservative-minded
distributers. The flyers. were shoved
quietly under the doors of their victims
by an anonymous person or group of
people late one night last week. It is diffi-
cult not to wonder who this group was
and, more interestingly, why they failed
to identify themselves. The answers to
these questions are given by the literature
itself; these people were embarrassed
and afraid to claim responsibility. We
sympathize and understand the trepida-
tion this group must feel at the thought of
defending the ideology they present.

We have no “continuous dialogue
with the Soviet leaders.” Nuclear prolif-
eration is not “inexpensive,” and the
Soviet Union is not twice as strong as the
United States. Furthermore, the fact that
we have not yet annihilated ourselves
does not prove that detente works. Look
where detente has left us: on the brink of
terminating humanity. But our intention
is not to point out that the flyers contain
perverse logic and laughable assertions.
Our feeling is that progress in solving
any issue can exist only through positive
discussion of ideas between identified,
self-respecting, and open-minded
groups, not through the stealthy skulking
of flyer-pushers in dark hallways.

Will Cardwell
Clay Flinn
Sayres Rudy

Bulletin
Board

To the Editors:

In the past two months the Y Student
Service Corps has attempted to make the
campus more aware of its purpose and of
the various programs which the Y spon-
sors. This has included the Y bulletin
board located by the development offices
in Chambers. We are distressed by the
lack of respect certain students have dis-
played recently towards the bulletin
board. Twice students have vandalized it
by tearing posters off the walls and in
half, most recently Saturday, March 24,
only one day after a new board had been
put up.

These actions are not befitting a stu-
dent body which respects the honor code
and code of responsibility as an integral
part of the educational process. In the fu-
ture we would appreciate the campus’s

respect of our work. Please do not tear
down our bulletin board.

Beth Maczka
Chris Blake
Laeta Kalogridis
Anne Lambert
Laura McGee
Y-Corps officers

3-Quarter Time

To the Editors:

We really enjoyed your annual swim-
suit issue. However something made us
whine. What is the point of “3 Quarter
Time”? Is it supposed to be pure humor,
a satiric look at the world, or a popular
serial followed by millions?

What is the point of a comic strip? It
is to make one laugh or think, preferably
both. “3 Quarter Time” does neither,
dammit. It is not even relevant.

What we are protesting is not the con-
cept of a comic strip in The Davidsonian,
but the fact the “3 Quarter Time” does lit-
tle more than take up space. Please
coerce Mr. Lowrey to spend more than
10 minutes on his egocentrically self-in-
dulgent exercise in doodling. ;

If we do not see improvement in two
weeks, we will have a spazz.

Bryan Feigenbaum
Ted Singdahlsen
Doug Robelen

Negotiation

To the Editors:

In responding to Jeb Benedict’s arti-
cle in last week’s Davidsonian, “No
Rules Apply in World Politics,” I would
like to acknowledge that it has been my
pleasure to advance the debate with him
within the classroom and without over
the last several years. I would just like to
add one comment.

Profit and power; success and secu-
rity, are important, but they are not the
sole objective of U.S. national interests
or national policy. Compassion, oppor-
tunity, equity, and respect for human

_ dignity have a place in the American

tradition as well. When this mixed
American ethos is projected into the in-
ternational field, knowledge and under-
standing of the other party’s point of
view becomes as essential to agreement
and cooperation and management of in-
ternational affairs as is the assertion of
power. One final comment: In the area of
nuclear arms build-up, if negotiation is
not viable as a course of policy, what
does work? More nuclear arms? I
wouldn’t want to see the “proof” to this
last proposition.
Louis L. Ortmayer
Director,
Center for Special Studies
