Friday, May 4, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

Fewer Move Off-Campus , Room Shortage Likely

By BOYD BLACKBURN

The waiting list for on-campus hous-
ing is exceptionally long this year. Ris-
ing sophomore women have been espe-
cially hard hit.

Housing Director Bill Bolding attri-
buted the problem to a low number of
students wanting to move off-campus.
Normally, approximately 200 students
choose to live off-campus. During this
year’s lottery, only 120 students planned
to go off-campus. Consequently, he
said, more people will be forced off due
to the on-campus housing shortage.

Those people high on the waiting list
will probably get fourth Little or first
Belk rooms which were originally saved
for next year’s freshmen.

Even after these rooms are filled,
there will still be about 70 students who
want to live on-campus but will not yet
have rooms. Bolding stressed the word
“yet.” Many students will secure rooms
before the fall, he said. Some people who
obtained rooms in the lottery will decide
during the summer not to return to
Davidson, and the wait-listed students
will get their rooms.

Bolding said he expected that most of
those on the men’s waiting list will re-
ceive rooms. However, he was more
concerned with the women’s waiting list.

Bolding, along with Dean of Stu-
dents Will Terry, is looking for tempo-
rary as well as permanent solutions to the
problem. “Every year we go through this

hassle because we do not have adequate
housing for our students, particularly
given our commitment to being a resi-
dential College,” Terry said. “Part of our
problem stems from the past administra-
tion’s unwillingness to take this problem
seriously.” Bolding said consideration

had been given to converting ETC and
ATO to housing.

Two years ago the College consid-
ered a proposal to construct a new resi-
dence hall directly behind Knox and
Irwin dorms. The project had strong sup-
port from the administration, but was

vetoed by then-President Samuel R.
Spencer for fear of decreasing enroll-
ment. The money was instead used to air-
condition Belk.

The idea of building a new dorm is
currently in limbo as the College changes
presidents.

College To Conduct Self-Study

Laughlin To Chair Student Committee

By TOM SCHILLING

Every 10 years Davidson college un-
dergoes a self evaluation, conducted
through the Southern Association of Col-
leges and Schools. A committee met this
week to begin gathering information for
the upcoming two-ear study.

According to Director of Institutional
Research Richardson Love,“the study is
required for re-accreditation every ten
years”. He said it allows the college to re-
evaluate its own curriculum and organi-
zation. Furthermore, Love added, it
serves as an invaluable aid to an incom-
ing president. _

Although the faculty primarily runs
the process, a student committee,
chaired by SGA _ president John
Laughlin, will help gather information.
After the information is accumulated, a

written report will be submitted to a
Southern Association committee com-
posed of faculty members from other in-
stitutions.

The committee will then conduct in-
terviews and observe the school. Finally,
using the written report as a guideline, it
will write a critical evaluation.

Love felt that though the study helps
the college look at itself, the standards
and the results of the study mean little at a
place like Davidson. “The Southern As-
sociation judges an institution against its
own goals and not to some absolute stan-
dard,” said Love. It merely looks for
minimum adequacies. This is not very
challenging for Davidson. We can do
very little and pass.”

Through the study the school can
document the previous decade. Many

changes have taken place during that
time, for example, “Women at David-
son, extensive remodelling, and a new
president to name a few,” Love said.

Laughlin noted that the student com-
mittee of a dozen or so members will
gather opinion on issues such as “Patter-
son Court and self-selection, varsity ath-
letics, and off-campus fraternities.” “We
do not get to write a report ourselves but
feel that students still play an important
role in the overall committee,” said
Laughlin. Elizabeth Brooks co-chairs the
student committee.

Most importantly, the study will aid
President-elect John Kuykendall in con-
ducting his first years in office. Accord-
ing to Love, President emeritus Samuel
Spencer created a self study of is own
when he arrived between ten year cycles.

Alumni Weekend Brings Black Graduates Reunion

By ALLISON WILLS

Alumni who participated in David-
son’s first Black Alumni Reunion dis-
cussed their concerns with president-
elect John Kuykendall at a meeting last
Saturday afternoon. The 24 alumni rep-
resenting graduating. classes from 1970
to 1982 travelled from seven states to at-
tend the reunion. .

Besides the general program planned
for alumni weekend, many events were
scheduled by the Black Alumni Reunion
Committee. Friday night the committee
sponsored a panel discussion on capital
punishment, and held a reception the fol-
lowing morning at Dean of Admissions
John Griffith’s house. Saturday after-
noon Kuykendall met with the black
alumni and students. The activities con-
cluded that evening with an informal din-
ner at the Black Student Coalition house.

Calvin Murphy ’70, chairman of the
reunion committee, said the reunion
“was not designed to be separatist or ad-
dress any particular interest or concern of
black students. Our. meeting with Dr.
Kuykendall was not originally planned,
but we wanted to meet with him, and the
discussion gave us the opportunity to
speak about many issues. Project ’87 just
came up.” Kuykendall, accompanied by
Dean of Students Will Terry, left after
speaking briefly to.these issues, but the
discussion continued another hour. Mur-

Calvin Murphy discusses capital puinishment with other alumni

phy said the students’ main concern is the
low number of blacks at Davidson.
Senior Stone Bynum said that the
alumni he spoke with saw few improve-
ments in Davidson with regard to racial
issues. “The main thing they said was
that it’s the samé“as.when they were
here,” he said ““They-all read the letters

in The Davidsonian — especially Anne
Elliott’s — and they remember writing
the same kind of letters.”

“The only improvement they see is
the [BSC] house and the amount of
money we’re getting,” he said.

Murphy agreed. “There are no radi-
cal changes, and I’m not surprised.

Communications

- Davidson is a conservative place and you

know that when you come here. There
are certain physical changes, but the gen-
eral climate for blacks and minorities
here is the same.”

But Murphy stressed that the purpose
of the reunion was to “renew the pre-
sence and interest of black alumni at
Davidson and to represent Davidson gen-
erally. It was not generated by racial or
ethnic concerns,” he said.

“I didn’t get the impression that the
black students are angry. They question
whether Davidson has made a concerted
effort to seeing that certain support was
in place for black students in the same
measure as other students,” Murphy
said. “I also never got the impression that
they were speaking just to benefit blacks,
but to make the whole experience better
for all students,” he added.

The panel on capital punishment Fri-
day night featured Judge Sam J. Irwin III
°48, Jay Keaton Fonvielle °69, Phil
Howerton °58, and Murphy, with Ron
Gibson *74 acting as mediator. “All of us
have had recent experience with capital
cases, and with the recent execution in
North Carolina, there was a great deal of
interest,” Murphy said. “Judge Irwin has
prosecuted, defended, tried and now he
reviews capital cases. Phil Howerton has
prosecuted in six cases, and I’ve prese-

cuted and defended capital cases so we

had a lot of recent examples.”
