Friday, April 20, 1984/The Davidsonian 9

OPINIONS

America’s Departure From Its Christian Roots

Bill Bugg
To defend oneself, one must also be ready to die. There is little
readiness in a society raised in the cult of material well-
being . . . The next war (which does not have to be an atomic

one; I do not believe it will be) may well bury Wester civiliza-
tion forever.

—Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn

Towering over the audience like a prophet in the wil-
derness, and indeed resembling a philosopher or a sage
in stature, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn cried out to a “hard-
hearted, stiff-necked brood at vipers” in his 1978 Har-
vard Commencement address that Americans have little
left for which to die.

Harvard was shocked. And after the speech, the un-
prepared press grew angry and attempted to present his
head on a platter of humiliation. “Our country is more
prosperous than ever before, and he, a Russian, has the
gall to tell us that we are falling,” they said. But Sol-
zhenitsyn was correct. America is in the process of dying
because we, her people, refuse to stand up for the self-
evident truths of the Declaration of Independence, for
our unalienable right to freedom, and for the irrevocable
truth “that God Governs in the affairs of men.”” Ameri-
cans have little left for which to die.

One Nation Under God

When the United States of America was established,
13 independently governed states, holding different con-
stitutions and containing different religious denomina-
tions, appealed “to the Supreme Judge of the world” for
the authority to declare independence. Nine of 13 states
had state religions, and every state rested under the con-
viction that Christianity is true and that God is soveign
over governments — even the religiously tolerant Rhode
Island, which proclaimed in its charter that its people
must be preserved in “libertye, in the true Christian
ffaith and worshipp of God.”

Aithough the Constitution permitted state religions,
most states were tolerant of other Christian denomina-
tions by 1800, yet all presupposed Christianity — which
was more than a civil religion — to be true. Our found-
ing fathers believed not only in Christian ideals but also
in the Christian God. Benjamin Franklin stated to the
Constitutional Convention that the longer he lived, the
more convinced he was “that God governs in the affairs
of men.” John Witherspoon, the only pastor to sign the
Declaration of Independence, held that Christianity and
government must be bonded, insofar as God is sovereign
over governments.

Presidents and Congress’ established days of
Thanksgiving, fasting, and prayer. A chaplain system
organized federal government non-denominational
Christian activities. The first truth of the Declaration of
Independence and of the nation as a whole “lies beyond
politics,” said John Courtney Murray in his essay, “E
Pluribus Unum.” “[I]t imparts to politics a fundamental
human meaning: the sovereignty of God over nations as
well as over individual men.”

Although a smail strand of rationalism and deism
stemming from the Enlightenment influenced the philos-
ophies of a few of the founding fathers (notably, Madi-
son and Jefferson), this strand was not so prevalent as
many historians have stated. Harvard historian Perry
Miller, an atheist, noted in Nature's Nation: “Actually,
European deism was an exotie plant ia America, which
never struck roots in the soil. ‘Rationalism’ was never so

widespread as liberal historians; or those fascinated by
‘Jefferson, have imagined. The basic fact is that the Rev-

olution had been preached t to the masses as a reli gious re-

vival, and’ had ‘the - astounding fortune to succeed.” ae

a od

America in the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries
was a Christian nation.
The First Amendment

That the First Amendment implied separation of
church and state is a myth. The Amendment simply
sanctioned that the federal government could not “im-
pose a national religion” and that each state “was free to
define the meaning of religious establishment under its
own state constitution and laws,” said James McClellan,
a First Amendment scholar. As Ronald Reagan pointed

ut, “The First Amendment was not written to protect
the people and their laws from religious values; it was
written to protect those values from government
tyranny.”

Even Madison and Jefferson supported religious
groups with federal money. Jefferson stated that religi-
ous authority must “rest with the states” in a letter to a
Presbyterian clergyman. Thus when he coined the
phrase “wall of separation between church and State” in
a letter to the Danbury Baptist Association, he did not
mean that he advocated total alienation of religion from
government but rather that he did not think the Anglican
church should be the state religion in Virginia.

Supreme Court

In 1947, the Supreme Court upheld a lower court de-

cision in New Jersey allowing the continuance of public

funding of children’s bus transportation to a parochial-

America has departed from her
Christian roots... If the trend
is halted, our nation will once

again shine forth

school (Everson v. Board of Education). Everson chal-
lenged the statute on the ground that it was a “law re-
specting an establishment of religion” and “that the
Fourteenth Amendment made the First Amendment's
establishment clause applicable to States.”

Justice Hugo L. Black included in the Supreme
Court’s opinion a significant statement which would dic-
tate the future of the church-state battle. He wrote that
the First Amendment means the government — federal
or state — cannot “participate in the affairs of any religi-
ous organizations or groups and vice versa.” He used
Jefferson’s “wall of separation between church and
state” and the Fourteenth Amendment (which was in-
tended only to complement the Civil Rights Act of 1866
— not to apply to the Bill of Rights — as evidenced by
the Blaire Amendment) out of context.

The number of church-state cases increased in
number and controversy. In 1962, the Supreme Court
banished by a vote of 6-1 the Regent’s prayer of New
York (Engel v. Vitate), stating in effect that no prayer
can be composed by the government.

In two cases in 1963 (Abington v. Schempp and
Murray v. Curlett), the Supreme Court determined that
Bible reading and recitation of the Lord’s prayer were
unconstitutional. From 1947 to 1977 the Court banned
most forms of government funding to religiously
affliated -private schools, making a major exception to
colleges and universities.

Implications
L. Brent Bozell wrote about the Supreme Court in

Y e

his essay “The Unwritten Constitution” that “from its old
job of being an expounder of the Constitution, it has be-
come the expounder.” In interpreti g the Constitution
according to the its whims rather than according to the
intentions of the founding fathers, in essence the court
unconstitutionally revised the Constitution to read “sep-
aration of church and state” in place of “Congress shall
make no law respecting the establishment of reli-
gion...”

The Court has persecuted rather than protected citi-
zens who hold the view that this country is (or was) “one
nation under God.” Worse, it has ignored the Constitu-
tion and the intentions of our forefathers; and worst of
all, it has ignored God. In 1962 The Pilot, the oldest
Catholic newspaper in the country, called the Court’s
ruling in the Regent's prayer case “a decision that spits in
the face of our history.”

The shift away from the Constitution is more than a
threat to American freedom. It has already undermined
the basic freedoms of this nation. The freedom of speech
has been jeopardized in some public schools to the extent
that the name of God is not permitted to be uttered except
in profanity. Religious groups are not allowed to hold
voluntary Bible study meetings in public schools across
the nation. The First Amendment implied freedom of
religion, not freedom from religion; freedom of speech,
not freedom from speech.

The shift has affected society dramatically. Fre-
derick Moore Vinson, Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court three decades ago, said, “Nothing is more certain
in modern society than the principle that there are no ab-
solutes.” But the president of Johns Hopkins University.
Steven Muller, said, “The biggest failure in higher edu-
cation today is that we fall short in exposing students to
values.”

This is an understatement. We do not try to expose
students to values. We say that there are not absolutes.
that everything is relative. We ignore the concems of our
forefathers in establishing a nation under God. We fall
short because Christianity has very little to do with our
government any more, because religion has been re-
moved from almost all areas of public institutions. Josef
Jaffa said, “Man is not free to disregard the heirarchy of
souls in nature.” Christ is supreme over man.

Conclusion

It has been said that it only takes a generation to pro-
duce a tide of barbarians which would infiltrate the entire
country. Countries do not end in nuclear war; they are
destroyed when tides of materialism remove the basic
values on which they stand. Countres do not die by al-
lowing their children to say state-sponsored prayers.

_ they are cut off when they fail to look to God. Almost-a

full generation of barbarians has been produced in our
country —- barbarians in the sense of a tide of relativism.
skepticism, and materialism alien to the Christian roots
of our forefathers — and we fail to that we are the barba-
rians.

Solzhenitsyn was right, but we failtohearhim. As
Christ told the church of Ephesus,

You have forsaken your first love. Remember the height from
which you have fallen! Repent and do the things -you did at
first. If you do not repent, I will come eto you and remove your
lampstand from its place.

America has departed from her Christian roots. as the
tide of materialism and the prayer decisions of the Su-
preme Court illustrate. If unchecked, this trend, by dis-
establishing religion from all aspects of the government.
will lead to a further deterioration of values, and termi-
nate in the fall of Western Civilization. If the trend is
halted, our nation will once again shine forth. aa

Bugg is a freshman from Atlanta, GA.

2
