Friday, April 20, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

SPORTS,

- Cats Outlast Appalachian And I.-C. Smith
_ Lower Positions Carry Men’s Tennis

By KERRY BROWN

Nothing went wrong for the David-
son College men’s tennis team this week.
The Wildcats outwitted, overpowered,
and simply outplayed their opponents to
raise their won-loss record to 14-8 for
the season. Davidson defeated Johnson
C. Smith University, 9-0, and the Cats
kept Appalachian State at bay in a thriller
which saw Davidson win the match 6-3.

Davidson met JCSU Tuesday after-
noon, and when the match ended and the

dust settled, JCSU’s team was in a state
of confusion. After JCSU head coach
Bill Lyde finished scolding his players
for numerous mental mistakes, and dis-
pensing tennis tips (which included
phrases such as “stop pushing the ball,”
“play the net more,” and “wake-up —
communicate,” after all of these do’s and
don’ts), Davidson had completed an im-
presive sweep over the Golden Bulls.

‘ Not only did Davidson win, but the
closest match was a three set doubles

Furman Sweep Ends
Davidson’s Playoff Hopes

By ANDY BARRON

The hopes of the Davidson baseball
team to qualify for the conference
playoffs ended when Furman swept the
Cats last weekend.

The Wildcats jumped out to an early
2-0 lead in game one. However, a two-
out, bases-loaded double by Furman won
the game for the Paladins, 3-2. Sopho-
more Scott Weaver, who pitched another
fine game, took the loss.

Saturday’s first game had a lot of
scoring and a one hour rain delay. David-
son was led with a four-for-four perfor-
mance by freshman David Turgeon. A
clutch single by sophomore Chip Knox
tied the game at’ seven and. sent it into
extra innings. However, freshman Steve
Condon was unable to hold the lead and
the Cats lost 8-7.

“Steve made a mistake typical of an
inexperienced pitcher,” Coach George
Greer said. “He got behind one batter and
was afraid to get behind any more. He

threw pitches right down the middle and
they got some hits. That’s just the way it
goes.”

The third game of the series was an
exercise in frustration. The rain delay
caused a late start in the second game,
and as soon as four-and-a-half innings
(the minimum for an official game) of the
third had been played, the game was
called. Furman was ahead at this point
and received the 7-1 victory.

“The last game should never have
been started,” Greer said. “The umpire
said he felt the game could be played be-
fore it got too dark. However, anyone
who knows anything about baseball
should know an hour-and-a-half isn’t
enough time to play a baseball game.”

The series put a damper on what had
been a productive season. Davidson still
has quite a few games remaining, but
without the incentive to make the
playoffs, the Cats are merely ‘playin’ for
pride.”

Schenk Leads Team In
Charleston Match

By TYLER LONG

Last Friday and Saturday the David-
son golf team competed in the annual 36-
hole Citadel Golf Invitational at Charles-
ton Harbor, SC, on the treacherous Pat-
riots’ Point Golf Links.

After a short rain delay, which barely
gave the players enough time to return to
the shelter in the clubhouse, Davidson,
sparked by sophomore Bob Carr’s 78,
finished ninth out of eleven teams
through 18 holes.

Senior Gary Schenk (85), freshmen
Bobby Downie (85), and Tom Davis (89)
also led the team. Davidson’s scores im-
proved dramatically on the second leg of
the tourney, probably due {to the experi-
ence gained after their introduction to the -

course on Friday.

Team captain Schenk, who scorched
the course in 76 strokes, led the pack on
Saturday. Close behind was freshman
Tyler Long with a 78. Sophomore Bob
Carr finished further back at 84 with
Davis and Downie deadlocked with a
pair of 86’s.

Saturday’s improvement moved
Davidson ahead of two more teams and
even with another, placing them in a tie
for 6th place overall. Coach Tom
Cartmill looks forward to. the Southern
Conference Tournament on April 23-25
at Raintree Country Club in Charlotte,
NC, with a well-founded confidence in
his squad, which has now produced
lower team scores than any previous
team at Davidson. _.

duel which saw freshman Trip Caldwell
and sophomore Eric Schimdhauser out-
last Errol Thomas and Gary Robinson for
a 5-7, 64, 6-3 victory. Davidson seem-
ingly did everything right in the match
while JCSU could never break away
from their lackadasical play.

JCSU just couldn’t put anything to-
gether against a deep Wildcat squad, and
when the Golden Bulls could not find the
winning touch, “they blew it in good
fashion,” as Lyde muttered during the
final sets of his team’s ordeal.

Freshman Hayes Dallas continued
his dominance at the number one singles
spot for the Wildcats by dumping Errol
Thomas 6-0, 6-0. Dallas now has an im-
pressive 14-7 individual record despite
the top-notch competition he’s faced dur-
ing most of the season.

Junior Sedge Gray continued his win-
ning ways, downing Koray Ortwikler 6-
0, 6—1. Gray also has an above-par indi-
vidual record (13-7) and has been a key
to the Wildcats’ success.

Senior Mark Nottingham com-
plemented the 1-2 punch of the Dallas-
Gray combination by throwing a knock-
out punch of his own to JCSU’s Chris
Womak. Nottingham disposed of
Womak 6-0, 6-0.

The play of the number one, two, and
three players is usually where the
Wildcats get their finishing stroke power

By CHRIS HOLDEN

The Wildcat stickmen continued
their string of bad luck last weekend with
back-to-back losses on Saturday and
Sunday. With only two games remaining
in the season, a winning record is now
impossible. However, a pair of closing
victories would help the Cats redeem
some earlier close losses to finish the sea-
son with a respectable three wins. This
would compare favorably with season
performances in the recent past.

Saturday dawned a perfect lacrosse
day, and spring frolicking pervaded the,
atmosphere on the field before the game.
Charlotte Club was a bit tardy about ar-
riving, and it is possible that our Cats had
too extensive warm-up period.

Indeed, the start was encouraging as
junior Chris Holden tallied right off the
bat on a feed by senior Jay Norman. This
was to be the Wildcat’s only lead of the
day. It remained close for most of the
first half, with Charlotte establishing a
two-goal lead.

The second half saw Charlotte's

former all-Americans come to life. and

pense re ot mee se hey- quickly. jumped outto anon. goal.

/

and defeat many opponents. Head Coach
Jeff Frank believes that the team is very
strong in the five and six singles posi-
tions. “Our top three are doing fine.”
Frank said. ‘Hayes has been playing real
well, and Sedge is playing well, though
he’s coming off some injuries, Mark's
struggling a bit, but he’s practicing quite
hard. Overall we're playing the best ten-
nis we've played all year.”

Though the Cats didn’t get the big
wins from all of their top three players
against Applachian State University,
they did get big victories from their four,
five, and six positions, Sophomore Craig
Hall, playing number four, and junior
John Hackett, at number five, both
pulled off big victories for the Wildcats:

Sophomore Bob Nichols also won for
the Cats at number six. Hall easily beat
Dave Siddows 6-1, 6-1 while Hackett
and Nichols struggled to overcome their
opponents in close matches. The
Wildcats finally nailed ASU to the wall
and picked up the 6-3 victory when
Caldwell and Nottingham finished off
Richard Gabriel and Robby Lowe 6-3,
6—2 in adoubles match which offered ex-
citing points and vollies.

The Wildcats resorted to everything
to pull this one off. Frank even did a bit
of his own tennis teaching but, unlike
JCSU players, the Wildcats listened. In
the end, good advice led to good results.

Lacrosse Team Finds Bad
Luck Instead Of Victory

lead. Dispirited. the Cats finished
bravely, but the scoreboard told the final
tale: 15-9, Charlotte.

It would seem then, that the Cats
would be ready to seek vengeance
against Pfeiffer College on Monday af-
temoon. Bad vibes, though; even Will
Terry's magical presence could not spur
the laxsters to anything beyond a lacklus-
ter performance, It was a tired, frolicked-
out bunch that took on a fresh, well-
coached, well-monied, Pfeiffer team.
The score was a miserable 12-4. with
Norman taking honors and a much-des-
erved goal by senior Brad McCall.

On other days, Davidson might have
done well against Pfeiffer. Said Williams
of the outing: “We never really got our
minds off of the run-down battlefield.
Most of us still had egg on our face. It
was just a mudslide out there, tumbling.
tumbling, never ceasing, always gaining
momentum in its destructive. path to-
wards low ground.”

The team looks for a good perfor-
mance against UNC at Chapel! Hill next
Thursday. Davidson beat NC State; and-
State beat Chapel Hillcccaneg at ot
