)

Friday, March 30, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

Sloan Symposium Addresses Electrical Rates

By DAVID VAN PELT

“The problem is not a small one; it’s
an important one,” said philosophy Pro-
fessor Earl MacCormac last Thursday
about deciding electric utility rates. Mac-
Cormac’s speech, entitled “Background
of Problems in Values and Electrical
Ratemaking,” was part of a Sloan Liberal
Arts Symposium, held last Thursday and
Friday, concerning the theory and ethics
of setting electric rates.

The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation
sponsored the symposium as part of its
grant to Davidson College in 1982 desig-
ned to increase the role of technology in
the College’s curriculum. The sym-
posium, titled “Technology and Values:
Decision Theory and Electric Rates,” is
the second one held this year.

Participants in the symposium in-
cluded Professors James Walker and
Mary Thornberry, representatives from

Duke Power Company and_ other
utilities, and speakers from other col-
leges. Chemistry Professor Nicholas

Burnett presided over the symposium.
MacCormac holds a degree in electri-
cal engineering and is a specialist in the
field of electrical utility rates. “Nothing
that I have ever encountered has more to
do with philosophy than electrical en-
gineering,” he said. MacCormac gave
two speeches during the symposium.
MacCormac’s speech last Thursday
outlined many of the keynote utility
ratemaking problems addressed in the
symposium. One subject he discussed
was the need for private investment in

public utilities. “One of the crucial issues
of today is can public utilties attract suffi-
cient capital for the future to continue the
growth of electrical capacity?” he said.
Noting the faiure of many big-budget nu-
clear facilities at a cost of billions of dol-
lars, such as the Shoreham Nuclear Plant
in New York, he said, “Right now most
utilities are in terrible shape.”

MacCormac also addressed govern-
ment regulation of utilities. While reg-
ulators are authorized to punish ineffi-
ciency in utility companies, according to
MacCormac rewards are limited to com-
panies which operate efficiently. “There
is really not too much incentive within
the system,” he said.

Measuring costs is a significant prob-
lem in public utilities,and many people
misunderstand the different ways
utilities can charge customers, MacCor-
mac said. “A myth is that there is one ob-
jective method of measuring electricity,”
he said. ‘““There are many.”

Other speakers in the symposium in-
cluded Richard Hirsch, Assistant Profes-
sor of the History of Technology at Vir-
ginia Polytechnic Institute, Stephen
Reynolds of the Pacific Gas and Electric
Company, and Chairman of the North
Carolina Utilities Commission Robert
Koger. Hirsch’s speech Thursday night
dealt with the history of power produc-
tion and electric costs.

According to political science Pro-
fessor Mary Thornberry, Hirsch’s talk il-
lustrated the necessity of “putting any
public policy into some sort of historical

context.” Reynolds spoke Friday about
the Life-Line energy program in Califor-
nia, which guarantees every citizen a
minimum quantity of electricity as a
basic human right. Koger’s speech, enti-
tled “Goals for Ratemaking: A National
Survey,” reflected the results of a survey
he conducted among utilties officials and
public commissioners. Koger  con-
structed a hypothetical utility rate struc-
ture based on the results of the survey.

MacCormac concluded the symposium
Friday afternoon with a speech entitled
“Fairness In Ratemaking.”

The symposia are only one aspect of
the Sloan Foundation Grant. The grant
also sponsors academic leaves for pro-
fessors during the year, applied
mathematics workshops for faculty
members during the summer, and indi-
vidual faculty projects during the sum-
me

Florida Professor Declines
Davidson Sociology Chair

By BOB LOPER

The College is currently searching
for a new senior faculty member to take
over leadership of the Department of
Sociology and Anthropology, but it
will probably not fill this position until
the fall of 1985.

According to the curreni department
chairman, Professor Robert Ruth, the
College offered a full professorship and
department chair in sociology and an-
thropology to Graham Kinloch, who de-
clined the position. Kinloch, whose spe-
cialty is racial concerns, will continue his
work at Florida State University.

Ruth said he had highly recom-
mended Kinloch for the job and that he
felt Kinloch would have been a very val-
uable asset for the Sociology department
here. Presently, Daivdson does not have
any full professors in sociology or an-

thropology.

In light of Kinloch’s decision against
coming to Davidson, Ruth and Vice-
President of Academic Affairs and Dean
of Faculty T.C. Price Zimmerman are
planning to travel to the annual meeting
of the American Sociological Associa-
tion in San Antonio, TX. in late August
to contact potential candidates.Accord-
ing to Ruth, the search for a new depart-
ment chairman does not reflect any plan
to reorganize or overhaul the curriculum
of the department.

In its faculty contract decisions made
last December, the College did not renew
sociology Professor Peter Venturelli’s
contract. Venturelli has appealed the de-
cision to the Faculty Policy Committee,
and he will continue to teach here during
the 1984-85 school year. Venturelli de-
clined to comment on the matter.

Participation Increase Pleases Y-Corps Officers

By RAND HARTSELL

“So far the response has been excel-
lent,” said new Y-Corps President Beth
Maczka about interest in the Y-Corps
since she took office in December.

“Since January things have really
been picking up in terms of program par-
ticipation.” Maczka, who was the CROP
program coordinator last year, explained
that the purpose of Y-Corps is to get stu-
dents involved in community service. Y-
Corps vice-president Chris Blake em-
phasized that “all programs involve
human interaction between Davidson
students and community members.”
Maczka and Blake are understandably
encouraged by thenearly 300 students in-
volved with the Y-Corps’s ten programs,
including two newly implemented pro-
grams this spring.

Maczka and Blake attribute much of
the increased student response to im-
proved communication, the service
newsletter to be specific. “The newslet-
ter has been very informative for the stu-
dents,” said Maczka. “Increased com-

-mumicauons betwéén the 1-Corps arid

students is one of our goals.” But it is by
no means their only obstacle to over-
come.

“We need money, and we need a
means of creating a sense of continuity
and establishment. Presently we are at-
tempting to get an office in the College
Union; an office is something we defi-

Chris Blake.
nitely need,” said Maczka. She added

that in the past, fund raising was done ir
a door-to-door manner, one which was

* \netrective in terms of the needs of the Y-

Corps’s various programs. “It was a very
time-consuming process and therefore
detracted from the Y-Corps’s effective-
ness in meeting its goals and responsibil-
ities of service to the community,” Blake
said.

Maczka explained that the Y-Corps is

_now seeking permission to receive vol-

Y- Corps officers Allison McGill, Laura McGee, Beth Maczka, and

untary billing requests on tutition bills, in
the same manner as NC-PIRG. “This
way..if sqmeor= sees on their-son’s vu
daughter’s bill a space that they could
check off as a $10 donation to the Y-
Corps, they might do so remembering
that their son or daughter has been in-
volved in the Y-Corps.”

Maczka and Blake also said that one
of their goals is to involve campus groups
in projects. They mentioned that the
Kappa Alpha Order’s disco for Muscular

Laura McGee

Distrophy has always been successful, as
has the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity’s
Kenya Jam which benefits schools in
Kenya. “Through more involvement
with the Y-Corps, these groups can get
help with organization and planning,”
Blake said.

Maczka hopes the College will give
the Y-Corps more support in the future.
“In the College’s literature, the institu-
tion emphasizes the Y-Corps as an extab-
lished part of the College community and
the greater Davidson community as a
whole.” In light of this recognition,
Maczka hopes the College will respond
to the organization's needs. “We could
also use more faculty involvement in our
program,” she said.

A retreat planned this weekend for
the Y-Corps program coordinators is in-
tended to help in the areas of organiza-
tion, motivation, and program im-
plementation. “This retreat should
strengthen our programs and the Y-
Corps overall,” Maczka said.

o*Fhesttime pcople: we-can ye in-
volved,” Blake said, “the more viable
our programs become. It’s a great oppor-
tunity to see how other people live. At
Davidson we tend to get very caught up
in our own little worlds, and we lose
sight of the fact that- this isn’t all there is
to life. This gives students an opportu-
nity to understand that on an experi-
enced-based level.”
