Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian 5

A History Of Blacks At Davidson
A News Analysis

By DAVID McGEE

When asked what he thought of the
history of black students at Davidson,
one student remarked, “What black his-
tory?”

Next week an inter-racial student
committee called R.A.C.E. (Racial At-
titudes Concerning Everyone) will hold a
discussion on problems facing blacks on
campus. The status of race relations here
have their origins in the 21 years blacks
have attended Davidson. Their history
here is twofold. First stands the decision
to admit blacks and the initial problems
which arose from segregational tendan-
cies in the community. But other diffi-
culties emerged after the integration of
blacks into the College, problems which
still plague the campus today.

Davidson Admits Blacks

Prior to 1961, the College maintained
an unwritten policy not to admit blacks.
Many persons associated with the Col-
lege held that Davidson was founded as a
Christian male institution for whites.
However this policy was challenged
throughout the 1950s — but not by a sub-
stantial majority. The issue of whether or
not to admit blacks came before the Trus-
tees of the College in October 1959. In
his address to the Trustees, President D.
Grier Martin said, “It is not in the best in-
terest of the College to admit Negro stu-
dents at this time.”

But, in 1961, the Board of World
Missions of the Presbyterian Church
petitioned the Trustees to admit blacks
from Africa who would prepare for
further training for missions work in their
home country. The Trustees approved
the acceptance of three black Congolese
students for the class of 1965, but none
enrolled. The following year, Benoit
Nzengu, a Congolese, became David-
son’s first black student. Another Afri-
can enrolled in 1962.

Reaction to the first blacks on cam-
pus was quite apparent. A student poll
taken at the time revealed that only 53
percent of the student body favored inte-
gration. Also, five local businesses
stated that they would not serve the two
black students. President Martin per-
suaded the owner of several movie
theatres in Charlotte to allow black stu-
dents to sit with their white friends, but
only if they called before they came and
brought two.white students to sit on both
sides of each black.

Religion professor Daniel Rhodes
chaired a committee to prepare the com-
munity for the arrival of the two Africans
and to make the two students feel as com-
fortable as possible here.

“It was hard to sort out the motiva-
tions for opposing integration. Some
felt that the action was hasty,” Rhodes
said. “Others were not fully convinced
that the races were equal in any profound
sense. It was a time of deep soul search-
ing across the country and in the commu-
nity.”

In the spring of 1962, the Trustees
approved by a majority vote a new policy
which opened the College to students re-
gardless of race or nationality. Two
American blacks, Leslie Brown and
Wayne Crumwell, entered Davidson in

graduate.

other.

Blacks must learn about white culture in order to survive . . . whites
do not have this incentive to learn about black culture.

The situation here is transitory and circumstantial. Many problems
for blacks are due to history and not specific obstacles. . . it's a mat-
ter of changing Davidson’s image.

It's good that most of those [blacks] who stick it out four years here

You have to carry around your I.D. everywhere to show that you re-
ally go to school here. | can’t even get a check cashed or get into the
gym without someone asking for my |.D. to prove who | am.

| don’t play basketball or football. The majority of black guys here do.
| felt isolated when | came freshman year because all the other guys
had been here for a few weeks working out and already knew each

They all felt that, with more black students, it would be easier to
maintain some soidarity in their identities as blacks.
—From the Black Experience study

—John Eley ‘83
March 13, 1981

—Charles Dockery
Associate Professor of French
Feb. 13, 1981

—William Bynum ‘84

—Davidson student

—Vincent Parker ‘81

(1971)

Ya ee eR A RSS

1964. They were selected from 11 black
applicants and ranked in the top five per-
cent of their high school classes.

By 1968 there was a total of eight
blacks attending Davidson. The increas-
ing presence of blacks on campus further
challenged the segregated insitutions on
campus. In April 1968 a group of stu-
dents and faculty boycotted and picketed
a local, black-owned barber shop which
refused the business of blacks, but sub-
sequently went out of business; the
owner blamed the boycott and the change
in his business practices.

When a local restaurant owner asked
a basketball recruit and his family to sit in
the segregated section, the recruit de-
cided not to play at Davidson. Some say
that the incident cost Davidson that
year’s national championship. Accord-
ing to Dean of Students Will Terry,
“there was an awful lot of desegregation
taking place that next afternoon.” Com-
menting on integration in Davidson,
Wayne Crumwell °68 said, “You can’t
integrate fully here or anywhere else.
What good is there in integrating if the
feeling behind it is not real.”

Clashes between blacks and tradi-
tions at Davidson have occurred re-
cently, however. In the spring of 1981,
the Black Student Coalition organized a
protest against “Old South” day, an an-
nual event of the Kappa Alpha Order.
Fraternity members and their dates at-
tended a social gathering dressed in cos-
tumes of the Civil War era. KA President
Eric Crum °8! defended the event as “a
celebration of KA’s gentlemanly and
chivalrous heritage.” Alvin Atkinson
81, speaking for the BSC, stated: “We
do object to their annual celebration of a
period which, for blacks, signifies the
greatest oppression that our people have
suffered.” KA held the event off campus

»

but canceled it the following year.
Admissions

Through the 1970s, the number of
black students increased steadily; be-
tween seven and 15 were admitted each
year. Currently the 55 blacks on campus
constitute largest number Davidson has
ever had. “It was clear when I came here
[in 1979] that Davidson had a high com-
mitment to recruiting minority students,”
said Dean of Admissions John Griffith.
Griffith said that the College lies in line
with schools similar to Davidson in its re-
cruiting efforts. The competition is keen
for blacks who have the qualifications to
get into Davidson, and the admissions
department devotes a large amount of its
resources to recruiting blacks, Griffith
said.

Ten years ago, athletic coaches and
their assistants carried out most of the re-
cruiting of blacks. The admissions de-
partment began active program to seek

‘black students when Calvin Murphy *70,

a black student, asked admissions direc-
tor Ed White if he could help recruit more
black students. An Assistant Dean of Ad-
missions and Students position was
created in 1977 to give emphasis to
bringing more black students to David-
son and to serve as an advisor to blacks
on campus.

Problems Facing Blacks

The problems facing blacks on cam-
pus have existed since blacks have at-
tended Davidson. The attrition rate for
blacks, although it has decreased in re-
cent years, has concerned many. Already
three blacks who entered this year have
left Davidson.

No statistics exist for the number of
blacks who graduate out of the total
number who enter Davidson, but of the
17 who enrolled in 1978, only five
graduated in 1982 ({wo graduated in

1983). The following year 15 entered
and 11 graduated in 1983. In 1971, six of
the seven blacks who entered were seri-
ously considering transferring at the end
of the school year.

Black students and administrators
often cite the lack of black professors or
other role models on campus as a reason
for dissatisfaction. But Davidson has had
trouble in recruiting black professors and
adminstrators. There are currently two
black professors (French professor
Charles Dockery and sociology profes-
sor James Wooten) and one black in the
administration (Paula Miller, Assistant
Dean of Admissions and Students).

Psychology professor John Kelton,
chairman of the presidential advisory
committee on minorities, said that -re-
cruiting black staff is ‘‘a very difficult
thing to do. There is a great deal of com-
petition nationally (for black professors),
and they are difficult to find in many
specialities. When recruiting is going on
in a department, we inform them of pos-
sible minority candidates.” In 1981 phi-
losophy department chairman Earl Mac-
Cormac received 108 applications for a
position in the philosophy department,
but no black candidates applied. Recruit-
ing more black professors is the “top un-
finished business of the college,” said
Dean of Admissions John Griffith.

BSC

Blacks here have complained that
they have little social life at Davidson.
When Davidson went coeducational in
1973, few black women were admitted
until recently. Currently, 15 black
women attend Davidson. In order to pro-
vide black students a support group, the
BSC was found in 1967 “to establish and
maintain a spirit of solidarity among the
black students of Davidson College,” ac-
cording to the BSC charter. Other pur-
poses include creating a sense of aware-
ness of the contribution of black students
to the College, aiding black citizens in
the Davidson community, and providing
an outlet for the social and cultural needs
of black students.

BSC members emphasize that the or-
ganization is open to all students. Former
students recall that the BSC did little in
its early years because of a lack of stu-
dent support and funding. In 1981. the’
BSC received a Patterson Court house
and has a $7,000 budget this year pro-
vided by the Activities Tax Council. The
BSC will sponsor a play in the spring. as
well as a Martin Luther King Lecturer, a
gospel choir, and Harlem Nocturne. a
variety entertainment group.

In addition, BSC members devote
their resources to recruiting black stu-
dents, writing perspective students let-
ters, and holding orientations for black
students who visit Davidson.

“I get the feeling that people see the
BSC posters and shy away.” said BSC
vice-president Janet Stovall. “Our events
are for the entire campus.” she said.

In retrospect of black history at
Davidson. a 1959 Davidsonian editorial
has meaning today. “As we consider the
problems. our first emotional reaction is
to recoil. . . now is the time to begin to
think about the issues involved.”
