4 Friday, April 13, 1984/The Davidsonian

Councilmen Carnegie and Ward at Tuesday's meeting.

Fraternities Safe For Now

(continued from page |)

Tuesday’s Hearing

The Town Council and the Planning
Board met with North Main Street resi-
dents, as well as fraternity members,
fraternity alumni, and the fraternities’
legal representatives.

Pete Nichols, of North Main Street,
addressed the meeting first. He called the
SPE’s “unsatisfactory neighbors,” citing
as reasons noise, traffic, unsuitable be-
havior, and insufficient parking.

The residents’ main concerns, in-
cluded student turnover, which Nichols
said made dealing consistently with the
fraternity impossible. He was also
cocerned with property values, which he
said the fraternity house’s presence low-
ered. He said several nearby houses will
be gomg on the market soon, so this was
the appropriate time to deal with the
fraternity question.

SPE alumnus Philip Leonard *72 re-
sponded to Nichols. Leonard, a member
of the Alumni Board which owns_the
SPE house felt that the existing ordi-
nances provide the town “adequate con-
trol over the property,” so the town did
not need to alter the ordinance. Leonard
said he felt an anti-fraternity move on the
part of the town would only increase 1so-
lation of the town from college activities

Joe Delaney *60, a Fiji representa-
tive. echoed Leonard’s sentiments.
“Davidson College exists in a township
that 1s very closely connected with the
College,” he said. He felt that the town
had other options in dealing with frater-
nities.

Brian Evans °72, amember of the Fiji

board of Chapter Advisors and the frater-
nity’s legal representitive, conferred
with Kline two weeks ago and learned
the proposed deletion would not affect
the fraternities. At the meeting he
brought that point to the attention of the
Council.

Planning Board Member and psy-
chology Professor John Kelton said he
had been under the impression that “the
fraternities had some sort of right to be
there,” and asked for clarification of

Randy Stroud

whether the proposal applied to the two .

houses which exist off campus already.

Evans also noted that Fiji had re-
sponded to a letter from town Building
Inspector William Potts in 1981 which
required that they have their house’s non-
conforming status reviewed. Town offi-
cials had said earlier they were unaware
of Fiji's response. Evans said the group
had requested a review, but that the town
government had tabled it due to more
pressing concerns.

Though Potts could recall no re-
sponse, Kline concurred with Evans.
SPE apparently did not respond, Kline
said. ,

SPE President Steve MacMillan’s
comments were the last of the evening.
“We would like to be good neighbors,”
he told the gathering. ““We want to com-
municate, we are willing to rectify any
problems. We are willing to cooperate.”

The proposal will now go back to the
Planning Board. The Board will review it
and present it again to the Town Council,
which will either vote on it or defer ac-
tion at its May meeting.

New Bank Opens In Town

(continued from page |)

personal service as benefits to students.
United Carolina also plans to open a
branch this summer across from the Ham
and Eggs restaurant in Cornelius, next to
the 1-77 interchange. ‘We're making a

pretty heavy commitment to this area,”
Bradford said. “One reason we’ re here is

that we see the growth starting to happen
in this county.”

Investor Plans Hotel

(continued from page |)

talked to several companies.

Currie said he is trying to arrange a
meeting with the investor next week
when he visits this area. “I’m hoping he
can stop off and meet with us on this,” he

said. “He’s very optimistic,” Currie
added, “but there is the rest of the feasi-
bility study and the lease agreement to
negotiate — nothing is set in concrete at
this point.”

Kazee Makes Prediction

By TOM SCHILLING

“Mondale will get the nomination
and Reagan wil beat him.” That is how it
stands at the moment, according to polit-
ical science Professor Thomas Kazee.
Kazee spoke on “Candidates’ Political
Awareness” Wednesday night in the
Morrison Room.

The talk centered upon the democra-
tic presidential candidates, Walter Mon-
dale and Gary Hart. Kazee compared
their foreign policies and their positions
concerning the nuclear arms race in par-
ticular.

Kazee depicted Hart and Mondale as
very similar candidates. Each is strong in
different parts of the country as a result of
a common characteristic, “attractive-
ness.” Hart appeared and became the lib-
eral, younger more attractive candidate
for a long time but has now receded.
OriginaHy from Colorado, Hart expects
strong support in the West. Mondale has
the upcoming Ohio, Maryland, Tennes-
see, and North Carolina primaries
strongly in his favor.

The lecture compared the positions of
the candidates on Central America, the
Middle East, arms reduction, and de-
fense spending. The conclusion reached
was that there is little difference in their

views. Kazee included the views of Jesse
Jackson.

As a result of his assessment of each
candidate and of their popularity, Kazee
made a few predictions for the upcoming
election. “The majority of the delegates
left are in states east of the Mississippi,”
where Mondale is favored. Unless Hart
makes an impresive comeback, Mondale
will win the nomination, Kazee said.

Of course the number of delegates
may be wavered by the nominating com-
mittee if polls show that another candi-
date is more electable.

Kazee does not expect the Democra-
tic Party to split in November’s election
due to its many candidates. The two men
are very similar and either will gather
most of the other’s support if nominated.

Kazee said he feel that the democratic
candidates are “activators.” They acti-
vate people into going to the polls to
vote, he said.

Kazee speculated that the country is
probably headed for four more years with
a Republican president. After that, he as-
serted, the country will have had eight
years of Reagan and a well-known demo-
cratic candidate will have a substantial
advantage. Hart, he said, may be looking
toward 1988.

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring
along this money-savin’ coupon.

” “Sian 2 Fa sisouiT an
ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in

|! combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours

only at: participating Hardee’s Restaurants

through May 31, 1984.
¢ 1983. Hardee's Food Systems. Inc.

May 31, 1984.

c 1983. Hardee's Food Systems. Inc.

FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.76 = |

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
' visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
participating Hardee's Restaurants through

A

I
=
