12 Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

Ignorance About Nuclear Arms Is Dangerous

Christi Baggett

When Mike Wilkinson wrote an editorial two weeks
ago asserting that we must wake up to the reality of the
nuclear arms race, I planned to respond immediately
with a hearty “yeah.” I gradually became reimmersed in
Real Life; only a philosophical mood, peppermint
Schanpps and a pertinent article in this week’s New
Yorker have reinstated my Awareness. In other words,
case in point.

I write this article to agree with Wilkinson’s assess-
ment of the danger of ignorance about nuclear arms and
to propose that a measure of idealism may be necessary
to counter the “practical considerations” that have ef-
fected the crisis.

Wilkinson accurately pointed out that one fearsome

aspect of the nuclear arms race is the incredibly wide-.

spread ignorance of the issue. Personally, I came to
Davidson ridiculing “no-nukes freaks.” In the past-year,
my knowledge. of facts and philosophies about nuclear
warfare has undergone an awful expansion; so, in direct
relation, has my concern; I have become one of Those.
Fanatics.

Lectures, “The War Games,” “Atomic Café,”
Jonathan Schell’s The Fate of the Earth, Lewis
Thomas's Late Night Thoughts on Mahler’ s Ninth Sym-
phony, Thomas: Powero's “What Is it About?” (Jan:
1984 Atlantic Monthly): such items convinced me that I
ridiculed out of ignorance. -

Ignorance of man’s terrible power to destroy himself
is a scary thing because its product is indifference. Nec-
essary caution results only from fearful respect, which
results only from knowledge of the power’s magnitude
and: implications. One who doesn’t understand the
mechanics of a grenade will see no danger in pulling the
pin out and continuing to hold the grenade in his hands.

Whe someone mentions the “hypothetically” potetn-
tial nuclear holocaust, the imminently possible destruc-
tion of the human race and its habitat, we think or reply,
“unimaginable.” Possibly — but whether or not ve can
imagine a nuclear holocaust, we can actually, quickly,
easily, produce one.

If we do not begin to learn and imagine and tear, we
may experience. If we do imagine, we can channel the
energy of the anger and fear evoked by a vision of nucle-
ar warfare (if the vision is not so watered down as “The
Day After”) toward constructive thoughts about disar-
mament.

C. G. Jung might say of our ignorance and our un-
willingness to learn, “Consciousness naturally resists
anyting unconscious and unknown.” Actually, he did, in
the first chapter of Man and His Symbols. This chapter.
written in the late 1950s, also includes Jung’s diagnosis
of the world:

If, for a moment, we regard mankind
__as one individual, we see that the human
race also likes to keep certain problems
tucked away in separate drawers. But
this is why we should give a great deal of
consideration to what we are doing, for
mankind is now threatened by : self-
created and deadly dangers that are
growing beyond our control. Our world
is, SO to Speak, dissociated like a neuro-
tic, with the Iron Curtain marking the
symbolic line of division.

The Swiss psychologist continues the “world as
neurotic” idea by declearing taht our attempts to correct
ast/West division and animosity have been “singularly
ineffective, and will do so as long as we try to convince

J

ourselves and the world that it is only they (i.e., our op-
ponents) who are wrong,”

Here many of those few who do not fall into the big
“ignorance” category, or even the bigger “ignorance of
ignorance” category. fall into the category of Stagnant
Practicality. They choose to ignore the issue because “it
is insane to expect the world to forget its knowledge of
fission and fusion — to expect the two superpowers,
much less all countries, to retrace so many steps.”

“Expectation” is possibly unrealistic — but not
necessarily. Moreover, “hope” and “expectation” are
quite different mind-sets, though both may be man-
ifested in constructive action. Hope pursues the possi-
ble; Stagnant Practicality resigns itself to the narrow ac-
tual. Most cancer patients choose to undergo
chemotherapy treatments out of hope — in the chance
that their disease may go into remission. Is their hopeful
action “insane”?

This rhetoric could be applied to any reform issue,
but the issue of nuclear warfare is not just any issue —
it’s possibly the last issue, the ultimate Ultimate! Is there

sanity in refusing to search for alternatives to universal.
suicide, which is the probable.eventual- resolution of the
nuclear arms race? In refusing to admit the existence of
such alternatives?

We reacted in-horror to the-story of Jim Jones and his
cult suicide in Guyana. We thought, “Why didn’t those
fools realize that they had the. power to run away, to re-
fuse to particpate in a pointless, irreversible.‘death
feast?”

The analogy is a fair and rather blatant one. We, like
the cult members, by silently and passively “accepting
our fate” — the fate of nuclear war — can seal that fate.

Or we can remedy our ignoranc, use our imagina-
tions, think, protest, hope.

In the angrily idealistic words of Elvis Costello,
“What's so funny "bout peace, love, and understand-
ing?”

Baggett is a sophomore English major from Thomas-
ville, GA.

_A Two-Pronged Proposal

Lentz Ivey

- There is a social problem at Davidson, a situation
that involves misperception and misunderstanding.
Whites see blacks ag séparatist, aloof, and academically
deficient. Whites, from the black perspective, don’t
“give a damn” about minority issues and feelings.

Though these attitudes draw their genius in
hometown socio-economic environments, they
nevertheless are: perpetuated here.

My purpose is not to illustrate how these attitudes
manifest the fact that there are only two black faculty,
one black administrator and 55 black students, none of
whom hold the top leadership positions in campus or-
ganizations with the exceptions of sports teams and the
Black Student Coalition, is fairly self-evident — in-
stead, I offer a two-pronged proposal for changes.

First, blacks and whites must work together. As any-
one who has worked with others toward a common ob-
jective will attest, unity of purpose develops understand-
ing and friendship.

Unfortunately, most campus organizations do not
enjoy minority participation (no Blacks are members of
the Union Board, and fewer than 10 are members of Pat-
terson Court eating houses and fraternities, for exam-

ple).

Naturally, black participation is limited as a conse-
quence of their numbers. Therefore, it is important that
minorities choose where they wish to get involved. Tht
Union speakers committee is a possible area for involve-
ment because the Black Student Coalition could promote
racial awareness with Union sponsorship as well as get
its membership involved with other speaker-oriented
projects. Likewise, the Student Government’s activities
and Trustee contact committees are also participation
areas. | suggest the former because more minority re-
cruitment could be advocated and the latter because it
provides direct opinion imput for the Trustees. If we can
work with one another in such settings, especially areas
where minority issues could be discussed, then percep-
tions and attitudes would ‘change.

Second, whites and blacks must be open to change
and willing to work with others. This, of course, will re-
quire each of us to examine our own racial feelings and
attitudes.

I realize that these comments do not apply to some
people, the strong and well adjusted. But to the rest of
us, I think our duty is clear — to-see people as people,
not as black or as white.

These objectives must be achieved both within the
community and their country. Indeed, the task of this
proposal is to move that vision forward.

Ivey is a senior economics major from Columbia, SC.
