8 Friday, January 20, 1984/The Davidsonian

Jack Chalker: Science Fiction Comes Of Age

By FRANCES PALMER

and BECKY WATERS
“Science fiction, long the stepchild
of literature, has, I believe, come of
age,” writer Jack Chalker said of his
genre of fiction. The acclaimed author
will speak Thursday at 2 p.m. in the Mor-

science fiction appears to have been suc-
cessful. In 1977, he was nominated for
the John W. Campbell Award by reader
vote at the World Science Fiction Con-
vention for the best new science fiction
writer.

Following the talk and a question-

the opportunity to meet Chalker during
an informal reception, also in the Morri-
son Room. At 6 p.m. a sign-up dinner
honoring Chalker will be held in the
DuPont Room of the Vail Commons.
The Public Lectures Committee is

sponsoring the event in conjunction with

riscz. Room. * and-answer period, students will have the Science Fiction class.
English professor Randy Nelson
compares the opportunity to hear

Chalker speak to that of hearing science
fiction author Isaac Asimov immediately
before he received national acclaim. Nel-

KING OF PIZZA

son's science fiction class currently is 663-3030
studying Midnight at the Well of Souls, 225 S. Broad St.
one of Chalker’s best-known works. Mooresville

Chalker, founder-director of Mirage
Press in Baltimore, has written well over
ten science fiction novels and published a
significant number of other works.

According to Nelson, it is important
that liberal arts students recognize the
serious implications of science fiction:
“My own opinion is that a school like
Davidson is an ideal forum for review of
these problems while they are still sci-
ence fiction. It is absolutely imperative
that these ‘fictions’ not be turned over to
the engineers and technicians completely
as we have:been all too willing to do as a
general population. Out of intimidation

FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night
5 To 10

PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE

FREE

and laziness we in the liberal arts com-

munity have already surrendered too

much of our responsibility,” he said.
Chalker seems to have accepted this

challenge. He comments, “In no other
form of literature may serious questions
be addressed as freely and serious issues
isolated more clearly.”

Chalker’s humanistic approach to

St. George's University Barry University Announcing
School of Medicine Miami Shores,
Grenada, rm Florida RACHEL ELLIOT
West Indies Now at
; THE HAIR PLACE
892-3010
The M.S./M.D. Option Please call for appointment

A Joint Biomedical Science Program of

St. George's University School of Medicine and Barry University.
ST. GEORGE’s takes pride in announcing its eligibility for the

GUARANTEED STUDENT LOAN PROGRAM
Sponsored by The United States Dept. of Education |

1982 Educational Commission For
Foreign Medical Graduates Exam Results

...for U.S. Citizens passing ECFMG in medicine
from all schools in English speaking countries with 5 or more exams taken

A legal
career
in three
short
months

Get right into law with intensive preparation
approved by the American Bar Association.

SCHOOL & COUNTRY 0 % PASSING 100 After completing the three-month program, you
St. George's University, Grenada 180% can take your place as a legal assistant. It's
Royal Coll. of Surg., Ireland 75% one of the fastest growing careers of the 80’s.
Univ. of the Philippines, Philippines 75% ; ; ;
Kasturba Med. Coll., India 60% e Bachelor’s degree or attorney sponsorship required.
Cebu Institute of Medicine, Philippines 47% e Day and Evening classes available.
Univ. of the East, Philippines 44% e Employment assistance.
Lyceum Northwestern, Philippines 44% e Classes conducted in Atlanta.
Far Eastern University, Philippines mpm 43%, da . ~ A. on eee a
Sencar ND clttennig oo me egg ee I ERE TTF Ce tee sue ca Chithipas 8 oF 58
American U. of the Caribbean, Montserrat 41% - F riday, February 3, 1984
Perpetual Help Coll. of Laguna, Philippines 40% Placement Office
Ross University, Dominica 39% 9:00-12:00
Univ. of the West Indies, Jamaica 33% “UU-12:
St. Louis University, Philippines 33%
Southwestern University, Philippines 32% (404) 266-1 060
Virgen Milagrosa Inst. of Med., Philippines 29% [On Gh GD GD GD GU GW CU GRO eee eee
Manila Central University, Philippines 16% .
Saint Lucia Health Sciences Univ., St. Lucia fesempens ide’ Name
The above rankings were taken from “Resutts of 1982 ECFMG Examinauons” published by The Educational Committee for Foreign Medical Graduates, Philadeipnia Pennsytvania Address
For inquiries regarding this unique program City State Zip
commencing in May of 1984, contact: Comes Wo Grad
s University United States and Canadian citizens may direct St. George's University
School ool ot N Medicine inquiries to The North American correspondent: is proud to be ranked Phone: Day Evening
C.V. RAO, Ph.D. Foreign Medical Schoo! Services C fi
Grenada, West indies oreo” One East Main Street orp. ~ forthe second year The National Center for
Bay Shore, New York 11 arow
(516} 665-8500 Parale Training

3414 Peachtree Road, N.E., Atlanta, GA 30326

= fe

