este | evi |

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 10

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, December 12, 1984

Task Force Identifies Problems And Sets Goals

By DAVID McGEE

The Presidential Task Force on Ra-
cial/Ethnic Concerns last week released
its report that calls for broad changes and
development of Davidson’s policy to-
ward minorities. The report proposes a
policy statement for the College to pur-
sue, discusses current strategies and poli-
cies here, and explores successful poli-
cies of schools similar to Davidson. The
task force’s report is not complete, how-
ever.

Before the task force submits its re-
port to President John Kuykendall, it will
seek suggestions from the Davidson
community in two forums.

Faculty are invited to a forum Jan. 9,
and students are asked to attend another
forum the following day.

“We are looking forward to these
forums,” co-chairman John Griffith said.
The task force hopes, he said, that stu-
dents will attend the forums after study-

ing the report in order to facilitate more -

Santa entertains Philip and Ophelia Venturelli at the Union Christ-
mas Party.

SGA Reschedules Elections

By TED WILSON

In a special meeting Monday night,
the SGA Senate voted 22-1 to suspend
the by-laws and reopen the sign-ups and
elections for Union, Davidsonian, Y-
Corps, Miscellany, and Wildcat Han-
dbook offices. Sign-ups now will run
from Dec. 11 until Jan. 8 in the Deans’
office, and elections will be held Jan. 15.

The meeting was held to determine
whether the Elections Committee had
adequately publicized the sign-up dead-
line. Junior Rob Vaughn claimed the
comimittee had not.

Vaughn, who failed to meet the dead-
line, said “the Election Committee is re-
sponsible for adequately publicizing the
election,” which includes using two
campus media, and indicating deadlines
and eligibility requirements. He argued
that the committee failed to publicize the
event adequately.

At the beginning of the meeting,
SGA president John Laughlin said a two-
thirds vote of the Senate was required to
suspend the by-laws which mandate that
the election sign-up deadline is the sec-

(continued on page 4)

meaningful discussion.

According to the report's policy
statement, “[u]nder the leadership of the
President, with participation of faculty
and administration, and where appropri-
ate, alumni and students, reasonable and
attainable goals and strategies for the im-
plementation of this policy will be de-
veloped. For the immediate future, the
goals and strategiés will focus on blacks.
The administration will evaluate prog-
ress on a regular basis, and will report to

the Board of Trustees.”

Policy recommendations _ include
seeking Trustees, faculty, staff, and stu-
dents of various racial/ethnic heritages
and enriching the academic program here
with the contributions and experiences of
racial/ethnic groups.

Other goals would foster a communi-
ty supportive and responsive to all races,
minimize the attrition among Davidson
minorities, involve more fully black and

(continued on page 5)

Davidson Names New
Athletic Director

By LEE WHITE

Davidson last week selected Kit Mor-
ris as the new Athletic Director. He will
assume his duties Jan. 1. Morris comes
to Davidson from Yale University. At
Yale, Morris was associate director of
athletics for varsity sports.

During his three years there, Morris

“coordinated a 33-team Division I pro-

gram with an operating budget of $2.5
million. Morris served with Yale’s Ber-
keley College as a resident fellow.

The selection of Morris ends a search
begun last May when former Athletic Di-
rector Ed Farrell resigned the position to
devote his efforts to coaching football.
Farrell held the post until last October
when tennis coach Jeff Frank, field hoc-
key coach Pat Daly, and Physical Educa-
tion Director Sterling Martin took on the
director’s duties up to the selection of a
new athletic director.

Prior to his years at Yale, Morris was
assistant to the director of athletics at
Harvard from 1978 to 1981. In addition,

Bill Giduzy

Kit Morris
during the summer of 1981 he served as
dean of students for Harvard's summer
school.

Morris, a native of Jackson, Miss.,
received a bachelor of arts degree with
concentration in English, history and
(continued on page 5)

College Surveys Students,
Gathers Data For Self-Study

By DAVID VAN PELT

The SGA and faculty self-study com-
mittees are currently compiling student,
faculty, and departmental reports for use
in the College’s self-study project.

The SGA distributed three different
surveys to random student samples ac-
cording to President John Laughlin.
“We've had a high rate of return,”
Laughlin said. “It should make our find-
ings statistically valid.” Laughlin hopes
to have all student surveys collected by
Friday.

The samples, which were distributed
to 200 students each, will form the bulk
of the SGA self-study report to be com-
pleted by the end of January.

Laughlin said surveys were designed
to discover “any glancing weaknesses
that students perceive in the College,”
adding that the final SGA report will
serve as a reference for faculty commit-
tees in their own self-study projects.

The SGA formed three committees to
distribute the surveys and organize the
self-study report, according to Laughlin.
The student activities committee,
chaired by sophomore’ Mickey
McDonald, covers extra-curricular eve-
nts, such as Patterson Court, intercol-
legiate and intramural sports, and religi-
ous life.

Senior Will Cardwell chairs the stu-
dents services and Physical Resources
committee, which deals with such areas
as student housing, the infirmary, and fi-
nancial aid. Junior Anne Lambert chairs
the Government and Academic Concerns
committee, which includes curriculum
and the SGA.

**Much of what we have done so far is
gather information,” said psychology
Professor John Kelton, Chairman of the
faculty self-study steering committee.
The faculty self-study project consists of

(continued on page 4)
