Friday, October 12, 1984/The Davidsonian 13

IMAC Flickerball — Midseason Report

By HUNTER GOURLEY

While the number of IMAC playing
fields has diminished, oddly enough —
and fortunately, too — enthusiasm over
flickerball has not. In light of all this en-
thusiasm and the adaptability most IM-
ACers have displayed in dealing with
some of these minor hardships, it’s time
that flickerball, perhaps the most popular
fall activity on campus, gets a little
something of what it deserves.

No, not new fields to replace those
that were stolen, not a new stadium or
even equal rights for playing time in the
old one, along with all the other teams.
Flickerball deserves some respect. Right
Rodney? And perhaps, some ink, too.
Hence, this brief midseason report.
Freshmen and women first.

The Newcomers

The freshmen come to play this fall,
though not necessarily to win. But then
again, what do you expect with so little
emphasis placed on flickerball during
freshmen orientation? The first week of
IMAC action — way back in mid-Sep-
tember — saw three freshmen teams earn
victories. One of those came by forfeit.

That team was the C-Men (named
mockingly after those famous. sailor
boys?) from third-center Belk. They, no
doubt, gladly accepted such an easy vic-
tory. For Three Bald Men of third-east
Belk and Main Drag, the freshwomen of
first Richardson, victory came the old-
fashioned way, earning them 26-13 and
6-0 respectively against experienced
teams (whose names will remain a sec-
ret).

‘ te e .

Two members of the “Penthouse Babes” kickoff in IMAC flickerball.

The team from second-center Belk,
the Banana Hammocks, were welcomed
into the flickerball world in a more tradi-
tional manner — an unmerciful 61-0
spanking by the KA Gold. Perhaps it’s
some consolation, or at best a fairly safe

ACCOUNTING
ART

BUSINESS ADMINSTRATION
ECONOMICS

FRENCH PHILOSOPHY

SERVICE

IS THERE A BOTTLENECK IN YOUR LIFE?

TRY

THE STIMULATING
ATMOSPHERE OF

Saint Louis University’s
Academic Year in Madrid

Designed for the concerned student who may not be financially affluent, the one who de-
mands seriousness in education.

Enjoy the Theaters, Museums & Cultural Life of the Spanish Capitol
QUALITY INSTRUCTION AT ECONOMY PRICES IN:

HISTORY
LANGUAGE
LITERATURE
POLITICAL SCIENCE
PSYCHOLOGY

SOCIOLOGY

FOREIGN Yy

TEACHING ENGLISH AS A SECOND LANGUAGE

Our Center is located in the Ciudid Universitaria. Staff is recruited from three local universities. Trans-

Atlantic Flights: $225. Accredible courses taught in Spanish, personal direction, educational travel.

Year's Tuition: $3700. Three hundred students currently enrolled. Maintenance in family or dormitory
runs from $200 to $300 per month according to degree of comfort.

Half of our student body are Spaniards — Make friends with your hosts from
the first minute.

Information: Raymond L. Sullivant, S.J.
Callle de Vina, 3
Madrid 3, Spain

Contact Campus Representative, Bill Heard
Telephone: 892-6198

bet, to pick this merry band of KA milk
drinkers to go on to win the entire flicker-
ball shooting match.

Yet another freshwoman team came
so close to winning that we’ ll score it as a
moral victory. Third Rich’s Third De-

892-3165 Sat. 10-6 CASHION'S

Brad Brechte! , isbauer

VIDEO MOVIES

Are at Cathy's Book Swap
OVER 500 MOVIES

Rent Two, Get One Free!

$4 FOR 4 DAYS
No Membership Fees

Portable VCR Machines For Rent

Hwy. 115 -Tues.-Fr. 10-7 One Block South of

Cathy's Bookswap/Video Cornelius

|

Enthusiasm Is Up Despite Fewer Playing Fields

gree nearly upset the vastly experienced
Warner Hall team in a 7-6 thriller. Oops
— I overlooked a big first-week victory
by a talented team from third-west Belk,
the Fighting Scots, over the SPE team,
Flex Crush, in a 31-19 blood bath.

All you frat-baggers and groupies
will be thrilled to know that (with the ex-
ception of Flex Crush, alas) the teams of
eternal brotherhood are once again play-
ing to win in other league games. KA
Gold and the SAE’s Throbber Flicks are
at the top of the standings in their respec-
tive divisions, I and IT. These two peren-
nial flickerball powerhouses met last
Sunday in a match that may forbode anti-
climax in the future and which the Gold
won rather decisively in the second half.

PiKA’s first team, We Bomb in Five,
looks to take the honors in the third divi-
sion if all goes according to their plans.
In the final men’s division it looks as if
Ages 3 and Up, an independent team
made up of some less than haughty
SAE’s, faculty, and staff might walk
away as big winners. But there are three
other freshmen teams that continue to
improve, a Fiji team, another PiIKA one,
and of course Flex Crush, all to contend
against in this well-balanced division.

The Woman’s League

Finally then, there is the woman's
league. And once again it looks as if ex-
perience will reign supreme. Warner
Hall has moved up in recent rankings to
second place behind the Penthouse
Babes. Look for it to end this way as
well. But then again in the topsy-turvy

world of flickerball, who knows?

CATHY'S
BOOK SWAP/ VIDEO

