Friday, April 6, 1984/The Davidsonian 9

SPORTS

Tennis Coach Jeff Frank watches one of last week’s matches

Scrappy Men’s Tennis

Seeks To Survive Slump

KERRY BROWN

During the past few years the David-
son men’s tennis team has had the prob-
lem of overcoming a mid-season struggle
against an abundancy of top-notch adver-
saries. Again, this year the Cats have
been hit by a mid-season crisis, and
they’re still trying to revive themselves
and return to their winning ways.

The storm hit the Wildcats when
West Virginis blew away Davidson 6-3
in the sixth match of the season. UT-
Chattanooga and Furman then added to

.the Wildcat’s problems by defeating
Davidson in the 12th and 13th matches of
the season.

Now the Cats are 7-6, a record pre-
sently not up to par with coach Jeff
Frank’s 15-10 record of last year.

Stull, the Cats have been able to prove
they can play with the best in the South-
ern Conference. Past tennistecords show
Furman (conference champion) ending
its season unspectacularly because of a
long regular season. ““They’re usually all
‘tennised” out after About 40 matches,”
Frank said.

The Cats hope to take advantage of
this particular Furman Achilles’ heel.
With this hope in mind, the Wildcats are
looking toward improved performances
later in the season and an exceptional
showing at the Southern Conference
tournament. But they still must over-
come their current mid-season slump.

At the beginning of the season, Frank
said he wanted “scrappy tennis” from his
top six, and he got a bit of hussle-ball
from his big gunners. But it wasn’t
enough. The Wildcats should now be 8-5
according to Frank, and, perhaps, with a
little more “scrappiness” they could have
had that record.

Correction

Last week we incorrectly identified a tennis player in a photo caption.
The caption should have identified the player as Eric Arkin.

A disappointing loss came during the
opening match against Western Michi-
gan, but since that first game the Cats
have given Frank exactly what he wanted
— good, solid tennis playing.

Frank surely saw what he wanted
when the Cats beat Amherst, 9-0. Sedge
Gray, who played number one singles for
Davidson that match, Crushed (with a
capital “C”) Spencer Gray, 6-2 6-2,
while freshman Hayes Dallas, playing
number two singles, beat Fred Sheppard
with his powerful game, 6-2 6-2. Other
strong performances were given by Mark
Nottingham, Craig Hall, John Hackett,
and Bob Nichols.

After the Wildcats made a meal out of
Amherst, they came very close to defeat-
ing Wake Forest, who managed only a 5-

Randy Stroud

Western Carolina Crushes
Cats In Three Game Series

By ANDY BARRON

Western Carolina swept Davidson's
baseball team in a three-game series last
weekend at Davidson. Errors, inconsis-
tent play, and the Catamounts’ solid per-
formance combined to defeat the
Wildcats.

Saying Western swept Davidson is an
understatement. Pounded is more accu-
rate. Western outscored Davidson 42-13
over the three games. The pitching
staff's earned run average ballooned
about half a point to 5.53 during the
series.

“We were never consistent,” said
Coach George Greer. “That inconsis-
tency wasn’t just game to game either. It
was inning to inning and out to out as
well.”

Davidson started the series poorly
when Western scored eight unearned

runs in the first inning. After the shock of

that inning wore off, Davidson played
even with Western for several innings. A
late game surge by the Catamounts
pushed the final score to 16-2.

The second game was the only one
that was even close. After fighting hard,

Davidson lost 7-4. Senior Scott Redding
once again failed in his bid to pick up his
first win of the season. “If Scott con-
tinues to pitch like he has been, he'll start
winning some games,” said Greer.

Western drubbed the Cats 19-7 in
series finale. Sophomore Scott Weaver
did an about face from his shutout of Fur-
man a week earlier by allowing 17 runs,
14 earned, in taking the loss.

The series definitely hurt the Cats in
the conference. Davidson now trails the
division-leading Catamounts by — six
games. Many of the Cats’ errors can be
attributed to Davidson's inability to prac-
tice because of bad weather.

However, Greer expected a better
performance in the Cats’ crucial upcom-
ing series against the Citadel.

“It's tough to get excited about losing
three games,” said Greer. “However,
I'm still optimistic about the rest of the
season. Our young players have played
well. I’m also very pleased with the
leadership provided by seniors Jeff McS-
wain, Scott Redding, and Mick Smith. If
we play as well as we are capable of play-
ing, we should do well the rest of the sea-
son.

~Women’s Tennis Makes
Conference UnrefusableOffer

4 victory.over Davidson. Frank was:.

pleased with the team’s performance
against.the Deacons: “It’s.something. we
haven't done ina while.”.....

In the match against Wake Forest,
Craig Hall destroyed Marco Lucioni, 6-2
6-2, to aid the Wildcats,*and-John Hac-
kett defeated John Vinson, 4-6 6-3 6-2,
to give Davidson a victory in the number
five singles spot. Bob Nichols also con-
tributed points by pounding Lance Lan-
water, 3-6 6-0 6-2, in number six singles.

“Scrappy” performances on the court
like these are what Frank wanted in the
beginning of the season, and the
Wildcats are doing everything they can
to achieve victories for the coach, them-
selves, and the school. Since the Wake
Forest defeat, the Cats have managed a
4-2 record, losing only to Southern Con-
ference powerhouses Furman and UT-
Chattanooga. If they can get through the
mid-season crisis unscathed, they will be
looking at another good season.

By KERRY BROWN

What has the 1984 tennis season been
for the women’s tennis team? It’s been
all business."The Lady Wildcats have be-
come a dominating force in women’s
tennis, and they’re beginning to show
signs that their newest role in the tennis
circles is one that is similar to a mobster’s
in the drug world. In short, the Lady Cats
have become kingpin’s in their own devi-
ous and skillful way.

The Wildcats are now 8-3 and are
searching for more prey. Their most re-
cent victim was East Carolina. The Lady
Cats defeated the Lady Pirates 6-3 and
showed them where the new muscle lies
in local, and perhaps regional Women’s
NCAA Divison III tennis.

However, the Davidson Women’s
Tennis Program is definitely looking for
something more. Something like a re-
spectable showing in the Division III Na-
tional Championships. Recently, the
Cats were ranked nationally, and are
surely in the position to become the Dark
Horse in the race for the Division III
championship.

As things stand now, however, the
CATs might be in for an uphill struggle
for the remainder of the season. Though
the team did defeat respectable adver-
saries such as UNCC 5-4, High Point S-
4, and Kalamazoo 7-2, they now must
face the likes of Appalachian, Wake

Forest, Emory, and UNC-Greensboro.
Yet, with seniors Sue Hamilton, Adelyn
Lutz, and Eleanor Knobloch leading the
team with their senior leadership.and tal-
ent, the season has been an exceptional
one.

The squad made Gardner-Webb pay
its dues the hard way. The Wildcats
crushed the mediocre Gardner-Webb
team by a scofe of 8-1. Then the Cats
went on to beat four more opponents:
Radford, 8-1; Skidmore, 9-0; Sweet
Briar, 9-0; and Kalamazoo, 7-2.

Though the Wildcats are indeed a
power to be reckoned with, they are not
yet up to the standards of national com-
petition. This was evident when the Lady
Wildcats boldly challenged Rice in the
opening match of the season, and Rice
effectively showed the Wildcats what na-
tional caliber tennis was by using an
overall stronger, quicker game. William
and Mary also beat Davidson, 9-0.

It looks like the Lady Wildcats don’t
seem to be ready for any sort of national
competition, but the Cats aren't in the
strongest division in the NCAA and
perhaps they will be able to compete bet-
er in Division III. Presently, the tennis
program is out to make a name for itself,
and looking for collegiate victories.
Until post season, it’s business as usual
as long as the Women’s Tennis. team
keeps winning.
