Friday, April 6, 1984/The Davidsonian 1]

Rugby Balances Finesse, Brutality And Beer

By HUNTER GOURLEY

Know much about that English cor-
ruption of American football? Some-
thing about it? Anything at all? Nothing?
Well, join the crowd — mostly on-look-
ers of course. Only a crazy person would
play if he or she were completely ignor-
ant of the game. Then again, many
people might maintain that only the com-
pletely ignorant play anyway. Perhaps
they are correct.

The name of this relatively new (to
America, anyway) sport is rugby football
or simply rugby. It is catching on in the
U.S. and Canada in much the same way
that soccer did.

People seem to enjoy rugby for many

of the same reasons they like ice hockey.

Sees

Both sports provide exciting, fast-paced
action and full contact, not to mention a
precarious balance between finesse and
brutality.

Though watching any sport can be
enjoyable to some people, spectator
satisfaction for most viewers seems logi-
cally to correspond to a knowledge — or
at least a vague awareness — of the game
being played. Many people at Davidson
know a little something about rugby sim-
ply because of its association with post-
match keg parties.

This introduction to rugby is per-
fectly understandable, since the party no
doubt makes much more sense than the
match. Spectators and participants alike

find no real enigma in these post-game

activities: when one is hot, tired, and
very thirsty, cold beer tastes great. Be-
sides, nothing takes better care of a
headache and other pains, physical (mus-
cle) and social (a lost match), than a few
cold ones poured down in rapid succe-
sion.

But remember, as a general (infor-
mal) rule and common courtesy, it is
considered evidence of one’s own bad
taste (and perhaps the beer’s good taste)
to attend a rugby party without first
watching some portion of the match it-
self.
Remember playing “smear the
queer” as a kid? Rugby is similar to that
childhood game, but with more rules and
some kicking added — all to make it

seem more complex, more grown-up.

There are fifteen players on each
Starting team. Usually the biggest and
strongest eight athletes play the forward
positions. They function much as an of-
fensive and defensive line do in football.
Three shorter, stockier forwards play on
the front row. The lightest and most fleet
of foot of the forwards occupies the mid-
dle position as the hooker. The hooker is
supported on either side by the two other
forwards, called props.

Behind them is the second row of for-
wards. These four players must be big
and tall because they do most of the push-
ing and driving against the opposing
team.

The last row consists of one person,
the eight man, who controls the ball with
his foot when his own forwards win pos-
sesion. Together these eight players form
the scrum. Hence the term “scrummer.”

When you see one team’s scrum
binding together and locking heads with
the opposing scrum, that is called a
scrummage. They perform this rather
odd ritual in order to possess the ball
which the scrum half, or quarterback,
tosses into their midst. The hooker taps
the ball back into his second row and the
entire scrum attempts to outpush their
opponents and “walk over” the ball until
the number eight man can control it.

Meanwhile the scrum half has run
around to pick up the ball and pass it
backwards (there are no forward passes)
to a group of seven smaller, quicker run-
ners called backs.

The backs are like the running backs
of football, but they must also play de-
fense, lateral, and kick. Angling back
from the scrum at a 45 degree angle or
less, they are composed of the standoff,
the inside center, the outside center, and
the left and right wings. Behind this line
of backs is the fullback, who plays like
football’s free safety and lets no man or
ball get behind him.

Ideally, the object is to get the ball
out to the fastest players, the wings, and
advance until a four point try
(touchdown) is scored. This ideal is
rarely achieved, however. Much can
happen to complicate things from the
time the ball travels from the scrum to the
backs. But this is more than enough for
now. Perhaps something concerning the
complications next week.

Classifieds

FOR SALE — Very high quality
Baker, Kimball, Councill, Sherrill, and
Southwood furniture for sale to David-
son College Faculty and Staff. Suitable
for home or office. On display at old
Harris-Teeter Supermarket, Cornelius.
Also available: Pontiac Convertible,
low mileage, GREAT PRICE! Call:
GIFTS-IN-KIND, ext. 412.

MISSING WATCH — Restore my
faith in the honor code... My watch
was taken/stolen from the gym Mon-
day night. It is a black Casino digital di-
ving watch. My mother gave it to me. |
would graciously appreciate it if you
would give it back to me. No questions
asked. Call Pat at 892-6070.
