HE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 4

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, October 5, 1984

Caroline Hunt, the wife of senatorial candidate James Hunt, Jr., visi-
ted Davidson yesterday. She met briefly with Hunt for Senate Com-
mittee members in the Center for Special Studies.

Few Davidson Students
Apply For Fellowships

By ROXANNA GUILFORD

“An exceedingly small number of
Davidson seniors” are competing for fel-
lowships and scholarships in national
competition, according to a recent report
of the Faculty Committee on Graduate
Fellowships and Scholarships.

“Except for the Watson Fellowship,
for which Davidson students apply in
healthy numbers, our students show little
enthusiasm for attempting to win the
best-known scholarships and fellow-
ships,” philosophy Professor and com-
mittee chairman Lance Stell wrote in the
report.

Stell said only one Davidson student
last year, Hunter Monroe ’84, applied for
the Rhodes scholarship. Monroe re-
ceived the scholarship.

Stell attributed the lack of interest to
factors ranging from a “who me?”
mindset to the system of teaching at
Davidson. While some students simply
may not be aware of all the possible fel-
lowships and scholarships, Stell does not
view this as a major reason. While he ac-
knowledged various other “complicated
reasons” for the low number of applic-
ants, he said “some of that is just plain
apathy or inertia.”

Stell said the lack of interest in
graduate fellowships among students
here is unusual. “At most colleges simi-
lar to Davidson,” Stell said, “there is
heavy pressure on these awards. Compe-
tition within many schools like Davidson
is fierce,” he said.

For Davidson to join the ranks of

(continued on page 4)

Perry, Faculty Cultivate Ideas For Rusk Program

By DAVID McGEE

Since the Trustees approved the Dean
Rusk Program in International Studies in
1983, the College faculty and adminis-
tration have formulated ideas concerning
the focus of Davidson’s international
education curriculum in coming years,
including a new three-term course for
freshmen in international studies.

Last Thursday night in Atlanta, Ga.,
Davidson named Ambassador Jack Perry
to head the Rusk program. Perry will
move to Davidson next summer, but will
remain in contact throughout the year
with the International Education Com-

mittee to develop a specific plan for the
program by: next fall.

Perry was on campus today and yes-
terday meeting with students, faculty,
and Trustees.

Yesterday, he outlined his initial
thoughts and plans for the program be-
fore the International Education Com-
mittee. He said he wants students to gain
a global awareness and “‘to think in world
terms.” In addition, Perry would put em-
phasis on foreign language studies. He
would like to have students specialize in
one area of the world in a concentrated
study. Also, Perry said, the international

Student Self-Study Group
To Help With Accredidation

By JOHN GATHINGS

The 1984 student Self-Study Com-
mittee has organized and will gather stu-
dent viewpoints “on all aspects of the
College” as part of an accreditation re-
view, according to committee co-chair-
man John Laughlin.

The committee will obtain student
input for inclusion in an informal report,
due February 1, and present it to a head
committee. This committee will then
evaluate the student information and in-
corporate it into a report to the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools.
“There is no reason to doubt we will be
re-accredited,” Laughlin said.

Laughlin wants a study comprehen-
sive and accurate in its representation of
student opinion. “We hope to include a
broad range of student input,” he said.
“Ten years ago it was just a questionnaire
handed out to 200 students.” This year,
Laughlin plans to reach a broad cross-
section.

The student committee will base its
report on three surveys, each distributed

to 200 students. As a result, 600 students
will participate in the survey.

The committee will contact each of
the students selected in arandom sample.
The student will return the survey to his
or her committee contact. This method
will safeguard the accuracy of the survey
to a greater degree than an impersonal
approach would, Laughlin said. “We
want to insure a high rate of return on
this,” he added.

Structure of the Report

Once the committee receives the in-
formation from the three surveys, it must
compile the material. The information
will be run through the College com-
puter’s Statistical Package for the Social
Sciences (SPSS) system, according to
Laughlin.

The student committee will use this
information to write an informal report.
The report will present statistical infor-
mation as well as prose responses. The
head committee is then responsible for
evaluating the student report. “We hope

(continued on page 5)

program’ a. studéf “undertakes should
have some relationship to the student’s
future career and major.

For now, Perry plans to begin an as-
sessment of the current international pro-
grams Davidson offers. “I want to gather
ideas from every possible source,” he
said. Perry may begin the program next
fall with a lecture series. Other consid-
erations include a requirement of interna-
tional literacy for graduation and a cer-
tification for completing studies under
the Rusk program.

Introduction To International Studies

The International Education Com-

mittee hassubmitted a grant proposal
which, if accepted, would fund an inter-
national studies course for freshmen.
The faculty has not approved the pro-
gram yet. The program would be a three-
term class, which would begin in the
winter term. The first term woyld aim at
increasing international literacy, cover-
ing geography, culture, economics, and
recent global history. At the end of the
term, freshmen would submit a proposal
for summer study outside the United
States, and the “best” proposal, accord-
ing to the grant proposal, would receive
(continued on page 4)

Maloney
Awarded

Service Medal

By LEE WHITE

“Institutions have a way of shaping
our lives,” remarked religion Profes-
sor Samuel Maloney, accepting the
United States Air Force Meritorious
Service Medal at a ceremony Wednes-
day evening in Hodson Hall.

The award recognizes his service
in the reserve as an Air Force Chap-
lain. Maloney retired last May after
serving as Chaplain of the North
Carolina National Guard and for the
317th Combat Support Group. As a
chaplain he performed pastoral duties
and counseling work.

The citation said Maloney was dis-
tinguished in performance of his
duties, and it said he has shown “pro-
fessional skill, leadership and inspira-
tion” over a “long and distinguished
career.”

Maloney has served 38 years in the

Professor Sam Maloney

military, both on active and reserve
duty. As a_ high school senior,
Maloney planned to attend Davidson
and become a minister. The attack on
Pear! Harbor changed those plans, he
said. His father was drafted, and to re-
main with his mother, Maloney en-
tered college at the University of Ten-
nessee in Knoxville.

A year later, he enlisted in the
Army Air Corps and in the cadet avia-
tion program. Commissioned as a sec-
ond lieutenant in June of 1944, he
served in the Pacific theater during
World War II as commander of a B-24.

(continued on page 5)

