Friday, September 21, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

Trustees Approve New
Building For WDAV

By DAVID VAN PELT

“We're hoping to be able to move in
the summer of 1985, certainly before
fall,” WDAV Station Manager John
Clark said of plans to relocate the station
to a site across from Food Lion on Wat-
son Street in Davidson.

According to Clark, construction of
the new building, scheduled to com-
mence this month, has yet to begin.
“There is a little more caution than ordi-
nary,” he said. The Physical Plant is
“real concerned about making sure the
acoustic environment in the building is
right,” he said.

According to Clark, WDAV has
needed a new location since it began
broadcasting in 1978.

About its present location in the base-
ment of the Union Building, Clark said,
“It’s a totally inadequate place to have a
radio station.” Noise from student traffic
and water pipes in the production studio
disturb operations almost continually, he
said. ““To stay in the Union won’t solve
the problem,” Clark said.

The College looked at several exist-
ing buildings to house WDAV. A plan to
move into the old Post Office fell through
when the Computer Center was given
that space, Clark said.

Earlier this year, he said, it appeared
that the station would move into a house
recently purchased by the College after
the houses’s owner died.

The town, however, refused to re-
.zone the area to allow the radio station to
relocate there. Clark believes the Trus-
tees’ decision in June in favor of con-
structing a new building is the best option
considering the “‘unique requirements”
of a radio station.

A new building for the station makes
up only a phase of a three-part plan to up-
grade WDAV, according to Clark. The
station may purchase new broadcast
equipment, including an audio produc-
tion console, tape decks, microphones,
and a satellite dish with which to pick up
WDAV’s syndicated programming. The

station now receives that programming
on prerecorded tapes. WDAV has al-
ready purchased much of its new equip-
ment, including several microphones
and tape decks.

WDAV also plans to apply for an ex-
panion of its power, from approximately
20,000 to 40,000 watts. The Federal
Communications Commission must ap-
prove the increase, which Clark esti-
mated would take six to eight months.

Though the Executive Committee of
the Trustees approved the construction of
a new site, it postponed consideration of
the new equipment purchase and power
increase until its next meeting in Oc-
tober. Clark feels confident that the Trus-
tees will pass the resolution.

Clark estimated the cost of the
WDAV improvement package at about
$300,000, of which the College will pay
half if it approves the remaining propo-
sals in October. The WDAV Advisory
Board, a group of community volunteers
in the Charlotte area, will raise the other
half. This is in addition to the station’s
$233,000 yearly budget, of which the
College donates $50,000.

Though excited about the prospects
of WDAV’s move, Clark acknowledged
several problems which will accompany
the relocation.

The railroad tracks separate the site
from the Computer Center, which could
lead to difficulties with the station’s
hook-up, according to Clark.

‘.Clark also expressed concern -about
the relation of ‘the new building to
WDAV’s transmitting tower south of
Cornelius. WDAV currently uses a
microwave signal to relay programming
to the transmitter. This procedure, ac-
cording to Clark, requires a direct view
of the tower. If the new building does not
provide this, Clark said, a new tower
may be erected at a more appropriate lo-
cation, or a system could be set up to
relay the WDAV signal from the new
building to the Union Building to the
existing transmitting tower.

The skeleton of the new tenis courts

College To Drum Up
Athletic Complex Funds

By RICHARD CLOUDT

Lack of funding continues to stall
progress on the long-planned athletic
complex. Vice-president for Develop-
ment Jack Powers said the College will
not begin construction on the complex
until sometime in 1987, although the
new Knobloch tennis building now under
construction on the old soccer field
should be completed sometime next
spring.

The College has had several large do-
nations, according to Powers, including
a pledge from the Belk Foundation for $1
million and $250,000 from an anonym-
ous donor. Other smaller donations have
been collected, but the College still
needs approximately $8 million before
construction can begin.

The fund-raising campaign, one of
the largest projects on the 1987 Pro-
gram’s list, is just getting under way.
“Our only problem is identifying and en-
couraging people who will have interest
in donating large sums,” Powers said.

He noted that a single donation to At-
lanta’s Emory University covered the en-
tire expense of its new athletic facility.
“If we could find that one donor, we’d be
ready to go,” Powers said. He said Col-
lege President John Kuykendall has com-
mitted himself to completing the cam-
paign by 1987.

Powers pointed out that the complex
would strengthen the whole athletic pro-
gram, for it would give students a com-
plete indoor recreation center. He said
the new indoor tennis facility will do
much to promote the “up-and-coming”
tennis program.

The tennis facility was once part of
the plan for the Athletic Complex. Origi-
nally the complex was to consist of four
principle parts. One section is to be a col-
lege-sized basketball arena.

The second section of the complex
will be a swimming facility. The swim-
ming program at Davidson has become
almost non-existent for lack of an ade-
quate pool to host swim meets. The third
section of the complex will be the central
core containing offices for administra-
tion, a weight room, afid racketball
courts.

The fourth section of the complex
will house an all-purpose recreation
room. Powers said this part fo the com-
plex will either be changed or eliminated
due to the decision to build the tennis fa-
cility.

The tennis facility is designed to
mesh with the athletic complex, Athletic

Director Ed Farrell said. But, Powers
emphasized, it is not connected with the
athletic complex as far as funding is con-
cerned.

By JILL BOYETTE

Like most Davidson freshmen,
Cerue Diggs is having to adust to an
unfamiliar lifestyle. Coming to David-
son from Ivory Coast, Africa, she also
has the task of adjusting to an unfamil-
iar country.

A_ well-travelled 18 year old,
Diggs has lived in Liberia, Nigeria,
Kenya, and Guyana as well as the
United States. “I’m a citizen of the
world,” she said. “I’ve seen so much it
makes me different. I’ve had to learn
to like each place where I’ve lived.”

Diggs visited Davidson last fall
and decided to attend school here. She
was attracted by the school’s high
academic standards and friendly at-
mosphere. “I don’t feel lost anymore.
It was a shock here, the first days; it
was a drastic change of people and cli-
mate. I am not quite accustomed to
hearing so much English. I have not
used my English for a long time,” she
said.

She added that Americans are very
different from Africans. She feels that
Americans are liberated and used to

saying what they think. “A woman
wearing shorts would not be accepted
at home, yet here it is nothing,” she
noted.

Diggs noted that personal relation-
ships here are also more open. She said
friendships between members of the
opposite sex are very rare in Africa.
She sees the abundance of such
friendships in the United States as an
advantage.

Advantages in the American

school system also impressed Diggs.
“American schools make the student
like school — that’s good. We had so
much work [in Africa] . . . we were
strained.”
Davidson's Honor Code was very ap-
pealing to Cerue. No rules against
theft, for example, existed at her high
school in Abidjan, Ivory Coast.

Diggs hopes to become a doctor
because she enjoys sciences, espe-
cially anatomy and biology. As a
world traveller, she also enjoys lan-
guages. She speaks German and is
fluent in English and French.

Her voyage to the United States,

Cerue Diggs: ‘mA Citizen Of The World’

i)

amy

Cerue Diggs

she said, was strenuous because of the
long waits and tedious problems.
“There is trouble all over the world and
everyone is running to the United
States. They will not let you in the
States unless they know exactly why
you are going.”

The Ivory Coast is presently trou-
bled by corruption and political ten-
sions, according to Diggs. “When |
lived in Nigeria I witnessed a coup
d'etat. There were people running in
the streets, screaming. | heard shots
and saw men shooting guns,” she said.

A similar incident occurred at
Diggs’s all-girl boarding school in

Abidijan. “The students of the only
university went on strike... . They
asked all the high schools to join them.
We declined, so they came and broke
our windows and threatened us. We
were forced to change our uniforms
before leaving school so they could not
identify us.”

A noticeable contrast to such polit-
ical turmoil is apparent at Davidson,
where Cerue finds the students nice but
reserved.

“They treat me more formally —
no one jokes or teases with me,” she
said. “But,” she added, “I don’t feel
left out. | have made some very good
friends here. They make me feel com-
fortable — they make me feel at
home.”

Diggs offered some advice to other
foreign students. “In America, every-
thing is possible; it's never too late to
learn. Take advantage of all the oppor-
tunities to learn. There is so much and
we have time here.”

Diggs is the daughter of Professor
of International Affairs Lafayette
Diggs.

