S

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 2

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, September 21, 1984

Committee To Mediate Self-Selection Disputes

By DAVID VAN PELT

Dean of Students Will Terry’s ap-
pointed Self-Selection Committee be-
gins its second year this fall with the
same commitment to act as a “mediating
group” between freshmen and _frater-
nities, according to chariman Charles
Jenkins.

“This year I see our role as more of an
educational committee,” Jenkins said.
He said most of the complaints about
fraternity actions result from a lack of

knowledge about self-selection require-
ments. “That’s when problems come
about, when people don’t know what’s
going on,” he said.

Terry formed the cominittee last year
to educate freshman about self-selection
and handle disputes between freshmen
and fraternities. “Last year I was very
pleased with the way the Self-Selection
Committee worked to keep fraternities
sensitive to freshmen’s rights.” Terry
does not generally attend committee

President And Yon
Discuss Project ’87

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

Project "87 makes a “strong, positive
suggestion” toward solving the problems
of racial integration, sophomore Andrew
Yon said Wednesday at an Open Lunc-
heon.

Yon, president of R. A. C. E. (Ra-
cial Attitudes Concerning Everyone),
spoke with College President~John
Kuykendall on the issue of racial aware-
ness in the Davidson College communi-
ty. The forum centered on the goals of
R. A. C. E., the issues and ideals be-
hind Project ’87, and the newly ap-
pointed task force on minority concerns.

Yon described the goals of
R. A. C. E.: to bring more blacks to
campus and to integrate campus blacks
into campus life. Yon recognized that ef-
fective integration is the most difficult of

MSN ie

the two goals, yet he felt it can be
achieved with the attention of the trustees
and the administration.

Project '87, promoted by the Black
Student Coalition, calls for more black
students, black professors, and black
studies at Davidson.

Kuykendall said Project ’87“ . . . is
a responsible and temperate state-
‘on-a.Matterof gentine’con-

m.” He said it effectively identifies
areas in which there is a need for progress
in racial relations at Davidson.

Kuykendall formed the committee on
minority concerns as a response to Pro-
ject ’87. The task force, he said, will
spend the next two months studying the
racial situation at Davidson and will re-
lease a report November 30 that will re-
late the findings of their study.

(continued on page 7)

meetings and does not handle disputes
unless asked, he said.

“They may appeal to me, but they
don’t work through me,” he said.

The committee last year issued two
sanctions. One of these was a written re-
primand to Sigma Alpha Epsilon frater-
nity. SAE President Duncan McColl des-
cribed the incident as a misunderstand-
ing. “It was something that got twisted
all the way around,” he said. “An indi-
vidual said something that was taken the
wrong way.”

McColl said SAE was basically con-
tent with the way the committee operated
last year. “We had to make major adjust-
ments in the way we did encourage-
ments,” he said. “But we can adjust with-
in the system with no problems.”

Kappa Alpha Order received the sec-
ond sanction and at one point was forbid-
den to invite freshmen to the house for 10

days. This followed a complaint brought
against the house by a “rival fraternity,”
according to KA officer Hartley Hall.
According to Hall, the committee made
several “procedural errors that hopefully
will be worked out this year.”

Of the fraternity’s punishment, Hall
said, “We weren't informed in any sys-
tematic manner. We just kind of heard it
through the grapevine.” Nevertheless
Hall credits the comittee for doing “a
very fine job overall.”

Jenkins acknowledged the need for a
more systematic way to handle disputes.
“T think last year they didn’t have that
quite nailed down,” he said. In its first
year, he said, the committee “defined its
role and found out how it was supposed
to function.”

Last year’s chairman John Hackett, a
committee member again this year,

(continued on page 7)

Presidential Advisory Papers
To Convey Student Opinion

By DAVID VAN PELT

“I don’t ‘expect’ him to act on them,”
SGA President John Laughlin said of the
Presidential Advisory Papers presented
last Wednesday morning to President
John Kuykendall. “They're meant as a
point of reference for him to use in
gathering student opinion.”

The SGA _ Presidential Advisory

Committee, headed by senior Elizabeth
Brooks, compiled the papers last spring
to acquaint fhe new President with im-
portant campus issues. Because Brooks
has an internship this term in Asheville,
N. C., Laughlin supervised the comple-
tion of the papers this fall. Laughlin said
he is scheduled to meet Monday with
Kuykendall to discuss the papers.
(continued on page 7)

By THURSTON HATCHER

“I’m afraid Dr. Kuykendall only
has two nights free this month,” says
Loyce Davis, the president’s secret-
ary, to a prospective dinner host on the
telephone.

So it goes for new: College Presi-
dent John Kuykendall. In two and a
half months he has sprinted from
orientation sessions to committee
meetings, social events, and other ad-
ministrative duties. Now that fall term
has begun, the.pace has hardly slowed.

Kuykendall knew, however, that
leaving his position in the Religion de-
partment at Auburn to take on David-
son’s top post would bring about some
major changes in his and his family’s
lives.

Kuykendall officially became
Davidson’s president on July 1, and
the first item on his personal agenda
was to move his family into the house
at 408 North Main Street.

Accustomed to an academician’s
transient lifestyle, the Kuykendalls felt
prepared for the difficulties the move
might entail. “Actually, this is the
easiest move our family has had,” says
Kuykendall.“‘There was no U-Haul.
Instead the moving van came right to

President John Kuykendall

our door, so it was a breeze this time.”

Not surprisingly, the Davidson
community did its part to help the
Kuykendalls with the moving in pro-
ess. “The people in Davidson were
very concerned. We appreciated their
opening their lives and hearts to us,”

Kuykendall said.

Kuykendall recognized the diffi-
culty of such a change for his wife
Missy and sons Tim, 18, and Jamie,
15. “We anticipated some trauma for
Tim and Jamie, but the Davidson
young people have been very sensi-

For Kuykendall, The Pace Has Hardly Slowed

& and people, and the emergence of that

Christian Harbe:

tive.” Tim and Jamie both attend North
Mecklenburg High School.

Missy Kuykendall had her own job
in Auburn, but now she has a full-time
task ahead of her in dealing with the
various responsibilities that accom-
pany her position as Davidson's first
lady.

While his wife and sons adjusted to
life in another college town, Kuyken-
dall spent the first month much like a
freshman, re-orienting himself to a
Davidson quite different from the one
where he once studied. “It is, of
course, different in terms of buildings

change bespeaks the fact that I’m not
coming back to the place I left.”

He tries to approach his job in such
a way that he can balance his various
duties, particularly meeting with
alumni and getting in touch with the
Davidson community, while still leav-
ing some time to spend with his family
and for leisure.

“Right now I have to discipline
myself and use time more self-con-
sciously than I have in the past .
I'm trying to spend a good deal of time
with alumni early without slighting my

(continued on page 7)

