6 Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Davidson Gentlemen?
Student Entrepreneur Scott Otto Corrals Attractive Men For Calender

By IDA PHILLIPS

I knew Davidson was lacking some-
thing. Sure, we have a library, a few
dorms, and a couple of big clocks on the
buildings, but the college did not seem
complete. Luckily, someone became
aware of Davidson’s deficiency and
acted upon it. And so we have the first
“Davidson Gentlemen” calendar.

Senior Scott Otto decided to create a
calendar after reading an article about the
success of a Harvard men’s calendar.
Aided by two female’s discerning eyes,
Otto developed a list of 30 “good-look-
ing” Davidson males to be tested for the
job. After test shots are taken, 12 lucky
men will be chosen to be immortalized
on the calendar.

Over 20 of those approached have
tested for the calendar. “Most guys were
basically flattered by it,” he said. Otto
believes that the fact that similar calen-
dars have been published encourages the
models.

The models chosen must be more
than attractive personages. Otto stressed

that being photogenic is the main re-
quirement. As for living up to the stan-
dards of “Davidson Gentlemen,” Otto
was not concerned with the models’ per-
sonal characters. “The calendar will be
sold to a lot of schools where people
don’t know the guys, so we won’t go on
their ethical qualities. Basically, the
Davidson gentlemen on the calendar will
be those who look the best,” he said.
The calendar will be comprised of
black-and-white pictures of men in vari-
ous poses. The model’s first name and
fraternity will be included. Otto gave a

brief chuckle when questioned about the.

type of poses. “I’ve gotten some pretty
crude comments about that, but I won’t
repeat them here,” he said.

When the female judges chose the
candidates, they noted how the models
would look best. “One or two guys will
definitely have no shirts. I guess they'll
be doing something like running or
throwing a frisbee. Anything that creates
diversity. I don’t want to have all of them
stripped to their underwear, because that

UMOC-emeritus Scott Otto has the look

tends to get bering, to a certain extent,”
he said.

Whereas the models get all the glory,
Otto only wants a little money. “I don’t
expect a humongous profit, but certainly
a decent one.” Beyond selling the calen-
dar in the Davidson Student Store, Otto
hopes distribute it to schools in neighbor-
ing states. “I got a list of schools that
have some affiliation with Davidson,
such as athletic events. I sent each of
them a letter describing the calendar and

=
°
-
2
a
>
:
a

asking how mny they would buy.” Otto
hopes that after printing | ,000 calendars
for the first edition, he will receive re-or-
ders. =

Although the models are not being
paid for their work, they seem to be en-
joying this unique opportunity. “When |
got the letter asking me to do it, I read it,
thought about it, and then laughed hys-
terically. I was amused and flattered,”
one student said. One, model was quite
surprised at his selection: “I never
thought of myself as a calendar boy.”

Another model expressed concern
about the amount of clothing he would
agree to wear. “I wouldn't do a nude be-
cause I’d have no future here.” He went
on to tell a horror story about a female
student at Duke University who modeled
in the nude and promptly disappeared
from the campus and school records.

The calendar should be on the market
during spring term. Otto said he had re-
ceived some ribbing about going into
posters and foldouts if the calendar is a
success.

Workshop iil: Thought- Provoking Drama And Tragic Comedy

Aria da Capo’s Thyrsis and Corydon

By ROSS HOLT

Fof the past two weeks, the valiant
elves of Theatre 201 and 202 have
worked to set up the next set of workshop
plays. Last night, Workshop IIT opened
in a theatre rearranged from the round
into a thrust stage.

This week’s plays — Overtones, di-
rected by Jeff Mann, and Aria da Capo
directed by Lisa Brawley — lack the
force of those of the past two weeks, but
both productions are intriguing and en-
joyable.

Overtones, by Alice Gerstenberg is a
study of four women — four in two. As
the play lights rise, Hattie and Harriet are
discussing the difference between them-

selves. Actually, they are two faces’of'

the same woman: Harriet, played by Al-
ison Rose, is the public face, the pretty,
happy wife and socialite. She also repre-
sents the set of rules that keep Hattie in
check. Hattie, played by Cla re Eckert, is
the private face — Harriet’s real desires.
The two are inseparable, however, and
consequently appear together onstage,
dueling for control.

The real duel begins when Margaret

. — played by Sarah Smith — and her alter

ego Maggie — played by Mary Hill —
arrive. Hattie wants Margaret’s husband
John, a struggling artist, while Maggie
wants Harriet’s richés and social status.
Thus the differences between the pas-
sionate Hattie and the more scheming
Maggie play out in the polite, coffee-

Peggy Pierotti

and-cakes social interaction between
Margaret and Harriet. Still, neither face
of either woman can take complete con-
trol of her alter ego.

Director Mann milks the blocking for
all it’s worth. As the women vie for con-

trol of themselves as well as each other,

they maneuver and jockey for position
physically as well as emotionally. The
actors move about the relatively small
stage fluidly, punctuating each others’
lines with their crosses.

The actors play well off each other in
all combinations (Harriet/Hattie, Mar-
garet/Maggie, Maggie/Hattie, and Har-
riet/Margaret), and the viewer never
loses the sense that the four parts make
up only two women.

These factors, combined with effec-
tive costumes (color-keyed to the charac-
ters) and lighting touches, come together
to make Overtones _ entertaining,
thought-provoking drama.

The evening’s second production,
Edna St. Vincent Millay’s Aria da Capo
is an at first confusing juxtaposition of
comedy and tragedy given a dissonant
production.

Director Brawley spreads out the ac-
tion ona black and white chess board. As
the play opens, black-clad Cothurnus,
played by Dan Metzel, sets up a scene
which looks like a cross between-a birth-
day party and a baby shower. Two
clowns (or perhaps harlequins) take the
stage, Columbine, played by Christiana
Wiseman, and Pierrot, played by John
Toler. Unfortunate despite the best ef-
forts of Toler.and Wiseman (who are
very good), the play fails to draw in the
viewer until its second section.

After Columbine and Pierrot banter
for a while, apparently about the things
which draw them to each other, Cothur-
nus returns as a stage director and re-
places their scene with a tragedy. Thyr-
sis, played by Pat Donley, and Corydon,
played by Leslie Bryan, are friends who
are torn apart when they make a game of
building a wall between one another.
Each trapped on a different side, they be-
come suspicious of the other’s intention.
Thyrsis moves only on the white squares
while Corydon moves.only on the black.
Donley and Bryan work well together as
the distance between their characters
grows — along with the animosity. The
promised tragedy unfolds, and Colum-
bine and Pierrot return for a brief denoue-
ment.

Though this production of Aria is un-
iformly fine, the play itself is hard to fol-
low. The necessity behind the first Col-
umbine/Pierrot scene becomes apparent
only after the tragedy scene is over. That

_long first scene leaves the viewer won-

dering only about how the scene ties in,
rather than thinking about its message.

The ending, however, is quite effec-
tive in getting across that message and
somewhat redeems the first scene’s
dramatic inadequacy. Still, here is evi-
dence why Edna St. Vincent Millay is re-
membered mainly as a poet rather than as
a playwright.

The visually striking set and cos-
tumes, however, along with strong act-
ing from the cast, make the play well
worth seeing. With Overtones’ intensity
and Aria da Capo’s production value,
Workshop III presents a strong evening's
diversion.
