Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian 15

Reagan’s Domestic Policy Woos

Dr. Thomas Kazee

For American voters, 1984 promises to be much
more than a symbol of George Orwell’s vision of gov-
ernment gone mad. When they go to the polls in
November to chose between Ronald Reagan and his
Democratic opponent, those voters will directly influ-
ence U.S. domestic policy in a number of areas.

It therefore seems appropriate, before the evidence is
in as to the choices Americans will make this year, to
briefly assess the state of American politics and policy.
Given that most political prognosticators — myself in-
cluded — think that Reagan will win in 1984, where will
we be headed during the 1985-1989 period?

Perhaps the most important question of the last half-
decade concerns the role of government in our lives.
Though some would suggest that most Americans are
opposed to “big government,” and are, in fact, moving
to the right of the political spectrum on this fundamental
gajuestion, the evidence does not-support this contention.

‘Americans seem to want big government, but not too
big. If you doubt that premise, suggest significant cuts in
the Social Security program to a congressman this elec-
tion year. Reagan Administration policies may represent
a needed correction to an overemphasis on government
in general, but there is little reason to believe that Ameri-
cans are not supportive of an activist federal govern-
ment. As Everett Carll Ladd, director of the Roper Cen-
ter for Public Opinion Research, writes:

Consider, for example, the issue of pub-
lic spending for social services. People
may complain today that taxes are too
high, that bureaucrats intrude too much,
that “the government” wastes money.
But ask them what they want to do in
each specific policy sector, and they
reply, “Keep going.”

The “Reagan Revolution” struck a responsive chord in
the hearts of many affluent Americans because it prom-
ised to reduce the size of the federal government without
significantly diminishing the often unrecognized sub-
sidies to the middle and upper classes. The programs
which were targeted for the most substantial reducitons
were largely directed at the disadvantaged. As New
York Governor Mario Cuomo notes in the most recent
edition of Public Opinion magazine, “Only some have
been given less government . . . those who need help.”
The “revolution,” of course, promised to reduce the size
of government and reduce taxes — but significantly in-
crease spending in some areas, such as defense. Not only
that, but the large budget deficits of the Carter Adminis-
tration would be reduced.

The result of what Vice President (then-Republican
presidential candidate) George Bush once called “voo-

Eczmeee

w CRUEL BID SAD!
ES EN ENORES
Nate

robust approval ratings in recent public opinion polls.
Given that “pocketbook” issues tend to be of great im-
portance in American elections, this seems to bode well
for Mr. Reagan’s chances in November.

If he is reelected, then, should we expect a continua-
tion of tax reductions, cuts in government program, and,
in general, an increasingly conservative set of policies
emanating from Washington? In all possibility, no. Asa
second-term president without a majority in the House of
Representatives (and perhaps a slimmer majority in the
Senate), Ronald Reagan will find it increasingly difficult
to push through his preferred policies. Further tax reduc-
tions are simply politically impossible with the deficit at
its present level. In fact, we are likely to see tax increases
of various kinds passed by Congress (with the Presi-
dent’s implicit or explicit support) as a means to reduce
the deficit. In short, though Jack Kemp does not concur,
both President Reagan and the Democrats have iden-
tified the deficit as the most serious economic problem to
be addressed in the near future (though they understand-
ably disagree about who is to blame for the problem).
Specifically, some form of consumption tax, rather than
increases in taxes on income, seems likely.

There are, of course, a variety of other domestic is-
sues which government will address in the latter half of
the 1980s. Those which would be the most.influenced by
the outcome of the 1984 presidential election include the
so-called ‘‘moral” issues and civil rights policy. In civil
rights, the Reagan Administration has been notably less
active than its predecessors — Republican as well as
Democratic — in enforcing existing civil rights statutes
and appointing minorities to government positions. The

There have been, of course, more encouraging signs in the
economy. Lower inflation rates, reduced unemployment, and
relatively stable interest rates have led many observers (read:voters)
to conclude that Reaganomics is working. .

doo economics” has been very large government deficits
— perhaps more than $300 billion in the near future, ac-
cording to a recent Congressional Budget Office projec-
tion.

There have been, of course, more encouraging signs
in the economy. Lower inflation rates, reduced un-
employment, and relatively stable interest rates have led
many observers (read: voters) to conclude that
Reaganomics is working. It is this perception which al-
most certainly has contributed to President. Reagan’s.

administration has also lobbied for weakening the 1965
Voting Rights Act, albeit unsuccessfully. and Mr.
Reagan’s pattern of appointments to the U.S. Civil
Rights Commission has been widely criticized as an at-
tempt to diminish the independence of that panel.

As to the “moral” issues, the Reagan Administration
is likely to push for the passage of legislation (or Con-
stitutional amendments) restricting abortions and strik-
ing down prohibitions on prayer in public schools.
Those efforts will not be particularly successful, though

Voters

“ aH

ate

I RDA,
We.

ca maaan

some political gain may be realized (at least in terms of
the approval of the more conservative elements of Presi-
dent Reagan’s supporting coalition) by paying lip ser-
vice to those changes. Republicans and Democrats in
Congress do not welcome the “opportunity” to deal with
these politically sensitive issues; they would prefer that
the courts continue to set policy in these areas.

It is, in fact, that judiciary to which one might look
tor evidence of durable policy changes resulting from a
Reagan victory in 1984. Though all appear to be in good
health, a number of justices of the Supreme Court are in
their seventies and several have had recent periods of ill-
ness. The possibility exists — though it 1s just a possibil-
ity — that President Reagan could appoint several new
justices during the next four years. Given the precedent
for judicial activism established by the Warren Court of
the 1960s, the consequences of a Supreme Court with a
profound Reagan orientation are apparent. This, of

' course, represents speculation of the most extreme sort,

since we do not know how many such vacancies will
occur (if any), nor can we predict the behavior of Reagan
appointees yet-to-be-named. We do know, in fact, that
the Burger Court, which includes several Nixon appoin-
tees, has not dramatically altered the ideological direc-
tion of the Court by reversing earlier rulings.

This essay has not touched on the implication of a
Reagan success at the polls for American foreign policy:
for a discussion of those critical issues I will defer to my
more expert colleagues. However, itis clear that the out-
come of the 1984 presidential election will make an im-
portant difference in domestic policy. With a Reagan-
Mondale confrontation (or even a Reagan-Glenn con-
test), the choice is not, as George Wallace once said, be-
tween “Tweedledum and Tweedledee.” It is not as clear,
however, that most Americans recognize the importance
of the choice. A September 1983 national survey by
Yankelovich, §$kelly, and White asked Americans
which political party they thought would be better able to
deal with twelve different policy concerns, including re-
ducing crime, providing a quality education, reducing
the risk of nuclear war, controlling inflation, keeping
our defense strong, and so on. In eight of the twelve
areas, more Americans chose the response “no differ-
ence” than either of the two major parties; on the remain-
ing four, “no difference” placed second. This is a con-
clusion with which I cannot agree, for the choice Ameri-
can voters make in 1984 — both in terms of presidential
candidates and parties at the congressional level — will
make a great deal of difference in policy in the years
ahead.

Kazee ts an Assistant Professor of Political Science.
