10 Friday, October 5, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Production Manager
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David-Van Pelt, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor Will Thomason, Advertising Manager

Ross Holt, Editor

Election 1984

In the 1984 elections, candidates of all parties have relied heavily on
student support. In addition to voting, active involvement in the election
— working for a candidate’s campaign, for example — adds another di-
mension to one’s appreciation of an election.

That a variety of political groups have organized on campus is en-
couraging. Efforts to inform student voters, like the bulletin board in
Chambers, should aid student voters come Nov. 6.

Yet, beside the bulletin board appears the more undesirable elements
of a campaign: the graffitti board. Do innuendo and off-color slurs add
constructive debate to any election? Clearly, there exists a tendency at
Davidson for politically- oriented groups not to tolerate their opposition.

Such attitudes, of course, are not indigenous to Davidson. Didn’t a
prominent Republican this summer urge all moderates to do the party a
favor and leave it?

No one should forget the ultimate goal of an election: to choose a
government based on a consensus of the people that government will
serve.

Constructive debate bolsters a consensus — bickering and accusa-
tion undermines it.

Unfortunately, barriers to understanding issues mount, and political
organizations should work to clarify them. To distinguish between real-
ity and illusion remains the true challenge for voters and political groups

Great Publicity

Hey! For the amazingly low price of $1, according to the SGA mi-
nutes (9/26/84), you and all your friends can get Davidson some great
name recognition, and at the same time, help save Lady Liberty!

Forget the huddled‘masses yearning to breathe free. Forget the gold-
en door. But remember ol’ D.C. If you — yes you — give, “this would
provide great publicity for the College.”

Don’t miss this opportunity. Act now — don’t miss out your chance
to help the College and to preserve a part of America, to boot!

Go, Cats!

Last week the Davidson football team came close to pulling an upset.
Even though the Cats lost the game, they stomped the oddsmakers.
Coach Ed Farell noted how the strong support of a few Davidson suppor-
ters aided the Cats’ efforts.

Tomorrow, at Homecoming, Davidson faces The Citadel. The Cit-
gadel Bulldogs expect to run rough-shod over the Cats. But then, so did
the Penn Quakers. .

No one can predict with certainty what will happen tomorrow. The
Cats may lose. But their — our — chances will be considerably im-
proved if the Bulldogs must contend with a massive dose of Davidson’s

school spirit. Something like that would fire up the Cats, and cool down
the Dogs.

The Davidsonian Is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson,
NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class
Davidson College. “ heidby then “

News Staff: Boyd Blackbum and Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editors; Ginger Broaddus, Richard
Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Shane Meeks, Tom Schilling, Chandon
Sinlia, Lee White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson, Chris Hughes, Jill Boyette

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Corliss Carter, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, An-
drew Wilson, Thurston Hatcher

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor; Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Christian Harberts, Kevin

. Horan, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmeicik, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Laurin de Beck, Joanneke Brentjens, John Redding, Todd Wiebusch, David Van
t

Production Staff: Kevin Horan, Brooke Knight, Pauline Rhodes. Compositors: Anne Lambert,
Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide
Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

Ath eres

#
ze

/ FrSCloudt 10)5/#*

i.

~~.”

til

|

ARRA

LETTERS

Race

To the Editors:

I get the strange feeling that we have
a race relations problem at Davidson,
and that repetitious arguments presented
this way or that in newspaper articles do
little to narrow racial division. In light of
these keen observations I suggest that
those of us who wish to improve race re-
lations here rethink our goals and our
strategy for attaining them.

Specifically, I recommend that
people who see a problem and want to get
rid of that problem do not obfuscate their
goal by involving themselves in nasty ar-
guments about things like inherited guilt
and the like. Debating such issues with
people who for some reason dread the re-
sponsibility we all have to ameliorate this
situation distracts people from our true

goal and, I believe, broadens the
dichotomy between blacks and whites by
ignoring everbody.

The goals of R. A. C. E. and the
Black Student Coalition include integra-
tion, equal treatment, and reduced ten-
sion (not assimilation or dissolution of
culture) among the blacks and whites on
campus. These goals will be reached in
two ways: By the passage of Project ’87
and, in the meantime, through the efforts
of concerned and hopeful whites and
blacks to do things like sit together,
dance, date, do nautilus, get married,
etc.

Those goals will be reached; the
question is, where do opinions articles
enter into our plans to gain our objec-

tives? I maintain that articles by those

who are making an effort to help should
always be aimed at progress in our pro-
ject by reporting those things that have
been done, shall be done and must be
done. This is what I consider a construc-
tive approach.

The recent history of this mysteri-
ously controversial issue shows, how-
ever, that students enjoy using The
Davidsonian as their podium for bicker-
ing in negative, even nasty tones. Clearly
many people don’t care much about the
race issue and some dispute the impor-
tance of the issue entirely. The support of
these people will not be won by constant
exposure to mean or technical articles.

Simply put, many people will not
make any effort. I say leave them be; do
not dispute their picayune and irrelevant
objections to our goals. Granted, it’s
satisfying to snap back at someone who
disagrees with you. My point is that such
rebuttals distract people from the posi-
tive motives of the many people excited
by the racial awareness on this campus.
People generally resist involvement and
action in complicated issues. It is there-
fore nonsensical for us to get caught up in
complicated squabbling over whether or
not there’s a problem and who is respon-
sible.

There is and we all are. So let us not
fight in ink against those who resist im-
proved race relations for whatever
reason. We should concentrate our ef-
forts in a more constructive vein. An ex-
citing possibility for better race relations
exists on this campus without the permis-
sion of the stubborn few.

Sayres S. Rudy

Awareness

To the Editors:

I would like to let student body know
the purpose of a group which has just
started this year: Nuclear Awareness.
The committee is part of the Y-Student
Services Corps and has an advisor, Dr.
Louis Ortmayer. It is a group on campus
dedicated to sponsoring activities and
programs which will help us all become
better informed on the Nuclear Arms
Issue. It is the conviction of the people
workirf® with the group that the nuclear
arms situation is an issue of supreme im-
portance to everyone and _ therefore
should not be taken lightly by any per-
son.

The goals of the committee are to
provide (1) factual information and (2)
well-substantiated differing viewpoints
in order to encourage everyone to learn
more about the issue and to learn to de-
fend an opinion. This committee is not
advocating any particular viewpoint.
The committee’s belief is that it is of the
utmost importance for the United States
to have an informed citizenry which is
willing and able to exercise meaningful
influence in government action concern-
ing this issue of particular importance to
us all.

Mike Wilkinson
Founder and Leader,
Nuclear Awareness
