THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIll, Number 23

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, April 20, 1984

DCF Dissolves, Members Consider Reorganization

By DAN VOORHIS
and BOYD BLACKBURN

“DCF is dead,” declared Davidson
Christian Fellowship President Frank
Ivey. In a dramatic ceremony at Coffee
and Cokes last Wednesday in front of
Chambers, several DCF members dres-
sed in sombre clothes, and bearing a cof-
fin, pronounced the organization’s de-
mise.

This means that there will be no more
large group meetings. The Fellowship
ceases to exist. Spokesmen Craig De-
tweiler and Ivey explained that DCF had
failed in its mission to meet the needs of
Davidson students. They criticized
themselves and DCF for misrepresenting
the true nature of Christianity.

Ivey said in his speech, “I have been
dead because I have failed to love people
as I should. I have been dead because |
failed to reach out to others where they’ re
at. I have been close-minded, and have
judged people unfairly. I have been in-
sensitive to people’s needs, insensitive to
the very point of not even trying to find
out what those needs are. But most of all,
I have been dead because I have not been

AI Speaker

Zimbabwe

By DAVID VAN PELT

“Torture is a scourge that by all rights
shouldn’t exist, that should be banished
from the earth,” said Amnesty Interna-
tional speaker-Peter Briscoe, who spoke
in the Morrison Room last Monday.

As an example of the practices of
many countries, Briscoe detailed his own
experiences in the south African nation
of Zimbabwe, where “torture is the stan-
dard method of investigation.”

Briscoe was imprisoned in Zim-
babwe for over a year between 1982 and

Paul-bearers mourn the passing of DCF

alive. I have not been alive to the power
and glory of Jesus Christ in my life.”
Ivey continued, asking onlookers not
to confuse DCF with the word of Christ.
“DCF is dead, but Jesus Christ is alive,”
he said. He warned the audience against
identifying the practices and attitudes of

Recounts

Experiences

1983, beaten, interrogated, and tortured.

Zimbabwe, formerly Rhodesia,
existed under white minority rule until
1980 when a long civil war ended with
the election of black Prime Minister
Robert Mugabe. Mugabe has ruled the
country since then.

Briscoe was born and educated in
South Africa. Trained as a pilot, he left
the South African Air Force for the
Rhodesian Air Force in 1969. He re-
mained in the country after its indepen-
dence in 1980, and though Zimbabwe
has lost almost 25 percent of its white
population since then, Briscoe says he
had “every intention of staying in the
country.”

‘Briscoe’s arrest occurred as a result
of the destruction of 13 planes in July
1982 by saboteurs at Zimbabwe’s main
air base. Briscoe became a member of
the board of inquiry investigating the in-
cident, but was later arrested by the Zim-
babwe Intelligence Organization (ZIO).

“They (police and intelligence offi-
cers) were convinced that sabotage could
only: have been committed by whites,”
Briscoe said. “I was accused of being in
the committee that set up the sabotage,
and was told that I was implicated in the
testimony of others,” he said. He called
the accusations “‘ludicrous:”

Briscoe was put in solitary confine-
ment in a tiny cell as ZIO officers tried to
force a. confession. He was repeatedly

beaten, and subjected to intolerable
(continued on page 4)

DCF with Christianity. The group’s
shortcomings alienated many people
from pursuing the word of Christ, he
added.

The majority of the campus ignored
the group’s ministry, Ivey felt. Most stu-
dents saw DCF as a small cliquish group

Randy Stroud

of students who kept to themselves and
got together to “shoot the bull” about -
Jesus Christ. According to Ivey, this
image was not undeserved, ‘We had be-
come exclusive rather than inclusive —
not purposely but by our focus and prac-
tice.” Thus, he said, DCF had defeated
its purpose.

But the tone of the two speeches was
not pessimistic. Both asked the gathering
to celebrate because they saw it as a
chance for a new beginning.

Whether this means a new organiza-
tion will be formed remains vague. No
definite plans have been made, but
former leaders of DCF will go door to
door seeking student opinion on the Fel-
lowship. They wish to discover the stu-
dents’ religious needs and solicit sugges-
tions on a new type of fellowship.

A new organization could arise out of
the ashes of the old, according to Ivey.
Said former large-group leader Charles
Wiley, “Something will have to take its
place. The people in DCF are in because
they desire Christian Fellowship. But
we're leaving the past behind, period.”

(continued on page 4)

By TED WILSON

Last Wednesday's Vereen Bell
awards ceremony and poetry reading
marked a celebration of the aspiring
and the established in the world of
literary art.

Noted poet Dave Smith, two-time
runner-up for the Pulitzer Prize for
poetry, judged this year’s contest en-
tries and announced the winners in the
ceremony held in the 900 Room.

Junior Lauren Smith won first
place overall. Prizes in poetry went to
junior John James for second place and
senior Elizabeth Smiley for third
place. Prizes in fiction went to seniors
Anne Elliot for second place and to
Earl Wooten for third place. Honora-
ble mention awards went to seniors
‘Lindsey Durway in poetry and Drew
Davis in fiction.

“Poetry writing means more than a
hobby ,”” Lauren Smith said. “It would
thrill me to some day make a living
writing.” However, she said she rec-
ognized the difficulty in becoming a
professional writer.

Smith said she gets her subject
matter “by seeing something, thinking
about it, and relating it to life and to
other things I see.” She added, “I like
to write after reading a series of poems
that are very good.” She wants her au-
dience to feel “the sameness, funda-
mentals; and non-differences in

people” by reading her poetry.

Smith And Van Pelt
Win Writing Awards

Randy Stroud

Lauren Smith

The english department awarded
David Van Pelt first place and Chris
Bretscher second in the R. Windley
Hall Freshman Writing contest.

Van Pelt said his material comes
mostly from “my childhood, from both
the positive and negative [experiences]
that stick out.” He said he is a “specta-
tor,” reacting to other people and the
things that happen to them.

After the ceremony, Dave Smith
read several selections from his books,
which include /n the House of the
Judge, Cumberland Station, Dream
Flights, and Hommage to Edgar Allan

Poe. His poems are filled with imagery
(Continued on page 4)

