THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 6

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, October 19, 1984

Council Finds Student Not Guilty In Open Hearing

Plagiarism Charge Results From
Questions About Term Paper

By DAVID McGEE

The Honor Council last Tuesday, ina
hearing that lasted seven hours, found
sophomore Jeff Kusch not guilty of a
plagiarism charge. Kusch did not admit
guilt to the charge and chose to have an
open hearing before the Honor Council.

Approximately 150 students, facul-
ty, and staff attended the hearing held up-
stairs in Eumenean Hall.

Student solicitors Mark Batten, Mike
Mauzé, and Mike Tantillo called sociol-
ogy Professor Peter Venturelli as their
first witness. Venturelli’s testimony re-
vealed the charge against Kusch resulted
from a paper Kusch wrote last spring in
Venturelli’s Sociology 102 class, “De-
viance and Social Control.” Venturelli
testified that he had suspicions of the as-
signed term paper Kusch turned in last

spring.

ee , ; i
Student solicitors Mark Batten, Mike Tantillo, and Mike Mauzé confer

He said the paper topic differed from
what he and Kusch had discussed in the
third or fourth week of last spring term.
Venturelli said he had expected a paper
on homosexuality from Kusch. Instead,
Kusch turned in a paper May 1S titled
“Government Intervention: A Problem
For Society,” which dealt with how min-
imum wage laws and rent controls affect
social deviance.

Venturelli testified that “the topic
was unfamiliar to me. We hadn’t dis-
cussed that topic. I thought the writing
was different.” Venturelli said the
change in the paper’s topic made him
suspect an honor violation, and later he
felt that the writing style differed from
Kusch’s. With the assistance of
economics Professor Louise Nelson,

Venturelli said he checked the paper's
(continued on page 4)

res

with Honor Council Chairperson Nancy Rosselot

Peggy Pierotti

Dean's Office, Honor Council To
Address Procedure Questions

By ROSS HOLT

Dean of Students Will Terry will
make a proposal next week to put stu-
dents concerns about honor code proce-
dure before the Student Conduct Council
(SCC).

In a similar move, Honor Council de-
fense advisors and student solicitors will
meet with Council Chairperson Nancy
Rosselot next Tuesday to discuss prob-
lems in the Code of Disciplinary Proce-
dures. The problems became apparent
during the period between a spring term
complaint against sophomore Jeff Kusch
and Kusch’s open hearing last Tuesday.

Terry said his proposal would en-
compass a way for students to voice per-
ceived problems stemming from the
hearing to the SCC or the Honor Council.
He said he has not worked out the
mechanics of the proposal yet.

Terry said he has no specific propo-
sals for change himself, but is aware of
increasing student concern over proce-
dures he, the solicitors, and the honor
council use in investigating suspected
honor violations.

“The honor system depends upon the
perceptions of fairness the students have
as a group,” he said. He added he was
“interested in pursuing any changes the
students feel are necessary.”

The SCC is authorized in the Honor
Code by-laws to make recommendations
for changing the Code of Disciplinary
Procedures to the president.

Defense advisors Tim Waples and
Chris Blake also plan to address pro-
cedural questions in their meeting with
Rosselot and solicitors Mark Batten,
Mike Mauzé and Mike Tantillo. Waples

(continued on page 4)

Projyect Match Measures
Student Development

By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson's Project Match, a four
year study designed to examine students’
intellectual development and_ attitudes
toward learning, is nearing completion,
according to Dean of Admissions and Fi-
nancial Aid John Griffith.

Griffith, who wrote the program pro-
posal and serves as its director, said the
collected data is now under evaluation by
a facutly committee, and results should
be ready by next March. “I think there
will be some interesting things to talk
about,” he said. Griffith said he hopes to
present the data at a conference next
summer.

“The purpose of the project has been
to look at how students change internally
in terms of their ability to engage knowl-

edge from the ninth grade through the
senior year in college.” Griffith said
Davidson received a $165,000) grant
from the Foundation for the Improve
ment of Post-Secondary Education to
begin the project, and selected six col
leges and five secondary schools to par
ticipate in the research. Colleges in-
volved in the program consist of Pomone
College, Vassar, Indiana University at
Boone, Queen's College, and Pfieffer
College. Secondary schools include the
North Carolina School of Science and
Mathematics, Westbury School in At-
lanta, Ga., St. Catherine's in Richmond,
Va.. Isidor Newman in New Orleans,
La., and Woodbury Forest in Virginia
For his research here, Griffith tested

(continued on page 3)

Humanities Program Awarded N. E.H. Grant

By TED WILSON

The National Endowment for the
Humanities (NEH) has awarded a
$168,000 grant to Davidson's
Humanities Program.

According to physics Professor
Robert Manning, project director for the
grant, “we're going to use the NEH funds
to make a good program even better. De-
veloping effective writing skills is one of
the most important things an under-
graduate can do. By emphasizing good
writing throughout the curriculum, we
hope to encourage that development.”

Last March, the NEH rejected David-
son’s grant application, because of an in-
adequate description “of some of the pro-
grams that we understood but they

didn’t.” Manning said “we were very en-
couraged [that the NEH] didn’t find any
major faults in the proposal.”

He said the revised plan, submitted
last April, contained no major changes
but was more precise and descriptive.

Manning said the grant will help fi-
nance four major Humanities projects. In
June 1985, Humanities professors will
attend a month-long seminar to discuss
how to approach the material in the re-
vised syllabus and “to learn how to be ac-
tive teachers of composition,” he said.
The program will employ four Davidson
faculty members and two guest experts to
teach the professors how to instruct their
students effectively in writing Composi-
tions.

The second use of the grant, Manning
said, will serve “to pay faculty to design
and teach seminars for juniors and
seniors who have already taken
Humanities and wish to study in more de-
tail what they learned in the program.”
Manning emphasized that the seminars.
taught by a team of current Humanities
instructors and visiting professors, will
take the form of interdisciplinary pro-
jects, which would require approval of
the faculty.

Third, Manning said, the grant will
“leave time for staff members to do inter
disciplinary research.” The fourth plan
will offer release time for faculty, who
desire to be Humanities professors. to
audit the program, he said. The grant will

enable Davidson to hire professors to
teach the classes that the professors drop
in order to audit Humanities

Next spring. as part of the programs
revisions, the second year Humanities
professors “will take the last four weeks
to teach individual seminars on topics of
bach
professor will choose his own topic and
material, and students will select their
discussion leader depending on the tssue
on which they want to focus

The Humanitics
changed this. year’s syllabus. placing

interest to the discussion leader.”

first-year team
more emphasis on theme writing. two
particular art periods instead of a survey
of art, and less emphasis on the history of

(continued on page 3)
