8 Friday, February 3, 1984/The Davidsonian

Street Hockey, Old Men, And Warner Hall

By HUNTER GOURLEY

I knew the Old Men were for real
when Rye barely defeated them in an
IMAC basketball season opener. But
street hockey? I’ve never taken southern
hockey seriously — at least not since the
Flames skipped town and left the burning
of Atlanta to General W.T. Sherman.

Anyway, tthe outdoor b-ball courts
swarmed with semi-intense ball-playing,
sun-worshipping fanatics during last

By STEVE SOUD

When Bobby Hussey arrived at
Davidson in the turbulent spring of
1981, he established several goals.
The first was to provide stability to a
foundering program. The second was
to bring in a better caliber of player.
The final, and most important goal,
was to win the Southern Conference
and gain entrance to the NCAA tourna-
ment.

In his first year, Hussey provided a
measure of stability by leading a team
picked to finish 5-22 to a 14-15 record
and the finals of the SC tournament.
That same spring, he announced the
Signing of an outstanding recruiting
class. He augmented that this year with
some fine players. With the first two
steps of The Plan apparently taken care
of, the third would seem to be forth-
coming. In fact, the final goal is within
the foreseeable future.

This year the Southern Conference
is more balanced than ever. Witness
Western Carolina defeating nationally
recognized UT-C and then losing to

week’s late January heat wave. That is,
until some joker rolled a little, round ball
— puck? — onto the court and stopped a
team’s fastbreak. Then all hell broke
loose: a hockey match was scheduled for
play on that hot, January afternoon. It
was a bad week for snow skiing.

Two hockey matches deserve men-
tion, largely because they were not for-
feiturés. The Sponges, led by hard-flick-
ing Tim “Gretz” McGaughey, iced an
easy victory over the Nuns of Destruc-

From The Locker Room

Hussey’s Three Goals

ah infamous VMI in a matter of
days. A first-division finish is within
Davidson’s reach. Part of The Plan is
the crucial five-game homestand that
will begin Feb. 16 with Appalachian
State and end on the 27th with Western
Carolina. Part One works in direct
conjunction with Part Two.

Part Two revolves around the mat-
uration of a young team. Across the
past several games sophomores Pepper
Bego, Gerry Born, and Jim McConkey
have begun to assert themselves. No.
longer is Kenny Wilson the lone scor-
ing threat, although he remains the
most potent. Moreover, freshman
Chris Heineman has entrenched him-
self at the point guard position. This
provides a solid, youthful foundation
for years to come.

Part Three was announced a couple
of weeks ago: Davidson has at last
signed a “blue-chipper.” Terry Rupp
hails from Tampa Florida, where, at
Jesuit High School he is averaging 36
ppg and 14.7 rpg. He was All-Florida
as a junior and Street & Smith Honora-
ble Mention All-America. In addition,

tion, 11-1. In other league play, Wally
Worlders took Eddie Shore to the nets in
a 10-3 contest.
Basketball

Meanwhile, inside Johnston Gym,
the Old Men bounced back from one of
their truly deserved losses — to the
talented 'Breeze, 60-46 — and beat
Champagne Jam by 10 points, 56-46.
Codgers’ Krentz, Kazee, and» Slagle
combined for 30 points.

Charlie’s Chaps edged Pony Express

Rupp will likely be a pro baseball draft
choice in the spring draft choice in the
spring. (Rupp will also play baseball
for the Wildcats.)

This is not to advise buying tickets
to see Davidson in the NCAAs in
Charlotte. Rather, it -points out that
some progress is being made in the
overall machinations of Davidson bas-
ketball. But several bugs are yet to be
worked out: the team must start to do
consistently the things winning teams

- do in close games; there needs to be

better definition of player roles: the
team must establish itself early in the
game instead of having to play 38-40
minutes of catch-up; the team must
take advantage of potential blowout
situations. But these are matters easily
worked out.

The Southern Conference season is
still young: there remain 9 games in
this regular season (and many more in
seasons to come). Hussey and his as-
sistants have established a strong foun-
dation with which to work. The rest re-
mains for the future. Enjoy it, under-
classmen.

Wrestlers Now 4-4

By KERRY BROWN

Vince Arduini’s description of his
1984 wrestling squad could easily be
mistaken as a description of Arthur and
the knights of the Round Table. Unlike
the knights from Camelot, Arduini and
his “goal-oriented” grapplers aren't
searching for the Holy Grail. Instead, the
Wildcat grapplers’ quest is for a winning
season, and winning is certainly what the
Cats have been doing.

Davidson recently slew North
Carolina A & T and Furman in a tri-
match, and the young talented group

moved one step closer to their season...

goal by improving their record to 4-4.
With this behind them, Arduini and his
fighting grapplers shall have to win four
of their remaining seven matches to at-
tain their winnning season goal, and as
Arduini says, “the future is promising.”

The Wildcats needed a bit of charity
to defeat North Carolina A & T as Mike
Adams and Tom Cardwell won by for-
feit, and improved their individual re-
cords to 8-5 and 4-8-1. While John Lay,
who earlier won first place in the 142-
pound category of the Washington and

Lee Tournament corralled Glover Ford
and captured a 7-1 victory. John
Breidenstine gained a victory by disqual-
ification, and Tom Hissam, who was
voted Most Valuable Player in the
Washington & Lee Tournament, ended
Willie Woodall’s bid to give North
Carolina A & T a possible victory by pin-
ning Woodall in 6:38. But the duel be-
tween Arduini’s grapplers and North
Carolina A & T wasn’t determined on the
battlefield of the mat. Instead, the King’s
men gained a victory because of the de-
duction of a point due to misconduct.

After the Cats barely deteated a tough
North Carolina A’& T squad they found
themselves faced with the challenge of:
dispéing of the Furman Paladins.
Though Mike Adams and Tom Cardwell
lost by decision, the grapplers seemed to
have a we-can’t-lose attitude, and John
Lay, Tom Hissam, and Brian Rice pin-
ned their opponents for key victories.
Taylor Simpson, John Breidenstine, and
Mike Keeley gained victories by forfei-
ture.

°

The Davidsonian will print free valentine
messages next week. Please leave all
submissions at the Union desk.

by four points in a low scoring game, 38-
34. The KA’s ’Court continued to reign
supreme — regrouping after a bitter
Saturday night loss — first by beating the
Williams-Brandon led Hard to Swallow,
55-50; then revenging themselves upon
the Delts, in an'unmerciful 82-36 slaugh-
ter.

B-League play produced a handful of
close, hard-fought games. Mooresville
Walkers, the Stiffs, Starcade, and
Woody’s Peckers all earned victories
against evely matched opponents. No
game was won by more than a seven-
point margin. Noteworthy scoring ef-
forts were performed by Matt Merrell
who hit for 17 points for the losing
Fiends, Starcade’s Dave Flowers with 21
points, Jay Poag’s 13 baskets in a Force
smear over the Accidents, and finally
Tyler Long’s 25-point game for the los-
ing 69’ ers.

It being Celebrate Women Week,
I’ve saved the best for last. Warner Hall
continues to dominate Women’s League
play. They remain undefeated. Leading
scorers Becca Bates, Annie Porges, and
Shelly Lineberger have combined to out-

.score their opponents by an average 2-1

margin in almost every game. The Hall
defeated Sisters, Inc. 28-12, the Lusters
64-16, and the Mothers 26-11.

Rusk, the other league powerhouse,
trounced Fourth Little by 43 points with
Jan Withers hailing 21 of her team’s 57
total points. There were some close
games, too. Rusk’s Lustets squeaked out _
a one-point victory over the Mothers.
Rusk battled head-to-head with the Sis-
ters, finally pulling out to win at the buz-
zer, 27-23. Twice as Nice, fearing a pos-
ible Luster winstreak — or back-to-back
victories — took it upon themselves to
stop the streak. Nice, led by Tricia Ives’s
12 points, beat the almost cocky Lusters,
24-17.

gineering ~

of Business

or need.

Graduate Study in

Public Policy

The LBJ School of Public Affairs at-The University of
Texas at Austin emphasizes public policy analysis, inter-
disciplinary research and summer internships in govern-
ment agencies in its graduate programs:

— Master's Degree in Public Affairs
. — Joint Degrees Program with the UT Law School
— Joint Degrees Program with the UT College of En-

— Joint Degrees Program with the UT G raduate School

Financial aid and fellowships are available based on merit

MEET WITHEA REPRESENTATIVE AT:
The Davidson College Careers Office

February 8, 1984
9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.

