Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

~Miusic

By STEVE MANK

The music of Hunters and Collec-
tors is the stuff nightmares are made
of. Winding, cacophonous, biting
melodies that seem almost to accuse
the listener of some heinous crime de-
fine their self-titled debut LP.

The mood of the album is one of
delightful terror — if this is a bad
dream, it’s so fascinatingly horrific
you don’t want to wake up.

A strong, funky drum beat under-
lies all tracks on the disc. The mocking
rhythm tries to tease the listener into
dancing to songs that should not be
danced to.

The first track, “Tow Truck,” fea-
tures a delicate, playful guitar per-
forming strange antics before a lush
background of bass and strings. The
anonymous vocals (there is no mention
of any group members anywhere on
the album) sound commanding yet suf-
fering. As the song reaches a cres-
cendo, it opens up to reveal a powerful
orchestra of horns and strings only to
cut off faster than it began.

Elsewhere on the album, slide
guitar — obviously played by some
wayward blues master — is featured
along with rare African drums, de-
vouring bass. and sparing synthesiz-
ers.

‘“Mouthtrap,” perhaps the most/
least appealing track on the album,
highlights frightening images and des-
pairingly inaccessible lyrics that sing
about some kind of tragic flaw we have
without saying what it could be. The
worst part of the song is the way it

Hunters Collect Nightmares

fools you into reclining trustingly into
its lulling, caressing vocals only to
stab you with lines like, “With our
blood cuddles and backyard kisses /
Upon this two-backed beast nothing
misses.” I don’t have any idea what
that means either, but it can’t be good.

The lyrics at first seem terribe, but
they’re so deliberate and elusive that it
soon becomes obvious that any in-
adequacies are on the listener’s part.

The entire .LP is out for effect. The
front cover features barely focused
fangs slightly obscured by the shadow
of a picket fence while the other side
shows a bizarre collage of drawings,
photographs, and childhood trinkets.
The lyric sheet within has one more
song than the disc has. The exclusion
of that song, no stranger than the rest,
is an enigma unto itself.

Hunters and Collectors is a good
album, but it’s always safer to buy
something easy like the Stones than
something that could very easily send
you a little haywire. . .

~ Quick Pan

It’s really a shame to see an incred-
ible blues/rock guitarist like Ted Nu-
gent waste all his talent on himself. His
new album Penetration features amaz-
ing manipulation of barely controlled
guitars and amplifiers, but the
musicianship does nothing to rectify
the idiotic composisitions and annoy-
ing vocals. The new album does not
leave you wishing there were no Ted
Nugent, but rather that there were
another Amboy Dukes on which his
talent could be well spent.

ime mA

SRT ST
q
\
a“
t

SUCH A

Wwe HAVE Ab

DEAL

The Greatest Selection of
Valentines Anywhere...

and Marvelous Gifts! ,
Heart Boxes - Sachets +
Pomanders - Brass -
Crystal - Porcelain -
Sweet and Elegant
Reminders of the Season! g

110 S. MAIN’ST. DAVIDSON, N.C.

VORA 9 FISPIRASLIAARY

Fine Film Features Altman’s

By CRAIG DETWEILER
McCabe and Mrs. Miller (/97/) Di-
rected by Robert Altman. Starring War-
ren Beatty, Julie Christie, Rene Auber-
jonois, and Shelley Duvall. ***

Ever wonder why film critics devote
so much of their reviews to the ideas and
techniques of directors? Think it’s be-
cause critics like funny camera angles?
Perhaps they secretly desire to be direc-
tors? No, the emphasis upon the direc-
tor’s influence stems from the auteur
theory of film. From the French word for
author, auteur applies when critics
equate directors with the authorship of
the movie, placing his individual stamp
upon his work of art. While this theory
has grown into great overuse, it can accu-
rately be applied to the work of Robert
Altman. McCabe and Mrs. Miller dis-
plays the creative touches that dominate
Altman’s films.

Finally launching a career that began
with “B” movies and TV productions,
Robert Altman previewed his tremend-
ous work throughout the past decade
with the appearance of M*A*S*H in
1970. The boisterous antics of those
wacko doctors cannot be found in
McCabe. One will find the same murky

James Bond Ss Back

By MATT MORRIS
Goldfinger. Directed by Guy Hamil-
ton. Starring Sean Connery. Rating: ***
1/2.
Live and Let Die. Directed by Guy
Hamilton. Starring Roger Moore. Rat-
ing ***.

007 returns to Davidson, this time in
a double feature format. The two films,
Goldfinger, and Live and Let Die, show
both Sean Connery and Roger Moore at
the height of their powers as Ian Flem-
ing’s suave, ever-so-chauvinistic (good
thing they didn’t show these during
Women’s Week!) secret agent.

Produced at the height of Bond
mania, 1964’s Goldfinger is arguably the
best entry in the entire series. Richard
Maibum’s clever script actually im-
proves on the book, and Sean Connery’s
sassy Scottish touch results in a fine
Bond epic. But there’s more: director
Guy Hamilton keeps things at a nice clip,
and the movie flies by like a bullet. He
never steps too far into the plot to tet the
audience forget that this is a comic book.

As Goldfinger, Gert Frohe is truly
menacing, and his sidekick, the evil, hat-
throwing Odd Job is a formidable Bond
villain in the movie serial tradition. The
ladies are unusually stunning in this out-
ing as well, and the overall feeling is
warm, even humanistic — surprising for
most films, especially a Bond flick. The
star of the film, however, is Fort Knox.
A complete replica designed by Bond
veteran Ken Adam, it supplies the back-
ground for a truly hair-raising climax.
Don’t miss this one.

Live and Let Die
If Live and Let Die’s plot seems to be

multi-layered soundtrack, quirky, fresh
supporting cast, and rich building of re-
lationships between characters, though.
The abundant box-office receipts of M*
A*S*H enabled Altman to estabish his
own independent production company,
Lion’s Gate Films. With total direction
and production control, Altman’s free to
develop his minor tale about the two title
characters. The plot revolves around
John McCabe’s efforts to establish the
town of Presbyterian Church. A small-

time gamesman who has illusions of

gunslinging grandeur, McCabe enlists
the help of a madam, Mrs. Miller, to stir
up commerce and tourism in his new set-
tlement. Just as McCabe’s business ven-
ture takes off financially, a mining cor-
poration “offers” to take Presbyterian
Church out of his hands. The dramatic
tension of the film focuses upon
McCabe’s personal battle with the min-
ing company. Altman’s vision derives its
power from the unversality of the central
struggle, which can be generalized to the
many current battles of the little guy ver-
sus the devouring conglomerates.
Altman’s directorial expertise ap-
pears in the hazy hue in the interior
photography, the gentle, laid-back pace,
and the freedom granted to the excellent
ensemble. McCabe’s interior scenes fea-

Agent 007 as Sean Connery

a mere excuse for car and boat chases,
never mind, because they are some of the
most exhilarating ever filmed. (In fact,
there’s a motorboat jump during the film
that is now in the Guiness Book of World
Records.) As far as Bond pics go this is
standard yet satisfying fare. Roger
Moore, less prissy than usual, seems to
have fun in this, his first 007 endeavor,
and Jane Seymour is quite alluring as
Solitaire. The real star here, aside from
the action, is Geoffrey Holder as Baron
Samedi — his every move is like a
menacing octopus, and his final appear-
ance is a nice touch. Also, Paul
McCartney & Wings’ heavy metal title
song explodes and gives the film an
edge. If you're at all tolerant, see Live
and Let Die.

Creativity.

ture a dim, brown glow that gives the
film an old western atmosphere. The
smoke-filled rooms jibe perfectly with
the relaxed, slow life-style that the
town’s citizens practice. Warren Beatty
and Julie Christie lead a typically unique
Altman cast. With a dynamic relation-
ship that balances business and love,
Beatty and Christie establish their status
as a couple which later clicked in Heaven
Can Wait and Shampoo. Altman em-
ploys the usual brilliant assortment of
supporting players from his Lion’s Gate
Company. Shelley Duvall’s _ perfor-
mance hints at the screen persona she has
come to develop since. Overall, the out-
standing individual components, given
direction under Altman’s meticulous
care, combine for a pleasurable, intrigu-
ing film. What appears to be a slow, eve-
ntless western culminates in a humorous/
horrible final scene that fades to an image
that will stay with the viewer for many
years to come.

Do not expect to see another satirical
farce like M*A*S*H. Instead. go to
McCabe and Mrs. Miller to witness an
important cog in a director's checkered
career, an intelligent, entertaining period
piece, and a challenging commentary
upon America’s devoursome economic
system.
