Wednesday, December 12, 1984/The Davidsonian

By STEVE BYERS

State may be good, but who knows?
‘The Wolfpack .hasn’t exactly chal-
lenged itself so far; compare their non-
conference schedule with Louis-
ville’s . . . Georgetown looks awe-
some, but I still want to see an oppo-
nent run a disciplined offense against
the Hoyas, which excludes DePaul,
UNLV and Houston . . . Expanding
the NCAA Tournament to 64 teams
virtually renders the regular season
meaningless . . .

Here is my “pre-season” All-
America team: Patrick Ewing,
Dwayne “the’ Pearl” Washington,
Chris Mullin, Wayman Tisdale, Keith
Lee . . . Now for my All-ACC squad:
Lorenzo Charles, Len Bias, Johnny
Dawkins, Kenny Smith, Mark Alarie/
Adrian Branch (tie).

Second, pro basketball: Michael .
Jordan. What else can you say?

Third, pro football: Miami has
looked very vulnerable recently,
which might open the door for Seat-
tle, Denver or L.A. in the AFC
playoffs. Here’s my opinion: if the
Seahawks can gain the home field ad-
vantage for the playoffs, they will go
to the Super Bowl. If not, I predict
another Raiders-Dolphins clash in the .
Orange Bowl, this time for the AFC
Championship. Should that happen, I
couldn’t bet against L.A., no matter
how good Dan Marino is.

In the NFC, the only sure thing is
that San Francisco will enjoy the home

First, college basketball: Sure, NC ~

Of Basketball And Holiday Bowl Games

field advantage all the way up to and
including the Super Bowl (this time in
Palo Alto, California). So who can de-
rail the 49’ers? The Bears? No. The

‘Rams? Wrong. Anybody in the NFC

East? Probably not, though
Washington has the best chance of
stopping San Francisco somewhere
along the line. I’ve got to go with the
49’ers however — they’ re peaking at
just the right time.

Okay, okay, let’s get to the good
stuff. Let’s analyze the-college foot-
ball bowl picture. And barring some-
thing unforseen, New Year's Day
could prove to be a new low in pigskin
excitement. Unless BYU fails to show
for the Holiday Bowl, the age-old
question of “Who’s Number One?”
will have already been decided come
January 1. But there could be some
good games.

Holiday: BYU vs. Michigan. Po-
tentially the biggest mismatch of the
season. The Wolverines are terrible
and didn’t even deserve a bowl! bid.
BYU, of course, is ranked No. | after
playing a very weak schedule. But the
Cougars can throw the football with
the best of ’em, and quarterback Rob-
bie Bosco may be better than the guy
he replaced — Steve Young. The pres-
sure is on BYU to win and win big.
Rumor has it that anything other than a
rout might persuade some pollsters to
look for a new mythical national cham-
pion.

Gator: A great matchup between
two frustrated teams, Oklahoma State

and South Carolina. Both teams had
their sights set on the Orange Bowl,
but Oklahoma’ turned away thé Cow-
boys in 4 showdown. Meanwhile, the
Gamecocks were caught looking past
Navy to the Clemson game and paid
for it with their only loss of the year.
Both squads possess wide-open, high-
scoring offenses and better-than-aver-
age defenses. This one should be fun to
watch. .

Cotton: Houston finally stumbled
and staggered its way in as the SWC
representative, thanks to Texas’s late-
season gag. Houston’s opponent is
Doug Flutie (who quarterbacks for
Boston College). And that’s a mis-
match. Houston is a solid team, but
Flutie is the most exciting player in
college football today’ The Cougar de-
fense won't stop BC’s offense, but
then again neither will BC’s defense
shut down Houston’s running attack.
Another high-scoring game.

Fiesta: No one will be watching
Miami and UCLA square off (Flutie’s
on at the same time on CBS) and that’s
too bad. Sports Illustrated picked the
Bruins to win it all this season, but they
never really got out of the starting
blocks. Meanwhile, sophomore quar-
terback Bernie Kosar, who should
break most of Flutie's records before
he graduates, has directed the Hur-

‘ ficanes to 85 points in their last two

games. Unfortunately, Miami’s de-
fense has allowed 89 points. If UCLA
plays to its capabilities, guess what?
Another high-scoring affair.

Rose: Who cares? Southern Cal
defeated Washington to get here, then
proceeded to lose to both UCLA and
Notre Dame. Ohio State beat arch-
rival Michigan (barely) to get here. If
you must, watch for Buckeye junior
tailback Keith Byars. He’s tough and
has a good shot at the: Heisman next-
yéar. Otherwise, take a siesta after the
Cotton and Fiesta.

Sugar: Nebraska wanted an
Orange Bowl berth (doesn’t every-
body?), but came up short against Ok-
lahoma and wound up here. The host _
team, literally, is LSU. Say what?
That's right — after the SEC refused to
allow Florida to accept the Sugar Bow!
bid (cheaters never prosper, folks),
Auburn said thank you and then fum-
bled the gift, losing 17-15 to
Alabama. Which means LSU, the
third best team in the conference, goes
bowling for dollars in New Orleans, to
face the third best team in the Big
Eight. A classic confrontation.

Orange: Everyone wanted to end
up in Miami, but only Oklahoma and
Washington did. I think the Sooners
are the best team in the country (sorry,
BYU and Florida), and if they can win
big, who knows? Washington will
have one heck of a time trying to move
the ball on OU’s defense, while the
Huskies will be hard-pressed to neut-
ralize the Sooners's powerful
wishbone offense. Still, Washington
wants to prove it’s for real, so here's
hoping the halftime show does not up-

stage the football game.

ROTC

ATTENTION

PREMED MAJORS
NEED FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE?

olarship.

The Air Force needs doctors. So, we may help
finance your college education with an Air Force
ROTC sch
We have three and two-year AFROTC PreHealth Profes-
sions Scholarships for qualified applicants. These scholarships

pay full tuition, lab and incidental fees, books, plus $100 a month (tax
free) during the school year. Upon completion of Air Force ROTC and bac-
calaureate degree requirements, you'll be commissioned as an Air Force second
lieutenant. When accepted to medical school, additional assistance for medical
school expenses is guaranteed with an Armed Forces Health Pro-
fessions Scholarship.
Get together with an Air Force ROTC representative and
discuss these two programs. It may be the most import-

ant talk you’ve ever had about your future.

Gateway to a great way of life.

CONTACT: Captain Bill Woods, Airforce Rotc
at UNCC. 597-2711 or 597-4537
