Friday, January 20, 1984/The Davidsonian

~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Winter Workshops Challenge Student Directors

By JOHN GATHINGS
and SUZONNE DICKEY

The roar of the greasepaint and the
smell of the crowd live on in the hearts of
eight ambitious Davidson students who
are this year’s drama workshop direc-
tors.

“I have always wanted to direct a
play, because I always thought I knew
more than my directors,” senior Jeff
Mann said. “The workshop play will
give me a chance to prove that I am
wrong,” he added.

Junior Roxanna Guilford sees work-
shops “‘as a way to relax.” Although she
admits it is a lot of work, she said, “It’s a
wonderful creative exercise.” She
added, “It’s great to have a class that I to-
tally like.”

The students working as directors
have studied directing theory for a term
and have chosen a play which fits the
workshop program in terms of length,
cost, set, and sometimes, subject matter.
After choosing a play, the director-to-be
researches the play and the playwright;
makes decisions about style, lighting,
set, sound and costume; blocks the play;
and finally casts it.

“I spent all Christmas break blocking
the play ,” Guilford said. She emphasized
the importance of thoroughly planning
the blocking ahead of time. “Once re-
hearsals start, you see what works, what
doesn’t, where the trouble spots are, and
you concentrate on correcting them,” she
said.

Senior Karen Baldwin reiterated this
point. “You have to research the play and
its author to understand how you should
interpret the play,” she said.

Once a play is chosen and re-
searched, the director holds auditions to
choose his cast. Theatre professor Rupert
Barber said 75 percent of the director’s
work is complete when the play has been
cast. Casting is “real tough,” according
to Mann. “Everybody who tried out
could have done well. It was hardest to
choose who not to cast. The important
thing in casting is choosing who looks,
reacts, and plays off each other better.
One stellar performer by himself is not
very good,” he said.
ork wit with people.” Because an actor re-
veals his personality before an audience,
Baldwin believes the actor-director re-
lationship demands special attention.
“An actor has a very fragile personality,
whether they are a strong person or not.
You have to consider this when you are
working with the actor.”

Guilford feels this relationship is
especially important in the workshops,
because the student director works with
his or her peers. “When you are dealing
with your friends you need to work hard
to keep the director-actor relationship,”
she said. ““You need some sort of hierar-
chy in order for it to work.”

In addition to the research necessary,

_Wearhaue to ie he ahleta .

2 ye 4 Ow

special problems occur in doing work-
shops that a director of another kind of
production would not usually encounter.
“It’s so close to the audience, it’s a
strange feeling,” Baldwin said. Because
of this, Guliford said her actors ‘‘need to
worry about concentration.” Baldwin ex-
pressed a similar concern, but she be-
lieves it is good because “it gives the
actor a different experience.”

The different stage settings as well as
the proximity to the audience present a
problem. Baldwin’s stage setting is
“thrust,” a term which means the audi-
ence surrounds the stage on three sides.
Guilford’s play is “in the round,” where
the audience sits in a circle around the
stage. According to Guilford it was “dif-
ficult to block the play with the actors
facing the audience without having them
turn in circles.”

A bit of general anxiety also accom-
panies the director’s duties. “Anything
could go wrong,” Guilford said. ‘I’m al-
ways conscious of that. But the directing

class prepared me for a lot of the things
I’ve encountered.”

Experimentation is possible in the
workshops. “I’m doing strange things
with costumes and lights,” Mann said.
“If you tried some of these things on a
bigger stage, the audience would never
catch it,” he added.

The workshop experience provides
benefits which offset the problems.
Baldwin feels strongly about this. “It’s
good for students who just enjoy doing
theatre. It teaches you how to deal with
others, and it also helps your acting. You
appreciate more of what goes on behind
the scenes when you attend another play.
So instead of saying, ‘Oh, the actors are
doing a great job,’ you appreciate the be-
hind-the-scenes work.”

Baldwin, unlike most of the work-
shop directors, has career interests in
mind. “I need more experience in direct-
ing, although my main interest is de-
sign.” She directed the workshop play
“Where Have All the Butterflies Gone”

last year as part of the class, and this year
she is directing “Live Spelled Back-
wards” as an extracurricular project.
Nonetheless, she said, “the amount of
time spent is equal to a fourth class.”

Once all the preliminaries are taken
care of and the 14 days of rehearsal draw
to a close, the set is constructed. The di-
rector of the play works with drama pro-
fessor Joe Gardner to design the set. The
plans are then turned over to the students
of Theatre 121 who build the set, locate
props, design the lighting, costume the
actors, work on sound, and do publicity
for the show.

The true test of all this hard work
comes on opening night, when the direc-
tor goes behind the scenes and turns the
whole thing over to the actors. How well
they do will reflect the director’s organi-
zation and hard work. In anticipating the
actual performance Guilford said, “I’m
cautiously optimistic. | have confidence
in the fact that I’m working with a really
good group of people.”

Thymus Vulgaris, Alligator Man Critiqued

By TOM PAFFORD
Last night the winter series of one-act
plays began with Thymus Vulgaris by
Lanford Wilson (directed by Jenny
Cooper) and Alligator Man by Jack Kap-
lan (directed by Suzonne Dickey).

Thymus
Vulgaris
involves
an afternoon reunion between a mother,
Ruby Bentley and her daughter, Evelyn.

COMMENTARY

.They have not seen each other for a

couple of years, but on this afternoon
Evelyn has plans to be married to a man
named Sol, an important grapefruit
grower. Evelyn had sent a letter to her
mother explaining all of this, but of
course Ruby had not read it, and she is
not ready when Evelyn comes by to take
her to Hollywood for the event. As Ruby
gets ready, they fall to talking. As the
conversation inevitably brings out
Ruby’s memories of her past marriages
and pains, it inevitably wears down Eve-
lyn’s hope that her love and marriage will

fallen thennabe They never |ppy Raub. -

trailer, and the | light on them eventually
fades out.

Lisa Brawley — who plays Ruby —
and Heather Jameson — who plays Eve-
lyn — both do excellent jobs portraying
the tentativeness and submissiveness of
their characters. The symbols of the
thyme overgrowing Ruby’s trailer and
Sol, the name of Evelyn’s fiancé, help
elucidate the forces acting on these char-
acters. But aside from the realism re-
quired, the characters acknowledge that
their lives are on display before the audi-
ence. In this play, the convention of the
actors directly addressing the audience
works well, though it gets heavy-handed
at the end. Jameson does pretty well with

the difficult final speeches to the audi-
ence. Her character seems to have made
realizations through the play that justify
her philosophizing at the end.

In the second play, Alligator Man,
everyone is almost too well accounted in
this allegory about a Louisiana alligator
poacher, Telesphonte Boosard. The al-
ligators are played by blacks. Just with
that information, you can pretty well
guess the outcome of this play. Boosard,
the infamous Alligator Man, kills an al-
ligator named Alligator Girl, and her
husband, Gruesome Gator, takes re-
venge by poaching the Alligator Man.
Gruesome comes on at the end, offering
his albino-alligator skin wares and tout-
ing himself as the new Alligator Man.

Mark Wright gives an excellent per-
formance as Boosard. He brings out the
decadent, self-satisfied pride of a bayou

poacher who eludes the law. He stays ig-
norant to the end. William Bynum gives
a good parallel performance that brings
out the wisdom of one who has been sup-
posed a stupid alligator all his life. But all
of this is predictable. Georgianna,
played by Anne Goodwin, adds the vari-
ation as the white woman who has been
suppressed by ignorant female roles cut
from the same cloth as the manly pride
worn by Broosard. She goes into the dark
swamp with Gruesome, finding her
female and her alligator selves with
Gruesome.

Even though Anne Goodwin handles
this part well, she alone can’t make this
story another Heart of Darkness. Though
there are very funny parts, the play didn’t
move fast enough to float on its humor.
Maybe the director should have reversed
the colors of the alligators and people.

Hilarious French hijinks come to Davidson tonight with La Cage aux Folles.
Sure it has subtitles, but at least it’s not Fellini. Shows are at8 and 10:30 p.m. in
Love Auditorium. $1.50.

