Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian 9

SPORTS

ASU’s Last-Second Shot Sinks Wildcats 55-53

By STEVE BYERS
By ANDY BARRON
This was a game ESPN would have
loved — close, exciting, and coming

down to a last-second shot. Two evenly
matched teams, Davidson and Appalac-
hian State, fought for position in the
Southern Conference. Unfortunately for
the Cats last Saturday night in Boone, the
last-second shot belonged to Appalac-
hian’s Glenn Clyburn, and he drilled it,
giving ASU a 55-53 victory. The Cats
dropped to 7-12, 3-5 with the loss.

Davidson was paced by senior Kenny
Wilson’s 19 points and sophomore Pep-
per Bego’s 13 points, which included
three three-point field goals. Freshman
Chris Heineman, forced to play the full
40 minutes with sickness on the team and
Caryl Dawson’s departure, came
through with nine points and five assists.
Compare the play of the forwards on both
teams: Appalachian got 25 points and
eight rebounds from that position, while
the Cats got only 12 points and just three
rebounds from sophomores Gerry Born
and Jim McConkey.

Obviously Davidson cannot expect to
win with such little production from its
big men, especially if Wilson gets in
early foul trouble, as he did Saturday
night. The good news, though, is that the
Cats almost pulled it off without effec-
tive inside play. Davidson held the ball
for the last shot, but Heineman was trap-
ped in the corner with seven seconds left.
The Cats could not get off a good shot,
and Appalachian had one more chance.
So Davidson lost this game almost
exactly as it won one here two years ago.

Some observations after. two-thirds
of the season. . . Marshall is the team to
beat in the SC this year, not UTC. Kenny
Wilson should be a shoe-in on the AIll-
Conference team and has an outside shot
for Player-of-the-Year honors, though
Marshall’s LaVerne Evans has the inside
track right now. Davidson needs to beat
VMI again to insure ‘itself a place in the
conference tournament. The Cats control
their own destiny, finishing the regular
season with five consecutive games at
Johnston Gym.

Inconsistency has been the downfall
for the Cats to this point, and unless they

Women’s Basketball Continues To Improve

By STEVE SOUD

In a season marked by what have
been called “private victories” and
deeper levels of “winning,” the David-
son women’s basketball team this week
came closer to very public victories
against Greensboro College and Coker
College. Although the team record
dropped to 0-18, the steady improvement
that has characterized their entire season
was in oustanding display on Tuesday
and Wednesday.

‘a snot-poppionied game against

can rectify theis, they are destined to be a
sub-.500 club. Games at Johnston Gym
make all the difference — there is more
of a home-court feeling and a rowdier at-
mosphere than in Charlotte. It makes you
wish that we played UNCC, Notre
Dame, or Duke here instead of the Col-
iseum.

A basketball team’s worst enemies.
fouls and turnovers, plagued the
Wildcats in their Monday night loss to
Western Carolina, 76-71.

The loss occurred despite a fine sec-
ond half rally in which Davidson cut
Western’s lead from 17 with about 11
minutes remaining to as little as four with
a minute to go.

The Cats fell behind in the first half,
committing 12 tumovers to Western’s
five. Down the stretch, when it looked
like Davidson might pull off a miracle
finish, turnovers and the fouling by three
of the Cats’ starters were too much to
overcome.

Greensboro resulted in a 58-77 loss in
Johnston Gym on Tuesday. Sophomore

point guard Amy Hartman stole the show
as she fired in 23 points (10-18 FG, 3-3 .
FT), and grabbed six rebounds.
Freshman Woodie Cornelson and senior
Debbie Hayes chipped in 15 and eight
points each. Hartman, who logged all 40
minutes, explained, “It was the first
game that we brought everything to-
gether. We played with constant inten-
sity throughout the whole game instead
of in little spurts.”

The Lady Cats, who achieved-a team. .

The loss put the Cats at 3-6 in the
Southern Conference and 7-13 overall.
Western Carolina is now 6-4 and 11-9.
Kenny Wilson once again led the David-
son scoring with 23 points. Pepper Bego
added 22 points and hit four three-point
goals. Western was led by guards Quen-
tin Moore and Quinton Lytle, who had
27 and 20 points, respectively.

Davidson grabbed the early lead on a
Bego jump shot. However, a three-point
play by Pat Sharp put Western ahead to
stay only four minutes into the game.
Western led by 14 when Moore hit a

Gerry Born shoots for the Wildcats

three-point goal with six minutes remain-
ing in the first half.

Wilson led a Cat rally in the first half.
Taking a court-length pass from Gerry
Born, Wilson drove to the hoop and was
fouled as he slammed the ball in the bas-

goal of committing only 15 turnovers in
the game, closed the gap to 13 points
with 10 minutes left, but Greensboro fal-
tered no more.

Wednesday night, before a raucous,
supportive crowd, the women played
their closest and best game to date — a
57-69 loss to Coker. In the earlier match
in Hartsville, SC, the team lost by 30
points. But news of an injury to the start-
ing Cobra center heartened the already-
hopeful Wildcats.

After an exciting half of basketball,.

Rocky Kmiecik

Davidson took‘a 33-30.halftime lead, ‘its -

ket. After Wilson made the free throw,
Davidson trailed by only seven. How-
ever, the Cats were unable to keep the

_momentum and trailed at the half by 12.

The two teams exchanged baskets
early in the second half. During this ex-
change, Moore hit his 53rd_ three-
pointer, breaking the Southern Confer-
ence record for three-point field goals in
a career. Moore hit one more three-
pointer, giving Western its largest lead of
the game, 62-45, and making Moore's
record 54 three-point goals.

Three-point goals by Bego and Chris
Heineman brought the Cats charging
back. The rally received two major
blows when Born and Heineman fouled
out with 4:30 and 3:15 to go, respec-
tively. However, Bego’s long-range
gunning and Wilson’s inspired inside
play kept the rally moving.

Wilson hit a turnaround jumper on
the right side of the lane, and the Cats
were down by only four with 1:28 to go.
Then the game went wild. Davidson
stole the ball only to have Western get it
back and hit two free throws when Tom
Franz was called for a deliberate foul.
Moore made both shots for Western and
Davidson was down by six with a minute
to go. Franz quickly drove the ball down
the court, hit a shot, and the Cats called
time out. Davidson’s hopes, though,
were dashed by turnoves and Western
Carolina’s free throw shooting. Free
throws built the lead back to eight. A
three-pointer by Bego cut the final mar-
gin to five.

The game was a case of Davidson
digging a hole too deep to escape from.
The Cats did show real tenacity in their
late game rally. However, it was too lit:
tle, too late. Except for a fine effort by
Bego, Wilson was forced to carry the
team once again. The Cats need Born and
McConkey to bounce back and play as
they did against Notre Dame if they are
going to receive a respectable seeding in
the post-season Conference tournament.

Saturday night the Cats travel to Hun-
tington to play Marshall, and on Monday
night they will be at V.M.I. Then David-
son returns home for good, playing their
remaining five regular season games at
home.

first halftime lead; nay, even its first lead
after the first two minutes of play this
season. ,A Cobra scoring spurt lifted
them to a three-point lead with 15 mi-
nutes left, but Davidson applied constant
pressure. The Lady Cats forced several
turnovers, but Coker played equally stiff
defense. When Davidson started fouling
with about 5:00 remaining, the Cobras
reversed a first half trend by hitting most
of their free throws.

Hartman had 19 points in another 40-
minute effort, and the team kept the tur-
nover count down to 15.
