2

Friday, September 14, 1984/The Davidsonian

Davidson Listed In Guide To Top Schools

(Communications) — Davidson has been named one of the top colleges in
the country by “Rugg’s Recommendations on the Colleges.”

’ Of the nation’s 1,400 four-year colleges and universities, 336 were chosen
for inclusion in this volume on the basis of their high academic quality.

Published every other year, the guide ranks the top schools in each of 39 dif-
ferent fields of study. Davidson’s chemistry, English, history, mathematics,
philosophy and religion departments were cited in the top category (“‘most selec-
tive”) among American colleges and universities. Rankings are based on inter-
views with undergraduate students at each listed institution.

The handbook was written by Frederick E. Rugg, a graduate of Brown Uni-
versity, who holds advanced degrees in secondary guidance and educaitonal ad-
ministration from the Massachusetts State College System. He is currently di-
rector of guidance at Hampshire Regional High School in Westhampton, Ma.

Davidson ‘will also be listed in “Opportunities,” a guidebook to the 200
schools in the U. S. and Canada that play major roles in the education of foreign
students.

Due for release later in September, “Opportunities” describes the admis-
sions requirements, degrees offered and financial aid available at included in-
stitutions.

Josh McDowell To Speak On Campus Next Friday

Christian evangualist Josh McDowell will visit Davidson next Friday.
McDowell will speak from 12 Noon to | p.m. in an as yet unannounced location
on campus. .

McDowell summarizerd his new perspective on Christianity, “You can
laugh at Christianity, you can mock and ridicule it. But it works. It changes
lives. If you trust Christ, start watching your attitudes and actions, because Jesus
Christ is in the business of changing lives.”

Davidson Students Attend Reagan/Bush Rally

Eighty Davidson students heard Vice President George Bush speak on cam-
paign issues and student concerns last Monday at Wake Forest University in
Winston-Salem, N. C.

The two-hour event, sponsored by N. C. Youth for Reagan/Bush, drew
around 1800 students statewide. Gubernatorial candidate Jim Martin and Gene
Johnston, head of the Reagan/Bush campaign in North Carolina, shared the
podium with Bush.

Senior Tony Holt, chairman of Davidson Youth for Reagan/Bush which
sponsored the trip, was pleased with the number of Davidson participants.

Among the concerns Martin and Bush addressed were jobs, affordable
homes, low inflation, strong defense, and incentives for free enterprise in-pov-
erty-stricken areas.

Admistration Offices Gain New Personnel

Several administrative offices on campus changed personnel over the sum-
mer. Resignations and shifts in management in the Communications, Union,
and Audio Visual offices have brought new faces to those departments.

In the Communications office, the former Director of Communications John
Slater has left to pursue a Ph. D. in journalism at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. Presently, Communications, which publishes the
Davidson Update, the college catalogue, press releases and organizes public re-
lations activities, is being directed by its staff until a new director is chosen.

Bill Giduz is acting as a technical coordinator and Beverly Harris, assisted
by Marvin Overby '83, is handling Media and Public Relations.

The Audio Visual office has seen a similar change. Former director Ruth Pit-
tard has assumed new duties as Union Activities Director. Anderson Scott ’84
and Joyce Patch will take over as directors of Audio Visual. Scott will work as
technical coordinator, and Patch will be in charge of the department's equipment
that the campus uses: projectors, tape recorders, films, and the language lab fa-
cilities. Scott worked in the office as a student here.

Pittard has assumed the job formerly held by Ann Parker as Coordinator of

NEws SUMMARY

Programs for the Union. Her duties involve many of the entertainment and cul-
tural aspects of the Union program including films and speakers. She considers
the goal of her job to be “a resource for people who want to know,” particularly
about what the Union can do. Also, Elizabeth Smiley ’84 has joined the Union
staff as operations manager. She will coordinate the setup of Union events,
maintenance of the building, and management of the work study students at the
Union.

Contributed by Chris Hughes

Davidson Receives Corporation Grants

IBM, U. S. Steel, and Dow Chemical Company are among the corporations
which awarded grants to Davidson this summer.

IBM gave Davidson $120,000 as well as $27,300 worth of computer soft-
ware in support of Davidson’s New Liberal Arts Program, a series of confer-
ences and training programs designed to integrate technology into the liberal arts
curriculum here.

Davidson's Rusk Endowment for International Studies received grants from
several sources. U. S. Steel pledged $100,000 toward the Endowment; The
Trust Company of Georgia donated $50,000, and the Jessie Ball du Pont Religi-
ous, Charitable and Educational Fund gave $100,000.

The J. Howard Pew Freedom Trust Company of Philadelphia awarded
$200,000 toward initial operating costs for the International Studies Program at
Davidson. This is the second major grant from the Pew trusts; it gave $200,000
in 1982 for the purchase of computer equipment.

The Dow Chemical Company Foundation of Michigan established an under-
graduate scholarship in chemistry with a grant of $24,000. The merit-based
scholarship provides $5,000 yearly to an outstanding high school senior major-
ing in chemistry.

Food Lion Signs ; NAACP Boycott Cancelled

Members of the R.A.C.E. committee (Racial Attitudes Concerning Every-
one), other students, and community members; meet here Sept. 6 with a repre-
sentative of the Charlotte chapter of the NA CP to organize a boycott of the
Food Lion store in Davidson.

The National Committee of the NAACP d decided at its national meeting this
summer to boycott Food Lion because the company failed to sign a Fair Share
agreement which would guarantee employment and economic opportunities for
blacks.

However, the county-wide boycott was called off last Saturday at an organi-
zational rally in Charlotte because Food Lion signed a compromise agreement
Saturday morning.

Junior Dana Lemon, one of seven Davidson students who went to the rally,
found the rally “exciting and enlightening.” The high point of the rally came, she
said, when NAACP Executive Director Benjamin Hooks announced that an
agreement had been reached with Food Lion. “Everyone started screaming and
rejoicing,’ Lemon said. Going to the rally, she said, helped her learn more about
the NAACP’s goals of achieving justice — “that was a major stressing point.”

According to NAACP officials, the compromise agreement would ensure
Food Lion will: .

- Increase the number of blacks in management positions from 79 to 158 by
1987.

- Hire a consultant who would develop contracts with black business.

- Set up a consumer advisory council.

- Do business with black-owned banks and insurance companies.

- Advertise with black-owned newspapers and radio stations.

- Meet with NAACP officials regularly to assess the progress of the Fair Share
agreement’s goals.

MEM BOARDS? NGS

CANDLES BASKET ste

DEcoRATWESA Pargre ¢
WRAP Le

TTCARDSSYPOITERY
ETC fy BTC Y ETC...

RA QIOTER FOR
GARY |

EVERY Tim me YOu Come in in SEPT.

ee ee ee

STATION ERY

ONDON CENTER

@ SEMESTER OR YEAR PROGRAM
@ ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT
@ BRITISH FACULTY

OURSES — British and European studies are
ttered in literature, history. art history, drama,
usic, sociology, education, psychology,
ommunications, and politics. Special program
tered in Drama. internships available to
ifled students in International Business,
al Services, Communications and Political
lence.
Visits to the theatre, museums, galleries,
chools, social and political institutions are
M integral part of the curriculum.

or further information write:
nternational Programs - SP
thaca College

thaca, New York 14850

