4 Friday, October 19, 1984/The Davidsonian

Student Found Not Guilty After 7 Hour Hearing

(continued from page !)

footnotes with the sources Kusch listed
in the bibliography. “I pulled some of
these books . . . and I couldn’t find any
sentences that were lifted directly out of
any book. I had thoughts that (the paper)
came from somewhere else.”

Kusch testified later in the hearing, in
response to questions from the defense
advisors Tim Waples, Chris Blake, and
Anne Miano, that he -had arranged at
least two meetings with Venturelli to dis-
cuss a different paper topic, but had
missed one of the meetings. Venturelli,
he said, missed the other. During exam
week last spring, Venturelli said he took
the matter to Dean of Students Will
Terry. Venturelli testified that he was un-
sure whether Kusch had plagiarized the
paper, and added “after four months, if
you don’t come up with any evidence
then (the hearing] is ridiculous . . . it
turns into a witch hunt.”

English Professor John Engell, who
taught Kusch in English 22 (English
Composition II) last spring, testified
that he read, at Venturelli’s request,
Kusch’s sociology paper. Engell said he
had graded nine papers written by Kusch
including rough and final drafts. “There-
fore,” Engell said, “I had a good deal of
knowledge of Jeff’s writing.” He said
Kusch had improved his writing: ability
during the course. Later in his testimony,
Engell said “in my opinion, and I have
never had an honor case before, based on
my 14 years as a teacher, this paper was
plagiarized.”

Engell said he based his suspicions
on the difference between the writing
styles of the paper Kusch wrote for Ven-
turelli and the papers Kusch wrote for
English 22. The paragraph and general
organization of Kusch’s sociology
paper, Engell said, varied from his En-.
glish 22 papers. He said the sociology
paper was better than anything Kusch
had done for English 22.

Engell cited two examples in the
paper where references.to deviance or
deviant behavior indicated, Engell said,
changes in the writing style. The two sec-
tions of the paper that dealt with de-
viance, Engell said, were “less direct.”
One contained a gramatical error, and

both were “more chatty,” he said. He re-
peated, when cross-examined by the de-
fense advisors, “I still believe that this
paper is plagiarized, but I have no direct
evidence.”

Following the testimony of Ven-
turelli and Engell, Tantillo asked Mauzé
to take the stand and present a letter writ-
ten by economics Professor Clark Ross
which contained an evaluation of the
economic content of Kusch’s paper.
Ross did not testify because he was out of
the country. The defense advisors ob-
jected to presenting the lettter as evi-
dence before the council. Council Chair-
person Nancy Rosselot instructed the
council to accept Mauzé’s testimony on
the letter as hearsay evidence.

According to the Code of Discipli-
nary Procedure, “Hearsay evidence (tes-
timony by a witness to what a person not
present at the hearing has stated) should
be received and evaluated with caution,
since no opportunity exists to question
the absent person. Objections to evi-
dence are ruled upon by the Chairman
alone.”

Mauzé did not read the letter, but
paraphrased its contents. Ross, who does
not know Kusch, read Kusch’s paper,
Mauzé testified, and did not believe a
freshman, who had not had Economics
101, could have written the paper.
Rather, he said, only one of the College's
strongest economics majors could have
written it. Ross said, according to
Mauzé, the paper resembled “clear, suc-
cinct, economic writing.”

Waples called Blake to the stand.
Blake presented to the council the opin-
ion of economics Professor Peter Hess.
Blake’s testimony was admitted as hear-
say evidence. Blake testified that Hess,
who does not know Kusch, read Kusch’s
paper and felt that Kusch was, according
to Blake, “way in over his head.” The
student, Blake said, in Hess’s opinion
had no formal contact with economics,
and if Hess were to grade the paper, he
would have given it a failing grade. Hess
thought the paper was not a good handl-
ing of economic theory, Blake testified.

After the solicitors cross-examined
Blake, Blake called Waples to the stand,

and Waples testified that Kusch reads
current economic materials and has a
general interest in economics. Waples
presented a letter from a Merrill Lynch
accounting executive who, he said, has
worked with Kusch in the past. The letter
praised Kusch’s knowledge and ability to
deal with stocks and investments, and
was admitted to the council as hearsay
evidence..

The defense advisors then called
Kusch as a witness. Responding to ques-
tions, Kusch testified that he changed the
topic of his sociology paper when, he
said, he “could not find the proper angle
of the paper.” Throughout the proceed-
ings, Kusch said he had difficulty
answering specific questions because of
the time that had elapsed between the
hearing and when he turned in his paper.

Kusch said he and Venturelli dis-
cussed his paper in a phone conversation
over the summer. He said he wrote
another paper on homosexuality during
the summer and sent it to Venturelli. The
solicitors introduced as evidence the
homosexuality paper Kusch wrote, and
the defense advisors presented the rough
draft from which the original paper was
typed, and the sources Kusch footnoted
in his paper. According to Batten, the
student solicitors had not seen the rough
draft before filing charges because they
were not sure if Kusch could produce it.

Council members questioned Kusch
extensively on his knowledge of
economics.

Closing Statements

In their closing statement, the de-
fense advisors said the solicitors had
based their case on speculation and opin-
ions. They emphasized that Kusch had
an “intuitive and rudimentary under-
standing” of economics, Concerning En-
gell’s testimony, Blake said Kusch’s in-
creased interest in the subject matter of
the paper he turned in to Venturelli could
account for the differences in writing
Style.

Blake said Kusch credited his paper
properly, and about questions of the
paper's content, he said “bad papers are
not the equivalent of plagiarized papers.”

Batten said in the solicitor’s closing

Statement “we don’t have a smoking
gun,” and added that the burden of pre-
senting a specific source that Kusch
could have plagiarized from was over-
whelming. The writing ability and
knowledge of the paper came from an
outside source, he said, citing Engell’s
testimony that Kusch was not capable of
writing the paper. He said where the
paper mentions deviance is where the
writing style changes. Batten said one of
Kusch’s footnotes gave credit to material
that did not appear on the page cited in
the footnote.

The Council members deciding the
case deliberated during periodic recesses
and for 90 minutes after the hearing
ended. Rosselot announced the verdict to
a gathering of about 25 students and pro-
fessors outside of Eu Hall.

Kusch said he was “obviously
happy” he was found not guilty. “It
seems like there should be something
more than just a not guilty verdict, after
all you go through,” he added.

Hearing Procedure

Kusch’s honor hearing was the first
open one since February 1982. This
hearing was the first case handled by the
defense advisors and the student sol-
icitors in their term of office. The follow-
ing Honor Council members heard the
case and decided the verdict: senior
Council Chairperson Nancy Rosselot,
seniors Ed Henderson and Shep Robin-
son, juniors Sayres Rudy and Ed Lilly,
and sophomore Michael Holt.

The student body elects the defense
advisors and student solicitors; the
former aid the accused in preparing his or
her defense, and the latter investigate
suspicions of honor violations submitted
to them or to the Dean of Students. The
solicitors decide whether adequate evi-
dence exists to file charges against a stu-
dent suspected of an honor violation.

If the accused does not admit guilt to
the Dean of Students, the case goes be-
fore the Honor Council. If the accused
admits guilt, the Dean of Students will
handle the case and decide the sanction
or the accused may have the Honor
Council determine the sanction.

Terry, Council Members Look At Procedure

(continued from page !)

said he and Blake also hope to discuss the
procedure with members of the Review
Board and the SCC.

Though some procedural problems
cropped up during the Kusch case, Blake
said they do not relate only to that case.
He said no procedural violations oc-
curred during the investigation into the
plagiarism charge against Kusch. Some
confusion did develop, but “there's noth-
ing overtly wrong,” Waples said.

Kusch’s father, Robert E. Kusch, a
Vero Beach, FI. lawyer, expressed dis-
satisfaction with the way his son's case
had been handled. “In the preparatory
stage, things went wrong,” he said.
“Within the school there should be some
very serious discussion of this thing.”

Students attending the hearing have
also raised general questions about coun-
cil procedures, especially concerning a
perceived lack of grounds for a hearing.

“ have heard people say that the case
should never have been brought to trial,”
Batten said. a

“That reflects a misunderstanding.”
He said the solicitors felt that if they did

not bring the case before the Honor
Council, they would have judged Kusch
innocent. Batten said it is not the sol-
icitors role to judge guilt or innocence.

“We thought the best thing was to
have atrial,” Batten said. He said the sol-
icitors decided a minimum level of evi-
dence existed for a hearing. Batten cited
the “strong statements” the solicitors re-
ceived from economics Professor Clark
Ross and English Professor John Engell,
and discrepancies between the sources
and the way Kusch used them in his
paper.

Other procedural questions involve
the length of time between the spring
term complaint and the fall term charge,
why solicitors questioned Kusch in a
taped conversation before presenting
him with a written charge, why the sol-
icitors present the final closing argu-
ments in honor code hearings rather than
the defense advisors, and admission of
hearsay evidence in Honor Code hear-
ings.

The Code of Disciplinary Procedures
allows no more than 10 days to elapse be-

tween a honor violation complaint and
any formal charges. However, the Code
allows the Dean of Students to ignore
holidays, weekends, and vacations if he
sees fit.

Terry said he understood the concern
about cases extended over the summer.
He said it had occurred, however. Usu-
ally only “open-and-shut” cases were
brought to hearings during the summer,
he addd.

Terry acknowledged that the sol-
icitors may have erred in interviewing
Kusch on tape before the charges were
given to him. But, Terry said, they did
not attempt to use any material from that
discussion as evidence.

Robert Kusch noted that usually the
defense made closing arguments last in
courts of law. This is an important
theoretical factor in “presumption of in-
nocence,” he said.

Blake said the order of closing argu-
ments should be discussed thoughtfully.

Another problem Robert Kusch said
he saw was admission of hearsay evi-

dence. Hearsay evidence is evidence of
what one person has said, reported to the
hearing by someone else. In the Kusch
hearing, both sides used hearsay evi-
dence in reporting professors’ remarks.

Robert Kusch said both solicitors and
defense advisers ought to be present
when a witness is interviewed whose tes-
timony will be used as hearsay evidence.

The Code of Disciplinary Procedures
allows hearsay evidence, but cautions
council members to weigh it with care
since the original witness cannot be
cross-examined.

Terry said the code was designed to
include such factors as hearsay evidence.
He emphasized that the hearing room
was not a court of law. He said Judge J.
Dickinson Phillips, a 4th Circuit Court of
Appeals justice had designed the Code so
that amateurs — students — could apply
It.

Solicitor Mike Tantillo noted the sys-
tem as designed is “not an adversarial
system.” Rather, he said, the hearing
process is an attempt to find the truth.
