W/.Ae.-A--
vv AHIUSUa

j;, December 5, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

SGA Committee Addresses Security Situation

By LISA THOMAS

Prompted by a fall-term theft incident
in Knox Dormitory, the SGA has reacti-
vated its Security committee to decrease
a perceived lack of student awareness
surrounding the issue of campus secu-
rity.

: Chaired by junior Carroll Overton,

the committee has begun an escort ser-
vice from the library to Knox, Irwin and
Akers dormitories. According to Over-
ton, students will be available in the li-
brary to accompany those who are afraid
to return to their dorms at late hours.
The committee is also considering
the possibility recommending the instal-
lation of a combination- or card-lock sys-

Davidsonian, Union Offices

Uncontested In

By DAVID VAN PELT

Six positions in Tuesday’s SGA elec-
tions, including The Davidsonian editor-
ship and all College Union posts, will be
uncontested.

“Our main goal will be to keep the
student body informed on what is going
on on campus and in town,” said sopho-
more John Gathings. Gathings and
sophomore Kevin Horan will become the
next Davidsonian editors. “We want to
continue the local focus of the paper,” he
said. Gathings served as Features Editor
of The Davidsonian for two terms, Man-
aging Editor for one term and is now Pro-
duction Manager.

After editing his high school literary
magazine, Horan began working on The
Davidsonian as a photographer. He said
he has studied production, editing, and
for the last two terms has been The
Davidsonian’s Business _—_ Manager,
“which threw me into learning about all
different areas,” he said. Gathings said
he and Horan will work to “make sure
we're covering the pertinent issues and
how they affect the student body.”

“I can’t believe more people didn’t
sign up,” said sophomore Lucinda Kel-
lam, who will run unopposed for Union
Vice-President. She cited poor publicity
as the reason for the number of uncon-
tested races.

An accurate response to the “feelings
of the community” is what the Union “is
really striving for,” Kellam said. She
said her current position on the Campus
Forum Committee has prepared her for
the position of Union vice-president,
which primarily helps select members of
Union committees. She said she hopes to
“bring all different types of people to-
gether” to participate in Union activities.

“It’s amazing what the Union can do
if it has involvement,” said junior Frank

Elections

Hobart, who will become Union Social
Vice-President. Though Hobart said he
enjoyed his two year service on the SGA,
as Irwin Dorm and junior class senator,
he said he is “interested in getting more
involved with students.” He said his aim
as Union social vice-president will be to
make the Union “do exactly what the stu-
dents want it to do.”

Though junior Edwin Evans is not
currently a member of any Union Board
Committee, he said he is “very familiar
with the way it works.” Evans, the
cousin of the current Union President
Thomas Evans, will become the next
president. The Union president's respon-
sibilities consist of appointing Union
committee members and “carrying on
and supporting” Union activities.

Sophomore Lynn Michie said she
feels her two terms as program coordi-
nator for the Y-Corps tutoring progam
and her work with the Davidson CROP
program have prepared her for her role as
Y-Corps vice-president. She sees the
purpose of the Y-Corps offices as “‘find-
ing out what needs there are in the com-
munity.” She plans to maintain the cur-
rent Y-Corps services and “add any new
programs which the student body thinks
we need to have.” An environmental pro-
gram is one which she will try to imple-
ment.

Juniors Sara Beasley and Tom
Cardwell will run unopposed _ for
freshman advisors. They are both cur-
rently hall counselors, and will “continue
our support for a strong program,” said
Cardwell.

Beasley anticipates major changes in
hall counselor policies toward drugs,
vandalism, or other areas. “Every year
you need to redefine certain policies.”
They see this as one of their chief respon-
sibilities.

tem in the dorms. There are no definite
plans for a locking system at this time,
but Overton is preparing a formal propo-
sal to present to the SGA.

Housing Director Bill Bolding said
“security in all of its facets is a primary
problem right now.” “As far as I know,
we are the only campus around with open
dorms at all hours,” he added. Bolding
said that all of the dorms are vulnerable
to theft, although the problem has been
accented in the three outer dorms this
year.

According to Bolding, many people
feel that security issues question the effi-
cacy of the Honor Code. He said that it is
not a question of honor or of the failure of
the Honor Code. “It’s a matter of people
from off-campus coming on.”

With the rapid growth of Charlotte,
Davidson is no longer an isolated, rural
community. College President John
Kuykendall said “it is a fact of life we
have to confront that no place on campus
is invulnerable. We are now suburban
Charlotte.”

Kuykendall stated that the incidents
that have occurred appear to be matters
of chance, rather than planned offenses.
He added, “My main concern is that we
don’t go one, two, or three steps behind
an event, but that we take precautionary
measures.” Bolding agreed that ‘‘pro-ac-
tive measures must be taken instead of
reactive ones.”

Dean of Students Will Terry said that
although the College provides personnel,
a security system will be only as good “as
the students want to make it.” Terry
suggested that a student security commit-
tee conduct a campaign to make students
“security conscious.” Kuykendall agreed
that students awareness must be raised
before any effective changes can be
made in the security system.

Director of the Physical Plant Grover
Meetze welcomed student interest in se-
curity and cited examples of past security
measures that were rejected by students.
When Davidson first admitted women
locks were placed on the front doors of
the women’s dorms and students reacted
by removing the doors from their hinges.
Meetze added that the current security
system was established by a vote of the
SGA.

Kuykendall and Terry cited revisions
in the campus dispatch system as one im-
provement in campus security. Terry
added that “we may need to establish a
pattern of patrolling based on the traffic
patterns of students.” Bolding said that
simply having a more visible patrolling
force on campus would discourage tres-
passers.

Bolding is “frustrated” with the state
of campus security because “people are
talking but someone needs to take the in-
itiative.” “I'm not seeing any move-
ment,” he said.

/
y is

Windy

ing Endowment.

Emanon’s Betsy Downes attempts to extract money from an alumni
account during the SGA Phonathon. The phonathon began last Mon-
day and will end Thursday, with proceeds going to the College’s Liv-

Some In Davidson Feel Impact Of Gandhi

By DAVID McGEE

“We have lost our innocence,” said
history Professor Job Thomas, a native
Indian, about the Oct. 31 assassination of
Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.
Gandhi’s determined, forceful style of
leadership was exemplified last June in.
her decision to invade the Golden Tem-
ple of Armistar, the holiest shrine of the
Sikhs, a religious minority in India.

In addition to Thomas, religion pro-
fessor William Mahoney, who spent last
term in India, and exchange student from
India Chandan Sinha reflected this week
on the impact of Gandhi's assassination
and troubled India’s future.

“In a way the country has gained,”
Thomas said. India’s constitutional pro-
cess survived the crisis with the smooth
passage of power to Indira Gandhi's son,
Rajiu, 40, who has assumed the post of
prime minister.

Thomas feels that communal rela-
tions in India will be tested in coming

months. In one way, the “senselessness”
of the assassination may foster unity
among India’s many ethnic com-
munities, he said.

But the Sikh community has suffered
an increased loss of trust by other In-
dians, he said. The Sikhs, who constitute
two percent of India’s population, have
experienced an uneasy and often violent
relationship with India’s Hindu majority.
Sikhism, which emerged in the 1 6th cen-
tury amid turmoil between Hinduism and
Islam, grew to emphasize self-protection
to combat centuries of oppression. Most
Sikhs reside in Punjab, one of India’s
most prosperous provinces.

The good harvests and robust
economic growth of recent years, many
observers say, resulted in part from In-
dira Gandhi's ability to maintain unity.
“India has 1/50 of the resources the U.S.
has,” Thomas said. “Every region is de-
pendent on the other. . . It is very easy
to share prosperity, but not poverty.”

Mahoney was on a train to Madras
the morning of the assassination. The
train, he said, came to an abrupt halt near
Madras. Immediately the passengers
sealed off the train and closed its metal
window shutters, he said. Though he
could not speak the local dialect, he
gradually pieced together the news of
Gandhi's assassination.

“In India,” he said, “the natural reac-
tion to acrisis like this 1s to shut every-
thing down.” When he arrived in Mad-
ras, he found the usually bustling city
deserted. “It was eerie,” he said.

“The country held together remarka-
bly well,” he said. Though rioters indis-
criminantly attacked Sikhs in many
cities, Mahoney said, Rajiu Gandhi visi-
ted many troubled communities and
exerted a calming influence.

“A lot of the press coverage revealed
that Sikhs were celebrating. That just
wasn't true.’ Mahoney said Sikh leaders
in India denounced the assassination.

Assassination

Exchange student Chandan Sinha
said he was “quite shocked” upon hear
ing of Gandhi's assassination. “I thought
she would survive. That has something
to do with her personality.” Sinha des-
cribed the Indian leader as “cunning.
forceful, and very ruthless also.” Gandhi
“did everything she did for the benefit of
India,” he said. She ts responsible for “a
great deal” of India’s technological de
velopment, Sinha said. .

“You have to realize we aré a very
young nation,” Sinha said, explaining
the political and religious turmoil which
has plagued India since it gained inde
pendence from England in 1947
“Thirty-seven years is nothing in the his
tory of any nation.”

Sinha stressed the difficulty of unit
ing a country with 750 million inhabit
ants, 18 languages, and over 300 reg
ional dialects. “We are in the process ot
nation-building. [tis a process which ts
going to continue for many years.”

