Thursday, December 12, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

: 19

Soviet-type propaganda permeates U.S. as well

Nate Spell

In the November 8 issue of The Davidsonian, Bruce
Sarkisian had a few “Comments on [the] American-Soviet
Summit.” He sought to remind us that despite Mr. Gor-
bachev’s positive personal image, the Soviet leader is dis-
seminating propaganda designed to bias public opinion to-
ward the U.S.S.R. and to portray our president as a “merci-
less war-monger.” Absolutely! We have grown to expect
from the Soviets’ distortion of “facts” and attempts to di-
vert scrutiny from their own questionable actions in the
world and at home. It is common practice in the game of
negotiating manuevers that each side tries to bolster its pos-
ition and its influence prior to a meeting so that any agree-
ments will not call for more sacrifice than a side wishes to
make. Mr. Sarkisian should not be sg naive, however, as to
believe that the United States does not do exactly the same
thing. What is the name “Star Wars”, but an advertisement
for a glorious new-fangled, high-flying, sci-fying, whiz-
bang gizmo that will save all mankind and will make nucle-
ar arms obsolete? When donkeys fly! Strategic Defense In-
itiative? This is another name for the Star Wars project
which veils the destablizing influence it has on arms negoti-
ations. The U.S. calls attention to civil and human rights
abuses within the Soviet Union with great fervor on the eve
of negotiations, as well as Soviet involvement in the Third
World. These are calculated moves on our part. The West-
em Europeans are not fooled by the propaganda and win-
ning personalities of either superpower leader. Let us be as

nuclear war.

London School of Economics
' and Political Science

A chance to study and live in London

Junior-year programs,
One-Year Master's Degrees and
Opportunities in the Social Sciences.

The wide range of subjects includes

Postgraduate Diplomas.
Research

{t is true, as Mr. Sarkisian claims, that the Soviets are
trying to divert attention from their wrongful involvement
and deplorable activities in countries where they have no
legitimate concern. He describes the citizens of these coun-
tries as “victims of Marxist-Leninist ideology, which in it-
self is bad enough, but when imposed against one’s will, it
becomes all the more tyrannical.” Agreed. Let us here, as
in the case of propaganda, also be cognizant of U.S. ac-
tions. If I may presume to speak on behalf of many citizens
of countries which currently are in the throes of guerrilla
warfare, I suggest that they do not care from which ideol-
ogy the unrest originates. People in El Salvador,
Nicaragua, Afghanistan, Cambodia, and elsewhere want
peace, security, and a government which will provide a sta-
ble environment for them to go on with the process of their
work and lives. In any country, if the U.S. or U.S.S.R.
backs a tyrannical government or revolutionary group
which causes undesired unrest and loss to the people, then
it is wrong. We might say that the Soviets are more strongly
involved in such activities, but this is not a matter for the
bargaining table in Geneva. Besides not having aclean pos-
ition from which to argue this issue, the matter of super-
power involvement in other countries, while related to in-
ternational security, is dwarfed by the reality of nuclear
arms and the potential peril they represent. Currently the
world may not be on the brink of nuclear war, but existing
levels of nuclear weapons pose much more of a threat to
world survival than the largely political matter of where
and to what extent the superpowers are meddling where
they are not wanted. “Star Wars”, on the other hand, di-
rectly affects the future of the arms race and thus the risk of
perceptive.

To look further at the “Star Wars” project, it is naive to
claim, as Mr. Sarkisian does, that “the only reason the
Soviets want to see ‘Star Wars’ scrapped is that they don’t
have the technology to build it.” Surprise! Neither do we!
Mr. Reagan chose to consider the S.D.1. against the advice
of most of the available scientific experts. There was a
large body of opinion by those who would best know that
such a space-based antiballistic missile system is tech-
nologically not feasible. Instead, Mr. Reagan chose to be-
lieve the words of a few who thought that we can build such
a device in the future. Even if it is feasible, the system will
take years of costly research to develop. By the best esti-
mates, such a system will never be able to stop all incoming
missles. If only a small percentage of the U.S.S.R.’s mis-
siles penetrate our defenses (I have heard the S.D.I. might
stop 95 percent of incoming ICBM’s), the U.S. will be vir-
tually destroyed. Also, “Star Wars” will do nothing to stop
intermediate range and submarine-launched missiles. It
cannot protect our allies in Europe. Don't you know the
West Germans just love that? The rea! reason the U.S.S.R.
wants “Star Wars” scrapped is that it will provoke an esca-
lation of the nuclear arms race into space. They are not
technologically ready to make that jump, and no sensible
person on earth should desire such an occurrence.

Though I could continue with other points to Mr. Sarki-
sian’s argument, I will stop here. I am sure Mr. Sarkisian
was trying to do us all a favor and alert us to the sneakiness
of the “crafty Soviet propagandists” in his article, His was a
noble purpose, but we must avoid throwing stones when
our house is made of glass.

Spell is a senior chemistry major from Lexington, S.C.

CARS FOR RENT

U-Save Auto Rental

Accounting and Finance @ Actuarial Science e@ .

Anthropology @ Business Studies @ Economics e
Econometrics @ Economic History @ European
Studies @ Geography @® Government @ Industral
Relations @ International History © International
Relations @ Law @ Management Science ® Operational
Research @ Personnel Management e Philosophy e
Population Studies @ Politics @ Regional and Urban
Planning Studies @ Sea-Use Policy @ Social
Administration @ Social Planning ‘in Developing
Countries @ Social Work @ Sociology © Social
Psychology ® Statistical and Mathematical Sciences @
Systems Anaylsis ®

FOUR-DOORS AND TWO DOORS
$16 A DAY
FIRST 50 MILES FREE
INSURANCE OPTIONAL

TRUCKS FOR ONLY $20 A DAY!

664- 2703

Night and Day Service

Application forma from:

Admissions Registrar, L.S.E.. Houghton Street,
London WC2A 2A€E, England, stating whether
undergraduate or postgraduate

and quoting Room 10.

SEE: Dean Barnette or Sonny Stutts

x Port City Motor Co.

<

First Union National Bank

P.O. Box 39
Davidson

Cornelius

Mooresville, N.C.

Huntersville

