Friday, January 25, 1985/The Davidsonian

Amnesty International To Show Film Monday

Amnesty International will sponsor a Letter Writing to government officials
of South Africa at 9:30 Monday night. AI will also show the film “Last Grave at
Dimbaza” at 8:30 in the Big Screen Room. The letter writing will be held after-
wards. The public is invited to both events.

Davidson Rescue Squad Always Ready

The Davidson Emergency Rescue Squad (DERS) has grown rapidly at
Davidson over the last year. According to Hunter Roddey, one of two co-chiefs
of DERS, awareness of the program has increased this year because of the large
number of calls fall term. DERS is an on-campus rescue team that assists college
residents (on campus and off) in medical emergencies; it is also a program that
allows interested students to gain experience in medical work.

The squad consists of certified emergency medical technichans (EMTs) and
EMTs in training. Four of the EMTs are DERS officers, and every rescue squad
crew consists of the DERS officer, another EMT and an EMT in training.

ENA

News SUMMARY-

The training program for EMTs consists of 130 class hours and 10 hours of
emergency-room experience. Presently there are 10 squad members, all cer-
tified by the state, and over 20 trainees undergoing instruction. According to
Roddey there are surprisingly few pre-med majors in the program.

Many of the members are biology and psychology majors that want to gain
practical experience with medical emergencies.

For all interested students, DERS meets in the campus police hut at 5 p.m.
Sundays. Roddey said anyone can join the group at any time, although the next
available course for those who wish to become squad members will be offered
next year.

The DERS officers include two co-chiefs, Hunter Roddey and Robin
Scheid, a treasurer, Olivier Van Dierdonck, and secretary Elizabeth McLemore.
Three squad members are on call 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and any in-
formation concerning calls is strictly confidential among squad members:

“Have our number by your phone and call us first. We can get there faster
than the hospital can, and, if an ambulance is needed, we'll call for one,” Rod-

dey said.
() J 4

VOTEON CLASS GIFT

Tuesday in Chambers

@ Minority Scholarships -

@Davidson Student Endownent

eLibrary bok Fund

@ Education and Techndogy

Ce |)

