2

-News Summary-

Kuykendall appoints search committee

President Kuykendall has appointed a search committee to find a
replacement for retiring Business Manager Bob Currie.

In a Nov. 15 letter to the faculty and administrative staff of the
college, Kuykendall said“. _ _ the committee will have the respon-
sibility for proposing a job description which defines the parameters
of the new position and for the selection of an individual or individu-
als to be recommended for appointment to this office.”

He also outlined a major change in the college's administrative
Structure which would involve the creation of a new vice-presiden-
tial position. He said. ~. . . it will be best for us to restructure the
admunistration of the college in the area of business and finance by
the appointment of an officer with the title of vice president, to
whom the several aspects of the college in that area will report.”

He added. “I shall propose an amendment to the Constitution to
that effect.~

The Search Committee is chaired by Vice President of
Academuac Affairs and Dean of Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann.
Other members of the committee include Comptroller Robert
Davidson. Director of Personne! and Administrative Services
Robert Stephenson. Vice President of Development John Griffith,
Professor of Philosophy Lance Stell. Director of Alumni Relations
Jame May and Director of Facilities Planning Grover Meetze.

Vice President Zimmermann said the committee has not yet de-
crded on a selection process. but plans to meet this Friday to discuss
strategy. “We hope to have someone in place by spring.” Zimmer-
mann said

Winter election results announced

Student solicitors: Jeff. Lesesne. David Lloyd and Alex
Maultsby. Defense advisors: Lloyd Chapin and George Guise.

Freshman advisors: Ann Roddey and Brett Flinchum.

Union president: Lucinda Kellam. Union co-curncular vice
president: Sheryl Aikman. Union social vice president: Bobby
Houck.

Davidsonian editors: Brooke Knight and Andy Barton. Wildcat
Handbook editors: Mandy Barret and Jody Hart.

YSSC president! Dan Murrey. YSSC vice president: Lynn
Michie

SGA considers third exam period

The SGA is examininz a proposal to add an evening exam
penod. according to SGA president Beadsie Woo. “It [the proposal}
came up because some people work better at night.” Woo said.

The proposal, if passed by the SGA and then by a faculty ‘ote.
would create three evening periods for self-scheduled exams. Cur-
rently there are four morning and four afternoon exam periods.

Registrar Sue Ross said: “If faculty felt it [an evening exam
penod] educationally sound, this office would do what it could. 'm
not positive it’s educationally sound.”

“The biggest problem.” Ross said. “is that the building [Cham-
bers] would be tied up ~

Fall term campus incidents report released

The Public Safety Department recently released totals of inc:-
dents and monies lost

There were 40 larceny incidents. five damage-to- property inc1-
dents and four cases of breaking and entenng

During the fall term, $31.319 worth of tems were stolen. in

cluding two cars. Recovered was $8.420 worth. Not mefudedt wn this |

figure is the recovery of the second car in December Total fall term
damages to the school amounted to $4.512

India program provides insight

By WAYNE MAGRUDER

Among Davidson’s oppor-
tunities for international travel,
the fall term program in India of-
fers the only non-Western learn-
ing experience.

Religion professor William
Mahoncy led this year’s group of
16 Davidson and two Duke stu-
dents on the three-month journey
of study and travel.

The students spent six weeks
living in Madras while they com-
pleted a course in the Tamil lan-
guage and a seminar on South
Each participant also chose an in-
dependent study topic.

During most weekends, the
group traveled to regional sites
like Mysore, Bangalore,
Kanchipuram.

The last week of the trip was de-
voted to free travel time.

The India program offered op-
portunities for students to make a

detailed study of many
phenomena unfamiliar to Wester-
ners. Junior John Odom did his in-
dependent study on Jainism and
saw a holy Jainist statue some
three hours by crowded bus from
Madras. He learned of both early
religious beliefs and the contem-
porary customs of travel in a de-
nsely populated, underdeveloped
country. Odom said it was “a re-
vealing experience” and indica-
tive of the type of exposure travel
brings.

Senior Catherine Melton’s in-
dependent study focused on
Christians who refuse to be bap-
tized because baptism is treated as
a sign of an outcast by most Hin-
dus. Senior Binney Jannetta

studied leprosy , a common afflic-
tion in many parts of South and
Southeast Asia, and visited a lep-
rosy center.

The independent studies al-
lowed the students the flexibility
to pursue topics within the realms

of their different majors. Junior
Gordon Watkins did a study of
rural development; junior Ellen
Harding, on Hindu festivals:
junior Laura Kline, on Yoga:
junior Mark Swift, on classical
Hindu music; Sherri Schwenke,
on the changing roie of the indi-
vidual in the caste system; senior
Holly Parrish, on children in India
— their health, nutrition and edu-
cation.

Several participants found the
return home harder to adjust to
than the trip abroad. Odom com-
mented that he found Davidson
“different, not what I’d remem-
bered.” Junior Mark Gosnell re-
minisced longingly about India.

Parrish said, “The longer |
stayed in India, the more I learned
about America.” There was a con-
sensus that one of the most valu-
able and lasting impressions one
picks up from other cultures is a
new perspective on one’s own so-

ciety.

CHICAGO

DALLAS

Be responsible for placing advertising materials on your
campus bulletin boards. Work on exciting marketing programs

for clients such as American Express, AT & T, Sony and
Sierra Club. Choose your own hours. Good experience and

great money! For more information call,
1-800-426-5537 9-5 pm.

(West Coast time )

Representative Program

American Passage
900 Third Ave West
Seattle, WA 98119

LOS ANGELES NEW YORK

SEATTLE

camp thunderbird

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are inter-
ested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and
spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted ef-
forts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must
have ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students,
teachers and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles
southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in
water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canocing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery and back-
backing). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping are extras in our ex-
cellent program. For further information writer or call G. William Climer, Jr., Direc-
tor, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C. , 29710 (803-831-2121).

Davidson
892-7815

UNITED

CAROLINA
BANK

uch

Main St.

892-7805
Lake Norman

I-77 at Hwy 73

