Friday, May 3, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Summary

Awards Honor Outstanding Students

Davidson College honored the outstanding accomplishments of its faculty
and students during its annual Spring Awards Convocation held in Love Au-
ditorium last Friday at 11 a.m.

Scheduled to coincide with Alumni Weekend, the Convocation saw the fac-
ulty and students in attendance in full academic regalia. President John W.
Kuykendall presided over the ceremony and offered some opening remarks.

Also present were junior Lillian Woo, president of the Student Government
Assocation, who welcomed the audience on behalf of the College, and sopho-
more Lynn Michie, vice president of the Y Student Serivce Corps, who deli-
vered the invocation.

Dabney Stuart ’60, professor of English at Washington and Lee University
and author of such poetry collections as The Diving Bell, The Other Hand and
The Common Place, presented two literary awards. The R. Windley Hall Writ-
ing Award for freshmen went to Heidi Hooker and John Smith. The Vereen Bell
Memorial Award for Creative Writing was presented to senior John Marks.

In addition, more than two dozen students received honors for accomplish-
ments in academic disciplines, campus service, athletics and personal character.
Following is a list of those awards:

Bremer German Language Award — senior Timothy Schipke

James Chapman, Jr. Annual Award in the field of business — junior Kevin
Burke

Jefferson Davis Award for the study of constitutional law — junior Melissa
Jones.

David Halbert Howard, Jr. Chemistry Award — junior Dary! Pfister

William G. McGavock Mathematics Award — seniors Julia Morrisett and
Hendrick van Deventer

A.K. Phifer Award in Economics — junior Stephen Dockery

Richard Ross Memorial Music Award — senior Laura McDonald

Susan Roberts Award for women’s intercollegiate athletics — senior Sarah
Patterson

Thomas D. Sparrow Award for intercollegiate athletics — senior Robert
Letton

Department of the Army Superior Cadet Awards — senior Robert Kmiecik,

junior Andrew Myers and sophomore Thomas Ridenhour, Jr.

James Baker Woods, III Memorial ROTC Award — junior James Burson

Danie! Blain Woods Premedical Award — junior Shelley Chapman

Sandy Black Memorial Premedical Award — junior Nathan Spell

Eumenean Literary Society Award — senior John Driggers

Alumni Association Award — sophomore Gordon Watkins

C. Shaw Smith Award for service to the College Union — senior Wilson
Lowrey

Rebecca E. Stimson Award for women’s athletics and leadership — senior
Patricia Ives

Tommy Peters Award for athletics and leadership — senior Kirk Gavel

Goodwin-Exxon Awards for character, sportmanship and consideration for
others — senior Paul Coggins, junior Amelia Hartman and sophomore Lynn
Michie

Theatre Department Award — senior John Marks

Charles Malone Richards Award for preministerial students — junior Ellen
Oerter

Agnes Sentelle Brown Award for outstanding character and scholarship —

THE HAIR COTTAGE

ALL Student Haircuts $5.00

Linda, formerly with Davidson’s Headquarters,
has relocated to the Hair Cottage.
Linda will be working with hair stylist
Jane Schenck. They invite all of
their student clientele to call
892-4959 for an appointment

“THE BEST LITTLE HAIR HOUSE IN DAVIDSON”

junior Edward Hay _
George L. Gladstone Memorial Award for service and leadership — junior

Sara Beasley a
In addition, the following students were selected for membership in Omni-
con Delta Kappa, a national leadership honorary society:
Senior Mark Batten, junior Thomas Cardwell, senior Katherine Gratto, Ed-
ward Hay, Melissa Jones, junior Paulette Kurani, and junior Anne Lambert.
Other selected for ODK membership were junior Lisa McNeilly, senior
Anne Miano, Ellen Oerter, Sarah Patterson, senior David Resnick, Nathan
spell, senior Pam Strader, and junior David Vaughn.

Faculty Recital To Be Presented

Frank Albinder, instructor in music and director of the chorus, will present a

Faculty Recital on May 8 at 8:15 in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts
Building.

Albinder, a bass-baritone, will perform works by John Dowland, Henry Pur-

cell, George Butterworth, Charles E. Ives, Samuel Barber and Aaron Copland.

A 1980 graduate of Pomona College with a bachelor’s degree in music, Al-

binder holds master’s degrees in vocal performance and choral conducting from
the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston. He has performed with the
Boston Camerata, the Banchetto Musicale and the Boston Schubert Ensemble.
In addition, he has served as conductor for the North Parrish Choral Society in
Andover, Mass., and soloist for Boston’s First and Second Church.

Albinder will be accompanied on the piano by Joel Harrison, a lecturer in

music.

Sponsored by the music department, the recital is open to the public at no

charge.

Faculty Members Honored at Convocation

Two Davidson faculty members were honored at Convocation last Friday for
teaching and administrative excellence.

“I feel very honored,” said Economics Professor Peter Hess, who received
the Omnicron Delta (ODK) teaching award. The honor is bestowed by student
members of the leadership society to a profesor demonstrating outstanding
teaching ability. “I think it reflects as much as anything. I really enjoy teaching,
Hess said, praising Davidson students for the motivation and willingness to
learn.

Registrar Richard Burts said the institution of Davidson College has been a
striking influence on his life. Burts received the Thomas Jefferson Award for a
faculty member who epitomizes the “high ideals of Jefferson.” He said he has -
tried to subordinate himself to the good of the institution.

“] just appreciate the recognition,” he said, but “you don’t work to get that
kind of thing.”

Burts will retire at the end of this term. “Davidson is a tremendously rich
campus experience,” he said. “It hurts me that there are so many fine people, and
programs and experiences, and that I’ve had my nose to the grindstone.” He
plans not to say good bye to Davidson when he retires, but to inaugurate a new
phase of his relationship to the school. “I expect to come back in the building,”
he said.

| UNITED 1 I-77 at Hwy 73

CA SANK. Cornelius/Lake
iia Norman

137 N. Main St. 892-7805
Davidson
892-7815

MOTHER'S DAY ~
MAY- 12

<3
THE VILLAGE STeRe - LAK
OFFERS A \WIDE SELECTION

Cr Rte c FOR_Mom +—
“FREE GIFT WRAP -
“PATIC GLASSES

“PATIO CANDLES “FABRIC FRAMES
TIRAVEL ACCEssonies COUNTRY DIARY

PICNIC BASKETS }
