2 es Se
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 11

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 Friday, January 11, 1985

Farrell Steps
Down As
Head Coach

Task force members discuss the race report at yesterdays student forum

Task Force Forums Gather Opinions

By DAVID McGEE
“Intense. recruitment, goes hand-in-

hand. with creating anenvitonment-that—,-

retains students,” John Griffith, -co-
chairman of the presidential Task Force
on Racial/Ethnic Concerns, said yester-
day about the goal the task force has for
minorities at Davidson. This week the
Task Force’ sought the opinions of stu-
dents and faculty in two forums concern-
ing the report it released Nov. 30.

Major points. brought up at. both
forums will be included in the task
force’s final report to President John
Kuykendall, who will present recom-
mendations to the Trustees on the de-
velopment of Davidson’s policy toward
minorities.

In addition, a reaction panel, com-
posed of town residents and others as-
sociated with Davidson, will evaluate the

task force’s report. Griffith said the reac-
tion panel's report will-be on file‘in the li-

The task force will hold another
forum today at 4 p.m. on monitoring the
progress of the strategies outlined in its
report.

The two forums held yesterday and
Wednesday focused primarily on the re-
port’s suggested strategies for addressing
nine areas of concern for minority stu-
dent’s experience here. These areas in-
clude recruitment of black students, so-
cial stresses that blacks and_ other
minorities face on campus and in the
Davidson community, lack of black role
models on the faculty and staff, emphasis
on black racial culture, heritage, and his-
tory in Davidson’s academic program,
the high attrition rate of black students,
and involvement of black alumni in the

life of the college.

The Trustees will consider the rec-
ommended:strategies and approve fund-
ing for them at their February meeting.

For recruitment of black students, the
report’s strategies call for full merit
scholarships for academically excep-
tional black students; starting in 1986,
four would be awarded yearly. The re-
port recommends measures to intensify
recruitment of blacks, particularly at reg-
ional high schools and schools with sig-
nificant black populations. One student
said at a forum yesterday some black stu-
dents he knew at a Charlotte high school
had never heard of Davidson. Plans also
include hiring a full-time black Admis- -
sions department staff member.

The second set of strategies seeks to
bolster support for blacks who come to

(continued on page 3)

Christian Harberts

By TED WILSON

Davidson's football fans will no
longer see Head Coach Ed Farrell on the
sidelines. Farrell told Athletic Director
Kit Morris Monday that he will not return
as head football coach next year. Farrell
was 36-70-1 in 11 seasons at Davidson
and 70-79-1 in 14 seasons as a college
head coach.

Farrell said, “I couldn't see that any-
thing better in the foreseeable future
would happen in the football program. |
felt I should do something different than
coach here, producing losing records.

“T had given it a great deal of thought
at the beginning of last spring,” Farrell
said, when he decided to step down as
Athletic Director and “put everything
into football.”

First, he wanted to complete the 1984
season and make a decision based on the
results.

“The coaching staff [did] an excellent
job, and I couldn't have asked for any
more from the players” during spring
training and the season. “After a 2-8 sea-

son [I saw] nothing to encourage me that

a winning one was a possibility. | de-
cided I needed to do something differ-
ent.”

President John Kuykendall said it
was “his [Farrell's] decision, we talked
about it over a period of time. There was
no pressure from me to do this.” He
added, ‘The reasons he gave were accu-
rate and we were in accord on how things
stood.”

Kit Morris said “we had a chance to

(continued on page 3)

Students, AdministratorsWork For Rape Prevention

By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson’s new RAPE _ (Raised
Awareness and Protectior. “or Everyone)
committee seeks to educate Davidson
students and aid victims of assault on
campus, according to committee chair-
person Melissa McLemore. Rape at
Davidson is “enough of a problem for us

to be concerned,” McLemore said.
“Recently I have understood it is a
problem,” said Assistant Dean of Admis-
sions and Students Paula Miller. “There
have been some cases of rape on cam-
pus.”
McLemore began organizing the
nine-member committee this fall in con-
junction with Miller. She plans to hold a
series of rape forums, literature, and
dorm meetings in the next several weeks.
“We're not out to make accusations
or to fry anyone at all,”” McLemore said.
“We're here to help the campus deal with

the problem.”

Committee members include McLe-
- more, Miller, sophomore Chrissy Pyle,
juniors Robin Scheid and Victoria

The RAPE Committee: Robin Scheid, Victoria Isaacs, Missy Kuyken-

% ; % . ‘ pine

dall, Joyce Ruth, Melissa McLemore, and Anne Miano

Isaacs, senior Anne Miano, sociology
and anthropology Professor Robert Ruth
and his wife Joyce, and Missy Kuyken-
dall. According to McLemore, commit-
tee members have varied experience in
fields ranging from medical training to
rape counseling fo “good listening

”

peers.

McLemore worked in a trauma center
for five years, Miano has rape counseling
experience, and Kuykendall, Miller and
Joyce Ruth have had counseling training.
In addition, Joyce Ruth is a registered
nurse, and Scheid and McLemore are
EMTs.

“We're not pretending to be major

counselors,” McLemore said. “We don't
think we can give extensive therapy. We
want to be the link to people who can.”
Among the resources available for rape
victims in this area is the Rape Crisis
Center in Charlotte, which RAPE Com-
mittee members will visit tomorrow tor
sessions in handling rape cases.

The committee will also meet with
the Charlotte Assistant District Attorney
in charge of rape cases to discuss the
legal aspect of rape. “We have been
guided by professionals in Charlotte and
will continue to work under their au-
spices and training,” McLemore said.

“Though rape is generally considered
as being perpetrated by a stranger.”
McLemore said, “this is true in only 30
percent of rape cases.’ Though she said
legal distinctions are made between dif-
ferent kinds of rape, “in my mind if (a
victim) is not consciously and willingly
making the decision it is rape.”

In many dating situations “girls just
don't feel they have control,” McLemore

(continued on page 3)
