David Williams

The Davidson College Honor System is well-inten-

tioned; its presence at Davidson provides for a sense of trust.

among students and faculty: Moreover, because the honor
system works, students have privileges which they would
not otherwise have if they attended a school without an
honor system: open library stacks, easy access to computer
terminals, and absence of general theft, to name a few.

However, the present system contains one major flaw
which should be reevaluated.

The Davidson student is honor-bound to report an
Honor Code violation upon observing the violation taking
place; yet, when the trial conceming the violation takes
place, the name of the accuser is revealed to the accused.

These two Honor Council policies put the potential ac-
cuser in an awkward state. If a student sees a violation, he
has a choice of either reporting it or not reporting it. If the
student does not report the violation, he has committed an
honor council violation himself. If the student does report
the violation, the student faces the danger of malicious re-
taliation on the part of the accused whether the accused ac-
tually committed a violation or not.

The danger of malicious retaliation by the accused to-
wards the accuser has the potential to increase if the ac-
cused is found not guilty of a violation. After afl, the ac-
cuser has called into question the integrity of the accused
and has placed on him the humiliation of having to appear
before the Honor Council and facing possible expulsion.

With every right comes a responsibility. Similarly,
with every responsibility should come a right. If Davidson
students have the responsibility to report violations, then
students should have as well the right to confidentiality of
their names upon reporting a violation. This right to confi-
dentiality of identity would enable more students ta,repori
violations as they occur, rather than to face a possible honor
code violation themselves for not reporting the violation for
fear of malicious retaliation.

abcdef:

Opinions
eeded in Honor System

A Well-Paid Position
Contact Ann Roddey -6697

@ @,

jklmnop qrstuvwxyZ

ity

This confidentiality of identity would apply only to the
accused and not to the honor council itself. Court hearings
could be held in such a way that the accuser presents his
case and removes himself from the courtroom, whereupon

. the accused presents his defense. If cross-examining of the
accuser is necessary, this could be done in the absence of
‘It has been pointed out to me that in most Western
democracies, a person who accuses someone else of a
crime does not have the right to confidentiality of identity.

Farm Aid

The Davidsonian

un Sepre er 27 1

However, in most Western democracies, it is also not a
crime not to report a crime to authorities.

At Davidson, if a student must report an honor code
violation in order to avoid committing one himself, he
should have the right to confidentiality of his identity.

Williams is a junior political science major from Memphis,
TN,

Better Than Nothing

Tim Brown

Willie Nelson (about whom one might find something
entertaining) was the impetus behind last Sunday’s Farm
Aid concert, a big concert, which was expected to raise $50
million.

Some trivia: (1)Willie Nelson conceptualized Farm Aid
after he saw Bob Dylan perform at Live Aid, when he men-
tioned it would be nice if some of the money were to go to
our farmers.

(2)Live Aid and Farm Aid owe their existence to the
concert Bangladesh Aid, which raised $10 million for that.
nation’s flood victims in 1971, stirring up thereby the com-
municable, uncommon cold: namely, the iniative to act.

The money raised will be divided into four categories.
(1)Legal aid, to help farmers in trouble protect themselves;
states Willie, “We're looking into setting up a network of
lawyers to help farmers find out if their rights are being vio-
lat

(2)Adjustment aid for farm people who need food,
housing help with relocation, retraining, advice, psychia-

tric help.

(3)Program aid, now in development and aimed at in-
creasing public awareness of their plight.

(4)Direct aid to the farmers themselves. Concerning
myself with the fourth category, I pessimistically suggest
close to nonexistent efficiancy. Money raised and directed
to this category shall not be much, in comparison to $200
billion worth of farm debts, in comparison, say, to the fed-
eral government's giving of $40 biltion in aid to farmers,
which has not saved then as yet. But —- yes — I descent to
the point: money directed to this category will, or should I
say, Shall.do something.

I allow Ronnie Pugh of the Country Association in
Nashville to conclude my article. Go ahead Ron. “They
have always sung about farmers and their problems. Now, |
find it refreshing they're doing something about it." And is
not something, whatever its measure, better than nothing?
“Sure is — Tim.”

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill N.C. and is opinions
editor of The Davidsonian. .

‘e you our type?
The Davidsonian Needs Typesetters

Guaranteed Hours
