8

Wednesday, April 10, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

— Who's On First ?

By ANDY BARRON

Spring means a lot of different things
to a lot of different people. Warm wea-
ther, the school year’s approaching end,
trips to the beach, etc. To me, spring
means one thing and one thing only;
baseball! Opening day is April 8, which
gives me just enough time to make my
predictions.

For those of you who don’t know, I
have a one-year streak of correctly pre-
dicting the World Series champion at the
beginning of the season. I must admit I
was lucky in correctly picking Detroit
last year. I picked Detroit because they
acquired relief pitchers Willie Hernandez
and Doug Bair. Little did I know Detroit
would go 35 - 5 at the beginning of the
season and cruise to an easy pennant.
Anyway, I'll go for two in a row.

American League East

This division continues to reign as
baseball’s best. Any of the top five teams
in this division would probably win the
other three divisions if suddenly transfer-
red before opening day. Those five teams
are Toronto, Detroit, Baltimore, New
York, and Boston. Only one can win,
however, and the other four and their fans
will spend the play-offs grumbling about
how tough the AL East is.

The Toronto Blue Jays will win this
division, becoming the first Canadian
team to go to the play-offs. The Blue Jays
had a great year last season only to be
obscured by the torrid Tigers. By adding
relief star Bill Caudill, the Blue Jays now
have the bullpen ace they needed so badly
last year. Add superstar starter Dave
Steib and the bats of Alfredo Griffin,
Damaso Garcia, and Willie Upshaw and
it should mean a pennant for Toronto.

All you folks who jumped on the
Tiger bandwagon last season are simply
out of luck this year. Winning a cham-
pionship takes a certain amount of luck.
Getting that luck two years in a row just
doesn’t happen (ask the Georgetown bas-
ketball team). Tiger fans shouldn’t fear a
debacle like former champ Milwaukee
suffered. Still second place won’t be

pleasant after last year’s championship.

Baltimore has added Fred Lynn and
New York acquired Ricky Henderson
over the off season. To some, these
superstars will take one of these teams to
the division title. In Baltimore’s case, a
championship is possible. The Orioles
will be Toronto’s stiffest competition this
season. However, the Orioles are too old
to win. New York, and Boston for that
matter, don’t have enough pitching to
win.

Order of finish: 1) Toronto, 2) Balti-
more, 3) Detroit, 4) New York, 5) Bos-
ton, 6) Cleveland, 7) Milwaukee.

American League West

The tremendous strength of the AL
East has made the AL West the butt of
comments such as the “AL Rest.” Last
year, Kansas City won the division with
an 8-7 record. This division will not chal-
lenge the East’s dominance of the league
this season, but should produce a cham-
pion with a respectable record. -

Kansas City will repeat as division
champion because this year’s team is an
improved version of last year. I still can’t
believe the Royals made the play-offs last
season. KC stars George Brett and Willie
Wilson both missed considerable chunks
of the year and yet the team held on. Brett
and Wilson are ready to play and sidearm
reliever Dan Quisenberry is prepared to
save 40-plus games yet again.

Minnesota could ruin Kansas City’s
attempt to repeat as division champion.
The Twins have slugger Ken Hrbek to hit
the long ball in Minnesota’s “Homer
Dome.” Pitcher Frank Viola improves
every year and should have a great season
in 1985: I don’t think the Twins are going
to improve on their efforts of last year,
however, and will come in second.

As for the rest of the division,
Chicago lost starter LaMarr Hoyt, Oak-
land lost Henderson (to New York),
California lost Lynn (to Baltimore), and
Texas and Seattle still don’t have any-
body important to lose. These five teams
make the AL West the lousy division that
it is. Merry Christmas Kansas City!

Order of finish: 1) Kansas City, 2) Min-
nesota, 3) Who Cares!
National League East

Last year was the year of the Cubs.
The long time cellar-dwellers of the divi-
sion rose to the top of the standings to the
delight of Harry Curry, Wrigley Field’s
bleacher bums, and all true believers in
the national pasttime. The Cubs were not
a fluke; Chicago still has a strong team.
MVP Ryne Sandberg and Cy Young win-
ner Rick Sutcliffe remain in Cub uni-
forms. With last year’s division champs
intact, a repeat of the division champion-
ship, a league championship, and World
Series victory seem in order to complete
the miracle that stalled under the lights of
San Diego last October.

Unfortunately for the Cubs, this is the
year of the Mets. The Mets added all-star
catcher Gary Carter to an already strong
roster and are now prepared to win the di-
vision. Budding superstars Darryl Straw-
berry and Dwight Gooden, along with
Keith Hemandez, Jessie Orosco, and
Doug Sisk, make the Mets the team to
beat. In fact, the Mets are good enough to
win without Sidd Finch!

The Cubs will lose simply because
most of their players will not be able to
equal their performances of last year. For
example, Sutcliffe won’t go 16-1 again
this year. Sorry Harry Carry, your party
was last year. ;

As for the rest of the division,
Philadelphia has the best chance of win-
ning because they’re the team I don’t
want to win. As one writer said, Montreal
could win because no one is picking them
to win this year. Pittsburgh and St. Louis
can’t win.

Order of finish: 1) New York, 2)
Philadelphia, 3) Chicago, 4) St. Louis, 5)
Pittsburgh, 6) Montreal.

National League West

After being wrong about Georgia
Tech Basketball two weeks ago, I’m sure
Atlanta Braves fans are anxious to see
what I'll say about their team. The
Braves definitely have a talented team.
Reliever Bruce Sutter makes Atlanta’s

Baseball Makes Its Official Opening For The 1985 Season

bullpen complete. Outfielder Dale Mur-
phy is simply one of baseball’s top five
players. Yet any dreams Braves’ fans
have of Bob Horner playing even most,
much less all, of the season or of Brad
Komminsk hitting like Mickey Mantle
will not come true. In addition, the
Braves’ starting pitching is too weak to
win the division this season.

San Diego won the division last year
and will win again because the Padres
have not remained idle over the off-sea-
son. Acquiring Hoyt (from the Chicago
White Sox) will aid the Padres less than
perfect starting pitching. The Padres hit-
ting wasn’t stunning last year; but the
Padres won anyway. Better pitching, bet-
ter hitting means a better San Diego ball
team.

I heard a rumor that the Dodgers were
going to get Philadelphia third baseman
Mike Schmidt. I’d be surprised if the
Phillies would give Schmidt up. If they
did, the Dodgers would be able to move
Pedro Euerrero to the outfield and cut
down considerably on their errors.
Schmidt’s bat would also aid LA’s impo-
tent hitting. But without Schmidt the
Dodgers won’t be much of a threat.

Houston will win the division if they
get off to a good start. For the second half
of last season the Astros were baseball’s
hottest team. Without a fast start, the As-
tros will once again come up short.

The only thing exciting about
Cinncinati will be whether or not Pete
Rose can break Ty Cobb’s career record.
There’s nothing exciting about San Fran-
cisco.

Order of finish: 1) San Diego, 2) Atlanta,
3) Houston, 4) LA, 5) Cinncinati, 6) San
Francisco.

The play-offs will be short despite the
extension of the league championship
from a best-of-five to a best-of-seven
series. Toronto will beat Kansas City
either 3-1 or 4-1. The New York Mets
wouldn’t fold like the Cubs did last year
and will beat San Diego by the same mar-
gin. As for the World Series: Toronto 4-
2.

Track Team Heads For
NAIA. District Meet

By PERRY MATHEWES

For the past two weeks, the Davidson
track team has been busy. On March 30
they hosted four teams and took second
place, behind Lynchburg College. On April
5 and 6 Davidson held the 26th Annual
Davidson Relays. The men’s team took
’ sixth place from a field of fifteen, while the
women secured third place out of the seven
participating teams.

Both the men and women performed
well in the March 30th meet, taking first
place in several events. Sophomore Emil
Cekada and senior John Ponder were first in
the 1500- and 400-meter runs respectively.
Lead by sophomore Greg Foreman, David-
son swept the first three places in the 800
meter run and won the 1600- meter relay.

In the field events, senior Jeff Carter
easily won the high jump. Senior Jay Braun
garnered first place in the pole vault, while
junior Lou Krempel won the discus.

Junior Karen Hendrix and freshmen
Margie Oliver lead the women’s team to an
equally respectable performance. Hendrix
won the high jump and the team got second

and/or third in the 100-, 200- and 400-meter
runs and the 400-meter relay. Also,
freshmen Janet Bitter got second in the
javelin and sophomore Heather McKee
took second in the shot put.

At the Davidson Relays, the men’s team
looked good in field events. Carter again
won the high jump with ease. Braun
finished second in the pole vault while
sophomore Marcus Allen finished 4th in the
shot put. Krempel took sixth place in the
discus.

In the track events, Davidson ran well in
the 440- and 2- mile relays, taking third and
fifth place respectively.

The women’s team finished first in
three events. McKee won the shot put while
the team of Oliver, senior Susie Myers,
senior Catherine Crosland, Hendrix won
both the 880-meter and the mile relays.
Oliver also finished third in the 100-meter
dash.

The track team will spend this weekend
at Pembroke competing in the NAIA dis-
trict meet.

And Muffy & Spike talked and dabbied, sippin’
imported drinks... thinking of the great music
and the good times to be had in the @@@ ROOM.
And they knew they'd better have fun, ‘cause
the laws-are-a-changin ....... And hey! Muff‘ll be
graduatin’soon!! Having answered life's major
questions on a warm spring evening, they
agreed that Bruce Springsteen had to be the
quintessential American working man and left
| quietly, hand in hand.

ec

Come to the COLLEGE UNION
this spring and enjoy the 900 Room

