Opinions

‘Top 40s Communicate Serious Message

Craig Detweiler

Hearing ‘‘We are the World” on the radio for the one zil-
lionth time the other day, I considered the rather weighty
questions and messages that a few artists are daring to ask
within the usually stable confines of radio. After the mind-
less “more, more, more” and doing “the hustle” during the
disco era, radio tunes seemed to lose their ability to com-
municate significant facts or feelings. Several current
musicians have rediscovered the opportunity to raise issues
and communicate truths throughout the medium of popular
music.

Consider the substantial impact of the two songs geared
toward fundraising for the hungry in Africa. “Do They
Know it’s Christmas?” and “We Are The World” may not
address the causes of the hunger problem, but they do an
admirable job of dramatizing the need. Band Aid’s in-
genius tie-in of Christmas, giving, and the starving Ethio-
pians opened hearts and wallets. The USA equivalent also
has experienced remarkable success and sales. People are
being fed because of a stupid little pop song. Amazing!

While the world hunger songs are aimed toward fun-
draising rather than artistry, some musicians like Bruce
Springsteen construct a portrait of the problems they envi-
sion with their environment. While we heard “Born in the
USA’’’s repetitive chorus over and over, Springsteen also

managed to slip in a heavy statement about the plight of
Vietnam Vets.

Got in a little hometown jam so they put a rifle in my
hand / Sent me off to a foreign land to go and kill the yel-
low man/Come back home to the refinery / Hiring man
says “son if it was up to me” / Went down to see my
V.A. man/ He said “son don’t you understand” / Born in
the USA
The chorus does not proclaim America as the land of

freedom and opportunity, but short memories and broken
promises. Consider ‘“Downbound Train” from the “Born in
the USA” album:

I had a job, I had a girl / | had something mister in
this world /I got laid off down at the lumber yard /—Our
love went bad, times got hard / Now I work down at the
carwash, where all it ever does is rain / Don’t you feel
like you’re a rider on a downbound train
Springsteen develops working class characters who

speak directly to Ronald Reagan’s America, the conserva-
tive mood, and the problems of unemployment.

Ireland’s U2 tackles global issues of war and peace.
From their direct contact with war-torn Northern Ireland
arose the call to fight for peace in “Sunday, Bloody Sun-

day.” Songwriters Bono Vox and Dave “The Edge” Evans
display a sharp, insightful perspective on our world. They
portray their moral dilemma quite vividly:

I can’t believe the news today / I can’t close my eyes
and make it go away / Broken bottles under children’s
feet, / Bodies strewn across a dead end street, / But I
won't heed the battle call, / It puts my back up, puts my
back up against he wall / Sunday, bloody Sunday.

U2 does not remain content with expressing a personal
problem, but addresses their listeners with a call to change.

And the battle’s just begun, / There’s many lost, but
tell me who has won? / The trenches dug within our
hearts / And mother’s children, brothers, sisters torn
apart / And it’s true we are immune / When fact is fiction
and T.V. is reality / And today the millions cry, / We eat
and drink while tomorrow they die / The real battle’s just
begun / To claim the victory Jesus won, / On a Sunday
bloody Sunday.

U2 makes a militant cry for peace, justice, and freedom
in the world. While U2 and Springsteen cover the social is-
sues, the Police address a worldwide spiritual vacuum on
“Synchronicity.” Check out Sting’s desperate lyrics to
“King of Pain.”

There’s a king on a throne with his eyes torn out /
There’s a blind man looking for a shadow of doubt /
There a rich man sleeping on a golden bed / There’s a
skeleton choking on a crust of bread / There’s a little
black spot on the sun today / It’s the same old thing as
yesterday / That’s my soul up there.

And the depressing chorus:

I have stood here before inside the pouring rain / With
the world turning circles running round my brain/I guess I
always thought that you could end this reign / But it’s my
destiny to be the king of pain.

The Police song might be heavy stuff for the light Top
40 tone of radio. From the same album, Sting makes a mov-
ing appeal to a higher authority for help from ““O My God.”

Everyone I know is lonely / and God’s so far away /
And my heart belongs to no one / So now sometimes I
pray / Please take the space between us / And fill it up
some way.

Considering the massive following and broad record
sales that the Police can claim, I am amazed by the depth of
their questioning. They confront personal emptiness and
doubts directly, committing their questions to vinyl.

Even Foreigner, once known for heartless power
chords and howling vocals, have dared to express their dis-
satisfaction of popular radio. One of the best-selling singles
of the year, “I Wanna Know What Love Is,” features the
cry of a lost and loney man.

In my life there’s been heartache and pain / I don’t
know if I can face it again / Can’t stop now I’ ve traveled

so far / To change this lonely life / I wanna know whai

love is / I want you to show me I wanna feel what love is /

I know you can show me. /

Whether viewed as seduction or prayer, the song con-
veys the deep need for love, acceptance, and companion-
ship that all people experience. Foreigner boils an essential
human need down to three intense musical minutes.

Another number one song highlights the search for love
or meaning that drives men and women. Annie Lennox of
the Eurythmics proclaims:

Sweet dreams are made of this / Who am I to disag-
ree? / I travel the world and the seven seas / Everybody's
looking for something.

Tina Turner’s current single conveys a similar senti-
ment of dissatisfaction with life and love. Mark Knopler of
Dire Straits composed “Private Dancer” as a dark vision of
a world without love. For example:

Well the men come in these places / And the men are
all the same / You don’t look at their faces / And you
don’t ask their name / You don’t thnk of them as human /
You don’t think of them at all / You keep your mind on
the money / Keeping your eyes on the wall.

Potential love and meaning gets reduced to a sheer
economic endeavor. However, the singer expresses dreams
beyond her current situation.

I want to make a million dollars / I want to live out by
the sea / Have a husband and some children / Yeah |
guess I want a family / But I’m your private dancer / A
dancer for money / I'll do what you want me to do/ I’m
your private dancer / A dancer for money / And any old
music will do.

Tina Turner conveys the hope that we all share for our
lives to be meaningful, satisfying, and significant. Sadly,
the song implies that the private dancer, and maybe we, are
unable to escape the situation on our own.

Perhaps the Police best summarized the situation and
our options on their “Ghost in the Machine” album. They
called upon their listerners to take a “Secret Journey.”

You will see light in the darkness / You will make
some sense of this / When you’ ve made your secret jour-
ney / You will find this love you miss.

Whether in social concerns for the poor, the oppressed,
and the unemployed or personal concerns like spiritual ban-
kruptcy and unfound love, popular Top 40 radio has dared
lately to raise some serious questions. I hope today’s hits
compel you to wonder about the needs of others and the
needs of yourself. Perhaps you can make that secret jour-
ney.

Detweiler is a senior english major from Charlotte, NC.

Raising Age Will Not Solve Problem

Aaron Levine

Many states are considering or have already passed leg-
islation 1aising the legal drinking age to 21. In response to
the epidemic of alcohol abuse among certain of America’s
youth and the increasing toll of alcohol-related accidents on
our highways, the government is giving the states a choice
of either raising their drinking age to 21 by September 1986
or lose all of their federal highway funds. North Carolina is
one of a number of states which has already decided to raise
the age. On September 1986, North Carolina will have a
uniform age for the purchase of all alcoholic beverages, in-
cluding beer, of course.

Since the drive for raising the drinking age began in ear-
nest, with some states raising it from 18 to 19 and then to
21, Americans have debated the arguments, pro and con, of
raising. the age. The old argument that one can fight at 18
and not be able to drink is getting old. Opponents of raising
the drinking age need new arguments to back themselves
up.

P One of the arguments for raising the age is the opinion
that abuse of alcohol and alcohol-related traffic accidents
are rampant among college-age youth. It is a problem, |
admit, however, college-age youth, the ones who will be
most affected, are a tiny segment of the population. (Most
high-school age youth are under 18 anyway.)

In terms of sheer volume, rampant abuse is greater in
the older stages of life. A decline in alcohol abuse among
college-age youth will not change much. Of course, the
adult age brackets take in a wider swath of population any-
way. Attempting to address the alcohol problem in regards
to them will be more beneficial for America then to cut off
the great majority of us from drinking.

When will our politeness ever learn. A problem just
does not go away by making it illegal. When the legal age
was 18 in my state, Virginia, for example, many of my old

If there is time for the state legisla-
ture to reverse its decision then I be-
lieve we can lobby for reversal

high-school friends were drinking during their early under-
classmen years of high school. Do our elected officials re-
ally think we will not drink, now that the age will be 21
soon? The legal age limit for beer is nearly a farce!

How so? First, we must ask why alcohol is such a big
thing for high schoolers and just a normal thing for college
students? It is because the idea of illegality so fascinates
America’s youth. When we are too young to do it, doing it
makes us feel more mature. It is the “adult” thing to do,

since only “adults” can do it. Taking a beer is a rite of pas-
sage in our society. Once we are adults, beer imparts noth-
ing more on us, beer is simply what we drink.

Also, doing an illegal act and not being caught is a thrill
for many of our younger generation. For college students
this is not the case. Once the state raises the age, the thrill of
illegality will return to our college campuses.

I want to make it clear that I do not condone breaking
the law. Should we all go out on September 1986 and break
the law? This is an individual choice. However, if there is
time for the state legislature to reverse its decision then I be-
lieve we can lobby for a reversal. Before we accept this new
law passively if it should come to this, think of how utterly
foolish raising the age would be: 18 “did not work,” 19 “did
not work,” and now its 21. What if 21 does not work? Will
the age be raised to 25, to 30, to 60 to prohibition! Of
course we know that the 1920s prohibition was an utter fail-
ure. If a general prohibtion is “nuts,” then what of a prohib-
ition only against our youth under: 21? The latter seems
more ridiculous because it only wants to “solve” the prob-
lem with one small segment, not with everybody.

Why is an administration who says it wants the govern-
ment off the backs of the people and the states making such
a brazen intrusion on both with a most pathetic tactic, with-
holding federal highway funds. What madness! Yet it does
not have to be this way.

Levine is a freshman from Roanoke, Va.
